时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我认为数据可以让我们更人性化。我们搜集和创造着各种关于我们如何生活的数据这使得我们能够讲述一些精彩的故事。最近，一位聪明的媒体学家在微博上说，“19世纪是小说定义了文化，20世纪是电影定义了文化而21世纪的文化将由界面来决定。”我相信这将成真。我们的生活正被数据驱动着，所以数据的演示是一个机会让我们可以制作令人惊喜的界面来生动地讲述故事。现在我将向你演示几个方案这些都是我过去几年里所做的反映我们的生活和我们的系统。
en:So I think data can actually make us more human.We&#39;re collecting and creating all kinds of data about how we&#39;re living our lives,and it&#39;s enabling us to tell some amazing stories.Recently, a wise media theorist Tweeted,&quot;The 19th century culture was defined by the novel,the 20th century culture was defined by the cinema,and the culture of the 21st centurywill be defined by the interface.&quot;And I believe this is going to prove true.Our lives are being driven by data,and the presentation of that data is an opportunityfor us to make some amazing interfaces that tell great stories.So I&#39;m going to show you a few of the projectsthat I&#39;ve been working on over the last couple yearsthat reflect on our lives and our systems.
时间： 0:45
zh-cn:这个方案叫做 “飞行模式”。你现在看到的是24小时内飞越北美的空中交通。正如你所看到的，一切都开始变黑，人们开始入睡。接着，你看西海岸有飞机飞过，红眼航班向东海岸飞行。然后是东海岸的人们开始醒来，紧接着是欧洲的航班从右上角飞进来。大家正从东海岸飞往西海岸。看旧金山和洛杉矶开始飞到左下角的夏威夷。
en:This is a project called Flight Patterns.What you&#39;re looking at is airplane trafficover North America for a 24-hour period.As you see, everything starts to fade to black,and you see people going to sleep.Followed by that, you see on the West coastplanes moving across, the red-eye flights to the East coast.And you&#39;ll see everybody waking up on the East coast,followed by European flights coming in the upper right-hand corner.Everybody&#39;s moving from the East coast to the West coast.You see San Francisco and Los Angelesstart to make their journeys down to Hawaii in the lower left-hand corner.
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:我想大约有14万架飞机随时被联邦政府监控，但如果去观察这个系统的起伏，又是另外一回事。这是同一组数据被延时观察，而且我还用颜色把它们区分开，因此你可以看到我们上空的飞机们是各有不同的。我在制作的时候，把它们放到了谷歌地图上这能使你放大并查看每架飞机和这里所进行的模式。这里我们看到的白色代表低海拔，蓝色代表更高一点的海拔。你可以将镜头推进。看一下亚特兰大。你可以看到这是一个主要的运输航空港，有各种各样的活动。你也可以切换海拔高度查看型号和生产商。看，又是多样性。你可以用滚动条上下查看一些不同的机场和它们不同的模式。滚动条上拉是东海岸。你可以看到纽约这里有一些混乱空中交通管制人员必须与那些相邻的航空港来协调。
en:I think it&#39;s one thing to say there&#39;s 140,000 planesbeing monitored by the federal government at any one time,and it&#39;s another thing to see that system as it ebbs and flows.This is a time-lapse image of that exact same data,but I&#39;ve color-coded it by type,so you can see the diversity of aircraft that are in the skies above us.And I started making these, and I put them into Google Mapsand allow you to zoom in and see individual airportsand the patterns that are occurring there.So here we can see the white represents low altitudes,and the blue are higher altitudes.And you can zoom in. This is taking a look at Atlanta.You can see this is a major shipping airport,and there&#39;s all kinds of activity there.You can also toggle between altitudefor model and manufacturer.See again, the diversity.And you can scroll around and seesome of the different airports and the different patterns that they have.This is scrolling up the East coast.You can see some of the chaos that&#39;s happening in New Yorkwith the air traffic controllershaving to deal with all those major airports next to each other.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:我们现在很快地把镜头缩放回来，再来看一下在右下角的美国－佛罗里达州。飞越到西海岸，你看旧金山和洛杉矶－巨大的大流量区域在内华达州和亚利桑那州之间穿梭往来。这是我们所处的洛杉矶，和下方的长滩。开始看一下周边，因为你能选择你想调出来的数据资料。这是对比起飞和降落的航班。正如你所看到，随着时间推移，机场的变化。你看在屏幕下方，控制模式在变化。你可以看到，最终机场的方向翻转。
en:So zooming back out real quick,we see, again, the U.S. — you get Florida down in the right-hand corner.Moving across to the West coast,you see San Francisco and Los Angeles —big low-traffic zonesacross Nevada and Arizona.And that&#39;s us down there in L.A. and Long Beach on the bottom.I started taking a look as well at different perimeters,because you can choose what you want to pull out from the data.This is looking at ascending versus descending flights.And you can see, over time, the ways the airports change.You see the holding patterns that start to developin the bottom of the screen.And you can see, eventually the airport actually flips directions.
时间： 2:49
zh-cn:这是我接过的另一个项目，是与麻省理工的感应城市实验室（Seanseable City Lab)合作.这是可视化国际通讯。这是纽约同其他国际城市的通讯数据。我们在纽约的现代艺术博物馆里把这个架设成一个活球体为了展览弹性思维的设计。它即时接收新数据，有24小时时差的偏移，所以你可以看到这些关系变化和一些来源于AT&amp;T数据的人口统计信息。这是另外一个和感应城市实验室合作的案子CurrentCity.org。它可视化在阿姆斯特丹发出的所有手机短信。你看到的是每天人们从不同城市发送手机短信频繁度的上下变化，直到接近元旦，大家都在说，“新年快乐！”
en:So this is another project that I worked on with the Sensible Cities Lab at MIT.This is visualizing international communications.So it&#39;s how New York communicateswith other international cities.And we set this up as a live globe in the Museum of Modern Art in New Yorkfor the Design the Elastic Mind exhibition.And it had a live feed with a 24-hour offset,so you could see the changing relationshipand some demographic infocoming through AT&amp;T&#39;s data and revealing itself.This is another project I worked on with Sensible Cities Laband CurrentCity.org.And it&#39;s visualizing SMS messages being sent in the city of Amsterdam.So you&#39;re seeing the daily ebb and flowof people sending SMS messages from different parts of the city,until we approach New Year&#39;s Eve, where everybody says, &quot;Happy New Year!&quot;
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:这是一个互动的工具你可以四处移动去看城市的不同区域。这是统计另外一个节日。所谓的“女王日”。再一次的，你可以看到每天人们从城市不同角落发送手机短信的变化然后你可以看到人们开始聚集在城市中心在前一天晚上，一起庆祝女王日，就在这里。然后你可以看到人们第二天也在庆祝。你可以在任何地方暂停，或者倒退，或者快进，可以查看不同阶段。
en:So this is an interactive toolthat you can move around and see different parts of the city.This is looking at another event. This is called Queen&#39;s Day.So again, you get this daily ebb and flowof people sending SMS messages from different parts of the city.And then you&#39;re going to see people start to gather in the center of the cityto celebrate the night before,which happens right here.And then you can see people celebrating the next day.And you can pause it and step back and forth and see different phases.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:现在来看看一个完全不同的东西。有的人也许认识这个。这是沃尔夫冈·冯·肯佩伦发明的土耳其行棋傀儡。正是这个惊人的机器人下棋下得非常好，除了：它根本不是一个机器人。实际上是一个没有双腿的人坐在柜子里面操纵这个下棋傀儡。这给亚马逊网站的一种网络服务提供了灵感为纪念那个傀儡，这种网络服务被称为“土耳其机器人”。原理是基于有一些事情对于人们来讲很简单，但对于电脑来说就很困难。所以他们创立了这个网络服务，为了，“任何编程人员都可以编写软件并且可以利用成百上千的智力资源。”我古怪的一方面认为，“哇，太神奇了。我可以利用成百上千的智力资源。”但我古怪的另一方面会认为，“太糟糕了。这完全是疯狂。这对未来的人类会有怎样的影响，我们都将被模式化？”我可能有点太极端。但是当我们对于所做的工作，前因后果及其背景不了解的时候，我们只是做着份内的这点苦工，这又意味着什么？
en:So now on to something completely different.Some of you may recognize this.This is Baron Wolfgang von Kempelen&#39;s mechanical chess playing machine.And it&#39;s this amazing robot that plays chess extremely well,except for one thing: it&#39;s not a robot at all.There&#39;s actually a legless man that sits in that boxand controls this chess player.This was the inspiration for a web service by Amazoncalled the Mechanical Turk — named after this guy.And it&#39;s based on the premise that there are certain thingsthat are easy for people, but really difficult for computers.So they made this web service and said,&quot;Any programmer can write a piece of softwareand tap into the minds of thousands of people.&quot;The nerdy side of me thought, &quot;Wow, this is amazing.I can tap into thousands of people&#39;s minds.&quot;And the other nerdy side of me thought,&quot;This is horrible. This is completely bizarre.What does this mean for the future of mankind,where we&#39;re all plugged into this borg?&quot;I was probably being a little extreme.But what does this mean when we have no context for what it is that we&#39;re working on,and we&#39;re just doing these little labors?
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:所以我设计了这个制图工具。我请人们画一只面向左边的羊。我说，“为此我支付你2美分。”然后我开始收集羊。我收集了很多不同的羊。很多很多。我把我收集的一万只羊，放到一个叫做TheSheepMarket.com（羊市场）的网页上在这里你实际上可以购买20只羊的画图。你不可以逐一挑选，但是作为商品，你可以买一版贴纸（有20只羊）。移动鼠标，你可以看到每只羊的放大效果和绘图过程，这个巨大的机械过程背后的人性化。我觉得有意思的是观看在这背后人们的创作过程－或多或少都有点同感，这个创造的过程，是从无到有。比起大量的工业化生产手工制造要有意思得多。我惊叹于人们的贡献。
en:So I created this drawing tool.I asked people to draw a sheep facing to the left.And I said, &quot;I&#39;ll pay you two cents for your contribution.&quot;And I started collecting sheep.And I collected a lot, a lot of different sheep.Lots of sheep.I took the first 10,000 sheep that I collected,and I put them on a website called TheSheepMarket.comwhere you can actually buy collections of 20 sheep.You can&#39;t pick individual sheep,but you can buy a single plate block of stamps as a commodity.And juxtaposed against this grid,you see actually, by rolling over each individual one,the humanity behind this hugely mechanical process.I think there&#39;s something really interestingto watching people as they go through this creative toil —something we can all relate to,this creative process of trying to come up with something from nothing.I think it was really interesting to juxtapose this humanityversus this massive distributed grid.Kind of amazing what some people did.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:从这个项目中有几组数据。大概每小时收集11只羊，也就是每小时的工资是69美分。有662只羊被拒因为它们没有达到羊的标准，所以被剔除了。（笑声）绘画所用的时间从4秒到46分钟不等。也就是说，人们有不同的动机和投入。7599个人参与了这个项目，或者说7599个独立IP地址－参与的人数大概就是这个。7599人中只有一个这样问了。 （为什么，为什么你在做这个？）（笑声）对此，我非常讶异。我期待人们会问，“为什么我画羊？”我认为这是一个很合理的问题。
en:So here&#39;s a few statistics from the project.Approximate collection rate of 11 sheep per hour,which would make a working wage of 69 cents per hour.There were 662 rejected sheepthat didn&#39;t meet &quot;sheep-like&quot; criteria and were thrown out of the flock.(Laughter)The amount of time spent drawing ranged from four seconds to 46 minutes.That gives you an idea of the different types of motivations and dedication.And there were 7,599 people that contributed to the project,or were unique IP addresses —so about how many people contributed.But only one of them out of the 7,599 said this.(Laughter)Which I was pretty surprised by.I expected people to be wondering, &quot;Why did I draw a sheep?&quot;And I think it&#39;s a pretty valid question.
时间： 6:17
zh-cn:我选择羊的原因有很多。羊是第一个用机械加工出的副产品饲养出来的动物，第一个为了生产性质而被选择性繁殖的，第一个被克隆的动物。显然，我们认为羊是追随者。《小王子》里提到小王子要求飞行员画一只羊。他画了一只又一只羊。小王子只有在飞行员画了一个盒子后才感到满足。他还说，“这不是让你科学地定义一只羊。而是关于你对羊的认识，与众不同的看法。”我喜欢这观点。
en:And there&#39;s a lot of reasons why I chose sheep.Sheep were the first animalto be raised from mechanically processed byproducts,the first to be selectively bred for production traits,the first animal to be cloned.Obviously, we think of sheep as followers.And there&#39;s this reference to &quot;Le Petit Prince&quot;where the narrator asks the prince to draw a sheep.He draws sheep after sheep.The narrator&#39;s only appeased when he draws a box.And he says, &quot;It&#39;s not about a scientific rendering of a sheep.It&#39;s about your own interpretation and doing something different.&quot;And I like that.
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:这是一段短片，节选自查理·卓别林的“摩登时代”。它展示了查理·卓别林在工业革命期间怎么处理一些重大的变化。皮鞋制作者这一行当已经不存在了，但却需要人制作放置鞋子里的鞋垫。人们与工作之间的关系改变了很多。我觉得这个短片很有趣于是就想把它分隔成16份与一些绘画制作工具一起上传到“土耳其机器人”。这可以让你同时对比－左边是原画右边你看到的是被这16个人诠释的画他们都不知道他们在制作什么。
en:So this is a clip from Charlie Chaplin&#39;s &quot;Modern Times.&quot;It&#39;s showing Charlie Chaplin dealing with some of the major changesduring the Industrial Revolution.So there were no longer shoe makers,but now there are people slapping soles on people&#39;s shoes.And the whole idea of one&#39;s relationship to their work changed a lot.So I thought this was an interesting clipto divide into 16 piecesand feed into the Mechanical Turk with a drawing tool.This basically allowed — what you see on the left side is the original frame,and on the right side you see that frameas interpreted by 16 peoplewho have no idea what it is they&#39;re doing.
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:这正是整个项目的创意我和朋友Takashi Kawashima一起合作。我们打算利用“土耳其机器人”（网络服务）来赚钱。我们把一张100美元的纸币，等分成1万份，上传到“土耳其机器人”。我们征集人来画出他们所看到的画面。没有固定标准。人们可以画笑脸或者简笔人物画，然后再把所有人的作品集合起来组成一张新的100美元纸币。你看到的是大家的作品他们是按照要求做的。我们把这些百元钞票放到了TenThousandsCents.com的网页上，你可以浏览和细看每个人的创作。你也可以花一百美元的真钞来购买这张“假钞”所得款项将会被捐给“百元电脑计划”也叫做“每童一机”计划。这是一个展示多样化的作品。你看，有人制作了非常漂亮的点画效果图，比如说上面这个－花了很长时间来画写真版。其他人画简笔人物画或者笑脸。中间右手边你看这人写到，“一美分！！！真的？”就为这个赚一美分？
en:And this was the inspiration for a projectthat I worked on with my friend Takashi Kawashima.We decided to use the Mechanical Turk for exactly what it was meant for,which is making money.So we took a hundred dollar bill and divided it into 10,000 teeny pieces,and we fed those into the Mechanical Turk.We asked people to draw what it was that they saw.But here there was no sheep-like criteria.People, if they drew a stick figure or a smiley face,it actually made it into the bill.So what you see is actually a representation of how well people didwhat it was they were asked to do.So we took these hundred dollar bills,and we put them on a website called TenThousandsCents.com,where you can browse through and see all the individual contributions.And you can also trade real hundred-dollar bills for fake hundred-dollar billsand make a donation to the Hundred Dollar Laptop Project,which is now known as One Laptop Per Child.This is again showing all the different contributions.You see some people did beautiful stipple renderings,like this one on top —spent a long time making realistic versions.And other people would draw stick figures or smiley faces.Here on the right-hand side in the middleyou see this one guy writing, &quot;$0.01!!! Really?&quot;That&#39;s all I&#39;m getting paid for this?
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:我最后要讲的土耳其机器人项目叫做“2000人的自行车”。我和朋友丹尼尔·马赛合作。你可能认识这两个人。这是60年代贝尔实验室的麦克斯·马休斯和约翰·凯利他们共同创作了这首歌“黛西·贝尔（雏菊）”世界上第一首电脑合成语音录制的歌曲。你也许是从电影《2001：太空漫游》里面认识这首歌的。当智能机器人HAL将死时，他唱的就是这首“黛西·贝尔”让人联想到电脑变成人的时刻。于是我们人工合成了这首歌。这是那首歌。我们分解了这首歌里的每个音符以及每个音素，把它们独立出来。
en:So the last Mechanical Turk project I&#39;m going to talk to you aboutis called Bicycle Built for 2000.This is a collaboration with my friend Daniel Massey.You may recognize these two guys.This is Max Mathews and John Kelly from Bell Labs in the &#39;60s,where they created the song &quot;Daisy Bell,&quot;which was the world&#39;s first singing computer.You may recognize it from &quot;2001: A Space Odyssey.&quot;When HAL&#39;s dying at the end of the film he starts singing this song,as a reference to when computers became human.So we resynthesized this song.This is what that sounded like.We broke down all the individual notesin the singing as well as the phonemes in the singing.
时间： 8:51
zh-cn:黛西·贝尔：♫雏菊，雏菊⋯⋯♫
en:Daisy Bell: ♫ Daisy, Daisy ... ♫
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:考博林：我们把所有的独立出来的音符和音素，上传到“土耳其机器人”。你打开网页后看到的就是这样。输入你的号码先测试下你的话筒。你会收到一份简单的视频短片。（某一音素）然后你用你的嗓音去尽量创作。在你预览、确认你的作品后，即使不知道整个策划，你依然可以直接发送给“土耳其机器人”这是我们收集到的第一批成品。
en:Aaron Koblin: And we took all of those individual pieces,and we fed them into another Turk request.This is what it would look like if you went to the site.You type in your code,but you first test your mic.You&#39;d be fed a simple audio clip.(Honk)And then you&#39;d do your best to recreate that with your own voice.After previewing it and confirming it&#39;s what you submitted,you could submit it into the Mechanical Turk with no other context.And this is what we first got back from the very first set of submissions.
时间： 9:27
zh-cn:音乐：♫雏菊，雏菊♫♫给我你肯定的回答♫♫我处于半疯狂中♫♫全因为对你的爱♫♫没有时髦的婚礼♫♫我给不起四轮马车♫♫但是在双人自行车后座上♫♫你看上去会很甜蜜♫
en:Recording: ♫ Daisy, Daisy ♫♫ give me your answer do ♫♫ I&#39;m half crazy ♫♫ all for the love of you ♫♫ It can&#39;t be a stylish marriage ♫♫ I can&#39;t afford a carriage ♫♫ But you&#39;ll look sweet upon the seat ♫♫ of a bicycle built for two ♫
时间：10:05
zh-cn:考博林：于是詹姆士·苏洛维耶基有了这个集合众人智慧的想法，所谓的三个臭皮匠，赛过一个诸葛亮。我们想试试看这个应用到分布式合作的音乐制作上，当人们不知道他们在为什么工作时如果你访问网站BicycleBuiltforTwoThousand.com你可以听到所有声音合在一起的效果。对这音效，我很抱歉。
en:AK: So James Surowieki has this idea of the wisdom of crowds,that says that a whole bunch of people are smarter than any individual.We wanted to see how this applies to collaborative, distributed music making,where nobody has any idea what it is they&#39;re working on.So if you go to the BicycleBuiltforTwoThousand.comyou can actually hear what all this sounds like together.I&#39;m sorry for this.
时间：10:23
zh-cn:（噪音）
en:(Noise)
时间：10:28
zh-cn:合唱：♫雏菊，雏菊♫♫给我你肯定的回答♫♫我处于半疯狂中♫♫全是因为你的爱♫♫不需要新潮的婚礼♫♫我承担不了运费♫♫但是在双人自行车后座上♫♫你应该看上去很甜蜜♫
en:Chorus: ♫ Daisy, Daisy ♫♫ Give me your answer do ♫♫ I&#39;m half crazy ♫♫ all for the love of you ♫♫ It can&#39;t be a stylish marriage ♫♫ I can&#39;t afford a carriage ♫♫ But you&#39;d look sweet upon the seat ♫♫ of a bicycle built for two ♫
时间：11:06
zh-cn:考博林：先回神一会儿，我在加利福尼亚大学洛杉矶分校念研究生的时候，我同时在嵌入式网络传感中心工作。那是我在编写可视激光扫描仪。所以基本上是探测三维空间里的运动。洛杉矶的詹姆斯·弗罗斯特导演看到后说，“等一下。你的意思是我们可以不用任何影片视频来拍一支音乐录影带？”我们照做了。我们制作了我最喜爱的乐队－电台司令 的一首音乐录影带。我最喜欢的部分不仅是用激光来拍影片，而且是公开征集，我们在谷歌代码上发布了这个项目，在那里人们可以下载一堆数据和源代码用以制作他们心目中的版本。人们确实制作了一些令人称奇的东西。这是我最喜欢的其中两个：针版的汤姆·约克和乐高积木版的汤姆·约克。整个YouTube网站，有很多人建议了非常有趣的内容。最近，有人居然三维印刷出汤姆·约克的头像，这令人毛骨悚然，但也很酷。
en:AK: So stepping back for a quick second,when I was at UCLA going to grad school,I was also working at a place called the Center for Embedded Network Sensing.And I was writing software to visualize laser scanners.So basically motion through 3D space.And this was seen by a director in L.A. named James Frostwho said, &quot;Wait a minute.You mean we can shoot a music video without actually using any video?&quot;So we did exactly that.We made a music video for one of my favorite bands, Radiohead.And I think one of my favorite parts of this projectwas not just shooting a video with lasers,but we also open sourced it,and we made it released as a Google Code project,where people could download a bunch of the data and some source codeto build their own versions of it.And people were making some amazing things.This is actually two of my favorites:the pin-board Thom Yorke and a LEGO Thom Yorke.A whole YouTube channel of people submitting really interesting content.More recently, somebody even 3D-printed Thom Yorke&#39;s head,which is a little creepy, but pretty cool.
时间：11:56
zh-cn:每个人都制作惊人的东西同时也知道他们在做什么，我因此非常感兴趣把这些东西收集起来把所有人聚集起来一起来制作点什么东西我遇到了音乐录影带导演克里斯·缪克。我们开始寻找创意来制作一个集合的音乐录影带。我们知道我们需要找到对的人来支持和制作这个东西。所以我们把这个想法暂时搁置了几个月。结果他后来遇到了里克·鲁宾，他就是那个约翰·卡什最后一张专辑的制作人那张专辑叫《没有坟墓》歌词是“没有坟墓能容纳我的身体”。我们认为这是一个难得的机会去集合关于约翰·卡什的回忆和虚拟再现约翰·卡什。
en:So with everybody making so much amazing stuffand actually understanding what it was they were working on,I was really interested in trying to make a collaborative projectwhere people were working together to build something.And I met a music video director named Chris Milk.And we started bouncing around ideasto make a collaborative music video project.But we knew we really needed the right personto kind of rally behind and build something for.So we put the idea on the back burner for a few months.And he ended up talking to Rick Rubin,who was finishing up Johnny Cash&#39;s final albumcalled &quot;Ain&#39;t No Grave.&quot;The lyrics to the leading track are &quot;Ain&#39;t no grave can hold my body down.&quot;So we thought this was the perfectproject to build a collaborative memorialand a virtual resurrection for Johnny Cash.
时间：12:33
zh-cn:所以我与我的好朋友利差多·卡贝洛（也叫大麻先生）共同合作，他是比我更优秀的编程人员，他制作了这个出色的Flash绘画工具你知道的，动画就是一系列的图像。所以我们从约翰·卡什的档案影片中截了许多单幅图，每秒8帧图，我们分配给不同的人，每人画一张图然后再编入这个动态变化的音乐录影带里。这里我没有时间把整个作品播放给您，但是我想向您展示两个短片。一个是这个音乐录影带的开头。然后是一个短片关于那些已经投入到这个项目里来的制图者简短的讲评。
en:So I teamed up with my good friend Ricardo Cabello, also known as Mr. doob,who&#39;s a much better programmer than I am,and he made this amazing Flash drawing tool.As you know,an animation is a series of images.So what we did was cross-cut a bunch of archival footage of Johnny Cash,and at eight frames a second,we allowed individuals to draw a single framethat would get woven intothis dynamically changing music video.So I don&#39;t have time to play the entire thing for you,but I want to show you two short clips.One is the beginning of the music video.And that&#39;s going to be followed by a short clipof people who have already contributed to the projecttalking about it briefly.
时间：13:08
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：13:14
zh-cn:（视频）约翰·卡什：♫没有坟墓♫♫能容纳我的身体♫♫没有坟墓♫♫能容纳我的身体♫♫当我听到喇叭声♫♫我将要升出地面♫♫没有坟墓♫♫能容纳我的身体⋯⋯♫
en:(Video) Johnny Cash: ♫ There ain&#39;t no grave ♫♫ can hold my body down ♫♫ There ain&#39;t no grave ♫♫ can hold body down ♫♫ When I hear the trumpet sound ♫♫ I&#39;m going to ride right out of the ground ♫♫ Ain&#39;t no grave ♫♫ can hold my body ... ♫
时间：13:38
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：13:40
zh-cn:考博林：为他的歌曲制作点什么，是比较好的一种方式来向他致敬。
en:AK: What better way to pay tribute to the manthan to make something for one of his songs.
时间：13:46
zh-cn:522号画作者）：他死的时候我真的很伤心。我以为，贡献点什么来纪念他将会很棒，很不错 。
en:Collaborator: I felt really sad when he died.And I just thought it&#39;d be wonderful,it&#39;d be really nice to contribute something to his memory.
时间：13:53
zh-cn:329号画作者：这种方式使他最后录制的作品成为一个赋有生命的纪念。
en:Collaborator Two: It really allowsthis last recording of histo be a living, breathing memorial.
时间：14:03
zh-cn:851号画作者：歌迷们画的所有画，每一幅画，都具有非常强烈的感情。
en:Collaborator Three: For all of the frames to be drawn by fans,each individual frame,it&#39;s got a very powerful feeling to it.
时间：14:10
zh-cn:225号画作者：我看到人们来自于日本，委内瑞拉，美国还有田纳西州的诺克斯维尔。
en:Collaborator Four: I&#39;ve seen everybodyfrom Japan, Venezuela, to the States,to Knoxville, Tennessee.
时间：14:16
zh-cn:998号画作者：只要是不同于其他的画，它就是个人作品。583号画作者：在我房间里看这段视频，我自己刚开始也不明白。我只是工作，解决问题，直到有天凌晨，我纠结于我分配到的那幅画突然一切问题都开始自行解决我了解了我正在做什么，茅塞顿开。以一种奇怪的方式，那也是我为什么喜欢约翰·卡什的音乐。这是对他一生的一个小总结，这都是发生过的事件－坏的，好的。你在听的是一个人的一生。
en:Collaborator Five: As much as is different from frame to frame,it really is personal.Collaborator Six: Watching the video in my room,I could see me not understanding at the beginning of it.And I just worked and worked through problems,until my little wee battles that I was fighting within the pictureall began to resolve themselves.You can actually see the point when I know what I&#39;m doing,and a lot of light and dark comes into it.And in a weird way,that&#39;s what I actually like about Johnny Cash&#39;s music as well.It&#39;s the sum total of his life,all the things that had happened —the bad things, the good things.You&#39;re hearing a person&#39;s life.
时间：14:57
zh-cn:考博林：如果你去网站JohnnyCashProject.com你会在那里看到这个短片短片下面是每位参与这个项目的人的图像。这是个未完成的项目，一个还在进行当中的合作项目。如果滑动鼠标到任何一个简图，你可以看到制作该简图的人以及该制作人所处的方位。如果你找感兴趣的，还可以点击然后打开相关信息版块在那里，你可以评分以此来帮它上榜。你也可以看到该图像的制作过程。你还可以回放此外，还有艺术家们的名字和所在地，以及他们制作该图像所花费的时间长短。你可以选择风格。例如这个归类为“抽象派”。有很多不同的风格。你可以通过不同的分类方式来查找图像。你可以说，“我想看这个点彩画版本或者是素描版本，或者是真实版本。然后这个是抽象版本，结果弄得有点疯狂。
en:AK: So if you go to the website JohnnyCashProject.com,what you&#39;ll see is the video playing above.And below it are all the individual framesthat people have been submitting to the project.So this isn&#39;t finished at all,but it&#39;s an ongoing project where people can continue to collaborate.If you roll over any one of those individual thumbnails,you can see the person who drew that individual thumbnailand where they were located.And if you find one that you&#39;re interested in,you can actually click on it and open up an information panelwhere you&#39;re able to rate that frame,which helps it bubble up to the top.And you can also see the way that it was drawn.Again, you can get the playback and personal contribution.In addition to that, it&#39;s listed, the artist&#39;s name, the location,how long they spent drawing it.And you can pick a style. So this one was tagged &quot;Abstract.&quot;But there&#39;s a bunch of different styles.And you can sort the video a number of different ways.You can say, &quot;I want to see the pointillist versionor the sketchy version or the realistic version.And then this is, again, the abstract version,which ends up getting a little bit crazy.
时间：15:50
zh-cn:最后我想探讨的项目，是另外一个我和克里斯·缪克的合作名字是“市区荒野”。它是乐队拱廊之火的在线音乐录影带。克里斯和我都对现在网页浏览器的潜力感到惊讶，你有HTML5的音频和视频JavaScript的速度就呈现得很快。我们想推广这样的想法，就是音乐录影带和网络本来就是天作之合超越镜头的限制努力使其得以发挥，并编排整个屏幕视觉效果。但最重要的，我们想要尝试一下跟约翰·卡什那个项目不一样的东西，一小群人集合大量的时间来为大家呈献上点什么东西。如果我们花很少的投入，却可以让每个制作者都制作出很独特的作品？
en:So the last project I want to talk to you about is another collaboration with Chris Milk.And this is called &quot;The Wilderness Downtown.&quot;It&#39;s an online music video for the Arcade Fire.Chris and I were really amazedby the potential now with modern web browsers,where you have HTML5 audio and videoand the power of JavaScript to render amazingly fast.And we wanted to push the idea of the music video that was meant for the Webbeyond the four-by-three or sixteen-by-nine windowand try to make it play out and choreograph throughout the screen.But most importantly, I think,we really wanted to make an experience that was unlike the Johnny Cash Project,where you had a small group of people spending a lot of timeto contribute something for everyone.What if we had a very low commitment,but delivered something individually unique to each person who contributed?
时间：16:32
zh-cn:所以这个项目首先要求你输入你家乡的地址。你输入地址－然后利用谷歌地图和街道景观，为你制作出一份独特的音乐录影带使你身临其景之中。你回家输入地址后应该可以看到这个，我现在就给你预览下你将看到的东西。
en:So the project starts off by asking you to enter the addressof the home where you grew up.And you type in the address —it actually creates a music video specifically for you,pulling in Google maps and Streetview imagesinto the experience itself.So this should really be seen at home with you typing in your own address,but I&#39;m going to give you a little preview of what you can expect.
时间：16:50
zh-cn:（影片）温·巴特勒：♫现在我们的生活变化迅速♫♫现在我们的生活变化迅速♫♫希望那些纯净能延续♫♫希望那些纯净能延续♫♫喔 我们曾等待♫♫喔 我们曾等待♫♫喔 我们曾等待♫♫有时，它根本不曾来过♫♫有时，它根本不曾来过♫♫仍然正试图走出伤悲♫♫喔 我们曾等待♫♫喔 我们曾等待♫♫喔 我们曾等待♫
en:(Video) Win Butler: ♫ Now our lives are changing fast ♫♫ Now our lives are changing fast ♫♫ Hope that something pure can last ♫♫ Hope that something pure can last ♫♫ Ooh we used to wait ♫♫ Ooh we used to wait ♫♫ Ooh we used to wait ♫♫ Sometimes it never came ♫♫ Sometimes it never came ♫♫ Still moving through the pain ♫♫ We used to wait for it ♫♫ We used to wait for it ♫♫ We used to wait for it ♫
时间：17:46
zh-cn:考博林：所以我认为，如果我今天的演讲有一处可取的话，那就是，界面可以是一个很强大的叙事设备。当我们搜集越来越多的个人数据和相关的社会数据，我们有一个机会，也许是一个责任，那就是当我们探索和累积的同时，也要维续人类并传承那些惊人的故事。
en:AK: So I think, if there&#39;s one thing to take away from my talk today,it&#39;s that an interface can be a powerful narrative device.And as we collect more and more personally and socially relevant data,we have an opportunity, and maybe even an obligation,to maintain the humanity and tell some amazing storiesas we explore and collaborate together.
时间：18:01
zh-cn:非常感谢！
en:Thanks a lot.
时间：18:03
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
