时间： 0:11
zh-cn:欢迎来到百耶库，拉各斯州伊科罗杜市的一个河岸社区，这是尼日利亚各地众多河岸社区的缩影。这些社区的河道里被一种水草入侵泛滥成灾；这些社区的日常经济活动因此受到阻碍：捕鱼业，海洋运输，以及贸易；这些社区的鱼产量因此缩减；这些社区的学生因此连续好几天，甚至好几周，都无法去上学。谁会想到，这种有着圆形叶子，饱满的茎，和鲜艳淡紫色花朵的植物会给这些社区带来浩劫？
en:Welcome to Bayeku,a riverine community in Ikorodu, Lagos —a vivid representation of severalriverine communities across Nigeria,communities whose waterwayshave been infestedby an invasive aquatic weed;communities where economic livelihoodshave been hampered:fishing, marine transportationand trading;communities where fish yieldshave diminished;communities where schoolchildrenare unable to go to schoolfor days, sometimes weeks, on end.Who would have thought that this plantwith round leaves, inflated stems,and showy, lavender flowerswould cause such havocin these communities.
时间： 1:07
zh-cn:这种植物就是水葫芦，学名是凤眼莲。有趣的是，在尼日利亚，这种植物还有着一些别称，有些与历史事件有关，有些则与神话有关。在一些地方，这种植物被称为巴班吉达。当你听到巴班吉达的时候，你会想起军队和军事政变，然后你会想到：恐惧，管制。在尼日利亚的尼日尔三角洲地区，这种植物叫做阿比奥拉。当你听到阿比奥拉的时候，你会想到无效选举，然后你会想到：破灭的希望。在尼日利亚的西南地区，这种植物被称为贝布鲁，贝布鲁是约鲁巴语，意思是“流言”或“告密者”，“流言”会让你想到快速繁殖，毁灭。在尼日利亚的伊加拉语地区，这种植物被称为“阿比伊波玛”。听到这个词，你会联想到死亡，它的字面意思就是“母亲和孩子的死亡”。
en:The plant is known as water hyacinthand its botanical name,Eichhornia crassipes.Interestingly, in Nigeria,the plant is also known by other names,names associated with historical events,as well as myths.In some places,the plant is called Babangida.When you hear Babangida, you rememberthe military and military coups.And you think: fear, restraint.In parts of Nigeria in the Niger Delta,the plant is also known as Abiola.When you hear Abiola,you remember annulled electionsand you think: dashed hopes.In the southwestern part of Nigeria,the plant is known as Gbe&#39;borun.Gbe&#39;borun is a Yoruba phrasewhich translates to &quot;gossip,&quot;or &quot;talebearer.&quot;When you think of gossip, you think:rapid reproduction, destruction.And in the Igala-speaking part of Nigeria,the plant is known as A Kp&#39;iye Kp&#39;oma,And when you hear that,you think of death.It literally translatesto &quot;death to mother and child.&quot;
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:2009年，我亲眼目睹了这种植物。那时我刚从美国搬回到尼日利亚不久。我辞掉在美国的工作，决定去实现一个伟大的理想。这个理想源自于我深信在尼日利亚的可持续发展方面仍有很大发展空间。所以在2009年的时候，确切的说，是在2009年年底。我来到了拉各斯的第三大陆桥上。
en:I personally had my encounterwith this plant in the year 2009.It was shortly after I had relocatedfrom the US to Nigeria.I&#39;d quit my job in corporate Americaand decided to takethis big leap of faith,a leap of faith that cameout of a deep sense of convictionthat there was a lot of workto do in Nigeriain the area of sustainable development.And so here I was in the year 2009,actually, at the end of 2009,in Lagos on the Third Mainland Bridge.
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:我向左遥望，看到触目惊心的一幕，我看到渔船被水葫芦密密麻麻地包围起来。我对眼前的景象感到痛心疾首，因为我心里在想，“这些可怜的渔民，在这种束缚下，要如何维持日常生计呢？”然后我想，“一定有更好的办法。”一定有一个两全其美的方案，一方面通过清除水草开通水路以保护环境。一方面，为这些深受入侵杂草困扰的社区带来经济效益。可以说，那一刻，我灵光一现。
en:And I looked to my leftand saw this very arresting image.It was an image of fishing boatsthat had been hemmed inby dense mats of water hyacinth.And I was really pained by what I sawbecause I thought to myself,&quot;These poor fisherfolk,how are they goingto go about their daily activitieswith these restrictions.&quot;And then I thought,&quot;There&#39;s got to be a better way.&quot;A win-win solution wherebythe environment is taken care ofby the weeds being cleared out of the wayand then this being turnedinto an economic benefitfor the communitieswhose lives are impacted the mostby the infestation of the weed.That, I would say, was my spark moment.
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:接着，我做了进一步研究来找寻这些杂草更多的价值。其中，有一个最吸引我。那就是用植物来做手工艺品。我想，“这真是个好主意！”我本身就很喜欢手工艺品，尤其是有故事底蕴的手工艺品。我发现，“这不需要任何专业技能就能很顺利的在当地社区中推广。”我对自己说，“要实现这个宏大方案只要三个简单的步骤。 ”
en:And so I did further researchto find out moreabout the beneficial uses of this weed.Out of the several,one struck me the most.It was the use of the plantfor handicrafts.And I thought, &quot;What a great idea.&quot;Personally, I love handicrafts,especially handicraftsthat are woven around a story.And so I thought, &quot;This could beeasily deployed within the communitieswithout the requirementof technical skills.&quot;And I thought to myself,&quot;Three simple steps to a mega solution.&quot;
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:第一步，进入河道，收割水葫芦。这样，就开通了水道。
en:First step: Get out into the waterwaysand harvest the water hyacinth.That way, you create access.
时间： 4:21
zh-cn:第二步，晾干水葫芦的茎。
en:Secondly, you drythe water hyacinth stems.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:第三步，把水葫芦编织成工艺品。
en:And thirdly, you weavethe water hyacinth into products.
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:第三步是一个挑战。你看，我实际是个计算机科学家，并非从事艺术创作的人。因此我开始探索如何才能学会编织。
en:The third step was a challenge.See, I&#39;m a computer scientistby backgroundand not someone in the creative arts.And so I began my questto find out how I can learn how to weave.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:而这个探索将我带到伊巴丹的一个社区，也是我住的地方，萨博。萨博的意思是“陌生人的住所”。这个社区的居民主要来自于尼日利亚北部。毫不夸张的说，我手捧着这堆晾干的水草，事实上有好几束，去挨家挨户敲门，看谁能教我如何把这些水葫芦茎编织成绳子。有人指引我来到玛兰•雅哈亚的小屋，可是问题是，玛兰•雅哈亚不会说英语，而我也不会说豪萨语。所幸是有些小孩子伸出了援手帮助我们翻译。我就是这样开始了学习编织的旅程，学会将这种晾干的水葫芦茎编成长绳。
en:And this quest took meto a community in Ibadan, where I lived,called Sabo.Sabo translates to &quot;strangers&#39; quarters.&quot;And the community ispredominantly made up of peoplefrom the northern part of the country.So I literally tookmy dried weeds in hand,there were several more of them,and went knocking from door to doorto find out who could teach mehow to weave thesewater hyacinth stems into ropes.And I was directedto the shed of Malam Yahaya.The problem, though,is that Malam Yahaya doesn&#39;t speak Englishand neither did I speak Hausa.But some little kids came to the rescueand helped translate.And that began my journeyof learning how to weaveand transform thesedried water hyacinth stemsinto long ropes.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:有了长绳之后，我现在就有能力制作产品了。这也开启了我的合作事业，和藤篮制作者合作，一起创造产品。有它在手，我有信心能够将这些知识带回到河岸社区，帮助他们把灾难变为财富。把这些杂草编织成可以出售的产品。我们做了笔，餐具，做了钱袋，纸巾盒。借此也帮助当地社区从另一个角度看待水葫芦，将其视为有价值的，有美感的，耐用的，坚韧的，以及适应力强的。改变名称，改变谋生之道。
en:With my long ropes in hand,I was now equipped to make products.And that was the beginningof partnerships.Working with rattan basket makersto come up with products.So with this in hand, I felt confidentthat I would be ableto take this knowledgeback into the riverine communitiesand help them to transformtheir adversity into prosperity.So taking these weedsand actually weaving theminto products that can be sold.So we have pens, we have tableware,we have purses, we have tissue boxes.Thereby, helping the communitiesto see water hyacinthin a different light.Seeing water hyacinth as being valuable,being aesthetic,being durable, tough, resilient.Changing names, changing livelihoods.
时间： 6:30
zh-cn:从贝布鲁，意思是流言，到欧鲁苏坦，意思是说故事的人。从阿比伊波玛，意思是“杀死母亲和孩子的人”，变成雅度杰维波玛，意思是“为母亲和孩子提供食物的人”。
en:From Gbe&#39;borun, gossip,to Olusotan, storyteller.And from A Kp&#39;iye Kp&#39;oma,which is &quot;killer of mother and child,&quot;to Ya du j&#39;ewn w&#39;Iye kp&#39;Oma,&quot;provider of food for mother and child.&quot;
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:我想引用迈克尔•马戈利斯的一段话作为结束。他说，“想了解一种文化，去聆听他们的故事。想改变一种文化，去改写他们的故事。”
en:And I&#39;d like to endwith a quote by Michael Margolis.He said, &quot;If you want to learnabout a culture, listen to the stories.And if you want to change a culture,change the stories.&quot;
时间： 6:58
zh-cn:所以，从马科科社区，到阿博比利，到艾沃伊，再到柯洛，奥瓦瓦，伊沙巴，我们已经改写了故事。
en:And so, from Makoko community,to Abobiri, to Ewoi,to Kolo, to Owahwa, Esaba,we have changed the story.
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:感谢你们的聆听。
en:Thank you for listening.
时间： 7:11
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
