时间： 0:11
zh-cn:例假出血月经不雅秘密遮掩为什么会这样呢？
en:Periods.Blood.Menstruation.Gross.Secret.Hidden.Why?
时间： 0:23
zh-cn:作为一种自然的生理规律每个女孩和妇女在其一生中有一半的时间每个月都会经历例假。这个现象如此重要以至于全人类的生存和繁衍都要依赖于它。然而我们却视它为禁忌。我们谈论它时感到尴尬和羞耻。
en:A natural biological processthat every girl and womangoes through every monthfor about half of her life.A phenomenon that is so significantthat the survival and propagationof our species depends on it.Yet we consider it a taboo.We feel awkwardand shameful talking about it.
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:我第一次来例假时，别人告诉我不要将这件事告诉任何人哪怕是爸爸和哥哥。后来在教科书上出现了有关例假的章节，但是生物老师直接跳过了内容。
en:When I got my first periods,I was told to keep ita secret from others —even from my father and brother.Later when this chapterappeared in our textbooks,our biology teacher skipped the subject.
时间： 0:59
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:你知道我学到了什么吗？我学到了谈论例假是非常羞耻的事。我学到了为自己的身体感到羞耻我学到了为了保持体面就得假装不知道例假这件事。
en:You know what I learned from it?I learned that it is reallyshameful to talk about it.I learned to be ashamed of my body.I learned to stay unaware of periodsin order to stay decent.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:印度各地的调查显示十分之三的女孩第一次来例假时并不了解它。在拉贾斯坦邦的一些地区这一比例高达十分之九。你可能会感到惊讶大多数我接触过的女孩在第一次来例假时不知道例假是什么，她们以为她们得了血癌马上就要死了。
en:Research in various parts of Indiashows that three out of every 10 girlsare not aware of menstruationat the time of their first periods.And in some parts of Rajasthanthis number is as high as nineout of 10 girls being unaware of it.You&#39;d be surprised to knowthat most of the girlsthat I have spoken to,who did not know about periodsat the time of their first menstruationthought that they have got blood cancerand they&#39;re going to die soon.
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:经期卫生是导致女性生殖道感染的重要风险因素。但在印度只有12%的女孩和妇女拥有卫生的例假处理方式。换句话说88%的女孩和妇女处理例假的方式都不卫生。
en:Menstrual hygieneis a very important risk factorfor reproductive tract infections.But in India, only 12 percentof girls and womenhave access to hygienic waysof managing their periods.If you do the math,88 percent of girls and women useunhygienic ways to manage their periods.
时间： 2:08
zh-cn:我就是其中之一。我在拉贾斯坦邦的一个叫做加瓦的小镇长大在那里甚至买卫生棉都很丢脸。所以当我来例假的时候，使用的都是布条。使用完我会清洗再利用。但是我得找一个阴暗潮湿的地方把它藏起来，这样就没人知道我在生理期了。因为反复清洗布条变得粗糙，我常常得皮疹和感染。
en:I was one of them.I grew up in a small towncalled Garhwa, in Jharkhand,where even buying a sanitary napkinis considered shameful.So when I started getting my periods,I began with using rags.After every useI would wash and reuse them.But to store them,I would hide and keep itin a dark, damp placeso that nobody finds outthat I&#39;m menstruating.Due to repeated washingthe rags would become coarse,and I would often get rashesand infections using them.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:在离开了小镇之前，五年来我一直用这样的方式处理例假。另外一个例假带来的不便，是社会强加在月经期的女孩和妇女的一些限制。我想大家都有所耳闻，我将为那些不知道的人一一列举。
en:I wore these already for five yearsuntil I moved out of that town.Another issuethat periods brought in my lifethose of the social restrictionsthat are imposed upon our girlsand women when they&#39;re on their periods.I think you all must be aware of it,but I&#39;ll still list itfor the few who don&#39;t.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:我不能碰也不能吃腌菜，我不能坐在沙发上也不能坐在其他家庭成员的床上每次例假结束我都要清洗床单，即使床单上没有污渍。我被认定是不洁之人不允许参拜或触摸任何宗教物品。不允许经期女性进入庙宇的警示牌随处可见。
en:I was not allowed to touch or eat pickles.I was not allowed to sit on the sofaor some other family member&#39;s bed.I had to wash my bed sheetafter every period,even if it was not stained.I was considered impureand forbidden from worshipping or touchingany object of religious importance.You&#39;ll find signposts outside templesdenying the entryof menstruating girls and women.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:讽刺的是，这些限制往往是家族中年纪较大的女性强加到年轻女性身上的。毕竟随她们长大她们接受这些限制并且将其当成标准。在没有任何干预的情况下这样的传播和误解一代一代的传播下来。
en:Ironically,most of the time it is the older womanwho imposes such restrictionson younger girls in a family.After all, they have grown upaccepting such restrictions as norms.And in the absence of any intervention,it is the myth and misconceptionthat propagatefrom generation to generation.
时间： 3:50
zh-cn:在我研究这几年的研究中我甚至听到过女孩需要单独吃饭和洗碗这样的故事她们在经期不允许洗澡，有的家庭甚至把她们关起来以防和其他家庭成员接触。在印度大约85%的女性在例假期间都会至少遵循一条这些限制性的习俗你能想象这对一个年轻女孩的自尊和自信产生什么样的影响吗？这造成的心理创伤可以影响女孩的性格学习成绩和在早年性格形成过程中每个方面的成长。
en:During my years of work in this field,I have even come across storieswhere girls have to eatand wash their dishes separately.They&#39;re not allowedto take baths during periods,and in some households they are evensecluded from other family members.About 85 percent of girlsand women in Indiawould follow one or more restrictivecustoms on their periods every month.Can you imagine what this doesto the self-esteemand self-confidence of a young girl?The psychological traumathat this inflicts,affecting her personality,her academic performanceand every single aspect of growing upduring her early formative years?
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:我虔诚地遵循了13年的习俗直到我和一个叫图新的朋友聊天让我永久的改变了对生理期的看法。2009年图新和我都在读设计专业研究生。我们彼此相爱我和他谈论经期也比较自在。图新不懂例假。
en:I religiously followed all theserestrictive customs for 13 years,until a discussion with my partner, Tuhin,changed my perceptionabout menstruation forever.In 2009, Tuhin and I were pursuingour postgraduation in design.We fell in love with each otherand I was at easediscussing periods with him.Tuhin knew little about periods.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:当他知道女孩每个月有月经甚至还要流血时震惊不已。
en:He was astonished to knowthat girls get painful crampsand we bleed every month.
时间： 5:07
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:是的。当他知道经期女性受到的家庭和社会强加的种种限制后更加震惊不已。为了帮助我更好的度过月经他会去搜索网络学习更多经期知识当他和我分享月经知识的时候我才意识到自己对月经知之甚少。很多我之前所相信的都是假的。
en:Yeah.He was completely shocked to knowabout the restrictions that are imposedupon menstruating girls and womenby their own families and their society.In order to help me with my cramps,he would go on the Internetand learn more about menstruation.When he shared his findings with me,I realized how little I knewabout menstruation myself.And many of my beliefsactually turned out to be myths.
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:我们怀疑：如果我们作为受过高等教育的人，都对月经知之甚少，其它数百万的女孩知道的就更少了。为了研究为了更好地研究这个问题，我用了一年的时间来研究为什么月经问题一直被忽视和根植于背后的问题。
en:That&#39;s when we wondered:if we, being so well educated,were so ill-informed about menstruation,there would be millions of girls out therewho would be ill-informed, too.To study —to understand the problem better,I undertook a year-long research to studythe lack of awareness about menstruationand the root cause behind it.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:为什么大家普遍认为对于月经的忽视和误解是一个农村问题。在我的研究过程中，我发现它也是城市问题。它在城市受过良好教育的人群里也存在着。通过和许多家长和老师的讨论我发现他们中很多人实际上希望在女孩的月经来临前告诉她月经的知识。恩但是他们缺乏合适的方法。因为这是一个禁忌，他们在谈论它的时候感觉压抑和羞耻。
en:While it is generally believedthat menstrual unawarenessand misconception is a rural phenomenon,during my research,I found that it is as muchan urban phenomenon as well.And it exists with the educatedurban class, also.While talking to manyparents and teachers,I found that many of them actuallywanted to educate girls about periodsbefore they have startedgetting their menstrual cycle.And —but they lackedthe proper means themselves.And since it is a taboo,they feel inhibitionand shameful in talking about it.
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:现在女孩子大多在六年级七年级开始来月经，但是我们的教育课程在八，九年级的时候才正式的讲月经的知识。而且正因为它是禁忌，老师们一起仍然跳过这些内容。
en:Girls nowadays get their periodsin classes six and seven,but our educational curriculumteaches girls about periodsonly in standard eight and nine.And since it is a taboo,teachers stillskip the subject altogether.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:所以学校不告诉女孩经期知识，家长们也不谈论这些。那些女孩怎么办呢？20年来直到今天一直都是这样。我和图新分享了这些发现之后我们认为我们应该创造一些东西来帮助女孩了解他们自己的生理期，创造一些能够帮助家长和老师更舒服地和孩子们谈论生理期的东西。
en:So school does notteach girls about periods,parents don&#39;t talk about it.Where do the girls go?Two decades ago and now —nothing has changed.I shared these finding with Tuhinand we wondered:What if we could create somethingthat would help girls understandabout menstruation on their own —something that would helpparents and teacherstalk about periodscomfortably to young girls?
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:在我的研究中，我收集了很多故事。这些女孩们在她们经期时的经验故事让其他女孩在这个属于她们自己的圈子里好奇并感兴趣地谈论这个问题。这就是我们想要的。我们想让女孩通过好奇心的驱使去学习月经知识。我们希望用这些故事来告诉女孩什么事例假。
en:During my research,I was collecting a lot of stories.These were stories of experiencesof girls during their periods.These stories would make girlscurious and interestedin talking about menstruationin their close circle.That&#39;s what we wanted.We wanted somethingthat would make the girls curiousand drive them to learn about it.We wanted to use these storiesto teach girls about periods.
时间： 7:56
zh-cn:所以我们决定写一本漫画书，里面的卡通角色演绎了这些故事并用风趣迷人的方式告诉女孩子们生理期的知识。为了给不同青春期阶段的女孩更好地展示，我们有三个人物。平吉，她还没有开始例假，吉雅，她在这本书的叙述中开始了例假，还有米娅，她已经开始了例假。还有第四个角色，皮里亚·迪迪。通过她女孩们知道人体成长的方方面面和经期卫生管理知识。
en:So we decided to create a comic book,where the cartoon characterswould enact these storiesand educate girls about menstruationin a fun and engaging way.To represent girlsin their different phases of puberty,we have three characters.Pinki, who has not gotten her period yet,Jiya who gets her periodduring the narrative of the bookand Mira who has alreadybeen getting her period.There is a fourth character, Priya Didi.Through her, girls come to knowabout the various aspects of growing upand menstrual hygiene management.
时间： 8:31
zh-cn:在制作这本书的过程中，我们确保每一张插画都不会引起读者的反感和文化的敏感。在我们第一版书的测试中我们发现女孩很爱这本书。她们急不可待地读知道了越来越多她们自己的经期的知识。家长和老师使用这本书给女孩们讲经期知识时也非常的舒服，有的时候甚至男孩也对它感兴趣。
en:While making the book, we took great carethat none of the illustrationswere objectionable in any wayand that it is culturally sensitive.During our prototype testing,we found that the girls loved the book.They were keen on reading itand knowing more and moreabout periods on their own.Parents and teachers werecomfortable in talking about periodsto young girls using the book,and sometimes even boyswere interested in reading it.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:58
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:这本漫画书改变了大众的氛围月经再也不是一个禁忌。在印度五个不同的地区很多志愿者用这本书的初版来教育女孩并且开展提高月经认识的讲习班。甚至有一位志愿者用这本书去教育年轻的僧人把它带到了拉达克的寺庙中。
en:The comic book helpedin creating an environmentwhere menstruation ceased to be a taboo.Many of the volunteers took this prototypethemselves to educate girlsand take menstrual awareness workshopsin five different states in India.And one of the volunteerstook this prototype to educate young monksand took it to this monastery in Ladakh.
时间： 9:23
zh-cn:我们这本书的最终版本叫做“月经百科”漫画在去年九月正式出版。到目前为止，在印度和其他十余个不同的国家超过4000个女孩
en:We made the final version of the book,called &quot;Menstrupedia Comic&quot;and launched in September last year.And so far,more than 4,000 girls have beeneducated by using the book in India and —
时间： 9:35
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:38
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 9:39
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:45
zh-cn:受到了这本书的教育我们不断地把这本书翻译成不同的语言不断地和当地的机构合作让这本书在不同的国家可以上市。
en:And 10 different countries.We are constantly translating the bookinto different languagesand collaborating with local organizationsto make this book availablein different countries.
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:在印度15所来自不同地方的学校把这本书纳入了教学课程之中来为女孩讲解经期知识。
en:15 schools in different parts of Indiahave made this booka part of their school curriculumto teach girls about menstruation.
时间：10:04
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：10:11
zh-cn:我惊讶于志愿者个人，家长，老师，校长共同努力提升所在社区的女性生理意识，确保女孩在正确的时间学习生理知识并帮助破除这个禁忌。
en:I am amazed to see how volunteers,individuals, parents,teachers, school principals,have come togetherand taken this menstrual awarenessdrive to their own communities,have made sure that the girlslearn about periods at the right ageand helped in breaking this taboo.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:我希望将来有一天月经不再是一个诅咒，不再是疾病，而是一个女孩生命中受到欢迎的转折点。我希望
en:I dream of a futurewhere menstruation is not a curse,not a disease,but a welcoming change in a girl&#39;s life.And I would —
时间：10:44
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：10:48
zh-cn:我希望在结尾对各位家长提出一个小小的要求。
en:And I would like to end thiswith a small requestto all the parents here.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:亲爱的家长们，如果您对于例假感到羞耻，您的女儿也会一样。所以做一个积极面对例假的人。
en:Dear parents,if you would be ashamed of periods,your daughters would be, too.So please be period positive.
时间：11:03
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:04
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：11:05
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
