时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我十岁的时候，我的一个表兄带我参观了他上的医学院。作为一次特别优待他带我去了病理学实验室拿出一个真正的人脑从一个罐子里把它放在了我手里。就是这这里就是人们意识的载体人们身体的司令部它就在我手中这一天我知道当我长大我会成为一名研究大脑的医生科学家，或者是其他的什么，
en:When I was 10 years old,a cousin of mine took me on a tour of his medical school.And as a special treat,he took me to the pathology laband took a real human brainout of the jarand placed it in my hands.And there it was,the seat of human consciousness,the powerhouse of the human body,sitting in my hands.And that day I knew that when I grew up,I was going to become a brain doctor,scientist, something or the other.
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:几年之后，当我真地长大了，我的梦想实现了。就在我做关于儿童阅读障碍的神经学起因的博士论文时我发现了一个令人吃惊的现象今天我想以此与你们分享。据估计有六分之一的儿童，六分之一呀，受发展障碍的影响。这是一种妨碍儿童智力发展，甚至导致智力永久损伤的疾病。这意味着今天在座的各位中每六个人中就有一个人知道至少一个孩子正在受发展障碍疾病的折磨。
en:Years later, when I finally grew up,my dream came true.And it was while I was doing my Ph.D.on the neurological causesof dyslexia in childrenthat I encountered a startling factthat I&#39;d like to share with you all today.It is estimated that one in six children,that&#39;s one in six children,suffer from some developmental disorder.This is a disorder thatretards mental development in the childand causes permanent mental impairments.Which means that each and every one of you here todayknows at least one child that is sufferingfrom a developmental disorder.
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:但是困扰我的还不是这个。尽管每一种每一种疾病都可以在大脑中找到根源，但大部分只能通过可观察到的行为来确诊。诊断一种脑部疾病却不直接查看大脑就像是治疗心脏病人根据他们的身体症状，而不做心电图或者胸部X-光片来查看心脏。我凭直觉感到要准确地诊断治疗脑部疾病直接查看大脑是很必要的。直接观察行为本身就可能错过至关重要的信息而仅仅提供一种不完整，甚至能让人误解的构想。但是，尽管有先进的医疗技术，要诊断出六分之一患病儿童的病因依然不是件容易的事。
en:But here&#39;s what really perplexed me.Despite the fact that eachand every one of these disordersoriginates in the brain,most of these disordersare diagnosed solely on the basisof observable behavior.But diagnosing a brain disorderwithout actually looking at the brainis analogous to treating a patient with a heart problembased on their physical symptoms,without even doing an ECG or a chest X-rayto look at the heart.It seemed so intuitive to me.To diagnose and treat a brain disorder accurately,it would be necessary to look at the brain directly.Looking at behavior alonecan miss a vital piece of the puzzleand provide an incomplete, or even a misleading,picture of the child&#39;s problems.Yet, despite all the advances in medical technology,the diagnosis of brain disordersin one in six childrenstill remained so limited.
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:之后我便遇到了哈佛大学的一个小组，他们已经研发出了先进的医疗技术并最终把这种技术应用到了诊断儿童脑部疾病中而不是应用到脑部研究。他们极具创造力的技术记录下了脑电图或实时的脑部电波活动，这可以让我们观察大脑在它履行各种功能时然后就我们就可以发现一些轻微的反常之处在下面的这些功能中，视觉，注意力，语言，听觉。有一项叫做大脑电波活动图谱的工程会找出大脑中的反常的地方另一项叫做统计概率图谱的工程用数学计算的办法来算出这些反常是否在临床上有用，如果有用就给我们提供了一种更准确的神经诊断方法对儿童的症状。就这样我成为了这个团队中临床分支的领导者。最终我们可以用这种技术来帮助那些有大脑障碍的儿童。我很高兴现在我正在将这项技术在印度建立起来。
en:And then I came across a team at Harvard Universitythat had taken one such advanced medical technologyand finally applied it,instead of in brain research,towards diagnosing brain disorders in children.Their groundbreaking technologyrecords the EEG, or the electrical activityof the brain, in real time,allowing us to watch the brainas it performs various functionsand then detect even the slightest abnormalityin any of these functions:vision, attention, language, audition.A program called Brain ElectricalActivity Mappingthen triangulates the sourceof that abnormality in the brain.And another program calledStatistical Probability Mappingthen performs mathematical calculationsto determine whether any of these abnormalitiesare clinically significant,allowing us to provide a much more accurateneurological diagnosisof the child&#39;s symptoms.And so I became the head of neurophysiologyfor the clinical arm of this team,and we&#39;re finally able to use this technologytowards actually helpingchildren with brain disorders.And I&#39;m happy to say that I&#39;m now in the processof setting up this technology here in India.
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:我想告诉你这样一个孩子，他的故事也被ABC新闻报道过。七岁的查斯丁 西尼加来到我们诊所他被诊断患有严重的自闭症。像许多自闭症儿童一样他的思想被禁闭在身体中。就曾出现过他经常独自发呆几秒钟的情况。医生告诉他的父母他再也不能与人交流了，他可能不太会说话了。
en:I&#39;d like to tell you about one such child,whose story was also covered by ABC News.Seven-year-old Justin Senigarcame to our clinic with this diagnosisof very severe autism.Like many autistic children,his mind was locked inside his body.There were moments when he wouldactually space out for seconds at a time.And the doctors told his parentshe was never going to be ableto communicate or interact socially,and he would probably never have too much language.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:当我们用这种创造性的脑电图技术查看查斯丁的大脑时结果令人吃惊。它显示查斯丁几乎没有自闭症。他正在受癫痫的折磨他正在受癫痫的折磨而这几乎不可能用肉眼发现，却引起了像自闭症一样的症状。在治疗查斯丁的癫痫时，他的变化很惊人。60天之内，他的词汇量从两三个单词提高到300个单词。他的沟通和社交能力也得到了极大地提高，因而他入学了并成为了空手道超级冠军。
en:When we used this groundbreaking EEG technologyto actually look at Justin&#39;s brain,the results were startling.It turned out that Justin was almostcertainly not autistic.He was suffering from brain seizuresthat were impossible to see with the naked eye,but that were actually causing symptomsthat mimicked those of autism.After Justin was given anti-seizure medication,the change in him was amazing.Within a period of 60 days,his vocabulary went from two to three wordsto 300 words.And his communication and social interactionwere improved so dramaticallythat he was enrolled into a regular schooland even became a karate super champ.
时间： 5:05
zh-cn:研究表明一半几乎一半被诊断患有自闭症的儿童实际上是受着隐秘的癫痫的折磨。这是一些我检测过的儿童的脸。有着像查斯丁一样故事的所有这些孩子被诊断患有自闭症，注意力缺失，智力障碍，语言问题来到我们的诊所。而我们脑电图扫描显示他们的大脑中隐藏着一些问题这些问题很可能不会通过对他们行为的估测来发现。因此这些脑电图扫描让我们对这些孩子做出了更为准确的精神诊断更具针对性的治疗。
en:Research shows that 50 percent of children,almost 50 percent of childrendiagnosed with autismare actually suffering from hidden brain seizures.These are the faces of the childrenthat I have testedwith stories just like Justin.All these childrencame to our clinic with a diagnosisof autism, attention deficit disorder,mental retardation, language problems.Instead, our EEG scans revealedvery specific problems hidden within their brainsthat couldn&#39;t possibly have been detectedby their behavioral assessments.So these EEG scansenabled us to provide these childrenwith a much more accurate neurological diagnosisand much more targeted treatment.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:有发展障碍的儿童被误诊而他们真正的问题却没有被发现并变得更严重，这种情况持续太久了。这些孩子和他们的父母受挫折和绝望的折磨太久了。但现在我们处在一个神经科学的新时代，在这个时代我们可以实时地直接查看大脑的功能状态这不会有危险或副作用，没有侵害性，并找到如此这些儿童智力障碍的真正原因。
en:For too long now, children with developmental disordershave suffered from misdiagnosiswhile their real problems have gone undetectedand left to worsen.And for too long, these children and their parentshave suffered undue frustration and desperation.But we are now in a new era of neuroscience,one in which we can finally lookdirectly at brain function in real timewith no risks and no side effects, non-invasively,and find the true sourceof so many disabilities in children.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:如果今天我可以通过与一位孩子患有发展障碍的父母分享这种先进的诊断办法让在座的各位中一小部分人感到备受鼓舞的话那也许又一个人脑中的疑惑会被消除。又一个思想会被解放。又一个被误诊的或是没有被该系统诊断的孩子会意识到他或她的潜力那就是这仍然还有时间让他或她的大脑恢复正常。所有这些只需通过观察这个孩子的脑电波。
en:So if I could inspireeven a fraction of you in the audience todayto share this pioneering diagnostic approachwith even one parent whose childis suffering from a developmental disorder,then perhaps one more puzzlein one more brain will be solved.One more mind will be unlocked.And one more child who has been misdiagnosedor even undiagnosed by the systemwill finally realize his or her true potentialwhile there&#39;s still timefor his or her brain to recover.And all this by simply watching the child&#39;s brainwaves.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
