时间： 0:11
zh-cn:好，今天早上我要讲的是关于贪腐的问题。贪腐的定义是滥用自己被信任的职位为了自己的私利，或者我今天讲的，图利你的朋友， 你的家人或是你的投资者。懂了吗？朋友，家人或投资者。但是我们需要了解我们到底是如何理解贪腐的。而且我们要认识到，在这个问题上我们一直是被教育误导的。我们要承认这一点。只有有勇气承认这一点，才能开始改变我们对待它的方式。
en:Okay, this morning I&#39;m speakingon the question of corruption.And corruption is definedas the abuse of a position of trustfor the benefit of yourself — or, in the case of our context,your friends, your family or your financiers.Okay? Friends, family and financiers.But we need to understand what we understand about corruption,and we need to understand thatwe have been miseducated about it, and we have to admit that.We have to have the courage to admit thatto start changing how we deal with it.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:第一件事，是个很大的迷思，最大的一个。即认为贪腐并不是真正的犯罪。当我们和亲朋好友一起，聊到国内的犯罪行为，在贝尔蒙特，迭戈或是马尔贝拉的犯罪的时候，没有人会谈到贪腐。这无疑是真实情况。当警署的行政长官在电视上说到犯罪的时候，他说的也绝不会是贪腐。然后我们也很确信，国家安全部部长谈论犯罪的时候，他也不是在说贪腐。我想要强调的观点是：贪腐就是犯罪。这是一种经济犯罪， 因为贪腐是在剥夺纳税人的钱。贪腐在公家机关和私营企业中都存在，这是不争的事实。作为来自私营企业的一员，我可以告诉你这里有大量的腐败。我说的是和公家机关无关的企业内部贪腐。同样的贿赂，回扣，暗箱操作，在私营企业都存在。我把今天的焦点放在政府部门的贪腐问题。私营企业也参与其中。
en:The first thing is that the big myth, number one,is that in fact it&#39;s not really a crime.When we get together with friends and familyand we discuss crime in our country,crime in Belmont or crime in Diego or crime in Marabella,nobody&#39;s speaking about corruption.That&#39;s the honest truth.When the Commissioner of Police comes on TV to talk about crime,he isn&#39;t speaking about corruption.And we know for sure when the Minister of National Securityis speaking about crime, he&#39;s not talking about corruption either.The point I&#39;m making is that it is a crime.It is an economic crime, because we&#39;re involving the looting of taxpayers&#39; money.Public and private corruption is a reality.As somebody who comes from the private sector,I can tell you there&#39;s a massive amount of corruptionin the private sector that has nothing to do with government.The same bribes and backhanders and things that take place under the table,it all takes place in the private sector.Today, I&#39;m focusing on public sector corruption,which the private sector also participates in.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:第二个要澄清的迷思是——因为我们必须破除这些迷思，去除，破坏并唾弃他们——第二个重要的迷思是这种说法：贪腐实际上只是小问题。如果是有问题，也微不足道。影响可能是10%到15%。一直都有，说不定还会永远存在。就算立法规范也没意义，因为我们拿它没办法。我想举例指出，这些想法也是非常危险的迷思。非常危险。我举的例子是一场公共的闹剧。
en:The second important myth to understand —because we have to destroy these myths,dismantle them and destroy them and ridicule them —the second important myth to understandis the one that saysthat in fact corruption is only a small problem —if it is a problem, it&#39;s only a small problem,that in fact it&#39;s only a little 10 or 15 percent,it&#39;s been going on forever, it probably will continue forever,and there&#39;s no point passing any laws, because there&#39;s little we can do about it.And I want to demonstrate that that, too,is a dangerous myth, very dangerous.It&#39;s a piece of public mischief.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:我想先讲一下背景，让我们回溯大概30年。我们来自特立尼达多巴哥（Trinidad and Tobago），这是一个资源丰富，但面积不大的加勒比海国家，在20世纪70年代早期，国家财富大量增加。这得益于世界油价的增长。我们称之为石油美元（petrodollars）。那时国库爆满。然而很讽刺，我们今天站在中央银行。你们看，历史就是充满了讽刺。我们今天站在中央银行大楼里，中央银行这起闹剧的罪魁祸首，接下来我会讲到这些。可以吗？我们在政府机构谈论失职问题。广场对面那栋大楼，是我们的财政部大楼。和我们今天的话题有很多关联性，所以今天所谈论的是和你们戚戚相关的。好吗？
en:And I want to speak a little bit,take us back about 30 years.We&#39;re coming out today from Trinidad and Tobago,a resource-rich, small Caribbean country,and in the early 1970s we had a massive increase in the country&#39;s wealth,and that increase was caused by the increase in world oil prices.We call them petrodollars. The treasury was bursting with money.And it&#39;s ironic, becausewe&#39;re standing today in the Central Bank.You see, history&#39;s rich in irony.We&#39;re standing today in the Central Bank,and the Central Bank is responsible for a lot of the things I&#39;m going to be speaking about.Okay? We&#39;re talking about irresponsibility in public office.We&#39;re speaking about the fact that across the terrace,the next tower is the Ministry of Finance,and there&#39;s a lot of connection with us today,so we&#39;re speaking within your temple today. Okay?
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:我想说的第一件事情是，大约40年前，当这些钱流入我国以后，我们开始着手利用，当时的政府。他们签订了一系列的政府国际协定，使国家快速发展。国内有些最大的项目，是根据政府国际协定，由一些先进国家来建设的。美国，英国，法国，等等。就像我说的，甚至我们所处的这栋建筑,它也是一个讽刺。这栋建筑是那一系列复杂关系中的一部分，他们叫它双子星大厦。整个情况变得让人无法忍受，以至于我们任命了调查委员会。据1982年的报道，30年前的报告，叫Ballah报告—30年前，政府之间的协定立刻就被停止了。然后总理出席议会，做政府财政报告。报告让我印象深刻，无法忘怀。当时他们就在此地。那时我还是一个年轻人。演说直击我心。他说，事实上，—让我看看这个能不能用可以了吗？—他是这么说的。他告诉我们，事实上，我们的石油美金中，三分之二的钱我们花掉的，纳税人的钱，是被浪费掉或者挪用了。所以10%或者15%的说法完全是错的。就像我们说的，它跟幼儿故事一样是骗人的。别再相信了！那是说给小孩听的，我们都是成年人了。我们要试着去解决我们社会中存在的问题。ok？这才是问题的真实大小。ok？三分之二的钱被挪用或浪费。那是30年以前。1982年Ballah。
en:The first thing I want to talk about is thatwhen all of this money flowed into our country about 40 years ago,we embarked, the government of the day embarkedon a series of government-to-government arrangementsto have rapidly develop the country.And some of the largest projects in the countrywere being constructed through government-to-government arrangementswith some of the leading countries in the world,the United States and Britain and France and so on and so on.As I said, even this building we&#39;re standing in — that&#39;s one of the ironies —this building was part of that series of complexes,what they called the Twin Towers.It became so outrageous, the whole situation,that in fact a commission of inquiry was appointed,and it reported in 1982, 30 years ago it reported —the Ballah Report — 30 years ago,and immediately the government-to-government arrangements were stopped.The then-Prime Minister went to Parliamentto give a budget speech, and he said some things that I&#39;ll never forget.They went right in here. I was a young man at the time.It went right into my heart.And he said that, in fact — Let me see if this thing works.Are we getting a, yeah?—That&#39;s what he told us.He told us that, in fact,two out of every three dollars of our petrodollarsthat we spent, the taxpayers&#39; money,was wasted or stolen.So the 10 or 15 percent is pure mischief.As we say, it&#39;s a nancy-story. Forget it.That&#39;s for little children. We are big people,and we&#39;re trying to deal with what&#39;s happening in our society.Okay? This is the size of the problem.Okay? Two thirds of the money stolen or wasted.That was 30 years ago. 1982 was Ballah.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:那么状况有改变吗？我不想泄露让人尴尬的机密，这里有很多外国观众。但是我别无选择。四个月以前，我们这个国家遭遇了宪法暴行。我们称为 “34节的惨败”。这是一段可疑的法律条文，我实事求是的说。可疑的法律条文，它在可疑的时间通过，为了释放某些可疑的嫌疑人。（笑声）据说这些人们被称作，皮亚尔科机场（the Piarco Airport ）被告。今天在这里我用自己的词汇来讲，他们叫做皮亚尔科机场被告。这是一级的宪法不公。我把它看作是国会堕落的阴谋。我们国家的最高机关堕落了。出于经济和财务天性，我们在这里处理堕落问题。你们能看出来问题有多严重吗？大规模的抗议，很多人在这间屋子里，以各种形式表达他们的不满。最重要的是，美国大使馆也开始抱怨，以至于国会很快重新召开。这条法律被推翻了，被废除了。律师的说法是这样。被废除了。但是重点是，国会在整个事件中是被蒙蔽的，因为事情的真相是，因为这条可疑法律的通过，这条法律要在我们庆祝50周年独立纪念的周末生效。独立纪念日。这是整个事件中最难容忍的部分。这似乎是用下流的手段达到目的，但我们最终还是达到了。因为我们都能理解。而且记忆中是第一次针对贪腐举行了大规模的抗议活动。这让我充满希望。是吗？有时候你觉得你微不足道，单打独斗，这条法律的通过和废除，壮大了Piarco机场被告。所以事完全就是一桩彻头彻尾的欺骗。
en:So what has changed?I don&#39;t like to bring up embarrassing secretsto an international audience, but I have to.Four months ago, we suffered a constitutional outrage in this country.We call it the Section 34 fiasco, the Section 34 fiasco,a suspicious piece of law, and I&#39;m going to say it like it is,a suspicious piece of lawwas passed at a suspicious timeto free some suspects. (Laughter)And it was called, those people are calledthe Piarco Airport accused.I&#39;m going to have my own lexicon speaking here today.They are the Piarco Airport accused.It was a constitutional outrage of the first order,and I have labeled it the Plot to Pervert Parliament.Our highest institution in our country was perverted.We are dealing with perverts hereof an economic and financial nature.Do you get how serious this problem is?There was massive protest. A lot of us in this roomtook part in the protest in different forms.Most importantly, the American embassy complained,so Parliament was swiftly reconvened,and the law was reversed, it was repealed.That&#39;s the word lawyers use. It was repealed.But the point isthat Parliament was outwitted in the whole course of events,because what really happened is that,because of the suspicious passage of that law,the law was actually passed into effecton the weekend we celebrated our 50th anniversary of independence,our jubilee of independence.So that is the kind of outrage of the thing.It was kind of a nasty way to get maturation, but we got it,because we all understood it,and for the first time that I could remember,there were mass protests against this corruption.And that gave me a lot of hope. Okay?Those of us who are, sometimes you feel likeyou&#39;re a little bit on your own doing some of this work.That passage of the law and the repeal of the lawfortified the case of the Piarco Airport accused.So it was one of those really superior double bluff kind of things that took place.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:但是他们被指控了什么？他们到底被指控了什么？我好像有点在故弄玄虚。他们犯了什么法？我们大规模的建造，或者说是重建一座老旧的机场。整个项目花费大约16亿特立尼达和多巴哥币。而事实上，这个过程发生了很多虚假投标，可疑行为，贪腐。如果要了解有哪些，然后把它和我说的第二个迷思联系起来，“不是什么大问题”的迷思。你们可以看第二张幻灯片。这里说———不是我说的，这是一个检察长在书面报告中写的。是他说的。他告诉我们在这16亿项目中，有10亿被查到在海外银行帐户。纳税人的钱有10亿，在海外银行帐户。
en:But what were they accused of?What was it that they were accused of?I&#39;m being a bit mysterious for those of you out there. What were they accused of?We were trying to build, or reconstruct largely,an airport that had grown outdated.The entire project cost about 1.6 billion dollars,Trinidad and Tobago dollars,and in fact, we had a lot of bid-riggingand suspicious activity, corrupt activity took place.And to get an idea of what it consisted of,and to put it in context in relationship to this wholesecond myth about it being no big thing,we can look at this second slide here.And what we have here — I am not saying so,this is the Director of Public Prosecutions in a written statement. He said so.And he&#39;s telling us that for the $1.6 billion cost of the project,one billion dollars has been tracedto offshore bank accounts.One billion dollars of our taxpayers&#39; moneyhas been located in offshore bank accounts.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:作为一个爱问问题的人，气愤难平，容我暂停片刻。我想暂停一下，讲一些其他的事情。我要讲一些我见到的事情。去年11月在华尔街，我在祖科蒂公园（Zuccotti Park），那时是秋天，天气凉爽潮湿。快天黑的时候，我经过一群抗议者。看着参加“一个华尔街，占领华尔街”运动的人们在周围走过，有位女士拿着一块牌子，非常简单的牌子，她是一位身型消瘦的金发女士。牌子是用很好的纸板做的，用马克笔在上面写了字。牌子上的话深深的打动了我。它写说：如果你并不觉得气愤，那是因为你漠不关心。如果你对所有这些无动于衷，那是因为你漠不关心。所以仔细聆听，因为我们说不定更堕落。
en:Being the kind of suspicious person I am,I am outraged at that, and I&#39;m going to pause here,I&#39;m going to pause now and again and bring in different things.I&#39;m going to pause here and bring in something I sawin November last year at Wall Street. I was at Zuccotti Park.It was autumn. It was cool. It was damp. It was getting dark.And I was walking around with the protesterslooking at the One Wall Street, Occupy Wall Street movement walking around.And there was a lady with a sign, a very simple sign,a kind of battered-looking blonde lady,and the sign was made out of Bristol board, as we say in these parts,and it was made with a marker.And what it said on that sign hit me right in the center.It said, &quot;If you&#39;re not outraged, you haven&#39;t been paying attention.&quot;If you&#39;re not outraged by all of this, you haven&#39;t been paying attention.So listen up, because we&#39;re getting into even deeper waters.
时间： 8:31
zh-cn:我开始思考。那么，如果—不好意思，我生性多疑，我读了很多的间谍小说什么的。如果—（笑声）但要挑出这些刺，你就要读很多间谍小说对吧？还要按照间谍小说的思路走，对吧？（笑声）如果不是第一次呢？如果这些事情只是第一次被抓到而已呢？如果以前就曾有过这种事呢？我要怎么知道啊？好，我刚才的两个例子，是关于建设部门贪腐问题的，目前，我有幸作为非营利组织联合咨询委员会(Joint Consultative Council)的负责人，我们的网站是jcc.org.tt，我们致力于创造一个新的公共采购系统，以监督公共财产运作。如果各位有兴趣进一步了解，加入我们或联署我们的诉求，不要犹豫。
en:My brain started thinking.Well, what if —because I&#39;m suspicious like that. I read a lot of spy novels and stuff.What if — (Laughter)But to make it in these wrongs,you have to read a lot of spy novelsand follow some of that stuff, right? (Laughter)But what if this wasn&#39;t the first time?What if this is just the first timethat the so-and-sos had been caught?What if it had happened before? How would I find out?Now, the previous two examples I gavewere to do with construction sector corruption, okay?And I have the privilege at this timeto lead the Joint Consultative Council, which is a not-for-profit.We&#39;re at jcc.org.tt, and we have the — we are the leadersin the struggle to produce a new public procurement systemabout how public money is transacted.So those of you interested in finding out more about it,or joining us or signing up on any of our petitions, please get involved.
时间： 9:30
zh-cn:我想转到另外一个相关的话题，我个人已进行超过三年半的一项私人活动。这项活动是为了CL Financial疏困的透明化和问责制。CL Financial 是加勒比海有史以来最大的金融保险公司不是吗？如果不去追究细节部分，据说它破产了。—我很小心的使用措辞—但是据说在2009年1月它破产了。才快要4年而已。真是前所未有的慷慨。而你必须对这些人保有怀疑，前所未有的慷慨。—我很小心的使用这样的措辞。政府签署文件，立下书面承诺，要帮债权人还债。我可以负责任的说，从来没有一个国家有这样做过。我们试着去了解它，因为我们不知道背景。有人告诉我们这就像华尔街。但不见得。特立尼达和多巴哥就像是一个有着不同物理或生物学定律的地方，它和任何地方都不一样。（掌声）它和任何地方都不一样。它和任何地方都不一样。这里就是这里，其它地方就是其它地方。好吗？我是认真的。听着，金援疏困在华尔街出现过。在伦敦出现过。在欧洲出现过。在非洲，也出现过。在尼日利亚，六家主要商业银行同时倒闭。啊？把尼日利亚的经验和我们的放在一起很有趣。他们是如何处理的，而且他们的处理方式比我们的还更好。世界上没有一个地方，让所有债权人获得清偿，而超过他们的法定权利应得。只有这里例外。那么如此慷慨的理由是什么呢？我们的政府有那么慷慨吗？或许有。我们来看看。我们仔细看看。
en:But I&#39;m going to segue to another thing that relates,because one of my private campaigns I&#39;ve been conductingfor over three and a half yearsis for transparency and accountabilityaround the bailout of CL Financial.CL Financial is the Caribbean&#39;s largest ever conglomerate, okay?And without getting into all of the details,it is said to have collapsed — I&#39;m using my words very carefully —it&#39;s said to have collapsed in January of &#39;09,which is just coming up to nearly four years.In an unprecedented fit of generosity —and you have to be very suspicious about these people —in an unprecedented — and I&#39;m using that word carefully —unprecedented fit of generosity, the government of the daysigned, made a written commitment, to repay all of the creditors.And I can tell you without fear of contradictionthat hasn&#39;t happened anywhere else on the planet.Let&#39;s understand, because we lack context.People are telling us it&#39;s just like Wall Street. It&#39;s not just like Wall Street.Trinidad and Tobago is like a place with different laws of physics or biology or something.It&#39;s not just like anywhere. (Applause)It&#39;s not just like anywhere. It&#39;s not just like anywhere.Here is here, and out there is out there. Okay?I&#39;m serious now.Listen. They&#39;ve had bailouts on Wall Street.They&#39;ve had bailouts in London.They&#39;ve had bailouts in Europe.In Africa, they&#39;ve had bailouts. In Nigeria, six of the majorcommercial banks collapsed at the same time as ours, eh?It&#39;s interesting to parallel how the Nigerian experience has —how they&#39;ve treated it, and they&#39;ve treated itvery well compared to us.Nowhere on the planethave all the creditors been bailed outin excess of what their statutory entitlements were.Only here. So what was the reason for the generosity?Is our government that generous? And maybe they are.Let&#39;s look at it. Let&#39;s look into it.
时间：11:19
zh-cn:所以我开始挖掘，写作，如此之类的。我的作品可以被找到，在AfraRaymond.com。大家可以搜我的名字。我的博客是非营利的。没有博客名人那样受欢迎啦，但是不妨看一下啦。（笑声）但重点是34节的惨痛教训，使国会堕落的阴谋，八月发生的惨痛教训，当我们九月应该去庆祝独立日的时候，我强迫自己去反省，重新审视我的底线，重新检视我的作品，我写过的那些东西。以及为了知道事情的真相，而和政府做的妥协。就像我们在特立尼达和多巴哥所说的，那些人的真实身份是谁？事情的真相是什么？可以吗？我们要重新审视这些。
en:So I started digging and writing and so and so on,and that work can be found, my personal workcan be found at AfraRaymond.com, which is my name.It&#39;s a not-for-profit blog that I run.Not as popular as some of the other people, but there you go.(Laughter)But the point is that the bitter experience of Section 34,that plot to pervert Parliament, that bitter experiencethat took place in August,when we were supposed to be celebrating our independence,going into September, forced me to check myselfand recalculate my bearings,and to go back into some of the work, some of the stuff I&#39;d writtenand some of the exchanges I&#39;d had with the officialsto see what was really what.As we say in Trinidad and Tobago, who is who and what is what?Okay? We want to try to recalculate.
时间：12:06
zh-cn:我向财政部提交了信息自由申请，今年5月的时候。财政部是附近那栋大楼。这是另外一个背景。听说财政部，需要规范于信息自由法。我将用一个发生过的事例，告诉你是不是真的是这样。我们现在所处的中央银行，是不受信息自由法规范的。所以，实际上你们无权质疑他们任何事情。他们不用回答任何问题。从1999年法律就是这样。
en:And I made a Freedom of Information applicationin May this year to the Ministry of Finance.The Ministry of Finance is the next tower over.This is the other context.The Ministry of Finance, we are told,is subject to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.I&#39;m going to take you through a worked example of whether that&#39;s really so.The Central Bank in which we stand this morningis immune from the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.So in fact, you can&#39;t ask them anything,and they don&#39;t have to answer anything.That is the law since 1999.
时间：12:39
zh-cn:但我极力争取，问了四个问题。问答的精简版，我提供给你们看看。那样你们就能了解，就像我说的，我们的处境如何。这里不像别的任何地方。
en:So I plunged into this struggle, and I asked four questions.And I&#39;ll relate the questions to you in the short form with the reply,so you could understand, as I said, where we are.Here is not like anywhere else.
时间：12:50
zh-cn:第一个问题：我要求看CL Financi的账目。如果你们不能公布帐目的话，那财政部在发表声明，通过法新法和发表演讲，做这些事情的时候，他的依据是什么呢？这很好笑：我只是想要他现在喝的东西，不管是什么但他们回信说：你真正的意思是什么？他们就抛出一个问题来回避我的问题。
en:Question number one:I asked to see the accounts of CL Financial,and if you can&#39;t show me the accounts —the Minister of Finance is making statements,passing new laws and giving speeches and so on.What are the figures he&#39;s relying on?It&#39;s like that joke: I want whatever he&#39;s drinking.And they wrote back and said to me,well what do you really mean?So they hit my question with a question.
时间：13:13
zh-cn:第二个问题：我想知道债权人是谁？谁会获得赔偿？让我暂停一下，我要跟各位指出，我们的钱，有240亿花在这里。大概是35亿美金。来自一个小小的加勒比海国家。虽然曾经资源丰富。了解吗？所以我问了这个问题。35亿美金谁拿了？
en:Second point: I want to seewho are the creditors of the group who have been repaid?Let me pause here to point out to you allthat 24 billion dollars of our money has been spent on this.That is about three and a half billion U.S. dollarscoming out of a small — we used to be resource-rich —Caribbean country. Okay?And I asked the question,who was getting that three and a half billion dollars?
时间：13:40
zh-cn:我还想再停一下，交待另一个背景。借助上下文，我们可以更好的理解这件事情。现在我要说到政府里某个特定的人。他的名字不重要。这个人依靠信息自由法案，成就他的事业。让他的政治生涯更进一步。好吗？他的名字不重要。我不会强调它。我要讲一个重点。重点是，那个人可以利用信息自由法案，去提升他的政治生涯!最广为人知的事件，就是我们后来称为“秘密奖学金丑闻”。政府的钱有6000万拨给了一系列的奖学基金，而这些奖学基金根本没有被宣传，如此之类的。他得以进入法庭，运用议会法案，信息自由法案，来发布这一信息。我觉得他真的很高明。厉害！但是各位请看，问题在于：如果我们我们能运用信息自由法，通过司法途径，迫使6000万美金流向得以公开，那我们迫使公开240亿的流向也是正确和适当的。看到吗？但财政部它的常务秘书回复我说，那些信息享有豁免权。看到了吗？这就是我们现在面对的，不是吗？
en:And I want to pause again to bring up context,because context helps us to get clarity understanding this thing.There&#39;s a particular individual who is in the government now.The name of the person doesn&#39;t matter.And that person made a careerout of using the Freedom of Information Actto advance his political cause.Okay? His name isn&#39;t important.I wouldn&#39;t dignify it. I&#39;m on a point.The point is, that person made a career out of usingthe Freedom of Information Act to advance his cause.And the most famous casewas what we came to call the Secret Scholarship Scandal,where in fact there was about 60 million dollars in government moneythat had been dispersed in a series of scholarships,and the scholarships hadn&#39;t been advertised, and so and so on and so on.And he was able to get the court, using that act of Parliament,Freedom of Information Act,to release the information,and I thought that was excellent.Fantastic.But you see, the question is this:If it&#39;s right and proper for us to use the Freedom of Information Actand to use the courtto force a disclosure about 60 million dollars in public money,it must be right and properfor us to force a disclosure about 24 billion dollars.You see? But the Ministry of Finance,the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance,wrote me and said to me, that information is exempt too.You see? This is what we&#39;re dealing with, okay?
时间：15:05
zh-cn:第三个问题：我也问到，我问财政部长他们有没有按照”公务人员操守法案”（Public Life Act）归档，我们有这样一个法案，它是一个架构，用来保护国家利益。公务人员要求归档，对他们有的资产和负债进行申报。当然我发现他们并没有这么做。实际上财务部长也没有要求他们这么做。所以这就是我们面对的真实情况。我们身处一个对操守，责任心和透明化连基本的底线都被舍弃的环境里。我使用合法的，请求的语气去问问题的。但是问题被忽视了。
en:The third thing I will tell youis that I also askedfor the directors of CL Financial,whether in fact they were making filings under our Integrity in Public Life Act.We have an Integrity in Public Life Actas part of our framework supposed to safeguard the nation&#39;s interest.And public officials are supposed to fileto say what it is they have in terms of assets and liabilities.And of course I&#39;ve since discovered that they&#39;re not filing,and in fact the Minister of Finance has not even asked them to file.So here we have it. We have a situation wherethe basic safeguards of integrity and accountabilityand transparency have all been discarded.I&#39;ve asked the question in the legal and required fashion.It&#39;s been ignored.
时间：15:55
zh-cn:这些事情激励我们为34节继续斗争。我们需要继续为之努力。我们不能忘记。我把它定义为国家历史上最大的支出。在政府贪腐问题上这也是最瞩目的案例。
en:The sort of thing that motivated us around Section 34,we need to continue to work on that. We can&#39;t forget it.I have defined this as the single largest expenditure in the country&#39;s history.It&#39;s also the single largest exampleof public corruption according to this equation.
时间：16:12
zh-cn:这是我了解到的事实。当公共财产的支出，没有责任明确，不透明，那它和贪腐是划等号的。不管你是在俄罗斯，尼日尼亚，还是阿拉斯加。它永远和贪腐划等划，这是我们要面对的。
en:And this is my reality check.Where you have an expenditure of public moneyand it is without accountabilityand it&#39;s without transparency,it will always be equal to corruption,whether you&#39;re in Russia or Nigeria or Alaska,it will always be equal to corruption, and that is what we are dealing with here.
时间：16:31
zh-cn:我要继续努力，为财政部的这类事件坚持抗争，直到获得解决。即使需要法庭相见也在所不辞。我们会坚持到底。我们会在JCC里继续工作。
en:I&#39;m going to continue the workto press on, to get some resolutionof those matters at the Ministry of Finance.If it is I have to go to court personally, I will do that.We will continue to press on.We will continue to work within JCC.
时间：16:45
zh-cn:但我想从刚才的背景里跳出来，讲一些另外的事情，是关于一个国际案例。记者[Heather] Brooke 告诉我们她与政府部门贪腐的斗争。她介绍我这个网站，Alaveteli.com这个网站让我们有一个公开的数据库，关于信息自由应用的数据库。我们可以互相交流。我可以看到你的诉求。你们可以看到我的诉求以及我得到的回应，我们可以一起为之努力。我们需要建立一个共同的数据库，以及达成共识，下一步的目标在哪里。我们需要意识进一步的觉醒。
en:But I want to step back from the Trinidad and Tobago contextand bring something new to the tablein terms of an international example.We had the journalist [Heather] Brooke speakingabout her battle against government corruption,and she introduced me to this website, Alaveteli.com.And Alaveteli.com is a way for us to have an open databasefor Freedom of Information applications,and speak with each other.I could see what you&#39;re applying for.You could see what I applied for and what replies I got.We can work on it together. We need to build a collective databaseand a collective understanding of where we are to go to the next point.We need to increase the consciousness.
时间：17:26
zh-cn:我想说的最后一件事情，跟这个有关。它是一个很可爱的印度网站：IPaidABribe.com。他们在世界各国都有分支，我们也应该参与其中，这很重要。IPaidABribe.com 真的很棒，值得我们去了解看看。
en:The final thing I want to say is in relation to this one,which is a lovely website from Indiacalled IPaidABribe.com.They have international branches,and it&#39;s important for us to tune into this one.IPaidABribe.com is really important,a good one to log on to and see.
时间：17:43
zh-cn:我要在这里暂停一下。我要你们拿出自己的勇气。解除第一个迷思。它的确是犯罪。解除第二个迷思。这是一件大事。一件很严重的事。它是一种经济犯罪。让我们继续一起努力，让这一状况得到改善。让我们的社会持续稳定地发展下去。谢谢你们！
en:I&#39;m going to pause there. I&#39;m going to ask you for your courage.Discard the first myth; it is a crime.Discard the second myth; it is a big thing.It&#39;s a huge problem. It&#39;s an economic crime.And let us continue working togetherto betterment in this situation,stability and sustainability in our society. Thank you.
