时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我在佛罗里达州的奥兰多市长大我是航空工程师的儿子阿波罗计划与我的生活息息相关我们不是在后院里看着发射器就是开上好几个小时车到开普敦镇去看它显然，空间科学对我产生了深刻的影响但最让我印象深刻的是这背后的工程学
en:So I grew up in Orlando, Florida.I was the son of an aerospace engineer.I lived and breathed the Apollo program.We either saw the launchesfrom our backyardor we saw it by drivingin the hour over to the Cape.I was impressed by, obviously,space and everything about it,but I was most impressedby the engineering that went into it.
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:你看到的在我身后的壮观景象是一幅从国际空间站拍的图片它展示了我们星球的一部分罕见而且极少被研究的一部分几乎从未被探索的一个地方这一部分被称为平流层
en:Behind me you see an amazing view,a picture that was takenfrom the International Space Station,and it shows a portion of our planetthat&#39;s rarely seen and rarely studiedand almost never explored.That place is called the stratosphere.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:如果你从地面出发一直往上往上往上周围会变得愈来愈冷直到你进入平流层接下来神奇的事情发生了变冷的速度变慢了许多，然后开始暖和起来然后越来越暖和直到你几乎不需要任何保护措施也能生存大约到达了零度接下来你会愈来愈冷愈来愈冷这就是平流层的顶部了这是我们这个星球极少有人到达的地方之一大多数情况下，当它被造访时，那是宇航员们乘坐着火箭以大约是音速数倍的速度穿过它宇航员在上升时停留了几秒钟还有就是他们返航时，坐着烧成火球的返回舱回到地面上
en:If you start on the planetand you go up and up and up,it gets colder and colder and colder,until you reach the beginningof the stratosphere,and then an amazing thing happens.It gets colder at a much slower rate,and then it starts warming up,and then it gets warmer and warmeruntil the point where you canalmost survive without any protection,about zero degrees,and then you end upgetting colder and colder,and that&#39;s the top of the stratosphere.It is one of the least accessibleplaces on our planet.Most often, when it&#39;s visited,it&#39;s by astronautswho are blazing up at itat probably several timesthe speed of sound,and they get a few seconds on the way up,and then they get this blazingball of fire coming back in,on the way back in.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:但我想问的问题是，是否有可能在平流层逗留？是否有可能去体验平流层？是否有可能去探索平流层？
en:But the question I asked is, is itpossible to linger in the stratosphere?Is it possible to experiencethe stratosphere?Is it possible to explorethe stratosphere?
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:我用我最喜欢的搜索引擎来研究这个问题研究了大约有一年然后我根据一个朋友的参考意见给Taber MacCallum打了一通吓人的电话他在Paragon空间发展公司工作我问了他这个问题：有没有可能建造一个去平流层的系统？他回答说， “可以。”此后大约过了三年，我们开始着手筹划在去年的十月24号穿着这套设备我从地面出发我在一个气球中上升到离地135,890英尺的高度但谁关心数字呢？
en:I studied this usingmy favorite search enginefor quite a while, about a year,and then I made a scary phone call.It was a reference from a friend of mineto call Taber MacCallumfrom Paragon SpaceDevelopment Corporation,and I asked him the question:is it possible to builda system to go into the stratosphere?And he said it was.And after a period of about three years,we proceeded to do just that.And on October 24 of last year,in this suit,I started on the ground,I went up in a balloon to 135,890 feet —but who&#39;s counting?
时间： 2:40
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:回地球的速度高达822公里每小时我下降了四分27秒当我到达10，000英尺，我打开降落伞然后在地面着陆
en:Came back to Earthat speeds of up to 822 miles an hour.It was a four-minuteand 27-second descent.And when I got to 10,000 feet,I opened a parachute and I landed.
时间： 2:57
zh-cn:（鼓掌喝彩）
en:(Applause)
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:但这是一次关于科学的演讲, 关于工程技术的演讲这次体验让我感到不可思议的是Taber说，我们可以制作一套适用于平流层的装备，不止如此，明天过来让我们和制作出装备的小组的核心人员深入探讨。他们做了一些我认为很重要的事情，他们参考了潜水器的设计。在潜水器里，有一个自携装置。你所需要的一切都有。你有一个氧气瓶。你有潜水服。你有可视装置。潜水装置就是我们想要的系统，我们要把一种类似的装置发射到平流层去。
en:But this is really a science talk,and it&#39;s really an engineering talk,and what was amazing to meabout that experienceis that Taber said, yes, I thinkwe can build a stratospheric suit,and more than that, come down tomorrowand let&#39;s talk to the teamthat formed the core of the groupthat actually built it.And they did somethingwhich I think is important,which is they tookthe analogy of scuba diving.So in scuba diving,you have a self-contained system.You have everythingthat you could ever need.You have a scuba tank.You have a wetsuit.You have visibility.And that scuba is exactly this system,and we&#39;re going to launch itinto the stratosphere.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:三年研究后，这是我们的改良装置。ILC Dover为我们制作了一套令人惊叹的服装装置。ILC Dover公司提供了阿波罗计划的所有保护套装和所有外太空活动的保护套装他们从来不向私人出售，只和政府打交道，但他们向我提供了一套，我对此很是感激。在这里我们有一个降落伞包。安全起见。我们团队里的人都知道我有妻子和两个很小的孩子 —一个十岁另一个十五岁 ——我想平安地回来。有一个主降落伞包和一个备用降落伞包，如果我什么都不做（译注：失去意识或行为能力），备用降落伞包将会被自动启用装置打开。这套保护服会为我御寒。前面的部分有高温保护装置。它会加热环绕我身体的水。它有两个冗余的氧气瓶。即使我在这套保护服上弄出一个四分之一英寸的小孔，当然这个几率很小，这套装置依然能在低压环境中保护我。
en:Three years later, this is what we have.We&#39;ve got an amazing suitthat was made by ILC Dover.ILC Dover was the companythat made all of the Apollo suitsand all of the extravehicularactivity suits.They had never sold a suit commercially,only to the government,but they sold one to me,which I am very grateful for.Up here we have a parachute.This was all about safety.Everyone on the team knewthat I have a wifeand two small children —10 and 15 —and I wanted to come back safely.So there&#39;s a main parachuteand a reserve parachute,and if I do nothing,the reserve parachute is going to openbecause of an automatic opening device.The suit itselfcan protect me from the cold.This area in the front herehas thermal protection.It will actually heat waterthat will wrap around my body.It has two redundant oxygen tanks.Even if I was to geta quarter-inch hole in this suit,which is extremely unlikely,this system would still protect mefrom the low pressure of space.
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:这套系统主要的优点是重量很轻，复杂性相对教低。整套系统重500磅，如果跟其它穿越平流层的装备比的话，别人使用的是太空舱。制作太空舱需要极其复杂的工艺，重量约为3000磅，要让3000磅的装置升到135,000英尺，那是我的目标高度，需要一个4.5到5千万立方英尺的气球。而整个系统加我在内只有500磅，我们可以用一个小五倍的气球代替，这样我们就可以用一个简便多了的发射系统不需要那些大气球需要的复杂装备。
en:The main advantage of this systemis weight and complexity.So the system weighs about 500 pounds,and if you compare it to the other attemptrecently to go up in the stratosphere,they used a capsule.And to do a capsule, there&#39;s an amazingamount of complexity that goes into it,and it weighed about 3,000 pounds,and to raise 3,000 poundsto an altitude of 135,000 feet,which was my target altitude,it would have taken a balloonthat was 45 to 50 million cubic feet.Because I only weighed500 pounds in this system,we could do it with a balloonthat was five times smaller than that,and that allowed us to use a launch systemthat was dramatically simplerthan what needs to be donefor a much larger balloon.
时间： 5:44
zh-cn:现在，我带你们看看10月24日的罗斯威尔市，在新墨西哥州。我们有一个在深夜工作的伟大的团队。这就是保护服。再次说明，这是用抓钩机吊起来的，你们马上会再见到，我想放一段发射现场的视频。罗斯威尔是发射气球的好场所，更是一个降落伞降落的绝佳场所，尤其是你要从70英里的高空降落时。背景里的是一辆装氢气的卡车。天黑了。我已经花了一个半小时调整呼吸。然后你看到的是装备保护服的过程。整个过程用了一个小时。宇航员乘坐空调专车去发射点但我是被抓钩机吊着送去的。
en:So with that, I want to take youto Roswell, New Mexico, on October 24.We had an amazing teamthat got up in the middle of the night.And here&#39;s the suit.Again, this is using the front loaderthat you&#39;ll see in a second,and I want to play you a videoof the actual launch.Roswell&#39;s a great placeto launch balloons,but it&#39;s a fantastic placeto land under a parachute,especially when you&#39;re going to land70 miles away from the place you started.That&#39;s a helium truck in the background.It&#39;s darkness.I&#39;ve already spent about an hourand a half pre-breathing.And then here you see the suit going on.It takes about an hour to get the suit on.Astronauts get this really niceair-conditioned vanto go to the launch pad,but I got a front loader.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:你可以看见最上面。你可以看见那上面的气球。里面填充的是氢气。这是Dave和联邦航空管理局在帮我清出来15英里的飞行空间。现在我们升空了。
en:You can see the top.You can see the balloon up there.That&#39;s where the helium is.This is Dave clearing the airspacewith the FAA for 15 miles.And there we go.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:这是我在挥动我的左手。我挥动左手的原因是挥动右手表示紧急刹停。
en:That&#39;s me waving with my left hand.The reason I&#39;m waving with my left handis because on the right handis the emergency cutaway.
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:05
zh-cn:我的团队禁止我用我的右手。向上的旅途十分美妙。有点像反过来播放的谷歌地图。
en:My team forbade mefrom using my right hand.So the trip up is beautiful.It&#39;s kind of like Google Earth in reverse.
时间： 7:13
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:16
zh-cn:向上花了两个小时七分钟，那是最平静的两小时七分钟。大多时间我试着放松。我的心率极其缓慢我尽可能少用氧气。你可以在背景里看到地面建筑现在还是相对比较大的，你可以看见我一直在上升。
en:It took two hoursand seven minutes to go up,and it was the most peacefultwo hours and seven minutes.I was mostly trying to relax.My heart rate was very lowand I was trying not to usevery much oxygen.You can see how the fieldsin the backgroundare relatively big at this point,and you can see me going up and up.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:这里十分有趣，你看，我在机场的正上方，大约50,000英尺高，但马上我就要进入平流层风带那里风的时速超过120英里。这是我的飞行指导员告诉我我比任何用气球上去的人到得更高，我离自由落体点还有4,000英尺。终于抵达了最终的高度你可以看见太空中的暗处，地球的曲线，底下的脆弱的星球。当时正在脑海中演练紧急情况处理流程。如果有意外发生，我希望能稳妥应对。在这里的我想做的主要事情是稳稳当当地降落在目的地。
en:It&#39;s interesting here,because if you look,I&#39;m right over the airport,and I&#39;m probably at 50,000 feet,but immediately I&#39;m about to gointo a stratospheric windof over 120 miles an hour.This is my flight director telling methat I had just gone higherthan anybody elsehad ever gone in a balloon,and I was about 4,000 feet from release.This is what it looks like.You can see the darkness of space,the curvature of the Earth,the fragile planet below.I&#39;m practicing my emergency proceduresmentally right now.If anything goes wrong,I want to be ready.And the main thing that I want to do hereis to have a release and falland stay completely stable.
时间： 8:34
zh-cn:（视频）地面控制台。所有人都准备好了吗？五！四！三！二！一！
en:(Video) Ground control. Everyone ready?Five. Four. Three. Two. One.
时间： 8:58
zh-cn:现在飘过去的是气球，已经充好气了。现在你看到的是减速伞，我马上会介绍，因为这非常重要。这是第二次看到气球现在，我马上要以音速飞行。我对音速没有什么好描述的，很快我就到达了所能达到的最高速，时速822英里。
en:Alan Eustace: There&#39;s the balloongoing by, fully inflated at this point.And there you can see a drogue parachute,which I&#39;ll demonstrate in just a second,because that&#39;s really important.There&#39;s the balloongoing by a second time.Right now, I&#39;m aboutat the speed of sound.There&#39;s nothing for me to tellit&#39;s the speed of sound,and very soon I will actually beas fast as I ever get,822 miles an hour.
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:（视频）地面控制台：我们的通信中断了
en:(Video) Ground control: We lost the data.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:现在我开始下降了、你们能看见降落伞在这边出现。那时，我非常开心降落伞打开了。我以为我是唯一一个觉得开心的人，但我发现任务控制中心也非常开心。最妙的时刻是我打开降落伞时 —我的好朋友，Blikkies，我的降落伞教练，他乘坐另一架飞机，他真的在机上跳下来然后在我身旁降落。他是我下降过程的军师。这是我的降落过程，更准确的说是撞击地面的过程。
en:AE: So now I&#39;m down low right nowand you can basically seethe parachute come out right there.At this point, I&#39;m very happythat there&#39;s a parachute out.I thought I was the only one happy,but it turns out mission controlwas really happy as well.The really nice thing about thisis the moment I opened —I had a close of friend of mine,Blikkies, my parachute guy.He flew in another airplane,and he actually jumped outand landed right next to me.He was my wingman on the descent.This is my landing, but it&#39;s probably moreproperly called a crash.
时间：10:29
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:34
zh-cn:我非常不愿意承认，这是我最最槽糕的降落。
en:I hate to admit it, but this wasn&#39;teven close to my worst landing.
时间：10:37
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:40
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：10:59
zh-cn:（视频）男人：你好吗？
en:(Video) Man: How are you doing?
时间：11:00
zh-cn:AE：你好啊！棒极了。
en:AE: Hi there!Yay.
时间：11:07
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:09
zh-cn:我想告诉你们一件事情你可能没有在视频里看过，但是整件事情中最重要的部分是刚刚脱离时和接下来的十几秒钟。我们尝试用了降速伞，降速伞是帮助我平稳下降的。我马上要给你展示其中一个。如果你们中有人试过串联跳伞，你可能用过这个。但还有一个问题当你自由落体是，你处于零重力。所以这个东西就很容易绕着你打转。在你反应过来之前，就会被缠住或者打起转来，如果你晚一点打开减速伞，这时候你就会以800英里的时速下降，这东西就会自己被破坏变得毫无用处。但联合降落伞科技的人想出这种办法，翻转看起来是这样的，但我把它拉出来以后。它形成了一个管道。这个管道非常坚固让你可以把减速伞包裹在上面，它就无法缠扰你了。这避免了非常危险的潜在问题。
en:So I want to tell you one thingthat you might not have seenin that video,but one of the most critical partsof the entire thing was the releaseand what happens right after you release.And what we tried to do was usesomething called a drogue parachute,and a drogue parachutewas there to stabilize me.And I&#39;ll show you one of those right now.If any of you have evergone tandem skydiving,you probably used one of these.But the problem with one of these thingsis right when you release,you&#39;re in zero gravity.So it&#39;s very easy for thisto just turn right around you.And before you know it,you can be tangled up or spinning,or you can release this drogue late,in which case what happensis you&#39;re going down at 800 miles an hour,and this thing is going to destroy itselfand not be very useful.But the guys at United ParachuteTechnologies came up with this idea,and it was a roll that looks like that,but watch what happens when I pull it out.It&#39;s forming a pipe.This pipe is so solidthat you can take this drogue parachuteand wrap it around,and there&#39;s no wayit will ever tangle with you.And that preventeda very serious potential problem.
时间：12:30
zh-cn:当有一个梦幻的团队是没有事情是不可能的。队伍的核心是20个成员他们在这上面花了三年，他们非常了不起。人们问我整件事情最美妙的部分在哪，那是与最好的专业人员共事的在气象学，热气球和降落伞科技共事的机会还有环境系统和高空用药。那太美妙了。和他们一起共事是每个工程师梦想。同时我想感谢在谷歌的朋友，感谢你们对我努力成果的支持和在我不在的时间里为我分担。还有另一个我想致谢的团队，我的家庭。你们真棒。
en:So nothing is possiblewithout an amazing team of people.The core of this was about 20 peoplethat worked on this for the three years,and they were incredible.People asked me what the best partof this whole thing was,and it was a chanceto work with the best expertsin meteorology and ballooningand parachute technologyand environmental systemsand high altitude medicine.It was fantastic. It&#39;s an engineer&#39;s dreamto work with that group of people.And I also at the same timewanted to thank my friends at Google,both for supporting me during this effortand also covering for mein the times that I was away.But there&#39;s one other groupI wanted to thank, and that&#39;s my family.Yay.
时间：13:12
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：13:18
zh-cn:我会持续不断的告诉他们科学的安全性，但他们一点也不会听进去。这对他们来说太难了，我妻子容忍下来的唯一一个原因是每次当我完成测试（共250项）测试后回到家都非常开心，她不想让我失去这份快乐。我想以一个故事收场。我的15岁的女儿Katelyn, 和我在车里，我们沿着路开，她坐在那她想到一个主意，她说，“爸爸，我有一个主意。”我听了她的主意然后说，“Katelyn,这是不可能的。”她看着我她说，“爸爸，在你做到这件事情之后，还有什么事情可以被你称作不可能的？“我大笑，然后我说，”好的，这不是不可能的，只是非常，非常的困难。”然后我停顿了一秒，接着说，“Katelyn,或许并不是不可能，甚至也不是难，而只是因为我不知道怎么实现它。”
en:I would constantly give them speechesabout the safety of technology,and they weren&#39;t hearing any of it.It was super hard on them,and the only reasonthat my wife put up with itwas because I came back incredibly happyafter each of the 250 tests,and she didn&#39;t wantto take that away from me.So I want to close with a story.My daughter Katelyn, my 15-year-old,she and I were in the car,and we were driving down the road,and she was sitting there,and she had this idea, and she goes,&quot;Dad, I&#39;ve got this idea.&quot;And so I listened to her ideaand I said, &quot;Katelyn, that&#39;s impossible.&quot;And she looks at meand she goes, &quot;Dad,after what you just did,how can you call anything impossible?&quot;And I laughed, and I said,&quot;OK, it&#39;s not impossible,it&#39;s just very, very hard.&quot;And then I paused for a second,and I said, &quot;Katelyn,it may not be impossible,it may not even be very, very hard,it&#39;s just that I don&#39;t know how to do it.&quot;
时间：14:21
zh-cn:谢谢你们
en:Thank you.
时间：14:22
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
