时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我在阿富汗21年了为红十字会工作我是一个理疗医师我的工作就是制作义肢 —当然 不完全是这样我们做的比这多得多我们帮助病患那些阿富汗的残疾人先恢复肢体功能然后重返社会这非常符合逻辑但事情并非一直如此常年以来 我们给他们的只是义肢而已我们花了许多年才让这个项目取得现在的成果
en:I&#39;ve been in Afghanistan for 21 years.I work for the Red Crossand I&#39;m a physical therapist.My job is to make arms and legs —well it&#39;s not completely true.We do more than that.We provide the patients,the Afghan disabled,first with the physical rehabilitationthen with the social reintegration.It&#39;s a very logical plan,but it was not always like this.For many years, we were just providing themwith artificial limbs.It took quite many yearsfor the program to become what it is now.
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:今天我想讲一个故事关于一个巨大变化的故事以及实现这变化的人他们的故事1990年我到了阿富汗为一家收治战争伤员的医院工作后来 医院不仅收治战争伤员还收治其他各种病患我同时也在矫形中心工作这里就是我们制作义肢的地方当时我发现自己处于一种尴尬的境地我不确定自己是否适合这份工作要学的东西太多了我对太多事情不了解了但这是一份很棒的工作但是随着战事越来越激烈肢体复健项目被搁置了我们要忙许多其他的事情于是矫形中心被关闭了因为人们认为它不是重中之重这是种奇怪的感觉每次我做这个演讲这不是第一次了 但这是一种情感从过去就开始了21年了这种感觉还在
en:Today, I would like to tell you a story,the story of a big change,and the story of the peoplewho made this change possible.I arrived in Afghanistanin 1990to work in a hospitalfor war victims.And then, not only for war victims,but it was for any kind of patient.I was also workingin the orthopedic center, we call it.This is the place where we make the legs.At that timeI found myselfin a strange situation.I felt not quite readyfor that job.There was so much to learn.There were so many things new to me.But it was a terrific job.But as soon as the fighting intensified,the physical rehabilitation was suspended.There were many other things to do.So the orthopedic center was closedbecause physical rehabilitationwas not considered a priority.It was a strange sensation.Anyway, you know every time I make this speech —it&#39;s not the first time — but it&#39;s an emotion.It&#39;s something that comes out from the past.It&#39;s 21 years,but they are still all there.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:1992年圣战者组织占领了整个阿富汗矫形中心被关闭了我被分配去帮助无家可归的人和因战争流离失所的人但有一天 一件事情发生了我从一个大批发放食物的清真寺回来那里收容的十几个人身体状况都很糟糕我当时正开着车 - 我想回家。你知道吗，当你想要忘记或不想面对一些事情的时候你只会想回家 把自己关在房间里说：“我受够了。”一颗炸弹在距我的车不远的地方爆炸了虽然没炸到我 但还是传来了一声巨响街上的人瞬间消失了车辆也消失了我绻下身唯一一个留在路中间的是一个坐着轮椅的男子他正慌忙地想要移开原地
en:Anyway, in 1992,the Mujahideen took all Afghanistan.And the orthopedic center was closed.I was assigned to work for the homeless,for the internally displaced people.But one day, something happened.I was coming backfrom a big food distribution in a mosquewhere tens and tens of peoplewere squatting in terrible conditions.I wanted to go home. I was driving.You know, when you want to forget,you don&#39;t want to see things,so you just want to go to your room, to lock yourself insideand say, &quot;That&#39;s enough.&quot;A bomb fell not far from my car —well, far enough, but big noise.And everybody disappeared from the street.The cars disappeared as well.I ducked.And only one figureremained in the middle of the road.It was a man in a wheelchairdesperately trying to move away.
时间： 3:33
zh-cn:我不是一个非常勇敢的人我承认但是 我不能就这么丢下他不管于是 我停了车上前去帮他这个人没有腿只有一只手臂他身后有一个孩子 他的儿子脸蛋通红正使劲推着父亲我把他带到一个安全的地方然后我问：“你们这时候在大街上干什么？”“我在工作。” 他说我觉得奇怪 做什么工作？接着我问了一个更加愚蠢的问题：“你怎么没有义肢呢？怎么没有假腿呢？”他说：“红十字会关门了。”我想都没想就对他说：“明天你过来，我们会给你一双义肢。”这名叫麦哈麦得的男子和他的孩子 拉菲 便走了结果 我对自己说：“天啊，我说的是什么胡话？中心关闭了，里面根本没有人。说不定连机器都是坏的。谁来给他做义肢啊？”我希望他不会过来这就是那段战火纷飞日子里喀布尔的街道于是我说：“那我就给他点钱。”
en:Well I&#39;m not a particularly brave person,I have to confess it,but I could not just ignore him.So I stopped the carand I went to help.The man was without legsand only with one arm.Behind him there was a child, his son,red in the facein an effort to push the father.So I took him into a safe place.And I ask, &quot;What are you doing out in the streetin this situation?&quot;&quot;I work,&quot; he said.I wondered, what work?And then I ask an even more stupid question:&quot;Why don&#39;t you have the prostheses?Why don&#39;t you have the artificial legs?&quot;And he said, &quot;The Red Cross has closed.&quot;Well without thinking, I told him&quot;Come tomorrow.We will provide you with a pair of legs.&quot;The man, his name was Mahmoud,and the child, whose name was Rafi, left.And then I said, &quot;Oh, my God. What did I say?The center is closed,no staff around.Maybe the machinery is broken.Who is going to make the legs for him?&quot;So I hoped that he would not come.This is the streets of Kabulin those days.So I said, &quot;Well I will give him some money.&quot;
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:第二天我到了矫形中心我嘱咐了门卫几句我准备告诉他：“听着， 如果明天有一个这个模样的人过来，你就告诉他，他弄错了。我们没有办法帮助他。然后给他一些钱。”但是 麦哈麦得和他的儿子已经等在那里了还不止他们有十五到二十个人残疾人也等在那里一些工作人员也在场其中还有我的助手纳吉木丁门卫告诉我“他们每天都来看中心是否开门。”我说：“不行。我们必须离开。不能留在这里。”轰炸还在进行中 虽然不是很近 但是你仍然可以听到爆炸声“我们不能留在这里，太危险了。保命要紧。”但纳吉木丁对我说：“听着，我们现在在这里。至少，我们可以开始修理这些人坏了的义肢，然后也许可以为麦哈麦得这样的人做点什么。”我说：“不行，我们不能这么做。太危险了。我们还有更重要的事情要忙。”但他们坚持这么做二十个人就这么站在你面前 看着你等着你做出决定
en:And so the following day,I went to the orthopedic center.And I spoke with a gatekeeper.I was ready to tell him,&quot;Listen, if someone such-and-such comes tomorrow,please tell him that it was a mistake.Nothing can be done.Give him some money.&quot;But Mahmoud and his son were already there.And they were not alone.There were 15, maybe 20, people like him waiting.And there was some staff too.Among them there was my right-hand man,Najmuddin.And the gatekeeper told me,&quot;They come everyday to see if the center will open.&quot;I said, &quot;No.We have to go away. We cannot stay here.&quot;They were bombing — not very close — but you could hear the noise of the bombs.So, &quot;We cannot stay here, it&#39;s dangerous.It&#39;s not a priority.&quot;But Najmuddin told me, &quot;Listen now, we&#39;re here.&quot;At least we can start repairing the prostheses, the broken prostheses of the peopleand maybe try to do somethingfor people like Mahmoud.&quot;I said, &quot;No, please. We cannot do that.It&#39;s really dangerous.We have other things to do.&quot;But they insisted.When you have 20 peoplein front of you, looking at youand you are the one who has to decide ...
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:于是我们开始做一些修理其中一个理疗医师说他们可以为麦哈麦得提供一只假腿但要花一些时间他的腿有水肿且膝盖僵硬他需要一段长时间的准备相信我 我很担心因为我违反规定了我做的事情不是我分内的事晚上我去和总部的几位上司谈话我对他们撒了谎我告诉他们：“我们准备开始每天用几个小时做一些修理工作。”可能他们有几位今天就在这里
en:So we started doing some repairs.Also one of the physical therapistsreported that Mahmoudcould be provided with a leg,but not immediately.The legs were swollenand the knees were stiff,so he needed a long preparation.Believe me, I was worriedbecause I was breaking the rules.I was doing somethingthat I was not supposed to do.In the evening,I went to speak with the bosses at the headquarters,and I told them — I lied —I told them, &quot;Listen, we are going to starta couple of hours per day,just a few repairs.&quot;Maybe some of them are here now.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:（众人笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:于是 我们开工了我每天都在工作帮助无家可归的人纳吉木丁在那里忙里忙外 汇报病人的情况他告诉我：“病人们来了。”我们知道有更多的病人因为战争而来不了但是人们还是源源不断地来麦哈麦得每天都来慢慢地一周接着一周他逐渐可以用义肢行走了义肢做好了他开始了真正的物理康复治疗他每天都来穿越前线而来我曾经穿越前线一两次也就是麦哈麦得父子经过的地方告诉你们 看到他能够每天穿过危机四伏的前线 我感到异常惊讶
en:So we started.I was working, I was going everydayto work for the homeless.And Najmuddin was staying there,doing everything and reporting on the patients.He was telling me, &quot;Patients are coming.&quot;We knew that many more patientscould not come, prevented by the fighting.But people were coming.And Mahmoud was coming every day.And slowly, slowlyweek after weekhis legs were improving.The stump or cast prosthesis was made,and he was startingthe real physical rehabilitation.He was coming every day,crossing the front line.A couple of times I crossed the front linein the very place where Mahmoud and his son were crossing.I tell you, it was something so sinisterthat I was astonished he could do it every day.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:终于 美好的一天到来了麦哈麦得能够用他的新腿行走了我记得当时是四月一个美丽的日子喀布尔的四月异常美丽玫瑰 鲜花盛开我们不想留在室内那些沙袋堆在窗边太悲凉 太昏暗了我们这花园里找了一小块地方麦哈麦得安上他的义肢其他病人也如此他们开始做康复前的最后一次练习
en:But finally, the great day arrived.Mahmoud was going to be dischargedwith his new legs.It was April, I remember,a very beautiful day.April in Kabul is beautiful,full of roses, full of flowers.We could not possibly stay indoors,with all these sandbags at the windows.Very sad, dark.So we chose a small spot in the garden.And Mahmoud put on his prostheses,the other patients did the same,and they started practicingfor the last time before being discharged.
时间： 8:59
zh-cn:突然间 外面突然打起了杖两股圣战组织开始交火我们能够听到子弹飞过的声音我们所有人迅速向室内冲去麦哈麦得拉着他的儿子 我拉着另一个人每个人都拉着另一个我们撒腿就跑你知道吗 当你完全暴露在外面的时候五十米的距离可以显得那么长但我们都找到了藏身地在里面 我们害怕得发抖，我坐了一会儿 听见拉菲对父亲说：“爸爸，你跑得比我快。”（众人笑）麦哈麦得说：“当然啦。我现在能跑了，所以现在你可以去上学了。不用再为我整天推轮椅了。”后来 我们把送他们回家我永远不会忘记麦哈麦得和儿子走在一起推着那辆空轮椅的情景。然后我就明白了原来 肢体复健是重中之重尊严不能多等一天
en:Suddenly, they started fighting.Two groups of Mujahideen started fighting.We could hear in the airthe bullets passing.So we dashed, all of us,towards the shelter.Mahmoud grabbed his son, I grabbed someone else.Everybody was grabbing something.And we ran.You know, 50 meters can be a long distanceif you are totally exposed,but we managed to reach the shelter.Inside, all of us panting,I sat a moment and I heard Rafi telling his father,&quot;Father, you can run faster than me.&quot;(Laughter)And Mahmoud, &quot;Of course I can.I can run, and now you can go to school.No need of staying with me all the daypushing my wheelchair.&quot;Later on, we took them home.And I will never forgetMahmoud and his son walking togetherpushing the empty wheelchair.And then I understood,physical rehabilitation is a priority.Dignity cannot wait for better times.
时间：10:15
zh-cn:从那天开始 我们再没关门有时候我们会稍微停工几个小时但我们再也没有关过门一年之后 我又见到了麦哈麦得他情况不错瘦了一点他需要更换一副新的义肢我问起他儿子情况他说：“他在上学。挺好的。”但我知道他有话跟我说所以我问他：“什么事？”他在冒汗很明显 他感到不好意思他站在我面前低着头他说：“你教我如何走路，我很感激你。现在请帮我 让我不用再乞讨。”那就是他的工作“我的孩子们在成长。我抬不起头。我不希望他们在学校被其他人欺负。”我说：“好的。”我想 我口袋里有多少钱？给他点钱就行了这是最简单的办法他知道我的心思然后他说：“我要的是一份工作。”接着又说了一些我毕生都无法忘怀的话他说：“我是个身体残缺的人，但如果你肯帮我，我什么活都能干，就算是在地上爬，都可以。”接着 他坐下了我也一身鸡皮疙瘩地坐了下来
en:From that day on, we never closed a single day.Well sometimes we were suspended for a few hours,but we never, we never closed it again.I met Mahmoud one year later.He was in good shape —a bit thinner.He needed to change his prostheses —a new pair of prostheses.I asked about his son.He told me, &quot;He&#39;s at school. He&#39;d doing quite well.&quot;But I understood he wanted to tell me something.So I asked him, &quot;What is that?&quot;He was sweating.He was clearly embarrassed.And he was standing in front of me,his head down.He said, &quot;You have taught me to walk.Thank you very much.Now help me not to be a beggar anymore.&quot;That was the job.&quot;My children are growing.I feel ashamed.I don&#39;t want them to be teased at schoolby the other students.&quot;I said, &quot;Okay.&quot;I thought, how much money do I have in my pocket?Just to give him some money.It was the easiest way.He read my mind,and he said, &quot;I ask for a job.&quot;And then he added somethingI will never forget for the rest of my life.He said, &quot;I am a scrap of a man,but if you help me,I&#39;m ready to do anything,even if I have to crawl on the ground.&quot;And then he sat down.I sat down too with goosebumps everywhere.
时间：12:18
zh-cn:一个没有腿 只有一只手臂不会识字没有技能的人给他什么工作呢？纳吉木丁告诉我：“我们的木匠房缺人手。”“什么？” 我说：“停。”“是的，我们需要增产假腿。需要招人来把义肢的脚底粘合并组装起来我们需要增产。”“什么？”我不敢相信然后他说：“我们可以把工作椅调整一下，或许可以放一张特殊的凳子，使用特殊的铁砧和老虎钳还有电动的螺丝刀。”我说：“听着，这是乱弹琴。这想法太残忍了。那条生产线非常快。让他做这份工作太残忍了明知道他干不来。”但是我扭不过纳吉木丁我只能说服他做出一点让步只给一个星期只能试一个星期 一天都不多给一个星期之后麦哈麦得成了生产线上最快的工人我对纳吉木丁说：“这是骗人的。我不相信。”产量增长了20%“这是个骗局，骗局。” 我说我要他们证明给我看这是千真万确的
en:Legless, with only one arm,illiterate,unskilled —what job for him?Najmuddin told me, &quot;Well we have a vacancyin the carpentry shop.&quot;&quot;What?&quot; I said, &quot;Stop.&quot;&quot;Well yes, we need to increase the production of feet.We need to employ someoneto glue and to screw the sole of the feet.We need to increase the production.&quot;&quot;Excuse me?&quot;I could not believe.And then he said,&quot;No, we can modify the workbenchmaybe to put a special stool,a special anvil, special vice,and maybe an electric screwdriver.&quot;I said, &quot;Listen, it&#39;s insane.And it&#39;s even cruel to think of anything like this.That&#39;s a production line and a very fast one.It&#39;s cruelto offer him a jobknowing that he&#39;s going to fail.&quot;But with Najmuddin, we cannot discuss.So the only things I could manage to obtainwas a kind of a compromise.Only one week —one week try and not a single day more.One week later,Mahmoud was the fastest in the production line.I told Najmuddin, &quot;That&#39;s a trick.I can&#39;t believe it.&quot;The production was up 20 percent.&quot;It&#39;s a trick, it&#39;s a trick,&quot; I said.And then I asked for verification.It was true.
时间：14:16
zh-cn:纳吉木丁的意思是 麦哈麦得有需要证明的东西我醒悟过来我又错了麦哈麦得显得高大了我记得他当时坐在工作椅上 面带微笑他已经焕然一新重新站了起来当然 我明白让他站得笔直的对 是要非常感谢他的双腿但首先还是他的尊严因为那份工作他重拾了尊严所以 我明白了接着 我们开始了一项新政策一项全新的政策我们决定招聘尽可能多的残疾人训练他们从事任何工作这成了一项“良性的歧视”政策我们这样称呼它
en:The comment of Najmuddin was Mahmoud has something to prove.I understoodthat I was wrong again.Mahmoud had looked taller.I remember him sitting behind the workbench smiling.He was a new man,taller again.Of course, I understoodthat what made him stand tall —yeah they were the legs, thank you very much —but as a first step,it was the dignity.He has regained his full dignitythanks to that job.So of course, I understood.And then we started a new policy —a new policy completely different.We decided to employas many disabled as possibleto train them in any possible job.It became a policy of &quot;positive discrimination,&quot;we call it now.
时间：15:15
zh-cn:你知道吗这对所有人都有利所有人都得到了好处那些被聘用的人 就不用说了他们得到了工作和尊严还有 那些新来的人每年有7000个新来的人你们真应该看看他们的表情当他们看到辅助自己的人竟然也和自己一样时 脸上有多惊奇有时候他们像这样：“哇。”然后他们露出惊奇的神色接着 这惊奇变成了希望这也方便了我对战胜了残疾的人进行培训嗖 他们学得可快了 那动力那份用耐心建立起来的悟性完全不可思议人无残人
en:And you know what?It&#39;s good for everybody.Everybody benefits from that —those employed, of course,because they get a joband dignity.But also for the newcomers.They are 7,000 every year —people coming for the first time.And you should see the faces of these peoplewhen they realize that those assisting them are like them.Sometimes you see them,they look, &quot;Oh.&quot;And you see the faces.And then the surprise turns into hope.And it&#39;s easy for me as well to train someonewho has already passed through the experience of disability.Poof, they learn much faster — the motivation,the empathy they can establish with the patientis completely different, completely.Scraps of men do not exist.
时间：16:13
zh-cn:像麦哈麦得这样的人是变化的载体变化一旦开始 就一发不可收拾所以，是的，给他们工作是一方面但我们也开始提供小额贷款项目和教育一旦开始 就一发不可收拾了接着你开始职业培训为不能上学的人提供上门教育理疗复健不仅能够在矫形中心进行还能在人们家里进行总能找到更好的做事方法纳吉木丁 也就是穿白色外套的那个天杀的纳吉木丁 就是那位我从纳吉木丁麦哈麦得和拉菲这些人身上学到了很多东西他们是我的老师
en:People like Mahmoudare agents of change.And when you start changing, you cannot stop.So employing people, yes,but also we started programming projectsof microfinance, education.And when you start, you cannot stop.So you do vocational training,home education for those who cannot go to school.Physical therapies can be done, not only in the orthopedic center,but also in the houses of the people.There is always a better way to do things.That&#39;s Najmuddin, the one with the white coat.Terrible Najmuddin, is that one.I have learned a lotfrom people like Najmuddin, Mahmoud, Rafi.They are my teachers.
时间：16:55
zh-cn:我有一个愿望 一个宏伟的愿望就是这种工作 思维的方式能够有朝一日推广到其他国家世界上有很多国家像阿富汗一样正在打仗这是可能的 而且并不难做到我们要做的就是倾听那些我们应该帮助的人们将他们融入决策的过程中然后 让他们学会适应这就是我宏伟的愿望
en:I have a wish, a big wish,that this way of working, this way of thinking,is going to be implemented in other countries.There are plenty of countries at war like Afghanistan.It is possible and it is not difficult.All we have to dois to listen to the peoplethat we are supposed assist,to make them partof the decision-making processand then, of course, to adapt.This is my big wish.
时间：17:32
zh-cn:别以为阿富汗的变化已经结束远远没有 我们仍在继续我们最近才开始了一个项目一个运动项目轮椅篮球运动我们把轮椅运送到各地在阿富汗主要地区建立了几支球队一开始当阿纳朱里纳告诉我“我们想要开始这个项目。”我犹豫了我说：“不行。” 你们可以想象得到我说：“不不不，这么做不行。”接着 我又问了那个问题：“这是重中之重吗？这真有必要吗？”现在你可以看到我从来没有错过任何一次训练比赛前一天 我非常紧张你们应该看我比赛时的样子我像一个真正的意大利人那样狂吼
en:Well don&#39;t think that the changes in Afghanistan are over;not at all. We are going on.Recently we have just started a program,a sport program —basketball for wheelchair users.We transport the wheelchairs everywhere.We have several teams in the main part of Afghanistan.At the beginning,when Anajulina told me,&quot;We would like to start it,&quot;I hesitated.I said, &quot;No,&quot; you can imagine.I said, &quot;No, no, no, no, we can&#39;t.&quot;And then I asked the usual question:&quot;Is it a priority?Is it really necessary?&quot;Well now you should see me.I never miss a single training session.The night before a match I&#39;m very nervous.And you should see me during the match.I shout like a true Italian.
时间：18:25
zh-cn:（众人笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间：18:28
zh-cn:接下来呢 下一个变化是什么我还不知道但是我知道 纳吉木丁和他的同伙们已经盘算好了
en:What&#39;s next? What is going to be the next change?Well I don&#39;t know yet,but I&#39;m sure Najmuddin and his friends,they have it already in mind.
时间：18:38
zh-cn:我的故事讲完了 非常感谢大家
en:That was my story. Thank you very much.
时间：18:41
zh-cn:（众人鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
