时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想跟大家分享一个将亚当和夏娃的臭名昭著的隐私事件和过去十年发生的公共和隐私领域里的显著变迁相结合的故事。
en:I would like to tell you a storyconnecting the notorious privacy incidentinvolving Adam and Eve,and the remarkable shift in the boundariesbetween public and private which has occurredin the past 10 years.
时间： 0:27
zh-cn:大家都知道这个事件吧。在伊甸园里有一天亚当和夏娃意识到了他们是赤裸的。他们吓坏了。然后剩下的就是历史了。
en:You know the incident.Adam and Eve one day in the Garden of Edenrealize they are naked.They freak out.And the rest is history.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:换作现在的话，亚当和夏娃可能会有不同的举动。
en:Nowadays, Adam and Evewould probably act differently.
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:（推特）［＠亚当，昨天太销魂了！我好爱那个苹果啊。］
en:[@Adam Last nite was a blast! loved dat apple LOL]
时间： 0:45
zh-cn:［＠夏娃，是啊，宝贝儿，知道我裤子变成什么样了吗？］
en:[@Eve yep.. babe, know what happened to my pants tho?]
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:我们确实比以往任何时候都开放,把大量关于自己的信息放在网上传播。而且这么多有关我们的信息正在被各种机构收集起来。当今,通过对这些大量个人信息的研究,我们从中受益非浅;但是在放弃我们的隐私的同时也要付出很多的代价。而我的故事就是关于这些代价的。
en:We do reveal so much more informationabout ourselves online than ever before,and so much information about usis being collected by organizations.Now there is much to gain and benefitfrom this massive analysis of personal information,or big data,but there are also complex tradeoffs that comefrom giving away our privacy.And my story is about these tradeoffs.
时间： 1:14
zh-cn:让我们首先看看一个我认为在过去几年已经变得越来越清晰的现象,那就是任何个人信息都可能变成敏感信息。在2000年的时候，全球大约拍摄了1000亿的照片，但是只有非常微不足道的一部分被放在了网上。到了2010年，仅仅在脸书上，一个月就上传了25亿张照片，大部分都是可确认的。同时，计算机在照片中识别面孔的能力提高了三个数量级。当你把这些技术结合起来后会发生什么呢？不断增加的脸部信息可用性;不断增强的计算机面部识别能力；同时还有云计算，让在座的任何人都拥有了几年前只有情报机构才有的计算能力；同时还有普适计算，让我的手机，和互联网相连接然后可以在几秒内进行成百上千的面部数据测算。我们预测这些技术的结合体会对我们所谓的隐私和匿名产生非常巨大的影响。
en:We start with an observation which, in my mind,has become clearer and clearer in the past few years,that any personal informationcan become sensitive information.Back in the year 2000, about 100 billion photoswere shot worldwide,but only a minuscule proportion of themwere actually uploaded online.In 2010, only on Facebook, in a single month,2.5 billion photos were uploaded,most of them identified.In the same span of time,computers&#39; ability to recognize people in photosimproved by three orders of magnitude.What happens when you combinethese technologies together:increasing availability of facial data;improving facial recognizing ability by computers;but also cloud computing,which gives anyone in this theaterthe kind of computational powerwhich a few years ago was only the domainof three-letter agencies;and ubiquitous computing,which allows my phone, which is not a supercomputer,to connect to the Internetand do there hundreds of thousandsof face metrics in a few seconds?Well, we conjecture that the resultof this combination of technologieswill be a radical change in our very notionsof privacy and anonymity.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:为了证明这个想法，我们在卡内基·梅隆大学校园里做了一个测试。我们让过路的学生们参与一项研究，我们用摄像头给他们照了相，然后我们让他们在电脑上填写一张调查问卷。在此同时,我们把他们的照片上传到一个云计算节点上，然后我们开始用一个面部识别程序来把那张照片和一个有成百上千张照片的数据库相比较对照这些照片都是我们从脸书上下载下来的。当被研究对象做到问卷的最后一页时,那页已经自动显示我们找到的10张由识别程序找到的最相似的图片，然后我们让被研究对象确认那些照片到底是不是自己。
en:To test that, we did an experimenton Carnegie Mellon University campus.We asked students who were walking byto participate in a study,and we took a shot with a webcam,and we asked them to fill out a survey on a laptop.While they were filling out the survey,we uploaded their shot to a cloud-computing cluster,and we started using a facial recognizerto match that shot to a databaseof some hundreds of thousands of imageswhich we had downloaded from Facebook profiles.By the time the subject reached the last pageon the survey, the page had been dynamically updatedwith the 10 best matching photoswhich the recognizer had found,and we asked the subjects to indicatewhether he or she found themselves in the photo.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:大家看到被研究对象了吗？电脑做到了，实际上它的准确率是三分之一。
en:Do you see the subject?Well, the computer did, and in fact did sofor one out of three subjects.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:基本上，我们可以从一张匿名的面孔开始，线下或线上，然后我们可以用脸部识别技术找到那个人。这多亏了社交媒体的数据。但是几年前，我们做了些其他事情。我们从社交媒体数据出发，然后我们把它和美国政府的社会安全机构里的数据相对照，我们最终可以预测一个人的社会保险号码，这个号码在美国是极其敏感的信息。
en:So essentially, we can start from an anonymous face,offline or online, and we can use facial recognitionto give a name to that anonymous facethanks to social media data.But a few years back, we did something else.We started from social media data,we combined it statistically with datafrom U.S. government social security,and we ended up predicting social security numbers,which in the United Statesare extremely sensitive information.
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:大家明白我的意思了吗？如果你把这两个研究相结合，问题就来了，你可不可以从一张面孔出发，然后通过面部识别找到这个人和有关此人的各种公共信息，从这些公共信息里，可以推断出未公开的信息，即那些关于此人更敏感的信息呢？答案是，可以的，我们也做到了。当然，准确率也变糟了。［27％的调查对象的社会保障号头5个数字可以通过4次尝试得到］但实际上，我们甚至决定开发一个苹果应用,这个应用使用手机内置的相机给研究对象拍照然后把照片上传到云端然后实时地进行我刚才描述的计算：寻找匹配，公共信息，尝试推测敏感信息，然后把这些信息传送回手机然后把这些信息列到研究对象的图像旁边,这是个夸张现实的例子，大概也是一个令人毛骨悚然的现实。实际上，我们没有开发这个应用，这只是一个概念验证。
en:Do you see where I&#39;m going with this?So if you combine the two studies together,then the question becomes,can you start from a face and,using facial recognition, find a nameand publicly available informationabout that name and that person,and from that publicly available informationinfer non-publicly available information,much more sensitive oneswhich you link back to the face?And the answer is, yes, we can, and we did.Of course, the accuracy keeps getting worse.[27% of subjects&#39; first 5 SSN digits identified (with 4 attempts)]But in fact, we even decided to develop an iPhone appwhich uses the phone&#39;s internal camerato take a shot of a subjectand then upload it to a cloudand then do what I just described to you in real time:looking for a match, finding public information,trying to infer sensitive information,and then sending back to the phoneso that it is overlaid on the face of the subject,an example of augmented reality,probably a creepy example of augmented reality.In fact, we didn&#39;t develop the app to make it available,just as a proof of concept.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:事实是，让我们把这些技术推进到逻辑的极限。设想一下未来你周围的陌生人可以通过他们的谷歌眼镜或者，他们的隐形眼镜，并通过你身上的7、8个数据点就可以推测出任何与你有关的信息。这个没有任何秘密的未来会是怎样的？而我们该不该关心这个问题？
en:In fact, take these technologiesand push them to their logical extreme.Imagine a future in which strangers around youwill look at you through their Google Glassesor, one day, their contact lenses,and use seven or eight data points about youto infer anything elsewhich may be known about you.What will this future without secrets look like?And should we care?
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:我们可能会倾向于相信这个有这么丰富的数据的未来会是一个不再有偏见的未来,但实际上，拥有这么多的信息并不意味着我们就会做出更理性的选择。在另一个试验里，我们给研究对象关于一个工作应征者的信息。上传信息里同时也包括了一些有趣并且绝对合法，但毕竟有些尴尬的内容。有趣的是，一部分研究对象发布了类似的信息，有些没有。大家认为哪个组会更有可能质疑他人呢？自相矛盾的是，那是发布了类似信息的组，这就是一个与个人道德相悖的例子。
en:We may like to believethat the future with so much wealth of datawould be a future with no more biases,but in fact, having so much informationdoesn&#39;t mean that we will make decisionswhich are more objective.In another experiment, we presented to our subjectsinformation about a potential job candidate.We included in this information some referencesto some funny, absolutely legal,but perhaps slightly embarrassing informationthat the subject had posted online.Now interestingly, among our subjects,some had posted comparable information,and some had not.Which group do you thinkwas more likely to judge harshly our subject?Paradoxically, it was the groupwho had posted similar information,an example of moral dissonance.
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:大家可能现在会想，这跟我无关，因为我没有什么可隐藏的。但实际上，隐私不是说你有什么坏事情要隐藏。想象一下你是某机构人事部的主管，你收到一些简历，然后你决定寻找更多的关于这些应征者的信息。然后，你就在谷歌上搜他们的名字在某种情形下，你找到这个信息。或者在一个平行的空间里，你找到了这个信息。你认为你会公平的给任何一个应征者面试的机会吗？如果你是这样想的话，那么你与美国的老板们不同,实际上，我们就是用了这些老板做的这个试验。我们建立了一些脸书帐号，编制了一些信息，然后我们开始给他们发简历，此后我们监控着,到底这些公司会不会搜索我们的应征者，他们有没有对他们在社交网络上找到的信息有所举动。实际上他们确实这样做了。对同等条件的应征者的歧视是正从社交网络收集的信息开始的。
en:Now you may be thinking,this does not apply to me,because I have nothing to hide.But in fact, privacy is not abouthaving something negative to hide.Imagine that you are the H.R. directorof a certain organization, and you receive résumés,and you decide to find more information about the candidates.Therefore, you Google their namesand in a certain universe,you find this information.Or in a parallel universe, you find this information.Do you think that you would be equally likelyto call either candidate for an interview?If you think so, then you are notlike the U.S. employers who are, in fact,part of our experiment, meaning we did exactly that.We created Facebook profiles, manipulating traits,then we started sending out résumés to companies in the U.S.,and we detected, we monitored,whether they were searching for our candidates,and whether they were acting on the informationthey found on social media. And they were.Discrimination was happening through social mediafor equally skilled candidates.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:现在营销人员希望我们相信关于我们的所有信息永远都会以我们喜欢的方式被使用。但是想想看,凭什么总会是这样？在几年前出品的一部电影里，“少数派报告”，一个著名的镜头里是汤姆·克鲁斯在一个大厦里走着然后全息个性化的广告出现在他周围。那部电影的背景年代是2054年，大约离现在还有40年，就像那个技术显示的一样让人兴奋，它已经大大低估了各种机构可以搜集到的关于你自己的信息，以及他们如何能利用这些信息以一种你自己都无法预测到的方式来影响你。
en:Now marketers like us to believethat all information about us will alwaysbe used in a manner which is in our favor.But think again. Why should that be always the case?In a movie which came out a few years ago,&quot;Minority Report,&quot; a famous scenehad Tom Cruise walk in a malland holographic personalized advertisingwould appear around him.Now, that movie is set in 2054,about 40 years from now,and as exciting as that technology looks,it already vastly underestimatesthe amount of information that organizationscan gather about you, and how they can use itto influence you in a way that you will not even detect.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:举个例子，这是另一个我们正在做的未完成的试验。想象一下某个机构有你的脸书朋友信息，通过某种算法他们可以找到两个你最喜欢的朋友。然后，他们的即时创建出这两个朋友的脸部信息结合体。在我们之前的研究显示人们在合成的脸部图片中甚至不会识别出自己，但是他们却对这些合成图片有好感。那么下次你在浏览某个产品的时候，同时有个广告建议你买它，这就不会是一个标准的推销员,却会变成你的朋友，而且你都不会意识到正在发生着什么。
en:So as an example, this is another experimentactually we are running, not yet completed.Imagine that an organization has accessto your list of Facebook friends,and through some kind of algorithmthey can detect the two friends that you like the most.And then they create, in real time,a facial composite of these two friends.Now studies prior to ours have shown that peopledon&#39;t recognize any longer even themselvesin facial composites, but they reactto those composites in a positive manner.So next time you are looking for a certain product,and there is an ad suggesting you to buy it,it will not be just a standard spokesperson.It will be one of your friends,and you will not even know that this is happening.
时间： 8:48
zh-cn:现在的问题是我们当下的保护个人信息不被滥用的政策法规还十分薄弱。其中的一个法规是透明性，要告诉人们你将怎样使用这些数据。理论上，这是非常好的事情。这是必要的，但是却不完善。透明性也会被误导。你会告诉人们你要做什么，然后你仍然试图诱导他们给你任意数量的个人信息。
en:Now the problem is thatthe current policy mechanisms we haveto protect ourselves from the abuses of personal informationare like bringing a knife to a gunfight.One of these mechanisms is transparency,telling people what you are going to do with their data.And in principle, that&#39;s a very good thing.It&#39;s necessary, but it is not sufficient.Transparency can be misdirected.You can tell people what you are going to do,and then you still nudge them to disclosearbitrary amounts of personal information.
时间： 9:22
zh-cn:那么在另一个实验里，这次我们让学生们给我们他们的学校表现信息这包括一些非常敏感的信息，比如这个。［你有没有在考试中做过弊？］对其中一个组，我们告诉他们，“只有其他的学生会看到你的答案。”而对另一组学生，我们说，“学生和系里会看到你们的答案。”透明度。预先声明。当然，这个奏效了，第一组学生比第二组更愿意说出实情。很合理吧，不是吗？但是我们加了下面的误导。我们在两组中重复做了这个实验，这次我们在告诉他们我们如何使用这些数据和让他们实际开始回答问题之间增加了一点延迟。
en:So in yet another experiment, this one with students,we asked them to provide informationabout their campus behavior,including pretty sensitive questions, such as this one.[Have you ever cheated in an exam?]Now to one group of subjects, we told them,&quot;Only other students will see your answers.&quot;To another group of subjects, we told them,&quot;Students and faculty will see your answers.&quot;Transparency. Notification. And sure enough, this worked,in the sense that the first group of subjectswere much more likely to disclose than the second.It makes sense, right?But then we added the misdirection.We repeated the experiment with the same two groups,this time adding a delaybetween the time we told subjectshow we would use their dataand the time we actually started answering the questions.
时间：10:08
zh-cn:大家认为这个延迟需要多久能让我们抵消掉之前的“系里也会看你们的答案”带来的抑制作用？十分钟？五分钟？一分钟？15秒怎么样？只要15秒就会让两组提供同样数量的数据，就好像第二组不再关心系里会不会看他们的答案一样。
en:How long a delay do you think we had to addin order to nullify the inhibitory effectof knowing that faculty would see your answers?Ten minutes?Five minutes?One minute?How about 15 seconds?Fifteen seconds were sufficient to have the two groupsdisclose the same amount of information,as if the second group now no longer caresfor faculty reading their answers.
时间：10:35
zh-cn:到此为止，我得承认这个演讲可能显得非常的郁闷,但是这不是我的重点。实际上，我想分享的是我们还是有其他办法的。我们现在的处理方式不是唯一的，也绝对不是最好的。也绝对不是最好的。当有人对你说，“大家不用关心隐私，”想想是不是因为事情已经被扭曲到他们不能再关心个人隐私了，然后我们才意识到一切已被人操纵,已经逐渐侵入到自我保护的整个过程中。当有人说隐私和大量信息带来的好处无法兼得时，想想过去的20年里，研究人员已经发明了理论上使任何电子转帐更加安全保密的方式来进行的技术。我们可以匿名的浏览网页。我们可以发送连美国国家安全局都不可以读取的个人电子邮件，我们甚至可以有保护隐私的数据挖掘。换句话说，我们可以在得到大量数据的同时仍能保护个人隐私。当然，这些技术的应用意味着在数据拥有者们和数据对象们之间将有花费和收入的变化，也许这可能就是我们为什么没怎么听说过这些技术的原因。
en:Now I have to admit that this talk so farmay sound exceedingly gloomy,but that is not my point.In fact, I want to share with you the fact thatthere are alternatives.The way we are doing things now is not the only waythey can done, and certainly not the best waythey can be done.When someone tells you, &quot;People don&#39;t care about privacy,&quot;consider whether the game has been designedand rigged so that they cannot care about privacy,and coming to the realization that these manipulations occuris already halfway through the processof being able to protect yourself.When someone tells you that privacy is incompatiblewith the benefits of big data,consider that in the last 20 years,researchers have created technologiesto allow virtually any electronic transactionsto take place in a more privacy-preserving manner.We can browse the Internet anonymously.We can send emails that can only be readby the intended recipient, not even the NSA.We can have even privacy-preserving data mining.In other words, we can have the benefits of big datawhile protecting privacy.Of course, these technologies imply a shiftingof cost and revenuesbetween data holders and data subjects,which is why, perhaps, you don&#39;t hear more about them.
时间：11:57
zh-cn:让我再回到伊甸园。关于伊甸园的故事还有第二个关于隐私的解释这跟亚当和夏娃的赤裸和羞耻没有任何关系。大家可以在约翰·弥尔顿的“失乐园”里看到类似的解释。在伊甸园里，亚当和夏娃是物质上的满足。他们很开心，也很满足。但是，他们没有知识和自觉性。当他们吃到智慧之果时，其实是他们发现自我的时刻。他们变得自觉，实现了自主。但是代价却是，离开伊甸园。那么，隐私，换句话说，就是为了得到自由必须付出的代价。
en:Which brings me back to the Garden of Eden.There is a second privacy interpretationof the story of the Garden of Edenwhich doesn&#39;t have to do with the issueof Adam and Eve feeling nakedand feeling ashamed.You can find echoes of this interpretationin John Milton&#39;s &quot;Paradise Lost.&quot;In the garden, Adam and Eve are materially content.They&#39;re happy. They are satisfied.However, they also lack knowledgeand self-awareness.The moment they eat the aptly namedfruit of knowledge,that&#39;s when they discover themselves.They become aware. They achieve autonomy.The price to pay, however, is leaving the garden.So privacy, in a way, is both the meansand the price to pay for freedom.
时间：12:49
zh-cn:再次，营销人员告诉我们大量数据和社交网络并不仅仅是为他们谋福利的天堂，同时也是我们所有人的伊甸园。我们得到免费的信息。我们可以玩愤怒的小鸟。我们得到适合自己的应用。但实际上，在几年内，各种机构就会因为知道这么多关于我们的信息，进而可以在我们知道自己想要做什么之前就可以诱导我们的想法，或许在我们知道自己是不是真的需要某个商品之前就以我们自己的名义把它买下来了。
en:Again, marketers tell usthat big data and social mediaare not just a paradise of profit for them,but a Garden of Eden for the rest of us.We get free content.We get to play Angry Birds. We get targeted apps.But in fact, in a few years, organizationswill know so much about us,they will be able to infer our desiresbefore we even form them, and perhapsbuy products on our behalfbefore we even know we need them.
时间：13:19
zh-cn:有一个英国作家预测到了这种未来就是我们会用自己的自主和自由来换来舒适安逸。甚至超过了乔治·奥威尔，这个作家当然是赫胥黎。在“美丽新世界”里，他想象了一个社会:人们发明了原本是为了得到自由的一种技术,最终反被此技术所奴役。然而，在这本书里，他同样给我们指出了一条突破这个社会的道路，跟亚当和夏娃不得不离开伊甸园的道路类似。用野人的话说，重获自主和自由是可能的，尽管代价惨重。因此我相信当今具有决定性的战役之一就是控制个人信息之战，决定大量数据是否会变成帮助获得自由的武器，还是暗中操纵我们的工具。
en:Now there was one English authorwho anticipated this kind of futurewhere we would trade awayour autonomy and freedom for comfort.Even more so than George Orwell,the author is, of course, Aldous Huxley.In &quot;Brave New World,&quot; he imagines a societywhere technologies that we createdoriginally for freedomend up coercing us.However, in the book, he also offers us a way outof that society, similar to the paththat Adam and Eve had to follow to leave the garden.In the words of the Savage,regaining autonomy and freedom is possible,although the price to pay is steep.So I do believe that one of the defining fightsof our times will be the fightfor the control over personal information,the fight over whether big data will become a forcefor freedom,rather than a force which will hiddenly manipulate us.
时间：14:25
zh-cn:现在，我们中的大多数甚至不知道战斗已经打响了，但这是真的，不管你喜欢不喜欢。冒着打草惊蛇的危险，我告诉大家战斗的武器就在这里，那就是意识到正在发生着什么，就在你手中，只需几次点击。
en:Right now, many of usdo not even know that the fight is going on,but it is, whether you like it or not.And at the risk of playing the serpent,I will tell you that the tools for the fightare here, the awareness of what is going on,and in your hands,just a few clicks away.
时间：14:47
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:48
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
