时间： 0:12
zh-cn:世界上54%的人口居住在城市。在发展中国家，有三分之一的人居住在贫民窟。全球75%的能源消耗发生在城市，导致全球变暖的气体排放有80%是来自城市。那些你和我可能认为是全球性的问题，比如气候变化、能源危机或者贫穷，事实上从很多方面来讲，是城市问题。这些问题是不会得到解决的，除非居住在城市里的人们——就像我们在座的大多数——真正行动起来，因为现在我们做的还很不够。当我们从以下三个方面考察城市生活时，这一点就变得非常清楚了。首先是我们的公民参与民主制度的意愿；其次是我们的城市能够真正包容它所有的居民的能力；最后是我们自己能够充实而快乐地生活的能力。
en:Fifty-four percent of the world&#39;s populationlives in our cities.In developing countries,one third of that populationis living in slums.Seventy-five percent of global energy consumptionoccurs in our cities,and 80 percent of gas emissionsthat cause global warmingcome from our cities.So things that you and I might think aboutas global problems,like climate change, the energy crisisor poverty,are really, in many ways, city problems.They will not be solvedunless people who live in cities,like most of us,actually start doing a better job,because right now, we are not doing a very good one.And that becomes very clearwhen we look into three aspects of city life:first, our citizens&#39; willingness to engagewith democratic institutions;second, our cities&#39; ability to really includeall of their residents;and lastly, our own abilityto live fulfilling and happy lives.
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:谈到民主参与意愿，我们有很清楚的数据。全世界的选民投票率在上世纪80年代达到峰值，然后以一个前所未有的速度在下降，如果说这些数字在国家层面已经很坏了，那么在城市层面则更惨淡了。在过去两年中，世界上最坚固、最老牌的两个民主国家，美国和法国都举行了全国性的市政府选举。在法国，投票率再创新低。将近40%的选民决定不去投票。在美国，这个数字更加可怕。在某些美国城市，投票率仅仅接近5%。我会给大家一点时间消化。我们正在谈论的是那些民主城市，而在这些地方，有95%的民众觉得选举他们的领导人并不是一件重要的事情。洛杉矶，这座拥有400万居民的城市，仅仅用20万多一点的选票就选出了市长。这是这座城市近100年来投票率最低的一次选举。在这里，我所居住的城市里约，尽管强制要求民众投票，还是有将近30%的选民决定将他们的选票作废或者待在家里并支付罚款，就在上一次的市长选举中。
en:When it comes to engagement,the data is very clear.Voter turnout around the worldpeaked in the late &#39;80s,and it has been declining at a pacethat we have never seen before,and if those numbers are bad at the national level,at the level of our cities,they are just dismal.In the last two years,two of the world&#39;s most consolidated,oldest democracies, the U.S. and France,held nationwide municipal elections.In France, voter turnout hit a record low.Almost 40 percent of voters decidednot to show up.In the U.S., the numbers were even scarier.In some American cities,voter turnout was close to five percent.I&#39;ll let that sink in for a second.We&#39;re talking about democratic citiesin which 95 percent of peopledecided that it was not importantto elect their leaders.The city of L.A., a city of four million people,elected its mayor with just a bit over 200,000 votes.That was the lowest turnout the city had seenin 100 years.Right here, in my city of Rio,in spite of mandatory voting,almost 30 percent of the voting populationchose to either annul their votesor stay home and pay a finein the last mayoral elections.
时间： 3:17
zh-cn:谈到包容性，我们的城市也做得不是很成功，跟前面一样，你不需要很费力就可以看到这样的证据。里约是一个非常不平等的城市。这是莱布朗区，莱布朗是这座城市最富裕的社区。而这里是阿莱芒贫民窟，容纳了7万多这座城市最贫穷的人。莱布朗区的HDI，人类发展指数是0.967。这比挪威、瑞士或者瑞典的都要高。而阿莱芒的人类发展指数是0.711，介于阿尔及利亚和加蓬之间。就像南半球的许多其它城市一样，里约是一个你可以在30分钟内经历从北欧到撒哈拉以南的非洲的地方——当然前提是你自己开车。如果你乘坐公共交通，那就需要2个小时。
en:When it comes to inclusiveness,our cities are not the best cases of success either,and again, you don&#39;t need to look very farin order to find proof of that.The city of Rio is incredibly unequal.This is Leblon.Leblon is the city&#39;s richest neighborhood.And this is Complexo do Alemão.This is where over 70,000of the city&#39;s poorest residents live.Leblon has an HDI, a Human Development Index,of .967.That is higher than Norway, Switzerlandor Sweden.Complexo do Alemão has an HDI of .711.It sits somewhere in between the HDIof Algeria and Gabon.So Rio, like so many cities across the global South,is a place where you can go from northern Europeto sub-Saharan Africain the space of 30 minutes.If you drive, that is.If you take public transit, it&#39;s about two hours.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:最后一点，也可能是最重要的一点，城市，因其产生的令人难以置信的人际关系方面的财富，可以是人类幸福蓬勃发展的理想场所。我们喜欢待在人群之中。我们是群居动物。然而，那些城镇化已经达到峰值的国家似乎也正是那些城市不再使人们快乐的国家。美国人在过去三十年总体幸福度是在下降的，主要原因就在此。美国人建设城市的方式导致许多高质量的公共空间在许多美国城市几乎消失殆尽，结果，我们看到的是人际关系的衰退以及那些使我们快乐的东西的衰退。很多研究都表明有越来越多的孤独，而团结、诚信，社会与公民参与却越来越少。
en:And lastly, perhaps most importantly,cities, with the incredible wealthof relations that they enable,could be the ideal places for human happinessto flourish.We like being around people.We are social animals.Instead, countries where urbanizationhas already peaked seem to be the very countriesin which cities have stopped making us happy.The United States population has sufferedfrom a general decrease in happinessfor the past three decades,and the main reason is this.The American way of building citieshas caused good quality public spacesto virtually disappear in many,many American cities,and as a result, they have seena decline of relations,of the things that make us happy.Many studies show an increasein solitude and a decrease in solidarity,honesty, and social and civic participation.
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:我们要如何开始建造我们自己在乎的城市？这个城市重视其最重要的资产：即居住在其中的人们所呈现的惊人的多样性。我们要如何建造能使我们快乐的城市？我认为如果我们想要改变我们城市的现状，那么我们必须得去改变那些让我们之所以有现在这样的城市的决策程序。我们需要一个参与革命，并且越快越好。那种把投票作为我们唯一的履行公民权的想法已经不再有意义了。人们已经厌倦了仅仅是在每隔几年需要将权力授予某人时才被当作有能力的个体对待。如果说2013年6月横扫整个巴西的游行示威告诉了我们什么的话，那就是每一次当我们尝试着在选举以外行使我们的权力时，我们只会挨打、受辱或被捕。这种情况需要改变，因为改变之后，人们不仅会重新参与到代表结构中来，而且还可以用直接、高效和集体的决策来补充这些结构，那种通过它本身包容的本质来攻击不平等的决策，那种可以使我们的城市变得更宜居的决策。
en:So how do we start building citiesthat make us care?Cities that value their most important asset:the incredible diversityof the people who live in them?Cities that make us happy?Well, I believe that if we want to changewhat our cities look like,then we really have to changethe decision-making processesthat have given us the results that we have right now.We need a participation revolution,and we need it fast.The idea of voting as our only exercise in citizenshipdoes not make sense anymore.People are tired of only being treatedas empowered individuals every few yearswhen it&#39;s time to delegate that powerto someone else.If the protests that swept Brazilin June 2013 have taught us anything,it&#39;s that every time we tryto exercise our poweroutside of an electoral context,we are beaten up, humiliated or arrested.And this needs to change,because when it does,not only will people re-engagewith the structures of representation,but also complement these structureswith direct, effective, and collective decision making,decision making of the kindthat attacks inequalityby its very inclusive nature,decision making of the kindthat can change our citiesinto better places for us to live.
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:但很明显，问题没那么简单。促成广泛的民众参与和权力再分配实际操作起来会是一个噩梦，而这也是科技能够充当一个非常有用的角色的地方——它可以使人们更容易地组织、交流和决策，而且大家不必在同一时间出现在同一地方。
en:But there is a catch, obviously:Enabling widespread participationand redistributing powercan be a logistical nightmare,and there&#39;s where technology can playan incredibly helpful role,by making it easier for people to organize,communicate and make decisionswithout having to be in the same roomat the same time.
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:对我们来说不幸的是，在促进民主的过程中，我们的政府并没有让科技发挥它的全部潜能。目前为止，大部分的市政府在使用科技将公民变成人体传感器方面非常有效，公民给当局报告一些城市数据：比如哪里出现了坑洼、哪里的树倒了或者哪里的灯坏了等等。这些城市政府还会在小范围内邀请民众参与到改善决策结果的活动中来，事实上这些决策是早已为这些民众做好了的，这情形就跟在我八岁的时候妈妈告诉我可以自己做选择一样：我必须得在晚上八点钟前上床，但是我可以选择穿粉红色或者蓝色的睡衣。那不是参与，事实上，政府还不善于使用科技让民众参与到那些重要的事情中来——比如我们分配预算的方式，我们使用土地的方式，以及我们管理我们的自然资源的方式。这些都是能够真正影响那些在我们的城市出现的全球问题的决策。
en:Unfortunately for us,when it comes to fostering democratic processes,our city governments have not used technologyto its full potential.So far, most city governments have been effectiveat using tech to turn citizens into human sensorswho serve authorities with data on the city:potholes, fallen trees or broken lamps.They have also, to a lesser extent,invited people to participate in improvingthe outcome of decisionsthat were already made for them,just like my mom when I was eightand she told me that I had a choice:I had to be in bed by 8 p.m.,but I could choose my pinkpajamas or my blue pajamas.That&#39;s not participation,and in fact, governments have not been very goodat using technology to enable participationon what matters —the way we allocate our budget,the way we occupy our land,and the way we manage our natural resources.Those are the kinds of decisionsthat can actually impact global problemsthat manifest themselves in our cities.
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:好消息是，我真的有一个好消息要分享给你们，那就是我们不需要等到政府去做这些。我有理由相信公民可以构建属于他们自己的参与结构。3年前，我跟别人一起成立了一个组织，叫做“我的里约”，我们使里约的居民能够更容易地围绕他们所在城市里的那些他们关心的事件和地点去组织活动，并且每天对这些事件和地点产生影响。在过去的三年里，“我的里约”已经成长为一个覆盖十六万里约市民的网络。这些人中有40%是20到29岁的年轻人，也就是今天的里约这个年龄段的每15个年轻人中就有一个是“我的里约”的成员。
en:The good news is,and I do have good news to share with you,we don&#39;t need to wait for governments to do this.I have reason to believethat it&#39;s possible for citizens to buildtheir own structures of participation.Three years ago, I cofounded an organizationcalled Meu Rio,and we make it easier for people in the city of Rioto organize around causes and placesthat they care about in their own city,and have an impact on those causes and placesevery day.In these past three years, Meu Rio grewto a network of 160,000 citizens of Rio.About 40 percent of those members are young peopleaged 20 to 29.That is one in every 15 young peopleof that age in Rio today.
时间：10:11
zh-cn:这个可爱的小姑娘也是我们的成员之一，她叫比亚，在你的右边，她当时只有11岁，比亚使用我们的一个工具发起了一场保卫她的学校免被拆除的运动。事实上她的学校跻身于这个国家最好的公立学校之列，然而里约热内卢州政府打算把它拆了去建——我不跟你开玩笑——去建一个为世界杯服务的停车场，就在这场盛事开始前。比亚发起了一场运动，我们甚至通过网络摄像监控24小时不间断观察她的学校，几个月后，政府改变了主意。比亚的学校得以保全。
en:Amongst our members is this adorable little girl,Bia, to your right,and Bia was just 11 years oldwhen she started a campaign using one of our toolsto save her model public school from demolition.Her school actually ranks among the bestpublic schools in the country,and it was going to be demolishedby the Rio de Janeiro state governmentto build, I kid you not,a parking lot for the World Cupright before the event happened.Bia started a campaign, and we even watchedher school 24/7 through webcam monitoring,and many months afterwards,the government changed their minds.Bia&#39;s school stayed in place.
时间：10:55
zh-cn:还有约维塔的故事。她是一个了不起的女人，她女儿10年前走丢了，从那以后，她就一直在寻找她的女儿。在这个过程中，她第一次发现她并不是唯一的一个。仅去年，也就是2013年，里约州就有6000人失踪。但她也发现尽管如此，里约却没有一个处理失踪案件的集中的情报系统。在其它的巴西城市，这样的系统已经帮助处理了高达80%的失踪案件。她发起了一场运动，在安全部长收到了16000封要求他建立这样的系统的邮件后，他做出了回应，并开始建造一支专门处理这些案件的警察队伍。上个月底它已经对公众开放了，约维塔也在场并且很高兴地接受了采访。
en:There&#39;s also Jovita.She&#39;s an amazing woman whose daughterwent missing about 10 years ago,and since then, she has been lookingfor her daughter.In that process, she found outthat first, she was not alone.In the last year alone, 2013,6,000 people disappearedin the state of Rio.But she also found out that in spite of that,Rio had no centralized intelligence systemfor solving missing persons cases.In other Brazilian cities, those systemshave helped solve up to 80 percentof missing persons cases.She started a campaign,and after the secretary of security got 16,000 emailsfrom people asking him to do this,he responded, and started to build a police unitspecializing in those cases.It was open to the public at the end of last month,and Jovita was theregiving interviews and being very fancy.
时间：11:56
zh-cn:接下来，我要说说莱安德罗的故事。莱安德罗是一个居住在里约一个贫民窟的了不起的家伙，他在那个贫民窟创建了一个资源回收项目。去年年底，12月16日，他收到了里约热内卢州政府的驱逐令，他们给了他两周的时间搬离他已经使用了两年的地方。他们的计划是这块地交给一个开发商，这个开发商则打算将它变成一个建筑工地。莱安德罗发起了一场运动，他使用了我们的一个工具，叫做“高压锅”，这也是比亚和约维塔曾经使用过的，然后州政府在圣诞前夕改变了主意。
en:And then, there is Leandro.Leandro is an amazing guyin a slum in Rio,and he created a recycling project in the slum.At the end of last year, December 16,he received an eviction orderby the Rio de Janeiro state governmentgiving him two weeks to leave the spacethat he had been using for two years.The plan was to hand it over to a developer,who planned to turn it into a construction site.Leandro started a campaign using one of our tools,the Pressure Cooker,the same one that Bia and Jovita used,and the state government changed their mindsbefore Christmas Eve.
时间：12:38
zh-cn:这些故事让我很开心，但不仅仅是因为它们有一个美满的结局。它们让我开心是因为它们是一个愉快的开始。比亚学校里的老师和学生家长正在寻找其他能进一步改善这个空间的方法。莱安德罗有着雄心勃勃的计划，他计划将他的模式带到里约的其它低收入社区，而约维塔正在她帮助创建的那个警队做义工。比亚、约维塔和莱安德罗是这样的活生生的例子，这是全世界的公民和城市政府都需要知道的，也就是：我们准备好了。作为公民，我们准备好了去决定我们共同的命运，因为我们知道我们分配权力的方式说明我们是如何真正重视每一个人的，因为我们知道支持和参与当地政治是我们真正关心我们彼此的关系的一个标志，并且我们已经准备好了现在就开始在全世界的城市里行动起来。通过“我们的城市”网络，“我的里约”团队希望跟其他想要在他们自己的城市创建类似项目的人分享我们学到的东西。我们已经开始在圣保罗这样做了，并且取得了令人难以置信的成果，我们想要将它带到世界各地的城市——通过一个以公民为中心的、公民主导的组织的网络，而这些组织可以激励我们、挑战我们并提醒我们去真正参与到我们城市生活中来。
en:These stories make me happy,but not just because they have happy endings.They make me happy because they arehappy beginnings.The teacher and parent community at Bia&#39;s schoolis looking for other ways they could improvethat space even further.Leandro has ambitious plansto take his model to otherlow-income communities in Rio,and Jovita is volunteering at the police unitthat she helped created.Bia, Jovita and Leandroare living examples of somethingthat citizens and city governments around the worldneed to know:We are ready.As citizens, we are readyto decide on our common destinies,because we know that the way we distribute powersays a lot about how we actually value everyone,and because we knowthat enabling and participating in local politicsis a sign that we truly careabout our relations to one another,and we are ready to do thisin cities around the world right now.With the Our Cities network,the Meu Rio teamhopes to share what we have learnedwith other people who want to createsimilar initiatives in their own cities.We have already started doing it in São Paulowith incredible results,and want to take it to cities around the worldthrough a network of citizen-centric,citizen-led organizationsthat can inspire us,challenge us, and remind us to demandreal participation in our city lives.
时间：14:28
zh-cn:最终的决定权在我们手里，我们是想要学校还是停车场，社区回收项目还是建筑工地，孤独或团结，汽车或公交，现在我们有责任去做这些，为我们自己，为我们的家人，也为那些让我们值得生活下去的人们，以及为那惊人的创造力、美丽和奇迹——那些使得我们的城市成为——尽管它们有着各种各样的问题——我们这个时代最伟大的发明的东西。
en:It is up to usto decide whether we want schoolsor parking lots,community-driven recycling projectsor construction sites,loneliness or solidarity, cars or buses,and it is our responsibility to do that now,for ourselves, for our families,for the people who make our lives worth living,and for the incredible creativity,beauty, and wonder that make our cities,in spite of all of their problems,the greatest invention of our time.
时间：15:06
zh-cn:谢谢，感谢你们。
en:Obrigado. Thank you.
时间：15:08
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
