时间： 0:11
zh-cn:你可能想要离近点儿看它。除了表面上你所看到油画它隐含了更多内容是的，它是一个人的丙烯油画但我并没把它漆在画布上。我直接在这个人的身体上作画。
en:You may want to take a closer look.There&#39;s more to this painting than meets the eye.And yes, it&#39;s an acrylic painting of a man,but I didn&#39;t paint it on canvas.I painted it directly on top of the man.
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:我所做的艺术是略过画布本身，如果我想要给你画张肖像，我会把它画在你身上，你的身体之上。这也就意味着你可能最后耳朵里全都是颜料，因为我要在你的耳朵上画一只耳朵。这个场景里的一切，人、衣服、椅子、 墙壁、 都被一层画遮盖着这层画模仿画下的物体，以这种方式，我就能够创造一个三维的场景并使它看起来像一幅二维的画。我可以从任何角度拍摄，而它仍然看起来像是一幅二维图画。我并没有使用图像处理软件。这只是我的三维油画的一张照片而已。
en:What I do in my art is I skip the canvas altogether,and if I want to paint your portrait,I&#39;m painting it on you, physically on you.That also means you&#39;re probably going to end upwith an earful of paint,because I need to paint your ear on your ear.Everything in this scene, the person, the clothes,chairs, wall, gets covered in a mask of paintthat mimics what&#39;s directly below it,and in this way, I&#39;m able to take a three-dimensional sceneand make it look like a two-dimensional painting.I can photograph it from any angle,and it will still look 2D.There&#39;s no Photoshop here.This is just a photoof one of my three-dimensional paintings.
时间： 1:12
zh-cn:你可能想知道我是如何产生这个想法去把人变成绘画。最初，这与人或颜料都无关。而有关于阴影。我着迷于阴影，我想要找到一种可以给予它物质性地存在并在它改变之前把它固定下来。于是我想出了画阴影的想法。我对可以将我所画的阴影隐藏在真实的阴影中乐此不疲，而且它几乎是隐形的直到光改变了，突然之间，我的阴影就被现形在日光之下。
en:You might be wondering how I came up with this ideaof turning people into paintings.But originally, this had nothing to dowith either people or paint.It was about shadows.I was fascinated with the absence of light,and I wanted to find a way that I could give it materialityand pin it down before it changed.I came up with the idea of painting shadows.I loved that I could hide within this shadowmy own painted version,and it would be almost invisibleuntil the light changed, and all of a suddenmy shadow would be brought to the light.
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:我在想还有别的什么是我可以将阴影画上去的，于是我想到了我的朋友伯尼。但我不仅仅只是想画上去一些阴影。我还想要画上一些亮色于是在他的身体上创造出一个灰度的绘画。对于它具体会变成什么样，我有一个非常细致的构想，当我开始画他的时候，我仔细地遵循着我的构想。但有个东西一直在我的眼前闪烁。我不确定我在看什么。于是我往后退一步看它，奇迹出现了。我把我的朋友变成了一幅画。我并不能预料到这件事的发生，当我想要画一个阴影的时候，我会把其他的维度也一并带出来，并将它瓦解，我会画一下画再画一下我的朋友然后将他带回到画中。
en:I wanted to think about what else I could put shadows on,and I thought of my friend Bernie.But I didn&#39;t just want to paint the shadows.I also wanted to paint the highlightsand create a mapping on his body in greyscale.I had a very specific vision of what this would look like,and as I was painting him,I made sure to follow that very closely.But something kept on flickering before my eyes.I wasn&#39;t quite sure what I was looking at.And then when I took that moment to take a step back,magic.I had turned my friend into a painting.I couldn&#39;t have foreseen thatwhen I wanted to paint a shadow,I would pull out this whole other dimension,that I would collapse it,that I would take a painting and make it my friendand then bring him back to a painting.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:不过，我又有点矛盾，因为我对于我所发现的东西太过于兴奋，但我就要从大学毕业并且获得政治科学学位，而且我一直有一个梦想是去华盛顿，在办公室里为政府工作。（笑声）为什么这个要在其中挡路？
en:I was a little conflicted though,because I was so excited about what I&#39;d found,but I was just about to graduate from collegewith a degree in political science,and I&#39;d always had this dreamof going to Washington, D.C.,and sitting at a deskand working in government.(Laughter)Why did this have to get in the way of all that?
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:我做出了一个艰难的决定那就是在毕业之后回家不是去国会山，而是去我父母家的地下室使学习如何作画变成我的工作。我真不知道应该从哪里开始。我最后一次画画，是我十六岁的时候在夏利营里，我并不想要通过复制那些画家或者在一块画布上反复的练习来教自己如何画画，因为这并不是我想要的。而是关于光和空间。
en:I made the tough decisionof going home after graduationand not going up to Capitol Hill,but going down to my parents&#39; basementand making it my job to learn how to paint.I had no idea where to begin.The last time I&#39;d painted,I was 16 years old at summer camp,and I didn&#39;t want to teach myself how to paintby copying the old mastersor stretching a canvasand practicing over and over again on that surface,because that&#39;s not what this project was about for me.It was about space and light.
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:我早期的画布是一些你不会想到能用作画布的东西，比如说油炸食品。要让颜料固定在蛋的油脂上面几乎是不可能。（笑声）要使颜料固定在西柚中的酸更是不可能。它会像隐形墨水一样把颜料从我的画笔上擦去。我一把什么东西画下去，它就会立即消失。
en:My early canvases ended up beingthings that you wouldn&#39;t expect to be used as canvas,like fried food.It&#39;s nearly impossibleto get paint to stick to the grease in an egg.(Laughter)Even harder was getting paint to stickto the acid in a grapefruit.It just would erase my brush strokeslike invisible ink.I&#39;d put something down, and instantly it would be gone.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:如果我想要在人的身体上画画，好吧，我是有点尴尬把人带到我的工作室里面并且让他们看我成天在地下室里面在土司上面画画。在我自己身上练习作画更容易被实施。我最喜欢的模特之一是一个退休的老男人他不仅仅只是不在意坐在那里不动把他的耳朵里面涂满丙烯，并且他对于把他带到一些公共的场合进行展览这件事也并不感到尴尬，比如到地铁上去。
en:And if I wanted to paint on people,well, I was a little bit embarrassedto bring people down into my studioand show them that I spent my days in a basementputting paint on toast.It just seemed like it made more senseto practice by painting on myself.One of my favorite models actually ended up beinga retired old manwho not only didn&#39;t mind sitting stilland getting the paint in his ears,but he also didn&#39;t really have much embarrassmentabout being taken out into very public placesfor exhibition,like the Metro.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:在这一过程中，我收获了许多的快乐。我教自己如何用不同的风格绘画，并且想看看我还能够做些什么。我与 Sheila Vand 合作我们有的绘画创作想法是在一个更不寻常的表面上作画：牛奶。我们有一个游泳池。我们把它装满了牛奶。我们把Sheila也放在牛奶里面。并且开始作画。最后创作出来的图像总是完全出乎意料，因为如果只是画画的话，我对于最后所出来的效果都有一个非常具象的想象，我可以用画去配合我的想象，但当Sheila在牛奶中躺下的时候，一切都会改变。它是在不断变化，与其去与之斗争，我们不如去拥抱它，看牛奶会把我们带向什么样的方向甚至是使初始想法变得更好。有时，当Shila在牛奶里躺下的时候，牛奶会将她胳膊上所有的颜料的洗干，我们的解决方法可能有些笨拙，那就是把你的胳膊藏起来。有一次，她的头发沾染了太多牛奶并且牛奶把她脸上的画都抹干了。那么，好吧，把你的脸藏起来吧。而最后我们得到的作品却是比我们的想象中更高雅的作品，即使这跟一个沮丧的孩子不会画手的时候就把手画在口袋里藏起来所用的策略是一样的。
en:I was having so much fun with this process.I was teaching myself how to paint in all these different styles,and I wanted to see what else I could do with it.I came together with a collaborator, Sheila Vand,and we had the idea of creating paintingsin a more unusual surface,and that was milk.We got a pool. We filled it with milk.We filled it with Sheila. And I began painting.And the images were alwayscompletely unexpected in the end,because I could have a very specific imageabout how it would turn out,I could paint it to match that,but the moment that Sheila laid back into the milk,everything would change.It was in constant flux,and we had to, rather than fight it, embrace it,see where the milk would take usand compensate to make it even better.Sometimes, when Sheila would lay down in the milk,it would wash all the paint off of her arms,and it might seem a little bit clumsy,but our solution would be, okay, hide your arms.And one time, she got so much milk in her hairthat it just smeared all the paint off of her face.All right, well, hide your face.And we ended up with something far more elegantthan we could have imagined,even though this is essentially the same solutionthat a frustrated kid uses when he can&#39;t draw hands,just hiding them in the pockets.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:当我们开始这个牛奶项目的时候，当我开始的时候，我不能预见到我将去向何方从追求我的政治理想在办公室工作到被阴影所迷的神魂颠倒然后把人变成油画和在一池牛奶中的人身上绘画。但话又说回来，我猜也不是不能预见你总可以在熟悉的事物中找到新奇的，只要你愿意抛下你的现状看得更远些，那么你就可以知道隐藏在表面之下，躲在暗处的事物，并认识到有更多不仅仅在表面上的东西。
en:When we started out on the milk project,and when I started out,I couldn&#39;t have foreseen that I would gofrom pursuing my dream in politicsand working at a deskto tripping over a shadowand then turning people into paintingsand painting on people in a pool of milk.But then again, I guess it&#39;s also not unforeseeablethat you can find the strange in the familiar,as long as you&#39;re willing to look beyondwhat&#39;s already been brought to light,that you can see what&#39;s below the surface,hiding in the shadows,and recognize that there can be more therethan meets the eye.
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:50
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
