时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我是一名当代艺术家。我的作品在画廊和博物馆展出。我展出过大量的摄影和摄像，同时我也制作电视节目，书籍和广告。这些作品都有一个共同的理念，就是关于我们对名人和名人文化的定位，以及公众形象的重要性。名人的出身和摄影不可分割。
en:I&#39;m a contemporary artist and I show in art galleries and museums.I show a number of photographs and films,but I also make television programs, books and some advertising,all with the same concept.And it&#39;s about our fixation with celebrity and celebrity culture,and the importance of the image:celebrity is born of photography.
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:我将从七年前我是怎样想到这个理念开始讲起，当时戴安娜王妃刚刚去世。她去世的当天或者是那一刻，英国似乎陷入了停滞，人们决定大规模地、群众性地哀悼她的逝去。我被这个现象所吸引。然后我想：可以有人哪怕只是粗糙地抹去戴安娜的形象么？于是我拿了一把枪，开始对戴安娜的图像射击。但是我不能把她的形象从记忆中抹去，而且当然它也不会从公众的精神中消失。一种力量已经根植。我感觉媒体在用一种有些黄色的方式报道她的去世，比如哪一部分的动脉离开了身体或者她是怎样死于车的后座。我对公众的这种窥探心理很感兴趣，所以我拍摄了这些有些血淋淋的图片。
en:I&#39;m going to start with how I started with this concept seven years ago,when Princess Diana died.There was a sort of a standstill in Britainthe moment of her death,and people decided to mourn her death in a sort of mass way.I was fascinated by this phenomenon,so I wondered:could one erase the image of Diana, actually quite crudely and physically?So, I got a gun and started to shoot at the image of Diana,but I couldn&#39;t erase this from my memoryand certainly it was not being erased from the public psyche.Momentum was being built.The press wrote about her death in rather, I felt, pornographic ways —like, &quot;Which bit of artery left which bit of body?&quot;and &quot;How did she die in the back of the car?&quot; —and I was intrigued by this sort of mass voyeurism,so I made these rather gory images.
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:我接着考虑我能不能真正地代替她的形象。所以我找了一个和戴安娜长得很像的人，让她摆成正确的位置和姿势，根据公众的想象创造了一些图片。人们想知道，戴安娜当时是不是想和男友Dodi结婚。她是否和Dodi相爱？她是不是怀孕了？她是否想要这个孩子？她死时是否已经怀孕？所以我拍摄了关于戴安娜，Dodi和他们想象中的混血小孩的照片。这张照片公开后受到公众强烈抗议。
en:I then went on wondering whether I could actually replace her image,so I got a look-alike of Dianaand posed her in the right positions and anglesand created something that was in, or existed in, the public imagination.So people were wondering: was she going to marry Dodi?Was she in love with him?Was she pregnant? Did she want his baby?Was she pregnant when she died?So I created this image of Diana, Dodi and their imaginary mixed-race childand this image came out, which caused a huge public outcry at the time.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:然后我评论了媒体形象。下面我要开始谈谈媒体形象媒体用把事件细节化等等方法来刺激公众或者观看者，使他们更加意识到自己对名人隐私的窥探欲这张照片是戴安娜看着卡米拉亲吻自己的丈夫。这是一个系列的照片。它们在一个画廊中按顺序展出。相似地，这是戴安娜和男友想象中的小孩的照片。这是另外一个系列。
en:I then went on to make more comments on the media and press imagery,so I started making reference to media imagery —made it grainy, shot through doorways and so on and so forth —to titillate the public or the viewer furtherin terms of trying to make the viewer more aware of their own voyeurism.So, this is an image of Diana looking at Camilla kissing her husband,and this was a sequence of images.And this gets shown in art galleries like this, as a sequence.And similarly with the Di-Dodian baby imagery —this is another art gallery installation.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:我对公众对自己本身观念的怀疑特别感兴趣。比如说，这是Jane Smith和Jo Bloggs，但是你认为这是卡米拉和皇后。我对人们是怎样对一些不尽然真实的东西信以为真的非常着迷，镜头是可以撒谎的。在媒体的狂轰滥炸下，它变得格外简单。我继续进行这个引诱人们的摄影计划，它比现实中的事务更加有趣。与此同时，它把我们带离现实事务。
en:I&#39;m particularly interested in how you can&#39;t rely on your own perception.This is Jane Smith and Jo Bloggs, for instance,but you think it&#39;s Camilla and the Queen,and I&#39;m fascinated how what you think is real isn&#39;t necessarily real.And the camera can lie,and it makes it very, very easywith the mass bombardment of imagery to tell untruths.So, I continued to work on this project of how photography seduces usand is more interesting to look at than the actual real subject matter.And at the same time, it removes us from the real subject matter,
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:它们成为了一些刺激人们的东西。摄影成为了一种戏弄人的东西，刺激着人们窥探的欲望。人对自己不能拥有的东西想要得更多。所以，在摄影中，真正的主体并不存在。这是你更加想要那个人。我想这样一来，名人杂志就可以获得成功。人们越多地看到名人的照片，越想了解他们，但是你并不了解他们，所以你想更加深入地认识他们。
en:and this acts as a sort of titillating thing.So, the photograph becomes this teaser and incites desire and voyeurism;what you can&#39;t have, you want more.In the photograph, the real subject doesn&#39;t existso it makes you want that person more.And that is the way, I think, that celebrity magazines work now:the more pictures you see of these celebrities,the more you feel you know them,but you don&#39;t know themand you want to know them further.
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:皇后经常去看她的马去看她的马（笑声）我在某种程度上制造了形象。在英国，有一种说法叫：“你不能想象皇后上厕所的样子。”所以我尝试者把它表现出来。就是这张图片。
en:Of course, the Queen goes to her stud often to watch her horses ...watch her horses. (Laughter).And then I was sort of making imagery.In England there&#39;s an expression: &quot;you can&#39;t imagine the Queen on the loo.&quot;So I&#39;m trying to penetrate that.Well, here is the image.
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:所有的这些图片都造成了很多大惊小怪。我被评论成一个令人厌恶的艺术家。媒体大篇幅地报道这些图片有多么可怕，这种媒体渲染的循环让我觉得非常有趣。我对媒体们作出评价，我们对事实和信息的了解仅仅来源于媒体因为我们并不了解真正的人。我们中的很少人了解真正的人。但是回到那些媒体身上，他们正在有效地传播我的被批评为丑恶的作品。各种报章、评论都是关于这些作品。摄影在人们真正看到之前就被禁止。政客们参与进来。各种事情，大的标题。
en:All this imagery was creating a lot of fussand I was cited as a disgusting artist. The press were writing about this,giving full pages about how terrible this was.Which I found very interesting that it was going full cycle:I was making comments about the pressand about how we know facts and information only by media —because we don&#39;t know the real people;very few of us know the real people —but it was going back into the pressand they were publicizing, effectively, my filthy work.So, these are broadsheets, tabloids, debates were being had all about this work,films were being banned before people had actually had the look at the work,politicians were getting involved —all sorts of things — great headlines.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:然后突然它开始登上头版。有人付钱让我做封面摄影。突然我就变成了一种可以被接受的人，这也让我很感兴趣。为什么在一段时间被厌恶的—而现在记者们可以向我撒谎以取得我的故事和照片，说我的作品非常好，然而下一分钟又会有关于我的可怕的标题。但是这些瞬间就改变了。
en:Then suddenly, it started to get on front pages.I was being asked and paid to do front covers.Suddenly I was becoming sort of acceptable,which I found also fascinating.How one moment — it was disgusting —journalists would lie to me to get a story or a photograph of me,saying my work was wonderful,and the next minute there were terrible headlines about me.But then this changed suddenly.
时间： 6:05
zh-cn:然后我开始为报刊杂志工作。例如这张为《闲谈者》提供的图片。这是另外一张报纸图片。它其实出现在愚人节那天，但一些人以为它是真的有一天我和一些人一起吃饭，他们正在谈论一张关于皇后的不错的图片当中皇后正在走向William Hill。他们以为它是真的。
en:I then started to work for magazines and newspapers.This was, for example, an image that went into Tatler.This was another newspaper image.It was an April fool actually, and to this day some people think it&#39;s real.I was sitting next to someone at dinner the other day,and they were saying there&#39;s this great image of the Queensitting outside William Hill.They thought it was real.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:我当时就开始探索关于偶像的夸张法，戴安娜和玛丽莲梦露，名人对人们生活的重要性。他们是怎样把自己融入到公众的心中让我们毫无察觉这是怎样发生的我实际上把自己打扮成了名人。这是打扮成戴安娜的我看起来像连环杀人犯Myra Henley （笑声）这是我装扮成的皇后。然后我又制作了一系列玛丽莲梦露最伟大的偶像。我尝试了各种摄影技巧比如从门廊中往外摄来刺激大众只展示某些特定的角度，来创造出现实感，这明显地经过精心制作这是照片中玛丽莲的扮演者，其中手工的成分是巨大的她一点也不像玛丽莲梦露但当我们给她戴上假发和化妆后，她看上去就和玛丽莲梦露一模一样，甚至连他的丈夫都认不出来，认不出照片中这个扮演者这十分有趣。这一系列照片都在画廊中展览。我制作了一本书。我曾经为BBC制作了一系列电视节目。电视节目中的静态图片也收入了书中。
en:I was exploring, at the time, the hyperbole of icons —and Diana and Marilyn — and the importance of celebrity in our lives.How they wheedle their way into the collective psychewithout us even knowing,and how that should happen.I explored with actually dressing up as the celebrities myself.There&#39;s me as Diana —I look like the mass murderer Myra Hindley, I think, in this one. (Laughter).And me as the Queen.I then continued on to make a whole body of work about Marilyn —the biggest icon of all —and trying to titillate by shooting through doorways and shutters and so on and so forth,and only showing certain angles to create a reality that, obviously,is completely constructed.This is the look-alike, so the crafting elements of this is completely enormous.She looks nothing like Marilyn,but by the time we&#39;ve made her up and put wigs and makeup on,she looks exactly like Marilyn,to the extent that her husband couldn&#39;t recognize her —or recognize this look-alike — in these photographs,which I find quite interesting.So, all this work is getting shown in art galleries.Then I made a book.I was also making a TV series for the BBC at the time.Stills from the TV series went into this book.
时间： 7:54
zh-cn:但是这里有一个法律问题，因为照片看上去像真的但是怎么克服这个问题呢？它明显地在评论我们现在的文化，也就是我们无法辨别真假。当我们看一件东西的时候，怎样才能分辨真假呢？从我的看法，能发表这些照片是很重要的但同时它们制造疑惑代表了我的意愿但是对我所合作的媒介来说它们是有问题的。于是我为所有作品都加上了免责声明，然后我为这些欧洲或者英国名人编写一个小故事一次评价这些公众人物。你知道，托尼·布莱尔私底下和他的时尚的老师做了什么？还有公众的观念关于本拉登、萨达姆，伊拉克战争前的环节。君主制政体会走向何方因为明显地，英国公众更加支持威廉王子而不是查尔斯。
en:But there was a real legal problem because it looks real,but how do you get over that?Because obviously it&#39;s making a comment about our culture right now:that we can&#39;t tell what&#39;s real.How do we know when we&#39;re looking at something whether it&#39;s real or not?So, from my point of view, it&#39;s important to publish it,but at the same time it does cause a confusion —intentional on my behalf,but problematic for any outlet that I&#39;m working with.So a big disclaimer is put on everything that I do,and I made narratives about all the European or Brit celebritiesand comments about our public figures.You know, what does Tony Blair get up to in private with his fashion guru?And also dealing with the perceptions that are put aboutBin Laden, Saddam Hussein, the links that were put about pre-Iraq war.And what is going to happen to the monarchy?Because obviously the British public,I think, would prefer William to Charles on the throne.
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:我在工作中遭遇的就是这些公众的愿望，或者是欲望。我并不是对名人本人感兴趣。我感兴趣的是人们对于名人的看法。用一些很演员来扮演名人，他们表现得很好。人们分辨不出他们是真是假
en:And it&#39;s that wish, or that desire, that I suppose I&#39;m dealing with in my work.I&#39;m not really interested in the celebrity themselves.I&#39;m interested in the perception of the celebrity.And with some look-alikes, they are so goodyou don&#39;t know whether they&#39;re real or not.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:我曾经做过可口可乐公司Schweppes饮料的广告，它在法律方面非常有趣。这是一个高度商业的广告。但对我来说难度很高，因为它同时也是我的艺术作品。我当时想，我应不应该制作广告呢？所以我下决心不让艺术向商业妥协，这件作品的整体统一性依然保持一致。但意义有所改变，因为有了商标在图片上，人们就会想到这是在为推广一种产品推广产品就是这幅图的全部。当你去掉商标，各种解释的可能都产生了使这幅作品不确定。相反当做广告时，这幅作品的意义是确定的。
en:I did an advertising campaign for Schweppes, which is Coca-Cola,and so that was very interesting in terms of the legalities.It&#39;s highly commercial.But it was a difficulty for me — because this is my artwork;should I do advertising? — at the time.So I made sure the work was not compromised in any wayand that the integrity of the work remained the same.But the meanings changed in the sense that with the logo on,you&#39;re closing all the lines of interpretation down to selling a productand that&#39;s all you&#39;re doing.When you take the logo off, you&#39;re opening up the interpretationsand making the work inconclusive,opposed to conclusive when you are advertising.
时间：10:36
zh-cn:这幅图其实很有趣这是三年前拍摄的卡米拉在她的婚纱中最近在卡米拉和查尔斯的婚礼前期，它再次被使用这是布莱尔和切丽。同样我们需要小心法律问题。这明显是一个大的商业性公司，所以我们做了这样一个“嘘，你知道这不是真的他们”放在图片的旁边这是撒切尔夫人探望在狱中的杰弗里·阿彻
en:This image is quite interesting, actually,because I think we made it three years ago.And it&#39;s Camilla in her wedding dress, which, again,nearly got re-used now, recently prior to her wedding.Tony Blair and Cherie. And again, the legalities — we had to be very careful.It&#39;s obviously a very big commercial company, and so this little,&quot;Shh — it&#39;s not really them,&quot;was put on the side of the imagery.And Margaret Thatcher visiting Jeffery Archer in jail.
时间：11:11
zh-cn:塞尔福里奇百货公司让我设计一系列橱窗我建造了一个桑拿浴，创造了一些小场景让外形相似的演员来表演名人橱窗全部充满蒸气浴这是布莱尔在阅读和练习他的演讲我让他们和Carole Caplin一起做瑜伽Sven和在当时与他有绯闻的Ulrika Jonsson在一起这让百货公司取得了巨大成功因为第二天所有媒体都刊登了照片几乎每一份大小报刊这造成了堵塞道路的问题因为警察尝试着疏散围观人群但是非常好玩，表演对我来说非常美好另外，人们不停地照相使图片很快地传播到全球媒体们采访着，我给我的书签名 （笑声）
en:I then was asked by Selfridges to do a series of windows for them,so I built a sauna bath in one of their windows and created little scenes —live scenes with look-alikes inside the windows,and the windows were all steamed up.So, it&#39;s Tony Blair reading and practicing his speech;I&#39;ve got them doing yoga inside there with Carole Caplin;Sven making out with Ulrika Jonsson, who he was having an affair with at that time.This was a huge success for thembecause the imagery got shown in the press the day afterin every single newspaper, broadsheets and tabloids.It was a bit of a road stopper, which was problematicbecause the police kept on trying to clear away the crowds,but huge fun — it was great for me to do a performance.Also, people were taking photographs of this,so it was being texted around the world extremely quickly, all this imagery.And the press were interviewing, and I was signing my book. (Laughter).
时间：12:20
zh-cn:我现在正在制作我的新书针对全球化的市场我的前一本书只是针对英国市场但我设想这可以被称作幽默我是来自一种不幽默的背景，你知道，有着严肃的意向。但后来突然我的作品都变得好笑了。我认为我的作品被理解为幽默没有关系这也是我的一种处理媒体形象重要性的方式我们如何通过图片阅读信息。这是得到信息的最快方式。要正确构建这样的图片会非常困难构建标志性的照片需要技巧。
en:Further imagery. I&#39;m making a new book now with Taschenthat I&#39;m working on really for a sort of global market —my previous book was only for the U.K. market —that I suppose it could be called humorous.I suppose I come from a sort of non-humorous backgroundwith serious intent,and then suddenly my work is funny.And I think it doesn&#39;t really matter that my work is considered humorous, in a way;I think it&#39;s a way in for me to deal with the importance of imageryand how we read all our information through imagery.It&#39;s an extremely fast way of getting information.It&#39;s extremely difficult if it&#39;s constructed correctly,and there are techniques of constructing iconic imagery.
时间：13:10
zh-cn:比如这幅图，恰到好处因为它正好概括了埃尔顿私底下可能做的事。这是可能发生在萨达姆身上的这是小布什上下颠倒地在读可兰经这是小布什的打靶练习他在射击本拉登和迈克·摩尔。然后你换掉他的射击对象，它变得有些冷酷，也许不那么让人亲近 （笑声）布莱尔被用作了阶梯。拉姆斯菲尔德和布什在笑，后面是Abu Ghraib的照片这是布什的严肃和机智。这是对现实事件的评价就像我们现在所知道的监狱中发生的事件。实际上小布什和布莱尔在此期间一直在休闲享受。
en:This image, for example, is sort of spot-onbecause it exactly sums up what Elton may be doing in private,and also what might be happening with Saddam Hussein, and George Bushreading the Koran upside-down.For example, George Bush target practice —shooting at Bin Laden and Michael Moore.And then you change the photograph he&#39;s shooting at,and it suddenly becomes rather grim and maybe less accessible. (Laughter).Tony Blair being used as a mounting block,and Rumsfeld and Bush laughing with some Abu Ghraib photos behind,and the seriousness, or the intellect, of Bush.And also, commenting on the behind the scenes —well, as we know now — what goes on in prisons.And in fact, George Bush and Tony Blairare having great fun during all of this.
时间：14:10
zh-cn:这些评论根据我们对名人的看法杰克·尼克尔森在他的名人生活中在干什么他其实有一点交通暴躁情绪，某一天他用高尔夫球杆击打一个司机其实要找到这些特型演员很不容易，所以我长期性地在街上接触不同的人，试着让人们来参与到我的摄影中。有时我邀请真正的名人，把他们误认为只是长得像的，这令人非常尴尬。 （笑声）
en:And really commenting, you know,based on the perception we have of the celebrities.What Jack Nicholson might be up to in his celebrity life,and the fact that he tried to ... he had a bit of road rageand golf-clubbed a driver the other day.I mean, it&#39;s extremely difficult to find these look-alikes,so I&#39;m constantly going up to people in the streetand trying to ask people to comeand be in one of my photographs or films.And sometimes asking the real celebrity,mistaking them for someone who just looks like the real person,which is highly embarrassing. (Laughter).
时间：14:52
zh-cn:我和卫报以话题的形式合作在报纸上每周一页以话题为工作也非常有趣。杰米·奥利弗和学校午餐；布什和布莱尔对融入穆斯林文化感到困难；狩猎事件皇家家庭拒绝停滞狩猎。海啸事件。这是哈里布莱尔看戈登·布朗，我觉得很有意思。赖斯和布什。我专门讲一下这幅图我一年前拍摄的它，意义已有所改变一件可怕的事情发生了。在此之前恐惧就潜伏在我们头脑里。这就是为什么它于一年前拍摄还有它现在代表什么。最后请大家看这些片段。
en:I&#39;ve also been working with The Guardian on a topical basis —a page a week in their newspaper —which has been very interesting, working topically.So, Jamie Oliver and school dinners;Bush and Blair having difficulty getting alongside Muslim culture;the whole of the hunting issue,and the royal family refusing to stop hunting;and the tsunami issues; and obviously Harry;Blair&#39;s views on Gordon Brown, which I find very interesting;Condi and Bush.This image I&#39;ve decided to show having a reservation about it.I made it a year ago. And just how meanings change,and there were a terrible thing that has happened,but the fear is lurking around in our minds prior to that.That&#39;s why this image was made one year ago,and what it means today.So, I&#39;ll leave you with these clips to have a look. (Music)
时间：17:29
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Chris Anderson: Thank you.
