时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这位宝宝在想什么？如果你在30年前问这个问题，大多数人，包括心理学家，会告诉你这个小孩没有理性的，没逻辑, 以自我为中心——他不会站在他人的角度思考或者不明白因果关系。在过去的20年里，发育学彻底地颠覆了这个观念。从某些角度来看，这个宝宝的思维和大多数聪明的科学家的思维相同。
en:What is going onin this baby&#39;s mind?If you&#39;d asked people this 30 years ago,most people, including psychologists,would have said that this baby was irrational,illogical, egocentric —that he couldn&#39;t take the perspective of another personor understand cause and effect.In the last 20 years,developmental science has completely overturned that picture.So in some ways,we think that this baby&#39;s thinkingis like the thinking of the most brilliant scientists.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:我可以举个这样的例子。这位宝宝可能在思考某件事，在他的脑袋瓜中，他想要弄清楚其他婴儿在想些什么。毕竟，我们最难办到的一件事是理解他人的想法和感觉。而最难办到的事是理解他人的想法和感觉和我们自己的不完全一致。任何追寻过政治的都可以证明了解他人的想法是多么困难。我们想要知道宝宝和小孩子能否理解其他人的奥秘。目前的问题是: 我们如何与宝宝们沟通呢？他们还不会说话，当你问一个三岁的小孩他在想什么时，他的回答将会是一串精彩的意识流独白关于小型木马，生日，或是类似的答案。那我们应该如何向他们提问呢？
en:Let me give you just one example of this.One thing that this baby could be thinking about,that could be going on in his mind,is trying to figure outwhat&#39;s going on in the mind of that other baby.After all, one of the things that&#39;s hardest for all of us to dois to figure out what other people are thinking and feeling.And maybe the hardest thing of allis to figure out that what other people think and feelisn&#39;t actually exactly like what we think and feel.Anyone who&#39;s followed politics can testifyto how hard that is for some people to get.We wanted to knowif babies and young childrencould understand this really profound thing about other people.Now the question is: How could we ask them?Babies, after all, can&#39;t talk,and if you ask a three year-oldto tell you what he thinks,what you&#39;ll get is a beautiful stream of consciousness monologueabout ponies and birthdays and things like that.So how do we actually ask them the question?
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:秘密居然是花椰菜。我们用的方法是——我的一个学生，贝蒂拉帕求利和我给了这些宝宝们两碗食物：一碗生的花椰菜一碗是好吃的金鱼饼干。所有的宝宝,包括在柏克莱的那些，选择了饼干而不是生的花椰菜。（笑声）但是贝蒂随后品尝了这两种食物。然后作出了喜欢或不喜欢的表情。有一半的情况，她的反应和宝宝还有正常人一样——喜欢饼干而不喜欢花椰菜的表情。但另一半情况，她是吃一点花椰菜然后说：&quot;Mmmmm，花椰菜。我吃了花椰菜。&quot;然后当她吃到饼干的时候，她说：&quot;饼干真难吃。我居然吃了饼干。真恶心。&quot;所以她假装自己喜欢吃的和宝宝们喜欢的恰恰相反。我们对15个月和18个月大的宝宝们做了这个实验。贝蒂将自己的手伸出说：“能给我点吗？&quot;
en:Well it turns out that the secret was broccoli.What we did — Betty Rapacholi, who was one of my students, and I —was actually to give the babies two bowls of food:one bowl of raw broccoliand one bowl of delicious goldfish crackers.Now all of the babies, even in Berkley,like the crackers and don&#39;t like the raw broccoli.(Laughter)But then what Betty didwas to take a little taste of food from each bowl.And she would act as if she liked it or she didn&#39;t.So half the time, she actedas if she liked the crackers and didn&#39;t like the broccoli —just like a baby and any other sane person.But half the time,what she would do is take a little bit of the broccoliand go, &quot;Mmmmm, broccoli.I tasted the broccoli. Mmmmm.&quot;And then she would take a little bit of the crackers,and she&#39;d go, &quot;Eww, yuck, crackers.I tasted the crackers. Eww, yuck.&quot;So she&#39;d act as if what she wantedwas just the opposite of what the babies wanted.We did this with 15 and 18 month-old babies.And then she would simply put her hand out and say,&quot;Can you give me some?&quot;
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:但大家都想知道：宝宝会给她什么，是贝蒂喜欢的还是自己喜欢的？让人惊讶的是18岁大的宝宝，虽然还没有开始走路和说话，给了贝蒂饼干如果她喜欢饼干，但给了她花椰菜如果她喜欢的是花椰菜。另一方面，15岁大的宝宝会望着贝蒂如果她说自己喜欢花椰菜，宝宝们还是不知道。但在观察了一段时间之后，他们给了贝蒂饼干，因为觉得所有人都会喜欢，所以这项实验有两个值得关注的发现。首先是这些18个月大的孩子已经开始注意一个人性的奥秘，那就是我们想要的东西不同。还有, 他们意识到自己应该做点帮助他人达成愿望的事。
en:So the question is: What would the baby give her,what they liked or what she liked?And the remarkable thing was that 18 month-old babies,just barely walking and talking,would give her the crackers if she liked the crackers,but they would give her the broccoli if she liked the broccoli.On the other hand,15 month-olds would stare at her for a long timeif she acted as if she liked the broccoli,like they couldn&#39;t figure this out.But then after they stared for a long time,they would just give her the crackers,what they thought everybody must like.So there are two really remarkable things about this.The first one is that these little 18 month-old babieshave already discoveredthis really profound fact about human nature,that we don&#39;t always want the same thing.And what&#39;s more, they felt that they should actually do thingsto help other people get what they wanted.
时间： 3:30
zh-cn:但更让人值得关注的是，15个月大的宝宝们没有这种意识说明18月大的懂得了一个人性的奥秘而当他们3个月前还没有意识到。所以宝宝们知道的和学到的比我们想象中要多得多。而只是在过去20年里的上百项调查的其中之一证明了这个观点。
en:Even more remarkably though,the fact that 15 month-olds didn&#39;t do thissuggests that these 18 month-olds had learnedthis deep, profound fact about human naturein the three months from when they were 15 months old.So children both know more and learn morethan we ever would have thought.And this is just one of hundreds and hundreds of studies over the last 20 yearsthat&#39;s actually demonstrated it.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:但是你也许想要问：小孩子为什么学到这么多呢？在这么短的时间里他们怎么能办得到呢？我是说, 如果你只从表面来观察这些宝宝，他们似乎没什么用。事实上在很多方面，他们比没用还没用。因为我们需要花如此多的时间和经历才能让他们生存。如果我们从进化的角度来寻找我们为什么要花这么多时间来照料这些没用的宝宝们的答案时，我们找到了一个答案。如果我们观察各种不同种类的动物，不光是灵长类，包括其它哺乳动物和鸟类，还有有袋目哺乳动物比如像袋鼠和袋熊，结果是动物的孩童时期长度和它们的脑部大小与身体的比例还有它们的智慧和灵敏是存在关系的。
en:The question you might ask though is:Why do children learn so much?And how is it possible for them to learn so muchin such a short time?I mean, after all, if you look at babies superficially,they seem pretty useless.And actually in many ways, they&#39;re worse than useless,because we have to put so much time and energyinto just keeping them alive.But if we turn to evolutionfor an answer to this puzzleof why we spend so much timetaking care of useless babies,it turns out that there&#39;s actually an answer.If we look across many, many different species of animals,not just us primates,but also including other mammals, birds,even marsupialslike kangaroos and wombats,it turns out that there&#39;s a relationshipbetween how long a childhood a species hasand how big their brains are compared to their bodiesand how smart and flexible they are.
时间： 4:49
zh-cn:图片上的鸟可以证明这个观点。左边是一只新喀里多尼亚岛的乌鸦。像乌鸦, 其它雅科, 渡鸦, 和秃鼻乌鸦那类的鸟，都非常的聪明。它们在一些方面就像猩猩一样聪明。这只鸟是科学杂志的封面它学会了如何用工具来取得食物。另一张图片上的鸟，是我们的朋友家养鸡。鸡，鸭，鹅，火鸡基本上可以说是笨得不能再笨。它们虽然很擅长啄食，但其它方面就不行了。可这些幼鸟，我是说新喀里多尼亚岛的幼年乌鸦，它们刚长羽毛。在长达两年的时间里它们完全依赖妈妈来喂它们虫子来喂它们虫子，而两年对于一只鸟的生命来说是非常长的一段时间。鸡相对来说要成长的较快只需要两个月的时间。乌鸦成为科学杂志封面的原因是因为它们的童年而鸡的下场是变成锅里的汤。
en:And sort of the posterbirds for this idea are the birds up there.On one sideis a New Caledonian crow.And crows and other corvidae, ravens, rooks and so forth,are incredibly smart birds.They&#39;re as smart as chimpanzees in some respects.And this is a bird on the cover of sciencewho&#39;s learned how to use a tool to get food.On the other hand,we have our friend the domestic chicken.And chickens and ducks and geese and turkeysare basically as dumb as dumps.So they&#39;re very, very good at pecking for grain,and they&#39;re not much good at doing anything else.Well it turns out that the babies,the New Caledonian crow babies, are fledglings.They depend on their momsto drop worms in their little open mouthsfor as long as two years,which is a really long time in the life of a bird.Whereas the chickens are actually maturewithin a couple of months.So childhood is the reasonwhy the crows end up on the cover of Scienceand the chickens end up in the soup pot.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:在它们两年的童年里有某些因素似乎和知识与学习有关系。原因究竟是什么呢?像鸡这类的动物,好像只擅长把某一件事做好。那件事就是在一个环境中啄食。像乌鸦这种动物，不擅长做好某件事，但在适应不同的环境方面它们非常擅长。
en:There&#39;s something about that long childhoodthat seems to be connectedto knowledge and learning.Well what kind of explanation could we have for this?Well some animals, like the chicken,seem to be beautifully suitedto doing just one thing very well.So they seem to be beautifully suitedto pecking grain in one environment.Other creatures, like the crows,aren&#39;t very good at doing anything in particular,but they&#39;re extremely goodat learning about laws of different environments.
时间： 6:18
zh-cn:当然，我们人类在到了像乌鸦那种穷途末路时，我们比它们更能想到解决的办法。我们的大脑和四肢的比例目前还没有任何动物能超过。我们有更多的智慧和更强的适应性，可以学到更多知识，还能在更多不同的环境下生存，人类在地球各处居住，甚至上了外太空。我们的孩子对我们的依赖的时间超过任何动物对父母的依赖，我儿子现年23岁。（笑声）在他们23岁之前，我们还会把食物送到他们的嘴里。
en:And of course, we human beingsare way out on the end of the distribution like the crows.We have bigger brains relative to our bodiesby far than any other animal.We&#39;re smarter, we&#39;re more flexible,we can learn more,we survive in more different environments,we migrated to cover the world and even go to outer space.And our babies and children are dependent on usfor much longer than the babies of any other species.My son is 23.(Laughter)And at least until they&#39;re 23,we&#39;re still popping those wormsinto those little open mouths.
时间： 6:53
zh-cn:我们为什么看到这样的一个关联？答案是学习的技巧，它非常有用，对成功也很有帮助，但也有它的不利。这个不利便是在你学会之前，你将无法提供任何帮助。当一只乳齿象向你冲来的时候你不会去想“我到底应该用矛来刺还是用弹弓来射？”你在乳齿象出现之前就需要知道应该怎么做。而进化论似乎已经解决了这个问题通过劳动分工。所以普遍看法是早期的时候我们是被保护着的。我们不需要做任何事。只学就够了。但当我们成年后，可以把幼年和童年时学到的东西加以运用并让这些知识在社会中起到作用。
en:All right, why would we see this correlation?Well an idea is that that strategy, that learning strategy,is an extremely powerful, great strategy for getting on in the world,but it has one big disadvantage.And that one big disadvantageis that, until you actually do all that learning,you&#39;re going to be helpless.So you don&#39;t want to have the mastodon charging at youand be saying to yourself,&quot;A slingshot or maybe a spear might work. Which would actually be better?&quot;You want to know all thatbefore the mastodons actually show up.And the way the evolutions seems to have solved that problemis with a kind of division of labor.So the idea is that we have this early period when we&#39;re completely protected.We don&#39;t have to do anything. All we have to do is learn.And then as adults,we can take all those things that we learned when we were babies and childrenand actually put them to work to do things out there in the world.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:第一种解释是婴儿和小孩子就好比研究和开发人类的部门一样。他们在受保护的人群。只需要寻找和学习新的知识，而我们成年人扮演的是制作和营销的角色。我们需要把所有从孩子那里学到的知识应用到现实生活里。另一种解释反对把婴儿和小孩子当作是有缺陷的成人而是把他们当作是处于不同的发展时段但是归类于同一种类就像虫蛹和蝴蝶那样不过他们是比蝴蝶要智慧得多因为孩子们可以在花园中游走与探索而我们大人就是虫蛹在我们狭窄的道路上慢慢地爬行。
en:So one way of thinking about itis that babies and young childrenare like the research and development division of the human species.So they&#39;re the protected blue sky guyswho just have to go out and learn and have good ideas,and we&#39;re production and marketing.We have to take all those ideasthat we learned when we were childrenand actually put them to use.Another way of thinking about itis instead of thinking of babies and childrenas being like defective grownups,we should think about themas being a different developmental stage of the same species —kind of like caterpillars and butterflies —except that they&#39;re actually the brilliant butterflieswho are flitting around the garden and exploring,and we&#39;re the caterpillarswho are inching along our narrow, grownup, adult path.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:如果第二种解释是真的。那这些小宝宝天生就是学习的料从进化论来看，他们天生就在学习，学习就是他们的本性——我们可以想象他们可能有非常巧妙的学习技巧事实上，小孩子的大脑仿佛是整个星球上最强的计算机.但真正的计算机其实暂时已经无法超越了。最近，在我们对机器学习的理解上发生了一场革命。这场革命完全是靠这个人的想法，他就是神父托马斯贝斯，18世纪时的一个统计学家和数学家。他最大的贡献是通过数学使用机率定理描述了科学家探索世界的方式，并将其个性化。科学家们的方法是先准备一个假设然后为该假设找根据根据会使他们改变假设然后他们就开始新的假设过程就是这样。贝斯将该过程转换为一个数学公式。数学在目前最好的机器学习项目开发中起了重要作用。大约10年前，我提出过小孩的思考过程和科学家相同。
en:If this is true, if these babies are designed to learn —and this evolutionary story would say children are for learning,that&#39;s what they&#39;re for —we might expectthat they would have really powerful learning mechanisms.And in fact, the baby&#39;s brainseems to be the most powerful learning computeron the planet.But real computers are actually getting to be a lot better.And there&#39;s been a revolutionin our understanding of machine learning recently.And it all depends on the ideas of this guy,the Reverend Thomas Bayes,who was a statistician and mathematician in the 18th century.And essentially what Bayes didwas to provide a mathematical wayusing probability theoryto characterize, describe,the way that scientists find out about the world.So what scientists dois they have a hypothesis that they think might be likely to start with.They go out and test it against the evidence.The evidence makes them change that hypothesis.Then they test that new hypothesisand so on and so forth.And what Bayes showed was a mathematical way that you could do that.And that mathematics is at the coreof the best machine learning programs that we have now.And some 10 years ago,I suggested that babies might be doing the same thing.
时间： 9:38
zh-cn:所以你想知道在他们漂亮的棕色眼睛下面是什么样的一个世界，我有自己的看法。这是贝斯神父的笔记。我认为这些小孩子在做复杂的计算通过自定的条件机率来理解世间万物。当然，这个要实际说明很困难。因为就算你问大人统计问题，他们也会一问三不知。那孩子们怎么可能会做统计呢？
en:So if you want to know what&#39;s going onunderneath those beautiful brown eyes,I think it actually looks something like this.This is Reverend Bayes&#39;s notebook.So I think those babies are actually making complicated calculationswith conditional probabilities that they&#39;re revisingto figure out how the world works.All right, now that might seem like an even taller order to actually demonstrate.Because after all, if you ask even grownups about statistics,they look extremely stupid.How could it be that children are doing statistics?
时间：10:05
zh-cn:为了证明这个观点我们用了一个叫做玩具侦探的仪器如果你在这个箱子上放一些东西，其它的上面不放那它可以发光还伴有音乐。用这个简单的仪器，我的实验和其它实验做了几十项研究证明了小孩子们在理解世间万物上是多么得聪明。我举一个例子一个和我学生图玛库什纳做的实验。单看这个仪器，你也许觉得让它开始运作的方式是将一块积木摆在上面但这个仪器其实有点奇怪因为你如果在仪器的上方摇摆一块积木三次，很多人一开始都不会这样做，那这个仪器会被启动两次。然而，如果你把积木摆在仪器的上面六次，那只有两次会启动。所以说看似不大可能发生的假设其实有更有力的证据。摇摆看起来比其它方法更有效我们做了这样的实验；给了4岁的孩子这个线索然后问他们怎么才能启动仪器。这些孩子当然选择用我们提供的线索将手中的东西对着仪器摇。
en:So to test this we used a machine that we havecalled the Blicket Detector.This is a box that lights up and plays musicwhen you put some things on it and not others.And using this very simple machine,my lab and others have done dozens of studiesshowing just how good babies areat learning about the world.Let me mention just onethat we did with Tumar Kushner, my student.If I showed you this detector,you would be likely to think to begin withthat the way to make the detector gowould be to put a block on top of the detector.But actually, this detectorworks in a bit of a strange way.Because if you wave a block over the top of the detector,something you wouldn&#39;t ever think of to begin with,the detector will actually activate two out of three times.Whereas, if you do the likely thing, put the block on the detector,it will only activate two out of six times.So the unlikely hypothesisactually has stronger evidence.It looks as if the wavingis a more effective strategy than the other strategy.So we did just this; we gave four year-olds this pattern of evidence,and we just asked them to make it go.And sure enough, the four year-olds used the evidenceto wave the object on top of the detector.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:实验过程中有两个有趣的发现。首先，记住这些孩子只有四岁。他们才刚刚学会数数。但是在没有意识的情况下，他们会用复杂的计算来算出条件机率。第二个有趣的发现是他们会用提供的线索来寻找一个观点，对世界定一个假设,一个不太能站得住脚的假设。在我实验室里的类似研究，我们发现4岁的小孩在相同的任务下，比大人更擅长找那个不大可能发生的假设。在这些情况下，小孩子用统计来了解世界，但科学家会做实验。所以我们想知道小孩会不会也在做实验。小孩做的实验我们称它为“尝试每一种可能”或者是“玩一玩。”
en:Now there are two things that are really interesting about this.The first one is, again, remember, these are four year-olds.They&#39;re just learning how to count.But unconsciously,they&#39;re doing these quite complicated calculationsthat will give them a conditional probability measure.And the other interesting thingis that they&#39;re using that evidenceto get to an idea, get to a hypothesis about the world,that seems very unlikely to begin with.And in studies we&#39;ve just been doing in my lab, similar studies,we&#39;ve show that four year-olds are actually betterat finding out an unlikely hypothesisthan adults are when we give them exactly the same task.So in these circumstances,the children are using statistics to find out about the world,but after all, scientists also do experiments,and we wanted to see if children are doing experiments.When children do experiments we call it &quot;getting into everything&quot;or else &quot;playing.&quot;
时间：12:06
zh-cn:最近有很多有意思的研究显示了孩子的随意尝试的确可以作为一个研究项目。这是克里斯汀·勒加雷的一项实验。克里斯汀使用了了我们的玩具侦探仪器。她向孩子展示黄色才能启动仪器，红色不行，然后又向孩子们展示了一个奇怪现象。你等一下就可以看到这个小男孩会在两分钟内测试五个假设。
en:And there&#39;s been a bunch of interesting studies recentlythat have shown this playing aroundis really a kind of experimental research program.Here&#39;s one from Cristine Legare&#39;s lab.What Cristine did was use our Blicket Detectors.And what she did was show childrenthat yellow ones made it go and red ones didn&#39;t,and then she showed them an anomaly.And what you&#39;ll seeis that this little boy will go through five hypothesesin the space of two minutes.
时间：12:35
zh-cn:（视频) 这个怎么样？这边也一样。
en:(Video) Boy: How about this?Same as the other side.
时间：12:42
zh-cn:所以他的第一个假设已经被否认了。
en:Alison Gopnik: Okay, so his first hypothesis has just been falsified.
时间：12:51
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:53
zh-cn:这个亮了，这个没有。
en:Boy: This one lighted up, and this one nothing.
时间：12:56
zh-cn:看到没有，他开始记笔记了。
en:AG: Okay, he&#39;s got his experimental notebook out.
时间：13:02
zh-cn:这盏灯为什么亮呢。（笑声）我不知道。
en:Boy: What&#39;s making this light up.(Laughter)I don&#39;t know.
时间：13:18
zh-cn:科学家们都见过这种绝望的表情。
en:AG: Every scientist will recognize that expression of despair.
时间：13:22
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：13:25
zh-cn:我知道了。这个要这样，然后这个是这样。
en:Boy: Oh, it&#39;s because this needs to be like this,and this needs to be like this.
时间：13:33
zh-cn:第二个假设。
en:AG: Okay, hypothesis two.
时间：13:36
zh-cn:我知道了。哦。
en:Boy: That&#39;s why.Oh.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：13:45
zh-cn:他有了第三个想法。他告诉实验者这样做，试着把它放在一边。还是不行
en:AG: Now this is his next idea.He told the experimenter to do this,to try putting it out onto the other location.Not working either.
时间：13:58
zh-cn:男孩：啊，因为只有这里会亮，这里不会盒子下面呢这里有电，但这边没电。
en:Boy: Oh, because the light goes only to here,not here.Oh, the bottom of this boxhas electricity in here,but this doesn&#39;t have electricity.
时间：14:12
zh-cn:他的第四个假设。
en:AG: Okay, that&#39;s a fourth hypothesis.
时间：14:14
zh-cn:男孩：亮了。你要在上面放四个。你在这上面摆四个这上面摆两个。
en:Boy: It&#39;s lighting up.So when you put four.So you put four on this one to make it light upand two on this one to make it light up.
时间：14:27
zh-cn:测试他的第五个假设。
en:AG: Okay,there&#39;s his fifth hypothesis.
时间：14:29
zh-cn:这个小男孩——特别可爱，说话也很清楚，但是克里斯汀的发现其实很正常。如果你在小孩玩的时候观察他们，或是要他们回答某个问题，他们会做一系列的尝试。这对于四岁的儿童来说很普遍。
en:Now that is a particularly —that is a particularly adorable and articulate little boy,but what Cristine discovered is this is actually quite typical.If you look at the way children play, when you ask them to explain something,what they really do is do a series of experiments.This is actually pretty typical of four year-olds.
时间：14:47
zh-cn:当小孩子是什么样一种经历呢？像那些聪明的蝴蝶一样在两分钟内测试五个假设？如果你问心理学家和哲学家，他们大部分说了婴儿和小孩子几乎在他们的意识方面没有任何意识。而我的看法确恰恰相反。我认为小孩子的意识事实上比我们大人的要强得多。我们知道的一些关于大人的意识的事情。大人的注意力和意识就像一盏聚光灯。但是大人会自己决定哪些事有关，哪些事重要，哪些事值得我们注意。我们对所关注事情的意识变得非常明亮，非常清晰，其它事就反而比较暗淡。我们甚至大概知道我们的大脑为什么指挥我们这样做。
en:Well, what&#39;s it like to be this kind of creature?What&#39;s it like to be one of these brilliant butterflieswho can test five hypotheses in two minutes?Well, if you go back to those psychologists and philosophers,a lot of them have saidthat babies and young children were barely consciousif they were conscious at all.And I think just the opposite is true.I think babies and children are actually more conscious than we are as adults.Now here&#39;s what we know about how adult consciousness works.And adults&#39; attention and consciousnesslook kind of like a spotlight.So what happens for adultsis we decide that something&#39;s relevant or important,we should pay attention to it.Our consciousness of that thing that we&#39;re attending tobecomes extremely bright and vivid,and everything else sort of goes dark.And we even know something about the way the brain does this.
时间：15:33
zh-cn:那当我们集中精力时前额的皮层，在我们大脑中起着执行的作用，发出一个信号让我们脑部的一小部分变得更灵活，更柔软，更会学习，让脑部的其它部分全部休息。我们的注意力非常集中，有目的。如果对婴儿和小孩注意力的进行观察，我们会发现他们完全和我们不一样。我觉得婴儿和小孩他们意识更像一盏灯笼而不像聚光灯。所以他们不擅长将问题简化。但他们非常在行在同一时间里吸收不同来源提供的信息。如果你研究他们的大脑，你就会看到里面有大量的神经传递素这些传递素对学习和柔软性方面都有很大帮助，而且我们尚未发现任何带阻止性的元素。当我们说这些孩子注意力不够集中时，其实是说他们在分散注意力方面不擅长。那就意味着他们很难将注意力只集中在重要问题上而遗漏那些为他们提供线索的事情。这是一种注意力，一种知觉，我们从那些生来就会学习的蝴蝶身上见过的知觉。
en:So what happens when we pay attentionis that the prefrontal cortex, the sort of executive part of our brains,sends a signalthat makes a little part of our brain much more flexible,more plastic, better at learning,and shuts down activityin all the rest of our brains.So we have a very focused, purpose-driven kind of attention.If we look at babies and young children,we see something very different.I think babies and young childrenseem to have more of a lantern of consciousnessthan a spotlight of consciousness.So babies and young children are very badat narrowing down to just one thing.But they&#39;re very good at taking in lots of informationfrom lots of different sources at once.And if you actually look in their brains,you see that they&#39;re flooded with these neurotransmittersthat are really good at inducing learning and plasticity,and the inhibitory parts haven&#39;t come on yet.So when we say that babies and young childrenare bad at paying attention,what we really mean is that they&#39;re bad at not paying attention.So they&#39;re bad at getting ridof all the interesting things that could tell them somethingand just looking at the thing that&#39;s important.That&#39;s the kind of attention, the kind of consciousness,that we might expectfrom those butterflies who are designed to learn.
时间：16:44
zh-cn:如果我们大人也想体验一下小孩的那种知觉，我认为我们可以想象一下给自己一个从未遇到过的状况——比如说当我们有了新的恋人，或是来到一个新城市。结果不是我们的知觉收缩，它反而扩大，在巴黎的三天充满了更多的感觉和经历而整个月的走路，谈话，同事开会，还有僵尸般的回家路相对变得模糊。另外，咖啡，你常在楼下喝的咖啡，其实有类似婴儿神经传递素的效应。当小孩到底是什么感觉？它就像在第一次来到巴黎在你喝了三杯双份浓缩咖啡之后恋爱了。（笑声）这种幻觉很棒，但它会在凌晨三点中把你叫醒，哭泣。
en:Well if we want to think about a wayof getting a taste of that kind of baby consciousness as adults,I think the best thing is think about caseswhere we&#39;re put in a new situation that we&#39;ve never been in before —when we fall in love with someone new,or when we&#39;re in a new city for the first time.And what happens then is not that our consciousness contracts,it expands,so that those three days in Parisseem to be more full of consciousness and experiencethan all the months of beinga walking, talking, faculty meeting-attending zombie back home.And by the way, that coffee,that wonderful coffee you&#39;ve been drinking downstairs,actually mimics the effectof those baby neurotransmitters.So what&#39;s it like to be a baby?It&#39;s like being in lovein Paris for the first timeafter you&#39;ve had three double-espressos.(Laughter)That&#39;s a fantastic way to be,but it does tend to leave you waking up crying at three o&#39;clock in the morning.
时间：17:39
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：17:42
zh-cn:当大人也很好。小孩子有多好我也不多说了。总之当大人很好。我们可以绑自己的鞋带还能自己过马路。可以理解为什么我们花这么多时间让小孩以大人的方式思考。但我们需要像这些小蝴蝶学习。才能思想开放，灵活学习，加强想象力，创造力，还有创新，至少在某些时候我们需要让大人开始学习小孩的思考方式。
en:Now it&#39;s good to be a grownup.I don&#39;t want to say too much about how wonderful babies are.It&#39;s good to be a grownup.We can do things like tie our shoelaces and cross the street by ourselves.And it makes sense that we put a lot of effortinto making babies think like adults do.But if what we want is to be like those butterflies,to have open-mindedness, open learning,imagination, creativity, innovation,maybe at least some of the timewe should be getting the adultsto start thinking more like children.
时间：18:11
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
