时间： 0:12
zh-cn:大家好，这是我第一次旅行人生中第一次离开加沙地带能来到这里我非常高兴
en:Hello.This is my first trip,first time in life I&#39;m outsideof the walls of Gaza.I&#39;m so happy to be here.
时间： 0:24
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 0:30
zh-cn:一直以来，我的志向是成为一名飞行员，去开飞机，从而去感受空中飞翔的自由，与天空为伍。但，这从未发生过。简单的说，我生活在加沙，那里没有机场所有的边境都是关闭的我们生活在这世界上最大的监狱里。对我来说，唯一能做的事情就是仰望天空在某些天，会有四、五个小时的电力供应对我们来说非常幸运。在寒冷的天气里，我们在房子前面或者屋顶生火取暖。有时候，我们会用同样的方式煮饭。
en:My ambition always wasto be a pilot, to fly a plane,to feel free to fly the sky,to touch the sky.But that didn&#39;t happen.Simply, I live in Gaza,there is no airport.All borders are closed on every side.We live in one of the biggestprisons in the world.The only thing I can dois just to look up to the sky.On some days, we are luckyif we have electricityfor four or five hours.When it&#39;s cold, we make a fireon the front or on the roof of our homes.Sometimes we make food, too.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:在加沙，我的工作是为来到加沙的记者们准备各种各样的东西告诉他们在加沙正发生着什么。很多个早晨，我不得不去边境地区接一名记者。假如这名记者发生了任何事情，或者这名记者决定去报道一个政府不允许我们揭露的故事（新闻），可能就会发生糟糕的事情。
en:My job in Gaza is to arrange everythingfor journalists who come to my homelandto tell the storiesabout what&#39;s going on in Gaza.Many mornings,I had to go to the border areato collect a journalist.If anything should happento the journalist,or if the journalist decidesto cover a storythe government doesn&#39;t want us to cover,bad things could happen.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:在我的国家为记者电影制作者、新同伴做导航，是我的工作我相信我的成功是因为建立了关系不仅仅是和记者、新同伴们，更是和加沙地带的社区群体。这些社区群体不希望他们的故事被报道，我从来没有把他们作为故事或者数字。他们和我一样，他们是人
en:Navigating through my countryhelping journalists,filmmakers, news crews,is my working life.I believe my success comesfrom building a relationshipnot only with journalistsand the news crews,but also with the communitiesin the Gaza Strip.These communities who don&#39;t wanttheir stories to be told,I never looked to themas stories or numbers.But like me, they are human beings.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:在过去的十年，我已经建立起很多关系你猜怎么样？这给我机会去加入人群去诉述那些别人不能诉说的事。在一些真实的场景，我感受到，作为一个女人，我有更大的能量。在我的群体中，很多男性记者他们想去报道发生在我的国家的一个毒品泛滥事件。建设加沙隧道时，这个问题开始发生。在加沙的围城之中隧道给人们带来所有基本的需求比如，食物、建材等其他我们需要的物品。但现在不是了，因为与埃及的边界被洪水淹没隧道不再起作用毒品被走私进来很多年轻人毒品上瘾在传统的巴勒斯坦社会，禁止男人进入家门因此，没有男性记者能进行采访。但是，我可以。
en:I have built upmany relationships over 10 years.And guess what?This gives me the chanceto get access to people,to stories that others can&#39;t.In some certain situations,I feel, as a woman, I have more power.Many male journalists in my society,they want to cover a storyabout drug addiction in my country.That problem startedwhen the Gaza tunnel was being built.With the siege on Gaza,tunnels brought people all the basic needslike food, building material,other stuff we needed.But not anymore, because the Egyptian sideflooded them up with waterand they are not working anymore.Drugs were being smuggled,and many young people got addicted, too.In the traditionof the Palestinian society,it&#39;s forbidden for mento enter the household.So, no male journalists get the story.But I did.
时间： 3:29
zh-cn:我的丈夫非常棒，他支持我尽管他承受着来自社会的所有批评。他现在和我的两个孩子待在家里，我带着另外一个孩子，正在我身体里成长。
en:I have a wonderful husband,a wonderful husband who supports medespite all the criticismhe gets from the society.He&#39;s at home now with my two kids,and I have another onethat&#39;s growing in here.
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:当我工作时，我每隔两个小时给他打电话同时，他知道如果他没有接到我的电话他应该打电话联系我带我进入这个故事的人是我最相信的人。
en:When I&#39;m working,I call him every two hours,and he knows if he doesn&#39;t hear from me,he should call my contact,the one who gives me access to the story,which is the one who I trust.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:有一次在加沙，英国记者约翰斯顿被绑架期间，一个美国杂志要求我在加沙组织一个和绑匪的会面，我做到了。记者报道了新闻，我被要求在他的酒店外会面他们来了，他们将我们架上一辆带着黑色玻璃的黑色面包车那天他们带着面具。他们开车载着我们，远离中心地带。他们拿走我们的手机我们在区域外与绑匪会面。那天我非常害怕我永远不会忘记的一天。
en:One of the times in Gaza,during the kidnappingof the British journalist Alan Johnston,I was asked by an American magazineto set up a meetingwith the kidnappers in Gaza, and I did.The journalist covering the story and Iwere asked to meet outside of his hotel.They came, they picked us upin a black van with black windows,they were wearing masks on that day.And they drove us away,far away in the middle of a field.They took our cell phonesand we did the interviewwith the kidnapper outside in that field.I was so scared that day,a day I will never forget.
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:然而，我为什么要这么做呢？我这么做，因为我相信如果我不将失去加沙的这个新闻的一大部分。我可以告诉你非常多我的国家的故事，并不是所有的都是不好的。我爱我的国家，尽管我们生活在这个糟糕的地带闭塞，贫穷，失业...但这是生命这里的人们充满梦想和惊人的活力。我们有美妙的音乐和伟大的音乐学校。我们有跑酷舞者，他们可以在他们家的瓦砾上跳舞。同时，加沙是阿拉伯世界唯一一个地方穆斯林和基督徒血脉相连。
en:So, why do I do what I do?I do it because I believe if I didn&#39;t,a huge part of the storyabout Gaza will be missing.There are some more storiesI could tell you about my country.And not all of them are bad.I love my country, despitethe terrible situation we live in —siege, poverty, unemployment —but there is life.There are people who are dreamersand amazing people full of energy.We have wonderful music,and a great music school.We have parkour dancerswho dance in the rubble of their homes.And Gaza is the only placein the Arab worldwhere Muslims and Christianslive in strong brotherhood.
时间： 5:57
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:在战争期间，对我来说最艰难的是早晨离开家，离开我的孩子。我每天给他们拍照，因为我不知道我否还能回到他们身边。在加沙做协调者和记者是非常困难和危险的。但是当我听见炮声、爆炸声时，我立即迎头而上去面对它，因为我想第一个到那儿因为这些事需要被报道。
en:During the time of war,the hardest part for meis leaving the house early in the morning,leaving my children.I take a picture of them everydaybecause I never knowif I will make it back to them.Being a fixer and a journalistis difficult and dangerous in Gaza.But when I hear the sound of the shellingor the sound of the bombing,I just head straight toward it,because I want to be there first,because these stories should be told.
时间： 6:42
zh-cn:我的孩子们还很小时，每当我们听到战争的声音我都会告诉他们，那是烟火。但他们现在长大了，他们懂了。我开始做噩梦因为在战争期间我所见证的尤其是那些失去生命的年轻人的尸体。我仍记得一个小女孩，她的名字叫哈拉。她是她家唯一的幸存者。她的样子我会永远记得，我忘不了她。
en:When my children were smalland we heard the sound of the war,I used to tell themthat they were fireworks.Now they are older, they understand.I do have terrible nightmaresbecause of all that I witnessedduring war times,especially these lifeless bodiesof young children.I still remember a little girl,her name is Hala.She&#39;s the only survivor from her family.Her picture will be with me forever.I will never forget her.
时间： 7:23
zh-cn:我很骄傲，我可以站在这里，在这里和你们在一起我很骄傲，我可以告诉你们这些故事，悲伤的和快乐的，关于我们那个世界小角落，加沙，那儿的故事。我很骄傲，我是在加沙工作的第一个女性协调者。有趣的是，在加沙，他们叫我蓝波先生（电影《第一滴血》主角）
en:I&#39;m proud that I can stand hereand be here today with you.I&#39;m proud that I can tell youstories, sad and happy,stories about my small cornerof the world, Gaza.I&#39;m proud that I amthe first female fixer working in Gaza.And the funny thing isthey call me Mr. Rambo in Gaza.
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:51
zh-cn:我希望有一天，我可以有机会讲述所有其他女性的故事所有我知道的在我国家的其他惊人的女性，我希望有一天，我能帮助我的国家的其他女性，成为和我一样的协调者当然有时候，我会觉得我再也不能做这份工作了，这负担太大了。但我会想起这句话：不要限制你的挑战，而是挑战你的极限，不要让其他人凌驾于你的梦想之上。
en:I hope one day, I will get the chanceto tell the stories of all other women,all other amazing womenI know in my country.I hope that one dayI can help other women in my countryto be fixers like me.And of course sometimes,I feel I can&#39;t do this work anymore,it&#39;s just too much for me.But I remember these words:&quot;Don&#39;t limit your challenge,but challenge your limit.Don&#39;t allow others to standin front of your dreams.&quot;
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:谢谢你们
en:Thank you.
时间： 8:25
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
