时间： 0:11
zh-cn:无的价值：无中生有的可能这是一篇我在十一岁时写的作文当时我拿了个乙等。（笑）今天我要谈的是创作，和无中生有的艺术我不但要试着在大会给我的18分钟时限中完成并且遵守TED的严格戒律：我必须说，这些戒律的确让我有一种濒临死亡的感觉但濒临死亡是有益于创作的（笑）好
en:The Value of Nothing: Out of Nothing Comes Something.That was an essay I wrote when I was 11 years oldand I got a B+. (Laughter)What I&#39;m going to talk about: nothing out of something, and how we create.And I&#39;m gonna try and do that withinthe 18-minute time span that we were told to stay within,and to follow the TED commandments:that is, actually, something that createsa near-death experience,but near-death is good for creativity.(Laughter) OK.
时间： 0:45
zh-cn:我还想顺便提到如果我说谎，或是说的东西不能普世通用大卫艾格说他将会严厉地质问我这个图是为了听众中的科学家画的当我使用“我们”的时候，我不一定是指你而是说我，和我的右脑，我的左脑还有在它们中间那负责审查的东西如果我说错了什么，它将会提醒我我也将会谈论我个人的创作过程那包含了一些不同的事件无在更早之前发生在我开始创作之前就发生了那包括了天份，滋养还有我叫做梦魇的东西
en:So, I also want to explain,because Dave Eggers said he was going to heckle meif I said anything that was a lie, or not true to universal creativity.And I&#39;ve done it this way for half the audience, who is scientific.When I say we, I don&#39;t mean you, necessarily;I mean me, and my right brain, my left brainand the one that&#39;s in between that is the censorand tells me what I&#39;m saying is wrong.And I&#39;m going do that also by looking atwhat I think is part of my creative process,which includes a number of things that happened, actually —the nothing started even earlier than the momentin which I&#39;m creating something new.And that includes nature, and nurture,and what I refer to as nightmares.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:在天份的方面，我们必须要检视我们是否生来就有这天赋，或者在我们的大脑里，是否有些一些不正常的染色体带来了这些像是灵感的效应有些人会用别的方法说这是我们与生俱来的还有一些人，像我的母亲会说我是从前世里找到这些写作材料的有些人会说创作力是一种精神异常的副作用 —类似梵高症候群 — 就是你有一点精神失常，或是忧郁症但我必须告诉这些人 — 最近我才读到梵高其实不一定是精神病患而更可能得了一种颞叶癫痫症造成了他这种突然性的创作力我想那的确会影响你一部分的大脑我也必须提到，事实上数年前我也有过这种颞叶癫痫那时我正在写我的上一本书有些人说那本书很不同
en:Now in the nature area, we look at whether or notwe are innately equipped with something, perhapsin our brains, some abnormal chromosomethat causes this muse-like effect.And some people would say that we&#39;re born with it in some other means.And others, like my mother,would say that I get my material from past lives.Some people would also say that creativitymay be a function of some other neurological quirk —van Gogh syndrome — that you have a little bit of, you know, psychosis, or depression.I do have to say, somebody — I read recentlythat van Gogh wasn&#39;t really necessarily psychotic,that he might have had temporal lobe seizures,and that might have caused his spurt of creativity, and I don&#39;t —I suppose it does something in some part of your brain.And I will mention that I actually developedtemporal lobe seizures a number of years ago,but it was during the time I was writing my last book,and some people say that book is quite different.
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:还有一部分是从身份危机开始的：我是谁，为什么我是这个我为什么我不像别人一样是黑人？有时候，你装备着那些技能但它们可能不是一些能带来创造力的技能我以前还会画画。我曾以为我会成为一个画家这是我画的迷你贵宾狗似乎还不坏，但实在算不上什么创意因为我所能做的不过是把它们一个个画下来而且我很有可能还是从一本书上抄绘下来的但是我在我真正想要的地方又似乎表现的不是太出色你知道，你看着那些成绩，是不很差但也绝不可能让我预测到有天我竟然能用写作来谋生
en:I think that part of it also begins with a sense of identity crisis:you know, who am I, why am I this particular person,why am I not black like everybody else?And sometimes you&#39;re equipped with skills,but they may not be the kind of skills that enable creativity.I used to draw. I thought I would be an artist.And I had a miniature poodle.And it wasn&#39;t bad, but it wasn&#39;t really creative.Because all I could really do was represent in a very one-on-one way.And I have a sense that I probably copied this from a book.And then, I also wasn&#39;t really shining in a certain area that I wanted to be,and you know, you look at those scores, and it wasn&#39;t bad,but it was not certainly predictive that I would one day makemy living out of the artful arrangement of words.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:创意的其中一项原则是拥有童年的心理创伤我想我有的创伤和一般人一样来自父母对子女过分热切的期望那具人体模型是我在九岁的时候得到的一件玩具，以助我在童年时期就能踏上成为医生康庄大道还有一些持续比较久的心理创伤：从五到十五岁成为一个钢琴家理应变成我的第二职业但最终它只变成我感觉失败的来源
en:Also, one of the principles of creativity is to have a little childhood trauma.And I had the usual kind that I think a lot of people had,and that is that, you know, I had expectations placed on me.That figure right there, by the way,figure right there was a toy given to me when I was but nine years old,and it was to help me become a doctor from a very early age.I have some ones that were long lasting: from the age of five to 15,this was supposed to be my side occupation,and it led to a sense of failure.
时间： 4:13
zh-cn:但事实上在我人生中是有一些真实的心理创伤发生在我十四岁的时候就是发现我的兄弟，在1967年，然后我的父亲六个月以后，双双长了脑瘤我母亲相信有些事情出错了她想找出原因，然后解决它我父亲是个牧师，他相信神迹他相信神会解决那些问题但当然，他们都过世了，中间隔了六个月在那之后，我母亲相信那是命运，是诅咒她找遍了宇宙间所有可能的理由为什么这件事会发生除了偶然以外所有的理由。她不相信偶然每件事都有原因她相信其中一件原因是在她的母亲她相信在她幼年就过世的母亲怨恨她所以我总被死亡的阴影笼罩着因为我母亲还相信我会是下一个，或是她会是下一个当你面对死亡的时候你开始认真思考每件事情你开始非常有创造力，从一种争取生存的角度来说
en:But actually, there was something quite real in my lifethat happened when I was about 14.And it was discovered that my brother, in 1967, and then my father,six months later, had brain tumors.And my mother believed that something had gone wrong,and she was gonna find out what it was, and she was gonna fix it.My father was a Baptist minister, and he believed in miracles,and that God&#39;s will would take care of that.But, of course, they ended up dying, six months apart.And after that, my mother believed that it was fate, or curses— she went looking through all the reasons in the universewhy this would have happened.Everything except randomness. She did not believe in randomness.There was a reason for everything.And one of the reasons, she thought, was that her mother,who had died when she was very young, was angry at her.And so, I had this notion of death all around me,because my mother also believed that I would be next, and she would be next.And when you are faced with the prospect of death very soon,you begin to think very much about everything.You become very creative, in a survival sense.
时间： 5:26
zh-cn:这让我想到一个大问题一些我今日仍然在想的问题为什么事情会发生，它们是怎么发生的？和我母亲问的那句：我怎么让这些事情发生的？在撰写故事的时候，这都是一些很重要的问题因为你必须三百页的篇幅中回答这些问题：为什么事情会这样发生，它是怎么发生的事情发生的顺序和影响我，身为一个述说者，对这个故事又有什么影响？我想这也是所有科学家所问的问题我在我的世界中发展出自己的宇宙观像一个宇宙的创造者。
en:And this, then, led to my big questions.And they&#39;re the same ones that I have today.And they are: why do things happen, and how do things happen?And the one my mother asked: how do I make things happen?It&#39;s a wonderful way to look at these questions, when you write a story.Because, after all, in that framework, between page one and 300,you have to answer this question of why things happen, how things happen,in what order they happen. What are the influences?How do I, as the narrator, as the writer, also influence that?And it&#39;s also one that, I think, many of our scientists have been asking.It&#39;s a kind of cosmology, and I have to develop a cosmology of my own universe,as the creator of that universe.
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:这中间有许多的反复尝试着创造，尝试着理出头绪年复一年，往往。当我想到创作力的时候，我也认为这来自一种对日常生活中每件事无法压抑的看法。我在许多事件发生时做出观察在这个大会中，几乎是所有发生的事情。
en:And you see, there&#39;s a lot of back and forthin trying to make that happen, trying to figure it out— years and years, oftentimes.So, when I look at creativity, I also think that it is this sense or this inabilityto repress, my looking at associations in practically anything in life.And I got a lot of them during what&#39;s been going onthroughout this conference,almost everything that&#39;s been going on.
时间： 6:50
zh-cn:让我在这里用量子力学做比喻：虽然我并不理解量子力学，但我将以它做为一种过程来解释为何它是个比喻。在量子力学中，有着暗能量和暗物质。就像我们尝试解释事情为何会发生的时候有许多未知，你不知道那是什么，只知道它不在但当你尝试找出关联性时当你希望能在故事中把事件连接起来时你突然发现了事物的核心。它的意义。这就是我在我的作品中所想要找寻的，对我而言的意义。
en:And so I&#39;m going to use, as the metaphor, this association:quantum mechanics, which I really don&#39;t understand,but I&#39;m still gonna use it as the processfor explaining how it is the metaphor.So, in quantum mechanics, of course, you have dark energy and dark matter.And it&#39;s the same thing in looking at these questions of how things happen.There&#39;s a lot of unknown, and you often don&#39;t know what it is except by its absence.But when you make those associations,you want them to come together in a kind of synergy in the story,and what you&#39;re finding is what matters. The meaning.And that&#39;s what I look for in my work, a personal meaning.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:在量子力学中还有测不准原理，至少我想有。（笑）同样的事也时常发生在写作中。还有一种可怕的观者效应，当你在找寻一些事情的时候，那些同时发生的事情，你尝试用不同角度去看它，你尝试找出它和其他事物的关联性，或是这个故事和什么有关。如果你过分强求，最后你写下的只是“关联”。却什么也没发现。而你应该找到的，你真正希望能找到的，在无意中，却已经不在了。我并不想忽略在宇宙另一边发生的事，像一些科学家所做的一样。所以在这里我也要顺便谈谈弦理论，证明创意人不仅是多维的，还有着十一种层次的焦虑。（笑）而且它们全部一起发生。
en:There is also the uncertainty principle, which is part of quantum mechanics,as I understand it. (Laughter)And this happens constantly in the writing.And there&#39;s the terrible and dreaded observer effect,in which you&#39;re looking for something, andyou know, things are happening simultaneously,and you&#39;re looking at it in a different way,and you&#39;re trying to really look for the about-ness,or what is this story about. And if you try too hard,then you will only write the about.You won&#39;t discover anything.And what you were supposed to find,what you hoped to find in some serendipitous way,is no longer there.Now, I don&#39;t want to ignorethe other side of what happens in our universe,like many of our scientists have.And so, I am going to just throw in string theory here,and just say that creative people are multidimensional,and there are 11 levels, I think, of anxiety.(Laughter) And they all operate at the same time.
时间： 8:40
zh-cn:再来还有模棱两可的问题。像是你们说的宇宙常数。你不明白什么在运作，但有些事情在运作。模棱两可是一种非常不舒服的感觉，对我的人生来说但它仍然存在。道德的不确定性总是存在着。举例来说，最近刚发生了一件事。在我从事编辑工作时，我读到一个女人在描写伊拉克战争时，她使用了一句很有名的中国谚语”救一个溺水者，你便得为他的一生负责。“意味着既然我们进入了伊拉克，我们便应该长驻直到事情解决。你知道，就算要上百年还有另一个例子就是”救溺水的游鱼“来自一个信仰佛教的渔夫佛教相信人不该杀生但渔夫却仍得谋生，养家为了将杀生合理化，他们声称自己是在救溺水的鱼但鱼不幸地在过程中死了。
en:There is also a big question of ambiguity.And I would link that to something called the cosmological constant.And you don&#39;t know what is operating, but something is operating there.And ambiguity, to me, is very uncomfortablein my life, and I have it. Moral ambiguity.It is constantly there. And, just as an example,this is one that recently came to me.It was something I read in an editorial by a womanwho was talking about the war in Iraq. And she said,&quot;Save a man from drowning, you are responsible to him for life.&quot;A very famous Chinese saying, she said.And that means because we went into Iraq, we should stay thereuntil things were solved. You know, maybe even 100 years.So, there was another one that I came across,and it&#39;s &quot;saving fish from drowning.&quot;And it&#39;s what Buddhist fishermen say,because they&#39;re not supposed to kill anything.And they also have to make a living, and people need to be fed.So their way of rationalizing that is they are saving the fish from drowning,and unfortunately, in the process the fish die.
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:暗藏在这两个溺水故事中的比喻是其中一个说法来自我母亲中国人常说的”救一个溺水者，你便得为他的一生负责。“那是一种警告：别管别人的闲事免得被缠上但我想如果真的有人溺水的话，她还是会救他们的但这两种说法，不管是救溺水的鱼，还是溺水的人，这取决与你的意图
en:Now, what&#39;s encapsulated in both these drowning metaphors— actually, one of them is my mother&#39;s interpretation,and it is a famous Chinese saying, because she said it to me:&quot;save a man from drowning, you are responsible to him for life.&quot;And it was a warning — don&#39;t get involved in other people&#39;s business,or you&#39;re going to get stuck.OK. I think if somebody really was drowning, she&#39;d save them.But, both of these sayings — saving a fish from drowning,or saving a man from drowning — to me they had to do with intentions.
时间：10:20
zh-cn:我们在人生中，都得对我们身边发生的事情做出反应怀抱着各自的意图在我们应该做的，和最后真正做了的两者之间有一些模棱两可之处而结果也不一定符合我们原本的意图说不定事情搞砸了。若当如此，我们的责任又在哪？我们该怎么做？我们该留下来负责还是尝试合理化我们的行为，说，我的本意是好的所以我不应当负全责这便是我人生中很难接受的模棱两可甚至让我因此写了本书，就叫做救一只溺水的鱼
en:And all of us in life, when we see a situation, we have a response.And then we have intentions.There&#39;s an ambiguity of what that should be that we should do,and then we do something.And the results of that may not match what our intentions had been.Maybe things go wrong. And so, after that, what are our responsibilities?What are we supposed to do?Do we stay in for life,or do we do something else and justify and say, well, my intentions were good,and therefore I cannot be held responsible for all of it?That is the ambiguity in my lifethat really disturbed me, and led me to write a book called&quot;Saving Fish From Drowning.&quot;
时间：11:05
zh-cn:一旦你意识到这个问题，就发现它无所不在在哪里都能看到它的痕迹同时我也知道，它们一直都在那里。在写作上，我看见这些暗示，这些线索我意识到它们一直都在那，但又隐身不见我需要的是焦点当我有一个问题要问的时候，它就是一个焦点那些在人生中的灾难都会过去这些问题，和在这些事件中所发生的事都是有关联的而且它无处不在你以为它不过是偶发事件，或是碰巧发生的或许是来自宇宙的帮忙也可以解释成，心中有了焦点以后你更能发现它的存在
en:I saw examples of that. Once I identified this question, it was all over the place.I got these hints everywhere.And then, in a way, I knew that they had always been there.And then writing, that&#39;s what happens. I get these hints, these clues,and I realize that they&#39;ve been obvious, and yet they have not been.And what I need, in effect, is a focus.And when I have the question, it is a focus.And all these things that seem to be flotsam and jetsam in life actually go throughthat question, and what happens is those particular things become relevant.And it seems like it&#39;s happening all the time.You think there&#39;s a sort of coincidence going on, a serendipity,in which you&#39;re getting all this help from the universe.And it may also be explained that now you have a focus.And you are noticing it more often.
时间：11:58
zh-cn:当你开始应用它你开始检视那些令你紧张的事情当你的兄弟遇上了麻烦，你该帮助他吗？为什么要，又为什么不要？它或许比你想象的更为严肃像缅甸的人权问题我本来想着我是否不应该去，因为有人告诉我我在那里出现意味着我支持当地的军权统治但一阵子以后，我自问“为什么我们要在意他人对我们的想法或认知？”这和我在成长过程中的感觉很像我身为牧师的父亲给我们的所有规则和道德指标最后我决定为了我自己去缅甸而我仍然不知道，到了那里写一本书，结果又会如何但我只能等到时机出现的时候，再来面对这些问题
en:But you apply this.You begin to look at things having to do with your tensions.Your brother, who&#39;s fallen in trouble, do you take care of him?Why or why not?It may be something that is perhaps more serious— as I said, human rights in Burma.I was thinking that I shouldn&#39;t go because somebody said, if I did, it would showthat I approved of the military regime there.And then, after a while, I had to ask myself,&quot;Why do we take on knowledge, why do we take on assumptionsthat other people have given us?&quot;And it was the same thing that I felt when I was growing up,and was hearing these rules of moral conduct from my father,who was a Baptist minister.So I decided that I would go to Burma for my own intentions,and still didn&#39;t know that if I went there,what the result of that would be, if I wrote a book —and I just would have to face that later, when the time came.
时间：12:56
zh-cn:我们总是在意这世界上我们所感知的事物我们对自己说：我能做什么？不是每个人都可以去非洲，或是在医院工作我又该如何处理我里面的这个道德感？我想今日的一个重要议题是种族灭绝我们再次回到同样的问题当我遇见这些在道德上模棱两可，让我感觉不舒服的事件我的心态又是如何？我认知到这让我再次回到孩提时所遇见的身份认知议题为什么我在这里，人生的意义时什么我在宇宙间的位置是什么？
en:We are all concerned with things that we see in the world that we are aware of.We come to this point and say, what do I as an individual do?Not all of us can go to Africa, or work at hospitals,so what do we do, if we have this moral response, this feeling?Also, I think one of the biggest things we are all looking at,and we talked about today, is genocide.This leads to this question.When I look at all these things that are morally ambiguous and uncomfortable,and I consider what my intentions should be,I realize it goes back to this identity question that I had when I was a child— and why am I here, and what is the meaning of my life,and what is my place in the universe?
时间：13:43
zh-cn:这看起来似乎很明显，但一点也不我们都不喜欢道德上的不确定性但这种不确定感确是绝对必要的在我写作的时候，这便是我开始的地方有时看上去似乎我受到宇宙的帮助我母亲说从第一本开始，灵感就来自我祖母的鬼魂因为我似乎知道许多我不应该知道的事我没有描写我的祖母是因为吃了过量的鸦片而意外过世的而在故事里描写那女人自杀了那却是我本来不知道的事实我母亲认为这些资讯一定来自我祖母的鬼魂。
en:It seems so obvious, and yet it is not.We all hate moral ambiguity in some sense,and yet it is also absolutely necessary.In writing a story, it is the place where I begin.Sometimes I get help from the universe, it seems.My mother would say it was the ghost of my grandmother from the very first book,because it seemed I knew things I was not supposed to know.Instead of writing that the grandmother died accidentally,from an overdose of opium, while having too much of a good time,I actually put down in the story that the woman killed herself,and that actually was the way it happened.And my mother decided that that information must have come from my grandmother.
时间：14:27
zh-cn:除此以外，还有一些离奇的事件在写作时为我带来了不同的写作资料当时我正在写一个古代的故事需要那个年代的历史和地理资料来补足故事中的细节我从书架上拿下这本书我翻开的第一页便是我故事里的时代和地点和我在描写太平天国时所需要的人物在一个接近桂林的地方和一个认为他是神的儿子的人物。
en:There are also things, quite uncanny,which bring me information that will help me in the writing of the book.In this case, I was writing a storythat included some kind of detail, period of history, a certain location.And I needed to find something historically that would match that.And I took down this book, and I —first page that I flipped it to was exactly the setting, and the time period,and the kind of character I needed — was the Taiping rebellion,happening in the area near Guilin, outside of that,and a character who thought he was the son of God.
时间：15:01
zh-cn:你不禁想，这一切都是偶然的吗？但偶然是什么？机会是什么？运气又是什么？那些从天而降的灵感又是什么？这也成为故事的一部分这些就是我日复一日想着的事在好事发生的时候尤其，在坏事发生的时候但我是相信这种突发灵感的我也想知道它们形成的元素是什么我才能感谢，和找到它们因为，我想，我越能察觉它们，它们就发生的越频繁
en:You wonder, are these things random chance?Well, what is random? What is chance? What is luck?What are things that you get from the universe that you can&#39;t really explain?And that goes into the story, too.These are the things I constantly think about from day to day.Especially when good things happen,and, in particular, when bad things happen.But I do think there&#39;s a kind of serendipity,and I do want to know what those elements are,so I can thank them, and also try to find them in my life.Because, again, I think that when I am aware of them, more of them happen.
时间：15:37
zh-cn:还有一次是一个地方我只是和朋友漫无目的地开着车却到了这个旅游景点以外之地一个淳朴的，古朴的村庄我们越过了三个山谷在第三个山谷，我有些神秘的，不舒服的预感我知道这将成为我故事的场景。故事里的其中一幕便发生在第三个山谷其中一幕我写到，一个男人，正摆着石堆我不知道为什么我这样写，但那景象很鲜明我陷入了困境，一个朋友问我要不要和她去遛狗我说好。四十五分钟后我在海滩上遇见了一个男人一个中国男人他正堆着这些东西。没有胶水，没有任何工具我问他，这怎么可能？他说，世间每件事 都有一个平衡点那便是我故事里所要讲的重点在我的写作过程中 这样的事时常发生我无法解释是否因为我有一种特殊的过滤法因为这些强烈的巧合正是我想写的事？或是这真是一些我们所不能解释的突发事件 从天而来？
en:Another chance encounter is when I went to a place— I just was with some friends, and we drove randomly to a different place,and we ended up in this non-tourist location,a beautiful village, pristine.And we walked three valleys beyond,and the third valley, there was something quite mysterious and ominous,a discomfort I felt. And then I knew that had to be [the] setting of my book.And in writing one of the scenes, it happened in that third valley.For some reason I wrote about cairns — stacks of rocks — that a man was building.And I didn&#39;t know exactly why I had it, but it was so vivid.I got stuck, and a friend, when she asked if I would go for a walk with her dogs,that I said, sure. And about 45 minutes later,walking along the beach, I came across this.And it was a man, a Chinese man,and he was stacking these things, not with glue, not with anything.And I asked him, &quot;How is it possible to do this?&quot;And he said, &quot;Well, I guess with everything in life, there&#39;s a place of balance.&quot;And this was exactly the meaning of my story at that point.I had so many examples — I have so many instances like this, when I&#39;m writing a story,and I cannot explain it.Is it because I had the filter that I have such a strong coincidencein writing about these things?Or is it a kind of serendipity that we cannot explain, like the cosmological constant?
时间：17:05
zh-cn:我也时常想到意外如我所说 我母亲从不相信偶然那意外又是什么？对于那些法律以外的事件，我们又该如何处理面对它们的责任归属？我有一个切身的经验我曾经到中国最贫穷的贵州省里的侗族我看见这个美丽的地方 我知道我想再回来当国家地理杂志问我想不想写一些有关中国的文章我知道我的机会来了我说好，我想写这个唱歌的少数民族它们同意了。就在我两次拜访中间一个悲惨的意外发生了。一个老人在睡眠中把被子掉在了暖炉上六十户人家全毁，四十户遭到损坏这个家庭得担负责任老人的儿子被放逐到三公里外的牛棚西方人会说：但那是个不过是个意外，这不公平父债不该子还
en:A big thing that I also think about is accidents.And as I said, my mother did not believe in randomness.What is the nature of accidents?And how are we going to assign what the responsibility and the causes are,outside of a court of law?I was able to see that in a firsthand way,when I went to beautiful Dong village, in Guizhou, the poorest province of China.And I saw this beautiful place. I knew I wanted to come back.And I had a chance to do that, when National Geographic asked meif I wanted to write anything about China.And I said yes, about this village of singing people, singing minority.And they agreed, and between the time I saw this place and the next time I went,there was a terrible accident. A man, an old man, fell asleep,and his quilt dropped in a pan of fire that kept him warm.60 homes were destroyed, and 40 were damaged.Responsibility was assigned to the family.The man&#39;s sons were banished to live three kilometers away, in a cowshed.And, of course, as Westerners, we say, &quot;Well, it was an accident. That&#39;s not fair.It&#39;s the son, not the father.&quot;
时间：18:11
zh-cn:但当我下笔写这个故事的时候，我得放弃那些原来的想法这得花上一些时间，但是我必须克服自己，纯粹得去那里亲身经历。所以我在不同的季节里去了三次在这个贫穷的村庄里 我开始对历史之前发生的事件 和人生的本质 有了不同的感受什么是让你感到快乐的，你的仪式, 你的传统，我们和其他家庭产生关系的方式。我开始明白这样的责任归属中，有它自己的正义。我也开始了解他们使用的仪式。一个二十九年没用过的仪式。让一个风水师送一些人 乘着鬼马进阴间。你，身为一个西方人，如我，身为一个西方人，会说：那不过是迷信。但在那里待了一段时间以后，亲眼见识到这些神奇的事，你开始想，究竟是谁的信仰，运作在这个世界上，决定事情该如何发生。
en:When I go on a story, I have to let go of those kinds of beliefs.It takes a while, but I have to let go of them and just go there, and be there.And so I was there on three occasions, different seasons.And I began to sense something different about the history,and what had happened before, and the nature of life in a very poor village,and what you find as your joys, and your rituals, your traditions, your linkswith other families. And I saw how this had a kind of justice, in its responsibility.I was able to find out also about the ceremony that they were using,a ceremony they hadn&#39;t used in about 29 years. And it was to send some men— a Feng Shui master sent men down to the underworld on ghost horses.Now you, as Westerners, and I, as Westerners,would say well, that&#39;s superstition. But after being there for a while,and seeing the amazing things that happened,you begin to wonder whose beliefs are those that are in operation in the world,determining how things happen.
时间：19:19
zh-cn:所以我决定留下来和他们一起 ，我写的越多，我便越相信这些信仰，这对我来说是重要的 －去真正接受这些信仰，因为这样，故事才能真实，那便是我找到的答案来解决我人生问题的地方。随着时间过去，我也写了很多作品，但这不是在一瞬间发生的，在这里，我想对你们说的是这些书来了又走。当它来到的时候，它已不再属于我，而在每个读者手中，他们有不同的解读。但我仍然回到同样的问题，我如何无中生有？我如何创造自己的生命？
en:So I remained with them, and the more I wrote that story,the more I got into those beliefs, and I think that&#39;s important for me— to take on the beliefs, because that is where the story is real,and that is where I&#39;m gonna find the answersto how I feel about certain questions that I have in life.Years go by, of course, and the writing, it doesn&#39;t happen instantly,as I&#39;m trying to convey it to you here at TED.The book comes and it goes. When it arrives, it is no longer my book.It is in the hands of readers, and they interpret it differently.But I go back to this question of, how do I create something out of nothing?And how do I create my own life?
时间：20:01
zh-cn:我对它提出问题，并告诉我自己，它没有一个确定的答案。我相信那些具体的事，故事中的细节，和往事，往事中的细节，及当时故事中所发生的事。我也相信，在我们考量着这些，有关运气 、命运 、巧合和意外，天意，和这些神秘力量的互动时，我将会对我们的创造力有些概念。我思考自己的角色 在宇宙中的原因是否有人要我成为现在这个样子，或是那完全出于我自己？我可以借着想象来找到答案，或成为自己想象的模样在那真实世界，虚构世界，这便是我找到部分真理的办法，不是绝对的，或是完全的真理，它们仍有许多可能性。包括那些我从未想到的
en:And I think it is by questioning,and saying to myself that there are no absolute truths.I believe in specifics, the specifics of story,and the past, the specifics of that past,and what is happening in the story at that point.I also believe that in thinking about things —my thinking about luck, and fate, and coincidences and accidents,God&#39;s will, and the synchrony of mysterious forces —I will come to some notion of what that is, how we create.I have to think of my role. Where I am in the universe,and did somebody intend for me to be that way, or is it just something I came up with?And I also can find that by imagining fully, and becoming what is imagined —and yet is in that real world, the fictional world.And that is how I find particles of truth, not the absolute truth, or the whole truth.And they have to be in all possibilities,including those I never considered before.
时间：21:09
zh-cn:从没有完整的答案就算有，也是为了提醒我自己。一切都是变化无常的那是件好事 因为我总能发现新东西如果有一个片段的答案 一个更完整的答案便是简单的想象想象便是将自己放进故事里直到我和我的故事间完全透明 毫无距离
en:So, there are never complete answers.Or rather, if there is an answer, it is to remindmyself that there is uncertainty in everything,and that is good, because then I will discover something new.And if there is a partial answer, a more complete answer from me,it is to simply imagine.And to imagine is to put myself in that story,until there was only — there is a transparency between me and the story that I am creating.
时间：21:43
zh-cn:那便是我发现 若我能感觉到故事里的情节那么 我便接近了 懂得了什么是同感去完整的感受这同感因为对每件事来说当我们问事情是怎么发生的 那便和感受有关我必须成为故事的一部分才能理解当我们来到演讲的最后我将揭露袋子里的是什么，那是灵感是改变我们人生的事物那些美好的 从不离弃的它在这里。非常感谢！（鼓掌）
en:And that&#39;s how I&#39;ve discovered that if I feel what is in the story— in one story — then I come the closest, I think,to knowing what compassion is, to feeling that compassion.Because for everything,in that question of how things happen, it has to do with the feeling.I have to become the story in order to understand a lot of that.We&#39;ve come to the end of the talk,and I will reveal what is in the bag, and it is the muse,and it is the things that transform in our lives,that are wonderful and stay with us.There she is.Thank you very much!(Applause)
