时间： 0:11
zh-cn:2016年6月29日，
en:June 29, 2016.
时间： 0:18
zh-cn:我亲爱的公民朋友们：
en:My dear fellow citizen:
时间： 0:21
zh-cn:今天我在这向你们致辞，献给那些迷失在这个时代中的人们。在我们平凡生活中的这个时刻，在这个充满了分裂，恶意，和恐惧的世界，
en:I write to you today,to you who have lost in this era.At this moment in our common life,when the world is full of breakingand spiteand fear,
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:我为你写了这封信，即使我们都知道，这里的“你”代表了很多的人，这里的“我”也代表了很多人。
en:I address this lettersimply to you,even though we both knowthere are many of you behind this &quot;you,&quot;and many of me behind this &quot;I.&quot;
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:我给你们写这封信的原因，是我们现处的这个不安全的世界吓到了我，我猜它也吓到了你们。我怀疑有一些我们所恐惧的其实是相同的。但是我们很多的恐惧似乎源于彼此之间。你们害怕我想要生活的世界，我也害怕你们所想的那种。
en:I write to you because at present,this quaking world we share scares me.I gather it scares you, too.Some of what we fear, I suspect,we fear in common.But much of what we fearseems to be each other.You fear the world I want to live in,and I fear your visions in turn.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:你们了解那种感觉吗？那种在暴风雨来临前的感觉？你们现在有这种感觉吗，我的公民朋友们？那种心神不安又焦虑的感觉，会让你们当中的一些人想起上世纪30年代？
en:Do you know that feeling you getwhen you know it&#39;s going to stormbefore it storms?Do you also feel that now,fellow citizen?That malaise and worrythat some who knowfeel reminds them of the 1930s?
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:也许你没有这种感觉，因为我们对彼此的恐惧不是同步的。在这一轮中，我感觉到了你们对我的恐惧，对这个我所坚持的世界的恐惧，这些恐惧积累了超过一个时代。你们的恐惧需要时间来激发我的恐惧，因为至少在一开始，我从未想过我需要惧怕你。
en:Perhaps you don&#39;t,because our fears of each otherare not in sync.In this round, I sensethat your fears of me,of the world that I have insistedis right for us both,has gathered over a generation.It took time for your fearsto trigger my fears,not least because at first,I never thought I needed to fear you.
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:我听见了你的声音，但是我没有仔细聆听。这些年里每当你们说起这个令人震惊的新世界，对于你们来说并不震惊，对于你们中很多人来说，对于这个工业化的世界；这个我享受的开放的、流动的世界，这个人力物力和科技都自由流通，在世界范围内去心之所向之地的时代，对于你来说，并非是一种解放。
en:I heard youbut did not listen,all these years when you saidthat this amazing new worldwasn&#39;t amazing for you,for many of you,across the industrialized world;that the open, liquid world I relished,of people and goodsand technologies flowing freely,going where they pleased, globally,was not, for you, an emancipation.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:当我经过你们的城镇，观赏时却什么也没看见。我在德克萨斯州斯蒂芬威尔市注意到那里的市中心广场是被连排的律师事务所霸占的，因为那些不断进出于监狱的人们。我有注意到在南达科他州瓦格纳市那些荒芜的商店，和那些退伍军人的聚集场所，坐落于城市梦想之上，却忍受嘲讽。我有注意到在宾夕法尼亚州兰开斯特市的沃尔玛超市中，太多二三十岁的年轻人，看起来就像与死亡只差十几二十年，有着色素沉积的皮肤，稀疏散乱的头发，泛黄磨损的牙齿，和迷离的眼神。
en:I have walked through your townsand, while looking, failed to see.I did notice in Stephenville, Texas,that the town square was dominatedby one lawyer&#39;s office after another,because of all the peoplerotating in and out of the prison.I did notice the barren shopsin Wagner, South Dakota,and the VFW gathering hallthat stood in mockeryof a community&#39;s dream to endure.I did noticeat the Lancaster, Pennsylvania Wal-Mart,that far too many peoplein their 20s and 30slooked a decade or two from death,with patchy, flared-up skinand thinning, stringy hairand browning, ground-down teethand a lostness in their eyes.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:我注意到了那些在巴黎街头在弗罗里达，在巴塞罗那的青年，身怀文凭却无处可去，年近30仍靠实习为生，他们人生展翅高飞的机会被抹杀了因为经济创造财富而不是工作我注意到了那些关于伦敦市区空洞化的新闻，在那儿世界级富豪把现钱变为空洞公寓，为城市定居居民定价，年轻夫妇从这儿离开，离开他们本来的家。
en:I did notice that the young peopleI encountered in Paris,in Florence, in Barcelona,had degrees but no place to take them,living on internships well into their 30s,their lives prevented from launching,because of an economythat creates wealth —just not jobs.I did notice the news about those partsof London becoming ghost quarters,where the global super-richturn fishy money into empty apartmentsand price lifelong residents of a city,young couples starting out,out of their own home.
时间： 5:07
zh-cn:我听说，是眼泪编织了你们的生活。你们曾经能指着工作过日子，而现在不行了。你们曾经能富养你们的孩子，至少保证他们在人生中比你们自己爬得更高一些，但现在不行了。你们曾经能在工作中找到尊严，但现在不行了。在过去，像你们这样的人们有个家是十分正常的事情，但现在却不是这样。
en:And I heard that the fabric of your lifewas tearing.You used to be able to count on work,and now you couldn&#39;t.You used to be ableto nourish your children,and guarantee that they would climba little bit further in life than you had,and now you couldn&#39;t.You used to be made to feel dignityin your work, and now you didn&#39;t.It used to be normalfor people like you to own a home,and now it wasn&#39;t.
时间： 5:46
zh-cn:我不能否认我很早就知道这些事，但是我却被分了神，去为人类在火星上的未来生活而奋斗就算你们依然在地球上艰苦的过着日子我被分了神，去创造永生，就在你们中很多人的寿命已开始短于你们父母那代人了。
en:I cannot sayI didn&#39;t know these things,but I was distractedcreating a future in whichwe could live on Mars,even as you struggled down here on Earth.I was distractedinnovating immortality,even as many of you began to liveshorter lives than your parents had.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:这些事都经过了我的耳朵，可惜我没有去仔细倾听。我看了，但是没看见。我读了，可是没理解。
en:I heard all of these things,but I didn&#39;t listen.I lookedbut didn&#39;t see.I read, didn&#39;t understand.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:只有当你们去投票，去喊叫，只有当事情本身开始威胁到我自身的时候，我才会去注意到。
en:I paid attentiononly when you began to vote and shout,and when your voting and shouting,when the substance of it,began to threaten me.
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:只有当你们前往各处大陆工会，当你们成为选举煽动者的时候，我才会真正听见。
en:I listened only when you movedtoward shattering continental unionsand electing vulgar demagogues.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:只有到那时候，你们的痛苦才能被我注意。
en:Only then did your pain become of interestto me.
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:我知道感到难受经常是解决问题序幕。我在想，若现在我和你们身处同一战线，而你仅仅是感觉到了，你们会因此就不想去处理它吗？
en:I know that feeling hurtis often prologue to dealing hurt.I wonder nowif you would be less eager to deal itif I had stood with youwhen you merely felt it.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:我质问自己，为什么没有和你站在一起。
en:I ask myselfwhy I didn&#39;t stand with you then.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:一个原因是我着迷于改变，为了创新成为新新事物理念，成为全球化和开放性，成为多样性的拥护者。
en:One reason is that I became entrancedby the gurus of change,became a worshiper of the religionof the new for novelty&#39;s sake,and of globalization and open bordersand kaleidoscopic diversity.
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:一旦“改变”成为了我的信仰，我就开始变得盲目。我可能忽视改变带来的后果，我可能忽视那些根源，传统，仪式，稳定性－归属感的重要性。
en:Once change became my totalizing faith,I could be blind.I could fail to see change&#39;s consequences.I could overlook the importanceof roots, traditions,rituals, stability —and belonging.
时间： 8:06
zh-cn:当我越发变得崇拜改变和开放，我就越发把你们推往另一个极端，那些依恋派，保守派，与世隔绝的，或是归属思想。
en:And the more fundamentalist I becamein my worship of change and openness,the more I drove youtowards the other polarity,to cling,to freeze,to close,to belong.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:我现在比以往看见更多，没有优越的皮肤和器官，并不是百害而无一利。对于拥有优势特质的那些皮肤器官，存在一个更加细微，潜在的危险。当认为历史在离你而去，对像你们这样的人有害的历史，也许对另一些人，未来则更加险恶；与你们记忆中的相比，世界一天天变得更加生疏。
en:I now see as I didn&#39;t beforethat not havingthe right skin or right organis not the only varietal of disadvantage.There is a subtler, quieter disadvantagein having those privileged traitsand yet feeling history to bemoving away from you;that while the past was hospitableto people like you,the future will be more hospitableto others;that the world is growing less familiar,less yours day by day.
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:我当然不会承认旧权不该被缩减。它们缩减的速度还远远不够。你们应该明白在新的历史时代里，与生俱来的优势皮肤和器官不会带来什么奖励。如果当你的气愤转化为痛恨，请明白在我们共享的家园里没有容纳那些痛恨的空间。但我会承认，我的朋友们，我忽视了应对地位丧失的压力。我忘却了那些社会必须的也会成为个人折磨。
en:I will not concede for a momentthat old privileges should not dwindle.They cannot dwindle fast enough.It is for you to learn to livein a new century in whichthere are no bonuses for showing upwith the right skin and right organs.If and when your anger turns to hate,please know that there is no spacefor that in our shared home.But I will admit, fellow citizen,that I have discounted the burdenof coping with the loss of status.I have forgottenthat what is socially necessarycan also be personally gruelling.
时间： 9:51
zh-cn:对于你我共享的经济体，相似地事发生了。正如我不能，也不愿背视那平等与多样性的时钟，但必须明白它们能够激励的那种失去感，因此，我拒绝，也不能够去希望时光倒流回相互联系，依赖的世界之前回到发明不断之前。但我也必须意识到你们所经历的这些。
en:A similar thing happenedwith the economy that you and I share.Just as I cannot and don&#39;t wishto turn back to the clockon equality and diversity,and yet must understandthe sense of loss they can inspire,so, too, I refuseand could not if I wishedturn back the clock on an ever moreclosely knit, interdependent world,and on inventionsthat won&#39;t stop being invented.And yet I must understandyour experience of these things.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:你们多年来都在诉说你们经历过的这些种种并不向我理论预测中的那么美好。
en:You have for years been telling methat your experience of these thingsis not as good as my theories forecast.
时间：10:39
zh-cn:但在你们能够诉说完关于生活的艰辛，异常的时间，蒸发的工资，消失的机会，关于将孩子寄托给全天托管班为了完成凌晨3点的工作换班的痛苦之前，我就用我的信条－在你们完成诉说之前－驳回你们，告诉你们其实你们经历的是灵活和自由。
en:Yet before you could finisha complaining sentenceabout the difficulty of livingwith erratic hours, volatile pay,vanishing opportunities,about the pain of droppingyour children off at 24-hour day careto make your 3am shift,I shot back at you — before youcould finish your sentence —my dogma,about how what you are actuallyexperiencing was flexibilityand freedom.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:语言是我们真正共有的唯几样事物之一，而我有时候却用这共同的遗产，去混淆，去转移，去为自己辩护；当我抛出例如“共同经济”“混乱”“共享经济”这样短语的时候，去重新辩解对自身有力的，其实是对大家都有利的。
en:Language is one of the only thingsthat we truly share,and I sometimes usedthis joint inheritanceto obfuscateand deflectand justify myself;to re-brand what was good for meas something appearing good for us both,when I threw around termslike &quot;the sharing economy,&quot;and &quot;disruption&quot;and &quot;global resourcing.&quot;
时间：11:44
zh-cn:我意识到我有时真正在从事的，是廉价买下你们的痛苦，稍微改进一下，然后尝试重新卖给你们凭借自由的旗号。
en:I see now that what I was really doing,at times,was buying your pain on the cheap,sprucing it upand trying to sell it back to youas freedom.
时间：12:00
zh-cn:我希望去相信，也希望你们去相信，那对我适用的体系，让我的人生天衣无缝的体系，也是最适合你们的体系。
en:I have wanted to believeand wanted you to believethat the system that has been good to me,that has made my life ever more seamless,is also the best system for you.
时间：12:16
zh-cn:我自带优越感地向你们灌输观点：你们是在对经济利益投反对票－对你们自身的利益投反对票，仿佛我知道你们利益的样子。这只是我自身教条的经济论。我有这样一个问题，就是总把经济利益看作所有人的唯一利益。忽视了那些归属感，骄傲情绪，和对于那些忽视你的人们发出信息的欲望。
en:I have condescended to youwith the idea that you are votingagainst your economic interests —voting against your interests,as if I know your interests.That is just my dogmaticeconomism talking.I have a weaknessfor treating people&#39;s economic interestsas their only interest,ignoring things like belonging and prideand the desire to send a messageto those who ignore you.
时间：12:51
zh-cn:我们就是这样，身处一个可怕但并非莫名奇妙的躁动的，受挫的，排外的，痛恨的，惧怕的时刻。
en:So here we are,in a scary but not inexplicable momentof demagoguery, fracture,xenophobia, resentment and fear.
时间：13:08
zh-cn:如果我们继续这条道路：我不听，你感觉没被倾听，你为了让我听而喊叫。我将为你我感到担心。
en:And I worry for us bothif we continue down this road,me not listening,you feeling unheard,you shouting to get me to listen.
时间：13:21
zh-cn:我担心我们中的每一个人都会被不给别人留出路的未来景象所诱惑。
en:I worry when each of us is seducedby visions of the futurethat have no place for the other.
时间：13:28
zh-cn:如果这继续下去，继续这样下去，可能会演变为血案。在每天的报纸当中，已经有一些血案前兆了。可能会出现混乱，暴动，搜捕，驱逐营，分裂。不，我不是在虚张声势。有可能会有战争，出现在口口声声认同已不会有战争的地方。
en:If this goes on,if this goes on,there may be blood.There are already hints of this bloodin newspapers every day.There may be roundups, raids,deportations, camps, secessions.And no, I do not think that I exaggerate.There may be even talk of warin places that were certainthey were done with it.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:一直以来都有补救的希望。但这并非是一个廉价的，浅显易得的救赎不仅仅是嘴上说说我们团结一致。这会需要更多。
en:There is always the hope of redemption.But it will not be a cheap,shallow redemptionthat comes through blatherabout us all being in it together.This will take more.
时间：14:17
zh-cn:我们需要承认我们选择在这儿。
en:It will take accepting that we bothmade choices to be here.
时间：14:24
zh-cn:是我们创造了“其他人”的概念。作为家长，邻居，公民，我们见证，有时也忽视他人的存在。
en:We create our &quot;others.&quot;As parents, as neighbors, as citizens,we witness and sometimes ignore each otherinto being.
时间：14:40
zh-cn:我们并非生来就复仇心切。我也饰演一些角色，无论你现在是多么渴望复仇，那些复仇的渴望感诱使我设计前所未有精密的路线，去逃离我们共同生活，逃离学校和邻里，逃离机场和游乐场，逃离那些我们曾经共有的地方。
en:You were not born vengeful.I have some rolein whatever thirstyou now feel for revenge,and that thirst now tempts meto plot ever more elaborate escapesfrom our common life,from the schools and neighborhoodsand airports and amusement parksthat we used to share.
时间：15:04
zh-cn:之后，我们面对的不是那些远大的非个人的问题，我们面对的是你我的关系问题。我们选择了相互关联的方式，让我们走到了今天这地步。我们也可以选择相互关联的方式，让我们脱离这里。
en:We face, then,a problem not of these large,impersonal forces.We face a problemof your and my relations.We chose ways of relating to each otherthat got us here.We can choose ways of relatingthat get us out.
时间：15:30
zh-cn:但我们必须放弃一些，我亲爱的公民伙伴们，首先是我们自身珍视的现实视角。
en:But there are thingswe might have to let go of,fellow citizen,starting with our own cherishedversions of reality.
时间：15:44
zh-cn:想像你们放弃那些对没有这样或那样人的社会的幻想。想像我放弃在你们背后拯救世界的习惯，想像去放弃对在连安保都无法通过地方你未来的工作，食物，学校的幻想。
en:Imagine if you let go of fantasiesof a society purgedof these or those people.Imagine if I let go of my habitof saving the world behind your back,of deliberating on the futureof your work,your food,your schools,in places where you couldn&#39;tget past security.
时间：16:11
zh-cn:我们只有先承认我们忽视了彼此，才可能做到这一点。如果在这不详的时刻，有重新振作精神的希望，那就是这个。我们已经太久追寻各种闪亮的梦想，以最基本的对你我之间梦想的注意力为代价，照顾彼此的梦想，释放彼此疑虑的梦想，共同跨越历史的梦想。我们应该敢于承认对于彼此的梦想，承认它比其他各色事情更重要。
en:We can do this only if we first acceptthat we have neglected each other.If there is hope to summonin this ominous hour,it is this.We have, for too long,chased various shimmering dreamsat the cost of attentionto the foundational dream of each other,the dream of tending to each other,of unleashing each other&#39;s wonders,of moving through history together.We could dare to committo the dream of each otheras the thing that mattersbefore every neon thing.
时间：17:03
zh-cn:让我们敢于这么做。
en:Let us dare.
时间：17:05
zh-cn:敬上，
en:Sincerely yours,
时间：17:07
zh-cn:一个公民伙伴。
en:a fellow citizen.
时间：17:08
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
