时间： 0:12
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:这些蜜蜂，生活在我位于加州伯克利市的家的后院里。直到去年之前，我从没养过蜜蜂，但是《国家地理》邀请我拍摄一组关于它们的照片，然后我决定，为了拍出一些令人叹服的照片，我应该开始自己养蜂。正如你们可能知道的，蜜蜂为我们三分之一的粮食作物授粉，而最近它们却经历了一个非常困难的时期。因此作为一个摄影师，我想对这个问题的真相一探究竟。所以我将要向你们展示我去年的发现。
en:These bees are in my backyardin Berkeley, California.Until last year,I&#39;d never kept bees before,but National Geographic asked meto photograph a story about them,and I decided, to be ableto take compelling images,I should start keeping bees myself.And as you may know,bees pollinate one thirdof our food crops,and lately they&#39;ve been havinga really hard time.So as a photographer, I wanted to explorewhat this problem really looks like.So I&#39;m going to show youwhat I found over the last year.
时间： 0:57
zh-cn:这个毛葺葺的小动物是一只从蜂巢中露出半个身子的幼蜂，而蜜蜂们现在正面临几个问题，包括农药、疾病以及栖息地的丧失，但最大的威胁是一种来自亚洲的寄生螨，瓦螨（Varroa destructor）。这种针头大小的螨虫会爬向幼蜂然后吸它们的血。这实际上会毁掉一个蜂巢，因为它会减弱蜜蜂的免疫系统，使它们更容易受到压力和疾病的伤害。
en:This furry little creatureis a fresh young bee halfway emergedfrom its brood cell,and bees right now are dealingwith several different problems,including pesticides, diseases,and habitat loss,but the single greatest threatis a parasitic mite from Asia,Varroa destructor.And this pinhead-sized mitecrawls onto young beesand sucks their blood.This eventually destroys a hivebecause it weakensthe immune system of the bees,and it makes them more vulnerableto stress and disease.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:当蜜蜂在蜂巢中发育的时候是它们最敏感的时期，而我想要了解这个过程是怎样的，所以我跟加州大学戴维斯校区的一个蜜蜂实验室合作并且琢磨出如何在摄像机前养蜜蜂。我将在接下来的60秒里，浓缩地向你们展示一只蜜蜂生命最初的21天。
en:Now, bees are the most sensitivewhen they&#39;re developinginside their brood cells,and I wanted to knowwhat that process really looks like,so I teamed upwith a bee lab at U.C. Davisand figured out how to raise beesin front of a camera.I&#39;m going to show youthe first 21 days of a bee&#39;s lifecondensed into 60 seconds.
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:这是一个正在孵化为幼虫的蜂卵，这些初孵幼虫在它们的蜂巢中游动，以这种保育蜂分泌的白色粘性物为食。然后，它们的头和腿在它们变成蛹的过程中慢慢地分化。这是跟上面相同的蛹化过程，你可以看到螨虫在这些蜂巢中爬行。然后它们身体组织开始重组，而色素也慢慢地在它们的眼睛中发展。这个过程的最后一步是它们的皮肤皱缩并且长出葺毛。（音乐）
en:This is a bee eggas it hatches into a larva,and those newly hatched larvaeswim around their cellsfeeding on this white goothat nurse bees secrete for them.Then, their head and their legsslowly differentiateas they transform into pupae.Here&#39;s that same pupation process,and you can actually see the mitesrunning around in the cells.Then the tissue in their body reorganizesand the pigment slowlydevelops in their eyes.The last step of the processis their skin shrivels upand they sprout hair.(Music)
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:因此——（掌声）
en:So — (Applause)
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:正如你在视频中所看到的，这些螨虫在小蜜蜂中爬行，而养蜂人治理这些螨虫的典型做法就是在蜂房里使用化学药品。长远来看，这是一个坏消息，因此研究人员正在寻找治理这些螨虫的替代方案。
en:As you can see halfwaythrough that video,the mites were running aroundon the baby bees,and the way that beekeeperstypically manage these mitesis they treat their hives with chemicals.In the long run, that&#39;s bad news,so researchers are workingon finding alternativesto control these mites.
时间： 3:27
zh-cn:以下是这些替代方案中的一个。这是位于巴吞鲁日的美国农业部蜜蜂实验室的一个试验性育种计划，这只蜂后和她的工蜂是这个计划的一部分。
en:This is one of those alternatives.It&#39;s an experimental breeding programat the USDA Bee Lab in Baton Rouge,and this queen and her attendant beesare part of that program.
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:研究人员了解到有些蜜蜂天生拥有抗螨的能力，所以它们被选出来培育抗螨的蜜蜂。这就是在实验室培育蜜蜂的情景。先给这只蜂后施以镇静剂，然后使用这个精密的仪器对它进行人工授精。这个过程使得研究人员可以准确地控制使用哪些蜜蜂来进行杂交，但是这种控制也有一个弊端。他们成功地培育出了抗螨虫的蜜蜂，但在这个过程中，这些蜜蜂也开始失去一些特性，比如它们温顺的性格以及储存蜂蜜的能力，因此为了克服这个弊端，这些研究人员正与商业养蜂人进行合作。这是布雷特·埃德正在打开他拥有的72000个蜂箱中的一个。他和他的兄弟经营着世界上规模最大的养蜂活动，而美国农业部正将自己的抗螨蜜蜂整合到他的蜜蜂中去，并希望经过一段时间，他们能选育出一些不仅抗螨，而且还保有那些对我们有用的特质的蜜蜂。
en:Now, the researchers figured outthat some of the bees havea natural ability to fight mites,so they set out to breeda line of mite-resistant bees.This is what it takesto breed bees in a lab.The virgin queen is sedatedand then artificially inseminatedusing this precision instrument.Now, this procedure allows the researchersto control exactlywhich bees are being crossed,but there&#39;s a tradeoffin having this much control.They succeeded in breedingmite-resistant bees,but in that process, those beesstarted to lose traitslike their gentlenessand their ability to store honey,so to overcome that problem,these researchers are now collaboratingwith commercial beekeepers.This is Bret Adee openingone of his 72,000 beehives.He and his brother run the largestbeekeeping operation in the world,and the USDA is integrating theirmite-resistant bees into his operationwith the hope that over time,they&#39;ll be able to select the beesthat are not only mite-resistantbut also retain all of these qualitiesthat make them useful to us.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:这样说来好像我们是在操纵和利用蜜蜂，而事实是，我们已经这样做了几千年了。我们将这种野生生物放进箱子里，对它进行驯养，我们这样做，原本就是为了收获它们的蜂蜜，但是随着时间的推移，我们开始失去我们的本地传粉者——我们的野生传粉者，并且现在，在很多地方这些野生传粉者对于我们的农业来说是供不应求，所以这些被管理起来的蜜蜂，已经成为我们的食品系统的组成部分。
en:And to say it like thatmakes it sound like we&#39;re manipulatingand exploiting bees,and the truth is, we&#39;ve been doing thatfor thousands of years.We took this wild creatureand put it inside of a box,practically domesticating it,and originally that wasso that we could harvest their honey,but over time we started losingour native pollinators,our wild pollinators,and there are many places nowwhere those wild pollinatorscan no longer meet the pollinationdemands of our agriculture,so these managed bees have becomean integral part of our food system.
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:所以当人们谈论拯救蜜蜂时，我对此的解释是我们需求拯救我们跟蜜蜂的关系，而为了设计新的解决方案，我们得去了解蜜蜂最基础的生物特质，去了解那些我们无法看见的压力对它们产生的影响。换句话说，我们得更贴近地去了解蜜蜂。
en:So when people talk about saving bees,my interpretation of thatis we need to saveour relationship to bees,and in order to design new solutions,we have to understandthe basic biology of beesand understand the effectsof stressors that we sometimes cannot see.In other words, we haveto understand bees up close.
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
