时间： 0:12
zh-cn:抱歉，我无法以真面目示人因为如果这么做，坏人会找上我
en:I am sorry I cannot show you my face,because if I do, the bad guys will come for me.
时间： 0:21
zh-cn:这段旅程始于14年前当时我是个年轻记者，刚从大学毕业
en:My journey started 14 years ago.I was a young reporter. I had just come out of college.
时间： 0:29
zh-cn:然后我拿到一则独家新闻那则独家新闻是十分简单的故事警察向街头小贩收贿警察向街头小贩收贿身为一位年轻的记者，我认为必须以不同方式报导，使这则新闻产生最大的影响力因为每个人都知道这个情形却无法杜绝这个陋习
en:Then I got a scoop.The scoop was quite a very simple story.Police officers were taking bribesfrom hawkers who were hawking on the streets.As a young reporter, I thought that I should do itin a different way, so that it has a maximum impact,since everybody knew that it was happening,and yet there was nothing that was keeping it out of the system.
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:因此我决定走上街头扮成一个小贩卖东西之余，我也能搜集核心证据效果十分显著棒极了
en:So I decided to go thereand act as a seller.As part of selling, I was able to documentthe hard core evidence.The impact was great.It was fantastic.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:这就是人们所谓的浸入式报导或卧底报导我是个卧底记者我的报导立足于三项基本原则：揭露罪犯姓名、使其蒙羞、使其入狱新闻报导的重点在于结果在于影响社区或社会以最具成效的方式我从事这项工作已超过14年我可以告诉各位，效果非常棒
en:This was what many call immersion journalism,or undercover journalism.I am an undercover journalist.My journalism is hinged on three basic principles:naming, shaming and jailing.Journalism is about results.It&#39;s about affecting your community or your societyin the most progressive way.I have worked on this for over 14 years,and I can tell you, the results are very good.
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:我想起其中一个故事来自我的卧底报导标题是〈灵子〉（Spirit Child）内容是关于先天畸形的孩童他们的父母认为一旦孩子先天畸形他们的父母认为一旦孩子先天畸形就不适合生存于这个社会因此他们被迫服用某种药汁孩子因此丧命因此我订制了一个假婴儿前往那座村庄假装这个婴儿先天畸形，这就是那些杀婴凶手他们已准备就绪当他们准备行动时，我请警察在一旁待命他们在那个命运的早晨现身，准备杀婴他们在那个命运的早晨现身，准备杀婴我记得他们多么认真地烹煮药汁他们将药汁放在炉火上，药汁沸腾着准备给孩子服用此时，我事先知会过的警察已在一旁待命此时，我事先知会过的警察已在一旁待命就在药汁完成准备给孩子服用时我打电话给警察所幸警察及时赶到，逮捕了他们我叙述这个故事的当下，他们正在出庭别忘了其中的关键原则：揭露罪犯姓名、使其蒙羞、使其入狱法庭程序正在进行我确信那天结束前我们会找到他们，将他们送往他们该去的地方
en:One story that comes to mindin my undercover piecesis &quot;Spirit Child.&quot;It was about children who were born with deformities,and their parents felt that once they were bornwith those deformities,they were not good enough to live in the society,so they were given some concoction to takeand as a result they died.So I built a prosthetic baby,and I went into the village,pretended as though this baby had been bornwith a deformity, and here was the guys who do the killing.They got themselves ready.In their bids to kill, I got the police on standby,and they came that fateful morningto come and kill the child.I recall how they were seriously boiling the concoction.They put it on fire. It was boiling hot,getting ready to give to the kids.Whilst this was going on, the police I had alerted,they were on standby,and just as the concoction was ready,and they were about to give it to the kids,I phoned the police,and fortunately they came and busted them.As I speak now, they are before the courts.Don&#39;t forget the key principles:naming, shaming and jailing.The court process is taking place,and I&#39;m very sure at the end of the daywe will find them, and we will put themwhere they belong too.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:我想到另一个重要的故事和这个“灵子”现象有关标题为〈白子诅咒〉（The Spell of the Albinos）我相信在座大部分人听说过，在坦桑尼亚罹患白化症的孩童有时被认为不适合生存于这个社会他们肢体遭弯刀截下或许被用于制作药汁或供人图利的药剂或许多人们传言中的用途是再次卧底的时候了因此我展开卧底行动，扮成一位对这门生意感兴趣的人，当然我再次订制了一条假手臂那是第一次，我用隐藏式摄影机拍下进行这项交易的人他们准备购买这条手臂准备用它来调制药剂准备用它来调制药剂
en:Another key story that comes to mind,which relates to this spirit child phenomenon,is &quot;The Spell of the Albinos.&quot;I&#39;m sure most of you may have heard, in Tanzania,children who are born with albinismare sometimes considered as being unfitto live in society.Their bodies are chopped up with machetesand are supposed to be used for some concoctionsor some potions for people to get money —or so many, many stories people would tell about it.It was time to go undercover again.So I went undercover as a man who was interestedin this particular business, of course.Again, a prosthetic arm was built.For the first time, I filmed on hidden camerathe guys who do this, and they were ready to buy the armand they were ready to use it to preparethose potions for people.
时间： 4:22
zh-cn:我很高兴目前坦桑尼亚政府已采取行动但关键问题在于，坦桑尼亚政府只能在证据确凿的情况下采取行动我的报导正是关于核心证据如果我指控你偷窃，我会展示你偷窃的证据如果我指控你偷窃，我会展示你偷窃的证据我会揭露你偷窃的方法偷窃的时间、工具和目的偷窃的时间、工具和目的如果新闻报导对社会没有好处，有何存在的必要？
en:I am glad today the Tanzanian government has taken action,but the key issue is that the Tanzanian governmentcould only take action because the evidence was available.My journalism is about hard core evidence.If I say you have stolen, I show you the evidencethat you have stolen.I show you how you stole itand when, or what you usedwhat you had stolen to do.What is the essence of journalism if it doesn&#39;t benefit society?
时间： 4:52
zh-cn:我的报导源于我的社会我的报导源于我的社会我知道，有时人们对卧底报导有所争议人们对卧底报导有所争议
en:My kind of journalism is a productof my society.I know that sometimespeople have their own criticismsabout undercover journalism.
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:（视频）官员：他从口袋里掏出一些钱放在桌上试图让我们放心他想将可可运往科特迪瓦因为我有其他打算，我保持沉默我一语不发但我的同事毫不知情因此收了钱他离开之后，我们等他把货品带来他离开之后，我立刻告诉同事因为我是这个团队的领导者我告诉同事，如果他们前来我们就将他们逮捕
en:(Video) Official: He brought out some money from his pocketsand put it on the table,so that we should not be afraid.He wants to bring the cocoa and send it to Cote d&#39;Ivoire.So with my hidden intention, I kept quiet.I didn&#39;t utter a word.But my colleagues didn&#39;t know.So after collecting the money,when he left, we were waiting for him to bring the goods.Immediately after he left, I told my colleagues thatsince I was the leader of the group,I told my colleagues that if they come,we will arrest them.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:第二名官员：我甚至不知道那个叫〔不清楚〕的地方我不曾去过那里因此我很讶异你看见有只手在我面前数钱下一秒，你看见钱在我手里数着但我不曾与任何人接触我不曾与任何人进行交易记者：当《都市日报》联系调查记者
en:Second official: I don&#39;t even know the place called [unclear].I&#39;ve never stepped there before.So I&#39;m surprised.You see a hand counting money just in front of me.The next moment, you see the money in my hands,counting, whereas I have not come into contact with anybody.I have not done any business with anybody.Reporter: When Metro News contacted investigative reporter
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:Anas Aremeyaw Anas，想知道他的反应时他只是微笑着，提供这段不曾出现在近期播出的纪录片中的视频之前否认涉案的官员按着计算器计算他们打算对走私可可收取的贿款按着计算器计算他们打算对走私可可收取的贿款
en:Anas Aremeyaw Anas for his reaction,he just smiled and gave this video extracthe did not use in the documentary recently shown onscreen.The officer who earlier denied involvementpecks a calculator to compute the amount of moneythey will charge on the cocoa to be smuggled.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:Anas Aremeyaw Anas：这是另一个与反贪污有关的故事这是那名矢口否认的官员但如各位所见，当你拥有核心证据时就能影响社会有时报上会出现这样的头条（音乐）
en:Anas Aremeyaw Anas: This was another story on anticorruption.And here was him, denying.But you see, when you have the hard core evidence,you are able to affect society.Sometimes these are some of the headlines that come. (Music)
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:〈我诅咒Anas不得好死〉
en:[I will curse Anas to death]
时间： 6:46
zh-cn:〈Anas谎话连篇〉
en:[Anas Lies]
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:〈Anas用以图利的新闻视频引起轩然大波〉
en:[Alarm Blows Over Anas&#39; News for Cash Video]
时间： 6:51
zh-cn:〈对抗缉私局高层官员计划曝光〉
en:[Agenda Against Top CEPS Officials Exposed]
时间： 6:54
zh-cn:〈Anas拥有看不见的力量？〉
en:[Anas Operates with Invisible Powers?]
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:〈Anas的视频令政府不安〉
en:[Gov&#39;t Wobbles Over Anas Video]
时间： 7:00
zh-cn:〈猎捕猎人〉
en:[Hunting the Hunter]
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:〈Anas贿赂出庭者〉
en:[Anas &#39;Bribe&#39; Men in Court]
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:〈Anas的视频害死15人〉
en:[15 Heads Roll Over Anas Tape]
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:〈财政部长力挺Anas〉
en:[Finance Minister Backs Anas]
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:〈对Anas报导的11个质疑〉
en:[11 Given Queries Over Anas&#39; Story]
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:〈加纳记者联盟支持Anas〉
en:[GJA Stands By Anas]
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:〈Anas的视频使Mills总统于特马港大发雷霆〉〈加纳前总统John Evans Atta Mills〉
en:[Prez. Mills Storms Tema Harbour Over Anas Video][&quot;Late Prof. John Evans Atta Mills: Former president of Ghana&quot;]
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:John Evans Atta Mills：很多人对Anas报导的事件并非毫不知情但听着，各位特工还有使海关官员陷入诱惑的人我告诉你们，加纳不会对你们客气我告诉你们，加纳不会对你们客气
en:John Evans Atta Mills: What Anas saysis not something which is unknown to many of us,but please, those of you who are agents,and who are leading the customs officers into temptation,I&#39;m telling you, Ghana is not going to sayany good things to you about this.
时间： 7:49
zh-cn:AAA：那是我国前总统
en:AAA: That was my president.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:我想，既然来到这里我必须给你们一些特别的东西我有个故事，很高兴能在这里第一次分享我曾经在监狱卧底我在那里待了很长一段时间我可以告诉各位，我目睹的情形糟透了但同样地，我无法影响社会影响政府，除非我携出核心证据无数次地，狱方矢口否认存在毒品滥用问题存在鸡奸问题他们否认太多曾经发生过的事存在鸡奸问题他们否认太多曾经发生过的事如何才能取得核心证据？
en:I thought that I couldn&#39;t come herewithout giving you something special.I have a piece, and I&#39;m excited thatI&#39;m sharing it for the first time with you here.I have been undercover in the prisons.I have been there for a long time.And I can tell you, what I saw is not nice.But again, I can only affect societyand affect government if I bring out the hard core evidence.Many times, the prison authorities have deniedever having issues of drug abuse,issues of sodomy, so many issues they would denythat it ever happens.How can you obtain the hard core evidence?
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:因此我进了监狱 〈Nsawan监狱〉好，你们眼中所见的是一堆尸体我碰巧目睹一位室友一位狱友，从卧病在床到死亡的过程我可以告诉各位，简直惨不忍睹狱中的问题包括伙食极差我记得有些食物并不适合人类食用厕所设备：非常差我指的是，你得排队才能用到象样的厕所我所谓的象样是指四人合用一个茅坑这是即使说给某个人听那个人也不会相信的情况使那个人相信的唯一办法就是让他目睹核心证据当然，毒品随处可见在监狱里取得大麻、海洛因和古柯碱甚至比外面更快、更容易
en:So I was in the prison. [&quot;Nsawan Prison&quot;]Now, what you are seeing is a pile of dead bodies.Now, I happen to have followed one of my inmates,one of my friends, from his sick bed till death,and I can tell you it was not a nice thing at all.There were issues of bad food being servedas I recall that some of the food I ateis just not good for a human being.Toilet facilities: very bad.I mean, you had to queue to get proper toilets to attend —and that&#39;s what I call proper,when four of us are on a manhole.It is something that if you narrate it to somebody,the person wouldn&#39;t believe it.The only way that you can let the person believeis when you show hard core evidence.Of course, drugs were abundant.It was easier to get cannabis, heroin and cocaine,faster even, in the prison than outside the prison.
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:社会中的邪恶是一种重病如果罹患重病就必须下重药我的报导或许不适用于其他洲或其他国家但我可以告诉各位，它适用于我所在的非洲地区，因为人们谈到贪污时通常会问，“证据在哪里？”非洲地区，因为人们谈到贪污时通常会问，“证据在哪里？”“我要看证据”我说，“这就是证据”它帮助我将许多人送进监狱
en:Evil in the society is an extreme disease.If you have extreme diseases,you need to get extreme remedies.My kind of journalism might not fit in other continentsor other countries,but I can tell you, it works in my part of the continentof Africa, because usually, when people talkabout corruption, they ask, &quot;Where is the evidence?Show me the evidence.&quot;I say, &quot;This is the evidence.&quot;And that has aided in me putting a lot of people behind bars.
时间：10:15
zh-cn:你们知道，在我身处的非洲揭露这些故事较具影响力，因为我们能面对局势看清局势这就是为何我格外兴奋当我们的《非洲调查》影集播出时我们调查了许多非洲国家由于《非洲调查》影集的成功我们打算着手进行《世界调查》调查结束时将有更多非洲坏人被送进监狱调查结束时将有更多非洲坏人被送进监狱
en:You see, we on the continent are ableto tell the story better because we face the conditionsand we see the conditions.That is why I was particularly excitedwhen we launched our &quot;Africa Investigates&quot; serieswhere we investigated a lot of African countries.As a result of the success of the &quot;Africa Investigates&quot; series,we are moving on to World Investigates.By the end of it, a lot more bad guyson our continent will be put behind bars.
时间：10:43
zh-cn:调查不会停止我打算继续从事这类报导因为我知道，欲打击坏人好人必须携手合作
en:This will not stop.I&#39;m going to carry on with this kind of journalism,because I know that when evil men destroy,good men must build and bind.
时间：10:53
zh-cn:十分感谢
en:Thank you very much.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:04
zh-cn:Chris Anderson：谢谢，谢谢我想请教一些问题你是怎么入狱的？这只是几星期前的事，对吗？
en:Chris Anderson: Thank you. Thank you.I have some questions for you.How did you end up in jail? This was just a few weeks ago, I believe, yeah?
时间：11:12
zh-cn:AAA：是的，你知道，卧底的重点在于安排好行动优先顺序因此我们找人把我送上法庭安排好行动优先顺序因此我们找人把我送上法庭因此我经由完全合法的程序入狱因为那天结束时狱方会确认你是否确实上过法庭因为那天结束时狱方会确认你是否确实上过法庭那就是我入狱的方法
en:AAA: Sure. You know, undercover is all aboutsetting the priorities right, so we got peopleto take me to court.So I went through the very legal process,because at the end of the day, the prison authoritieswant to check whether indeed you have been there or not,and that&#39;s how I got in there.
时间：11:28
zh-cn:CA：因此有人控告你他们把你送上法庭，你因涉案遭到拘留AAA：是的CA：你是故意这么做的？
en:CA: So someone sued you in court,and they took you there, and you were in remand custodyfor part of it, and you did that deliberately.
时间：11:35
zh-cn:AAA：是的，没错
en:AAA: Yes, yes.
时间：11:37
zh-cn:CA：我们谈谈关于恐惧的话题你怎么处理这种感觉因为你经常让自己身处险境你如何克服这一点？
en:CA: Talk to me just about fearand how you manage that,because you&#39;re regularly putting your life at risk.How do you do that?
时间：11:46
zh-cn:AAA：你知道，卧底一向是最后手段进行卧底之前，我们一向照规矩行事只有在确认所有步骤都就绪之后我才会感到自在、无所畏惧只有在确认所有步骤都就绪之后我才会感到自在、无所畏惧我并非独立作业，我有一个后援团队确保我的安全及整个系统正确运作，但状况发生时你必须做出非常明智的决定如果做不到，就会送命因此，当后援系统准备就绪我就没问题我会勇往直前，危险当然存在但这就是职业风险我是指，任何人都可能遭遇风险一旦你知道自己面临什么风险就必须承担风险来临时的后果
en:AAA: You see, undercover is always a last resort.Before we go undercover, we follow the rules.And I&#39;m only comfortable and I&#39;m purged of fearwhenever I am sure that all the stepshave been taken. I don&#39;t do it alone. I have a backup teamwho help ensure that the safety and all the systemsare put in place, but you&#39;ve got to takevery intelligent decisions whenever they are happening.If you don&#39;t, you will end up losing your life.So yes, when the backup systems are put in place,I&#39;m okay, I go in. Risky, yes,but it&#39;s a hazard of a profession.I mean, everybody has their hazard.And once you say that is yours,you&#39;ve got to take it, as and when it comes.
时间：12:24
zh-cn:CA：嗯，你是个了不起的人，从事了不起的工作我想你告诉我们的是所有听众都不曾耳闻的故事十分感谢，我们向你致敬，非常感谢，Anas
en:CA: Well, you&#39;re an amazing human and you&#39;ve done amazing workand you&#39;ve taught us a storylike no story I think any of us have heard before.And we&#39;re appreciative. We salute you. Thank you so much, Anas.
时间：12:35
zh-cn:AAA：谢谢
en:AAA: Thank you.
时间：12:36
zh-cn:CA：谢谢，保重 （掌声）
en:CA: Thank you. Stay safe. (Applause)
