时间： 0:12
zh-cn:当我在今年二月一日到达基辅时，独立广场已被攻陷，被忠于政府的警察包围。抗议群众攻占独立广场，准备战斗，他们备有自制的武器，并大批量生产临时防弹衣。在乌克兰总统维克托·亚努科维奇拒绝与欧盟长远同盟，而强化与俄罗斯的关系之后，亲欧派于2013年底开始和平示威，成千上万的民众心怀不满，涌入基辅市中心示威，反对政府对俄罗斯的忠诚。
en:When I arrived in Kiev,on February 1 this year,Independence Square was under siege,surrounded by policeloyal to the government.The protesters who occupied Maidan,as the square is known,prepared for battle,stockpiling homemade weaponsand mass-producing improvised body armor.The Euromaidan protests began peacefullyat the end of 2013,after the president of Ukraine,Viktor Yanukovych,rejected a far-reaching accordwith the European Unionin favor of stronger ties with Russia.In response, tens of thousandsof dissatisfied citizenspoured into central Kievto demonstrate against this allegiance.
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:几个月的时间内，人民与警察的冲突愈演愈烈。我在Hrushevsky街的路障旁搭建了一个临时摄影工作室，我搭起一个黑色幕布，拍下了一名又一名战士。这个黑色幕布遮住了喧嚣与宁静，掩盖了硝烟、冰霜与战火。为了讲述这里每个人的故事，我觉得我需要抹去那些充斥在主流媒体上的纷杂的画面。眼前的一切对我而言不只是新闻，更是历史。当我认识到这一点后，我不再拘束于传统报刊杂志摄影记者的条条框框。Oleg, Vasiliy 和 Maxim 都曾是普通男人，都曾住在普通的城镇，过着普通人的生活。但他们精心穿戴的装束非常特别。我用「装束」这个词是因为这些衣服都不是统一发放的，只是临时装束，配有淘汰的军械，还有从警察那里获得的战利品和行色各异的迷彩服。吸引我的是他们表现自己的方式，展现男性气魄，散发斗士光辉。
en:As the months passed,confrontations between policeand civilians intensified.I set up a makeshift portrait studioby the barricades on Hrushevsky Street.There, I photographedthe fighters against a black curtain,a curtain that obscuredthe highly seductive and visual backdropof fire, ice and smoke.In order to tell the individualhuman stories here,I felt that I needed to removethe dramatic visualsthat had become so familiar and repetitivewithin the mainstream media.What I was witnessingwas not only news, but also history.With this realization,I was free fromthe photojournalistic conventionsof the newspaper and the magazine.Oleg, Vasiliy and Maximwere all ordinary men,with ordinary lives from ordinary towns.But the elaborate costumesthat they had bedecked themselves inwere quite extraordinary.I say the word &quot;costume&quot;because these were not clothesthat had been issuedor coordinated by anyone.They were improvised uniformsmade up of decommissionedmilitary equipment,irregular combat fatiguesand trophies taken from the police.I became interested in the way theywere choosing to represent themselves,this outward expression of masculinity,the ideal of the warrior.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:我并不急于拍下这一幅幅画面，我架起一台模拟胶片相机，手动调焦，手动调节环境光度，这种拍摄方式早已过时，却让我有了更多时间与每个人对话，我看着他们，他们也看着我，相对无言。
en:I worked slowly,using an analog film camerawith a manual focusing loopand a handheld light meter.The process is old-fashioned.It gives me time to speak with each personand to look at them, in silence,while they look back at me.
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:紧张的局势在二月二十日集中爆发，这一天被称为「血腥星期四」。忠于政府的狙击手将炮火对准Institutskaya街上的民众和示威者，片刻间死伤无数。乌克兰旅馆成了临时停尸间，成排的尸体铺在街上，鲜血染红了土地。第二天，总统亚努科维奇逃离乌克兰。三个月的游行示威以来，共有120多人死亡，更大数量的人失踪。历史的车轮滚滚向前，但黎明的曙光遥遥无期。
en:Rising tensions culminatedin the worst day of violenceon February 20,which became known as Bloody Thursday.Snipers, loyal to the government,started firing on the civiliansand protesters on Institutskaya Street.Many were killedin a very short space of time.The reception of the Hotel Ukrainebecame a makeshift morgue.There were linesof bodies laid in the street.And there was bloodall over the pavements.The following day,President Yanukovych fled Ukraine.In all, three months of protestsresulted in more than 120 confirmed deadand many more missing.History unfolded quickly,but celebration remainedelusive in Maidan.
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:悲惨过后，在基辅的中央广场，成千上万的普通民众跟随武装战士，涌向街道，集体向逝者哀悼。许多妇女手持鲜花，祭奠逝去的生命，日复一日，广场上布满了花朵，哀伤笼罩着独立广场，异常寂静，鸟鸣不绝于耳，这是以前不曾听到过的。
en:As the days passedin Kiev&#39;s central square,streams of armed fighterswere joined by tens of thousandsof ordinary people,filling the streets in an actof collective mourning.Many were women who often carried flowersthat they had brought to layas marks of respect for the dead.They came day after dayand they covered the squarewith millions of flowers.Sadness enveloped Maidan.It was quiet and I could hearthe birds singing.I hadn&#39;t heard that before.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:我拦下那些前往街垒祭奠亡者的妇女们，询问能否拍摄她们，在我的镜头前，大多妇女泪流不止。在第一天拍摄她们时，我的摄影助理Emine和我一同与几乎每一位来到摄影棚的妇女哭泣。在那之前，我们很久没拍摄过女性了。鲜亮的外套，亮丽的手袋，红色的康乃馨，白色的郁金香，黄色的玫瑰花，斑斓的色彩与黑沉的广场、与长眠于黑暗的逝者交织在一起。
en:I stopped womenas they approached the barricadesto lay their tributesand asked to make their picture.Most women cried when I photographed them.On the first day,my fixer, Emine, and I criedwith almost every womanwho visited our studio.There had been such a noticeableabsence of womenup until that point.And the color of their pastel coats,their shiny handbags,and the bunches of red carnations,white tulips and yellow rosesthat they carriedjarred with the blackened squareand the blackened menwho were encamped there.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:我强烈地感受到，正是鲜明的对比赋予这两套影像意义，这种意义通过男女的对比而体现，也通过我们自身——不是看起来的样子 —— 而是通过自身而体现，这两套影像展现了男女各自鲜明的角色，不只是在独立广场，也不只是在乌克兰：男人浴血奋战，女人为之哀悼。如果说，男人象征勇士，女人则象征战争背后的哀伤。
en:It is clear to methat these two sets of picturesdon&#39;t make much sense without the other.They are about men and womenand the way we are —not the way we look,but the way we are.They speak about differentgender roles in conflict,not only in Maidan,and not only in Ukraine.Men fight most wars and women mourn them.If the men showedthe ideal of the warrior,then the women showedthe implications of such violence.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:当我拍下这些相片的时候，我以为我记录下的是乌克兰暴力事件的尾声，现在我才知道，我记录下的是起点。至今，死亡人数统计约为三千人，成千上万的人流离失所。六周前我又去了乌克兰，在独立广场，路障已经清除了，在暴乱时被用作武器的铺路石已被取代，广场中心的交通得以畅通。战士，妇女和花都不见了。一幅巨大的画着一群大雁飞过麦田的布告板悬挂于工会大厦外墙，用以遮掩炮火的痕迹。布告板上写着，「乌克兰光荣，英雄们光荣。」谢谢各位。（掌声）
en:When I made these pictures,I believed that I was documentingthe end of violent events in Ukraine.But now I understandthat it is a record of the beginning.Today, the death toll stands around 3,000,while hundreds of thousandshave been displaced.I was in Ukraine again six weeks ago.In Maidan, the barricadeshave been dismantled,and the paving stones which were usedas weapons during the protests replaced,so that traffic flows freelythrough the center of the square.The fighters, the womenand the flowers are gone.A huge billboard depicting geeseflying over a wheat fieldcovers the burned-out shellof the trade union&#39;s buildingand proclaims,&quot;Glory to Ukraine.Glory to heroes.&quot;Thank you.(Applause).
