时间： 0:13
zh-cn:这个地方是临近利斯塔的一个叫　伊拉的小村庄。它就在挪威的最西边。在今年的9月2日，一位住在这个村里的长者去看了在最近的一次风暴之后有什么东西被冲上岸了。就在水边的一片草地上，他发现了一身潜水服。是黑灰色的，而且他觉得看起来挺便宜的。在潜水服每条裤腿的外侧都粘着两根白色的骨头。很显然，那是一个人的残骸。
en:So this right hereis the tiny village of Elle,close to Lista.It&#39;s right at the southernmosttip of Norway.And on January 2 this year,an elderly guy who lives in the village,he went out to see what was cast ashoreduring a recent storm.And on a patch of grassright next to the water&#39;s edge,he found a wetsuit.It was grey and black,and he thought it looked cheap.Out of each leg of the wetsuitthere were sticking two white bones.It was clearly the remainsof a human being.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:在挪威，通常死者很快就可以确定身份。警方就在当地区域根据来自当地的失踪报告，国家的失踪报告展开了调查，寻找一些可能会有所关联的事故。然而他们一无所获。所以他们就进行了DNA检测，他们还通过国际刑警组织开始了全球范围内的调查。还是什么都查不到。这个失踪的人好像是根本就不存在一样。好像是一个无形的生命走进了一座无名的坟墓。但是，在一个月之后，挪威警方接到了荷兰警方的通知。在几个月前，荷兰警方发现了一具尸体，穿着完全相同的潜水服，他们也查不出来那个人是谁。但荷兰警方试着去通过缝在潜水服里面的一个无线射频芯片来追踪这身衣服。然后他们就发现了这两身潜水服都是由同一个人，在同一时间买下的，时间是2014年10月7日，地点是在英吉利海峡边一个叫做加来的法国城市。但是这也是他们能找出的所有的线索了。那个人是用现金买的。商店里没有监控录像。这就变成了一宗悬案。
en:And usually, in Norway,dead people are identified quickly.So the police started searchingthrough missing reportsfrom the local area,national missing reports,and looked for accidentswith a possible connection.They found nothing.So they ran a DNA profile,and they started searchinginternationally through Interpol.Nothing.This was a personthat nobody seemed to be missing.It was an invisible lifeheading for a nameless grave.But then, after a month,the police in Norway got a messagefrom the police in the Netherlands.A couple of months earlier,they had found a body,in an identical wetsuit,and they had no idea who this person was.But the police in the Netherlandsmanaged to trace the wetsuitby an RFID chip that was sewn in the suit.So they were then able to tellthat both wetsuits were boughtby the same customer at the same time,October 7, 2014,in the French city of Calaisby the English Channel.But this was allthey were able to figure out.The customer paid cash.There was no surveillancefootage from the shop.So it became a cold case.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:听说了这个故事后，我和我的同事，摄影师 Tomm Christiansen都被深深地吸引了，当然我们也怀有很显然的疑问：这些人是谁啊？那时，我根本就没怎么听说过加来，但只过了两三秒钟我就想起来了加来基本上只有两样东西很出名。它是欧洲大陆上最靠近英国的地点；有很多的移民和难民都住在这的难民营里，而且他们每时每刻都拼命地想穿越海峡去英国。那时关于那两个人的身份产生了一种比较说得通的猜测的，警方也得出了这个猜测。因为如果是你，或者我，或者任何一个在欧洲是土生土长的人，在法国的海岸边失踪了，那么人们都会知道的。你的朋友或你的家人肯定会报警说你失踪了，警方就会开始搜寻你，媒体也会知晓，在街边的路灯柱上也会贴出你的照片。想要不留痕迹地就失踪了是很难的。但如果你是从叙利亚的战场上逃离的，那你的家人，如果你还有任何家人的话，也不一定知道你在哪，你在这里非法的生活，每天有成千上万的人在你身边经过。那么，如果有一天你消失了，谁也不会注意。警方也不会搜寻你，因为没人知道你离开了。
en:We heard this story,and it triggered me and my colleague,photographer Tomm Christiansen,and we of course had the obvious question:who were these people?At the time, I&#39;d barelyheard about Calais,but it took about twoor three seconds to figure outCalais is basically known for two things.It&#39;s the spot in continental Europeclosest to Britain,and a lot of migrants and refugeesare staying in this campand are trying desperatelyto cross over to Britain.And right there was a plausible theoryabout the identity of the two people,and the police made this theory as well.Because if you or I or anybody elsewith a firm connection to Europegoes missing off the coast of France,people would just know.Your friends or familywould report you missing,the police would come search for you,the media would know,and there would bepictures of you on lampposts.It&#39;s difficult to disappearwithout a trace.But if you just fled the war in Syria,and your family,if you have any family left,don&#39;t necessarily know where you are,and you&#39;re staying here illegallyamongst thousands of otherswho come and go every day.Well, if you disappear one day,nobody will notice.The police won&#39;t come search for youbecause nobody knows you&#39;re gone.
时间： 3:17
zh-cn:这就是从叙利亚来的Shadi Omar Kataf和Mouaz Al Balkhi两人的遭遇。
en:And this is what happenedto Shadi Omar Katafand Mouaz Al Balkhi from Syria.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:今年四月，我和Tomm第一次去加来，经过三个月的调查后，我们现在可以给大家讲一讲那两个从叙利亚战场上逃离的年轻人是如何买了潜水服，然后大概是想要穿越英吉利海峡去英国时被淹死在加来结束了生命的。这是一个真实的故事，每个人都有自己的名字，每个人都有自己的故事，每个人都是真实存在的。但这是一个关于如今欧洲的难民是如何生活的故事。
en:Me and Tomm went to Calaisfor the first time in April this year,and after three months of investigation,we were able to tell the storyabout how these two young menfled the war in Syria,ended up stuck in Calais,bought wetsuits and drownedin what seems to have been an attemptto swim across the English Channelin order to reach England.It is a story about the factthat everybody has a name,everybody has a story,everybody is someone.But it is also a story about whatit&#39;s like to be a refugee in Europe today.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:这就是我们开始调查的地方。这是加来。现在，有大概3500到5000生活条件很差的人生活在这个地方。这里被称为全欧洲最糟糕的难民营。有限的食物，有限的用水，有限的卫生保健。疾病和传染病大肆横行。他们全都困在这个地方因为他们都想去英国去寻求庇护。他们通过藏在驶向轮渡或者是驶向欧洲隧道的卡车后面，或者他们趁夜间溜到隧道口试着去爬上火车藏到火车里。
en:So this is where we started our search.This is in Calais.Right now, between 3,500and 5,000 people are living hereunder horrible conditions.It has been dubbedthe worst refugee camp in Europe.Limited access to food,limited access to water,limited access to health care.Disease and infections are widespread.And they&#39;re all stuck herebecause they&#39;re trying to get to Englandin order to claim asylum.And they do that by hiding in the backof trucks headed for the ferry,or the Eurotunnel,or they sneak insidethe tunnel terminal at nightto try to hide on the trains.
时间： 4:28
zh-cn:大多数人都想去英国因为他们懂英语，他们觉得在那里重新开始他们的生活会简单很多。他们想要工作，想要学习，他们想要继续他们的生活。他们中的许多人其实是受过高等教育的，也有很多是技术工人。如果你到加来和那些难民交谈，你会碰到律师，政治家，工程师，平面设计师，农民和士兵。你会看到三百六十行。但是他们所有人其实是难以区分是难民还是移民的，因为我们经常“用数据说话”。
en:Most want to go to Britainbecause they know the language,and so they figure it would be easierto restart their lives from there.They want to work, they want to study,they want to be ableto continue their lives.A lot of these people arehighly educated and skilled workers.If you go to Calais and talk to refugees,you&#39;ll meet lawyers, politicians,engineers, graphic designers,farmers, soldiers.You&#39;ve got the whole spectrum.But who all of these people areusually gets lost in the waywe talk about refugees and migrants,because we usually do that in statistics.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:全球有6000万的难民。到现在为止今年已经有大概50万穿过了地中海到达了欧洲，粗略的算，有4000人正待在加来。但这些只是数字，对于这些人是谁，他们从哪来，为什么他们要来这儿，数据其实是说不清的。
en:So you have 60 million refugees globally.About half a millionhave made the crossingover the Mediterraneaninto Europe so far this year,and roughly 4,000 are staying in Calais.But these are numbers,and the numbers don&#39;t say anythingabout who these people are,where they came from, or why they&#39;re here.
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:首先，我想给你们讲讲他们其中的一个人。来自叙利亚的22岁的Mouaz Al Balkhi。我们是在第一次到加来调查寻找那两具尸体时第一次听说到他的。过了一段时间，我们听说了这样一个故事。一个住在英国布拉德福德的叙利亚男人已经绝望地寻找了他的侄子Mouaz好几个月。他发现了最后一次有人听到Mouaz的消息是在2014年10月7日。和那两身潜水服卖出去的时间是同一天。我们飞到了布拉德福德，找到了那个叔叔，我们对他采取了DNA样本，之后又对目前住在约旦的Mouaz的亲近亲属采取了另外的DNA样本。分析结果表明那具在荷兰的海滩上找到的穿着潜水服的尸体就是Mouaz Al Balkhi。当我们在做所有这些调查的时候，我们了解到了Mouaz的故事。他于1991年在叙利亚首都大马士革出生。他生长在一个中产阶级家庭，他的父亲是一名化学工程师，由于属于叙利亚政治反对派坐了11年的牢。他的父亲在狱中的时候，Mouaz承担起了照顾家的责任，他照顾他的三个妹妹。他们都说他是个好人。Mouaz在大马士革大学学成后成为了一名电气工程师。
en:And first, I want to tell youabout one of them.This is 22-year-oldMouaz Al Balkhi from Syria.We first heard about himafter being in Calais the first timelooking for answers to the theoryof the two dead bodies.And after a while, we heard this storyabout a Syrian manwho was living in Bradford in England,and had been desperately searchingfor his nephew Mouaz for months.And it turned out the last timeanybody had heard anything from Mouazwas October 7, 2014.That was the same datethe wetsuits were bought.So we flew over there and we met the uncleand we did DNA samples of him,and later on got additional DNA samplesfrom Mouaz&#39;s closest relativewho now lives in Jordan.The analysis concludedthe body who was found in a wetsuiton a beach in the Netherlandswas actually Mouaz Al Balkhi.And while we were doingall this investigation,we got to know Mouaz&#39;s story.He was born in the Syrian capitalof Damascus in 1991.He was raised in a middle class family,and his father in the middle thereis a chemical engineerwho spent 11 years in prison for belongingto the political opposition in Syria.While his father was in prison,Mouaz took responsibilityand he cared for his three sisters.They said he was that kind of guy.Mouaz studied to becomean electrical engineerat the University of Damascus.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:叙利亚战争结束的几年之后，他们一家离开了大马士革，搬到了邻国约旦。他们的父亲在约旦找不到工作，Mouaz也不能继续他的学业，然后他就想，“好吧，我帮助家里的最好的办法就是去一个可以完成我的学业还可以找到工作的地方了。”于是他就去了土耳其。
en:So a couple of years into the Syrian war,the family fled Damascus and wentto the neighboring country, Jordan.Their father had problemsfinding work in Jordan,and Mouaz could not continue his studies,so he figured, &quot;OK, the best thingI can do to help my familywould be to go somewherewhere I can finish my studiesand find work.&quot;So he goes to Turkey.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:在土耳其，他没找到能接收他的大学，而且一旦他作为一个难民离开了约旦，他就不能再回去了。所以他打算去英国，去投奔他的叔叔。他先到了阿尔及利亚，然后又走到了利比亚，给了人贩子钱帮助他，用船把他带到了意大利，他从意大利出发又到了敦刻尔克，一个临近英吉利海峡的就在加来旁边的城市。我们知道了他曾经藏在卡车后面尝试穿过英吉利海峡有至少12次，但都没有成功。也许有的时候，他觉得天都塌了。我们知道的他还活着的最后一夜，是在敦刻尔克火车站旁边的一个便宜的小旅馆中度过的。我们在登记表中找到了他的名字，他当时应该是独自一人住的。那天后，他到了加来，在晚八点前的几分钟他和Shadi Kataf一起进入了一家体育用品商店。他们一人一身潜水服，一个在商店中的女人是我们知道的最后一个看到他们还活着的人。我们试着去弄明白Shadi是在哪遇见Mouaz的，但是我们没有查到。但他们确实有着相似的经历。我们第一次听说了Shadi这个人，是在一个Shadi住在德国的表兄那里。他看了在Facebook上，Mouaz故事的阿拉伯译文。所以我们就联系上了他的那个表兄。Shadi比Mouaz大几岁，也是在大马士革长大的。他工作很勤奋。他经营着一个轮胎修理厂，后来又在一个印刷厂工作。他有一个大家庭，但是早期他们家的房子在战争中被炸毁了。所以整个家庭搬到了大马士革一个叫亚蒙克难民营的地方。
en:In Turkey, he&#39;s not acceptedat a university,and once he had left Jordan as a refugee,he was not allowed to reenter.So then he decides to head for the UK,where his uncle lives.He makes it into Algeria,walks into Libya,pays a people smuggler to help himwith the crossing into Italy by boat,and from there on he heads to Dunkirk,the city right next to Calaisby the English Channel.We know he made at least 12 failedattempts to cross the English Channelby hiding in a truck.But at some point,he must have given up all hope.The last night we know he was alive,he spent at a cheap hotelclose to the train station in Dunkirk.We found his name in the records,and he seems to have stayed there alone.The day after, he went into Calais,entered a sports shopa couple of minutesbefore 8 o&#39;clock in the evening,along with Shadi Kataf.They both bought wetsuits,and the woman in the shopwas the last person we know ofto have seen them alive.We have tried to figure outwhere Shadi met Mouaz,but we weren&#39;t able to do that.But they do have a similar story.We first heard about Shadiafter a cousin of his, living in Germany,had read an Arabic translationof the story made of Mouaz on Facebook.So we got in touch with him.Shadi, a couple of years older than Mouaz,was also raised in Damascus.He was a working kind of guy.He ran a tire repair shopand later worked in a printing company.He lived with his extended family,but their house got bombedearly in the war.So the family fled to an areaof Damascus known as Camp Yarmouk.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:亚蒙克被称为是整个地球上，最不适宜人类生活的地方。他们一家经常遭受军事行动的轰炸，他们一家被包围过，他们一家还曾经受到过ISIS的威胁，他们有很多年都没有接受过各种供应了。去年有一位联合国官员去参观了那个地方，之后他说：“难民们把那的草都吃了，所以现在那已经寸草不生了。”15万的人口中应该只有1万8千人还住在亚蒙克那个地方。Shadi和他的姐姐妹妹离开了那里。但他们的父母还被困在那里。
en:Yarmouk is being describedas the worst place to liveon planet Earth.They&#39;ve been bombed by the military,they&#39;ve been besieged,they&#39;ve been stormed by ISISand they&#39;ve been cut offfrom supplies for years.There was a UN officialwho visited last year,and he said, &quot;They ate all the grassso there was no grass left.&quot;Out of a population of 150,000,only 18,000 are believedto still be left in Yarmouk.Shadi and his sisters got out.The parents are still stuck inside.
时间： 9:17
zh-cn:所以Shadi和他的一个姐姐逃到了利比亚。时间是在卡扎菲垮台之后，在利比亚爆发全面内战之前。在这个利比亚短暂稳定的时期，Shadi拿起了他的潜水器，把他的大把时间都花在了练习潜水上。他深深地爱上了大海，所以当他最后决定他不再留在利比亚时，也就是在2014年八月底，他希望到了意大利后能找一个潜水员的工作。然而现实很残酷。我们对他的旅途知之甚少，因为他很难联系上他的家人，但是我们知道他一直在努力。九月底的时候，他住在法国的大街上的某处。10月7日，他打电话给他在比利时的表兄，说了他的处境。他说：“我在加来。我需要你来拿我的背包和笔记本电脑。我没钱给人贩子把我带到英国了，但我会买身潜水服游过去。”当然了，他的堂兄曾试着警告他不要这样做，但是Shadi的手机没电了，他的手机也再也没开过。近三个月后，Shadi的遗骸才在800公里之外挪威海滩上的一件潜水服里被找到。他在挪威的葬礼还没能举办他的家人谁也参加不了葬礼。
en:So Shadi and one of his sisters,they fled to Libya.This was after the fall of Gaddafi,but before Libya turnedinto full-blown civil war.And in this last remainingsort of stability in Libya,Shadi took up scuba diving, and he seemedto spend most of his time underwater.He fell completely in love with the ocean,so when he finally decidedthat he could no longer be in Libya,late August 2014,he hoped to find workas a diver when he reached Italy.Reality was not that easy.We don&#39;t know much about his travelsbecause he had a hard timecommunicating with his family,but we do know that he struggled.And by the end of September,he was living on the streetssomewhere in France.On October 7, he callshis cousin in Belgium,and explains his situation.He said, &quot;I&#39;m in Calais. I need youto come get my backpack and my laptop.I can&#39;t afford to pay the people smugglersto help me with the crossing to Britain,but I will go buy a wetsuitand I will swim.&quot;His cousin, of course,tried to warn him not to,but Shadi&#39;s batteryon the phone went flat,and his phone was never switched on again.What was left of Shadiwas found nearly three months later,800 kilometers awayin a wetsuit on a beach in Norway.He&#39;s still waitingfor his funeral in Norway,and none of his familywill be able to attend.
时间：10:46
zh-cn:很多人可能都觉得Shadi和Mouaz的故事是一个关于死亡的故事但我不这么认为。对我来说，关于这个故事有两个问题值得我们深思：什么是更好的生活？为了达成那种生活我应该怎样去做？对于我来说，可能也是对你们中的大多数人来说，更好的生活可能意味着做更多的我们觉得有意义的事，可能是花更多的时间陪陪家人，和朋友相处，或是到异国他乡旅游，或是挣更多的钱买很酷的新装置，或者一双新的运动鞋。这些都是我们很容易就能获得的。
en:Many may think that the storyabout Shadi and Mouazis a story about death,but I don&#39;t agree.To me, this is a story about two questionsthat I think we all share:what is a better life,and what am I willing to do to achieve it?And to me, and probably a lot of you,a better life would meanbeing able to do moreof what we think of as meaningful,whether that be spending more timewith your family and friends,travel to an exotic place,or just getting moneyto buy that cool new deviceor a pair of new sneakers.And this is allwithin our reach pretty easily.
时间：11:22
zh-cn:但如果你身陷战区，对于这两个问题的回答就会截然不同了。更美好的生活意味着安全的生活。意味着有尊严的生活。更好的生活就是你的房子没有被炸毁，不用担心被绑架。你可以把你的孩子送去学校上学，一直上到大学，或者仅仅是找一个可以养活你和你爱的人的工作。更好的生活可能是还对未来有一些希望而不是毫无希望，这是一种很强的动力。我不难想象作为一个二等公民，住在大街上或难民营里，这样的地方还被称作“丛林”这样一个很愚蠢的，带有种族主义的名字,像这样生活了数周甚至数月后，我们中的很多人都会想去做任何事情。如果我可以在Shadi和Mouaz踏进英吉利海峡冰冷的水中的那一刻问他们是否值得，他们可能都会说，“这值得冒险。”因为他们看不到其它任何选择。这很令人绝望，但这也是生命的真实写照。
en:But if you are fleeing a war zone,the answers to those two questionsare dramatically different.A better life is a life in safety.It&#39;s a life in dignity.A better life meansnot having your house bombed,not fearing being kidnapped.It means being ableto send your children to school,go to university,or just find work to be able to providefor yourself and the ones you love.A better life would bea future of some possibilitiescompared to nearly none,and that&#39;s a strong motivation.And I have no trouble imaginingthat after spending weeks or even monthsas a second-grade citizen,living on the streetsor in a horrible makeshift campwith a stupid, racist namelike &quot;The Jungle,&quot;most of us would be willingto do just about anything.If I could ask Shadi and Mouazthe second they stepped into the freezingwaters of the English Channel,they would probably say,&quot;This is worth the risk,&quot;because they couldno longer see any other option.And that&#39;s desperation,but that&#39;s the reality of livingas a refugee in Western Europe in 2015.
时间：12:36
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：12:38
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：12:48
zh-cn:Bruno Giussani：谢谢你，Anders。这就是Tomm Christiansen，你们看到的大部分照片都是他拍的，他们俩也是一起做的采访。Tomm，你们俩最近又去了一次加来。这是第三次旅行了。也是在这篇文章出版之后了。有什么变化吗？你们看到了什么？
en:Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Anders.This is Tomm Christiansen,who took most of the pictures you haveseen and they&#39;ve done reporting together.Tomm, you two have beenback to Calais recently.This was the third trip.It was after the publicationof the article.What has changed?What have you seen there?
时间：13:04
zh-cn:Tomm Christiansen：我们第一次到加来的时候，那里大概有1500名难民。他们的日子很难过，但他们很积极，而且满怀希望。最后一次到那的时候，难民营人又多了，大概有四五千人。难民营看起来更长期化了，非政府组织到了那里，也在那里开设了一个小学校。但是难民们都在那待了很长时间了，法国政府也准备把边界更好地封锁起来，所以现在“丛林”正在逐渐扩大，难民们的失望和绝望的情绪也更加蔓延了。
en:Tomm Christiansen:The first time we were in Calais,it was about 1,500 refugees there.They had a difficult time,but they were positive, they had hope.The last time, the camp has grown,maybe four or five thousand people.It seemed more permanent,NGOs have arrived,a small school has opened.But the thing is that the refugeeshave stayed for a longer time,and the French government has managedto seal off the borders better,so now The Jungle is growing,along with the despairand hopelessness among the refugees.
时间：13:37
zh-cn:BG：你们还打算再回去继续进行采访吗？
en:BG: Are you planning to go back?And continue the reporting?
时间：13:42
zh-cn:TC：是的。
en:TC: Yes.
时间：13:43
zh-cn:BG：Anders，我以前也是个记者，对我来说，在当今到处都在削减预算，出版商们都陷入危机之时，你的故事又有那么多讨论报纸新闻界要负责任的内容，《挪威日报》还能同意为这个故事留出那么多版面真的很让我吃惊，你是怎么把这个故事“销售”给编辑们的？
en:BG: Anders, I&#39;m a former journalist,and to me, it&#39;s amazingthat in the current climateof slashing budgetsand publishers in crisis,Dagbladet has consentedso many resources for this story,which tells a lot about newspaperstaking the responsibility,but how did you sell it to your editors?
时间：14:01
zh-cn:Anders Fjellberg：其实一开始并不简单，因为我们也不知道我们到底能不能找出答案。就在答案逐渐清晰的时候，也就是我们能真的找出第一个人是谁的时候，我们得到了这样一个消息：我们想做什么都可以，想去哪调查就去哪，想做什么就做什么，就这样，我们成功了。
en:Anders Fjellberg: It wasn&#39;t easy at first,because we weren&#39;t able to knowwhat we actually could figure out.As soon as it became clearthat we actually could be ableto identify who the first one was,we basically got the messagethat we could do whatever we wanted,just travel wherever you need to go,do whatever you need to do,just get this done.
时间：14:22
zh-cn:BG：编辑可是负了责的啊。顺便说一句，这个故事已经被翻译成很多语言并且在一些欧洲国家出版了，当然了，还会在更多国家出版。我们也都想知道你们的最新进展。Anders，Tomm，谢谢你们。
en:BG: That&#39;s an editortaking responsibility.The story, by the way,has been translated and publishedacross several European countries,and certainly will continue to do.And we want to read the updates from you.Thank you Anders. Thank you Tomm.
时间：14:34
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
