时间： 0:11
zh-cn:学校教育的全方位开放目前还是一件可望而不可及的事。我们历尽艰辛才弄明白学习不是一个在哪学的问题，而是一项活动。
en:Radical openness is still a distant futurein the field of school education.We have such a hard time figuring outthat learning is not a place but an activity.
时间： 0:23
zh-cn:以下我要给大家介绍一下PISA（国际学生评估方案），这个方案是OECD（济合作与发展组织）用来测量世界上15岁孩子们知识和技能的测试方案，这一测试方案向我们展示了国与国之间的教育比较是如何把原本是一国内政事务的教育领域全球化的。
en:But I want to tell you the story of PISA,OECD&#39;s test to measure the knowledge and skillsof 15-year-olds around the world,and it&#39;s really a story of how international comparisonshave globalized the field of education that we usually treatas an affair of domestic policy.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:我们先从高中毕业生的比例这一标的来看看20世纪60年代世界各国的教育是什么样子的。我们可以看到，美国遥遥领先排在首位，而美国所取得的经济成就在很大程度上得益于其长期作为教育先行者的教育强国地位。到了70年代，有些国家赶上来了，到80年代，全球性的人才扩展持续。90年代，世界各国教育的发展并没停步。所以，在60年代，美国教育排第一。到90年代，其排名第13位，其排名的下降，不是因为其本身的教育水准降低了，而是因为别国的教育水平大大提高了。
en:Look at how the world looked in the 1960s,in terms of the proportion of peoplewho had completed high school.You can see the United States ahead of everyone else,and much of the economic success of the United Statesdraws on its long-standing advantageas the first mover in education.But in the 1970s, some countries caught up.In the 1980s, the global expansionof the talent pool continued.And the world didn&#39;t stop in the 1990s.So in the &#39;60s, the U.S. was first.In the &#39;90s, it was 13th,and not because standards had fallen,but because they had risen so much faster elsewhere.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:韩国教育的（成功）经验向我们展示了教育的无限可能性。两代人以前，韩国的生活水平跟今天的阿富汗一样其教育水平也是全球表现最差国之一。而今天，韩国普及了高中教育。
en:Korea shows you what&#39;s possible in education.Two generations ago, Korea had the standard of livingof Afghanistan today,and was one of the lowest education performers.Today, every young Korean finishes high school.
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:这告诉我们，在全球经济中，衡量一国教育成功的基准不再只局限于本国的进步，而是要将其放到国际上最好的教育系统中去进行比对才有意义。可问题是测量一个人在学校花的时间的多少或者他们取得什么样的学位并不能判断其实际工作能力。目前的情况是，大街上到处都是失业的毕业生而雇主却说他们招不到他们所需要的专业技术人材。这说明拥有好的学位并不等于会拥有相应的好技能、好工作和美好生活。
en:So this tells us that, in a global economy,it is no longer national improvement that&#39;s the benchmark for success,but the best performing education systems internationally.The trouble is thatmeasuring how much time people spend in schoolor what degree they have got is not alwaysa good way of seeing what they can actually do.Look at the toxic mix of unemployed graduates on our streets,while employers say they cannot find the peoplewith the skills they need.And that tells you that better degrees don&#39;t automatically translateinto better skills and better jobs and better lives.
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:所以我们想运用PISA方法，直接测量人们的知识和技能以此来改变这种现象。我们对此采取了一个非常特殊的视角。我们对学生是否能简单地复制他们在学校里学到的知识不很感兴趣，我们想测试的是他们能否运用他们已学的知识来进行推理并将新知识运用到解决末知领域的问题中去。可有人因此批评我们。他们说，这种测量得出的结果对人们是非常不公平的，因为我们用学生们以前没见过的问题来测试他们。但是，如果按这种逻辑你会认为，人生十分的不公平，对生活的真理的检验，不在于我们是否能记住了多少我们在学校里学的东西，而在于我们是否作好了随时应变的准备、在于我们是否已经作好了从事那些需要使用还没有发明的技术去解决我们今天还没无预料的问题的新工作岗位的准备。
en:So with PISA, we try to change thisby measuring the knowledge and skillsof people directly.And we took a very special angle to this.We were less interested in whether students can simplyreproduce what they have learned in school,but we wanted to test whether they can extrapolatefrom what they knowand apply their knowledge in novel situations.Now, some people have criticized us for this.They say, you know, such a way of measuring outcomesis terribly unfair to people, because we test studentswith problems they haven&#39;t seen before.But if you take that logic, you know,you should consider life unfair, becausethe test of truth in life is not whether we can rememberwhat we learned in school,but whether we are prepared for change,whether we are prepared for jobs that haven&#39;t been created,to use technologies that haven&#39;t been invented,to solve problems we just can&#39;t anticipate today.
时间： 3:20
zh-cn:经过激烈的争议，我们测量的结果却很快成为公认的标准。在2009的最新评估中，我们测评了74个学校系统，这些被测国的经济总量占全球经济总量的87%。这个图展示了这些国家的（教育）表现。红色表示稍低于OECD的平均值。黄色代表一般般，绿色的国家做的很好。你可以看到，亚洲的上海，南韩，新加坡；欧洲的芬兰；和北美的加拿大都做的很好。从表中明显一个巨大的差距在于：在受教育程度方面，在15岁年龄阶层，上海的孩子比和智利孩子平均多受了3年半的教育,如果算上其它教育更落后的国家，这个差距将达到7个学年。现在的年青人对现代经济所做的准备也存在着巨大的差异。
en:And once hotly contested,our way of measuring outcomes has actually quickly become the standard.In our latest assessment in 2009,we measured 74 school systemsthat together cover 87 percent of the economy.This chart shows you the performance of countries.In red, sort of below OECD average.Yellow is so-so, and in green are the countries doing really well.You can see Shanghai, Korea, Singapore in Asia;Finland in Europe;Canada in North America doing really well.You can also see that there is a gap of almostthree and a half school years between15-year-olds in Shanghai and 15-year-olds in Chile,and the gap grows to seven school yearswhen you include the countries with really poor performance.There&#39;s a world of difference in the way in whichyoung people are prepared for today&#39;s economy.
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:我想在这讲一下我们评估的第二个重要依据。教育家们喜欢讨论公平。我们就用PISA来测试他们是如何做到教育公平，也就是如何确保学生无论其来自哪种不同的社会背景都有均等的受教育机会。我们看到在有些国家，学生的社会背景对其受教育机会的影响非常巨大。由于受教育机会的不均等。很多小孩子的潜能没有得到开发而被埋没了。在其他一些国家，学生的社会背景对其受教育的机会没有太大的影响。(在这张图中）)很多国家都想挤进右上象限里去，因为一象限代表着这些国家的教育业绩很好，学习机会分配均等。在教育落后地区，没有任何个人和国家能进入优良教育象限，这造成了社会教育的巨大不公平。这样我们就能辩论，我们是应该为了一国的教育成就而牺牲学生受教育的公平机会？还是我们要注重教育的公平性而接受平庸呢？事实上，看一看这张图上出现的国家的教育成就，可以看到很多国家实际上做到了优秀和平等的统一。事实上，从这个比较得到的最重要的教训之一就是你不必为了达到优秀而向平等妥协。这些国家已经走出了由为部分人提供优质教育到为所有人提供优质教育的发展之路，这是个很重要的教训。这也挑战了很多学校体系一贯主张的&quot;教育的功能就是要将人分为三六九等&quot;的思维模式.自从这些结果出现后，来自世界各地的决策者，教育家，研究人员都在试图搞清楚这些教育系统成功的背后是什么。
en:But I want to introduce a second important dimensioninto this picture.Educators like to talk about equity.With PISA, we wanted to measure how they actually deliver equity,in terms of ensuring that peoplefrom different social backgrounds have equal chances.And we see that in some countries, the impactof social background on learning outcomesis very, very strong.Opportunities are unequally distributed.A lot of potential of young children is wasted.We see in other countries that it matters much lessinto which social context you&#39;re born.We all want to be there, in the upper right quadrant,where performance is strong and learning opportunities are equally distributed.Nobody, and no country, can afford to be there,where performance is poorand there are large social disparities.And then we can debate, you know, is it betterto be there, where performance is strongat the price of large disparities?Or do we want to focus on equity and accept mediocrity?But actually, if you look at how countries come out on this picture,you see there are a lot of countries that actuallyare combining excellence with equity.In fact, one of the most important lessons from this comparisonis that you don&#39;t have to compromise equityto achieve excellence.These countries have moved on from providing excellencefor just some to providing excellence for all,a very important lesson.And that also challenges the paradigms of many school systemsthat believe they are mainly there to sort people.And ever since those results came out, policymakers,educators, researchers from around the worldhave tried to figure outwhat&#39;s behind the success of those systems.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:让我们先回顾一下关注实际开始了PISA的这些国家，我用彩色的泡泡来表示这些国家。我用不同的大小比例来表示这些国家花在学生身上的钱。如果教育投入的钱能够解释学生学习的质量，那照理在上面的那些国家的泡泡应该都很大才对，不是吗？但你看到的却不是。生均教育经费投入对一个国家教育质量的影响大约不足20%，例如，卢森堡是教育投入是最高的，但其教育效果并不太好。我们看到的是，两个经费投入相似的国家可以取得完全不同的成就。你也看到—我认为也是最鼓舞人的发现之一—我们居住的世界不是很一刀切地划分成富有和教育程度高的国家，与贫穷和教育程度很差的国家，这是个很重要的教训。
en:But let&#39;s step back for a momentand focus on the countries that actually started PISA,and I&#39;m giving them a colored bubble now.And I&#39;m making the size of the bubbleproportionalto the amount of money that countries spent on students.If money would tell you everythingabout the quality of learning outcomes,you would find all the large bubbles at the top, no?But that&#39;s not what you see.Spending per student only explains about,well, less than 20 percentof the performance variation among countries,and Luxembourg, for example, the most expensive system,doesn&#39;t do particularly well.What you see is that two countries with similar spendingachieve very different results.You also see — and I think that&#39;s one of the most encouraging findings —that we no longer live in a world that is neatly dividedbetween rich and well-educated countries,and poor and badly-educated ones,a very, very important lesson.
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:让我们看一些细节。这个红点表示生均教育经费投入与一国财富的关系。一种投放方法是提高老师工资，韩国在这方面投入大量资金来吸引好的优秀的人才加入教育行列。同时，韩国延长了学校时间，此举进一步拉高教育投入。最后，韩国要求他们的老师不但要教好书，还要做好个人的职业发展。他们在教师的职业发展与协作和其它很多方面投入资金。所有这些都得花钱。韩国怎么付得起呢？答案是，韩国学校实行大班额教学。从这根蓝棒可以看出，此举大大降低了办学费用。看下一个国家，卢森堡这个红点的位置和代表韩国的红点位置差不多，所以，卢森堡和韩国的生均教育经费是一样的。但你看，卢森堡的家长、老师甚至决策者们都喜欢小班教学。走进小课堂时很令人愉快。所以他们把钱花在那里了，从这根蓝棒可以看出，小班教学使办学经费大幅增加。但就算是卢森堡这样的国家，其教育经费的投入也只能是一次性的，而这种投入模式的代价是：老师的收入不太好。学生在校学习时间不长。基本上，老师除了教学没时间做别的。所以你看到两个国家花钱不同，实际上他们如何花钱的影响远远超过他们在教育上投入的金额。
en:Let&#39;s look at this in greater detail.The red dot shows youspending per student relative to a country&#39;s wealth.One way you can spend money is by paying teachers well,and you can see Korea investing a lotin attracting the best people into the teaching profession.And Korea also invests into long school days,which drives up costs further.Last but not least, Koreans want their teachersnot only to teach but also to develop.They invest in professional development and collaborationand many other things.All that costs money.How can Korea afford all of this?The answer is, students in Korea learn in large classes.This is the blue bar which is driving costs down.You go to the next country on the list, Luxembourg,and you can see the red dot is exactly where it is for Korea,so Luxembourg spends the same per student as Korea does.But, you know, parents and teachers and policymakersin Luxembourg all like small classes.You know, it&#39;s very pleasant to walk into a small class.So they have invested all their money into there,and the blue bar, class size, is driving costs up.But even Luxembourg can spend its money only once,and the price for this is thatteachers are not paid particularly well.Students don&#39;t have long hours of learning.And basically, teachers have little time to do anything else than teaching.So you can see two countries spent their money very differently,and actually how they spent their moneymatters a lot more than how much they invest in education.
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:我们来看看2000年。还记得吧？那是在iPod发明之前的一年。如果用其PISA的表现来看，当时各国的教育是这个样子的。这些泡泡当时还很小，不是吗？我们在教育方面的投入也少得多，只占不到35%。扪心自问，既然教育都变得如此昂贵了，它变得更好了吗？一个严酷的事实是，并没有很多国家取得相应的成就。但是有一些国家已经取得了可喜的改善。2000年我的祖国—-德国被划在较低的象限里，比平均表现还低，社会差距很大。别忘了，若只按拥有学位的人数来算，德国曾是教育强国之一。现在的结果却令人失望。测评结果也令人吃惊。几个月以来，教育而不是税务和其他的话题，成了德国公开辩论的热门话题这是史无前例的。教育成了公共辩论的中心话题。接着决策者开始有了回应。联邦政府大幅度提高教育投入。做了很多有利于有移民或不良社会背景学生的事情。更有意思的是，这不仅优化了现有政策，还改变了德国教育的一些信仰和规范。譬如，传统上，幼儿教育被视作家庭的事，很多时候当妇女把孩子送去幼儿园被视为疏忽职守。PISA改变了这场争论，促使德国把儿童早期教育纳入了公共政策的中心。传统上，德国教育在孩子10岁时，非常年幼的时候，就划分成从事知识职业的工作者和为知识工作者工作的两大群体，这基本上与社会经济分工一致，这个范例现在也在受挑战。很多的改变。
en:Let&#39;s go back to the year 2000.Remember, that was the year before the iPod was invented.This is how the world looked thenin terms of PISA performance.The first thing you can see is that the bubbles were a lot smaller, no?We spent a lot less on education,about 35 percent less on education.So you ask yourself, if education has become so much more expensive,has it become so much better?And the bitter truth really is that, you know,not in many countries.But there are some countries which have seenimpressive improvements.Germany, my own country, in the year 2000,featured in the lower quadrant,below average performance, large social disparities.And remember, Germany, we used to be one of those countriesthat comes out very well when you just count people who have degrees.Very disappointing results.People were stunned by the results.And for the very first time, the public debate in Germanywas dominated for months by education,not tax, not other kinds of issues, but educationwas the center of the public debate.And then policymakers began to respond to this.The federal government dramatically raised its investment in education.A lot was done to increase the life chances of studentswith an immigrant background or from social disadvantage.And what&#39;s really interesting is that this wasn&#39;t just aboutoptimizing existing policies,but data transformed some of the beliefs and paradigmsunderlying German education.For example, traditionally, the education of the very young childrenwas seen as the business of families, and you would have caseswhere women were seen as neglecting their family responsibilitieswhen they sent their children to kindergarten.PISA has transformed that debate,and pushed early childhood education right at the centerof public policy in Germany.Or traditionally, the German education divides childrenat the age of 10, very young children,between those deemed to pursue careers of knowledge workersand those who would end up working for the knowledge workers,and that mainly along socioeconomic lines,and that paradigm is being challenged now too.A lot of change.
时间：10:59
zh-cn:有个好消息是，九年后，你会看到教学质量和公平性的改进。人们已经接受了挑战并采取了一些措施。
en:And the good news is, nine years later,you can see improvements in quality and equity.People have taken up the challenge, done something about it.
时间：11:07
zh-cn:看这个范围的另一头韩国在2000年，韩国已经很好了，但韩国人担心只有一小部分学生达到了很优秀的水平。他们接受了挑战，在十年间，韩国能将阅读能力优秀学生的比例提高了一倍。如果你只是专注于最出色的学生，差距就会产生，这个泡泡稍微往右偏移，但还是有令人印象深刻的改进。
en:Or take Korea, at the other end of the spectrum.In the year 2000, Korea did already very well,but the Koreans were concerned that only a small shareof their students achieved the really high levels of excellence.They took up the challenge,and Korea was able to double the proportion of studentsachieving excellence in one decade in the field of reading.Well, if you only focus on your brightest students,you know what happens is disparities grow,and you can see this bubble moving slightly to the other direction,but still, an impressive improvement.
时间：11:40
zh-cn:波兰教育的主要革新在于大幅度减少学校间的差异，使很多表现不佳的学校得到重生，并在半年时间内就提高了教学业绩。其他一些国家也一样。葡萄牙是能够巩固其分散的学校系统，提高质量和改善公平性，另外，匈牙利也做到了。
en:A major overhaul of Poland&#39;s educationhelped to dramatically reduce between variability among schools,turn around many of the lowest-performing schools,and raise performance by over half a school year.And you can see other countries as well.Portugal was able to consolidate its fragmented school system,raise quality and improve equity,and so did Hungary.
时间：12:04
zh-cn:所以确实能看到，很多的改变。即使那些抱怨的人说那些相对有名次的国家PISA只是文化的产物，经济因素和社会的产物，以及社会一致化的产物，等等，这些人现在必须承认教育改良是可能。波兰并没有改变它的文化。没有改变它的经济，没有改变人口的组成。没有解雇老师。它改变了教育政策和实践。（而其教育成就）却非常引人注目。
en:So what you can actually see, there&#39;s been a lot of change.And even those people who complain and say thatthe relative standing of countrieson something like PISA is just an artifact of culture,of economic factors, of social issues,of homogeneity of societies, and so on,these people must now concede that education improvement is possible.You know, Poland hasn&#39;t changed its culture.It didn&#39;t change its economy. It didn&#39;t changethe compositions of its population.It didn&#39;t fire its teachers. It changed its education policiesand practice. Very impressive.
时间：12:39
zh-cn:所有这些给我们带来了新的命题：我们能从这些在绿色象限的国家学到什么？谁做到了真正的公平?谁取得了高水平的业绩和提高了成果？当然，问题是，在一个环境下有效的在别的地方能用做典范吗？很显然，你不能把一国的教育体系生搬硬套到别国去，但这些比较也确实帮我们找出了所有高效能的教育系统的共性因素。人人都同意教育很重要。人人都这样说。但问题是，你如何做到，“两害相权取其轻，两利相权取其重”呢？各国应如何支付他们的教师工资和其他高级技术工人的工资呢？你想让你的孩子成为老师而不是律师吗？媒体应该如何报道学校和老师呢？这些都是关键问题。而我们从PISA看到:在高性能的教育体系里，领袖们已经说服市民重视教育，重视个人前途，而不应该只着眼当前的消费。在这过程中有一些很有趣的事。说出来令人难以相信，在很多国家，最吸引人的地方不是购物中心而是学校。而事实确实如此。
en:And all that raises, of course, the question: What can we learnfrom those countries in the green quadrantwho have achieved high levels of equity,high levels of performance, and raised outcomes?And, of course, the question is, can what works in one contextprovide a model elsewhere?Of course, you can&#39;t copy and paste education systems wholesale,but these comparisons have identified a range of factorsthat high-performing systems share.Everybody agrees that education is important.Everybody says that.But the test of truth is, how do you weigh that priorityagainst other priorities?How do countries pay their teachersrelative to other highly skilled workers?Would you want your child to become a teacherrather than a lawyer?How do the media talk about schools and teachers?Those are the critical questions, and what we have learnedfrom PISA is that, in high-performing education systems,the leaders have convinced their citizens to make choicesthat value education, their future,more than consumption today.And you know what&#39;s interesting? You won&#39;t believe it,but there are countries in which the most attractive placeto be is not the shopping center but the school.Those things really exist.
时间：13:55
zh-cn:高度重视教育只是其中的一方面。另一方面，这是基于一种信念：所有的孩子都有能力成功。有些国家学生们很年幼时就被实施分层教学。学生们被分开，这反映了他们的信念：只有部分小子能达到世界一流的学业水准。但通常是有很强的社会不公有关系。如果你去亚洲的日本，或欧洲的芬兰，这些国家的父母和老师们期待每个学生都成功，你会看到这些都会在学生的行为上表现出来。当我们问学生在数学上什么算是成功北美的学生一般会告诉我们，就是天分啦。如果我生来就不是数学天才，我最好去学别的。10个中有9个日本学生会说这要看我的付出和努力，这些都反映了他们所在的教育系统的理念。
en:But placing a high value on educationis just part of the picture.The other part is the belief that all childrenare capable of success.You have some countries where studentsare segregated early in their ages.You know, students are divided up,reflecting the belief that only some childrencan achieve world-class standards.But usually that is linked to very strong social disparities.If you go to Japan in Asia, or Finland in Europe,parents and teachers in those countriesexpect every student to succeed,and you can see that actually mirrored in student behavior.When we asked students what countsfor success in mathematics,students in North America would typically tell us,you know, it&#39;s all about talent.If I&#39;m not born as a genius in math, I&#39;d better study something else.Nine out of 10 Japanese students saythat it depends on my own investment, on my own effort,and that tells you a lot about the system that is around them.
时间：15:01
zh-cn:过去，不同的学生受教方法相似。PISA中的业绩突出者用有因材施教的方法来接纳多元性。他们意识到普通的学生也有杰出的天分，他们把学习机会个性化。
en:In the past, different students were taught in similar ways.High performers on PISA embrace diversitywith differentiated pedagogical practices.They realize thatordinary students have extraordinary talents,and they personalize learning opportunities.
时间：15:21
zh-cn:高性能系统也普遍认同整个范围中的明确和有抱负的标准。学生们都知道什么重要。学生们都知道成功需要什么。
en:High-performing systems also shareclear and ambitious standards across the entire spectrum.Every student knows what matters.Every student knows what&#39;s required to be successful.
时间：15:33
zh-cn:没有一个地方教育系统的质量超过老师的质量。高性能的系统很小心地招聘和选择老师并培训他们。他们留意如何帮助那些在困境中挣扎的老师提高教学效率，和如何去核定老师的工资。他们提供一个老师们能团结工作的环境去构架好的做法。他们为老师提供各种途径促进教师的职业成长。在官僚的学校体系中，老师常常被孤零零留在教室里照本宣科因为教师们被很多的法规束缚着教与不教什么。高效能的系统很清楚什么样的表现是好的。他们设定雄心勃勃的标准，但他们能让老师们去想办法弄清楚，我今天需要给我的学生教什么。过去教育是传递知识和智慧的桥梁。而现在挑战在于让学生自己学习其所需的智慧。高效率的执行者已经从职业或责任控制的管理者转变成了专业的工作机构。就好像，你如何检测人们是否做了他们应该做的事他们鼓励老师们在教学中勇于创新。他们为老师提供其所需的发展机会去制定更有力的教学方式。以往的目标是标准化和服从。高效率的体系让老师和校长们富有独创性。以前，政策专注于结果，专注于条规。高效率的体系帮助老师和校长们放眼于他们人生中的下一个老师，下一个学校。
en:And nowhere does the quality of an education systemexceed the quality of its teachers.High-performing systems are very carefulin how they recruit and select their teachersand how they train them.They watch how they improve the performances of teachersin difficulties who are struggling,and how they structure teacher pay.They provide an environment also in which teachers work togetherto frame good practice.And they provide intelligent pathways for teachers to growin their careers.In bureaucratic school systems,teachers are often left alone in classroomswith a lot of prescription on what they should be teaching.High-performing systems are very clear what good performance is.They set very ambitious standards, but then they enabletheir teachers to figure out,what do I need to teach to my students today?The past was about delivered wisdom in education.Now the challenge is to enable user-generated wisdom.High performers have moved on from professionalor from administrative forms of accountability and control —sort of, how do you check whether people do what they&#39;re supposed to do in education —to professional forms of work organization.They enable their teachers to make innovations in pedagogy.They provide them with the kind of development they needto develop stronger pedagogical practices.The goal of the past was standardization and compliance.High-performing systems have made teachersand school principals inventive.In the past, the policy focus was on outcomes,on provision.The high-performing systems have helped teachersand school principals to look outwards to the next teacher,the next school around their lives.
时间：17:24
zh-cn:世界级系统的最令人印象深刻的结果是他们在整个系统中实现了高性能。你以看到芬兰在PISA中做的挺好，但芬兰给人留下深刻印象的是只有5%的学生的表现在这些学校当中有变化。每个学校都成功。成功的是系统性。怎么做到呢？他们给能产生最大不同的资源投资。他们吸引最强的校长放到最难的学校，最有才华的老师放进最有挑战的教室。
en:And the most impressive outcomes of world-class systemsis that they achieve high performance across the entire system.You&#39;ve seen Finland doing so well on PISA,but what makes Finland so impressiveis that only five percent of the performance variationamongst students lies between schools.Every school succeeds.This is where success is systemic.And how do they do that?They invest resources where they can make the most difference.They attract the strongest principals into the toughest schools,and the most talented teachersinto the most challenging classroom.
时间：17:59
zh-cn:最后，这些国家调节所有地区的公共政策他们使之持续连贯，确保始终如一地执行。
en:Last but not least, those countries align policiesacross all areas of public policy.They make them coherent over sustained periods of time,and they ensure that what they do is consistently implemented.
时间：18:12
zh-cn:知道了成功的系统怎么做的并没有告诉我们如何改进。也很清楚，这就是PISA国际比较的一些极限。也是其他形式的研究需要介入，也是为什么PISA不冒险介入告诉这些国家它们应该做什么。但PISA的长处在于告诉他们别人都做了些什么。PISA的例子显示数据比我们常用的通过运行教育系统行政管理财务补贴更有威力。
en:Now, knowing what successful systems are doingdoesn&#39;t yet tell us how to improve.That&#39;s also clear, and that&#39;s where some of the limitsof international comparisons of PISA are.That&#39;s where other forms of research need to kick in,and that&#39;s also why PISA doesn&#39;t venture intotelling countries what they should be doing.But its strength lies in telling themwhat everybody else has been doing.And the example of PISA shows that datacan be more powerful than administrative control of financial subsidythrough which we usually run education systems.
时间：18:44
zh-cn:有人会提出改变教育行政管理就像移动墓地。你不能靠在外面的人来帮助。（笑）PISA已经显示了什么在教育上是可能的。它帮助很多国家看到了改进是可行的。它排除了那些自满者的借口。它帮助一些国家设定了有意义的目标也就是被世界领袖们达到了的可测量的目标。如果我们能够帮助每个孩子，每个老师，每间学校，每个校长，每个家长看到改进是可能的，教育改进的空间是无限的，我们已经打下了基础为了更好的政策和更好的人生。
en:You know, some people argue thatchanging educational administrationis like moving graveyards.You just can&#39;t rely on the people out there to help you with this. (Laughter)But PISA has shown what&#39;s possible in education.It has helped countries to see that improvement is possible.It has taken away excuses from those who are complacent.And it has helped countries to set meaningful targetsin terms of measurable goals achieved by the world&#39;s leaders.If we can help every child, every teacher, every school,every principal, every parent see what improvement is possible,that only the sky is the limit to education improvement,we have laid the foundationsfor better policies and better lives.
时间：19:31
zh-cn:谢谢大家！
en:Thank you.
时间：19:33
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
