时间： 0:12
zh-cn:小时候，我住在利马；爷爷给我讲了一个关于-西班牙征服秘鲁的传奇故事。印加帝国的末代皇帝阿塔瓦尔帕，被抓住并处死。皮萨罗和征服者们变得富有起来，他们攻克秘鲁的传说和赞颂传到了西班牙，吸引了一批西班牙人来此淘金。他们去到镇子里，问印加人：“还有哪个文明没被攻克？还有哪里有黄金？”
en:As a boy in Lima,my grandfather told me a legendof the Spanish conquest of Peru.Atahualpa, emperor of the Inca,had been captured and killed.Pizarro and his conquistadorshad grown rich,and tales of their conquestand glory had reached Spainand was bringing new waves of Spaniards,hungry for gold and glory.They would go into towns and ask the Inca,&quot;Where&#39;s another civilizationwe can conquer? Where&#39;s more gold?&quot;
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:而出于报复，印加人就告诉他们：“去亚马逊，那里有挖不完的黄金”。事实上，那里有一个叫做‘帕依提提’——西班牙语叫El Dorado的城市是由黄金建成的”。
en:And the Inca, out of vengeance, told them,&quot;Go to the Amazon.You&#39;ll find all the gold you want there.In fact, there is a city called Paititi —El Dorado in Spanish —made entirely of gold.&quot;
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:于是这些西班牙人动身前往那片丛林，结果只有少数人带着故事回来了，他们带回了关于强大的萨满巫师的故事，关于拿着毒箭的武士的故事，关于那里的树太高以至遮住了阳光的故事，关于吃鸟的蜘蛛、能够吞下一整个人的大蛇，以及一条沸腾的河流的故事。
en:The Spanish set off into the jungle,but the few that returncome back with stories,stories of powerful shamans,of warriors with poisoned arrows,of trees so tall they blotted out the sun,spiders that ate birds,snakes that swallowed men wholeand a river that boiled.
时间： 1:24
zh-cn:所有这些都成为了我的童年记忆。多年过去了，我到了南方为理公会大学（SMU）攻读博士学位，当我试着了解秘鲁的地热能源潜力时，我想到了这个传说，于是想到了一个问题。传说中的那条沸腾的河流真的存在吗？
en:All this became a childhood memory.And years passed.I&#39;m working on my PhD at SMU,trying to understandPeru&#39;s geothermal energy potential,when I remember this legend,and I began asking that question.Could the boiling river exist?
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:我咨询了一些同僚，他们来自各大高校，政府部门，石油、天然气和矿业公司，所有人的答案都是“不”。这个答案是有道理的。因为沸腾的河流的确存在，但通常是在火山旁。只有一个强大的热源，才制造出如此大的地热现象。你看到的这些红点，它们代表火山，而在亚马逊是没有火山的，秘鲁的大部分地区也没有火山。所以得出的结论为：这片区域看不到沸腾的河流。
en:I asked colleagues from universities,the government,oil, gas and mining companies,and the answer was a unanimous no.And this makes sense.You see, boiling riversdo exist in the world,but they&#39;re generallyassociated with volcanoes.You need a powerful heat sourceto produce such a largegeothermal manifestation.And as you can see from the red dotshere, which are volcanoes,we don&#39;t have volcanoes in the Amazon,nor in most of Peru.So it follows: We should not expectto see a boiling river.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:在一次家庭聚餐上我又讲了这个故事，然后我的阿姨告诉我，“不，安德烈，我去过那，我在那条河里游过泳”。
en:Telling this same storyat a family dinner,my aunt tells me,&quot;But no, Andrés, I&#39;ve been there.I&#39;ve swum in that river.&quot;
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:然后我叔叔也加入了讨论，“真的，安德烈，她没有开玩笑，只有在大雨过后，才能在里面游泳，它被一位强大的萨满巫师保护着，而你的阿姨，跟他的妻子是朋友”。
en:Then my uncle jumps in.&quot;No, Andrés, she&#39;s not kidding.You see, you can only swim in itafter a very heavy rain,and it&#39;s protected by a powerful shaman.Your aunt, she&#39;s friends with his wife.&quot;
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:“什么？”
en:&quot;¿Cómo?&quot; [&quot;Huh?&quot;]
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:尽管我作为科学家，对此表示怀疑，还是在我的阿姨带领下，踏上了那片丛林，那里距最近的火山口有700公里，坦白说，我已经做好了见证那条传奇的“亚马逊暖流” 的心理准备了。
en:You know, despite allmy scientific skepticism,I found myself hiking into the jungle,guided by my aunt,over 700 kilometers awayfrom the nearest volcanic center,and well, honestly,mentally preparing myselfto behold the legendary&quot;warm stream of the Amazon.&quot;
时间： 3:13
zh-cn:但是，紧接着，我听到一些声响，随着我们逐步走进，一股低涌-变得越来越响彻。就像海浪不停的冲击一样，而当我们走近时，我看到烟雾和蒸汽从树林中冒出。不久，我看到了这个。
en:But then ...I heard something,a low surgethat got louder and louderas we came closer.It sounded like ocean wavesconstantly crashing,and as we got closer, I saw smoke, vapor,coming up through the trees.And then, I saw this.
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:我立马拿起了温度计，测量到这条河流的平均温度为86℃。虽然这并没有达到100℃的沸点，但也很接近了。这条高温河水流湍急。在这位萨满大师徒弟的带领下，我沿河而上，去往这条河最神圣的地点。奇妙的事情发生了，这条河的起点是冷流。而这个地方，是亚库马马的故乡，亚库马马是河之母，是创造冷热水的巨大的蛇灵。而在这里，我们找到了一处热泉，同受她保护的河口下的冷流混合在一起，将这些传说变为现实。
en:I immediately grabbed for my thermometer,and the average temperatures in the riverwere 86 degrees C.This is not quitethe 100-degree C boilingbut definitely close enough.The river flowed hot and fast.I followed it upriver and was led by,actually, the shaman&#39;s apprenticeto the most sacred site on the river.And this is what&#39;s bizarre —It starts off as a cold stream.And here, at this site,is the home of the Yacumama,mother of the waters,a giant serpent spiritwho births hot and cold water.And here we find a hot spring,mixing with cold stream waterunderneath her protective motherly jawsand thus bringing their legends to life.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:第二天早上，当我醒来的时候-
en:The next morning, I woke up and —
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:39
zh-cn:我说想喝杯茶。于是有人递给我一个马克杯，一个茶包，然后，指着那条河。让我惊讶的是，河水是如此的清澈，喝起来也很可口，这对于地热系统来说是有点异常的。
en:I asked for tea.I was handed a mug, a tea bagand, well, pointed towards the river.To my surprise, the water was cleanand had a pleasant taste,which is a little weirdfor geothermal systems.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:更神奇的一点是，本地人似乎一直都知道有这么个地方，而我也绝不是第一个发现此地的外来人。这些都是他们的家常便饭。他们饮用河里的水；享用这些蒸汽；用河水烹饪；清洁，甚至用这些河水来制药。
en:What was amazingis that the locals had alwaysknown about this place,and that I was by no meansthe first outsider to see it.It was just part of their everyday life.They drink its water.They take in its vapor.They cook with it,clean with it,even make their medicines with it.
时间： 5:20
zh-cn:我见到了萨满大师，似乎他也成了这条河和丛林的一部分。他询问我的来意，用心倾听。不久，我便感到压力减轻了—老实告诉你，我当时可吓坏了—他嘴角微微上扬，他笑了。
en:I met the shaman,and he seemed like an extensionof the river and his jungle.He asked for my intentionsand listened carefully.Then, to my tremendous relief —I was freaking out,to be honest with you —a smile began to snake across his face,and he just laughed.
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:46
zh-cn:我对这条河的研究得到了萨满大师的祝福，他只有一点要求，那便是待我取样并带回实验室分析后，不管我在世界的哪一个角落，我要把这些水倒回地上，萨满大师说，这样这些水便能回到河流里。
en:I had received the shaman&#39;s blessingto study the river,on the condition that after I takethe water samplesand analyze them in my lab,wherever I was in the world,that I pour the watersback into the groundso that, as the shaman said,the waters could find their way back home.
时间： 6:10
zh-cn:2011年的勘测后，我每年都会回去，我的勘测结果甚是喜人，有些时候也颇有些危险和挑战。我的故事甚至被刊登到了《国家地理》这本杂志上。我被困在了和一张纸一样大小的石头上，穿着凉鞋和运动短裤，置身于80℃的河水和接近沸点的温泉中。不仅如此，那还是在亚马逊雨林。那是倾盆大雨，什么也看不见。温差使得周围的一切看起来都是白色的。局势很紧张。
en:I&#39;ve been back every yearsince that first visit in 2011,and the fieldwork has been exhilarating,demanding and at times dangerous.One story was even featuredin National Geographic Magazine.I was trapped on a small rockabout the size of a sheet of paperin sandals and board shorts,in between an 80 degree C riverand a hot spring that, well,looked like this, close to boiling.And on top of that,it was Amazon rain forest.Pshh, pouring rain, couldn&#39;t see a thing.The temperature differentialmade it all white. It was a whiteout.Intense.
时间： 6:53
zh-cn:现在，经过多年的研究，我即将发表关于地球物理和化学的论文。今天站在TED的舞台上，我想和大家一起分享，这也是我首次揭露其中的一些发现。
en:Now, after years of work,I&#39;ll soon be submitting my geophysicaland geochemical studies for publication.And I&#39;d like to share, today,with all of you here, on the TED stage,for the first time,some of these discoveries.
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:首先，这并不是一个传说。意想不到吧！
en:Well, first off, it&#39;s not a legend.Surprise!
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:在我最初开始这项研究的时候，有关的卫星图像像素很低，几乎没什么用。那时就没什么高质量的地图。多亏了谷歌地球这个团队，现在我有了这个。不仅如此，这条河的本名Shanay-timpishka，&quot;由太阳烧开的河“说明我并不是第一个对这条河沸腾感到好奇的人，也说明了人类一直以来都尝试着去解释我们生活的世界。
en:When I first started the research,the satellite imagery was toolow-resolution to be meaningful.There were just no good maps.Thanks to the supportof the Google Earth team,I now have this.Not only that, the indigenous nameof the river, Shanay-timpishka,&quot;boiled with the heat of the sun,&quot;indicating that I&#39;m not the firstto wonder why the river boils,and showing that humanityhas always sought to explainthe world around us.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:为什么这条河会沸腾呢？
en:So why does the river boil?
时间： 7:54
zh-cn:（沸腾声）
en:(Bubbling sounds)
时间： 7:59
zh-cn:这些图像是我花了三年时间收集来的。
en:It actually took me three yearsto get that footage.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:地质断层滋长温泉。正如人类体内的血管和动脉里流动着热血一样，地球的裂缝和断层里也流淌着热水。那些在地球表面的”动脉“，就是地热表现：喷气孔，温泉，正是我们这里的沸腾河。
en:Fault-fed hot springs.As we have hot blood runningthrough our veins and arteries,so, too, the earth has hot waterrunning through its cracks and faults.Where these arteries come to the surface,these earth arteries,we&#39;ll get geothermal manifestations:fumaroles, hot springsand in our case, the boiling river.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:然而，真正难以置信的是这条河的规模之大。下次当你过马路的时候，不妨这样想想。这条河大部分流经地的宽度超过双车道的马路。而热水流经长度为6.24千米。真是叹为观止。有些热泉比TED的舞台还要打，而你看到的那个瀑布，其实有6米高—全部都接近沸点的河水。
en:What&#39;s truly incredible, though,is the scale of this place.Next time you cross the road,think about this.The river flows wider than a two-lane roadalong most of its path.It flows hot for 6.24 kilometers.Truly impressive.There are thermal poolslarger than this TED stage,and that waterfall that you see thereis six meters tall —and all with near-boiling water.
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:我们按照河水的温度制作地图，这项工作也是目前最为困难的部分。出来的结果真是了不起。抱歉，我是个地理科学迷这事儿暴露了。我们的结论展示出了一种趋势。你看，这条河的河口是冷水。接下来逐渐升温，再降温，再升，又降，再次升温，于是有了这些可爱的衰减曲线，直到最后奔腾进冰冷的河水中。
en:We mapped the temperaturesalong the river,and this was by far the mostdemanding part of the fieldwork.And the results were just awesome.Sorry — the geoscientistin me coming out.And it showed this amazing trend.You see, the river starts off cold.It then heats up, cools back down,heats up, cools back down,heats up again, and then hasthis beautiful decay curveuntil it smashes into this cold river.
时间： 9:29
zh-cn:我知道在座的有些并不是研究地热科学的，所以，用日常生活来举个例子：人人都爱咖啡。对吗？一杯普通的咖啡是54℃，特别烫的咖啡是60℃。所以用咖啡的例子来说，沸腾的河水看起来是这样的。这是一杯热咖啡。这是加热的咖啡，可以看到这里有一个尖尖的地方，那就是这条河要比特别烫的咖啡还要烫。这些是水的平均温度。这些都是在干燥的季节采集的样品，为了保证得到最纯粹的地热温度。
en:Now, I understand not all of youare geothermal scientists,so to put it in more everyday terms:Everyone loves coffee.Yes? Good.Your regular cup of coffee, 54 degrees C,an extra-hot one, well, 60.So, put in coffee shop terms,the boiling river plots like this.There you have your hot coffee.Here you have your extra-hot coffee,and you can seethat there&#39;s a bit point therewhere the river is still hotterthan even the extra-hot coffee.And these are average water temperatures.We took these in the dry season to ensurethe purest geothermal temperatures.
时间：10:07
zh-cn:但有一个神奇的数字并没有显示出来，那就是47℃，因为这是有害的临界点。我知道这一点是因为我自己有过这样的经历。超过47℃之后，没有人会想站在那里。你得格外小心。因为这可能是致命的。
en:But there&#39;s a magic number herethat&#39;s not being shown,and that number is 47 degrees C,because that&#39;s where things start to hurt,and I know this from verypersonal experience.Above that temperature,you don&#39;t want to get in that water.You need to be careful.It can be deadly.
时间：10:27
zh-cn:我看到各种各样的动物掉入河里，让我感到惊讶的是，整个过程几乎都雷同的。当它们掉进河里时，第一个受到伤害的便是眼睛。眼睛显然不用煮多久，便成了奶白色。河流把它们卷走。虽然它们试着游上岸，但是他们正在被由外到内烹饪着，因为温度实在太高了。于是，它们渐渐地失去了力气，最后热水冲进了嘴里，从内外外烹饪的过程开始了。
en:I&#39;ve seen all sorts of animals fall in,and what&#39;s shocking to me,is the process is pretty much the same.So they fall in and the first thingto go are the eyes.Eyes, apparently, cook very quickly.They turn this milky-white color.The stream is carrying them.They&#39;re trying to swim out,but their meat is cooking on the bonebecause it&#39;s so hot.So they&#39;re losing power, losing power,until finally they get to a pointwhere hot water goes into their mouthsand they cook from the inside out.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:59
zh-cn:有点让人难过，不是吗？天呐。让它们在腌制一会儿。另一个神奇之处便是温度。这些河的温度和我所见过的火山差不多，甚至类似于黄石的超级火山。
en:A bit sadistic, aren&#39;t we?Jeez.Leave them marinating for a little longer.What&#39;s, again, amazingare these temperatures.They&#39;re similar to things that I&#39;ve seenon volcanoes all over the worldand even super-volcanoes like Yellowstone.
时间：11:17
zh-cn:但有意思的是：根据数据，这条沸腾河和火山并不是共存关系。这和磁场或火山都没关系，再强调一次，最近的火山离这里也有700公里远。
en:But here&#39;s the thing:the data is showingthat the boiling river existsindependent of volcanism.It&#39;s neither magmaticor volcanic in origin,and again, over 700 kilometers awayfrom the nearest volcanic center.
时间：11:41
zh-cn:这样一条沸腾的河流是怎么形成的呢？多年来，我询问了许多地热专家和火山研究者们，至今也没能找到另外一个非火山的地热系统，有如此大的规模。这是独一无二的。在全球范围内来说都是特别的。但，它到底是怎么运作的呢？这些热量从哪里来的 ？人们还要做许多的研究才能更好的控制这个问题并理解这种系统，但从目前我们获得的数据看，似乎是由大型热泉系统导致的。
en:How can a boiling river exist like this?I&#39;ve asked geothermal expertsand volcanologists for years,and I&#39;m still unable to find anothernon-volcanic geothermal systemof this magnitude.It&#39;s unique.It&#39;s special on a global scale.So, still — how does it work?Where do we get this heat?There&#39;s still more research to be doneto better constrain the problemand better understand the system,but from what the data is telling us now,it looks to be the resultof a large hydrothermal system.
时间：12:24
zh-cn:概括起来便是：越接近地球核心，温度越高。我们称此为地热梯度。这些水可能是遥远的安第斯山脉冰川融水，逐渐渗透入地球核心，然后以沸腾河的形式流出，在受到地热梯度的加热之后，这一切都归功于这种独特的地质特征。
en:Basically, it works like this:So, the deeper you gointo the earth, the hotter it gets.We refer to thisas the geothermal gradient.The waters could be comingfrom as far away as glaciers in the Andes,then seeping down deep into the earthand coming out to form the boiling riverafter getting heated upfrom the geothermal gradient,all due to this unique geologic setting.
时间：12:49
zh-cn:目前，我们发现这条河里以及附近，我同几位来自国家地理的同事一起，来自《国家地理》的威尔士博士，来自UC Davis的埃森博士—我们对生活在河里以及周边的生物-进行了基因排序，并且找到了新的生命形式，生活在沸腾河里的独特生物。
en:Now, we foundthat in and around the river —this is working with colleaguesfrom National Geographic,Dr. Spencer Wells,and Dr. Jon Eisen from UC Davis —we genetically sequencedthe extremophile lifeformsliving in and around the river,and have found new lifeforms,unique species livingin the boiling river.
时间：13:11
zh-cn:但，尽管有这些研究，这些发现和传说，仍有一个问题萦绕人心：沸腾河的存在有重要意义吗？那片笼罩丛林的静止的云的存在有什么意义呢？再者，童年时代听到的传说又有什么重要性呢？
en:But again, despite all of these studies,all of these discoveries and the legends,a question remains:What is the significanceof the boiling river?What is the significanceof this stationary cloudthat always hoversover this patch of jungle?And what is the significanceof a detail in a childhood legend?
时间：13:42
zh-cn:对萨满大师和那里的居民来说，这是一个神圣的地方。对我来说，作为一名地球学家，这是独特的地热现象。但对于非法伐木和畜牧农场主来说，这只不过是另一个可以开采的地方而已。而对于秘鲁政府来说，这只不过是另一个未受保护的地方等待被开发而已。
en:To the shaman and his community,it&#39;s a sacred site.To me, as a geoscientist,it&#39;s a unique geothermal phenomenon.But to the illegal loggersand cattle farmers,it&#39;s just another resource to exploit.And to the Peruvian government,it&#39;s just another stretchof unprotected land ready for development.
时间：14:13
zh-cn:我的目标是确保不管是谁掌管这片土地，他们都能明白这条沸腾河的独特性和重要性。因为这才是问题所在，是重要意义之一。而结论是，重要与否是由我们来定义的。我们。人类掌握着这项权利。是我们来界定什么是神圣的，什么是微不足道的。而在这个时代，事物看起来似乎都在地图上绘画出来，测量过并研究过，在这个信息时代，我要提醒大家的是新发现并不是在一片虚渺荒芜的黑暗中发现的，而是在堆积如山的数据白噪点中发现的。
en:My goal is to ensurethat whoever controls this landunderstands the boiling river&#39;suniqueness and significance.Because that&#39;s the question,one of significance.And the thing there is,we define significance.It&#39;s us. We have that power.We are the ones who draw that linebetween the sacred and the trivial.And in this age,where everything seems mapped,measured and studied,in this age of information,I remind you all that discoveriesare not just madein the black void of the unknownbut in the white noiseof overwhelming data.
时间：15:08
zh-cn:还有许多等待人们去探索。我们的世界是如此的奇妙。让我们走出去。带着好奇心。因为我们生活的这个世界仍有萨满大师为丛林精灵吟唱，有会沸腾的河流，有传说成为现实。
en:There remains so much to explore.We live in an incredible world.So go out.Be curious.Because we do live in a worldwhere shamans still singto the spirits of the jungle,where rivers do boiland where legends do come to life.
时间：15:38
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：15:39
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
