时间： 0:12
zh-cn:全世界有390万失明的人他们中的80%生活在低收入国家，例如肯尼亚，他们中的绝大多数本不该被失明困扰。他们因疾病导致失明而这些疾病是完全可以治愈的或者是可以提前预防的。
en:There are 39 million people in the worldwho are blind.Eighty percent of themare living in low-income countries such as Kenya,and the absolute majoritydo not need to be blind.They are blind from diseasesthat are either completely curable or preventable.
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:了解到这样的状况，我和我年轻的家庭，搬到肯尼亚。我们配置了仪器，资金，车辆，我们训练了一个团队。我们建立了一百余家诊所，遍布整个东非大裂谷，试图去理解一个问题：是什么导致人们失明，要怎样化解这样的困境？
en:Knowing this, with my young family,we moved to Kenya.We secured equipment,funds, vehicles, we trained a team,we set up a hundred clinics throughoutthe Great Rift Valleyto try and understand a single question:why are people going blind,and what can we do?
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:这无疑是个巨大的挑战。当我们设定好要前往的地区时，我们搭建好高科技的仪器，很难找到电源。需要使用汽油发电机供电。于是我想到：应该会有更加简便的方式，因为那些最急迫需要接受眼科检查的患者也正是最难以获取诊疗的人。
en:The challenges were great.When we got to where we were going,we set up our high-tech equipment.Power was rarely available.We&#39;d have to run our equipmentfrom petrol power generators.And then something occurred to me:There has to be an easier way,because it&#39;s the patients who are the most in needof access to eye carewho are the least likely to get it.
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:越来越多生活在肯尼亚和撒哈拉沙漠以南非洲地区的人们使用手机的人数甚至多于能够接收到清洁水源的。我想，我们能不能套用移动通信技术的力量用一种新方法来进行眼科检查？因此我们开发了一个应用“Peek”一个智慧型手机[系统]能够搭建医务工作者社群让他们能够在任何地方为人们提供眼科检查服务。我们用智慧型手机应用程序和硬件来代替那些笨重，昂贵又不易维护的传统医院的仪器设备。这使得工作人员能够跨越语言，年纪的障碍为任何人提供眼科检查。这段影片展示了一个三个月大的婴儿通过应用程序和眼动仪接受精准的视力检测。
en:More people in Kenya,and in sub-Saharan Africa,have access to a mobile phonethan they do clean running water.So we said, could we harnessthe power of mobile technologyto deliver eye care in a new way?And so we developed Peek,a smartphone [system] that enablescommunity healthcare workersand empowers them to deliver eye care everywhere.We set about replacingtraditional hospital equipment,which is bulky, expensive and fragile,with smartphone apps and hardwarethat make it possible to test anyonein any language and of any age.Here we have a demonstrationof a three-month-old having their visionaccurately tested using an app and an eye tracker.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:很多实验都在进行着在社区，在学校，从实地考察中得到的经验教训，让我们意识到，用非医学专用术语分享诊疗数据是极其重要的，因为这样人们就能了解到我们在检查些什么，这和他们有什么关系。因此，举例来说，使用我们的“视力身份识别”程序，在检测到你的视力之后，我们展示给照护者和老师那个人眼中的世界是怎样的，这样他们就能告诉他们并帮助他们。
en:We&#39;ve got many trials going onin the community and in schools,and through the lessons thatwe&#39;ve learned in the field,we&#39;ve realized it&#39;s extremely importantto share the data in non-medical jargonso that people understandwhat we&#39;re examining and what that means to them.So here, for example,we use our sight sim application,once your vision has been measured,to show carers and teacherswhat the visual world is like for that person,so they can empathize with them and help them.
时间： 2:30
zh-cn:当我们发现某人有低视力的问题，下一个大的挑战就是找出病因，为了能找到病因点，我们需要检查眼睛内部。传统上，这需要昂贵的设备来检查视网膜。视网膜是眼内一个单独的区域包含巨大数量的身体信息和眼睛的健康状况。我们开发了通过3D打印制作的低成本的硬件，制作所需的费用少于5美元，这个硬件能够直接连接到智慧型手机，使得手机拥有能够看到眼睛内部的仪器画面质量很高。最棒的部分在于，任何人都能轻松操作它。我们的实验覆盖了超过2500人，连接了这个硬件的手机和比它昂贵数倍，并且难以运输的检测机质量相近。
en:Once we&#39;ve discovered somebody has low vision,the next big challenge is to work out why,and to be able to do that,we need to have access to the inside of the eye.Traditionally, this requires expensive equipmentto examine an area called the retina.The retina is the single part of the eye that hashuge amounts of information about the bodyand its health.We&#39;ve developed 3D-printed,low-cost hardwarethat comes in at less than five dollars to produce,which can then be clipped onto a smartphoneand makes it possible to get viewsof the back of the eyeof a very high quality.And the beauty is, anybody can do it.In our trials on over two and half thousand people,the smartphone with the add-on clipis comparable to a camerathat is hugely more expensiveand hugely more difficult to transport.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:当我们刚搬到肯尼亚的时候，我们带着价值15万美元的设备，15人组成的团队，来为这里的居民提供卫生保健。现在，我们只需要一个人一辆自行车和一个智慧型手机。这一切仅需500美元。供电的问题也得到了解决利用太阳能充电我们的医务工作者携带具有吸收太阳能功能的帆布背包，这个包能够为手机充电，提供备用电源。这使得我们能够走近病人为他们提供治疗，而不是坐在那里等待着那些可能永远也不会来寻求治疗的病人。我们走进他们的家庭我们为他们提供全面的，高科技的精确检查，提供这项服务的工作人员仅需短期少量训练即可。我们可以连线全球各地的专家，为居住在乡村，交通不便甚至公路都不可到达的地区，将专家送到他们家里，让医生们能够做出诊断并提供治疗计划。
en:When we first moved to Kenya,we went with 150,000 dollars of equipment,a team of 15 people,and that was what wasneeded to deliver health care.Now, all that&#39;s neededis a single personon a bike with a smartphone.And it costs just 500 dollars.The issue of power supplyis overcome by harnessing the power of solar.Our healthcare workers travelwith a solar-powered rucksackwhich keeps the phone charged and backed up.Now we go to the patientrather than waiting for the patient never to come.We go to them in their homesand we give them the most comprehensive,high-tech, accurate examination,which can be delivered byanyone with minimal training.We can link global expertswith people in the most rural,difficult-to-reach placesthat are beyond the end of the road,effectively putting those experts in their homes,allowing us to make diagnosesand make plans for treatment.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:项目经理，医院主管，可以通过搜索我们的界面，根据不同参数样本选择感兴趣的病例。在我居住的那库鲁，我们可以搜索到不同状况的病患。这些病患是因可治愈的白内障失明。每个红色的大头针表示某个失明的患者，他们的失明是可治愈的，他们的位置也很清楚地显示在这里。我们可以通过文字信息系统来告知我们即将前往并安排治疗。
en:Project managers, hospital directors,are able to search on our interfaceby any parameter they may be interested in.Here in Nakuru, where I&#39;ve been living,we can search for peopleby whatever condition.Here are people who are blindfrom a curable condition cataract.Each red pin depicts somebodywho is blind from a disease that is curableand treatable, and they&#39;re locatable.We can use bulk text messaging servicesto explain that we&#39;re coming to arrange a treatment.
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:此外，我们发现并非由我们为这个社群搭建而是跟社群共同搭建的东西。那些蓝色大头针所指的位置标志着社群中的长者，或者是当地领袖那些能够联系到附近居民的人，这些长者确保我们能够找到病患安排治疗。
en:What&#39;s more, we&#39;ve learned that this is somethingthat we haven&#39;t built just for the communitybut with the community.Those blue pins that drop representelders, or local leaders,that are connected to those peoplewho can ensure that we can find themand arrange treatment.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:像旺加里女士，失明10年了，她没看到过她的孙子们，花费不超过40美元，我们恢复了她的实力。这是必须做到的。即使统计数据显示百万分之一的人才会失明，但对于每个人来说，失明就是失明了。但现在，他们与得到诊治之间只有一个短信的距离。
en:So for patients like Mama Wangari,who have been blind for over 10 yearsand never seen her grandchildren,for less than 40 dollars, we can restore her eyesight.This is something that has to happen.It&#39;s only in statisticsthat people go blind by the millions.The reality is everyone goes blind on their own.But now, they might just bea text message away from help.
时间： 5:29
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:即便现场演示总是效果不佳，我们还是要现场展示给大家。
en:And now because live demos are always a bad idea,we&#39;re going to try a live demo.
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:41
zh-cn:我们正在使用“Peek Vision”应用程序。好了，我们现在看到的是，这是萨曼的视神经，这是她大脑内部的直接延伸，事实上正在看她的大脑内部。我们可以看到整个视网膜。这使得检测眼部疾病，以及身体疾病成为可能不通过检查眼睛是无法做到的，这个嵌入式的硬件制作成本仅为几美元，人们能够治愈失明，这对于人类来说是很重要的。我们研究出了治疗方法却无法将治疗提供给患者。但现在，我们做到了。
en:So here we have the Peek Vision app.Okay, and what we&#39;re looking at here,this is Sam&#39;s optic nerve,which is a direct extension of her brain,so I&#39;m actually looking at her brain as we look there.We can see all parts of the retina.It makes it possible to pick up diseasesof the eye and of the bodythat would not be possible without access to the eye,and that clip-on device can be manufacturedfor just a few dollars,and people can be cured of blindness,and I think it says a lot about us as a human raceif we&#39;ve developed cures and we don&#39;t deliver them.But now we can.
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:25
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
