时间： 0:11
zh-cn:如何观察那些你看不见的东西？对于有兴趣寻找和研究黑洞的人来说，这是个根本问题。因为黑洞的引力极为强大，任何物体包括光线，都不能逃脱。所以你不能直接看到它。
en:How do you observe something you can&#39;t see?This is the basic question of somebody who&#39;s interestedin finding and studying black holes.Because black holes are objectswhose pull of gravity is so intensethat nothing can escape it, not even light,so you can&#39;t see it directly.
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:我今天要讲的黑洞是关于一种特别的黑洞。我的兴趣在于是否存在一个特别巨大，我们称之为“超大质量黑洞”的黑洞存在银河系中心。感兴趣的原因是这将给我们一个机会去证明是否这些奇特的物体是否真的存在。其次，这给我们一个机会去了解这些特大质量黑洞是如何与他们的环境进行互动，以及它们是如何影响到所处宇宙的形成和演化
en:So, my story today about black holesis about one particular black hole.I&#39;m interested in finding whether or notthere is a really massive, what we like to call&quot;supermassive&quot; black hole at the center of our galaxy.And the reason this is interesting is thatit gives us an opportunity to provewhether or not these exotic objects really exist.And second, it gives us the opportunityto understand how these supermassive black holesinteract with their environment,and to understand how they affect the formation and evolutionof the galaxies which they reside in.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:言归正传，首先，我们必须理解黑洞是什么，这样我们才能理解黑洞存在的证据。那么，黑洞是什么？从很多方面来说，黑洞是个简单到不可思议的物体，它只有三个特征可以测量：质量角动量和电荷。而我将只讨论质量。从这个意义上来说，它是非常简单的物体。但是，换个角度，它又是极其复杂的，以至于我们需要相对来说比较奇特的物理学来描述，在某种程度上还标识着我们对于宇宙的的物理认知的崩溃。（）
en:So, to begin with,we need to understand what a black hole isso we can understand the proof of a black hole.So, what is a black hole?Well, in many ways a black hole is an incredibly simple object,because there are only three characteristics that you can describe:the mass,the spin, and the charge.And I&#39;m going to only talk about the mass.So, in that sense, it&#39;s a very simple object.But in another sense, it&#39;s an incredibly complicated objectthat we need relatively exotic physics to describe,and in some sense represents the breakdown of our physical understandingof the universe.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:如今，为了让你了解黑洞了解黑洞存在的证据，是把它看作一个质量为零的物体尽管我将和你们谈谈关于超质量的物体而对于这个物体，我将在后面进行阐述它没有大小。这有点棘手。
en:But today, the way I want you to understand a black hole,for the proof of a black hole,is to think of it as an objectwhose mass is confined to zero volume.So, despite the fact that I&#39;m going to talk to you aboutan object that&#39;s supermassive,and I&#39;m going to get to what that really means in a moment,it has no finite size.So, this is a little tricky.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:但幸运的是你可以看到有限的大小，这被称为史瓦西半径它命名于史瓦西他发现了为什么这个半径是如此重要这是一个虚拟的半径，而不是真实的；黑洞没有大小那么，为什么这很重要呢？它重要是因为它告诉我们任何物体都可以成为黑洞这意味着你的邻居，你的手机，还有礼堂都能成为黑洞如果你能弄明白如何把它压缩至史瓦西半径大小。
en:But fortunately there is a finite size that you can see,and that&#39;s known as the Schwarzschild radius.And that&#39;s named after the guy who recognizedwhy it was such an important radius.This is a virtual radius, not reality; the black hole has no size.So why is it so important?It&#39;s important because it tells usthat any object can become a black hole.That means you, your neighbor, your cellphone,the auditorium can become a black holeif you can figure out how to compress it downto the size of the Schwarzschild radius.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:在这一点上，会发生什么？在这一点上，引力获胜。引力胜过其他所有已知力量物体被迫继续坍塌成为一个奇点。这就是黑洞。如果把地球压缩至一块方糖大小，地球就会成为一个黑洞因为方糖的大小是它的史瓦西半径。
en:At that point, what&#39;s going to happen?At that point gravity wins.Gravity wins over all other known forces.And the object is forced to continue to collapseto an infinitely small object.And then it&#39;s a black hole.So, if I were to compress the Earth down to the size of a sugar cube,it would become a black hole,because the size of a sugar cube is its Schwarzschild radius.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:现在，关键是要弄清楚什么是史瓦西半径。事实证明，这很容易算出来它只依赖于物体的质量。更大的物体有更大的是史瓦西半径。更小的物体有更小的史瓦西半径。因此，如果我把太阳压缩至英国牛津大学的大小，太阳会成为一个黑洞。
en:Now, the key here is to figure out what that Schwarzschild radius is.And it turns out that it&#39;s actually pretty simple to figure out.It depends only on the mass of the object.Bigger objects have bigger Schwarzschild radii.Smaller objects have smaller Schwarzschild radii.So, if I were to take the sunand compress it down to the scale of the University of Oxford,it would become a black hole.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:现在，我们知道了什么是史瓦希半径。它实际上是一个相当有用的概念，因为它不仅告诉我们黑洞何时形成，同时还带给我们黑洞存在证据的关键要素。我只需要两件东西。我需要了解物体的质量我自称是一个黑洞，以及其史瓦西半径。由于质量决定史瓦西半径，实际上只有一件事我需要知道。
en:So, now we know what a Schwarzschild radius is.And it&#39;s actually quite a useful concept,because it tells us not onlywhen a black hole will form,but it also gives us the key elements for the proof of a black hole.I only need two things.I need to understand the mass of the objectI&#39;m claiming is a black hole,and what its Schwarzschild radius is.And since the mass determines the Schwarzschild radius,there is actually only one thing I really need to know.
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:因此，我的工作是说服你那有一个黑洞，表明有一些物体仅限于其史瓦西半径·而你要做的是对此表示怀疑。好了，我要谈的不是常规黑洞；我要谈论的是超大质量黑洞。
en:So, my job in convincing youthat there is a black holeis to show that there is some objectthat&#39;s confined to within its Schwarzschild radius.And your job today is to be skeptical.Okay, so, I&#39;m going to talk about no ordinary black hole;I&#39;m going to talk about supermassive black holes.
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:因此，我要说常规黑洞是什么好像有这样一个可以作为常规黑洞的东西。一个常规黑洞可以被看作是大质量恒星生命的晚期。因此，当一个恒星消亡而这个恒星的质量远大于太阳它将以爆炸结束生命我们将会看到留下的超新星遗骸在超新星遗骸的内部形成一个小型黑洞质量大概是太阳的3倍。从天文学的角度来看这是一个非常小的黑洞
en:So, I wanted to say a few words about what an ordinary black hole is,as if there could be such a thing as an ordinary black hole.An ordinary black hole is thought to be the end stateof a really massive star&#39;s life.So, if a star starts its life offwith much more mass than the mass of the Sun,it&#39;s going to end its life by explodingand leaving behind these beautiful supernova remnants that we see here.And inside that supernova remnantis going to be a little black holethat has a mass roughly three times the mass of the Sun.On an astronomical scalethat&#39;s a very small black hole.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:现在，我想谈谈超大质量黑洞。超大质量黑洞被认为位于星系中心。这幅美丽的图片是哈勃太空望远镜拍摄的展示了星系的所有形状和大小。有大的，有小的。几乎图片上的每一个物体都是一个星系。有一个非常漂亮的螺旋臂在左上角。有100亿颗恒星在那个星系中，仅仅给你一种规模感。我们从一个典型的星系中看到的所有光线，是我们在这儿看到的星系中的一种，来自恒星的光线。我们看见星系是因为恒星的光。
en:Now, what I want to talk about are the supermassive black holes.And the supermassive black holes are thought to reside at the center of galaxies.And this beautiful picture taken with the Hubble Space Telescopeshows you that galaxies come in all shapes and sizes.There are big ones. There are little ones.Almost every object in that picture there is a galaxy.And there is a very nice spiral up in the upper left.And there are a hundred billion stars in that galaxy,just to give you a sense of scale.And all the light that we see from a typical galaxy,which is the kind of galaxies that we&#39;re seeing here,comes from the light from the stars.So, we see the galaxy because of the star light.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:有一些比较奇特的星系我喜欢称这些星系为女主角，因为它们特别愿意展示自己我们称之为活跃星系核心。我们之所以这样称呼是因为它们的核心，或者它们的中心，非常活跃。在中心位置，大部分星光是从那发出的。然而，事实上我们看到的是无法用星光来解释的光它比星光更有活力。事实上，下面的例子中跟我们现在看的这些有些相似。也是从中心喷射出。如果你仅仅认为星系是由恒星组成的那这股能量的来源就很难解释了。
en:Now, there are a few relatively exotic galaxies.I like to call these the prima donna of the galaxy world,because they are kind of show offs.And we call them active galactic nuclei.And we call them that because their nucleus,or their center, are very active.So, at the center there, that&#39;s actually wheremost of the starlight comes out from.And yet, what we actually see is lightthat can&#39;t be explained by the starlight.It&#39;s way more energetic.In fact, in a few examples it&#39;s like the ones that we&#39;re seeing here.There are also jets emanating out from the center.Again, a source of energy that&#39;s very difficult to explainif you just think that galaxies are composed of stars.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:人们认为也许有超大质量黑洞所以物质被吸引过去。你不能看见黑洞本身，但是你能将黑洞的引力转换为我们能见的光。因此，有一种想法就是也许超大质量黑洞存在于星系的中心。但这仅是一种间接论据。
en:So, what people have thought is that perhapsthere are supermassive black holeswhich matter is falling on to.So, you can&#39;t see the black hole itself,but you can convert the gravitational energy of the black holeinto the light we see.So, there is the thought that maybe supermassive black holesexist at the center of galaxies.But it&#39;s a kind of indirect argument.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:尽管如此，这却带来了一种概念也许不仅是这些主角有超大质量黑洞而是所有的星系中心都有可能藏匿超大质量黑洞如果是这种情况——这是一个常规星系的例子；我们看到的是星光。如果有超大质量黑洞，我们需要假设的是它是一个正在节食的黑洞。因为这是一种我们所见到的压制现象在活跃星系的核心
en:Nonetheless, it&#39;s given rise to the notionthat maybe it&#39;s not just these prima donnasthat have these supermassive black holes,but rather all galaxies might harbor thesesupermassive black holes at their centers.And if that&#39;s the case — and this is an example of a normal galaxy;what we see is the star light.And if there is a supermassive black hole,what we need to assume is that it&#39;s a black hole on a diet.Because that is the way to suppress the energetic phenomena that we seein active galactic nuclei.
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:如果我们要在星系中心找寻这些隐藏的黑洞，最好的地方就是我们所在的星系，银河系。这是一张银河系中心的大范围图片我们看到的是线状的恒星系。因为我们所在的星系是一个扁平的，盘状结构的星系。而且我们居住在中央，因此当我们看向中心，我们把这个平面看成是星系的平面，或者把这条线看成是星系的平面
en:If we&#39;re going to look for these stealth black holesat the center of galaxies,the best place to look is in our own galaxy, our Milky Way.And this is a wide field picturetaken of the center of the Milky Way.And what we see is a line of stars.And that is because we live in a galaxy which hasa flattened, disk-like structure.And we live in the middle of it, so when we look towards the center,we see this plane which defines the plane of the galaxy,or line that defines the plane of the galaxy.
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:研究我们自己的星系的优势是在我们接触过的星系中心的实体中这是距离我们最近的星系我们的邻居星系距离我们则足有100倍的距离因此，对我们自身所在星系的研究可以做到比其他任何一个星体都更加透彻就像我们马上就要谈到的观察细节的能力对于我们这次实验至关重要
en:Now, the advantage of studying our own galaxyis it&#39;s simply the closest example of the center of a galaxythat we&#39;re ever going to have, because the next closest galaxyis 100 times further away.So, we can see far more detail in our galaxythan anyplace else.And as you&#39;ll see in a moment, the ability to see detailis key to this experiment.
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:这样一来宇航员如何才能证明一个相对小的空间内存在很大的质量呢这正是我今天想要向大家展示的我们将应用的工具就是观测行星环绕黑洞的轨道行星环绕的黑洞的轨道与行星环绕太阳类似是重心牵引力使这些星体按照轨道运行如果没有大质量的物体存在，这些星体都将四散而出或者说至少运动的速率对大幅下降这是因为，对它们如何运动起到决定性作用的是它的轨道内部存在多少的物质
en:So, how do astronomers prove that there is a lot of massinside a small volume?Which is the job that I have to show you today.And the tool that we use is to watch the waystars orbit the black hole.Stars will orbit the black holein the very same way that planets orbit the sun.It&#39;s the gravitational pullthat makes these things orbit.If there were no massive objects these things would go flying off,or at least go at a much slower ratebecause all that determines how they go aroundis how much mass is inside its orbit.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:我们必须要清楚这一点，因为我的工作就是证明一个小的空间内也存在大量的物质因此，如果可以计算出它的运行速度，我便可以推断出质量更进一 步，如果可以知道轨道的范围，我们就可以计算出其半径这就是我希望可以尽可能选择接近星系中心星体的原因只有这样，我才能在尽可能小的空间内证实物质的存在也就说明，我需要观测大量的细节数据这就是我们为何采用世界上最大的望远镜来做这个实验的原因
en:So, this is great, because remember my job is to showthere is a lot of mass inside a small volume.So, if I know how fast it goes around, I know the mass.And if I know the scale of the orbit I know the radius.So, I want to see the starsthat are as close to the center of the galaxy as possible.Because I want to show there is a mass inside as small a region as possible.So, this means that I want to see a lot of detail.And that&#39;s the reason that for this experiment we&#39;ve usedthe world&#39;s largest telescope.
时间： 8:23
zh-cn:这是keck天文台，它拥有2台镜头有10米长的望远镜差不多是一个网球场直径的长度这一点很赞因为大型望远镜总是承诺望远镜越大我们能观察到越小的细节。然而，我们却发现这些或现有的所有望远镜都与预期的表现有所差距这是因为大气环境地球大气层对我们人类至关重要它保证了生命的存在但是对天文学家来说，它却是相对有挑战性的，因为他们需要透过大气层来观测外部的世界
en:This is the Keck observatory. It hosts two telescopeswith a mirror 10 meters, which is roughlythe diameter of a tennis court.Now, this is wonderful,because the campaign promiseof large telescopes is that is that the bigger the telescope,the smaller the detail that we can see.But it turns out these telescopes, or any telescope on the groundhas had a little bit of a challenge living up to this campaign promise.And that is because of the atmosphere.Atmosphere is great for us; it allows usto survive here on Earth.But it&#39;s relatively challenging for astronomerswho want to look through the atmosphere to astronomical sources.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:因此，为了让大家更好的理解我用一个比喻就像看一块小溪底的鹅卵石一样在看河底的鹅卵石时溪水不断流动使得观察底部的鹅卵石变的很困难同样的正是因为大气层不停的流动我们很难观测到清晰的外层
en:So, to give you a sense of what this is like,it&#39;s actually like looking at a pebbleat the bottom of a stream.Looking at the pebble on the bottom of the stream,the stream is continuously moving and turbulent,and that makes it very difficult to see the pebble on the bottom of the stream.Very much in the same way, it&#39;s very difficultto see astronomical sources, because of theatmosphere that&#39;s continuously moving by.
时间： 9:22
zh-cn:因此我花费了职业生涯中很长的时间来研究如何克服这一困难来给大家带来一个更清晰的视野这可以提高我们1／20的成功率我认为我们大家都认同这一点如果可以提高生活质量1／20的水平那么整体的生活水平将获得很大的改善拿薪水，或者你的孩子做个例子，你就会发现
en:So, I&#39;ve spent a lot of my career working on waysto correct for the atmosphere, to give us a cleaner view.And that buys us about a factor of 20.And I think all of you can agree that if you canfigure out how to improve life by a factor of 20,you&#39;ve probably improved your lifestyle by a lot,say your salary, you&#39;d notice, or your kids, you&#39;d notice.
时间： 9:43
zh-cn:这个动画展示了自适应光学的应用例子你可以看到一个动画呈现一幅你只有不应用这个技术才可以看到的画面换句话说，就是一幅星象图这个方块位于整个星系的中心也就是黑洞的所在因此，如果没有这项技术，我们无法看到星体应用这项技术我们可以突然的看到它们这项技术在望远镜的光学系统中增加了一块反光镜并通过这种原理进行工作这将持续的改变你对大气层作用的看法因此，这就像给你的望远镜带上一付花式眼镜
en:And this animation here shows you one example ofthe techniques that we use, called adaptive optics.You&#39;re seeing an animation that goes betweenan example of what you would see if you don&#39;t use this technique —in other words, just a picture that shows the stars —and the box is centered on the center of the galaxy,where we think the black hole is.So, without this technology you can&#39;t see the stars.With this technology all of a sudden you can see it.This technology works by introducing a mirrorinto the telescope optics systemthat&#39;s continuously changing to counteract what the atmosphere is doing to you.So, it&#39;s kind of like very fancy eyeglasses for your telescope.
时间：10:18
zh-cn:现在，接下的几幅幻灯片中，我们将主要观察那个小方块我们将集中观测方块内部的星体尽管我们已经观察到了全部我希望观测它们是如何运动的这个的实验过程中星体都运行了相当惊人的距离我们做这个实验已经进行了15年我们了解这些星体的运行轨迹
en:Now, in the next few slides I&#39;m just going to focus onthat little square there.So, we&#39;re only going to look at the stars inside that small square,although we&#39;ve looked at all of them.So, I want to see how these things have moved.And over the course of this experiment, these starshave moved a tremendous amount.So, we&#39;ve been doing this experiment for 15 years,and we see the stars go all the way around.
时间：10:36
zh-cn:多数的天文学家都有自己最喜欢的一颗星而我今天的最爱则是上边那棵标志着SO-2的星体这棵星毫无疑问是我的最爱这是因为它的运行周期是15年为了表明这是一段极短的时间我想说的是太阳需要200亿年才能环绕星系一周我们以前所了解的尽可能的靠近星系中心的星体需要500年来完成同样的环绕然而这一颗星，可以在一个人的生命中就完成环绕这也可以看成是另类的深邃吧
en:Now, most astronomers have a favorite star,and mine today is a star that&#39;s labeled up there, SO-2.Absolutely my favorite star in the world.And that&#39;s because it goes around in only 15 years.And to give you a sense of how short that is,the sun takes 200 million years to go around the center of the galaxy.Stars that we knew about before, that were as close to the center of the galaxyas possible, take 500 years.And this one, this one goes around in a human lifetime.That&#39;s kind of profound, in a way.
时间：11:06
zh-cn:这一点是这次实验的关键运行轨道能可以告诉我在一个短半径内究竟存在多少物质因此，接下来我们将看一幅照片它展示了在这个实验之前，我们能够证实这个星系中心的物质的大小我们之前所了解到的是有超过太阳四亿倍的质量我们可以看到，这个轨道内还有很多其它的东西有很多的星体。所以，对于星系中心存在着巨大黑洞的假设也就存在了很多可能性,因为你可以假设各种各样的物质的存在
en:But it&#39;s the key to this experiment. The orbit tells mehow much mass is inside a very small radius.So, next we see a picture here that shows youbefore this experiment the size to which we couldconfine the mass of the center of the galaxy.What we knew before is that there was four milliontimes the mass of the sun inside that circle.And as you can see, there was a lot of other stuff inside that circle.You can see a lot of stars.So, there was actually lots of alternativesto the idea that there was a supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy,because you could put a lot of stuff in there.
时间：11:36
zh-cn:但是通过这次实验我们证明了在小一些空间的同样的物质缩小了1万倍正因为如此，我们才能看到存在着一个巨型黑洞究竟有多小这是太阳系的大小我们把4亿倍太阳物质塞进这个小空间里
en:But with this experiment, we&#39;ve confinedthat same mass to a much smaller volumethat&#39;s 10,000 times smaller.And because of that, we&#39;ve been able to showthat there is a supermassive black hole there.To give you a sense of how small that size is,that&#39;s the size of our solar system.So, we&#39;re cramming four million times the mass of the suninto that small volume.
时间：11:59
zh-cn:真相出现我曾说过我的工作是要把它缩小到史瓦西半径的范围但事实上，我还没有达到那个程度但是我们目前为止已经没有其它更好的方法来解释物质的聚集程度事实上，这是我们目前所拥有的最好的证据不仅因为我们星系中存在的巨大黑洞在我们的整个宇宙也存在下一步是什么呢我曾经想过这一切都关于我们如何更好的应用现有的科技手段因此让我们来继续这个问题
en:Now, truth in advertising. Right?I have told you my job is to get it down to the Schwarzchild radius.And the truth is, I&#39;m not quite there.But we actually have no alternative todayto explaining this concentration of mass.And, in fact, it&#39;s the best evidence we have to datefor not only existence of a supermassive black holeat the center of our own galaxy, but any in our universe.So, what next? I actually thinkthis is about as good as we&#39;re going to do with today&#39;s technology,so let&#39;s move on with the problem.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:简而言之，我想说的是这几个例子代表着我们今天所能达到的水平在星系的中心，现在我们确认或者说至少我们相信存在一个巨型黑洞这次实验的有趣之处就在于在我们测试有关巨型黑洞位于星系中心的后果的新想法时基本上任何一个新想法都没有局限在我们所能看到的这就是乐趣所在
en:So, what I want to tell you, very briefly,is a few examplesof the excitement of what we can do todayat the center of the galaxy, now that we know that there is,or at least we believe,that there is a supermassive black hole there.And the fun phase of this experimentis, while we&#39;ve tested some of our ideasabout the consequences of a supermassive black holebeing at the center of our galaxy,almost every single onehas been inconsistent with what we actually see.And that&#39;s the fun.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:现在我将给出2个例子你可以问“你对那些很古老的星体，那些已经围绕星系中心很久的星体有足够长的时间与黑洞产生互动的那些有什么预期。”你所期望看到的是那些古老的星体应该环绕在黑洞附近逐渐接近你将可以看到黑洞附近聚集很多星体
en:So, let me give you the two examples.You can ask, &quot;What do you expectfor the old stars, stars that have been around the center of the galaxyfor a long time, they&#39;ve had plenty of time to interact with the black hole.&quot;What you expect there is that old starsshould be very clustered around the black hole.You should see a lot of old stars next to that black hole.
时间：13:12
zh-cn:相似的或者相反的，对于年轻的星体，它们则不应该出现在那个地方黑洞不会是恒星摇篮的好邻居一个星体的形成需要大量的气体与尘埃的崩溃与聚合它是一个非常脆弱的个体黑洞在这起到什么作用呢它可以将气云剥离它对一面起到更大的拉力从而把气云剥离事实上 我们预测 星体的形成不应该在那种环境下发生
en:Likewise, for the young stars, or in contrast, the young stars,they just should not be there.A black hole does not make a kind neighbor to a stellar nursery.To get a star to form, you need a big ball of gas and dust to collapse.And it&#39;s a very fragile entity.And what does the big black hole do?It strips that gas cloud apart.It pulls much stronger on one side than the otherand the cloud is stripped apart.In fact, we anticipated that star formation shouldn&#39;t proceed in that environment.
时间：13:39
zh-cn:所以你不应看到年轻的星体那么我们到底看到了什么使用其它一些观察设施我们可以发现年老或者年轻的星体年长的星体呈现红色而年轻的星体则是蓝色 至于黄色的星体，我们还未知你应该也已经感到很吃惊了年长的星体很少却有着很多的年轻星体 这与我们的预测恰恰相反
en:So, you shouldn&#39;t see young stars.So, what do we see?Using observations that are not the ones I&#39;ve shown you today,we can actually figure out which ones are old and which ones are young.The old ones are red.The young ones are blue. And the yellow ones, we don&#39;t know yet.So, you can already see the surprise.There is a dearth of old stars.There is an abundance of young stars, so it&#39;s the exact opposite of the prediction.
时间：14:01
zh-cn:这也是有趣的地方事实上 这也是我们试图揭开的一个谜团一个有关我们如何可以解决这个完全相反的结论所以实际上，我的硕士生们正在夏威夷的天文观测站进行观测希望能我们可以很快的进入下一个阶段那时我们将重新阐释这个问题也就是为什么有这么多的年轻星体而老年星体则如此稀少为了进一步的研究 我们必须要观测运行轨道那些更远星体的运行轨道为了做到一点我们将会需要更成熟的技术
en:So, this is the fun part.And in fact, today, this is what we&#39;re trying to figure out,this mystery of how do you get —how do you resolve this contradiction.So, in fact, my graduate studentsare, at this very moment, today, at the telescope,in Hawaii, making observations to get ushopefully to the next stage,where we can address this questionof why are there so many young stars,and so few old stars.To make further progress we really need to look at the orbitsof stars that are much further away.To do that we&#39;ll probably need much moresophisticated technology than we have today.
时间：14:34
zh-cn:因为事实上 当我说到我们正在针对地球大气层进行调节时我们仅仅更正差不多半数的错误我们通过向大气层发射激光来做到这一点同时 我们也认为通过这种做法我们可以继续更正剩余的错误这是我们希望将在接下来几年里完成的人物更长的一段时间内我们希望建成更大更精确的观测望远镜因为在天文学里，大意味着好
en:Because, in truth, while I said we&#39;re correctingfor the Earth&#39;s atmosphere, we actually onlycorrect for half the errors that are introduced.We do this by shooting a laser up into the atmosphere,and what we think we can do is if weshine a few more that we can correct the rest.So this is what we hope to do in the next few years.And on a much longer time scale,what we hope to do is build even larger telescopes,because, remember, bigger is better in astronomy.
时间：14:58
zh-cn:我们希望可以建出一部30米天文望远镜一旦实现 我们将通过它更好的观测更近距离的星体与此同时我们也可以证实爱因斯坦的广义相对论有关星系是如何形成的宇宙学的一些观点。我们认为未来我们将做的实验会非常的令人惊奇
en:So, we want to build a 30 meter telescope.And with this telescope we should be able to seestars that are even closer to the center of the galaxy.And we hope to be able to test some ofEinstein&#39;s theories of general relativity,some ideas in cosmology about how galaxies form.So, we think the future of this experimentis quite exciting.
时间：15:18
zh-cn:作为结论 我将展示一个3D动画呈现这些轨道是如何移动的我希望，哪怕没有任何别的我至少成功的说服了你们在星系的中心确实有一个巨型黑洞这意味着这些物质的确存在在我们的宇宙中我们必须要承认这一点我们需要解释如何可以将那些物质引用到我们的物理世界
en:So, in conclusion, I&#39;m going to show you an animationthat basically shows you how theseorbits have been moving, in three dimensions.And I hope, if nothing else,I&#39;ve convinced you that, one, we do in facthave a supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy.And this means that these things do exist in our universe,and we have to contend with this, we have to explainhow you can get these objects in our physical world.
时间：15:40
zh-cn:第二点 巨型黑洞之间是如何产生影响的如果可能的话 尽可能的理解它们在形成星系的过程中所扮演的角色以及这过原理
en:Second, we&#39;ve been able to look at that interactionof how supermassive black holes interact,and understand, maybe, the role in which they playin shaping what galaxies are, and how they work.
时间：15:53
zh-cn:最后如果没有令人震惊的进展使得科学前沿不断的进步这一切的成就都不可能达成我们认为这是一个不断快速发展的领域未来的发展不可限量非常感谢(掌声)
en:And last but not least,none of this would have happenedwithout the advent of the tremendous progressthat&#39;s been made on the technology front.And we think that this is a field that is moving incredibly fast,and holds a lot in store for the future.Thanks very much.(Applause)
