时间： 0:11
zh-cn:伟大的创造力，在必要的时候，我们需要伟大的创造力讨论一下。伟大的创造力充满让人吃惊的、不可思议的、理性及非理性的力量。伟大的创造力能够传播宽容和捍卫自由且让教育看上去是一个明智的选择（笑声）
en:Great creativity. In times of need, we need great creativity.Discuss. Great creativity is astonishingly, absurdly, rationally, irrationally powerful.Great creativity can spread tolerance, champion freedom,make education seem like a bright idea.(Laughter)
时间： 0:32
zh-cn:伟大的创造力能把焦点转到损失上或者表明那样的损失是不必要的伟大的创造力能让政治家们当选也能让政党败选它能让战争成为悲剧，也可以让它成为闹剧
en:Great creativity can turn a spotlight on deprivation,or show that deprivation ain&#39;t necessarily so.Great creativity can make politicians electable,or parties unelectable.It can make war seem like tragedy or farce.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:创造力也可以成为文化基因的创造者，比如在我们的T恤上印上各种标语和创造一些口头禅它是能为我们指出明路的开拓者让我们穿越一个牢不可破的道德迷阵科学意味着聪明，但是伟大的创造力却是不可琢磨的它充满了魔力，而我们现在需要这样的魔力现在正是需要创造力的时候
en:Creativity is the meme-maker that puts slogans on our t-shirtsand phrases on our lips.It&#39;s the pathfinder that shows us a simple roadthrough an impenetrable moral maze.Science is clever, but great creativity is something less knowable,more magical. And now we need that magic.This is a time of need.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:我们的气候正在发生快速的变化，太快了伟大的创造力需要被用在能发挥它的作用的地方去激发我们带着有巨大创造性的声明去进行不同的思考去诱导我们带着极受欢迎的创造性的想法去采取不同的行动这里就有一个这样的想法，它来自于一个我参与的倡议它利用创造力去鼓励人们他去做环保
en:Our climate is changing quickly, too quickly.And great creativity is needed to do what it does so well:to provoke us to think differently with dramatic creative statements.To tempt us to act differentlywith delightful creative scraps.Here is one such scrap from an initiative I&#39;m involved inusing creativity to inspire people to be greener.
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:录像（男人的声音）：你知道，今天我打算放弃开车，选择步行
en:(Video) Man: You know, rather than drive today, I&#39;m going to walk.
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:旁白：他真的选择了步行，而且在步行过程中他看到了一些有意思的事情这些奇怪而绝妙的事情他本来是看不到的一只腿发痒的鹿和一辆会飞的摩托车一对父女和他们的自行车被一堵诡异的墙隔开了接着他停了下来。走在他前面的是个女人那个如孩子般的女人已经带着他从这里穿了过去并且伤了他的心当然，她的年纪是稍微大了一点事实上，她的年纪确实比较大了但是她的归来重新燃起了他的热情他轻声的喊了声“Ford”，那是她的名字“不要再说了，Gusty”她说道Gusty是他的名字“我知道在离这里300码的地方，在一辆篷车的旁边有一个帐篷”“让我们到那里去做爱吧，就在那个帐篷里”Ford脱光了衣服。她伸开一条腿，又伸开另一条腿Gusty大胆的进入了她的身体，和她做爱这个时候她为他拍了照片，因为她是一个狂热但业余的色情作品制作人连地球都为他们两个而感动从此以后，他们幸福的生活在一起而这一切都是因为那天他决定步行的结果（掌声）
en:Narrator: And so he walked, and as he walked he saw things.Strange and wonderful things he would not otherwise have seen.A deer with an itchy leg. A flying motorcycle.A father and daughter separated from a bicycle by a mysterious wall.And then he stopped. Walking in front of him was her.The woman who as a child had skipped with him through fieldsand broken his heart.Sure, she had aged a little.In fact, she had aged a lot.But he felt all his old passion for her return.&quot;Ford,&quot; he called softly. For that was her name.&quot;Don&#39;t say another word, Gusty,&quot; she said,for that was his name.&quot;I know a tent next to a caravan, exactly 300 yards from here.Let&#39;s go there and make love. In the tent.&quot;Ford undressed. She spread one leg, and then the other.Gusty entered her boldly and made love to her rhythmicallywhile she filmed him, because she was a keen amateur pornographer.The earth moved for both of them.And they lived together happily ever after.And all because he decided to walk that day.(Applause)
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:Andy Hobsbawm：我们已经拥有了科学，我们已经进行了辩论相应的道德准则也已尽人皆知我们需要有伟大的创造力去处理这一切让它变得简单明了去把它联系起来，让每一个人都愿意去行动起来所以这是对不可思议的天才般的TED社区的一个呼吁和请求让我们有创造性的去应对气候的变化让我们马上行动起来！谢谢（鼓掌）
en:Andy Hobsbawm: We&#39;ve got the science, we&#39;ve had the debate.The moral imperative is on the table.Great creativity is needed to take it all,make it simple and sharp.To make it connect. To make it make people want to act.So this is a call, a plea,to the incredibly talented TED community.Let&#39;s get creative against climate change.And let&#39;s do it soon. Thank you.(Applause)
