时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我和女孩儿们坐在一起Joy说，“该死！我真希望我爸爸别再唠叨我了。他老是对我讲个不停。”
en:I was sitting with my girls,and Joy said,&quot;Dang, I wish he&#39;d get off my back.My daddy, he calls me all the time.&quot;
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:Jasmine说：“能有他的唠叨是你的幸运，我已经好多年没有我爸爸的消息了。”
en:&quot;Lucky for you he calls at all,&quot; said Jasmine.&quot;I haven&#39;t heard from my dad in years.&quot;
时间： 0:32
zh-cn:这让我明白女孩儿们需要一种方法来跟自己的父亲建立沟通。在我的非营利组织（non-profit organization ）Camp Diva里，这样的对话每天都在发生。我们通过这种方式帮助非洲血统的女孩儿们为成为一名真正的女性做好准备。她们需要的只是一种以她们的意愿来让父亲进入自己生活的方式。
en:At this moment, I knew the girls needed a wayto connect with their fathers.At Camp Diva, my non-profit organization,we have these types of conversations all the timeas a way to help girls of African descentprepare for their passage into womanhood.These girls just neededa way to invite their fathers into their liveson their own terms.
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:因此我问她们，“我们怎样才能其他人与父亲建立起健康的关系？”
en:So I asked the girls,&quot;How can we help other girlsdevelop healthy relationships with their fathers?&quot;
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:一个女孩儿喊出：“我们可以跳舞！”其他女孩儿很快表示支持。她们开始想像装饰品是什么样的，用什么样的邀请卡，她们要穿的衣服，以及父亲们会穿什么，不会穿什么。（笑声）整件事儿发生得太快了，我甚至没来得及眨眼。但尽管我本可以告诉女孩儿们慢慢来，我却没有。因为我从十多年与女孩儿们共处的时光里学到的一件事就是她们早就知道她们需要什么了。她们的聪慧与生俱来，只要有最基本的东西，合理的指导和资源，她们就能获得需要的一切，而这绝不仅仅只为了生存，更为了好好地生活。
en:&quot;Let&#39;s have a dance,&quot; one girl shouted,and all the girls quickly backed her up.They started dreaming about the decorations,invitations, the dresses they were going to wear,and what their fathers could and could not wear. (Laughter)It was off and running before I could even blink my eyes,but even if I could have slowed down those girls,I wouldn&#39;t have,because one thing that I have learnedfrom over a decade of working with girlsis that they already know what they need.The wisdom lives inside of them.As long as they have infrastructure,mentorship and resources,they can build what they need,not only to survive, but to thrive.
时间： 2:08
zh-cn:所以我们办了个舞会，女孩儿和父亲们挤满了舞厅，他们盛装打扮，举止优雅。（笑声）尽管看上去笨笨的，他们真的很享受彼此的陪伴。舞会获得了巨大的成功。女孩儿们决定每年都举办一次。
en:So we had a dance,and girls and their fathers came in multitudes.They were dressed to the nines.They acted sweet.(Laughter)They acted silly.They really enjoyed each other&#39;s company.It was a huge success.And the girls decided to make it an annual event.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:随着时间的推移，又到了举行舞会的时间，一个叫Brianna的女孩儿她说，“我爸爸不能来跳舞了，我好难过。”
en:So as the seasons changed,and it was time to plan the dance again,one girl named Brianna spoke up,and she said,&quot;My dad can&#39;t come to the dance,and this whole thing is making me sad.&quot;
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:别的女孩问：“为什么？”
en:&quot;Why not?&quot; the girls asked.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:“他坐牢了。”她勇敢地承认。
en:&quot;Because he&#39;s in jail,&quot; she bravely admitted.
时间： 3:04
zh-cn:“他就出来一天不行吗？”一个女孩儿问。（笑声）
en:&quot;Well, can he just get out for a day?&quot; one of the girls asked. (Laughter)
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:“戴着脚镣？”“那还不如不让他出现在这儿。”
en:&quot;And come in shackles?That&#39;s worse than not having him here at all.&quot;
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:这时，我感觉到了一个机会，让女孩儿们抓住时机，成为自己的英雄。所以我问：“你们觉得我们该怎么办？我们想让每个女孩儿都参加舞会，对不对？“
en:At this moment, I saw an opportunityfor the girls to rise to the occasionand to become their own heroes.So I asked, &quot;What do you think we should do about this?We want every girl to experience the dance, right?&quot;
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:女孩儿们思索了一会儿，一个女孩提了个建议，”为什么不把舞会设在监狱里？“
en:So the girls thought for a moment,and one girl suggested,&quot;Why don&#39;t we just take the dance in the jail?&quot;
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:大多数女孩儿表示怀疑，说：”你疯了？谁会允许一群小姑娘穿着漂亮的衣服——（笑声）——在监狱里跟穿着海绵宝宝衣服的父亲跳舞？“女孩儿们是这样形容自己的父亲的。
en:Most of the girls doubted the possibility of that,and said, &quot;Are you crazy?Who is going to allow a bunch of little girls,dressed up — &quot; (Laughter)&quot; — to come inside a jail and dance with their daddies in Spongebob suits?&quot;Because that&#39;s what they called them.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:我说：”好啦好啦，姑娘们，如果不问，你永远都不知道行不行。“
en:I said, &quot;Girls, well, well,you never know unless you ask.&quot;
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:所以我们给Richmond市治安官写了封信，每个人都签了名。我必须要说，他是个特别的治安官。他立刻联系了我，说，无论何时有让家庭在监狱里团聚的机会，他都愿意促成，他的大门都会打开。因为他知道，当父亲和孩子感情相通，他们就减少了重返犯罪的可能。
en:So a letter was written to the Richmond City Sheriff,signed collectively by each girl,and I would have to say, he is a very special sheriff.He contacted me immediately and said,whenever there is an opportunity to bring families inside,his doors are always open.Because one thing he did know,that when fathers are connected to their children,it is less likely that they will return.
时间： 4:52
zh-cn:所以，16名罪犯和18个女孩儿受到了邀请。女孩儿们穿上最漂亮的衣服，父亲们脱下黄色和蓝色的连身衣，换上西装，扎起了领带。他们拥抱。他们享受了一顿带鸡肉和鱼肉的美味大餐。他们开怀大笑。那场景太美了。父亲和女儿们甚至拥有了好多人以前片刻都没有体验过的身体上的一种联系。父亲们终于能够扮演一个能让自己的女儿展示自己的能力，为她们拉开椅子，伸出手，邀请她们跳舞的角色。连警卫都感动落泪。
en:So,16 inmates and 18 girls were invited.The girls were dressed in their Sunday best,and the fathers traded in their yellow and blue jumpsuitsfor shirts and ties.They hugged.They shared a full catered meal of chicken and fish.They laughed together.It was beautiful.The fathers and daughters even experiencedan opportunity to have a physical connection,something that a lot of them didn&#39;t even havefor a while.Fathers were in a space where they were able tomake their daughters play,and pull out her chair and extend his hand for a dance.Even the guards cried.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:但舞会结束后，我们意识到父亲还要继续在监狱里生活，所以我们得做出一些他们可以随身携带的东西。所以我们用带来的便携摄像机，用镜头纪录下他们的互相采访——讲讲自己的消息和想法。这将成为维持感情的纽带，一旦他们想念彼此，感到孤独，就可以通过影像重新得到心灵上的相通。
en:But after the dance,we all realized that Dad still would be in jail.So we needed to create somethingthat they could take with them.So we brought in Flip cams,and we had them look at the Flip camsand just interview each other —their messages, their thoughts.This was going to be used as a touchstoneso when they started to miss each otherand feel disconnected,they could reconnect through this image.
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:我永远都不会忘记，一个女孩儿拿着摄像机，直视父亲的眼睛，问：”“爸爸，当你看我的时候，你看到了什么？“因为父亲就是一面镜子。当我们回顾自我，思索我们该与什么样的男性共度余生，他们又如何看待我们时。我们看到的是父亲折射出的影子。对此我再清楚不过，因为我个是幸运的女孩儿，我的父亲一直在我的生命中不曾离开。今天他甚至来到了现场。
en:I&#39;ll never forget that one girl looked in her father&#39;s eyeswith that camera and said,&quot;Daddy, when you look at me, what do you see?&quot;Because our daddies are our mirrorsthat we reflect back onwhen we decide about what type of man we deserve,and how they see us for the rest of our lives.I know that very well,because I was one of the lucky girls.I have hadmy father in my life always.He&#39;s even here today.
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 7:30
zh-cn:这也是为什么确保这些女孩儿和父亲间建立起精神纽带对我来说如此重要，特别是那些被带着倒钩的铁网和铁门隔开的父女。我们已经建立起一种让有着沉重问题的女孩儿们向自己的父亲问出问题，并留给父亲回答的自由的方式。因为我们知道这些父亲心中也有一个问题，”我要把一个什么样的女性留在这个世界上？“因为一位被锁在牢房里的父亲不应该也被禁锢在女儿的生活之外。
en:And that is why it is extremely specialfor me to make sure that these girlsare connected to their fathers,especially those who are separatedbecause of barbed wires and metal doors.We have just created a formfor girls who have heavy questions on their heartto be in a position to ask their fathers those questionsand given the fathers the freedom to answer.Because we know that the fathersare even leaving with this one thought:What type of woman am I preparing to put in the world?Because a father is locked indoes not mean he should be locked outof his daughter&#39;s life.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
