时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我带给你们一个消息，它源于成千上万的人，这些人住在村庄和贫民窟里，在一个国家中不为人知的偏远地方，这些人利用他们的天才智慧解决了很多问题，而且没有得到任何外界的帮助。正当我们的自己国家的总理宣布，就在几周前，一场针对1/3的印度的战争，他提到的大概有200个地区，这些地区没有得到应有的管理，可是他漏掉了一点，在过去21年中我们一直在强调一个事情这就是有些人也许经济上很贫困，但是他们并不笨。换种说法，边缘人思想不等于多余没用的思想。正是在这样的理念支撑之下我们31年前开始了这个项目我们当时开始了什么？
en:I bring to youa message fromtens of thousands of people —in the villages, in the slums,in the hinterland of the country —who have solved problemsthrough their own genius,without anyoutside help.When our home minister announcesa few weeks agoa war onone third of India,about 200 districts that he mentionedwere ungovernable,he missed the point.The point that we have been stressingfor the last 21 years,the point thatpeople may be economically poor,but they&#39;re not poor in the mind.In other words,the minds on the marginare not the marginal minds.That is the message,which we started 31 years ago.And what did it start?
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:让我告诉你，简单，是我的个人旅程，它塑造了现在的我。1985到1986年我当时住在孟加拉国为政府和研究院提议如何去帮助科学家们在在穷人中间工作以及如果去发展研究技术，那是基于很多人的智慧。1986年我回来了。我当时被我在这个国家中发现的知识和创造力所鼓舞，这个国家有百分之六十的人口没有土地。但是惊人的创造力。我开始回顾我的工作。那些在过去10年中我完成的工作，几乎每次，都有人们分享的知识。
en:Let me just tell you, briefly, my personal journey,which led me to come to this point.In &#39;85, &#39;86, I was in Bangladeshadvising the government and the research council therehow to help scientists work on the lands,on the fields of the poor people,and how to develop research technologies,which are based on the knowledge of the people.I came back in &#39;86.I had been tremendously invigoratedby the knowledge and creativity that I found in that country,which had 60 percent landlessnessbut amazing creativity.I started looking at my own work:The work that I had donefor the previous 10 years,almost every time,had instances of knowledgethat people had shared.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:现在，我挣着美元，作为一个顾问，同时我看着我的政府退税并试着问我自己：‘有没有这么一个联系，可以显示出这些收入中有多少被分配给了那些拥有让这一切变为可能的知识的人？’是因为我很聪明而得到奖励，或者【不清楚】？是因为我善于写文章吗？是我善于雄辩嘛？是我善于分析数据吗？是因为我是一个教授吗，还是，所以，还是说这是我应得的奖励？我试着去说服自己，‘不，不，我致力于改变政策你知道，公共政策会变得更加关心与穷人的需求，这，我认为是好事。’但是我发现这些年我一直致力于对剥削的研究，被房东剥削，被债主，被商人，我也意识到也许我也是一个剥削者，因为在我的收入退税中没有一条显示出这个收入发生过是因为这些人的才能，那些与我分享了他们的智慧，信仰与信任的人，并且没有任何东西去回馈给他们。以至于，那么多我那个时候的工作都是英文的。
en:Now, I was paid in dollars as a consultant,and I looked at my income tax returnand tried to ask myself: &quot;Is there a line in my return,which shows how much of this income has goneto the people whose knowledgehas made it possible?Was it because I&#39;m brilliantthat I&#39;m getting this reward, or because of the revolution?Is it that I write very well?Is it that I articulate very well?Is it that I analyze the data very well?Is it because I&#39;m a professor, and, therefore,I must be entitled to this reward from society?&quot;I tried to convince myself that, &quot;No, no,I have worked for the policy changes.You know, the public policy will becomemore responsive to the needs of the poor,and, therefore I think it&#39;s okay.&quot;But it appeared to methat all these years that I&#39;d been working on exploitation —exploitation by landlords,by moneylenders, by traders —gave me an insight thatprobably I was also an exploiter,because there was no line in my income tax returnwhich showed this income accruedbecause of the brilliance of the people —those people who have shared their knowledge and good faith and trust with me —and nothing ever went back to them.So much so, that much of my work till that timewas in the English language.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:我曾经受益过的大部分人都不懂英文。我反思：我过去都做了些什么贡献？我在谈论社会公正，并且这里我是一个遵循最不公的行为的专家，从人们那里得到知识，让他们默默无闻，我因为这些知识而变得富裕我作顾问，写报告，在报纸上发表到各种会议做演说提供咨询服务等然后，在思想中发生一个矛盾面，如果我是一个剥削者，那就是不对的，生活不能这样下去。同时这是非常痛苦的时刻因为我不能在这样生活下去了。所以如果我重新审视，在做社会科学以及管理研究时遇到的伦理困境写作，阅读大概100个报告。然后我得到一个结论，虽然矛盾是特殊的，矛盾不特殊，但解决方法必须是特殊的。
en:The majority of the people from whom I learned didn&#39;t know English.So what kind of a contributor was I?I was talking about social justice,and here I was, a professionalwho was pursuing the most unjust act —of taking knowledge from the people, making them anonymous,getting rent from that knowledgeby sharing it and doing consultancy, writing papers andpublishing them in the papers,getting invited to the conferences,getting consultancies and whatever have you.So then, a dilemma rose in the mind that,if I&#39;m also an exploiter, then this is not right;life cannot go on like that.And this was a moment of great pain and traumabecause I couldn&#39;t live with it any longer.So I did a review ofethical dilemma and value conflicts and management research,wrote, read about 100 papers.And I came to the conclusion thatwhile dilemma is unique,dilemma is not unique; the solution had to be unique.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:然后一天—我不知道什么发什么了—当从办公室回家的时候，也许我看见了一只蜜蜂，或者发生在我的意识中，如果我可以成为一只蜜蜂，生命也许会很美妙。蜜蜂的工作是什么：它们授粉，从花中得到花蜜，授粉给另一朵花，交叉授粉。同时当它得到花蜜，花并不会感到不公。其实，鲜花还因为有鲜艳的颜色而招来了小蜜蜂同时蜜蜂也不会保留所有的蜜。蜜蜂的社会有3条准则—那就是无论什么时候我们从他人那学到一些东西那这些东西同时也必须通过他们的语言和这些人分享。他们必须得到认可而不是被忽略。
en:And one day — I don&#39;t know what happened —while coming back from the office towards home,maybe I saw a honey beeor it occurred to my mind that if I only could be like the honey bee,life would be wonderful.What the honey bee does: it pollinates,takes nectar from the flower,pollinates another flower, cross-pollinates.And when it takes the nectar,the flowers don&#39;t feel shortchanged.In fact, they invite the honey beesthrough their colors,and the bees don&#39;t keep all the honey for themselves.These are the three guiding principles of the Honey Bee Network:that whenever we learn something from peopleit must be shared with them in their language.They must not remain anonymous.
时间： 4:45
zh-cn:而我必须告诉你，20年后，我专注于自己职业上的这种行为从没有改变过一点点这使我感觉我仍然背负着这样的行为是一种悲剧，并且我希望你们所有人都秉着这样的能力去合法的发表他人的知识而忽略他们的存在。美国国家科学机关的研究大纲或者英国的研究院或者是印度科学研究所没有要求，不管你从别人那学到些什么都必须要和他们分享。我们讨论的是一个负责的社会，一个公平的的社会。然而我们甚至在知识市场上做不到公正。而印度希望成为一个知识社会。要怎么做才能成为一个知识社会？显然，我们不能有两个不同的公证制度，一个给自己，一个给别人。这个制度必须是相同。不能有歧视。不能只对自己的价值观有利，而和周围人的价值观形成一定的距离。所以，人人平等是不能被分割的。
en:And I must tell you that after 20 years,I have not made one percent of changein the professional practice of this art.That is a great tragedy — which I&#39;m carrying still with meand I hope that all of you will carry this with you —that the profession still legitimizes publicationof knowledge of people without attributing themby making them anonymous.The research guidelines of U.S. National Academy of Sciencesor Research Councils of the U.K.or of Indian Councils of Science Researchdo not requirethat whatever you learn from people, you must share back with them.We are talking about an accountable society,a society that is fair and just,and we don&#39;t even do justice in the knowledge market.And India wants to be a knowledge society.How will it be a knowledge society?So, obviously, you cannot have two principles of justice,one for yourself and one for others.It must be the same.You cannot discriminate.You cannot be in favor of your own values,which are at a distance fromthe values that you espouse.So, fairness to one and to the otheris not divisible.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:看看这张照片。你能告诉我它是在哪儿拍摄的吗，并且谁能告诉我它是意在什么？我是个教授，我必须考考你们。谁？哪怕是猜一猜？对不起？（听众：Rajastha。）Anil Gupta：可是这张照片是被用作什么的？它曾经被用做什么？（窃窃私语）对不起？你知道吗，你是对的。我们必须给予他鼓励。因为这个人知道我们的政府有多迟钝。看看这个。这个是印度政府的所在地。它吸引了很多游客去观看我们的国家的耻辱。我对我所说的感到非常抱歉。这是一张很美的照片—或者是很糟的？这完全取决你怎么看到人们的生活。如有这个女人要用头顶着水行走几十甚至上百英里，你不能为这事感到庆幸。我们必须做些什么。那么让我告诉你，我们现在所拥有的所有科学技术，成百上千万的妇女仍然需要用他们的头搬运水。而我们却没有问问自己。
en:Look at this picture.Can you tell me where has it been taken from,and what is it meant for? Anybody?I&#39;m a professor; I must quiz you. (Laughter)Anybody? Any guess at all?Pardon? (Audience Member: Rajasthan.)Anil Gupta: But what has it been used for? What has it been used for?(Murmuring)Pardon?You know, you&#39;re so right. We must give him a hand,because this man knows how insensitive our government is.Look at this. This is the site of the government of India.It invites touriststo see the shame of our country.I&#39;m so sorry to say that.Is this a beautiful pictureor is it a terrible picture?It depends upon how you look at the life of the people.If this woman has to carry water on her headfor miles and miles and miles,you cannot be celebrating that.We should be doing something about it.And let me tell you, with all the science and technology at our command,millions of women still carry water on their heads.And we do not ask this question.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:你每天早上都喝茶。用一点时间想一想。茶叶，摘自茶树。你知道这是一系列什么动作吗？这一系列的动作是：采茶女采下几片叶子，把它们放在背后的篮子里。只要做十几次；你就会发现肩膀有多疼。而她需要每天重复做几千次。你们午餐吃的米饭，你今天将要吃的，是妇女们弯着腰摆成非常奇怪的姿势移植的，成百上千万的妇女，每一季，在谷季，当他们移植稻谷时他们是光着脚的。脚在水里会诱发真菌，感染。而且感染很疼因为昆虫会咬这些感染的地方。而且每年，百分之99.9的稻谷是手工移植的。没有人发明这样的机器。
en:You must have taken tea in the morning.Think for a minute.The leaves of the tea, plucked from the bushes;you know what the action is? The action is:The lady picks up a few leaves, puts them in the basket on the backside.Just do it 10 times;you will realize the pain in this shoulder.And she does it a few thousand timesevery day.The rice that you ate in the lunch, and you will eat today,is transplanted by womenbending in a very awkward posture,millions of them,every season, in the paddy season,when they transplant paddywith their feet in the water.And feet in the water will develop fungus,infections,and that infection painsbecause then other insects bite that point.And every year,99.9 percent of the paddy is transplanted manually.No machines have been developed.
时间： 7:39
zh-cn:所以科学家的沉寂，科技的沉寂，公众政策决策者的沉寂，改革中心的沉寂，这引起了我们的注意，不能继续这样下去了这不是将来社会的工作方式。这不是我们的国会会做的事，你知道。我们有劳工方案。2亿5千万人从这个国家得到了100天的工作。做什么哪？他们砸石头，挖地。我们问问政府国会，穷人有头脑吗？穷人有腿，嘴和手，但是没有头脑？
en:So the silence of scientists,of technologists, of public policy makers,of the change agent, drew our attention that this is not on, this is not on;this is not the way society will work.This is not what our parliament would do. You know,we have a program for employment:One hundred, 250 million peoplehave to be given jobs for 100 days by this great country.Doing what? Breaking stones, digging earth.So we asked a question to the parliament:Do poor have heads?Do poor have legs, mouth and hands, but no head?
时间： 8:11
zh-cn:蜜蜂网络建立在穷人阶级也是富有的。然而发生了什么？匿名，没有脸部，没有名字，人们在网络里联系，然后得到一个身份。这就是蜜蜂网络的工作方式。这个网络自行成长，并且继续自行成长，同时也在尝试去发掘我们国家以及世界其他地区的创意个体的无限智慧他们可能是教育上的创新；文化上的创新；机构上的创新，但是我们的工作是在科技方面的创新有现代的创新，也有基于传统知识的创新而他们都开始于好奇心。他们都始于好奇心。
en:So Honey Bee Network builds upon the resource in which poor people are rich.And what has happened?An anonymous, faceless, nameless persongets in contact with the network,and then gets an identity.This is what Honey Bee Network is about.And this network grew voluntarily,continues to be voluntary,and has tried to map the mindsof millions of peopleof our country and other parts of the world who are creative.They could be creative in terms of education,they may be creative in terms of culture,they may be creative in terms of institutions;but a lot of our work is in the field of technological creativity,the innovations,either in terms of contemporary innovations,or in terms of traditional knowledge.And it all begins with curiosity.It all begins with curiosity.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:这个人，我们遇见的，你们会在网站上见到，Soshidoto Arjii，他是个土著，他有一个希望。他说，“如果我愿望成真”—有人生病了并且需要看护—“神啊，请治愈他。如果有你治好他，我会在墙上作画。”而这是他画的。有人昨天谈到马斯洛需求阶梯图没有比马斯洛的这个模型对人的需求的描述更错误的了因为这个国家的穷人是可以获得灵光的。Kalwi，Rahim，所有伟大的苏非派圣人，他们都是穷人，并且他们有一个很大的理由。请在满足你物质需要求和其他需求之后再去考虑你的精神需求。任何人在任何地点都能达到那种造诣的至高点，他们必须需达到目标只有那样他们才能解决他们的心事。
en:This person, whom we met — and you will see it on the website,www.sristi.org — this tribal person,he had a wish.And he said, &quot;If my wish gets fulfilled&quot; —somebody was sick and he had to monitor —&quot;God, please cure him.And if you cure him, I will get my wall painted.&quot;And this is what he got painted.Somebody was talking yesterday about Maslowian hierarchy.There could be nothing more wrong thanthe Maslowian model of hierarchy of needsbecause the poorest people in this country can get enlightenment.Kabir, Rahim, all the great Sufi saints,they were all poor people,and they had a great reason. (Applause)Please do not ever think thatonly after meeting your physiological needs and other needscan you be thinking about your spiritual needs or your enlightenment.Any person anywhere is capableof rising to that highest point of attainment,only by the resolve that they have in their mind that they must achieve something.
时间： 9:47
zh-cn:看看这个。我们在远征的时候看到了。每6个月，我们都会走到印度不同的地区在过去的12年中我们步行了4000公里。在路边，我么发现这些晒干的排泄物，他们可以作为燃料。你们看见这位女士，她站在这座又排泄物堆成的墙下画了一张画。这个是她唯一可以表现自己创造力的地方。而且她十分优秀。看看这为女士，Ram Timari Devi,他在一个坚巴兰的谷物篮上，我们当时在进行远征我们走在曾经走过的地方我们在那里听到了靛青种植者的痛苦故事办库拉普鲁利亚的Bhabi Mahato。看看她都干了什么。整个墙都是画板。她戴着一个扫把坐在那儿。她是一位工匠还是一个艺术家？很显然他是一位艺术家；她是一个富有创造力的人。如果我们能为这些艺术家创造一个市场，我们就不会只是雇用他们挖地或者碎石了。他们会因为自己所擅长的得到酬劳，而不是那些他们不擅长的。（鼓掌）
en:Look at this.We saw it in Shodh Yatra. Every six months we walkin different parts of the country.I&#39;ve walked about 4,000 kilometers in the last 12 years.So on the waysidewe found these dung cakes,which are used as a fuel.Now, this lady, on the wall of the dung cake heap,has made a painting.That&#39;s the only space she could express her creativity.And she&#39;s so marvelous.Look at this lady, Ram Timari Devi,on a grain bin. In Champaran, we had a Shodh Yatraand we were walkingin the land where Gandhiji wentto hear about the tragedy, painof indigo growers.Bhabi Mahato in Purulia and Bankura.Look at what she has done.The whole wall is her canvas. She&#39;s sitting there with a broom.Is she an artisan or an artist?Obviously she&#39;s an artist; she&#39;s a creative person.If we can create markets for these artists,we will not have to employ them for digging earth and breaking stones.They will be paid for what they are good at, not what they&#39;re bad at.(Applause)
时间：10:47
zh-cn:看看Rojadeen都做了些什么。在坚巴兰的莫提哈里，有很多人在棚子中出售茶叶显然，茶的市场是有限的，每天早上你可以喝茶也可以喝咖啡。所以他想，我们为什么不能把压力锅改造成咖啡机。这种咖啡机只花费几百卢比。很多人把他们的锅拿来，加上阀门和蒸汽管，然后就可以做特浓咖啡了。这是种真正而且便宜的燃气式咖啡机。（鼓掌）看看Sheikh Jahangir所做的。很多穷人没有足够的谷物种植。所以这个人就拿来了装了两个轮子的磨面机。如果你有500克,1000克,这个机器可以帮你磨面；而普通的磨面机通常不会只磨这么少量
en:Look at what Rojadeen has done.In Motihari in Champaran,there are a lot of people who sell tea on the shackand, obviously, there&#39;s a limited market for tea.Every morning you have tea, as well as coffee.So he thought, why don&#39;t I converta pressure cooker into a coffee machine?So this is a coffee machine. Just takes a few hundred rupees.People bring their own cooker,he attaches a valve and a steam pipe,and now he gives you espresso coffee. (Laughter)Now, this is a real, affordablecoffee percolator that works on gas.(Applause)Look at what Sheikh Jahangir has done.A lot of poor people do not haveenough grains to get ground.So this fellow is bringinga flour-grinding machine on a two-wheeler.If you have 500 grams, 1000, one kilogram,he will grind it for it for you; the flourmill will not grind such a small quantity.
时间：11:35
zh-cn:请理解穷人的面对的问题。这些人他们有自身的一些需求要在能量、成本和质量方面得到最高效的满足他们不想要此等的质量或产品但是他们想要的他们出产的好东西就得需要让他们得到合适的科技。这就是Sheihk Jahangir所做的。但是他做的还不够。看看他在这做的。如果你有衣服却没有时间洗，他可以给你带来一个装有两个轮子的洗衣机。这有一个有两个轮子的洗衣机模型...他会在你们的门口为你洗衣凉衣。（鼓掌）自带水和肥皂。我这机器可以为你洗衣服，只需要1卢比1卢比50PESA（重量单位）同时建立了一个新型的商业模型。现在我们需要一些可以帮助他们扩大其商业规模的人。
en:Please understand the problem of poor people.They have needs whichhave to be met efficientlyin terms of energy, in terms of cost, in terms of quality.They don&#39;t want second-standard, second-quality outputs.But to be able to give them high-quality outputyou need to adapt technology to their needs.And that is what Sheikh Jahangir did.But that&#39;s not enough, what he did. Look at what he did here.If you have clothes, and you don&#39;t have enough time to wash them,he brought a washing machineto your doorstep, mounted on a two-wheeler.So here&#39;s a model wherea two-wheeler washing machine ...He is washing your clothes and drying them at your doorstep.(Applause)You bring your water, you bring your soap,I wash the clothes for you. Charge 50 paisa, one rupeefor you per lot,and a new business model can emerge.Now, what we need is, we needpeople who will be able to scale them up.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:看看这个。看起来像一幅美丽的照片。但是你们知道这是什么？有人能猜一猜吗？印度来的人能知道，当然。这是一个tawa（一种印度厨具）。它是一种用陶土做的盘子。那么，这东西美在什么地方？一个不粘锅，花费大概是，250卢比，5-6美元，这个是一个小于1美元的方法。这是一个不粘锅。他表面包着一种食物降解材料。最好的地方是，当时用着一个很贵的不粘锅时，你同时也吃了一种叫特氟龙的物质，或者类似的材料。因为过了一段时间后这些物质就消失了。去哪儿了哪？去了你的胃里。他不是为了食用而发明出来的。你知道，但是这儿，这个陶土锅，它不会被你吃掉，所以这个更好；更安全；更便宜；而且环保。换种说法，穷人的方法不一定是此等的方法也不一定是山寨或简易货
en:Look at this.It looks like a beautiful photograph.But you know what it is? Can anybody guess what it is?Somebody from India would know, of course.It&#39;s a tawa.It&#39;s a hot plate made of clay.Now, what is the beauty in it?When you have a non-stick pan,it costs about,maybe, 250 rupees,five dollars, six dollars.This is less than a dollarand this is non-stick;it is coated with one of thesefood-grade materials.And the best part is that,while you use a costly non-stick pan,you eat the so-called Teflonor Teflon-like materialbecause after some time the stuff disappears. Where has it gone?It has gone in your stomach. It was not meant for that. (Laughter)You know? But herein this clay hot plate,it will never go into your stomach.So it is better, it is safer;it is affordable, it is energy-efficient.In other words, solutions by the poor people need not be cheaper,need not be, so-called, jugaad, need not be some kind of makeshift arrangement.
时间：13:32
zh-cn:而是更好，更加高效同时必须便宜的东西这就是Mansukh Bhai Prajapati所做的。你为这种锅设计了个手柄。只要1美元，你可以得到一个比这个市场提供个你的更好的选择。这位女士，她发明了一个硬件杀虫剂配方。我们（国家创新基金）帮助她申请了专利谁知道，有些人会申请授权使用这个技术并且开发出满足市场需要的产品，同时她会得到收入。现在，让我说件事。我认为我们需要一个多元发展模型，在这个国家不同的地区和这个世界上不同的地方，大规模的开展，这样可能非常有效率和适当的解决地区的需求。更好的适应地区，就可以更好的扩大效果。
en:They have to be better, they have to be more efficient,they have to be affordable.And that is what Mansukh Bhai Prajapati has done.He has designed this plate with a handle.And now with one dollar,you can afford a better alternativethan the people market is offering you.This lady, she developeda herbal pesticide formulation.We filed the patent for her,the National Innovation Foundation.And who knows? Somebody will license this technologyand develop marketable products,and she would get revenue.Now, let me mention one thing:I think we need a polycentric model of development,where a large number of initiatives in different parts of the country,in different parts of the world,would solve the needs of localityin a very efficient and adaptive manner.Higher the local fit,greater is the chance of scaling up.
时间：14:20
zh-cn:想要扩大，可是先天不足的是要满足当地人的实际需要，一对一的供应是远远不够的为什么有人愿意去调整这个不匹配的事？事情可以扩大，而且已经扩大了。例如，手机：这个国家有4亿部手机。现在，有可能我只使用手机的两个按键，3个功能。他有300个；我付了300；而我只用3个，但是我愿意拥有它，所以这样的模式是可以扩展的。但是如果我一定要找到相对应的，显然，我需要设计不同的手机。我要说的是扩展性不应该成为可持续性的敌人。这个世界上必须要有一个方法是对本地最切实的方案，甚至可以找到办法来鼓励这类方案的出现
en:In the scaling up,there&#39;s an inherent inadequacyto match the needs of the local people,point by point, with the supply that you&#39;re making.So why are people willing to adjust with that mismatch?Things can scale up, and they have scaled up.For example, cell phones: We have 400 million cellphones in this country.Now, it is possible that I use only two buttons on the cellphone,only three options on the cellphone.It has 300 options, I&#39;m paying for 300; I&#39;m using only threebut I&#39;m willing to live with it, therefore it is scaling up.But if I had to get a match to match,obviously, I would need a different design of a cellphone.So what we&#39;re saying is that scalabilityshould not become an enemy of sustainability.There must be a place in the worldfor solutions that are only relevant for a locality,and yet, one can be able to fund them.
时间：15:07
zh-cn:我们已经在所有最伟大的研究的其中一个发现了很多次投资者们会问这个问题—“扩展模型是什么？”—他们只想到一个社区的需求是固定在一个空间和时间的而且那些需求只局限在那个地方，没有法律权力去解放他们，因为他们不属于更大的一个图景。结果你会减少优化你的需求以附和宏观环境或者你被忽略排除在外。著名的长尾模型告诉你小额销售大量的书籍，比如说，只卖出几本仍可以是一个活跃的模型。我们必须找到一个方式使人们可以把各自的智慧集中起来，我们就会投资在这个组合，让不同的发明进入到地方性的少数人当中，同时，这个模型的盈利也会变得清晰起来
en:One of the greatest studies that we&#39;ve been finding isthat many times investors would ask this question —&quot;What is a scalable model?&quot; —as if the need of a community, which is onlylocated in a space and timeand has those needs only located in those places,has no legitimate right to get them for freebecause it&#39;s not part of a larger scale.So either you sub-optimize your needs to a larger scaleor else you remain out.Now, the eminent model, the long-tail modeltells you that small salesof a large number of books, for example,having only a few copies soldcan still be a viable model.And we must find a mechanism wherepeople will pool in the portfolio, will invest in the portfolio,where different innovations will go toa small number of people in their localities,and yet, the overall platform of the model will become viable.
时间：15:50
zh-cn:看看他正在做的事。Saidullahsahib是个了不起的人。70岁的时候，他做了一个非常有创造性的东西。
en:Look at what he is doing.Saidullah Sahib is an amazing man.At the age of 70,he is linking up something very creative.
时间：16:00
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：16:06
zh-cn:Saidullahsahib：我不能再等那艘船了。我必须见到我的爱人。我的绝望使我成为了一个发明家。爱情需要科技的帮助。创新是我妻子的权利，不是吗。我的创新是我生命的激情。我的科技。
en:Saidullah Sahib: I couldn&#39;t wait for the boat.I had to meet my love.My desperation made me an innovator.Even love needs help from technology.Innovation is the light of my wife, Noor.New inventions are the passion of my life.My technology.
时间：16:56
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:02
zh-cn:AG：Saidulluhsahib也是在坚巴兰的莫提哈里的人。伟大的人，但是他仍然需要销售，在这个年纪，用摩托拉着蜂蜜，去赚钱生活因为他不能够说服水上乐园的人，湖人，企业集团里的人。我们也没能说服孟买消防部门的人，而那里几年前刚刚发生过洪水，人们需要步行20公里，涉水，看，你们消防部门应该准备这个，因为你们能够进入那些公共汽车不能走的路，你的交通工具不能去的地方。所以我们要改正这个把它做成一种救援设备的问题，在东印度的洪水中作为销售设备，当你需要运输物资给分散在不同岛上被放逐的人。但是这个主意有个长处；主意有一个长处。
en:AG: Saidulluh Sahib isin Motihari, again in Champaran.Wonderful human being,but he stills sells, at this age,honey on a cycle to earn his livelihood,because we haven&#39;t been able to convince the water park people,the lake people, in [unclear] operations.And we have not been able to convince the fire brigade peoplein Mumbai — where there was a flood a few years agoand people had to walk 20 kilometers, wading in the water —that, look, you should have this cycle in your fire brigade officebecause you can then go to those laneswhere your buses will not go, where your transport will not go.So we have not yet cracked the problemof making it available as a rescue device,as a vending device during the floods in eastern India,when you have to deliver things to peoplein different islandswhere they&#39;re marooned.But the idea has a merit. The idea has a merit.
时间：17:50
zh-cn:Appachan做过些什么？不幸的是，Appachan已经离去。但是她留下了一个信息，一个非常有力量的信息
en:What has Appachan done? Appachan, unfortunately, is no more,but he has left behind a message.A very powerful message
时间：18:00
zh-cn:Appachan：每天我看着世界醒来。
en:Appachan: I watch the world wake up every day.
时间：18:03
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：18:18
zh-cn:那不像是一个椰子掉到了我的头上，我想出的这个主意。没有钱去进行我的研究，我勇攀高峰。现在，他们称我为当地的蜘蛛侠。我的技术。
en:It&#39;s not that a coconut fell on my head,and I came upon this idea.With no money to fund my studies,I scaled new heights.Now, they call me the local Spiderman.My technology.
时间：18:48
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：18:51
zh-cn:AG：你们很多人也许不会发现和相信我们在向世界销售这个产品—我叫它G2G模型，草根到全球。一个马萨诸塞州大学的教授，是动物学系的买了这个梯子因为她想研究树顶端的昆虫种类多样化。而这个设备让她有了从棕榈树上得到大量样本的可能，要不样本数会很少，没有这样的发明，她就得用更大的机器而她的学生要使用这样的机器所以，你看，我们已经站在科学的前沿了。
en:AG: Many of youmight not realize and believethat we have sold this product internationally —what I call a G2G model,grassroots to global.And a professor in the University of Massachusetts,in the zoology department,bought this climber because she wantedto study the insect diversityof the top of the tree canopy.And this device makes it possiblefor her to take samples from a larger number of palms,rather than only a few,because otherwise she had to make a big platformand then climb her [unclear] would climb on that.So, you know, we are advancing the frontiers of science.
时间：19:26
zh-cn:Remya Jose发明了—你可以去Youtube然后查找印度发明家，然后你会发现这些视频。当她只是10年级时候的发明：一台洗衣兼健身机。Mr. Kharai是一个残疾人，他只有1.5尺高。但是它改进了轮椅以帮助他可以自由和敏捷的行动。这个发明来自于河边的平民窟。这个人，Ubirajara先生，我们曾经谈到的，我巴西的朋友，怎么去在中国和巴西扩展这个模型。而且我们特别是在中国有一个非常震撼的网络，但是同时也是在巴西和世界的其他地方。这个前轮的支架，你在其他地方找不到一个一样的。印度和中国有着最多数量的摩托车。但是这个发明发生在巴西。
en:Remya Jose has developed ...you can go to the YouTube and find India Innovatesand then you will find these videos.Innovation by her when she was in class 10th:a washing machine-cum-exercising machine.Mr. Kharai who is a physically challenged person,one and a half foot height, only.But he has modified a two-wheeler so that he can get autonomyand freedom and flexibility.This innovation is from the slums of Rio.And this person, Mr. Ubirajara.We were talking about, my friends in Brazil,how we scale up this model in China and Brazil.And we have a very vibrant network in China, particularly,but also emerging in Brazil and other parts of the world.This stand on the front wheel, you will not find on any cycle.India and China have the largest number of cycles.But this innovation emerged in Brazil.
时间：20:10
zh-cn:重点是，我们不应狭隘，我们不应该那么民族主义的相信只有我们的国家才能有好的主意。不，我们须得用同理心去从穷人那里学习经济性的知识，不管他们在哪。看看这些给予摩托车的发明：喷洒器摩托车，摩托可以由路上的的震动发电。我不能改变路况；但我可以让摩托跑得快点。那就是【不清楚】已经做过的。在南非，我们帮助发明者，我们可以和南非的同事分享这些发明是如何从做苦工的人变成自由的象征。他们改造了这个驴车。它有一个30，40千克重的轴，这是有目的的。把它取下来，这个车就少用一头驴。
en:The point is, none of us should be parochial,none of us should be so nationalistic to believethat all good ideas will come only from our country.No, we have to have the humility to learnfrom knowledge of economically poor people, wherever they are.And look at this whole range of cycle-based innovations:cycle that&#39;s a sprayer, cycle thatgenerates energy from the shocks on the road.I can&#39;t change the condition of the road,but I can make the cycle run faster.That is what Kanak Das has done.And in South Africa,we had taken our innovators,and many of us had gone there share with the colleagues in South Africaas to how innovation can becomea means of liberationfrom the drudgery that people have.And this is a donkey cart which they modified.There&#39;s an axle here, of 30, 40 kg,serving no purpose.Remove it, the cart needs one donkey less.
时间：20:57
zh-cn:这在中国。这个女孩需要呼吸仪器。这3个村民坐下来决定说，“我们怎么延长这个女孩在村中的寿命？”他们和她没有关系，但是他们试着找出答案，我们如何利用洗衣机的水管，他们用一个摩托，他们组装了一个呼吸器。而且这个呼吸器救了她的命，这个发明受到很多人欢迎
en:This is in China. This girl needed a breathing apparatus.These three people in the villagesat down and decided to think,&quot;How do we elongate the life of this girl of our village?&quot;They were not related to her, but they tried to find out,&quot;How can we use ... &quot;They used a cycle, they put together a breathing apparatus.And this breathing apparatus now saved the life,and she&#39;s very welcome.
时间：21:18
zh-cn:我们有各种各样的发明。一辆使用压缩空气的车花费6派萨每公里。Assam，Kanak Gogoi。你在美国或者欧洲都找不到这种车，但是却在印度。现在这位女士，她以前卷线圈来做纱丽一天，18000次，她必须卷线直到生产出两纱丽。7年的挣扎，这是她的儿子所做的。她说，“改变你的职业。”他说，“我不能。这是我唯一知道做的，但是我要发明一个机器，它可以解决你的问题。’这是他在北方邦所完成的缝纫机。这正是我们在可持续技术研究协会（Sristi）经常说的：“给我一个立足点，我可以移动地球。”
en:There&#39;s a whole range of innovations that we have.A car, which runs on compressed airwith six paisa per kilometer.Assam, Kanak Gogoi.And you would not find this car in U.S. or Europe,but this is available in India.Now, this lady, she used to do the winding of the yarnfor Pochampally Saree.In one day, 18,000 times,she had to do this windingto generate two sarees.This is what her son has done after seven years of struggle.She said, &quot;Change your profession.&quot;He said, &quot;I can&#39;t. This is the only thing I know, but I&#39;ll invent a machine,which will solve your problem.&quot;And this is what he did, a sewing machine in Uttar Pradesh.So, this is what SRISTI is saying:&quot;Give me a place to stand, and I will move the world.&quot;
时间：21:58
zh-cn:我要告诉你们我也现在也在孩子中进行创造力的竞争，包括各种各样的事。我们把东西卖到了全世界，从埃塞俄比亚土耳其到美国到任何地方。产品进入了几个市场。这些人的知识使治疗湿疹的Herbavate霜成为可能。这里，一家申请了使用这一草药杀虫剂技术的公司把发明者的照片放在包装上这样使用者每次使用的时候都能看见它，它告诉客户，“你也可以成为一个发明家。如果你有一个主意，发给我们。”总之，想象力重要，知识重要，创新带来变革，动力带来启发而且不仅仅是物质上的动力，还有精神上的动力
en:I will just tell you that we are also doing a competition among childrenfor creativity, a whole range of things.We have sold things all over the world,from Ethiopia to Turkey to U.S. to wherever.Products have gone to the market, a few.These are the people whose knowledge madethis Herbavate cream for eczema possible.And here, a company which licensed this herbal pesticideput a photograph of the innovator on the packingso that every time a user uses it,it asks the user, &quot;You can also be an innovator.If you have an idea, send it back to us.&quot;So, creativity counts, knowledge matters,innovations transform, incentives inspire.And incentives: not just material, but also non-material incentives.
时间：22:35
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：22:37
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
