时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今天我要讲的是我认为的最伟大的一项冒险是人类有史以来为了探求宇宙以及我们在宇宙中的位置的探索。我本身对这个项目的兴趣和激情，开始的相当得偶然。我曾经买过一本书，“宇宙和爱因斯坦博士”是从西雅图的二手书店买来的平装本。买了这本书很多年之后，一次在班加罗尔，我整晚都睡不着，于是我随后翻开这本书，认为它在10分钟之内就会让我睡着。于是我开始读了，结果我一口气从午夜一直读到凌晨5点钟。我完全沉浸在一种强烈的感觉里充满了敬畏和愉悦对于宇宙以及我们凭借现有的能力对宇宙进行的理解。这种感觉到现在都萦绕在我脑海里。
en:I would like to talk todayabout what I think is one of the greatest adventureshuman beings have embarked upon,which is the quest to understand the universeand our place in it.My own interest in this subject, and my passion for it,began rather accidentally.I had bought a copy of this book,&quot;The Universe and Dr. Einstein&quot; —a used paperback from a secondhand bookstore in Seattle.A few years after that, in Bangalore,I was finding it hard to fall asleep one night,and I picked up this book,thinking it would put me to sleep in 10 minutes.And as it happened,I read it from midnight to five in the morning in one shot.And I was left with this intense feelingof awe and exhilarationat the universeand our own ability to understand as much as we do.And that feeling hasn&#39;t left me yet.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:这种感觉是我的导火索它真正的让我改变了我的职业方向让我从一个软件工程师变成了一名科普作者这样我就能参与到充满乐趣的科学事业当中了，我同样得到了与其他人交流科学的乐趣。这样的感受同样也引导我开始了一场朝圣之旅，去真真正正的了解地球，去探究望远镜，探测器，这些人类已经发明创造或者正在研究的设备去探索宇宙更多的细节。正是这种感受，指引我走过了许多地方，比如像，从智利从智利的Atacama沙漠到西伯利亚到过地下矿井无论是日本阿尔卑斯山脉，还是在北美的一直到南极洲甚至进入了南极圈。
en:That feeling was the trigger for meto actually change my career —from being a software engineer to become a science writer —so that I could partake in the joy of science,and also the joy of communicating it to others.And that feeling also led meto a pilgrimage of sorts,to go literally to the ends of the earthto see telescopes, detectors,instruments that people are building, or have built,in order to probe the cosmosin greater and greater detail.So it took me from places like Chile —the Atacama Desert in Chile —to Siberia,to underground minesin the Japanese Alps, in Northern America,all the way to Antarcticaand even to the South Pole.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:今天我非常荣幸跟大家分享一些关于这些行程的故事和图片。在过去的几年里，我基本上在整理这些成果这些英勇无畏的男男女女们他们不断付出，时时刻刻都面临着巨大的危险在极端偏远和艰苦的环境下作业只有这样他们才能收集到来自宇宙的最微小的信号使得我们能够更清楚的了解宇宙。
en:And today I would like to share with yousome images, some stories of these trips.I have been basically spending the last few yearsdocumenting the effortsof some extremely intrepid men and womenwho are putting,literally at times, their lives at stakeworking in some very remote and very hostile placesso that they may gather the faintest signals from the cosmosin order for us to understand this universe.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:首先，我为大家展示的是一张饼状图。我保证这是仅有的一张饼状图在今天整个的演讲里。它会帮助我们了解：今天人类对于宇宙的知识的认识这是现今人类所有的物理学理论都是解释我们所谓的正常物质这些也正是组成我们的物质它们仅仅占到整个宇宙的百分之四天文学家，宇宙学家和物理学家都认为在宇宙中存在着一种暗物质，它占据了宇宙的百分之三十二，另一种物质称之为暗能量，它弥漫在整个时空的结构中，暗能量则占据了宇宙剩下的百分之七十三所以，当我们审视这张饼图的时候可以发现，宇宙的百分之九十六对于我们现有的考察来看都是未知的，或者是知之甚少的。几乎我探究得所有的实验，望远镜设备在某种程度上都是为了研究这个问题那就是：暗物质和暗能量的双生之谜。
en:And I first begin with a pie chart —and I promise this is the only pie chartin the whole presentation —but it sets up the state of our knowledge of the cosmos.All the theories in physics that we have todayproperly explain what is called normal matter —the stuff that we&#39;re all made of —and that&#39;s four percent of the universe.Astronomers and cosmologists and physicists thinkthat there is something called dark matter in the universe,which makes up 23 percent of the universe,and something called dark energy,which permeates the fabric of space-time,that makes up another 73 percent.So if you look at this pie chart, 96 percent of the universe,at this point in our exploration of it,is unknown or not well understood.And most of the experiments, telescopes that I went to seeare in some way addressing this question,these two twin mysteries of dark matter and dark energy.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:首先我要带大家看看一个地下矿井它位于明尼苏达的北部在那里人们正在寻找被称为暗物质的东西之所以选择这里是因为他们发现了一个信号一颗暗物质触动了他们的一个探测器。之所以要到地下需找的原因是如果在地球表面做同样的实验，会被其他的信号干扰比如宇宙射线以及周围的无线电干扰，甚至是人类的身体。你可能不相信，但是我们的身体具有的放射性也足够去影响这项实验了所以这些科学工作者深入到矿井内部去需找一种没有干扰的实验环境使得他们能够监测到暗物质撞击检测器的声音。
en:I will take you first to an underground minein Northern Minnesotawhere people are lookingfor something called dark matter.And the idea here is that they are looking for a signof a dark matter particle hitting one of their detectors.And the reason why they have to go undergroundis that, if you did this experiment on the surface of the Earth,the same experiment would be swamped by signalsthat could be created by things like cosmic rays,ambient radio activity,even our own bodies. You might not believe it,but even our own bodies are radioactive enough to disturb this experiment.So they go deep inside minesto find a kind of environmental silencethat will allow them to hearthe ping of a dark matter particle hitting their detector.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:我去参加了一次实验事实上，你几乎是看不见的因为实验室在完全黑暗的环境下进行的。这是一个被矿工们遗弃了的地下洞穴从1960年开始就废弃了物理学家随后来到这里开始使用它从二十世纪八十年代开始。上个世纪早期的矿工们实际上是靠蜡烛在这里照明的时至今日，大家可以看到矿井内部在深及半尺的地下。这是现今世界上最大的地下实验室之一。寻找暗物质正是他们其中一项任务。
en:And I went to see one of these experiments,and this is actually — you can barely see it,and the reason for that is it&#39;s entirely dark in there —this is a cavern that was left behind by the minerswho left this mine in 1960.And physicists came and started using itsometime in the 1980s.And the miners in the early part of the last centuryworked, literally, in candlelight.And today, you would see this inside the mine,half a mile underground.This is one of the largest underground labs in the world.And, among other things, they&#39;re looking for dark matter.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:还有另外一种需找暗物质的，间接的方法。如果暗物质确实存在在我们的宇宙中，在我们的银河系中，那么这些粒子就会相互撞击从而产生其他我们熟知的粒子。中微子就是其中之一。而且中微子是可以被发现的，通过他们留下的痕迹当他们撞击水分子的时候。中微子撞击水分子是会产生一种蓝光一种飞逝的蓝光，但是通过需要这种蓝光，人们就可以在本质上对中微子进行了解，进而间接的去了解暗物质，正是暗物质创造出出来这些中微子。但是需要大量大量的水才能完成这项实验。大概需要十兆吨的水也就是几乎是十亿吨的水才有机会得到这些中微子。然而在现实世界中，哪里能够得到这么多的水呢？在俄罗斯有一个巨大的水库。
en:There is another way to search for dark matter,which is indirectly.If dark matter exists in our universe,in our galaxy,then these particles should be smashing togetherand producing other particles that we know about —one of them being neutrinos.And neutrinos you can detectby the signature they leavewhen they hit water molecules.When a neutrino hits a water moleculeit emits a kind of blue light,a flash of blue light,and by looking for this blue light,you can essentially understand something about the neutrinoand then, indirectly, something about the dark matterthat might have created this neutrino.But you need very, very large volumes of waterin order to do this.You need something like tens of megatons of water —almost a gigaton of water —in order to have any chance of catching this neutrino.And where in the world would you find such water?Well the Russians have a tank in their own backyard.
时间： 5:05
zh-cn:这就是贝加尔湖。它是世界上最大的湖。全场800千米。约40到50米宽在绝大多数地方，有1至2千米深。现在俄罗斯正在致力于建设探测器，并且将他们沉浸到数千米的湖底。这样他们就能观察这些蓝色的闪光了。这也正是我到达后迎接我的景象这就是贝加尔湖在西伯利亚最冷的寒冬山脉上。湖已经完全结冰了那些黑色的现状斑点大家可以在照片背景中看到的，正是物理学家工作的帐篷。之所以我们必须在冬天工作，是因为他们没有在夏天和春天工作足够的资金。如果在春夏工作，那么他们就需要船和潜水艇来辅助工作。所以他们只能能到冬天湖完全结冰后他们就可以利用这些几米厚的冰这样他们就可以在冰上建帐篷来工作了
en:This is Lake Baikal.It is the largest lake in the world. It&#39;s 800 km long.It&#39;s about 40 to 50 km widein most places,and one to two kilometers deep.And what the Russians are doingis they&#39;re building these detectorsand immersing them about a kilometer beneath the surface of the lakeso that they can watch for these flashes of blue light.And this is the scene that greeted me when I landed there.This is Lake Baikalin the peak of the Siberian winter.The lake is entirely frozen.And the line of black dotsthat you see in the background,that&#39;s the ice camp where the physicists are working.The reason why they have to work in winteris because they don&#39;t have the money to work in summer and spring,which, if they did that,they would need ships and submersibles to do their work.So they wait until winter —the lake is completely frozen over —and they use this meter-thick iceas a platform on which to establish their ice camp and do their work.
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:这就是在冰上工作的俄罗斯人在西伯利亚冬天的山脉上。他们必须在冰上钻洞，跳进水中，极冷极冷的水中，去找到水中的设备，并且将其取出，他们需要去完成所有的维护和修养工作，而且要在冰融化之前将其刚回去，再取出来。然而这些坚冰只能持续两个月之后就会全部开化。大家可以想象一下，这里就变成一个像海一样的湖了水面下波涛汹涌。至今我仍旧不能理解一个俄罗斯人他居然可以裸着上身工作，但是这正给大家展示了他工作得多么努力。然而，就是这么几个人，已经工作了近20年。需找这些可能存在也可能不存在的粒子。然而他们却倾注了他们全部的生命。只是请大家想一想，在超过20年的时间里，他们仅花费了2千万，这样的条件是非常艰苦的。他们的预算是极其有限的。他们的厕所就是在冰上直接钻一个洞，再在洞上简单的搭建一个木头棚子。然而就是这么简单的设施，他们每年都要依靠这些工作，
en:So this is the Russians working on the icein the peak of the Siberian winter.They have to drill holes in the ice,dive down into the water — cold, cold water —to get hold of the instrument, bring it up,do any repairs and maintenance that they need to do,put it back and get out before the ice melts.Because that phase of solid ice lasts for two monthsand it&#39;s full of cracks.And you have to imagine, there&#39;s an entire sea-like lakeunderneath, moving.I still don&#39;t understand this one Russian manworking in his bare chest,but that tells you how hard he was working.And these people, a handful of people,have been working for 20 years,looking for particles that may or may not exist.And they have dedicated their lives to it.And just to give you an idea,they have spent 20 million over 20 years.It&#39;s very harsh conditions.They work on a shoestring budget.The toilets there are literally holes in the groundcovered with a wooden shack.And it&#39;s that basic,but they do this every year.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:从西伯利亚一直到智利的阿塔卡马沙漠，去观察一种巨型望远镜。巨型望远镜这个名字是这些天文学家取得，他们给自己的望远镜命名，总是这么没有创造性，我可以告诉你他们下面正在准备建设的望远镜就叫：超巨型望远镜。（笑声）而且大家一定不会相信，然后在那之后要建的望远镜就叫：极端巨大望远镜。然而，它确实是一项非常神奇的工程。由4个8.2米得望远镜做成的。除了其他的一些目的，这些望远镜是被用于研究宇宙是如何随着时间扩张的。越多的理解这一点，就会越好的理解暗物质是什么-宇宙是什么构成的—所有的关于这些的问题。
en:From Siberia to the Atacama Desert in Chile,to see something called The Very Large Telescope.The Very Large Telescopeis one of these things that astronomers do —they name their telescopes rather unimaginatively.I can tell you for a fact,that the next one that they&#39;re planning is called The Extremely Large Telescope.(Laughter)And you wouldn&#39;t believe it,but the one after that is going to be called The Overwhelmingly Large Telescope.But nonetheless,it&#39;s an extraordinary piece of engineering.These are four 8.2 meter telescopes.And these telescopes, among other things,they&#39;re being used to studyhow the expansion of the universe is changing with time.And the more you understand that,the better you would understandwhat this dark energy that the universe is made of is all about.
时间： 7:46
zh-cn:我想给大家真是的就是这项工程中的一部分就是这个望远镜的镜面。一共有四个镜面，每一个镜面都是有一块单独的玻璃制成，材料是巨大的高科技陶制品，已经被抛光、打磨到非常精确的地步唯一可以理解这种精确的方式就是想象一个像巴黎一样的城市，拥有巴黎所有的建筑包括埃菲尔铁塔，如果按照这种精度去研磨巴黎，会得到一毫米厚的沉淀物，这样的打磨就是这些镜面所承受的精度。令人叹为观止的一组望远镜。这是另外的一个望远镜的图像。至于一定要建造这些望远镜在想Atacama沙漠这样的地方的原因是因为这里是高纬度的沙漠地带。干燥的空气对望远镜的观测是很有好处的，同时，在高山地区的云层覆盖率也也比较低的。这样这些望远镜就有大约300天的晴天来观测了。
en:And one piece of engineering that I want to leave you withas regards this telescopeis the mirror.Each mirror, there are four of them,is made of a single piece of glass,a monolithic piece of high-tech ceramic,that has been ground down and polished to such accuracythat the only way to understand what that isis [to] imagine a city like Paris,with all its buildings and the Eiffel Tower,if you grind down Paris to that kind of accuracy,you would be left with bumps that are one millimeter high.And that&#39;s the kind of polishing that these mirrors have endured.An extraordinary set of telescopes.Here&#39;s another view of the same.The reason why you have to build these telescopesin places like the Atacama Desertis because of the high altitude desert.The dry air is really good for telescopes,and also, the cloud cover is below the summit of these mountainsso that the telescopes haveabout 300 days of clear skies.
时间： 8:40
zh-cn:最后，我想让大家看看南极洲。我想把今天大家的时间都用在地球的这个地方。这里是宇宙的终极边境。世界上好多最奇妙的实验最极端的实验都是在南极洲展开的。我在那里参观了一项名为长续航时间的气球飞行实验，气球带着望远镜等设备一路飞往上层大气空间，一直到平流层40千米以上的位置。就是在这里他们展开实验的，在这之后，气球的有效负荷会降低，然后下落。最终将会降落在南极洲的罗斯冰架。那就是美国的C-17货机就是它载着我们从新西兰飞往南极洲的麦克默多的。就是在这里，我们换乘了我们的巴士。我不确定大家是否能看到车上的字母，但是我可以告诉大家，上面写的是：“地狱区间巴士。”就是它把我们带去了麦克默多。
en:Finally, I want to take you to Antarctica.I want to spend most of my time on this part of the world.This is cosmology&#39;s final frontier.Some of the most amazing experiments,some of the most extreme experiments,are being done in Antarctica.I was there to view something called a long-duration balloon flight,which basically takes telescopes and instrumentsall the way to the upper atmosphere,the upper stratosphere, 40 km up.And that&#39;s where they do their experiments,and then the balloon, the payload, is brought down.So this is us landing on the Ross Ice Shelf in Antarctica.That&#39;s an American C-17 cargo planethat flew us from New Zealandto McMurdo in Antarctica.And here we are about to board our bus.And I don&#39;t know if you can read the lettering,but it says, &quot;Ivan the Terribus.&quot;And that&#39;s taking us to McMurdo.
时间： 9:29
zh-cn:这就是到达麦克默多时迎接你的情景。你几乎无法辨认出这就是小屋。这个小屋是由Rovert Falcom Scott和他的助手在他们第一次到达南极洲的时候第一次准备向南极圈进发的时候建造的。因为这里实在是太寒冷了，小屋里的东西他们全部留了下来，他们最后几餐的剩饭仍旧被冰冻在这里。这是一个极端的地方。这就是麦克默多.每年夏天大于有一千个人在这里工作。冬天大约有200人届时这里将迎来6个月的连续黑暗。
en:And this is the scene that greets you in McMurdo.And you barely might be able to make outthis hut here.This hut was built by Robert Falcon Scott and his menwhen they first came to Antarcticaon their first expedition to go to the South Pole.Because it&#39;s so cold,the entire contents of that hut is still as they left it,with the remnants of the last meal they cooked still there.It&#39;s an extraordinary place.This is McMurdo itself. About a thousand people work here in summer,and about 200 in winterwhen it&#39;s completely dark for six months.
时间：10:00
zh-cn:我在这里观看了这个特殊设备的发射。这是一个宇宙射线实验实验器材将被一路发射到平流层上层海拔40千米的地方。我想让大家想象一下的是，这些设备有两吨重。然而需要用气球去承载这些两顿重的设备并且一直送达至海拔40千米的地方。所有的工程师，技术人员和物理学家全部集中到罗斯冰架。而不是集中到南极洲，我就不解释具体原因了但是它是这些气球起飞的最佳地点，除了天气外。至于天气，大家可以想象一下，现在这里是夏天，人们仍旧站在200英尺厚的冰层上。而且后面还有火山，在火上口还有冰川覆盖，他们必须要做的是一定要集合气球里的所有设备包括所有的组织物，降落伞，一切一切。在冰上。然后用氢气填满气球。整个过程需要近2个小时。
en:I was here to see the launchof this particular type of instrument.This is a cosmic ray experimentthat has been launched all the way to the upper-stratosphereto an altitude of 40 km.What I want you to imagine is this is two tons in weight.So you&#39;re using a balloonto carry something that is two tonsall the way to an altitude of 40 km.And the engineers, the technicians, the physicistshave all got to assemble on the Ross Ice Shelf,because Antarctica — I won&#39;t go into the reasons why —but it&#39;s one of the most favorable places for doing these balloon launches,except for the weather.The weather, as you can imagine,this is summer, and you&#39;re standing on 200 ft of ice.And there&#39;s a volcano behind,which has glaciers at the very top.And what they have to dois they have to assemble the entire balloon —the fabric, parachute and everything — on the iceand then fill it up with helium.And that process takes about two hours.
时间：10:53
zh-cn:然而，天气因素会影响他们整个组装的进度。比如，这里他们正躺在气球织物的后面，事实上他们马上就要给气球填补氢气了。大家看到的两辆离他们很远的卡车每一台都装载了12箱压缩氢气。现在，以防在起飞前天气有所变化，他们必须把所有的东西全部打包装起了。并且把它们都带到McMrudo站去。正是因为这个特殊的气球可以承载两顿的重量，这个气球是特别巨大的。气球的组成物自己就有两顿重。为了尽可能的降低重量，它是非常薄的，几乎就跟三明治包装纸那么薄。然而如果他们要把它打包，就必须将其放入盒子中，并且重新将盒子粘贴好。除了他们第一次做的时候，是在德克萨斯。在那里，他们不能穿着他们巨大的鞋子来做它，所以他们把鞋子全部脱掉了，赤脚进去了寒冷的箱子来完成这项工作。这就是这些人具有的献身精神。
en:And the weather can change as they&#39;re putting together this whole assembly.For instance, here they are laying down the balloon fabric behind,which is eventually going to be filled up with helium.Those two trucks you see at the very endcarry 12 tanks each of compressed helium.Now, in case the weather changes before the launch,they have to actually pack everything back up into their boxesand take it out back to McMurdo Station.And this particular balloon,because it has to launch two tons of weight,is an extremely huge balloon.The fabric alone weighs two tons.In order to minimize the weight,it&#39;s very thin, it&#39;s as thin as a sandwich wrapper.And if they have to pack it back,they have to put it into boxesand stamp on it so that it fits into the box again —except, when they did it first,it would have been done in Texas.Here, they can&#39;t do it with the kind shoes they&#39;re wearing,so they have to take their shoes off,get barefoot into the boxes, in this cold,and do that kind of work.That&#39;s the kind of dedication these people have.
时间：11:52
zh-cn:这是气球已经装满氢气了，大家可以看到它真的很美这一景象向大家展示了气球和承载物的所有情况。气球已经被从左侧填满了氢气气球的组织物一直连接到气球的中部在那有一片电子控制器和爆炸装置，用来连接降落伞，而降落伞则连接到有效承载物上。请大家记住，所有这些都是已经被完成了的而且是在零度以下的极寒气温中被完成的。他们都穿着重达15公斤的衣服和工具，但是他们还要脱掉手套去完成一部分工作。我非常荣幸可以和大家分享气球起飞的时刻。
en:Here&#39;s the balloon being filled up with helium,and you can see it&#39;s a gorgeous sight.Here&#39;s a scenethat shows you the balloon and the payload end-to-end.So the balloon is being filled up with helium on the left-hand side,and the fabric actually runs all the way to the middlewhere there&#39;s a piece of electronics and explosivesbeing connected to a parachute,and then the parachute is then connected to the payload.And remember, all this wiring is being doneby people in extreme cold, in sub-zero temperatures.They&#39;re wearing about 15 kg of clothing and stuff,but they have to take their gloves off in order to do that.And I would like to share with you a launch.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:（视频）对讲机：好的，释放气球，释放气球，释放气球。
en:(Video) Radio: Okay, release the balloon,release the balloon, release the balloon.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:Anil Ananthaswamy：最后呢，我想跟大家分享两张图片。这是我在印度的拉达克地区观看到的喜马拉雅山脉。我希望大家能看到的在右手边的正是望远镜。在最左边的地方，是一座大约400年前的佛教寺庙。这是寺庙的近景图片。我被这景象震惊了并排的两个人类伟大的创造。一个是用来探索外太空的宇宙，一个是用来探究我们人类的内在。二者都需要一份宁静的力量。
en:Anil Ananthaswamy: And I&#39;ll finally like to leave you with two images.This is an observatory in the Himalayas, in Ladakh in India.And the thing I want you to look at hereis the telescope on the right-hand side.And on the far left thereis a 400 year-old Buddhist monastery.This is a close-up of the Buddhist monastery.And I was struck by the juxtapositionof these two enormous disciplines that humanity has.One is exploring the cosmos on the outside,and the other one is exploring our interior being.And both require silence of some sort.
时间：13:30
zh-cn:而真正使我震惊的是，我在每一个地方看到的这些望远镜，天文学家，宇宙学者，都在寻求这样的一份宁静。无论是排除电波的干扰还是光的污染或者一切其他的影响。如此清晰的是，如果我们破坏了地球上这些宁静的地方，我们就会被困在一个永远丧失探究外面世界的力量的局面里。因为那样我们就失去了理解外层宇宙空间信号的能力。
en:And what struck me wasevery place that I went to to see these telescopes,the astronomers and cosmologistsare in search of a certain kind of silence,whether it&#39;s silence from radio pollutionor light pollution or whatever.And it was very obviousthat, if we destroy these silent places on Earth,we will be stuck on a planet without the ability to look outwards,because we will not be able to understand the signals that come from outer space.
时间：13:53
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：13:55
zh-cn:（掌声）。
en:(Applause)
