时间： 0:11
zh-cn:2007年，我担任了新泽西州的司法部长。在那之前，我曾是一名刑事检察官，先是在曼哈顿地区检查官办公室，后来是在国家司法部。
en:In 2007, I became the attorney generalof the state of New Jersey.Before that, I&#39;d been a criminal prosecutor,first in the Manhattan district attorney&#39;s office,and then at the United States Department of Justice.
时间： 0:23
zh-cn:但是在担任司法部长之后，发生了两件事让我改变了对刑事司法的看法第一个是我提出我所认为的很基本的问题。我想要了解我们逮捕的是什么人，我们指控的是什么人，还有我们是将什么样的人关进看守所和监狱。我也想要了解我们所做的决定是否会让民众更加安全。但我无法获取这类信息原来多数大型刑事司法机构就像我工作的地方他们并没有对真正重要的事情进行持续的跟踪调查和记录。所以经历了约一个月的异常沮丧之后，我走进一个会议室满屋都是探员和成堆成堆的案件档案，探员们坐在那里用黄色便笺簿作着笔记。他们试图获取的信息就是我一直在寻找的通过逐个分析过去的五年间的所有案件。你可以想象我们终于得出的结果并不是很理想。原来我们一直在做很多低级的毒品案件就在拐角处的街道上离我们在特伦顿的办公室不远。
en:But when I became the attorney general,two things happened that changed the way I see criminal justice.The first is that I asked what I thoughtwere really basic questions.I wanted to understand who we were arresting,who we were charging,and who we were putting in our nation&#39;s jailsand prisons.I also wanted to understandif we were making decisionsin a way that made us safer.And I couldn&#39;t get this information out.It turned out that most big criminal justice agencieslike my owndidn&#39;t track the things that matter.So after about a month of being incredibly frustrated,I walked down into a conference roomthat was filled with detectivesand stacks and stacks of case files,and the detectives were sitting therewith yellow legal pads taking notes.They were trying to get the informationI was looking forby going through case by casefor the past five years.And as you can imagine,when we finally got the results, they weren&#39;t good.It turned out that we were doinga lot of low-level drug caseson the streets just around the cornerfrom our office in Trenton.
时间： 1:29
zh-cn:第二件事是我在卡姆登的新泽西州警察局耗了一天。当时，新泽西州的卡姆登是美国最危险的城市。我跑了一趟卡姆登警察局就是因为这个原因。我在警察局待了一整天，被带到了一个高级警官待的房间，那里所有人都在努力工作并很努力的试图减少卡姆登的犯罪活动在那个房间里，当我们谈到如何减少犯罪，有很多拿着小小的黄色便笺的警官。他们会揭下一张黄色便笺，在上面写点东西然后把它贴在板儿上。其中一个警官说，“我们有一宗劫案发生在两个星期前但没发现疑犯。”另一个说：“上周在这附近发生了一场枪击事件,没发现疑犯”我们未曾使用过数据分析来维持治安。我们基本上在试图用黄色便利签打击犯罪。
en:The second thing that happenedis that I spent the day in the Camden,New Jersey police department.Now, at that time, Camden, New Jersey,was the most dangerous city in America.I ran the Camden PoliceDepartment because of that.I spent the day in the police department,and I was taken into a roomwith senior police officials,all of whom were working hardand trying very hard to reduce crime in Camden.And what I saw in that room,as we talked about how to reduce crime,were a series of officers with alot of little yellow sticky notes.And they would take a yellow stickyand they would write something on itand they would put it up on a board.And one of them said, &quot;We had a robbery two weeks ago.We have no suspects.&quot;And another said, &quot;We had a shooting in this neighborhood last week. We have no suspects.&quot;We weren&#39;t using data-driven policing.We were essentially trying to fight crimewith yellow Post-it notes.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:这两件事让我意识到从根本上说，我们过去一直表现欠佳。我们甚至不知道有谁涉及到刑事犯罪，我们没有相关重要事件的任何数据，我们未曾共享数据，使用分析技术或分析工具，以帮助我们做出更好地判断并减少犯罪。我第一次开始思考我们是如何作出决定的。当我还是助理地方检察官，和联邦检察官的时候，我看着面前的那些案件，我所做出的决定通常是依据我的直觉和我的经验。后来我成为司法部长，我可以全面的观察整个司法系统令人吃惊的是我发现我们的这种做法恰恰适用于整个司法系统 — —警察部门，检察官办公室，法庭和监狱。很快，我了解到我们过去的工作成果并不令人满意。所以我想做些改变。我想将数据、逻辑分析和严格的统计分析纳入到我们的工作。总之，我想在刑事司法上做到点球成金。
en:Now, both of these things made me realizefundamentally that we were failing.We didn&#39;t even know who wasin our criminal justice system,we didn&#39;t have any data aboutthe things that mattered,and we didn&#39;t share data or use analyticsor tools to help us make better decisionsand to reduce crime.And for the first time, I started to thinkabout how we made decisions.When I was an assistant D.A.,and when I was a federal prosecutor,I looked at the cases in front of me,and I generally made decisions based on my instinctand my experience.When I became attorney general,I could look at the system as a whole,and what surprised me is that I foundthat that was exactly how we were doing itacross the entire system —in police departments, in prosecutors&#39;s offices,in courts and in jails.And what I learned very quicklyis that we weren&#39;t doing a good job.So I wanted to do things differently.I wanted to introduce data and analyticsand rigorous statistical analysisinto our work.In short, I wanted to moneyball criminal justice.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:正如大家所知，点球成金，是奥克兰运动家棒球队的方法，他们使用了智能数据和统计学找出如何挑选球员的办法这将有助于他们赢得比赛，依据一个由棒球侦查员组成的系统他们频繁的观察球员的表现利用他们的直觉和经验，侦查员的直觉和经验，挑选球员，通过使用智能数据和严格的统计分析找出挑选球员的办法，这会帮助他们赢得比赛。
en:Now, moneyball, as many of you know,is what the Oakland A&#39;s did,where they used smart data and statisticsto figure out how to pick playersthat would help them win games,and they went from a system that was based on baseball scoutswho used to go out and watch playersand use their instinct and experience,the scouts&#39; instincts and experience,to pick players, from one to usesmart data and rigorous statistical analysisto figure out how to pick playersthat would help them win games.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:奥克兰运动家棒球队就是这样运作的，这对新泽西州也是适用的。我们已经将卡姆登从美国最危险的城市的名单中剔除。我们减少了41%的谋杀率，实际上相当于拯救了37条生命。整个城市的犯罪行为减少了26%。我们也改变了刑事诉讼的工作方式。所以我们从调查低级毒品犯罪案件它们就发生在办公大楼外面转移到调查全州范围内的重要案件，比如减少暴力罪犯的暴力行为，起诉街头帮派，枪支和毒品的不法交易，还有政治腐败。
en:It worked for the Oakland A&#39;s,and it worked in the state of New Jersey.We took Camden off the top of the listas the most dangerous city in America.We reduced murders there by 41 percent,which actually means 37 lives were saved.And we reduced all crime in the city by 26 percent.We also changed the waywe did criminal prosecutions.So we went from doing low-level drug crimesthat were outside our buildingto doing cases of statewide importance,on things like reducing violencewith the most violent offenders,prosecuting street gangs,gun and drug trafficking, and political corruption.
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:所有这些事项都很重要，因为我认为，保证公共安全是政府最重要的职能。如果人身安全无法保证，我们就不能接受教育，就不能保持身体健康，就不能做生活中想要做的任何事。今天我们生活的国家面临着严重的刑事司法问题。我们每年有1200 万起拘捕行动。绝大多数的拘捕行动是针对低级的犯罪行为，像轻罪，这些占据了70%至80%。不到5%的拘捕行动是针对暴力犯罪。然而，我们每年花费750亿美元，以十亿为单位，作为国家和地方的修正成本。此时此刻，有230万人被监禁在看守所和监狱里。我们在公共安全方面面临着惊人的挑战因为现在的形势是监狱中有三分之二的人在那里等待审判。他们至今还没有被判定有罪。他们一直等着出庭受审，其中有67%的人会重返社会。我们是世界上累犯率最高的国家之一。几乎每释放10个人就有7个将会再次被逮捕这是一个恒定的犯罪和监禁的周期。
en:And all of this matters greatly,because public safety to meis the most important function of government.If we&#39;re not safe, we can&#39;t be educated,we can&#39;t be healthy,we can&#39;t do any of the other thingswe want to do in our lives.And we live in a country todaywhere we face serious criminal justice problems.We have 12 million arrests every single year.The vast majority of those arrestsare for low-level crimes, like misdemeanors,70 to 80 percent.Less than five percent of all arrestsare for violent crime.Yet we spend 75 billion,that&#39;s b for billion,dollars a year on state and local corrections costs.Right now, today, we have 2.3 million peoplein our jails and prisons.And we face unbelievable public safety challengesbecause we have a situationin which two thirds of the people in our jailsare there waiting for trial.They haven&#39;t yet been convicted of a crime.They&#39;re just waiting for their day in court.And 67 percent of people come back.Our recidivism rate is amongst the highest in the world.Almost seven in 10 people who are releasedfrom prison will be rearrestedin a constant cycle of crime and incarceration.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:所以，当我开始在阿诺德基金会工作时，回头看了很多这类问题，重新思考了我们怎样利用数据和分析转变了新泽西州的刑事司法。后来我注意到当今国家的刑事司法系统，我觉得应使用同样的方法即首先在新泽西州使用的那种方法，毫无疑问我们要做得更好，而且我知道我们可以做得更好。
en:So when I started my job at the Arnold Foundation,I came back to looking at a lot of these questions,and I came back to thinking about howwe had used data and analytics to transformthe way we did criminal justice in New Jersey.And when I look at the criminal justice systemin the United States today,I feel the exact same way that I didabout the state of New Jersey when I started there,which is that we absolutely have to do better,and I know that we can do better.
时间： 6:03
zh-cn:所以我决定将重点集中在使用数据和分析以帮助作出最关键的判断在公共安全方面，这一决定是判断已经被逮捕的某个人，是否会对公共安全构成风险而被拘留还是不会对公共安全造成风险应被释放。刑事案件中发生的一切都出自这一决定。它影响了全局。它影响了判刑。它影响到是否有人需要药物治疗。它影响了犯罪和暴力行为。当我同全美众多法官交谈时，我现在无时无刻不在做这件事，他们都说着同样的话，我们把危险的人关进监狱，把没有危险的人、非暴力的人放出去。他们是认真的，他们相信自己所做的。但当你开始查看那些数据，顺便提一句，那些法官没看过，当我们开始查看数据，我们一次又一次的发现，这不是个案。我们发现，占刑事司法总人数的50%的低风险罪犯被关在监狱里。举个例子，莱斯利丘是德克萨斯州人在一个寒冷的冬夜偷了四个毯子。他被拘捕，然后被关进监狱需要三千五百美元保释金，这是一笔他支付不起的金额。他在监狱里呆了八个月直到他的案子开庭，共花了纳税人9,000 多美元税款。在另一个极端，我们所做的工作也同样糟糕，那些我们抓获的高危险罪犯，那些被认为一旦释放会有极高的可能性再次犯罪的人，在全国范围内，其中的50%正在回归社会。
en:So I decided to focuson using data and analyticsto help make the most critical decisionin public safety,and that decision is the determinationof whether, when someone has been arrested,whether they pose a risk to public safetyand should be detained,or whether they don&#39;t pose a risk to public safetyand should be released.Everything that happens in criminal casescomes out of this one decision.It impacts everything.It impacts sentencing.It impacts whether someone gets drug treatment.It impacts crime and violence.And when I talk to judges around the United States,which I do all the time now,they all say the same thing,which is that we put dangerous people in jail,and we let non-dangerous, nonviolent people out.They mean it and they believe it.But when you start to look at the data,which, by the way, the judges don&#39;t have,when we start to look at the data,what we find time and time again,is that this isn&#39;t the case.We find low-risk offenders,which makes up 50 percent of ourentire criminal justice population,we find that they&#39;re in jail.Take Leslie Chew, who was a Texas manwho stole four blankets on a cold winter night.He was arrested, and he was kept in jailon 3,500 dollars bail,an amount that he could not afford to pay.And he stayed in jail for eight monthsuntil his case came up for trial,at a cost to taxpayers of more than 9,000 dollars.And at the other end of the spectrum,we&#39;re doing an equally terrible job.The people who we findare the highest-risk offenders,the people who we think have the highest likelihoodof committing a new crime if they&#39;re released,we see nationally that 50 percent of those peopleare being released.
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:是我们做决定的方式导致的这种结果。法官怀着善意做出这些有风险的决定，但，是主观的决定。他们就像20 年前的棒球侦查员他们凭本能和经验试着去判断某个人制造的危险。他们是主观的，我们知道主观决策会导致什么，那就是我们常常犯错。我们需要的是有力的数据和分析。
en:The reason for this is the way we make decisions.Judges have the best intentionswhen they make these decisions about risk,but they&#39;re making them subjectively.They&#39;re like the baseball scouts 20 years agowho were using their instinct and their experienceto try to decide what risk someone poses.They&#39;re being subjective,and we know what happenswith subjective decision making,which is that we are often wrong.What we need in this spaceare strong data and analytics.
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:我决定寻找一个有力的数据分析的风险评估工具，这个工具会让法官以科学的客观的方式去了解什么样的风险摆在他们面前。我找遍了全国，发现5%至10%的美国管辖区域实际使用了某些类型的风险评估工具，我查看了这些评估工具之后，很快意识到其中缘由。它们应用起来非常昂贵，非常耗时，它们被限制在地方管辖区域因为它们就出自那里。因此，基本上，它们不能扩展或转移到其他地方。
en:What I decided to look forwas a strong data and analytic risk assessment tool,something that would let judges actually understandwith a scientific and objective waywhat the risk was that was posedby someone in front of them.I looked all over the country,and I found that between five and 10 percentof all U.S. jurisdictionsactually use any type of risk assessment tool,and when I looked at these tools,I quickly realized why.They were unbelievably expensive to administer,they were time-consuming,they were limited to the local jurisdictionin which they&#39;d been created.So basically, they couldn&#39;t be scaledor transferred to other places.
时间： 8:48
zh-cn:所以我组建了一个出色的团队由数据科学家和研究人员还有统计人员组成建立一个通用的风险评估工具，这样一来，全美的每一个法官都可以做一个客观、科学的风险评估。在这个已经建立的这个工具里，我们收集了150 万个案件来自美国各地，包括城市，县，国内的每个州，联邦区。有了那150 万个案例，这是美国审判前最大的数据库截止到今天，我们基本上能够找到我们可以查看的九百多个危险因素试着找出最重要的问题。我们发现具体有九件事在全国范围内都很重要是可预测的最高风险。于是我们建立了一种通用的风险评估工具。它看起来就像这个。正如你所看到的，我们把一些信息列在上面，但大多数都格外简单，它使用起来很容易，它侧重的方面是被告的前科，他们是否曾被判处监禁，他们是否曾被卷入过暴力事件，他们是否甚至没能回到法庭。使用此工具，我们可以预测三件事。第一，他们是否会再次犯罪如果被释放的话。第二，我第一次觉得，这一点非常重要，我们可以预测他们是否会进行暴力活动，如果被释放的话。法官说这是最重要的一件事当你向他们问话的时候。第三，我们可以预测是否他们会回到法庭。美国的任何一名法官都可以使用它，因为它是由通用的数据库制成的。
en:So I went out and built a phenomenal teamof data scientists and researchersand statisticiansto build a universal risk assessment tool,so that every single judge inthe United States of Americacan have an objective, scientific measure of risk.In the tool that we&#39;ve built,what we did was we collected 1.5 million casesfrom all around the United States,from cities, from counties,from every single state in the country,the federal districts.And with those 1.5 million cases,which is the largest data set on pretrialin the United States today,we were able to basically find that there were900-plus risk factors that we could look atto try to figure out what mattered most.And we found that there were nine specific thingsthat mattered all across the countryand that were the most highly predictive of risk.And so we built a universal risk assessment tool.And it looks like this.As you&#39;ll see, we put some information in,but most of it is incredibly simple,it&#39;s easy to use,it focuses on things like thedefendant&#39;s prior convictions,whether they&#39;ve been sentenced to incarceration,whether they&#39;ve engaged in violence before,whether they&#39;ve even failed to come back to court.And with this tool, we can predict three things.First, whether or not someone will commita new crime if they&#39;re released.Second, for the first time,and I think this is incredibly important,we can predict whether someone will commitan act of violence if they&#39;re released.And that&#39;s the single most important thingthat judges say when you talk to them.And third, we can predict whether someonewill come back to court.And every single judge in theUnited States of America can use it,because it&#39;s been created on a universal data set.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:如果他们使用了这个风险评估工具你就会看到这个—一个评分板。在顶部的，是新的刑事犯罪活动评分，六当然是最高分，然后在中间你可以看到“增长的暴力风险”说的是，这个人进行暴力行为的概率有所升高这是法官应该注意的重点。然后在底部，你看到的是未能出庭的分数，这也是判断此人会回到法庭的可能性。
en:What judges see if they run the risk assessment toolis this — it&#39;s a dashboard.At the top, you see the New Criminal Activity Score,six of course being the highest,and then in the middle yousee, &quot;Elevated risk of violence.&quot;What that says is that this personis someone who has an elevated risk of violencethat the judge should look twice at.And then, towards the bottom,you see the Failure to Appear Score,which again is the likelihoodthat someone will come back to court.
时间：10:50
zh-cn:现在我想说些非常重要的事。我不认为应该排除法官的直觉和经验在整个过程中。我不这样想。事实上，我相信我们看到的问题以及系统内出现令人难以置信的错误的原因，也就是我们关押低级、非暴力的人我们释放高风险的、危险的人的原因，是因为我们没有客观的衡量风险。但我相信我们应该将这种数据驱动的风险评估与法官的直觉和经验相结合会使我们做出更好的决策。该评估工具于7月1日在肯塔基州全面推行，我们还要在许多其他美国司法管辖区内推行。我们的目标很简单，就是让全美的每一个法官都能使用这种数据驱动的风险评估工具在未来五年内实现。我们现在正在研究风险工具以便检察官和警官使用，想要把过去50年不变的系统继续运行下去，基于直觉和经验，并把它变成一种运用数据分析的系统。
en:Now I want to say something really important.It&#39;s not that I think we should be eliminatingthe judge&#39;s instinct and experiencefrom this process.I don&#39;t.I actually believe the problem that we seeand the reason that we havethese incredible system errors,where we&#39;re incarceratinglow-level, nonviolent peopleand we&#39;re releasing high-risk, dangerous people,is that we don&#39;t have an objective measure of risk.But what I believe should happenis that we should take thatdata-driven risk assessmentand combine that with thejudge&#39;s instinct and experienceto lead us to better decision making.The tool went statewide in Kentucky on July 1,and we&#39;re about to go up in anumber of other U.S. jurisdictions.Our goal, quite simply, is that every single judgein the United States will use a data-driven risk toolwithin the next five years.We&#39;re now working on risk toolsfor prosecutors and for police officers as well,to try to take a system that runs todayin America the same way it did 50 years ago,based on instinct and experience,and make it into one that runson data and analytics.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:现在，我们仍有大量的工作要做，仍要改变相关文化，但关于这所有一切有个好消息那就是我们知道这很管用。这就是为什么数据成就了谷歌，为什么棒球队会因使用点球成金的方法而打赢比赛。还有一个好消息是我们可以用这种方法转变美国的刑事司法系统。它可以使我们的周边环境更安全，可以减少我们的监狱花销，可以让我们的司法系统更公平更公正。有人说这是数据科学。我称之为点球成金式刑事司法。
en:Now, the great news about all this,and we have a ton of work left to do,and we have a lot of culture to change,but the great news about all of itis that we know it works.It&#39;s why Google is Google,and it&#39;s why all these baseball teams use moneyballto win games.The great news for us as wellis that it&#39;s the way that we can transformthe American criminal justice system.It&#39;s how we can make our streets safer,we can reduce our prison costs,and we can make our system much fairerand more just.Some people call it data science.I call it moneyballing criminal justice.
时间：12:28
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：12:30
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
