时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我欲与你们分享一个故事，它将告诉你们我是如何成为一名艾滋病社运人士。这就是我发起得运动，SING运动。2003年11月，我获邀参加纳尔逊·曼德拉发起得46664基金会的奠基典礼。这也是一个艾滋病基金会。46664则是曼德拉于罗本岛监狱的囚号。在舞台上，与我站一起的则是尤索·恩多我们俩正享受着生命中最辉煌的一刻。第二天，所有到场艺术家皆被邀至罗本岛，以参加曼德拉所举办的新闻发布会，而曼德拉他则站在他以前的囚室窗外。你们还可清晰地看到囚窗上的栅栏。那会，对于我们来说皆是重大时刻。在那时，曼德拉向各国媒体宣告南非正经历一场大屠杀，那有彩虹之国美誉的南非，每天皆有逾千人死亡，而那些亟待救援的人士中，最需要帮助的都是妇孺之辈。
en:I&#39;m going to share with you the storyas to how I have becomean HIV/AIDS campaigner.And this is the name of my campaign: SING Campaign.In November of 2003,I was invited to take partin the launch of Nelson Mandela&#39;s46664 Foundation —that is his HIV/AIDS foundation.And 46664 is the numberthat Mandela had when he was imprisoned in Robben Island.And that&#39;s me with Youssou N&#39;Dour,onstage, having the time of my life.The next day, all the artists were invitedto join Mandela in Robben Island,where he was going to give a conferenceto the world&#39;s press,standing in front of his former prison cell.You can see the bars of the window there.It was quite a momentous occasion for all of us.In that moment in time,Mandela told the world&#39;s pressthat there was a virtual genocidetaking place in his country;that post-apartheidRainbow Nation,a thousand people were dying on a daily basisand that the front line victims,the most vulnerable of all,were women and children.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:这大大地影响了我，因为我也身为女人，也是一位母亲，而我却还未觉察到这场艾滋瘟疫已肆虐到此种地步，能直接影响到女人们的生活。当我离开开普敦，离开南非之时，我作出许诺说：“我将为之奔走告语，为之服务。”随后，我参加了每场我能参加的46664聚会、及各种会议和采访，从而发挥一位歌手所能及的功用，以回应我向曼德拉作出的承诺，因为我敬仰他所做出的伟大业绩。世上无人不敬仰曼德拉。所有人皆尊崇曼德拉。但他们知道曼德拉的故乡南非正饱经病毒侵袭吗？南非的病毒传染率是世界最高的。假若我现在走出这个大堂，随意向一位路人告知南非现状，他会大吃一惊。
en:This was a huge impact on my mind,because I am a woman and I am a mother,and I hadn&#39;t realizedthat the HIV/AIDS pandemicwas directly affecting women in such a way.And so I committed — when I left South Africa,when I left Capetown,I told myself, &quot;This is going to be somethingthat I have to talk about.I have to serve.&quot;And so, subsequentlyI participated in every single46664 eventthat I could take part inand gave news conferences,interviews,talking and using my platform as a musician,with my commitment to Mandela —out of respect for the tremendous,unbelievable work that he had done.Everyone in the world respects Nelson Mandela,everyone reveres Nelson Mandela.But do they all knowabout what has been taking place in South Africa,his country,the country that had one of the highest incidentsof transmission of the virus?I think that if I went out into the street nowand I told people what was happening there,they would be shocked.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:几年之后，我非常有幸地见到了扎基·阿克莫(Zackie Achmat)，他是Treatment Action运动的发起者，他是一位了不起的社运人士及人权活跃分子。我是于一场46664聚会上见到他的。他当时穿的体恤衫与我现在穿的很像。这是一件工具。这件工具告知你们我正和艾滋病患者并肩作战中。由于艾滋病的昭著臭名，我们可以通过穿上这件体恤衫说：“我们当然可以谈论这个话题。它又不是什么见不得人的东西。”我由焉成为Treatment Action运动的一位会员，我为成为这不凡组织的一份子而感到自豪。这是一场草根运动，百分八十的会员皆为女性，大多数皆是艾滋病阳性。但他们仍艰苦劳作。他们与那些患病者有很大面积的接触交往。他们还有教育项目。他们认为艾滋病不该成为人人回避的社会标签。他们所干成的事真是了不起。同时，我的SING运动也支持Treatment Action运动，我们则是通过宣传艾滋病常识及募款来支援他们。我们所募集的款项大部分皆捐给了Treatment Action运动，以支持他们的惊人成就，而他们也准备在南非发起这个运动。
en:I was very, very fortunate a couple of years laterto have met Zackie Achmat,the founder of Treatment Action Campaign,an incredible campaigner and activist.I met him at a 46664 event.He was wearing a t-shirt like the one I wear now.This is a tool —this tells you I am in solidaritywith people who have HIV,people who are living with HIV.And in a way because of the stigma, by wearing this t-shirtI say, &quot;Yes, we can talk about this issue.It doesn&#39;t have to be in the closet.&quot;I became a member of Treatment Action Campaignand I&#39;m very proud to be a memberof that incredible organization.It&#39;s a grassroots campaignwith 80 percent membership being women,most of whom are HIV-positive.They work in the field.They have tremendous outreachto the people who are living directlywith the effects of the virus.They have education programs.They bring out the issues of stigma.It&#39;s quite extraordinary what they do.And yes, my SING Campaignhas supported Treatment Action Campaignin the way that I have tried to raise awarenessand to try to also raise funds.A lot of the funding that I have managed to raisehas gone directly to Treatment Action Campaignand the incredible work that they do,and are still continuing to do in South Africa.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:这就是我的SING运动。SING运动只包括我及三到四位能人，他们都是来帮助我的。我于两年半里环游世界了。我去了十二个国家。这是在挪威奥斯陆，在那里我得获一份慷慨地捐赠，这是在香港开演唱会以募集捐款。这是在约翰内斯堡，我有机会为南非中产阶级白人开演唱会，他们最后都泪流满面，因为演唱会中我放映了一次短影片。这个短影片触摸到了他们内心最柔软的地方，让他们了解到了南非所发生的惨剧，但大多人皆不愿得知，因为他们倦怠了，而且他们也不知道怎么办。亚伦·莫梭累迪也到了这场演唱会，他是南非现任卫生部部长，因此我趁机与他一会，他当场向我作出承诺要改变现状，这正是我们所需的。这是在苏格兰议会里。在此会议后，我成为了苏格兰及艾滋病社运人士的公使。我在那宣扬了我的经历以提高他们的警惕意识。这是在爱丁堡，与我所钟爱的非洲儿童合唱团在一起。其中成员多为孤儿，因他们父母皆被艾滋病感染了。
en:So this is my SING Campaign.SING Campaign is basically just meand about three or four wonderful peoplewho help to support me.I&#39;ve traveled all over the worldin the last two and a half years —I went to about 12 different countries.Here I am in Oslo in Norway,getting a nice, fat check;singing in Hong Kong, trying to get people to raise money.In Johannesburg, I had the opportunity to playto a mainly white, middle-class South African audiencewho ended up in tearsbecause I use film clipsthat really touch the heart, the whole nature,of this terrible tragedy that is taking place,that people are tending to avoid,because they are fatigued,and they really don&#39;t quite know what the solutions are.Aaron Motsoaledi, the current health minister,attended that concertand I had an opportunity to meet with him,and he gave his absolute commitmentto try to making a change,which is absolutely necessary.This is in the Scottish Parliament.I&#39;ve subsequently become an envoyfor Scotland and HIV.And I was showing them my experiencesand trying to, again, raise awareness.And once again, in Edinburghwith the wonderful African Children&#39;s Choir who I simply adore.And it&#39;s children like this, many of whom have been orphanedbecause of their family being affectedby the AIDS virus.
时间： 5:19
zh-cn:这是在纽约，我正和米歇尔·西迪贝(Michel Sidibe)坐一起。他是联合国艾滋病规划署(UNAIDS)执行主任。我为此处邀请而感到光荣，就在几个月前，我成为了联合国艾滋病规划署大使。通过这些方式，我加强了我的影响力，及增强了人们的认知度。联合国艾滋病规划署欲向世界传达的消息则是他们希望能于2015年前看到母婴之间的病毒传播被完全消除。非常有野心的一个目标，但我们相信通过政府参与，我们就能达成目标。这可以发生。
en:I&#39;m sitting here in New York with Michel Sidibe —he&#39;s the director of UNAIDS.And I&#39;m very honoredby the fact that Michel invited me,only a few months ago,to become a UNAIDS ambassador.And in this way, I&#39;ve been strengthening my platformand broadening my outreach.The message that UNAIDSare currently sending out to the worldis that we would like to see the virtual eliminationof the transmission of the virusfrom mother to child by 2015.It&#39;s a very ambitious goalbut we believe it can be achieved with political will.This can happen.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:这是我和一位阳性艾滋病母亲的照片，她怀孕了，但我们皆笑容满面，因为我们确信她能获得治疗以延长她的生命，同时，她的孩子也会被照料。她的孩子会获得艾滋病母婴传播阻断治疗，这意味着孩子生下来将不带有艾滋病病毒。从生命伊始就获得各种保护。这是政府干预这场艾滋病瘟疫的一种方法。
en:And here I am with a pregnant woman,who is HIV positiveand we&#39;re smiling, both of us are smiling, because we&#39;re very confident,because we know that that young womanis receiving treatmentso her life can be extendedto take care of the baby she&#39;s about to give birth to.And her baby will receive PMTCT,which will mean that that babycan be born free of the virus.Now that is preventionat the very beginning of life.It&#39;s one way to start looking at interventionwith the AIDS pandemic.
时间： 6:29
zh-cn:我现在想用另一个故事来结束这场演讲，故事主角是阿维利尔(Avelile)。这位就是阿维利尔。她与我同在。我将她的故事告知给所有人，因为她就是千千万的艾滋病孤儿代表。阿维利尔的母亲是携有艾滋病病毒。她因艾滋病并发症而死。阿维利尔也有艾滋病病毒。她一生下来就有。这就是她七岁时的照片，她还没一个一岁大的婴儿重。这就是她人生的转折点，她正被艾滋病魔折磨着，而且还患有肺炎。我们是在东开普省的一间医院中见着她，我们与她一起度过了一个下午的时光，她是一位可爱的女孩。那里的护士和医生都很了不起。他们为阿维利尔设计了一种特殊的营养食谱，同时还悉心照顾她。当我们离开这间医院时我们却无法预料她前程如何，即使我们为她拍摄了一部影片。很显然，这次会面对我们产生剧烈影响，就是这种直接接触的震撼景象让我们引起共鸣。五个月后，我们再次回到南非以期见到阿维利尔。当时我手臂上的毛发，不知道你们看不看得见，但毛发们皆根根竖起，因为它们知道我所要带给你们的震撼。这就是她所发生的变化。是不是很了不起呢？
en:Now, I just would like to finish offto tell you the little storyabout Avelile.This is Avelile —she goes with me wherever I go.I tell her story to everyonebecause she representsone of millionsof HIV/AIDS orphans.Avelile&#39;s motherhad HIV virus —she diedfrom AIDS-related illness.Avelile had the virus,she was born with the virus.And here she is at seven years old,weighing no more than a one year-old baby.At this point in her life,she&#39;s suffering with full-blown AIDSand had pneumonia.We met her in a hospital in the Eastern Capeand spent a whole afternoon with her — an adorable child.The doctors and nurses were phenomenal.They put her on very special nutritious dietand took great care of her.And we didn&#39;t know when we left the hospital —because we filmed her story — we didn&#39;t know if she was going to survive.So, it was obviously — it was a very emotional encounterand left us feeling very resonantwith this direct experience, this one child,you know, that story.Five months later,we went back to South Africato meet Avelile again.And I&#39;m getting —the hairs on my — I don&#39;t know if you can see the hairs on my arms.They&#39;re standing up because I know what I&#39;m going to show you.This is the transformation that took place.Isn&#39;t it extraordinary?
时间： 8:01
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
时间： 8:11
zh-cn:这些掌声应是为那些护士和医生而响起来的。我认为你们都为这种转变而感到欣慰。因此我想对你们说，在场的每一位听众，假若你们希望世界上每位母亲，每位孩子都能获得良好的营养供给以及完善的医疗照顾，而且你们认同联合国千年目标，尤其是第五和第六项目标，而且希望所有国家政府皆能对此作出承诺，那么请你们站起来。好吧，我认为在场的所有人都支持这项决议。
en:That round of applause is actuallyfor the doctors and nurses of the hospital who took care of Avelile.And I take it that you appreciate that kind of transformation.So, I would like to say to you,each one in the audience,if you feel that every motherand every child in the worldhas the right to have accessto good nutrition and good medical care,and you believe that the Millennium Development Goals,specifically five and six,should be absolutely committed toby all governments around the world —especially in sub-Saharan Africa —could you please stand up.I think that&#39;s fair to say,it&#39;s almost everyone in the hall.
时间： 8:59
zh-cn:非常感谢你们。
en:Thank you very much.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
