时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这是我的侄女。她叫Yahl。她只有九个月大。她妈妈是一名医生，爸爸是一名律师。等到Yahli上大学的时候，像她父母这样的工作将面目全非。
en:So this is my niece.Her name is Yahli.She is nine months old.Her mum is a doctor,and her dad is a lawyer.By the time Yahli goes to college,the jobs her parents doare going to look dramatically different.
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:2013年，牛津大学的研究人员做了一项关于未来就业的研究。他们得出结论：差不多将近一半的工作都有被机器自动化取代的危险。而机器学习应对这种颠覆负主要责任。它是人工智能最强大的分支。允许机器从现有数据中学习，并模仿人类的所作所为。我的公司Kaggle专注于尖端的机器学习。我们召集了成千上万的专家正为工业和学术界 寻找重要问题的答案。因此，我们可以从独特的视角来观察，机器可以做什么，不可以做什么，哪些工作可以被自动化或受到威胁。
en:In 2013, researchers at Oxford Universitydid a study on the future of work.They concluded that almost onein every two jobs have a high riskof being automated by machines.Machine learning is the technologythat&#39;s responsible for mostof this disruption.It&#39;s the most powerful branchof artificial intelligence.It allows machines to learn from dataand mimic some of the thingsthat humans can do.My company, Kaggle, operateson the cutting edge of machine learning.We bring togetherhundreds of thousands of expertsto solve important problemsfor industry and academia.This gives us a unique perspectiveon what machines can do,what they can&#39;t doand what jobs they mightautomate or threaten.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:机器学习是在90年代初进入人们的视野。一开始，它只是执行一些相对简单的任务。像评估贷款申请的信用风险，通过识别手写的邮政编码来检索邮件。在过去几年里，我们取得了突破性进展。现在，机器学习可以完成非常复杂的任务。2012年，Kaggle给当地学校出了个难题，设计一个算法来评判高中作文。获胜的算法给出的分数居然和真正老师给出的分数相符。去年，我们出了一道更难的题。你能从拍摄出的眼睛图像中诊断出糖尿病性视网膜病变吗？再一次，获胜的演算法给出的诊断和眼科医生的诊断相符。
en:Machine learning started making its wayinto industry in the early &#39;90s.It started with relatively simple tasks.It started with things like assessingcredit risk from loan applications,sorting the mail by readinghandwritten characters from zip codes.Over the past few years, we have madedramatic breakthroughs.Machine learning is now capableof far, far more complex tasks.In 2012, Kaggle challenged its communityto build an algorithmthat could grade high-school essays.The winning algorithmswere able to match the gradesgiven by human teachers.Last year, we issuedan even more difficult challenge.Can you take images of the eyeand diagnose an eye diseasecalled diabetic retinopathy?Again, the winning algorithmswere able to match the diagnosesgiven by human ophthalmologists.
时间： 1:56
zh-cn:类似于这样的任务，只要给定正确的数据，机器将完全超越人类。一位老师在40年的职业生涯中可能审阅一万篇作文。一名眼科医生，大概可以检查5万只眼睛。但在短短几分钟之内，机器可以审阅百万篇文章或检查数百万只眼睛。对于频繁，大批量的任务我们无法与机器抗衡。
en:Now, given the right data,machines are going to outperform humansat tasks like this.A teacher might read 10,000 essaysover a 40-year career.An ophthalmologist might see 50,000 eyes.A machine can read millions of essaysor see millions of eyeswithin minutes.We have no chance of competingagainst machineson frequent, high-volume tasks.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:但有些事情机器却无能为力。机器在解决新情况方面进展甚微。它们还不能处理未曾反复接触的事情。机器学习致命的局限性在于它需要从大量已知的数据中总结经验。人类则不然。我们有一种能把看似毫不相关的事物联系起来的能力，从而解决从未见过的问题
en:But there are things we can dothat machines can&#39;t do.Where machines have madevery little progressis in tackling novel situations.They can&#39;t handle thingsthey haven&#39;t seen many times before.The fundamental limitationsof machine learningis that it needs to learnfrom large volumes of past data.Now, humans don&#39;t.We have the ability to connectseemingly disparate threadsto solve problems we&#39;ve never seen before.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:Percy Spencer是一个物理学家，在二战期间从事雷达的研究工作，他注意到磁控管融化了他的巧克力。他从对电磁辐射的理解联想到烹饪，因此发明了——猜猜是什么？——微波炉。
en:Percy Spencer was a physicistworking on radar during World War II,when he noticed the magnetronwas melting his chocolate bar.He was able to connect his understandingof electromagnetic radiationwith his knowledge of cookingin order to invent — any guesses? —the microwave oven.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:这是个非常杰出的创新例子。但这种跨界转型，每天正以难以察觉的方式在我们身边发生成千上百次。在创新方面机器无法与我们抗衡。这将使机器自动化取代人工受到限制。
en:Now, this is a particularly remarkableexample of creativity.But this sort of cross-pollinationhappens for each of us in small waysthousands of times per day.Machines cannot compete with uswhen it comes to tacklingnovel situations,and this puts a fundamental limiton the human tasksthat machines will automate.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:那么这对未来的工作意味着什么呢？未来工作的状态完全取决于一个问题：这种工作在多大程度上可以简化为频繁，大批量的任务，又涉及多少对创新能力的要求？对于那些频繁，大批量的任务，机器变得越来越智能。如今， 它们可以评判作文，诊断某些疾病。再过几年，它们将可以进行审计，将能审阅法律合同样本。尽管会计师和律师还是需要的。但他们只需要研究复杂的税收结构，或无先例的诉讼过程。但机器将会挤占他们的位置，增加就业难度。
en:So what does this meanfor the future of work?The future state of any single job liesin the answer to a single question:To what extent is that job reducibleto frequent, high-volume tasks,and to what extent does it involvetackling novel situations?On frequent, high-volume tasks,machines are getting smarter and smarter.Today they grade essays.They diagnose certain diseases.Over coming years,they&#39;re going to conduct our audits,and they&#39;re going to read boilerplatefrom legal contracts.Accountants and lawyers are still needed.They&#39;re going to be neededfor complex tax structuring,for pathbreaking litigation.But machines will shrink their ranksand make these jobs harder to come by.
时间： 3:59
zh-cn:如上所述，在创新方面机器没有取得太大进展。营销文案需要抓住消费者的心理。脱颖而出是关键。商业策略需要找到市场上还无人问津的空白。人类将是营销文案的创造者，人类才能推动商业战略发展。
en:Now, as mentioned,machines are not making progresson novel situations.The copy behind a marketing campaignneeds to grab consumers&#39; attention.It has to stand out from the crowd.Business strategy meansfinding gaps in the market,things that nobody else is doing.It will be humans that are creatingthe copy behind our marketing campaigns,and it will be humans that are developingour business strategy.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:所以Yahli，无论你将来决定做什么，让每一天都带给你新的挑战。如果是那样，你的未来将无法被机器取代。
en:So Yahli, whatever you decide to do,let every day bring you a new challenge.If it does, then you will stayahead of the machines.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:（掌声 ）
en:(Applause)
