时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在这里我想跟大家谈谈大脑意识的奇妙和神秘之处。奇妙之处在于我们大家每天早上醒来我们的大脑会神奇地重新获得意识。我们会完全重获自我意识以及自身的存在感，但是我们几乎从来没有停下来思考过这个神奇的事情。事实上，我们应该这么做因为如果没有大脑意识，我们不会有任何关于人类的知识；我们也不会懂得任何有关世界的知识。我们将不会有痛苦，但同时也不会有欢乐我们将没有得到爱的机会或者创造爱的能力。当然，斯科特·菲茨杰拉德有一句名言“创造了意识的人应该被狠狠的责备。”但是他也忘了如果没有意识他将不能感受到真实的幸福甚至没有成就卓越的可能。
en:I&#39;m here to talk aboutthe wonder and the mysteryof conscious minds.The wonder is about the factthat we all woke up this morningand we had with itthe amazing return of our conscious mind.We recovered minds with a complete sense of selfand a complete sense of our own existence,yet we hardly ever pause to consider this wonder.We should, in fact,because without having this possibility of conscious minds,we would have no knowledge whatsoeverabout our humanity;we would have no knowledge whatsoever about the world.We would have no pains, but also no joys.We would have no access to loveor to the ability to create.And of course, Scott Fitzgerald said famouslythat &quot;he who invented consciousnesswould have a lot to be blamed for.&quot;But he also forgotthat without consciousness,he would have no access to true happinessand even the possibility of transcendence.
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:大脑意识的奇妙之处就说到这，现在我们来谈谈其神秘之处。这种神秘之处确实极难阐述清楚。从早期的哲学发展到现在，当然包括整个神经科学的发展历史，这都是一个难以阐述清楚的迷，并且引起了很多的争论。事实上有很多人认为我们甚至一点都不了解它，我们应该放弃它，这个迷是不会被解决的。我并不相信，我认为情况正在改变。如果声称我们知道在大脑中意识是怎样产生的是很可笑的，但是我们确实可以开始探寻这个问题，并且我们已经开始看到答案的雏形了。
en:So much for the wonder, now for the mystery.This is a mysterythat has really been extremely hard to elucidate.All the way back into early philosophyand certainly throughout the history of neuroscience,this has been one mysterythat has always resisted elucidation,has got major controversies.And there are actually many peoplethat think we should not even touch it;we should just leave it alone, it&#39;s not to be solved.I don&#39;t believe that,and I think the situation is changing.It would be ridiculous to claimthat we know how we make consciousnessin our brains,but we certainly can beginto approach the question,and we can begin to see the shape of a solution.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:另一个值得庆祝的奇迹是我们有成像技术让我们可以进入人脑内部来做一些事，例如，你现在所看到的。这些是来自汉娜·达玛西欧的实验室的图像，现在给你们展示的是在一个有生命的大脑里，重现真实的大脑内部环境。这是一个有生命的人。这不是一个正在被进行尸检研究的人。甚至——这是一件真正令人吃惊的事情——我接下来要给你们展示的是进入到大脑表层下面，并且看看有生命的大脑中各个真实的连接和路径。所有那些染了色的线都代表了一束束的轴突，这些纤维进入细胞体形成突触。很非常抱歉让你们失望了，它们是无色的。但是无论如何，他们是存在的。这些颜色是方向的代码，从后到前或者从前到后。
en:And one more wonder to celebrateis the fact that we have imaging technologiesthat now allow us to go inside the human brainand be able to do, for example,what you&#39;re seeing right now.These are images that come from Hanna Damasio&#39;s lab,and which show you, in a living brain,the reconstruction of that brain.And this is a person who is alive.This is not a personthat is being studied at autopsy.And even more —and this is something that one can be really amazed about —is what I&#39;m going to show you next,which is going underneath the surface of the brainand actually looking in the living brainat real connections, real pathways.So all of those colored linescorrespond to bunches of axons,the fibers that join cell bodiesto synapses.And I&#39;m sorry to disappoint you, they don&#39;t come in color.But at any rate, they are there.The colors are codes for the direction,from whether it is back to frontor vice versa.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:无论如何，什么是意识？什么是大脑的意识？我们可以简单观察一下然后说，好吧，它就是那些当我们陷入深度睡眠并且不做梦的时候失去的，或者当我们麻木的时候丢掉的，但是当我们睡醒或者从麻木状态中回复过来时我们又会重获意识。但是我们在麻木状态下，或者当我们进入深度睡眠并不做梦的时候，我们失去的到底是什么呢？首先，它是一种思维，是一组源源不断的精神图像。当然想想那些可以被感知的图像，那些可视的图像，例如你现在与我和这个讲台的关系，或者听觉的图像，就像你现在与我说的话的关系。这些源源不断的精神图像就是思维。
en:At any rate, what is consciousness?What is a conscious mind?And we could take a very simple viewand say, well, it is that which we losewhen we fall into deep sleep without dreams,or when we go under anesthesia,and it is what we regainwhen we recover from sleepor from anesthesia.But what is exactly that stuff that we lose under anesthesia,or when we are in deep, dreamless sleep?Well first of all,it is a mind,which is a flow of mental images.And of course consider imagesthat can be sensory patterns,visual, such as you&#39;re having right nowin relation to the stage and me,or auditory images,as you are having now in relation to my words.That flow of mental imagesis mind.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:但是还有一些其他的东西是我们所有在这间屋子里的人正在经历的。我们并不是视觉或者听觉或触觉图像的被动展出者。我们拥有自我。我们有一个“自己”现在自动呈现在我们的意识中我们拥有自己的思维。我们知道我们每一个人都在经历这些——而不只是坐在你旁边的人所以为了有大脑的意识，在你的大脑意识中有一个自我。所以大脑意识是一个有着自我存在的意识。这个自我将主观视角引入意识而且我们只有在意识中有自我的时候才会达到完全有意识的状态所以要弄清这个关于意识的谜我们需要知道的是第一，思维在大脑中是怎样连接在一起的，第二，自我是怎样构造的。
en:But there is something elsethat we are all experiencing in this room.We are not passive exhibitorsof visual or auditoryor tactile images.We have selves.We have a Methat is automatically presentin our minds right now.We own our minds.And we have a sense that it&#39;s everyone of usthat is experiencing this —not the person who is sitting next to you.So in order to have a conscious mind,you have a self within the conscious mind.So a conscious mind is a mind with a self in it.The self introduces the subjective perspective in the mind,and we are only fully consciouswhen self comes to mind.So what we need to know to even address this mysteryis, number one, how are minds are put together in the brain,and, number two, how selves are constructed.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:现在我们来说第一部分，第一个问题这相对来说比较简单——但是它一点都不简单——但是在神经系统科学中它正在被慢慢解决。很明显，为了产生意识我们需要构造神经地图。所以想象一个网格，就像我现在正展示给你们的这个，想象在那个网格中，那个二维的薄片中，有一些神经元。如果你愿意，想象一块广告牌，一个数字广告牌，在那上面有既可以被点亮，又可以不点亮的元素。而且根据你如何创造亮着的或不亮的的类型，这些数字元素，或者，就此而言，这个薄片上的神经元，你就可以构造一个地图。当然，我正给你展示的这个是一个可视的地图，但是这个可以应用于任何类型的地图——例如，听觉地图，与声音频率有关的，或者用我们的皮肤构成的地图与我们的触觉有关。
en:Now the first part, the first problem,is relatively easy — it&#39;s not easy at all —but it is something that has been approached gradually in neuroscience.And it&#39;s quite clear that, in order to make minds,we need to construct neural maps.So imagine a grid, like the one I&#39;m showing you right now,and now imagine, within that grid,that two-dimensional sheet,imagine neurons.And picture, if you will,a billboard, a digital billboard,where you have elementsthat can be either lit or not.And depending on how you create the patternof lighting or not lighting,the digital elements,or, for that matter, the neurons in the sheet,you&#39;re going to be able to construct a map.This, of course, is a visual map that I&#39;m showing you,but this applies to any kind of map —auditory, for example, in relation to sound frequencies,or to the maps that we construct with our skinin relation to an object that we palpate.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:现在我要证明这是多么的相似——布满神经元的网格和神经元活动的地形布局之间的关系和我们的精神经历——下面我讲讲我个人的体会。如果我盖住我的左眼——我说的是我个人，并不是你们每个人——如果我盖住我的左眼，我看这个网格——和我现在展示给你们的这个非常相似。所有的线条都很好，漂亮并且垂直。但是有一次，我发现如果我盖住我的左眼，我看到的是这样的图像。我看到在中央偏左的地方的边缘有一个弯曲。
en:Now to bring home the pointof how close it is —the relationship between the grid of neuronsand the topographical arrangementof the activity of the neuronsand our mental experience —I&#39;m going to tell you a personal story.So if I cover my left eye —I&#39;m talking about me personally, not all of you —if I cover my left eye,I look at the grid — pretty much like the one I&#39;m showing you.Everything is nice and fine and perpendicular.But sometime ago, I discoveredthat if I cover my left eye,instead what I get is this.I look at the grid and I see a warpingat the edge of my central-left field.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:非常奇怪——我对这个现象分析了好久。但是有一次，我的眼科同事卡门·佩拉法特，她开发了一个视网膜的激光扫描仪，在她的帮助下我发现了下面的问题。如果我通过那个小角落里的水平面来扫描我的视网膜，我发现下面的情况在右边，我的视网膜是非常匀称的。你通过这个小凹向下可以看到眼睛神经的开端。但是在我左边的视网膜上有一个肿块，在这里用红色的箭头标记出来。它和那下面的一个小囊肿相呼应。这正是引起我的视觉图像弯曲的原因。
en:Very odd — I&#39;ve analyzed this for a while.But sometime ago,through the help of an opthamologist colleague of mine,Carmen Puliafito,who developed a laser scanner of the retina,I found out the the following.If I scan my retinathrough the horizontal plane that you see there in the little corner,what I get is the following.On the right side, my retina is perfectly symmetrical.You see the going down towards the foveawhere the optic nerve begins.But on my left retina there is a bump,which is marked there by the red arrow.And it corresponds to a little cystthat is located below.And that is exactly what causesthe warping of my visual image.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:所以想一想：你有一个神经元网格，在这个网格的位置有一个水平面力的改变，然后你的精神体验有了一个弯曲。这说明你的精神体验和视网膜中神经元的活动关系有多密切，视网膜是位于眼球中的大脑的一部分，或者，就此而论，视觉皮层。所以从视网膜中你了解到视觉皮层。当然，大脑给来自于视网膜的信号增加了许多信息在那个图像中，你可以看到各种岛我把这叫做大脑中的图像生成区域。用这个绿色的做例子，它与触觉的信息相呼应，或者这个蓝色的部分与听觉信息相呼应。
en:So just think of this:you have a grid of neurons,and now you have a plane mechanical changein the position of the grid,and you get a warping of your mental experience.So this is how closeyour mental experienceand the activity of the neurons in the retina,which is a part of the brain located in the eyeball,or, for that matter, a sheet of visual cortex.So from the retinayou go onto visual cortex.And of course, the brain adds ona lot of informationto what is going onin the signals that come from the retina.And in that image there,you see a variety of islandsof what I call image-making regions in the brain.You have the green for example,that corresponds to tactile information,or the blue that corresponds to auditory information.
时间： 8:11
zh-cn:另外那些图像生成区域中还进行所有的神经地图的绘制，同时还可以给你看到的这周围的紫色的海洋提供信号，这些紫色部分是是连接皮层，在这里你可以记录在那些小岛上图像生成的进程。而且最美妙的是你可以凭着记忆走出这些连接皮层，在有感知的相似区域产生过去的图像所以想想大脑是多么的省事和懒惰啊。它在特定的区域产生知觉并生成图像。当我们回忆信息的时候，这些区域恰恰是我们用来生成图像的地方
en:And something else that happensis that those image-making regionswhere you have the plottingof all these neural maps,can then provide signalsto this ocean of purple that you see around,which is the association cortex,where you can make records of what went onin those islands of image-making.And the great beautyis that you can then go from memory,out of those association cortices,and produce back imagesin the very same regions that have perception.So think about how wonderfully convenient and lazythe brain is.So it provides certain areasfor perception and image-making.And those are exactly the samethat are going to be used for image-makingwhen we recall information.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:到目前为止，大脑意识的迷幻之处减少了一点因为我们对于我们怎样生成这些图像有了大概的了解。但是有关自我呢？自我确实是一个难以捉摸的问题。长时间以来，人们甚至没有触及到它，因为他们说，你怎么能找到这个参照点？这是一个稳固的点，需要我们每天不断坚持自我我对这个问题的答案进行了思考。是这样的我们生成身体内部的大脑地图并且把它们当作其他所有地图的参考。
en:So far the mystery of the conscious mindis diminishing a little bitbecause we have a general senseof how we make these images.But what about the self?The self is really the elusive problem.And for a long time,people did not even want to touch it,because they&#39;d say,&quot;How can you have this reference point, this stability,that is required to maintainthe continuity of selves day after day?&quot;And I thought about a solution to this problem.It&#39;s the following.We generate brain mapsof the body&#39;s interiorand use them as the reference for all other maps.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:让我来简单告诉你们我是如何想到这个的。我想到这个是因为如果你们想找到一个被我们认为是自我的参照点——比如宾格的我，主格的我在我们的处理过程中——我们需要一些稳定的东西，一些随着日子增长并不脱离的东西。恰好我们有一个单独的形体。我们有一个身体，不是两个，也不是三个。这就是开端。这只有一个参照点，是身体。当然，身体有许多部分，这些部分以不同的速率成长，他们大小不同，每个人也不同；但是，身体内部就不是这样了。与我们内在环境有关的事——打个比方，我们身体内整个化学反应的管理事实上，被日日充分维持着是有一个非常好的理由的如果你偏离那些接近生命存活范围中线的参数太多你就会生病或死亡。所以我们有一个内建的系统存在于我们自己的生命里这个系统可以保证某种程度的延续性。我想称之为几乎毫无止境的千篇一律。如果你没有这个生理上的千篇一律，你就会生病或是死亡。所以那是这延续性的另一个元素。
en:So let me tell you just a little bit about how I came to this.I came to this because,if you&#39;re going to have a reference that we know as self —the Me, the Iin our own processing —we need to have something that is stable,something that does not deviate muchfrom day to day.Well it so happens that we have a singular body.We have one body, not two, not three.And so that is a beginning.There is just one reference point, which is the body.But then, of course, the body has many parts,and things grow at different rates,and they have different sizes and different people;however, not so with the interior.The things that have to dowith what is known as our internal milieu —for example, the whole managementof the chemistries within our bodyare, in fact, extremely maintainedday after dayfor one very good reason.If you deviate too muchin the parametersthat are close to the midlineof that life-permitting survival range,you go into disease or death.So we have an in-built systemwithin our own livesthat ensures some kind of continuity.I like to call it an almost infinite sameness from day to day.Because if you don&#39;t have that sameness, physiologically,you&#39;re going to be sick or you&#39;re going to die.So that&#39;s one more element for this continuity.
时间：11:07
zh-cn:最后就是大脑内部控制身体的部分和身体本身之间有一个非常紧密的连接这跟其他的连接都不一样。举例来说，我正在做一个你的影像，但是在我把你当做观众看到的影像和我大脑之间没有生理上的连接然而，在我大脑中控制身体的部分和我自己的身体之间有一个紧密、永恒的连接
en:And the final thingis that there is a very tight couplingbetween the regulation of our body within the brainand the body itself,unlike any other coupling.So for example, I&#39;m making images of you,but there&#39;s no physiological bondbetween the images I have of you as an audienceand my brain.However, there is a close, permanently maintained bondbetween the body regulating parts of my brainand my own body.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:这就是这个连接的样子，看那边那个区域脑干在大脑皮层和脊髓之间。我现在要强调的是正是在那个区域里我们有一个小屋子用来存储所有的身体中的生命调节设备他们都有各自具体的功能，比如，如果你看一下脑干上半部的红色部分如果你因为中风而损坏这个区域，那你就会昏迷或是陷入植物人的状态，当然，在这种状态下你的思维就消失了你的意识消失了。接下来发生的是你丧失了自我的基础你不再能感觉到自我的存在，而事实是，那里还是有影像存在，在大脑皮层中形成，只是你不知道他们在那里。当你损坏脑干中的红色部分时结果是你失去了意识
en:So here&#39;s how it looks. Look at the region there.There is the brain stem in between the cerebral cortexand the spinal cord.And it is within that regionthat I&#39;m going to highlight nowthat we have this housingof all the life-regulation devicesof the body.This is so specific that, for example,if you look at the part that is covered in redin the upper part of the brain stem,if you damage that as a result of a stroke, for example,what you get is comaor vegetative state,which is a state, of course,in which your mind disappears,your consciousness disappears.What happens then actuallyis that you lose the grounding of the self,you have no longer access to any feeling of your own existence,and, in fact, there can be images going on,being formed in the cerebral cortex,except you don&#39;t know they&#39;re there.You have, in effect, lost consciousnesswhen you have damage to that red section of the brain stem.
时间：12:43
zh-cn:但如果你看看脑干中绿色的部分，没有发生像那样的事情。他们的功能就是那么具体。脑干中绿色的结构，如果你损坏，而且这经常发生，你就会完全瘫痪，但是你的意识可以保留下来你有感觉，你也知道，你有完整的意识你可以把自己的意识间接表达出来这是个很可怕的情形。你不会想看到。这些人都被囚禁在他们自己的身体里。但他们是有意识的。有一个很有趣的影片，是一个难得的好电影讲述的是像这样的情形，是朱利安·舒纳伯几年前拍的影片里一个病人碰上这样的问题。
en:But if you consider the green part of the brain stem,nothing like that happens.It is that specific.So in that green component of the brain stem,if you damage it, and often it happens,what you get is complete paralysis,but your conscious mind is maintained.You feel, you know, you have a fully conscious mindthat you can report very indirectly.This is a horrific condition. You don&#39;t want to see it.And people are, in fact, imprisonedwithin their own bodies,but they do have a mind.There was a very interesting film,one of the rare good films doneabout a situation like this,by Julian Schnabel some years agoabout a patient that was in that condition.
时间：13:27
zh-cn:现在我要让你看一张照片。我保证不会说任何跟这有关的事，免得吓到你们。这只是要告诉你在脑干红色的区域，简单说，有一些与制作脑地图的分子相呼应的小方块这些脑地图包括我们身体内部的各个方面以及身体本身的各个方面它们的空间性很强而且以一种重复的模式完全相互连接。正是通过这里以及脑干和身体之间的紧密连接我认为——但是我也可能是错的。不过我不认为我错了——人们制造这个身体的地图可以为我们提供自我认识的基础它以感觉的形式存在——具体说，是最原始的感觉。
en:So now I&#39;m going to show you a picture.I promise not to say anything about this,except this is to frighten you.It&#39;s just to tell youthat in that red section of the brain stem,there are, to make it simple,all those little squares that correspond to modulesthat actually make brain mapsof different aspects of our interior,different aspects of our body.They are exquisitely topographicand they are exquisitely interconnectedin a recursive pattern.And it is out of this and out of this tight couplingbetween the brain stem and the bodythat I believe — and I could be wrong,but I don&#39;t think I am —that you generate this mapping of the bodythat provides the grounding for the selfand that comes in the form of feelings —primordial feelings, by the way.
时间：14:17
zh-cn:这个图像说明什么呢？看看这里的“大脑”，看看这里的“脑干”，看看这个“身体”。你会看到一个互相连接的图像这里脑干与身体相互联系紧密并为自我提供基础而大脑皮层通过大量影像成就了意识的宏大壮观这些影像其实就是意识的组成部分而且也是我们最关注的部分这是必然的，因为这是在我们意识中真实存在的场景现在请大家看看这些箭头它们可不是为了好看才放在那的而是因为那里有非常紧密的互动如果大脑皮层和脑干之间没有互动的话你就不会有意识如果脑干和身体之间没有互动的话你也不会有意识
en:So what is the picture that we get here?Look at &quot;cerebral cortex,&quot; look at &quot;brain stem,&quot;look at &quot;body,&quot;and you get the picture of the interconnectivityin which you have the brain stem providing the grounding for the selfin a very tight interconnection with the body.And you have the cerebral cortexproviding the great spectacle of our mindswith the profusion of imagesthat are, in fact, the contents of our mindsand that we normally pay most attention to,as we should, because that&#39;s reallythe film that is rolling in our minds.But look at the arrows.They&#39;re not there for looks.They&#39;re there because there&#39;s this very close interaction.You cannot have a conscious mindif you don&#39;t have the interactionbetween cerebral cortex and brain stem.You cannot have a conscious mindif you don&#39;t have the interactionbetween the brain stem and the body.
时间：15:09
zh-cn:另一个有意思的地方是我们的脑干也存在于其他很多物种中所有脊椎动物的脑干构造与我们的是非常相似的，这也是为什么我觉得其他物种也像我们一样有意识的原因之一只不过它们的意识不如我们这么丰富因为它们不像我们有大脑皮层这就是差异所在我非常反对那种认为意识是大脑皮层伟大产物的观点只是因为我们有丰富的意识而不仅仅是因为我们有自我我们才能认识到自己的存在才能有作为人类的感觉
en:Another thing that is interestingis that the brain stem that we haveis shared with a variety of other species.So throughout vertebrates,the design of the brain stem is very similar to ours,which is one of the reasons why I thinkthose other species have conscious minds like we do.Except that they&#39;re not as rich as ours,because they don&#39;t have a cerebral cortex like we do.That&#39;s where the difference is.And I strongly disagree with the ideathat consciousness should be consideredas the great product of the cerebral cortex.Only the wealth of our minds is,not the very fact that we have a selfthat we can referto our own existence,and that we have any sense of person.
时间：15:53
zh-cn:自我有三个层次原始层，核心层，及自传层。前两层也同样适用于其他很多物种它们主要来自于脑干以及其他物种皮层中存在的物质我认为那是一些物种的自传层自我鲸类和灵长类动物也都有某种程度上的自传层自我。家里养的狗也都有某种程度的自传层自我。但是有一点新奇的是
en:Now there are three levels of self to consider —the proto, the core and the autobiographical.The first two are sharedwith many, many other species,and they are really coming outlargely of the brain stemand whatever there is of cortex in those species.It&#39;s the autobiographical selfwhich some species have, I think.Cetaceans and primates have alsoan autobiographical self to a certain degree.And everybody&#39;s dogs at homehave an autobiographical self to a certain degree.But the novelty is here.
时间：16:26
zh-cn:自传层的自我是构建在过去记忆的基础上还有我们所做计划的记忆上；它包括经历过的过去和期待的未来自传层的自我还促进了持久的记忆、推理、想象、创意及语言的发展。而从那得到的，是文化的工具——宗教、正义、贸易、艺术、科学、科技。正是在这种文化中我们才能真正获得一些不完全被生理设定好的东西这就是新奇的地方它在不同的文化中发展在人类的集合体里发展。正是在这种文化里我们发明了一些东西，我想称之为“社会文化调节”
en:The autobiographical self is builton the basis of past memoriesand memories of the plans that we have made;it&#39;s the lived past and the anticipated future.And the autobiographical selfhas prompted extended memory, reasoning,imagination, creativity and language.And out of that came the instruments of culture —religions, justice,trade, the arts, science, technology.And it is within that culturethat we really can get —and this is the novelty —something that is not entirely set by our biology.It is developed in the cultures.It developed in collectives of human beings.And this is, of course, the culturewhere we have developed something that I like to callsocio-cultural regulation.
时间：17:13
zh-cn:最后，你应该想问为什么要关心这个呢？为什么非要搞清楚究竟是脑干还是大脑皮层呢？为什么要搞清楚这究竟是怎么形成的呢？有三个原因。第一，好奇心。灵长类动物是特别好奇的——而人类更是之最。比如说，如果我们关心抗地心引力将银河拽离地球这个问题，为什么我们不关心人体内部发生的事情呢？
en:And finally, you could rightly ask,why care about this?Why care if it is the brain stem or the cerebral cortexand how this is made?Three reasons. First, curiosity.Primates are extremely curious —and humans most of all.And if we are interested, for example,in the fact that anti-gravityis pulling galaxies away from the Earth,why should we not be interested in what is going oninside of human beings?
时间：17:40
zh-cn:第二，了解社会和文化。我们应该看看在这个社会文化调节中社会和文化究竟发展到什么地步最后，医学。不要忘了人类患的最坏的病是一些诸如犹豫、阿兹海默症、毒瘾这样的疾病。想想那些可以摧毁意识、消除意识的中风如果你不知道社会文化调节是如何运行的你就没有希望用一种并非侥幸的方式有效治好那些疾病因此那个理由很好，超过好奇心这个理由因为它可以证明我们现在所做的是对的去证明对我们大脑内部进行的事情进行研究是正确的
en:Second, understanding society and culture.We should lookat how society and culturein this socio-cultural regulationare a work in progress.And finally, medicine.Let&#39;s not forget that some of the worst diseasesof humankindare diseases such as depression,Alzheimer&#39;s disease, drug addiction.Think of strokes that can devastate your mindor render you unconscious.You have no prayerof treating those diseases effectivelyand in a non-serendipitous wayif you do not know how this works.So that&#39;s a very good reasonbeyond curiosityto justify what we&#39;re doing,and to justify having some interest in what is going on in our brains.
时间：18:25
zh-cn:谢谢各位
en:Thank you for your attention.
时间：18:27
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
