时间： 0:11
zh-cn:从感情上，我们最好不要很快地转移到沙漠上。所以首先我发布一个小小的管家告示：请关掉您大脑里安装的传统意义上的英文检测程序。（掌声）
en:For emotions, we should not move quickly to the desert.So, first, a small housekeeping announcement:please switch off yourproper English check programsinstalled in your brain.(Applause)
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:那么下面，欢迎你们来到金色的印度沙漠。这里只能获得这个国度里最低的降雨量。最低的降雨量。如果你习惯于使用英尺单位，9英尺，厘米，16英尺。地下水有300英尺深，相当于100米深。并且绝大多数是盐湖，不适合饮用。所以，尽管这里大多数的村子里没有电力供应，你同样不能安装手压泵或是打井以解决他们的饮水问题。然而设想你使用绿色环保技术，太阳能抽水泵—在这块土地上他们一样没有任何作用。
en:So, welcome to the Golden Desert, Indian desert.It receives the least rainfall in the country,lowest rainfall.If you are well-versed with inches, nine inches,centimeters, 16 [centimeters].The groundwater is 300 feet deep, 100 meters.And in most parts it is saline, not fit for drinking.So, you can&#39;t install hand pumps or dig wells,though there is no electricity in most of the villages.But suppose you use the green technology, solar pumps —they are of no use in this area.
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:欢迎大家来到金色的沙漠。云朵很少光临这里。但是我们却在这里找到四十种不同的方言来命名它。这里有许多用来接收雨水的技术。这是一项新兴事业，一个新的程序。然而对于沙漠社会这里没有程序可言；这是他们的生活方式。并且他们通过很多途径获得雨水。看这里，这是他们使用过的第一个用于接收雨水的装置。被称作“kunds”；有些地方称它为[印度语]
en:So, welcome to the Golden Desert.Clouds seldom visit this area.But we find 40 different names of clouds in this dialect used here.There are a number of techniques to harvest rain.This is a new work, it&#39;s a new program.But for the desert societythis is no program; this is their life.And they harvest rain in many ways.So, this is the first device they usein harvesting rain.It&#39;s called kunds; somewhere it is called [unclear].
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:你们可以注意到他们已经创造出一种不实际的集水池。沙漠在那里，沙丘，一些小块儿的区域。这是一个高高凸起的平台，你们可以看到一些小孔，使得雨水从这里流向这个集水池，这里还有一个斜坡。虽然有时我们的工程师和建筑设计师并不那么关心我们浴室里的斜坡，但在这里，他们将适当地关注这些斜坡。以及雨水应该流向什么地方。于是它有40英尺深。他的防水层处理得无懈可击。建造水平好过我们城市里的建筑承包商，因为在这里哪怕是一滴水都不应该被浪费。
en:And you can notice they have createda kind of false catchment.The desert is there, sand dunes, some small field.And this is all big raised platform.You can notice the small holesthe water will fall on this catchment,and there is a slope.Sometimes our engineers and architectsdo not care about slopes in bathrooms,but here they will care properly.And the water will go where it should go.And then it is 40 feet deep.The waterproofing is done perfectly,better than our city contractors,because not a single drop should go waste in this.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:他们在一个季节里收集近十万升的雨水。这是仅供饮用的水。地表以下是咸咸的硬水。而如今在大约一年的时间里，你可以持续拥有这些饮用水。这里有两个房子。我们经常用到一个专业术语叫做次要法规。因为我们曾经获得过书面文件，但并未立法。人们建造自己的房子和储水槽。这些凸起的平台就像这个舞台。事实上他们有15英尺深，收集来自屋顶的雨水，这里有一个小小的管道，来自他们的院子里。如果赶上一个多雨的雨季它可以收集大约25000.
en:They collect 100 thousand liters in one season.And this is pure drinking water.Below the surface there is hard saline water.But now you can have this for year round.It&#39;s two houses.We often use a term called bylaws.Because we are used to get written things.But here it is unwritten by law.And people made their house,and the water storage tanks.These raised up platforms just like this stage.In fact they go 15 feet deep,and collect rain water from roof,there is a small pipe, and from their courtyard.It can also harvest something like 25,000 in a good monsoon.
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:另一个大一些的，当然它没有坐落在沙漠的中心。这里临近斋浦尔。这里被叫做斋格尔古堡。它可以在一个季度里收集六百万加仑的雨水。已经有400年的历史。所以在这400年里每个季度它都为你供应近六百万加仑的水量。你可以估算出那些水的价格。它通过15公里长的管道系统收集雨水。
en:Another big one,this is of course out of the hardcore desert area.This is near Jaipur. This is called the Jaigarh Fort.And it can collect six million gallons of rainwater in one season.The age is 400 years.So, since 400 years it has been giving youalmost six million gallons of water per season.You can calculate the price of that water.It draws water from 15 kilometers of canals.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:你可能会看到一条现代的公路，有时几乎不到50年，就会出现断裂破损。但是这已经使用了400年的用来集水的陈旧管道，却被好几代人一直维护着。当然如果你想进去，有两个门是锁着的。但是它们会为TED人敞开的。（笑声）我们请求他们的允许。你看到的这个人提着两桶水。可以看到桶内水平面—这些可不是空桶—水面一直到这里。它可以遭到许多其他自治区的垂涎，它的颜色，它的味道，以及它的纯洁。这就是被他们称作Zero B的纯净水，因为这些水来自于云层，是纯正的蒸馏水。
en:You can see a modern road, hardly 50 years old.It can break sometimes.But this 400 year old canal, which draws water,it is maintained for so many generations.Of course if you want to go inside, the two doors are locked.But they can be opened for TED people.(Laughter)And we request them.You can see person coming up withtwo canisters of water.And the water level — these are not empty canisters —water level is right up to this.It can envy many municipalities,the color, the taste, the purity of this water.And this is what they call Zero B type of water,because it comes from the clouds,pure distilled water.
时间： 5:09
zh-cn:让我们为一个短暂的商业断开稍停片刻，然后我们要回到传统的输水系统。政府认为这里是一个非常落后的区域，应该不惜斥资数百万建立喜马拉雅山水源引入的项目。那就是为什么我刚刚说这是一个“商业断开”。（笑声）但是我们将要再次回到这个传统的引水系统。于是，从三四百公里外引水于此，不久就变成了这样。在许多部分，水风信子拼命地蔓延着这些巨大的引水河道。
en:We stop for a quick commercial break,and then we come back to the traditional systems.The government thought that this is a verybackward area and we should bringa multi-million dollar projectto bring water from the Himalayas.That&#39;s why I said that this is a commercial break.(Laughter)But we will come back, once again,to the traditional thing.So, water from 300, 400 kilometers away,soon it become like this.In many portions, water hyacinthcovered these big canals like anything.
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:当然，这里有一些地区确实接收到了通过引水管道来自喜马拉雅山的水，我并没有说它完全无效。但是在它的末端，斋沙默尔地区，你将会注意到在比卡内尔发生的事情就像这样：哪里水风信子不能生长，哪里就会有沙子流入管道。值得庆幸的是，你可以在其周围找到围绕着它的野生物种。（笑声）
en:Of course there are some areas where water is reaching,I&#39;m not saying that it is not reaching at all.But the tail end, the Jaisalmer area,you will notice in Bikaner things like this:where the water hyacinth couldn&#39;t grow,the sand is flowing in these canals.The bonus is that you can find wildlife around it.(Laughter)
时间： 6:13
zh-cn:我们有大量整幅的广告，几十年前，当这些管道建成时，让人们抛弃以往传统的储水系统，宣称这些新建的水泥槽子可以为人们提供管道水，那是每一个人的梦想。然而它真的变成了一个梦。因为随后的日子里引水不能到达这些地方，人们开始重新修建他们自己传统的储水设备。
en:We had full-page advertisements,some 30 years, 25 years ago when this canal came.They said that throw away your traditional systems,these new cement tanks will supply you piped water.It&#39;s a dream. And it became a dream also.Because soon the water was not able to reach these areas.And people started renovating their own structures.
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:这些全部是传统的蓄水设备，因为时间的原因我不能在此做更进一步的解释。但是你可以看到那个女人正站在上面。（笑声）她们正在编辫子。（掌声）斋沙默尔，这里是沙漠的中心，这个城镇被建立于800年前。我不是很确定在那个时候孟买是不是在那里，德里是不是在那里，金奈是不是在那里，班加罗尔又是不是在那里。
en:These are all traditional water structures,which we won&#39;t be able to explain in such a short time.But you can see that no woman is standing on those.(Laughter)And they are plaiting hair.(Applause)Jaisalmer. This is heart of desert.This town was established 800 years ago.I&#39;m not sure by that timeBombay was there, or Delhi was there,or Chennai was there, or Bangalore was there.
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:所以这里是丝绸之路的终点。有优越的社会关系，800年以前，通往欧洲。我们没有人可以到达欧洲，但是斋沙默尔却一直与那里保持着很好的联系，这就是只有16厘米降雨量的地方。降雨量如此有限的地区却繁荣着最多姿多彩的生活。虽然你在这个幻灯片里看不到水，但它是暗藏的。某处的小河或小溪会流经于此。或许，如果你想作画，你可以把这里画成蓝色，因为在这张图片里你看到的每一个屋顶都是用来收集雨水的，并把这些雨水引入屋里储存起来。
en:So, this was the terminal point for silk route.Well connected, 800 years ago, through Europe.None of us were able to go to Europe,but Jaisalmer was well connected to it.And this is the 16 centimeter area.Such a limited rainfall,and highest colorful life flourished in these areas.You won&#39;t find water in this slide.But it is invisible.Somewhere a stream or a rivuletis running through here.Or, if you want to paint, you can paint it blue throughoutbecause every roof which you see in this picturecollects rainwater dropsand deposit in the rooms.
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:但是除了这个系统，他们还围绕着这个城镇设计了52个美丽的储水池。这就是我们所说的公私合作公司，你也可以加入你的土地。所以，土地、公有的和个人的公司一起为建设这样美丽的贮水池而合力工作。它是一种适合任何季节的贮水池。你将会赞美它，哪怕只是终年地注视着它的美丽。无论水位升起或回落，它的美丽是自始至终存在的。
en:But apart from this system,they designed 52 beautiful water bodies around this town.And what we call private public partnershipyou can add estate also.So, estate, public and private entrepreneurswork together to build this beautiful water body.And it&#39;s a kind of water body for all seasons.You will admire it. Just behold the beauty throughout the year.Whether water level goes up or down,the beauty is there throughout.
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:另一个贮水池，干涸了，当然是在夏季里。但你可以看到古代社会是如何用心地将工程学与美学结合在一起。这些雕像，这些令人惊异的雕像，为你提供着地下水位的信息。当雨季来临，雨水开始填满这个槽子，它将掩盖住这些美丽的雕像，如同我们今天常说的“大众传媒工具”。这就是为了达到大众传媒的目的。当人们看到大象被淹没时，每个人都可以根据大象被淹没的位置判断出储水量可以供应7个月，9个月或者12个月。然后他们会来到这个池子前做礼拜，瞻仰并感恩。
en:Another water body, dried up, of course,during the summer period,but you can see how the traditional societycombines engineering with aesthetics, with the heart.These statues, marvelous statues,gives you an idea of water table.When this rain comes and the water starts filling this tank,it will submerge these beautiful statuesin what we call in English today &quot;mass communication.&quot;This was for mass communication.Everybody in the town will know that this elephant has drowned,so water will be there for seven months or nine months,or 12 months.And then they will come and worship this pond,pay respect, their gratitude.
时间： 9:39
zh-cn:另一个小贮水池叫做[印度语]，很难将它翻译成英文，特别是以我的英语水平。但是最贴切的词语应该是“荣誉”，一个名誉。这个小小的贮水池在沙漠中的名气源于它从未干涸过。即使在严重干旱的时期，也没有人见到过它曾经干涸。或许他们早知道将来也会是这样。这个贮水池已有150多年的历史。又或许他们早已预知在2009年11月6日这里会有一个蓝绿色的TED演讲，所以他们把它画成了这个样子。（笑声）（掌声）
en:Another small water body, called the [unclear].It is difficult to translate in English,especially in my English.But the nearest would be &quot;glory,&quot; a reputation.The reputation in desert of this small water body isthat it never dries up.In severe drought periodsnobody has seen this water bodygetting dried up.And perhaps they knew the future also.It was designed some 150 years ago.But perhaps they knew that on sixth, November, 2009,there will be a TED green and blue session,so they painted it like this.(Laughter)(Applause)
时间：10:29
zh-cn:这是一口干涸的贮水池。孩子们正站在一个很难解释的设备上。这个叫做kund。在英语里我们有地表水和地下水。但是它不是地下水。你可以通过任何一口井来汲取地下水，但是这里没有普通的井。它榨取的是沙子里暗藏的水分。他们把这种水称作[印度语]。在它的下面有一条带状的石膏物质汲取着水分，它是大自然的产物，大约在三百万年前就开始形成了，哪里有这种石膏样的物质，他们就可以从哪里获得水分。
en:Dry water body. Children are standing ona very difficult device to explain.This is called kund. We have, in English, surface water and ground water.But this is not ground water.You can draw ground water from any well.But this is no ordinary well.It squeeze the moisturehidden in the sand.And they have dubbed this water as the third one called [unclear].And there is a gypsum belt running below it.And it was deposited by the great mother Earth,some three million years ago.And where we have this gypsum stripthey can harvest this water.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:这也是一个干涸的贮水池，现在，你找不到那些kund；他们全部被水淹没了。但是当水位下降时，他们又开始通过那些复杂的结构全年不间断地汲取水分。今年他们只收到了六厘米，六厘米的降雨量，他们会给你打电话如果你在你的城市，德里，孟买，班加罗尔，或者迈索尔遇到了用水的困难，邀请你到我们这个六厘米降雨量的地区，告诉你我们将为你提供水资源。（笑声）
en:This is the same dry water body.Now, you don&#39;t find any kund;they are all submerged.But when the water goes down they will be ableto draw water from those structures throughout the year.This year they have received only six centimeters.Six centimeter of rainfall,and they can telephone youthat if you find any water problem in your city,Delhi, Bombay, Bangalore, Mysore,please come to our area of six centimeters, we can give you water.(Laughter)
时间：11:46
zh-cn:人们是怎么维护他们的？这里有三要素原则：“观念，规划，实事求是”并且要坚守原则。它是一个维护准则，代代相传使用了几个世纪，没有任何政府部门负责管理，没有获得过任何拨款，所以它的秘诀就是“印度语”，尊重。你们自己的东西，不是私人财产，我的财产，任何时候。
en:How they maintain them?There are three things: concept, planning,making the actual thing, and also maintaining them.It is a structure for maintain,for centuries, by generations, without any department,without any funding,So the secret is &quot;[unclear],&quot; respect.Your own thing, not personal property,my property, every time.
时间：12:15
zh-cn:所以，这些石柱将提醒你已经进入了一个贮水池的内部。不要吐痰，不要做任何不该做的事情，以致这些干净的水能够被收集起来。另一个柱子，在你右侧的石柱。如果你向上攀登三、六个台阶，你将会发现一些很美妙的东西。这里被建于11世纪。你必须继续向下走。有人说用千言万语都不足以描绘一幅图画，所以此刻我们可以说上一千个词语，又是一千个词语。如果水位下降，你将会发现新的台阶。当水位上升时，其中的某些部分则将被淹没。所以，在全年里这个美丽的体系将周而复始的为你带来不尽的快乐。贮水池的三面全部由这些台阶构成，在它的第四面有一个四层楼的建筑，你们可以随时在那里组织TED的会议。（掌声）
en:So, these stone pillarswill remind you that you are entering into a water body area.Don&#39;t spit, don&#39;t do anything wrong,so that the clean water can be collected.Another pillar, stone pillar on your right side.If you climb these three, six stepsyou will find something very nice.This was done in 11th century.And you have to go further down.They say that a picture is worth a thousand words,so we can say a thousand words right now,an another thousand words.If the water table goes down,you will find new stairs.If it comes up, some of them will be submerged.So, throughout the yearthis beautiful system will give you some pleasure.Three sides, such steps, on the fourth sidethere is a four-story buildingwhere you can organize such TED conferences anytime.(Applause)
时间：13:19
zh-cn:抱歉，请问是谁建造的这些建筑物？他们就呈现在你们眼前。我们最好的土木工程师，最棒的策划人，最有天赋的建筑设计师。我们可以说正是因为他们，因为他们这些先人，印度才可以在1847年拥有了自己第一个工学院。在那个时候，这里没有英语授课学校，甚至没有北印度语学校，[印度语]学校。但是很多人迫使东印度公司为了做生意来到这里，一种非常肮脏的交易…（笑声）而并不是创建工学院，但正是因为他们，第一个工学院的创建不是在城里，而是在一个小乡村。
en:Excuse me, who built these structures?They are in front of you.The best civil engineers we had, the best planners,the best architects.We can say that because of them,because of their forefathers,India could get the first engineering collegein 1847.There were no English medium schools at that time,even no Hindi schools, [unclear] schools.But such people, compelled to the East India Company,which came here for business, a very dirty kind of business ...(Laughter)but not to create the engineering colleges.But because of them, first engineering college was createdin a small village, not in the town.
时间：14:06
zh-cn:最后一点，我们都知道在小学的课本上写着骆驼是“沙漠之舟”。所以你可以通过你的吉普找到一只骆驼，一个手推车。这个轮胎原本是一个飞机部件。所以，看这些沙漠社会里可以获得雨水的美妙东西，从一个喷气式飞机废弃轮胎被骆驼手推车再次利用，我们还可以看到这个沙漠社会的创造力。
en:The last point, we all know in our primary schools thatthat camel is a ship of desert.So, you can find through your Jeep,a camel, and a cart.This tire comes from the airplane.So, look at the beauty from the desert societywho can harvest rainwater,and also create somethingthrough a tire from a jet plane,and used in a camel cart.
时间：14:38
zh-cn:最后一个图片，是一个刺青，2000年前的刺青。过去被用在人们的身体上。刺青曾经一度是一种被列入黑名单的或者是欺骗事物的象征。但如今它是流行文化。（笑声）（掌声）你可以复制这个刺青图案。我有一些它的大幅海报。（笑声）生活的中心是水。这些是美丽的波纹。这些是我们刚刚在一张幻灯片上见到过的美丽的台阶。这些是树。还有这些带给我们生活芬芳的花朵。所以这就是沙漠的主题思想。非常感谢。（掌声）
en:Last picture, it&#39;s a tattoo,2,000-years-old tattoo.They were using it on their body.Tattoo was, at one time,a kind of a blacklistedor con thing, but now it is in thing.(Laughter)(Applause)You can copy this tattoo. I have some posters of this.(Laughter)The center of life is water.These are the beautiful waves.These are the beautiful stairswhich we just saw in one of the slides.These are the trees.And these are the flowers whichadd fragrance to our lives.So, this is the message of desert.Thank you very much.(Applause)
时间：15:56
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森: 首先，我真诚地希望拥有您超凡的口才，无论是用哪种语言。（掌声）这些人工制造的物品和设计非常地鼓舞人心。您是否相信他们可以被世界其他地方学习并得以利用？或者它只适合这个地方？
en:Chris Anderson: So, first of all, I wish I had your eloquence, truly, in any language.(Applause)These artifacts and designs are inspiring.Do you believe that they can be used elsewhere,that the world can learn from this?Or is this just right for this place?
时间：16:20
zh-cn:阿努帕姆•密斯拉：不，根本的想法是充分利用本地区的降雨资源。所以，那些池塘，开放的水池在每一个地方，从斯里兰卡到克什米尔地区都适合，甚至其他地区也同样适用。还有这些用来储存水的[印度语],他们包括两大类，一类是可再充水的，另一类则是仅用来储存的。所以选择哪一类取决于当地的地形及地质结构。但对于通过石膏带汲水的“kund”，你必须让时间倒转，回到三百万年前，如果那个时候它存在，你现在就可以马上使用它了。否则，它肯定不能使用。（笑声）（掌声）
en:Anupam Mishra: No, the basic idea is toutilize water that falls on our area.So, the ponds, the open bodies, are everywhere,right from Sri Lanka to Kashmir, and in other parts also.And these [unclear], which stored water,there are two type of things.One recharge, and one stores.So, it depends on the terrain.But kund, which uses the gypsum belt,for that you have to go back to your calendar,three million years ago.If it is there it can be done right now.Otherwise, it can&#39;t be done.(Laughter)(Applause)
时间：17:01
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森: 非常感谢。（掌声）
en:CA: Thank you so much.(Applause)
