时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我叫阿尔温德·古普塔。我制作玩具。过去三十年，我一直在制作玩具。七十年代早期的时候我还在学校。那是一个常闹革命的时代当时政局并不稳定——这么说吧，学生们都走上了巴黎街头反抗当局美国则被反越南战争运动和民权运动搞得措手不及我们在印度则有纳萨尔巴里运动和一些别的运动但你知道，当社会上出现政治骚动时，也释放了大量能量印度国民运动就是一个很好的例子许多人辞去了高薪工作转而投入到国民运动中去。就在这七十年代早期在乡镇学校里重振初等科学教育是当时印度的了不起的举措之一。
en:My name is Arvind Gupta, and I&#39;m a toymaker.I&#39;ve been making toys for the last 30 years.The early &#39;70s, I was in college.It was a very revolutionary time.It was a political ferment, so to say —students out in the streets of Paris,revolting against authority.America was joltedby the anti-Vietnam movement, the Civil Rights movement.In India, we had the Naxalite movement,the [unclear] movement.But you know, when there is a political churning of society,it unleashes a lot of energy.The National Movement of Indiawas testimony to that.Lots of people resigned from well-paid jobsand jumped into the National Movement.Now in the early &#39;70s,one of the great programs in Indiawas to revitalizeprimary science in village schools.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:当时有一个叫Anil Sadgopal的分子生物学家从加利福尼亚理工学院拿到了博士学位，并回到了印度前沿科研机构塔塔基础研究学会TIFR。31岁的他没法将他的研究与大众的生命联系起来。于是他设计并创办了一个乡村科学项目这启发了许多人。70年代早期的口号是“走近百姓，与他们一起生活，关爱他们。从他们知道的开始，以他们拥有的为基础。”口号的定义就是这个。
en:There was a person, Anil Sadgopal, did a Ph.D. from Caltechand returned back as a molecular biologistin India&#39;s cutting-edge research institute, the TIFR.At 31, he was not ableto relate the kind of [unclear] research,which he was doing with the lives of the ordinary people.So he designed and went and started a village science program.Many people were inspired by this.The slogan of the early &#39;70swas &quot;Go to the people.Live with them; love them.Start from what they know. Build on what they have.&quot;This was kind of the defining slogan.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:我参加了一年。我加入了塔塔汽車Telco, 在浦那Pune附近制造塔塔牌TATA卡车我在那儿工作了两年然后意识到我不是生来造卡车的。人们经常不知道他们想干什么，但知道自己不想干什么就已经够好了。所以我休假一年并去参加了乡镇科学项目。我的人生就在这里改变了。那是一个很小的村子每周有集市在这一周一次的集市上人们会把东西都放到大染缸里。我说，“我将要在这儿过一年呢！”于是路边卖的所有东西我都买了一件。其中我就发现了这个炭黑橡胶
en:Well I took one year.I joined Telco, made TATA trucks, pretty close to Pune.I worked there for two years,and I realized that I was not born to make trucks.Often one doesn&#39;t know what one wants to do,but it&#39;s good enough to know what you don&#39;t want to do.So I took one year off, and I went to this village science program.And it was a turning point.It was a very small village —a weekly bazaarwhere people, just once in a week, they put in all the vats.So I said, &quot;I&#39;m going to spend a year over here.&quot;So I just bought one specimenof everything which was sold on the roadside.And one thing which I foundwas this black rubber.
时间： 2:08
zh-cn:这个叫气门管给自行车打气的时候，你会用到它这些模型也会用到它所以我们取一点气门管把两个火柴棍放进去，我们就得到了一个灵活的接头我们可以开始教学角形了——锐角，直角，钝角，平角。这是它本身的组合。如果我们有这样的三个，并全都连接起来，我们就有了三角形4个，就有了方形五边形，六边形，所有多边形。而且它们有些很妙的性质比如说六边形，它像个变形虫一样，它可以不停的变化形状我们把这个拉出来，它就成了矩形推一下呢，又变成了平行四边形但它很不稳定再看五边形拉出来，它成了梯形推一下，它又成了屋形它可以变成等腰三角形还是很不稳定这个方形可能看上去很方很整齐轻轻推一下它，就变成了菱形也可以是风筝形但如果给孩子一个三角形他什么也弄不出来
en:This is called a cycle valve tube.When you pump in air in a bicycle, you use a bit of this.And some of these models —so you take a bit of this cycle valve tube,you can put two matchsticks inside this, and you make a flexible joint.It&#39;s a joint of tubes. You start by teaching angles —an acute angle, a right angle, an obtuse angle, a straight angle.It&#39;s like its own little coupling.If you have three of them, and you loop them together,well you make a triangle.With four, you make a square,you make a pentagon, you make a hexagon,you make all these kind of polygons.And they have some wonderful properties.If you look at the hexagon, for instance,it&#39;s like an amoeba, which is constantly changing its own profile.You can just pull this out, this becomes a rectangle.You give it a push, this becomes a parallelogram.But this is very shaky.Look at the pentagon, for instance,pull this out — it becomes a boat shape trapezium.Push it and it becomes house shaped.This becomes an isosceles triangle —again, very shaky.This square might look very square and prim.Give it a little push — this becomes a rhombus.It becomes kite-shaped.But give a child a triangle,he can&#39;t do a thing to it.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:为什么是三角形呢？因为三角形是唯一的坚固结构我们不能用方形来造桥因为当火车开上去的时候，它会开始上下颠簸大部分人都知道这个因为即使在印度的乡村人们可能并没有上过工程学院但没有人会造一个这样的屋顶因为如果那样，当瓦片放上去的时候，它会塌掉人们总是用三角形的屋顶这就是大众科学
en:Why use triangles?Because triangles are the only rigid structures.We can&#39;t make a bridge with squaresbecause the train would come, it would start doing a jig.Ordinary people know about thisbecause if you go to a village in India,they might not have gone to engineering college,but no one makes a roof placed like this.Because if they put tiles on top, it&#39;s just going to crash.They always make a triangular roof.Now this is people science.
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:现在，假使你在这个戳了个洞然后放了第三根火柴你就得到了一个T形连接而如果我在这个三角形的三个顶点上插上这个T形连接的三条边我就有了一个四面体这样一来我们又有了所有立体图形我们做了这样一个四面体一旦有了这些我们就可以搭一个小房子把这个放在顶上也可以连4个。也可以连6个。可以有很多很多这个是，你连接了6个，得到了一个二十面体你可以摆弄它这样就成了一个拱形冰屋现在，时间到了1978年我是一个24岁的青年工程师而我觉得这比造卡车有意义得多（掌声）事实上，如果我们放四颗弹子在里面我们就模仿了甲烷（CH4）的分子结构四面体的四顶点代表四个氢原子这代表碳原子
en:And if you were to just poke a hole over hereand put a third matchstick,you&#39;ll get a T joint.And if I were to poke all the three legs of thisin the three vertices of this triangle,I would make a tetrahedron.So you make all these 3D shapes.You make a tetrahedron like this.And once you make these,you make a little house.Put this on top.You can make a joint of four. You can make a joint of six.You just need a ton.Now this was — you make a joint of six,you make an icosahedron.You can play around with it.This makes an igloo.Now this is in 1978.I was a 24-year-old young engineer.And I thought this was so much better than making trucks.(Applause)If you, as a matter of fact, put four marbles inside,you simulate the molecular structure of methane, CH4.Four atoms of hydrogen, the four points of the tetrahedron,which means the little carbon atom.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:从这时起，我就觉得我应当到我的国家里2000多所学校去乡镇学校，国立学校市立学校，常青藤联盟学校我被大部分学校邀请每次我到一个学校里我看见孩子们眼里闪着光我看见希望，我看见他们脸上的幸福孩子们想制造东西。孩子们想动手做。
en:Well since then,I just thought that I&#39;ve been really privilegedto go to over 2,000 schools in my country —village schools, government schools,municipal schools, Ivy League schools —I&#39;ve been invited by most of them.And every time I go to a school,I see a gleam in the eyes of the children.I see hope. I see happiness in their faces.Children want to make things. Children want to do things.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:现在，我们做了很多很多泵这是一个小型的泵你可以用它来给气球打气它真的能用。你甚至可以把气球弄爆我们还有一句话叫小孩对玩具能做的最好的事就是拆了它所以这就是我们能做的——这听起来很挑衅——老化的自行车内胎和老化的塑料管这个注水盖刚好可以插进这个自行车老内胎里这就是如何做好一个阀门的再在上面贴一个胶带这就变成单向流通的了我们还做非常多非常多的泵这是另一个你只需要一根吸管，然后放一根小棍进去再对半分接下来把这些棱折成三角形你只需要再缠一些带子在上面就有了一个泵如果你有了这个泵它就像一个洒水机一样就像一个离心机当把它旋转起来并洒点东西上去，它们就会满天飞了
en:Now this, we make lots and lots of pumps.Now this is a little pumpwith which you could inflate a balloon.It&#39;s a real pump. You could actually pop the balloon.And we have a sloganthat the best thing a child can do with a toy is to break it.So all you do is —it&#39;s a very kind of provocative statement —this old bicycle tube and this old plastic [unclear]This filling cap will go very snugly into an old bicycle tube.And this is how you make a valve.You put a little sticky tape.This is one-way traffic.Well we make lots and lots of pumps.And this is the other one —that you just take a straw, and you just put a stick insideand you make two half-cuts.Now this is what you do,is you bend both these legs into a triangle,and you just wrap some tape around.And this is the pump.And now, if you have this pump,it&#39;s like a great, great sprinkler.It&#39;s like a centrifuge.If you spin something, it tends to fly out.
时间： 6:04
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:假使你（不清楚）她会用棕榈叶来做这个我们民间玩具中有很多都蕴含着伟大的科学原理如果你旋转某物，它就会飞起来如果我两只手来做这个，你就会看见有趣的飞人先生了对吧这是一个纸制的玩具，叫人赞叹不已。这上面有四幅画你看见昆虫青蛙，蛇，鹰，蝴蝶青蛙，蛇，鹰这是一张能和你一起跳舞的纸它由哈佛的数学家阿瑟·斯通在1928年时发明马丁·加德纳则在他的很多书中写到了它这对孩子们来说是超级好玩的他们都学习食物链昆虫被青蛙吃，青蛙被蛇吃蛇被鹰吃如果你有一张照相纸，或者A4纸，你就能做它你可以是在市立学校，或者国立学校一张纸，一把尺子和一支铅笔就够了，不用胶水也不用剪刀三分钟，你就能折好你能用它做任何你想做的事情如果你用小一点的纸，你就有一个小一点的模型用大一点的纸，就会有一个大一点的模型
en:Well in terms of — if you were in Andhra Pradesh,you would make this with the palmyra leaf.Many of our folk toyshave great science principles.If you spin-top something, it tends to fly out.If I do it with both hands, you can see this fun Mr. Flying Man.Right.This is a toy which is made from paper. It&#39;s amazing.There are four pictures.You see insects,you see frogs, snakes, eagles, butterflies,frogs, snakes, eagles.Here&#39;s a paper which you could [unclear] —designed by a mathematician at Harvard in 1928,Arthur Stone,documented by Martin Gardner in many of his many books.But this is great fun for children.They all study about the food chain.The insects are eaten by the frogs; the frogs are eaten by the snakes;the snakes are eaten by the eagles.And this can be, if you had a whole photocopy paper —A4 size paper —you could be in a municipal school, you could be in a government school —a paper, a scale and a pencil — no glue, no scissors.In three minutes, you just fold this up.And what you could use it for is just limited by your imagination.If you take a smaller paper, you make a smaller flexagon.With a bigger one, you make a bigger one.
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:这是一只铅笔，上面有一些凹槽然后在这儿放上一片扇叶这是个有百岁历史的玩具了目前为止关于它已经有六篇重要论文你还能在这儿看到一些凹线现在我用一个簧片来刮它令人惊叹的发生了有六篇重大论文来讨论它事实上，有个叫费因曼的孩子觉得这个很神奇然后他就写了一篇关于它的论文你不需要一台三十亿美元的强子对撞机就能做这些每个孩子都能玩到每个孩子都玩得很开心如果你想放上一张彩色磁盘七种颜色合在一起这就是牛顿400年前讨论的白光由七色光组成仅仅是转转它而已
en:Now this is a pencil with a few slots over here.And you put a little fan here.And this is a hundred-year-old toy.There have been six major research papers on this.There&#39;s some grooves over here, you can see.And if I take a reed — if I rub this,something very amazing happens.Six major research papers on this.As a matter of fact, Feynman, as a child, was very fascinated by this.He wrote a paper on this.And you don&#39;t need the three billion-dollar Hadron Colliderfor doing this. (Laughter) (Applause)This is there for every child,and every child can enjoy this.If you want to put a colored disk,well all these seven colors coalesce.And this is what Newton talked about 400 years back,that white light&#39;s made of seven colors,just by spinning this around.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:这是一根吸管我们已经把两头用胶带封起来封闭了右上边和左下角所以对角有孔，这儿也有一个小孔这是根吹气管我把它放进去这儿有个洞，我堵上它这几乎不用钱就能做而对孩子们来说却很有趣
en:This is a straw.What we&#39;ve done, we&#39;ve just sealed both the ends with tape,nipped the right corner and the bottom left corner,so there&#39;s holes in the opposite corners, there&#39;s a little hole over here.This is a kind of a blowing straw.I just put this inside this.There&#39;s a hole here, and I shut this.And this costs very little money to make —great fun for children to do.
时间： 8:25
zh-cn:现在要做的是做一个非常简易的电动机这是世界上最简易的电动机电池是它里面最贵的东西如果你有一个电池，制作它只需要5分钱这是一个旧自行车管一根宽宽的橡胶带，两枚保险别针这是一个永磁铁当电流经过线圈，它就成了电磁铁正是这些磁力的相互作用使这个电动机转起来我们做了三万个
en:What we dois make a very simple electric motor.Now this is the simplest motor on Earth.The most expensive thing is the battery inside this.If you have a battery, it costs five cents to make it.This is an old bicycle tube,which gives you a broad rubber band, two safety pins.This is a permanent magnet.Whenever current flows through the coil, this becomes an electromagnet.It&#39;s the interaction of both these magnetswhich makes this motor spin.We made 30,000.
时间： 8:54
zh-cn:老师们教科学已经很长时间了他们把定义们弄混并生硬地讲出来如果老师来做这个，孩子们也做这个你就能看见他们眼里闪着的光他们感到兴奋想知道科学到底都是些什么而科学也不再是一个有钱人的游戏了在一个民主国家科学必须为我们广大群众所了解为广大边缘儿童所了解这个项目从16所学校开始发展到1500所国立学校超过100000名儿童用这样的方式来学习科学我们正试图去看看这可行性。
en:Teachers who have been teaching science for donkey years,they just muck up the definition and they spit it out.When teachers make it, children make it.You can see a gleam in their eye.They get a thrillof what science is all about.And this science is not a rich man&#39;s game.In a democratic country,science must reach to our most oppressed,to the most marginalized children.This program started with 16 schoolsand spread to 1,500 government schools.Over 100,000 children learn science this way.And we&#39;re just trying to see possibilities.
时间： 9:30
zh-cn:看，这是个利乐包所有材料都是环保的他们有六层——三层塑料三层铝——都封在一起了他们都被熔在一起，所以我们没法分离他们现在我们可以就像这样制作一些小的连接体折叠并把它们粘起来就做成了一个二十面体所以这些垃圾这些把海鸟们噎住的废物可以被很愉快的循环利用起来科学里的很多东西都可以做成像这样的玩具
en:Look, this is the tetrapak —awful materials from the point of view of the environment.There are six layers — three layers of plastic, aluminum —which are are sealed together.They are fused together, so you can&#39;t separate them.Now you can just make a little network like thisand fold them and stick them togetherand make an icosahedron.So something which is trash,which is choking all the seabirds,you could just recycle this into a very, very joyous —all the platonic solids can be made with things like this.
时间： 9:59
zh-cn:这是一个小吸管然后你把两个角捏住它变得像小鳄鱼的嘴巴把它放进嘴巴里，吹气（声音）他们说，这让孩子们高兴，让老师嫉妒你没法看见这个声音是如何产生的因为振动的东西正在你的嘴里我把这个留在外面。我将要吸气。（声音）所以事实上没有人需要把声音产生的原理用线振动解释得一团糟另外，你可以一直吹气一直发出声音然后一直剪短它相当有趣的事发生了（声音）（掌声）当你剩很小的一截时（声音）这是孩子们教的，你也能这么做
en:This is a little straw,and what you do is you just nip two corners here,and this becomes like a baby crocodile&#39;s mouth.You put this in your mouth, and you blow.(Honk)It&#39;s children&#39;s delight, a teacher&#39;s envy, as they say.You&#39;re not able to see how the sound is produced,because the thing which is vibrating goes inside my mouth.I&#39;m going to keep this outside, to blow out. I&#39;m going to suck in air.(Honk)So no one actually needs to muck up the production of soundwith wire vibrations.The other is that you keep blowing at it,keep making the sound,and you keep cutting it.And something very, very nice happens.(Honk)(Applause)And when you get a very small one —(Honk)This is what the kids teach you. You can also do this.
时间：11:04
zh-cn:在我讲后面的故事之前，有个东西必需要和你们分享这是给盲童的触摸板这是尼龙线，这是画图板这是我的画笔基本上要有一个胶片盒还要有像钓鱼人的线一样的东西，钓鱼线这是毛线当我转动手柄时，毛线会被转进去一个盲童就可以用这个来画画尼龙毛线签我们的国家有一千两百万盲童（掌声）他们活在黑暗之中这对他们来说是一个很大的恩惠也许在那里有一个工厂使我们的孩子们失明没法给他们提供食物没法给他们维生素A但这对他们来说会是一个天大的恩惠没有专利，所有人都能制造它
en:Well before I go any further,this is something worth sharing.This is a touching slate meant for blind children.This is strips of Velcro, this is my drawing slate,and this is my drawing pen,which is basically a film box.It&#39;s basically like a fisherman&#39;s line,a fishing line.And this is wool over here.If I crank the handle, all the wool goes inside.And what a blind child can do is to just draw this.Wool sticks on Velcro.There are 12 million blind children in our country —(Applause)who live in a world of darkness.And this has come as a great boon to them.There&#39;s a factory out there making our children blind,not able to provide them with food,not able to provide them with vitamin A.But this has come as a great boon for them.There are no patents. Anyone can make it.
时间：11:59
zh-cn:这非常非常简单你看，这是一个发电机，曲柄发电机它有两个磁铁这个大滑轮由两张旧CD夹着橡胶制成小滑轮和两个强磁铁导线连接这一个LED灯当我转动大滑轮时，小的也开始转，但快得多这儿会有一个旋转的磁场磁场线被切割，产生了力你会看见，LED灯亮起来了这个就是小型的曲柄发电机
en:This is very, very simple.You can see, this is the generator. It&#39;s a crank generator.These are two magnets.This is a large pulley made by sandwiching rubber between two old CDs.Small pulley and two strong magnets.And this fiber turns a wire attached to an LED.If I spin this pulley, the small one&#39;s going to spin much faster.There will be a spinning magnetic field.Lines, of course, would be cut, the force will be generated.And you can see, this LED is going to glow.So this is a small crank generator.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:再来看这个，这只是个环，有钢螺母的钢圈你可以做的是，如果你旋转它那么它们就会一直转想象有一群孩子站成一个圈都在等着传这个钢圈他们绝对会玩得很开心
en:Well, this is, again,it&#39;s just a ring, a steel ring with steel nuts.And what you can dois just, if you give it a twirl,well they just keep going on.And imagine a bunch of kidsstanding in a circleand just waiting for the steel ring to be passed on.And they&#39;d be absolutely joyous playing with this.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:最后，我们还可以做的是，我们用旧报纸来做帽子对沙奇·德鲁卡来说这很值这是个很棒的板球帽首先你看到尼赫鲁和甘地这是尼赫鲁帽——只是半张报纸而已我们能用报纸做很多玩具这是其中之一你看这个这个是一只正拍着翅膀的鸟我们把旧报纸都分割成小正方形如果你有这么一只鸟日本小孩折这个鸟已经好多年了像你看到的一样，这是一只小扇尾鸟
en:Well in the end, what we can also do:we use a lot of old newspapersto make caps.This is worthy of Sachin Tendulkar.It&#39;s a great cricket cap. (Laughter) (Applause)When first you see Nehru and Gandhi,this is the Nehru cap — just half a newspaper.We make lots of toys with newspapers,and this is one of them.And this is — you can see —this is a flapping bird.All of our old newspapers, we cut them into little squares.And if you have one of these birds —children in Japan have been making this bird for many, many years.And you can see,this is a little fantail bird.
时间：13:37
zh-cn:那么在最后，让我用一个故事来做结尾这是“船长帽子的故事”船长是一艘航海船的船长船开得很慢船上有很多乘客大家感到很无聊，于是船长邀请他们到甲板去“穿上你们所有鲜艳的衣服，唱歌跳舞吧，我会给你们美食美酒。”船长每天都带着一顶帽子穿着船长服第一天是很大的伞帽就像船长帽一样那天晚上，当乘客们睡觉的时候他折了一下帽子于是第二天成了消防员帽后面还有一个小尖角，像是一顶设计师帽因为这可以保护脊髓然后第二晚，他把这个帽子又折了一下于是第三天成了猎装帽就像是冒险家帽第三晚，他又折了两下这次成了一顶很有名的帽子如果你看过任何我们宝莱坞电影的话这是警察戴的帽子它叫Zapalu帽它在国际上也已经很出名了
en:Well in the end, I&#39;ll just end with a story.This is called &quot;The Captain&#39;s Hat Story.&quot;The captain was a captain of a sea-going ship.It goes very slowly.And there were lots of passengers on the ship,and they were getting bored, so the captain invited them on the deck.&quot;Wear all your colorful clothes and sing and dance,and I&#39;ll provide you with good food and drinks.&quot;And the captain would wear a cap everydayand join in the regalia.The first day, it was a huge umbrella cap,like a captain&#39;s cap.That night, when the passengers would be sleeping,he would give it one more fold,and the second day, he would be wearing a fireman&#39;s cap —with a little shoot just like a designer cap,because it protects the spinal cord.And the second night, he would take the same capand give it another fold.And the third day, it would be a Shikari cap —just like an adventurer&#39;s cap.And the third night, he would give it two more folds —and this is a very, very famous cap.If you&#39;ve seen any of our Bollywood films,this is what the policeman wears,it&#39;s called a zapalu cap.It&#39;s been catapulted to international glory.
时间：14:37
zh-cn:我们不能忘记他是这艘船的船长所以，这是船现在结局来了大家都享受这次旅程人们唱啊跳啊突然间，暴风雨和巨浪袭来船只能随着海浪摆动颠簸一个巨浪打中船头并把它打了下来另一个巨浪打掉了船尾第三个巨浪来了它打掉了指挥室于是船沉了船长什么都没了只剩下救生衣
en:And we must not forget that he was the captain of the ship.So that&#39;s a ship.And now the end:everyone was enjoying the journey very much.They were singing and dancing.Suddenly there was a storm and huge waves.And all the ship can do is to dance and pitch along with the waves.A huge wave comes and slaps the frontand knocks it down.And another one comes and slaps the aft and knocks it down.And there&#39;s a third one over here.This swallows the bridge and knocks it down.And the ship sinks,and the captain has lost everything,but for a life jacket.
时间：15:12
zh-cn:非常感谢
en:Thank you so much.
时间：15:14
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
