时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在17世纪，美国东海岸科德角湾生活着大量的露脊鲸，数量之多，你几乎都能踩着鲸鱼背从海湾的一端走向另一端。如今，他们只剩数百只，属于濒危生物。同露脊鲸一样，许多其他鲸鱼种类的数量也急剧下降，原因就是200年的捕鲸。这期间鲸鱼被猎杀，被猎取鲸鱼肉，鲸鱼油，和鲸鱼骨。
en:In the 1600s, there were so manyright whales in Cape Cod Bayoff the east coast of the U.S.that apparently you couldwalk across their backsfrom one end of the bay to the other.Today, they number in the hundreds,and they&#39;re endangered.Like them, many species of whalessaw their numbers drastically reducedby 200 years of whaling,where they were hunted and killedfor their whale meat, oil and whale bone.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:今天我们的海域中之所以还有鲸鱼，要归功于上世纪70年代的拯救鲸鱼运动。该运动对于阻止商业捕鲸起了重要作用，其基本理念是，如果我们连鲸鱼都拯救不了，我们还能拯救什么？这项运动实质上考验了我们政治能力，阻止环境破坏的政治能力。80年代初，因为这项运动的努力，商业捕鲸被禁止。不过，我们的海域中鲸鱼数量仍旧稀少，因为鲸鱼还面临一系列其他的人类威胁。
en:We only have whales in our waters todaybecause of the Save the Whalesmovement of the &#39;70s.It was instrumental in stoppingcommercial whaling,and was built on the idea thatif we couldn&#39;t save whales,what could we save?It was ultimately a testof our political abilityto halt environmental destruction.So in the early &#39;80s, there wasa ban on commercial whalingthat came into forceas a result of this campaign.Whales in our waters are stilllow in numbers, however,because they do face a rangeof other human-induced threats.
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:很不幸，很多人仍觉得我这样的鲸鱼保护人士是出于鲸鱼的魅力和美丽而保护鲸鱼。这种思维其实会起反作用，因为鲸鱼是生态系统的工程师。它们帮助维护海洋的稳定和健康，甚至还能为人类社会做贡献。
en:Unfortunately, many people still thinkthat whale conservationists like myselfdo what we do only because these creaturesare charismatic and beautiful.This is actually a disservice,because whales are ecosystem engineers.They help maintain the stabilityand health of the oceans,and even provide servicesto human society.
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:让我们来谈谈为什么拯救鲸鱼对保证海洋的自我调节很重要。归根结底是两个主要的东西：鲸鱼粪便和腐烂遗骸。
en:So let&#39;s talk about whysaving whales is criticalto the resiliency of the oceans.It boils down to two main things:whale poop and rotting carcasses.
时间： 2:03
zh-cn:当鲸鱼潜入深海捕食然后浮上海面呼吸时，它们排放出巨量的排泄流。这种所谓的鲸鱼泵能将深海中的稀缺关键养分带到水表，促进浮游生物的生长，而浮游生物是一切海洋食物链的基础。所以，让更多的鲸鱼在海洋中排泄会对整个生态系统都有好处。
en:As whales dive to the depths to feedand come up to the surface to breathe,they actually release theseenormous fecal plumes.This whale pump, as it&#39;s called,actually brings essential limiting nutrients from the depthsto the surface waters where they stimulate the growth of phytoplankton,which forms the baseof all marine food chains.So really, having more whalesin the oceans poopingis really beneficialto the entire ecosystem.
时间： 2:32
zh-cn:鲸鱼还是哺乳动物中迁徙距离最远的之一。美国沿岸的灰鲸每年要迁徙16000公里，来回在营养丰富的捕食水域和营养欠缺的繁殖水域之间。在此过程中，它们的粪便作为肥料被从养分富饶的地方运送到养分稀缺的地方。很显然，鲸鱼在海洋的营养循环中起重要作用，无论是纵向还是横向的营养循环。（译注：纵向是海底到海面，横向是指鲸鱼迁徙）
en:Whales are also known to undertake some of the longest migrations of all mammals.Gray whales off Americamigrate 16,000 kilometersbetween productive feeding areas and lessproductive calving, or birthing, areasand back every year.As they do so, they transport fertilizerin the form of their fecesfrom places that have itto places that need it.So clearly, whales are reallyimportant in nutrient cycling,both horizontally and vertically,through the oceans.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:但非常有意思的是，它们死后也在起重要作用。鲸鱼遗骸是海平面下沉的腐质中最大的之一，它们被称作鲸鱼下沉物。当遗骸下沉时，超过400种生物会迎来它们的大餐，这些生物中包括鳗鱼状的、产生粘液的蒲氏粘盲鳗。所以在200年的捕鲸活动里，我们在匆忙杀戮，从海洋中移除这些遗骸的同时，我们也很可能改变了这些鲸鱼下沉物的产生率和地理分布，而这可能会导致一些专门食用和非常依靠这种遗骸生存的生物的灭绝。
en:But what&#39;s really cool is that they&#39;re also really important after they&#39;re dead.Whale carcasses are some of the largest form of detritusto fall from the ocean&#39;s surface, and they&#39;re called whale fall.As these carcasses sink,they provide a feastto some 400-odd species,including the eel-shaped, slime-producing hagfish.So over the 200 years of whaling,when we were busy killing and removingthese carcasses from the oceans,we likely altered the rate and geographic distribution of these whale fallsthat would descend into deep oceans,and as a result, probably ledto a number of extinctionsof species that were most specializedand dependent on these carcassesfor their survival.
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:鲸鱼遗骸还能从大气层向深海运送大约190000吨的碳，这相当于80000量汽车一年排放的总和。深海被我们称为“碳池”，因为那里能锁住和存储大气中多余的碳，从而帮助减缓全球变暖。有时这些遗骸还被冲刷上海岸，为陆地上一些捕猎生物提供午餐。
en:Whale carcasses are also knownto transport about 190,000 tons of carbon,which is the equivalent of that producedby 80,000 cars per yearfrom the atmosphere to the deep oceans,and the deep oceansare what we call &quot;carbon sinks,&quot;because they trap and holdexcess carbon from the atmosphere,and therefore helpto delay global warming.Sometimes these carcassesalso wash up on beachesand provide a meal to a numberof predatory species on land.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:200年的捕鲸活动明显是有害的，鲸鱼数量减少了60%到90%。拯救鲸鱼运动在阻止商业捕鲸中起了关键作用，但我们需要做一些改进。我们需要面对如今鲸鱼所面临的更当代，更紧迫的问题。其中，我们要防止鲸鱼在繁殖水域中被运输船撞死，还要防止鲸鱼在海洋上游荡时被渔网缠住。我们还需学会将我们的动物保护信息放入合适的语境，以便人们能够真正了解这些生物的真正生态价值。
en:The 200 years of whalingwas clearly detrimentaland caused a reductionin the populations of whalesbetween 60 to 90 percent.Clearly, the Save the Whales movementwas instrumental in preventingcommercial whaling from going on,but we need to revise this.We need to address the more modern,pressing problems that these whales facein our waters today.Amongst other things, we need to stop themfrom getting plowed down by container ships when they&#39;re in their feeding areas,and stop them from gettingentangled in fishing netsas they float around in the ocean.We also need to learn to contextualizeour conservation messages,so people really understand the true ecosystem value of these creatures.
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:让我们再次拯救鲸鱼，这次，我们这样做不仅是为了鲸鱼，我们也是在为我们自己。
en:So, let&#39;s save the whales again,but this time, let&#39;s not just do it for their sake.Let&#39;s also do it for ours.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
