时间： 0:11
zh-cn:致敬(梵文)。致敬(阿拉伯语)。致敬(希伯来语)。 致敬(旁遮普语)。巴基斯坦人民向你们致敬。人们常说我们害怕未知的东西。巴基斯坦也是这样。不管是过去还是现在，它都使很多西方人忧心忡忡，假若仅从社会动荡的角度去看，就更是如此。但巴基斯坦尚有很多不为人知的地方。
en:Namaste. Salaam.Shalom. Sat Sri Akal.Greetings to all of you from Pakistan.It is often said that we fear that which we do not know.And Pakistan, in this particular vein, is very similar.Because it has provoked, and does provoke,a visceral anxiety in the bellies of many a Western soul,especially when viewed through the monochromatic lensof turbulence and turmoil.But there are many other dimensions to Pakistan.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:接下来的照片，是巴基斯坦人自己拍摄的。他们都是年轻有为的摄影家。他们致力于将巴基斯坦的另一面展现于世；他们致力于展现普通民众的心灵。这些是他们与我们分享的内容。
en:And what follows is a stream of images,a series of images captured by some of Pakistan&#39;smost dynamic and young photographers,that aims to give you an alternative glimpse,a look inside the hearts and mindsof some ordinary Pakistani citizens.Here are some of the stories they wanted us to share with you.
时间： 0:59
zh-cn:我叫Abdul Khan来自Peshawar。我希望你能看到的不仅仅是我的塔利班式大胡子，还有我的富足与丰富多彩[的生活]，以及我的认知、抱负与梦想，而不只是我卖的各式花色的书包。
en:My name is Abdul Khan. I come from Peshawar.I hope that you will be able to seenot just my Taliban-like beard,but also the richness and colorof my perceptions, aspirations and dreams,as rich and colorful as the satchels that I sell.
时间： 1:14
zh-cn:我叫Meher，这位是我的朋友Irim，长大后我想当兽医，这样我就能照顾流浪猫和流浪狗了，街上、村里可多流浪的狗和猫了。我住在Gilgit，位于巴基斯坦北部。
en:My name is Meher and this is my friend Irim.I hope to become a vet when I grow upso that I can take care of stray cats and dogswho wander around the streets of the villagethat I live near Gilgit, northern Pakistan.
时间： 1:29
zh-cn:我叫Kailash，我喜欢丰富多彩的生活就如透过五光十色的玻璃[看世界]。夫人，您想来个橙色的手镯吗上面有粉色圆点的那种。
en:My name is Kailash. And I like to enrich livesthrough technicolored glass.Madame, would you like some of those orange bangleswith the pink polka dots?
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:我叫Zamin。是个国内流亡的难民，我来自Swat。你从篱笆的另一面的看到我了吗？我应存于此世界吗？
en:My name is Zamin.And I&#39;m an IDP, an internally displaced person,from Swat.Do you see me on the other side of this fence?Do I matter, or really exist for you?
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:我叫Iman，是个模特，是个来自Lahore的新秀。你看到我简约的遮住全身的衣服了吗？你能看到面纱后的我吗？你能看穿我么？
en:My name is Iman. I am a fashion model,an up-and-coming model from Lahore.Do you see me simply smothered in cloth?Or can you move beyond my veiland see me for who I truly am inside?
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:我叫Ahmed，是个阿富汗难民，我来自Khyber。我来自一个充满黑暗的地方。我想照亮世界。
en:My name is Ahmed. I am an Afghan refugeefrom the Khyber agency.I have come from a place of intense darkness.And that is why I want to illuminate the world.
时间： 2:16
zh-cn:我叫Papusay。我的鼓随心振动。假若宗教是大众的鸦片，音乐就是我唯一的大麻。
en:My name is Papusay.My heart and drum beat as one.If religion is the opium of the masses,then for me, music is my one and only ganja.
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:大浪托起一艘艘船。印度的浪花预示着经济的腾飞。它将托起4亿印度人进入殷实的中产阶级。但还有6.5亿印度人，巴基斯坦人、斯里兰卡人、孟加拉人和尼泊尔人尚挣扎于贫困的谷底。
en:A rising tide lifts all boats.And the rising tide of India&#39;sspectacular economic growthhas lifted over 400 millionIndians into a buoyant middle class.But there are still over 650 million Indians,Pakistanis, Sri Lankans, Bangladeshis, Nepalese,who remain washed up on the shores of poverty.
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:作为印巴人，你与我都应把克服困难，从而来庆祝我们文化的多样性。提升我们共同的人性。我们共同的Naya Jeevan，正如在座的很多位都知道，Naya Jeevan在乌尔都语和印度语中是新生活的意思，让我们重振低收入家庭的生活向他们提供资源提供医保。的确，这是发展中国家第一个针对城市低收入人群的健康维护组织。
en:Therefore as India and Pakistan, as you and I,it behooves us to transcend our differences,to celebrate our diversity,to leverage our common humanity.Our collective vision at Naya Jeevan,which for many of you, as you all recognize,means &quot;new life&quot; in Urdu and Hindi,is to rejuvenate the lives of millions of low income familiesby providing them with affordable accessto catastrophic health care.Indeed it is the emerging world&#39;s firstHMO for the urban working poor.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:为何我们要在行动时划清国界呢？我们骨肉相连。命运息息相关这是我们的荣幸。对于我们中的许多人来说，财富的确埋藏在金字塔底。谢谢。（鼓掌）
en:Why should we do this as Indians and Pakistanis?We are but two threads cut from the same cloth.And if our fates are intertwined,then we believe that it is good karma, it is good fortune.And for many of us, our fortunes do indeed lieat the bottom of the pyramid. Thank you.(Applause)
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:Chris Anderson：太棒了，先别走。棒极了。真的很感人。要知道，为了让巴基斯坦的代表团到场我们尽了一切努力。这真的很重要。他们千辛万苦才来到这儿。请在座的巴基斯坦人站起来。我想向你们致敬。（鼓掌）非常感谢。
en:Chris Anderson: Fantastic. Just stay up here.That was fantastic.I found that really moving.You know, we fought hard to get at leasta small Pakistani contingent to come.It felt like it was really important.They went through a lot to get here.Would the Pakistanis please just stand up please?I just really wanted to acknowledge you.(Applause)Thank you so much.
