时间： 0:11
zh-cn:那是盛夏中的一天，在伯克利市中心的一间酒吧里，我和我的朋友polly在那里当侍应，那会儿酒吧早就打烊了。通常，在交接班后我们都会喝上一杯，但那晚我们却没有喝。“我怀孕了。我还不知道要怎么办，” 我告诉polly。她毫无迟疑地回答我，“我做过人流。”在polly之前，从未有人告诉过我她曾经做过人流。那会儿我刚从大学毕业没几个月，而当我发现自己怀孕时，我正处于一段新的恋爱关系中。当我在思考要如何抉择时，我真的不知如何是好，该采用怎样的标准。我怎么知道什么才是正确的决定？我担心如果我选择人流，将来也许会后悔。我在南加州的海滩上度过了童年，成长在全国性反堕胎浪潮的高峰期。我出生在罗伊诉韦德案胜利三周年之际。我们生活的社区都是基督教徒。我们关心上帝，贫困人群，还有海洋环境。每个人都是反堕胎合法化的拥护者。作为一个孩子，堕胎的想法让我非常难过，所以我知道即便怀孕了，我也永远不会去堕胎。但我却真的这样做了。这使我向未知走近了一步。但polly给了我一个特别的礼物：让我懂得我并不是独自一人，让我意识到堕胎是一个我们可以共同讨论的问题。堕胎，是很正常的事情。根据Guttmacher机构的调查，美国有三分之一的女性会在她们的人生中经历堕胎。但在过去的几十年，在美国，关于堕胎的争论并没有给反对和支持堕胎合法化人群以更多的空间。这是政治化，两极化的。
en:It was the middle of summerand well past closing timein the downtown Berkeley barwhere my friend Polly and Iworked together as bartenders.Usually at the end of our shiftwe had a drink — but not that night.&quot;I&#39;m pregnant.Not sure what I&#39;m goingto do yet,&quot; I told Polly.Without hesitation, she replied,&quot;I&#39;ve had an abortion.&quot;Before Polly, no one had ever told methat she&#39;d had an abortion.I&#39;d graduated from collegejust a few months earlierand I was in a new relationshipwhen I found out that I was pregnant.When I thought about my choices,I honestly did not know how to decide,what criteria I should use.How would I know whatthe right decision was?I worried that I would regret an abortion later.Coming of age on the beachesof Southern California,I grew up in the middle of our nation&#39;s abortion wars.I was born in a trailer on the thirdanniversary of Roe vs. Wade.Our community was surfing Christians.We cared about God, the less fortunate,and the ocean.Everyone was pro-life.As a kid, the idea of abortion made me sosad that I knew if I ever got pregnantI could never have one.And then I did.It was a step towards the unknown.But Polly had given mea very special gift:the knowledge that I wasn&#39;t aloneand the realization that abortionwas something that we can talk about.Abortion is common.According to the Guttmacher Institute,one in three women in Americawill have an abortion in their lifetime.But for the last few decades, the dialoguearound abortion in the United Stateshas left little room for anything beyond pro-life and pro-choice.It&#39;s political and polarizing.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:尽管堕胎的辩论处于白热化，但我们在生活中仍然很少提及，无论是对于女性，还是普通大众，我们都很少相互谈及堕胎的话题。这中间出现了脱节。在政治和真实生活之间，脱节的地方正上演着一场精神上的战争。一个“你们到底支持还是反对我们”的立场已经深入人心。这并不仅仅只是关于堕胎。我们还有太多重要的话题无法谈论。所以寻找把冲突转化为对话的途径就成了我此生的追求。我们可以以两种方式开始。第一种，就是认真倾听。另一种，就是分享故事。所以在15年前，我与人合作创办了叫Exhale的组织，来倾听那些经历过堕胎的人们的故事。我们做的第一件事，就是开启一条谈话热线，让女人和男人们可以打进来寻求精神支持。无关批判和政治， 实话实说以前从来没有过一个像我们这样的组织。我们需要形成一个新的框架去处理在热线上听到的所有故事。后悔堕胎的女权主义者。对堕胎的决定感到庆幸的天主教徒。个人经历本来就无法被清晰地划分为某一类。我们认为让女人只选择一边是不对的。我们想让她们知道，当她们步入这段深刻的个人经历，这个世界是站在她们那一边的。所以我们创造了“支持你的声音”。
en:But as much as abortion is hotly debated,it&#39;s still rare for us,whether as fellow womenor even just as fellow people,to talk with one anotherabout the abortions that we have.There is a gap.Between what happens in politicsand what happens in real life,and in that gap, a battlefield mentality.An &quot;are you with us or against us?&quot; stance takes root.This isn&#39;t just about abortion.There are so many important issues that we can&#39;t talk about.And so finding ways to shift the conflictto a place of conversationis the work of my life.There are two main ways to get started.One way is to listen closely.And the other way is to share stories.So, 15 years ago, I cofoundedan organization called Exhaleto start listening to people who have had abortions.The first thing we did was create a talk-line, where women and mencould call to get emotional support.Free of judgment and politics,believe it or not, nothing like our sevicehad ever existed.We needed a new framework that could hold all the experiences that we werehearing on our talk-line.The feminist who regrets her abortion.The Catholic who is grateful for hers.The personal experiences that weren&#39;t fitting neatly into one box or the other.We didn&#39;t think it was right to ask women to pick a side.We wanted to show them thatthe whole world was on their side,as they were going through this deeplypersonal experience.So we invented &quot;pro-voice.&quot;
时间： 3:57
zh-cn:除了堕胎，“支持你的声音”也致力于全球范围内持续多年的许多棘手的问题，比如移民，宗教包容，针对女性的暴力。它也致力于解决那些可能只涉及你个人，你的家人和朋友的问题。他们有人患了癌症晚期， 有人的母亲刚去世，有人的孩子有特殊需求，但他们无法开口。倾听与分享故事是“支持你的声音”的标签。倾听，分享故事。听上去真好。听上去也许，很简单？我们都能做到。但其实这并不简单，甚至非常困难。运作“支持你的声音”难度很大，因为我们谈论的是大家都在抗争的问题，或没人愿意谈及的话题。我希望能够告诉你们的是，当你决定加入“支持你的声音”，你会发现突破自我的美妙时刻和满是鲜花的花园，倾听和分享故事时会有灵感一现的时刻。我希望能够告诉你们， 会有一个女权主义者的欢迎派对等着你，或者有一个久违了的姐妹会准备好在你遭受打击时在背后支持你。但当讲述自己的故事却感到没人真正关心你的时候，我们会变得很脆弱和心力交瘁。而且，当我们真正在倾听别人的时候，我们会听到需要我们转变看法的事情。从来没有完美的时间和完美的地点去开始一场艰难的对话。从来没有哪一个时刻，所有人都能站在同一战线，分享同一视角，或了解同一段历史。那么，现在我们来讲讲倾听，和如何成为一个优秀的倾听者。有很多种方式可以成为良好的倾听者，我只打算分享其中的几种。一种方法是开放式提问。你可以问你自己或你认识的人“你觉得怎么样？”“那是一个什么样的过程？”“你现在期待的是什么？”另一种成为优秀倾听者的方法是使用反射性语言。当有人谈论他们自己的个人经历时，用他们用过的词。如果有人谈起堕胎并说了“婴儿”，你也可以说“婴儿”。如果她们说“胎儿”，你也可以说“胎儿”。如果有人形容自己是“性取向怪癖者”，你也可以说“性取向怪癖者”。如果有人看起来像个男人，但说自己是女人，也无妨，就称他为女人好了。当我们重复故事分享者说过的语言，我们传达出的是我们有兴趣了解他们是谁，和他们正经历着什么。我们也希望人们能同样想要了解我们。我永远也不会忘记在一次Exhale顾问大会中，一个志愿者讲述了她接到了许多电话，都是来自想要大谈特谈上帝的女基督徒。事实上我们的很多志愿者都有宗教信仰，但这一位却没有。一开始，接电话的志愿者对上帝这个话题感到很诡异。所以，她决定先让自己感到舒服。于是她站在家中的镜子前，说了“上帝”这个词。“上帝”“上帝”“上帝”“上帝”“上帝”“上帝”一遍又一遍，直到这个词从她口中说出来不再变得奇怪。讲出“上帝”这个词并不会把这名志愿者变成一个基督徒，但却会让她成为女性基督教徒更好的倾听者。那么，还有一种支持别人声音的方法就是分享故事，当你向别人分享故事时，这当中有一个风险，就是当别人处于和你同样的处境时，他们也许会做出不同的决定。举个例子。当你谈论你的堕胎经历时，会意识到她当初可能选择把孩子生下来了。她也许让别人去收养这个孩子。她也许告诉了父母或伴侣，也可能没有。她也许感到释怀或自信， 即使你觉得悲伤和迷茫。这都没关系。当我们想象自己正经历着别人的处境，同情心就会油然而生。这并不意味着我们都要最后达成一致。这不是一个协议，“支持你的声音“并不推崇千篇一律。它创造了一个认可我们独特性和唯一性的文化和社会。它在乎是什么让我们成为人，以及我们的错误和不完美。这种思维方式让我们能带着尊重去看待我们之间的不同，而不是恐惧。而且它激发了我们所需的同情心，击败了我们尝试伤害他人的举动。耻辱，羞愧，偏见，歧视，压抑。”支持你的声音“富有感染性，参与的人越多，就传播得越广。去年，我又一次怀孕了。这一次，我非常期待我儿子的出生。而在我怀孕期间，我从没被问过那么多次“你觉得怎样”。（笑声）而无论我如何回答，无论我感觉棒级了，兴奋极了，还是恐慌到快要崩溃了，总会有人对我说“我会陪着你”。这感觉真太好了。这让我在经历过堕胎的复杂感受后，人生又迎来了新的起点，迎接我的是充满问候和惊喜的未来。“支持你的声音”关心的都是真人真事，他们造成的影响使得堕胎这个话题，以及其他很多被政治化的，被玷污的话题都得以被理解和讨论。从性和心理健康，到贫困和监禁。与其用单一的对或错的决定来定义，我们的经历更应该存在于某一个范畴内。“支持你的声音”关注那些关于人类体验的对话，而且它让支持和尊重对所有人都成为了可能。谢谢大家。（鼓掌）
en:Beyond abortion, pro-voice works on hardissues that we&#39;ve struggled with globallyfor years,issues like immigration, religioustolerance, violence against women.It also works on deeply personal topics that might only matter to youand your immediate family and friends.They have a terminal illness, their mother just died,they have a child with special needsand they can&#39;t talk about it.Listening and storytelling arethe hallmarks of pro-voice practice.Listening and storytelling.That sounds pretty nice.Sounds maybe, easy?We could all do that.It&#39;s not easy.It&#39;s very hard.Pro-voice is hard because we are talkingabout things everyone&#39;s fighting aboutor the things that no one wants to talk about.I wish I could tell you that when you decide to be pro-voice, that you&#39;ll findbeautiful moments of breakthrough and gardens full of flowers,where listening and storytellingcreates wonderful &quot;a-ha&quot; moments.I wish I could tell you that there wouldbe a feminist welcoming party for you,or that there&#39;s a long-lost sisterhoodof people who are just readyto have your back when you get slammed.But it can be vulnerable and exhausting to tell our own storieswhen it feels like nobody cares.And if we truly listen to one another,we will hear things that demandthat we shift our own perceptions.There is no perfect timeand there is no perfect placeto start a difficult conversation.There&#39;s never a time when everyone will beon the same page, share the same lens,or know the same history.So, let&#39;s talk about listeningand how to be a good listener.There&#39;s lots of ways to be a good listenerand I&#39;m going to give you just a couple.One is to ask open-ended questions.You can ask yourself or someone that you know,&quot;How are you feeling?&quot;&quot;What was that like?&quot;&quot;What do you hope for, now?&quot;Another way to be a good listener is to use reflective language.If someone is talking abouttheir own personal experience,use the words that they use.If someone is talking about an abortionand they say the word &quot;baby,&quot;you can say &quot;baby.&quot;If they say &quot;fetus,&quot;you can say &quot;fetus.&quot;If someone describes themselvesas gender queer to you,you can say &quot;gender queer.&quot;If someone kind of looks like a he,but they say they&#39;re a she — it&#39;s cool.Call that person a she.When we reflect the language of the personwho is sharing their own story,we are conveying that we are interestedin understanding who they areand what they&#39;re going through.The same way that we hope people are interested in knowing us.So, I&#39;ll never forget being in one of the Exhale counselor meetings,listening to a volunteer talk about howshe was getting a lot of callsfrom Christian women who were talking about God.Now, some of our volunteers are religious,but this particular one was not.At first, it felt a little weird for her to talk to callers about God.So, she decided to get comfortable.And she stood in front of her mirror at home, and she said the word &quot;God.&quot;&quot;God.&quot;&quot;God.&quot;&quot;God.&quot;&quot;God.&quot;&quot;God.&quot;&quot;God.&quot;Over and over and over againuntil the word no longer felt strangecoming out her mouth.Saying the word God did not turn this volunteer into a Christian,but it did make her a much better listener of Christian women.So, another way to be pro-voiceis to share stories,and one risk that you take on, when youshare your story with someone else,is that given the sameset of circumstances as youthey might actuallymake a different decision.For example, if you&#39;re telling a story about your abortion,realize that she might have had the baby.She might have placed for adoption.She might have told her parents and her partner — or not.She might have felt relief and confidence,even though you felt sad and lost.This is okay.Empathy gets created the moment weimagine ourselves in someone else&#39;s shoes.It doesn&#39;t mean we all have to end up in the same place.It&#39;s not agreement, it&#39;s not samenessthat pro-voice is after.It creates a culture and a society that values what make us special and unique.It values what makes us human,our flaws and our imperfections.And this way of thinking allows us to seeour differences with respect,instead of fear.And it generates the empathy that we needto overcome all the waysthat we try to hurt one another.Stigma, shame, prejudice, discrimination, oppression.Pro-voice is contagious,and the more it&#39;s practicedthe more it spreads.So, last year I was pregnant again.This time I was looking forward to the birth of my son.And while pregnant, I had never been askedhow I was feeling so much in all my life.(Laughter)And however I replied, whether I wasfeeling wonderful and excitedor scared and totally freaked out,there was always someone theregiving me a &quot;been there&quot; response.It was awesome.It was a welcome, yet dramaticdeparture from what I experiencewhen I talk aboutmy mixed feelings of my abortion.Pro-voice is about the real storiesof real peoplemaking an impact on the way abortionand so many other politicizedand stigmatized issuesare understood and discussed.From sexuality and mental healthto poverty and incarceration.Far beyond definitionas single right or wrong decisions,our experiences can exist on a spectrum.Pro-voice focuses that conversationon human experienceand it makes support and respectpossible for all.Thank you.(Applause)
