时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是一个计算机科学教授我的专业领域是计算机与信息安全当我还在研究生院的时候我有次听见了我祖母向她的一位高龄同乡描述我的工作。没想到，她说我的工作是确保学校的计算机不被小偷偷走(笑声)但你也会觉得她这么想是完全合理的因为我告诉她我工作内容是计算机安全，但是能够得知她的观点真的很有趣。
en:I&#39;m a computer science professor,and my area of expertise iscomputer and information security.When I was in graduate school,I had the opportunity to overhear my grandmotherdescribing to one of her fellow senior citizenswhat I did for a living.Apparently, I was in charge of making sure thatno one stole the computers from the university. (Laughter)And, you know, that&#39;s a perfectly reasonable thingfor her to think, because I told her I was workingin computer security,and it was interesting to get her perspective.
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:但这并不是我所听过对我工作最离谱的叙述。我听过最谱奇的版本是，我在一个晚宴上，然後有一位女士听说我是负责计算机安全的，于是她问我如果－她的电脑感染了病毒，所以她十分担心自己会因此而生病，会感染到这个病毒(笑声)虽然我不是个医生，但我向她再三保证这种事不可能会发生但如果她还是不放心，她或许可以考虑在用电脑的时候带着橡胶手套，而且这无论如何都是无害的。
en:But that&#39;s not the most ridiculous thing I&#39;ve ever heardanyone say about my work.The most ridiculous thing I ever heard is,I was at a dinner party, and a woman heardthat I work in computer security,and she asked me if — she said her computer had beeninfected by a virus, and she was very concerned that shemight get sick from it, that she could get this virus. (Laughter)And I&#39;m not a doctor, but I reassured herthat it was very, very unlikely that this would happen,but if she felt more comfortable, she could be free to uselatex gloves when she was on the computer,and there would be no harm whatsoever in that.
时间： 1:24
zh-cn:我一会儿会回过头来谈谈这种能够被自己电脑的病毒感染的想法，用一个更严肃的角度来谈今天我要讲的是一些在我领域，学术研究界的人员所进行大多人所不知的黑客活动和一些真实世界的网络攻击，我觉得它们既有意思又可怕，而这次的演说就有点像是学术的安全共同体中的经典黑客案例这些都不是我个人的工作。这全部都是我同事做的，而我其实还向他们要了一些幻灯片并把它们加到我的演讲里。
en:I&#39;m going to get back to this notion of being able to geta virus from your computer, in a serious way.What I&#39;m going to talk to you about todayare some hacks, some real world cyberattacks that peoplein my community, the academic research community,have performed, which I don&#39;t thinkmost people know about,and I think they&#39;re very interesting and scary,and this talk is kind of a greatest hitsof the academic security community&#39;s hacks.None of the work is my work. It&#39;s all workthat my colleagues have done, and I actually asked themfor their slides and incorporated them into this talk.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:那么，我要讲的第一个案例就是植入性医疗器械。当今的医疗器械是经历了一段很长的科技发展。你可以看到，第一款心脏起搏器发明于1926年。1960年，第一个体内心脏起搏器被植入，希望是比大家在这看到的要小一些，之后，这方面的技术一直在不断地发展。到了2006年，我们迎来了一个重要的里程碑，对于电脑安全而言。那我为什么这么说呢？那是因为这正是植入人体的器械开始具备联网能力的时候。一件带我们回主题的事就是当我们看到迪克·切尼的仪器，他拥有一可以将血液从一个大动脉输送到心脏的另一个部分的仪器，就如你在底部所看到的，它是被一个电脑控制器所控制的，如果你认为软件责任非常重大的话，你可以给自己装一个这个。
en:So the first one I&#39;m going to talk aboutare implanted medical devices.Now medical devices have come a long way technologically.You can see in 1926 the first pacemaker was invented.1960, the first internal pacemaker was implanted,hopefully a little smaller than that one that you see there,and the technology has continued to move forward.In 2006, we hit an important milestone from the perspectiveof computer security.And why do I say that?Because that&#39;s when implanted devices inside of peoplestarted to have networking capabilities.One thing that brings us close to home is we lookat Dick Cheney&#39;s device, he had a device thatpumped blood from an aorta to another part of the heart,and as you can see at the bottom there,it was controlled by a computer controller,and if you ever thought that software liabilitywas very important, get one of these inside of you.
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:现在有一支研究团队所做的就是得到了一个被称作 ICD 的器件。(植入型心律转复除颤器)这是一个复除颤器，而且这是个用在人体体内来控制他们心率的仪器，而且这仪器还救过不少人的命。那麽，为了不用每次给装置重新编程或者进行某些其他的检测的时候都要剖开病人的胸腔，他们让这个装置可以无线通讯，而这个研究团队所做的就是对无线协议做逆向工程，并制作出你现在所看到的图中所显示的仪器，它还有一个小天线用于与设备进行交流，从而进行操控。为了让他们的试验更真实－他们无法找到任何志愿者，所以他们找来一些牛肉馅儿和培根肉弄成一个大小和人体内安放这个装置差不多大小的区域，然后他们把这个装置放了进去从而使他们的实验近乎真实。他们进行了很多很多成功的攻击。我特别想重点讲一下的是他们成功地修改了病人的姓名信息。我不清楚为什么有人要这么做 ，但是我肯定不愿意有人对我这么做。他们还能够更改治疗方案，包括使设备失效－而这些都发生在一个真的营利的、市场上能买到的心率仪上 —仅仅是通过反向破解以及向其发送无线指令就能实现。
en:Now what a research team did was they got their handson what&#39;s called an ICD.This is a defibrillator, and this is a devicethat goes into a person to control their heart rhythm,and these have saved many lives.Well, in order to not have to open up the personevery time you want to reprogram their deviceor do some diagnostics on it, they made the thing be ableto communicate wirelessly, and what this research team didis they reverse engineered the wireless protocol,and they built the device you see pictured here,with a little antenna, that could talk the protocolto the device, and thus control it.In order to make their experience real — they were unableto find any volunteers, and so they wentand they got some ground beef and some baconand they wrapped it all up to about the sizeof a human being&#39;s area where the device would go,and they stuck the device inside itto perform their experiment somewhat realistically.They launched many, many successful attacks.One that I&#39;ll highlight here is changing the patient&#39;s name.I don&#39;t know why you would want to do that,but I sure wouldn&#39;t want that done to me.And they were able to change therapies,including disabling the device — and this is with a real,commercial, off-the-shelf device —simply by performing reverse engineering and sendingwireless signals to it.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:NPR 上曾经有过一则新闻报到了(美国国家公共广播电台)一些ICD的运行甚至可以被放在其上面的一副耳机扰乱
en:There was a piece on NPR that some of these ICDscould actually have their performance disruptedsimply by holding a pair of headphones onto them.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:如今，无线技术和互联网能够大大改善医疗服务屏幕上显示的几个例子是一些医生要为病人体内植入医疗装置的情况，而现今所有这方面的仪器，无线联网已经成为了标准配备，我认为这很了不起，但是如果没有全面的了解和可靠的计算，和没有认识到攻击行为所造成的影响以及固有的安全隐患，这就会带来很多危险。
en:Now, wireless and the Internetcan improve health care greatly.There&#39;s several examples up on the screenof situations where doctors are looking to implant devicesinside of people, and all of these devices now,it&#39;s standard that they communicate wirelessly,and I think this is great,but without a full understanding of trustworthy computing,and without understanding what attackers can doand the security risks from the beginning,there&#39;s a lot of danger in this.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:好的，让我换个机械向你们展示另外一个攻击对象。我将向你们展示几个类似的攻击对象，它们是我演讲的主要部分。我们接下来看看汽车。
en:Okay, let me shift gears and show you another target.I&#39;m going to show you a few different targets like this,and that&#39;s my talk. So we&#39;ll look at automobiles.
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:这是一辆车，它拥有很多组成部分，如今还拥有许多的电子零件。事实上，它里面有很多很多台不同的电脑，它所拥有的奔腾处理器比我大学时期的实验室里的还多，而且这些电脑之间是由内部线路相连。车内也有一个无线网络，它可以通过不同的方式与外界相连。包含了蓝牙，有FM广播和XM广播，甚至还有wi-fi，车轮里面有传感器可以通过无线网络监测轮胎气压并传输给控制板。现代汽车是非常复杂的多电脑设备
en:This is a car, and it has a lot of components,a lot of electronics in it today.In fact, it&#39;s got many, many different computers inside of it,more Pentiums than my lab did when I was in college,and they&#39;re connected by a wired network.There&#39;s also a wireless network in the car,which can be reached from many different ways.So there&#39;s Bluetooth, there&#39;s the FM and XM radio,there&#39;s actually wi-fi, there&#39;s sensors in the wheelsthat wirelessly communicate the tire pressureto a controller on board.The modern car is a sophisticated multi-computer device.
时间： 5:25
zh-cn:那如果有人想攻击这台设备的话会发生什么呢？这就是今天我演讲中的研究者们所做的。他们很根本地在汽车的有线和无线网络上都安装了攻击装置。现在，他们可以通过两种方式进行攻击。一种是短程无线网络，这样你可以直接和附近的装置进行通信，比如通过蓝牙或 wi-fi，另一个是远程网络，让你可以通过移动网络或者通过某个无线电电台与车进行通信。想想看。当一辆汽车接收到无线电信号，软件会对这信号进行处理。这软件必需对信号进行接收和解码从而弄明白如何进行处理，即便那只是电台音乐，而那进行解码的软件，如果存有任何漏洞，就有机会让他人入侵汽车的电脑系统中。
en:And what happens if somebody wanted to attack this?Well, that&#39;s what the researchersthat I&#39;m going to talk about today did.They basically stuck an attacker on the wired networkand on the wireless network.Now, they have two areas they can attack.One is short-range wireless, where you can actuallycommunicate with the device from nearby,either through Bluetooth or wi-fi,and the other is long-range, where you can communicatewith the car through the cellular network,or through one of the radio stations.Think about it. When a car receives a radio signal,it&#39;s processed by software.That software has to receive and decode the radio signal,and then figure out what to do with it,even if it&#39;s just music that it needs to play on the radio,and that software that does that decoding,if it has any bugs in it, could create a vulnerabilityfor somebody to hack the car.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:研究人员试验的方法就是，他们读取了车内电脑芯片中的软件之后他们运用复杂的反向破解工具来弄明白了这个软件的功能，并且找到了软休的漏洞，之后他们利用这些漏洞建造后门。他们真的在现实生活中试验了这些攻击。他们买了两辆车，我猜他们的经费比我要宽裕一些。第一个攻击计划是想看看一个人能在攻击者得到许可进入汽车的内部网络时做些什麽。好的，假设有一个人可以接近你的车，在车中做了一些手脚，然后离开，那现在，你会遇到些什么麻烦呢？另一个计划是他们通过无线网络进行实时交流就像手机或是其他类似的方式，根本不需要跟你的车有任何的物理上的接触。
en:The way that the researchers did this work is,they read the software in the computer chipsthat were in the car, and then they used sophisticatedreverse engineering toolsto figure out what that software did,and then they found vulnerabilities in that software,and then they built exploits to exploit those.They actually carried out their attack in real life.They bought two cars, and I guessthey have better budgets than I do.The first threat model was to see what someone could doif an attacker actually got accessto the internal network on the car.Okay, so think of that as, someone gets to go to your car,they get to mess around with it, and then they leave,and now, what kind of trouble are you in?The other threat model is that they contact youin real time over one of the wireless networkslike the cellular, or something like that,never having actually gotten physical access to your car.
时间： 7:05
zh-cn:这是他们第一个模型设置的样子，在这他们可以接触到车。他们放了一个笔记本电脑，并把它连接到车内部网络的诊断单元，他们利用这些做了各种各样好玩的把戏，像这张车速表的照片在车静止的情况下显示每小时140英里。当你控制住车内电脑系统，你可以做任何事。你也许会觉得，“这只是搞笑而已。”那如果你让车总是显示比真正的速度慢了20英里每小时呢？这样会拿到很多超速罚单。
en:This is what their setup looks like for the first model,where you get to have access to the car.They put a laptop, and they connected to the diagnostic uniton the in-car network, and they did all kinds of silly things,like here&#39;s a picture of the speedometershowing 140 miles an hour when the car&#39;s in park.Once you have control of the car&#39;s computers,you can do anything.Now you might say, &quot;Okay, that&#39;s silly.&quot;Well, what if you make the car always sayit&#39;s going 20 miles an hour slower than it&#39;s actually going?You might produce a lot of speeding tickets.
时间： 7:33
zh-cn:之后他们开了两辆车到一个废弃的简易机场，一辆目标车，一辆追踪车，他们并进行了更多其他的攻击。其中一件可以从追踪车里做到的是在目标车中进行刹车，这只需要侵入目标车的电脑就可以了。他们可以废掉刹车系统。他们还可以安装一些恶意软件要在车子做出特定的指令下，比方说车速在20英里每小时或类似的指令才会启动。这个结果非常的震撼，而当他们做这个演讲时，即使是在一个充满电脑安全研究人员的会议，所有人都难以之信。他们成功的控制了车内很多重要的电脑系统：刹车系统，照明系统，发动机，仪表盘，无线电台，等等，而且他们可以在他们所购买的商务车中利用无线网络来做这些事情。他们可以妥協每一个操控每一项车内无线功能的软件。所有的实验都成功的实施了。
en:Then they went out to an abandoned airstrip with two cars,the target victim car and the chase car,and they launched a bunch of other attacks.One of the things they were able to do from the chase caris apply the brakes on the other car,simply by hacking the computer.They were able to disable the brakes.They also were able to install malware that wouldn&#39;t kick inand wouldn&#39;t trigger until the car was doing something likegoing over 20 miles an hour, or something like that.The results are astonishing, and when they gave this talk,even though they gave this talk at a conferenceto a bunch of computer security researchers,everybody was gasping.They were able to take over a bunch of critical computersinside the car: the brakes computer, the lighting computer,the engine, the dash, the radio, etc.,and they were able to perform these on real commercialcars that they purchased using the radio network.They were able to compromise every single one of thepieces of software that controlled every single oneof the wireless capabilities of the car.All of these were implemented successfully.
时间： 8:35
zh-cn:你要怎样去偷这类型的车呢？首先你从内部软件缓冲区溢出的漏洞开始侵入，就像这样。你再用车内置的导航器确定它的位置。再用电脑遥控打开车门，启动发动机，绕过防盗系统，这样你就弄到了一辆车。
en:How would you steal a car in this model?Well, you compromise the car by a buffer overflowof vulnerability in the software, something like that.You use the GPS in the car to locate it.You remotely unlock the doors through the computerthat controls that, start the engine, bypass anti-theft,and you&#39;ve got yourself a car.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:监控是很有意思的。这个研究的作者们有一个影像显示他们侵入一辆车，然后打开车内的话筒，听著车内的声音并同时用导航器跟踪车的位置，而这些是车的司机绝对不会知道的。
en:Surveillance was really interesting.The authors of the study have a video where they showthemselves taking over a car and then turning onthe microphone in the car, and listening in on the carwhile tracking it via GPS on a map,and so that&#39;s something that the drivers of the carwould never know was happening.
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:我吓到你们了吗？我还有几个很有趣的实验。这些是我从一个我去过的会议所知道的，我当时惊呆了，我说“我得跟其他人分享这个信息。”
en:Am I scaring you yet?I&#39;ve got a few more of these interesting ones.These are ones where I went to a conference,and my mind was just blown, and I said,&quot;I have to share this with other people.&quot;
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:这是北卡大学 Fabian Monrose 教授的实验室，他们做的实验是一个当你看了之后会觉得很直观，但也会很惊讶的实验。他们录下了在公车上的人们，然后后期处理这些视频。你在一号所看到的是在输入手机的某人的眼镜中所反射出来的智慧型手机映像。他们编了一个软件来稳定 —即使他们在公车上或是有人会把手机摆在一个特殊的角度 —来稳定这个手机，处理它，你也许知道，当你在智慧型手机上输入密码时，对应键会放大一点，因此他们可以利用这一点去重组那个人所输入的东西，还有一个语言模型去检测输入行为。有意思的是，利用公车上的录像他们可以准确无误的得到他人在手机上输入什么，之后他们还发现了一个意外结果，就是他们的软件不但会对他们的目标进行处理，也可以对那些意外入镜的人进行分析出那些人都输入了什么，而这些是这软件进行中所得到的意外收获。
en:This was Fabian Monrose&#39;s labat the University of North Carolina, and what they did wassomething intuitive once you see it,but kind of surprising.They videotaped people on a bus,and then they post-processed the video.What you see here in number one is areflection in somebody&#39;s glasses of the smartphonethat they&#39;re typing in.They wrote software to stabilize —even though they were on a busand maybe someone&#39;s holding their phone at an angle —to stabilize the phone, process it, andyou may know on your smartphone, when you typea password, the keys pop out a little bit, and they were ableto use that to reconstruct what the person was typing,and had a language model for detecting typing.What was interesting is, by videotaping on a bus,they were able to produce exactly what peopleon their smartphones were typing,and then they had a surprising result, which is thattheir software had not only done it for their target,but other people who accidentally happenedto be in the picture, they were able to producewhat those people had been typing, and that was kind ofan accidental artifact of what their software was doing.
时间：10:26
zh-cn:我再给你们看两个例子。一个是P25无线电。P25无线电是执法部门和种种政府机构以及战场上的人们交流所使用的，而这些电话里都会有加密选项。这电话就是长这个样子。这不是真正的电话。它比较像是双向无线电。摩托罗拉是这电话的最大生产商，你也会看到它们是被秘密机构以及战场上所使用，它在美国和其他地方都非常~非常的常见的标准。所以研究员们自问的一个问题就是可以阻止这个东西~~~吧？可以执行拒绝服务吗？因为这些都是抢险救生员。那么，恐怖组织会想要阻断警察和火警的紧急联系功能吗？他们发现有个叫GirlTech的信息设备所使用的频道和 P25 是一样的，然後他们建造了一个叫&quot;我的第一干扰&quot;。（笑声）如果你仔细看这个设备，这里有个开关可以切换加密或是明文。让我先到下一页，然後现在我再回去。你看到那差异了吗？这是明文，这是加密。屏幕上出现一个小点，而开关也转了一点点。那些研究员们就自问，“我猜想有多少非常保密的，重要的，敏感的谈话是在这些他们忘记加密而且没有注意到这回事的双向无线电的情况下进行呢?
en:I&#39;ll show you two more. One is P25 radios.P25 radios are used by law enforcementand all kinds of government agenciesand people in combat to communicate,and there&#39;s an encryption option on these phones.This is what the phone looks like. It&#39;s not really a phone.It&#39;s more of a two-way radio.Motorola makes the most widely used one, and you can seethat they&#39;re used by Secret Service, they&#39;re used in combat,it&#39;s a very, very common standard in the U.S. and elsewhere.So one question the researchers asked themselves is,could you block this thing, right?Could you run a denial-of-service,because these are first responders?So, would a terrorist organization want to black out theability of police and fire to communicate at an emergency?They found that there&#39;s this GirlTech device used for textingthat happens to operate at the same exact frequencyas the P25, and they built what they calledMy First Jammer. (Laughter)If you look closely at this device,it&#39;s got a switch for encryption or cleartext.Let me advance the slide, and now I&#39;ll go back.You see the difference?This is plain text. This is encrypted.There&#39;s one little dot that shows up on the screen,and one little tiny turn of the switch.And so the researchers asked themselves, &quot;I wonder howmany times very secure, important, sensitive conversationsare happening on these two-way radios where they forgetto encrypt and they don&#39;t notice that they didn&#39;t encrypt?&quot;
时间：11:50
zh-cn:他们买了一个扫描仪。这些都是完全合法的他们并在P25的频率下运行这扫描仪，之後他们在这个频率周围不停地转动然後用他们所写的软件来监听。如果他们找到了加密的对话，他们就停留在那个频道，然后写下这是那些人交流的频道，那些执法机构，他们去了20个大都市区监听这些频道上的所进行的对话。他们发现在每一个大都会区他们每天都能捕捉到至少20分钟的明文交流。那他们都交流些什么呢？他们得到了秘密举报人的名字和信息。他们得到了正在被窃听的信息，一堆正在被讨论的犯罪案件，敏感的消息。大多数都是执法和犯罪类的。他们向执法机构说明了这件事，当然是在匿名之后，而当中的漏洞很纯粹的只是用户界面不够好。如果你是在讨论一些非常保密或者敏感话题，你应该清楚的知道这个谈话是被加密的。这个很容易修正。
en:So they bought a scanner. These are perfectly legaland they run at the frequency of the P25,and what they did is they hopped around frequenciesand they wrote software to listen in.If they found encrypted communication, they stayedon that channel and they wrote down, that&#39;s a channelthat these people communicate in,these law enforcement agencies,and they went to 20 metropolitan areas and listened inon conversations that were happening at those frequencies.They found that in every metropolitan area,they would capture over 20 minutes a dayof cleartext communication.And what kind of things were people talking about?Well, they found the names and informationabout confidential informants. They found informationthat was being recorded in wiretaps,a bunch of crimes that were being discussed,sensitive information.It was mostly law enforcement and criminal.They went and reported this to the law enforcementagencies, after anonymizing it,and the vulnerability here is simply the user interfacewasn&#39;t good enough. If you&#39;re talkingabout something really secure and sensitive, it shouldbe really clear to you that this conversation is encrypted.That one&#39;s pretty easy to fix.
时间：12:56
zh-cn:最后一例子我认为是非常，非常的牛，所以我必须得给你们看这个，这可能不是一些会使你们失眠的东西，像是汽车实验和心脏去颤器那样，但这个是窃取击键。至今，我们都彻底的观察过智慧型手机。每个安全专家都想要侵入这样的手机系统，而我们一般都会去看USB插头，跟踪GPS，相机，话筒，但目前为止没有人看过加速规。加速规是那个决定手机垂直方向的东西。因此他们有个很简单的设置。他们把手机放在键盘旁边，然後他们让人们去打字，而他们的目标是利用打字而产生的震动去测量加速规的数据的变化由此来判断这个人输入的是什么。那么当他们在用iPhone 3GS做这实验时，这是他们从打字所得到的扰动图，而你可以了解到这是很难判断什么时候有人在打字或者他们打过了什么字，但是iPhone 4在加速规上有很大的提高，因此同样的测量所得到的图是这样的。这么现在有人在打字时就会给出更多的信息了，那他们接下来用了一个先进的人工智能技术，称作&quot;机器学习&quot;来进行一个培训阶段，然后他们极有可能是找了一些研究生去输入一大堆的东西，然后去学习，让这个系统利用已有的机器学习工具去了解这些人输入的是什么并结合了加速规所测量的数据。接下来就是攻击阶段了，你找一些人来输入一些东西，但是你不知道输入的是什麽但你利用之前在培训中所编写的模式来得出输入的内容。他们有很好的成功几率。这是一篇出至《今日美国》的文章。他们输入了“伊利诺伊州最高法院裁定伊曼纽尔拥有参加芝加哥市长竞选的资格”－看，我结合了上一个演讲－“并且命令他必需留在选票上”。这个系统很有趣，因为它分析出了“伊利诺伊州最高” 而之后的它就不确定了。这个模式给了一堆的选择，这也就是人工智能技术厉害的地方，也就是电脑在某方面很在行，而人类则是在别的方面很强，结合双方的优势，并让人类去解决这一个问题。不去浪费电脑的周期。一个人是不会认为那会是 &quot;最高可能&quot; 。当然是&quot;最高法院&quot;，对吧？也因此，人们和机器一起可以只测量加速规的数据来得出打出来的内容。这有什么重要的呢？好吧，用安卓平台来举个例子，开发者们有一个清单，当中的每一个设备，像是麦克风等等，都需要注册，如果有你要用它好让黑客无法侵入它的话，但是没人控制加速规。
en:The last one I thought was really, really cool,and I just had to show it to you, it&#39;s probably not somethingthat you&#39;re going to lose sleep overlike the cars or the defibrillators,but it&#39;s stealing keystrokes.Now, we&#39;ve all looked at smartphones upside down.Every security expert wants to hack a smartphone,and we tend to look at the USB port, the GPS for tracking,the camera, the microphone, but no one up till this pointhad looked at the accelerometer.The accelerometer is the thing that determinesthe vertical orientation of the smartphone.And so they had a simple setup.They put a smartphone next to a keyboard,and they had people type, and then their goal wasto use the vibrations that were created by typingto measure the change in the accelerometer readingto determine what the person had been typing.Now, when they tried this on an iPhone 3GS,this is a graph of the perturbations that were createdby the typing, and you can see that it&#39;s very difficultto tell when somebody was typing or what they were typing,but the iPhone 4 greatly improved the accelerometer,and so the same measurementproduced this graph.Now that gave you a lot of information while someonewas typing, and what they did then is used advancedartificial intelligence techniques called machine learningto have a training phase,and so they got most likely grad studentsto type in a whole lot of things, and to learn,to have the system use the machine learning tools thatwere available to learn what it is that the people were typingand to match that upwith the measurements in the accelerometer.And then there&#39;s the attack phase, where you getsomebody to type something in, you don&#39;t know what it was,but you use your model that you createdin the training phase to figure out what they were typing.They had pretty good success. This is an article from the USA Today.They typed in, &quot;The Illinois Supreme Court has ruledthat Rahm Emanuel is eligible to run for Mayor of Chicago&quot;— see, I tied it in to the last talk —&quot;and ordered him to stay on the ballot.&quot;Now, the system is interesting, because it produced&quot;Illinois Supreme&quot; and then it wasn&#39;t sure.The model produced a bunch of options,and this is the beauty of some of the A.I. techniques,is that computers are good at some things,humans are good at other things,take the best of both and let the humans solve this one.Don&#39;t waste computer cycles.A human&#39;s not going to think it&#39;s the Supreme might.It&#39;s the Supreme Court, right?And so, together we&#39;re able to reproduce typingsimply by measuring the accelerometer.Why does this matter? Well, in the Android platform,for example, the developers have a manifestwhere every device on there, the microphone, etc.,has to register if you&#39;re going to use itso that hackers can&#39;t take over it,but nobody controls the accelerometer.
时间：15:36
zh-cn:那重点在那呢？你可以把你的iPhone放在某人的键盘旁边，然后就离开房间，之后再回来复原他们所做过的事，就连麦克风都不需要。如果有人能够把入侵软件装入你的iPhone，他们也就可能得到你所输入的内容，每当你把你的iPhone放在你的键盘旁边。
en:So what&#39;s the point? You can leave your iPhone next tosomeone&#39;s keyboard, and just leave the room,and then later recover what they did,even without using the microphone.If someone is able to put malware on your iPhone,they could then maybe get the typing that you dowhenever you put your iPhone next to your keyboard.
时间：15:51
zh-cn:另外还有几个值得注意的攻击，但我很不幸的没有时间去说，但有一个我想点出的是在密西根大学的一组人员，他们成功的侵入了投票机，这是 Sequoia AVC Edge DRE (美国最大的电子投票机制造商之一)准备在新泽西州选举中用，它被留在了一个走廊里，他们在里面安装了吃豆人游戏。他们安装了吃豆人游戏，所以呢？
en:There&#39;s several other notable attacks that unfortunatelyI don&#39;t have time to go into, but the one that I wantedto point out was a group from the University of Michiganwhich was able to take voting machines,the Sequoia AVC Edge DREs thatwere going to be used in New Jersey in the electionthat were left in a hallway, and put Pac-Man on it.So they ran the Pac-Man game.
时间：16:10
zh-cn:这些都有什么意义呢？我觉得我们的社会往往很快的采用新技术我非常喜欢下一个最炫的小玩意儿。但是更重要的是，这些研究人员所显示的，这些东西的开发者需要从一开始就把安全考虑在内，也需要意识到它们可能会有的威胁模型，但是那些攻击者也许不会好心到只把他们局限于这些威胁模型中，所以你需要跳脱传统思维。
en:What does this all mean?Well, I think that society tends to adopt technologyreally quickly. I love the next coolest gadget.But it&#39;s very important, and these researchers are showing,that the developers of these thingsneed to take security into account from the very beginning,and need to realize that they may have a threat model,but the attackers may not be nice enoughto limit themselves to that threat model,and so you need to think outside of the box.
时间：16:35
zh-cn:我们所能做得就是要意识到设备是可以被妥协的，而任何有软件的东西都是会有弱点的。它们是会有错误的。非常感谢。（掌声）
en:What we can do is be awarethat devices can be compromised,and anything that has software in itis going to be vulnerable. It&#39;s going to have bugs.Thank you very much. (Applause)
