时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我的祖父是一个工匠。那时候，他手工定制鞋。我从没见过他，他在犹太人大屠杀中逝世。但我承传了他对手工制作的挚爱，虽说挚爱程度远不如他的高。你们知道，虽然工业革命极大程度地改善了人们的生活，但它使我祖父挚爱的手工制作技能消亡，而且我们也知道，它让手工工艺衰微。
en:My grandfather was a cobbler.Back in the day, he made custom-made shoes.I never got to meet him.He perished in the Holocaust.But I did inherit his love for making,except that it doesn&#39;t exist that much anymore.You see, while the Industrial Revolutiondid a great deal to improve humanity,it eradicated the very skillthat my grandfather loved,and it atrophied craftsmanship as we know it.
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:但是这一切却是由于 3D 打印改变的开始于这个小东西这是 3D 打印打印出来的第一件物品。它的年龄比 TED 大一些，它是由 3D 打印的发明者查克•赫尔在 1983 年打印出来的。但今天我想跟你们谈的、想跟你们讨论的伟大理念，不是 3D 打印将引领我们走向未来，而是 3D 打印事实上将我们与传统连接起来，而且它将开辟一个新的时代，即基于数字化制造的兼具本地化与分散化的制造业时代。
en:But all of that is about to change with 3D printing,and it all started with this,the very first partthat was ever printed.It&#39;s a little older than TED.It was printed in 1983by Chuck Hull,who invented 3D printing.But the thing that I want to talk to you about today,the big idea that I want to discuss with you,is not that 3D printingis going to catapult us into the future,but rather that it&#39;s actually goingto connect us with our heritage,and it&#39;s going to usher in a new eraof localized, distributed manufacturingthat is actually basedon digital fabrication.
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:想一些日常用品吧。你们都知道自己鞋子的尺码，但有多少人知道鼻梁的尺寸，或者太阳穴之间的距离？有人吗？如果你能前所未有地戴上不是由镜框、镜架组装成的，完美贴合脸部的眼镜，岂不是很酷吗？很有可能的是，镜架永远不会断裂。3D 打印的应用，远不止我们鼻梁上的眼镜。
en:So think about useful things.You all know your shoe size.How many of you know the sizeof the bridge of your noseor the distance between your temples?Anybody?Wouldn&#39;t it be awesome if you could,for the first time, get eyewearthat actually fits you perfectlyand doesn&#39;t require any hinge assembly,so chances are, the hinges are not going to break?But the implications of 3D printinggo well beyond the tips of our noses.
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:当我第一次遇到阿曼达，她虽然腰部以下瘫痪，已经能站立并走几步，但她向我抱怨，这身衣服不舒服。这是一套由 Ekso Bionics 公司制作的机器人套装，但不是为她量身打造的，并没有测量她的尺寸。所以她请我为她做一身更女性化一点、看起来更优雅一点、更轻的套装。我们模仿裁缝，为她数字化量身定做。我们做到了，为她做了一件令人惊奇的套装。
en:When I met Amanda for the first time,she could already stand up and walk a little biteven though she was paralyzed from the waist down,but she complained to me that her suitwas uncomfortable.It was a beautiful robotic suitmade by Ekso Bionics,but it wasn&#39;t inspired by her body.It wasn&#39;t made to measure.So she challenged me to make her somethingthat was a little bit more feminine,a little bit more elegant,and lightweight,and like good tailors,we thought that we would measure her digitally.And we did. We built her an amazing suit.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:我从这个故事中感受到的一件不可思议的事情是，我们很多人看到 3D 打印后，会对自己说，它会颠覆传统。阿曼达看到它后说，这对我而言是一个机会，让我重新变得美丽，感受到真实的自己。你知道吗？她现在不只是想站起来了，她想穿高跟鞋呢。
en:The incredible part about what I learnedfrom Amanda is a lot of us are looking at 3D printingand we say to ourselves,it&#39;s going to replace traditional methods.Amanda looked at it and she said,it&#39;s an opportunity for meto reclaim my symmetryand to embrace my authenticity.And you know what? She&#39;s not standing still.She now wants to walk in high heels.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:远不止这些，3D 打印正在改变我们所了解的个性化医疗器械，从全新、美观、适形的透气性脊柱侧凸背带，到无数烤瓷牙，再到美观的假肢支撑，这是重新发自内心找回自我的又一机会。如今，在这坐着时，你可以戴上不含丝线的牙齿矫正器或者烤瓷牙。数以百万计的耳内助听器是由 3D 打印印制的。每天有数以百万计的人因 3D 打印受惠。以你自己的数据和尺寸，做全膝关节置换手术，工具都是 3D 打印出来的，感觉如何？通用电气公司正在用 3D 打印技术制作下一代 LEAP 系列发动机，能节约大概15% 的能耗，为航空公司节约大概 1400 万美金。对通用电气来说是好消息，是吧？对其客户、环境来说也是好消息。但是，你知道的，更好的消息是，3D 打印不再是大公司独享的技术。Planetary Resources（公司名），一家太空探索的新兴公司，正准备在今年晚些时候发射其第一个空间探测器，该探测器规模比 NASA 的小，成本自然也低不少，其活动部件的数量不足十二个，在今年晚些时候就要送上太空。谷歌公司正非常大胆地开展一项计划，开发Project Ara模块化手机。若没有高速 3D 打印技术，这是不可能实现的，3D 打印史无前例将地让模块化、可用的部件的生产变为现实。一个 3D 打印出的，真正的月球探测器。
en:It doesn&#39;t stop there.3D printing is changingpersonalized medical devices as we know them,from new, beautiful, conformal,ventilated scoliosis bracesto millions of dental restorationsand to beautiful bracingsfor amputees,another opportunity to emotionally reconnectwith your symmetry.And as we sit here today,you can go wireless on your braceswith clear aligners,or your dental restorations.Millions of in-the-ear hearing aidsare already 3D printed today.Millions of people are served todayfrom these devices.What about full knee replacements,from your data, made to measure,where all of the tools and guides are 3D printed?G.E. is using 3D printingto make the next generation LEAP enginethat will save fuel to the tuneof about 15 percentand cost for an airlineof about 14 million dollars.Good for G.E., right?And their customers and the environment.But, you know, the even better newsis that this technology is no longer reservedfor deep-pocketed corporations.Planetary Resources, a startupfor space explorationsis going to put out its first space probe later this year.It was a fraction of a NASA spaceship,it costs a fraction of its cost,and it&#39;s made with less than a dozen moving parts,and it&#39;s going to be out in space later this year.Google is taking on this very audacious projectof making the block phone, the Ara.It&#39;s only possible because of the developmentof high-speed 3D printing that for the first timewill make functional, usable modulesthat will go into it.A real moonshot, powered by 3D printing.
时间： 5:39
zh-cn:食物呢？如果我们能前所未有地制作像这只TED小熊一样的的不可意思的美味，将会怎么样？如果 3D 打印能颠覆如饮用苦艾酒的体验，将会怎么样？如果我们能任意地添加颜色、口味到任何食物，那么不仅可以定制美食，还能个性化营养成分，将会怎么样？
en:How about food?What if we could, for the first time,make incredible delectableslike this beautiful TED Teddy here,that are edible?What if we could completelychange the experience,like you see with that absinthe servingthat is completely 3D printed?And what if we could begin to put ingredientsand colors and flavors in every taste,which means not only delicious foodsbut the promise of personalized nutritionaround the corner?
时间： 6:21
zh-cn:这让我想到了 3D 打印为我们带来的最大的恩惠之一，凭借 3D 打印，我们不再为复杂买单。打印最基本的图样，或是最复杂的图样，对 3D 打印机来说是一样的。这会完全改变我们熟知的设计和制造业。很多人认为 3D 打印会敲响我们熟知的制造业消亡的钟声。我想这正是将未来的技术交给今年的孩子们的机会，3D 打印将创造，创造无数的工作机会，并且有了 3D 打印技术每个人都可以成为制作专家和制造专家。这将需要新的工具。并不是每个人都会用 CAD 制图软件，所以我们在开发触觉感知设备，它可以让你亲手触摸和感知你的设计，就好像在玩「数字粘土」。当你这样设计时，我们还设计了拍完实物照片立马就能打印出来的设备，这会让制造变得容易，但除了这些想象不到的，也有一些未预料到到的事情，像随处可见的假货，还有无处不在的非法占有。
en:And that gets me to one of thebiggest deals about 3D printing.With 3D printing, complexity is free.The printer doesn&#39;t careif it makes the most rudimentary shapeor the most complex shape,and that is completely turning designand manufacturing on its head as we know it.Many people think that 3D printing will bethe end of manufacturing as we know it.I think that it&#39;s the opportunity to puttomorrow&#39;s technology in the hands of youngstersthat will create endless abundanceof job opportunities,and with that,everybody can become an expert makerand an expert manufacturer.That will take new tools.Not everybody knows how to use CAD,so we&#39;re developing haptics,perceptual devicesthat will allow you to touchand feel your designsas if you play with digital clay.When you do things like that,and we also developed things that takephysical photographs that are instantly printable,it will make it easier to create content,but with all of the unimagined,we will also have the unintended,like democratized counterfeitingand ubiquitous illegal possession.
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:很多人问我，每个家庭都有会一台 3D 打印机吗？我想问题不该这么问。应该问的问题是，3D 打印将会怎样改变我的生活？或者，换句话说，我家里哪间房适合安放 3D 打印机？
en:So many people ask me,will we have a 3D printer in every home?I think it&#39;s the wrong question to ask.The right question to ask is,how will 3D printing change my life?Or, in other words, what room in my housewill 3D printing fit in?
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:这里你看到的一切都是3D 打印打印出来的，包括这些阿姆斯特丹时装秀上的鞋子。这不再是我祖父那个年代鞋子的意义了，这是这代表了高本地化的制造业的鞋子，延续了我祖父对手工制作的热情。我的祖父没机会看到耐克为近期超级碗打印的鞋子，我的父亲没机会看到脚踏 3D 打印的鞋子的我。他三年前过世了。但查克•赫尔，这位发明 3D 打印的人，今天就在这屋子里，谢谢他，我想说，谢谢他的发明，我想说，我也是一个工匠，脚踏这双鞋，是向过去致敬，也是在创造未来。
en:So everything that you see herehas been 3D printed,including these shoesat the Amsterdam fashion show.Now, these are not my grandfather&#39;s shoes.These are shoes that representthe continuation of his passionfor hyper-local manufacturing.My grandfather didn&#39;t get to see Nikeprinting cleats for the recent Super Bowl,and my father didn&#39;t get to see me standingin my hybridized 3D printed shoes.He passed away three years ago.But Chuck Hull, the man that invented it all,is right here in the house today,and thanks to him,I can say, thanks to his invention, I can saythat I am a cobbler too,and by standing in these shoesI am honoring my pastwhile manufacturing the future.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
