时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是一个旅游企业家以及和平建设者，不过我并不是一开始就做这行的。在我7岁那年，我记得在电视上看到别人丢石头，我在想：这一定很好玩！于是我走到大街上去丢石头，而我不知道的是，我应该向以色列的车丢石头，而我却砸了我邻居的车。（笑声）他们对我的这个爱国之举很无语。
en:I&#39;m a tourism entrepreneurand a peacebuilder,but this is not how I started.When I was seven years old,I remember watching televisionand seeing people throwing rocks,and thinking, this must bea fun thing to do.So I got out to the streetand threw rocks,not realizing I was supposedto throw rocks at Israeli cars.Instead, I ended up stoningmy neighbors&#39; cars. (Laughter)They were not enthusiasticabout my patriotism.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:这是我跟我哥哥的照片。小的这个是我，我知道你在想什么：“你小时候挺可爱的，怎么长成了这样？”我的哥哥，他比我大一些，在他18岁的时候被捕了，他因丢石头被关进了监狱。当他拒绝承认他丢石头的时候，他遭到了猛打，结果他受了很严重了内伤，导致他出狱不久后就死了。
en:This is my picture with my brother.This is me, the little one,and I know what you&#39;re thinking:&quot;You used to look cute,what the heck happened to you?&quot;But my brother, who is older than me,was arrested when he was 18,taken to prison on chargesof throwing stones.He was beaten up when he refusedto confess that he threw stones,and as a result, had internal injuriesthat caused his death soon afterhe was released from prison.
时间： 1:07
zh-cn:我很生气，很愤愤不平，我只想报复。
en:I was angry, I was bitter,and all I wanted was revenge.
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:不过这在我18岁的时候发生了改变。我决定我需要学好希伯来语并找到一份工作，去课堂学习希伯来语让我第一次见到不是士兵的犹太人。我们很快找到了很多共同点，比如我爱乡村音乐，虽然这在巴勒斯坦人中是很罕见的。这段经历让我意识到我们之间有一睹由愤怒、仇恨和无知筑成的墙。我意识到在我身上发生什么并不重要，重要的是我如何看待面对它。于是，我决定把自己的生命花在拆除这堵把我们分开的墙上。
en:But that changed when I was 18.I decided that I neededHebrew to get a job,and going to study Hebrewin that classroomwas the first time I ever met Jewswho were not soldiers.And we connected over really small things,like the fact that I love country music,which is really strangefor Palestinians.But it was then that I realized alsothat we have a wall of anger,of hatred and of ignorancethat separates us.I decided that it doesn&#39;t matterwhat happens to me.What really matters is how I deal with it.And therefore, I decidedto dedicate my lifeto bringing down the wallsthat separate people.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:我有几个不同的途径。旅游是其中一个，还有媒体和教育，你可能在想：真的吗？旅游能改变什么呢？它能拆除这些墙吗？是的！旅游是最好的拆除这些墙的可持续途径，旅游可以成为连接对方和创造友谊的可持续途径。
en:I do so through many ways.Tourism is one of them,but also media and education,and you might be wondering,really, can tourism change things?Can it bring down walls? Yes.Tourism is the best sustainable wayto bring down those wallsand to create a sustainable wayof connecting with each otherand creating friendships.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:在2009年，我帮助创办了Mejdi 旅游（Mejdi Tours），一个旨在把人与人连接起来的社会企业，对了，我是跟两个犹太朋友一起创办的。我们是这样做的，比如在耶路撒冷，我们会有两个导游，一个以色列人和一个巴勒斯坦人，一起提供讲解，从完全不同的角度讲解历史、发生的故事、考古和冲突。我记得和一个朋友 Kobi 一起讲解，这是给来自芝加哥的一个犹太人团队讲解，地点在耶路撒冷，我们把他们带到了一个难民区，一个巴勒斯坦难民区，在那里我们吃了无比美味的食物。对了，这是我的妈妈。她人很好。这是巴勒斯坦食物 maqluba，意思是“上下颠倒”。这是把米饭和鸡肉放在一起煮，然后再倒过来，真是人间美味。我们会一起吃饭，接着我们有一个联合乐队，以色列和巴勒斯坦音乐人一起，我们还跳了肚皮舞。如果你不知道怎么跳，我可以等下教你。等到我们离开的时候，所有的人都哭了，因为他们不想离开。三年过去了，这些友谊还在。
en:In 2009, I cofounded Mejdi Tours,a social enterprise thataims to connect people,with two Jewish friends, by the way,and what we&#39;ll do, the model we did,for example, in Jerusalem,we would have two tour guides,one Israeli and one Palestinian,guiding the trips together,telling history and narrativeand archaeology and conflictfrom totally different perspectives.I remember running a trip togetherwith a friend named Kobi —Jewish congregation from Chicago,the trip was in Jerusalem —and we took them to a refugee camp,a Palestinian refugee camp,and there we had this amazing food.By the way, this is my mother. She&#39;s cool.And that&#39;s the Palestinianfood called maqluba.It means &quot;upside-down.&quot;You cook it with rice and chicken,and you flip it upside-down.It&#39;s the best meal ever.And we&#39;ll eat together.Then we had a joint band,Israeli and Palestinian musicians,and we did some belly-dancing.If you don&#39;t know any,I&#39;ll teach you later.But when we left, both sides,they were crying becausethey did not want to leave.Three years later, thoserelationships still exist.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:请跟我一起想象一下如果10亿人——也就是世界上每年旅行的人数，都这样旅行，不是坐在大巴上从一个目的地到另一个目的地，从一个酒店到另一个酒店，在大巴上透过窗户拍窗外的人们和文化，而是融入到当地的人和文化里面。
en:Imagine with meif the one billion peoplewho travel internationally every year travel like this,not being taken in the busfrom one side to another,from one hotel to another,taking pictures from the windowsof their buses of people and cultures,but actually connecting with people.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:我记得一个来自英国的穆斯林团，进入到一个正统的犹太教家庭里面，他们吃了他们的第一顿星期五的安息日晚饭，一起吃犹太食物 hamin，也就是杂烩，并在不久后意识到一百年前，他们的祖先是从北非的同一个地方走出来的。这不是一张你用来放在脸书上的头像照片，这不是灾区旅游，这是未来的旅游，我邀请你加入我们来改变你的旅游。我们现在正在世界各地倡导这种旅游，从爱尔兰到伊朗再到土耳其，我们可以看到我们必将散播各地改变世界。
en:You know, I remember havinga Muslim group from the U.K.going to the houseof an Orthodox Jewish family,and having their first Friday nightdinners, that Sabbath dinner,and eating together hamin,which is a Jewish food, a stew,just having the connectionof realizing, after a while,that a hundred years ago,their families came outof the same place in Northern Africa.This is not a photo profilefor your Facebook.This is not disaster tourism.This is the future of travel,and I invite you to join me to do that,to change your travel.We&#39;re doing it all over the world now,from Ireland to Iran to Turkey,and we see ourselves goingeverywhere to change the world.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:谢谢！
en:Thank you.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
