时间： 0:11
zh-cn:两年以前，作为一位艺术家我被邀请参加一个纪念伊斯兰艺术在欧洲100周年的展览。馆长只提出了一个条件：我必须用阿拉伯语做作品的脚本。现在，作为一位艺术家，一个女人，一个阿拉伯人，或者一个生活在2010年的人，我只想说一件事：我想说不。在阿拉伯语里，要说”不“，我们会说”不，和一千个不。“
en:Two years ago, I was invited as an artistto participate in an exhibition commemorating100 years of Islamic art in Europe.The curator had only one condition:I had to use the Arabic script for my artwork.Now, as an artist, a woman, an Arab,or a human being living in the world in 2010,I only had one thing to say:I wanted to say no.And in Arabic, to say &quot;no,&quot; we say &quot;no,and a thousand times no.&quot;
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:所以我决定在所有伊斯兰或者阿拉伯在过去的1400年里生产的东西里面找到一千个不同的不，始于西班牙，止于中国边境。我把我的工作成果收集到一本书里，按着时间排序，标上名字，作者，材质，和日期。现在，这本书放在装置旁边的一个小架子上，3米乘7米，在德国慕尼黑，2010年9月。
en:So I decided to look for a thousand different noes.on everything ever producedunder Islamic or Arab patronage in the past 1,400 years,from Spain to the borders of China.I collected my findings in a book,placed them chronologically, stating the name,the patron, the medium and the date.Now, the book sat on a small shelf next to the installation,which stood three by seven meters, in Munich, Germany,in September of 2010.
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:现在，2011年1月，革命开始了，生活停滞了18天，在2月12日，我们在开罗的大街上天真地庆祝，以为革命已经成功了。
en:Now, in January, 2011, the revolution started,and life stopped for 18 days,and on the 12th of February,we naively celebrated on the streets of Cairo,believing that the revolution had succeeded.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:9个月以后我在解放广场上喷通知。这样做的原因是我在自己的新鲜事里看到的这个图片。我觉得在一个人们被杀然后被像垃圾一样扔到街上的城市里我活不下去。所以我把开罗伊斯兰博物馆里一个墓碑上的“不”拿了下来，然后加了一句话：”对军事统治说不。“然后我开始把它喷在开罗的大街上。但是它引发了一系列的不，像弹药一样从书里出来，然后我给他们加一些话，再喷到墙上。所以我会和你们分享其中的一些不。
en:Nine months later I found myself spraying messagesin Tahrir Square. The reason for this actwas this image that I saw in my newsfeed.I did not feel that I could live in a citywhere people were being killedand thrown like garbage on the street.So I took one &quot;no&quot; off a tombstone fromthe Islamic Museum in Cairo, and I added a message to it:&quot;no to military rule.&quot;And I started spraying that on the streets in Cairo.But that led to a series of no, coming out of the booklike ammunition, and adding messages to them,and I started spraying them on the walls.So I&#39;ll be sharing some of these noes with you.
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:“对新的法老说不“，因为不管是谁来都应该明白我们绝不会再屈服于一个独裁者的统治了。
en:No to a new Pharaoh, because whoever comes nextshould understand that we will never be ruled by another dictator.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:&quot;对暴力说不&quot;，Ramy Essam在革命的第二天来到解放广场，然后他坐在那弹吉他唱歌。穆巴拉克下台之后的一个月，这就是他的奖励。
en:No to violence: Ramy Essam came to Tahriron the second day of the revolution,and he sat there with this guitar, singing.One month after Mubarak stepped down, this was his reward.
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:&quot;对英雄致盲说不&quot;，Ahmed Harara在1月28日失去了他的右眼，然后他在11月19日失去了他的左眼，被两个不同的狙击兵袭击。
en:No to blinding heroes. Ahmed Harara lost his right eyeon the 28th of January,and he lost his left eye on the 19th of November,by two different snipers.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:”对残杀说不“，在这个情况里对杀害宗教人士说不，因为Sheikh Ahmed Adina Refaat在12月16日的一个示威中被枪杀，留下三个孤儿和一个寡妇。
en:No to killing, in this case no to killing men of religion,because Sheikh Ahmed Adina Refaat was shoton December 16th, during a demonstration,leaving behind three orphans and a widow.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:”对焚书说不“，埃及学院在12月17日被烧，这是一个巨大的文化损失。
en:No to burning books. The Institute of Egypt was burnedon December 17th, a huge cultural loss.
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:”对非礼人民说不“，这个蓝色的胸罩提醒着我们作为一个国家的耻辱，一个戴面纱的妇女被脱了衣服在街上殴打。这个足迹说，“和平革命万岁，”因为我们绝不以暴力反击。
en:No to stripping the people,and the blue bra is to remind us of our shameas a nation when we allow a veiled woman to be strippedand beaten on the street, and the footprint reads,&quot;Long live a peaceful revolution,&quot;because we will never retaliate with violence.
时间： 3:29
zh-cn:”对隔离墙说不“。在2月5日，开罗树起了水泥路障，保护国防部，阻挡反对者。
en:No to barrier walls. On February 5th,concrete roadblocks were set up in Cairoto protect the Ministry of Defense from protesters.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:现在，说到墙，我想和你们分享一面在开罗的墙的故事。一群艺术家决定在一面墙上画一个和实物一样大的坦克。在坦克前面有个人骑着自行车，头上有个面包篮。对任何路人来说，这个形象没有问题。在暴力袭击之后，另外一个艺术家过来，画了鲜血，反对者被坦克碾压，示威者，还有这样一句话，“从明天开始，我代表一个新的形象，每一位烈士的形象。我存在。”当局来了，把墙刷白，留下坦克和一句话：“军队和人民，一只手。埃及为埃及人。”另外一个艺术家来了，把军队的头画成一个怪物，在血流中吃一个少女，在坦克前面。当局来了，把墙刷白，留下坦克，泼了一桶黑墨遮住怪物的脸。所以我来了，把我的信息喷到坦克上，整个墙上，然后这就是这面墙现在的样子。如果它再有变化，我会通知你们。”笑声“
en:Now, speaking of walls, I want to share with you the storyof one wall in Cairo.A group of artists decided to paint a life-size tankon a wall. It&#39;s one to one.In front of this tank there&#39;s a man on a bicyclewith a breadbasket on his head. To any passerby,there&#39;s no problem with this visual.After acts of violence, another artist came,painted blood, protesters being run over by the tank,demonstrators, and a message that read,&quot;Starting tomorrow, I wear the new face,the face of every martyr. I exist.&quot;Authority comes, paints the wall white,leaves the tank and adds a message:&quot;Army and people, one hand. Egypt for Egyptians.&quot;Another artist comes, paints the head of the militaryas a monster eating a maiden in a river of bloodin front of the tank.Authority comes, paints the wall white, leaves the tank,leaves the suit, and throws a bucket of black paintjust to hide the face of the monster.So I come with my stencils, and I spray them on the suit,on the tank, and on the whole wall,and this is how it stands todayuntil further notice. (Laughter)
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:现在，我想用一个最后的不来结尾。我在Tahrir一家战地医院里找到一张写有Neruda笔迹的纸，然后我决定用一个开罗的Mamluk Mausoleum的不。它是这样写的，（阿拉伯语）“你可以毁掉所有的花朵，但是你不能延迟春天的脚步。”
en:Now, I want to leave you with a final no.I found Neruda scribbled on a piece of paperin a field hospital in Tahrir, and I decided to take a no ofMamluk Mausoleum in Cairo.The message reads,[Arabic]&quot;You can crush the flowers, but you can&#39;t delay spring.&quot;
时间： 5:28
zh-cn:谢谢。（掌声）（掌声）谢谢。Shukran。（阿语“谢谢”）（掌声）
en:Thank you. (Applause)(Applause)Thank you. Shukran. (Applause)
