时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我一生都为巨型蓝鳍金枪鱼的美丽、外形和机能所着迷。蓝鳍金枪鱼像我们一样是恒温动物。他们是体型最大的金枪鱼，海洋中的第二大的硬骨鱼。他们实际上是一种温血动物—以充满温血的肌肉（如同哺乳动物一样）横扫海洋那是在蒙特雷湾水族馆中的一种蓝鳍金枪鱼。你看它的形状和它流线型的设计使得它在海洋中游刃有余。靠着它的胸鳍，它在海洋中飞翔，上下沉浮，新月状的鱼尾更增进了它的行动能力。实际上它的大部分身体都是裸露着的皮肤，这样减小了与水的摩擦阻力。这是自然界最棒的机器之一。
en:I&#39;ve been fascinated for a lifetimeby the beauty, form and functionof giant bluefin tuna.Bluefin are warmblooded like us.They&#39;re the largest of the tunas,the second-largest fish in the sea — bony fish.They actually are a fishthat is endothermic —powers through the ocean with warm muscles like a mammal.That&#39;s one of our bluefin at the Monterey Bay Aquarium.You can see in its shape and its streamlined designit&#39;s powered for ocean swimming.It flies through the ocean on its pectoral fins, gets lift,powers its movementswith a lunate tail.It&#39;s actually got a naked skin for most of its body,so it reduces friction with the water.This is what one of nature&#39;s finest machines.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:蓝鳍金枪鱼在整个人类历史中都受到人们的尊敬。4000年来，我们以可持续性的方式对它们进行捕捞，几千年前的艺术品可以充分的证明这一点。在法国，蓝鳍金枪鱼出现在洞穴壁画中。它们早在3000年前就出现在硬币上。这类鱼类是受人类尊重的。一直以来人类都可持续地捕捞它们，除了我们这一代。蓝鳍金枪鱼无论到那里都被捕捞。地球曾经出现过淘金热，而这次是追求蓝鳍金枪鱼的热潮。捕捞原本一直是可持续的而今非昔比。而且， 现在的捕捞方式有大量资金和舆论支持，这等于是正在将蓝鳍金枪鱼从地球的生态版图上抹去。总的来说现在的蓝鳍金枪鱼都到了 日本。在座的各位中可能就有间接导致它们走向灭绝的刽子手。它们美味的肉富含脂肪的肉一定让人回味无穷吧但这就是问题了， 我们正将它们吃到灭亡！现在在大西洋， 故事很简单。蓝鳍金枪鱼群有两大分布， 一大一小西边 也就是北美那边大概每年捕捞2,000吨南边也就是欧洲，北非那边的蓝鳍金枪鱼正以惊人的速度被捕捞在过去10年里几乎每年50,000吨。
en:Now, bluefinwere revered by Manfor all of human history.For 4,000 years, we fished sustainably for this animal,and it&#39;s evidencedin the art that we seefrom thousands of years ago.Bluefin are in cave paintings in France.They&#39;re on coinsthat date back 3,000 years.This fish was revered by humankind.It was fished sustainablytill all of time,except for our generation.Bluefin are pursued wherever they go —there is a gold rush on Earth,and this is a gold rush for bluefin.There are traps that fish sustainablyup until recently.And yet, the type of fishing going on today,with pens, with enormous stakes,is really wiping bluefinecologically off the planet.Now bluefin, in general,goes to one place: Japan.Some of you may be guiltyof having contributed to the demise of bluefin.They&#39;re delectable muscle,rich in fat —absolutely taste delicious.And that&#39;s their problem; we&#39;re eating them to death.Now in the Atlantic, the story is pretty simple.Bluefin have two populations: one large, one small.The North American populationis fished at about 2,000 ton.The European population and North African — the Eastern bluefin tuna —is fished at tremendous levels:50,000 tons over the last decade almost every year.
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:结果就是无论你对西边 或东边 蓝鳍金枪鱼的数量都有如果以1950年的数量为基准来衡量的话，金枪鱼的数量都已经出现了90%左右的急剧的下滑。因此，蓝鳍金枪鱼被给予了与老虎，狮子某些非洲象和 熊猫相同的地位两个月前这些鱼被提议列入濒危物种的清单。但在两个星期前的投票中这一提议被否决。即使两个委员会的杰出研究显示这个鱼种符合濒危野生动植物种国际贸易公约附录1（CITES I） 的标准。就算如果你对金枪鱼感到无所谓，那你可能会对国际性捕捞企业追捕金枪鱼和附带捕捞的动物如棱皮龟，鲨鱼，枪鱼， 信天翁感兴趣。这些动物它们的终结同样发生在金枪鱼的捕捞地区。我们面对的挑战是我们对金枪鱼几乎一无所知，所有这间房里的人们都能认出非洲狮扑到猎物的场景。但我怀疑不是所有人都见过蓝鳍金枪鱼捕食。这种金枪鱼代表着一个普遍问题
en:The result is whether you&#39;re lookingat the West or the Eastern bluefin population,there&#39;s been tremendous decline on both sides,as much as 90 percentif you go back with your baselineto 1950.For that, bluefin have been given a statusequivalent to tigers, to lions,to certain African elephantsand to pandas.These fish have been proposedfor an endangered species listing in the past two months.They were voted on and rejectedjust two weeks ago,despite outstanding sciencethat shows from two committeesthis fish meets the criteria of CITES I.And if it&#39;s tunas you don&#39;t care about,perhaps you might be interestedthat international long lines and pursingchase down tunas and bycatch animalssuch as leatherbacks, sharks,marlin, albatross.These animals and their demiseoccurs in the tuna fisheries.The challenge we faceis that we know very little about tuna,and everyone in the room knows what it looks likewhen an African liontakes down its prey.I doubt anyone has seen a giant bluefin feed.This tuna symbolizeswhat&#39;s the problem for all of us in the room.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:现在是21世纪， 但我们对海洋的深入了解才刚刚开始。科技使我们来到这样一个时代：我们能在太空中远观地球，也能在深入观察远海。我们必须将这些技术运用起来使我们对海洋王国有一个更加深刻的了解我们中的大多数，包括我，面对海洋，看到的是广阔的单一的海水。我们不知道大海的结构，不能像在非洲平原上找到哪里有水潭。我们不知道海洋的经纬，我们不知道是什么将金枪鱼和信天翁联系在了一起我们才刚刚开始了解物理上的海洋学是如何与生物上的海洋学相结合从而创造出一个可能形成一个聚集点的上涌的季节性力量。挑战之所以巨大，是因为技术上说，海上作业是困难的。我们很难在蓝鳍金枪鱼的地盘—整个太平洋研究它。人真的很难接近灰鲭鲨给它上面贴标签更是困难。想象下 俄亥俄州立大学的布鲁斯麦特的团队吧，接近一个蓝鲸并在它上面固定标签 可以说是一个工程难题我们至今还没真正克服这项难题。
en:It&#39;s the 21st century, but we really have only just begunto really study our oceans in a deep way.Technology has come of agethat&#39;s allowing us to see the Earth from spaceand go deep into the seas remotely.And we&#39;ve got to use these technologies immediatelyto get a better understandingof how our ocean realm works.Most of us from the ship — even I —look out at the ocean and see this homogeneous sea.We don&#39;t know where the structure is.We can&#39;t tell where are the watering holeslike we can on an African plain.We can&#39;t see the corridors,and we can&#39;t see what it isthat brings together a tuna,a leatherback and an albatross.We&#39;re only just beginning to understandhow the physical oceanographyand the biological oceanographycome togetherto create a seasonal forcethat actually causes the upwellingthat might make a hot spot a hope spot.The reasons these challenges are greatis that technically it&#39;s difficult to go to sea.It&#39;s hard to study a bluefin on its turf,the entire Pacific realm.It&#39;s really tough to get up close and personal with a mako sharkand try to put a tag on it.And then imagine being Bruce Mate&#39;s team from OSU,getting up close to a blue whaleand fixing a tag on the blue whale that stays,an engineering challengewe&#39;ve yet to really overcome.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:而我们这个敬业的队伍的主要方向是鱼与芯片。（双关语：又指西方流行食品炸鱼薯条）我们基本上是用卫星电话的组件，或者是你电脑中的组件。我们将其以特殊的方式合并，这将以前所未有的方式将我们带如海洋世界。我们第一次能够观察金枪鱼在水下的行动并利用光来测量日落和日出。我已经与金枪鱼一起工作15年了。我有幸成为蒙特雷湾水族馆的合作成员。我们将海中非常小的一部分放在了玻璃后，我们也把蓝鳍金枪鱼与黄鳍金枪鱼进行展出。当每天早晨保护罩升起时我们可以看到水与远洋的交换，世上没有几个地方能让你看到巨大的蓝鳍从你眼前游过。我们可以从它们形态和作用的美中看到，它们无尽的活力。它们在海中自由穿梭我们每年可以使两百万人亲眼看到这些鱼并向他们展示它们的美
en:So the story of our team, a dedicated team,is fish and chips.We basically are takingthe same satellite phone parts,or the same parts that are in your computer, chips.We&#39;re putting them together in unusual ways,and this is taking us into the ocean realmlike never before.And for the first time,we&#39;re able to watch the journey of a tuna beneath the oceanusing light and photonsto measure sunrise and sunset.Now, I&#39;ve been working with tunas for over 15 years.I have the privilege of being a partnerwith the Monterey Bay Aquarium.We&#39;ve actually taken a sliver of the ocean,put it behind glass,and we togetherhave put bluefin tuna and yellowfin tuna on display.When the veil of bubbles lifts every morning,we can actually see a community from the Pelagic ocean,one of the only places on Earthyou can see giant bluefin swim by.We can see in their beauty of form and function,their ceaseless activity.They&#39;re flying through their space, ocean space.And we can bring two million people a yearinto contact with this fishand show them its beauty.
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:在这美景的后面是与蒙特雷湾水族馆合作的斯坦福大学的实验室。就在这里，十四五年以来我们将蓝鳍和黄鳍金枪鱼放在这里。我们研究这些鱼但是首先我们要学会饲养它们。它们想吃什么？它们喜欢什么？我们进入有金枪鱼的水箱。我们抚摸它们裸露的皮肤。这感觉非常好！然后，更好的是，我们找到了自己的鱼语者，我们的ChuckFarwell与 Alex Norton他们能够将一个大金枪鱼以一个方向放入几乎正好大小的水中，因此我们能真正的研究金枪鱼们并且学会不伤害那些不知海洋边界的鱼儿们的技术。Jeff 和 Jason两位科学家正将一个金枪鱼放入一个相当于跑步机的人工管道里那个金枪鱼可能认为它将游往日本， 但实际上它留在了原地。我们测量它对氧气的消耗和对能量的消耗我们将记录这些数据，做出更好的模型。当我看到金枪鱼时（这也是我最喜欢的景象）我突然想知道这些鱼是怎么在我们之前解决经度问题的？所以仔细看了下它这大概是能办到的最近的观察了。现在，实验室里的工作已经教会了我们如何走出去， 到大海中去继续研究。
en:Behind the scenes is a working lab at Stanford Universitypartnered with the Monterey Bay Aquarium.Here, for over 14 or 15 years,we&#39;ve actually brought inboth bluefin and yellowfin in captivity.We&#39;d been studying these fish,but first we had to learn how to husbandry them.What do they like to eat?What is it that they&#39;re happy with?We go in the tanks with the tuna — we touch their naked skin —it&#39;s pretty amazing. It feels wonderful.And then, better yet,we&#39;ve got our own version of tuna whisperers,our own Chuck Farwell, Alex Norton,who can take a big tunaand in one motion,put it into an envelope of water,so that we can actually work with the tunaand learn the techniques it takesto not injure this fishwho never sees a boundary in the open sea.Jeff and Jason there, are scientistswho are going to take a tunaand put it in the equivalent of a treadmill, a flume.And that tuna thinks it&#39;s going to Japan, but it&#39;s staying in place.We&#39;re actually measuring its oxygen consumption,its energy consumption.We&#39;re taking this data and building better models.And when I see that tuna — this is my favorite view —I begin to wonder:how did this fish solve the longitude problem before we did?So take a look at that animal.That&#39;s the closest you&#39;ll probably ever get.Now, the activities from the labhave taught us now how to go out in the open ocean.
时间： 7:50
zh-cn:所以在一个名为 “标个大家伙”我们真的从爱尔兰跑驶了加拿大，从科西嘉岛到了西班牙。我们与世界上许多国家合作致力于将电子计算机放到大金枪鱼内。我们已经标记了1,100头金枪鱼。而我现向你们展示三个短片，因为我标记了1,100只金枪鱼。这个过程像芭蕾舞一样， 难 但是很美。我们取出金枪鱼， 测量它一个由渔夫，船长，科学家和技术人员组成的团队为了能让它出海4到5分钟工作在了一起。我们让水流过它的腮，给它氧气。然后给它做标记再努力吧电脑放进去。并保证有一部分能留在外边， 使得电脑能感受外面的坏境。我们将鱼放回大海当它离开时， 我们总是很开心。我们能看到它的尾巴摇摆从我们收集到的数据来看当标签回来时因为 渔夫将其交还给我们能拿到1000美金的奖励，我们就能了解一个脊椎动物在水下最多5年的路线了。
en:So in a program called Tag-A-Giantwe&#39;ve actually gone from Ireland to Canada,from Corsica to Spain.We&#39;ve fished with many nations around the worldin an effort to basicallyput electronic computersinside giant tunas.We&#39;ve actually tagged 1,100 tunas.And I&#39;m going to show you three clips,because I tagged 1,100 tunas.It&#39;s a very hard process, but it&#39;s a ballet.We bring the tuna out, we measure it.A team of fishers, captains, scientists and technicianswork together to keep this animal out of the oceanfor about four to five minutes.We put water over its gills, give it oxygen.And then with a lot of effort, after tagging,putting in the computer,making sure the stalk is sticking out so it senses the environment,we send this fish back into the sea.And when it goes, we&#39;re always happy.We see a flick of the tail.And from our data that gets collected,when that tag comes back,because a fisher returns itfor a thousand-dollar reward,we can get tracks beneath the seafor up to five years now,on a backboned animal.
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:有时候，金枪鱼真的很大就像楠塔基特 附近的的这条但是这只是被我们标记过的最大的一半大小。需要一个人的力气一个团队的努力才能把它拉起来画面中，我们需要做的就是将一个能自动弹起的卫星标签放在一个金枪鱼上标签会固定在它上面感知周围的环境然后会离开这条鱼单独漂浮在水面并将计算出的位置的信息传回绕地卫星压力数据，温度数据所以从标签那得到信息都能在没有人参与的情况下完成。刚刚提到的提到的两个电子标签都比较昂贵。这些标签都是由许多北美团队制造的。里面有我们最精密的仪器和我们在海洋中的新科技。总的来说一个组织给以了我们比其他组织都多的帮助。那就是 北卡罗兰纳渔业组织。有两个村庄，Harris 和 Morehead。10年里的每年冬天都会举行一个名为 “标记个大家伙”的活动渔夫们那天会与我们合作标记800到900 头鱼这里 我们正要去测量这个鱼我们要做一些我们已经开始的事情取一个粘液样本看多么闪亮的皮肤， 你可你看到我的倒影。从那个粘液，我们能得到它的基因。我们能通过基因得到一些信息。再检查一次自动跳起标签然后就让它回到大海了。这是我的最爱
en:Now sometimes the tunas are really large,such as this fish off Nantucket.But that&#39;s about half the sizeof the biggest tuna we&#39;ve ever tagged.It takes a human effort,a team effort, to bring the fish in.In this case, what we&#39;re going to dois put a pop-up satellite archival tag on the tuna.This tag rides on the tuna,senses the environment around the tunaand actually will come off the fish,detach, float to the surfaceand send back to Earth-orbiting satellitesposition data estimated by math on the tag,pressure data and temperature data.And so what we get then from the pop-up satellite tagis we get away from having to have a human interactionto recapture the tag.Both the electronic tags I&#39;m talking about are expensive.These tags have been engineeredby a variety of teams in North America.They are some of our finest instruments,our new technology in the ocean today.One community in generalhas given more to help us than any other community.And that&#39;s the fisheries off the state of North Carolina.There are two villages, Harris and Morehead City,every winter for over a decade,held a party called Tag-A-Giant,and together, fishers worked with usto tag 800 to 900 fish.In this case, we&#39;re actually going to measure the fish.We&#39;re going to do something that in recent years we&#39;ve started:take a mucus sample.Watch how shiny the skin is; you can see my reflection there.And from that mucus, we can get gene profiles,we can get information on gender,checking the pop-up tag one more time,and then it&#39;s out in the ocean.And this is my favorite.
时间：10:45
zh-cn:在我前任博士后导师Gareth Lawson的帮助下这是一条金枪鱼的美丽照片这条在数字海洋中游动的金枪鱼较温暖的时 墨西哥湾流，较冷的是在美国缅因州海湾。这是金枪鱼的活动线路，它以成群的鲱鱼为食。但它不能到这里， 太冷了。但是当那温暖起来， 金枪鱼就窜进去，吃些鱼。也许会回到老家。又进去了那边又冷了，又回到北卡罗来纳州再后到了巴哈马然后就是我最喜欢的场景， 三条金枪鱼回到了墨西哥湾。三条标记过的金枪鱼。太空中， 我们计算它们位置。它们一起过来， 可能是为了繁殖下一代。而这个就是金枪鱼产卵的地方。因此， 通过这些数据我们能建立起地图在地图中你可以看到成千上万的位置由这十五年的标签标记得来的数据产生。现在， 让我们来看西边的它们前往东边所以 两个群落。一个是我们标记的海湾群落，它们前往墨西哥湾， 我们可以看到而第二个群落。欧洲的金枪鱼则游回地中海在热点两个群落重合。
en:With the help of my former postdoc, Gareth Lawson,this is a gorgeous picture of a single tuna.This tuna is actually moving on a numerical ocean.The warm is the Gulf Stream,the cold up there in the Gulf of Maine.That&#39;s where the tuna wants to go — it wants to forage on schools of herring —but it can&#39;t get there. It&#39;s too cold.But then it warms up, and the tuna pops in, gets some fish,maybe comes back to home base,goes in againand then comes back to winter down there in North Carolinaand then on to the Bahamas.And my favorite scene, three tunas going into the Gulf of Mexico.Three tunas tagged.Astronomically, we&#39;re calculating positions.They&#39;re coming together. That could be tuna sex —and there it is.That is where the tuna spawn.So from data like this,we&#39;re able now to put the map up,and in this mapyou see thousands of positionsgenerated by this decade and a half of tagging.And now we&#39;re showing that tunas on the western sidego to the eastern side.So two populations of tunas —that is, we have a Gulf population, one that we can tag —they go to the Gulf of Mexico, I showed you that —and a second population.Living amongst our tunas — our North American tunas —are European tunas that go back to the Med.On the hot spots — the hope spots —they&#39;re mixed populations.
时间：12:03
zh-cn:而我们要做的就是向国际委员会展示新模型，告诉他们 原来的 两群不相关模型是错误的， 不应该被用为反对CITES中条例通过的依据。这是一个交叉的模型这个才是符合事实的模型。因此我们可以预测哪里应该安排管理。像墨西哥湾和地中海那样的地方是单一物种的地方只有一种金枪鱼会被捕到这是明显应该被保护的地方在大西洋的中心，种群混合的地方可以出台允许加拿大和美国捕鱼的政策，因为他们能合理开展渔业。它们干的很好但是在过渡捕鱼盛行的国际海领域我们还需努力这样 才有可能能保护蓝鳍金枪鱼
en:And so what we&#39;ve done with the scienceis we&#39;re showing the International Commission,building new models,showing them that a two-stock no-mixing model —to this day, used to rejectthe CITES treaty —that model isn&#39;t the right model.This model, a model of overlap,is the way to move forward.So we can then predictwhere management places should be.Places like the Gulf of Mexico and the Mediterraneanare places where the single species,the single population, can be captured.These become forthright in places we need to protect.The center of the Atlantic where the mixing is,I could imagine a policy that lets Canada and America fish,because they manage their fisheries well,they&#39;re doing a good job.But in the international realm,where fishing and overfishing has really gone wild,these are the places that we have to make hope spots in.That&#39;s the size they have to be to protect the bluefin tuna.
时间：12:56
zh-cn:现在让我们来看第二个计划名为“标记太平洋”作为“海洋普查项目”的成员我们组成了一个团队并在如斯隆基金会等等的帮助下我们才得以进行我们的项目我们是17个这个领域中一个项目现准备开始标记大量的食肉鱼。不再单单是金枪鱼。我们已经在阿拉斯加州标记了一头鲑鲨在它的出生地标记了它，并跟随它们捕食鲑鱼当我们将一条鲑鱼放在鲨鱼的前面我们能够将鲨鱼网住这个鲨鱼是白鲨的表亲。我们很小心的注意我说的是 “很小心”我们能使它保持镇定。在它嘴里放个管子，并保持它不接触甲板并用卫星标签标记它现在，卫星就能对它定位了并能把信息传到卫星。这条鲨鱼在水中跳跃， 如果你看的仔细些，能看到它的触角。这是一个有着标签的自由游动的鲨鱼正追着鲑鱼。而天线正将数据传来。我们不是只标记这一种鲨鱼。但这只显示它精确到米的路线图较暖的颜色表示海洋的温度较高。它们向下到热带地区产仔再到蒙特雷。
en:Now in a second projectcalled Tagging of Pacific Pelagics,we took on the planet as a team,those of us in the Census of Marine Life.And, funded primarily through Sloan Foundation and others,we were able to actually go in, in our project —we&#39;re one of 17 field programsand begin to take on tagging large numbers of predators,not just tunas.So what we&#39;ve doneis actually gone up to tag salmon shark in Alaska,met salmon shark on their home territory,followed them catching salmonand then went in and figured outthat, if we take a salmon and put it on a line,we can actually take up a salmon shark —This is the cousin of the white shark —and very carefully —note, I say &quot;very carefully,&quot; —we can actually keep it calm,put a hose in its mouth, keep it off the deckand then tag it with a satellite tag.That satellite tag will now have your shark phone homeand send in a message.And that shark leaping there, if you look carefully, has an antenna.It&#39;s a free swimming shark with a satellite tagjumping after salmon,sending home its data.Salmon sharks aren&#39;t the only sharks we tag.But there goes salmon sharks with this meter-level resolutionon an ocean of temperature — warm colors are warmer.Salmon sharks go downto the tropics to pupand come into Monterey.
时间：14:19
zh-cn:现在 在蒙特雷附近， Farallones的上面有一只由Scott Anderson和Sal Jorgensen领导的研究白鲨的队伍。他们扔出一个诱饵一个形似海豹的毛毯不一会，一个好奇的白鲨就会游来不久他就会被抓到我们16英尺长的船上。这是个几千磅重的动物。我们会在诱饵里吹起我们会放置一个听觉标签会表示&quot;OMSHARK 10165,&quot;或者其它差不多的 以砰砰声的。然后我们会放置卫星标签标签会发给我们一个鲨鱼的长期路线。这路线是由标签中的电脑记录光的信息并以地理算法得出的所以，Sal的结果中能看到两种标签的记录。这是加利福尼亚的白鲨前往白鲨聚集地然后回来我们NOAA的同事标记灰鲭鲨和蓝鲸。现在我们能看到的颜色为海洋中的温度变化，我们能看到灰鲭鲨和鲑鲨以十天为以单位的移动图我们第一次观察到了白鲨和蓝鲨的信息，一个全海洋尺度的观察告诉了我们鲨鱼去哪
en:Now right next door in Monterey and up at the Farallonesare a white shark team led by Scott Anderson — there —and Sal Jorgensen.They can throw out a target —it&#39;s a carpet shaped like a seal —and in will come a white shark, a curious critterthat will come right up to our 16-ft. boat.It&#39;s a several thousand-pound animal.And we&#39;ll wind in the target.And we&#39;ll place an acoustic tagthat says, &quot;OMSHARK 10165,&quot;or something like that, acoustically with a ping.And then we&#39;ll put on a satellite tagthat will give us the long-distance journeyswith the light-based geolocation algorithmssolved on the computer that&#39;s on the fish.So in this case, Sal&#39;s looking at two tags there,and there they are: the white sharks of Californiagoing off to the white shark cafe and coming back.We also tag makos with our NOAA colleagues,blue sharks.And now, together, what we can seeon this ocean of color that&#39;s temperature,we can see ten-day worms of makos and salmon sharks.We have white sharks and blue sharks.For the first time,an ecoscape as large as ocean-scale,showing where the sharks go.
时间：15:29
zh-cn:金枪鱼方面的TOPP组织已经完成了由三个队伍标记了1，700头金枪鱼的难以想象的任务。蓝鳍，黄鳍，长鳍金枪鱼都在同时仔细地操练着标记项目我们选一些年轻的金枪鱼，将有感应器的标签放进再拿出并放金枪鱼走当它们往回走，你可以在NASA数字海洋中看到它们的路线你可以看到蓝鳍金枪鱼以蓝色表示穿过狭长地带回到大西洋。
en:The tuna team from TOPP has done the unthinkable:three teams tagged 1,700 tunas,bluefin, yellowfin and albacoreall at the same time —carefully rehearsed tagging programsin which we go out, pick up juvenile tunas,put in the tags that actually have the sensors,stick out the tunaand then let them go.They get returned, and when they get returned,here on a NASA numerical oceanyou can see bluefin in bluego across their corridor,returning to the Western Pacific.
时间：16:03
zh-cn:UCSC组织负责标记海象标签会粘在它们头上， 当它们蜕皮时随皮脱落。海象在海洋的一半以上地方都能看到，在水下1,800英尺的地方搜集数据惊人的数据这是Scott Shaffer和一个海鸥海鸥上带着光能标签它们将从新西兰飞往蒙特雷并飞回总共有35,000海里利用光能地理标签我们第一成功了解了它们飞行的全过程。与Laysan岛的信天翁一样将穿越整个大洋。有时它们的飞行路线会与金枪鱼重合你就知道为什么它们也可能被捕。现在看到的是 George Schillinger和来自Playa Grande的棱皮龟小组的队员。正在给正穿过它们所在区域的棱皮龟作标记。这是Scott Benson带队的小组的数据显示棱皮龟正从印度尼西亚前往蒙特雷我们能从这个移动的海洋中看到捕食者在哪里。我们能了解整个海洋中的整个生态圈。
en:Our team from UCSC has tagged elephant sealswith tags that are glued on their heads, that come off when they slough.These elephant seals cover half an ocean,take data down to 1,800 feet —amazing data.And then there&#39;s Scott Shaffer and our shearwaterswearing tuna tags, light-based tags,that now are going to take you from New Zealand to Monterey and back,journeys of 35,000 nautical mileswe had never seen before.But now with light-based geolocation tags that are very small,we can actually see these journeys.Same thing with Laysan albatrosswho travel an entire oceanon a trip sometimes,up to the same zone the tunas use.You can see why they might be caught.Then there&#39;s George Schillinger and our leatherback team out of Playa Grandetagging leatherbacksthat go right past where we are.And Scott Benson&#39;s teamthat showed that leatherbacks go from Indonesiaall the way to Monterey.So what we can see on this moving oceanis we can finally see where the predators are.We can actually see how they&#39;re using ecospacesas large as an ocean.
时间：17:11
zh-cn:从这些信息，我们能开始制作希望点的地图这里看到的只是3年里的数据而这样的数据有10年记录。我们能感受到这些动物的状态和季节性活动。我们能做的，就是利用这些数据提炼出 热点，4000个部署点一个艰巨的任务一个地方2000个标签这一切的综合 第一次告诉了我们在加利福尼亚海岸附近有一个聚集地然后， 就像它们给我们的加演一样它们带上设备帮助我们在2000米下的水中搜集数据在整个地球搜集在关键的地方如 南极，北极。许多国家的海狮被放生它们正在冰川的地下给我们传送两极的温度和海洋质量等数据。
en:And from this information,we can begin to map the hope spots.So this is just three years of data right here —and there&#39;s a decade of this data.We see the pulse and the seasonal activitiesthat these animals are going on.So what we&#39;re able to do with this informationis boil it down to hot spots,4,000 deployments,a huge herculean task,2,000 tagsin an area, shown here for the first time,off the California coast,that appears to be a gathering place.And then for sort of an encore from these animals,they&#39;re helping us.They&#39;re carrying instrumentsthat are actually taking data down to 2,000 meters.They&#39;re taking information from our planetat very critical places like Antarctica and the Poles.Those are seals from many countriesbeing releasedwho are sampling underneath the ice sheetsand giving us temperature data of oceanographic qualityon both poles.
时间：18:12
zh-cn:这个数据，当被可视化后，非常有吸引力。我们仍没能想出到底如何才能对这些数据进行最佳的可视化。而当这些动物游动并给我们信息时，这些信息对于气候问题是非常重要的，我们还认为将这些信息公布给大众来使大众也参与进来是很重要的。我们对于大海龟就是这么做的标记海龟， 这带来了4百万个点击。现在 在 谷歌海洋（Google‘Oeans）我们能将白鲨放在一个大洋中，他就会在里面游动我们可以知道鲨鱼在它们从加利福尼亚到夏威夷这段路中得到的一切信息。但是可能 Mission Blue组织能将我们看不到的地方也补上我们有这样的能力， NASA已经有了数字海洋。我们只需要将它们整合起来。
en:This data, when visualized, is captivating to watch.We still haven&#39;t figured out best how to visualize the data.And then, as these animals swimand give us the informationthat&#39;s important to climate issues,we also think it&#39;s criticalto get this information to the public,to engage the public with this kind of data.We did this with the Great Turtle Race —tagged turtles, brought in four million hits.And now with Google&#39;s Oceans,we can actually put a white shark in that ocean.And when we do and it swims,we see this magnificent bathymetrythat the shark knows is there on its pathas it goes from California to Hawaii.But maybe Mission Bluecan fill in that ocean that we can&#39;t see.We&#39;ve got the capacity, NASA has the ocean.We just need to put it together.
时间：18:59
zh-cn:所以， 总的来说我们知道黄石公园在北美的哪：在海岸边我们有技术了解它在哪我们需要思考的是如何增加Misson Blue记录生态信息的能力。我们怎样才能在别的地方也做这些工作呢？最终能达到在家就能得到信息，可以利用例如来自蓝鲸白鲨的链接如果你愿意的话，制作杀戮软件，大部分的人当看到鲨鱼在金门大桥下时会非常激动。就用大家的iPhone 将大家连接到这项活动吧。这是一些网上的这类图片。
en:So in conclusion,we know where Yellowstone is for North America;it&#39;s off our coast.We have the technology that&#39;s shown us where it is.What we need to think about perhaps for Mission Blueis increasing the biologging capacity.How is it that we can actuallytake this type of activity elsewhere?And then finally — to basically get the message home —maybe use live linksfrom animals such as blue whales and white sharks.Make killer apps, if you will.A lot of people are excitedwhen sharks actually went under the Golden Gate Bridge.Let&#39;s connect the public to this activity right on their iPhone.That way we do away with a few internet myths.
时间：19:40
zh-cn:所以， 我们能够救蓝鳍金枪鱼我们能够救白鲨我们有科技。是的， 我们能。我们只需要将我们的技术应用到更广阔的海洋。
en:So we can save the bluefin tuna.We can save the white shark.We have the science and technology.Hope is here. Yes we can.We need just to apply this capacityfurther in the oceans.
时间：19:52
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间：19:54
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
