时间： 0:12
zh-cn:十年前，一个电话改变了我的一生。那时，我是加州大学洛杉矶分校（UCLA）的心脏病学家，专攻心脏成像技术。电话来自洛杉矶动物园的兽医。一只高龄雌性黑猩猩睡醒后面部下垂，兽医担心她得了中风。他们问我能不能来动物园给黑猩猩的心脏成像，寻找可能的心脏病因。
en:Ten years ago,I got a phone call thatchanged my life.At the time, I was cardiologist at UCLA,specializing in cardiac imaging techniques.The call came from a veterinarianat the Los Angeles Zoo.An elderly female chimpanzeehad woken up with a facial droopand the veterinarians were worriedthat she&#39;d had a stroke.They asked if I&#39;d come to the zooand image the animal&#39;s heartto look for a possiblecardiac cause.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:要明确的是，北美的动物园都有高水平的经过认证的兽医，他们极为出色地照料着他们的动物患者。但偶尔，他们会求助人类医疗社区，尤其是涉及专科问诊时，而我就是被邀请帮忙的幸运者之一。我曾经有机会为这个黑猩猩排除中风可能，为这个大猩猩排除主动脉撕裂的可能，给这个金刚鹦鹉听心脏杂音，确认这只加州海狮的心包没有发炎，还有，在这张照片中，我在给一头狮子做心脏听音，这是在兽医和医生的一起关乎性命的合作行动之后，我们从包裹这只狮子心脏的囊袋中引流出700cc的液体。还有这个操作，我在很多人类病患上进行过，步骤是一样的，区别只是这里的爪子和尾巴。
en:Now, to be clear, North Americanzoos are staffedby highly qualified, board-certified veterinarianswho take outstanding care of their animal patients.But occasionally, they do reach into the human medical community,particularly for some speciality consultation,and I was one of the lucky physicianswho was invited in to help.I had a chance to rule outa stroke in this chimpanzeeand make sure that this gorilla didn&#39;t have a torn aorta,evaluate this macawfor a heart murmur,make sure that this California sea lion&#39;sparicardium wasn&#39;t inflamed,and in this picture, I&#39;m listeningto the heart of a lionafter a lifesaving, collaborative procedurewith veterinarians and physicianswhere we drained 700 cc&#39;s of fluid from the sacin which this lion&#39;s heart was contained.And this procedure, which I havedone on many human patients,was identical, with the exceptionof that paw and that tail.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:大多数时候，我都是在UCLA医学中心与医生们工作，探讨症状，诊断，和治疗方案，对象是我的人类患者们，但偶尔，我也在洛杉矶动物园和兽医们合作，探讨症状，诊断，和治疗方案，对象是他们的动物病患。少数情况下，在同一天里，我又要在UCLA医学中心工作，还要去洛杉矶动物园工作。我开始逐渐清醒地认识到这一点。医生和兽医其实是在处理人类病患和动物病患中的同样问题：充血性心力衰竭，脑瘤，白血病，糖尿病，关节炎，“渐冻人症”医学名为肌萎缩侧索硬化症(ALS)，乳腺癌，甚至还包括精神疾病，例如抑郁症，焦虑症，强迫症，进食障碍，自虐等。
en:Now most of the time, I was workingat UCLA Medical Center with physicians,discussing symptomsand diagnoses and treatmentsfor my human patients,but some of the time,I was working at the Los Angeles Zoowith veterinarians, discussing symptoms and diagnoses and treatmentsfor their animal patients.And occasionally, on the very same day,I went on rounds at UCLA Medical Centerand at the Los Angeles Zoo.And here&#39;s what started cominginto very clear focus for me.Physicians and veterinarianswere essentially taking careof the same disorders in their animal and human patients:congestive heart failure, brain tumors,leukemia, diabetes, arthritis, ALS, breast cancer,even psychiatric syndromeslike depression, anxiety,compulsions, eating disordersand self-injury.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:在这里，我要坦白。尽管我学过比较生理学和进化生物学，那是我读大学的时候 —我的毕业论文甚至都是关于达尔文理论的 —动物疾病和人类疾病存在明显重叠的这一认知，为我及时敲响了警钟。我开始想，有这么多重叠，我为什么从来没有想过请教兽医，或者是参考兽医学文献，来为我的人类病患提供见解？为什么我从未，而我问过的医生同事们也从未，参加过兽医学会议？就这点而言，有什么可让人奇怪的？你看，每一名医生都同意动物和人类间存在某种生物学上的联系。我们开过的每一种药，以及我们自己服过的药，以及我们给我们家人的药，都是先在动物身上进行试验的。
en:Now, I&#39;ve got a confession to make.Even though I studied comparativephysiology and evolutionary biologyas an undergrad —I had even written my senior thesis on Darwinian theory —learning about the significant overlapbetween the disorders of animals and humans,it came as a much needed wake-up call for me.So I started wondering,with all of these overlaps,how was it that I had neverthought to ask a veterinarian,or consult the veterinary literature,for insights into one of my human patients?Why had I never, nor had any of my physician friends and colleagueswhom I asked, ever attended a veterinary conference?For that matter, why was any of this a surprise?I mean, look, every single physicianaccepts some biological connectionbetween animals and humans.Every medication that we prescribeor that we&#39;ve taken ourselvesor we&#39;ve given to our familieshas first been tested on an animal.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:但的确动物被动人为病变，与动物自身病变之间存在有很大的差异给动物用一种药物，或使其患上一种人类疾病 是一回事，而动物们患自己特有的充血性心力衰竭，糖尿病，乳腺癌病是另一回事。对此感到奇怪的部分原因，可能是我们社会中城镇与非城镇之间逐渐扩大的隔阂。我们常听说城里长大的孩子以为羊毛长在树上，或者奶酪来自植物。是的，今天人类的医院，正在变为某种闪耀金光的科学殿堂。这就使得在医院里治疗的人类病患和生活在海洋，农场，和丛林中的动物病患之间在认知上出现了距离。
en:But there&#39;s something very differentabout giving an animal a medication or a human diseaseand the animal developing congestive heart failureor diabetes or breast cancer on their own.Now, maybe some of the surprisecomes from the increasingseparation in our worldbetween the urban and the nonurban.You know, we hear about these city kidswho think that wool grows on treesor that cheese comes from a plant.Well, today&#39;s human hospitals,increasingly, are turning into thesegleaming cathedrals of technology.And this creates a psychologicaldistance between the human patientswho are being treated thereand animal patients whoare living in oceansand farms and jungles.
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:但我觉得还有更深的原因。对于医生和科学家而言，我们理智上承认我们这个物种，智人(人类)，仅仅是物种之一，并不比其他物种更独特。但在情感上，我们不完全这么想。当我听莫扎特，或是当我在MacBook上看火星探测车传回的照片时，我就能感觉到一股人类特殊论，尽管我明白把人类看做与众不同的高等物种，在科学上会有多么大的代价。如今，我正在努力。如今，当我看到人类病患时，我总是自问，对这一情况，兽医会不会掌握我不了解的知识。以及，如果我把他们(病人)视为“人类动物”病患，我是不是能更好地医治他们？
en:But I think there&#39;s an even deeper reason.Physicians and scientists, we acceptintellectually that our species,Homo sapiens, is merely one species,no more unique orspecial than any other.But in our hearts, we don&#39;t completely believe that.I feel it myself when I&#39;m listening to Mozartor looking at pictures of the Mars Rover on my MacBook.I feel that tug of human exceptionalism,even as I recognize the scientifically isolating costof seeing ourselves as asuperior species, apart.Well, I&#39;m trying these days.When I see a human patientnow, I always ask,what do the animal doctors knowabout this problem that I don&#39;t know?And, might I be taking better care of my human patientif I saw them as a humananimal patient?
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:以下几个例子，是这类思考给我带来的奇妙的认识。恐惧引起的心力衰竭。在2000年左右，人类心脏病专家“发现”了情绪诱导的心力衰竭。该情况出现于一位好赌的父亲因为掷骰子赌博失去了一生的积蓄之后，以及一位新娘被遗弃在教堂门口之后。但后来发现，这一“新”的人类疾病既不新，也不是人类的特权。兽医们诊断，治疗，甚至预防动物中情绪引发的症状，对象包括猴子，火烈鸟，鹿，兔子在内，从20世纪70年代就已经开始了。会有多少人的生命获得拯救，如果这一兽医知识能传授给急救室大夫和心脏病学家？
en:Here are a few examples of the kind of exciting connectionsthat this kind of thinking has led me to.Fear-induced heart failure.Around the year 2000,human cardiologists &quot;discovered&quot;emotionally induced heart failure.It was described in a gambling father who had lost his life&#39;s savingswith a roll of the dice,in a bride who&#39;dbeen left at the alter.But it turns out, this &quot;new&quot; human diagnosiswas neither new, norwas it uniquely human.Veterinarians had been diagnosing, treating and even preventingemotionally inducedsymptoms in animalsranging from monkeys to flamingos,from to deer to rabbits,since the 1970s.How many human lives might have been savedif this veterinary knowledgehad been put into the handsof E.R. docs and cardiologists?
时间： 8:34
zh-cn:还有自虐。一些人类病人会伤害自己。有的拔下一把把的毛发，有的甚至会割伤自己。一些动物患者也会自我伤害。有的鸟会拔掉自己的羽毛，有的马会不停地咬自己的侧腹，直到流血。但兽医有很具体和有效的方法来治疗甚至预防自我伤害，针对的是自我伤害的动物们。这些兽医的知识难道不应该传授给心理医生，家长，和受自我伤害困扰的患者们？
en:Self-injury.Some human patients harm themselves.Some pluck out patches of hair,others actually cut themselves.Some animal patients also harm themselves.There are birds that pluck out feathers.There are stallions that repetitivelybite their flanks until they bleed.But veterinarians have very specificand very effective waysof treating and evenpreventing self-injuryin their self-injuring animals.Shouldn&#39;t this veterinary knowledgebe put into the handsof psychotherapists and parents and patientsstruggling with self-injury?
时间： 9:28
zh-cn:还有产后抑郁症和产后精神病。有时候，在生产后不久，一些女性会变得抑郁，有时甚至严重抑郁，甚至患精神病。她们会忽视自己的婴儿，在某些极端的病例中，甚至会伤害孩子。马科兽医也知道偶尔地，母马在生产之后，会忽视马驹，拒绝抚养，而在某些情况下，甚至会去踢马驹，致其死亡。但是兽医们发明了一种干预疗法来处理这种拒绝抚养马驹的症状，那就是提高母马的催产素水平。催产素是一种促进结合的荷尔蒙，这能使母马对马驹重新产生兴趣。难道这一信息不应传授给产科和妇科医生，传授给正受产后抑郁症和精神病困扰的患者们和家庭医生？
en:Postpartum depression and postpartum psychosis.Sometimes, soon after giving birth,some women become depressed,and sometimes they become seriously depressed and even psychotic.They may neglect their newborn,and in some extreme cases,even harm the child.Equine veterinarians alsoknow that occasionally,a mare, soon after giving birth,will neglect the foal,refusing to nurse,and in some instances,kick the foal, even to death.But veterinarians have devisedan intervention to deal withthis foal rejection syndromethat involves increasing oxytocin in the mare.Oxytocin is the bonding hormone,and this leads to renewed interest,on the part of the mare, in her foal.Shouldn&#39;t this informationbe put into the hands of ob/gyn&#39;sand family doctors and patientswho are struggling with postpartumdepression and psychosis?
时间：10:46
zh-cn:可是，即便有这么多好处，我们两个学科之间的鸿沟依旧不幸存在。要解释这个现象，我可能要揭示一些黑暗面。一些医生真的是瞧不起没有医学博士文凭的医生。我是指牙医，眼科验光师，和心理学家，但特别也指动物医生。当然，绝大多医生不知道如今上兽医学校比上医学院还难。我们读医学院的话，我们要学习所有能学的知识，只针对一种生物，智人，但兽医需要学习的卫生和疾病，对象是哺乳动物，两栖动物，鱼类，和鸟类。所以我不责怪兽医厌恶我这一职业的高傲和无知。这有一句兽医的话：只可以治疗一种物种的兽医是什么？医生。（笑声）
en:Well, despite all of this promise,unfortunately the gulf betweenour fields remains large.To explain it, I&#39;m afraid I&#39;m going to have to air some dirty laundry.Some physicians can be real snobsabout doctors who are not M.D.&#39;s.I&#39;m talking about dentists and optometrists and psychologists,but maybe especially animal doctors.Of course, most physiciansdon&#39;t realize that it is harderto get into vet school thesedays than medical school,and that when we go to medical school,we learn everything there is to knowabout one species, Homo sapiens,but veterinarians need to learnabout health and diseasein mammals, amphibians,reptiles, fish and birds.So I don&#39;t blame the vetsfor feeling annoyedby my profession&#39;scondescension and ignorance.But here&#39;s one from the vets:What do you call a veterinarianwho can only take care of one species?A physician. (Laughter)
时间：12:10
zh-cn:缩小鸿沟是我的愿望，我正在通过例如UCLA的Darwin on Rounds(达尔文医疗查房)项目来做到这点。该项目中，我们将动物专家和进化生物学家安排到我们的医疗团队中，连同我们的实习生和住院医生一起工作。还有，通过跨物种共病(Zoobiquity)会议，我们让医学院和兽医学校一起参加合作性讨论，讨论动物病患和人类病患共通的疾病和失调。在跨物种共病(Zoobiquity)会议上，参会者们了解了为老虎治疗乳腺癌能如何帮助我们更好地治疗幼儿园教师的乳腺癌；了解了明白荷斯坦牛的多囊卵巢综合征能如何让我们更好的照顾痛经的舞蹈老师；以及了解了治疗敏感不安的喜乐蒂牧羊犬的分离焦虑能如何让我们更好地帮助第一天上学感到焦虑的儿童。
en:Closing the gap has become a passion for me,and I&#39;m doing this through programslike Darwin on Rounds at UCLA,where we&#39;re bringing animal experts and evolutionary biologistsand embedding themon our medical teamswith our interns and our residents.And through Zoobiquity conferences,where we bring medical schools together with veterinary schoolsfor collabortive discussionsof the shared diseases and disordersof animal and human patients.At Zoobiquity conferences,participants learn how treatingbreast cancer in a tigercan help us better treat breast cancerin a kindergarten teacher;how understanding polycysticoveries in a Holstein cowcan help us better take careof a dance instructor with painful periods;and how better understanding the treatment of separation anxietyin a high-strung Sheltiecan help an anxious young childstruggling with his first days of school.
时间：13:33
zh-cn:在美国以及现在在全世界，在跨物种共病(Zoobiquity)会议上医生和兽医将彼此之间的态度和成见抛在门外，团结成为同事，同行，医疗工作者。毕竟，我们人类也是动物，是时候让我们医生坦承我们患者和我们自己的动物本性，加入兽医们一起用跨物种的视角来看待医疗。
en:In the United States and now internationally, at Zoobiquity conferencesphysicians and veterinarians check their attitudes and their preconceptionsat the door and come together as colleagues,as peers, as doctors.After all, we humans are animals, too,and it&#39;s time for us physicians to embraceour patients&#39; and our own animal naturesand join veterinariansin a species-spanning approach to health.
时间：14:18
zh-cn:因为事实是，一些最好的最人性化的医药是被医生用于不是人类的患者身上。而我们照料人类病患的最好方式之一就是要仔细关注地球上所有其他病患如何生活，生长，生病，以及痊愈。
en:Because it turns out,some of the best and most humanistic medicineis being practiced by doctorswhose patients aren&#39;t human.And one of the best ways we can take careof the human patient is by paying close attentionto how all the other patients on the planetlive, grow, get sick and heal.
时间：14:50
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:52
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause).
