时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在他的就职演讲当中，奥巴马呼吁我们每个人都极尽所能以摆脱当前的金融危机。但他呼吁什么？很庆幸，他没有像前总统布什，就仅仅叫我们去购物而已，也没有告诉我们“相信我们，相信美国，投资，投资，再投资”相反的，他告诉我们把幼稚的事情放在一边,呼吁美德.美德是一个过时的词。这样的词在像这样的前沿环境里似乎并不合适，而且，有些人可能会想：到底什么是美德？”
en:In his inaugural address,Barack Obama appealed to each of us to give our bestas we try to extricate ourselves from this current financial crisis.But what did he appeal to?He did not, happily, follow in the footsteps of his predecessor,and tell us to just go shopping.Nor did he tell us, &quot;Trust us. Trust your country.Invest, invest, invest.&quot;Instead, what he told us was to put aside childish things.And he appealed to virtue.Virtue is an old-fashioned word.It seems a little out of place in a cutting-edge environment like this one.And besides, some of you might be wondering,what the hell does it mean?
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:让我从一个例子开始。这是一所医院里的一个清洁工的工作说明，在屏幕上滚动着。这上面所写的东西都很平常。这都是一些你能预料得到的事情：扫地，清理垃圾，倒垃圾筒，进货机柜，等。这些事的数量可能有点令人惊讶，但是这些事的内容却很平常。但是在这里面，有个现象，我想让你们注意：尽管这个清单很长，但是里面没有一条是涉及到其他人的。一个都没有。该清洁工的工作也同样可以在一个医院的停尸间里进行。
en:Let me begin with an example.This is the job description of a hospital janitorthat is scrolling up on the screen.And all of the items on it are unremarkable.They&#39;re the things you would expect:mop the floors, sweep them, empty the trash, restock the cabinets.It may be a little surprising how many things there are,but it&#39;s not surprising what they are.But the one thing I want you to notice about them is this:even though this is a very long list,there isn&#39;t a single thing on it that involves other human beings.Not one.The janitor&#39;s job could just as well be done in a mortuary as in a hospital.
时间： 1:51
zh-cn:然而，当一些心理学家去采访一些这样的清洁工，以了解这些人是怎么看待他们自己的工作的，他们遇见了迈克迈克告诉他们他之所以没有继续拖地因为琼斯先生起床做简单的运动，试着恢复他的元气，慢慢的在楼里上下走动。而查丽告诉他们说，她之所以没有听从上司的警告，没有用真空吸尘器打扫访客的休息室，因为有一些家庭成员天天在那里。现在，有人正在里面休息呢。接下来他们采访了鲁克，鲁克对一个昏迷病人的房间的地板洗刷了两次，因为这个病人的父亲，他在这里守夜六个月，鲁克第一次打扫的时候，他并没有看见，所以这个病人的父亲生气了。像这样的行为，不管是来自清洁工，技术人员，护士，有的时候我们幸运一点，还会是医生，不仅仅让人们感觉好点，这些行为实际上改善了病人护理的质量并且让医院良好的运作。
en:And yet, when some psychologists interviewed hospital janitorsto get a sense of what they thought their jobs were like,they encountered Mike,who told them about how he stopped mopping the floorbecause Mr. Jones was out of his bed getting a little exercise,trying to build up his strength, walking slowly up and down the hall.And Charlene told them about how she ignored her supervisor&#39;s admonitionand didn&#39;t vacuum the visitor&#39;s loungebecause there were some family members who were there all day, every daywho, at this moment, happened to be taking a nap.And then there was Luke,who washed the floor in a comatose young man&#39;s room twicebecause the man&#39;s father, who had been keeping a vigil for six months,didn&#39;t see Luke do it the first time,and his father was angry.And behavior like this from janitors, from technicians, from nursesand, if we&#39;re lucky now and then, from doctors,doesn&#39;t just make people feel a little better,it actually improves the quality of patient careand enables hospitals to run well.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:当然，现在的社会，不是每一个清洁工都这样。但是，这样做的人都认为这些人与人的交流，涉及到善良，关怀和体谅，正好是这项工作最核心的部分。然而，在工作说明里面没有包含一个与其他人相关的词汇。这些清洁工有道德的意愿去正确的对待他人。除此之外，他们还具有道德的技能去判断到底什么是正确的做法。
en:Now, not all janitors are like this, of course.But the ones who are think that these sorts of human interactionsinvolving kindness, care and empathyare an essential part of the job.And yet their job description contains not one word about other human beings.These janitors have the moral will to do right by other people.And beyond this, they have the moral skill to figure out what &quot;doing right&quot; means.
时间： 3:33
zh-cn:亚里士多德告诉我们，“实践的智慧”“就是道德的意愿和道德的技能的结合”。一个明智的人知道什么时候以及如何去对每一条规定做特殊的处理，就像这些清洁工知道在为他人服务的时候什么时候可以不用在意工作本身的职能要求。一个明智的人知道如何随机应变，像鲁克就知道再去洗刷一次地板。现实世界的问题常常很暧昧和模糊，而且问题的内容还常常变换。一个明智的人就像爵士乐手一样，看着歌谱演奏的时候并不会完全遵从，会即兴创作来与当时的情形和周围的人相适宜。一个明智的人知道如何使用道德技能为一个正确的目的而工作。为他人服务，而不是应付他人。最后，也许也是最重要的，一个明智的人不是天生的，而是后天形成的。智慧依赖于经验，但不是依赖于所有的经验。你需要时间去了解你正在服务的人。你需要得到许可去做一些临时的决定，尝试新的事物，常常会失败，那就从失败中学习。你也需要一个明智的导师来指导你。
en:&quot;Practical wisdom,&quot; Aristotle told us,&quot;is the combination of moral will and moral skill.&quot;A wise person knows when and how to make the exception to every rule,as the janitors knew when to ignore the job duties in the service of other objectives.A wise person knows how to improvise,as Luke did when he re-washed the floor.Real-world problems are often ambiguous and ill-definedand the context is always changing.A wise person is like a jazz musician —using the notes on the page, but dancing around them,inventing combinations that are appropriate for the situation and the people at hand.A wise person knows how to use these moral skillsin the service of the right aims.To serve other people, not to manipulate other people.And finally, perhaps most important,a wise person is made, not born.Wisdom depends on experience,and not just any experience.You need the time to get to know the people that you&#39;re serving.You need permission to be allowed to improvise,try new things, occasionally to fail and to learn from your failures.And you need to be mentored by wise teachers.
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:当你问那些刚才我所提到的清洁工，学会做他们那样的工作有多难，他们会告诉你需要很多经验才行。他们的意思不是说学习擦地板倒垃圾需要花很多时间累积经验，而是说要学会关心护理人需要很多经验。在TED，才华无限制的蔓延着。有点可怕。好消息是，要想成为明智的人你不必聪明绝顶。坏消息是如果没有智慧，仅仅有才华是不够的。这就好像其他很多让你和他人烦心的事一样。掌声
en:When you ask the janitors who behaved like the ones I describedhow hard it is to learn to do their job,they tell you that it takes lots of experience.And they don&#39;t mean it takes lots of experience to learn how to mop floors and empty trash cans.It takes lots of experience to learn how to care for people.At TED, brilliance is rampant.It&#39;s scary.The good news is you don&#39;t need to be brilliant to be wise.The bad news is that without wisdom,brilliance isn&#39;t enough.It&#39;s as likely to get you and other people into trouble as anything else.(Applause)
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:现在呢，我希望我们都清楚这一点。这是很显然的，不然，我再给你们讲一个小故事。这是一个关于柠檬水的故事。一个父亲和他七岁的儿子在棒球场看底特律虎队的比赛。儿子给他说想喝点柠檬水这个父亲就去商店买。但是店里只有Mike‘s Hard柠檬水，里面有5%的酒精含量。这个父亲完全不知道里面（理论上来说）含了酒精。所以他就买了回来。这孩子就开始喝了，警卫发现了这一点，就叫了警察，警察又叫了救护车冲到棒球场，迅速的把孩子带到了医院。急诊室后来确定这孩子的血液里没有含酒精。然后才可以让这孩子离开。
en:Now, I hope that we all know this.There&#39;s a sense in which it&#39;s obvious,and yet, let me tell you a little story.It&#39;s a story about lemonade.A dad and his seven-year-old son were watching a Detroit Tigers game at the ballpark.His son asked him for some lemonadeand Dad went to the concession stand to buy it.All they had was Mike&#39;s Hard Lemonade,which was five percent alcohol.Dad, being an academic, had no idea that Mike&#39;s Hard Lemonade contained alcohol.So he brought it back.And the kid was drinking it, and a security guard spotted it,and called the police, who called an ambulancethat rushed to the ballpark, whisked the kid to the hospital.The emergency room ascertained that the kid had no alcohol in his blood.And they were ready to let the kid go.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:但是不会很快哦。韦恩县儿童福利保障局不允许孩子马上被带走。这孩子被送到了一个抚养孤儿的家庭，待了三天。都这样了，这孩子能回家了吗？当然，法官说可以，但是条件是他的父亲离开住处到旅馆住。两周以后，我很高兴向大家报告，这个家庭终于团聚了。但是福利机构，救护人员，还有法官都说了同样的话：“我们也讨厌这么做，但是我们得按规章办事”
en:But not so fast.The Wayne County Child Welfare Protection Agency said no.And the child was sent to a foster home for three days.At that point, can the child go home?Well, a judge said yes, but only if the dad leaves the house and checks into a motel.After two weeks, I&#39;m happy to report,the family was reunited.But the welfare workers and the ambulance peopleand the judge all said the same thing:&quot;We hate to do it but we have to follow procedure.&quot;
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:这样的事怎么可能发生呢？司高特 赛门，在NPR里讲了这个故事。他说：“规章制度可能悄无声息，但是他们会让你不去思考。“公平点说，规则常常都是强制性的因为以前的官员比较松懈他们让一个孩子回到了一个充满漫骂和伤害的家庭。理由够充分了。当事情确实做错了，我们会用两类工具去弥补。
en:How do things like this happen?Scott Simon, who told this story on NPR,said, &quot;Rules and procedures may be dumb,but they spare you from thinking.&quot;And, to be fair, rules are often imposedbecause previous officials have been laxand they let a child go back to an abusive household.Fair enough.When things go wrong, as of course they do,we reach for two tools to try to fix them.
时间： 7:51
zh-cn:一类工具就是规则条例。更多，更好的规则。我们会寻求的第二类工具就是激励制度。更多，更好的激励制度。究竟还有什么其他的东西呢？我可以轻易的在对现在的经济危机的响应中发现。管制，管制再管制。改善激励制度，改善激励制度，还是改善激励制度...真相是：不管是规章条例还是激励制度都不足以完成这样的工作。你要如何去写一条规定让刚才提到的那些清洁工去做他们之前做的那些事呢？你会因为他们的同情心而给他们发奖金吗？这看起来太荒谬了。当我们更多的求助于条例制度的时候会发生什么事，规章条例和激励制度会在短期内让事情变好，但是这些制度和条例建立了向下的漩涡，会让事情在长期内变得更糟。道德的技能已经被对规则的国度信赖粉碎了，这剥夺了我们的机会去随机应变以及从临场反应中学习。道德意愿也被埋没了因为不断的寻求激励制度破坏了我们本身对于做正确的事情的欲望。不用去预想，寻求规则和激励制度，我们将会经历一场智慧的战争。
en:One tool we reach for is rules.Better ones, more of them.The second tool we reach for is incentives.Better ones, more of them.What else, after all, is there?We can certainly see this in response to the current financial crisis.Regulate, regulate, regulate.Fix the incentives, fix the incentives, fix the incentives ...The truth is that neither rules nor incentivesare enough to do the job.How could you even write a rule that got the janitors to do what they did?And would you pay them a bonus for being empathic?It&#39;s preposterous on its face.And what happens is that as we turn increasingly to rules,rules and incentives may make things better in the short run,but they create a downward spiralthat makes them worse in the long run.Moral skill is chipped away by an over-reliance on rulesthat deprives us of the opportunityto improvise and learn from our improvisations.And moral will is underminedby an incessant appeal to incentivesthat destroy our desire to do the right thing.And without intending it,by appealing to rules and incentives,we are engaging in a war on wisdom.
时间： 9:14
zh-cn:让我来举几个例子，先是规则和道德技能的冲突。柠檬水的故事就是一个。第二个，你们会更熟悉，美国现在教育的现状：照本宣科，因循守旧的课程。这是一个芝加哥幼儿园的例子。阅读并欣赏文章和以B开头的单词。浴室：把学生们聚集在一个小垫子上，警告学生们热水的危险性。在教案里说出75件物品来教一本25页的图画书。整个芝加哥的幼儿园，每个老师在同一天以同样的方式说着同样的话。我们清楚为什么会有这样的教案。我们无法充分的信任老师们的判断力让他们去自由发挥。像这样的教案就像是应对灾难的保险单一样。他们能预防灾难。但是他们身处教师的位置，能肯定的是，他们造就了平庸。掌声。
en:Let me just give you a few examples,first of rules and the war on moral skill.The lemonade story is one.Second, no doubt more familiar to you,is the nature of modern American education:scripted, lock-step curricula.Here&#39;s an example from Chicago kindergarten.Reading and enjoying literatureand words that begin with &#39;B.&#39;&quot;The Bath:&quot; Assemble students on a rugand give students a warning about the dangers of hot water.Say 75 items in this script to teach a 25-page picture book.All over Chicago in every kindergarten class in the city,every teacher is saying the same words in the same way on the same day.We know why these scripts are there.We don&#39;t trust the judgment of teachers enoughto let them loose on their own.Scripts like these are insurance policies against disaster.And they prevent disaster.But what they assure in its place is mediocrity.(Applause)
时间：10:26
zh-cn:不要误解我的意思。我们是需要规则的！爵士乐手也需要一些谱子，他们中大部分人还需要看着谱子演奏。我们需要更多的条款来约束银行家，上帝也知道。但是太多的规则会让熟练的爵士乐手无法即兴创作。最终，他们会丢失他们的天赋，或者更坏，他们完全不再演出。
en:Don&#39;t get me wrong. We need rules!Jazz musicians need some notes —most of them need some notes on the page.We need more rules for the bankers, God knows.But too many rules prevent accomplished jazz musiciansfrom improvising.And as a result, they lose their gifts,or worse, they stop playing altogether.
时间：10:46
zh-cn:那激励制度呢？他们看起来更聪明些。如果你有一个理由做某件事，我会给你第二个理由做同样的事情仅仅从逻辑上来讲，两个理由似乎要比一个理由好你就更有可能去做。对吧？其实，不一定。有的时候，做同一件事的两个理由可能会相矛盾，而不是相辅相成他们就会使人不那么愿意去做。
en:Now, how about incentives?They seem cleverer.If you have one reason for doing somethingand I give you a second reason for doing the same thing,it seems only logical that two reasons are better than oneand you&#39;re more likely to do it.Right?Well, not always.Sometimes two reasons to do the same thing seem to compete with one anotherinstead of complimenting,and they make people less likely to do it.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:因为时间有限，我就只举一个例子。大概在15年以前的瑞士，人们试图决定要在哪里处置核废料。那时举行了全国性的公民投票。一些心理学家就四处游走，向一些知识丰富的公民拉票。他们就问：“你愿意在你的社区里放置核废料吗？”吃惊的是，50%的公民说愿意。他们知道危险性。他们也知道这将降低他们房产的价值。但是这些废料总要放到某个地方而且作为公民也有义务。心理学家们稍微改了一下问题，又问了其他的人。他们问：“如果我们每年付你六周的薪水，你愿意在你的社区里安置核废料吗？”两个原因。这是我的义务而且我还拿钱。不像之前的50%说愿意，现在只有25%的人愿意这么做。第二个结果就是引进激励条件所造成的。那么，不去问：“什么是我的职责义务？”我们问的是，“什么适合于我们的兴趣？”当激励机制不奏效的时候，当首席执行官不顾公司的长期健康发展而去追寻可以得到大量红利的短期利益的时候，回应始终是一样的。建立更加巧妙的激励机制。
en:I&#39;ll just give you one example because time is racing.In Switzerland, back about 15 years ago,they were trying to decide where to site nuclear waste dumps.There was going to be a national referendum.Some psychologists went around and polled citizens who were very well informed.And they said, &quot;Would you be willing to have a nuclear waste dump in your community?&quot;Astonishingly, 50 percent of the citizens said yes.They knew it was dangerous.They thought it would reduce their property values.But it had to go somewhereand they had responsibilities as citizens.The psychologists asked other people a slightly different question.They said, &quot;If we paid you six weeks&#39; salary every yearwould you be willing to have a nuclear waste dump in your community?&quot;Two reasons. It&#39;s my responsibility and I&#39;m getting paid.Instead of 50 percent saying yes,25 percent said yes.What happens is thatthe second this introduction of incentive gets usso that instead of asking, &quot;What is my responsibility?&quot;all we ask is, &quot;What serves my interests?&quot;When incentives don&#39;t work,when CEOs ignore the long-term health of their companiesin pursuit of short-term gains that will lead to massive bonuses,the response is always the same.Get smarter incentives.
时间：12:39
zh-cn:真相确是：你是不可能想出足够巧妙的激励机制的。任何激励机制都可以被恶意的意愿推翻的。我们是需要激励机制的。人们总是要生活的。但是对于激励机制过分的依赖会让专业的活跃性受挫可以从两个方面来看。他会让已经在这个活动里面的人丢失士气也会让活动本身丧失民心。
en:The truth is that there are no incentives that you can devisethat are ever going to be smart enough.Any incentive system can be subverted by bad will.We need incentives. People have to make a living.But excessive reliance on incentivesdemoralizes professional activityin two senses of that word.It causes people who engage in that activity to lose moraleand it causes the activity itself to lose morality.
时间：13:09
zh-cn:在就职之前，巴拉克 奥巴马说，“我们一定不要仅仅问‘这个有利润吗？’还要问‘这是对的吗？’”当职业士气受挫时，从事这个职业的人都会变得依赖甚至沉溺于激励机制而且他们也不会问“这是正确的吗？”我们能在制药行业看到这些。“尽管不是那么严重，我们最好注意一下确保这不会变成严重的诉讼。”我当然也能在商业世界里看到这些。“为了在当今的市场保持竞争力，我们恐怕要用不靠谱的人来取代你的位置了。”“为了这些破事将来要达到的目标的十分之一，我现在就出卖了我的灵魂。”很显然这并不是人们所期望的工作方式。
en:Barack Obama said, before he was inaugurated,&quot;We must ask not just &#39;Is it profitable?&#39; but &#39;Is it right?&#39;&quot;And when professions are demoralized,everyone in them becomes dependent on — addicted to — incentivesand they stop asking &quot;Is it right?&quot;We see this in medicine.(&quot;Although it&#39;s nothing serious, let&#39;s keep an eye on it to make sure it doesn&#39;t turn into a major lawsuit.&quot;)And we certainly see it in the world of business.(&quot;In order to remain competitive in today&#39;s marketplace, I&#39;m afraid we&#39;re going to have to replace you with a sleezeball.&quot;)(&quot;I sold my soul for about a tenth of what the damn things are going for now.&quot;)It is obvious that this is not the way people want to do their work.
时间：13:52
zh-cn:那我们可以做什么呢？下面是一些希望的来源：我们应该尝试重新赋予工作道德的含义。一个方法就是：不要教授过多的道德规范课程。掌声。要向人们展示你并不那么严肃，最好的方法就是把你要说的那些关于道德规范的事包装到一个带有蝴蝶结的小包裹里，然后把他当成一节道德课交出来。
en:So what can we do?A few sources of hope:we ought to try to re-moralize work.One way not to do it: teach more ethics courses.(Applause)There is no better way to show people that you&#39;re not seriousthan to tie up everything you have to say about ethicsinto a little package with a bow and consign it to the margins as an ethics course.
时间：14:21
zh-cn:除此之外还可以做什么呢？方法一：表扬道德榜样。当你走进法学院的时候，会有一个很小的声音就会在你耳边耳语讲阿提卡斯 芬奇这个正义律师的故事。不会有10岁的小孩去法学院做并购的。人们会被道德英雄们激励。但是我们知道，当诡辩强词夺理的时候，你就会为不承认你有敬仰的道德英雄而找到借口。还是承认他们吧。因为你有他们而自豪吧。赞美他们。也需要那些教你承认并赞美道德英雄的人。这是我们可以做的一件事。
en:What to do instead?One: Celebrate moral exemplars.Acknowledge, when you go to law school,that a little voice is whispering in your earabout Atticus Finch.No 10-year-old goes to law school to do mergers and acquisitions.People are inspired by moral heroes.But we learn that with sophisticationcomes the understanding that you can&#39;t acknowledge that you have moral heroes.Well, acknowledge them.Be proud that you have them.Celebrate them.And demand that the people who teach you acknowledge them and celebrate them too.That&#39;s one thing we can do.
时间：15:01
zh-cn:我不知道你们有多少人记得这件事：十五年前，另一个道德英雄，艾伦 福尔斯丁，他是马萨诸塞州梅尔登 米尔斯的老板这公司是生产Plolartec（北极棉之类的材料）的。工厂烧毁了，有3000个工人，他还是让每一个人都领到了工钱。为什么？因为如果让他们离开，对于他们来说，或者对于社区来说，这将是很不幸的灾难。“可能名义上，我们并没有华尔街的公司值钱。”但是我可以告诉你们，它比想象的更有价值，我们做的很好！“
en:I don&#39;t know how many of you remember this:another moral hero, 15 years ago, Aaron Feuerstein,who was the head of Malden Mills in Massachusetts —they made Polartec —The factory burned down.3,000 employees. He kept every one of them on the payroll.Why? Because it would have been a disaster for themand for the community if he had let them go.&quot;Maybe on paper our company is worth less to Wall Street,but I can tell you it&#39;s worth more. We&#39;re doing fine.&quot;
时间：15:32
zh-cn:就在TED，我们就听到了好几个道德英雄的演讲。有两个特别激励我。一个是雷 安德森，他-掌声。你们也知道，他把邪恶帝国的一部分变成了一个零排放，或者说零排放的生意。为什么呢？因为这是正确的事。他发现的一个额外的奖励是：他实际上将会赚更多的钱。他的员工被他的作为所激励。为什么？因为他们很乐意去做那些正确的事。昨天，我们听了威力 斯密特 关于重建印尼森林的演讲。掌声。
en:Just at this TED we heard talks from several moral heroes.Two were particularly inspiring to me.One was Ray Anderson, who turned —(Applause)— turned, you know, a part of the evil empireinto a zero-footprint, or almost zero-footprint business.Why? Because it was the right thing to do.And a bonus he&#39;s discovering ishe&#39;s actually going to make even more money.His employees are inspired by the effort.Why? Because there happy to be doing something that&#39;s the right thing to do.Yesterday we heard Willie Smits talk about re-foresting in Indonesia.(Applause)
时间：16:16
zh-cn:从很多方面来讲，这是一个完美的例子。因为，它利用了意愿来做正确的事。上帝也知道这会用到很多很多的专业技术。我非常吃惊，他和他的组织到底需要知道多少事情才能把事情规划出来。但是，最重要的是让它运作起来，而且他强调这是用来让很多团体的人们了解的那一部分。除非和你一起工作的人们在身后支持你，这将会失败。没有一个公式，告诉你如何让人们支持你。因为在不同的团体不同的人会用各种不同的方式来进行生活
en:In many ways this is the perfect example.Because it took the will to do the right thing.God knows it took a huge amount of technical skill.I&#39;m boggled at how much he and his associates needed to knowin order to plot this out.But most important to make it work —and he emphasized this —is that it took knowing the people in the communities.Unless the people you&#39;re working with are behind you,this will fail.And there isn&#39;t a formula to tell you how to get the people behind you,because different people in different communitiesorganize their lives in different ways.
时间：16:55
zh-cn:在TED和其他很多地方都有很多事值得称赞。你也不必非要去当个超级英雄。有很多平凡的英雄。像之前提到的清洁工人就是值得赞扬的平凡英雄。作为从业者，我们每一个人都应该努力如果成不了非凡的英雄也要成为一个平凡的英雄。作为公司的老板，我们应该努力的创造环境来鼓励和培养道德技能和道德意愿。即使最聪明善意的人也会放弃，如果要他们去逆流而行和他们工作的的单位抗争的话。
en:So there&#39;s a lot here at TED, and at other places, to celebrate.And you don&#39;t have to be a mega-hero.There are ordinary heroes.Ordinary heroes like the janitors who are worth celebrating too.As practitioners each and every one of us should striveto be ordinary, if not extraordinary heroes.As heads of organizations,we should strive to create environmentsthat encourage and nurture both moral skill and moral will.Even the wisest and most well-meaning peoplewill give up if they have to swim against the currentin the organizations in which they work.
时间：17:30
zh-cn:如果你要开公司，你要确保没有一个工作—没有一个工作的工作说明会像之前的清洁工工作说明一样。因为，真相是你做的任何一个与人打交道的工作都是道德的工作。任何一个道德的工作都会依赖于实践的智慧。
en:If you run an organization, you should be surethat none of the jobs — none of the jobs —have job descriptions like the job descriptions of the janitors.Because the truth is thatany work that you do that involves interaction with other peopleis moral work.And any moral work depends upon practical wisdom.
时间：17:52
zh-cn:然后，可能最重要的是，作为老师，我们应该努力成为平凡的英雄，成我们做教导的人的道德模范。作为老师有一些东西我们应该记住。一是我们一直都在教导。而有人会一直在观察。镜头永远是开着的。比尔盖茨谈过教育的重要性，还特别提供了KIPP规范。“知识就是力量。”他也谈到了很多美好的事情KIPP正在让市中心的孩子走向大学的道路。
en:And, perhaps most important,as teachers, we should strive to be the ordinary heroes,the moral exemplars, to the people we mentor.And there are a few things that we have to remember as teachers.One is that we are always teaching.Someone is always watching.The camera is always on.Bill Gates talked about the importance of educationand, in particular, the model that KIPP was providing:&quot;Knowledge is power.&quot;And he talked about a lot of the wonderful thingsthat KIPP is doingto take inner-city kids and turn them in the direction of college.
时间：18:32
zh-cn:我想把重点放在KIPP正在做的一件事情上比尔盖茨没有提过。他们发现这样一个事实就是孩子需要学的的最重要的一件事就是人格。他们需要学习尊重自己。他们需要学习尊重他们的同学。他们需要学习尊重他们的老师。最重要的是，他们需要学习尊重学习。这是一个理论性的目标。如果你这么做了，剩下的就像是向下的滑坡一下好走。老师们：你们教导孩子的方法应该把每天每一分钟所有的东西都融合在一起。
en:I want to focus on one particular thing KIPP is doingthat Bill didn&#39;t mention.That is that they have come to the realizationthat the single most important thing kids need to learnis character.They need to learn to respect themselves.They need to learn to respect their schoolmates.They need to learn to respect their teachers.And, most important, they need to learn to respect learning.That&#39;s the principle objective.If you do that, the rest is just pretty much a coast downhill.And the teachers: the way you teach these things to the kidsis by having the teachers and all the other staff embody it every minute of every day.
时间：19:12
zh-cn:奥巴马呼吁美德。我认为他是对的。而且我认为我们最需要的美德就是实践的智慧。因为他让其他的美德-诚实，善良，勇气等等—在正确的时间以正确的方式展现出来。他还呼吁期望。也是对的。我认为呼吁期望是有原因的。我想人都希望能够善良/有道德。
en:Obama appealed to virtue.And I think he was right.And the virtue I think we need above all others is practical wisdom,because it&#39;s what allows other virtues — honesty, kindness, courage and so on —to be displayed at the right time and in the right way.He also appealed to hope.Right again.I think there is reason for hope.I think people want to be allowed to be virtuous.
时间：19:41
zh-cn:从很大程度上来说，这就是TED的意义所在。期望能做正确的事情，以正确的方式，因为正当的理由。这种智慧是我们每一个都都力所能及的，只要我们开始注意。注意我们所做的事情，我们如何去做，以及，可能是最重要的，去构建我们所工作的组织，以此来保证它可以让我们和其他人开发智慧而不是压制我们的智慧。
en:In many ways, it&#39;s what TED is all about.Wanting to do the right thingin the right wayfor the right reasons.This kind of wisdom is within the grasp of each and every one of usif only we start paying attention.Paying attention to what we do,to how we do it,and, perhaps most importantly,to the structure of the organizations within which we work,so as to make sure that it enables us and other people to develop wisdomrather than having it suppressed.
时间：20:16
zh-cn:谢谢大家。谢谢掌声。
en:Thank you very much.Thank you.(Applause)
时间：20:24
zh-cn:克里斯 安德森：你可能要到那边站着等一下。
en:Chris Anderson: You have to go and stand out here a sec.
时间：20:30
zh-cn:巴瑞 斯瓦兹：非常感谢大家！掌声。
en:Barry Schwartz: Thank you very much.(Applause)
