时间： 0:11
zh-cn:首先，我想要感谢大家第二，我要介绍我的合著者我亲密的朋友和合作老师，肯尼斯和我在一起工作已经有将近40年了。肯尼斯·夏普就坐在那里。
en:The first thing I want to do is say thank you to all of you.The second thing I want to do is introduce my co-authorand dear friend and co-teacher.Ken and I have been working togetherfor almost 40 years.That&#39;s Ken Sharpe over there.
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 0:27
zh-cn:很多人——包括我，和大部份与我交谈过的人——有一种共同的不满:对社会上事情运作的方式,对于社会上机构运转的方式不满。我们孩子的老师好象是辜负他们；我们的医生不知道我们究竟是谁，也没有足够的时间给我们。我们当然也不能信任银行家，更不能相信股票经纪人，他们几乎弄垮了整个金融体系。甚至当我们只是做自己的工作时，我们也常常会会发现自己不得不选择，是做我们认为是正确的事，还是做被期望做的事，或是做被要求做的事，还是做有利益的事。所以环顾周围，基本上的情况都是，我们担心我们所依靠的人并不真的在乎我们的利益；或者即使他们在心里面在乎，我们担心他们不够了解我们来弄清他们该怎么做才能让我们确保我们的利益和意愿。他们不理解我们。他们也没有时间来认识我们。
en:So there is among many people —certainly me and most of the people I talk to —a kind of collective dissatisfactionwith the way things are working,with the way our institutions run.Our kids&#39; teachers seem to be failing them.Our doctors don&#39;t know who the hell we are,and they don&#39;t have enough time for us.We certainly can&#39;t trust the bankers,and we certainly can&#39;t trust the brokers.They almost brought the entire financial system down.And even as we do our own work,all too often,we find ourselves having to choosebetween doing what we think is the right thingand doing the expected thing,or the required thing,or the profitable thing.So everywhere we look,pretty much across the board,we worry that the people we depend ondon&#39;t really have our interests at heart.Or if they do have our interests at heart,we worry that they don&#39;t know us well enoughto figure out what they need to doin order to allow usto secure those interests.They don&#39;t understand us.They don&#39;t have the time to get to know us.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:对这种普遍的不满足感，我们一般会有两种反应。如果事情出错了，第一种回应是：让我们制定更多的规则，让我们设定一系列更详细的步骤和程序来确保人们做正确的事。比如给老师能在课堂上遵守的教学守则，那么即使他们不知道他们在做什么，也不在乎我们孩子的福利和成长，只要他们遵守这些守则，孩子们就能得到教育。比如给法官一张必须执行的判罪清单让他用来治罪所以你不再需要依赖法官们自己的判断。相反，他们所需做的一切只是对照这个清单，看什么罪行应该给什么判决。比如规定信用卡公司能收取利息的范围，和什么方面能收取费用。有越来越多的条例来保护我们来对付那些冷漠的没有人情味的但是我们不得不面对的机构。
en:There are two kinds of responsesthat we maketo this sort of general dissatisfaction.If things aren&#39;t going right,the first response is:let&#39;s make more rules,let&#39;s set up a setof detailed proceduresto make sure that people will do the right thing.Give teachers scriptsto follow in the classroom,so even if they don&#39;t know what they&#39;re doingand don&#39;t care about the welfare of our kids,as long as they follow the scripts,our kids will get educated.Give judges a list of mandatory sentencesto impose for crimes,so that you don&#39;t need to relyon judges using their judgment.Instead, all they have to dois look up on the listwhat kind of sentence goes with what kind of crime.Impose limitson what credit card companies can charge in interestand on what they can charge in fees.More and more rulesto protect usagainst an indifferent, uncaringset of institutions we have to deal with.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:或者，或许应该说是并且，除了制定更多的规章条例之外，看看我们还能不能想出一些聪明的激励机制。那样即使如果我们面对的人并不特别想满足我们的意愿，但是为了他们自己的利益他们也会来为我们服务—也就是说，神奇的激励措施能让人们纯粹出于私心也能做正确的事。所以我们给老师提供奖金，如果他们所教的学生能通过那些用来衡量学校质量的大型考试。
en:Or — or maybe and —in addition to rules,let&#39;s see if we can come upwith some really clever incentivesso that, even if the people we deal withdon&#39;t particularly want to serve our interests,it is in their interestto serve our interest —the magic incentivesthat will get people to do the right thingeven out of pure selfishness.So we offer teachers bonusesif the kids they teachscore passing grades on these big test scoresthat are used to evaluatethe quality of school systems.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:规则和奖励 —大棒和萝卜。在这次金融危机之后，我们已经又通过了一大把规则来规范金融行业。有多德-弗郞克（Dodd-Frank） 法案（美国华尔街改革和个人消费者保护法案），成立了新的暂时实际上由伊丽莎白·罗伦（Elizabeth Warren）主管的消费者金融保护局。也许这些条例真能改善那些金融服务公司的行为方式。我们还需拭目以待。另一方面， 我们努力寻找创建激励机制的方法使得金融服务业界的人能够更重视为长远的利益服务，哪怕仅仅是为他们自己的公司的长远利益，而不只是为了取得近期眼前的利润。那样如果我们能找到合适的奖励机制，他们也会“自私地”，如我所讲，做正确的事情。所以如果我们能制定正确的规章条例，他们就不会把我们都拉下悬崖。然而肯尼斯和我当然知道我们应该支配银行家的行为！如果从这次金融危机中我们应该学到什么，就是这个教训。
en:Rules and incentives —&quot;sticks&quot; and &quot;carrots.&quot;We passed a bunch of rulesto regulate the financial industryin response to the recent collapse.There&#39;s the Dodd-Frank Act,there&#39;s the new Consumer Financial Protection Agencythat is temporarily being headed through the backdoorby Elizabeth Warren.Maybe these ruleswill actually improvethe way these financial services companies behave.We&#39;ll see.In addition, we are strugglingto find some way to create incentivesfor people in the financial services industrythat will have them more interestedin serving the long-term interestseven of their own companies,rather than securing short-term profits.So if we find just the right incentives,they&#39;ll do the right thing — as I said — selfishly,and if we come up with the right rules and regulations,they won&#39;t drive us all over a cliff.And Ken [Sharpe] and I certainly knowthat you need to reign in the bankers.If there is a lesson to be learned from the financial collapseit is that.
时间： 4:34
zh-cn:但是我们相信，也是我们这本书的观点，那就是：没有任何规定，无论多详细，无论多具体，无论监管和执行实施多么有力，没有任何条例能让我们得到我们起初所希望的。为什么？因为银行家很聪明，像水一样，他们能从任何规定和条例中找到漏洞和可乘之机。你设订一系列法案来确保那个使整个金融系统几乎崩溃的特定原因不再发生；但如果你认为只要把这个导致金融危机的源头堵住了，就堵住了所有可能导致金融系统崩溃的源头，那未免太天真了。所以这只是等待下一次危机，然后惊异于我们怎么这么愚蠢，竟然没有防备到这一招，没有保护到自己。
en:But what we believe,and what we argue in the book,is that there is no set of rules,no matter how detailed,no matter how specific,no matter how carefully monitoredand enforced,there is no set of rulesthat will get us what we need.Why? Because bankers are smart people.And, like water,they will find cracksin any set of rules.You design a set of rules that will make surethat the particular reasonwhy the financial system &quot;almost-collapse&quot;can&#39;t happen again.It is naive beyond descriptionto think that having blockedthis source of financial collapse,you have blocked all possible sources of financial collapse.So it&#39;s just a question of waiting for the next oneand then marveling at how we could have been so stupidas not to protect ourselves against that.
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:我们真正急需的，不光是更完善的制度，和聪明合理的激励，而是我们需要美德，我们需要人格，我们需要想要做正确的事的人。特别地，我们最需要的美德是亚里斯多德所称的实用智慧。实用智慧-是做正确的事的道德意志；是知道什么是正确的道德技巧。所以亚里斯多德对于观察他周围的工匠如何工作很感兴趣。他对于他们如何即兴针对他们也没意料的新问题想出新奇的解决方案印象深刻。举一个例子：他看到一些石匠在莱斯博斯岛做工，他们需要测量那里的圆柱。如果你想想的话，用直尺量圆柱真的很难。所以他们怎么办呢？他们发明了一种新奇的手段。他们制作了一种可以弯曲的尺，也就是现在我们说的卷尺——一把灵活的尺可弯曲的尺。亚里斯多德就说：哈，他们也知道有时候要设计圆的柱子，你需要通融（放松规定）。亚里斯多德又说，对待别人我们也需要时常通融处理。
en:What we desperately need,beyond, or along with, better rulesand reasonably smart incentives,is we need virtue.We need character.We need people who want to do the right thing.And in particular,the virtue that we need most of allis the virtue that Aristotle called&quot;practical wisdom.&quot;Practical wisdomis the moral willto do the right thingand the moral skillto figure out what the right thing is.So Aristotle was very interested in watchinghow the craftsmen around him worked.And he was impressedat how they would improvisenovel solutions to novel problems —problems that they hadn&#39;t anticipated.So one example is he sees these stonemasonsworking on the Isle of Lesbos,and they need to measure outround columns.Well if you think about it,it&#39;s really hard to measure out round columns using a ruler.So what do they do?They fashion a novel solution to the problem.They created a ruler that bends,what we would call these days a tape measure —a flexible rule,a rule that bends.And Aristotle said,&quot;Hah, they appreciated that sometimesto design rounded columns,you need to bend the rule.&quot;And Aristotle saidoften in dealing with other people,we need to bend the rules.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:与人相处其实需要一定的灵活性，那是没有任何规章条例可以代替的。聪明的人知道什么时候，怎么样去酌情处理，不完全遵守死规定。有智慧的人知道如何针对具体情况恰当地处理。我的合著者肯尼斯和我说起这个，他们就像爵士音乐家；规章制度就像纸上的音符，你先按照音符所定的曲调开始，但是然后你便在音符之间即兴发挥，与当时那些一起表演的人一起跳出那些最符合当时那个时刻的最美妙的最佳配合。所以对于亚里斯多德，这种酌情处理，你从熟练工匠中能看到的即兴发挥和不死板执行规定，正是你要成为一个道德层面的熟练工匠所需要的。并且在对待他人的几乎任何时候，这种一定程度的灵活性是必须的。聪明人知道什么时候不死板地按照规矩办事。有智慧的人知道何时应该即兴发挥。最重要的是，智慧的人做这种即兴发挥和酌情处理是为着正义的目的。如果你不按章办事，灵活处理的目的只是为了自己的利益，你就只是对他人无情的控制和摆布。所以重要的是你做这种灵活处理的行为是为他人服务，而不是为自己。所以想要做正义事情的愿望与即兴发挥和特殊情况特殊处理的道德技巧一样重要。这些品质拼在一起就是实用智慧——亚里斯多德认为的所有美德之核心。
en:Dealing with other peopledemands a kind of flexibilitythat no set of rules can encompass.Wise people know when and howto bend the rules.Wise people know how to improvise.The way my co-author , Ken, and I talk about it,they are kind of like jazz musicians.The rules are like the notes on the page,and that gets you started,but then you dance around the notes on the page,coming up with just the right combinationfor this particular momentwith this particular set of fellow players.So for Aristotle,the kindof rule-bending,rule exception-finding and improvisationthat you see in skilled craftsmenis exactly what you needto be a skilled moral craftsman.And in interactions with people,almost all the time,it is this kind of flexibility that is required.A wise person knows when to bend the rules.A wise person knows when to improvise.And most important,a wise person does this improvising and rule-bendingin the service of the right aims.If you are a rule-bender and an improvisermostly to serve yourself,what you get is ruthless manipulation of other people.So it matters that you do this wise practicein the service of othersand not in the service of yourself.And so the will to do the right thingis just as important as the moral skillof improvisationand exception-finding.Together they comprise practical wisdom,which Aristotle thoughtwas the master virtue.
时间： 8:51
zh-cn:让我来举一个这种智慧实践的例子。这是迈克的故事。迈克是一个年轻人。他有一份很低薪的工作，得养活妻子和一个孩子，孩子将要上教区学校。然而他丢了工作，他极度惊慌担忧能不能继续养家糊口。一天晚上，他喝的有点多，抢劫了一个出租司机，偷了50美金。他是用枪来抢劫的，用的是把玩具枪。他被抓住了，被控告，被定罪了。宾夕法尼亚的判决条例要求对于这类罪行的处罚最低为两年，24个月。这个案子的法官，法官罗易斯·佛热（Lois Forer）认为条例在这个案子上没有道理。迈克以前没有过任何犯罪记录，他是一个负责任的丈夫和父亲，他面对的是绝望的处境。条例所规定的判决只会毁了这个家，于是她酌情处理出一个判决——11个月。不仅那样，还每天把迈克释放出去让他去工作。晚上坐监，白天工作。迈克这么做了。他服完了他的判决。他做出了赔偿，找到了新工作，家庭复原了。
en:So I&#39;ll give you an exampleof wise practice in action.It&#39;s the case of Michael.Michael&#39;s a young guy.He had a pretty low-wage job.He was supporting his wife and a child,and the child was going to parochial school.Then he lost his job.He panickedabout being able to support his family.One night, he drank a little too much,and he robbed a cab driver —stole 50 dollars.He robbed him at gunpoint.It was a toy gun.He got caught. He got tried.He got convicted.The Pennsylvania sentencing guidelinesrequired a minimum sentence for a crime like thisof two years, 24 months.The judge on the case, Judge Lois Forerthought that this made no sense.He had never committed a crime before.He was a responsible husband and father.He had been faced with desperate circumstances.All this would do is wreck a family.And so she improvised a sentence — 11 months,and not only that,but release every day to go to work.Spend your night in jail, spend your day holding down a job.He did. He served out his sentence.He made restitutionand found himself a new job.And the family was united.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:一切似乎在通往一种得体生活的正轨上——一个有智慧的法官作了酌情处理之后的故事的完美结局。但是结果呢，检察官不高兴，说佛热法官没有按照判决条例办事，而是随便发明了她自己的判决，所以他再上诉反对。他要求按照持枪抢劫罪名的最低处罚来定罪。毕竟，迈克的确用了一把玩具枪。持枪抢劫的最低处罚是 5 年。检察官赢了上诉。迈克被判坐监5年。佛热法官必须按法律办事。另外说一句， 上诉通过时，是在迈克已经结束服刑之后，所以他已经在外开始工作，照料他的家庭，但他现在得重返监狱。佛热法官做了法律要求她做的，接着她辞职了。迈克呢，消失了。所以这就是一个既有智慧的实践，也有智慧被那些本来是应该让事情更好的规定所颠覆推翻的例子。
en:And it seemed on the roadto some sort of a decent life —a happy ending to a storyinvolving wise improvisationfrom a wise judge.But it turned outthe prosecutor was not happythat Judge Forer ignored the sentencing guidelinesand sort of invented her own,and so he appealed.And he asked for the mandatory minimum sentencefor armed robbery.He did after all have a toy gun.The mandatory minimum sentence for armed robberyis five years.He won the appeal.Michael was sentenced to five years in prison.Judge Forer had to follow the law.And by the way, this appeal went throughafter he had finished serving his sentence,so he was out and working at a joband taking care of his familyand he had to go back into jail.Judge Forer did what she was required to do,and then she quit the bench.And Michael disappeared.So that is an example,both of wisdom in practiceand the subversion of wisdomby rules that are meant, of course, to make things better.
时间：11:38
zh-cn:现在来讲杜伊（Dewey）女士的故事。杜伊女士是德州小学的一名教师。一天她在听一个咨询顾问给老师提建议来提高学生成绩，那样学校就可以因为通过大型考试的学生的比例成为精英学校。所以这些在德州的学校相互竞争来达到这些通过指标，并且如果你打败了其他学校你就能得到各种各样的奖励和优惠。所以咨询顾问的建议是：第一：不要在那些不管你做什么，都能够通过考试的学生身上浪费时间；第二，不要在不管你做什么都通过不了考试的学生身上浪费时间；第三，不要在那些太迟进入这个学区，成绩不会记入评比系统的学生身上浪费时间。集中所有你们的时间和注意力在那些边界线上的孩子身上，简称边界孩子——那些通过你们的介入和努力也许能从不及格到通过考试的孩子。那么杜伊女士听到了这个，她绝望地摇头，然而她的同事老师们却互相欢呼，赞许地点头，就好像他们正要去一场橄榄球比赛一样。但是杜伊女士觉得，这不是她成为老师的目的啊。
en:Now consider Ms. Dewey.Ms. Dewey&#39;s a teacher in a Texas elementary school.She found herself listening to a consultant one daywho was trying to help teachersboost the test scores of the kids,so that the schoolwould reach the elite categoryin percentage of kids passing big tests.All these schools in Texas compete with one anotherto achieve these milestones,and there are bonuses and various other treatsthat come if you beat the other schools.So here was the consultant&#39;s advice:first, don&#39;t waste your time on kidswho are going to pass the test no matter what you do.Second, don&#39;t waste your timeon kids who can&#39;t pass the testno matter what you do.Third, don&#39;t waste your timeon kids who moved into the districttoo late for their scores to be counted.Focus all of your time and attentionon the kids who are on the bubble,the so-called &quot;bubble kids&quot; —kids where your interventioncan get them just maybe over the linefrom failing to passing.So Ms. Dewey heard this,and she shook her head in despairwhile fellow teachers were sort of cheering each other onand nodding approvingly.It&#39;s like they were about to go play a football game.For Ms. Dewey,this isn&#39;t why she became a teacher.
时间：13:03
zh-cn:应该说，肯尼斯和我并不天真，我们理解这个社会需要规章条例，也需要刺激和奖励。人们需要谋生。但是依赖规矩和激励的问题在于它们使人们对工作觉得很没意思。它们让人觉得职业活动很没意思有两方面。第一，他们使人们工作起来觉得没劲。佛热法官辞职了，杜伊女士彻底沮丧。第二，他们使活动本身没有意思。活动本身没劲，参加的人沮丧。当你想通过不同的奖励来刺激人们做对的事时,人们逐渐对这些奖励上瘾。也就是说，它产生的是只为奖励做事的人。
en:Now Ken and I are not naive,and we understand that you need to have rules.You need to have incentives.People have to make a living.But the problemwith relying on rules and incentivesis that they demoralizeprofessional activity,and they demoralize professional activityin two senses.First, they demoralize the peoplewho are engaged in the activity.Judge Forer quits,and Ms. Dewey in completely disheartened.And second,they demoralize the activity itself.The very practice is demoralized,and the practitioners are demoralized.It creates people —when you manipulate incentives to get people to do the right thing —it creates peoplewho are addicted to incentives.That is to say, it creates peoplewho only do things for incentives.
时间：13:55
zh-cn:引人注目的是，心理学家知道这一点已经有30年。心理学家已经知道把所有事情都用奖励来驱动的负面结果有30年了。我们知道如果你奖励孩子画画，他们停止关心画画本身，而只在乎奖励；如果你奖励孩子读书，他们停止关心书的内容而只关心书有多厚；如果你为孩子的成绩奖励老师，他们不再关心教育本身，而只是关心备考。如果你去奖励医生走更多的检查程序，现在的系统正是这样， 那他们就会去走更多的程序。如果你奖励他们走少些步骤，他们就会少走步骤。而我们需要的是医生提供恰如其分的检查步骤，为了正当的理由做适量的工作，换句话说， 为病人的福利服务。心理学家知道这个已经有几十年了，现在是政策制定者开始关心这个的时候了，他们应该听听心理学家的，而不只是经济学家的建议。
en:Now the striking thing about thisis that psychologists have known thisfor 30 years.Psychologists have knownabout the negative consequences of incentivizing everythingfor 30 years.We know that if you reward kids for drawing pictures,they stop caring about the drawingand care only about the reward.If you reward kids for reading books,they stop caring about what&#39;s in the booksand only care about how long they are.If you reward teachers for kids&#39; test scores,they stop caring about educatingand only care about test preparation.If you were to reward doctorsfor doing more procedures —which is the current system — they would do more.If instead you reward doctors for doing fewer procedures,they will do fewer.What we want, of course,is doctors who do just the right amount of proceduresand do the right amount for the right reason —namely, to serve the welfare of their patients.Psychologists have known this for decades,and it&#39;s time for policymakersto start paying attentionand listen to psychologists a little bit,instead of economists.
时间：15:03
zh-cn:社会本来不必像现在这样，我和肯尼斯都认为希望是真的存在的。我们从所有这些领域中发现有一批人，一些我们称为精明的犯规者的人。这些被逼在这个要求照章办事和制造奖励机制的系统里工作的人在规范中钻空子，找到推倒规则的方法。所以，需要按照教案上课的老师当他们知道用这些教案的话，孩子会一无所获时，他们就要按照教案快速地走一遍，拐弯抹角地找出多余的时间，来用他们知道的有效的办法来教学。这些人是平常人物，是日常生活中的英雄，但是极其令人钦佩。但是他们不可能保持这样的做法太久，因为他们面对的是一个系统，这个系统不是将他们剔除出去就是把他们磨碎让他们屈服。
en:And it doesn&#39;t have to be this way.We think, Ken and I, that there are real sources of hope.We identify one set of peoplein all of these practiceswho we call canny outlaws.These are peoplewho, being forced to operatein a system that demands rule-followingand creates incentives,find away around the rules,find a way to subvert the rules.So there are teachers who have these scripts to follow,and they know that if they follow these scripts, the kids will learn nothing.And so what they do is they follow the scripts,but they follow the scripts at double-timeand squirrel away little bits of extra timeduring which they teach in the waythat they actually know is effective.So these are little ordinary, everyday heroes,and they&#39;re incredibly admirable,but there&#39;s no way that they can sustain this kind of activityin the face of a systemthat either roots them outor grinds them down.
时间：16:01
zh-cn:但是有这些精明的犯规者比没有要好，但是很难想象这样的犯规行为能长期持续。更有希望的是那些我们称之为改变系统的人。这些人不是躲避系统规则和制度，而是寻求改变系统的方法。我们讲几个这样的例子。其中特别要提到的是一个叫罗伯特·罗素（Robert Russel）的法官。有一天他接了加里·佩腾吉（Gary Pettengill）的案子。佩腾吉是一个23岁的老兵，他原来想在军队里发展职业生涯，但是在伊拉克受了严重的背伤而被迫病退。他结了婚， 第三个孩子就要出生，除了背伤之外， 他还得了创伤后应激障碍，会反复做恶梦。他开始用大麻来帮助减轻一些症状，因为背伤，他只能做一些兼职工作，所以他赚的钱不够养家糊口，所以他开始卖大麻。他在一次扫毒活动中被抓获。他的全家被赶出了公寓，福利系统要把他的孩子带走。
en:So canny outlaws are better than nothing,but it&#39;s hard to imagine any canny outlawsustaining that for an indefinite period of time.More hopefulare people we call system-changers.These are people who are lookingnot to dodge the system&#39;s rules and regulations,but to transform the system,and we talk about several.One in particularis a judge named Robert Russell.And one day he was facedwith the case of Gary Pettengill.Pettengill was a 23-year-old vetwho had planned to make the army a career,but then he got a severe back injury in Iraq,and that forced him to take a medical discharge.He was married, he had a third kid on the way,he suffered from PTSD, in addition to the bad back,and recurrent nightmares,and he had started using marijuanato ease some of the symptoms.He was only able to get part-time work because of his back,and so he was unable to earn enough to put food on the tableand take care of his family.So he started selling marijuana.He was busted in a drug sweep.His family was kicked out of their apartment,and the welfare systemwas threatening to take away his kids.
时间：17:13
zh-cn:如果按正常的审判过程，罗素法官别无选择，只能把佩腾吉当作毒品犯人判他蹲很多年监狱。但是法官罗素有另外一条途径，因为他是在一个特殊的法庭，他所在的法庭是老兵法庭。在老兵法庭——这是美国的第一个这类的法庭，法官罗素创立了这个老兵法庭，专门给触犯法律的老兵用的法庭。他之所以创立这个法庭正是因为强制性判刑的法律使得判刑过程中已经不用作判断。没有人真的想把非暴力的犯罪分子——特别是非暴力的犯了罪的老兵——送进监狱。他们想要做一点我们称之为刑事司法系统的旋转大门的事情。而老兵法庭所做的就是把每个罪犯都当人看，试图弄清楚他们的问题，试图针对他们的罪行找到某种方式来帮助他们改造自己，而不是一旦判了刑就忘了他们。而是和他们一起， 跟踪他们的发展，保证他们在按共同制定的计划在改造，以帮他们度过难关。
en:Under normal sentencing procedures,Judge Russell would have had little choicebut to sentence Pettengill to serious jail-timeas a drug felon.But Judge Russell did have an alternative.And that&#39;s because he was in a special court.He was in a court called the Veterans&#39; Court.In the Veterans&#39; Court —this was the first of its kind in the United States.Judge Russell created the Veterans&#39; Court.It was a court only for veteranswho had broken the law.And he had created it exactly becausemandatory sentencing lawswere taking the judgment out of judging.No one wanted non-violent offenders —and especially non-violent offenders who were veterans to boot —to be thrown into prison.They wanted to do something about what we all know,namely the revolving door of the criminal justice system.And what the Veterans&#39; Court did,was it treated each criminal as an individual,tried to get inside their problems,tried to fashion responses to their crimesthat helped them to rehabilitate themselves,and didn&#39;t forget about them once the judgment was made.Stayed with them, followed up on them,made sure that they were sticking to whatever planhad been jointly developedto get them over the hump.
时间：18:30
zh-cn:现在已经有22个城市有类似的老兵法庭了。为什么这个点子会得到传播呢？一个原因是罗素法官到今年2月份为止，已经在老兵法庭处理了108个老兵的案子，108个案子中，你们猜猜有几个重新走进审判的大门被投入监狱的呢？一个也没有，一个也没有。任何人做梦都希望刑事司法系统能有这样的记录。所以这是一个改造系统者，其成果令人瞩目。
en:There are now 22 citiesthat have Veterans&#39; Courts like this.Why has the idea spread?Well, one reason isthat Judge Russellhas now seen 108 vetsin his Veterans&#39; Courtas of February of this year,and out of 108,guess how many have gone back throughthe revolving door of justiceinto prison.None. None.Anyone would glom ontoa criminal justice systemthat has this kind of a record.So here&#39;s is a system-changer, and it seems to be catching.
时间：19:07
zh-cn:另外有一个银行家，创造了营利的社区银行，鼓励银行家，我知道这个难以置信鼓励在那里工作的银行家门通过帮助低收入的顾客来达成自己的工作目标。那家银行帮助筹资重建了一个原本快要垮了的社区。虽然按常规来讲给他们的贷款对象贷款的风险很高，但是事实上违约率却很低。这家银行盈利不错。那些银行家们与贷款客户一起，他们并不只是制造和出售贷款，他们是给贷款服务，他们保证他们的贷款人有能力持续还贷。银行业并不一直是象我们现在报纸里读到的那样。即便是高盛，在变成一个只给自己服务的机构之前也曾经是为客户提供服务的。银行业以前并不像现在，也不必须是现在这个样子。
en:There&#39;s a bankerwho created a for-profit community bankthat encouraged bankers — I know this is hard to believe —encouraged bankers who worked there to do wellby doing good for their low-income clients.The bank helped finance the rebuildingof what was otherwise a dying community.Though their loan recipients were high-risk by ordinary standards,the default rate was extremely low.The bank was profitable.The bankers stayed with their loan recipients.They didn&#39;t make loans and then sell the loans.They serviced the loans.They made sure that their loan recipientswere staying up with their payments.Banking hasn&#39;t always beenthe way we read about it now in the newspapers.Even Goldman Sachsonce used to serve clients,before it turned into an institutionthat serves only itself.Banking wasn&#39;t always this way,and it doesn&#39;t have to be this way.
时间：20:10
zh-cn:在医学界也有这样的例子——在哈佛的博士们正在尝试医学教育改革，让你不会像现在的医学院学生一样，在接受专业训练的过程中道德标准降低，同情心磨灭。他们用的方法是为三年级的学生分配病人，他们要跟踪病人一整年。这样病人就不只是器官组成的系统而已，不只是疾病，他们是人， 是有血有肉的活人。想成为一个成功有效的医生，对待病人应该像对待一个有生命的人，而不只是带有疾病的人。另外， 还有很多来回的反复让学生互相辅导，让医生指导所有的学生，这样做的结果是——我们希望——下一代的医生能为他们治疗的病人付出病人需要的时间。我们拭目以待。
en:So there are examples like this in medicine —doctors at Harvardwho are trying to transform medical education,so that you don&#39;t get a kind of ethical erosionand loss of empathy,which characterizes most medical studentsin the course of their medical training.And the way they do it is to give third-year medical studentspatients who they follow for an entire year.So the patients are not organ systems,and they&#39;re not diseases;they&#39;re people, people with lives.And in order to be an effective doctor,you need to treat people who have lives and not just disease.In addition to which there&#39;s an enormous amount of back and forth,mentoring of one student by another,of all the students by the doctors,and the result is a generation — we hope — of doctorswho do have time for the people they treat.We&#39;ll see.
时间：20:56
zh-cn:还有很多类似我们讲的事例。每个事例都告诉我们树立和培养人格，同时，让所有职业都忠实于其真正的使命——就是亚里斯多德所说的“真正终级目标”——是可能的。肯尼斯和我都相信这就是实践者真正想要的。人们希望能够做有品德的人，他们希望得到允许做正确的事情。他们不想每天下班回家以后感觉好像都要冲一个澡来冲刷干净他们身上的道德污垢。
en:So there are lots of examples like this that we talk about.Each of them shows that it is possibleto build on and nurture characterand keep a professiontrue to its proper mission —what Aristotle would have called its proper telos.And Ken and I believethat this is what practitioners actually want.People want to be allowedto be virtuous.They want to have permission to do the right thing.They don&#39;t want to feellike they need to take a showerto get the moral grime off their bodies everydaywhen they come home from work.
时间：21:34
zh-cn:亚里斯多德认为酌情处理的智慧是快乐幸福的关键，他是对的。心理学已经做了大量的研究来证明什么使得人们幸福，两样东西在研究中一再凸显，我知道这会让你们大吃一惊，对幸福度最有影响的两个东西是：爱和工作。爱，就是成功地处理和你亲近的人的关系，和你所处群体的关系。工作：就是投入到有意义和令你感到满足的活动中去。如果你拥有了亲和的关系，工作富有意义，你其实已经不再需要多少其他东西。
en:Aristotle thought that practical wisdomwas the key to happiness,and he was right.There&#39;s now a lot of research being done in psychologyon what makes people happy,and the two things that jump out in study after study —I know this will come as a shock to all of you —the two things that matter most to happinessare love and work.Love: managing successfullyrelations with the people who are close to youand with the communities of which you are a part.Work: engaging in activitiesthat are meaningful and satisfying.If you have that, good close relations with other people,work that&#39;s meaningful and fulfilling,you don&#39;t much need anything else.
时间：22:20
zh-cn:然而，要能做到好好爱，好好工作，你需要智慧。规则和奖励机制不会告诉你怎样成为一个好朋友，怎样成为好的家长，怎样成为一个好的配偶，怎样成为一个好的医生，好的律师，好的老师。规则和奖励绝对不是智慧的替代品。事实上，我们的观点是：智慧没有替代品。因此实用智慧不需要实践者做出自我牺牲的英雄壮举。实用智慧不仅赋予我们愿望和技巧去做正确的事情——让他人做正确的事情——也赋予了我们愿望和技巧来自己做正确的事情。
en:Well, to love well and to work well,you need wisdom.Rules and incentives don&#39;t tell youhow to be a good friend, how to be a good parent,how to be a good spouse,or how to be a good doctor or a good lawyeror a good teacher.Rules and incentivesare no substitutes for wisdom.Indeed, we argue,there is no substitute for wisdom.And so practical wisdomdoes not requireheroic acts of self-sacrificeon the part of practitioners.In giving us the will and the skillto do the right thing — to do right by others —practical wisdom also gives usthe will and the skillto do right by ourselves.
时间：23:07
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thanks.
时间：23:09
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
