时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我今天和你们分享一个不同寻常的旅行 -一个不同寻常的有价值的旅行，事实上 -我训练老鼠去拯救人类的生命通过探测地雷和发现肺结核。孩童时，我有两个梦想。第一个梦想是关于啮齿类动物的。我有各种各样的鼠，老鼠，仓鼠，沙土鼠，松鼠。你们能叫上名的鼠，我都喂养过，然后我将它们卖到宠物商店。（笑声）我还有一个关于非洲的梦想。在一个多元文化的环境中长大，我们学校里有非洲的学生，然后我了解到了他们的故事，（非常）不同的背景，依赖于引进的技术，物品，服务，丰富的多元文化。非洲对我很有吸引力。
en:I&#39;m here today to share with youan extraordinary journey -extraordinarily rewarding journey,actually -which brought me intotraining ratsto save human livesby detecting landminesand tuberculosis.As a child, I had two passions.One was a passion for rodents.I had all kinds of rats,mice, hamsters,gerbils, squirrels.You name it, I bred it, and I sold them to pet shops.(Laughter)I also had a passion for Africa.Growing up in a multicultural environment,we had African students in the house,and I learned about their stories,so different backgrounds,dependency on imported know-how,goods, services,exuberant cultural diversity.Africa was truly fascinating for me.
时间： 1:07
zh-cn:我成为了工业工程师 -产品研发的工程师 -我负责相应的探测技术，实际上对于发展中国家也是第一个适用的技术。我开始在工业界工作，但是我工作不开心来迎合商品消费为主的线性市场，以及行销手段和生产的模式。我辞掉了工作专注于实际的现实问题：地雷。我们现在在讨论1995年。Diana戴安娜王妃在电视上宣布地雷对于发展来说成为阻碍，事实上确实如此。只要地雷在那里，或者有可能存在地雷，你就不能到那片土地。实际上，全球范围都需要新的探测器为了可持续发展的环境，急需这些探测器的地方尤其是在发展中国家。我们选择了鼠。
en:I became an industrial engineer,engineer in product development,and I focused on appropriate detection technologies,actually the first appropriate technologiesfor developing countries.I started working in the industry,but I wasn&#39;t really happy to contributeto a material consumer societyin a linear, extractingand manufacturing mode.I quit my job to focus on the real world problem:landmines.We&#39;re talking &#39;95 now.Princess Diana is announcing on TVthat landmines form a structural barrierto any development, which is really true.As long as these devices are there,or there is suspicion of landmines,you can&#39;t really enter into the land.Actually, there was an appeal worldwidefor new detectorssustainable in the environmentswhere they&#39;re needed to produce,which is mainly in the developing world.We chose rats.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:为什么会选择鼠呢？因为，它们是害虫？但是，事实上鼠是 -和多数人想的相反 -鼠是非常友善的生物。而且实际上，我们的产品 - 你们所看到的。这里某个地方有个地雷。你看到了一个受过训练的非洲探测者，和在他前面的鼠实际上是左右相伴。鼠在那里发现了地雷。它挖土地。然后鼠得到了食品奖励。非常，非常简单。非常环保。这里鼠得到了食品奖励。这是它的工作方式。非常，非常简单。
en:Why would you choose rats?Because, aren&#39;t they vermin?Well, actually rats are,in contrary to what most people think about them,rats are highly sociable creatures.And actually, our product — what you see here.There&#39;s a target somewhere here.You see an operator, a trained Africanwith his rats in frontwho actually are left and right.There, the animal finds a mine.It scratches on the soil.And the animal comes back for a food reward.Very, very simple.Very sustainable in this environment.Here, the animal gets its food reward.And that&#39;s how it works.Very, very simple.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:现在为什么使用鼠呢？鼠自从上世纪50年代被使用在各种各样的实验中。鼠在嗅觉方面有更多的基因相比于其它哺乳动物。它们对于味道非常敏感。进而，它们具备确定这些味道方位的能力并能够表达出来。我们怎么和鼠交流呢？不用语言，但是我们有一个发声器，一个标准的动物训练的方法，就是你看到的。一个发生器，发出特殊的声音可以强化某类特定行为。首先，我们将声音与食品奖励联系起来，奖励品是碎香蕉和花生做成的液体。一旦鼠听到了声音，就有食物吃，声音，食物，声音，食物 -所以一旦有声音就是食物的反应 -我们把鼠带到有个洞的笼子里，然后实际上鼠学会将鼻子放到洞口下面带有目标气味的洞口，它们停留5秒钟 -5秒钟，对鼠来说很长。一旦鼠知道了这个，我们让任务变得难一些。它学习如何找到目标气味在带有一些洞的笼子里，共有10个洞。
en:Now why would you use rats?Rats have been used since the &#39;50s last century,in all kinds of experiments.Rats have more genetic materialallocated to olfactionthan any other mammal species.They&#39;re extremely sensitive to smell.Moreover, they have the mechanisms to map all these smellsand to communicate about it.Now how do we communicate with rats?Well don&#39;t talk rat,but we have a clicker,a standard method for animal training,which you see there.A clicker, which makes a particular soundwith which you can reinforce particular behaviors.First of all, we associate the click sound with a food reward,which is smashed banana and peanuts together in a syringe.Once the animal knows click, food,click, food, click, food —so click is food —we bring it in a cage with a hole,and actually the animal learnsto stick the nose in the holeunder which a target scent is placed,and to do that for five seconds —five seconds, which is long for a rat.Once the animal knows this, we make the task a bit more difficult.It learns how to find the target smellin a cage with several holes, up to 10 holes.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:然后鼠学会拴着皮带在空地上走并发现目标。在下一步,鼠学会在地雷区发现真正的地雷。它们被测试和认证通过国际地雷工作标准，就像狗通过测试一样。在这400平方米的雷区，那里有一些地雷随意地摆放。然后训练者和他们的鼠需要发现所有的目标。如果鼠成功了，它得到许可作为被认证的动物在雷区工作 -就像狗。可能一个很小的不同是我们可以用五分之一的价钱训练鼠相比起训练探雷狗的价钱。
en:Then the animal learnsto walk on a leash in the openand find targets.In the next step, animals learnto find real mines in real minefields.They are tested and accreditedaccording to International Mine Action Standards,just like dogs have to pass a test.This consists of 400 square meters.There&#39;s a number of minesplaced blindly,and the team of trainer and their rathave to find all the targets.If the animal does that, it gets a licenseas an accredited animalto be operational in the field —just like dogs, by the way.Maybe one slight difference:we can train rats at a fifth of the priceof training the mining dog.
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:这是我们在莫桑比克的队伍。一个坦桑尼亚的训练者，将本领传授给这三个莫桑比克同伴。你应该能够看到他们眼中的自豪。他们有本领，这使得他们更少得依靠国外援助。进而，这个小团队当然也需要重型卡车和人工排雷人员一起进行后续工作。但是通过在鼠本领上的很小投资，我们在莫桑比克证明我们可以将每平方米的成本降低百分之六十。相比现在一般的情况 -每平方米两美元，我们是每平方米1.18美元，而且我们还可以进一步降低。关于发展的问题。如果能够使用更多的鼠，我们就可以创造更大的产出。我们在莫桑比克有演示地点。11个非洲政府看到他们通过使用这种手段就可以变得更少依赖外部援助。他们签订了和平的协定和在大湖区的公约。然后他们支持英雄鼠去清除公共边界上的地雷。
en:This is our team in Mozambique:one Tanzanian trainer,who transfers the skillsto these three Mozambican fellows.And you should see the pride in the eyes of these people.They have a skill,which makes them much less dependenton foreign aid.Moreover, this small teamtogether with, of course, you need the heavy vehiclesand the manual de-miners to follow-up.But with this small investment in a rat capacity,we have demonstrated in Mozambiquethat we can reduce the cost-price per square meterup to 60 percentof what is currently normal —two dollars per square meter, we do it at $1.18,and we can still bring that price down.Question of scale.If you can bring in more rats,we can actually make the output even bigger.We have a demonstration site in Mozambique.Eleven African governmentshave seen that they can become less dependentby using this technology.They have signed the pact for peaceand treaty in the Great Lakes region,and they endorse hero ratsto clear their common borders of landmines.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:但是让我告诉你们一个完全不同的问题。在去年大概有6000人走到地雷上，但是去年，全球有近190万人死于结核病这成为传染病的第一死因。尤其在非洲结核病和艾滋病紧密地结合着，这是一个巨大的共同的问题。根据标准的世界卫生组织程序，显微镜达到百分之四十到六十的可靠度。在坦桑尼亚 - 数字不会说谎 -百分之四十五的人是结核病人 -在死前被诊断出结核。这说明，如果你得了结核病，你反而有更大的可能性不被检测出不适，但仍然通过结核第二期并发症等致死。但是，如果你很早被检测出来，诊断出来，治疗可以开始。然后即使是艾滋病阳性，这也是可以治疗的。事实上，你可以治愈结核病，即便是艾滋病阳性病毒。
en:But let me bring you to a very different problem.And there&#39;s about 6,000 people last yearthat walked on a landmine,but worldwide last year,almost 1.9 million died from tuberculosisas a first cause of infection.Especially in Africawhere T.B. and HIV are strongly linked,there is a huge common problem.Microscopy, the standard WHO procedure,reaches from 40 to 60 percent reliability.In Tanzania — the numbers don&#39;t lie —45 percent of people — T.B. patients —get diagnosed with T.B. before they die.It means that, if you have T.B.,you have more chance that you won&#39;t be detected,but will just die from T.B. secondary infections and so on.And if, however,you are detected very early, diagnosed early,treatment can start,and even in HIV-positives, it makes sense.You can actually cure T.B.,even in HIV-positives.
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:所以在我们共同的语言，荷兰语，结核病的名称是tering，语源上是焦油的味道。古代中国和希腊希波克拉底，实际上曾经发表了也记载了结核病可以被诊断通过从病人身体排出的挥发物。所以我们做的是收集一些样本 -就像测试一样 -从医院里，通过它们训练鼠然后看是否有效，并且惊奇发现，我们的鼠可以达到百分之八十九的灵敏度，百分之八十六的专一性通过使用多只鼠在一组测试。这是工作的方式。并且实际上，这是一般的技术。我们现在讨论的是有关爆炸物，结核，但是你能想象，你可以应用鼠于任何地方。
en:So in our common language, Dutch,the name for T.B.is &quot;tering,&quot;which, etymologically,refers to the smell of tar.Already the old Chineseand the Greek, Hippocrates,have actually published,documented, that T.B. can be diagnosedbased on the volatilesexuding from patients.So what we did is we collected some samples —just as a way of testing —from hospitals,trained rats on themand see if this works,and wonder, well,we can reach 89 percent sensitivity,86 percent specificityusing multiple rats in a row.This is how it works,and really, this is a generic technology.We&#39;re talking now explosives, tuberculosis,but can you imagine,you can actually put anything under there.
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:所以怎么工作呢？你在小盒里放10个样本。你一次在笼子里放10个样本。一只鼠仅需要0.005秒去分辨气味，所以是非常快的。这里已经是第三个样本了。这是阳性样本。它听到响声并得到食品奖励。这样，非常快的，我们可以得到附属的观点去判断病人的检测是否呈阳性，是否呈阴性。就像研究显示，当一个显微镜工作者能够处理每天40个样本，一只鼠能够处理同等数量的样本仅在7分钟。一个这样的笼子 -（掌声）一个这样的笼子 - 并且你有鼠，现在我们有25只结核探测鼠 -一个这样的笼子，每天运作，可以处理1680个样本。你能想象可能的衍生应用 -环境探测土地中的污染物，海关应用，探测容器中的非法物品等等。
en:So how does it work?You have a cassette with 10 samples.You put these 10 samples at once in the cage.An animal only needs two hundredths of a secondto discriminate the scent, so it goes extremely fast.Here it&#39;s already at the third sample.This is a positive sample.It gets a click sound and comes for the food reward.And by doing so, very fast,we can have like a second-line opinionto see which patients are positive,which are negative.Just as an indication,whereas a microscopist can process40 samples in a day,a rat can processthe same amount of samplesin seven minutes only.A cage like this —(Applause)A cage like this — provided that you have rats,and we have now currently25 tuberculosis rats —a cage like this, operating throughout the day,can process 1,680 samples.Can you imagine the potential offspring applications —environmental detectionof pollutants in soils,customs applications,detection of illicit goods in containers and so on.
时间： 9:30
zh-cn:但是首先用于结核病。我想简单得强调，蓝色的杆是只用显微镜的结果在Dar es Salaam达累斯萨拉姆的五个诊所对50万人，其中1万5千人做过测试。这是1800个病人的显微镜结果。然后通过将这些样品多次交给鼠类并将结果返回，我们能够将探测率提高超过百分之三十。去年一整年，我们 - 通过不同间隔时间 -我们持续地提高鼠探测率在达累斯萨拉姆的五个医院并使鼠探测率提高到百分之三十到四十之间。所以这真的是很可观的。要知道，一个被显微镜误诊的患者会感染15个人 -每年15个健康的人，你可以确定我们拯救了很多生命。至少我们的英雄鼠拯救了很多生命。
en:But let&#39;s stick first to tuberculosis.I just want to briefly highlight,the blue rodsare the scores of microscopy onlyat the five clinics in Dar es Salaamon a population of 500,000 people,where 15,000 reported to get a test done.Microscopy for 1,800 patients.And by just presenting the samples once more to the ratsand looping those results back,we were able to increase case detection ratesby over 30 percent.Throughout last year,we&#39;ve been — depending on which intervals you take —we&#39;ve been consistentlyincreasing case detection ratesin five hospitals in Dar es Salaambetween 30 and 40 percent.So this is really considerable.Knowing that a missed patient by microscopyinfects up to 15 people,healthy people, per year,you can be surethat we have saved lots of lives.At least our hero rats have saved lots of lives.
时间：10:28
zh-cn:我们要做的是现在去标准化这种技术。然后简单的事情随之出现像，例如，我们在探测洞放小的激光使鼠呆五秒。所以，去标准化这个事情。而且，去标准化小球，食品奖励，去半自动化这个事为了能够在更大的范围内得到推广并且挽救到更多人的生命。作为结束，还有很多类似的其他应用。这是第一个模型对我们的相机鼠，背着背包内装有一个相机可以在地震后走到碎石底下去探测受害者等等。这是在模型阶段。我们还没有运作系统。
en:The way forward for usis now to standardize this technology.And there are simple thingslike, for instance, we have a small laser in the sniffer holewhere the animal has to stick for five seconds.So, to standardize this.Also, to standardize the pellets,the food rewards,and to semi-automate thisin order to replicate this on a much larger scaleand affect the lives of many more people.To conclude, there are also other applications at the horizon.Here is a first prototypeof our camera rat,which is a rat with a rat backpackwith a camera that can go under rubbleto detect for victimsafter earthquake and so on.This is in a prototype stage.We don&#39;t have a working system here yet.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:作为结尾，我实际想要说，你可能想这都有关于鼠，这些活动都涉及鼠，但是最后这都是关于人类。这是关于给予弱小群体能力去处理困难棘手的，昂贵的和危险的人类探测工作，并且应用当地的资源 -很多现成的资源。所以现在很不一样的是不断地挑战大家对周围的资源认知，不管是环境的，技术的，动物或人类的认知。然后我们要尊重并和它们和谐共处为了实现可持续的工作。
en:To conclude, I would actually like to say,you may think this is about rats, these projects,but in the end it is about people.It is about empowering vulnerable communitiesto tackle difficult, expensiveand dangerous humanitarian detection tasks,and doing that with a local resource,plenty available.So something completely differentis to keep on challenging your perceptionabout the resources surrounding you,whether they are environmental,technological, animal, or human.And to respectfully harmonize with themin order to foster a sustainable world.
时间：11:57
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：11:59
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
