时间： 0:11
zh-cn:（蚊子叫）
en:(Mosquito buzzing)
时间： 0:21
zh-cn:（拍打）
en:(Swat)
时间： 0:24
zh-cn:打着了！
en:Gotcha.
时间： 0:27
zh-cn:我恨死蚊子了你们也一样吧夜晚那恼人的蚊子叫萦绕耳边真是让人崩溃想象蚊子向你的皮肤里打进一根针吸走你的血——真是太恶心了！事实上，关于蚊子我只能想到一点还能说得过去就是它们晚上飞进我们的卧室比较喜欢咬我太太
en:Mosquitos. I hate them.Don&#39;t you?That awful buzzing sound at night around your earsthat drives you absolutely crazy?Knowing that she wants to stick a needle in your skinand suck out your blood? That&#39;s awful, right?In fact, there&#39;s only one good thing I can think ofwhen it gets to mosquitos.When they fly into our bedroom at night,they prefer to bite my wife.
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:这其中大有玄机为什么她比我招蚊子咬？答案是体味我们的气味各不相同，皮肤制造不同的化学物质有些吸引蚊子，有些则排斥蚊子有些人确实比较招蚊子所以说我太太比我好闻或者说我比她臭
en:But that&#39;s fascinating, right?Why does she receive more bites than I do?And the answer is smell, the smell of her body.And since we all smell different and produce chemicalson our skin that either attract or repel mosquitos,some of us are just more attractive than others.So my wife smells nicer than I do, or I juststink more than she does.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:不管怎么样，蚊子在黑暗中通过嗅觉找人它们闻得出我们读博士的时候，我想搞清楚蚊子通过我们皮肤上的哪种化学物质来挑人在夜晚，那些非洲疟蚊如何在黑暗中跟踪我们它们使用一整组物质这个任务可不容易完成于是我们设计了各种实验我们为什么设计这些实验？因为世界人口的一半面临着身患致命疾病——疟疾的风险而关键是消除蚊子叮咬每30秒，世界上的某个角落就有一个孩子死于疟疾。今天早上保罗.莱维谈到了美国波音727飞机坠毁事故的隐喻而在非洲，(疟疾导致的)死亡相当于7架大型747客机每天坠毁也许，如果我们能把蚊子引入陷阱用我们的体味作为诱饵，也许就能够阻止疾病传播
en:Either way, mosquitos find us in the darkby sniffing us out. They smell us.And during my Ph.D, I wanted to know exactlywhat chemicals from our skin mosquitos used,African malarial mosquitos use to track us down at night.And there&#39;s a whole range of compounds that they do use.And this was not going to be an easy task.And therefore, we set up various experiments.Why did we set up these experiments?Because half the world&#39;s population runs the riskof contracting a killer disease like malariathrough a simple mosquito bite.Every 30 seconds, somewhere on this planet,a child dies of malaria, and Paul Levy this morning,he was talking about the metaphor of the 727 crashing into the United States.Well, in Africa, we have the equivalent of seven jumbo 747scrashing every day.But perhaps if we can attract these mosquitos to traps,bait it with our smell, we may be able to stop transmissionof disease.
时间： 2:26
zh-cn:解决这个问题可要花不少工夫因为我们的皮肤制造上百种不同的化学物质但我们完成了一些了不起的实验帮助我们迅速厘清了解开难题的关键
en:Now solving this puzzle was not an easy thing,because we produce hundreds of different chemicals on the skin,but we undertook some remarkable experimentsthat managed us to resolve this puzzle very quickly indeed.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:首先，我们观察到不是所有的蚊子都叮咬人类身体的同一个部位。这挺奇怪我们设计了一个实验我们让一名全身赤裸的志愿者戴在一个大笼子里然后放进蚊子看看这些蚊子叮咬哪些身体部位我们发现了显著的差异你们看到左边图片上的这些咬痕是被荷兰疟蚊叮咬的咬痕明显集中于面部而相反的，非洲疟蚊却喜欢咬脚踝和脚当然，（这可能是因为）众所周知——蚊子被叫做“mosqui-toes”（蚊子的英文单词结尾toes是脚趾的意思）（笑声）这太对了（掌声）
en:First, we observed that not all mosquito speciesbite on the same part of the body. Strange.So we set up an experimentwhereby we put a naked volunteer in a large cage,and in that cage we released mosquitosto see where they were biting on the body of that person.And we found some remarkable differences.On the left here you see the bitesby the Dutch malarial mosquito on this person.They had a very strong preference for biting on the face.In contrast, the African malarial mosquitohad a very strong preference for biting the ankles and feet of this person,and that of course we should have known all alongbecause they&#39;re called mosqui-toes, you see? (Laughter)That&#39;s right. (Applause)
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:于是我们集中研究脚上的气味研究人类脚上的气味我们在论文中得出了一个惊人的结论奶酪不如脚丫子味道重可别搞反了。想想看吧。这启发了我们去做另外一项重要的实验我们试着用一小块林堡奶酪它有一种近似脚臭的臭味来吸引非洲疟蚊你们知道吗？竟然有效！事实上，它的功效让我们开发出一种林堡奶酪气味的人工混合物，在坦桑尼亚使用事实证明它对于蚊子，较之人类，有两到三倍的吸引力林堡，自豪吧你们的奶酪可是抗击疟疾的利器（掌声）这就是我提到的奶酪
en:And so we started focusing on the smell of feet,on the smell of human feet,until we came across a remarkable statement in the literaturethat said that cheese smells after feetrather than the reverse. Think of it.And this triggered us to do a remarkable experiment.We tried, with a tiny little piece of Limburger cheese,which smells badly after feet,to attract African malaria mosquitos.And you know what? It worked.In fact, it worked so well that now we have a synthetic mixtureof the aroma of Limburger cheese that we&#39;re using in Tanzaniaand has been shown there to be two to three timesmore attractive to mosquitos than humans.Limburg, be proud of your cheese,as it is now used in the fight against malaria.(Applause)That&#39;s the cheese, just to show you.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:我的第二个故事同样精彩是关于人类最好的朋友——狗狗们我会向你们展示如何用狗来对付疟疾杀死蚊子的最好办法可不是等到成虫飞到我们身边叮咬人类传播疾病的时候而是在它们还是水中的幼虫时候为什么？因为它们就像CIA在水塘里，幼虫集中在一起全部固守在一个地方它们不能逃离那片水塘，它们还不会飞翔它们容易接触。你可以走到池塘边把它们全杀光。是不是？
en:My second story is remarkable as well.It&#39;s about man&#39;s best friend. It&#39;s about dogs.And I will show youhow we can use dogs in the fight against malaria.One of the best ways of killing mosquitosis not to wait until they fly around like adultsand bite people and transmit disease.It&#39;s to kill them when they&#39;re still in the water as larvae.Why? Because they are just like the CIA.In that pool of water, these larvae are concentrated.They&#39;re all together there. They are immobile.They can&#39;t escape from that water. They can&#39;t fly.And they&#39;re accessible. You can actually walk upto that pool and you can kill them there, right?
时间： 5:19
zh-cn:我们于是遇到的问题是漫山遍野的水塘充斥着幼虫它们到处都是这让杀虫员很难找到所有的据点来喷洒杀虫剂去年，我们绞尽脑汁来找解决之道。直到我们意识到就像人类有独特的气味一样蚊子幼虫也有独特的气味
en:So the problem that we face with this is that,throughout the landscape, all these pools of waterwith the larvae, they are scattered all over the place,which makes it very hard for an inspector like thisto actually find all these breeding sites and treat them with insecticides.And last year we thought very, very hard,how can we resolve this problem? Until we realizedthat just like us, we have a unique smell,that mosquito larvae also have a very unique smell.
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:我们开始着手另外一项大胆的实验我们收集蚊子幼虫的气味弄到布料上，然后做出一项壮举这根横木上有四个洞我们把沾有幼虫气味的布料放在最左边的洞里面哦，这段放的有点快你们看到这只狗，他叫粗花呢，是一只边境牧羊犬他在检查这些洞，他已经闻出来了他回来又检查了一遍控制洞但又回到第一个洞锁定了这个气味这意味着我们可以使用狗来帮助杀虫员更好地找到这片田野里蚊子的繁殖区更好地去打击疟疾这位女士名叫艾伦.冯.德.兹威普。她是世界一流的训狗师她认为我们能做的还远远不止这些由于我们也知道疟疾寄生虫的携带者与没有感染的人有不同的气味她相信我们也可以通过训练狗来找到这些携带者这就意味着在一个疟疾基本得到控制的人群中只有很少的人是携带者而狗能找到这些人我们可以使用抗疟疾药物为他们治疗，彻底终结疟疾狗也是人类抗击疟疾的最好朋友
en:And so we set up another crazy experiment,because we collected the smell of these larvae,put it on pieces of cloth, and then did something very remarkable.Here we have a bar with four holes,and we put the smell of these larvae in the left hole.Ooh, that was very quick.And then you see the dog. It&#39;s called Tweed. It&#39;s a border collie.He&#39;s examining these holes, and now he&#39;s got it already.He&#39;s going back to check the control holes again,but he&#39;s coming back to the first one,and now he&#39;s locking into that smell,which means that now we can use dogswith these inspectors to much better findthe breeding sites of mosquitos in the field,and therefore have a much bigger impact on malaria.This lady is Ellen van der Zweep. She&#39;s one of the best dog-trainers in the world,and she believes that we can do a lot more.Since we also know that people that carry malaria parasitessmell different compared to people that are uninfected,she&#39;s convinced that we can train dogsto find people that carry the parasite.That means that in a population where malariahas gone down all the way, and there&#39;s few people remaining with parasites,that the dogs can find these people,we can treat them with anti-malarial drugs, and give the final blow to malaria.Man&#39;s best friend in the fight against malaria.
时间： 7:00
zh-cn:我的第三个故事也许更有意义而且我得说今天是我第一次对公众讲述这个故事是的这很疯狂，但我相信这也许是最好的向蚊子复仇的终极武器事实上，有人告诉我他们现在居然享受被蚊子叮咬这里的疑问当然是，是什么让人们享受蚊子叮咬？答案是我口袋里就有我有这个这是一个药片，很简单的一个药片当我用水服下它能产生奇迹谢谢你（喝水）
en:My third story is perhaps even more remarkable,and, I should say, has never been shown to the public until today.Yeah.It&#39;s a crazy story, but I believe it&#39;s perhaps the bestand ultimate revenge against mosquitos ever.In fact, people have told me that now they will enjoybeing bitten by mosquitos.And the question of course is, what would make someoneenjoy being bitten by mosquitos?And the answerI have right here in my pocket,if I get it.It&#39;s a tablet, a simple tablet,and when I take it with water,it does miracles.Thank you.(Drinking)
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:让我告诉你们它有什么效果在这个盒子里有一个笼子关着好几百只饥饿的雌蚊子我即将释放它们（笑声）开玩笑，我只是在开玩笑我要把胳膊伸进去向你们展示它们咬过来有多迅速开始了！别慌，我在实验室里一直这么做好了，开始。现在我放的这个录像会向你们展示同样的情景唯一的不同是拍这段录像时我已经服药一个小时了看看吧。放错了……好。不好意思。我把胳膊放进去，我给了它们一顿大餐我把它们晃走，然后跟踪拍摄它们变得非常非常虚弱用快进来放三个小时后我们再来看笼子的底部全是死蚊子而且死透了。我要说，女士们先生们我们反败为胜了它们杀不了我们。我们能杀死它们。（鼓掌）
en:Now let me show you how this works.Here in this box I have a cagewith several hundred hungryfemale mosquitosthat I&#39;m just about to release. (Laughter)Just kidding, just kidding.What I&#39;m going to show you is I&#39;m gonna stick my arm into itand I will show you how quickly they will bite.Here we go.Don&#39;t worry, I do this all the time in the lab.There we go. Okay.Now, on the video, on the video here,I&#39;m going to show you exactly the same thing,except that what I&#39;m showing you on the videohappened one hour after I took the tablet.Have a look. That doesn&#39;t work. Okay. Sorry about that.I&#39;m sticking in my arm, I&#39;m giving them a big juicyblood meal, I&#39;m shaking them off, and we follow them through timeto see these mosquitos get very, very sick indeed,here shown in fast motion,and three hours later what we see at the bottomof the cage is dead mosquitos,very dead mosquitos, and I&#39;m going to say, ladies and gentlemen,we have swapped the cards with mosquitos.They don&#39;t kill us. We kill them.(Applause)
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:好了——（笑声）——马斯特里赫特，准备好了！让我们想想我们能做到什么我们可以用这种药来控制蚊子传播的瘟疫，对不对？更进一步，想象一下这种情形在一个广大地区，人人都吃了这种药吃上三个礼拜这就是个大好机会来真正消灭这个地区的疟疾
en:Now — (Laughter) —Maastricht, be prepared.Now think of what we can do with this.We can actually use this to contain outbreaksof mosquito-born diseases, of epidemics, right?And better still, imagine what would happen if,in a very large area, everyone would take these drugs,this drug, for just three weeks.That would give us an opportunity to actually eliminatemalaria as a disease.
时间： 9:52
zh-cn:用奶酪、狗、和药片来灭蚊这就是我喜欢研究的“偏门”科学为了人类的福祉特别是为了她。为了让她能在一个没有疟疾的世界长大。谢谢大家（鼓掌）
en:So cheese, dogs and a pill to kill mosquitos.That&#39;s the kind of out-of-the-box science that I love doing,for the betterment of mankind,but especially for her, so that she can grow upin a world without malaria. Thank you. (Applause)
