时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是一个博客作家、电影制作人、屠夫，让我来解释这些身份如何汇聚到一起。
en:I&#39;m a blogger, a filmmaker and a butcher,and I&#39;ll explain howthese identities come together.
时间： 0:18
zh-cn:一切都是从4年前，我和一个朋友在斋戒月的第一个夜晚去了纽约其中一间最繁忙的清真寺。一群群头戴瓜皮帽的大胡子男人挤满了街道。简直就是FBI特工的梦寐而求的美事。（笑声）但是作为这个社区的一员，我们知道这个地方是多么的热情友好。多年来，我看见这地方的照片被做成没有生命的、冰冷的磐石一般，就像典型的美国穆斯林的经历。
en:It started four years ago,when a friend and I openedour first Ramadan fastat one of the busiest mosquesin New York City.Crowds of men with beards and skullcapswere swarming the streets.It was an FBI agent&#39;s wet dream.(Laughter)But being a part of this community,we knew how welcoming this space was.For years, I&#39;d seen photos of this space being documentedas a lifeless and cold monolith,much like the stereotypical imagepainted of the American Muslim experience.
时间： 0:45
zh-cn:我和我的朋友为这种短浅的目光而恼火，我们也因此有了一个疯狂的念头：就是每晚在各个州不同的清真寺里，度过我们的斋月。并将期间的经历分享到博客里。我们管这个项目叫 “30个清真寺的30天”，我们驾车去了美国所有的50个州，并且分享了来自100多个互不相同的穆斯林社区的故事，包括洛杉矶项目中的柬埔寨难民，住在南卡罗莱纳州森林里的黑苏菲派。美国美丽又复杂的另一面逐渐呈现出来。媒体报道促使各地记者们重新探访他们当地的穆斯林社区，而真正激动人心的是，看到来自全世界的人们，因此受到启发，开始了他们自己的“30个清真寺”旅途。甚至有两个国家橄榄球联盟的队员专门请了假来做这件事。
en:Frustrated by this myopic view,my friend and I had this crazy idea:Let&#39;s break our fastat a different mosque in a different stateeach night of Ramadanand share those stories on a blog.We called it &quot;30 Mosques in 30 Days,&quot;and we drove to all the 50 statesand shared stories from over 100vastly different Muslim communities,ranging from the Cambodian refugeesin the L.A. projectsto the black Sufis livingin the woods of South Carolina.What emerged was a beautifuland complicated portrait of America.The media coverageforced local journaliststo revisit their Muslim communities,but what was really excitingwas seeing people from around the worldbeing inspired to taketheir own 30-mosque journey.There were even these two NFL athleteswho took a sabbaticalfrom the league to do so.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:这一计划在世界范围内越办越火，而同时我正在巴基斯坦忙着拍一部电影。我的合作导演欧玛和我和许多朋友争论到快要翻脸也定不下如何为这部电影定位。这部影片名字叫“行走的鸟”，内容是关于一群固执的流浪孩子，在挣扎地找寻一些象征家庭的存在。我们关注于年轻一代和家庭冲突的复杂性，但是我们的朋友一直鼓动我们讲无人机和定点杀戮使得这部电影更有“关联性”，而最终把这些信任我们的人们的故事降格为是一种社会政治学的象征。当然，我们没听他们的，而是捍卫其中温柔的爱意和稍纵即逝的年少。我们如此投入地做这部电影是因为我们发自内心的同情，一种经常被其他电影所忽略的情感，相比于其他来自同地区的电影。
en:And as 30 Mosqueswas blossoming around the world,I was actually stuck in Pakistanworking on a film.My codirector, Omar, and I were at a breaking point with many of our friendson how to position the film.The movie is called &quot;These Birds Walk,&quot;and it is about wayward street kidswho are struggling to findsome semblance of family.We focus on the complexitiesof youth and family discord,but our friends kept on nudging usto comment on drones and target killingsto make the film &quot;more relevant,&quot;essentially reducing these peoplewho have entrusted us with their storiesinto sociopolitical symbols.Of course, we didn&#39;t listen to them,and instead, we championedthe tender gestures of loveand headlong flashes of youth.The agenda behind our cinematic immersion was only empathy,an emotion that&#39;s largely deficient from filmsthat come from our region of the world.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:随着“行走的鸟”在世界的电影节上或者电影院里播出，我终于有机会在纽约的家里多待待，有许多空闲时间，仍然没什么真正的收入，我太太要求我多做做饭。每次我去附近屠夫那里买清真牛肉，我总觉得不太对劲。
en:And as &quot;These Birds Walk&quot; played at film festivals and theaters internationally,I finally had my feetplanted at home in New York,and with all the extra timeand still no real money,my wife tasked me to cook more for us.And whenever I&#39;d go to the local butcherto purchase some halal meat,something felt off.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:如果你不了解，“清真肉类”是指，那些严格遵循伊斯兰教义人道养殖和宰杀的肉。不幸的是，美国大多数的清真牛肉并没有达到我的信仰所要求的标准。我知道的越多这种不道德的行为，我就越觉得被冒犯，尤其是和我有共同宗教背景的商家正是那些利用我们教义来行骗的。所以，在这样强烈的情绪感染下，尽管我对屠宰行业一无所知，于是，我和一些朋友一起开了一家肉店就这在纽约东村时尚区的中心地带（笑声）我们叫它“诚实一刀”，我们通过贩卖有机、人道养殖的肉重新定义了清真一词，并且让工薪阶级也能买得到，买得起。在美国真的没人这么做。最让人难以置信的是我们百分之九十的顾客根本不是穆斯林。他们中的大多数很多人都是第一次接触伊斯兰教而且是这样的近距离接触。
en:For those that don&#39;t know,halal is a term used for meatthat is raised and slaughtered humanelyfollowing very strict Islamic guidelines.Unfortunately, the majorityof halal meat in Americadoesn&#39;t rise to the standardthat my faith calls for.The more I learnedabout these unethical practices,the more violated I felt,particularly because businessesfrom my own communitywere the ones taking advantageof my orthodoxy.So, with emotions running high,and absolutely no experience in butchery,some friends and I opened a meat storein the heart of theEast Village fashion district.(Laughter)We call it Honest Chops,and we&#39;re reclaiming halal by sourcingorganic, humanely raised animals,and by making it accessible and affordableto working-class families.There&#39;s really nothing like it in America.The unbelievable part is actuallythat 90 percent of our in-store customersare not even Muslim.For many, it is their first time interacting with Islamon such an intimate level.
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:所以所有这些零碎的项目——（笑声）——都是因为我不能接受现况的关系。它们是对于商家和那些管理者的一种发自内心的回应那些力图将我的信仰和背景过分简单化的人们。唯一能战胜它们的方式就是不走寻常路。我们必须用一种别出心裁的方式来斗争。带着信任，带着魄力，带着那份爱我们必须毫无歉意的重燃我们的信仰，并体现在电影的每一帧，切肉的每一刀里，因为如果我们为了大众要求而粉饰了自己的故事，我们不仅会失败而且会被那些有钱有势的人战胜去炒作我们的故事。但是我们呼吁有新意的勇气并不是为了新奇和反叛，只是因为我们的社区确实独特而美丽。这驱动我们去寻求不妥协的认可和尊敬。谢谢。（掌声）
en:So all these disparate projects —(Laughter) —are the result of a restlessness.They are a visceral responseto the businesses and curatorswho work hard to oversimplifymy beliefs and my community,and the only way to beat their machineis to play by different rules.We must fight with an inventive approach.With the trust, with the access,with the love that only we can bring,we must unapologeticallyreclaim our beliefsin every moving image,in every cut of meat,because if we whitewash our storiesfor the sake of mass appeal,not only will we fail,but we will be trumped by thosewith more money and more resourcesto tell our stories.But the call for creative courageis not for novelty or relevance.It is simply because our communitiesare so damn unique and so damn beautiful.They demand us to find uncompromising waysto be acknowledged and respected.Thank you.(Applause)
