时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我马上会朗读的一些连环漫画。它们中的很多都选自我每月刊登在一本关于建筑设计杂志上的小故事。那本杂志叫《摩登都市》。
en:I&#39;m going to read a few strips.These are, most of these arefrom a monthly page I doin and architecture and design magazinecalled Metropolis.
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:第一个故事叫做《开关的小瑕疵》
en:And the first story is called&quot;The Faulty Switch.&quot;
时间： 0:29
zh-cn:又一个设计精良的新建筑被一个再平常不过的电灯开关的启动声给毁了。白天的时候一切都很美好，阳光洒满了你的房间。但当黄昏降临一切都变了。
en:Another beautifully designed new buildingruined by the sound of a common wall light switch.It&#39;s fine during the daywhen the main rooms are flooded with sunlight.But at duskeverything changes.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:建筑师愿意花很多时间为新的办公大楼设计这些抛光的铜制开关板然后让承包商在这些精致的开关板后装上79美分的开关
en:The architect spent hundreds of hoursdesigning the burnished brass switchplatesfor his new office tower.And then left it to a contractorto install these 79-cent switches behind them.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:我们本能地知道，当我们走进这间黑屋子时，该按哪里打开开关。接着，我们就自然而然地把那小小的按钮向上一摁但是，当房间溢满如傍晚阳光般昏暗的光线的时候那迎接我们的一声响却让人想起了一间希腊咖啡店后面那不甚整洁的男洗手间。（笑声）
en:We know instinctively where to reachwhen we enter a dark room.We automatically throw the little nub of plastic upward.But the sound we are greeted with,as the room is bathed in the simulated glowof late-afternoon light,recalls to minda dirty men&#39;s roomin the rear of a Greek coffee shop.(Laughter)
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:这声响让我们对任何一间房的印象都那样先入为主，改都改不了。但是这我们称之为“咯嗒”的声响到底从何而来呢？它仅仅是一个粗糙机械制作的副产品？或者对我们抒发不满的一种声音的一半所进行的模仿？我们不满的时候经常用它在印欧语系中可找不到词源。
en:This sound colors our first impression of any room;it can&#39;t be helped.But where does this sound,commonly described as a click, come from?Is it simply the byproduct of acrude mechanical action?Or is it an imitationof one half the set of sounds we maketo express disappointment?The often dental consonantof no Indo-European language.
时间： 2:03
zh-cn:还是，那其实是蟑螂大脑中触突闪现火花那一刹那所产生的声响的放大？在二十世纪五十年代，科学家们曾尽力用汞制的开关和静音的按钮来消除这声响。
en:Or is it the amplified soundof a synapse firingin the brain of a cockroach?In the 1950s they tried their bestto muffle this soundwith mercury switchesand silent knob controls.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:但在今天开来，这些改进倒显得不地道这“咯嗒”声 其实是现代社会胜利的号角。让我们的生活向前迈进，宣告我们向每一个无光的暗房进军
en:But today these improvementsseem somehow inauthentic.The click is the moderntriumphal clarionproceeding us through life,announcing our entry into every lightless room.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:而我们把墙上开关关上的那一声响内涵就完全不同了它蕴含着深深地抑郁声调。孩子们不喜欢它。所以总爱让房间亮着。大人们却能聊以慰藉。
en:The sound made flicking a wall switch offis of a completely different nature.It has a deep melancholy ring.Children don&#39;t like it.It&#39;s why they leave lights on around the house. (Laughter)Adults find it comforting.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:但把墙上的开关接通电源不是很容易的事儿吗？这样就能够启动蒸汽船静默的汽笛？或唤醒公鸡清晨的报晓？还是爆破远方的一声惊雷？
en:But wouldn&#39;t it be an easy matterto wire a wall switchso that it triggers the muted horn of a steam ship?Or the recorded crowing of a rooster?Or the distant peel of thunder?
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:爱迪生也是在尝试过成千上万不同的物质之后才找到了真正适合做灯丝的物质，从而完成了他的电灯发明。为什么我们要如此迅速地屈就于那开关不完美的“咯嗒”声响呢？这个故事讲完了。（掌声）
en:Thomas Edison went throughthousands of unlikely substancesbefore he came upon the right onefor the filament of his electric light bulb.Why have we settled so quicklyfor the sound of its switch?That&#39;s the end of that.(Applause)
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:下一个故事叫作《纳税人的荣耀》。
en:The next story is called&quot;In Praise of the Taxpayer.&quot;
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:这个城市里，很多受人尊崇的纳税人又逃过了一次拆旧楼建新的商业大楼浪潮的劫难。他们为此庆祝。
en:That so many of the city&#39;s most venerable taxpayershave survived yet another commercial building boom,is cause for celebration.
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:设计这些一两层的建筑也只期望它们获得的收入能付得起土地租金就行了，并不把它们当做这长久的建筑。然而由于种种原因这些低层建筑常常困扰开发商让他们不知道该如何把这些零星的点组合成一块适合高层建筑的地皮。
en:These one or two story structures,designed to yield only enough incometo cover the taxes on the landon which they stand,were not meant to be permanent buildings.Yet for one reason or anotherthey have confounded the efforts of developersto be combined into lotssuitable for high-rise construction.
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:虽然不能说这些小楼房有什么建筑设计的美感但是，在它们这短暂存在的这段时间里，的确是钢筋水泥高楼林立的城市中一道亮丽的风景线，尽管最终要被取代。最突出的例子就是拐角处的小楼盘它们是被迅猛发展的高楼包围着的一片惬意的栖息地。这些小楼房为这高密度的水泥森林提供缕缕阳光和清新空气它们在和时间赛跑。
en:Although they make no claim to architectural beauty,they are, in their perfect temporariness,a delightful alternativeto the large-scale structuresthat might someday take their place.The most perfect examplesoccupy corner lots.They offer a pleasant respitefrom the high-density development around them.A break of light and air,an architectural biding of time.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:这些小楼房就这样被淹没在形形色色的商标之中，以至于，要把它们的应纳税款和那些附近的特别设计的大楼房区分开来还得花些时间。这是栋上世纪的小型商业建筑。他们的上面几层已经被查封了。但是一楼还营业着，并且缴着税这仅存的没有被商标遮盖的建筑一般都被包裹在有特色的阴暗铝灰条纹的铝制外壁板之中。比如三明治快餐小店，卖劣质影碟的小贩，卖西洋镜和领带的小买卖。
en:So buried in signageare these structures,that it often takes a momentto distinguish the modernspecially constructed taxpayerfrom its neighbor:the small commercial buildingfrom an earlier century,whose upper floors have been sealed,and whose groundfloor spacenow functions as a taxpayer.The few surfaces not covered by signsare often clad in a distinctive, darkgreen-gray, striated aluminum siding.Take-out sandwich shops,film processing drop-offs,peep-shows and necktie stores.
时间： 5:42
zh-cn:现在这些临时的建筑在一些地方仍然屹立不倒，展现着人们生活另一种美好的时光。这些暂住“居民”也是现代工业化中的胜利者。它们也是对建楼欲望的一种升华。还向人们证明了，不是每一个建筑都是一成不变、无法更改的。这个故事也讲完了。（笑声）
en:Now these provisional structures have,in some cases,remained standingfor the better part of a human lifetime.The temporary buildingis a triumph of modern industrial organization,a healthy sublimationof the urge to build,and proof that not everyarchitectural ideaneed be set in stone.That&#39;s the end.(Laughter)
时间： 6:16
zh-cn:下一个故事叫做：《在人类的膝盖上》对于古代埃及人来说膝盖是一个平台，用来放置死去的人生前尘世的财产。这个平台的长度就是从脚到膝盖上。
en:And the next story is called, &quot;On the Human Lap.&quot;For the ancient Egyptiansthe lap was a platformupon which to placethe earthly possessions of the dead —30 cubits from foot to knee.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:直到14世纪一位意大利画家第一次把这种膝盖上的平台视为古希腊人的神庙，只不过这座神庙是用肉体和衣服布置起来的。在之后的200年里，我们看到婴儿基督在圣母的膝盖上，从坐姿变成站姿。然后又回到坐姿。每一个孩子都是如此，跨立在一条或两条腿上或者倾斜地坐着，又或者倚着上身。
en:It was not until the 14th centurythat an Italian painterrecognized the lapas a Grecian temple,upholstered in flesh and cloth.Over the next 200 yearswe see the infant Christgo from a sitting to a standing positionon the Virgin&#39;s lap,and then back again.Every child recapitulates this ascension,straddling one or both legs,sitting sideways,or leaning against the body.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:从这个到现代的口技者的木偶，不是一段简短的历史。今天早上你上学又迟到了。口技者必须首先让我们相信，在他膝盖上坐着的是一个小男孩儿。然后自然而然的带出台词。你为自己有什么想要说的吗，吉米？
en:From there, to the modern ventriloquist&#39;s dummy,is but a brief moment in history.You were late for school again this morning.The ventriloquist must first make us believethat a small boy is sitting on his lap.The illusion of speech follows incidentally.What have you got to say for yourself, Jimmy?
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:作为成年人，我们羡慕那膝盖因为我们怀旧。我们的记忆在慢慢消退，有关那个短暂的神庙的记忆，那座在每一个坐下的成年人膝上立起的神庙。拥挤的公交车上，总有可以坐上去的膝盖。孩子和青春期的少女们能最敏锐的察觉到建筑结构的美。他们能明白建筑结构的整体性—我指的是父辈的膝盖，相对于你那神经质的外甥女和她的高跟鞋之间摇摇晃晃的关系来说。
en:As adults we admire the lapfrom a nostalgic distance.We have fading memoriesof that provisional temple,erected each time an adult sat down.On a crowded bus there was always a lap to sit on.It is children and teenage girlswho are most keenly awareof its architectural beauty.They understand the structural integrityof a deep avuncular lap,as compared to the shaky arrangementof a neurotic niece in high heels.
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:膝盖和它的拥有者之间的关系直接而亲密。我想象了一幢36层高，有450个房间的住宅大楼用来检验建筑师的心理健康，在还没有给他一大笔佣金之前。洗手间和厨房当然是没有窗户的。膝盖上的奢侈生活只是一个童年的构想，我们在寻觅的过程中总是无功而返，就像成年人雇佣人的时候一样。故事讲完了。（笑声）
en:The relationship between the lap and its owneris direct and intimate.I envision a 36-story,450-unit residential high-rise —a reason to consider the mental healthof any architect before grantingan important commission.The bathrooms and kitchens will,of course, have no windows.The lap of luxuryis an architectural construct of childhood,which we seek, in vain,as adults, to employ.That&#39;s the end.(Laughter)
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:下一个故事叫做《哈弗皮斯的收藏》。这是一个难以描述的仓库，这会儿是你能看见它，在Prykushko高速公路向北的车道上，被用作一个临时的休息所，为了哈弗皮斯(Haverpiece)的收藏而设——欧洲水果干。
en:The next story is called &quot;The Haverpiece Collection&quot;A nondescript warehouse,visible for a momentfrom the northbound lanes of the Prykushko Expressway,serves as the temporary resting placefor the Haverpiece collectionof European dried fruit.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:那些樱桃干表面深深的卷曲；以及巨大枣子表面给人不祥预感的光泽。
en:The profound convolutionson the surface of a dried cherry.The foreboding sheen of an extra-large date.
时间： 9:35
zh-cn:还记得吗，当你还是个孩子的时候，游荡在那些暗暗的木屋美术馆店面？那里的所有东西都展示在有着难看标签的蟑螂罐里
en:Do you remember wandering as a childthrough those dark woodenstorefront galleries?Where everything was displayedin poorly labeled roach-proof bins.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:梨子干有着生殖器一样的形状。杏瓣儿就像智天使的耳朵。
en:Pears dried in the formof genital organs.Apricot halveslike the ears of cherubim.
时间： 9:58
zh-cn:1962年，未出售的存货被莫里斯.哈弗皮斯所购买他是一个富有的瓶装青梅汁制造商，这些存货经过整理组成了核心的收藏。作为一种艺术形式，这个收藏被放在静物写生和探测之间。
en:In 1962 the unsold stockwas purchased by Maurice Haverpiece,a wealthy prune juice bottler,and consolidated to form the core collection.As an art form it lies somewhere betweenstill-life painting and plumbing.
时间：10:20
zh-cn:直到他1967年去世，这些藏品的四分之一已经作为拼盘向高档酒店抛售一空。（笑声）信任酒店的顾客早饭吃的是21世纪的土耳其无花果。（笑声）
en:Upon his death in 1967,a quarter of the items were sold off for compoteto a high-class hotel restaurant.(Laughter)Unsuspecting guests were servedstewed turn-of-the-centuryTurkish figs for breakfast.(Laughter)
时间：10:41
zh-cn:剩余部分的收藏一直留在了这里，在筹到足够资金见一个永久性博物馆和学习中心之前，它们都被存放在普通的棕色纸袋里。
en:The rest of the collection remains here,stored in plain brown paper bagsuntil funds can be raisedto build a permanent museumand study center.
时间：10:55
zh-cn:一只为沙皇女儿制作的杏仁皮的鞋子。
en:A shoe made of apricot leatherfor the daughter of a czar.
时间：11:01
zh-cn:最后一个故事讲完了。谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:That&#39;s the end. Thank you.(Applause)
