时间： 0:11
zh-cn:&quot;Yo napot, pacak!&quot;, 想必在座一定有人知道在匈牙利语的意思是：“伙计们，怎么样！”匈牙利人讲的一口非欧洲大陆语系的奇特语种那么，如果说我们认知的多样性目前受威胁程度在这个星球上已堪比生物多样性一两个世纪之前几乎没有人可以想象会有何样的未来然而你又能听到&quot;Yo napot, pacak!&quot;我刚说在座各位必定有人知道，因为尽管说, 其实匈牙利并不是一个人口众多的民族据我所致,在我身体里不曾流有一滴匈牙利的血，但是在我生命里每个关键时刻，都有一位匈牙利朋友和导师在我身旁。连梦境都好似在匈牙利发生的一样。我能认出那是匈牙利的电影中会浮现的场景尤其是米洛斯·杨索的早期电影作品中的那些。
en:&quot;Jó napot, pacák&quot; Which,as somebody here must surely know,means &quot;What&#39;s up, guys?&quot; in Magyar,that peculiar non-Indo-Europeanlanguage spoken by Hungariansfor which, given the factthat cognitive diversity isat least as threatenedas biodiversity on this planet,few would have imagined muchof a future even a century or two ago.But there it is: &quot;Jó napot, pacák&quot;I said somebody here mustsurely know, becausedespite the fact that there aren&#39;tthat many Hungarians to begin with,and the further fact that, so faras I know, there&#39;s not a dropof Hungarian blood in my veins,at every critical juncture of my lifethere has been a Hungarian friendor mentor there beside me.I even have dreams that takeplace in landscapesI recognize as the landscapesof Hungarian films,especially the earlymovies of Miklos Jancso.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:怎样解释这种神奇的联系？或许是因为我的故乡，与匈牙利大小相似的南卡罗莱纳洲，它也曾经设想成为一个独立国家。顺着这种假定推测，我的家乡被入侵的军队焚为平地许多匈牙利的城镇乡村,在其漫长多舛的历史上，也曾遭受过外敌入侵，有着十分相似的历程也或是因在50年代的时候, 那时我还是一个十几岁的少年我的叔叔亨利, 曾强烈谴责了三K党并因此受到责难，有人在他的院子里焚烧十字架（三K党的仪式）甚至他的生命都受到了威胁。所以他送他的妻儿到马萨诸塞州寻求避难然后只身回到了南卡罗来纳州，去面对敌党的迫害那可谓是一桩十分匈牙利般的事迹任何能忆起1956年的故人都能证实当然了，有些时候匈牙利人也发明了他们自己类似三K党的组织
en:So, how do I explain thismysterious affinity?Maybe it&#39;s because my nativestate of South Carolina,which is not much smallerthan present-day Hungary,once imagined a future for itselfas an independent country.And as a consequence of that presumption,my hometown was burnedto the ground by an invading army,an experience that has befallenmany a Hungarian town and villagethroughout its long and troubled history.Or maybe it&#39;s because whenI was a teenager back in the &#39;50s,my uncle Henry — havingdenounced the Ku Klux Klanand been bombed for his troubleand had crosses burned in his yard,living under death threat — took his wifeand children to Massachusetts for safetyand went back to South Carolinato face down the Klan alone.That was a very Hungarian thing to do,as anyone will attest who remembers 1956.And of course, from timeto time Hungarianshave inventedtheir own equivalent of the Klan.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:很难解释发生在我生命里的这种与匈牙利民族的神奇联系，在经历了一系列对道德的复杂认识后，最终我归因于对人民的敬仰之情，伴随着挑衅和虚张声势，他们继承了内疚和挫折。这决不是大多美国人的典型思维形态但在所有匈牙利人中确实张显无遗所以，&quot;Yo napot, pacak!&quot;
en:Well, it seems to me that thisHungarian presence in my lifeis difficult to account for, but ultimatelyI ascribe it to an admirationfor people with a complex moral awareness,with a heritage of guilt and defeatmatched by defiance and bravado.It&#39;s not a typical mindsetfor most Americans,but it is perforce typicalof virtually all Hungarians.So, &quot;Jó napot, pacák!&quot;
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:大约在国外待了15年之后，我再次回到南卡罗来纳州也就是在二十世纪六十年代末带着那个时代的轻率地优越感，一厢情愿的以为能“拯救”我的人民。却没有考虑到，他们还没有真正认为到自己需要解救。在我朝当时正在混乱状态的小王国南卡罗来纳州进发前，我曾在那里的葡萄园工作了25年，在一个附属于卫理公会的高等院校—伍夫德学院教书我对于伍夫德还一无所知，卫理公会就更不知道是什么了，但是我在伍夫德学院上的第一堂课就给了我莫大的信心，我不出意料的发现在众多的听众中有一位90多岁的匈牙利人。老人被一群中年欧洲女子围着，，好像是莱茵女儿的仆人那样守护他。
en:I went back to South Carolinaafter some 15 years amid the alien cornat the tail end of the 1960s,with the recklesscondescension of that erathinking I would save my people.Never mind the fact that they were slowto acknowledge they needed saving.I labored in that vineyardfor a quarter century beforemaking my way to a little kingdomof the just in upstate South Carolina,a Methodist-affiliated institutionof higher learning called Wofford College.I knew nothing about Woffordand even less about Methodism,but I was reassured on the first daythat I taught at Wofford Collegeto find, among the auditorsin my classroom,a 90-year-old Hungarian, surroundedby a bevy of middle-aged European womenwho seemed to functionas an entourage of Rhinemaidens.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:这个名叫桑德·特兹勒的老顽童，独身一人，妻子和孩子都去世了，孙儿远走他乡。从外表看，老人很像圣雄甘地——如果去掉腰带，穿上靴子的话。他于1903年，出生在曾经还是奥匈帝国的统治的一个省区，也就是现在南斯拉夫的所在地。还是个孩子的时候他就遭到流放，虽然他并不是犹太人—他的父母也没有什么非常特别的宗教信仰—由于特兹勒患有先天性马蹄内翻足（先天双足畸形）。这种情况在当时是要被收容在病院，并且要接受一系列的痛苦的手术治疗，治疗一直从1岁持续到11岁。他后来在布达佩斯上高中，学一些经商的课程，那个时候他挺聪明也挺谨慎的，毕业的时候他也取得了不错的好成绩。后来他开了一家纺织厂，也干的不错。他开了一家又一家的工厂。结了婚，生了两个儿子。他那些有本事的有地位的朋友都信誓旦旦地说他对当地经济的发展来说是很有价值的。
en:His name was Sandor Teszler.He was a puckish widowerwhose wife and children were deadand whose grandchildren lived far away.In appearance, he resembledMahatma Gandhi,minus the loincloth,plus orthopedic boots.He had been born in 1903 in the provincesof the old Austro-Hungarian Empire,in what later would become Yugoslavia.He was ostracized as a child,not because he was a Jew —his parents weren&#39;t veryreligious anyhow —but because he had been bornwith two club feet,a condition which, in those days,required institutionalizationand a succession of painful operationsbetween the ages of one and 11.He went to the commercial businesshigh school as a young manin Budapest, and therehe was as smart as he was modestand he enjoyed a considerable success.And after graduationwhen he went into textileengineering, the success continued.He built one plant after another.He married and had two sons. Hehad friends in high places whoassured him that he was of greatvalue to the economy.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:有一天，他已经把所有的指令都吩咐下去了，半夜却被他的一个工厂的保安叫醒，保安说，捉到了一个偷袜子的小偷——那个小偷正是工厂的职工。抓到他时，那个人正在停装货车子的月台上，在堆积如山的袜子堆里铲袜子。特兹勒用一种安慰的语气对小偷说，“你何必要偷袜子呢？要是你需要钱，你直接跟我说嘛。”那个保安，愤愤然的看着整件事的发展，问是否要叫来警察，特兹勒说，“完全不需要，因为他以后都不会再偷窃了。”
en:Once, as he had leftinstructions to have done,he was summoned in the middle of the nightby the night watchman at one of his plants.The night watchman had caughtan employee who was stealing socks —it was a hosiery mill, and he simplybacked a truck up to the loading dockand was shoveling in mountains of socks.Mr. Teszler went down to the plantand confronted the thief and said,&quot;But why do you steal from me? If youneed money you have only to ask.&quot;The night watchman, seeing how thingswere going and waxing indignant,said, &quot;Well, we&#39;re going to callthe police, aren&#39;t we?&quot;But Mr. Teszler answered, &quot;No,that will not be necessary.He will not steal from us again.&quot;
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:也许，有时他太过于亲信了，因为，德国纳粹进驻奥地利一段时间了他还留在奥地利不走，甚至当布达佩斯的一些人被拘留或者流放特兹勒早早地就在身边准备好了几支有剧毒的氰化物，以备他和家人不时之需。然后，真的有一天：他和他的家人都被捉了，他们被带到多瑙河岸的一个死亡之屋。在集中营就要解放之前，情况非常的惨不忍睹—那些被捉的人被活生生的打死，尸体直接丢到多瑙河里—进了死亡之屋的人没一个活着出来了。这时候故事发生了转折，这甚至在史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格导演的电影里你也不敢相信—监视酷刑的刽子手竟然是前面提到的那个偷袜子的人。酷刑真是惨不忍睹，特兹勒的一个儿子安德鲁看不下去了，抬头对父亲说，“该服药了。”那个就要从故事中消失的纳粹头头，扭过头来对特兹勒说，“千万不要！救兵马上到了！”然后继续施暴。
en:Well, maybe he was too trusting,because he stayed where he waslong after the Nazi Anschluss in Austriaand even after the arrestsand deportations began in Budapest.He took the simple precaution of havingcyanide capsules placed in locketsthat could be worn about the necksof himself and his family.And then one day, it happened:he and his family were arrestedand they were taken to a deathhouse on the Danube.In those early days of the FinalSolution, it was handcrafted brutality;people were beaten to deathand their bodies tossed into the river.But none who entered that deathhouse had ever come out alive.And in a twist you would not believein a Steven Spielberg film —the Gauleiter who was overseeing thisbrutal beating was the very same thiefwho had stolen socksfrom Mr. Teszler&#39;s hosiery mill.It was a brutal beating. Andmidway through that brutality,one of Mr. Teszler&#39;s sons,Andrew, looked up and said,&quot;Is it time to takethe capsule now, Papa?&quot;And the Gauleiter, who afterwardsvanishes from this story,leaned down and whisperedinto Mr. Teszler&#39;s ear,&quot;No, do not take the capsule.Help is on the way.&quot;And then resumed the beating.
时间： 6:10
zh-cn:不久，瑞士大使馆果然派来了人员把特兹勒从死神的手里拉了回来。他们被秘密地带到了安全的地方。他们被重新划分为南斯拉夫人，在战争期间，他们成功的和追捕者进行周旋，逃过了火灾和爆炸的种种劫难，在战争即将结束的时候，被苏军捉住了。估计是因为特兹勒在瑞士的银行有较大一笔存款，因为他和家人都逃到英国去了，然后到了长岛，最后去了美国南部纺织业的中心，非常巧合的是，他到的就是南卡罗来纳州的斯帕坦堡：伍夫德学院的所在地。在这儿，特兹勒一切重头开始，并且又一次取得了巨大的成功，特别是他发明了一种叫做双面针织物的制作方法。
en:But help was on the way,and shortly afterwardsa car arrived from the Swiss Embassy.They were spirited to safety. Theywere reclassified as Yugoslav citizensand they managed to stayone step ahead of their pursuersfor the duration of the War,surviving burnings and bombingsand, at the end of the War,arrest by the Soviets.Probably, Mr. Teszler had gottensome money into Swiss bank accountsbecause he managed to takehis family first to Great Britain,then to Long Island and then to the centerof the textile industry in the American South.Which, as chance would have it,was Spartanburg, South Carolina,the location of Wofford College.And there, Mr. Teszler began all over againand once again achieved immense success,especially after he invented the processfor manufacturing a newfabric called double-knit.
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:然后 在20世纪50年代末，布朗诉教育委员会案的影响下，３K党又在南部复苏，特兹勒说：＂我已经听说了．＂然后他把他的高级助理叫到身边，问到，＂你说这里种族偏见最严重的是哪块地区？＂＂我不是很清楚，特兹勒先生，我猜是金斯山那块地方．＂＂很好，你去金斯山置购一些地，然后对外宣布说我们将要在那建一个大厂房．＂助理把事情办好后，没多久特兹勒先生就受到了金斯山白人市长的接见．你要知道在那个时候美国南部地区的纺织业里的种族歧视现象臭名远扬．白人市长对特兹勒先生说：＂特兹勒先生，我相信你一定需要雇佣很多的白人．＂特兹勒先生回答到：＂你把你们这最好的工人带过来，如果我觉得可以的话，我当然会用他们．＂特兹勒先生同时也接到了当地黑人社区领导的邀约，一个部长提到：＂特兹勒先生，我真希望您的新工厂可以雇佣一批黑人．＂他也答道：＂你把你们这最好的工人带过来，如果我觉得可以的话，我当然会用他们．＂非常巧合的是，白人，黑人两方实力相当．特兹勒先生最后选定的１６个人里，正好８个白人，８个黑人．
en:And then in the late 1950s, in the aftermathof Brown v. Board of Education,when the Klan was resurgentall over the South,Mr. Teszler said, &quot;I haveheard this talk before.&quot;And he called his topassistant to him and asked,&quot;Where would you say, in thisregion, racism is most virulent?&quot;&quot;Well, I don&#39;t rightly know, Mr. Teszler.I reckon that would be Kings Mountain.&quot;&quot;Good. Buy us some land in Kings Mountainand announce we are goingto build a major plant there.&quot;The man did as he was told,and shortly afterwards,Mr. Teszler received a visitfrom the white mayor of Kings Mountain.Now, you should know that at that time,the textile industry in the Southwas notoriously segregated.The white mayor visitedMr. Teszler and said,&quot;Mr. Teszler, I trust you’re goingto be hiring a lot of white workers.&quot;Mr. Teszler told him, &quot;You bring methe best workers that you can find,and if they are goodenough, I will hire them.&quot;He also received a visit from the leaderof the black community,a minister, who said, &quot;Mr. Teszler,I sure hope you&#39;re going tohire some black workersfor this new plant of yours.&quot;He got the same answer: &quot;You bringthe best workers that you can find,and if they are goodenough, I will hire them.&quot;As it happens, the black minister didhis job better than the white mayor,but that&#39;s neither here or there.Mr. Teszler hired 16 men:eight white, eight black.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:他们这批人将会是新厂的核心团队，未来的工头．他在金斯山附近一家荒废的仓库购置了一套大型设备．在接下来的两个月里，这１６个人要一起生活和工作，熟练掌握这套新流程．在大略参观了整个厂房后，特兹勒先生把他们叫到一起，问他们还有什么疑问．刚开始他们都吞吞吐吐，欲言又止的，最后终于有个白人站出来，＂我们仔细看了一下这里，睡觉的地方只有一个，吃饭的地方只有一个，卫生间只有一个，饮水的地方只有一个．这个工厂是要把我们弄在一起还是怎么样？＂特兹勒先生回答到，＂你们在这里拿到了普通工人双倍的工资，我们就是这样管理的．你们还有别的问题吗？＂＂我觉得没什么问题了．＂两个月后，当总厂开始运营的时候成百上千的工人，白人和黑人蜂拥而至参观工厂，他们看到这16个工头肩并肩站着，既有黑人又有白人。他们参观了工厂然后被问是否有任何疑问。意料之中，同样的问题再次被提到：“这个工厂是要把我们弄在一起还是怎么样？”一个白人工头站出来说，“你们在这里拿到了普通工人双倍的工资，我们就是这样管理的。你还有什么异议吗？”
en:They were to be his seedgroup, his future foremen.He had installed the heavyequipment for his new processin an abandoned storein the vicinity of Kings Mountain,and for two months these 16 menwould live and work together,mastering the new process.He gathered them togetherafter an initial tour of that facilityand he asked if there were any questions.There was hemming and hawingand shuffling of feet,and then one of the white workersstepped forward and said,&quot;Well, yeah. We’ve looked at this placeand there&#39;s only one place to sleep,there&#39;s only one place to eat,there&#39;s only one bathroom,there&#39;s only one water fountain. Is thisplant going to be integrated or what?&quot;Mr. Teszler said, &quot;You are being paid twice the wagesof any other textile workers in this regionand this is how we do business.Do you have any other questions?&quot;&quot;No, I reckon I don&#39;t.&quot;And two months later whenthe main plant openedand hundreds of newworkers, white and black,poured in to see the facilityfor the first time,they were met by the 16 foremen, whiteand black, standing shoulder to shoulder.They toured the facility and were askedif there were any questions, andinevitably the same question arose:&quot;Is this plant integrated or what?&quot;And one of the white foremenstepped forward and said,&quot;You are being paid twicethe wages of any other workersin this industry in this regionand this is how we do business.Do you have any other questions?&quot;
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:再没有人作声了。没过多久，特兹勒先生带动当地纺织产业都取消了种族隔离的管理。他带来的效应堪比圣雄甘地，兼具律师的机智和圣贤的理想主义。特兹勒先生在八十多岁的时候从纺织业退下来，到伍夫德学院学习—每个学期都回去听课。他总是和蔼可亲，很受欢迎，并被大家亲切地称为Opi—匈牙利语里是祖父的意思。我到伍夫德的时候，学院的图书馆就是以特兹勒先生的名字命名的，到1993年我再次回到伍夫德，全校教师决定授予特兹勒先生教授职称。部分是因为他已经学完了学校所有的课程，但主要还是因为他拥有超群的智慧。给我极大鼓励和震撼的是他对于这个南卡罗来纳州偏僻地区在欧洲中部大屠杀中幸存下来的卫理公会学院的引导精神。他同时也是一个非常幽默的人。在一次跨学科的课堂上，我正播放英格玛·伯格曼“第七封印”的电影片断。骑士布洛克从十字军东征回到故土，多礁的瑞典海岸。在途中他遇到了死神的化身。特兹勒先生和他的同学坐在暗处。当死神的黑色斗篷就要包围骑士时听到特兹勒先生颤抖的声音：“哦 哦 情况不妙。”
en:And there were none. In one fell swoop,Mr. Teszler had integrated the textileindustry in that part of the South.It was an achievementworthy of Mahatma Gandhi,conducted with the shrewdness of a lawyerand the idealism of a saint.In his eighties, Mr. Teszler, havingretired from the textile industry,adopted Wofford College,auditing courses every semester,and because he had a tendencyto kiss anything that moved,becoming affectionately known as &quot;Opi&quot;— which is Magyar for grandfather —by all and sundry. Before I gotthere, the library of the collegehad been named for Mr. Teszler,and after I arrived in 1993,the faculty decided to honor itself by namingMr. Teszler Professor of the College —partly because at that pointhe had already takenall of the courses in the catalog,but mainly becausehe was so conspicuouslywiser than any one of us.To me, it was immensely reassuringthat the presiding spiritof this little Methodist collegein upstate South Carolinawas a Holocaust survivorfrom Central Europe.Wise he was, indeed, but he alsohad a wonderful sense of humor.And once for an interdisciplinary class,I was screening the opening segmentof Ingmar Bergman&#39;s &quot;The Seventh Seal.&quot;As the medieval knight Antonius Blockreturns from the wild goose chaseof the Crusades and arriveson the rocky shore of Sweden,only to find the specterof death waiting for him,Mr. Teszler sat in the darkwith his fellow students. Andas death opened his cloakto embrace the knightin a ghastly embrace, I heardMr. Teszler&#39;s tremulous voice:&quot;Uh oh,&quot; he said, &quot;This doesn&#39;tlook so good.&quot; (Laughter)
时间：11:29
zh-cn:特兹勒先生最钟爱的还是音乐，尤其是歌剧，我第一次拜访他家，他就请我挑选要播放的音乐。没有选《乡村骑士间奏曲〉而是选了巴托克的《 蓝胡子城堡》。我和他都喜欢巴托克的音乐。他几乎收藏了巴托克所有的专辑。就是在他家我第一次听到巴托克的第三钢琴协奏曲，并且从特兹勒先生得知它是巴托克在生命的最后几年在北卡罗来纳州的阿什维尔附近谱写的。当时他患了白血病，得知自己的时日不多，他谱写这首曲子献给他的妻子蒂塔，她自己也是一名钢琴演奏家。在柔缓的第二乐章&quot;adagio religioso&quot; 中他在曲子中融入了窗外小鸟的叫声，那时他知道这将使他人生最后的一个春天了。他想象着妻子没有他的未来的生活。而这首曲子将是他对妻子的最后一次告白—他死后曲子才弹奏出来—通过她传给了世界。曲子仿佛在诉说着，“情况没你想的那么糟，世界多么美好的。每次你听到这首曲子的时候，我都在你的身边。”
en:But it was music that was his greatestpassion, especially opera.And on the first occasionthat I visited his house, he gave mehonor of deciding what pieceof music we would listen to.And I delighted him by rejecting&quot;Cavalleria Rusticana&quot;in favor of BelaBartok&#39;s &quot;Bluebeard&#39;s Castle.&quot;I love Bartok&#39;s music, as did Mr. Teszler,and he had virtually every recordingof Bartok&#39;s music ever issued.And it was at his housethat I heard for the first timeBartok&#39;s Third PianoConcerto and learned fromMr. Teszler that it had been composedin nearby Asheville, North Carolinain the last year of the composer&#39;s life.He was dying of leukemia and he knew it,and he dedicated thisconcerto to his wife,Dita, who was herself a concert pianist.And into the slow, second movement,marked &quot;adagio religioso,&quot;he incorporated the soundsof birdsong that he heardoutside his window in what he knewwould be his last spring;he was imagining a future for herin which he would play no part.And clearly this compositionis his final statement to her —it was first performed after his death —and through her to the world.And just as clearly, it is saying,&quot;It&#39;s okay. It was all so beautiful.Whenever you hear this, I will be there.&quot;
时间：12:56
zh-cn:特兹勒先生死后我才得知巴托克·贝拉在纽约，哈茨戴尔镇的墓碑是他捐助的。&quot;Yo napot, Bela!&quot;在特兹勒先生97年生命结束之前，他听说我认为人的本性的邪恶的。在一次演讲中，我把历史描绘成人类受难和残暴的然后特兹勒先生用温和却又责备的语气对我说，“你知道吗 ，博士，人的本性都是善良的。”从此以后，我常不时的暗示自己，如果这个人有什么理由支持他的结论的话，除非他说我的结论是错的，否则我是不会改变的。现在他过世了，而我就只能坚持我的言论了。&quot;Yo napot, Sandor!&quot;
en:It was only after Mr. Teszler&#39;s deaththat I learnedthat the marker on the grave of BelaBartok in Hartsdale, New Yorkwas paid for by Sandor Teszler.&quot;Jó napot, Bela!&quot;Not long before Mr. Teszler’sown death at the age of 97,he heard me hold forth on human iniquity.I delivered a lecturein which I described historyas, on the whole, a tidal waveof human suffering and brutality,and Mr. Teszler came up to me afterwardswith gentle reproach and said,&quot;You know, Doctor, human beingsare fundamentally good.&quot;And I made a vowto myself, then and there,that if this man who had suchcause to think otherwisehad reached that conclusion,I would not presume to differuntil he released me from my vow.And now he&#39;s dead, soI&#39;m stuck with my vow.&quot;Jó napot, Sandor!&quot;
时间：13:56
zh-cn:我原以为我与匈牙利导师的神奇缘分就此结束了，几乎在同时我遇到了弗朗西斯.罗宾斯克，一位匈牙利医生—一位北卡罗来纳州夏洛特的心脏外科医生，他已将近80高龄—胸外科手术领域的带头人，我见到他时他正在房子后面的车库里修修补补，发明了很多装置，一些用于驱动上的标准件。在布达佩斯的时候还只是个实习生，专门收集16到17世纪荷兰的艺术品和匈牙利的油画，他到美国后开始收集西班牙殖民时期的艺术品，俄国的硬币，马雅的陶瓷。他一共写了7本书，其中有6本都是有关玛雅陶瓷的。是他破译了玛雅人的法规，使得学者们能够将玛雅制陶术中的象形文字和玛雅人的手写文字联系在一起。
en:I thought my skein of Hungarianmentors had come to an end,but almost immediately I met FrancisRobicsek, a Hungarian doctor —actually a heart surgeon in Charlotte, NorthCarolina, then in his late seventies —who had been a pioneerin open-heart surgery,and, tinkering awayin his garage behind his house,had invented many of the devicesthat are standard parts of those procedures.He&#39;s also a prodigious art collector,beginning as an intern in Budapestby collecting 16th- and 17th-centuryDutch art and Hungarian painting,and when he came to this countrymoving on to Spanish colonial art,Russian icons and finally Mayan ceramics.He&#39;s the author of seven books,six of them on Mayan ceramics.It was he who broke the Mayancodex, enabling scholars to relatethe pictographs on Mayan ceramicsto the hieroglyphs of the Mayan script.
时间：14:50
zh-cn:我第一次拜访他家的时候，他就先带领我参观了成百上千堪称博物馆级别的艺术品，我们在一扇门前停住了，罗宾斯克先生无不骄傲地说，“现在我们来看看压轴之作吧。”他把门打开，在我们面前的是一个没有窗户的20*20英尺大小的房子，高到天花板的陈列柜里塞满了玛雅陶瓷。当时我对这方面还一无所知，但为了讨他欢心我还是说，“先生，这简直太神奇了！”“是的，”他继续说道“卢浮宫的专家也这么说呢，他们一直缠着我直到我送了他们一件，当然我不会送很好的。”
en:On the occasion of my firstvisit, we toured his houseand we saw hundredsof works of museum quality,and then we paused in front of a closeddoor and Dr. Robicsek said,with obvious pride, &quot;Nowfor the piece De resistance.&quot;And he opened the doorand we walked into awindowless 20-by-20-foot roomwith shelves from floor to ceiling, andcrammed on every shelfhis collection of Mayan ceramics.Now, I know absolutely nothingabout Mayan ceramics,but I wanted to be as ingratiatingas possible so I said,&quot;But Dr. Robicsek, thisis absolutely dazzling.&quot;&quot;Yes,&quot; he said. &quot;Thatis what the Louvre said.They would not leave me aloneuntil I let them have a piece,but it was not a good one.&quot; (Laughter)
时间：15:33
zh-cn:我想我应该邀请罗宾斯克先生到伍夫德学院做一个演讲，有关—什么呢？—列奥纳多·达芬奇。甚至，我想把他介绍给我最要好得朋友，十来岁的时候就在耶鲁大学主攻法国历史专业，89岁时还是长官世界上最大的私人纺织企业的巨头。他就是罗杰 麦利肯。麦利肯先生和罗宾斯克先生都同意见面了。罗宾斯克先生的精彩的演讲结束后，我们三人就在校长办公室汇合了。我们坐下来开始用餐的时候，我才意识到我在做一个多么冒险的事情。因为我把两大世界巨头带到一起，好比把哥吉拉和摩斯拉都带到东京。如果他们合不来的话，我必死无疑。
en:Well, it occurred to methat I should invite Dr. Robicsekto lecture at WoffordCollege on — what else?— Leonardo da Vinci. And further,I should invite him to meetmy oldest trustee, who had majoredin French history at Yalesome 70-odd years before and,at 89, still ruled the world&#39;slargest privately owned textileempire with an iron hand.His name is Roger Milliken.And Mr. Milliken agreed,and Dr. Robicsek agreed.And Dr. Robicsek visitedand delivered the lectureand it was a dazzling success.And afterwards we convenedat the President&#39;s House with Dr. Robicsekon one hand, Mr. Milliken on the other.And it was only at that moment,as we were sitting down to dinner,that I recognized the enormityof the risk I had created,because to bring these two titans,these two masters of the universetogether — it was like introducing Mothrato Godzilla over the skyline of Tokyo.If they didn&#39;t like each other,we could all get trampled to death.
时间：16:31
zh-cn:但是他们没有，他们互相喜欢。他们都相处地非常好，—直到快要用餐时，他们激烈的争论起来。而他们争论的内容是：第二部哈利波特电影有没有第一部好看。麦利肯先生说没有，罗宾斯克先生不同意。我还在纳闷这两个世界巨头在空闲时间就是看哈利波特系列电影的吗，这时，麦利肯先生胜券在握的说道，“你觉得第二部不错，是因为你没有看原著吧。”但很快恢复了斗智，往前倾了倾说，“我得确没读过，但是我敢打赌，你是和孙子一起去看电影的吧。”“对，是的。”麦利肯先生勉强承认道。“哈！”罗宾斯克先生得意地说“我可是一个人去看的。”
en:But they did, they did like each other.They got along famouslyuntil the very end of the meal,and then they got into a furious argument.And what they were arguing about was this:whether the second Harry Potter moviewas as good as the first. (Laughter)Mr. Milliken said it was not.Dr. Robicsek disagreed.I was still trying to takein the notion that these titans,these masters of the universe, in their sparetime watch Harry Potter movies,when Mr. Milliken thoughthe would win the argument by saying,&quot;You just think it&#39;s so goodbecause you didn&#39;t read the book.&quot;And Dr. Robicsek reeled back in his chair,but quickly gathered his wits,leaned forward and said, &quot;Well,that is true, but I&#39;ll bet you wentto the movie with a grandchild.&quot; &quot;Well,yes, I did,&quot; conceded Mr. Milliken.&quot;Aha!&quot; said Dr. Robicsek. &quot;I went to the movieall by myself.&quot; (Laughter) (Applause)
时间：17:21
zh-cn:真相被揭露后我才意识到，他们揭露的其实是他们取得非凡成就的秘密。那就是他们永不满足的好奇心、难以揭制的求知欲—对任何事物，无论要付出什么，世界末日钟的看守者大概在93年前就人们不可能预知2100年的世界是个什么样子。圣雄甘地说，“要活就要像明天你就会死去一般活着，”“要学习就要好像你会永远活着一般学习。”这就是我的热情之所在。一种对知识和经验的坚定的无畏的渴望，无论多么滑稽，无论多么专业，无论看上去多么有煽动性。这决定了匈牙利人想象中的未来。罗宾斯克先生，特兹勒先生，巴托克先生和我都是这样的。我想在座的各位都是这样的。
en:And I realized, in thismoment of revelation,that what these two men wererevealing was the secretof their extraordinary success,each in his own right.And it lay preciselyin that insatiable curiosity,that irrepressible desire to know,no matter what the subject,no matter what the cost,even at a time when the keepersof the Doomsday Clockare willing to bet even moneythat the human race won&#39;t be aroundto imagine anything in the year2100, a scant 93 years from now.&quot;Live each day as if itis your last,&quot; said Mahatma Gandhi.&quot;Learn as if you&#39;ll live forever.&quot;This is what I&#39;m passionate about.It is precisely this.It is this inextinguishable, undauntedappetite for learning and experience,no matter how risible,no matter how esoteric,no matter how seditious it might seem.This defines the imagined futuresof our fellow Hungarians —Robicsek, Teszler and Bartok— as it does my own.As it does, I suspect,that of everybody here.
时间：18:34
zh-cn:我只想说&quot;Ez a mi munkank; es nem is keves.&quot;这就是我们的任务，虽然非常艰巨。&quot;Ez a mi munkank; es nem is keves.&quot; Yo napot, pacak!
en:To which I need only add, &quot;Eza mi munkank; es nem is keves.&quot;This is our task; we know it will be hard.&quot;Ez a mi munkank; es nem is keves.Jó napot, pacák!&quot; (Applause)
