时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我了解到了很多关于乘气球的信息，特别是在我和布赖恩 琼斯（Brian Jones）乘热汽球环球飞行尾期的时候。这张照片上我们可以看到，由于夜晚的水分， 所以整个窗口都被冻结了。而从被冻结窗口的另一面望去，却是一番完美的日出景像。有人认为在冰的另一边存在着一种未知的，一种非显而易见的，一种什么都看不到的东西，这些都是对于那些害怕穿过冰的人来说的。
en:Well, I learned a lot of things about ballooning,especially at the end of these balloon flightsaround the world I did with Brian Jones.When I took this picture,the window was frozen because of the moisture of the night.And on the other side there was a rising sun.So, you see that on the other side of iceyou have the unknown,you have the non-obvious,you have the non-seen,for the people who don&#39;t dareto go through the ice.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:有很多人他们宁愿在冰寒中坚熬都不愿尝试穿过冰层去看看另一边是什么景象。我认为这是我们社会现存的主要问题之一。我们认识到，也许不是著名的TED观众，但很多其他人认为未知，怀疑，疑问是危险的。我们必须抵制变化。我们必须控制住一切。那么，未知是生活中的一部分。
en:There are so many peoplewho prefer to suffer in the ice they knowinstead of taking the risk of going through the iceto see what there is on the other side.And I think that&#39;s one of the main problems of our society.We learn, maybe not the famous TED audience,but so many other people learn,that the unknown, the doubts,the question marks are dangerous.And we have to resist to the changes.We have to keep everything under control.Well, the unknown is part of life.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:在这个意义上说，乘热气球好比一个美丽的隐喻。因为在热气球上，就像在生活中一样，在无法预料的方向里，我们进展的很顺利。我们要驶向某个方向，但是风却把我们推向了另一个方向， 就像在生活中一样。只要我们在经验范围内斗争，与生存,与风，与将在我们身上发生的事情作斗争，生命是一场噩梦。
en:And in that sense, ballooning is a beautiful metaphor.Because in the balloon, like in life,we go very well in unforeseen directions.We want to go in a direction,but the winds push us in another direction, like in life.And as long as we fight horizontally,against life, against the winds,against what&#39;s happening to us,life is a nightmare.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:我们如何驾驶热气球？通过了解得知大气层是由若干层次组成，不同层风向都各不相同。那么，我们明白，如果我们要在生活中，或是在乘热气球中，改变我们的轨道，我们必须改变高度。在生活中改变高度，这意味着提高到另一个心理，哲学，精神层面上。但是，我们如何做到这一点？
en:How do we steer a balloon?By understanding that the atmosphereis made out of several different layers of windwhich all have different direction.So, then, we understand that if we want to change our trajectory,in life, or in the balloon,we have to change altitude.Changing altitude, in life,that means raising to another psychological, philosophical,spiritual level.But how do we do that?
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:在乘热汽球或是在生活中，我们如何改变其 高度？我们如何去从隐喻中得到一些可以实用的东西？那么，对乘热气球来说是很容易的，我们有压舱物。当我们放弃我们的压舱物后，我们就会浮升起来。如沙，水，或我们不需要的所有装备，我认为在生活中应该是完全一样的。
en:In ballooning, or in life,how do we change altitude?How do we go from the metaphorto something more practical that we can reallyuse every day?Well, in a balloon it&#39;s easy, we have ballast.And when we drop the ballast overboard we climb.Sand, water, all the equipment we don&#39;t need anymore.And I think in life it should be exactly like this.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:你知道，当人们谈论首创精神，很多时候，他们认为，先驱者是那些有新想法的人。其实并不是这样的。先驱者并不只是那些有新想法的人因为有新的想法是很容易的。我们只需要静静的闭一分钟眼睛思考一下，当我们再睁开的时候，会带来很多新的主意。不，先驱者是允许自己摆脱那些压舱物的人。习惯，无疑地，信念，感叹，范例，教条。当我们能够做到这一点时，那有会发生什么？人生已不再只是在一种程度上，向一个方向运转。不。人生是将在不同的方向中在三种程度上探索所有可能走的路线。
en:You know, when people speak about pioneering spirit,very often they believe that pioneersare the ones who have new ideas.It&#39;s not true.The pioneers are not the ones who have new ideas,because new ideas are so easy to have.We just close our eyes for a minute we all come backwith a lot of new ideas.No, the pioneer is the one whoallows himself to throw overboard a lot of ballast.Habits, certainties,convictions, exclamation marks,paradigms, dogmas.And when we are able to do that,what happens?Life is not anymorejust one line going in one directionin one dimension. No.Life is going to be made out of all the possible linesthat go in all the possible directionsin three dimensions.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:开拓精神将允许我们探索这条垂直轴。当然并不只是就像在热气球里的空气，而是在现实生活本身里。探索这条垂直轴意味着探索尝试各种不同的方法所有不同方式的行为，所有不同方式的思考，在我们找到一个我们愿意做的方式之前。这是非常实用的。这可以是在政治上。这可以是在精神上。这可以在环境上，在金融，教育子女上。
en:And pioneering spirit will be each time we allow ourselvesto explore this vertical axis.Of course not just like the atmosphere in the balloon,but in life itself.Explore this vertical axis, that meansexplore all the different ways to do,all the different ways to behave, all the different ways to think,before we find the one that goes in the direction we wish.This is very practical.This can be in politics.This can be in spirituality.This can be in environment,in finance, in education of children.
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:我深信，人生是一项更伟大的冒险如果我们在政治上能做到没有与左翼和右翼战壕。因为我们会丢掉这些政治教条。我深信，我们可以更好的保护环境如果我们可以清除 — 放弃或摆脱原教旨主义，过去发生的绿色革命(伊朗）正是一个鲜明的事例。我们可以力争达到更高的精神境界如果我们可以摆脱宗教教条。放弃或摆脱，例如压舱物，来改变我们的方向。
en:I deeply believethat life is a much greater adventureif we manage to do politicswithout the trench between the left and the right wing.Because we will throw away these political dogmas.I deeply believe that we can make much more protection of the environmentif we get rid — if we throw overboardthis fundamentalism that some of the greens have showed in the past.And that we can aim for much higher spiritualityif we get rid of the religious dogmas.Throwing overboard, as ballast, to change our direction.
时间： 4:40
zh-cn:那么，这些是我一直以来的坚信。但其实我不得不乘着热气球环游世界以便获得邀请谈论它。（笑声）（鼓掌声）显然，并不容易知道要放弃哪一个压舱物，并采取什么一种高度。有些时候我们需要朋友，家人或精神科医生。那么，乘热气球时，我们需要气象员，一个计算每个风层风向，高度的人，以便为了帮助热气球驾驶者航行。但有时却会非常矛盾。
en:Well, these basically are things I believed in such a long time.But actually I had to go around the world in a balloonto be invited to talk about it.(Laughter)(Applause)It&#39;s clear that it&#39;s not easy to know which ballast to dropand which altitude to take. Sometime we needfriends, family members or a psychiatrist.Well, in balloons we need weather men,the one who calculate the direction of each layer of wind,at which altitude, in order to help the balloonist.But sometimes it&#39;s very paradoxical.
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:当布赖恩 琼斯和我环球飞行期间，气象员有一天要求我们飞的很低，而且要很慢。我们计算了一下，按照那种速度我们永远都不可能完成我们的环球飞行计划。于是，我们没有听从他的意见，我们飞得更高，而且提高了两倍的速度。
en:When Brian Jones and I were flying around the world,the weather man asked us, one day, to flyquite low, and very slow.And when we calculated we thought we&#39;re never going to make itaround the world at that speed.So, we disobeyed. We flew much higher, and double the speed.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:我如此自豪地发现了这种捷流我于是呼叫了我们的气象员，我告诉他，“嘿小子，你不觉得我们是在天上很擅长飞行的？我们比你预测的飞行速度快两倍。”他告诉我，“不要那样做。立即下降，以便放缓速度。”我开始争论。我说：“我不准备这样做。我们没有足够的天然气如果我们这么慢飞行的话。“他告诉我：“是的，但在你们左边目前有低压气层如果你们飞得太快，在几个小时后你们向左边飞去，你们的旅途将在北极上空结束。&quot;（笑声）然后他问我 —这是让我在我人生中永不会忘记的 —他只是问我：“你是一个优秀的飞行员。你想要怎样呢？你想用非常快的速度向一个错误的方向航行，还是以一个很慢的速度往正确的方向飞？（笑声）（鼓掌声）
en:And I was so proud to have found that jetstreamthat I called the weather man,and I told him, &quot;Hey, guy, don&#39;t you think we&#39;re good pilots up there?We fly twice the speed you predicted.&quot;And he told me, &quot;Don&#39;t do that. Go down immediatelyin order to slow down.&quot;And I started to argue. I said, &quot;I&#39;m not going to do that.We don&#39;t have enough gas to fly so slow.&quot;And he told me, &quot;Yes, but with the low pressure you have on your leftif you fly too fast, in a couple of hoursyou will turn left and end up at the North Pole.(Laughter)And then he asked me —and this is something I will never forget in my life —he just asked me, &quot;You&#39;re the good pilot up there.What do you really want? You want to go very fastin the wrong direction, or slowly in the good direction?(Laughter)(Applause)
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:这也就是你为什么要需要气象员。这就是为什么你需要有长远眼光的人。而这正是在我们现在的政治愿景失败所在，在各国政府。正如你们听到的，我们正在燃烧如此多的能量，不理解，以这样不可持续的方式生活是不能长期持续下去。因此，我们实际上是在下降我们放慢速度。我们经历了恐惧的时刻因为我们不知道如何少量天然气在我们的热气球里可允许我们飞行45,000公里。但当我们把疑惑和恐惧除外。而实际上这就是冒险的真正开始。
en:And this is why you need weathermen.This is why you need people with long-term vision.And this is precisely what failsin the political visions we have now,in the political governments.We are burning, as you heard,so much energy,not understanding that such an unsustainableway of life cannot last for long.So, we went down actually.We slowed down. And we went through moments of fearsbecause we had no idea how the little amount of gaswe had in the ballooncould allow us to travel 45,000 kilometers.But we were expected to have doubts; we&#39;re expected to have fears.And actually this is where the adventure really started.
时间： 7:08
zh-cn:当我们飞越撒哈拉和印度时，那是不错的假日。我们可以随时随地的降落，然后乘飞机飞回家来。可是在太平洋中间，如果你没有顺风的话，你就不可能降落，你就不能回家了。这个是一个紧急关头。这就是你必须时刻警醒从自动思维方式中。这就是你必须时刻激励自己你的内在潜力，你的创造力。这个时候你要摆脱所有的压舱物，所有的必然的事以便适应新的形势。
en:When we were flying over the Sahara and Indiait was nice holidays.We could land anytime and fly back home with an airplane.In the middle of the Pacific,when you don&#39;t have the good winds, you cannot land,you cannot go back.That&#39;s a crisis.That&#39;s the moment when you have to wake upfrom the automatic way of thinking.That&#39;s the moment when you have to motivateyour inner potential,your creativity.That&#39;s when you throw out all the ballast,all the certainties,in order to adapt to the new situation.
时间： 7:39
zh-cn:而实际上，我们完全改变我们的飞行计划。我们彻底改变了我们的战略。20天之后，我们成功的降落在埃及。但是，如果我给你们看这张照片不是告诉你们我们当时是多么高兴。是为了告诉你们我们当时在最后一个瓶子里，还剩下多少燃料。我们一共携带了3.7吨的液体丙烷。当我们降落时，只剩下40公斤了。
en:And actually, we changed completely our flight plan.We changed completely our strategy.And after 20 days we landed successfully in Egypt.But if I show you this pictureit&#39;s not to tell you how happy we were.It&#39;s to show you how much gas was leftin the last bottles.We took off with 3.7 tons of liquid propane.We landed with 40 kilos.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:当我看到那张照片，我给自己作出了一个承诺。一个承诺，我将会进行下一个环球飞行这将是无燃料，完全不依靠陈旧的矿物能源，为了安全起见，不会受到燃料容量不够的威胁。我当时不知道是如何去实现它。我只是想这是一个我想做的一个梦想。
en:When I saw that, I made a promise to myself.I made a promise that the next time I would fly around the world,it would be with no fuel,independent from fossil energies,in order to be safe,not to be threatened by the fuel gauge.I had no idea how it was possible.I just thought it&#39;s a dream and I want to do it.
时间： 8:29
zh-cn:而当我的气球胶囊被正式引入在华盛顿的航空航天博物馆，并一同被展出和诸如，查尔斯·林德伯格（首次單人不着陆的跨大西洋飛行的人）的飞机，阿波罗11，莱特兄弟的第一架實用飛機（世界上第一架實用飛機發明者），查克·葉格（被認為是20世紀人類航空史上最重要的傳奇人物之一）的第61次（最后一次）飞行的飞机，当时我真的想过。我想，20世纪，那时是多么的辉煌。人类实现了那么多的梦想。但是，这不可能在未来了实现了。因为这需要太多的能源。这将花费太多。我们将不允许这么做，因为我们必须要拯救我们的天然资源从现在起的几个世纪里。
en:And when the capsule of my balloon was introducedofficially in the Air and Space Museum in Washington,together with the airplane of Charles Lindbergh,with Apollo 11, with the Wright Brothers&#39; Flyer,with Chuck Yeager&#39;s 61,I had really a thought then.I thought, well, the 20th century, that was brilliant.It allowed to do all those things there.But it will not be possible in the future any more.It takes too much energy. It will cost too much.It will be prohibitedbecause we&#39;ll have to save our natural resourcesin a few decades from now.
时间： 9:00
zh-cn:因此，我们如何使这种首创精神永久化并且完全不依靠陈旧的能源？这正是太阳能动力在我脑海里突如其来的一种念头。我认为这是一个不错的隐喻为了二十一世纪。创业精神应该继续下去，但在另一个层面上。不是征服地球或空间，不能再像之前一样，因为地球上的能源是有限的，而是提高生活质量。我们怎样才能穿过冰寒以便让最令人难以置信的事情变得可行？什么是今天完全不可能的 —摆脱对矿物能源的依赖。
en:So how can we perpetuatethis pioneering spiritwith something that will be independent from fossil energy?And this is when the project Solar Impulsereally started toturn in my head.And I think it&#39;s a nice metaphor alsofor the 21st century.Pioneering spirit should continue, but on another level.Not to conquer the planet or space,not anymore, it has been done,but rather to improve the quality of life.How can we go through the ice of certaintyin order to make the most incredible a possible thing?What is today completely impossible —get rid of our dependency on fossil energy.
时间： 9:46
zh-cn:如果你告诉人们，我们要从世界上的矿物能源独立出来，大家都会笑你，除了在座的人外，这里有一个疯狂的人被邀请发言。（笑声）所以，这一想法是，如果我们驾驶太阳能飞机环绕世界飞行，绝对不使用燃料，没有人可以在未来说这一点是不可能做到的对于汽车，加热系统，电脑，等等等等。
en:If you tell to people, we want to be independentfrom fossil energy in our world,people will laugh at you, except here,where crazy people are invited to speak.(Laughter)So, the idea is that if we fly around the worldin a solar powered airplane,using absolutely no fuel,nobody ever could say in the futurethat it&#39;s impossible to do itfor cars, for heating systems,for computers, and so on and so on.
时间：10:15
zh-cn:那么，太阳能飞机并不是什么新鲜的东西。他们已经在过去尝试过，但没有储蓄能力，也没有电池。这意味着他们可更多的证明可再生能源的界限要比它的潜力大的多。如果我们想展现他们的可能性，我们要昼夜飞行。这意味着在白天飞行的过程中，要给电池充电，以便给晚上的飞行提供充足的能源，第二天接着继续飞行。这已经在没有飞行员的遥控小飞机模型实现了，
en:Well, solar power airplanes are not new.They have flown in the past, but withoutsaving capabilities, without batteries.Which means that they have more proventhe limits of renewable energiesthan the potential of it.If we want to show the potential,we have to fly day and night.That means to load the batteries during the flight,in order to spend the night on the batteries,and fly the next day again.It has been made, already, on remote controlledlittle airplane models, without pilots.
时间：10:49
zh-cn:但是始终只是一个趣闻因为无法得到公众的支持。我认为你需要在飞机里有一位飞行员他可以和大学探讨，可以和学生们探讨，甚至在飞行期间和政客们交谈，使之真正成为人类的冒险。为此，不幸的是，4米，翼展是不够的。您需要64米翼展。64米翼展以便携带一名飞行员，和电池，用空气动力学效率足够慢的飞行。为什么呢？由于燃料是不容易更换。这是肯定的。用我们飞机上的200平方米的太阳能板，我们可以产生相当200盏小灯泡的能量。这意味着一棵圣诞树，一棵大圣诞树。
en:But it stays an anecdotebecause the public couldn&#39;t identify to it.I think you need a pilot in the planethat can talk to the universities,that can talk to students,talk to politicians during the flight,and really make it a human adventure.For that, unfortunately,four meters wingspan is not enough.You need 64 meter wingspan.64 meter wingspan to carry one pilot, the batteries,flies slowly enough with the aerodynamic efficiency.Why that? Because fuel is not easy to replace.That&#39;s for sure.And with 200 square meters of solar power on our plane,we can produce the same energythan 200 little lightbulbs.That means a Christmas tree, a big Christmas tree.
时间：11:40
zh-cn:所以，问题是，你怎么能够携带一个飞行员环球飞行驾驶一架飞机，它所消耗的能源同等于照明一个大的圣诞树？人会告诉你这是不可能的，而这也正是为什么我们尝试这样做。我们在六年前启动了这个项目，是和我的同事Andre Borschberg。我们的队伍现以70人了。我们经历了模拟，设计阶段，计算，准备第一个样机建设阶段。这个过程是两年工作的结果。驾驶舱，螺旋桨，引擎。只是机身这里，它是如此的轻，它不是由艺术家设计的，但完全可以。整个机身共50公斤重。大多数重量是在翼梁上。
en:So the question is, how can you carry a pilot around the worldwith an airplane that usesthe same amount of energy as a big Christmas tree?People will tell you it&#39;s impossible,and that&#39;s exactly why we try to do it.We launched the project with my colleague Andre Borschbergsix years ago.We have now 70 people in the team working on it.We have gone through the stages of simulation, design,computing, preparing the constructionof the first prototype.That has been achieved after two years of work.Cockpit, propeller, engine.Just the fuselage here, it&#39;s so light.It&#39;s not designed by an artist, but it could be.50 kilos for the entire fuselage.Couple of kilos more for the wing spars.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:这是完整的飞机结构。一个月前我们已经向公众介绍了它。你无法想象它对一个队伍意味着什么，他们为此奋斗了六年的汗水来表明它不只是一个梦想和远见，它是一个真正的飞机。一个我们可以终于真正展示的飞机。
en:This is the complete structure of the airplane.And one month ago we have unveiled it.You cannot imagine how it is for a teamwho has been working six years on itto show that it&#39;s not only a dream and a vision,it&#39;s a real airplane.A real airplane that we could finally present.
时间：12:45
zh-cn:什么是我们现在的目标呢？我们的目标是起飞，今年年底的第一次试飞，但是大致明年春天或夏天，起飞，用我们自己的力量，没有额外的帮助，没有牵引，爬升至9000米的高度，与此同时，我们给电池蓄电，当我们到达最高高度是，我们运行发动机，我们将在夜晚开始时飞达目的地。届时将会有只有一个目标，只有一个，在电池用空前到达下一个日出的地方。（笑声）
en:And what&#39;s the goal now?The goal is to take off,end of this year for the first test,but mainly next year, spring or summer,take off, on our own power,without additional help, without being towed,climb to 9,000 meters altitude.The same time we load the batteries,we run the engines, and when we get at the maximum height,we arrive at the beginning of the night.And there, there will be just one goal, just one:reach the next sunrise before the batteries are empty.(Laughter)
时间：13:25
zh-cn:而这正是我们这个世界的象征，如果我们的飞机太重如果飞行员浪费能源，我们不可能穿越夜晚。而在我们的世界，如果我们继续溺爱，浪费我们的能源，如果我们继续进行建设那么多的能源消耗的事情，大多数的公司将破产，很显然，我们将不会把我们的地球交付给我们的下一代在没有大的问题下。
en:And this is exactly the symbol of our world.If our airplane is too heavy,if the pilot wastes energy,we&#39;ll never make it through the night.And in our world, if we keep on spoiling,wasting our energy resources,if we keep on building things that consume so much energythat most of the companies now go bankrupt,it&#39;s clear that we&#39;ll never give the planet to the next generationwithout a major problem.
时间：13:51
zh-cn:所以，你看到这架飞机更是一个象征。我不认为这会在明年就运输200人。但是，当 林德伯格 穿越大西洋时他的飞机的有效载荷也只是一个人和一些燃料。而20年后，可以运送200人在每一个穿越大西洋的飞机上。
en:So, you see that this airplane is more a symbol.I don&#39;t think it will transport 200 peoplein the next years.But when Lindbergh crossed the Atlantic,the payload was also just sufficientfor one person and some fuel.And 20 years later there were 200 peoplein every airplane crossing the Atlantic.
时间：14:10
zh-cn:因此，我们必须开始，做出这个榜样。有一点像这里的这张照片。这是在荷兰博物馆里的，马格里特的一幅绘画，我很喜欢。这是一个管道，上面写这，“这不是一管道。”这不是架飞机。这是当我们相信不可能时，我们所能做的象征，当我们有一个团队，当我们的创业精神，特别是当我们明白，我们所有一切的必然事因该摆脱掉。
en:So, we have to start,and show the example.A little bit like on this picture here.This is a painting from Magritte,in the museum in Holland that I love so much.It&#39;s a pipe, and it&#39;s written, &quot;This is not a pipe.&quot;This is not an airplane.This is a symbol of what we can achievewhen we believe in the impossible,when we have a team,when we have pioneering spirit,and especially when we understandthat all the certainties we haveshould be thrown overboard.
时间：14:44
zh-cn:我感到很高兴在开始的时候我想我们将不得不环球飞行并且是没有燃料的，以便使人们明白我们要表达的消息。我和安德烈越来越多的被邀请到世界各地去谈论我们的项目，谈谈它的象征，我们收到政界人士，能源论坛的邀请为了表明并不是完全愚蠢的再思考摆脱依赖矿物能源。
en:What pleases me very muchis that in the beginning I thought that we would have to flyaround the world with no fuelin order to have our message been understood.And more and more, we&#39;re invited around the world with Andreto talk about that project, to talk about the symbol of it,invited by politicians, invited in energy forums,in order to show that it&#39;s not anymorecompletely stupidto think about getting rid of the dependencyon fossil energies.
时间：15:12
zh-cn:因此，通过像今天这样的发言，通过采访，通过会议，我们的目标是让尽可能多的人加入我们的队伍。成功不会来到如果我们“只是，” 引用，非引用，以太阳能动力飞机环球飞行。不，我们将会成功如果足够多的人下定决心在日常生活中节约能源，使用可再生能源。这是可能的。你知道，用我们今天所拥有的技术我们可以在欧洲节省百分之三十至五十的能源，另外的一部份，我们可以采用可再生能源。剩余百分之25或30用石油，天然气，煤炭，核能，或别的什么来解决。这是可以接受的。
en:So, through speeches like this one today,through interviews, through meetings,our goal is to get as many people possible on the team.The success will not comeif we &quot;just,&quot; quote, unquote,fly around the world in a solar-powered airplane.No, the success will comeif enough people are motivatedto do exactly the same in their daily life,save energy, go to renewables.And this is possible. You know, with the technologies we have today,we can save between 30 and 50 percentof the energy of a country in Europe,and we can solve half of the rest with renewables.It leaves 25 or 30 percent foroil, gas, coal, nuclear, or whatever.This is acceptable.
时间：16:02
zh-cn:这就是为什么那些相信这样一种精神的人将受到我们的欢迎。你可以访问SolarImpulse.com 订阅只是被告知我们正在做的事情。但是更多的是，获得意见，写你们的评论，告知世界如果是否在空中可行的话在地面上是肯定可以的了。
en:This is why all the people who believein this type of spiritare welcome to be on that team.You can just go on SolarImpulse.com, subscribeto just be informed of what we&#39;re doing.But much more, to get advices,to give your comments, to spread the wordthat if it&#39;s possible in the air,of course it&#39;s possible in the ground.
时间：16:25
zh-cn:而每一次，我们有一些未来冰层，我们要知道，生命是伟大的，成功将是辉煌的如果我们敢于克服对于冰的恐惧，克服障碍，解决问题，以便看看在另一边是什么景象。所以，你看，这就是我们在我们这边正在做的。每个人都有自己的目标，有他的梦想，有他的远见。
en:And each time we have some ice in the future,we have to know that life will be great,and the success will be brilliantif we dare to overcome our fear of the ice,to go through the obstacle,to go through the problem, in order to see what there is on the other side.So, you see, this is what we&#39;re doing on our side.Everyone has his goal, has his dreams,has his visions.
时间：16:54
zh-cn:我给你们交托的问题是那个压舱物你想摆脱掉？那种高度是你在你的生活中想飞行的，为了你希望有的成功，去一个真正属于你的那一点，用你所有的潜力，并且去实现你真正能实现的？由于大多数我们有的可再生能源，是我们自己的潜力，和我们自己的热情。因此，让我们去做吧，我祝愿你们创造美好的未来经历一个卓越的冒险。 谢谢。（鼓掌声）
en:The question I leave you with nowis which is the ballastyou would like to throw overboard?Which will be the altitude at whichyou would like to fly in your life,to get to the success that you wish to have,to get to the point that really belongs to you,with the potential you have,and the one you can really fulfill?Because the most renewable energy we haveis our own potential, and our own passion.So, let&#39;s go for it, and I wish you an excellent adventurein the wings of the future. Thank you.(Applause)
