时间： 0:11
zh-cn:白宫在19世纪早期刚刚被建好的时候是一个开放的建筑。附近的人会来参观。亚当斯总统执政期间一个当地的牙医来到白宫他想跟总统握手总统当时正在和国务卿谈话他让国务卿先离开，然后问那个牙医可不可以帮他拔牙到了19世纪50年代，皮尔斯总统执政期间他说过一句非常有名的话——大概也是他说过的唯一一句名言一个当地人路过白宫时感慨说，“我真想参观一下这栋漂亮的房子。” 皮尔斯总统对他说为什么不呢，先生，你当然可以进来这不是我的房子。这是人民的房子
en:So when the White House was builtin the early 19th century, it was an open house.Neighbors came and went. Under President Adams,a local dentist happened by.He wanted to shake the President&#39;s hand.The President dismissed the Secretary of State,whom he was conferring with, and asked the dentistif he would remove a tooth.Later, in the 1850s, under President Pierce,he was known to have remarked— probably the only thing he&#39;s known for —when a neighbor passed by and said, &quot;I&#39;d love to seethe beautiful house,&quot; and Pierce said to him,&quot;Why my dear sir, of course you may come in.This isn&#39;t my house. It is the people&#39;s house.&quot;
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:但是，当我2009年初奥巴执政初期来到白宫的时候这个地方却一点也不开放窗户前装着厚厚的防爆窗帘电脑里运行的还是windows 2000防火墙屏蔽了所有的社交媒体我们没有博客，更别谈twitter账号了。直到今天都是如此。我负责的“开放政府”计划高度重视透明度，参与度和合作性，将这些理念灌输到我们工作中，以此来使政府变得开放与民众协同工作
en:Well, when I got to the White House in the beginningof 2009, at the start of the Obama Administration,the White House was anything but open.Bomb blast curtains covered my windows.We were running Windows 2000.Social media were blocked at the firewall.We didn&#39;t have a blog, let alone a dozen twitter accountslike we have today.I came in to become the head of Open Government,to take the values and the practices of transparency,participation and collaboration, and instill theminto the way that we work, to open up government,to work with people.
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:当前我们都知道商业公司很擅长让员工以小组或类似网络的方式来生产非常复杂的产品，例如汽车和电脑并且一个社会能制造的产品越复杂社会生产就越成功商业公司制造产品而政府制造公共品，政府致力于治疗癌症教育儿童，修建道路可惜的是，我们没有能够很好地处理这其中的复杂关系的机构。我们没有这样的机构，去发挥人才的能力让他们在开放与合作的环境下跟我们一起工作
en:Now one of the things that we knowis that companies are very good at getting people to worktogether in teams and in networks to makevery complex products, like cars and computers,and the more complex the products are a society creates,the more successful the society is over time.Companies make goods, but governments,they make public goods. They work on the cure for cancerand educating our children and making roads,but we don&#39;t have institutions that are particularly goodat this kind of complexity. We don&#39;t have institutionsthat are good at bringing our talents to bear,at working with us in this kind of open and collaborative way.
时间： 2:01
zh-cn:所以，当我们想要建立一个开放政府政策的时候首先要知道我们已经做了什么。我们询问公共部门的雇员，要怎样做才能开放我们的政府结果发现我们从未在这方面下过功夫我们希望向公众寻求帮助一同构建这样的开放政策，而不是像以前一样由我们制定规则，再让公众进行评论这种做法在法律上和文化上都没有先例，也没有技术支持实际上，许多人告诉我们这样做是不合法的
en:So when we wanted to create our Open Government policy,what did we do? We wanted, naturally, to ask public sectoremployees how we should open up government.Turns out that had never been done before.We wanted to ask members of the public to help uscome up with a policy, not after the fact, commentingon a rule after it&#39;s written, the way is typically the case,but in advance. There was no legal precedent,no cultural precedent, no technical way of doing this.In fact, many people told us it was illegal.
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:这是最主要的障碍政府的存在实际上是为了引导两样事物那就是政府和公民之间不断相互交换的价值观和专业技能来做决定但是我们的政府机构现有的运作方式仍是18世纪的集权模式它通过投票来汇聚价值观四年一次，两年一次，或者最多一年一次在社会媒体如此发达的今天，以这样的方式来表达我们的价值观实在是太薄弱无力了现代科技使我们可以很好的表达自己甚至有时候还会太随心所欲了
en:Here&#39;s the crux of the obstacle.Governments exist to channel the flow of two things,really, values and expertise to and from governmentand to and from citizens to the end of making decisions.But the way that our institutions are designed,in our rather 18th-century, centralized model,is to channel the flow of values through voting,once every four years, once every two years, at best,once a year. This is a rather anemic and thin way, in thisera of social media, for us to actually express our values.Today we have technology that lets us express ourselvesa great deal, perhaps a little too much.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:19世纪时，人们坚信官僚主义和行政国家可以帮助我们管理好复杂而庞大的社会但当我们集中化这样的官僚主义使其根深蒂固后才发现聪明的人总是在为别人工作看看在座的各位我们就知道专家和智者是广泛地分布于社会当中的而不仅仅存在于我们的政府机构里
en:Then in the 19th century, we layer onthe concept of bureaucracy and the administrative stateto help us govern complex and large societies.But we&#39;ve centralized these bureaucracies.We&#39;ve entrenched them. And we know thatthe smartest person always works for someone else.We need to only look around this room to know thatexpertise and intelligence is widely distributed in society,and not limited simply to our institutions.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:科学家近年来做了一些研究他们提出了“流”这个概念他们认为我们的体系，无论是自然的还是社会的都会引导通过它的“流”的改变就如河可以引导水流闪电可以引导电流树叶则可以引导树木中营养的流向即使有时候需要绕过一些障碍仍然在引导营养物质不停地流动我们的社会体系和政府体系也是一样在这里“流”这个简单明了的比喻可以帮助我们理解真正的问题所在使我们发现重新设计政府机构中“流”的必要性
en:Scientists have been studying in recent yearsthe phenomenon that they often describe as flow,that the design of our systems, whether natural or social,channel the flow of whatever runs through them.So a river is designed to channel the flow of water,and the lightning bolt that comes out of a cloud channelsthe flow of electricity, and a leaf is designed to channelthe flow of nutrients to the tree,sometimes even having to route around an obstacle,but to get that nutrition flowing.The same can be said for our social systems, for oursystems of government, where, at the very least,flow offers us a helpful metaphor for understandingwhat the problem is, what&#39;s really broken,and the urgent need that we have, that we all feel today,to redesign the flow of our institutions.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:我们生活在一个信息和社交网络突然大爆炸的年代所以直到最近我们才真正有这样的机会来重新设计我们的政府机构想想看，在其他你所熟知的行业里在经济的其他板块，尤其是和公共经济一样大的板块有哪一个不是在不断地创新自己的商业模式？确实，我们在创新上投资的不少我们提高网络速度，强调科学教育，进行学术拨款但是在政府机构的重塑和创新上我们做得还太少太少
en:We live in a Cambrian era of big data, of social networks,and we have this opportunity to redesign these institutionsthat are actually quite recent.Think about it: What other business do you know,what other sector of the economy, and especially oneas big as the public sector, that doesn&#39;t seek to reinventits business model on a regular basis?Sure, we invest plenty in innovation. We investin broadband and science education and science grants,but we invest far too little in reinventing and redesigningthe institutions that we have.
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:人们很容易去抱怨党派政治和官僚主义，也很喜欢抱怨政府这几乎成了人们茶余饭后的娱乐活动在选举期间更是如此但这个世界是很复杂的，很快我们就将达到100亿人口这其中很多人缺乏基本的资源我们可以抱怨，但我们更该想想该怎样去改变现状？“阿拉伯之春”之后又会发生什么？
en:Now, it&#39;s very easy to complain, of course, aboutpartisan politics and entrenched bureaucracy, and we loveto complain about government. It&#39;s a perennial pastime,especially around election time, butthe world is complex. We soon will have 10 billion people,many of whom will lack basic resources.So complain as we might, what actually can replacewhat we have today?What comes the day after the Arab Spring?
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:当然，还有一个明显很吸引人的选择那就是网络。是不是？例如facebook和twitter之类的网络做着面对任何挑战的准备。facebook有3000名员工却要管理9亿用户我们甚至应该把他们称作“网络公民”因为他们最近联合起来反对政府的行政干预而且这些公民利用网络以不同的方式进行合作，互助互利但是这种相互写作的私人化的社区并不是自下而上的民主它并不能取代政府在facebook上加个好友并不能取代你和我现在共同努力所做的工作并不能教会你怎么管理人民但社交媒体确实给我们很大的启示为什么推特这么成功？因为它开放了一个平台它开放了一个应用程序市场使成百上千的新应用能够以此为基础进行运作使我们能够以新的方式来阅读和处理信息我们需要思考如何开放政府机构的“应用平台”以及这个平台上的运作方式如果哪个国家能将政府机构的层级模式——因为我们仍然需要维持公共价值观需要引导“流”的动向——与生动多样的生活和新奇刺激的网络结合起来所有人同心协力将这样的创新应用到我们的政府机构和管理方式中一定能称为全球下一个超级大国
en:Well, one attractive alternative that obviously presents itselfto us is that of networks. Right? Networkslike Facebook and Twitter. They&#39;re lean. They&#39;re mean.You&#39;ve got 3,000 employees at Facebookgoverning 900 million inhabitants.We might even call them citizens, because they&#39;ve recentlyrisen up to fight against legislative incursion,and the citizens of these networks work togetherto serve each other in great ways.But private communities, private, corporate,privatizing communities, are not bottom-up democracies.They cannot replace government.Friending someone on Facebook is not complex enoughto do the hard work of you and I collaboratingwith each other and doing the hard work of governance.But social media do teach us something.Why is Twitter so successful? Because it opens up its platform.It opens up the API to allow hundreds of thousandsof new applications to be built on top of it, so that we canread and process information in new and exciting ways.We need to think about how to open up the APIof government, and the way that we&#39;re going to do that,the next great superpower is going to be the onewho can successfully combine the hierarchy of institution —because we have to maintain those public values,we have to coordinate the flow — but with the diversityand the pulsating life and the chaos and the excitementof networks, all of us working together to buildthese new innovations on top of our institutions,to engage in the practice of governance.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:历史上就有这样的先例，12世纪时亨利二世发明了陪审团这是一种将权力由政府下放到公民非常有力且可行的模式现在我们有机会也有迫切的需求，构建上千种新的方式将网络与政府机构联系起来创造上千种全新的“陪审团”有民众陪审团，也有“胡萝卜暴民”和“编程马拉松”这样的活动我们正在开始创造使人们可以共同进行管理的新模式
en:We have a precedent for this. Good old Henry II here,in the 12th century, invented the jury.Powerful, practical, palpable model for handing powerfrom government to citizens.Today we have the opportunity, and we havethe imperative, to create thousands of new waysof interconnecting between networks and institutions,thousands of new kinds of juries: the citizen jury,the Carrotmob, the hackathon, we are just beginningto invent the models by which we can cocreatethe process of governance.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:我们现在还不知道这个宏伟的蓝图具体是什么样子但在我们身边已经有了一些关于管理方式的进展，我甚至觉得这不仅仅应该叫做“进展”，而应该叫做“革新”有些科技含量很高，有些则使用非常原始的方式例如在印度的拉贾斯坦邦工农权利组织（MKSS）将政府开支贴在10万多个村庄的墙上邀请村民来进行评判谁可以继续留下来吃公家饭?谁应该收拾东西走人?那个花了几百万也没建好的桥又是怎么回事?这样做不仅节省了政府开支还使民众能够真正地参与到预算的制定过程中
en:Now, we don&#39;t fully have a picture of what this will look likeyet, but we&#39;re seeing pockets of evolutionemerging all around us — maybe not even evolution,I&#39;d even start to call it a revolution — in the way that we govern.Some of it&#39;s very high-tech,and some of it is extremely low-tech,such as the project that MKSS is running in Rajasthan,India, where they take the spending data of the stateand paint it on 100,000 village walls,and then invite the villagers to come and commentwho is on the government payroll, who&#39;s actually died,what are the bridges that have been built to nowhere,and to work together through civic engagement to savereal money and participate and have access to that budget.
时间： 8:14
zh-cn:不仅是政府政策的制定政府的建设也是同样的道理英国的Spacehive网站通过网上集资让居民能够根据自己的意愿选择为一个小足球场或是公园里的长椅投资从而加强社区内的设施和服务在向缺乏资源和服务的地区提供帮助这方面做得最好的莫过于Ushahidi这个开源软件了它诞生于2008年肯尼亚大选后的暴乱时期这个以危机地图为特点的网络社区能够以众包的方式对处于困境中的人们提供帮助它在海地震后救灾以及最近意大利的森林火灾中都功不可没现在，红十字会也在训练志愿者并在推特上对他们进行认证他们不是作为政府机构的补充而是要取代政府的一部分职能
en:But it&#39;s not just about policing government.It&#39;s also about creating government.Spacehive in the U.K. is engaging in crowd-funding,getting you and me to raise the money to buildthe goalposts and the park benches that will actuallyallow us to deliver better services in our communities.No one is better at this activity of actually getting usto engage in delivering services,sometimes where none exist, than Ushahidi.Created after the post-election riots in Kenya in 2008,this crisis-mapping website and community is actually ableto crowdsource and target the delivery ofbetter rescue services to people trapped under the rubble,whether it&#39;s after the earthquakes in Haiti,or more recently in Italy.And the Red Cross too is training volunteers and Twitteris certifying them, not simply to supplement existinggovernment institutions, but in many cases, to replace them.
时间： 9:09
zh-cn:现在，我们已经看了很多开放政府讯息的例子现在我们再来看看人们在政府信息平台的基础上创造并运作新应用的例子我有很多例子可以选择但我想讲讲 Jon Bon Jovi你们可能有人也听说过，他在新泽西开了一家“心灵厨房”专为无家可归的流浪者提供食物尤其是那些流浪的老兵今年二月，他来到白宫他说道“我想出资以创建具有扩展性的应用程序，即能协助无家可归者，亦能协助服务者以让他们表现的更好。”於2012年2月至6月，其比赛的入围者已公布你能想象吗？去年，在官僚主义的世界里他们在四个月的期间内完成该做的事！你仅仅能在同样的时间内填写表格更别提创建一个改善人民生活的真正与明确的革新
en:Now what we&#39;re seeing lots of examples of, obviously,is the opening up of government data,not enough examples of this yet, but we&#39;re startingto see this practice of people creating and generatinginnovative applications on top of government data.There&#39;s so many examples I could have picked, and Iselected this one of Jon Bon Jovi. Some of youmay or may not know that he runs a soup kitchenin New Jersey, where he caters to and serves the homelessand particularly homeless veterans.In February, he approached the White House, and said,&quot;I would like to fund a prize to create scalable nationalapplications, apps, that will help not only the homelessbut those who deliver services [to] them to do so better.&quot;February 2012 to June of 2012,the finalists are announced in the competition.Can you imagine, in the bureaucratic world of yesteryear,getting anything done in a four-month period of time?You can barely fill out the forms in that amount of time,let alone generate real, palpable innovationsthat improve people&#39;s lives.
时间：10:09
zh-cn:我想明确地声明其开放政府革命并不是私有化的政府因为在诸多情况下，当我们有意愿完成这些事时，我们会提交比我们目前政策中的规范和立法与以诉讼为导向的策略一个更进取与更优秀的政策在德克萨斯州 ，他们监管515种行业从钻井员工到花商目前，你能够带枪进入达拉斯的教堂但若没有许可证，你无法进行插花行为因为这将使你入狱所以，德克萨斯怎么做？他们要求我们用网上的政策百科不仅摆脱阻碍企业发展的繁琐条文，而且用更创新的规章来代替，有时新应用开发的透明度会使得我们不仅保护消费者和公众也能激励经济发展
en:And I want to be clear to mention that this open governmentrevolution is not about privatizing government,because in many cases what it can do when we havethe will to do so is to deliver more progressiveand better policy than the regulations and the legislativeand litigation-oriented strategiesby which we make policy today.In the State of Texas, they regulate 515 professions,from well-driller to florist.Now, you can carry a gun into a church in Dallas,but do not make a flower arrangement without a license,because that will land you in jail.So what is Texas doing? They&#39;re asking you and me,using online policy wikis, to help not simply get rid ofburdensome regulations that impede entrepreneurship,but to replace those regulations with more innovativealternatives, sometimes using transparency in the creationof new iPhone apps that will allows usboth to protect consumers and the publicand to encourage economic development.
时间：11:11
zh-cn:这是对于开放政府是个不错的副业它不仅有利于我们谈论到的发展而且谈论到这方面的开放创新工作时有利于经济和创造就业作为俄罗斯最大最古老的俄罗斯联邦储蓄银行它主要归俄罗斯政府所有开始实践众包这种方式，鼓励员工和市民创新去年他们从开放创新中省下了10亿美元，即300亿卢布，并且他们很激进的推进众包的范围，不仅限于银行还有公共部门我们看到很多这样创新者用开放政府数据的例子，不仅用了开发应用，而且用来开公司，雇员工来与政府合作
en:That is a nice sideline of open government.It&#39;s not only the benefits that we&#39;ve talked about with regardto development. It&#39;s the economic benefits and thejob creation that&#39;s coming from this open innovation work.Sberbank, the largest and oldest bank in Russia,largely owned by the Russian government,has started practicing crowdsourcing, engagingits employees and citizens in the public in developing innovations.Last year they saved a billion dollars, 30 billion rubles,from open innovation, and they&#39;re pushing radicallythe extension of crowdsourcing, not only from banking,but into the public sector.And we see lots of examples of these innovators usingopen government data, not simply to make apps,but then to make companies and to hire peopleto build them working with the government.
时间：11:58
zh-cn:所以很多创新者都是本地的在加州的圣拉蒙，有人开发了一个iphone应用允许我们上传CPR训练的认证，并且有人突发心脏病时，就会有消息推送给你这样你就可以赶过去进行CPR接受CPR的病人有两倍的机会存活下来他们的口号是“我们身边就有英雄”
en:So a lot of these innovations are local.In San Ramon, California, they published an iPhone appin which they allow you or me to say we are certifiedCPR-trained, and then when someone has a heart attack,a notification goes out so that youcan rush over to the person over here and deliver CPR.The victim who receives bystander CPRis more than twice as likely to survive.&quot;There is a hero in all of us,&quot; is their slogan.
时间：12:25
zh-cn:但对于地区来说并没有受到限制加拿大的英属哥伦比亚发布了一个目录目录里包含了居民和市民可以参与的州发起的政府创新。
en:But it&#39;s not limited to the local.British Columbia, Canada, is publishing a catalogueof all the ways that its residents and citizens can engagewith the state in the cocreation of governance.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:我要澄清一点这可能会引起争议那就是“政府开放”并不是等同于“政府工作透明”简单的把数据公开并没有改变政府的工作方式仅仅是做到透明并不能让任何人利用这些数据来解决问题，这也不能使政府发生改变它所做的是在公民社会和政府之间围绕着对信息的所有权和使用权的争夺创造出一种相互敌对的关系。并且透明化本身并不减少政治的经济成本一个尚有争议的观点是它甚至不会如预期的那样明确政府的责任，除非我们通过接下来要提到的方式携手合作并结合透明性来革新我们工作的协同方式。
en:Let me be very clear,and perhaps controversial,that open government is notabout transparent government.Simply throwing data over the transom doesn&#39;t changehow government works.It doesn&#39;t get anybody to do anything with that datato change lives, to solve problems, and it doesn&#39;t changegovernment.What it does is it creates an adversarial relationshipbetween civil society and governmentover the control and ownership of information.And transparency, by itself, is not reducing the flowof money into politics, and arguably,it&#39;s not even producing accountability as well as it mightif we took the next step of combining participation andcollaboration with transparency to transform how we work.
时间：13:21
zh-cn:我想我们将会看到这个革命将会有两个阶段，开放政府革命的第一阶段是从公众传递更好的信息到中心。从2005年开始，在美国这也是开放政府如何真正开始的当时我给学生们教专利法并解释在官僚主义里的个人如何有权利做那个专利应用成为专利的决定并在整个创造性活动的领域内能单独拥有20年的权利那我们怎么做？我们说可以做网站做一个专家的网络，社会的网络把机构连接到网络上使得科学家和科技家们能得到更好的专利局的消息来帮助做出这些决定我们在美国，英国，日本和澳大利亚开展了这个工作，现在我很高兴的宣布美国专利局将会变得全球化，全面化和全面的开放，今年开始，所有的专利申请将会对市民开放参与。
en:We&#39;re going to see this evolution really in two phases,I think. The first phase of the open government revolutionis delivering better information from the crowdinto the center.Starting in 2005, and this is how this open governmentwork in the U.S. really got started,I was teaching a patent law class to my students andexplaining to them how a single person in the bureaucracyhas the power to make a decisionabout which patent application becomes the next patent,and therefore monopolizes for 20 years the rightsover an entire field of inventive activity.Well, what did we do? We said, we can make a website,we can make an expert network, a social network,that would connect the network to the institutionto allow scientists and technologists to getbetter information to the patent officeto aid in making those decisions.We piloted the work in the U.S. and the U.K. and Japanand Australia, and now I&#39;m pleased to reportthat the United States Patent Office will be rolling outuniversal, complete, and total openness,so that all patent applications will now be openfor citizen participation, beginning this year.
时间：14:30
zh-cn:这个革命的第二阶段——（掌声）他们值得这掌声（掌声）
en:The second phase of this evolution — Yeah. (Applause)They deserve a hand. (Applause)
时间：14:36
zh-cn:第一阶段是更高效的收集民意第二阶段是将决策权下放在巴西的阿雷格里港参与式预算已经存在已久。在芝加哥的49区则正开始。俄罗斯用百科让市民一起写法律立陶宛也有类似的形式。当我们看到政府核心作用的权利——消费，立法，决策——然后我们开始走上开放政府革命的道路
en:The first phase is in getting better information in.The second phase is in getting decision-making power out.Participatory budgeting has long been practicedin Porto Alegre, Brazil.They&#39;re just starting it in the 49th Ward in Chicago.Russia is using wikis to get citizens writing law together,as is Lithuania. When we start to seepower over the core functions of government— spending, legislation, decision-making —then we&#39;re well on our way to an open government revolution.
时间：15:05
zh-cn:我们可以做很多事情使我们走到这条路。很明显开放数据是其中之一但更重要的事情是创造更多更多参与的机会编程马拉松和用数据开发应用是个很好的方式让人们有兴趣参与其中，就好像审判团一样。但我们需要更多想这样的事这就是为什么我们要从娃娃抓起我们在TED上听到有人利用Arduino设备（译注：一种可以自己动手定制的“电脑”）做生物实验（biohacking）并改造他们的植物，而 Mozilla 在全球范围内鼓励年轻人动手制作网站和视频当我们开始教育年轻人我们并不生活在一个被动的、以接受为主的社会而是可以动手改变的社会时，我们有力量来改变我们的社区，改变我们的机构那也是我们开始真正让我们走上那条路一条通往开放政府创新的道路一条通过开放政府运动的道路一条通往开放政府革命的道路
en:There are many things that we can do to get us there.Obviously opening up the data is one,but the important thing is to create lots more —create and curate — lots more participatory opportunities.Hackathons and mashathons and working with datato build apps is an intelligible way for people to engageand participate, like the jury is,but we&#39;re going to need lots more things like it.And that&#39;s why we need to start with our youngest people.We&#39;ve heard talk here at TED about peoplebiohacking and hacking their plants with Arduino,and Mozilla is doing work around the world in gettingyoung people to build websites and make videos.When we start by teaching young people that we live,not in a passive society, a read-only society,but in a writable society, where we have the powerto change our communities, to change our institutions,that&#39;s when we begin to really put ourselves on the pathwaytowards this open government innovation,towards this open government movement,towards this open government revolution.
时间：16:11
zh-cn:让我以下面这段话结尾：我认为对我们来说最重要的事情是谈论并号召这次革命我们还没有伟大的作品来描述它。像平等、公平、传统选举、民主等议题都已经有了伟大的作品，但是开放政府还没有。它们还不够有趣，还不够激动人心到促使我们投入到这一巨大的机会中。但我认为如果我们想要实现其它的创新，那些在TED听到的关于洁净能源，教育和发展的充满希望和激情的创新如果我们想要使这些技术被采纳想要这些创新成果被规模化想要这些成果成为未来政府的一部分那么我们必须人人参与我们必须参与其中我们必须开放我们的机构，像叶子一样我们必须让营养完全的流经我们的政治团体流经我们的文化，创造开放的机构创造更稳固的民主和更美好的明天谢谢（掌声）
en:So let me close by saying that I think the important thingfor us to do is to talk about and demand this revolution.We don&#39;t have words, really, to describe it yet.Words like equality and fairness and the traditionalelections, democracy, these are not really great terms yet.They&#39;re not fun enough. They&#39;re not exciting enoughto get us engaged in this tremendous opportunitythat awaits us. But I would argue that if we want to seethe kinds of innovations, the hopeful and excitinginnovations that we hear talked about here at TED,in clean energy, in clean education,in development, if we want to see those adoptedand we want to see those scaled,we want to see them become the governance of tomorrow,then we must all participate,then we must get involved.We must open up our institutions, and like the leaf,we must let the nutrients flow throughout our body politic,throughout our culture, to create open institutionsto create a stronger democracy, a better tomorrow.Thank you. (Applause)
