时间： 0:11
zh-cn:Beverly Joubert (BJ)：我们真地非常热衷于非洲荒原及对这些荒原的保护。因此，一直以来，我们都在关注标志性的猫科动物。是的，我知道，面对人类困难和贫困，甚至气候变化，你或许会问，何必要为几只猫而忧心忡忡？今天，在这里，我们要和大家分享我们从一个非常重要而特殊的角色——这只花豹——身上所学到的东西。
en:Beverly Joubert: We are truly passionateabout the African wildernessand protecting the African wilderness,and so what we&#39;ve doneis we&#39;ve focused on iconic cats.And I know,in the light of human suffering and povertyand even climate change,one would wonder,why worry about a few cats?Well today we&#39;re hereto share with you a message that we have learnedfrom a very important and special character —this leopard.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:Dereck Joubert (DJ): 我们的生活基本上可以算是一集超长的“犯罪现场调查（CSI）”——大约长达28年之久。实质上，我们一直在做的事情包括：研究这门自然科学，观察（动物的）行为，并目睹了超过2000次由这些神奇的动物施行的猎杀。但是，科学无法合理解释的是个性，这些动物的独特个性。这里有个最好的例子。在非洲一棵2000年的猴面包树上，我们发现了这只花豹。在同一棵树上，我们也看到过她的母亲和外祖母。她带我们踏上了一段旅程，向我们展示了非常特别的东西——她的女儿，八天大。在我们发现这只花豹的那一刻，我们就意识到，我们需要进入她的生活。于是，在接下来的四年半时间里，我们基本上与这只花豹在一起——每天跟随她，观察她，开始了解她和她的独特个性，并真正地认识她。如今，命中注定，我要花大量的时间与一些独特的、极特立独行的、充满个性的、通常也很性感的女性在一起。（观众笑声）Beverly当然是其中之一，而这只小花豹，Legadema，则是另一位，她改变了我们的生活。
en:Dereck Joubert: Well, our lives have basically beenlike a super long episode of &quot;CSI&quot; —something like 28 years.In essence, what we&#39;ve doneis we&#39;ve studied the science, we&#39;ve looked at the behavior,we&#39;ve seen over 2,000 killsby these amazing animals.But one of the things that science really lets us down onis that personality,that individual personality that these animals have.And here&#39;s a prime example.We found this leopard in a 2,000-year-oldbaobab tree in Africa,the same tree that we found her mother inand her grandmother.And she took us on a journeyand revealed something very special to us —her own daughter, eight days old.And the minute we found this leopard,we realized that we needed to move in,and so we basically stayed with this leopardfor the next four-and-a-half years —following her every day,getting to know her,that individual personality of hers,and really coming to know her.Now I&#39;m destinedto spend a lot of timewith some unique,very, very special,individualisticand often seductive female characters.(Laughter)Beverly&#39;s clearly one of them,and this little leopard, Legadema, is another,and she changed our lives.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:BJ: 我们的确花了很多时间和她在一起——事实上，多过她母亲和她在一起的时间。当她母亲出去猎食时，我们会留下来陪她，并进行拍摄。刚和她相处不久，一道夹杂着雷鸣的闪电直劈在一棵离我们只有20步远的树上。当时的场景非常吓人。树叶像雨点儿般落在我们头上，伴随着一股难闻的气味儿。当然，有一阵我们吓蒙了。但当我们回过神儿来，看着那边，说：“天呐，那只小花豹会怎么想？她可能会把那声震耳欲聋的雷鸣和我们俩永远联系在一起。”其实，我们的担心是多余的。她从树丛中出来，径直走向我们，在我们旁边坐下，瑟瑟发抖。她背对着Dereck，四处张望。事实上，从那天起，她接纳了我们。因此，我们觉得，就是在那天，她真正获得了属于自己的名字。我们叫她“Legadema”，意思是“来自天空的闪电”。
en:BJ: Well we certainly did spend a lot of time with her —in fact, more time than even her mother did.When her mother would go off hunting,we would stay and film.And early on, a lightning bolt hit a tree20 paces away from us.It was frightening,and it showered us with leaves and a pungent smell.And of course, we were stunned for a while,but when we managed to get our wits about us,we looked at it and said, &quot;My gosh,what&#39;s going to happen with that little cub?She&#39;s probably going to forever associatethat deafening crash with us.&quot;Well, we needn&#39;t have worried.She came charging out of the thicket straight towards us,sat next to us, shivering,with her back towards Dereck, and looking out.And actually from that day on,she&#39;s been comfortable with us.So we felt that that daywas the day that she really earned her name.We called her Legadema,which means, &quot;light from the sky.&quot;
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:现在，我们已经在很多种动物身上发现了类似的个性，尤其是猫科动物。这是Eetwidomayloh,意思是“烈焰腾腾”。看到它的样子你就能了解，你知道——这就是它的特点。但是，只有贴近这些动物，和它们长期在一起，我们才可能真正接触并挖掘出它们的这些个性。
en:DJ: Now we&#39;ve found these individualismsin all sorts of animals,in particular in the cats.This particular one is called Eetwidomayloh,&quot;he who greets with fire,&quot;and you can just see that about him, you know — that&#39;s his character.But only by getting up close to these animalsand spending time with themcan we actually even reach outand dig out these personal characters that they have.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:BJ: 但是，在探索过程中，我们必须找寻非洲最荒野的地方。这里是博茨瓦纳的Okavango三角洲。是的，这里是沼泽地。我们就住在沼泽地的一个帐篷里。但是，我必须告诉你们，这里的每一天都是激动人心的。但同时，大多数时间，我们都提心吊胆，因为我们要开车涉水，在这片完全未知的领域。但我们确实在那里找寻、跟踪并拍摄这些标志性的猫科动物。
en:BJ: But through our investigation,we have to seek the wildest places in Africa.And right now this is in the Okavango Deltain Botswana.Yes, it is swamp. We live in the swamp in a tent,but I must tell you, every day is exhilarating.But also, our hearts are in our throatsa huge amount of the time,because we&#39;re driving through water,and it&#39;s an unknown territory.But we&#39;re really thereseeking and searching and filming the iconic cats.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:DJ: 其中一个大的发现就是，当然，每个人都知道猫科动物不喜欢水。所以，这对我们来说这的是一个重大发现。而想要有这个发现就必须逼迫自己，到疯子才会去的地方——顺便说以句，Beverly起了很大的敦促作用——就这样突破极限，深入沼泽，挑战汽车、逼迫自己。终于，我们发现，这些狮子比其他地方的狮子大15%，它们擅长在水中猎食非洲水牛。
en:DJ: Now one of the big things, of course,everybody knows that cats hate water,and so this was a real revelation for us.And we could only find this by pushing ourselves,by going where no sane person should go —not without some prompting, by the way, from Beverly —and just pushing the envelope,going out there, pushing our vehicle, pushing ourselves.But we&#39;ve managed to find that these lionsare 15 percent bigger than any others,and they specialize in hunting buffalo in the water.
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:BJ: 当然，另一个考验在于要知道什么时候该掉头转向。对此，我们并非总能把握好。尤其是这一天，我们严重低估了水深。我们越走越深，一直淹到了Dereck的胸口。随后，我们撞进一个很深的洼地，车子整个被淹没到水里。实际上，我们将价值200万美元的摄像器材浸没在水中。一同浸没的还有我们的骄傲，我不得不说，那次真的很严重，而且发动机抱缸了（基本等于报废）。
en:BJ: And then of course, the challengeis knowing when to turn around.We don&#39;t always get that right,and on this particular day,we seriously underestimated the depth.We got deeper and deeper,until it was at Dereck&#39;s chest-height.Well then we hit a deep depression,and we seriously submerged the vehicle.We actually managed to drowntwo million dollars&#39; worth of camera gear.We drowned our pride, I must tell you,which was really serious,and we seized the engine.
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:DJ: 当然，我们车上的其中一条规章是，谁把车开到水里，谁就下去和鳄鱼一起游泳。（观众笑声）你们也会注意到所有这些图片都是Beverly从顶角拍的——顺便说一句，是干燥的顶角。（观众笑声）但是所有我们陷入困境的地方确实都会有令人叹为观止的景象。这样的事情发生过不止一次。这些狮子朝我们走来，Beverly得以拍下绝佳的照片。
en:DJ: And of course, one of the rules that we have in the vehicleis that he who drowns the vehiclegets to swim with the crocodiles.(Laughter)You will notice also that all of these images hereare taken from the top angle by Beverly —the dry top angle, by the way.(Laughter)But all the places we get stuck in really have great views.And it wasn&#39;t a moment, and these lions came back towards us,and Beverly was able to get a great photograph.
时间： 5:22
zh-cn:BJ: 我们确实日夜努力，只为能够捕捉到独一无二的镜头。20年前，我们拍摄了一部影片，叫“永恒的敌人”。在这部影片中，我们捕捉到了两种动物——狮子和土狼——之间令人异常不安的行为。令人惊讶的是，这部电影竟然成为了异教狂热片。我们唯一能想到的理由就是，人们看到了自然界中残忍杀戮与黑帮火拼的相似之处。
en:BJ: But we truly dospend day and nighttrying to capture unique footage.And 20 years ago,we did a film called &quot;Eternal Enemies&quot;where we managed to capturethis unusual disturbing behavior across two species —lions and hyenas.And surprisingly, it became a cult film.And we can only work that outas people were seeing parallelsbetween the thuggish side of natureand gang warfare.
时间： 5:51
zh-cn:DJ: 真的很神奇，因为你能看到，这头雄狮确实如它名字Eetwidomayloh的含义一样，杀气腾腾。它盯上了这只土狼，准备猎杀它。（动物嚎叫）但我认为，这就是这部影片的目的所在，即所有的这些动物都有它们自己的个性和特点。而我们拍摄期间，不仅要挑战我们的底线，还需遵循一定的“交战规则”——我们不能干涉。这种行为已经存在了大约三、四、五百万年之久，我们不能突然站出来，说：“这样是错的，那样是对的。”但对我们来说，这往往不容易做到。
en:DJ: It was amazing, because you can see that this lionis doing exactly what his name,Eetwidomayloh, represents.He&#39;s focused on this hyena,and he is going to get it.(Animal sounds)But that&#39;s, I think, what this is all about,is that these individuals have these personalities and characters.But for us to get them, not only do we push ourselves,but we live by certain rules of engagement,which mean we can&#39;t interfere.This sort of behavior has been going onfor three, four, five million years,and we can&#39;t step in and say, &quot;That&#39;s wrong, and that&#39;s right.&quot;But that&#39;s not always easy for us.
时间： 6:31
zh-cn:BJ: 正如Dereck所说，我们必须经历很多极端情况——比如极端温度，夜晚挑战身体极限。睡眠不足相当严重。在很多时间里，我们处于临界状态。十年来，我们一直试图拍摄到狮子和大象在一起（的场景）——却从未成功过，直到这天晚上。我要告诉你们，对我来说，这是一个非常不安的夜晚。我泪流两颊，焦虑得瑟瑟发抖。但是，我知道这就是为了拍摄到以前从未有人目睹、也从未被记录下来的情景。我坚信，你们应该和我们一起看下去。
en:BJ: So, as Dereck says,we have to work through extremes —extreme temperatures, push ourselves at night.Sleep deprivation is extreme.We&#39;re on the edgethrough a large part of the time.But, for 10 years, we tried to capturelions and elephants together —and never ever manageduntil this particular night.And I have to tell youthat it was a disturbing night for me.I had tears rolling down my cheeks.I was shaking with anxiety,but I knew that [I had] to capture somethingthat had never been seen before, had never been documented.And I do believe you should stay with us.
时间： 7:12
zh-cn:DJ: 这些时刻的神奇之处——而这可能也是我们事业的精彩之处——就在于你从来不知道事情将会如何结束。很多人认为，事实上，死亡始于眼睛，而不是内心，不是肺部。而这就是人们放弃希望时的样子，或是任何生命放弃希望时的样子。你们可以看到，从这里开始了。这头大象，在狮子压倒性的优势面前，干脆放弃了希望。但是，在同样的情况下，你也可以重新燃起希望。所以，就在你认为一切行将结束时，另外一件事发生了，某种热情潜入你心，某种战斗意愿（浮出脑海）——这种坚强的意志我们都有，这头大象有，保护区有，大型猫科动物也有。任何生命都要靠这种坚强的意志去生存，去斗争，去冲破内心的关卡，继续前行。对我们来说，从许多方面来说，这头大象已经成为激励我们的一种象征，我们投入工作是的希望象征。
en:DJ: The amazing thing about these moments —and this is probably a highlight of our career —is that you never know how it&#39;s going to end.Many people believe, in fact,that death begins in the eyes, not in the heart,not in the lungs,and that&#39;s when people give up hope,or when any life form gives up hope.And you can see the start of it here.This elephant, against overwhelming odds,simply gives up hope.But by the same token,you can get your hope back again.So just when you think it&#39;s all over, something else happens,some spark gets into you,some sort of will to fight —that iron will that we all have,that this elephant has,that conservation has, that big cats have.Everything has that will to survive,to fight, to push through that mental barrierand to keep going.And for us, in many ways,this elephant has becomea symbol of inspiration for us,a symbol of that hope as we go forward in our work.
时间： 8:36
zh-cn:（观众掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 8:47
zh-cn:现在回到这只花豹。我们很长时间和这只花豹在一起，才得以熟悉她的个性和特点，可能我们和她的关系有些过于亲密了。可能我们认为理所当然可以如此，而她或许并不喜欢这样。夫妻一起工作时也是如此，需要说明的是，在越野车里，Beverly和我有着严格的地盘划分。Beverly坐的那边放着她全部的摄影器材，而另一边是我的地盘。这些分界对我们来说很重要。
en:Now back to the leopard.We were spending so much time with this leopardand getting to understand her individualism,her personal character,that maybe we were taking it a little bit far.We were perhaps taking her for granted,and maybe she didn&#39;t like that that much.This is about couples working together,and so I do need to say that within the vehiclewe have quite strict territories, Beverly and I.Beverly sits on the one sidewhere all her camera gear is,and I&#39;m on the other side where my space is.These are precious to us, these divides.
时间： 9:20
zh-cn:BJ: 但是，当这只小花豹看到我离开座位，爬到车后面拿照相器材时，她就像一只好奇的猫一样爬进来探索一番。这很不寻常，我们也非常感谢她对我们如此地信任。但与此同时，我们也很担心，如果她养成这样的习惯，跳到别人的车里，结果可能大不一样——她可能因此遭到射杀。因此，我们知道，我们必须迅速做出反应。我们想唯一能做而又不吓到她的方法就是试着发出像她妈妈那样的低声咆哮——伴着嘶嘶的声音。于是，Dereck打开了车内的热风扇——很有创意吧。
en:BJ: But when this little cub sawthat I had vacated my seatand climbed to the back to get some camera gear,she came in like a curious catto come and investigate.It was phenomenal, and we felt gratefulthat she trusted us to that extent.But at the same time, we were concernedthat if she created this as a habitand jumped into somebody else&#39;s car,it might not turn out the same way —she might get shot for that.So we knew we had to react quickly.And the only way we thought we couldwithout scaring heris to try and simulate a growl like her mother would make —a hiss and a sound.So Dereck turned on the heater fan in the car —very innovative.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:DJ: 这是我挽救这段婚姻的唯一途径，因为，你看，Beverly觉得自己被取代了。（观众笑声）但是，的的确确，这就是这只小花豹如何向我们展示她的独特个性。但是，我们绝对没有想到，在我们和她交往中接下来发生的事情，那是在她刚开始自己捕猎时。
en:DJ: It was the only way for me to save the marriage,because Beverly felt she was being replaced, you see.(Laughter)But really and truly, this was howthis little leopard was displayingher individual personality.But nothing prepared usfor what happened next in our relationship with her,when she started hunting.
时间：10:20
zh-cn:BJ: 对于这第一次捕猎，我们真的非常兴奋。我就像在观看一场毕业典礼。我们觉得自己好像是代理家长。当然，那时我们确信，她将可以（独立）生存下去了。但只有当我们看到那个小小的狒狒幼崽挂在它妈妈身上时，我们才意识到，一件非常特殊的事情正发生在Legadema身上。当然，小狒狒完全不知道发生了什么，它没有转身逃走。于是，接下来的几个小时内，我们看到的是极其特别的。这绝对让人觉得惊奇。她把它叼起来放到安全的地方，保护它不被土狼叼走。接下来的5个小时里，她一直照料着它。我们意识到，其实，我们并非什么都了解。大自然是如此神奇莫测，我们必须时刻保持开放的态度。
en:BJ: And on this first hunt, we truly were excited.It was like watching a graduation ceremony.We felt like we were surrogate parents.And of course, we knew nowthat she was going to survive.But only when we saw the tiny baby baboonclinging to the mother&#39;s furdid we realize that something very uniquewas taking place here with Legadema.And of course, the baby baboon was so innocent,it didn&#39;t turn and run.So what we watchedover the next couple of hourswas very unique.It was absolutely amazingwhen she picked it up to safety,protecting it from the hyena.And over the next five hours,she took care of it.We realized that we actually don&#39;t know everything,and that nature is so unpredictable,we have to be open at all times.
时间：11:15
zh-cn:DJ: 好吧，她是有点儿粗鲁。（观众笑声）但事实上，我们所看到的这一幕很有趣。因为她自己还是一只想要玩耍的小豹子，但同时她又是一个需要杀戮的捕食者，然而在某种程度上，与之矛盾的，因为她又是一位未来的母亲。她具有这种母性的本能，很像是一个小姑娘正在长成为一位成熟的女性。因此，这把我们带到一个全新的层次来理解她的个性。
en:DJ: Okay, so she was a little bit rough.(Laughter)But in fact,what we were seeing here was interesting.Because she is a cub wanting to play,but she was also a predator needing to kill,and yet conflicted in some way,because she was also an emerging mother.She had this maternal instinct,much like a young girl on her way to womanhood,and so this really took us to this new levelof understanding that personality.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:BJ: 当然，一整夜它们都靠在一起。它们在一起睡了好几个小时。但是，我不得不告诉大家——每一个人都会问：“那只小狒狒最后怎么样了？”它确实死了。我们怀疑它是死于冬夜的寒冷。
en:BJ: And of course, through the night, they lay together.They ended up sleeping for hours.But I have to tell you —everybody always asks, &quot;What happened to the baby baboon?&quot;It did die,and we suspect it was from the freezing winter nights.
时间：12:09
zh-cn:DJ: 到了这里，我认为我们有了一些非常坚定的信念——关于自然保护区存在的意义。我们必须面对这些独特的个性。我们必须带着尊重面对它们，赞美它们。于是，我们和国家地理频道一起发起了“大型猫科动物倡议”，将它在保护区内进行推广，以关爱我们喜爱的这些大型猫科动物——于是也有机会回顾一下，在过去的50年里我们在这些方面做得怎么样。Beverly和我刚出生时，大约有45万头狮子。而今天只有2万头。老虎的境遇也好不到哪去，从4万5千头锐减到大约3千头。
en:DJ: So at this stage, I guess,we had very, very firm ideason what conservation meant.We had to deal with these individual personalities.We had to deal with them with respectand celebrate them.And so we, with the National Geographic, formed the Big Cats Initiativeto march forward into conservation,taking care of the big cats that we loved —and then had an opportunity to look back over the last 50 yearsto see how well we had all collectively been doing.So when Beverly and I were born,there were 450,000 lions,and today there are 20,000.Tigers haven&#39;t fared any better —45,000down to maybe 3,000.
时间：12:49
zh-cn:BJ: 非洲猎豹的数量一路锐减，跌至1万2千头。花豹则从70万头迅速减少到仅仅5万头。尤其是在我们和Legadema在一起的这段时间，大约5年多——有1万头花豹被游猎猎手合法地射杀。这还不是这段时间内被杀死的所有花豹。偷猎的数量也很巨大，很可能也达到1万头。这绝对是不可持续的。我们仰慕它们，我们也畏惧它们。然而，作为人，我们想窃取它们的力量。曾经有段时间，只有国王才穿豹皮，但现在，所有仪式和典礼、传统医者和大臣们都在使用豹皮。当然，看看这只已被剥皮的狮爪，它诡异地让我想起人类的手。这很讽刺，因为狮爪的命运掌握在我们手中。
en:BJ: And then cheetahs have crashedall the way down to 12,000.Leopards have plummetedfrom 700,000down to a mere 50,000.Now in the extraordinary timethat we have worked with Legadema —which is really over a five-year period —10,000 leopards were legally shotby safari hunters.And that&#39;s not the only leopardsthat were being killed through that period.There&#39;s an immense amount of poaching as well,and so possibly the same amount.It&#39;s simply not sustainable.We admire them,and we fear them,and yet, as man, we want to steal their power.It used to be the timewhere only kings wore a leopard skin,but now throughout rituals and ceremonies,traditional healers and ministers.And of course, looking at this lion pawthat has been skinned,it eerily reminds meof a human hand,and that&#39;s ironic, because their fate is in our hands.
时间：13:52
zh-cn:DJ: 还有一个正在迅速发展的骨交易。南非刚刚向这个市场投放了一些狮骨。狮子和老虎的骨头看上去完全一样，因此很快地，狮骨产业将取代所有的虎骨。现在，我们面临一个真正的问题，没有比狮子的问题更严重的了，尤其是雄狮。所以，你们刚刚看到的，2万头狮子这个数字只是一个幌子，因为其中大约有3到4千头雄狮，实际上它们全部都感染了同样的疾病。我称之为自傲——我们人类的自傲。因为打猎这种运动，它的存在，我们都知道，却听之任之。而这很可能是因为我们以前从未像今天这样看待这件事情。
en:DJ: There&#39;s a burgeoning bone trade.South Africa just released some lion bones onto the market.Lion bones and tiger bones look exactly the same,and so in a stroke, the lion bone industryis going to wipe out all the tigers.So we have a real problem here,no more so than the lions do, the male lions.So the 20,000 lion figure that you just sawis actually a red herring,because there may be 3,000 or 4,000 male lions,and they all are actuallyinfected with the same disease.I call it complacency —our complacency.Because there&#39;s a sport, there&#39;s an activity going onthat we&#39;re all aware of, that we condone.And that&#39;s probably because we haven&#39;t seen itlike we are today.
时间：14:42
zh-cn:BJ: 还有，你们必须要了解，当一头雄狮被杀死时，整个狮群都被摧毁了。一头新来的雄狮会进入到该片领域，接管整个狮群。然后，当然，它首先会杀死所有的幼狮，可能还会杀死一些保护自己幼崽的母狮。因此，我们估算，大概要杀死20到30头狮子才能将一头雄狮挂到某个遥远地方的墙上。
en:BJ: And you have to knowthat, when a male lion is killed,it completely disrupts the whole pride.A new male comes into the areaand takes over the pride,and, of course, first of all kills all the cubsand possibly some of the females that are defending their cubs.So we&#39;ve estimatedthat between 20 [and] 30 lions are killedwhen one lion is hanging on a wallsomewhere in a far-off place.
时间：15:09
zh-cn:DJ: 因此，我们的研究表明，这些狮子是至关重要的。它们对栖息地来说是极重要的。如果它们消失了，整个非洲的生态系统都会随之消失。非洲每年可获得价值800亿美元的生态旅游收入。所以，这不仅仅是在关心狮子，也是在关心非洲的社群。如果它们消失了，那所有这些都完了。但是，我在更多方面的担心是，当我们与自然脱钩，当我们从灵性上与这些动物脱钩时，我们就失去了希望，失去了精神上的联系，失去了我们的人格，而正是这内在于我们的东西，使我们保持着与这颗星球的联系。
en:DJ: So what our investigations have shownis that these lions are essential.They&#39;re essential to the habitat.If they disappear,whole ecosystems in Africa disappear.There&#39;s an 80-billion-dollar-a-yearecotourism revenue stream into Africa.So this is not just a concern about lions;it&#39;s a concern about communities in Africa as well.If they disappear, all of that goes away.But what I&#39;m more concerned about in many waysis that, as we de-link ourselves from nature,as we de-link ourselves spirituallyfrom these animals,we lose hope,we lose that spiritual connection,our dignity, that thing within usthat keeps us connected to the planet.
时间：15:55
zh-cn:BJ: 所以，你们必须了解，请看着这些狮子和豹子的眼睛，这全是批判性的警醒。所以，我们要做的，就是在2月份，将发布一部纪录片，叫做“最后的狮子”。而“最后的狮子”恰恰就是现在正在发生的事实。这就是我们目前所处的情形——最后的狮子。这就是说，如果我们不采取行动做点儿什么，大型猫科动物将在这些平原上彻底消失。其后果就是，其余的一切也将随之消亡。很简单，如果我们不能够保护它们，接下来，我们的工作就是要保护我们自己了。
en:BJ: So you have to know, looking into the eyesof lions and leopards right now,it is all about critical awareness.And so what we are doing,in February, we&#39;re bringing out a film called &quot;The Last Lion,&quot;and &quot;The Last Lion&quot; is exactlywhat is happening right now.That is the situation we&#39;re in —the last lions.That is, if we don&#39;t take action and do something,these plains will be completely devoidof big cats,and then, in turn, everything else will disappear.And simply, if we can&#39;t protect them,we&#39;re going to have a job protecting ourselves as well.
时间：16:30
zh-cn:DJ: 而事实上，我们所谈论的，也就是我们依此而生活的最根本的东西——保护区的意义就在于尊重与赞美——这很可能是本质的东西；那是它真正需要的东西。我们需要它。作为男人和女人，作为一个社群，同时作为这个星球的一部分，我们彼此尊重彼此赞美，我们要将它延续下去。
en:DJ: And in fact, that original thing that we spoke aboutand designed our lives by —that conservation was all about respectand celebration —is probably true. That&#39;s really what it needs.We need it. We respect and celebrate each otheras a man and a woman, as a communityand as part of this planet,and we need to continue that.
时间：16:52
zh-cn:至于Legadema？我们可以告诉大家，事实上，我们做外祖父母了（Legadema已经升级为母亲了）。
en:And Legadema?Well we can report, in fact,that we&#39;re grandparents.
时间：16:58
zh-cn:（观众笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：17:00
zh-cn:BJ/DJ: 非常感谢大家。
en:BJ/DJ: Thank you very much.
时间：17:02
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
