时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我将向大家介绍一种极其绿色的理念，这一理念是在俄亥俄州克利夫兰的美国航空航天局格伦研究中心形成的在介绍之前，先让我们来回顾一下绿色环保的定义因为很多人都有不同的理解绿色环保，是通过具有环境和社会意识的途径生产的产品现在有很多东西都号称绿色环保那它到底是什么意思呢？我们用三个指标来确定绿色环保第一个指标：是否可持续？意思是，你在为未来或子孙后代保留用度吗它可替换吗？它是否与如今使用的有所不同？又或者是，它比传统的用法是否产生更少的碳排放量？第三点：它可再生吗？它是地球的再生资源吗？像太阳，风和水？
en:What I&#39;m going to do is,I&#39;m going to explain to youan extreme green conceptthat was developedat NASA&#39;s Glenn Research Centerin Cleveland, Ohio.But before I do that, we have to go overthe definition of what green is,&#39;cause a lot of us have adifferent definition of it.Green. The product is created throughenvironmentally and sociallyconscious means.There&#39;s plenty of things thatare being called green now.What does it actually mean?We use three metrics to determine green.The first metric is: Is it sustainable?Which means, are you preservingwhat you are doing for future useor for future generations?Is it alternative? Is it differentthan what is being used today,or does it have a lower carbon footprintthan what&#39;s used conventionally?And three: Is it renewable?Does it come from Earth&#39;snatural replenishing resources,such as sun, wind and water?
时间： 1:09
zh-cn:我在NASA的任务就是开发新一代航空燃料极度绿色环保，为什么是航空呢？航空领域耗费比其他领域加起来还要多的燃料我们必须找到替代物这也是一个国家航空学的指令国家航空学的目标之一就是开发新一代燃料，生物燃料用国内安全的环保能源如今，为了突破这种局面我们也要达到三大指标事实上，极度绿色环保对我们来说也是三大指标的综合所以你能看到那里的加号我得说明一下所以还有 GRC 的三大原则这也是另一个指标世界上 97% 的水都是咸水我们用咸水如何？把它和第三点结合不要用耕地因为农作物已经在上面生长了而耕地在地球上是十分稀缺的第二点：不要和粮食作物抢地这是一种已经存在的本质它们不需要再次占领土地最后，我们在这个地球上拥有的最宝贵的资源就是淡水，所以不要使用淡水如果世界上 97.5% 的水是咸水2.5%的是淡水，而且人类可用的淡水还不到0.5%但 60% 的人靠1% 存活
en:Now, my task at NASA is to developthe next generation of aviation fuels.Extreme green. Why aviation?The field of aviation usesmore fuel than just aboutevery other combined. Weneed to find an alternative.Also it&#39;s a nationalaeronautics directive.One of the national aeronauticsgoals is to developthe next generation of fuels, biofuels,using domestic and safe,friendly resources.Now, combating that challengewe have to also meetthe big three metric —Actually, extreme greenfor us is all three together;that&#39;s why you see the plusthere. I was told to say that.So it has to be the big three atGRC. That&#39;s another metric.Ninety-seven percent of theworld&#39;s water is saltwater.How about we use that?Combine that with number three.Do not use arable land.Because crops are alreadygrowing on that landthat&#39;s very scarce around the world.Number two: Don&#39;t compete with food crops.That&#39;s already a well establishedentity, they don&#39;t need another entry.And lastly the most preciousresource we have on this Earthis fresh water. Don&#39;t use fresh water.If 97.5 percentof the world&#39;s water is saltwater,2.5 percent is fresh water.Less than a half percentof that is accessible for human use.But 60 percent of the populationlives within that one percent.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:所以，我得极度环保地解决我的问题而且要达到三个指标女士们先生们欢迎来到“绿色实验室研究设施”这是一个用盐生植物致力于新一代研发航空燃料的设施盐生植物以一种亲盐植物大多数植物不喜欢盐，但盐生植物是亲盐的我们也用野草我们也用藻类植物我们的实验室有一个优势，就是在过去的两年有3600名访客这有什么可炫耀的？因为我们在做一些很特别的事
en:So, combating my problem was,now I have to be extreme greenand meet the big three.Ladies and gentlemen,welcome to the GreenLab Research Facility.This is a facility dedicatedto the next generationof aviation fuels using halophytes.A halophyte is a salt-tolerating plant.Most plants don&#39;t like salt,but halophytes tolerate salt.We also are using weedsand we are also using algae.The good thing about our lab is, we&#39;ve had3,600 visitors in the last two years.Why do you think that&#39;s so?Because we are on to something special.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:所以下面的图片是“绿色实验室”右边的图片就是藻类植物如果你在从事新一代的航空燃料，藻类植物是个可行的选择我们现在有很多资金我们有一个把藻类做成燃料的项目我们种植有两种藻类一种是你们在这里看到的封闭式光生物反应器你们在另一边看到的就是我们的物种我们现在在用一种叫二形栅藻的物种我们在NASA的工作就是把试验性的和计算性的拿出来再按较好的比例混合提供给封闭式光生物反应器现在封闭式光生物反应器的问题是：他们价格不菲，他们是自动化的很难大规模采购那么他们广泛使用什么呢？我们用开放式水塘系统目前在世界上人们用这种跑道设计来种植藻类如图，看起来就像带桨的椭圆，而且混配得还不错但当它来到最后一步时我称之为第四步——它就停滞了我们其实有一个办法在“绿色实验室”里，在我们的开放式水塘系统中我们用自然界的产物：声波我们在开放式水塘系统运用了声波技术我们有95%的混合，所以相比封闭式光生物反应器我们的脂含量更高这是相当了不起的
en:So, in the lower you seethe GreenLab obviously,and on the right handside you&#39;ll see algae.If you are into the businessof the next generationof aviation fuels, algaeis a viable option,there&#39;s a lot of funding right now,and we have an algae to fuels program.There&#39;s two types of algae growing.One is a closed photobioreactorthat you see here,and what you see on the otherside is our species —we are currently using a speciescalled Scenedesmus dimorphus.Our job at NASA is to take theexperimental and computationaland make a better mixing forthe closed photobioreactors.Now the problems with closedphotobioreactors are:They are quite expensive,they are automated,and it&#39;s very difficultto get them in large scale.So on large scale what do they use?We use open pond systems.Now, around the worldthey are growing algae,with this racetrack designthat you see here. Looks like an oval witha paddle wheel and mixes really well,but when it gets around the last turn,which I call turn four — it&#39;s stagnant.We actually have a solution for that.In the GreenLab in our open pond systemwe use something that happensin nature: waves.We actually use wave technologyon our open pond systems.We have 95 percent mixingand our lipid content is higherthan a closed photobioreactor system,which we think is significant.
时间： 4:45
zh-cn:但是，藻类有一个缺点就是价格昂贵那么有没有办法低价地生产藻类呢？答案是：有的方法和盐生植物一样就是：气候适应在我们的“绿色实验室”里我们有六个原生态系统从淡水到咸水都有我们做的：我们拿一个有潜力的物种从淡水开始我们增加一点盐所以这里第二个水槽会和巴西的生态系统一样——就在甘蔗地旁边你就能看到我们的作物——下一个水槽是非洲，再下一个是亚利桑那州再下一个是加州再下一个是加州或公海我们设法得出一种单一的物种它可以在世界任何地方存活包括荒瘠的沙漠我们目前还挺成功的
en:There is a drawback to algae,however: It&#39;s very expensive.Is there a way to producealgae inexpensively?And the answer is: yes.We do the same thingwe do with halophytes,and that is: climatic adaptation.In our GreenLab we havesix primary ecosystemsthat range from freshwaterall the way to saltwater.What we do: We take a potentialspecies, we start at freshwater,we add a little bit more salt,when the second tank herewill be the same ecosystem as Brazil —right next to the sugar canefields you can have our plants —the next tank represents Africa,the next tank represents Arizona,the next tank represents Florida,and the next tank representsCalifornia or the open ocean.What we are trying to do is tocome up with a single speciesthat can survive anywhere in theworld, where there&#39;s barren desert.We are being very successful so far.
时间： 5:44
zh-cn:现在，问题之一就是如果你是一个农场主你有五个要素才能成功：你需要种子你需要土壤，你需要水，还需要阳光最后一个就是肥料大部分人用化学肥料，但你知道吗？我们不用化学肥料等等！我刚在你们的“绿色实验室”看到很多植被，肥料是必需的呀信不信由你，在我们的盐水生态系统分析报告中我们需要的 80% 都来自水槽剩下的 20% 是氮和磷我们有纯天然的解决办法：鱼我们不是把鱼杀了丢进去我们用鱼的排泄物事实上，我们用淡水帆鳍鲈从淡水到盐水生态系统中我们都用了气候适应技术淡水帆鳍鲈：便宜，他们热衷繁殖他们热衷上厕所（排泄）他们上厕所上得越多我们得到的肥料就越多我们的日子就更红火信不信由你需要注意的是我们用沙子作为土壤普通的沙滩沙子，变成化石的珊瑚
en:Now, here&#39;s one of the problems.If you are a farmer, you need five thingsto be successful: You need seeds,you need soil, you needwater and you need sun,and the last thing that youneed is fertilizer.Most people use chemical fertilizers.But guess what?We do not use chemical fertilizer.Wait a second! I just saw lots of greeneryin your GreenLab. You have to use fertilizer.Believe it or not, in our analysisof our saltwater ecosystems80 percent of what we needare in these tanks themselves.The 20 percent that&#39;s missingis nitrogen and phosphorous.We have a natural solution: fish.No we don&#39;t cut up the fishand put them in there.Fish waste is what we use.As a matter of factwe use freshwater mollies, that we&#39;veused our climatic adaptation techniquefrom freshwater all the way to seawater.Freshwater mollies: cheap,they love to make babies,and they love to go to the bathroom.And the more they go to thebathroom, the more fertilizer we get,the better off we are, believe it or not.It should be noted that we usesand as our soil,regular beach sand. Fossilized coral.
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:所以很多人问我：“你们是怎么开始的？”嗯，我们是从我们称之为室内生物燃料实验室开始的这是一个幼苗实验室我们有26种不同种类的盐生植物有五种获得了我们的认可我们在这里做的——其实它应该被称为“死亡实验室”因为我们尝试去弄死这些幼苗让他们变得更坚强——然后我们得出了这个“绿色实验室”你在下面这个角落看到的是废水养殖植物实验我们种植的是一种大型海藻我稍后会讲最后的图，其实是我在实验室里工作目的是让大家知道我是有在工作的我并非只是告诉大家我做了什么这是些植物物种弗吉尼亚盐角草它是神奇的植物我超爱这种植物我们去哪都能看到它从缅因（美国一个州）一直到加州，到处都有我们都喜欢这种植物第二种是毕氏盐角草在地球上十分罕见是我们目前拥有的含脂量最高的植物但有一个缺点：它太短了然后是齐墩果树是我们拥有的最大或最高的植物用自然选择或自适性生物我们试图去做的——就是把三者结合在一起培养出一种多脂高产的植物接下来，当飓风在德拉华湾（美国一地方）大加肆虐时——黄豆地被摧毁了——所以我们萌生这么一个想法：能否有一种植物能在德拉华进行土地改良的？答案是肯定的它叫做海滨锦葵，学名Kosteletzkya virginica你快速读五遍试试看这是一种100%可用的植物种子：生物燃料；剩下的：畜牧饲料我们已经用了10年了，效果显著然后说到硬毛藻属这是一种大型藻类喜好大量的营养如果你从事水族馆行业你就会知道我们用它来清理脏水池这种物种对我们很重要它们的属性和塑料很相似我们目前在尝试将这种大型藻类转化成生物塑料如果我们成功了，我们将会颠覆整个塑料行业
en:So a lot of people ask me,&quot;How did you get started?&quot;Well, we got started in what wecall the indoor biofuels lab.It&#39;s a seedling lab. We have 26different species of halophytes,and five are winners. What we do here is —actually it should be calleda death lab, &#39;cause we try tokill the seedlings, make them rough —and then we come to the GreenLab.What you see in the lower corneris a wastewater treatment plant experimentthat we are growing, a macro-algaethat I&#39;ll talk about in a minute.And lastly, it&#39;s me actually workingin the lab to prove to you I do work,I don&#39;t just talk about what I do.Here&#39;s the plant species.Salicornia virginica.It&#39;s a wonderful plant. I love that plant.Everywhere we go we see it. It&#39;sall over the place, from Maineall the way to California.We love that plant.Second is Salicornia bigelovii. Verydifficult to get around the world.It is the highest lipidcontent that we have,but it has a shortcoming: It&#39;s short.Now you take europaea, which is thelargest or the tallest plant that we have.And what we are trying to dowith natural selection or adaptivebiology — combine all threeto make a high-growth, high-lipid plant.Next, when a hurricane decimated theDelaware Bay — soybean fields gone —we came up with an idea:Can you have a plantthat has a land reclamation positivein Delaware? And the answer is yes.It&#39;s called seashore mallow.Kosteletzkya virginica —say that five times fast if you can.This is a 100 percent usable plant. Theseeds: biofuels. The rest: cattle feed.It&#39;s there for 10 years;it&#39;s working very well.Now we get to Chaetomorpha.This is a macro-algae that lovesexcess nutrients. If youare in the aquarium industryyou know we use itto clean up dirty tanks.This species is so significant to us.The properties are very close to plastic.We are trying right now to convertthis macro-algae into a bioplastic.If we are successful, we willrevolutionize the plastics industry.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:所以，我们有“种子到燃料”这个项目我们需要对我们拥有的生物量有所作为我们用气体色谱分析提取法，脂肪最佳化法，等其他方法因为我们的目标是实现新一代航天燃料，航天器具，以及其他东西目前我们说了水和燃料但这个过程中，我们发现了盐角草有趣的一面它是一种食品我们说值得传播的思想，对吧？这个怎么样：在撒哈拉以南非洲地区大海旁边，咸水荒瘠沙漠里，我们那这种植物将之种植，一半用作食物，一半用作燃料我们可以实现这一想法，而且开销不大你可以看到在德国的一个温室里他们把它当做健康食品出售这是收成的，中间这个是一盘虾，正在腌制我得跟你们说个笑话盐角草也被称为海蓬子咸水芦笋，以及腌大麻所以中间那张就是我们在腌制腌大麻哦我还以为这个挺搞笑的（笑声）底部这个是水手的芥菜这是有依据的这是一种合逻辑的零食你有芥菜你又是一个水手，然后你看到盐生植物你会把它们混合在一起配上饼干，就成了绝佳的零食最后，盐角草配上大蒜，就是我喜欢的搭配所以，水，燃料，和食物
en:So, we have a seed to fuel program.We have to do something withthis biomass that we have.And so we do G.C. extraction, lipidoptimization, so on and so forth,because our goal really is to come up withthe next generation of aviation fuels,aviation specifics, so on and so forth.So far we talked about water and fuel,but along the way we found outsomething interesting about Salicornia:It&#39;s a food product.So we talk about ideasworth spreading, right?How about this: In sub-SaharanAfrica, next to the sea, saltwater,barren desert,how about we take that plant,plant it, half use for food,half use for fuel.We can make that happen, inexpensively.You can seethere&#39;s a greenhouse in Germanythat sells it as a health food product.This is harvested, and in the middle hereis a shrimp dish, and it&#39;s being pickled.So I have to tell you a joke.Salicornia is known as sea beans,saltwater asparagus and pickle weed.So we are pickling pickleweed in the middle.Oh, I thought it was funny. (Laughter)And at the bottom is seaman&#39;s mustard.It does make sense,this is a logical snack. You have mustard,you are a seaman, you see thehalophyte, you mix it together,it&#39;s a great snack with some crackers.And last, garlic with Salicornia,which is what I like.So, water, fuel and food.
时间：11:09
zh-cn:没有“绿色实验室”的团队，这一切都不复存在就像迈阿密热火（NBA球队）的三巨头我们NASA GRC也有三巨头那个是我，我们无所畏惧的领队 Bob Hendricks还有 Arnon Chait 博士“绿色实验室”的顶梁柱是学生在过去的两年里我们有35名学生他们来自世界各地，齐聚工作于“绿色实验室”我的部门部长经常说：“你有一个绿色的宇宙。”我说；“我认可你的观点，因为我们在培养新一代的绿色环保思想家这一点很重要。“
en:None of this is possiblewithout the GreenLab team.Just like the Miami Heat has the bigthree, we have the big three at NASA GRC.That&#39;s myself, professor Bob Hendricks,our fearless leader, and Dr. Arnon Chait.The backbone of the GreenLab is students.Over the last two yearswe&#39;ve had 35 different studentsfrom around the world working at GreenLab.As a matter fact my division chief saysa lot, &quot;You have a green university.&quot;I say, &quot;I&#39;m okay with that,&#39;cause we are nurturingthe next generation of extremegreen thinkers, which is significant.&quot;
时间：11:47
zh-cn:小结一下，我为大家展示了什么是我们得出的解决食物，燃料和水的全球性方案这些方案还有待完善我们用电所以有这个一个方案——我们这里用的是清洁能源所以我们有两个风力涡轮机连接到”绿色实验室“接下来我们可能会增加四到五个我们还用了一些有趣的东西——在 NASA的格林研究中心，有一个太阳电池板场地已经停用15年了在我的一些电子工程同时的帮助下我们意识到它们还是可以使用的所以我们现在把它们翻新一下大约30天后它们就可以连接到”绿色实验室“了
en:So, in first summary I presentedto you what we thinkis a global solutionfor food, fuel and water.There&#39;s something missing to be complete.Clearly we use electricity.We have a solution for you —We&#39;re using clean energy sources here.So, we have two wind turbinesconnected to the GreenLab,we have four or five morehopefully coming soon.We are also using somethingthat is quite interesting —there is a solar array field atNASA&#39;s Glenn Research Center,hasn&#39;t been used for 15 years.Along with some of my electricalengineering colleagues,we realized that they are still viable,so we are refurbishing them right now.In about 30 days or so they&#39;ll beconnected to the GreenLab.
时间：12:42
zh-cn:你会看到红色和黄色的框框是因为很多人觉得 NASA 的人周六不上班这张照片是周六拍的旁边没车，但你能看到我的卡车是黄色的我周六是上班的（笑声）这再次证明了我是有认真工作的因为大部分都知道一分耕耘一分收获这里面有一个概念：我们用”绿色实验室“是为了俄亥俄州的一个智能电网概念的微电网试验台我们有能力去实施而且我认为它能成功所以，“绿色实验室研究设施”今天为大家展示了一个自我可持续发展可再生能源生态系统我们真的，真的希望这个概念能在全世界传播开来我们认为我们有解决食物、水、燃料，和能源的方法它极度绿色环保，可持续发展，可替换，以及可再生也符合 GRC 的三大指标：不用可开垦的耕地，不和其他粮食作物竞争最重要的是，不用淡水
en:And the reason why you seered, red and yellow, isa lot of people think NASA employeesdon&#39;t work on Saturday —This is a picture taken on Saturday.There are no cars around, but you see my truckin yellow. I work on Saturday. (Laughter)This is a proof to you that I&#39;m working.&#39;Cause we do what it takes to get thejob done, most people know that.Here&#39;s a concept with this:We are using the GreenLabfor a micro-grid test bedfor the smart grid concept in Ohio.We have the ability to do that,and I think it&#39;s going to work.So, GreenLab Research Facility.A self-sustainable renewable energyecosystem was presented today.We really, really hope thisconcept catches on worldwide.We think we have a solution for food,water, fuel and now energy. Complete.It&#39;s extreme green, it&#39;s sustainable,alternative and renewableand it meets the big three at GRC:Don&#39;t use arable land, don&#39;tcompete with food crops,and most of all, don&#39;t use fresh water.
时间：14:03
zh-cn:所以我经常被问：”你在实验室里是做什么的？“我通常会说：”不关你事，这就是我在实验室里做的事。“（笑声）信不信由你我做这个项目的首要目标就是我想要拯救这个世界
en:So I get a lot of questions about,&quot;What are you doing in that lab?&quot;And I usually say, &quot;None of your business,that&#39;s what I&#39;m doing in the lab.&quot; (Laughter)And believe it or not, my number one goalfor working on this project isI want to help save the world.
