时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我要带大家去的第一个地方是一个天然的深渊，许多人相信它将会被证明为世界最深之渊。我说相信是因为这个探索过程还未结束。明年有几个很大的探险活动正在策划中关于这个我会做些介绍
en:First place I&#39;d like to take youis what many believe will be the world&#39;s deepest natural abyss.And I say believe because this process is still ongoing.Right now there are major expeditions being planned for next yearthat I&#39;ll talk a little bit about.
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:现在,变化之一是自从儒勒•凡尔纳在科幻小说里描绘了地底世界的样子后,在过去的150年里，科技已使我们能够到达一些地方这些地方是我们先前完全不知且不能想象的。而我们现在能相对安全得深入地球几千米。沿途我们发现了奇异的深渊和岩洞。那些岩洞大得异乎寻常，一眼望去能看到几百米。当我们到了这样的岩洞时，我们经常会在那待二至四个月，我们的队伍规模小时二三十人，大时有一百五十人。
en:One of the things that&#39;s changed here,in the last 150 years since Jules Vernehad great science-fiction concepts of what the underworld was like,is that technology has enabled us to go to these placesthat were previously completely unknown and speculated about.We can now descend thousands of meters into the Earth with relative impunity.Along the way we&#39;ve discovered fantastic abysses and chambers so largethat you can see for hundreds of meterswithout a break in the line of sight.When you go on a thing like this, we can usually be in the fieldfor anywhere from two to four months,with a team as small as 20 or 30, to as big as 150.
时间： 1:07
zh-cn:许多人问我你们选什么样的人参加这样的项目？我们的筛选过程不是像NASA(美国航空航天局)那么严格，但它又是周详的。我们寻找的是有能力胜任此工作，能严格约束自己，耐力长久而且体力充沛的人。如果你想知道的话，这是我们的体能测试。（笑）但我们也重视团队精神和善于解决人际矛盾的能力。这些能力， 在人们身处僻壤
en:And a lot of people ask me, you know,what kind of people do you get for a project like this?While our selection processis not as rigorous as NASA, it&#39;s nonetheless thorough.We&#39;re looking for competence, discipline, endurance, and strength.In case you&#39;re wondering, this is our strength test.(Laughter)But we also value esprit de corpsand the ability to diplomatically resolve inter-personal conflictwhile under great stress in remote locations.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:压力巨大到远远超过人类耐力极限的时候尤其重要。从洞口看，这绝不像个商业旅游的山洞。你看到的是二号营地，它搭在J2,不是K2(世界第二高峰）,而是J2.在那里我们大约距出口两天路程。它就像一场反方向的高海拔登山之旅，不同的是你用绳子往下走这是让人们在这种地下环境中稍微觉得舒服些要不然周围就是完全潮湿，寒冷而且漆黑的地方了。我应该提一下，你在这儿看着的每一件东西都是费了很大劲儿人为照亮的。否则，在这些地方全都是黑的。
en:We have already gone far beyond the limits of human endurance.From the entrance, this is nothing like a commercial cave.You&#39;re looking at Camp Two in a place called J2, not K2, but J2.We&#39;re roughly two days from the entrance at that point.And it&#39;s kind of like a high altitude mountaineering trip in reverse,except that you&#39;re now running a string of these things down.The idea is to try to provide some measure of physical comfortwhile you&#39;re down there, otherwise in damp, moist, cold conditions in utterly dark places.I should mention that everything you&#39;re seeing here, by the way,is artificially illuminated at great effort.Otherwise it is completely dark in these places.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:你越深入，就越要费力气抵抗地下水问题。它基本上就像是一棵向下吸水的树。最终你会到达了一个可怕的危险的地方不幸的是这些幻灯片并不能充分显示（这些地方有多么可怕）。所以我找了一个1980年代末拍的小短片。这是在墨西哥瓦乌拉特高原。（视频）现在我要提醒你们这里所用的技术已经过时而且危险。现今除非是为了拍电影，否则我们不会这样做。（笑声）
en:The deeper you go, the more you run into a conflict with water.It&#39;s basically like a tree collecting water coming down.And eventually you get to places where it is formidable and dangerousand unfortunately slides just don&#39;t do justice.So I&#39;ve got a very brief clip here that was taken in the late 1980s.So descend into Huautla Plateau in Mexico.(Video)Now I have to tell you that the techniques being shown hereare obsolete and dangerous.We would not do this today unless we were doing it for film.(Laughter)
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:同样地，我还要说我们在底下从未见过象去年新出的大量好莱坞电影中的怪兽，至少没见到吃人的怪兽。如果有地下怪兽，那一定是心中的能致命的孤寂一旦你从最近的洞口深入三天，这种孤寂感就开始侵袭队中的成员
en:Along that same line, I have to tell youthat with the spate of Hollywood movies that came out last year,we have never seen monsters underground —at least the kind that eat you.If there is a monster underground,it is the crushing psychological remotenessthat begins to hit every member of the teamonce you cross about three days inbound from the nearest entrance.
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:明年我要带领一支国际队伍去J2.我们要从地下2600米处大约8600多英尺之下—开始拍摄。那个地方离洞口30千米处。先头部队将会在地下向前不停地推进30天。我想已经很久没有象这样的探险活动了。
en:Next year I&#39;ll be leading an international team to J2.We&#39;re going to be shooting from minus 2,600 meters —that&#39;s a little over 8,600 feet down —at 30 kilometers from the entrance.The lead crews will be underground for pushing 30 days straight.I don&#39;t think there&#39;s been a mission like that in a long time.
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:最后，如果你一直向下深入这些洞穴，概率上说你很可能进入一个有褶皱的充满水的地方当以前找这些地方时人们会在地图上标注其为吸管终端。这个词我记得很清楚。因为有两个原因第一，它是我摇滚乐队的名字，第二，是因为这些地方的挑战迫使我变成了一个发明者。而且从那以后，我们研发了好几代许多用于探索类似地方的小仪器。
en:Eventually, if you keep going down in these things,probability says that you&#39;re going to run into a place like this.It&#39;s a place where there&#39;s a fold in the geologic stratumthat collects water and fills to the roof.And when you used to find these things,they would put a label on a map that said terminal siphon.Now I remember that term really well for two reasons.Number one, it&#39;s the name of my rock band, and second,is because the confrontation of these thingsforced me to become an inventor.And we&#39;ve since gone on to developmany generations of gadgets for exploring places like this.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:这是某种闭合的维持生命的仪器你现在可以用它在水下水平前行几千米其应用范围深至水下200米处。当你在水下行走时，感觉有点儿像EVA(太空行走)，像是进行太空行走，但是要走的更远，冒的风险也更大。这让你想办法如何设计你的器械使它安全地走得更远。
en:This is some life-support equipment closed-cycle.And you can use that now to go for many kilometers horizontallyunderwater and to depths of 200 meters straight down underwater.When you do this kind of stuff it&#39;s like doing EVA.It&#39;s like doing extra-vehicular activity in space,but at much greater distances, and at much greater physical peril.So it makes you think about how to design your equipmentfor long range, away from a safe haven.
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:这是国家地理电影1999年拍的一些片段
en:Here&#39;s a clip from a National Geographic moviethat came out in 1999.
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:（视频）旁白：探索是一个物理过程它让你涉足人类从未涉及的地方。这是地球上完全不为人知的最后一点儿金地。只有极少的人能够亲历。
en:(Video) Narrator: Exploration is a physical processof putting your foot in places where humans have never stepped before.This is where the last little nugget of totally unknown territory remains on this planet.To experience it is a privilege.
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:比尔•斯通：那电影取景于佛罗里达的瓦库拉泉。这部电影有几件事值得注意：你所见的每种设备1999年前都不存在。它们是在两年内发明的，并且用于实际探索项目。你们在这里见到的这个是电子墙体测绘仪—它制出了世界上第一个山洞的三维地图，那是在瓦库拉泉水下正是这小仪器不经意地开启了通往另一个世界的门。
en:Bill Stone: That was taken in Wakulla Springs, Florida.Couple of things to note about that movie. Every piece of equipmentthat you saw in there did not exist before 1999.It was developed within a two-year period and used on actual exploratory projects.This gadget you see right here was called the digital wall mapper,and it produced the first three-dimensional map anybody has ever doneof a cave, and it happened to be underwater in Wakulla Springs.It was that gadget that serendipitously opened a doorto another unexplored world.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:这是木卫二。卡罗琳•波科尔前几天提到另一个叫做恩克拉多斯的行星。研究行星的科学家相信那里是最有可能探索到有地球之外的初级生命的地方之一，生命就存在在恩克拉多斯行星的大洋之下。对于那些从未看过这个故事的人来说，几年前吉姆•卡梅隆（泰坦尼克，阿凡达导演）拍出过精彩的IMAX(巨幕)电影名叫《深海异形》这是片中的一个小片段—
en:This is Europa.Carolyn Porco mentioned another one called Enceladus the other day.This is one of the places where planetary scientistsbelieve there is a highest probability of the detectionof the first life off earth in the ocean that exists below there.For those who have never seen this story,Jim Cameron produced a really wonderful IMAX moviecouple of years ago, called &quot;Aliens of the Deep.&quot;There was a brief clip —
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:（视频）旁白：探索木卫二冰底的任务将会成为机器人的终极挑战。木卫二很远，即使用光速指令到达飞行器也要花一个多小时。必须非常聪明才能避免各种冒险找到一个好的冰面降落现在我们还得穿过冰层。需要一个融化器。它基本上就是一个核能加热鱼雷。冰层可能有3至16英里 (5 到 26 公里）深。一周接一周，融化探头靠着自身重量下沉穿过远古的冰层，直至最后……当你到达洋面你将要做什么？你需要个AUV，一个自行式水下航行器。它必须很聪明，能够自己导航在陌生的外星球的大洋里能够自己做决定。
en:(Video) Narrator: A mission to explore under the ice of Europawould be the ultimate robotic challenge.Europa is so far away that even at the speed of light,it would take more than an hour for the command just to reach the vehicle.It has to be smart enough to avoid terrain hazardsand to find a good landing site on the ice.Now we have to get through the ice.You need a melt probe.It&#39;s basically a nuclear-heated torpedo.The ice could be anywhere from three to 16 miles deep.Week after week, the melt probe will sink of its own weightthrough the ancient ice, until finally —Now, what are you going to do when you reach the surface of that ocean?You need an AUV, an autonomous underwater vehicle.It needs to be one smart puppy, able to navigateand make decisions on its own in an alien ocean.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:比尔•斯通：吉姆公映这部电影时并不知道六个月前NASA(美国宇航局)已拨款给我集合的一个团队去研发木卫二自行式水下航行器的原型。我花了三年的工程会议，设计和系统整合，设计了DEPTHX—深水热源探索仪。就像电影描述的，这是一个灵敏的小东西它有96个传感器，36台车携式电脑十万条自主行为指令，携带着十多公斤的炸药。
en:BS: What Jim didn&#39;t know when he released that moviewas that six months earlier NASA had funded a team I assembledto develop a prototype for the Europa AUV.I mean, I cut through three years of engineering meetings, designand system integration, and introduced DEPTHX —Deep Phreatic Thermal Explorer.And as the movie says, this is one smart puppy.It&#39;s got 96 sensors, 36 onboard computers,100,000 lines of behavioral autonomy code,packs more than 10 kilos of TNT in electrical onboard equivalent.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:这是目的地，墨西哥北部萨卡通石灰岩洞的世界最深温泉。有人曾经探索到292米深处。再深就没人知道是什么样了。探索它是深水热源探测仪的任务之一。
en:This is the target site,the world&#39;s deepest hydrothermal spring at Cenote Zacaton in northern Mexico.It&#39;s been explored to a depth of 292 metersand beyond that nobody knows anything.This is part of DEPTHX&#39;s mission.
时间： 8:18
zh-cn:我们有两个正在研究的主要方向。一个是如何在地下自动地做科学实验？如何将机器人变成野外工作的生物学家？这个有更多的步骤可惜我没有足够的时间细述，但是基本上我们操纵机器人穿过这个空间，我们让它探测环境变量—硫化物，卤化物，这样的东西。我们计算倾斜的表面，操纵机器人爬上墙体那里很有可能存在生命。我们沿墙移动，这就是所谓的近距离操做寻找颜色的变化。如果我们遇到什么有趣的东西，我们把它放到显微镜下。如果它通过了显微镜测试，我们就收集样本。我们收集液体样本，或者我们从墙体上直接采集固体岩芯标本。这一过程无需人来遥控这全都由机器人自己执行。
en:There are two primary targets we&#39;re doing here.One is, how do you do science autonomy underground?How do you take a robot and turn it into a field microbiologist?There are more stages involved herethan I&#39;ve got time to tell you about, but basically we drivethrough the space, we populate it with environmental variables —sulphide, halide, things like that.We calculate gradient surfaces, and drive the bot over to a wallwhere there&#39;s a high probability of life.We move along the wall, in what&#39;s called proximity operations,looking for changes in color.If we see something that looks interesting, we pull it into a microscope.If it passes the microscopic test, we go for a collection.We either draw in a liquid sample,or we can actually take a solid core from the wall.No hands at the wheel.This is all behavioral autonomy herethat&#39;s being conducted by the robot on its own.
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:这台机器最大的创新是一种我们研发的与众不同的导航系统，被称作3D SLAM, 用于同时定位和画图。深水热源探测仪是一种全视角眼球。它的感应光源可以同时向前向后，允许它做新的探索同时它能将感应到的它所经过的地方地几何图形锁定。
en:The real hat trick for this vehicle, though,is a disruptive new navigation system we&#39;ve developed,known as 3D SLAM, for simultaneous localization and mapping.DEPTHX is an all-seeing eyeball.Its sensor beams look both forward and backward at the same time,allowing it to do new explorationwhile it&#39;s still achieving geometric sensor-lockon what it&#39;s gone through already.
时间： 9:24
zh-cn:我接下来要给你展示的是有史以来第一个全自动地下探索机器人今年五月，我们准备从扎卡顿地下一千米处出发，如果我们幸运，深水热源探测仪将会带回第一个机器人独立发现的细菌切片。那之后的第二步是在南极洲对它做测试，然后如果资金许可，并且美国宇航局有决心，我们可能在2016年前开始实施（探索外星）计划，在2019年我们有可能得到证明地球外的生命存在第一个证据，
en:What I&#39;m going to show you nextis the first fully autonomous robotic exploration undergroundthat&#39;s ever been done.This May, we&#39;re going to go from minus 1,000 meters in Zacaton,and if we&#39;re very lucky, DEPTHX will bring back the firstrobotically-discovered division of bacteria.The next step after that is to test it in Antartica and then,if the funding continues and NASA has the resolution to go,we could potentially launch by 2016, and by 2019we may have the first evidence of life off this planet.
时间：10:45
zh-cn:那载人的空间探索呢？美国政府最近宣布了2024重返月球的计划。这项任务的成功将使少数的政府雇佣的科学家和飞行员的探访月球活动和五十年前相比，从人类探索宇宙的整体来看，并没有什么起步如果我们想要在有生之年让太空飞行变得习以为然必须有根本的改变，
en:What then of manned space exploration?The government recently announced plans to return to the moon by 2024.The successful conclusion of that mission will resultin infrequent visitation of the moon by a small numberof government scientists and pilots.It will leave us no further along in the general expansionof humanity into space than we were 50 years ago.Something fundamental has to changeif we are to see common access to space in our lifetime.
时间：11:15
zh-cn:我下面要展示的是一些有争论的观点。我希望大家耐心听我讲并且相信我们这里所说的是确实可信的。私人探索太空工作有三大支柱。其一是经济的地球到太空的交通运输创业家们象伯特•鲁坦斯和理查德•布兰特（维珍航空公司的创始人）已经开始在这方面努力,我向他们致敬。加油，加油，加油
en:What I&#39;m going to show you next are a couple of controversial ideas.And I hope you&#39;ll bear with me and have some faiththat there&#39;s credibility behind what we&#39;re going to say here.There are three underpinnings of working in space privately.One of them is the requirementfor economical earth-to-space transport.The Bert Rutans and Richard Bransons of this worldhave got this in their sights and I salute them.Go, go, go.
时间：11:44
zh-cn:我们需要的另一件事是轨道上的停留处。先以做太空酒店（旅游业）开始，之后可以我们的工作站。最后一点，真正能扭转乾坤的是：太空轨道加油站。它不会是图上这样的。如果它存在，它会改变所有未来宇宙飞船和宇宙空间探索计划的设计。
en:The next thing we need are places to stay on orbit.Orbital hotels to start with, but workshops for the rest of us later on.The final missing piece, the real paradigm-buster, is this:a gas station on orbit.It&#39;s not going to look like that.If it existed, it would change all future spacecraft design and space mission planning.
时间：12:07
zh-cn:现在，为了让大家明白此断言的分量我要教大家一点儿太空基础知识。首先，你要为在太空里所做的每一件事情按千克付费。有人这周喝过一杯这个吗？在轨道上你要为其支付一万美元。那比你要参加TED支付的费用还要多，如果谷歌撤销他们的赞助的话。（笑）其次，推进剂占百分之九十多的飞船重量。因此，每次你想要在宇宙空间里做任何事，每次你踩加速器时，你就是在大笔地烧钱即使是做Tesla(极品电动跑车)的家伙们也没法战胜那个物理现象。
en:Now, to give you a chance to understandwhy there is power in that statement,I&#39;ve got to give you the basics of Space 101.And the first thing is everything you do in space you pay by the kilogram.Anybody drink one of these here this week?You&#39;d pay 10,000 dollars for that in orbit.That&#39;s more than you pay for TED,if Google dropped their sponsorship.(Laughter)The second is more than 90 percent of the weight of a vehicle is in propellant.Thus, every time you&#39;d want to do anything in space,you are literally blowing away enormous sums of moneyevery time you hit the accelerator.Not even the guys at Tesla can fight that physics.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:所以，如果你能都以十分之一的价钱得到燃料会怎样？有个地方可以让你这样做。事实上，可以更便宜—你能以十四分之一的价格得到如果你能够在月球上发现推进剂的话。美国国防部13年展开了一个鲜为人知的，称为克莱门汀的计划。这项计划最令人称奇的发现是在月球的南极沙克尔顿环形山探测到很强的氢气信号那信号非常强，只有沉淀地下的10万亿吨水才能生成它，那水是成百上千万年小行星和彗星撞击遗留物汇聚而成
en:So, what if you could get your gas at a 10th the price?There is a place where you can.In fact, you can get it better — you can get it at 14 times lowerif you can find propellant on the moon.There is a little-known mission that was launchedby the Pentagon, 13 years ago now, called Clementine.And the most amazing thing that came out of that missionwas a strong hydrogen signature at Shackleton crateron the south pole of the moon.That signal was so strong,it could only have been produced by 10 trillion tons of waterburied in the sediment, collected over millions and billions of yearsby the impact of asteroids and comet material.
时间：13:41
zh-cn:如果我们要用这水使加油站的建造成为可能的话我们必须找到在在太空中移动大量物资的方法。我们现在还做不到。人们现在的做法是从地球使用多级火箭这种方法需要克服各种空气动力效应。我们必须克服它。我们能够这样做是因为太空里没有空气阻力。我们几乎总是能够使用充气系统。这个设想又是出自1989年在利弗莫尔洛厄尔伍德教授领导的团队。我们现在可以把它扩展到几乎每个其他领域。鲍勃•比奇洛目前正在太空轨道上检测一个这样的装置。我们可以更近一步我们可以建立太空拖船，装载冷冻机和水的轨道平台。还有另一件事情。当你从月球回来时，轨道力学告诉我们你需要减每秒10000英尺的速度慢到回加油站时所需的速度。
en:If we&#39;re going to get that, and make that gas station possible,we have to figure out ways to move large volumes of payload through space.We can&#39;t do that right now.The way you normally build a system right now is you have a tube stackthat has to be launched from the ground,and resist all kinds of aerodynamic forces.We have to beat that.We can do it because in space there are no aerodynamics.We can go and use inflatable systems for almost everything.This is an idea that, again, came out of Livermore back in 1989,with Dr. Lowell Wood&#39;s group.And we can extend that now to just about everything.Bob Bigelow currently has a test article in the orbit.We can go much further.We can build space tugs, orbiting platforms for holding cryogens and water.There&#39;s another thing.When you&#39;re coming back from the moon,you have to deal with orbital mechanics.It says you&#39;re moving 10,000 feet per second fasterthan you really want to be to get back to your gas station.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:你有两个选择。你可以燃烧火箭燃料，或者你可以做些很不可思议的事情。你可以扎入平流层，恰好抵消高速，再回到空间站。此举从未有人做过。这很冒险，会比迪士尼的过山车还惊险传统的太空探索方法是你载着所有所需燃料燃料足够确保每个人安全往返并且能应对紧急状况。如果你试着为了登月这么做，送出一名宇航员光燃料就要花费十亿美元。但是如果你派遣一支采矿小队到那里，前提是不带返程燃料—（笑）有人听过科尔特兹的故事吗？这不像那个故事。我更像是司各特。我喜欢推进剂，我真的很看重它所以我们不准备烧掉它。但是，如果你真的很大胆你可以在那里（月球上）得到并制造它，而且这会变成最激动人心的演示证明你离开地球也能做一些前所未有的有价值的事情。人们都说没有亿万美元和20年时间的话在太空里不可能做成任何事情。这是错的。七年之内，我们能够胜利完成一项去沙克尔顿（有水的月球环形山）的工业计划显示人类能利用月球能源在近地轨道上提供商业活动
en:You got two choices.You can burn rocket fuel to get there, or you can do something really incredible.You can dive into the stratosphere,and precisely dissipate that velocity, and come back out to the space station.It has never been done.It&#39;s risky and it&#39;s going to be one hell of a ride —better than Disney.The traditional approach to space explorationhas been that you carry all the fuel you needto get everybody back in case of an emergency.If you try to do that for the moon,you&#39;re going to burn a billion dollars in fuel alone sending a crew out there.But if you send a mining team there,without the return propellant, first —(Laughter)Did any of you guys hear the story of Cortez?This is not like that. I&#39;m much more like Scotty.I like this equipment, you know, and I really value itso we&#39;re not going to burn the gear.But, if you were truly bold you could get it there, manufacture it,and it would be the most dramatic demonstrationthat you could do something worthwhile off this planetthat has ever been done.There&#39;s a myth that you can&#39;t do anything in spacefor less than a trillion dollars and 20 years.That&#39;s not true.In seven years, we could pull offan industrial mission to Shackleton and demonstratethat you could provide commercial reality out of this in low-earth orbit.
时间：15:53
zh-cn:我们正处在人类历史上最令人兴奋的时代之一。我们处在一个魔幻般的交汇口，这里个人财富和想象力正推动着人们进入太空的需求。我刚才描述的太空轨道加油站能够创建一种全新的工业而且提供一把开启全面探索太空之门的钥匙。打破固有模式需要一种全新的方法。我们可以发起一次象路易斯和克拉克穿越美国一样具有历史意义的对沙克尔顿环形山的工业探索，以开采月球资源，证明它们可以成为在轨道上可盈利的商业活动的基础。
en:We&#39;re living in one of the most exciting times in history.We&#39;re at a magical confluence where private wealthand imagination are driving the demand for access to space.The orbital refueling stations I&#39;ve just describedcould create an entirely new industry and provide the final keyfor opening space to the general exploration.To bust the paradigm a radically different approach is needed.We can do it by jump-starting with an industrialLewis and Clark expedition to Shackleton crater,to mine the moon for resources, and demonstratethey can form the basis for a profitable business on orbit.
时间：16:27
zh-cn:当人们讨论太空探险时，似乎总是故意把目的和时限定得模模糊糊作为结束，我现在就在TED作出承诺我志在领导这项太空远征。(掌声)有合适的支持，这件事可以在七年内完成。加入我完成此事的人将会和那些历史上其他用于探索的人一起，永垂史册他们今天如果在这里，也定会诚心赞同。
en:Talk about space always seems to be hung on ambiguitiesof purpose and timing.I would like to close here by putting a stake in the sand at TED.I intend to lead that expedition.(Applause)It can be done in seven years with the right backing.Those who join me in making it happen will become a part of historyand join other bold individuals from time pastwho, had they been here today, would have heartily approved.
时间：17:01
zh-cn:人们曾经勇敢地开启边疆之门。我们做为一个整体已忘记那一课。100年前欧内斯特沙克尔顿先生（英国南极探险家）说过“我们需要的是胆气才能前进”，现在也是一样我要在月球表面插一面工业的旗帜在我们的时代,为我们所有人,完成将会开启航天边疆之门的最后一项任务谢谢。掌声
en:There was once a time when people did bold things to open the frontier.We have collectively forgotten that lesson.Now we&#39;re at a time when boldness is required to move forward.100 years after Sir Ernest Shackleton wrote these words,I intend to plant an industrial flag on the moonand complete the final piecethat will open the space frontier, in our time, for all of us.Thank you.(Applause)
