时间： 0:11
zh-cn:地理环境是否能使你身体更健康？2001年我被一列车撞到。我的心脏受到了损害。醒来时我发现自己在医院的一个加护病房里，正从急救手术中恢复过来。我突然意识到：自己完全被蒙在鼓里。我开始问自己：“为什么是我？”为什么是现在？为什么在这儿？“我的医生能否事先告诫我？”
en:Can geographic informationmake you healthy?In 2001 I got hit by a train.My train was a heart attack.I found myself in a hospitalin an intensive-care ward,recuperating from emergency surgery.And I suddenly realized something:that I was completely in the dark.I started asking my questions, &quot;Well, why me?&quot;&quot;Why now?&quot; &quot;Why here?&quot;&quot;Could my doctor have warned me?&quot;
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:所以，在接下来的几分钟，我想与你们分享的是一个健康的生命应由什么构成。遗传基因，生活方式和环境。也就是说这些是我们将面对的风险因素，如果我们处理好这些风险我们的生活将会更健康更美好。当然 ，我了解基因和生活方式这两方面。那你们知道我为什么了解吗？因为我的内科医生不断地询问这些方面的情况。
en:So, what I want to do here in the few minutes I have with youis really talk about what is the formula for life and good health.Genetics, lifestyle and environment.That&#39;s going to sort of contain our risks,and if we manage those riskswe&#39;re going to live a good life and a good healthy life.Well, I understand the genetics and lifestyle part.And you know why I understand that?Because my physicians constantlyask me questions about this.
时间： 1:13
zh-cn:你是否在医生的办公处填写过，那些标准大小规格的表格？我是说，你们已幸运地做过多次这样的事，对吗？（笑声）一次又一次的重复。然后他们还要询问你的生活方式，你的家庭史你的药物治疗史，你的外科史你的过敏史，恩...我还忘了其他的什么历史吗？
en:Have you ever had to fill out those long,legal-size forms in your doctor&#39;s office?I mean, if you&#39;re lucky enough you get to do it more than once, right?(Laughter)Do it over and over again. And they ask you questionsabout your lifestyle and your family history,your medication history, your surgical history,your allergy history ... did I forget any history?
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:但是对于这个部分，我并不是真正的知道。而且我也不认为我的医生真正的了解了这部分的信息。我的环境意味着什么？实际上，它意味着很多事情。这是我的生活。它们是我生活的地方。我们每个人都拥有的。我希望在我演讲时，你们都想想你们在多少个地方生活过？
en:But this part of the equation I didn&#39;t really get,and I don&#39;t think my physiciansreally get this part of the equation.What does that mean, my environment?Well, it can mean a lot of things.This is my life. These are my life places.We all have these.While I&#39;m talking I&#39;d like you to also be thinking about:How many places have you lived?
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:在你的生活中时不时想想这个问题。你会意识到，你的生命在很多不同的地方度过。你在不同的地方休息和工作。如果是像我类的人，旅途过程中你将花相当一部分的时间在机场这个地方。所以，我们总是很难回答类似的问题你在哪儿生活？你在哪儿工作？你在哪儿度过你的时光？你在哪儿陷入那些你甚至未意识到的危机之中？当我向自己发问时我总能得出以下结论我生命中大约75%的时间都集中在几个地方度过。大部分的时间我不会远离它们，即使我是一位满世界跑的旅行者。
en:Just think about that, you know, wander throughyour life thinking about this.And you realize that you spend it in a variety of different places.You spend it at rest and you spend it at work.And if you&#39;re like me, you&#39;re in an airplane a good portion of your timetraveling some place.So, it&#39;s not really simplewhen somebody asks you, &quot;Where do you live, where do you work,and where do you spend all your time?And where do you expose yourselves to risksthat maybe perhaps you don&#39;t even see?&quot;Well, when I have done this on myself,I always come to the conclusionthat I spend about 75 percent of my timerelatively in a small number of places.And I don&#39;t wander far from that placefor a majority of my time,even though I&#39;m an extensive global trekker.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:现在，我将带你们踏上我的几段旅途。我从宾夕法尼亚的斯克兰顿出发。我不知道现场是否有人来自宾西法尼亚州东北部。但是这是我与我年轻活力的肺一起呆了19年的地方。在这里，我伴随着高浓度的二氧化硫，二氧化碳和甲烷一起度过了我生命中的19年。如果你也曾在这个地方住过，你就会了解它们都是产生于就像这些一堆堆正在燃烧的煤渣。
en:Now, I&#39;m going to take you on a little journey here.I started off in Scranton, Pennsylvania.I don&#39;t know if anybody might hail from northeastern Pennsylvania,but this is where I spent my first 19 yearswith my little young lungs.You know, breathing high concentrations hereof sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxideand methane gas,in unequal quantities — 19 years of this.And if you&#39;ve been in that part of the country,this is what those piles of burning, smoldering coal waste look like.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:所以，我决定离开那个地方。然后打算迁到中西部。现在我在肯塔基州的路易斯维尔定居。我打算成为橡胶镇的邻居。这个镇生产塑料。生产过程中使用大量的氯丁二烯和苯。就这样，我带着我那步入中年的肺呼吸着充满氯丁二烯和奔的空气又生活了25年。在晴朗的天气里它显得那样的干净漂亮，你从不会发现这些毒气存在。但它却是真真实实的潜在地发生了。
en:So then I decided to leave that part of the world,and I was going to go to the mid-west.OK, so I ended up in Louisville, Kentucky.Well, I decided to be neighbors to a place called Rubbertown.They manufacture plastics. They use large quantities chloropreneand benzene.Okay, I spent 25 years, in my middle-age lungs now,breathing various concentrations of that.And on a clear day it always looked like this, so you never saw it.It was insidious and it was really happening.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:然后我决定了我必须变得聪明，我要在西海岸从事这个工作。然后我又搬到了加利福尼亚州的瑞德兰兹。我带着年长的肺（我喜欢这样称呼它们）生活在那里之后我又发现了一些小问题，二氧化碳，臭氧的浓度非常高。甚至是整个国家最高点的。这个地方天气好的时候就像这样。如果你住过那里，你就会了解我正在说的。
en:Then I decided I had to get really smart,I would take this job in the West Coast.And I moved to Redlands California.Very nice, and theremy older, senior lungs, as I like to call them,I filled with particulate matter, carbon dioxide and very high doses of ozone.Okay? Almost like the highest in the nation.Alright, this is what it looks like on a good day.If you&#39;ve been there, you know what I&#39;m talking about.
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:现在看看，这副图片存在什么问题？是的，在图片的这里，有个巨大的空隙。在我医生的办公室从未发生过的一件事就是：他们从未问过我的居住地情况。我记得从未有过任何一个医生问过我：你曾经在什么地方居住过？他们没有问过我我饮用的水质量如何？或者我食用的食物的质量又如何？他们从未那样做过。看看这组数据。这组数据是世界各国投入数亿美元做此类研究所得出的。
en:So, what&#39;s wrong with this picture?Well, the picture is, there is a huge gap here.The one thing that never happens in my doctor&#39;s office:They never ask me about my place history.No doctor, can I remember, ever asking me,&quot;Where have you lived?&quot;They haven&#39;t asked me what kind of the qualityof the drinking water that I put in my mouthor the food that I ingest into my stomach.They really don&#39;t do that. It&#39;s missing.Look at the kind of data that&#39;s available.This data&#39;s from all over the world —countries spend billions of dollars investing in this kind of research.
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:现在，我圈出了我们研究过的地方。现在，我必须在一些地方呆过我才能得心脏病，对吗？所以，有多少人住在白色的这些地方？在坐的有多少人在这些白色地方度过了你生命中的大部分时间？有吗？这个先生你很幸运。又有多少人居住在这些红色区域？看来不是很幸运。有成千上万副类似的图片，在世界各地的地图册中展示出来。他们提醒我们发生火车碰撞后将会发生什么。但是在我的医疗记录中没有任何相关的记录。相信你们的也没有。
en:Now, I&#39;ve circled the places where I&#39;ve been.Well, by design, if I wanted to have a heart attackI&#39;d been in the right places. Right?So, how many people are in the white?How many people in the room have spent the majority of their lifein the white space?Anybody? Boy you&#39;re lucky.How many have spent it in the red places?Oh, not so lucky.There are thousands of these kinds of mapsthat are displayed in atlasesall over the world.They give us some sense of what&#39;s goingto be our train wreck.But none of that&#39;s in my medical record.And it&#39;s not in yours either.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:这是我的一位朋友Paul，是我同事，在过去的两年里，他将其移动电话设置为可以被追踪的365天，每天两个小时，不管他到哪个地方。你可以看到他到过了美国的几个地方，在这里他度过了大部分的时间。如果你认真的观察这些地方，你可能从中猜出Paul的爱好是什么。有人知道吗？是的，就是滑雪。我们聚焦这儿，我们马上会发现在这些地方Paul度过了相当一部分的时光。所有这些黑点都是由EPA监测出的有毒气排放记录的地方。
en:So, here&#39;s my friend Paul.He&#39;s a colleague. He allowed his cell phone to be trackedevery two hours, 24/7,365 days out of the yearfor the last two years, everywhere he went.And you can see he&#39;s been to a few places around the United States.And this is where he has spent most of his time.If you really studied that you might have some cluesas to what Paul likes to do.Anybody got any clues? Ski. Right.We can zoom in here, and we suddenly seethat now we see where Paul has really spent a majority of his time.And all of those black dots are all of thetoxic release inventoriesthat are monitored by the EPA.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:你们知道有这类数据存在吗？在美国的各个社区，你们都可以领取属于你们自己的地图册。所以，我们的手机现在帮助建立我们的居住史。这就是Paul用他的iPhone 所做的.这可能即使我们最终想要达到的效果。
en:Did you know that data existed?For every community in the United States,you could have your own personalized map of that.So, our cell phones can now build a place history.This is how Paul did it. He did it with his iPhone.This might be what we end up with.
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:当我们进入到治疗室时，这个将呈现给我们的医生而不是在柜台领取的那张表，对吗？这个是我自己一个小猜测他可能看着那个然后说“喔~Bill，你居住，你居住在美丽的加利福尼亚每天都那么的温暖，可能你决定每天晚上6点出去跑步，但是从这组数据中看出这将不会是个好主意。”
en:This is what the physician would havein front of him and her when we enter that exam roominstead of just the pink slip that said I paid at the counter. Right?This could be my little assessment.And he looks at that and he says,&quot;Whoa Bill,I suggest that maybe you not decide,just because you&#39;re out here in beautiful California,and it&#39;s warm every day,that you get out and run at six o&#39;clock at night.I&#39;d suggest that that&#39;s a bad idea Bill,because of this report.&quot;
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:今天我将留给你们是这样的两个处方：第一个：我们必须让我们的医生了解到地理信息的价值所在。全世界正在做的研究其中一半项目都在关注。这些研究都处于起步阶段，都需要得到支持。然后我们需要告诉我们未来全世界范围内的医生们，今天我与你们一起分享的这些信息的重要性。
en:What I&#39;d like to leave you for are two prescriptions.Okay, number one is, we must teach physiciansabout the value of geographical information.It&#39;s called geomedicine. There are about a half a dozen programs in the world right nowthat are focused on this.And they&#39;re in the early stages of development.These programs need to be supported,and we need to teach our futuredoctors of the worldthe importance of some of the informationI&#39;ve shared here with you today.
时间： 7:39
zh-cn:第二件事我们需要做的是：当世界各地投入亿万美元去建立一个电子化的健康记录时，我们必须确定将居住史记录在内。它不仅对医生显得很重要，为研究者也同样重要。对此，我们可以举出大量的例子。同样对于我们自己也非常有用。如果我们拥有了这些信息，无需到美国的臭氧中心就可以得出结论。我可以吗？是的，我可以。基于我自己和我公司的最大利益，或者我可以与我的雇主谈判做出决定。
en:The second thing we need to dois while we&#39;re spending billions and billionsof dollars all over the worldbuilding an electronic health record,we make sure we put a place historyinside that medical record.It not only will be important for the physician;it will be important for the researchersthat now will have huge samples to draw upon.But it will also be useful for us.I could have made the decision, if I had this information,not to move to the ozone capitalof the United States, couldn&#39;t I? I could make that decision.Or I could negotiate with my employerto make that decisionin the best interest of myself and my company.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:有了那些，我可以说出Jack Lord差不多十年前说过的话。花一分钟的时间看这，这是Dartmouth保健地图册所得到的结论。从中我们可以解释在身体处于生病抑或是健康时地理区域的变化。还有我们的保健系统又是怎么实际运行的。这就是他在引用此数据时所要阐述的。我要说在10年前他就正确的认识到了。所以，我将非常欣喜的看到我们能真正的抓住这个机会将居住史也涵盖在医疗记录中。所以我将带给你们我个人对健康的看法：就是地理总是问题所在。而且我坚信了解地理信息将会使你和我更加健康。谢谢！（鼓掌）
en:With that, I would like to just say that Jack Lord saidthis almost 10 years ago.Just look at that for a minute.That was what the conclusionof the Dartmouth Atlas of Healthcare was about,was saying that we can explain the geographic variationsthat occur in disease, in illness, in wellness,and how our healthcare system actually operates.That was what he was talking abouton that quote.And I would say he got it right almost a decade ago.So, I&#39;d very much like to see us begin toreally seize this as an opportunity to get this into our medical records.So with that, I&#39;ll leave you thatin my particular view of view of health:Geography always matters.And I believe that geographic informationcan make both you and me very healthy. Thank you.(Applause)
