时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在我正式阐述我的TED愿望之前，我希望可以解释一下我的追求，并点明我的追求是如何和这些人的追求联系在一起的。众所周知，我们生活在一个息息相关彼此依存的世界，但却在三个主要的方面存在欠缺。首先，我们的世界是极其不平等的。世界上一半人口的日均生活费用低于两美元，十亿人无法获取洁净的用水，二十五亿人没有基本的卫生系统，十亿人每晚挨着饿睡觉。每四例死亡中，就有一例是因为艾滋病、肺结核、疟疾以及其它脏水疾病所造成的疾病──这其中百分之八十是不满五岁的孩子。
en:I thought in getting up to my TED wishI would try to begin by putting in perspective what I try to doand how it fits with what they try to do.We live in a world that everyone knows is interdependent,but insufficient in three major ways.It is, first of all, profoundly unequal:half the world&#39;s people still living on less than two dollars a day;a billion people with no access to clean water;two and a half billion no access to sanitation;a billion going to bed hungry every night;one in four deaths every year from AIDS, TB, malariaand the variety of infections associated with dirty water —80 percent of them under five years of age.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:即使是在富裕的国家，与日俱增的贫富差距也是变得日渐明显。在美国，从2001年起，我们经历了连续五年的经济增长，五年的生产力增长，但工资中位数却是停滞不前，贫困线以下的工薪家庭的比例上升了百分之四。没有医疗保险的工薪家庭比例上升了百分之四。现今这个彼此依存的世界对我们大多数人来讲都有好处，这也就是为什么我们今晚可以齐聚北加州，享受生活，但事实上，它极不平等。与此同时，它又极不稳定。不稳定的原因是多样的：恐怖袭击的威胁、大规模杀伤性武器、全球范围内的疾病扩散、以及一种史无前例的脆弱感。但最重要的是，这个世界是不可持续的──环境变化、资源匮竭、物种灭绝。
en:Even in wealthy countries it is common now to see inequality growing.In the United States, since 2001 we&#39;ve had five years of economic growth,five years of productivity growth in the workplace,but median wages are stagnant and the percentage of working familiesdropping below the poverty line is up by four percent.The percentage of working families without health care up by four percent.So this interdependent world which has been pretty good to most of us —which is why we&#39;re all here in Northern California doing what we dofor a living, enjoying this evening — is profoundly unequal.It is also unstable.Unstable because of the threats of terror,weapons of mass destruction, the spread of global diseaseand a sense that we are vulnerable to it in a way that we weren&#39;t not so many years ago.And perhaps most important of all, it is unsustainablebecause of climate change, resource depletion and species destruction.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:每当我想到我的子孙后代以及我想要留给他们的世界时，我所想到的是一个从不平等、不稳定、不可持续的彼此依存迈向地区、国家、全球间互相协调的世界，一个拥有所有成功社会的特质的世界。充满了面向所有人的机遇，以及为了人类的共同美好而努力的责任感，还有真正意义上的归属感。但这一切都是说起来容易做起来难。当英国几年前遭受恐怖袭击的时候，我意识到虽然他们当时丧失的生命并没有美国9-11袭击中的那么多，但真正让英国人揪心担忧的是当时的那些犯案者并不是外来的侵略者，而是本土的公民。对这些人来说，他们的宗教信仰和政治理念要比那些跟他们共同长大、一同吃饭、一起过周末的同学同事们更加重要。换言之，他们认为人类彼此间的不同要比我们共有的人性更加重要。这就是21世纪我们人类所面临的最主要的心理瘟疫。
en:When I think about the world I would like to leave to my daughterand the grandchildren I hope to have,it is a world that moves away from unequal, unstable, unsustainableinterdependence to integrated communities — locally, nationally and globally —that share the characteristics of all successful communities:a broadly shared, accessible set of opportunities,a shared sense of responsibility for the success of the common enterpriseand a genuine sense of belonging.All easier said than done.When the terrorist incidents occurred in the United Kingdom a couple of years ago,I think even though they didn&#39;t claim as many lives as we lost in the United States on 9/11,I think the thing that troubled the British mostwas that the perpetrators were not invaders, but homegrown citizenswhose religious and political identities were more important to themthan the people they grew up with, went to school with,worked with, shared weekends with, shared meals with.In other words, they thought their differenceswere more important than their common humanity.It is the central psychological plague of humankind in the 21st century.
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:在这种状况下，我们这些不为公家工作的人起到了史无前例的作用，因为世界上一半以上的人口可以民主地选举或是罢免他们的政府。即使是那些非民主的政府，也开始更加注重民意。再有，随着互联网的日趋强大，手无寸铁的人们只要志同道合，便可以聚集起来筹集大笔的善款改变世界、播撒善行。当大海啸袭击东南亚时，美国捐赠了十二亿美元。百分之三十的家庭参与了募捐。其中一半是通过互联网捐赠的。捐款的中位数是在57美元左右。第三个原因则是因为非政府性组织的崛起。他们──企业家、其他公民团体，拥有着巨大的力量来改变人们的生活。当我在1993年刚当上总统的时候，俄罗斯没有一个这样的组织机构。现在却有十几万个。印度当时一个都没有。现在却至少有五十万个。中国当时一个都没有。现在却有二十五万个已经在政府注册，如果我们算上那些因为政治原因没有在政府注册的机构，这个数字可能要翻倍。
en:Into this mix, people like us, who are not in public office,have more power to do good than at any time in history,because more than half the world&#39;s peoplelive under governments they voted in and can vote out.And even non-democratic governments are more sensitive to public opinion.Because primarily of the power of the Internet,people of modest means can band together and amass vast sums of moneythat can change the world for some public good if they all agree.When the tsunami hit South Asia, the United States contributed 1.2 billion dollars.30 percent of our households gave.Half of them gave over the Internet.The median contribution was somewhere around 57 dollars.And thirdly, because of the rise of non-governmental organizations.They, businesses, other citizens&#39; groups, have enormous powerto affect the lives of our fellow human beings.When I became president in 1993,there were none of these organizations in Russia.There are now a couple of hundred thousand.None in India. There are now at least a half a million active.None in China. There are now 250,000 registered with the government,probably twice again that many who are not registered for political reasons.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:当我刚成立我的基金会的时候，我想到了我们现今的世界以及我希望留给下一代的世界，我尽可能地做到切合实际，追求我生命中真正关心并且依靠我的微薄之力可以产生一些影响的事业。我希望可以卯足力气专门鼓舞如下的几项活动──缓解贫穷、铲除疾病、阻止气候变化、化解宗教、种族以及其他种种折磨世界的隔阂。而开展这些活动的方式则是通过将我们已有的各项技能运用到我们的团队中来改变一些公益活动运行的方式以求惠及世界的每个角落。
en:When I organized my foundation, and I thought about the world as it isand the world that I hope to leave to the next generation,and I tried to be realistic about what I had cared about all my lifethat I could still have an impact on.I wanted to focus on activitiesthat would help to alleviate poverty, fight disease, combat climate change,bridge the religious, racial and other divides that torment the world,but to do it in a way that would either usewhatever particular skills we could put together in our groupto change the way some public good function was performedso that it would sweep across the world more.
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:其中的一个例子就是我们对艾滋药物所做的改变。在这里，我想提到我们艾滋病团队的领导者并且对我今晚所要许下的愿景起着关键作用的Ira Magaziner就在现场。我要感谢他所做的一切。他就坐在那边。（掌声）当我刚刚离职时，被邀请到加勒比海去帮忙解决当地的艾滋危机。当时那里治疗艾滋病的非名牌药物的价钱大概是每人每年500美元。如果你大量购买的话，要花400美元不到。我们当时去的第一个国家，巴哈马群岛那里的药物价格高达三千五百美元。当地的药物市场极其混乱，病人不得不经过两层的代理商才能买到药物，药物的价格因此被哄抬七倍。而在我们开始工作的第一个星期，就成功地把药物的价格降低到了五百美元。突然间，他们可以利用同样的财力资源来拯救七倍的生命。
en:You saw one reference to that in what we were able to do with AIDS drugs.And I want to say that the head of our AIDS effort,and the person who also is primarily active in the wish I&#39;ll make tonight,Ira Magaziner, is here with me and I want to thank him for everything he&#39;s done.He&#39;s over there.(Applause)When I got out of office and was asked to work, first in the Caribbean,to try to help deal with the AIDS crisis,generic drugs were available for about 500 dollars a person a year.If you bought them in vast bulks,you could get them at a little under 400 dollars.The first country we went to work in, the Bahamas,was paying 3,500 dollars for these drugs.The market was so terribly disorganizedthat they were buying this medicine through two agentswho were gigging them sevenfold.So the very first week we were working,we got the price down to 500 dollars.And all of a sudden, they could save seven times as many livesfor the same amount of money.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:随后我们又开始和艾滋药物的制造商合作，影片中提到了其中的一位。我们和他们协调磋商，希望可以发展一套全新的商业策略。因为即使是在500美元的价格，这些药物的销售仍旧是高利润、低销量，外加上不稳定的付款。所以我们加强提高了他们营销和供应的生产力，构建了一个薄利多销、付款稳定的商业模式。我曾开玩笑的说道，我们对于这场艾滋战役所做出的最重要的贡献，就是说服药物厂商放弃珠宝店的经营模式，转而投靠杂货店的商业策路。但药物价钱则是从500美元降低到140美元，不久后，平均价钱稳定在192美元。现在我们只需大概100美元便可得到这些药物。儿童药物当时的价钱是600美元，因为没有人可以承担得起。我们通过协商，将价钱降到190美元。法国人还颁布了他们别具匠心的航空税，创办了UNITAID，说服了一些其他的国家共同参与帮助。现在儿童药物的人均价钱是每年60美元。
en:Then we went to work with the manufacturers of AIDS medicines,one of whom was cited in the film,and negotiated a whole different change in business strategy,because even at 500 dollars, these drugswere being sold on a high-margin, low-volume, uncertain-payment basis.So we worked on improving the productivity of the operationsand the supply chain, and went to a low-margin, high-volume,absolutely certain-payment business.I joked that the main contribution we madeto the battle against AIDS was to get the manufacturersto change from a jewelry store to a grocery store strategy.But the price went to 140 dollars from 500.And pretty soon, the average price was 192 dollars.Now we can get it for about 100 dollars.Children&#39;s medicine was 600 dollars,because nobody could afford to buy any of it.We negotiated it down to 190.Then, the French imposed their brilliantly conceived airline taxto create a something called UNITAID,got a bunch of other countries to help.That children&#39;s medicine is now 60 dollars a person a year.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:而我们拯救生命、将药物传递给那些需要的人的梦想只剩下最后的一个阻隔，那就是体制的欠缺。我们缺少一个可以诊察、治疗、运送药物的体制。我们曾和美国心脏协会合作，提出了一项减少儿童肥胖的倡议。我们也尝试将同样的理念传达给那些饮料、零食的厂商，通过协调磋商，来降低学校食物中卡路里的含量以及其他不健康的物质。我们因此重新整顿了市场。我也意识到，在现今这个非政府性的世界里，我们需要一些人，来想办法打开公共产品的市场。而这正是我们当下所要做的事情。通过和大城市中各组织的合作，来共同阻止气候变化，开展谈判，敦促这些排放世界上百分之七十五温室气体的大城市采取极端快速的手段，以一种从经济学的角度来看行得通的方式，来减少温室气体的排放。而人们为什么会把这一切当做是某种经济负担对我来讲是个不解的谜团。我觉得减少温室气体将会产生巨大的利益。
en:The only thing that is keeping us from basically saving the livesof everybody who needs the medicine to stay aliveare the absence of systems necessary to diagnose, treat and carefor people and deliver this medicine.We started a childhood obesity initiative with the Heart Association in America.We tried to do the same thing by negotiating industry-right dealswith the soft drink and the snack food industry to cut the caloricand other dangerous content of food going to our children in the schools.We just reorganized the markets.And it occurred to me that in this whole non-governmental world,somebody needs to be thinking about organizing public goods markets.And that is now what we&#39;re trying to do,and working with this large cities group to fight climate change,to negotiate huge, big, volume deals that will enable citieswhich generate 75 percent of the world&#39;s greenhouse gases,to drastically and quickly reduce greenhouse gas emissionsin a way that is good economics.And this whole discussion as if it&#39;s some sort of economic burden,is a mystery to me.I think it&#39;s a bird&#39;s nest on the ground.
时间： 9:15
zh-cn:当Al Gore（戈尔，克林期的美国副总统）的影片《难以忽视的真相》众望所归地夺得奥斯卡时，我是无比兴奋的。但我也督促他抓紧时间来拍摄另一部电影。如果你看过《难以忽视的真相》，你应该知道戈尔的整个演讲中最重要的一张幻灯片是最后一张，它展示了如果我们什么都不做的话，温室气体排放的走向（上升）以及温室气体排放应该达到的走向（下降）。我们一共可以做六项事情来改变温室气体排放的走向。我们需要一部电影来详解这六项事情。而你们所有人都应该将其铭记于心，并依据它组织管理自己。所以这就是我们当前正在努力做的事情之一──
en:When Al Gore won his well-deserved Oscarfor the &quot;Inconvenient Truth&quot; movie, I was thrilled,but I had urged him to make a second movie quickly.For those of you who saw &quot;An Inconvenient Truth,&quot;the most important slide in the Gore lecture is the last one,which shows here&#39;s where greenhouse gases are goingif we don&#39;t do anything, here&#39;s where they could go.And then there are six different categoriesof things we can do to change the trajectory.We need a movie on those six categories.And all of you need to have it embedded in your brainsand to organize yourselves around it.So we&#39;re trying to do that.
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:建立这些公益市场。而我们正在做的另一件事情是和我的愿望相关的。根据我以往在发展中国家工作的经验，虽然报纸头条，至少那些悲观的报纸头条，总是说我们无法做这个、不能做那个，因为腐败泛滥，但我却觉得在贫穷国家，比腐败更严重的问题是无能，无能滋养着腐败。我们现在有足够的财力资源，将这些低价位的艾滋药物分给世界上那些我们现今还无法接触到的人们。现如今，这些低价位药品可以在62个国家买到，其中25个是我们工作的国家。大概有五十五万人因此而收益。但就算我们有这些财力来帮助人们，却没有相应的体制将这些利益传递给他们。
en:So organizing these markets is one thing we try to do.Now we have taken on a second thing, and this gets to my wish.It has been my experience in working in developing countriesthat while the headlines may all be — the pessimistic headlines may say,well, we can&#39;t do this, that or the other thing because of corruption —I think incapacity is a far bigger problem in poor countries than corruption,and feeds corruption.We now have the money, given these low prices, to distributeAIDS drugs all over the world to people we cannot presently reach.Today these low prices are available in the 25 countries where we work,and in a total of 62 countries,and about 550,000 people are getting the benefits of them.But the money is there to reach others.The systems are not there to reach the people.
时间：10:52
zh-cn:对此，我们所做的尝试是──先在卢旺达，随后在马拉维和其他地区工作，但我今晚主要想谈谈卢旺达──我们正尝试着发展一个在贫困地区可行的乡村医疗模型，用来解决艾滋、肺结核、疟疾、其他传染性疾病、母子健康、以及其他一系列发展中国家的贫困人口正努力应付的医疗问题。我们希望这个模式可以首先普及到卢旺达全国，随后可以推广到世界上每一个贫困的国家。
en:So what we have been trying to do,working first in Rwanda and then in Malawi and other places —but I want to talk about Rwanda tonight —is to develop a model for rural health care in a very poor areathat can be used to deal with AIDS, TB, malaria, other infectious diseases,maternal and child health, and a whole range of health issuespoor people are grappling with in the developing world,that can first be scaled for the whole nation of Rwanda,and then will be a model that could literallybe implemented in any other poor country in the world.
时间：11:34
zh-cn:而其所面临的考验则是：首先，这个模式能履行它的职责吗？能发展提供高质量的医疗保健吗？其次，这一切可以在一个低价的前提下完成吗？可以帮助贫困国家在五至十年后脱离国际援助，建立一个自给自足的医疗体系吗？我和这些问题打交道的时间越长，就越坚信：我们必须──不管是经济、医疗、教育还是其他的方面──我们都必须建立好的体制。而体制的欠缺足以摧毁让你们今晚得以坐在这里的联系。回头想想你的人生以及你人生中所面临的种种挑战，在人生中关键的分叉口，你总是知道你的付出与你的收获之间有着一种可以预知的联系。而在一个没有系统的混乱世界里，一切都将变成游击队般的挣扎，所谓的预知性也自然是不复存在了。而拯救生命、教育儿童、发展经济等等梦想都将因此而变得不可能。
en:And the test is: one, will it do the job?Will it provide high quality care?And two, will it do it at a pricethat will enable the country to sustain a health care systemwithout foreign donors after five to 10 years?Because the longer I deal with these problems,the more convinced I am that we have to —whether it&#39;s economics, health, education, whatever —we have to build systems.And the absence of systems that functionbreak the connection which got you all in this seat tonight.You think about whatever your life has been,however many obstacles you have faced in your life,at critical junctures you always knewthere was a predictable connection between the effort you exertedand the result you achieved.In a world with no systems, with chaos,everything becomes a guerilla struggle,and this predictability is not there.And it becomes almost impossible to save lives,educate kids, develop economies, whatever.
时间：12:38
zh-cn:在我看来，在为贫困地区建造医疗保健这一领域最为成功的人士就是 Paul Farmer （保罗·法默医师）。你们中的很多人可能听说过他。在过往二十年里，他和他的团队Partners in Health（健康伙伴）主要是在海地工作。但他们也曾在其他地方工作过，比如俄罗斯和秘鲁。尽管海地是一贫如洗——而且法默医师的诊所所覆盖的治疗区域要远远超过他们的医疗队伍所能承受的范围——尽管如此，自从1988年起，他们手下的病患中，没有一个人死于肺结核。没有一个人。除此之外，他们也取得了很多其他了不起的医疗成就。因此，当我们决定在卢旺达工作，打算大幅度地增加这个国家的收入并且抗击艾滋所带来的问题时，我们想到的是建立一个医疗保健体系，因为卢旺达的医疗体系在1994年的种族屠杀中被彻底摧毁，人均收入仍旧是每天不足一美元。所以我打电话给保罗·法默医师，问他是否可以帮助我。因为当时在我看来，如果我们可以证实有这样的一个体系既可以在海地落实也可以在卢旺达全国性地落实，那么我们就可以， 其一，为这个在过往15年里遭遇了难以想象的磨难的国家做一件善事，其二，我们将拥有一套可以应用在世界上任何一个贫困国家的体系。这就是我们想达到的效果。
en:The person, in my view,who has done the best job of this in the health care area,of building a system in a very poor area, is Dr. Paul Farmer,who, many of you know, has worked for now 20 years with his group,Partners in Health, primarily in Haiti where he started,but they&#39;ve also worked in Russia, in Peruand other places around the world.As poor as Haiti is, in the area where Farmer&#39;s clinic is active —and they serve a catchment area far greaterthan the medical professionals they have would indicate they could serve —since 1988, they have not lost one person to tuberculosis, not one.And they&#39;ve achieved a lot of other amazing health results.So when we decided to work in Rwandaon trying to dramatically increase the income of the country and fight the AIDS problem,we wanted to build a healthcare network,because it had been totally destroyed during the genocide in 1994,and the per capita income was still under a dollar a day.So I rang up, asked Paul Farmer if he would help.Because it seemed to me if we could prove there was a model in Haitiand a model in Rwanda that we could then take all over the country,number one, it would be a wonderful thing for a countrythat has suffered as much as any on Earth in the last 15 years,and number two, we would have something that could then be adaptedto any other poor country anywhere in the world.And so we have set about doing that.
时间：14:15
zh-cn:我们在18个月前开始合作。现在的工作重心是在Southern Kayonza，卢旺达最贫困的地区之一，人口大概是四十万。我们基本上是把保罗·法默在海地的模式应用到了这里。在海地，保罗发展训练了一批全职的社区医疗员工，帮助寻找健康问题、确保艾滋和肺结核患者能及时确诊并且按时服药。同时他们也带去了医疗教育、洁净用水和卫生设备，提供了营养补品，并帮助那些有严重问题的患者寻求更专业的治疗。这一过程，就如我之前所提到的，已经被保罗和他的队伍通过过去20年在海地乡间工作的经验完善，并日趋完美。最近，我们刚刚对过去18个月在卢旺达的努力工作进行了评估。评估的结果是如此的令人满意，以至于卢旺达的政府已经同意在全国范围内实施这一体系，并且会提供采用政府现有的全部资源，来提供必要的支持。
en:Now, we started working together 18 months ago.And we&#39;re working in an area called Southern Kayonza,which is one of the poorest areas in Rwanda,with a group that originally includes about 400,000 people.We&#39;re essentially implementing what Paul Farmer did in Haiti:he develops and trains paid community health workerswho are able to identify health problems,ensure that people who have AIDS or TB are properly diagnosedand take their medicine regularly,who work on bringing about health education, clean water and sanitation,providing nutritional supplements and moving people up the chain of health careif they have problems of the severity that require it.The procedures that make this work have been perfected,as I said, by Paul Farmer and his teamin their work in rural Haiti over the last 20 years.Recently we did an evaluation of the first 18 months of our efforts in Rwanda.And the results were so good that the Rwandan governmenthas now agreed to adopt the model for the entire country,and has strongly supported and put the full resources of the government behind it.
时间：15:40
zh-cn:为了能让你们更好地了解我们的工作，我打算向你们更详尽地介绍我们的团队。我们在全球范围内共有500名员工为我们的艾滋方案工作。他们中的一些人完全是无偿服务，只收取通勤和居住的费用。除此之外，我们还有为其他相关项目工作的人员。我们在卢旺达的工作计划是在Diana Noble的领导下完成的。她是一位不寻常的女士，但对于做这份工作的人来讲，她又显得是那么寻常。在她20岁的时候她已经是伦敦Schroder Ventures投资公司最年轻的合伙人，她也是一项非常成功的电子商业的执行总裁——Reed Elsevier Ventures就是由她创办的。但是在她45岁的时候，她决定要做一些不一样的事情。现如今，她为我们全职工作，却拿很少的薪水。她和她之前的商业伙伴为我们创建了一个业务计划，帮助我们把整个医疗体系发展到全国。而她为此所付出的努力，若放到当初，完全可以为她赚到一大笔钱。
en:I&#39;ll tell you a little bit about our team because it&#39;s indicative of what we do.We have about 500 people around the worldworking in our AIDS program, some of them for nothing —just for transportation, room and board.And then we have others working in these other related programs.Our business plan in Rwandawas put together under the leadership of Diana Noble,who is an unusually gifted woman,but not unusual in the type of people who have been willing to do this kind of work.She was the youngest partner at Schroder Ventures in London in her 20s.She was CEO of a successful e-venture —she started and built Reed Elsevier Ventures —and at 45 she decided she wanted to do something different with her life.So she now works full-time on this for very little pay.She and her team of former business people have created a business planthat will enable us to scale this health system up for the whole country.And it would be worthy of the kind of private equity workshe used to do when she was making a lot more money for it.
时间：16:45
zh-cn:当我们刚刚来到这个地区的时候，五岁以下的儿童有45%因为营养不良而发育不健全。23%在五岁之前夭折。初生婴儿的死亡率超过2.5%。超过15%的成人和儿童死亡是脏水和不完善卫生设备引发的肠道寄生以及腹泻所造成的——完全可以预防和治愈。13%的死亡是呼吸疾病造成的——同样是可以预防和治愈的。在这个地区内，没有一个艾滋或者肺结核患者得到应有的治疗。
en:When we came to this rural area, 45 percent of the children under the age of fivehad stunted growth due to malnutrition.23 percent of them died before they reached the age of five.Mortality at birth was over two-and-a-half percent.Over 15 percent of the deaths among adults and children occurredbecause of intestinal parasites and diarrhea from dirty water and inadequate sanitation —all entirely preventable and treatable.Over 13 percent of the deaths were from respiratory illnesses —again, all preventable and treatable.And not a single soul in this area was being treated for AIDS or tuberculosis.
时间：17:31
zh-cn:而在我们开始的最初18个月里，如下的事情发生了：艾滋病的治疗人数从0上升到了2000，占这个地区需要治疗的人口的80%。不仅如此，少于千分之四的接受治疗的患者因为停止服药或是其他原因而中止治疗，这甚至低于美国的数据——千分之三不到需要转而购买更加昂贵的高级药物。四十万（口误：应该是四万）的怀孕妇女接受了辅导，并将第一次在一个有组织的医疗体系下分娩。大概是全部怀孕数量的43%。大概40%——我前面说是四十万孕妇，应该是四万——大概40%的肺结核患者正接收着治疗，而就在18个月前，这个数字还是0。43%需要婴儿哺育计划来防止营养不良和早死的儿童正接受他们所需要的食物补品来帮助他们生存、生长。
en:Within the first 18 months, the following things happened:we went from zero to about 2,000 people being treated for AIDS.That&#39;s 80 percent of the people who need treatment in this area.Listen to this: less than four-tenths of one percent of those being treatedstopped taking their medicine or otherwise defaulted on treatment.That&#39;s lower than the figure in the United States.Less than three-tenths of one percenthad to transfer to the more expensive second-line drugs.400,000 pregnant women were brought into counselingand will give birth for the first time within an organized healthcare system.That&#39;s about 43 percent of all the pregnancies.About 40 percent of all the people — I said 400,000. I meant 40,000.About 40 percent of all the people who need TB treatment are now getting it —in just 18 months, up from zero when we started.43 percent of the children in need of an infant feeding programto prevent malnutrition and early deathare now getting the food supplements they need to stay alive and to grow.
时间：18:36
zh-cn:我们也帮助他们建立了他们的第一个疟疾医治方案。病患们被送往我们重新装修的在大屠杀中被摧毁的医院，以及新建的四个拥有太阳能发电器和完善的实验室设备的诊所。我们现在一个月治疗325个病人，这还不算所有那些在家接受治疗的艾滋患者。但最重要的一点是，我们采用了保罗的模式，通过社区医疗人员的努力，我们估算这个系统仅需要5%到6%的全国生产总值便可以应用到卢旺达全国的范围内。卢旺达的政府也可以在五、六年后摆脱国际援助，独立维持这一体系。你们中那些懂得医疗经济的人应该都知道所有的富裕国家都在医疗保健上花费9%到11%的国内生产总值。美国除外，我们花费16%——不过我今天没时间来解释这个。（笑声）
en:We&#39;ve started the first malaria treatment programs they&#39;ve ever had there.Patients admitted to a hospital that was destroyed during the genocidethat we have renovated along with four other clinics,complete with solar power generators, good lab technology.We now are treating 325 people a month,despite the fact that almost 100 percent of the AIDS patients are now treated at home.And the most important thing isbecause we&#39;ve implemented Paul Farmer&#39;s model, using community health workers,we estimate that this system could be put into place for all of Rwandafor between five and six percent of GDP,and that the government could sustain thatwithout depending on foreign aid after five or six years.And for those of you who understand healthcare economicsyou know that all wealthy countries spend between nine and 11 percent of GDPon health care, except for the United States, we spend 16 —but that&#39;s a story for another day.(Laughter)
时间：19:48
zh-cn:我们现在正和“健康伙伴”以及卢旺达的卫生部门还有我们的基金会人员合作争取扩大这个系统。我们也开始在马拉维和莱索托实施这一体制。我们在坦桑尼亚、莫桑比克、肯尼亚和埃塞俄比亚都有着类似计划，与其他伙伴合作，达成同样的梦想，最快速地拯救尽可能多的生命，但却是以一个极其系统的方式进行，以便在全国范围内甚至是全世界的范围内得以实施。我们需要先期的投资来培训医生、护士、医疗管理人员以及全国范围内的社区保健人员，来帮忙安排信息技术、太阳能、用水、卫生保健以及运输系统。但在五到十年之内的时间里，我们将减缓对外界援助的需求直到彻底摆脱国际救援。
en:We&#39;re now working with Partners in Health and the Ministry of Health in Rwandaand our Foundation folks to scale this system up.We&#39;re also beginning to do this in Malawi and Lesotho.And we have similar projects in Tanzania, Mozambique,Kenya and Ethiopia with other partners trying to achieve the same thing:to save as many lives as quickly as we can,but to do it in a systematic way that can be implemented nationwideand then with a model that can be implemented in any country in the world.We need initial upfront investment to train doctors, nurses,health administration and community health workers throughout the country,to set up the information technology, the solar energy,the water and sanitation, the transportation infrastructure.But over a five- to 10-year period,we will take down the need for outside assistanceand eventually it will be phased out.
时间：20:42
zh-cn:我的愿景就是希望TED可以帮助我们的工作，帮我们在卢旺达这样贫穷的国家建立起一个高质量的乡村医疗体系，将它当作一个全非洲甚至全世界任何贫穷国家都可以效仿的模型。我相信这将有助我们建立起一个更加融合的世界，更多的合作分子，更少的恐怖分子，更多的生产，更少的仇恨，一个我们希望可以托付给我们的子孙的生长环境。这是我的荣幸，尤其是可以在卢旺达工作。我们现在还在和苏格兰慈善家Sir Tom Hunter合作，开展一个大型的经济计划。就在去年，我们利用我们从艾滋药物那里学来的经验，将化肥的费用以及小额信贷的利率锐减了30%，帮助农民的农作物产量提升了300%到400%。
en:My wish is that TED assist us in our work and help us to builda high-quality rural health system in a poor country, Rwanda,that can be a model for Africa,and indeed, for any poor country anywhere in the world.My belief is that this will help us to build a more integrated worldwith more partners and fewer terrorists,with more productive citizens and fewer haters,a place we&#39;d all want our kids and our grandchildren to grow up in.It has been an honor for me, particularly, to work in Rwandawhere we also have a major economic development projectin partnership with Sir Tom Hunter, the Scottish philanthropist,where last year we, using the same thing with AIDS drugs,cut the cost of fertilizer and the interest rates on microcredit loans by 30 percentand achieved three- to four-hundred percent increasesin crop yields with the farmers.
时间：21:48
zh-cn:这些人都经历了许多，而我们——尤其是我自己——却没能给予他们援助，阻止他们之间的互相残杀。我们现在正努力弥补这一切。而他们也已经摆脱了过去，畅想着未来。而我们也尽可能地以最环保的方式达成这一切。我正尽全力的说服他们，不要将电网直接扯到那些现在还用不上电的、35%的人口，而是应该使用洁净能源，负责任地开始重新植树造林。卢旺达人对他们土壤层的保护工作其实是相当尽责的。有一批从南部农民世家来的人——我到达那个地方所做的第一件事就是弯下腰来，挖挖当地的土壤，看看他们对其作了些什么。
en:These people have been through a lot and none of us, most of all me,helped them when they were on the verge of destroying each other.We&#39;re undoing that now, and they are so over it and so into their future.We&#39;re doing this in an environmentally responsible way.I&#39;m doing my best to convince them not to run the electric gridto the 35 percent of the people that have no access,but to do it with clean energy. To have responsible reforestation projects,the Rwandans, interestingly enough, have been quite good, Mr. Wilson,in preserving their topsoil.There&#39;s a couple of guys from southern farming families —the first thing I did when I went out to this placewas to get down on my hands and knees and dig in the dirtand see what they&#39;d done with it.
时间：22:36
zh-cn:我们现在有这样的一个机会来证实就算是一个曾经几乎自我摧毁的国家也是可以从头再来、重新组织、聚焦未来、依赖最少量的外界援助提供全面、高质量的医疗保健。我对这个大奖感激不尽，并将充分利用它来实现我上述的梦想。我们需要大家的帮助。设想一下，这一切将意味着什么，如果我们可以将世界级的医疗体系带到卢旺达这个人均收入低于每天一美元的国家，利用这个体系拯救上千万的生命，并将其在未来的十年里推广到世界上每一个类似的国家。这值得我们的努力，而且我相信我们可以成功。谢谢你们。上帝保佑大家。（掌声）
en:We have a chance here to prove that a countrythat almost slaughtered itself out of existencecan practice reconciliation, reorganize itself, focus on tomorrowand provide comprehensive, quality health care with minimal outside help.I am grateful for this prize, and I will use it to that end.We could use some more help to do this,but think of what it would mean if we could have a world-class health systemin Rwanda — in a country with a less-than-one-dollar-a-day-per-capita income,one that could save hundreds of millions of livesover the next decade if applied to every similarly situated country on Earth.It&#39;s worth a try and I believe it would succeed.Thank you and God bless you.(Applause)
