时间： 0:11
zh-cn:关于建筑的公开讨论经常是停留在对最终结果的揣摩上，也就是建筑物本身。伦敦最新的塔是像小黄瓜或香肠，还是性用具?
en:The public debate about architecturequite often just stays on contemplating the final result,the architectural object.Is the latest tower in Londona gherkin or a sausageor a sex tool?
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:所以最近我们问自己我们是否可以发明一种模式能够实际上讲述项目背后的故事。也许结合影像、 图画还有文字来讲述关于建筑的故事。我们发现其实我们不用发明这种模式，它已经以漫画书的形式存在了。
en:So recently, we asked ourselvesif we could invent a formatthat could actually tell the stories behind the projects,maybe combining images and drawings and wordsto actually sort of tell stories about architecture.And we discovered that we didn&#39;t have to invent it,it already existed in the form of a comic book.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:所以我们基本上就是复制了漫画书的模式。实际上我们是在讲述背后的故事，我们的项目是如何通过调整而演进的以及如何即兴发挥的。通过混乱和机会以及现实世界的偶然事件。我们管这个漫画书叫“是就是多”。(yes is more这个观念是指，你不是非得反对任何其他人才能成为激进份子，事实上你可以将愉快带入其中。这明显是在我们一些英雄人物的思想基础上的一种进化。
en:So we basically copied the format of the comic bookto actually tell the stories of behind the scenes,how our projects actually evolve through adaptationand improvisation.Sort of through the turmoil and the opportunitiesand the incidents of the real world.We call this comic book &quot;Yes is More,&quot;which is obviously a sort of evolution of the ideas of some of our heroes.
时间： 1:09
zh-cn:在这里就是米斯.范.德罗的“少至无可再上”（即已近极简，再试图减少就是多余了）。他启动了现代主义的革命。他之后紧接着是后现代的反革命，罗伯特.文丘理说“少就是无聊”（即推崇丰富性和矛盾性）。之后菲利普.约翰森宣称（屏幕上出现“我是妓女”）（笑声）你也可以说是放荡，或者至少是开放。以“我是妓女”的姿态面对新思想。最近奥巴马提出了乐观主义，在这个差不多是全球金融危机的时候。
en:In this case it&#39;s Mies van der Rohe&#39;s Less is More.He triggered the modernist revolution.After him followed the post-modern counter-revolution,Robert Venturi saying, &quot;Less is a bore.&quot;After him, Philip Johnson sort of introduced(Laughter)you could say promiscuity, or at least opennessto new ideas with, &quot;I am a whore.&quot;Recently, Obama has introduced optimismat a sort of time of global financial crisis.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:我们用“是就是多”想要表达的，基本上就是试图挑战前卫建筑几乎总是通过反对什么人和什么思想来界定的观点。陈旧的观点认为所谓激进的建筑师就是愤怒的年轻人对现有的秩序进行反叛，或者是被误解的天才因为世界不合他的理想而备受挫折。我们对演进而不是革命更感兴趣，我们认为事物是逐渐演化的，通过自我调整和发挥来适应世界的变化。
en:And what we&#39;d like to say with &quot;Yes is More&quot;is basically trying to question this ideathat the architectural avant-garde is almost always negatively defined,as who or what we are against.The cliche of the radical architectis the sort of angry young man rebelling against the establishment.Or this idea of the misunderstood genius,frustrated that the world doesn&#39;t fit in with his or her ideas.Rather than revolution, we&#39;re much more interested in evolution,this idea that things gradually evolveby adapting and improvisingto the changes of the world.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:实际上，我认为达尔文才是最好的阐述了我们的设计流程的人之一。他著名的进化树几乎可以当作我们工作的图解。如你所见，一个项目通过一系列分代的设计会议演进。每次例会都有太多的创意。只有最好那些的才能保留下来。通过一个建筑筛选的过程我们可能选择一个非常漂亮的模型也可能选择功能性很强的模型。我们让它们互相杂交，它们就有了突变的后代。通过这样代代演进的设计会议我们抵达了最终的设计方案。
en:In fact, I actually think that Darwin is one of the peoplewho best explains our design process.His famous evolutionary treecould almost be a diagram of the way we work.As you can see, a project evolves througha series of generations of design meetings.At each meeting, there&#39;s way too many ideas.Only the best ones can survive.And through a process of architectural selection,we might choose a really beautiful modelor we might have a very functional model.We mate them. They have sort of mutant offspring.And through these sort of generations of design meetingswe arrive at a design.
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:可以用我们做过的一个项目来非常贴切的展示这个过程，这个项目包括哥本哈根的一个图书馆和酒店。设计过程非常艰难，几乎就像是为生存而抗争。但是逐渐的想法在演进。这是一个理性之塔 (演讲者口误，实际应为旋转的塔 rotational tower)与周边城市环境的融合。也就是把公共空间扩展到我们所说的一个北欧版的罗马西班牙台阶。但是除了外面是公共空间，内部也有公共空间作为图书馆。
en:A very literal way of showing it is a project we didfor a library and a hotel in Copenhagen.The design process was really tough,almost like a struggle for survival,but gradually an idea evolved:this sort of idea of a rational towerthat melts together with the surrounding city,sort of expanding the public space onto what we refer to asa Scandinavian version of the Spanish Steps in Rome,but sort of public on the outside, as well as on the inside,with the library.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:但是达尔文不仅解释了一个单独创意的进化。就像这里看到的，有时候一些亚种形成了分支。经常在设计讨论中间我们发现一个很好的想法，可能并不适合现有的情形，但是对另外一个有着不同文化背景的客户来说这可能是对另一个不同问题的正确解答。所以，我们从来不抛弃任何东西。我们把办公室几乎当成了建筑生态多样化的档案室。你永远不知道你什么时候可能用得着。
en:But Darwin doesn&#39;t only explain the evolution of a single idea.As you can see, sometimes a subspecies branches off.And quite often we sit in a design meetingand we discover that there is this great idea.It doesn&#39;t really work in this context.But for another client in another culture,it could really be the right answer to a different question.So as a result, we never throw anything out.We keep our office almost like an archiveof architectural biodiversity.You never know when you might need it.
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:我们现在想要做的是，以飞快的速度，讲两个项目是如何演进的，通过对偶发事件的自由发挥和自我调适。第一个故事始于去年我们去上海参加丹麦2010年世博会的国家展馆的设计竞赛。我们见到了这个家伙，海宝。他是博览会的吉祥物。看起来出奇的眼熟。实际上他看上去像我们设计的一个瑞典北部的酒店。当我们向瑞典业主提交那个方案的时候我们觉得它确实是一个很酷的方案，但是实际上并不像瑞典北部的东西。瑞典的评委也不这么看，所以我们落选了。
en:And what I&#39;d like to do now, in an act ofwarp-speed storytelling,is tell the story of how two projects evolvedby adapting and improvisingto the happenstance of the world.The first story starts last year when we went to Shanghaito do the competition for the DanishNational Pavilion for the World Expo in 2010.And we saw this guy, Haibao.He&#39;s the mascot of the expo,and he looks strangely familiar.In fact he looked like a building we had designedfor a hotel in the north of Sweden.When we submitted it for the Swedish competition we thoughtit was a really cool scheme, but it didn&#39;t exactlylook like something from the north of Sweden.The Swedish jury didn&#39;t think so either. So we lost.
时间： 4:21
zh-cn:但是之后我们见了一个中国商人，他看到了我们的设计并且说：“哇，这是汉字里的人字。”（笑声）很显然，在中国“人”字是这样写的。我们甚至还专门确认了一下。与此同时，我们也被邀请参加在上海创意产业周举行的展览。我们觉得这真是一个机会。于是我们雇了一个风水大师。我们按照中文的比例把建筑放大了三倍，然后去了中国。（笑声）我们管它叫人民的楼。这是我们的两个翻译员，对建筑的解读。
en:But then we had a meeting with a Chinese businessmanwho saw our design and said,&quot;Wow, that&#39;s the Chinese character for the word &#39;people.&#39;&quot;(Laughter)So, apparently this is how you write &quot;people,&quot;as in the People&#39;s Republic of China.We even double checked.And at the same time, we got invited to exhibitat the Shanghai Creative Industry Week.So we thought like, this is too much of an opportunity,so we hired a feng shui master.We scaled the building up three times to Chinese proportions,and went to China.(Laughter)So the People&#39;s Building, as we called it.This is our two interpreters, sort of reading the architecture.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:它上了文汇报的头版。这吸引了上海市长陈良宇去参观展览。我们也有机会解释这个项目。他说，“上海是世界上摩天楼最多的城市。”但是对他来说与根脉的联系好像被切断了。通过人民的楼他看到了一种可以将古代中国的智慧与未来中国前进沟通的建筑。所以我们当然很深刻地表示同意。（笑声）（掌声）不幸的是陈先生现在因为腐败已经进了监狱。（笑声）
en:It went on the cover of the Wen Wei Po newspaper,which got Mr. Liangyu Chen, the mayor of Shanghai,to visit the exhibition.And we had the chance to explain the project.And he said, &quot;Shanghai is the city in the worldwith most skyscrapers,&quot;but to him it was as if the connection to the roots had been cut over.And with the People&#39;s Building, he saw an architecturethat could bridge the gap between the ancient wisdom of Chinaand the progressive future of China.So we obviously profoundly agreed with him.(Laughter)(Applause)Unfortunately, Mr. Chen is now in prison for corruption.(Laughter)
时间： 5:44
zh-cn:不过正如我说的，海宝看上去非常熟悉，因为他实际上是汉字中的人。他们选择这个做为吉祥物是因为博览会的主题是“城市，让生活更美好。”可持续发展。我们觉得可持续发展已经变成这种清教徒式的想法，一定要经受痛苦才能积善。
en:But like I said, Haibao looked very familiar,because he is actually the Chinese character for &quot;people.&quot;And they chose this mascot becausethe theme of the expo is &quot;Better City, Better Life.&quot;Sustainability.And we thought, sustainability has grown into beingthis sort of neo-Protestant ideathat it has to hurt in order to do good.
时间： 6:03
zh-cn:你知道，你不应该冲太长时间的热水澡，你不应该乘飞机去度假，因为破坏环境，逐渐的你就会形成这种想法，可持续性的生活比正常的生活要少一些乐趣。所以我们想把重点放在一些实例上也许比较有趣，来展示一个可持续发展的城市实际上提升了生活的质量。
en:You know, you&#39;re not supposed to take long, warm showers.You&#39;re not supposed to fly on holidays because it&#39;s bad for the environment.Gradually, you get this idea that sustainable lifeis less fun than normal life.So we thought that maybe it could be interesting to focus on exampleswhere a sustainable cityactually increases the quality of life.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:我们也问自己丹麦有什么可以展示给中国的而且是相关的？一个是世界上最大的国家之一，一个是最小的。中国以龙为象征；丹麦，我们有国鸟，天鹅。（笑声）中国有很多伟大的诗人。
en:We also asked ourselves, what could Denmark possibly show Chinathat would be relevant?You know, it&#39;s one of the biggest countries in the world, one of the smallest.China symbolized by the dragon.Denmark, we have a national bird, the swan.(Laughter)China has many great poets,
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:但是我们发现在人民共和国公立学校的课程里，他们有三篇安徒生写的童话，我们叫汉斯.克里斯蒂安.安德森。这也就是说13亿中国人都是读皇帝的新装、卖火柴的小女孩、小美人鱼长大的。这几乎就是丹麦文化的一个片段整合到了中国文化里。
en:but we discovered that in the People&#39;s Republicpublic school curriculum,they have three fairy tales by An Tu Sheng,or Hans Christian Anderson, as we call him.So that means that all 1.3 billion Chinesehave grown up with &quot;The Emperor&#39;s New Clothes,&quot;&quot;The Matchstick Girl&quot; and &quot;The Little Mermaid.&quot;It&#39;s almost like a fragment of Danish cultureintegrated into Chinese culture.
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:中国游客最多的景点是长城，长城是唯一能在月球上看到的东西。丹麦最有名的景点是小美人鱼，在运河的游览路线中几乎看不见。（笑声）
en:The biggest tourist attraction in China is the Great Wall.The Great Wall is the only thing that can be seen from the moon.The big tourist attraction in Denmark is The Little Mermaid.That can actually hardly be seen from the canal tours.(Laughter)
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:这也算是体现了两个城市的不同，哥本哈根和上海，现代的，欧洲的。但是我们又观察了最近的城市建设，我们注意到这就像是30年前，上海的街道。全是自行车，没有小汽车。这是现在的样子，全是交通堵赛。很多地方禁止通行自行车。
en:And it sort of shows the difference between these two cities.Copenhagen, Shanghai,modern, European.But then we looked at recent urban development,and we noticed that this is like a Shanghai street,30 years ago. All bikes, no cars.This is how it looks today; all traffic jam.Bicycles have become forbidden many places.
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:这时候在哥本哈根我们实际上在拓宽自行车道，三分之一的人骑车通勤。我们有一种免费自行车系统叫做城市自行车，如果你造访这个城市可以借来骑。所以我们想，为什么不把自行车重新引入中国？我们给上海捐了1000辆自行车。所以如果你来到世博会，直接去丹麦馆取一辆丹麦自行车，然后骑车继续参观其他馆。
en:Meanwhile, in Copenhagen we&#39;re actually expanding the bicycle lanes.A third of all the people commute by bike.We have a free system of bicycles called the City Bikethat you can borrow if you visit the city.So we thought, why don&#39;t we reintroduce the bicycle in China?We donate 1,000 bikes to Shanghai.So if you come to the expo, go straight to the Danish pavilion,get a Danish bike, and then continue on that to visit the other pavilions.
时间： 7:56
zh-cn:正如我说过的，上海和哥本哈根都是港口城市。但是在哥本哈根，水很清，你甚至可以在里面游泳。我们做的最早的一批项目之一就是哥本哈根海港浴，也可以说是公共领域扩展到了水域。我们觉得这种展览往往包含了很多国家资助的宣传，图片，声明，但是没有真正的体验。就像是有一辆单车，我们不是去谈论它，因为你可以试骑。比如关于水，与其只是口头谈论，我们要把一百万升港口的水从哥本哈根船运到上海。所以有胆量的中国人可以跳进去，感受一下水有多清。
en:Like I said, Shanghai and Copenhagen are both port cities,but in Copenhagen the water has gotten so cleanthat you can actually swim in it.One of the first projects we ever didwas the harbor bath in Copenhagen,sort of continuing the public realm into the water.So we thought that these expos quite often have a lot ofstate financed propaganda,images, statements, but no real experience.So just like with a bike, we don&#39;t talk about it.You can try it.Like with the water, instead of talking about it,we&#39;re going to sail a million liters of harbor waterfrom Copenhagen to Shanghai,so the Chinese who have the courage can actually dive inand feel how clean it is.
时间： 8:32
zh-cn:这部分是人们通常会反对的，听上去不是很环保，从哥本哈根运水到中国。但实际上货船载满货物从中国到丹麦，然后空船返回，经常要装水来稳定船只。所以我们实际上可以免费搭船。
en:This is where people normally object that it doesn&#39;t sound very sustainableto sail water from Copenhagen to China.But in fact, the container ships gofull of goods from China to Denmark,and then they sail empty back.So quite often you load water for ballast.So we can actually hitch a ride for free.
时间： 8:50
zh-cn:而且在这个海港浴的中间，我们要把真的小美人鱼放进去，就是真的美人鱼，真的水，真的自行车。当她离开后，我们会请一个中国艺术家重新诠释她。这个展馆建筑是一种环形的展览和自行车流。你去看展览的时候你会见到美人鱼和水池，你四处走动，开始在屋顶上寻找自行车，跳上车你就可以继续去看其他展馆。
en:And in the middle of this sort of harbor bath,we&#39;re actually going to put the actual Little Mermaid.So the real Mermaid, the real water, and the real bikes.And when she&#39;s gone, we&#39;re going to invitea Chinese artist to reinterpret her.The architecture of the pavilion is this sort of loopof exhibition and bikes.When you go to the exhibition, you&#39;ll see the Mermaid and the pool.You&#39;ll walk around, start looking for a bicycle on the roof,jump on your ride and then continue out into the rest of the expo.
时间： 9:17
zh-cn:因此，当我们赢得竞赛的时候，我们必须得在中国搞个展览解释这个项目，令我们吃惊的是我们的一块展板被退回来了，经过了中国国家审查机构的更改。第一条，中国地图少了台湾。这在中国是一个严肃的政治问题。我们会把它加上。第二条，我们把天鹅与龙相比较，中国官方说，“建议改成熊猫。”（笑声）（掌声）
en:So when we actually won the competitionwe had to do an exhibition in China explaining the project.And to our surprise we got one of our boards backwith corrections from the Chinese state censorship.The first thing, the China map missed Taiwan.It&#39;s a very serious political issue in China. We will add on.The second thing, we had compared the swan to the dragon,and then the Chinese state said,&quot;Suggest change to panda.&quot;(Laughter)(Applause)
时间： 9:47
zh-cn:当有消息从丹麦公布出来说我们要把我们的历史遗迹移走的时候，国家人民党对此极为反对，他们要通过一项法案反对搬动美人鱼。所以我有生以来第一次到国会发言。这是件挺有趣的事，因为从早上9点到11点他们在讨论救市计划，要花多少亿投资挽救丹麦经济，11点他们停止讨论这些小问题。从11点到一点，他们在争论是否要把美人鱼送到中国去。（笑声）（掌声）
en:So, when it came out in Denmark that we were actually going tomove our national monument,the National People&#39;s Party sort of rebelled against it.They tried to pass a law against moving the Mermaid.So for the first time, I got invited to speak at the National Parliament.It was kind of interesting because in the morning, from 9 to 11,they were discussing the bailout package —how many billions to invest in saving the Danish economy.And then at 11 o&#39;clock they stopped talking about these little issues.And then from 11 to 1,they were debating whether or not to send the Mermaid to China.(Laughter)(Applause)
时间：10:25
zh-cn:总之结论就是，如果你想在明年五月到十二月之间看到美人鱼，别到哥本哈根来，因为她要去上海。如果你确实来到哥本哈根，你可能看到那个中国艺术家艾未未的装置艺术，但是如果是中国政府干涉的话那可能会是一个熊猫。（笑声）
en:But to conclude, if you want to see the Mermaid from May to Decembernext year, don&#39;t come to Copenhagen,because she&#39;s going to be in Shanghai.If you do come to Copenhagen,you will probably see an installation by Ai Weiwei, the Chinese artist.But if the Chinese government intervenes, it might even be a panda.(Laughter)
时间：10:45
zh-cn:我想讲的第二个故事恰好从我自己的房子开始。这是我的公寓。这是从我的公寓看出去的景观，在三角形的阳台上，我们的客户管它们叫莱昂纳多.迪卡布里奥阳台。它们形成了这种垂直的后花园。在这儿，在一个美好的夏日，你可以被引荐给你所有的在上下十米半径之内邻居。这个房子是一种方块的变形，试图通过左右扭曲来确保所有的公寓单元都有向外的景观，而不是互相看到对方的房间里。
en:So the second story that I&#39;d like to tellis, actually starts in my own house.This is my apartment.This is the view from my apartment,over the sort of landscape of triangular balconiesthat our client called the Leonardo DiCaprio balcony.And they form this sort of vertical backyardwhere, on a nice summer day, you&#39;ll actually get introduced to all your neighborsin a vertical radius of 10 meters.The house is sort of a distortion of a square block.Trying to zigzag it to make surethat all of the apartments look at the straight views,instead of into each other.
时间：11:22
zh-cn:不久前这还是我住所的景色，直到我们的客户买下了毗邻的位置。他说他要做一个公寓区，与停车场相隔。我们想与其建一个传统的多层公寓，向外看只能看到一堆无聊的汽车，为什么不能把所有的公寓单元都变成顶层公寓，把它们变成这堆小汽车的指挥台。
en:Until recently, this was the view from my apartment,onto this place where our client actually bought the neighbor site.And he said that he was going to do an apartment blocknext to a parking structure.And we thought, rather than doing a traditional stack of apartmentslooking straight into a big boring block of cars,why don&#39;t we turn all the apartments into penthouses,put them on a podium of cars.
时间：11:45
zh-cn:而且因为哥本哈根完全是平的，如果你想要一套有景的南坡，你基本上得自己动手。然后我们稍许削减了一点体积，这样不至于把我自己公寓的景色挡住。（笑声）停车基本上是占据深度空间，在公寓楼的下面。
en:And because Copenhagen is completely flat,if you want to have a nice south-facing slope with a view,you basically have to do it yourself.Then we sort of cut up the volume,so we wouldn&#39;t block the view from my apartment.(Laughter)And essentially the parking is sort of occupying the deep spaceunderneath the apartments.
时间：12:05
zh-cn:在阳光下，你就像是有一个单层公寓，结合了所有郊区生活方式的精彩之处，好像一座有花园的小房又有城市景观，在一个稠密的城区位置。这是我们第一个建筑模型。这是去年夏天拍得鸟瞰照片，基本上公寓楼覆盖了停车场，通过这个斜角的电梯进入停车场。这实际是个靠得住的瑞士产品，因为在瑞士他们对斜角电梯有天然的需求。（笑声）
en:And up in the sun, you have a single layer of apartmentsthat combine all the splendors of a suburban lifestyle,like a house with a garden with a sort of metropolitan view,and a sort of dense urban location.This is our first architectural model.This is an aerial photo taken last summer.And essentially, the apartments cover the parking.They are accessed through this diagonal elevator.It&#39;s actually a stand-up product from Switzerland,because in Switzerland they have a natural need for diagonal elevators.(Laughter)
时间：12:37
zh-cn:在停车场的正面，我们想把它做成自然通风。所以我们需要再上面打孔。我们发现通过控制孔的大小，我们实际上可以把整个正立面变成一个巨大的自然通风的，点阵图片。而且由于我们总是管这个项目叫那山，我们请了这个日本喜马拉雅摄影师给我们拍了这张美丽的珠峰照片，把整个楼变成了3000平米的艺术作品。（掌声）
en:And the facade of the parking,we wanted to make the parking naturally ventilated,so we needed to perforate it.And we discovered that by controlling the size of the holes,we could actually turn the entire facadeinto a gigantic, naturally ventilated,rasterized image.And since we always refer to the project as The Mountain,we commissioned this Japanese Himalaya photographerto give us this beautiful photo of Mount Everest,making the entire building a 3,000 square meter artwork.(Applause)
时间：13:11
zh-cn:所以如果你回到停车场，进入走廊，几乎就像是在另一个完全不同的宇宙里旅行，从轿车和各种颜色，到这种朝南的都市绿洲。你公寓的树长到外面成为这种立面。如果长得再茂盛它就会变成绿色花园。所有落在那山上的雨水，都被收集起来，有一个自动灌溉系统确保这种花园景观，经过一两年的时间会变成像柬埔寨损毁的寺庙，完全被绿色覆盖。
en:So if you go back into the parking, into the corridors,it&#39;s almost like traveling into a parallel universefrom cars and colors,into this sort of south-facing urban oasis.The wood of your apartment continues outside becoming the facades.If you go even further, it turns into this green garden.And all the rainwater that drops on the Mountainis actually accumulated.And there is an automatic irrigation systemthat makes sure that this sort of landscape of gardens,in one or two years it will sort of transforminto a Cambodian temple ruin,completely covered in green.
时间：13:44
zh-cn:那山是我们头一个建成的样板，我们喜欢称之为建筑合金。这种概念是，你如果不能创造金子，至少可以通过混合传统元素，比如普通的公寓和普通的停车场来增加价值。这个例子实际给人们提供了一个不必非得从生活在花园还是生活在城市之间做出选择的机会。他们实际上可以同时拥有这两种东西。
en:So, the Mountain is like our first built exampleof what we like to refer to as architectural alchemy.This idea that you can actually create, if not gold,then at least added value by mixingtraditional ingredients, like normal apartmentsand normal parking,and in this case actually offer peoplethe chance that they don&#39;t have to choose betweena life with a garden or a life in the city.They can actually have both.
时间：14:08
zh-cn:作为一名建筑师要制定计划确实很困难。你不能凭空说我现在想在中亚创造一个可持续发展的城市。因为接活确实不是这么接的。你总是要自我调整自我发挥以适应发生的机会和事件以及混乱的世界。
en:As an architect, it&#39;s really hard to set the agenda.You can&#39;t just say that now I&#39;d like to do a sustainable cityin central Asia,because that&#39;s not really how you get commissions.You always have to sort of adapt and improviseto the opportunities and accidents that happen,and the sort of turmoil of the world.
时间：14:29
zh-cn:最后一个例子是我们最近，也就是去年夏天赢了一个竞赛，设计一个北欧国家银行。这是这家银行的总监，那时候他还能笑得出来，（笑声）这正是首都的中心，所以我们对这个机会非常激动。不幸的是这是冰岛国家银行。
en:One last example is that recently we,like last summer, we won the competitionto design a Nordic national bank.This was the director of the bank when he was still smiling.(Laughter)It was in the middle of the capital so we were really excited by this opportunity.Unfortunately, it was the national bank of Iceland.
时间：14:51
zh-cn:这同时我们还有一个访客，阿塞拜疆的一个部长来到我们的事务所。我们带他看那山，他非常兴奋，见到有这种可以用建筑来造山的创意，因为阿塞拜疆被认为是中亚的阿尔卑斯。他问我们是否可以想象出一个这样的城市规划：在首都城外的一个岛上重新创造出阿塞拜疆七座名山的形态。
en:At the same time, we actually had a visitor —a minister from Azerbaijan came to our office.We took him to see the Mountain. And he got very excitedby this idea that you could actually make mountainsout of architecture,because Azerbaijan is known as the Alps of Central Asia.So he asked us if we could actually imaginean urban master planon an island outside the capitalthat would recreate the silhouette of the seven most significant mountainsof Azerbaijan.
时间：15:18
zh-cn:我们接了这个项目，而且我们制作了这个小影片，我想给大家放一下。我们经常制作这种小电影。我们总是对配乐争论不休。不过在这个项目里选择曲子却很容易。基本上巴库是一个月牙湾，俯瞰着奇拉岛，也就是我们要规划的岛。几乎就像是他们国旗的形状。我们主要的创意是对阿塞拜疆的七座大山进行采样，按照地形然后在城市和建筑结构上对此重新诠释，并适合人居住。然后我们把这些山放到岛上去，把中心围成绿色山谷，就像是中央公园。
en:So we took the commission.And we made this small movie that I&#39;d like to show.We quite often make little movies.We always argue a lot about the soundtrack,but in this case it was really easy to choose the song.So basically, Baku is this sort of crescent bayoverlooking the island of Zira, the island that we are planning —almost like the diagram of their flag.And our main idea wasto sort of sample the seven most significant mountainsof the topography of Azerbaijanand reinterpret them into urban and architectural structures,inhabitable of human life.Then we place these mountains on the island,surrounding this sort of central green valley,almost like a central park.
时间：16:06
zh-cn:有意思的是这个岛现在只是一片沙漠。没有植被。没有水，没有能源，没有资源。所以我们实际上把整个岛设计成一个生态系统，利用风能驱动海水淡化工厂，并且利用水的热效应来加热和冷却建筑。所有的多余的淡水和废水都被有机地过滤到园林景观，逐渐将荒漠岛屿改变成一个绿色的茂盛的景观。
en:And what makes it interesting is that the island right nowis just a piece of desert. It has no vegetation.It has no water. It has no energy, no resources.So we actually sort of designed the entire island as a single ecosystem,exploiting wind energy to drive the desalination plants,and to use the thermal properties of waterto heat and cool the buildings.And all the sort of excess freshwater wastewateris filtered organically into the landscape,gradually transforming the desert islandinto sort of a green, lush landscape.
时间：16:38
zh-cn:所以你可以说一个城市建设项目一般都是以牺牲自然为代价，在这个项目中实际上在创造自然。这些楼房不仅引发山的联想，它们也像山一样运转，它们提供避风的场所，存储太阳能，积累水，所以它们实际上把整个岛转变成一个完整的生态系统
en:So, you can say where an urban developmentnormally happens at the expense of nature,in this case it&#39;s actually creating nature.And the buildings, they don&#39;t only sort ofinvoke the imagery of the mountains,they also operate like mountains.They create shelter from the wind.They accumulate the solar energy.They accumulate the water.So they actually transform the entire islandinto a single ecosystem.
时间：17:10
zh-cn:我们最近提交了规划方案。并且获得了批准。这个夏天我们要开始头两座山的施工文档，在这个即将成为碳中和的岛上，在中亚。（掌声）也许做个圆满的总结，你可以看到哥本哈根的山如何演进成阿塞拜疆的七座山峰。通过一点运气加上进一步的进化，也许十年后它们可以成为火星上的五座山。谢谢你们。（掌声）
en:So we recently presented the master plan,and it has gotten approved.And this summer we are starting the construction documentsof the two first mountains,in what&#39;s going to be the first carbon-neutral islandin Central Asia.(Applause)Yes, maybe just to round off.So in a way you can see how the Mountain in Copenhagensort of evolved into the Seven Peaks of Azerbaijan.With a little luck and some more evolution,maybe in 10 years it could be the Five Mountains on Mars.Thank you.(Applause)
