时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这里我想谈谈词汇的力量。圣战（jihad）
en:I&#39;m going to talk about the power of a word:jihad.
时间： 0:18
zh-cn:对于大多数穆斯林来说圣战是为坚守信仰而经历的内心抗争。是发自内心地抗争邪恶、罪恶、诱惑，肉欲和贪婪。是努力过上可兰经道德准则下的生活。在原始教义中，圣战之于穆斯林就如同主恩（grace）之于基督教徒那样重要。从这个的角度来看，圣战，是一个非常有力的词汇，能唤起某种几近神秘的共鸣。这也是为什么，数百年以来，世界各地的穆斯林，纷纷为自己的女儿或儿子起名为圣战（Jihad），就好比基督教徒为自己女儿起名Grace（圣恩），又好比我们印度教徒为自己女儿起名Bhakti(巴克缇），也就是梵语中精神崇拜的意思。
en:To the vast majority of practicing Muslims,jihad is an internal struggle for the faith.It is a struggle within, a struggle against vice, sin,temptation, lust, greed.It is a struggle to try and live a lifethat is set by the moral codes written in the Koran.In that original idea, the concept of jihad is as importantto Muslims as the idea of grace is to Christians.It&#39;s a very powerful word, jihad, if you look at it in that respect,and there&#39;s a certain almost mystical resonance to it.And that&#39;s the reason why, for hundreds of years,Muslims everywhere have named their children Jihad,their daughters as much as their sons, in the same waythat, say, Christians name their daughters Grace,and Hindus, my people, name our daughters Bhakti,which means, in Sanskrit, spiritual worship.
时间： 1:24
zh-cn:但在伊斯兰人群中，总是有一小群人，少数人，认为圣战不仅是内心的抗争，而是对外的斗争，用来对抗任何威胁到他们信仰，或者信众的力量。其中有些人还认为这样的斗争中，可以拿起武器。于是数千名年轻的穆斯林在1980年代聚集到阿富汗与占领穆斯林国家的苏联作战，在他们心中，这才是圣战，是护教战争，他们把自己称为穆斯林圣战游击队，用的就是和圣战（Jihad）一样的词根。如今，我们已经忘记了这些，但是当年穆斯林圣战游击队在这个国家，在美国都受到颂扬。我们认为他们是与共产主义异教徒进行正义战争的圣战勇士。美国给枪，给钱，给予他们支持与鼓励。
en:But there have always been, in Islam, a small group,a minority, who believe that jihadis not only an internal struggle but also an external struggleagainst forces that would threaten the faith, or the faithul.And some of these people believe that in that struggle,it is sometimes okay to take up arms.And so the thousands of young Muslim menwho flocked to Afghanistan in the 1980sto fight against the Soviet occupation of a Muslim country,in their minds they were fighting a jihad,they were doing jihad,and they named themselves the Mujahideen,which is a word that comes from the same root as jihad.And we forget this now, but back thenthe Mujahideen were celebrated in this country, in America.We thought of them as holy warriors who were takingthe good fight to the ungodly communists.America gave them weapons, gave them money,gave them support, encouragement.
时间： 2:26
zh-cn:但是就在这群人中，更小一小撮，少之又少的一小撮，正在形成一个全新而危险的圣战的概念，那个时候，这群人的领袖就是奥萨马本拉登。他重新定义了这个概念。他关于圣战的概念是全球的恐怖主义战争，主要是针对自己的死敌，从十字军到西方世界，反对美国。他在追求圣战时的所作所为令人发指，并且影响力巨大，他的定义不仅限于本地，而且剑指西方世界。我们对此知之甚少。我们也没有更多的关注。我们只是认为如果这个疯狂的人和他狂热的追随者把他们的行为称为圣战，便以为圣战就是他们说的意思。但是，不光是我们，就是穆斯林世界，他对于圣战的定义都开始得到认可。
en:But within that group, a tiny, smaller group,a minority within a minority within a minority,were coming up with a new and dangerousconception of jihad,and in time this group would come to be led by Osama bin Laden,and he refined the idea.His idea of jihad was a global war of terror,primarily targeted at the far enemy,at the crusaders from the West, against America.And the things he did in the pursuit of this jihadwere so horrendous, so monstrous,and had such great impact,that his definition was the one that stuck,not just here in the West.We didn&#39;t know any better. We didn&#39;t pause to ask.We just assumed that if this insane man and his psychopathic followerswere calling what they did jihad, then that&#39;s what jihad must mean.But it wasn&#39;t just us. Even in the Muslim world,his definition of jihad began to gain acceptance.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:一年以前我在突尼斯，我在一个很小的清真寺遇到了一个阿訇一位老人。在十五年前，他给自己的孙女起名Jihad（圣战），当然用的是原来的涵义。他希望这样的名字能够在孙女的精神世界鼓舞她。但是他告诉我，在911之后，他想法变了。他担心如果他还叫她这个名字，特别是在大庭广众之下叫，他可能会被认为是支持本拉登对圣战的理念。每个周五在他的清真寺，他布道的时候都试图重申这个词的原意，但是他的教众，那些到清真寺来的人，他们都看到了那些视频。都看到了飞机撞向世贸大厦，大厦倒塌的画面。他们都听到本拉登把这个称为圣战，并称之为胜利。这位老人非常担心他自己的说法如对牛弹琴，无人注意。
en:A year ago I was in Tunis, and I met the imamof a very small mosque, an old man.Fifteen years ago, he named his granddaughter Jihad,after the old meaning. He hoped that a name like thatwould inspire her to live a spiritual life.But he told me that after 9/11,he began to have second thoughts.He worried that if he called her by that name,especially outdoors, outside in public,he might be seen as endorsing bin Laden&#39;s idea of jihad.On Fridays in his mosque, he gave sermonstrying to reclaim the meaning of the word,but his congregants, the people who came to his mosque,they had seen the videos. They had seen picturesof the planes going into the towers, the towers coming down.They had heard bin Laden say that that was jihad,and claimed victory for it. And so the old imam worriedthat his words were falling on deaf ears. No one was paying attention.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:但是他错了，人们认真聆听，但却是另有原因。当时的美国，正在给阿拉伯国联盟国家，包括突尼斯施加压力，要求他们清除社会中的极端势力，这位阿訇发现自己突然被突尼斯情报部门给盯上了。之前他们从来关注过这位老人，这么小的一个清真寺，但是现在他们开始频繁拜访，有时候还会拉着他问一些问题，其中总会有这个同样的问题：为什么给你孙女起名叫Jihad（圣战）为什么在你周五布道是总是提到圣战这个词？你恨美国人吗？你和奥萨马本拉登什么关系？
en:He was wrong. Some people were paying attention,but for the wrong reasons.The United States, at this point, was putting pressureon all its Arab allies, including Tunisia,to stamp out extremism in their societies,and this imam found himself suddenly in the crosshairsof the Tunisian intelligence service.They had never paid him any attention before —old man, small mosque —but now they began to pay visits,and sometimes they would drag him in for questions,and always the same question:&quot;Why did you name your granddaughter Jihad?Why do you keep using the word jihad in your Friday sermons?Do you hate Americans?What is your connection to Osama bin Laden?&quot;
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:在突尼斯情报部门看来，或者在阿拉伯世界的类似机构看来，圣战等同于极端主义，本拉登下的定义已经鸠占鹊巢。这就是词汇的力量，也是他能做到的事情。这个让这位阿訇老人非常伤心。他说，在他看来，没有引起足够关注的是，因为本拉登的罪恶行径，这个词的美好涵义被剥夺。就好像这个词被绑架，被糟蹋，或者被迫堕落一样变成了它从来不应该成为的东西，并且说服我们所有人，这个词从来就是全球性圣战的意思。
en:So to the Tunisian intelligence agency,and organizations like it all over the Arab world,jihad equaled extremism,Bin Laden&#39;s definition had become institutionalized.That was the power of that word that he was able to do.And it filled this old imam, it filled him with great sadness.He told me that, of bin Laden&#39;s many crimes, this was,in his mind, one that didn&#39;t get enough attention,that he took this word, this beautiful idea.He didn&#39;t so much appropriate it as kidnapped itand debased it and corrupted itand turned it into something it was never meant to be,and then persuaded all of us that it always wasa global jihad.
时间： 6:10
zh-cn:但是好消息是本拉登定义的全球性圣战这个概念已经终结。在他被击毙之前这个定义已经快要消亡了，现在更是行将就木。在穆斯林中的调查显示在穆斯林当中对于西方世界，对于死敌的全球性圣战已经没有什么市场了。愿意为之战斗并献身的年轻人越来越少。同样重要，甚至是也许更重要的，是对于这种行为的资助也越来越少。那些之前资助这些活动的极端狂热的富翁们也没有原来那么大方了。
en:But the good news isthat the global jihad is almost over, as bin Laden defined it.It was dying well before he did,and now it&#39;s on its last legs.Opinion polls from all over the Muslim world showthat there is very little interest among Muslimsin a global holy war against the West,against the far enemy.The supply of young men willing to fight and die for this cause is dwindling.The supply of money — just as important, more important perhaps —the supply of money to this activity is also dwindling.The wealthy fanatics who were previouslysponsoring this kind of activity are now less generous.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:这对我们西方来说意味着什么呢？这是不是说我们就可以打开香槟，洗洗手，放松下来，然后安心睡个好觉了？放松是不行的，因为你如果让地区性圣战生存下来，就会变成国际圣战。而且，现在各种各样的暴力圣战出现在世界各地。在索马里，在马里，在尼日利亚，在伊拉克，在阿富汗，巴基斯坦，众多组织继承了奥萨马本拉登的衣钵。他们仍然运用他的伎俩。他们甚至就用他给自己的圣战所采用的名号。在伊斯兰马格里布有个基地组织，在阿拉伯半岛有个基地组织，在美索不达米亚也有个基地组织。还有其他的组织，如尼日利亚的博科圣地组织，索马里的青年党，他们都宣布效忠奥萨马本拉登。但是如果你仔细研究，他们根本就不是所谓全球性圣战。他们都是为更小的一些事情而战。通常都和民族，种族或教派之争相关，或者仅仅是权力斗争。通常都是一个国家，甚至是某国局部地区的权力斗争。有时他们也会跨越国境，从伊拉克到叙利亚，从马里到阿尔及利亚，从索马里到肯尼亚，他们并不是为反对远方的敌人而进行的圣战。
en:What does that mean for us in the West?Does it mean we can break out the champagne,wash our hands of it, disengage, sleep easy at night?No. Disengagement is not an option,because if you let local jihad survive,it becomes international jihad.And so there&#39;s now a lot of differentviolent jihads all over the world.In Somalia, in Mali, in Nigeria,in Iraq, in Afghanistan, Pakistan, there are groups that claimto be the inheritors of the legacy of Osama bin Laden.They use his rhetoric.They even use the brand name he created for his jihad.So there is now an al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb,there&#39;s an al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,there is an al Qaeda in Mesopotamia.There are other groups — in Nigeria, Boko Haram,in Somalia, al Shabaab — and they all pay homage to Osama bin Laden.But if you look closely,they&#39;re not fighting a global jihad.They&#39;re fighting battles over much narrower issues.Usually it has to do with ethnicity or race or sectarianism,or it&#39;s a power struggle.More often than not, it&#39;s a power strugglein one country, or even a small region within one country.Occasionally they will go across a border,from Iraq to Syria, from Mali to Algeria,from Somalia to Kenya, but they&#39;re not fightinga global jihad against some far enemy.
时间： 8:38
zh-cn:但是这并不意味着我们可以放松最近我在也门，在那里基地组织最后的分支仍然叫嚣着要袭击美国，袭击西方。他们是基地组织的残余。你们也许记得这些家伙。他们是那些试图在这里发动人体爆炸那些人，他们利用互联网试图在美国的穆斯林中煽动暴力。但是他们最近已经是散兵游勇。去年，他们控制了南也门的部分地区，并用塔利班的方式进行统治。也门军方采取行动，普通群众奋起反抗这些人并且把他们赶走，自此，他们他们大部分的活动，大部分的袭击都是针对也门人策划。
en:But that doesn&#39;t meanthat we can relax.I was in Yemen recently, where — it&#39;s the homeof the last al Qaeda franchisethat still aspires to attack America, attack the West.It&#39;s old school al Qaeda.You may remember these guys.They are the ones who tried to send the underwear bomber here,and they were using the Internet to try and instigateviolence among American Muslims.But they have been distracted recently.Last year, they took control over a portion of southern Yemen,and ran it, Taliban-style.And then the Yemeni military got its act together,and ordinary people rose up against these guysand drove them out, and since then, most of their activities,most of their attacks have been directed at Yemenis.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:我想我们现在可以得出一个结论就是，和所有的政治一样，圣战也是地区性的事情。但是，这仍然不能成为我们松一口气的原因，因为我们都看到了之前阿富汗的故事。当那些穆斯林圣战游击队击败苏联，我们松了一口气。但是我们庆祝的香槟还没开始起泡的时候，塔利班接管了喀布尔，我们说：“地区性的圣战，没我们什么事。”接着，塔利班将奥萨马本拉登迎进坎大哈。我们的麻烦就来了。地区性圣战，如果我们忽视的话，就会再次演变成全球性圣战。
en:So I think we&#39;ve come to a point now where we can saythat, just like all politics, all jihad is local.But that&#39;s still not reason for us to disengage,because we&#39;ve seen that movie before, in Afghanistan.When those Mujahideen defeated the Soviet Union,we disengaged.And even before the fizz had gone out of our celebratory champagne,the Taliban had taken over in Kabul,and we said, &quot;Local jihad, not our problem.&quot;And then the Taliban gave the keys of Kandaharto Osama bin Laden. He made it our problem.Local jihad, if you ignore it, becomes global jihad again.
时间：10:13
zh-cn:好在这个不会变成现实。因为我们现在知道如何应对。我们有手段，我们有秘籍，我们能从以往应对和战胜全球性圣战中学习到很多，并将之应用于地区性圣战。
en:The good news is that it doesn&#39;t have to be.We know how to fight it now.We have the tools. We have the knowhow,and we can take the lessons we&#39;ve learnedfrom the fight against global jihad, the victory against global jihad,and apply those to local jihad.
时间：10:30
zh-cn:我们的学到了什么？我们知道谁杀了本拉登：海报突击队第六小队。我们知道，或者了解是谁清除了拉登主义吗？谁终结了全球性的圣战？解决地区性圣战的方法就在这些答案中。
en:What are those lessons? We know who killed bin Laden:SEAL Team Six.Do we know, do we understand, who killed bin Ladenism?Who ended the global jihad?There lie the answers to the solution to local jihad.
时间：10:48
zh-cn:谁清除了拉登主义？我们从本拉登本人开始吧。他也许认为911是他最伟大的成就。实际上，这是他末日的开始。他剥夺了3000名无辜的生命，让穆斯林世界充满了恐怖和反感，这也就意味着他的圣战理念永远都不会成为主流。他承认自己是本族群的极端份子。911并没有使他更强大，而是宣判了他的死亡。
en:Who killed bin Ladenism? Let&#39;s start with bin Laden himself.He probably thought 9/11 was his greatest achievement.In reality, it was the beginning of the end for him.He killed 3,000 innocent people, and that filledthe Muslim world with horror and revulsion,and what that meant was that his idea of jihadcould never become mainstream.He condemned himself to operating on the lunatic fringesof his own community.9/11 didn&#39;t empower him; it doomed him.
时间：11:24
zh-cn:谁清除了拉登主义？是阿布.穆萨德.阿尔-扎卡维。他是伊拉克基地组织的狂人领袖，他在伊拉克制造了数以百计的自杀式爆炸伤害了伊拉克穆斯林，既有逊尼派也有什叶派，而不是美国人。任何声称基地组织是伊斯兰对抗西方十字军的保护者说法都是在牺牲伊拉克穆斯林的鲜血。
en:Who killed bin Ladenism? Abu Musab al-Zarqawi killed it.He was the especially sadistic head of al Qaeda in Iraqwho sent hundreds of suicide bombers to attacknot Americans but Iraqis. Muslims. Sunni as well as Shiites.Any claim that al Qaeda had to being protectors of Islamagainst the Western crusaderswas drowned in the blood of Iraqi Muslims.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:谁杀死了奥萨马本拉登？海豹突击队第六小队。谁清除了拉登主义？是半岛电视台，是半岛电视台和其他六家阿拉伯的卫星新闻台，因为他们完胜了许多这些国家中的国有电视台，这些国有电视台的目的就是为了对人民封锁消息。半岛电视台给他们带来信息，让他们看到以他们宗教的名义都说了些什么和做了些什么，揭露了本拉登和基地组织的伪善面目，并让他们，通过给他们足够信息，让他们能自己得出结论。
en:Who killed Osama bin Laden? The SEAL Team Six.Who killed bin Ladenism? Al Jazeera did,Al Jazeera and half a dozen other satellite news stations in Arabic,because they circumvented the old, state-ownedtelevision stations in a lot of these countrieswhich were designed to keep information from people.Al Jazeera brought information to them, showed themwhat was being said and done in the name of their religion,exposed the hypocrisy of Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda,and allowed them, gave them the informationthat allowed them to come to their own conclusions.
时间：12:33
zh-cn:谁清除了拉登主义？是阿拉伯之春，因为他们给年轻的穆斯林展现了一条带来改变的道路这是奥萨马本拉登，在他有限想象力中，无法设想出来的。
en:Who killed bin Ladenism? The Arab Spring did,because it showed a way for young Muslimsto bring about changein a manner that Osama bin Laden, with hislimited imagination, could never have conceived.
时间：12:49
zh-cn:谁战胜了全球性圣战？是美国的军队，美国的战士，和他们的盟友，他们在遥远的战场作战。也许，终有一天，他们会被歌颂。
en:Who defeated the global jihad? The American military did,the American soldiers did, with their allies,fighting in faraway battlefields.And perhaps, a time will come when they get the rightful credit for it.
时间：13:05
zh-cn:所有的这些以及其他的一些因素，我们甚至目前还不能完全了解其中的一些，加在一起战胜了拉登主义这样的巨型怪兽，对付全球性圣战，你就需要这样的团队合作。
en:So all these factors, and many more besides,we don&#39;t even fully understand some of them yet,these came togetherto defeat a monstrosity as big as bin Ladenism,the global jihad, you needed this group effort.
时间：13:22
zh-cn:现在，应对地区性圣战，并非所有这些还能起作用。美国没打算出兵尼日利亚来对抗博科圣地组织，看来也不会有海豹突击队第六小队破门而入力擒青年军的首领。
en:Now, not all of these things will work in local jihad.The American military is not going to march into Nigeriato take on Boko Haram,and it&#39;s unlikely that SEAL Team Six will rappelinto the homes of al Shabaab&#39;s leaders and take them out.
时间：13:36
zh-cn:但是某些其他因素却比以前更强大。很多工作已经完成过半。我们不需要另起炉灶。那种让更多穆斯林被杀的暴力圣战的理念不再被人相信。我们不需要回到起点。卫星电视和互联网让更多的年轻穆斯林通过崭新的途径获取信息，获得力量。阿拉伯之春之后诞生了许多政府，许多伊斯兰政府，他们知道，出于自我保护，他们要反对内部的极端分子。我们不必游说他们，但是我们需要帮助他们，因为他们没有足够的经验。
en:But many of these other factors that were in playare now even stronger than before. Half the work is already done.We don&#39;t have to reinvent the wheel.The notion of violent jihad in which more Muslims are killedthan any other kind of people is already thoroughly discredited.We don&#39;t have to go back to that.Satellite television and the Internet are informingand empowering young Muslims in exciting new ways.And the Arab Spring has produced governments,many of them Islamist governments,who know that, for their own self-preservation,they need to take on the extremists in their midsts.We don&#39;t need to persuade them, but we do need to help them,because they haven&#39;t really come to this place before.
时间：14:30
zh-cn:再说一遍，好消息是他们需要的许多东西已经有，我们乐意奉送：经济援助，不仅仅是钱，而且包括专业知识，技术，诀窍，私人投资，公平贸易，医药，教育，以及能让提高警察能力的训练方面的技术支持，使他们的反恐力量更加高效。我们有足够的这些东西。
en:The good news, again, is that a lot of the things they needwe already have, and we are very good at giving:economic assistance, not just money, but expertise,technology, knowhow,private investment, fair terms of trade,medicine, education, technical support for trainingfor their police forces to become more effective,for their anti-terror forces to become more efficient.We&#39;ve got plenty of these things.
时间：15:01
zh-cn:他们需要的其他东西我们无法给予。也许没人能给。时间，耐心，细致，理解，这些更难给予。我现在住在纽约。就在这周，纽约地铁站的海报刚贴出来，海报仍然把圣战描述为残忍的东西。
en:Some of the other things that they needwe&#39;re not very good at giving. Maybe nobody is.Time, patience, subtlety, understanding —these are harder to give.I live in New York now. Just this week,posters have gone up in subway stations in New Yorkthat describe jihad as savage.
时间：15:25
zh-cn:但是在中东往来这么多年，我从来没有如现在这般乐观，穆斯林和西方世界的鸿沟正在迅速缩小，我之所以这么乐观的原因之一就是我知道数以百万计的人，数以亿计的人，就像突尼斯那位阿訇老人这样的穆斯林，正在让这个词回归本源，回归美好的目标。本拉登死了，拉登主义被击败了。他对圣战的定义现在可以被抹去。对于这样的圣战，我们可以说：“再见了，谢天谢地！”对真正的圣战，我们可以说“欢迎回来，祝你好运！”谢谢。（鼓掌）
en:But in all the many years that I have covered the Middle East,I have never been as optimistic as I am todaythat the gap between the Muslim world and the Westis narrowing fast,and one of the many reasons for my optimismis that, because I know there are millions,hundreds of millions of people, Muslims like that old imamin Tunis, who are reclaiming this wordand restoring to its original, beautiful purpose.Bin Laden is dead. Bin Ladenism has been defeated.His definition of jihad can now be expunged.To that jihad we can say, &quot;Goodbye. Good riddance.&quot;To the real jihad we can say, &quot;Welcome back. Good luck.&quot;Thank you. (Applause)
