时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我想和大家分享关于我的病人赛琳的故事。
en:I&#39;d like to share with youthe story of one of my patients called Celine.
时间： 0:18
zh-cn:赛琳是一位家庭主妇生活在非洲中西部喀麦隆的乡下。六年前，她被诊断患有艾滋病她被招募参与了某个药品的临床实验实验刚好在赛琳的围生区进行一年多以前，我第一次见到赛琳她当时已经停止治疗超过18个月了完全停止使用抗逆转录病毒药物(是一类于治疗逆转录病毒，主要HIV感染的药物)她当时病的很重。她告诉我，自那临床实验结束后就再也没去那儿接受过治疗了因为她负担不起巴士车费身体也太虚弱 没法走35公里路去诊所在实验进行的时候她可以获得免费的抗逆转录病毒药物并可以报销交通费这些费用统统由实验研究承包。然而这一切都随着实验的结束而结束只留下当时走投无路的赛琳。她没法告诉我在实验中试过什么药甚至也不知道那是个什么实验。我没有再追问她实验的结果因为很明显她是一头雾水的。然而最令我想不通的是赛琳曾经签署过参与实验的同意书，然而她当时肯定不明白参与临床实验到底意味着什么实验结束后有会怎样。
en:Celine is a housewife and lives in a rural districtof Cameroon in west Central Africa.Six years ago, at the time of her HIV diagnosis,she was recruited to participate in the clinical trialwhich was running in her health district at the time.When I first met Celine, a little over a year ago,she had gone for 18 monthswithout any antiretroviral therapy,and she was very ill.She told me that she stopped coming to the clinicwhen the trial endedbecause she had no money for the bus fareand was too ill to walk the 35-kilometer distance.Now during the clinical trial,she&#39;d been given all her antiretroviral drugs free of charge,and her transportation costshad been covered by the research funds.All of these ended once the trial was completed,leaving Celine with no alternatives.She was unable to tell me the names of the drugsshe&#39;d received during the trial,or even what the trial had been about.I didn&#39;t bother to ask her what the results of the trial werebecause it seemed obvious to me that she would have no clue.Yet what puzzled me mostwas Celine had given her informed consentto be a part of this trial, yet she clearly did not understandthe implications of being a participantor what would happen to her once the trial had been completed.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:现在，我跟你们分享的这个故事，是一个真实的发生在参于实验的人身上的故事当实验不负责任的结束之后。也许这个实验会获得一些令人鼓舞的成果。也许结果会被发表在某个知名的科学期刊上。也许它能帮助一些临床医生们提升他们在艾滋病临床管理的经验。可是这些成果都要付如此浩大的代价！数百名和赛琳一样的病人随着实验的结束，他们失去了所有的帮助。
en:Now, I have shared this story with you as an exampleof what can happen to participants in the clinical trialwhen it is poorly conducted.Maybe this particular trial yielded exciting results.Maybe it even got published in a high-profile scientific journal.Maybe it would inform clinicians around the worldon how to improve on the clinical management of HIV patients.But it would have done so at a priceto hundreds of patients who, like Celine,were left to their own devicesonce the research had been completed.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:我今天站在这里并非要告诉大家在发展中国家做艾滋病临床研究是不对的。相反，要改善病人状况，它绝对是一种行之有效的方法而且那些发展中国家也非常需要临床实验来减轻他们的医疗负担。然而，我们都知道，一些存在于富国跟穷国之间的不公平情况，尤其是资金方面这让研究工作带来剥削的可能尤其是那些来自外界投资的临床研究。让人够难过的，现实告诉我们很多在发展中国家进行的研究永远也不会在发达国家得到授权并且得到投资。
en:I do not stand here today to suggest in any waythat conducting HIV clinical trialsin developing countries is bad.On the contrary, clinical trials are extremely useful tools,and are much needed to address the burdenof disease in developing countries.However, the inequalities that exist betweenricher countries and developing countries in terms of fundingpose a real risk for exploitation,especially in the context of externally-funded research.Sadly enough, the fact remains thata lot of the studies that are conducted in developing countriescould never be authorized in the richer countrieswhich fund the research.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:我肯定你一定会问什么驱使这些发展中国家特别是那些位于非洲撒哈拉沙漠的国家被吸引去参与这些艾滋病临床实验？为了让临床实验获得人数和复盖率过多而有令人信服的结果大量的病人会被招募参与实验这些病人都优先从艾滋病新感染率很高的地区找来的非洲撒哈拉地区最能符合以上的要求有2200万人生活在艾滋病的阴霾中据估算，全世界3000万艾滋病感染人数中，他们占70%并且，在那里开展研究还比较其他地区容易， 因为那里充斥着贫穷，疾病以及不完善的医疗保健体系因此，考虑到临床实验可能会给当地带来帮助所以研究很容易就会得到授权由于缺乏完善的医疗保健体系所以任何的医疗援助都很容易被接受因为总比什么都没有好而且还有一些有问题的理由，像负比较少的法律责任比较低的道德压力更有大量的病人愿意加入各种类似的研究这些临床实验都号称能治好他们。随着越来越多的艾滋病研究得到投资并且在发展中国家开展起来道德审查却在发达国家变得越来越严格这就是为什么这个话题变得这么的引人注目。
en:I&#39;m sure you must be asking yourselveswhat makes developing countries,especially those in sub-Saharan Africa,so attractive for these HIV clinical trials?Well, in order for a clinical trial to generatevalid and widely applicable results,they need to be conducted with large numbers of study participantsand preferably on a populationwith a high incidence of new HIV infections.Sub-Saharan Africa largely fits this description,with 22 million people living with HIV,an estimated 70 percent of the 30 million peoplewho are infected worldwide.Also, research within the continentis a lot easier to conduct due to widespread poverty,endemic diseases and inadequate health care systems.A clinical trial that is considered to bepotentially beneficial to the populationis more likely to be authorized,and in the absence of good health care systems,almost any offer of medical assistanceis accepted as better than nothing.Even more problematic reasons includelower risk of litigation,less rigorous ethical reviews,and populations that are willing to participatein almost any study that hints at a cure.As funding for HIV researchincreases in developing countriesand ethical review in richer countries become more strict,you can see why this context becomesvery, very attractive.
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:艾滋病的高发病率促使研究员们作这方面的研究，这在科学研究上是可以接受的但在很多道德伦理方面就出现疑问我们怎么才能保证，在研究治疗的过程中不会损害那些参与实验而又在与疾病抗争的病人们的利益？我恳请大家考虑下以下这四个方面为了改善这个现状。
en:The high prevalence of HIV drives researchersto conduct research that is sometimes scientifically acceptablebut on many levels ethically questionable.How then can we ensure that, in our search for the cure,we do not take an unfair advantageof those who are already most affected by the pandemic?I invite you to consider four areas I think we can focus onin order to improve the way in which things are done.
时间： 5:05
zh-cn:首先是要提倡参加者的知情权。时至今日，为了让临床实验在道德上容易被接受参与者必须有权获得相关的资料而且是他们可以理解的必须专重参加者的参与自由。这在发展中国家尤其重要因为大量的参与者同意参加研究他们相信这是他们唯一的机会得到治疗或者其他方面的帮助。然而发达国家那套用来保障知情权的方法在很多发展中国家基本上是形同虚设。就拿赛琳来说吧，那简直是荒谬的让一个没受过教育的参加者去签一份又长又看不懂的同意书。我们需要更多本地政府的参与建立一套合理的参与者招募准则须要提到临床实验，而不仅仅是吸引参与者。所有跟实验相关的信息应该要用参加者的语言和方式让他们理解。
en:The first of these is informed consent.Now, in order for a clinical trial to beconsidered ethically acceptable,participants must be given the relevant informationin a way in which they can understand,and must freely consent to participate in the trial.This is especially important in developing countries,where a lot of participants consent to researchbecause they believe it is the only way in whichthey can receive medical care or other benefits.Consent procedures that are used in richer countriesare often inappropriate or ineffectivein a lot of developing countries.For example, it is counterintuitive to havean illiterate study participant, like Celine,sign a lengthy consent form that they are unable to read,let alone understand.Local communities need to be more involvedin establishing the criteria for recruiting participantsin clinical trials, as well as the incentives for participation.The information in these trialsneeds to be given to the potential participantsin linguistically and culturally acceptable formats.
时间： 6:15
zh-cn:我要提出的第二点是我们应该提供治疗的标准给这些参与临床实验的人。现在，这个话题带有争议性。参与实验的对照组病人是否也应该得到顶级的治疗就像发达国家的病人一样？或者他们应该被区别对待只能得到进行实验的国家的那些所谓的顶级的治疗待遇呢？我们是否能公正的评价一种让参与研究的病人们感觉遥不可及的疗法当这些疗法问世的时候？此时此刻，我们身处一个顶级医疗触手可及的国度答案是明显的。然而，这些这些在发达国家触手可及的事情在发展中国家却是难如登天。我认为在临床实验中对即将提供给临床病人们的医疗品质是非常有必要进行风险评估的这能帮助我们建立一种既不影响实验又能给予参与实验的病人们最大利益的准则。
en:The second point I would like for you to consideris the standard of care that is providedto participants within any clinical trial.Now, this is subject to a lot of debate and controversy.Should the control group in the clinical trialbe given the best current treatment which is availableanywhere in the world?Or should they be given an alternative standard of care,such as the best current treatment availablein the country in which the research is being conducted?Is it fair to evaluate a treatment regimenwhich may not be affordable or accessibleto the study participants once the research has been completed?Now, in a situation where the best current treatmentis inexpensive and simple to deliver,the answer is straightforward.However, the best current treatment availableanywhere in the world is often very difficultto provide in developing countries.It is important to assess the potential risks and benefitsof the standard of care which is to be providedto participants in any clinical trial,and establish one which is relevant for the context of the studyand most beneficial for the participants within the study.
时间： 7:29
zh-cn:说到准则，正好谈一下我第三个观点希望大思考一下临床研究的伦理审查。一个有效的伦理审查体系一定是以保护参与者的生命安全为出发点在临床实验中。不幸的是，这在很多发展中国家伦理审查根本就是闻所未闻的事情。本地政府需要建立有效的临床实验伦理审查体系针对那些在发展中国家得到授权的实验并且建立起一个独立的伦理审查委员会不受政府和研究赞助人的干扰。应该提倡向公众问责的体系通过非政府组织或国际机构的公开透明且独立的伦理审查。
en:That brings us to the third point I want you think about:the ethical review of research.An effective system for reviewing the ethical suitabilityof clinical trials is primordial to safeguard participantswithin any clinical trial.Unfortunately, this is often lackingor inefficient in a lot of developing countries.Local governments need to set up effective systemsfor reviewing the ethical issues around the clinical trialswhich are authorized in different developing countries,and they need to do this by setting upethical review committees that are independentof the government and research sponsors.Public accountability needs to be promotedthrough transparency and independent reviewby nongovernmental and international organizationsas appropriate.
时间： 8:22
zh-cn:最后我希望大家想一想那些临床实验的病人随着实验的结束会面对怎样的情况。我认为这种一旦结束就过河拆桥的医学研究根本不应该开展。现在，研究者们应该努力确保让那些参与实验参的人能够得到妥善的安排就像他们在参与实验时那样即使在实验完成后。不仅如此，研究完成后，研究者们应该尽力提供一些可行的疗法来回馈更多的病人不仅仅是曾经参与的人。如果，无论什么原因，他们做不到的话我认为他们应该从伦理上向社会交代自己的实验当初可以开展的理由。
en:The final point I would like for you to consider tonightis what happens to participants in the clinical trialonce the research has been completed.I think it is absolutely wrong for research to beginin the first place without a clear planfor what would happen to the participantsonce the trial has ended.Now, researchers need to make every effort to ensure thatan intervention that has been shown to be beneficialduring a clinical trialis accessible to the participants of the trialonce the trial has been completed.In addition, they should be able to consider the possibilityof introducing and maintaining effective treatmentsin the wider community once the trial ends.If, for any reason, they feel that this might not be possible,then I think they should have to ethically justifywhy the clinical trial should be conducted in the first place.
时间： 9:19
zh-cn:赛琳是幸运的我们的会面没有在办公室里结束。我帮她加入了一个离家很近而是免费的艾滋病治疗计划还有一个支持团体在帮助她对抗病魔。赛琳的故事总算有一个正面的结果但还有成千上万像她的病人就没这么幸运了。
en:Now, fortunately for Celine,our meeting did not end in my office.I was able to get her enrolled into a free HIV treatment programcloser to her home,and with a support group to help her cope.Her story has a positive ending,but there are thousands of others in similar situationswho are much less fortunate.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:赛琳肯定没想到我们的相遇完全的改变了我对在发展中国家进行临床实验的看法并且让我下定决心，成为了改变运动的一部份希望可以改变这些不公义的状况。
en:Although she may not know this,my encounter with Celine has completely changed the wayin which I view HIV clinical trials in developing countries,and made me even more determined to be part of the movementto change the way in which things are done.
时间： 9:59
zh-cn:我坚信今天晚上在座的各位也会愿义加入成为我们的一部分。如果你是研究员，我请你坚持用更高的道德标准来要求自己摸着你的良心做研究不要为了研究成果而牺牲他人的生命。如果你在资助机构或药品公司工作的话我希望你建议你的老板投资那些讲良心的研究。如果你像我一样来自一个发展中国家我渴望你能敦促你的政府更加严谨的审查那些在你的国家得到授权的临床实验。的确，我们需要可以治愈艾滋病的药物需要更有效的疟疾疫苗需要能检测结核病菌的机器但是我认为我们应该更人道的对待那些无私、自愿参与临床试验的参加者。
en:I believe that every single personlistening to me tonight can be part of that change.If you are a researcher, I hold youto a higher standard of moral conscience,to remain ethical in your research,and not compromise human welfare in your search for answers.If you work for a funding agency or pharmaceutical company,I challenge you to hold your employersto fund research that is ethically sound.If you come from a developing country like myself,I urge you to hold your governmentto a more thorough review of the clinical trialswhich are authorized in your country.Yes, there is a need for us to find a cure for HIV,to find an effective vaccine for malaria,to find a diagnostic tool that works for T.B.,but I believe that we owe it to those who willinglyand selflessly consent to participate in these clinical trialsto do this in a humane way.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
