时间： 0:11
zh-cn:细菌是地球上最古老的生物.它们已经存在数十亿年了它们是单细胞微生物它们特征是只有一个细胞还有就是它们只有一份DNA它们只有少量基因,和遗传信息来编码它们表达的特性。细菌生存的方法是不断从环境中吸取养分©在成长到两倍的体积后，它们从中一分为二分裂为两个细胞，如此循环它们不停得生长、分裂，然后再生长、再分裂—过着有点乏味的生活。但是，今天我想告诉你你与这些细菌有着惊人的互动关系
en:Bacteria are the oldest living organisms on the earth.They&#39;ve been here for billions of years,and what they are are single-celled microscopic organisms.So they are one cell and they have this special propertythat they only have one piece of DNA.They have very few genes,and genetic information to encode all of the traits that they carry out.And the way bacteria make a livingis that they consume nutrients from the environment,they grow to twice their size, they cut themselves down in the middle,and one cell becomes two, and so on and so on.They just grow and divide, and grow and divide — so a kind of boring life,except that what I would argue is that you havean amazing interaction with these critters.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:我知道你认为你自己是人类，而这可能也是我如何看你们的在这里的是一个一般人类的代表在他身上所有的圆圈代表着各个组成人体的细胞每个人体大约是由一兆个人体细胞所组成它们让我们能完成各种各样我们想做的事情但是，你一生中的每时每刻，有大约十兆个细菌细胞生活在你的体内体表。所以，有十倍于人体细胞的细菌细胞生活在一个人身上同理, 我们要算一下DNA这是所有的 A, T, G 和 C (腺嘌呤, 胸腺嘧啶, 鸟嘌呤, 胞嘧啶)组成你的基因密码, 赋予你所有的魅力特征.你有3万左右的遗传基因,而围绕你的细菌的遗传基因数量是你自己的100倍它们在你的身体内部和表面上中始终扮演着重要的角色。最乐观的看法是: 你只是&quot;10分之1人&quot;,事实上&quot;100分之一人&quot;更准确，取决于你更喜欢用哪个尺度来衡量.我知道你自认为是一个&quot;人类&quot;,但在我眼里你是90%~99%的细菌.
en:I know you guys think of yourself as humans, and this is sort of how I think of you.This man is supposed to representa generic human being,and all of the circles in that man are all of the cells that make up your body.There is about a trillion human cells that make each one of uswho we are and able to do all the things that we do,but you have 10 trillion bacterial cellsin you or on you at any moment in your life.So, 10 times more bacterial cellsthan human cells on a human being.And of course it&#39;s the DNA that counts,so here&#39;s all the A, T, Gs and Csthat make up your genetic code, and give you all your charming characteristics.You have about 30,000 genes.Well it turns out you have 100 times more bacterial genesplaying a role in you or on you all of your life.At the best, you&#39;re 10 percent human,but more likely about one percent human,depending on which of these metrics you like.I know you think of yourself as human beings,but I think of you as 90 or 99 percent bacterial.
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:(笑)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:这些细菌不是顺从的乘客,他们难以置信得重要, 他们让我们活着.它们是我们身上的无形盔甲阻断来之环境的伤害保持我们的健康.它们消化食物, 制造维他命,它们还指导你的免疫系统将有害微生物阻挡在体外。它们尽心尽职干活帮助我们，维护我们的生命。却从没有因此得到过报道.反而却因为它们同时做的许多坏事而时常见报。地球上有无数种细菌它们有些在任何时候都绝对不应该出现在你的体内体表，然而假如你不幸遇到了, 那你一定会病得很厉害。
en:These bacteria are not passive riders,these are incredibly important, they keep us alive.They cover us in an invisible body armorthat keeps environmental insults outso that we stay healthy.They digest our food, they make our vitamins,they actually educate your immune systemto keep bad microbes out.So they do all these amazing thingsthat help us and are vital for keeping us alive,and they never get any press for that.But they get a lot of press because they do a lot ofterrible things as well.So, there&#39;s all kinds of bacteria on the Earththat have no business being in you or on you at any time,and if they are, they make you incredibly sick.
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:所以, 我们实验室研究的问题是, 正是你想知道的细菌做的所有好事或者细菌做的所有坏事。我们曾经提出一个疑问: 它们究竟是怎么做到的?我指的是, 它们是那么细微,用显微镜才能看到一个。它们的生活好像只是单调乏味的成长与分裂，而且长久以来被认为是不善社交的隐居生命体。所以在我们看来, 它们实在是太渺小，如果单枪匹马根本到无法对环境产生任何影响。所以我们正在探讨细菌是不是有着特殊的生存方式。
en:And so, the question for my lab is whether you want to think about all thegood things that bacteria do, or all the bad things that bacteria do.The question we had is how could they do anything at all?I mean they&#39;re incredibly small,you have to have a microscope to see one.They live this sort of boring life where they grow and divide,and they&#39;ve always been considered to be these asocial reclusive organisms.And so it seemed to us that they are just too small to have an impacton the environmentif they simply act as individuals.And so we wanted to think if there couldn&#39;t be a differentway that bacteria live.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:解答这个问题的线索来自一种叫做费氏弧菌的海洋细菌。你们在这张幻灯看到的，是我实验室的一个工作人员握着一瓶装满这种细菌的培养液，这是一种来自海洋的，美丽而且无害的细菌：&quot;费氏弧菌&quot;.这种细菌的特性是会发光，产生生物荧光,像萤火虫一样。我们没有对这些细胞做任何处理。我们只是把房间灯关了，然后照了这张照片，这是我们所见到的情形。
en:The clue to this came from another marine bacterium,and it&#39;s a bacterium called Vibrio fischeri.What you&#39;re looking at on this slide is just a person from my labholding a flask of a liquid culture of a bacterium,a harmless beautiful bacterium that comes from the ocean,named Vibrio fischeri.This bacterium has the special property that it makes light,so it makes bioluminescence,like fireflies make light.We&#39;re not doing anything to the cells here.We just took the picture by turning the lights off in the room,and this is what we see.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:事实上, 我们感兴趣的部分并不是细菌会不会发光，而是细菌何时发光。我们发现, 当细菌独立存在,经稀释后进行悬浮培养时, 它们不发光。但一旦它们增长到一个特定数量之后所有的细菌同时发光。于是我们想, 这些原始生物,到底如何得知自己是处于孤立的状态,还是处在一个群体里，并且同时一起做同一件事情。然后我们发现了这是因为细菌能够彼此交谈，它们用的是化学语言。
en:What was actually interesting to uswas not that the bacteria made light,but when the bacteria made light.What we noticed is when the bacteria were alone,so when they were in dilute suspension, they made no light.But when they grew to a certain cell numberall the bacteria turned on light simultaneously.The question that we had is how can bacteria, these primitive organisms,tell the difference from times when they&#39;re alone,and times when they&#39;re in a community,and then all do something together.What we&#39;ve figured out is that the way that they do that is that they talk to each other,and they talk with a chemical language.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:假设这是我的细菌。当它独处时, 丝毫不会发光。但是它们会制造分泌小化学分子你可以把他想象成荷尔蒙,这里的红色三角形代表这些小分子, 当细菌独处时，分泌的小分子游离开来,所以不发光。随着这些细菌成倍增长,且全部一起制造这些分子,这些细胞外分子的含量随着细胞数量的增加而增加，当这些个分子累积到一定的量之后，它们会告诉了细菌，它们周围有多少邻居，细菌接受到这些信息后，所有的细菌，同时开始发光。生物光就是这样运作的 —它们籍由上述的化学语言交流。
en:This is now supposed to be my bacterial cell.When it&#39;s alone it doesn&#39;t make any light.But what it does do is to make and secrete small moleculesthat you can think of like hormones,and these are the red triangles, and when the bacteria is alonethe molecules just float away and so no light.But when the bacteria grow and doubleand they&#39;re all participating in making these molecules,the molecule — the extracellular amount of that moleculeincreases in proportion to cell number.And when the molecule hits a certain amountthat tells the bacteria how many neighbors there are,they recognize that moleculeand all of the bacteria turn on light in synchrony.That&#39;s how bioluminescence works —they&#39;re talking with these chemical words.
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:费氏弧菌的发光现象来自生物学上的原因。接下来,我们再来看一个海洋生物：费式弧菌寄生在这种乌贼的体内。你们现在看到的是夏威夷截尾乌贼,这是它的腹侧,我希望你们看得到，那两个发着光的叶状突起，这里是费式弧菌的寄生之处，他们居住在这里面。他们分泌的小分子也在这里面,所以它们能够发光。这种乌贼之所以愿意接受它们在里面胡作非为是因为它需要这些亮光。这种共存行为的建立基础是因为这种小乌贼生活在夏威夷的海岸，大概只有膝盖一般深的水里。这种乌贼是夜行性的，因此在白天它们藏在沙子里睡觉，但是到了晚上，它们必须出来猎食。在有着许多星光与月光的明亮夜晚，这些光线可以照透乌贼所生活的地方因为这里的海水只有数尺深而已这种乌贼演化出了一种活叶瓣，可以打开或关闭细菌所寄生的发光器官。这种乌贼背上有一些感光装置，可以测量有多少月光或星光照在它背上，然后调节它的活叶瓣。使从它腹部所放出的光细菌产生的光完全符合照射在乌贼背上的光强度因此这乌贼就不会产生任何影子。它们使用来自细菌的光，不断调节光线，就像穿上隐身衣，使猎食者无法看见它的阴影，计算它的动向，然后吃了它。就像是大海中的隐形轰炸机一般。
en:The reason that Vibrio fischeri is doing that comes from the biology.Again, another plug for the animals in the ocean,Vibrio fischeri lives in this squid.What you are looking at is the Hawaiian Bobtail Squid,and it&#39;s been turned on its back,and what I hope you can see are these two glowing lobesand these house the Vibrio fischeri cells,they live in there, at high cell numberthat molecule is there, and they&#39;re making light.The reason the squid is willing to put up with these shenanigansis because it wants that light.The way that this symbiosis worksis that this little squid lives just off the coast of Hawaii,just in sort of shallow knee-deep water.The squid is nocturnal, so during the dayit buries itself in the sand and sleeps,but then at night it has to come out to hunt.On bright nights when there is lots of starlight or moonlightthat light can penetrate the depth of the waterthe squid lives in, since it&#39;s just in those couple feet of water.What the squid has developed is a shutterthat can open and close over this specialized light organ housing the bacteria.Then it has detectors on its backso it can sense how much starlight or moonlight is hitting its back.And it opens and closes the shutterso the amount of light coming out of the bottom —which is made by the bacterium —exactly matches how much light hits the squid&#39;s back,so the squid doesn&#39;t make a shadow.It actually uses the light from the bacteriato counter-illuminate itself in an anti-predation deviceso predators can&#39;t see its shadow,calculate its trajectory, and eat it.This is like the stealth bomber of the ocean.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:21
zh-cn:但是如果你再深入地想一下，这乌贼会有一个可怕的问题因为在它的体内，这些黏稠的细菌会不断的增长，死亡，乌贼无法无限地维持这种状态。因此每天早上太阳升起后，它将自己埋藏在沙子里睡觉，它有一个与日夜周期同步的活泵当太阳升起时，它将大约95%的细菌排出体外。当细菌被稀释了，这些小荷尔蒙分子也随之消失，因此它们就不发光了，但这时乌贼完全不在乎，因为它正在沙子里睡觉呢。当白天过去，这些细菌持续分裂增长，它们释放出足够的这些小分子，然后又开始在晚上发光，这时正好又是乌贼需要光线的时候。
en:But then if you think about it, the squid has this terrible problembecause it&#39;s got this dying, thick culture of bacteriaand it can&#39;t sustain that.And so what happens is every morning when the sun comes upthe squid goes back to sleep, it buries itself in the sand,and it&#39;s got a pump that&#39;s attached to its circadian rhythm,and when the sun comes up it pumps out like 95 percent of the bacteria.Now the bacteria are dilute, that little hormone molecule is gone,so they&#39;re not making light —but of course the squid doesn&#39;t care. It&#39;s asleep in the sand.And as the day goes by the bacteria double,they release the molecule, and then light comes onat night, exactly when the squid wants it.
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:我们首先了解了这些细菌为什么会有这种现象，然后我们使用分子生物学的方法来研究这种现象的真正的机理。我们发现了：比如这是我的费氏弧菌它有一种蛋白质－就是这个红色的方块—它是一种催化剂，是它制造的这种小荷尔蒙分子，就是这红色三角形。当细胞生长时，他们全都释放这个种分子到环境中，因此周围环境中有大量的这种分子。这些细菌的细胞表面，存在一种受体，它与小分子的构造就如同锁与钥匙一般的吻合。它们就如同你我身体细胞表面上的受体一般。当这些分子增加到一定的量时—这也意味着这些细胞的数量增加到一定的量荷尔蒙小分子与受器相结合，讯息开始向细胞内部传递，这个讯息会告诉这些细胞开始集体发光的行为。
en:First we figured out how this bacterium does this,but then we brought the tools of molecular biology to thisto figure out really what&#39;s the mechanism.And what we found — so this is now supposed to be, again, my bacterial cell —is that Vibrio fischeri has a protein —that&#39;s the red box — it&#39;s an enzyme that makesthat little hormone molecule, the red triangle.And then as the cells grow, they&#39;re all releasing that moleculeinto the environment, so there&#39;s lots of molecule there.And the bacteria also have a receptor on their cell surfacethat fits like a lock and key with that molecule.These are just like the receptors on the surfaces of your cells.When the molecule increases to a certain amount —which says something about the number of cells —it locks down into that receptorand information comes into the cellsthat tells the cells to turn onthis collective behavior of making light.
时间： 7:46
zh-cn:这个发现之所以有趣，是因为在过去十年间我们发现这种现象，不只局限在这种住在大海中，古怪的、会在黑暗中发光的细菌，而是所有的细菌都有类似的系统。由此，我们发现所有细菌都是可以彼此交谈的。它们制造化学文字，同时也能够辨认这些文字，然后表现只有当所有细胞齐心协力才能成功的集体行为。我们为这种行为取了一个新潮的名字，称作：聚量感应。就象用化学物质投票，再对票量加以统计，然后 所有细胞都要服从最后的投票结果。
en:Why this is interesting is because in the past decadewe have found that this is not just some anomalyof this ridiculous, glow-in-the-dark bacterium that lives in the ocean —all bacteria have systems like this.So now what we understand is that all bacteria can talk to each other.They make chemical words, they recognize those words,and they turn on group behaviorsthat are only successful when all of the cells participate in unison.We have a fancy name for this: we call it quorum sensing.They vote with these chemical votes,the vote gets counted, and then everybody responds to the vote.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:今天演讲最重要的一点是，我们已经知道细菌有数百种以上的这种集体行为。其中对大家来说，最关心的应该还是细菌的致病性。并不是说少量细菌进入你体内后就马上开始分泌毒素。相对它们来说，你是个庞然大物，少量细菌对你不会有任何的影响。我们发现，它们是先进入你的体内，然后等待，开始不断复制增长，它们由统计小分子的数目来估计自身的实力，当确定有足够的细胞数后，所有细菌一起发动致病攻击，这样它们就能成功攻陷巨大的宿主。细菌总是以「聚量感应」来控制其致病性这就是它们运作的原理。
en:What&#39;s important for today&#39;s talkis that we know that there are hundreds of behaviorsthat bacteria carry out in these collective fashions.But the one that&#39;s probably the most important to you is virulence.It&#39;s not like a couple bacteria get in youand they start secreting some toxins —you&#39;re enormous, that would have no effect on you. You&#39;re huge.What they do, we now understand,is they get in you, they wait, they start growing,they count themselves with these little molecules,and they recognize when they have the right cell numberthat if all of the bacteria launch their virulence attack together,they are going to be successful at overcoming an enormous host.Bacteria always control pathogenicity with quorum sensing.That&#39;s how it works.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:我们同时也研究了这些小分子，这些就是我刚才幻灯上的小红三角形。这个是费氏弧菌的小分子。也就是它们用以交谈的文字。我们开始研究其他细菌，这些是部份我们已发现小分子我希望你们看得出来这些分子之间是有关联性的。每种细菌，它们的小分子的左半部都是完全相同的。只是在右半部则因菌种的不同而有少许的不同。这个发现证实细菌的语言有高度的专一性。每一种分子只能与其相对受器结合，非常专一。所以这些交谈是私下的、秘密的。这种交流是只限于同种族内部的沟通。每一种细菌使用其特殊分子代表它的语言，让它能够计算同类的数量。
en:We also then went to look at what are these molecules —these were the red triangles on my slides before.This is the Vibrio fischeri molecule.This is the word that it talks with.So then we started to look at other bacteria,and these are just a smattering of the molecules that we&#39;ve discovered.What I hope you can seeis that the molecules are related.The left-hand part of the molecule is identicalin every single species of bacteria.But the right-hand part of the molecule is a little bit different in every single species.What that does is to conferexquisite species specificities to these languages.Each molecule fits into its partner receptor and no other.So these are private, secret conversations.These conversations are for intraspecies communication.Each bacteria uses a particular molecule that&#39;s its languagethat allows it to count its own siblings.
时间： 9:54
zh-cn:一旦我们了解这些，我们也开始了解细菌有所谓的社交行为。但我们真正思考的问题是，在多数情况下，细菌并不是单独生活的，它们居住的地方是鱼龙混杂的，它们跟其它成百上千种的细菌同居一处。这张幻灯可以说明这个情形：这是你的皮肤。这是一张照片，是你皮肤的显微照片。在你身体的任何地方，看上去都会和这差不多。我希望你能看出，这里有各种不同的细菌。因此我们开始思考，如果这真的是细菌间的交流计算与之相邻的同种细菌的数量，只跟同种细菌沟通是不够的，它们一定有某种跟周围其他种细菌和平共处的方法。
en:Once we got that far we thoughtwe were starting to understand that bacteria have these social behaviors.But what we were really thinking about is that most of the timebacteria don&#39;t live by themselves, they live in incredible mixtures,with hundreds or thousands of other species of bacteria.And that&#39;s depicted on this slide. This is your skin.So this is just a picture — a micrograph of your skin.Anywhere on your body, it looks pretty much like this,and what I hope you can see is that there&#39;s all kinds of bacteria there.And so we started to think if this really is about communication in bacteria,and it&#39;s about counting your neighbors,it&#39;s not enough to be able to only talk within your species.There has to be a way to take a censusof the rest of the bacteria in the population.
时间：10:35
zh-cn:所以我们回到分子生物学的方法，开始研究不同的细菌。我们现在已经发现，事实上，细菌可以讲多国种语言。它们都有一个菌种特别识别系统，用特别分子来辨别同类。但是，我们发现，它们同时还有另一种系统，那是一个通用的系统。因此，它们有另一种催化剂，能产生第二种信号，这种信号也有自己的受体，这种分子是细菌们的公共语言。它被所有不同的细菌所公共使用，是一种菌种间沟通的语言。细菌能够计算并区分自己周围同种与异种细菌的数量。它们传递这些讯息到细胞内，然后决定该怎么做，它们的行动取决于在整个群体中谁占多数，谁占少数。
en:So we went back to molecular biologyand started studying different bacteria,and what we&#39;ve found now is thatin fact, bacteria are multilingual.They all have a species-specific system —they have a molecule that says &quot;me.&quot;But then, running in parallel to that is a second systemthat we&#39;ve discovered, that&#39;s generic.So, they have a second enzyme that makes a second signaland it has its own receptor,and this molecule is the trade language of bacteria.It&#39;s used by all different bacteriaand it&#39;s the language of interspecies communication.What happens is that bacteria are able to counthow many of me and how many of you.They take that information inside,and they decide what tasks to carry outdepending on who&#39;s in the minority and who&#39;s in the majorityof any given population.
时间：11:23
zh-cn:我们又使用化学方法搞清了这个通用分子的构造－通用分子就是我上一张幻灯的粉红色椭圆形。它是一个非常小的五碳分子。重要的是，我们发现每种细菌都有完全一样的催化剂，可以制造一模一样的分子。它们都使用这个分子作为菌种间交流的语言。这是细菌的世界语。
en:Then again we turn to chemistry,and we figured out what this generic molecule is —that was the pink ovals on my last slide, this is it.It&#39;s a very small, five-carbon molecule.What the important thing is that we learnedis that every bacterium has exactly the same enzymeand makes exactly the same molecule.So they&#39;re all using this moleculefor interspecies communication.This is the bacterial Esperanto.
时间：11:48
zh-cn:笑声
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:49
zh-cn:一旦我们了解这个后，我们知道细菌可以用这个分子来相互交流。但是我们又开始思考，也许我们可以使用这个发现来做一些实质上的应用。我已经告诉过你们，细菌间是有社交行为的，它们是使用这些分子进行交流的。当然，我也告诉过你，其中一件主要的事情就是它们使用聚量感应来启动致病性。我们不禁想，我们是不是可以让这些细菌哑了或聋了？这岂不是可以成为一种新的抗生素？
en:Once we got that far, we started to learnthat bacteria can talk to each other with this chemical language.But what we started to think is that maybe there is somethingpractical that we can do here as well.I&#39;ve told you that bacteria do have all these social behaviors,they communicate with these molecules.Of course, I&#39;ve also told you that one of the important things they dois to initiate pathogenicity using quorum sensing.We thought, what if we made these bacteriaso they can&#39;t talk or they can&#39;t hear?Couldn&#39;t these be new kinds of antibiotics?
时间：12:18
zh-cn:当然，你一定听说过，而且你早就知道了我们快要没有有效的抗生素了。现在的细菌都拥有，不可思议的多重耐药性而这都是因为，这些抗生素的工作原理都是杀死细菌。它们要么是使细菌的细胞膜破裂，就是不让细菌复制自己的DNA。当我们用传统抗生素来杀菌时，会同时培养筛选出有耐药性的突变菌株。所以，我们有了全球性的感染病问题。我们想，如果我们可以稍微更改这些细菌的行为，只是让这些细菌无法交谈，无法计数，它们就不知何时发起毒性攻击。
en:Of course, you&#39;ve just heard and you already knowthat we&#39;re running out of antibiotics.Bacteria are incredibly multi-drug-resistant right now,and that&#39;s because all of the antibiotics that we use kill bacteria.They either pop the bacterial membrane,they make the bacterium so it can&#39;t replicate its DNA.We kill bacteria with traditional antibioticsand that selects for resistant mutants.And so now of course we have this global problemin infectious diseases.We thought, well what if we could sort of do behavior modifications,just make these bacteria so they can&#39;t talk, they can&#39;t count,and they don&#39;t know to launch virulence.
时间：12:53
zh-cn:这就是我们已经完成的实验，我们使用了两种不同策略：第一个，我们锁定菌种内通讯系统。我们制造了一些看起来跟真的分子很像的分子，你们可以看到，它们间只有一点点的不同。因此，它们会锁住这些受体，并且干扰受体辨识真正的分子。既然锁定红色的系统，我们就可以制造针对菌种，或是针对疾病的「反聚量感应」分子。我们也对粉红色系统做了同样的事情。我们使用那种通用分子，将之做了一些更改我们做了一些拮抗剂，它们都是针对菌种间的通讯系统。我们希望这些分子可以用来作广谱抗生素，对所有细菌都有效。
en:And so that&#39;s exactly what we&#39;ve done, and we&#39;ve sort of taken two strategies.The first one is we&#39;ve targetedthe intraspecies communication system.So we made molecules that look kind of like the real molecules —which you saw — but they&#39;re a little bit different.And so they lock into those receptors,and they jam recognition of the real thing.By targeting the red system,what we are able to do is to makespecies-specific, or disease-specific, anti-quorum sensing molecules.We&#39;ve also done the same thing with the pink system.We&#39;ve taken that universal molecule and turned it around a little bitso that we&#39;ve made antagonistsof the interspecies communication system.The hope is that these will be used as broad-spectrum antibioticsthat work against all bacteria.
时间：13:37
zh-cn:最后，我只跟你们说一下战略。在这个里，我们只是使用跨菌种分子，但是思维逻辑是一模一样的。你们都知道，当细菌进入动物体内，以此为例，对这只老鼠，它并不会马上启动致病机制。它进入，开始增殖，开始分泌它的聚量感应分子。当累积到足够数量时，细菌能识别，并开始发起攻击，然后老鼠就死了。我们所做的是在致病感染的同时，加入我们的「反聚量感应分子」，也就是看起来很像真的「聚量感应分子」的物质，但是，正如同我在幻灯上指出的，它们之间有一点点不同。我们现在发现，如果让实验动物感染一种具有多重耐药性的致病细菌，但是同时， 我们施予「反聚量感应分子」治疗，动物就能够存活。
en:To finish I&#39;ll just show you the strategy.In this one I&#39;m just using the interspecies molecule,but the logic is exactly the same.What you know is that when that bacterium gets into the animal,in this case, a mouse,it doesn&#39;t initiate virulence right away.It gets in, it starts growing, it starts secretingits quorum sensing molecules.It recognizes when it has enough bacteriathat now they&#39;re going to launch their attack,and the animal dies.What we&#39;ve been able to do is to give these virulent infections,but we give them in conjunction with our anti-quorum sensing molecules —so these are molecules that look kind of like the real thing,but they&#39;re a little bit different which I&#39;ve depicted on this slide.What we now know is that if we treat the animalwith a pathogenic bacterium — a multi-drug-resistant pathogenic bacterium —in the same time we give our anti-quorum sensing molecule,in fact, the animal lives.
时间：14:27
zh-cn:我们认为这应该是下一代的抗生素，它将能够让我们，至少在开始阶段，解决耐药性细菌的问题。我希望你们也能认为，细菌可以彼此交谈，它们使用化学物质当作语言，它们拥有极端复杂的化学语汇，我们现在才刚刚要开始学习这些语汇。当然，也因为这些语汇使细菌得以变得像多细胞生物。所以，就像TED的精神一样，它们彼此合作，因为这样才能有一番作为。细菌因为有这些集体行为，所以可以执行一些如果是单枪匹马是永远无法完成的任务。
en:We think that this is the next generation of antibioticsand it&#39;s going to get us around, at least initially,this big problem of resistance.What I hope you think, is that bacteria can talk to each other,they use chemicals as their words,they have an incredibly complicated chemical lexiconthat we&#39;re just now starting to learn about.Of course what that allows bacteria to dois to be multicellular.So in the spirit of TED they&#39;re doing things togetherbecause it makes a difference.What happens is that bacteria have these collective behaviors,and they can carry out tasksthat they could never accomplishif they simply acted as individuals.
时间：15:06
zh-cn:我希望能进一步地说服你们的是这就是多细胞生物的起源。细菌已经生存在地球上数十亿年了。人类只有数十万年而已。我们认为细菌制定了多细胞的组织运作规则。我们认为，由研究细菌，我们将能够对，人体内的多细胞系统，有更进一步的认识。我们现在已经知道基本规则了，如果我们可以从这些原始生命体上进一步弄懂它们，这些规则也有希望能够应用到人类其它疾病与行为上。我希望你们已经学到细菌是可以区分你我，使用这两种分子，它们可以表达「我」和「你」。当然，这就是我们所做的不仅只在分子层面上，同样也在行为上，只是我在分子层次上想的多一点。
en:What I would hope that I could further argue to youis that this is the invention of multicellularity.Bacteria have been on the Earth for billions of years;humans, couple hundred thousand.We think bacteria made the rulesfor how multicellular organization works.We think, by studying bacteria,we&#39;re going to be able to have insight about multicellularity in the human body.We know that the principles and the rules,if we can figure them out in these sort of primitive organisms,the hope is that they will be appliedto other human diseases and human behaviors as well.I hope that what you&#39;ve learnedis that bacteria can distinguish self from other.By using these two molecules they can say &quot;me&quot; and they can say &quot;you.&quot;Again of course that&#39;s what we do,both in a molecular way,and also in an outward way,but I think about the molecular stuff.
时间：15:56
zh-cn:这完全就是你们体内正在发生的事情。你们的心脏和肾脏细胞不会每天混杂在一起，这是因为你体内有一大堆化学反应不断地进行着，这些分子能够区分不同的细胞群组，还有它们所应该执行的任务。再一次，我们认为细菌发明了这个机制，你只不过是多演化出了一些铃铛与哨子而已，但是所有的概念都包含在这个我们所研究的简单系统中。
en:This is exactly what happens in your body.It&#39;s not like your heart cells and your kidney cells get all mixed up every day,and that&#39;s because there&#39;s all of this chemistry going on,these molecules that say who each of these groups of cells is,and what their tasks should be.Again, we think that bacteria invented that,and you&#39;ve just evolved a few more bells and whistles,but all of the ideas are in these simple systems that we can study.
时间：16:19
zh-cn:最后，只是再一次重申，这个研究的实际应用方面，是我们已经制造出了这些「反聚量感应分子」，它们正作为新一代的疗法被开发研究中。为了鼓励地球上生存的所有对人有益的细菌，我们也制造了「强化聚量感应分子」。因此，我们已经锁定了这些系统，让这些分子运作得更好。请记得在你体内体表，有超过你自身细胞十倍的细菌，它们使你保持健康。我们也努力加强你和你的共生的细菌之间交流，让你更健康，让这种互动更有益。让细菌只做我们希望它们做的事情。防止细菌做我们不希望它们做的事情。
en:The final thing is, again just to reiterate that there&#39;s this practical part,and so we&#39;ve made these anti-quorum sensing moleculesthat are being developed as new kinds of therapeutics.But then, to finish with a plug for all the good and miraculous bacteriathat live on the Earth,we&#39;ve also made pro-quorum sensing molecules.So, we&#39;ve targeted those systems to make the molecules work better.Remember you have these 10 times or more bacterial cellsin you or on you, keeping you healthy.What we&#39;re also trying to do is to beef up the conversationof the bacteria that live as mutualists with you,in the hopes of making you more healthy,making those conversations better,so bacteria can do things that we want them to dobetter than they would be on their own.
时间：17:01
zh-cn:最后，我希望让你们看看我在新泽西，普林斯顿大学实验室的成员。我今天所告诉你们的每一个发现，都是由照片中的某人所完成的。我希望当你们学到东西的同时比如：自然世界是怎样运作的，我只是想说，任何时候，当你们在报纸上看到某事，或是你们听到某些有关自然的，好玩事情的演讲，都是由年轻人完成的。科学是由这种年龄层的人所造就的。这些二、三十岁的年轻人他们是推动这个国家科学发现的引擎。我真的是非常幸运能与这群年轻人一起共事。我自己在不断地变老，但他们却是始终不变，这真是一个美好得不能再好的工作。我要谢谢你们的邀请。非常荣幸能参加这个大会。
en:Finally, I wanted to show youthis is my gang at Princeton, New Jersey.Everything I told you about was discovered by someone in that picture.I hope when you learn things,like about how the natural world works —I just want to say that whenever you read something in the newspaperor you get to hear some talk about something ridiculous in the natural worldit was done by a child.Science is done by that demographic.All of those people are between 20 and 30 years old,and they are the engine that drives scientific discovery in this country.It&#39;s a really lucky demographic to work with.I keep getting older and older and they&#39;re always the same age,and it&#39;s just a crazy delightful job.I want to thank you for inviting me here.It&#39;s a big treat for me to get to come to this conference.
时间：17:45
zh-cn:掌声
en:(Applause)
时间：17:50
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thanks.
时间：17:51
zh-cn:掌声
en:(Applause)
