时间： 0:13
zh-cn:发明家 亚历山大·格来汉姆·贝尔 在打通了第一通电话后说:&quot;您好，请问这是 达美乐披萨 吗？（笑声）我非常感谢你们。如另一个名人，杰里·加西亚 说：“多么怪异，漫长的旅程。”而他该说的是，“这旅程正要变的多么怪异，漫长。”此时此刻，你正看着我的上半身。我的下半身正出席着另一个会议 —（笑声）是在另一个国家的会议。原来一个人，可以同时在两个地方出现。尽管如此，没能到现场，我很抱歉。有机会再向你解释。
en:Well, as Alexander Graham Bell famously saidon his first successful telephone call,&quot;Hello, is that Domino&#39;s Pizza?&quot;(Laughter)I just really want to thank you very much.As another famous man, Jerry Garcia, said,&quot;What a strange, long trip.&quot;And he should have said,&quot;What a strange, long trip it&#39;s about to become.&quot;At this very moment, you are viewing my upper half.My lower half is appearing at a different conference(Laughter)in a different country.You can, it turns out, be in two places at once.But still, I&#39;m sorry I can&#39;t be with you in person.I&#39;ll explain at another time.
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:也想向你保证，虽然我是个摇滚明星，但我的愿望并不包括按摩浴缸。科技让我兴奋之处不只是能在 MP3 播放机里放入更多首歌。革命 — 这个革命 — 不只如此。我希望，我相信。数码时代真正让我兴奋的，让我欣喜若狂的，是梦想与实践的距离已缩短。以前，若想录制一首歌，你需要一间录音室，和一位制作人。现在，你需要的仅是一台手提电脑。如果要制作电影，你需要大量的器材和好莱坞级的资金。现在你只需要一架手掌般大小的摄影机，和购买空白光碟的几块钱。想象已脱离旧约束。那让我特别兴奋。每当我看见那种想法显现，我都无比欣喜。
en:And though I&#39;m a rock star,I just want to assure you that none of my wishes will include a hot tub.But what really turns me on about technologyis not just the ability to get more songs on MP3 players.The revolution — this revolution — is much bigger than that.I hope, I believe.What turns me on about the digital age,what excites me personally,is that you have closed the gap between dreaming and doing.You see, it used to be that if you wanted to make a record of a song,you needed a studio and a producer.Now, you need a laptop.If you wanted to make a film, you needed a mass of equipmentand a Hollywood budget.Now, you need a camera that fits in your palm,and a couple of bucks for a blank DVD.Imagination has been decoupled from the old constraints.And that really, really excites me.I&#39;m excited when I glimpse that kind of thinking writ large.
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:我更想看到理想主义脱离旧约束。政治，经济，心理，等等。地缘政界有许多该向数码界学习的。你们轻易地把没人知道能动摇的障碍扫到一旁去。那就是我今天想提的。也许我该解释，我为什么，怎么，来到这里。这是二十年前开始的旅程。你也许会记得这首歌，“We Are the World,&quot;或，“Do They Know It&#39;s Christmas?&quot;援助乐团, 现场援助（演唱会）。非常高大，头发斑白的摇滚巨星，兼我的朋友鲍勃·格尔多夫 爵士，挑战我 来“喂养世界”。那是很重要的一刻，那一刻彻底地改变我的一生。那个夏天，我和我太太，艾丽,去了埃塞俄比亚。我们悄悄地去了解那边的情况。我们在埃塞俄比亚住了一个月，在一个孤儿院工作。那里的小孩给我取了个名字。他们叫我，“那个留着胡子的女孩。”
en:What I would like to see is idealism decoupled from all constraints.Political, economic, psychological, whatever.The geopolitical world has got a lot to learn from the digital world.From the ease with which you swept away obstaclesthat no one knew could even be budged.And that&#39;s actually what I&#39;d like to talk about today.First, though, I should probably explain why, and how,I got to this place.It&#39;s a journey that started 20 years ago.You may remember that song, &quot;We Are the World,&quot;or, &quot;Do They Know It&#39;s Christmas?&quot;Band Aid, Live Aid.Another very tall, grizzled rock star, my friend Sir Bob Geldof,issued a challenge to &quot;feed the world.&quot;It was a great moment, and it utterly changed my life.That summer, my wife, Ali, and myself went to Ethiopia.We went on the quiet to see for ourselves what was going on.We lived in Ethiopia for a month, working at an orphanage.The children had a name for me.They called me, &quot;The girl with the beard.&quot;
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:别问我为什么。我们发现非洲充满魔力。旷阔的天空，宽阔的心胸，光亮的大陆。美丽，高贵的人。任何为非洲付出过的人，都回得到更多的回报。埃塞俄比亚不只让我感到震撼，她让我开阔视野。我们在孤儿院的最后一天，有个男人把他的婴儿交给我说，“你能把我的儿子一起带走吗？”他知道，在爱尔兰，他的儿子就能活下去，在埃塞俄比亚，他的儿子就会死去。当时正处那可怕的饥荒。我拒绝了他。那是一个很不舒服的感觉，可是我还是拒绝了他。并且是我无法忘记的感觉。就在那一刻，我开始了这趟旅程。
en:Don&#39;t ask.Anyway, we found Africa to be a magical place.Big skies, big hearts, big, shining continent.Beautiful, royal people.Anybody who ever gave anything to Africa got a lot more back.Ethiopia didn&#39;t just blow my mind; it opened my mind.Anyway, on our last day at this orphanagea man handed me his baby and said,&quot;Would you take my son with you?&quot;He knew, in Ireland, that his son would live,and that in Ethiopia, his son would die.It was the middle of that awful famine.Well, I turned him down.And it was a funny kind of sick feeling, but I turned him down.And it&#39;s a feeling I can&#39;t ever quite forget.And in that moment, I started this journey.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:就在那一刻，我成了最糟糕的一样东西。我成了有主张的摇滚明星。只是这不是什么主张，是嘛？每天，六千五百位非洲人死于艾滋病—一个可以避免，可以治疗的疾病—只因为缺乏我们在药房就能买到的药。这不是什么主张。这是危机。非洲有一千一百万个艾滋孤儿，到了二零一零年估计有二千万个。这不是什么主张。这是危机。今天，每一天，九千位非洲人会感染人类免疫缺陷病毒，因为歧视和缺乏教育。这不是什么主张。这是危机。所以，我们在讨论的是人权。像人般活着的权利。活着的权利。在非洲，人性的尊严，平等的理念，面对着前所未有的威胁。
en:In that moment, I became the worst thing of all:I became a rock star with a cause. (Laughter)Except this isn&#39;t the cause, is it?Six-and-a-half thousand Africans dying every single day from AIDS —a preventable, treatable disease —for lack of drugs we can get in any pharmacy.That&#39;s not a cause. That&#39;s an emergency.11 million AIDS orphans in Africa,20 million by the end of the decade.That&#39;s not a cause. That&#39;s an emergency.Today, every day, 9,000 more Africanswill catch HIV because of stigmatization and lack of education.That&#39;s not a cause. That&#39;s an emergency.So what we&#39;re talking about here is human rights.The right to live like a human.The right to live, period.And what we&#39;re facing in Africa isan unprecedented threat to human dignity and equality.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:接着，我必须清楚地指出问题的本质。问题的实质。因为这不完全是慈善。这其实有关正义。真的。这不是做慈善，这是伸张正义。正是。但那很可惜，因为我们很会做慈善。美国人，像爱尔兰人，都很会做慈善。就连最平穷的邻里都捐多于自己所能负担的。我们爱捐，并且捐很多。看看大家对海啸的回应，那很振奋人心。可是正义，比慈善更难拿捏。非洲使我们所谓的正义显得可笑。她使我们的平等主义显得荒唐。我们的虔诚被嘲笑。我们的关心被怀疑。我们的承诺被质问。因为，如果我们扪心自问，我们必须承认，现在在非洲所发生的事情，不可能被允许发生在其他的地方。
en:The next thing I&#39;d like to be clear about is what this problem is,and what this problem isn&#39;t.Because this is not all about charity.This is about justice. Really.This is not about charity. This is about justice.That&#39;s right.And that&#39;s too bad, because we&#39;re very good at charity.Americans, like Irish people, are good at it.Even the poorest neighborhoods give more than they can afford.We like to give, and we give a lot.Look at the response to the tsunami — it&#39;s inspiring.But justice is a tougher standard than charity.You see, Africa makes a fool of our idea of justice.It makes a farce of our idea of equality.It mocks our pieties. It doubts our concern.It questions our commitment.Because there is no way we can look at what&#39;s happening in Africa,and if we&#39;re honest,conclude that it would ever be allowed to happen anywhere else.
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:就如你在影片里所听到的，其他地方，不在这里。不在这里，不在美国，不在欧洲。你们熟悉的一位国家首脑向我承认。并且那是事实。这种人命大量的流失不可能在任何一个地方被接受，除了非洲。非洲正燃烧着。如果我们由衷地相信非洲人与我们是平等的，我们会更积极地去灭火。我们都拿着水桶，但我们真正需要的是救火队。
en:As you heard in the film, anywhere else, not here.Not here, not in America, not in Europe.In fact, a head of state that you&#39;re all familiar withadmitted this to me. And it&#39;s really true.There is no chance this kind of hemorrhaging of human lifewould be accepted anywhere else other than Africa.Africa is a continent in flames.And deep down, if we really accepted that Africans were equal to us,we would all do more to put the fire out.We&#39;re standing around with watering cans,when what we really need is the fire brigade.
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:这没有海啸那么戏剧化。如果你仔细想想，这太疯狂了。是不是什么都要看起来像动作片，才不会被我们抛诸脑后？原来无数人命慢慢的被熄灭还不够戏剧化。还能避免的灾难，不比曾经能避免的灾难有趣。那很可笑。我相信这种想法，会让在场的知识份子很反感。非洲一天六千五百万个人死去也许是非洲的危机，可是这件事没有每晚出现在晚间新闻，欧洲的我们，或在美国的你们，都没有把这归为当务之急—今晚我想指出，因为如此，身处危机的是我们。虽然在反恐战争中，非洲并不被瞩目，我认为，也许快要了。每个星期，都有非洲村庄被宗教极端份子占领。他们正尝试在混乱中带来次序。为什么我们却置之不理？
en:You see, it&#39;s not as dramatic as the tsunami.It&#39;s crazy, really, when you think about it.Does stuff have to look like an action movie these daysto exist in the front of our brain?The slow extinguishing of countless livesis just not dramatic enough, it would appear.Catastrophes that we can avertare not as interesting as ones we could avert.Funny, that.Anyway, I believe that that kind of thinkingoffends the intellectual rigor in this room.Six-and-a-half thousand people dying a day in Africa may be Africa&#39;s crisis,but the fact that it&#39;s not on the nightly news,that we in Europe, or you in America,are not treating it like an emergency —I want to argue with you tonight that that&#39;s our crisis.I want to argue that though Africa is not the front line in the war against terror,it could be soon.Every week, religious extremists take another African village.They&#39;re attempting to bring order to chaos.Well, why aren&#39;t we?
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:贫困会带来绝望。我们清楚知道。绝望会衍生暴力。我们清楚知道。在乱世，若能化敌为友，那不是比未来须要提防他们更便宜，更聪明吗？反恐战争和铲除贫困是息息相关的。那不是我说的。是 克林·鲍威尔 说的。当军方告诉我们这不是一个靠军事力量就能打赢的仗，也许我们该留意。机会已到来，并且是真实的。并不是在篇故事。这也不是痴心妄想。发展中国家面对的问题是个让已发展国家重新定义自己的机会。我们不只会改变他们的一生，也会转变他们如何看我们。在这紧张，危险的时代，那也许是明智之举。
en:Poverty breeds despair. We know this.Despair breeds violence. We know this.In turbulent times, isn&#39;t it cheaper, and smarter,to make friends out of potential enemiesthan to defend yourself against them later?&quot;The war against terror is bound up in the war against poverty.&quot;And I didn&#39;t say that. Colin Powell said that.Now when the military are telling us that this is a warthat cannot be won by military might alone,maybe we should listen.There&#39;s an opportunity here, and it&#39;s real.It&#39;s not spin. It&#39;s not wishful thinking.The problems facing the developing worldafford us in the developed worlda chance to re-describe ourselves to the world.We will not only transform other people&#39;s lives,but we will also transform the way those other lives see us.And that might be smart in these nervous, dangerous times.
时间： 9:59
zh-cn:若以纯商业角度来看，你们不觉得抗逆转录病毒药物（抑制艾滋病的药物）能够很棒地推销西方的创造性和科技吗？怜悯之心会让我们显得更好？让我们进入正题。在世界某些地域，欧联和美国，并不是最让人悦目的品牌。霓虹灯正发出嘶嘶与噼啪声。有人用砖头在窗口砸了一个洞。区域经理已有些不安。我们西方不曾如此被注视过。我们所重视的价值，还在吗？我们的信用呢？这些东西在世界各地受到抨击。USA 品牌需要磨光。我是以一个粉丝的身份说。以一个产品的拥护者的身份。可是想想看。更多的抗逆转录病毒药物会更好。那是最简单的部分，或应该是的。
en:Don&#39;t you think that on a purely commercial level,that anti-retroviral drugs are great advertisementsfor Western ingenuity and technology?Doesn&#39;t compassion look well on us?And let&#39;s cut the crap for a second.In certain quarters of the world, brand EU, brand USA,is not at its shiniest.The neon sign is fizzing and cracking.Someone&#39;s put a brick through the window.The regional branch managers are getting nervous.Never before have we in the west been so scrutinized.Our values: do we have any?Our credibility?These things are under attack around the world.Brand USA could use some polishing.And I say that as a fan, you know?As a person who buys the products.But think about it.More anti-retrovirals make sense.But that&#39;s just the easy part, or ought to be.
时间：11:05
zh-cn:可是平等对待非洲，那是一个昂贵的主意。大规模的痛苦已让我们麻痹，不再在乎。我们到底还能做些什么？其实，比我们想象的多。我们不能解决所有的问题，可是我们能解决的，我认为，我们一定要。因为我们能，所以我们一定要。这是最直接，最正义的事实。这不是个理论。事实是，我们是有史以来第一代，能直视疾病和极度的贫困，直视着非洲所发生的，并且认真地说。我们没有必要忍受这一切。整个大陆被抹杀 — 我们没有必要忍受。
en:But equality for Africa —that&#39;s a big, expensive idea.You see, the scale of the suffering numbs us into a kind of indifference.What on earth can we all do about this?Well, much more than we think.We can&#39;t fix every problem, but the ones we can,I want to argue, we must.And because we can, we must.This is the straight truth, the righteous truth.It is not a theory.The fact is that ours is the first generationthat can look disease and extreme poverty in the eye,look across the ocean to Africa, and say this, and mean it:we do not have to stand for this.A whole continent written off — we do not have to stand for this.
时间：12:00
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：12:10
zh-cn:让我不带任何讽刺地说—在我让你想起嬉皮士前。忘了六十年代。我们能改变世界。我不能，你不能，可是我们能。我真的相信这个房里的人能。看看 盖茨基金会。他们做了一些不思议，难以置信的事。我们的合作，真的可以改变这个世界。我们能逆转原本不能避免的，转换上百万个样貌和感觉和我们一样的人的生活质地。很抱歉，我想笑，因为你们的确和六十年代，海特—阿舍伯里 时很不一样。
en:And let me say this without a trace of irony —before I back it up to a bunch of ex-hippies.Forget the &#39;60s. We can change the world.I can&#39;t; you can&#39;t, as individuals; but we can change the world.I really believe that, the people in this room.Look at the Gates Foundation.They&#39;ve done incredible stuff, unbelievable stuff.But working together, we can actually change the world.We can turn the inevitable outcomes,and transform the quality of life for millions of liveswho look and feel rather like us, when you&#39;re up close.I&#39;m sorry to laugh here, but you do look so differentthan you did in Haight-Ashbury in the &#39;60s.
时间：13:05
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：13:08
zh-cn:你们是为了这一刻而设计的。这是你们年少轻狂时所种下的种子开花结果。是你们年轻时孕育的理想。这让我兴奋。这房间是为了这一刻而诞生的。这正是我今晚想要说的。你们不是一直都想改变世界吗？是的，你们的确改变了数码世界。现在，因为你们，我们能改变物质世界。这是事实。经济学家证实过，而且他们懂得比我多。那么为什么我们没有确实行动呢？可能当我们承认有什么我们能做时，我们就得有所行动。那让人很困扰。这平等的主义让人很困扰。可是，有史以来，我们第一次有科技，有技术，有资金，有能改变生命的药。
en:But I want to argue that this is the moment that you are designed for.It is the flowering of the seeds you plantedin earlier, headier days.Ideas that you gestated in your youth.This is what excites me.This room was born for this moment,is really what I want to say to you tonight.Most of you started out wanting to change the world, didn&#39;t you?Most of you did, the digital world.Well, now, actually because of you,it is possible to change the physical world.It&#39;s a fact.Economists confirm it, and they know much more than I do.So why, then, are we not pumping our fists into the air?Probably because when we admit we can do something about it,we&#39;ve got to do something about it.It is a pain in the arse.This equality business is actually a pain in the arse.But for the first time in history, we have the technology;we have the know-how; we have the cash;we have the life-saving drugs.
时间：14:25
zh-cn:可我们有意志力吗?我希望答案很明显，但我不是个嬉皮士。我并不特别喜欢那模糊温暖的感觉。我头上也没插花。其实，我来至庞克摇滚。克莱什乐团 穿的是大军靴，不是拖鞋。可是我看得到韧性。西岸所提的爱与和平，都有确实的行动。理想脱离行动只是一个梦。可是理想加上实用，卷起袖子，让世界稍稍屈服，非常振奋人心。那很真实，很有力。那对你们来说是很真实地存在。
en:Do we have the will?I hope this is obvious, but I&#39;m not a hippie.And I&#39;m not really one for the warm, fuzzy feeling.I do not have flowers in my hair.Actually, I come from punk rock.The Clash wore big army boots, not sandals.But I know toughness when I see it.And for all the talk of peace and love on the West Coast,there was muscle to the movement that started out here.You see, idealism detached from action is just a dream.But idealism allied with pragmatism,with rolling up your sleeves and making the world bend a bit,is very exciting. It&#39;s very real. It&#39;s very strong.And it&#39;s very present in a crowd like you.
时间：15:25
zh-cn:去年，在我帮忙成立的组织，DATA,我们推出了一项呼吁对抗艾滋病和极度贫困的精神。我们叫它 一运动。因为我们深信一个人的行动能改变很多。可是很多人的行动联合成一足以改变世界。是时候验证那想法了。历史总有些让文明世界重新定义自己的时机。我们相信现在正是。我们相信，可能就在这一刻，世界终于决定不再忍受对非洲的肆虐。这一刻可能是我们决定认真地去改变多数地球人的未来。
en:Last year at DATA, this organization I helped set up,we launched a campaign to summon this spiritin the fight against AIDS and extreme poverty.We&#39;re calling it the ONE Campaign.It&#39;s based on our belief that the action of one personcan change a lot,but the actions of many coming together as onecan change the world.Well, we feel that now is the time to prove we&#39;re right.There are moments in history when civilization redefines itself.We believe this is one.We believe that this could be the time when the world finally decidesthat the wanton loss of life in Africa is just no longer acceptable.This could be the time that we finally get seriousabout changing the future for most people who live on planet Earth.
时间：16:23
zh-cn:动力在增加。有些不稳健，但在增加。今年是考验的一年，尤其八大工业国的领袖，在这关键性的一刻，世界的焦点都在他们的身上。最近，我对布什的行政感到失望。他们对非洲做出承诺。他们做出非常棒的承诺，其实也履行了不少。可是却没履行一些。事实是，基层没有让他们感受到压力。可是我的失望变得客观当我和美国人谈话，我听见他们对赤字的担心，对国家经济的担忧，我明白。可是基层的压力比你想象的还多，如果我们能组织起来。
en:Momentum has been building.Lurching a little, but it&#39;s building.This year is a test for us all,especially the leaders of the G8 nations,who really are on the line here,with all the world in history watching.I have been, of late, disappointed with the Bush Administration.They started out with such promise on Africa.They made some really great promises,and actually have fulfilled a lot of them.But some of them they haven&#39;t.They don&#39;t feel the push from the ground, is the truth.But my disappointment has much more perspectivewhen I talk to American people,and I hear their worries about the deficit,and the fiscal well being of their country.I understand that.But there&#39;s much more push from the ground than you&#39;d think,if we got organized.
时间：17:23
zh-cn:我想传达的是，如果你同意，你可以协助我，援助非洲非常划算，正当美国最需要时。以最粗俗的方法说，这是一项利润丰厚的投资。不只能救人，还能得到信誉，稳定和保障。所以我希望，恕我冒昧的要求，而且不从我三个愿望里扣除。
en:What I try to communicate, and you can help me if you agree,is that aid for Africa is just great value for moneyat a time when America really needs it.Putting it in the crassest possible terms,the investment reaps huge returns.Not only in lives saved, but in goodwill, stabilityand security that we&#39;ll gain.So this is what I hope that you will do, if I could be so bold,and not have it deducted from my number of wishes.
时间：18:00
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：18:03
zh-cn:我希望除了个人的善为，你能告诉你的政治家，不要对不起非洲，不要对不起美国，不要对不起世界。如果你愿意，允许他们，让他们用他们的政治经费，你的资金，你的国库来救百万人的性命。那是我希望你能做的。因为我们需要你的智力资本：你的主意，你的技能，你的创造力。在场的各位，你们占有很特别的位置。我们讨论的一些科技，是你们发明的，或改革了它们的用法。你们把这时代的精神从模拟改成数码，推进了极限。我们希望你们给予我们能量。给予我们梦想，实践。
en:What I hope is that beyond individual merciful acts,that you will tell the politicians to do right by Africa,by America and by the world.Give them permission, if you like,to spend their political capital and your financial capital,your national purse on saving the lives of millions of people.That&#39;s really what I would like you to do.Because we also need your intellectual capital:your ideas, your skills, your ingenuity.And you, at this conference, are in a unique position.Some of the technologies we&#39;ve been talking about, you invented them,or at least revolutionized the way that they&#39;re used.Together you have changed the zeitgeist from analog to digital,and pushed the boundaries.And we&#39;d like you to give us that energy.Give us that kind of dreaming, that kind of doing.
时间：19:06
zh-cn:如我所说，我们须考虑的事有两件。非洲，和自我观。许多人开始了解这点。很多运动崛起。艺人，政治家，偶像，神父，总裁，非政府组织，母亲联盟，学生联盟。很多人正聚集在我先前提到的庞大机构，一运动。我认为他们脑子里只有一个想法，就是，你在世界的哪里出生，不该决定你在世界是否生存。
en:As I say, there&#39;re two things on the line here.There&#39;s the continent Africa.But there&#39;s also our sense of ourselves.People are starting to figure this out.Movements are springing up.Artists, politicians, pop stars, priests, CEOs,NGOs, mothers&#39; unions, student unions.A lot of people are getting together, and workingunder this umbrella I told you about earlier, the ONE Campaign.I think they just have one idea in their mind,which is, where you live in the worldshould not determine whether you live in the world.
时间：19:49
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：19:53
zh-cn:历史，像上帝，正在看着我们的一举一动。当他们在记载历史时我认为我们的时代会因为三件事而留名。这整个时代，就三件事。数码革命，是的。反恐战争，是的。和当我们面对着非洲的危机，所做或没做的。有人说我们没办法帮忙。我说我们没办法不帮忙。谢谢，非常感谢你们。
en:History, like God, is watching what we do.When the history books get written,I think our age will be remembered for three things.Really, it&#39;s just three things this whole age will be remembered for.The digital revolution, yes.The war against terror, yes.And what we did or did not do to put out the fires in Africa.Some say we can&#39;t afford to. I say we can&#39;t afford not to.Thank you, thank you very much.
时间：20:31
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：20:38
zh-cn:好的，我的三个愿望。TED 答应实现的愿望。如果这是真的，而我相信是的，你们所创造的数码世界已让创意想象脱离物质界的约束。那这应该是易如反掌。
en:Okay, my three wishes.The ones that TED has offered to grant.You see, if this is true, and I believe it is,that the digital world you all created has uncoupledthe creative imagination from the physical constraints of matter,this should be a piece of piss.
时间：21:03
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：21:07
zh-cn:必须让你们知道，我的愿望清单原本长许多。大多数的愿望不可能实现，有些不实际更有一两个是不道德的。
en:I should add that this started out as a much longer list of wishes.Most of them impossible, some of them impracticaland one or two of them certainly immoral.
时间：21:16
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：21:20
zh-cn:这玩意儿，很容易上瘾，当有人为你结帐时。这是我的第一个愿望。我希望你们能帮非洲建立一个多过一百万美国社会运动家的社会运动。那是我的第一个愿望。我想那有可能。几分钟前，我谈到到处崛起的民启运动。真的有好多。在 一运动 的涵盖下，我的机构，DATA， 和其他的组织，已在利用从好莱坞至美国邻里的能量与热忱。我们知道有足够的能量发起这项运动。我们只差你们的协助。
en:This business, it gets to be addictive, you know what I mean,when somebody else is picking up the tab.Anyway, here&#39;s number one.I wish for you to help build a social movementof more than one million American activists for Africa.That is my first wish.I believe it&#39;s possible.A few minutes ago, I talked about all the citizens&#39; campaigns that are springing up.You know, there&#39;s lots out there.And with this one campaign as our umbrella,my organization, DATA, and other groups,have been tapping into the energy and the enthusiasmthat&#39;s out there from Hollywood into the heartland of America.We know there&#39;s more than enough energy to power this movement.We just need your help in making it happen.
时间：22:17
zh-cn:我们要在场的所有的人，教堂美国，商业美国，微软美国，苹果美国，可乐美国，百事美国，书呆的美国，吵闹的美国。我们不能坐在一旁装酷。我相信如果我们能建起一个以百万美国人的运动，我们不会被拒绝。我们会让国会聆听。我们会在 康迪·赖斯 笔记本的第一页，直到 椭圆形办公室 .有一百万美国人— 我知道有—准备拨电话，准备收到电邮。确定我们能改写历史，改写非洲的历史。我需要你们帮忙联系他们。我知道 约翰·盖奇 与 太阳计算机系统公司 已决定参与，可是我们还想跟更多的人沟通。
en:We want all of you here, church America, corporate America,Microsoft America, Apple America, Coke America,Pepsi America, nerd America, noisy America.We can&#39;t afford to be cool and sit this one out.I do believe if we build a movement that&#39;s one million Americans strong,we&#39;re not going to be denied.We will have the ear of Congress.We&#39;ll be the first page in Condi Rice&#39;s briefing book,and right into the Oval Office.If there&#39;s one million Americans — and I really know this —who are ready to make phone calls,who are ready to be on email,I am absolutely sure that we can actually changethe course of history, literally, for the continent of Africa.Anyway, so I&#39;d like your help in getting that signed up.I know John Gage and Sun Microsystems are already on board for this,but there&#39;s lots of you we&#39;d like to talk to.
时间：23:16
zh-cn:我的第二个愿望。我希望能为地球上所有每天用少过一美元生存的人换来一个媒体点击。那是一亿个媒体点击。可以是谷歌，可以是 AOL.斯蒂芬·凯斯, 拉里, 谢尔盖 — 已经做了很多。可以是 NBC. 可以是 ABC.其实今天，我们正和 ABC 讨论 奥斯卡.我们有个影片，由 激进媒体 的 乔恩·卡门 制作。可是我们需要一些播放时间。我们需要把统计的数字播放给美国人。我相信 杜魯門 说过的，如果你提供美国人事实，他们就会做正确的事。另一件重要的事，这不是 莎丽·斯特拉瑟斯.这必须被形容为一趟冒险旅程，不是个负担。
en:Right, my second wish, number two.I would like one media hit for every person on the planetwho is living on less than one dollar a day.That&#39;s one billion media hits.Could be on Google, could be on AOL.Steve Case, Larry, Sergey — they&#39;ve done a lot already.It could be NBC. It could be ABC.Actually we&#39;re talking to ABC today about the Oscars.We have a film, produced by Jon Kamen at Radical Media.But you know, we want, we need some airtime for our ideas.We need to get the math; we need to get the statistics out to the American people.I really believe that old Truman line,that if you give the American people the facts,they&#39;ll do the right thing.And, the other thing that&#39;s important is that this is not Sally Struthers.This has to be described as an adventure, not a burden.
时间：24:22
zh-cn:（影视）：一个接着一个，他们向前迈进一步，一个护士，一个教师，一个家庭主妇，生命获救了。问题很庞大。每三秒有一个人死去。过了三秒，又多一个。非洲，亚洲，甚至美国某些区域的状况已危急至援助组织，就像海啸时那样联合为一，行动一致。我们可以击败极度平困，饥饿，艾滋病。可是我们需要您的帮忙。多一个人，一封信，一把声音能为百万人改变生死。请加入我们。美国人有个前所未有的机会。我们能改写历史。我们能让贫困成为历史。一个，接着一个，接着一个。请到此网址探访 一。我们要的不是你的钱，我们要的是你的声音。
en:(Video): One by one they step forward,a nurse, a teacher, a homemaker,and lives are saved.The problem is enormous.Every three seconds one person dies.Another three seconds, one more.The situation is so desperate in parts of Africa,Asia, even America,that aid groups, just as they did for the tsunami,are uniting as one, acting as one.We can beat extreme poverty, starvation, AIDS.But we need your help.One more person, letter, voicewill mean the difference between life and deathfor millions of people.Please join us by working together.Americans have an unprecedented opportunity.We can make history.We can start to make poverty history.One, by one, by one.Please visit ONE at this address.We&#39;re not asking for your money. We&#39;re asking for your voice.
时间：25:22
zh-cn:好的，我希望 TED 能展现资讯的威力。改写条规，转变生命的威力，把一个非洲国家里的所有的医院，诊所，和学校联系起来。我希望那个国家是埃塞俄比亚。我相信我们能把埃塞俄比亚的每一所学校，每一间诊所，每一家医院联系起来。我们可以联上互联网。那是我的心愿，第三个心愿。我认为有可能的。我认为现场有足够的资金和智力来完成这件事。若那能实现，那会很振奋人心。如我先前说的，我到过埃塞俄比亚。我的旅程正是那从里开始的。已改变我们所有人的生命的互联网能够彻底改变一个国家，一个大洲一个还没到模拟，更别说数码的大洲，那让我很兴奋。可是不是一开始就这样的。
en:Bono: All right. I wish for TED to truly show the power of information,its power to rewrite the rules and transform lives,by connecting every hospital, health clinic and schoolin one African country.And I would like it to be Ethiopia.I believe we can connect every school in Ethiopia,every health clinic, every hospital —we can connect to the Internet.That is my wish, my third wish.I think it&#39;s possible.I think we have the money and brains in the room to do that.And that would be a mind-blowing wish to come true.I&#39;ve been to Ethiopia, as I said earlier.It&#39;s actually where it all started for me.The idea that the Internet, which changed all of our lives,can transform a country — and a continentthat has hardly made it to analog, let alone digital — blows my mind.But it didn&#39;t start out that way.
时间：26:38
zh-cn:第一通从波士顿到纽约的长途电话是在一八八五年通上的。就在九年后，便能从 阿迪斯阿貝巴播电到五百公里外的 哈拉雷.从那时便没什么进展。在埃塞俄比亚，申请电话线的平均等候时间是七至八年。可是当时没有无线科技。如你所见，我是爱尔兰人，我知道说话的重要性。沟通对埃塞俄比亚很重要 — 能转换整个国家。护士能得到更好的训练，药剂师能订购药物，医生能分享医疗资讯。把他们都联系起来是个很好很好的主意。那是我的第三个愿望，也是我在 TED 会议最后的一个愿望。再次谢谢你们。
en:The first long-distance line from Boston to New Yorkwas used in 1885 on the phone.It was just nine years later that Addis Ababawas connected by phone to Harare, which is 500 kilometers away.Since then, not that much has changed.The average waiting time to get a landline in Ethiopiais actually about seven or eight years.But wireless technology wasn&#39;t dreamt up then.Anyway, I&#39;m Irish, and as you can see,I know how important talking is.Communication is very important for Ethiopia — will transform the country.Nurses getting better training,pharmacists being able to order supplies,doctors sharing their expertise in all aspects of medicine.It&#39;s a very, very good idea to get them wired.And that is my third and final wish for you at the TED conference.Thank you very much once again.
时间：27:44
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
