时间： 0:12
zh-cn:现在我们处在经济危机困难重重的时刻。这种情况下，首当其冲的受害者，我认为是各种各种的公共开支，但更加命悬一线的是科学方面的公共开支，特别是以好奇心为导向的科学与探索。因此我想用15分钟来说服你，（削减科学开支）是相当愚蠢的。
en:We live in difficult and challengingeconomic times, of course.And one of the first victimsof difficult economic times,I think, is public spending of any kind,but certainly in the firing line at the momentis public spending for science,and particularly curiosity-led scienceand exploration.So I want to try and convince you in about 15 minutesthat that&#39;s a ridiculousand ludicrous thing to do.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:为了叙述一下背景我要给你们展示——我并不是要让你们看到TED有史以来最糟糕的幻灯片，但这是有点乱。（笑声）但这并不是我的错，这是从《卫报》那弄来的。这很清楚的展示了，科学的花费。因为我要说服继续给以好奇为导向的科学与探索提供资金，所以我得告诉你它的花费情况。这是个游戏，叫做”找出科学预算来“。这是英国政府开支图。你看，一年一共是6千2百亿英镑。
en:But I think to set the scene,I want to show — the next slide is not my attemptto show the worst TED slide in the history of TED,but it is a bit of a mess.(Laughter)But actually, it&#39;s not my fault; it&#39;s from the Guardian newspaper.And it&#39;s actually a beautiful demonstrationof how much science costs.Because, if I&#39;m going to make the casefor continuing to spend on curiosity-driven science and exploration,I should tell you how much it costs.So this is a game called &quot;spot the science budgets.&quot;This is the U.K. government spend.You see there, it&#39;s about 620 billion a year.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:科学预算在-看左边，有个紫色的圈圈还有黄色的圈圈。科学预算就是那个大黄圈圈旁边的一个小圈圈。是6千2百亿英镑中的33亿英镑。在英国，从医疗研究，空间探索，我工作的地方，日内瓦的CERN，粒子物理学，到工程，甚至是艺术和人文，给这一切提供资金的，就是那33亿英镑，那个小得不能再小的黄圈圈，在屏幕左上角的橙色圈圈旁边。这就是我们争论的对象。顺便一提，这个比率，同美国，德国和法国是一样的。全部科研在经济当中，公共拨款的，占GDP的百分之0.6.这就是我们所说的。
en:The science budget is actually —if you look to your left, there&#39;s a purple set of blobsand then yellow set of blobs.And it&#39;s one of the yellow set of blobsaround the big yellow blob.It&#39;s about 3.3 billion pounds per yearout of 620 billion.That funds everything in the U.K.from medical research, space exploration,where I work, at CERN in Geneva, particle physics,engineering, even arts and humanities,funded from the science budget,which is that 3.3 billion, that little, tiny yellow blobaround the orange blob at the top left of the screen.So that&#39;s what we&#39;re arguing about.That percentage, by the way, is about the samein the U.S. and Germany and France.R&amp;D in total in the economy,publicly funded, is about0.6 percent of GDP.So that&#39;s what we&#39;re arguing about.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:首先我要说的是，这是来自于“太阳系的奇观”，我们对太阳系和宇宙的探索展现给了我们无与伦比的美丽。这张照片是在我们拍完“太阳系的奇观”之后，卡西尼号太空探测器在土星附近发回来的。因此它没有在那个系列里面。这是恩克拉多斯卫星。角落里那个巨大的白色的范围就是土星，是这张图片的背景。那里的新月形就是恩克拉多斯卫星，差不多和不列颠诸岛一样大。直径有500千米。一个很小的卫星。多么美丽，多么令人着迷——顺便我要说下，这是张未经过处理的图片。是黑白的，从土星轨道发过来的。
en:The first thing I want to say,and this is straight from &quot;Wonders of the Solar System,&quot;is that our exploration of the solar system and the universehas shown us that it is indescribably beautiful.This is a picture that actually was sent backby the Cassini space probe around Saturn,after we&#39;d finished filming &quot;Wonders of the Solar System.&quot;So it isn&#39;t in the series.It&#39;s of the moon Enceladus.So that big sweeping, whitesphere in the corner is Saturn,which is actually in the background of the picture.And that crescent there is the moon Enceladus,which is about as big as the British Isles.It&#39;s about 500 kilometers in diameter.So, tiny moon.What&#39;s fascinating and beautiful ...this an unprocessed picture, by the way, I should say,it&#39;s black and white, straight from Saturnian orbit.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:很美丽的地方是，又可以在这里看到一些微弱的像烟雾一样的鬼火冉冉升起。我们在“太阳系奇观”中就是这样用视觉展现的。多么漂亮的图片。我们发现了那些微弱的鬼火其实在这个小卫星的表面上突起的冰泉它本身就很美丽和令人着迷，但我们认为使那些冰泉运动的背后的机械要求在这个卫星的地面之下，有液态水组成的湖泊。这很重要，因为，在我们的星球，地球上，能够找到液态水的地方，我们能找到生命。因此，能找到足够的证据证明离地球7亿5千万英里远的卫星的地表之下有着液态水的存在是相当惊人的。我们基本上是说也许这是太阳系里的又一个生命的摇篮。这是张图片，我只是想要展示这张照片。又是一张恩克拉多斯卫星的照片。这是卡西尼号飞到它下面时拍的。因此靠得很近，离卫星表面只有几百千米。这也是一张冰泉的真实照片，无比美丽。
en:What&#39;s beautiful is, you can probably see on the limb theresome faint, sort of,wisps of almost smokerising up from the limb.This is how we visualize that in &quot;Wonders of the Solar System.&quot;It&#39;s a beautiful graphic.What we found out were that those faint wispsare actually fountains of icerising up from the surface of this tiny moon.That&#39;s fascinating and beautiful in itself,but we think that the mechanismfor powering those fountainsrequires there to be lakes of liquid waterbeneath the surface of this moon.And what&#39;s important about thatis that, on our planet, on Earth,wherever we find liquid water,we find life.So, to find strong evidenceof liquid, pools of liquid, beneath the surface of a moon750 million miles away from the Earthis really quite astounding.So what we&#39;re saying, essentially,is maybe that&#39;s a habitat for life in the solar system.Well, let me just say, that was a graphic. I just want to show this picture.That&#39;s one more picture of Enceladus.This is when Cassini flew beneath Enceladus.So it made a very low pass,just a few hundred kilometers above the surface.And so this, again, a real picture of the ice fountains rising up into space,absolutely beautiful.
时间： 3:57
zh-cn:但这不是太阳系最有可能有生命存在的星球。最有可能的是这个地方，木星的一个卫星，欧罗巴。同样，我们得飞到木星系统才能了解这个卫星，同大多数卫星一样，只不过是个没有生气的岩石球。它事实上是个冰球。看看欧罗巴卫星的地表，是一层很厚的冰面，大概有一百千米深。通过检测欧罗巴卫星是怎样同木星的磁场相互作用的，和研究你在这种图片上可以看见的冰面上的裂缝我们很肯定的推测欧罗巴的整个地表下，有着像海洋一样的液体环绕着。冰面之下，有着大量的液体。我们认为，可能有几百千米深。我们认为是咸水，就意味着木星这颗卫星上的水，比地球上所有海洋里的水还要多。因此，木星周围的一个小卫星可能是我们所知的地球之外的最有可能找到生命存在的星球。了不起的发现。
en:But that&#39;s not the prime candidate for life in the solar system.That&#39;s probably this place,which is a moon of Jupiter, Europa.And again, we had to fly to the Jovian systemto get any sense that this moon, as most moons,was anything other than a dead ball of rock.It&#39;s actually an ice moon.So what you&#39;re looking at is the surface of the moon Europa,which is a thick sheet of ice, probably a hundred kilometers thick.But by measuring the way thatEuropa interactswith the magnetic field of Jupiter,and looking at how those cracks in the icethat you can see there on that graphic move around,we&#39;ve inferred very stronglythat there&#39;s an ocean of liquid surroundingthe entire surface of Europa.So below the ice, there&#39;s an ocean of liquid around the whole moon.It could be hundreds of kilometers deep, we think.We think it&#39;s saltwater, and that would mean thatthere&#39;s more water on that moon of Jupiterthan there is in all the oceans of the Earth combined.So that place, a little moon around Jupiter,is probably the prime candidatefor finding life on a moonor a body outside the Earth, that we know of.Tremendous and beautiful discovery.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:对太阳系的探索让我们发现了太阳系的美丽。也为回答人们会问的最深远的问题之一指明了道路。这个问题就是，“宇宙里，我们是孤独的吗？”除了让人们称奇之外，探索和科学还有其他的作用吗？有的。这是一张非常著名的照片，在我的第一个圣诞夜是拍摄的，1968年的12月24日。那时我大约只有八个月大。是由阿波罗八号绕到月亮背面时拍摄的。阿波罗八号上看到的地球升起来。很著名的照片，很多人说过，正是这张照片拯救了1968年，那时动荡不安的一年——巴黎的学生暴乱，越南战争的巅峰。很多人这样评价这张照片，戈尔在TED的讲台上多次说起是因为这张照片，可以说是环保运动的开端。因为，那是我们第一次看见地球，不是一个牢固的，固定的不可摧毁的地方，而是一个很小，看上去很脆弱的星球，悬挂在一片漆黑的宇宙空间之中。
en:Our exploration of the solar systemhas taught us that the solar system is beautiful.It may also have pointed the way to answeringone of the most profound questions that you can possibly ask,which is: &quot;Are we alone in the universe?&quot;Is there any other use to exploration and science,other than just a sense of wonder?Well, there is.This is a very famous picturetaken, actually, on my first Christmas Eve,December 24th, 1968,when I was about eight months old.It was taken by Apollo 8as it went around the back of the moon.Earthrise from Apollo 8.A famous picture; many people have said that it&#39;s the picturethat saved 1968,which was a turbulent year —the student riots in Paris,the height of the Vietnam War.The reason many people think that about this picture,and Al Gore has said it many times, actually, on the stage at TED,is that this picture, arguably, wasthe beginning of the environmental movement.Because, for the first time,we saw our world,not as a solid, immovable,kind of indestructible place,but as a very small, fragile-looking worldjust hanging against the blackness of space.
时间： 6:15
zh-cn:关于太空探索和阿波罗计划，很少提起的是它给经济作出的贡献。我是说，你可以论述它是多么美好多么了不起的成就，拍了这样的照片，但它耗资巨大，不是吗？事实上，有人做过了许多经济效益的研究，阿波罗计划的经济影响。最大的一次是在1975年由大通计量经济学进行的。结果显示，花在阿波罗计划上的每一美元，给美国经济带回了14美元。因此阿波罗计划在激励方面，在工程学成就方面在鼓舞年轻的科学家和工程师方面，收益比投资高出14倍。所以说，探索项目可以养活自己。
en:What&#39;s also not often saidabout the space exploration, about the Apollo program,is the economic contribution it made.I mean while you can make arguments that it was wonderfuland a tremendous achievementand delivered pictures like this,it cost a lot, didn&#39;t it?Well, actually, many studies have been doneabout the economic effectiveness,the economic impact of Apollo.The biggest one was in 1975 by Chase Econometrics.And it showed that for every $1 spent on Apollo,14 came back into the U.S. economy.So the Apollo program paid for itselfin inspiration,in engineering, achievementand, I think, in inspiring young scientists and engineers14 times over.So exploration can pay for itself.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:科学性探索如何呢？鼓励创新呢？这张照片看上去什么也没有。它是一张氢气的光谱图。在19世纪80年代，90年代时，许多科学家和观察员检查原子释放出来的光，他们就看见了像这张一样的奇怪图片。把它透过棱镜时你看见的是，你加热氢气，它并不会发出白色的光，它只发出特别的颜色的光，一道红的，一道浅蓝的，一些深蓝色的。这就使得人们了解原子的结构因为按照这样解释原子是周围带有电子的单一核心。电子只在特定的位置。他们跳到别的地方，就会回到原地，他们发出特定颜色的光。
en:What about scientific discovery?What about driving innovation?Well, this looks like a picture of virtually nothing.What it is, is a picture of the spectrumof hydrogen.See, back in the 1880s, 1890s,many scientists, many observers,looked at the light given off from atoms.And they saw strange pictures like this.What you&#39;re seeing when you put it through a prismis that you heat hydrogen up and it doesn&#39;t just glowlike a white light,it just emits light at particular colors,a red one, a light blue one, some dark blue ones.Now that led to an understanding of atomic structurebecause the way that&#39;s explainedis atoms are a single nucleuswith electrons going around them.And the electrons can only be in particular places.And when they jump up to the next place they can be,and fall back down again,they emit light at particular colors.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:当你加热原子时，只会发出特定颜色的光，原子的这一特性，成为导向量子理论，原子结构理论发展的一个关键因素。我想要展示这张了不起的图片。这是太阳的光谱图。这张照片显示的是，太阳大气层的原子吸收光。他们只吸收特定颜色的光而电子跳起来又落回去，跳起来又落回去。但看看光谱图里黑线的数量。氦元素是在研究太阳光时发现的。因为一些那样的黑线，与未知元素相对应。这就是为什么氦元素叫做氦元素。它被叫做“赫利俄斯”——来自太阳的赫利俄斯。
en:And so the fact that atoms, when you heat them up,only emit light at very specific colors,was one of the key driversthat led to the development of the quantum theory,the theory of the structure of atoms.I just wanted to show this picture because this is remarkable.This is actually a picture of the spectrum of the Sun.And now, this is a picture of atoms in the Sun&#39;s atmosphereabsorbing light.And again, they only absorb light at particular colorswhen electrons jump up and fall down,jump up and fall down.But look at the number of black lines in that spectrum.And the element heliumwas discovered just by staring at the light from the Sunbecause some of those black lines were foundthat corresponded to no known element.And that&#39;s why helium&#39;s called helium.It&#39;s called &quot;helios&quot; — helios from the Sun.
时间： 8:37
zh-cn:这听起来很深奥，它也确实是很深奥的学问，但是量子理论很快引导人们理解物质里电子的行为，比如说硅原子。硅原子的行为，以及你能用它制作晶体管，是纯粹的量子现象。所以如果没有好奇心引导的对原子结构的了解——这使得人们有了更加深奥的理论，量子力学，我们就没有晶体管，没有硅芯片，没有我们现代经济赖以生存的根基。
en:Now, that sounds esoteric,and indeed it was an esoteric pursuit,but the quantum theory quickly ledto an understanding of the behaviors of electrons in materialslike silicon, for example.The way that silicon behaves,the fact that you can build transistors,is a purely quantum phenomenon.So without that curiosity-drivenunderstanding of the structure of atoms,which led to this rather esoteric theory, quantum mechanics,then we wouldn&#39;t have transistors, we wouldn&#39;t have silicon chips,we wouldn&#39;t have pretty much the basisof our modern economy.
时间： 9:10
zh-cn:这个故事有了个奇妙的转折。在“太阳系的奇观”中，我们一直强调物理学的定理是普遍存在的。物理学和你在地球上得到的对于自然界的认知有很神奇的特性，就是你可以把它应用到行星上，甚至是最遥远的恒星和星系上。对量子力学最令人震惊的预测是只要看看原子的结构——描述过晶体管的同样理论——宇宙中，没有一颗已死亡的恒星的质量比太阳大，准确来说，大1.4倍。这是恒星质量的最大限度。你可以在实验室里拿张纸算出来，或者用个望远镜，对着天空你就会发现，没有质量超过太阳1.4倍的死亡恒星。这是个了不起的预测。
en:There&#39;s one more, I think, wonderful twist to that tale.In &quot;Wonders of the Solar System,&quot;we kept emphasizing the laws of physics are universal.It&#39;s one of the most incredible things about the physicsand the understanding of nature that you get on Earth,is you can transport it, not only to the planets,but to the most distant stars and galaxies.And one of the astonishing predictionsof quantum mechanics,just by looking at the structure of atoms —the same theory that describes transistors —is that there can be no stars in the universethat have reached the end of their lifethat are bigger than, quite specifically, 1.4 times the mass of the Sun.That&#39;s a limit imposed on the mass of stars.You can work it out on a piece of paper in a laboratory,get a telescope, swing it to the sky,and you find that there are no dead starsbigger than 1.4 times the mass of the Sun.That&#39;s quite an incredible prediction.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:如果有颗恒星达到了最大质量限度的边缘呢？这是它的照片。这是一个星系的照片，一个普通的星系。其中有1千亿像太阳一样的恒星。它只是宇宙中数十亿星系中的一个。星系的核心里有十亿颗恒星，因此它光芒耀眼。这是我们的一个隔壁星系，离我们大概5千万光年远。但那颗明亮的星星其实是星系中的一员。这颗星星也离我们5千万光年远。它是星系的一部分，而它的光芒同有着十亿颗太阳的星系中心一样明亮耀眼。这就是Ia型超新星爆炸。这是难以置信的现象，因为这颗星星在那里。它被成为白矮星。它的质量是太阳的1.3倍。它有颗联星，围绕它运转，一颗大恒星，一颗大的气体球。于是，它从那颗联星上吸收气体，直到它达到钱德拉塞卡极限，接着它就会爆炸。爆炸时，它会发出同十亿个太阳一样强烈的光光会维持两个星期，同时它不仅会释放出能量，而且会释放大量的化学元素到宇宙空间。事实上，这颗就是白矮星。
en:What happens when you have a star that&#39;s right on the edge of that mass?Well, this is a picture of it.This is the picture of a galaxy, a common &quot;our garden&quot; galaxywith, what, 100 billionstars like our Sun in it.It&#39;s just one of billions of galaxies in the universe.There are a billion stars in the galactic core,which is why it&#39;s shining out so brightly.This is about 50 million light years away,so one of our neighboring galaxies.But that bright star thereis actually one of the stars in the galaxy.So that star is also50 million light years away.It&#39;s part of that galaxy, and it&#39;s shining as brightlyas the center of the galaxywith a billion suns in it.That&#39;s a Type Ia supernova explosion.Now that&#39;s an incredible phenomena,because it&#39;s a star that sits there.It&#39;s called a carbon-oxygen dwarf.It sits there about, say, 1.3 times the mass of the Sun.And it has a binary companion that goes around it,so a big star, a big ball of gas.And what it does is it sucks gasoff its companion star,until it gets to this limit called the Chandrasekhar limit,and then it explodes.And it explodes, and it shines as brightlyas a billion suns for about two weeks,and releases, not only energy,but a huge amount of chemical elements into the universe.In fact, that one is a carbon-oxygen dwarf.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:大爆炸时，宇宙里没有碳元素和氧元素。第一代恒星期间，宇宙里没有碳元素和氧元素。它们在那样的恒星里面，封存起来，再通过那样的爆炸，返回到宇宙空间，重新凝聚成行星，恒星，新的太阳系统还有，像我们一样的人类。我想，这是很好的展示了物理学定理的力量，美，和普遍性，因为我们理解这个过程，因为我们知道地球上原子的结构。
en:Now, there was no carbon and oxygenin the universe at the Big Bang.And there was no carbon and oxygen in the universethroughout the first generation of stars.It was made in stars like that,locked away and then returned to the universein explosions like thatin order to recondense into planets,stars, new solar systemsand, indeed, people like us.I think that&#39;s a remarkable demonstration of the powerand beauty and universality of the laws of physics,because we understand that process,because we understandthe structure of atoms here on Earth.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:这是我找到的一段美丽的引文——出自于亚历山大·弗莱明，我们讲的是机缘巧合。“1928年9月28日的黎明，我刚醒来，我自然没有打算通过发现世界上第一个抗生素来改革整个医术界。”原子世界的探索者们并没有打算发明晶体管。他们也没有打算描述超新星爆炸的机制，这一机制最终告诉我们构建生命的基石是在宇宙里合成的。我认为科学可以——机遇偶然很重要。科学很美丽，可以揭露一些令人吃惊的事物。我想，它也可以，最终向我们揭露关于我们在宇宙中的位置，还有我们的家园的真正价值这样的终极问题。
en:This is a beautiful quote that I found —we&#39;re talking about serendipity there — from Alexander Fleming:&quot;When I woke up just after dawnon September 28, 1928,I certainly didn&#39;t plan to revolutionize all medicineby discovering the world&#39;s first antibiotic.&quot;Now, the explorers of the world of the atomdid not intend to invent the transistor.And they certainly didn&#39;t intend todescribe the mechanics of supernova explosions,which eventually told us wherethe building blocks of lifewere synthesized in the universe.So, I think science can be —serendipity is important.It can be beautiful. It can reveal quite astonishing things.It can also, I think, finallyreveal the most profoundideas to usabout our place in the universeand really the value of our home planet.
时间：12:42
zh-cn:这是一张地球的壮观照片。它看起来不像是地球。看上去像土星，因为它是由卡西尼号太空探测器拍摄的。但这是张很著名的照片，不是因为土星环的美丽和壮观，而是因为悬挂在光环之下的那一个小小的微弱的圆点。如果我把那里放大，你就会看见。它看起来像个卫星，但事实上，那是地球。那是土星的框架下拍摄到的地球。那是7亿5千万英里远之外看到的我们的地球。我认为地球有个奇怪的属性，你离它越远，它看上去越漂亮。
en:This is a spectacular picture of our home planet.Now, it doesn&#39;t look like our home planet.It looks like Saturn because, of course, it is.It was taken by the Cassini space probe.But it&#39;s a famous picture, not because ofthe beauty and majesty of Saturn&#39;s rings,but actually because of a tiny, faint blobjust hanging underneath one of the rings.And if I blow it up there, you see it.It looks like a moon,but in fact, it&#39;s a picture of Earth.It was a picture of Earth captured in that frame of Saturn.That&#39;s our planet from 750 million miles away.I think the Earth has got a strange propertythat the farther away you get from it,the more beautiful it seems.
时间：13:21
zh-cn:不过，这还不是最远或者最著名的地球照片。它是由这个东西拍摄的，叫做旅行家飞船。这是我站在它前面，作为尺寸对比。旅行家号是个很小的机器。现在它离地球有100亿千里远，用那个卫星盘以20瓦特的功率传输数据，我们还在和它保持联系。它拜访了木星，土星，天王星和海王星。它拜访完这四个行星之后，我的偶像之一，卡尔 萨根，有了个很棒的主意把旅行家号调头拍下它拜访过的星球的照片。它拍了这张地球的照片。这上面很难看见地球，这张照片被称为“微弱蓝点”，但地球悬挂在这道光线之中。这是40亿英里远看到的地球。
en:But that is not the most distant or most famous picture of our planet.It was taken by this thing, which is called the Voyager spacecraft.And that&#39;s a picture of me in front of it for scale.The Voyager is a tiny machine.It&#39;s currently 10 billion miles away from Earth,transmitting with that dish, with the power of 20 watts,and we&#39;re still in contact with it.But it visited Jupiter, Saturn,Uranus and Neptune.And after it visited all four of those planets,Carl Sagan, who&#39;s one of my great heroes,had the wonderful ideaof turning Voyager aroundand taking a picture of every planet it had visited.And it took this picture of Earth.Now it&#39;s very hard to see the Earth there, it&#39;s called the &quot;Pale Blue Dot&quot; picture,but Earth is suspended in that red shaft of light.That&#39;s Earth from four billion miles away.
时间：14:07
zh-cn:我想读一段萨根写的文字，作为结束，因为我无法说出像他那样优美的文字，来形容在他拍摄的那张照片里他所看见的情形。他说，“再看一下这个点吧。它在那里。那就是我们的家，我们的一切。在它上面，有你爱的每个人、你认识的每个人、你听说过的每个人。历史上的每一个人，都在它上面度过了自己的一生。所有我们的欢乐和痛苦，所有言之凿凿的宗教、意识形态和经济原理，所有猎人和强盗，所有英雄和懦夫，所有文明的创造者和毁灭者，所有的皇帝和农夫，所有热恋中的青年情侣，所有的父母、满怀希望的孩子、发明者和探索者，所有精神导师，所有腐败的政治家，所有“超级明星”，所有“最高领导人”，所有圣徒和罪人，从人类这个种族存在的第一天起都生活在这颗遥远的尘埃上，悬浮在太阳光中。有人说，天文学会让人谦卑，塑造人的性格。没有什么东西，比这张从远处拍摄的地球的图片更能够说明人类自负的愚昧徒劳。对我而言，它强调了我们有责任更好地相互交往，并且要保护和珍惜这个微弱蓝点，这是我们迄今所知的唯一家园。”
en:And I&#39;d like to read you whatSagan wrote about it, just to finish,because I cannot say words as beautiful as thisto describe what he sawin that picture that he had taken.He said, &quot;Consider again that dot.That&#39;s here. That&#39;s home. That&#39;s us.On it, everyone you love,everyone you know, everyone you&#39;ve ever heard of,every human being who ever waslived out their lives.The aggregates of joy and sufferingthousands of confident religions,ideologies and economic doctrines,every hunter and forager, every hero and coward,every creator and destroyer of civilization,every king and peasant, every young couple in love,every mother and father, hopeful child,inventor and explorer,every teacher of morals, every corrupt politician,every superstar, every supreme leader,every saint and sinner in the history of our species,lived there, on a mote of dust,suspended in a sunbeam.It&#39;s been said that astronomy&#39;s a humblingand character-building experience.There is perhaps no better demonstrationof the folly of human conceitsthan this distant image of our tiny world.To me, it underscores our responsibilityto deal more kindly with one anotherand to preserve and cherish the pale blue dot,the only home we&#39;ve ever known.&quot;
时间：15:25
zh-cn:多么优美的文字，描述了科学与探索的力量。一直有人，而且会永远有人认为，关于宇宙，我们知道得够多了。如果在20世纪20年代做出这样的结论，人们就不会发现青霉素。如果是在19世纪90年代，人们就不会发明晶体管。在现在经济困难的时期有人这样说了，是的，我们知道的足够多了。我们不需要继续探索宇宙了。
en:Beautiful words aboutthe power of science and exploration.The argument has always been made, and it will always be made,that we know enough about the universe.You could have made it in the 1920s; you wouldn&#39;t have had penicillin.You could have made it in the 1890s; you wouldn&#39;t have the transistor.And it&#39;s made today in these difficult economic times.Surely, we know enough.We don&#39;t need to discover anything else about our universe.
时间：15:46
zh-cn:让我用一个人的话做最后的总结，汉弗里·戴维，他很快成为了我的英雄，他在19世纪初做了科学研究。他那时一直被人瞧不起。我们都知道19世纪初时的事。拼命开发，拼命建筑。他说，“对人类思想进步造成致命危害的是认为我们现在对科学的认知达到极致了，我们彻底成功了，自然界再也没有神秘之处了，再也没有新的世界让我们去征服了。“
en:Let me leave the last words to someonewho&#39;s rapidly becoming a hero of mine,Humphrey Davy, who did his science at the turn of the 19th century.He was clearly under assault all the time.&quot;We know enough at the turn of the 19th century.Just exploit it; just build things.&quot;He said this, he said, &quot;Nothing is more fatalto the progress of the human mindthan to presume that our views of scienceare ultimate,that our triumphs are complete,that there are no mysteries in nature,and that there are no new worlds to conquer.&quot;
时间：16:15
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：16:17
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
