时间： 0:11
zh-cn:几个月以前，诺贝尔物理学奖颁发给两个天文学家团队，他们的发现被誉为史上最重要的天文观测之一。今天呢，在简要描述他们的发现之后，我会告诉你一个颇有争议的理论框架用于解释他们的发现，这种框架大大超越了我们所认知的地球，银河系和其他遥远星系，我们可能会发现我们的宇宙不是唯一的宇宙，相反只是一个庞大复合宇宙的一部分，我们称之为多元宇宙。
en:A few months agothe Nobel Prize in physicswas awarded to two teams of astronomersfor a discovery that has been hailedas one of the most importantastronomical observations ever.And today, after briefly describing what they found,I&#39;m going to tell you about a highly controversial frameworkfor explaining their discovery,namely the possibilitythat way beyond the Earth,the Milky Way and other distant galaxies,we may find that our universeis not the only universe,but is insteadpart of a vast complex of universesthat we call the multiverse.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:多元宇宙是个很怪的想法。我是说，大部分人从出生就被教育相信“宇宙”这个词包含一切。我是说我们中的绝大多数（都被从小教导有关“一元宇宙”的概念）就像我四岁大的女儿从一出生就在听我讲这些想法（多元宇宙）一样。去年，我抱着她，对她说，“索非亚，我爱你胜过宇宙的一切。”她转过来对我说，“爸爸，是宇宙还是多元宇宙？”（笑）
en:Now the idea of a multiverse is a strange one.I mean, most of us were raised to believethat the word &quot;universe&quot; means everything.And I say most of us with forethought,as my four-year-old daughter has heard me speak of these ideas since she was born.And last year I was holding herand I said, &quot;Sophia,I love you more than anything in the universe.&quot;And she turned to me and said, &quot;Daddy,universe or multiverse?&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:但是除了这样一个不同寻常的教育的例子，我们总是很难让人们（从小接受了一元宇宙观点的人）去想象哪些其他与我们的宇宙所分离的国度（宇宙），而其中的大部分又拥有完全不同于我们所处宇宙的特征，而这些宇宙可以被称作他们自己的宇宙。尽管这个想法是个推理，我想让你相信我们有理由把它当回事，因为它有可能是正确的。我会分三部分来讲多元宇宙的故事。第一部分，我会描述这些获诺贝尔奖的结果，并且强调这些成绩揭示的一个意义深远的奥秘。第二部分，我会解开这个奥秘。它基于一种叫“弦理论”的方法，通过它我们把多元宇宙引入了这个故事。最后第三部分，我将讲述一个宇宙理论叫暴涨，通过这个你就能把整个故事完整起来。
en:But barring such an anomalous upbringing,it is strange to imagineother realms separate from ours,most with fundamentally different features,that would rightly be called universes of their own.And yet,speculative though the idea surely is,I aim to convince youthat there&#39;s reason for taking it seriously,as it just might be right.I&#39;m going to tell the story of the multiverse in three parts.In part one,I&#39;m going to describe those Nobel Prize-winning resultsand to highlight a profound mysterywhich those results revealed.In part two,I&#39;ll offer a solution to that mystery.It&#39;s based on an approach called string theory,and that&#39;s where the idea of the multiversewill come into the story.Finally, in part three,I&#39;m going to describe a cosmological theorycalled inflation,which will pull all the pieces of the story together.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:好吧，故事的第一部分回到1929年，当伟大的天文学家爱德温•哈勃意识到，遥远的星系都匆匆离我们而去建立属于它自身的空间这个空间在不断地扩展。现在我们要讨论的问题开始富有革命性了。普遍的观点是在最大的尺度下宇宙是静态的。但即便如此，有一件事大家都是确定的，就是扩张必须放缓。就像万有引力减慢了抛向空中的苹果上升的速度，每个星系对其他星系的万有引力必须减缓空间的扩展。
en:Okay, part one starts back in 1929when the great astronomer Edwin Hubblerealized that the distant galaxieswere all rushing away from us,establishing that space itself is stretching,it&#39;s expanding.Now this was revolutionary.The prevailing wisdom was that on the largest of scalesthe universe was static.But even so,there was one thing that everyone was certain of:The expansion must be slowing down.That, much as the gravitational pull of the Earthslows the ascent of an apple tossed upward,the gravitational pullof each galaxy on every othermust be slowingthe expansion of space.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:现在让我们快进到二十世纪90年代，我开始提到的那两个天文学家小组受到这个推理的启发来测量这种扩张放缓的速率。他们辛勤地观察了为数众多的遥远星系，并据此画出了膨胀率随时间变化的图表。令人惊讶的是，他们发现扩张并没有减速。相反速度在加快，越来越快。就像抛一个苹果，它快速地上升。如果你看到一个苹果这样的话，你一定想知道为什么。是一种什么力量推动它呢？
en:Now let&#39;s fast-forward to the 1990swhen those two teams of astronomersI mentioned at the outsetwere inspired by this reasoningto measure the rateat which the expansion has been slowing.And they did thisby painstaking observationsof numerous distant galaxies,allowing them to charthow the expansion rate has changed over time.Here&#39;s the surprise:They found that the expansion is not slowing down.Instead they found that it&#39;s speeding up,going faster and faster.That&#39;s like tossing an apple upwardand it goes up faster and faster.Now if you saw an apple do that,you&#39;d want to know why.What&#39;s pushing on it?
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:同样，天文学家的结果肯定配得诺贝尔奖，但他们提了一个类似的问题。是什么力量驱动所有的星系不断加速地远离其它的呢？最有希望的答案还是来自爱因斯坦的老观点。你看，我们都习惯于认为，地心引力这种力量就做一件事，就是把东西拉在一起。但在爱因斯坦的引力理论中，他的广义相对论，引力也可以把东西推开的。
en:Similarly, the astronomers&#39; resultsare surely well-deserving of the Nobel Prize,but they raised an analogous question.What force is driving all galaxiesto rush away from every otherat an ever-quickening speed?Well the most promising answercomes from an old idea of Einstein&#39;s.You see, we are all used to gravitybeing a force that does one thing,pulls objects together.But in Einstein&#39;s theory of gravity,his general theory of relativity,gravity can also push things apart.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:怎么说呢？根据爱因斯坦的数学，如果空间是被无形的能量均匀地充满，就像一种统一，无形的雾，这种雾所产生的重力会是排斥重力，这正是我们需要解释的观测。因为空间中的这种无形能量的排斥重力—我们把它叫做暗能量，但这里我把它用白色烟雾表示是为了便于看到—它的排斥重力会导致每个星系互相推斥，驱使扩张加快而不是减缓。这个解释代表着很大的进步。
en:How? Well according to Einstein&#39;s math,if space is uniformly filledwith an invisible energy,sort of like a uniform, invisible mist,then the gravity generated by that mistwould be repulsive,repulsive gravity,which is just what we need to explain the observations.Because the repulsive gravityof an invisible energy in space —we now call it dark energy,but I&#39;ve made it smokey white here so you can see it —its repulsive gravitywould cause each galaxy to push against every other,driving expansion to speed up,not slow down.And this explanationrepresents great progress.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:我答应过你这是第一部分的一个谜。这个就是。在天文学家计算出必须注入多少暗能量到空间去证明宇宙的加速时，看看他们发现了什么。这是个小数目。用相关的单位来表现，它非常小。谜团是去解释这个奇特的数字。我们希望这一数字可能摆脱物理定律，但到目前为止还没有人找到一个方法。
en:But I promised you a mysteryhere in part one.Here it is.When the astronomers worked outhow much of this dark energymust be infusing spaceto account for the cosmic speed up,look at what they found.This number is small.Expressed in the relevant unit,it is spectacularly small.And the mystery is to explain this peculiar number.We want this numberto emerge from the laws of physics,but so far no one has found a way to do that.
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:你现在可能想知道，你应该担忧吗？也许解释这个数字只是个技术问题，一个专家感兴趣的技术细节，根别人没什么关系。这的确是一个技术上的细节，但有些细节至关重大。一些细节给未知的现实领域提供窗口，这个奇特的数字可能只有这个用途，至今为止作为唯一方法取得了进展，去解释它调用奇特宇宙的可能性—这个想法自然地脱离弦理论，带我进入第二部分：弦理论。
en:Now you might wonder,should you care?Maybe explaining this numberis just a technical issue,a technical detail of interest to experts,but of no relevance to anybody else.Well it surely is a technical detail,but some details really matter.Some details providewindows into uncharted realms of reality,and this peculiar number may be doing just that,as the only approach that&#39;s so far made headway to explain itinvokes the possibility of other universes —an idea that naturally emerges from string theory,which takes me to part two: string theory.
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:先把暗能量的谜团放在脑后，我继续讲有关弦理论的三个关键的事情。第一个，是什么呢？那是实践爱因斯坦的物理统一理论的梦想的一种途径，一个总体框架能够描述宇宙所有的力量在起作用。而弦理论的中心思想非常简单。它说，如果你非常细致地检查任何一样物质。起初你会发现分子，然后你会发现原子和亚原子粒子。但这个理论说，如果你能够探测到更小的，比我们现有技术能做到的更小的，你会在这些粒子里找到别的东西—一个小小的能量震动纤维，一个小小的震动弦。就像小提琴上的弦一样，它们通过不同的震动来产生不同的音符。这些小小的基本的弦，当他们以不同的模式震动时，它们产生不同种类的粒子—所以，电子，夸克，中微子，光子，所有的粒子会合并成一个单一的框架，它们会通过震动的弦而出现。那是个令人信服的场面，一种宇宙交响乐，我们看到的从周围世界的音乐而展现的丰富，这些小小的弦也能演奏出。
en:So hold the mystery of the dark energyin the back of your mindas I now go on to tell youthree key things about string theory.First off, what is it?Well it&#39;s an approach to realize Einstein&#39;s dreamof a unified theory of physics,a single overarching frameworkthat would be able to describeall the forces at work in the universe.And the central idea of string theoryis quite straightforward.It says that if you examineany piece of matter ever more finely,at first you&#39;ll find moleculesand then you&#39;ll find atoms and subatomic particles.But the theory says that if you could probe smaller,much smaller than we can with existing technology,you&#39;d find something else inside these particles —a little tiny vibrating filament of energy,a little tiny vibrating string.And just like the strings on a violin,they can vibrate in different patternsproducing different musical notes.These little fundamental strings,when they vibrate in different patterns,they produce different kinds of particles —so electrons, quarks, neutrinos, photons,all other particleswould be united into a single framework,as they would all arise from vibrating strings.It&#39;s a compelling picture,a kind of cosmic symphony,where all the richnessthat we see in the world around usemerges from the musicthat these little, tiny strings can play.
时间： 7:41
zh-cn:但这种优雅的统一是有代价的，因为多年的研究表明弦理论的数学也不是行得通的。它内部不一致，除非我们考虑完全陌生的事—即额外纬度空间。我们都知道通常的三维空间。你可以用高度，宽度和深度来考虑。但弦理论认为，在极其小的尺度下，在这么小的尺寸下还有附加的维度，因为太小我们还探测不出。但即使这些维度是隐藏的，它们对一些东西的影响我们能够观察到，因为额外维度的形状限制着弦的震动。在弦理论中，振动决定一切。所以呢，粒子的质量，力量的强度，最重要的，暗能量的总量会取决于额外维度的形状。如果我们了解额外维度的形状，我们就能计算出这些特征，计算出暗能量的总量。
en:But there&#39;s a costto this elegant unification,because years of researchhave shown that the math of string theory doesn&#39;t quite work.It has internal inconsistencies,unless we allowfor something wholly unfamiliar —extra dimensions of space.That is, we all know about the usual three dimensions of space.And you can think about thoseas height, width and depth.But string theory says that, on fantastically small scales,there are additional dimensionscrumpled to a tiny size so smallthat we have not detected them.But even though the dimensions are hidden,they would have an impact on things that we can observebecause the shape of the extra dimensionsconstrains how the strings can vibrate.And in string theory,vibration determines everything.So particle masses, the strengths of forces,and most importantly, the amount of dark energywould be determinedby the shape of the extra dimensions.So if we knew the shape of the extra dimensions,we should be able to calculate these features,calculate the amount of dark energy.
时间： 8:51
zh-cn:目前的挑战是我们不知道额外维度的形状。我们有的是通过数学算出的一些候选形状。当这些想法首次推出的时候，只有5个候补形状，你可以想象到一个一个分析它们来决定哪一个符合我们观察的物理特征。可是随着时间的迁移，研究人员发现了更多的候选形状。从起初的5个到几百个，最后几千个—数目很多但还管得过来，去分析这些的工作就交给刚毕业的学生了。但是这个数目单继续增加到了几百万，到今天有数十亿了。候选形状的清单也飙升到10至500个。
en:The challengeis we don&#39;t knowthe shape of the extra dimensions.All we haveis a list of candidate shapesallowed by the math.Now when these ideas were first developed,there were only about five different candidate shapes,so you can imagineanalyzing them one-by-oneto determine if any yieldthe physical features we observe.But over time the list grewas researchers found other candidate shapes.From five, the number grew into the hundreds and then the thousands —A large, but still manageable, collection to analyze,since after all,graduate students need something to do.But then the list continued to growinto the millions and the billions, until today.The list of candidate shapeshas soared to about 10 to the 500.
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:那，怎么办呢？有些研究人员失去信心，结论是额外维度有这么多的候选形状，每一个都有不同的物理特征，弦理论永远不会做出确定的，可检验的预测。但是另一些从另一个角度考虑，把我们带到多元宇宙的可能性。想法是这样的。也许这些性状之间是互相平等的。每一个都很真实，就是说有很多的宇宙，每个对额外维度都有不同的形状。这种激进的建议对这个谜团有着深刻的影响：诺贝尔得奖结果揭示了暗能量的总量。
en:So, what to do?Well some researchers lost heart,concluding that was so many candidate shapes for the extra dimensions,each giving rise to different physical features,string theory would never makedefinitive, testable predictions.But others turned this issue on its head,taking us to the possibility of a multiverse.Here&#39;s the idea.Maybe each of these shapes is on an equal footing with every other.Each is as real as every other,in the sensethat there are many universes,each with a different shape, for the extra dimensions.And this radical proposalhas a profound impact on this mystery:the amount of dark energy revealed by the Nobel Prize-winning results.
时间：10:28
zh-cn:因为你看，如果有很多的其他宇宙，而这些宇宙每个都有不同的额外维度形状，那么每个宇宙的物理特征将会不同，特别是，每个宇宙的暗能量将会不同。也就意味着，我们现在测量到的暗能量总量的解释谜呢，将会是 一个完全不同的角色。在这种背景下，物理定律不能解释暗能量的一个数，因为不知一个数，有很多数。也意味着，我们一直问错了问题。应该问的正确问题是，为什么我们人类在一个宇宙中测量一种特定量的暗能量，而不是在另外的其他外围宇宙呢？
en:Because you see,if there are other universes,and if those universeseach have, say, a different shape for the extra dimensions,then the physical features of each universe will be different,and in particular,the amount of dark energy in each universewill be different.Which means that the mysteryof explaining the amount of dark energy we&#39;ve now measuredwould take on a wholly different character.In this context,the laws of physics can&#39;t explain one number for the dark energybecause there isn&#39;t just one number,there are many numbers.Which meanswe have been asking the wrong question.It&#39;s that the right question to ask is,why do we humans find ourselves in a universewith a particular amount of dark energy we&#39;ve measuredinstead of any of the other possibilitiesthat are out there?
时间：11:22
zh-cn:我们在这个问题上能取得进展。因为那些宇宙有着比我们的更多的暗能量，当物质要聚成星系时，暗能量的排斥力太强，把物质快吹散，星系就无法形成。这些宇宙中的暗能量较少，它们非常快地崩溃后回来，也形成不了星系。没有星系，就没有星星，没有行星，所以在别的宇宙中没法有像我们这样的生命存在。
en:And that&#39;s a question on which we can make headway.Because those universesthat have much more dark energy than ours,whenever matter tries to clump into galaxies,the repulsive push of the dark energy is so strongthat it blows the clump apartand galaxies don&#39;t form.And in those universes that have much less dark energy,well they collapse back on themselves so quicklythat, again, galaxies don&#39;t form.And without galaxies, there are no stars, no planetsand no chancefor our form of lifeto exist in those other universes.
时间：11:56
zh-cn:我们发现我们自己存在于一个我们简单测量的有一个特别数量的暗能量的宇宙中，只因为我们的宇宙有合适的条件供我们生命的存在。就是那个。谜团破解了，多元宇宙被发现。有些人对这个解释不满意。我们习惯于物理学给我们观察的特征的明确解释。但问题是，如果你观察的特征能够并且确实承担现实中的不同价值，那么对一种特定值用一种解释就会简单地误导人。
en:So we find ourselves in a universewith the particular amount of dark energy we&#39;ve measuredsimply because our universe has conditionshospitable to our form of life.And that would be that.Mystery solved,multiverse found.Now some find this explanation unsatisfying.We&#39;re used to physicsgiving us definitive explanations for the features we observe.But the point is,if the feature you&#39;re observingcan and does take ona wide variety of different valuesacross the wider landscape of reality,then thinking one explanationfor a particular valueis simply misguided.
时间：12:43
zh-cn:一个早期的例子来自于伟大的天文学家约翰 开普勒，他很着迷于研究不同的数字—为什么太阳离地球9千3百万英里。他花了几十年的时间试图解释这个数字，但从未成功，我们知道为什么。开普勒问错了问题。
en:An early examplecomes from the great astronomer Johannes Keplerwho was obsessed with understandinga different number —why the Sun is 93 million miles away from the Earth.And he worked for decades trying to explain this number,but he never succeeded, and we know why.Kepler was askingthe wrong question.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:现在我们知道有许多行星距离它们的宿主恒星有不同的距离。单单希望物理定律能解释一个特殊的数据，9千3百万，是执迷不悟。正确的问题应该是，为什么我们人类发现我们在一个行星上的距离是特定的，而不是别的可能呢？同样，这个问题我们能回答。那些行星更接近于一颗星就像太阳一样热，以至像我们这样的生命无法存在。而那些离这个星太远的行星，因为太冷，同样也没法有我们这样的生命。所以，我们发现我们在这颗行星的特定距离只是因为它的条件符合我们生命的存在。讲到行星和它们的距离时，这显然是合理的推理。关键是，讲到宇宙和他们所含的暗能量时，它也可能是合适的推理。
en:We now know that there are many planetsat a wide variety of different distances from their host stars.So hoping that the laws of physicswill explain one particular number, 93 million miles,well that is simply wrongheaded.Instead the right question to ask is,why do we humans find ourselves on a planetat this particular distance,instead of any of the other possibilities?And again, that&#39;s a question we can answer.Those planets which are much closer to a star like the Sunwould be so hotthat our form of life wouldn&#39;t exist.And those planets that are much farther away from the star,well they&#39;re so coldthat, again, our form of life would not take hold.So we find ourselveson a planet at this particular distancesimply because it yields conditionsvital to our form of life.And when it comes to planets and their distances,this clearly is the right kind of reasoning.The point is,when it comes to universes and the dark energy that they contain,it may also be the right kind of reasoning.
时间：14:13
zh-cn:一个重要的区别是，我们知道外边还有很多别的行星，但到目前为止，我只是推测可能会有其他的宇宙。把这些合起来，我们需要一个机制，实际上可以生成其它宇宙。这样我就来到最后一部分，第三部分。因为宇宙学家们在试图了解大爆炸时发现了这个机制。你看，但我们说起大爆炸时，我们常常有一个宇宙爆炸的图画，这个爆炸创造了我们的宇宙，且把空间向外扩。
en:One key difference, of course,is we know that there are other planets out there,but so far I&#39;ve only speculated on the possibilitythat there might be other universes.So to pull it all together,we need a mechanismthat can actually generate other universes.And that takes me to my final part, part three.Because such a mechanism has been foundby cosmologists trying to understand the Big Bang.You see, when we speak of the Big Bang,we often have an imageof a kind of cosmic explosionthat created our universeand set space rushing outward.
时间：14:50
zh-cn:但有一个小秘密。大爆炸留下了很重要的就是，爆炸。它告诉我们宇宙在爆炸后时如何进化，但没有给我们提供爆炸本身的力量。最终，这个差距被一个增强版的大爆炸理论填补上了它被称为暴胀宇宙学，找到了一种特殊的燃料，会自然产生向往冲的空间。燃料基于一种叫做量子场的东西，但对我们有关的唯一细节是这种燃料被证明是如此高效，它几乎不可能完全用尽，这就意味着在暴胀理论中，大爆炸出现在我们宇宙不是一次性的事件。相反，燃料不仅产生了我们的大爆炸，它也产生了无数的别的爆炸，每个形成它自己的宇宙，我们的宇宙变成大宇宙泡泡浴里的一个泡泡。
en:But there&#39;s a little secret.The Big Bang leaves out something pretty important,the Bang.It tells us how the universe evolved after the Bang,but gives us no insightinto what would have powered the Bang itself.And this gap was finally filledby an enhanced version of the Big Bang theory.It&#39;s called inflationary cosmology,which identified a particular kind of fuelthat would naturally generatean outward rush of space.The fuel is based on something called a quantum field,but the only detail that matters for usis that this fuel proves to be so efficientthat it&#39;s virtually impossibleto use it all up,which means in the inflationary theory,the Big Bang giving rise to our universeis likely not a one-time event.Instead the fuel not only generated our Big Bang,but it would also generate countless other Big Bangs,each giving rise to its own separate universewith our universe becoming but one bubblein a grand cosmic bubble bath of universes.
时间：15:59
zh-cn:现在，当我们把这融合到弦理论，我们就看到了这张图片。这些宇宙中的每一个都有额外维度。额外维度有不同的形状。不同的形状产生不同的物理特征。我们发现我们自己在一个而不是另一个宇宙中单单因为我们的宇宙的物理特征，譬如暗能量的总量正好适合我们生命的存在。这是具有吸引力但对更广阔宇宙的又极有争议的图片，尖端的观察与理论让我们去更严肃地思考。
en:And now, when we meld this with string theory,here&#39;s the picture we&#39;re led to.Each of these universes has extra dimensions.The extra dimensions take on a wide variety of different shapes.The different shapes yield different physical features.And we find ourselves in one universe instead of anothersimply because it&#39;s only in our universethat the physical features, like the amount of dark energy,are right for our form of life to take hold.And this is the compelling but highly controversial pictureof the wider cosmosthat cutting-edge observation and theoryhave now led us to seriously consider.
时间：16:35
zh-cn:一个悬而未决的问题，当然是，我们能否确认其他宇宙的存在？让我来描述一种可能有一天会发生的方法。通胀理论已经有强大的观测支持。因为这个理论预言大爆炸将是如此强烈以至于空间快速扩张，微小的量子从微观世界延伸到宏观世界，产生一种独特的指纹，一种既有微热和微冷的斑点模式已经被功能强大的望远镜观察到了。讲的远点，如果有其他的宇宙，这个理论预测这些宇宙可能互相碰撞。如果我们的宇宙被别的宇宙撞上了，碰撞会在空间里产生额外的微妙的温度变化，我们可能有一天能探测到。正像这张奇特的照片，有一天也许会基于观测，建立其它宇宙的存在。
en:One big remaining question, of course, is,could we ever confirmthe existence of other universes?Well let me describeone way that might one day happen.The inflationary theoryalready has strong observational support.Because the theory predictsthat the Big Bang would have been so intensethat as space rapidly expanded,tiny quantum jitters from the micro worldwould have been stretched out to the macro world,yielding a distinctive fingerprint,a pattern of slightly hotter spots and slightly colder spots,across space,which powerful telescopes have now observed.Going further, if there are other universes,the theory predicts that every so oftenthose universes can collide.And if our universe got hit by another,that collisionwould generate an additional subtle patternof temperature variations across spacethat we might one daybe able to detect.And so exotic as this picture is,it may one day be groundedin observations,establishing the existence of other universes.
时间：17:45
zh-cn:最后，我将用一个有关遥远未来的所有想法的令人瞩目的暗示来结束。你看，我们得知我们的宇宙不是静态的，空间是在扩张的，这个扩张是在加速的，可能会有别的宇宙，我们可以通过仔细检查微弱的星光来确定那些遥远的星系。但是因为这种扩张太快，在遥远的未来，这些星系会离我们很远很远以至我们再也看不到它们—不是因为技术的限制，而是因为物理定律。这些星系发出的光，。即使以很快的速度行走，以光速行走，也克服不了我们之间已经扩展的鸿沟所以在将来天文学家遥望远空除了静静的漆黑的沉寂什么也看不到。他们就会下结论说宇宙是安静的不变的，由一个中央绿洲的居民占据着—这幅宇宙的图画我们知道是完全错的。
en:I&#39;ll concludewith a striking implicationof all these ideasfor the very far future.You see, we learnedthat our universe is not static,that space is expanding,that that expansion is speeding upand that there might be other universesall by carefully examiningfaint pinpoints of starlightcoming to us from distant galaxies.But because the expansion is speeding up,in the very far future,those galaxies will rush away so far and so fastthat we won&#39;t be able to see them —not because of technological limitations,but because of the laws of physics.The light those galaxies emit,even traveling at the fastest speed, the speed of light,will not be able to overcomethe ever-widening gulf between us.So astronomers in the far futurelooking out into deep spacewill see nothing but an endless stretchof static, inky, black stillness.And they will concludethat the universe is static and unchangingand populated by a single central oasis of matterthat they inhabit —a picture of the cosmosthat we definitively know to be wrong.
时间：19:01
zh-cn:或许这些未来的天文学家会有早期时代传下来的纪录，就像我们的，证明有一个充满星系的膨胀的宇宙。但这些未来的天文学家会相信这里古老的知识吗？或者他们会相信他们自己最先进的观测显示的这个黑色的静态的空旷的宇宙吗？我怀疑后者。这意味着，我们正经历一个非常特权的时代，宇宙某些深层的真理还在人类探索能及的范畴。看来也许并不总是这样。因为当今的天文学家们，透过强大的望远镜，已经捕捉到少数可提供信息的光子—宇宙电报要走10亿年的路程。这个经历了不同的年代信息是清晰的。有时，自然通过牢不可破的物理定律来守护着她的秘密。有时现实的真实在地平线那边呼唤。
en:Now maybe those future astronomers will have recordshanded down from an earlier era,like ours,attesting to an expanding cosmosteeming with galaxies.But would those future astronomersbelieve such ancient knowledge?Or would they believein the black, static empty universethat their own state-of-the-art observations reveal?I suspect the latter.Which means that we are livingthrough a remarkably privileged erawhen certain deep truths about the cosmosare still within reachof the human spirit of exploration.It appears that it may not always be that way.Because today&#39;s astronomers,by turning powerful telescopes to the sky,have captured a handful of starkly informative photons —a kind of cosmic telegrambillions of years in transit.and the message echoing across the ages is clear.Sometimes nature guards her secretswith the unbreakable gripof physical law.Sometimes the true nature of reality beckonsfrom just beyond the horizon.
时间：20:15
zh-cn:多谢！
en:Thank you very much.
时间：20:17
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：20:21
zh-cn:Chris Anderson：布赖恩，谢谢你。你刚刚谈到的这些想法的范围真是令人眼花缭乱，兴奋不已，和难以置信。从历史的角度来看，你认为现在的宇宙学走到了哪一步？从你的观点来说，我们是在历史中的不寻常的一个时期吗？
en:Chris Anderson: Brian, thank you.The range of ideas you&#39;ve just spoken aboutare dizzying, exhilarating, incredible.How do you thinkof where cosmology is now,in a sort of historical side?Are we in the middle of something unusual historically in your opinion?
时间：20:37
zh-cn:BG：这个很难说。当我们知道将来的天文学家没有足够的信息去把事情弄明白，很自然的问题是，也许我们已经在一个位置和深度，因为宇宙学的演化，宇宙的一些重要特性已经超出我们的理解能力。所以从这个角度来看，也许我们永远是问问题，永远无法完全解答它们。
en:BG: Well it&#39;s hard to say.When we learn that astronomers of the far futuremay not have enough information to figure things out,the natural question is, maybe we&#39;re already in that positionand certain deep, critical features of the universealready have escaped our ability to understandbecause of how cosmology evolves.So from that perspective,maybe we will always be asking questionsand never be able to fully answer them.
时间：21:02
zh-cn:另一方面，现在我们能理解宇宙有多老。我们知道如何理解137.2亿年前的微波背景辐射的数据—我们今天可以计算并预测它将来会是什么样子，并如何与它匹配。不会吧！这太惊人了！所以，一方面，我们得到的太不可思议了，但谁知道我们将来会发现什么障碍呢？
en:On the other hand, we now can understandhow old the universe is.We can understandhow to understand the data from the microwave background radiationthat was set down 13.72 billion years ago —and yet, we can do calculations today to predict how it will lookand it matches.Holy cow! That&#39;s just amazing.So on the one hand, it&#39;s just incredible where we&#39;ve gotten,but who knows what sort of blocks we may find in the future.
时间：21:27
zh-cn:CA：你还要在这呆几天。或许我们会继续讨论。谢谢！谢谢你，布莱恩。（BG：很荣幸。）
en:CA: You&#39;re going to be around for the next few days.Maybe some of these conversations can continue.Thank you. Thank you, Brian. (BG: My pleasure.)
时间：21:34
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
