时间： 0:12
zh-cn:在1919年，一位显为人知名叫“西奥多•卡鲁扎”的德国数学家提出了一个大胆，甚至有些异乎寻常的猜想。他认为在我们的宇宙可能实际上包含不只三个维度并非像我们一贯所认为的那样。除了我们熟悉的左和右，前与后，上跟下外，“卡鲁扎”认为空间里可能包含有额外的维度只是因为某些特殊原因，我们还无法认知。当一个人有了大胆怪异的猜想，我们通常只会关注其大胆和古怪的部分，而这部分和我们存在的现实世界是毫无关联的。但是这一次，面对于这个猜想—虽然我们还不知道它的正确与否，之后我会谈谈一些会在未来几年里进行的实验，可能会证实它的真伪—这个猜想在上个世纪已经给物理学界带来了重大冲击毫无疑问，它会进一步推动大量前沿学科的研究。
en:In the year 1919,a virtually unknown German mathematician, named Theodor Kaluzasuggested a very bold and, in some ways, a very bizarre idea.He proposed that our universemight actually have more than the three dimensionsthat we are all aware of.That is in addition to left, right, back, forth and up, down,Kaluza proposed that there might be additional dimensions of spacethat for some reason we don&#39;t yet see.Now, when someone makes a bold and bizarre idea,sometimes that&#39;s all it is — bold and bizarre,but it has nothing to do with the world around us.This particular idea, however —although we don&#39;t yet know whether it&#39;s right or wrong,and at the end I&#39;ll discuss experiments which, in the next few years,may tell us whether it&#39;s right or wrong —this idea has had a major impact on physics in the last centuryand continues to inform a lot of cutting-edge research.
时间： 1:13
zh-cn:所以，我想借此机会与你一起探讨一下这些“额外的维度”。我们从哪里开始好呢？先让我们谈一些背景知识吧。话说1907年，那年“爱因斯坦”已经成功地发现了狭义相对论并且正计划开启一个新的课题研究—进一步深入地发掘被大家普遍认知的重力的由来。那时，很多人认为该课题早已被攻克了。“牛顿”已经在17世纪末提出了重力理论该理论可以正确地描述了星球间的运动，月亮的运动等等，但这个导致苹果坠落的令人质疑的运动，一直困扰着大家。虽然这些运动都可以运用牛顿理论来描述，
en:So, I&#39;d like to tell you something about the story of these extra dimensions.So where do we go?To begin we need a little bit of back story. Go to 1907.This is a year when Einstein is basking in the glowof having discovered the special theory of relativityand decides to take on a new project,to try to understand fully the grand, pervasive force of gravity.And in that moment, there are many people aroundwho thought that that project had already been resolved.Newton had given the world a theory of gravity in the late 1600sthat works well, describes the motion of planets,the motion of the moon and so forth,the motion of apocryphal of apples falling from trees,hitting people on the head.All of that could be described using Newton&#39;s work.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:但是“爱因斯坦”意识到“牛顿”遗留下了一些未解的东西，甚至“牛顿”本人也提到虽然他明白如何计算“重力”的影响，但是他无法真切地了解“重力”究竟是如何工作的。为什么距离地球9千3百万英里外的太阳，可以影响到地球的运动？太阳是如何超越空旷无极的宇宙来施展它的魔力？这恰恰是“爱因斯坦”想探讨地—究竟“重力”是从何而来。让我们来看看他究竟发现了什么。“爱因斯坦”发现传递“重力”的媒介其实就是空间本身。他的观点是这样的：想象空间是承载万物的本源。
en:But Einstein realized that Newton had left something out of the story,because even Newton had writtenthat although he understood how to calculate the effect of gravity,he&#39;d been unable to figure out how it really works.How is it that the Sun, 93 million miles away,[that] somehow it affects the motion of the Earth?How does the Sun reach out across empty inert space and exert influence?And that is a task to which Einstein set himself —to figure out how gravity works.And let me show you what it is that he found.So Einstein foundthat the medium that transmits gravity is space itself.The idea goes like this:imagine space is a substrate of all there is.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:“爱因斯坦”认为在没有任何物质存在的情况下，空间是细致扁平的。但在有物质存在的情况下， 比如说太阳，它会导致这个类似织布的空间扭曲。而这导致了“重力”的产生。地球同样会扭曲在它四周的空间。你看月亮。根据这个想法，月亮之所以能保持在它的轨道上，是因为它沿着曲面的内测旋转太阳，地球，月亮间的影响力均是因为它们本身的存在而产生的。我们来总体看一下。地球之所以保持在其轨道上是因为它旋转的曲面是太阳的存在而产生的。这是一个崭新的关于“重力”由来的观点。
en:Einstein said space is nice and flat, if there&#39;s no matter present.But if there is matter in the environment, such as the Sun,it causes the fabric of space to warp, to curve.And that communicates the force of gravity.Even the Earth warps space around it.Now look at the Moon.The Moon is kept in orbit, according to these ideas,because it rolls along a valley in the curved environmentthat the Sun and the Moon and the Earth can all create by virtue of their presence.We go to a full-frame view of this.The Earth itself is kept in orbitbecause it rolls along a valley in the environment that&#39;s curvedbecause of the Sun&#39;s presence.That is this new idea about how gravity actually works.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:随后，这个观点在1919年通过天文观测被肯定。这个观点能够正确的解释相关的数据。这使得“爱因斯坦”在世界上名声大震。而这也促使了“卡鲁扎”去思考。他和“爱因斯坦”一样，也在寻找我们称之的“统一理论”。一个理论能够用来描述所有自然间的作用力，可以是一整套观点，一整套法则，或者一条主宰万物的等式，用你的话来说。所以“卡鲁扎”自认为，“爱因斯坦”能够用扭曲的空间来描述“重力”—更精确的来说，用空间和时间。也许我也可以用相同的方式来描述其他已知的作用力，也就是当时已经被认知的电磁力—今天我们知道有更多的作用力，但在那个时期电磁力是另一个唯一被大众所思索的。你看，这种作用力反应了电场和磁场的相互作用。
en:Now, this idea was tested in 1919 through astronomical observations.It really works. It describes the data.And this gained Einstein prominence around the world.And that is what got Kaluza thinking.He, like Einstein, was in search of what we call a unified theory.That&#39;s one theorythat might be able to describe all of nature&#39;s forces from one set of ideas,one set of principles, one master equation, if you will.So Kaluza said to himself,Einstein has been able to describe gravityin terms of warps and curves in space —in fact, space and time, to be more precise.Maybe I can play the same game with the other known force,which was, at that time, known as the electromagnetic force —we know of others today, but at that timethat was the only other one people were thinking about.You know, the force responsible for electricityand magnetic attraction and so forth.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:所以“卡鲁扎”认为，也许我可以用相同的方式同样以“扭曲”为基点来描述电磁力。于是就有了进一步的问题：“扭曲”的依托是什么？“爱因斯坦”已经借用了空间和时间，并以其“扭曲”的结果来描述重力。似乎没有什么别的什么依托对象来实施“扭曲”了。于是“卡鲁扎”想，这样吧，也许空间里包含有更多的维度。他想，如果我要描述另一个作用力，也许我需要增加一个维度。所以他想象这个世界是由四个维度的空间组成，而不是三个，并且电磁力的作用是在第四维度上的“扭曲”而产生的。请注意这里：当他在写方程式组来描述四度空间的“扭曲”，不再是三度空间的时候，他发现“爱因斯坦”以三度空间为模型构建的方程式组—就是用来描述重力的—因其添加了额外的一维空间而增加了一个方程式。当他查看这个方程式时，发现没有别的方程式被其他的科学家用来描述这个被熟知的电磁力。太奇妙了—就这样被发现了。对于这个发现，他万分激动他围绕着房子边跑边叫，“成功喽！”—他已经发现了“统一理论”。
en:So Kaluza says, maybe I can play the same gameand describe electromagnetic force in terms of warps and curves.That raised a question: warps and curves in what?Einstein had already used up space and time,warps and curves, to describe gravity.There didn&#39;t seem to be anything else to warp or curve.So Kaluza said, well, maybe there are more dimensions of space.He said, if I want to describe one more force,maybe I need one more dimension.So he imagined that the world had four dimensions of space, not three,and imagined that electromagnetism was warps and curvesin that fourth dimension. Now here&#39;s the thing:when he wrote down the equations describing warps and curvesin a universe with four space dimensions, not three,he found the old equations that Einstein had already derived in three dimensions —those were for gravity —but he found one more equation because of the one more dimension.And when he looked at that equation,it was none other than the equationthat scientists had long known to describe the electromagnetic force.Amazing — it just popped out.He was so excited by this realizationthat he ran around his house screaming, &quot;Victory!&quot; —that he had found the unified theory.
时间： 5:39
zh-cn:很明显，“卡鲁扎”极为地偏重“理论”。他，实际上—有一个故事，当他想要学习游泳的时候，他读了本论述游泳的书—（大笑声）—然后就跳到海里去了。他就是这种将生命系于理论的人。你看，想我们这些稍微有些实践头脑的人，就他的研究上，两个问题会立即产生。第一个问题：如果空间中含有额外的维度，它们在哪里？似乎我们并没有观察到。第二个问题：这个理论确实能真实详尽地应用于我们的世界么？第一个问题在1926年被一个名叫“奥斯卡 克莱恩”的回答了。他认为维度可能以两种形式存在—一种维度可能很大，很容易被认知，另一种可能很小，卷曲在一起的维度，因为卷曲得太小了，虽然存在于我们周围，但我们无法认知。
en:Now clearly, Kaluza was a man who took theory very seriously.He, in fact —there is a story that when he wanted to learn how to swim,he read a book, a treatise on swimming —(Laughter)— then dove into the ocean.This is a man who would risk his life on theory.Now, but for those of us who are a little bit more practically minded,two questions immediately arise from his observation.Number one: if there are more dimensions in space, where are they?We don&#39;t seem to see them.And number two: does this theory really work in detail,when you try to apply it to the world around us?Now, the first question was answered in 1926by a fellow named Oskar Klein.He suggested that dimensions might come in two varieties —there might be big, easy-to-see dimensions,but there might also be tiny, curled-up dimensions,curled up so small, even though they&#39;re all around us,that we don&#39;t see them.
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:请看这里的图像演示。设想你正在关注一根支持交通灯的钢缆。是在曼哈顿。你正在中央公园— 好像跑题了—从远处看，钢缆貌似是一维的，但大家都知道钢缆是有粗细之分的。虽然从远处来看是非常难辩认的。但如果我们聚焦来看，比如，一只小蚂蚁在上面爬行着—因为蚂蚁的微小，它可以穿越不同的维度—长的维度，同样顺时针和逆时针的方向。同时，我希望你们能感激我们所做的。我们费了很大功夫才让蚂蚁做到了这些。
en:Let me show you that one visually.So, imagine you&#39;re looking at somethinglike a cable supporting a traffic light.It&#39;s in Manhattan. You&#39;re in Central Park — it&#39;s kind of irrelevant —but the cable looks one-dimensional from a distant viewpoint,but you and I all know that it does have some thickness.It&#39;s very hard to see it, though, from far away.But if we zoom in and take the perspective of, say,a little ant walking around —little ants are so small that they can access all of the dimensions —the long dimension,but also this clockwise, counter-clockwise direction.And I hope you appreciate this.It took so long to get these ants to do this.
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:（大笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:但这却阐明了维度可以有两种类型的事实：大的和小的。 大的维度就存在于我们的周围我们可以轻易的识别，但也可能存在有额外的卷曲维度，就像钢缆的柱面，因为过于微小而未被发掘。让我们来看看它可能的形状。如果我们要看空间本身—当然，在屏幕上只能显示两个维度。将来你们之中的一些人会解决这个问题，当然任何不处于平面上的部分是在一个新的维度上，让我们深入，深入，再深入，一直深入到细微的空间本身—这里是关键：空间里可以包含额外的卷曲维度。
en:But this illustrates the fact that dimensions can be of two sorts:big and small. And the idea that maybe the big dimensions around usare the ones that we can easily see,but there might be additional dimensions curled up,sort of like the circular part of that cable,so small that they have so far remained invisible.Let me show you what that would look like.So, if we take a look, say, at space itself —I can only show, of course, two dimensions on a screen.Some of you guys will fix that one day,but anything that&#39;s not flat on a screen is a new dimension,goes smaller, smaller, smaller,and way down in the microscopic depths of space itself,this is the idea,you could have additional curled up dimensions —
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:这就是小圆环—因为太小了所以我们无法观察到。但如果你是超微小的爬行蚂蚁，你既可以在我们公认的大维度上爬行—就像在这些格子里—也可以在微小的卷曲维度里自由进出因为它实在太微小了，我们无法用肉眼直接看到甚至用我们最精良的仪器也无法观测到。但当深入到类似织布的空间本身，可能会存在更多的维度，正像我们刚才看到的。而这就是解释为什么宇宙中能够包含有更多的维度而并非我们所习惯认知的。那么对于我刚才提出的第二个问题：这个理论能够被运用于实践么？
en:here is a little shape of a circle — so small that we don&#39;t see them.But if you were a little ultra microscopic ant walking around,you could walk in the big dimensions that we all know about —that&#39;s like the grid part —but you could also access the tiny curled-up dimensionthat&#39;s so small that we can&#39;t see it with the naked eyeor even with any of our most refined equipment.But deeply tucked into the fabric of space itself,the idea is there could be more dimensions, as we see there.Now that&#39;s an explanationabout how the universe could have more dimensions than the ones that we see.But what about the second question that I asked:does the theory actually workwhen you try to apply it to the real world?
时间： 8:36
zh-cn:其实，“爱因斯坦”，“卡鲁扎”以及其他致力于优化这个体系并试图将其应用于当时被认知到的宇宙物理学，发现在细微处该理论并不能反应现状。在细微处，比如说，他们无法得到与理论计算相一致的电子数。曾经很多人致力于此研究，但从40年代，确切地说50年代起，这个奇怪但引人入胜的课题关于如何统一物理学法则的想法没落了。直到在我们这个年代，一些奇妙的事情发生了。在我们的时代，物理学家们正在尝试用一种新的理论来统一物理学，这其中包括我也包括世界各地的物理学家这种理论被称作“超弦理论”“超弦理论”奇妙之处在于乍一看它和多维度并没有什么关系但是当我们深入研究“超弦理论”的时候我们发现它以一种崭新的方式使这个理念得以复苏
en:Well, it turns out that Einstein and Kaluza and many othersworked on trying to refine this frameworkand apply it to the physics of the universeas was understood at the time, and, in detail, it didn&#39;t work.In detail, for instance,they couldn&#39;t get the mass of the electronto work out correctly in this theory.So many people worked on it, but by the &#39;40s, certainly by the &#39;50s,this strange but very compelling ideaof how to unify the laws of physics had gone away.Until something wonderful happened in our age.In our era, a new approach to unify the laws of physicsis being pursued by physicists such as myself,many others around the world,it&#39;s called superstring theory, as you were indicating.And the wonderful thing is that superstring theoryhas nothing to do at first sight with this idea of extra dimensions,but when we study superstring theory,we find that it resurrects the idea in a sparkling, new form.
时间： 9:37
zh-cn:下面让我来解释其中的道理什么是“超弦理论”？它是一个试图回答以下问题的理论在这个世界上，围绕着我们的万事万物都是由什么样的最基本的，不可再分的成分组成的？这个理论的观点是现在来想象一下我们观察一个熟悉的物体，一个烛托里的蜡烛接着想象我们试图弄明白它的构成于是我们展开一段旅程，进入到这个物体的深处来研究它的构成我们到了内部足够深的地方，你看到了原子我们也知道原子并不是最小的单位我们看到微小的电子紧紧地围绕着中心的原子核原子核中有中子和质子而在中子和质子里我们也能发现更小的粒子—夸克以上是以被广泛接受的观点
en:So, let me just tell you how that goes.Superstring theory — what is it?Well, it&#39;s a theory that tries to answer the question:what are the basic, fundamental, indivisible, uncuttable constituentsmaking up everything in the world around us?The idea is like this.So, imagine we look at a familiar object, just a candle in a holder,and imagine that we want to figure out what it is made of.So we go on a journey deep inside the object and examine the constituents.So deep inside — we all know, you go sufficiently far down, you have atoms.We also all know that atoms are not the end of the story.They have little electrons that swarm around a central nucleuswith neutrons and protons.Even the neutrons and protons have smaller particles inside of them known as quarks.That is where conventional ideas stop.
时间：10:26
zh-cn:现在我要讲的是弦理论提出的新观点在那些粒子的深处，还可以发现一些东西他们是正在舞动的丝状物，携带着能量这些东西看上去像振动着的弦这就是弦理论从何而来就好像你看到的大提琴上的弦能以不同的模式振动这些弦也可以以不同模式振动他们不能产生各种音乐符号然而，他们制造出了围绕在我们周围，这个世界中的不同粒子所以，如果这个理论是正确的话这就是宇宙中极微观世界的情景它是由无数微小的振动能量丝组成的他们以不同的频率振动着不同的频率产生不同的粒子不同的粒子保证了我们这个世界的多样性
en:Here is the new idea of string theory.Deep inside any of these particles, there is something else.This something else is this dancing filament of energy.It looks like a vibrating string —that&#39;s where the idea, string theory comes from.And just like the vibrating strings that you just saw in a cellocan vibrate in different patterns,these can also vibrate in different patterns.They don&#39;t produce different musical notes.Rather, they produce the different particles making up the world around us.So if these ideas are correct,this is what the ultra-microscopic landscape of the universe looks like.It&#39;s built up of a huge numberof these little tiny filaments of vibrating energy,vibrating in different frequencies.The different frequencies produce the different particles.The different particles are responsiblefor all the richness in the world around us.
时间：11:16
zh-cn:这样你就看到了统一性因为不论是物质粒子，电子，夸克还是放射性粒子，光子，引力子，都是由一种实体构成的自然界中的物质和各种力都是由这些震动着的红色弦组成的这就是我们所说的统一理论但是问题是当你研究弦理论中的数学时你会发现它在我们这个只有三维空间的宇宙里是不成立的在四维，五维或六维的世界里也不成立最终，当你研究这些方程，你会发现它只适用于一个有十个空间维度和一个时间维度的世界这就是以前克鲁兹和卡莱恩的观点当我们的世界被合理描述的时候它的维度应该比我们肉眼看得到的要多
en:And there you see unification,because matter particles, electrons and quarks,radiation particles, photons, gravitons, are all built up from one entity.So matter and the forces of nature all are put togetherunder the rubric of vibrating strings.And that&#39;s what we mean by a unified theory.Now here is the catch.When you study the mathematics of string theory,you find that it doesn&#39;t workin a universe that just has three dimensions of space.It doesn&#39;t work in a universe with four dimensions of space, nor five, nor six.Finally, you can study the equations, and show that it worksonly in a universe that has 10 dimensions of spaceand one dimension of time.It leads us right back to this idea of Kaluza and Klein —that our world, when appropriately described,has more dimensions than the ones that we see.
时间：12:12
zh-cn:稍加思索，也许你就会说，好，你看，如果真的存在更多的维度，他们又紧紧地蜷缩起来是啊，如果他们真的足够小的话，也许我们确实看不到他们但是如果有一群微小的绿色智人在下面行走你可以想象让他们变得很小，小到我们眼不见他们，就是这样这个弦理论做出的一种预言不，这并不是弦理论做出的另一种预言
en:Now you might think about that and say, well,OK, you know, if you have extra dimensions, and they&#39;re really tightly curled up,yeah, perhaps we won&#39;t see them, if they&#39;re small enough.But if there&#39;s a little tiny civilization of green people walking around down there,and you make them small enough, and we won&#39;t see them either. That is true.One of the other predictions of string theory —no, that&#39;s not one of the other predictions of string theory.
时间：12:36
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:37
zh-cn:但是它引发了一个问题是我们企图把这些额外的维度隐藏起来呢又或者他们向我们揭开世界的奥秘在接下来的时间里，我会向你们展示这些额外维度的两个特点第一，我们中的很多人都相信这些额外的维度可以解答也许是理论物理，理论科学中最深层的问题这个问题就是：当我们环顾这个世界，在过去的几百年中，科学家们得出大约有20个数字可以有力地描述我们生活的宇宙这些数字包括粒子的质量包括电子和夸克，引力的强度电磁力的强度这大约20个数字已经被测量的极度精确但是没人可以解释为什么这些数字显示现在我们所测量出来的数值
en:But it raises the question:are we just trying to hide away these extra dimensions,or do they tell us something about the world?In the remaining time, I&#39;d like to tell you two features of them.First is, many of us believe that these extra dimensionshold the answer to what perhaps is the deepest questionin theoretical physics, theoretical science.And that question is this: when we look around the world,as scientists have done for the last hundred years,there appear to be about 20 numbers that really describe our universe.These are numbers like the mass of the particles,like electrons and quarks, the strength of gravity,the strength of the electromagnetic force —a list of about 20 numbersthat have been measured with incredible precision,but nobody has an explanationfor why the numbers have the particular values that they do.
时间：13:27
zh-cn:那么，弦理论可以给出答案吗现在还不行但是我们相信关于上诉问题的答案有可能有待这些额外维度的形态来解答令人称奇的是，如果这些数字换成了其他数值而非现在的数值那么我们熟悉的宇宙就将灰飞烟灭了这是个深奥的问题为什么这些数字被如此精心地调试使得恒星发光，行星得以形成我们意识到，如果你扰乱这些数字如果我把这个调高20或者我让你上台来搅乱这些数字几乎任何的干扰都会使宇宙消失那么我们可以解释这20个数字吗？弦理论认为，这20个数字和额外的维度有关系让我来向你们演示所以当我们讨论到弦理论中的额外维度时不是在讨论额外的一个维度就像早期卡鲁扎和克莱因的观点这才是弦理论描述的额外维度他们有非常多样又错综复杂的几何图样
en:Now, does string theory offer an answer?Not yet.But we believe the answer for why those numbers have the values they domay rely on the form of the extra dimensions.And the wonderful thing is, if those numbershad any other values than the known ones,the universe, as we know it, wouldn&#39;t exist.This is a deep question.Why are those numbers so finely tunedto allow stars to shine and planets to form,when we recognize that if you fiddle with those numbers —if I had 20 dials up hereand I let you come up and fiddle with those numbers,almost any fiddling makes the universe disappear.So can we explain those 20 numbers?And string theory suggests that those 20 numbershave to do with the extra dimensions.Let me show you how.So when we talk about the extra dimensions in string theory,it&#39;s not one extra dimension,as in the older ideas of Kaluza and Klein.This is what string theory says about the extra dimensions.They have a very rich, intertwined geometry.
时间：14:27
zh-cn:现在你看到的被称为Calabi-Yau形状名字并不是重点但是你们可以看到额外的维度嵌入他们之中缠绕，呈现出一种引人入胜的形状，一个有趣的结构这个观点认为如果这就是这些额外维度的样子那么我们身处的宇宙的在显微镜在呈现的景象在如此微小的尺度中看上去就是这样的就在你的一摆手之间你就来回穿梭在这些额外的维度里但是他们太小了，我们不会察觉到那么这20个数字隐含着什么物理意义呢？
en:This is an example of something known as a Calabi-Yau shape —name isn&#39;t all that important.But, as you can see,the extra dimensions fold in on themselvesand intertwine in a very interesting shape, interesting structure.And the idea is that if this is what the extra dimensions look like,then the microscopic landscape of our universe all around uswould look like this on the tiniest of scales.When you swing your hand,you&#39;d be moving around these extra dimensions over and over again,but they&#39;re so small that we wouldn&#39;t know it.So what is the physical implication, though, relevant to those 20 numbers?
时间：15:02
zh-cn:请这样来想。如果你看着这件乐器，一个法国圆号你会注意到这些气流的震动受乐器形状的影响在弦理论中所有这些数字反映了弦可以震动的方式所以就像这些气流是受乐器弯曲旋转的影响弦本身也受震动模式的影响。而震动模式是由移动的几何图案决定的现在让我来阐述弦理论的原理但是观察这些周围震动的细小物体时—将会有一个时刻—就是这个时候可以注意到他们震动的方式是受额外维度的几何图形的影响
en:Consider this. If you look at the instrument, a French horn,notice that the vibrations of the airstreamsare affected by the shape of the instrument.Now in string theory,all the numbers are reflections of the way strings can vibrate.So just as those airstreamsare affected by the twists and turns in the instrument,strings themselves will be affectedby the vibrational patterns in the geometry within which they are moving.So let me bring some strings into the story.And if you watch these little fellows vibrating around —they&#39;ll be there in a second — right there,notice that they way they vibrate is affectedby the geometry of the extra dimensions.
时间：15:37
zh-cn:如果我们准确地知道额外维度的形态我们现在还不知道，但是如果我们可以知道我们就可以计算出所有可能的模式所有可能的震动模式如果我们可以计算出所有可能的震动模式我们就可以计算出这20个数字如果我们计算出的答案等于这些数字通过细致精确的实验测量并认定的数值这将在很多方面成为首次彻底深入地解释为什么宇宙的结构是现在的样子。现在，我想解决的第二个问题是：我们如何更直接地证明这些额外维度的存在？这只是一个有可能解释世界上以前未能解释的问题的奇妙数学结构？又或者我们真的可以证明这些额外额度的存在？我们认为—我也认为，这将是一件激动人心的事情在将来的五年里，我们有可能成功地证明出这些额外维度的存在
en:So, if we knew exactly what the extra dimensions look like —we don&#39;t yet, but if we did —we should be able to calculate the allowed notes,the allowed vibrational patterns.And if we could calculate the allowed vibrational patterns,we should be able to calculate those 20 numbers.And if the answer that we get from our calculationsagrees with the values of those numbersthat have been determinedthrough detailed and precise experimentation,this in many ways would be the first fundamental explanationfor why the structure of the universe is the way it is.Now, the second issue that I want to finish up with is:how might we test for these extra dimensions more directly?Is this just an interesting mathematical structurethat might be able to explainsome previously unexplained features of the world,or can we actually test for these extra dimensions?And we think — and this is, I think, very exciting —that in the next five years or so we may be able to testfor the existence of these extra dimensions.
时间：16:44
zh-cn:事情是这样的。在瑞士日内瓦的欧洲粒子研究中心我们正在建造一座大型强子对撞机。这个机器会使粒子以接近光速在隧道中反向运动。大量粒子会迎面飞行并且发生碰撞。我们希望，如果这些撞击有足够的能量，撞击可能使部分残骸会从我们的维度中喷出，迫使它们进入其他的维度。我们是如果知道得呢？我们将测量撞击后的能量，将其与撞击前的能量作比较，如果撞击后能量减少了，这就证明了能量发生了逃逸如果它们以我们可以计算出的模式发生逃逸那我们就证明了额外维度的存在。
en:Here&#39;s how it goes. In CERN, Geneva, Switzerland,a machine is being built called the Large Hadron Collider.It&#39;s a machine that will send particles around a tunnel,opposite directions, near the speed of light.Every so often those particles will be aimed at each other,so there&#39;s a head-on collision.The hope is that if the collision has enough energy,it may eject some of the debris from the collisionfrom our dimensions, forcing it to enter into the other dimensions.How would we know it?Well, we&#39;ll measure the amount of energy after the collision,compare it to the amount of energy before,and if there&#39;s less energy after the collision than before,this will be evidence that the energy has drifted away.And if it drifts away in the right pattern that we can calculate,this will be evidence that the extra dimensions are there.
时间：17:34
zh-cn:让我向你们展示这个想法的视觉成果想象一下现在我们有一种叫做引力子的粒子—我们假设如果真的存在额外维度，这就是被喷出的残骸。但以下是这个实验的过程你握住这些粒子，把它们攥在一起你把它们攥在一起，如果我们是正确的话，撞击中的一部分能量将由残骸携带飞入这些额外维度。这就是我们在将来的5年，7年也许10年的时间里将要持续的实验。如果这个实验产生了成果，如果我们注意到我们所处的维度中能量比之前的能量有所减少我们就知道某种粒子被喷出这就证明了额外维度是真正存在的
en:Let me show you that idea visually.So, imagine we have a certain kind of particle called a graviton —that&#39;s the kind of debris we expect to be ejected out,if the extra dimensions are real.But here&#39;s how the experiment will go.You take these particles. You slam them together.You slam them together, and if we are right,some of the energy of that collisionwill go into debris that flies off into these extra dimensions.So this is the kind of experimentthat we&#39;ll be looking at in the next five, seven to 10 years or so.And if this experiment bears fruit,if we see that kind of particle ejectedby noticing that there&#39;s less energy in our dimensionsthan when we began,this will show that the extra dimensions are real.
时间：18:17
zh-cn:对我来说这是一个伟大的时刻，一个伟大的机遇。回顾历史，牛顿认为的绝对空间—他只证明了一个空间，一个宇宙中事件发生的舞台。当爱因斯坦出现，他告诉我们空间和时间是可以弯曲的，这就是重力现在弦理论出现并告诉我们对，重力，量子力学，电磁力学都可以被统一起来但前提是我们的宇宙拥有更多的维度，多过我们能观察到的也许在我们的有生之年就能看到这个实验证实了他们的存在如果真的发生， 那将多么令人激动谢谢大家。
en:And to me this is a really remarkable story,and a remarkable opportunity. Going back to Newton with absolute space —didn&#39;t provide anything but an arena, a stagein which the events of the universe take place.Einstein comes along and says,well, space and time can warp and curve — that&#39;s what gravity is.And now string theory comes along and says,yes, gravity, quantum mechanics, electromagnetism,all together in one package,but only if the universe has more dimensions than the ones that we see.And this is an experiment that may test for them in our lifetime.Amazing possibility.Thank you very much.
时间：18:55
zh-cn:（鼓掌声）
en:(Applause)
