时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我将很快的向大家解释一下我们怎样预测未来并且向大家展示一下我们对未来几年伊朗局势所做出的一些预测
en:What I&#39;m going to try to do is explain to youquickly how to predict,and illustrate it with some predictionsabout what Iran is going to do in the next couple of years.
时间： 0:23
zh-cn:为了做出准确的预测我们需要利用科学而利用科学的原因是我们可以重复验证所得到的结果这就不是智者的预言或者瞎猜如果我们可以预测未来我们就可以操纵未来换言之，当你想去左右国家能源政策的时候或者，当你想去影响国防政策医疗政策或教育政策的时候科学，其中一门科学将会为你指明未来并不是靠我们所使用的方法凭借经验或直觉去预言
en:In order to predict effectively,we need to use science.And the reason that we need to use scienceis because then we can reproduce what we&#39;re doing;it&#39;s not just wisdom or guesswork.And if we can predict,then we can engineer the future.So if you are concerned to influence energy policy,or you are concerned to influence national security policy,or health policy, or education,science — and a particular branch of science — is a way to do it,not the way we&#39;ve been doing it,which is seat-of-the-pants wisdom.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:现在，在我进入主题之前我先给大家一些事先声明，我不是算命的有一些东西我可以预测有一些我不能我可以预测一些大型谈判牵涉强制力的一些情景总的来说，那就是所有和政治有关的事情也包括一部份商业方面的但如果你想在股市抄底，那实在不好意思我确实不能预测股票市场，不过，好吧反正最近是绝对不可能涨上去的但那是我不会预测的我也不会去预测随机生成的数字有人曾今打电话问我下期中奖彩票号码是多少那我爱莫能助。
en:Now before I get into how to do itlet me give you a little truth in advertising,because I&#39;m not engaged in the business of magic.There are lots of thing that the approach I take can predict,and there are some that it can&#39;t.It can predict complex negotiationsor situations involving coercion —that is in essence everything that has to do with politics,much of what has to do with business,but sorry, if you&#39;re looking to speculate in the stock market,I don&#39;t predict stock markets — OK,it&#39;s not going up any time really soon.But I&#39;m not engaged in doing that.I&#39;m not engaged in predicting random number generators.I actually get phone calls from peoplewho want to know what lottery numbers are going to win.I don&#39;t have a clue.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:我所研究的是博弈论的应用，博弈论是数学的一个分支也就是说，对不起（文科生们），数学已经进入了政治学的研究领域我们现在不能被动的盲目的去推测政治我们应该采取科学严谨的方法。那，到底什么是博弈论?博弈论有一个假设，那就是人人为己这并不是一个让人吃惊的假设尽管有很多人认为人人都是自私自利是有争议的命题为了设法得到对自己最好的东西或者是他们所认定的对自己最好的东西人们会通过他们不同的价值观，来识别他们所想要的和所憎恨的而且，他们对别人想要什么，不想要什么别人有多少势力，他们能拿走多少你想要的保留他们自己的观点他们会遇到一些条件限制，约束也许他们十分的不起眼，也许他们在不应在的一些地方他们可能是爱因斯坦，但是被可能被困在印度的某个村落在种田就像拉马努金一样一个很少人关注的印度天才数学家
en:I engage in the use of game theory, game theory is a branch of mathematicsand that means, sorry, that even in the study of politics,math has come into the picture.We can no longer pretend that we just speculate about politics,we need to look at this in a rigorous way.Now, what is game theory about?It assumes that people are looking out for what&#39;s good for them.That doesn&#39;t seem terribly shocking —although it&#39;s controversial for a lot of people —that we are self-interested.In order to look out for what&#39;s best for themor what they think is best for them,people have values — they identify what they want, and what they don&#39;t want.And they have beliefs about what other people want,and what other people don&#39;t want, how much power other people have,how much those people could get in the way of whatever it is that you want.And they face limitations, constraints,they may be weak, they may be located in the wrong part of the world,they may be Einstein, stuck away farmingsomeplace in a rural village in India not being noticed,as was the case for Ramanujan for a long time,a great mathematician but nobody noticed.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:那，谁是理性的很多人都在冥想到底什么是理性的人人都是理性的特蕾莎修女，她是理性的恐怖分子，他们也是理性绝大多数人都是理性的我只知道两种例外情况两岁大的孩子，他们不是理性的他们想要的东西随时都在变他们的思维方式也在不停的变化精神分裂症患者也不是理性的但除了以上两者以外，其他所有人都是理性的所谓理性，那就是人们试着去做他们认为对他们自己最有利的事情
en:Now who is rational?A lot of people are worried about what is rationality about?You know, what if people are rational?Mother Theresa, she was rational.Terrorists, they&#39;re rational.Pretty much everybody is rational.I think there are only two exceptions that I&#39;m aware of —two-year-olds, they are not rational,they have very fickle preferences,they switch what they think all the time,and schizophrenics are probably not rational,but pretty much everybody else is rational.That is, they are just trying to dowhat they think is in their own best interest.
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:现在，为了预测人们将要做什么来获取他们的个人利益我们研究那些有影响力的人物如果，你想去左右一些企业的行为例如，减少他们污染物的排放量有一个方法，一种常见的方法那就是给他们一些忠告告诉他们这些污染物正在破坏我们的地球你会发现这些手段的效果并没有你所想象中的那么大但是，如果你告诉他们环保符合他们的利益他们就会有所回应
en:Now in order to work out what people are going to doto pursue their interests,we have to think about who has influence in the world.If you&#39;re trying to influence corporations to change their behavior,with regard to producing pollutants,one approach, the common approach,is to exhort them to be better,to explain to them what damage they&#39;re doing to the planet.And many of you may have noticed that doesn&#39;t haveas big an effect, as perhaps you would like it to have.But if you show them that it&#39;s in their interest,then they&#39;re responsive.
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:所以，我们就应该找出谁是有影响力的人物。如果我们研究伊朗，我们就会发现美国总统会有一定的影响力当然伊朗的总统也有一定的影响力但我们会犯一个错误当我们只关心决策层的领导因为那个领导人不一定理解伊朗抑或能源政策或者医疗政策甚至有可能不了解任何的政策那个领导人的周围一定还有很多的顾问若是我们在讨论国家安全问题那个顾问可能是国务卿可能是国防部长情报部门的主任或者是驻联合国的大使，或是决策层自选的一些相关问题专家。但现实是，国务卿也不一定十分了解伊朗国防部长不一定十分了解伊朗这些顾问们，同样的他们也被更多的顾问所包围着这样他们才能向总统进谏所以，是许多人影响做出决策也就是说，如果我们想正确的做出预测我们必须关注影响决策结果的每一个人并不仅仅是在决策机构金字塔尖上的人
en:So, we have to work out who influences problems.If we&#39;re looking at Iran, the president of the United Stateswe would like to think, may have some influence —certainly the president in Iran has some influence —but we make a mistake if we just pay attentionto the person at the top of the power ladderbecause that person doesn&#39;t know much about Iran,or about energy policy,or about health care,or about any particular policy.That person surrounds himself or herself with advisers.If we&#39;re talking about national security problems,maybe it&#39;s the Secretary of State,maybe it&#39;s the Secretary of Defense,the Director of National Intelligence,maybe the ambassador to the United Nations, or somebody elsewho they think is going to know more about the particular problem.But let&#39;s face it, the Secretary of State doesn&#39;t know much about Iran.The secretary of defense doesn&#39;t know much about Iran.Each of those people in turnhas advisers who advise them,so they can advise the president.There are lots of people shaping decisionsand so if we want to predict correctlywe have to pay attention to everybodywho is trying to shape the outcome,not just the people at the pinnacleof the decision-making pyramid.
时间： 5:33
zh-cn:但不幸的是，大多数时候我们没有这么做我们有很好的理由不这样做，我们也有好的理由去利用博弈论和电脑来克服仅仅关注在决策层的几个人而做出预测的局限性让我们来假想一个仅有五个决策人的情况。比如说Sally在那里她想知道Harry, Jane, George和Frank在想些什么她向其他人提供了一些信息Sally在给其他人传达她的观点其他人把他们的观点告诉给她但Sally还想知道Harry在给其他三个人说了些什么其他三个人有给Harry说了些什么然后Harry还想知道其他人有在说些什么，以此类推Sally还想知道Harry认为其他人在说些什么这就变成了一个很复杂的问题，太多的信息当有五个决策人的时候就有很多的联系信息事实上有120个如果你记得5的阶乘5的阶乘是120但也许出乎你的意外一个聪明的人可以在大脑里搞清楚120事情的来龙去脉但如果我们把决策人的数量翻一倍从五人到十人那我们是不是简单的关系的数量也乘以2， 从120到240呢？不？十倍？1200？不我们事实上增加到了三百六十万条信息没人能够把这弄清楚但是电脑可以它们可以。它们不用停下来喝咖啡它们不会放假它们晚上不用睡觉他们也不会要求加薪它们能够理清楚所有的信息也就是说，我们可以利用它们来处理信息
en:Unfortunately, a lot of times we don&#39;t do that.There&#39;s a good reason that we don&#39;t do that,and there&#39;s a good reason that using game theory and computers,we can overcome the limitationof just looking at a few people.Imagine a problem with just five decision-makers.Imagine for examplethat Sally over here,wants to know what Harry, and Jane,and George and Frank are thinking,and sends messages to those people.Sally&#39;s giving her opinion to them,and they&#39;re giving their opinion to Sally.But Sally also wants to knowwhat Harry is saying to these three,and what they&#39;re saying to Harry.And Harry wants to knowwhat each of those people are saying to each other, and so on,and Sally would like to know what Harry thinks those people are saying.That&#39;s a complicated problem; that&#39;s a lot to know.With five decision-makersthere are a lot of linkages —120, as a matter of fact,if you remember your factorials.Five factorial is 120.Now you may be surprised to knowthat smart people can keep 120 things straightin their head.Suppose we double the number of influencersfrom five to 10.Does that mean we&#39;ve doubled the number of pieces of informationwe need to know, from 120 to 240?No. How about 10 times?To 1,200? No.We&#39;ve increased it to 3.6 million.Nobody can keep that straight in their head.But computers,they can. They don&#39;t need coffee breaks,they don&#39;t need vacations,they don&#39;t need to go to sleep at night,they don&#39;t ask for raises either.They can keep this information straightand that means that we can process the information.
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:接下来，我会告诉你们怎样来处理然后我会向你们展示一下关于伊朗的一些预测你也许会纳闷儿了我们凭什么相信这个家伙？为什么我们要听信他所说的？所以，我先让你们看个数据这是中情局提供的一份评估报告关于我所提到的这个模型所做出的一些正确预测反而是提供数据的专家做出了错误的预测错误的预测我不是自卖自夸，这是中情局的东西，你可以读到的这报告在前一阵子解的密。你可以在H. Bradford Westerfield编撰的一本书里读到，耶鲁大学出版社
en:So I&#39;m going to talk to you about how to process it,and I&#39;m going to give you some examples out of Iran,and you&#39;re going to be wondering,&quot;Why should we listen to this guy?Why should we believe what he&#39;s saying?&quot;So I&#39;m going to show you a factoid.This is an assessment by the Central Intelligence Agencyof the percentage of timethat the model I&#39;m talking aboutis right in predicting things whose outcome is not yet known,when the experts who provided the data inputsgot it wrong.That&#39;s not my claim, that&#39;s a CIA claim — you can read it,it was declassified a while ago. You can read it in a volume edited byH. Bradford Westerfield, Yale University Press.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:所以，我们需要什么样的信息来做出预测呢？也许出乎你的意料之外，我们不需要太多的东西我们需要知道的是：哪些人有利害关系并试图左右决策。我们需要知道，他们口头上说的目标是什么不一定是他们真正心里所想的目标不一定是他们认为他们能够得到的而是挂在嘴边的目的，因为那是一个策略性姿态我们可以反过来推测，到底什么是真正的左右他们决策的重点。我们还需要知道，对于面临的问题他们的关切程度有多少。也就是说，当争议出现时，他们有多情愿放弃手头的东西并且注意这些而不是盘子里的其他东西这些东西对他们的重要程度是多少？我们还需知道 对这件事情到底他们能有多大的影响力如果他们选择介入议题。
en:So, what do we need to knowin order to predict?You may be surprised to find out we don&#39;t need to know very much.We do need to know who has a stakein trying to shape the outcome of a decision.We need to know what they say they want,not what they want in their heart of hearts,not what they think they can get,but what they say they want, because that is a strategically chosen position,and we can work backwards from thatto draw inferences about important features of their decision-making.We need to know how focused they areon the problem at hand.That is, how willing are they to drop what they&#39;re doing when the issue comes up,and attend to it instead of something else that&#39;s on their plate —how big a deal is it to them?And how much clout could they bring to bearif they chose to engage on the issue?
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:如果我们了解到了这些我们假设决策人都十分关心决策的两个东西（“名“与“利”），从而预测他们会做出的决策。他们重视结果，并尽可能的把最终决策拉向对自己有利的方向这些决策人也是干事业的，他们关心自己的信誉成就感是一个因素他们希望别人把他们看成促成决策结果的重要人物或者，成为阻碍决策结果的产生的重要人物。所以，我们还要找到他们名利双收的平衡点对于最终决策和成就感人人都有不一样的权衡有的人信守承诺，虔诚的追求荣光，有的不管如何，见风使舵，朝着自认获利方向行动。有的人站在在中间。如果我们知道他们的态度我们就可以对他做相应的工作来改变他的行为
en:If we know those thingswe can predict their behavior by assuming that everybodycares about two things on any decision.They care about the outcome. They&#39;d like an outcome as close towhat they are interested in as possible.They&#39;re careerists, they also care about getting credit —there&#39;s ego involvement,they want to be seen as important in shaping the outcome,or as important, if it&#39;s their druthers, to block an outcome.And so we have to figure out how they balance those two things.Different people trade offbetween standing by their outcome,faithfully holding to it, going down in a blaze of glory,or giving it up, putting their finger in the wind,and doing whatever they think is going to be a winning position.Most people fall in between, and if we can work out where they fallwe can work out how to negotiate with themto change their behavior.
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:所以，利用那些信息我们可以找出决策者们有什么样的选择他们愿意冒多大的风险他们想要什么，他们的价值观，他们的目的和他们认为别人想要什么你可能注意到了有一些信息是不重要的我们不需要知道过去的历史他们怎么回到今天这个地步也许对他们做出决策很重要但一旦我们知道他们到了今天局势我们想知道的就是他们未来的发展方向所以，今天的形势是如何形成的，在预测中并不关键我再提醒下大家我们百分之九十的正确率
en:So with just that little bit of inputwe can work out what the choices are that people have,what the chances are that they&#39;re willing to take,what they&#39;re after, what they value, what they want,and what they believe about other people.You might notice what we don&#39;t need to know:there&#39;s no history in here.How they got to where they aremay be important in shaping the input information,but once we know where they arewe&#39;re worried about where they&#39;re going to be headed in the future.How they got there turns out not to be terribly critical in predicting.I remind you of that 90 percent accuracy rate.
时间：10:26
zh-cn:那么，我们怎样获得相关信息呢？我们通过各种渠道搜集信息互联网，经济学人杂志金融时报，纽约时报美国新闻和世界报道，还有其他一些资源或者我们会直接去询问那些花费了毕生精力来研究该地区和问题的专家因为他们有大量的信息如果那些专家都不知道有哪些人在影响最终决策那些人有多大能耐有多关心最终结果，那些人表面上的目的那他们还是什么“专家”。作为专家他们就应该知道这些基础问题的答案
en:So where are we going to get this information?We can get this informationfrom the Internet, from The Economist,The Financial Times, The New York Times,U.S. News and World Report, lots of sources like that,or we can get it from asking expertswho spend their lives studying places and problems,because those experts know this information.If they don&#39;t know, who are the people trying to influence the decision,how much clout do they have,how much they care about this issue, and what do they say they want,are they experts? That&#39;s what it means to be an expert,that&#39;s the basic stuff an expert needs to know.
时间：11:03
zh-cn:好，现在我们转向伊朗我会做出三个重要的预测我们走着瞧，时间会证明一切伊朗的核武器计划是怎样的？伊朗政教合一的政权是否稳定？它的未来怎样？还有我们大家的朋友伊朗总统内贾德。 他的下场是怎样的？他未来一两年的日子好过吗？你们可以看看这个，这些不是基于统计数字我想明确这一点。我不是在用过去的数字来预测未来我把各种有影响力的人物关于些问题所占的位置输入一个电脑模型并模拟真人动态互相影响的过程这就是整个模拟的动态过程我们对伊朗核政策路线的预测
en:Alright, lets turn to Iran.Let me make three important predictions —you can check this out, time will tell.What is Iran going to do about its nuclear weapons program?How secure is the theocratic regime in Iran?What&#39;s its future?And everybody&#39;s best friend,Ahmadinejad. How are things going for him?How are things going to be working out for him in the next year or two?You take a look at this, this is not based on statistics.I want to be very clear here. I&#39;m not projecting some past data into the future.I&#39;ve taken inputs on positions and so forth,run it through a computer modelthat had simulated the dynamics of interaction,and these are the simulated dynamics,the predictions about the path of policy.
时间：11:57
zh-cn:你先可以看到纵轴我没有一直写到零这还有其他很多可能，但我仅仅展示了我们的预测我也缩小了比例在纵轴的最高处写着 ：制造核弹在130这个位置，我们大概从130开始那是在制造一枚核弹和生产足够核武器原料之间根据我的分析，那就是伊朗人今年初所在的位置现在，我们的模型开是进行预测了在115，他们只会生产足够的核武器原料以展示他们懂得怎么造，但他们不会去造他们会制造足够的原料用于科研这样可以震震国威但不会去制造真正的核弹在下面100的地方，他们会制造和原料以用于核能生产也就是他们口头上的目标
en:So you can see here on the vertical axis,I haven&#39;t shown it all the way down to zero,there are lots of other options, but here I&#39;m just showing you the prediction,so I&#39;ve narrowed the scale.Up at the top of the axis, &quot;Build the Bomb.&quot;At 130, we start somewhere above 130,between building a bomb, and making enough weapons-grade fuelso that you could build a bomb.That&#39;s where, according to my analyses,the Iranians were at the beginning of this year.And then the model makes predictions down the road.At 115 they would only produce enough weapons grade fuelto show that they know how, but they wouldn&#39;t build a weapon:they would build a research quantity.It would achieve some national pride,but not go ahead and build a weapon.And down at 100 they would build civilian nuclear energy,which is what they say is their objective.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:黄线告诉我们他们最有可能的路线这条黄线包括了87个重要的伊朗决策人和大量向伊朗施加压力的外国势力这包括： 美国，埃及沙特阿拉伯，俄罗斯，欧盟和日本，等等白线所代表的是将外国势力排除在外的伊朗政策走向如果国外势力不向伊朗施加压力让伊朗人自己做决定虽然那不会发生但是你可以看到，线向下滑的更快了若没有国际压力的情况下而让他们自己发展
en:The yellow line shows us the most likely path.The yellow line includes an analysisof 87 decision makers in Iran,and a vast number of outside influencerstrying to pressure Iran into changing its behavior,various players in the United States, and Egypt,and Saudi Arabia, and Russia, European Union,Japan, so on and so forth.The white line reproduces the analysisif the international environmentjust left Iran to make its own internal decisions,under its own domestic political pressures.That&#39;s not going to be happening,but you can see that the line comes down fasterif they&#39;re not put under international pressure,if they&#39;re allowed to pursue their own devices.
时间：13:29
zh-cn:但不管怎样，在今年底明年初，我们会有出现一个平衡这个平衡不是美国想要的，不过这个平衡是美国可以忍受的，很多人都可以忍受它。那就是，伊朗以制造足够的核武器原料获得民族自豪感，展示他们有能力制造武器级核燃料，但不够制造一枚核弹。这是怎么会事？在这里，你可以看到今天支持修建核电站的势力分布也就是说，这就是在2010年末，2011年初这个可能性的支持者将会变成这样虽然今天没有支持生产足够核武器原料但在2011年，那一组人将变成最大的一块把这两块放在一起，他们便成了控制伊朗的主流力量
en:But in any event, by the end of this year,beginning of next year, we get to a stable equilibrium outcome.And that equilibrium is not what the United States would like,but it&#39;s probably an equilibrium that the United States can live with,and that a lot of others can live with.And that is that Iran will achieve that nationalist prideby making enough weapons-grade fuel, through research,so that they could show that they know how to make weapons-grade fuel,but not enough to actually build a bomb.How is this happening?Over here you can see this is the distributionof power in favor of civilian nuclear energy today,this is what that power block is predicted to be likeby the late parts of 2010, early parts of 2011.Just about nobody supports research on weapons-grade fuel today,but by 2011 that gets to be a big block,and you put these two together, that&#39;s the controlling influence in Iran.
时间：14:32
zh-cn:在今天，有一群人比如说，内贾德先生他们不仅想造一枚核弹还想实验一枚核弹那一股势力在2011年将会彻底的消失这些人在缩小这股势力将会移向那里所以结果将是他们会制造核武原料
en:Out here today, there are a bunch of people —Ahmadinejad for example —who would like not only to build a bomb,but test a bomb.That power disappears completely;nobody supports that by 2011.These guys are all shrinking,the power is all drifting out here,so the outcome is going to be the weapons-grade fuel.
时间：14:54
zh-cn:那么在伊朗到底谁是赢家和输家呢？我们来看看这些人，他们的势力在增加顺便说一下，这个预测做了有一阵子了在这次金融危机之前做的那就是说 这条线也许会变得更陡这条线代表的是金钱利益集团银行家，石油集团,商人他们的政治势力在扩大而毛拉(伊斯兰神学家)们在孤立自己除了美国人不太了解的一类毛拉没有这样他们就是这条线，他们的政治力量也在增长这就是伊朗人所谓的“安静者”们这些是在库姆(Qom)的阿亚图拉(伊斯兰教什叶派的最高宗教职衔)，他们在伊朗宗教团体很有势力他们现在虽然很安静，他们的声音变得越来越大因为他们认为伊朗的发展方向不健康是与霍梅尼(伊朗1979革命精神领袖）构想的路线完全相反这条线是内贾德先生注意两件事，一 他越来越弱他在美国确实吸引了很多的注意但他在伊朗并不是一个主要人物他已在下坡路上
en:Who are the winners and who are the losers in Iran?Take a look at these guys, they&#39;re growing in power,and by the way, this was done a while agobefore the current economic crisis,and that&#39;s probably going to get steeper.These folks are the moneyed interests in Iran,the bankers, the oil people, the bazaaries.They are growing in political clout,as the mullahs are isolating themselves —with the exception of one group of mullahs,who are not well known to Americans.That&#39;s this line here, growing in power,these are what the Iranians call the quietists.These are the Ayatollahs, mostly based in Qom,who have great clout in the religious community,have been quiet on politics and are going to be getting louder,because they see Iran going in an unhealthy direction,a direction contraryto what Khomeini had in mind.Here is Mr. Ahmadinejad.Two things to notice: he&#39;s getting weaker,and while he gets a lot of attention in the United States,he is not a major player in Iran.He is on the way down.
时间：15:58
zh-cn:好吧，这我们就说到这里并不是所有的事情都可以被预测，股票市场至少对我来说，是不可预测的但是绝大多数的谈判是可以预测的再说一次， 无论是说医疗政策，教育政策环境，能源政策诉讼，公司合并所有这些复杂的问题都是可以预测的都是适用这种技术的。我们可以去预测这些事情是很重要的不仅仅因为你可以开个对冲基金来挣一大笔钱而是因为你可以去预测人类的行为然后去操纵他们的行为如果你可以操纵行为，那你就可以改变世界你可以得到一个更好的结果我最终想说的一点是对我来说，这次集会的宗旨就是也就是应该是我们看待这个世界的宗旨当有人说“这不可能”你回应道“当你说‘不可能’的时候”你其实在说“我不知道怎样去做”谢谢
en:OK, so I&#39;d like you to take a little away from this.Everything is not predictable: the stock marketis, at least for me, not predictable,but most complicated negotiations are predictable.Again, whether we&#39;re talking health policy, education,environment, energy,litigation, mergers,all of these are complicated problemsthat are predictable,that this sort of technology can be applied to.And the reason that being able to predict those things is important,is not just because you might run a hedge fund and make money off of it,but because if you can predict what people will do,you can engineer what they will do.And if you engineer what they do you can change the world,you can get a better result.I would like to leave you with one thought, which isfor me, the dominant theme of this gathering,and is the dominant theme of this way of thinking about the world.When people say to you,&quot;That&#39;s impossible,&quot;you say back to them,&quot;When you say &#39;That&#39;s impossible,&#39;you&#39;re confused with,&#39;I don&#39;t know how to do it.&#39;&quot;Thank you.
时间：17:14
zh-cn:鼓掌
en:(Applause)
时间：17:18
zh-cn:我有一个问题那太让人着迷了我很喜欢你刚才讲的你说到一半的时候，我变得很紧张在你的模型中， 你是否认为公布你的预测可能会改变未来结果我们在德黑兰有800个人在观看TEDTalks
en:Chris Anderson: One question for you.That was fascinating.I love that you put it out there.I got very nervous halfway through the talk though,just panicking whether you&#39;d included in your model, the possibility thatputting this prediction out there might change the result.We&#39;ve got 800 people in Tehran who watch TEDTalks.
时间：17:38
zh-cn:我想过这个问题因为我和情报机构进行了大量的工作他们也想过这个问题如果人人都投入更多的注意力更加的重视它进行同样的计算预测我们可以改变很多的事情。 益处主要是两个方面的它可以催促人们达成一个协议所以大家都可以省很多不必要悲伤和时间然后，这个种协议是皆大欢喜的不用进行太多的操控那就是我所做的，操控结果所以，这是一个很好的东西
en:Bruce Bueno de Mesquita: I&#39;ve thought about that,and since I&#39;ve done a lot of work for the intelligence community,they&#39;ve also pondered that.It would be a good thing ifpeople paid more attention, took seriously,and engaged in the same sorts of calculations,because it would change things. But it would change things in two beneficial ways.It would hasten how quickly people arrive at an agreement,and so it would save everybody a lot of grief and time.And, it would arrive at an agreement that everybody was happy with,without having to manipulate them so much —which is basically what I do, I manipulate them.So it would be a good thing.
时间：18:19
zh-cn:那么，你就是在试着说：“伊朗的人们， 这就是你的命运， 大家就这样做吧.&quot;
en:CA: So you&#39;re kind of trying to say, &quot;People of Iran, this is your destiny, lets go there.&quot;
时间：18:23
zh-cn:我会说，伊朗的人们， 这就是你们期望达到的结果我们可以更快的达成协议你们可以少受一点经济制裁我们可以少一点军事行动的恐惧这个世界将会变得更加美好
en:BBM: Well, people of Iran, this is what many of you are going to evolve to want,and we could get there a lot sooner,and you would suffer a lot less trouble from economic sanctions,and we would suffer a lot less fear of the use of military force on our end,and the world would be a better place.
时间：18:42
zh-cn:我们希望他们是这样认为的。谢谢你布鲁斯
en:CA: Here&#39;s hoping they hear it that way. Thank you very much Bruce.
时间：18:45
zh-cn:谢谢
en:BBM: Thank you.
时间：18:47
zh-cn:鼓掌
en:(Applause)
