时间： 0:11
zh-cn:作为一名艺术家，联系对我来说是非常重要的 。通过我的艺术作品我试着阐明人类不是与自然分隔开而是每一件事都是互相联系的。大约10年前我第一次去了南极洲，我也第一次看到了冰山。我感到敬畏。我的心快速地砰动，头晕目眩，试着理解在我面前的这到底是什么。在我身边的冰山浮出水面几乎200英尺。我只能感到很奇怪这就是一片雪花覆盖在另一片雪花，年复一年形成的。
en:As an artist,connection is very important to me.Through my work I&#39;m trying to articulatethat humans are not separate from natureand that everything is interconnected.I first went to Antarctica almost 10 years ago,where I saw my first icebergs.I was in awe.My heart beat fast, my head was dizzy,trying to comprehend what it was that stood in front of me.The icebergs around mewere almost 200 feet out of the water,and I could only help but wonderthat this was one snowflakeon top of another snowflake,year after year.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:冰山的形成是当它们从冰川断裂开或者从冰架上断裂开。每个冰山都有它们自己的独特个性。它们与其周边的环境和其情况的互动具有一个鲜明的方式。有些冰山拒绝妥协坚持到底，而另一些冰山就不能忍受在一时剧烈激情喷涌下就水崩冰裂。
en:Icebergs are bornwhen they calve off of glaciersor break off of ice shelves.Each iceberg has its own individual personality.They have a distinct wayof interacting with their environmentand their experiences.Some refuse to give upand hold on to the bitter end,while others can&#39;t take it anymoreand crumble in a fit of dramatic passion.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:当你看到冰山，很容易就想到它们都是孤立的，它们是独立的，单独一体的，更像是我们人类有时候对自身的看法。但现实远不止这个。随着冰山融化，我呼吸到它古老的气味。随着冰山融化，它释放了富有矿物质的鲜水它们滋养了万物。
en:It&#39;s easy to think, when you look at an iceberg,that they&#39;re isolated,that they&#39;re separate and alone,much like we as humans sometimes view ourselves.But the reality is far from it.As an iceberg melts,I am breathing inits ancient atmosphere.As the iceberg melts,it is releasing mineral-rich fresh waterthat nourishes many forms of life.
时间： 1:50
zh-cn:我着手拍摄这些冰山好似我在拍摄我祖先的肖像，了解到在这些个别的时刻冰山原是以那样方式存在但再也不会像那样存在了。当它们融化时，这绝不是死亡；也绝不是一个终结，而是通往生生不息之路的一个延续。我拍摄过的冰山，有些冰是非常年轻—几千年年龄。有些冰超过十万年。
en:I approach photographing these icebergsas if I&#39;m making portraits of my ancestors,knowing that in these individual momentsthey exist in that wayand will never exist that way again.It is not a death when they melt;it is not an end,but a continuationof their path through the cycle of life.Some of the ice in the icebergs that I photograph is very young —a couple thousand years old.And some of the iceis over 100,000 years old.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:我想给大家展示的最后图片是我在格陵兰岛的Kekertsuatsiak上拍摄的一个冰山。这是一个非常难得的机会大家实际上得以见证一个冰山翻滚。所以这就如图所示。在左边你能看到一个小船。这是一个约15英尺的船。我想让你注意冰山的形状它在水面上的变形。在这儿你看到它开始翻滚，小船移动到另一边，一个男人站在那里。这是一个平均尺寸的格陵兰冰山。它浮出水面大约有120英尺高或者40米高。这视频是实时拍摄的。
en:The last pictures I&#39;d like to show youare of an iceberg that I photographedin Qeqetarsuaq, Greenland.It&#39;s a very rare occasionthat you get to actually witnessan iceberg rolling.So here it is.You can see on the left side a small boat.That&#39;s about a 15-foot boat.And I&#39;d like you to pay attentionto the shape of the icebergand where it is at the waterline.You can see here, it begins to roll,and the boat has moved to the other side, and the man is standing there.This is an average-size Greenlandic iceberg.It&#39;s about 120 feet above the water,or 40 meters.And this video is real time.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 3:48
zh-cn:就像这冰山，它们展示给大家的是其个性的不同方面。
en:And just like that,the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 3:56
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
