时间： 0:11
zh-cn:大家下午好。我有些东西想展示给大家。（笑声）把这个看作一个像素，一个飞行的像素。我们在实验室里，叫它感应设计。让我为你们介绍一下这个东西现在如果你拿着这张照片—我是意大利人，每个意大利男孩卧室墙上都有这张照片来伴随他们长大。但是我给你看这个原因是因为一些有趣的事情发生在F1方程式赛上在过去的几十年里。以前，如果你想在F1赛上夺冠，你只需要有预算，然后把你的预算赌在一个好车手和好车上。如果你的车和车手够好的话，那你会夺冠。现如今，如果你想夺冠，事实上你还需要其他一些东西比如这个—一些能实时检测赛车的装备它连接着上千感应器能把收集到的车的相关数据，传输进系统中，并处理并用这个来反馈决定给车本身使其实时地改变做到与信息收集同步。这就是，用工程师的说法，叫做实时监控系统。基本上，这个系统包括两个部件一个是感应器一个是驱动器
en:Good afternoon, everybody.I&#39;ve got something to show you.(Laughter)Think about this as a pixel, a flying pixel.This is what we call, in our lab, sensible design.Let me tell you a bit about it.Now if you take this picture — I&#39;m Italian originally,and every boy in Italy grows upwith this picture on the wall of his bedroom —but the reason I&#39;m showing you thisis that something very interestinghappened in Formula 1 racingover the past couple of decades.Now some time ago,if you wanted to win a Formula 1 race,you take a budget, and you bet your budgeton a good driver and a good car.And if the car and the driver were good enough, then you&#39;d win the race.Now today, if you want to win the race,actually you need also something like this —something that monitors the car in real time,has a few thousand sensorscollecting information from the car,transmitting this information into the system,and then processing itand using it in order to go back to the car with decisionsand changing things in real timeas information is collected.This is what, in engineering terms,you would call a real time control system.And basically, it&#39;s a system made of two components —a sensing and an actuating component.
时间： 1:44
zh-cn:如今，有趣的是这个实时监控系统正开始渗透到我们的生活中。我们的城市，在过去的几年中，已经被网络，电子工业所覆盖。它 们变得好像无线收放电脑。同时，作为无线收放的电脑，它们开始做出不同的回应能传感和制动。如果我们能优化城市，实际上这是个飞跃。说句题外话，我想说，城市只占了地球表面的百分之2，但是它们却占据了世界人口的百分之50。它们的能源消耗占世界的百分之75—产生百分之80的二氧化碳排放量。所以如果我们优化城市，那将会是个飞越。在这些城市之上，所有这些传感和制动正在进入我们每天的日常事物中。
en:What is interesting todayis that real time control systemsare starting to enter into our lives.Our cities, over the past few years,just have been blanketedwith networks, electronics.They&#39;re becoming like computers in open air.And, as computers in open air,they&#39;re starting to respond in a different wayto be able to be sensed and to be actuated.If we fix cities, actually it&#39;s a big deal.Just as an aside, I wanted to mention,cities are only two percent of the Earth&#39;s crust,but they are 50 percent of the world&#39;s population.They are 75 percent of the energy consumption —up to 80 percent of CO2 emissions.So if we&#39;re able to do something with cities, that&#39;s a big deal.Beyond cities,all of this sensing and actuatingis entering our everyday objects.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:这是今年夏天柏拉·安东内利在纽约现代艺术博物馆组织的一次展览。主题为“与我交谈。”我们的事物，我们的环境，正在开始给我们反馈。某种意义上，就像每个原子都在变成传感器和制动器。同时这也根本上改变了我们作为人类和大自然之间的关系。某种意义上，这简直就是米开朗琪罗古老的梦想...你知道，当米开朗琪罗雕刻摩西像时，在最后他拿起铁锤，扔向摩西像—事实上你还看到底下那小的凹槽—说着，咆哮着，“你为什不说话，为什么？”今天，第一次，我们的环境开始给我们反馈。我将展示几个案例—有一次，随着我们的意识去感应并回应我们环境。
en:That&#39;s from an exhibition thatPaola Antonelli is organizingat MoMA later this year, during the summer.It&#39;s called &quot;Talk to Me.&quot;Well our objects, our environmentis starting to talk back to us.In a certain sense, it&#39;s almost as if every atom out therewere becoming both a sensor and an actuator.And that is radically changing the interaction we have as humanswith the environment out there.In a certain sense,it&#39;s almost as if the old dream of Michelangelo ...you know, when Michelangelo sculpted the Moses,at the end it said that he took the hammer, threw it at the Moses —actually you can still see a small chip underneath —and said, shouted,&quot;Perché non parli? Why don&#39;t you talk?&quot;Well today, for the first time,our environment is starting to talk back to us.And I&#39;ll show just a few examples —again, with this idea of sensing our environment and actuating it.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:让我们从传感阶段开始。我想分享给你的第一个项目事实上是我们实验室的最初几个项目之一。那是在4年6个月之前的意大利。我们在那里做的实际上是用那时的一种新型的网络现如今已经覆盖全球—手机网络—并通过这个网络收集任何终端发出的密名的整合过的信息来理解城市是如何运作的。那年夏天是个幸运的夏天-2006年。这是刚意大利在世界杯夺冠的那年。你们中的一些也许记得，有场意大利对法国的比赛，那时齐达内终场前的，那个头槌。不管怎样，意大利最后赢了。
en:Let&#39;s starting with sensing.Well, the first project I wanted to share with youis actually one of the first projects by our lab.It was four and a half years ago in Italy.And what we did therewas actually use a new type of network at the timethat had been deployed all across the world —that&#39;s a cellphone network —and use anonymous and aggregated information from that network,that&#39;s collected anyway by the operator,in order to understandhow the city works.The summer was a lucky summer — 2006.It&#39;s when Italy won the soccer World Cup.Some of you might remember, it was Italy and France playing,and then Zidane at the end, the headbutt.And anyway, Italy won at the end.
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:现在看看那天发生了什么就用网格来实时演示发生的情况。你现在看到的城市。你看到正中的罗马圆形大剧场，台伯河。这是早晨，比赛前。你看着顶端的时间轴。中午，这里那里的人打着电话，行走着。比赛开始—安静。法国队进球。意大利对进球。半场，大家迅速地打个电话，上个厕所。下半场，比赛结束第一个加时，第二个加时。齐达内，头槌的那个时候。意大利赢了。哈哈。（笑声）（掌声）那天夜里，每个人都去市中心庆祝。你可以看到高峰期。第二天，每个人都去市中心迎接凯旋的队伍和总理。接着人流开始回落。你们看到图上的这个地方叫做 马西莫赛场，从罗马时期开始，人们就去那里庆祝—会有一个盛大的聚会，在这天结束的时候看到高峰期。话说，这只是我们如今如何感知这个城市的例子之一，用这种我们几年前无法做到的方式。
en:Now look at what happened that dayjust by monitoring activityhappening on the network.Here you see the city.You see the Colosseum in the middle,the river Tiber.It&#39;s morning, before the match.You see the timeline on the top.Early afternoon,people here and there,making calls and moving.The match begins — silence.France scores. Italy scores.Halftime, people make a quick call and go to the bathroom.Second half. End of normal time.First overtime, second.Zidane, the headbutt in a moment.Italy wins. Yeah.(Laughter)(Applause)Well, that night, everybody went to celebrate in the center.You saw the big peak.The following day, again everybody went to the centerto meet the winning teamand the prime minister at the time.And then everybody moved down.You see the image of the place called Circo Massimo,where, since Roman times, people go to celebrate,to have a big party, and you see the peak at the end of the day.Well, that&#39;s just one example of how we can sense the city todayin a way that we couldn&#39;t have donejust a few years ago.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:另外一个简略的关于感知的例子：这次不是关于人的，而是关于我们使用和消耗的东西。今天，我们知道每一样东西从哪里来。这是一张地图展示给你所有的一台苹果电脑的零配件，如何组装到一起。但是我们却极少知道这些零配件最后报废到哪里。所以这个项目，我们实际上发明了一些小的标签来追踪这些废物从而使它在系统中移动。实际上我们和一些志愿者一起那些在西雅图愿意帮助我们的志愿者，就在一年之前，给那些人们丢弃的东西贴上标签—不同种类的东西，就像你看到的这些—那些我们无论如何都要扔掉的东西。我们把小的集成块，小的标签，贴在那些垃圾上然后开始追踪它。这是我们观测到的结果。
en:Another quick example about sensing:it&#39;s not about people,but about things we use and consume.Well today, we know everythingabout where our objects come from.This is a map that shows youall the chips that form a Mac computer, how they came together.But we know very little about where things go.So in this project,we actually developed some small tagsto track trash as it moves through the system.So we actually started with a number of volunteerswho helped us in Seattle,just over a year ago,to tag what they were throwing away —different types of things, as you can see here —things they would throw away anyway.Then we put a little chip, little tag,onto the trashand then started following it.Here are the results we just obtained.
时间： 6:11
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:从西雅图...一周之后。从这些信息中我们认识到系统中有太多的低效运作。我事实上能用更少的能源做同样的事情。这个数据先前还不可用。但是有很多垃圾运输和费解的事情发生了。还有另外一件我们坚信的事如果我们想那些我们每天扔掉的杯子，它并没有消失，它还是在地球上的某个角落。我们每天扔得塑料瓶还是会呆在那里。如果我们把这个展示给人们，接着我们也就能提倡一些行为上的改变。所以这就是这个项目的意义所在。
en:From Seattle ...after one week.With this information we realizedthere&#39;s a lot of inefficiencies in the system.We can actually do the same thing with much less energy.This data was not available before.But there&#39;s a lot of wasted transportation and convoluted things happening.But the other thing is that we believethat if we see every daythat the cup we&#39;re throwing away, it doesn&#39;t disappear,it&#39;s still somewhere on the planet.And the plastic bottle we&#39;re throwing away every day still stays there.And if we show that to people,then we can also promote some behavioral change.So that was the reason for the project.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:我在麻省理工的同事，阿萨夫·彼得曼，他会告诉你更多关于感知和很多我们用感知能做的奇妙的事情，但是我想先从第二部分开始讲起，这实际上是关于我们的环境。第一个项目是关于我们几年前在西班牙萨拉戈萨做的事。它开始于市长提出的一个问题，他找到我们说西班牙以至于欧洲南部用建筑，在公共场合善用水资源的传统。问题就是：技术，新的技术，怎么样才能使其锦上添花？其中一个点子是来自麻省理工的一个研发组是关于，想象一个管道，你有它的阀门，电磁阀，读数表，开启又关闭。你就创造了一个用水作为像素的水帘。如果这些像素落下，你可以在它上面创作，你能展现出花案，图像，文字。你接近它的时候，它甚至会关闭来让你跳过，就像你所看到这个图片。
en:My colleague at MIT, Assaf Biderman,he could tell you much more about sensingand many other wonderful things we can do with sensing,but I wanted to go to the second part we discussed at the beginning,and that&#39;s actuating our environment.And the first projectis something we did a couple of years ago in Zaragoza, Spain.It started with a question by the mayor of the city,who came to us sayingthat Spain and Southern Europe have a beautiful traditionof using water in public space, in architecture.And the question was: How could technology, new technology,be added to that?And one of the ideas that was developed at MIT in a workshopwas, imagine this pipe, and you&#39;ve got valves,solenoid valves, taps,opening and closing.You create like a water curtain with pixels made of water.If those pixels fall,you can write on it,you can show patterns, images, text.And even you can approach it, and it will open upto let you jump through,as you see in this image.
时间： 8:14
zh-cn:我们把这个展示给贝洛克市长。他很喜欢它。接着我们就得到了在世博会入口建造一幢大楼的允许。我们叫它数字水馆。整个大楼用水建造而成。没有门或者窗户，但是当你走进它的时候，它会自动开辟路口让你进入。（音乐）屋顶同样也是被水覆盖着。如果有一点风的话，如果你想少一点水溅出的话，你事实上可以把屋顶降低一些。或者甚至关闭整座大楼，那这个建筑就会消失，就好像这个样子。这些天，你会在冬天常常能看这样的景象当他们降低屋顶去过那里的人就会说，“他们在拆除这建筑。”没有，他们没有拆毁它，只是当它下降的时候，建筑本生几乎就是消失了。这是水建筑工作的情况。你可以看到人们对如何进入表示很疑惑。这是我在试着不让自己变湿，在测试打开水帘的感应器。
en:Well, we presented this to Mayor Belloch.He liked it very much.And we got a commission to design a buildingat the entrance of the expo.We called it Digital Water Pavilion.The whole building is made of water.There&#39;s no doors or windows,but when you approach it,it will open up to let you in.(Music)The roof also is covered with water.And if there&#39;s a bit of wind,if you want to minimize splashing, you can actually lower the roof.Or you could close the building,and the whole architecture will disappear,like in this case.You know, these days, you always get images during the winter,when they take the roof down,of people who have been there and said, &quot;They demolished the building.&quot;No, they didn&#39;t demolish it, just when it goes down,the architecture almost disappears.Here&#39;s the building working.You see the person puzzled about what was going on inside.And here was myself trying not to get wet,testing the sensors that open the water.
时间： 9:28
zh-cn:我应该告诉你有天晚上发生的事那时所有的感应器停止工作。但是这使那个晚上变得更为有趣。所有在萨拉戈萨的孩子云集此楼，因为进入大楼的方式变的有些不同。大楼不再会自动打开让你进入，但是大楼还是会被水帘分割出不同的空间那你就不能不跳过这次来不弄湿自己。
en:Well, I should tell you now what happened one nightwhen all of the sensors stopped working.But actually that night, it was even more fun.All the kids from Zaragoza came to the building,because the way of engaging with the building became something different.Not anymore a building that would open up to let you in,but a building that would still make cuts and holes through the water,and you had to jump without getting wet.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:（录像）（人群的喧哗声）
en:(Video) (Crowd Noise)
时间：10:02
zh-cn:同时，对于我们，这也很有意思，因为，作为一个建筑师，一个工程师，一个设计师，我们经常考虑人们如何使用我们设计出的东西。但是现实总是出人意料。这也是做这些事的魅力所在使用和互动同在。
en:And that was, for us, was very interesting,because, as architects, as engineers, as designers,we always think about how people will use the things we design.But then reality&#39;s always unpredictable.And that&#39;s the beauty of doing thingsthat are used and interact with people.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:这是一张用物理像素，用水做成的，然后在上面做投影同时它让我想起下一个我要展示给大家的项目。这是，想象这这些像素能飞。想象你会有一个小的可以在空中移动的直升机，同时每个上面都有一个小的可以变色的像素—几乎像一片可以在空中移动的云层。看一段录像。
en:Here is an image then of the buildingwith the physical pixels, the pixels made of water,and then projections on them.And this is what led us to think aboutthe following project I&#39;ll show you now.That&#39;s, imagine those pixels could actually start flying.Imagine you could have small helicoptersthat move in the air,and then each of them with a small pixel in changing lights —almost as a cloud that can move in space.Here is the video.
时间：10:43
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：10:49
zh-cn:想象一架直升机，像我们刚刚看到的那种，和另外一些直升机，同步的，移动。于是乎你得到了这样的云。你就得到了一种可弯曲的屏幕或者展示板，像这个—一个二维的常规配置。或者常规的，但是三维的，这里，改变的是亮点，而不是像素的位置。你可以使用不同的方法。想象你的显示屏能用不同的尺寸或规模，用不同的清晰度来放映。但是所有的一切只是一个3维的像素云而已你能拉近并穿过它并从很多，很多角度观看。这是受控下降像刚才一样形成标准的网格。当你开灯的时候，你事实上看的这个。和我们之前看的一样。想象如果其中的每一个都是被人所控制的。你能让每个像素都有从人那里得到对应的输入，从人的移动，诸如此类。
en:So imagine one helicopter,like the one we saw before,moving with others,in synchrony.So you can have this cloud.You can have a kind of flexible screen or display, like this —a regular configuration in two dimensions.Or in regular, but in three dimensions,where the thing that changes is the light,not the pixels&#39; position.You can play with a different type.Imagine your screen could just appearin different scales or sizes,different types of resolution.But then the whole thing can bejust a 3D cloud of pixelsthat you can approach and move through itand see from many, many directions.Here is the real Flyfirecontrol and going down to form the regular grid as before.When you turn on the light, actually you see this. So the same as we saw before.And imagine each of them then controlled by people.You can have each pixelhaving an input that comes from people,from people&#39;s movement, or so and so.
时间：12:28
zh-cn:我给你们看一些第一次展出的东西。我们正在和罗伯托·博列合作，现今最顶级的芭蕾舞者之一—纽约大都会艺术博物馆和米兰斯卡拉歌剧院的明星—来实时的捕捉他3D的动作为了用它来你能看到罗伯托在跳舞。你能在左边的像素点，不同的这都是实时的3维的扫描和动态捕捉。这样你就能重现这整个舞步。你能一直这样跳下去。但是，一旦你有了这些像素，你就能操控他们用彩色和动作重力和旋转来操控。我们想用这个来作为飞行火的一种可能的输入端。
en:I want to show you something here for the first time.We&#39;ve been working with Roberto Bolle,one of today&#39;s top ballet dancers —the étoile at Metropolitan in New Yorkand La Scala in Milan —and actually captured his movement in 3Din order to use it as an input for Flyfire.And here you can see Roberto dancing.You see on the left the pixels,the different resolutions being captured.It&#39;s both 3D scanning in real timeand motion capture.So you can reconstruct a whole movement.You can go all the way through.But then, once we have the pixels, then you can play with themand play with color and movementand gravity and rotation.So we want to use this as one of the possible inputsfor Flyfire.
时间：13:43
zh-cn:我想展示给你们最后一个我们在做的项目。它是我们为了伦敦奥林匹克而做的事。它叫做数字云。这个想法的来源，再一次，发挥想象，我们能让大家参与来做一些事来改变环境—就是来赞助我们的数字云的建造—就像谷仓的建造一样，但是是数字云。想想你能让每个人捐出一个像素的钱。我认为过去几年发生的什么事是卓越的是，过去的几十年里，我们经历了物理世界到数字化世界的转变。现在电子产品，知识，能连入互联网的端口到处都是。
en:I wanted to show you the last project we are working on.It&#39;s something we&#39;re working on for the London Olympics.It&#39;s called The Cloud.And the idea here is, imagine, again,we can involve peoplein doing something and changing our environment —almost to impart what we call cloud raising —like barn raising, but with a cloud.Imagine you can have everybody make a small donation for one pixel.And I think what is remarkablethat has happened over the past couple of yearsis that, over the past couple of decades,we went from the physical world to the digital one.This has been digitizing everything, knowledge,and making that accessible through the Internet.
时间：14:17
zh-cn:今天，第一次—奥巴马竞选告诉我们—我们能从数字化世界靠自发组织的网络力量回归到物理世界。这是可行的，用我们这个例子，我们想用它来设计和创作一个标志。它会意味着在城市中建立的某些建筑。但是未来它能是它能解决今天日益临近的挑战—想想气候变化或者二氧化碳排放—我们如何从数字化世界回归到物理世界的方法。所以我们事实上能让大家集体参与一起做这件事。
en:Now today, for the first time —and the Obama campaign showed us this —we can go from the digital world,from the self-organizing power of networks,to the physical one.This can be, in our case,we want to use it for designing and doing a symbol.That means something built in a city.But tomorrow it can be,in order to tackle today&#39;s pressing challenges —think about climate change or CO2 emissions —how we can go from the digital world to the physical one.So the idea that we can actually involve peoplein doing this thing together, collectively.
时间：14:47
zh-cn:这数字云是云，而且，用像素形成的，用现实中云形成的方式用微粒来形成云一样。这些微粒是水，这数字云是像素组成的云。这是在伦敦的你能步入其中，感受不一样的体验。你实际能在下方看见，2012年奥林匹克的重要时刻，并真正用它来作为连接社会的桥梁。同时天上的云和一些你能到达的顶部，像伦敦的新的山顶。你能进入其中。这是夜晚一种全新的数字化火炬—但是最重要的是，创造了一种任何人都能到达高峰的体验
en:The cloud is a cloud, again, made of pixels,in the same way as the real cloudis a cloud made of particles.And those particles are water,where our cloud is a cloud of pixels.It&#39;s a physical structure in London, but covered with pixels.You can move inside, have different types of experiences.You can actually see from underneath,sharing the main momentsfor the Olympics in 2012 and beyond,and really using it as a way to connect with the community.So both the physical cloud in the skyand something you can go to the top [of],like London&#39;s new mountaintop.You can enter inside it.And a kind of new digital beacon for the night —but most importantly,a new type of experience for anybody who will go to the top.
时间：15:33
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：15:35
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
