时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我的故事是关于战争的。是关于理想幻灭的。是关于死亡的。是关于在残骸碎片中重新发现完美主义的。或许，也是一堂课程讲述如何面对我们糟透了的，残垣断壁的危机重重的二十一世纪。我不相信直白的故事。我不相信在人生或历史中决定A会导致结果B从而导致结果C—这些我们被讲授的，并且我们相互鼓励的简洁的故事。我相信随机性，其中原因之一是因为我成为一名外交官就是很意外的我是色盲。我从生下来就分辨不了大多数颜色。这就是为什么我总穿灰色和黑色的衣服，我必须带着我的太太为我选衣服。
en:My story is a little bit about war.It&#39;s about disillusionment.It&#39;s about death.And it&#39;s about rediscoveringidealismin all of that wreckage.And perhaps also, there&#39;s a lessonabout how to deal withour screwed-up, fragmentingand dangerous world of the 21st century.I don&#39;t believe in straightforward narratives.I don&#39;t believe in a life or historywritten as decision &quot;A&quot; led to consequence &quot;B&quot;led to consequence &quot;C&quot; —these neat narratives that we&#39;re presented with,and that perhaps we encourage in each other.I believe in randomness,and one of the reasons I believe thatis because me becoming a diplomat was random.I&#39;m colorblind.I was born unable to see most colors.This is why I wear gray and black most of the time,and I have to take my wife with meto chose clothes.
时间： 1:10
zh-cn:我小时候总希望成为一名飞行员。我喜爱看着飞机快速飞过我们在乡间的度假屋。我男孩子时候的梦想就是当一名飞行员。我参加了皇家空军的飞行员测试，当然的，我失败了。我分辨不了闪烁的不同信号灯，我分辨不了颜色所以，我必须选择别的职业，这对我来说还算容易的，因为在我的童年时期，我就有了这么一个持久的激情，那就是国际关系。我还是个孩子时，我就很仔细地读报纸。“冷战&quot;的新闻很让我着迷，INF(Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces, 中程核导弹力量)签署中程导弹条约的谈判也令我着迷，还有苏联和美国在在安哥拉或阿富汗的代理战。我对这些内容很感兴趣。所以我很早就决定了我想当一名外交家。我，有一天，跟我父母宣布了这个想法—我父亲现在不承认这个故事—我说道，”爸爸，我想成为一名外交家。“他看着我，说道，”卡恩，你必须要特别聪明才能成为外交家。“（笑声）而我更加确定了我的抱负。
en:And I&#39;d always wanted to be a fighter pilot when I was a boy.I loved watching planes barrel overour holiday home in the countryside.And it was my boyhood dream to be a fighter pilot.And I did the tests in the Royal Air Force to become a pilot,and sure enough, I failed.I couldn&#39;t see all the blinking different lights,and I can&#39;t distinguish color.So I had to choose another career,and this was in fact relatively easy for me,because I had an abiding passion all the way through my childhood,which was international relations.As a child,I read the newspaper thoroughly.I was fascinated by the Cold War,by the INF negotiationsover intermediate-range nuclear missiles,the proxy war between the Soviet Union and the U.S.in Angola or Afghanistan.These things really interested me.And so I decided quite at an early ageI wanted to be a diplomat.And I, one day, I announced this to my parents —and my father denies this story to this day —I said, &quot;Daddy, I want to be a diplomat.&quot;And he turned to me, and he said,&quot;Carne, you have to be very clever to be a diplomat.&quot;(Laughter)And my ambition was sealed.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:一九八九年，我加入了英国外交事务。那年，有五千人应聘，只有二十个人胜出了。这个数据说明，我也被选入一个充满精英的迷人的令人振奋的世界。成为一名外交官，以往和现在，是一份很棒的工作，我热爱工作的每一分钟。我享受工作状态。我给我自己买一套很好的西装，我穿皮鞋然后陶醉于这个让我接近世界大事件的美妙的途径。我访问过加沙地带。我领导中东和平进程在英国外交部。我成为了撰稿人为英国外交大臣。我会见过亚西尔 阿拉法特 (注：巴勒斯坦领袖)。我同萨达姆的外交官们在联合国谈判过。后来，我去了喀布尔在塔利班失势后的阿富汗服务。我用C-130运输机旅行去探访在深山中躲藏的军阀们同他们谈判关于我们如何在阿富汗消灭基地组织，我身边都是特种护送部队，他们自己，都必须有一个排的皇家海军护航，因为实在是太危险了。是那很刺激，很好玩。真的是很有趣。他们是精英，不可思议的紧紧团结在一起的一群人。
en:In 1989,I entered the British Foreign Service.That year, 5,000 people applied to become a diplomat,and 20 of us succeeded.And as those numbers suggest,I was inducted into an eliteand fascinating and exhilarating world.Being a diplomat, then and now,is an incredible job, and I loved every minute of it —I enjoyed the status of it.I bought myself a nice suit and wore leather-soled shoesand reveled inthis amazing access I had to world events.I traveled to the Gaza Strip.I headed the Middle East Peace Process sectionin the British Foreign Ministry.I became a speechwriterfor the British Foreign Secretary.I met Yasser Arafat.I negotiatedwith Saddam&#39;s diplomats at the U.N.Later, I traveled to Kabuland served in Afghanistan after the fall of the Taliban.And I would travelin a C-130 transportand go and visit warlordsin mountain hideawaysand negotiate with themabout how we were going to eradicate Al Qaeda from Afghanistan,surrounded by my Special Forces escort,who, themselves, had to have an escort of a platoon of Royal Marines,because it was so dangerous.And that was exciting — that was fun.It was really interesting.And it&#39;s a great cadre of people,incredibly close-knit community of people.
时间： 3:50
zh-cn:我事业的顶端，事实证明，是我被派遣到纽约的时候我曾在德国，挪威，还有其他很多地方服务过，但是我被派遣到纽约作为英国代表团参加联合国安理会我的责任是中东，也是我的专长。在那里，我处理类似中东和平进程，洛克比事件 (注：发生在苏格兰南端小镇的事件)—如果你感兴趣，我们以后可以谈一谈—但是最重要的是，我的责任是伊拉克和它的大规模杀伤性武器以及我们对伊拉克的制裁以迫使它解除这些武器装备。我原是英国的首席谈判代表在这个议题上，我沉浸在这个事件中。无论如何，我的旅行—是非常非常令人激动的。我是说它是非常戏剧化的外交。我们经历了好几次战争事件当我在纽约的时候。我代表我的国家在安理会上协商一份决议（这份决议）在二零零一年九月十二日谴责前一天的攻击 （注：911事件）这件事当然深深地为我们展现了在那个时候真正生活在纽约的情形算是最好的时候，也是最坏的时候那种经历。我过着高品质的生活。尽管我工作时间长，我住在联合广场的豪华公寓中。我是纽约市中一名单身的英国外交官；你可以想象那意味着什么。（笑声）我有过一段美好的时光。
en:And the pinnacle of my career, as it turned out,was when I was posted to New York.I&#39;d already served in Germany, Norway,various other places,but I was posted to New Yorkto serve on the U.N. Security Council for the British delegation.And my responsibility was the Middle East,which was my specialty.And there, I dealt with thingslike the Middle East peace process,the Lockerbie issue —we can talk about that later, if you wish —but above all, my responsibility was Iraqand its weapons of mass destructionand the sanctions we placed on Iraqto oblige it to disarm itself of these weapons.I was the chief British negotiatoron the subject,and I was steeped in the issue.And anyway,my tour — it was kind of a very exciting time.I mean it was very dramatic diplomacy.We went through several warsduring my time in New York.I negotiated for my countrythe resolution in the Security Councilof the 12th of September 2001condemning the attacks of the day before,which were, of course, deeply present to usactually living in New York at the time.So it was kind of the best of time, worst of timeskind of experience.I lived the high-life.Although I worked very long hours,I lived in a penthouse in Union Square.I was a single British diplomat in New York City;you can imagine what that might have meant.(Laughter)I had a good time.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:但是在二零零二年，当我的任期即将结束的时候，我决定我不想回到那份在伦敦等待着我的工作。我决定休假实际上，在新学院大学，布鲁斯。早期时，说不清楚的情况下，我意识到有些事情不对劲关于我的工作，和我自身。我精疲力竭，我的理想也破灭了从某种方式上说，我并不知道为什么。我决定花些时间在工作之外的其他事情上外交部很慷慨。你可以享受这些特殊不带薪假期，他们这么说，但是仍然属于外交服务的一份子，只是没有具体的工作。我很好。终于，我决定采取借调加入了联合国在科索沃的机构，也就是那时在联合国的管理之下。
en:But in 2002,when my tour came to an end,I decided I wasn&#39;t going to go backto the job that was waiting for me in London.I decided to take a sabbatical,in fact, at the New School, Bruce.In some inchoate, inarticulate wayI realized that there was something wrongwith my work, with me.I was exhausted,and I was also disillusionedin a way I couldn&#39;t quite put my finger on.And I decided to take some time out from work.The Foreign Office was very generous.You could take these special unpaid leave, as they called them,and yet remain part of the diplomatic service, but not actually do any work.It was nice.And eventually, I decidedto take a secondment to join the U.N. in Kosovo,which was then under U.N. administration.
时间： 6:13
zh-cn:在科索沃发生了两件事，又一次，显示了人生的不确定性，因为这些事后来成为我生命中的两个支点帮助我到达下一个人生阶段。但是，那都是很随机的事情。一件事是，在二零零四年的夏天，英国政府，有点不情愿地，决定要展开对在伊拉克战争中对大规模杀伤性武器情报的正式调查，这是个很有限的议题。我秘密地为那个调查作证。我一直精通于伊拉克和大规模杀伤性武器的情报，我对此次调查的证词阐述了三件事：即，政府夸大了那些情报，从过去这些年来我所得知道的看来这很清楚。当然的，我们自己内部的评估很明确地指出伊拉克的大规模杀伤性武器不对其邻国构成威胁，更不用说对我们了。其次，政府忽视了除了战争以外的所有可行的替代方案，从某种角度说这更加可耻。第三个原因，我就不说了。但是不管怎么样，我所做的证词，也给我自己带来了危机。我将要做的事。这次的证词深深地批判了我的同僚们，部长们，照我看来，正是他们的错误导致了这场战争。
en:And two things happened in Kosovo,which kind of, again,shows the randomness of life,because these things turned out to betwo of the pivots of my lifeand helped to deliver me to the next stage.But they were random things.One was that, in the summer of 2004,the British government, somewhat reluctantly,decided to have an official inquiryinto the use of intelligence on WMDin the run up to the Iraq War,a very limited subject.And I testified to that inquiry in secret.I had been steeped in the intelligence on Iraqand its WMD,and my testimony to the inquiry said three things:that the government exaggerated the intelligence,which was very clear in all the years I&#39;d read it.And indeed, our own internal assessment was very clearthat Iraq&#39;s WMDdid not pose a threat to its neighbors, let alone to us.Secondly, the government had ignored all available alternatives to war,which in some wayswas a more discreditable thing still.The third reason, I won&#39;t go into.But anyway, I gave that testimony,and that presented me with a crisis.What was I going to do?This testimony was deeply critical of my colleagues,of my ministers, who had, in my viewhad perpetrated a war on a falsehood.
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:同时，我也身处危机之中。这不是什么好事情。我呻吟着，我徘徊着，我同和我一起受煎熬的妻子一同坚持了下来，终于，我决定从英国外交部辞职。我感觉到—就好像艾尔帕西诺的电影“局内人”，你们可能看过那部电影，他回到CBS他们（CBS）对烟草公司内部人员决定使得他很失望，然后他说，“你知道，我不能再干了。有些事不对劲。”这就好像我一样。我很喜欢那部电影。我感觉就是有些什么东西不对劲。我不能再同我的外交部长或者我的首相坐在一起谈笑风生，像我原先所做的一样让他们高兴。那感觉像飞跃起来跳过悬崖的边缘。
en:And so I was in crisis.And this wasn&#39;t a pretty thing.I moaned about it, I hesitated,I went on and on and on to my long-suffering wife,and eventually I decided to resign from the British Foreign Service.I felt — there&#39;s a scene in the Al Pacino movie &quot;The Insider,&quot; which you may know,where he goes back to CBSafter they&#39;ve let him down over the tobacco guy,and he goes, &quot;You know, I just can&#39;t do this anymore. Something&#39;s broken.&quot;And it was like that for me. I love that movie.I felt just something&#39;s broken.I can&#39;t actually sit with my foreign ministeror my prime minister again with a smile on my faceand do what I used to do gladly for them.So took a running leapand jumped over the edge of a cliff.
时间： 8:13
zh-cn:那种感觉非常，非常的不舒服，也不愉快。我开始觉得失落。直到今天，仍然没有停止；我依然觉得失落。但是，从某种方式上说，我已经习惯了这种感觉。从某种方式上说，我甚至有点更喜欢这种感觉。比起我真正站在悬崖边不知所措。在科索沃发生的第二件事，不好意思，我要喝点水。在科索沃发生的第二件事，是关于获得一个答案，我也不能回答的答案，那就是，“我要如何度过我的人生？”我热爱外交。却没有一份职业。我期望我的整个人生都是一名外交家，为我的国家服务。我希望成为一名大使，我的导师们，我心目中的英雄们，那些到达事业的顶峰的人们，我现在却要舍弃这一切。我的很多朋友还在其中。我的养老金也在。我却将它舍弃了。我下一步该怎么办呢？
en:And it was a very, very uncomfortable, unpleasant feeling.And I started to fall.And today, that fall hasn&#39;t stopped;I&#39;m still falling.But, in a way, I&#39;ve got used to the sensation of it.And in a way, I kind of likethe sensation of it a lot betterthan I like actually standing on top of the cliff,wondering what to do.A second thing happened in Kosovo,which kind of — I need a quick gulp of water, forgive me.A second thing happened in Kosovo,which kind of delivered the answer,which I couldn&#39;t really answer,which is, &quot;What do I do with my life?&quot;I love diplomacy —I have no career —I expected my entire life to be a diplomat, to be serving my country.I wanted to be an ambassador,and my mentors, my heroes,people who got to the top of my profession,and here I was throwing it all away.A lot of my friends were still in it.My pension was in it.And I gave it up.And what was I going to do?
时间： 9:16
zh-cn:那一年，在科索沃，发生了一件非常，非常糟糕的事情。二零零四年三月，可怕的骚乱遍布科索沃全部省份—那时的—科索沃十八个人被杀害。那是场混战。无政府状态是很可怕的，明知警察们，军队们—很多的部队驻扎在那里—却不能够阻止蜂拥到街道上的疯狂暴民。阻止那些冲到大街上的暴民的唯一方式是他们自己决定停下来当他们觉得烧够了，杀够了那真不是什么美好的感觉，我亲眼看到了我经历了这一切。我亲历了那些暴民。同我的阿尔巴尼亚朋友们，我们试着去阻止，我们却失败了。那次骚乱教会我一些事情，不是很明显，也算是个复杂的故事。
en:And that year, in Kosovo,this terrible, terrible thing happened, which I saw.In March 2004, there were terrible riotsall over the province — as it then was — of Kosovo.18 people were killed.It was anarchy.And it&#39;s a very horrible thing to see anarchy,to know that the police and the military —there were lots of military troops there —actually can&#39;t stop that rampaging mobwho&#39;s coming down the street.And the only way that rampaging mob coming down the street will stopis when they decide to stopand when they&#39;ve had enough burning and killing.And that is not a very nice feeling to see, and I saw it.And I went through it. I went through those mobs.And with my Albanian friends, we tried to stop it, but we failed.And that riot taught me something,which isn&#39;t immediately obvious and it&#39;s kind of a complicated story.
时间：10:02
zh-cn:发生骚乱的原因之一—那些骚乱，已经持续了好几天，—是因为科索沃人们未来的公民权被剥夺了。当时有个关于科索沃未来的外交谈判，科索沃政府，更不用说科索沃人们，都没有实际地参与到这些谈判中。整体看似优良的外交系统，这次关于科索沃未来的谈判过程，科索沃却没有参加。可笑的是，他们感到很沮丧。骚乱是体现沮丧的一部分。这并不是唯一的原因，生活不是简简单单的，一个单一的故事。那是个复杂的事情，我并不是要假装它比表面上看起来的要简单。但是，那是原因之一。
en:But one of the reasons that riot took place —those riots, which went on for several days, took place —was because the Kosovo peoplewere disenfranchised from their own future.There were diplomatic negotiations about the future of Kosovogoing on then,and the Kosovo government, let alone the Kosovo people,were not actuallyparticipating in those talks.There was this whole fancy diplomatic system,this negotiation process about the future of Kosovo,and the Kosovars weren&#39;t part of it.And funnily enough, they were frustrated about that.Those riots were part of the manifestation of that frustration.It wasn&#39;t the only reason,and life is not simple, one reason narratives.It was a complicated thing,and I&#39;m not pretending it was more simple than it was.But that was one of the reasons.
时间：10:47
zh-cn:那给了我一个启发—或者更准确得说，给了我妻子一个启发。她说道，“你为什么不帮助科索沃呢？你为什么不在外交上帮助他们的政府呢？”科索沃不允许有外交服务。他们不允许有外交官。他们不允许有外交部帮助他们处理这个极其复杂的过程，后来，这成为了众所周知的科索沃的最终地位进程。这个想法就是这样来的。那就是后来成为独立外交家的原始想法，是世界上第一个外交事务咨询团体而且也是非营利的。它开始于我飞回伦敦在科索沃的联合国任期结束后。我飞回后，在同科索沃的首相晚餐时，我对他说，“看，我提议我来给你当外交参谋。我很了解这个领域。我就是做这个的。为什么我不来帮助你呢？”他举起他的葡萄酒酒杯跟我说，“好，卡恩。来吧。”
en:And that kind of gave me the inspiration —or rather to be precise,it gave my wife the inspiration.She said, &quot;Why don&#39;t you advise the Kosovars?Why don&#39;t you advise their government on their diplomacy?&quot;And the Kosovars were not allowed a diplomatic service.They were not allowed diplomats.They were not allowed a foreign officeto help them deal with this immensely complicated process,which became known as the Final Status Process of Kosovo.And so that was the idea.That was the origin of the thing that became Independent Diplomat,the world&#39;s first diplomatic advisory groupand a non-profit to boot.And it began when I flew back from Londonafter my time at the U.N. in Kosovo.I flew back and had dinner with the Kosovo prime minister and said to him,&quot;Look, I&#39;m proposing that I come and advise you on the diplomacy.I know this stuff. It&#39;s what I do. Why don&#39;t I come and help you?&quot;And he raised his glass of raki to me and said,&quot;Yes, Carne. Come.&quot;
时间：11:39
zh-cn:于是我来到了科索沃为科索沃政府出谋献策。独立外交家最终帮助了三位科索沃首相和科索沃多党派的谈判。科索沃独立了。独立外交家也从此在世界上五个外交中心建立起来了，我们帮助咨询了七到八个不同的国家，政治团体，根据你如何定义他们—我不太注重定义。我们给予北塞关于如何统一它的岛屿的建议。我们为缅甸反对派做咨询，一个苏丹南部政府，你可能第一次听说他们—在接下来的几年内将成为一个新的国家。我们给波利萨里奥阵线西撒哈拉提建议，他们为他们的国家同摩洛哥而战夺回34年的被剥夺的领土。我们帮助多个岛国谈判气候变化将会在哥本哈根达到高潮。
en:And I came to Kosovoand advised the Kosovo government.Independent Diplomat ended up advising three successive Kosovo prime ministersand the multi-party negotiation team of Kosovo.And Kosovo became independent.Independent Diplomat is now establishedin five diplomatic centers around the world,and we&#39;re advising seven or eightdifferent countries, or political groups,depending on how you wish to define them —and I&#39;m not big on definitions.We&#39;re advising the Northern Cypriots on how to reunify their island.We&#39;re advising the Burmese opposition,the government of Southern Sudan,which — you heard it here first —is going to be a new country within the next few years.We&#39;re advising the Polisario Front of the Western Sahara,who are fighting to get their country backfrom Moroccan occupationafter 34 years of dispossession.We&#39;re advising various island states in the climate change negotiations,which is suppose to culminatein Copenhagen.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:这里也有随机性因为，当我开始成为一名独立外交家时，我参加了英国上议院的聚会，真是很有趣，我就这样拿着酒杯，但遇见了站在我后边的人我们开始谈话，他说道—我告诉他我是干什么的，我很隆重地告诉他我要在纽约成立独立外交家。那个时候，只有我，我和我的妻子准备搬去纽约他说道，“为什么你不来看看我在纽约的同事们呢？”结果是他为一家叫？如果!的创新公司工作。你们中的有些人可能听说过。于是一件事引向了另一件事，我最后在纽约的？如果！公司工作，当我开始独立外交家的时候。看到？如果！为箭牌发明了一种新的口香糖口味或者可乐的新口味实际上帮助我想到新的外交策略，为科索沃为西部撒哈拉。我开始意识到有很多不同的方式来做外交，外交，就好像做生意，是个解决问题的经营，虽然在外交中不存在创新这个词；这一切都是零和游戏以及现实政治以及存在了几个世纪的元老型机构和他们一直处理事情的方式。
en:There&#39;s a bit of randomness here toobecause, when I was beginning Independent Diplomat,I went to a party in the House of Lords,which is a ridiculous place,but I was holding my drink like this, and I bumped intothis guy who was standing behind me.And we started talking, and he said —I told him what I was doing,and I told him rather grandlyI was going to establish Independent Diplomat in New York.At that time there was just me —and me and my wife were moving back to New York.And he said, &quot;Why don&#39;t you see my colleagues in New York?&quot;And it turned outhe worked for an innovation company called ?What If!,which some of you have probably heard of.And one thing led to another,and I ended up having a deskin ?What If! in New York,when I started Independent Diplomat.And watching ?What If!develop new flavors of chewing gum for Wrigleyor new flavors for Cokeactually helped me innovatenew strategies for the Kosovarsand for the Saharawis of the Western Sahara.And I began to realize that there are different ways of doing diplomacy —that diplomacy, like business,is a business of solving problems,and yet the word innovation doesn&#39;t exist in diplomacy;it&#39;s all zero sum games and realpolitikand ancient institutions that have been there for generationsand do things the same way they&#39;ve always done things.
时间：13:50
zh-cn:独立外交家，今天看来，尝试将我在？如果！学到的一些东西整合起来。我们都在一间办公室，同办公室内的其他人大吵大嚷。我们都在小型笔记本上工作，试着用移动桌子来改变我们的思维方式。我们用天真的专家们他们可能对我们面对的国家一无所知，但是他们可能知道一些其他的事情尝试将新的想法注入到问题解决中这正是我们尝试传达给客户的。这并不简单，因为我们的客户，按定义来说，都在外交上困难重重
en:And Independent Diplomat, today,tries to incorporate some of the things I learned at ?What If!.We all sit in one office and shout at each other across the office.We all work on little laptops and try to move desks to change the way we think.And we use naive expertswho may know nothing about the countries we&#39;re dealing with,but may know something about something elseto try to inject new thinkinginto the problemsthat we try to address for our clients.It&#39;s not easy, because our clients, by definition,are having a difficult time, diplomatically.
时间：14:21
zh-cn:我不知道，从中的一些经验教训，个人的，政治上的—从某种意义上说，都是同样的。从个人角度上说，就是从悬崖上摔下去这实际上是一件好事，我向你们推荐。在你的人生中这么做一次实际上挺好只是将一切舍弃再跳跃。第二件事是关于今天这个世界的一个更大的教训。独立外交家是趋势的一部分它正在世界各地兴起，势不可挡，世界正在瓦解。国家跟它以往的意义相比，已经少了很多，国家的权利也在下降。那意味着其他东西的权利在上升。那些是被称为非国家的东西。它们可能是大公司，它们可能是黑手党，它们可能是好的非营利性组织，它们可能是任何东西，任何数量的东西。我们生活在一个更加复杂更加支离破碎的世界中。如果政府缺乏影响问题的能力从而影响到在这个世界上的我们，那么意味着，接下来谁将来面对它们，谁来担负起更大的责任来面对它们？我们。如果它们做不了，谁将去解决？我们没有选择，只能接受现实。
en:There are, I don&#39;t know,some lessons from all of this,personal and political —and in a way, they&#39;re the same thing.The personal oneis falling off a cliffis actually a good thing, and I recommend it.And it&#39;s a good thing to do at least once in your lifejust to tear everything up and jump.The second thing is a bigger lesson about the world today.Independent Diplomat is part of a trendwhich is emerging and evident across the world,which is that the world is fragmenting.States mean less than they used to,and the power of the state is declining.That means the power of others things is rising.Those other things are called non-state actors.They may be corporations,they may be mafiosi, they may be nice NGOs,they may anything,any number of things.We are living in a more complicated and fragmented world.If governments are less ableto affect the problemsthat affect us in the world,then that means, who is left to deal with them,who has to take greater responsibility to deal with them?Us.If they can&#39;t do it, who&#39;s left to deal with it?We have no choice but to embrace that reality.
时间：15:38
zh-cn:那就是这些将不能再被说成是足够好的，国际关系或者说全球大事，或者是索马里的混乱，又或者是在缅甸发生的事情都跟你没有关系，你可以把这些交给政府来处理。我能够将你们中的任何一个人用六度分离法同索马里的青年保卫兵联系起来。待会儿再问我怎么样，但是如果你吃鱼，很有趣的是，那就是一种联系我们都紧密地联系在一起这不仅仅是汤姆 弗莱德曼，这实际上可以通过一个又一个的案件证实。那意味着，除了要你们的政治家们处理事情，你们得自己处理事情。独立外交家算是这样的一个例子不严密的例子。
en:What this means isit&#39;s no longer good enoughto say that international relations, or global affairs,or chaos in Somalia,or what&#39;s going on in Burma is none of your business,and that you can leave it to governments to get on with.I can connect any one of youby six degrees of separationto the Al-Shabaab militia in Somalia.Ask me how later, particularly if you eat fish, interestingly enough,but that connection is there.We are all intimately connected.And this isn&#39;t just Tom Friedman,it&#39;s actually provable in case after case after case.What that means is, instead of asking your politicians to do things,you have to look to yourself to do things.And Independent Diplomat is a kind of example of thisin a sort of loose way.
时间：16:24
zh-cn:没有完美的例子，但是有这样一个例子：世界运行的方式正在改变我过去工作过的地方也在改变，联合国安理会也在改变。联合国成立于一九四五年。联合国宪章基本上适用于阻止国家间的冲突—利益冲突今天，联合国安理会百分之八十的日程都是国内的冲突，牵扯到非执政党—游击队，分离主义分子，恐怖分子，如果你们想这么称呼他们，他们是非政府的，非正式国家的人们。那就是现今这个世界的状况。当我意识到这一点，当我回顾我在安理会的时光科索沃所发生的事情，我意识到通常那些最直接受我们在安理会所作的决定的影响的人们却不在那里，却没有受到邀请在安理会发表他们的观点，我认为，这是不对的。我们应该修正这个。
en:There aren&#39;t neat examples, but one example is this:the way the world is changingis embodied in what&#39;s going on at the place I used to work —the U.N. Security Council.The U.N. was established in 1945.Its charter is basically designedto stop conflicts between states —interstate conflict.Today, 80 percent of the agendaof the U.N. Security Councilis about conflicts within states,involving non-state parties —guerillas, separatists,terrorists, if you want to call them that,people who are not normal governments, who are not normal states.That is the state of the world today.When I realized this,and when I look back on my time at the Security Counciland what happened with the Kosovars,and I realize that oftenthe people who were most directly affectedby what we were doing in the Security Councilweren&#39;t actually there, weren&#39;t actually invitedto give their views to the Security Council,I thought, this is wrong.Something&#39;s got to be done about this.
时间：17:21
zh-cn:所以，我开始了传统的方式。我和我在独立外交家的同事们走访了联合国安理会我们拜访了七十个联合国会员国—哈萨克人，埃塞俄比亚人，以色列人—你可以一一列举，我们拜访了他们—联合国秘书长，他们所有的人，都说，&quot;这不对你不跟那些直接有关系的人们探讨是很糟的。你应该建立一个系统你可以真正邀请科索沃人前来告诉你他们是怎么想的。这使得你告诉我—你可以告诉他们你是怎么想的。它太棒了。你们可以互换。你可以将这些人的观点整合进你的决定中，这样你的决定变得最有效，最耐用。“完美的逻辑，你可能这么想。我说，这个想法太棒了。很明显的，任何人都能做到。当然，每个人都懂了。每个人都说，”对，当然得，你绝对正确。六个月后回来吧。“当然，什么都没有发生。没有人做任何事情安理会还是老样子今天做事的方式同以往的方式一模一样，同我十年前在那里的时候一样
en:So I started off in a traditional mode.Me and my colleagues at Independent Diplomatwent around the U.N. Security Council.We went around 70 U.N. member states —the Kazaks, the Ethiopians, the Israelis —you name them, we went to see them —the secretary general, all of them,and said, &quot;This is all wrong.This is terrible that you don&#39;t consult these people who are actually affected.You&#39;ve got to institutionalize a systemwhere you actually invite the Kosovarsto come and tell you what they think.This will allow you to tell me — you can tell them what you think.It&#39;ll be great. You can have an exchange.You can actually incorporate these people&#39;s views into your decisions,which means your decisions will be more effective and durable.&quot;Super-logical, you would think.I mean, incredibly logical. So obvious, anybody could get it.And of course, everybody got it. Everybody went, &quot;Yes, of course, you&#39;re absolutely right.Come back to usin maybe six months.&quot;And of course, nothing happened — nobody did anything.The Security Council does its businessin exactly the same way todaythat it did X number of years ago,when I was there 10 years ago.
时间：18:22
zh-cn:我们看着这次的失败，想着我们还能做些什么。我想到，如果我将我的余生用于游说于这些政府我会累死的。所以，接下来我们自己举办这些会议。现在，独立外交家正在筹备在联合国安理会和充满纠纷的党派之间的会议在安理会日程上的会议。我们带来了达尔富尔反政府组织，北塞普勒斯人和南塞普勒斯人，来自亚齐省的叛军，还有造成世界混乱冲突的一份长长的名单。我们打算将各党派带到纽约在一间安静的房屋做下来没有媒体的私下面谈同联合国的安理会的成员们好好谈谈他们想要什么，联合国的安理会成员们也来谈谈他们想要什么。这样一个真实的谈话，从来没有发生过的谈话。当然，描述这些，任何对政治有所了解的人都知道这相当相当的困难，我完全的赞同。失败的可能性非常非常高，但是并不是不可能发生如果我们尽力促使它发生。
en:So we looked at that observationof basically failureand thought, what can we do about it.And I thought, I&#39;m buggeredif I&#39;m going to spend the rest of my lifelobbying for these crummy governmentsto do what needs to be done.So what we&#39;re going to dois we&#39;re actually going to set up these meetings ourselves.So now, Independent Diplomatis in the process of setting up meetingsbetween the U.N. Security Counciland the parties to the disputesthat are on the agenda of the Security Council.So we will be bringingDarfuri rebel groups,the Northern Cypriots and the Southern Cypriots,rebels from Aceh,and awful long laundry listof chaotic conflicts around the world.And we will be trying to bring the parties to New Yorkto sit down in a quiet roomin a private setting with no pressand actually explain what they wantto the members of the U. N. Security Council,and for the members of the U.N. Security Councilto explain to them what they want.So there&#39;s actually a conversation,which has never before happened.And of course, describing all this,any of you who know politics will think this is incredibly difficult,and I entirely agree with you.The chances of failure are very high,but it certainly won&#39;t happenif we don&#39;t try to make it happen.
时间：19:43
zh-cn:我的政治观点完全改变了从我是一名外交家到今天的我，我认为结果是重要的，而不是过程，坦白的说，也不是科技。宣讲技术所有伊朗示威的Twittering成员现在正在德黑兰的政治监狱里，那里内贾德依旧掌权。在伊朗，科技不再传达政治变革。看看结果，你会对自己说，”我能对造成这样的结果做些什么吗？“这就是二十一世纪世界的政治。从某种方式上说，独立外交家呈现出了那些正在发生的我们身边的那些片断，那些改变。
en:And my politics has changed fundamentallyfrom when I was a diplomat to what I am today,and I think that outputs is what matters, not process,not technology, frankly, so much either.Preach technologyto all the Twittering members of all the Iranian demonstrationswho are now in political prison in Tehran,where Ahmadinejad remains in power.Technology has not delivered political change in Iran.You&#39;ve got to look at the outputs, and you got to say to yourself,&quot;What can I do to produce that particular output?&quot;That is the politics of the 21st century,and in a way, Independent Diplomatembodies that fragmentation, that change,that is happening to all of us.
时间：20:25
zh-cn:那就是我的故事。谢谢。
en:That&#39;s my story. Thanks.
