时间： 0:11
zh-cn:两年前，就在这儿，TED我宣布我们通过卡西尼探测器对土星的探测在一颗较小的土星卫星的南端，发现了一块异常温暖的地质运动活跃区域这颗卫星就是木卫二，请看图。在这张卡西尼号于2005年拍摄的图片中，我们第一次看到该区域。这是土卫二的南极地区。南极地区横布着著名的虎皮纹裂痕这是2008年晚些时候拍摄的图片我们又可以看到这个区域该区域有一半处于阴影中，因为此时南半球刚刚进入8月份并将逐渐进入冬季。
en:Two years ago here at TEDI reported that we had discoveredat Saturn, with the Cassini Spacecraft,an anomalously warm and geologically active regionat the southern tip of the small Saturnine moonEnceladus, seen here.This region seen here for the first timein the Cassini image taken in 2005. This is the south polar region,with the famous tiger-stripe fractures crossing the south pole.And seen just recently in late 2008,here is that region again,now half in darkness because the southern hemisphereis experiencing the onset of Augustand eventually winter.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:并且我还宣布了我们的一项令人兴奋的发现这项发现真是一生难求。这些高耸的喷射流是从我们之前看到的南极的裂痕区域喷发出来的。含有微小的冰晶一起喷发出来的还有水蒸汽以及简单的有机化合物，比如二氧化碳和甲烷而且两年前当时我说我们推测这些喷射流可能实际上是从充满液态水的地面凹陷处或者地表以下的腔室中喷射出来的间歇泉但是我们那时候无法确定。但是，那些结果显示该卫星内存在一个可能能够支持生命起源前化学物质或者生命本身的环境我们非常兴奋，所以在接下来的两年中我们对木卫二给予了更多的关注。
en:And I also reported that we&#39;d made this mind-blowing discovery —this once-in-a-lifetime discoveryof towering jetserupting from those fractures at the south pole,consisting of tiny water ice crystalsaccompanied by water vaporand simple organic compounds like carbon dioxide and methane.And at that time two years agoI mentioned that we were speculatingthat these jets might in fact be geysers,and erupting from pocketsor chambers of liquid water underneath the surface,but we weren&#39;t really sure.However, the implications of those results —of a possible environment within this moonthat could support prebiotic chemistry,and perhaps life itself —were so exciting that, in the intervening two years,we have focused more on Enceladus.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:我们操控卡西尼探测器飞经该卫星好几次。每次都离这些喷射流更贴近得以进入这些喷射流密度更高的区域这样一来，我们就取得了一些非常准确的成分测量数据。我们发现该卫星喷射出的有机化合物事实上比先前我们报道的要更加复杂它们不是氨基酸我们现在发现了丙烷和苯氢氰酸，以及甲醛等化合物而且，这些微小的冰晶看起来非常像是冰冻的盐水滴该发现表明不仅这些喷射流是从液态水凹坑里喷射出来的而且这些液态水还跟岩石有接触。这种情况下，就能产生保证维持生命的化学能以及化合物。
en:We&#39;ve flown the Cassini Spacecraftby this moon now several times,flying closer and deeper into these jets,into the denser regions of these jets,so that now we have come away with somevery precise compositional measurements.And we have foundthat the organic compounds coming from this moonare in fact more complex than we previously reported.While they&#39;re not amino acids,we&#39;re now finding things likepropane and benzene,hydrogen cyanide, and formaldehyde.And the tiny water crystals herenow look for all the worldlike they are frozen droplets of salty water,which is a discovery that suggeststhat not only do the jets come frompockets of liquid water,but that that liquid water is in contact with rock.And that is a circumstancethat could supply the chemical energyand the chemical compounds needed to sustain life.
时间： 2:30
zh-cn:因此，这些结果使我们深受鼓舞。我们比两年之前更加有信心，我们可能真的会在这个卫星的南极下面发现适合生命有机体存在的环境或者区域当然，那里是否存在生命有机体就是另外一个问题了这个问题只能等到将来发射的探测器再次造访土卫二时来解答，这些探测器将携带研究该问题的设备。但愿在不远的将来就能实现与此同时，我邀请大家跟我一起憧憬这样一个时刻：我们一起畅游于土星体系中并参观土卫二上的行星际间歇泉公园只因我们可以做到。
en:So we are very encouraged by these results.And we are much more confident now than we were two years agothat we might indeedhave on this moon, under the south pole,an environment or a zone that is hospitable to living organisms.Whether or not there are living organisms there, of course,is an entirely different matter.And that will have to await the arrival,back at Enceladus,of the spacecrafts, hopefully some time in the near future,specifically equipped to address that particular question.But in the meantime I invite you to imagine the daywhen we might journey to the Saturnine system,and visit the Enceladus interplanetary geyser park,just because we can.
时间： 3:14
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
