时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今天很荣幸与大家分享数字宇宙。它是为了让人类能真正看到我们在宇宙的何处。我想我们可以开始播放了。
en:It&#39;s a great honor todayto share with youThe Digital Universe,which was created for humanityto really see where we arein the universe.And so I think we can roll the video that we have.
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:【喜马拉雅山】
en:[The Himalayas.]
时间： 0:29
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:Carter Emmart（卡特·艾玛特）：我们看到水平地平线象征着无穷无尽的资源和无限的能力，由我们充分使用的未利用的资源。直到我们真的离开了地球，来到大气层之上看到地平线向后弯曲，我们才明白我们的地球处于一种极限状态。数字宇宙的地图集已经被制作，在过去的12年里并放在美国自然历史博物馆。我们保持了这个地图集，并建立一个项目将地图集合在一起，从各个不同的范围真正意义上地绘制宇宙。我们在这里看到的是围绕地球的卫星，以及地球在宇宙中的固定位置，正如我们所看到的。美国国家航空和宇宙航行局，12年前将此工作作为重建Hayden Planetarium（海登天文馆）的部分，让我们能与世界分享。
en:The flat horizon that we&#39;ve evolved withhas been a metaphor for theinfinite: unbounded resourcesand unlimited capacityfor disposal of waste.It wasn&#39;t until we reallyleft Earth,got above the atmosphereand had seen the horizonbend back on itself,that we could understand our planetas a limited condition.The Digital Universe Atlashas been builtat the American Museum of Natural Historyover the past 12 years.We maintain that,put that togetheras a projectto really chart the universeacross all scales.What we see here are satellites around the Earthand the Earth in proper registrationagainst the universe, as we see.NASA supported this work12 years agoas part of the rebuildingof the Hayden Planetariumso that we would share this with the world.
时间： 1:50
zh-cn:以数字宇宙作为空间的基础，来展示我们的产品 —我们主要的空间展示在这个穹顶内。但你们在这里看到的成果出自于现在的实习项目，是我们与Linkoping（林雪平）大学在瑞典共同主办的。我们有12个学生为此项目工作，作为他们的毕业项目。而最后的成果是这个叫做Uniview（宇宙观探）的软件和在一个叫SCISS的瑞典公司。这个软件允许交互式的使用。所以这个真实的飞行轨迹和我们这里看到的影片实际上是飞行的实况。我在我的笔记本电脑上捕捉到了这个实况，在一个叫做Earth Matters（地球事务）的咖啡馆里，在曼哈顿的下东部，也就是我生活的地方。它作为一个合作项目被完成了。是与鲁宾博物馆的喜马拉雅艺术合作来完成一个展览，展示比较宇宙学。
en:The Digital Universe is the basisof our space show productions that we do —our main space shows in the dome.But what you see hereis the result of, actually, internshipsthat we hosted with Linkoping Universityin Sweden.I&#39;ve had 12 students work on thisfor their graduate work,and the result has been this software called Univiewand a company called SCISS in Sweden.This softwareallows interactive use,so this actual flight pathand movie that we see herewas actually flown live.I captured this live from my laptopin a cafe called Earth Matterson the Lower East Side of Manhattan, where I live,and it was doneas a collaborative projectwith the Rubin Museum of Himalayan Artfor an exhibiton comparative cosmology.
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:正如我们逐渐迁出，我们从我们的行星逐渐看到并一直延伸到我们这里所看到的真正的星系，光时旅行，让你感觉到我们所处有多遥远。当我们离开，从那些遥远星系发出的光用了如此长的时间，本质上我们正在回到过去。我们回到非常早以前，我们最终能看见围绕我们存在的密闭空间 —也就是宇宙大爆炸后的余晖。这是威尔金森微波各向异性探测器的微波背景，正如我们看到的。我们将飞出此处，来看这一密闭空间。如果我们在此之外，其实是毫无意义的，因为这意味着在时间之前。但是，这就是我们可视宇宙的密闭空间。我们知道宇宙比我们所看见的要大。
en:And so as we move out,we see continuously from our planetall the way out into the realm of galaxies, as we see here,light-travel time, giving you a sense of how far away we are.As we move out,the light from these distant galaxieshave taken so long,we&#39;re essentially backing up into the past.We back so far upwe&#39;re finally seeing a containment around us —the afterglow of the Big Bang.This is the WMAPmicrowave backgroundthat we see.We&#39;ll fly outside it here, just to see this sort of containment.If we were outside this,it would almost be meaningless, in the sense as before time.But this our containment of the visible universe.We know the universe is bigger than that which we can see.
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:快速返回，我们这里看到的就是最初我们跳离的放射领域。但这些位置是我们所绘制的系外行星的最新位置。这里我们的太阳显然是在太阳系之内的。即将看到的是-你们即将迅速跳进此处，介乎几个数量级之间，来回到我们能看到太阳系的地方。这些轨迹是旅行者一号，旅行者二号，先驱者11号和先驱者10号，四个最先离开太阳系的宇宙飞船。离得更近点，到达地球。这是月球的轨迹，而现在我们看见的是地球。这个地图可以被更新。而且我们可以置入新的数据。
en:Coming back quickly,we see here the radio sphere that we jumped out of in the beginning,but these are positions,the latest positions of exoplanetsthat we&#39;ve mapped,and our sun here, obviously, with our own solar system.What you&#39;re going to see — we&#39;re going to have to jump in here pretty quicklybetween several orders of magnitudeto get down to where we see the solar system —these are the paths ofVoyager 1, Voyager 2, Pioneer 11 and Pioneer 10,the first four spacecraft to have left the solar system.Coming in closer,picking up Earth,orbit of the Moon, and we see the Earth.This map can be updated,and we can add in new data.
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:我知道Carolyn Porco（卡洛琳·波尔科）博士是摄影私人调查员，为Cassini（卡西尼）探测录工作。但是我们这里看到的是来自于卡西尼探测录复杂的轨道，以不同的颜色标记不同的飞行阶段，巧妙的展开。因此45次与最大的卫星-Titan（提坦）相遇，而它比水星还要大，将轨道划分为飞行阶段的不同部分。
en:I know Dr. Carolyn Porco is the camera P.I.for the Cassini mission.But here we see the complex trajectoryof the Cassini missioncolor coded for different mission phases,ingeniously developed so that45 encounters with the largest moon, Titan,which is larger that the planet Mercury,diverts the orbit into different parts of mission phase.
时间： 4:52
zh-cn:这个软件能让我们离得更近的看到其中的部分。这个软件能用互联网在宿舍之间连接。而这一软件的用户正在增长。并且我们还在连接其它的学生宿舍。还可以在宿舍与教室之间联网。事实上，我们分享的是宇宙的旅行，先与撒哈拉沙漠以南的地区的加纳天文馆，与此同时与哥伦比亚少数族群区新建立的图书馆以及位于柬埔寨一个高中。柬埔寨已经能从高中登录海登天文馆。
en:This software allows us to come closeand look at parts of this.This software can also be networked between domes.We have a growing user base of this,and we network domes.And we can network between domes and classrooms.We&#39;re actually sharing tours of the universewith the first sub-Saharanplanetarium in Ghanaas well asnew libraries that have been builtin the ghettos in Columbiaand a high schoolin Cambodia.And the Cambodians haveactually controlled the Hayden Planetarium from their high school.
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:这是周六拍摄的一张图像，它由水资源监测太空器拍摄，和用Uniview（宇宙观探）软件。所以你们看见的是地球的边缘。这是尼泊尔。这是，实际上，这里是拉萨的谷地，就在西藏。但是我们可以看到薄雾来自于恒河谷地的火源等等向下刮向印度。这是尼泊尔和西藏。
en:This is an image from Saturday,photographed by the Aqua satellite, but through the Uniview software.So you&#39;re seeing the edge of the Earth.This is Nepal.This is, in fact, right here is the valley of Lhasa,right here in Tibet.But we can see the hazefrom fires and so forth in the Ganges valleydown below in India.This is Nepal and Tibet.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:就到这里。我想说，在我们所居住的这个美丽的世界 —这里我们看见一点雪而你们中的一些人出来的时候可能就得勇敢点。我只想说世界现在需要的是在某种意义上，能够在全局下现在审视我们自己以及广义上了解什么是家。因为我们的家正是宇宙，而我们本质上就是宇宙。我们将宇宙带到我们身边。然后能够看我们所处何处从广义上，从各个不同的角度我想，这帮助我们理解在宇宙中我们身处何处以及我们是谁
en:And just in closing,I&#39;d just like to say this beautiful world that we live on —here we see a bit of the snowthat some of you may have had to brave in coming out —so I&#39;d like to just saythat what the world needs nowis a sense of being able tolook at ourselves in this much larger condition nowand a much larger sense of what home is.Because our home is the universe,and we are the universe, essentially.We carry that in us.And to be able to see our contextin this larger sense at all scaleshelps us all, I think, in understandingwhere we are and who we are in the universe.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:41
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
