时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们就在那儿。灵魂和躯体挤在一个德克萨斯州的教堂里，那是我们人生最后一晚。就像现在我们这个房间，只不过那里都是吱呀响的木长凳，挂着破烂的红布条，风琴在我的左边，唱诗班在我的背后，还有个洗礼池建在后面的墙上。总之就像这个房间。同样强烈的悬疑之感，同样深刻的对救赎的渴望，掌心里同样酸涩的汗水，后排还有同样一帮心不在焉的人。
en:There we were,souls and bodies packedinto a Texas churchon the last night of our lives.Packed into a room just like this,but with creaky wooden pewsdraped in worn-down red fabric,with an organ to my leftand a choir at my backand a baptism poolbuilt into the wall behind them.A room like this, nonetheless.With the same great feelings of suspense,the same deep hopes for salvation,the same sweat in the palmsand the same peoplein the back not paying attention.
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:那是1999年的12月31日，那一晚，就我所知，基督复临人间，世界将临末日。那时我12岁，到了要负责任的年龄。我发觉耶稣这时候回来是如此不公平，我正要为我之前所做的一切负责。但当我停止抱怨的时候，我想我最好赶紧把家里收拾整齐了。
en:This was December 31, 1999,the night of the Second Coming of Christ,and the end of the world as I knew it.I had turned 12 that yearand had reached the age of accountability.And once I stopped complainingabout how unfair it wasthat Jesus would returnas soon as I had to be accountablefor all that I had done,I figured I had better getmy house in order very quickly.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:我尽可能多去教堂。我害怕四周一片寂静，就像人害怕噪声一样，只为反复地确认上帝没有耍我，提早回来却把我给落下了。
en:So I went to church as often as I could.I listened for silence as anxiouslyas one might listen for noise,trying to be sure that the Lordhadn&#39;t pulled a fast one on meand decided to come back early.
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:但是万一他真的早来了，我也有个后备方案，是从风靡一时的《末日迷踪》书里读到的。我在文字中看到，假如过了午夜的狂欢，我却没有被带走，我还有一次机会。我只需要不被冠以异教徒之名，击败恶魔，克服瘟疫，还要打倒反基督者。这会相当难——
en:And just in case he did,I built a backup plan,by reading the &quot;Left Behind&quot; booksthat were all the rage at the time.And I found in their pagesthat if I was not takenin the rapture at midnight,I had another shot.All I had to do was avoidtaking the mark of the beast,fight off demons, plaguesand the Antichrist himself.It would be hard —
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:但是我相信自己能做到。
en:but I knew I could do it.
时间： 2:03
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:但是做准备的时间早过了。已经是晚上11:50。我们还剩10分钟，牧师让我们从长凳上起身，走到下面的圣坛，因为他想让我们在午夜来临的一刻一起祈祷。于是会众分成几批，到了指定位置。唱诗班还在小舞台上，教堂执事和他们的妻子——其实我更喜欢叫他们“浸会资产阶级”
en:But planning time was over now.It was 11:50pm.We had 10 minutes left,and my pastor called usout of the pews and down to the altarbecause he wanted to be prayingwhen midnight struck.So every faction of the congregationtook its place.The choir stayed in the choir stand,the deacons and their wives —or the Baptist Bourgeoisieas I like to call them —
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:在圣坛前的第一排坐下。你们知道，在美国，即使是基督复临之夜都有VIP专座的。
en:took first position in front of the altar.You see, in America,even the Second Coming of Christhas a VIP section.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:而就在浸会资产阶级后面的，是老一辈的人——这些男人女人年轻的背脊，在东德州的棉花田里被炽烈的阳光晒弯了，沟壑纵横的面庞被灼成了高贵的棕色，就像东德州的陶土一样，他们对东德州外的生活和世界那些美好的幻想和梦境，有时比他们的背脊更加残破。
en:And right behind the Baptist Bourgeoisiewere the elderly —these men and women whose young backshad been bent under hot sunsin the cotton fields of East Texas,and whose skin seemed to be burnta creaseless noble brown,just like the clay of East Texas,and whose hopes and dreamsfor what life might becomeoutside of East Texashad sometimes been bent and brokeneven further than their backs.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:是的——这些男人女人，才是我的偶像、明星。他们为了这一刻等了一辈子，就像他们中世纪的先辈们渴盼世界末日一样，就像我的祖母渴盼奥普拉脱口秀一样，每天四点在第八频道准时播出。当她走向圣坛时，我悄悄溜到她身后，因为我非常确信，我的祖母是要上天堂的。我想，假如我在这次祷告中紧紧握住她的手，我可能会跟她一起走。
en:Yes, these men and womenwere the stars of the show for me.They had waited their whole livesfor this moment,just as their medieval predecessorshad longed for the end of the world,and just as my grandmotherwaited for the Oprah Winfrey Showto come on Channel 8every day at 4 o&#39;clock.And as she made her way to the altar,I snuck right in behind her,because I knew for surethat my grandmother was going to heaven.And I thought that if I held onto her hand during this prayer,I might go right on with her.
时间： 3:43
zh-cn:于是我抓紧了，我合上双眼，倾听，等待。祷告声更大了。回应祷告声的叫喊同样的更大了。风琴响起，与挽歌的声音交织起来。热浪席卷，手心的汗水更加酸涩。我的手攥得更紧了，我不想被上帝遗弃。我的眼睛闭得更紧了，我不想看到精华被带走，糟粕被落下。突然一个声音在头顶回响：“阿门。”
en:So I held onand I closed my eyesto listen,to wait.And the prayers got louder.And the shouts of responseto the call of the prayerwent up higher even still.And the organ rolled on into add the dirge.And the heat came on to add to the sweat.And my hand gripped firmer,so I wouldn&#39;t be the oneleft in the field.My eyes clenched tighterso I wouldn&#39;t see the wheatbeing separated from the chaff.And then a voice rang out above us:&quot;Amen.&quot;
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:结束了。我看看钟。已经过了午夜。我看着长辈信徒们，他们的救世主没来，他们太骄傲，以至于没有展现哪怕一丁点失落，他们笃信得太深、太久，现在再怀疑太迟了。但是我为他们感到气愤。他们被愚弄了，被哄骗了，被迷惑了，然而我还跟着他们一起受骗。我做了他们做的祷告，我努力地抵抗心中的欲望。我不是一次，而是两次，一头栽到那个让人感冒的洗礼池里。我曾相信过。现在怎么办？
en:It was over.I looked at the clock.It was after midnight.I looked at the elder believerswhose savior had not come,who were too proud to showany signs of disappointment,who had believed too much and for too longto start doubting now.But I was upset on their behalf.They had been duped,hoodwinked, bamboozled,and I had gone right along with them.I had prayed their prayers,I had yielded not to temptationas best I could.I had dipped my head not once, but twicein that snot-inducing baptism pool.I had believed.Now what?
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:我回家打开电视，刚好赶上彼得·詹宁斯宣布新千年，全世界都在欢庆新年。我突然发觉，无论怎么想都很奇怪，耶稣要一次又一次复临人间，只是因为各地的时区不一样。
en:I got home just in timeto turn on the televisionand watch Peter Jenningsannounce the new millenniumas it rolled in around the world.It struck me that it would havebeen strange anyway,for Jesus to come back again and againbased on the different time zones.
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:26
zh-cn:这让我心里感觉更加难受了，挺受伤的，真的。但就在那一夜，我没有停止相信。我只是相信了另一件事：就是“不相信也是可能的”。很可能我所知的答案都是错的，很可能问题本身就是错的。现在，曾经耸立着的信仰的山峰，有一股泉水一直流到山脚，一股质疑的清泉，它注定会成为大江大河。
en:And this made me feeleven more ridiculous —hurt, really.But there on that night,I did not stop believing.I just believed a new thing:that it was possible not to believe.It was possible the answersI had were wrong,that the questions themselves were wrong.And now, where there was oncea mountain of certitude,there was, running right downto its foundation,a spring of doubt,a spring that promised rivers.
时间： 5:59
zh-cn:我人生中所有的戏剧性故事，都可以追溯回教堂里那一晚，那时我的救世主没有到来；我无比确信的事物，如果不叫作“谎言”的话，至少也不是什么真理。虽然你们大部分人迎接千禧年的方式大不相同，我相信你们在这里，就是因为你们有些人做过与我一样的事情，新世纪的开端之后的事，我的母亲去世，父亲离家出走之后的事，我的救世主没来之后的事。我伸出双手，苦苦搜寻一丝能够相信的东西。
en:I can trace the whole drama of my lifeback to that night in that churchwhen my savior did not come for me;when the thing I believed most certainlyturned out to be, if not a lie,then not quite the truth.And even though most of youprepared for Y2K in a very different way,I&#39;m convinced that you are herebecause some part of you has donethe same thing that I have donesince the dawn of this new century,since my mother leftand my father stayed awayand my Lord refused to come.And I held out my hand,reaching for something to believe in.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:当我18岁时到耶鲁大学时，我搜寻着，我相信从德州的小镇一路走来，我有机会摆脱一切我所历经的困苦与艰难，摆脱那些破碎的梦想、残疾的躯体。但当我在寒假回到家乡，我的头被摁在地上，双手被紧缚在身后，强盗的手枪顶着我的脑袋，我就知道，即使是最好的教育也救不了我。
en:I held on when I arrived at Yale at 18,with the faith that my journeyfrom Oak Cliff, Texaswas a chance to leave behindall the challenges I had known,the broken dreamsand broken bodies I had seen.But when I found myself back homeone winter break,with my face planted in the floor,my hands tied behind my backand a burglar&#39;s gun pressed to my head,I knew that even the best educationcouldn&#39;t save me.
时间： 7:11
zh-cn:当我2008年到雷曼兄弟实习时，我也搜寻着。
en:I held on when I showed upat Lehman Brothersas an intern in 2008.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:充满希望——
en:So hopeful —
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:我兴奋地打电话给家人，说我们永远不会再贫穷了。
en:that I called home to inform my familythat we&#39;d never be poor again.
时间： 7:30
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:33
zh-cn:但当我眼睁睁看着这座金融的圣殿就在我眼前化作断壁残垣，我就知道，即使是最好的工作也救不了我。
en:But as I witnessed this temple of financecome crashing down before my eyes,I knew that even the best jobcouldn&#39;t save me.
时间： 7:41
zh-cn:当我到华盛顿特区做一个年轻记者时，我搜寻着，我听见伊利诺伊州的一个声音：（指奥巴马竞选演说）“时间已经过了太久，”“但就在这次选举，美国将迎来变革。”但当议会工作彻底停滞，国家几乎分崩离析，所谓希望和变革都变成了残酷的冷笑话，我就知道，即使是政治的新生也救不了我。
en:I held on when I showed upin Washington DC as a young staffer,who had heard a voicecall out from Illinois,saying, &quot;It&#39;s been a long time coming,but in this election, changehas come to America.&quot;But as the Congress ground to a haltand the country ripped at the seamsand hope and changebegan to feel like a cruel joke,I knew that eventhe political second comingcould not save me.
时间： 8:08
zh-cn:我在美国梦的圣坛前虔诚地跪拜着，向时代的伟人们祈祷，祈求成功，祈求金钱，祈求权势。但是每一次，午夜的钟声响起，我睁开双眼，看见这些神话全都死去了。
en:I had knelt faithfully at the altarof the American Dream,praying to the gods of my timeof success,and money,and power.But over and over again,midnight struck, and I opened my eyesto see that all of these gods were dead.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:从这片坟墓里，我再一次开始搜寻，不是因为我很勇敢，而是因为我知道，我如果没有信仰，我就会死。
en:And from that graveyard,I began the search once more,not because I was brave,but because I knewthat I would either believeor I would die.
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:所以我又到了另一处圣地去朝拜，哈佛商学院——
en:So I took a pilgrimageto yet another mecca,Harvard Business School —
时间： 8:44
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:47
zh-cn:这一次，我知道我不能简单地接受学院所给予的救赎。不，我知道我有更多事要做。
en:this time, knowing that I could notsimply accept the salvationthat it claimed to offer.No, I knew there&#39;d be more work to do.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:一切始于拥挤的派对上的黑暗角落，那是在麻省残酷的初冬的一个深夜，我和三个朋友问了一个问题，一些有真正追求的年轻人长久以来都会问：“我们出去自驾游怎样？”
en:The work began in the dark cornerof a crowded party,in the late night of an early,miserable Cambridge winter,when three friends and I asked a questionthat young folks searchingfor something real have askedfor a very long time:&quot;What if we took a road trip?&quot;
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 9:17
zh-cn:我们不知道要去哪儿、怎么去，但我们知道我们必须启程。因为我们一生都渴求的，就像杰克·凯鲁亚克写的：“潜入无尽的暗夜，消失在遥远的天际。”出去看看全国各地的人都在干些什么。所以即使有反对的声音，说我们冒了太大的险，也没什么收获，我们还是启程了。
en:We didn&#39;t know where&#39;d we goor how we&#39;d get there,but we knew we had to do it.Because all our lives we yearned,as Jack Kerouac wrote,to &quot;sneak out into the nightand disappear somewhere,&quot;and go find out what everybody was doingall over the country.So even though there wereother voices who saidthat the risk was too greatand the proof too thin,we went on anyhow.
时间： 9:41
zh-cn:我们在2013年夏天跨美国旅行了13000公里，走过蒙大拿的奶牛牧场，走过底特律的废弃都市，走过新奥尔良的沼泽湿地，我们在那找到一些人，为他们打工，他们创办的小生意，把实现目标作为底线。在“资本主义的西点军校”学习过后，我们发觉这个想法简直是革命性的。
en:We went on 8,000 miles across Americain the summer of 2013,through the cow pastures of Montana,through the desolation of Detroit,through the swamps of New Orleans,where we found and workedwith men and womenwho were building small businessesthat made purpose their bottom line.And having been trainedat the West Point of capitalism,this struck us as a revolutionary idea.
时间：10:05
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:06
zh-cn:这个想法在传播，最终成长为一个非营利组织，名叫“工管硕士走遍美国”，这也是我今天能够站在台上的主要原因。它能传播是因为我们在这代人中发现了强烈的渴望，渴望实现目标、人生价值。它能传播是因为我们在美国的旮旯角落里，发现了无数的创业者，他们创造工作岗位、改变他人生命，他们还需要一点点帮助。
en:And this idea spread,growing into a nonprofitcalled MBAs Across America,a movement that landed me hereon this stage today.It spread because we founda great hunger in our generationfor purpose, for meaning.It spread because we foundcountless entrepreneursin the nooks and crannies of Americawho were creating jobs and changing livesand who needed a little help.
时间：10:36
zh-cn:但是说实话，它能够传播，也因为我拼命地去传播。为了传播这福音，没有什么我不去做的事，为了让更多人相信，我们可以治愈这个破碎的国家的伤口，就依靠一个个小型企业。但是就是这个福音传道的过程，引导我获得一个不太一样的福音，今天我就要与大家一起分享。
en:But if I&#39;m being honest, it also spreadbecause I fought to spread it.There was no lengthto which I would not goto preach this gospel,to get more people to believethat we could bind the woundsof a broken country,one social business at a time.But it was this journey of evangelismthat led me to the rather different gospelthat I&#39;ve come to share with you today.
时间：11:04
zh-cn:大概在一年前的一个晚上开始，我们在纽约的自然科学博物馆，参加哈佛商学院的校友晚宴。在一头鲸鱼的全尺寸模型底下，我与这个时代的巨擘并排而坐，他们歌颂着他们的同伴，还有他们的伟业。房间里满是自豪的气息，这些人名下的资产总额加起来超过了五千亿美金。我们俯看一切的造物，觉得这是善的。（《圣经》原文）
en:It began one evening almost a year agoat the Museum of Natural Historyin New York City,at a gala for alumniof Harvard Business School.Under a full-size replica of a whale,I sat with the titans of our timeas they celebrated their peersand their good deeds.There was pride in a roomwhere net worthand assets under managementsurpassed half a trillion dollars.We looked over all that we had made,and it was good.
时间：11:38
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:41
zh-cn:然而事情就这样发生了，两天之后，我去到纽约哈林区，我坐在一个城市农场里，那里曾是一片废弃停车场，听一个名叫托尼的人讲一些孩子的事，他们每天都会到那儿去。他们所有人都在贫困线以下。很多人把自己一切的财物都装在背包里，生怕在收容所被别人偷走了。有些人来到托尼的农场，名字叫做“哈林成长”，来获取他们每天唯一的一餐饭。托尼告诉我，他启动“哈林成长”靠的都是自己的养老金，他当了20年的出租车司机。他说他没给自己留一分钱，因为虽然项目算是成功，但资源还是极其匮乏。他说，他所能找到的任何帮助，他都会接受。而我就是去帮助他的。
en:But it just so happened,two days later,I had to travel up the road to Harlem,where I found myselfsitting in an urban farmthat had once been a vacant lot,listening to a man named Tonytell me of the kidsthat showed up there every day.All of them lived below the poverty line.Many of them carriedall of their belongings in a backpackto avoid losing themin a homeless shelter.Some of them came to Tony&#39;s program,called Harlem Grown,to get the only meal they had each day.Tony told me that he started Harlem Grownwith money from his pension,after 20 years as a cab driver.He told me that he didn&#39;t givehimself a salary,because despite success,the program struggled for resources.He told me that he would take any helpthat he could get.And I was there as that help.
时间：12:43
zh-cn:但当我离开托尼时，我心中一阵刺痛，泪水沾湿眼角。我感受到了启迪的重担，一天晚上我可以坐在房间里，与价值五千亿美金的几百人畅谈美好世界，然而两天后的另一个房间里，只有50个街区的距离，一个没有薪水的男人要为孩子提供每天唯一的一餐饭。
en:But as I left Tony,I felt the sting and salt of tearswelling up in my eyes.I felt the weight of revelationthat I could sit in one room on one night,where a few hundred peoplehad half a trillion dollars,and another room, two days later,just 50 blocks up the road,where a man was going without a salaryto get a child her only meal of the day.
时间：13:15
zh-cn:然而不是这种刺眼的社会不平等令我热泪盈眶，也并不是这些饥饿、无家可归的孩子们，也不是对于1%的人的怒火，或是对99%的人的怜悯。不，我心中不能平静是因为我终于意识到，这个国家需要一次彻底变革，而我只是小修小补而已。我意识到，我的故事代表了一群人，人们希望他们能够自力更生，即使他们一穷二白；我的组织所代表的，是一切基础的、系统的帮助，却从未到达哈林区，或是阿巴拉契亚山区和新奥尔良下九区；我的呐喊代表了一些声音，那些听起来毫无内涵、未加修饰、格格不入的声音。
en:And it wasn&#39;t the glaring inequalitythat made me want to cry,it wasn&#39;t the thought of hungry,homeless kids,it wasn&#39;t rage toward the one percentor pity toward the 99.No, I was disturbedbecause I had finally realizedthat I was the dialysisfor a country that neededa kidney transplant.I realized that my storystood in for all thosewho were expected to pickthemselves up by their bootstraps,even if they didn&#39;t have any boots;that my organization stood infor all the structural, systemic helpthat never went to Harlemor Appalachia or the Lower 9th Ward;that my voice stood infor all those voicesthat seemed too unlearned,too unwashed, too unaccommodated.
时间：14:06
zh-cn:而这种羞耻感，这种羞耻感洗刷了我，就像那时坐在电视机前的羞耻感，看彼得·詹宁斯宣布新千年，一遍，一遍，又一遍。我被愚弄了，被哄骗了，被迷惑了，但是这次，虚伪的救世主却是我自己。
en:And the shame of that,that shame washed over melike the shame of sittingin front of the television,watching Peter Jenningsannounce the new millenniumagainand againand again.I had been duped,hoodwinked,bamboozled.But this time, the false savior was me.
时间：14:30
zh-cn:你们知道，我从那个圣坛一路走来，那个晚上我觉得世界要毁灭了，从一个使用各种方言的小镇走来，以为苦难是上帝给人类的恩赐，还把它当作信条，当作永恒的真理。是的，我的旅程太长了，以至于我一路兜回了原点。
en:You see, I&#39;ve come a long way from that altaron the night I thoughtthe world would end,from a world where people spoke in tonguesand saw sufferingas a necessary act of Godand took a text to be infallible truth.Yes, I&#39;ve come so farthat I&#39;m right back where I started.
时间：14:51
zh-cn:因为我们不能简单概括，说这个时代没有信仰。不，我们与以往任何时候一样都在相信一些东西。有些人可能会相信布琳·布朗或是托尼·罗宾斯的预言。我们可能会相信《纽约客》或是《哈佛商业评论》的箴言。我们可能无比的相信我们在TED的教堂里所崇拜的事物，但我们极度地想得要信仰，我们需要信仰。我们模仿魅力四射的领导者的言谈举止，他们承诺解决人类一切问题。我们觉得苦难是资本主义“上帝”给我们的恩赐，我们把科技发展当作信条，当作永恒的真理。但是我们从来没意识到我们付出的人道的代价，我们不会质疑一块砖头，因为我们害怕整栋大楼都会倒塌。
en:Because it simply is not true to saythat we live in an age of disbelief —no, we believe today just as muchas any time that came before.Some of us may believein the prophecy of Brené Brownor Tony Robbins.We may believe in the bibleof The New Yorkeror the Harvard Business Review.We may believe most deeplywhen we worship right hereat the church of TED,but we desperately want to believe,we need to believe.We speak in the tonguesof charismatic leadersthat promise to solve all our problems.We see suffering as a necessary actof the capitalism that is our god,we take the text of technological progressto be infallible truth.And we hardly realizethe human price we paywhen we fail to question one brick,because we fear it might shakeour whole foundation.
时间：15:44
zh-cn:但如果你对我们习以为常的这些违背天理的事情感到心有不安，质疑的时候就一定来临了。所以我传布的福音不是什么突破、创新，或是可持续发展。我甚至没有什么信仰的福音要与大家分享。我唯有的，就是质疑的福音。质疑的福音不是让你停止相信，它请求你相信一个新东西：“不相信也是可能的。”很可能我们所知的答案都是错的，很可能问题本身就是错的。是的，质疑的福音可能意味着，我们的存在，在这个舞台上，在这个房间里，全都错了。因为它引出了一个问题：“为什么？”我们手上拥有如此强大的力量，为什么还有人在水深火热之中？
en:But if you are disturbedby the unconscionable thingsthat we have come to accept,then it must be questioning time.So I have not a gospelof disruption or innovationor a triple bottom line.I do not have a gospel of faithto share with you today, in fact.I have and I offer a gospel of doubt.The gospel of doubt does not askthat you stop believing,it asks that you believe a new thing:that it is possible not to believe.It is possible the answerswe have are wrong,it is possible the questionsthemselves are wrong.Yes, the gospel of doubt meansthat it is possible that we,on this stage, in this room,are wrong.Because it raises the question, &quot;Why?&quot;With all the powerthat we hold in our hands,why are people still suffering so bad?
时间：16:44
zh-cn:这种质疑让我做出了一个决定，我创立的组织，“工管硕士走遍美国”，要停止运营了。我们已经解散了员工，关门大吉了，我们把这种模式向所有人开放，只要他们觉得自己有能力去做，就不需经过我们的批准。这种质疑迫使我摘掉别人扣在我头上的“救世主”的帽子，因为我们的人生太短，几率太低，根本等不到基督复临，事实就是，这世上是没有奇迹的。
en:This doubt leads me to sharethat we are putting my organization,MBAs Across America,out of business.We have shed our staffand closed our doorsand we will share our model freelywith anyone who seestheir power to do this workwithout waiting for our permission.This doubt compels meto renounce the role of saviorthat some have placed on me,because our time is too shortand our odds are too longto wait for second comings,when the truth is thatthere will be no miracles here.
时间：17:17
zh-cn:而这种质疑，它驱动着我，它给予我希望，当困难即将压垮我们，当命运的道路看似要将我们引入歧途，当我们的救世主无法治愈创伤，并不是我们盲目的信仰，而是我们简单的质疑，会向我们生命和世界的黑暗中，洒下一点点光明。让我们轻声细语，呐喊也行，或是简单的说，非常简单的说：“一定，还有另一条路。”
en:And this doubt, it fuels me,it gives me hopethat when our troubles overwhelm us,when the paths laid out for usseem to lead to our demise,when our healers bringno comfort to our wounds,it will not be our blind faith —no, it will be our humble doubtthat shines a little lightinto the darkness of our livesand of our worldand lets us raise our voice to whisperor to shoutor to say simply,very simply,&quot;There must be another way.&quot;
时间：17:56
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:57
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
