时间： 0:12
zh-cn:首先，我是一位书呆子。我吃有机食品，我是一位低碳生活者，我沉迷于机器人手术，而且我特别想建造绿色，但我是个多疑的人特别是对于这些好意的文章们，人们常常注重道德规范而缺少数据的支持以来告诉我如何去做这些事。所以我只能自己找寻答案。例如：这是邪恶的吗？我掉了一滴有机酸奶在我的桌面上，它来自当地的奶牛，然后我拿来一张纸巾，我想把它擦干净。但是我能用这个纸巾吗？（笑声）
en:First of all, I&#39;m a geek.I&#39;m an organic food-eating,carbon footprint-minimizing, robotic surgery geek.And I really want to build green,but I&#39;m very suspiciousof all of these well-meaning articles,people long on moral authorityand short on data,telling me how to do these kinds of things.And so I have to figure this out for myself.For example: Is this evil?I have dropped a blob of organic yogurtfrom happy self-actualized local cowson my counter top,and I grab a paper towel and I want to wipe it up.But can I use a paper towel? (Laughter)
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:这个答案能从内蕴能量中找到。这就是任何一张手纸或者水的内涵能源。而每次我使用纸巾，我会使用这么多能量和水。擦干净它，再把它扔掉。现在，如果我用棉布和他进行对比我能重复用上千次，我不需要花费那么多内蕴能量直到我需洗净这个酸奶抹布为止。现在我要说的是操作能量。如果我把抹布放入洗衣机，我需要能量和水去洗这个抹布，除非我用的是前置型高效洗衣机，而它只是看上去好一点儿。但是一个可回收的纸巾会怎么样特别是那些半张大小的？恩，现在一张纸巾看起来好多了。别想纸巾了。让我们看看海绵，我用一个海绵擦，然后用水冲洗，然后我用很少的能量和更多的水，除非你像我这样且你把手柄放在热水的一边但即使当你打开它的时候，你还是得使用更多的能量，更糟糕的是，你或许会让水流着直到变热为止以洗净你的抹布。现在我们不打赌了。
en:The answer to this can be found in embodied energy.This is the amount of energy that goes intoany paper towel or embodied water,and every time I use a paper towel,I am using this muchvirtual energy and water.Wipe it up, throw it away.Now, if I compare that to a cotton towelthat I can use a thousand times,I don&#39;t have a whole lot of embodied energyuntil I wash that yogurty towel.This is now operating energy.So if I throw my towel in the washing machine,I&#39;ve now put energy and waterback into that towel ...unless I use a front-loading, high-efficiency washing machine, (Laughter)and then it looks a little bit better.But what about a recycled paper towelthat comes in those little half sheets?Well, now a paper towel looks better.Screw the paper towels. Let&#39;s go to a sponge.I wipe it up with a sponge, and I put it under the running water,and I have a lot less energy and a lot more water.Unless you&#39;re like me and you leave the handlein the position of hot even when you turn it on,and then you start to use more energy.Or worse, you let it run until it&#39;s warmto rinse out your towel.And now all bets are off.
时间： 1:55
zh-cn:（笑)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:所以在这里要指出的是有时候你最不在意的事，比如你放手柄的位置，比起其他的事情会造成更大的影响特别是那些你试图去优化的事。现在想象一下一个人像我一样疯狂的去试图建造一个房子。（笑声）那正是我和我丈夫正在做的事。而我们想知道我们到底可以有多环保。而且那里有数以千计的文章来告诉我们怎么去做绿色的交换。而且他们就是告诉我们去优化一些边角小物从而忽略了眼前庞然大物。现在，平均每家需要消耗300千瓦时的内蕴能量。这些能量可以制造出，成千上万的纸巾。
en:So what this says is thatsometimes the things that you least expect —the position in which you put the handle —have a bigger effect than any of those other thingsthat you were trying to optimize.Now imagine someone as twisted as metrying to build a house.(Laughter)That&#39;s what my husband and I are doing right now.And so, we wanted to know, how green could we be?And there&#39;s a thousand and one articles out theretelling us how to make all these green trade-offs.And they are just as suspectin telling us to optimize these little things around the edgesand missing the elephant in the living room.Now, the average househas about 300 megawatt hoursof embodied energy in it;this is the energy it takes to make it —millions and millions of paper towels.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:我们想知道我怎么能做的更好。所以，就如同很多人一样，我们从普通的房子开始，同时我会向你们展示一个普通房顶的建设过程而且我们在底下做什么。第一，我们先消减一部分。它会消耗一些能量，但是如果你拆除它，你把它都拆了，你用一些，你可以回收一些能量。我们之后挖了一个大洞把雨水收集到水箱里以用来独立灌溉我们的花园。然后我们建造一个大型的太阳能收集板。现在，通过使用尘土飞扬的水泥你可以减免25%的能耗。我们之后做了一个框架。这个框架是用木头和合成材料作成的，所以很难收回这些能量，如果你用F.S.C. 验证的木材它们是可成为可持续性的能源。
en:We wanted to know how much better we could do.And so, like many people,we start with a house on a lot,and I&#39;m going to show you a typical construction on the topand what we&#39;re doing on the bottom.So first, we demolish it.It takes some energy, but if you deconstruct it —you take it all apart, you use the bits —you can get some of that energy back.We then dug a big holeto put in a rainwater catchment tankto take our yard water independent.And then we poured a big foundationfor passive solar.Now, you can reduce the embodied energyby about 25 percentby using high fly ash concrete.We then put in framing.And so this is framing — lumber,composite materials —and it&#39;s kind of hard to get the embodied energy out of that,but it can be a sustainable resourceif you use FSC-certified lumber.
时间： 3:33
zh-cn:我们之后发现一件惊奇的事。如果用铝制窗装饰我们的房屋，我们能双倍利用这能量。PVC比这好一点，但是还是没办法媲美我们选的木头。我们之后安装了电器、采暖通风与空调系统抽水马桶以及隔热设备。当下，喷射式泡沫是非常好的隔热材料，它可以填入所有的地方，但是它非常耗费能量。喷洒式纤维素或者牛仔裤布料是可选用的低耗能替代品。我们同时也用秸秆包填充在我们的书房，而这些是零耗能的东西。当我们使用石膏灰胶纸夹板，如果你用EcoRock，它只耗费的普通石膏灰胶纸夹板¼的能量。
en:We then go on tothe first thing that was very surprising.If we put aluminum windows in this house,we would double the energy use right there.Now, PVC is a little bit better,but still not as good as the wood that we chose.We then put in plumbing,electrical and HVAC,and insulate.Now, spray foam is an excellent insulator — it fills in all the cracks —but it is pretty high embodied energy,and, sprayed-in cellulose or blue jeansis a much lower energy alternative to that.We also used straw baleinfill for our library,which has zero embodied energy.When it comes time to sheetrock,if you use EcoRock it&#39;s about a quarterof the embodied energy of standard sheetrock.
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:然后你完成的时候，回顾下那些所有关于“绿色”的文章。它们对于整间房子的调控，我们和他们几乎是一样。但所有的媒体都在关注它们。除了地面。如果你在家里放入地毯，它大概占用整间屋子消耗能量的1/10，除非你选择水泥或者木头这可使内蕴能量总量更低。现在我们把能量总量加起来，我们已经建造了一座同样类型但是只消耗了一般房子的一半内蕴能量。
en:And then you get to the finishes,the subject of all of those &quot;go green&quot; articles,and on the scale of a housethey almost make no difference at all.And yet, all the press is focused on that.Except for flooring.If you put carpeting in your house,it&#39;s about a tenth of the embodied energy of the entire house,unless you use concrete or woodfor a much lower embodied energy.So now we add in the final construction energy, we add it all up,and we&#39;ve built a house for less than halfof the typical embodied energy for building a house like this.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:但是在我们过多拍我们自己的后背以表彰我们自己之前，我们已经消耗了151千瓦时去建造这个房子，当那儿之前有一座房子。所以问题是：我们如何把那些找回来？而且如果继续使用我的新节能房，对比老式的，非节能房，我们回到了大概6年前。现在，我大概会去升级改造那座旧房子使它变的更加节能。如果是那个情况，它会耗费我大概20年去平衡。现在，如果我不去关注能量总量，它会耗费我们超过50年的时间去平衡对比已经升级过的房子。这意味着什么？按我建造房子的比例，这相当于我开车一年，大概是五倍于我成为完全素食主义者。但是在我眼前最终显而易见的事中。显然，我需要从TED走路回家。但是在Blog中有对于所有能量总量的计算。
en:But before we pat ourselvestoo much on the back,we have poured 151 megawatt hoursof energy into constructing this housewhen there was a house there before.And so the question is:How could we make that back?And so if I run my new energy-efficient house forward,compared with the old, non-energy-efficient house,we make it back in about six years.Now, I probably would have upgraded the old houseto be more energy-efficient,and in that case,it would take me more about 20 years to break even.Now, if I hadn&#39;t paid attention to embodied energy,it would have taken usover 50 years to break evencompared to the upgraded house.So what does this mean?On the scale of my portion of the house,this is equivalent to aboutas much as I drive in a year,it&#39;s about five times as muchas if I went entirely vegetarian.But my elephant in the living room flies.Clearly, I need to walk home from TED.But all the calculationsfor embodied energy are on the blog.
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:同时，记住，有时候你从没有期待的事情正是最大的变化所在。
en:And, remember, it&#39;s sometimes the things that you are not expectingto be the biggest changes that are.
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:谢谢。（掌声）
en:Thank you. (Applause)
