时间： 0:11
zh-cn:谈论手术机器人也就是谈论手术。我尽量使我的想象不是太生动的同时，一直记着外科医生对血液的感觉与一般人不同。因为毕竟，外科医生对病人做的如果没有得到患者同意将是严重违法的。外科医生是裁缝，是管工是木匠，也有人说是医疗界的屠夫。切开，整形，重塑，搭建旁路，固定。但是谈论手术器械需要与手术技术的进展一起来讨论。
en:A talk about surgical robotsis also a talk about surgery.And while I&#39;ve tried to make my images not too graphic,keep in mind that surgeons have a different relationship with bloodthan normal people do,because, after all, what a surgeon does to a patient,if it were done without consent,would be a felony.Surgeons are the tailors, the plumbers,the carpenters — some would say the butchers —of the medical world:cutting, reshaping, reforming,bypassing, fixing.But you need to talk about surgical instrumentsand the evolution of surgical technology together.
时间： 0:57
zh-cn:为了给大家一些全景的感觉对于我们目前手术机器人的水平以及将来我们会向哪些方向发展，我想给大家简要介绍一下我们是如何达到这一步的。我们是如何相信手术是可行的，是可以做到的事情，这种切开与整形是可行的。
en:So in order to give you some kind of a perspectiveof where we are right nowwith surgical robots,and where we&#39;re going to be going in the future,I want to give you a little bit of perspectiveof how we got to this point,how we even came to believethat surgery was OK,that this was something that was possible to do,that this kind of cutting and reforming was OK.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:即是一点点介绍关于手术一万年来的发展。这是一个做过环钻术的头颅骨，环钻术简单说就是在头上凿个洞。而且有成百上千个像这样的头骨在考古时被发现，在全世界，时间退回五千至一万年。时间退回五千至一万年！想象一下。你是石器时代村落里的一个治疗师，有一些家伙,你不能十分确定他得了什么病，（Oliver Sacks(著名神经科医生)将在未来诞生）。患者有些癫痫表现,你并不了解这种病，但是你自己想：我不是很确定这家伙得了什么病，但是如果在他的头上切个洞,我可能就能治好它”。(观众笑)现在看那就是手术想法。
en:So, a little bit of perspective —about 10,000 years of perspective.This is a trephinated skull.And trephination is simply just cutting a hole in the skull.And many, many hundreds of skulls like thishave been found in archaeological sitesall over the world,dating back five to 10 thousand years.Five to 10 thousand years! Now imagine this.You are a healer in a Stone Age village.And you have some guy that you&#39;re not quite sure what&#39;s wrong with him —Oliver Sacks is going to be born way in the future.He&#39;s got some seizure disorder. And you don&#39;t understand this.But you think to yourself,&quot;I&#39;m not quite sure what&#39;s wrong with this guy.But maybe if I cut a hole in his head I can fix it.&quot;(Laughter)Now that is surgical thinking.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:现在 我们看到了介入性手术的曙光。令人惊奇之处是尽管我们不知道这其中有多少是出于宗教目的，有多少是出于治疗目的，但我们在这里可以说的是 这些病人存活了！根据这些孔边缘的愈合情况判断他们在钻孔术后活了几天，几个月，甚至很多年。因此，我们这里看到的是精湛技术的证据，(该技术)已经传承了成千上万年遍布全世界。在很多地方都有这个手术，互相之间没有联系，我们的确看到了介入性手术的曙光。
en:Now we&#39;ve got the dawn of interventional surgery here.What is astonishing about this is,even though we don&#39;t know really how much of thiswas intended to be religious,or how much of it was intended to be therapeutic,what we can tell is that these patients lived!Judging by the healing on the borders of these holes,they lived days, months, years following trephination.And so what we are seeing is evidenceof a refined techniquethat was being handed down over thousands and thousands of years,all over the world.This arose independently at sites everywherethat had no communication to one another.We really are seeing the dawn of interventional surgery.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:现在，我们快速推进几千年进入到青铜时代，我们看到精良的手术器械出现了。但是这个时代的手术者比他们大胆的祖先变得保守了些。这些人将手术限制在相当表浅的创伤。而且手术者更像个商人，而不象医生。这种情况一直延续到文艺复兴时期。
en:Now we can fast forward many thousands of yearsinto the Bronze Age and beyond.And we see new refined tools coming out.But surgeons in these eras are a little bit more conservativethan their bold, trephinating ancestors.These guys confined their surgeryto fairly superficial injuries.And surgeons were tradesmen,rather than physicians.This persisted all the way into and through the Renaissance.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:文艺复兴可能拯救了作家，但并没有太多地拯救外科医生。他们仍受到很多怀疑。外科医生仍有很多公共关系问题。因为当时主要是流动理发医生控制着局面。这些人穿行于村镇之间，做手术有点像艺术表演。因为我们这时还没发明麻醉技术，病人的痛苦象手术本身一样公开。其中最著名的一位名叫Frere Jacques，这里展示的是他在做结石取出术，取出膀胱里的结石这是当时最具创伤的手术之一，需要在两分钟内结束。你会因这种戏剧性而感到惊奇，的确是非常迅速。
en:That may have saved the writers,but it didn&#39;t really save the surgeons terribly much.They were still a mistrusted lot.Surgeons still had a bit of a PR problem,because the landscape was dominatedby the itinerant barber surgeon.These were folks that traveled from village to village, town to town,doing surgery sort of as a form of performance art.Because we were in the age before anesthesia,the agony of the patientis really as much of the public spectacleas the surgery itself.One of the most famous of these guys, Frere Jacques,shown here doing a lithotomy —which is the removal of the bladder stone,one of the most invasive surgeries they did at the time —had to take less than two minutes.You had to have quite a flair for the dramatic,and be really, really quick.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:在这里你们看到他在做结石取出术了。他的纪录是做了超过4000例这样的公开手术，遍布欧洲。这是一个令人吃惊的数字，尤其是当你认为手术是最后一招。我的意思是谁愿意经受那种手术？直到出现了麻醉，使意识丧失。随着莫顿醚吸入的演示在马萨诸塞州，大约在1847年开创了外科手术的新时代。麻醉使得外科医生可以自由操作，麻醉使他们可以自由尝试，开始深入到人体内。这的确是手术的一场革命。
en:And so here you see him doing a lithotomy.And he is credited with doing over 4,000 of these public surgeries,wandering around in Europe,which is an astonishing number,when you think that surgery must have been a last resort.I mean who would put themselves through that?Until anesthesia, the absence of sensation.With the demonstration of the Morton Ether Inhalerat the Mass. General in 1847,a whole new era of surgery was ushered in.Anesthesia gave surgeons the freedom to operate.Anesthesia gave them the freedom to experiment,to start to delve deeper into the body.This was truly a revolution in surgery.
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:但还是有个非常大的问题。医生经过长时间辛勤的手术，企图去治愈他们过去从未接触到的病症，但最后病人死了，他们死于严重感染。手术没有加重创伤，但是它能非常快地将你杀掉。而且感染还会继续发生在许多手术病人身上，直到外科手术的下一次革命。那就是无菌技术。
en:But there was a pretty big problem with this.After these very long, painstaking operations,attempting to cure things they&#39;d never been able to touch before,the patients died.They died of massive infection.Surgery didn&#39;t hurt anymore,but it killed you pretty quickly.And infection would continue to claim a majority of surgical patientsuntil the next big revolution in surgery,which was aseptic technique.
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:Joseph Lister是无菌或灭菌的最大拥护者，他努力说服一群持非常怀疑态度的医生，但是最终，他们接受了。Mayo兄弟去欧洲拜访了Lister。他们回到美国的诊所后，说他们学到术前清洁双手与术后洗手同样重要，就是如此简单。然而，手术死亡率却极大地降低了。
en:Joseph Lister was aepsis&#39;s,or sterility&#39;s, biggest advocate,to a very very skeptical bunch of surgeons.But eventually they did come around.The Mayo brothers came out to visit Lister in Europe.And they came back to their American clinic and they saidthey had learned it was as important to wash your handsbefore doing surgeryas it was to wash up afterwards. (Laughter)Something so simple.And yet, operative mortality dropped profoundly.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:这些手术现今也很有效，由于病人对疼痛不敏感了，无菌手术领域不再有限制，天空才是极限。现在身体各部位都可以实施手术，肠道、肝脏、心脏，在大脑。移植：器官从一个人身上取出可以装到另一个人身上，仍然可以工作。外科医生不再有名声问题，他们变成了神。
en:These surgeries were actually now being effective.With the patient insensitive to pain,and a sterile operating fieldall bets were off, the sky was the limit.You could now start doing surgery everywhere,on the gut, on the liver,on the heart, on the brain.Transplantation: you could take an organ out of one person,you could put it in another person, and it would work.Surgeons didn&#39;t have a problem with respectability anymore;they had become gods.
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:“大外科医生，大切口”的时代来临了。但是有很大的成本。因为医生虽然挽救生命，但没有特别关注病人的生活质量。因为健康人通常不需要手术，而不健康的人要从术后恢复有一段非常痛苦的时间。所以必须问这样一个问题：“我们能否用小的切口做同样的手术？腹腔镜就是用于这类手术。手术用长器械，小切口，它真正改变了手术的景观。有些器械大约都有100年了，但直到80年代才被用于诊断技术，当时照相这类技术有所改进，使它可以真正用于手术。
en:The era of the &quot;big surgeon, big incision&quot; had arrived,but at quite a cost,because they are saving lives,but not necessarily quality of life,because healthy people don&#39;t usually need surgery,and unhealthy people have a very hard time recovering from a cut like that.The question had to be asked,&quot;Well, can we do these same surgeriesbut through little incisions?&quot;Laparoscopy is doing this kind of surgery:surgery with long instruments through small incisions.And it really changed the landscape of surgery.Some of the tools for this had been around for a hundred years,but it had only been used as a diagnostic techniqueuntil the 1980s,when there was changes in camera technologies and things like that,that allowed this to be done for real operations.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:所以你看到的——这是第一个手术影象——我们放入这个管子，这是进入身体的一个新入口。它与你所想象的外科手术非常不同。我们从旁边两个分别的切口把仪器放进去，然后你可以开始操作了。在第一例腹腔镜胆囊手术后的10年里，又做了大量的腹腔镜胆囊手术。这是一场真正的巨大革命。
en:So what you see — this is now the first surgical image —as we&#39;re coming down the tube, this is a new entry into the body.It looks very different from what you&#39;re expecting surgery to look like.We bring instruments in,from two separate cuts in the side,and then you can start manipulating tissue.Within 10 years of the first gallbladder surgeriesbeing done laparoscopically,a majority of gallbladder surgerieswere being done laparoscopically —truly a pretty big revolution.
时间： 8:07
zh-cn:但是这场革命是有代价的。这些技术比人们预料的更难掌握。学习曲线很长，在这期间并发症上升相当高。外科医生不得不放弃他们的3维视觉，不得不放弃他们的手腕，不得不放弃对器械的直觉运动。这个医生有3000多小时的腹腔镜经验。现在特别令人沮丧的是针的安置，这是很难的。为什么这个很难呢，其中一个原因是外部工效太糟糕了。你拿着这些长器械，你的操作会偏离中央线。这个器械基本上是逆向工作的。
en:But there were casualties of this revolution.These techniques were a lot harder to learnthan people had anticipated.The learning curve was very long.And during that learning curve the complications went quite a bit higher.Surgeons had to give up their 3D vision.They had to give up their wrists.They had to give up intuitive motion in the instruments.This surgeon has over 3,000 hours of laparoscopic experience.Now this is a particularly frustrating placement of the needle.But this is hard.And one of the reasons why it is so hardis because the external ergonomics are terrible.You&#39;ve got these long instruments, and you&#39;re working off your centerline.And the instruments are essentially working backwards.
时间： 8:59
zh-cn:所以你要做的，是利用你手的技能，把它放在小切口的另一边，你要把你的一个腕子放在那个器械上。然后——我开始谈论机器人——达芬奇机器人把你的腕子放在小切口的另一边。在这里你可以看到这个腕子在操作。现在与腹腔镜相比，你可以准确地把针放到你的器械上，你可以一直穿过它，跟随它的轨迹。它变得如此简单是因为你可以在下面看到，手在做这些动作，器械准确地跟随那些动作。现在你放在器械和手之间的是一个大的，相当复杂的机器人。医生坐在一个控制台边，用这些控制器控制机器人。机器人在挪动这些器械，推动它们，向下进入身体。你有3维相机，你就能得到3维视图。
en:So what you need to do, to take the capability of your hand,and put it on the other side of that small incision,is you need to put a wrist on that instrument.And so — I get to talk about robots —the da Vinci robotput just that wrist on the other side of that incision.And so here you&#39;re seeing the operation of this wrist.And now, in contrast to the laparoscopy,you can precisely place the needle in your instruments,and you can pass it all the way throughand follow it in a trajectory.And the reason why this becomes so much easieris — you can see on the bottom —the hands are making the motions,and the instruments are following those motions exactly.Now, what you put between those instruments and those hands,is a large, fairly complicated robot.The surgeon is sitting at a console,and controlling the robot with these controllers.And the robot is moving these instruments around,and powering them, down inside the body.You have a 3D camera, so you get a 3D view.
时间：10:05
zh-cn:从1999年推出这个机器人后，许多机器人问世了，并被用于外科手术，象前列腺切除术。前列腺在骨盆深处，它需要精细的解剖精确的操作才能得到良好的结果。你也可以给一个跳动的心脏做搭桥而无需打开心脏。这都是在肋骨间做的。你可以进入心脏里，从内部修补瓣膜。你们已经有了这些技术——谢谢——（鼓掌）你可能会说，“喔，太酷了！为什么不是所有的手术都这样做呢？”是有一些理由的，一些好的理由。费用是其中之一。
en:And since this was introduced in 1999,a lot of these robots have been outand being used for surgical procedures like a prostatectomy,which is a prostate deep in the pelvis,and it requires fine dissectionand delicate manipulationto be able to get a good surgical outcome.You can also sew bypass vessels directly onto a beating heartwithout cracking the chest.This is all done in between the ribs.And you can go inside the heart itselfand repair the valves from the inside.You&#39;ve got these technologies — thank you —(Applause)And so you might say, &quot;Wow this is really cool!So, smartypants, why isn&#39;t all surgery being done this way?&quot;And there are some reasons, some good reasons.And cost is one of them.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:我谈论了大型的、复杂的机器人。加上它所有的附属配件，一个机器人与你付给金牌外科医生的费用一样。但它比金牌外科医生更有用，它的确是一个相当大的投资。但你一旦拥有它，你的费用就会下降。但还有一些其它障碍。例如前列腺切除术，前列腺很小，在一个位置。你安装你的机器人非常精确地在那一点工作。机器人用于这类手术非常好。实际上如果你或是你认识的人在过去几年里做了前列腺手术，可能会有机会是这样做的。但是如果你的手术不仅在一个位置上，你就需要挪动机器人。你需要有新的切口，你需要重新设置，你需要增加一些接口，更多的接口。这时的问题就是费时费力。
en:I talked about the large, complicated robot.With all its bells and whistles, one of those robotswill cost you about as much as a solid gold surgeon.More useful than a solid gold surgeon,but, still, it&#39;s a fairly big capital investment.But once you&#39;ve got it, your procedure costs do come down.But there are other barriers.So something like a prostatectomy —the prostate is small, and it&#39;s in one spot,and you can set your robot up very preciselyto work in that one spot.And so it&#39;s perfect for something like that.And in fact if you, or anyone you know,had their prostate taken out in the last couple of years,chances are it was done with one of these systems.But if you need to reach more places than just one,you need to move the robot.And you need to put some new incisions in there.And you need to re-set it up.And then you need to add some more ports, and more.And the problem is it gets time-consuming, and cumbersome.
时间：11:58
zh-cn:因为这个原因，有许多手术都不是用达芬奇做的。因此我们不得不问这样一个问题，“我们如何解决呢”？我们能做什么改进使我们不必在每次挪动之后都要重新设置？如果我们把所有的仪器放在一个地方集中起来会怎样？它会如何改变外科医生的技能？它会如何改变病人的经历？现在要那样做的话，我们需要能带一个摄像头和一些器械，一起穿过小的管道，就象你在电视腹腔镜手术看到的那个管子一样，或不完全一样，就象这个。
en:And for that reason there are many surgeriesthat just aren&#39;t being done with the da Vinci.So we had to ask the question, &quot;Well how do we fix that?&quot;What if we could change it so that we didn&#39;t have to re-set upeach time we wanted to move somewhere different?What if we could bring all the instrumentsin together in one place?How would that change the capabilities of the surgeon?And how would that change the experience for the patient?Now, to do that,we need to be able to bring a cameraand instruments in together through one small tube,like that tube you saw in the laparoscopy video.Or, not so coincidentally, like a tube like this.
时间：12:45
zh-cn:从那个管子里会出来什么呢？它是这个新技术的首次亮相，这个新机器人可以到达任何地方。准备好了吗？它来了。这是摄像头，还有三个器械。你看见它出来了，为了真正能够做任何有用的事，它不可能老是以这种成簇的形式在一起。它必须从中央线分出来，背对着中央线工作。它是个冒失鬼。但让你做的是给你所有必要的牵引，反向牵引，这样你能够解剖、能够缝合，你可以做所有你需要做的事，所有的手术工作。但所有都从一个小切口进去。它并不是这样简单。但值得这样去做，因为它使我们能够自如地操作。但对于病人来说它是透明的。这是他们想要看到的。
en:So what&#39;s going to come out of that tubeis the debut of this new technology,this new robot that is going to be able to reach anywhere.Ready? So here it comes.This is the camera, and three instruments.And as you see it come out,in order to actually be able to do anything useful,it can&#39;t all stay clustered up like this.It has to be able to come off of the centerlineand then be able to work back toward that centerline.He&#39;s a cheeky little devil.But what this lets you dois gives you that all-important traction,and counter-traction,so that you can dissect, so that you can sew,so that you can do all the things that you need to do,all the surgical tasks.But it&#39;s all coming in through one incision.It&#39;s not so simple.But it&#39;s worth it for the freedom that this gives usas we&#39;re going around.For the patient, however,it&#39;s transparent. This is all they&#39;re going to see.
时间：13:53
zh-cn:想到我们要开始做的事情我们非常兴奋。我们开始撰写关于外科手术的下一次革命。当我们使用这些技能的时候，我们又开始转向下一个地方，我们开始考虑新的外科手术会是什么样子。我认为要走好这次手术革命下面的路，我们不仅手要采取新的方式，我们的眼睛也要采取新的方式。我们要透过表面去看。我们要能够用更好的方法指导手术。
en:It&#39;s very exciting to think where we get to go with this.We get to write the script of the next revolution in surgery.As we take these capabilities, and we get to go to the next places,we get to decide what our new surgeries are going to be.And I think to really get the rest of the wayin that revolution,we need to not just take our hands in in new ways,we also need to take our eyes in in new ways.We need to see beyond the surface.We need to be able to guide what we&#39;re cuttingin a much better way.
时间：14:31
zh-cn:这是个癌症手术。其中一个问题是，即使对于外科医生，尽管他已经看过很多这样的病例，你看不到这个肿瘤，特别是当它隐藏在深处的时候。我们开始要做的就是向血管中注射特殊设计的标记物瞄准肿瘤。它可以与肿瘤结合在一起。我们可以让那些标记物发光，然后我们用特殊的摄像头可以看到它。现在我们知道我们需要切哪，即使它不在表面。我们可以用这些标记物，在肿瘤部位注射。然后我们能够追溯它们从肿瘤的哪个部位流出来，这样我们能够看到肿瘤最初可能转移的地方。我们可以把这些染料注射到血流中，这样我们可以为心脏堵塞的病人搭建血管旁路。在我们最后为病人缝合之前，我们能够看到是否真正搭建了连接。以前由于没有放射技术，有些事我们还是做不到。现在我们能使肿瘤发光，就象这个肾肿瘤，你可以真实地看到肿瘤的边界，这个肾你想留下。或者肝脏肿瘤，这个肝脏你想留下。
en:This is a cancer surgery.One of the problems with this,even for surgeons who&#39;ve been looking at this a lot,is you can&#39;t see the cancer,especially when it&#39;s hidden below the surface.And so what we&#39;re starting to dois we&#39;re starting to inject specially designed markersinto the bloodstream that will target the cancer.It will go, bind to the cancer.And we can make those markers glow.And we can take special cameras,and we can look at it.Now we know where we need to cut,even when it&#39;s below the surface.We can take these markers and we can inject them in a tumor site.And we can follow where they flow out from that tumor site,so we can see the first places where that cancer might travel.We can inject these dyes into the bloodstream,so that when we do a new vesseland we bypass a blockage on the heart,we can see if we actually made the connection,before we close that patient back up again —something that we haven&#39;t been able to dowithout radiation before.We can light up tumorslike this kidney tumor,so that you can exactly see where the boundary isbetween the kidney tumor and the kidney you want to leave behind,or the liver tumor and the liver you want to leave behind.
时间：15:57
zh-cn:我们甚至不需要限于宏观视野。我们有很灵活的显微探头可以直接下到身体里。我们可以直接观看细胞。我正在这看神经。你看到的就是神经，在下面，这个显微探头由机械臂拿着，实物就是这样。但如果你是个外科病人你就会关注神经，因为它使你在术后能保持节制、排尿控制和性功能。这些对病人来说都是非常重要的。
en:And we don&#39;t even need to confine ourselvesto this macro vision.We have flexible microscopic probesthat we can bring down into the body.And we can look at cells directly.I&#39;m looking at nerves here. So these are nerves you see, down on the bottom,and the microscope probe that&#39;s being held by the robotic hand, up at the top.So this is all very prototypey at this point.But you care about nerves, if you are a surgical patient.Because they let you keep continence,bladder control, and sexual function after surgery,all of which is generally fairly important to the patient.
时间：16:37
zh-cn:所以将这些技术结合起来我们就能够做到这一切，看到这一切。我们可以治愈疾病。我们能保持病人术后各种功能完整无损。我一直在谈论病人，好象病人是这个房间外面某个抽象的人。并不是这样。你们中的许多人，或者是全部，将会有这个问题或已经面临癌症或心脏病的诊断，或一些器官功能失调，那就是你要花钱和医生约会了。当你出现这些问题的时候——我是指，这些疾病可不管你写了多少书，你拥有多少家公司，也不管你获得了诺贝尔奖，你打算与你的孩子在一起度过多少时间。这些疾病我们都会有。
en:So, with the combination of these technologieswe can reach it all, and we can see it all.We can heal the disease.And we can leave the patient whole and intactand functional afterwards.Now, I&#39;ve talked about the patientas if the patient is, somehow, someone abstractoutside this room.And that is not the case.Many of you, all of you maybe,will at some point, or have already, faced a diagnosis of cancer,or heart disease, or some organ dysfunctionthat&#39;s going to buy you a date with a surgeon.And when you get to that point —I mean, these maladies don&#39;t carehow many books you&#39;ve written,how many companies you&#39;ve started,that Nobel Prize you have yet to win,how much time you planned to spend with your children.These maladies come for us all.
时间：17:39
zh-cn:我提供给你的简单手术的前景能使诊断少一些恐怖吗？我不能确定我是否真想让它这样。因为当你面临死亡的时候你会重新评价你生活的重点，重新排列你生活的目标，不象其它任何事情。我从来不想剥夺你的顿悟，相反我想要的是你完整无损、功能齐全的去拯救世界，在你一旦决定去这样做的时候。那就是我对你们未来的想象。谢谢（鼓掌）
en:And the prospect I&#39;m offering you, of an easier surgery ...is that going to make that diagnosis any less terrifying?I&#39;m not sure I really even want it to.Because facing your own mortalitycauses a re-evaluation of priorities,and a realignment of what your goals are in life, unlike anything else.And I would never want to deprive you of that epiphany.What I want instead,is for you to be whole, intact,and functional enough to go out and save the world,after you&#39;ve decided you need to do it.And that is my vision for your future.Thank you.(Applause)
