时间： 0:11
zh-cn:那么世界上最幸福的人应该是什么样？肯定不是像我这样。他应该是这样。他的名字叫马蒂厄·里卡多那么你怎样才能成为世界上最幸福的人呢？实际上有方法可以测出人大脑中幸福感是多少。你可以检测脑细胞的相对活性采用功能磁共振成像，比较左脑前额皮质和右脑前额皮质。结果马蒂厄的幸福度测量结果打破了之前的记录他是迄今为止通过科学测量显示的世上最快乐的人。这让我们思考一个问题：他被检测时在想什么呢？或许一些顽皮的想法(笑声)实际上，他在冥想关于恻隐之心马蒂厄自己的经验表明拥有恻隐之心是自己最快乐的时候。
en:So what does the happiest man in the world look like?He certainly doesn&#39;t look like me.He looks like this.His name is Matthieu Ricard.So how do you get to be the happiest man in the world?Well it turns outthere is a way to measure happiness in the brain.And you do that by measuring the relative activationof the left prefrontal cortex in the fMRI,versus the right prefrontal cortex.And Matthieu&#39;s happiness measureis off the charts.He&#39;s by far the happiest manever measured by science.Which leads us to a question:What was he thinking when he was being measured?Perhaps something very naughty.(Laughter)Actually, he was meditatingon compassion.Matthieu&#39;s own experienceis that compassion is the happiest state ever.
时间： 1:13
zh-cn:读马蒂厄的故事在我人生中起了重要作用我的梦想就是在我的有生之年，实现世界和平—为实现这一目标必须先实现内心的平和和人人拥有恻隐之心让这目标在全球范围内实现向马蒂厄学习使我从新的角度看待我的工作马蒂厄的脑扫描图显示对人心怀恻隐并非一份苦差事爱心带来幸福感怀有恻隐之心是有意思的事这个令人兴奋的想法可以改变整个游戏。因为，若拥有恻隐之心是苦差事没有人会去做。除非是达赖喇嘛之类的人。但如果拥有恻隐之心是有意思的事每个人都会去做因此为实现世界范围内人人拥有恻隐之心我们需要做的就是重构恻隐之心将它当做一个有意思的事情。
en:Reading about Matthieuwas one of the pivotal moments of my life.My dreamis to create the conditionsfor world peace in my lifetime —and to do thatby creating the conditionsfor inner peaceand compassionon a global scale.And learning about Matthieugave me a new angle to look at my work.Matthieu&#39;s brain scan showsthat compassion is not a chore.Compassion is something that creates happiness.Compassion is fun.And that mind-blowing insightchanges the entire game.Because if compassion was a chore,nobody&#39;s going to do it,except maybe the Dalai Lama or something.But if compassion was fun,everybody&#39;s going to do it.Therefore,to create the conditions for global compassion,all we have to dois to reframe compassionas something that is fun.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:但是光有意思还不够如果拥有恻隐之心同样可以获利呢？如果它也可以带来经济效益呢？那么，世界上每个老板，每个经理都会想要拥有恻隐之心—就像这样。这将会成就世界和平因此我开始关注在经济背景下，恻隐之心是如何表现的幸运的是，我并没有找太久因为我要找的近在眼前就在谷歌，我所在的企业中
en:But fun is not enough.What if compassionis also profitable?What if compassion is also good for business?Then, every boss, every manager in the world,will want to have compassion —like this.That would create the conditionsfor world peace.So, I started paying attentionto what compassion looks like in a business setting.Fortunately, I didn&#39;t have to look very far.Because what I was looking for was right in front of my eyes —in Google, my company.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:我知道世界上有其它的极富爱心的企业。但谷歌是我所熟悉的平台因为我已经在此工作十年了所以我用谷歌做案例分析谷歌是一个理想主义的企业一个成就于理想主义的企业或许正因为这样恻隐之心是有系统性的在企业上下广泛推广在谷歌，企业爱心的表达形式总是相同的模式是一种有趣的模式它始于一小部分的谷歌员工主动去做一些事他们通常不会先征得许可而是直接就做其他员工参与进来，于是这一群体壮大起来有时，参与人数够一定规模就变成了官方活动因此，换句话说它几乎都是从底层开始
en:I know there are other compassionate companies in the world,but Google is the place I&#39;m familiar withbecause I&#39;ve been there for 10 years,so I&#39;ll use Google as the case study.Google is a companyborn of idealism.It&#39;s a company that thrives on idealism.And maybe because of that,compassion is organicand widespread company-wide.In Google, expressions of corporate compassionalmost always follow the same pattern.It&#39;s sort of a funny pattern.It starts with a small group of Googlerstaking the initiative to do something.And they don&#39;t usually ask for permission;they just go ahead and do it,and then other Googlers join in, and it just gets bigger and bigger.And sometimes it gets big enoughto become official.So in other words,it almost always starts from the bottom up.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:我再举些例子第一个例子是最大的年度社区活动—来自世界各地的谷歌员工为当地社区出力这项活动最先是由三个员工发起组织的它之后成为正式活动，是因为活动规模扩大了另一个例子，三个谷歌员工一个厨师，一个工程师外加一个更有意思的，按摩师他们三个了解到印度的某地生活着20万人口的地区却没有任何医疗设施他们怎么办呢？他们就直接开始拉赞助筹到足够的资金后就建了这家医院第一所为20万人造的医院在海地地震间大量工程师和产品经理自发聚在一起熬夜工作设法创造一个工具来帮助受灾者找到他们的亲友恻隐之心同样表现在我们的国际分部中
en:And let me give you some examples.The first example is the largest annual community event —where Googlers from around the worlddonate their labor to their local communities —was initiated and organizedby three employeesbefore it became official,because it just became too big.Another example, three Googlers —a chef, an engineerand, most funny, a massage therapist —three of them, they learned about a region in Indiawhere 200,000 people livewithout a single medical facility.So what do they do?They just go ahead and start a fundraiser.And they raise enough money to build this hospital —the first hospital of its kindfor 200,000 people.During the Haiti earthquake,a number of engineers and product managersspontaneously came togetherand stayed overnightto build a toolto allow earthquake victims to find their loved ones.And expressions of compassionare also found in our international offices.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:例如在中国中层员工发起了中国最大的社会公益大赛涉及中国1000多所学校共同参与如教育、贫困卫生保健和环境等社会问题诸多系统的社会活动遍及谷歌使得谷歌决定成立一个社会责任团队以支持这些公益活动这一设想，同样来自草根阶层两个谷歌员工写在他们的工作项目规程中并主动参与工作我觉得有意思的是社会责任团队并非是作为某个重大的企业策划项目的一部分而成立的它像是两个人说，“我们做这个吧”然后企业说“好”于是我们发现谷歌是有爱心的企业因为谷歌的员工们发现了拥有爱心很有意思
en:In China for example,one mid-level employeeinitiated the largest social action competition in China,involving more than 1,000 schools in China,working on issuessuch as education, poverty,health care and the environment.There is so much organic social actionall around Googlethat the company decided to forma social responsibility teamjust to support these efforts.And this idea, again,came from the grassroots,from two Googlers who wrote their own job descriptionsand volunteered themselves for the job.And I found it fascinatingthat the social responsibility teamwas not formed as part of some grand corporate strategy.It was two persons saying, &quot;Let&#39;s do this,&quot;and the company said, &quot;Yes.&quot;So it turns outthat Google is a compassionate company,because Googlers foundcompassion to be fun.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:但是光有意思还不够这也是真正的经济效益有哪些呢？爱心带来的第一个效益就是它促成的高效率的企业领导这是什么意思呢？恻隐之心有三个组成部分其一是情感成分即，“我与你感同身受”其二是认知成分即，“我理解你。”另外一个是动机成分即，“我想帮助你。”那么这与企业领导力有什么关系呢？吉姆·科林斯曾有一项综合研究，他把它记录在《从优秀到卓越》一书中，特别的领导才能带领一个企业从优秀到卓越他将这样的领导成为“五级领袖”这些的领袖不仅很有能力而且拥有两个重要品质那就是谦逊且有抱负这些领袖人物追求尽善尽美而正因为他们追求尽善尽美他们觉得没有必要膨胀自我研究结果表明这些人往往成为最优秀的企业高管如果你注意到这些品质其中关于恻隐之心我们发现恻隐之心之中的认知和情感成分—了解并同情他人—会抑制，调控我所说的在我们心中的过度自恋—因此为人文关怀创造了条件
en:But again, fun is not enough.There are also real business benefits.So what are they?The first benefit of compassionis that it creates highly effective business leaders.What does that mean?There are three components of compassion.There is the affective component,which is, &quot;I feel for you.&quot;There is the cognitive component,which is, &quot;I understand you.&quot;And there is a motivational component,which is, &quot;I want to help you.&quot;So what has this got to do with business leadership?According to a very comprehensive studyled by Jim Collins,and documented in the book &quot;Good to Great,&quot;it takes a very special kind of leaderto bring a companyfrom goodness to greatness.And he calls them &quot;Level 5 leaders.&quot;These are leaderswho, in addition to being highly capable,possess two important qualities,and they arehumility and ambition.These are leaderswho are highly ambitious for the greater good.And because they&#39;re ambitious for a greater good,they feel no need to inflate their own egos.And they, according to the research,make the best business leaders.And if you look at these qualitiesin the context of compassion,we findthat the cognitive and affective components of compassion —understanding people and empathizing with people —inhibits, tones down,what I call the excessive self-obsession that&#39;s in us,therefore creating the conditionsfor humility.
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:拥有恻隐之心的动力使人愿意追求更好换言之恻隐之心可以培养五星级领导这是第一诱人的经济收益第二诱人的是恻隐之心创造巨大的劳动力员工互相鼓舞以获得更好它可以创造富有特色活力的社区人们彼此欣赏，互相尊重我的意思是说，你早上去工作和另外三人一起他们刚刚决定在印度建所医院你如何不能被这些人带动呢？这是你自己的同事啊！因此这样互相鼓舞可以促进合作主动性和创造性它促使我们建立高效的企业
en:The motivational component of compassioncreates ambition for greater good.In other words,compassion is the way to grow Level 5 leaders.And this is the first compelling business benefit.The second compelling benefit of compassionis that it creates an inspiring workforce.Employees mutually inspire each othertowards greater good.It creates a vibrant, energetic communitywhere people admire and respect each other.I mean, you come to work in the morning,and you work with three guyswho just up and decide to build a hospital in India.It&#39;s like how can you not be inspired by those people —your own coworkers?So this mutual inspirationpromotes collaboration,initiative and creativity.It makes us a highly effective company.
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:因此，说了这么多秘方是什么呢？为拥有恻隐之心且在企业背景下根据我们的经验有三大成分第一是创造一种文化热心致力于创造更好因此，总要想你的企业和你的工作如何才能服务于最好？或者，你怎样才能更好的服务于更好？这一为尽善尽美服务的目标总是自我鼓舞的并且它创造了肥沃的土壤使得恻隐之心成长这就是第一个成分
en:So, having said all that,what is the secret formulafor brewing compassionin the corporate setting?In our experience,there are three ingredients.The first ingredientis to create a cultureof passionate concernfor the greater good.So always think:how is your company and your jobserving the greater good?Or, how can you further servethe greater good?This awareness of serving the greater goodis very self-inspiringand it creates fertile groundfor compassion to grow in.That&#39;s one.
时间： 9:36
zh-cn:第二就是自治在谷歌有很多自治权我们其中一个最有名的经理开玩笑说他这么说“谷歌是一个囚犯开的避难所。”他把自己也当做其中的囚犯之一如果你已经有一个恻隐文化和其他理想主义你允许你的手下自由创新他们会用最富有同情心的方式做对事情。
en:The second ingredientis autonomy.So in Google, there&#39;s a lot of autonomy.And one of our most popular managers jokes that,this is what he says,&quot;Google is a placewhere the inmates run the asylum.&quot;And he considers himself one of the inmates.If you already havea culture of compassionand idealismand you let your people roam free,they will do the right thingin the most compassionate way.
时间：10:08
zh-cn:第三成分就是注重内在发展和个人成长例如，在谷歌培养领导很注重内在修为譬如自我意识，自控同情心和恻隐之心因为我们相信领导是从品性开始我们甚至创建了一个七周课程关于情感智慧这个我们常常开玩笑称为“探索内在自我”它没有听起来那么好笑我通过训练成为工程师的但我是这个课程的始创者和传授者之一我觉得这很有意思因为谷歌信任一个工程师来传授情感智慧这是什么样的企业啊！
en:The third ingredientis to focus on inner developmentand personal growth.Leadership training in Google, for example,places a lot of emphasis on the inner qualities,such as self-awareness, self-mastery,empathy and compassion,because we believethat leadership beginswith character.We even created a seven-week curriculumon emotion intelligence,which we jokingly call &quot;Searching Inside Yourself.&quot;It&#39;s less naughty than it sounds.So I&#39;m an engineer by training,but I&#39;m one of the creators and instructors of this course,which I find kind of funny,because this is a company that trusts an engineerto teach emotion intelligence.What a company.
时间：11:00
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:02
zh-cn:那么“探索内在自我”——这个怎么实现呢?有三步第一步注意力训练注意力是基础对于所有高认知和情感的能力来说。因此，任何一个课程来训练情感智慧必须以注意力测试为始这个想法就是用来训练注意力以培养一种心智也就是当下的平和与清明。这也为情感智能建立了根基。第二步紧跟第一步
en:So &quot;Search Inside Yourself&quot; — how does it work?It works in three steps.The first stepis attention training.Attention is the basisof all higher cognitive and emotional abilities.Therefore, any curriculumfor training emotion intelligencehas to begin with attention training.The idea here is to train attentionto create a quality of mindthat is calm and clearat the same time.And this creates the foundationfor emotion intelligence.The second step follows the first step.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:第二部是培养自知和自控能力因此用第一步中的高强度注意力我们营造了一个高保真观念与认知和情感步骤结合这是什么意思呢？它意思是能够观察我们的意识流和感情流且十分清晰客观地从第三者角度出发一旦你能这么做你创造了自知以达到自治
en:The second step is developing self-knowledgeand self-mastery.So using the supercharged attention from step one,we create a high-resolution perceptioninto the cognitive and emotive processes.What does that mean?It means being able to observe our thought streamand the process of emotionwith high clarity,objectivityand from a third-person perspective.And once you can do that,you create the kind of self-knowledgethat enables self-mastery.
时间：12:24
zh-cn:在第二步之后的第三步就是建立一些新的心理习惯这是什么意思？想象一下想象你在任何时候遇见另一个人时你见到他的任何时候你习惯性的第一本能想法就是：“我想让你更幸福。我想让你更幸福。”想象一下，你可以做这些拥有这样的习惯，这些心理习惯改变工作中每一件事因为这个好的期待无意识中就被别人看到了它带来信任信任带来很多好的工作关系同时它为恻隐之心在工作场所发挥作用创造条件我们希望有一天能共享资源“探索内在自我”因此每个企业员工至少可以将它当做一个参考
en:The third step, following the second step,is to create new mental habits.What does that mean? Imagine this.Imagine whenever you meet any other person,any time you meet a person,your habitual, instinctive first thoughtis, &quot;I want you to be happy.I want you to be happy.&quot;Imagine you can do that.Having this habit, this mental habit,changes everything at work.Because this good willis unconsciously picked up by other people,and it creates trust,and trust creates a lot of good working relationships.And this also creates the conditionsfor compassion in the workplace.Someday, we hope to open-source&quot;Search Inside Yourself&quot;so that everybody in the corporate worldwill at least be able to use it as a reference.
时间：13:20
zh-cn:最后我想以我开始的话作为结尾关于幸福我想引用他的一句话—-这个穿着袍子的人，不是别人达赖喇嘛他说：“如果你想让别人幸福请付出恻隐之心如果你想变得幸福请付出恻隐之心。”我发现这是真理不管是从个人角度还是企业角度来看我希望这恻隐之心对你来说不仅有意思，而且有效益。
en:And in closing,I want to end the same place I started,with happiness.I want to quote this guy — the guy in robes, not the other guy —the Dalai Lama,who said, &quot;If you want others to be happy,practice compassion.If you want to be happy,practice compassion.&quot;I found this to be true,both on the individual leveland at a corporate level.And I hope that compassionwill be both fun and profitable for you too.
时间：13:50
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间：13:52
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
