时间： 0:11
zh-cn:很高兴来到这里很高兴我的发言被安排在欧洲核子研究中心的布莱恩·考克斯之后我知道欧洲核子研究中心有一个大型强子对撞器小型强子对撞器出什么事了？小型强子对撞器去哪了？因为小型强子对撞器曾经是大的现在，小型强子对撞器被扔在柜子里，没人搭理了在大型强子对撞器刚启用的时候它没能正常运转，大家试图找出原因原来是小型强子对撞器的团队在捣鬼因为他们太嫉妒了整个强子对撞器团队需要被解放
en:It&#39;s a great pleasure to be here.It&#39;s a great pleasure to speak afterBrian Cox from CERN.I think CERN is the homeof the Large Hadron Collider.What ever happened to the Small Hadron Collider?Where is the Small Hadron Collider?Because the Small Hadron Collider once was the big thing.Now, the Small Hadron Collideris in a cupboard, overlooked and neglected.You know when the Large Hadron Collider started,and it didn&#39;t work, and people tried to work out why,it was the Small Hadron Collider teamwho sabotaged itbecause they were so jealous.The whole Hadron Collider familyneeds unlocking.
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:布莱恩的演讲和所有他那些奇妙的图片其真正含义是观察位置决定了观察结果布莱恩的意思是科学不断开拓出了各种各样的观察位置立于其上，我们可以审视自己。所以它非常具有价值。你所处的观察位置事实上决定了观察结果你所提出的问题基本决定了你所能得到的答案。
en:The lesson of Brian&#39;s presentation, in a way —all those fantastic pictures —is this really:that vantage point determines everything that you see.What Brian was saying wasscience has opened up successively different vantage pointsfrom which we can see ourselves,and that&#39;s why it&#39;s so valuable.So the vantage point you takedetermines virtually everything that you will see.The question that you will askwill determine much of the answer that you get.
时间： 1:21
zh-cn:如果你的问题是去哪里能够找到教育的未来我们传统上给出的答案至少在过去的二十年里，非常简单去芬兰芬兰是世界上观察教育系统的最佳地点芬兰人可能有些无趣，抑郁，且自杀率颇高但是他们做的真的很到位他们的教育系统绝对令人叹为观止所以我们都跑去了芬兰我们惊叹于芬兰社会的民主奇迹文化的统一性，以及所有其他方面但最后我们却苦于很难把所见所学的带回去用。
en:And so if you ask this question:Where would you look to see the future of education?The answer that we&#39;ve traditionally given to thatis very straightforward, at least in the last 20 years:You go to Finland.Finland is the best place in the world to see school systems.The Finns may be a bit boring and depressive and there&#39;s a very high suicide rate,but by golly, they are qualified.And they have absolutely amazing education systems.So we all troop off to Finland,and we wonder at the social democratic miracle of Finlandand its cultural homogeneity and all the rest of it,and then we struggle to imagine how we mightbring lessons back.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:所以在过去的一年里在思科的资助下基于高尚的理由，我到了其他一些地方做调查。因为事实上革新性的创造有的时候来自于发达地区但它经常来自于有庞大的需求不足，和潜在需要而且以现有资源和方式无法解决问题的地方-传统的高成本方法依赖专业人员，比如学校和医院
en:Well, so, for this last year,with the help of Cisco who sponsored me,for some balmy reason, to do this,I&#39;ve been looking somewhere else.Because actually radical innovation does sometimescome from the very best,but it often comes from placeswhere you have huge need —unmet, latent demand —and not enough resources for traditional solutions to work —traditional, high-cost solutions,which depend on professionals,which is what schools and hospitals are.
时间： 2:26
zh-cn:所以我最后选择了这类地方这个地方叫猴山是里约上百个贫民区中的一个未来50年，大部分的人口增长都会在城市地区。我们会每年增加六个一千二百万人口的城市持续增长三十年。大部分的人口增长会在发达地区。大部分的增长会在像猴山的这类地方。这里有增长最快的青年人口，全世界最快的所以如果你想把一些想法派上用场几乎可以是任何想法 — 健康，教育政府工作以及教育 —那么你必须去这类地方在这里，你会遇见这类人
en:So I ended up in places like this.This is a place called Monkey Hill.It&#39;s one of the hundreds of favelas in Rio.Most of the population growth of the next 50 yearswill be in cities.We&#39;ll grow by six cities of 12 million people a yearfor the next 30 years.Almost all of that growth will be in the developed world.Almost all of that growth will bein places like Monkey Hill.This is where you&#39;ll find the fastest growingyoung populations of the world.So if you want recipes to work —for virtually anything — health, education,government politicsand education —you have to go to these places.And if you go to these places, you meet people like this.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:这个人叫胡安得森在他十四岁的时候像很多在巴西教育系统里的十四岁孩子一样他退学了上学太无聊了胡安得森转而去了能给他机会和希望的地方在他住的地方，那就是毒品交易他进步神速，到十六岁的时候已经在十个贫民区展开了毒品业务他一个星期经手二十万美元手底下有两百人估计活不到二十五岁就得死但很幸运，他认识了这个人罗德里格.巴乔巴西第一个拥有笔记本电脑的人1994年，罗德里格开始从事一种被称作CDI的业务就是把电脑从捐赠它们的企业那里拿到贫民区的社区中心然后建立一些这样的地方真正改变胡安得森的是可以辅助他学习的科技使学习变得有趣且易行
en:This is a guy called Juanderson.At the age of 14,in common with many 14-year-olds in the Brazilian education system,he dropped out of school.It was boring.And Juanderson, instead, went intowhat provided kind of opportunity and hopein the place that he lived, which was the drugs trade.And by the age of 16, with rapid promotion,he was running the drugs trade in 10 favelas.He was turning over 200,000 dollars a week.He employed 200 people.He was going to be dead by the age of 25.And luckily, he met this guy,who is Rodrigo Baggio,the owner of the first laptop to ever appear in Brazil.1994, Rodrigo started somethingcalled CDI,which took computersdonated by corporations,put them into community centers in favelasand created places like this.What turned Juanderson aroundwas technology for learningthat made learning fun and accessible.
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:你也可以去像这样的地方这是基贝拉，东非最大的贫民区上百万人住在这里方圆有好几公里我在这遇见了这两个人左边的是阿紫，右边的是毛琳她们刚刚拿到了肯尼亚的中等教育文凭从这个名称可以看出肯尼亚的教育系统几乎是完全效仿1950年左右的英国只是办的更糟糕可见这类贫民区是有学校设施的学校都是像这样的毛琳就是在这里上学这些都是私立学校。在贫民区没有公立学校而且对于她们所受的教育我实在不敢恭维就是在这样一个地方，一个修女们建立起来的学校坐落于另一个叫那库鲁的贫民区。这个班上一半的孩子是孤儿他们的父母死于艾滋病。另一半孩子是单亲父母中的一个死于艾滋病。所以上学的内容在这类地区不是要了解肯尼亚或者英国的国王和王后而是如何生存，谋生不得艾滋病。有一种不分贵贱，人人可享用的科技在这类地方就有它跟工业科技毫无关系也不用电或者水它就是移动电话。如果你想从头设计一种在非洲的服务，不论何种方式，你最好现在就从移动电话入手。或者你可以去这类地方
en:Or you can go to places like this.This is Kibera, which is the largest slum in East Africa.Millions of people living here,stretched over many kilometers.And there I met these two,Azra on the left, Maureen on the right.They just finished their Kenyan certificateof secondary education.That name should tell you that the Kenyan education systemborrows almost everythingfrom Britain, circa 1950,but has managed to make it even worse.So there are schools in slums like this.They&#39;re places like this.That&#39;s where Maureen went to school.They&#39;re private schools. There are no state schools in slums.And the education they got was pitiful.It was in places like this. This a school set up by some nunsin another slum called Nakuru.Half the children in this classroom have no parentsbecause they&#39;ve died through AIDS.The other half have one parentbecause the other parent has died through AIDS.So the challenges of educationin this kind of placeare not to learn the kings and queens of Kenya or Britain.They are to stay alive, to earn a living,to not become HIV positive.The one technology that spans rich and poorin places like thisis not anything to do with industrial technology.It&#39;s not to do with electricity or water.It&#39;s the mobile phone.If you want to design from scratchvirtually any service in Africa,you would start now with the mobile phone.Or you could go to places like this.
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:这个地方叫玛丹基利殖民定居地是一个比较完善的贫民区离新德里大约二十五分钟车程，我在那里遇到了这几个人她们那天带我到周边转了转这几个女孩，有个值得注意的地方这其实是社会变革的一种标志这个现象席卷了发展中国家那就是这些女孩都还没有结婚。十年前，这个年龄肯定已经结婚了现在却没有，她们还想着继续深造，拥有一份职业。抚养她们的母亲们都是文盲，从未做过家庭作业。全世界的发展中地区，有数以百万的家长成百上千万的家长这辈子第一次和孩子们一起做家庭作业，考试。这些家长学习的原因不是因为她们在这样的学校里学习。这是一个私立学校一个收费的，不错的学校。这是你能找到的最好的在印度海得拉巴的学校了。她们继续学习的原因是这个。
en:This is a place called the Madangiri Settlement Colony,which is a very developed slumabout 25 minutes outside New Delhi,where I met these characterswho showed me around for the day.The remarkable thing about these girls,and the sign of the kind of social revolutionsweeping through the developing worldis that these girls are not married.Ten years ago, they certainly would have been married.Now they&#39;re not married, and they want to go onto study further, to have a career.They&#39;ve been brought up by mothers who are illiterate,who have never ever done homework.All across the developing world there are millions of parents —tens, hundreds of millions —who for the first timeare with children doing homework and exams.And the reason they carry on studyingis not because they went to a school like this.This is a private school.This is a fee-pay school. This is a good school.This is the best you can getin Hyderabad in Indian education.The reason they went on studying was this.
时间： 6:31
zh-cn:这台电脑就装在贫民区的门口装这个的是个给社会带来变革的企业家名字叫苏迦特.米卡他通过最基本的试验给孩子们证明，在合适的条件下他们可以在电脑的帮助下自主学习那些女孩从没碰过谷歌她们对维基百科一无所知想象一下她们的生活会发生什么变化如果你能将这些带给她们。
en:This is a computer installed in the entrance to their slumby a revolutionary social entrepreneurcalled Sugata Mitrawho has conducted the most radical experiments,showing that children, in the right conditions,can learn on their own with the help of computers.Those girls have never touched Google.They know nothing about Wikipedia.Imagine what their lives would be likeif you could get that to them.
时间： 6:56
zh-cn:所以如果你像我一样，通过此项活动来探寻通过观察上百个案例来分析不同的社会企业家在这些非常极端的条件下进行的工作，观察他们想到的为了学习的方法它们跟学校的方式完全不同。那它们是怎么样的呢？改善教育是个全世界都在追求的目标。教育，加上科技给人带来了巨大希望。你可以去这样的地方。
en:So if you look, as I did,through this tour,and by looking at about a hundred case studiesof different social entrepreneursworking in these very extreme conditions,look at the recipes that they come up with for learning,they look nothing like school.What do they look like?Well, education is a global religion.And education, plus technology,is a great source of hope.You can go to places like this.
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:这是一个离圣保罗三小时车程的学校，那里大部分孩子的家长是文盲。很多孩子的家里还没有通上电。但他们会很自然地开始接触电脑，网站，制作视频，等等。当你来到这种地方你看到的是在这种条件下的教育是吸引式的，不是灌输式的。大部分的教育系统是灌输式的。我就是被逼去上学的。在学校里，东西都是灌给你的，知识，考试，制度，课程表。如果你想吸引像胡安得森那样的可能会买枪，带珠宝，骑摩托车，勾搭女孩参与毒品交易的人，你想吸引他去受教育，一个强制性的课表将毫无意义。那没法真正地引起他的兴趣。你需要吸引他。所以教育需要吸引，不能灌输。
en:This is a school three hours outside of Sao Paulo.Most of the children there have parents who are illiterate.Many of them don&#39;t have electricity at home.But they find it completely obviousto use computers, websites,make videos, so on and so forth.When you go to places like thiswhat you see is thateducation in these settingsworks by pull, not push.Most of our education system is push.I was literally pushed to school.When you get to school, things are pushed at you:knowledge, exams,systems, timetables.If you want to attract people like Juandersonwho could, for instance,buy guns, wear jewelry,ride motorbikes and get girlsthrough the drugs trade,and you want to attract him into education,having a compulsory curriculum doesn&#39;t really make sense.That isn&#39;t really going to attract him.You need to pull him.And so education needs to work by pull, not push.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:类似课表这样的想法在这样的环境下是完全不适用的。教育要先从帮助人带来生活上的改变开始而且适用于他们的环境。怎么能做到这个呢？关键是动力，这里包含两个方面.一个是传递外部的动力。也就是受教育是有回报的。我们的教育系统都基于的原则是能带来回报，但你必须得等很长一段时间。如果你是个穷人，等不了那么久。十年才等来教育的回报对于需要养家糊口的人来说太长了，特别是当你有兄弟姐妹需要照看或是家里有生意需要帮忙。所以你需要有相关性的教育，能给人以帮助养家糊口，生活下来。还要从本质上把学习搞得有趣
en:And so the idea of a curriculumis completely irrelevant in a setting like this.You need to start educationfrom things that make a differenceto them in their settings.What does that?Well, the key is motivation, and there are two aspects to it.One is to deliver extrinsic motivation,that education has a payoff.Our education systems all workon the principle that there is a payoff,but you have to wait quite a long time.That&#39;s too long if you&#39;re poor.Waiting 10 years for the payoff from educationis too long when you need to meet daily needs,when you&#39;ve got siblings to look afteror a business to help with.So you need education to be relevant and help peopleto make a living there and then, often.And you also need to make it intrinsically interesting.
时间： 9:08
zh-cn:长此以往，我发现人们会喜欢学习的。这是个了不起的人，塞巴斯蒂安.罗恰在贝洛奥里藏特巴西的第三大城市他研发了两百多种游戏可以教授几乎任何已知的学科在学校和社区那些泰奥工作的地方每一天都是周而复始的总是从一个提问开始想象一下，一个教育系统，从提问开始而不直接传授知识或者从游戏开始，而不是从一堂课或者说从一个前提开始就是你必须先把人吸引过来在那之前你根本不可能教他们。我们的教育系统，所有那些事都是后做的，如果你幸运的话，体育，戏剧，音乐这些学科寓教于乐它们吸引人来学习因为它说到底就是个舞蹈活动项目或者是马戏团活动项目或者，最好的例子是 －委内瑞拉国立青少年管弦乐团系统它是一个音乐项目。你通过它来吸引人们，进而开展学习而不是把活动放在所有的学习之后你的精力到那个时候早用光了
en:So time and again, I found people like this.This is an amazing guy, Sebastiao Rocha,in Belo Horizonte,in the third largest city in Brazil.He&#39;s invented more than 200 gamesto teach virtually any subject under the sun.In the schools and communitiesthat Taio works in,the day always starts in a circleand always starts from a question.Imagine an education system that started from questions,not from knowledge to be imparted,or started from a game, not from a lesson,or started from the premisethat you have to engage people firstbefore you can possibly teach them.Our education systems,you do all that stuff afterward, if you&#39;re lucky,sport, drama, music.These things, they teach through.They attract people to learningbecause it&#39;s really a dance projector a circus projector, the best example of all —El Sistema in Venezuela —it&#39;s a music project.And so you attract people through that into learning,not adding that on afterall the learning has been doneand you&#39;ve eaten your cognitive greens.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:委内瑞拉国立青少年管弦乐团系统用小提琴作为学习的工具泰奥.罗恰用做肥皂作为学习的工具深入到这些计划中你会发现他们利用人员和场地的方式很有创造力大量的互助学习怎么样能让人进行学习在没有老师的情况下学习在老师不愿来，或你付不起钱的情况下甚至是你请来了老师但他们所教授的跟所在社区毫无相关性那么，你就自己创造一个老师可以采用互帮互助学习或者设立辅导教师，还有利用一些特殊技能反正是要想办法让人们学有所用利用各种科技，人员和场地的手段
en:So El Sistema in Venezuelauses a violin as a technology of learning.Taio Rocha uses making soapas a technology of learning.And what you find when you go to these schemesis that they use people and placesin incredibly creative ways.Masses of peer learning.How do you get learning to peoplewhen there are no teachers,when teachers won&#39;t come, when you can&#39;t afford them,and even if you do get teachers,what they teach isn&#39;t relevant to the communities that they serve?Well, you create your own teachers.You create peer-to-peer learning,or you create para-teachers, or you bring in specialist skills.But you find ways to get learning that&#39;s relevant to peoplethrough technology, people and places that are different.
时间：11:00
zh-cn:这是个在巴士车上的学校在一个建筑工地上位于浦那，亚洲发展最快的城市浦那有五千个建筑工地。有三万名儿童在那些建筑工地上。这只是一个城市想象一下，城市飞速扩张之势将席卷发展中地区会有成千上万的儿童将在学龄期间每天泡在工地上这是个非常简便的方案用一辆巴士车让孩子们有学上而且在这里学到的不是什么学术，分析过程而是实际有用的东西一些你能做出来的一些你能从事的，能用来谋生的东西
en:So this is a school in a buson a building sitein Pune, the fastest growing city in Asia.Pune has 5,000 building sites.It has 30,000 childrenon those building sites.That&#39;s one city.Imagine that urban explosionthat&#39;s going to take place across the developing worldand how many thousands of childrenwill spend their school years on building sites.Well, this is a very simple schemeto get the learning to them through a bus.And they all treat learning,not as some sort of academic, analytical activity,but as that&#39;s something that&#39;s productive,something you make,something that you can do, perhaps earn a living from.
时间：11:44
zh-cn:我遇到了一个叫史蒂夫的人他有三年在内罗毕的大街上度过因为他的父母患艾滋病去世了他最终还是上了学，不是为了普通中等教育证书而是学习如何当木匠一项实用的技能。全世界最时髦的学校科技类高中以及其他的它们提倡的办学理念是学以致用在这里，没有其他选择学习内容必须要能致用才有意义
en:So I met this character, Steven.He&#39;d spent three years in Nairobi living on the streetsbecause his parents had died of AIDS.And he was finally brought back into school,not by the offer of GCSEs,but by the offer of learning how to become a carpenter,a practical making skill.So the trendiest schools in the world,High Tech High and others,they espouse a philosophy of learning as productive activity.Here, there isn&#39;t really an option.Learning has to be productivein order for it to make sense.
时间：12:15
zh-cn:最后它们采用一种与众不同的推广模式就是中餐馆式的推广模式这个我是从这人身上学到的这是一个了不起的人他可能是最杰出的社会企业家就全世界教育界而言他的名字是马德哈夫.恰凡他创建了一个叫布拉罕的组织布拉罕开展的是面向学龄前儿童的游戏活动现在在印度，有两千一百万儿童参与它是全世界最大的教育类非政府组织它也援助进入学校的工薪阶层的孩子此人是个彻彻底底的革新者他的工作背景本来是工会组织者他就是在那里学到的管理方法用来建立这个组织
en:And finally, they have a different model of scale,and it&#39;s a Chinese restaurant modelof how to scale.And I learned it from this guy,who is an amazing character.He&#39;s probably the most remarkable social entrepreneurin education in the world.His name is Madhav Chavan,and he created something called Pratham.And Pratham runs preschool play groupsfor, now, 21 million children in India.It&#39;s the largest NGO in education in the world.And it also supports working-class kids going into Indian schools.He&#39;s a complete revolutionary.He&#39;s actually a trade union organizer by background,and that&#39;s how he learned the skillsto build his organization.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:当它们到了一定阶段布拉罕的规模已经达到可以吸引来自麦肯锡的无偿援助麦肯锡的人看了他的运营模式后说“你知道应该怎么来运作它吗，马德哈夫？你应该采用麦当劳模式每到任何一个新地方，你应该开展特许加盟这样你的东西无论到哪都是一个样子此举不但稳妥，且让人一进来就知道他们在哪不会有人出差错”马德哈夫说“我们为什么非那样不可？为什么不能像中餐馆那样搞呢？”
en:When they got to a certain stage,Pratham got big enough to attractsome pro bono support from McKinsey.McKinsey came along and looked at his model and said,&quot;You know what you should do with this, Madhav?You should turn it into McDonald&#39;s.And what you do when you go to any new siteis you kind of roll out a franchise.And it&#39;s the same wherever you go.It&#39;s reliable and people know exactly where they are.And there will be no mistakes.&quot;And Madhav said,&quot;Why do we have to do it that way?Why can&#39;t we do it more like the Chinese restaurants?&quot;
时间：13:26
zh-cn:中餐馆无处不在但却没有一个中餐馆连锁系统可谁都知道中餐馆什么样他们知道店里会有什么，即便店与店会有些不同颜色会有点不一样，名字也不同但你一看就知道这是个中餐馆这些人采用了中餐馆的模式同一个准则， 不同的用途和配置没用麦当劳的模式麦当劳模式是增长型的中餐馆模式是扩散型的
en:There are Chinese restaurants everywhere,but there is no Chinese restaurant chain.Yet, everyone knows what is a Chinese restaurant.They know what to expect, even though it&#39;ll be subtly differentand the colors will be different and the name will be different.You know a Chinese restaurant when you see it.These people work with the Chinese restaurant model —same principles, different applications and different settings —not the McDonald&#39;s model.The McDonald&#39;s model scales.The Chinese restaurant model spreads.
时间：13:54
zh-cn:大众教育最初是社会企业的形式那是在十九世纪而这一特点是我们又重新迫切需要的全世界都是如此这对我们有什么启发呢启发很多因为我们的教育系统在很多方面都是非常失败的它们帮不到那些最需要帮助的人他们经常是找对了对象，办错了事想要的改进越来越难于付诸实施我们对这些系统的信任，非常令人忧心有一个非常简单的方法来理解什么样的创新什么样的新式设计是我们需要的。
en:So mass educationstarted with social entrepreneurshipin the 19th century.And that&#39;s desperately what we need againon a global scale.And what can we learn from all of that?Well, we can learn a lotbecause our education systemsare failing desperately in many ways.They fail to reach the peoplethey most need to serve.They often hit their target but miss the point.Improvement is increasinglydifficult to organize;our faith in these systems, incredibly fraught.And this is just a very simple way ofunderstanding what kind of innovation,what kind of different design we need.
时间：14:34
zh-cn:创新基本有两种类型一种是改良型创新就是改良一个已有的机构或是组织另一种是破坏型创新是打破已有模式，想出一些不同的方式来处理问题在一些正式的地方比如学校，高校，医院是可以进行创新的还有一类是非正式的地方，比如社区家庭，社交网络几乎我们所有的力气都花在这里在那些正式的地方进行改良型创新改良现行的也就是原来的俾斯麦式学校系统它产生于十九世纪正如我描述的，这个模式的问题在于在发展中地区根本就没有师资能让这个模式运转起来你需要成百上千万的老师以供中国，印度，尼日利亚以及其他发展中地区需要在我们的系统里，我们了解到继续这样做不能消除严重的教育不平等特别是在内陆城市和正规的工业区
en:There are two basic types of innovation.There&#39;s sustaining innovation,which will sustain an existing institution or an organization,and disruptive innovationthat will break it apart, create some different way of doing it.There are formal settings —schools, colleges, hospitals —in which innovation can take place,and informal settings — communities,families, social networks.Almost all our effort goes in this box,sustaining innovation in formal settings,getting a better versionof the essentially Bismarckian school systemthat developed in the 19th century.And as I said, the trouble with this is that,in the developing worldthere just aren&#39;t teachers to make this model work.You&#39;d need millions and millions of teachersin China, India, Nigeriaand the rest of developing world to meet need.And in our system, we knowthat simply doing more of this won&#39;t eat intodeep educational inequalities,especially in inner citiesand former industrial areas.
时间：15:33
zh-cn:这就是为什么我们需要另外三种创新我们需要更多的彻底改造放眼世界，你会看到越来越多的学校被彻底改造了它们还可看做是学校，但已大不相同我们有了一些大图学校开设在美国和澳大利亚我们有了一些坎斯卡普.思科兰学校开设在瑞典这十四个孩子中只有两个进了学校大部分人所在的其他那些楼都不是学校。在北昆士兰有一所很棒的学校名字叫嘉灵甘学校这些学校有很相似的特点大量的协作，高度的个性化对高科技的利用大都很普及由提问展开学习从实际困难和活动项目展开学习不是从知识和课程我们毫无疑问需要更多这类东西
en:So that&#39;s why we need three more kinds of innovation.We need more reinvention.And all around the world now you seemore and more schools reinventing themselves.They&#39;re recognizably schools, but they look different.There are Big Picture schoolsin the U.S. and Australia.There are Kunskapsskolan schoolsin Sweden.Of 14 of them,only two of them are in schools.Most of them are in other buildings not designed as schools.There is an amazing school in Northen Queenslandcalled Jaringan.And they all have the same kind of features:highly collaborative, very personalized,often pervasive technology,learning that starts from questionsand problems and projects,not from knowledge and curriculum.So we certainly need more of that.
时间：16:22
zh-cn:但因为很多教育的问题不光发生在学校也发生在家庭和社区你绝对需要更多的在右手边的东西你需要课外类的学校得到援助其中最知名的是意大利的雷乔.艾米利亚家庭式的学习组织它进行辅导并且鼓励在校学生最有意思的是哈林儿童区已有十年历史，是由杰佛瑞.加拿大领导的这个区是个综合体，由学校家庭和社区项目组成他们不光在尝试着改变学校也尝试着给整个社会文化和心态带来改变改变对象是大约一万户住在哈林的家庭我们需要更多这类东西需要绝对革新性的想法你可以在不到一小时车程从这里出发的街道那边的地方，找到需要这些想法的地方那里需要闻所未闻的革新性想法
en:But because so many of the issues in educationaren&#39;t just in school,they&#39;re in family and community,what you also need, definitely,is more on the right hand side.You need efforts to supplement schools.The most famous of these is Reggio Emilia in Italy,the family-based learning systemto support and encourage people in schools.The most exciting is the Harlem Children&#39;s Zone,which over 10 years, led by Geoffrey Canada,has, through a mixture of schoolingand family and community projects,attempted to transform not just education in schools,but the entire culture and aspirationof about 10,000 families in Harlem.We need more of thatcompletely new and radical thinking.You can go to places an hour away, less,from this room,just down the road, which need that,which need radicalism of a kind that we haven&#39;t imagined.
时间：17:19
zh-cn:最后，你需要形式上的创新能让人们接触学习时以一种全新的不一样的方式在2015年，不久的将来一项惊人的成就就在眼前全世界都将实现学校普及化每一个到了十五岁的，想上学的孩子在2015年都能如愿。这太了不起了但其实不像汽车的发展那样的迅速和有序学校的系统很明显是一个十九世纪传承下来的产物是由俾斯麦时期的德国教育模式经过英国人的改良再多次经由传教士带到美国用作增强社会凝聚力的一种工具而后又带到了发展中的日本和韩国
en:And finally, you need transformational innovationthat could imagine getting learning to peoplein completely new and different ways.So we are on the verge, 2015,of an amazing achievement,the schoolification of the world.Every child up to the age of 15 who wants a place in schoolwill be able to have one in 2015.It&#39;s an amazing thing.But it is,unlike cars, which have developedso rapidly and orderly,actually the school system is recognizablyan inheritance from the 19th century,from a Bismarkian model of German schoolingthat got taken up by English reformers,and often byreligious missionaries,taken up in the United Statesas a force of social cohesion,and then in Japan and South Korea as they developed.
时间：18:10
zh-cn:本质里还有它十九世纪的原型当然教育系统已经取得了巨大的成就也将会带来一些很棒的东西它能给人带来技能，学问和知识但它也会浪费想象力浪费求知欲，浪费社会信心它会使社会分化即使它也会使社会自由化我们输送给发展中地区的教育系统需要它们花上一个世纪来改良这就是为什么我们需要真正全新的思考以及为什么全新的思考对于如何学习来说，从未如此可行，如此的需要
en:It&#39;s recognizably 19th century in its roots.And of course it&#39;s a huge achievement.And of course it will bring great things.It will bring skills and learning and reading.But it will also lay waste to imagination.It will lay waste to appetite. It will lay waste to social confidence.It will stratify societyas much as it liberates it.And we are bequeathing to the developing worldschool systems that they will now spenda century trying to reform.That is why we need really radical thinking,and why radical thinking is nowmore possible and more needed than ever in how we learn.
时间：18:44
zh-cn:谢谢大家
en:Thank you. (Applause)
