时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想我还是首先介绍那些创建喷气推进实验室的人们。那时这些人还是一群孩子，他们富于想象力和冒险精神，当时他们在加州理工大学，调配化合物看看哪种调配爆炸威力大一些。不过，我可不想让各位模仿。自然的，他们炸了一个小屋子，和加州理工，然后，喂，你们到干河床去，那里你们可以做所有试验。
en:I thought I&#39;d start with telling you or showing you the people who started [Jet Propulsion Lab].When they were a bunch of kids,they were kind of very imaginative, very adventurous,as they were trying at Caltech to mix chemicalsand see which one blows up more.Well, I don&#39;t recommend that you try to do that now.Naturally, they blew up a shack, and Caltech, well, then,hey, you go to the Arroyo and really do all your tests in there.
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:这就是我们首批五名雇员在茶歇的时候。如我所言，他们都是爱冒险的家伙。实际上，其中他们中的一个，是个邪教徒(Jack Parsons)就在历此不远的奥兰治格罗夫，倒霉的是他把自己炸上了天，因为他一边调配炸药一边想搞明白哪种是最好的炸药。所以您就了解我们那里都是哪类人。我们得小心，别把自己炸上天。
en:So, that&#39;s what we call our first five employeesduring the tea break, you know, in here.As I said, they were adventurous people.As a matter of fact, one of them, who was, kind of, part of a cultwhich was not too far from here on Orange Grove,and unfortunately he blew up himself because he kept mixing chemicalsand trying to figure out which ones were the best chemicals.So, that gives you a kind of flavorof the kind of people we have there.We try to avoid blowing ourselves up.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:这个我想我展示过。猜猜这群人中谁是喷气推进实验室的雇员。今天早上，我也想像他一样光膀子来，不过走出来就觉得太凉快了，所以我还是穿上我的衬衫吧。不过我展示这张照片更重要的原因是：看其他人看哪里，再看看他看哪里。不管别人看什么，我们看其他的做与众不同的事。这就是我们做事的精神。
en:This one I thought I&#39;d show you.Guess which one is a JPL employee in the heart of this crowd.I tried to come like him this morning,but as I walked out, then it was too cold,and I said, I&#39;d better put my shirt back on.But more importantly, the reason I wanted to show this picture:look where the other people are looking,and look where he is looking.Wherever anybody else looks, look somewhere else,and go do something different, you know, and doing that.And that&#39;s kind of what has been the spirit of what we are doing.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:有句拉尔夫•爱默生（美国散文作家、思想家、诗人）的名言我的一个同事，把它挂在了我办公室的墙上，写道：“不要去那些有路可通的地方，而是去那些无路可通的地方并且留下你的足迹”写道：“不要去那些有路可通的地方，而是去那些无路可通的地方并且留下你的足迹”这就是我向大家推荐的：看看别人都在做什么，然后做与众不同的。不要只是想改进一点别人的东西，因为那样你不会取得很大成就。
en:And I want to tell you a quote from Ralph Emersonthat one of my colleagues, you know, put on my wall in my office,and it says, &quot;Do not go where the path may lead.Go instead where there is no path, and leave a trail.&quot;And that&#39;s my recommendation to all of you:look what everybody is doing, what they are doing;go do something completely different.Don&#39;t try to improve a little bit on what somebody else is doing,because that doesn&#39;t get you very far.
时间： 1:50
zh-cn:早些年间，我们常常在火箭上下功夫，不过我们也常常搞一些聚会。你看，这是几年前的一场聚会。不过50年前，发生了一件不同凡响的事，苏联人造卫星发射后。我们发射了第一颗美国卫星，卫星就在左边的照片里。从此我们180度大转弯：我们从一个火箭研究机构，变为一个探索机构。这个转变几年内就完成了，现在我们成了最重要的组织，代表你们所有人探索太空。
en:In our early days we used to work a lot on rockets,but we also used to have a lot of parties, you know.As you can see, one of our parties, you know, a few years ago.But then a big difference happened about 50 years ago,after Sputnik was launched. We launched the first American satellite,and that&#39;s the one you see on the left in there.And here we made 180 degrees change:we changed from a rocket house to be an exploration house.And that was done over a period of a couple of years,and now we are the leading organization, you know,exploring space on all of your behalf.
时间： 2:22
zh-cn:不过即使在我们做事的时候，我们也要提醒自己，挫折在所难免。你看，下面，火箭本应该向上飞的，不过有时候却跑偏了。我们称之为误导导弹。后来，为了纪念一下，我搞了个“误导导弹小姐”的活动
en:But even when we did that, we had to remind ourselves,sometimes there are setbacks.So you see, on the bottom, that rocket was supposed to go upward;somehow it ended going sideways.So that&#39;s what we call the misguided missile.But then also, just to celebrate that,we started an event at JPL for &quot;Miss Guided Missile.&quot;
时间： 2:40
zh-cn:所以，我们每年都搞一次活动选美，游行诸如此类的。现在不合适。有人告诉我搞。我考虑最近不太合适。我们做一些更严肃的事。你看到的就是上次玫瑰花球(rose ball)，我们的火星车上了彩车。左面的是娱乐。右面是火星车刚完成测试准备运道卡纳维拉尔角发射。图上的火星车就是现在在火星的那辆。这就是告诉大家，我们做的娱乐和正经事。这就是告诉大家，我们做的娱乐和正经事。不过我要播放的短片拍的是我们的一个雇员，给你一个我们中一些天才的印象。拍的是我们的一个雇员，给你一个我们中一些天才的印象。
en:So, we used to have a celebration every year and select —there used to be competition and parades and so on.It&#39;s not very appropriate to do it now. Some people tell me to do it;I think, well, that&#39;s not really proper, you know, these days.So, we do something a little bit more serious.And that&#39;s what you see in the last Rose Bowl, you know,when we entered one of the floats.That&#39;s more on the play side. And on the right side,that&#39;s the Rover just before we finished its testingto take it to the Cape to launch it.These are the Rovers up here that you have on Mars now.So that kind of tells you about, kind of, the fun things,you know, and the serious things that we try to do.But I said I&#39;m going to show you a short clipof one of our employees to kind of give you an ideaabout some of the talent that we have.
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:视频：Morgan Hendry: &quot;Beware of Safety&quot;是一个器乐摇滚乐队。视频：Morgan Hendry: &quot;Beware of Safety&quot;是一个器乐摇滚乐队。乐风偏向实验音乐。有即兴爵士乐元素。有重打击摇滚乐元素。把声音向乐器一样处理，可以挖掘更多的抽象声音使演奏更生动，混合了电声乐器和原生乐器。我的工作一半是音乐，另一半也是是最棒的。我的工作一半是音乐，另一半也是是最棒的。我在喷气推进实验室工作。我参与制造火星车。我知道一些最富才气的工程师，也拥有艺术素质。我知道一些最富才气的工程师，也拥有艺术素质。做你想做的事。要是有人说你不行，你不要听他们的。没准他们正确，不过我怀疑它。告诉他们放心，然后做你想做的。我叫Morgan Hendry。我是NASA人。
en:Video: Morgan Hendry: Beware of Safety isan instrumental rock band.It branches on more the experimental side.There&#39;s the improvisational side of jazz.There&#39;s the heavy-hitting sound of rock.Being able to treat sound as an instrument, and be able to digfor more abstract sounds and things to play live,mixing electronics and acoustics.The music&#39;s half of me, but the other half —I landed probably the best gig of all.I work for the Jet Propulsion Lab. I&#39;m building the next Mars Rover.Some of the most brilliant engineers I knoware the ones who have that sort of artistic quality about them.You&#39;ve got to do what you want to do.And anyone who tells you you can&#39;t, you don&#39;t listen to them.Maybe they&#39;re right - I doubt it.Tell them where to put it, and then just do what you want to do.I&#39;m Morgan Hendry. I am NASA.
时间： 4:29
zh-cn:查尔斯·埃拉奇：现在先离开娱乐的东西，转到正事上来。人们老是问我们，我们为什么要探索？我们为什么做这些任务，为什么探索它们？我想原因其实挺简单的。130亿年前的宇宙大爆炸，您听说过一些也就是宇宙的起源。130亿年前的宇宙大爆炸，您听说过一些也就是宇宙的起源。不过触动每个人想象力或者很多人想象力的是，从宇宙大爆炸起直到我们拥有这个我们生存的美丽世界。
en:Charles Elachi: Now, moving from the play stuff to the serious stuff,always people ask, why do we explore?Why are we doing all of these missions and why are we exploring them?Well, the way I think about it is fairly simple.Somehow, 13 billion years ago there was a Big Bang, and you&#39;ve hearda little bit about, you know, the origin of the universe.But somehow what strikes everybody&#39;s imagination —or lots of people&#39;s imagination — somehow from that original Big Bangwe have this beautiful world that we live in today.
时间： 4:54
zh-cn:您看看外面：您拥有所有的美景，您身边所有的生命，地球上有智慧的人类，如你和我在这里进行智慧的谈话。所有这一切起源于宇宙大爆炸。所以问题是：怎么发生的？如何进化的？宇宙怎么形成的？星系如何形成的？行星如何形成的？为什么有个星球就有进化了的生命？这种现象普遍吗?可见的围绕恒星运行的每个行星上都有生命吗?本质上我们都是由星尘构成的。我们起源于星星，我们由星尘构成。所以，下次您很沮丧的时候，照照镜子您可以边看边说，Hi，我在看一颗星（明星）。您可以跳过尘埃这段。不过本质上，我们都是由星尘构成。
en:You look outside: you have all that beauty that you see,all that life that you see around you,and here we have intelligent people like you and Iwho are having a conversation here.All that started from that Big Bang. So, the question is:How did that happen? How did that evolve? How did the universe form?How did the galaxies form? How did the planets form?Why is there a planet on which there is life which have evolved?Is that very common?Is there life on every planet that you can see around the stars?So we literally are all made out of stardust.We started from those stars; we are made of stardust.So, next time you are really depressed, look in the mirrorand you can look and say, hi, I&#39;m looking at a star here.You can skip the dust part.But literally, we are all made of stardust.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:所以，我们所进行的探索，实际上就是在撰写事物进化至今的书。所以，我们所进行的探索，实际上就是在撰写事物进化至今的书。首选的，或者说最容易的，我们可以去火星探索。首选的，或者说最容易的，我们可以去火星探索。之所以火星引起特别的关注：因为它离我们不远。你知道，仅六个月我们就可以到那里。在合适的年份需要六到九个月。火星是个类似地球的星球。稍微小一点儿，火星的组成和地球很相似火星的组成和地球很相似如果不算上海洋的话。（火星没有海洋）火星有极地冰冠。有大气，比地球的要稀薄，所以有天气变化。某些方面与地球非常类似您可以看到类似的地形，诸如火星上的大峡谷，或者我们所称的火星大峡谷。很象地球上的（美国）大峡谷，不过要大的多。
en:So, what we are trying to do in our exploration is effectivelywrite the book of how things have came about as they are today.And one of the first, or the easiest, places we can goand explore that is to go towards Mars.And the reason Mars takes particular attention:it&#39;s not very far from us.You know, it&#39;ll take us only six months to get there.Six to nine months at the right time of the year.It&#39;s a planet somewhat similar to Earth. It&#39;s a little bit smaller,but the land mass on Mars is about the sameas the land mass on Earth, you know,if you don&#39;t take the oceans into account.It has polar caps. It has an atmosphere somewhat thinner than ours,so it has weather. So, it&#39;s very similar to some extent,and you can see some of the features on it,like the Grand Canyon on Mars,or what we call the Grand Canyon on Mars.It is like the Grand Canyon on Earth, except a hell of a lot larger.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:就大小来说，有美国那么大。火星上有火山。火星上的奥林匹斯山，是一个巨型的盾状火山。就高度来说您可以对比一下珠穆朗玛峰，相对于珠穆朗玛峰，奥林匹斯山有多巨大。相对于珠穆朗玛峰，奥林匹斯山有多巨大。地球上的珠穆朗玛峰相形见绌。给您那个星球上的构造活动和火山活动的印象。给您那个星球上的构造活动和火山活动的印象。最近我们的一颗卫星抓拍到了，类似地球上滑坡的发生。最近我们的一颗卫星抓拍到了，类似地球上滑坡的发生。所以它是一个动态行星，在我们说话的时候活动还在进行。
en:So it&#39;s about the size, you know, of the United States.It has volcanoes on it. And that&#39;s Mount Olympus on Mars,which is a kind of huge volcanic shield on that planet.And if you look at the height of itand you compare it to Mount Everest, you see, it&#39;ll give youan idea of how large that Mount Olympus, you know, is,relative to Mount Everest.So, it basically dwarfs, you know, Mount Everest here on Earth.So, that gives you an idea of the tectonic events or volcanic eventswhich have happened on that planet.Recently from one of our satellites, this shows that it&#39;s Earth-like —we caught a landslide occurring as it was happening.So it is a dynamic planet,and activity is going on as we speak today.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:关于火星车，人们想知道，它们现在做什么呢，所以我要展示一些火星车的近况。这是一个大陨石坑。地质学家喜欢陨石坑，因为陨石坑就像是凭空在地上挖个大坑。因为陨石坑就像是凭空在地上挖个大坑。您可以看到地表以下。这就是叫做&quot;维多利亚&quot;坑的火星陨石坑，有几个足球场大小。如果您仔细看左上部，就会看到一个小黑点儿。这张照片拍自一颗在轨卫星。我放大的话，您就可以看到：这就是在地表的火星车。这是从轨道上拍到的，我们可以让相机放大地表，我们可以看到地表上的火星车。我们实际上综合卫星和火星车的照片来指导科学探索，我们实际上综合卫星和火星车的照片来指导科学探索，因为这样我们可以观测到很大一片区域然后就可以开动火星车移动到某一特定地点。然后就可以开动火星车移动到某一特定地点。
en:And these Rovers, people wonder now, what are they doing today,so I thought I would show you a little bit what they are doing.This is one very large crater. Geologists love craters,because craters are like digging a big hole in the groundwithout really working at it,and you can see what&#39;s below the surface.So, this is called Victoria Crater,which is about a few football fields in size.And if you look at the top left, you see a little teeny dark dot.This picture was taken from an orbiting satellite.If I zoom on it, you can see: that&#39;s the Rover on the surface.So, that was taken from orbit; we had the camera zoom on the surface,and we actually saw the Rover on the surface.And we actually used the combination of the satellite imagesand the Rover to actually conduct science,because we can observe large areasand then you can get those Rovers to move aroundand basically go to a certain location.
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:所以我们现在要做的就是让火星车下到坑里去。所以我们现在要做的就是让火星车下到坑里去。如我所言，地质学家爱陨石坑。原因是，你们中很多人到过大峡谷，在大峡谷的石壁上，您可以看到很多地层。这些地层，就是一百万年前一千万年前或一亿年前的地表，这些地层，就是一百万年前一千万年前或一亿年前的地表，您可以从上面提取沉积物。如果你仔细看这些地层，就像是在看一本历史书，您可以学到这里过去历史上发生的事件。您可以学到这里过去历史上发生的事件。
en:So, specifically what we are doing now isthat Rover is going down in that crater.As I told you, geologists love craters.And the reason is, many of you went to the Grand Canyon,and you see in the wall of the Grand Canyon, you see these layers.And what these layers — that&#39;s what the surface used to bea million years ago, 10 million years ago,100 million years ago, and you get deposits on top of them.So if you can read the layers it&#39;s like reading your book,and you can learn the history of what happened in the pastin that location.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:您所看到的就是陨石坑坑壁的地层，火星车准备下去测量，下到坑里测量岩石的属性和成分。下到坑里测量岩石的属性和成分。驶下这样的斜面有些困难。驶下这样的斜面有些困难。如果是你的话你不会直接下去。在下去之前我们都测试了这些火星车，或者说这辆火星车在下去之前我们都测试了这些火星车，或者说这辆火星车确保工作正常。
en:So what you are seeing here are the layers on the wallof that crater, and the Rover is going down now, measuring, you know,the properties and analyzing the rocksas it&#39;s going down, you know, that canyon.Now, it&#39;s kind of a little bit of a challenge drivingdown a slope like this.If you were there you wouldn&#39;t do it yourself.But we really made sure we tested those Roversbefore we got them down — or that Rover —and made sure that it&#39;s all working well.
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:记得我上次来演讲的时候，那还是火星车刚着陆不久我记得好像是着陆100天的时候我告诉大家我感到很意外火星车可以坚持运行100天。四年后，它们还运行正常。现在你会说，查尔斯，你在瞎说，事实恰恰相反。以前我们真的认为火星车只能坚持90到100天，因为它们是太阳能驱动的，火星是有尘土的星球，我们认为尘土会在太阳能电池表面积累，过一段时间我们就不会有足够的电能了，不能保持火星车存活。
en:Now, when I came last time, shortly after the landing —I think it was, like, a hundred days after the landing —I told you I was surprised that those Roversare lasting even a hundred days.Well, here we are four years later, and they&#39;re still working.Now you say, Charles, you are really lying to us, and so on,but that&#39;s not true. We really believed they were going to last90 days or 100 days, because they are solar powered,and Mars is a dusty planet, so we expected the dustwould start accumulating on the surface, and after a whilewe wouldn&#39;t have enough power, you know, to keep them warm.
时间： 9:22
zh-cn:我总是说聪明很重要，不过偶尔幸运也是好事。这是我们发现的。后来证明偶尔会有尘旋风刮过火星，如你所见，尘旋风刮过火星车后，火星车上的尘土就被吹干净了。就像一辆崭新的小车，这就是火星车存活长久的原因。当然火星车设计的不错，不过尘旋风才火星车存活如此之久的原因直到现在还在发送各类科学数据。现在两辆火星车都有点变得老旧了。其中一辆一个轮子卡住了，是一个前轮，所以我们只能倒车行驶。是一个前轮，所以我们只能倒车行驶。另一辆火星车机器关节有点关节炎，运行不太好，走起来像这样，我们可以这样移动机器臂。不过它们还继续提供大量科学数据。在整个运行期间有不少人得到灵感，是科学圈子以外的人关心火星车，我想我要放一段视频，考虑一下科学圈子以外的认识如何看待火星车的。我想我要放一段视频，考虑一下科学圈子以外的认识如何看待火星车的。我想我要放一段视频，考虑一下科学圈子以外的认识如何看待火星车的。
en:Well, I always say it&#39;s important that you are smart,but every once in a while it&#39;s good to be lucky.And that&#39;s what we found out. It turned out that every once in a whilethere are dust devils which come by on Mars, as you are seeing here,and when the dust devil comes over the Rover, it just cleans it up.It is like a brand new car that you have,and that&#39;s literally why they have lasted so long.And now we designed them reasonably well,but that&#39;s exactly why they are lasting that longand still providing all the science data.Now, the two Rovers, each one of them is, kind of, getting old.You know, one of them, one of the wheels is stuck, is not working,one of the front wheels, so what we are doing,we are driving it backwards.And the other one has arthritis of the shoulder joint, you know,it&#39;s not working very well, so it&#39;s walking like this,and we can move the arm, you know, that way.But still they are producing a lot of scientific data.Now, during that whole period, a number of people got excited,you know, outside the science community about these Rovers,so I thought I&#39;d show you a video just to give you a reflectionabout how these Rovers are being viewed by peopleother than the science community.
时间：10:27
zh-cn:让我播放下一个视频.顺便说一下,这段视频反映的四年前的着陆过程还是相当准确的。顺便说一下,这段视频反映的四年前的着陆过程还是相当准确的。视频：Ok，降落伞打开。Ok，[声音不清楚]。打开。照相机。我们收到图片。Yeah!在休斯敦的控制室当时就这样。非常像。现在，如果那里有生命的话荷兰人会找到的。他在干什么？那是什么？还不错。
en:So let me go on the next short video.By the way, this video is pretty accurate of how the landing took place, you know,about four years ago.Video: Okay, we have parachute aligned.Okay, deploy the airbags. Open.Camera. We have a picture right now.Yeah!CE: That&#39;s about what happened in the Houston operation room. It&#39;s exactly like this.Video: Now, if there is life, the Dutch will find it.What is he doing?What is that?CE: Not too bad.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:CE：我再展示一些火星的美景。CE：我再展示一些火星的美景。就像我刚才说的，火星非常类似地球，看看沙丘。如果我告诉你这些照片是拍自撒哈拉沙漠一类的地方，你也会相信，不过这些照片是拍自火星。其中有一个区域特别吸引我们火星北部地区，靠近北极，因为我们看到冰盖，我们看到冰盖收缩扩张，类似您在加拿大北部看到的。我们想找到，我们看到了各类的冰川地貌。我们想弄明白，实际上，冰的成分，其中含有什么。有机物，物质。
en:So anyway, let me continue on showing you a little bitabout the beauty of that planet.As I said earlier, it looked very much like Earth,so you see sand dunes.It looks like I could have told you these are pictures takenfrom the Sahara Desert or somewhere, and you&#39;d have believed me,but these are pictures taken from Mars.But one area which is particularly intriguing for usis the northern region, you know, of Mars, close to the North Pole,because we see ice caps, and we see the ice caps shrinkingand expanding, so it&#39;s very much like you have in northern Canada.And we wanted to find out — and we see all kinds of glacial features on it.So, we wanted to find out, actually,what is that ice made of, and could that have embedded in itsome organic, you know, material.
时间：12:09
zh-cn:我们有个航天器正飞向火星，叫做“凤凰号”，还有17天7小时20秒就要着陆火星了，叫做“凤凰号”，还有17天7小时20秒就要着陆火星了，您可以对对表。五月25号西海岸时间5点钟之前，我们将着陆另一个星球。五月25号西海岸时间5点钟之前，我们将着陆另一个星球。如你所见，这是探测器着陆火星后的效果图，不过我想您万一错过了17天后的节目，我这里播放给您看看着陆场面。
en:So we have a spacecraft which is heading towards Mars,called Phoenix, and that spacecraft will land17 days, seven hours and 20 seconds from now,so you can adjust your watch.So it&#39;s on May 25 around just before five o&#39;clock our time hereon the West Coast, actually we will be landing on another planet.And as you can see, this is a picture of the spacecraft put on Mars,but I thought that just in case you&#39;re going to miss that show, you know,in 17 days, I&#39;ll show you, kind of,a little bit of what&#39;s going to happen.
时间：12:38
zh-cn:视频：这就是被我们称为恐怖的7分钟。计划是挖掘土壤和采样然后放到一个炉子里加热看看会有什么气体产生。这是9个月以前发射的。要在七分钟里从时速12000英里减速到零轻柔的降落在火星地表不能撞坏我们的探测器。
en:Video: That&#39;s what we call the seven minutes of terror.So the plan is to dig in the soil and take samplesthat we put them in an oven and actually heat themand look what gases will come from it.So this was launched about nine months ago.We&#39;ll be coming in at 12,000 miles per hour, and in seven minuteswe have to stop and touch the surface very softlyso we don&#39;t break that lander.
时间：13:33
zh-cn:Ben Cichy：凤凰号是首次[声音不清楚]。是首个要着陆火星北极附近的任务，也是首次是首个要着陆火星北极附近的任务，也是首次将要在另一个星球上接触到水。将要在另一个星球上接触到水。
en:Ben Cichy: Phoenix is the first Mars Scout mission.It&#39;s the first mission that&#39;s going to try to landnear the North Pole of Mars, and it&#39;s the first missionthat&#39;s actually going to try and reach out and touch wateron the surface of another planet.
时间：13:44
zh-cn:Lynn Craig：至少在地球上是，哪里有水哪里就会有生命，所以那里是个潜在的地点可能在火星上过去存在生命。
en:Lynn Craig: Where there tends to be water, at least on Earth,there tends to be life, and so it&#39;s potentially a placewhere life could have existed on the planet in the past.
时间：13:58
zh-cn:Erik Bailey：在EDL(进入、下降和着陆)过程中，航天器将会在短时间内柔和的从12500英里每小时减速为零。在短时间内柔和的从12500英里每小时减速为零。BC：我们进入火星大气。离火星地表70英里。着陆器折叠收缩在我称之为空天穿梭机（aero-shuttle）内。
en:Erik Bailey: The main purpose of EDL is to take a spacecraft that is travelingat 12,500 miles an hour and bring it to a screeching haltin a soft way in a very short amount of time.BC: We enter the Martian atmosphere.We&#39;re 70 miles above the surface of Mars.And our lander is safely tucked inside what we call an aeroshell.
时间：14:18
zh-cn:EB：看上去像(装冰淇淋之)锥形蛋卷。
en:EB: Looks kind of like an ice cream cone, more or less.
时间：14:20
zh-cn:BC：正面是隔热罩，有点像飞碟，大约半英尺厚隔热材料覆盖在正面，就是我们的隔热罩。这是特别的盖子，这个盖子会在进入大气层的时候防止空气摩擦的高温。这个盖子会在进入大气层的时候防止空气摩擦的高温。
en:BC: And on the front of it is this heat shield,this saucer-looking thing that has about a half-inchof essentially what&#39;s cork on the front of it,which is our heat shield.Now, this is really special cork,and this cork is what&#39;s going to protect usfrom the violent atmospheric entry that we&#39;re about to experience.
时间：14:36
zh-cn:Rob Grover：航天器会与大气产生空气摩擦阻力利用飞越大气层时的空气摩擦力减速。利用飞越大气层时的空气摩擦力减速。BC：从这一点，我们将要从时速12500英里减速到时速900英里。BC：从这一点，我们将要从时速12500英里减速到时速900英里。
en:Rob Grover: Friction really starts to build up on the spacecraft,and we use the friction when it&#39;s flying through the atmosphereto our advantage to slow us down.BC: From this point, we&#39;re going to decelerate from 12,500 miles an hourdown to 900 miles an hour.
时间：14:52
zh-cn:EB：外罩的高温可以达到太阳表面的温度。
en:EB: The outside can get almost as hot as the surface of the Sun.
时间：14:54
zh-cn:RG：隔热罩的温度可以达到2600华氏度。
en:RG: The temperature of the heat shield can reach 2,600 degrees Fahrenheit.
时间：15:00
zh-cn:EB：内部温度不会很高。大约会达到室温。Richard Kornfeld：之后的窗口期我们可以打开降落伞。
en:EB: The inside doesn&#39;t get very hot.It probably gets about room temperature.Richard Kornfeld: There is this window of opportunitywithin which we can deploy the parachute.
时间：15:11
zh-cn:EB：如果降落伞打开得太早，降落伞就会损坏。布料和接缝就会扯开。那就糟了。
en:EB: If you fire the &#39;chute too early, the parachute itself could fail.The fabric and the stitching could just pull apart.And that would be bad.
时间：15:21
zh-cn:BC：打开降落伞的头15秒钟，会从900英里每小时降到250英里每小时。会从900英里每小时降到250英里每小时。这时就不再需要隔热罩保护我们进入大气层了，所以我们丢弃隔热罩，这时就不再需要隔热罩保护我们进入大气层了，所以我们丢弃隔热罩，着陆器第一次暴露在火星大气层中。
en:BC: In the first 15 seconds after we deploy the parachute,we&#39;ll decelerate from 900 miles an hourto a relatively slow 250 miles an hour.We no longer need the heat shield to protect usfrom the force of atmospheric entry, so we jettison the heat shield,exposing for the first time our lander to the atmosphere of Mars.
时间：15:38
zh-cn:LC：隔热罩丢弃后，着陆架打开，下一步是雷达系统探测测量凤凰号离地高度。
en:LC: After the heat shield has been jettisoned and the legs are deployed,the next step is to have the radar system begin to detecthow far Phoenix really is from the ground.
时间：15:50
zh-cn:BC：我们减掉了进入大气层时99%的速度。我们完成目标的99%。不过最后的1%，总是最棘手的部分。
en:BC: We&#39;ve lost 99 percent of our entry velocity.So, we&#39;re 99 percent of the way to where we want to be.But that last one percent, as it always seems to be, is the tricky part.
时间：15:59
zh-cn:EB：现在航天器自主决定何时抛掉降落伞。
en:EB: Now the spacecraft actually has to decidewhen it&#39;s going to get rid of its parachute.
时间：16:04
zh-cn:BC：在离火星地表一公里(3200英尺)处，时速125英里时，着陆器脱离。BC：在离火星地表一公里(3200英尺)处，时速125英里时，着陆器脱离。高度是两个帝国大厦摞起来那么高。高度是两个帝国大厦摞起来那么高。
en:BC: We separate from the lander going 125 miles an hourat roughly a kilometer above the surface of Mars: 3,200 feet.That&#39;s like taking two Empire State Buildingsand stacking them on top of one another.
时间：16:13
zh-cn:EB：从底盖分离后，自由落体。非常可怕的时刻，短时间内会出各种状况。非常可怕的时刻，短时间内会出各种状况。LC：它是个自由落体，着陆器利用所有传感器确保它降落在正确的地点。
en:EB: That&#39;s when we separate from the back shell,and we&#39;re now in free-fall.It&#39;s a very scary moment; a lot has to happenin a very short amount of time.LC: So it&#39;s in a free-fall,but it&#39;s also trying to use all of its actuatorsto make sure that it&#39;s in the right position to land.
时间：16:34
zh-cn:EB：然后自主的制动发动机点火，慢慢减速，直到安全着陆。
en:EB: And then it has to light up its engines, right itself,and then slowly slow itself down and touch down on the ground safely.
时间：16:48
zh-cn:BC：地球和火星之间的距离很遥远，需要10分钟火星发的信号才能抵达地球。EDL（进入、下降和着陆）仅在7分钟内就完成。实际上当我们知道着落器开始EDL（进入、下降和着陆）过程时EDL（进入、下降和着陆）其实已经结束了。
en:BC: Earth and Mars are so far apart that it takes over ten minutesfor a signal from Mars to get to Earth.And EDL itself is all over in a matter of seven minutes.So by the time you even hear from the lander that EDL has startedit&#39;ll already be over.
时间：17:01
zh-cn:EB：航天器设计的很自动化这样它才能自主安全着陆。
en:EB: We have to build large amounts of autonomy into the spacecraftso that it can land itself safely.
时间：17:07
zh-cn:BC：EDL（进入、下降和着陆）就是极大的技术难题。就是一个航天器飞速冲入外太空然后用一套措施设法减速为零降落在火星表面。然后用一套措施设法减速为零降落在火星表面。这是一个令人兴奋的巨大的挑战。
en:BC: EDL is this immense, technically challenging problem.It&#39;s about getting a spacecraft that&#39;s hurtling through deep spaceand using all this bag of tricks to somehow figure outhow to get it down to the surface of Mars at zero miles an hour.It&#39;s this immensely exciting and challenging problem.
时间：17:28
zh-cn:CE：希望着陆过程如我们所见的这样顺利。那将是一个非常紧张的时刻，我们将目睹航天器降落在另一个行星上。
en:CE: Hopefully it all will happen the way you saw it in here.So it will be a very tense moment, you know,as we are watching that spacecraft landing on another planet.
时间：17:38
zh-cn:接下来讲一讲我们的下一步计划。我们正在设计下一代火星车的流程中。我们正在设计下一代火星车的过程中。我多说一下，我们做过的步骤。非常类似设计新产品。如刚才所见，当我们设计凤凰号时，我们得考虑进入大气层时的温度问题。所以我们必须研究各种不同的材料，所需形状。总的来讲我们不必取悦顾客。我们做要做的，就是确保设计一部有效的机器。我们做要做的，就是确保设计一部有效的机器。
en:So now let me talk about the next things that we are doing.So we are in the process, as we speak, of actually designingthe next Rover that we are going to be sending to Mars.So I thought I would go a little bit and tell you, kind of,the steps we go through.It&#39;s very similar to what you do when you design your product.As you saw a little bit earlier,when we were doing the Phoenix one,we have to take into account the heat that we are going to be facing.So we have to study all kinds of different materials,the shape that we want to do.In general we don&#39;t try to please the customer here.What we want to do is to make sure we have an effective, you know,an efficient kind of machine.
时间：18:09
zh-cn:首先我们一开始就要求我们的雇员充满想象力。首先我们一开始就要求我们的雇员充满想象力。我们很喜欢离艺术中心很近，因为实际上，我们有个从艺术中心来的校友，Eric Nyquist，搞了一系列的展示，深空展示，摆放在我们的任务设计或者是航天器设计室内，好让人们自由的思考。我们有一堆乐高玩具。这里就是成人的娱乐场，他们坐下来玩做出不同形状，不同设计。
en:First we start by we want to have our employeesto be as imaginative as they can.And we really love being close to the art center, because we have,as a matter of fact, one of the alumni from the art center,Eric Nyquist, had put a series of displays,far-out displays, you know,in our what we call mission design or spacecraft design room,just to get people to think wildly about things.We have a bunch of Legos. So, as I said,this is a playground for adults, where they sit down and try to playwith different shapes and different designs.
时间：18:38
zh-cn:然后我们再认真一点，进入到CAD/CAM(计算机辅助设计制造)，所有参与的工程师科学家，了解热学性能的，懂得设计的，了解大气层作用的，降落伞的，汇集这一切，团队协作实际在计算机里设计航天器，看看是否符合我们的需求。而且，我们还要考虑我们的目标星球的环境。而且，我们还要考虑我们的目标星球的环境。如果要飞到木星，那里有非常高的辐射，木星里的辐射强度和核反应堆里的一样高。木星里的辐射强度和核反应堆里的一样高。
en:Then we get a little bit more serious, so we havewhat we call our CAD/CAMs and all the engineers who are involved,or scientists who are involved, who know about thermal properties,know about design, know about atmospheric interaction, parachutes,all of these things, which they work in a team effortand actually design a spacecraft in a computer to some extent,so to see, does that meet the requirement that we need.On the right, also, we have to take into accountthe environment of the planet where we are going.If you are going to Jupiter, you have a very high-radiation,you know, environment. It&#39;s about the same radiation environmentclose by Jupiter as inside a nuclear reactor.
时间：19:12
zh-cn:想象一下，把你的PC扔到核反应堆中还要正常运行。想象一下，把你的PC扔到核反应堆中还要正常运行。这就是我们面临的一些小挑战。这就是我们面临的一些小挑战。要进入大气层，我们就要测试降落伞。您看视频中降落伞撕裂。那是糟糕的一天，如果发生了这个，我们就需要测试，因为我们要在超音速的情况下打开降落伞。我们在极高速时打开降落伞减速。所以我们必须做各类的实验。给您一个直观印象，这是降落伞和站着的人对比。给您一个直观印象，这是降落伞和站着的人对比。
en:So just imagine: you take your P.C. and throw it into a nuclear reactorand it still has to work.So these are kind of some of the little challenges, you know,that we have to face.If we are doing entry, we have to do tests of parachutes.You saw in the video a parachute breaking. That would be a bad day,you know, if that happened, so we have to test,because we are deploying this parachute at supersonic speeds.We are coming at extremely high speeds, and we are deploying themto slow us down. So we have to do all kinds of tests.To give you an idea of the size, you know, of that parachuterelative to the people standing there.
时间：19:43
zh-cn:下一步，我们就要实际造一些测试模型实际测试它们，就在JPL的实验室里，我们称之为“火星场 ”（Mars Yard）。踢它们，敲它们，丢它们，就是为了确保我们完全了解哪里会出问题。然后修改。然后我们实际造并试飞。这是下一代火星车，有一辆小汽车大小。外面的大罩子，就是起保护作用的隔热罩。基本上明年就可以建成了，明年六月就将发射。这种情况下，这是一个非常大的火星车，我们不能用气囊了。我知道，上次演讲后很多人都说气囊的设计非常酷。不过新火星车与原来的火星车比大了十倍，重了三倍。不过新火星车与原来的火星车比大了十倍，重了三倍。所以我们用不了气囊了。所以我们用了另一个新颖的设想，实现着陆。我们不想它一直推进到地面因为我们不想污染地表，我们想让火星车直接用着陆架着地。
en:Next step, we go and actually build some kind of test modelsand actually test them, you know, in the lab at JPL,in what we call our Mars Yard.We kick them, we hit them, we drop them,just to make sure we understand how, where would they break.And then we back off, you know, from that point.And then we actually do the actual building and the flight.And this next Rover that we&#39;re flying is about the size of a car.That big shield that you see outside,that&#39;s a heat shield which is going to protect it.And that will be basically built over the next year,and it will be launched June a year from now.Now, in that case, because it was a very big Rover,we couldn&#39;t use airbags.And I know many of you, kind of, last time afterwards saidwell, that was a cool thing to have — those airbags.Unfortunately this Rover is, like, ten times the size of the, you know,mass-wise, of the other Rover, or three times the mass.So we can&#39;t use airbags. So we have to come up withanother ingenious idea of how do we land it.And we didn&#39;t want to take it propulsively all the way to the surfacebecause we didn&#39;t want to contaminate the surface;we wanted the Rover to immediately land on its legs.
时间：20:51
zh-cn:所以我们想出了这个新颖的方案，类似地球上的直升机。实际上，着陆器会悬浮在100英尺高度然后用空中吊臂把火星车降到地表。希望运行良好，火星车将以这种方式运作。火星车更像化学家了。火星车到处开的时候，它就可以分析岩石的化学成分。它会有个机器臂采样，放在一个炉子里，粉碎并分析。如果火星车不能够到得地方如岩壁太高，我们会用小激光器瞄准岩石，气化一部分，然后分析其中的构成。有点像星球大战，不过这是真的。是真东西。同时服务您，服务社会您可以在火星上打广告，我们可以训练火星车附带做这些，提供鸡尾酒，在火星上。
en:So we came up with this ingenious idea,which is used here on Earth for helicopters.Actually, the lander will come down to about 100 feet and hoverabove that surface for 100 feet, and then we have a sky cranewhich will take that Rover and land it down on the surface.Hopefully it all will work, you know, it will work that way.And that Rover will be more kind of like a chemist.What we are going to be doing with that Rover as it drives around,it&#39;s going to go and analyze the chemical composition of rocks.So it will have an arm which will take samples,put them in an oven, crush and analyze them.But also, if there is something that we cannot reachbecause it is too high on a cliff, we have a little laser systemwhich will actually zap the rock, evaporate some of it,and actually analyze what&#39;s coming from that rock.So it&#39;s a little bit like &quot;Star Wars,&quot; you know, but it&#39;s real.It&#39;s real stuff.And also to help you, to help the communityso you can do ads on that Rover, we are going to train that Roverto actually in addition to do this, to actually serve cocktails,you know, also on Mars.
时间：21:50
zh-cn:这可以给您一个主意，我们可以在火星上做些有趣的事。这可以给您一个主意，我们可以在火星上做些有趣的事。我想我要去“魔戒”展示一些我们有的。“魔戒”有两个东西展示。一个，它是一个非常有吸引力的行星它有美丽的环。不过对于科学家，这个环有着特殊的意义，因为我们相信它们代表，一个小规模的，太阳系的形成过程。一些科学家相信，太阳系就是这样形成的，当太阳诞生的时候，有很多尘埃围绕着它然后在环中有些东西聚集在一起，然后形成大岩块，然后形成行星，这样形成。
en:So that&#39;s kind of giving you an idea of the kind of, you know,fun things we are doing on Mars.I thought I&#39;d go to &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; nowand show you some of the things we have there.Now, &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; has two things played through it.One, it&#39;s a very attractive planet —it just has the beauty of the rings and so on.But for scientists, also the rings have a special meaning,because we believe they represent, on a small scale,how the Solar System actually formed.Some of the scientists believe that the way the Solar System formed,that the Sun when it collapsed and actually created the Sun,a lot of the dust around it created ringsand then the particles in those rings accumulated together,and they formed bigger rocks, and then that&#39;s how the planets,you know, were formed.
时间：22:33
zh-cn:观点是，通过观察土星环我们可以了解我们太阳系是怎样形成的，就像个测试平台。让我展示一些土星系统。首先，让我们飞跃土星环。提一下，所有这些都是真的。这不是动画，或者其他东西。这实际上是拍自卫星环绕土星轨道的卡西尼号。您可以看到大量土星环的细节，是些微粒。有一些累积在一起形成大的颗粒。这就是为什么土星环有间断，因为形成了小卫星了，在那个位置形成。现在，您认为这些环非常大。没错，它们在宽多上很大，不过厚度却和纸一样薄。非常非常薄。这是土星环在土星上的影子。这是其中一颗卫星就是由此形成的。所以想象它如纸薄，广大的区域成千上万英里，环绕着。
en:So, the idea is, by watching Saturn we&#39;re actually watchingour solar system in real time being formed on a smaller scale,so it&#39;s like a test bed for it.So, let me show you a little biton what that Saturnian system looks like.First, I&#39;m going to fly you over the rings.By the way, all of this is real stuff.This is not animation or anything like this.This is actually taken from the satellitethat we have in orbit around Saturn, the Cassini.And you see the amount of detail that is in those rings,which are the particles.Some of them are agglomerating together to form larger particles.So that&#39;s why you have these gaps, is because a small satellite, you know,is being formed in that location.Now, you think that those rings are very large objects.Yes, they are very large in one dimension;in the other dimension they are paper thin. Very, very thin.What you are seeing here is the shadow of the ring on Saturn itself.And that&#39;s one of the satelliteswhich was actually formed on that one.So, think about it as a paper-thin,huge area of many hundreds of thousands of miles, which is rotating.
时间：23:34
zh-cn:将有各类不同卫星形成，每个都奇形怪状，这会让科学家们忙上数十年，来解释这些东西，然后告所NASA我们需要更多钱来探索为什么这些东西长成这样，或者为什么那样形成。其中有两颗卫星非常有趣。一个叫Enceladus（土卫二）这颗卫星由冰构成，从轨道上测量。由冰构成。不过有些不寻常的东西。看这些斑纹，我们称之为虎皮斑纹，当我们飞跃它们时，忽然我们发现温度的升高，就是说这些斑纹比星球上其他地方要热。
en:And we have a wide variety of kind of satellites which will form,each one looking very different and very odd, and that keepsscientists busy for tens of years trying to explain this,and telling NASA we need more money so we can explainwhat these things look like, or why they formed that way.Well, there were two satellites which were particularly interesting.One of them is called Enceladus.It&#39;s a satellite which was all made of ice,and we measured it from orbit. Made of ice.But there was something bizarre about it.If you look at these stripes in here, what we call tiger stripes,when we flew over them, all of a sudden we sawan increase in the temperature, which said that those stripesare warmer than the rest of the planet.
时间：24:11
zh-cn:当我们飞过去回望的时候。猜猜看我们看到了间歇泉。这是土星的黄石公园。我们看到冰的间歇泉，从星球上喷出。这表明很有可能有海洋，在地表以下。由于动力效应，我们有了这些间歇泉从此喷发出来。我在这里标注了距离，应该是30英里，几个月以前我们让航天器飞越了间歇泉的漂浮物这样我们就可以实际测量物质组成。40英里高，因为我们担心风险，不过它干的的不错。航天器飞越顶部，我们发现相当多的有机物，混在喷出的冰当中。之后几年，我们会继续环绕土星，我们计划越来越靠近地表进行更精确的测量。
en:So as we flew by away from it, we looked back. And guess what?We saw geysers coming out.So this is a Yellowstone, you know, of Saturn.We are seeing geysers of ice which are coming out of that planet,which indicate that most likely there is an ocean, you know,below the surface.And somehow, through some dynamic effect, we&#39;re having these geyserswhich are being, you know, emitted from it.And the reason I showed the little arrow there,I think that should say 30 miles,we decided a few months ago to actually fly the spacecraftthrough the plume of that geyserso we can actually measure the material that it is made of.That was [unclear] also — you know, because we were worriedabout the risk of it, but it worked pretty well.We flew at the top of it, and we found that there is a fair amount oforganic material which is being emitted in combination with the ice.And over the next few years, as we keep orbiting, you know, Saturn,we are planning to get closer and closer down to the surfaceand make more accurate measurements.
时间：25:09
zh-cn:现在另一颗卫星引起了广泛关注，Titan(土卫六)。土卫六引起关注的原因是，它是一颗比我们月亮大的卫星，它有大气层。大气密度和我们的大气差不多。如果你在土卫六上，会感觉到同样的气压就像在地球。只不过凉了一点，它的大气层主要由甲烷构成。甲烷让人兴奋，因为它是有机物，人们马上想到，生命可以在此进化，如果找到有机物。人们相信土卫六最象生命起源星球，因为它太冷了有机物不能生成生物物质，由此才能有生命进化。
en:Now, another satellite also attracted a lot of attention,and that&#39;s Titan. And the reason Titan is particularly interesting,it&#39;s a satellite bigger than our moon, and it has an atmosphere.And that atmosphere is very — as dense as our own atmosphere.So if you were on Titan, you would feel the same pressurethat you feel in here. Except it&#39;s a lot colder,and that atmosphere is heavily made of methane.Now, methane gets people all excited, because it&#39;s organic material,so immediately people start thinking,could life have evolved in that location,when you have a lot of organic material.So people believe now that Titan is most likely what we calla pre-biotic planet, because it&#39;s so cold organic material did not getto the stage of becoming biological material,and therefore life could have evolved on it.
时间：25:56
zh-cn:它就像地球，封冻了30亿年然后才开始有生机。所以很有意思，展示几个例子我们投下了一个探测器，是由我们欧洲的同事开发的，在围绕土星运行时投下一个探测器。是由我们欧洲的同事开发的，在围绕土星运行时投下一个探测器。我们投下了一个探测器到土卫六大气层。这幅照片就是我们下降的区域。对我来说就像加利福尼亚的海岸。可以看到河流沿着海岸，那个白色区域就像卡特琳娜岛，看上去像个海洋。通过搭载的仪器，一个雷达仪器，我们发现了湖泊，就像这里的五大湖，很象地球。看上去有河流，海洋或湖泊，有云彩。我们认为还有降雨。非常类似地球的循环，不过那里非常冷，不是水，水会结冰的。这些看上去是液体的东西，应该是烃和乙烷和甲烷，就像加入油箱里的东西。
en:So it could be Earth, frozen three billion years agobefore life actually started on it.So that&#39;s getting a lot of interest, and to show you some exampleof what we did in there, we actually dropped a probe,which was developed by our colleagues in Europe, we dropped a probeas we were orbiting Saturn.We dropped a probe in the atmosphere of Titan.And this is a picture of an area as we were coming down.Just looked like the coast of California for me.You see the rivers which are coming along the coast,and you see that white area which looks like Catalina Island,and that looks like an ocean.And then with an instrument we have on board, a radar instrument,we found there are lakes like the Great Lakes in here,so it looks very much like Earth.It looks like there are rivers on it, there are oceans or lakes,we know there are clouds. We think it&#39;s raining also on it.So it&#39;s very much like the cycle on Earth exceptbecause it&#39;s so cold, it could not be water, you know,because water would have frozen.What it turned out, that all that we are seeing, all this liquid,[is made of] hydrocarbon and ethane and methane,similar to what you put in your car.
时间：26:56
zh-cn:这个星球的循环非常类似地球，不过是由乙烷和甲烷以及有机物构成。如果你在土卫六上，你不用担心4美元的汽油。开到附近湖边，用胶皮管灌就可以了，可以加满汽车。另一方面，如果你划着一个火柴整个星球都会爆炸。在结尾，我想在以几幅照片做结尾。就是让大家思考，这是航天器从土星背后回望太阳拍摄的照片。这是航天器从土星背后回望太阳拍摄的照片。太阳在土星之后，我们称之为前向散射“forward scattering”照亮了土星环。我放大一下。我不太清楚您能不能看见，在左上，十点钟方向，有一个黑点，那是地球。我们能看到我们的星球。我放大照片当你放大的时候，你可以看到地球，就在中间。因此，我们一直放大到艺术中心。
en:So here we have a cycle of a planet which is like our Earth,but is all made of ethane and methane and organic material.So if you were on Mars — sorry, on Titan,you don&#39;t have to worry about four-dollar gasoline.You just drive to the nearest lake, stick your hose in it,and you&#39;ve got your car filled up.On the other hand, if you light a matchthe whole planet will blow up.So in closing, I said I want to close by a couple of pictures.And just to kind of put us in perspective,this is a picture of Saturn taken with a spacecraftfrom behind Saturn, looking towards the Sun.The Sun is behind Saturn, so we see what we call &quot;forward scattering,&quot;so it highlights all the rings. And I&#39;m going to zoom.There is a — I&#39;m not sure you can see it very well,but on the top left, around 10 o&#39;clock,there is a little teeny dot, and that&#39;s Earth.You barely can see ourselves. So what I did, I thought I&#39;d zoom on it.So as you zoom in, you know, you can see Earth, you know,just in the middle here. So we zoomed all the way on the art center.
时间：28:01
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:So thank you very much.
