时间： 0:11
zh-cn:宗教信仰不仅仅是种信念。它是种力量，是种影响。每天都影响我们每个人，无论你怎么想。尽管现在宗教信仰在世界上有庞大的影响，然而我们并不以同一标准的审查和责任制度来对待宗教，相对于社会的其他方面。举例来说，假设现在有一家跨国组织、政府或者企业，董事会领导中没有女性，没有一位女性能拥有决策权，也没有一位女性能够掌管财政事务，我们会十分愤怒。这将会得到制裁。然而，这几乎是全世界宗教的惯例。
en:Religion is more than belief.It&#39;s power, and it&#39;s influence.And that influence affects all of us,every day, regardless of your own belief.Despite the enormous influenceof religion on the world today,we hold them to a different standardof scrutiny and accountabilitythan any other sector of our society.For example, if there werea multinational organization,government or corporation todaythat said no femalecould be on a leadership board,not one woman could havea decision-making authority,not one woman could handleany financial matter,we would have outrage.There would be sanctions.And yet this is a common practicein almost every world religion today.
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:我们在宗教生活中接受这种假设，但我们在世俗生活却拒绝，我知道这些，是因为我经历了三十年这样的事情。在我的成长过程中，我与各种形式的性别歧视做抗争。我和男孩子一起玩篮球。我曾说我将成为美国第一任女性总统。我一直在为已经废弃了40年的《男女平权修正案》而努力。不论在我的父方还是母方，我都是家族的第一位女性在外头上班和接受高等教育
en:We accept things in our religious livesthat we do not acceptin our secular lives,and I know this because I&#39;ve beendoing it for three decades.I was the type of girl that fought everyform of gender discrimination growing up.I played pickup basketball gameswith the boys and inserted myself.I said I was going to be the firstfemale President of the United States.I have been fightingfor the Equal Rights Amendment,which has been dead for 40 years.I&#39;m the first womanin both sides of my familyto ever work outside the homeand ever receive a higher education.
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:我从不接受因为我是一名女性就得被排除在外除了在我的宗教里。在那整整一段时间里，我曾是传统父权制的摩门宗教的一员我成长在一个庞大的传统家庭，我有八个兄弟姐妹，母亲全职在家照料，我的父亲在社区是一位宗教领袖。我成长的世界让我深信我的价值和认知就是遵守我生活中所知道的规定。你结婚时是处女，你从不喝酒，你不能抽烟，你需要经常参加礼拜，你是个好孩子。我们的一些规定十分严格，但你遵守这些规定是因为你爱你身边的人，你爱你的宗教并且相信它。
en:I never accepted being excludedbecause I was a woman,except in my religion.Throughout all of that time,I was a part of a very patriarchalorthodox Mormon religion.I grew up in an enormouslytraditional family.I have eight siblings,a stay-at-home mother.My father&#39;s actuallya religious leader in the community.And I grew up in a world believingthat my worth and my standingwas in keeping these rulesthat I&#39;d known my whole life.You get married a virgin,you never drink alcohol,you don&#39;t smoke, you always do service,you&#39;re a good kid.Some of the rules we had were strict,but you followed the rulesbecause you loved the peopleand you loved the religionand you believed.
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:摩门教的一切决定了你穿什么，你和谁约会，你会嫁给谁它甚至决定了我们穿什么内衣。在我身处这样的宗教，每个我认识的人都会将自己收入的百分之十捐给教堂。其中也包括我自己不管是做报童还是保姆，我都捐百分之10。我身处在这样一个宗教，我听到父母告诉他们的孩子，如果他们中途离开了两年的传教任务，那他们宁愿他们死去，也不要耻辱而归，背着罪孽。我身处在这样一个宗教，每年都会有孩子自杀，因为他们害怕作为同性恋走出我们的社区但我也身处在这样一个宗教，我可以住在世界任何一个地方。我拥有能患难与共，相互扶持的友谊。这让我感到安全。这也是人生的确定性与明确性。我需要抚养我年幼的女儿这也是为什么我毫无疑问的接受只有男性可以领导我也曾坚定的认为在地球上，女性无法拥有神的精神权威也就是我们所谓的神职。我接受处理经费预算、惩戒委员会、與决策能力的两性差異，我给予我的宗教一切放行。因为我热爱它。
en:Everything about Mormonismdetermined what you wore,who you dated, who you married.It determined what underwear we wore.I was the kind of religiouswhere everyone I knowdonated 10 percent of everythingthey earned to the church,including myself.From paper routes and babysitting,I donated 10 percent.I was the kind of religiouswhere I heard parents tell childrenwhen they&#39;re leavingon a two-year proselytizing missionthat they would rather have them diethan return homewithout honor, having sinned.I was the type and the kind of religiouswhere kids kill themselvesevery single yearbecause they&#39;re terrifiedof coming out to our community as gay.But I was also the kind of religiouswhere it didn&#39;t matterwhere in the world I lived,I had friendship,instantaneous mutual aid.This was where I felt safe.This is certainty and clarity about life.I had help raising my little daughter.So that&#39;s why I accepted without questionthat only men can lead,and I accepted without questionthat women can&#39;t have the spiritualauthority of God on the Earth,which we call the priesthood.And I allowed discrepancies betweenmen and women in operating budgets,disciplinary councils,in decision-making capacities,and I gave my religion a free passbecause I loved it.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:直到我停止，我意识到我纵容自己被当作实际工作男性的幕后人员。我自己正视了这个矛盾，并且参与了社区的抗议活动。在过去的十多年里，我们非常、非常、非常地努力。
en:Until I stopped,and I realized that I hadbeen allowing myself to be treatedas the support staffto the real work of men.And I faced this contradiction in myself,and I joined with other activistsin my community.We&#39;ve been working very, very, very hardfor the last decade and more.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:我们首要做的就是提高意识。你不能改变你看不到的东西。我们开始通过播客，博客，写文章。我列了上百条在我们社区中男女不平等的方式。
en:The first thing we didwas raise consciousness.You can&#39;t change what you can&#39;t see.We started podcasting,blogging, writing articles.I created lists of hundreds of waysthat men and womenare unequal in our community.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:接下来我们做的是建立我们的倡导组织。我们尝试着做一些不可忽视的事情，比如穿着长裤去教堂，试图参加那些只有男性才能参加的会议这些看起来那么简单的事情，但对于我们作为组织者来说，付出了巨大的代价。我们失去了亲情，我们失去了工作。我们每天都收到恐吓信。我们在社交媒体和报刊上被攻击。我们收到了死亡威胁。我们失去了我们在社区中的地位，我们当中的一部分被逐出了教会。我们中的大多数被迫面对惩戒委员会，被我们所热爱的社区拒之门外。因为我们想要它们变得更好，因为我们相信它们可以变得更好。
en:The next thing we didwas build advocacy organizations.We tried to do thingsthat were unignorable,like wearing pants to churchand trying to attend all-male meetings.These seem like simple things,but to us, the organizers,they were enormously costly.We lost relationships. We lost jobs.We got hate mail on a daily basis.We were attacked in social mediaand national press.We received death threats.We lost standing in our community.Some of us got excommunicated.Most of us got putin front of a disciplinary council,and were rejectedfrom the communities that we lovedbecause we wanted to make them better,because we believed that they could be.
时间： 5:05
zh-cn:我开始期待我身边人的反应，我知道当你感到有人试图想改变你或者批判你是一种什么样的感觉。但经过那么多的事情，彻底震惊我的是我收到了宗教反对派的苛薄对待，激烈程度如同宗教支持者。而我那些不信仰宗教的朋友没有意识到的是这种宗教仇视，这些言语例如，“啊，所有信宗教的人不是疯就是蠢。”“别去理睬宗教。”“他们会歧视同性恋，和女性。”但他们不明白的是这种仇视并不是和宗教极端主义抗争，而是在传播宗教极端主义。那些争论并不管用，我知道原因，是因为我记得有人告诉我，我成为摩门教的一员是一件愚蠢的事情。这就促使了我所做的事是在保护我自己和我身边的人，我们相信的一切。因为我们并不愚蠢。
en:And I began to expect this reactionfrom my own people.I know what it feels like when you feellike someone&#39;s trying to change youor criticize you.But what utterly shocked mewas throughout all of this workI received equal measures of vitriolfrom the secular left,the same vehemence as the religious right.And what my secular friends didn&#39;t realizewas that this religious hostility,these phrases of, &quot;Oh, all religiouspeople are crazy or stupid.&quot;&quot;Don&#39;t pay attention to religion.&quot;&quot;They&#39;re going to behomophobic and sexist.&quot;What they didn&#39;t understandwas that that type of hostilitydid not fight religious extremism,it bred religious extremism.Those arguments don&#39;t work,and I know because I remembersomeone telling methat I was stupid for being Mormon.And what it caused me to dowas defend myself and my peopleand everything we believe in,because we&#39;re not stupid.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:批判和仇视并没有什么用，我不去听这些争论。当我听到这些争论时，我仍旧感到十分震怒，因为我有家庭，有朋友。他们是我身边的人，而我是第一个站出来保护他们的，但现实是残酷的。我们怎样尊重人们的宗教信仰即使他们所信仰的宗教可能会对其他人造成伤害？这是个棘手的问题。我仍旧没找到一个满意的答案。近十年来，我和我的父母一直在这个问题上争论不下。他们是聪慧善良的人。让我来帮你们理解他们的观点。在摩门人眼里，我们相信如果你遵守所有的规定及礼制，在你死后，你将和你的家人再一次团聚。而对于我父母来说，一些很简单的事情，就像我现在穿了一件无袖上衣，露出了我的手臂，这样就让我变得很廉价。那么在来世，我将和我的家人分离。但更重要的是，我有一个兄弟，他15岁的时候在一场车祸中丧生，然而像这样简单的事情意味着我们将不能再在一起。对于我的父母来说，他们无法理解为什么简单的女性的时尚与基本权利会阻止我和我的兄弟再一次的相聚。这是我们正在处理的心态，批判并不能改变什么。就算像我和我父母在触碰这颗地雷时，通过我们的生活方式来解释我们的观点，尊重对方的理念，但却试图去证明对方的基本信念是错的。生活是艰辛的。我们能采取的方式是绕过那些防御外壳真正看到那些信仰与不信仰的柔软内在，试图彼此尊重，即使他们持有的界限依然清晰。
en:So criticism and hostility doesn&#39;t work,and I didn&#39;t listen to these arguments.When I hear these arguments,I still continue to bristle,because I have family and friends.These are my people,and I&#39;m the first to defend them,but the struggle is real.How do we respectsomeone&#39;s religious beliefswhile still holding them accountablefor the harm or damagethat those beliefs may cause others?It&#39;s a tough question.I still don&#39;t have a perfect answer.My parents and I have been walkingon this tightrope for the last decade.They&#39;re intelligent people.They&#39;re lovely people.And let me try to help youunderstand their perspective.In Mormonism, we believethat after you die,if you keep all the rulesand you follow all the rituals,you can be together as a family again.And to my parents,me doing something as simpleas having a sleeveless top right now,showing my shoulders,that makes me unworthy.I won&#39;t be with my familyin the eternities.But even more, I had a brotherdie in a tragic accident at 15,and something as simple as thismeans we won&#39;t be together as a family.And to my parents, they cannot understandwhy something as simpleas fashion or women&#39;s rightswould prevent mefrom seeing my brother again.And that&#39;s the mindsetthat we&#39;re dealing with,and criticism does not change that.And so my parents and Ihave been walking this tightrope,explaining our sides,respecting one another,but actually invalidatingeach other&#39;s very basic beliefsby the way we live our lives,and it&#39;s been difficult.The way that we&#39;ve been able to do thatis to get past those defensive shellsand really see the soft insideof unbelief and beliefand try to respect each otherwhile still holding boundaries clear.
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:另一件让宗教左派、无神论者、东正教、宗教右派不能理解的是，为什么甚至关心宗教激进主义？我不能告诉你成百个人曾说，“如果你不喜欢宗教，就走开。”为什么你想尝试改变它？因为在安息日所被教导的，渗透到了我们世界的政治和卫生政策，以及遍布世界范围的暴力行为。它渗透到了教育、军队、财政决策。这些法律被合法、合情的编纂成文。事实上，我自己的宗教在这个国家已经具有巨大的影响力。举例来说，在加利福尼亚8号提案期间，我的教派筹集了2200万美元用来抵制同性婚姻。40年前，政治历史学家会说，如果不是摩门反对平等权利修正案，如今我们宪法就会有平等权利修正案。有多少人被它所影响？我们可以花费时间与其中的每一条法律法规抗争，或者我们可以问问自己，全世界默认性别歧视的原因是什么？为什么做那样的假设？
en:The other thing that the secular leftand the atheists and the orthodoxand the religious right,what they all don&#39;t understandwas why even careabout religious activism?I cannot tell you the hundredsof people who have said,&quot;If you don&#39;t like religion, just leave.&quot;Why would you try to change it?Because what is taught on the Sabbathleaks into our politics,our health policy,violence around the world.It leaks into education,military, fiscal decision-making.These laws get legallyand culturally codified.In fact, my own religion has hadan enormous effect on this nation.For example, during Prop 8,my church raised over 22 million dollarsto fight same-sex marriage in California.Forty years ago,political historians will say,that if it wasn&#39;t for the Mormonopposition to the Equal Rights Amendment,we&#39;d have an Equal Rights Amendmentin our Constitution today.How many lives did that affect?And we can spend timefighting every single oneof these little tiny laws and rules,or we can ask ourselves,why is gender inequalitythe default around the world?Why is that the assumption?
时间： 9:18
zh-cn:因为宗教不仅创造了道德的根基，它也造就了标准的根源。宗教能够释放或征服，它们能给予或掠夺它们能安抚或毁坏，而那些在伦理道德上起到决定作用的人却常常不用担负责任。宗教不能被剔除或忽略。我们需要严肃对待它们。但就像我们刚才所说，要改变一个宗教并不容易。
en:Because religion doesn&#39;t justcreate the roots of morality,it creates the seeds of normality.Religions can liberate or subjugate,they can empower or exploit,they can comfort or destroy,and the people that tip the scalesover to the ethical and the moralare often not those in charge.Religions can&#39;t be dismissed or ignored.We need to take them seriously.But it&#39;s not easy to influence a religion,like we just talked about.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:但让我来告诉你我身边的人做了什么。我们的团体很小，大概百来号人但我们有巨大的影响力。现在，女性的照片第一次被挂在走道上并且紧邻着男性。现在女性被允许在教会会议上祈祷，然而在之前的会议上是从未有过的。上周，发生了历史性的措举，三位女性被邀请作为其中的三位领导成员监管整个教派。我们看到了在摩门社区中的显著改变，允许谈论性别不平等。我们敞开心扉，不去理睬被轻视，为了更多保守的女性能更进一步并作出实质性的改变，“女性”和“神职”现在可以在同一句子中出现。我从未拥有过这样。我的女儿和我侄女生来就在这样一个我从未经历过的宗教，更加平等——我们为之努力过。
en:But I&#39;ll tell youwhat my people have done.My groups are small,there&#39;s hundreds of us,but we&#39;ve had huge impact.Right now, women&#39;s picturesare hanging in the halls next to menfor the first time.Women are now allowedto pray in our church-wide meetings,and they never were beforein the general conferences.As of last week, in a historic move,three women were inviteddown to three leadership boardsthat oversee the entire church.We&#39;ve seen perceptual shiftsin the Mormon communitythat allow for talk of gender inequality.We&#39;ve opened up space,regardless of being despised,for more conservative womento step in and make real changes,and the words &quot;women&quot; and &quot;the priesthood&quot;can now be uttered in the same sentence.I never had that.My daughter and my nieces are inheritinga religion that I never had,that&#39;s more equal — we&#39;ve had an effect.
时间：10:46
zh-cn:站在那些队伍中，试图参与那些男性会议，这些并不容易。我们有成百个人，当我们走到门口，我们一个一个被告知，“对不起，这个会议只有男性可以参与。“我们不得不往后退，看着男性走近会议室，连队伍中12岁的小男孩，也在护送下从我们身边走过。但站在那条队伍中的女性没有一个会忘记那一天，从我们身边走过的男孩没有一个会忘记那一天。
en:It wasn&#39;t easy standing in those linestrying to get into those male meetings.There were hundreds of us,and one by one, when we got to the door,we were told, &quot;I&#39;m sorry,this meeting is just for men,&quot;and we had to step backand watch men get into the meetingas young as 12 years old,escorted and walked past usas we all stood in line.But not one woman in that linewill forget that day,and not one little boythat walked past us will forget that day.
时间：11:20
zh-cn:如果我们是一家跨国公司、或者政府，发生那样的事情，那将会激起愤怒，但我们只是一个宗教。我们都只是宗教的一部分。我们不能一直以那样的方式看待宗教，因为它不仅影响着我，也影响着我的女儿，还有你们的女儿，还有她们拥有什么样的机遇，她们能穿什么，她们能爱谁、嫁给谁。她们是否有生育医疗保健的权利。我们需要在世俗的环境下使全世界的宗教重新建立世俗道德与责任，但我们需要以一种尊重的方式去传播合作互融而不是极端主义。我们可以无法被忽略的勇气，为了性别平权站出来。
en:If we were a multinational corporationor a government, and that had happened,there would be outrage,but we&#39;re just a religion.We&#39;re all just part of religions.We can&#39;t keep lookingat religion that way,because it doesn&#39;t only affect me,it affects my daughterand all of your daughtersand what opportunities they have,what they can wear,who they can love and marry,if they have accessto reproductive healthcare.We need to reclaim moralityin a secular contextthat creates ethical scrutinyand accountabilityfor religions all around the world,but we need to do it in a respectful waythat breeds cooperation and not extremism.And we can do it throughunignorable acts of bravery,standing up for gender equality.
时间：12:09
zh-cn:现在时候让拥有宗教信仰并且接近世界人口半数的人们为平权和平等在世界上的各种宗教信仰中发声这包括世界各地的教会、犹太教会、清真寺、神庙。我在为我身边的人而奋斗，那你能为你身边的人做什么呢？
en:It&#39;s time that halfof the world&#39;s populationhad voice and equalitywithin our world&#39;s religions,churches, synagogues, mosquesand shrines around the world.I&#39;m working on my people.What are you doing for yours?
时间：12:24
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
