时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我要讲述的是在21世纪中关于领导力的一个简单的道理。在21世纪，实际上我们需要看重的—也是我今天鼓励你们考虑的—回到我们上学的日子，在那时我们学习了如何算数。但实际上我认为，是时候考虑下我们要算些什么。因为那些我们被我们算的东西才是真正有价值的。
en:I&#39;m going to talk about the simple truth in leadershipin the 21st century.In the 21st century, we need to actually look at —and what I&#39;m actually going to encourage you to consider today —is to go back to our school dayswhen we learned how to count.But I think it&#39;s time for us to think about what we count.Because what we actually counttruly counts.
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:先让我给你们讲一个小故事吧。这是温.果奇。她在1986年从越南来到美国。她改了个新名字，薇薇安因为这样她想更好地融入美国社会。她的第一份工作是在三藩市市中心的一个汽车旅馆当女佣。在薇薇安在那儿工作了大约三个月后，我恰巧买下了那个汽车旅馆。也就是说实际上，我和她一起工作了23年之久。
en:Let me start by telling you a little story.This is Van Quach.She came to this country in 1986 from Vietnam.She changed her name to Vivianbecause she wanted to fit in here in America.Her first job was at an inner-city motelin San Francisco as a maid.I happened to buy that motelabout three months after Vivian started working there.So Vivian and I have been working together for 23 years.
时间： 0:57
zh-cn:我26岁，正是年轻、充满理想主义情怀的时候1987年，我创办了我的第一间公司，取名为joie de vivre （法语：生活的乐趣），一个花哨但并不实用的名字，因为我的本意是想去创造生活的乐趣。我买下的第一个酒店，是个汽车旅馆，是一个计时付费的，人人都愿意住宿的旅馆。坐落在三藩市的市中心。在我和薇薇安交往的过程中我发现她总能从她的工作中找到生活的乐趣。这使我很好奇并且困惑：一个人怎么能在清洁厕所这种工作中找到乐趣呢？因此我与薇薇安呆在一起，后来我发现她并不是在清洁厕所时找到乐趣。她所追求的目标和价值并不是成为这世界上最成功的厕所刷洗工。对薇薇安来说意义在于与她的同事和客户之间的情感交流。给予她鼓励和内涵的实际上是，她所照顾的那些身在异乡的人们。因为她深知远离家乡是怎样的一种感觉。
en:With the youthful idealism of a 26-year-old,in 1987,I started my company and I called it Joie de Vivre,a very impractical name,because I actually was looking to create joy of life.And this first hotel that I bought, motel,was a pay-by-the-hour, no-tell motelin the inner-city of San Francisco.As I spent time with Vivian,I saw that she had sort of a joie de vivrein how she did her work.It made me question and curious:How could someone actually find joyin cleaning toilets for a living?So I spent time with Vivian, and I saw thatshe didn&#39;t find joy in cleaning toilets.Her job, her goal and her callingwas not to become the world&#39;s greatest toilet scrubber.What counts for Vivian was the emotional connectionshe created with her fellow employees and our guests.And what gave her inspiration and meaningwas the fact that she was taking care of peoplewho were far away from home.Because Vivian knew what it was like to be far away from home.
时间： 1:56
zh-cn:这非常感人的一课，在超过二十年里，在这次经济危机中，更是让我受益良多。在从互联网泡沫和911事件觉醒过来之后，三藩市海湾地区的酒店业经历了在美国酒店业历史上最惨重的的收入暴跌。我们曾经是海湾地区最大的酒店运营商因此我们的损失尤其惨重。更糟糕的是，我们从那时起停止使用法国薯片.而，准确说来，它不是法国的.。我们开始吃“自由薯片”我们开始抵制一切来自法国的东西而，我公司的名字，joie de vivre，所以我开始收到许多来自阿拉巴马和橘郡的信件，通知我他们即将要抵制我的公司，原因在于他们以为我们是一家法国公司。然后我给他们回信说，“等等，我们不是法国公司。我们是美国公司，我们的公司总部在三藩市。“然后我接到一个精炼的回答：那更糟糕！
en:That very human lesson,more than 20 years ago,served me well during the lasteconomic downturn we had.In the wake of the dotcom crash and 9/11,San Francisco Bay Area hotelswent through the largest percentage revenue dropin the history of American hotels.We were the largest operator of hotels in the Bay Area,so we were particularly vulnerable.But also back then,remember we stopped eating French fries in this country.Well, not exactly, of course not.We started eating &quot;freedom fries,&quot;and we started boycotting anything that was French.Well, my name of my company, Joie de Vivre —so I started getting these lettersfrom places like Alabama and Orange Countysaying to me that they were going to boycott my companybecause they thought we were a French company.And I&#39;d write them back, and I&#39;d say, &quot;What a minute. We&#39;re not French.We&#39;re an American company. We&#39;re based in San Francisco.&quot;And I&#39;d get a terse response: &quot;Oh, that&#39;s worse.&quot;
时间： 2:51
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:在一个特别的日子，我感觉异常沮丧甚至找不到生活的乐趣时，我走进了一间坐落在我们办公室楼边的本地书店。我先去看了和经商有关的书籍，寻找一个商业解决方案。可是我感觉到头昏脑胀，我快速浏览了有关自助的书籍。在那儿，我重新认识了亚伯拉罕.马斯洛的人类需求等级的理论。我在大学里上过一门心理学的课程，正如你们很多人一样，我从亚伯拉罕.马斯洛那儿学到了“需求层次理论”。我在那里坐了四个小时，整个下午都在阅读读马斯洛的经典，我确实意识到一些适用于多数领导者的东西。而商业中最简单的事实之一是一些通常被我们忽略的东西。我们都是人。我们每个人，无论我们在商场上扮演着怎样的角色，在工作岗位上，我们都有着一些不同层次的需求。
en:So one particular daywhen I was feeling a little depressed and not a lot of joie de vivre,I ended up in the local bookstore around the corner from our offices.And I initially ended up in the business section of the bookstorelooking for a business solution.But given my befuddled state of mind, I ended upin the self-help section very quickly.That&#39;s where I got reacquainted withAbraham Maslow&#39;s &quot;hierarchy of needs.&quot;I took one psychology class in college,and I learned about this guy, Abraham Maslow,as many of us are familiar with his hierarchy of needs.But as I sat there for four hours,the full afternoon, reading Maslow,I recognized somethingthat is true of most leaders.One of the simplest facts in businessis something that we often neglect,and that is that we&#39;re all human.Each of us, no matter what our role is in business,has some hierarchy of needsin the workplace.
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:所以当我更多阅读马斯洛的著作时，我开始意识到马斯洛在晚年的时候尝试着将这种个人的需求的不同层级应用在集体层面，应用在组织中，尤其在商业企业中。但不幸的是，他在1970年早逝了所以他不能见证这一梦想的实现。所以我意识到在互联网爆炸后，传承马斯洛的理论，成了我生命中的一项重要的任务。这我几年前开始把他的五级需求金字塔转变成了我的三级转变金字塔——生存，成功和转变这不只是商业的根本，它也是生活的根本。我们开始问自己，如何才能真正的解决更高级的需求，我们公司核心员工的转变的需求。需求层级中的这三个层次实际上与马斯洛的五级需求紧密联系。
en:So as I started reading more Maslow,what I started to realize is thatMaslow, later in his life,wanted to take this hierarchy for the individualand apply it to the collective,to organizations and specifically to business.But unfortunately, he died prematurely in 1970,and so he wasn&#39;t really able to live that dream completely.So I realized in that dotcom crashthat my role in life was to channel Abe Maslow.And that&#39;s what I did a few years agowhen I took that five-level hierarchy of needs pyramidand turned it into what I call the transformation pyramid,which is survival, success and transformation.It&#39;s not just fundamental in business, it&#39;s fundamental in life.And we started asking ourselves the questionsabout how we were actually addressingthe higher needs, these transformational needsfor our key employees in the company.These three levels of the hierarchy needsrelate to the five levelsof Maslow&#39;s hierarchy of needs.
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:但当我们开始问自己如何解决我们公司员工和客户的更高层次需求时，我意识到我们没有任何衡量标准我们不知道我们怎样做才是对的。因此我们开始自问：什么样的不明显的衡量标准能被我们用来评估我们的雇员的归属感，或我们的客户与我们公司的情感维系程度？例如，我们开始询问问我们的员工，是否理解我们公司的目标，他们是否对此表示认同，他们能否确实的影响到它，他们能否感到他们的工作能够实实在在地实现着为这些目标。我们开始问我们的客户，问他们是否感觉到与我们之间的情感联系，七种不同情感联系方式之一。出乎意料的是，当我们问这些问题，并开始关注我们的金字塔顶端的更高层次需求时，我们发现我们我们拥有了更多的忠诚。我们客户的忠诚度暴涨。我们的员工离职率降至酒店行业平均职工流动率的三分之一。在五年的互联网危机中，我们的企业规模翻了三倍。
en:But as we started asking ourselves about how we were addressingthe higher needs of our employees and our customers,I realized we had no metrics.We had nothing that actually could tell us whether we were actually getting it right.So we started asking ourselves:What kind of less obvious metricscould we use to actually evaluateour employees&#39; sense of meaning,or our customers&#39; sense of emotional connection with us?For example, we actually started asking our employees,do they understand the mission of our company,and do they feel like they believe in it,can they actually influence it,and do they feel that their work actually has an impact on it?We started asking our customers,did they feel an emotional connection with us,in one of seven different kinds of ways.Miraculously, as we asked these questionsand started giving attention higher up the pyramid,what we found is we created more loyalty.Our customer loyalty skyrocketed.Our employee turnover droppedto one-third of the industry average,and during that five year dotcom bust,we tripled in size.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:现在，我走出来，花时间与其他领导者交流问他们是如何度过这个困难时期的时候，他们一次又一次的告诉我他们只是管理那些他们可以衡量的东西，而那些位于金字塔底部可以衡量的有形的东西。他们甚至不看金字塔中更高层的那些无形的东西。所以我开始问自己：如何我们才能让领导者开始重视无形的的东西？如果领导者们只是被教育去管理那些可以衡量的，并且所有我们所能衡量的是生命中有形的东西，我们就失去了位于金字塔顶部的整个部分。
en:As I went out and started spending time with other leaders out thereand asking them how they were getting through that time,what they told me over and over againwas that they just manage what they can measure.What we can measure is that tangible stuffat the bottom of the pyramid.They didn&#39;t even see the intangible stuffhigher up the pyramid.So I started asking myself the question:How can we get leaders to start valuing the intangible?If we&#39;re taught as leaders to just manage what we can measure,and all we can measure is the tangible in life,we&#39;re missing a whole lot of things at the top of the pyramid.
时间： 6:04
zh-cn:所以我又去学习一些事情。我发现在一份报告，其中显示世界上百分之九十四的商业领袖相信无形资产对于他们企业至关重要，例如知识产权、企业文化、品牌忠诚度等。然而这些领袖中只有5%的人有办法衡量这些在企业中的无形资产.所以我们作为领袖，我们明白无形资产的重要性，但是如何实际的去衡量它们，我们没有什么头绪。在此我想引用爱因斯坦的一句话：不是所有有价值的都能被计算，并且，不是所有能计算的都有价值。“我并不想与爱因斯坦争论，但是如果那些在我们生命和商业中最有价值的实际上并不能被计数或估价，我们是否要让我们的一生深陷于衡量那些平淡和不重要的事情呢？
en:So I went out and studied a bunch of things,and I found a survey that showedthat 94 percentof business leaders worldwidebelieve that the intangibles are important in their business,things like intellectual property,their corporate culture, their brand loyalty,and yet, only five percent of those same leadersactually had a means of measuring the intangibles in their business.So as leaders, we understandthat intangibles are important,but we don&#39;t have a clue how to measure them.So here&#39;s another Einstein quote:&quot;Not everything that can be counted counts,and not everything that counts can be counted.&quot;I hate to argue with Einstein,but if that which is most valuablein our life and our businessactually can&#39;t be counted or valued,aren&#39;t we going to spend our livesjust mired in measuring the mundane?
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:正是这类关于什么才有价值的难题使我撇下CEO的身份在一星期内飞向喜马拉雅山脉的顶端我飞向了一个几个世纪以来一直充满了无限迷团的地方，一个叫做香格里拉的地方这实际上是一个从金字塔的的生存基础成为一个世界的角色转换模型。我去了不丹那个年轻的国王也是个有好奇心的人，但这要回到1972年，他在他父亲去世两天后登上国王的宝座。在他17岁的时，他开始问这样一些问题：一些你也许认为幼稚的问题。
en:It was that sort of heady question about what countsthat led me to take my CEO hat off for a weekand fly off to the Himalayan peaks.I flew off to a place that&#39;s been shrouded in mystery for centuries,a place some folks call Shangri-La.It&#39;s actually moved from the survival base of the pyramidto becoming a transformationalrole model for the world.I went to Bhutan.The teenage king of Bhutan was also a curious man,but this was back in 1972,when he ascended to the thronetwo days after his father passed away.At age 17, he started asking the kinds of questionsthat you&#39;d expect of someone with a beginner&#39;s mind.
时间： 7:33
zh-cn:在去印度的旅途中，在他称帝的早期，他被一个印度记者问到关于不丹的GDP，不丹GDP的大小的问题。这位国王的回答方式在四十年之后的今天仍然让我们受益匪浅。他这样说：“我们为什么要如此痴迷于国内生产总值呢？为什么我们不多关注一下一个国家国民的快乐呢？”现在，从本质上来说，这位国王是在让我们去考虑对成功的另外一种定义这是就是GNH, 国民幸福总值这个世界上的多少领导者对此并不关心那些有考虑过这些的人认为这些只是“佛教经济学”但是那位国王是认真的这其实是一个值得关注的时刻，因为这是近两百年来第一次有一个世界的领导者提出这种不可见的快乐——再次提出，200年前汤马斯.杰佛逊在他的独立宣言中200年之后这位国王提出了这种无形的快乐是我们应该衡量的，也是作为政府领导人真正应该重视的。
en:On a trip through India,early in his reign as king,he was asked by an Indian journalistabout the Bhutanese GDP,the size of the Bhutanese GDP.The king responded in a fashionthat actually has transformed us four decades later.He said the following, he said: &quot;Why are we so obsessedand focused with gross domestic product?Why don&#39;t we care more aboutgross national happiness?&quot;Now, in essence, the king was asking us to consideran alternative definition of success,what has come to be known asGNH, or gross national happiness.Most world leaders didn&#39;t take notice,and those that did thought this was just &quot;Buddhist economics.&quot;But the king was serious.This was a notable moment,because this was the first time a world leaderin almost 200 yearshad suggestedthat intangible of happiness —that leader 200 years ago,Thomas Jefferson with the Declaration of Independence —200 years later,this king was suggesting that intangible of happinessis something that we should measure,and it&#39;s something we should actually valueas government officials.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:在接下来他当国王的36年中，这位国王甚至开始衡量和管理不丹的快乐。也包括最近，把这个国家从一个完全的君主专政政体转变为了一个君主立宪政体没有流血，没有屠杀。不丹，对那些不了解这个国家的人来说是一个新型的民主政体，仅仅始于两年前。
en:For the next three dozen years as king,this king actually started measuringand managing around happiness in Bhutan —including, just recently, taking his countryfrom being an absolute monarchy to a constitutional monarchywith no bloodshed, no coup.Bhutan, for those of you who don&#39;t know it,is the newest democracy in the world, just two years ago.
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:所以当我与这些提倡国民幸福总值运动的领袖们交流，我才逐渐明白他们在做些什么。当我与这位总理相处时，在一次晚饭时，我问了他一个毫不相干的问题。我问他，”你是怎样创造和度量一些空泛易蒸发的东西，换句话来说，快乐？“他是充满智慧的人，他回答说：“佛祖的目的并不是去创造快乐，我们创造那些让快乐能够存在的条件。也就是说，我们创造了快乐的栖息地。”哇，这真是有趣。而且他说他们在这种艺术的背后有一种科学他们实际上创造了四个重要的支柱，9个核心指标和72个不同的度量标准这些能够帮助测量GNH。实际上，其中一个核心指标是如何让不丹人感觉到他们是如何度过他们的每一天的呢？这是一个不错的问题。如何感觉你的每一天是如何度过的呢？在现代社会社会中，时间是一种最稀缺的资源。可是，诚然这微小的不可见的数据并不影响我们对GDP的计算。
en:So as I spent time with leaders in the GNH movement,I got to really understand what they&#39;re doing.And I got to spend some time with the prime minister.Over dinner, I asked him an impertinent question.I asked him,&quot;How can you create and measuresomething which evaporates —in other words, happiness?&quot;And he&#39;s a very wise man, and he said,&quot;Listen, Bhutan&#39;s goal is not to create happiness.We create the conditions for happiness to occur.In other words, we create a habitat of happiness.&quot;Wow, that&#39;s interesting.He said that they have a science behind that art,and they&#39;ve actually created four essential pillars,nine key indicatorsand 72 different metricsthat help them to measure their GNH.One of those key indicators is:How do the Bhutanese feel abouthow they spend their time each day?It&#39;s a good question. How do you feel abouthow you spend your time each day?Time is one of the scarcest resourcesin the modern world.And yet, of course,that little intangible piece of datadoesn&#39;t factor into our GDP calculations.
时间：10:08
zh-cn:所以当我把时间花在喜马拉雅山脉的时候，我开始想象我所谓的一种情感方程式。这是很久以前我从拉比. 海曼. 斯佳特尔读到的。有多少人知道他？有人知道么？在1954年，他写过一本书，叫做《生活的真正乐趣》他提出快乐并不在于得到你所想要的。而在于你想往你所拥有的。也就是说，我认为不丹人相信快乐等同于想往你所拥有的东西想象一下感恩分割成拥有你所想要的东西满足感。不丹人的志趣不至于一些有抱负但枯燥无趣的工作上持续关注与那些他们没有的事物。他们的宗教，他们的与世隔离，他们深深的对自己文化的尊重以及现在GNH运动的原则，这所有的一切都培养了一种对他们所拥有的感恩的情结。我们之中有多少人，作为TED的拥护者，把更多的时间花在这个方程式的底端，分母上呢？我们总是一种底端受重文化所逼迫在很多方面都是如此
en:As I spent my week up in the Himalayas,I started to imaginewhat I call an emotional equation.And it focuses on something I read long agofrom a guy named Rabbi Hyman Schachtel.How many know him? Anybody?1954, he wrote a book called &quot;The Real Enjoyment of Living,&quot;and he suggested that happinessis not about having what you want;instead, it&#39;s about wanting what you have.Or in other words, I think the Bhutanese believehappiness equals wanting what you have —imagine gratitude —divided by having what you want —gratification.The Bhutanese aren&#39;t on some aspirational treadmill,constantly focused on what they don&#39;t have.Their religion, their isolation,their deep respect for their cultureand now the principles of their GNH movementall have fostered a sense of gratitudeabout what they do have.How many of us here, as TEDsters in the audience,spend more of our timein the bottom half of this equation, in the denominator?We are a bottom-heavy culturein more ways than one.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:15
zh-cn:事实上是，在西方国家，通常我们注重对快乐的追求正如快乐是一种我们必须非常从外部才能得到的一种我们我们理应得到的东西，和很多其他的东西一样而事实上，如果你查查字典看一下的话，许多字典把这种追求定义为“带着敌意的追逐”。我们是带着对抗的情绪追求快乐的么？问的好。再回到不丹。
en:The reality is, in Western countries,quite often we do focus on the pursuit of happinessas if happiness is something that we have to go out —an object that we&#39;re supposed to get, or maybe many objects.Actually, in fact, if you look in the dictionary,many dictionaries define pursuitas to &quot;chase with hostility.&quot;Do we pursue happiness with hostility?Good question. But back to Bhutan.
时间：11:42
zh-cn:实际上，在不丹南边和北边的边境生存着这个世界百分之38的人口。这个小国在一个成熟的工业社会中刚刚起步，就放出万丈光芒，影响了整个二十一世纪的中国和印度的中产阶级？不丹实际上创造了一种终极的输出，一种新的全球通用的福祉。这个世界上有40个国家正在研究他们自己的GNH。你也许听过，去年的秋天法国的尼古拉·萨科齐，宣布了获得了诺贝尔奖的经济学家一项18个月研究的研究结果，这项研究关注于法国的快乐和幸福。萨科奇提出世界的领导人应该停止目光短浅地只关注GDP关注一种新的指数，法国人称之为“幸福指数”我喜欢这个提法。一个品牌合作的机会。
en:Bhutan&#39;s bordered on its north and southby 38 percent of the world&#39;s population.Could this little country,like a startup in a mature industry,be the spark plug that influencesa 21st centuryof middle-class in China and India?Bhutan&#39;s created the ultimate export,a new global currency of well-being,and there are 40 countries around the world todaythat are studying their own GNH.You may have heard, this last fallNicolas Sarkozy in Franceannouncing the results of an 18-month studyby two Nobel economists,focusing on happiness and wellness in France.Sarkozy suggested thatworld leaders should stopmyopically focusing on GDPand consider a new index,what some French are calling a &quot;joie de vivre index.&quot;I like it.Co-branding opportunities.
时间：12:35
zh-cn:就在三天前，在我来的TED的三天前，我们和大卫.喀麦隆有一个同时联播节目，他可能是下任英国首相，引用了一个我最爱的一句演讲，罗伯特 肯尼迪在1968年的诗歌演讲当时他提出我们只把目光放在那些错误的事情上GDP是一个错位的度量标准。这预示着动机发生了转变。
en:Just three days ago, three days ago here at TED,we had a simulcast of David Cameron,potentially the next prime minister of the UK,quoting one of my favorite speeches of all-time,Robert Kennedy&#39;s poetic speech from 1968when he suggested that we&#39;remyopically focused on the wrong thingand that GDP is a misplaced metric.So it suggests that the momentum is shifting.
时间：12:58
zh-cn:我也曾经用过罗伯特 肯尼迪的这句话，我也曾经把它转变成一种新的衡量收支平衡的办法。这实际上是事物的一种结合罗伯特 肯尼迪在他的GDP可以计算空气污染红木的污染但它并没儿童的健康考虑在内，没把公务员的正直程度考虑在内。当你看在这两栏的时候难道你不觉得这正是我们应该开始从新创造一种新的方式去衡量么一种方式去真正地想象什么才是生活中最重要的东西？
en:I&#39;ve taken that Robert Kennedy quote,and I&#39;ve turned it into a new balance sheet for just a moment here.This is a collection of thingsthat Robert Kennedy said in that quote.GDP counts everything from air pollutionto the destruction of our redwoods.But it doesn&#39;t count the health of our childrenor the integrity of our public officials.As you look at these two columns here,doesn&#39;t it make you feel like it&#39;s time for usto start figuring out a new way to count,a new way to imaginewhat&#39;s important to us in life?
时间：13:28
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：13:32
zh-cn:诚然，罗伯特肯尼迪在他的演讲的末尾提出了完全一致的号召。他说，GDP计算了一切短暂的东西而没有包涵那些使生命变得有价值的东西哇。那么我们怎么办呢？在我们开始这么做之前，让我先告诉大家一件事两年前的今天，至少是在这个国家，为什么在美国我们做了2010年的人口普查我们花了10亿美元在这个人口普查上面我们只是问了10个非常简单的问题但是所有的这些问题都是可以触摸的他们都是关于人口统计学特征的他们是关于你在哪里居住，你和多少人一起住还有你是否拥有你所居住的房子。也就是这些我们并不被问及有意义的度量我们并不被问及重要的问题我们没有问及任何不可见的事物。
en:Certainly Robert Kennedy suggested at the end of the speech exactly that.He said GDP &quot;measures everything in short,except that which makes life worthwhile.&quot;Wow.So how do we do that?Let me say one thing we can just start doingten years from now, at least in this country.Why in the heck in Americaare we doing a census in 2010?We&#39;re spending 10 billion dollars on the census.We&#39;re asking 10 simple questions — it is simplicity.But all of those questions are tangible.They&#39;re about demographics.They&#39;re about where you live, how many people you live with,and whether you own your home or not.That&#39;s about it.We&#39;re not asking meaningful metrics.We&#39;re not asking important questions.We&#39;re not asking anything that&#39;s intangible.
时间：14:15
zh-cn:马斯洛很久以前说过的一些我们以前听说过的，但是你以前并不意识到是他说的他说，“手里拿着个锤子看什么都像是钉子。“我们被我们的工具所愚弄。这个表述或许不恰当（笑声）我们被我们的工具所愚弄GDP就像是我们的锤子。我们的钉子是从19世纪到20世纪的工业时代的成功模型。可是，当今世界百分之六十四的GDP是来自于不可见的，称之为服务业的行业服务业，我所在的行业。只有百分之三十六来自于可见的行业，制造业和农业。所以是时候我们换一个大一点的工具盒了，对吧。或者是时候我们事实上需要一个工具盒并不只能量那些很容易被量的，在生活中具体的、可以的触摸的东西，事实上能够量度那些我们最重视的那些不可度量的东西
en:Abe Maslow said long agosomething you&#39;ve heard before, but you didn&#39;t realize it was him.He said, &quot;If the only tool you have is a hammer,everything starts to look like a nail.&quot;We&#39;ve been fooled by our tool.Excuse that expression.(Laughter)We&#39;ve been fooled by our tool.GDP has been our hammer.And our nail has been a 19th- and 20th-centuryindustrial-era model of success.And yet, 64 percentof the world&#39;s GDP todayis in that intangible industry we call service,the service industry, the industry I&#39;m in.And only 36 percent is in the tangible industriesof manufacturing and agriculture.So maybe it&#39;s time that we get a bigger toolbox, right?Maybe it&#39;s time we get a toolbox thatdoesn&#39;t just count what&#39;s easily counted, the tangible in life,but actually counts what we most value,the things that are intangible.
时间：15:09
zh-cn:我想我是个有好奇心的CEO。我过去也只是个对充满好奇心的经济学专业本科生。我学到了经济学衡量一切可以具体化的单位生产和消费好像那些可以被具体化的单位是完全等同的一样他们是不一样的事实上，作为领导者，我们需要了解的是我们其实可以影响每个单位产量的质量通过从实际中创造条件给我们的员工去找到他们的价值从薇薇安的例子中，她的单位产量并不是可以计算的她工作的每个小时而是她所做到的那些不可触摸的区别在那一小时的工作中
en:I guess I&#39;m sort of a curious CEO.I was also a curious economics major as an undergrad.I learned that economists measure everythingin tangible units of production and consumptionas if each of those tangible unitsis exactly the same.They aren&#39;t the same.In fact, as leaders, what we need to learnis that we can influencethe quality of that unit of productionby creating the conditionsfor our employees to live their calling.In Vivian&#39;s case,her unit of productionisn&#39;t the tangible hours she works,it&#39;s the intangible difference she makesduring that one hour of work.
时间：15:47
zh-cn:这也是为什么大卫.亚玲达尔变成来薇薇安的旅馆的常客的原因他在那里呆了数百次在近20年中他对这个旅馆的忠诚来自于这层关系薇薇安和她的同事所创造的与他的这层关系他们创造了一个快乐的栖息地给大卫他告诉我他总是可以依赖于薇薇安和那里的所有员工他们让他感受到了家的感觉为什么企业领袖、投资者通常看不到这层关系创造的不可触摸的员工们的快乐以及商业中的财政利润我们并不一定要从中选择或是有受激励的员工或巨大的经济利润。我们可以同时拥有这两者事实上，受到鼓舞的员工，很多时候对获得巨大的利润很有帮助
en:This is Dave Arringdale who&#39;s actuallybeen a longtime guest at Vivian&#39;s motel.He stayed there a hundred timesin the last 20 years,and he&#39;s loyal to the property because of the relationshipthat Vivian and her fellow employees have created with him.They&#39;ve created a habitat of happiness for Dave.He tells me that he can always counton Vivian and the staff thereto make him feel at home.Why is it thatbusiness leaders and investorsquite often don&#39;t see the connectionbetween creating the intangibleof employee happinesswith creating the tangibleof financial profits in their business?We don&#39;t have to choose betweeninspired employees and sizable profits,we can have both.In fact, inspired employees quite oftenhelp make sizable profits, right?
时间：16:40
zh-cn:所有，当今我们所需要的，我的观点是商界领袖和政界领袖，那些知道去衡量些什么的人我们计算数字，我们依靠人，我们真正看重的是当我们可以用数字去真正使我们的顾客收益我从一个汽车旅馆的女仆和一个国家的国王那里学到了这个道理。什么是你从今天开始就计算的呢？有一样东西，你今天就可以开始计算会使你一生受用，不管这是为你的工作，还是为了你的生意
en:So what the world needs now,in my opinion,is business leaders and political leaderswho know what to count.We count numbers.We count on people.What really counts is when we actually use our numbersto truly take into account our people.I learned that from a maid in a moteland a king of a country.What can youstart counting today?What one thing can you start counting todaythat actually would be meaningful in your life,whether it&#39;s your work life or your business life?
时间：17:17
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：17:19
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
