时间： 0:17
zh-cn:大家好！（笑）
en:Hi.(Laughter)
时间： 0:21
zh-cn:我这样做有两个原因第一 我想在视觉上给你们一个良好的第一印象但其实我这样做的主要原因是我被强迫戴上这个Lady Gaga风的古怪麦克风
en:I did that for two reasons.First of all, I wanted to give youa good visual first impression.But the main reason I did it is thatthat&#39;s what happens to me when I&#39;m forced to weara Lady Gaga skanky mic.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:(笑)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:我习惯固定式麦克风那才是公开场合演讲标配
en:I&#39;m used to a stationary mic.It&#39;s the sensible shoe of public address.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:但是 我头上被卡上这个东西后 怪事发生了我也变得怪里怪气了（笑）对不住大家我都跑题了
en:But you clamp this thing on my head, and something happens.I just become skanky.(Laughter) So I&#39;m sorry about that.And I&#39;m already off-message.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:女士们 先生们我花了二十五年的宝贵光阴致力于设计书本“对，书。就是把一沓上面有墨水的纸订一起。你不能用开关关掉它。记得告诉你孩子。”其实我干这行也是无心插柳柳成荫就跟当初发现青霉素似的（笑）
en:Ladies and gentlemen,I have devoted the past 25 years of my lifeto designing books.(&quot;Yes, BOOKS. You know, the bound volumes with ink on paper.You cannot turn them off with a switch.Tell your kids.&quot;)It all sort of started as a benign mistake,like penicillin. (Laughter)
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:我本来想的是成为纽约市一家大型设计公司的美术编辑当时的情形是1986年秋天 在经历了大批的面试之后我唯一接到的聘书就是阿尔弗雷德•克诺夫出版社的艺术总监助理那是一家图书出版商我承认我当时的确挺蠢的但还没有蠢到让自己失业
en:What I really wantedwas to be a graphic designerat one of the big design firms in New York City.But upon arrival there,in the fall of 1986, and doing a lot of interviews,I found that the only thing I was offeredwas to be Assistant to the Art Director at Alfred A. Knopf,a book publisher.Now I was stupid,but not so stupid that I turned it down.
时间： 2:01
zh-cn:我压根不知道我到底要干啥不过我真的太走运了很快 我就知道我的工作是什么了我的工作就是问这个问题：“这些故事看上去像什么？”因为这就是克诺夫的风格它是个故事工厂 世上最好的故事工厂之一我们把故事带给公众
en:I had absolutely no ideawhat I was about to become part of,and I was incredibly lucky.Soon, it had occurred to me what my job was.My job was to ask this question:&quot;What do the stories look like?&quot;Because that is what Knopf is.It is the story factory, one of the very best in the world.We bring stories to the public.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:故事五花八门有一些是真有其事但他们有一个共同点：他们需要看上去像个什么玩意儿它们需要一副面孔为什么呢? 就是给你即将步入的世界一个第一印象书籍设计师用形式来表达内容同时还要非常小心地使两者平衡
en:The stories can be anything,and some of them are actually true.But they all have one thing in common:They all need to look like something.They all need a face.Why? To give you a first impressionof what you are about to get into.A book designer gives form to content,but alsomanages a very careful balance between the two.
时间： 2:57
zh-cn:犹记得我在宾州州立大学平面设计培训的第一天我的老师，Lanny Sommese，走进教室在黑板上画了一张苹果的图片在下面写上“苹果”他说，“第一堂课，听好了啊。”他把图片盖上，又说你们要么说这个，”接着他又把字盖上“要么画这个不能两者同时出现。”因为那样的话就是把观众当弱智啊（笑)观众可不是弱智
en:Now, the first dayof my graphic design training at Penn State University,the teacher, Lanny Sommese, came into the roomand he drew a picture of an apple on the blackboard,and wrote the word &quot;Apple&quot; underneath,and he said, &quot;OK. Lesson one. Listen up.&quot;And he covered up the picture and he said,&quot;You either say this,&quot; and then he covered up the word,&quot;or you show this.But you don&#39;t do this.&quot;Because this is treating your audience like a moron.(Laughter)And they deserve better.
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:你瞧 很快我就能把这个理论试用到我为克诺夫设计的两本书上第一本是凯瑟琳·赫本的回忆录第二本是玛琳·黛德丽的传记赫本的书是用非常口语化的语言写就的就像她坐在桌子对面跟你聊天一样黛德丽的书是一本以她女儿的视角所观察出的一部传记赫本的故事是用语言黛德丽的故事是用图画，所以我们做了这个你们来看单纯的内容和单纯的形式，肩并肩好好相处哟,两位女士
en:And lo and behold, soon enough,I was able to put this theory to the teston two books that I was working on for Knopf.The first was Katharine Hepburn&#39;s memoirs,and the second was a biography of Marlene Dietrich.Now the Hepburn bookwas written in a very conversational style,it was like she was sitting across a table telling it all to you.The Dietrich book was an observationby her daughter; it was a biography.So the Hepburn story is wordsand the Dietrich story is pictures, and so we did this.So there you are.Pure content and pure form, side by side.No fighting, ladies.
时间： 4:22
zh-cn:“什么是侏罗纪公园？”是一个什么样的故事呢？有人从史前时代的琥珀里提取了恐龙的DNA把恐龙复活了。小伙儿你行！（笑）
en:(&quot;What&#39;s a Jurassic Park?&quot;)Now, what is the story here?Someoneis re-engineering dinosaursby extracting their DNAfrom prehistoric amber.Genius!(Laughter)
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:有一点幸运的是我在纽约市居住和工作那儿的恐龙可是相当多啊（笑）然后我去了自然历史博物馆在那好好看了看恐龙骨架，然后我又去了礼品店在那买了一本书我特别喜欢书中的这一页更具体点就是右下角那张图
en:Now, luckily for me,I live and work in New York City,where there are plenty of dinosaurs.(Laughter)So,I went to the Museum of Natural History,and I checked out the bones, and I went to the gift shop,and I bought a book.And I was particularly taken with this page of the book,and more specifically the lower right-hand corner.
时间： 5:15
zh-cn:我选了这个图我把它放到复印机里（笑）我又取了一张描图纸我用一片透明胶带把它贴到复印机上——如果我讲得太快了请告诉我——（笑）我又拿出一支绘图笔——告诉那边的小伙子那是啥——（笑）然后我就开始重建恐龙了
en:Now I took this diagram,and I put it in a Photostat machine,(Laughter)and I took a piece of tracing paper,and I taped it over the Photostatwith a piece of Scotch tape — stop me if I&#39;m going too fast —(Laughter) —and then I took a Rapidograph pen —explain it to the youngsters —(Laughter)and I just started to reconstitute the dinosaur.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:我其实不知道自己在做什么也不知道会整出个啥玩意儿但做了一会儿之后，我觉得我得停了——再做下去看来有点太过火最终我们看到的图形中的动物是这个样子这还没完我又稍作了一点后期加工简单弄了一下顺便影射了一下咱们公园的标识有多简陋（笑）
en:I had no idea what I was doing,I had no idea where I was going,but at some point, I stopped —when to keep going would seem like I was going too far.And what I ended up with was a graphic representationof us seeing this animal coming into being.We&#39;re in the middle of the process.And then I just threw some typography on it.Very basic stuff,slightly suggestive of public park signage.(Laughter)
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:出版社里人都挺喜欢它的于是它就被送到作者那里去了即使在当时迈克尔说话也挺潮的迈克尔·克莱顿在传真里回复到：“擦！这书封他妈的太帅了”（笑）（掌声）看见这张传真从机器里出来的时候我才真正安心了（笑）我真想迈克尔
en:Everybody in house loved it,and so off it goes to the author.And even back then,Michael was on the cutting edge.(&quot;Michael Crichton responds by fax:&quot;)(&quot;Wow! Fucking Fantastic Jacket&quot;)(Laughter) (Applause)That was a relief to see that pour out of the machine.(Laughter)I miss Michael.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:果然 环球影业有人打电话到我们法律部问是否能买到这张图的版权以备将来之用好吧，他们最后真的用了（笑）（掌声）
en:And sure enough, somebody from MCA Universalcalls our legal department to see if they canmaybe look into buying the rights to the image,just in case they might want to use it.Well, they used it.(Laughter) (Applause)
时间： 7:23
zh-cn:我当时很激动我们都知道那是一部很棒的电影而且看到这成了一种文化成了一种现象 还有各种衍生品还真挺有意思的但就在不久前我在网上无意看见这个图那可不是我噢但 不管是谁我禁不住会想 他们要是有天醒过来叫“天哪，昨晚这可还啥也没的呀。啊啊啊啊啊！我算是完蛋了。”（笑）
en:And I was thrilled.We all know it was an amazing movie,and it was so interesting to see itgo out into the culture and become this phenomenonand to see all the different permutations of it.But not too long ago,I came upon this on the Web.No, that is not me.But whoever it is,I can&#39;t help but thinking they woke up one day like,&quot;Oh my God, that wasn&#39;t there last night. Ooooohh!I was so wasted.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 8:01
zh-cn:想想 这个图画经由我的脑袋到我的手最后到了他腿上（笑）这还真是种责任不过这是种我不能轻易担当的责任图书设计师有三重责任对读者 对出版商 最重要的是对作者我希望你看到该作者的书会说，“哇！我得看看这本书。”
en:But if you think about it, from my headto my hands to his leg.(Laughter)That&#39;s a responsibility.And it&#39;s a responsibility that I don&#39;t take lightly.The book designer&#39;s responsibility is threefold:to the reader, to the publisher and, most of all, to the author.I want you to look at the author&#39;s bookand say, &quot;Wow! I need to read that.&quot;
时间： 8:31
zh-cn:大卫·塞达斯是我最喜欢的作家之一这本合集的文章标题是关于他的裸体主义殖民地之旅的他去的原因是他害怕自己身体的样子他想探究一下原因所在但这本书对我的意义是 我终于有机会设计一本能脱裤子的书了但即使你真这样做了你也不见得就能看见你想看的你得到的东西要深刻得多大卫特别喜爱这个设计因为在他做的很多书籍签名会上他会拿支神奇的马克笔然后画个这玩意儿（笑）喂！（笑）
en:David Sedaris is one of my favorite writers,and the title essayin this collection is about his trip to a nudist colony.And the reason he went is becausehe had a fear of his body image,and he wanted to explore what was underlying that.For me, it was simply an excuse to design a bookthat you could literally take the pants off of.But when you do,you don&#39;t get what you expect.You get something that goes much deeper than that.And David especially loved this designbecause at book signings, which he does a lot of,he could take a magic marker and do this.(Laughter)Hello!(Laughter)
时间： 9:22
zh-cn:奥古斯丁·巴勒斯写过一本传记叫做《干燥》 记述了他在康复的事经历他20几岁时 就成为一位相当成功的广告公司主管了不过像《广告狂人》里一样，他是个疯狂的酒鬼他本人并不以为然不过他的同事都劝他说“你要去康复中心，不然，你会被炒鱿鱼，你会死掉的。”
en:Augusten Burroughs wrote a memoircalled [&quot;Dry&quot;], and it&#39;s about his time in rehab.In his 20s, he was a hotshot ad executive,and as Mad Men has told us, a raging alcoholic.He did not think so, however,but his coworkers did an intervention and they said,&quot;You are going to rehab, or you will be fired and you will die.&quot;
时间： 9:46
zh-cn:对我来说 有一种排版法一直都靠谱我称之为101型的对立面这是什么意思呢？通常在上印刷术简介课的第一天你的作业是选一个字然后把这个字写得像它所表达的意思非常简单我这个方法其实就是反着来我想让这本书看上去像在撒谎绝望无助地撒谎，就跟酒鬼一样的
en:Now to me, this was always going to be a typographic solution,what I would call the opposite of Type 101.What does that mean?Usually on the first day of Introduction to Typography,you get the assignment of, select a wordand make it look like what it says it is. So that&#39;s Type 101, right?Very simple stuff.This is going to be the opposite of that.I want this book to look like it&#39;s lying to you,desperately and hopelessly, the way an alcoholic would.
时间：10:14
zh-cn:我用了你所能想象到的最没技术含量的方法我设置了字型 然后用爱普生的水溶性墨水打印出来 贴到墙上再把一桶水浇上去 瞬间变样！接着我们拿到出版社打印机在墨水上加了点光泽看上去真像在往下流
en:The answer was the most low-tech thing you can imagine.I set up the type, I printed it out on an Epson printerwith water-soluble ink, taped it to the walland threw a bucket of water at it. Presto!Then when we went to press,the printer put a spot gloss on the inkand it really looked like it was running.
时间：10:33
zh-cn:出版没多久，奥古斯丁埋伏在一个机场他藏在一个书店里偷看谁在买他的书有一位老太太走过来她瞅了一眼 就把书拿到收款处对店员说，“这本书印坏了。”（笑）店员站在柜台后说，“我知道，女士。它们来的时候就成这样了。”（笑）印刷厂的伙计们干的还真不赖嘛
en:Not long after it came out, Augusten was waylaid in an airportand he was hiding out in the bookstorespying on who was buying his books.And this woman came up to it,and she squinted, and she took it to the register,and she said to the man behind the counter, &quot;This one&#39;s ruined.&quot;(Laughter)And the guy behind the counter said, &quot;I know, lady. They all came in that way.&quot;(Laughter)Now, that&#39;s a good printing job.
时间：11:05
zh-cn:一本书的封面是书的精华也可以说是这个故事的俳句总结手塚治虫在他写的菩萨史诗中有一个很特殊的故事这书总共有8卷。最棒的是当它上了你的书架 你就得到了一排菩萨，而且还是不同年龄段的所有这些方案是从书的内容发掘出来的而一旦图书设计师读到了内容他就变成了一位诠释者和翻译者
en:A book coveris a distillation.It is a haiku,if you will, of the story.This particular storyby Osama Tezukais his epic life of the Buddha,and it&#39;s eight volumes in all. But the best thing iswhen it&#39;s on your shelf, you get a shelf lifeof the Buddha, moving from one age to the next.All of these solutionsderive their origins from the text of the book,but once the book designer has read the text,then he has to be an interpreterand a translator.
时间：11:56
zh-cn:这个故事才是个真正的谜就是这么回事“十六世纪奥斯曼法庭画家的阴谋和谋杀。”
en:This story was a real puzzle.This is what it&#39;s about.(&quot;Intrigue and murder among 16th century Ottoman court painters.&quot;)
时间：12:05
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:08
zh-cn:那好 我就收集了一些画我看着它们 解构它们又把它们组合起来所以 这就成了设计 对吧这是封面和书脊 是平的但当你用它包上书 放到书架上 故事就开始了
en:All right, so I got a collection of the paintings togetherand I looked at them and I deconstructed themand I put them back together.And so, here&#39;s the design, right?And so here&#39;s the front and the spine, and it&#39;s flat.But the real story starts when you wrap it around a book and put it on the shelf.
时间：12:24
zh-cn:啊！我们看到了秘密情人 让我们再拉出来看看吧噢！他们被苏丹发现了他不会开心的嗬！现在苏丹身处危险现在我们需要打开来看看下面会发生什么事你能用Kindle这么玩么？（笑）
en:Ahh! We come upon them,the clandestine lovers. Let&#39;s draw them out.Huhh! They&#39;ve been discovered by the sultan.He will not be pleased.Huhh! And now the sultan is in danger.And now, we have to open it upto find out what&#39;s going to happen next.Try experiencing that on a Kindle.(Laughter)
时间：12:58
zh-cn:别提了 说了我就来气说真的电子书籍提供了很多轻松，方便，便携但是有个东西一定不在了：传统一种感官体验，那种物质特有的安慰——和一点点的人性
en:Don&#39;t get me started.Seriously.Much is to be gained by eBooks:ease, convenience, portability.But something is definitely lost: tradition,a sensual experience, the comfort of thingy-ness —a little bit of humanity.
时间：13:22
zh-cn:你知道约翰·厄普代克从阿尔弗雷德•克诺夫出版社拿到新书后做的第一件事是什么吗？他会闻闻它接着他会用手摸遍书页刺鼻的油墨 纸的裁边从始至终 一本不拉 他从未厌倦过当然我也觉得IPAD很好但不骗你 闻它你可是啥都闻不到的（笑）这会儿苹果员工正在给工程师发短信呢“赶紧开发气味分泌插件。”（笑）
en:Do you know what John Updike used to dothe first thing when he would get a copyof one of his new books from Alfred A. Knopf?He&#39;d smell it.Then he&#39;d run his hand over the rag paper,and the pungent ink and the deckled edges of the pages.All those years, all those books, he never got tired of it.Now, I am all for the iPad,but trust me — smelling it will get you nowhere.(Laughter)Now the Apple guys are texting,&quot;Develop odor emission plug-in.&quot;(Laughter)
时间：14:06
zh-cn:最后我要讲的是一个很有意思的故事1984年在日本有一个叫青豆的女人发现自己正沿着立交桥盘旋下行 当她到达底部时她突然不禁觉得她走进了一个新的世界这和她离开的那个略有不同像 但不一样其实我们在说的是世界的平行层的存在就像一本书和它的封面一样
en:And the last story I&#39;m going to talk about is quite a story.A womannamed Aomame in 1984 Japan finds herselfnegotiating down a spiral staircaseoff an elevated highway. When she gets to the bottom,she can&#39;t help but feel that, all of a sudden,she&#39;s entered a new realitythat&#39;s just slightly different from the one that she left,but very similar, but different.And so, we&#39;re talking about parallel planes of existence,sort of like a book jacket and the book that it covers.
时间：14:37
zh-cn:那我们如何来表示呢？我们再回到赫本和黛德丽，但这次把她们合并我们在讲不同的层面，那就用不同的纸层这是一片半透明的膜它是形式和内容的一部分当它在纸的上面时即反过来放 就成这样了所以 即使你一点也不了解这本书你也会不由自主地觉得这是一个人跨越了两个层面的存在这个书实物本身就引起了探索互动 思考和接触
en:So how do we show this?We go back to Hepburn and Dietrich, but now we merge them.So we&#39;re talking about different planes, different pieces of paper.So this is on a semi-transparent piece of velum.It&#39;s one part of the form and content.When it&#39;s on top of the paper board,which is the opposite, it forms this.So even if you don&#39;t know anything about this book,you are forced to consider a single personstraddling two planes of existence.And the object itself invited explorationinteraction, considerationand touch.
时间：15:23
zh-cn:这本书一登场就居《纽约时报》畅销书排行榜第二这对于出版社和作者都是前所未闻的我们在讲是一本900页的书它不仅好看而且很怪异它的高潮片段居然是一群小人从一名熟睡了的女孩嘴里出来然后把一条德国牧羊犬弄炸了！（笑）不完全是杰基·柯林斯的风格嘛十四周位居畅销书排行榜印了8次 仍然势头不减
en:This debuted at number twoon the New York Times Best Seller list.This is unheard of,both for us the publisher, and the author.We&#39;re talking a 900-page bookthat is as weird as it is compelling,and featuring a climactic scenein which a horde of tiny peopleemerge from the mouth of a sleeping girland cause a German Shepherd to explode.(Laughter)Not exactly Jackie Collins.Fourteen weeks on the Best Seller list,eight printings, and still going strong.
时间：16:00
zh-cn:即使我们像爱艺术一样爱出版我们也很清楚 这毕竟也是生意如果我们做得对 运气又不差的话那伟大的艺术也能成伟大的生意
en:So even though we love publishing as an art,we very much know it&#39;s a business too,and that if we do our jobs right and get a little lucky,that great art can be great business.
时间：16:12
zh-cn:这就是我的故事 未完待续这故事到底看起来怎么样?我知道 这种场景不仅可能 而且正在并且还会继续发生不过对我这个书籍设计师读者旧书的收集者在书上作批注的人以及闻墨香的人来说在我眼中这个故事是这样的
en:So that&#39;s my story. To be continued.What does it look like?Yes. It can, it does and it will,but for this book designer,page-turner,dog-eared place-holder,notes in the margins-taker,ink-sniffer,the story looks like this.
时间：16:42
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：16:45
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
