时间： 0:12
zh-cn:这是你们的大会。在这个转折时期，你们有权了解一下这个将要掌门的家伙。所以，我现在抓把椅子坐下。
en:This is your conference,and I think you have a right to know a little bit right now, in this transition period,about this guy who&#39;s going to be looking after it for you for a bit.So, I&#39;m just going to grab a chair here.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:我想， 是在两年以前的TED大会上吧—我得出一个结论—我想我可能得了奇怪的错觉，我认为，我可能已经不自觉地认为，自己是一个生意场的英雄我原来有个叫“未来”的公司，是我花了15年时间打造的。那是一个杂志出版公司。那时候它才上市股市表明它价值20亿美元，那个数字我也看不懂。最近我又发行了 &lt;&gt; 杂志，它比电话薄还要厚，它正在忙于给商业泡沫充加热气(笑声)我拥有这个即将上市互联网公司40%的份额那无疑又是好几个亿的市值。而这一切如今都已经成了泡影。15年前我还是一名科技记者的时候，每当我跟人们说：“ 我打算创办一份计算机杂志”，人们只会朝我笑笑。而15年后，这样的杂志就有100 多种。员工多达2000多名 ，发展势头十分迅猛，那是在2000年的二月。我当初也以为我的商业生涯会跟摩尔定律描述的那样，不断攀升，永无止境。我是说它不就得那样发展，不是吗？可是事与愿违。
en:Two years ago at TED, I think —I&#39;ve come to this conclusion —I think I may have been suffering from a strange delusion.I think that I may have believed unconsciously,then, that I was kind of a business hero.I had this company that I&#39;d spent 15 years building. It&#39;s called Future;it was a magazine publishing company.It had recently gone publicand the market said that it was apparently worth two billion dollars,a number I didn&#39;t really understand.A magazine I&#39;d recently launched called Business 2.0was fatter than a telephone directory,busy pumping hot air into the bubble.(Laughter)And I was the 40 percent owner of a dotcomthat was about to go public and no doubt be worth billions more.And all this had come from nothing.Fifteen years earlier, I was a science journalist who people just laughed atwhen I said, &quot;I really would like to start my own computer magazine.&quot;And 15 years later, there are 100 of themand 2,000 people on staff and it was just such heady times.The date was February 2000.I thought the little graph of my business lifethat kind of looked a bit like Moore&#39;s Law —ever upward and to the right — it was going to go on forever.I mean, it had to. Right? I was in for quite a surprise.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:那个上市的网络公司， 很可笑地取名为“雪球”，是纳斯达克崩盘前最一个月最后一个上市的消费用户网络公司，然后我就在这个商业地狱里过了18个月。我看着— 目睹我创建的一切倒塌下来。看上去一切都要完蛋了。15年的工作都付之东流。那是令人断肠的痛楚。开始我们用了8年的血泪才成功的把员工人数增加到350人，我对此是感到非常自豪的。然而， 在2001年二月， 我们一天就裁了350名员工，而到这一腥风血雨结束前， 我们公司总共失去了1000名员工，我感到非常难受。我看着我的净资产以每天100万美元的速度在跌落，18个月，每天如此。而比这一切更糟糕的是我对自我的价值认同也随之蒸发。我走来走去都觉得脑袋上顶着“失败者”几个字。(笑声)而那次经历最让我感到厌恨是，我竟然会把我快乐与商业上的成败挂起钩来。现在回头看看， 最让我感到愧疚的是我怎么会把我个人的快乐与商场的成败联系在一起？
en:The dotcom, ironically called Snowball,was the very last consumer web company to go publicthe next month before NASDAQ exploded, and I entered 18 months of business hell.I watched everything that I&#39;d built crumbling,and it looked like all this stuff was going to dieand 15 years work would have come for nothing.And it was gut wrenching.It took eight years of blood, sweat and tears to reach 350 employees,something which I was very proud of in the business.February 2001 — in one day we laid off 350 people,and before the bloodshed was finished, 1,000 people had lost their jobsfrom my companies. I felt sick.I watched my own net worth fallingby about a million dollars a day, every day, for 18 months.And worse than that, far worse than that,my sense of self-worth was kind of evaporating.I was going around with this big sign on my forehead: &quot;LOSER.&quot;(Laughter)And I think what disgusts me more than anything, looking back,is how the hell did I let my personal happinessget so tied up with this business thing?
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:后来我们总算也把“未来”和“雪球” 挽救了，但是那个时候我已经站在了决定另谋发展的转折点长话短说，这里， 就是我来到的地方。我之所以告诉大家我的故事，是因为我跟大家聊起时，发现在座的很多人都有过类似的经历，过去几年都经历了感情上的大起大伏。这个阶段是一个以个很大的转折时期，我相信这个会议会成为我们生活中重要的一部分无论下一个舞台会是什么，它都将把我们引领到那里。明年大会的主题是“再生”。
en:Well, in the end, we were able to save Future and Snowball,but I was, at that point, ready to move on.And to cut a long story short, here&#39;s where I came to.And the reason I&#39;m telling this story is that I believe, from many conversations,that a lot of people in this room have been through a similar kind of rollercoaster —emotional rollercoaster — in the last couple years.This has been a big, big transition time,and I believe that this conference can play a big part for all of usin taking us forward to the next stage to whatever&#39;s next.The theme next year is re-birth.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:这也是两年前TED的主题。当时， 我和理查德就就TED的未来形成了共识。也在那一刻， 我认为正是那个契机，促使我重拾起了一个因埋头于商业活动而遗忘的习惯，我重新开始阅读。我发现，就在我沉溺于商业游戏的时候，很多领域里都出现了惊人的革新，从天文学、到心理学、到进化心理学、到人类学，到其他的很多领域， 你可以看到所有的事物都发生了变化。如果你从我们是一个物种的角度去想一下，我们身处的星球发生了那么大的变化，这些变化真是令人兴奋的，而最令人兴奋的是我想理查德乌玛 在20年就发现了这个秘密，那就是这一切都是互相关联的。它们连在一起， 环环相扣。
en:It was at the same TED two years agowhen Richard and I reached an agreement on the future of TED.And at about the same time, and I think partly because of that,I started doing something that I&#39;d forgotten about in my business focus:I started to read again.And I discovered that while I&#39;d been busy playing business games,there&#39;d been this incredible revolution in so many areas of interest:cosmology to psychology to evolutionary psychology to anthropologyto ... all this stuff had changed.And the way in which you could think about us as a speciesand us as a planet had just changed so much, and it was incredibly exciting.And what was really most exciting —and I think Richard Wurman discovered this at least 20 years before I did —was that all this stuff is connected.It&#39;s connected; it all hooks into each other.
时间： 5:33
zh-cn:对此我们谈论了很多，我想举个例子，就一个例子，法国总统戴高乐夫人曾经被问到：“你最希望得到的是什么？”她的回答是：&quot;a penis.&quot; (发音接近英语的Happiness，意为阴茎。)其实你想想，这是非常正确的我们都最希望得到的就是 &quot; a penis&quot;.或者， 你知道，用英语来说就是： “happiness&quot;笑声 (快乐的英语发音跟 a penis 很接近)噢， 对了， 日语翻译室的仁兄祝你好运啊。笑声。( * 这一英文典故很难用外语翻译。)掌声
en:We talk about this a lot,and I thought about trying to give an example of this. So, just one example:Madame de Gaulle, the wife of the French president,was famously asked once, &quot;What do you most desire?&quot;And she answered, &quot;A penis.&quot;And when you think about it, it&#39;s very true:what we all most desire is a penis —or &quot;happiness&quot; as we say in English.(Laughter)And something ... good luck with that one in the Japanese translation room.(Laughter)(Applause)
时间： 6:26
zh-cn:然而就是基本的快乐问题，那个20年前人们只会在教堂或清真寺里讨论的话题，今天你可以用TED的角度提出一打十分有趣的问题。你可以从生物学的角度来寻找幸福的根源从神经系统科学， 血液复合胺等各个角度来研究。你也可以从心理学的角度来分析，是先天、后天，还是环境的作用更大？这方面的研究结果是绝对令人吃惊的。你还可以把它看作是一个计算机科学的问题，比如，你们是不是应该为机器人输入快乐的元素使它可以象人类一样感受快乐，你还可以从地缘政治学的角度来分析，为什么地球上会有近10亿极其贫穷的人们永远得不到快乐，而另外其他的人，无论他们有多少钱，两美金一天也罢，其他数字也罢，快乐的感受都差不多？或者，你还可以用进化心理学来分析，是不是我们的基因本身存在某种机制促使我们形成某种既定的行为方式？也许蚂蚁把人脑当成了宿主，操控着我们某些行为，使我们的基因可以繁殖。我们是不是妄想的受害者？等等，等等
en:But something as basic as happiness,which 20 years ago would have been just something for discussionin the church or mosque or synagogue,today it turns out that there&#39;s dozens of TED-like questionsthat you can ask about it, which are really interesting.You can ask about what causes it biochemically:neuroscience, serotonin, all that stuff.You can ask what are the psychological causes of it:nature? Nurture? Current circumstance?Turns out that the research done on that is absolutely mind-blowing.You can view it as a computing problem, an artificial intelligence problem:do you need to incorporatesome sort of analog of happiness into a computer brain to make it work properly?You can view it in sort of geopolitical termsand say, why is it that a billion people on this planetare so desperately needy that they have no possibility of happiness,and whereas almost all the rest of them,regardless of how much money they have — whether it&#39;s two dollars a day or whatever —are almost equally happy on average?Or you can view it as an evolutionary psychology kind of thing:did our genes invent this as a kind of trickto get us to behave in certain ways? The ant&#39;s brain, parasitized,to make us behave in certain ways so that our genes would propagate?Are we the victims of a mass delusion?And so on, and so on.
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:因此，要真正理解象快乐这样对我们大家来说很重要的问题，我们需要从多个不同的角度进行探讨据我所知，除了TED大会以外，没有其他场合更适合这样的探索。这里你可以从各种角度，提出各种问题正如理查德所说：要了解任何一样东西，你都需要知道一点点与之相关的许多事物。因此， 在为期三天的TED会议里，你开始会试图弄明白为什么我要听这些彼此无关的演讲？而等到会议介绍的第四天，你就会发现你的头脑里充满了能量、动力和激情。那是因为当我们把这一切放在一起，我们将经历的是一次大脑的整体体验，就好象精神的全身按摩，(笑声)思想的每个器官都受到刺激。
en:To understand even something as important to us as happiness,you kind of have to branch off in all these different directions,and there&#39;s nowhere that I&#39;ve discovered — other than TED —where you can ask that many questions in that many different directions.And so, it&#39;s the profound thing that Richard talks about:to understand anything, you just need to understand the little bits;a little bit about everything that surrounds it.And so, gradually over these three days,you start off kind of trying to figure out,&quot;Why am I listening to all this irrelevant stuff?&quot;And at the end of the four days,your brain is humming and you feel energized, alive and excited,and it&#39;s because all these different bits have been put together.It&#39;s the total brain experience, we&#39;re going to ...it&#39;s the mental equivalent of the full body massage.(Laughter)Every mental organ addressed. It really is.
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:你会说：” 别说大道理了，克里斯, 告诉我们你到底要做什么吧。“好吧， 下面我谈谈我的TED愿景。
en:Enough of the theory, Chris. Tell us what you&#39;re actually going to do, all right?So, I will. Here&#39;s the vision for TED.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:第一：什么也不做。TED没什么毛病，所以不需要我来治理。杰夫毕则斯 曾经很客气地跟我说，“TED大会是一个非常了不起的大会，你要把它搞砸了都不是很容易的事。”(笑声)所以我给自己的职务取名为：”TED监护人“。在此，我向大家保证，代表TED特色核心价值是不会被改变的，真实、好奇、多元，不搞推销，不吹牛，不跟风，随波逐流, 不搞特权平台。只有对兴趣的追求，不管它存在何处，所有我重申过的原则，都不会改变。
en:Number one: do nothing. This thing ain&#39;t broke, so I ain&#39;t gonna fix it.Jeff Bezos kindly remarked to me,&quot;Chris, TED is a really great conference.You&#39;re going to have to fuck up really badly to make it bad.&quot;(Laughter)So, I gave myself the job title of TED Custodian for a reason,and I will promise you right here and nowthat the core values that make TED special are not going to be interfered with.Truth, curiosity, diversity, no selling, no corporate bullshit,no bandwagoning, no platforms.Just the pursuit of interest, wherever it lies,across all the disciplines that are represented here.That&#39;s not going to be changed at all.
时间：10:00
zh-cn:第二，明年我将会为大家带来一批最优秀的演讲人TED运作的时间跨度也正合适，我从每个月都有严格截稿期的杂志业出来，现在则有一年的时间去做这件事，事实上, 等一会儿我就想告诉你们，已经有25位杰出的演讲者登记参加明年的TED演讲。此外，TED也社区给予了我们极大的帮助那是一个非常优秀的社区，如果把所有的人脉都汇合起来，即便不能覆盖全球，也可以挖掘到国内最有意思的人才这是真的。
en:Number two: I am going to put togetheran incredible line up of speakers for next year.The time scale on which TED operates is just fantasticafter coming out of a magazine business with monthly deadlines.There&#39;s a year to do this, and already —I hope to show you a bit later —there&#39;s 25 or so terrific speakers signed up for next year.And I&#39;m getting fantastic help from the community;this is just such a great community. And combined, our contactsreach pretty much everyone who&#39;s interesting in the country, if not the planet.It&#39;s true.
时间：10:35
zh-cn:第三，如果我可以做到的话， 我想找到一条途径，把TED的体验延伸到整个年度中，我们正在做的一件事就是建立这个读书俱乐书本在过去的几年里成了我的救星，我想把那个礼物传递给他人。所以，要是你登记参加2003年的TED，每隔6周你会收到一个邮包里面会是一两本书，以及说明为何那些书是和TED大会相关的。它们很可能是TED演讲人的著作这样，我们就能把我们的对话一直延伸下去，等到来年我们在此相会的时候，大家都拥有一些共同的思想和感情经历， 我认为这个主意很不错。
en:Number three: I do want to, if I can, find a wayof extending the TED experience throughout the year a little bit.And one key way that we&#39;re going to do this is to introduce this book club.Books kind of saved me in the last couple years,and that&#39;s a gift that I would like to pass on.So, when you sign up for TED2003, every six weeks you&#39;ll get a care packagewith a book or two and a reason why they&#39;re linked to TED.They may well be by a TED speaker,and so we can get the conversation going during the yearand come back next year having had the same intellectual, emotional journey.I think it will be great.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:最后，我要提到Sapling基金会，它是TED大会的新主人。Sapling拥有TED的所有权， 就是意味着TED大会带给我们的一切都是为Sapling基金会的宗旨服务的。而更重要的是，在这个会上展示的和了解的想法可以为这个基金会使用，因为大家可以非常好的协作就在过去的几天里，我们已经听到了人们在此谈论他们关心的，热衷的事物，以及怎样利用它们改变世界。把这样一群人集合到一块的愿望，是因为这个群体有某些共同的理想，大会能筹措到一些经费和好的解决问题的办法。我相信这一切加在一起， 经过一段时间后肯定可以帮助改变世界。对此我感到非常的兴奋。坦白而言，我一生人还从来没有这么兴奋过，我是来TED打持久战的，如果你们愿意加入这个旅程，我会感到无尚的光荣和兴奋
en:And then, fourthly: I want to mention the Sapling Foundation,which is the new owner of TED.What Sapling&#39;s ownership means is that all of the proceeds of TEDwill go towards the causes that Sapling stands for.And more important, I think, the ideas that are exhibited and realized hereare ideas that the foundation can use, because there&#39;s fantastic synergy.Already, just in the last few days,we&#39;ve had so many people talking about stuff that they care about,that they&#39;re passionate about, that can make a difference in the world,and the idea of getting this group of people together —some of the causes that we believe in,the money that this conference can raise and the ideas —I really believe that that combination will, over time, make a difference.I&#39;m incredibly excited about that.In fact, I don&#39;t think, overall, that I&#39;ve been as excited by anything ever in my life.I&#39;m in this for the long run,and I would be greatly honored and excitedif you&#39;ll come on this journey with me.
