时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我乐观的原因还有这个：那便是气候变化。也许你对此不太相信，然而这便是事实。
en:I have one more reason for optimism:climate change.Maybe you don&#39;t believe it,but here is the fact.
时间： 0:19
zh-cn:在2015年的12月12日的巴黎，受命于联合国的邀请，195个国家代表齐聚一堂，并达成全部共识 ——如果你和政府打过交道，你应该知道这非常困难，全体一致的达成共识，有心去改变全球经济发展的进程，来保护做弱势的一方，以及提升我们所有人的生活。这真的是一项了不起的成就。
en:On December 12, 2015,in Paris, under the United Nations,195 governments got togetherand unanimously —if you&#39;ve worked with governments,you know how difficult that is —unanimously decidedto intentionally change the courseof the global economyin order to protect the most vulnerableand improve the life of all of us.Now, that is a remarkable achievement.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:然而，更不得了的地方是，如果你回想一下几年前，2009，在哥本哈根的会议。谁还记得哥本哈根会议吗？经过了长年累月有关气候协议的努力，同样的与会国家被召集到哥本哈根，结局却是惨不忍睹。
en:But it is even more remarkableif you consider where we had beenjust a few years ago.2009, Copenhagen.Who remembers Copenhagen?Well, after years of workingtoward a climate agreement,the same governmentsconvened in Copenhagenand failed miserably.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:为什么会这样呢？理由有很多，但最主要是因为存在于南北半球国家之间的，那根深蒂固的分歧。然而如今，在失败过后的6个月，我被委任接受这项，全球气候变化谈判的职责。你能想象，这是个开始新工作的最佳时刻。全球对于气候变化的态度一团糟。没有人会相信，全球能在此问题上达成共识，实际上，我也是这么想的。除了在座优秀的TED观众，你能守口如瓶的话，我准备告诉你们一个秘密，这个秘密一直被历史完好封存着。在我首次的新闻发布会上，有一名记者提问到：“ Figueres女士，你是否认为要达成全球共识是不可能完成的？”大脑还没反应过来时，我听见自己说道，” 这辈子是不可能了。“当然，你可以想象到我们新闻团队的表情，大家都被这个来自哥斯达黎加的疯女人所震惊，而且这个女人还是他们的新上司。其实，我当时也被自己吓到了。我并非被那个早已习惯了的自己所吓到，我真正害怕的是，我话语所带来的后果，为这个我们子孙都会生活的这个世界，所带来的后果。老实讲，对我来说，那是个可怕的一刻，然后我想，不，我要挺住，我要挺住。不可能不是一个既定事实，而是一种态度。这仅仅是一种态度。就在那刻，我立马改变了我的态度，我也要帮助这个世界，来改变他们对气候变化的态度。
en:Why did it fail miserably?For many different reasons,but primarily becauseof the deeply entrenched dividebetween the globalNorth and the global South.So now, six months after this failure,I was called into assume the responsibilityof the global climate change negotiations.You can imagine, the perfect momentto start this new job.The global mood on climate changewas in the trash can.No one believedthat a global agreementcould ever be possible.In fact, neither did I.If you promise not to tell anyoneoutside of this wonderful TED audience,I&#39;m going to divulge a secretthat has been gratefullyburied by history.On my first press conference,a journalist asked, &quot;Um, Ms. Figueres,do you think that a global agreementis ever going to be possible?&quot;And without engaging brain,I heard me utter,&quot;Not in my lifetime.&quot;Well, you can imaginethe faces of my press teamwho were horrifiedat this crazy Costa Rican womanwho was their new boss.And I was horrified, too.Now, I wasn&#39;t horrified at me,because I&#39;m kind of used to myself.I was actually horrifiedat the consequencesof what I had just said,at the consequences for the worldin which all our childrenare going to have to live.It was frankly a horrible moment for me,and I thought, well, no, hang on,hang on.Impossible is not a fact,it&#39;s an attitude.It&#39;s only an attitude.And I decided right then and therethat I was going to change my attitudeand I was going to help the worldchange its attitude on climate change.
时间： 3:20
zh-cn:我不知道——仅仅是这样？谢谢。我不知道——如果让你拯救这个星球，你会怎么做？然后把它写到你的工作描述中。虽然你并没有被赋予任何权利，但你会感到十足的使命感。因为政府在作出每个决定时有着至高无上的权力。
en:So I don&#39;t know —No, just this? Thanks.I don&#39;t know —what you would doif you were toldyour job is to save the planet.Put that on the job description.And you have full responsibility,but you have absolutely no authority,because governments are sovereignin every decision that they take.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:我着实很想了解，在第一个星期一的早晨，你会怎么做？我当时是：怕的要死。
en:Well, I would really love to knowwhat you would doon the first Monday morning,but here&#39;s what I did: I panicked.
时间： 3:59
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:01
zh-cn:接着，我还是感到害怕，因为我意识到，我不知道该如何解决这个问题。我不知道该如何解决这个问题，但我知道一点：我们要改变这个会话的氛围。如果你不积极面对，你是不可能成功的。
en:And then I panicked again,because I realized I have no ideahow we&#39;re going to solve this problem.And then I realized I have no ideahow we&#39;re going to solve this problem,but I do know one thing:we have got to changethe tone of this conversation.Because there is no wayyou can deliver victorywithout optimism.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:此时此刻，我以乐观向上这个非常简单的词，但让我们从广义层面上来理解这个词。让我们把它理解为勇气，希望，信任以及齐心协力，秉持着人类能够聚集在一起的基本信念以及能够为了更好的命运而相互帮助。试想一下，如果我不这么想，可能我们便没有办法从哥本哈根的无力状态里走出来。时隔六年，我怀抱着不屈不饶，冷酷无情的态度，向这个体系注入乐观主义，无论新闻发布会上会有怎样的问题，我现在变得更会处理这些问题了——而且，无论对立面有着怎样的蛛丝马迹。相信我，反证一直有很多。随着不屈不饶的把乐观主义带入体系，
en:And here,I use optimism as a very simple word,but let&#39;s understand itin its broader sense.Let&#39;s understand it as courage,hope, trust, solidarity,the fundamental beliefthat we humans can come togetherand can help each otherto better the fate of mankind.Well, you can imaginethat I thought that without that,there was no way we were goingto get out of the paralysis of Copenhagen.And for six years,I have stubbornly, relentlesslyinjected optimism into the system,no matter what the questionsfrom the press —and I have gotten better at those —and no matter what the evidenceto the contrary.And believe you me, there has beena lot of contrary evidence.But relentless optimism into the system.
时间： 5:25
zh-cn:过了没多久，我们开始在很多领域里碰到挑战，使数百万千的人们突然陷入其中，也包括今天在座的各位，对此，我向你们表达我的谢意。我想，TED群体应该不会对我待会要说的话感到惊讶，我们当时见证了，第一个领域的惊人变化，便是...科技。我们开始关注清洁技术，特别是可再生能源技术，开始降低成本，并提高生产力，为了我们如今已经建立起来的集中太阳能发电厂，能够拥有足够的能量来攻击整个城市，而对那些我们在流动性以及智能大厦中的作为闭口不提。然而，有了科技这个转变，我们开始能够理解，从经济均衡来看，也是个转变，因为我们能够认识到，一，气候变化需要巨大的成本，二，其中也有各种风险。但其中也有经济优势，以及内在利益，因为清洁技术的散播，能够带给我们更新鲜的空气，使我们更健康，交通也更顺畅，更多宜居的城市，更多能源保证，以及会有更多能够助于世界发展的能源出现。总而言之，会有一个比我们现在还要棒的世界。
en:And pretty soon,we began to see changeshappening in many areas,precipitated by thousands of people,including many of you here today,and I thank you.And this TED communitywill not be surprisedif I tell you the first areain which we saw remarkable changewas ...technology.We began to see that clean technologies,in particular renewableenergy technologies,began to drop priceand increase in capacity,to the point where todaywe are already buildingconcentrated solar power plantsthat have the capacityto power entire cities,to say nothing of the factof what we are doing on mobilityand intelligent buildings.And with this shift in technologies,we were able to begin to understandthat there was a shiftin the economic equation,because we were able to recognizethat yes, there arehuge costs to climate change,and yes, there are compounded risks.But there also are economic advantagesand intrinsic benefits,because the disseminationof the clean technologiesis going to bring us cleaner air,better health,better transportation,more livable cities,more energy security,more energy accessto the developing world.In sum, a better worldthan what we have now.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:有了这个觉悟，你应该见证一下，事实上，你已经参与其中，经历了其聪明才智和兴奋的蔓延，首当其冲的是非政府方，私营企业，业界巨头，保险公司，投资方，市领导人，各种信仰的社区，因为他们都开始懂得，这着实和他们的切身利益有关。这确实可以提升他们的最终盈利。
en:And with that understanding,you should have witnessed,in fact, part of you were,the spread of ingenuity and excitementthat went through,first through nonnational governments,the private sector, captains of industry,insurance companies,investors, city leaders,faith communities,because they all began to understand,this actually can be in their interest.This can actuallyimprove their bottom line.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:而这并非是秋后算账。我必须和你说，有个在非常大型的石油和天然气公司任职的首席执行官，在去年年初的时候找到我，和我说道 —当然，是私底下 —他当时不知道该如何改变目前的公司状况，但是他又这个打算，因为他看中的是公司长久的可行性。嗯，现在，我们在经济均衡方面有了转变，而由于这个转变，以及大家广泛的支持，我们见证各国政府在对自身国家利益上的觉悟，也不会太久。并且当我们开始让各国政府去定义，他们改如何为全球做出贡献时，但是是在本国利益的基础上，195个国家中的189个国家，189个国家都献出了他们应对气候变化的详尽计划，这计划是在本国利益基础上，同时结合了他们的重点，并与各国持久发展计划相符合。
en:And it wasn&#39;t just the usual suspects.I have to tell you I had the CEOof a major, major oil and gas companycome to me at the beginning of last yearand say —privately, of course —he did not know howhe was going to change his company,but he is going to change it,because he&#39;s interestedin long-term viability.Well, now we have a shiftin the economic equation,and with that, with broadersupport from everyone,it did not take very longbefore we saw that national governmentswoke up to the factthat this is in their national interest.And when we asked countriesto begin to identifyhow they could contributeto global effortsbut based on their national interest,189 countries out of 195,189 countries sent theircomprehensive climate change plans,based on their national interest,concurrent with their priorities,consistent with their nationalsustainable development plans.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:当然，一旦你保护了各国的核心利益，你会了解到各国也准备好，开始通往同一条道路，朝向同一个方向，这也将带给我们可能数十个年头，或者超过数十个年头，一番新经济的景象，进入一个脱碳化，高度强韧经济时期，而那时各国所做出的贡献，也将代表各国政府，展示于人前，虽还不足于带给我们一个稳定的气候，但这迈出的第一步，将随着时间的推延，得到提升。而这些结果的衡量，汇报以及验证，是具有法律约束力的。而这些我们每五年都要面对的关卡，为了达到我们目标而评估总体进展，也是具有法律约束力的，而这条通往脱碳化，更加强韧经济的道路，也是具有法律约束力的。
en:Well,once you protectthe core interests of nations,then you can understandthat nations were readyto begin to converge onto a common path,onto a common direction of travelthat is going to take usprobably several decades,but over those several decadesis going to take usinto the new economy,into a decarbonized,highly resilient economy,And the national contributionsthat are currently on the tableon behalf of national governmentsare insufficient to get usto a stabilized climate,but they are only the first step,and they will improve over time.And the measurement, reportingand verification of all of those effortsis legally binding.And the checkpoints that we&#39;regoing to have every five yearsto assess collective progresstowards our goal are legally binding,and the path itself towarda decarbonized and more resilient economyis legally binding.
时间： 9:59
zh-cn:还有更重要的点是：我们之前拥有的是什么？屈指可数的国家，都经历了非常缩减的，短期的减排承诺，而这仅仅是不够的，另外，很大程度上被视为一种负担。那现在我们拥有的是什么？我们现在有的是来自世界的各个国家，用不同的方式，在不同的区域，以不同的强度来做出他们的贡献，但是他们都是为了同一个目标，怀着整体环保的心情，朝着同一方向。一旦所有事物都适得其所，你会开始改变想法，然后你会看到各个国家都愿意前往巴黎，对巴黎协议表示认同。
en:And here&#39;s the more important part:What did we have before?A very small handful of countrieswho had undertaken very reduced,short-term emission reduction commitmentsthat were completely insufficientand furthermore,largely perceived as a burden.Now what do we have?Now we have all countries of the worldcontributing with different intensitiesfrom different approachesin different sectors,but all of themcontributing to a common goaland along a pathwith environmental integrity.Well, once you have all of this in placeand you have shifted this understanding,then you see that governmentswere able to go to Parisand adopt the Paris agreement.
时间：10:52
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:00
zh-cn:所以，当我回顾一切，回顾这过去的六年，跳出的第一件事，便是巴黎协议被采纳的那天。我形容不出那时在房间里的愉悦。5000个人都高兴的从椅子上跳了起来，哭泣，鼓掌，尖叫，呐喊着，欣喜之情和难以置信间的纠葛，是他们之前刚见证到的，因为有太多的人，为达成这个目标而工作数年，然而现在终于实现了。
en:So,as I look backover the past six years,first I rememberthe day the Paris agreement was adopted.I cannot tell youthe euphoria in the room.5,000 people jumping out of their seats,crying, clapping, screaming, yelling,torn between euphoria and still disbeliefat what they had just seen,because so many peoplehad worked for years towards this,and this was finally their reality.
时间：11:43
zh-cn:而这不仅仅是直接参与的那些人。几周前，我和一位同事，他当时在为他美丽的妻子Natasha，选择大溪地珍珠来作为礼物的时候。当他终于决定要买哪个的时候，店员和他说道，“你知道吗，你现在买下这个十分幸运，因为这些珍珠灰因为气候变化，很快就会不复存在。““但是，”店员说道，“你知道吗，政府刚提出一个决策，大溪地可能还有一线生机。“这证实太棒了，可能，有可能便有希望，这是个可能性。我是第一个意识到我们还有很多事要去做。在气候变化的问题上，我们仅仅只是开始。而且事实上，我们要确保能够，在接下来十分重要的五年内，增加我们的成效。而且我相信，我们所经历的这六年，我们从不可能，成长为如今的势不可挡。而我们又是如何做到的呢？通过注入具有转变意义的乐观态度，那使得我们能够从对峙到合作，那使得我们去理解国家以及当地的利益，而并非是于全球需求所抗衡的，并且如果我们理解这点，就能够使大家团结起来，我们可以使大家都和睦相处。
en:And it wasn&#39;t just thosewho had participated directly.A few weeks ago, I was with a colleaguewho was trying to decideon a Tahitian pearl that he wantedto give to his wonderful wife Natasha.And once he had finally decidedwhat he was going to buy,the jeweler said to him,&quot;You know, you&#39;re very luckythat you&#39;re buying this now,because these pearls could go extinctvery soon because of climate change.&quot;&quot;But,&quot; the jeweler said, &quot;have you heard,the governmentshave just come to a decision,and Tahiti could have a chance.&quot;Well, what a fantastic confirmationthat perhaps, perhaps here is hope,here is a possible chance.I&#39;m the first one to recognizethat we have a lot of work still to do.We&#39;ve only just startedour work on climate change.And in fact, we need to make surethat we redouble our effortsover the next five yearsthat are the urgent five years.But I do believethat we have come over the past six yearsfrom the impossibleto the now unstoppable.And how did we do that?By injecting transformational optimismthat allowed us to gofrom confrontation to collaboration,that allowed us to understandthat national and local interestsare not necessarily at oddswith global needs,and that if we understand that,we can bring them togetherand we can merge them harmoniously.
时间：13:23
zh-cn:当我回顾其他的全球议题时，需要我们对这世纪的关注 —食品安全，水源安全，家庭保全，强制迁移 —我想我们目前还不是十分清楚，该如何解决这些问题。但我们可以为在气候变化上做出的贡献，画下新的篇章，并且我们知道，我们应该重新定义零和心态。因为我们老是被灌输应该去相信，凡是都有输有赢，不是你输，就是我赢。然而，我们共同生活在同一个世界，一个我们都会碰到许多界限的世界，我们并非只是相互联结，而是越来越相互依靠，输了的对立面，不再是赢了。我们要么全盘皆输，要么大获全胜。我们需要在从无到有中，进行选择。我们需要在毫无利益，还是为全人类畅享生活中作出选择。我们已经做到过了。我们还可以再做到。
en:And as I look forwardto other global issuesthat will requireour attention this century —food security, water security,home security, forced migration —I see that we certainly do not knowhow we are going to solvethose problems yet.But we can take a pageout of what we have done on climate changeand we can understandthat we have got to reinterpretthe zero-sum mentality.Because we were trained to believethat there always are winners and losers,and that your loss is my gain.Well, now that we&#39;re in a worldin which we have reachedplanetary boundariesand that we are notjust so interconnected,but increasinglyinterdependent on each other,your loss is no longer my gain.We&#39;re either all losersor we all can be winners.But we are going to have to decidebetween zero and sum.We&#39;re going to have to decidebetween zero benefit for allor living life as the sum of all of us.We&#39;ve done it once. We can do it again.
时间：14:41
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thanks.
时间：14:42
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
