时间： 0:11
zh-cn:你所做过最可怕的事是什么？或者用另外一种方式来说，你做过最危险的事是什么？你为什么要这么做？我知道我所做过最危险的事是什么。因为美国宇航局做了计算。当你回顾最初的五个航天飞机发射，就会发现，灾难性事件发生的几率在第一次五个航天飞机发射期间是九分之一。甚至当我在穿梭机首飞早在 1995 年，74 次航天飞行，当我们现在回头看几率是大约每 38 个左右——每 35 个、每 40 个有一个失败。几率不是很大，这是很有趣的一天当你在肯尼迪航天中心醒来就在这一天，你即将出发前往太空，因为你意识到，在这天接近尾声的时候你要么光荣地、毫不费力地在太空中漂浮着，要么就已经死了。你进入肯尼迪航天中心，走进更衣间，就是那个我们童年英雄更衣的同一个房间，尼尔·阿姆斯特朗和巴兹·奥尔德林在此更衣随后登上阿波罗号火箭前往月球。我穿着加压服乘坐厢式车驶向发射台，乘坐宇航局的厢式车，向发射台驶去，当你即将抵达肯尼迪航天中心，通常是黎明前，距离你不远处的，被氙气大灯照得锃亮的，就是你将搭载的宇宙飞船——它会带你离开这个星球。全体人员坐在车里很安静，手牵手，看着那宇宙飞船越来越大。我们搭乘电梯上去我们用手和膝盖爬进太空飞船，一次进一个人，你蠕动到你的椅子上，让自己坐定下来背部紧贴座椅。接着，舱门关闭了，突然间，一生的梦想和拒绝的事正在成为现实，我梦想的东西事实上，我九岁时的梦想，现在突然在未来的几分钟内就要真正地发生了。在宇航界，航天飞机是非常复杂的运载工具；它是有史以来最复杂的飞行工具。在宇航界，我们有一种说法是，问题没有最糟只有更糟。（笑声）你在驾驶舱内头脑十分清醒；你在想着所有你需要完成的事情，包括所有的开关和所有的小闸门。随着时间越来越近，你也越发兴奋。在发射前的三分半钟，背后巨大的喷射器，其尺寸如同教堂的大钟，来回摇摆感觉就像这样让整个宇宙飞船随之摇摆，仿佛你脚下的飞船是活着的，像是大象站立起来之类的。然后在发射前约 30 秒时，飞船完全地活动起来——准备好要出发了—加速处理器在运行，计算机都是自控的，它已准备离开这个星球。在发射前 15 秒的情况是这样的：（视频）声音： 12、 11、 10、九、 八、 七、 六...（航天飞机准备起飞）— — 开始，二，一，助推器点火，发射航天飞机，返回空间站，铺平道路......（航天飞机起飞）
en:What&#39;s the scariest thing you&#39;ve ever done?Or another way to say it is,what&#39;s the most dangerous thing that you&#39;ve ever done?And why did you do it?I know what the most dangerous thing isthat I&#39;ve ever donebecause NASA does the math.You look back to the first five shuttle launches,the odds of a catastrophic eventduring the first five shuttle launcheswas one in nine.And even when I first flew in the shuttleback in 1995, 74 shuttle flight,the odds were still now that we look backabout one in 38 or so — one in 35, one in 40.Not great odds, so it&#39;s a really interesting daywhen you wake up at the Kennedy Space Centerand you&#39;re going to go to space that daybecause you realize by the end of the dayyou&#39;re either going to be floating effortlessly, gloriously in space,or you&#39;ll be dead.You go into, at the Kennedy Space Center,the suit-up room,the same room that our childhood heroesgot dressed in,that Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin got suited into go ride the Apollo rocket to the moon.And I got my pressure suit built around meand rode down outside in the vanheading out to the launchpad —in the Astro van — heading out to the launchpad,and as you come around the cornerat the Kennedy Space Center,it&#39;s normally predawn, and in the distance,lit up by the huge xenon lights,is your spaceship —the vehicle that is going to take you off the planet.The crew is sitting in the Astro vansort of hushed, almost holding hands,looking at that as it gets bigger and bigger.We ride the elevator upand we crawl in, on your hands and kneesinto the spaceship, one at a time,and you worm your way upinto your chair and plunk yourself downon your back.And the hatch is closed,and suddenly,what has been a lifetime of both dreams and denialis becoming real,something that I dreamed about,in fact, that I chose to do when I was nine years old,is now suddenly within not too many minutesof actually happening.In the astronaut business —the shuttle is a very complicated vehicle;it&#39;s the most complicated flying machine ever built.And in the astronaut business, we have a saying, which is,there is no problem so badthat you can&#39;t make it worse.(Laughter)And so you&#39;re very conscious in the cockpit;you&#39;re thinking about all of the thingsthat you might have to do,all the switches and all the wickets you have to go through.And as the time gets closer and closer,this excitement is building.And then about three and a half minutes before launch,the huge nozzles on the back,like the size of big church bells,swing back and forthand the mass of them is suchthat it sways the whole vehicle,like the vehicle is alive underneath you,like an elephant getting up off its knees or something.And then about 30 seconds before launch,the vehicle is completely alive —it is ready to go —the APUs are running,the computers are all self-contained,it&#39;s ready to leave the planet.And 15 seconds before launch, this happens:(Video) Voice: 12, 11, 10,nine, eight, seven, six —(Space shuttle preparing for takeoff)— start, two, one,booster ignition, and liftoff of the space shuttle Discovery,returning to the space station, paving the way ...(Space shuttle taking off)
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:克里斯‧哈德菲尔德：搭载宇宙飞船感觉到的是难以置信的力量。你被比自己强大许多的东西握在手中。它剧烈地摇晃着，让你难以集中精神操作你面前的设备。就像你在巨型犬的下巴里，你的背后有只脚将你推向太空，疯狂加速直冲云霄，带着你穿越气层，随后你就到达了一个非常复杂的地方——注意，观察飞船穿过一扇扇小闸门脸上的笑容愈发灿烂。两分钟后，这些固体火箭脱落下去剩下的是液体火箭发动机，含有氢和氧，这感觉犹如你在高速赛车，脚踩在地上，以前所未有的速度前进。你变得越来越轻，我们所感受到的推动力越来越强。这种感觉就像有人在往你身上浇筑水泥似的。终于，在约 8 分钟 40 秒左右时间之后，我们到达正确的高度，正确的速度，正确的方向，接着引擎关闭了，我们失重了。我们还活着。
en:Chris Hadfield: It is incredibly powerfulto be on board one of these things.You are in the grip of somethingthat is vastly more powerful than yourself.It&#39;s shaking you so hard you can&#39;t focuson the instruments in front of you.It&#39;s like you&#39;re in the jaws of some enormous dogand there&#39;s a foot in the small of your backpushing you into space,accelerating wildly straight up,shouldering your way through the air,and you&#39;re in a very complex place —paying attention, watching the vehiclego through each one of its wicketswith a steadily increasing smile on your face.After two minutes, those solid rockets explode offand then you just have the liquid engines,the hydrogen and oxygen,and it&#39;s as if you&#39;re in a dragsterwith your foot to the floorand accelerating like you&#39;ve never accelerated.You get lighter and lighter,the force gets on us heavier and heavier.It feels likesomeone&#39;s pouring cement on you or something.Until finally,after about eight minutes and 40 seconds or so,we are finally at exactly the right altitude,exactly the right speed,the right direction, the engine shut off,and we&#39;re weightless.And we&#39;re alive.
时间： 5:17
zh-cn:这是一次奇妙的体验。但我们为什么要冒这个险呢？你为什么要做如此危险的事情?
en:It&#39;s an amazing experience.But why would we take that risk?Why would you do something that dangerous?
时间： 5:26
zh-cn:在我看来答案是相当简单的。在我年轻的时候，我发现这是我想要做的事。我观看了人类第一次的月球行走，对我来说，这太明显了——我想要自己未来也成为这样的人。但真正的问题是，你如何处理随之而来的危险和与危险随之而来的恐惧呢？你是如何处理恐惧与危险的？铭记这个目标，想着它会带领我前往的方向指引我过着关注所有能让这目标实现的所有小细节，为了能够发射前往太空帮助建立国际空间站，你搭乘一辆价值上百万英镑的交通工具，它以五英里每秒的速度八公里每秒的速度绕地球飞行，相当于一天内绕地球 16 次，飞船装载了很多有待在太空中完成的实验，这些实验将会解释宇宙的实质是什么，并且，还要在飞船内进行 200 场实验 。但也许更重要的是，它能让我们以独特的视角看这个世界，这是不可能通过任何其他方式完成的，能够在这样的高空往下看你会惊讶到连下巴都掉下来——转动着的地球美得令人惊艳好似自我旋转中的极美的画廊，这个世界本身不断变化着的美丽。你看，出于运转速度原因，每 45 分钟就有一次日出或日落持续半年。最棒的部分，是去外太空行走。你搭乘着“单人宇宙飞船”，也就是你自己的的宇航服，你将会和世界一起穿越太空。这是个完全不同的角度，你不是抬头去看宇宙，而是你和地球一起在宇宙中翱翔。你用一只手抓住飞船，看着世界在你身边转动。它以静默的方式咆哮被注以水波似的颜色和纹理就在你身边。如果你可以把自己的目光移开，看向你手臂的下方下面是其余的一切，它是深不可测的黑暗空间，让你觉得可以把手放进去的那种纹理。你用一只手抓着飞船，另一只手连结着 70 亿人。我在飞船外进行第一次太空行走的时候，
en:In my case the answer is fairly straightforward.I was inspired as a youngsterthat this was what I wanted to do.I watched the first people walk on the moonand to me, it was just an obvious thing —I want to somehow turn myself into that.But the real question is,how do you deal with the danger of itand the fear that comes from it?How do you deal with fear versus danger?And having the goal in mind,thinking about where it might lead,directed me to a life oflooking at all of the small details to allowthis to become possible,to be able to launch and go help build a space stationwhere you are on board a million-pound creationthat&#39;s going around the world at five miles a second,eight kilometers a second,around the world 16 times a day,with experiments on board that are teaching uswhat the substance of the universe is made ofand running 200 experiments inside.But maybe even more importantly,allowing us to see the world in a waythat is impossible through any other means,to be able to look downand have — if your jaw could drop, it would —the jaw-dropping gorgeousness of the turning orblike a self-propelled art gallery of fantastic,constantly changing beauty that is the world itself.And you see, because of the speed,a sunrise or a sunset every 45 minutesfor half a year.And the most magnificent part of all thatis to go outside on a spacewalk.You are in a one-person spaceshipthat is your spacesuit,and you&#39;re going through space with the world.It&#39;s an entirely different perspective,you&#39;re not looking up at the universe,you and the Earth are going through the universe together.And you&#39;re holding on with one hand,looking at the world turn beside you.It&#39;s roaring silentlywith color and texture as it pours bymesmerizingly next to you.And if you can tear your eyes away from thatand you look under your armdown at the rest of everything,it&#39;s unfathomable blackness,with a texture you feel like you could stick your hand into.and you are holding on with one hand,one link to the other seven billion people.And I was outside on my first spacewalk
时间： 7:51
zh-cn:我的左眼失明了，我不知道为什么会这样。突然间，我的左眼就失明了并伴随着剧烈的痛苦，我不明白眼睛失明的原因。我考虑着，下一步该怎么办呢?我想，也许这就是我们人类有两只眼睛的原因，所以我继续工作着。但不幸的是，在失重情况下，眼泪不会掉下来。所以你眼里的液状球体变得越来越大与你的眼泪混合在一起直到最后，液态球变得很大表面张力让它跨过你的鼻梁像一个小小的瀑布进入你的另一只眼睛，于是我就彻底失明了那时我在太空飞船的外面。
en:when my left eye went blind,and I didn&#39;t know why.Suddenly my left eye slammed shutin great painand I couldn&#39;t figure out why my eye wasn&#39;t working.I was thinking, what do I do next?I thought, well maybe that&#39;s why we have two eyes,so I kept working.But unfortunately, without gravity,tears don&#39;t fall.So you just get a bigger and bigger ball of whatever that ismixed with your tears on your eyeuntil eventually, the ball becomes so bigthat the surface tension takes it across the bridge of your noselike a tiny little waterfalland goes &quot;goosh&quot; into your other eye,and now I was completely blindoutside the spaceship.
时间： 8:34
zh-cn:那么你最可怕遭遇是什么？（笑声）也许是蜘蛛。很多人都害怕蜘蛛。人们确实会害怕蜘蛛——蜘蛛令人毛骨悚然，它们有长长的毛茸茸的双腿，这种蜘蛛，棕色的隐士——非常可怕。如果棕色隐士咬了你，可怕的大面积肌肉坏死将会出现在你的腿上现在可能就会有一个棕色隐士坐在你背后的椅子上。你怎么会知道呢？如果有一只蜘蛛爬到你身上，你就会猛烈地攻击它，因为蜘蛛都是可怕的。你可以说，有棕色的隐士坐在我旁边的椅子上吗?我不知道。有棕色隐士在这里吗？如果你真正地做了研究，你就会发现，在世界上有约 5 万种不同类型的蜘蛛，在这 5 万种蜘蛛中，大约有 24 余种是有毒的。如果你在加拿大，冬季寒冷在不列颠哥伦比亚省有约为 720、730 种不同类型的蜘蛛有一个，一个，是有毒的，它的毒液甚至并不致命，它会蜇你让你有刺痛感。那种蜘蛛 ——不只是那样，那种蜘蛛身上有着美丽的标记，好像在告诉人们 “我很危险，我的背上有个大大的辐射符号，我是黑寡妇。”所以，如果你只需稍微小心就可以避免碰到蜘蛛——蜘蛛生活在离地面很近的地方，你沿路走着，永远不会碰到一张蜘蛛网，被那里的黑寡妇蜘蛛咬伤。黑寡妇蜘蛛不会编织这样的蜘蛛网，它们的网通常会在角落里。它名叫黑寡妇，那是因为母蜘蛛会吃掉公蜘蛛；它根本不在乎你。因此，事实上，下一次你走入一张蜘蛛网的时候，你不需要感到恐慌，也不需要呈现你的穴居人反应。危险与恐惧完全不同。
en:So what&#39;s the scariest thing you&#39;ve ever done?(Laughter)Maybe it&#39;s spiders.A lot of people are afraid of spiders.I think you should be afraid of spiders —spiders are creepy and they&#39;ve got long, hairy legs,and spiders like this one, the brown recluse —it&#39;s horrible. If a brown recluse bites you,you end with one of these horrible, big necrotic thingson your legand there might be one right nowsitting on the chair behind you, in fact.And how do you know?And so a spider lands on you,and you go through this great, spasmy attackbecause spiders are scary.But then you could say, well is there a brown reclusesitting on the chair beside me or not?I don&#39;t know. Are there brown recluses here?So if you actually do the research, you find out thatin the world there are about 50,000 different types of spiders,and there are about two dozen that are venomousout of 50,000.And if you&#39;re in Canada, because of the cold wintershere in B.C., there&#39;s about 720, 730 different types of spidersand there&#39;s one — one —that is venomous,and its venom isn&#39;t even fatal,it&#39;s just kind of like a nasty sting.And that spider — not only that,but that spider has beautiful markings on it,it&#39;s like &quot;I&#39;m dangerous. I got a big radiation symbol on my back, it&#39;s the black widow.&quot;So, if you&#39;re even slightly carefulyou can avoid running into the one spider —and it lives close the ground,you&#39;re walking along, you are never going to go througha spider web where a black widow bites you.Spider webs like this, it doesn&#39;t build those,it builds them down in the corners.And its a black widow becausethe female spider eats the male;it doesn&#39;t care about you.So in fact,the next time you walk into a spiderweb,you don&#39;t need to panic and go with your caveman reaction.The danger is entirely different than the fear.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:你如何能够绕过它？你如何能改变自己的行为？好吧，下次当你见到一张蜘蛛网的时候，仔细端详一下，确保它不是黑寡妇蜘蛛的网，然后穿越它。后来，你看到另一个蜘蛛网你穿越它。它只是有点毛绒绒的东西。没什么大不了的。编织这张网的蜘蛛对你形成的威胁不会大过于一只瓢虫或者是一只蝴蝶。我向你保证，如果你穿越过 100 张蜘蛛网你将会改变你最基本的人类行为，你如同穴居人般的反应，你现在能够早上在公园散步不去不担心那蛛网——或到你祖母的阁楼或之类的地方，到你自己的地下室。你可以将此经验应用于一切事物。
en:How do you get around it, though?How do you change your behavior?Well, next time you see a spiderweb,have a good look, make sure it&#39;s not a black widow spider,and then walk into it.And then you see another spiderweband walk into that one.It&#39;s just a little bit of fluffy stuff. It&#39;s not a big deal.And the spider that may come out is no more threat to you than a lady bugor a butterfly.And then I guarantee you if you walk through 100 spiderwebsyou will have changedyour fundamental human behavior,your caveman reaction,and you will now be able to walk in the park in the morningand not worry about that spiderweb —or into your grandma&#39;s attic or whatever,into your own basement.And you can apply this to anything.
时间：11:01
zh-cn:如果你在外太空行走的时候失明了，你的自然反应是恐慌，我觉得。它会使你紧张和担心。但我们曾考虑过所有毒液，我们实践了各种不同的蜘蛛网。我们知道该了解的关于宇航服的一切我们在水下训练过数千次。我们不只是实践任务顺利的情况，我们一直都在练习如何处理出差错的情况，这样，你不断穿越过那些蜘蛛网。不只是在水下，也在模拟实验室带着头盔和手套所以感觉是很真实的。当你最终真正在外太空行走时，它和想象中的感觉有诸多不同，即使你第一次出去。即使你失明了，你自然地惊慌反应不会发生。相反，你四处看看然后想，好吧，我看不见，但听得见，我可以说话，斯科特▪帕拉辛斯基是和我一起从这里出去的。他能过来帮我&quot;。我们实际上练习过救援丧失行为能力的乘员组，所以他可以把我当做小型飞船浮动必要的情况下并把我塞进气闸舱。我自己能回到飞船。这不是什么严重的事。事实上，如果你继续哭一会儿，在你眼里的粘稠物就会开始淡化，然后你就恢复视力了，休斯顿活检中心，如果你与他们沟通，他们会允许你继续工作。我们完成了这次太空行走所需完成的全部内容，我们回到飞船里面，杰夫用棉花清理了我眼睛周围的东西其实只是防雾剂，类似油和肥皂的混合物，跑到我的眼睛里。所以现在我们使用强生公司的无泪系列产品，其实从一开始我们就该使用这系列产品的。（笑声）
en:If you&#39;re outside on a spacewalk and you&#39;re blinded,your natural reaction would be to panic, I think.It would make you nervous and worried.But we had considered all the venom,and we had practiced with a whole variety of different spiderwebs.We knew everything there is to knowabout the spacesuitand we trained underwater thousands of times.And we don&#39;t just practice things going right,we practice things going wrong all the time,so that you are constantly walking through those spiderwebs.And not just underwater, but also in virtual reality labswith the helmet and the glovesso you feel like it&#39;s realistic.So when you finally actually get outside on a spacewalk,it feels much different than it wouldif you just went out first time.And even if you&#39;re blinded,your natural, panicky reaction doesn&#39;t happen.Instead you kind of look around and go,&quot;Okay, I can&#39;t see,but I can hear, I can talk,Scott Parazynski is out here with me.He could come over and help me.&quot;We actually practiced incapacitated crew rescue,so he could float me like a blimpand stuff me into the airlock if he had to.I could find my own way back.It&#39;s not nearly as big a deal.And actually, if you keep on crying for a while,whatever that gunk was that&#39;s in your eye starts to diluteand you can start to see again,and Houston, if you negotiate with them,they will let you then keep working.We finished everything on the spacewalkand when we came back inside,Jeff got some cotton batting and took the crusty stuff around my eyes,and it turned out it was just the anti-fog,sort of a mixture of oil and soap, that got in my eye.And now we use Johnson&#39;s No More Tears,which we probably should&#39;ve been usingright from the very beginning. (Laughter)
时间：12:39
zh-cn:但关键在于两者的区别认为的危险与实际的危险，真正的危险在哪里？你真正应该害怕的事情是什么？不只是对可能发生坏事而感到恐惧。你可以从根本上改变你对事情的反应这样，它会让你去别的地方看不同的东西，做新的事情，否则你会拒绝做出改变......
en:But the key to that isby looking at the differencebetween perceived danger and actual danger,where is the real risk?What is the real thing that you should be afraid of?Not just a generic fear of bad things happening.You can fundamentally change your reaction to thingsso that it allows you to go placesand see things and do thingsthat otherwise would be completely denied to you ...
时间：13:03
zh-cn:你可以看到撒哈拉以南地区的砂砾层，你也可以看到纽约以极近梦幻般的方式，你还能看到东欧随意分布的方格地貌或者是北美五大湖看起来好似小水坑的集结。你可以看到旧金山的断层线和水从桥下涌出的样子，如果你没能找到征服恐惧的办法，你将没有任何其他办法来看到如此这般壮美的景象。不用这种方式，你将永远不会看到如此美好的景致。
en:where you could see the hardpan south of the Sahara,or you can see New York Cityin a way that is almost dreamlike,or the unconscious gingham of Eastern Europe fieldsor the Great Lakesas a collection of small puddles.You can see the fault lines of San Franciscoand the way the water pours out under the bridge,just entirely differentthan any other way that you could haveif you had not found a way to conquer your fear.You see a beauty that otherwisenever would have happened.
时间：13:38
zh-cn:该结束了，是时候回家了。这是我们的太空船联盟号，较小的那个。我们三个爬进去，随后这艘太空飞船从空间站分离坠入大气层。这两个部分开始熔化， 我们抛弃它们让它们在大气中燃烧。剩下的部分只是那个小小的子弹，我们坐在里面，随后它落入大气层，本质上来说你是搭着一个陨石回家，乘坐陨石是可怕的，就是这样。但是比起搭载它进入大气层只是尖叫着，正如你突然发现自己乘坐的是陨石返回地球——（笑声）相反，20 年前我们已经开始学习俄语，一旦你会说俄语，然后我们用俄语学习轨道力学，之后，我们学了运载工具控制理论，然后我们打了模拟器并一遍又一遍地练习。事实上，你可以操纵飞行这个陨石让它降落在半径约 15 公里的地球上的任意位置。事实上，当我们宇航员们返回地球的时候搭乘联盟号宇宙飞船进入大气层，我们不是在尖叫，我们在大笑 ；这太有趣了。当巨大的降落伞打开时，我们知道如果它无法打开有第二个降落伞备用，并且它的运行水平犹如一个钟表装置般精密。回来了，我们雷鸣般地回到地球，这是当时的场景展示了联盟号飞船降落在哈萨克斯坦的土地上。（视频）记者：你可以看到其中一个搜寻救援直升机，又一次出现这是俄罗斯Mi-8 型直升机中的一架。着陆——3 时 14 分 48 秒，中部时间上午。克里斯‧哈德菲尔德：飞船滚动直到停止就像有人把你的飞船扔在地上那样它不断翻滚直至停止，但你已经对此做好准备了你在一个定制的座椅上，你了解避震器的工作原理。终于，俄罗斯人来了，把你从飞船中拖出来，让你坐在椅子上，你现在可以回想那令人难以置信的经历。你已完成了那个九岁男孩的梦想，这几乎是不可能实现的而且非常可怕，恐怖地令人生畏，但你将梦想付诸实践，并想出了重振自己的办法，以对抗本能的恐惧，所以，它允许你带着一些经验和一些启示回来，分享给其他人，否则这些永远不可能发生。要结束了，他们希望我弹吉他。我熟悉这首歌，这是对大卫·鲍伊本人最佳的赞叹，与此同时，我想，再次强调我们不是机器在探索宇宙，我们是人类，我们有着能力去适应有能力去理解有能力在新环境下自我认知。（音乐）♫ 这是汤姆上校呼叫地控中心 ♫♫ 我永远地离开 ♫♫ 我正以最奇特的方式漂浮着 ♫♫ 今天的星星看起来与往常不同 ♫♫ 我在这个罐头里漂浮着 ♫♫ 最后看一眼世界 ♫♫ 地球是蓝色的，还有那么多事要去完成 ♫（音乐）无所畏惧。（鼓掌）非常感谢你们。非常感谢。谢谢。
en:It&#39;s time to come home at the end.This is our spaceship,the Soyuz, that little one.Three of us climb in,and then this spaceship detaches from the stationand falls into the atmosphere.These two parts hereactually melt, we jettison them and they burn upin the atmosphere.The only part that survives is the little bulletthat we&#39;re riding in,and it falls into the atmosphere,and in essenceyou are riding a meteorite home,and riding meteorites is scary,and it ought to be.But instead of riding into the atmospherejust screaming, like you wouldif suddenly you found yourself riding a meteoriteback to Earth — (Laughter) —instead, 20 years previouslywe had started studying Russian,and then once you learn Russian, then welearned orbital mechanics in Russian,and then we learned vehicle control theory,and then we got into the simulatorand practiced over and over and over again.And in fact, you can fly this meteoriteand steer it and land in about a 15-kilometer circleanywhere on the Earth.So in fact, when our crew was coming backinto the atmosphere inside the Soyuz,we weren&#39;t screaming, we were laughing;it was fun.And when the great big parachute opened,we knew that if it didn&#39;t openthere&#39;s a second parachute,and it runs on a nice little clockwork mechanism.So we came back, we came thundering backto Earth and this is what it looked liketo land in a Soyuz, in Kazakhstan.(Video) Reporter: And you can see one of thosesearch and recovery helicopters, once againthat helicopter part of dozen such RussianMi-8 helicopters.Touchdown — 3:14 and 48 seconds,a.m. Central Time.CH: And you roll to a stopas if someone threw your spaceship at the groundand it tumbles end over end,but you&#39;re ready for ityou&#39;re in a custom-built seat,you know how the shock absorber works.And then eventually the Russians reach in,drag you out,plunk you into a chair,and you can now look back atwhat was an incredible experience.You have taken the dreams of thatnine-year-old boy,which were impossibleand dauntingly scary,dauntingly terrifying,and put them into practice,and figured out a way to reprogram yourself,to change your primal fearso that it allowed you to come backwith a set of experiences and a level of inspirationfor other peoplethat never could have been possible otherwise.Just to finish, they asked me to play that guitar.I know this song,and it&#39;s really a tribute to the geniusof David Bowie himself,but it&#39;s also, I think,a reflection of the fact that we are not machinesexploring the universe,we are people,and we&#39;re takingthat ability to adaptand that ability to understandand the ability to takeour own self-perception into a new place.(Music)♫ This is Major Tom to ground control ♫♫ I&#39;ve left forevermore ♫♫ And I&#39;m floating in a most peculiar way ♫♫ And the stars look very different today ♫♫ For here am I floating in the tin can ♫♫ A last glimpse of the world ♫♫ Planet Earth is blue and there&#39;s so much left to do ♫(Music)Fear not.(Applause)That&#39;s very nice of you. Thank you very much.Thank you.
