时间： 0:14
zh-cn:嗯，我下了公交，走到街角，正准备往西走去上盲文培训班。－－那是2009年的冬天，那时我已失明约一年－－一切还挺顺利我安全地到了街的另一头。我向左转，按了盲人过街的语音提示按钮，等着过马路。當提示声响起，我走了出去并且安全地过到马路另一边。走上人行道，我随后听见一把铁椅子在我面前划过水泥人行道的声音。我知道街角有个咖啡馆，他家店前摆着椅子，所以我就向左边避了避移到靠路那一边。我正移着，那椅子也向这边移。我估计我搞错了，于是又重新走到右边，接着那椅子（居然）跟我完全合拍地也向那边移去。这下我有点慌了。我又向左挪了挪，椅子也向左挪了挪，挡住了我的去路。这会儿我已经開始抓狂了，于是我喊道，“谁他妈在那儿？搞什么鬼？”就在那时，高过我的喊声，我听到一阵熟悉的悉悉唆唆声。這声音听起来好熟，我灵机一动，想到了另一个可能性，于是伸出我的左手，我的手指穿过毛茸茸的什么东西，接着是一只耳朵，一只狗耳朵——可能是一只黃金猎犬。她的主人进去买咖啡的时候，把她的狗链拴到那个椅子上，它正努力不懈地試著来跟我打招呼，也许想要我挠挠它的耳根，天知道，没准它正想帮我带路呢。（笑声）
en:So, stepping down out of the bus,I headed back to the cornerto head west en route to a braille training session.It was the winter of 2009,and I had been blind for about a year.Things were going pretty well.Safely reaching the other side,I turned to the left,pushed the auto-button forthe audible pedestrian signal,and waited my turn.As it went off, I took offand safely got to the other side.Stepping onto the sidewalk,I then heard the sound of a steel chairslide across the concrete sidewalk in front of me.I know there&#39;s a cafe on the corner,and they have chairs out in front,so I just adjusted to the leftto get closer to the street.As I did, so slid the chair.I just figured I&#39;d made a mistake,and went back to the right,and so slid the chair in perfect synchronicity.Now I was getting a little anxious.I went back to the left,and so slid the chair,blocking my path of travel.Now, I was officially freaking out.So I yelled,&quot;Who the hell&#39;s out there? What&#39;s going on?&quot;Just then, over my shout,I heard something else, a familiar rattle.It sounded familiar,and I quickly considered another possibility,and I reached out with my left hand,as my fingers brushed against something fuzzy,and I came across an ear,the ear of a dog, perhaps a golden retriever.Its leash had been tied to the chairas her master went in for coffee,and she was just persistent in her effortsto greet me, perhaps get a scratch behind the ear.Who knows, maybe she was volunteering for service.(Laughter)
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:这个小故事在描述的是那种伴随着瞎眼闯都市而來的恐惧和误解，你对周围的环境似乎一无所知对周围的人亦然无知。
en:But that little story is really aboutthe fears and misconceptions that come alongwith the idea of moving through the citywithout sight,seemingly oblivious to the environmentand the people around you.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:让我们还是稍稍倒带。回到2008年的圣帕特里克节。我在医院登记开刀切除一颗脑瘤。手术很成功。两天后，我的视力开始减退。第三天我就完全失明了。
en:So let me step back and set the stage a little bit.On St. Patrick&#39;s Day of 2008,I reported to the hospital for surgeryto remove a brain tumor.The surgery was successful.Two days later, my sight started to fail.On the third day, it was gone.
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:一瞬间，我被一阵难以言喻的恐惧、迷茫及无助所击倒，相信这事儿发生在谁身上谁都会这样。然而当我慢慢停下来思考，其实我逐渐意识到我依然拥有很多值得我去感恩的東西。尤其是我想起我的父亲，他逝世于脑部手术的并发症。享年36岁，而我当年才七岁。所以说，即使我有理由对未来感到害怕，对未来感到迷茫，至少我还活著。我儿子还有爸爸。而且我又不是世界上第一个失明的人。我知道這世上一定有各种系统和技术以及训练能让我即使失去了视力，也能过有意义且积极的生活。
en:Immediately, I was struck by an incredible senseof fear, of confusion, of vulnerability,like anybody would.But as I had time to stop and think,I actually started to realizeI had a lot to be grateful for.In particular, I thought about my dad,who had passed away from complicationsfrom brain surgery.He was 36. I was seven at the time.So although I had every reasonto be fearful of what was ahead,and had no clue quite what was going to happen,I was alive.My son still had his dad.And besides, it&#39;s not like I was the first personever to lose their sight.I knew there had to be all sorts of systemsand techniques and training to haveto live a full and meaningful, active lifewithout sight.
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:所以几天之后当我出院时，我给自己下了一个任务，那就是一定要尽可能找到最好的训练尽快重新建构我的人生。不到六个月，我就回到了原来的工作岗位。我的恢复训练开始了。我甚至开始和我之前的骑友一起骑双人自行车，而且自己一个人步行穿街，搭乘公交。那费了不少功夫。
en:So by the time I was discharged from the hospitala few days later, I left with a mission,a mission to get out and get the best trainingas quickly as I could and get on to rebuilding my life.Within six months, I had returned to work.My training had started.I even started riding a tandem bikewith my old cycling buddies,and was commuting to work on my own,walking through town and taking the bus.It was a lot of hard work.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:但我始料未及的是经过那场突如其来的变故我得以在很短的时间内比较失明前后对同样的地方、同样的人令人难以置信的（兴许截然不同的）体验
en:But what I didn&#39;t anticipatethrough that rapid transitionwas the incredible experience of the juxtapositionof my sighted experienceup against my unsighted experienceof the same places and the same peoplewithin such a short period of time.
时间： 4:13
zh-cn:由此让我增加了不少见解或者说是盲解。即失明后所学到的一些东西。这些“盲解”从琐碎到深奥，从平乏到幽默（皆有）。作为一个建筑师，从我失明前后的对同一个地方 对同一个城市在如此短暂的时间内截然不同的体验， 给了我很多关于城市本身，美妙的盲解。其中最重要的是意识到，其实，城市对盲人而言是个妙不可言的地方。其次 我也惊叹于城市善良和爱护的本性而不是冷漠，甚至更糟。我进而意识到好像盲人对城市本身亦有积极的影响。对我来说，这挺出奇的
en:From that came a lot of insights,or outsights, as I called them,things that I learned since losing my sight.These outsights ranged from the trivalto the profound,from the mundane to the humorous.As an architect, that stark juxtapositionof my sighted and unsighted experienceof the same places and the same citieswithin such a short period of timehas given me all sorts of wonderful outsightsof the city itself.Paramount amongst thosewas the realization that, actually,cities are fantastic places for the blind.And then I was also surprisedby the city&#39;s propensity for kindness and careas opposed to indifference or worse.And then I started to realize thatit seemed like the blind seemed to havea positive influence on the city itself.That was a little curious to me.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:让我们回过头来想想为什么城市对盲人来说是件这么好的事。在视力恢复训练这个过程中不可避免的是学会依靠除了视觉以外的其他所有感官，——这些可能平时你都忽视的东西。就仿佛一个全新的感知信息的世界向你敞开大门。我被这个城市中，我身边的各种细微的声响所组成的交响乐所深深震撼借助听到的并学会利用这些声音你方能明了你所处何方，如何移步，向哪里走。同理，仅仅是通过握住的一根盲杖，你能感受到脚下地面的不同纹理，久而久之 你就能形成一个 “你在哪里，你到哪里去的” 模式。就好像，当阳光温暖你的半边脸颊或者微风拂过你的脖颈你就能知道你的所处，你穿过街巷的过程，你于时空的移动，喔还有——嗅觉。有些城市有些城区有他们自己的味道，就像你身边的地方和东西一样，而且，幸运的话，你甚至可以跟着你的鼻子去到那个你一直寻找的新开的面包店。
en:Let me step back and take a lookat why the city is so good for the blind.Inherent with the training for recovery from sight lossis learning to rely on all your non-visual senses,things that you would otherwise maybe ignore.It&#39;s like a whole new world of sensory informationopens up to you.I was really struck by the symphonyof subtle sounds all around me in the citythat you can hear and work withto understand where you are,how you need to move, and where you need to go.Similarly, just through the grip of the cane,you can feel contrasting textures in the floor below,and over time you build a pattern of where you areand where you&#39;re headed.Similarly, just the sun warming one side of your faceor the wind at your neckgives you clues about your alignmentand your progression through a blockand your movement through time and space.But also, the sense of smell.Some districts and cities have their own smell,as do places and things around you,and if you&#39;re lucky, you can even follow your noseto that new bakery that you&#39;ve been looking for.
时间： 6:21
zh-cn:这一切都让我惊奇，因为我慢慢意识到我失明后的经历相比于之前有视力时是多么充满（不同）感官的感受也让我震惊的是，我身边的城市有多大的变化。当你能看见的时候，每个人都有点各自为阵，不管别人的事儿。然而，失明之后，事情是大不同。我是不知道谁在看谁，但我怀疑很多人看着我。而我并不是个偏执狂， 但无论我去哪里，我总接到各种建议：来这边， 去那边， 小心这个。很多信息都是好的。其中不乏有用的。 也不乏扭曲的。你得自己搞清楚他们到底什么意思。其中有些并不那么对且帮不上忙。但总体而言是很好的。
en:All this really surprised me,because I started to realize thatmy unsighted experiencedwas so far more multi-sensorythan my sighted experience ever was.What struck me also was how much the citywas changing around me.When you&#39;re sighted,everybody kind of sticks to themselves,you mind your own business.Lose your sight, though,and it&#39;s a whole other story.And I don&#39;t know who&#39;s watching who,but I have a suspicion thata lot of people are watching me.And I&#39;m not paranoid, but everywhere I go,I&#39;m getting all sorts of advice:Go here, move there, watch out for this.A lot of the information is good.Some of it&#39;s helpful. A lot of it&#39;s kind of reversed.You&#39;ve got to figure out what they actually meant.Some of it&#39;s kind of wrong and not helpful.But it&#39;s all good in the grand scheme of things.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:有一次我在奥克兰沿着百老汇街走着， 走到一个街角。我正在等着过马路的信号音，声音响起，我正准备过马路，突然，我的右手被人一把抓住，他拽过着的胳膊，把我拉上斑马线又拽着我过了马路，对着我狂讲中文。（笑声）从这个人死死抓住的手中，简直没有逃脱的可能，但他把我安全带过了马路。我能怎样呢？但是说真的，要帮忙还真有更客气点的方式。我都还不知道你在旁边呢，所以如果能开始先说句“你好”可能会比较好。如“你需要帮忙么？”
en:But one time I was in Oaklandwalking along Broadway, and came to a corner.I was waiting for an audible pedestrian signal,and as it went off, I was just aboutto step out into the street,when all of a sudden, my right handwas just gripped by this guy,and he yanked my armand pulled me out into the crosswalkand was dragging me out across the street,speaking to me in Mandarin.(Laughter)It&#39;s like, there was no escapefrom this man&#39;s death grip,but he got me safely there.What could I do?But believe me, there are more polite waysto offer assistance.We don&#39;t know you&#39;re there,so it&#39;s kind of nice to say &quot;Hello&quot; first.&quot;Would you like some help?&quot;
时间： 7:54
zh-cn:但是在奥克兰，我真的被自我失明之后，这座城市所经历的改变所震撼。我当然喜欢能看到它时样子，那不错这是个非常好的城市。但是当我失明之后，当我走过百老汇，在每个街区都能得到别人的祝福。
en:But while in Oakland, I&#39;ve really been struck byhow much the city of Oakland changedas I lost my sight.I liked it sighted. It was fine.It&#39;s a perfectly great city.But once I lost my sightand was walking along Broadway,I was blessed every block of the way.
时间： 8:14
zh-cn:“祝福你， 伙计”
en:&quot;Bless you, man.&quot;
时间： 8:15
zh-cn:“加油，老弟”
en:&quot;Go for it, brother.&quot;
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:“老天保佑你”
en:&quot;God bless you.&quot;
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:我失明前可没得到过那么多祝福。（笑声）而且即使是失明之后，我在旧金山也没有得到那样的祝福。而且我知道，这有时惹得我的一些盲人朋友很烦，不仅仅是我。通常我们认为那些祝福是出于怜悯。而我更倾向于觉得那是出于我们共同的人性，出于一种大家在一起的感觉，而且我觉得这还挺酷的。事实上，如果我心情不好，我就去奥克兰市中心的百老汇，我去散个步，立马就感觉好多了，简直就是立刻见效。
en:I didn&#39;t get that sighted.(Laughter)And even without sight,I don&#39;t get that in San Francisco.And I know it bothers some of my blind friends,it&#39;s not just me.Often it&#39;s thought thatthat&#39;s an emotion that comes up out of pity.I tend to think that it comesout of our shared humanity,out of our togetherness, and I think it&#39;s pretty cool.In fact, if I&#39;m feeling down,I just go to Broadway in downtown Oakland,I go for a walk, and I feel better like that,in no time at all.
时间： 8:54
zh-cn:但这也正说明，残障和失明跨越了民族、社会阶层、人种、经济状况的界限残疾简直是平权的提供者。人人皆可有份。其实，我听说残疾人这个群体间有句话说世上其实只有两种人：一种有残疾的，另一种是还没发现他们自身的残疾的。这是看问题的另一个角度，但我觉得这还挺美的，因为这相比 “我们/他们”，或者“健全人/残疾人” 的说法显然要更包容，而且也更加诚实，并尊重生命的脆弱。
en:But also that it illustrates howdisability and blindnesssort of cuts across ethnic, social,racial, economic lines.Disability is an equal-opportunity provider.Everybody&#39;s welcome.In fact, I&#39;ve heard it said in the disability communitythat there are really only two types of people:There are those with disabilities,and there are those that haven&#39;tquite found theirs yet.It&#39;s a different way of thinking about it,but I think it&#39;s kind of beautiful,because it is certainly far more inclusivethan the us-versus-themor the abled-versus-the-disabled,and it&#39;s a lot more honest and respectfulof the fragility of life.
时间： 9:39
zh-cn:所以我最后希望你们记住是不仅仅是城市对盲人来说是好的，城市也需要像我这样的盲人。而且我很确定我今天想要向大家倡议当我们构想一个美妙的新城时让我们采用盲人作为城市居民的原型，而不是当模型已经定型之后才想起的群体。那时就太迟了。所以如果你在设计一座城市的时候，请心中有盲人那你设计出来的，将是一座有着丰富的，充满可步行的便道的城市有给行人充分多样的选择且都在地平面上。如果你在设计一座城市的时候，心中有盲人，人行道将会是可预测的，慷慨的。建筑之间的间隙将会是很好地平衡了人与车的需求。事实上， 车？ 谁还需要车啊？如果你失明了，你也开不了车 （笑声）别人可不愿看到你开车 （笑声）如果你在设计一座城市的时候，心中有盲人那你设计出来的城市将拥有健全的无障碍的，四通八达的公共交通联结城市的各个区域甚至整个大区如果你在设计一座城市的时候, 心中有盲人那城市将能够提供大量工作机会。盲人也想工作。他们也想自力更生。
en:So my final takeaway for you isthat not only is the city good for the blind,but the city needs us.And I&#39;m so sure of that thatI want to propose to you todaythat the blind be taken asthe prototypical city dwellerswhen imagining new and wonderful cities,and not the people that are thought aboutafter the mold has already been cast.It&#39;s too late then.So if you design a city with the blind in mind,you&#39;ll have a rich, walkable network of sidewalkswith a dense array of options and choicesall available at the street level.If you design a city with the blind in mind,sidewalks will be predictable and will be generous.The space between buildings will be well-balancedbetween people and cars.In fact, cars, who needs them?If you&#39;re blind, you don&#39;t drive. (Laughter)They don&#39;t like it when you drive. (Laughter)If you design a city with the blind in mind,you design a city with a robust,accessible, well-connected mass transit systemthat connects all parts of the cityand the region all around.If you design a city with the blind in mind,there&#39;ll be jobs, lots of jobs.Blind people want to work too.They want to earn a living.
时间：11:03
zh-cn:所以，在设计一座予盲人方便的城市时，我希望你开始意识到这座城市将会对所有人来说更加包容更加公平， 更加公正。而且据我失明前的经验来看，这样的城市听上去挺酷的，——无论你失明与否， 无论你是否有残疾或者说无论你是否已经发现了自身的残疾。
en:So, in designing a city for the blind,I hope you start to realizethat it actually would be a more inclusive,a more equitable, a more just city for all.And based on my prior sighted experience,it sounds like a pretty cool city,whether you&#39;re blind, whether you have a disability,or you haven&#39;t quite found yours yet.
时间：11:24
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:So thank you.
时间：11:27
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
