时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在成长的过程中，我并不总能理解为何我的父母让我遵循他们所遵循的规矩。比如，为什么我非要修剪草坪？为什么家庭作业就这么重要？为什么不能把软糖放在燕麦里边？
en:Growing up, I didn&#39;t always understandwhy my parents made mefollow the rules that they did.Like, why did I really have to mow the lawn?Why was homework really that important?Why couldn&#39;t I put jelly beans in my oatmeal?
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:我的童年充斥着类似的问题。这在孩童时期很正常，并且我意识到有的时候，最好还是听父母的话，即使你并不理解为何他们要你这么做。并不是他们不希望我能够批判的思考。他们的教育方式总是寻求缓解矛盾，让我和我的兄弟姐妹在看清现实世界的同时，确保我们不会屈从于不可避免的现状。
en:My childhood was aboundwith questions like this.Normal things about being a kidand realizing that sometimes,it was best to listen to my parentseven when I didn&#39;t exactly understand why.And it&#39;s not that they didn&#39;t wantme to think critically.Their parenting always sought to reconcile the tensionbetween having my siblings and Iunderstand the realities of the world,while ensuring that we never acceptedthe status quo as inevitable.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:我意识到这种方式本身，是一种很有意义的教育。我最爱的教育家之一，巴西作家和学者保罗·弗莱雷，曾公开说过对教育的需求要成为批判性意识和共享人性的工具。在他最著名的《被压迫者教育学》一书中，他指出，“当一个人要阻止他人成为人时，他就不算是个真正意义上的人。”
en:I came to realize that this,in and of itself,was a very purposeful form of education.One of my favorite educators,Brazilian author and scholar Paulo Freire,speaks quite explicitlyabout the need for educationto be used as a tool for critical awakening and shared humanity.In his most famous book,&quot;Pedagogy of the Oppressed,&quot;he states, &quot;No one can be authentically humanwhile he prevents others from being so.&quot;
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:最近，我对这种人性的观点进行了很多思考，特别是那些人，在这个世界上被赋予了特权成为了完整的人。在过去的几个月,在全世界的注目下，手无寸铁的黑人男子与妇女，被警察和民间武装夺走了生命。这些事件所产生的影响让我想起了我的童年，以及我父母关于在美国抚养一个黑人孩子所作出的决定，在成长的过程中，我从未像现在这样理解他们的决定。
en:I&#39;ve been thinking a lot about this lately, this idea of humanity,and specifically, who in this worldis afforded the privilegeof being perceived as fully human.Over the course of the past several months,the world has watchedas unarmed black men, and women,have had their lives takenat the hands of police and vigilante.These events and all that has transpired after themhave brought me back to my own childhoodand the decisions that my parents madeabout raising a black boy in Americathat growing up, I didn&#39;t alwaysunderstand in the way that I do now.
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:我能想象当他们为了让我们能够在夜晚平安的回到家里，而不得不剥夺我们的部分童年，是多么艰难和不公平。
en:I think of how hard it must have been,how profoundly unfair it must have feltfor them to feel like they had to strip away parts of my childhoodjust so that I could come home at night.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:例如，我想到在我12岁时，在去往另一个城市郊游的夜晚，我和朋友们都带了水枪，并把旅馆的停车场变成了水枪战场。我们躲在车后面，在街灯间的黑暗中穿梭，笑声传遍了整条街道。但还不到10分钟，我的父亲就走了出来，反常地紧紧抓住我的前臂，把我拉回到了房间。在我还没来得及开口告诉他，他这么做让我在朋友面前多丢脸，他就开始嗤笑我太天真。他一脸后怕地看着我的眼睛说，“儿子，我很抱歉，但是你不能像你的白人朋友那样。你不能假装自己在开枪。你不能在夜里乱跑。一旦出事你没人可以保护你。“
en:For example, I think of how one night,when I was around 12 years old, on anovernight field trip to another city,my friends and I bought Super Soakersand turned the hotel parking lotinto our own water-filled battle zone.We hid behind cars,running through the darkness thatlay between the streetlights,boundless laughter ubiquitous across the pavement.But within 10 minutes,my father came outside, grabbed me by my forearmand led me into our roomwith an unfamiliar grip.Before I could say anything,tell him how foolish he had made me look in front of my friends,he derided me for being so naive.Looked me in the eye, fear consuming his face,and said, &quot;Son, I&#39;m sorry,but you can&#39;t act the same as your white friends.You can&#39;t pretend to shoot guns.You can&#39;t run around in the dark.You can&#39;t hide behind anythingother than your own teeth.&quot;
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:我现在知道了他当时是多么的害怕，我可能很容易就倒在这空荡荡的黑夜中，让别人把这水枪中的水，当做一个好的借口来清除掉我。
en:I know now how scared he must have been,how easily I could have falleninto the empty of the night,that some man would mistake this waterfor a good reason to washall of this away.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:我的一生都淹没在这些信息中：把你的手放在他们能够看到的地方，动作不要太快，晚上把你的帽子摘下来。我的父母为我和兄弟姐妹装备了一系列告诫，这无数警告只为我们能够平安活下来，而不需要因为肤色付出代价。这样我们才是活生生的孩子，而不是棺材或墓碑。这并不是因为他们想让我们比别的孩子更优秀，他们只希望我们平安地活着。
en:These are the sorts of messages I&#39;ve beeninundated with my entire life:Always keep your hands where they can see them, don&#39;t move too quickly,take off your hood when the sun goes down.My parents raised me and my siblingsin an armor of advice,an ocean of alarm bells so someonewouldn&#39;t steal the breath from our lungs,so that they wouldn&#39;t makea memory of this skin.So that we could be kids, not casket or concrete.And it&#39;s not because they thought itwould make us better than anyone elseit&#39;s simply because they wanted to keep us alive.
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:我所有的黑人朋友都在同样的信息和谈话中成长，当我们到了能够轻易被人按倒在地上的年龄时，当人们把我们的肤色与恐惧对应起来时。
en:All of my black friends were raisedwith the same message,the talk, given to us when we became old enoughto be mistaken for a nail readyto be hammered to the ground,when people made our melaninsynonymous with something to be feared.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:但是这么做对孩子的影响是什么，当在孩童时期就知道自己不能成为一个真正的孩子？青春期的冲动会危及你的生命，你无法再有好奇心，你没有资格犯错误，某人似有若无的偏见就可能是你没法活到第二天的原因。
en:But what does it do to a childto grow up knowing that youcannot simply be a child?That the whims of adolescenceare too dangerous for your breath,that you cannot simply be curious,that you are not afforded the luxuryof making a mistake,that someone&#39;s implicit biasmight be the reason you don&#39;twake up in the morning.
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:但是这些并不是定义我们的因素。因为我们的父母让我们知道，我们的身体并不意味着弹靶子，而意味着可以去放风筝和跳绳，并且笑到肚子疼。我们的老师教会我们在课堂上举手发言，而不是举起双手以示投降，我们唯一应该摒弃的观念就是我们不配在这个世界上生存。我们说黑人的生命很重要，并不是因为别人的生命无关紧要，只是因为我们必须在一切都否定我们的时候，还能无畏无惧的生存下去。我想生活在这样一个世界，在那里，我的孩子不需要一出生就被假定有罪，在那里，孩子手上的玩具不会被误认为是其他东西。
en:But this cannot be what defines us.Because we have parentswho raised us to understandthat our bodies weren&#39;t meantfor the backside of a bullet,but for flying kites and jumping rope,and laughing until our stomachs burst.We had teachers who taught us how to raise our hands in class,and not just to signal surrender,and that the only thing we should give upis the idea that we aren&#39;t worthy of this world.So when we say that black lives matter,it&#39;s not because others don&#39;t,it&#39;s simply because we must affirm that weare worthy of existing without fear,when so many things tell us we are not.I want to live in a world where my sonwill not be presumed guiltythe moment he is born,where a toy in his hand isn&#39;t mistakenfor anything other than a toy.
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:我拒绝承认我们不能够让这个世界变得更美好，在这个世界一个孩子的名字不需要被印在T恤或者被刻在墓碑上，一个人的生命价值不由除了呼吸之外的任何其他因素决定，一个我们每个人都能自由呼吸的地方。
en:And I refuse to accept that we can&#39;tbuild this world into something new,some place where a child&#39;s namedoesn&#39;t have to be written on a t-shirt, or a tombstone,where the value of someone&#39;s lifeisn&#39;t determined by anything other than the fact that they had lungs,a place where every single one of us can breathe.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
