时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我今天的演讲的内容也许你们中间的一些人已经听说过了。它就是阿拉伯之春。有没有人听说过？
en:My talk today is about somethingmaybe a couple of you have already heard about.It&#39;s called the Arab Spring.Anyone heard of it?
时间： 0:21
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 0:24
zh-cn:在2011年，权力发生了转移，从少数人手中到多数人手里，从椭圆形办公室转移到了中心广场上，从被严密控制的管道到开发的网络。但是在Tahrir广场成为解放的符号之前，已经有有代表性的调查给了人们一个表达自己的话语的机会用一种无声的，但是有力的方法。
en:So in 2011, power shifted,from the few to the many,from oval offices to central squares,from carefully guarded airwavesto open-source networks.But before Tahrir was a global symbol of liberation,there were representative surveysalready giving people a voicein quieter but still powerful ways.
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:我在Gallup公司研究世界各地的穆斯林社会。从2001年开始，我们采访了成千上万的人们——各个年龄的，男的和女的，受过教育的，和没有受过教育的。我今天的演讲利用这些研究来揭示为什么阿拉伯人会起来反抗和他们现在想要什么。
en:I study Muslim societies around the world at Gallup.Since 2001,we&#39;ve interviewed hundreds of thousands of people —young and old, men and women,educated and illiterate.My talk today draws on this researchto reveal why Arabs rose upand what they want now.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:现在这个地区非常多元化，所以每个国家都很独特。但是那些起来反抗的人们都有同意的苦难并且有同样的诉求。我会在我的演讲中很大程度上集中讲述埃及。当然，这并不是因为我出生在那里。而是因为它是最大的阿拉伯国家而且它有很大的影响力。但是最后我会把视角放大到整个地区来讨论更广泛性的话题针对阿拉伯世界的宗教和政治和它们如何影响妇女，这个过程中会讲到一些令人意外的发现。
en:Now this region&#39;s very diverse,and every country is unique.But those who revoltedshared a common set of grievancesand have similar demands today.I&#39;m going to focus a lot of my talk on Egypt.It has nothing to do with the fact that I was born there, of course.But it&#39;s the largest Arab countryand it&#39;s also one with a great deal of influence.But I&#39;m going to end by widening the lens to the entire regionto look at the mundane topicsof Arab views of religion and politicsand how this impacts women,revealing some surprises along the way.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:在分析了成堆的数据之后，我们发现：仅仅是失业率和贫困本身并不是引起2011年大规模阿拉伯世界反抗的唯一原因。如果说一个突尼斯水果商贩的铤而走险直接导致了这次革命，那么就是阿拉伯人所经历的和他们的期盼之间的差距是这次革命的内因。
en:So after analyzing mounds of data,what we discovered was this:Unemployment and poverty alonedid not lead to the Arab revolts of 2011.If an act of desperation by a Tunisian fruit vendorsparked these revolutions,it was the difference between what Arabs experiencedand what they expectedthat provided the fuel.
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:为了说明我的意思，请大家考虑在埃及的这种趋势。从纸面上看，这个国家的状况非常好。事实上，国际组织都对它给予了很高评价因为它的经济发展。但是表面之下的，是非常不同的现实。在2010年，就在革命之前，即使从国民生产总值看已经连续数年以5%的速度增长，埃及人从来没有感到生活如此的糟糕。
en:To tell you what I mean,consider this trend in Egypt.On paper the country was doing great.In fact, it attracted accoladesfrom multinational organizationsbecause of its economic growth.But under the surface was a very different reality.In 2010, right before the revolution,even though GDP per capitahad been growing at five percent for several years,Egyptians had never felt worse about their lives.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:这非常反常，因为从全球看，我们发现，一点儿也不出意料的是，当他们的国家变得富裕的时候，人们的感受应该更好。那是因为他们有更多的工作机会并且他们的国家也会提供更好的社会服务。但是在埃及情况正好相反。当国家的情况变好的时候，失业率而发是上升的人们的满意度对于像住房和教育这样的事物直线下降。但是这并不仅仅是针对经济不公平的愤怒。这也是人们对于自由的长久的诉求。和文明理论相反，阿拉伯人并不轻视西方式的自由，他们非常渴望它。
en:Now this is very unusual,because globally we find that, not surprisingly,people feel better as their country gets richer.And that&#39;s because they have better job opportunitiesand their state offers better social services.But it was exactly the opposite in Egypt.As the country got more well-off,unemployment actually roseand people&#39;s satisfactionwith things like housing and education plummeted.But it wasn&#39;t just anger at economic injustice.It was also people&#39;s deep longing for freedom.Contrary to the clash of civilizations theory,Arabs didn&#39;t despise Western liberty,they desired it.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:早在2001，我们问阿拉伯人，和全球的穆斯林，关于西方，他们最渴望的是什么。在最常见的答案中是自由和公正。以他们自己的语言回答一个开放式的问题时，我们听到这样的话，“他们的政治体制更透明“并且真正实现了民主。”另一个答案是：“解放和自由和它们的完全相溶。”高达90%以上的人埃及，印度尼西亚和伊朗在2005年告诉我们他们将要起草新的宪法对于 一个理论上的新国家它能保证言论自由作为一项基本的自由，尤其是在埃及。88%的人说，向着更为民族的方向发展会有助于穆斯林的发展——在所有的国家中这是最高的比例了。
en:As early as 2001,we asked Arabs, and Muslims in general around the world,what they admired most about the West.Among the most frequent responseswas liberty and justice.In their own words to an open-ended questionwe heard, &quot;Their political system is transparentand it&#39;s following democracy in its true sense.&quot;Another said it was &quot;liberty and freedomand being open-minded with each other.&quot;Majorities as high as 90 percent and greaterin Egypt, Indonesia and Irantold us in 2005that if they were to write a new constitutionfor a theoretical new countrythat they would guarantee freedom of speechas a fundamental right,especially in Egypt.Eighty-eight percent said moving toward greater democracywould help Muslims progress —the highest percentage of any country we surveyed.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:但是（民众）表达这种民主的诉求却是另外一种情况，尤其是在埃及。一方面，对于民主非常的渴求，他们又是世界上最不可能向官方表达自己的意见的人群上个月这个数据是仅仅4%。所以一方面，经济发展让一些人先富起来，却让更多的人状况更差。当人们感到越来越不自由，他们也感受到得到的越来越少。所以，人们并没有把以前的政权看作是慷慨的过度保护自己的长辈，他们把他们视作是监狱的典狱长。
en:But pressed up against these democratic aspirationswas a very different day-to-day experience,especially in Egypt.While aspiring to democracy the most,they were the least likely population in the worldto say that they had actually voiced their opinionto a public official in the last month —at only four percent.So while economic development made a few people rich,it left many more worse off.As people felt less and less free,they also felt less and less provided for.So rather than viewing their former regimesas generous if overprotective fathers,they viewed them as essentially prison wardens.
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:所以现在埃及人终止了穆巴拉克长达30年的统治，他们可以成为这个地区的一个榜样。如果埃及可以成功地建立一个法治之上的社会，它可以成为一个榜样。如果，然而导致革命的核心问题不能被解决，后果可能是灾难性的——不仅仅是对埃及，而是对整个地区来说。
en:So now that Egyptians have ended Mubarak&#39;s 30-year rule,they potentially could bean example for the region.If Egypt is to succeedat building a society based on the rule of law,it could be a model.If, however,the core issues that propelled the revolution aren&#39;t addressed,the consequences could be catastrophic —not just for Egypt,but for the entire region.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:迹象看起来并不好，有些人说。伊斯兰份子，而不是引起革命的开明派赢得了议会的大多数。军方已经镇压了平民的抗议并且这个国家的经济还在继续遭受打击。单独从这个基础上考查埃及，而且，忽视了真正的革命。因为埃及人更加乐观和过去的数年相比，宗教差别造成的分离远远比我们想象的要小而且表现出了渴求民主的姿态。
en:The signs don&#39;t look good, some have said.Islamists, not the young liberals that sparked the revolution,won the majority in Parliament.The military councilhas cracked down on civil society and protestsand the country&#39;s economy continues to suffer.Evaluating Egypt on this basis alone, however,ignores the real revolution.Because Egyptians are more optimisticthan they have been in years,far less divided on religious-secular linesthan we would thinkand poised for the demands of democracy.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:不管他们是支持伊斯兰份子，还是开明派，埃及人对于政府优先考虑的问题的看法非常一致，那就是工作，稳定和教育，并不是道德上的管制。但是归根结底在过去数十年中，首次他们想活跃地成为参与者，而不是旁观者，在他们国家的事物中。
en:Whether they support Islamists or liberals,Egyptians&#39; priorities for this government are identical,and they are jobs, stability and education,not moral policing.But most of all,for the first time in decades,they expect to be active participants, not spectators,in the affairs of their country.
时间： 7:23
zh-cn:我曾经和一群刚刚当选的议员们见面埃及和突尼斯的，在几个周之前。真正使得我对于他们感到惊奇的，是他们不仅仅乐观，他们让我惊奇的对于一个更好的世界的渴求。他们中的一个人对我说，“我们的人曾经习惯于聚集在咖啡馆看足球比赛”——或者是我们北美叫的所谓英式足球——“现在他们聚集在一起看议会会议。”（笑声）“他们真的在看我们，我们不由自主的担心我们不能达到他们的期望。”真正让我震撼的是在不到两年之前，真正让人们感到紧张的是担心他们被他们的政府监视。
en:I was meeting with a group of newly-elected parliamentariansfrom Egypt and Tunisiaa couple of weeks ago.And what really struck me about themwas that they weren&#39;t only optimistic,but they kind of struck me as nervous,for lack of a better word.One said to me,&quot;Our people used to gather in cafes to watch football&quot; —or soccer, as we say in America —&quot;and now they gather to watch Parliament.&quot;(Laughter)&quot;They&#39;re really watching us,and we can&#39;t help but worrythat we&#39;re not going to live up to their expectations.&quot;And what really struck meis that less than 24 months ago,it was the people that were nervousabout being watched by their government.
时间： 8:15
zh-cn:他们有那么多期待的原因正是因为他们有一个刚刚建立起来的，对于未来的期望。所以就在革命发生之前我们说，埃及人对于自己的生活从来没有感到如此的糟糕，但是不仅仅是那样，他们认为他们的未来也不会更好。当穆巴拉克被赶下台之后，真正发生改变的，不是生活变得容易了。实际上更困难了。但是人们对于未来的期许在明显的变好。这种期待，这种乐观，在一年的动荡中一直在延续着。
en:And the reason that they&#39;re expecting a lotis because they have a new-found hope for the future.So right before the revolutionwe said that Egyptians had never felt worse about their lives,but not only that, they thought their future would be no better.What really changed after the ouster of Mubarakwasn&#39;t that life got easier.It actually got harder.But people&#39;s expectations for their futurewent up significantly.And this hope, this optimism,endured a year of turbulent transition.
时间： 8:50
zh-cn:他们如此乐观的一个原因是因为，和很多人说的不同，大多数埃及人都认为，事情在很多方面都真得在发生变化。所以，以前埃及人参加选举的投票率是个位数在革命之前，上次选举的投票率是在70%左右——男人和女人。2010年选举的时候，仅仅有大概25%的人相信选举的可信度——我很惊奇是四分之一——90%的人认为上次选举是可信的。这一点很重要，是因为我们发现了一种联系：在人们对于他们民主进程的信念和他们对于被 压迫的人们可以改变他们的处境的这种信念之间这种改变仅仅是通过和平的方式。
en:One reason that there&#39;s this optimismis because, contrary to what many people have said,most Egyptians think things really have changed in many ways.So while Egyptians were knownfor their single-digit turnoutin elections before the revolution,the last election had around 70 percent voter turnout —men and women.Where scarcely a quarter believed in the honesty of elections in 2010 —I&#39;m surprised it was a quarter —90 percent thought that this last election was honest.Now why this mattersis because we discovered a linkbetween people&#39;s faith in their democratic processand their faith that oppressed peoplecan change their situationthrough peaceful means alone.
时间： 9:47
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:现在我知道你们中的一些人在想什么。埃及人，和其他的那些站起来，处在变革中的阿拉伯人，对政府有很高的期许。他们是长期的独裁统治的受害者，向往着一个父亲般的国家能解决他们所有的问题。但是这样的结论忽视了正在埃及发生的一次上层建筑的变革而不仅仅是在Tahrir广场摄像机拍摄下的景象。那就是，埃及人对于他们自己提出了更高的希望。
en:Now I know what some of you are thinking.The Egyptian people,and many other Arabs who&#39;ve revolted and are in transition,have very high expectations of the government.They&#39;re just victims of a long-time autocracy,expecting a paternal stateto solve all their problems.But this conclusion would ignorea tectonic shift taking place in Egyptfar from the cameras in Tahrir Square.And that is Egyptians&#39; elevated expectationsare placed first on themselves.
时间：10:35
zh-cn:在一个一直以来被认为是非常顺从的国家，在那儿，事情变得很糟糕，只有4%的人向公众的官方表达他们的不满，今天，90%的人告诉我们如果他们的社会中有问题，将由他们来决定解决这些问题。（鼓掌）四分之三的人相信他们不仅仅有责任，而且有能力做出改变。
en:In the country once known for its passive resignation,where, as bad as things got,only four percent expressed their opinion to a public official,today 90 percent tell usthat if there&#39;s a problem in their community,it&#39;s up to them to fix it.(Applause)And three-fourthsbelieve they not only have the responsibility,but the power to make change.
时间：11:08
zh-cn:这种情况也发生在女性身上，她们在变革中的角色不能被低估。她们中有医生，持不同政见者，艺术家和组织者。多达三分之一的和坦克和催泪弹作斗争的人争取埃及自由和公正的是妇女。
en:And this empowermentalso applies to women,whose role in the revoltscannot be underestimated.They were doctors and dissidents,artists and organizers.A full third of those who braved tanks and tear gasto ask or to demand liberty and justice in Egyptwere women.
时间：11:32
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:38
zh-cn:现在人们开始认真的关注伊斯兰派别的兴起对于妇女意味着什么。我们发现,关于宗教在法律和社会中的角色的结论是妇女的地位的不一致。我们发现妇女在一个国家看起来更像是男人在另外一个国家而不是像那个国家里的女性。这一点给我们的启示是女性如何看待宗教在社会中的角色更多地是由她们自己的国家的文化和环境塑造的而不是由单一的观点这种观点是，宗教就是简单地对女性不利。女性们认为，她们自己的角色必须是起到关键作用，并且是主动的。
en:Now people have raised some real concernsabout what the rise of Islamist parties means for women.What we&#39;ve found about the role of religion in lawand the role of religion in societyis that there&#39;s no female consensus.We found that women in one countrylook more like the men in that countrythan their female counterparts across the border.Now what this suggestsis that how women view religion&#39;s role in societyis shaped more by their own country&#39;s culture and contextthan one monolithic viewthat religion is simply bad for women.Where women agree, however,is on their own role,and that it must be central and active.
时间：12:29
zh-cn:这是我们看到的在一个国家里，性别的差距最大的地方——在女性权利的问题上。现在，女性对于女性权利的感觉对于这个地区的将来是很重要的。因为我们发现了一种关联在男性对于女性就业的支持率和多少妇女实际被雇佣之间在那个国家的职业领域。
en:And here is where we see the greatest gender difference within a country —on the issue of women&#39;s rights.Now how men feel about women&#39;s rightsmatters to the future of this region.Because we discovered a linkbetween men&#39;s support for women&#39;s employmentand how many women are actually employedin professional fields in that country.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:问题就变成了，什么导致了男性对于女性权利的支持？男人对于宗教和法律的观点是怎么样的？一个人对于整治中宗教的角色的观点是不是塑造他们对于女性权利的看法？答案是不。我们没有发现任何关联，无论如何没有任何相互影响在这两个变量之间。决定男性对于女性就业的支持的是男人的就业，他们受教育的水平和联合国人类发展指数的高分数。这意味着人类的发展而不是把宗教从教育中分离是女性参与的关键在中东变革中。
en:So the question becomes,What drives men&#39;s support for women&#39;s rights?What about men&#39;s views of religion and law?[Does] a man&#39;s opinionof the role of religion in politicsshape their view of women&#39;s rights?The answer is no.We found absolutely no correlation,no impact whatsoever,between these two variables.What drives men&#39;s support for women&#39;s employmentis men&#39;s employment,their level of educationas well as a high scoreon their country&#39;s U.N. Human Development Index.What this meansis that human development,not secularization,is what&#39;s key to women&#39;s empowermentin the transforming Middle East.
时间：13:55
zh-cn:这种变革还在继续。从华尔街到Mohammed Mahmoud大街理解普通人的理想理想从来没有如此的重要过。
en:And the transformation continues.From Wall Street to Mohammed Mahmoud Street,it has never been more importantto understand the aspirationsof ordinary people.
时间：14:08
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:10
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
