时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我们去创造和保持经济增长的能力，是我们这个时代的标志性的一个挑战。
en:Our ability to createand sustain economic growthis the defining challenge of our time.
时间： 0:20
zh-cn:当然， 不是说就没有别的挑战了，医疗保健，疾病，流行病，环境问题都是我们正在面对的挑战当然，还有激进的恐怖主义。然而，要解决我刚刚说到的这些问题的难度远远大于创造与维持经济增长的难度。
en:Of course there are other challenges —health care, disease burdensand pandemics,environmental challengesand, of course, radicalized terrorism.However,to the extent that we can actuallysolve the economic growth challenge,it will take us a long wayto solving the challengesthat I&#39;ve just elucidated.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:更重要的是，除非直到我们解决并创造了稳定、长期的经济成长，否则我们将不能解决那些棘手的，如今仍散播在全球的挑战，不论是医疗保健，教育，还是经济发展。
en:More importantly,unless and until we solve economic growthand create sustainable,long-term economic growth,we&#39;ll be unable to addressthe seemingly intractable challengesthat continue to pervade the globe today,whether it&#39;s health care,education or economic development.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:所以根本问题是：我们要怎样在经历金融危机后不断挣扎的高度发达的经济体中，例如美国和欧洲，制造经济增长呢？
en:The fundamental question is this:How are we going to create economic growthin advanced and developed economieslike the United States and across Europeat a time when they continue to struggleto create economic growthafter the financial crisis?
时间： 1:21
zh-cn:这些经济体持续失常发挥，并且使经济增长的三大要素垮下这三个要素是：资本，劳动和生产力。特别需要注意的是，那些发达的经济体中，持续有负债、财政赤字、劳动力质量与数量上的下降与侵蚀的问题、同时也看到生产力停滞现象。
en:They continue to underperformand to see an erosion in the threekey drivers of economic growth:capital, labor and productivity.In particular,these developed economiescontinue to see debts and deficits,the decline and erosionof both the quality and quantity of laborand they also see productivity stalling.
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:同样的脉络下，我们要如何在住着世界上90%的人口，其中平均70%人口25岁以下的新兴市场里创造经济增长呢？在发达国家，每年保持最低 7% 的经济增长至关重要，以此保证贫困人口的减少，完成人均收入在一代人的时间里翻倍的目标。但是现在，最大的新兴经济体—那些至少有五千万人口的国家 —仍然很难达到那百分之七的增长。更可怕的是，像印度、俄罗斯、南非、巴西这些国家，甚至是中国，经济增长远远落后于百分之七。而且，很多国家实际上正在倒退。
en:In a similar vein,how are we going to createeconomic growth in the emerging markets,where 90 percentof the world&#39;s population livesand where, on average,70 percent of the populationis under the age of 25?In these countries,it is essential that they growat a minimum of seven percent a yearin order to put a dent in povertyand to double per capita incomesin one generation.And yet today,the largest emerging economies —countries with at least50 million people —continue to struggle to reachthat seven percent magic mark.Worse than that,countries like India, Russia,South Africa, Brazil and even Chinaare falling belowthat seven percent numberand, in many cases, actually regressing.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:经济增长至关重要。只有经济进步了，国家和社会才可以有一个社会经济地位上升流动性、机遇、和高生活质量的良性循环，假设没有了经济增长，不仅这个国家每年的经济统计数据会缩水同时人们的生活水平也会降低。经济增长对个体的影响十分巨大。一旦增长趋势平缓了，人类发展和社会政局动荡的风险大大提高，这样一来，社会就变得灰暗，动乱， 脆弱。
en:Economic growth matters.With economic growth,countries and societiesenter into a virtuous cycleof upward mobility, opportunityand improved living standards.Without growth,countries contract and atrophy,not just in the annalsof economic statisticsbut also in the meaning of lifeand how lives are lived.Economic growth matterspowerfully for the individual.If growth wanes,the risk to human progressand the risk of politicaland social instability rises,and societies become dimmer,coarser and smaller.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:这个背景是重要的。而新兴市场的国家不需要和发达国家发展的一样快。
en:The context matters.And countries in emerging marketsdo not need to grow at the samerates as developed countries.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:是的，我知道在场的你们中间一些人会觉得这是一个大胆的说法。这里的一部分人会转过身去，对地球上正在发生的种种坏事唏嘘不已，并把一切归咎于经济增长。你们会担心全球人口过多。联合国最新的数据表明世界人口增长在2100年会进入平稳但那之前人口会到达110亿之多，因此你们开始担心自然资源的问题—可耕种的土地，可饮用水源，能源和矿产是否够用。你们同样也会担心环境的恶化。你们还会想提倡全世界和平共处的人类是怎么会变的这样贪婪和腐败。
en:Now, I know some of you in this roomfind this to be a risky proposition.There are some people herewho will turn aroundand be quite disillusionedby what&#39;s happened around the worldand basically ascribe thatto economic growth.You worry about theoverpopulation of the planet.And looking at the UN&#39;srecent statistics and projectionsthat the world will have11 billion people on the planetbefore it plateaus in 2100,you&#39;re concerned about what that doesto natural resources —arable land, potable water,energy and minerals.You are also concerned aboutthe degradation of the environment.And you worry about how man,embodied in the corporate globalist,has become greedy and corrupt.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:但是我今天在这里是要告诉你们的是经济增长恰恰是改善成千上万人生活的脊柱。更要强调的是，经济成长并不是只被资本主义所主导。
en:But I&#39;m here to tell you todaythat economic growthhas been the backboneof changes in living standardsof millions of people around the world.And more importantly,it&#39;s not just economic growththat has been driven by capitalism.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:资本主义的定义，简单地说，就是那些生产力因素，像是，贸易、工业、资本和劳动力，掌握在私人企业而非国家手上的部分。
en:The definition of capitalism,very simply put,is that the factors of production,such as trade and industry,capital and labor,are left in the handsof the private sector and not the state.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:在这里，非常关键的一点是要知道应被指责的不是经济增长本身，而是资本主义的变味。所以考虑到长期制造经济增长的需求，我们必須用较好的经济角度去追寻它。
en:It&#39;s really essential herethat we understandthat fundamentally the critiqueis not for economic growth per sebut what has happened to capitalism.And to the extent that we need to createeconomic growth over the long term,we&#39;re going to have to pursue itwith a better form of economic stance.
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:经济增长确实需要资本主义，但是必须是适当运作的资本主义。正如我之前提到的资本主义系统的核心已经被私人企业所定义控制住了。然而，即使这只是很简单的二分法：资本主义：好；非资本主义：不好。但要知道在实践中，资本主义像是个光谱。（资本的分配有很多种方式）我们有像是中国​​这类的国家，是实行国家资本主义的（国家掌控资本），而像美国那样的国家，是实行市场经济主义的（资本在市场流通）。
en:Economic growth needs capitalism,but it needs it to work properly.And as I mentioned a moment ago,the core of the capitalist systemhas been defined by private actors.And even this, however,is a very simplistic dichotomy.Capitalism: good; non-capitalism: bad.When in practical experience,capitalism is much more of a spectrum.And we have countries such as China,which have practicedmore state capitalism,and we have countrieslike the Unites Stateswhich are more market capitalist.
时间： 5:44
zh-cn:两个都是资本主义，但对资本主义的批评，却基本是冲着中国那样的不是纯市场资本主义的国家去的。
en:Our efforts to critiquethe capitalist system, however,have tended to focuson countries like Chinathat are in factnot blatantly market capitalism.
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:然而，我们有一个真正的理由及真正要注意的地方就是现在要把注意力放在有较单纯架构的资本主义上面，特别是那些由美国体现出来的资本主义。这个非常之重要，因为这一类的市场资本主义滋养腐败的一面开始遭受越来越多的批判，更可怕的是市场资本主义导致的贫富收入差距越来越严峻 —也就是少数人享受着多数人劳动成果的问题。
en:However, there isa real reason and real concernfor us to now focus our attentionson purer forms of capitalism,particularly those embodiedby the United States.This is really importantbecause this type of capitalismhas increasinglybeen afforded the critiquethat it is now fostering corruptionand, worse still,it&#39;s increasing income inequality —the idea that the few are benefitingat the expense of the many.
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:这里有两个我们需要解决的关键性问题。第一个是我们要怎样修正资本主义，使它有利于经济增长而同时又有助于铲除社会诟病。
en:The two really critical questionsthat we need to addressis how can we fix capitalismso that it can help create economic growthbut at the same timecan help to address social ills.
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:为了要思考这个架构，我们必须问我们自己，如今的资本主义到底是怎样运作的。答案很简单，资本主义是在个人效益最大化的基础上建成的，简而言之，人们自私地追寻自己想要的东西。只有当最他们的效益最大化了后，他们才会去认真思考，提供援助履行「社会契约」的重要性。当然，在这样一个系统里，政府也会赋税，然后再用部分的税收来资助社会项目，为的是让人民知道，政府的存在不是只有立法管理，同时也扮演了社会福利仲裁者的角色。但尽管如此，这个框架结构—这两个阶段的框架结构—是我们现在必须开始思考要如何改善资本主义模式的基础。
en:In order to think about that framing,we have to ask ourselves,how does capitalism work today?Very simplistically,capitalism is set on the basisof an individual utility maximizer —a selfish individualwho goes after what he or she wants.And only after they&#39;vemaximized their utilitydo they then decide it&#39;s importantto provide supportto other social contracts.Of course, in this systemgovernments do tax,and they use part of their revenuesto fund social programs,recognizing that government&#39;s roleis not just regulationbut also to be arbiter of social goods.But nevertheless,this framework —this two-stage framework —is the basis from which we must now startto think about how we canimprove the capitalist model.
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:为了实现这个蓝图，我认为可以从两方面入手。首先，我们可以借鉴右翼政策，去看看对我们有什么利益，去思考如何改善资本主义。
en:I would argue that there aretwo sides to this challenge.First of all,we can draw on the right-wing policiesto see what could be beneficial for usto think about howwe can improve capitalism.
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:特别要说的是，偏右派的政策偏向于关注像「条件转移」这样的事，所谓条件转移，指的就是付钱并奖励人民做我们认为可以帮助经济增长的事。举个例子，我们可以出钱请父母送孩子去上学，或者出钱请他们带孩子去打疫苗，
en:In particular,right-leaning policieshave tended to focus on thingslike conditional transfers,where we pay and reward peoplefor doing the thingsthat we actually thinkcan help enhance economic growth.For example,sending children to school,parents could earn money for that,or getting their childreninoculated or immunized,parents could get paid for doing that.
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:现在，不用去争论我们是否应该付钱给父母亲做他们本来就应该做的事，真正重要的事实是，这种 付钱让人做事的效果已经产生一些正向的结果，像是在墨西哥这个地方、巴西和其他在纽约的试点项目。
en:Now, quite apart from the debateon whether or notwe should be paying peopleto do what we think they should do anyway,the fact of the matteris that pay for performancehas actually yielded some positive resultsin places like Mexico,in Braziland also in pilot programs in New York.
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:同时，那些偏左派的做法也是有可取之处的。那些阐述政府需要扩张其职责和责任，使其不再定义狭窄，而是更大意义上成为生产因素仲裁者的言论在中国已经取得了显著的成绩。但是同时我们也要开始争论有关于私人企业该扮演的角色应该跳脱只顾营利的动机，而真正参与到社会项目中去。像社会合作责任项目这样的活动，尽管规模比较小，但也正在向正确的方向运作。当然，偏左派的政策有时也会把政府、非政府组织和私人企业的界限模糊掉。
en:But there are also benefitsand significant changes underwayon left-leaning policies.Arguments that government shouldexpand its role and responsibilityso that it&#39;s not so narrowly definedand that government should bemuch more of an arbiterof the factors of productionhave become commonplacewith the success of China.But also we&#39;ve started to have debatesabout how the role of the private sectorshould move awayfrom just being a profit motiveand really be more engagedin the delivery of social programs.Things like the corporatesocial responsibility programs,albeit small in scale,are moving in that right direction.Of course, left-leaning policieshave also tended to blur the linesbetween government,NGOs and private sector.
时间： 9:15
zh-cn:这个概念有两个特别合适的例子，一个是十九世纪的美国推出的基础设施项目真的就是公私企业的合作伙伴关系，另一个例子更近一些，因特网的出现也告诉了这个世界公众与私人是可以一起合作改善社会。
en:Two very good examples of thisare the 19th-century United States,when the infrastructure rolloutwas really aboutpublic-private partnerships.More recently, of course,the advent of the Internethas also proven to the worldthat public and private can work togetherfor the betterment of society.
时间： 9:35
zh-cn:我最想表达的信息其实是这个：我们不能藉由固执己见或坚持不必要的意识形态来继续尝试并解决世界经济成长的挑战。为了创造长期可持续的经济发展并且解决其他的猖狂的危机和社会腐败问题，我们必须要有更包容的心胸了解什么是可行的。
en:My fundamental message to you is this:We cannot continue to try and solvethe world economic growth challengesby being dogmaticand being unnecessarily ideological.In order to create sustainable,long-term economic growthand solve the challenges and social illsthat continue to plague the world today,we&#39;re going to have to bemore broad-mindedabout what might work.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:最终，我们必须要认清意识形态是增长之敌。
en:Ultimately,we have to recognizethat ideology is the enemy of growth.
时间：10:07
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：10:08
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：10:14
zh-cn:主持人Bruno Giussani：我想问你一些问题，丹碧莎,因为人们可以回应你的最后一句话，说增长本身也是一种意识形态，它本身还可能是我们这一时代最主要的一个。你想怎样回复这个观点呢？
en:Bruno Giussani: I want to aska couple of questions, Dambisa,because one could reactto your last sentenceby saying growth is also an ideology,it&#39;s possibly the dominantideology of our times.What do you sayto those who react that way?
时间：10:25
zh-cn:我得说， 这个观点是完全合理的，我认为我们已经讨论过，针对幸福这件事还有很多工作要做，而且，还有其他的测量方式可以衡量人们的成功，以及生活水平的改善。所以，我认为我们应该敞开心胸，讨论做什么事可以增进人类的生活水平，并且持续减少世界上的贫穷现象。
en:DM: Well, I think that that&#39;scompletely legitimate,and I think that we&#39;re alreadyhaving that discussion.There&#39;s a lot of workgoing on around happinessand other metrics being usedfor measuring people&#39;s successand improvements in living standards.And so I think that we should be opento what could deliver improvementsin people&#39;s living standardsand continue to reducepoverty around the world.
时间：10:45
zh-cn:BG：所以，基本上，你是在为「增长恢复」辩护，但是唯一的不威胁到地球的长期发展之路就是让经济增长以某种方式消除对资源的过度利用。你认为这会真的发生吗？
en:BG: So you&#39;re basically pleadingfor rehabilitating growth,but the only way for that happenwithout compromisingthe capacity of the earth,to take us on a long journey,is for economic growthsomehow to decouplefrom the underlying use of resources.Do you see that happening?
时间：10:59
zh-cn:我认为我对人类的能力与智慧是持比较乐观的看法。我认为我们可以开始限制我们自己对稀缺资源的滥用毕竟现如今大家都知道也都关心滥用资源所产生的副作用。
en:DM: Well, I think that I&#39;m more optimisticabout human ability and ingenuity.I think if we start to constrain ourselvesusing the finite, scarceand depleting resourcesthat we know today,we could get quite negativeand quite concernedabout the way the world is.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:但是， 我们已经看到罗马聚乐部之前宣称世界最终还是会用尽资源，不用去争论这些事情不可能。但我认为拥有才智我们可以淡化这一过程，我人认为我们可以重新利用资源，然后我们就会有更好的结果。所以这样一想，我对人类可以做的事还是挺乐观的。
en:However, we&#39;ve seen the Club of Rome,we&#39;ve seen previous claimsthat the world would berunning out of resources,and it&#39;s not to arguethat those things are not valid.But I think, with ingenuitywe could see desalination,I think we could reinvest in energy,so that we can actuallyget better outcomes.And so in that sense,I&#39;m much more optimisticabout what humans can do.
时间：11:34
zh-cn:BG：我对你所说的恢复经济增长并且考虑其他方向所感到震惊的是你好像在说要用资本主义去改变资本主义—给善意的行为打个标价做为诱因，或者就是让企业在社会问题中有更大的作用。这是你所认为的吗？
en:BG: The thing that strikes meabout your proposalsfor rehabilitating growthand taking a different directionis that you&#39;re kind of suggestingto fix capitalism with more capitalism —with putting a price tagon good behavior as incentiveor developing a bigger rolefor business in social issues.Is that what you&#39;re suggesting?
时间：11:55
zh-cn:DM：我是认为我们必须心胸开阔。有一点绝对的是我认为传统经济增长的模式并没有像我们期待的那样有效。我还认为如今世界最大经济体美国实行民主制、自由民主，作为它的核心政治立场，美国还实行自由的市场资本主义—某種程度上，它是自由的—自由的市场资本主义是它的经济立场。世界第二大经济体是中国。它有民主非优先顺位发展的政治制度，而它的国家资本主义，则是另一个完全不同的体质。这两个国家，是完全不同的政治模式，经济模式上也是完全不一样，但是它们一样有收入不平等指数，测量时用的是基尼系数。
en:DM: I&#39;m suggestingwe have to be open-minded.I think it is absolutely the casethat traditional models of economic growthare not working the waywe would like them to.And I think it&#39;s no accidentthat today the largesteconomy in the world, the United States,has democracy,liberal democracy,as it&#39;s core political stanceand it has free market capitalism —to the extent that it is free —free market capitalismas its economic stance.The second largest economy is China.It has deprioritized democracyand it has state capitalism,which is a completely different model.These two countries,completely different political modelsand completely different economic models,and yet they have the sameincome inequality numbermeasured as a Gini coefficient.
时间：12:36
zh-cn:我认为这才是我们应有的辩论，因为我们不清楚应采用什么样的体制，我们也需要再讨论，以及更多的谦卑之心来面对我们知道的和不知道的事物。
en:I think those are the debateswe should have,because it&#39;s not clear at allwhat model we should be adopting,and I think there needs to bemuch more discourseand much more humilityabout what we know and what we don&#39;t know.
时间：12:48
zh-cn:BG：最后一个问题，联合国气候变化大会即将在巴黎举行。如果你可以给在那里的所有国家代表发条推特，你会说什么？
en:BG: One last question.The COP21 is going on in Paris.If you could send a tweetto all the heads of stateand heads of delegations there,what would you say?
时间：12:58
zh-cn:DM：再次地，我很希望大家敞开心胸讨论。就像你注意到的一样，关于环境的问题逐渐被提上日程,在哥本哈根，72年在斯德歌尔摩。（举办​​的联合国人类环境大会—)我们会持续关注这些议题，部分原因是，根本没有基本的共识协议，事实上甚至在发达国家和发展中国家的意见上有分歧。发展中国家需要持续的经济增长如此，我们才不会有「政治不确定性」的国家。发达国家认为他们真的有责任去管理二氧化碳的排放及一些他们对全世界所造成的破坏，并同时在研究和发展的事业中成为领头羊。所以它们必须参加关于环境的讨论会。但是基本上，把所有政策归给发展中国家而不涉及发达国家在他们自己的市场需求和供应中所做的事是不可能的。
en:DM: Again, I would be very muchabout being open-minded.As you&#39;re aware,the issues aroundthe environmental concernshave been on the agenda many times now —in Copenhagen,&#39;72 in Stockholm —and we keep revisiting these issuespartly because there is nota fundamental agreement,in fact there&#39;s a schismbetween what the developedcountries believe and wantand what emerging market countries want.Emerging market countries needto continue to create economic growthso that we don&#39;t have politicaluncertainty in the those countries.Developed countries recognizethat they have a real,important responsibilitynot only just to managetheir CO2 emissionsand some of the degradationthat they&#39;re contributing to the world,but also as trendsetters in R&amp;D.And so they have to cometo the table as well.But in essence, it cannot be a situationwhere we start ascribing policiesto the emerging marketswithout developed countries themselvesalso taking quite a swipeat what they&#39;re doingboth in demand and supplyin developed markets.
时间：13:55
zh-cn:BG：丹碧莎，非常感谢你来到TED. DM:谢谢。
en:BG: Dambisa, thank you for coming to TED.DM: Thank you very much.
时间：13:59
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
