时间： 0:11
zh-cn:“不自由，毋宁死”
en:&quot;Give me liberty or give me death.&quot;
时间： 0:14
zh-cn:当弗吉尼亚州州长帕特里克·亨利(Patrick Henry)在1775 年说出这些话时，他根本没有想到这句话会和后代的美国人产生多少共鸣。当时，这些词专门针对英国人，但过去 200 年来，这句话开始体现出许多西方人的信仰，那就是言论自由价值万千，而且，最好的政治制度与经济体制一定有自由的元素嵌入其中。谁能责怪他们呢?在过去几百年中，自由民主和私人资本主义的组合帮助了美国和西方国家迅速崛起，将经济发展到新的水平。过去几百年中，美国人的收入增加了 30 倍，有數十萬人，脱离了贫困。与此同时，美国的独创性和创新精神帮助推动了产业化同时也有助发明和创造家电一类的产品比如冰箱、 电视、小汽车，甚至你口袋中的手机。这一切都毫不令人意外，而后，即使在私人资本主义危机深重的时候奥巴马总统都说道：&quot;我们面前的问题不在于市场是正面还是负面的力量。市场创造财富，扩展自由的力量是无与伦比的。因此，人们可以理解这个在西方人脑海中根深蒂固的观念，全世界都会采取私人资本主义作为经济增长的模式，采纳自由民主，并将持续优先选择获得政治权利而非经济利益。
en:When Patrick Henry, the governor of Virginia,said these words in 1775,he could never have imaginedjust how much they would come to resonatewith American generations to come.At the time, these words were earmarkedand targeted against the British,but over the last 200 years, they&#39;ve come to embodywhat many Westerners believe,that freedom is the most cherished value,and that the best systems of politics and economicshave freedom embedded in them.Who could blame them?Over the past hundred years, the combinationof liberal democracy and private capitalismhas helped to catapult the United Statesand Western countriesto new levels of economic development.In the United States over the past hundred years,incomes have increased 30 times,and hundreds of thousands of peoplehave been moved out of poverty.Meanwhile, American ingenuity and innovationhas helped to spur industrializationand also helped in the creation and the buildingof things like household appliancessuch as refrigerators and televisions,motor vehicles and even the mobile phones in your pockets.It&#39;s no surprise, then, that even at the depthsof the private capitalism crisis,President Obama said,&quot;The question before us is not whether the marketis a force for good or ill.Its power to generate wealth and to expand freedomis unmatched.&quot;Thus, there&#39;s understandablya deep-seated presumption among Westernersthat the whole world will decide to adoptprivate capitalism as the model of economic growth,liberal democracy, and will continueto prioritize political rights over economic rights.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:但是，对很多生活在新兴市场国家的人来说，这是一种空想，即使1948年签署的《世界人权宣言》获得了一致通过，它所做的也是掩盖发达国家和发展中国家之间出现的分裂，以及政治权利和经济利益间不同意识形态的分裂。这个分裂不断扩大。今天，很多人生活在新兴国家，占世界人口的90%，他们不相信西方对政治权利的执着有那么重要，真正重要的是政府提供食物、 住所、教育和医疗保健。&quot;不自由，毋宁死&quot;确实理想，但要在能负担的前提下才成立，但如果你每天靠不到 1 美元收入过活，你只会挣扎求生存和供养家人而不会花时间到处去宣扬和捍卫民主。
en:However, to many who live in the emerging markets,this is an illusion, and even thoughthe Universal Declaration of Human Rights,which was signed in 1948,was unanimously adopted,what it did was to mask a schismthat has emerged between developedand developing countries,and the ideological beliefsbetween political and economic rights.This schism has only grown wider.Today, many people who live in the emerging markets,where 90 percent of the world&#39;s population lives,believe that the Western obsessionwith political rights is beside the point,and what is actually importantis delivering on food, shelter,education and healthcare.&quot;Give me liberty or give me death&quot;is all well and good if you can afford it,but if you&#39;re living on less than one dollar a day,you&#39;re far too busy trying to surviveand to provide for your familythan to spend your time going aroundtrying to proclaim and defend democracy.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:现在，我知道在座的很多人以及世界各地的许多人会认为，&quot;事实上，这很难让人接受，&quot;因为私人资本主义和自由民主是神圣不可侵犯的。但我现在问你，如果要你选择你会怎么做？如果你必须在有地方住和投票的权之间做出选择，你会怎么选？
en:Now, I know many people in this roomand around the world will think,&quot;Well actually, this is hard to grasp,&quot;because private capitalism and liberal democracyare held sacrosanct.But I ask you today, what would you doif you had to choose?What if you had to choosebetween a roof over your headand the right to vote?
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:过去 10 年中，我曾有幸到 60 多个国家旅行，许多是新兴国家，在拉丁美洲、 亚洲、和我家乡非洲大陆的一些国家。我见过总统、异议人士、政策制定者、 律师、 教师、医生和路人，并通过和他们的谈话，清楚了解到很多新兴国家的人们相信确有正在形成的分裂，西方人相信的政治经济意识形态和世界其他地区人们相信的不一样。
en:Over the last 10 years,I&#39;ve had the privilege to travel to over 60 countries,many of them in the emerging markets,in Latin America, Asia,and my own continent of Africa.I&#39;ve met with presidents, dissidents,policymakers, lawyers, teachers,doctors and the man on the street,and through these conversations,it&#39;s become clear to methat many people in the emerging marketsbelieve that there&#39;s actually a split occurringbetween what people believe ideologicallyin terms of politics and economics in the Westand that which people believe in the rest of the world.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:现在，不要误解我的意思。我不是说在新兴市场中的人们不懂民主，我也不是说在理想的情况下他们不愿意自由选择自己的总统或领导人。他们当然愿意。然而若考虑各种条件，他们会更关心如何改善生活水平，以及政府如何提供途径，而不是政府是否由民主选举产生。
en:Now, don&#39;t get me wrong.I&#39;m not saying people in the emerging marketsdon&#39;t understand democracy,nor am I saying that they wouldn&#39;t ideallylike to pick their presidents or their leaders.Of course they would.However, I am saying that on balance,they worry more aboutwhere their living standard improvements are going to come from,and how it is their governments can deliver for them,than whether or not the governmentwas elected by democracy.
时间： 4:29
zh-cn:事实上，这已经成为一个非常沈痛的问题因为这是在很长时间内第一次对西方政治和经济意识形态系统的真正挑战，这是以中国为代表的系统，不是私人资本主义，而是国家资本主义。他们不主张自由民主，并推后实行民主制度。他们亦决定优先考虑经济利益而不是政治权利。我今天为你们介绍的这个以中国为代表的系统，得到新兴国家人民的广泛拥护并被当成体系来遵循，因为人们越来越相信是这一体系保证在最短时间内最好最快地改进人们的生活标准。如果大家允许的话，我会花几分钟先向大家解释为什么在经济上他们有这信念。
en:The fact of the matteris that this has become a very poignant questionbecause there is for the first time in a long timea real challenge to the Western ideological systemsof politics and economics,and this is a system that is embodied by China.And rather than have private capitalism,they have state capitalism.Instead of liberal democracy,they have de-prioritized the democratic system.And they have also decided to prioritizeeconomic rights over political rights.I put it to you today that it is this systemthat is embodied by Chinathat is gathering momentum amongst peoplein the emerging markets as the system to follow,because they believe increasinglythat it is the systemthat will promise the best and fastest improvementsin living standards in the shortest period of time.If you will indulge me, I will spend a few momentsexplaining to you firstwhy economically they&#39;ve come to this belief.
时间： 5:27
zh-cn:首要因素是中国在过去三十年的经济表现。中国已经能够产生创纪录的经济增长并卓有成效地使许多人摆脱了贫困，特别在消除贫困方面打开了缺口使得超过 3 亿人脱离了贫穷。变化不仅发生在经济上，同时也发生在生活水平的变化上。我们看到，过去在中国，只有28%的人口接受中学教育。今天，这一数字接近于 82%。所以总体上经济改善的成果已经相当明显。
en:First of all, it&#39;s China&#39;s economic performanceover the past 30 years.She&#39;s been able to produce record economic growthand meaningfully move many people out of poverty,specifically putting a meaningful dent in povertyby moving over 300 million peopleout of indigence.It&#39;s not just in economics,but it&#39;s also in terms of living standards.We see that in China, 28 percent of peoplehad secondary school access.Today, it&#39;s closer to 82 percent.So in its totality, economic improvementhas been quite significant.
时间： 6:05
zh-cn:其次，中国已能在不改变政治结构的前提下卓有成效地改善收入不平等的问题。今天，美国和中国是世界上两个主要的经济体。他们有着极其不同的政治制度和经济制度，一个奉行私人资本主义另一个广泛地践行着国家资本主义。然而，这两个国家有相同的基尼系数，基尼系数反应收入平等的状况。也许令人感到更加不安的是中国的收入平等状况最近以来一直在改善，而美国的情况却一直在恶化。
en:Second, China has been ableto meaningfully improve its income inequalitywithout changing the political construct.Today, the United States and Chinaare the two leading economies in the world.They have vastly different political systemsand different economic systems,one with private capitalism,another one broadly with state capitalism.However, these two countrieshave the identical GINI Coefficient,which is a measure of income equality.Perhaps what is more disturbingis that China&#39;s income equalityhas been improving in recent times,whereas that of the United Stateshas been declining.
时间： 6:46
zh-cn:再次，新兴国家的人们惊讶于中国如神话传说般的基础设施建设。这不单指中国在自己国家建设的道路、港口、铁路——中国已经建造了 85,000 公里长的国内公路网并超越了美国建造的总长度但就算看看像非洲这样的地方，中国已经帮助非洲铺设了从开普敦到开罗那么长距离的沥青路，长度是 9000 英里，或者说是从纽约到加利福尼亚州距离的三倍。这是人们看得到摸得着的事物。也许这并不令人意外在 2007 年的皮尤调查中，来自10 个非洲国家的受访者说：他们认为，中国建设者们做了一些令人称奇的事来提高非洲人的生活水平提升幅度之大，达到 98%之高。
en:Thirdly, people in the emerging marketslook at China&#39;s amazing and legendaryinfrastructure rollout.This is not just about Chinabuilding roads and ports and railwaysin her own country —she&#39;s been able to build 85,000 kilometersof road network in Chinaand surpass that of the United States —but even if you look to places like Africa,China has been able to help tar the distanceof Cape Town to Cairo,which is 9,000 miles,or three times the distance of New York to California.Now this is something that people can see and point to.Perhaps it&#39;s no surprisethat in a 2007 Pew survey, when surveyed,Africans in 10 countries saidthey thought that the Chinese were doingamazing things to improve their livelihoodsby wide margins, by as much as 98 percent.
时间： 7:39
zh-cn:最后，中国还提供创新方案来解决世界面临的根深蒂固的社会问题。如果你到摩加迪沙(索马里首都)、 墨西哥城或孟买旅行你会发现那些破旧不堪的基础设施和物流仍是发展偏远地区卫生保健的一个绊脚石。然而，通过国营企业通力合作并藉国籍企业之便，中国已经能够走进这些农村地区，协助解决当地的医药卫生问题。
en:Finally, China is also providing innovative solutionsto age-old social problems that the world faces.If you travel to Mogadishu, Mexico City or Mumbai,you find that dilapidated infrastructure and logisticscontinue to be a stumbling blockto the delivery of medicine and healthcarein the rural areas.However, through a network of state-owned enterprises,the Chinese have been able to go into these rural areas,using their companiesto help deliver on these healthcare solutions.
时间： 8:10
zh-cn:女士们先生们，这并不令人意外在全世界各地，人们都在谈论中国的所作所为，&quot;我喜欢那样的。我想要那样的。我想做中国做的事情。中国的体制看来是行得通的&quot;。说到这，我还要告诉你们，随着中国目前的发展，对民主的观点也产生了许多变化。尤其是，在新兴市场国家有越来越多人的怀疑，这是因为目前，民主制度不再被视为经济发展的先决条件。事实上，不只是中国，像台湾、 新加坡、 智利等实际上都证实了这点，经济增长，是民主的一个先决条件。在最近的研究中，有迹象显示收入是决定民主持续时间的最大因素。研究发现，如果一国的人均收入是大约 1000 美元一年，其民主政体将持续约八年半。如果一国人均收入在每年2000 至 4000 美元可能会有33 年的民主。只有人均收入达到每年 6000 美元以上民主才会持续。
en:Ladies and gentlemen, it&#39;s no surprisethat around the world, people are pointingat what China is doing and saying,&quot;I like that. I want that.I want to be able to do what China&#39;s doing.That is the system that seems to work.&quot;I&#39;m here to also tell youthat there are lots of shifts occurringaround what China is doingin the democratic stance.In particular, there is growing doubtamong people in the emerging markets,when people now believe that democracyis no longer to be viewedas a prerequisite for economic growth.In fact, countries like Taiwan, Singapore, Chile,not just China, have shown that actually,it&#39;s economic growth that is a prerequisitefor democracy.In a recent study, the evidence has shownthat income is the greatest determinantof how long a democracy can last.The study found that if your per capita incomeis about 1,000 dollars a year,your democracy will last about eight and a half years.If your per capita income is between2,000 and 4,000 dollars per year,then you&#39;re likely to only get 33 years of democracy.And only if your per capita incomeis above 6,000 dollars a yearwill you have democracy come hell or high water.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:这告诉我们首先需要建立一个能问责政府的中产阶级。但也许这还告诉我们我们应该为在世界各地将民主强加于人感到不安因为最终我们要承担的风险就是狭隘的民主，某种程度来说，这样的民主，可能比设法终结的独裁政府还要糟糕!
en:What this is telling usis that we need to first establish a middle classthat is able to hold the government accountable.But perhaps it&#39;s also telling usthat we should be worried about goingaround the world and shoehorning democracy,because ultimately we run the riskof ending up with illiberal democracies,democracies that in some sensecould be worse than the authoritarian governmentsthat they seek to replace.
时间： 9:51
zh-cn:狭隘民主的证据是十分让人沮丧的。自由之家（Freedom House）认为，虽然今天世界上 50%的国家是民主国家，但这些国家中的 70%是狭隘的就人民没有言论或行动自由而言。但同时，我们从自由之家去年出版的一项研究中发现过去七年的每一年里自由的发展都在恶化。
en:The evidence around illiberal democraciesis quite depressing.Freedom House finds that although 50 percentof the world&#39;s countries today are democratic,70 percent of those countries are illiberalin the sense that people don&#39;t have free speechor freedom of movement.But also, we&#39;re finding from Freedom Housein a study that they published last yearthat freedom has been on the declineevery year for the past seven years.
时间：10:18
zh-cn:这表示：对于像我这样的人在乎自由民主的人，需要找到更多可持续的方式确保有一个可持续的实现民主的方式，并且拥有深厚的经济基础。但同时，当中国就要成为世界最大经济体时，专家预计2016 年这便会成真，在西方和世界其他地区之间的政治和经济意识形态的分裂很可能会扩大。
en:What this saysis that for people like mewho care about liberal democracy,is we&#39;ve got to find a more sustainable wayof ensuring that we have a sustainable formof democracy in a liberal way,and that has its roots in economics.But it also says that as China movestoward being the largest economy in the world,something that is expected to happenby experts in 2016,that this schism between the politicaland economic ideologies of the West and the restis likely to widen.
时间：10:51
zh-cn:这个世界可能变成什么样？嗯，世界可能会有更多的国家干预和国家资本主义；及民族国家更强烈的保护主义；但我刚才也提过的，不断减少的政治权利和个人权利。
en:What might that world look like?Well, the world could look likemore state involvement and state capitalism;greater protectionisms of nation-states;but also, as I just pointed out a moment ago,ever-declining political rightsand individual rights.
时间：11:08
zh-cn:因此我们共同的问题是，在这之后，西方应该怎样做？我认为，西方有两个选项。他们可以或竞争或合作。如果西方选择与中国模式竞争，实质上就是要在全世界继续尝试和推行私人资本主义和自由民主，这基本上都是在逆风而行，但这对西方来说也是理所当然的立场因为在很多方面西方模式与中国模式的暂缓民主和国家资本主义是对立的。事实是，如果西方决定要竞争，将产生更大的分裂。西方的另一个选项是进行合作，我的意思是通过合作，给予新兴市场国家一些弹性空间，让他们顺其自然地找出什么样的政治和经济制度对他们来说才是最佳的。
en:The question that is left for us in generalis, what then should the West be doing?And I suggest that they have two options.The West can either compete or cooperate.If the West chooses to compete with the Chinese model,and in effect go around the worldand continue to try and push an agendaof private capitalism and liberal democracy,this is basically going against headwinds,but it also would be a natural stancefor the West to takebecause in many ways it is the antithesisof the Chinese modelof de-prioritizing democracy, and state capitalism.Now the fact of the matter is,if the West decides to compete,it will create a wider schism.The other option is for the West to cooperate,and by cooperating I meangiving the emerging market countries the flexibilityto figure out in an organic waywhat political and economic systemworks best for them.
时间：12:07
zh-cn:我确信在座的有一些人正在想，咳，这不就是对中国让步，换句话说，这种方式就是让西方处于次要地位。但我告诉你们如果美国和欧洲国家想要在全球保持影响力他们可能会为了竞争，短期内不得不考虑合作以此类推，他们可能不得不更积极地关注经济成果来帮助创建中产阶层让政府负起责任并创建我们真正想要的民主政体。
en:Now I&#39;m sure some of you in the roomwill be thinking, well, this is like ceding to China,and this is a way, in other words,for the West to take a back seat.But I put it to youthat if the United States and European countrieswant to remain globally influential,they may have to consider cooperatingin the short term in order to compete,and by that, they might have to focusmore aggressively on economic outcomesto help create the middle classand therefore be able to hold government accountableand create the democracies that we really want.
时间：12:40
zh-cn:事实就是，与其在国际上鼓吹与中国交流，西方应该鼓励自己的企业在这些地区进行贸易和投资，与其批评中国的不良行为。西方应该展示为何他们自己的政治和经济制度是有优势的。与其在世界各地强行推进民主，或许西方应从借镜自己的历史经验并且铭记：你们今天拥有的模式与体系得以发展 至此也是慢慢累积的。的确，最高法院法官斯蒂芬 · 布雷耶(Stephen Breyer.)提醒我们从制定宪法直到达到权利平等花费了170年。如今有些人会争论说权利不平等仍然存在的。事实上，仍然有群体会争辩他们在现有的法律之下没有得到平等权利。
en:The fact of the matter is thatinstead of going around the worldand haranguing countries for engaging with China,the West should be encouraging its own businessesto trade and invest in these regions.Instead of criticizing China for bad behavior,the West should be showing how it isthat their own system of politics and economicsis the superior one.And instead of shoehorning democracyaround the world,perhaps the West should take a leafout of its own history bookand remember that it takes a lot of patiencein order to develop the modelsand the systems that you have today.Indeed, the Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyerreminds us that it took the United Statesnearly 170 yearsfrom the time that the Constitution was writtenfor there to be equal rights in the United States.Some people would argue that todaythere is still no equal rights.In fact, there are groups who would arguethat they still do not have equal rights under the law.
时间：13:43
zh-cn:西方模式最棒的地方是，直截了当地证明了。它是让下一餐有着落的模式。让人有冰箱。还把人送上了月球。但事实是，虽然人们过去经常指着西方国家并且说：&quot;我想要那样的，我喜欢那样的，&quot;但现在出现了一个新人，也就是中国。今天，几代人正看着中国并说：&quot;中国可以建设基础设施，中国可以创造经济增长，我们喜欢那样的。
en:At its very best,the Western model speaks for itself.It&#39;s the model that put food on the table.It&#39;s the refrigerators.It put a man on the moon.But the fact of the matter is,although people back in the dayused to point at the Western countries and say,&quot;I want that, I like that,&quot;there&#39;s now a new person in townin the form of a country, China.Today, generations are looking at Chinaand saying, &quot;China can produce infrastructure,China can produce economic growth,and we like that.&quot;
时间：14:13
zh-cn:因为，最终摆在我们面前的问题和地球上 70 亿人面前的问题都是：我们如何创造繁荣？在乎这点的人会理性地以中国的政经模式为基础倾向于那些可以确保他们能够在最短时间内拥有更高生活水准的模式。
en:Because ultimately, the question before us,and the question beforeseven billion people on the planetis, how can we create prosperity?People who care and will pivot towards the modelof politics and economicsin a very rational way,to those models that will ensurethat they can have better living standardsin the shortest period of time.
时间：14:36
zh-cn:在你们今天要离开的时候，我想要留给你们一点个人的见解，也就是我相信我们应当作为独立的个人来做事，也就是要变得思想开明，对于我们想要为全世界的人们创造繁荣，并且有意义地为数以亿计的人们削弱贫困的希望与梦想。都要从开放的态度做起，因为不同的体系有优点也有缺点。
en:As you leave here today,I would like to leave youwith a very personal message,which is what it is that I believewe should be doing as individuals,and this is really about being open-minded,open-minded to the fact that our hopes and dreamsof creating prosperity for people around the world,creating and meaningfully putting a dent in povertyfor hundreds of millions of people,has to be based in being open-minded,because these systems have good thingsand they have bad things.
时间：15:07
zh-cn:为了說明这一点，我调查了关于我自己的记录。这是我的照片。
en:Just to illustrate,I went into my annals of myself.That&#39;s a picture of me.
时间：15:13
zh-cn:噢。（笑声）
en:Awww. (Laughter)
时间：15:15
zh-cn:我在1969年出生于赞比亚。在我诞生时，黑人得不到出生证明，那条法律在1973年才改变。这是赞比亚政府的誓章。我展示这些，是为了告诉你们这四十年来，我从不被承认到今天站在TED观众前为你们讲述我的观点的经历。从这一点上讲，我们可以促进经济增长。我们可以卓有成效地削弱贫困。不仅如此，这也将要求我们正视我们的观念，我们从小到大关于民主与私人资本主义，关于什么才能促进经济增长并且减少贫困、创造自由的观念与教条。我们也许不得不撕掉那些书本来开始正视其它选项并且积极地探求真实。最终，我们要改变世界并使它成为一个更好的地方。
en:I was born and raised in Zambia in 1969.At the time of my birth,blacks were not issued birth certificates,and that law only changed in 1973.This is an affidavit from the Zambian government.I bring this to you to tell you that in 40 years,I&#39;ve gone from not being recognized as a human beingto standing in front of the illustrious TED crowd todayto talk to you about my views.In this vein, we can increase economic growth.We can meaningfully put a dent in poverty.But also, it&#39;s going to requirethat we look at our assumptions,assumptions and strictures that we&#39;ve grown up witharound democracy, around private capitalism,around what creates economic growthand reduces poverty and creates freedoms.We might have to tear those books upand start to look at other optionsand be open-minded to seek the truth.Ultimately, it&#39;s about transforming the worldand making it a better place.
时间：16:11
zh-cn:非常感谢你们。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：16:13
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
