时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我现在从事我所喜爱的市场营销工作，但是我的第一爱好曾经是物理学，这种热情是一个很棒的教师带给我的那时我有一点点灰色头发。所以他教给我物理学是很酷的因为它可以教给我们很多很多关于我们周围世界的事情。接下来我要花上几分钟的时间要你们相信物理学可以教给我们一些关于市场营销的知识。
en:So I work in marketing, which I love,but my first passion was physics,a passion brought to me by a wonderful school teacher,when I had a little less gray hair.So he taught methat physics is coolbecause it teaches us so much about the world around us.And I&#39;m going to spend the next few minutes trying to convince youthat physics can teach us something about marketing.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:那么很快的举一下手—有谁在大学里学习过市场营销？有谁在大学里学习过物理学？哦，很好。有谁在高中学过？好，很多人。所以，希望这会让我们重获一些快乐，或者可能是一些有点不安的回忆。
en:So quick show of hands —who studied some marketing in university?Who studied some physics in university?Pretty good. And at school?Okay, lots of you.So, hopefully this will bring back some happy,or possibly some slightly disturbing memories.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:所以，关于物理学和市场营销：我们要从一些简单的开始，牛顿第二定律：“合外力等于质量乘以加速度。”这是一些或许是土耳其航空公司本应稍微多仔细学习的东西然后，他们再进行竞选。（笑声）但是如果我们重新快速的排列这个公式，我们可以得到加速度等于合外力除以质量，这就是说对于一个较大的颗粒，质量越大，它就越需要更多的外力来改变运动方向。品牌也是一样。品牌的规模越大，包袱越大，这就需要更多的力量来改变它的定位。这就是为什么阿瑟.安德森选择开创埃森哲（一家跨国公司）而不是试图说服世界安德森可以代表除了会计学以外的其他事物的原因之一。这解释了为什么胡佛发现很难让世界相信他的公司不仅仅生产真空吸尘器，也解释了为什么像联合利华和宝洁这样的公司一直将品牌分割开来，例如奥利奥、普林格和德芙而不是有一个很大的母品牌。所以物理学就是，一个物体的质量越大就需要越多的力量来改变它的运动方向。市场营销是，品牌越大，越难将它重新定位。所以思考一系列的品牌或者可能是为新的投机活动设计的新的品脾。
en:So, physics and marketing.We&#39;ll start with something very simple — Newton&#39;s Law:&quot;The force equals mass times acceleration.&quot;This is something that perhaps Turkish Airlinesshould have studied a bit more carefullybefore they ran this campaign.(Laughter)But if we rearrange this formula quickly,we can get to acceleration equals force over mass,which meansthat for a larger particle — a larger mass —it requires more force to change its direction.It&#39;s the same with brands:the more massive a brand, the more baggage it has,the more force is needed to change its positioning.And that&#39;s one of the reasons whyArthur Andersen chose to launch Accenturerather than try to persuade the worldthat Andersen&#39;s could stand for somethingother than accountancy.It explains why Hooverfound it very difficult to persuade the worldthat it was more than vacuum cleaners,and why companies like Unilever and P&amp;Gkeep brands separate,like Ariel and Pringles and Doverather than having one giant parent brand.So the physics is that the bigger the mass of an objectthe more force is neededto change its direction.The marketing is, the bigger a brand,the more difficult it is to reposition it.So think about a portfolio of brandsor maybe new brands for new ventures.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:现在，谁记得海森堡的不确定原理？现在说一些有点技术性的东西。那么是这样的就定义本身而言，是不可能准确测量一个粒子的状态，比如，位置，以及它的动量，因为按照定义，测量这个动作就在改变这个粒子。所以为了解释它—如果有一个基本粒子，你将一束光照向它，那么这束光的光子就有动量，就会敲击这个粒子，所以你不知道在你看到它之前它在什么位置。通过测量粒子，测量的行为改变了它。观察的行为改变了它。市场营销也是一样。使用通过观察消费者，改变他们行为的做法。想一下有一群母亲她们在一个焦点小组中谈论她们出色的孩子，而且几乎没有人购买大量的垃圾食品。迄今为止，麦当劳每年卖出成千上万的汉堡包。想一下那些在超级市场附属商店的人们他们将他们的购物车放满新鲜的绿色蔬菜和水果，但是没有像其他时候那样购物。如果你想一想这些在调查中声称经常在网上寻找色情电影的人，人数其实不多。迄今为止，我们知道谷歌是搜索类网页的第一名。所以很幸运的是，科学—不，不好意思，市场营销变得越来越容易了。幸运的是，现在拥有更好的销售网点追踪，以及更多的数字媒体的消费，你可以更好地估量消费者实际在干什么，而不是他们说他们在干什么。所以物理学是你永远不可能准确的、确切的测量一个粒子，因为观查会改变它。市场营销是，市场营销所带来的信息是，试图估量出消费者确实在做什么，而不是他们说他们要做什么或者预期他们要做的事情。
en:Now, who remembers Heisenberg&#39;s uncertainty principle?Getting a little more technical now.So this says thatit&#39;s impossible, by definition,to measure exactly the state — i.e., the position —and the momentum of a particle,because the act of measuring it, by definition, changes it.So to explain that — if you&#39;ve got an elementary particleand you shine a light on it,then the photon of light has momentum,which knocks the particle,so you don&#39;t know where it was before you looked at it.By measuring it,the act of measurement changes it.The act of observation changes it.It&#39;s the same in marketing.So with the act of observing consumers, changes their behavior.Think about the group of momswho are talking about their wonderful children in a focus group,and almost none of them buy lots of junk food.And yet, McDonald&#39;s sells hundreds of millions of burgers every year.Think about the people who are on accompanied shops in supermarkets,who stuff their trolleysfull of fresh green vegetables and fruit,but don&#39;t shop like that any other day.And if you think about the number of peoplewho claim in surveysto regularly look for porn on the Web,it&#39;s very few.Yet, at Google, we know it&#39;s the number-one searched for category.So luckily, the science —no, sorry — the marketing is getting easier.Luckily, with now better point-of-sale tracking,more digital media consumption,you can measure more what consumers actually do,rather than what they say they do.So the physics isyou can never accurately and exactlymeasure a particle,because the observation changes it.The marketing is — the message for marketing is —that try to measure what consumers actually do,rather than what they say they&#39;ll door anticipate they&#39;ll do.
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:所以接下来，所有科学的方法，也就是物理学的一个原理—认为你不能通过观察证明一个假设。你只能反驳这个假设。这就是说，你可以收集越来越多关于一个假说或者一个假设的资料和数据，这会巩固这个假说，但是它不会最终证明它。只要有一个相反的数据点就可以使你的理论灰飞烟灭。所以如果我们举个例子—托勒密有很多数据点可以支持他的理论行星可以绕着地球旋转。哥白尼只需要一个强有力的观察就能推翻这个观点。这和市场营销有些许相似之处。你可以在一个品牌上投资很长一段时间，但是对这个定位的一个相反的观察结果就会摧毁消费者的信念。举个英国石油公司（BP）的例子。他们很多年来花费数百万英镑证明自己是一个对环境无害的品牌，然后就出了一点小事故。想一下丰田。很久以前，这是个被人尊崇为最可信赖的汽车，然后他们就出现了一个很大的召回事件。泰格.伍兹，曾在很长一段时间里，被认为是最完美的品牌代表。恩。你知道他的故事的。笑声所以物理学是你不能证明一个假说，但是很容易就可以推翻它。任何的假说都是不可靠的。市场营销是无论你在你的品牌上投资了多少，倒霉的一周可以削弱几十年的好成果。所以要非常仔细的尽量避免一团糟的局面它能削弱你的品牌效应。
en:So next, the scientific method —an axiom of physics, of all science —says you cannot prove a hypothesis through observation,you can only disprove it.What this means is you can gather more and more dataaround a hypothesis or a positioning,and it will strengthen it, but it will not conclusively prove it.And only one contrary data pointcan blow your theory out of the water.So if we take an example —Ptolemy had dozens of data points to support his theorythat the planets would rotate around the Earth.It only took one robust observation from Copernicusto blow that idea out of the water.And there are parallels for marketing —you can invest for a long time in a brand,but a single contrary observation of that positioningwill destroy consumers&#39; belief.Take BP —they spent millions of pounds over many yearsbuilding up its credentials as an environmentally friendly brand,but then one little accident.Think about Toyota.It was, for a long time, reveredas the most reliable of cars,and then they had the big recall incident.And Tiger Woods, for a long time,the perfect brand ambassador.Well, you know the story.(Laughter)So the physics isthat you cannot prove a hypothesis,but it&#39;s easy to disprove it —any hypothesis is shaky.And the marketing isthat not matter how much you&#39;ve invested in your brand,one bad week can undermine decades of good work.So be really careful to try and avoid the screw-upsthat can undermine your brand.
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:最后，说一下熵（物理热学名词）的较为模糊的世界，热力学的第二定律。定律认为熵，是一个衡量系统紊乱的方法，这个量会一直增加。市场营销也是一样。如果我们退回20年，一个市场营销经理可以基本控制的一个消息就可以基本上定义一个品牌。但是今天我们所处的位置，事情已经改变了。你可以得到一个强有力的品牌形象或者一个信息然后将它展出，就像保守党今年早些时候所做的选举海报一样。但是那时你就失去了对它的控制。因为即使现在每个消费者都可以享用数字评论设计和分销工具，你根本不可能控制局势的走向。你的品牌效应开始被减弱。笑声局势变得越来越混乱。笑声情况已经失控。笑声我确实看到过他讲话。他干的不错。但是对商人来说，他们有些不安，但这的确是件好事情。品牌能量的分散使你的品牌更贴近大众，更加受大众的欢迎。能量的分配是一个民主的力量，最终它会对你的品牌有好处的。所以，从物理学当中吸取的经验是熵这个量会一直增强；这是一个基本的定律。从市场营销里得到的讯息是，你的品牌已经越来越弱。你不能与之相抗衡，那么就接受这个事实然后找到可以解决的方法。
en:And lastly, to the slightly obscure world of entropy —the second law of thermodynamics.This says that entropy,which is a measure of the disorder of a system,will always increase.The same is true of marketing.If we go back 20 years,the one message pretty much controlled by one marketing managercould pretty much define a brand.But where we are today, things have changed.You can get a strong brand imageor a messageand put it out there like the Conservative Party didearlier this year with their election poster.But then you lose control of it.With the kind of digital comment creation and distribution toolsthat are available now to every consumer,it&#39;s impossible to control where it goes.Your brand starts being dispersed,(Laughter)it gets more chaotic.(Laughter)It&#39;s out of your control.(Laughter)I actually saw him speak — he did a good job.But while this may be unsettling for marketers,it&#39;s actually a good thing.This distribution of brand energygets your brand closer to the people,more in with the people.It makes this distribution of energy a democratizing force,which is ultimately good for your brand.So, the lesson from physics isthat entropy will always increase; it&#39;s a fundamental law.The message for marketing is that your brand is more dispersed.You can&#39;t fight it, so embrace itand find a way to work with it.
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:那么临近尾声，我的老师，瓦特先生，告诉我物理学很酷希望，我已经让大家相信物理学可以教给我们所有的人，即使是市场营销，一些有用的东西。谢谢。
en:So to close,my teacher, Mr. Vutter, told methat physics is cool,and hopefully, I&#39;ve convinced youthat physics can teach all of us, even in the world of marketing, something special.Thank you.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
