时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在生活中的很多方面保持客观是有益的。问题是，我们常常会带着有色眼镜去看待身边的各种事物。简单来说，以啤酒为例。如果我让你品尝一些啤酒，并让你根据烈度和苦味值打分，不同的啤酒会得不同的分数。如果我们想客观一些，怎么办？对于啤酒来说，这很简单。我们可以做盲品测试。我们做同样的测试，让人品尝同样的啤酒，但盲品测试的结果会稍有不同。大多数啤酒的得分会很相近。你基本分辨不出它们的差别。当然，健力士啤酒是个例外。（笑声）
en:It would be nice to beobjective in life,in many ways.The problem is that we havethese color-tinted glassesas we look at all kinds of situations.For example, think aboutsomething as simple as beer.If I gave you a few beers to tasteand I asked you to rate themon intensity and bitterness,different beers would occupydifferent space.But what if we triedto be objective about it?In the case of beer,it would be very simple.What if we did a blind taste?Well, if we did the same thing,you tasted the same beer,now in the blind taste,things would look slightly different.Most of the beers will go into one place.You will basically notbe able to distinguish them,and the exception, of course,will be Guinness.(Laughter)
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:同样的，生理体验也是一样。人们对生理体验有一定预期的时候会如何呢？比如我们卖给人们一些止痛药。对一些人，我们说药很贵。对另一些人，我们说药很便宜。结果是：贵的止痛药似乎更有效果，更能减轻人们的痛苦。这是因为预期会改变生理体验。当然，我们都知道，看比赛时，如果你是其中一支球队的粉丝，你就只会从那支球队的视角来看待这场比赛。
en:Similarly, we can think about physiology.What happens when people expectsomething from their physiology?For example, we sold peoplepain medications.Some people, we told themthe medications were expensive.Some people, we told them it was cheap.And the expensivepain medication worked better.It relieved more pain from people,because expectationsdo change our physiology.And of course, we all know that in sports,if you are a fan of a particular team,you can&#39;t help but see the gamedevelop from the perspective of your team.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:在所有这些案例中，我们的成见和预期都会影响自己对世界的观察。但在重要问题上也是这样吗？比如关于社会正义的问题。我们想知道，在贫富差距问题上进行“盲品测试”会有什么结果？所以，我们开始考虑贫富差距，我们在美国和其他国家做了一些大规模的调查。我们问了两个问题：人们了解目前的贫富差距吗？人们理想的贫富差距又是怎样的？我们首先看第一个问题。想象一下，这是美国全部的人口，最穷的人排在最右边，最富的人排在最左边。然后，我把他们分成五组：每20%一组，最穷的20%人口，以此类推到最富的20%人口。然后，我问道：你认为每组人口各占有多少财富。再简单点儿，请告诉我，你认为最穷的两组，也就是最底层的40%人口占有多少财富？想一想，想一个具体的数字。通常我们都不去想。现在想一下，要有一个确实的数字。想好了吗？
en:So all of those are cases in whichour preconceived notionsand our expectations color our world.But what happenedin more important questions?What happened with questionsthat had to do with social justice?So we wanted to think aboutwhat is the blind tasting versionfor thinking about inequality?So we started looking at inequality,and we did some large-scale surveysaround the U.S. and other countries.So we asked two questions:Do people know what kind oflevel of inequality we have?And then, what level of inequalitydo we want to have?So let&#39;s think about the first question.Imagine I took all the people in the U.S.and I sorted them fromthe poorest on the rightto the richest on the left,and then I divided them into five buckets:the poorest 20 percent,the next 20 percent,the next, the next,and the richest 20 percent.And then I asked you to tell mehow much wealth do you thinkis concentrated in each of those buckets.So to make it simpler,imagine I ask you to tell me,how much wealth do you thinkis concentratedin the bottom two buckets,the bottom 40 percent?Take a second. Think about itand have a number.Usually we don&#39;t think.Think for a second,have a real number in your mind.You have it?
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:好，这是很多美国人的答案。他们认为，最底层的20%人口拥有2.9%的财富，稍富的一组拥有6.4%，所以两者之和略大于9%。下一组，他们说，拥有12%，然后是20%，人们认为，最富的20%人口拥有58%的财富。大家可以比较一下自己的想法。
en:Okay, here&#39;s what lotsof Americans tell us.They think that the bottom 20 percenthas about 2.9 percent of the wealth,the next group has 6.4,so together it&#39;s slightly more than nine.The next group, they say, has 12 percent,20 percent,and the richest 20 percent, people thinkhas 58 percent of the wealth.You can see how this relatesto what you thought.
时间： 3:17
zh-cn:那么，实际数据是怎样呢？实际数据略有不同。底层的20%人口拥有0.1%的财富。第二组20%拥有0.2%。合起来是0.3%。再下一组拥有3.9%，11.3%，最富的一组拥有84%-85%的财富。所以，我们的想法跟现实其实非常不一样。
en:Now, what&#39;s reality?Reality is slightly different.The bottom 20 percenthas 0.1 percent of the wealth.The next 20 percenthas 0.2 percent of the wealth.Together, it&#39;s 0.3.The next group has 3.9,11.3,and the richest grouphas 84-85 percent of the wealth.So what we actually haveand what we think we haveare very different.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:那么，我们理想的贫富差距是多少？怎么来计算这个？为了得到答案，了解我们真正想要什么，我们要了解一下哲学家约翰·罗尔斯。你们可能记得，约翰·罗尔斯有一个关于公平社会的理念。他说，公平社会是这样一个社会：当你了解了这个社会的一切，你仍然愿意成为任何社会阶层中一份子。这个定义很精彩，因为如果你是富人，你会希望富人更富，穷人更穷。如果你是穷人，你会希望缩小贫富差距。但是，如果你进入社会，但不知道自己会处于哪个阶层，你不得不考虑所有的方面。这有点像盲品测试，选择的时候，连自己也不知道结果，罗尔斯把这叫做“无知之幕”。
en:What about what we want?How do we even figure this out?So to look at this,to look at what we really want,we thought aboutthe philosopher John Rawls.If you remember John Rawls,he had this notionof what&#39;s a just society.He said a just societyis a society that ifyou knew everything about it,you would be willingto enter it in a random place.And it&#39;s a beautiful definition,because if you&#39;re wealthy,you might want the wealthyto have more money, the poor to have less.If you&#39;re poor, you mightwant more equality.But if you&#39;re goingto go into that societyin every possible situation,and you don&#39;t know,you have to consider all the aspects.It&#39;s a little bit like blind tastingin which you don&#39;t knowwhat the outcome will bewhen you make a decision,and Rawls called thisthe &quot;veil of ignorance.&quot;
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:所以，我们找来另一组美国人，基于“无知之幕”，我们问他们：如果你可能进入社会的任一阶层，你希望你的国家有哪些特质？这是我们得到的结果。第一组，即底层的20%人口，人们想给这一组分配多少财富呢？人们愿意给这一组10%的财富。下一组是14%的财富，接着是21%，22%，最后是32%。
en:So, we took another group,a large group of Americans,and we asked them the questionin the veil of ignorance.What are the characteristics of a countrythat would make you want to join it,knowing that you could endrandomly at any place?And here is what we got.What did people want to giveto the first group,the bottom 20 percent?They wanted to give themabout 10 percent of the wealth.The next group, 14 percent of the wealth,21, 22 and 32.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:注意：我们的样本里，没人想要绝对的平等。我们的研究中，没人认为社会主义是一个好主意。这意味着什么？这意味着，在现实和认知之间存在差距，而我们的理想和认知之间，也同样存在着差距。
en:Now, nobody in our samplewanted full equality.Nobody thought that socialismis a fantastic idea in our sample.But what does it mean?It means that we have this knowledge gapbetween what we haveand what we think we have,but we have at least as big a gapbetween what we think is rightto what we think we have.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:另外，这些问题不仅限于财富的角度，我们也能从其他角度来做测验。比如，我们针对世界不同地方的人做了这个测验。我们问了自由主义者和保守主义者，他们给了我们大致相同的答案。我们问了富人和穷人，也是相同的答案，男人和女人，全国公共广播电台(NPR)的听众和《福布斯》的读者。我们问了英格兰人，澳大利亚人，美国人……答案基本相同。我们甚至问了大学里不同学院的人。我们去哈佛，问了几乎每个学院的学生，事实上，哈佛商学院的学生中，一些人希望富人更富或者更穷，相似度是惊人的。我知道，这儿有些人上过哈佛商学院。
en:Now, we can ask these questions,by the way, not just about wealth.We can ask it about other things as well.So for example, we asked peoplefrom different parts of the worldabout this question,people who are liberals and conservatives,and they gave us basically the same answer.We asked rich and poor,they gave us the same answer,men and women,NPR listeners and Forbes readers.We asked people in England,Australia, the U.S. —very similar answers.We even asked differentdepartments of a university.We went to Harvard and we checkedalmost every department,and in fact, from Harvard Business School,where a few people wanted the wealthyto have more and the [poor] to have less,the similarity was astonishing.I know some of you wentto Harvard Business School.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:我们也测验了其他话题。比如，CEO跟非技术人员的收入比率。这是人们认为的比率，然后我们问，理想比率应该是多少。我们也可以问，现实比率是多少。现实是多少？你也许会说，还算合理啊，橘色跟黄色没差那么多。不过，这是因为我用了不同的比例尺。这下很难看到中间的黄色和蓝色了吧。
en:We also asked this questionabout something else.We asked, what about the ratioof CEO pay to unskilled workers?So you can see whatpeople think is the ratio,and then we can ask the question,what do they think should be the ratio?And then we can ask, what is reality?What is reality? And you could say,well, it&#39;s not that bad, right?The red and the yelloware not that different.But the fact is, it&#39;s becauseI didn&#39;t draw them on the same scale.It&#39;s hard to see, there&#39;s yellowand blue in there.
时间： 6:41
zh-cn:那么财富衍生品方面，测试结果又如何呢？财富不只是金钱意义上的财富，我们也问了关于：健康，处方药物治疗的供给，平均寿命，婴儿的预期寿命。我们想要怎样的数据分布呢？还有年轻人的教育，以及成年人的教育。通过测试这些方面，我们发现人们不喜欢贫富差距，但更不喜欢、甚至厌恶其他方面的不平等，而这些恰恰是贫富差距的结果：比如，健康或教育的不平等。我们也发现，当谈论到能动性较低的人群的时候——比如孩子或者婴儿——人们更愿意改变这种不平等，因为我们认为，这类人群无法对自己的情况负责。
en:So what about other outcomes of wealth?Wealth is not just about wealth.We asked, what about things like health?What about availabilityof prescription medication?What about life expectancy?What about life expectancy of infants?How do we want this to be distributed?What about education for young people?And for older people?And across all of those things,what we learned was that peopledon&#39;t like inequality of wealth,but there&#39;s other things where inequality,which is an outcome of wealth,is even more aversive to them:for example, inequalityin health or education.We also learned that peopleare particularly opento changes in equalitywhen it comes to peoplewho have less agency —basically, young kids and babies,because we don&#39;t think of themas responsible for their situation.
时间： 7:33
zh-cn:那么，我们可以从中学到什么呢？我们有两种差距：现实跟认知的差距，以及认知跟理想的差距。先考虑现实跟认知的差距，我们要怎样去教育人们？怎样让人们更好地认识贫富差距，以及贫富差距所带来的后果？譬如健康、教育、嫉妒、犯罪率等等。
en:So what are some lessons from this?We have two gaps:We have a knowledge gapand we have a desirability gapAnd the knowledge gapis something that we think about,how do we educate people?How do we get people to thinkdifferently about inequalityand the consequences of inequalityin terms of health, education,jealousy, crime rate, and so on?
时间： 7:51
zh-cn:然后是认知跟理想的差距。我们怎样让人们更好地认识他们到底想要什么？罗尔斯的定义，他观察世界的方式，这种盲品测试，屏蔽了自私的动机。我们怎样能在更大程度、更广的范围内来应用这个思路？
en:Then we have the desirability gap.How do we get people to think differentlyabout what we really want?You see, the Rawls definition,the Rawls way of looking at the world,the blind tasting approach,takes our selfish motivationout of the picture.How do we implement thatto a higher degreeon a more extensive scale?
时间： 8:10
zh-cn:最后，我们还有理想跟行动的差距。我们怎样才能把这些转化成行动？我认为，首先我们可以多想想缺乏能动性的人，比如孩子或婴儿，因为人们更愿意考虑这些人。
en:And finally, we also have an action gap.How do we take these thingsand actually do something about it?I think part of the answeris to think about peoplelike young kids and babiesthat don&#39;t have much agency,because people seem to bemore willing to do this.
时间： 8:26
zh-cn:总之，下一次你喝啤酒、葡萄酒，可以先想一想，你的体验有哪些是真实的，又有哪些是来自预期的安慰剂效应？也要好好想想，这对我们个人生活中的其他决策，对影响我们所有人的政策方面的问题能有什么启迪。
en:To summarize, I would say,next time you go to drink beer or wine,first of all, think about, what is itin your experience that is real,and what is it in your experiencethat is a placebo effectcoming from expectations?And then think about what it also meansfor other decisions in your life,and hopefully also for policy questionsthat affect all of us.
时间： 8:47
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thanks a lot.
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
