时间： 0:12
zh-cn:今日我想要稍微谈论那些预知的非理性我对非理性的行为态度产生兴趣从很多年以前开始，在一个医院里当时我严重烧伤如果你在医院里待了很长时间你将会看见许多不同类型的荒谬在医院的烧烫伤部门让我最难以接受的荒谬发生在护士为我拆除绷带的时候每个人应该都有使用创可贴的经验你也应该想过怎样撕掉才是最好的你是瞬间撕开 － 时间短但很痛还是慢慢地把它撕掉虽然时间长，但感觉不这么痛哪一种才是比较好的方式？
en:I want to talk to you today a little bitabout predictable irrationality.And my interest in irrational behaviorstarted many years ago in the hospital.I was burned very badly.And if you spend a lot of time in hospital,you&#39;ll see a lot of types of irrationalities.And the one that particularly bothered me in the burn departmentwas the process by which the nurses took the bandage off me.Now, you must have all taken a Band-Aid off at some point,and you must have wondered what&#39;s the right approach.Do you rip it off quickly — short duration but high intensity —or do you take your Band-Aid off slowly —you take a long time, but each second is not as painful —which one of those is the right approach?
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:当时在我部门的护士认为一次快速的撕开才是正确的她们紧抓，然后撕开然后再紧抓，再撕开当时我身体有百分之七十的烧伤，整个过程要一个小时你可以想象我非常痛恨撕开绷带 极端痛苦的那刻我努力地想和她们讲理“我们不能试试其他方法吗？我们不能花长一点的时间或许两个小时 － 让痛苦不要这么强烈？护士告诉我两件事她们告诉我她们知道什么对患者是最好的她们知道如何减低我的痛苦并且患者这个词的意思不包括”提出建议”或“尝试干涉”不只在希伯来文是如此几乎我目前遇见的所有语言都是如此
en:The nurses in my department thought that the right approachwas the ripping one, so they would grab hold and they would rip,and they would grab hold and they would rip.And because I had 70 percent of my body burned, it would take about an hour.And as you can imagine,I hated that moment of ripping with incredible intensity.And I would try to reason with them and say,&quot;Why don&#39;t we try something else?Why don&#39;t we take it a little longer —maybe two hours instead of an hour — and have less of this intensity?&quot;And the nurses told me two things.They told me that they had the right model of the patient —that they knew what was the right thing to do to minimize my pain —and they also told me that the word patient doesn&#39;t meanto make suggestions or to interfere or ...This is not just in Hebrew, by the way.It&#39;s in every language I&#39;ve had experience with so far.
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:于是我无能为力她们继续她们的方法三年后，当我离开医院时我开始在大学做研究我在学校里学的最有趣的事情是“实验法”的存在你可以靠复制经验 来尝试找出解答抽象地说，你可以试着检验你的问题以尝试了解这个世界上的事情
en:And, you know, there&#39;s not much — there wasn&#39;t much I could do,and they kept on doing what they were doing.And about three years later, when I left the hospital,I started studying at the university.And one of the most interesting lessons I learnedwas that there is an experimental methodthat if you have a question you can create a replica of this questionin some abstract way, and you can try to examine this question,maybe learn something about the world.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:于是我就这么做了我仍然对如何撕开患者身上的绷带这个问题很有兴趣刚开始我没有什么资金我去五金行买了一个木匠用的老虎钳我把那些来到实验室的人的手指放到里面然后“嘎吱”一下
en:So that&#39;s what I did.I was still interestedin this question of how do you take bandages off burn patients.So originally I didn&#39;t have much money,so I went to a hardware store and I bought a carpenter&#39;s vice.And I would bring people to the lab and I would put their finger in it,and I would crunch it a little bit.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:我会用较长的时间或较短的时间挤压那些较为严重的痛 和较轻微的痛有休息的 和没有休息的 － 许多不同种类的痛当我结束伤害他们的时候，我会问这样有多痛？那样又有多痛？如果你可以从中选择一种的话你会选择哪一种？
en:And I would crunch it for long periods and short periods,and pain that went up and pain that went down,and with breaks and without breaks — all kinds of versions of pain.And when I finished hurting people a little bit, I would ask them,so, how painful was this? Or, how painful was this?Or, if you had to choose between the last two,which one would you choose?
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:我这么做了一阵子
en:I kept on doing this for a while.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:04
zh-cn:就像所有优秀的学术研究一样，我有更多资金我开始加入声波，电击我甚至制作了一件“疼痛服”让人们能感受到更多痛楚
en:And then, like all good academic projects, I got more funding.I moved to sounds, electrical shocks —I even had a pain suit that I could get people to feel much more pain.
时间： 3:15
zh-cn:但在研究结束后我发觉护士们是错的虽然她们都是善良的人经验丰富，但就算如此她们的观念仍然是错误的因为在我们测量痛楚时我们并没有考虑到延续性如果把时间拉长我的痛楚就会减低最好的方法是从最痛的脸部开始再逐渐地往腿部下移让我有一种逐渐减缓的感觉这样也能减低我的痛苦如果我可以在过程中稍作休息让我有一些时间从痛楚中恢复这所有的方法都能改善我当时的情况但这些护士却毫无所悉
en:But at the end of this process,what I learned was that the nurses were wrong.Here were wonderful people with good intentionsand plenty of experience, and neverthelessthey were getting things wrong predictably all the time.It turns out that because we don&#39;t encode durationin the way that we encode intensity,I would have had less pain if the duration would have been longerand the intensity was lower.It turns out it would have been better to start with my face,which was much more painful, and move toward my legs,giving me a trend of improvement over time —that would have been also less painful.And it also turns out that it would have been goodto give me breaks in the middle to kind of recuperate from the pain.All of these would have been great things to do,and my nurses had no idea.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:从那时我开始想这些护士是全世界唯一有这种错误认知的人在这件特别的事情上，还是这其实是一种普遍现象？于是我发现 其实这是一个普遍现象我们时常犯下这样的错误在这里我想以作弊作为例子来讨论这些非理性我选择作弊的原因是因为它很有趣也因为它也为我们现在股市的现状提供了一些线索我对作弊的兴趣从美国安然公司突然爆发丑闻开始我开始思考究竟发生了什么事情难道这是来自一些害群之马才能犯下的例子还是一种地方性的现象许多人都抱持着这样的态度？
en:And from that point on I started thinking,are the nurses the only people in the world who get things wrongin this particular decision, or is it a more general case?And it turns out it&#39;s a more general case —there&#39;s a lot of mistakes we do.And I want to give you one example of one of these irrationalities,and I want to talk to you about cheating.And the reason I picked cheating is because it&#39;s interesting,but also it tells us something, I think,about the stock market situation we&#39;re in.So, my interest in cheating startedwhen Enron came on the scene, exploded all of a sudden,and I started thinking about what is happening here.Is it the case that there was kind ofa few apples who are capable of doing these things,or are we talking a more endemic situation,that many people are actually capable of behaving this way?
时间： 4:45
zh-cn:于是，我们决定故技重施，进行一些简单的试验我们是这样做的如果你参加了这个实验，我会给你一张纸上面有二十个人人能解决的简单数学问题但我不会给你足够的时间当五分钟到了以后，我会说“把纸交给我，答对一题我就给你一块钱。”人们这么做了。我付他们四块平均来说，人可以解决四个问题我尝试引诱其中一些人作弊我会给他们一张纸五分钟到了以后，我会说“请将那张纸撕碎把碎片放在口袋或是背包里，然后告诉我你答对了几题。”平均突然从四题变成了七题不是有几个害群之马 —换句话说，一小群人作很大的弊而是一大群人作一些小弊
en:So, like we usually do, I decided to do a simple experiment.And here&#39;s how it went.If you were in the experiment, I would pass you a sheet of paperwith 20 simple math problems that everybody could solve,but I wouldn&#39;t give you enough time.When the five minutes were over, I would say,&quot;Pass me the sheets of paper, and I&#39;ll pay you a dollar per question.&quot;People did this. I would pay people four dollars for their task —on average people would solve four problems.Other people I would tempt to cheat.I would pass their sheet of paper.When the five minutes were over, I would say,&quot;Please shred the piece of paper.Put the little pieces in your pocket or in your backpack,and tell me how many questions you got correctly.&quot;People now solved seven questions on average.Now, it wasn&#39;t as if there was a few bad apples —a few people cheated a lot.Instead, what we saw is a lot of people who cheat a little bit.
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:在经济学理论上作弊是一种非常简单的成本效益分析被抓到的可能性有多高？我作弊的好处有多少？被抓到会有怎样的惩罚？你衡量这些选项一个简单的成本效益分析然后决定是否值得犯下罪行我们对此进行一些测验我们开始给他们不同数目的金钱他们所能偷窃的数目我们给他们十分钱，五十分一块钱，五块钱，到十块钱一个问题
en:Now, in economic theory,cheating is a very simple cost-benefit analysis.You say, what&#39;s the probability of being caught?How much do I stand to gain from cheating?And how much punishment would I get if I get caught?And you weigh these options out —you do the simple cost-benefit analysis,and you decide whether it&#39;s worthwhile to commit the crime or not.So, we try to test this.For some people, we varied how much money they could get away with —how much money they could steal.We paid them 10 cents per correct question, 50 cents,a dollar, five dollars, 10 dollars per correct question.
时间： 6:10
zh-cn:你预估当桌上的钱增多时人们也更愿意作弊。但事实上却不是仍有许多人为了很少的金钱作弊那难道是被抓到的可能性吗？有些人只撕了半张纸还有些证据留下有些人撕碎了整张纸有些人彻底撕碎了全部，走出房间然后从放有超过百元美金的碗里拿走钱你会预估当被抓的可能性降低人们作弊的几率便会提升，但却不是如此又一次地，许多人作了一些小弊人们并没被这些经济学所说的诱因影响
en:You would expect that as the amount of money on the table increases,people would cheat more, but in fact it wasn&#39;t the case.We got a lot of people cheating by stealing by a little bit.What about the probability of being caught?Some people shredded half the sheet of paper,so there was some evidence left.Some people shredded the whole sheet of paper.Some people shredded everything, went out of the room,and paid themselves from the bowl of money that had over 100 dollars.You would expect that as the probability of being caught goes down,people would cheat more, but again, this was not the case.Again, a lot of people cheated by just by a little bit,and they were insensitive to these economic incentives.
时间： 6:46
zh-cn:我们想“如果这些符合经济学逻辑的解答这些原因，对人们不造成影响那么究竟发生了什么事？”于是我们想，或许有两种力量一方面，我们都有自省的能力都希望对自己感觉良好，所以我们不想作弊另一方面，我们作一点小弊在还能对自己感觉良好的范围里所以或许我们心中有一种不能跨越的尺度但我们仍然能从一些小奸小恶中获利只要不要让我们自己感到不齿我们说这叫“自我蒙混因素”
en:So we said, &quot;If people are not sensitiveto the economic rational theory explanations, to these forces,what could be going on?&quot;And we thought maybe what is happening is that there are two forces.At one hand, we all want to look at ourselves in the mirrorand feel good about ourselves, so we don&#39;t want to cheat.On the other hand, we can cheat a little bit,and still feel good about ourselves.So, maybe what is happening is thatthere&#39;s a level of cheating we can&#39;t go over,but we can still benefit from cheating at a low degree,as long as it doesn&#39;t change our impressions about ourselves.We call this like a personal fudge factor.
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:但我们该如何测试自我蒙混因素呢？刚开始我们说，我们该怎么做来降低蒙混因素呢？当人们进入实验室时，我们说“今日我们要给你两个任务。”第一，我们问其中一半的人回想十本他们在高中所看过的书或是回忆圣经中的十诫然后我们尝试让他们作弊。我们发觉那些尝试回想十诫的人虽然在我们的标本中没有任何人能完整背诵出十诫但那些尝试回想圣经十诫的人面对作弊的可能性，却没有作弊那并不代表对宗教信仰比较虔诚的人那些能背诵出较多十诫的人，比较少作弊或那些对宗教信仰比较不虔诚的人那些无法回忆出任何一诫的人比较会作弊在人们尝试回想十诫的那一刻他们便不作弊了事实上，就算我们让那些自称是无神论的人把手放在圣经上发誓，然后再给他们作弊的机会他们也仍然没有作弊要把圣经十诫带进教育系统里是一件困难的事，所以我们说“不然我们让人们在荣誉行为准则上签名吧？”于是，我们让他们签名，“我认知这份简短调查遵行麻省理工学院的荣誉准则”然后把它撕碎。没有任何人作弊这真是非常有趣因为麻省理工学院根本没有任何荣誉准则（笑声）
en:Now, how would you test a personal fudge factor?Initially we said, what can we do to shrink the fudge factor?So, we got people to the lab, and we said,&quot;We have two tasks for you today.&quot;First, we asked half the peopleto recall either 10 books they read in high school,or to recall The Ten Commandments,and then we tempted them with cheating.Turns out the people who tried to recall The Ten Commandments —and in our sample nobody could recall all of The Ten Commandments —but those people who tried to recall The Ten Commandments,given the opportunity to cheat, did not cheat at all.It wasn&#39;t that the more religious people —the people who remembered more of the Commandments — cheated less,and the less religious people —the people who couldn&#39;t remember almost any Commandments —cheated more.The moment people thought about trying to recall The Ten Commandments,they stopped cheating.In fact, even when we gave self-declared atheiststhe task of swearing on the Bible and we give them a chance to cheat,they don&#39;t cheat at all.Now, Ten Commandments is something that is hardto bring into the education system, so we said,&quot;Why don&#39;t we get people to sign the honor code?&quot;So, we got people to sign,&quot;I understand that this short survey falls under the MIT Honor Code.&quot;Then they shredded it. No cheating whatsoever.And this is particularly interesting,because MIT doesn&#39;t have an honor code.(Laughter)
时间： 8:40
zh-cn:这是有关降低蒙混因素的又如何提高蒙混因素呢？第一个实验中 我在麻省理工学院游走我把半打可乐放进不同的冰箱中都是些给大学生的普通冰箱然后再回去测量我们所说的可乐的人生周期 - 它们能在冰箱里留多久？你可以想象那并没有多久。人们拿走它们。相对的，我把一个装着六章一块钱美金钞票的盘子放进那些同样的冰箱没有任何一张美金被拿走
en:So, all this was about decreasing the fudge factor.What about increasing the fudge factor?The first experiment — I walked around MITand I distributed six-packs of Cokes in the refrigerators —these were common refrigerators for the undergrads.And I came back to measure what we technically callthe half-lifetime of Coke — how long does it last in the refrigerators?As you can expect it doesn&#39;t last very long; people take it.In contrast, I took a plate with six one-dollar bills,and I left those plates in the same refrigerators.No bill ever disappeared.
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:这大概不是一个好的社会科学实验为了改善我再做了一次一样的实验就像我和诸位形容的一样三分之一的人把试验纸交会给我们三分之一的人把纸撕碎他们跟我们说“先生，我解决了几个问题，给我几块钱。”三分之一的人，在他们把纸撕碎以后他们跟我们说“先生，我解决了几个问题，给我几个代币。”我们没有付他们现金，而是一些其他的代替品他们拿着这些代替品，走到十二英尺远的旁边再把代替品换成现金
en:Now, this is not a good social science experiment,so to do it better I did the same experimentas I described to you before.A third of the people we passed the sheet, they gave it back to us.A third of the people we passed it to, they shredded it,they came to us and said,&quot;Mr. Experimenter, I solved X problems. Give me X dollars.&quot;A third of the people, when they finished shredding the piece of paper,they came to us and said,&quot;Mr Experimenter, I solved X problems. Give me X tokens.&quot;We did not pay them with dollars; we paid them with something else.And then they took the something else, they walked 12 feet to the side,and exchanged it for dollars.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:试着想想以下的假设状况从公司拿一支铅笔或是从公司钱柜里拿走十分钱哪一种感觉比较差？这些事给人的感觉差异很大把现金移动到稍为远一点的地方，改拿代币能不能造成什么差异？我们实验对象的作弊情况提高了两倍稍后我会告诉你这些例子和股市有什么关联但这仍然无法解决我对安然公司的疑问因为在安然，还有一个社会性的元素人们眼见其他人的作为事实上，每天我们看新闻都能看到人们作弊欺骗的例子这怎么影响我们？
en:Think about the following intuition.How bad would you feel about taking a pencil from work home,compared to how bad would you feelabout taking 10 cents from a petty cash box?These things feel very differently.Would being a step removed from cash for a few secondsby being paid by token make a difference?Our subjects doubled their cheating.I&#39;ll tell you what I thinkabout this and the stock market in a minute.But this did not solve the big problem I had with Enron yet,because in Enron, there&#39;s also a social element.People see each other behaving.In fact, every day when we open the newswe see examples of people cheating.What does this cause us?
时间：10:29
zh-cn:所以，我们又做了另一个实验我们召来一大群学生来参加实验我们先付他们钱所以每个人都先拿到装着实验回馈的信封在结束时，我们请他们把没有赚到的钱还给我们同样的事情发生了当我们给人们作弊的机会，他们作弊了他们只作了一点小弊，但都一样但这次我们请来一位学生演员这个学生演员在三十秒后站起来，说“我解开所有题目了，现在呢？”实验者则回答”如果你做完所有题目了，就回去吧。“就这样。任务结束了。所以现在我们有了一个学生 - 一个演员在这组人中没有人知道他是个演员只知道他明目张胆的作弊这会对在场的其他人有什么影响？他们会作更多的弊，或是相反？
en:So, we did another experiment.We got a big group of students to be in the experiment,and we prepaid them.So everybody got an envelope with all the money for the experiment,and we told them that at the end, we asked themto pay us back the money they didn&#39;t make. OK?The same thing happens.When we give people the opportunity to cheat, they cheat.They cheat just by a little bit, all the same.But in this experiment we also hired an acting student.This acting student stood up after 30 seconds, and said,&quot;I solved everything. What do I do now?&quot;And the experimenter said, &quot;If you&#39;ve finished everything, go home.That&#39;s it. The task is finished.&quot;So, now we had a student — an acting student —that was a part of the group.Nobody knew it was an actor.And they clearly cheated in a very, very serious way.What would happen to the other people in the group?Will they cheat more, or will they cheat less?
时间：11:22
zh-cn:事情是这样发生的。结果是，那取决于他们身上穿的衣服因为我们在卡内基梅隆和匹兹堡大学进行这次实验在匹兹堡有两家主要的大学卡内基梅隆和匹兹堡大学而我们的实验对象都是卡内基梅隆大学的学生当站起来的演员穿着卡内基梅隆的衣服他其实也是个卡内基梅隆的学生也就是说他是团队中的一员，作弊的情况增加了但当他穿着一件匹兹堡大学的外衣时作弊的情况便减少了
en:Here is what happens.It turns out it depends on what kind of sweatshirt they&#39;re wearing.Here is the thing.We ran this at Carnegie Mellon and Pittsburgh.And at Pittsburgh there are two big universities,Carnegie Mellon and University of Pittsburgh.All of the subjects sitting in the experimentwere Carnegie Mellon students.When the actor who was getting up was a Carnegie Mellon student —he was actually a Carnegie Mellon student —but he was a part of their group, cheating went up.But when he actually had a University of Pittsburgh sweatshirt,cheating went down.
时间：11:58
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:01
zh-cn:这是很重要的一点，因为记住在这个学生站起来的那一刻他对在场所有人证明作弊是可行的因为实验者说”你做完所有题目了，回去吧。“他们就带着钱回去了所以这和被抓到的几率无关而是一种作弊的典范如果在我们的团队中有人作弊，我们也看到他们作弊我们便觉得那是适当的，身为一个团队，有这一样的态度但如果是个外人，那些糟糕的人不是说他们做题做的不好而是那些我们不想被当成一丘之貉的人那些其他学校的，其他团体的突然人们的诚实和警觉性都提高了有点类似之前的圣经十诫实验作弊的情况更加降低了。
en:Now, this is important, because remember,when the moment the student stood up,it made it clear to everybody that they could get away with cheating,because the experimenter said,&quot;You&#39;ve finished everything. Go home,&quot; and they went with the money.So it wasn&#39;t so much about the probability of being caught again.It was about the norms for cheating.If somebody from our in-group cheats and we see them cheating,we feel it&#39;s more appropriate, as a group, to behave this way.But if it&#39;s somebody from another group, these terrible people —I mean, not terrible in this —but somebody we don&#39;t want to associate ourselves with,from another university, another group,all of a sudden people&#39;s awareness of honesty goes up —a little bit like The Ten Commandments experiment —and people cheat even less.
时间：12:43
zh-cn:所以，我们究竟从这些实验中学到了什么？我们知道许多人都会作弊他们作一点点小弊当我们唤起人们的道德感，作弊的情况减少当我们提高和作弊之中的距离像是现金，作弊的情况便提高当我们看到身边的人作弊尤其是我们的同侪，作弊的情况便提高当我们想到股市的时候想到现在发生的事情当你创造了这个环境你付他们很多的钱扭曲了他们对现实的看法？他们能不这么看吗？当然他们会这样做。当你又做了一些其他的事情像是用一些东西代替现金？你叫他们股票，或是选择权，衍生商品按揭证券有没有可能因为这些东西听来遥远它不只是一个几秒外的代币而是离现金有一段距离的象征物冠以更长的时间 - 人们是否会更容易作弊？在今日的社会环境中，人们看到他人的行为时又会有什么影响和反应？这全都是一些很不好的因素和影响在今日的股市中
en:So, what have we learned from this about cheating?We&#39;ve learned that a lot of people can cheat.They cheat just by a little bit.When we remind people about their morality, they cheat less.When we get bigger distance from cheating,from the object of money, for example, people cheat more.And when we see cheating around us,particularly if it&#39;s a part of our in-group, cheating goes up.Now, if we think about this in terms of the stock market,think about what happens.What happens in a situation when you create somethingwhere you pay people a lot of moneyto see reality in a slightly distorted way?Would they not be able to see it this way?Of course they would.What happens when you do other things,like you remove things from money?You call them stock, or stock options, derivatives,mortgage-backed securities.Could it be that with those more distant things,it&#39;s not a token for one second,it&#39;s something that is many steps removed from moneyfor a much longer time — could it be that people will cheat even more?And what happens to the social environmentwhen people see other people behave around them?I think all of those forces worked in a very bad wayin the stock market.
时间：13:55
zh-cn:我想泛泛地谈一些有关行为经济学的事在人生中我们有许多直觉却有许多是错误的问题是，我们该去检视这些直觉吗？我们可以思考我们该如何去检视这些直觉从我们的私生活，我们的公事特别是制定政策的时候当我们想到一些像“一个都不能少”这种教育政策当你开发一些新的股票市场，当你制定一些新的政策税法，健康保险等检测直觉是非常困难的这是在我回去和这些护士谈话时学到的一个教训。
en:More generally, I want to tell you somethingabout behavioral economics.We have many intuitions in our life,and the point is that many of these intuitions are wrong.The question is, are we going to test those intuitions?We can think about how we&#39;re going to test this intuitionin our private life, in our business life,and most particularly when it goes to policy,when we think about things like No Child Left Behind,when you create new stock markets, when you create other policies —taxation, health care and so on.And the difficulty of testing our intuitionwas the big lesson I learnedwhen I went back to the nurses to talk to them.
时间：14:33
zh-cn:我回到当初的医院告诉他们对于撕开绷带方法的新发现我学到两件有趣的事一是我最喜欢的护士，Ettie告诉我我并没有考虑到她的痛苦她说“当然，那对你来说很痛苦但想想身为护士的我要从一个我喜欢的人身上撕开这些绷带并且要长期不断地重复这个动作我也不想为自己带来这么大的折磨，那也并不好受。”她说，或许对她来说如此困难是因为这实在非常有趣，因为她说“我不觉得你的直觉是对的我觉得我的直觉才是对的。”所以，当想到我们的那些直觉时要相信自己的直觉是错误的是非常困难的。她说，正因为我认为我的直觉是对的她也认为她的直觉是正确的她很难接受这样去做一个艰难的实验来证明她是对或错。
en:So I went back to talk to themand tell them what I found out about removing bandages.And I learned two interesting things.One was that my favorite nurse, Ettie,told me that I did not take her pain into consideration.She said, &quot;Of course, you know, it was very painful for you.But think about me as a nurse,taking, removing the bandages of somebody I liked,and had to do it repeatedly over a long period of time.Creating so much torture was not something that was good for me, too.&quot;And she said maybe part of the reason was it was difficult for her.But it was actually more interesting than that, because she said,&quot;I did not think that your intuition was right.I felt my intuition was correct.&quot;So, if you think about all of your intuitions,it&#39;s very hard to believe that your intuition is wrong.And she said, &quot;Given the fact that I thought my intuition was right ...&quot; —she thought her intuition was right —it was very difficult for her to accept doing a difficult experimentto try and check whether she was wrong.
时间：15:30
zh-cn:但事实上，这正是我们每日面对的状况对许多事我们都有很强的直觉我们自己的能力，经济运作的方式我们应该付给学校老师多少薪水但在我们真正开始去检测这些直觉前我们都不会有什么进步只要想想如果那些护士能检测自己的直觉我的人生会有多大的改善每件事又会有多大的改善如果我们能开始有系统性地测验我们的直觉
en:But in fact, this is the situation we&#39;re all in all the time.We have very strong intuitions about all kinds of things —our own ability, how the economy works,how we should pay school teachers.But unless we start testing those intuitions,we&#39;re not going to do better.And just think about how better my life would have beenif these nurses would have been willing to check their intuition,and how everything would have been betterif we just start doing more systematic experimentation of our intuitions.
时间：15:57
zh-cn:非常谢谢各位。
en:Thank you very much.
