时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我要先进行自我忏悔。作为一名科学家和工程师，多年来我一直专注效率。但是效率可能会成为一种桎梏，今天我想要告诉大家一段旅程，它使我走出桎梏重回多彩人生。
en:I have a confession to make.As a scientist and engineer,I&#39;ve focused on efficiency for many years.But efficiency can be a cult,and today I&#39;d like to tell youabout a journeythat moved me out of the cultand back to a far richer reality.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:几年前，我在伦敦完成了博士学业后搬到了波士顿。我住在波士顿，工作在剑桥。那年夏天，我买了一辆竞速自行车，我每天骑着它上班。我用手机导航，它让我走马萨诸塞大道，那是从波士顿到剑桥最短的一段路。但在是交通拥挤的马萨诸塞大道骑行了一个月后，有一天我走了一条不一样的路。我不记得为什么我当时选择了不一样的路，绕了一下，只记得那种惊喜的感觉，惊喜于发现了一条没有汽车驶过的道路，与挤满车辆的马萨诸塞大道形成了鲜明的对比；惊喜于发现了一条被树叶覆盖被绿树环绕的路。但是这种惊喜之后，我感到了羞愧。我以前怎么就没发现？整整一个月，我受制于手机导航，每天去工作的路程只意味着一件事：最短路线。在这段路途中，我从来没有过任何享受旅途的想法，没有心情体会大自然，没有机会向路上的行人示意，为什么会这样？因为我为了节约一分钟的通勤时间。
en:A few years ago, after finishing my Ph.D. in London, I moved to Boston.I lived in Boston and worked in Cambridge.I bought a racing bicycle that summer,and I bicycled every day to work.To find my way, I used my phone.It sent me over Mass. Ave.,Massachusetts Avenue,the shortest route fromBoston to Cambridge.But after a monththat I was cycling every dayon the car-packed Mass. Ave.,I took a different route one day.I&#39;m not entirely sure why I tooka different route that day, a detour.I just remember a feeling of surprise;surprise at finding a street with no cars,as opposed to the nearbyMass. Ave. full of cars;surprise at finding a street draped by leaves and surrounded by trees.But after the feeling of surprise, I felt shame.How could I have been so blind?For an entire month,I was so trapped in my mobile appthat a journey to workbecame one thing only:the shortest path.In this single journey,there was no thoughtof enjoying the road,no pleasure in connecting with nature,no possibility of lookingpeople in the eyes.And why?Because I was saving a minuteout of my commute.
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:那么现在我问你们：这样做的只有我一个人吗？你们中有多少人从来没用过手机地图导航？大多数用过。请不要误会，地图软件使我们的生活便利许多，它鼓励人们去发现你所在的城市。你带上你的手机，你就知道往哪里走。但是，地图软件假设到达目的地只有那几种途径，它把那有限的几种途径作为到达目的地的终极途径来呈现。
en:Now let me ask you: Am I alone here?How many of you have never useda mapping app for finding directions?Most of you, if not all, have.And don&#39;t get me wrong — mapping appsare the greatest game-changerfor encouraging peopleto explore the city.You take your phone outand you know immediately where to go.However, the app also assumesthere are only a handfulof directions to the destination.It has the power to makethose handful of directionsthe definitive directionto that destination.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:在那次无意的经历之后，我变了。我将我的研究方向从传统的数据挖掘转向了了解人们如何体验所在的城市。我使用电脑技术在网络上进行大规模的社会科学实验。我被传统的社科研究的美与精妙深深吸引了，那些 Jane Jacob，Stanley Milgram 和 Kevin Lynch 做的研究。研究的结果促成了一个新的地图软件的开发，一个你不仅能找到最短路程——以蓝色标记，而且能找到最享受的路程的地图——以红色标记。这是如何实现的？
en:After that experience, I changed.I changed my researchfrom traditional data-miningto understanding how peopleexperience the city.I used computer science toolsto replicate social scienceexperiments at scale, at web scale.I became captivatedby the beauty and geniusof traditional social science experimentsdone by Jane Jacobs,Stanley Milgram, Kevin Lynch.The result of that researchhas been the creation of new maps,maps where you don&#39;t only findthe shortest path, the blue one,but also the most enjoyable path,the red one.How was that possible?
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:爱因斯坦曾经说过：“逻辑思维可以带你从A走到B，想象力可以带你去任何地方。”所以，依靠一点点想象力，我们需要知道人们觉得这个城市的哪些地方是美的。在剑桥大学，我跟我的同事们一起想到了一个简单的实验。如果我现在向你展示两张城市风光的图片，然后我问你，你觉得哪一张更美，你会怎么说？不要害羞。谁觉得是第一张，谁觉得是第二张？很好。根据这个想法，我们做了一个众包平台，一个网络游戏。我们展示两张城市景色图片给玩家，让他们选择哪一张的景色更漂亮，静谧，令人愉悦。依据成千上万的用户的选择，我们能找出那些被大众一致选择的图片，我们能看到哪些城市美景令人愉悦。
en:Einstein once said,&quot;Logic will get you from A to B.Imagination will take you everywhere.&quot;So with a bit of imagination,we needed to understandwhich parts of the citypeople find beautiful.At the University of Cambridge,with colleagues,we thought about this simple experiment.If I were to show youthese two urban scenes,and I were to ask youwhich one is more beautiful,which one would you say?Don&#39;t be shy.Who says A? Who says B?Brilliant.Based on that idea,we built a crowdsourcing platform,a web game.Players are shown pairs of urban scenes,and they&#39;re asked to choose which one is more beautiful, quiet and happy.Based on thousands of user votes,then we are able to seewhere consensus emerges.We are able to see whichare the urban scenesthat make people happy.
时间： 4:50
zh-cn:这之后，我加入了雅虎实验室，我和 Luca 以及 Rossano 组成一个团队，我们一起汇总了那些伦敦的胜出地点并制作了全新的城市地图，充满了人类情感的地图。在这个地图上，你不仅能够看到A到B的最短路程，你还可以看到快乐的路程，漂亮的路程，静谧的路程。在实验中，参与者更加喜欢快乐的、漂亮的、静谧的路程，而非最短的路程，而前者只增加了几分钟的路程。参与者也喜欢把风景贴上记忆的标签，集体记忆——比如，这是 BBC 曾经的办公室，个人记忆——比如，这是我的初吻发生的地方，他们还回忆起某条路的气息和声音。如果我们有这样一个制图工具——在挑选最让人享受的路程时，它不仅会考虑风景，还考虑气息，声音和记忆，会怎样？这是我们目前研究的东西。总的来说，我的研究试图做的就是避免单一路程的危险，避免剥夺人们充分享受他们所居住的城市的权利。穿过公园，而非停车场，你会有全然不同的路程。走那条充满了你所爱的人的道路，而非被汽车占据的道路，你会有全然不同的路程。就这么简单。
en:After that work, I joined Yahoo Labs,and I teamed up with Luca and Rossano,and together, we aggregatedthose winning locations in Londonto build a new map of the city,a cartography weighted for human emotions.On this cartography, you&#39;re not onlyable to see and connectfrom point A to point B the shortest segments,but you&#39;re also ableto see the happy segment,the beautiful path, the quiet path.In tests, participants found the happy,the beautiful, the quiet pathfar more enjoyable than the shortest one,and that just by addinga few minutes to travel time.Participants also love to attachmemories to places.Shared memories —that&#39;s where the old BBC building was;and personal memories —that&#39;s where I gave my first kiss.They also recalled how some pathssmelled and sounded.So what if we had a mapping toolthat would returnthe most enjoyable routesbased not only on aestheticsbut also based on smell, sound, and memories?That&#39;s where our researchis going right now.More generally, my research,what it tries to do is avoidthe danger of the single path,to avoid robbing people of fullyexperiencing the city in which they live.Walk the path through the park,not through the car park,and you have an entirely different path.Walk the path full of people you loveand not full of cars,and you have an entirely different path.It&#39;s that simple.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:我想以下面这个想法来结尾：你记得电影《楚门的世界》吗？这是一部嘲讽媒体的电影，其主角不知道他生活在一个虚假的世界里。也许我们生活在一个为效率而生的虚假的世界里。看看你平常的生活习惯，电影中楚门逃离了那个虚假的世界，为什么？如果你觉得冒险很危险，试试平庸吧，那可是致命的。
en:I would like to end with this thought:do you remember &quot;The Truman Show?&quot;It&#39;s a media satire in which a real persondoesn&#39;t know he&#39;s livingin a fabricated world.Perhaps we live in a worldfabricated for efficiency.Look at some of your daily habits,and as Truman did in the movie,escape the fabricated world.Why?Well, if you think that adventureis dangerous, try routine. It&#39;s deadly.
时间： 7:12
zh-cn:谢谢！
en:Thank you.
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
