时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是个学者或者更准确地说，一个高功能自闭症学者。这是一种少见的情况。更罕见的是，我的这种状况，还伴随自我感知意识而且还精通语言。比较常见的是，当我遇到一些人他们知道我的这些情况，这就会有点尴尬。我能从他们的眼里看出来他们想问我一些事情经常是到了最后他们的强烈好奇就绷不住了他们会脱口而问：“如果我告诉你我的生日，你能告诉我，我是星期几出生的吗？”（笑声）或者他们会提到立方根又或者让我背一个很长的数字或文字。请你们原谅我今天我不会在这儿展示这类似的“学者表演”今天我不谈这些说点其它的更有趣的话题而不是生日和立方根之类的—会有一点深奥会比我的天赋更接近我的思想。
en:I&#39;m a savant,or more precisely,a high-functioningautistic savant.It&#39;s a rare condition.And rarer still when accompanied,as in my case,by self-awarenessand a mastery of language.Very often when I meet someoneand they learn this about me,there&#39;s a certain kind of awkwardness.I can see it in their eyes.They want to ask me something.And in the end, quite often,the urge is stronger than they areand they blurt it out:&quot;If I give you my date of birth,can you tell me what day of the week I was born on?&quot;(Laughter)Or they mention cube rootsor ask me to recite a long number or long text.I hope you&#39;ll forgive meif I don&#39;t performa kind of one-man savant show for you today.I&#39;m going to talk insteadabout somethingfar more interestingthan dates of birth or cube roots —a little deeperand a lot closer, to my mind, than work.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:我想简单的和你们谈谈关于感知。契诃夫写那些让他扬名的剧本和小故事时，他习惯随身带着笔记本，随手记录记录下他的观察记录下他周围的世界那些都是些小细节可其他人易忽略那些细节。每次我读契诃夫的作品以及他对人们生活的独特见解我都认识到为什么我也能成为一个作家。在我的书里，我探索了感知的本质，以及不同的感觉如何创造出不同的感知和不同的理解。
en:I want to talk to you brieflyabout perception.When he was writing the plays and the short storiesthat would make his name,Anton Chekhov kept a notebookin which he noted downhis observationsof the world around him —little detailsthat other people seem to miss.Every time I read Chekhovand his unique vision of human life,I&#39;m reminded of why I toobecame a writer.In my books,I explore the nature of perceptionand how different kinds of perceivingcreate different kinds of knowingand understanding.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:下面有三个问题源于我的研究。与其说要解决这些问题，我更想邀请你们感受一下那种直觉和那种本能那些当你看到题目时在你的头脑和内心里出现的直觉和本能。例如这个计算题，你能感知到那行数字答案可能是多少吗？或者看看这个外语单词和读音你能猜到大概的意思吗那种直觉给出的答案？这行诗，诗人为什么用hare （兔）这个词而不是用rabbit（兔）？我请你们思考这些因为我相信我们的个人感知是我们如何获取知识的核心感知判断，而非抽象推理，指导并塑造了我们了解事物的过程由此我们都会了解到我们所感知的东西。我是一个极端的例子。
en:Here are three questionsdrawn from my work.Rather than try to figure them out,I&#39;m going to ask you to consider for a momentthe intuitionsand the gut instinctsthat are going through your head and your heartas you look at them.For example, the calculation:can you feel where on the number linethe solution is likely to fall?Or look at the foreign word and the sounds:can you get a sense of the range of meaningsthat it&#39;s pointing you towards?And in terms of the line of poetry,why does the poet use the word harerather than rabbit?I&#39;m asking you to do thisbecause I believe our personal perceptions, you see,are at the heartof how we acquire knowledge.Aesthetic judgments,rather than abstract reasoning,guide and shape the processby which we all come to knowwhat we know.I&#39;m an extreme example of this.
时间： 3:27
zh-cn:在我的文字和数字世界里，色彩，情感和个性都是混合在一起的。就像Juan胡安所说的，科学家们称这种情况是联觉，一种不常见的通感连结各种感觉。这里是数字1到12在我眼里每个数字都有着自己的形状和特点。1是一闪的白光6是微小而悲伤的黑洞这些速写是黑白的但是在我眼里他们是有色彩的。3是绿色的4是蓝色的5是黄色的
en:My worlds of words and numbersblur with color, emotionand personality.As Juan said,it&#39;s the condition that scientists call synesthesia,an unusual cross-talkbetween the senses.Here are the numbers one to 12as I see them —every number with its own shape and character.One is a flash of white light.Six is a tiny and very sad black hole.The sketches are in black and white here,but in my mind they have colors.Three is green.Four is blue.Five is yellow.
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:我把它们画下来这是我的一幅画。这是两个素数的乘法呈三维形状和中间形成的空间又组成了一个新的形状，就是他们的总和。更&quot;大&quot;的数字会怎么样呢？你不能得到一个比圆周率派Pi更“大”的数字了，它是数学常数。是一个无限的数字—就是说它永远不会结束。在我画的这个图里，是派Pi的前20位数字，我使用颜色，情感和纹理我把这些组合到一起，就成了一个起伏的数字风景画。
en:I paint as well.And here is one of my paintings.It&#39;s a multiplication of two prime numbers.Three-dimensional shapesand the space they create in the middlecreates a new shape,the answer to the sum.What about bigger numbers?Well you can&#39;t get much bigger than Pi,the mathematical constant.It&#39;s an infinite number —literally goes on forever.In this painting that I madeof the first 20 decimals of Pi,I take the colorsand the emotions and the texturesand I pull them all togetherinto a kind of rolling numerical landscape.
时间： 5:05
zh-cn:在我眼里不仅数字是有颜色的，对我来说，文字也一样有颜色，情感，和纹理。这是出自小说《洛丽塔》的开场白(Lolita, light of my life)。作者纳博科夫本身就是有联觉的你从这里可以看出来，我对L这个音的感觉使得字头押韵能突出感觉。另一个例子稍微有一点数学化了。我想知道你们中的某些人是否会注意到出自《了不起的盖茨比》 （又译《大亨小传》）的这个句子结构。有这么一行音节—谷物，一个音节；大草原，二个音节；丢失的瑞典人镇，三个音节—一，二，三。这种押韵的效果让人感到身心非常愉悦，也让我们感到句子很通畅。
en:But it&#39;s not only numbers that I see in colors.Words too, for me,have colors and emotionsand textures.And this is an opening phrasefrom the novel &quot;Lolita.&quot;And Nabokov was himself synesthetic.And you can see herehow my perception of the sound Lhelps the alliterationto jump right out.Another example:a little bit more mathematical.And I wonder if some of you will noticethe construction of the sentencefrom &quot;The Great Gatsby.&quot;There is a procession of syllables —wheat, one;prairies, two;lost Swede towns, three —one, two, three.And this effect is very pleasant on the mind,and it helps the sentenceto feel right.
时间： 6:05
zh-cn:让我们回到我之前提出的问题上来64乘以75如果你们中有人下棋，你会知道64是一个平方数这也是为什么棋盘边长为8×8而有了64个方格这样我们就得到一个表格用来画图和感知。那么如果是75呢？假如是100如果我们把100想成一个正方形，75就会是这个样子。那么我们现在要做的就是把这两个图组合起一同放入脑海中-就是这个样子。64就成了6,400在右下角你不需要任何计算4个横跨的，4个上下的—得到16.那么你需要做的就是加总和16，16， 16。这简单多了我相信比学校教给你的方法简单。16，16，16， 得到48.那么就是4,800—4,800这就是最后答案。当你知道怎么做，问题就容易了。
en:Let&#39;s go back to the questionsI posed you a moment ago.64 multiplied by 75.If some of you play chess,you&#39;ll know that 64is a square number,and that&#39;s why chessboards,eight by eight,have 64 squares.So that gives us a formthat we can picture, that we can perceive.What about 75?Well if 100,if we think of 100 as being like a square,75 would look like this.So what we need to do nowis put those two picturestogether in our mind —something like this.64 becomes 6,400.And in the right-hand corner,you don&#39;t have to calculate anything.Four across, four up and down —it&#39;s 16.So what the sum is actually asking you to dois 16,16, 16.That&#39;s a lot easierthan the way that the school taught you to do math, I&#39;m sure.It&#39;s 16, 16, 16, 48,4,800 —4,800,the answer to the sum.Easy when you know how.
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:第二个问题是一个冰岛单词。我相信在座的没有几个人会说冰岛语的。那么我把问题缩减成两个。Hnugginn:这单词是指快乐的意思还是指悲伤的？你怎么认为？好的。有人说是快乐的，但是大多数人说是悲伤的。这个词实际意思是悲伤的。（笑声）为什么统计下来在此，大多数人认为这个词是悲伤的，而在另一个情景里，是痛苦的意思？根据我的理论，语言的发展经历了这样的过程匹配声音对应主题同时伴随着听者个人的直观经验来发展。
en:The second question was an Icelandic word.I&#39;m assuming there are not many people herewho speak Icelandic.So let me narrow the choices down to two.Hnugginn:is it a happy word,or a sad word?What do you say?Okay.Some people say it&#39;s happy.Most people, a majority of people,say sad.And it actually means sad.(Laughter)Why do, statistically,a majority of peoplesay that a word is sad, in this case,heavy in other cases?In my theory, language evolves in such a waythat sounds match,correspond with, the subjective,with the personal,intuitive experienceof the listener.
时间： 8:36
zh-cn:让我们看看第三个问题。这是约翰·济慈的诗里的一句。文字像数字，能够表达本质关系由外物事件和力量组成我们的世界。显然，我们生存在这个世界上应该在我们的有生之年直观地汲取这些关系。诗人就像其他艺术家一样，演绎着那些直观的理解。兔子的那个问题，hare在英语里是一个有点含糊的词这个词也可以是头上的毛发的意思。如果我们考虑到这个—让我把这个图拿上来—毛发代表着脆弱他们让步于最轻微的运动或手势，或情感。所以你就得到一种脆弱紧张的感觉气氛。那个兔子，一个动物-不是猫，不是狗，而是一只兔子—为什么是一只兔子？因为联想到这副图，不是这句话，而是这个图。超长的耳朵超大的脚帮助我们描绘、去凭直觉感知跛脚的感觉和颤抖的感觉。
en:Let&#39;s have a look at the third question.It&#39;s a line from a poem by John Keats.Words, like numbers,express fundamental relationshipsbetween objectsand events and forcesthat constitute our world.It stands to reason that we, existing in this world,should in the course of our livesabsorb intuitively those relationships.And poets, like other artists,play with those intuitive understandings.In the case of hare,it&#39;s an ambiguous sound in English.It can also mean the fibers that grow from a head.And if we think of that —let me put the picture up —the fibers represent vulnerability.They yield to the slightest movementor motion or emotion.So what you have is an atmosphereof vulnerability and tension.The hare itself, the animal —not a cat, not a dog, a hare —why a hare?Because think of the picture —not the word, the picture.The overlong ears,the overlarge feet,helps us to picture, to feel intuitively,what it means to limpand to tremble.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:在这几分钟里，我希望我能够分享一些我的视角并向你们展现文字也有颜色，情感数字，形状和性格。这世界比它看起来会更丰富，更广阔。希望我给你们带来一种渴望从新视角来看待这个世界。
en:So in these few minutes,I hope I&#39;ve been able to sharea little bit of my vision of thingsand to show youthat words can have colors and emotions,numbers, shapes and personalities.The world is richer,vasterthan it too often seems to be.I hope that I&#39;ve given you the desireto learn to see the world with new eyes.
时间：10:30
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
