时间： 0:11
zh-cn:几年前我参加在长滩TED会议的时候，我遇到了哈里特。实际上我们以前在网上遇到过—不是像你们想的那样。我们认识是因为我们都认识琳达·埃维，首家私营基因公司创始人之一。并且因为我们和琳达分享我们的基因信息，她知道哈里特和我都有一种很稀有的线粒体DNA —K1a1b1a 单模标本 —这意味着我们是远亲。实际上，我们都和冰人奥兹有亲缘关系。没错，奥兹，哈里特和我。当然，如今我们有了自己的脸书网群组。欢迎你们加入。当我在第二年TED会议遇见哈里特的时候，她在线订购了我们自己快乐的单模标本T恤衫。(笑声）
en:A couple of years agowhen I was attending the TED Conference in Long Beach,I met Harriet.We&#39;d actually met online before —not the way you&#39;re thinking.We were actually introduced because we both knew Linda Avey,one of the founders of the first online personal genomic companies.And because we shared our genetic information with Linda,she could see that Harriet and Ishared a very rare type of mitochondrial DNA —Haplotype K1a1b1a —which meant that we were distantly related.We actually share the same genealogy with Ozzie the iceman.So Ozzie, Harriet and me.And being the current day, of course, we started our own Facebook group.You&#39;re all welcome to join.And when I met Harriet in person the next year at the TED Conference,she&#39;d gone online and ordered our own happy Haplotype T-shirts.(Laughter)
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:为什么我要告诉你们这个故事，这和未来健康有什么关系呢？实际上，我遇见哈里特的经过是一个很好的例子关于怎样利用学科交叉，指数增长的技术来影响我们将来的健康和保健事业—从低成本的基因分析到做强大生物信息学的能力到互联网和社会网络间的联系。我今天想谈的是理解这些指数增长的技术。我们经常线性思考。但是如果想像一下，如果你有一个睡莲叶子它每天分裂一次—2，4，8，16 —15天以后会有32000个叶子。你认为1个月以后有多少？我们会有10亿。如果我们开始指数思考，我们会看到这会怎样影响到我们周围的技术。
en:Now why am I telling you this story,and what does this have to do with the future of health?Well the way I met Harriet is actually an exampleof how leveraging cross-disciplinary,exponentially-growing technologiesis affecting our future of health and wellness —from low-cost gene analysisto the ability to do powerful bio-informaticsto the connection of the Internet and social networking.What I&#39;d like to talk about todayis understanding these exponential technologies.We often think linearly.But if you think about it, if you have a lily padand it just divided every single day —two, four, eight, 16 —in 15 days you have 32,000.What do you think you have in a month? We&#39;re at a billion.So if we start to think exponentially,we can see how this is starting to affect all the technologies around us.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:许多技术—像一位物理学家和革新者所说的—我们能真正开始去利用它们影响我们的未来健康和卫生保健，和谈论如今许多卫生保健面临的主要困难从巨额投入到高龄人群，我们没有真正很好地使用信息的现状，保健不均衡和常常面对困难棘手的经历例如采用革新的历程。今天我们谈到主要的事情之一是把曲线向左移。我们在生命的最后20%时间里花费了大部分的钱。如果我们能够投资和激励岗位在健康保健系统和我们自身来向左移动这条曲线从而改善我们的健康，利用技术，会怎么样呢？我最喜爱的技术，指数技术的例子，在我们所有人的口袋里。因此如果你想一下，你会发现这些技术真的显著提高了。我指的是iPhone 4.想像iPhone 8将能做什么。
en:And many of these technologies — speaking as a physician and innovator —we can really start to leverageto impact the future of our own health and of health care,and to address many of the major challenges that we have in health care today,ranging from the really exponential coststo the aging population,the way we really don&#39;t use information very well today,the fragmentation of careand often the very difficult courseof adoption of innovation.And one of the major things we can do we&#39;ve talked a bit about here todayis moving the curve to the left.We spend most of our money on the last 20 percent of life.What if we could spend and incentivize positionsin the health care system and our own selfto move the curve to the left and improve our health,leveraging technology as well?Now my favorite technology, example of exponential technology,we all have in our pocket.So if you think about it, these are really dramatically improving.I mean this is the iPhone 4.Imagine what the iPhone 8 will be able to do.
时间： 2:23
zh-cn:现在，我有了一些见解。我追踪观察新成立的奇点大学的医学院它座落在硅谷。每个夏天我们召集世界各地100名非常有天赋的学生。我们研究这些指数技术从医学，生物技术，人工智能，机器人技术，纳米技术，太空技术，来发现如何能多项培训并利用这些技术去影响重大未实现的目标。我们也有一个7天执行方案。接下来几个月的方案是“未来医学”，一个帮助多项培训和把技术应用到医学的项目。
en:Now, I&#39;ve gained some insight into this.I&#39;ve been the track sharefor the medicine portion of a new institution called Singularity Universitybased in Silicon Valley.And we bring together every summerabout 100 very talented students from around the world.And we look at these exponential technologies from medicine, biotech,artificial intelligence, robotics, nanotechnology, space,and address how can we cross-trainand leverage these to impact major unmet goals.We also have seven-day executive programs.And coming up next month is actually Future Med,a program to help cross-train and leverage technologies into medicine.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:现在我来说电话。这些手机有超过20000个不同的应用程序—从这点上说，有一个与众不同，那就是你可以通过在你的iPhone相连的一小块芯片上小便来自查是否有性传染病。我不知道我是否会这样做，但是它确实可用。还有很多种应用，把你的电话和诊断联系在一起，例如—用你的iPhone测量你的血糖并可能把数据发给你的医生使得他们和你都能更好得了解你作为一个糖尿病人的血糖。现在让我们看看指数技术怎样进行健康保健。让我们从速度开始。我们都知道，根据摩尔定律，计算机运算速度越来越快。
en:Now I mentioned the phone.These mobile phones have over 20,000 different mobile apps available —to the point where there&#39;s one out of the U.K.where you can pee on a little chip connected to your iPhoneand check yourself for an STD.I don&#39;t know if I&#39;d try that yet, but that&#39;s available.There are all other sorts of applications,merging your phone and diagnostics, for example —measuring your blood glucose on your iPhoneand sending that, potentially, to your physicianso they can better understand and you can better understandyour blood sugars as a diabetic.So let&#39;s see now how exponential technologies are taking health care.Let&#39;s start with faster.Well it&#39;s no secret that computers, through Moore&#39;s law,are speeding up faster and faster.
时间： 3:27
zh-cn:因此我们能够做更强大的事情。他们正在接近，在很多情况超越人类思维的能力。但是我认为计算速度最适用的地方是在于成像技术。这种技术能即时的观察身体内部用非常高的分辨率，真的很神奇。我们正在综合多种技术—PET扫描，CT扫描和分子诊断—来发现和寻找不同层面的东西。今天在这里你们将会看到非常高分辨率的MRI扫描，它是由TEDMED的主持者马克·霍道什重建的。现在我们能看到大脑内部用一种以前没有过的分辨率和能力，本质上学会如何重建，也许甚至再设计，或者逆向设计大脑，因此我们能更好的理解病理学，疾病，和治疗。我们能用fMRI即时查看内部—即时在大脑内部。通过了解这些过程和联系，我们能够理解药物治疗或者冥想的影响从而更好的提供个人化有效的治疗，例如，精神药物。
en:We have the ability to do more powerful things with them.They&#39;re really approaching, in many cases surpassing,the ability of the human mind.But where I think computational speed is most applicableis in that of imaging.The ability now to look inside the body in real timewith very high resolution is really becoming incredible.And we&#39;re layering multiple technologies — PET scans, CT scansand molecular diagnostics —to find and to seek things at different levels.Here you&#39;re going to see the very highest resolution MRI scan done today,reconstructed of Marc Hodosh, the curator of TEDMED.And now we can see inside of the brainwith a resolution and ability that was never before available,and essentially learn how to reconstruct,and maybe even re-engineer,or backwards engineer, the brainso we can better understand pathology, disease and therapy.We can look inside with real time fMRI — in the brain at real time.And by understanding these sorts of processes and these sorts of connections,we&#39;re going to understand the effects of medication or meditationand better personalize and make effective, for example,psychoactive drugs.
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:用于这些研究的扫描器变得更小，更便宜，更便携。来自这种研究的数据爆炸几乎真的成为一种挑战。今天的扫描占用了大约800本书的空间，或者20GB。这种扫描在几年之内将会是1TB，或者80万本书。你怎样利用这些信息？让我们从个案分析。我不会问在这里谁做过结肠镜检查，但是如果你年过50，是时候做结肠镜检查了。你怎么能避免结肠镜的尖端呢？现在有一种虚拟结肠镜检查。比较这两张图，现在作为一个放射学家，你可以浏览你病人的结肠用人工智能协助，确定潜在的，像你这里看到的，这是一个损伤。哦，我们可能漏掉它，但是在放射学上用人工智能，我们能找到以前漏掉的损伤。这也许会鼓励人们做结肠镜检查以前人们反而不愿意做它。
en:The scanners for these are getting small, less expensive and more portable.And this sort of data explosion available from theseis really almost becoming a challenge.The scan of today takes up about 800 books, or 20 gigabytes.The scan in a couple of years will be one terabyte, or 800,000 books.How do you leverage that information?Let&#39;s get personal. I won&#39;t ask who here&#39;s had a colonoscopy,but if you&#39;re over age 50, it&#39;s time for your screening colonoscopy.How would you like to avoid the pointy end of the stick?Well now there&#39;s essentially a virtual colonoscopy.Compare those two pictures, and now as a radiologist,you can essentially fly through your patient&#39;s colonand, augmenting that with artificial intelligence,identify potentially, as you see here, a lesion.Oh, we might have missed it, but using A.I. on top of radiology,we can find lesions that were missed before.And maybe this will encourage people to get colonoscopiesthat wouldn&#39;t have otherwise.
时间： 5:09
zh-cn:这是一个根本变化的例子。我们转到集成了生物医学，信息技术，无线网络的交互应用，我想说，现在是移动电话—数字化医学的时代。因此甚至我的听诊器现在也是数字化的。当然，它有个应用程序。明显我们正走向分析仪时代。因此手持式超声机基本上超越并取代了听诊器。目前的价位—以前是10万欧元或者几十万美元—现在大约5000美元，我就能买得起一个非常强大的诊断装置。把这个装置和电子医疗记录结合起来—在美国，电子化仍然少于百分之二十。在荷兰，我想这数据要多于百分之八十。
en:And this is an example of this paradigm shift.We&#39;re moving to this integration of biomedicine, information technology,wireless and, I would say, mobile now — this era of digital medicine.So even my stethoscope is now digital.And of course, there&#39;s an app for that.We&#39;re moving, obviously, to the era of the tricorder.So the handheld ultrasoundis basically surpassing and supplanting the stethoscope.These are now at a price pointof — what used to be 100,000 euros or a couple of hundred-thousand dollars —for about 5,000 dollars, I can have the powerof a very powerful diagnostic device in my hand.And merging this now with the advent of electronic medical records —in the United States, we&#39;re still less than 20 percent electronic.Here in the Netherlands, I think it&#39;s more than 80 percent.
时间： 5:46
zh-cn:但是现在我们转到合并医疗数据，使它电子化，我们能够集中信息资源。现在作为一名医生，我可以从任何地方查看我的病人的数据仅通过我的手机。当然，如今我们处在iPad，甚至iPad2时代。上个月首个FDA应用程序证实可以让放射专家在这些设备上直接读图。可以确定的说，今天的医生，包括我自己，完全依赖这些设备。正如你们大约一个月前看到的，来自IBM的沃特森在“危险”中打败了2位冠军。因此我想让你们想像当我们在未来几年内当我们开始采用这种基于云端的信息当我们真正地有了人工智能医生来利用我们的大脑连接去做决定和诊断在一个前所未有的技术水平上。如今，在很多情况下你们已经不需要去看医生。只有大约20%情况下真的需要看医生。我们正处在虚拟看病时代—从通过某种Skype视频语聊式的“American Well&quot; 看病，到思科研制的非常复杂的健康诊断系统。
en:But now that we&#39;re switching to merging medical data,making it available electronically,we can crowd source that information,and now as a physician, I can access my patients&#39; data from wherever I amjust through my mobile device.And now, of course, we&#39;re in the era of the iPad, even the iPad 2.And just last month the first FDA-approved applicationwas approved to allow radiologiststo do actual reading on these sorts of devices.So certainly, the physicians of today, including myself,are completely reliable on these devices.And as you saw just about a month ago,Watson from IBM beat the two champions in &quot;Jeopardy.&quot;So I want you to imagine when in a couple of years,when we&#39;ve started to apply this cloud-based information,when we really have the A.I. physician and leverage our brains to connectivityto make decisions and diagnosticsat a level never done.Already today, you don&#39;t need to go to your physician in many cases.Only for about 20 percent of actual visits do you have to lay hands on the patient.We&#39;re now in the era of virtual visits —from sort of the Skype-type visits you can do with American Well,to Cisco that&#39;s developed a very complex health presence system.
时间： 6:42
zh-cn:这与给你提供健康保健医师之间的交流能力是有所不同的。如今我们这些交流能力甚至正在被这些技术设备又增强了。这是我的朋友杰西卡寄给我的她头部裂伤的照片因此她不用来急诊室—我可以通过看照片做诊断。或者我们也许能利用今天的游戏技术，比如微软Kinect，使其能进行诊断，比如，诊断中风，用简单的移动检测，用几百元的设备。我们实际上现在能用机器人诊断病人—这是RP7；如果我是一个血液病专家，去另一个诊所，或医院。如果现在在家里有一整套工具，这些工具会帮助我们增强彼此的交流。想像一下我们已经有了无线网络体重计。你可以站在体重计上。你可以用微博把你的体重告知朋友，他们能让你保持身材。
en:The ability to interact with your health care provider is different.And these are being augmented even by our devices again today.Here my friend Jessica sent me a picture of her head lacerationso I can save her a trip to the emergency room — I can do some diagnostics that way.Or might we be able to leverage today&#39;s gaming technology,like the Microsoft Kinect,and hack that to enable diagnostics, for example,in diagnosing stroke,using simple motion detection, using hundred-dollar devices.We can actually now visit our patients robotically —this is the RP7; if I&#39;m a hematologist,visit another clinic, visit a hospital.These will be augmented by a whole suite of tools actually in the home now.So imagine we already have wireless scales.You can step on the scale.You can Tweet your weight to your friends, and they can keep you in line.
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:我们有无线网络血压计。一整套技术正在整合在一起。所以我们不用戴这些分离的装置，我们可以把它们放在一个简单的小片上。斯坦福的同事发明了iRhythm—在价格上远远低于以前的技术但有效率得多。现在我们处在量化自我的时代。人们可以买几百元的装置，像这个小FitBit。我可以计算出我的步数和热量消耗。我能够每天都知道了解这数据。我可以和朋友或医生分享这些数据。这些表可以测量心律，叫做Zeo睡眠监测仪，一整套工具能让你受益并了解你自己的健康。
en:We have wireless blood pressure cuffs.A whole gamut of these technologies are being put together.So instead of wearing these kludgy devices, we can put on a simple patch.This was developed by colleagues at Stanford, called the iRhythm —completely supplants the prior technology at a much lower price pointwith much more effectivity.Now we&#39;re also in the era, today, of quantified self.Consumers now can buy basically hundred-dollar devices,like this little FitBit.I can measure my steps, my caloric outtake.I can get insight into that on a daily basis.I can share that with my friends, with my physician.There&#39;s watches coming out that will measure your heart rate, the Zeo sleep monitors,a whole suite of tools that can enable you to leverageand have insight into your own health.
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:在我们开始整合信息时，我们会更好的了解用它做什么和怎么更好的了解我们自己的病理，健康和福利。现在有镜子可以测量你的脉搏率。我要说，在将来，我们将有穿在衣服里的装置，全天候检测我们的身体。就像我们现在车里用的OnStar系统，你的红灯会亮起来—它虽然不会说“检查发动机”。它将会是“检查身体”灯，亮起来就得小心。也许几年之后，你照镜子的时候它就会诊断你。（笑声）对于你们中在家带小孩的，你会觉得无线网络尿布会帮你大忙。。。我认为有比你需要的多得多的信息。但是会是这里。
en:And as we start to integrate this information,we&#39;re going to know better what to do with it and how better to have insightinto our own pathologies, health and wellness.There&#39;s even mirrors today that can pick up your pulse rate.And I would argue, in the future, we&#39;ll have wearable devices in our clothes,monitoring ourselves 24/7.And just like we have the OnStar system in cars,your red light might go on — it won&#39;t say &quot;check engine&quot; though.It&#39;s going to be &quot;check your body&quot; light,and go in and get it taken care of.Probably in a few years, you&#39;ll check into your mirrorand it&#39;s going to be diagnosing you.(Laughter)For those of you with kiddos at home,how would you like to have the wireless diaper that supports your ...too much information, I think, than you might need.But it&#39;s going to be here.
时间： 8:33
zh-cn:现在我们已经听了太多技术和连接，我认为一些技术将会使我们和病人联系得更好，节约更多的时间，实际上增进医学交流中重要的人与人之间的交互，这些技术都能增强这些交流。现在我们在某种程度上谈过了与患者的增进交流。那与医生的增进交流呢？我们正处在超能医生时代他们能进入身体内部用机器人做手术，如今成为现实，在过去这是不可能完成的即使在5年前。现在这种技术被多重技术所增强就像增强现实一样。医生能通过镜头看到患者身体内部，肿瘤在哪里，血管在哪里。这可以和决策支持合并在一起。例如，纽约的一个医生能帮助阿姆斯特丹的另一个医生做手术。我们正处在一个叫做NOTES的真正无疤手术时代，机器人的内窥镜能穿过胃部切除胆囊全程都是机器人化无疤方式。这就叫做NOTES，这就是—基本无疤手术，通过机器人手术来实现。
en:Now we&#39;ve heard a lot today about new technology and connection.And I think some of these technologieswill enable us to be more connected with our patients,and take more timeand actually do the important human touch elements of medicine,as augmented by these sorts of technologies.Now we&#39;ve talked about augmenting the patient, to some degree.How about augmenting the physician?We&#39;re now in the era of super-enabling the surgeonwho can now go inside the bodyand do things with robotic surgery, which is here today,at a level that was not really possibleeven five years ago.Now this is being augmented with further layers of technologylike augmented reality.So the surgeon can see inside the patient, through their lens,where the tumor is, where the blood vessels are.This can be integrated with decisions support.A surgeon in New York can be helping a surgeon in Amsterdam, for example.And we&#39;re entering an eraof really, truly scarless surgery called NOTES,where the robotic endoscope can come out the stomachand pull out that gallbladderall in a scarless way and robotically.And this is called NOTES, and this is coming —basically scarless surgery,as mediated by robotic surgery.
时间： 9:30
zh-cn:现如今控制其他元素会怎么样呢？对于残疾人—半身不遂—这是大脑-计算机交互时代，或者叫BCI，在大脑皮层运动区放置芯片对四肢瘫痪者他们能够控制一个遥控器或者一个轮椅或者，最终，一个机器手臂。这些装置变得越来越小可以植入越来越多的患者体内。虽然仍在临床实验阶段，但是设想当我们能连接这些技术，例如，令人惊叹的仿生学假肢，像迪安·卡门和他的同事们所设计的DEKA手臂，它有17度的移动和灵活度能够让失去一个肢体的人有更高水平的灵活和控制度比起他们过去曾有过的手臂。
en:Now how about controlling other elements?For those who have disabilities — the paraplegic —there&#39;s the era of brain-computer interface, or BCI,where chips have been put on the motor cortexof completely quadriplegic patientsand they can control a curser or a wheelchair or, eventually, a robotic arm.And these devices are getting smallerand going into more and more of these patients.Still in clinical trials, but imagine when we can connect these,for example, to the amazing bionic limb,such as the DEKA Arm built by Dean Kamen and colleagues,which has 17 degrees of motion and freedomand can allow the person who&#39;s lost a limbto have much higher levels of dexterity or controlthan they&#39;ve had in the past.
时间：10:05
zh-cn:我们实际上真正进入了可穿用的机器人时代。如果你没有失去一个肢体—比方说，你有过中风—你可以穿用这些假肢。或者如果你是一个半身不遂患者—像我拜访过的在伯克利仿生学实验室工作的同事们—他们发明了电子腿eLEGS。我上周拍了这段视频。这是一个半身不遂患者正在走路通过穿上这些盔甲。如果不穿这些盔甲他完全得依靠轮椅。现在是可穿用机器人时代的早期。我认为通过采用这些技术，我们能够改变残疾的定义在某些情况下成为超常或者超能。这是艾米·马林斯，在小时候她失去了下肢，休·贺尔，麻省理工的教授在一次攀岩事故中失去了肢体。现在他们可以比我们正常人爬得更好，移动得更快，以不同的姿势游泳通过修复手术。
en:So we&#39;re really entering the era of wearable robotics actually.If you haven&#39;t lost a limb — you&#39;ve had a stroke, for example —you can wear these augmented limbs.Or if you&#39;re a paraplegic — like I&#39;ve visited the folks at Berkley Bionics —they&#39;ve developed eLEGS.I took this video last week. Here&#39;s a paraplegic patient actually walkingby strapping on these exoskeletons.He&#39;s otherwise completely wheelchair-bound.And now this is the early era of wearable robotics.And I think by leveraging these sorts of technologies,we&#39;re going to change the definition of disabilityto in some cases be superability, or super-enabling.This is Aimee Mullins, who lost her lower limbs as a young child,and Hugh Herr, who&#39;s a professor at MITwho lost his limbs in a climbing accident.And now both of these can climb better, move faster, swim differentlywith their prosthetics than us normal-abled persons.
时间：10:47
zh-cn:其他的指数技术怎么样呢？很明显肥胖趋势朝错误的方向指数发展，包括巨额支出。但是在医学上这种趋势正在指数减少。有几个例子：我们现在处在“奇异旅程”时代，iPill。你可以吞下这个完全集成的装置。它能在你的消化道里拍照片，当它通过你的消化道的时候帮助你诊断和治疗。我们感兴趣更小的微型机器人将会最终自动通过你的消化系统能做到医生做不到的事情用一种痛苦少得多的方式。有时这些装置也许可以在你的消化系统自行组装从而增强其使用价值。
en:Now how about other exponentials?Clearly the obesity trend is exponentially going in the wrong direction,including with huge costs.But the trend in medicine actually is to get exponentially smaller.So a few examples: we&#39;re now in the eraof &quot;Fantastic Voyage,&quot; the iPill.You can swallow this completely integrated device.It can take pictures of your GI system,help diagnose and treat as it moves through your GI tract.We get into even smaller micro-robotsthat will eventually autonomously move through your system againand be able to do things that surgeons can&#39;t doin a much less invasive manner.Sometimes these might self-assemble in your GI systemand be augmented in that reality.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:对于心脏手术，起搏器正变得更容易放置，因此你不需要训练一个介入心脏医师去放置它们。它们将会被你的手机遥控，你可以去任何地方并远程遥控。这些装置正在被变得更小。这是一个Medtronic制作的样品，比一分硬币还小。人工视网膜的功能是把光线集中在眼球后面从而让失明者恢复视力。虽然仍在早期试验阶段，但是有很好的前景。这些技术将会是革命性的。对于我们中的那些视力有问题的人，有了这些辅助生活的隐形眼镜会怎样呢？用蓝牙，无线网络—投射图像到你的眼球上。如果你不能保持节食，一些图像也许会有助于提醒你食物里有多少热量。
en:On the cardiac side, pacemakers are getting smallerand much easier to placeso you don&#39;t need to train an interventional cardiologist to place them.And they&#39;re going to be wirelessly telemetered again to your mobile devicesso you can go places and be monitored remotely.These are shrinking even further.Here&#39;s one that&#39;s in prototyping by Medtronic that&#39;s smaller than a penny.Artificial retinas, the ability to put these arrays on the back of the eyeballand allow the blind to see.Again, in early trials, but moving into the future.These are going to be game changing.Or for those of us who are sighted,how about having the assisted-living contact lens?BlueTooth, WiFi available — beams back images to your eye.Now if you have trouble maintaining your diet,it might help to have some extra imageryto remind you how many calories are going to be coming at you.
时间：12:03
zh-cn:让病理学家能用他们的手机在显微水平观察把数据放回云端信息来做更好的诊断会怎样？实际上，整个实验医学时代完全变了。我们能利用微流体，像斯坦福的Steve Quake公司制造的芯片。微流体能替代整个实验室的技术员。把它放在一个芯片上，能做几千个测试在世界任何地方都可以做。这将真正地从技术上获益那些农村和保障不发达地区能让过去上千块的测试减到几分钱在护理方面上讲。如果在这条小路上走得稍微远一点，我们将来到纳米医学时代，能将装置做得超小小到我们可以设计血红细胞或者微型机器人来监测我们的血液系统或免疫系统，或者甚至清除动脉里的血栓。
en:How about enabling the pathologist to use their cell phone againto see at a microscopic leveland to lumber that data back to the cloud and make better diagnostics?In fact, the whole era of laboratory medicineis completely changing.We can now leverage microfluidics,like this chip made by Steve Quake at Stanford.Microfluidics can replace an entire lab of technicians.Put it on a chip, enable thousands of tests to be doneat the point of care, anywhere in the world.And this is really going to leverage technologyto the rural and the under-servedand enable what used to be thousand-dollar tests to be done at penniesand at the point of care.If we go down the small pathway a little bit farther,we&#39;re entering the era of nanomedicine,the ability to make devices super smallto the point where we can design red blood cellsor microrobots that will monitor our blood system or immune system,or even those that might clear out the clots from our arteries.
时间：12:48
zh-cn:如果指数更加便宜会怎样？在医学领域，这种便宜不是我们通常认为的那样，而是10MB硬盘过去3400美元—指数便宜。在基因组学，基因组价值约10亿美元10年前当第一个基因组出现的时候。我们现在基本上可以1000美元买到。也许今后一两年，100美元的基因组会出现。我们能用100美元的基因组做什么呢?不久以后我们可以进行上百万的测试。那就是当它变得有趣的时候，当我们开始集中信息资源的时候。我们进入了真正的个人化医学时代—在正确的时间为正确的人制造正确的药—而不是像现在我们这样，给每个人同样的药物—一种药物治疗的混乱，对你个人不一定有效。很多不同的公司正在利用这些方法。
en:Now how about exponentially cheaper?Not something we usually think about in the era of medicine,but hard disks used to be 3,400 dollars for 10 megabytes — exponentially cheaper.In genomics now,the genome cost about a billion dollarsabout 10 years ago when the first one came out.We&#39;re now approaching essentially a thousand-dollar genome —probably next year to two years, probably a hundred-dollar genome.What are we going to do with hundred-dollar genomes?And soon we&#39;ll have millions of these tests available.And that&#39;s when it gets interesting, when we start to crowdsource that information.And we enter the era of true personalized medicine —the right drug for the right person at the right time —instead of what we&#39;re doing today, which is the same drug for everybody —sort of blockbuster drug medications,medications which don&#39;t work for you, the individual.And many, many different companies are working on leveraging these approaches.
时间：13:29
zh-cn:我会给你一个简单的例子，还是来自23andMe。我的数据表明我已经达到平均风险系数对于黄斑病变，一种失明病。但是如果我把同样的数据上传到deCODEme，比如我能看到我得2型糖尿病的风险指数。我现在差不多有2倍的风险得2型糖尿病。例如我也许想看到午饭的时候吃多少甜点。这也许能改变我的行为。利用我基因测试学的知识—我的基因怎样调整，我的药物作用是什么和我需要什么将变得越来越重要，在个人和患者手中的时候，将使得可用的药物选择和服用更好。
en:And I&#39;ll also show you a simple example, from 23andMe again.My data indicates that I&#39;ve got about average riskfor developing macular degeneration, a kind of blindness.But if I take that same data, upload it to deCODEme,I can look at my risk for sample type 2 diabetes.I&#39;m at almost twice the risk for type 2 diabetes.I might want to watch how much dessert I have at the lunch break for example.It might change my behavior.Leveraging my knowledge of my pharmacogenomics —how my genes modulate, what my drugs do and what doses I needare going to become increasingly important,and once in the hands of the individual and the patient,will make better drug dosing and selection available.
时间：14:00
zh-cn:所以不仅是基因，有多种因素—我们的习惯，我们的环境。上次医生问你住在哪里是什么时间？风土医学：你住在哪里，你接触过什么能极大影响你的健康。我们能抓住这些信息。因此基因组学，蛋白组学，环境，所有数据涌向我们作为个体人和医生们。我们怎样管理它们呢？我们正在进入系统医学或者系统生物学时代，我们能开始集成这些信息。通过这些式样，例如，在我们的血液中一个测试中有10000个生物标记，我们能看这些小的式样在非常早期发现疾病。这个领域的创始人，李·胡德叫这种方法为P4医学。我们将能预测；我们能知道我们可能会怎样。我们能预防；这种预防性可以个人化；更重要的是，它将变得共享。虽然一些网站像Patients Like Me，微软HealthVault或者谷歌Health可以管理数据，用共享的方式利用数据将变得越来越重要。
en:So again, it&#39;s not just genes, it&#39;s multiple details —our habits, our environmental exposure.When was the last time your physician asked you where you&#39;ve lived?Geomedicine: where you&#39;ve lived, what you&#39;ve been exposed to,can dramatically affect your health.We can capture that information.So genomics, proteomics, the environment,all this data streaming at us individually and us, as poor physicians,how do we manage it?Well we&#39;re now entering the era of systems medicine, or systems biology,where we can start to integrate all of this information.And by looking at the patterns, for example, in our bloodof 10,000 biomarkers in a single test,we can start to look at these little patternsand detect disease at a much earlier stage.This has been called by Lee Hood, the father of the field,P4 medicine.We&#39;re going to be predictive; we&#39;re going to know what you&#39;re likely to have.We can be preventative; that prevention can be personalized;and more importantly, it&#39;s going to become increasingly participatory.Through websites like Patients Like Meor managing your data on Microsoft HealthVault or Google Health,leveraging this together in participatory waysis going to become increasingly important.
时间：14:54
zh-cn:我将以指数地更好前景来做结束。我们会得到更好更有效的治疗。如今我们通常通过吃药治疗高血压。如果我们用一种新装置敲打神经血管帮助调节血压一次治疗就能治愈高血压。这是做这种治疗的一种新装置。它应该能在一两年内投放市场。更具目标性的癌症治疗会怎样呢？对，我是肿瘤学家我不得不说大多数我们开的药实际上是毒药。我们在斯坦福和其他地方学到我们可以发现癌症干细胞，可能是癌症复发的真正原因。如果你把癌症看作一个种子，我们通常能够去除这个种子。它好像萎缩了，但它经常又重新复发。所以我们正在去除错误的目标体。癌症干细胞仍存在，肿瘤能在几个月或几年后重新长出来。我们现在学会了鉴定癌症干细胞作为鉴定目标体来进行长期治疗。我们正在进入个人化肿瘤学时代，利用汇集所有数据的能力，分析肿瘤并提出来针对每一个患者而采用的一个真正的，明确的鸡尾酒疗法。
en:So I&#39;ll finish up with exponentially better.We&#39;d like to get therapies better and more effective.Now today we treat high blood pressure mostly with pills.What if we take a new deviceand knock out the nerve vessels that help mediate blood pressureand in a single therapy to cure hypertension?This is a new device that is essentially doing that.It should be on the market within a year or two.How about more targeted therapies for cancer?Right, I&#39;m an oncologistand I have to say most of what we give is actually poison.We&#39;ve learned at Stanford and other placesthat we can discover cancer stem cells,the ones that seem to be really responsible for disease relapse.So if you think of cancer as a weed,we often can whack the weed away.It seems to shrink, but it often comes back.So we&#39;re attacking the wrong target.The cancer stem cells remain,and the tumor can return months or years later.We&#39;re now learning to identify the cancer stem cellsand identify those as targets and go for the long-term cure.And we&#39;re entering the era of personalized oncology,the ability to leverage all of this data together,analyze the tumor and come up witha real, specific cocktail for the individual patient.
时间：15:51
zh-cn:最后我会讲讲再生医学。我对干细胞研究很多—胚胎干细胞尤其强大。我们有遍布我们身体的成体干细胞。我们把这些干细胞用于骨髓移植领域。杰龙去年开始第一次尝试用人类的胚胎干细胞治疗脊髓疾病。仍在试验阶段，但是不断进展。我们已经应用成体干细胞在临床试验大约15年了在不同的课题，尤其是心血管病。我们取出自己的骨髓细胞治疗心脏病人，我们可以看到心脏功能改善了并且存活率提高了在心脏病发作后用我们自己的骨髓细胞。
en:Now I&#39;ll close with regenerative medicine.So I&#39;ve studied a lot about stem cells —embryonic stem cells are particularly powerful.We also have adult stem cells throughout our body.We use those in my field of bone marrow transplantation.Geron, just last year, started the first trialusing human embryonic stem cellsto treat spinal cord injuries.Still a Phase I trial, but evolving.We&#39;ve been actually using adult stem cellsnow in clinical trials for about 15 yearsto approach a whole range of topics, particularly in cardiovascular disease.We take our own bone marrow cellsand treat a patient with a heart attack,we can see much improved heart function and actually better survivalusing our own bone marrow drive cells after a heart attack.
时间：16:26
zh-cn:我发明了一种装置叫骨髓采集器MarrowMiner，一种温和得多的收集骨髓的方式。它已经被FDA认证，将会在一两年内投放市场。希望你能重视这种装置它沿着患者的身体曲线获取患者的骨髓，以前需要200次穿刺，现在在局部麻醉的情况下只要一次穿刺。
en:I invented a device called the MarrowMiner,a much less invasive way for harvesting bone marrow.It&#39;s now been FDA approved,and it&#39;ll hopefully be on the market in the next year or so.Hopefully you can appreciate the device therecurving through the patient&#39;s body and removing the patient&#39;s bone marrow,instead of with 200 punctures, with just a single puncture under local anesthesia.
时间：16:41
zh-cn:但是干细胞治疗的前景会怎样？如果你考虑一下，身体里的每个细胞有同样的DNA在你还是胚胎的时候就形成了。我们现在能重新构造你的皮肤细胞就像一个多能的胚胎干细胞利用这种技术可能治疗同一个患者的多个器官—制造你自己个人化的干细胞系。我认为这将是你自己干细胞库的新时代把你自己的心肌细胞存放在冰箱中，还可以是肌肉细胞和神经细胞在你将来需要它们的时候用。我们现在集成这些技术作为一整个细胞工程学时代。集成指数技术对于3D器官复制—用细胞替代墨水最终重建一个3D器官。
en:But where is stem cell therapy really going?If you think about it, every cell in your body has the same DNAas you had when you were an embryo.We can now reprogram your skin cellsto actually act like a pluripotent embryonic stem celland to utilize those potentially to treat multiple organs in that same patient —making your own personalized stem cell lines.And I think they&#39;ll be a new era of your own stem cell bankingto have in the freezer your own cardiac cells,myocytes and neural cellsto use them in the future, should you need them.And we&#39;re integrating this now with a whole era of cellular engineering,and integrating exponential technologiesfor essentially 3D organ printing —replacing the ink with cellsand essentially building and reconstructing a 3D organ.
时间：17:19
zh-cn:这是未来的展望；仍然在初始阶段。但是我认为，作为指数技术集成，这是一个例子。近期，当你考虑技术趋势怎样影响健康和医学，我们正进入小型化分散化和个性化时代。我认为把这些特性结合在一起，如果我们能开始思考怎样了解和利用这些技术，我们将会使患者恢复地更好，医生更有能力，增强福利防患于未然。因为作为医生我知道，如果某人在患病初期找到我，我很高兴—我们通常能治愈他们。但是经常太晚了，比方说癌症3期或者4期。通过集成这些技术，我认为我们将进入一个新时代我愿意叫它零阶段医学。作为一名癌症医生，我期待失业。
en:That&#39;s where things are going to head — still very early days.But I think, as integration of exponential technologies,this is the example.So in close, as you think about technology trendsand how to impact health and medicine,we&#39;re entering an era of miniaturization,decentralization and personalization.And I think by pulling these things together,if we can start to think about how to understand and leverage these,we&#39;re going to empower the patient,enable the doctor, enhance wellnessand begin to cure the well before they get sick.Because I know as a doctor, if someone comes to me with Stage I disease,I&#39;m thrilled — we can often cure them.But often it&#39;s too late and it&#39;s Stage III or IV cancer, for example.So by leveraging these technologies together,I think we&#39;ll enter a new erathat I like to call Stage 0 medicine.And as a cancer doctor, I&#39;m looking forward to being out of a job.
时间：18:02
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thanks very much.
时间：18:05
zh-cn:主持人：谢谢。谢谢。
en:Host: Thank you. Thank you.
时间：18:07
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：18:09
zh-cn:鞠躬。鞠躬。
en:Take a bow. Take a bow.
