时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是一名癌症儿科医生也是斯坦福大学的干细胞研究者。我临床研究的重点一直是骨髓移植。去年吉尔·伯特· 泰勒的演示启发了我，今天我没有带来人类的大脑，却带来了一升骨髓。事实上，它用来挽救成千上万人的生命。他们中大多数人患有白血病和淋巴瘤等晚期恶性肿瘤或者其他的疾病。
en:So I am a pediatric cancer doctorand stem-cell researcher at Stanford Universitywhere my clinical focus has been bone marrow transplantation.Now, inspired by Jill Bolte Taylor last year,I didn&#39;t bring a human brain,but I did bring a liter of bone marrow.And bone marrow is actually what we useto save the lives of tens of thousands of patients,most of whom have advanced malignancies like leukemia and lymphomaand some other diseases.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:几年前，我在斯坦福大学作骨髓移植研究员。在手术室，我给鲍勃做手术。他是一名骨髓捐赠志愿者。为了挽救一个白血病儿童，我们要横穿美国派送他的骨髓。那么，目前我们怎样采集骨髓呢？噢，我们有专业的手术室团队，全身麻醉，护士和我一起操刀的另一名医生。鲍勃在手术台上，我们用这种小针头，你知道的，不是特别大的。我们通常要做的是，把这个针头穿过软体组织，在硬骨穿个孔，到臀部里面—这是个医学术语（tuchus臀部）—用针管抽取大约10毫升骨髓出来，每次一个针管。我递给护士针管，她收集骨髓到一个錫袋。然后再递给我针管。我们如此重复通常要200次左右。手术结束后我胳膊酸痛，手上都长了老茧。更不用说鲍勃，他的屁股看上去更像是这个，瑞士奶酪的样子。
en:So, a few years ago, I&#39;m doing my transplant fellowship at Stanford.I&#39;m in the operating room. We have Bob here,who is a volunteer donor.We&#39;re sending his marrow across the country to save the lifeof a child with leukemia.So actually how do we harvest this bone marrow?Well we have a whole O.R. team, general anesthesia, nurses,and another doctor across from me.Bob&#39;s on the table, and we take this sort of small needle,you know, not too big.And the way we do this is we basicallyplace this through the soft tissue,and kind of punch it into the hard bone,into the tuchus — that&#39;s a technical term —and aspirate about 10 mls of bone marrow out,each time, with a syringe.And hand it off to the nurse. She squirts it into a tin.Hands it back to me. And we do that again and again.About 200 times usually.And by the end of this my arm is sore, I&#39;ve got a callus on my hand,let alone Bob,whose rear end looks something more like this,like Swiss cheese.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:你知道的，这个方法已经40年都没有改变了。可能有更好的方法去采集。我就想到一个微创的办法。这个新发明就是骨髓采集器。这就是它。它的工作原理如下。
en:So I&#39;m thinking, you know, this procedure hasn&#39;t changed in about 40 years.And there is probably a better way to do this.So I thought of a minimally invasive approach,and a new device that we call the Marrow Miner.This is it.And the Marrow Miner, the way it works is shown here.
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:我们通常的患者一看就知。不用多次穿刺，采集器只需一次，就进入到的屁股前面和后面。这种可弯曲的，有动力的中空管子并带有特殊金属环状顶端，它能够进入骨髓海绵状的部分，并沿着臀部的轮廓而移动采集。所以，你通过一个穿孔就可以非常快地采集，和吸取大量的骨髓。你可以多次同样的操作只是不一样的路线。不需要机械操作。这样，非常快，鲍勃只需一个穿刺，局部麻醉，不需入院，就可得到他的骨髓。
en:Our standard see-through patient.Instead of entering the bone dozens of times,we enter just once, into the front of the hip or the back of the hip.And we have a flexible, powered catheterwith a special wire loop tip that stays inside the crunchy part of the marrowand follows the contours of the hip, as it moves around.So it enables you to very rapidly aspirate,or suck out, rich bone marrow very quickly through one hole.We can do multiple passes through that same entry.No robots required.And, so, very quickly, Bob can just get one puncture, local anesthesia,and do this harvest as an outpatient.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:我得到斯坦福很小的资金资助 然后做了一些模型。渐渐的展示这个发明。我们团队开发了这一技术。后来，我们临床试验两个大型动物，和猪的应用研究。我们惊讶地发现，比起普通仪器来，借助骨髓采集器，我们不仅采集了骨髓，还得到了10倍多的活体干细胞。去年美国食品和药品管理局刚刚批准了这个发明。
en:So I did a few prototypes. I got a small little grant at Stanford.And played around with this a little bit.And our team members developed this technology.And eventually we got two large animals, and pig studies.And we found, to our surprise, that we not only got bone marrow out,but we got 10 times the stem cell activityin the marrow from the Marrow Miner, compared to the normal device.This device was just FDA approved in the last year.
时间： 2:40
zh-cn:你可以看这个幸存病人的例子，采集器沿着弯曲的路线转动。它是从同一个穿孔，同一个病人，两条纹路采集。这样病人只需局部麻醉，不用入院。比起普通方法，我们又一次从同一个病人身上采集了3至6倍左右多的干细胞。
en:Here is a live patient. You can see it following the flexible curves around.There will be two passes here, in the same patient, from the same hole.This was done under local anesthesia, as an outpatient.And we got, again, about three to six times more stem cellsthan the standard approach done on the same patient.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:那么，你为什么要在乎呢？因为骨髓是干细胞非常丰富的来源。你们都知道胚胎干细胞。他们有很大的潜力，但是还没有进入临床试验阶段。成人干细胞却遍布全身，包括骨髓里的造血干细胞。它一直是用来干细胞治疗的方法有40多年了。在过去的十年，大量激增用骨髓干细胞去治疗患者的其他疾病例如心脏病，血管疾病，整形外科，细胞组织工程，甚至在神经病学治疗帕金森综合症和糖尿病。
en:So why should you care? Bone marrow is a very rich source of adult stem cells.You all know about embryonic stem cells.They&#39;ve got great potential but haven&#39;t yet entered clinical trials.Adult stem cells are throughout our body,including the blood-forming stem cells in our bone marrow,which we&#39;ve been using as a form of stem-cell therapyfor over 40 years.In the last decade there&#39;s been an explosion of useof bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient&#39;s other diseasessuch as heart disease, vascular disease,orthopedics, tissue engineering,even in neurology to treat Parkinson&#39;sand diabetes.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:今年我们刚推出并投放市场的第2.0代骨髓采集器。希望是，这项发明采集更多的干细胞。它得到更好的应用。鼓励更多的人去申请当骨髓捐赠者，能派上用场挽救生命。当你年轻和健康时，你也可以储存你自己的骨髓干细胞，一旦你需要，可以随时使用。最后，请看我们骨髓移植康复者的照片。每年在斯坦福大学我们一起聚会。希望未来这项技术可以拯救更多的病人。谢谢。
en:We&#39;ve just come out, we&#39;re commercializing, this year,generation 2.0 of the Marrow Miner.The hope is that this gets more stem cells out,which translates to better outcomes.It may encourage more people to sign up to bepotential live-saving bone marrow donors.It may even enable you to bankyour own marrow stem cells, when you&#39;re younger and healthier,to use in the future should you need it.And ultimately — and here&#39;s a picture of ourbone marrow transplant survivors,who come together for a reunion each year at Stanford.Hopefully this technology will let ushave more of these survivors in the future.Thanks.
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
