时间： 0:11
zh-cn:（滴答声）我出生时双眼都有眼癌，视网膜细胞瘤。我右眼在我7个月大时移除。13个月大时，左眼移除。我从手术中醒来做的第一件事就是爬出我的婴儿床，开始在加强监护婴儿室东跑西跑，可能在寻找那个把我弄成这样的人。（笑声）显然，在婴儿室东跑西跑对于没有双眼的我来说并不是难题。难题是不被抓住。
en:(Clicking)I was born with bilateral retinoblastoma,retinal cancer.My right eye was removedat seven months of age.I was 13 monthswhen they removed my left eye.The first thing I didupon awakening from that last surgerywas to climb out of my criband begin wandering aroundthe intensive care nursery,probably looking for the onewho did this to me.(Laughter)Evidently, wandering around the nurserywas not a problem for me without eyes.The problem was getting caught.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:对于失明的印象远比失明本身让盲人更恐惧。想想自己对于失明的印象。当我刚上台时，想想你们的反应，或者想想你自己失明，或者爱的人将失明的景象。对于我们大多数人来说，这都是难以想象的恐怖，因为失明被认为是无知无觉的缩影，不幸地暴露在未知黑暗的残迹之中。多么富有诗意。
en:It&#39;s impressions about blindnessthat are far more threateningto blind people than the blindness itself.Think for a moment aboutyour own impressions of blindness.Think about your reactionswhen I first came onto the stage,or the prospect of your own blindness,or a loved one going blind.The terror is incomprehensibleto most of us,because blindnessis thought to epitomize ignoranceand unawareness,hapless exposure to the ravagesof the dark unknown.How poetic.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:幸运的是，我的父母没有诗意。他们很实际。他们明白：无知和恐惧仅仅是大脑精神层面的问题，并且这种想法是可以改变的。他们相信我会长大享受和其他人一样的自由与责任。用他们的话说，我会独立居住，我18岁时做到了，我将交税。谢谢（笑声）他们知道爱和恐惧的区别。面对挑战的时候，恐惧惊住了我们。他们知道失明是个巨大的挑战。我并不是在恐惧中成长。他们把我的自由看得比其他东西都重要，因为那就是爱。
en:Fortunately for me,my parents were not poetic.They were pragmatic.They understood that ignorance and fearwere but matters of the mind,and the mind is adaptable.They believed that I should grow upto enjoy the same freedomsand responsibilities as everyone else.In their own words, I would move out —which I did when I was 18 —I will pay taxes —thanks —(Laughter) —and they knew the differencebetween love and fear.Fear immobilizes usin the face of challenge.They knew that blindnesswould pose a significant challenge.I was not raised with fear.They put my freedom first before all else,because that is what love does.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:继续讲，如今我是怎么生存的？世界是个大得多的育儿室。幸运的是我有一支值得信赖的长手杖，比其他盲人的手杖更长。我称它为我的自由帮手。例如，它能阻止我不优雅的离开讲台。（笑声）我确实看到峭边。他们之前提醒我：演讲者在台上遇到过各种意外。我不介意造一个新的意外。
en:Now, moving forward,how do I manage today?The world is a much larger nursery.Fortunately, I have my trusty long cane,longer than the canesused by most blind people.I call it my freedom staff.It will keep me, for example,from making an undignified departure from the stage. (Laughter)I do see that cliff edge.They warned us earlierthat every imaginable mishaphas occurred to speakersup here on the stage.I don&#39;t care to set a new precedent.
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:但是除此之外，大家在我来到讲台的时候，听到我发出滴答声，（滴答声）用舌头发的声音。那些都是声音的反射，从所有我身边事物的表面反射回来，就像一个蝙蝠的声呐，反馈给我一些信息，就像光反馈给你们信息一样。感谢我的父母，我的大脑能够在我的视觉皮质中筑构影像，这就是我们所谓的成像系统，借助信息的结构形成图像，就像你们的大脑。我称这个过程为“闪光声呐”。我就是这样学会在失明中去看见东西，为我导航，穿过挑战性的未知黑暗，我也因此得了一个绰号“神奇蝙蝠侠”。
en:But beyond that,many of you may have heard me clickingas I came onto the stage —(Clicking) —with my tongue.Those are flashes of soundthat go out and reflectfrom surfaces all around me,just like a bat&#39;s sonar,and return to me with patterns, with pieces of information,much as light does for you.And my brain, thanks to my parents,has been activated to form imagesin my visual cortex,which we now call the imaging system,from those patterns of information,much as your brain does.I call this process flash sonar.It is how I have learned to seethrough my blindness,to navigate my journeythrough the dark unknownsof my own challenges,which has earned me the moniker&quot;the remarkable Batman.&quot;
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:我接受蝙蝠侠这个称号。蝙蝠很有型，蝙蝠侠很酷。但是我的成长教育并让我不觉得自己任何一方面有什么奇特的。我总是把自己看得和普通人一样，他们也是在挑战性的未知黑暗中自我摸索。这有很奇特吗？我不用双眼，我用的是大脑。
en:Now, Batman I will accept.Bats are cool. Batman is cool.But I was not raised to think of myselfas in any way remarkable.I have always regarded myselfmuch like anyone elsewho navigates the dark unknownsof their own challenges.Is that so remarkable?I do not use my eyes, I use my brain.
时间： 5:15
zh-cn:此时某地的某人，一定在想那的确很奇特，否则我不会在这里，但是我们思考一下，在场的所有人，正面对、或曾经面对过挑战的，举起你们的手。呼—。好的。好多手，等一下，我数一下。（滴答声）这需要一会儿。（滴答声）（笑声）好，空中好多手。一直举着。我有个主意。你们用大脑去克服挑战的人放下你们的手。好的，仍然举着手的人要挑战的是你自己。（笑声）
en:Now, someone, somewhere,must think that&#39;s remarkable,or I wouldn&#39;t be up here,but let&#39;s consider this for a moment.Everyone out therewho faces or who has everfaced a challenge,raise your hands.Whoosh. Okay.Lots of hands going up, a moment,let me do a head count.(Clicking)This will take a while.(Clicking) (Laughter)Okay, lots of hands in the air.Keep them up. I have an idea.Those of you who use your brainsto navigate these challenges,put your hands down.Okay, anyone with your hands still uphas challenges of your own. (Laughter)
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:我们都面对挑战，我们都面对未知的黑暗，大部分挑战都是这样，这也是我们的畏惧之处，对吗？但是我们都有大脑大脑让我们能够在挑战中摸索前进。
en:So we all face challenges,and we all face the dark unknown,which is endemic to most challenges,which is what most of us fear, okay?But we all have brainsthat allow us, that activate to allow usto navigate the journeythrough these challenges. Okay?
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:很好的例子：我来到这里（滴答声）他们不会告诉我，讲台在哪里。不能相信TED的工作人员。“自己找，”他们说。所以—（笑声）而且广播系统的反馈也无济于事。
en:Case in point: I came up hereand — (Clicking) — they wouldn&#39;t tell mewhere the lectern was.So you can&#39;t trust those TED folks.&quot;Find it yourself,&quot; they said.So — (Laughter)And the feedback for the P.A. systemis no help at all.
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:我要向你们展现一个挑战。你们都闭上眼睛一会儿， 好吗？你们也将学会一点闪光声呐。我会发出声响。我会我面前举着这块平板，我不会移动这块板。听一会儿。“嘘—————-”好吧，没什么特别。现在听一听我移动平板发出的一样的声响。“嘘——————”（音调时高时低）你们不了解黑暗的能量。（笑声）我情不自已。
en:So now I present to you a challenge.So if you&#39;d all close your eyesfor just a moment, okay?And you&#39;re going to learna bit of flash sonar.I&#39;m going to make a sound.I&#39;m going to hold this panel in front of me, but I&#39;m not going to move it.Just listen to the sound for a moment.Shhhhhhhhhh.Okay, nothing very interesting.Now, listen to what happensto that same exact soundwhen I move the panel.Shhhhhhhhhhh. (Pitch getting higher and lower)You do not know the powerof the dark side.(Laughter)I couldn&#39;t resist.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:好吧，继续闭着眼，你们听到差别了吗？好吧，让我们确认一下。你们的挑战是：我开始移动平板的时候，你们就要告诉我“现在”。好吗？放松。
en:Okay, now keep your eyes closedbecause, did you hear the difference?Okay. Now, let&#39;s be sure.For your challenge,you tell me, just say &quot;now&quot;when you hear the panel start to move.Okay? We&#39;ll relax into this.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:“嘘——-”
en:Shhhhhhh.
时间： 8:22
zh-cn:观众：现在。丹尼尔·基什: 很棒。睁开眼睛。就移动了几厘米，你们就注意到这种变化。你们已经感受到声呐了。你们都是了不起的瞎子。（笑声）让我们看看要是这个声呐激活过程得到更多的时间和关注。
en:Audience: Now.Daniel Kish: Good. Excellent.Open your eyes.All right. So just a few centimeters,you would notice the difference.You&#39;ve experienced sonar.You&#39;d all make great blind people.(Laughter)Let&#39;s have a look at what can happenwhen this activation processis given some time and attention.
时间： 8:50
zh-cn:（视频）Juan Ruiz: 就像你们可以用眼睛去看一样，我们可以用耳朵去看。
en:(Video) Juan Ruiz: It&#39;s likeyou guys can see with your eyesand we can see with our ears.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:男：关键不是欣赏多与少。而是从不同角度去欣赏。
en:Brian Bushway: It&#39;s not a matterof enjoying it more or less,it&#39;s about enjoying it differently.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:女：穿过了。DK:对。
en:Shawn Marsolais: It goes across.DK: Yeah.
时间： 9:05
zh-cn:女：再逐渐往下。
en:SM: And then it&#39;s graduallycoming back down again.
时间： 9:09
zh-cn:DK: 对！女：太奇妙了。我能看到汽车。圣母马利亚！
en:DK: Yes!SM: That&#39;s amazing.I can, like, see the car. Holy mother!
时间： 9:20
zh-cn:男2：我喜欢变瞎子。真诚的说，如果有机会，我不打算重见光明了。
en:J. Louchart: I love being blind.If I had the opportunity, honestly,I wouldn&#39;t go back to being sighted.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:男3：目标越大，你面对的障碍越多，在目标的另一边就是胜利。（意大利语）（掌声）
en:JR: The bigger the goal,the more obstacles you&#39;ll face,and on the other side of that goalis victory.[In Italian](Applause)
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:基什: 这些人看上去很恐惧吗？没那么恐惧。我们已经传授激活训练，给成千上万的盲人，以及各行各业的正常人，遍及40个国家。当盲人学会看见，可视的人似乎受到了启发，他们想要学会更好更清晰、不畏惧地看清他们的路，这证明了我们潜在的巨大能力，我们可以在任何黑暗和挑战中前行，发现无法想象的东西，只要我们被激活。
en:DK: Now, do these people look terrified?Not so much.We have delivered activation trainingto tens of thousands of blindand sighted people from all backgroundsin nearly 40 countries.When blind people learn to see,sighted people seem inspiredto want to learn to see their waybetter, more clearly, with less fear,because this exemplifiesthe immense capacity within us allto navigate any type of challenge,through any form of darkness,to discoveries unimaginedwhen we are activated.
时间：10:38
zh-cn:我祝愿你们拥有一个激励的旅途。
en:I wish you all a most activating journey.
时间：10:44
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：10:46
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：10:54
zh-cn:安德森: 丹尼尔，我的朋友。我知道你看得到：Ted观众的喝彩声壮观持久。谢谢你的出众演讲。关于你的世界、你所建立的内心世界，我还想问一个问题。我们认为在我们的世界中我们拥有盲人没有的事物，但是你的世界是怎样的？你有我们没有的东西吗？
en:Chris Anderson: Daniel, my friend.As I know you can see, it&#39;sa spectacular standing ovation at TED.Thank you for an extraordinary talk.Just one more question about your world,your inner world that you construct.We think that we have things in our worldthat you as a blind person don&#39;t have,but what&#39;s your world like?What do you have that we don&#39;t have?
时间：11:20
zh-cn:基什：360度视角，也就是说，我的声呐在身后和身前都看得见。在拐角处也可以管用。也可以穿过物体表面。一般而言,这是模糊的三维几何世界。我有过一名学生，现在已经成为教员了，在他失明后的几个月，他正坐在三层楼高的家里，发觉自己能听到屋子里正在进行的一切：厨房里、浴室里人们的谈话几层之外，几墙之隔的声音。他说就像拥有X射线一样的视力。
en:DK: Three hundred and sixty-degree view,so my sonar works about as wellbehind me as it does in front of me.It works around corners.It works through surfaces.Generally, it&#39;s kind of a fuzzythree-dimensional geometry.One of my students, who has nowbecome an instructor,when he lost his vision,after a few monthshe was sitting in his three story houseand he realized that he could heareverything going on throughout the house:conversations, people in the kitchen,people in the bathroom,several floors away, several walls away.He said it was somethinglike having x-ray vision.
时间：12:01
zh-cn:安德森：你会怎样描绘现在身处的地方？你怎样描绘这个现场？
en:CA: What do you picturethat you&#39;re in right now?How do you picture this theater?
时间：12:08
zh-cn:基什：坦白说，很多大声说话的人。当人们发声的时候，很有趣。当他们笑，当他们坐立不安，当他们喝水，或者擤鼻子，不管是什么，我都能听到。我听到人们的细微动作。从声呐的视角，它们都在我的注意力之内，房间的大小，观众绕讲台的曲率，房间的高度。就像我说的，环绕我的三维平面几何世界。
en:DK: Lots of loudspeakers, quite frankly.It&#39;s interesting. When people make a sound,when they laugh, when they fidget,when they take a drink or blow their noseor whatever, I hear everything.I hear every little movementthat every single person makes.None of it really escapes my attention,and then, from a sonar perspective,the size of the room, the curvature of the audience around the stage,it&#39;s the height of the room.Like I say, it&#39;s all that kind of three-dimensional surface geometryall around me.
时间：12:49
zh-cn:安德森：丹尼尔, 你的演讲很棒，帮助我们用不同的方式看世界。真诚的谢谢你。基什：谢谢。
en:CA: Well, Daniel, you have donea spectacular jobof helping us all see the worldin a different way.Thanks so much for that, truly.DK: Thank you.
时间：12:56
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
