时间： 0:11
zh-cn:由于我经常向人们解释即将到来的新科技将会多么的美妙我想既然我跟各位朋友们一起在这就让我来说说我真正的想法并试着回顾和理解这到底是如何发生的有了这些科技上的惊人进步。科技的进步似乎快到我们根本无法赶上它的脚步。
en:Because I usually take the roleof trying to explain to peoplehow wonderful the new technologiesthat are coming along are going to be,and I thought that, since I was among friends here,I would tell you what I really thinkand try to look back and try to understandwhat is really going on herewith these amazing jumps in technologythat seem so fast that we can barely keep on top of it.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:让我先从这开始一页很无趣的科技幻灯片。然后可以开始放幻灯片了。（对工作人员说）这只是我从我的文件中随机挑选出的一张。我想要你们看的并不是它的细节，而是它的总体形式。这个是我们做的关于RISC精简指令集微处理器功率与本地网路功率分析的幻灯片。有趣的是这页幻灯片就像很多我们所熟悉的幻灯片一样，是半对数曲线图上的一条直线。也就是这里的每一层，代表了性能程度大小的一级。在半对数曲线图上讨论科技，这很新鲜。这其中有点奇特。这基本上是我接下来要说的。
en:So I&#39;m going to start outby showing just one very boring technology slide.And then, so if you can just turn on the slide that&#39;s on.This is just a random slidethat I picked out of my file.What I want to show you is not so much the details of the slide,but the general form of it.This happens to be a slide of some analysis that we were doingabout the power of RISC microprocessorsversus the power of local area networks.And the interesting thing about itis that this slide,like so many technology slides that we&#39;re used to,is a sort of a straight lineon a semi-log curve.In other words, every step hererepresents an order of magnitudein performance scale.And this is a new thingthat we talk about technologyon semi-log curves.Something really weird is going on here.And that&#39;s basically what I&#39;m going to be talking about.
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:（对工作人员）麻烦开一下灯。请把灯开亮点，因为我要用张纸。为什么我们要用对数曲线描绘科技曲线呢？嗯，答案是，如果我用普通曲线画，我们说，这是年份，这是某个时间，这是我准备画的科技的某种测量值，这图看起来有点傻。就有点像是这样。而且并没有提供什么资讯。现在，如果我画，比如说，另一种技术，像是交通运输，在半对数曲线上，它看起来很蠢，会像条很平的线。但是如果出现像这种质变的情况。如果交通运输技术进步地像微处理器技术一样快的话，那，后天我就能搭一辆出租车然后在30秒内到东京。但它并没有进步得那么快。在科技发展历史中也没有任何这种自给自足，每几年程度翻倍增长的先例。
en:So, if you could bring up the lights.If you could bring up the lights higher,because I&#39;m just going to use a piece of paper here.Now why do we draw technology curvesin semi-log curves?Well the answer is, if I drew it on a normal curvewhere, let&#39;s say, this is years,this is time of some sort,and this is whatever measure of the technologythat I&#39;m trying to graph,the graphs look sort of silly.They sort of go like this.And they don&#39;t tell us much.Now if I graph, for instance,some other technology, say transportation technology,on a semi-log curve,it would look very stupid, it would look like a flat line.But when something like this happens,things are qualitatively changing.So if transportation technologywas moving along as fast as microprocessor technology,then the day after tomorrow,I would be able to get in a taxi caband be in Tokyo in 30 seconds.It&#39;s not moving like that.And there&#39;s nothing precedentedin the history of technology developmentof this kind of self-feeding growthwhere you go by orders of magnitude every few years.
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:现在我想要问的是，如果你观察这些指数曲线，它们并非永远的持续下去。事物不可能一直改变得那么快。两件事会发生，要么它会变成像这样典型的S曲线直到完全不同的情况出现。或是会变成这样。这就是所有可能。现在我是个乐观主义者，所以我觉得它很有可能就会变成这样。如果是这样，意味着我们目前所在的是过渡阶段。我们似乎在这条线上，在世界从过去到将来的转变中。所有我要问的，我一直在问自己的，就是这世界未来道路在哪？它趋向的新时代是什么样的？由于这个变化似乎非常，非常迷惑人，当我们正处于其中时。
en:Now the question that I&#39;d like to ask is,if you look at these exponential curves,they don&#39;t go on forever.Things just can&#39;t possibly keep changingas fast as they are.One of two things is going to happen.Either it&#39;s going to turn into a sort of classical S-curve like this,until something totally different comes along,or maybe it&#39;s going to do this.That&#39;s about all it can do.Now I&#39;m an optimist,so I sort of think it&#39;s probably going to do something like that.If so, that means that what we&#39;re in the middle of right nowis a transition.We&#39;re sort of on this linein a transition from the way the world used to beto some new way that the world is.And so what I&#39;m trying to ask, what I&#39;ve been asking myself,is what&#39;s this new way that the world is?What&#39;s that new state that the world is heading toward?Because the transition seems very, very confusingwhen we&#39;re right in the middle of it.
时间： 3:50
zh-cn:我小时候，在长大过程中未来就像是2000年，人们都在讨论2000年将会发生什么。现在这个会议上，大家在讨论未来，而且你能发现这未来指的还是那个“2000年”。这就是我们能达到的程度。换句话说，在我一生中未来正在逐年缩短。我想原因是我们都感觉到正在发生些什么。变化正在发生。我们都能察觉到。我们知道去考虑那未来的三、五十年已经没什么意义了，因为每件事都将如此不同以至于推测将来不再有意义。
en:Now when I was a kid growing up,the future was kind of the year 2000,and people used to talk about what would happen in the year 2000.Now here&#39;s a conferencein which people talk about the future,and you notice that the future is still at about the year 2000.It&#39;s about as far as we go out.So in other words, the future has kind of been shrinkingone year per yearfor my whole lifetime.Now I think that the reasonis because we all feelthat something&#39;s happening there.That transition is happening. We can all sense it.And we know that it just doesn&#39;t make too much senseto think out 30, 50 yearsbecause everything&#39;s going to be so differentthat a simple extrapolation of what we&#39;re doingjust doesn&#39;t make any sense at all.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:所以我要聊聊那会是怎样，我们正在经历的转变会是怎样。为达到这个目的，我得介绍一堆东西它们与科技和电脑完全无关。因为我决定理解这个的唯一方法就是回顾过去拉长时间轴去看。而我所要看的时间轴是以地球上生命的时间跨度来看。我想这幅图合理了如果你每次从几十亿年跨度来看。
en:So what I would like to talk aboutis what that could be,what that transition could be that we&#39;re going through.Now in order to do thatI&#39;m going to have to talk about a bunch of stuffthat really has nothing to dowith technology and computers.Because I think the only way to understand thisis to really step backand take a long time scale look at things.So the time scale that I would like to look at this onis the time scale of life on Earth.So I think this picture makes senseif you look at it a few billion years at a time.
时间： 5:15
zh-cn:所以如果你回溯个大概25亿年，地球这么大，贫瘠的大块石头上面浮着些化学物质。要是观察这些化学物质怎样组合的，我们开始弄明白它们怎么形成的。我想有些理论是从理解生命怎样从核糖核酸演变开始，但是我想讲一个生命的简单故事，就是，在那个时候，有一滴滴的油四处浮动，里面有各种不同化学成分组合。有些油滴里面含有特殊的化学构成这导致它们可以从外界聚集化学物质并慢慢变大。像这样的油滴又开始分化，分离。最原始的那些在某种程度上形成了细胞，这些小小的油滴。
en:So if you go backabout two and a half billion years,the Earth was this big, sterile hunk of rockwith a lot of chemicals floating around on it.And if you look at the waythat the chemicals got organized,we begin to get a pretty good idea of how they do it.And I think that there&#39;s theories that are beginning to understandabout how it started with RNA,but I&#39;m going to tell a sort of simple story of it,which is that, at that time,there were little drops of oil floating aroundwith all kinds of different recipes of chemicals in them.And some of those drops of oilhad a particular combination of chemicals in themwhich caused them to incorporate chemicals from the outsideand grow the drops of oil.And those that were like thatstarted to split and divide.And those were the most primitive forms of cells in a sense,those little drops of oil.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:但目前为止这些油滴不是真正活着的，在我们现在看来，因为每一个都是化学物质的随机合成。每分裂一次，都不是平均分布内部的化学物。所以每个油滴都有点不同。实际上，油滴不同的方式是让它们能更好地集成周围的化合物，长得更大，吸收更多，分裂更多。所以它们会活得更长，表现得更多。
en:But now those drops of oil weren&#39;t really alive, as we say it now,because every one of themwas a little random recipe of chemicals.And every time it divided,they got sort of unequal divisionof the chemicals within them.And so every drop was a little bit different.In fact, the drops that were different in a waythat caused them to be betterat incorporating chemicals around them,grew more and incorporated more chemicals and divided more.So those tended to live longer,get expressed more.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:这就有点像个很简单的生命的化学形式，但过程变得有趣是当这些油滴学会了一个提供资讯的技巧时。不知怎么用我们不能完全理解的方式，这些小油滴学会了记录资讯。它们学会把细胞形成的秘诀记录到一种特殊物质上，叫做去氧核糖核酸。也就是说，它们想出了，以这种随性的进化方式，可以写下它们基因信息的记录方式，以便这种记录方式能被复制。惊奇的是这种记录方式似乎可以保持稳定由于它25亿年前演化出来的。实际上我们，我们基因的组成就是完全一样的代码，一样的记录方式。实际上，任何生物都是用完全一样的字母和代码记录下来的。
en:Now that&#39;s sort of just a very simplechemical form of life,but when things got interestingwas when these dropslearned a trick about abstraction.Somehow by ways that we don&#39;t quite understand,these little drops learned to write down information.They learned to record the informationthat was the recipe of the cellonto a particular kind of chemicalcalled DNA.So in other words, they worked out,in this mindless sort of evolutionary way,a form of writing that let them write down what they were,so that that way of writing it down could get copied.The amazing thing is that that way of writingseems to have stayed steadysince it evolved two and a half billion years ago.In fact the recipe for us, our genes,is exactly that same code and that same way of writing.In fact, every living creature is writtenin exactly the same set of letters and the same code.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:实际上，我所做的仅是为了娱乐效果的一件事就是我们能用这个代码记录事件。我这有100微克的白粉，我尽力不让机场安检人员发现它们。（笑声）不过这里面有代码我所做的是我拿着这代码它里面有我们用来标记它的标准字母，然后我把我的名片写到一条去氧核糖核酸上再放大10到22倍。所以如果有人需要数百万份我的名片，我有足够多份给在座每个人，甚至是全世界每个人，就在这。（笑声）要是我是个自大的人，我就会把它放到病毒里散布到屋子中。
en:In fact, one of the things that I didjust for amusement purposesis we can now write things in this code.And I&#39;ve got here a little 100 micrograms of white powder,which I try not to let the security people see at airports.(Laughter)But this has in it —what I did is I took this code —the code has standard letters that we use for symbolizing it —and I wrote my business card onto a piece of DNAand amplified it 10 to the 22 times.So if anyone would like a hundred million copies of my business card,I have plenty for everyone in the room,and, in fact, everyone in the world,and it&#39;s right here.(Laughter)If I had really been a egotist,I would have put it into a virus and released it in the room.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:35
zh-cn:所以下一步是什么？记录去氧核糖核酸是有趣的一步。它导致了细胞的形成——让它们又高兴了几十亿年。不过还有个很有趣的环节事情开始变得完全不同，那就是这些细胞开始交换和交流资讯，从而形成细胞团体。我不知道你们是否知道这个，细菌实际上就可以交换去氧核糖核酸。这就是为什么，比如，演变出抗菌免疫。有些细菌知道怎么远离青霉素，然后它创造它这点去氧核糖核酸资讯，并在别的细菌中到处游走，现在我们有很多对青霉素免疫的细菌了，因为细菌会交流资讯。这样，这些交流致使群落的形成，在某种意义上，它们在同一条船上了；它们是协作的。因此它们一起幸存下来或者一起死去，也就是说如果一个群落成功了，所有群落里的个体都能复制更多，进化得更有利。
en:So what was the next step?Writing down the DNA was an interesting step.And that caused these cells —that kept them happy for another billion years.But then there was another really interesting stepwhere things became completely different,which is these cells started exchanging and communicating information,so that they began to get communities of cells.I don&#39;t know if you know this,but bacteria can actually exchange DNA.Now that&#39;s why, for instance,antibiotic resistance has evolved.Some bacteria figured out how to stay away from penicillin,and it went around sort of creating its little DNA informationwith other bacteria,and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin,because bacteria communicate.Now what this communication allowedwas communities to formthat, in some sense, were in the same boat together;they were synergistic.So they survivedor they failed together,which means that if a community was very successful,all the individuals in that communitywere repeated moreand they were favored by evolution.
时间： 9:35
zh-cn:于是，转换点到了，当这些族群很亲近时，事实上，它们聚集到一起并决定在一条去氧核糖核酸上写下整个族群的成分谱。生命中下一个有趣的阶段又要几十亿年。在这个时期，有多细胞族群，就是有很多种不同细胞的群落，作为有机体一起合作。实际上，我们就是这样的多细胞族群。我们有很多细胞，它们不再是只为自己存活。皮肤细胞根本没用，要是没有心脏细胞，肌肉细胞，脑细胞等等。所以这些族群开始进化这样发生有趣的进化的不再仅仅是单一细胞。而是我们称为有机体的族群。
en:Now the transition point happenedwhen these communities got so closethat, in fact, they got togetherand decided to write down the whole recipe for the communitytogether on one string of DNA.And so the next stage that&#39;s interesting in lifetook about another billion years.And at that stage,we have multi-cellular communities,communities of lots of different types of cells,working together as a single organism.And in fact, we&#39;re such a multi-cellular community.We have lots of cellsthat are not out for themselves anymore.Your skin cell is really uselesswithout a heart cell, muscle cell,a brain cell and so on.So these communities began to evolveso that the interesting level on which evolution was taking placewas no longer a cell,but a community which we call an organism.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:接下来发生就是在这些族群中。这些细胞群落，再次，开始提取资讯。它们开始构建非常特别的专门处理群落内资讯的结构。这些就是神经结构。所以神经元是这些细胞群建立的资讯处理仪器。实际上，群落里开始出现专家以及特殊结构负责记录，理解，学习资讯。这就是这些细胞群的大脑和神经系统。这给了它们进化的有利条件。因为这样的话，对每个个体——学习可以发生在单个有机体的时间跨度内，而不是整个进化时间跨度。
en:Now the next step that happenedis within these communities.These communities of cells,again, began to abstract information.And they began building very special structuresthat did nothing but process information within the community.And those are the neural structures.So neurons are the information processing apparatusthat those communities of cells built up.And in fact, they began to get specialists in the communityand special structuresthat were responsible for recording,understanding, learning information.And that was the brains and the nervous systemof those communities.And that gave them an evolutionary advantage.Because at that point,an individual —learning could happenwithin the time span of a single organism,instead of over this evolutionary time span.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:所以一个有机体能够，比如说，学会不吃某种水果因为它不好吃而且上次吃的觉得恶心。这可以发生在一个单个有机体的一生中，然后在这种特殊信息处理结构建成前，这得要进化学习千万年，通过吃了这种水果前仆后继死去的个体。所以神经系统，生物组建这种特殊结构的事实，极大地加速了进化的进程。因为至此进化可以在个体中发生了。它能发生在学习的时间跨度内。
en:So an organism could, for instance,learn not to eat a certain kind of fruitbecause it tasted bad and it got sick last time it ate it.That could happen within the lifetime of a single organism,whereas before they&#39;d built these special information processing structures,that would have had to be learned evolutionarilyover hundreds of thousands of yearsby the individuals dying off that ate that kind of fruit.So that nervous system,the fact that they built these special information structures,tremendously sped up the whole process of evolution.Because evolution could now happen within an individual.It could happen in learning time scales.
时间：11:51
zh-cn:但是接下来发生的是每个个体发现了，当然，交流的秘诀。比如说，我们所知道的最精密的版本就是人类语言。想想看，这真是个奇妙的发明。我脑子里有个很复杂，混乱，疑惑的想法。我坐在这，基本上就是吐字发声，希望在你们头脑里建立一个类似的混乱跟它有点类似的想法。但是我们正在把很复杂的东西转化成声音，一连串的声音，并在你们大脑产生很复杂的东西。所以现在这推动我们开始运作作为单个有机体。
en:But then what happenedwas the individuals worked out,of course, tricks of communicating.And for example,the most sophisticated version that we&#39;re aware of is human language.It&#39;s really a pretty amazing invention if you think about it.Here I have a very complicated, messy,confused idea in my head.I&#39;m sitting here making grunting sounds basically,and hopefully constructing a similar messy, confused idea in your headthat bears some analogy to it.But we&#39;re taking something very complicated,turning it into sound, sequences of sounds,and producing something very complicated in your brain.So this allows us nowto begin to start functioningas a single organism.
时间：12:34
zh-cn:所以，实际上，我们已经完成的就是我们，人类，开始抽离出来。我们正在经历多细胞有机体经历的相同的阶段——提取我们记录，展示，处理资讯的方式。比如说，语言的发明就是这个方向上很小一步。电话，电脑，影碟，光碟等等都是我们的特殊机制，我们正在社会里构建用来处理资讯的机制。这些都是把我们联系在一起，变的比我们之前更大，更快，更有能力进化。所以，现在进化可以发生在微妙的时间跨度级上。你们看过泰伊的那个进化的小例子它好像就在你们眼前的卷积程式上展现了一点进化了。
en:And so, in fact, what we&#39;ve doneis we, humanity,have started abstracting out.We&#39;re going through the same levelsthat multi-cellular organisms have gone through —abstracting out our methods of recording,presenting, processing information.So for example, the invention of languagewas a tiny step in that direction.Telephony, computers,videotapes, CD-ROMs and so onare all our specialized mechanismsthat we&#39;ve now built within our societyfor handling that information.And it all connects us togetherinto somethingthat is much biggerand much fasterand able to evolvethan what we were before.So now, evolution can take placeon a scale of microseconds.And you saw Ty&#39;s little evolutionary examplewhere he sort of did a little bit of evolutionon the Convolution program right before your eyes.
时间：13:30
zh-cn:所以现在我们再次加快时间跨度。我讲的故事的第一步每一步花费了几十亿年。下一步，像神经系统和大脑，消耗几百万年。再接下来，像语言等等，需要不到一百万年。再下一步，像电子器件，仿佛只要几十年。这个过程是自给自足，并且变成，我猜，应该自我催化描述更合适——当事物加快改变的速度。变化越多，变化就越快。我想这就是我们在这看到的激增曲线。我们看到这个过程回馈到自己。
en:So now we&#39;ve speeded up the time scales once again.So the first steps of the story that I told you abouttook a billion years a piece.And the next steps,like nervous systems and brains,took a few hundred million years.Then the next steps, like language and so on,took less than a million years.And these next steps, like electronics,seem to be taking only a few decades.The process is feeding on itselfand becoming, I guess, autocatalytic is the word for it —when something reinforces its rate of change.The more it changes, the faster it changes.And I think that that&#39;s what we&#39;re seeing here in this explosion of curve.We&#39;re seeing this process feeding back on itself.
时间：14:09
zh-cn:我现在工作就是自己设计电脑，我知道用来设计电脑的这些机制不可能存在，要是没有近期电脑的进步。现在，我做的是设计复杂到不可能从传统意义上设计的物体。我不知道连接机器上每个电晶体的作用。有几十亿电晶体。实际上，我所做的思考机器的设计师们做的，我们认为是为某种程度的资讯抽取，然后把它传给机器而机器把它运用到超出我们所能做的范围，而且比我们从前所做的更深远更快。实际上，有时候它采用的方法我们并不很懂。
en:Now I design computers for a living,and I know that the mechanismsthat I use to design computerswould be impossiblewithout recent advances in computers.So right now, what I dois I design objects at such complexitythat it&#39;s really impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense.I don&#39;t know what every transistor in the connection machine does.There are billions of them.Instead, what I doand what the designers at Thinking Machines dois we think at some level of abstractionand then we hand it to the machineand the machine takes it beyond what we could ever do,much farther and faster than we could ever do.And in fact, sometimes it takes it by methodsthat we don&#39;t quite even understand.
时间：14:55
zh-cn:有个尤其有趣我最近一直在用的就是进化本身。我们做的就是在机器里放入一个进化进程，这个进程在微妙时间跨度上就能发生。比如，大部分极端情况下，我们实际上能通过从随机的指令序列开始进化一个程式。（就像）说“电脑，请你产生一亿随机指令序列。现在请你运行所有这些随机指令列，运行所有程式，并选出最接近我想要的。”也就是说，我定义我要什么。假设我需要分类资料，这是个我用它试验过的简单例子。找到最接近资料分类的程式。
en:One method that&#39;s particularly interestingthat I&#39;ve been using a lot latelyis evolution itself.So what we dois we put inside the machinea process of evolutionthat takes place on the microsecond time scale.So for example,in the most extreme cases,we can actually evolve a programby starting out with random sequences of instructions.Say, &quot;Computer, would you please makea hundred million random sequences of instructions.Now would you please run all of those random sequences of instructions,run all of those programs,and pick out the ones that came closest to doing what I wanted.&quot;So in other words, I define what I wanted.Let&#39;s say I want to sort numbers,as a simple example I&#39;ve done it with.So find the programs that come closest to sorting numbers.
时间：15:42
zh-cn:当然，随机的指令序列非常不可能分类资料，所以它们中没有一个能完成。但是中间有一个，运气很好，可能会把两个数按顺序排列。我说，“电脑，请你现在选出序列中百分之十完成得最好的。保存这些。删掉其他的。现在来复制资料分类得最好的这些。以类似交配的重组过程来复制它们。取两个程式交换它们的副程式让它们产生子女，这些子女继承了两个程式副程式的特征。所以我得到新一代的由组合做的比较好的程式而产生的程式。（指令）说，“请重复这个过程。”再做一次。可能引入一些突变。再试一次并用在新的一代上。
en:So of course, random sequences of instructionsare very unlikely to sort numbers,so none of them will really do it.But one of them, by luck,may put two numbers in the right order.And I say, &quot;Computer,would you please now take the 10 percentof those random sequences that did the best job.Save those. Kill off the rest.And now let&#39;s reproducethe ones that sorted numbers the best.And let&#39;s reproduce them by a process of recombinationanalogous to sex.&quot;Take two programs and they produce childrenby exchanging their subroutines,and the children inherit the traits of the subroutines of the two programs.So I&#39;ve got now a new generation of programsthat are produced by combinationsof the programs that did a little bit better job.Say, &quot;Please repeat that process.&quot;Score them again.Introduce some mutations perhaps.And try that again and do that for another generation.
时间：16:35
zh-cn:这一代上每个程式只需要几毫秒。所以我在电脑上用几分钟能做等同于几百万年的进化过程，或者，情况复杂时，在几小时内完成。结束时，我得到绝对完美的分类资料的程式。实际上，这些程式比我手写的任何程式都要有效率。
en:Well every one of those generations just takes a few milliseconds.So I can do the equivalentof millions of years of evolution on thatwithin the computer in a few minutes,or in the complicated cases, in a few hours.At the end of that, I end up with programsthat are absolutely perfect at sorting numbers.In fact, they are programs that are much more efficientthan programs I could have ever written by hand.
时间：16:57
zh-cn:现在，如果我读这些程式，我说不出它们怎么工作的。我尝试过阅读并且解释它们如何工作的。它们很抽象，奇怪。但是它们能完成任务。实际上，我知道，我很有信心，它们能完成任务因为它们来自于一行上千万能完成认为的程式。事实上，它们的生命就是靠着这工作。
en:Now if I look at those programs,I can&#39;t tell you how they work.I&#39;ve tried looking at them and telling you how they work.They&#39;re obscure, weird programs.But they do the job.And in fact, I know, I&#39;m very confident that they do the jobbecause they come from a lineof hundreds of thousands of programs that did the job.In fact, their life depended on doing the job.
时间：17:17
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：17:22
zh-cn:我曾经有一次和马文·明斯基一起坐747，他拿出一张卡，说，“看，看这。这上面说，‘本飞机有很多精密部件协作，保障你飞行安全。’这是不是让你很有信心？”
en:I was riding in a 747with Marvin Minsky once,and he pulls out this card and says, &quot;Oh look. Look at this.It says, &#39;This plane has hundreds of thousands of tiny partsworking together to make you a safe flight.&#39;Doesn&#39;t that make you feel confident?&quot;
时间：17:39
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：17:41
zh-cn:事实上，我们知道工程过程复杂化并不能很好工作。所以我们开始依赖电脑来做与工程有很大不同的一个过程。它能让我们生产出比普通工程能生产的更复杂的东西。然而，我们还不明白它的选择。从某种意义上说，电脑比我们超前。我们现在正用这些程式创造更快的电脑以便能更快地运行这个进程。所以它是自我回馈的。这正变得更快，这也是为什么我觉得电脑似乎很让人摸不清。由于所有这些技术都回馈给自己。我们正在起飞。
en:In fact, we know that the engineering process doesn&#39;t work very wellwhen it gets complicated.So we&#39;re beginning to depend on computersto do a process that&#39;s very different than engineering.And it lets us produce things of much more complexitythan normal engineering lets us produce.And yet, we don&#39;t quite understand the options of it.So in a sense, it&#39;s getting ahead of us.We&#39;re now using those programsto make much faster computersso that we&#39;ll be able to run this process much faster.So it&#39;s feeding back on itself.The thing is becoming fasterand that&#39;s why I think it seems so confusing.Because all of these technologies are feeding back on themselves.We&#39;re taking off.
时间：18:21
zh-cn:我们正是在时间的某一点，这一点类似于单细胞有机体正转变成多细胞机体的时刻。我们就像变形虫。搞不清自己正在创造的是什么东西。我们正在转折点上。不过我认为一定有跟随着我们的东西。我想它是很崇拜我们的，认为我们是进化的终极产物。我认为我们这所有人都是繁衍的一部分，无论下一步是什么。午饭时间快到了，趁我还没被选走，我想我就在这里结束。
en:And what we are is we&#39;re at a point in timewhich is analogous to when single-celled organismswere turning into multi-celled organisms.So we&#39;re the amoebasand we can&#39;t quite figure out what the hell this thing is we&#39;re creating.We&#39;re right at that point of transition.But I think that there really is something coming along after us.I think it&#39;s very haughty of usto think that we&#39;re the end product of evolution.And I think all of us hereare a part of producingwhatever that next thing is.So lunch is coming along,and I think I will stop at that point,before I get selected out.
时间：18:56
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
