时间： 0:11
zh-cn:当我得到现在这份工作时，有人给了我一份忠告，一天访问三个政治人物。从这么密集的接触中，我可以告诉你他们都是某种情绪化怪人。我形容他们的病征为多语症，简单来说就是他们话多到自己都抓狂。（笑声）但他们的社交能力真的很好。当他们见到你，他们用眼神锁定你，他们侵犯你的私人空间他们还会按摩你的后脑勺。
en:When I got my current job, I was given a good piece of advice,which was to interview three politicians every day.And from that much contact with politicians,I can tell you they&#39;re all emotional freaks of one sort or another.They have what I called &quot;logorrhea dementia,&quot;which is they talk so much they drive themselves insane.(Laughter)But what they do have is incredible social skills.When you meet them, they lock into you,they look you in the eye,they invade your personal space,they massage the back of your head.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:几个月前我和一个共和党议员共进晚餐他一直把手放在我大腿内侧整个晚餐都这样捏我。几年前我见到泰德·肯尼迪和丹·奎尔在议会池相遇。他们是好朋友，他们互相拥抱，他们笑着，脸靠这么近。他们磨磨蹭蹭地移动着在彼此身上上下其手。我想“拜托你们干嘛不去开个房间，实在看不下去了。”但他们就是有这种社交手腕。
en:I had dinner with a Republican senator several months agowho kept his hand on my inner thighthroughout the whole meal — squeezing it.I once — this was years ago —I saw Ted Kennedy and Dan Quayle meet in the well of the Senate.And they were friends, and they hugged each otherand they were laughing, and their faces were like this far apart.And they were moving and grindingand moving their arms up and down each other.And I was like, &quot;Get a room. I don&#39;t want to see this.&quot;But they have those social skills.
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:另一个例子：上次大选，我跟着Mitt Romney到新罕布夏州去。他五个完美的儿子协助他竞选：毕普、齐普、瑞普、吉普、立普和帝普。（笑声）他走进一个快餐店。他向一个家庭自我介绍他说“你从新罕布夏州哪个小城来的？”然后他描述他在那个小城里有的那个房子。他就这样走来走去，到他要离开快餐店的时候，他可以叫出所有人的名字。我心想“这就是真正的社交手腕了。”
en:Another case:Last election cycle,I was following Mitt Romney around New Hampshire,and he was campaigning with his five perfect sons:Bip, Chip, Rip, Zip, Lip and Dip.(Laughter)And he&#39;s going into a diner.And he goes into the diner, introduces himself to a familyand says, &quot;What village are you from in New Hampshire?&quot;And then he describes the home he owned in their village.And so he goes around the room,and then as he&#39;s leaving the diner,he first-names almost everybody he&#39;s just met.I was like, &quot;Okay, that&#39;s social skill.&quot;
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:矛盾的是当这些人进入立法模式时，这些社会敏感度就消失了，他们开始用会计师的语调说话。在我的从业生涯中，我描写过一系列的失败。我们派经济学家到解体后的苏联着手解决他们瘫痪了的私有化计划，但他们缺乏的是社会信任。我们派兵侵略伊拉克毫不理会他们文化与心理的现状。我们的金融管制机构把制度建立在交易员完全理性不会做任何傻事的假设上。三十年来，我报导教育改革，我们重整所有官僚体系的黑箱—特许证、私立学校、证件—但每年的成绩仍然叫人失望。事实是，人们从所爱的人身上学习如果你不讨论老师与学生之间的关系，这便偏离了真实状态，但这些真实被排除在我们的立法程序以外。
en:But the paradox is,when a lot of these people slip into the policy-making mode,that social awareness vanishesand they start talking like accountants.So in the course of my career,I have covered a series of failures.We sent economists in the Soviet Unionwith privatization plans when it broke up,and what they really lacked was social trust.We invaded Iraq with a militaryoblivious to the cultural and psychological realities.We had a financial regulatory regimebased on the assumptionsthat traders were rational creatureswho wouldn&#39;t do anything stupid.For 30 years, I&#39;ve been covering school reformand we&#39;ve basically reorganized the bureaucratic boxes —charters, private schools, vouchers —but we&#39;ve had disappointing results year after year.And the fact is, people learn from people they love.And if you&#39;re not talking about the individual relationshipbetween a teacher and a student,you&#39;re not talking about that reality.But that reality is expungedfrom our policy-making process.
时间： 2:40
zh-cn:于是我心中油然生出这个问题：为什么地球上最人情练达的一群人一想到法令就变得如此不人性？我的结论是这是一个更大的问题造成的症状。几世纪以来我们沿袭一种对人性的看法我们基本认为我们都是分开的个体，理性和感性各自分开社会进步到一个程度以后理性就能压抑激情我们对人性的观点就是我们是理性的个体，这些看法直接变成奖励方法。也变成了我们看世界的角度当人们尝试用物理的假设去衡量人类的行为举止时。这也删除了许多重要的部份，形成了一种对人性的肤浅看法。
en:And so that&#39;s led to a question for me:Why are the most socially-attuned people on earthcompletely dehumanizedwhen they think about policy?And I came to the conclusion,this is a symptom of a larger problem.That, for centuries, we&#39;ve inherited a view of human naturebased on the notionthat we&#39;re divided selves,that reason is separated from the emotionsand that society progressesto the extent that reason can suppress the passions.And it&#39;s led to a view of human naturethat we&#39;re rational individualswho respond in straightforward ways to incentives,and it&#39;s led to ways of seeing the worldwhere people try to use the assumptions of physicsto measure how human behavior is.And it&#39;s produced a great amputation,a shallow view of human nature.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:我们很会谈论物质，但谈到情绪便显得笨拙。我们很会谈论技能安全和健康，但我们不擅讨论人格。著名哲学家阿拉斯代尔·麦金泰尔Alasdair Maclntyre说，“我们仍有古老的道德概念如美德、荣誉、良善，但我们没有一个制度来联系它们。”这不但让政治走上一条肤浅的道路，也影响了各种层面的做法。
en:We&#39;re really good at talking about material things,but we&#39;re really bad at talking about emotions.We&#39;re really good at talking about skillsand safety and health;we&#39;re really bad at talking about character.Alasdair MacIntyre, the famous philosopher,said that, &quot;We have the concepts of the ancient moralityof virtue, honor, goodness,but we no longer have a systemby which to connect them.&quot;And so this has led to a shallow path in politics,but also in a whole range of human endeavors.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:你可以从我们抚养孩子的方式中窥其一二。下午三点到小学去看孩子出来，他们背着八十磅重的背包。一阵风吹来，他们就会像甲虫一样翻倒在地。你看见这些豪华轿车—可能是萨博、奥迪或沃尔沃富豪，这些好车在某些社区被接受只要不是来自那些抵触美国外交政策的国家就可以。他们被这些我称作超级母亲的生物接走，这些生物不但事业成功也会抽出时间确保她们的孩子进入哈佛。你很容易辨识出超级母亲，因为她们通常比孩子还瘦。（笑声）在怀孕期间，她们摆摆屁股练习操。婴儿滑出后，她们拿出中文字卡要他们学习。
en:You can see it in the way we raise our young kids.You go to an elementary school at three in the afternoonand you watch the kids come out,and they&#39;re wearing these 80-pound backpacks.If the wind blows them over, they&#39;re like beetles stuck there on the ground.You see these cars that drive up —usually it&#39;s Saabs and Audis and Volvos,because in certain neighborhoods it&#39;s socially acceptable to have a luxury car,so long as it comes from a country hostile to U.S. foreign policy —that&#39;s fine.They get picked up by these creatures I&#39;ve called uber-moms,who are highly successful career womenwho have taken time off to make sure all their kids get into Harvard.And you can usually tell the uber-momsbecause they actually weigh less than their own children.(Laughter)So at the moment of conception,they&#39;re doing little butt exercises.Babies flop out,they&#39;re flashing Mandarin flashcards at the things.
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:载孩子回家的路上，她们希望孩子变得懂事，于是带他们去吃班杰利冰淇淋也算一种她们自己的外交政策。我在一本书里嘲弄说班杰利公司应该制造和平主义牙膏—不杀菌，温和地请它们离开。这会大卖。（笑声）他们去全食超市Whole Foods买婴儿食品。全食超市是一种比较进步的大杂货店所有的收银员好似是从国际人道组织借来的。（笑声）她们去那里买海藻作成的零食叫甘蓝宝贝菜，因为家里的孩子会说，“妈！我要那些能预防结肠直肠癌的零食！”
en:Driving them home, and they want them to be enlightened,so they take them to Ben &amp; Jerry&#39;s ice cream companywith its own foreign policy.In one of my books,I joke that Ben &amp; Jerry&#39;s should make a pacifist toothpaste —doesn&#39;t kill germs, just asks them to leave.It would be a big seller.(Laughter)And they go to Whole Foods to get their baby formula,and Whole Foods is one of those progressive grocery storeswhere all the cashiers look like they&#39;re on loan from Amnesty International.(Laughter)They buy these seaweed-based snacks therecalled Veggie Booty with Kale,which is for kids who come home and say,&quot;Mom, mom, I want a snack that&#39;ll help prevent colon-rectal cancer.&quot;
时间： 5:33
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:这些孩子以这样方式成长，经历着由我们权衡事情成功的考验—SAT考试、双簧管、足球练习。进好学校，有好工作，有时候靠着自己的力量取得表面成功，赚许多许多钱。你会在度假胜地看到他们各种豪华滑雪度假村如杰克逊洞或者阿斯彭。他们更优雅、更修长—他们没有大腿；只有一条优雅的小腿叠在另一条优雅的小腿上。（笑声）他们有了自己的孩子，以娶嫁美丽人士实现基因遗传奇迹，奶奶看上去像女作家格特鲁德·斯泰因，女儿却像女明星哈莉·贝瑞—我不知道他们怎么办到的。他们到了滑雪胜地发现有条像房屋三分之一高的狗很时尚。于是他们买来那些一百六十磅的毛毛狗—看上去像迅猛龙，给它们取珍·奥丝汀书里的小说人名。
en:And so the kids are raised in a certain way,jumping through achievement hoops of the things we can measure —SAT prep, oboe, soccer practice.They get into competitive colleges, they get good jobs,and sometimes they make a success of themselvesin a superficial manner, and they make a ton of money.And sometimes you can see them at vacation placeslike Jackson Hole or Aspen.And they&#39;ve become elegant and slender —they don&#39;t really have thighs;they just have one elegant calve on top of another.(Laughter)They have kids of their own,and they&#39;ve achieved a genetic miracle by marrying beautiful people,so their grandmoms look like Gertrude Stein,their daughters looks like Halle Berry — I don&#39;t know how they&#39;ve done that.They get there and they realizeit&#39;s fashionable now to have dogs a third as tall as your ceiling heights.So they&#39;ve got these furry 160-pound dogs —all look like velociraptors,all named after Jane Austen characters.
时间： 6:31
zh-cn:当他们逐渐老去，也没有发展出什么人生哲学，但他们想“我已达成了所有成功，我可不想死。”于是他们请私人教练，吃犀利士像吃口香糖。他们就在那些山上。他们滑遍各处的山带着那样冰冷的神情严肃的政治人物迪克·切尼与其相比根本就是谐星杰里·刘易斯。（笑声）当他们从你身边滑过，就像有块钢铁小饼干从你身边无声飞过。
en:And then when they get old, they haven&#39;t really developed a philosophy of life,but they&#39;ve decided, &quot;I&#39;ve been successful at everything;I&#39;m just not going to die.&quot;And so they hire personal trainers;they&#39;re popping Cialis like breath mints.You see them on the mountains up there.They&#39;re cross-country skiing up the mountainwith these grim expressionsthat make Dick Cheney look like Jerry Lewis.(Laughter)And as they whiz by you,it&#39;s like being passed by a little iron Raisinetgoing up the hill.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:这的确是人生的一部分，但不是人生的全部。过去几年，我们开始看到一些有关人性的深层研究有关我们究竟是谁。不是来自神学或哲学，而是来自思想研究，从不同层次的学术界，从神经科学到认知科学、行为经济学、心理学、社会学，这发展为一种意识革命。当你纵观以上全部，它给我们一种新的角度看人性。不只是冷冰冰的唯物观，而是一种新的人道主义。当你整合这些研究，你会有三种理解。
en:And so this is part of what life is,but it&#39;s not all of what life is.And over the past few years,I think we&#39;ve been given a deeper view of human natureand a deeper view of who we are.And it&#39;s not based on theology or philosophy,it&#39;s in the study of the mind,across all these spheres of research,from neuroscience to the cognitive scientists,behavioral economists, psychologists,sociology,we&#39;re developing a revolution in consciousness.And when you synthesize it all,it&#39;s giving us a new view of human nature.And far from being a coldly materialistic view of nature,it&#39;s a new humanism, it&#39;s a new enchantment.And I think when you synthesize this research,you start with three key insights.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:第一当意识为人类写下自传，潜意识却做了大部分的工作。简单说来，人脑一分钟可以处理百万个细节，但意识到的大概有40个。许多怪事由此发生。我最喜欢的是许多叫丹尼的成了牙医（英语的丹尼音近牙医），叫罗伦斯的成了律师，只因潜意识里我们倾向和音似的事物拉拢靠近乎，这就是我把女儿取名叫做美国总统的原因。（笑声）另外一个发现是潜意识不如人们想的那样愚笨与饥渴，事实上它很聪明。举例来说，买家具一直是件困难的事。我们很难想象新沙发在房子里看上去会是什么模样。解决方法是，仔细看清家具的模样，把它沉浸在脑海，先别想它，几天以后，以你的直觉去买，因为潜意识已经为你解决了这个问题。
en:The first insight isthat while the conscious mind writes the autobiography of our species,the unconscious mind does most of the work.And so one way to formulate that isthe human mind can take in millions of pieces of information a minute,of which it can be consciously aware of about 40.And this leads to oddities.One of my favorite is that people named Dennisare disproportionately likely to become dentists,people named Lawrence become lawyers,because unconsciously we gravitate toward thingsthat sound familiar,which is why I named my daughter President of the United States Brooks.(Laughter)Another finding is that the unconscious,far from being dumb and sexualized,is actually quite smart.So one of the most cognitively demanding things we do is buy furniture.It&#39;s really hard to imagine a sofa, how it&#39;s going to look in your house.And the way you should do thatis study the furniture,let it marinate in your mind, distract yourself,and then a few days later, go with your gut,because unconsciously you&#39;ve figured it out.
时间： 8:43
zh-cn:第二情绪是我们思考的中心。中风的人和在大脑处理情绪区域发生机能损害的人并不聪明，事实上他们很无助。研究这领域的巨人今晚就在我们当中Antonio Damasio － 他的演讲在明天早上。他的研究告诉我们情绪并不和理性分开，情绪其实是理性的基础，它告诉我们什么是重要的。理解和训练你的情绪是通往智慧的道路。
en:The second insightis that emotions are at the center of our thinking.People with strokes and lesionsin the emotion-processing parts of the brainare not super smart,they&#39;re actually sometimes quite helpless.And the &quot;giant&quot; in the field is in the room tonightand is speaking tomorrow morning — Antonio Damasio.And one of the things he&#39;s really shown usis that emotions are not separate from reason,but they are the foundation of reasonbecause they tell us what to value.And so reading and educating your emotionsis one of the central activities of wisdom.
时间： 9:15
zh-cn:身为一个中年男子；我并不善于谈论情绪。我最喜欢的有关大脑的故事却以中年男子为例。把中年男子放进脑扫描机器里—这没什么根据，但无所谓—让这些中年男子看恐怖电影，再让他们叙述他们面对妻子的感受。两者的脑扫描结果是一样的。绝对的恐怖。让我们谈情绪就像叫甘地谈论暴食，但情绪帮助我们整理思绪。它告诉我们应该记得什么大脑纪录我们一生经历过的感受
en:Now I&#39;m a middle-aged guy.I&#39;m not exactly comfortable with emotions.One of my favorite brain stories described these middle-aged guys.They put them into a brain scan machine —this is apocryphal by the way, but I don&#39;t care —and they had them watch a horror movie,and then they had them describe their feelings toward their wives.And the brain scans were identical in both activities.It was just sheer terror.So me talking about emotionis like Gandhi talking about gluttony,but it is the central organizing processof the way we think.It tells us what to imprint.The brain is the record of the feelings of a life.
时间： 9:52
zh-cn:第三是我们不是独立的个体。我们是社群动物，不是理性动物。我们从人际关系中成长，深深地互相影响。当我们见到他人，我们会在脑中演练他们脑中所看到的景象。当我们看到电影里的飞车追逐就像是我们也默默地经历了它。当我们看色情影带就有点像我们也进行了性行为，虽然没有这么真实。当我们看到路上散步的情侣，当群众占领了埃及和突尼西亚情绪油然而生蔓延着，相互影响。它随时改变我们让我们用不同角度理解政治，最重要的重新审视人力资本。
en:And the third insightis that we&#39;re not primarily self-contained individuals.We&#39;re social animals, not rational animals.We emerge out of relationships,and we are deeply interpenetrated, one with another.And so when we see another person,we reenact in our own mindswhat we see in their minds.When we watch a car chase in a movie,it&#39;s almost as if we are subtly having a car chase.When we watch pornography,it&#39;s a little like having sex,though probably not as good.And we see this when lovers walk down the street,when a crowd in Egypt or Tunisiagets caught up in an emotional contagion,the deep interpenetration.And this revolution in who we aregives us a different way of seeing, I think, politics,a different way, most importantly,of seeing human capital.
时间：10:42
zh-cn:我们是法国启蒙的后代。我们相信理性是最重要的。但我相信研究会告诉我们休姆或亚当史密斯带来的英式或苏格兰式启蒙更接近我们的本真—理性往往软弱，感性时时强大，而我们的感性是值得信任的。这些研究改正了我们文化中的偏见，那深入人心的偏见它让我们理解究竟怎样的生活才是个成功的人生。当我们想到人力资本我们想到的是那些评鉴标准—学校成绩、考试成绩、学位成绩，和在学校的岁月年华。事实上，要过个有意义的人生来自于更深层的事物，那些甚至无法言说的感受。在此让我点出两件事我想这研究要我们去了解这些。
en:We are now children of the French Enlightenment.We believe that reason is the highest of the faculties.But I think this research showsthat the British Enlightenment, or the Scottish Enlightenment,with David Hume, Adam Smith,actually had a better handle on who we are —that reason is often weak, our sentiments are strong,and our sentiments are often trustworthy.And this work corrects that bias in our culture,that dehumanizing bias.It gives us a deeper senseof what it actually takesfor us to thrive in this life.When we think about human capitalwe think about the things we can measure easily —things like grades, SAT&#39;s, degrees,the number of years in schooling.What it really takes to do well, to lead a meaningful life,are things that are deeper,things we don&#39;t really even have words for.And so let me list just a couple of the thingsI think this research points us toward trying to understand.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:第一种天赋或者才华其实是一种心智直观—去理解他人想法，和懂得他人的能力。婴儿就有这种能力。华盛顿大学的梅尔索夫俯身对着43分钟大的婴儿吐舌头。婴儿也向他吐舌头。婴儿生来就能感知读懂母亲的心思了解他们探寻的所有东西—这成为他们理解现实世界的模式。在美国，55％的婴儿和母亲有亲密的双向沟通他们用这种模式学习该和他人如何交流。这些懂得和他人交流的人在人生路途中超前许多。明尼苏达州大学的科学家做了个研究看谁可以在18岁从高中毕业有77％的准确度取决于他们与母亲的亲密程度。两成没有这种关系的孩子我们称他们为回避型亲密关系。他们往往难以与他人建立关系。他们走过人生像不停转变航线的小船—想和人更靠近，但却没有模式能帮助他们。这是一种向别人吸收知识的技术。
en:The first gift, or talent, is mindsight —the ability to enter into other people&#39;s mindsand learn what they have to offer.Babies come with this ability.Meltzoff, who&#39;s at the University of Washington,leaned over a baby who was 43 minutes old.He wagged his tongue at the baby.The baby wagged her tongue back.Babies are born to interpenetrate into Mom&#39;s mindand to download what they find —their models of how to understand reality.In the United States, 55 percent of babieshave a deep two-way conversation with Momand they learn models to how to relate to other people.And those people who have models of how to relatehave a huge head start in life.Scientists at the University of Minnesota did a studyin which they could predictwith 77 percent accuracy, at age 18 months,who was going to graduate from high school,based on who had good attachment with mom.Twenty percent of kids do not have those relationships.They are what we call avoidantly attached.They have trouble relating to other people.They go through lifelike sailboats tacking into the wind —wanting to get close to people,but not really having the models of how to do that.And so this is one skillof how to hoover up knowledge, one from another.
时间：12:51
zh-cn:第二种能力也一样重要。平心静气地解读自己的偏见和失败。举例来说，我们是台过分自信的机器。95%的教授宣称他们比普遍的教授都优秀。96％的大学生认为他们的社交手腕胜于常人。时代杂志问美国人“你是美国人中收入最好的那10％吗？”19％的美国人是那10％。（笑声）事实上，这是一个和性别有关的特点。淹死的男人比女人多上两倍，因为男人都觉得他们可以游过那条河但有些人有能力可以辨识出自己的偏见与过分自信。他们在知识论上保持谦虚。他们对暧昧不明的事物保持开放。他们可以随着证据强度调整结论。他们好奇。而这些特性和IQ没有直接关系。
en:A second skill is equipoise,the ability to have the serenityto read the biases and failures in your own mind.So for example, we are overconfidence machines.Ninety-five percent of our professors reportthat they are above-average teachers.Ninety-six percent of college studentssay they have above-average social skills.Time magazine asked Americans, &quot;Are you in the top one percent of earners?&quot;Nineteen percent of Americans are in the top one percent of earners.(Laughter)This is a gender-linked trait, by the way.Men drown at twice the rate of women,because men think they can swim across that lake.But some people have the ability and awarenessof their own biases, their own overconfidence.They have epistemological modesty.They are open-minded in the face of ambiguity.They are able to adjust strength of the conclusionsto the strength of their evidence.They are curious.And these traits are often unrelated and uncorrelated with IQ.
时间：13:47
zh-cn:第三个特性是medes，这是希腊文，也可以说是见机行事。它是一种对身边事物保持敏感，从环境中找出模式推演出重点的能力。我在时代杂志的一个同事为伊拉克士兵做了一个专题他们可以光靠看着一条街就知道有没有地雷。他们没办法告诉你他们是怎么办到的但他们感觉到一种毛骨悚然，而他们往往是对的。第三种能力也可以说是同感，在群体中共事的能力。这种能力非常有用，因为群体比个人聪明—面对面的群体比经由电子产品交流的群体更聪明，因为有九成资讯不是靠语言交流。一个群体的影响力不是取决于群体成员的智商，而是他们沟通的方法，他们是否轮流对话。
en:The third trait is metis,what we might call street smarts — it&#39;s a Greek word.It&#39;s a sensitivity to the physical environment,the ability to pick out patterns in an environment —derive a gist.One of my colleagues at the Timesdid a great story about soldiers in Iraqwho could look down a street and detect somehowwhether there was an IED, a landmine, in the street.They couldn&#39;t tell you how they did it,but they could feel cold, they felt a coldness,and they were more often right than wrong.The third is what you might call sympathy,the ability to work within groups.And that comes in tremendously handy,because groups are smarter than individuals.And face-to-face groups are much smarterthan groups that communicate electronically,because 90 percent of our communication is non-verbal.And the effectiveness of a groupis not determined by the IQ of the group;it&#39;s determined by how well they communicate,how often they take turns in conversation.
时间：14:44
zh-cn:然后我们可以讨论“混合”的特性。任何小孩都可以说“我​​是老虎”然后假装自己是老虎。它看起来很简单。但事实上，它出乎意料的复杂把“我”和“老虎”的概念混合在一起。但这就是创新的能力。像毕卡索就是结合西方艺术的概念和非洲面具的概念将他们混合在一起—不只是几何图案，还有它们所展示的伦理逻辑连为一体。这些都是我们无法衡量的能力。
en:Then you could talk about a trait like blending.Any child can say, &quot;I&#39;m a tiger,&quot; pretend to be a tiger.It seems so elementary.But in fact, it&#39;s phenomenally complicatedto take a concept &quot;I&quot; and a concept &quot;tiger&quot;and blend them together.But this is the source of innovation.What Picasso did, for example,was take the concept &quot;Western art&quot;and the concept &quot;African masks&quot;and blend them together —not only the geometry,but the moral systems entailed in them.And these are skills, again, we can&#39;t count and measure.
时间：15:14
zh-cn:最后我想提到的是一种叫热切的心理状态。这不是一种能力，更像一种动力或激励。意识想要的是成功和名望。潜意识想要的是那些超然的短暂时刻，当我们全身心投入沉溺在一项任务或挑战中—就像工匠沉迷于它的技艺，爱好自然者和自然合为一体，信徒感觉和神的爱合一。这些就是潜意识渴望的经历。我们当中的许多人在恋爱中体验这种合一的感觉。
en:And then the final thing I&#39;ll mentionis something you might call limerence.And this is not an ability;it&#39;s a drive and a motivation.The conscious mind hungers for success and prestige.The unconscious mind hungersfor those moments of transcendence,when the skull line disappearsand we are lost in a challenge or a task —when a craftsman feels lost in his craft,when a naturalist feels at one with nature,when a believer feels at one with God&#39;s love.That is what the unconscious mind hungers for.And many of us feel it in lovewhen lovers feel fused.
时间：15:51
zh-cn:在这个研究中有关人脑如何互相影响沟通的最美丽一段叙述是来自一位印地安那大学的理论科学家他叫道格拉斯·霍夫施塔特。他的妻子叫卡罗尔，他们有一段很美好的关系。孩子有五岁和两岁时，卡罗尔中风，因脑瘤突然逝世。霍夫施塔特写了一本书叫：《我是一个奇异的环》。在书里他描述一个时刻，卡罗尔逝世后几个月，他在卧室或在壁炉架上看到她的照片。
en:And one of the most beautiful descriptionsI&#39;ve come across in this researchof how minds interpenetratewas written by a great theorist and scientistnamed Douglas Hofstadter at the University of Indiana.He was married to a woman named Carol,and they had a wonderful relationship.When their kids were five and two,Carol had a stroke and a brain tumor and died suddenly.And Hofstadter wrote a bookcalled &quot;I Am a Strange Loop.&quot;In the course of that book, he describes a moment —just months after Carol has died —he comes across her picture on the mantel,or on a bureau in his bedroom.
时间：16:26
zh-cn:他这儿描写到：“我看着她的脸，我深深地看入迷了仿佛我就影射到她瞳孔里。同时，我发现我流着泪说，‘是我。是我。’这几个简单的字让我再次感受之前有过的想法，有关灵魂的融合成为一个更高的存在，在我们彼此的灵魂深处对我们的孩子有着一样的希望和梦想，这些希望并不遥远或者是不可即的希望，只是一个小小的希望，一件让我俩合一让我们成为一体的希望—那些我在婚前，和有孩子前模糊想象过的连为一体的希望。我意识到，虽然卡罗尔已经过世了，她的核心思想并没有死去，而是在我的脑中继续活着。”
en:And here&#39;s what he wrote:&quot;I looked at her face,and I looked so deeplythat I felt I was behind her eyes.And all at once I found myself sayingas tears flowed,&#39;That&#39;s me. That&#39;s me.&#39;And those simple wordsbrought back many thoughts that I had had before,about the fusion of our soulsinto one higher-level entity,about the fact that at the core of both our soulslay our identical hopes and dreams for our children,about the notion that those hopeswere not separate or distinct hopes,but were just one hope,one clear thing that defined us both,that welded us into a unit —the kind of unit I had but dimly imaginedbefore being married and having children.I realized that, though Carol had died,that core piece of her had not died at all,but had lived on very determinedly in my brain.&quot;
时间：17:20
zh-cn:希腊人说我们只有经过痛苦，才能通向智慧的彼岸。经过霍夫施塔特的痛苦，他理解到我们相互影响的程度是如此深远。从过去30年来的政策失败，我想我们已经知道我们对人性的了解有多么肤浅。现在，当我们正面面对我们的肤浅和失败，它们是源自我们不能够深入了解我们自身的人性，随之便有了这种意识革命—许多不同领域的人开始研究人性的深度发展出这个迷人的新人道主义。当弗洛伊德发现了潜意识，这巨大的影响了当时的学术状况。现在我们发现了一个有关我们潜意识的更准确看法—我们内心里究竟是谁。它将会对我们的文化带来一种美妙、深刻和更为人性的影响。
en:The Greeks say we suffer our way to wisdom.Through his suffering, Hofstadter understoodhow deeply interpenetrated we are.Through the policy failures of the last 30 years,we have come to acknowledge, I think,how shallow our view of human nature has been.And now as we confront that shallownessand the failures that derive from our inabilityto get the depths of who we are,comes this revolution in consciousness —these people in so many fieldsexploring the depth of our natureand coming away with this enchanted,this new humanism.And when Freud discovered his sense of the unconscious,it had a vast effect on the climate of the times.Now we are discovering a more accurate visionof the unconscious, of who we are deep inside,and it&#39;s going to have a wonderful and profoundand humanizing effect on our culture.
时间：18:10
zh-cn:谢谢各位。
en:Thank you.
时间：18:12
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
