时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们爷爷那一代人，修建了伟大的运河和水库系统，让人们可以在缺水的地方正常生活。比如在大萧条时代，他们修建了胡佛水坝，拦下的水形成了米德湖，为几个位于干旱地区的城市，比如拉斯维加斯、凤凰城和洛杉矶供水，让那里的市民有水可用。
en:Our grandparents&#39; generationcreated an amazing systemof canals and reservoirsthat made it possiblefor people to live in placeswhere there wasn&#39;t a lot of water.For example, during the Great Depression,they created the Hoover Dam,which in turn, created Lake Meadand made it possible for the citiesof Las Vegas and Phoenixand Los Angeles to provide waterfor people who livedin a really dry place.
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:在二十世纪，我们花费了数万亿美元，为我们的城市修建供水系统。对经济发展而言，这是笔不错的投资。但在过去几十年间，我们看到气候变化、人口增长和水资源争夺带来的后果，已经威胁到我们赖以生存的水资源。
en:In the 20th century,we literally spent trillions of dollarsbuilding infrastructureto get water to our cities.In terms of economic development,it was a great investment.But in the last decade,we&#39;ve seen the combined effectsof climate change, population growthand competition for water resourcesthreaten these vital lifelinesand water resources.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:这张图表显示的是米德湖的水位在过去15年的变化情况。差不多从2000年开始，水位开始下降。下降的速度如此之快，很快，为拉斯维加斯供水的管道将抽不到水。拉斯维加斯很担心这一点他们最近铺设了一条新的抽水管道，称之为“第三吸管”，从湖的更深处抽水。
en:This figure shows you the changein the lake level of Lake Meadthat happened in the last 15 years.You can see starting around the year 2000,the lake level started to drop.And it was dropping at such a ratethat it would have left the drinking waterintakes for Las Vegas high and dry.The city became so concerned about thisthat they recently constructeda new drinking water intake structurethat they referred to as the &quot;Third Straw&quot;to pull water outof the greater depths of the lake.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:向现代都市供水的难题不仅仅发生在美国西南部。2007年，澳大利亚第三大城市，布里斯班，整整6个月无水可用。同样的情况也在巴西圣保罗上演，圣市最主要的水库在2010年还几乎全满，如今已几乎见底，而他们还将举办2016夏季奥运会。
en:The challenges associatedwith providing water to a modern cityare not restrictedto the American Southwest.In the year 2007, the third largestcity in Australia, Brisbane,came within 6 monthsof running out of water.A similar drama is playing out todayin São Paulo, Brazil,where the main reservoir for the cityhas gone from beingcompletely full in 2010,to being nearly empty todayas the city approachesthe 2016 Summer Olympics.
时间： 2:01
zh-cn:我们足够幸运，能够生活在世界上最伟大的城市之一，我们从未真正经历过大旱灾。我们会抱怨洗澡的水不够大。我们也经常不洗车，不浇草坪。但我们从未经历过拧开水龙头，却无水可用的状况。因为在过去，如果发生这样的事情，我们总是能把水库修得更大些，或者多挖几口水井。但如果所有的水资源都枯竭了，那这种曾经屡试不爽的老办法可能就不适用了。
en:For those of us who are fortunate enoughto live in oneof the world&#39;s great cities,we&#39;ve never truly experiencedthe effects of a catastrophic drought.We like to complainabout the navy showers we have to take.We like our neighbors to seeour dirty cars and our brown lawns.But we&#39;ve never really facedthe prospect of turning on the tapand having nothing come out.And that&#39;s because when thingshave gotten bad in the past,it&#39;s always been possibleto expand a reservoiror dig a few more groundwater wells.Well, in a time when allof the water resources are spoken for,it&#39;s not going to be possibleto rely on this tried and true wayof providing ourselves with water.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:有些人觉得，要解决城市用水问题，从临近的农村取水就好了。但这种方法充满了政治、法律和社会风险。即便我们能从农村取水，那也不过是将问题转嫁到了别人头上，而且很有可能，它会反噬到我们身上要么会抬高食品价格，要么会破坏水生生态系统。
en:Some people think that we&#39;re goingto solve the urban water problemby taking water from our rural neighbors.But that&#39;s an approach that&#39;s fraughtwith political, legal and social dangers.And even if we succeed in grabbingthe water from our rural neighbors,we&#39;re just transferringthe problem to someone elseand there&#39;s a good chanceit will come back and bite usin the form of higher food pricesand damage to the aquatic ecosystemsthat already rely upon that water.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:我认为可以用更好的办法来解决我们的城市用水危机，就是下面我将要说的4种新水源，我把它们比作4个水龙头。在未来数年里，如果我们能对这4种新水源进行明智的投资，我们就能解决城市用水问题，使我们遭遇大旱灾的可能性大大降低。
en:I think that there&#39;s a better wayto solve our urban water crisisand I think that&#39;s to open upfour new local sources of waterthat I liken to faucets.If we can make smart investmentsin these new sources of waterin the coming years,we can solve our urban water problemand decrease the likelihoodthat we&#39;ll ever run acrossthe effects of a catastrophic drought.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:如果在20年前，你告诉我，现代城市可以在没有外来水源的情况下得以发展，我可能会觉得你是痴人说梦。但在过去的几十年里，我一直在世界上最缺水的城市工作，这段经历告诉我，我们的技术和管理能力已经可以不依赖于外来水源，这就是今晚我想跟大家分享的。
en:Now, if you told me 20 years agothat a modern city could existwithout a supply of imported water,I probably would have dismissed youas an unrealistic and uninformed dreamer.But my own experiencesworking with some of the world&#39;s mostwater-starved cities in the last decadeshave shown me that we havethe technologies and the management skillsto actually transition awayfrom imported water,and that&#39;s what I wantto tell you about tonight.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:要解决城市用水问题，我们需要发展的第一种本地新水源就是从天而降的雨水。城市发展带来的最大灾难之一，就是随着城市越变越大，我们将所有地面都用水泥和沥青覆盖起来了。这样一来，我们必须修建巨大的排水管道，将落在城市里的雨水排出去，以免引发洪灾，这对水资源是极大的浪费。让我来举个例子。
en:The first source of local watersupply that we need to developto solve our urban water problemwill flow with the rainwaterthat falls in our cities.One of the great tragediesof urban developmentis that as our cities grew,we started covering all the surfaceswith concrete and asphalt.And when we did that,we had to build storm sewersto get the waterthat fell on the cities outbefore it could cause flooding,and that&#39;s a wasteof a vital water resource.Let me give you an example.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:这张图表显示的是圣何塞市能够收集到的雨水百分比，与收集到的雨水总量间的关系。注意看蓝线和黑虚线相交的地方，如果圣何塞市能收集它降雨量的一半，就足够全市用上一年。
en:This figure here shows youthe volume of waterthat could be collectedin the city of San Joseif they could harvest the stormwaterthat fell within the city limits.You can see from the intersectionof the blue line and the black dotted linethat if San Jose could just capture halfof the water that fell within the city,they&#39;d have enough waterto get them through an entire year.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:我知道，有人可能会想，“那要解决用水问题，只要做一些巨大的储水罐跟屋顶排水沟的落水管连在一起，收集雨水就行了。”这方法在某些地方可能有用。但如果你居住的城市冬天经常下雨，而夏天用水量大，这个方法就不是那么有效了。而且，如果你所处的地方常年干旱，就像今天的加利福尼亚州一样，你做多大的储水罐也解决不了问题。
en:Now, I know what some of youare probably thinking.&quot;The answer to our problemis to start building great big tanksand attaching themto the downspouts of our roof gutters,rainwater harvesting.&quot;Now, that&#39;s an ideathat might work in some places.But if you live in a placewhere it mainly rains in the winter timeand most of the water demandis in the summertime,it&#39;s not a very cost-effective wayto solve a water problem.And if you experience the effectsof a multiyear drought,like California&#39;s currently experiencing,you just can&#39;t build a rainwater tankthat&#39;s big enough to solve your problem.
时间： 5:27
zh-cn:我认为有更加现实的方法来收集城市里的雨水，那就是收集之后，让它渗入地下。这样一来，我们城市的地底下就有了一个天然的储水系统，可以储存大量的水。
en:I think there&#39;s a lot more practical wayto harvest the stormwater andthe rainwater that falls in our cities,and that&#39;s to capture itand let it percolate into the ground.After all, many of our cities are sittingon top of a natural water storage systemthat can accommodatehuge volumes of water.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:比如说，在过去的洛杉矶，它的用水量的三分之一都来自圣费尔南多谷的地下蓄水层。当你看到雨水从房顶滴落，漫过草坪，流进沟渠，你可能会犹豫，“我真的要喝这样的水吗？”毫无疑问，要想喝这水，得先经过处理。因此，在城市里收集（雨）水有三大挑战，收集雨水，清洁雨水，灌入地下。
en:For example, historically,Los Angeles has obtainedabout a third of its water supplyfrom a massive aquiferthat underlies the San Fernando Valley.Now, when you look at the waterthat comes off of your roofand runs off of your lawnand flows down the gutter,you might say to yourself,&quot;Do I really want to drink that stuff?&quot;Well, the answer isyou don&#39;t want to drink ituntil it&#39;s been treated a little bit.And so the challenge that we facein urban water harvestingis to capture the water, clean the waterand get it underground.
时间： 6:16
zh-cn:洛杉矶已经开始这么做了，他们在加利福尼亚州伯班克市新建了一个项目。这是一个雨水收集园区他们将众多雨水收集系统或者排水沟连接起来，将雨水引入一个废弃的采石场。采石场里的水慢慢通过一个人造湿地进入旁边的一个球型区域然后渗入地下，补充洛杉矶的地下蓄水层。
en:And that&#39;s exactlywhat the city of Los Angeles is doingwith a new project that they&#39;re buildingin Burbank, California.This figure here showsthe stormwater park that they&#39;re buildingby hooking a series of stormwatercollection systems, or storm sewers,and routing that waterinto an abandoned gravel quarry.The water that&#39;s captured in the quarryis slowly passedthrough a man-made wetland,and then it goesinto that ball field thereand percolates into the ground,recharging the drinking wateraquifer of the city.
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:这些水在穿过湿地渗入地下的过程中，会接触到生活在植物和土壤表面的微生物，它们能净化水。如果水在经过自然净化处理后，还是不能直接饮用，管理人员会把从地下蓄水层抽出来的水进行二次处理然后再供市民饮用。
en:And in the processof passing through the wetlandand percolating through the ground,the water encounters microbesthat live on the surfaces of the plantsand the surfaces of the soil,and that purifies the water.And if the water&#39;sstill not clean enough to drinkafter it&#39;s been throughthis natural treatment process,the city can treat it againwhen they pump if back outof the groundwater aquifersbefore they deliver it to people to drink.
时间： 7:13
zh-cn:解决城市用水问题的第二个水龙头是来自污水处理厂处理过的废水。大家对于循环水应该已经不陌生了。你们也许都见过这样的牌子上面写着灌木丛、高速公路隔离绿化带本地高尔夫球场的灌溉用水都来自污水处理系统。几十年来我们都是这么做的。但几十年的经验告诉我们，这样做的成本比我们预期的要高。因为一旦我们在污水处理厂附近建起水循环系统，我们就不得不建造越来越长的管网把水送到需要的地方去。这笔开销真心不小。
en:The second tap that we need to open upto solve our urban water problemwill flow with the wastewaterthat comes outof our sewage treatment plants.Now, many of you are probably familiarwith the concept of recycled water.You&#39;ve probably seen signs like thisthat tell you that the shrubberyand the highway medianand the local golf courseis being watered with waterthat used to bein a sewage treatment plant.We&#39;ve been doing thisfor a couple of decades now.But what we&#39;re learningfrom our experienceis that this approach is much moreexpensive that we expected it to be.Because once we buildthe first few water recycling systemsclose to the sewage treatment plant,we have to build longerand longer pipe networksto get that water to where it needs to go.And that becomes prohibitivein terms of cost.
时间： 8:00
zh-cn:我们发现，更加经济实惠和可行的办法是将处理过的废水变成饮用水，只需要两步。第一步是给水加压，让它通过反向渗透膜——一种很薄的、可渗透的塑料膜——水分子可以通过，但废水中可能含有的盐、病毒和有机化学物会被拦截下来。
en:What we&#39;re finding isthat a much more cost-effectiveand practical way of recycling wastewateris to turn treated wastewaterinto drinking waterthrough a two-step process.In the first step in this processwe pressurize the waterand pass it througha reverse osmosis membrane:a thin, permeable plastic membranethat allows water moleculesto pass throughbut traps and retains the salts,the viruses and the organic chemicalsthat might be present in the wastewater.
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:第二步，我们往水里加入少量的过氧化氢然后用紫外线进行照射。紫外线能将过氧化氢分裂成两部分，称为氢氧基，氢氧基是一种非常强的氧气形式能够消灭大部分有机化学物。
en:In the second step in the process,we add a small amount of hydrogen peroxideand shine ultraviolet light on the water.The ultraviolet lightcleaves the hydrogen peroxideinto two parts that are calledhydroxyl radicals,and these hydroxyl radicalsare very potent forms of oxygenthat break down most organic chemicals.
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:水经过这两步处理之后，就可以安全饮用了。过去15年里，我一直在运用现代科学的各种测量方法来研究循环水。我们发现某些化学物质无法在步骤一被过滤掉，但经过第二步：高级氧化过程之后，几乎没有化学物质能残留下来。这比我们一直喝的“毫无问题”的水可安全多了。
en:After the water&#39;s beenthrough this two-stage process,it&#39;s safe to drink.I know,I&#39;ve been studying recycled waterusing every measurement techniqueknown to modern sciencefor the past 15 years.We&#39;ve detected some chemicalsthat can make it throughthe first step in the process,but by the time we get to the second step,the advanced oxidation process,we rarely see any chemicals present.And that&#39;s in stark contrastto the taken-for-granted water suppliesthat we regularly drink all the time.
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:还有另外一种方法来循环水。这是我们最近修建的人工湿地位于加利福尼亚州南部的圣安娜河上。圣安娜河的部分河水流入人工湿地，每到夏天，圣安娜河里就全是污水，都来自里弗赛德市和圣贝纳迪诺市。河水流入我们的人工湿地，在阳光暴晒和水藻的作用下，有机化学物被分解，营养物被消耗，水生病原体被杀死。之后河水流回圣安娜河，流向安纳海姆市，河水在那里被抽出，渗入地下，成为安纳海姆市的饮用水，通过这一过程，里弗赛德郡的废水就变成了橙郡的饮用水。
en:There&#39;s another way we can recycle water.This is an engineered treatment wetlandthat we recently builton the Santa Ana Riverin Southern California.The treatment wetland receives waterfrom a part of the Santa Ana Riverthat in the summertime consistsalmost entirely of wastewater effluentfrom cities like Riversideand San Bernardino.The water comesinto our treatment wetland,it&#39;s exposed to sunlight and algaeand those break downthe organic chemicals,remove the nutrientsand inactivate the waterborne pathogens.The water gets put backin the Santa Ana River,it flows down to Anaheim,gets taken out at Anaheimand percolated into the ground,and becomes the drinking waterof the city of Anaheim,completing the tripfrom the sewers of Riverside Countyto the drinking water supplyof Orange County.
时间：10:09
zh-cn:也许你们会觉得，将废水变成饮用水，只是天方夜谭，或者还没有得到推广。实际上，运用我刚刚介绍的两步处理法，我们每年在加利福尼亚州循环利用的水达到了1.5亿立方米。这些水足够供应100万人，作为他们的主要水源。
en:Now, you might thinkthat this idea of drinking wastewateris some sort of futuristic fantasyor not commonly done.Well, in California, we already recycleabout 40 billion gallons a yearof wastewater through the two-stageadvanced treatment processI was telling you about.That&#39;s enough water to bethe supply of about a million peopleif it were their sole water supply.
时间：10:31
zh-cn:我们的第三个水龙头并不是实体，而是虚拟的，指的是节约用水。而且主要指的是户外用水，因为在加利福尼亚以及其他的美国都市，差不多一半的用水发生在户外。
en:The third tap that we need to open upwill not be a tap at all,it will be a kind of virtual tap,it will be the water conservationthat we manage to do.And the place where we need to thinkabout water conservation is outdoorsbecause in Californiaand other modern American cities,about half of our water usehappens outdoors.
时间：10:50
zh-cn:即使在现在的干旱状态下，我们的用水量下降了一半，但我们的草坪，我们的植物还是活下来了。因此我们还没到把水泥地喷成绿色，或者改铺人工草皮，改种仙人掌的地步。在土壤湿度探测器和智能浇灌系统的帮助下，加州式园林不是梦，我们的城市依旧可以绿意盎然。
en:In the current drought,we&#39;ve seen that it&#39;s possibleto have our lawns surviveand our plants survivewith about half as much water.So there&#39;s no needto start painting concrete greenand putting in Astroturfand buying cactuses.We can have California-friendlylandscaping with soil moisture detectorsand smart irrigation controllersand have beautifulgreen landscapes in our cities.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:我们需要打开的第四个，也是最后一个水龙头，来解决城市用水问题，是海水淡化。也许你们听人们谈论过海水淡化，“海水淡化是很好，前提是你石油多、淡水少，而且也不在乎气候变化。”没错，海水淡化是一项能源密集型产业。但如果仅仅因为这样，就将海水淡化视为没有前途，那就太落伍了。在过去20年间，我们在海水淡化上已经取得了巨大进展。
en:The fourth and final water tapthat we need to open upto solve our urban water problemwill flow with desalinated seawater.Now, I know what you probably heardpeople say about seawater desalination.&quot;It&#39;s a great thing to do if you havelots of oil, not a lot of waterand you don&#39;t care about climate change.&quot;Seawater desalination is energy-intensiveno matter how you slice it.But that characterizationof seawater desalinationas being a nonstarteris hopelessly out of date.We&#39;ve made tremendous progressin seawater desalinationin the past two decades.
时间：11:47
zh-cn:这张照片上是在建的西半球最大的海水淡化厂，位于圣地亚哥市以北。与25年前建在圣巴巴拉市的海水淡化厂相比，这家海水淡化厂每生产一加仑淡水的能耗下降了一半。
en:This picture shows youthe largest seawater desalination plantin the Western hemispherethat&#39;s currently being builtnorth of San Diego.Compared to the seawaterdesalination plantthat was built inSanta Barbara 25 years ago,this treatment plantwill use about half the energyto produce a gallon of water.
时间：12:06
zh-cn:当然，海水淡化的能耗降低了，并不意味着我们就该到处建海水淡化厂。在我们的众多选择中，在4种新水源中，海水淡化依然是能耗最大，最有可能对环境造成危害的。
en:But just because seawater desalinationhas become less energy-intensive,doesn&#39;t mean we should start buildingdesalination plants everywhere.Among the different choices we have,it&#39;s probably the most energy-intensiveand potentially environmentally damagingof the options to createa local water supply.
时间：12:23
zh-cn:综上所述，有了这4种新水源，我们不用再依赖进口水。通过改进我们绿化城市和居民区的方法，我们可以将户外用水量下降50%，因此提高25%的供水量。我们可以循环利用废水，以此提高40%供水量。我们可以综合利用雨水收集和海水淡化。
en:So there it is.With these four sources of water,we can move awayfrom our reliance on imported water.Through reform in the way we landscapeour surfaces and our properties,we can reduce outdoor water useby about 50 percent,thereby increasing the water supply by 25 percent.We can recycle the waterthat makes it into the sewer,thereby increasingour water supply by 40 percent.And we can make up the differencethrough a combinationof stormwater harvestingand seawater desalination.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:让我们来创造稳定的水源供应，足以在未来几年承受气候变化给我们带来的挑战。让我们充分利用本地水源，将更多的水留给环境，留给动物，留给食物。让我们创造环境友好型的供水系统。让我们为子孙后代而努力，告诉他们，在未来的岁月里，他们也应该珍视这个系统因为这是我们创建新型供水系统最后的机会。
en:So, let&#39;s create a water supplythat will be ableto withstand any of the challengesthat climate change throws at usin the coming years.Let&#39;s create a water supplythat uses local sourcesand leaves more waterin the environment for fish and for food.Let&#39;s create a water system that&#39;sconsistent with out environmental values.And let&#39;s do it for our childrenand our grandchildrenand let&#39;s tell them this is the systemthat they have totake care of in the futurebecause it&#39;s our last chanceto create a new kind of water system.
时间：13:30
zh-cn:非常感谢大家。
en:Thank you very much for your attention.
时间：13:32
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
