时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在17世纪，一位叫Giulia Tofana的女士有一份很成功的香水生意。她这份生意经营了50多年。后来她因谋杀600人而被处决——（笑声）她的生意也戛然而止。看来她的香水不怎么好。事实上，她的香水完全无香、无味、无色，但那可是用钱能买到的最好的毒药，女人们蜂拥购买她的香水，来毒死她们的丈夫。
en:In the 17th century, a woman named Giulia Tofanahad a very successful perfume business.For over 50 years she ran it.It sort of ended abruptly when she was executed — (Laughter) —for murdering 600 men. You see, it wasn&#39;t a very good perfume.In fact, it was completely odorless and tasteless and colorless,but as a poison, it was the best money could buy,so women flocked to her in order to murder their husbands.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:事实上下毒者是一个十分被重视和被惧怕的群体，因为毒死一个人可不是什么容易事。原因是，我们体内有种毒药检测器。即使是新生婴儿都已经能利用这个检测器。如果你愿意试一下的话，你可以喂他两滴苦的东西或者酸的东西，你就会看到这张脸，舌头伸着，鼻子皱着，好像是想要把嘴里的东西吐出来。这个反应会延续到成年，成为一种成熟的恶心反应，不仅仅只在我们马上就要被毒到的时候，而是在只要周边存在有对我们身体有毒害的威胁时。但是那种表情和以前惊人得相似。不过这种毒品检测范围远远扩大了。它不进让我们远离身体毒素，越来越多的证据表明，事实上，这种厌恶的感情还影响我们的道德信仰，甚至还影响我们内心深处的政治直觉。
en:It turns out that poisoners were a valued and feared group,because poisoning a human being is a quite difficult thing.The reason is, we have sort of a built-in poison detector.You can see this as early as even in newborn infants.If you are willing to do this, you can take a couple of dropsof a bitter substance or a sour substance,and you&#39;ll see that face, the tongue stick out, the wrinkled nose,as if they&#39;re trying to get rid of what&#39;s in their mouth.This reaction expands into adulthood and becomessort of a full-blown disgust response, no longer justabout whether or not we&#39;re about to be poisoned,but whenever there&#39;s a threat of physical contaminationfrom some source. But the face remains strikingly similar.It has expanded more, though, than just keeping us awayfrom physical contaminants, and there&#39;s a growingbody of evidence to suggest that, in fact, this emotionof disgust now influences our moral beliefsand even our deeply held political intuitions.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:为什么会这样呢？要理解这个过程，我们得先了解一点关于情感的小知识。人类的基本情感，那些我们和所有其他人类都共有的情感，之所以存在，是因为它们激励我们做好事，防止我们做坏事。一般来讲，它们对我们的存活是有益的。比如说恐惧这种情感。它防止我们做一些真的非常冒险的事情。这张照片是在他生前最后一张照片——（笑声）事实上是——不，这张照片很有趣的一个原因是大多数人是不会这么做的，如果他们这么做了，他们不会活下来讲这个故事的，因为恐惧是早早惊到这个自然天敌。就像恐惧能保护到我们，厌恶好像有同样功能，只是厌恶不是防止我们靠近可能会吃掉我们的东西，或者高度，而且可能会毒到我们的东西，或者让我们生病的东西。厌恶这种感情之所以这么有趣的原因之一就是我们非常、非常容易产生这种感情，事实上，厌恶的产生恐怕比其他任何基本感情都容易我接下来要给大家展示，只用两张图片，我就很可能让你觉得恶心。转过身去。我会告诉什么时候你能转回来。（笑声）
en:Why this might be the case?We can understand this process by understandinga little bit about emotions in general. So the basic human emotions,those kinds of emotions that we share with all other human beings,exist because they motivate us to do good thingsand they keep us away from doing bad things.So by and large, they are good for our survival.Take the emotion of fear, for instance. It keeps us awayfrom doing things that are really, really risky.This photo taken just before his death — (Laughter) —is actually a — No, one reason this photo is interestingis because most people would not do this, and if they did,they would not live to tell it, because fear would havekicked in a long time ago to a natural predator.Just like fear offers us protective benefits, disgust seemsto do the same thing, except for what disgust does iskeeps us away from not things that might eat us,or heights, but rather things that might poison us,or give us disease and make us sick.So one of the features of disgust that makes it suchan interesting emotion is that it&#39;s very, very easy to elicit,in fact more so than probably any of the other basic emotions,and so I&#39;m going to show you that with a couple of imagesI can probably make you feel disgust.So turn away. I&#39;ll tell you when you can turn back.(Laughter)
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:你每天都会看到它，对吧？拜托。（笑声）
en:I mean, you see it every day, right? I mean, come on. (Laughter)
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:（观众：咦。）
en:(Audience: Ewww.)
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:好了，转回来吧，如果你没有看的话。
en:Okay, turn back, if you didn&#39;t look.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:这两张图片恐怕让在座许多人都感觉非常、非常恶心，但如果你没有看，我可以告诉其他一些在世界范围都能让人觉得恶心的东西，比如说排泄物、血、腐烂的肉。我们确实有理由远离这些东西，因为它们真的可能会毒害我们。事实上，仅仅是有张生病的外表或奇怪的性行为，这些东西也能让我们觉得很恶心。
en:Those probably made a lot of you in the audiencefeel very, very disgusted, but if you didn&#39;t look,I can tell you about some of the other things that have been shownsort of across the world to make people disgusted,things like feces, urine, blood, rotten flesh.These are the sorts of things that it makes sensefor us to stay away from, because they might actually contaminate us.In fact, just having a diseased appearanceor odd sexual acts, these things are alsothings that give us a lot of disgust.
时间： 3:33
zh-cn:达尔文恐怕是最早系统研究人类感情的科学家之一，他指出了厌恶反应的普片性质和力量。他的南美之行有则轶事，
en:Darwin was probably one of the first scientiststo systematically investigate the human emotions,and he pointed to the universal nature and the strengthof the disgust response.This is an anecdote from his travels in South America.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:“在火地列岛，一个当地人用他的手指摸了我正在吃的冷藏肉，他很明白地表示了他对肉的柔软的厌恶，而我却因我的食物被一个裸体蛮人触摸而恶心——（笑声）——尽管他的手看起来并不脏。”他之后写道：“没有关系，我的一些最好的朋友也是裸体蛮人。”（笑声）
en:&quot;In Tierro del Fuego a native touched with his fingersome cold preserved meat while I was eating ...and plainly showed disgust at its softness, whilst I feltutter disgust at my food being touched by a naked savage — (Laughter) —though his hands did not appear dirty.&quot;He later wrote, &quot;It&#39;s okay, some of my best friends are naked savages.&quot; (Laughter)
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:事实上过于拘谨的不仅仅是这些过去的英国科学家。近期为了拍一个纪录片，我有机会和Richard Dawkins聊了聊，我好几次都成功地恶心到他。这个是我最喜欢的。
en:Well it turns out it&#39;s not only old-timey British scientistswho are this squeamish. I recently got a chanceto talk to Richard Dawkins for a documentary,and I was able to disgust him a bunch of times. Here&#39;s my favorite.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:Richard Dawkins说过：“我们因求偶和性而进化，牵挂那些刻骨的、不能一夜之后就抛却脑后的感情和反应。”
en:Richard Dawkins: &quot;We&#39;ve evolved around courtship and sex,are attached to deep-rooted emotions and reactionsthat are hard to jettison overnight.&quot;
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:David Pizarro：在这个视频中我最喜欢的部分是Dawkins教授堵住了他的嘴。他撤退，堵嘴，我们不得不做了三次，三次他都堵嘴了。（笑声）他真的把嘴堵上了。我真得以为他会呕吐到我身上。
en:David Pizarro: So my favorite part of this clip is thatProfessor Dawkins actually gagged.He jumps back, and he gags, and we had to do it three times,and all three times he gagged. (Laughter)And he was really gagging. I thought he might throw up on me, actually.
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:厌恶的特点之一，不仅仅是它的普遍性和强度，而是它能传递。如果一个恶习的东西碰了一个干净的东西，那个干净的东西也变恶心了，而不是恶心的变干净。这是一个很有用的策略，在你想说服某人一个东西或是一个人或是一个群体是很恶心的，要避开。哲学家Martha Nussbaum就说过：“整个历史中，一些特定的令人厌恶的东西——滑溜，腐蚀，卑鄙——被一而再、自动地和犹太人、女人、同性恋、不可触摸的人、底层的人联系在一起，和那些想象中被身体的污浊玷污了的人。我来给大家讲几个历史上利用这种心理的有力的例子。这段话摘自一本纳粹1938出版的儿童书：”看看这些人！跳蚤丛生的胡子，肮脏的、突出的耳朵，染色的、油腻的衣服......犹太人通常有种带甜味的体味。如果你鼻子灵敏的话，你能闻到他们。“一个更近点的例子是一些人试图说服我们，说同性恋是不道德的。这段话摘自一个反同性恋网站，他们说同性恋”因为他们肮脏的性行为值得去死。“他们像“吃自己呕吐物的狗，翻滚在自己的粪便中的母猪。”这些人试图把这些令人厌恶的东西直接跟不被喜欢的社会群体上挂钩。
en:One of the features, though, of disgust,is not just its universality and its strength,but the way that it works through association.So when one disgusting thing touches a clean thing,that clean thing becomes disgusting, not the other way around.This makes it very useful as a strategy if you want toconvince somebody that an object or an individualor an entire social group is disgusting and should be avoided.The philosopher Martha Nussbaum points this outin this quote: &quot;Thus throughout history, certain disgustproperties — sliminess, bad smell, stickiness, decay, foulness —have been repeatedly and monotonously been associated with ...Jews, women, homosexuals, untouchables, lower-class people —all of those are imagined as tainted by the dirt of the body.&quot;Let me give you just some examples of how, some powerfulexamples of how this has been used historically.This comes from a Nazi children&#39;s book published in 1938:&quot;Just look at these guys! The louse-infested beards,the filthy, protruding ears, those stained, fatty clothes...Jews often have an unpleasant sweetish odor.If you have a good nose, you can smell the Jews.&quot;A more modern example comes from people who try toconvince us that homosexuality is immoral.This is from an anti-gay website, where they saidgays are &quot;worthy of death for their vile ... sex practices.&quot;They&#39;re like &quot;dogs eating their own vomit and sows wallowing in their own feces.&quot;These are disgust properties that are trying to be directlylinked to the social group that you should not like.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:当我们刚开始研究厌恶在道德审判中的作用时，我们很感兴趣的事情之一是这种策略是否更容易在那些更容易被恶心到的人身上起作用。尽管厌恶和其他基本情感一样是普遍现象，确实有些人比其他人更容易被恶心到。大家可能在我展示那些恶心的图片时就在观众群中注意到了。我们测量得方法是使用一个其他心理学家建的尺量，我们提出各种各样的情况，让人们标记他们被恶心到的可能性。我来举两个例子。“即使我很饿，我也不会喝一碗我最喜欢的汤，如果这碗汤被一个用过但完全清洗过的苍蝇拍搅过。”“你同意还是不同意？”（笑声）“当你走过一段铁轨下的通道时，你闻到尿液的味道。你会感到非常恶心还是不会恶心？”如果你回答的问题足够多，你差不多能知道你的恶心敏感度有多少。这个度数事实上非常有意义。当你带人到实验室，问他们是否愿意进行安全但恶心的行为比如吃看起来像狗屎的巧克力，或者像在这个例子中，吃非常健康但很恶心的肉虫，你的恶心敏感度能预测出你是否愿意进行这些行为。
en:When we were first investigating the role of disgust inmoral judgment, one of the things we became interested inwas whether or not these sorts of appeals are more likelyto work in individuals who are more easily disgusted.So while disgust, along with the other basic emotions,are universal phenomena, it just really is truethat some people are easier to disgust than others.You could probably see it in the audience memberswhen I showed you those disgusting images.The way that we measured this was by a scale that wasconstructed by some other psychologiststhat simply asked people across a wide variety of situationshow likely they are to feel disgust.So here are a couple of examples.&quot;Even if I were hungry, I would not drink a bowl of myfavorite soup if it had been stirred by a used but thoroughly washed fly-swatter.&quot;&quot;Do you agree or disagree?&quot; (Laughter)&quot;While you are walking through a tunnel under a railroad track,you smell urine. Would you be very disgusted or not at all disgusted?&quot;If you ask enough of these, you can get a general overallscore of disgust sensitivity.It turns out that this score is actually meaningful.When you bring people into the laboratory and you askthem if they&#39;re willing to engage in safe but disgusting behaviorslike eating chocolate that&#39;s been baked to look like dog poop,or in this case eating some mealworms that are perfectly healthy but pretty gross,your score on that scale actually predicts whether or notyou&#39;ll be willing to engage in those behaviors.
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:我们第一次去收集这些数据，把它们和政治或道德信仰联系起来时，我们发现一个普遍规律——这个是和心理学家Yoel Inbar和Paul Bloom提出的——在三项研究中，我们都发现那些更容易被恶心到的人在政治上也更为保守。换钟说法，就是自由派很不容易被恶心到。（笑声）
en:The first time that we set out to collect data on thisand associate it with political or moral beliefs,we found a general pattern —this is with the psychologists Yoel Inbar and Paul Bloom —that in fact, across three studies we kept findingthat people who reported that they were easily disgustedalso reported that they were more politically conservative.Another way to say this, though, is that peoplewho are very liberal are very hard to disgust. (Laughter)
时间： 7:54
zh-cn:在一项后续研究中，我们得以研究一个大得多的样本。在这个研究中，有近3万的美国人答复，我们发现了同样的规律。大家可以看到，政治上非常保守的人在是否容易被恶心到时要更容易得多。这个数据库还让我们得以在数据上控制一些我们已经知道的、和政治取向及恶心敏感度都相关的因素。我们控制了性别、年龄、收入、教育、甚至基本性格这些变量，结果是不变的。
en:In a more recent follow-up study, we were able to look ata much greater sample, a much larger sample. In this case,this is nearly 30,000 U.S. respondents,and we find the same pattern. As you can see,people who are on the very conservative sideof answering the political orientation scale arealso much more likely to report that they&#39;re easily disgusted.This data set also allowed us to statistically controlfor a number of things that we knew were both relatedto political orientation and to disgust sensitivity.So we were able to control for gender, age, income,education, even basic personality variables,and the result stays the same.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:当我们研究投票行为，而不是自报的政治倾向时，我们得以在地理上研究整个国家的人。我们发现，在居民说自己的恶心敏感度高的地区，麦凯恩得到更多选票。恶心敏感度不仅预测到自报的政治倾向，还能预测到实际的投票行为。通过这个样本，我们还能研究世界范围的行为。在121个不同的国家，我们都问了同样的问题，大家可以看到，这121个国家划分为了10个不同的地理区域。不管你看的是哪一个，这个图画的都是恶心敏感度和政治倾向间的关系，不管我们看的是哪个地区，我们都看到同样的效应。其他实验室也研究过这个课题，用不同的方法测量恶心敏感度，他们不是问实验参与者他们有多容易被恶心到，而是用生理测量，在这个研究中用的是皮肤电导。他们发现，那些说自己在政治上更保守的人，在看到那些我展示给你们的图片时也更容易有生理反应。有趣的是，他们也发现了一个我们在我们之前的研究中也总会得到的现象，就是那些非常容易产生厌恶的人不仅在政治上更可能是保守派，也更可能反对同性恋婚姻和同性恋，及在性方面的大部分的社会道德问题。在这项研究中，生理反应预测到实验参与者对同性恋婚姻的态度。
en:When we actually looked at not just self-reported political orientation,but voting behavior, we were able to look geographicallyacross the nation. What we found was that in regionsin which people reported high levels of disgust sensitivity,McCain got more votes.So it not only predicted self-reported political orientation,but actual voting behavior. And also we were able,with this sample, to look across the world,in 121 different countries we asked the same questions,and as you can see, this is 121 countries collapsedinto 10 different geographical regions.No matter where you look, what this is plotting is the sizeof the relationship between disgust sensitivity and political orientation,and no matter where we looked, we saw a very similar effect.Other labs have actually looked at this as wellusing different measures of disgust sensitivity,so rather than asking people how easily disgusted they are,they hook people up to physiological measures,in this case skin conductance.And what they&#39;ve demonstrated is that people who reportbeing more politically conservative are also more physiologically arousedwhen you show them disgusting images like the ones that I showed you.Interestingly, what they also showed in a findingthat we kept getting in our previous studies as wellwas that one of the strongest influences here is thatindividuals who are very disgust-sensitive not only aremore likely to report being politically conservative, butthey&#39;re also very much more opposed to gay marriageand homosexuality and pretty much a lot ofthe socio-moral issues in the sexual domain.So physiological arousal predicted, in this study,attitudes toward gay marriage.
时间：10:03
zh-cn:但即使我们有这么多把恶心敏感度和政治倾向联系在一起的数据，一个仍未解决的问题是：其中的因果关联是什么。难道说厌恶真的塑造政治和道德信仰么？我们需要用实验方法来回答这个问题，我们能做的是把实验参与者带到实验室，恶心他们，把他们和没有被恶心的控制变量组进行比较。在过去的5年里，有不少研究人员都做了这样的研究，普遍上说结果是一致的，当人们感觉恶心时，他们的政治倾向会向右倾斜，在道德上也更保守。不管你使用的是一种难闻的气味，一种难吃的味道，用视频，用催眠后的恶心暗示，用我之前展示给大家的那种图片，甚至只是提醒大家疾病无处不在、要保持警惕、保持清洁，这些都对人们的判断有相似的影响。
en:But even with all these data linking disgust sensitivityand political orientation, one of the questions that remains iswhat is the causal link here? Is it the case thatdisgust really is shaping political and moral beliefs?We have to resort to experimental methods to answer this,and so what we can do is actually bring people into the laband disgust them and compare them to a control groupthat hasn&#39;t been disgusted. It turns out that overthe past five years a number of researchers have done this,and by and large the results have all been the same,that when people are feeling disgust, their attitudesshift towards the right of the political spectrum,toward more moral conservatism as well.So this is whether you use a foul odor, a bad taste,from film clips, from post-hypnotic suggestions of disgust,images like the ones I&#39;ve shown you, even justreminding people that disease is prevalent and they shouldbe wary of it and wash up, right, to keep clean,these all have similar effects on judgment.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:我来给大家一个例子，这个例子摘自我们近期进行的一个实验。我们请实验参与者告诉我们他们对不同的社会群体的看法，我们让屋子要么难闻要么不难闻。当屋子难闻的时候，我们发现实验参与者对同性恋的态度更负面。恶心不影响参与者对所以其他社会群体的态度，包括非裔美国人，老人。它只对参与者对同性恋的态度有影响。在另一组研究中我们仅仅是简单地提醒参与者——那段时间猪流感正盛行——我们提醒人们为了防止流感传播他们应该洗手。对于一些参与者，我们让他们在一个提醒大家要勤洗手的标志旁填调查问卷。我们发现仅仅是在这个洗手提示牌边上填写调查问卷就会让参与者报告说他们在政治上更为保守。当我们问他们关于某些行为正确与否的问题时，我们还发现仅仅是提醒他们洗手就让他们在道德上更保守。特别是在我们问到忌讳但是无害的性行为时，提醒他们要洗手就会让他们觉得这些行为在道德上更为错误。我来给大家一个无害但忌讳的性行为的例子。我们给实验参与者不同的情景。其中之一是一个男人在帮他的祖母看家。在他祖母不在的时候，他和他的女朋友在他祖母的床上性交。在另一个情景中，我们说一个女人喜欢搂着她最喜欢的泰迪熊手淫。（笑声）实验参与者在被提醒要洗手时，会觉得这些行为更可恶。（笑声）（笑声）
en:Let me just give you an example from a recent studythat we conducted. We asked participantsto just simply give us their opinion of a variety of social groups,and we either made the room smell gross or not.When the room smelled gross, what we saw was thatindividuals actually reported more negative attitudes toward gay men.Disgust didn&#39;t influence attitudes toward all the othersocial groups that we asked, including African-Americans,the elderly. It really came down to the attitudes they hadtoward gay men.In another set of studies we actually simply reminded people —this was at a time when the swine flu was going around —we reminded people that in order to prevent the spreadof the flu that they ought to wash their hands.For some participants, we actually had them take questionnairesnext to a sign that reminded them to wash their hands.And what we found was that just taking a questionnairenext to this hand-sanitizing reminder made individualsreport being more politically conservative.And when we asked them a variety of questions aboutthe rightness or wrongness of certain acts, what we alsofound was that simply being reminded that they oughtto wash their hands made them more morally conservative.In particular, when we asked them questions aboutsort of taboo but fairly harmless sexual practices,just being reminded that they ought to wash their handsmade them think that they were more morally wrong.Let me give you an example of what I mean by harmlessbut taboo sexual practice. We gave them scenarios.One of them said a man is house-sitting for his grandmother.When his grandmother&#39;s away, he has sex with his girlfriendon his grandma&#39;s bed.In another one, we said a woman enjoys masturbatingwith her favorite teddy bear cuddled next to her. (Laughter)People find these to be more morally abhorrentif they&#39;ve been reminded to wash their hands. (Laughter)(Laughter)
时间：12:50
zh-cn:好吧。情感影响我们的判断这点不足吃惊。我的意思是，情感就是这样的。它们不仅促使你按某些特定行为做事，还改变你的思考方式。在厌恶这个例子中，稍微有点令人吃惊的是它的影响范围。这很合理，厌恶是一个非常好的情感，它能让我在毒害可能存在时改变我对物理世界的感知方式。但一种防止我吃下毒药的情感能预测我会在接下来的总统竞选中给谁投票这就没什么道理了。
en:Okay. The fact that emotions influence our judgmentshould come as no surprise. I mean,that&#39;s part of how emotions work.They not only motivate you to behave in certain ways,but they change the way you think.In the case of disgust, what is a little bit more surprisingis the scope of this influence. It makes perfect sense,and it&#39;s a very good emotion for us to have, that disgustwould make me change the way that I perceivethe physical world whenever contamination is possible.It makes less sense that an emotion that was builtto prevent me from ingesting poison should predictwho I&#39;m going to vote for in the upcoming presidential election.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:厌恶是否应该影响我们的道德和政治判断，这个问题很复杂，也许和我们说的判断到底是什么判断有关，作为一个科学家，我们不得不断定，有时候，科学方法没有良好的装备来回答这些问题。但我很肯定的一点是，至少，我们靠这个研究能做的是指出什么样的问题是我们应该先提出的。谢谢。（掌声）
en:The question of whether disgust ought to influenceour moral and political judgmentscertainly has to be complex, and might depend on exactlywhat judgments we&#39;re talking about, and as a scientist,we have to conclude sometimes that the scientific methodis just ill-equipped to answer these sorts of questions.But one thing that I am fairly certain about is,at the very least, what we can do with this research ispoint to what questions we ought to ask in the first place.Thank you. (Applause)
