时间： 0:12
zh-cn:有人曾说过：“政治，”当然地，“是丑陋的人的演艺圈。”因此，基于此评价，我在这个圈子从政。我认为该想到的另一件事是，作为一位政客，来TED演说是一个多么大的荣誉，尤其是在这里英国，在这个政客的声誉因为开支丑闻降到如此之低的国家。
en:Someone once said that politics is, of course, &quot;showbiz for ugly people.&quot;So, on that basis, I feel like I&#39;ve really arrived.The other thing to think of is what an honor it is, as a politician,to give a TED talk, particularly here in the U.K.,where the reputation of politics, with the expenses scandal, has sunk so low.
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:最近甚至还有一个故事，说科学家已经想到真正地要用政客来取代实验室的老鼠。有人问：“为什么？”于是他们回答：“嗯，我们从来不缺政客，而且没有人真正关心他们身上发生了什么事。再有，毕竟有一些事情是老鼠完全没法做的。”（笑声）
en:There was even a story recently that scientists had thought aboutactually replacing rats in their experiments with politicians.And someone asked,&quot;Why?&quot;and they said, &quot;Well, there&#39;s no shortage of politicians,no one really minds what happens to themand, after all, there are some things that rats just won&#39;t do.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:现在，我知道大家喜欢数据，所以我将以丰富的数据幻灯片开始。我认为，这个是在英国政治或美国政治中需要铭记的最重要事实。那就是：我们已经入不敷出了。我们有大量的预算赤字。这是我们全球公共债务时钟，正如你们看到的，32万亿，而且还在不停地计数。
en:Now, I know you all love data, so I&#39;m starting with a data-rich slide.This, I think, is the most important fact to bear in mindin British politics or American politics,and that is: We have run out of money.We have vast budget deficits.This is my global public debt clock,and, as you can see, it&#39;s 32 trillion and counting.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:我认为，这个让我们知道一个非常简单的共识：在当前，政治上有一个高于一切的难题那就是：我们如何能花很少的钱但把事情做得更好？因为不会再有大量的钱来改善公共服务或者用来改善政府，或者用来改善政治家们谈论的如此之多的事情。因此紧接着的后果就是，如果你认为这一切完全是基于钱，如果你只能通过花费更多的钱来衡量公共服务的成功，来衡量卫生保健和教育以及警力治安的成功，如果你只能通过花钱多少来衡量进步的话，那你将会有一个相当悲惨的时期。
en:And I think what this leads tois a very simple recognition,that there&#39;s one question in politics at the moment above all other,and it&#39;s this one: How do we make things better without spending more money?Because there isn&#39;t going to be a lot of money to improve public services,or to improve government, or to improve so many of the thingsthat politicians talk about.So what follows from that is that if you think it&#39;s all about money —you can only measure success in public servicesin health care and education and policing by spending more money,you can only measure progress by spending money —you&#39;re going to have a pretty miserable time.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:但是如果你想一想其它一大堆重要的、能带来幸福的事情，比如你的家庭关系，友情，社区，价值观，那么，实际上，这是一个难以置信地激动人心的政治时刻。我今晚想要论证的观点真的很简单，这个坦诚易懂的观点就是：如果我们把正确的政治哲学，正确的政治思考和已经发生的不可思议的信息革命结合起来，而关于这个信息革命大家知道得比我多得多。我认为这将会得到一个可以真正改造政治、改造政府、改造公共服务的难以置信的好机会，并且如幻灯片上所言使人们福利幸福大幅提升。这就是我今晚想要论证的观点。
en:But if you think a whole lot of other things matter that lead up to well being —things like your family relationships, friendship, community, values —then, actually, this is an incredibly exciting time to be in politics.And the really simple argument I want to make tonight,the really straightforward argument is this:That if we combine the right political philosophy, the right political thinking,with the incredible information revolution that has taken place,and that all of you know so much more about than I do,I think there&#39;s an incredible opportunity to actually remake politics,remake government, remake public services,and achieve what&#39;s up on that slide, which is a big increase in our well-being.That&#39;s the argument I want to make tonight.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:那么，从政治哲学开始我现在不是说英国保守党就拥有解决问题的方案。我们当然没有。但是我认为保守党哲学有两个核心东西，它们跟今天讨论的真的很有关联。第一件：我们相信如果你赋予人民更多的权利去掌控他们自己的生活，如果你给予人民更多的选择，如果你把他们放到驾驶座上，驾驭自己的人生，那么，事实上，你便能创建一个更强大更美好的社会。并且，如果你把这个事实和当今世界我们拥有的难以置信的丰富信息结合起来，正如我已经说过的，我认为你可以彻底地改造政治，改造政府，改造大众公共服务。
en:So, starting with the political philosophy.Now I&#39;m not saying for a minute that British Conservatives have all the answers.Of course we don&#39;t.But there are two things at heart that I think drive a conservative philosophythat are really relevant to this whole debate.The first is this: We believe that if you give peoplemore power and control over their lives,if you give people more choice,if you put them in the driving seat,then actually, you can create a stronger and better society.And if you marry this fact with the incredible abundanceof information that we have in our world today,I think you can completely, as I&#39;ve said,remake politics, remake government, remake your public services.
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:我们相信的第二件：我们相信应该顺应人类的天性。政治和政治家们只有真正地了解人民自己真实的想法来对待人民，而不是以政治家的想法希望人民要怎样来对待他们，这才能够成功。现在，如果你把这条非常简单非常保守的思想，顺应人类的天性和所有行为经济学的成果其中的一些我们才刚刚听到的成果结合起来，再一次地，我认为我们能够真正地提升社会福利大众幸福，提升快乐，创建一个更强大的社会，而不需花费一大堆的钱。
en:The second thing we believe is we believe in going with the grain of human nature.Politics and politicians will only succeedif they actually try and treat with people as they are,rather than as they would like them to be.Now, if you combine this very simple, very conservative thought —go with the grain of human nature —with all the advances in behavioral economics,some of which we were just hearing about,again, I think we can achieve a real increase in well-being,in happiness, in a stronger societywithout necessarily having to spend a whole lot more money.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:为什么我现在提出这种观点呢？嗯，恐怕你们要忍受一小段、浓缩的历史课。我将要说的是历史上的三个时代，前官僚时代，官僚时代，以及我们正生活的时代——我称其为“后官僚时代”。一个简单的方式来思考这段历史：我们经历了地方掌控的世界，然后我们进入到中央掌控的世界，现在我们正处于在人民掌控的世界。地方掌权，中央掌权，现在，人民掌权。
en:Now, why do I think now is the moment to make this argument?Well, I&#39;m afraid you&#39;re going to suffer a short, condensed history lessonabout what I would say are the three passages of history:the pre-bureaucratic age, the bureaucratic ageand what we now live in, which I think is a post-bureaucratic age.A simpler way of thinking of itis that we have gone from a world of local control,then we went to a world of central control,and now we&#39;re in a world of people control.Local power, central power, now, people power.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:现在看到的是克努特王，1000年前的国王。他以为他能让海浪调头，其实做不到，好吧，即使他真的做到过，也不是很明显……因为如果你是一千年前的国王，那个时候要花上数周的时间才能横越你的国家，你能掌控的东西很少。你不能掌控治安、司法、教育、卫生、福利。你可以发动战争，基本上那是你能做的。这就是前官僚时代一个所有事情都只能是地方性的时代。你只能拥有地方性掌控，因为没有全国性的便利信息，因为交通是如此的受限。这就是前官僚时代。
en:Now, here is King Cnut, king a thousand years ago.Thought he could turn back the waves; couldn&#39;t turn back the waves.Couldn&#39;t actually turn back very much,because if you were king a thousand years ago,while it still took hours and hours and weeks and weeks to traverse your own country,there wasn&#39;t much you were in charge of.You weren&#39;t in charge of policing, justice, education, health, welfare.You could just about go to war and that was about it.This was the pre-bureaucratic age,an age in which everything had to be local.You had to have local control because there was no nationally-available informationbecause travel was so restricted.So this was the pre-bureaucratic age.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:现说历史课的下一部分，英国工业革命的可爱图片。突然间，所有形式的交通、旅行、信息传递都成为了可能，这就催生了我所说的“官僚时代”。让这张幻灯片变化一下。如图所示，突然间，我们有了大而强的中央政权。它能够但是仅仅能组织起医疗保健，教育，治安和司法。正如我所说，它不再是地方控权，而是一个中央控权的世界。它剥夺了当地地区所有的权利。它自身能够做到这一点。
en:Next part of the cold history lesson,the lovely picture of the British Industrial Revolution.Suddenly, all sorts of transport, travel information were possible,and this gave birth to, what I like to call, the bureaucratic age.And hopefully this slide is going to morph beautifully. There we are.Suddenly, you have the big, strong, central state.It was able — but only it was able — to organizehealth care, education, policing, justice.And it was a world of, as I say, not local power, but now central power.It had sucked all that power up from the localities.It was able to do that itself.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:下一个伟大时代，大家都非常熟悉：规模庞大的信息革命。就考虑这一个事实：100年前，发送这10个单词需要花费50美元。就在现在，仅用此费用的一小部分，我们这里就和美国长滩以及其他任何地方，甚至所有那些秘密的地方都在线联结起来了，我们可以发送和接收大量的信息而没有任何花费。现在我们生活在一个后官僚时代，人民可以真正行使权力，这是可能的。
en:The next great stage, which all of you are so familiar with:the massive information revolution.Just consider this one fact:One hundred years ago, sending these 10 words cost 50 dollars.Right now, here we are linked up to Long Beach and everywhere else,and all these secret locations for a fraction of that cost,and we can send and receive huge quantities of informationwithout it costing anything.So we&#39;re now living in a post-bureaucratic age,where genuine people power is possible.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:现在，这一切对我们的政治，对我们的公共服务，对我们的政府意味着什么？嗯，就我所知的，我不能给出大量的例子，但让我指出一些生活可以改变的方面。这在某种程度上是显而易见的，因为你想一想我们购物，旅行，经商的方式已经发生了怎样的改变。这些已经发生了；信息和互联网革命已经通过如此与众不同的方式贯穿了我们的社会，但它还没有贯穿所有的方面，尚未触及我们的政府。
en:Now, what does this mean for our politics,for our public services, for our government?Well I can&#39;t, in the time I&#39;ve got, give huge numbers of examples,but let me just give a few of the ways that life can change.And this is so obvious, in a way, becauseyou think about how all of you have changedthe way we shop, the way we travel, the way that business is done.That is already happened; the information and Internet revolutionhas actually gone all the way through our societies in so many different ways,but it hasn&#39;t, in every way, yet touched our government.
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:那么，这触及我们的政府将如何发生？嗯，我认为它应该通过三个主要方面——透明度，更多的选择，以及问责制，这会带来巨大的不同，给人民真正的权力。如果我们说起透明度，这是我最喜欢的网站之一：萨里问责制门户。在过去时代，只有政府能持有这些信息，也仅有少数被当选的人才能得到这些信息，并且质疑和怀疑这些信息。现在这里，在一个网站上，美国的一个州，政府所花的每一分钱都是可以搜索，可以分析，可以对账的。
en:So, how could this happen?Well, I think there are three chief ways that it should make an enormous difference:in transparency, in greater choice and in accountability,in giving us that genuine people power.If we take transparency, here is one of my favorite websites,the Missouri Accountability Portal.In the old days, only the government could hold the information,and only a few elected people could try and grab that informationand question it and challenge it.Now here, on one website, one state in America,every single dollar spent by that governmentis searchable, is analyzable, is checkable.
时间： 7:38
zh-cn:想想这意味着的巨大变化。任何想要竞投政府合约的企业可以看到目前花费的钱用在哪里。任何人如果想“也许我可以提供更好的服务，我可以价格更低地履行”，数据全都在那儿摆着。与人们借助信息革命在商业世界里所做的相比起来，在政府和政治层面上我们仅仅才开始触及到其表面而已。因此，完全的透明度将带来巨大的变化。在英国这个国家，如果我们保守党能赢得大选，我们将让所有超过25，000英镑的政府开支透明并且可供任何人通过上网搜索而看到。我们今天在这里宣布，我们将让每一个合同在网上可查，让任何人都能看到条约是什么样的，条件是些什么，从而不仅获得大量的经济收益，我相信更会得到社会福利的大幅提升。
en:Think of the huge change that means:Any business that wants to bid for a government contractcan see what currently is being spent.Anyone thinking, &quot;I could do that service better, I could deliver it cheaper,&quot;it&#39;s all available there.We have only, in government and in politics,started to scratch the surface of what people are doing in the commercial worldwith the information revolution.So, complete transparency will make a huge difference.In this country, if we win the election,we are going to make all government spending over 25,000 poundstransparent and available online, searchable for anyone to see.We&#39;re going to make every contract — we&#39;re announcing this today —available on the Internet so anyone can seewhat the terms are, what the conditions are,driving huge value for money,but also huge increases, I believe, in well-being as well.
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:说到选择。如今你们都上网购物，在网上比较，通过网络做各种事，虽然这种革命还几乎没有触及到公共服务方面，比如教育，或卫生保健，或治安，但你们将会看到这些方面的大规模改变。我们应该促成这样的改变。随着我们国家的信息革命，通过可搜索的医疗网站，你们可以看到何种手术进展顺利，医生们的纪录，医院的卫生程度，谁在感染控制方面做得最好，所有这些曾经被锁在卫生署内部的信息现在可供我们所有人查看。
en:Choice. Now you all shop online, compare online, do everything online,and yet this revolution has hardly touched the surfaceof public services like education, or health care or policing,and you&#39;re going to see this change massively.We should be making this changewith the information revolution in our country,with searchable health sites, so you can see what operations work out properly,what records doctors have, the cleanliness of hospitals,who does best at infection control —all of the information that would once be locked in the Department of Healthis now available for all of us to see.
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:第三个巨大的变化，问责制。我认为，这个是一个巨大的改变。这是一张犯罪地图。只是一张芝加哥的犯罪地图。因此，不再单单由警察掌握这些何类犯罪在何处发生的信息，不再需要我们政府雇佣人员去监管警察的责任；突然间，我们有了巨大的机会去赋予人们权力：作为公民，我们要是看到有现场犯罪何时何地以及罪犯是谁，我们就可以监管警察的职责。大家能看到这个图标，看上去像一个厨师的帽子，但实际上这个蓝色的图标表示一个人身侵犯案件。你们可以看到何类犯罪在何处发生，你们就有机会去监管你们的警察所应尽的职责。因此，这三个方面：透明度，问责制以及选择权将会带来巨大的不同。
en:And the third of these big changes: accountability.This, I think, is a huge change.It is a crime map. This is a crime map from Chicago.So, instead of having a situation where only the police have the informationabout which crimes are committed where,and we have to employ people in governmentto try and hold the police to account,suddenly, we&#39;ve got this vast opportunity for people power,where we, as citizens, can see what crimes are being committed —where, when and by whom —and we can hold the police to account.And you can see this looks a bit like a chef&#39;s hat,but actually that&#39;s an assault, the one in blue.You can see what crime is committed where,and you have the opportunity to hold your police force to account.So those three ways — transparency, accountability and choice —will make a huge difference.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:今天我还谈到其他的原则：我认为我们应该致力做到的事，理解人民，认识到顺应人类的天性，人民可以做到很多事情。如今，关于理解人们为什么按他们的方式行为，我们有了一个巨大的革命，也有了很好的机会把这些知识和信息加以更好的利用。我们正在与他们中的一些人合作。我们正采用他们中的一些人的建议，正如已经说过的，来尝试把所有这些经验正规化。
en:Now I also said the other principlethat I think we should work on is understanding of people,is recognizing that going with the grain of human natureyou can achieve so much more.Now, we&#39;re got a huge revolution in understandingof why people behave in the way that they do,and a great opportunity to put that knowledge and information to greater use.We&#39;re working with some of these people.We&#39;re being advised by some of these people, as was said,to try and bring all the experience to book.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:让我给你们一个我喜爱的例子，我认为它难以置信的简单。我们希望人们更加节约能源。为什么？因为这缓解燃油贫乏，这也减少他们的账单，同时这还能减少碳排放量。怎么实现呢？嗯，我们过去多年来都有政府的宣传运动，告诉你离开家的时候关掉电灯。我们甚至有过一位政府部长劝告我们在黑暗中刷牙。我认为这些都没有维持很长时间。再来看这个行为方法的例子。这是行为经济学的一个简单方法。让人们削减电费的最好办法是向他们展示他们自己的开支，他们邻居的开支，和有节能意识的邻居的开支。这种行为经济学能够改变人们的行为方式，通过一种所有威逼、所有宣传信息以及所有来自政府的诱使都不能实现的方式。另一个例子，回收利用。我们都知道我们需要更多的回收利用。我们如何做到这一点？美国的所有证据表明，事实上，如果你付钱让人民回收利用就可以做到。如果你给他们的是胡萝卜而不是大棒，你就能够改变他们的行为方式。
en:Let me just give you one example that I think is incredibly simple, and I love.We want to get people to be more energy efficient.Why? It cuts fuel poverty, it cuts their bills,and it cuts carbon emissions at the same time.How do you do it?Well, we&#39;ve had government information campaigns over the yearswhen they tell you to switch off the lights when you leave the home.We even had — one government minister once told us tobrush our teeth in the dark.I don&#39;t think they lasted very long.Look at what this does. This is a simple piece of behavioral economics.The best way to get someone to cut their electricity billis to show them their own spending,to show them what their neighbors are spending,and then show what an energy conscious neighbor is spending.That sort of behavioral economicscan transform people&#39;s behaviorin a way that all the bullying and all the informationand all the badgering from a government cannot possibly achieve.Other examples are recycling.We all know we need to recycle more.How do we make it happen?All the proof from America is that actually, if you pay people to recycle,if you give them a carrot rather than a stick,you can transform their behavior.
时间：11:30
zh-cn:那么，所有这些都意味着什么？过去50年里，这是我最喜欢的两个美国演讲。显而易见地，这有约翰肯尼迪极其简单但有力的构想：“不要问国家能为你们做些什么，而要问你们能为国家做些什么”一个令人难以置信的高尚情操。当他做出这个演讲的时候，你能为创建更强更好的社会做些什么呢？你可以为你的国家战斗，你可以为你的国家牺牲，你可以投身祖国的公共服务，但是你不像现今人们那样，他们因获得信息，知识以及能力从而帮助建设更强大社会。
en:So what does all this add up to?Here are my two favorite U.S. speeches of the last 50 years.Obviously, here we have JFK with that incredibly simpleand powerful formulation,&quot;Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country,&quot;an incredibly noble sentiment.But when he made that speech, what could you doto build the stronger, better society?You could fight for your country, you could die for your country,you could serve in your country&#39;s civil service,but you didn&#39;t really have the information and the knowledgeand the ability to help build the stronger society in the way that you do now.
时间：12:12
zh-cn:我在想，一个更加精彩的演讲，我将诵读它的一长段，它总结了我在开始时说过的，要相信，生活中有比金钱更重要的东西，比金钱更应该备加珍惜和衡量的东西。这是罗伯特肯尼迪就为什么国民生产总值汇编的涵义如此之少，所做的美妙的形容。它“没有考虑到我们孩子的健康、没有考虑到他们受教育的质量或者他们游戏的乐趣。它没有包含我们诗歌的美妙、我们婚姻的力量之美，也没有包含我们公开辩论的智慧。它没有衡量我们的才智和我们的勇气，也没有衡量我们的智慧和学识，更没有衡量我们对祖国的赤子之心和奉献。简单地说，除了那些真正赋予生命意义的东西，它才意味着一切。”
en:And I think an even more wonderful speech,which I&#39;m going to read a big chunk of,which sums up what I said at the beginningabout believing there is more to life than money,and more that we should try and measure than money.And it is Robert Kennedy&#39;s beautiful descriptionof why gross national product captures so little:It &quot;does not allow for the health of our children,the quality of their education, or the joy of their play.It does not include the beauty of our poetry or the strength of our marriages,the intelligence of our public debate.It measures neither our wit nor our courage,neither our wisdom nor our learning,neither our compassion nor our devotion to our country.It measures everything, in short,except that which makes life worthwhile.&quot;
时间：12:57
zh-cn:同样，这个40年前如此高尚和美丽的观点，在40年前是个美好的梦想，然而现在，随着信息技术的巨大进步，随着行为经济学的大力发展，配合着我们所知的让大众提升幸福的所有方法，如果我们把这些都联系起来，把权利赋予人民，使人民可以得到便利信息，再顺应人类本性的洞察力，与此同时，理解人们行为方式的原因，那么40年前那个美丽演说中的梦想在今天将是一个更容易实现的理想！
en:Again, a sentiment that was so noble and beautifully put 40 years ago,and a beautiful dream 40 years ago,but now with the huge advances in information technology,with the massive changes in behavioral economics,with all that we know about how you advance well-being,that if we combine those insightsof giving power to people, and using information to make that possible,and using the insight of going with the grain of human nature,while at the same time, understanding why people behave in the way they do,it is a dream more easy to realize todaythan it was when it was made in that beautiful speech 40 years ago.
时间：13:38
zh-cn:谢谢。（掌声）
en:Thank you.(Applause)
