时间： 0:11
zh-cn:如果你知道你的亲人或者朋友中有人正遭受某种精神疾病折磨的请举手。和我想的一样，没什么好惊讶的。
en:So raise your hand if you know someonein your immediate family or circle of friendswho suffers from some form of mental illness.Yeah. I thought so. Not surprised.
时间： 0:23
zh-cn:如果你觉得对果蝇的基础研究对人类精神疾病的了解有任何作用的话，请举手。和我想的一样，这也没什么好惊讶的。看来我的任务艰巨了。
en:And raise your hand if you think thatbasic research on fruit flies has anything to dowith understanding mental illness in humans.Yeah. I thought so. I&#39;m also not surprised.I can see I&#39;ve got my work cut out for me here.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:像我们今早从Insel博士那里听到的那样，像自闭症、 抑郁症、 精神分裂症等精神障碍让人类遭受着可怕的痛苦。我们对（精神疾病）的治疗和它们基本机理的了解比我们对身体上疾病的了解少的多。想想看： 在 2013 年，千禧年的第二个十年，如果你对罹患癌症感到担心你可以去看医生， 你可以进行骨扫描，切片检查以及血液测试。在 2013 年，如果你担心得了抑郁症，你去看医生，你能得到些什么呢？一份调查问卷。现在，这种情况发生的部分原因是对于精神障碍的生物学基础我们有一个过分简化和过时的观点，我们倾向于认为他们 －－同时大众媒体也教唆给大家同样的观点 －－（精神疾病）即是大脑中化学物质的失衡，好像大脑就是某种袋子，里面装满了由多巴胺，5 - 羟色胺和去甲肾上腺素混合的化学物质。以下例子可以印证上述观点即很多被开出来治疗这些疾病的处方药，如百忧解，都是通过全局性的改变大脑化学构成来起效果的，好像大脑真是一袋子化学物质。但那肯定不是正确的解释，实际上这些药并不都会带来显著疗效。因为这些药有不好的副作用，很多人不会吃这些药，或者干脆停药。这些药有很多副作用因为用他们去治疗一例复杂的精神障碍就好像你为了去换一下发动机的机油却打开了机油罐然后倒的引擎上到处都是。有些药效会直接作用于正确的病处，但大多数对人体造成的伤害多于好处。
en:As we heard from Dr. Insel this morning,psychiatric disorders like autism, depression and schizophreniatake a terrible toll on human suffering.We know much less about their treatmentand the understanding of their basic mechanismsthan we do about diseases of the body.Think about it: In 2013,the second decade of the millennium,if you&#39;re concerned about a cancer diagnosisand you go to your doctor, you get bone scans,biopsies and blood tests.In 2013, if you&#39;re concerned about a depression diagnosis,you go to your doctor, and what do you get?A questionnaire.Now, part of the reason for this is that we havean oversimplified and increasingly outmoded viewof the biological basis of psychiatric disorders.We tend to view them —and the popular press aids and abets this view —as chemical imbalances in the brain,as if the brain were some kind of bag of chemical soupfull of dopamine, serotonin and norepinephrine.This view is conditioned by the factthat many of the drugs that are prescribed to treat these disorders,like Prozac, act by globally changing brain chemistry,as if the brain were indeed a bag of chemical soup.But that can&#39;t be the answer,because these drugs actually don&#39;t work all that well.A lot of people won&#39;t take them, or stop taking them,because of their unpleasant side effects.These drugs have so many side effectsbecause using them to treat a complex psychiatric disorderis a bit like trying to change your engine oilby opening a can and pouring it all over the engine block.Some of it will dribble into the right place,but a lot of it will do more harm than good.
时间： 2:26
zh-cn:现在，一个今天早上你也从Insel博士那里听说的全新的观点即精神障碍实际上就是一种对那些谐调表情、情绪以及情感的神经回路的干扰。当我们想着去认知它的时候，我们把大脑比作电脑是没问题的。那么结果显示把大脑比作电脑的比喻对处理情感也是有效的。只是我们通常不倾向于用这种方式去思考。但是因为这种化学不平衡假说具有压倒性的优势所以我们对精神障碍回路的基础知识知之甚少。
en:Now, an emerging viewthat you also heard about from Dr. Insel this morning,is that psychiatric disorders are actuallydisturbances of neural circuits that mediateemotion, mood and affect.When we think about cognition,we analogize the brain to a computer. That&#39;s no problem.Well it turns out that the computer analogyis just as valid for emotion.It&#39;s just that we don&#39;t tend to think about it that way.But we know much less about the circuit basisof psychiatric disordersbecause of the overwhelming dominanceof this chemical imbalance hypothesis.
时间： 3:04
zh-cn:现在，我们不是说化学物质在精神障碍中不重要。只是大脑不是简单混沌的(由化学物质组成的)混合液体，而是，他们(化学物质)被释放在非常精确的位置并作用于某个确定的神经突触来改变大脑中的信息流。因此如果我们真正想懂得精神障碍相关的生物基础知识，我们得搞清楚这些化学物质具体起作用于大脑中的哪些位置。否则，我们将要继续把油弄的满是我们的精神引擎并且承受各种痛苦。
en:Now, it&#39;s not that chemicals are not importantin psychiatric disorders.It&#39;s just that they don&#39;t bathe the brain like soup.Rather, they&#39;re released in very specific locationsand they act on specific synapsesto change the flow of information in the brain.So if we ever really want to understandthe biological basis of psychiatric disorders,we need to pinpoint these locations in the brainwhere these chemicals act.Otherwise, we&#39;re going to keep pouring oil all over our mental enginesand suffering the consequences.
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:现在为了克服我们对大脑化学物质在大脑回路中的作用的无知，在我们生物学家称作的“模式生物”，比如果蝇和试验鼠等动物身上做试验是有帮助的。这样我们可以应用强大的基因技术来分子识别以及确定具体的神经元的种类，就如大家今天早上听到 Allan Jones的讲话内容一样。而且，一旦我们可以那么做了，实际上我们就可以激活特定的神经元或者可以毁坏或者抑制那些神经元的活性。因此一旦我们抑制了某种特定的神经元，并且发现某种行为被阻止了的时候，我们就可以得出那些神经元是负责相应的行为的结论。从另一方面来讲，如果我们激活了一组神经元并且发现他们激发了某种行为，我们就可以得到这组神经元是对特定行为负责的结论。因此，通过做这种试验，我们可以理清楚特定神经元在某种回路上的活动与相应行为的因果关系，而在人类身上做这些实验是极其困难的。
en:Now to begin to overcome our ignoranceof the role of brain chemistry in brain circuitry,it&#39;s helpful to work on what we biologists call&quot;model organisms,&quot;animals like fruit flies and laboratory mice,in which we can apply powerful genetic techniquesto molecularly identify and pinpointspecific classes of neurons,as you heard about in Allan Jones&#39;s talk this morning.Moreover, once we can do that,we can actually activate specific neuronsor we can destroy or inhibit the activity of those neurons.So if we inhibit a particular type of neuron,and we find that a behavior is blocked,we can conclude that those neuronsare necessary for that behavior.On the other hand, if we activate a group of neuronsand we find that that produces the behavior,we can conclude that those neurons are sufficient for the behavior.So in this way, by doing this kind of test,we can draw cause and effect relationshipsbetween the activity of specific neuronsin particular circuits and particular behaviors,something that is extremely difficult, if not impossible,to do right now in humans.
时间： 4:54
zh-cn:但是有机体如果蝇—就是很好的试验对象因为它有一个小的大脑，一个能完成复杂的行为的脑袋，而且它培育起来很快，费用也不高。但像果蝇这样的有机体是否可以给我们展示任何情感状态呢？这些有机体是否拥有情感状态，或者他们只是像小型数字机器人(无情感状态)？
en:But can an organism like a fruit fly, which is —it&#39;s a great model organismbecause it&#39;s got a small brain,it&#39;s capable of complex and sophisticated behaviors,it breeds quickly, and it&#39;s cheap.But can an organism like thisteach us anything about emotion-like states?Do these organisms even have emotion-like states,or are they just little digital robots?
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:查尔斯·达尔文认为昆虫是有情感的并且有它们的情感表现方式就像他在1872年出版的著作中关于人类与动物情感的表达方式的描写。与我齐名的同事，Seymour Benzer，同样认为昆虫是有情感的。在60年代的加州理工学院，Seymour引进了用果蝇作为有机体来研究基因与行为之间的关系。Seymour在80年代末聘请我到加州理工学院。当他在那儿的时候，他是我的启发者与导师，Seymour也教会了我们俩爱上果蝇用果蝇去试验科学原理。
en:Charles Darwin believed that insects have emotionand express them in their behaviors, as he wrotein his 1872 monograph on the expression of the emotions in man and animals.And my eponymous colleague, Seymour Benzer, believed it as well.Seymour is the man that introduced the use of drosophilahere at CalTech in the &#39;60s as a model organismto study the connection between genes and behavior.Seymour recruited me to CalTech in the late 1980s.He was my Jedi and my rabbi while he was here,and Seymour taught me both to love fliesand also to play with science.
时间： 5:59
zh-cn:我们怎么提这个问题呢？一方面我们相信果蝇有情感状态，但又如何求证这个假设是真是假？现在，在人类中我们经常通过面部表情推断情感状态，这个大家稍后会了解更多。然而，在果蝇身上，这个可有点困难。（笑声）这有点像你降落在火星上然后从飞船往窗外看外面的小绿人并且试着找出“我如何知道他们是否有情感”这个问题的答案。我们能做什么？显然不容易。
en:So how do we ask this question?It&#39;s one thing to believe that flies have emotion-like states,but how do we actually find out whether that&#39;s true or not?Now, in humans we often infer emotional states,as you&#39;ll hear later today, from facial expressions.However, it&#39;s a little difficult to do that in fruit flies.(Laughter)It&#39;s kind of like landing on Marsand looking out the window of your spaceshipat all the little green men who are surrounding itand trying to figure out, &quot;How do I find outif they have emotions or not?&quot;What can we do? It&#39;s not so easy.
时间： 6:41
zh-cn:好了，其中一个方法是我们可以从试着提炼出一些情感状态的一般特性或属性比如刺激，然后看看我们是否可以分别出任何可能展现果蝇的那些（情感）属性的行为。因此我能想到的三个要点就是持久性，渐层的强度以及效价。持久性意味着(情感的)长效持久。我们都知道当刺激触发了某一种情感，这种情感会在这种刺激消失后继续持续。渐层的强度（情感表现强度）就是其字面意思。你可以调高或者调低情感的强烈程度。如果你有点不开心，那么你的嘴角会向下并且会抽泣，如果你很不开心，泪水就会流出来并且会呜咽。效价表示(情绪中)好的或者坏的，积极的或者消极的。
en:Well, one of the ways that we can startis to try to come up with some general characteristicsor properties of emotion-like statessuch as arousal, and see if we can identifyany fly behaviors that might exhibit some of those properties.So three important ones that I can think ofare persistence, gradations in intensity, and valence.Persistence means long-lasting.We all know that the stimulus that triggers an emotioncauses that emotion to last long after the stimulus is gone.Gradations of intensity means what it sounds like.You can dial up the intensity or dial down the intensity of an emotion.If you&#39;re a little bit unhappy, the corners of your mouthturn down and you sniffle,and if you&#39;re very unhappy, tears pour down your faceand you might sob.Valence means good or bad, positive or negative.
时间： 7:40
zh-cn:所以我们决定看看果蝇会不会做出跟人在野餐桌上被那只黄蜂骚扰后相似的行为。众所周知，它越是一直试图接近你的汉堡，你就越想猛的把它赶走，而且这种情况会让人很恼火。因此，我们制作了一种装置，叫做 puff-o-mat，在我们的实验室工作台上这种装置可通过塑料管向果蝇喷出极少的空气并把它们吹走。我们发现如果给这些在装置里的果蝇不断的喷一阵子空气，他们会变的有点亢奋并且直到空气供给停止后都会保持到处乱跑的状态而且需要一小会儿才会冷静下来。为了量化这个行为我们用我跟一个在加州理工学院电气工程部门的合作者Pietro Perona一起开发的自主跟踪软件来实现(这个目的)。这个量化数据给我们展示的是，在被这些空气流喷了一段时间之后，这些果蝇好像进入了一种亢奋的状态而这种状态是持久有效的，并且可以(按持久性)被分级。更多的空气供给，或者更激烈的空气喷射量会让这种状态持续更长的一段时间。
en:So we decided to see if flies could be provoked into showingthe kind of behavior that you seeby the proverbial wasp at the picnic table,you know, the one that keeps coming back to your hamburgerthe more vigorously you try to swat it away,and it seems to keep getting irritated.So we built a device, which we call a puff-o-mat,in which we could deliver little brief air puffs to fruit fliesin these plastic tubes in our laboratory benchand blow them away.And what we found is that if we gave these fliesin the puff-o-mat several puffs in a row,they became somewhat hyperactiveand continued to run around for some time after the air puffs actually stoppedand took a while to calm down.So we quantified this behaviorusing custom locomotor tracking softwaredeveloped with my collaborator Pietro Perona,who&#39;s in the electrical engineering division here at CalTech.And what this quantification showed us is that,upon experiencing a train of these air puffs,the flies appear to enter a kind of state of hyperactivitywhich is persistent, long-lasting,and also appears to be graded.More puffs, or more intense puffs,make the state last for a longer period of time.
时间： 9:00
zh-cn:现在我们想了解一下是什么因素控制这种状态持续的时间长短。我们决定通过我们的装置以及自动跟踪软件去监测数百批突变的果蝇来看看能否发现它们对空气供给会否有任何不正常的反应。这就是果蝇的一个非常大的好处。你可以拿起电话跟仓库预定数百瓶的不同类型的变异的果蝇并且在试验中监测它们来找出什么基因在突变中起了变化。通过监测，我们发现了一种突变的果蝇在空气供给之后，比在正常情况下要花更长的时间去冷静下来，当我们检查了这种在突变中受到影响的基因之后，发现它是用来编译一种多巴胺受体的。对—果蝇，就像人一样，有多巴胺，而且它通过跟你我一样都有的多巴胺受体分子直接作用到它们的脑部和神经突触。多巴胺负责大脑里一些重要的功能，包括注意力，觉醒，激励，并且多巴胺系统的紊乱已经被联系到一些精神方面的紊乱，包括药物滥用，帕金森氏症和多动症。
en:So now we wanted to try to understand somethingabout what controls the duration of this state.So we decided to use our puff-o-matand our automated tracking softwareto screen through hundreds of lines of mutant fruit fliesto see if we could find any that showed abnormal responses to the air puffs.And this is one of the great things about fruit flies.There are repositories where you can just pick up the phoneand order hundreds of vials of flies of different mutantsand screen them in your assay and then find outwhat gene is affected in the mutation.So doing the screen, we discovered one mutantthat took much longer than normal to calm downafter the air puffs,and when we examined the gene that was affected in this mutation,it turned out to encode a dopamine receptor.That&#39;s right — flies, like people, have dopamine,and it acts on their brains and on their synapsesthrough the same dopamine receptor moleculesthat you and I have.Dopamine plays a number of important functions in the brain,including in attention, arousal, reward,and disorders of the dopamine system have been linkedto a number of mental disorders including drug abuse,Parkinson&#39;s disease, and ADHD.
时间：10:19
zh-cn:现在从遗传学上来说，这有点有悖常理。通过把某种因素剔除然后观察什么没有发生，我们推断出这个被移除的因素的正常功能是什么。也就是与我们看到正在发生的截然相反。因此当我们移除多巴胺受体后果蝇需要更长的时间冷静下来，因此我们推测受体和多巴胺的正常功能是保证果蝇在接触更多空气后更快冷静下来的原因。这有点让人想起了多动症，人们把它和人体中的多巴胺系统紊乱联系起来。确实，在获得DEA的许可证之后， 如果我们通过给正常的果蝇喂食可卡因来增加其体内的多巴胺的水平哦，天哪(大笑)我们会发现这些喂食了可卡因的果蝇会比正常的果蝇更快的冷静下来，这也让我们想起了多动症，它通常都是用利他林来治疗的这种药物的作用类似于可卡因(所起的作用)。因此慢慢的我开始意识到一个开始只是试图激怒果蝇的有趣尝试也许跟人类精神障碍有一定的相关性。
en:Now, in genetics, it&#39;s a little counterintuitive.We tend to infer the normal function of somethingby what doesn&#39;t happen when we take it away,by the opposite of what we see when we take it away.So when we take away the dopamine receptorand the flies take longer to calm down,from that we infer that the normal function of this receptor and dopamineis to cause the flies to calm down faster after the puff.And that&#39;s a bit reminiscent of ADHD,which has been linked to disorders of the dopamine system in humans.Indeed, if we increase the levels of dopamine in normal fliesby feeding them cocaineafter getting the appropriate DEA license— oh my God — (Laughter) —we find indeed that these cocaine-fed fliescalm down faster than normal flies do,and that&#39;s also reminiscent of ADHD,which is often treated with drugs like Ritalinthat act similarly to cocaine.So slowly I began to realize that what started outas a rather playful attempt to try to annoy fruit fliesmight actually have some relevance to a human psychiatric disorder.
时间：11:31
zh-cn:现在，这个类比能站住脚吗？像你们大多数人都知道的一样，患有多动症的人同时也患有学习障碍。多巴胺受体突变的果蝇也可以印证上述观点吗？可喜的是，答案是肯定的。就像Seymour在70年代展示的那样，果蝇，像鸣鸟一样，正如刚才你们都听过的，它们是有学习能力的。如果你把一种气味和一次空气冲击结合起来，你就可以训练果蝇去回避这种气味（如这里蓝色部分展示的一样）然后当你给这些已经完成训练的果蝇在充有这种气味的管子与另外一种气味中选择它会回避这种充有（曾跟冲击气流同时释放的）蓝色气体的管子。如果你在多巴胺受体变异的果蝇身上做这个试验，它们是不会学习的。他们的学习能力为零。它们可考不上加州理工学院。
en:Now, how far does this analogy go?As many of you know, individuals afflicted with ADHDalso have learning disabilities.Is that true of our dopamine receptor mutant flies?Remarkably, the answer is yes.As Seymour showed back in the 1970s,flies, like songbirds, as you just heard,are capable of learning.You can train a fly to avoid an odor, shown here in blue,if you pair that odor with a shock.Then when you give those trained flies the chance to choosebetween a tube with the shock-paired odor and another odor,it avoids the tube containing the blue odor that was paired with shock.Well, if you do this test on dopamine receptor mutant flies,they don&#39;t learn. Their learning score is zero.They flunk out of CalTech.
时间：12:19
zh-cn:因此那表明了这些果蝇有两种异常或者表现，就如我们遗传学家认为的多动症的表现：过度活跃以及学习障碍。现在，如果有(关系的话)，在这些表型之中到底有什么因果关系？多动症中，一般认为学习障碍是由过度活跃引起的。孩子们无法静坐足够长的时间去集中精神，所以他们学不进去。但同样的，它也可以解释为是因为有学习障碍才会引起过度活跃的。因为孩子们学不进去，他们就会寻找其他的东西去分散他们的注意力。最后一个可能就是学习障碍与过度活跃是没有任何联系的，它们是被一种在多动症中的共同的底层机制所引发的。
en:So that means that these flies have two abnormalities,or phenotypes, as we geneticists call them,that one finds in ADHD: hyperactivity and learning disability.Now what&#39;s the causal relationship, if anything, between these phenotypes?In ADHD, it&#39;s often assumed that the hyperactivitycauses the learning disability.The kids can&#39;t sit still long enough to focus, so they don&#39;t learn.But it could equally be the case that it&#39;s the learning disabilitiesthat cause the hyperactivity.Because the kids can&#39;t learn, they look for other things to distract their attention.And a final possibility is that there&#39;s no relationship at allbetween learning disabilities and hyperactivity,but that they are caused by a common underlying mechanism in ADHD.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:现在人们对这个问题已经困惑很久了，但我们可以在果蝇身上做这个试验。我们试验的方式是利用遗传学深入挖掘果蝇的意识并且利用遗传学来理清楚它的(神经)回路。我们先选出多巴胺受体变异的果蝇们然后通过在它们的大脑中放置一份正常的多巴胺受体基因来进行基因还原或者治愈。但在每只果蝇身上，我们仅仅(把正常的多巴胺受体基因)放回到固定的神经元(并非所有神经元都放置)，然后我们测试每一只果蝇的学习能力以及过度活跃现象。
en:Now people have been wondering about this for a long timein humans, but in flies we can actually test this.And the way that we do this is to delve deeply into the mindof the fly and begin to untangle its circuitry using genetics.We take our dopamine receptor mutant fliesand we genetically restore, or cure, the dopamine receptorby putting a good copy of the dopamine receptor geneback into the fly brain.But in each fly, we put it back only into certain neuronsand not in others, and then we test each of these fliesfor their ability to learn and for hyperactivity.
时间：13:43
zh-cn:可喜的是，我们发现可以完全分离出这两种异常现象。假如我们在果蝇的椭圆形结构(中央处理器集群)放置一份正常的多巴胺受体，果蝇就不会再过度活跃，但依旧没有学习能力。另一方面，如果我们在果蝇大脑别的结构，称作磨菇体的地方放置正常的多巴胺受体，学习能力就得到修复，果蝇就有很好的学习能力，但它们依旧过度活跃。这些事实告诉我们，多巴胺并不会让大脑乱成一锅粥。相反，它是在两个不同的神经回路中控制两种不同的功能的。因此，多巴胺受体(变异)的果蝇有两种功能不正常的原因是同样一份受体控制了大脑两个的不同区域上的两种不同的功能。是否这个结论也在人类的多动症中适用，我们还不知道，但这些结论至少给了我们去考虑这种可能性的启发。
en:Remarkably, we find we can completely dissociate these two abnormalities.If we put a good copy of the dopamine receptor backin this elliptical structure called the central complex,the flies are no longer hyperactive, but they still can&#39;t learn.On the other hand, if we put the receptor back in a different structurecalled the mushroom body,the learning deficit is rescued, the flies learn well,but they&#39;re still hyperactive.What that tells us is that dopamineis not bathing the brain of these flies like soup.Rather, it&#39;s acting to control two different functionson two different circuits,so the reason there are two things wrong with our dopamine receptor fliesis that the same receptor is controlling two different functionsin two different regions of the brain.Whether the same thing is true in ADHD in humanswe don&#39;t know, but these kinds of resultsshould at least cause us to consider that possibility.
时间：14:37
zh-cn:因此这些结论让我跟我同事比以往都更加确信一点，就是大脑它不是一袋子化学物质，并且想通过仅仅改变化学物质的“味道”去治愈复杂的精神障碍是错误的。我们需要做的是运用我们的创造力以及科学知识去开发一系列新的治疗方式一种可以在特定的精神障碍疾病中作用于精确的神经元以及大脑特定区域的方法。如果可以做到的话，我们就可以在没有不好的副作用的情况下治愈这些疾病了，就如只把&quot;机油“倒在我们精神引擎上真正需要的地方。非常感谢。
en:So these results make me and my colleagues more convinced than everthat the brain is not a bag of chemical soup,and it&#39;s a mistake to try to treat complex psychiatric disordersjust by changing the flavor of the soup.What we need to do is to use our ingenuity and our scientific knowledgeto try to design a new generation of treatmentsthat are targeted to specific neurons and specific regions of the brainthat are affected in particular psychiatric disorders.If we can do that, we may be able to cure these disorderswithout the unpleasant side effects,putting the oil back in our mental engines,just where it&#39;s needed. Thank you very much.
