时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是一个医学画家，我从一个略微不同的视角看待问题。我长大后就一直在观察，在艺术里真和美的表现形式以及科学中真和美的表现形式。因为艺术和科学两者本身就是极美妙的事物—它们都有许多美妙的东西—真和美，作为可以被科学及数学研究的思想，就好象是完美的连体双胞胎使每个科学家都想与之约会。（笑声）以下是值得敬畏的事情中“真”的一些表现形式，也就是说，这些事情是值得你仰慕的。它们是强有力的理想，它们是不能简化的，它们是独一无二的，它们是有用的 —-有些时候，要事后很久才能体现出来。事实上，现在您可以开始播放一些图片了，因为我不想在屏幕上看到自己。
en:I&#39;m a medical illustrator,and I come from a slightly different point of view.I&#39;ve been watching, since I grew up,the expressions of truth and beauty in the artsand truth and beauty in the sciences.And while these are both wonderful things in their own right —they both have very wonderful things going for them —truth and beauty as ideals that can be looked at by the sciencesand by math are almost like the ideal conjoined twinsthat a scientist would want to date.(Laughter)These are expressions of truth as awe-full things,by meaning they are things you can worship.They are ideals that are powerful. They are irreducible.They are unique. They are useful —sometimes, often a long time after the fact.And you can actually roll some of the pictures now,because I don&#39;t want to look at me on the screen.
时间： 1:12
zh-cn:真和美的事，往往是摸不透的，对于非科学领域的人来说。它们用自己独特的方式来描述美，而只有当你懂得研究课题的人所使用的语言和语法时，你才会明白。该课题中表达着真与美。就拿数学来说，E=mc^2或是宇宙常数，隐藏着跟人类学有关的理论，从中你可以体会到生命必须从描述宇宙的数字中演化而来—这些事真得很难理解。
en:Truth and beauty are thingsthat are often opaque to people who are not in the sciences.They are things that describe beauty in a waythat is often only accessible if you understand the languageand the syntax of the personwho studies the subject in which truth and beauty is expressed.If you look at the math, E=mc squared,if you look at the cosmological constant,where there&#39;s an anthropic ideal, where you see that life had to evolvefrom the numbers that describe the universe —these are things that are really difficult to understand.
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:一直以来我想要做的是，既然我已训练成一个医学画家—因为我老爸教我动画技术，他是一位雕刻家及我的视觉导师我希望能过找到一种解决办法，能帮助人们理解生命科学中的真和美，通过使用动画，使用图片以及讲述故事等方式。使那些人们不一定很清楚的事物可以被提出，被教授，被理解
en:And what I&#39;ve tried to dosince I had my training as a medical illustrator —since I was taught animation by my father,who was a sculptor and my visual mentor —I wanted to figure out a way to help peopleunderstand truth and beauty in the biological sciencesby using animation, by using pictures, by telling storiesso that the things that are not necessarily evident to peoplecan be brought forth, and can be taught, and can be understood.
时间： 2:22
zh-cn:当今的学生常常处在一种环境中这里，他们所学的科目中包含了真与美，但是他们所被教授的方法却是被分割的这种方法使得真和美并不总是那么明显。就像是一道古老的鸡汤菜谱，烹煮鸡肉直到香味通通散去我们并不想对我们学生也这么做。所以我们有机会可以真正开启教育。
en:Students today are often immersed in an environmentwhere what they learn is subjects that have truth and beautyembedded in them, but the way they&#39;re taught is compartmentalizedand it&#39;s drawn down to the point where the truth and beautyare not always evident.It&#39;s almost like that old recipe for chicken soupwhere you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone.We don&#39;t want to do that to our students.So we have an opportunity to really open up education.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:数年前，我接到哈佛大学，分子与细胞生物学系Robert Lue 的电话。他问我，我和我的团队是否有兴趣和愿望来真正改变哈佛大学里的医学和科学教育方式。所以我们开始了进行细胞探索的一个计划，这将展示分子细胞生物学中内在的真和美由此学生会有更全面的印像能把所有事情联系在一起他们脑海中，将会形成一个生动的细胞印象细胞好像是一个庞大的、繁忙的、非常复杂的城市充满了微型机器
en:And I had a telephone call from Robert Lue at Harvard,in the Molecular and Cellular Biology Department,a couple of years ago. He asked me if my team and Iwould be interested and willing to really changehow medical and scientific education is done at Harvard.So we embarked on a project that would explore the cell —that would explore the truth and beauty inherentin molecular and cellular biologyso that students could understand a larger picturethat they could hang all of these facts on.They could have a mental image of the cellas a large, bustling, hugely complicated citythat&#39;s occupied by micro-machines.
时间： 3:43
zh-cn:而这些微型机器却是生命的中心。这些微型机器，能让当今全球纳米工程师嫉妒，它们是能自我引导、功能强大且精密严谨的设备它们是由氨基酸链所构成的。这些微型机器能让细胞移动能让细胞复制，它们也使我们心脏跳动，同时赋予我们心智。
en:And these micro-machines really are at the heart of life.These micro-machines,which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over,are self-directed, powerful, precise, accurate devicesthat are made out of strings of amino acids.And these micro-machines power how a cell moves.They power how a cell replicates. They power our hearts.They power our minds.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:我们想做的是，如何通过动画讲述这个故事这就是哈佛大学BioVisions的主轴这是哈佛大学为分子细胞生物学学生开设的网站这些动画，作为课本文本信息，和所有老师授课内容的补充将所有东西视觉化地呈现在一起，这样这些学生能够从细胞内部发现细胞的真和美并在学习过程中，能一直将此画面印在脑海中，从而他们的想象力被激发出来，学习激情也能够激发出来。然后他们可以继续前行用它们脑海中的这些画面做新的探索并最终发现生命的原理。
en:And so what we wanted to do was to figure outhow we could make this story into an animationthat would be the centerpiece of BioVisions at Harvard,which is a website that Harvard hasfor its molecular and cellular biology studentsthat will — in addition to all the textual information,in addition to all the didactic stuff —put everything together visually, so that these studentswould have an internalized view of what a cell really isin all of its truth and beauty, and be able to studywith this view in mind, so that their imaginations would be sparked,so that their passions would be sparkedand so that they would be able to go onand use these visions in their head to make new discoveriesand to be able to find out, really, how life works.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:所以我们开始研究这些分子到底是如何整合在一起的。我们想出了一个剧情大纲，那就是，巨噬细胞正在流过一个毛细血管它们不时接触着毛细血管管壁它们收集来自细胞散布在毛细血管管壁上的信号，这个信号是：在（毛细血管）外侧，有炎症发生，巨噬细胞本来是无从得知（此事的）。但是，它们得到的信息，使它们停下来使它们内化，使它们动员细胞各部分使自己改变形状，并努力穿越毛细血管搞清楚到底放生了什么
en:So we set out by looking at how these molecules are put together.We worked with a theme, which is, you&#39;ve got macrophagesthat are streaming down a capillary,and they&#39;re touching the surface of the capillary wall,and they&#39;re picking up information from cellsthat are on the capillary wall, and they are given this informationthat there&#39;s an inflammation somewhere outside,where they can&#39;t see and sense.But they get the information that causes them to stop,causes them to internalize that they need to makeall of the various parts that will cause them to change their shape,and try to get out of this capillary and find out what&#39;s going on.
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:因此这些分子的马达— 我们必须和哈佛的科学家一起研究，使用数据库中真实的由原子构成的分子结构模型并搞清楚他们是如何运动的，它们做了什么。并想出一个办法，能够真实的表现（细胞）里面正在发生的事情，但又不是那么地真实，因为实际上细胞中紧密拥挤使这种景象变得不可能。
en:So these molecular motors — we had to workwith the Harvard scientists and databank modelsof the atomically accurate moleculesand figure out how they moved, and figure out what they did.And figure out how to do this in a waythat was truthful in that it imparted what was going on,but not so truthful that the compact crowding in a cellwould prevent the vista from happening.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:我将给您展示的是一段3分钟的影片这是我们做的影片第一部分的《读者文摘》版这个计划尚未完成，还需要4，5年时间我请您看这个并看看这些细胞造的路这些小的正在走动的机器，是驱动蛋白—它们负载而行在大小比例关系上，可以和蚂蚁一决雌雄。请播放动画
en:And so what I&#39;m going to show you is a three-minuteReader&#39;s Digest version of the first aspect of this filmthat we produced. It&#39;s an ongoing projectthat&#39;s going to go another four or five years.And I want you to look at thisand see the paths that the cell manufactures —these little walking machines, they&#39;re called kinesins —that take these huge loadsthat would challenge an ant in relative size.Run the movie, please.
时间： 6:52
zh-cn:但这些赋予细胞内部生机的机器实在令人惊奇，他们真的是所有生命的基础。因为所有这些机器都在互相交流。他们互相传递信息他们决定细胞里不同的事件发生。在空间里，细胞通过利用能读懂基因的分子从细胞核中带来信息，从而正确生产出它所需要的部分。没有任何生命，从最小的生命到在坐的各位，如果没有这些小型机器，可以存在。事实上，没有这些机器的话，Chris, 今天的出席状况将非常惨烈。（笑）（音乐）
en:But these machines that power the inside of the cellsare really quite amazing, and they really are the basis of all lifebecause all of these machines interact with each other.They pass information to each other.They cause different things to happen inside the cell.And the cell will actually manufacture the parts that it needson the fly, from informationthat&#39;s brought from the nucleus by molecules that read the genes.No life, from the smallest life to everybody here,would be possible without these little micro-machines.In fact, it would really, in the absence of these machines,have made the attendance here, Chris, really quite sparse.(Laughter)(Music)
时间： 7:49
zh-cn:这是细胞中FedEx快递人员：这个小家伙叫驱动蛋白他拉着一大袋新合成的蛋白质，到细胞所需要的任何地方—不论它是细胞膜，还是一个细胞器也不管是用来搭建什么，还是修复什么我们体内每个细胞，大约有10万个这样的小家伙此时此刻，正在跑来跑去而我们大约有100万亿个细胞。所以无论你觉得自己有多懒本质上，你并不是什么都没做。（笑）
en:This is the FedEx delivery guy of the cell.This little guy is called the kinesin,and he pulls a sack that&#39;s full of brand new manufactured proteinsto wherever it&#39;s needed in the cell —whether it&#39;s to a membrane, whether it&#39;s to an organelle,whether it&#39;s to build something or repair something.And each of us has about 100,000 of these thingsrunning around, right now,inside each one of your 100 trillion cells.So no matter how lazy you feel,you&#39;re not really intrinsically doing nothing.(Laughter)
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:当你回家时，我希望你们能够思考这个问题，想想我们的细胞是多么地强大想想我们正在学的细胞机器的种种事情。一旦我们全盘了解细胞内发生的所有事情—相信我，我们大概才知道1%而已—一旦我们了解细胞内的状况，我们将能更好地控制我们的健康，我们的下一代，我们的寿命。并且，希望我们可以借此去发现更多的真和美。（音乐）
en:So what I want you to do when you go homeis think about this, and think about how powerful our cells are.And think about some of the thingsthat we&#39;re learning about cellular mechanics.Once we figure out all that&#39;s going on —and believe me, we know almost a percent of what&#39;s going on —once we figure out what&#39;s going on,we&#39;re really going to be able to have a lot of controlover what we do with our health,with what we do with future generations,and how long we&#39;re going to live.And hopefully we&#39;ll be able to use thisto discover more truth, and more beauty.(Music)
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:这些细胞，这些微型机器，真的不可思议，它们能过意识到细胞需要它们为其做些什么事情他们同心协力，它们使细胞能够完成需要做的事情他们通力合作才使我们身体—这个他们永远看不见的巨大整体—能够正常工作。请继续欣赏接下来的表演。谢谢。（掌声）
en:But it&#39;s really quite amazing that these cells, these micro-machines,are aware enough of what the cell needs that they do their bidding.They work together. They make the cell do what it needs to do.And their working together helps our bodies —huge entities that they will never see — function properly.Enjoy the rest of the show. Thank you.(Applause)
