时间： 0:13
zh-cn:库尔特安德森：跟很多建筑师一样，大卫很想成为关注的焦点，但是他又太沉默—至少是假装这样吧—以至他要求我向他提问而不是自己讲述。实际上，我们今天要讨论的这个话题，在我看来通过谈话的方式比演讲的方式讲述也许更好。我们先来看一段新闻短片。
en:Kurt Andersen: Like many architects, David is a hog for the limelightbut is sufficiently reticent — or at least pretends to be —that he asked me to question him rather than speaking.In fact what we&#39;re going to talk about,I think, is in fact a subject that is probably better servedby a conversation than an address.And I guess we have a bit of news clip to precede.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:丹拉瑟: 从911世贸中心被袭击之后，很多人都涌进纽约市区那个16英亩的墓地来凭吊死者。现在，正如哥伦比亚广播公司的记者吉姆艾克斯罗德报道的，那些工人正在为一条新的通道做最后的装修。这条新通道是专门供人参观现场的。
en:Dan Rather: Since the September 11th attack on the World Trade Center,many people have flocked to downtown New York to seeand pay respects at what amounts to the 16-acre burial ground.Now, as CBS&#39;s Jim Axelrod reports, they&#39;re putting the finishing toucheson a new way for people to visit and view the scene.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:吉姆艾克斯罗德： 除了帝国大厦和自由女神像之外，在纽约又有了个新地方它是现在人群最拥挤的地方——世贸废墟中心。
en:Jim Axelrod: Forget the Empire State Building or the Statue of Liberty.There&#39;s a new place in New Yorkwhere the crowds are thickest — Ground Zero.
时间： 1:10
zh-cn:游客： 我把我的继女从印第安纳波利斯带到这里了。在纽约市众多的旅游景点中，这是她的首选。
en:Tourist: I&#39;ve taken my step-daughter here from Indianapolis.This was — out of all the tourist sites in New York City —this was her number-one pick.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:吉姆：现在成千上万的人正在下百脑汇街排队。
en:JA: Thousands now line up on lower Broadway.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:游客： 自那事故以来，我一直想来这里看看。
en:Tourist: I&#39;ve been wanting to come down here since this happened.
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:吉姆： 即使在最寒冷的冬天。为了悼念和铭记。
en:JA: Even on the coldest winter days.To honor and remember.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:游客： 它是真实发生的，就发生在我们身上，就发生在这里。这是我们共同的苦难。
en:Tourist: It&#39;s reality, it&#39;s us. It happened here.This is ours.
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:吉姆： 事实上，人太多了，以至来这里凭吊已经存在一些小问题。
en:JA: So many, in fact, that seeing has becomea bit of a problem.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:游客： 我想人们都很沮丧，因为他们不能靠得更近看看到底是怎样的情况。
en:Tourist: I think that people are very frustratedthat they&#39;re not able to get closer to see what&#39;s going on.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:吉姆： 但是这个将会得到改变。以创纪录的速度，一支由建筑师和建筑工人组成的队伍设计并建造了一个观景台来缓解这种沮丧—可以让人们走的更近了。
en:JA: But that is about to change.In record time,a team of architects and construction workersdesigned and built a viewing platform to ease the frustrationand bring people closer.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:某男子： 人们将会看到一个难以置信的场景。我想人们可以更加深刻的感受到，世贸中心倒塌后的整体面貌。
en:Man: They&#39;ll get an incredible panoramaand understand, I think more completely,the sheer totality of the destruction of the place.
时间： 2:08
zh-cn:吉姆： 如果你稍微想想，你会发现世贸废墟中心并不像美国其他绝大多数的旅游景点。不像大峡谷和华盛顿山，人们来到这里只是为了来看已经消失的东西。
en:JA: If you think about it, Ground Zero is unlikemost any other tourist site in America.Unlike the Grand Canyon or the Washington Monument,people come here to see what&#39;s no longer there.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:大卫洛克威尔：人们看到这个的时候，第一个感受会是，这个不像是个建筑工地，而是一个难以置信的移动墓地。
en:David Rockwell: The first experience people will have herewhen they see this is not as a construction sitebut as this incredibly moving burial ground.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:吉姆： 那些墙被设计成光秃秃的。这样人们可以在上面写上他们自己的悼词，就像他们已经在周围写的那样。
en:JA: The walls are bare by design, so people can fill themwith their own memorials the way they already havealong the current perimeter.
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:游客： 这些悼词深深触动了我们的心扉。
en:Tourist: From our hearts, it affected us just as much.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:吉姆： 那些斜坡是用简单的材料搭建而成的—就是你在建筑工地可以看到的那种夹板—这个就是真正的重点。在面对美国所遭受的最严重的破坏的同时，人们又开始重建。吉姆·阿克吉姆艾克斯罗德，哥伦比亚广播公司，在纽约报道。
en:JA: The ramps are made of simple material —the kind of plywood you see at construction sites —which is really the whole point.In the face of America&#39;s worst destructionpeople are building again.Jim Axelrod, CBS News, New York.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:库尔特： 这个观景台并不是一个明显注重感官享受的建筑，但是大卫，众所周知—我知道你讨厌这个词—你是一个娱乐场所建筑师。你的作品都是很注重感官享受， 甚至是追求享乐主义的。
en:KA: This is not an obvious subject to be in the sensuality segment,but certainly David you are known as — I know, a phrase you hate —an entertainment architect.Your work is highly sensual, even hedonistic.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:大卫： 我喜欢这个词。
en:DR: I like that word.
时间： 3:14
zh-cn:库尔特： 好吧。 你的作品都是关于享受的—像赌场，酒店和餐厅。对于我们—尤其是我们纽约人911所带来的震惊是怎么促使你改变从而渴望去做这样一件事情的呢？
en:KA: It&#39;s about pleasure — casinos and hotels and restaurants.How did the shock that all of us — and especially all of us in New York —felt on the 11th of September transmuteinto your desire to do this thing?
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:大卫： 其实真实的原因是这样的。 911之后，我去感受我自己原本真实的角色—首先我住在特里贝卡，我的街坊邻居都被毁坏了，而且我还在离世贸中心不到一英里的地方上班—在我的公司里，我曾经要求100个人和我一起工作，一起怀着同样的热情去创造我们一直以来创造的那些建筑。事实上，我们将要完成一本可以称之为“享乐”的书，内容是关于空间的感官享受。
en:DR: Well the truth of the matter is, post-September 11th,I felt myself in the role originally —first of all as someone who lives in Tribecaand whose neighborhood was devastated,and as someone who works less than a mile from there —that I was in the role of forcing 100 people who work with mein my firm, to continue to have the same level of enthusiasmabout creating the places we had been creating.In fact we&#39;re finishing a book which is called &quot;Pleasure,&quot;which is about sensual pleasure in spaces.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:但是我想告诉你—这本书变得不可能完成。我们几乎都瘫痪了。就在911后的礼拜五—也就是事情发生两天之后—我发现自己基本上不能激励任何人去做任何事了。我们只好给员工放了几天假。
en:But I&#39;ve got to tell you — it became impossible to do that.We were really paralyzed.And I found myself the Friday after September 11th —two days afterwards —literally unable to motivate anyone to do anything.We gave the office a few days off.
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:再跟其他的一些建筑师讨论这个问题的时候，我们发现人们在媒体上说那些塔楼应该按原来的样子重建起来—甚至要比原来还要高50层。在我看来，真是令人吃惊的想法，你可以想象这就像一场竞赛，就在我们刚刚受伤的伤口上竞赛。对于这个我有过一系列的讨论—首先和里克斯科菲迪奥和利兹迪勒，他们和我合作建造这个项目，还有一些其他人—我真的觉得我们必须找到共同点来一起做点什么。对于建筑师来说，最终施与帮助的方式不是武断的发表意见或者虚构一些方案，而是立刻采取实质性的行动。所以我们尝试采用一种方式，像一个整体，组成一支类似特警一样的设计团队。这个就是我们提出来的任务。
en:And in discussing this with other architects,we had seen people saying in the pressthat they should rebuild the towers as they were —they should rebuild them 50 stories taller.And I thought it was astonishing to speculate,as if this were a competition,on something that was such a fresh wound.And I had a series of discussions —first with Rick Scofidio and Liz Diller, who collaborated with us on this,and several other people —and really felt like we had to find relevance in doing something.And that as people who create places, the ultimate way to helpwasn&#39;t to pontificate or to make up scenarios,but to help right now.So we tried to come up with a way,as a group, to have a kind of design SWAT team.And that was the mission that we came up with.
时间： 5:22
zh-cn:库尔特： 你是突然意识到—作为一个一直去满足人们欲望的设计师—转而去满足人们的需要吗？
en:KA: Were you conscious of suddenly —as a designer whose work is all about fulfilling wants —suddenly fulfilling needs?
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:大卫： 坦白讲，我所知道的是，有种马上采取行动的迫切需求。在这之前，我们就被邀请参与一些项目。有个原本在世贸废墟中心的叫PS 234 的学校被疏散了。他们搬迁到一个废弃的学校。我们找到2，30个建筑师，设计者和艺术家，花了超过4天的时间—就像这个城市的房屋建造一样—去翻新那个学校。每个人都想帮忙。确实非同一般。汤姆奥特尼斯做出了贡献，迈拉卡尔曼也做出了贡献。对于我们来说，这个成了一次很痛快的经历。
en:DR: Well what I was aware of was,there was this overwhelming need to act now.And we were asked to participate in a few projects before this.There was a school, PS 234, that had been evacuated down at Ground Zero.They moved to an abandoned school.We took about 20 or 30 architects and designers and artists,and over four days — it was like this urban barn-raising —to renovate it, and everyone wanted to help.It was just extraordinary.Tom Otterness contributed, Maira Kalman contributedand it became this cathartic experience for us.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:库尔特：那个项目最后很有效率的完成了，只花了3个礼拜的时间—差不多在10月8号之前，是吗？
en:KA: And that was done, effectively,by October 8 or something?
时间： 6:16
zh-cn:大卫： 是的。
en:DR: Yeah.
时间： 6:18
zh-cn:库尔特： 很明显，在试图建造这个实质性的项目的同时你会面对很多事情—短片上看到的只是你设计的环绕废墟四周的观景台的四分之一—你一定遇到不少困难吧，在同那些关系复杂又盘根错节的官僚和权力部门纽约房地产界和政界打交道的时候？
en:KA: Obviously, what you faced in trying to do somethingas substantial as this project — and this is only one of fourthat you&#39;ve designed to surround the site —you must have run up against the incredibly byzantine,entrenched bureaucracy and powers that bein New York real estate and New York politics.
时间： 6:41
zh-cn:大卫： 确实是件很有趣的事情。我们完成PS 234 的项目之后，同一个小组一起吃了晚饭。实际上我被邀请担任友邦保险有限公司重建委员会的主席。之后我参加了一些会议。很多冗长的宏伟计划被提出来，都是与长期的基础建设和整个城市的重建相关。实际的问题是，有很多紧迫的创伤和需求需要被抚慰和满足。其中有个谈话是关于广泛性的，他们希望重建是一个广泛性的进程。然而它并不是一个广泛代表性的组织。所以我们说，什么是—
en:DR: Well, it&#39;s a funny thing.We finished PS 234, and had dinner with a small group.I was actually asked to be a committee chair on an AIA committee to rebuild.And I sat in on several meetings.And there were the most circuitous grand plansthat had to do with long-term infrastructure and rebuilding the entire city.And the fact is that there were immediate wounds and needs that needed to be filled,and there was talk about inclusion and wanting it to be an inclusive process.And it wasn&#39;t an inclusive group.So we said, what is —
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:库尔特： 它不是一个广泛性的组织？
en:KA: It was not an inclusive group?
时间： 7:16
zh-cn:大卫： 它不是。它是由白人，富人和公司集团组成的组织几乎不具有城市代表性。
en:DR: It was not an inclusive group.It was predominantly a white, rich, corporate groupthat was not representative of the city.
时间： 7:25
zh-cn:库尔特： 令人吃惊！
en:KA: Shocking.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:大卫： 确实很令人吃惊。所以里克，利兹和我想出了那个方案。实际上是市政府先找到我们说这个事情。我们开始找到市政府是谈论94号码头的事。因为我们已经看到了PS 234 的项目是怎么做的。而那些家属—遇害者的家属—都去那个码头，选择这个地方是非常不合理的。
en:DR: Yeah, surprising.So Rick and Liz and Kevin and I came up with the idea.The city actually approached us.We first approached the city about Pier 94.We saw how PS 234 worked.The families — the victims of the families —were going to this pier that was incredibly dehumanizing.
时间： 7:47
zh-cn:库尔特：在亨登河？
en:KA: On the Hudson River?
时间： 7:49
zh-cn:大卫： 是的。市政府实际上—一开始通过蒂姆扎加特，然后通过克里斯特尼尼古拉斯, 最后我们找到朱利安尼市长—他说我们暂时不想对94号码头做什么事情，但是如果我们能在世贸废墟中心给那些家属提供一个观景台，那将是给那些家属们一个更加人性化的体验，可以让他们避免风吹日晒。
en:DR: Yeah. And the city actually — through Tim Zagat initially,and then through Christyne Nicholas, then we got to Giuliani —said, &quot;You know we don&#39;t want to do anything with Pier 94 right now,but we have an observation platform for the families down at Ground Zerothat we&#39;d like to be a more dignified experience for the families,and a way to protect it from the weather.&quot;
时间： 8:07
zh-cn:所以我同里克，利兹和凯文去了那里。我不得不说，这是我生命中最感动的一次经历。看着简单的夹板和围栏搭成的平台，真是很让人触动上面还有遇害者的家属留下的话语。在我们和这里的一切经历中无需任何调节没有任何的过滤。
en:So I went down there with Rick and Liz and Kevin,and I&#39;ve got to say, it was the most moving experience of my life.It was devastating to see the simple plywood platform with a rail around it,where the families of the victims had left notes to them.And there was no mediation between us and the experience.There was no filter.
时间： 8:29
zh-cn:我记得9月11号，在14号街，我们的楼房屋顶上—我们可以清晰的看到世贸大厦—那时我看到了第一栋楼房倒塌就在8楼会议室安装的电视上。然后所有人都跑到屋顶上，我也跑上去了。真的非常令人惊讶，比起在电视上看到的场景，真的很难相信它会在现实生活中发生。有种关于过滤的安慰。在我们和现实体验之间有太多的信息。所以说通过这种简单而又威严的方式观看是一种非常强大的体验。
en:And I remembered on September 11th, on 14th Street,the roof of our building — we can see the World Trade Towers prominently —and I saw the first building collapse from a conference roomon the eighth floor on a TV that we had set up.And then everyone was up on the roof, so I ran up there.And it was amazing how much harder it wasto believe in real life than it was on TV.There was something about the comfort of the filterand how much information was between us and the experience.So seeing this in a very simple,dignified way was a very powerful experience.
时间： 9:07
zh-cn:所以后来我们又回到市政府那里，跟他们说，我们现在对把94号码头升级成贵宾看台的想法一点兴趣都没有，但是我们确实在这件事上花了些时间。同时市政府也有这样的需要。他们想要找到一个方案去处理每天3,4万去那里又没有其它地方可去的人群。同时他们也没有办法去控制废墟周围的交通。所以解决这个问题成了一个迫在眉睫的总体规划。那里应该有一个通道—而且必须有个通道—让人们在废墟周围移动起来。
en:So we went back to the city and saidwe&#39;re not particularly interested in the upgrade of this as a VIP platform,but we&#39;ve spent some time down there.At the same time the city had this need.They were looking for a solutionto deal with 30 or 40 thousand people a daywho were going down there, that had nowhere to go.And there was no way to deal with the traffic around the site.So dealing with it is just an immediate master plan.There was a way — there had to be a way —to get people to move around the site.
时间： 9:39
zh-cn:库尔特： 但是之后你必须找出一个办法—我们就跳过那些获得批准和让每个人各就各位的令人疯狂而厌烦的过程—简单来讲关于钱这个事情。虽然看上去是个相当简单的事情，但是怎么说这差不多也是个50万美元的项目吧？
en:KA: But then you&#39;ve got to figure out a way —we will skip over the insanely tedious process of getting permitsand getting everybody on board — but simply funding this thing.It looks like a fairly simple thing,but this was a half a million dollar project?
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:大卫： 确实。我们知道如果没有私人出资的话，它将没法实现。坦白来讲，我们也知道如果不能在朱利安尼市长任期内启动，我们得重新和那些政府人员打交道，包括交通部，警察局，所有这些政府部门的人—我们每次开会的2，30个政府部门的人一起。后来是应急管理办公室启动了这个项目。对于他们来说确实是个很好的举措，因为他们真的很需要这个，而且他们察觉到这个势在必行。
en:DR: Well, we knew that if it wasn&#39;t privately funded,it wasn&#39;t going to happen.And we also, frankly, knew that if it didn&#39;t happenby the end of the Giuliani administration,then everyone who we were dealing with at the DOTand the Police Department and all of the —we were meeting with 20 or 30 people with the city at a time,and it was set up by the Office of Emergency Management.This incredible act on their part, because they really wanted this,and they sensed that this needed to happen.
时间：10:21
zh-cn:库尔特： 因此就有了这个时间截点了？我们知道朱莉安尼在那3个月后就离任了。
en:KA: And there was therefore this ticking clock,because Giuliani was obviously out three months after that.
时间：10:28
zh-cn:大卫： 是的。 所以我们要做的第一件事情就是通气—我们必须和遇难者家属一起通过市政府，来确保他们都知道这个项目。因为我们不想这个项目让大家觉得突然。而且我们还得在纽约尽可能的低调行事，因为关键是不要引起很多的反对声音，某种程度上尽可能悄悄地工作。
en:DR: Yeah. So the first thing we had to do was find a way to get this —we had to work with the families of the victims,through the city, to make sure that they knew this was happening.Because this didn&#39;t want to be a surprise.And we also had to be as under the radar screen as we could be in New York,because the key was not raising a lot of objectionand sort of working as quietly as possible.
时间：10:53
zh-cn:我们想到建立基金，主要是因为当我们找到一个可能承建这个项目的承包商的时候，他很可能不会同意做这个项目，即使我们会支付费用给他。所以我们需要一个基金。于是我们就建立了一个基金，实际上主要是纽约一个大开发商—
en:We came up with the idea of setting up a foundation,mainly because when we found a contractor who would build this,he would not agree to do this, even if we would pay him the money.There needed to be a foundation in place.So we came up with a foundation, and actually what happened wasone major developer in New York —
时间：11:15
zh-cn:库尔特： 我猜是谁甘愿隐姓埋名呢？
en:KA: Who shall remain nameless, I guess?
时间：11:17
zh-cn:大卫： 他的名字首字母是JS，而且他拥有洛克菲勒中心，希望这个可以帮大家猜猜—他志愿帮助我们。后来我们和他见面。承包商们的报价从5美元到70万美元都有。而美国最大的脚手架承包商亚特南迪克海特，志愿以成本价承建这个项目。所以那个大开发商说：“你知道吗，我们会支付整个费用。”而我们说：“真是好极了！”
en:DR: Yeah. His initials are JS, and he owns Rockefeller Center,if that helps anyone — volunteered to help.And we met with him.The prices from the contractors were between five to 700,000 dollars.And Atlantic-Heydt, who&#39;s the largest scaffolding contractor in the country,volunteered to do it at cost.So this developer said, &quot;You know what, we&#39;ll underwrite the entire expense.&quot;And we said, &quot;That&#39;s incredible!&quot;
时间：11:45
zh-cn:我想那天是21号，而我们知道这个观景台必须在28号之前完工。我们必须在第二天就开始建造。那天晚上我们跟那个承包商开了个会，那个承包商展示了观景台的草图，可是它只有我们设计的一半大小。
en:And I think this was the 21st,and we knew this had to be built and up by the 28th.And we had to start construction the next day.We had a meeting that evening with his contractor of choice,and the contractor showed up with the drawings of the platformabout half the size that we had drawn it.
时间：12:03
zh-cn:库尔特：我猜有点像脊椎塔里的场景，从那里可以看到微小的巨石阵？（笑）
en:KA: Sort of like the Spinal Tap scene where you getthe tiny little Stonehenge, I guess?(Laughter)
时间：12:11
zh-cn:大卫： 实际上，它就像一个为擦窗户准备的脚手架。一点都不符合当时的场景—紧挨着圣保罗教堂—那是一个需要庄严的地方，一个需要尊重和纪念的地方。我不得不说我们花了那么多时间把这个搭建起来，看着那些聚集在圣保罗大教堂的拥挤的人群—正好在右边—在废墟周围移动我住在那里，所以我们花了很长的时间去了解人们的需要。
en:DR: In fact, it was as if this was going to be window-washing scaffolding.There was no sense of the fact that this is next to Saint Paul —that this is really a place that needs to be kind of dignified,and a place to reflect and remember.And I&#39;ve got to say that we spent a lot of timein putting this together, watching the crowds that gathered at Saint Paul —which is just to the right — and moving around the site.And I live down there, so we spent a lot of time looking at the need.
时间：12:36
zh-cn:我想人们会因为两个事情而感到震惊—他们会因破坏而感到震惊，但是我想人们也会因怀疑纽约人感人的英雄主义而感到震惊。就是某种纽约人的日常的英雄主义。
en:And I think people were amazed at two things —I think they were amazed at the destruction,but I think there was a sense of disbeliefabout the heroics of New Yorkers that I found very moving.Just the sort of everyday heroics of New Yorkers.
时间：12:52
zh-cn:所以在那个会议上，那个承包商着字着句的说，“我要把门锁起来，因为开发商不会同意在你们签订这个合约之前放你们走的。”而我们说：“但是这只有一半大小，也没有我们之前同意的任何设计特色包括城市里的每一个人。我们必须从头开始做这个项目。”最后我说服了他，在我们离开会议室之前我们达成一致，按照原先的设计重新建造。
en:So we were in this meeting and the contractor literally said,&quot;I&#39;m going to lock the door, because this developerwill not agree to have you leave till you&#39;ve signed off on this.&quot;And we said, &quot;Well, this is half the size,it doesn&#39;t have any of the design featuresthat have been agreed upon by everyone — everyone in the city.We&#39;d have to go back to the beginning to do this.&quot;And I convinced him that we should leave the roomwith the agreement to build it as designed.
时间：13:22
zh-cn:第二天我收到开发商的邮件，他说要撤掉所有的资金。我们不知道怎么办，但是我们决定要撒一张大网。我们给尽可能多的人发了邮件—包括很多在场的听众—他们都提供了很好的帮助。
en:The next day I got an email from the developersaying that he was withdrawing all funding.So we didn&#39;t know what to do,but we decided to cast a very wide net.We emailed out letters to as many people as we could —several people in the audience here — who were very helpful.
时间：13:42
zh-cn:库尔特： 那个时候就没有想过要放弃吗？
en:KA: There was no thought of abandoning ship at that point?
时间：13:45
zh-cn:大卫： 没有。事实上，我告诉那个承包商继续施工。他也已经按照我的要求订购了材料。我们知道不管怎么样，这个项目总会完成。我们只是觉得它必须完成。
en:DR: No. In fact I told the contractor to go ahead.He had already ordered materials based on my go-ahead.We knew that one way or another this was going to happen.And we just felt it had to happen.
时间：13:59
zh-cn:库尔特： 后来你就自己出资，连同一些捐助和这个基金完成这个项目。我记得理查德在刚开始就提到—就是在所有的项目首席设计师意识到之前—他说一直以来首席设计师对这种很平常的设计问题都追求一种审美方案。但是对我来说，这个项目却恰恰相反。因为这是个前所未有的，独一无二的设计问题。
en:KA: You were funding it yourself and with contributions and this foundation.Richard, I think very correctly,made the point at the beginning —before all the chair designers came out —about the history of chair designers imposing aesthetic solutionson this kind of universal, banal, common problem of sitting.It seems to me with this,that it was the opposite of that.This was an unprecedented, singular design problem.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:大卫： 确实，这就是问题所在。我们知道这个项目确实没有审美的特色—我们考虑了这个遗址，考虑到人们可能需要一种纪念碑一样的东西。但是有一点很重要，这个项目不是一种纪念物。而是供人们来凭吊和纪念的场所—很肃穆的场所。
en:DR: Well here&#39;s the issue:we knew that this was not in the sense of —we think about the site, and think about the need for a memorial.It was important that this not be categorized as a memorial.That this was a place for people to reflect, to remember —a kind of quiet place.
时间：14:58
zh-cn:这就使得我们选用了这种设计方案，尽可能少的在观众和真实的体验之间产生过滤—就像我们之前说的家属看台一样。这个看台全都是用难以置信的普通的材料，就是脚手架和夹板。它可以使得观众移动起来，可以上到圣保罗教堂那边然后从另一边下去。它提供了300英尺长的通道，并可以把你带到离地13英尺的高度，从那里可以看到360度的视角。
en:So it led us to using design solutionsthat created as few filters between the viewer —as we said about the families&#39; platform — and the experience as possible.It&#39;s all incredibly humble material.It&#39;s scaffolding and plywood.And it allows — by sort of the procession of the movement,up by Saint Paul&#39;s and down the other side —it gives you about 300 feet to go up 13 feet from the groundto where you get the 360 degree view.
时间：15:29
zh-cn:但是这个设计一直考虑到快速，廉价，安全，庄严和灵活性方面的需求。这其中的一个要求就是可以移动。因为当我们看到废墟周围的四个平台，其中一个是从家属看台更新而来的，所以我们考虑到这些必须可以移动，来应对不停改变的环境，和对于世贸废墟中心是什么的这种定义的改变。
en:But the design was driven by a need to be quick, cheap, safe, respectful, flexible.One of the other things is this is designed to be moveable.Because when we looked at the four platforms around the site,one of which is an upgrade of the families&#39; platform,we knew that these had to be moveableto respond to changing conditions,and the changing definition of what Ground Zero is.
时间：15:57
zh-cn:库尔特： 你的作品—我们之前已经讨论过这个问题—我想很多你的作品都是基于你的一种信念，或者说你专注于表现所有事物的临时性和短暂性。像“吃，喝，享乐，因为我们明天可能就会死”，这种及时行乐的观念。而这明显不是一个会长久存在的作品。你知道，很多年之后，这个东西将不会存在了。作为一个建筑师，这会要求你重新思考你那时正在做的东西吗？去把它作为一个纯粹的临时性的建筑来考虑？
en:KA: Your work — I mean, we&#39;ve talked about this before —a lot of your work, I think, is informed by your belief in, or your focus onthe temporariness of all things and the evanescence of things,and a kind of &quot;Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die,&quot;sort of sense of existence.This is clearly not a work for the ages.You know, a couple of years this thing isn&#39;t going to be here.Did that require, as an architect,a new way of thinking about what you were doing?To think of it as this purely temporary installation?
时间：16:36
zh-cn:大卫： 我不这样认为。在我看来，这个是有实质性的不同相对于我们之前做的任何项目比起来一般来讲，除了对于我们工作的一些想法之外，还有一个重要的概念—就是以某种方式联合起来一起把事情完成的概念。凯文肯农，里克斯科菲迪奥,利兹迪勒和城市里的所有人—诺曼李尔, 在我们寻找资金的截止日期前的4个小时，我在跟他谈话，他提供我们短期过度贷款来帮我们顺利度过难关。回到前面说的合作的概念—我想这个例子更加印证了这个概念的重要性。
en:DR: No, I don&#39;t think so.I think this is, obviously, substantially differentfrom anything we&#39;d ever thought about doing before, just by the nature of it.Where it overlaps with thoughts about our work in general is,number one — the notion of collaboration as a sort of way to get things done.And Kevin Kennon, Rick Scofidio, Liz Dillerand all the people within the city —Norman Lear, who I spoke to four hours before our deadline for funding,offered to give us a bridge loan to help us get through it.So the notion of collaboration —I think this reinforces how important that is.
时间：17:20
zh-cn:对于你所说的短暂性，我们的目标不是去建造一个比对它的实际需求还要长的建筑。我想我们最感兴趣的是促进一种关于这个城市正在发生的事情的对话，我觉得这种对话目前在这个城市还不够。它是关于这个城市正在发生的事情的。
en:And in terms of the temporary nature of it,our goal was not to create somethingthat would be there longer than it needed to be.I think what we were most interested in was promoting a kind of dialoguethat we felt may not have been happening enough in this city,about what&#39;s really happening there.
时间：17:41
zh-cn:在这个观景台开放的前一两天，正好是朱利安尼的离任致辞，他提出一个想法，把整个世贸废墟中心建成一个纪念碑。虽然这个想法引起了很大的争议，但是它也在很多人之间引起了共鸣。我想不管那个地方是关于什么，不管这片神圣的土地将作何用途，只要让人们的想法产生碰撞，这就成了一个非常强有力的对话。而这个就是我们所感兴趣的。所以说，也是属于我之前一直感兴趣的领域。
en:And a day or two before it opened was Giuliani&#39;s farewell address,where he proposed the idea of all of Ground Zero being a memorial.Which was very controversial, but it resonated with a lot of people.And I think regardless of what the position is about howthis sacred piece of land is to be used,having it come out of actually seeing it in a real encounter,I think makes it a more powerful dialogue.And that&#39;s what we were interested in.So that, very much, is in the realm of thingsI&#39;ve been interested in before.
时间：18:16
zh-cn:库尔特： 在我看来，跟其他的建筑物相比，这是一件很可爱的市政基础建设。它使对话变得严肃。就在袭击之后的6个月—也就是废墟被清理干净后的几个月—我们就很快的让关于在废墟上建什么的谈话变得严肃而认真。作为一个建筑师，已经深入到废墟现场，去做这个项目，那么关于这个废墟—你有没有什么建议关于应该做什么，不应该做什么？
en:KA: It seems to me, among other things, a lovely piece of civic infrastructure.It enables that conversation to get serious.And six months after the fact —and only a few months away from the site being cleaned —we are very quickly, now, getting to the pointwhere those conversations about what should go there are getting serious.Do you have — having been as physically involved in the siteas you have been doing this project — have any ideas aboutwhat should or shouldn&#39;t be done?
时间：18:46
zh-cn:大卫： 我想有一件事情是不应该做的，那就是评价—我发现现在的讨论都非常接近关于总体规划的讨论。最近普罗德施画廊举办了一个关于建筑理念的展览，那里有些很新的建筑理念。
en:DR: Well, I think one thing that shouldn&#39;t be done is evaluate —I think right now the discussion is a very closed discussion on the master plan.The Protetch Gallery recently had a show on ideas for buildings,which had some sort of inventive ideas of buildings.
时间：19:06
zh-cn:库尔特： 但是也有很多糟糕的理念。
en:KA: But it had some really terrible ideas.
时间：19:08
zh-cn:大卫： 它有点像个观念的竞赛，我想理念的焦点应该放在总体的规划和使用上。我想应该有一个更加宽广的思路—就像正在开始改变的那样。对话真的正在展开，关于这个废墟到底应该变成什么？我坚持认为，除非关于建纪念碑的想法被放弃了，不然很难有什么明智的讨论。现在有一些讨论我觉得非常的可行，关于降下西边高速公路，然后把这里连接起来，这样就有一个不受干扰的地方了。
en:DR: And it also felt a little bit like a kind of competition of ideas,where I think the focus of ideas should be on master planning and uses.And I think there should be a broader — which there&#39;s starting to be —the dialogue is really opening up to,what does this site really want to be?And I truly believe until the issue of memorial is sorted out,that it&#39;s going to be very hard to have an intelligent discussion.There&#39;s a few discussions right now that I think are very positive,about depressing the West Side Highway and connecting this over,so that there&#39;s one uninterrupted piece of land.
时间：19:43
zh-cn:库尔特： 这个想法很有趣。它让我想起另外一个问题，可能并不是很合适在六个月前讨论，但是现在也许可以了。我们很多人并不喜欢这个城市里有世贸中心这个建筑，还有那个巨大的广场。你觉得现在是一个机会吗—很有希望的机会—去重建一些更加传统的城市建筑？
en:KA: Well, I think that&#39;s interesting.And it gets to another issue that was probably inappropriateto discuss six months ago, but perhaps isn&#39;t now,which is, not many of us love the World Trade Center as a piece of architecture,as what it had done to this city and that huge plaza.Is this an opportunity, is the silver lining —a silver lining, here — to rebuildsome more traditional city grid, or not?
时间：20:09
zh-cn:大卫： 我想这倒真是一个机会开始讨论我们为什么居住在城市。为什么我们住在这样一个地方，如此不一样的人每天彼此之间都有很多冲突？我不认为新建5万，6万，7万，或者8万新办公室有多少意义，不管你建多少。所以说，这是一个机会，重新审视我们是怎样看待城市。
en:DR: I think there&#39;s a real opportunity to engagein a discussion of why we live in cities.And why do we live in places where such dissimilar peoplecollide up against us each day?I don&#39;t think it has much to do with 50 or 60 or 70 or 80 thousand new office spaces,regardless of what the number is.So yeah, I think there is a chance to re-look at how we think about cities.
时间：20:30
zh-cn:事实上，已经有一个方案在讨论，是关于新建7号楼的。
en:And in fact, there&#39;s a proposal on the table now for building number seven.
时间：20:36
zh-cn:库尔特： 就是世贸塔楼北边的那个建筑？
en:KA: Which was the building just north of the Towers?
时间：20:38
zh-cn:大卫： 对的，塔楼正好倒在它的上面。之所以一直耽搁主要是因为来自于社区居民的愤怒他们一直关闭街道。这个街道是连接城市的。所以我想要一个公开的对话—你知道的，我想看到一个国际化的竞争，来征集建设方案。
en:DR: Right, which the towers fell into.And the reason that&#39;s been held up is essentially by community outragethat they&#39;re not re-opening the streetto connect that back to the rest of the city.I think a public dialogue — I think, you know,I&#39;d like to see an international competition,and a call for ideas for uses.
时间：20:59
zh-cn:库尔特： 不论它是艺术品，房屋，还是大量的商场吗？
en:KA: Whether it&#39;s arts, whether it&#39;s housing,whether it&#39;s what amount of shopping?
时间：21:03
zh-cn:大卫： 对的。我们正在探索其他的东西。我们所建立的这个小基金正在寻求其他能够帮助的方式。比如，在废墟附近找块小地方，邀请10个目前在纽约还没有声望的建筑师来作为艺术家住房。同时寻找其他的方式鼓励更多的讨论来反对单一的方案，我们需要更多关于事物的多样性。
en:DR: Right. And we&#39;re looking for other things.This small foundation we put together is looking for other ways to help.Including taking a small piece adjacent to the siteand inviting 10 architects who currently don&#39;t have a voicein New York to do artist housing.And find other ways to encourage the discussionto be against sort of monolithic, single solutions,and more about a multiplicity of things.
时间：21:27
zh-cn:库尔特： 在我们结束之前，我知道你还有一个短片要展示是关于在这个观景台上的真实体验的
en:KA: Before we end, I know you have a piece of digital videoof the experience of being on this platform?
时间：21:37
zh-cn:大卫： 约翰卡门—就是短片上这个人—做了一个2分半钟的短片来展示这个看台。所以我认为这是个很好的结束方式。
en:DR: John Kamen — who&#39;s here, actually — put togethera two and a half minute piece that shows the platform in use.So I thought that would be good to end with.
时间：21:58
zh-cn:大卫： 我们正从富尔顿街的西面看过去。在我们和朱利安尼之间有个很有意思的问题，我之前忘记了朱利安尼非常反对涂鸦。而实质上我们的建筑就是用来涂写的。
en:DR: We&#39;re looking from Fulton Street, west.One of the tricky issues we had with the Giuliani administrationwas I had forgotten how anti-graffiti he was.And essentially our structure was designed to be written on.
时间：22:18
zh-cn:库尔特： 就像你说的，它不是一个纪念碑。但是你之前有考虑过纪念碑吗？比如越战纪念碑？这之类的一些形式？
en:KA: As you say, it&#39;s not a memorial.But were you conscious of memorials? The Vietnam Memorial?Those kinds of forms?
时间：22:24
zh-cn:大卫： 我们当然是做了尽可能多的研究，我们也关注过其他的一些纪念碑。我们研究了它们的复杂性和实际上花费的时间。实际上是因为俄克拉何马州的委员会上的350个人，让我们觉得这个应该是自己组织的，自发的方案来作为联合广场的延伸也是这个城市里一个自发组织的纪念碑。
en:DR: We certainly did as much research as we could,and we were conscious of other memorials.And also the complexity and length of time they really take to do.It&#39;s 350 people on the committee for Oklahoma City,which is why we thought of this as a sort of ad-hoc, spontaneous solutionthat expanded on Union Squareand the places that were ad-hoc memorials in the city already.
时间：22:56
zh-cn:你可以看到建在那个街道上方的脚手架，它是可以拆卸的。
en:The scaffolding you can see built up over the street is de-mountable.
时间：23:12
zh-cn:有趣的是，现在那个废墟的自然面貌已经彻底改变了，以至你们现在所注意到的不是在世贸中心的一些倒塌建筑物的碎块，而是围绕在废墟周围的建筑—和它周围建筑上的伤痕，那些巨大的伤痕。这左边就是圣保罗教堂。
en:What&#39;s interesting now is the nature of the site has totally changed,so that what you&#39;re aware ofis not just the destruction of the buildings in Ground Zero,but all of the buildings around it —and the scars on the building around it, which are enormous.This shows Saint Paul&#39;s on the left.
时间：23:37
zh-cn:库尔特： 感谢你代表纽约人能够促成这件事情。但是对于这个建筑的瞬时性，和它的存在，甚至在你可以相信如此宏大的一个项目可以被完成之前，我想这些就是它的非凡特性的一部分—我不知道用美丽这个词是不是合适—但是对于它的意义来讲完全合适。
en:KA: I just want to thank you on behalf of New Yorkersfor making this happen and getting this done.But the kind of virtually instantaneous nature of its erection,and its being there,almost before you could believethat a response of this magnitude could be accomplished,is part of its extraordinary —I don&#39;t know if beauty is the word —but presence.
时间：24:11
zh-cn:大卫： 能做这个项目也是我的荣幸。我们也很激动能够在这里展示给大家。
en:DR: It was an honor to do.And we were thrilled to be able to show it here.
