时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我在塞拉利昂出生长大，这是一个小而美丽的国家位于非洲的西部，这里有丰富的物产资源和富有创造力的人才。
en:I was born and raised in Sierra Leone,a small and very beautiful countryin West Africa,a country rich both in physical resourcesand creative talent.
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:然而，令塞拉利昂声名狼藉的是 90 年代那场长达 10 年的叛乱战争，在那次战乱中，很多村庄遭受到灭顶之灾。大约有 8000 个男人、女人和孩子在战乱中受伤，他们的手或腿被截肢。我和家人为避难而逃离了那里当时我12岁左右，我下定决心，要尽我所能来确保我的孩子们不会再历经过去的经验。事实上，他们将是塞拉利昂的一员在这个国家，战争和残害他人不再是夺取权力的策略。
en:However, Sierra Leone is infamousfor a decade-long rebel war in the &#39;90swhen entire villages were burnt down.An estimated 8,000 men, women and childrenhad their arms and legs amputated during this time.As my family and I ran for safetywhen I was about 12 from one of those attacks,I resolved that I would do everything I couldto ensure that my own childrenwould not go through the same experiences we had.They would, in fact, be part of a Sierra Leonewhere war and amputationwere no longer a strategy for gaining power.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:当我看到我认识、关心的人们，从战争的废墟中恢复生气，有一件事令我非常烦恼那就是，国内很多被截肢者，无法使用他们的假肢。我了解到这其中的原因是，他们的假肢接受腔因无法与残肢适配，而感到疼痛。假肢接受腔是一个插孔被截肢者将他们的残肢插入其中假肢接受腔就和踝关节假体连接在一起。即使在发达国家，患者也常需要等待三周到数年的时间才能获得一个舒适的假肢接受腔。修复学家们仍使用传统的制造方法比如用模子塑性和铸造来制作出单一材料的假肢接受腔。这样的接受腔时常会给病人的残肢带来难以承受的压力，令他们感到痛苦和起水泡。这和你的假体踝关节的有力程度没有关系。如果你的假肢接受腔不舒适，你就不会使用你的腿，这在我们这个时代是难以接受的。
en:As I watched people who I knew, loved ones,recover from this devastation,one thing that deeply troubled mewas that many of the amputees in the countrywould not use their prostheses.The reason, I would come to find out,was that their prosthetic socketswere painful because they did not fit well.The prosthetic socket is the partin which the amputee inserts their residual limb,and which connects to the prosthetic ankle.Even in the developed world,it takes a period of three weeks to often yearsfor a patient to get a comfortable socket, if ever.Prosthetists still use conventional processeslike molding and castingto create single-material prosthetic sockets.Such sockets often leave intolerable amountsof pressure on the limbs of the patient,leaving them with pressure sores and blisters.It does not matterhow powerful your prosthetic ankle is.If your prosthetic socket is uncomfortable,you will not use your leg,and that is just simply unacceptable in our age.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:某天，我和休·海恩教授见面，那是在大约两年半前，他问我是否知道如何解决这个问题，我说，“不，还没找到解决办法呢，但我非常想解决它。”因此，我的博士研究期间，在麻省理工学院的媒体实验室，我设计了客制化的假肢接受腔制作过程快并且便宜比起传统的假肢更加舒适。我使用了磁共振成像来捕捉病人肢体解剖图所表现的准确形状再用有限元建模来更好地预测出正常状态下肌体内部所受到的压力和张力，据此创造出假肢接受腔送去制作。我们采用 3D 打印来制作一个多种材料复合的假肢接受腔它根据病人的解剖图设计会减缓肌体所受到的压力。简单来说，我们使用数据来制作新型的接受腔，过程快速并且价格低廉。最近我们在媒体实验室验收试验结果，我们的患者，一位美国老兵他接受截肢手术已经 20 年了他装过数十种假腿，对我们打印出来的作品评论道“这太柔软了，就像在枕头上行走，而且它很性感。”（笑声）
en:So one day, when I met professor Hugh Herrabout two and a half years ago,and he asked me if I knew how to solve this problem,I said, &quot;No, not yet,but I would love to figure it out.&quot;And so, for my Ph.D. at the MIT Media Lab,I designed custom prosthetic socketsquickly and cheaplythat are more comfortablethan conventional prostheses.I used magnetic resonance imagingto capture the actual shape of the patient&#39;s anatomy,then use finite element modeling to better predictthe internal stresses and strainson the normal forces,and then create a prosthetic socket for manufacture.We use a 3D printer to createa multi-material prosthetic socketwhich relieves pressure where neededon the anatomy of the patient.In short, we&#39;re using datato make novel sockets quickly and cheaply.In a recent trial we just wrapped upat the Media Lab,one of our patients, a U.S. veteranwho has been an amputee for about 20 yearsand worn dozens of legs,said of one of our printed parts,&quot;It&#39;s so soft, it&#39;s like walking on pillows,and it&#39;s effing sexy.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:残疾，在这个时代不能阻挡任何人过有意义的生活。我的追求和理想是，我们研究组所开发的工具和加工方法可以为那些有需求的人们带来高功能性的假肢。对我来说，想要开始抚平那些被战争和疾病伤害的人们心灵的创伤就是要先为他们的身体创造出舒适并且价格低廉的接口。无论是在塞拉利昂，还是在波士顿，我希望，这不仅仅是恢复而是真正地激发他们的潜能。
en:Disability in our ageshould not prevent anyonefrom living meaningful lives.My hope and desire is that the tools and processeswe develop in our research groupcan be used to bring highly functional prosthesesto those who need them.For me, a place to begin healing the soulsof those affected by war and diseaseis by creating comfortable and affordable interfacesfor their bodies.Whether it&#39;s in Sierra Leone or in Boston,I hope this not only restoresbut indeed transforms theirsense of human potential.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:非常感谢
en:Thank you very much.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
