时间： 0:11
zh-cn:奥林匹克的精神是“ 高，快，强。”即更高，更快，更强。运动员们立刻执行了这种精神。2012年奥林匹克运动会马拉松冠军花费了2小时8分钟。将他与1904年奥林匹克运动会的马拉松冠军进行比较，他要快将近一个半小时。现在我们都有一种感觉,那就是我们作为人类已有了无可争议的进步，但这并不意味着我们在在一个世纪内进化成了一个新的物种。所以呢？我想要看看这种运动的巨大进步背后究竟存在着什么。
en:The Olympic motto is &quot;Citius, Altius, Fortius.&quot;Faster, Higher, Stronger.And athletes have fulfilled that motto rapidly.The winner of the 2012 Olympic marathonran two hours and eight minutes.Had he been racing against the winnerof the 1904 Olympic marathon,he would have won by nearly an hour and a half.Now we all have this feelingthat we&#39;re somehow just getting betteras a human race, inexorably progressing,but it&#39;s not like we&#39;ve evolved into a new speciesin a century.So what&#39;s going on here?I want to take a look at what&#39;s really behindthis march of athletic progress.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:在1936年，杰西.欧文保持了100米世界纪录。那么杰西.欧文与去年的100米世界冠军比较呢，当牙买加短跑运动员尤塞恩.博尔特完成的时候，欧文仍然还差14英尺完成。这在短跑上是一个很长的距离。为了给大家一个14英尺是多远的概念，我想要给大家分享一个由运动科学家罗斯.塔克研究所得出的结论。现在想象去年的世锦赛的100米比赛体育场；成千上万的粉丝屏住呼吸等待着去观看尤塞恩 博尔特，史上跑得最快的人；如同闪光灯闪动时一样的世界上最快的九个人在各自的跑道上做好准备。我想让你们假想杰西.欧文正在这个赛场上，现在闭上眼睛一秒钟并且构画一下这场比赛。砰，发令枪响了。一个美国短跑运动员率先领先。尤塞恩 博尔特开始赶上他，尤塞恩 博尔特超过了他，当每个运动员完成的时候，你将听到每个人跨越终点线的哔哔声。（哔哔)这就是整个比赛的结束。现在你可以睁开眼睛了，第一名是尤塞恩 博尔特。最后一名是杰西 欧文。再听一下，（哔哔）当你考虑的时候，这并没有大的区别，不是吗？接下来想一下尤塞恩 博尔特从一个支架助推自己出发支架下有着特殊的弹性地毯目的是为了让他在一瞬间跑出人类最高速。可是杰西.欧文，在焚烧过的木头产生的煤渣上跑步，在他跑步时，柔软的地面会从他腿上偷走更多的能量。谈到起跑支点，杰西 欧文有一把园丁铲他过去经常用来在煤渣跑道挖洞以支撑支架。从生物力学上来讲，杰西.欧文关节的速度显示他和尤塞恩 博尔特跑过了一样多的路程。他本不应该落后14英尺，他应该已经往前一大步。相对于最后一名而言，杰西.欧文本应该得到第二名。现在再听一下。（哔哔）这就是不同的跑道表面科技所造成的不同，这种差异遍及整个田径世界。
en:In 1936, Jesse Owensheld the world record in the 100 meters.Had Jesse Owens been racing last yearin the world championships of the 100 meters,when Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt finished,Owens would have still had 14 feet to go.That&#39;s a lot in sprinter land.To give you a sense of how much it is,I want to share with you a demonstrationconceived by sports scientist Ross Tucker.Now picture the stadium last yearat the world championships of the 100 meters:thousands of fans waiting with baited breathto see Usain Bolt, the fastest man in history;flashbulbs popping as thenine fastest men in the worldcoil themselves into their blocks.And I want you to pretendthat Jesse Owens is in that race.Now close your eyes for asecond and picture the race.Bang! The gun goes off.An American sprinter jumps out to the front.Usain Bolt starts to catch him.Usain Bolt passes him, and asthe runners come to the finish,you&#39;ll hear a beep as each man crosses the line.(Beeps)That&#39;s the entire finish of the race.You can open your eyes now.That first beep was Usain Bolt.That last beep was Jesse Owens.Listen to it again.(Beeps)When you think of it like that,it&#39;s not that big a difference, is it?And then consider that Usain Bolt startedby propelling himself out of blocksdown a specially fabricated carpetdesigned to allow him to travelas fast as humanly possible.Jesse Owens, on the other hand,ran on cinders, the ash from burnt wood,and that soft surface stole far more energyfrom his legs as he ran.Rather than blocks, JesseOwens had a gardening trowelthat he had to use to dig holesin the cinders to start from.Biomechanical analysis of the speedof Owens&#39; joints shows that had been runningon the same surface as Bolt,he wouldn&#39;t have been 14 feet behind,he would have been within one stride.Rather than the last beep,Owens would have been the second beep.Listen to it again.(Beeps)That&#39;s the difference tracksurface technology has made,and it&#39;s done it throughout the running world.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:想想一件更久远的事。在1945年，罗杰.本尼斯特阁下成为了第一个在四分钟内跑完一英里的人。现在大学学生每年都这样做。在极少的偶然下，高中生也可以做到。在去年年末，1314人在四分钟内跑完了一英里，但就像杰西.欧文一样，罗杰.本尼斯特阁下在柔软的煤渣上跑步，这从他腿上偷去的能量要多于今日的塑胶跑道所偷走的。所以我请求生物力学专家找出在煤渣上跑步要比塑胶跑道多耗费多少能量，他们的一致意见是会慢一点五个百分点。所以如果你假设每个人在人工跑道跑四英里的时候会有百分之一点五的速度变化，这就是真相。只剩下530人了。如果你从这个角度来看，从罗杰.本尼斯特阁下开始，每年只有不到10个人加入这个四分钟跑完一英里的行列。530人当然是远远多于一个人的，部分原因在于现代更多的人可以接受训练并且训练方法更加科学合理。比较于罗杰.本尼斯特阁下，在医药学校学习妇科医学时一次训练45分钟，甚至连大学生都要比他训练得更加专业。有一个用了三个半小时赢得1904年的马拉松冠军的人，他在沿着跑道跑步时，正在引用老鼠药和白兰地。这就是他关于兴奋剂的概念。（笑声）
en:Consider a longer event.In 1954, Sir Roger Bannisterbecame the first man to rununder four minutes in the mile.Nowadays, college kids do that every year.On rare occasions, a high school kid does it.As of the end of last year,1,314 menhad run under four minutes in the mile,but like Jesse Owens,Sir Roger Bannister ran on soft cindersthat stole far more energy from his legsthan the synthetic tracks of today.So I consulted biomechanics expertsto find out how much slower it is to run on cindersthan synthetic tracks,and their consensus that it&#39;sone and a half percent slower.So if you apply a one and a halfpercent slowdown conversionto every man who ran his sub-four mileon a synthetic track,this is what happens.Only 530 are left.If you look at it from that perspective,fewer than ten new men per [year]have joined the sub-four mile clubsince Sir Roger Bannister.Now, 530 is a lot more than one,and that&#39;s partly becausethere are many more peopletraining today and they&#39;re training more intelligently.Even college kids are professional in their trainingcompared to Sir Roger Bannister,who trained for 45 minutes at a timewhile he ditched gynecology lectures in med school.And that guy who won the 1904 Olympic marathonin three in a half hours,that guy was drinking rat poison and brandywhile he ran along the course.That was his idea of a performance-enhancing drug.(Laughter)
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:清晰可见的是，运动员们也已经得到了更多关于兴奋剂的知识。这有时会使一些运动产生不同，但是科技已经在所有运动上造就了不同，从更快的滑雪板到更轻的鞋子。让我们来看一下100米自由泳的记录。这些记录总是趋向于下降，但总会被一些陡峭的“斜坡”打断。第一个陡坡，是在1956年，翻转式跳水的普及。相比于停下来再转身，运动员们可以翻转入水并且在相反的方向立刻前进。第二个陡坡，是游泳池边排水沟的普及，这允许水随意溅出，而不是变成在比赛时阻碍运动员的涡流。最后一个陡坡，是全身式低摩擦力泳衣的普及。
en:Clearly, athletes have gotten more savvyabout performance-enhancing drugs as well,and that&#39;s made a differencein some sports at some times,but technology has made a difference in all sports,from faster skis to lighter shoes.Take a look at the record forthe 100-meter freestyle swim.The record is always trending downward,but it&#39;s punctuated by these steep cliffs.This first cliff, in 1956, is the introductionof the flip turn.Rather than stopping and turning around,athletes could somersault under the waterand get going right away in the opposite direction.This second cliff, the introduction of gutterson the side of the poolthat allows water to splash off,rather than becoming turbulencethat impedes the swimmers as they race.This final cliff,the introduction of full-bodyand low-friction swimsuits.
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:纵观运动史，科技已经改变了其面貌。在1972年， 埃迪.麦克莱斯打破了一小时骑行最长距离的记录，1小时骑行30英里，3774英尺。现在这个记录随着自行车对于空气动力学的发展一直在提升。自始至终直到1996年，记录是35英里，1531英尺，将近比埃迪 麦克莱斯在1972年取得的成绩多了5英里。但是接下来在2000年，国际自行车协会颁布条例：任何想要打破记录的人都需要使用相同的基础设备，就像埃迪.麦克莱斯在1972年使用的一样。今天的世界记录呢？30英里，4657英尺，整整比40年前埃迪 麦克莱斯的记录多出883英尺。基本上来说，在世界纪录上取得的所有进步都是因为科技。
en:Throughout sports, technology haschanged the face of performance.In 1972, Eddy Merckx set the recordfor the longest distance cycled in one hourat 30 miles, 3,774 feet.Now that record improved and improvedas bicycles improved and became more aerodynamicall the way until 1996,when it was set at 35 miles, 1,531 feet,nearly five miles fartherthan Eddy Merckx cycled in 1972.But then in 2000, the International Cycling Uniondecreed that anyone who wanted to hold that recordhad to do so with essentially the same equipmentthat Eddy Merckx used in 1972.Where does the record stand today?30 miles, 4,657 feet,a grand total of 883 feetfarther than Eddy Merckx cycledmore than four decades ago.Essentially the entire improvement in this recordwas due to technology.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:但科技仍然不是推动运动进步的唯一因素。我们确实没有在一个世纪内进化成一个新物种，但竞技运动内的基因库大部分确实已经改变了。在20世纪上半叶，体育教师和教练都认为匀称的体型对于所有运动来说是最好的；中等身高，中等体重，无论什么运动。这体现在运动员的身体上。在20世纪20年代，跳高运动员的平均身高和铅球运动员是一样的。但是这种见解逐渐消失了，在运动学家和教练们了解到比起平均的身形，你更需要高度专业的体型来吻合特定运动的框架，一份特定选项的标准出现了，一份为适合特定运动的体型排序，运动员的体型就变得和其他运动员更加不同了。在今天，相比于同样规格的跳高运动员的平均体型，铅球运动员的平均体型要高二点五英寸并且重130磅。这在整个运动界都是存在的。
en:Still, technology isn&#39;t the onlything pushing athletes forward.While indeed we haven&#39;t evolvedinto a new species in a century,the gene pool within competitive sportsmost certainly has changed.In the early half of the 20th century,physical education instructors and coacheshad the idea that the average body typewas the best for all athletic endeavors:medium height, medium weight, no matter the sport.And this showed in athletes&#39; bodies.In the 1920s, the average elite high-jumperand average elite shot-putterwere the same exact size.But as that idea started to fade away,as sports scientists and coaches realized thatrather than the average body type,you want highly specialized bodiesthat fit into certain athletic niches,a form of artificial selection took place,a self-sorting for bodies that fit certain sports,and athletes&#39; bodies becamemore different from one another.Today, rather than the same sizeas the average elite high jumper,the average elite shot-putteris two and a half inches tallerand 130 pounds heavier.And this happened throughout the sports world.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:事实上，如果你标出一个高度和重量的坐标也就是24种运动对应一个点的数据在20世纪上半叶，看起来就像这样。非常稀疏，但这近乎于聚合在平均体型周围。之后这种见解逐渐消失，与此同时，数字科技—首先是收音机，然后是电视和网络—给予百万，甚至十余亿人一张“票”去观看运动比赛。经济诱因，名誉和荣誉使得运动员突飞猛进，并且在运动中制造了一个微小的上升梯队。它加速了对于特定体型的人工选择。如果为24种相似的运动假设一个数据点，看起来像这样。运动员的体型已经变得与其他种类的运动员们非常不同。因为这个图表看起来很像另外一个图表，那个图标显示了扩张的宇宙，和行星从另外的行星飞出，发现这个现象的科学家叫它“体型种类大爆炸。”
en:In fact, if you plot on a height versus mass graphone data point for each of two dozen sportsin the first half of the 20th century, it looks like this.There&#39;s some dispersal,but it&#39;s kind of groupedaround that average body type.Then that idea started to go away,and at the same time, digital technology —first radio, then television and the Internet —gave millions, or in some cases billions, of peoplea ticket to consume elite sports performance.The financial incentives and fame and gloryafforded elite athletes skyrocketed,and it tipped toward the tinyupper echelon of performance.It accelerated the artificialselection for specialized bodies.And if you plot a data point for these sametwo dozen sports today, it looks like this.The athletes&#39; bodies have gottenmuch more different from one another.And because this chart looks like the chartsthat show the expanding universe,with the galaxies flying away from one another,the scientists who discovered it call it&quot;The Big Bang of Body Types.&quot;
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:在强调身高的运动里，例如篮球，很高的运动员变得更高。在1983年，国家篮球协会签署了一个突破性的文件，使得运动员在联盟里合伙，称作门票所得和电视合约的分享。突然，任何有潜力当球员的人都想进入NBA，球队开始走遍世界去寻找可以帮他们赢得冠军的球员。几乎一夜之间，NBA的人员比例中七英尺身高的人翻了两倍直到百分之十。今天，NBA里十个人中就有一个人至少七英尺高，但是一个七英尺高的人在普遍人口中是不可思议地稀少 —稀少到以至于如果你认识一个美国人年龄在20岁到40岁身高至少七英尺，那么有百分之17的几率他就在NBA里。（笑声）所以如果有六个刚好身高七英尺的人，其中一个现在就在NBA。并不仅仅是NBA球员体型特别。这是莱昂纳多.达芬奇的“维特鲁威人，”黄金比例，臂展等于身高。我的臂展确实等同于身高。你们的或许也一样。但这不是NBA球员的平均数据。NBA球员的平均数据是六英尺七英寸高，臂展七英尺长。他们不仅难以置信地高，他们还极端地”长“。如果莱昂纳多达芬奇想要画维特鲁威NBA球员的话，他将需要一个矩形和一个椭圆形，而不是一个圆形和一个正方形。
en:In sports where height is prized, like basketball,the tall athletes got taller.In 1983, the National Basketball Associationsigned a groundbreaking agreementmaking players partners in the league,entitled to shares of ticket revenuesand television contracts.Suddenly, anybody who could be an NBA playerwanted to be,and teams started scouring the globefor the bodies that couldhelp them win championships.Almost overnight,the proportion of men in the NBAwho are at least seven feet tall doubledto 10 percent.Today, one in 10 men in the NBAis at least seven feet tall,but a seven-foot-tall man is incredibly rarein the general population —so rare that if you know an American manbetween the ages of 20 and 40who is at least seven feet tall,there&#39;s a 17 percent chancehe&#39;s in the NBA right now.(Laughter)That is, find six honest seven footers,one is in the NBA right now.And that&#39;s not the only way thatNBA players&#39; bodies are unique.This is Leonardo da Vinci&#39;s &quot;Vitruvian Man,&quot;the ideal proportions,with arm span equal to height.My arm span is exactly equal to my height.Yours is probably very nearly so.But not the average NBA player.The average NBA player is a shade under 6&#39;7&quot;,with arms that are seven feet long.Not only are NBA players ridiculously tall,they are ludicrously long.Had Leonardo wanted to drawthe Vitruvian NBA Player,he would have needed a rectangle and an ellipse,not a circle and a square.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:所以在巨大体格占优势的运动中，”巨大“的运动员变得越来越”巨大“。相反的是，在微小身材占优势的运动中，很矮的运动员们变得更矮了。女子体操的平均数据在过去30年中，从5英尺3英寸缩小到了四英尺九英寸，这样有益于他们的能量-体重比率和在空气中旋转。在大的更大和小的更小的同时，奇怪的变得更奇怪。游泳运动员的平均前臂长度相对于他们的整个手臂变得更长了，这有益于强有力的滑动。在大的更大的同时，小的更小，奇怪的更奇怪。在游泳中，理想体型是修长的躯干和短腿。就像独木舟的修长船身一样是为了水中的速度。同时把这反过来就在跑步中占优势。你需要修长的腿和短的躯干。这展示了现在运动员的体型。这里你看到迈克.菲尔普斯，历史上最伟大的游泳运动员，就站在希查姆.艾尔.奎罗伊的旁边，一英里世界纪录的保持者。这些人在身高上有七英寸的差距，但是由于在他们运动内的优势体型，他们都穿着一样长的裤子。七英寸的身高差距，这些人有一样长的腿。
en:So in sports where large size is prized,the large athletes have gotten larger.Conversely, in sports wherediminutive stature is an advantage,the small athletes got smaller.The average elite female gymnastshrunk from 5&#39;3&quot; to 4&#39;9&quot; on averageover the last 30 years,all the better for their power-to-weight ratioand for spinning in the air.And while the large got largerand the small got smaller,the weird got weirder.The average length of the forearmof a water polo player in relationto their total arm got longer,all the better for a forceful throwing whip.And as the large got larger,small got smaller, and the weird weirder.In swimming, the ideal body typeis a long torso and short legs.It&#39;s like the long hull of a canoefor speed over the water.And the opposite is advantageous in running.You want long legs and a short torso.And this shows in athletes&#39; bodies today.Here you see Michael Phelps,the greatest swimmer in history,standing next to Hicham El Guerrouj,the world record holder in the mile.These men are seven inches different in height,but because of the body typesadvantaged in their sports,they wear the same length pants.Seven inches difference in height,these men have the same length legs.
时间：10:36
zh-cn:现在在一些事例里，对于可以推进运动的体型的搜索告终于竞争世界人口中之前从来没有受过训练的人的推广，就像肯尼亚长跑运动员。我们认为肯尼亚人是好的马拉松选手。肯尼亚人认为卡伦津部落是好的马拉松选手。卡伦津仅仅占据肯尼亚百分之十二的人口但却有着大多数的长跑运动员。他们在平均体型上，都有着非常独特的生理特征：极端长和瘦的腿，这是因为他们的祖先生活在很低的纬度，和非常燥热的气候下，和一种进化性的适应：以降温为目的的极端长和瘦的腿。这与散热器有很长的线圈去增加相对于体积的表面积而使热量散出是同样的原因，因为腿就像一个钟摆，更长和更细，摇摆就有更多的能量效率。把卡伦津在长跑上的成功放远一点，考虑一下历史下十七个在两小时十分钟内完成马拉松的美国人。他们的速度是四分五十八秒一英里。三十二个卡伦津人去年十月做到了这一点。（笑声）这来自一个关于大都会亚特兰大的人口数量资料。
en:Now in some cases, the search for bodiesthat could push athletic performance forwardended up introducing into the competitive worldpopulations of people that weren&#39;tpreviously competing at all,like Kenyan distance runners.We think of Kenyans as being great marathoners.Kenyans think of the Kalenjin tribeas being great marathoners.The Kalenjin make up just 12 percentof the Kenyan populationbut the vast majority of elite runners.And they happen, on average,to have a certain unique physiology:legs that are very longand very thin at their extremity,and this is because they have their ancestryat very low latitudein a very hot and dry climate,and an evolutionary adaptation to thatis limbs that are very longand very thin at the extremityfor cooling purposes.It&#39;s the same reason that a radiator has long coils,to increase surface area compared to volumeto let heat out,and because the leg is like a pendulum,the longer and thinner it is at the extremity,the more energy-efficient it is to swing.To put Kalenjin running success in perspective,consider that 17 American men in historyhave run faster than two hours and 10 minutesin the marathon.That&#39;s a four-minute-and-58-second-per-mile pace.Thirty-two Kalenjin men did that last October.(Laughter)That&#39;s from a source population the sizeof metropolitan Atlanta.
时间：11:55
zh-cn:甚至科技的改变和基因池的改变在运动的改变中依然不是全部的因素。运动员们会有与前一次不同的心态。你看过一个人被电击并被弹过整个房间里的电影吗？没有爆炸。当电力的脉动促使他们的肌肉纤维颤动到两倍，他们会自己把自己弹出去。本质上而言他们是在跳跃。这就是人类体内所蕴含的能量。但是通常而言我们不能全部全部。我们的大脑如同一个限制器一般，阻止我们动用全部的生理能量，因为我们或许会伤到自己，撕裂肌腱或者韧带。但是我们对于这个限制器如何运行知道得越多，我们就对如何把它逆转一点知道得越多，例如通过以身体不会受伤来说服大脑达到逆转更多的目的。持续性运动和长时间持续性运动在这里作为例子。长时间持续性运动曾被认为会对人的健康造成伤害，但是现在我们意识到我们有这些可以完美适应长时间持续性运动的特征：没有体毛和众多的汗腺在跑步时保持降温；纤细的腰和长腿作为我们的结构；更大的关节表面积为了吸收震动。我们的脚上有一个类似于弹簧的拱，短的脚趾对于抓住树干而言更适合蹬出，并且在我们奔跑时，我们可以转动我们的身体和肩膀如同保持头部向前一样。我们的灵长类表亲们不能做到。他们需要像这样奔跑。而且我们有着大块的臀部肌肉在奔跑时让我们保持笔直向前。你曾经看过一只古猿的臀部吗？他们没有臀丘因为他们不是笔直向前奔跑。当运动员们理解到我们完美适应长时间持续性运动，他们展示出在以前不可思议的技巧，就如同西班牙长跑运动员克里安.琼尼特。这里是克里安.琼尼特在马拉松比赛上。（笑声）在他腰上缠着一条运动衫。这里非常陡峭，他甚至不能到达。他正在拉起一根绳子。这里垂直上升超过8000英尺，克里安在三小时之内从上到下。令人惊奇。尽管他是如此地天资出众，克里安并不是一个生理上的怪胎。现在他做到了，其他运动员也跟随着，就像其他运动员跟随在罗杰.本尼斯特之后在四分钟内跑完一英里。
en:Still, even changing technologyand the changing gene pool in sportsdon&#39;t account for all of the changes in performance.Athletes have a different mindset than they once did.Have you ever seen in a movie when someone getsan electrical shockand they&#39;re thrown across a room?There&#39;s no explosion there.What&#39;s happening when that happens is thatthe electrical impulse is causingall their muscle fibers to twitch at once,and they&#39;re throwing themselves across the room.They&#39;re essentially jumping.That&#39;s the powerthat&#39;s contained in the human body.But normally we can&#39;t access nearly all of it.Our brain acts as a limiter,preventing us from accessingall of our physical resources,because we might hurt ourselves,tearing tendons or ligaments.But the more we learn abouthow that limiter functions,the more we learn how we can push it backjust a bit,in some cases by convincing the brainthat the body won&#39;t be in mortal dangerby pushing harder.Endurance and ultra-endurance sportsserve as a great example.Ultra-endurance was once thought to be harmfulto human health,but now we realizethat we have all these traitsthat are perfect for ultra-endurance:no body fur and a glut of sweat glandsthat keep us cool while running;narrow waists and long legs compared to our frames;large surface area of joints for shock absorption.We have an arch in our foot that acts like a spring,short toes that are better for pushing offthan for grasping tree limbs,and when we run,we can turn our torso and our shoulderslike this while keeping our heads straight.Our primate cousins can&#39;t do that.They have to run like this.And we have big old butt musclesthat keep us upright while running.Have you ever looked at an ape&#39;s butt?They have no buns because they don&#39;t run upright.And as athletes have realizedthat we&#39;re perfectly suited for ultra-endurance,they&#39;ve taken on featsthat would have been unthinkable before,athletes like Spanish endurance racer Kílian Jornet.Here&#39;s Kílian running up the Matterhorn.(Laughter)With a sweatshirt there tied around his waist.It&#39;s so steep he can&#39;t even run here.He&#39;s pulling up on a rope.This is a vertical ascentof more than 8,000 feet,and Kílian went up and downin under three hours.Amazing.And talented though he is,Kílian is not a physiological freak.Now that he has done this,other athletes will follow,just as other athletes followedafter Sir Roger Bannisterran under four minutes in the mile.
时间：14:15
zh-cn:变化的科技，变化的基因，以及变化的精神状态。运动上的改革，无论是新的跑道表面或是新的游泳科技，运动的民主化，对于新体型和新的人口在世界上的传播，运动中的展望，对于人体极限的理解，对使运动员比以往更强，更快，更无畏，甚至更好的策划。
en:Changing technology, changing genes,and a changing mindset.Innovation in sports,whether that&#39;s new track surfacesor new swimming techniques,the democratization of sport,the spread to new bodiesand to new populations around the world,and imagination in sport,an understanding of what the human bodyis truly capable of,have conspired to make athletes stronger,faster, bolder,and better than ever.
时间：14:41
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：14:43
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
