时间： 0:14
zh-cn:50年以前在前苏联一队工程师秘密移动一个庞大的物体（火箭）通过荒原。利用这个物体（火箭），第一次征服外太空他们希望能够引起世界各地人们的关注。火箭非常庞大在火箭的顶端搭载了一个银球银球中有两台无线电。
en:Fifty years ago in the old Soviet Union,a team of engineers was secretly moving a large objectthrough a desolate countryside.With it, they were hoping to capture the minds of people everywhereby being the first to conquer outer space.The rocket was huge.And packed in its nose was a silver ballwith two radios inside.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:1957年10月4日他们发射了火箭那时其中的某位俄罗斯科学家写道：“我们将会创造一个新的行球并将其命名为“Sputnik” （苏联人造卫星）在过去的日子里，探险者们如瓦斯科.达伽马和哥伦布都曾经有幸开拓了地球而现在我们将有幸开拓宇宙空间。未来的人们将会羡慕我们的成就。”
en:On October 4, 1957, they launched their rocket.One of the Russian scientists wrote at the time:&quot;We are about to create a new planetthat we will call Sputnik.In the olden days, explorerslike Vasco da Gama and Columbushad the good fortune to open up the terrestrial globe.Now we have the good fortune to open up space.And it is for those in the future to envy us our joy.&quot;
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:您正在观看的是来自电影“人造卫星”的片段这是我刚完成的第五部纪录长片它讲述了苏联人造卫星的故事以及它对美国所带来的影响在人造卫星发射之后的一段时间里苏联人造卫星成为了关注的焦点。人造月亮在星空中肉眼可见它激发了敬畏和骄傲人类终于能够将物体发射到太空中了。
en:You&#39;re watching snippets from &quot;Sputnik,&quot; my fifth documentary feature,which is just about completed.It tells the story of Sputnik,and the story of what happened to America as a result.For days after the launch,Sputnik was a wonderful curiosity.A man-made moon visible by ordinary citizens,it inspired awe and pridethat humans had finally launched an object into space.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:但是仅仅三天之后，这天他们称为红色星期一媒体和政治家们告诉我们人造卫星证明了我们的敌人在科技上超越了我们并且他们能够将人造卫星用作IBM (洲际导弹)利用将人造卫星运载火箭作为IBM（ICBM洲际导弹）。
en:But just three days later, on a day they called Red Monday,the media and the politicians told us,and we believed, that Sputnik was proofthat our enemy had beaten usin science and technology,and that they could now attack us with hydrogen bombs,using their Sputnik rocket as an IBM missile.
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:所有的一切变得一团糟。苏联人造卫星很快成为冲击美国的三个震惊之一历史学家称它可与珍珠港或9/11事件相提并论它引出了美苏两国导弹力量差距(missile gap)的观点。并因此引发了两国之间的军备竞赛。从此太空竞赛拉开帷幕。一年之内，国会大幅度提高了军事预算我们将核武器数量从1200枚大幅度地提高到了2万枚。人造卫星的影响不仅仅在武器数量增长上。
en:All hell broke loose.Sputnik quickly became one of the three great shocks to hit America —historians say the equal of Pearl Harbor or 9/11.It provoked the missile gap.It exploded an arms race.It began the space race.Within a year, Congress funded huge weapons increases,and we went from 1,200 nuclear weaponsto 20,000.And the reactions to Sputnik went far beyond weapons increases.
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:例如，在座的各位也许记得1958年6月的这一天进行了国家民防演习78个城市的数以千万计居民躲进了地下。或者盖洛普民意调查显示七成美国人相信未来将会发生核战争并且至少我们一半人口将会死于战争。
en:For example, some here will rememberthis day, June 1958,the National Civil Defense Drill,where tens of millions of people in 78 cities went underground.Or the Gallup Poll that showed that seven in 10 Americansbelieved that a nuclear war would happen,and that at least 50 percent of our populationwas going to be killed.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:但是人造卫星同样也引起了令人高兴的变化。例如，在座中也许有人因为人造卫星而获得奖学金进入大学。对工程，数学和科学的支持使教育得到了长足发展并且温顿.瑟夫认为人造卫星直接导致了ARPA(美国国防高级研究计划局)以及互联网和NASA(美国国家航空航天局)的诞生。
en:But Sputnik provoked wonderful changes as well.For example, some in this room went to school on scholarshipbecause of Sputnik.Support for engineering, math and science —education in general — boomed.And Vint Cerf points out that Sputnikled directly to ARPA, and the Internet,and, of course, NASA.
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:我的纪录片将会展示自由的社会是如何被善于利用媒体的人所蛊惑。但它也展示了我们如何从最初认为的坏局面慢慢地转变成为对美国有利的事件的。“人造卫星”将会很快上映
en:My feature documentary shows how a free societycan be stampeded by those who know how to use media.But it also shows how we can turnwhat appears at first to be a bad situation,into something that was overall very good for America.&quot;Sputnik&quot; will soon be released.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:最后，我想利用此机会感谢我们的投资者之一：永远的TEDster,杰.沃克感谢您们的倾听
en:In closing, I would like to take a moment to thankone of my investors:longtime TEDster, Jay Walker.And I&#39;d like to thank you all.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause).
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:谢谢你，克里斯
en:Thank you, Chris.
