时间： 0:12
zh-cn:你的工资是多少？先别说出来。在脑子里想一下。现在想想：你觉得邻座的工资是多少？也别说出来。
en:How much do you get paid?Don&#39;t answer that out loud.But put a number in your head.Now: How much do you think the personsitting next to you gets paid?Again, don&#39;t answer out loud.
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:你觉得办公室里坐在旁边的同事的工资又是多少？你知道吗？你应该知道吗？
en:At work, how much do you thinkthe person sitting in the cubicleor the desk next to you gets paid?Do you know?Should you know?
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:问这些问题连我都觉得不太自在，但是承认吧——你有点想知道答案。我们大多数人都不想告诉别人自己的工资，我们不想把工资告诉邻居，也绝对不想告诉办公室的同事。可能如果大家都知道别人的工资，就要天下大乱了。可能会出现争吵，打架，甚至会有人辞职。但如果这个秘密恰恰就是冲突的起因呢？如果我们揭开这个秘密会发生什么呢？公开薪资能不能增进公司内部的合作，还有公平感呢？如果完全公开薪资信息，那会发生什么呢？
en:Notice, it&#39;s a little uncomfortable for meto even ask you those questions.But admit it — you kind of want to know.Most of us are uncomfortable with the ideaof broadcasting our salary.We&#39;re not supposed to tell our neighbors,and we&#39;re definitely not supposedto tell our office neighbors.The assumed reason is that if everybodyknew what everybody got paid,then all hell would break loose.There&#39;d be arguments, there&#39;d be fights,there might even be a few people who quit.But what if secrecy is actuallythe reason for all that strife?And what would happenif we removed that secrecy?What if openness actually increasedthe sense of fairness and collaborationinside a company?What would happen if we hadtotal pay transparency?
时间： 1:21
zh-cn:过去的几年里，我一直在研究那些质疑传统经营理念的企业家和创业者。而薪资待遇的问题不断浮出水面。答案也在不断挑战传统观念。
en:For the past several years,I&#39;ve been studying the corporateand entrepreneurial leaderswho question the conventional wisdomabout how to run a company.And the question of pay keeps coming up.And the answers keep surprising.
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:结果表明，薪资透明 —在整个公司中公开薪资数据 —会为雇员和雇主营造更好的工作环境。当人们不知道他们同事的工资时，他们总会感觉自己工资太低，甚至受到了歧视。你想在一个你觉得自己的工资太低或者遭到歧视的地方工作吗？对薪资保密恰恰会导致这样的结果，却被长期且普遍的接受，尽管美国法律保护雇员讨论薪资的权利。
en:It turns out that pay transparency —sharing salaries openlyacross a company —makes for a better workplacefor both the employeeand for the organization.When people don&#39;t know how their paycompares to their peers&#39;,they&#39;re more likely to feel underpaidand maybe even discriminated against.Do you want to work at a placethat tolerates the ideathat you feel underpaidor discriminated against?But keeping salaries secretdoes exactly that,and it&#39;s a practiceas old as it is common,despite the factthat in the United States,the law protects an employee&#39;s rightto discuss their pay.
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:几十年前，有一个著名的例子，《名利场》杂志的管理层发布了一条规则：“禁止员工讨论工资。”“禁止”员工讨论工资。不是所有人都接受得了这条规则，纽约文坛人物多乐西·帕克，罗伯特·本克利和罗伯特·舍伍德，三位阿冈昆圆桌会议的作家，决定为薪资透明而战，第二天上班时，他们脖子上挂了个牌子，上面写了自己的工资。
en:In one famous example from decades ago,the management of Vanity Fair magazineactually circulated a memo entitled:&quot;Forbidding Discussion AmongEmployees of Salary Received.&quot;&quot;Forbidding&quot; discussion amongemployees of salary received.Now that memo didn&#39;t sit wellwith everybody.New York literary figuresDorothy Parker,Robert Benchley and Robert Sherwood,all writers in the Algonquin Round Table,decided to stand up for transparencyand showed up for work the next daywith their salary written on signshanging from their neck.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:想象一下你去上班时，胸前挂着工资牌，谁都能看到。
en:Imagine showing up for workwith your salary just writtenacross your chest for all to see.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:但是为什么公司会反对讨论薪资呢？为什么一些人服从，而另一些人反对呢？除了之前猜测的理由之外，对薪资保密还是省钱的良方。想想看，工资不透明会导致经济学家所说的“信息不对称”。在这种情况下谈判的双方，一方比另一方掌握更多的信息。在招聘、升职、加薪的讨论中，雇主就可以用这个秘密省很多钱。想象一下，知道每个人的工资，对你的加薪谈判多么有利。
en:But why would a company even wantto discourage salary discussions?Why do some people go along with it,while others revolt against it?It turns out that in additionto the assumed reasons,pay secrecy is actually a wayto save a lot of money.You see, keeping salaries secretleads to what economists call&quot;information asymmetry.&quot;This is a situation where,in a negotiation,one party has loads moreinformation than the other.And in hiring or promotionor annual raise discussions,an employer can use that secrecyto save a lot of money.Imagine how much betteryou could negotiate for a raiseif you knew everybody&#39;s salary.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:经济学家提醒道：信息不对称会导致市场偏离正轨。如果有人在复印时不小心遗留了一张工资表，很快大家就会彼此争论起来。事实上，经济学家甚至还提醒，信息不对称可能导致市场失调。我认为我们正处在这个边缘，原因就在于：首先，大部分雇员不清楚自己与同事的工资存在多少差异。在2015年进行的一项覆盖7万名雇员的调查中，三分之二的调查者认为他们被压低了薪水，虽然他们拿到的都是基于市场正常水平支付的工资。这些认为被压低工资的人，有60%说他们想要辞职，不管他们的实际工资是过低还是过高，还是恰好在正常水平。如果你参与这个调查，你会怎么说？你被压低工资了吗？等一下，既然都不允许谈论工资，你又怎么知道是被压低了？
en:Economists warn that information asymmetrycan cause markets to go awry.Someone leaves a pay stub on the copier,and suddenly everybodyis shouting at each other.In fact, they even warnthat information asymmetrycan lead to a total market failure.And I think we&#39;re almost there.Here&#39;s why:first, most employees have no ideahow their pay compares to their peers&#39;.In a 2015 survey of 70,000 employees,two-thirds of everyone who is paidat the market ratesaid that they felt they were underpaid.And of everybody who feltthat they were underpaid,60 percent saidthat they intended to quit,regardless of where they were —underpaid, overpaidor right at the market rate.If you were part of this survey,what would you say?Are you underpaid?Well, wait — how do you even know,because you&#39;re not allowedto talk about it?
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:其次，信息不对称，薪资保密，会让市场中现实存在的歧视更容易被忽视。妇女政策研究协会在2011年发布的一份报告显示，男性和女性的工资差距高达23%。这就是“1美元中的77美分”（职场女性的薪酬是男性同事的77%）的来历。但在联邦政府部门，薪资是有固定标准的，每个雇员都清楚这个标准，那里的性别薪资差距就只有11% —这还是在实施经济学家呼吁的控制措施之前的数据。
en:Next, information asymmetry, pay secrecy,makes it easier to ignorethe discriminationthat&#39;s already presentin the market today.In a 2011 report from the Institutefor Women&#39;s Policy Research,the gender wage gapbetween men and womenwas 23 percent.This is where that 77 centson the dollar comes from.But in the Federal Government,where salaries are pinnedto certain levelsand everybody knowswhat those levels are,the gender wage gapshrinks to 11 percent —and this is before controllingfor any of the factorsthat economists argue overwhether or not to control for.
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:如果我们真的想消除性别薪资差距，可能需要从公开工资单开始。如果市场失灵就是这个样子，那公开透明仍是保证公平的唯一方法。
en:If we really want to closethe gender wage gap,maybe we should startby opening up the payroll.If this is what totalmarket failure looks like,then openness remainsthe only way to ensure fairness.
时间： 5:11
zh-cn:我知道公开收入，可能让人不舒服，但总是怀疑自己被歧视，或者家里的女性被不公平的压低薪水不是更让人郁闷吗？公开是保证公平的最好手段，薪资透明就是一种。
en:Now, I realize that letting peopleknow what you makemight feel uncomfortable,but isn&#39;t it less uncomfortablethan always wonderingif you&#39;re being discriminated against,or if your wife or your daughteror your sister is being paid unfairly?Openness remains the best wayto ensure fairness,and pay transparency does that.
时间： 5:30
zh-cn:这就是这些年企业家和创业者们尝试公开薪资的原因，比如戴恩·阿特金森。戴恩是位连续创业者，他在创建前几个公司时使用了薪资保密制度，甚至会给两个能力相同的员工支付截然不同的薪水，仅仅因为他们谈薪水的能力不同。戴恩发现这导致了冲突。所以当他创办新公司 SumAll 时，他从一开始就实施了透明薪资制度。然而效果出乎意料的好。在一个个的研究中，当人们知道他们的收入和同事相比处于什么水平，他们会加倍努力工作，提高绩效，更容易被动员，更不容易辞职。
en:That&#39;s why entrepreneurial leadersand corporate leadershave been experimentingwith sharing salaries for years.Like Dane Atkinson.Dane is a serial entrepreneurwho started many companiesin a pay secrecy conditionand even used that conditionto pay two equally qualified peopledramatically different salaries,depending on how wellthey could negotiate.And Dane saw the strifethat happened as a result of this.So when he startedhis newest company, SumAll,he committed to salary transparencyfrom the beginning.And the results have been amazing.And in study after study,when people knowhow they&#39;re being paidand how that pay compares to their peers&#39;,they&#39;re more likely to work hardto improve their performance,more likely to be engaged,and they&#39;re less likely to quit.
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:这就是为什么像戴恩一样的人越来越多。从类似 Buffer 的初创科技公司，到 Whole Foods 这样的数万人的大公司，不但大家的薪资都透明化，而且每个分店、每个部门的绩效数据也在公司内网对所有人公开。
en:That&#39;s why Dane&#39;s not alone.From technology start-ups like Buffer,to the tens of thousandsof employees at Whole Foods,where not only is your salaryavailable for everyone to see,but the performance datafor the store and for your departmentis available on the company intranetfor all to see.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:实际上，薪资透明有很多方式，并不是一成不变的。有的公司把薪资向所有人公开。有的只是在公司内部公开，有的公开薪资的计算公式，有的公开他们的薪资级别，并且公开员工对应的级别。所以你不用为每个员工做个工资牌挂在身上。你也不用像三位作家一样自己做个工资牌挂在身上。但我们可以一起努力，推进薪资透明化。如果你有权利在公司里推进工资透明化：现在是你向前迈进的时候了。如果你没有这样的权利，现在就是站起来，争取这个权利的时候。
en:Now, pay transparencytakes a lot of forms.It&#39;s not one size fits all.Some post their salaries for all to see.Some only keep it inside the company.Some post the formula for calculating pay,and others post the pay levelsand affix everybody to that level.So you don&#39;t have to make signsfor all of your employeesto wear around the office.And you don&#39;t have to bethe only one wearing a signthat you made at home.But we can all take greater stepstowards pay transparency.For those of you that have the authorityto move forward towards transparency:it&#39;s time to move forward.And for those of youthat don&#39;t have that authority:it&#39;s time to stand up for your right to.
时间： 7:12
zh-cn:那么，你的工资是多少呢？和你的同事相比怎么样？你应该知道。他们也应该知道。
en:So how much do you get paid?And how does that compareto the people you work with?You should know.And so should they.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
