时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我研究蚂蚁，因为我喜欢去思考组织是如何运作的。特别是组织中的简单个体如何通过互动来创造整体的行为。所以，蚁群是一个很好的例子。还有很多其他的（例子），比如网络。比如许多生物系统 ——像大脑，细胞群，发育中的胚胎（都是很好的例子）。
en:I study ants, and that&#39;s because I like to think about how organizations work.And in particular, how the simple parts of organizationsinteract to create the behavior of the whole organization.So, ant colonies are a good example of an organization like that,and there are many others. The web is one.There are many biological systems like that —brains, cells, developing embryos.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:世上有大约一万种蚂蚁。他们都以蚁群的方式聚居，每个蚁群有一只或者若干只蚁后。所有那些你看到在忙碌的是没有生育能力的雌性工蚁。所有蚁群有一个共同的特点，那就是没有中央控制。没有哪只蚂蚁是被命令去做事的蚁后只负责产卵。蚁群中没有所谓的管理机制。没有蚂蚁指挥其他蚂蚁的行为。所以我试图了解蚁群运作的原理。我在过去的20年都在研究一种生活在亚利桑那州东南部食种子的蚂蚁。
en:There are about 10,000 species of ants.They all live in colonies consisting of one or a few queens,and then all the ants you see walking around are sterile female workers.And all ant colonies have in common that there&#39;s no central control.Nobody tells anybody what to do.The queen just lays the eggs. There&#39;s no management.No ant directs the behavior of any other ant.And I try to figure out how that works.And I&#39;ve been working for the past 20 yearson a population of seed-eating ants in southeastern Arizona.
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:这是我的研究地点，照片上满是蚂蚁，这只兔子只是凑巧在那儿罢了。这些蚂蚁被称作收获蚁因为它们吃植物的种子为生。这是成熟蚁群的巢穴，那是蚁穴的入口他们可能会去20米以外的地方觅食收集种子，并把种子带回蚁穴加以储存。每年我去我的研究地点，都会画张蚁群的分布图。这（副图）是一条路，这地方并不大，一边大约250米，另一边是400米。我给每个蚁群都标了号，并把号码标记在石头上。我每年都会过去寻找前一年生存的蚁群看看哪些已经死了，并把新的蚁群在分布图上标记出来。这样做我就知道它们各自的年龄。也就是因为这样，随着当蚁群越来越成熟，越来越壮大，我可以研究它们行为的变化。
en:Here&#39;s my study site. This is really a picture of ants,and the rabbit just happens to be there.And these ants are called harvester ants because they eat seeds.This is the nest of the mature colony, and there&#39;s the nest entrance.And they forage maybe for about 20 meters away,gather up the seeds and bring them back to the nest, and store them.And every year I go there and make a map of my study site.This is just a road. And it&#39;s not very big:it&#39;s about 250 meters on one side, 400 on the other.And every colony has a name, which is a number,which is painted on a rock. And I go there every yearand look for all the colonies that were alive the year before,and figure out which ones have died, and put all the new ones on the map.And by doing this I know how old they all are.And because of that, I&#39;ve been able to study how their behavior changesas the colony gets older and larger.
时间： 2:08
zh-cn:（首先）我想告诉你们蚁群的生命周期。蚂蚁是不能生更多的蚂蚁的，蚁群却会变多。每年每个蚁群都会派出可繁殖的蚂蚁——这些蚂蚁有翅膀——进行婚飞。所以每年，并在同一天——很神奇每年都是这同一天——每个蚁群都会派出有翅膀的没有交配过的蚁后，还有雄蚁，它们飞到一个共同的地方交配。这是一只刚开始交配的蚁后。那是它的翅膀。它正在和这只雄蚁交配，还有一只雄蚁在上面排队。通常蚁后交配不止一次，交配之后雄蚁就死了。竟落得如此下场。
en:So I want to tell you about the life cycle of a colony.Ants never make more ants; colonies make more colonies.And they do that by each year sending out the reproductives —those are the ones with wings — on a mating flight.So every year, on the same day — and it&#39;s a mystery exactly how that happens —each colony sends out its virgin, unmated queens with wings, and the males,and they all fly to a common place. And they mate.And this shows a recently virgin queen. Here&#39;s her wings.And she&#39;s in the process of mating with this male,and there&#39;s another male on top waiting his turn.Often the queens mate more than once.And after that, the males all die. That&#39;s it for them.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:笑
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:然后刚交配的蚁后飞到某个地方，脱下它们的翅膀挖一个洞，进入洞中产卵。它们会在里面生存15或20年，不停地利用那次交配得到的精子产卵。蚁后就这样在洞穴深处生存着，它产卵，给幼蚁喂食——蚂蚁开始是卵，然后成为幼蚁它把身体储存的脂肪反刍出来给幼蚁喂食。渐渐地，第一窝蚂蚁就出现了他们是幼蚁，接着成了蛹，接着长成了成蚁。然后他们出洞，觅食，再把巢穴挖大。但蚁后永远待在洞中不出来了。
en:And then the newly mated queens fly off somewhere, drop their wings,dig a hole and go into that hole and start laying eggs.And they will live for 15 or 20 years, continuing to lay eggsusing the sperm from that original mating.So the queen goes down in there.She lays eggs, she feeds the larvae — so an ant starts as an egg, then it&#39;s a larva.She feeds the larvae by regurgitating from her fat reserves.Then, as soon as the ants — the first group of ants — emerge,they&#39;re larvae. Then they&#39;re pupae. Then they come out as adult ants.They go out, they get the food, they dig the nest,and the queen never comes out again.
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:这是一岁大的蚁穴，536号那是蚁穴的入口，那是笔，作为比例尺。这是一只蚁后在去年夏天建的蚁群。这是三岁大的蚁群，那是蚁穴的入口，那是笔，作为比例尺。那些蚂蚁制造了一大堆垃圾—-大多是吃种子留下的壳。这是五岁大的蚁群。这是蚁穴的入口，那是笔，作为比例尺。这是最大的蚁穴，入口大约一米宽。这（张图）显示了蚁群的规模和工蚁数量的变化规律——这是大约一万个工蚁——在几年内，随着蚁群生存年龄的变化而变化。一开始没有蚂蚁，只是蚁后五年后，这个蚁群就壮大到1万或1万2千的蚂蚁。并且这个数量能保持到蚁后死亡，也就是当蚁后达到15或20岁的时候，当它没办法繁殖出更多的蚂蚁了。就在蚂蚁的数量稳定下来的时候（大约5岁）。蚂蚁就会再开始繁殖，也就是派更多的有翅膀的蚁后和雄蚁去交配。我之所以知道蚁群规模随着生存年龄增长的变化规律，是因为我挖开了我知道生存时间的蚁群，并一只只数了蚂蚁。虽然这很有趣，但并不是研究过程中最好玩的
en:So this is a one-year-old colony — this happens to be 536.There&#39;s the nest entrance, there&#39;s a pencil for scale.So this is the colony founded by a queen the previous summer.This is a three-year-old colony.There&#39;s the nest entrance, there&#39;s a pencil for scale.They make a midden, a pile of refuse — mostly the husks of the seeds that they eat.This is a five-year-old colony. This is the nest entrance, here&#39;s a pencil for scale.This is about as big as they get, about a meter across.And then this is how colony size and numbers of worker ants changes —so this is about 10,000 worker ants —changes as a function of colony age, in years.So it starts out with zero ants, just the founding queen,and it grows to a size of about 10 or 12 thousand ants when the colony is five.And it stays that size until the queen diesand there&#39;s nobody to make more ants, when she&#39;s about 15 or 20 years old.And it&#39;s when they reach this stable size, in numbers of ants,that they start to reproduce.That is, to send more winged queens and males to that year&#39;s mating flight.And I know how colony size changes as a function of colony agebecause I&#39;ve dug up colonies of known age and counted all the ants. (Laughter)So that&#39;s not the most fun part of this research, although it&#39;s interesting.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:笑
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:在研究蚂蚁过程中我所考虑的真正问题叫做“任务分配”。这不单单是蚁群组织的原理，而是蚁群怎么改变工作内容。蚁群到底是如何根据环境的变化设法调整实施每项工作的工蚁的数量的呢？比如，蚁群总是会遇上变故的，夏天下雨了，雨水淹没了沙漠对蚁穴造成了极大的破坏，就需要更多的蚂蚁收拾残局。而当外面有更多食物时——大家出去野餐时都知道（蚂蚁会来）——也需要派更多的蚂蚁去收集食物。但既然没有哪只蚂蚁被告知去做什么事，那整个蚁群是如何协调完成某项工作的工蚁数量呢？我称这个协调的过程为“任务分配”。
en:Really the question that I think about with these ants is what I call task allocation.That&#39;s not just how is the colony organized,but how does it change what it&#39;s doing?How is it that the colony manages to adjustthe numbers of workers performing each task as conditions change?So, things happen to an ant colony.When it rains in the summer, it floods in the desert.There&#39;s a lot of damage to the nest,and extra ants are needed to clean up that mess.When extra food becomes available —and this is what everybody knows about picnics —then extra ants are allocated to collect the food.So, with nobody telling anybody what to do, how is it thatthe colony manages to adjust the numbers of workers performing each task?And that&#39;s the process that I call task allocation.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:在这些收获蚁中，我把在蚁穴外面看到的蚂蚁的工作分为四类： 这蚂蚁在觅食它走在觅食的路上，寻找食物，将食物搬回巡逻员—-那应该是个放大镜—-是一群有趣的家伙，它们一早就出去了在觅食蚂蚁开始活跃起来之前它们设法为觅食的蚂蚁确定方向，凭着（它们）能回巢——就只凭着（它们）能会得了巢——它们告诉觅食的蚂蚁可以安全外出。负责修理的蚂蚁在蚁穴中工作，我想说的是蚁穴与比尔里斯曼的房子特别相似因为有很多小房间在里面。它们用潮湿的土壤塑起了小房间的墙干了之后就成了类似土坯的东西。蚁穴也很像在那个地区霍皮人居住的洞穴。负责维修的蚂蚁在蚁穴内工作然后背着细碎的干燥土壤爬出蚁穴，所以你可以看到这些蚂蚁出来的时候大颚里带着一些土壤，然后把土壤放下，转身回到蚁穴。最后，负责垃圾的蚂蚁把蚁穴特有的化学物质放入垃圾箱。所以你看到的是这些蚂蚁在堆一堆垃圾，这一天，垃圾还全在，第二天它们就把垃圾搬到别处，然后再搬回来这就是负责垃圾的蚂蚁的工作。这四类只是在蚁穴外工作的蚂蚁这些蚂蚁只占整个蚁群的25%，并且它们是最资深的蚂蚁。
en:And in harvester ants, I divide the tasksof the ants I see just outside the nestinto these four categories: where an ant is foraging,when it&#39;s out along the foraging trail, searching for food or bringing food back.The patrollers — that&#39;s supposed to be a magnifying glass —are an interesting group that go out early in the morningbefore the foragers are active.They somehow choose the direction that the foragers will go,and by coming back — just by making it back —they tell the foragers that it&#39;s safe to go out.Then the nest maintenance workers work inside the nest,and I wanted to say that the nests look a lot like Bill Lishman&#39;s house.That is, that there are chambers inside,they line the walls of the chambers with moist soiland it dries to a kind of an adobe-like surface in it.It also looks very similar to some of the cave dwellingsof the Hopi people that are in that area.And the nest maintenance workers do that inside the nest,and then they come out of the nest carrying bits of dry soil in their mandibles.So you see the nest maintenance workers come out with a bit of sand,put it down, turn around, and go back in.And finally, the midden workers put some kind of territorial chemical in the garbage.So what you see the midden workers doing is making a pile of refuse.On one day, it&#39;ll all be here, and then the next daythey&#39;ll move it over there, and then they&#39;ll move it back.So that&#39;s what the midden workers do.And these four groups are just the ants outside the nest.So that&#39;s only about 25 percent of the colony, and they&#39;re the oldest ants.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:所以蚂蚁是从靠近蚁后的地方开始（生活历程）的，当我们挖开蚁穴，我们发现这些蚁穴和蚁群的宽度一样，时间较长的蚁穴深达一米。然后有一条很长的通道和一个小房间，在那里我们通常能发现蚁后。那时我们用手镐刨了八小时的岩石之后发现的。我知道那个小房间这么隐蔽不是为了防我和我的挖沟机，也不是为了防我那些拿着手镐的学生，而是因为（夏天）有水会淹进来。所以常常蚁群要潜入地下。这是所有小房间的网状图。蚁后在差不多这里，它只负责产卵。那是幼蚁，他们吃掉了大多数食物，这反映了大多数蚂蚁的情况——你看到的那些忙碌的工蚁不怎么吃。它们把食物带回来给幼蚁吃。觅食的蚂蚁带着食物进入蚁穴也只是把食物放在上面的小房间里其他的蚂蚁从下面走到上面的小房间拿走食物，把食物放进巢里，剥去种子的壳，然后把种子堆起来。而那些负责维修的蚂蚁在整个蚁穴中忙碌。挺奇怪的，也挺有趣的是，在任何时候似乎大约一半的蚂蚁无事可作。所以，虽然如圣经中所说的“看这些蚂蚁（多勤劳），懒鬼们”，事实上，你可以把那些蚂蚁看成是预备队。也就是说，如果有事发生了—-但我从来没有发现有这样的事发生，但我也只关注了20年—-如果有事发生，它们可以根据所需都会出去工作但实际上，大多时候他们都在闲逛
en:So, an ant starts out somewhere near the queen.And when we dig up nests we find they&#39;re about as deepas the colony is wide, so about a meter deep for the big old nests.And then there&#39;s another long tunnel and a chamber, where we often find the queen,after eight hours of hacking away at the rock with pickaxes.I don&#39;t think that chamber has evolved because of me and my backhoeand my crew of students with pickaxes,but instead because when there&#39;s flooding,occasionally the colony has to go down deep.So there&#39;s this whole network of chambers.The queen&#39;s in there somewhere; she just lays eggs.There&#39;s the larvae, and they consume most of the food.And this is true of most ants —that the ants you see walking around don&#39;t do much eating.They bring it back and feed it to the larvae.When the foragers come in with food, they just drop it into the upper chamber,and other ants come up from below, get the food,bring it back, husk the seeds, and pile them up.There are nest maintenance workers working throughout the nest.And curiously, and interestingly, it looks as though at any timeabout half the ants in the colony are just doing nothing.So, despite what it says in the Bible,about, you know, &quot;Look to the ant, thou sluggard,&quot;in fact, you could think of those ants as reserves.That is to say, if something happened — and I&#39;ve never seen anything like this happen,but I&#39;ve only been looking for 20 years —if something happened, they might all come out if they were needed.But in fact, mostly they&#39;re just hanging around in there.
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:我认为这是非常有趣的问题——蚁群是如何组织工作的这个问题可能会让我们明白那些无所事事的蚂蚁的作用。它们像是夹在蚁穴深处工作的蚂蚁和在外面工作的蚂蚁的一个缓冲带。如果你把在蚁穴外面工作的蚂蚁标记出来，然后挖一个蚁穴你永远也不会在深处发现它们。所以其实当蚂蚁幼小的时候它们是在蚁穴里面工作的然后进入预备队最后通过选拔参与了外部工作的队伍。一旦在外部工作了，它们就永远不会再回巢深处了。蚂蚁—-绝大多数蚂蚁，包括这些收获蚁，视力并不好。它们有眼睛，可以分辨光和黑暗，但它们通常是用嗅觉来工作的我还要强调的是大家通常对蚁后的认识并非是正确的——你们知道，即使蚁后有智力通过房间网络去发送化学信息给外面工作的蚂蚁分配工作，但这些信息也不可能及时传达，使得外面蚂蚁的工作分配变化。所以从这方面来说，我们知道蚁后没有在指挥蚁群的工作。
en:And I think it&#39;s a very interesting question —what is there about the way the colony is organizedthat might give some function to a reserve of ants who are doing nothing?And they sort of stand as a buffer in betweenthe ants working deep inside the nest and the ants working outside.And if you mark ants that are working outside, and dig up a colony,you never see them deep down.So what&#39;s happening is that the ants work inside the nest when they&#39;re younger.They somehow get into this reserve.And then eventually they get recruited to join this exterior workforce.And once they belong to the ants that work outside, they never go back down.Now ants — most ants, including these, don&#39;t see very well.They have eyes, they can distinguish between light and dark,but they mostly work by smell.So just to reinforce that what you might have thoughtabout ant queens isn&#39;t true —you know, even if the queen did have the intelligenceto send chemical messages through this whole network of chambersto tell the ants outside what to do,there is no way that such messages could make it in time to seethe shifts in the allocation of workers that we actually see outside the nest.So that&#39;s one way that we know the queen isn&#39;t directing the behavior of the colony.
时间：10:04
zh-cn:所以当我一开始研究任务分配时我的第一个问题是：到底不同工作的蚂蚁之间是什么关系？负责维修的蚂蚁对觅食的蚂蚁有影响吗？巡逻的蚂蚁对负责垃圾的蚂蚁有影响吗？我一直持这样的观点：就是蚁群中的每只蚂蚁从出生开始就一直致力于其工作，而且似乎是独立地工作，也明白自己在生产线上处于什么位置。相反，我想问的是：不同的工作种类之间是怎么相互联系的呢？
en:So when I first set out to work on task allocation,my first question was, &quot;What&#39;s the relationshipbetween the ants doing different tasks?Does it matter to the foragers what the nest maintenance workers are doing?Does it matter to the midden workers what the patrollers are doing?&quot;And I was working in the context of a view of ant colonies in which each antwas somehow dedicated to its task from birthand sort of performed independently of the others,knowing its place on the assembly line.And instead I wanted to ask, &quot;How are the different task groups interdependent?&quot;
时间：10:37
zh-cn:所以我做了个实验，只改变了（关系网中的）一个元素。比如说，我把一捆牙签放在蚁穴入口处，给负责维修的蚂蚁更多工作。每天一大早负责维修的蚂蚁是最早开始活动起来的。这张图展示的是20分钟之后的情况，这是大约40分钟之后。这些蚂蚁把所有牙签都搬到离蚁穴较远的地方。然后我想要知道的是：好这种情况下蚁群需要用更多负责维修的蚂蚁这是否会对作其他工作的蚂蚁有影响呢？下一步我们拿那些标记的蚂蚁做这个实验，这是一些蓝色的负责维修的蚂蚁，接着我们做得更复杂一点，我们用三种不同颜色来标记蚂蚁，这样我们可以把每一只蚂蚁都单独标记出来，这样我们就知道哪只是哪只了。我们开始用飞机模型的涂料然后找到这些不错的小型日产标记笔。结果显示这些工具非常好用。在此我只总结一下实验的结果，那就是的确不同的工作的相互有联系的。所以如果你改变了作一类工作的蚂蚁数量，就改变了作另一类工作的蚂蚁数量。比如说，如果你（把巢）弄乱，负责维修的蚂蚁就要清扫干净，我就发现出去觅食的蚂蚁变少了。这个（此消彼长的）结论适用于所有成对组合的工作。
en:So I did experiments where I changed one thing.So for example, I created more work for the nest maintenance workersby putting out a pile of toothpicks near the nest entrance,early in the morning when the nest maintenance workers are first active.This is what it looks like about 20 minutes later.Here it is about 40 minutes later.And the nest maintenance workers just take all the toothpicksto the outer edge of the nest mound and leave them there.And what I wanted to know was, &quot;OK,here&#39;s a situation where extra nest maintenance workers were recruited —is this going to have any effect on the workers performing other tasks?&quot;Then we repeated all those experiments with the ants marked.So here&#39;s some blue nest maintenance workers.And lately we&#39;ve gotten more sophisticatedand we have this three-color system.And we can mark them individually so we know which ant is which.We started out with model airplane paintand then we found these wonderful little Japanese markers,and they work really well.And so just to summarize the result,well it turns out that yes, the different tasks are interdependent.So, if I change the numbers performing one task,it changes the numbers performing another.So for example, if I make a messthat the nest maintenance workers have to clean up,then I see fewer ants out foraging.And this was true for all the pair-wise combinations of tasks.
时间：11:49
zh-cn:（我们）得出的第二个结论可能会让很多人吃惊，就是蚂蚁其实在交换着工作。一只蚂蚁不会一生一世只做同一项工作。比如说，如果我放点食物在那边，（不光是迷失的蚂蚁，）其他蚂蚁——原来只负责垃圾的蚂蚁停止手头的工作，出来搬走食物它们成了觅食的蚂蚁啦。负责维修的蚂蚁也成了觅食的蚂蚁。巡逻的蚂蚁也是。但不是任何（两个工作）都能互变的。这张图显示着（蚁群）如何转变（他们的工作）。正如我说的，如果有更多的食物要搬，那些巡逻的蚂蚁，负责垃圾的蚂蚁负责维修的蚂蚁都可以成为觅食蚂蚁。如果有更多巡逻的任务要做比如我给它们制造了点麻烦，所以需要更多的巡逻蚂蚁，负责维修的蚂蚁可以转变为巡逻蚂蚁。但如果需要更多的负责维修的蚂蚁，比如说我放了一捆牙签——没有其他有工作的蚂蚁会回来为负责维修的蚂蚁，它们必须从蚁穴里面把负责维修的蚂蚁叫出来。所以觅食谁都可以做，而在巢里面工作的蚂蚁就是人力储备。最后，看起来似乎每只蚂蚁都每时每刻都在作决定该去做什么事。
en:And the second result, which was surprising to a lot of people,was that ants actually switch tasks.The same ant doesn&#39;t do the same task over and over its whole life.So for example, if I put out extra food, everybody else —the midden workers stop doing midden work and go get the food,they become foragers.The nest maintenance workers become foragers.The patrollers become foragers.But not every transition is possible. And this shows how it works.Like I just said, if there is more food to collect, the patrollers, the midden workers,the nest maintenance workers will all change to forage.If there&#39;s more patrolling to do —so I created a disturbance, so extra patrollers were needed —the nest maintenance workers will switch to patrol.But if more nest maintenance work is needed —for example, if I put out a bunch of toothpicks —then nobody will ever switch back to nest maintenance,they have to get nest maintenance workers from inside the nest.So foraging acts as a sink, and the ants inside the nest act as a source.And finally, it looks like each ant is decidingmoment to moment whether to be active or not.
时间：12:52
zh-cn:比如说，如果需要做维修工作，觅食的蚂蚁不会转变。我知道它们不会这样做。但觅食的蚂蚁是因为某种原因能下决定不来帮忙。于是就产生了最神奇的结果：任务分配。这个过程随着蚁群年龄的增长而像这样变化。当我对比较年长的蚁群做实验时——那些生存五年或更长的蚁群——它们从一种情况到另一种情况的转变更稳定，更能自我平衡。遇到的事越糟糕，我越打扰它们，他们越表现得不被打扰一样。然后那些比较年轻的小蚁群——只有两千只蚂蚁的两年蚁群——显得更多变。更令人惊奇的是，蚂蚁只活一年。可能是这一年或是那一年。所以，在年长的蚁群中那些更稳重的蚂蚁们，并不比年轻的蚁群中的蚂蚁们老多少。（所以）这不是因为较老的蚂蚁有经验，更聪明，而是因为当蚁群变老时，整个组织里有什么别的东西变化了。而变化最大的就是蚁群的规模。
en:So, for example, when there&#39;s extra nest maintenance work to do,it&#39;s not that the foragers switch over. I know that they don&#39;t do that.But the foragers somehow decide not to come out.And here was the most intriguing result: the task allocation.This process changes with colony age, and it changes like this.When I do these experiments with older colonies —so ones that are five years or older —they&#39;re much more consistent from one time to anotherand much more homeostatic. The worse things get,the more I hassle them, the more they act like undisturbed colonies.Whereas the young, small colonies —the two-year-old colonies of just 2,000 ants — are much more variable.And the amazing thing about this is that an ant lives only a year.It could be this year, or this year.So, the ants in the older colony that seem to be more stableare not any older than the ants in the younger colony.It&#39;s not due to the experience of older, wiser ants.Instead, something about the organizationmust be changing as the colony gets older.And the obvious thing that&#39;s changing is its size.
时间：13:54
zh-cn:自从我得出了这个结论，我用了很长时间尝试着去弄明白蚂蚁们用的是一种什么规律来作决定的——（这种规律必须是）简单的，小范围内的，极有可能是用嗅觉或化学信息传导的。既然没有蚂蚁可以纵观全局，每一只蚂蚁都在使用这个规律——这样才会导致我所看到的现象，这些可预测的变化，关于哪只蚂蚁做什么工作，而且这个规律还会随蚁群的壮大而发生变化。更进一步，我发现蚂蚁正在用触觉网络。看到过蚂蚁的人可以会看到它们触碰着触角，它们靠触角来嗅。当一只蚂蚁用触角在接触另一只蚂蚁，就说明它在嗅它。并且蚂蚁可以分辨气味。比如说，对方是不是同一个蚁穴的。因为蚂蚁区分其他蚂蚁是通过涂抹一层带有蚁穴特殊气味的油脂。于是我们就知道蚂蚁是通过分析它用触角接触过的其它工种的蚂蚁的几率和频率，来决定做它自己该作什么。所以蚂蚁间传递的信息，并不是一般的（无关紧要的）信息，它们相互传达的，其实是概率。概率本身就是信息。我想稍微详细地再讲解一下（这个概率的问题）。
en:So since I&#39;ve had this result, I&#39;ve spent a lot of time trying to figure outwhat kinds of decision rules — very simple, local, probably olfactory, chemicalrules could an ant could be using, since no ant can assess the global situation —that would have the outcome that I see,these predictable dynamics, in who does what task.And it would change as the colony gets larger.And what I&#39;ve found out is that ants are using a network of antennal contact.So anybody who&#39;s ever looked at ants has seen them touch antennae.They smell with their antennae.When one ant touches another, it&#39;s smelling it,and it can tell, for example, whether the other ant is a nest matebecause ants cover themselves and each other, through grooming,with a layer of grease, which carries a colony-specific odor.And what we&#39;re learning is that an ant uses the pattern of its antennal contacts,the rate at which it meets ants of other tasks, in deciding what to do.And so what the message is, is not any messagethat they transmit from one ant to another, but the pattern.The pattern itself is the message.And I&#39;ll tell you a little bit more about that.
时间：15:07
zh-cn:但首先你们可能想知道，蚂蚁是怎么分辨（其他工种的）——比如说，我是觅食蚂蚁，我预料到我会经常碰到其他觅食蚂蚁，但如果我碰到更多的是负责维修的蚂蚁，我就不太乐意去觅食。所以它必须知道觅食蚂蚁与负责维修的蚂蚁的区别。我们已经知道，在蚂蚁这类生物——我怀疑对其它生物也是这样-——这些碳氢化合物，这层涂在蚂蚁外表的油脂，会因不同的工种而不同。我们做的实验表明，那是因为在蚁穴外面待的时间越长，这层碳氢化合物的表面变化越大，所以它们就因不同的工种而有不同的气味。于是它们就可以利用这种在表层的由于工种不同而不同的气味——它们在短暂的触角接触之后可以利用这些气味对碰见其他工种的蚂蚁的频率做到心中有数。我们最近展示了这个原理。我们把浓缩的碳氢化合物涂在小型玻璃珠上，以正确的频率轻轻地丢在蚁穴入口，结果是蚂蚁会以正确的频率去接触这些涂有浓缩碳氢化合物的小型玻璃珠，就好像它们与真的蚂蚁接触一样。
en:But first you might be wondering:how is it that an ant can tell, for example, I&#39;m a forager.I expect to meet another forager every so often.But if instead I start to meet a higher number of nest maintenance workers,I&#39;m less likely to forage.So it has to know the difference betweena forager and a nest maintenance worker.And we&#39;ve learned that, in this species —and I suspect in others as well —these hydrocarbons, this layer of grease on the outside of ants,is different as ants perform different tasks.And we&#39;ve done experiments that show thatthat&#39;s because the longer an ant stays outside,the more these simple hydrocarbons on its surface change,and so they come to smell different by doing different tasks.And they can use that task-specific odor in cuticular hydrocarbons —they can use that in their brief antennal contacts to somehowkeep track of the rate at which they&#39;re meeting ants of certain tasks.And we&#39;ve just recently demonstrated thisby putting extract of hydrocarbons on little glass beads,and dropping the beads gently down into the nest entrance at the right rate.And it turns out that ants will respond to the right rate of contactwith a glass bead with hydrocarbon extract on it,as they would to contact with real ants.
时间：16:25
zh-cn:所以我想给你们看一小段视频——一开始，你们看到的是蚁穴的入口蚂蚁在入口进进出出。它们去做不同的工作，当它们进出入口的时候，它们接触的频率决定了，或影响了每只蚂蚁关于是否出去，去做什么工作的决定。这是由光纤显微镜拍摄的。这是在蚁穴里面。一开始你可以看到蚂蚁们似乎在玩光纤显微镜，但关键是这些蚂蚁呆在那里，每一只都会“感觉”其他蚂蚁们经过——通过与其他蚂蚁一系列的接触。而这些交流的频率就决定了（这些呆在显微镜前的）蚂蚁是否出来，出来后做什么。你可以看到这些在蚁穴入口的蚂蚁也是这样。每只蚂蚁，当它回来时，都在接触其它蚂蚁。那些等在蚁穴入口里面的蚂蚁，为了决定是否要再出去，正在和进来的蚂蚁接触。
en:So I want now to show you a bit of film —and this will start out, first of all, showing you the nest entrance.So the idea is that ants are coming in and out of the nest entrance.They&#39;ve gone out to do different tasks, and the rate at which they meetas they come in and out of the nest entrance determines, or influences,each ant&#39;s decision about whether to go out, and which task to perform.This is taken through a fiber optics microscope. It&#39;s down inside the nest.In the beginning you see the antsjust kind of engaging with the fiber optics microscope.But the idea is that the ants are in there,and each ant is experiencing a certain flow of ants past it —a stream of contacts with other ants.And the pattern of these interactions determineswhether the ant comes back out, and what it does when it comes back out.You can also see this in the ants just outside the nest entrance like these.Each ant, then, as it comes back in, is contacting other ants.And the ants that are waiting just inside the nest entranceto decide whether to go out on their next trip,are contacting the ants coming in.
时间：17:40
zh-cn:所以，这个系统最有趣的地方是乱中有序。这是多变的，而且有很多干扰。特别在两个方面：一是蚂蚁们的体验——每只蚂蚁的体验——是是没法精确预测的。因为蚂蚁回来的频率决定于每只蚂蚁在出去工作时所发生的小事。二是蚂蚁评估这种几率的能力肯定是很粗糙的，因为没有蚂蚁可以做精确的计算。所以我们做了很多模拟试验的工作去弄明白当这两个干扰共同作用，来作为一个整体，导致蚁群可预测的行为。
en:So, what&#39;s interesting about this system is that it&#39;s messy.It&#39;s variable. It&#39;s noisy. And, in particular, in two ways.The first is that the experience of the ant — of each ant — can&#39;t be very predictable.Because the rate at which ants come back depends onall the little things that happen to an ant as it goes out and does its task outside.And the second thing is that an ant&#39;s ability to assess this patternmust be very crude because no ant can do any sophisticated counting.So, we do a lot of simulation and modeling, and also experimental work,to try to figure out how those two kinds of noise combine to,in the aggregate, produce the predictable behavior of ant colonies.
时间：18:30
zh-cn:同时，我不认为这类偶然的交流方式，可以建起工厂里一样机械化的精确度和效率。事实上，如果你看着这些蚂蚁，你最终会想去帮它们。因为无论它们做什么，总是看起来和你觉得应该他们应该用的方式有出入。所以由于这些偶然的接触，这种机制是不完美的。但它却运行良好。蚂蚁已经生存了几亿年了除了南极洲，它们到处都有。它们这种偶然接触的沟通方式总体来说， 必定是非常成功的，才能使蚂蚁的数量变得更多。另一件我们要研究的是自然选择如何改变蚂蚁的这种交流方式——这种交流的网络——去提高蚁群觅食的效率。
en:Again, I don&#39;t want to say that this kind of haphazard pattern of interactionsproduces a factory that works with the precision and efficiency of clockwork.In fact, if you watch ants at all, you end up trying to help thembecause they never seem to be doing anythingexactly the way that you think that they ought to be doing it.So it&#39;s not really that out of these haphazard contacts, perfection arises.But it works pretty well.Ants have been around for several hundred million years.They cover the earth, except for Antarctica.Something that they&#39;re doing is clearly successful enoughthat this pattern of haphazard contacts, in the aggregate,produces something that allows ants to make a lot more ants.And one of the things that we&#39;re studying is how natural selectionmight be acting now to shape this use of interaction patterns —this network of interaction patterns —to perhaps increase the foraging efficiency of ant colonies.
时间：19:33
zh-cn:但有件事我想大家要记住的是这些交流的方式，是与蚁群的规模密切相关的。最简单的解释是当一只蚂蚁在小的蚁群中——当然在大的蚁群的蚂蚁同样的规则也适用会说：“我想我每三秒钟就会碰见另一只觅食蚂蚁。”但在小的蚁群中，这只蚂蚁碰到觅食蚂蚁的可能性较小，仅仅因为觅食蚂蚁少，所以不常碰到。所以当蚁群发展地越大，变得越老，这个规则会在大小蚁群身上有不同的结果。
en:So the one thing, though, that I want you to remember about thisis that these patterns of interactionsare something that you&#39;d expect to be closely connected to colony size.The simplest idea is that when an ant is in a small colony —and an ant in a large colony can use the same rule,like &quot;I expect to meet another forager every three seconds.&quot;But in a small colony, it&#39;s likely to meet fewer foragers,just because there are fewer other foragers there to meet.So this is the kind of rule that, as the colony develops and gets older and larger,will produce different behavior in an old colony and a small young one.
时间：20:15
zh-cn:谢谢各位。
en:Thank you.
时间：20:17
zh-cn:鼓掌
en:(Applause)
