时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我刚在公交车上见过你，并且我们真的很想了解对方，但是我得在下一站下车，所以你打算告诉我三件可以定义你这个人的事情，三件会帮助我理解你是谁的事情，三件可以显现出你的本质的事情。我很好奇的是，在这三件事中，是否有一件是从某种创伤中幸存下来。癌症幸存者、强奸幸存者、大屠杀幸存者、乱伦幸存者。
en:I just met you on a bus,and we would really like to get to know each other,but I&#39;ve got to get off at the next stop,so you&#39;re going to tell me three things about yourselfthat just define you as a person,three things about yourselfthat will help me understand who you are,three things that just get to your very essence.And what I&#39;m wonderingis, of those three things,is any one of themsurviving some kind of trauma?Cancer survivor, rape survivor,Holocaust survivor, incest survivor.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:有没有注意到我们是如何通过受过的创伤来认同我们自己的？我见过的受这种幸存者身份认同影响最深的是癌症患者群体。我已经处在这个群体中很久了，因为我已经在一家临终关怀所和医院做了近30年的牧师。2005年，当我得到我母亲得了乳腺癌的消息时我正在一家大的癌症中心工作。然后5天之后，我得到消息我也得了乳腺癌。我母亲和我可以竞争——（笑声）——但是我真的不想在这件事上跟她竞争。事实上，我当时想，如果你必须得癌症的话，那么在一个治疗癌症的地方上班会给你提供很多便利。
en:Ever notice how we tend to identify ourselvesby our wounds?And where I have seen this survivor identityhave the most consequencesis in the cancer community.And I&#39;ve been around this community for a long time,because I&#39;ve been a hospice and a hospital chaplainfor almost 30 years.And in 2005, I was working at a big cancer centerwhen I received the news thatmy mother had breast cancer.And then five days later,I received the news that I had breast cancer.My mother and I can be competitive —(Laughter) —but I was really not trying tocompete with her on this one.And in fact, I thought, well,if you have to have cancer,it&#39;s pretty convenient to be workingat a place that treats it.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:但是我听到很多愤怒的人会说，什么？你是牧师，你应该幸免的。就像是说，也许我应该只受到一点警告而不是真正的得病，因为毕竟我是一个牧师。我在我工作的癌症中心接受了治疗，那真的是非常方便。我做了化疗以及乳房切除和生理盐水植入手术，因此在我说下一句之前，让我告诉你们这就是那个假的乳房。（笑声）我发现我需要不去在意这件事，因为我会看到别人指指点点地说：“我知道哪个是假的。”然后我会用手势告诉他们“不是的，另外一个才是假的。”所以现在你们都知道了。
en:But this is what I heard from a lot of outraged people.What?You&#39;re the chaplain.You should be immune.Like, maybe I should have just gotten offwith a warning instead of an actual ticket,because I&#39;m on the force.So I did get my treatment at thecancer center where I worked,which was amazingly convenient,and I had chemotherapyand a mastectomy, and a saline implant put in,and so before I say another word,let me just say right now,this is the fake one. (Laughter)I have found that I need to get that out of the way,because I&#39;ll see somebody go&quot;Oh, I know it&#39;s this one.&quot;And then I&#39;ll move or I&#39;ll gesture and they&#39;ll go,&quot;No, it&#39;s that one.&quot;So now you know.
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:在生病期间我学到了很多，其中最令人惊讶的一件事是医疗只是癌症经历中很小的一部分。其它大多数的是关于感情和信仰、失去和寻找你的身份认同以及发现那些你拥有却从来都不知道的力量和柔性。它是关于意识到生命中最重要的事情不是其它的，而是人际关系，它是关于笑着面对不确定性以及学到逃避任何事情的方法就是说：”我有癌症。“
en:I learned a lot being a patient,and one of the surprising things wasthat only a small part of the cancer experienceis about medicine.Most of it is about feelings and faithand losing and finding your identityand discovering strengthand flexibility you never even knew you had.It&#39;s about realizing thatthe most important things in life arenot things at all, but relationships,and it&#39;s about laughing in the face of uncertaintyand learning that the way toget out of almost anythingis to say, &quot;I have cancer.&quot;
时间： 3:33
zh-cn:所以我学到的另外一件事就是我不需要将“癌症幸存者”作为我的身份标识，但是，男孩，有很强大的力量促使我那样做。请不要误解我。癌症组织、对早期筛查的推动以及对癌症的认识和研究已经将癌症规范化了，这是一件很了不起的事。我们现在不再需要悄悄地谈论癌症。我们可以公开地谈论癌症并互相支持。但有时，它让人感觉到有些人有点热心得过头了，他们开始告诉我们接下来我们将有什么感觉。
en:So the other thing I learned was thatI don&#39;t have to take on &quot;cancer survivor&quot;as my identity,but, boy, are there powerful forcespushing me to do just that.Now, don&#39;t, please, misunderstand me.Cancer organizationsand the drive for early screeningand cancer awareness and cancer researchhave normalized cancer,and this is a wonderful thing.We can now talk about cancerwithout whispering.We can talk about cancer andwe can support one another.But sometimes, it feelslike people go a little overboardand they start telling us how we&#39;re going to feel.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:大约在我做完手术一个星期后，家里来了一位客人。那可能是我们的第一个错误。请记住那时我已经做了超过20年的牧师了，像临终和死亡以及生命的意义之类的事情，是我一直都在唠叨的。所以在那天的晚餐上，我们的客人开始伸展他的双臂，并且说，“你知道吗，黛布，你现在真的要去学习什么是重要的。是的，你要在你的生命中做一些大的改变，你要开始思考死亡。没错，这场癌症是对你的警告。“这些都是某个人从他自己的经历出发所总结的金石良言，但是当这个人是在告诉你你接下来将有什么样的感觉时，这些都是即时垃圾。那晚我没用我的赤手空拳将他杀掉的唯一理由就是我不能举起我的右手。但是我真的对他说了一个很不好的字眼，夹杂在正常的句子中，那个词——（笑声）——使得我丈夫赶紧打圆场：“她刚用了麻醉药。”（笑声）然后治疗过后，感觉好像每一个人都在跟我说我的经历将对我意味着什么。“哦，这意味着你要多散散步。““哦，这意味着你要去吃午餐了。““哦，这意味着你要打粉红色的丝带和穿粉红色的T恤以及粉红色的头巾、耳环、手镯和内裤。“内裤，不，严肃的说，谷歌一下它。（笑声）这个怎么可能提高人们对癌症的意识？只有我丈夫可以看到我的内裤。（笑声）他已经对癌症有很清楚的认识了。
en:So about a week after my surgery,we had a houseguest.That was probably our first mistake.And keep in mind thatat this point in my lifeI had been a chaplain for over 20 years,and issues like dying and deathand the meaning of life,these are all things I&#39;d been yakking about forever.So at dinner that night,our houseguest proceeds tostretch his arms up over his head,and say, &quot;You know, Deb,now you&#39;re really going to learn what&#39;s important.Yes, you are going to make some big changesin your life,and now you&#39;re going to startthinking about your death.Yep, this cancer is your wakeup call.&quot;Now, these are golden wordscoming from someone who is speaking abouttheir own experience,but when someone is telling youhow you are going to feel,it&#39;s instant crap.The only reason I did not kill himwith my bare handswas because I could not lift my right arm.But I did say a really bad word to him,followed by a regular word, that —(Laughter) —made my husband say, &quot;She&#39;s on narcotics.&quot;(Laughter)And then after my treatment, it just felt likeeveryone was telling me what myexperience was going to mean.&quot;Oh, this means you&#39;re going to be doing the walk.&quot;&quot;Oh, this means you&#39;re coming to the luncheon.&quot;&quot;This means you&#39;re going to be wearingthe pink ribbon and the pink t-shirtand the headband and the earringsand the bracelet and the panties.&quot;Panties. No, seriously, google it.(Laughter)How is that raising awareness?Only my husband should be seeing my panties.(Laughter)He&#39;s pretty aware of cancer already.
时间： 6:21
zh-cn:这就是那时我的感受，哦，天啦，我的生命就被这些东西接管了。那时我告诉自己，定义你的经历。不要让它定义你。我们都知道应付创伤、失败或者任何能改变人生的经历的方法就是找到意义。但是事实是这样的：没有人能告诉我们那些我们经历过的事情意味着什么。我们必须确定它的意义。并且它不一定非得是什么巨大的、外向性的意义。我们也不必都去创建一个基金会或者什么组织之类的，不必都去写一本书或拍一部纪录片什么的。意义可以是安静和含蓄的。也许我们做的一个关于我们生活的一个小决定就可以带来大的改变。
en:It was at that point where I felt like, oh my God,this is just taking over my life.And that&#39;s when I told myself, claim your experience.Don&#39;t let it claim you.We all know thatthe way to cope with trauma, with loss,with any life-changing experience,is to find meaning.But here&#39;s the thing:No one can tell uswhat our experience means.We have to decide what it means.And it doesn&#39;t have to be some gigantic,extroverted meaning.We don&#39;t all have to start a foundationor an organization or write a bookor make a documentary.Meaning can be quietand introverted.Maybe we make one small decision about our livesthat can bring about big change.
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:很多年前，我有一个病人，一个非常不错的年青人，他深受我们员工的喜爱，因此当得知他没有一个朋友时我很震惊。他一个人住，他独自过来化疗，接受完治疗又独自一个走回家。我甚至问过他，我说，“嘿，你怎么从来没有带朋友一起来过？“他说，“我真的没有任何朋友。”但是他在输液层却有很多的朋友。我们都很喜欢他，他的房间一直人来人往。在他最后一次化疗时，我们为他唱歌我们给他带上花环并给他吹泡泡，然后我问他，我说，“你现在打算怎么做？”他回答道，“交朋友。”并且他那样做了。他开始做义工并且在那里交了一些朋友，他开始去教堂并且在那里交了一些朋友，圣诞节时他邀请我和我丈夫去他的公寓参加了一个聚会，房间里满满的都是他的朋友。定义你的经历。不要让它定义你。他确定他的癌症经历的意义就是懂得了友谊的乐趣，然后学会了交朋友。
en:Many years ago, I had a patient,just a wonderful young manwho was loved by the staff,and so it was something of a shock to us to realizethat he had no friends.He lived by himself,he would come in for chemotherapy by himself,he would receive his treatment,and then he&#39;d walk home alone.And I even asked him. I said, &quot;Hey,how come you never bring a friend with you?&quot;And he said, &quot;I don&#39;t really have any friends.&quot;But he had tons of friends on the infusion floor.We all loved him, and people were goingin and out of his room all the time.So at his last chemo,we sang him the songand we put the crown on his head and we blew the bubbles,and then I asked him, I said,&quot;So what are you going to do now?&quot;And he answered,&quot;Make friends.&quot;And he did.He started volunteering and he made friends there,and he began going to a churchand he made friends there,and at Christmas he invited my husbandand me to a party in his apartment,and the place was filled with his friends.Claim your experience.Don&#39;t let it claim you.He decided that the meaning of his experiencewas to know the joy of friendship,and then learn to make friends.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:那么你呢？你将如何在糟糕的经历中找到意义？可能是最近的一次经历，或者是已经伴随了你很长时间的一段经历。对于改变它的意义来说永远不会嫌迟，因为意义是动态的。它今天所代表的意思可能跟1年后或者10年后已经不一样了。成为其他类型的人而不仅仅是幸存者是永远也不嫌迟的。这个词听起来是多么的静止。幸存者。没有运动，也没有成长。定义你的经历。不要让它定义你，因为如果你被它定义了，我相信你会陷入困境，你不会再成长，也不会再发展。
en:So what about you?How are you going to find meaningin your crappy experience?It could be a recent one,or it could be one that you&#39;ve been carrying aroundfor a really long time.It&#39;s never too late to change what it means,because meaning is dynamic.What it means todaymay not be what it means a year from now,or 10 years from now.It&#39;s never too late to become someone otherthan simply a survivor.Hear how static that word sounds?Survivor.No movement, no growth.Claim your experience.Don&#39;t let it claim you, because if you do,I believe you will become trapped,you will not grow, you will not evolve.
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:当然，有时候并不是外部的压力导致我们为自己贴上幸存者的标识。而是因为有时我们喜欢这种特权享受。有时候会因此得利。但是之后我们会陷入困境。在作为一个牧师实习生时我首先学到的就是关于牧师工作的3C：安慰（Comfort）、解释（clarify）以及必要的时候对抗（ confront）或者说挑战（ challenge）。我们都很喜欢安慰和解释。而对于对抗，可能态度就不一样了。
en:But of course, sometimes it&#39;s not outside pressuresthat cause us to take on that identity of survivor.Sometimes we just like the perks.Sometimes there&#39;s a payoff.But then we get stuck.Now, one of the first things I learnedas a chaplain intern was the three C&#39;sof the chaplain&#39;s job:Comfort, clarify and, when necessary, confrontor challenge.Now, we all pretty much love the comfortingand the clarifying.The confronting, not so much.
时间：10:41
zh-cn:作为一名牧师另外一件我喜欢的事情就是去见那些结束治疗一年后甚至几年后的病人，因为亲眼看着他们如何改变、他们的生活如何进步以及他们身体发生了什么是一件很酷的事情。所以当有一天我在诊所的大堂看到一个一年前见过的病人时非常兴奋，她跟她的两个已成年的女儿在那儿，我知道她是结束治疗一年后来做复查的。我走进了大堂，她们当时正欣喜若狂，因为她刚拿到了检查结果，结果是无疾病征兆（NED）。我以前以为NED的意思是没有完全死去。所以她们很开心，我们坐下来闲谈，然而事情有点奇怪，因为谈不到两分钟，她开始对我复述关于她的诊断、手术和化疗的故事，尽管做为她的牧师，我之前每个星期都见她，所以我是知道那些故事的。而且她使用了像“煎熬“、“痛苦”、“挣扎”这样的字眼。最后她用“我感到自己被钉在了十字架上”结束了她的故事。就在那时，她的两个女儿起身说道，“我们去喝咖啡了。”然后她们离开了。在下一站之前告诉我三件关于你的事。人们可能会在她说到第二件或第三件事之前就下车。我给她递了一张纸巾，并且拥抱了她，然后，因为我真的很关心这个女人，所以我对她说，“从十字架上下来吧。“然后她说，“什么？”我重复道，“从十字架上下来吧。”为了给自己增光，她可以说出她接受然后坚持这个身份标识的理由。它给她带来了很多关注。人们本来希望通过关心使她改变。但是现在，它正取得相反的效果。它反而在促使人们离开。人们离开她去喝咖啡。她通过自己的经历使自己感觉到被钉在十字架上，但是她又不想让这个被钉在十字架上的自己死掉。也许你们在想我对她有一点苛刻，所以我必须告诉你我只是在说出我自己的经历。很多很多年前，我从一个自己喜欢的职位上被炒了，然后我不停地述说我的清白、受到的不公正的待遇、公司的背叛和卑鄙，直到最后，就像这个女人一样，人们离我而去，直到我最终意识到我不仅仅是在炮制我自己的感受，而且也在将这些感受输送给他们。我不想让被钉在十字架上的自己死去。但是我们都知道在任何的重生故事中，你都必须先死去。基督教的故事中，耶稣在复活之前被埋在坟墓里整整一天。我认为对于我们来说，在坟墓里的意思就是围绕着自己的创伤去做内心深处的工作，并且允许自己的创伤愈合。我们得让被钉在十字架上的自我死去，这样才能让一个全新的、更真实的自我诞生。我们要让旧的故事成为过去，这样才能讲述全新的、更真实的故事。定义你的经历，不要让它定义你。
en:One of the other things that I lovedabout being a chaplain wasseeing patients a year, or even several yearsafter their treatment, becauseit was just really cool to see how they had changedand how their lives had evolvedand what had happened to them.So I was thrilled one dayto get a page down into the lobby of the clinicfrom a patient who I had seen the year before,and she was there with her two adult daughters,who I also knew, for her one year follow-up exam.So I got down to the lobby, and they were ecstaticbecause she had just gottenall of her test results backand she was NED: No Evidence of Disease.Which I used to think meant Not Entirely Dead.So they were ecstatic, we sat down to visit,and it was so weird, becausewithin two minutes, she started retelling me the storyof her diagnosis and her surgery and her chemo,even though, as her chaplain, I saw her every week,and so I knew this story.And she was using words like suffering,agony, struggle.And she ended her story with,&quot;I felt crucified.&quot;And at that point, her two daughters got up and said,&quot;We&#39;re going to go get coffee.&quot;And they left.Tell me three things aboutyourself before the next stop.People were leaving the bus before she even gotto number two or number three.So I handed her a tissue,and I gave her a hug,and then, because I really cared for this woman,I said,&quot;Get down off your cross.&quot;And she said, &quot;What?&quot;And I repeated, &quot;Get down off your cross.&quot;And to her credit, she could talk about her reasonsfor embracing and then clinging to this identity.It got her a lot of attention.People were taking care of her for a change.But now, it was having the opposite effect.It was pushing people away.People kept leaving to get coffee.She felt crucified by her experience,but she didn&#39;t want to let that crucified self die.Now, perhaps you are thinkingI was a little harsh with her,so I must tell you thatI was speaking out of my own experience.Many, many years before,I had been fired from a job that I loved,and I would not stop talking about my innocenceand the injustice and the betrayal and the deceipt,until finally, just like this woman,people were walking away from me,until I finally realizedI wasn&#39;t just processing my feelings,I was feeding them.I didn&#39;t want to let that crucified self die.But we all know that with any resurrection story,you have to die first.The Christian story,Jesus was dead a whole day in the tombbefore he was resurrected.And I believe that for us,being in the tombmeans doing our own deep inner workaround our woundsand allowing ourselves to be healed.We have to let that crucified self dieso that a new self, a truer self,is born.We have to let that old story goso that a new story, a truer story,can be told.Claim your experience. Don&#39;t let it claim you.
时间：15:05
zh-cn:如果没有幸存者，没有所谓的意义会怎么样，如果人们仅仅把他们的创伤当作一种经历而不是作为一个身份标识又会怎么样？也许这将使我们不再受困于我们的创伤并且开始奇妙的自我探索、发现和成长。也许它将使我们开始通过认识到我们曾经是什么样的人以及我们将会成为什么样的人来定义自己。
en:What if there were no survivors,meaning, what if people decidedto just claim their trauma as an experienceinstead of taking it on as an identity?Maybe it would be the end of beingtrapped in our woundsand the beginning of amazingself-exploration and discovery and growth.Maybe it would be the start of defining ourselvesby who we have becomeand who we are becoming.
时间：15:41
zh-cn:所以也许成为幸存者不是你将要告诉我的三件事之一。没关系。我只是想让你们都知道很高兴我们能在同一辆公交车上，并且我到站了。
en:So perhaps survivor was notone of the three things that you would tell me.No matter.I just want you all to know thatI am really glad that we are on this bus together,and this is my stop.
时间：16:04
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
