时间： 0:11
zh-cn:很高兴来到这里与大家探讨我至为关心的一个主题，那就是”美“。我研究艺术与审美哲学，事实上，这是我的工作。我想在理性，哲学，以及心理学的层面上理解，”美”的体验究竟是什么，哪些感知是能被描述出来的以及人们在尝试理解它的过程中犯了什么错误。这是个很复杂的问题，部分原因是因为我们认为“美”的事物是如此的不同。想象下这高度的多元性婴儿的脸蛋，柏辽兹所作的“哈罗德在意大利”，像“绿野仙踪”这样的影片，或是契诃夫的戏剧，加利福尼亚中部的风景，北斋眼中的富士山，“玫瑰骑士”，世界杯足球赛中的一场漂亮的决胜赛，梵高的“星空”，一部简.奥斯丁的小说，弗雷德·阿斯泰尔在舞台上起舞。这一简单的列表中包含了人类自身，自然景观，艺术作品和专业活动。很难用一个解释就说清楚所有这些事物中所存在的‘美“。
en:Delighted to be hereand to talk to you about a subject dear to my heart,which is beauty.I do the philosophy of art, aesthetics,actually, for a living.I try to figure out intellectually,philosophically, psychologically,what the experience of beauty is,what sensibly can be said about itand how people go off the rails in trying to understand it.Now this is an extremely complicated subject,in part because the things that we call beautifulare so different.I mean just think of the sheer variety —a baby&#39;s face,Berlioz&#39;s &quot;Harold in Italy,&quot;movies like &quot;The Wizard of Oz&quot;or the plays of Chekhov,a central California landscape,a Hokusai view of Mt. Fuji,&quot;Der Rosenkavalier,&quot;a stunning match-winning goalin a World Cup soccer match,Van Gogh&#39;s &quot;Starry Night,&quot;a Jane Austen novel,Fred Astaire dancing across the screen.This brief list includes human beings,natural landforms,works of art and skilled human actions.An account that explains the presence of beautyin everything on this listis not going to be easy.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:然而，我能给大家体会一下我认为迄今为止我们所有的最有力的关于’美‘的理论。这一理论不是来自艺术哲学家，也不是来自后现代艺术理论家或是有名的艺术评论家。不，这一理论来自一位饲养藤壶、昆虫和鸽子的专家。你们知道我说的是谁—查尔斯·达尔文。当然，许多人认为他们已经知道了关于这个问题的正确答案，什么是美？美是观者的主观感受它是那些让你感动的东西。或者说，如一些人—尤其是学院派的人—推崇的，美存在于处在文化环境中的观者的眼中。人们都同意绘画、电影或音乐是美妙的。这是因为他们的文化决定了统一的审美品味。对自然美景和对艺术作品的品味能轻而易举跨越不同文化。贝多芬在日本收到推崇，秘鲁人喜爱日本木版画，印加雕刻则被英国博物馆视若珍宝,莎士比亚的著作被译成地球上各种主要语言。再想下美国爵士乐或美国电影—他们随处可见。这些艺术之间有许多不同，但也包含着普世的，跨越文化的审美愉悦和审美价值。
en:I can, however, give you at least a tasteof what I regardas the most powerful theory of beautywe yet have.And we get it not from a philosopher of art,not from a postmodern art theoristor a bigwig art critic.No, this theorycomes from an experton barnacles and worms and pigeon breeding,and you know who I mean:Charles Darwin.Of course, a lot of people think they already knowthe proper answer to the question,&quot;What is beauty?&quot;It&#39;s in the eye of the beholder.It&#39;s whatever moves you personally.Or, as some people,especially academics prefer,beauty is in the culturally conditionedeye of the beholder.People agree that paintings or movies or musicare beautifulbecause their cultures determine a uniformity of aesthetic taste.Taste for both natural beauty and for the artstravel across cultureswith great ease.Beethoven is adored in Japan.Peruvians love Japanese woodblock prints.Inca sculptures are regarded as treasuresin British museums,while Shakespeare is translatedinto every major language of the Earth.Or just think about American jazzor American movies —they go everywhere.There are many differences among the arts,but there are also universal,cross-cultural aesthetic pleasuresand values.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:我们如何解释这一普世性呢？最佳答案存在于对我们艺术和审美品味的达尔文主义进化过程的重新构建的尝试中。我们需要进行逆向组建我们当前的艺术品味和爱好并解释它们是如何被铭刻在我们思想中的。通过我们在史前，很可能是在我们完全进化成人类的”更新世“环境中，以及在我们在进化过程中所处的社会环境中的活动。这种逆向重建能从史前的人类记录中有所启发。我指的是化石、洞穴绘画等等。并且，应该考虑到生存到十九世纪和二十世纪的与世隔绝的狩猎族群的审美情趣。
en:How can we explainthis universality?The best answer lies in trying to reconstructa Darwinian evolutionary historyof our artistic and aesthetic tastes.We need to reverse-engineerour present artistic tastes and preferencesand explain how they cameto be engraved in our mindsby the actions of both our prehistoric,largely pleistocene environments,where we became fully human,but also by the social situationsin which we evolved.This reverse engineeringcan also enlist helpfrom the human recordpreserved in prehistory.I mean fossils, cave paintings and so forth.And it should take into accountwhat we know of the aesthetic interestsof isolated hunter-gatherer bandsthat survived into the 19th and the 20th centuries.
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:我个人确信任何强烈而令人愉悦的“美”的体验，都属于我们进化之后的人类心理的一部分。美的体验是整个达尔文主义适应过程中的一个成份。美是一种适应性效果，我们在艺术娱乐的创作与享受中将其延伸并强化。正如大家可能知道的，进化有两个主要的机制。第一个是自然选择—这是中是随机的基因突变和选择性保留—与我们基本解剖学和生理学结构一起—如胰腺、眼睛或指甲的进化。自然选择也解释了许多本能性的恐惧和反感，比如腐肉的可怕的气味，比如对蛇的惧怕或站在悬崖边缘的恐惧。自然选择也解释了愉悦—性愉悦，对糖、脂肪和蛋白质的喜爱，这反过来解释了许多广受欢迎的食物，从成熟的果实到巧克力糖和烤排骨。
en:Now, I personallyhave no doubt whatsoeverthat the experience of beauty,with its emotional intensity and pleasure,belongs to our evolved human psychology.The experience of beauty is one componentin a whole series of Darwinian adaptations.Beauty is an adaptive effect,which we extendand intensifyin the creation and enjoymentof works of art and entertainment.As many of you will know,evolution operates by two main primary mechanisms.The first of these is natural selection —that&#39;s random mutation and selective retention —along with our basic anatomy and physiology —the evolution of the pancreas or the eye or the fingernails.Natural selection also explainsmany basic revulsions,such as the horrid smell of rotting meat,or fears, such as the fear of snakesor standing close to the edge of a cliff.Natural selection also explains pleasures —sexual pleasure,our liking for sweet, fat and proteins,which in turn explains a lot of popular foods,from ripe fruits through chocolate maltsand barbecued ribs.
时间： 5:22
zh-cn:进化的另一大原则是性选择，它运作的方式则大相径庭.孔雀那华丽的尾巴就是最著名的例子。这不是为了自然生存而进化出来的。实际上，这与自然生存相违背。不，孔雀的尾巴是雌孔雀交配选择的结果。这是个大家耳熟能详的故事。实际上是女性推动了历史前进。顺便说一句，达尔文本人也毫不怀疑孔雀的尾巴在雌孔雀眼中是美丽的。他事实上用过“美”这个词。现在，把这些牢记在心，我们可以确定美的体验是进化用来激发和维持兴趣、魅力甚至是痴迷的方式之一，是为了鼓励我们做出最有利于生存和繁衍的决策。可以说美是自然用来间接运作的方式人们并不指望可以吃一个利于适应性的风景。也不会想吃你的孩子或你的爱人。因此，进化的方式是让他们看起来赞，让他们散发出一种吸引力，让你仅仅是看着他们就觉得超爽的。
en:The other great principle of evolutionis sexual selection,and it operates very differently.The peacock&#39;s magnificent tailis the most famous example of this.It did not evolve for natural survival.In fact, it goes against natural survival.No, the peacock&#39;s tailresults from the mating choicesmade by peahens.It&#39;s quite a familiar story.It&#39;s women who actually push history forward.Darwin himself, by the way,had no doubts that the peacock&#39;s tailwas beautiful in the eyes of the peahen.He actually used that word.Now, keeping these ideas firmly in mind,we can say that the experience of beautyis one of the ways that evolution hasof arousing and sustaininginterest or fascination,even obsession,in order to encourage ustoward making the most adaptive decisionsfor survival and reproduction.Beauty is nature&#39;s wayof acting at a distance,so to speak.I mean, you can&#39;t expect to eatan adaptively beneficial landscape.It would hardly do to eat your babyor your lover.So evolution&#39;s trickis to make them beautiful,to have them exert a kind of magnetismto give you the pleasure of simply looking at them.
时间： 6:51
zh-cn:想一下简单且重要的审美愉悦的来源，美丽风景的吸引力。全世界在完全不同的文化背景下的人们都倾向于某种特定的风景，这种风景恰巧与我们进化而来的更新纪大草原相似。今天这类风景在日历中、明信片中、高尔夫球场设计和公共公园中还有挂在起居室中的镶金画框中找到。从纽约到新西兰都能看到。这是一种有点像哈得逊河画派的风景画，描绘了开阔的原野上低低的草地点缀着些许树木。顺便说一下，通常这些树开叉离地面较低，也就是说，如果有紧急情况，你可以爬到这些树上。风景中会在视野可见范围内能直接看到水流，或是远处的黛青色暗示着水的存在，指明有动物或鸟类生命的迹象还有各种不同的绿色植物最后—还有这个—一条小径或是一条路，也许是河岸或是海岸，延伸向远方，几乎就是在邀请你沿着它走下去。这种类型的风景大家一致公认是很漂亮的，甚至生活在没有这种风景的人们也是这样认为的。理想的热带稀树大草原风景是最显著的例证之一，在世界各地的人都能找到有相似的视觉体验的美。
en:Consider briefly an important source of aesthetic pleasure,the magnetic pullof beautiful landscapes.People in very different culturesall over the worldtend to like a particular kind of landscape,a landscape that just happens to be similarto the pleistocene savannas where we evolved.This landscape shows up todayon calendars, on postcards,in the design of golf courses and public parksand in gold-framed picturesthat hang in living roomsfrom New York to New Zealand.It&#39;s a kind of Hudson River school landscapefeaturing open spacesof low grassesinterspersed with copses of trees.The trees, by the way, are often preferredif they fork near the ground,that is to say, if they&#39;re trees you could scramble upif you were in a tight fix.The landscape shows the presenceof water directly in view,or evidence of water in a bluish distance,indications of animal or bird lifeas well as diverse greeneryand finally — get this —a pathor a road,perhaps a riverbank or a shoreline,that extends into the distance,almost inviting you to follow it.This landscape type is regarded as beautiful,even by people in countriesthat don&#39;t have it.The ideal savanna landscapeis one of the clearest exampleswhere human beings everywherefind beautyin similar visual experience.
时间： 8:33
zh-cn:但有人也许会争辩，那是自然美。艺术的美又如何呢？那难道不是纯粹的文化影响吗？不，我不这么认为。再次，我们回到史前，聊聊史前的一些事。普遍认为，最早的人类艺术品是极富技巧的洞穴画，我们都知道从拉斯科洞窟到萧韦洞窟。萧韦洞窟大约有3万2千年的历史，其中还有同一时期的一些小的、写实的妇女和动物的雕像。但艺术和装饰技巧的存在实际上要更早些。漂亮的贝壳项链，看起来就像是艺术品和手工艺品，还有赭色的人体绘画，远在10万年前就存在了。
en:But, someone might argue,that&#39;s natural beauty.How about artistic beauty?Isn&#39;t that exhaustively cultural?No, I don&#39;t think it is.And once again, I&#39;d like to look back to prehistoryto say something about it.It is widely assumedthat the earliest human artworksare the stupendously skillful cave paintingsthat we all know from Lascauxand Chauvet.Chauvet cavesare about 32,000 years old,along with a few small, realistic sculpturesof women and animals from the same period.But artistic and decorative skillsare actually much older than that.Beautiful shell necklacesthat look like something you&#39;d see at an arts and crafts fair,as well as ochre body paint,have been foundfrom around 100,000 years ago.
时间： 9:33
zh-cn:但最酷的史前人工制品比这些还要早。我印象中是被称为阿舍利手斧的手工制品。最古老的石制工具是在东非的奥杜威峡谷发现的石斧。它的历史要追溯到两百五十万年前。这类粗糙的工具存在了数千个世纪，直到大约一百四十万年前，直立人开始打磨单个的薄石刀片，有时是椭圆形的，但通常，在我们眼中，是醒目的对称的尖叶子形或泪滴形。这些阿舍利手斧—名称取自法国的圣阿舍尔，这些手斧是十九世纪在那儿发现的—出土了数千件，散布在亚洲、欧洲和非洲，几乎遍布每一处直立人或者匠人到过的地方。这些手斧众多的数量表明它们不是用于屠宰动物。更复杂的是当你考虑到，不像其他更新世的工具，在这些手斧精美脆弱的刀刃边缘找不到任何磨损的痕迹。而且它们中的一些，无论用在屠宰什么动物上，都太大了点。它们的对称性，和引人注意的材料还有，尤其是，它们那精细的做工对我们来说非常美丽，即使在今天也是如此。
en:But the most intriguing prehistoric artifactsare older even than this.I have in mindthe so-called Acheulian hand axes.The oldest stone tools are choppersfrom the Olduvai Gorge in East Africa.They go back about two-and-a-half-million years.These crude toolswere around for thousands of centuries,until around 1.4 million years agowhen Homo erectusstarted shapingsingle, thin stone blades,sometimes rounded ovals,but often in what are to our eyesan arresting, symmetrical pointed leafor teardrop form.These Acheulian hand axes —they&#39;re named after St. Acheul in France,where finds were made in 19th century —have been unearthed in their thousands,scattered across Asia, Europe and Africa,almost everywhere Homo erectusand Homo ergaster roamed.Now, the sheer numbers of these hand axesshows that they can&#39;t have been madefor butchering animals.And the plot really thickens when you realizethat, unlike other pleistocene tools,the hand axes often exhibitno evidence of wearon their delicate blade edges.And some, in any event, are too bigto use for butchery.Their symmetry, their attractive materialsand, above all,their meticulous workmanshipare simply quite beautifulto our eyes, even today.
时间：11:11
zh-cn:因此这些古老的—我是说，它们是古老的，异域的，但同时它们也是我们熟悉的。这些人工制品的用途是什么？已有的最佳答案是它们就是已知最早的艺术品，从实用工具转变成迷人的审美对象，它们那优雅的形状和精湛的工艺让人凝望深思。手斧标志了人类历史上进化的进步—从实用工具到审美对象就好像达尔文主义者所说的适应性信号这就是说，它展示出了类似孔雀尾巴的用途，只是与毛发和羽毛不同，手斧是有意识的精巧制品。制作精良的手斧表明了富有魅力的个人品质—智力，精细的动作控制，规划能力，责任心有时还有能得到稀有材料的能力。经过千万代的传承，这样的技巧提供了制作者的地位并比那些能力较差的人赢得了更多的繁衍后代的优势。这是一句很古老的话了但是现在仍然能起作用—“让我们到我的洞里去，这样我就能给你看看我的手斧了。”
en:So what were these ancient —I mean, they&#39;re ancient, they&#39;re foreign,but they&#39;re at the same timesomehow familiar.What were these artifacts for?The best available answeris that they were literallythe earliest known works of art,practical tools transformedinto captivating aesthetic objects,contemplated both for their elegant shapeand their virtuoso craftsmanship.Hand axes markan evolutionary advance in human history —tools fashioned to functionas what Darwinians call &quot;fitness signals&quot; —that is to say, displaysthat are performanceslike the peacock&#39;s tail,except that, unlike hair and feathers,the hand axes are consciouslycleverly crafted.Competently made hand axesindicated desirable personal qualities —intelligence, fine motor control,planning ability,conscientiousnessand sometimes access to rare materials.Over tens of thousands of generations,such skills increased the statusof those who displayed themand gained a reproductive advantageover the less capable.You know, it&#39;s an old line,but it has been shown to work —&quot;Why don&#39;t you come up to my cave, so I can show you my hand axes?&quot;
时间：12:37
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:39
zh-cn:当然，有趣的是，我们无法确认这样的观点是如何传播的，因为制作这些物品的直立人没有语言。这很难理解，但这也是难以置信的事实。这一物品是在语言出现之前的5万年前至10万年前由原始人类祖先—直立人或匠人—制作出来的。延绵超过一百万年，手斧传统是人类和原始人历史上最长时间的艺术传统。£在手斧世代结束的时候，智人—最终以此来称呼他们—毫无疑问的找到了相互娱乐的新方法，谁知道呢，通过讲笑话，讲故事、跳舞或美发。是的， 美发— 我坚持这点。
en:Except, of course, what&#39;s interesting about thisis that we can&#39;t be sure how that idea was conveyed,because the Homo erectusthat made these objectsdid not have language.It&#39;s hard to grasp,but it&#39;s an incredible fact.This object was madeby a hominid ancestor,Homo erectus or Homo ergaster,between 50,000 and 100,000 yearsbefore language.Stretching over a million years,the hand axe traditionis the longest artistic traditionin human and proto-human history.By the end of the hand axe epic, Homo sapiens —as they were then called, finally —were doubtless finding new waysto amuse and amaze each otherby, who knows, telling jokes,storytelling, dancing, or hairstyling.Yes, hairstyling — I insist on that.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:对我们现代人来说，精湛的技术用于在小说和电影中创造想象中的世界，用音乐、绘画和舞蹈来表达强烈的情感。但尽管如此，这种古人的基本品质保留在我们的审美渴望中：我们在技巧性表现中发现的美。从拉斯科洞窟到罗浮宫再到卡耐基音乐厅，人类对艺术中的精湛技巧有种自发的永恒的欣赏。我们在绝世制作的事物中发现美。
en:For us moderns,virtuoso techniqueis used to create imaginary worldsin fiction and in movies,to express intense emotionswith music, painting and dance.But still,one fundamental traitof the ancestral personality persistsin our aesthetic cravings:the beauty we findin skilled performances.From Lascaux to the Louvreto Carnegie Hall,human beingshave a permanent innate tastefor virtuoso displays in the arts.We find beautyin something done well.
时间：14:24
zh-cn:因此，下次你经过陈列着切成泪滴形的漂亮宝石的珠宝店橱窗时，不要太肯定这只是你所接收到的文化影响了你告诉你闪闪发光的珠宝是美丽的。你的祖先也很喜欢这形状，并在制作这一形状所需技能中发现了美，这甚至发生在在他们能把他们的爱付诸文字之前。美是存在于观者的眼中么？不，它深深的在我们的思想中。它是一种天赋，来自于我们远祖的智慧和丰富的情感生活。我们对图像、对艺术中情感的表达、对音乐与夜空的美妙的强烈的反应将与我们同在，与我们的后代同在，只要人类还存在着。
en:So the next time you pass a jewelry shop windowdisplaying a beautifully cutteardrop-shaped stone,don&#39;t be so sureit&#39;s just your culture telling youthat that sparkling jewel is beautiful.Your distant ancestors loved that shapeand found beauty in the skill needed to make it,even beforethey could put their love into words.Is beauty in the eye of the beholder?No, it&#39;s deep in our minds.It&#39;s a gift handed down from the intelligent skillsand rich emotional livesof our most ancient ancestors.Our powerful reaction to images,to the expression of emotion in art,to the beauty of music, to the night sky,will be with us and our descendantsfor as long as the human race exists.
时间：15:14
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：15:16
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
