时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想请你们仅仅是，迅速地，稍微，向你右边的人点个头，然后再向你左边的人点个头。（笑声）注意啊！假如一个人是一箱蜂的话，去年冬天，(蜜蜂死亡的)可能性就像，你或你朝着点头的人中的一个去世了一样。大家知道吗！那可是相当多的蜜蜂。而且这才是(蜂群开始死亡的)第二年我们就已经损失了超过30%蜂群，或者我们看成在一个冬天内我们损失了30%的蜂群。
en:What I&#39;d like you to do is, just really quickly,is just, sort of, nod to the person on your right,and then nod to the person on your left.(Laughter)Now, chances are that over the last winter,if you had been a beehive, either you or one of the two peopleyou just nodded at would have died.Now, that&#39;s an awful lot of bees.And this is the second year in a row we have lost over 30 percentof the colonies, or we estimate we&#39;ve lost 30 percent of the colonies over the winter.
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:天哪！那是许多，许多蜜蜂，那损失很大。大部分损失是我们知道的原因造成的。我们知道这些蜂螨导致和造成了大量损失，我们还有新的问题就是去年我介绍过的蜂群崩溃失调症。我们看一张去年12月中央峡谷的一个小山顶上的照片。你能看到照片下部这些(房)外庭院，或者说临时庭院，2月份之前蜂群被运到这里，后被船送到杏树园中。在我到这儿以后，一位纪实作家来到这儿做了两个月的调查，他/她笔下这些不是蜂箱这里是摆满没有蜜蜂的空空的白盒子的(蜜蜂的)墓地。
en:Now, that&#39;s a lot, a lot of bees, and that&#39;s really important.And most of those losses are because of things we know.We know that there are these varroa mites that have introducedand caused a lot of losses, and we also have this new phenomenon,which I talked about last year, Colony Collapse Disorder.And here we see a picture on top of a hill in Central Valley last December.And below, you can see all these out yards,or temporary yards, where the colonies are brought in until February,and then they&#39;re shipped out to the almonds.And one documentary writer, who was here and looked at this two monthsafter I was here, described this not as beehivesbut as a graveyard, with these empty white boxes with no bees left in them.
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:现在，我来用两句话总结一下一年来的工作，告诉大家我们一直在努力寻找造成这种结果的原因。就我们所知蜜蜂好像是得了一场流感。并且这场流感已经在蜂群中泛滥。有的，不，实际上是一年中的大部分流感是由一种病毒引起的，这种病毒对我来说是新的或者说最近近才被我们鉴定的，它叫以色列急性麻痹病毒。这一名字的由来是因为以色列的一个家伙首先发现了它，但是他现在很后悔给这种病起了那个名字，因为，很显然，名字本身暗含着某种意思。但是我们认为这种病毒是无处不在的。另外，毋庸置疑，蜜蜂有时候也会感染其它病毒或其它流感，所以我们还在艰难研究的，还在令我们彻夜难眠的问题是为什么这些蜜蜂突然变得对这场流感没有抵抗力，为什么它们在这些其它疾病面前也如此不堪一击？但是我们还没有答案，虽然已经付出了很多时间来研究。我们认为这可能是多种因素共同造成的。我们从一个庞大而活跃的工作组得知，蜂巢中有很多种杀虫剂，不可思议的是，有时候最健康的蜂巢有最多杀虫的剂种类。我们发现的所有这些非常奇怪的现象令我们费解。
en:Now, I&#39;m going to sum up a year&#39;s worth of work in two sentencesto say that we have been trying to figure outwhat the cause of this is.And what we know is that it&#39;s as if the bees have caught a flu.And this flu has wiped through the population of bees.In some cases, and in fact in most cases in one year,this flu was caused by a new virus to us,or newly identified by us, called Israeli Acute Paralysis virus.It was called that because a guy in Israel first found it,and he now regrets profoundly calling it that disease, because,of course, there&#39;s the implication.But we think this virus is pretty ubiquitous.It&#39;s also pretty clear that the bees sometimes catch other virusesor other flus, and so the question we&#39;re still struggling with,and the question that keeps us up at night,is why have the bees suddenly become so susceptible to this flu,and why are they so susceptible to these other diseases?And we don&#39;t have the answer to that yet,and we spend a lot of time trying to figure that out.We think perhaps it&#39;s a combination of factors.We know from the work of a very large and dynamic working teamthat, you know, we&#39;re finding a lot of different pesticidesin the hive, and surprisingly, sometimes the healthiest hiveshave the most pesticides. And so we discover all thesevery strange things that we can&#39;t begin to understand.
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:因此我们想到综合研究蜂群健康状况。毫无疑问，如果损失了很多群蜂，养蜂人当然能很快进行补充。因此我们有能力从大量损失中恢复过来。大家知道，如果我们在冬天损失三分之一的奶牛，应急部队就要出动了。但是养蜂人怎么办呢，即使他们只剩下一个蜂群，他们还能将那个蜂群分成两个。然后，给没有蜂后的那半群蜂买一个蜂后。蜂后是邮寄来的；而且不管它是来自澳大利亚还是夏威夷还是佛罗里达，你都可以把它变成那半群蜂的蜂后。实际上，美国是第一个通过邮件运送蜂后的国家，而且，必须要通过邮件邮寄蜂后是邮政法的一部分这可以保证我们国家有足够的蜜蜂。如果你不只是想要一只蜂后，你还可以买到一包三磅重的蜜蜂。当然，邮局会很小心的处理你的三磅蜜蜂的。你可以把这包蜜蜂放入蜂箱中更新死光的蜂群。这意味着养蜂人非常擅长更新死光的蜂群，所以他们有承受那些损失的能力。所以即使我们每年都损失30%的蜂群，我们国家还依然会有相同数量的蜂群，
en:And so this opens up the whole idea of looking at colony health.Now of course, if you lose a lot of colonies,beekeepers can replace them very quickly.And that&#39;s why we&#39;ve been able to recover from a lot of loss.If we lost one in every three cows in the winter, you know,the National Guard would be out.But what beekeepers can do is, if they have one surviving colony,they can split that colony in two.And then the one half that doesn&#39;t have a queen, they can buy a queen.It comes in the mail; it can come from Australia or Hawaii or Florida,and you can introduce that queen.And in fact, America was the first countrythat ever did mail-delivery queens and in fact,it&#39;s part of the postal code that you have to deliver queens by mailin order to make sure that we have enough bees in this country.If you don&#39;t just want a queen, you can buy, actually,a three-pound package of bees, which comes in the mail, and of course,the Postal Office is always very concerned when they get,you know, your three-pound packages of bees.And you can install this in your hive and replace that dead-out.So it means that beekeepers are very good at replacing dead-outs,and so they&#39;ve been able to cover those losses.So even though we&#39;ve lost 30 percent of the colonies every year,the same number of colonies have existed in the country,at about 2.4 million colonies.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:大约2,400,000群蜜蜂。虽然如此，那些损失在很多方面还是惨痛的，其中一方面就是养蜂人的损失。首先说说养蜂人是很重要的，因为他们将会是你遇到的最让人着迷的人之一。如果这儿有一群养蜂人，你会(从中)找到各种各样的人，从来福枪协会会员到圣-佛朗西斯科后院中看起来怪怪的的猪倌儿。（笑声）他们在同一屋檐下，他们都很投入而且相处的很好，他们是因为喜欢蜜蜂而到一起的。现在谈谈，养蜂人中另外一部分人他们是商业养蜂人，也就是那些仅靠养蜂来养家糊口的养蜂人。他们将可能是你碰到的人当中一些最独立、最顽强、最感性、最富创造性的人。他们很迷人，而且全世界的商业养蜂人都是那样的。
en:Now, those losses are tragic on many fronts,and one of those fronts is for the beekeeper.And it&#39;s really important to talk about beekeepers first,because beekeepers are among the most fascinating people you&#39;ll ever meet.If this was a group of beekeepers, you would have everyonefrom the card-carrying NRA member who&#39;s, you know, live free or die,to the, you know, the self-expressed quirky San Franciscobackyard pig farmer.(Laughter)And you get all of these people in the same room,and they&#39;re all engaged and they&#39;re getting along,and they&#39;re all there because of the passion for bees.Now, there&#39;s another part of that communitywhich are the commercial beekeepers,the ones who make their livelihood from beekeeping alone.And these tend to be some of the most independent, tenacious,intuitive, you know, inventive people you will ever meet.They&#39;re just fascinating. And they&#39;re like that all over the world.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:今年早些时候我很荣幸在海地(Haitii)工作了两周。海地，如果你去过那里，你就知道他简直是个悲剧。我是说，即使有100条理由解释为什么海地是那样贫穷，它也没有理由那样的破败不堪。但是你会碰到这个养蜂人，我在那儿遇到了他，他是我曾经遇到过的最有知识的养蜂人中的一个。没受过正规教育，，但是却有很多知识。我们的一个项目需要蜂蜡；他非常能干，他做出了我所见过的最好的一块儿蜂蜡，使用了牛粪、锡罐和他的盖头，他把盖头当作纱网使用，(他)就在这片草甸上(做蜂蜡块的)。他的技术让人很受启发。
en:I had the privilege of working in Haiti just for two weeks earlier this year.And Haiti, if you&#39;ve ever been there, is just a tragedy.I mean, there may be 100 explanationsfor why Haiti is the impoverished nation it is,but there is no excuse to see that sort of squalor.But you meet this beekeeper, and I met this beekeeper here,and he is one of the most knowledgeable beekeepers I&#39;ve ever met.No formal education, but very knowledgeable.We needed beeswax for a project we were working on; he was so capable,he was able to render the nicest block of beeswax I have ever seenfrom cow dung, tin cans and his veil, which he used as a screening,right in this meadow. And so that ingenuity is inspiring.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:我们还有戴维-海肯伯格(Dave Hackenberg)，他是蜂群崩溃失调症的代表人物。是他首先发现了蜂群崩溃失调症并敲响了警钟。他很早就使用这些卡车沿着海岸线上下转运这些蜜蜂。虽然许多人认为转运蜜蜂不好，但是转运蜜蜂已经有数千年的历史了。古埃及人就曾就用筏子沿着尼罗河上下转运蜜蜂，这说明运动的蜜蜂大军一点儿也不新鲜。蜂群崩溃失调症让我们真正忧心的原因之一是更新那些死亡的蜂群要花费大量的钱财。我们有能力更新一年，也许还能连着更新两年。但是如果损失50-80%的蜂群，连续三年就垮了。我们确实很担心损失掉这部分产业。
en:We also have Dave Hackenberg, who is the poster child of CCD.He&#39;s the one who first identified this conditionand raised the alarm bells.And he has a history of these trucks,and he&#39;s moved these bees up and down the coast.And a lot of people talk about trucks and moving bees,and that being bad, but we&#39;ve done that for thousands of years.The ancient Egyptians used to move bees up and down the Nile on rafts,so this idea of a movable bee force is not new at all.And one of our real worries with Colony Collapse Disorderis the fact that it costs so much money to replace those dead-out colonies.And you can do that one year in a row,you may be able to do it two years in a row.But if you&#39;re losing 50 percent to 80 percent of your colonies,you can&#39;t survive three years in a row. And we&#39;re really worriedabout losing this segment of our industry.
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:因为养蜂业在很多方面都很重要，其中之一就是在农业上。这些迁徙的养蜂人是美国最后的游牧者。大家知道，他们带着蜂箱，一年内搬一次或两次家。你们看佛罗里达州，达迪市(Dade city)是宾夕法尼亚州养蜂人的去处。然后从达迪市(Dade city)顺着这条路往下20英里是哥如福兰德(Grovelan)，那里是所有威斯康辛州养蜂人的去处。要是你二月份在中央峡谷，请在早上10点去这间咖啡馆，店名是凯西和凯特之家。那里是所有养蜂人在忙了一夜将蜜蜂移到杏树林他们在那里一边吃早餐一边互相抱怨。那种经历很棒，我真的鼓励大家那时候去那个小餐馆，因为那是必不可少的美国体验。我们再来看那些家庭，那些游牧家庭，从父母到子女都在忙着侍弄蜜蜂。他们不喜欢求人，但却最乐于助人。比如有人因为卡车大修而损失了所有蜜蜂，养蜂人们都会过来送给他20群蜂帮他弥补损失。所以，我觉得这是一个很有活力、历史而且让人振奋的社区，很值得交往。
en:And that&#39;s important for many fronts,and one of them is because of that culture that&#39;s in agriculture.And these migratory beekeepers are the last nomads of America.You know, they pick up their hives;they move their families once or twice in a year.And if you look at Florida, in Dade City, Florida,that&#39;s where all the Pennsylvania beekeepers go.And then 20 miles down the road is Groveland,and that&#39;s where all the Wisconsin beekeepers go.And if you&#39;re ever in Central Valley in February, you go to this caféat 10 o&#39;clock in the morning, Kathy and Kate&#39;s.And that&#39;s where all the beekeepers come after a night of moving beesinto the almond groves.They all have their breakfastand complain about everyone right there. And it&#39;s a great experience,and I really encourage you to drop in at that diner during that time,because that&#39;s quite essential American experience.And we see these families, these nomadic families, you know,father to son, father to son, and these guys are hurting.And they&#39;re not people who like to ask for help,although they are the most helpful people ever.If there&#39;s one guy who loses all his bees because of a truck overhaul,everyone pitches in and gives 20 hivesto help him replace those lost colonies.And so, it&#39;s a very dynamic, and I think,historic and exciting community to be involved with.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:当然，蜜蜂真正的重要性并不是蜂蜜。虽然我大力支持你们使用蜂蜜。因为它是最“道德”的甜味剂，它是有生命的好甜味剂。而且据估计差不多在我们的每三口食物中就有一口是直接或是间接由蜜蜂传粉的。现在，我想用事实证明它，看一下我昨天的早餐：一点红莓汁、一些水果和一些格兰诺拉麦片，我也意识到我应该吃全麦面包，但是，面包加果酱还有一些咖啡，如果我们把那些食物拿走只有杏肉我没有从格兰诺拉麦片中拿出去—如果我们拿走那些直接或间接由蜜蜂授粉的东西，我们的餐盘上就没有多少东西了。所以，如果没有蜜蜂，我们好像还不至于挨饿，但毫无疑问的是我们的食谱将会缩小。人们说花是蜜蜂的生命之源，而蜜蜂是花爱的使者。
en:Of course, the real importance for bees is not the honey.And although I highly encourage you, all use honey.I mean, it&#39;s the most ethical sweetener,and you know, it&#39;s a dynamic and fun sweetener.But we estimate that about one in three bites of food we eatis directly or indirectly pollinated by honeybees.Now, I want to just illustrate that in the factthat if we look at the breakfast I had yesterday morning —a little cranberry juice, some fruits, some granola,I should have had whole wheat bread, I realized, but you know,jam on my Wonderbread, and some coffee —and had we taken out all those ingredients,— except for the almonds I wasn&#39;t going to pick out from the granola —if we had taken out all those ingredientsthe bees had indirectly or directly pollinated,we wouldn&#39;t have much on our plate.So if we did not have bees, it&#39;s not like we would starve,but clearly our diet would be diminished.It&#39;s said that for bees, the flower is the fountain of life,and for flowers bees are the messengers of love.
时间： 9:07
zh-cn:说的真是太好了，因为蜜蜂的确是花的“性工作者”。它们，要知道，它们的服务是有偿的。它们“收取”花粉和花蜜，才来把雄性配子，也就是花粉， 从一朵花传给另一朵花。有些花不能自我受精。就是说它们不能……，同一朵花的花粉不能使自己的受精。如果在一个苹果园里，你有10行同一个品种的苹果树，然后还有一棵苹果树它有不同的花粉型。蜜蜂会非常忠诚。当它们出去传粉或从某种花上采集花粉时，它们会专门针对那种植物来帮助它结果。当然，它们生下来就是搬运花粉的。它们在身上积累静电，这样花粉就会跳到它们身上，它们就帮着把那个花粉丛一朵花带到另一朵花。
en:And that&#39;s a really great expression, because really,bees are the sex workers for flowers. They are, you know —they get paid for their services.They get paid by pollen and nectar,to move that male sperm, the pollen, from flower to flower.And there are flowers that are self-infertile. That means they can&#39;t —the pollen in their bloom can&#39;t fertilize themselves.So in an apple orchard, for instance, you&#39;ll have rows of 10 applesof one variety, and then you have another apple treethat&#39;s a different type of pollen.And bees are very faithful.When they&#39;re out pollinating or gathering pollen from one flower,they stay to that crop exclusively, in order to help generate.And of course, they&#39;re made to carry this pollen.They build up a static electric charge and the pollen jumps on themand helps spread that pollen from bloom to bloom.
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:尽管如此，蜜蜂只是少数派。蜜蜂的老家不是美国；它们是被殖民者带来的。实际上蜂的种类比哺乳动物和鸟类加起来种类还多。单单在宾夕法尼亚州，我们已经对蜂类尽行了150年的调查，并且最近这三年的调查非常详细。在宾夕法尼亚州我们鉴定的蜂类已经超过400种。其中32种是在1950年以后鉴定或发现的。那可能是因为以前采集方法不当，但是，我想这确实让人觉得传粉者们出了什么问题。这些蜂类们让人着迷。
en:However, honeybees are a minority.Honeybees are not native to America; they were introducedwith the colonialists.And there are actually more species of beesthan there are mammals and birds combined.In Pennsylvania alone, we have been surveying bees for 150 years,and very intensely in the last three years.We have identified over 400 species of bees in Pennsylvania.Thirty-two species have not been identified or found in the state since 1950.Now, that could be because we haven&#39;t been sampling right,but it does, I think, suggest that something&#39;s wrongwith the pollinator force. And these bees are fascinating.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:上面是熊蜂。熊蜂是群居性的，但是它们不是真正的社会性昆虫，因为只有蜂后活过冬天。还有汗蜂，它们就像是飞来飞去的小宝石。它们就像小苍蝇一样到处飞。另外我们还有另外一类蜂，叫做偷寄生蜂，它还有个很有创意的名字：坏脾气的谋杀……我在想那个词呢？听众：蜂?丹尼斯-范-恩格勒斯多普(Dennis vanEngelsdorp):蜂!是的，谢谢！（笑声）这些蜂的做法就是守株待兔。这些独居蜂，它们在地面或者树枝上打好洞，收集来花粉做成花粉球，然后在花粉球上产一枚卵。那么，这些呆在洞外面的谋杀蜂，等到蜂妈妈飞走后跑到洞里吃掉里面的卵，并在那儿产下自己的卵。 所以它们是不劳而获。然而，实际上，如果你发现周围有这些偷寄生蜂就说明环境是健康的，因为它们是食物链顶端的蜂类。目前，我们有一份红色名录记录着我们担心可能已经消失了的传粉动物种类，并且在那份名单的开头有很多种这些偷寄生蜂，和这些熊蜂。并且，如果你们生活在西海岸，去浏览一下这些网站，它们在找人去寻找一些种类的熊蜂，因为我们认为某些种类已经灭绝了。 有些种群已经变小了。
en:We have bumblebees on the top.And bumblebees are what we call eusocial: they&#39;re not truly social,because only the queen is, over winter.We also have the sweat bees, and these are little gems flying around.They&#39;re like tiny little flies and they fly around.And then you have another type of bee, which we call kleptoparasites,which is a very fancy way of saying, bad-minded, murdering —what&#39;s the word I&#39;m looking for? Murdering —Audience: Bee?Dennis vanEngelsdorp: Bee. Okay, thanks.(Laughter)What these bees do is, they sit there. These solitary bees,they drill a hole in the ground or drill a hole in a branch,and they collect pollen and make it into a ball,and they lay an egg on it.Well, these bees hang out at that hole,and they wait for that mother to fly away, they go in, eat the egg,and lay their own egg there. So they don&#39;t do any work.And so, in fact, if you know you have these kleptoparasitic bees,you know that your environment is healthy,because they&#39;re top-of-the-food-chain bees.And in fact, there is now a red list of pollinatorsthat we&#39;re worried have disappeared, and on top of that listare a lot of these kleptoparasites, but also these bumblebees.And in fact, if you guys live on the West Coast,go to these websites here, and they&#39;re really looking for peopleto look for some of these bumblebees, because we thinksome have gone extinct. Or some, the population has declined.
时间：12:02
zh-cn:所以有麻烦的并不仅仅是蜜蜂，我们对这些本土的传粉者或者我们人类以外的东西都缺乏了解。当然，蜂类并不是这里唯一重要的要素。还有其它传粉动物，比如蝙蝠，蝙蝠也有麻烦了。我很庆幸我是个“蜂人”而不是“蝙蝠人”，因为没有资金支持蝙蝠问题的研究。但是蝙蝠的死亡速度非常快。白鼻子综合症已经消灭了成群成群的蝙蝠。如果纽约的一个山洞里的15,000只蝙蝠，只剩下1,000只了。 那(蝙蝠死亡的速度)就好像是圣-佛朗西斯科的人口在三年内变成这个县城人口的一半。那是多么惊人啊。 我们没钱去解决那个问题。
en:And so it&#39;s not just honeybees that are in trouble,but we don&#39;t understand these native pollinatorsor all those other parts of our community.And of course, bees are not the only important factor here.There are other animals that pollinate, like bats,and bats are in trouble too.And I&#39;m glad I&#39;m a bee man and not a bat man,because there&#39;s no money to research the bat problems.And bats are dying at an extraordinary rate.White-nose syndrome has wiped out populations of bats.If there&#39;s a cave in New York that had 15,000 bats in it,and there are 1,000 left. That&#39;s like San Franciscobecoming the population of half of this county in three years.And so that&#39;s incredible. And there&#39;s no money to do that.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:但是我高兴因为我想我们知道所有这些情况的原因，那就是NDD：大自然缺失症。也就是，我觉得，我们的社会，我们忽视了和大自然的联系。我想如果重新我们亲近大自然，我们就会有资源和兴趣来解决这些问题。我认为有一个简单的方法就可以治疗NDD。那就是，种植草甸而不是草坪。我觉得我们已经失去了和大自然的联系，而这是一种把我们重新和周围的环境联系起来的好方法。不久前我曾有幸在一片草甸旁生活了一小段时间，非常迷人。让我们审视一下草坪的历史，那简直是个悲剧。二三百年前草坪曾经象征荣誉和地位，所以那时候只有很富有的人才能享有那些绿色的草坪，实际上，是绿色沙漠：因为它们没有一点儿生机。2001年，美国人在草坪上使用的杀虫剂占杀虫剂总使用量的11%。我们释放的温室气体中有5%来源于草坪修剪。
en:But I&#39;m glad to say that I think we know the causeof all these conditions, and that cause is NDD:Nature Deficit Disorder.And that is that I think that what we have in our society is,we forgot our connection with nature.And I think if we reconnect to nature,we&#39;ll be able to have the resources and that interestto solve these problems.And I think that there is an easy cure for NDD.And that is, make meadows and not lawns.And I think we have lost our connection,and this is a wonderful way of reconnecting to our environment.I&#39;ve had the privilege of living by a meadowfor the last little while, and it is terribly engaging.And if we look at the history of lawns, it&#39;s actually rather tragic.It used to be, two, three hundred years ago,that a lawn was a symbol of prestige,and so it was only the very rich that could keep these greenactually, deserts: they&#39;re totally sterile.Americans spent, in 2001 — 11 percent of all pesticide use was done on lawns.Five percent of our greenhouse gases are produced by mowing our lawns.
时间：13:54
zh-cn:所以我们花费了大量的资源来养护我们的草坪 — 那些没用的生物系统。所以我们需要重新审视这一做法。告诉你们，事实上白宫前面被用来养羊以资助第一次世界大战，那可能是个不错的主意；不是个坏主意。我说这些可不是因为我完全反对修剪草坪。我觉得在小范围内种植草坪兴许还有些好处，并且应该受到鼓励。但是我也要再强调一下刚才我的某些观点，因为拥有一片草甸或者居住在草甸旁边是完全不一样的。亲近草甸真的很棒。4年时间这些乳草植物已经在我的草甸里长大了。除了能观赏不同的植物或者来拜访这些花的昆虫，欣赏它们，告诉你们，我们还听说你还能和葡萄酒联系起来，你就有了一个不断长大并散发出这些不同的芳香的朋友。并且这个朋友，这种友谊永远不会干涸。当你喝下这个葡萄酒你也永远不会离开那个朋友。请支持大家那么做。
en:And so it&#39;s incredible the amount of resources we&#39;ve spentkeeping our lawns, which are these useless biosystems.And so we need to rethink this idea.In fact, you know, the White Houseused to have sheep in front in order to help fundthe war effort in World War I, which probably is not a bad idea;it wouldn&#39;t be a bad idea.I want to say this not because I&#39;m opposed completely to mowing lawns.I think that there is perhaps some advantage to keeping lawnsat a limited scale, and I think we&#39;re encouraged to do that.But I also want to reinforce some of the ideas we&#39;ve heard here,because having a meadow or living by a meadow is transformational.That it is amazing that connection we can have with what&#39;s there.These milkweed plants have grown up in my meadowover the last four years. Add to watch the different plants,or insects, that come to these flowers, to watch that —and we&#39;ve heard about, you know, this relationship you can have with wine,this companion you can have as it maturesand as it has these different fragrances.And this is a companion,and this is a relationship that never dries up.You never run out of that companion as you drink this wine, too.And I encourage you to look at that.
时间：15:04
zh-cn:虽然并不是每个人都有草甸，或者可供改变为草甸的草坪，那么你当然可以在花盆里种一小片草甸。很明显蜂类可以成为通向其它事物的一扇门。所以我不是说你应该在花盆中种一片草甸，而是在草甸里“种”一个花盆。你们还可以组建这种很好的城市团体或者楼顶养蜂人团体，这些养蜂人生活在，这些养蜂人生活在巴黎。每个人都应该养上一窝蜂，每个人都应该养上一窝蜂，因为那是最有意思的事情。所以如果我们想治愈我们的NDD或者大自然缺乏症我觉得养蜂是个很好的方法。养一窝蜜蜂，种一片草甸，体验那些生命回到你的生活中。如果那样的话，如果我们这么做，我想我们可以创造，我们可以保证我们的未来 -我们更加美好的未来-有养蜂人、蜂和那些草甸。那个过程 –那个发生在你种植草甸、饲养蜜蜂或者欣赏那些本土蜂类的时候发生转变的过程- 会非常非常的令人兴奋。我希望你们能经历那些并且有一天能向我谈论那些。好！非常感谢大家光临。非常感谢。
en:Now, not all of us have meadows,or lawns that we can convert, and so you can always, of course,grow a meadow in a pot.Bees apparently, can be the gateway to, you know, other things.So I&#39;m not saying that you should plant a meadow of pot,but a pot in a meadow.But you can also have this great community of cityor building-top beekeepers, these beekeepers that live —This is in Paris where these beekeepers live.And everyone should open a beehive,because it is the most amazing, incredible thing.And if we want to cure ourselves of NDD, or Nature Deficit Disorder,I think this is a great way of doing it.Get a beehive and grow a meadow,and watch that life come back into your life.And so with that, I think that what we can do, if we do this,we can make sure that our future — our more perfect future —includes beekeepers and it includes bees and it includes those meadows.And that journey — that journey of transformation that occursas you grow your meadow and as you keep your beesor you watch those native bees there — is an extremely exciting one.And I hope that you experience itand I hope you tell me about it one day.So thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much.
