时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是个视觉艺术家，也是塑料污染联盟的创始人之一。过去20年，我一直参与塑料包的工作，我艺术创作的原材料是裁制和缝合塑料。让塑料变为平面和立体型艺术，雕塑和艺术装置。在与塑料打交道的八年之后，我的一些作品开始开裂碎成许多小塑料块。我想，“好极了。塑料就像我们人类一样短命。”
en:I&#39;m a visual artist,and I&#39;m also one of the co-founders of the Plastic Pollution Coalition.I&#39;ve been working with plastic bags,which I cut up and sew back together as my primary material for my artworkfor the last 20 years.I turn them into two and three-dimensional piecesand sculptures and installations.Upon working with the plastic, after about the first eight years,some of my work started to fissureand break down into smaller little bits of plastic.And I thought, &quot;Great.It&#39;s ephemeral just like us.&quot;
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:我自学进一步深入了解塑料，我的确了解到塑料是个坏材料。塑料碎成许多小块，但它还是塑料，这很糟糕。我们发现有很多塑料漂浮于大海。然而在过去的几年，我知道太平洋垃圾环流和垃圾漩涡。我第一反应—我想这也是多数人的第一反应，知道这之后—“喔，我的上帝！我们要去那里并清理这些塑料。”所以我提议一只货船，两只退役拖网渔船，一台起重机，一台削片机和一台冷压机出海。我计划是航行到垃圾环流带，提高对于此污染的高度重视，开始回收塑料，切割它变成小片，然后冷压变成塑料块，它可能被用来作为欠发达社区的建筑材料。
en:Upon educating myself a little further about plastics,I actually realized this was a bad thing.It&#39;s a bad thing that plastic breaks down into smaller little bits,because it&#39;s always still plastic.And what we&#39;re findingis that a lot of it is in the marine environment.I then, in the last few years,learned about the Pacific garbage patch and the gyre.And my initial reaction —and I think this is a lot of people&#39;s first reactionto learning about it —is, &quot;Oh my God!We&#39;ve got to go out there and clean this thing up.&quot;So I actually developed a proposalto go out with a cargo shipand two decommissioned fishing trawlers,a crane, a chipping machineand a cold-molding machine.And my intention was to go out to the gyre,raise awareness about this issueand begin to pick up the plastic,chip it into little bits and cold mold it into bricksthat could potentially be used as building materialsin underdeveloped communities.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:我同那些曾去过垃圾环流带的人们谈过，他们也曾研究过塑料污染对海洋环境的污染，交谈之后，我开始意识到海上清理塑料相比起全球每天产生塑料的生产量就如大海捞针一样，我必须回过头想想，要展望更大的蓝图。真正的解决办法就是：我们需要在源头找到解决方法。我们需要切断一次性使用塑料和一次性塑料的源头，使得它们在全球范围内每天不会再进入大海。
en:I began talking with peoplewho actually had been out to the gyreand were studying the plastic problem in the marine environmentand upon doing so,I realized actually that cleaning it upwould be a very small drop in the bucketrelative to how much is being generatedevery day around the world,and that actually I needed to back up and look at the bigger picture.And the bigger picture is:we need to find a way to turn off the faucet.We need to cut the spigotof single-use and disposable plastics,which are entering the marine environment every dayon a global scale.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:看看这个，我也知道我非常生气。我并不只关心你也可能想象到的在太平洋中部我们现在所知的，权威数据是，11个垃圾塑料环流带，遍及世界五大海洋。我不仅仅是关心塑料环流带，也包括超市的塑料包围圈。我要去超市，所有事物都是塑料包装。所有饮料都是塑料包装，甚至健康的有机市场。我也关注在冰箱的塑料，还有塑料以及滤取塑料的毒素被我们吃下和吸收到我们身体里。
en:So in looking at that, I also realized that I was really angry.I wasn&#39;t just concerned about plasticthat you&#39;re trying to imagine out in the middle of the Pacific Ocean —of which I have learned there are now11 gyres, potentially, of plasticin five major oceans in the world.It&#39;s not just that gyre of plastic that I&#39;m concerned about —it&#39;s the gyre of plastic in the supermarket.I&#39;d go to the supermarket and all of my food is packaged in plastic.All of my beverages are packaged in plastic,even at the health food market.I&#39;m also concerned about the plastic in the refrigerator,and I&#39;m concerned about the plastic and the toxins that leach from plasticinto us and into our bodies.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:我和其他的一群人们都关注这个塑料污染问题，组建了塑料污染联盟。我们为解决这问题开始许多活动，它们中的一些是非常简单的。其中一个是：在大海，我们发现百分80到百分90海洋废弃物是塑料，然后我们为什么不称其为：塑料污染。再循环。关于可持续和再循环的环保想法的书籍都是类似的观点。大家扔东西到垃圾桶里，但是从来没有再想过此事。现实是什么呢？在美国，塑料垃圾回收率少于百分之七。大家想实际看看，特别当塑料变成塑料瓶，绝大多数塑料瓶仅被降级回收，或者焚烧，或运到中国。当一个塑料瓶可以被重制成一个塑料瓶，或者重被使用时，正是被降级回收，使得塑料瓶被制成小塑料体，使得一个塑料瓶不再被制成塑料瓶回收利用。
en:So I came together with a group of other peoplewho were all looking at this issue,and we created the Plastic Pollution Coalition.We have many initiatives that we&#39;re working on,but some of them are very basic.One is: if 80 to 90 percentof what we&#39;re finding in the ocean —of the marine debris that we&#39;re finding in the ocean — is plastic,then why don&#39;t we call it what it is.It&#39;s plastic pollution.Recycling — everybody kind of ends their booksabout being sustainable and greening with the idea of recycling.You put something in a bin and you don&#39;t have to think about it again.What is the reality of that?In the United States, less than seven percent of our plastics are recycled.And if you really look into it,particularly when it comes to plastic bottles,most of it is only down-cycled,or incinerated, or shipped to China.It is down-cycled and turned into lesser things,while a glass bottle can be a glass bottle againor can be used again —a plastic bottle can never be a plastic bottle again.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:对我们而言，这是个重大问题。我们关注，并让人们思考的另一件事是我们在原本3个R原则前，Reduce（减量）、Reuse（复用）、Recycle（再生），加了第四个R原则，它就是拒绝使用（Refuse）。无论何时，拒绝使用一次性使用塑料和即丢塑料。有替代品的使用。其中一些是非常老套。我自己现在收集这些很酷的耐热玻璃容器，使用这些而替换高兴派和特百惠派塑料容器来储存食物。我知道我这样做有利于我自己和我的家庭。我们选择使用不锈钢瓶和玻璃瓶是很容易的，你如果要出门，记得带不锈钢瓶，让它灌满水，或者滤过水，而不要购买塑料瓶装水。
en:So this is a big issue for us.Another thing that we&#39;re looking at and asking people to think aboutis we&#39;ve added a fourth Ronto the frontof the &quot;Reduce, Reuse, Recycle,&quot; three R&#39;s,and that is refuse.Whenever possible, refuse single-use and disposable plastics.Alternatives exist;some of them are very old-school.I myself am now collecting these cool Pyrex containersand using those instead of Glad and Tupperware containersto store food in.And I know that I am doing a serviceto myself and my family.It&#39;s very easy to pick up a stainless-steel bottleor a glass bottle,if you&#39;re traveling and you&#39;ve forgotten to bring your stainless-steel bottleand fill that up with water or filtered water,versus purchasing plastic bottled water.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:我猜我想要告诉大家的是我知道你们大家关于此塑料污染知道得很多漂在大海上的塑料是个严重的问题，但这是我们做为消费者自身产生的问题，我们也能自身解决这问题。我们通过提高这问题的意识，教导人们选择可替换性产品，能够解决这问题。所以无论何时，请选择使用可替换性产品，拒绝使用一次性使用塑料和即丢塑料。我们可以切断源头，阻止这塑料污染到我们的海洋里，通过如上4R行动，拯救我们的海洋，拯救我们的家园，拯救我们自己。
en:I guess what I want to say to everybody here —and I know that you guys know a lot about this issue —is that this is a huge problem in the oceans,but this is a problem that we&#39;ve created as consumersand we can solve.We can solve this by raising awareness of the issueand teaching people to choose alternatives.So whenever possible, to choose alternativesto single-use plastics.We can cut the stem — tide the stem of thisinto our oceansand in doing so,save our oceans, save our planet, save ourselves.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you. (Applause)
