时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想向大家展示建筑是如何帮助我们改善了家乡人们的生活并且打开了希望之窗
en:I would like to show you howarchitecture has helpedto change the life of my communityand has opened opportunities to hope.
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:我是土生土长的布基纳法索人据世界银行的分析称，布基纳法索是世界上最贫困的国家之一那么生长于这样的环境是怎样的感觉呢？我本人就是一个例子我出生在一个叫甘多的村庄甘多那时没有电没有清洁的饮用水，也没有学校然而我的父亲希望我去学习读书和写字因此，我不得不离开我的家人在我7岁的时候，移居到城市远离我的村庄无法和我的家人联络在这个城市我坐在这样的教室里和超过150个孩子共同度过了6年在这期间，某天我去上学发现我的一名同班同学去世了
en:I am a native of Burkina Faso.According to the World Bank, Burkina Fasois one of the poorest countries in the world,but what does it look liketo grow up in a place like that?I am an example of that.I was born in a little village called Gando.In Gando, there was no electricity,no access to clean drinking water, and no school.But my father wanted meto learn how to read and write.For this reason, I had to leave my familywhen I was seven and to stay in a cityfar away from my villagewith no contact with my family.In this place I satin a class like thatwith more than 150 other kids,and for six years.In this time, it just happened to me to come to schoolto realize that my classmate died.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:今天，一切都没有怎么改变我们村仍然没有电力供应布基纳法索的人们仍在不断死去如何得到清洁的饮用水仍然是个很大的问题
en:Today, not so much has changed.There is still no electricity in my village.People still are dying in Burkina Faso,and access to clean drinking wateris still a big problem.
时间： 1:55
zh-cn:我很幸运。我很幸运因为如果你生长在那样的地方这就是生命的现实但是我很幸运我有奖学金我能够去德国留学
en:I had luck. I was lucky, because this is a fact of lifewhen you grow up in a place like that.But I was lucky.I had a scholarship.I could go to Germany to study.
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:所以现在，我想我不需要向你们解释今天我能站在你们面前，是多么的荣幸从我居住的布基纳法索的村庄甘多到德国的柏林，成为一名建筑师这是一个巨大的跨越但是，我还能多做些什么呢？从我还是一名学生起，我就希望为更多甘多的孩子创造更好的机会我想用我的技能来修建一所学校但是，当你还只是个学生，并且没有钱，这要如何实现呢？恩，是的，我开始设计图纸并且筹集资金筹款并不是件容易的事我甚至建议我的同班同学少花点钱在咖啡和香烟上而把钱用来支援我的学校项目两年之后奇迹出现了我筹集到5万美元
en:So now, I suppose,I don&#39;t need to explain to you how great a privilegeit is for me to be standing before you today.From Gando, my home village in Burkina Faso,to Berlin in Germany to become an architectis a big, big step.But what to do with this privilege?Since I was a student, I wanted to open upbetter opportunities to other kids in Gando.I just wanted to use my skills and build a school.But how do you do it when you&#39;re still a studentand you don&#39;t have money?Oh yes, I started to make drawingsand asked for money.Fundraising was not an easy task.I even asked my classmatesto spend less money on coffee and cigarettes,but to sponsor my school project.In real wonder, two years later,I was able to collect 50,000 U.S. dollars.
时间： 3:29
zh-cn:当我回到甘多的家带去了这个好消息大家欣喜若狂但是当他们知道了我打算用黏土建造学校的时候他们震惊了
en:When I came home to Gandoto bring the good news,my people were over the moon,but when they realizedthat I was planning to use clay,they were shocked.
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:“粘土建筑是无法支撑过雨季的可是弗朗西斯希望我们用粘土来建一所学校难道这就是他花了那么长时间在欧洲学习而不是和我们一起，在田间劳作的原因吗？”
en:&quot;A clay building is not able to stand a rainy season,and Francis wants us to use it and build a school.Is this the reason why he spent so much timein Europe studyinginstead of working in the field with us?&quot;
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:我们的村民一直以来使用粘土搭建建筑但他们从来没见对粘土进行创新改造所以我需要说服每个人我开始和社区的人们沟通说服每个人然后我们就可以开始工作了女人，男人村里的每个人都参与了建造过程我使用了传统的方法以粘土地面为例，年轻的男子这样站着捶打上好几个小时然后他们的母亲加入进来她们用这个姿势捶打几个小时，不时地加水再捶打接着负责抛光的人们来了他们花费数个小时，用石块给地面抛光然后你会看到完成品非常光滑，就像婴儿的屁股（笑声）它可没有修过图 （笑声）这就是社区居民们建造的学校墙壁完全是由甘多当地压缩的粘土块制成屋顶结构是用廉价的钢条制成通常隐藏在混凝土内部教室的天花板是由上述两种材料共同制成的
en:My people build all the time with clay,but they don&#39;t see any innovation with mud.So I had to convince everybody.I started to speak with the community,and I could convince everybody,and we could start to work.And the women, the men,everybody from the village,was part of this building process.I was allowed to use even traditional techniques.So clay floor for example,the young men come and stand like that, beating,hours for hours,and then their mothers came,and they are beating in this position,for hours, giving water and beating.And then the polishers come.They start polishing it with a stone for hours.And then you have this result,very fine, like a baby bottom.(Laughter)It&#39;s not photoshopped. (Laughter)This is the school, built with the community.The walls are totally made outof compressed clay blocks from Gando.The roof structure is madewith cheap steel barsnormally hiding inside concrete.And the classroom, the ceiling is madeout of both of them used together.
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:在这所学校，一个简单的概念就是让教室是个舒适的地方别忘了，学校在布基纳法索，最热的时候有45 度因此需配有简单的通风系统我想让教室适合教学和学习今天，这个项目经过12年 ，仍处于其最佳状态孩子们非常喜爱它
en:In this school, there was a simple idea:to create comfort in a classroom.Don&#39;t forget, it can be 45 degrees in Burkina Faso,so with simple ventilation,I wanted to make the classroomgood for teaching and learning.And this is the project today,12 years old, still in best condition.And the kids, they love it.
时间： 6:08
zh-cn:对我和村民们来说这项目是一个巨大的成功它为我们在甘多做更多的项目创造了更多机会所以我做了很多项目我想在这里与你们分享其中的 3 个
en:And for me and my community,this project was a huge success.It has opened up opportunitiesto do more projects in Gando.So I could do a lot of projects,and here I am going to share with youonly three of them.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:第一个当然是学校的扩建你要如何向不识字也不会写字的人们解释图纸和工程？我开始制作一个模型创新之处是建造一个粘土拱顶然后，我跳上了顶部和我的团队一起跳，拱顶能够支撑（我们的重量）村民们一直看着它。它仍然坚固不倒这样一来，我们就可以开工了（笑声）我们不断地搭建，这就是成品孩子们都很高兴，他们很喜欢它村民们非常自豪。我们做到了甚至动物，像这些驴也喜爱我们的建筑（笑声）
en:The first one is the school extension, of course.How do you explain drawings and engineeringto people who are neither able to read nor write?I started to build a prototype like that.The innovation was to build a clay vault.So then, I jumped on the top like that,with my team, and it works.The community is looking. It still works.So we can build. (Laughter)And we kept building, and that is the result.The kids are happy, and they love it.The community is very proud. We made it.And even animals, like these donkeys,love our buildings.(Laughter)
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:我要介绍的下一个项目是甘多的图书馆现在，我们试着去为我们的建筑加入更多不同的概念但我们往往没有太多的材料在冈多，我们有很多陶土罐我们想用陶土罐来制造一些通风口所以我们把它们带到建筑工地就像你看到的这样我们切割这些罐子然后将其放在屋顶上在我们浇筑混凝土之前就成了这样通气口让热空气排出去让光线穿透进来非常简单
en:The next project is the library in Gando.And see now, we tried to introducedifferent ideas in our buildings,but we often don&#39;t have so much material.Something we have in Gando are clay pots.We wanted to use them to create openings.So we just bring them like you can seeto the building site.we start cutting them,and then we place them on top of the roofbefore we pour the concrete,and you have this result.The openings are letting the hot air outand light in.Very simple.
时间： 7:59
zh-cn:我最新进行的项目是甘多一所高中的建造我想与你们分享这一项目中的创新之处在于用浇筑混凝土的方式来浇筑泥巴要如何浇筑泥巴呢？我们开始制造大量的灰浆，正如你们所见当一切都准备就绪当你找到了最好的配方和最佳的形态就可以开始和村民们一同工作了有时我可以离开他们能够自己完成就像我来到这里发表演说
en:My most recent project in Gandois a high school project.I would like to share with you this.The innovation in this projectis to cast mud like you cast concrete.How do you cast mud?We start making a lot of mortars, like you can see,and when everything is ready,when you know what is the best recipeand the best form,you start working with the community.And sometimes I can leave.They will do it themselves.I came to speak to you like that.
时间： 8:34
zh-cn:冈多的另一个气候因素是雨当大雨来临我们急着去保护我们易碎的墙不被雨淋不要和克劳德夫妇的艺术混淆这只是我们保护墙的方式（笑声）布基纳法索的雨来势汹汹大雨之后就会有洪水整个国家都是这样但对我们来说，雨是好事它让河流堆满砂和碎石正是我们需要的建筑材料我们只要等到大雨过后收集沙子，和粘土混合然后继续建造就是这样
en:Another factor in Gando is rain.When the rains come,we hurry up to protect our fragile wallsagainst the rain.Don&#39;t confound with Christo and Jeanne-Claude.It is simply how we protect our walls.(Laughter)The rain in Burkina comes very fast,and after that, you have floodseverywhere in the country.But for us, the rain is good.It brings sand and gravel to the riverwe need to use to build.We just wait for the rain to go.We take the sand, we mix it with clay,and we keep building.That is it.
时间： 9:19
zh-cn:冈多的项目自始至终都在培训村民的技能因为我只是希望某一天，如果我倒地死亡甘多至少有一个人能继续这项工作但你们感到惊讶的是，我还活着（笑声）
en:The Gando project was alwaysconnected to training the people,because I just wanted, one daywhen I fall down and die,that at least one person from Gandokeeps doing this work.But you will be surprised. I&#39;m still alive.(Laughter)
时间： 9:39
zh-cn:村民们现在可以用他们的技能来赚钱通常情况下，如果一个甘多的年轻男子想赚钱他就必须背井离乡到城市去有时他们离开了家乡就再也没有回来这使社群关系变得松散但现在他们可以留在村庄在不同的建筑工地工作赚钱来养活他们的家人这项工作中有了新的性质
en:And my people now can use their skillsto earn money themselves.Usually, for a young man from Gando to earn money,you have to leave the countryto the city, sometimes leave the countryand some never come back,making the community weaker.But now they can stay in the countryand work on different building sitesand earn money to feed their family.There&#39;s a new quality in this work.
时间：10:15
zh-cn:是的，你知道这点通过这些项目，我赢得了许多奖项肯定的是，它创造了一些机会也为我带来了名声但是我做这些事的动机是为了我的家乡
en:Yes, you know it.I have won a lot of awards through this work.For sure, it has opened opportunities.I have become myself known.But the reason why I do what I dois my community.
时间：10:36
zh-cn:当我还是个孩子的时候我去城里上学每个假期我都会回到甘多到每个假期结束的时候我不得不和村里的人们告别挨家挨户地去告别甘多所有的妇女都会像这样打开她们的口袋把身上仅有的一枚硬币给我在我的文化里，这象征着感情的深厚作为一个七岁的男孩，这是印象深刻的一天我问我的母亲&quot;为什么所有这些妇女都这么爱我?&quot;（笑声）她回答说&quot;她们想要为你的教育支出作点贡献希望你学有所成某一天会回到村里帮助改善社区的生活质量。”希望现在我值得村民们为我感到骄傲通过这些项目我希望能够证明社群的力量并告诉你们建筑可以激励村民们去建造属于自己的未来
en:When I was a kid,I was going to school,I was coming back every holiday to Gando.By the end of every holidays,I had to say goodbye to the community,going from one compound to another one.All women in Gando will open their clothes like thatand give me the last penny.In my culture, this is a symbol of deep affection.As a seven-year-old guy, I was impressed.I just asked my mother one day,&quot;Why do all these women love me so much?&quot;(Laughter)She just answered,&quot;They are contributing to pay for your educationhoping that you will be successfuland one day come back and helpimprove the quality of life of the community.&quot;I hope now that I was ableto make my community proudthrough this work,and I hope I was able to prove you the powerof community,and to show you that architecturecan be inspiring for communitiesto shape their own future.
时间：11:57
zh-cn:非常感谢（掌声）谢谢。谢谢。谢谢。谢谢。谢谢。谢谢。（掌声）
en:Merci beaucoup. (Applause)Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you. Thank you. (Applause)
