时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我住在华盛顿特区但我是在新河克拉，印度奥里萨邦的一个小村庄长大。我父亲是个政府雇员，我母亲不会读书写字，但她跟我说：“国王只有在自己的王国里才被膜拜，而诗人走到哪儿都受到尊敬。”所以我就想长大后成为一名诗人。但是我差点没上成大学，直到一位姨妈出钱帮我。
en:I live in Washington, D.C.,but I grew up in Sindhekela, a village in Orissa,in India.My father was a government worker.My mother could not read or write, but shewould say to me, &quot;A king is worshipped only in hisown kingdom. A poet is respected everywhere.&quot;So I wanted to be a poet when I grew up.But I almost didn&#39;t go to collegeuntil an aunt offered financial help.
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:我去了萨姆巴尔普尔，当地最大的城镇读书。在那儿上大学的时候，我才第一次看到电视。那时我梦想去美国接受高等教育。后来机会来了，我借钱买了机票，横跨两个大洋，兜里装了二十元美金就来了。在美国，我一边在一家研究中心兼职，一边上经济学的研究生课程。虽然挣得不多，我还是一边供自己上学，一边寄钱回家给我父亲和我兄弟。
en:I went to study in Sambalpur,the largest town in the region,where, already in college, I saw atelevision for the first time.I had dreams of going to the United Statesfor higher studies.When the opportunity came,I crossed two oceans, with borrowed moneyfor airfare and only a $20 bill in my pocket.In the U.S., I worked in a research center,part-time, while taking graduate classes in economics.And with the little I earned, I wouldfinance myself and then I would sendmoney home to my brother and my father.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:我这样的绝不是唯一的。每年有成百上千万的人移民。通过家人的帮助，他们跨越大洋，沙漠，河流，或者山脉。他们冒着生命危险去实现一个梦想。他们的梦想很简单，就是能有一份不错的工作，让他们能寄钱回家，帮助他们的家人，那些曾帮助过他们的人。
en:My story is not unique.There are millions of people who migrate each year.With the help of the family, they cross oceans,they cross deserts, they cross rivers, they cross mountains.They risk their lives to realize a dream,and that dream is as simple as having adecent job somewhere so they can send money homeand help the family,which has helped them before.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:世界上有两亿三千二百万国际移民。他们生活在一个不同于他们出生地的国度。如果有一个国家全部由国际移民组成，它的人口将超过巴西，它的经济实力将超过法国。其中一亿八千万的移民来自贫穷的国家，他们按时寄钱回家。
en:There are 232 million international migrants in the world.These are people who live in a countryother than their country of birth.If there was a country made up ofonly international migrants,that would be larger, in population,than Brazil.That would be larger, in its sizeof the economy, than France.Some 180 million of them, from poor countries,send money home regularly.
时间： 2:49
zh-cn:这些钱叫做移民汇款。这样一个事实可能会让你大吃一惊：4310亿美元，去年一共有4310亿美元由移民们寄到发展中国家。来自发展中国家的移民，寄到发展中国家的钱，4310亿美元。这个数字相当惊人，它等于所有发展资助资金总和的三倍。但是，你，我，我在华盛顿的同事们，我们不停地争辩，讨论发展资助，却把移民汇款当作小钱忽略了。
en:Those sums of money are called remittances.Here is a fact that might surprise you:413 billion dollars, 413 billion dollarswas the amount of remittances sent last yearby migrants to developing countries.Migrants from developing countries,money sent to developing countries —413 billion dollars.That&#39;s a remarkable number becausethat is three times the size ofthe total of development aid money.And yet, you and I,my colleagues in Washington,we endlessly debate anddiscuss about development aid,while we ignore remittances as small change.
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:确实，人们平均每月寄两百美元。但是，月复一月，成百上千万的人在寄，这些钱汇聚成一条条外币形成的河流。印度去年收到了720亿美元，超过它的IT出口额。埃及收到的移民汇款达到苏伊士运河上贸易额的三倍。塔吉克斯坦，移民汇款占GDP的42%。在更穷，更小，或者正发生冲突的国家，移民汇款就如同救命稻草，比如说在索马里或海蒂。
en:True, people send 200 dollars per month,on average. But, repeated month after month,by millions of people,these sums of money add up to rivers of foreign currency.So India, last year, received 72 billion dollars, larger thanits IT exports.In Egypt remittances are three timesthe size of revenues from the Suez Canal.In Tajikistan, remittances are 42 percent of GDP.And in poorer countries, smaller countries, fragile countries,conflict-afflicted countries, remittances are a lifeline,as in Somalia or in Haiti.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:难怪这些资金流会对经济和贫困人口带来巨大的影响。不同于私人资助基金，移民汇款不会在国家一出现问题的时候就回流。它们更像保险金。当家人遇到麻烦，碰到问题，遇到困难的时候，它会增加，就像保险金一样，移民们会寄更多的钱回去。它们也不像发展资助基金，那些必须经过正式的机构，通过政府。而移民汇款直接到达穷人手中，到达家人手中，通常还附带着商业建议。
en:No wonder these flows have hugeimpacts on economies and on poor people.Remittances, unlike private investment money,they don&#39;t flow back at the firstsign of trouble in the country.They actually act like an insurance.When the family is in trouble,facing hardship, facing hard times,remittances increase, they act like an insurance.Migrants send more money then.Unlike development aid money,that must go through official agencies,through governments, remittancesdirectly reach the poor,reach the family,and often with business advice.
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:在尼泊尔，1995年时穷人占人口总数的42%。十年之后，2005年时，当时尼泊尔正遇上政治危机，经济危机，可是穷人的比例却降到了31%。贫困人口的减少，大部分，大约一半，是依靠从印度，另一个穷国，寄来的移民汇款 。在萨尔瓦多，儿童辍学率在接受移民汇款的家庭中就比较低。在墨西哥和斯里兰卡儿童的出生体重在接受移民汇款的家庭中较高。
en:So in Nepal, the share of poorpeople was 42 percent in 1995,the share of poor people in the population.By 2005, a decade later, at atime of political crisis, economic crisis,the share of poor people went down to 31 percent.That decline in poverty, most of it,about half of it, is believed to bebecause of remittances from India,another poor country.In El Salvador, the school dropoutrate among children is lowerin families that receive remittances.In Mexico and Sri Lanka,the birth weight of children is higheramong families that receive remittances.
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:移民汇款是被爱包裹的钱财。移民们寄钱回去买食物，买必需品，建房子，用于教育，老年人的医疗，还有家人和朋友的商业投资。遇到特殊情况，移民们还会寄更多的钱，比如手术或婚礼。也许更多的时候，遇上突如其来的葬礼，他们因为无法参加而寄钱回去。
en:Remittances are dollars wrapped with care.Migrants send money home for food,for buying necessities, for building houses,for funding education, for fundinghealthcare for the elderly, for businessinvestments for friends and family.Migrants send even more money homefor special occasions like a surgeryor a wedding. And migrants also sendmoney, perhaps far too many times,for unexpected funerals thatthey cannot attend.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:虽然这些资金流动有这么多好处，它们的流动却受到很多阻碍，阻碍这四千亿美元的流动。最大的障碍是寄钱回家的高额费用。现金传递公司收费的方式就是在压榨穷人。他们会说，五百美元以下，我们固定收取30元的手续费。如果你很穷，只能寄两百块钱，你也得交30元的手续费。寄钱的全球平均花费是8%。也就是说你寄100块钱，到了另一边你的家人只能收到92块。寄钱到非洲的花费就更高：12%。在非洲内部寄钱，费用还要更高：超过20%，比如从贝宁寄钱到尼日利亚。而在委内瑞拉，因为货币兑换受到控制，如果你寄了100块钱，你的家人在另一边如果能拿到10块钱就不错了。当然了，没人通过正式渠道往委内瑞拉寄钱。都是装在行李箱里带。收费高的地方，钱都从地下走了。
en:Much as these flows do all that good,there are barriers to theseflows of remittances, these400 billion dollars of remittances.Foremost among them isthe exorbitant cost of sending money home.Money transfer companies structuretheir fees to milk the poor.They will say, &quot;Up to 500 dollarsif you want to send, we will charge you30 dollars fixed.&quot;If you are poor and if you have only 200 dollars to send,you have to pay that $30 fee.The global average cost of sendingmoney is eight percent.That means you send 100 dollars,the family on the other side receives only92 dollars.To send money to Africa,the cost is even higher:12 percent.To send money within Africa,the cost is even higher:over 20 percent.For example, sending money from Benin to Nigeria.And then there is the case of Venezuela, where,because of exchange controls,you send 100 dollars and youare lucky if the family on the other sidereceives even 10 dollars.Of course, nobody sends money to Venezuelathrough the official channel.It all goes in suitcases.Whereever costs are high,money goes underground.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:更糟的是，很多发展中国家实际上还全面禁止往国外寄钱。很多富裕国也全面禁止向某些国家寄钱。那是不是没有办法，更好，更便宜的办法寄钱了呢？
en:And what is worse,many developing countries actuallyhave a blanket ban on sending moneyout of the country.Many rich nations also have ablanket ban on sending money to specific countries.So, is it that there are no options,no better options, cheaper options, to send money?
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:还是有的。通过肯尼亚的M-Pesa寄钱，手续费是固定的每笔60美分。美国联邦政府和墨西哥之间启动了一个项目，使得汇款公司往墨西哥寄钱时只需要每笔67美分的手续费。但是这些更快，更便宜，更好的办法，还不能在国际上通用，因为担心被人利用来洗钱。虽然没有什么数据证明这两者之间有什么联系，就是说洗钱和小额的移民汇款之间有什么联系。很多跨国银行现在害怕拥有汇款公司的账户，特别是那些业务涉及到索马里的公司。
en:There are.M-Pesa in Kenya enables people to send moneyand receive money at a fixed cost of only60 cents per transaction.U.S. Fed started a program with Mexicoto enable money service businessesto send money to Mexicofor a fixed cost of only 67 cents per transaction.And yet, these faster, cheaper, better optionscan&#39;t be applied internationallybecause of the fear of money laundering,even though there is little datato support any connection, any significantconnection between money launderingand these small remittance transactions.Many international banks noware wary of hosting bank accountsof money service businesses, especiallythose serving Somalia.
时间： 8:58
zh-cn:索马里人均年收入才250美元。按月寄往索马里的移民汇款平均都大于这个数。移民汇款成了索马里的血脉。索马里的情况就是个典型的例子，一方面右手给予很多援助，另一方面左手又通过各种条规切断它的经济血脉。像我这样来自乡村的穷人还会遇到另一个问题。在乡村里，唯一能收到汇款的地方是邮局。世界上多数国家的政府都允许邮局和某个汇款公司之间建立唯一的合作关系。所以如果我要寄钱给乡下的父亲，我就必须得去特定的那一家汇款公司寄。即使它收费较高，我也没有其它的选择。这种情况必须要改变。
en:Somalia, a country where theper capita income is only 250 dollars per year.Monthly remittances, on average, to Somaliais larger than that amount.Remittances are the lifeblood of Somalia.And yet, this is an example ofthe right hand giving a lot of aid,while the left hand is cutting the lifebloodto that economy, through regulations.Then there is the case of poor peoplefrom villages, like me.In the villages, the only place where you canget money is through the post office.Most of the governments in the worldhave allowed their post offices to haveexclusive partnerships with money transfer companies.So, if I have to send money to myfather in the village, I must send moneythrough that particular money transfer company,even if the cost is high.I cannot go to a cheaper option.This has to go.
时间：10:04
zh-cn:那么，国际组织和社会企业家们可以做些什么来降低寄钱回家的费用呢？首先，放宽关于一千美元以下的小额移民汇款的法规，政府应该意识到，小额汇款不是洗钱。第二，政府应该禁止邮局和某个汇款公司建立唯一的合作关系。最好是禁止邮局和任何全国性的银行系统之间建立这种关系，实际上，他们应该鼓励竞争，开放合作伙伴，这样就可以降低费用，就像电话业那样。你们都知道电话业的情况了。第三，大型非营利性组织应该在非营利的基础上创建一个移民汇款平台。他们应该创建一个非营利的移民汇款平台来服务于汇款公司，使他们能降低寄钱的费用，同时还能不违反世界各地各种复杂的条规。
en:So, what can international organizations andsocial entrepreneurs do to reduce the costof sending money home?First, relax regulations on small remittancesunder 1,000 dollars.Governments should recognize thatsmall remittances are not money laundering.Second, governments should abolish exclusive partnershipsbetween their post office and the money transfer company.For that matter, between the post officeand any national banking system thathas a large network that serves the poor.In fact, they should promote competition,open up the partnership so thatwe will bring down costs like we did,like they did, in the telecommunications industry.You have seen what has happened there.Third, large nonprofit philanthropic organizationsshould create a remittance platformon a nonprofit basis.They should create a nonprofitremittance platform to serve the money transfercompanies so that they can send money at a low cost,while complying with all the complexregulations all over the world.
时间：11:15
zh-cn:发展中的社区应该朝着将移民汇款费率从现在的8%降到1%的目标努力。如果我们能把费用降到1%，将每年省下300亿美元。比每年给非洲的全部双边资助预算还多，而且也比美国政府的全部援助预算还多，或着几乎相当。这可是全球最大的捐助国。实际上，省下的还不止那三百亿，因为移民汇款渠道还可以用于救援，贸易和投资。
en:The development community shouldset a goal of reducing remittance coststo one percent from the current eight percent.If we reduce costs to one percent,that would release a saving of 30 billion dollars per year.Thirty billion dollars, that&#39;s larger than the entirebilateral aid budget going to Africa per year.That is larger than, or almost similar to,the total aid budget of the United States government,the largest donor on the planet.Actually, the savings would be largerthan that 30 billion because remittance channelsare also used for aid, trade and investment purposes.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:另一个严重阻碍移民汇款到达家人手中的因素，是高额的非法招工费。这些费是移民工人付给给他们找到工作的人的。
en:Another major impediment to theflow of remittances reaching the familyis the large and exorbitantand illegal cost of recruitment,fees that migrants pay, migrant workerspay to laborers who found them the job.
时间：12:11
zh-cn:几年前我去过迪拜我去了一个劳工的营地。那是晚上8点，又黑又湿又热，工人们刚刚结束了一天又苦又累的工作回来。我和一个孟加拉来的建筑工人聊了起来。他一心就想着寄钱回家，已经寄了几个月了，可是钱基本上都给了劳务介绍人，那个给他找到这份工作的人。我可以想象得到，他的妻子每月盼着这笔钱。钱汇到了，她取了钱，转手就得交给招工的人，而孩子们只能眼巴巴的看着。不能再这样下去了。
en:I was in Dubai a few years ago.I visited a camp for workers.It was 8 in the evening, dark, hot, humid.Workers were coming back fromtheir grueling day of work,and I struck a conversationwith a Bangladeshi construction worker.He was preoccupied that he is sendingmoney home, he has beensending money home for a few months now,and the money is mostly goingto the recruitment agent, to the labor agentwho found him that job.And in my mind, I could picturethe wife waiting forthe monthly remittance.The remittance arrives.She takes the money and handsit over to the recruitment agent,while the children are looking on.This has to stop.
时间：13:04
zh-cn:这不仅仅发生在孟加拉的建筑工人身上，而是发生在所有工人身上，发生在成百上千万的移民工身上。孟加拉的建筑工平均每人要付四千美元的找工费，而这份工作每年只挣两千美元。也就是说，有两到三年的时间，他寄回去的钱都只是在付招工费，他的家人什么都拿不到。
en:It is not only construction workers from Bangladesh,it is all the workers. There are millions of migrantworkers who suffer from this problem.A construction worker from Bangladesh,on an average, pays about 4,000 dollars in recruitment feesfor a job that gives him only 2,000 dollars per year in income.That means that for the two years or three yearsof his life, he is basically sending moneyto pay for the recruitment fees.The family doesn&#39;t get to see any of it.
时间：13:36
zh-cn:也不仅仅发生在迪拜，而是发生在全世界每个大城市的阴暗角落里。不光是孟加拉的建筑工人而是全世界的工人们。也不仅仅发生在男工身上，女工更经常成为非法招工的受害者。
en:It is not only Dubai, it is the darkunderbelly of every major city in the world.It is not only Bangladeshi construction workers,it is workers from all over the world.It is not only men.Women are especially vulnerable torecruitment malpractices.
时间：13:54
zh-cn:在移民汇款领域，最新，最令人兴奋的事是创造移民们存钱和捐钱的新方式。移民们不仅寄钱回家，他们自己也存很多钱。事实上，移民存款据估计每年达五千亿美元。大部分的钱都存在银行里，挣不到半点利息。如果哪个国家能为移民提供百分之三到四的利息，而且说把这些钱用来在他们出生的国家修建学校，公路，机场，铁路，很多移民会拿钱出来的。因为对他们来说不仅得到经济利益，而且也使他们有机会参与他们自己国家的发展。可以通过移民汇款的渠道，把这些债券卖给移民，因为他们每个月来寄钱的时候，就正好是可以向他们出售债券的时候。也可以用同样的方法来刺激移民们捐钱。我会非常希望可以为在印度修建高速铁路系统投资。我也会非常愿意为在我们村防治疟疾投资。利用移民汇款可以实现目的性的资源交流，使最需要的人收益。
en:One of the most exciting and newestthing happening in the area of remittancesis how to mobilize, through innovation,diaspora saving and diaspora giving.Migrants send money home,but they also save a large amount ofmoney where they live.Annually, migrant savings are estimatedto be 500 billion dollars.Most of that money is parked inbank deposits that give you zero percent interest rate.If a country were to come and offer a three percentor four percent interest rate, and then saythat the money would be used for building schools,roads, airports, train systemsin the country of origin, a lotof migrants would be interested inparting with their money becauseit&#39;s not only financial gains thatgive them an opportunityto stay engaged with their country&#39;s development.Remittance channels can be usedto sell these bonds to migrantsbecause when they comeon a monthly basis to send remittances,that&#39;s when you can actually sellit to them.You can also do the samefor mobilizing diaspora giving.I would love to invest in abullet train system in Indiaand I would love to contribute to effortsto fight malaria in my village.Remittances are a great way ofsharing prosperity between placesin a targeted way that benefitsthose who need them most.
时间：15:33
zh-cn:移民汇款是一项强大的资源。我们应该竭尽全力使移民汇款和海外招工更安全，更便宜。这是能实现的。
en:Remittances empower people.We must do all we can to make remittancesand recruitmentsafer and cheaper.And it can be done.
时间：15:45
zh-cn:就我而言，我已经离开印度二十多年了。我妻子是委内瑞拉人，孩子们是美国人。我越来越觉得自己是个全球公民。但是，我也越来越思念我出生的地方。我既想在印度，又想在美国。我的父母已不在了。我的兄弟姐妹们也搬走了。我已经不迫切需要往家寄钱了。但是时不时地，我会寄钱回去给朋友，给亲戚，给村里，就像我还在那里。它是我的一部分。同时，我还在努力成为一名诗人，为那些辛勤劳作的移民们，以及他们为摆脱贫困所做的挣扎。谢谢。（掌声）
en:As for myself, I have beenaway from India for two decades now.My wife is a Venezuelan.My children are Americans.Increasingly, I feel like a global citizen.And yet, I am growing nostalgicabout my country of birth.I want to be in India and in the U.S. at the same time.My parents are not there anymore.My brothers and sisters have moved on.There is no real urgency for me to send money home.And yet, from time to time,I send money home to friends,to relatives, to the village,to be there, to stay engaged —that&#39;s part of my identity.And, I&#39;m still striving to be a poetfor the hardworking migrantsand their struggle to break freeof the cycle of poverty.Thank you.(Applause)
