时间： 0:12
zh-cn:开放，这个词代表着机遇和发展潜力。开放式的，开放式壁炉，开放的资源，门户开放政策，露天酒吧，（笑声）
en:Openness. It&#39;s a word thatdenotes opportunity and possibilities.Open-ended, open hearth,open source, open door policy,open bar. (Laughter)
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:以及任何正在开放的地方，这是一件好事。
en:And everywhere the world is opening up,and it&#39;s a good thing.
时间： 0:30
zh-cn:为什么会如此？技术革新正在开放这个世界。
en:Why is this happening?The technology revolution is opening the world.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:过去，英特网是一个平台用来发布信息。今日的英特网已经成为了一个计算平台。英特网正在成长壮大成为一个巨大的全球计算器。你每次上网、上传视频、在Google上搜索、重新混排一些材料，都是在编辑这个大型的全球计算器，这是大家共享的。人类正在建造一个机器，这使我们能够用新的方式合作。这种合作是建立在天文数字的基础上的。
en:Yesterday&#39;s Internet was a platformfor the presentation of content.The Internet of today is a platform for computation.The Internet is becoming a giantglobal computer, and every time you go on it,you upload a video, you do a Google search,you remix something,you&#39;re programming this big global computerthat we all share.Humanity is building a machine,and this enables us to collaborate in new ways.Collaboration can occur onan astronomical basis.
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:现在，新的一代也正在打开这个世界。我从15年前开始研究孩子，事实上大概从二十年前就开始了。我注意到我自己的孩子们轻而易举就能应用这些成熟的科技，一开始，我以为“我的孩子们是神童！”（笑声）但很快我就意识到他们的朋友也这么厉害，原来他们没那么神。我已经对上百个孩子进行过研究，于是我得出结论，他们是第一代接触数码时代到来的孩子。沐浴在电脑数位中，我称他们为“网络一代”我说过，这些孩子是不同的。他们不畏惧科技，因为科技是无形的。就像空气一样。这就有点像我不会惧怕冰箱一样。而且-（笑声）
en:Now a new generation is opening up the world as well.I started studying kids about 15 years ago,— so actually 20 years ago now —and I noticed how my own children wereeffortlessly able to use all this sophisticated technology,and at first I thought,&quot;My children are prodigies!&quot; (Laughter)But then I noticed all their friends were like them,so that was a bad theory.So I&#39;ve started working with a few hundred kids,and I came to the conclusionthat this is the first generation to come of agein the digital age,to be bathed in bits.I call them the Net Generation.I said, these kids are different.They have no fear of technology, because it&#39;s not there.It&#39;s like the air.It&#39;s sort of like, I have no fear of a refrigerator.And — (Laughter)
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:这第一代“数字原住民”能改变任何一种体制，没有比他们更为强大的力量了。我属于数字移民。我不得不去学习这种“语言”。
en:And there&#39;s no more powerful force to changeevery institution than the first generation of digital natives.I&#39;m a digital immigrant.I had to learn the language.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:全球经济危机也同样在打开这个世界。从工业时代的不透明体制，所有旧的公司体制，到政府，媒体，华尔街，都处于停滞或冻结甚至是萎缩或彻底失败的各个阶段，这样的危机正在全球范围创建一个“燃烧的平台”。我的意思是，想象一下华尔街。其核心运作模式几乎让全球资本市场濒临崩溃。
en:The global economic crisis is opening up the world as well.Our opaque institutions from the Industrial Age,everything from old models of the corporation,government, media, Wall Street,are in various stages of being stalled or frozenor in atrophy or even failing,and this is now creating a burning platform in the world.I mean, think about Wall Street.The core modus operandi of Wall Street almost brought downglobal capitalism.
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:现在，你们了解了“燃烧的平台”这一概念，在这里，原地不动保持现状的成本比改变现状所需的成本要高，也许是彻底地改变。我们需要改革开放我们所有的体制。
en:Now, you know the idea of a burning platform,that you&#39;re somewhere where the costs of staying where you arebecome greater than the costs of moving to something different,perhaps something radically different.And we need to changeand open up all of our institutions.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:这种技术推动，源于新一代的民主改革，来自新全球经济环境的一种需求正在促进全世界的开放进程。
en:So this technology push,a demographic kick from a new generationand a demand pull from a neweconomic global environmentis causing the world to open up.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:现在，我认为，事实上我们正处在人类历史的一个转折点，现在，我们终于能够重建许多工业时代的体制，制定一系列的新准则。
en:Now, I think, in fact,we&#39;re at a turning point in human history,where we can finally now rebuildmany of the institutions of the Industrial Agearound a new set of principles.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:如今，什么才是开放？事实上，开放有许多不同的含义，对于每一种含义，都有对应的原则与文明的转变相呼应。第一种是合作。这种开放是组织机构边界概念上的开放，组织机构应更为透明，灵活和开放。
en:Now, what is openness?Well, as it turns out, opennesshas a number of different meanings,and for each there&#39;s a corresponding principlefor the transformation ofcivilization.The first is collaboration.Now, this is openness in the sense of the boundariesof organizations becoming more porous and fluidand open.
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:这个照片里的家伙，我要说一下他的故事。他叫Rob McEwen。我想说“我有一个智囊团，我们寻遍全世界就为了这些惊人的案例。”但我知道这个故事的原因是他是我的邻居。（笑声）实际上，他搬去了我们街对面，并且办了一个鸡尾酒会结识邻居，他说“你就是Don Tapscott阿。我读过你几本书。”我答道，“不错阿。那你是做什么的？”他回答：“嗯，我以前是个银行家现在我是一黄金开采商。”于是，他就向我诉说了这个神奇的故事。他接手了一个金矿，但他的地质学家们查不出哪里有金子。为了得到地质资料，他给了地质学家更多的报酬，然而他们回来，依然无法告诉他哪个方位适合投产。几年后，他十分沮丧，决定要放弃，但有一天他突发奇想，他想：“如果我的地质学家们不知道金子在哪里，也许其他人会知道呢。”所以他做了一件疯狂的事情。他把手头的地质资料发布在网上，并发起了一个竞赛名为“黄金公司挑战赛”。基本上奖金就是50万美金只要那个人可以告诉我，到底我有没有金子，如果有的话，在哪儿能找到？（笑声）
en:The guy in the picture here,I&#39;ll tell you his story.His name is Rob McEwen.I&#39;d like to say, &quot;I have this think tank, we scour the worldfor amazing case studies.&quot;The reason I know this storyis because he&#39;s my neighbor. (Laughter)He actually moved across the street from us,and he held a cocktail partyto meet the neighbors, and he says, &quot;You&#39;re Don Tapscott.I&#39;ve read some of your books.&quot;I said, &quot;Great. What do you do?&quot;And he says, &quot;Well I used to be a bankerand now I&#39;m a gold miner.&quot;And he tells me this amazing story.He takes over this gold mine, and his geologistscan&#39;t tell him where the gold is.He gives them more money for geological data,they come back, they can&#39;t tellhim where to go into production.After a few years, he&#39;s so frustrated he&#39;s readyto give up, but he has an epiphany one day.He wonders, &quot;If my geologists don&#39;t know where the gold is,maybe somebody else does.&quot;So he does a &quot;radical&quot; thing.He takes his geological data,he publishes it and he holds a contest on the Internetcalled the Goldcorp Challenge.It&#39;s basically half a million dollars in prize moneyfor anybody who can tell me, do I have any gold,and if so, where is it? (Laughter)
时间： 4:40
zh-cn:他得到了来自全球各地的答复。大家利用各种他闻所未闻的科技手段。为了他的50万美元奖金，Rob McEwen发现了价值34亿美金的金矿。他的公司市值从9千万跃升至100亿美元。我可以告诉你们，因为他是我的邻居，他是一个快乐的家伙。（笑声）
en:He gets submissions from all around the world.They use techniques that he&#39;s never heard of,and for his half a million dollars in prize money,Rob McEwen finds 3.4 billion dollars worth of gold.The market value of his companygoes from 90 million to 10 billion dollars,and I can tell you, because he&#39;s my neighbor,he&#39;s a happy camper. (Laughter)
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:大家知道，传统智慧告诉我们天赋是内在的，不是么？你最为珍贵的财产每天都在悄然而逝。他用不同的眼光看待天赋。他想知道，谁是他们的同伙？他早应该炒了那些地质学家，但他没有这么做。你们知道么，有些网络上的回复并不是来自地质学家。而是来自电脑科学家，工程师。赢家是一家计算机图形公司他们建立了矿山的三维模型能在地下进行搜索哪里有金矿。
en:You know, conventional wisdom says talent is inside, right?Your most precious asset goes out the elevator every night.He viewed talent differently.He wondered, who are their peers?He should have fired his geology department, but he didn&#39;t.You know, some of the best submissionsdidn&#39;t come from geologists.They came from computer scientists, engineers.The winner was a computer graphics companythat built a three dimensional model of the minewhere you can helicopter undergroundand see where the gold is.
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:他帮助我们了解了社会媒体正在成为社会生产力。这不只是挂在网上，而是一种正在形成的新生产模式。这个他建立的“思想市场”，一个开放的市场，集市是为那些唯一有资格的头脑准备的，这是变革的一部分，是我们的组织深层结构和设计的一种深刻变化，以及我们如何编排革新，创造物品和服务，与世界上的其他人协作的能力，在政府方面，我们如何创造公共价值。开放在于协作。
en:He helped us understand that social media&#39;s becomingsocial production.It&#39;s not about hooking up online.This is a new means of production in the making.And this Ideagora that he created, an open market, agora,for uniquely qualified minds,was part of a change, a profound change in the deep structureand architecture of our organizations,and how we sort of orchestrate capability to innovate,to create goods and services,to engage with the rest of the world,in terms of government, how we create public value.Openness is about collaboration.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:那么第二点，开放是关于透明化。这一点是不同的。我们谈论的是对与组织利益相关者的关联信息传递：员工，客户，生意伙伴，股东，等等。
en:Now secondly, openness is about transparency.This is different. Here, we&#39;re talking about the communicationof pertinent information to stakeholders of organizations:employees, customers, business partners, shareholders,and so on.
时间： 6:22
zh-cn:全球的组织机构都在趋于透明化。大家对于维基解密大为恼火，但这只是冰山一角。你们看，现在大家只要动动手指，每个人，不仅仅是Julian Assange（维基解密创始人），拥有这些强大的工具去获知正在发生的事件，省查，告知他人，甚至组织群体回复。组织机构正在变得裸露化，
en:And everywhere, our institutions are becoming naked.People are all bent out of shape about WikiLeaks,but that&#39;s just the tip of the iceberg.You see, people at their fingertips now, everybody,not just Julian Assange,have these powerful tools for finding out what&#39;s going on,scrutinizing, informing others,and even organizing collective responses.Institutions are becoming naked,
时间： 6:46
zh-cn:如果你将要以裸体示人，那么，会有一些必然结果由此产生。我是说，其中之一。健美不再是备选项。（笑声）你们知道么？或者，如果你将要以裸体示人，你最好晒成浅黄色。
en:and if you&#39;re going to be naked,well, there&#39;s some corollaries that flow from that.I mean, one is,fitness is no longer optional. (Laughter)You know? Or if you&#39;re going to be naked, you&#39;d better get buff.
时间： 6:58
zh-cn:我所说的晒成浅黄色，意思是你们需要拥有优良的价值，因为价值从没像现在这样暴露于人前。你说你有好产品，这些产品最好真的是好产品。但你还需要价值。你需要诚信作为你骨骼的一部分你的DNA作为一种组织，因为如果你没有，你将无法建立起信任感，信任感是这个全新的网络世界中必不可少的。
en:Now, by buff I mean, you need to have good value,because value is evidenced like never before.You say you have good products.They&#39;d better be good.But you also need to have values.You need to have integrity as part of your bonesand your DNA as an organization,because if you don&#39;t, you&#39;ll be unable to build trust,and trust is a sine qua non of this new network world.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:这样很好，并不坏。阳光是最好的杀菌剂。在这个乱七八糟的世界，我们需要大量的阳光。
en:So this is good. It&#39;s not bad.Sunlight is the best disinfectant.And we need a lot of sunlight in this troubled world.
时间： 7:30
zh-cn:那么，开放的第三个含义和对应原则就是关于分享。这与透明化截然不同。透明化是关于信息的传递。分享则是关于放弃财产，知识产权。
en:Now, the third meaning and corresponding principleof openness is about sharing.Now this is different than transparency.Transparency is about the communication of information.Sharing is about giving up assets, intellectual property.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:关于这一点，有各种闻名的案例。IBM转让4亿美元的软件给Linux，这给了IBM数十亿美金的收益。
en:And there are all kinds of famous stories about this.IBM gave away 400 million dollars of softwareto the Linux movement, and that gave thema multi-billion dollar payoff.
时间： 7:54
zh-cn:如今，传统智慧宣扬：“嘿，我们的知识产权属于我们，如果谁企图侵犯的话，我们就找律师告他们。“好吧，但这好像在唱片标签上不太奏效，不是么？我的意思是，他们垄断了-造成了一种技术中断，他们没有进行商业模式上的革新去回应之，反而诉诸法律手段以求解决问题。曾经带给我们猫王和披头士的行业现在正在起诉孩子们而且面临破产。
en:Now, conventional wisdom says,&quot;Well, hey, our intellectual property belongs to us,and if someone tries to infringe it, we&#39;re going to get outour lawyers and we&#39;re going to sue them.&quot;Well, it didn&#39;t work so well for the record labels, did it?I mean, they took — They had a technology disruption,and rather than taking a business model innovationto correspond to that, they took and sought a legal solutionand the industry that brought you Elvis and the Beatlesis now suing childrenand is in danger of collapse.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:因此，我们需要从不同的角度来考虑知识产权了。
en:So we need to think differently about intellectual property.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:举个例子。医药行业正深陷困境。首先，这个行业现在没有大的突破创新在生产线上。这对于人类健康是个大问题，然而，医药行业还有一个更大的问题，它们正要跌落，从我们所说的”专利悬崖“。你们了解这一点吗？他们将损失百分之20到35的收入在未来的12个月里。那么，你们要怎么做？像是，削减开支还是什么其它的招？不。
en:I&#39;ll give you an example.The pharmaceutical industry is in deep trouble.First of all, there aren&#39;t a lot of big inventionsin the pipeline, and this is a big problem for human health,and the pharmaceutical industry has got a bigger problem,that they&#39;re about to fall off somethingcalled the patent cliff.Do you know about this?They&#39;re going to lose 20 to 35 percent of their revenuein the next 12 months.And what are you going to do,like, cut back on paper clips or something? No.
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:我们需要的是革新整个科学研究模式。医药行业需要把共享他们的资产他们需要开始分享竞争前的研究成果。他们需要开始共享临床实验数据，这么做，能在整个行业创造一个上升趋势，这不仅仅是为了这个行业，而是为了全人类。
en:We need to reinvent the whole model of scientific research.The pharmaceutical industry needs to place assetsin a commons. They need to start sharing precompetitive research.They need to start sharingclinical trial data,and in doing so, create a rising tide that could lift all boats,not just for the industry butfor humanity.
时间： 9:22
zh-cn:接下来，是开放的第4个含义和相对应的原则，即权力。我不是要在这里讨论母性意识。知识和智慧就是力量，由于它变得越来越分散，就会有伴随分布和权力下放及分类这是目前全世界正在面临的局面。开放的世界将带来自由。
en:Now, the fourth meaningof openness,and corresponding principle, is about empowerment.And I&#39;m not talking about the motherhood sense here.Knowledge and intelligence is power,and as it becomes more distributed, there&#39;s aconcomitant distributionand decentralization and disaggregation of powerthat&#39;s underway in the world today.The open world is bringing freedom.
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:比如说，”阿拉伯之春“。关于社会媒体角色和社会变革的争议被解决了。你们知道的，一个词：突尼斯。然后最终演变出一大串其它词。但在突尼斯革命中，新媒体没有引发革命；是不公正引发了革命。社会媒体没有引发革命；革命是由新一代的年轻人创造的他们需要工作和希望他们不想再被当作研究对象。
en:Now, take the Arab Spring.The debate about the role of social mediaand social change has been settled.You know, one word: Tunisia.And then it ended up having a whole bunch of other words too.But in the Tunisian revolution,the new media didn&#39;t cause the revolution;it was caused by injustice.Social media didn&#39;t create the revolution;it was created by a new generation of young peoplewho wanted jobs and hope andwho didn&#39;t want to be treated as subjects anymore.
时间：10:19
zh-cn:但是，正当英特网为商业和政府降低交易和协作的成本的同时，它也拉低了叛乱，逆反，甚至是暴动的成本以一种让人难以理解的方式。
en:But just as the Internet drops transaction and collaborationcosts in business and government,it also drops the cost of dissent, of rebellion,and even insurrectionin ways that people didn&#39;t understand.
时间：10:31
zh-cn:你们知道，在突尼斯革命中，与政府勾结的狙击手杀害了街上手无寸铁的学生。因此学生们用他们的移动设备，拍下照片，三角定位，并把照片寄给友好盟军，让他们来消灭那些狙击手。你们还以为社会媒体仅仅意味着挂在网上吗？对这些孩子来说，这是一种军事工具使手无寸铁的平民免遭杀戮。这是一种自我防卫的工具。
en:You know, during the Tunisian revolution,snipers associated with the regime were killingunarmed students in the street.So the students would take their mobile devices,take a picture, triangulate the location,send that picture to friendly military units,who&#39;d come in and take out the snipers.You think that social media is about hooking up online?For these kids, it was a military toolto defend unarmed people from murderers.It was a tool of self-defense.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:你们知道，正如我们今天说到的，年轻人在叙利亚被杀害，直到3个月前，如果你在街上受伤，救护车会来接你，带你去医院，你走进去，也许，跛着脚，你出来时可能就是脑袋中抢。
en:You know, as we speak today, young peopleare being killed in Syria,and up until three months ago,if you were injured on the street,an ambulance would pick you up,take you to the hospital, you&#39;d go in, say, with a broken leg,and you&#39;d come out with a bullet in your head.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:因此，这些年轻人创造了一种可选的医疗系统，他们利用Twitter和基本的公共工具，当有人受伤时，一辆车会出现，把他们接走，带他们到一个临时搭建的医疗诊所，在那里能得到正常的医治。因此，这是一个巨大变革的时代。
en:So these 20-somethings createdan alternative health care system,where what they did is they used Twitter and basicpublicly available tools that when someone&#39;s injured,a car would show up, it would pick them up,take them to a makeshift medical clinic, where you&#39;d getmedical treatment, as opposed to being executed.So this is a time of great change.
时间：11:36
zh-cn:但也不能说不存在任何问题。直到2年前，人类历史上所有革命都有领袖，当旧体制消亡，领袖和新的组织就能掌权。这些维基革命发生的如此之快他们创建了一个真空环境然而政治痛恨真空，令人厌恶的力量能够填补之，典型的旧体制，或极端主义者，或原教旨主义势力。你们能看到今天的埃及就是这出戏码。
en:Now, it&#39;s not without its problems.Up until two years ago,all revolutions in human history had a leadership,and when the old regime fell, the leadershipand the organization would take power.Well, these wiki revolutions happen so fastthey create a vacuum, andpolitics abhors a vacuum,and unsavory forces can fill that,typically the old regime,or extremists, or fundamentalist forces.You can see this playing out today in Egypt.
时间：12:04
zh-cn:但这无关紧要，因为它正在前进。火车离开了车站。猫蹦出了袋子。马跑出了马厩。帮帮我，好吗？（笑声）牙膏被挤出来了。我的意思是，我们不是在倒退。开放的世界将带来权力与自由。
en:But that doesn&#39;t matter,because this is moving forward.The train has left the station. The cat is out of the bag.The horse is out of the barn. Help me out here, okay?(Laughter) The toothpaste is out of the tube.I mean, we&#39;re not putting this one back.The open world is bringing empowerment and freedom.
时间：12:23
zh-cn:我认为，在4天之后你们就能得出结论历史之方向是积极的，是朝着开放发展的。
en:I think, at the end of these four days,that you&#39;ll come to conclude that the arc of historyis a positive one, and it&#39;s towards openness.
时间：12:32
zh-cn:如果你们回顾几百年前，全世界曾是一个十分封闭的社会。那时处于土地改革，生产资料和政治体制被称为封建主义，知识集中在教会和贵族手中。人们很无知。没有进步的概念。你出生，生活然后死去。
en:If you go back a few hundred years,all around the world it was a very closed society.It was agrarian, and the means of productionand political system was called feudalism, and knowledgewas concentrated in the church and the nobility.People didn&#39;t know about things.There was no concept of progress.You were born, you lived your life and you died.
时间：12:51
zh-cn:然后Johannes Gutenberg 带着他的伟大发明到来，渐渐地，社会变得开放起来。人们开始学习。当他们学习时，封建社会体制趋向停滞，冻结或消亡。对于交谈来说掌握医药已没有任何意义当人们拥有知识了之后。
en:But then Johannes Gutenberg came along with his great invention,and, over time, the society opened up.People started to learn about things, and when they did,the institutions of feudal society appearedto be stalled, or frozen, or failing.It didn&#39;t make sense for the church to be responsiblefor medicine when people had knowledge.
时间：13:11
zh-cn:因此我们看到了新教改革。Martin Luther称之为”印刷机“”上帝最大的恩赐。“公司，科学，大学的创立最终迎来了工业革命，所有这些都是正面的。
en:So we saw the Protestant Reformation.Martin Luther called the printing press&quot;God&#39;s highest act of grace.&quot;The creation of a corporation, science, the university,eventually the Industrial Revolution,and it was all good.
时间：13:25
zh-cn:但都需要付出一定的代价。
en:But it came with a cost.
时间：13:27
zh-cn:现在，再一次的，科技天才正在踊跃而出，但这次不太一样。”印刷机“给了我们接触书面文字的机会。英特网让我们每个人都能成为生产商。”印刷机“使我们能够接触记录的知识。英特网使我们接触的，不仅仅是信息和知识，还有人们脑中包含的智慧在全球范围内。
en:And now, once again, the technology genieis out of the bottle, but this time it&#39;s different.The printing press gave us access to the written word.The Internet enables each of us to be a producer.The printing press gave us access to recorded knowledge.The Internet gives us access,not just to information and knowledge, butto the intelligence contained in the crania of other peopleon a global basis.
时间：13:51
zh-cn:对我来说，这不是一个信息时代，这是一个网络智能时代。这是一个广阔诺言的时代，一个合作的时代，我们的组织边界在变化，一个透明化的时代，阳光涤荡着人类文明，这是一个分享和理解共同的新权力的时代，一个权力和自由的时代。
en:To me, this is not an information age,it&#39;s an age of networked intelligence.It&#39;s an age of vast promise,an age of collaboration,where the boundaries of our organizations are changing,of transparency, where sunlightis disinfecting civilization,an age of sharing and understandingthe new power of the commons,and it&#39;s an age of empowermentand of freedom.
时间：14:25
zh-cn:现在，我想做的是，总结，与你们分享某个我做过的研究。我研究过各种组织为了了解未来会是怎么样，但最近我开始研究自然。
en:Now, what I&#39;d like to do is,to close, to share with yousome research that I&#39;ve been doing.I&#39;ve tried to study all kinds of organizationsto understand what the future might look like,but I&#39;ve been studying nature recently.
时间：14:42
zh-cn:你们知道的，蜜蜂和鱼儿都喜成群结队。椋鸟，在爱丁堡周围的地区，在英格兰的旷野上，传来某种淙淙的声音，是翅膀扇动的淙淙声一整天过去，椋鸟飞过了20英里半径自得其乐。到了晚上，它们聚在一起创造出最壮观的一幕在大自然中，就被称为淙淙声。对此作过研究的科学家曾说过他们从未见过有意外发生。现在，这件事有了一种功能性。它能保护鸟儿。你们能看到就在这里，有一个猎手被鸟群的力量驱赶，很显然，这是一件可怕的事情如果你是一个猎鸟者的话。这其中也存在领袖，但不仅仅是一个领导者。
en:You know, bees come in swarmsand fish come in schools.Starlings, in the area around Edinburgh,in the moors of England,come in something called a murmuration,and the murmuration refers to the murmuring of the wingsof the birds, and throughout the day the starlingsare out over a 20-mile radiussort of doing their starling thing.And at night they come togetherand they create one of the most spectacular thingsin all of nature,and it&#39;s called a murmuration.And scientists that have studied this have saidthey&#39;ve never seen an accident.Now, this thing has a function.It protects the birds.You can see on the right here,there&#39;s a predator being chased away by the collective powerof the birds, and apparently this is a frightening thingif you&#39;re a predator of starlings.And there&#39;s leadership,but there&#39;s no one leader.
时间：15:36
zh-cn:那么，这是不是某种奇特的比喻呢？或者，我们是否能从中学到什么？这种淙淙声记述了一系列的原则，基本上就是我今天阐述的原则。这是一种广博的协作。是开放，是分享各种信息，而不仅仅是地点路线和危险等，而是食物的来源。这里就存在一种真正的相互依存感，鸟群个体不知为何就能够理解它们个体的利益是依托于群体利益的。
en:Now, is this some kind of fanciful analogy,or could we actually learn something from this?Well, the murmuration functions to recorda number of principles,and they&#39;re basically the principles thatI have described to you today.This is a huge collaboration.It&#39;s an openness, it&#39;s a sharingof all kinds of information, not just about locationand trajectory and danger and so on, but about food sources.And there&#39;s a real sense of interdependence,that the individual birds somehow understandthat their interests are in the interest of the collective.
时间：16:12
zh-cn:也许就像我们理解的那样商业是无法成功的如果整个市场濒临崩溃的话。
en:Perhaps like we should understandthat business can&#39;t succeedin a world that&#39;s failing.
时间：16:20
zh-cn:我看了这个之后忽然感觉充满了希望。想象一下今天“阿拉伯之春”的孩子们，你就会看到类似的事情即将来到。
en:Well, I look at this thing,and I get a lot of hope.Think about the kids today in the Arab Spring, andyou see something like this that&#39;s underway.
时间：16:33
zh-cn:想象一下，如果你可以的话：如果在这个世界上，我们能够连接我们自己借助一个巨大的空气和玻璃网络，那会是如何呢？我们能否超越仅仅分享信息和知识这个层面呢？我们能否开始分享我们的智慧呢？我们能否创造某种集体智慧超越个体，群体或团队创造，也许是某种意识在全球范围内？如果我们真的能做到，我们就可以解决世界上一些重大问题。
en:And imagine, just consider this idea, if you would:What if we could connect ourselves in this worldthrough a vast network of air and glass?Could we go beyond just sharing information and knowledge?Could we start to share our intelligence?Could we create some kind ofcollective intelligencethat goes beyond an individual or a group or a teamto create, perhaps, some kind of consciousnesson a global basis?Well, if we could do this, we could attack some big problems in the world.
时间：17:07
zh-cn:我反观这一点，我也不知道，但我忽然就充满了希望，也许这个更小的，联网的，开放的世界我们的孩子们继承的世界，也许会更好，这个网络智慧的新时代可能是一个兑现承诺的和危机重重的时代。
en:And I look at this thing,and, I don&#39;t know, I get a lot of hope that maybe thissmaller, networked, open worldthat our kids inherit might be a better one, and thatthis new age of networked intelligence could bean age of promise fulfilledand of peril unrequited.
时间：17:28
zh-cn:让我们行动起来。谢谢！
en:Let&#39;s do this. Thank you.
时间：17:31
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
