时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我爱着一个巨大的谜，并且被这个科学界最伟大的未解之谜深深吸引，也许是因为它切身相关。它关乎我们是谁，我无法控制自己的好奇。
en:I love a great mystery,and I&#39;m fascinated by the greatestunsolved mystery in science,perhaps because it&#39;s personal.It&#39;s about who we are,and I can&#39;t help but be curious.
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:这个谜就是：你的大脑和你的意识体验之间有什么关系，比如说品味巧克力的味道，或是天鹅绒的触感。
en:The mystery is this:What is the relationshipbetween your brainand your conscious experiences,such as your experienceof the taste of chocolateor the feeling of velvet?
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:事实上，这个未解之谜并非新事物。在1868年，托马斯▪哈克雷就曾经写道，“神经组织的激发产生意识这一过程是如此的神奇，就像是阿拉丁摩擦神灯会出现精灵一样。”后来，哈克雷终于了解到大脑的活动是与意识体验紧紧相连的，但他仍不知道个中原因。对于他那个年代的科学界，这仍是个谜。自哈克雷以后，科学界了解到很多关于大脑活动的知识，但是大脑活动和意识体验的关系，仍然是个谜。为什么？为什么我们止步不前？有专家认为，我们永远也不可能解决这个问题，因为我们缺乏必要的概念和智能水平。我们不能指望猴子们能解决量子力学问题，类似的，我们不能指望人类这个物种能解决这个问题。可我不同意。我更加乐观。我觉得我们只是做了一个错误的假设。一旦我们纠正了这个错误，我们就可能解决这个问题。今天，我要告诉你这个假设是什么，为什么它是错的，以及如何纠正它。
en:Now, this mystery is not new.In 1868, Thomas Huxley wrote,&quot;How it is that anything so remarkableas a state of consciousness comes aboutas the result of irritating nervous tissueis just as unaccountableas the appearance of the geniewhen Aladdin rubbed his lamp.&quot;Now, Huxley knew that brain activityand conscious experiences are correlated,but he didn&#39;t know why.To the science of his day,it was a mystery.In the years since Huxley,science has learned a lotabout brain activity,but the relationshipbetween brain activityand conscious experiencesis still a mystery.Why? Why have we made so little progress?Well, some experts thinkthat we can&#39;t solve this problembecause we lack the necessaryconcepts and intelligence.We don&#39;t expect monkeys to solveproblems in quantum mechanics,and as it happens, we can&#39;t expectour species to solve this problem either.Well, I disagree. I&#39;m more optimistic.I think we&#39;ve simplymade a false assumption.Once we fix it, we justmight solve this problem.Today, I&#39;d like tell youwhat that assumption is,why it&#39;s false, and how to fix it.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:让我们先问一个问题：真的是”眼见为实“吗？我睁开眼睛，感受到一米外有一只红色的番茄。结果我开始相信，事实上一米之外有一只番茄然后我闭上双眼，就体验到一片灰色，但这时一米开外仍旧有一只番茄吗？我觉得有，但我会不会错了呢？有没有可能是我曲解了我的知觉呢？
en:Let&#39;s begin with a question:Do we see reality as it is?I open my eyesand I have an experience that I describeas a red tomato a meter away.As a result, I come to believethat in reality,there&#39;s a red tomato a meter away.I then close my eyes, and my experiencechanges to a gray field,but is it still the case that in reality,there&#39;s a red tomato a meter away?I think so, but could I be wrong?Could I be misinterpretingthe nature of my perceptions?
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:我们曾经曲解过自己的知觉。我们曾经认为地球是平的，因为它看起来是平的。毕达哥拉斯发现我们错了。我们认为地球是宇宙的静止中心，也是因为它看起来是这样。哥白尼和伽利略再次发现我们错了。
en:We have misinterpretedour perceptions before.We used to think the Earth is flat,because it looks that way.Pythagorus discovered that we were wrong.Then we thought that the Earthis the unmoving center of the Universe,again because it looks that way.Copernicus and Galileo discovered,again, that we were wrong.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:伽利略后来质疑我们是不是在其他方面也曲解了自身的体验。他写道：“我认为味觉，嗅觉，色觉等等，存在于意识里。所以如果所有的生物都消失了，所有这些感受也就一同湮灭了。”
en:Galileo then wondered if we mightbe misinterpreting our experiencesin other ways.He wrote: &quot;I think that tastes,odors, colors, and so onreside in consciousness.Hence if the living creature were removed,all these qualities would be annihilated.&quot;
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:这是一个惊人的论断。伽利略是正确的吗？我们真的有曲解自身体验到如此程度吗？现代科学家怎么看这个问题呢？
en:Now, that&#39;s a stunning claim.Could Galileo be right?Could we really be misinterpretingour experiences that badly?What does modern sciencehave to say about this?
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:神经科学家告诉我们大约三分之一的大脑皮层参与视觉感受。只要当你睁开眼睛，环视这个房间，数十亿的神经元和数万亿的突触都参与其中。
en:Well, neuroscientists tell usthat about a third of the brain&#39;s cortexis engaged in vision.When you simply open your eyesand look about this room,billions of neuronsand trillions of synapses are engaged.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:这其实挺令人惊讶的，因为我们所理解的产生视觉的机制，就像一台照相机。它只是把客观事实拍摄下来。确实有一部分的视觉像照相机一样工作：眼睛是一个透镜，将图像投影到眼睛的后面，那里有一亿三千万感光元件，所以眼睛相当于一台像素为一亿三千万的数码相机。但这解释不了为什么产生视觉要动用数以十亿计的神经元和几万亿的突触。这些神经元起什么作用？
en:Now, this is a bit surprising,because to the extent thatwe think about vision at all,we think of it as like a camera.It just takes a pictureof objective reality as it is.Now, there is a part of visionthat&#39;s like a camera:the eye has a lens that focusesan image on the back of the eyewhere there are 130 millionphotoreceptors,so the eye is like a 130-megapixel camera.But that doesn&#39;t explainthe billions of neuronsand trillions of synapsesthat are engaged in vision.What are these neurons up to?
时间： 4:22
zh-cn:神经科学家告诉我们，它们实时创造出我们见到的所有形状、物体、颜色和运动。我们觉得自己只是给这个屋子本来的模样拍了一张快照，而实际上我们能建构出所有看到的东西。我们并不是在一瞬间就能构建出一切。我们只是构建出在某一时刻自己所需要的东西。
en:Well, neuroscientists tell usthat they are creating, in real time,all the shapes, objects, colors,and motions that we see.It feels like we&#39;re just taking a snapshotof this room the way it is,but in fact, we&#39;re constructingeverything that we see.We don&#39;t constructthe whole world at once.We construct what we need in the moment.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:很多现象表明这一说法是可信的，说明我们看到的东西是在脑内构建出来的。我给你们看两个例子。这个例子中，你们看到一些红色的圆盘，中间都有一些被切开的部分。我一转动这些圆盘，你们就能看到一个3D的立方体从屏幕里跃然而出。这个屏幕当然是平的，所以你们体验到的三维立方体应该是你们自己“构建”出来的。
en:Now, there are many demonstrationsthat are quite compellingthat we construct what we see.I&#39;ll just show you two.In this example, you see some red discswith bits cut out of them,but if I just rotatethe disks a little bit,suddenly, you see a 3D cubepop out of the screen.Now, the screen of course is flat,so the three-dimensional cubethat you&#39;re experiencingmust be your construction.
时间： 5:14
zh-cn:下一个例子，你们看到这些闪烁的蓝条条有着很清晰的边缘，在一大堆点中移动。实际上，没有一个点在动。我做的只是一帧一帧地改变点的颜色，从蓝色变成黑色，或者从黑色变成蓝色。但我快速播放 (这个过程) 时，你们的视觉系统就“构建”出这些闪烁的蓝条条，有着清晰的边缘，并在移动。这是很多例子中的两个，说明你看到的是自己构建出的东西。
en:In this next example,you see glowing blue barswith pretty sharp edgesmoving across a field of dots.In fact, no dots move.All I&#39;m doing from frame to frameis changing the colors of dotsfrom blue to black or black to blue.But when I do this quickly,your visual system createsthe glowing blue barswith the sharp edges and the motion.There are many more examples,but these are just twothat you construct what you see.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:但神经科学家探索得更远。他们说我们会重新构建现实。所以当我体验到一个红番茄的时候，这种体验实际上精确地重建了一个真实的红番茄的各种特性，即使我不看，它也存在。
en:But neuroscientists go further.They say that we reconstruct reality.So, when I have an experiencethat I describe as a red tomato,that experience is actuallyan accurate reconstructionof the properties of a real red tomatothat would existeven if I weren&#39;t looking.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:为什么神经科学家说我们不仅仅是“构建”，而是“重建”？标准的论证经常是进化的原因。我们的祖先中看得更准确的，比起那些看得没那么准确的，更具有竞争优势，所以拥有更大的几率能传下基因。我们是那些看得更准的祖先的后代，我们可以自信，在正常情况下，我们的知觉都是准确的。你们能在标准的教科书里读到这点。譬如，我们的教科书上说：“从进化上说，视觉的作用就在于它的准确。”这就是说，准确的知觉是适应性更高的知觉。它们给予你生存优势。
en:Now, why would neuroscientistssay that we don&#39;t just construct,we reconstruct?Well, the standard argument givenis usually an evolutionary one.Those of our ancestorswho saw more accuratelyhad a competitive advantage comparedto those who saw less accurately,and therefore they were more likelyto pass on their genes.We are the offspring of thosewho saw more accurately,and so we can be confident that,in the normal case,our perceptions are accurate.You see this in the standard textbooks.One textbook says, for example,&quot;Evolutionarily speaking,vision is useful preciselybecause it is so accurate.&quot;So the idea is that accurate perceptionsare fitter perceptions.They give you a survival advantage.
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:这个观点对吗？这是不是一种关于进化理论的正确解读？让我们先来检验一些自然中的例子。
en:Now, is this correct?Is this the right interpretationof evolutionary theory?Well, let&#39;s first look at a coupleof examples in nature.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:澳大利亚吉丁虫身有浅坑，外壳泛光，体色为棕色。雌虫不能飞。雄虫能飞，并寻找出色的雌虫。当它找着了，就降落下来交配。在澳大利亚内陆还有一个物种，叫做智人，其中的雄性脑容量巨大，并用来寻找冰镇啤酒。（笑声）当他找到了，就喝光，有时候还把空瓶子乱扔。这些空瓶身有浅坑，外壳泛光，还刚好是吉丁虫最喜欢的那种棕色。雄虫蜂拥而来，围着空酒瓶试图交配。他们对真正的雌虫丧失了一切兴趣。这真是一个雄性为了酒瓶而抛弃雌性的经典例子。（笑声）（掌声）这个物种差点就灭绝了。澳大利亚不得不把酒瓶的设计改掉，好挽救这种甲虫。（笑声）雄虫能成功地找到雌虫的历史可能已有数百万年了。它们貌似能看到客观真实，但很明显，事实并非如此。进化摆了它们一道。雌虫就是任何身有浅坑，外壳泛光，体色为棕色的东西，而且越大越好。（笑声）即使爬遍整个酒瓶，雄虫也无法发现自己的错误。
en:The Australian jewel beetleis dimpled, glossy and brown.The female is flightless.The male flies, looking,of course, for a hot female.When he finds one, he alights and mates.There&#39;s another species in the outback,Homo sapiens.The male of this specieshas a massive brainthat he uses to hunt for cold beer.(Laughter)And when he finds one, he drains it,and sometimes throws the bottleinto the outback.Now, as it happens, these bottlesare dimpled, glossy,and just the right shade of brownto tickle the fancy of these beetles.The males swarm all overthe bottles trying to mate.They lose all interestin the real females.Classic case of the maleleaving the female for the bottle.(Laughter) (Applause)The species almost went extinct.Australia had to change its bottlesto save its beetles.(Laughter)Now, the males had successfullyfound females for thousands,perhaps millions of years.It looked like they saw realityas it is, but apparently not.Evolution had given them a hack.A female is anything dimpled,glossy and brown,the bigger the better.(Laughter)Even when crawling all over the bottle,the male couldn&#39;t discover his mistake.
时间： 8:48
zh-cn:你也许会说，甲壳虫当然是一种非常简单的生物，哺乳动物可不会这样。哺乳动物不会仰赖于这种雕虫小技。我不想细说这张图了，你们应该知道我的意思。（笑声）
en:Now, you might say, beetles, sure,they&#39;re very simple creatures,but surely not mammals.Mammals don&#39;t rely on tricks.Well, I won&#39;t dwell on this,but you get the idea. (Laughter)
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:所以这就产生了一个重要的技术性问题：自然选择真的支持“眼见为实”吗？幸运的是，我们不必挥手乱猜；进化论是一个数学上精准的理论。我们可以用演化方程组来检验。我们可以让多种有机体在人造环境下互相竞争，看看哪些可以生存繁衍，哪种感观系统的适应性更高。
en:So this raises an importanttechnical question:Does natural selection really favorseeing reality as it is?Fortunately, we don&#39;t haveto wave our hands and guess;evolution is a mathematicallyprecise theory.We can use the equations of evolutionto check this out.We can have various organismsin artificial worlds competeand see which survive and which thrive,which sensory systems are more fit.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:这些方程组中有一个关键的概念叫做“适应性”。考虑下这块牛排：它对动物的适应性如何？对于一头饥肠辘辘、正在觅食的狮子来说，它能加强适应性；对于一头“饱暖思淫欲”的狮子来说，它就不能增加适应性；而对于一只兔子来说，无论兔子处于什么状态，它都不能增加适应性。所以说，适应性并非取决于事实本身，而是要看针对的是哪种有机体，它处于什么状态，要做什么行动。适应性与事实本身不是一回事，但正是适应性——而非事实本身——在进行演化方程组的计算中起了至关重要的作用。
en:A key notion in thoseequations is fitness.Consider this steak:What does this steak dofor the fitness of an animal?Well, for a hungry lion looking to eat,it enhances fitness.For a well-fed lion looking to mate,it doesn&#39;t enhance fitness.And for a rabbit in any state,it doesn&#39;t enhance fitness,so fitness does dependon reality as it is, yes,but also on the organism,its state and its action.Fitness is not the same thingas reality as it is,and it&#39;s fitness,and not reality as it is,that figures centrallyin the equations of evolution.
时间：10:20
zh-cn:在我的实验室里，我们模拟了数十万次的进化博弈，在多种不同的随机选择的环境中，有机体相互竞争资源。一些有机体能够看到全部真实；一些只能看到部分真实；一些完全看不到真实，仅仅具有适应性。谁能胜出？
en:So, in my lab,we have run hundreds of thousandsof evolutionary game simulationswith lots of differentrandomly chosen worldsand organisms that competefor resources in those worlds.Some of the organismssee all of the reality,others see just part of the reality,and some see none of the reality,only fitness.Who wins?
时间：10:47
zh-cn:我不想点破，但（结果是）真实的知觉灭绝了。在几乎所有的模拟当中，那些一点儿也看不到真实，但具有适应性的有机体，把一切能看到真实的有机体逼向灭绝。这里的关键在于，进化并不支持垂直知觉或准确知觉。这种对于真实的知觉会灭绝。
en:Well, I hate to break it to you,but perception of reality goes extinct.In almost every simulation,organisms that see none of realitybut are just tuned to fitnessdrive to extinction all the organismsthat perceive reality as it is.So the bottom line is, evolutiondoes not favor veridical,or accurate perceptions.Those perceptions of reality go extinct.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:这个结论挺惊人的。看世界不准确怎么会给我们带来生存优势呢？这有点违反直觉。但别忘了吉丁虫。吉丁虫利用简单的技巧，生存了成千上百万年。演化方程组告诉我们，包括人类在内的一切有机体都与吉丁虫同命相连。我们的所见并非真实。我们之所以生存下来，仰赖的是各种雕虫小技的塑造。
en:Now, this is a bit stunning.How can it be that not seeingthe world accuratelygives us a survival advantage?That is a bit counterintuitive.But remember the jewel beetle.The jewel beetle survivedfor thousands, perhaps millions of years,using simple tricks and hacks.What the equationsof evolution are telling usis that all organisms, including us, are in the same boat as the jewel beetle.We do not see reality as it is.We&#39;re shaped with tricksand hacks that keep us alive.
时间：11:47
zh-cn:然而，我们需要直觉来帮点忙。知觉不准确为什么会有用？幸好我们有个形象的隐喻：电脑桌面的界面。考虑下这个蓝色图标，它代表你正在撰写的一篇TED演讲稿。这个图标是一个蓝色的、呈长方形、并处在桌面的右下角。这是否意味着你放在电脑里的文档本身是蓝色的、呈长方形，并处在电脑的右下角？当然不是。如果有谁真是这么想的，那他就误解了界面的存在目的。它不是为了向你展示电脑的真实。事实上，它是为了隐藏那种真实。你不想要知道二极管啊、电阻器啊、软件的字节啊之类的东西。如果要跟那些东西打交道，你就没法写文档，也没法编辑照片了。（我的）想法是，进化给予我们一个界面，能够隐藏事实，并引导我们做出具有适应性的行为。你们现在感知到的空间和时间，正是你的桌面。具有实体的各种物品，就是桌面上的简单图标。
en:Still,we need some help with our intuitions.How can not perceivingreality as it is be useful?Well, fortunately, we havea very helpful metaphor:the desktop interface on your computer.Consider that blue iconfor a TED Talk that you&#39;re writing.Now, the icon is blue and rectangularand in the lower right cornerof the desktop.Does that mean that the text file itselfin the computer is blue,rectangular, and in the lowerright-hand corner of the computer?Of course not.Anyone who thought that misinterpretsthe purpose of the interface.It&#39;s not there to show youthe reality of the computer.In fact, it&#39;s there to hide that reality.You don&#39;t want to know about the diodesand resistors and allthe megabytes of software.If you had to deal with that,you could never write your text fileor edit your photo.So the idea is that evolutionhas given us an interfacethat hides reality and guidesadaptive behavior.Space and time, as youperceive them right now,are your desktop.Physical objects are simply iconsin that desktop.
时间：13:03
zh-cn:这里有一个明显的反对理由，霍夫曼，如果你认为那列以200英里时速呼啸而来的火车只是桌面上的一个图标，你为什么不站在它前面？等你带着你的理论乖乖“上路”了，我们就会知道那列火车不仅仅是一个图标。我不会站在火车前面，其中的原因与我不会草率地将图标拽进回收站的原因是一致的：不是因为我从直接意象上理解这个图标——这个文档不是蓝色的，也并非长方形——但我确实要严肃对待。（随意删除它）可能让我数周的工作毁于一旦。类似地，进化塑造了我们，知觉符号的设计让我们能够生存。我们最好严肃对待。如果你看到一条蛇，别碰它；如果你看到一块峭壁，别跳崖；这些（知觉符号的）设计能保护我们的安全，我们应该严肃对待它们。这并不意味着我们要仅从字面上理解它们。那会是一个逻辑错误。
en:There&#39;s an obvious objection.Hoffman, if you think that traincoming down the track at 200 MPHis just an icon of your desktop,why don&#39;t you step in front of it?And after you&#39;re gone,and your theory with you,we&#39;ll know that there&#39;s moreto that train than just an icon.Well, I wouldn&#39;t stepin front of that trainfor the same reasonthat I wouldn&#39;t carelessly dragthat icon to the trash can:not because I take the icon literally —the file is not literally blueor rectangular —but I do take it seriously.I could lose weeks of work.Similarly, evolution has shaped uswith perceptual symbolsthat are designed to keep us alive.We&#39;d better take them seriously.If you see a snake, don&#39;t pick it up.If you see a cliff, don&#39;t jump off.They&#39;re designed to keep us safe,and we should take them seriously.That does not mean that weshould take them literally.That&#39;s a logical error.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:还有一条反对理由：这并不是什么新提法。物理学家很久以前就告诉我们，构成那列火车的金属看上去是固体，其实它们基本上是微观粒子快速运动所形成的真空。这不是什么新的提法。唔，不完全是这样。这就像在说，我知道桌面上的蓝色图标并非是电脑的真实，但如果拿出我那可靠的放大镜来仔细观察，我看见的是小小的像素，那就是电脑的真实。唔，也不全是这样——你还是在桌面上，而这点是关键。这些微观粒子还是存在于空间和时间之中：那仍旧是用户界面。我的提法与那些物理学家的观点存在根本差异。
en:Another objection: There&#39;snothing really new here.Physicists have told us for a long timethat the metal of that train looks solidbut really it&#39;s mostly empty spacewith microscopic particles zipping around.There&#39;s nothing new here.Well, not exactly.It&#39;s like saying, I know thatthat blue icon on the desktopis not the reality of the computer,but if I pull out my trustymagnifying glass and look really closely,I see little pixels,and that&#39;s the reality of the computer.Well, not really — you&#39;re stillon the desktop, and that&#39;s the point.Those microscopic particlesare still in space and time:they&#39;re still in the user interface.So I&#39;m saying something far more radicalthan those physicists.
时间：14:45
zh-cn:最后，你可能要反对说，看哪，我们全都看到了火车，所以没有谁“构建”了这列火车。但请记住这个例子。在这个例子中，我们全都看到了立方体，但屏幕是平的，所以你们看到的立方体是你们自己“构建”出来的。我们全都看到了立方体，因为我们每一个人都“构建”出了所见的这个立方体。火车（的例子）也是同理。我们全都看到了一列火车，因为我们每个人都看到了自己“构建”出的这列火车，这也适用于其他所有的物体。
en:Finally, you might object,look, we all see the train,therefore none of us constructs the train.But remember this example.In this example, we all see a cube,but the screen is flat,so the cube that you seeis the cube that you construct.We all see a cubebecause we all, each one of us,constructs the cube that we see.The same is true of the train.We all see a train becausewe each see the train that we construct,and the same is trueof all physical objects.
时间：15:23
zh-cn:我们倾向于认为知觉就像真实的一扇窗户。进化理论告诉我们这是一个关于知觉的错误解读。相反的，真实更像是一个3D的桌面，其设计目的是要隐藏真实世界的复杂性，引导我们做出适应性行为。你感知到的空间是你的桌面。具有实体的各种物体就是桌面上的图标。
en:We&#39;re inclined to think that perceptionis like a window on reality as it is.The theory of evolution is telling usthat this is an incorrect interpretationof our perceptions.Instead, reality is more like a 3D desktopthat&#39;s designed to hidethe complexity of the real worldand guide adaptive behavior.Space as you perceive it is your desktop.Physical objects are justthe icons in that desktop.
时间：15:52
zh-cn:我们过去认为地球是平的，因为它看上去就那样。我们过去还认为地球是真实世界的静止中心，因为看上去就那样。我们都错了。我们误读了我们的知觉。现在我们相信时空和物体是真实存在的。进化理论告诉我们，又一次，我们错了。我们误读了知觉感受的内容。即使我们不看，也有什么是存在的，但那并不是时空和物体。我们无法放弃关于时空和物体的想法，就像吉丁虫无法放弃酒瓶子一样。为什么？因为我们看不到自己的盲目。但我们相比吉丁虫具有一种优势：那就是我们的科学和技术。透过望远镜窥视，我们发现地球并不是真实世界的静止中心；借助进化论的检验，我们发现时空和物体并不具有真实性。当我的知觉感受到所谓的一个红色番茄时，我实际上是在与真实互动，但真实并不是一个红色番茄，也跟红色番茄没什么可比性。类似地，当我感知到所谓的一头狮子或一块牛排，我实际上在与真实互动，但真实并不是一头狮子或一块牛排。难题在此：当我的知觉感受到所谓的大脑、或是神经元，我实际上在与真实互动，但真实并不是大脑或是神经元，也跟大脑或神经元没什么关系。真实，无论那是什么，正是世界上因果关系的真正来源——不是什么大脑，也不是什么神经元。大脑和神经元不具有因果力。它们并不会产生任何知觉感受，也不会导致任何行为。大脑和神经元是物种特有的符号集合，是一种认知捷径。
en:We used to think that the Earth is flatbecause it looks that way.Then we thought that the Earthis the unmoving center of realitybecause it looks that way.We were wrong.We had misinterpreted our perceptions.Now we believe that spacetime and objectsare the nature of reality as it is.The theory of evolution is telling usthat once again, we&#39;re wrong.We&#39;re misinterpreting the contentof our perceptual experiences.There&#39;s something that existswhen you don&#39;t look,but it&#39;s not spacetimeand physical objects.It&#39;s as hard for us to let goof spacetime and objectsas it is for the jewel beetleto let go of its bottle.Why? Because we&#39;re blindto our own blindnesses.But we have an advantageover the jewel beetle:our science and technology.By peering through the lens of a telescopewe discovered that the Earthis not the unmoving center of reality,and by peering through the lensof the theory of evolutionwe discovered that spacetime and objectsare not the nature of reality.When I have a perceptual experiencethat I describe as a red tomato,I am interacting with reality,but that reality is not a red tomatoand is nothing like a red tomato.Similarly, when I have an experiencethat I describe as a lion or a steak,I&#39;m interacting with reality,but that reality is not a lion or a steak.And here&#39;s the kicker:When I have a perceptual experiencethat I describe as a brain, or neurons,I am interacting with reality,but that reality is not a brain or neuronsand is nothing like a brain or neurons.And that reality, whatever it is,is the real source of cause and effectin the world — not brains, not neurons.Brains and neuronshave no causal powers.They cause none of ourperceptual experiences,and none of our behavior.Brains and neurons are a species-specificset of symbols, a hack.
时间：18:01
zh-cn:这对于认知之谜意味着什么？它提供了新的可能性。比如，真实也许是某种用于产生意识经验的巨型机器。我个人对此抱有怀疑，但这个观点值得探索。真实也许是一个巨大的互动网络，连结着各种具有自我意识的存在，无论简单还是复杂，都能引发各自的意识经验。实际上，这个观点并不像看上去那么疯狂，对此我正在研究。
en:What does this meanfor the mystery of consciousness?Well, it opens up new possibilities.For instance,perhaps reality is some vast machinethat causes our conscious experiences.I doubt this, but it&#39;s worth exploring.Perhaps reality is some vast,interacting network of conscious agents,simple and complex, that causeeach other&#39;s conscious experiences.Actually, this isn&#39;t as crazyan idea as it seems,and I&#39;m currently exploring it.
时间：18:37
zh-cn:但关键是：当我们放弃了非常直观却也非常错误的关于真实性的假设，这开拓了思考人生最大谜团的新思路。我打赌，真实最终将变得比我们想象的更加迷人和意外。
en:But here&#39;s the point:Once we let go of our massively intuitivebut massively false assumptionabout the nature of reality,it opens up new ways to thinkabout life&#39;s greatest mystery.I bet that reality will end upturning out to be more fascinatingand unexpected than we&#39;ve ever imagined.
时间：19:00
zh-cn:进化论为我们展现了那个终极挑战：敢于认识到知觉并不是为了认识真实而存在，而是为了繁衍子孙。顺便一提，甚至是这个TED，也仅仅存在于你的脑海之中。
en:The theory of evolution presents uswith the ultimate dare:Dare to recognize that perceptionis not about seeing truth,it&#39;s about having kids.And by the way, even this TEDis just in your head.
时间：19:19
zh-cn:非常感谢大家。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：19:21
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：19:31
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森：如果这真的是你，那么谢谢你。你的演讲中到很多东西。我是说，首先，一些人可能会非常失望，因为想到，如果进化并不支持真实，是否在某种程度上损害了我们所有的努力，和我们认为自己可以思考真理的能力，甚至可能包括你自己的理论呢？
en:Chris Anderson: If that&#39;sreally you there, thank you.So there&#39;s so much from this.I mean, first of all, some peoplemay just be profoundly depressedat the thought that,if evolution does not favor reality,I mean, doesn&#39;t that to some extentundermine all our endeavors here,all our ability to thinkthat we can think the truth,possibly even includingyour own theory, if you go there?
时间：19:56
zh-cn:唐纳德•霍夫曼：这可不会阻挡我们实现科学的成功。我们只是发现一个现有理论是错误的，即知觉和真实是相似的。我们发现那个理论是错误的。那好，我们抛开那个理论。那与我们假定关于真实性的其他各种理论（正确）并不矛盾，所以说，认识到某个理论是错误的，实际上是一种进步。科学照常进展，并没有什么问题。
en:Donald Hoffman: Well, this does notstop us from a successful science.What we have is one theorythat turned out to be false,that perception is like realityand reality is like our perceptions.That theory turns out to be false.Okay, throw that theory away.That doesn&#39;t stop us from now postulatingall sorts of other theoriesabout the nature of reality,so it&#39;s actually progress to recognizethat one of our theories was false.So science continues as normal.There&#39;s no problem here.
时间：20:22
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森：所以你认为——（笑声）——这很酷，但我认为你说的是，进化存在一种可能性，让人能够推理。
en:CA: So you think it&#39;s possible— (Laughter) —This is cool, but what you&#39;re sayingI think is it&#39;s possible that evolutioncan still get you to reason.
时间：20:31
zh-cn:唐纳德•霍夫曼：是的。这个观点非常非常对。我刚才展示的进化博弈是特别针对知觉的模拟，结果确实显示出我们的知觉是被塑造的，而并非趋近真实，然而这并不意味着针对逻辑和数学（模拟进化博弈）会产生同样的结果。我们并未做过这种模拟，但我打赌结果会是：存在一些选择压力，让我们的逻辑和数学起码是趋于真理的方向。我是说，如果你们跟我一样，数学和逻辑还是有些难度的。我们并非每次都对，但至少选择压力不会一致偏离真正的数学和逻辑。因此，我认为我们会发现，我们必须逐一检验，进化如何作用于各种认知能力。关于知觉的结论可能不适用于数学和逻辑。
en:DH: Yes. Now that&#39;s a very,very good point.The evolutionary game simulations that Ishowed were specifically about perception,and they do show that our perceptionshave been shapednot to show us reality as it is,but that does not mean the same thingabout our logic or mathematics.We haven&#39;t done these simulations,but my bet is that we&#39;ll findthat there are some selection pressuresfor our logic and our mathematicsto be at least in the direction of truth.I mean, if you&#39;re like me,math and logic is not easy.We don&#39;t get it all right, but at leastthe selection pressures are notuniformly away from true math and logic.So I think that we&#39;ll find that we haveto look at each cognitive facultyone at a time and seewhat evolution does to it.What&#39;s true about perception may notbe true about math and logic.
时间：21:14
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森：我觉得你提出的观点恰如一个现代版本的贝克莱主教对世界的阐释：存在即是被感知，反之不成立。
en:CA: I mean, really what you&#39;re proposingis a kind of modern-day Bishop Berkeleyinterpretation of the world:consciousness causes matter,not the other way around.
时间：21:23
zh-cn:唐纳德•霍夫曼：唔，我的观点与贝克莱略有不同。贝克莱是一位自然神论者，他认为终极的真实性存在就是上帝，等等，我无需生发到他那个地步，所以跟贝克莱不太一样。我称之为意识现实主义。我们方法不同。
en:DH: Well, it&#39;s slightlydifferent than Berkeley.Berkeley thought that, he was a deist,and he thought that the ultimatenature of reality is Godand so forth,and I don&#39;t need to gowhere Berkeley&#39;s going,so it&#39;s quite a bitdifferent from Berkeley.I call this conscious realism.It&#39;s actually a very different approach.
时间：21:42
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森：唐，我想我能跟你聊上个把小时，我希望能这样做。
en:CA: Don, I could literally talk with youfor hours, and I hope to do that.
时间：21:45
zh-cn:非常感谢你。唐纳德•霍夫曼：谢谢。（掌声）
en:Thanks so much for that.DH: Thank you. (Applause)
