时间： 0:11
zh-cn:常言道，别人家的东西总比自己的好。我信这话，尤其是当我听到奧巴馬总统常常大谈韩国教育系统，视其为成功典范。嗯，告诉你吧，韩国学校系统，人称高压锅机制僵化，竞争激烈，那种环境不会每个人都受得了的。虽然大家对我们的教育系统反应不一，我对这个高压环境的应对办法是用我公寓楼旁边捡到的木片做弓 。
en:It is said that the grass is always greeneron the other side of the fence,and I believe this is true,especially when I hear President Obamaoften talk about the Korean education systemas a benchmark of success.Well, I can tell you that,in the rigid structure and highly competitive natureof the Korean school system,also known as pressure cooker,not everyone can do well in that environment.While many people responded in different waysabout our education system,my response to the high-pressure environmentwas making bows with pieces of woodfound near my apartment building.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:为什么做弓呢？我不清楚。也许，面对持续的压力，我这山顶洞人的生存本能自然就联系到弓箭了。设想一下，弓自史前时代起就真的帮助推进了人类生存。朝鲜王朝统治时期，我家三公里范围内都是桑树林，桑叶用来养蚕。为了提高大家对这一历史事实的认识，政府栽种了很多桑树。鸟把桑树籽带到本市高速公路隔音墙附近一带，到场都是，高速公路隔音墙是1988 年奥运会时建的。这些墙附近,无人管理，树木任意滋长。我就是在那儿第一次找到了宝藏。
en:Why bows?I&#39;m not quite sure.Perhaps, in the face of constant pressure,my caveman instinct of survivalhas connected with the bows.If you think about it,the bow has really helped drive human survivalsince prehistoric times.The area within three kilometers of my homeused to be a mulberry forestduring the Joseon dynasty,where silkworms were fed with mulberry leaves.In order to raise the historical awareness of this fact,the government has planted mulberry trees.The seeds from these treesalso have spread by birds here and therenearby the soundproof walls of the city expresswaythat has been built around the 1988 Olympics.The area near these walls,which nobody bothers to pay attention to,had been left free from major intervention,and this is where I first found my treasures.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:当我对制弓越来越着迷时，我开始走出我的小区去找材料。当我去学校户外活动时，同家人度假时，或仅仅是在我从课外班回家的路上时，我在树丛附近徘徊，用我偷偷地塞进书包的工具收集树枝。工具有锯、刀、镰刀和斧头，我在树枝上盖了一条毛巾。我把树枝带回家，又是公共汽车， 又是地铁的，我勉强抱着走。
en:As I fell deeper into bow making,I began to search far and beyond my neighborhood.When I went on school field trips,family vacations, or simply on my way homefrom extracurricular classes,I wandered around wooded areasand gathered tree brancheswith the tools that I sneaked inside my school bag.And they would be somethings like saws, knives,sickles and axesthat I covered up with a piece of towel.I would bring the branches home,riding buses and subways,barely holding them in my hands.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:我没有把工具带到长滩来。机场安检。
en:And I did not bring the tools here to Long Beach.Airport security.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:（笑声）我自己的房间里，满地木屑，我独自在里面整夜地又锯，又刨光，终于做出了弓的模样。
en:(Laughter)In the privacy of my room, covered in sawdust,I would saw, trim and polish wood all night longuntil a bow took shape.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:一天，我正在改一片竹子的形状结果把竹片给烧着了。在哪儿烧的？在我公寓大厦屋顶，里面住着96户 家庭。大楼对面的一家百货公司的顾客打了 911，我跑下楼去告诉我妈妈，当时我头发一半都烧焦了。我妈妈现在就坐在观众席上，我想籍此机会，告诉妈妈：妈妈，当时我真的很抱歉，并且，以后再着火我一定更小心。
en:One day, I was changing the shape of a bamboo pieceand ended up setting the place on fire.Where? The rooftop of my apartment building,a place where 96 families call home.A customer from a department store across from my buildingcalled 911,and I ran downstairs to tell my momwith half of my hair burned.I want to take this opportunityto tell my mom, in the audience today:Mom, I was really sorry,and I will be more careful with open fire from now on.
时间： 3:53
zh-cn:当年，我母亲被迫一再解释，一再跟人家讲，她儿子没犯故意纵火罪。
en:My mother had to do a lot of explaining,telling people that her son did not commita premeditated arson.
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:我当时还广泛研究世界各地的弓，其间，我尽力融汇贯通，取古今韩外各弓之长，致力于做出世界上最高效的弓。我试了各种木材，如枫树、 红豆杉和桑树，还到市内高速公路旁边的树丛里做了很多次射箭实验，就是我之前提到的树丛。
en:I also researched extensively on bows around the world.In that process, I tried to combinethe different bows from across time and placesto create the most effective bow.I also worked with many different types of wood,such as maple, yew and mulberry,and did many shooting experimentsin the wooded area near the urban expresswaythat I mentioned before.
时间： 4:29
zh-cn:我认为：最有效的弓应该是这样的。
en:The most effective bow for mewould be like this.
时间： 4:34
zh-cn:第一：弯度适宜的箭尖，这样，拉弓射箭时，能最大限度地弹射出去。
en:One: Curved tips can maximize the springinesswhen you draw and shoot the arrow.
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:第二： 箭弦内拉，让射手能拉满弓，这样射出的力量更大。
en:Two: Belly is drawn inward for higher draw weight,which means more power.
时间： 4:50
zh-cn:第三：在弓的外层使用动物的腱，以期存储更大拉力。
en:Three: Sinew used in the outer layer of the limbfor maximum tension storage.
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:第四： 用角来存储受压的能量。
en:And four: Horn used to store energy in compression.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:经过固定，拆卸，再设计，修补、 弯曲和修改，我理想的弓初具雏形，终于做成时，弓是这样的。独自发明了如此完美的一把弓，我洋洋自得。这是韩国传统弓的图片，是在博物馆照的，请看一下我的弓有多像这些弓。感谢列祖列宗，抢了我的发明。（笑声）
en:After fixing, breaking, redesigning,mending, bending and amending,my ideal bow began to take shape,and when it was finally done,it looked like this.I was so proud of myselffor inventing a perfect bow on my own.This is a picture of Korean traditional bowstaken from a museum,and see how my bow resembles them.Thanks to my ancestorsfor robbing me of my invention. (Laughter)
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:通过做弓，我有幸接触到我先祖的文化传统。学习经年累月积累下来的知识和读取祖先遗留下来的信息胜过任何的心理疗法，强过任何一位在世成年人所能给我的忠告。你看，我当初上下求索，偏偏没在身边找。认识到这一点之后，我开始对韩国历史产生了兴趣，之前我对韩史都毫无感觉的。总之，原来自己家篱巴里的草才更绿呢，尽管我们不意识到这一点。
en:Through bowmaking,I came in contact with part of my heritage.Learning the information that has accumulated over timeand reading the message left by my ancestorswere better than any consolation therapyor piece of advice any living adults could give me.You see, I searched far and wide,but never bothered to look close and near.From this realization,I began to take interest in Korean history,which had never inspired me before.In the end, the grass is often greeneron my side of the fence,although we don&#39;t realize it.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:现在，请看我的弓怎么样。各位请看：这是竹弓，拉力45 磅。（箭破空的声音）（掌声）
en:Now, I am going to show you how my bow works.And let&#39;s see how this one works.This is a bamboo bow,with 45-pound draw weights.(Noise of shooting arrow)(Applause)
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:也许，弓机制功能简单，但为了做把好弓，正所谓：差之毫厘，失之千里。您要安抚联络这些木头材料。木头里的每一丝纤维都有其存在原因和作用，只有其通力合作才能成就一把好弓。我可能是个 [怪] 学生爱好特异，但我希望通过分享我的故事为这世界尽我一份绵薄之力。
en:A bow may function in a simple mechanism,but in order to make a good bow,a great amount of sensitivity is required.You need to console and communicatewith the wood material.Each fiber in the woodhas its own reason and function for being,and only through cooperation and harmony among themcomes a great bow.I may be an [odd] studentwith unconventional interests,but I hope I am making a contributionby sharing my story with all of you.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:我的理想世界里没有落后生，人人各司其职，仿佛是弓的纤维和筋，刚中有柔，柔中带刚。这弓就仿佛是我，而我仿佛是这把弓。现在，我正把我的一部分向你射去。不对，说的再美妙一些，我心灵的一部分刚刚向你的心灵射去。射中你了吗？
en:My ideal world is a placewhere no one is left behind,where everyone is needed exactly where they are,like the fibers and the tendons in a bow,a place where the strong is flexibleand the vulnerable is resilient.The bow resembles me,and I resemble the bow.Now, I am shooting a part of myself to you.No, better yet, a part of my mindhas just been shot over to your mind.Did it strike you?
时间： 8:13
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 8:15
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
