时间： 0:15
zh-cn:嗯，实际上，我用了毕生的精力来研究那些已经离我们远去的总统们的生活早晨起来，我会想到亚伯拉罕·林肯晚上睡觉还会想到富兰克林·罗斯福但每当我尽力去思考生命的意义时我的思绪又总会回到曾经在哈弗大学做本科生时参加的一次研讨会那时我还和著名的心理学家埃里克·埃里克森一起
en:So, indeed, I have spent my lifelooking into the lives of presidents who are no longer alive.Waking up with Abraham Lincoln in the morning,thinking of Franklin Roosevelt when I went to bed at night.But when I try and think about what I&#39;ve learnedabout the meaning in life, my mind keeps wandering backto a seminar that I took when I was a graduate student at Harvardwith the great psychologist Erik Erikson.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:他教育我们说最丰富而又充实的生命在于达到3个方面的平衡工作，爱情和娱乐若只追求一方面而无视其它会让人们年老时感到无比的悲伤然而，若能达到三者间的平衡就会让生命充实，而你得到的将不仅仅是成就还有内心祥和、安宁
en:He taught us that the richest and fullest livesattempt to achieve an inner balance between three realms:work, love and play.And that to pursue one realm to the disregard of the other,is to open oneself to ultimate sadness in older age.Whereas to pursue all three with equal dedication,is to make possible a life filled not only with achievement,but with serenity.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:既然是讲故事，我们先来回顾一下两位总统的生命历程，来证明我的观点他们是亚伯拉罕·林肯和林登·约翰逊那么第一方面—工作林肯的生活告诉我们人要有大志向林肯志向远大但并不仅仅为了获取权力、地位或名誉他追求的是给生命带来意义的东西使周围的世界更加美好
en:So since I tell stories, let me look backon the lives of two of the presidents I&#39;ve studied to illustrate this point —Abraham Lincoln and Lyndon Johnson.As for that first sphere of work,I think what Abraham Lincoln&#39;s life suggestsis that fierce ambition is a good thing.He had a huge ambition.But it wasn&#39;t simply for office or power or celebrity or fame —what it was for was to accomplish something worthy enough in lifeso that he could make the world a little better place for his having lived in it.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:甚至在林肯还是个孩子的时候，就梦想成为英雄他必须从那乱糟糟的农场里逃脱出来在那个地方上学是不可能的读书也就是断断续续的旁听而已但是他一有时间就会读书据说，有次他拿到一本詹姆斯王圣经也就是人们说的“伊索寓言”的时候兴奋的废寝忘食伟大的诗人埃米莉·狄金森曾经说过，没有什么能像书一样让我们爱不释手林肯就是这样的
en:Even as a child, it seemed, Lincoln dreamed heroic dreams.He somehow had to escape that hard-scrabble farmfrom which he was born.No schooling was possible for him,except a few weeks here, a few weeks there.But he read books in every spare moment he could find.It was said when he got a copy of the King James Bibleor &quot;Aesop&#39;s Fables,&quot; he was so excited he couldn&#39;t sleep.He couldn&#39;t eat.The great poet Emily Dickinson once said,&quot;There is no frigate like a book to take us lands away.&quot;How true for Lincoln.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:尽管他没有去过欧洲但是他可以和莎士比亚一起游历英伦还在拜伦的诗歌长河里穿越西班牙和葡萄牙文学作品让他超越了环境的束缚林肯在早年经历了许多挫折周围的亲人相继死去在他只有九岁的时候，母亲去世了。他唯一的姐姐莎拉几年后因难产死亡还有他的初恋爱人安·拉特利奇22岁也死了还有，他母亲在垂死之时她并没有拥抱林肯说希望他们来世可以再见面她只是对他说“亚伯拉罕，现在我要离你远去，再也不会回来了。”从那时起，他开始执迷地认为人们死后，生命就此消逝，无影无踪
en:Though he never would travel to Europe,he went with Shakespeare&#39;s kings to merry England,he went with Lord Byron&#39;s poetry to Spain and Portugal.Literature allowed him to transcend his surroundings.But there were so many losses in his early lifethat he was haunted by death.His mother died when he was only nine years old;his only sister, Sarah, in childbirth a few years later;and his first love, Ann Rutledge, at the age of 22.Moreover, when his mother lay dying,she did not hold out for him the hopethat they would meet in an afterworld.She simply said to him,&quot;Abraham, I&#39;m going away from you now, and I shall never return.&quot;As a result he became obsessed with the thoughtthat when we die our life is swept away — dust to dust.
时间： 2:40
zh-cn:后来随着慢慢长大，他才在古希腊思想的影响下得到一些慰藉当然还受到其它文化影响他意识到如果人们能够追求到令生命意义的东西你就可以被后人铭记荣耀和名誉就也会比人的躯体更长久的留存这一志向变成了林肯的座右铭伴随着他度过了生命中最艰难的时期那是在他30出头的时候
en:But only as he grew older did he developa certain consolation from an ancient Greek notion —but followed by other cultures as well —that if you could accomplish something worthy in your life,you could live on in the memory of others.Your honor and your reputation would outlive your earthly existence.And that worthy ambition became his lodestar.It carried him through the one significant depression that he sufferedwhen he was in his early 30s.
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:三件事让他情绪低落他和玛莉·托德解除了婚约因为不确定自己要娶她但他明白他的行为对于她来说是多么的残酷还有就是他一个最好的朋友约书亚·斯皮得要离开伊利诺伊州回到肯塔基州，因为斯皮得的父亲去世了。还有他在州议会的政治前途越走越黯淡朋友们担心他会自杀把他房里所有的小刀，刮胡刀还有剪刀都拿走后来他的好朋友斯皮得来到身边对他说&quot;林肯，你要振作，不然你就是死路一条。”他反说，“其实我现在就可以死但是我还没有做过什么事能让人们记得我存在过。”
en:Three things had combined to lay him low.He had broken his engagement with Mary Todd,not certain he was ready to marry her,but knowing how devastating it was to her that he did that.His one intimate friend, Joshua Speed, was leaving Illinoisto go back to Kentucky because Speed&#39;s father had died.And his political career in the state legislaturewas on a downward slide.He was so depressed that friends worried he was suicidal.They took all knives and razors and scissors from his room.And his great friend Speed went to his side and said,&quot;Lincoln, you must rally or you will die.&quot;He said that, &quot;I would just as soon die right now,but I&#39;ve not yet done anything to make any human beingremember that I have lived.&quot;
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:他的壮志让他重燃激情，他回到了州议会最终在国会赢得一张席位后来他两次竞选议员，两次都以失败告终海明威曾经说过：“每个人都会经历生活磨练。有些人即使被折磨得体无完肤，也仍然坚强。”他竞选总统的成功震惊了整个国家也战胜了比他更有经验，更有教育背景和名望的对手然而在他真正成为总统的时候又给民众更大的震惊他分别任命了3位竞选对手成为他的内阁成员在当时这种做法是前无古人的，因为人人都认为“和其他人相比，林肯不过是有名无实之辈。”他们说，“林肯，你为什么要这么做？”他回答说，“这些人都是这个国家最强悍最有能力的人。我们的国家处在危急之中，我需要他们在我身边。”但是，也许我的老朋友林登·约翰逊用了一个更为通俗的方式来表达这个意思让敌人在你的帐篷里对外撒尿总比他们站在帐篷外往里面尿好（笑声）
en:So fueled by that ambition, he returned to the state legislature.He eventually won a seat in Congress.He then ran twice for the Senate, lost twice.&quot;Everyone is broken by life,&quot; Ernest Hemingway once said,&quot;but some people are stronger in the broken places.&quot;So then he surprised the nation with an upset victoryfor the presidency over three far more experienced,far more educated, far more celebrated rivals.And then when he won the general election,he stunned the nation even moreby appointing each of these three rivals into his Cabinet.It was an unprecedented act at the time because everybody thought,&quot;He&#39;ll look like a figurehead compared to these people.&quot;They said, &quot;Why are you doing this, Lincoln?&quot;He said, &quot;Look, these are the strongestand most able men in the country.The country is in peril. I need them by my side.&quot;But perhaps my old friend Lyndon Johnsonmight have put it in less noble fashion:&quot;Better to have your enemies inside the tent pissing out,than outside the tent pissing in.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:但是事情很快变得明朗，林肯不容置疑地出任了这个放纵不羁的团队的首领因为每个人很快就意识到了林肯身上很多无与伦比的情感影响力和政治技巧这些与他那薄薄的履历相比更为重要首先，他有一种不寻常的能力设身处地的为他人考虑他修复那些受伤的心灵。以防那些心灵发展成永久的敌对心理。他把功劳与人分享，对下属的错误勇于承担责任，他总能承认自己的错误并总结经验教训这些都是我们希望在2008年的候选人身上找到的品质。（鼓掌）他从不因为微不足道的事情发怒。他从不嫉妒别人或者因小事计较。然而他那不可动摇的信仰渗透在日常的言谈，举止和经历中。语言的魅力，让他的表达几乎如同孩提时他钟爱的莎士比亚的诗歌一样完美
en:But it soon became clear that Abraham Lincolnwould emerge as the undisputed captain of this unruly team.For each of them soon came to understandthat he possessed an unparalleled array ofemotional strengths and political skillsthat proved far more important than the thinness of his external résumé.For one thing, he possessed an uncanny abilityto empathize with and to think about other peoples&#39; point of view.He repaired injured feelings that might have escalatedinto permanent hostility.He shared credit with ease,assumed responsibility for the failure of his subordinates,constantly acknowledged his errors and learned from his mistakes.These are the qualities we should be looking for in our candidates in 2008.(Applause)He refused to be provoked by petty grievances.He never submitted to jealousy or brooded over perceived slights.And he expressed his unshakeable convictionsin everyday language, in metaphors, in stories.And with a beauty of language — almost as ifthe Shakespeare and the poetry he had so loved as a childhad worked their way into his very soul.
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:1863年，解放黑人奴隶宣言颁布，他让老朋友约书亚·斯皮得重回白宫。他想起了几十年前最艰难时候他们之间的对话林肯指着那个宣言说，“我通过它，我最热切的希望就可以实现了。”但是，当他正要在宣言上签字的时候，他的手麻木了，不停地颤抖因为在那天早上的招待会上他已经握了一千次手。于是他把笔放下。说：“如果说我的灵魂存在于某个法案中，那就是这个法案。但是如果我用颤抖的手在上面签字的话，我们的后代会说：‘我犹豫了。’”所以，他一直等到手不再颤抖才拿起笔签上了坚定而清晰地一笔。但是即使是在他最大胆的梦想里，林肯也没有想到过他声名远扬的程度。
en:In 1863, when the Emancipation Proclamation was signed,he brought his old friend, Joshua Speed, back to the White House,and remembered that conversation of decades before, when he was so sad.And he, pointing to the Proclamation, said,&quot;I believe, in this measure, my fondest hopes will be realized.&quot;But as he was about to put his signature on the Proclamationhis own hand was numb and shakingbecause he had shaken a thousand hands that morning at a New Year&#39;s reception.So he put the pen down.He said, &quot;If ever my soul were in an act, it is in this act.But if I sign with a shaking hand,posterity will say, &#39;He hesitated.&#39;&quot;So he waited until he could take up the penand sign with a bold and clear hand.But even in his wildest dreams,Lincoln could never have imaginedhow far his reputation would reach.
时间： 6:30
zh-cn:我很惊讶地发现了一份20世纪早期，伟大的俄国作家列夫托尔斯泰被纽约一份报纸采访时的记录。在采访中，托尔斯泰提到了他最近一次去高加索的一个非常偏远的地区的旅行那里都全是些落后的村民，他们从来没有离开过俄罗斯的这一地区。当他们知道托尔斯泰来到那里后，就请他讲述历史上伟人的故事。托尔斯泰说：“我给他们讲拿破仑，亚历山大大帝和腓特烈大帝还有凯撒的故事，他们非常喜欢。但是在我将要结束之前，村民的首领站起来说：“且慢，你还没有给我们讲最伟大的统治者。我们想听那个人的故事，他讲话声音震耳欲聋；笑起来如旭日东升；他来自一个遥远的地方叫做美国。如果一个年轻人想要到达那里，要用一辈子的时间才能走到。给我们讲这个人的故事。给我们讲亚伯拉罕·林肯的故事。’”托尔斯泰震惊了他把所有他知道的关于林肯的事都告诉了他们。之后在这次采访中他说：“是什么让林肯如此伟大？（他的伟大）既不是拿破仑大将的军式伟大，也不是政治家腓特烈大帝式的伟大。然而，所有的历史学家都会肯定这一说法，他的伟大存在于他性格中的真诚、正直和他与生俱来的道德情操。
en:I was so thrilled to find an interview with the great Russian writer,Leo Tolstoy, in a New York newspaper in the early 1900s.And in it, Tolstoy told of a trip that he&#39;d recently madeto a very remote area of the Caucasus,where there were only wild barbarians,who had never left this part of Russia.Knowing that Tolstoy was in their midst,they asked him to tell stories of the great men of history.So he said, &quot;I told them about Napoleonand Alexander the Great and Frederick the Greatand Julius Caesar, and they loved it.But before I finished, the chief of the barbarians stood up and said,&#39;But wait, you haven&#39;t told us about the greatest ruler of them all.We want to hear about that man who spoke with a voice of thunder,who laughed like the sunrise,who came from that place called America, which is so far from here,that if a young man should travel there,he would be an old man when he arrived.Tell us of that man. Tell us of Abraham Lincoln.&#39;&quot;He was stunned.He told them everything he could about Lincoln.And then in the interview he said, &quot;What made Lincoln so great?Not as great a general as Napoleon,not as great a statesman as Frederick the Great.&quot;But his greatness consisted, and historians would roundly agree,in the integrity of his characterand the moral fiber of his being.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:所以最后他的雄心壮志那些曾经激励他走过悲惨童年的梦想终于实现了。这一梦想让他发奋图强并且鼓励他在一连串的政治失败和战争的黑暗中振作起来。他的故事应该被传颂。现在我们来讲第二方面，感情生活人们围绕着家人，朋友和同事，也需要经营和承诺我看到晚年的林登·约翰逊，那时候我帮他写回忆录。他是多年来一直追求工作，权力和个人成功的人。他几乎没有留下任何心灵或者感情上的财富来帮他度过那段不再是总统的时光。
en:So in the end that powerful ambitionthat had carried Lincoln through his bleak childhood had been realized.That ambition that had allowed him to laboriously educate himself by himself,to go through that string of political failuresand the darkest days of the war.His story would be told.So as for that second sphere, not of work, but of love —encompassing family, friends and colleagues —it, too, takes work and commitment.The Lyndon Johnson that I saw in the last years of his life,when I helped him on his memoirs,was a man who had spent so many years in the pursuit ofwork, power and individual success,that he had absolutely no psychic or emotional resources leftto get him through the daysonce the presidency was gone.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:我和他的关系开始于一段不寻常的经历。我24岁时被选为白宫学者。我们在白宫里举行了一个大型舞会。约翰逊总统那天晚上的确和我跳舞了其实没有我想象的那么不寻常，那时白宫的16位学者中只有3位女士。但是他也的确在我的耳边低语说，他希望我在白宫里直接为他工作。但是事情没有那么简单。因为在往后的选举岁月里，我就像众多的年轻人一样，积极参与到了反对越南战争的运动中，并且还写了一篇反对林登·约翰逊的文章，不幸的是，这篇文章出版在了《新共和》上，而这仅仅发生在白宫舞会的2天之后。（笑）那篇文章的主题是讲如何让林登·约翰逊下台。（笑）所以当时我坚信他会把我从白宫赶出来。但出乎意料的是，他说：“哦，让她在这里工作一年，如果我不能令她信服，别人也不能。”所以最后我还是在白宫里为他效力。最后我们一起去了他的农场写回忆录最终也没能弄明白为什么他会选择与我共度那么多的时光。
en:My relationship with him began on a rather curious level.I was selected as a White House Fellow when I was 24 years old.We had a big dance at the White House.President Johnson did dance with me that night.Not that peculiar —there were only three women out of the 16 White House Fellows.But he did whisper in my ear that he wanted meto work directly for him in the White House.But it was not to be that simple.For in the months leading up to my selection,like many young people, I&#39;d been activein the anti-Vietnam War movement,and had written an article against Lyndon Johnson,which unfortunately came out in The New Republictwo days after the dance in the White House.(Laugher)And the theme of the article was how to remove Lyndon Johnson from power.(Laughter)So I was certain he would kick me out of the program.But instead, surprisingly, he said,&quot;Oh, bring her down here for a year,and if I can&#39;t win her over, no one can.&quot;So I did end up working for him in the White House.Eventually accompanied him to his ranch to help him on those memoirs,never fully understanding why he&#39;d chosen me to spend so many hours with.
时间： 9:14
zh-cn:我倒是愿意相信那是因为我善于倾听。他是个讲故事的高手。他会讲很多非常有意思的奇闻轶事。当然这些故事也存在一些瑕疵，我后来才发现，那些故事有一半的情节是虚构的。但是不管怎么说，讲的时候感觉很好。（笑）因此我觉得他之所以能吸引我，部分原因是我喜欢听他讲故事。但是我也担心另外的原因—那时候我还是一个女孩子。而且他似乎还有些沾花惹草的名声。所以，我经常跟他聊男朋友的事情，尽管那时候我还没有男朋友。
en:I like to believe it was because I was a good listener.He was a great storyteller.Fabulous, colorful, anecdotal stories.There was a problem with these stories, however,which I later discovered, which is that half of them weren&#39;t true.But they were great, nonetheless.(Laughter)So I think that part of his attraction for me was that I loved listening to his tall tales.But I also worried that part of it was that I was then a young woman.And he had somewhat of a minor league womanizing reputation.So I constantly chatted to him about boyfriends,even when I didn&#39;t have any at all.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:我的工作进展得很顺利，直到有一天，他说他想跟我聊聊我们之间的关系。他带我去了湖边，我感觉有些不妙，那个湖叫做林登·贝恩斯·约翰逊湖。还有红酒，奶酪和红格子桌布，都是些很有浪漫情调饰品。他开始对我说“多丽丝，你比我所认识的所有女人都......”我的心沉了下来。然后他接着说：“你让我想起了我的妈妈。”（笑）
en:Everything was working perfectly,until one day he said he wanted to discuss our relationship.Sounded very ominous when he took me nearby to the lake,conveniently called Lake Lyndon Baines Johnson.And there was wine and cheese and a red-checked tablecloth —all the romantic trappings.And he started out,&quot;Doris, more than any other woman I have ever known ... &quot;And my heart sank.And then he said,&quot;You remind me of my mother.&quot;(Laughter)
时间：10:04
zh-cn:想到当时我脑子里想的东西，是在是太难为情了。但是我要说，随着年龄的增长，我更加识到这是一个怎样的荣幸，我有幸和这个男人中的王者共度了那么多时光。他在上千次的竞争中取胜，成功颁布三个伟大的民权法案，保健医疗法案，教育支援法案。最后却因越南战争被打得一派涂地。他为此非常悲伤并变得脆弱，他以从来不曾有过的方式向我倾诉一个如此官高权重的人和我分享他的恐惧、悲伤和忧虑我相信是这份荣幸让我欲罢不能。促使我去了解公众人物背后的内心世界，把我的感受写进书里。
en:It was pretty embarrassing, given what was going on in my mind.But I must say, the older I&#39;ve gotten,the more I realize what an incredible privilege it wasto have spent so many hours with this aging lion of a man.A victor in a thousand contests,three great civil rights laws, Medicare, aid to education.And yet, roundly defeated in the end by the war in Vietnam.And because he was so sad and so vulnerable,he opened up to me in ways he never would havehad I known him at the height of his power —sharing his fears, his sorrows and his worries.And I&#39;d like to believe that the privilege fired within methe drive to understand the inner person behind the public figure,that I&#39;ve tried to bring to each of my books since then.
时间：10:46
zh-cn:它也让我清楚地明白艾瑞克·埃克森曾试图向我们讲述的道理，—在生命中寻找平衡的重要性。因为，在表面上，林登·约翰逊本应该在他最后几年里拥有世间一切可以让他感觉良好的东西。他曾经被选举为总统。他有足够的金钱去挥霍他想要的任何东西。他在乡村拥有一块广阔的农场，在城市还有一栋阁楼，有很多帆船及快艇。有侍者对他言听计从，还有非常爱他的家人。
en:But it also brought home to me the lessonswhich Erik Erikson had tried to instill in all of usabout the importance of finding balance in life.For on the surface, Lyndon Johnson should have hadeverything in the world to feel good about in those last years,in the sense that he had been elected to the presidency;he had all the money he needed to pursueany leisure activity he wanted;he owned a spacious ranch in the countryside, a penthouse in the city,sailboats, speedboats.He had servants to answer any whim,and he had a family who loved him deeply.
时间：11:17
zh-cn:但是，几多年的专心于工作和追求个人成功意味着当他退休之后，他就不能在家庭，娱乐，体育和兴趣方面找到安慰。就像在他的心里有个很大的洞以至于没有了工作的充实，即使家人的爱也不能将它填满。他的精神变得无比空虚，身体状况也每况愈下直到后来慢慢死去在后来的这些年里，他说他很悲伤因为看到那么多的美国人满心期待新总统的出现而将他遗忘。他说话时声音里满是悲伤，说也许他本应该花更多的时间跟孩子们一起，和孩子的孩子们在一起。但这一切都已经晚了。尽管他获得了那么大的权力，那么多的财富，到最后还是孤独地死去他最害怕的事情还是出现了。
en:And yet, years of concentration solely on work and individual successmeant that in his retirement he could find no solacein family, in recreation, in sports or in hobbies.It was almost as if the hole in his heart was so largethat even the love of a family, without work, could not fill it.As his spirits sagged, his body deteriorateduntil, I believe, he slowly brought about his own death.In those last years, he said he was so sadwatching the American people look toward a new president and forgetting him.He spoke with immense sadness in his voice,saying maybe he should have spent more time with his children,and their children in turn.But it was too late.Despite all that power, all that wealth,he was alone when he finally died —his ultimate terror realized.
时间：12:02
zh-cn:我要讲的第三个方面就是娱乐这一点约翰逊从来没有学着去享用过。在这些年里我懂得了即使是娱乐也是需要投入时间和精力的。时间和精力都具备了，你的爱好、体育、对音乐的喜好、对艺术或者文学的喜爱或者其它的任何一种娱乐方式才能真正创造乐趣和轻松的感觉，也才可以提供精神的补给。爱之深应该如同亚伯拉罕·林肯对莎士比亚的爱他曾抽出一百多个夜晚去剧院，即使是在战争的黑暗时期。他说，只要灯一灭，莎士比亚的剧目一开演，他就会在这宝贵的几个小时里想象自己回到了哈尔王子的时代。
en:So as for that third sphere of play,which he never had learned to enjoy,I&#39;ve learned over the yearsthat even this sphere requires a commitment of time and energy —enough so that a hobby, a sport, a love of music,or art, or literature, or any form of recreation,can provide true pleasure, relaxation and replenishment.So deep, for instance, was Abraham Lincoln&#39;s love of Shakespeare,that he made time to spend more than a hundred nights in the theater,even during those dark days of the war.He said, when the lights went down and a Shakespeare play came on,for a few precious hours he could imagine himselfback in Prince Hal&#39;s time.
时间：12:40
zh-cn:林登-约翰逊却从来没能享受过的一种非常重要的放松方式就是幽默他不能感知出生命的欢乐无法点亮悲伤。林肯曾经说过因为他笑所以他不会哭，说对他来说一则好故事胜过一瓶威士忌酒。他讲故事的本领是在伊利诺伊州的马戏团的时候被发现的。律师和法官会从一个国家的法庭行到另一个法庭，那时只要有一个人知道林肯就在镇上，他们会从几英里外的地方赶过来听他讲故事。他会站在那里背靠着火堆，讲着情节曲折的故事娱乐群众。所有的这些故事都成了他记忆库的一部分，所以每当有机会的时候，他会信手拈来这些都不是你能够从大理石纪念碑上找到的。
en:But an even more important form of relaxation for him,that Lyndon Johnson never could enjoy,was a love of — somehow — humor,and feeling out what hilarious parts of life can produceas a sidelight to the sadness.He once said that he laughed so he did not cry,that a good story, for him, was better than a drop of whiskey.His storytelling powers had first been recognizedwhen he was on the circuit in Illinois.The lawyers and the judges would travelfrom one county courthouse to the other,and when anyone was knowing Lincoln was in town,they would come from miles around to listen to him tell stories.He would stand with his back against a fireand entertain the crowd for hours with his winding tales.And all these stories became part of his memory bank,so he could call on them whenever he needed to.And they&#39;re not quite what you might expect from our marble monument.
时间：13:26
zh-cn:例如，他最喜欢的故事之一，就与革命战争英雄伊桑·艾伦有关。林肯讲这个故事的时候，艾伦先生在战后就去了英国。那时候英国人民还为输掉了革命而忿忿不平，所以它们决定给他点难看于是就把华盛顿将军的巨幅照片挂在了唯一的外间，他每天的必经之所。他们认为他一定会生气看到华盛顿将军的被放在了外屋。但是他出了外屋却一点都不生气，他们就问；“您没有在那里看到华盛顿将军吗？”“哦，看到了啊。”他说，“那个位置再适合他不过了。”“您什么意思？”他们说。“好吧，”他说，“看看华盛顿大将军，最能让英国佬屁滚尿流了。”（笑）（鼓掌）
en:One of his favorite stories, for example,had to do with the Revolutionary War hero, Ethan Allen.And as Lincoln told the story,Mr. Allen went to Britain after the war.And the British people were still upsetabout losing the Revolution,so they decided to embarrass him a little bitby putting a huge picture of General Washingtonin the only outhouse, where he&#39;d have to encounter it.They figured he&#39;d be upset about the indignityof George Washington being in an outhouse.But he came out of the outhouse not upset at all.And so they said, &quot;Well, did you see George Washington in there?&quot;&quot;Oh, yes,&quot; he said, &quot;perfectly appropriate place for him.&quot;&quot;What do you mean?&quot; they said.&quot;Well,&quot; he said, &quot;there&#39;s nothing to make an Englishman shitfaster than the sight of General George Washington.&quot;(Laughter)(Applause)
时间：14:09
zh-cn:所以，你可以想象得到，如果在一场紧张的内阁会议里你也参与其中-听他讲成百上千的这样的趣事你一定会感到轻松。在他晚间去剧院的周折中，在他的故事以及绝妙的幽默感还有他对莎士比亚和诗歌的热爱中，他找到了那种可以陪伴他一生的娱乐方式。在我的一生中，我总是为我对棒球的热爱心存感激这个爱好让我从春天训练一开始到秋天结束，都有可以充实思想和心灵的东西在工作之外。
en:So you can imagine, if you are in the middle of a tense cabinet meeting —and he had hundreds of these stories —you would have to relax.So between his nightly treks to the theater,his story telling, and his extraordinary sense of humorand his love of quoting Shakespeare and poetry,he found that form of play which carried him through his days.In my own life, I shall always be gratefulfor having found a form of play in my irrational love of baseball.Which allows me, from the beginning of spring trainingto the end of the fall,to have something to occupy my mind and heartother than my work.
时间：14:44
zh-cn:那是在我六岁的时候，爸爸一边教我计分的技巧一边收听棒球比赛。所以当他白天去纽约工作时我可以帮他记录那天下午布鲁克林道奇队的比赛。现在，试想你也仅仅是个六岁的孩子，你爸爸每天晚上回家都会听你讲—-我现在意识到当时我有多么细致地记录每一场比赛的细节甚至每一个围垒重新计分。爸爸让我感觉我在给他讲一个非常不错的故事。我当时感觉必然有什么奇妙的东西可以得到父亲的关注。
en:It all began when I was only six years old,and my father taught me that mysterious art of keeping scorewhile listening to baseball games —so that when he went to work in New York during the day,I could record for him the history of that afternoon&#39;sBrooklyn Dodgers game.Now, when you&#39;re only six years old,and your father comes home every single nightand listens to you — as I now realize that I, in excruciating detail,recounted every single play of every inningof the game that had just taken place that afternoon.But he made me feel I was telling him a fabulous story.It makes you think there&#39;s something magic about historyto keep your father&#39;s attention.
时间：15:14
zh-cn:事实上，我相信我学会了一种讲故事的技巧而这些技巧就是在和我父亲晚上谈话中学来的。因为刚开始，我会很激动地脱口而出：“道奇队赢了！”或者，“道奇队输掉了！”这一说就让本可以讲两个小时的精彩比赛变得毫无悬念。（笑）所以我最终明白讲故事就要从开始到中间再到最后。我想说，在那些日子里我对布鲁克林道奇队的爱是如此的真挚，所以在我第一次做忏悔的时候我就必须坦白关于棒球我有两个罪过。
en:In fact, I&#39;m convinced I learned the narrative artfrom those nightly sessions with my father.Because at first, I&#39;d be so excited I would blurt out,&quot;The Dodgers won!&quot; or, &quot;The Dodgers lost!&quot;Which took much of the drama of this two-hour telling away.(Laughter)So I finally learned you had to tell a storyfrom beginning to middle to end.I must say, so fervent was my loveof the old Brooklyn Dodgers in those daysthat I had to confess in my first confessiontwo sins that related to baseball.
时间：15:38
zh-cn:第一件是因为道奇队的捕手罗伊内拉去了我的家乡洛克维尔中心，长岛那时候我正在准备我的第一次圣餐。那时的我太激动了他是我在Ebbets球场之外见到的第一个明星。当他在清教徒的教堂里说话的时候。你可以想象一下，你身为天主教徒却要去清教徒教堂听演讲，你会在门槛旁就被打死的。所以我抹着眼泪去找爸爸：“我该怎么办呀？”他说：“别担心。他现在在教区大厅里演讲，我们就坐在折叠椅上。听他讲运动精神。这算不得罪过。”但是那天晚上离开后，我就确信我已经用我永恒的灵魂生命在那一晚上与罗伊内拉进行了交换。（笑）那时候我不能在家附近买到赎罪券。所以就带着这个罪恶去做了我的第一次忏悔。我讲了这件事给牧师。牧师说：“没关系。那并不是宗教仪式。”讲完之后他说：“孩子，还有别的吗？”
en:The first occurred because the Dodgers&#39; catcher, Roy Campanella,came to my hometown of Rockville Centre, Long Island,just as I was in preparation for my first Holy Communion.And I was so excited —first person I&#39;d ever see outside of Ebbets Field.But it so happened he was speaking in a Protestant Church.When you are brought up as a Catholic, you thinkthat if you ever set foot in a Protestant Church,you&#39;ll be struck dead at the threshold.So I went to my father in tears, &quot;What are we going to do?&quot;He said, &quot;Don&#39;t worry. He&#39;s speaking in a parish hall.We&#39;re sitting in folding chairs. He&#39;s talking about sportsmanship.It&#39;s not a sin.&quot;But as I left that night, I was certain that somehowI&#39;d traded the life of my everlasting soulfor this one night with Roy Campanella.(Laughter)And there were no indulgences around that I could buy.So I had this sin on my soul when I went to my first confession.I told the priest right away.He said, &quot;No problem. It wasn&#39;t a religious service.&quot;But then, unfortunately, he said, &quot;And what else, my child?&quot;
时间：16:25
zh-cn:于是我开始讲我的第二宗罪。我试着在教堂里尽量说的简明扼要我试图伤害别人，对我姐姐严厉刻薄牧师说：“你想伤害谁？”我说，我想要纽约扬基队的球员摔断胳膊，腿还有脚踝—（笑）-这样布鲁克林道奇队就可以赢得第一次世界联赛了。他说：“你多久会有一次这样可怕的愿望？”我不得不承认，在我每天晚上做祷告的时候都有。（笑）他说：“恩，我要告诉你一些事情。我和你一样喜爱布鲁克林道奇队，但我向你保证终有一天他们会通过公平竞争的方式赢得胜利。我们不能期待别人受伤而赢得比赛”恩，好吧。”我说。真的很幸运，我的第一次忏悔是向一位喜爱棒球的牧师！（笑）
en:And then came my second sin.I tried to sandwich it in between talking too much in church,wishing harm to others, being mean to my sisters.And he said, &quot;To whom did you wish harm?&quot;And I had to say that I wished that various New York Yankees playerswould break arms, legs and ankles —(Laughter)— so that the Brooklyn Dodgers could win their first World Series.He said, &quot;How often do you make these horrible wishes?&quot;And I had to say, every night when I said my prayers.(Laughter)So he said, &quot;Look, I&#39;ll tell you something.I love the Brooklyn Dodgers, as you do,but I promise you some day they will win fairly and squarely.You do not need to wish harm on others to make it happen.&quot;&quot;Oh yes,&quot; I said.But luckily, my first confession — to a baseball-loving priest!(Laughter)
时间：17:02
zh-cn:尽管我的父亲死于一场突发的心脏病，那时候我还只有20多岁，我还没有结婚也还没有我现在的三个儿子。我把对父亲的怀念和他对棒球的喜爱都讲给了我的儿子们听。尽管道奇队离开我们去了洛杉矶，我也在搬到波士顿之前对棒球失去了信仰从而默默地变成了一个“红袜子”的粉丝。我要说，即使是现在，每当我和儿子们坐在一起手握季度球票的时候，我会闭上眼睛面朝太阳设想我自己，又变成一个小姑娘，和父亲一起看着我年轻时的队员们在下面的绿茵场上比赛，杰基·罗宾逊，罗伊·内拉，佩厄·凌晨·里斯，杜克·施奈德。
en:Well, though my father died of a sudden heart attackwhen I was still in my 20s,before I had gotten married and had my three sons,I have passed his memory — as well as his love of baseball — on to my boys.Though when the Dodgers abandoned us to come to L.A.,I lost faith in baseball until I moved to Bostonand became an irrational Red Socks fan.And I must say, even now, when I sit with my sonswith our season tickets,I can sometimes close my eyes against the sunand imagine myself, a young girl once more, in the presence of my father,watching the players of my youth on the grassy fields below:Jackie Robinson, Roy Campanella, Pee Wee Reese, and Duke Snider.
时间：17:40
zh-cn:那是一段多么美妙的时光当我睁开眼睛看到我的孩子们他们坐在父亲曾经坐过的地方。我能感受到一种由衷的感动和情感。这种情感联系着我的儿子和他们未曾谋面的祖父，我相信他们之间早已心意相通因为我给孩子们讲过的故事。这也是为什么我总心存感激，感激我对历史的好奇和热爱它让我可以在一生都能看到过去的事情，也是它让我能够从过去的伟大人物身上学习他们努力追求人生的意义。也让我能够相信那些曾经爱过的后来又离开的我们的亲人，还有那些值得我们尊敬的历史人物例如亚伯拉罕·林肯，得以永垂不朽我们反复讲述他们的生命的故事。谢谢你们今天听我讲的这些故事。（鼓掌）谢谢。
en:I must say there is magic in these moments.When I open my eyes and I see my sonsin the place where my father once sat,I feel an invisible loyalty and lovelinking my sons to the grandfather whose face they never had a chance to see,but whose heart and soul they have come to knowthrough all the stories I have told.Which is why, in the end, I shall always be grateful for this curious love of history,allowing me to spend a lifetime looking back into the past.Allowing me to learn from these large figuresabout the struggle for meaning for life.Allowing me to believe that the private peoplewe have loved and lost in our families,and the public figures we have respected in our history,just as Abraham Lincoln wanted to believe,really can live on, so long as we pledgeto tell and to retell the stories of their lives.Thank you for letting me be that storyteller today.(Applause)Thank you.
