时间： 0:11
zh-cn:一群角马,一群鱼，一群鸟。许多动物群居生活那些都是大自然中最令人惊叹的奇观。但是为什么形成这些群落？通常的说法包括获得安全，或者方便捕猎或者聚集交配繁殖，这些所有解释虽然通常正确但对动物行为做出了一个重要假设，那就是动物掌控它们的行为，并掌控它们的身体。但是通常事实并不是这样。
en:A herd of wildebeests, a shoal of fish,a flock of birds.Many animals gather in large groupsthat are among the most wonderful spectaclesin the natural world.But why do these groups form?The common answers include things likeseeking safety in numbers or hunting in packsor gathering to mate or breed,and all of these explanations,while often true,make a huge assumption about animal behavior,that the animals are in control of their own actions,that they are in charge of their bodies.And that is often not the case.
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:这是卤虫，一种盐水虾。你们也许更通常地称它为海猴子。它很小，典型的独居类型，但是它可以聚集在这些大的红色群落中其范围可达数米，这些的产生是因为一种寄生虫。这些虾子被一种绦虫寄生了。绦虫实际上是一条长长的活着的肠子它一端是生殖器，另一端是钩状的嘴。作为一个自由撰稿人，我对它感到同情。（笑声）绦虫从卤虫的体内摄取养分但它也做别的事情它阉割卤虫,它将卤虫从透明变为赤红色,它延长卤虫的寿命,就像考古学家尼古拉斯·罗德所发现的绦虫让它们成群出没.为什么呢？因为绦虫像很多别的寄生虫一样，有着复杂的生命周期其中包括不同的寄主.这些虾子只是它们旅程中的一步.它们最终的目标是更大的火烈鸟。绦虫只有在火烈鸟体内才可以繁殖，所以为了去那里，它操纵虾子寄主们形成这些显眼的有色群落让火烈鸟更容去发现并吞食。这就是卤虫群的秘密。他们不是因为自身意志而聚集起来的，而是因为被操纵。这不是用大数量去获得安全。这恰恰相反。这些绦虫劫持了卤虫们的大脑和身体，把它们变成交通工具以便于让它们进入到一只火烈鸟的体内。
en:This is Artemia, a brine shrimp.You probably know it better as a sea monkey.It&#39;s small, and it typically lives alone,but it can gather in these large red swarmsthat span for meters,and these form because of a parasite.These shrimp are infected with a tapeworm.A tapeworm is effectively a long, living gutwith genitals at one end anda hooked mouth at the other.As a freelance journalist, I sympathize.(Laughter)The tapeworm drains nutrients from Artemia&#39;s body,but it also does other things.It castrates them,it changes their color from transparent to bright red,it makes them live longer,and as biologist Nicolas Rode has found,it makes them swim in groups.Why? Because the tapeworm,like many other parasites,has a complicated life cycleinvolving many different hosts.The shrimp are just one step on its journey.Its ultimate destination is this,the greater flamingo.Only in a flamingo can the tapeworm reproduce,so to get there, it manipulates its shrimp hostsinto forming these conspicuous colored swarmsthat are easier for a flamingo to spotand to devour,and that is the secret of the Artemia swarm.They aren&#39;t sociable through their own volition,but because they are being controlled.It&#39;s not safety in numbers.It&#39;s actually the exact opposite.The tapeworm hijacks their brains and their bodies,turning them into vehiclesfor getting itself into a flamingo.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:这里有另外一个关于寄生操控的例子.这是一个自杀蟋蟀。这只蟋蟀吞下了戈尔迪乌斯线虫或是马鬃虫的幼虫。虫子在蟋蟀体内长大成年，但是它需要到水中进行交配，为了完成繁殖，它通过释放一种扰乱蟋蟀大脑的蛋白质，使其行为不定。当蟋蟀靠近水体时，例如这个游泳池，它会跳入，并溺死，然后虫子从自杀蟋蟀尸体内蠕动出来。蟋蟀总是胸怀宽广。谁知道呢？
en:And here is another exampleof a parasitic manipulation.This is a suicidal cricket.This cricket swallowed the larvae of a Gordian worm,or horsehair worm.The worm grew to adult size within it,but it needs to get into water in order to mate,and it does that by releasing proteinsthat addle the cricket&#39;s brain,causing it to behave erratically.When the cricket nears a body of water,such as this swimming pool,it jumps in and drowns,and the worm wriggles outof its suicidal corpse.Crickets are really roomy. Who knew?
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:绦虫和毛细线虫并不孤单。它们是全部专于暗中破坏，压倒寄主意志操控真菌，病毒，蠕虫，昆虫和更多其它生物的，寄生虫中的一部分。在二十年前我通过大卫·阿滕伯勒的纪录片《生命的审判》首次了解到到关于这种生活方式，之后通过我的朋友卡尔 基默写的一本叫做《寄生虫雷克斯》书的对其进一步了解。从那时起我就一直在写关于这些生物。没有别的什么生物学话题能更让我着迷。这就像寄生虫已经颠覆了我的大脑。因为毕竟，它们总是在控制并且令人欣喜的毛骨肃然。当你描写寄生虫时，你的用词里充满了这样的短语，”活活吞吃“和“从它的身体里炸出”。（笑声）
en:The tapeworm and the Gordian worm are not alone.They are part of an entire cavalcadeof mind-controlling parasites,of fungi, viruses, and worms and insects and morethat all specialize in subverting and overridingthe wills of their hosts.Now, I first learned about this way of lifethrough David Attenborough&#39;s &quot;Trials of Life&quot;about 20 years ago,and then later through a wonderful book called&quot;Parasite Rex&quot; by my friend Carl Zimmer.And I&#39;ve been writing aboutthese creatures ever since.Few topics in biology enthrall me more.It&#39;s like the parasites have subverted my own brain.Because after all, they are always compellingand they are delightfully macabre.When you write about parasites,your lexicon swells with phrases like&quot;devoured alive&quot; and &quot;bursts out of its body.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:但是远远不止这些。我是一个作家，观众席中的作家同伙们知道我们热爱故事。寄生虫使我们去排斥浅而易见的故事的诱惑。它们的世界充满着扭曲的情节，和出人意料解释。举个例子，为什么这只毛毛虫当另外一直昆虫靠近它时开始剧烈地颤动并且像那些白色茧的护卫一样？难道它在保护兄弟姐妹？不对。这只毛毛虫受到了一只其在体内产卵的寄生蜂的攻击。卵孵化后，幼蜂们将其活活地吞吃再冲破其身体出来。现在知道（我之前）什么意思了吧？但是，毛毛虫没有死。有些马蜂们留了下来，并继续控制毛毛虫去保护它们正在变态到成虫过程中茧内的兄弟姐妹们。这只毛毛虫是一个保护着杀死它的生物的后代的甩头僵尸保镖。
en:But there&#39;s more to it than that.I&#39;m a writer, and fellow writers in the audiencewill know that we love stories.Parasites invite us to resist the allureof obvious stories.Their world is one of plot twistsand unexpected explanations.Why, for example,does this caterpillarstart violently thrashing aboutwhen another insect gets close to itand those white cocoons that it seemsto be standing guard over?Is it maybe protecting its siblings?No.This caterpillar was attackedby a parasitic wasp which laid eggs inside it.The eggs hatched and the young waspsdevoured the caterpillar alivebefore bursting out of its body.See what I mean?Now, the caterpillar didn&#39;t die.Some of the wasps seemed to stay behindand controlled it into defending their siblingswhich are metamorphosinginto adults within those cocoons.This caterpillar is a head-banging zombie bodyguarddefending the offspringof the creature that killed it.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 4:52
zh-cn:我们还有很多要说。我只有13分钟.（笑声）
en:We have a lot to get through. I only have 13 minutes. (Laughter)
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:现在，你们中有些人大概正因为这样的一些自然中的怪异的事物和局外者，绝望地搜寻一些安慰这个观点是可以理解的，因为，寄生虫体型微小并且很大一部分时间生活在在其他动物的体内。它们容易被忽略，但这不意味着它们不重要。几年前，一个叫做凯文·拉弗蒂的人带领一组科学家前往三个加州的河口它们基本上将所有发现的东西称重，解剖，并记录，他们所发现的是寄生虫的数量极为巨大。最常见的是吸虫，它们是小小的蠕虫，专阉割它们寄主就像这只不幸的蜗牛。单单一条吸虫是小的，微观的但是它们集合起来和河口中的鱼等重并且是所有鸟重量的三至九倍。还记得我之前向你们展示的戈尔迪乌斯线虫，和那个蟋蟀么？一位叫佐藤拓也的日本科学家在一条溪流中发现,这些条虫使这么多蟋蟀和蚱蜢淹死在水中以至于为当地的鲤鱼提供了百分之六十的日常饮食.操控不是一种异常的现象这是我们身边普遍并且至关重要的一部分,科学家现在已近发现成百上千这样操控者的例子,更让人激动的是，他们开始去理解这些生物是具体是如何控制它们的寄主的。
en:Now, some of you are probably justdesperately clawing for some solacein the idea that these things are odditiesof the natural world, that they are outliers,and that point of view is understandable,because by their nature, parasites are quite smalland they spend a lot of their timeinside the bodies of other things.They&#39;re easy to overlook,but that doesn&#39;t mean that they aren&#39;t important.A few years back, a man called Kevin Laffertytook a group of scientistsinto three Californian estuariesand they pretty much weighed and dissectedand recorded everything they could find,and what they foundwere parasites in extreme abundance.Especially common were trematodes,tiny worms that specialize in castrating their hostslike this unfortunate snail.Now, a single trematode is tiny, microscopic,but collectively they weighed as muchas all the fish in the estuariesand three to nine times more than all the birds.And remember the Gordian worm that I showed you,the cricket thing?One Japanese scientist called Takuya Satofound that in one stream,these things drive so many cricketsand grasshoppers into the waterthat the drowned insectsmake up some 60 percent of the diet of local trout.Manipulation is not an oddity.It is a critical and common partof the world around us,and scientists have now foundhundreds of examples of such manipulators,and more excitingly, they&#39;re starting to understandexactly how these creatures control their hosts.
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:这我最喜欢的例子之一，这是扁头泥蜂，翡翠蟑螂蜂，载有受精卵的蟑螂蜂肯定需要一只蟑螂是一个被普遍接受的事实。当蟑螂蜂找到一只蟑螂，她会用刺蛰蟑螂，那根刺又是一个感觉器官。这个发现三周前才出来。她用具感觉器官的刺蛰蟑螂这个器官上有着小的突起物可以让蟑螂蜂感觉到蟑螂大脑中不同的质地。就像一个人在袋子里盲目地乱摸，蟑螂蜂找到蟑螂的大脑，将毒液注射到两簇非常具体的神经元中。以色列科学家弗雷德里克拉波塞特和莱姆加尔发现这个毒液是一种非常特别的化学武器。它不会杀死蟑螂，也不会让其昏昏欲睡。蟑螂如果想的话可以选择走开，飞走，或跑开，但是它没有选择这样做，因为那个毒液使其丧失了走的意愿，只是那样。蟑螂蜂大体上关闭了蟑螂神经系统中逃避危险的本能，让蟑螂蜂能够借助蟑螂的触角领着她无助的受害者回到她巢穴，就像一个人遛狗一样。蟑螂一到那里，蟑螂蜂就在其体内产一个卵，卵孵化了，幼虫将蟑螂活生生吞吃，并从其身体中迸发出来，吧啦吧啦叭啦叭啦，你们知道的。（笑声）（掌声）
en:And this is one of my favorite examples.This is Ampulex compressa,the emerald cockroach wasp,and it is a truth universally acknowledgedthat an emerald cockroach wasp in possessionof some fertilized eggsmust be in want of a cockroach.When she finds one,she stabs it with a stingerthat is also a sense organ.This discovery came out three weeks ago.She stabs it with a stinger that is a sense organequipped with small sensory bumpsthat allow her to feel the distinctive textureof a roach&#39;s brain.So like a person blindly rooting about in a bag,she finds the brain, and she injects it with venominto two very specific clusters of neurons.Israeli scientists Frederic Libersat and Ram Galfound that the venom is avery specific chemical weapon.It doesn&#39;t kill the roach, nor does it sedate it.The roach could walk awayor fly or run if it chose to,but it doesn&#39;t choose to,because the venom nixes its motivation to walk,and only that.The wasp basically un-checksthe escape-from-danger boxin the roach&#39;s operating system,allowing her to lead her helpless victimback to her lair by its antennaelike a person walking a dog.And once there, she lays an egg on it,egg hatches, devoured alive, bursts out of body,yadda yadda yadda, you know the drill.(Laughter) (Applause)
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:我认为，蟑螂一旦被刺它就不再是一只蟑螂了。它更像是蟑螂蜂的一个延伸体，就像蟋蟀是戈尔迪乌斯线虫的延伸体一样。这些寄主们不能生还和繁殖。它们对命运的掌握就像我的车的命运被我掌握一样。一旦寄生虫进入其体内，寄主就失去了发言权。
en:Now I would argue that, once stung,the cockroach isn&#39;t a roach anymore.It&#39;s more of an extension of the wasp,just like the cricket was anextension of the Gordian worm.These hosts won&#39;t get to survive or reproduce.They have as much control over their own fatesas my car.Once the parasites get in,the hosts don&#39;t get a say.
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:当然人类对于操控并不陌生。我们用药物移动我们大脑中的化学物质去改变我们的心情，有什么辩论或者广告或者伟大的想法不企图去影响其他人的思想呢?但是我们对其的尝试和那些寄生虫天衣无缝的专一性相比是不成熟的。唐德雷珀只是希望他可以像翠绿的蟑螂蜂一样优雅和精确。我认为这是让寄生虫如此险恶并如此引人注意一部分原因。我们如此珍视我们的自由意志和独立以至于我们在不可见力下失去那些品质的可能性。揭示了许多我们最深处的社会恐慌。奥威尔反乌托邦作品，神出鬼没的阴谋组织和会大脑操控的超级恶棍—这些都是充斥着我们邪恶小说中的比喻，但是在自然中，它们无时无刻不在发生。
en:Now humans, of course,are no stranger to manipulation.We take drugs to shift the chemistries of our brainsand to change our moods,and what are arguments or advertising or big ideasif not an attempt to influence someone else&#39;s mind?But our attempts at doing thisare crude and blundering comparedto the fine-grained specificity of the parasites.Don Draper only wishes he was as elegantand precise as the emerald cockroach wasp.Now, I think this is part of what makes parasitesso sinister and so compelling.We place such a premium on our free willand our independencethat the prospect of losing those qualitiesto forces unseeninforms many of our deepest societal fears.Orwellian dystopias and shadowy cabalsand mind-controlling supervillains —these are tropes that fill our darkest fiction,but in nature, they happen all the time.
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:这让我提出了一个明显又令人不安的问题：除了美国国家安全局还有没有邪恶的寄生虫在我们不知道的情况下影响着我们的行为？如果有的话—（笑声）（掌声）现在估计有人想把我灭了吧？（笑声）
en:Which leads me to an obviousand disquieting question:Are there dark, sinister parasitesthat are influencing our behaviorwithout us knowing about it,besides the NSA?If there are any —(Laughter) (Applause)I&#39;ve got a red dot on my forehead now, don&#39;t I?(Laughter)
时间： 9:29
zh-cn:如果有，这是一个非常好的候选人。这是弓形虫，简称弓虫令人毛骨悚然的生物总是值得有一个可爱的名字。弓虫会感染哺乳类动物，各种各样哺乳动物，但是它只可以在猫体内有性繁殖。像乔安妮 韦伯斯特这样的科学家已经证明了如果弓虫进入到老鼠体内它会将这个捏齿类动物变成寻猫导弹。如果被感染的老鼠问到了美妙的猫尿的味道，它就会跑向那气味的发源地而不是聪明的逃跑。猫吃了老鼠。弓虫去交配。这是饮食，猎物，和爱情之间的经典故事。（笑点在于：这三个词的发音与一本畅销小说《美食、祈祷和恋爱》相似）（笑声）（掌声）
en:If there are any, this is a good candidate for them.This is Toxoplasma gondii, or Toxo, for short,because the terrifying creaturealways deserves a cute nickname.Toxo infects mammals,a wide variety of mammals,but it can only sexually reproduce in a cat.And scientists like Joanne Webster have shown thatif Toxo gets into a rat or a mouse,it turns the rodent into a cat-seeking missile.If the infected rat smells the delightful odorof cat piss,it runs towards the source of the smellrather than the more sensible direction of away.The cat eats the rat. Toxo gets to have sex.It&#39;s a classic tale of Eat, Prey, Love.(Laughter) (Applause)
时间：10:18
zh-cn:你们都是善良慷慨的人啊。嗨，伊丽莎白（《美食，祈祷和恋爱》的作者)，我很喜欢你的演讲。
en:You&#39;re very charitable, generous people.Hi, Elizabeth, I loved your talk.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:寄生虫是怎样在这种方式下操纵其寄主的？我不真正了解。但我们知道弓虫释放一种酶这种酶制造一种涉及奖励与动机的物质—多巴胺我们知道这种酶把老鼠大脑中特定的部分作为目标包括那些涉及性冲动部分。但这些拼图的碎片是怎样拼在一起的现在还不是很清楚。清楚的是，弓虫是单细胞生物。它没有神经系统。它没有意识。它甚至连一个身体都没有。但是它却在操控一只哺乳动物？我们都是哺乳动物。毫无疑问，我们比老鼠更加智慧但是我们大脑有着相同的基础构造，同类型的细胞，同样的在其中穿梭的化学物质，以及同样的寄生虫。（对其的）推测各不相同，但数据显示全世界三分之一的人大脑里有弓虫。很典型的是，它们不会导致任何显性病症。寄生虫在很长的一段时间里保持休眠状态。但是有一些证据显示，那些是寄生虫载体的人在性格调查问卷中和其他人得分略有不同，他们有稍微高一些车祸风险，有些证据显示精神分裂症的人更容易被感染。我认为这个证据是没有什么结果的，而且在弓虫的调查人员之间对于是否寄生虫真正影响我们的行为存在着争议。但鉴于这种操控的普遍性，人类作为唯一没有相同症状的物种是难以置信的。
en:How does the parasite control its hostin this way?We don&#39;t really know.We know that Toxo releases an enzymethat makes dopamine, a substance involvedin reward and motivation.We know it targets certain parts of a rodent&#39;s brain,including those involved in sexual arousal.But how those puzzle pieces fit togetheris not immediately clear.What is clear is that this thingis a single cell.This has no nervous system.It has no consciousness.It doesn&#39;t even have a body.But it&#39;s manipulating a mammal?We are mammals.We are more intelligent than a mere rat, to be sure,but our brains have the same basic structure,the same types of cells,the same chemicals running through them,and the same parasites.Estimates vary a lot, but some figures suggestthat one in three people around the worldhave Toxo in their brains.Now typically, this doesn&#39;t lead to any overt illness.The parasite holds up in a dormant statefor a long period of time.But there&#39;s some evidence that those peoplewho are carriers score slightly differentlyon personality questionnaires than other people,that they have a slightly higher risk of car accidents,and there&#39;s some evidencethat people with schizophreniaare more likely to be infected.Now, I think this evidence is still inconclusive,and even among Toxo researchers,opinion is divided as to whether the parasiteis truly influencing our behavior.But given the widespreadnature of such manipulations,it would be completely implausiblefor humans to be the only speciesthat weren&#39;t similarly affected.
时间：11:53
zh-cn:我认为这种能够颠覆我们对这个世界思想方式的能力让寄生虫十分迷人。它们不停地使我们从侧面去看大自然并使我们去质疑所目睹的行为，无论它们是简单明了，还是令人费解的，是否不是我们我们按照自己意愿去行动的结果，而是因为它们被歪曲进而去控制别的东西的结果。当这个想法令人不安时当寄生虫的行为冷人毛骨悚然时，我想那个让我们惊讶的能力使它们像任何熊猫，蝴蝶，或是海豚一样美好和有魅力。
en:And I think that this capacity to constantlysubvert our way of thinking about the worldmakes parasites amazing.They&#39;re constantly inviting us tolook at the natural world sideways,and to ask if the behaviors we&#39;re seeing,whether they&#39;re simple and obviousor baffling and puzzling,are not the results of individualsacting through their own accordbut because they are being bentto the control of something else.And while that idea may be disquieting,and while parasites&#39; habits may be very grisly,I think that ability to surprise usmakes them as wonderful and as charismaticas any panda or butterfly or dolphin.
时间：12:32
zh-cn:在“关于物种起源”的结尾，查尔斯·达尔文写到了关于生命的辉煌，和无尽的最美丽的最美好的形态的辉煌。我认为，他很有可能在说让虾子社会化的绦虫，或者是带着蟑螂散步的马蜂。
en:At the end of &quot;On the Origin of Species,&quot;Charles Darwin writes about the grandeur of life,and of endless forms most beautifuland most wonderful,and I like to think he could easily have been talkingabout a tapeworm that makes shrimp sociableor a wasp that takes cockroaches for walks.
时间：12:51
zh-cn:但是，也许我所说的只是被寄生虫操控的结果罢了。
en:But perhaps, that&#39;s just a parasite talking.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
