时间： 0:11
zh-cn:你们之中有多少人去过岩洞？当然，只有少数人。说起岩洞，多数人会想到一个隧道，周围都是岩石。实际上，大多数岩洞是这样的。这个国家的这半部分，大多数岩洞是由石灰石组成的。在我的家乡，大多数岩洞是由岩浆岩组成的。因为那里有很多火山。但是我今天与你分享的岩洞是完全由冰组成的，特别是冰川冰。位于俄勒冈州最高山——胡德山的一侧。
en:So how many of you have everbeen in a cave before?Okay, a few of you.When you think of a cave, most of you thinkof a tunnel going through solid rock,and in fact, that&#39;s how most caves are.Around this half of the country,most of your caves are made of limestone.Back where I&#39;m from, most of our caves are made of lava rock,because we have a lot of volcanoes out there.But the caves I want to share with you today are madecompletely of ice, specifically glacier icethat&#39;s formed in the side of the tallest mountainin the state of Oregon, called Mount Hood.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:只需开一个钟头就可以从波特兰开车到胡德山。波特兰是俄勒冈州最大的城市，那里有两百万人。对于岩洞探险家来说，最兴奋的事情莫过于发现新岩洞，并成为第一个走进去的人。第二件兴奋的事情是为岩洞绘制第一张地图。时下，出外远足的人是如此之多。发现一个新岩洞还真不容易。这样你就可以想象当我们发现了三个新岩洞时是多么的兴奋。尤其是在俄勒冈州最大的城市发现它们还没有人探索过这些岩洞，或者绘制一幅地图。我们有些像宇航员，去探索并发现一个从来没有人见过、去过的地方。
en:Now Mount Hood&#39;s only one hour&#39;s drive from Portland,the largest city in Oregon,where over two million people live.Now the most exciting thing for a cave exploreris to find a new caveand be the first human to ever go into it.The second most exciting thing for a cave exploreris to be the first one to make a map of a cave.Now these days, with so many people hiking around,it&#39;s pretty hard to find a new cave,so you can imagine how excited we wereto find three new caveswithin sight of Oregon&#39;s largest cityand realize that they had never been exploredor mapped before.It was kind of like being an astronaut,because we were getting tosee things and go placesthat no one had ever seen or gone to before.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:什么是冰川？你们中有些人摸过雪。雪非常轻。因为它是由冰晶体多半还是气态的时候凝集而成。如果你把雪拧成雪球，它变得很小、很硬、很重。像胡德山这样的山。每年下大概二十英尺雪。雪把空气压出去，渐渐形成了坚硬的蓝色冰块。现在每年有越来越多的雪层层叠起它变得非常重。以至于由于它的重力作用而滑下山。形成缓慢移动的冰体。我们把这种开始移动的冰体叫做冰川，并给它命名。这三个岩洞所在的冰川是桑迪冰川。每年，新的雪落在冰川上。在夏天的太阳下融化。形成了一条小河沿冰流过。它们一边融化，一边凿穿冰川。形成大岩洞网。有些部分深入到了伏基岩。疯狂的是，这些冰川岩洞每年都形成新的隧道。岩洞里的不同瀑布不时喷起或从这里移动到那里。冰体顶部的温暖水流渐渐凿入冰体。吹过山的暖风自然上升，进入岩洞。融化岩洞的天花板，使它越来越高。但是冰川岩洞最怪诞的是整个岩洞是移动的。因为它形成于冰块之中。像一个小城市那么大、慢慢从山上滑下的冰块。
en:So what is a glacier?Well, those of you who haveever seen or touched snow,you know that it&#39;s really light,because it&#39;s just a bunch of tiny ice crystalsclumped together, and it&#39;s mostly air.If you squish a handful of snow to make a snowball,it gets really small, hard and dense.Well, on a mountain like Hood, where it snowsover 20 feet a year,it crushes the air out of itand gradually forms it into hard blue ice.Now each year, more and more icestacks up on top of it,and eventually it gets so heavythat it starts to slide down the mountainunder its own weight,forming a slow-moving river of ice.When ice packed like that starts to move,we call it a glacier, and we give it a name.The name of the glacier these caves are formed inis the Sandy Glacier.Now each year, as new snow lands on the glacier,it melts in the summer sun,and it forms little rivers of wateron the flow along the ice,and they start to melt and boretheir way down through the glacier,forming big networks of caves,sometimes going all the way downto the underlying bedrock.Now the crazy thing about glacier cavesis that each year, new tunnels form.Different waterfalls pop up or move aroundfrom place to place inside the cave.Warm water from the top of the iceis boring its way down,and warm air from below the mountainactually rises up, gets into the cave,and melts the ceilings back taller and taller.But the weirdest thing about glacier cavesis that the entire cave is moving,because it&#39;s formed inside a block of icethe size of a small citythat&#39;s slowly sliding down the mountain.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:这是Brent McGregor，我岩洞探险的搭档。他和我都探索过很长时间的岩洞，爬过很长时间的山。但我们谁都没有真正探索过一个冰川洞穴。2011年，Brent在You Tube上看到一个视频。一对徒步旅行者蹒跚走过上述三个岩洞之一的洞口。那里没有GPS坐标。我们只知道它是Sandy冰川的某个地方。那年七月，我们去了冰川上，发现了一道裂缝。我们要定好锚。这样就可以顺着绳子垂直降入洞中。这是我从裂缝入口望到的。在这个洞的尾端，我们发现了一个大隧道。向上通入山中，在数千吨冰川冰的下面。我们沿着这个岩洞往后半英里，直到最深处。然后在我们的勘测工具的帮助下，我们在出洞的路上做了一张洞穴的三维地图。
en:Now this is Brent McGregor,my cave exploration partner.He and I have both been exploring caves a long timeand we&#39;ve been climbing mountains a long time,but neither one of us had ever reallyexplored a glacier cave before.Back in 2011, Brent saw a YouTube videoof a couple of hikers that stumbled acrossthe entrance to one of these caves.There were no GPS coordinates for it,and all we knew was that it was somewhereout on the Sandy Glacier.So in July of that year, we went out on the glacier,and we found a big crack in the ice.We had to build snow and ice anchorsso that we could tie off ropesand rappel down into the hole.This is me looking into the entrance crevasse.At the end of this hole, we found a huge tunnelgoing right up the mountainunderneath thousands of tons of glacier ice.We followed this cave back for about a half mileuntil it came to an end,and then with the help of our survey toolswe made a three-dimensional map of the caveon our way back out.
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:那么怎样去制作一张地图？洞穴地图不像一个步道地图或路线图。因为洞穴有坑和洞在不同层交叠。为了做一张洞穴地图，你要在洞中每几英尺设一个勘测台。用激光测出勘测台之间的距离。然后用指南针和测斜仪测量洞穴的朝向和岩顶与地面的坡度。现在你要用三角函数。这种特别的数学知识在做一张岩洞地图的时候特别有用。因为它可以让你在不走过去的情况下衡量高度和距离。实际上，我越画地图研究洞穴我越发现在学时痛恨的数学其实很有用当你做完这些勘测，你把这些数据都放进电脑里。找画画很好的人，让他们画逼真的地图。看起来就像这样它展示给你鸟瞰图和像蚂蚁农场一般的剖面图。我们把这个岩洞叫做雪龙洞。因为它就像一只睡在雪下面的龙。今年夏末，随着更多的雪融入冰川。我们发现了更多的岩洞，它们都是连通的。
en:So how do you map a cave?Well, cave maps aren&#39;t like trail maps or road mapsbecause they have pits and holes going to overlapping levels.To make a cave map, you have to set upsurvey stations every few feet inside the cave,and you use a laser to measurethe distance between those stations.Then you use a compass and an inclinometerto measure the direction the cave is headedand measure the slope of the floor and the ceilings.Now those of you taking trigonometry,that particular type of math is very usefulfor making maps like thisbecause it allows you to measureheights and distanceswithout actually having to go there.In fact, the more I mapped and studied caves,the more useful I found all that maththat I originally hated in school to be.So when you&#39;re done surveying,you take all this data andyou punch it into a computerand you find someone that can draw really well,and you have them draft up a mapthat looks something like this,and it&#39;ll show you both abird&#39;s-eye view of the passageas well as a profile view of the passage,kind of like an ant farm view.We named this cave Snow Dragon Cavebecause it was like a big dragonsleeping under the snow.Now later this summer, as moresnow melted off the glacier,we found more caves, and we realizedthey were all connected.
时间： 4:43
zh-cn:我们给雪龙洞画地图后不久，Brent在不远的地方发现了这个新洞穴。洞里表面覆盖着冰，我们在脚上穿了叫做冰爪的长钉。这样移动的时候就不打滑。这个洞很神奇。洞顶的冰发着蓝色和绿色的光。因为远上处的日光穿过冰层映亮了它。我们不明白为什么这个洞比雪龙洞冷得多。直到我们走到洞尾才发现了原因。那里有一个大坑或轴叫冰川锅穴。深130英尺直到冰川表面。山顶的冷空气沿着这个洞流下，吹进洞穴。让里面的东西都结了冰。我们很高兴发现这个凹洞。我们事实上第二年一月才回来。这样我们就是第一个探索洞穴的人之一。外面非常冷。我们要在洞里睡觉。这是我们在这个（不会翻）左侧的帐篷。第二天早上，我们爬出了洞徒步走到冰川的顶部。走到我们难忘的第一次操作和垂降到这个洞穴的地方。Brent把这个洞穴叫做“纯洁幻境”。我猜是因为我们在洞里见到的美景远远超出了我们的想象。
en:Not long after we mapped Snow Dragon,Brent discovered this new cave not very far away.The inside of it was coated with ice,so we had to wear big spikeson our feet called cramponsso we could walk around without slipping.This cave was amazing.The ice in the ceiling was glowing blue anad greenbecause the sunlight from far abovewas shining through the ice and lighting it all up.And we couldn&#39;t understand why this cavewas so much colder than Snow Dragonuntil we got to the end and we found out why.There was a huge pit or shaft called a moulingoing 130 feet straight upto the surface of the glacier.Cold air from the top of the mountainwas flowing down this holeand blasting through the cave,freezing everything inside of it.And we were so excited about finding this new pit,we actually came back in January the following yearso we could be the first ones to explore it.It was so cold outside,we actually had to sleep inside the cave.There&#39;s our camp on the left side of this entrance room.The next morning, we climbed out of the caveand hiked all the way to the top of the glacier,where we finally rigged and rappelled this pitfor the very first time.Brent named this cave Pure Imagination,I think because the beautiful sights we saw in therewere beyond what we could have ever imagined.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:这些洞穴里除了冰块还有什么？里面生物很少，因为非常冷。入口一年中有大约八个月是雪覆盖起来的。那里确实有些新奇的事情。水中生活着一种奇怪的菌食用和消化岩石作为它们在冰层下的食物这个夏天，科学家收集了这些水和冰的样本。特别是想看看叫做极端微生物的进化到在极端环境中生存的微小生命是否能在冰下生存。就像他们期望某天在火星冰帽上发现的生物另外一件非常酷的事情是，种子和鸟类落在冰川上死亡后，它们被埋入雪中。渐渐成为冰川的一部分。在冰中越沉越深。这些岩洞形成时融入了进入冰中的通道。这些艺术品从洞顶降下落在岩洞地面上，我们最后在那里发现它们。例如，这是我们发现的一个宝贵的冷杉种子。它在冰中冻了超过100年。现在刚刚开始发芽。这是野鸭羽毛。在雪龙洞背1800英尺处发现的。这只野鸭很久很久以前死在冰川表面上。它的羽毛在落入洞穴之前在冰中下降了100英尺。这个漂亮的石英晶体也是在雪龙洞背发现的。
en:So besides really cool ice,what else is inside these caves?Well not too much lives in them because they&#39;re so coldand the entrance is actually covered up with snowfor about eight months of the year.But there are some really cool things in there.There&#39;s weird bacteria living in the waterthat actually eat and digest rocksto make their own foodto live under this ice.In fact, this past summer, scientists collectedsamples of water and icespecifically to see if things called extremophiles,tiny lifeforms that are evolvedto live in completely hostile conditions,might be living under the ice,kind of like what they hope to findon the polar icecaps of Mars someday.Another really cool things is that,as seeds and birds land onthe surface of the glacier and die,they get buried in the snowand gradually become part of the glacier,sinking deeper and deeper into the ice.As these caves form and melt their way up into the ice,they make these artifacts rain down from the ceilingand fall onto the cave floor,where we end up finding them.For example, this is a noble fir seed we found.It&#39;s been frozen in the ice for over 100 years,and it&#39;s just now starting to sprout.This mallard duck featherwas found over 1,800 feetin the back of Snow Dragon Cave.This duck died on the surfaceof the glacier long, long ago,and its feathers have finally made itdown through over 100 feet of icebefore falling inside the cave.And this beautiful quartz crystalwas also found in the back of Snow Dragon.
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:甚至现在，Brent和我觉得很难相信所有这些发现实质上就在我们自己的后院里。深深地隐藏着，等待着被发现。像我早前说过的，在我们生存的忙碌的世界里发现一些东西，你似乎只能通过太空旅行了。但这不是事实。每一年都有新的洞穴被发现。从来没有人去过的洞穴。对于你们中的某个人来说还不是太晚来成为一个发现者。只要你愿意看和去人经常不去的地方。集中你的目光和意识来辨认出新的发现。因为它可能就在你家后院。
en:Even now, Brent and I find it hard to believethat all these discoveries were essentially in our own backyard,hidden away, just waiting to be found.Like I said earlier, the idea of discoveringin this busy world we live inkind of seems like something you can only do with space travel now,but that&#39;s not true.Every year, new caves get discoveredthat no one has ever been in before.So it&#39;s actually not too late for one of youto become a discoverer yourself.You just have to be willing to lookand go where people don&#39;t often goand focus your eyes and your mindto recognize the discovery when you see it,because it might be in your own backyard.
时间： 7:49
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间： 7:51
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
