时间： 0:16
zh-cn:以前，我曾是个艺术家我仍然画画，我喜欢艺术。我喜欢颜色给我们生活和社会带来的喜悦我尝试把我身上艺术家的那一面带进政治，我发现，今天我工作的一部分，我站在这里的原因不只是为我的党派宣传，也是为政治，以及它在改善我们生活的方面能起到的作用
en:In my previous life, I was an artist.I still paint. I love art.I love the joy that color can give to our livesand to our communities,and I try to bring something of the artist in mein my politics,and I seepart of my job today, the reason for being here,not just to campaign for my party,but for politics, and the role it can playfor the better in our lives.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:我做我们的首都地拉那的市长有11年了我们面对过很多挑战艺术解决了部分问题起初，我的名字与两样事情有关：为恢复公共空间而拆除违章建筑，以及用颜色来重燃我们城市丢失的希望这些颜色的使用不光是为了追求艺术在当时，它更是一种政治行动我当选以后城市的预算经费所剩无几
en:For 11 years, I was mayor of Tirana, our capital.We faced many challenges.Art was part of the answer,and my name, in the very beginning,was linked with two things:demolition of illegal constructionsin order to get public space back,and use of colors in order to revive the hopethat had been lost in my city.But this use of colors was not just an artistic act.Rather, it was a form of political actionin a context when the city budget I had availableafter being elected amounted to zero comma something.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:我们粉刷第一幢大楼时在铅灰色的大楼正面泼上了明亮的橙色跟着不可思议的事情发生了一时交通阻塞众人聚集好像重大事故的现场或者突然撞到了来游玩的明星
en:When we painted the first building,by splashing a radiant orange on the somber grayof a facade,something unimaginable happened.There was a traffic jamand a crowd of people gatheredas if it were the location of some spectacular accident,or the sudden sighting of a visiting pop star.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:负责基金的法国欧盟官员赶来阻止正在进行的喷涂作业他尖叫着说要中止融资
en:The French E.U. official in charge of the fundingrushed to block the painting.He screeched that he would block the financing.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:我问他，“为什么呀？”
en:&quot;But why?&quot; I asked him.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:他回答说：“你用的那些颜色不符合欧洲标准。”
en:&quot;Because the colors you have ordereddo not meet European standards,&quot; he replied.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:我跟他说“这周围的一切都不符合欧洲标准尽管这也不是我们想要的但是我们要自己选择颜色因为这就是我们想要的如果你不让我们继续工作我要马上举行一个新闻发布会就在这条路上我们会告诉人们你们提防着我们就像社会主义现实主义时代的审查们。”
en:&quot;Well,&quot; I told him,&quot;the surroundings do not meet European standards,even though this is not what we want,but we will choose the colors ourselves,because this is exactly what we want.And if you do not let us continue with our work,I will hold a press conference here,right now, right in this road,and we will tell people that you look to mejust like the censors of the socialist realism era.&quot;
时间： 3:22
zh-cn:他也很为难并请我作出让步但我告诉他，很抱歉妥协有颜色来表示的话是灰色我们人生中已经有太多的灰色（掌声)是改变的时候啦
en:Then he was kind of troubled,and asked me for a compromise.But I told him no, I&#39;m sorry,compromise in colors is gray,and we have enough gray to last us a lifetime.(Applause)So it&#39;s time for change.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:恢复公共空间会恢复人们对所遗失的城市的归属感人们对自己居住地的自豪以及多来年他们对公共场所滋生的非法野蛮建筑的愤慨背后的情感当各处有了颜色人们的精神开始转变有人大声问：“这是什么？这是怎么回事？”这些颜色对我们有什么影响？
en:The rehabilitation of public spacesrevived the feeling of belongingto a city that people lost.The pride of people about their own place of living,and there were feelings that had been burieddeep for years under the fury of the illegal,barbaric constructions that sprang up in the public space.And when colors came out everywhere,a mood of change started transforming the spirit of people.Big noise raised up: &quot;What is this? What is happening?What are colors doing to us?&quot;
时间： 4:28
zh-cn:我们做了个民意调查是我一生中见过的最迷人的调查我们问他们，“你们想要这次行动就是把建筑漆成这样子吗？”第二个问题是“你们想让它停止还是让它继续？”第一个问题呢63%的人说是，我们喜欢这样37%的人回答不，我们不喜欢这样对第二个问题，说不喜欢这样的人当中有一半希望这个行动能继续下去。（笑声）
en:And we made a poll,the most fascinating poll I&#39;ve seen in my life.We asked people, &quot;Do you want this action,and to have buildings painted like that?&quot;And then the second question was,&quot;Do you want it to stop or do you want it to continue?&quot;To the first question,63 percent of people said yes, we like it.Thirty-seven said no, we don&#39;t like it.But to the second question, half of them that didn&#39;t like it,they wanted it to continue. (Laughter)
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:我们注意到了变化譬如说，人们往街上扔垃圾的行为变少了开始付税金开始感觉到一度淡忘了的一些事当城市警察，或说国家本身正在消亡的时候美就充当了捍卫者
en:So we noticed change.People started to drop less litter in the streets, for example,started to pay taxes,started to feel something they had forgotten,and beauty was acting as a guardsmanwhere municipal police, or the state itself, were missing.
时间： 5:30
zh-cn:记得有一天我走在街上那里刚被涂上颜色树木也正在那里栽种我看到一个店老板和他太太在店里装一个玻璃门面他们把旧的卷帘门扔进垃圾回收处
en:One day I remember walking along a streetthat had just been colored,and where we were in the process of planting trees,when I saw a shopkeeper and his wifeputting a glass facade to their shop.They had thrown the old shutterin the garbage collection place.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:我问他，“为什么把那些卷帘门扔掉呢？”
en:&quot;Why did you throw away the shutters?&quot; I asked him.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:他们回答道，“因为，这条街现在安全多了。”
en:&quot;Well, because the street is safer now,&quot; they answered.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:“更安全了吗？是吗？他们派了更多的警察吧？”
en:&quot;Safer? Why? They have posted more policemen here?&quot;
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:“我说，伙计，什么警察？你自己看看。这些色彩，街灯，新铺的没有坑坑洼洼的路面，树木。又漂亮，又安全。”
en:&quot;Come on, man! What policemen?You can see it for yourself. There are colors,streetlights, new pavement with no potholes,trees. So it&#39;s beautiful; it&#39;s safe.&quot;
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:事实上，是美给了人们被保护的感觉这不是一种情感错位犯罪率降低了
en:And indeed, it was beauty that was giving peoplethis feeling of being protected.And this was not a misplaced feeling.Crime did fall.
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:1990年赢得的自由带来了城市的无政府状态90年代的野蛮导致城市失去了希望墙上的图画不能喂饱孩子们也不会照顾病号或教育无知者但是它带来了希望和光明帮助人们看见还有另外一种办法另一种精神，另一种对生活的感受如果我们能把这种同样的热情和希望引入我们的政治，我们就能够给我们和我们的国家一个更好的生活单单从河边呀我们就搬走了123，000吨的水泥我们在整个城市拆毁了5千多非法建筑当中最高的有8层楼高我们种植了5万5千棵树和灌木我们设立了一项绿色税每人都接受了所有的生意人都定期纳税我们通过公开竞争招募了我们的公务员当中有许多年轻人我们设法建立一个去除政治化的公共机构在这里男女被平等对待
en:The freedom that was won in 1990brought about a state of anarchy in the city,while the barbarism of the &#39;90sbrought about a loss of hope for the city.The paint on the walls did not feed children,nor did it tend the sick or educate the ignorant,but it gave hope and light,and helped to make people seethere could be a different way of doing things,a different spirit, a different feel to our lives,and that if we brought the same energy and hopeto our politics, we could build a better lifefor each other and for our country.We removed 123,000 tons of concreteonly from the riverbanks.We demolished more than 5,000 illegal buildingsall over the city,up to eight stories high, the tallest of them.We planted 55,000 trees and bushes in the streets.We established a green tax,and then everybody accepted itand all businessmen paid it regularly.By means of open competitions,we managed to recruit in our administrationmany young people,and we thus managed to builda de-politicized public institutionwhere men and women were equally represented.
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:国际组织在这20年中在阿尔巴尼亚投了很多资金，有些没有被利用好当我告诉世界银行的董事们我想让他们融资设立一个项目为市民建立一个符合标准的接待厅正是为了打击地方腐败他们并不理解我但人们在烈日下风雨里排长队等候只为了从那两个金属亭上的两个小窗口里拿到证明或区区一个答复他们为了不排长队就得付钱他们得到的回答就是来那个黑洞里同时一只神秘的手拿走他们的文件一边在查旧文件就是为了捞点贿赂我们可以每星期更换小亭子里隐藏的工作人员但我们改变不了这种腐败的行为
en:International organizationshave invested a lot in Albania during these 20 years,not all of it well spent.When I told the World Bank directorsthat I wanted them to finance a project to builda model reception hall for citizensprecisely in order to fight endemic daily corruption,they did not understand me.But people were waiting in long queuesunder sun and under rainin order to get a certificate or just a simple answerfrom two tiny windows of two metal kiosks.They were paying in order to skip the queue,the long queue.The reply to their requests was metby a voice coming from this dark hole,and, on the other hand,a mysterious hand coming out to take their documentswhile searching through old documents for the bribe.We could change the invisible clerks within the kiosks,every week, but we could not change this corrupt practice.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:我告诉一位世界银行的德国官员，“我确信，如果他们在德国工作他们是不可能受贿的在德国政府正如我确信的，如果你把德国政府官员放进那些小亭里他们也会同样受贿。”
en:&quot;I&#39;m convinced,&quot; I told a German officialwith the World Bank,&quot;that it would be impossible for them to be bribedif they worked in Germany,in a German administration,just as I am convinced that if you put German officialsfrom the German administration in those holes,they would be bribed just the same.&quot;
时间：10:20
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：10:27
zh-cn:这不是基因的关系这不是说有些人有良知而另一些没有良知这是体制问题，是组织问题也是环境问题和尊重问题
en:It&#39;s not about genes.It&#39;s not about some being with a high conscienceand some others having not a conscience.It&#39;s about system, it&#39;s about organization.It&#39;s also about environment and respect.
时间：10:43
zh-cn:我们撤掉了这些小亭子建造了一个明亮的接待大厅使人们，地拉那的公民们感觉他们到了这里像是到了国外去办他们的请求我们设立了一个在线控制系统以加快流程我们以公民优先，而不是公务员
en:We removed the kiosks.We built the bright new reception hallthat made people, Tirana citizens,think they had traveled abroad when they enteredto make their requests.We created an online system of controland so speeded up all the processes.We put the citizen first, and not the clerks.
时间：11:11
zh-cn:这种腐败现象在像阿尔吉尼亚这样的国家政府或者希腊，这不该由我来说可以用现代化的方式来解决通过重塑政治本身来重塑政府这就是答案，而不是用一个现成的公式来改造人民就像发展中国家经常尝试强加于人民的那样但徒劳无益（掌声)
en:The corruption in the state administrationof countries like Albania —it&#39;s not up to me to say also like Greece —can be fought only by modernization.Reinventing the government by reinventing politics itselfis the answer, and not reinventing peoplebased on a ready-made formulathat the developed world often tries in vain to imposeto people like us.(Applause)
时间：11:47
zh-cn:事到如今大部分政客们尤其在我们国家，承认吧他们认为民众很蠢。他们理所当然认为，不管发生什么民众必须跟从他们政治越来越不能够为公众关注的或人们亟待解决的问题提供答案政治也越来越像一场由愤世嫉俗的政客们操弄的分组游戏公众被放置一边就像坐在球场的席位上对政治的热情逐渐被盲目和绝望取代从这个角度来看当今所有的政客们看上去是一样的政治就类似于一项激发更多进攻主义和厌世情绪的运动而不是激发社会凝聚力和对市民主权的欲望
en:Things have come to this pointbecause politicians in general,but especially in our countries, let&#39;s face it,think people are stupid.They take it for granted that, come what may,people have to follow them,while politics, more and more, fails to offer answersfor their public concernsor the exigencies of the common people.Politics has come to resemblea cynical team game played by politicians,while the public has been pushed asideas if sitting on the seats of a stadiumin which passion for politicsis gradually making room for blindness and desperation.Seen from those stairs, all politicians todayseem the same,and politics has come to resemblea sport that inspires more aggressivenessand pessimism than social cohesionand the desire for civic protaganism.
时间：13:01
zh-cn:巴拉克·奥巴马赢了—（掌声）—因为他通过使用社交媒体来动员民众，这是前所未有的他并不认识每一个人但借助令人钦佩的独创性他把他们变成行动派让他们把任何可能为他赢得竞选的资源握在手里用他的名义为他奔走我推特，我喜欢！我喜欢它因为它把我的信息传出去但也得到人们的消息这是政治，不是自上而下而是自下而上地，甚至斜向地允许每个人的声音都被听到这就是我们所要的政治不光是与领袖有关不只是政客和法律它是关乎民众的想法他们如何来看待周围的世界如何利用他们的时间和能源当人们讲政客都是一个样时请扪心自问奥巴马和布什是否一样弗朗索瓦·奥朗德和萨科齐是否一样他们不一样。他们观点不同世界观也不同当人们说什么都不会改变时只要停下来想一想10年前，20年前，50年前，100年前这个世界是什么样子我们的世界是根据变化来定义的我们都能够改变世界
en:Barack Obama won— (Applause) —because he mobilized people as never beforethrough the use of social networks.He did not know each and every one of them,but with an admirable ingenuity,he managed to transform them into activistsby giving them all the possibility to hold in their handsthe arguments and the instruments that each would needto campaign in his name by making his own campaign.I tweet. I love it.I love it because it lets me get the message out,but it also lets people get their messages to me.This is politics, not from top down,but from the bottom up, and sideways,and allowing everybody&#39;s voice to be heardis exactly what we need.Politics is not just about leaders.It&#39;s not just about politicians and laws.It is about how people think,how they view the world around them,how they use their time and their energy.When people say all politicians are the same,ask yourself if Obama was the same as Bush,if François Hollande is the same as Sarkozy.They are not. They are human beings with different viewsand different visions for the world.When people say nothing can change,just stop and think what the world was like10, 20, 50, 100 years ago.Our world is defined by the pace of change.We can all change the world.
时间：14:47
zh-cn:我给了你们一个小例子一个如何通过颜色来产生变化的例子作为我们国家总理我想做更多改变但是如果你想做你们每个人都会让改变发生
en:I gave you a very small exampleof how one thing, the use of color,can make change happen.I want to make more changeas Prime Minister of my country,but every single one of you can make change happenif you want to.
时间：15:06
zh-cn:罗斯福总统说过，&quot;相信你可以，你就成功了一半。”
en:President Roosevelt, he said,&quot;Believe you can, and you are halfway there.&quot;
时间：15:13
zh-cn:谢谢，晚安
en:Efharisto and kalinihta.
时间：15:16
zh-cn:(掌声）
en:(Applause)
