时间： 0:15
zh-cn:雅克 库拉多曾经说过：“人们都会保护自己所喜爱的事物。“本着这样的精神，我想将我的海洋之爱与你分享。那就是这些品种繁多，不计其数的会发光的海洋生物。
en:In the spirit of Jacques Cousteau, who said,&quot;People protect what they love,&quot;I want to share with you today what I love most in the ocean,and that&#39;s the incredible number and varietyof animals in it that make light.
时间： 0:29
zh-cn:我对海洋的热爱始于这件怪模样的，名为Wasp（黄蜂）的潜水衣，这并不是首字母缩略词，只是有人觉得它长得像黄蜂。实际上它是由海上石油工业开发，用于海下2000英尺油井作业的潜水服。当我刚博士毕业我有幸加入一个科研小组。这个科研小组首次将这种潜水服应用于探索海洋。我们在休尼梅港的一个水池中接受了训练，接着我的第一次公海潜水就在圣巴巴拉海峡开始了。这是一次夜间潜水，到达海下880英尺，我就关掉了所有的灯光。之所以关灯是因为我知道我将看到生物体发光的现象科学上称为“生物性光”但它的壮观程度和绚丽多彩是远远出乎我的意料的。我看到了名为“管水母”的水母链，比这屋子的长度还长。它们发出相当多的光，即使潜水器里没有灯光，我也能读出拨号盘和测量仪的数据。还有或大或小的云状发光体看起来就像是明亮蓝雾一样，也有一些像是从助推器涡旋而出的火光。这些火光就像你把一根木头扔进篝火中，火花四溅，但不同的是这些是冰冷的蓝色火花。让人兴奋不已。
en:My addiction began with this strange looking diving suit called Wasp;that&#39;s not an acronym — just somebody thought it looked like the insect.It was actually developed for use by the offshore oil industryfor diving on oil rigs down to a depth of 2,000 feet.Right after I completed my Ph.D.,I was lucky enough to be included with a group of scientiststhat was using it for the first timeas a tool for ocean exploration.We trained in a tank in Port Hueneme,and then my first open ocean divewas in Santa Barbara Channel.It was an evening dive.I went down to a depth of 880 feetand turned out the lights.And the reason I turned out the lights is because I knew I would seethis phenomenon of animals making lightcalled bioluminescence.But I was totally unpreparedfor how much there wasand how spectacular it was.I saw chains of jellyfish called siphonophoresthat were longer than this room,pumping out so much lightthat I could read the dials and gaugesinside the suit without a flashlight;and puffs and billowsof what looked like luminous blue smoke;and explosions of sparksthat would swirl up out of the thrusters —just like when you throw a log on a campfire and the embers swirl up off the campfire,but these were icy, blue embers.It was breathtaking.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:通常熟悉生物性光这个概念的人知道的，是这些小东西，萤火虫，以及少数陆居生物，比如某些昆虫，蚯蚓和真菌等。总体来说，陆居发光生物体是很少见的。但在海洋里，这是生存法则，并非特例。试想，我进到公海区域，世界上哪里的海域都可以，在海峡3000英尺处撒张网，一直拽上海面，大多数捕到的生物，实际上，在很多地方，80%-90%捕到的生物都可以发光。这足以组成一场盛大的灯展了。
en:Now, usually if people are familiar with bioluminescence at all,it&#39;s these guys; it&#39;s fireflies.And there are a few other land-dwellers that can make light —some insects, earthworms, fungi —but in general, on land, it&#39;s really rare.In the ocean, it&#39;s the rulerather than the exception.If I go out in the open ocean environment,virtually anywhere in the world,and I drag a net from 3,000 feet to the surface,most of the animals —in fact, in many places, 80 to 90 percentof the animals that I bring up in that net —make light.This makes for some pretty spectacular light shows.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:接下来我想分享一段我从潜水器里拍摄的短片。首先我将这项技术应用于名为“深海漫游者”的单人潜水器上，随后便运用于你现在所看到的琼森海洋连接器请看，安装在观察区前的是一个直径为三英尺的铁环，环上铺设了一层屏幕。在潜水器内我架设了一架高敏相机，其敏感度不亚于完全适应黑暗的人眼唯一美中不足的是图像稍微有一点模糊。然后打开摄像机，关上光设备你现在看到的并不是生物性光，是高敏相机上的电子噪音。当潜水器在水中前行时就可以看到荧光了。但正如所设计的那样，这些生物无意中撞到屏幕上受了刺激而发了光。
en:Now I want to share with you a little videothat I shot from a submersible.I first developed this technique working from a littlesingle-person submersible called Deep Roverand then adapted it for use on the Johnson Sea-Link,which you see here.So, mounted in front of the observation sphere,there&#39;s a a three-foot diameter hoopwith a screen stretched across it.And inside the sphere with me is an intensified camerathat&#39;s about as sensitive as a fully dark-adapted human eye,albeit a little fuzzy.So you turn on the camera, turn out the lights.That sparkle you&#39;re seeing is not luminescence,that&#39;s just electronic noiseon these super intensified cameras.You don&#39;t see luminescence until the submersiblebegins to move forward through the water,but as it does, animals bumping into the screenare stimulated to bioluminesce.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:起初使用设备拍摄时，我只想去统计发光体的数量。我知道潜水器的前行速度，也知道（这个屏幕的）面积我就能算出每立方米有几万个发光体。后来我开始意识到，我能通过这些发光体所产生的不同类型的光去辨别这些生物的种类。然后我就这样做了，缅因湾海下740英尺，你能看到的发光生物我差不多都能叫出它们的种类比如这些大爆炸，蓝焰都来自一种小栉水母。还有这些是磷虾，甲壳类动物以及水母，这里看到的也是栉水母的一种。接着我和计算机图形分析工程师合作，共同开发出一种自动识别系统，这个系统能够辨别出这些生物种类，并提取原始碰撞点的立体坐标。然后就能和生态学家研究陆地生物一样（来研究海洋生物），做最邻近搜索（NNS）。
en:Now, when I was first doing this,all I was trying to do was count the numbers of sources.I knew my forward speed, I knew the area,and so I could figure out how many hundreds of sourcesthere were per cubic meter.But I started to realize that I could actually identify animalsby the type of flashes they produced.And so, here, in the Gulf of Maineat 740 feet,I can name pretty much everything you&#39;re seeing there to the species level.Like those big explosions, sparks,are from a little comb jelly,and there&#39;s krill and other kinds of crustaceans,and jellyfish.There was another one of those comb jellies.And so I&#39;ve worked with computer image analysis engineersto develop automatic recognition systemsthat can identify these animalsand then extract the XYZ coordinate of the initial impact point.And we can then do the kinds of things that ecologists do on land,and do nearest neighbor distances.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:但你不必为看这些灯展而总潜到深海去。实际上水面上就可以了。这是由SCRIPPS机构的麦克 拉兹博士拍摄的一段海豚在发光浮游生物间穿行的录像。而且拍摄地也不像PURTO RICO湾有那么多奇特怪异的发光体。实际上这段录像拍摄于圣地亚哥港。其实你还可以更近距离地观察这种发光现象。因为“船头”（heads on ships）对许多在听的不熟悉海上生活的人来说，其实就是厕所——是用未经过滤的海水来冲马桶的。里面通常都含有发光浮游生物。当某个晚上你跌撞的冲进厕所难受的太厉害，恨不得抱着马桶大吐。忘记了开灯，那是你也许会觉得自己看到了神明下凡呢。
en:But you don&#39;t always have to go down to the depths of the oceanto see a light show like this.You can actually see it in surface waters.This is some shot, by Dr. Mike Latz at Scripps Institution,of a dolphin swimming through bioluminescent plankton.And this isn&#39;t someplace exoticlike one of the bioluminescent bays in Puerto Rico,this was actually shot in San Diego Harbor.And sometimes you can see it even closer than that,because the heads on ships —that&#39;s toilets, for any land lovers that are listening —are flushed with unfiltered seawaterthat often has bioluminescent plankton in it.So, if you stagger into the head late at nightand you&#39;re so toilet-hugging sickthat you forget to turn on the light,you may think that you&#39;re having a religious experience. (Laughter)
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:那么这些生物是怎么样发光的呢。唔，这是十九世纪研究的问题。法国生理学家Raphael Dubois对这些发光蛤进行了探索研究。他将这些蛤碾碎，并成功的从中提取出几种化学物质。其中之一是一种酶，Dubois命名为荧光素酶，依据素有“明亮之星”之称的金星，他将这种发现的酶作用物称之为“荧光素”。这些化学术语沿用至今，但事实上由于这些荧光化学物质种类繁多，形态各异，这个术语并不代表任何具体的化学物质。其实，当代从事生物性光研究的学者都将化学性质作为研究重点。因为这些化学性质在很多领域都有宝贵的应用。比如用此开发些抗病毒药剂，抗癌药物，测试火星生命体迹象，或测试生活用水中的污染物。这项探测技术正用于ORCA。2008年，诺贝尔化学奖的研究成果是一种名为绿荧光蛋白的分子，这种分子是从水母的发光物质里提取出来的。从其对细胞生物学和基因工程的影响来看，这无异于显微镜的发明。
en:So, how does a living creature make light?Well, that was the question that 19th centuryFrench physiologist Raphael Dubois,asked about this bioluminescent clam.He ground it up and he managed to get out a couple of chemicals;one, the enzyme, he called luciferase;the substrate, he called luciferinafter Lucifer the Lightbearer.That terminology has stuck, but it doesn&#39;t actually refer to specific chemicalsbecause these chemicals come in a lot of different shapes and forms.In fact, most of the peoplestudying bioluminescence todayare focused on the chemistry, because these chemicalshave proved so incredibly valuablefor developing antibacterial agents,cancer fighting drugs,testing for the presence of life on Mars,detecting pollutants in our waters —which is how we use it at ORCA.In 2008,the Nobel Prize in Chemistrywas awarded for work doneon a molecule called green fluorescent proteinthat was isolated from the bioluminescent chemistryof a jellyfish,and it&#39;s been equated to the invention of the microscope,in terms of the impact that it has hadon cell biology and genetic engineering.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:所有的这些分子还告诉我们，显然，发光性生物至少进化过40次。有可能进化了50次也说不定。这也很清楚的表明，这种发光能力，对生存是及其重要的。那么，究竟是什么，使得这种生物性光对深海生物如此重要。为了躲避捕食者，他们躲在黑暗里。然而为了生物体的存活，光的重要性至少能体现在最基本的三件事上那就是寻找食物，吸引异性，以及躲避天敌。请看，这条鱼眼背后有一个内嵌灯，可以用来发现食物或吸引异性。当不需要光时，鱼就能将其翻向颅内类似你的兰博基尼汽车的车头灯。再看这条鱼，装备的还是远光灯。
en:Another thing all these molecules are telling usthat, apparently, bioluminescence has evolvedat least 40 times, maybe as many as 50 separate timesin evolutionary history,which is a clear indicationof how spectacularly importantthis trait is for survival.So, what is it about bioluminescencethat&#39;s so important to so many animals?Well, for animals that are trying to avoid predatorsby staying in the darkness,light can still be very usefulfor the three basic things that animals have to do to survive:and that&#39;s find food,attract a mate and avoid being eaten.So, for example, this fishhas a built-in headlight behind its eyethat it can use for finding foodor attracting a mate.And then when it&#39;s not using it, it actually can roll it down into its headjust like the headlights on your Lamborghini.This fish actually has high beams.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:这条，也是我最喜欢的鱼之一，头的两侧各有三个灯。这个灯发蓝光，蓝色也是深海生物性光最普遍的颜色。优胜劣汰，适者生存，蓝色是海水中传播最远的光束，也借此来优化深海信息传播。大部分深海生物发蓝光，而且大多数只能看到蓝光。但这条鱼却异常奇特因为它有两个红光器官。我不知道为什么是两个，这也是我将来想研究的问题。这样看来，他们不仅能看到蓝光，还可以看见红光。所以，这种生物性红光就像狙击手的瞄准仪让这类鱼偷偷靠近看不到红光的生物，在不被看见的情况下，看见其他生物。在这，下巴须这还有一个蓝色诱饵，在这，下巴须这还有一个蓝色诱饵，借此来吸引远距离猎物。其实很多生物都用它们的生物性光来吸引猎物。
en:And this fish, which is one of my favorites,has three headlights on each side of its head.Now, this one is blue,and that&#39;s the color of most bioluminescence in the oceanbecause evolution has selectedfor the color that travels farthest through seawaterin order to optimize communication.So, most animals make blue light,and most animals can only see blue light,but this fish is a really fascinating exceptionbecause it has two red light organs.And I have no idea why there&#39;s two,and that&#39;s something I want to solve some day —but not only can it see blue light,but it can see red light.So it uses its red bioluminescence like a sniper&#39;s scopeto be able to sneak up on animalsthat are blind to red lightand be able to see them without being seen.It&#39;s also got a little chin barbel herewith a blue luminescent lure on itthat it can use to attract prey from a long way off.And a lot of animals will use their bioluminescence as a lure.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:这是另一条我喜欢的鱼。毒蛇鱼在它长长背鳍上有一个捕食诱饵，这个诱饵从它长满牙的下巴拱起，这也是它名字的来源。这条鱼的牙齿很长，如果这些牙齿合在这条鱼的嘴里，它会刺穿自己的脑袋。所以，它的牙齿只能在头部外滑动。这个毒蛇鱼像一棵圣诞树，它身上的每处都会发光。它不光是有那个会发光的捕食诱饵，它（还在头上）长了个手电筒。它(还)在腹部发出这些珠宝般的亮光，来当作一种保护色，因为这种亮光能使它的影子消失。当有捕食者从下往上看这条游鱼时，它能(通过这种腹部的亮光)让自己消失。在它的嘴内也有发光器官，它身上每处都有发光器官，鳍上，在背部的粘液层上，腹部等。它们的作用都各不相同，有些为我们所知，有些则不然。
en:This is another one of my favorite fish.This is a viperfish, and it&#39;s got a lureon the end of a long fishing rodthat it arches in front of the toothy jawthat gives the viperfish its name.The teeth on this fish are so longthat if they closed inside the mouth of the fish,it would actually impale its own brain.So instead, it slides in grooveson the outside of the head.This is a Christmas tree of a fish;everything on this fish lights up,it&#39;s not just that lure.It&#39;s got a built-in flashlight.It&#39;s got these jewel-like light organs on its bellythat it uses for a type of camouflagethat obliterates its shadow,so when it&#39;s swimming around and there&#39;s a predator looking up from below,it makes itself disappear.It&#39;s got light organs in the mouth,it&#39;s got light organs in every single scale, in the fins,in a mucus layer on the back and the belly,all used for different things —some of which we know about, some of which we don&#39;t.
时间： 8:15
zh-cn:对于在生物性光研究取得的进步，要归功于皮克斯公司，是皮克斯公司让我与大家分享我喜欢的主题。对此，我感激不尽。我也希望，他们给研究生的预算可以多那么一点点。要知道，这些经费不足，求知欲强的大学生本来可以向他们展示这些保存在福尔马林里的鱼眼。这是一条活琵琶鱼(安康鱼)的眼睛。她有针尖的牙齿，活像一个生物捕鼠器。它的发光器官从牙齿上突出，从而吸引这些未设防的猎物。这条鱼的发光器官是从这里穿出的针，相当有意思。
en:And we know a little bit more about bioluminescence thanks to Pixar,and I&#39;m very grateful to Pixar for sharingmy favorite topic with so many people.I do wish, with their budget,that they might have spent just a tiny bit more moneyto pay a consulting fee to some poor, starving graduate student,who could have told them that those are the eyesof a fish that&#39;s been preserved in formalin.These are the eyes of a living anglerfish.So, she&#39;s got a lure that she sticks outin front of this living mousetrapof needle-sharp teethin order to attract in some unsuspecting prey.And this one has a lurewith all kinds of little interesting threads coming off it.
时间： 8:51
zh-cn:我们过去认为这些形状各异的发光器光是为吸引不同类型的猎物.但科学家，更多的是他们的研究生，对这些鱼的内容物进行分析，发现他们吃的东西几乎一模一样。所以现在我们认为在琵琶鱼上这些不同类型的发光器官,是为了让雄性鱼能够识别雌性鱼的。因为很多雄性鱼都有&quot;侏儒男&quot;之称。这些小东西没有可见的自给工具。他们没有诱饵吸引食物，即使食物就在嘴边，他们也没牙去咬。在这种环境里，他的一线生机就是吃软饭。他要为自己找到一个可以依附一生的伴侣。自然，这个小东西找到了伴侣，你会注意到，这条矮雄鱼还挺聪明的，“他“这么一粘上去，这辈子“他“连瞅也不用瞅“她“了。（笑）但当他看到雌鱼时，他还是挺积极的。他通过给她一个永恒的“吻“，通过和她血肉相连，巩固下它们之间的联系。他现在活似一个精囊了。（笑）嗯，这是妇女解放运动的深海版。雌鱼总知道雄鱼的所在，而且她也不需要嫁夫随夫，因为很多雄鱼都会依附于一条雌鱼。
en:Now we used to think that the different shape of the lurewas to attract different types of prey,but then stomach content analyses on these fishdone by scientists, or more likely their graduate students,have revealed thatthey all eat pretty much the same thing.So, now we believe that the different shape of the lureis how the male recognizes the femalein the anglerfish world,because many of these malesare what are known as dwarf males.This little guyhas no visible means of self-support.He has no lure for attracting foodand no teeth for eating it when it gets there.His only hope for existence on this planetis as a gigolo. (Laughter)He&#39;s got to find himself a babeand then he&#39;s got to latch on for life.So this little guyhas found himself this babe,and you will note that he&#39;s had the good senseto attach himself in a way that he doesn&#39;t actually have to look at her.(Laughter)But he still knows a good thing when he sees it,and so he seals the relationship with an eternal kiss.His flesh fuses with her flesh,her bloodstream grows into his body,and he becomes nothing more than a little sperm sac.(Laughter)Well, this is a deep-sea version of Women&#39;s Lib.She always knows where he is,and she doesn&#39;t have to be monogamous,because some of these femalescome up with multiple males attached.
时间：10:10
zh-cn:所以说，这些生物会利用发光特性来寻找食物，吸引异性。更多的是它们用发光特性来防御天敌，具体的方法多种多样。许多生物都能释放他们的荧光素，或者荧光酶就好像乌贼或章鱼释放的墨团。很神奇，这条虾会从嘴里射出一道光，像喷火龙一样，这样毒蛇鱼就看不见了，或者注意力被分散了。然后这条虾就能蹿回黑暗里。很多种类各异的生物都有这种能力。水母，章鱼，以及各种各样的甲壳类生物。
en:So they can use it for finding food, for attracting mates.They use it a lot for defense, many different ways.A lot of them can release their luciferin or luferase in the waterjust the way a squid or an octopus will release an ink cloud.This shrimp is actuallyspewing light out of its mouthlike a fire breathing dragonin order to blind or distract this viperfishso that the shrimp can swim away into the darkness.And there are a lot of different animals that can do this:There&#39;s jellyfish, there&#39;s squid,there&#39;s a whole lot of different crustaceans,
时间：10:38
zh-cn:甚至鱼类也有这种能力。这条鱼被称为“光亮肩管”鱼。因为在它的肩上有一个能喷光的管子。我很有幸能捕到这样一条鱼那是在非洲西北岸进行的一次捕捞作业，是为了（探索频道的）“蓝色星球”的节目做的。准确地说是“蓝色星球”节目的深海探险部分。当时我们使用了一种特殊的捕捞网，这些网可以把生物活着捞上来。我们这样捕捞到了这条鱼。我把它带进了实验室。这是我正捉着它，我现在要触碰它肩上的管子，当碰到以后，大家就看到有生物光流出来。对我来说，让我惊讶的不只是有大量的光喷出，而是，这些光不仅仅是由荧光素和荧光素酶组成，这些鱼喷出的，是具有细胞核和细胞膜的完整细胞。这样看来，喷光对这条鱼来说是极其消耗能量的，我们也不明白为什么它要这样做，这也是需要解决的谜团之一。
en:there&#39;s even fish that can do this.This fish is called the shining tubeshoulderbecause it actually has a tube on its shoulderthat can squirt out light.And I was luck enough to capture one of thesewhen we were on a trawling expeditionoff the northwest coast of Africa for &quot;Blue Planet,&quot;for the deep portion of &quot;Blue Planet.&quot;And we were using a special trawling netthat we were able to bring these animals up alive.So we captured one of these, and I brought it into the lab.So I&#39;m holding it,and I&#39;m about to touch that tube on its shoulder,and when I do, you&#39;ll see bioluminescence coming out.But to me, what&#39;s shockingis not just the amount of light,but the fact that it&#39;s not just luciferin and luciferase.For this fish, it&#39;s actually whole cellswith nuclei and membranes.It&#39;s energetically very costly for this fish to do this,and we have no idea why it does it —another one of these great mysteries that needs to be solved.
时间：11:31
zh-cn:另外，还有一种名为“防盗警钟”的防御模式。因为它的原理同你私家车上的防盗报警器是一样的。鸣笛和闪灯，满怀希望地想吸引警察的注意，警察来了就可以带走这个偷车贼。当一个生物落入它的天敌的魔爪中，这个生物唯一的潜逃机会就是去吸引更大的，更危险的，能够袭击自己天敌的生物，这样就能为他们提供潜逃机会。比如这条水母，上演了一场精彩的发光秀。这是我们在潜水器里的追捕画面，这里（你看到）的光并不是生物性光，而是来自生殖腺的反射光。我们在潜水器前方安装了一种特殊的装置来捕捉水母，这个装置能让我们捕获最原始状态的水母，并带到船上的实验室。然后就产生了大家即将看到的。我用像鱼牙齿一样的尖状物，以每秒一次的频率去刺激它的神经环。开始发光之后，我就不再去刺激它了。这是一场难以置信的光展，这像是光做的风车。我曾经计算过，300英尺以外的捕食者也能看到这些光。所以我认为，这些光着实是相当不错的诱饵。因此，作为一名深海探索者，有一个问题一直困扰着我，那就是，海洋里究竟有多少生物， 是由于我们的探索手段的问题，而使我们对他们一无所知的？
en:Now, another form of defenseis something called a burglar alarm —same reason you have a burglar alarm on your car;the honking horn and flashing lightsare meant to attract the attention of, hopefully,the police that will come and take the burglar away —when an animal&#39;s caught in the clutches of a predator,its only hope for escape may beto attract the attention of something bigger and nastierthat will attack their attacker,thereby affording them a chance for escape.This jellyfish, for example, hasa spectacular bioluminescent display.This is us chasing it in the submersible.That&#39;s not luminescence, that&#39;s reflected light from the gonads.We capture it in a very special device on the front of the submersiblethat allows us to bring it up in really pristine condition,bring it into the lab on the ship.And then to generate the display you&#39;re about to see,all I did was touch it once per secondon its nerve ring with a sharp pickthat&#39;s sort of like the sharp tooth of a fish.And once this display gets going, I&#39;m not touching it anymore.This is an unbelievable light show.It&#39;s this pinwheel of light,and I&#39;ve done calculations that show that this could be seenfrom as much as 300 feet away by a predator.And I thought, &quot;You know,that might actually make a pretty good lure.&quot;Because one of the things that&#39;s frustrated meas a deep-sea exploreris how many animals there probably are in the ocean that we know nothing aboutbecause of the way we explore the ocean.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:我们认识了解海洋生物的主要方法就是出海，撒网，我不认为任何其他的科学研究领域还在使用这么老掉牙的技术。其它主要途径就是乘潜水器下海，以及使用遥控的工具。我曾随潜水器下水几百次，即使当我只坐在潜水器里什么都不干，我也是非常招摇的。随我而来的是很亮的探照光，推进器产生的噪音。任何稍有知觉的生物都躲得远远的了。所以，很长一段时间内我一直想研究出一种别的探索方法。
en:The primary way that we know about what lives in the oceanis we go out and drag nets behind ships.And I defy you to name any other branch of sciencethat still depends on hundreds of year-old technology.The other primary way is we go downwith submersibles and remote-operated vehicles.I&#39;ve made hundreds of dives in submersibles.When I&#39;m sitting in a submersible though,I know that I&#39;m not unobtrusive at all —I&#39;ve got bright lights and noisy thrusters —any animal with any sense is going to be long gone.So, I&#39;ve wanted for a long timeto figure out a different way to explore.
时间：13:20
zh-cn:接着，前不久，我想到了利用摄像系统来探索。这其实并没那么复杂，我们称这个系统为“海洋之眼”。科学家们多年来在陆地上已经用类似的手段，我们只是换了一种深海生物看不到的，但摄像机却可以识别的颜色。海洋里无法使用红外线，因而我们使用的是远红光。但还有个问题就是，光被吸收的太快了。所以我们设计了高敏相机，来制造这只“电水母”。问题是作科研，你得告诉筹资机构你能发现什么，然后你才能得到科研资金。我不知道我能发现什么，自然也没能得到资金。所以我就只好七拼八凑。起初我委托哈维姆德工程院将（这个假水母的研究）作为本科生的研究项目。再后来，通过各种各样的渠道，我终于凑得了科研基金。
en:And so, sometime ago, I got this idea for a camera system.It&#39;s not exactly rocket science. We call this thing Eye-in-the-Sea.And scientists have done this on land for years;we just use a color that the animals can&#39;t seeand then a camera that can see that color.You can&#39;t use infrared in the sea.We use far-red light, but even that&#39;s a problembecause it gets absorbed so quickly.Made an intensified camera,wanted to make this electronic jellyfish.Thing is, in science,you basically have to tell the funding agencies what you&#39;re going to discoverbefore they&#39;ll give you the money.And I didn&#39;t know what I was going to discover,so I couldn&#39;t get the funding for this.So I kluged this together, I got the Harvey Mudd Engineering Clinicto actually do it as an undergraduate student project initially,and then I kluged funding from a whole bunch of different sources.
时间：14:04
zh-cn:蒙特利湾水族馆研究中心将他们的水下机器人给了我。然后我就能进行些测试和研究。比如，应该用什么样的红光，使让我们看到海洋生物，而他们看不到我们，还得确保这台电水母顺利工作。大家可以看到我们的预算确实有限，因为，当我把这16个蓝色二极管粘到这个塑料圈上时——这里你可以看见我们用的塑料模子，你还看得见ZIPLOC（生产厨房用品的厂家）的字样。不用说，在对各种光进行组合搭配时，我们经历了许多尝试和失败，才得以研究出这种符合条件的光。这样的时候，就是所有工作就绪，所有设备都能投入使用，我们兴奋不已。而这弥足珍贵的一刻被刚好在那里的摄像师马克 瑞查德拍摄了下来。这时刻我们知道整个事情成了。左边的是我，然后是我带的毕业生 艾丽卡 莱蒙德以及该项目的工程师 李 弗莱我们把相片挂在实验室最显著的地方，图注为“工程师同时满足了两个女人”当时真的是太开心了。
en:Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institutegave me time with their ROVso that I could test it and we could figure out,you know, for example, which colors of red light we had to useso that we could see the animals, but they couldn&#39;t see us —get the electronic jellyfish working.And you can see just what a shoestring operation this really was,because we cast these 16 blue LEDs in epoxyand you can see in the epoxy mold that we used,the word Ziploc is still visible.Needless to say, when it&#39;s kluged together like this,there were a lot of trials and tribulations getting this working.But there came a moment when it all came together,and everything worked.And, remarkably, that moment got caught on filmby photographer Mark Richards,who happened to be there at the precise momentthat we discovered that it all came together.That&#39;s me on the left,my graduate student at the time, Erika Raymond,and Lee Fry, who was the engineer on the project.And we have this photograph posted in our lab in a place of honorwith the caption: &quot;Engineer satisfying two women at once.&quot; (Laughter)And we were very, very happy.
时间：15:06
zh-cn:现在终于有了能将我们带到海底天堂的设备了。而这片海底天堂很可能是大型捕食者的天下。所以，我们将设备安置在墨西哥湾北部的盐池区内。这个地方很神奇。我猜这段录像不足以吸引大家的眼球，鉴于那时逊色的摄像机但我却狂喜不已。这是在盐池边上，有条鱼正向相机游来，显然，我们没打扰到它。这样子我找到了通向深海的窗口。这是第一次。我看到这些不受任何人影响的深海生物究竟在干什么。四个小时的准备工作之后，我们第一次将电水母投入使用我们的电水母开始发光，（就像前面提到的真的水母所作的光风车一样，）86秒之后，我们拍摄到了这个画面。这是条章鱼，足有六英尺长。我们对它没有一点了解，所以不能将它归入任何现存的动物种类中去。这是我能得到的最好的证据，来说明我的研究方法是正确的。
en:So now we had a systemthat we could actually take to some placethat was kind of like an oasis on the bottom of the oceanthat might be patrolled by large predators.And so, the place that we took it towas this place called a Brine Pool,which is in the northern part of the Gulf of Mexico.It&#39;s a magical place.And I know this footage isn&#39;t going to look like anything to you —we had a crummy camera at the time —but I was ecstatic.We&#39;re at the edge of the Brine Pool,there&#39;s a fish that&#39;s swimming towards the camera.It&#39;s clearly undisturbed by us.And I had my window into the deep sea.I, for the first time, could see what animals were doing down therewhen we weren&#39;t down there disturbing them in some way.Four hours into the deployment,we had programmed the electronic jellyfishto come on for the first time.Eighty-six seconds afterit went into its pinwheel display,we recorded this:This is a squid, over six feet long,that is so new to science,it cannot be placed in any known scientific family.I could not have asked for a better proof of concept.
时间：16:11
zh-cn:依靠拍摄到的内容，我又回头找到国家科学基金1，并告诉他们，“（如果你们给我们资金）这就是我们会发现的”。他们就给了我足够的资金去更好地做这项研究，其中也包括开发第一架深海网络摄像头，这个摄像头去年被安装在蒙特利的海底峡谷。现在，也就是最近，我们开发出了比这个摄像头更为灵活的模型。这个模型更便于水下作业，而且能够再回收。我希望这个装置可以用来探索和保护西维亚所说的“希望之地”。同时让我加深对“希望之地”的更多生物性光的了解。
en:And based on this, I went back to the National Science Foundationand said, &quot;This is what we will discover.&quot;And they gave me enough money to do it right,which has involved developing the world&#39;s first deep-sea webcam —which has been installed inthe Monterey Canyon for the past year —and now, more recently,a modular form of this system,a much more mobile formthat&#39;s a lot easier to launch and recover,that I hope can be used on Sylvia&#39;s &quot;hope spots&quot;to help exploreand protect these areas,and, for me, learn more aboutthe bioluminescence in these &quot;hope spots.&quot;
时间：16:45
zh-cn:有一点需要指出的是海洋里我们需要探索的东西仍然很多。西维亚曾说，我们尚未弄清海洋里究竟有些什么却已经在破坏它了。她说的很对。如果你非常有幸可以乘潜水器下水，请一定把握机会。就算你有一千次机会，每次都请下水。你会关上灯。我保证，你会爱上那番景象。
en:So one of these take-home messages hereis, there is still a lot to explore in the oceans.And Sylvia has saidthat we are destroying the oceans before we even know what&#39;s in them,and she&#39;s right.So if you ever, ever get an opportunityto take a dive in a submersible,say yes — a thousand times, yes —and please turn out the lights.I promise, you&#39;ll love it.
时间：17:09
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:11
zh-cn:鼓掌
en:(Applause)
