时间： 0:15
zh-cn:我是30年前开始旅程的。那时我在矿上工作。我意识到这是一个鲜为人知的角落。我想要通过彩色大幅面照相机冲印出非常大的照片，使作品从某种程度上，成为表现人类如何利用土地的象征。成为表现人类如何利用土地的象征。成为表现人类如何利用土地的象征。成为表现人类如何利用土地的象征。对我来说关键的一点，就是通过摄影的方法使我们思考这些风景的深层含义，我认为摄影非常适合这项工作。我认为摄影非常适合这项工作。
en:I started my journey 30 years ago.And I worked in mines. And I realized thatthis was a world unseen.And I wanted, through color and large format camerasand very large prints,to make a body of work that somehowbecame symbols of ouruse of the landscape,how we use the land.And to me this wasa key component that somehow, through this medium of photography,which allows us to contemplate these landscapes,that I thought photography was perfectly suitedto doing this type of work.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:拍摄了17年大型工业风景后，我发现石油是工业的规模和速度的基础，因为改变的是我们攫取资源的速度。因为改变的是我们攫取资源的速度。所以我拍摄了整整一系列的石油风景照片。所以我拍摄了整整一系列的石油风景照片。我要绘制出这样一系列主题。第一个主题，石油开采和提炼。第一个主题，石油开采和提炼。
en:And after 17 years of photographing large industrial landscapes,it occurred to me thatoil is underpinning the scale and speed.Because that is what has changed,is the speed at which we&#39;re taking all our resources.And so then I went out to develop a whole serieson the landscape of oil.And what I want to do is to kind of map an arcthat there is extraction, where we&#39;re taking it from the ground,refinement. And that&#39;s one chapter.
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:第二个主题是我们如何使用：在城市里汽车里，我们的“汽车文化“人们开车聚到一起欢庆的活动。人们开车聚到一起欢庆的活动。第三个主题就是石油的终点。混乱的终点。所有的汽车零件，轮胎滤油气直升机，飞机所有这一切的坟场的风景？
en:The other chapter that I wanted to look at washow we use it — our cities,our cars, our motorcultures,where people gather around the vehicleas a celebration.And then the third one is this idea of the end of oil,this entropic end,where all of our parts of cars, our tires,oil filters,helicopters, planes —where are the landscapes where all of that stuff ends up?
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:对于我来说，摄影就是我探索这个世界找到这些地方的途径。对于我来说，摄影就是我探索这个世界找到这些地方的途径。对于我来说，摄影就是我探索这个世界找到这些地方的途径。我还有一个想法，是由一位生态学者提出的。他计算了一升汽油需要耗费多少碳、多少有机物质。他计算了一升汽油需要耗费多少碳、多少有机物质。他计算了一升汽油需要耗费多少碳、多少有机物质。需要每升23吨。所以每当我加满油后，我就想到要耗费多少碳。
en:And to me, again, photography wasa way in which I could explore and research the world,and find those places.And another idea that I had as well,that was brought forward by an ecologist —he basically did a calculation wherehe took one liter of gas and said,well, how much carbon it would take, and how much organic material?It was 23 metric tons for one liter.So whenever I fill up my gas,I think of that liter, and how much carbon.
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:我知道石油来源于海洋浮游植物。他还计算了地球需要多长时间产生这些能量。他还计算了地球需要多长时间产生这些能量。依靠光合作用，得需要500年才能生成每年300亿桶石油所含的能量。依靠光合作用，得需要500年才能生成每年300亿桶石油所含的能量。依靠光合作用，得需要500年才能长出每年300亿桶石油所含的能量。
en:And I know that oil comes from the ocean and phytoplankton,but he did the calculations for our Earthand what it had to do to produce that amount of energy.From the photosynthetic growth,it would take 500 years of that growthto produce what we use, the 30 billion barrels we use per year.
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:这也昭示了我们社会面临的危机。这也昭示了我们社会面临的危机。300亿桶每年，看看两大石油出口国，沙特和加拿大。他们加在一起只能供应15年。全世界估计有1.2万亿桶的储量，只够我们用45年的。问题已经不是石油峰值是否会来，而是何时来临。问题已经不是石油峰值是否会来，而是何时来临。
en:And that also brought me to the fact thatthis poses such a risk to our society.Looking at 30 billion per year,we look at our two largest suppliers,Saudi Arabia and now Canada, with its dirty oil.And together they only form about 15 years of supply.The whole world, at 1.2 trillion estimated reserves,only gives us about 45 years.So, it&#39;s not a question of if, but a question of whenpeak oil will come upon us.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:所以对于我来说，利用摄影我认为应该开始利用我们的才干处理我们这个时代面临的最大挑战。我认为应该开始利用我们的才干处理我们这个时代面临的最大挑战。我认为应该开始利用我们的才干处理我们这个时代面临的最大挑战。我认为应该开始利用我们的才干处理我们这个时代面临的最大挑战。我认为应该开始利用我们的才干处理我们这个时代面临的最大挑战。处理我们的能源危机。
en:So, to me, using photography —and I feel that all of us need to now begin to reallytake the task of using our talents,our ways of thinking,to begin to deal with what I think is probablyone of the most challenging issues of our time,how to deal with our energy crisis.
时间： 3:13
zh-cn:从另一方面来说，30，40年后我可以对我的孩子说：“30，40年后我可以对我的孩子说：“我们尽我们所能缓解危机。“我们尽我们所能缓解危机。“现在就是我们这个时代最重要最关键的时刻。现在就是我们这个时代最重要最关键的时刻。谢谢。（掌声）
en:And I would like to say that, on the other side of it,30, 40 years from now, the children that I have,I can look at them and say, &quot;We did everythingwe possibly, humanly could do,to begin to mitigate this,what I feel is one of the most important and criticalmoments in our time. Thank you.(Applause)
