时间： 0:11
zh-cn:想象你在罗马，你来到了梵蒂冈博物馆你走过无数的长廊，经过雕塑，壁画，和好多好多艺术品你正在前往西斯廷教堂。终于，一条长廊，一段阶梯，和一扇门。你在西斯廷教堂的入口。
en:Imagine you&#39;re in Rome,and you&#39;ve made your wayto the Vatican Museums.And you&#39;ve been shufflingdown long corridors,past statues, frescoes,lots and lots of stuff.You&#39;re heading towards the Sistine Chapel.At last — a long corridor,a stair and a door.You&#39;re at the thresholdof the Sistine Chapel.
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:你觉得你会看见什么？高耸的圆顶？欢歌的天使？这些在西斯廷教堂都不存在。反之，你可能会问，我们有什么？
en:So what are you expecting?Soaring domes? Choirs of angels?We don&#39;t really have any of that there.Instead, you may ask yourself,what do we have?
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:当西斯廷教堂的幕布拉开。我的意思是，你真的是被着色的幕布环绕，这是这座教堂最初的装饰。教堂用壁毯不仅仅是为了在长时间聚会时防寒,它们也象征着我们的戏剧人生。我们每个人都参与的人类的戏剧是一个宏大的故事一个包罗万象的故事。而这个故事在绘画西斯廷教堂的三个阶段都有所呈现。
en:Well, curtains up on the Sistine Chapel.And I mean literally, you&#39;re surroundedby painted curtains,the original decoration of this chapel.Churches used tapestries not justto keep out cold during long masses,but as a way to representthe great theater of life.The human drama in which each one of usplays a part is a great story,a story that encompasses the whole worldand that came to unfoldin the three stagesof the painting in the Sistine Chapel.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:最开始，这个建筑只被一小群富有并且受过教育的基督教牧师使用。他们在那里祷告，在那里选举教皇。五百年前，它是神职人员的首要洞庭。那么，你也许会问，它如今怎么能一年就吸引五百万来自世界各地的人呢？因为那狭小空间里创意被新地理政治前沿瞬间的激情所点燃，教堂古老的传教传统熊熊燃烧创意的火焰，创造出历史上最伟大的艺术作品之一。
en:Now, this building started outas a space for a small groupof wealthy, educated Christian priests.They prayed there.They elected their pope there.Five hundred years ago,it was the ultimateecclesiastical man cave.So, you may ask, how can it bethat today it attracts and delightsfive million people a year,from all different backgrounds?Because in that compressed space,there was a creative explosion,ignited by the electric excitementof new geopolitical frontiers,which set on fire the ancientmissionary tradition of the Churchand produced one of the greatestworks of art in history.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:这是一个巨大的变革，从最开始的少数精英参与，到最后能够与世界各地的观众进行交流。这样的变革经历了三个阶段每个阶段都和不同的历史环境有关。第一阶段的改变受到事业的局限它反映的更多是地方的观点。第二阶段发生在人们的世界观被显著地改变之后，在哥伦布著名的航行之后。第三阶段，是在探索发现时代早已开始后，在教堂开始应对面向全球的挑战时。
en:Now, this development took placeas a great evolution,moving from the beginning of a few elite,and eventually able to speakto audiences of peoplethat come from all over the world.This evolution took place in three stages,each one linkedto a historical circumstance.The first one was rather limited in scope.It reflected the ratherparochial perspective.The second one took place afterworldviews were dramatically alteredafter Columbus&#39;s historical voyage;and the third,when the Age of Discoverywas well under wayand the Church rose to the challengeof going global.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:这个教堂最开始的装饰反映的是一个小世界到处都是繁忙的景象处处讲述着耶稣和摩西的故事展现犹太教和基督教的发展。花钱定制这画的人是教皇席斯特六世，他组建了一个弗洛伦萨艺术的梦之队，包括桑德罗·波提且利，和后来成为米开朗基罗绘画老师的人，基尔兰达约。这些人，他们在雕带上先覆盖纯色之所以这些故事中你能看见熟悉的风景是因为艺术家们用了罗马的纪念碑，或是托斯卡纳的风光用熟悉的背景让一个遥远的故事更为大家所接受。再加上教皇朋友和家人的头像，这样的装饰对于一个欧洲大陆里的一个小庭院来说堪称完美。但是在1492年，新大陆被发现了，地平线在扩张，这个小小的133×46英尺的小宇宙也必须要扩张。它成功了。这要感谢一个有创意的天才，一个幻想家和一个棒极的故事。
en:The original decoration of this churchreflected a smaller world.There were busy scenesthat told the stories of the livesof Jesus and Moses,reflecting the developmentof the Jewish and Christian people.The man who commissioned this,Pope Sixtus IV,assembled a dream team of Florentine art,including men like Sandro Botticelliand the man who would becomeMichelangelo&#39;s future painting teacher,Ghirlandaio.These men, they blanketed the wallswith a frieze of pure color,and in these stories you&#39;ll noticefamiliar landscapes,the artists using Roman monumentsor a Tuscan landscapeto render a faraway story,something much more familiar.With the addition of imagesof the Pope&#39;s friends and family,this was a perfect decorationfor a small courtlimited to the European continent.But in 1492, the New World was discovered,horizons were expanding,and this little 133 by 46-footmicrocosm had to expand as well.And it did,thanks to a creative genius,a visionary and an awesome story.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:这个创意天才是米开朗基罗·波纳罗蒂，被要求装饰12000尺的屋顶时，米开朗基罗已经33岁了而且面临着重重困难他为了雕刻离开了学习多年的绘画，还留了一系列未完成的作品，这在佛罗伦萨惹怒了许多顾客,他被一个宏大的雕塑工程吸引到罗马，可那工程却失败了。剩下给他的项目是为西斯廷教堂屋顶的装饰背景画上十二信徒，这样的屋顶装饰在意大利遍地都是。
en:Now, the creative geniuswas Michelangelo Buonarroti,33 years old when he was tappedto decorate 12,000 square feet of ceiling,and the deck was stacked against him —he had trained in paintingbut had left to pursue sculpture.There were angry patrons in Florencebecause he had left a stackof incomplete commissions,lured to Rome by the prospectof a great sculptural project,and that project had fallen through.And he had been left with a commissionto paint 12 apostlesagainst a decorative backgroundin the Sistine Chapel ceiling,which would look likeevery other ceiling in Italy.
时间： 4:24
zh-cn:不过天才接受了挑战。在有人敢于横跨大西洋的时代，米开朗基罗勇敢地开辟了艺术新海域。他描述了一个没有信徒故事这是一个讲述伟大的开始的故事，创世纪的故事。
en:But genius rose to the challenge.In an age when a man daredto sail across the Atlantic Ocean,Michelangelo dared to chartnew artistic waters.He, too, would tell a story —no Apostles — but a storyof great beginnings,the story of Genesis.
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:在天花板上画故事，这听起来并不是一个好主意你怎么能读一个62尺高屋顶上的故事呢？在弗罗伦萨手手相传了200年绘画技术并不足够完成这样的描绘。
en:Not really an easy sell,stories on a ceiling.How would you be able to reada busy scene from 62 feet below?The painting technique that had beenhanded on for 200 yearsin Florentine studios was not equippedfor this kind of a narrative.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:不过米开朗基罗并不算一个画家，他展现了他的独到的能力。他用了锤子和凿子来雕刻一块大理石在大理石内部创造人物，而不是习惯性的把空间填满。米开朗基罗是一个本质主义；他要用大量的，动态的身体来讲他的故事。
en:But Michelangelo wasn&#39;t really a painter,and so he played to his strengths.Instead of being accustomedto filling space with busyness,he took a hammer and chiseland hacked away at a piece of marbleto reveal the figure within.Michelangelo was an essentialist;he would tell his storyin massive, dynamic bodies.
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:这个计划被与众不同的教皇儒略二世支持，他是一个可以理解米开朗基罗惊世骇俗的才能的人。他是教皇西克斯图斯四世的侄子，在艺术中浸泡了30年的他知道艺术的力量。历史上的他被人称作&quot;战士教皇&quot;，不过他在梵蒂冈留下的不是堡垒和大炮，而是艺术。他给我们留下了拉斐尔厅，西斯廷教堂,他留下了圣彼得大教堂,还有非凡的希腊罗马雕塑收藏这些非基督教作品后来成为了世界上第一个现代博物馆，梵蒂冈博物馆的发源。在教皇儒略设想的蓝图中，梵蒂冈永不过时它的庄严和美丽永远吸引着众人他是对的。米开朗基罗和教皇儒略二世，这两个伟人的相遇成就了我们如今的西斯廷教堂。米开朗基罗对这个工程的热忱让他成功地在三年半内完成了这个工程。只有最少的工具，他花费大部分时间，连续数小时，伸手在他头上的屋顶作画。
en:This plan was embracedby the larger-than-life Pope Julius II,a man who was unafraidof Michelangelo&#39;s brazen genius.He was nephew to Pope Sixtus IV,and he had been steeped in artfor 30 years and he knew its power.And history has handed down the monikerof the Warrior Pope,but this man&#39;s legacy to the Vatican —it wasn&#39;t fortresses and artillery,it was art.He left us the Raphael Rooms,the Sistine Chapel.He left St. Peter&#39;s Basilicaas well as an extraordinary collectionof Greco-Roman sculptures —decidedly un-Christian worksthat would become the seedbedof the world&#39;s first modern museum,the Vatican Museums.Julius was a manwho envisioned a Vaticanthat would be eternally relevantthrough grandeur and through beauty,and he was right.The encounter between these two giants,Michelangelo and Julius II,that&#39;s what gave us the Sistine Chapel.Michelangelo was so committedto this project,that he succeeded in getting the job donein three and a half years,using a skeleton crew and spendingmost of the time, hours on end,reaching up above his headto paint the stories on the ceiling.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:我们来看看这个屋顶，看看这个传遍世界的故事。没有平常世界中熟悉的艺术原型剩下的只有空间，结构与活力;一个史诗级的画作结构分别通往九个板块 ，它们由雕刻的形态而不是色彩进行区分。当我们站在入口的一角，这里远离圣餐台和被围住的只供牧师使用的区域。我们向远处眺望，寻找着一个开始。不管是在科学探索中还是在圣经传统里，我们都已经习惯于从头开始思考。当他为我们区分光明与黑暗时，米开朗基罗给了我们最初的力量。一个在远处模糊的，翻腾的身影被压缩进了一片狭小的空间。下一个人物显得更大，你还能看见一个身影从一边疾驰到另一边。在他之后出现了太阳，月亮和植物。不像其他艺术家米开朗基罗并没有关注那些被创造的事物，他着重于创造这行为本身。
en:So let&#39;s look at this ceilingand see storytelling gone global.No more familiar artistic referencesto the world around you.There&#39;s just spaceand structure and energy;a monumental painted frameworkwhich opens onto nine panels,more driven by sculptural formthan painterly color.And we stand in the far endby the entrance,far from the altar and from the gatedenclosure intended for the clergyand we peer into the distance,looking for a beginning.And whether in scientific inquiryor in biblical tradition,we think in terms of a primal spark.Michelangelo gave us an initial energywhen he gave us the separationof light and dark,a churning figure blurry in the distance,compressed into a tight space.The next figure looms larger,and you see a figure hurtlingfrom one side to the next.He leaves in his wakethe sun, the moon, vegetation.Michelangelo didn&#39;t focuson the stuff that was being created,unlike all the other artists.He focused on the act of creation.
时间： 7:46
zh-cn:接着动作都戛然而止，像诗歌中的停顿，只有创造者在徘徊。所以他在做什么？他在创造陆地？还是海洋？或是在欣赏他的作品，欣赏这个宇宙和他的宝藏，就如当时的米开朗基罗一样，回顾这他在屋顶的画作并大喊，&quot;这不错。“
en:And then the movement stops,like a caesura in poetryand the creator hovers.So what&#39;s he doing?Is he creating land? Is he creating sea?Or is he looking back over his handiwork,the universe and his treasures,just like Michelangelo must have,looking back over his work in the ceilingand proclaiming, &quot;It is good.&quot;
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:现在背景都做好了，创造也达到了高潮，人类。亚当出现在眼前，阴暗的背景中闪过光亮的身影。不过近看，他的腿软绵地耷拉在地上，膝盖也有些无法承受手臂的重负。亚当缺少那份内在的魂魄，能引领他走向伟大的魂魄。当创造者与亚当手指相接处的那一刻，这魂魄将要被创造者传递给亚当。这让我们欣喜若狂，因为我们马上就要见证这一时刻，亚当在这一刻会领悟造物主的意图，站起身并在创造的顶端找到属于他的位置。
en:So now the scene is set,and you get to the culminationof creation, which is man.Adam leaps to the eye, a light figureagainst a dark background.But looking closer,that leg is pretty languid on the ground,the arm is heavy on the knee.Adam lacks that interior sparkthat will impel him to greatness.That spark is about to be conferredby the creator in that finger,which is one millimeterfrom the hand of Adam.It puts us at the edge of our seats,because we&#39;re one momentfrom that contact,through which that manwill discover his purpose,leap up and take his placeat the pinnacle of creation.
时间： 8:50
zh-cn:就在这时，米开朗基罗扔出了一个划出曲线的球。另外一只臂膀里的是谁？夏娃，第一个女人。不，她并不是后来被添上的，她是这计划的一部分。她一直都在造物主的脑海中。快看她，与上帝如此亲密，她的手环绕着他的手臂。对于作为一名二十一世纪的美国艺术历史学家的我来说，这就是这幅画作感动我的时刻。因为我发现，人类戏剧的表达，一直以来都是关于男人和女人的而且这屋顶最重要的，最核心的位置都是关于如何创造女人，而不是亚当。事实上，当你看见他们在伊甸园时，他们一起堕落，他们骄傲的身姿一齐变为羞愧。
en:And then Michelangelo threw a curveball.Who is in that other arm?Eve, first woman.No, she&#39;s not an afterthought.She&#39;s part of the plan.She&#39;s always been in his mind.Look at her, so intimate with Godthat her hand curls around his arm.And for me, an American art historianfrom the 21st century,this was the momentthat the painting spoke to me.Because I realized that thisrepresentation of the human dramawas always about men and women —so much so, that the dead center,the heart of the ceiling,is the creation of woman, not Adam.And the fact is, that when you see themtogether in the Garden of Eden,they fall togetherand together their proud postureturns into folded shame.
时间： 9:39
zh-cn:现在你头上的天花板正是最关键的节点，你所在的位置是我们在教堂里能够走到的最远处。围栏把我们阻挡在了密室之外，我们就如亚当与夏娃一般被挡在外面。天花板上剩下的场景，反应了我们所在世界的嘈杂混乱。有诺亚和他的方舟和大洪水。你看诺亚，他正在献祭，与上帝订立盟约。也许他就是救世主。哦不，诺亚只是一个种植葡萄发明了葡萄酒在自己的谷仓赤裸着身体喝醉并晕倒了的人。以造物主创造生命为开始却以醉汉醉卧谷仓而结束这样设计穹顶是很不寻常的。与亚当相比你可能会觉得米开朗基罗在取笑我们。
en:You are at critical juncturenow in the ceiling.You are exactly at the pointwhere you and I can gono further into the church.The gated enclosure keeps usout of the inner sanctum,and we are cast outmuch like Adam and Eve.The remaining scenes in the ceiling,they mirror the crowded chaosof the world around us.You have Noah and his Ark and the flood.You have Noah. He&#39;s making a sacrificeand a covenant with God.Maybe he&#39;s the savior.Oh, but no, Noah is the onewho grew grapes, invented wine,got drunk and passed outnaked in his barn.It is a curious way to design the ceiling,now starting out with God creating life,ending up with some guyblind drunk in a barn.And so, compared with Adam,you might think Michelangelois making fun of us.
时间：10:23
zh-cn:但是他马上就要在诺亚的下方用光亮的颜色驱散黑暗：这是身着翡翠，黄玉，猩红色彩的先知撒迦利亚。撒迦利亚预见了从东方而来的圣光我们在命运的十字路口转向了新的目的地预言家和先知将带领我们前行，男女英雄为我们保驾护航，我们只要跟随圣母和神父的脚步。他们是带领我们人类前行的动力源泉。
en:But he&#39;s about to dispel the gloomby using those bright colorsright underneath Noah:emerald, topaz, scarleton the prophet Zechariah.Zechariah foresees a lightcoming from the east,and we are turned at this junctureto a new destination,with sibyls and prophetswho will lead us on a parade.You have the heroes and heroineswho make safe the way,and we follow the mothers and fathers.They are the motors of this greathuman engine, driving it forward.
时间：10:53
zh-cn:我们现在来到了穹顶的拱心石这里穹顶的最高点上面画的人物似乎要从他的空间掉到我们的空间里，似乎在慢慢侵占我们的空间。
en:And now we&#39;re at the keystoneof the ceiling,the culmination of the whole thing,with a figure that looks likehe&#39;s about to fall out of his spaceinto our space,encroaching our space.
时间：11:04
zh-cn:这是一个重要的时间节点。过去与现在的交叉点。这个人叫约拿他在鲸的胃里呆了三天对于基督徒来说他是人类通过耶稣牺牲获得重生的象征。但是对于每天怀着不同信仰来参观这座伟大博物馆的人来说他就是遥远的过去与当下的现实的相遇与碰撞
en:This is the most important juncture.Past meets present.This figure, Jonah, who spentthree days in the belly of the whale,for the Christians, is the symbolof the renewal of humanitythrough Jesus&#39; sacrifice,but for the multitudesof visitors to that museumfrom all faiths who visit there every day,he is the moment the distant pastencounters and meets immediate reality.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:所有的这些把我们带到了神坛墙壁上的拱廊我们看到了米开朗基罗《最后的审判》这幅画画于1934年世界已经发生了重大的变革。宗教改革削弱了教会势力因为奥斯曼帝国伊斯兰教已经家喻户晓麦哲伦也发现了太平洋的新航线。这位59岁的艺术家最远也就只到过威尼斯如何与这个世界沟通呢？米开朗基罗选择了绘画命运。这是宇宙的意愿这是我们都熟识的意愿来留下卓越的传奇。从基督徒角度诠释的《最后的审判》是世界的末日米开朗基罗设计了一系列拥有极美肉体的人物除了一对情侣，他们大多没有遮盖也没有肖像这是一系列的躯体391副身躯，各不相同就像我们每一位都独一无二。他们从左下角开始纷纷脱离地面挣扎着想要站起来。那些已经成功站起来的会回去帮其他人在一个奇妙的小图里你可以看到白人与黑人相互搀扶在这个新世界里人类难以置信地团结在一起。伟人分享自己的空间形成胜利者的圈子在那里你可以看到那些强壮的男人女人赤身裸体他们是战胜逆境的人在米开朗基罗的视角下那些战胜逆境克服困难的人正如强壮的人一样。在这聚光灯下男人和女人或曲体或伸展主持这个集会的是耶稣他是最初十字架上的受难者也是现在天堂荣耀的统治者。正如同米开朗基罗在他的画作中表现的苦难，挫折和阻碍并没有禁锢卓越反而历练了卓越。
en:All of this brings us to the yawningarchway of the altar wall,where we see Michelangelo&#39;s Last Judgment,painted in 1534 after the worldhad changed again.The Reformation had splintered the Church,the Ottoman Empire had madeIslam a household wordand Magellan had found a routeinto the Pacific Ocean.How is a 59-year-old artist who has neverbeen any further than Venicegoing to speak to this new world?Michelangelo chose to paint destiny,that universal desire,common to all of us,to leave a legacy of excellence.Told in terms of the Christian visionof the Last Judgment,the end of the world,Michelangelo gave you a series of figureswho are wearing thesestrikingly beautiful bodies.They have no more covers,no more portraitsexcept for a couple.It&#39;s a composition only out of bodies,391, no two alike,unique like each and every one of us.They start in the lower corner,breaking away from the ground,struggling and trying to rise.Those who have risenreach back to help others,and in one amazing vignette,you have a black man and a white manpulled up togetherin an incredible vision of human unityin this new world.The lion&#39;s share of the spacegoes to the winner&#39;s circle.There you find men and womencompletely nude like athletes.They are the oneswho have overcome adversity,and Michelangelo&#39;s visionof people who combat adversity,overcome obstacles —they&#39;re just like athletes.So you have men and womenflexing and posingin this extraordinary spotlight.Presiding over this assembly is Jesus,first a suffering man on the cross,now a glorious ruler in Heaven.And as Michelangeloproved in his painting,hardship, setbacks and obstacles,they don&#39;t limit excellence,they forge it.
时间：13:27
zh-cn:作为一座教皇的私人教堂你可以看到这么多裸体是一件非常奇怪的事。但是米开朗基罗只是想用最好的艺术语言用他可以想到的最通用的艺术语言来进行创作那就是人体。所以他没有用例如坚毅或者自主来表达美德他从尤里乌斯二世那里借来绝佳的雕塑收藏内外俱佳地进行艺术呈现。
en:Now, this does lead us to one odd thing.This is the Pope&#39;s private chapel,and the best way you can describe thatis indeed a stew of nudes.But Michelangelo was trying to useonly the best artistic language,the most universal artistic languagehe could think of:that of the human body.And so instead of the way of showingvirtue such as fortitude or self-mastery,he borrowed from Julius II&#39;swonderful collection of sculpturesin order to show inner strengthas external power.
时间：13:58
zh-cn:当代的评论曾说这样的教堂太过于漂亮必然会引起争议事实也是如此。米开朗基罗马上发现因为印刷技术的出现关于裸体的投诉日嚣尘上他关于人类戏剧的伟大作品被打上了色情的标签。也是这个时候他决定加上两个画像，一个是抨击他的教皇助手另一个则是他自己一点都不强壮却干得像个皮囊被一位饱经辛酸的殉道者握在手里。他去世那年他目睹他画作的一些部分被遮盖，但是瑕不掩瑜这也难掩他对于荣光的伟大训告。
en:Now, one contemporary did writethat the chapel was too beautifulto not cause controversy.And so it did.Michelangelo soon foundthat thanks to the printing press,complaints about the nudityspread all over the place,and soon his masterpiece of human dramawas labeled pornography,at which point he addedtwo more portraits,one of the man who criticized him,a papal courtier,and the other one of himselfas a dried up husk, no athlete,in the hands of a long-suffering martyr.The year he died he sawseveral of these figures covered over,a triumph for trivial distractionsover his great exhortation to glory.
时间：14:39
zh-cn:我们就站在这里此时此地。从开始到结束我们一直被这个空间所吸引目睹包罗万象的无与伦比的人生阅历。西斯廷教堂就像一面镜子让我们不停地探索。我在这幅画中么？我是群众的一员么？我是那个喝醉的人么？我是强壮的人么？当我们离开这振奋人心的美丽港湾我们也会不由自主地扪心自问我是谁？我在这浮浮众生中扮演什么角色？
en:And so now we standin the here and now.We are caught in that spacebetween beginnings and endings,in the great, huge totalityof the human experience.The Sistine Chapel forces usto look around as if it were a mirror.Who am I in this picture?Am I one of the crowd?Am I the drunk guy?Am I the athlete?And as we leave this havenof uplifting beauty,we are inspired to ask ourselveslife&#39;s biggest questions:Who am I, and what role do I playin this great theater of life?
时间：15:12
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：15:13
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：15:17
zh-cn:布鲁诺·朱萨尼：伊丽莎白·列弗，谢谢。
en:Bruno Giussani: Elizabeth Lev, thank you.
时间：15:20
zh-cn:您刚才提到这部作品中的色情描绘每时每刻都可以看见有很多裸体和一些不太合适的东西。实际上问题比这还要严重。不仅仅是一些部分被遮盖这件作品差点因此被毁。
en:Elizabeth, you mentionedthis whole issue of pornography,too many nudes and too manydaily life scenes and improper thingsin the eyes of the time.But actually the story is bigger.It&#39;s not just touching upand covering up some of the figures.This work of art was almostdestroyed because of that.
时间：15:39
zh-cn:《最后的审判》的影响是无比深远的当时的机构认定所有人都看过它所以这不是几周内发生的事情这件事横跨了20年的时间期间有讨论也有投诉很多人在教堂表示“你不能告诉我们怎么活我们自己的生活”“你没有看见教皇教堂里有色情的东西么？”在不停地抱怨和试图毁坏这幅作品的声音中在米开朗基罗去世那一年，教堂终于找到了折衷的办法可以挽救这幅画作。即增加三十多处遮盖，这也是无花果叶遮盖的原型。这就是它的由来。这其实是教堂尽力去挽救一副伟大的画作而不是想要丑化或者摧毁它
en:Elizabeth Lev: The effectof the Last Judgment was enormous.The printing press made surethat everybody saw it.And so, this wasn&#39;t somethingthat happened within a couple of weeks.It was something that happenedover the space of 20 yearsof editorials and complaints,saying to the Church,&quot;You can&#39;t possibly tell ushow to live our lives.Did you notice you havepornography in the Pope&#39;s chapel?&quot;And so after complaints and insistenceof trying to get this work destroyed,it was finally the yearthat Michelangelo diedthat the Church finallyfound a compromise,a way to save the painting,and that was in putting upthese extra 30 covers,and that happens to bethe origin of fig-leafing.That&#39;s where it all came about,and it came about from a churchthat was trying to save a work of art,not indeed deface or destroyed it.
时间：16:27
zh-cn:所以您刚才为我们展示的这些不是通过一般的西斯廷教堂旅行可以看到的
en:BG: This, what you just gave us,is not the classic tourthat people get todaywhen they go to the Sistine Chapel.
时间：16:33
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：16:35
zh-cn:我不知道这算是广告么？
en:EL: I don&#39;t know, is that an ad?
时间：16:37
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：16:39
zh-cn:不，不是，这是一种叙述。现在越来越多的艺术品面临失窃或其他风险。太多人希望可以在原址看到它们，这也是为什么500万人愿意穿过那扇小门以和我们刚才所感受的不一样的方式感受它。
en:BG: No, no, no, not necessarily,it is a statement.The experience of art todayis encountering problems.Too many people want to see this there,and the result is five million peoplegoing through that tiny doorand experiencing itin a completely different waythan we just did.
时间：16:55
zh-cn:是的，我有同感走走停停观赏艺术品是美妙的。而且即便每天慕名而来的游客有28000之多，即便你和大家一起环视四周你仍然会感叹它的不可思议感叹500年前的画作仍然可以让你和你周围所有的人瞠目结舌。这证明真正美好的作品是可以跨越时间和空间的界限的。
en:EL: Right. I agree. I think it&#39;s reallynice to be able to pause and look.But also realize,even when you&#39;re in those days,with 28,000 people a day,even those days when you&#39;re in therewith all those other people,look around you and thinkhow amazing it isthat some painted plasterfrom 500 years agocan still draw all those peoplestanding side by side with you,looking upwards with their jaws dropped.It&#39;s a great statement about how beautytruly can speak to us allthrough time and through geographic space.
时间：17:25
zh-cn:谢谢
en:BG: Liz, grazie.
时间：17:26
zh-cn:谢谢你
en:EL: Grazie a te.
时间：17:28
zh-cn:谢谢
en:BG: Thank you.
时间：17:29
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
