时间： 0:16
zh-cn:2002年，一群医疗活动分子相聚在一起讨论飞机的早期发展问题。在上个世纪初，怀特兄弟第一次成为让飞行器上天的人他们当然也获得了众多飞机主要部件的专利不过他们并不是唯一的专利人这是工业界的惯例那些飞机专利的持有者便极力维护甚至投诉周围的竞争对手
en:In 2002, a group of treatment activists metto discuss the early development of the airplane.The Wright Brothers, in the beginning of the last century,had for the first time managedto make one of those devices fly.They also had taken out numerous patentson essential parts of the airplane.They were not the only ones.That was common practice in the industry,and those who held patents on airplaneswere defending them fiercelyand suing competitors left and right.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:这一举动对航空工业的发展并没有好处而且当时正是美国政府意在扩大军用飞机生产的时候所以冲突也就不可避免美国政府随即采取行动迫使那些专利持有者们和他人共享专利从而保障飞机的生产
en:This actually wasn&#39;t so great for the development of the aviation industry,and this was at a time that in particular the U.S. governmentwas interested in ramping upthe production of military airplanes.So there was a bit of a conflict there.The U.S. government decided to take action,and forced those patent holdersto make their patents available to share with othersto enable the production of airplanes.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:那么我说的这件事情与现在要提到的这个有什么关系呢？
en:So what has thisgot to do with this?
时间： 1:29
zh-cn:在2002年，一位叫尼尔森.奥特沃玛的肯尼亚社会学家发现自己携带艾滋病病毒并需要治疗。但被告知这种病不可医治。他听说艾滋病是致命的,也是无药可救的。但当时的事实是在发达国家，疗法是存在的。艾滋病被视为慢性疾病。像在欧洲、北美的国家艾滋病毒携带者同样可以健康地生活。但对尼尔森来说却不行，因为他不够富有，他3岁的儿子在一年后也被诊断携带艾滋病病毒，同样得不到医治。
en:In 2002, Nelson Otwoma, a Kenyan social scientist,discovered he had HIV and needed access to treatment.He was told that a cure did not exist.AIDS, he heard, was lethal,and treatment was not offered. This was at a timethat treatment actually existed in rich countries.AIDS had become a chronic disease.People in our countries here in Europe, in North America,were living with HIV, healthy lives.Not so for Nelson. He wasn&#39;t rich enough,and not so for his three-year-old son, who he discovered a year lateralso had HIV.
时间： 2:12
zh-cn:尼尔森就此决定成为医疗活动分子并加入此类组织。他们在2002年遇到了不同的困境用于治疗艾滋病毒的抗逆转录病毒ARV的价格约为每个患者每年一万两千美元。持有这种药品专利的若干西方医药公司却并不愿意分享其专利。持有专利的公司，便可以把其它的任何公司排除在以低廉价格生产和制作这类的药品的范围之外当然这也就导致专利大战在全球展开。
en:Nelson decided to become a treatment activistand join up with other groups.In 2002, they were facing a different battle.Prices for ARVs, the drugs needed to treat HIV,cost about 12,000 [dollars] per patient per year.The patents on those drugs were heldby a number of Western pharmaceutical companiesthat were not necessarily willingto make those patents available.When you have a patent, you can excludeanyone else from making, from producing or makinglow-cost versions, for example,available of those medications.Clearly this led to patent wars breaking outall over the globe.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:幸运的是，此类专利并不是到处都有很多国家并不认可制药产品专利，拿印度来说，印度的制药公司已开始生产所谓的通用(非专利)配方，也就是廉价的抗逆转录病毒药品的复制品以供发展中国家使用在一年之内，该药品的价格从每个患者每年一万美元降到了350美元每个患者每年直至今天，同样的三联疗法售价仅为每个患者每年60美元这当然对于众多可以买得起此类药品的人意义深重。治疗方案从此得以实施基金到位，使用抗逆转录病毒药品的人数也迅速增加
en:Luckily, those patents did not exist everywhere.There were countries that did not recognizepharmaceutical product patents, such as India,and Indian pharmaceutical companiesstarted to produce so-called generic versions,low-cost copies of antiretroviral medicines,and make them available in the developing world,and within a year the price had come downfrom 10,000 dollars per patient per yearto 350 dollars per patient per year,and today that same triple pill cocktailis available for 60 dollars per patient per year,and of course that started to have an enormous effecton the number of people who could afford accessto those medicines.Treatment programs became possible,funding became available, and the number of peopleon antiretroviral drugs started to increase very rapidly.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:今天，已有八百万人可以使用抗逆转录病毒药物现有三十四万人感染艾滋病病毒这一数据史无前例不过这也是好消息因为它表明患者的死亡率下降了买得起这类药品的人不再被判处死刑更好的是他们可以杜绝病毒的传播这是最新的科学研究显示的这意味着我们掌握了防止这种传染性疾病的方法
en:Today, eight million peoplehave access to antiretroviral drugs.Thirty-four million are infected with HIV.Never has this number been so high,but actually this is good news,because what it means is people stop dying.People who have access to these drugs stop dying.And there&#39;s something else.They also stop passing on the virus.This is fairly recent science that has shown that.What that means is we have the toolsto break the back of this epidemic.
时间： 4:39
zh-cn:那还有哪些问题存在呢？今非昔比啊首先，规定改变了各个国家都有责任向制药公司提供至少20年的专利使用权这是世界贸易组织对知识产权规则改变的结果因此印度的做法也就不再成为可能其次，专利持有公司的惯例也得到改变在这里你可以看到在世界贸易组织知识产权规则之前95年之前抗逆转录病毒药品出现之前的数据这是今天的数据这是发展中国家的数据，也就是说除非我们刻意去做除非我们现在就改变我们不久就会面临又一个药品价格危机因为新药得以研发投入市场，而药品的专利在更广泛的国家范围得以注册如果我们当下不采取措施我们将很快面临人们所说的医疗定时炸弹
en:So what&#39;s the problem?Well, things have changed.First of all, the rules have changed.Today, all countries are obliged to providepatents for pharmaceuticals that last at least 20 years.This is as a result of the intellectual property rulesof the World Trade Organization.So what India did is no longer possible.Second, the practice of patent-holding companies have changed.Here you see the patent practicesbefore the World Trade Organization&#39;s rules, before &#39;95,before antiretroviral drugs.This is what you see today,and this is in developing countries, so what that means is,unless we do something deliberateand unless we do something now,we will very soon be faced with another drug price crisis,because new drugs are developed,new drugs go to market, but these medicines are patentedin a much wider range of countries.So unless we act, unless we do something today,we will soon be faced [with] what some have termedthe treatment time bomb.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:我说的不仅是专利药品的数量还有很多因素会使通用(非专利)药品制造商望而却步这是一个专利的分布图它仅代表一种药品假想你是一个通用药品制造商要决定是否投资开发该药品除非你有把握得到其专利许可证你可能会三思而后行所以我强调，我们需要行动
en:It isn&#39;t only the number of drugs that are patented.There&#39;s something else that can really scaregeneric manufacturers away.This shows you a patent landscape.This is the landscape of one medicine.So you can imagine that if you are a generic companyabout to decide whether to investin the development of this product, unless you knowthat the licenses to these patentsare actually going to be available,you will probably choose to do something else.Again, deliberate action is needed.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:所以假如我们真的可以建立一个专利库来扩大军用飞机的生产我们同样可以解决艾滋病病毒/艾滋病的传播
en:So surelyif a patent pool could be establishedto ramp up the production of military airplanes,we should be able to do something similarto tackle the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:而且我们做到了2010年，国际药品采购机制成立了艾滋病病毒医药专利库它是这样运作的:专利持有者，发明者对其发明的新药申请专利保护但将这些药品专利与药品专利库共享再把许可证发放给需要使用该专利的人比如通用药品制造商也可以是非营利性药品开发代理商等等这些制造商则将这些药品或治疗方案以更加低廉的价格出售给任何需要的患者他们给专利持有者支付专利使用费作为共享知识产权的报酬
en:And we did.In 2010, UNITAID established the Medicines Patent Poolfor HIV.And this is how it works:Patent holders, inventorsthat develop new medicinespatent those inventions,but make those patents availableto the Medicines Patent Pool. The Medicines Patent Poolthen license those out to whoever needs access to those patents.That can be generic manufacturers.It can also be not-for-profit drug development agencies,for example.Those manufacturers can then sell those medicinesat much lower cost to people who need access to them,to treatment programs that need access to them.They pay royalties over the sales to the patent holders,so they are remunerated for sharing their intellectual property.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:这件事与飞机专利库的关键区别在于药品专利库是自发机制飞机专利持有者没有权利选择是否提供专利许可证他们的行为是被迫的这在药品专利库则不能实行的我们需要依赖制药公司的自发性为他人提供并分享他们的专利使用权
en:There is one key differencewith the airplane patent pool.The Medicines Patent Pool is a voluntary mechanism.The airplane patent holders were not left a choicewhether they&#39;d license their patents or not.They were forced to do so.That is something that the Medicines Patent Pool cannot do.It relies on the willingness of pharmaceutical companiesto license their patents and make them availablefor others to use.
时间： 8:33
zh-cn:今天，尼尔森恢复了健康他可以买到抗逆转录病毒药物他的儿子也很快年满14岁尼尔森成为了一个药品专利库专家咨询小组的成员不久前他告诉我“艾伦，在肯尼亚和其他很多国家我们依赖药品专利库，保障我们也能得到新的药品而且能在第一时间得到新的药品”
en:Today, Nelson Otwoma is healthy.He has access to antiretroviral drugs.His son will soon be 14 years old.Nelson is a member of the expert advisory groupof the Medicines Patent Pool,and he told me not so long ago,&quot;Ellen, we rely in Kenya and in many other countrieson the Medicines Patent Pool to make surethat new medicines also become available to us,that new medicines, without delay, become available to us.&quot;
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:这已不再是幻想我这就给你举个例子吧今年的八月，美国药品代理商通过了一种新的四合一的艾滋病药物持有该专利的吉利德公司就把知识产权共享给了药品专利库专利库已经开始工作，两个月后，就会有仿制药品制作商保证将该产品以低价及时并准确地推向需求市场这是前所未有的。通常情况下，一种新药在发展中国家要等10年才成为可能并最终上市这是前所未有的。尼尔森的期望很高这理所应当他和儿子需要下一代的抗逆转录病毒药物再下一代，甚至一生所以他和众多肯尼亚和其他国家的人可以继续过健康积极的生活
en:And this is no longer fantasy.Already, I&#39;ll give you an example.In August of this year, the United States drug agencyapproved a new four-in-one AIDS medication.The company, Gilead, that holds the patents,has licensed the intellectual property to the Medicines Patent Pool.The pool is already working today, two months later,with generic manufacturers to make sure that this productcan go to market at low costwhere and when it is needed. This is unprecedented.This has never been done before.The rule is about a 10-year delay for a new productto go to market in developing countries, if at all.This has never been seen before.Nelson&#39;s expectations are very high,and quite rightly so. He and his son will need accessto the next generation of antiretroviralsand the next, throughout their lifetime,so that he and many others in Kenya and other countriescan continue to live healthy, active lives.
时间：10:25
zh-cn:我们当下需要依靠药品公司的自发行为实现这一愿望我们期望这些公司意识到这不仅符合全球福利的需要，也符合他们自己的利益通过药品专利库化冲突为合作当然他们也可以拒绝不过拒绝的结果可能会导致类似怀特兄弟在上个世纪所面临的处境那就是政府的强迫政策所以我提议现在就加入吧谢谢（鼓掌）
en:Now we count on the willingness of drug companiesto make that happen. We count on those companiesthat understand that it is in the interest, not only in the interestof the global good, but also in their own interest,to move from conflict to collaboration,and through the Medicines Patent Pool they can make that happen.They can also choose not to do that,but those that go down that road may end upin a similar situation the Wright brothers ended up withearly last century, facing forcible measuresby government. So they&#39;d better jump now.Thank you. (Applause)
