时间： 0:16
zh-cn:我今天要谈论的是在撒哈拉沙漠以南的非洲那里艾滋病的情况我知道在场的观众都受过很良好的教育所以我可以猜想到你们都了解一些关于艾滋病的事情你可能知道在非洲大约有两千五百万人感染了这种病毒，艾滋病是一种因贫穷而带来的疾病如果我们能让非洲摆脱贫困，我们就能同样减轻艾滋病疫情如果你了解足够多的话，你可能知道迄今为止乌干达是唯一一个在撒哈拉以南非洲的国家中成功防治艾滋病启用了鼓励人们禁欲，忠贞，并使用安全套的运动被称为ABC准则。在九十年代它们大大减少了艾滋病的传播仅仅几年内就从百分之15减到了百分之6如果你关心时政，你可能知道几年前总统承诺动用150亿美元在五年间抗击疫情一大部分钱都会被用来启动一些项目试图仿造乌干达用行为变革来引导人们并减少疫情。
en:So I want to talk to you today about AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa.And this is a pretty well-educated audience,so I imagine you all know something about AIDS.You probably know that roughly 25 million people in Africaare infected with the virus, that AIDS is a disease of poverty,and that if we can bring Africa out of poverty, we would decrease AIDS as well.If you know something more, you probably know that Uganda, to date,is the only country in sub-Saharan Africathat has had success in combating the epidemic.Using a campaign that encouraged people to abstain, be faithful, and use condoms —the ABC campaign — they decreased their prevalence in the 1990sfrom about 15 percent to 6 percent over just a few years.If you follow policy, you probably know that a few years agothe president pledged 15 billion dollars to fight the epidemic over five years,and a lot of that money is going to go to programs that try to replicate Ugandaand use behavior change to encourage people and decrease the epidemic.
时间： 1:10
zh-cn:然而今天我想讲一些你们可能不知道的事情事实上，我同时会颠覆一些你们自以为知道的事情要做到这些我就要讲一下我作为一个经济学家所做的研究。我不是真的要谈经济我不会谈论什么出口和价格。但我会用一些经济学家们熟悉的工具和思想去思考一个习惯上被认为是在公共卫生和流行病学领域的问题在这个意义上，这真的很符合横向思维的方式我会用某个学科的一些工具来思考另一个学科一些问题
en:So today I&#39;m going to talk about some thingsthat you might not know about the epidemic,and I&#39;m actually also going to challengesome of these things that you think that you do know.To do that I&#39;m going to talk about my researchas an economist on the epidemic.And I&#39;m not really going to talk much about the economy.I&#39;m not going to tell you about exports and prices.But I&#39;m going to use tools and ideas that are familiar to economiststo think about a problem that&#39;s more traditionallypart of public health and epidemiology.And I think in that sense, this fits really nicely with this lateral thinking idea.Here I&#39;m really using the tools of one academic disciplineto think about problems of another.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:我想首先来说，艾滋病是一个政策的问题可能对于在这个房里的大多人来说，你们就是这么想的。但这次的演讲是有关于理解疫情传播的实事有关于思考它如何逐渐形成，人们又是如何应对的我可能会忽略政策一类的东西实事它们是最重要的我希望在演讲完毕你们能知道我们无法实施有效的政策除非我们明白的疫情是如何发生的
en:So we think, first and foremost, AIDS is a policy issue.And probably for most people in this room, that&#39;s how you think about it.But this talk is going to be about understanding facts about the epidemic.It&#39;s going to be about thinking about how it evolves, and how people respond to it.I think it may seem like I&#39;m ignoring the policy stuff,which is really the most important,but I&#39;m hoping that at the end of this talk you will concludethat we actually cannot develop effective policyunless we really understand how the epidemic works.
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:我想讲的第一点我认为我们必须理解的第一点是人们如何应对这种流行病的艾滋病是经由性传播感染的，它足以致命。也就是说在一个艾滋病泛滥的地方性交带来的代价也十分大在博茨瓦那艾滋病感病率是百分之30，如果你是此处的未感染者如果你今年将多一个长期的伴侣，或许是女友，或许是情妇在十年内可能死去的概率会提高三个百分点
en:And the first thing that I want to talk about,the first thing I think we need to understand is:how do people respond to the epidemic?So AIDS is a sexually transmitted infection, and it kills you.So this means that in a place with a lot of AIDS,there&#39;s a really significant cost of sex.If you&#39;re an uninfected man living in Botswana, where the HIV rate is 30 percent,if you have one more partner this year — a long-term partner, girlfriend, mistress —your chance of dying in 10 years increases by three percentage points.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:这种影响是巨大的所以我们会意识到，人们真的需要减少性行为。事实上在美国的男同性恋中在八十年代我们确实看到了这种改变如果我们调查这个独特的高危人群，当他们被问到在过去的两个月里你是否有多于一个未采取保护措施的性伴侣时数据表明从84到88年，比例从百分之85下降到百分之55在如此短的时间里，这是一个巨大的变化。
en:That is a huge effect.And so I think that we really feel like then people should have less sex.And in fact among gay men in the USwe did see that kind of change in the 1980s.So if we look in this particularly high-risk sample, they&#39;re being asked,&quot;Did you have more than one unprotected sexual partner in the last two months?&quot;Over a period from &#39;84 to &#39;88, that share drops from about 85 percent to 55 percent.It&#39;s a huge change in a very short period of time.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:在非洲我们从未看到这样的改变。我们没有这么好的数据，但你会发现单身男人婚前性行为或者已婚男人的婚外性行为的数据比例如何从九十年代初到九十年代末，从九十年代末到二十世纪初是如何变化的。疫情的传播变得更加严重。人们对疾病的了解更多了但在性行为上却几乎没发生变化。仅仅有两个百分点的微小减弱
en:We didn&#39;t see anything like that in Africa.So we don&#39;t have quite as good data, but you can see herethe share of single men having pre-marital sex,or married men having extra-marital sex,and how that changes from the early &#39;90s to late &#39;90s,and late &#39;90s to early 2000s. The epidemic is getting worse.People are learning more things about it.We see almost no change in sexual behavior.These are just tiny decreases — two percentage points — not significant.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:这似乎很令人困惑，但我要说你不应该对此感到吃惊。想要理解这个，你需要用经济学家的思维来考虑有关健康的事 用一种投资的思想如果你是一个软件工程师 当你在思考在你的设计里是否要加一些新的功能时要花费多少成本是必须要考虑的。能带来多少利益也是必须要考虑的。其中有一点就是你认为这个设计会在多长时间内有效。如果第十版会在下周发行，就没有必要在第九版中再加功能了。
en:This seems puzzling. But I&#39;m going to argue that you shouldn&#39;t be surprised by this,and that to understand this you need to think about healththe way than an economist does — as an investment.So if you&#39;re a software engineer and you&#39;re trying to think aboutwhether to add some new functionality to your program,it&#39;s important to think about how much it costs.It&#39;s also important to think about what the benefit is.And one part of that benefit is how much longeryou think this program is going to be active.If version 10 is coming out next week,there&#39;s no point in adding more functionality into version nine.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:而你的健康选择也是如此。每一次你放弃饼干而去吃胡萝卜时每一次你去健身中心而不是去电影院时这就是对你健康的极大投资。但你要投资多少就取决于你预期能活多久就算你不做这些投资艾滋病也依旧存在 避免艾滋是花费巨大的人们真的很喜欢做爱。就未来长寿而言，它确实有好处。但在非洲的平均寿命，即使没有艾滋病，依旧非常非常低：在大部分地方是40到50岁。可能的话，我们用直觉想想，结合实事想想，这或许能解释一部分这种低行为变革的原因。
en:But your health decisions are the same.Every time you have a carrot instead of a cookie,every time you go to the gym instead of going to the movies,that&#39;s a costly investment in your health.But how much you want to invest is going to dependon how much longer you expect to live in the future,even if you don&#39;t make those investments.AIDS is the same kind of thing. It&#39;s costly to avoid AIDS.People really like to have sex.But, you know, it has a benefit in terms of future longevity.But life expectancy in Africa, even without AIDS, is really, really low:40 or 50 years in a lot of places.I think it&#39;s possible, if we think about that intuition, and think about that fact,that maybe that explains some of this low behavior change.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:但我们急需检测一下。一种很好的检测方法就是调查非洲的各个地区：在平均寿命高的地方人们改变性行为的习惯是不是多一些？我想做的就是去调查有着不同疟疾疫情的地区。疟疾是一种致命的疾病。在非洲它使无数的成人和儿童失去生命。那住在疟疾病率高的地方的人们将比疟疾爆发不严重地方的平均寿命要低一些所以检验的一种方法就是我们是否能将平均寿命的差异与行为变革相联系并看看在疟疾疫情较轻的的地区是不是行为变革就越多。
en:But we really need to test that.And a great way to test that is to look across areas in Africa and see:do people with more life expectancy change their sexual behavior more?And the way that I&#39;m going to do that is,I&#39;m going to look across areas with different levels of malaria.So malaria is a disease that kills you.It&#39;s a disease that kills a lot of adults in Africa, in addition to a lot of children.And so people who live in areas with a lot of malariaare going to have lower life expectancy than people who live in areas with limited malaria.So one way to test to see whether we can explainsome of this behavior change by differences in life expectancyis to look and see is there more behavior changein areas where there&#39;s less malaria.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:大家看看这些数据你会发现在疟疾疫情不同的地区当艾滋病感染率变高时性伴侣的数量如何变化看这条蓝线在这些疟疾疫情较轻的地区性伴侣的数量在巨减当艾滋病感染率变高的时候在中度疫情的地方也减少了一些但没那么多。在重度疫情的地区也减少了一点点，但非常不显著
en:So that&#39;s what this figure shows you.This shows you — in areas with low malaria, medium malaria, high malaria —what happens to the number of sexual partners as you increase HIV prevalence.If you look at the blue line,the areas with low levels of malaria, you can see in those areas,actually, the number of sexual partners is decreasing a lotas HIV prevalence goes up.Areas with medium levels of malaria it decreases some —it doesn&#39;t decrease as much. And areas with high levels of malaria —actually, it&#39;s increasing a little bit, although that&#39;s not significant.
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:不仅仅是通过疟疾。在这片地区年轻妇女有着高孕产妇死亡率为应对艾滋病而改变的行为也比那些同地区低孕产妇死亡率的女性少些。当有另一个威胁时，他们这种威胁的顾虑少些。
en:This is not just through malaria.Young women who live in areas with high maternal mortalitychange their behavior less in response to HIVthan young women who live in areas with low maternal mortality.There&#39;s another risk, and they respond less to this existing risk.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:就此而言，它告诉我们许多人们如何行为的事实。它说明了在非洲行为变革十分有限的原因
en:So by itself, I think this tells a lot about how people behave.It tells us something about why we see limited behavior change in Africa.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:同时也说明了一些关于政策的事情就算你只关心在非洲的艾滋病情况投资治理疟疾也是一种不错的想法可以改进室内欠佳的空气质量降低孕产妇死亡率因为你一旦改进这些人们就会自觉地防治艾滋病但它同样也说明了一个我们之前讨论过的事实教育运动 就如同总统用他的资金所致力的那样是不够的 至少单独是不行的如果人们没有防治艾滋病的自觉就算人们知道了疾病的知识他们也不会改变自己的行为
en:But it also tells us something about policy.Even if you only cared about AIDS in Africa,it might still be a good idea to invest in malaria,in combating poor indoor air quality,in improving maternal mortality rates.Because if you improve those things,then people are going to have an incentive to avoid AIDS on their own.But it also tells us something about one of these facts that we talked about before.Education campaigns, like the one that the president is focusing on in his funding,may not be enough, at least not alone.If people have no incentive to avoid AIDS on their own,even if they know everything about the disease,they still may not change their behavior.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:我们必须了解的另一点是艾滋病不会自我修正人们的行为改变不足以减弱传播的增长我们要重新考虑政策哪一种政策会更有效
en:So the other thing that I think we learn here is that AIDS is not going to fix itself.People aren&#39;t changing their behavior enoughto decrease the growth in the epidemic.So we&#39;re going to need to think about policyand what kind of policies might be effective.
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:看看过去哪些政策有效能极大帮住我们我们知道ABC准则在乌干达有效是因为我们有过去的数据来佐证我们知道在乌干达传播极大的减弱而他们有实施了这个运动 所以我们得出它有效的结论这不是我们有介入的唯一地区别的地方也实施了政策 为什么我们不同样看看这些地方看看他们的传播率是否变化了
en:And a great way to learn about policy is to look at what worked in the past.The reason that we know that the ABC campaignwas effective in Uganda is we have good data on prevalence over time.In Uganda we see the prevalence went down.We know they had this campaign. That&#39;s how we learn about what works.It&#39;s not the only place we had any interventions.Other places have tried things, so why don&#39;t we look at those placesand see what happened to their prevalence?
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:不幸的是，在非洲截止2003年关于艾滋病传播的在整体人口上的数据再也没有了如果我问你 为什么不告诉我在布基纳法索1991年传播率是多少你上了谷歌 却发现在布基纳法索1991年受测试的人只有性病患者和孕妇这并不是极具代表性的一个人群如果你再深入一点 你就会发现更多你会发现当年情况很好因为在那几年被测试者只有静脉吸毒者实际上情况更糟 几年只有静脉吸毒者几年只有孕妇我们无法得知那几年到底发生了什么我们没有前后一致的测试
en:Unfortunately, there&#39;s almost no good dataon HIV prevalence in the general population in Africa until about 2003.So if I asked you, &quot;Why don&#39;t you go and find methe prevalence in Burkina Faso in 1991?&quot;You get on Google, you Google, and you find,actually the only people tested in Burkina Faso in 1991are STD patients and pregnant women,which is not a terribly representative group of people.Then if you poked a little more, you looked a little more at what was going on,you&#39;d find that actually that was a pretty good year,because in some years the only people tested are IV drug users.But even worse — some years it&#39;s only IV drug users,some years it&#39;s only pregnant women.We have no way to figure out what happened over time.We have no consistent testing.
时间： 7:49
zh-cn:在最后几年 我们确实做了一些比较好的测试在肯尼亚 在赞比亚 和一些国家这些测试都是在人口中随机进行的但它却在我们的认知里留下一个巨大的鸿沟我能告诉你在肯尼亚2003年的感染情况但我不能告诉你关于1993年到1983年的任何情况
en:Now in the last few years, we actually have done some good testing.In Kenya, in Zambia, and a bunch of countries,there&#39;s been testing in random samples of the population.But this leaves us with a big gap in our knowledge.So I can tell you what the prevalence was in Kenya in 2003,but I can&#39;t tell you anything about 1993 or 1983.
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:现在的政策有问题 我过去的研究也有问题我开始思考我们能不能得到别的什么关于过去非洲艾滋病的感染情况结论是我们分析死亡率用死亡率来估算艾滋病的感染率
en:So this is a problem for policy. It was a problem for my research.And I started thinking about how else might we figure outwhat the prevalence of HIV was in Africa in the past.And I think that the answer is, we can look at mortality data,and we can use mortality data to figure out what the prevalence was in the past.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:要完成这个 我们要建立在艾滋病是一种非常特殊的疾病的事实上它在人们年轻的时候置人于死地并没有太多其他的疾病也像这样 你可以看到这是一个以年龄划分关于在博茨瓦那和埃及的人口死亡率的图表博茨瓦纳是一个艾滋病疫情严重的地方埃及是一个没有太多艾滋病患者的地方它们有着在儿童和老年人群中相似的死亡率这说明他们有着相似的发展水平
en:To do this, we&#39;re going to have to rely on the factthat AIDS is a very specific kind of disease.It kills people in the prime of their lives.Not a lot of other diseases have that profile. And you can see here —this is a graph of death rates by age in Botswana and Egypt.Botswana is a place with a lot of AIDS,Egypt is a place without a lot of AIDS.And you see they have pretty similar death rates among young kids and old people.That suggests it&#39;s pretty similar levels of development.
时间： 8:50
zh-cn:但在中间层 在20到45岁间在博茨瓦纳的死亡率要远高于在埃及的又由于少有其他的致命性疾病这种死亡率只能是由艾滋病导致的但又由于当年死于艾滋病的是在几年前就得病的我们就可以用这些数据来了解过去艾滋病的感染情况结果是如果你用这种方法你所估算的感病率将会与我们随机抽样所得的结果很相近却与联合国艾滋病联合工作组提供的数据大相径庭
en:But in this middle region, between 20 and 45,the death rates in Botswana are much, much, much higher than in Egypt.But since there are very few other diseases that kill people,we can really attribute that mortality to HIV.But because people who died this year of AIDS got it a few years ago,we can use this data on mortality to figure out what HIV prevalence was in the past.So it turns out, if you use this technique,actually your estimates of prevalence are very closeto what we get from testing random samples in the population,but they&#39;re very, very different than what UNAIDS tells us the prevalences are.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:这是一个由联合国艾滋病联合工作组统计的感病数据另外一个是用死亡率估测出来的在九十年代末非洲十九个国家中的感染率数据几乎毫无例外的联合国艾滋病联合工作组的测算数据远高于这一组联合国艾滋病联合工作组说在赞比亚艾滋病感染率是百分之20但用死亡率估测的确只有百分之5这在死亡率中绝不是微小的差距从另一个角度来看如果感染率真有联合国艾滋病联合工作组说的那么高的话我们应该看到在这个年龄层中半分之0.6的死亡率 而不是百分之0.2
en:So this is a graph of prevalence estimated by UNAIDS,and prevalence based on the mortality datafor the years in the late 1990s in nine countries in Africa.You can see, almost without exception,the UNAIDS estimates are much higher than the mortality-based estimates.UNAIDS tell us that the HIV rate in Zambia is 20 percent,and mortality estimates suggest it&#39;s only about 5 percent.And these are not trivial differences in mortality rates.So this is another way to see this.You can see that for the prevalence to be as high as UNAIDS says,we have to really see 60 deaths per 10,000rather than 20 deaths per 10,000 in this age group.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:我想花一点时间来谈一下我们怎么用这种信息来了解事物这将会有助于我们了解世界但它同样也说明了我在开始提到的一些事实并不正确如果你认为2500万人感染了如果你认为联合国艾滋病联合工作组的数据太高了或许应该是1000到1500万人这却不意味着艾滋病不是一个问题 这绝对是个大问题只是之前的数据有些过大我真正想做的是用这些新数据去找到是什么影响了艾滋病传播的增长快慢
en:I&#39;m going to talk a little bit in a minuteabout how we can use this kind of information to learn somethingthat&#39;s going to help us think about the world.But this also tells us that one of these factsthat I mentioned in the beginning may not be quite right.If you think that 25 million people are infected,if you think that the UNAIDS numbers are much too high,maybe that&#39;s more like 10 or 15 million.It doesn&#39;t mean that AIDS isn&#39;t a problem. It&#39;s a gigantic problem.But it does suggest that that number might be a little big.What I really want to do, is I want to use this new datato try to figure out what makes the HIV epidemic grow faster or slower.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:我在开始说 我不会谈什么进口之类的事我在开始研究这些项目时并不是全想的跟经济学有关的东西但事实上它会将你引导回去我要讲一些跟出口和价格有关的东西我想谈一下经济活动特别是出口量和艾滋病传染之间的关系
en:And I said in the beginning, I wasn&#39;t going to tell you about exports.When I started working on these projects,I was not thinking at all about economics,but eventually it kind of sucks you back in.So I am going to talk about exports and prices.And I want to talk about the relationship between economic activity,in particular export volume, and HIV infections.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:很明显我作为一个经济学家 我更加熟悉对外贸易的发展和开放将会给发展中国家带来极大的好处这有助于改善民生但开放和全球联系 是会有成本的一旦和疾病联系起来 我觉得大家不应该吃惊在周三 劳里·加勒特跟我说我肯定会得禽流感的但我丝毫不用担心只要我和亚洲走的不近
en:So obviously, as an economist, I&#39;m deeply familiarwith the fact that development, that openness to trade,is really good for developing countries.It&#39;s good for improving people&#39;s lives.But openness and inter-connectedness, it comes with a costwhen we think about disease. I don&#39;t think this should be a surprise.On Wednesday, I learned from Laurie Garrettthat I&#39;m definitely going to get the bird flu,and I wouldn&#39;t be at all worried about thatif we never had any contact with Asia.
时间：11:20
zh-cn:艾滋病与过境的联系很紧密这个传染病是由一个在航班上的男管理员带来美国的他在非洲染了病 然后就带了回来这是艾滋病在美国传播的起源在非洲 流行病学家早注意到卡车司机和移民比其他人群更易感染在那些经济活动较多公路较多 城市化更快的地方比其他的地方流行强度更大
en:And HIV is actually particularly closely linked to transit.The epidemic was introduced to the USby actually one male steward on an airline flight,who got the disease in Africa and brought it back.And that was the genesis of the entire epidemic in the US.In Africa, epidemiologists have noted for a long timethat truck drivers and migrants are more likely to be infected than other people.Areas with a lot of economic activity —with a lot of roads, with a lot of urbanization —those areas have higher prevalence than others.
时间：11:50
zh-cn:事实上这并不意味着什么如果出口扩大，贸易加强，它就会增加传播度在使用了新数据 使用了跨时段的传播度信息后我就能真正地检测它 那么这意味着很幸运的是就我看来这些事件是正相关的出口越多意味着艾滋病患者越多 而且这种影响是巨大的我研究的数据表明如果出口量扩大两倍会导致艾滋病感染病例数扩大四倍
en:But that actually doesn&#39;t mean at allthat if we gave people more exports, more trade, that that would increase prevalence.By using this new data, using this information about prevalence over time,we can actually test that. And so it seems to be —fortunately, I think — it seems to be the casethat these things are positively related.More exports means more AIDS. And that effect is really big.So the data that I have suggests that if you double export volume,it will lead to a quadrupling of new HIV infections.
时间：12:21
zh-cn:这对于预测和政策都有重要的影响从预测的角度 如果我们知道何处贸易将发生变化比方说因为非洲增长与机遇法案或其他鼓励贸易的政策出台我们可以想见哪些地方将受到艾滋病的侵袭我们就可去那里 采取先发制人的预防措施同样地 如果我们要出台鼓励出口的政策我们知道有这样一种外部性因为我们增加出口所带来的其他事情的变化我们就可以更好的制定政策
en:So this has important implications both for forecasting and for policy.From a forecasting perspective, if we know where trade is likely to change,for example, because of the African Growth and Opportunities Actor other policies that encourage trade,we can actually think about which areas are likely to be heavily infected with HIV.And we can go and we can try to have pre-emptive preventive measures there.Likewise, as we&#39;re developing policies to try to encourage exports,if we know there&#39;s this externality —this extra thing that&#39;s going to happen as we increase exports —we can think about what the right kinds of policies are.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:它同样也说明了一些我们觉得我们了解的事情尽管艾滋病是和贫困紧密相连而且非洲很穷 他们那也有很多艾滋病患者但改变贫穷的现状也不是必须的 至少在短期不是加大出口和扩大发展也并不一定能够减轻艾滋病的传播
en:But it also tells us something about one of these things that we think that we know.Even though it is the case that poverty is linked to AIDS,in the sense that Africa is poor and they have a lot of AIDS,it&#39;s not necessarily the case that improving poverty — at least in the short run,that improving exports and improving development —it&#39;s not necessarily the case that that&#39;s going to leadto a decline in HIV prevalence.
时间：13:14
zh-cn:至始至终我提到过几次乌干达的特殊案例它是唯一一个在撒哈拉以南的非洲国家里的成功预防案例它广为人知在肯尼亚、坦桑尼亚、南非以及很多地方被复制使用我现在真正想置疑的是因为在九十年代在乌干达传播率确实下降了 他们也确实采取的是教育运动但在那个时期在乌干达还发生了一些别的事
en:So throughout this talk I&#39;ve mentioned a few timesthe special case of Uganda, and the fact thatit&#39;s the only country in sub-Saharan Africa with successful prevention.It&#39;s been widely heralded.It&#39;s been replicated in Kenya, and Tanzania, and South Africa and many other places.But now I want to actually also question that.Because it is true that there was a decline in prevalencein Uganda in the 1990s. It&#39;s true that they had an education campaign.But there was actually something else that happened in Uganda in this period.
时间：13:47
zh-cn:在咖啡价格上有很大的下降咖啡是乌干达的主要出口产品在九十年代早期他们出口量大幅下降 而这种降幅的变化这和新感染艾滋病数的降幅极度接近你们可看到这些黑线是出口值 红线是新感染艾滋病数你发现它们都增长了从1987年起 它们又都开始大幅下降它们的轨迹在年代末的增加变化上又有一些重叠
en:There was a big decline in coffee prices.Coffee is Uganda&#39;s major export.Their exports went down a lot in the early 1990s — and actually that decline lines upreally, really closely with this decline in new HIV infections.So you can see that both of these series —the black line is export value, the red line is new HIV infections —you can see they&#39;re both increasing.Starting about 1987 they&#39;re both going down a lot.And then actually they track each othera little bit on the increase later in the decade.
时间：14:14
zh-cn:将你的直觉和我之前讲的一些数据联系起来则发现大约有百分之25到50的在乌干达的传播减少比率是在没有任何教育运动的情况下也会发生的
en:So if you combine the intuition in this figurewith some of the data that I talked about before,it suggests that somewhere between 25 percent and 50 percentof the decline in prevalence in Ugandaactually would have happened even without any education campaign.
时间：14:29
zh-cn:这对于制定政策极度重要我们花了大量的钱试图复制这项运动但如果仅仅只有我们预想的效果的一半的话我们何不把我们的钱投在一些其他的事上呢通过应对其他性传播疾病来试图改变传播速度通过包皮环切术来改变他们有数以万计的事我们还可以做我们或许应该多考虑一下这些方面的事
en:But that&#39;s enormously important for policy.We&#39;re spending so much money to try to replicate this campaign.And if it was only 50 percent as effective as we think that it was,then there are all sorts of other thingsmaybe we should be spending our money on instead.Trying to change transmission rates by treating other sexually transmitted diseases.Trying to change them by engaging in male circumcision.There are tons of other things that we should think about doing.And maybe this tells us that we should be thinking more about those things.
时间：14:52
zh-cn:希望在刚刚的16分钟我告诉了大家一些关于艾滋病不为人知的信息希望我引起了大家对一些自己知道的事的一些疑问我希望我使你们相信或许为了制定政策去了解传染病的事情是很重要的
en:I hope that in the last 16 minutes I&#39;ve told you something that you didn&#39;t know about AIDS,and I hope that I&#39;ve gotten you questioning a little bitsome of the things that you did know.And I hope that I&#39;ve convinced you maybethat it&#39;s important to understand things about the epidemicin order to think about policy.
时间：15:08
zh-cn:但是你要知道 我是一个学者当我离开这 我会回到我的小办公室里 对着我的电脑 我的数据和那些每一次我开始研究时就会出现的让我无比兴奋的新问题我想要做的还要多得多能来这里真的非常非常棒我确信你们思考的问题将会跟我自己想的截然不同我迫不及待地想知道它们非常感谢大家。
en:But more than anything, you know, I&#39;m an academic.And when I leave here, I&#39;m going to go backand sit in my tiny office, and my computer, and my data.And the thing that&#39;s most exciting about thatis every time I think about research, there are more questions.There are more things that I think that I want to do.And what&#39;s really, really great about being hereis I&#39;m sure that the questions that you guys haveare very, very different than the questions that I think up myself.And I can&#39;t wait to hear about what they are.So thank you very much.
