时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我现在想你们所有人做的是想象一下我将要和你们谈的这种哺乳动物。关于这种动物我首先要告诉你们的是它对于我们生态系统的正常运转是必不可少的。如果我们从生态系统中除去这种动物，生态系统会运转失灵。这是第一点。第二是因为这种动物拥有的独特感知能力如果我们研究这种动物，我们就可以深入了解我们的感官疾病比如失明和失聪。这种动物第三个非常奇妙的方面是我完全相信青春常驻的秘密就隐藏在这种动物的DNA(脱氧核糖核酸)里。你们想的是什么？那么神奇的生物，是吗？在座有想到蝙蝠的吗？哈，有一半观众和我想的一样，我还要努力说服在座的其他人。
en:What I want you all to do right nowis to think of this mammal that I&#39;m going to describe to you.The first thing I&#39;m going to tell you about this mammalis that it is essential for our ecosystems to function correctly.If we remove this mammal from our ecosystems,they simply will not work.That&#39;s the first thing.The second thing is that due to the unique sensory abilitiesof this mammal, if we study this mammal,we&#39;re going to get great insight into our diseasesof the senses, such as blindness and deafness.And the third really intriguing aspect of this mammalis that I fully believe that the secret of everlasting youthlies deep within its DNA.So are you all thinking?So,magnificent creature, isn&#39;t it?Who here thought of a bat?Ah, I can see half the audience agrees with me,and I have a lot of work to do to convince the rest of you.
时间： 1:21
zh-cn:我非常幸运地在过去20年里研究这些让人着迷的美丽的哺乳动物。现存的哺乳动物中有五分之一是蝙蝠，它们有非常独特的属性。据我们所知蝙蝠已经在这个星球上繁衍了大概六千四百万年。蝙蝠其中一个最独特的地方在于它们作为哺乳动物却可以飞行。飞行是一件本质上很困难的事情。飞行在脊椎动物中只进化过三次：一次在蝙蝠中， 一次在鸟类中，还有一次在翼龙中。而且飞行对新陈代谢的消耗是很高的。蝙蝠习得如何飞行并进化成擅长飞行。
en:So I have had the good fortune for the past 20 yearsto study these fascinating and beautiful mammals.One fifth of all living mammals is a bat,and they have very unique attributes.Bats as we know them have been around on this planetfor about 64 million years.One of the most unique things that bats doas a mammal is that they fly.Now flight is an inherently difficult thing.Flight within vertebrates has only evolved three times:once in the bats, once in the birds,and once in the pterodactyls.And so with flight, it&#39;s very metabolically costly.Bats have learned and evolved how to deal with this.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:但蝙蝠还有另一个奇特的地方那就是它们能够运用声音感知周围环境。它们用回声定位。我所说的回声定位是指蝙蝠用喉咙发出声音经过嘴巴或经过鼻子。声波发射出去声波碰到周围的物体反射返回，蝙蝠便会听到这些回声它们把这些信息转变成声像图。这就足以让他们在一片漆黑中定位。确实，它们看起来很奇怪。我们是人类我们是视觉物种。当科学家们第一次意识到蝙蝠竟然凭借声音来飞行并能在夜间定位和移动，我们无法相信。近一百年里，尽管证据显示蝙蝠确实是这样的，我们还是不能相信。
en:But one other extremely unique thing about batsis that they are able to use soundto perceive their environment. They use echolocation.Now, what I mean by echolocation —they emit a sound from their larynx out through their mouthor through their nose. This sound wave comes outand it reflects and echoes back off objects in their environment,and the bats then hear these echoesand they turn this information into an acoustic image.And this enables them to orient in complete darkness.Indeed, they do look very strange. We&#39;re humans.We&#39;re a visual species. When scientists first realizedthat bats were actually using sound to be able to flyand orient and move at night, we didn&#39;t believe it.For a hundred years, despite evidence to showthat this is what they were doing, we didn&#39;t believe it.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:如果你看一下这只蝙蝠，它看起来有点异类。事实上，非常著名的哲学家托马斯‧内格尔（Thomas Nagel）曾经说过 “要真正体验这个星球上异类的生命形态你应该把自己关在房间里在完全黑暗中和一只飞行的 靠回声定位的蝙蝠在一起。”如果你看看蝙蝠的实体特征看看这只漂亮菊头蝠的脸，你会看到很多特征都有助于它们发出声音，察觉声音。很大的耳朵，奇怪的鼻叶，非常小的眼睛。所以如果你看到蝙蝠的样子，你会意识到声音对于它的生存而言是很重要的。
en:Now, if you look at this bat, it looks a little bit alien.Indeed, the very famous philosopher Thomas Nagelonce said, &quot;To truly experience an alien life formon this planet, you should lock yourself inside a roomwith a flying, echolocating bat in complete darkness.&quot;And if you look at the actual physical characteristicson the face of this beautiful horseshoe bat,you see a lot of these characteristics are dedicatedto be able to make sound and perceive it.Very big ears, strange nose leaves, but teeny-tiny eyes.So again, if you just look at this bat, you realizesound is very important for its survival.
时间： 3:48
zh-cn:大部分的蝙蝠看起来都像之前的那一只。然而有一种蝙蝠不用回声定位。它们不是用声音来感知环境，它们是飞狐。如果有人有幸到过澳大利亚，你可以在悉尼的植物园看到它们，如果你看看它们的脸，你可以看到它们有着更大的眼睛和更小的耳朵。所以蝙蝠种群在运用感观知觉的能力上存在很大的变异。这点很重要我下面的演讲也会提到。
en:Most bats look like the previous one.However, there are a group that do not use echolocation.They do not perceive their environment using sound,and these are the flying foxes.If anybody has ever been lucky enough to be in Australia,you&#39;ve seen them coming out of the Botanic Gardens in Sydney,and if you just look at their face, you can seethey have much, much larger eyes and much smaller ears.So among and within bats is a huge variationin their ability to use sensory perception.Now this is going to be important for what I&#39;m goingto tell you later during the talk.
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:如果想到钟楼里的蝙蝠会让你害怕，我知道也许有人在看到大幅的蝙蝠图像时会觉得有些不舒服那也许并不是什么让人惊讶的事，因为在我们西方文化里，蝙蝠已经被妖魔化。真的，当然那本有名的《德库拉》北都柏林的布莱姆•斯托克所写的书也许该对此负上主要责任。然后，我也认为这和事实上蝙蝠在晚上出来活动也有关系，我们并不真正懂得它们。我们有一点害怕那些和我们使用不同方式感知世界的生物。蝙蝠常常是某些邪恶事情的同义词。它们是恐怖电影里面的作恶者，比如这部有名的“夜翼”。如果你想一想，恶魔通常有蝙蝠翼，而鸟类就不同天使通常有鸟翼。
en:Now, if the idea of bats in your belfry terrifies you,and I know some people probably are feeling a little sicklooking at very large images of bats,that&#39;s probably not that surprising,because here in Western culture,bats have been demonized.Really, of course the famous book &quot;Dracula,&quot;written by a fellow Northside Dubliner Bram Stoker,probably is mainly responsible for this.However, I also think it&#39;s got to do with the factthat bats come out at night, and we don&#39;treally understand them. We&#39;re a little frightened by thingsthat can perceive the world slightly differently than us.Bats are usually synonymous with some type of evil events.They are the perpetrators in horror movies,such as this famous &quot;Nightwing.&quot;Also, if you think about it, demonsalways have bat wings, whereas birds, they typically —or angels have bird wings.
时间： 5:19
zh-cn:这是西方社会的情况，我希望在今晚说服你们，在中国传统文化中，他们把蝙蝠看作可以带来好运气的生物。确实，如果你走进一个中国家庭，你可能会看到这样一幅图。这被认为是五福临门。汉字“蝠”听起来就像汉字“福”，他们相信蝙蝠带来富贵，康宁，长寿，好德，善终。确实在这幅图中，你看到长寿被五只蝙蝠所包围。所以今晚我想对你们说的是想向你们展示的是这些福中至少三个确实可以由蝙蝠所代表。如果我们研究蝙蝠我们就越能靠近这三个福。
en:Now, this is Western society, and what I hope to do tonightis to convince you of the Chinese traditional culture,that they perceive bats ascreatures that bring good luck, and indeed, if you walkinto a Chinese home, you may see an image such as this.This is considered the Five Blessings.The Chinese word for &quot;bat&quot; sounds like the Chinese wordfor &quot;happiness,&quot; and they believe that batsbring wealth, health, longevity, virtue and serenity.And indeed, in this image, you have a picture of longevitysurrounded by five bats.And what I want to do tonight is to talk to youand to show you that at least three of these blessingsare definitely represented by a bat, and that if we study batswe will get nearer to getting each of these blessings.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:首先，财富，蝙蝠怎么可能给我们带来财富呢？正如我之前所说，蝙蝠对我们生态系统的正常运转必不可少。为什么会这样？热带地区的蝙蝠是许多植物的传粉者。它们以水果为食并会传播这些水果的种子。蝙蝠负责传播龙舌兰植物的花粉，这在墨西哥是个价值上百亿美元的行业。所以我们确实需要蝙蝠来让我们的生态系统正常运转。如果没有它们，可能就会出现问题了。大多数的蝙蝠喜欢捕食昆虫。据估计在美国一小群的冠蝙蝠一年就进食超过一百万只昆虫。现在在美国蝙蝠正受到一种名为白鼻症的疾病威胁。这种疾病正在美国缓慢蔓延并消灭蝙蝠的数量。科学家已预计现在每年有1300公吨的昆虫因为蝙蝠的减少而留在生态系统里。蝙蝠在美国受到威胁因为它们会被吸引去风电场。现在，蝙蝠面临着一些问题。它们受很大威胁。光是在美国就这样。
en:So, wealth — how can a bat possibly bring us wealth?Now as I said before, bats are essential for our ecosystemsto function correctly. And why is this?Bats in the tropics are major pollinators of many plants.They also feed on fruit, and they disperse the seedsof these fruits. Bats are responsible for pollinatingthe tequila plant, and this is a multi-million dollar industryin Mexico. So indeed, we need themfor our ecosystems to function properly.Without them, it&#39;s going to be a problem.But most bats are voracious insect predators.It&#39;s been estimated in the U.S., in a tiny colonyof big brown bats, that they will feedon over a million insects a year,and in the United States of America, right nowbats are being threatened by a disease known as white-nose syndrome.It&#39;s working its way slowly across the U.S. and wiping outpopulations of bats, and scientists have estimatedthat 1,300 metric tons of insects a year are nowremaining in the ecosystems due to the loss of bats.Bats are also threatened in the U.S.by their attraction to wind farms. Again, right nowbats are looking at a little bit of a problem.They&#39;re going to — They are very threatenedin the United States of America alone.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:这对我们有什么帮助吗？据计算如果我们把蝙蝠移除出生态系统， 我们那时就要用杀虫剂来消灭所有害虫害虫蛀食我们的农作物。如果我们消灭蝙蝠，据计算光在美国一年，就将要花费220亿美元。所以蝙蝠确实带给我们财富。他们维持我们生态系统的健康运转并帮我们省钱。这是第一个福。蝙蝠对我们的生态系统很重要。
en:Now how can this help us?Well, it has been calculated that if we were to remove batsfrom the equation, we&#39;re going to have to then useinsecticides to remove all those pest insectsthat feed on our agricultural crops.And for one year in the U.S. alone, it&#39;s estimatedthat it&#39;s going to cost 22 billion U.S. dollars,if we remove bats. So indeed, bats then do bring us wealth.They maintain the health of our ecosystems,and also they save us money.So again, that&#39;s the first blessing. Bats are importantfor our ecosystems.
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:第二点是什么？有关健康吗？你身体里的每一个细胞都有你的基因组。基因组是由DNA构成的，你的DNA编码蛋白质，蛋白质负责你的正常活动与他人联系以及其他所有生命活动。得益于现代分子技术的新进步，现在我们可以测出自己的基因组，只需很少时间和很低的费用。当我们这么做时，我们会意识到，在我们的基因组里存在很多变异。我想你看看在你身边的人。迅速看一眼。我们要意识到，你的DNA中的每300个碱基对中，你有那么一点不同。现在巨大的挑战之一是现代分子医学致力于弄清楚这些基因变异是否让你更容易感染疾病，或者是否这些变异让你和其他人不同？这意味着什么？这些变异究竟意味着什么？ 如果我们利用所有这些新的分子学数据和联机得到的个人基因组信息，我们将能够在未来的几年里， 我们将能够区分彼此。我们怎么做到的呢？
en:And what about the second? What about health?Inside every cell in your body lies your genome.Your genome is made up of your DNA,your DNA codes for proteins that enable you to functionand interact and be as you are.Now since the new advancements in modern molecular technologies,it is now possible for us to sequence our own genomein a very rapid time and at a very, very reduced cost.Now when we&#39;ve been doing this, we&#39;ve realizedthat there&#39;s variations within our genome.So I want you to look at the person beside you.Just have a quick look. And what we need to realizeis that every 300 base pairs in your DNA, you&#39;re a little bit different.And one of the grand challenges right nowin modern molecular medicine is to work outwhether this variation makes you more susceptible to diseases,or does this variation just make you different?Again, what does it mean here? What does this variationactually mean? So if we are to capitalize on all of thisnew molecular data and personalized genomic informationthat is coming online that we will be able to havein the next few years, we have to be able to differentiatebetween the two. So how do we do this?
时间： 9:30
zh-cn:我认为我们只要看看大自然的实验。通过自然选择，随着时间流逝，那些破坏了蛋白质功能的突变和变异会逐渐被淘汰。进化就像一个筛子，筛掉不好的变异。因此，如果你去看看很多哺乳动物基因组的同一位置他们已经进化到很不一样，生态上也很不一样，你就能更好地理解哪一部分会优先进化，所以如果对哺乳动物的生存很重要的部分那么，对其他一切不同的血统，物种，类群也一样重要。所以如果我们真的要这么做，我们需要做的是测出所有不同哺乳动物那一区域的序列，确定它们相同还是不同。如果序列相同，表明这个地方对某一功能很重要，疾病突变应该是发生在这个位点。这种情况下，如果我们研究的所有哺乳动物在那个位点都有黄色类型的基因，这可能暗示紫色类型的基因是不好的突变。如果你观察的哺乳动物在某功能稍有不同这种研究方法会更加强大。比如一个我正在观察的基因组，是对视力很重要的基因组。如果我们研究那些视力不太好的哺乳动物的基因组，比如蝙蝠， 我们发现蝙蝠视力不太好，它们紫色类型的基因，我们知道这也许是构成疾病的原因。
en:Well, I believe we just look at nature&#39;s experiments.So through natural selection, over time,mutations, variations that disrupt the function of a proteinwill not be tolerated over time.Evolution acts as a sieve. It sieves out the bad variation.And so therefore, if you look at the same regionof a genome in many mammals that have beenevolutionarily distant from each otherand are also ecologically divergent, you will get a betterunderstanding of what the evolutionary prior of that site is,i.e., if it is important for the mammal to function,for its survival, it will be the samein all of those different lineages, species, taxa.So therefore, if we were to do this,what we&#39;d need to do is sequence that regionin all these different mammals and ascertain if it&#39;s the sameor if it&#39;s different. So if it is the same,this indicates that that site is important for a function,so a disease mutation should fall within that site.So in this case here, if all the mammals that we look athave a yellow-type genome at that site,it probably suggests that purple is bad.This could be even more powerful if you look at mammalsthat are doing things slightly differently.So say, for example, the region of the genomethat I was looking at was a region that&#39;s important for vision.If we look at that region in mammals that don&#39;t see so well,such as bats, and we find that bats that don&#39;t see so wellhave the purple type, we know that this is probablywhat&#39;s causing this disease.
时间：11:11
zh-cn:在我的实验室里，我们一直尝试通过白蝙蝠观察两种不同类型的感官疾病。我们研究失明。为什么要这么做呢？世界上有三亿四千万人有视力障碍，其中的四千五百万人失明。所以失明是一个大问题。而很多视盲障碍来源于遗传病，所以我们想尝试更好地了解哪个基因突变引起这个疾病。我们也研究失聪。每1000个新生儿中有1个是聋的，当我们到了80岁的时候，我们中有超过一半的人有听力问题。同样，有很多潜在的遗传因素会导致这个疾病。所以我们实验室一直在做的是通过研究这些独一无二的感官专家—蝙蝠我们研究导致失明的基因。当基因有缺陷导致失明，基因有缺陷时导致失聪，现在我们能预测哪些位点最容易导致疾病。所以蝙蝠对我们的健康也很重要，帮助我们更好地明白我们基因组是如何运作的。
en:So in my lab, we&#39;ve been using bats to look at two differenttypes of diseases of the senses.We&#39;re looking at blindness. Now why would you do this?Three hundred and fourteen million people are visually impaired, and45 million of these are blind. So blindness is a big problem,and a lot of these blind disorders come from inherited diseases,so we want to try and better understandwhich mutations in the gene cause the disease.Also we look at deafness. One in every 1,000newborn babies are deaf, and when we reach 80,over half of us will also have a hearing problem.Again, there&#39;s many underlying genetic causes for this.So what we&#39;ve been doing in my labis looking at these unique sensory specialists, the bats,and we have looked at genes that cause blindnesswhen there&#39;s a defect in them,genes that cause deafness when there&#39;s a defect in them,and now we can predict which sites are most likely to cause disease.So bats are also important for our health,to enable us to better understand how our genome functions.
时间：12:20
zh-cn:我们现在正致力于此，那么未来又如何呢？长寿这个问题呢？我们未来朝着这个方向，就像我之前所说的，我真的相信长生不老的秘密就藏在蝙蝠的基因组里面。我们为什么要对老化问题感兴趣呢？这是一幅十五世纪的图。画中是不老泉。老化被认为最熟悉，但却是了解最少的一个生物领域之一。自文明之初，人类就已经开始避免它。但我们要更好地认识它。光在欧洲，到了2050年，年龄超过65岁的人数将有70%的增长，年龄超过80岁的有170%的增长。随着我们老化，我们会退化，而这些退化会给我们的社会带来问题，所以我们要处理它。
en:So this is where we are right now,but what about the future?What about longevity?This is where we&#39;re going to go, and as I said before,I really believe that the secret of everlasting youthlies within the bat genome.So why should we be interested in aging at all?Well, really, this is a picture drawn from the 1500sof the Fountain of Youth. Aging is consideredone of the most familiar, yet the least well-understood,aspects of all of biology, and really,since the dawn of civilization, mankind has sought to avoid it.But we are going to have to understand it a bit better.In Europe alone, by 2050, there is going to bea 70 percent increase of individuals over 65,and 170 percent increase in individuals over 80.As we age, we deteriorate, and this deteriorationcauses problems for our society, so we have to address it.
时间：13:18
zh-cn:长生不老的秘密怎么会在蝙蝠的基因组里？有人想猜猜蝙蝠可以活多长时间？谁，举起你们的手，谁认为是两年？没有人？一个？10年呢？有一些？30年呢？40年呢？好，各种想法都有。这只是布氏鼠耳蝠，是寿命最长的蝙蝠。它已经活了长达42年，它至今依然在野外生存着。但这有什么惊人之处吗？
en:So how could the secret of everlasting youth actually liewithin the bat genome? Does anybody want to hazarda guess over how long this bat could live for?Who — put up your hands — who says two years?Nobody? One? How about 10 years?Some? How about 30?How about 40? Okay, it&#39;s a whole varied response.This bat is myotis brandtii. It&#39;s the longest-living bat.It lived for up to 42 years,and this bat&#39;s still alive in the wild today.But what would be so amazing about this?
时间：13:54
zh-cn:通常，哺乳动物中体型大小，代谢率和存活寿命有关系，你可以通过哺乳动物的体型来预测它的寿命。所以通常，小型哺乳动物繁衍得快死得也早。比方说老鼠。但蝙蝠很不一样。正如你看到这个图，蓝色的这些是其它哺乳动物，但是蝙蝠却能比预期寿命存活九倍多久。尽管它们的代谢率非常非常高，问题是它们是怎么做到的？考虑到它们的体型，有19种哺乳动物的寿命比预期的长，比人类的寿命要长其中有18种是蝙蝠。所以他们的DNA里面一定有某种东西，能让它们处理代谢的压力。尤其是飞行引起的代谢压力。较那些同等大小的哺乳动物而言，飞行需要三倍有多的能量，但蝙蝠似乎没有受到飞行的影响。所以现在我的实验室正结合先进的蝙蝠生物科学，到外面捕捉长寿的蝙蝠，利用最先进的现代分子技术来更好地了解它们是怎么停止像我们那样老化的。希望未来的5年里，我可以就此在TED给你们演讲。老化是人类面临的一个很严峻问题，我相信通过研究蝙蝠，我们可以揭示使哺乳动物能够更加长寿的分子机制。如果我们弄清楚它们是如何做到的，也许通过基因治疗，我们也能做到同样的事。很有可能，这意味着我们可以延缓老化或者甚至可以将之逆转。想象一下那将会是什么样子。
en:Well, typically, in mammals there is a relationshipbetween body size, metabolic rate,and how long you can live for, and you can predicthow long a mammal can live for given its body size.So typically, small mammals live fast, die young.Think of a mouse. But bats are very different.As you can see here on this graph, in blue,these are all other mammals, but batscan live up to nine times longer than expecteddespite having a really, really high metabolic rate,and the question is, how can they do that?There are 19 species of mammal that live longerthan expected, given their body size, than man,and 18 of those are bats.So therefore, they must have something within their DNAthat ables them to deal with the metabolic stresses,particularly of flight. They expend three times more energythan a mammal of the same size,but don&#39;t seem to suffer the consequences or the effects.So right now, in my lab, we&#39;re combiningstate-of-the-art bat field biology, going out and catchingthe long-lived bats, with the most up-to-date,modern molecular technology to understand betterwhat it is that they do to stop aging as we do.And hopefully in the next five years, I&#39;ll be giving you a TEDTalk on that.Aging is a big problem for humanity,and I believe that by studying bats, we can uncoverthe molecular mechanisms that enable mammalsto achieve extraordinary longevity. If we find outwhat they&#39;re doing, perhaps through gene therapy,we can enable us to do the same thing.Potentially, this means that we could halt aging or maybe even reverse it.Just imagine what that would be like.
时间：15:42
zh-cn:所以，我认为我们不该把蝙蝠看作夜间会飞的恶魔，而应该视为我们的超级英雄。事实上如果我们正确看待它们，蝙蝠可以带给我们非常多的好处。它们有利于我们的生态系统。它们让我们明白基因是如和发挥作用的。它们很可能掌握长生不老的秘密。所以，今晚，当你们离开这里抬头望向夜空的时候，你们看到这种美丽的飞行着的哺乳动物时，我希望你们可以抱以微笑。谢谢。（掌声）
en:So really, I don&#39;t think we should be thinking of themas flying demons of the night, but more as our superheroes.And the reality is that bats can bring us so much benefitif we just look in the right place. They&#39;re good for our ecosystem,they allow us to understand how our genome functions,and they potentially hold the secret to everlasting youth.So tonight, when you walk out of here and you look upin the night skies, and you see this beautiful flying mammal,I want you to smile. Thank you. (Applause)
