时间： 0:15
zh-cn:今天我要讲两件事情第一是我们已经失去的东西第二是如何把它找回来我先从这开始这是我思想的出发点这是地中海的海岸没有鱼，石头光秃秃的还有许多海胆，以藻类为食当我第一次潜水的时候首先看到的就是这些东西那是在地中海的西班牙沿岸现在，如果有个外星人来了地球我们给它起名叫乔他会看到什么？如果乔跳进一个珊瑚礁这位外星人可能见到很多不同的东西很不可能的是乔跳进了一片原始珊瑚礁或者说一片“处女”珊瑚礁，那里有很多珊瑚、鲨鱼、鳄鱼海牛、石斑鱼海龟什么的所以，乔会看到的东西可能就在图上绿色的部分这里是最坏的地方，到处是死珊瑚微生物和水母这个画着潜水员的地方也许是世界上大多数珊瑚礁现在的状况这些地方珊瑚很少，而藻类的数量超过珊瑚还有很多细菌大型动物都不见了这是大多数的海洋科学家都见过的情况这是他们的出发点，他们认为这一情形很正常因为我们借助潜水工具开始现代海洋科学研究已经是海洋生态系统开始退化之后很久的事情
en:I&#39;m going to tell you two things today:One is what we have lost,and two, a way to bring it back.And let me start with this.This is my baseline:This is the Mediterranean coastwith no fish, bare rockand lots of sea urchins that like to eat the algae.Something like this is what I first sawwhen I jumped in the water for the first timein the Mediterranean coast off Spain.Now, if an alien came to earth —let&#39;s call him Joe —what would Joe see?If Joe jumped in a coral reef,there are many things the alien could see.Very unlikely, Joe would jumpon a pristine coral reef,a virgin coral reef with lots of coral, sharks, crocodiles,manatees, groupers,turtles, etc.So, probably, what Joe would seewould be in this part, in the greenish part of the picture.Here we have the extreme with dead corals,microbial soup and jellyfish.And where the diver is,this is probably where most of the reefs of the world are now,with very few corals, algae overgrowing the corals,lots of bacteria,and where the large animals are gone.And this is what most marine scientists have seen too.This is their baseline. This is what they think is naturalbecause we started modern sciencewith scuba diving long afterwe started degrading marine ecosystems.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:所以我要带大家坐上时间机器去图左边那样的地方，回到过去的世界去看看海洋曾经的面貌让我们开动的时间机器吧。第一站是列岛群岛 (夏威夷附近）在这儿，国家地理杂志已经进行了一系列考察这片属于基里巴斯的群岛横跨赤道其中有一些岛屿无人居住也没人捕鱼，处于原始状态另一些岛上则有人首先，第一个要介绍的是圣诞节岛，居民超过五千人这里大多数的珊瑚礁都死掉了大多数珊瑚在藻类的排挤下都死了而大多数鱼类比那些我们用来给鱼计数的铅笔还要小2005年我们在那里潜水了250小时。连一只鲨鱼也没见到1777年库克船长就发现了这个地方他描述有一大群鲨鱼在他们靠岸的时候撕咬着他们小船的舵和桨
en:So I&#39;m going to get us all on a time machine,and we&#39;re going to the left; we&#39;re going to go back to the pastto see what the ocean was like.And let&#39;s start with this time machine, the Line Islands,where we have conducted a seriesof National Geographic expeditions.This sea is an archipelago belonging to Kiribatithat spans across the equatorand it has several uninhabited,unfished, pristine islandsand a few inhabited islands.So let&#39;s start with the first one: Christmas Island, over 5,000 people.Most of the reefs are dead,most of the corals are dead — overgrown by algae —and most of the fish are smaller thanthe pencils we use to count them.We did 250 hours of diving herein 2005.We didn&#39;t see a single shark.This is the place that Captain Cook discovered in 1777and he described a huge abundance of sharksbiting the rudders and the oars of their small boatswhile they were going ashore.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:我们再把时间机器的表盘向过去拨一点点范宁岛，居民2500人这里珊瑚的情况要好一些，有很多小型鱼类按现在的标准，很多潜水者都会把这里看成天堂这样的景象你可以在佛罗里达群岛海洋保护区的大部分地方见到很多人都觉得这里真的，真的很美如果这是你的出发点那我们再回去看另一个地方巴尔米拉岛环礁几年前我在那儿和杰里米 杰克逊 一起工作那里的珊瑚的情况很好，还有鲨鱼每次潜水都能看见鲨鱼这在今天的珊瑚礁就很难见到了不过，如果我们回到200或500年前那我们就会看见极其健康而美丽的珊瑚形成了壮观的建筑食肉动物是这里最显眼的东西每次在这里潜水都能看到25到50只鲨鱼
en:Let&#39;s move the dial a little bit to the past.Fanning Island, 2,500 people.The corals are doing better here. Lots of small fish.This is what many divers would consider paradise.This is where you can see mostof the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary.And many people think this is really, really beautiful,if this is your baseline.If we go back to a placelike Palmyra Atoll,where I was with Jeremy Jackson a few years ago,the corals are doing better and there are sharks.You can see sharks in every single dive.And this is something that is very unusual in today&#39;s coral reefs.But then, if we shift the dial200, 500 years back,then we get to the places where the coralsare absolutely healthy and gorgeous,forming spectacular structures,and where the predatorsare the most conspicuous thing,where you see between 25 and 50 sharks per dive.
时间： 3:30
zh-cn:我们从这样的地方学到了什么？这些是我们认为很正常的东西这是生物量金字塔如果我们把一片珊瑚礁中的所有鱼类进行称重我门会预料到以下的结果大部分生物量都处在食物链的低端，即植食性鱼类包括鹦嘴鱼，吃藻类的鲟鱼接下来是以浮游生物为食的鱼，比如小雀鲷一种在水里飘来飘去的小动物接下来食肉类的生物量要少一些数量更少的是食物链顶端的生物如鲨鱼、鲷鱼、大石斑鱼但是这只是一种研究结论这种观点来源于对退化的珊瑚礁进行研究的结果
en:What have we learned from these places?This is what we thought was natural.This is what we call the biomass pyramid.If we get all of the fish of a coral reef together and weigh them,this is what we would expect.Most of the biomass is low on the food chain, the herbivores,the parrotfish, the surgeonfish that eat the algae.Then the plankton feeders, these little damselfish,the little animals floating in the water.And then we have a lower biomass of carnivores,and a lower biomass of top head,or the sharks, the large snappers, the large groupers.But this is a consequence.This view of the world is a consequenceof having studied degraded reefs.
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:如果我们去看看原始的珊瑚礁我们就会意识到自然世界其实正好相反生物量金字塔倒过来了顶端的生物占据了大部分生物量在某些地方，可达百分之85比如目前已经得到保护的金曼珊瑚礁好消息是，除了食肉类动物的数量多了这里的每一样东西都多了金字塔的每一层的面积更大更多的鲨鱼，更多鲷鱼植食性鱼类的生物量也更多比如这只鹦嘴鱼，好像海里的山羊他们吃掉所有长得大到可以看见的东西让珊瑚礁变干净并且让珊瑚更好的繁殖这些古老、原始的地方不仅有很多鱼而且还有其他生态系统中重要的组成部分比如大蛤环礁湖中大蛤聚集生长每平方米最多可以有20、25个这些已经从所有有人居住的珊瑚礁中消失了它们可以过滤水体去掉水中的微生物和病原体
en:When we went to pristine reefs,we realized that the natural worldwas upside down;this pyramid was inverted.The top head does account for most of the biomass,in some places up to 85 percent,like Kingman Reef, which is now protected.The good news is that, in addition to having more predators,there&#39;s more of everything.The size of these boxes is bigger.We have more sharks, more biomass of snappers,more biomass of herbivores, too,like these parrot fish that are like marine goats.They clean the reef; everything that grows enough to be seen,they eat, and they keep the reef cleanand allow the corals to replenish.Not only do these places —these ancient, pristine places — have lots of fish,but they also have other important componentsof the ecosystem like the giant clams;pavements of giant clams in the lagoons,up to 20, 25 per square meter.These have disappeared from every inhabited reef in the world,and they filter the water;they keep the water clean frommicrobes and pathogens.
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:但是，由于现在全球变暖（影响了这些生物的生存）如果我们因为这些珊瑚礁受法律保护，或者离我们距离太远，而不在这里捕鱼，那么情况会好得多。但是（你会问），水体变暖持续了太长时间使珊瑚死掉那么有这些鱼这些食肉动物们能有什么帮助呢？我们已经知道在这个地区在97、98年的厄尔尼诺期海水过热持续的时间过长很多珊瑚失去了颜色并且死亡在圣诞节岛，食物链被剪短大的动物都不见了这里的珊瑚至今还没有恢复过来。在方宁岛，珊瑚也还没有恢复。但是，你可以注意到一个圆桌状的大珊瑚死掉而且倒下了鱼儿们已经吃掉了一些海藻所以这里的海藻没有长得这么高接着让我们来到巴尔米拉岛环礁这里有更多的食肉动物这里的珊瑚是干净的珊瑚已经恢复过来了让我们再看保持原始状态的一边这里褪色过吗？这里的珊瑚也褪色过。但是它们恢复得快一些越原始的地方，恢复得越快。食物链越复杂生态环境越有抵抗力也越可能从短期的变暖变化中恢复。这是个好消息。所以我们应该恢复这样的结构我们需要保证生态系统的各个部分都健全这样生态系统才能适应全球变暖
en:But still, now we have global warming.If we don&#39;t have fishing because these reefs are protected by lawor their remoteness, this is great.But the water gets warmer for too longand the corals die.So how are these fish,these predators going to help?Well, what we have seen is thatin this particular areaduring El Nino, year &#39;97, &#39;98,the water was too warm for too long,and many corals bleachedand many died.In Christmas, where the food web is really trimmed down,where the large animals are gone,the corals have not recovered.In Fanning Island, the corals are not recovered.But you see herea big table coral that died and collapsed.And the fish have grazed the algae,so the turf of algae is a little lower.Then you go to Palmyra Atollthat has more biomass of herbivores,and the dead corals are clean,and the corals are coming back.And when you go to the pristine side,did this ever bleach?These places bleached too, but they recovered faster.The more intact, the more complete,[and] the more complex your food web,the higher the resilience, [and] the more likelythat the system is going to recoverfrom the short-term impacts of warming events.And that&#39;s good news, so we need to recover that structure.We need to make sure that all of the pieces of the ecosystem are thereso the ecosystem can adaptto the effects of global warming.
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:所以如果我们要重设基准线要把生态环境推回左边去的话我们该怎么做呢？有几种方法一种很明显的办法是设立海洋保护区特别是“非捕鱼”区。这样可以让海洋生物恢复过来让我们回到地中海的画面这是我的基准线。这是我还是小孩时看到的。同时我在看雅克 · 库斯托的电视节目电视中显示如此丰富，多样的生物我以为这样的丰富性只能在热带海区才能有地中海不是这么一个地方但是直到我第一次跳进一个海洋保护区之前我都不知道我错了我看见很多的鱼
en:So if we have to reset the baseline,if we have to push the ecosystem back to the left,how can we do it?Well, there are several ways.One very clear way is the marine protected areas,especially no-take reservesthat we set asideto allow for the recovery for marine life.And let me go back to that imageof the Mediterranean.This was my baseline. This is what I saw when I was a kid.And at the same time I was watchingJacques Cousteau&#39;s shows on TV,with all this richness and abundance and diversity.And I thought that this richnessbelonged to tropical seas,and that the Mediterranean was a naturally poor sea.But, little did I know,until I jumped for the first time in a marine reserve.And this is what I saw, lots of fish.
时间： 7:23
zh-cn:五到七年之间鱼回来了。它们吃海胆海藻又长出来了在一个小小的笔记本电脑大小的区域你能发现一百多种藻类植物大都是微小的植物成百条鱼和吃鱼的小动物生态系统就这样恢复了这个保护区只有94公顷但是它给本地带来了6百万欧元的价值是捕鱼价值的20倍这是百分之88的旅游收入这些地方不仅有助于生态环境也有益于民。
en:After a few years, between five and seven years,fish come back, they eat the urchins,and then the algae grow again.So you have this little algal forest,and in the size of a laptopyou can find more than 100 species of algae,mostly microscopic fithundreds of species of little animalsthat then feed the fish,so that the system recovers.And this particular place, the Medes Islands Marine Reserve,is only 94 hectares,and it brings 6 million euros to the local economy,20 times more than fishing,and it represents 88 percentof all the tourist revenue.So these places not only help the ecosystembut also help the peoplewho can benefit from the ecosystem.
时间： 8:06
zh-cn:让我总结一下“禁捕”保护区的益处。与附近没有保护的区域比较，受保护的地区物种增加百分之21如果这里有1000种生物你可以预计在保护区里有额外200种生物这是很大的不同生物的大小增加三分之一所以你的鱼现在有这么大每平方米的鱼数量增加近 170 ％。生物量 增加4.5倍这-是最大的变化平均而言，变化只需要5至7年在保护区的有些地方，生物量增加高达10倍
en:So let me just give you a summaryof what no-take reserves do.These places, when we protect them,if we compare them to unprotected areas nearby, this is what happens.The number of species increases 21 percent;so if you have 1,000 speciesyou would expect 200 more in a marine reserve.This is very substantial.The size of organisms increases a third,so your fish are now this big.The abundance, how many fish you have per square meter,increases almost 170 percent.And the biomass — this is the most spectacular change —4.5 times greater biomasson average, just after five to seven years.In some places up to 10 timeslarger biomass inside the reserves.
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:保护区里有这么多的东西都在增加它们都干什么呢？他们繁殖。这是基本生物学。如果你不杀鱼,它们会活得更久他们变得越来越大，而且繁殖很快无脊椎动物也是一样。举个例子。这是些在智利海岸的蜗牛产的蛋这是在保护区之外蛋的数量。少到你都检测不到在保护区里面有很多蜗牛。它们产了每平方米130万个蛋这些生物繁殖开来小幼虫游到保护区外它们都会到外面去保护区外的人也因此受益这是在巴哈马拿骚石斑鱼。保护区内有非常多的石斑鱼而且越接近保护区鱼越多因此，渔民捕获更多。你可以根据船在那里看出保护区的边界在哪里。保护区给周边的人们提供了各种好处同时保护区保护了整个栖息地. 提高了它的抵抗力
en:So we have all these thingsinside the reserve that grow, and what do they do?They reproduce. That&#39;s population biology 101.If you don&#39;t kill the fish, they take a longer time to die,they grow larger and they reproduce a lot.And same thing for invertebrates. This is the example.These are egg caseslaid by a snail off the coast of Chile,and this is how many eggs they lay on the bottom.Outside the reserve,you cannot even detect this.One point three million eggs per square meterinside the marine reserve where these snails are very abundant.So these organisms reproduce,the little larvae juveniles spill over,they all spill over,and then people can benefit from them outside too.This is in the Bahamas: Nassau grouper.Huge abundance of groupers inside the reserve,and the closer you get to the reserve,the more fish you have.So the fishermen are catching more.You can see where the limits of the reserve arebecause you see the boats lined up.So there is spill over;there are benefits beyond the boundaries of these reservesthat help people around them,while at the same timethe reserve is protectingthe entire habitat. It is building resilience.
时间： 9:57
zh-cn:我们现在没有保护区的世界像是一个转帐帐户只取不存保护区像储蓄账户我们不动本金本金产生社会，经济和生态的效益保护区里的生物量的增加就好象利滚利再举两个保护区如何让人受益的例子这是肯尼亚捕鱼人几年来一天的收入在没有保护的地方大家都不择手段，能捞多少捞多少一旦最有破坏力的渔具大围网，被废弃后渔民们抓到了更多的鱼如果你捕的次数越少，你实际上捕获更多。如果你再加上一个保护区渔民们可以通过在保护区周围打渔而收入更多
en:So what we have now —or a world without reserves —is like a debit accountwhere we withdraw all the timeand we never make any deposit.Reserves are like savings accounts.We have this principal that we don&#39;t touch;that produces returns,social, economic and ecological.And if we think about the increase of biomass inside the reserves,this is like compound interest.Two examples, again,of how these reserves can benefit people.This is how much fishermen geteveryday in Kenya, fishingover a series of years,in a place wherethere is no protection; it&#39;s a free-for-all.Once the most degrading fishing gear,seine nets, were removed,the fishermen were catching more.If you fish less, you&#39;re actually catching more.But if we add the no-take reserve on top of that,the fishermen are still making more moneyby fishing less around an area that is protected.
时间：10:56
zh-cn:另一个例子是关于伯利兹Mesoamerican珊瑚礁拿骚石斑鱼™这是石斑鱼在交配它们在十二月和一月月圆的时候聚集在一起一 个星期以前多达几万，30000 条这么大的石斑鱼一次聚在一公顷的地方渔民知道这些。他们把鱼一网打尽。在2000年我第一次到那的时候只有3000之石斑鱼剩下了政府允许渔民们每年捕捉整个产卵鱼群的百份３０.做个简单的计算你不需要是个高深的科学家就能预计如果你每年捕30%的话整个鱼群会很快灭绝整个物种的繁殖能力也会跟着灭绝这种事在很多加勒比海的地方都发生过整个几艘船的船队一整年只能挣4000美元。现在，如果你做个经济分析预测如果鱼群没有被破坏如果我们每年每月只吸引20个潜水游客旅游利润将会是现在的20倍而且这是可以持续的
en:Another example:Nassau groupers in Belize in the Mesoamerican Reef.This is grouper sex,and the groupers aggregate around the full moonsof December and January for a week.They used to aggregate up to thetens of thousands, 30,000 groupers about this bigin one hectare, in one aggregation.Fishermen knew about these things; they caught them, and they depleted them.When I went there for the first time in 2000,there were only 3,000 groupers left.And the fishermen were authorized to catch 30 percentof the entire spawning population every year.So we did a simple analysis,and it doesn&#39;t take rocket scienceto figure out that, if you take 30 percent every year,your fishery is going to collapse very quickly.And with the fishery, the entire reproductive abilityof the species goes extinct.It happened in many places around the Caribbean.And they would make 4,000 dollars per year,total, for the entire fishery,several fishing boats.Now, if you do an economic analysisand project what would happenif the fish were not cut,if we brought just 20 diversone month per year,the revenue would be more than 20 times higherand that would be sustainable over time.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:那我们现在有多少保护区呢？如果保护区是这么显而易见得好，我们现在有多少呢？你们已经听说了少于1%的海洋现在受到保护多亏了对查戈斯群岛的保护这个比例正接近1%而且其中只有一小部分完全禁捕科学研究建议至少20%的海洋该被保护起来如果想要达到增强生物多样性鱼的数量和对环境变化的抵抗力估计要保护的面积要在20%到50%之间
en:So how much of this do we have?If this is so good, if this is such a no-brainer, how much of this do we have?And you already heard thatless than one percent of the ocean&#39;s protected.We&#39;re getting closer to one percent now,thanks to the protections of the Chagos Archipelago,and only a fraction of this is fully protected from fishing.Scientific studies recommend that at least 20 percentof the ocean should be protected.The estimated range is between 20 and 50 percentfor a series of goals of biodiversityand fishery enhancement and resilience.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:这可能吗？人们会问：这要花多少钱啊？好，让我们想想我们现在花多少钱补助捕鱼业一年350亿美元很多补助被用于破坏性的捕鱼行为如果我们要建立一个20%海洋区域的保护区网络。按现在的几个估计费用只会是现在政府给捕鱼业的补助的一小部分这样的补助还是不能挽救捕鱼业人们在失去工作因为鱼群正在快速消失建立保护区网络将会直接雇佣多于一百万的人而且间接提供工作和许多其他间接好处
en:Now, is this possible? People would ask: How much would that cost?Well, let&#39;s think abouthow much we are paying nowto subsidize fishing:35 billion dollars per year.Many of these subsidies go to destructive fishing practices.Well, there are a couple estimatesof how much it would cost to createa network of protected areascovering 20 percent of the oceanthat would be only a fractionof what we are now paying;the government hands out to a fisherythat is collapsing.People are losing their jobs because the fisheries are collapsing.A creation of a network of reserveswould provide direct employment for more than a million peopleplus all the secondary jobs and all the secondary benefits.
时间：13:20
zh-cn:那我们该怎么做呢？如果这些“储蓄帐号”对环境和人这么好为什么我们至今还没有保护到20%到50%的海洋面积呢？我们怎么才能达到这个目标呢？有两种方法简单的是建立巨大的保护区象查戈斯群岛保护区问题是我们只能在没有人居住，没有环境和人类冲突，政治，经济代价很低的地方建立这样的大保护区我们在座的和在其他地方的一些人和组织正在做这件事
en:So how can we do that?If it&#39;s so clear that these savings accountsare good for the environment and for people,why don&#39;t we have 20, 50 percent of the ocean?And how can we reach that goal?Well, there are two ways of getting there.The trivial solution is to create really large protected areaslike the Chagos Archipelago.The problem is that we can create these large reservesonly in places where there are no people, where there is no social conflict,where the political cost is really lowand the economic cost is also low.And a few of us, a few organizations in this room and elsewhereare working on this.
时间：13:58
zh-cn:但是其他有人居住捕鱼的沿海地方怎么办呢？我们没有数以万计的小保护区有三个主要原因第一是人们不知道海洋保护区做什么渔民们往往是很抵触限制或关闭捕鱼海域即使是一个很小的区域其次，管理方式也不对因为全球绝大多数的海边社区没有权力去监测资源，建立保护区并执行有效的保护这是个从上至下的组织结构人们等着政府人员来做这是不是有效的方法。政府没有足够的资源。
en:But what about the rest of the coast of the world,where people live and make a living out of fishing?Well, there are three main reasons whywe don&#39;t have tens of thousands of small reserves:The first one is that people have no ideawhat marine reserves do,and fishermen tend to be really, really defensivewhen it comes to regulating or closingan area, even if it&#39;s small.Second, the governance is not rightbecause most coastal communities around the worlddon&#39;t have the authorityto monitor the resources to create the reserve and enforce it.It&#39;s a top down hierarchical structurewhere people wait forgovernment agents to comeand this is not effective. And the government doesn&#39;t have enough resources.
时间：14:39
zh-cn:最后第三个我们没有更多保护区的原因是我们的融资方法不对非政府组织和政府通常花很多钱，精力和资源在很少的几个地区因此，海洋和沿海保护已成为政府或慈善机构的烧钱机器这是不可能长久的所以解决这三个问题的办法是：首先，，我们需要展开一个全球性的教育宣传来激励当地社区和政府建立比现在好的保护区这是储蓄帐户不是没有存款的转帐帐户其次，我们需要重新设计我们的管理方式从而保护工作可以被分工合作保护工作从此不再依赖于非政府机构或者政府地方社区就可以建立保护机制就像是在菲律宾和其他地方发生例子一样第三，非常重要的是我们需要开发新的商业模式依靠慈善捐助来维持保护区的方法是没法永久维持的我们真的需要发展基于海洋环保为投资的商业模式因为我们已经知道这些海洋保护区提供社会，生态和经济效益
en:Which takes us to the third reason,why we don&#39;t have many more reserves,is that the funding models have been wrong.NGOs and governmentsspend a lot of time and energy and resourcesin a few small areas, usually.So marine conservation and coastal protectionhas become a sink for government or philanthropic money,and this is not sustainable.So the solutions are justfixing these three issues.First, we need to develop a global awareness campaignto inspire local communities and governmentsto create no-take reservesthat are better than what we have now.It&#39;s the savings accountsversus the debit accounts with no deposits.Second, we need to redesign our governanceso conservation efforts can be decentralized,so conservation efforts don&#39;t depend onwork from NGOsor from government agenciesand can be created by the local communities,like it happens in the Philippines and a few other places.And third, and very important,we need to develop new business models.The philanthropy sink as the only way to create reservesis not sustainable.We really need to develop models, business models,where coastal conservationis an investment,because we already knowthat these marine reserves providesocial, ecological and economic benefits.
时间：16:03
zh-cn:最后我想以以下的一点结束我的演讲没有一个组织可以独立地拯救海洋过去有许多组织互相竞争我们需要建立一个新的基于真诚合作的模式互补而不是互相取代我们不能再继续我们现在的方法了因为我们失败的代价实在是太高了因此让我么大家行动起来吧。非常感谢
en:And I&#39;d like to finish with one thought,which is that no oneorganization aloneis going to save the ocean.There has been a lot of competition in the past,and we need to developa new model of partnership,truly collaborative,where we are looking for complementing,not substituting.The stakes are just too highto continue the way we are going.So let&#39;s do that. Thank you very much.
时间：16:31
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：16:39
zh-cn:克里斯安德森 （主持人）：谢谢你安瑞科。
en:Chris Anderson: Thank you Enric.
时间：16:41
zh-cn:安瑞科萨拉：谢谢你。©
en:Enric Sala: Thank you.
时间：16:44
zh-cn:主持人： 能把这么复杂的事讲得头头是道真不简单首先，你的金字塔，你的倒金字塔理论，显示食肉动物占85%的生物量这似乎是不可能的85%的生物量怎么可能靠15% 的生物量存活呢？
en:CA: That was a masterful jobof pulling things together.First of all, your pyramid, your inverted pyramid,showing 85 percent biomass in the predators,that seems impossible.How could 85 percentsurvive on 15 percent?
时间：17:00
zh-cn:安瑞科：嗯，想象一下你有两个齿轮一个大一个小大的那个转得很慢，小的则转得飞快基本上就是这个道理在食品链下游的动物繁殖得很快，长大也非常快，他们产的蛋以数百万计。上面，鲨鱼和大的鱼可以活25，30年它们繁殖很慢。新陈代谢也很慢基本上，它们只是维持它们的生物量所以，基本上，下面这些生物生产的盈余就足够维持这些生长缓慢的生物它们就像该系统的电容
en:ES: Well, imagine that you have two gearsof a watch, a big one and a small one.The big one is moving very slowly, and the small one is moving fast.That&#39;s basically it.The animals at the lower parts of the food chain,they reproduce very fast; they grow really fast; they produce millions of eggs.Up there, you have sharks and large fish that live 25, 30 years.They reproduce very slowly; they have a slow metabolism;and, basically, they just maintain their biomass.So, basically, the production surplus of these guys down thereis enough to maintain this biomassthat is not moving.They are like capacitors of the system.
时间：17:34
zh-cn:主持人：真神奇啊！我们真的要完全改变我们现在食物金字塔的概念
en:CA: That&#39;s very fascinating.So, really, our picture of a food pyramidis just — we have to change that completely.
时间：17:40
zh-cn:安瑞科：至少在海里是这样。我们发现在珊瑚礁倒金字塔模型就像是非洲塞伦盖蒂草原一条羚羊养五条狮子一样在陆地上，这是行不通的但至少对底层有这种结构的珊瑚礁系统而言我们认为这是很普遍的但是，我们也只是最近才开始研究原始珊瑚礁
en:ES: At least in the seas.What we found in coral reefs is that the inverted pyramidis the equivalent of the Serengeti,with five lions per wildebeest.And on land, this cannot work.But at least on coral reefs are systemswhere there is a bottom component with structure.We think this is universal.But we have started studying pristine reefsonly very recently.
时间：18:02
zh-cn:主持人：您提出的数字确实很惊人你说我们花350亿美元用于补助而设立20%海洋的保护区只要花160亿美元而且这些保护区可以给渔民们新的生活方式选择如果这个世界是个聪明点的地方我们可以少花190亿美元解决这个问题。我们光在医疗上已花费了190亿美元
en:CA: So the numbers you presented really are astonishing.You&#39;re saying we&#39;re spending 35 billion dollarsnow on subsidies.It would only cost 16 billion to set up20 percent of the ocean asmarine protected areasthat actually give new living choicesto the fishermen as well.If the world was a smarter place,we could solve this problem for negative 19 billion dollars.We&#39;ve got 19 billion to spend on health care or something.
时间：18:27
zh-cn:安瑞科：这还不包括增加的500亿美元的鱼业收入所以，最好的解决办法之一就是让世界贸易组织把现有的补贴转移到可以持久的做法上去
en:ES: And then we have the under-performance of fisheriesthat is 50 billion dollars.So again, one of the big solutions ishave the World Trade Organization shifting the subsidiesto sustainable practices.
时间：18:40
zh-cn:主持人：好。我今天听到了很多有关结束这场疯狂的补贴列子谢谢你提供了这些数字。最后一个是一个个人的问题在座的很多人都在海洋中泡过很长一段时间他们看到曾经美丽的地方环境一天天恶化令人非常沮丧能不能讲一讲你看到原始海域看到美好的东西回来的感受？
en:CA: Okay, so there&#39;s a lot of examples that I&#39;m hearing out thereabout ending this subsidies madness.So thank you for those numbers.The last one&#39;s a personal question.A lot of the experience of people herewho&#39;ve been in the oceans for a long timehas just been seeing this degradation, the places they saw that were beautifulgetting worse, depressing.Talk to me about the feeling that you must have experiencedof going to these pristine areasand seeing things coming back.
时间：19:05
zh-cn:安瑞科： 这是一种精神体验我们去那里尝试了解生态系统尝试测量鱼和鲨鱼的数量看看这些地方是如何与我们知道的地方有什么不同E.O.威尔逊的这么一段描述最能表达我的感受人类在未被该变的大自然之前会感觉到一种敬畏和惊奇的感觉而且，只有在那里你真的觉得你是一个一个更大的全球生态系统的一部分如果不是这些带给人希望地方我会因为太沮丧而不能继续做我现在的工作
en:ES: It is a spiritual experience.We go there to try to understand the ecosystems,to try to measure or count fish and sharksand see how these places are different from the places we know.But the best feelingis this biophilia that E.O. Wilson talks about,where humans have this sense of awe and wonderin front of untamed nature, of raw nature.And there, only there,you really feel that you are part of a larger thingor of a larger global ecosystem.And if it were not for these places that show hope,I don&#39;t think I could continue doing this job.It would be just too depressing.
时间：19:42
zh-cn:主持人:安瑞科，非常感谢你与我们分享你的精神体验
en:CA: Well, Enric, thank you so much for sharingsome of that spiritual experience with us all. Thank you.
时间：19:46
zh-cn:安瑞科：非常感谢
en:ES: Thank you very much.
