时间： 0:15
zh-cn:事物的本质是不可见的，城市的往昔和未来也是如此。在牛津，我们或许从刘易斯·卡洛尔的著作，从纽约市这面镜子里，试图寻见真我；或者进入另一个世界。或者，正如F·斯科特菲茨杰拉德所写：“每当明月升高，微不足道的房屋开始消逝，直到我逐渐意识到这座古老岛屿，曾是荷兰水手眼中繁花盛开之地，新世界中一处翠绿的处女地。”
en:The substance of things unseen.Cities, past and future.In Oxford, perhapswe can use Lewis Carrolland look in the looking glassthat is New York Cityto try and see our true selves,or perhaps pass through to another world.Or, in the words of F. Scott Fitzgerald,&quot;As the moon rose higher,the inessential houses began to melt awayuntil gradually I becameaware of the old islandhere that once floweredfor Dutch sailors&#39; eyes,a fresh green breast of the new world.&quot;
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:我和我的同事用了十年时间重新探索这个失落的世界，并将其命名为“曼娜哈特”(曼哈顿的印第安语)计划。我们试图探索亨利‧哈德逊船长在1609年9月12日的下午航行至纽约港时所见的一切。而我想把这个故事分成三段讲，如果时间允许的话，我也想再做一个总结。
en:My colleagues and Ihave been working for 10 yearsto rediscover this lost worldin a project we callThe Mannahatta Project.We&#39;re trying to discoverwhat Henry Hudson would have seenon the afternoon of September 12th, 1609,when he sailed into New York harbor.And I&#39;d like to tell youthe story in three acts,and if I have time still, an epilogue.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:那么，第一部分：一张地图的发现。是的，我并不在纽约长大。正如你们看到的照片，我在西瓦内华达山区红岩峡谷长大。由于我儿时的经历，我渐渐地爱上了自然景观。所以，当我要着手我的研究生课程时，我学习了景观生态学—这门新兴领域的研究。景观生态学关注诸如河流、草地、森林和悬崖是怎样为动植物提供栖息地的问题。而这份经历和学术培训，使我获得了与野生动物保护协会共事的绝佳机会，这份工作致力于拯救世界各地的野生动物和野生地区生态。在过去的10年中，我前往四十多个国家，观察那里的美洲虎、熊、大象，以及老虎和犀牛。
en:So, Act I: A Map Found.So, I didn&#39;t grow up in New York.I grew up out west in theSierra Nevada Mountains, like you see here,in the Red Rock Canyon.And from these earlyexperiences as a childI learned to love landscapes.And so when it became timefor me to do my graduate studies,I studied this emerging fieldof landscape ecology.Landscape ecology concerns itselfwith how the stream and the meadowand the forest and the cliffsmake habitats for plants and animals.This experience and this traininglead me to get a wonderful jobwith the Wildlife Conservation Society,which works to save wildlifeand wild places all over the world.And over the last decade,I traveled to over 40 countriesto see jaguars and bears and elephantsand tigers and rhinos.
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:但是每一次我旅途回来，到纽约市。在周末，我就会像所有的游客一样，爬到帝国大厦的顶楼。我也会向下俯瞰这里的风景和生态系统，于是我便疑惑：“这里的景观是怎样为动植物提供居住场所的?它又是怎样为像我这样的动物提供居住地的呢？”我也会去时代广场，看一看那墙上美丽的女士们，然后疑惑：为什么没有人关注她们过去的祖辈？我也到中央公园去，看着中央公园起伏的地形，与此对比的是陡峭的曼哈顿中城地形。
en:But every time I would returnfrom my trips I&#39;d return back to New York City.And on my weekends I would go up,just like all the other tourists,to the top of the Empire State Building,and I&#39;d look down on this landscape,on these ecosystems,and I&#39;d wonder, &quot;How does this landscapework to make habitatfor plants and animals?How does it work to make habitatfor animals like me?&quot;I&#39;d go to Times Square and I&#39;d lookat the amazing ladies on the wall,and wonder why nobody is lookingat the historical figures just behind them.I&#39;d go to Central Park and seethe rolling topography of Central Parkcome up against the abrupt and sheertopography of midtown Manhattan.
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:于是，我开始阅读有关纽约市的历史和地理资料。我了解到纽约市是第一座特大城市，在1950年便拥有超过一千万人口。我开始察看这样的画作。对于你们这些来自纽约的人而言，这是城西高速公路下的125街。(笑声)这里曾是一个沙滩。而这幅图里有画家奥杜邦坐在岩石上的身影。上方的林地便是华盛顿高地，杰佛瑞虎克灯塔方向，即是今日乔治‧华盛顿大桥横跨的所在。
en:I started reading about the historyand the geography in New York City.I read that New York Citywas the first mega-city,a city of 10 million peopleor more, in 1950.I started seeing paintings like this.For those of you who are from New York,this is 125th streetunder the West Side Highway.(Laughter)It was once a beach.And this paintinghas John James Audubon,the painter, sitting on the rock.And it&#39;s looking up on the wooded heightsof Washington Heightsto Jeffrey&#39;s Hook, where the GeorgeWashington Bridge goes across today.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:再来看这幅图，描绘的是18世纪40年代的格林威治村。国王学院（后来成为哥伦比亚大学）的两位学生坐在山丘上俯瞰整个村庄。所以我来到格林威治村，想要找到那座山丘。但是我找不到它，当然也找不到那棵棕榈树。那棵棕榈树到底在哪呢？(笑声)
en:Or this painting, from the 1740s,from Greenwich Village.Those are two students at King&#39;s College —later Columbia University —sitting on a hill, overlooking a valley.And so I&#39;d go down to GreenwichVillage and I&#39;d look for this hill,and I couldn&#39;t find it.And I couldn&#39;t find that palm tree.What&#39;s that palm tree doing there?(Laughter)
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:所以，我是在调查的过程中偶遇这张地图的。也就是你所见的这一张。它被保存在地理信息系统中，我把它放大。但这幅地图并不来自于哈德逊的时代，而是来自于美国革命时期。170年后，由英国军事制图员在英占领纽约市时绘制的。这是一张很杰出的地图，现存于伦敦克佑区的英国国立档案馆中。它长10英尺，宽3.5英尺。
en:So, it was in the course of these investigationsthat I ran into a map.And it&#39;s this map you see here.It&#39;s held in a geographic information systemwhich allows me to zoom in.This map isn&#39;t from Hudson&#39;s time,but from the American Revolution,170 years later, made byBritish military cartographersduring the occupation of New York City.And it&#39;s a remarkable map.It&#39;s in the National Archives here in Kew.And it&#39;s 10 feet long andthree and a half feet wide.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:如果我放大到曼哈顿下城区，你便可以看见纽约市在美国革命末的模样。这里是鲍灵格林，而这里是百老汇街。这里是市府公园。所以这座城市基本延伸到市府公园。再往上走，便能看到地形已改变，景观已消失。这个蓄水池，曾是纽约市建立初的200年间城市的淡水来源。它也是土著美国人此前千百年来的淡水来源。你可以看到利兹本纳德草地水流流经此地，即现在的三角地翠贝卡区。而海滩从炮台一路延伸至42街。
en:And if I zoom in to lower Manhattanyou can see the extentof New York City as it was,right at the end of the American Revolution.Here&#39;s Bowling Green.And here&#39;s Broadway.And this is City Hall Park.So the city basically extendedto City Hall Park.And just beyond it you can see featuresthat have vanished,things that have disappeared.This is the Collect Pond, which wasthe fresh water source for New York Cityfor its first 200 years,and for the Native Americansfor thousands of years before that.You can see the Lispenard Meadowsdraining down through here,through what is TriBeCa now,and the beaches thatcome up from the Battery,all the way to 42nd St.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:这幅图的绘制出于军事考虑。所以他们标记了道路、楼房和他们所建造的堡垒。但是他们也标记了一些富有生态意义以及军事意义的事物：山丘沼泽和水流。这是列治文山，还有米尼塔河。它从前经由这条路流入格林威治村。格拉姆西公园的沼泽在这儿，还有莫里山，这儿是莫里之家200年前在莫里山上。这里是时代广场，两股水流在这里汇合，形成了湿地。这时正值美国革命末。
en:This map was made for military reasons.They&#39;re mapping the roads,the buildings, these fortificationsthat they built.But they&#39;re also mappingthings of ecological interest,also military interest: the hills,the marshes, the streams.This is Richmond Hill,and Minetta Water,which used to run its waythrough Greenwich Village.Or the swamp at Gramercy Park, right here.Or Murray Hill.And this is the Murrays&#39; houseon Murray Hill, 200 years ago.Here is Times Square,the two streams that cametogether to make a wetlandin Times Square, as it wasat the end of the American Revolution.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:我在一本书上看到这张了不起的地图。当时我想，“如果我可以对这张地图进行地理座标参照，把这张地图放在今日纽约市的格局上，我就能找出这座城市失落的景观。一块块地拼出人们熟悉的地貌，比如人们上班地点和他们居住地方的地貌，以及他们喜爱的餐厅的地貌。”所以经过一些努力之后，我们对它进行了地理座标参照定位，使我们能够把现代的道路、楼房和空地放到城市中。这样我们就可以放大蓄水湖的位置。我们可以将蓄水湖和水流都数字化，我们也就可以知道它们在今天的城市地理中的位置。有趣的是比照旧的地形找出现在的位置。
en:So I saw this remarkable map in a book.And I thought to myself, &quot;You know,if I could georeference this map,if I could place this mapin the grid of the city today,I could find these lost featuresof the city,in the block-by-blockgeography that people know,the geography of where peoplego to work, and where they go to live,and where they like to eat.&quot;So, after some workwe were able to georeference it,which allows us to putthe modern streets on the city,and the buildings, and the open spaces,so that we can zoom into where the Collect Pond is.We can digitize the CollectPond and the streams,and see where they actually arein the geography of the city today.So this is funfor finding where things arerelative to the old topography.
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:但是我对这张地图还有别的想法。如果我们拿走这些街道，如果我们拿走这些楼房，如果我们拿走这些绿色空地，然后我们可以得到这张地图。如果我们可以展现18世纪的特征，我们回到过去的时间。我们也可以还原过去生态基础的特征：那些山丘、水流基本水文、海岸线、海滩……那些构成生态景观的基本方面。
en:But I had another idea about this map.If we take away the streets,and if we take away the buildings,and if we take away the open spaces,then we could take this map.If we pull off the 18th century featureswe could drive it back in time.We could drive it backto its ecological fundamentals:to the hills, to the streams,to the basic hydrologyand shoreline, to the beaches,the basic aspects thatmake the ecological landscape.
时间： 6:16
zh-cn:随后，如果我们加上地质学、基岩地质学，和地表地质学，冰川遗迹；如果我们制作土壤地图，包含国家土壤保护所认定的17种土壤；如果我们可以制作一个数字地形高度模型告诉我们那些山丘的高度，我们就可以计算它们的坡度。是的，我们可以计算各方面的数据。我们可以计算冬季风的风向—也就是冬季风是怎样吹过地面景观的。地图上白色的部分是不受冬季风侵扰的地方。
en:Then, if we added mapslike the geology, the bedrock geology,and the surface geology,what the glaciers leave,if we make the soil map,with the 17 soil classes,that are defined bythe National Conservation Service,if we make a digital elevation modelof the topographythat tells us how high the hills were,then we can calculate the slopes.We can calculate the aspect.We can calculate thewinter wind exposure —so, which way the winterwinds blow across the landscape.The white areas on this mapare the places protected from the winter winds.
时间： 6:50
zh-cn:我们收集了美洲原住民勒纳佩族所有曾居住的地点的信息。然后我们建立了一个他们可能居住地点的地图。地图上红色的部分指出曼哈顿岛上最适宜人类可持续居住的地点。那些靠近水源的，靠近渔港的，不受冬季风侵扰的地方。我们知道从前有一个勒纳佩族的定居点，位于南部毗邻蓄水池的地方。我们也了解到他们有园艺种植的习惯，他们有美丽的玉米，豆类和南瓜园地，即“蔬菜三姐妹”园地。
en:We compiled all the informationabout where the Native Americans were, the Lenape.And we built a probability mapof where they might have been.So, the red areason this map indicate the placesthat are best for humansustainability on Manhattan,places that are close to water,places that are near the harbor to fish,places protected from the winter winds.We know that there was a Lenape settlementdown here by the Collect Pond.And we knew that theyplanted a kind of horticulture,that they grew these beautiful gardensof corn, beans, and squash,the &quot;Three Sisters&quot; garden.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:于是，我们建立了一个模型，来解释这些园地可能存在的地方。还有过去的园地及其周边园地的情况。我们或许会以为它们被遗弃了。但事实上，它们现在是草地，为草地鸟类和植物提供栖息地；或是已经形成灌木林地。这就混合成这张汇集所有生态社区的地图。由此，我们了解到曼哈顿岛曾有55种不同的生态系统。你可以把它们想作邻里关系，各自独特的就像三角地翠贝卡去，上东城区和Inwood区—那里有森林和湿地；水生群落和沙滩。
en:So, we built a model that explainswhere those fields might have been.And the old fields, the successional fields that go.And we might think of these as abandoned.But, in fact, they&#39;re grassland habitatsfor grassland birds and plants.And they have becomesuccessional shrub lands,and these then mix into a map of all the ecological communities.And it turns out that Manhattanhad 55 different ecosystem types.You can think of these as neighborhoods,as distinctive as TriBeCaand the Upper East Side and Inwood —that these are the forest and the wetlandsand the marine communities, the beaches.
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:55种生态系统很庞大。在平均面积的角度上，曼哈顿岛每英亩拥有的生态群落的数量甚至比优山美地国家公园多，也比美国黄石公园和肯尼亚安伯塞利保护公园多。这实在是非常奇异的景观，竟能够支持如此奇特的生物多样性。
en:And 55 is a lot. On a per-area basis,Manhattan had more ecological communitiesper acre than Yosemite does,than Yellowstone, than Amboseli.It was really an extraordinary landscapethat was capable of supportingan extraordinary biodiversity.
时间： 8:13
zh-cn:接下来，第二部分：一个重建的家园。我们对鱼类、蛙类、鸟类和蜂类进行了研究，在曼哈顿，曾有85种鱼类，有已经灭绝的新英格兰草原松鸡，还有曾经在所有溪流中发现的海狸及黑熊。我们也研究了土著居民怎样利用、思考他们的地质景观的。我们想要标记它们。为此我们做的是标记它们的居住需要。
en:So, Act II: A Home Reconstructed.So, we studied the fish and the frogsand the birds and the bees,the 85 different kinds of fishthat were on Manhattan,the Heath hens, the speciesthat aren&#39;t there anymore,the beavers on all the streams,the black bears,and the Native Americans,to study how they usedand thought about their landscape.We wanted to try and map these.And to do that what we didwas we mapped their habitat needs.
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:他们从哪儿得到食物？他们从哪儿取水？他们避护住所是什么样的？他们从哪儿得到生殖资源？对于一个生态学家而言，这之间的交汇便是栖息地。但对于大多数人而言，这之间的交汇是他们的家。所以，我们想要阅读野外指南，标准野外指南，就是你们书架上可能会有的那一类。你知道，海狸需要的是“一条流速缓而曲折的溪流，边上还得有白杨，赤杨和柳树。”这就是最适合海狸的。
en:Where do they get their food?Where do they get their water?Where do they get their shelter?Where do they get theirreproductive resources?To an ecologist, the intersectionof these is habitat,but to most people,the intersection of these is their home.So, we would read in field guides,the standard field guidesthat maybe you have on your shelves,you know, what beavers need is,&quot;A slowly meandering streamwith aspen trees and alders and willows,near the water.&quot;That&#39;s the best thing for a beaver.
时间： 9:07
zh-cn:所以我们开始列表。这里是海狸，这里是水流，这里则是白杨，赤杨和柳树。如果这些就是我们所需的地图，我们就可以预测在哪里你能够找到一只海狸。或者一只牟氏龟，需要湿草地、昆虫和阳光充裕的地方。或者是一只山猫，需要野兔、海狸和洞穴。于是我们很快意识到海狸可能会是山猫需要的东西。但是海狸本身也需要某些东西。所以无论把它们放在捕食者或被捕食者的一边，我们都能把它们连接起来。于是，我们有了这些物种栖息关系的网络。
en:So we just started making a list.Here is the beaver.And here is the stream,and the aspen and the alderand the willow.As if these were the mapsthat we would needto predict where you would find the beaver.Or the bog turtle, needing wet meadowsand insects and sunny places.Or the bobcat, needing rabbitsand beavers and den sites.And rapidly we started to realizethat beavers can besomething that a bobcat needs.But a beaver also needs things.And that having iton either side means thatwe can link it together,that we can create the networkof the habitat relationshipsfor these species.
时间： 9:40
zh-cn:另外，我们也意识到你可以以一个海狸专家的身份开始研究，但是你需要知道白杨需要的东西。白杨喜光，强阳性和干燥的土壤。然后你可以知道湿草地需要什么。它需要海狸创造湿地，或许还有其它的东西。但是你可以再想想阳光灿烂的地方。那么，阳光灿烂的地方需要什么？本身不是栖息地。但是，在何种情况下才有可能呢？或为阳光，或为干土。这样一来，你可以将这些联系画在1000栏的格线上，左侧也填入1000格资料。然后我们将这些数据网状图像化，就像一个社交网络。
en:Moreover, we realizedthat you can start outas being a beaver specialist,but you can look up what an aspen needs.An aspen needs fire and dry soils.And you can look atwhat a wet meadow needs.And it need beaversto create the wetlands,and maybe some other things.But you can also talkabout sunny places.So, what does a sunny place need?Not habitat per se.But what are the conditionsthat make it possible?Or fire. Or dry soils.And that you can put theseon a grid that&#39;s 1,000 columns longacross the top and 1,000 rowsdown the other way.And then we can visualizethis data like a network,like a social network.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:这张网络汇集所有的栖息关系，所有生活在曼哈顿岛上的动植物，以及所有它们需要的东西。我们于是能够回到地质学的范畴，回到网络核心的时间和空间位置。我们把这叫做缪尔网络。如果你放大，它会是这样的。每一个点都代表一个不同的物种或者一条不同的溪流或土壤种类。而这些灰色的线表示将它们联系起来的关联。这些连线恢复了自然生态活力。这种结构则是自然的运作机理，每一个部分，正如你所见。我们把它称作缪尔网络，以纪念美籍苏格兰裔自然学家约翰·缪尔，他曾说：“当我们试着举出一个自身事物，我们总会发现它被数以千计的看不见的关系牵连，对于任何宇宙中的事物，这种联系都不能被打破。”
en:And this is the networkof all the habitat relationshipsof all the plants and animalson Manhattan,and everything they needed,going back to the geology,going back to time and spaceat the very core of the web.We call this the Muir Web.And if you zoom in on it it looks like this.Each point is a different speciesor a different streamor a different soil type.And those little gray lines are the connectionsthat connect them together.They are the connectionsthat actually make nature resilient.And the structure of thisis what makes nature work,seen with all its parts.We call these Muir Websafter the Scottish-American naturalistJohn Muir, who said, &quot;When we tryto pick out anything by itself,we find that it&#39;s bound fastby a thousand invisible cordsthat cannot be broken,to everything in the universe.&quot;
时间：11:01
zh-cn:之后我们引用了缪尔网络并把它带回地图上。如果我们想去85街和86街之间的区域，以及莱克星顿街和3街之间的地方，或许在那个街区里曾有一条溪流。或许某种树类曾在那里生长，还有花、地衣和苔藓，蝴蝶和水中的鱼，树上的鸟。或许还有一只森林响尾蛇生活在那儿。或许一只黑熊曾出没过，或许土著居民也生活在那里。然后我们应用了这些资料。
en:So then we took the Muir websand we took them back to the maps.So if we wanted to go between 85th and 86th,and Lex and Third,maybe there was a stream in that block.And these would be the kind of treesthat might have been there,and the flowers and the lichensand the mosses,the butterflies, the fish in the stream,the birds in the trees.Maybe a timber rattlesnake lived there.And perhaps a black bear walked by.And maybe Native Americans were there.And then we took this data.
时间：11:28
zh-cn:你可以亲自访问我们的网站，你可以放大曼哈顿任何的街区，然后看一看400年前那里的模样。而我们用它来重现景观。最后，第三部分。我们使用了当今好莱坞惯用的工具来制作这些只有在电影中才看得到的奇幻的自然景观。
en:You can see this for yourselfon our website.You can zoom intoany block on Manhattan,and see what might havebeen there 400 years ago.And we used it to tryand reveal a landscapehere in Act III.We used the tools they use in Hollywoodto make these fantastic landscapesthat we all see in the movies.
时间：11:45
zh-cn:我们尝试图像化第三大道。我们取得并绘制地貌地形。我们还原土壤和河流，恢复以前地貌。我们把生态群落放到地图的顶层，并填充物种地图。这样一来，我们甚至可以拍照片，飞跃时代广场，面朝哈得逊河的方向，等待哈得逊先生的到来。使用这种技术，我们有了这些引人入胜的地理坐标参照景观。我们很容易拍摄到曼哈顿岛上任何视角的照片，然后看一看它四百年前的样子。
en:And we tried to use it to visualize Third Avenue.So we would take the landscapeand we would build up the topography.We&#39;d lay on top of that the soils and the waters,and illuminate the landscape.We would lay on top of thatthe map of the ecological communities.And feed into that the map of the species.So that we would actually take a photograph,flying above Times Square,looking toward the Hudson River,waiting for Hudson to come.Using this technology, we can make thesefantastic georeferenced views.We can basically take a pictureout of any windowon Manhattan and see what that landscapelooked like 400 years ago.
时间：12:17
zh-cn:这是从东河向莫里山看到今天联合国总部所在的位置。这是俯瞰哈德逊河。左边是曼哈顿，右边是新泽西州，朝着大西洋。这是时代广场上空的景致，海狸水塘在那儿，朝东面看。我们可以看见蓄水池，立兹本纳德沼泽在其后。我们可以看见那些土著美国人开垦的园地。我们也可以在今天的城市中看到它。所以当你看到电视剧“法律与秩序”中的律师沿着纽约法院前的阶梯径直走，要是400年前，他们则是走进蓄水塘。
en:This is the view from the East River,looking up Murray Hillat where the United Nations is today.This is the view lookingdown the Hudson River,with Manhattan on the left,and New Jersey out on the right,looking out toward the Atlantic Ocean.This is the view over Times Square,with the beaver pond there,looking out toward the east.So we can see the Collect Pond,and Lispenard Marshes back behind.We can see the fieldsthat the Native Americans made.And we can see thisin the geography of the city today.So when you&#39;re watching &quot;Law and Order,&quot;and the lawyers walk up the stepsthey could have walkedback down those stepsof the New York Court House,right into the Collect Pond,400 years ago.
时间：12:59
zh-cn:这些图像是我的朋友和同事的杰作。马克波耶尔先生，今天他也在观众席中。在这里我希望在座各位可以为他鼓掌，感谢他的出色表现。(鼓掌)
en:So these images are the workof my friend and colleague,Mark Boyer, who is herein the audience today.And I&#39;d just like, if you wouldgive him a hand,to call out for his fine work.(Applause)
时间：13:18
zh-cn:科技与视觉化技术确实能够有这样的力量，使我们创造出了如此的图像。或许这就是看着镜子的两面。尽管今天时间有限，我仍希望你们能够意识到曼哈顿是一个很特别的地方。在这里，你所看到左侧生态是相互关联的，而这是基于生态的多样性而言的。它拥有的活力正是当今世界所需要的。
en:There is such power in bringingscience and visualization together,that we can create images like this,perhaps looking on eitherside of a looking glass.And even though I&#39;ve onlyhad a brief time to speak,I hope you appreciate thatMannahatta was a very special place.The place that you see hereon the left sidewas interconnected.It was based on this diversity.It had this resilience that iswhat we need in our modern world.
时间：13:41
zh-cn:但是我不希望让你们认为我不喜欢右边的地方（现在的曼哈顿），事实上，我很爱纽约，让我爱上它的正是这座城市的多样性和活力，以及人口稠密区的互相依存、我们是怎样联系在一起的。实际上，我把它们看作是各自的倒影。确实很像是刘易斯卡洛尔在“透过镜子看”中的想法。我们可以比较这两者，并同时在心中拥有它们，因为它们确实是同一处地点，城市也是无论如何离不开自然的。我认为，这是我们学习如何建造未来城市的一种借鉴。
en:But I wouldn&#39;t have you thinkthat I don&#39;t like the placeon the right, which I quite do.I&#39;ve come to love the cityand its kind of diversity,and its resilience,and its dependence on densityand how we&#39;re connected together.In fact, that I see themas reflections of each other,much as Lewis Carroll didin &quot;Through the Looking Glass.&quot;We can compare these two and hold themin our minds at the same time,that they really are the same place,that there is no way that citiescan escape from nature.And I think this is what we&#39;re learningabout building cities in the future.
时间：14:14
zh-cn:所以允许我做一个简短的总结，这不仅关于过去的，而是以后的400年，我们想到，城市是人类居住的场所，需要提供人类需要的东西：一种家的感觉、食物、水和庇护住所，繁殖资源和一种有意义的感觉。这是一种人类特有的对栖息地的要求。也有这么多TED演讲是关于意义的，关于如何将意义带入我们的生活的方方面面，通过技术、通过艺术、通过科学，多到我认为我们把太多的关注投向生活方面，同时我们对于食物、水源、住所，以及我们所需供给孩子的东西的关注却不够。
en:So if you&#39;ll allow me a brief epilogue,not about the past,but about 400 years from now,what we&#39;re realizing is thatcities are habitats for people,and need to supply what people need:a sense of home, food, water, shelter,reproductive resources,and a sense of meaning.This is the particular additionalhabitat requirement of humanity.And so many of the talks hereat TED are about meaning,about bringing meaning to our livesin all kinds of different ways, through technology,through art, through science,so much so that I thinkwe focus so much onthat side of our lives,that we haven&#39;t given enoughattention to the food and the waterand the shelter,and what we need to raise the kids.
时间：14:55
zh-cn:所以，我们又该怎样展望城市的未来呢？那么，如果我们走到麦迪逊广场公园，想象周围没有汽车，而是自行车，以及大片的森林、溪流，而不是下水道和排水管，世界会怎样？如果我们想象在上东区，有绿色的自然屋顶，溪流蜿蜒穿过城市，风车提供我们所需的能量，世界又会怎样？又或者，当我们想象，纽约市的大都会地区，目前是一千两百万人的家，但未来可能将有一千两百万人住在曼哈顿的人口稠密区，那仅仅是本区36%的土地面积，其间被人们所需的农田、湿地、沼泽覆盖。
en:So, how can we envisionthe city of the future?Well, what if we goto Madison Square Park,and we imagine it without all the cars,and bicycles insteadand large forests, and streams insteadof sewers and storm drains?What if we imagined the Upper East Sidewith green roofs, and streamswinding through the city,and windmills supplyingthe power we need?Or if we imagine the New YorkCity metropolitan area,currently home to 12 million people,but 12 million people in the future,perhaps living at the density of Manhattan,in only 36 percent of the area,with the areas in betweencovered by farmland,covered by wetlands,covered by the marshes we need.
时间：15:37
zh-cn:这就是我心目中，人们所需的未来，一个同样多的生物多样性、丰富性和活力性的曼哈顿，同时借鉴了过去的可持续生存之道，无论是生态学、原始生态学还是大自然的一切。非常感谢！(鼓掌)
en:This is the kind of future I think we need,is a future that has the same diversityand abundance and dynamism of Manhattan,but that learns from thesustainability of the past,of the ecology, the original ecology,of nature with all its parts.Thank you very much.(Applause)
