时间： 0:15
zh-cn:如果你想想电话-正如英特尔（intel）已经测试过的我将向你展示最近10年间的很多东西在大约600个老年家庭中-其中300个在爱尔兰，300个在波兰正在尝试理解我们如何用一种和观察行为并以一种医学上有意义的方式？
en:If you think about the phone —and Intel has testeda lot of the things I&#39;m going to show you,over the last 10 years,in about 600 elderly households —300 in Ireland, and 300 in Portland —trying to understand: How do we measureand monitor behaviorin a medically meaningful way?
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:如果你考虑一下电话，好我们可以用一些不可思议的方式使用它（比如）帮助人们在正确的时间服用正确的药物我们正在测试这些简单的在家里使用的传感网络技术任何与传感器适应良好的电话都可以帮助他们处理药物很多情况下他们做的就是拿起电话然后我们的系统就会轻声对他们说，他们该吃那些药了让他们觉得就像在跟朋友聊天而不用对着一个厨房的桌子上的丑陋的药箱子为难地说：&quot;我老了，我很脆弱。”这项技术具有保密性帮助他们完成一项简单的任务即按时服药
en:And if you think about the phone, right,it&#39;s something that we can use for some incredible waysto help people actually take the right medication at the right time.We&#39;re testing these kinds of simplesensor-network technologies in the homeso that any phone that a senior is already comfortable withcan help them deal with their medications.And a lot of what they do is they pick up the phone,and it&#39;s our system whispering to them which pill they need to take,and they fake like they&#39;re having a conversation with a friend.And they&#39;re not embarrassed by a meds caddy that&#39;s ugly,that sits on their kitchen table and says,&quot;I&#39;m old. I&#39;m frail.&quot;It&#39;s surreptitious technologythat&#39;s helping them do a simple taskof taking the right pill at the right time.
时间： 1:09
zh-cn:目前，我们还在电话上做了一些非常惊人事情因为当你在接电话的时候每次做的都是一个认知的测试想一下，好吗？我正在要接这三个不同的电话“喂？是你啊。”行吧？这是第一次“喂？噢，是你啊”“喂？哦，谁？”“哦，是你啊”对吧？非常大的差别在我三次接电话中由于我们观测电话的使用通过传感器，已经有很长时间了（甚至观测细致到）数十微秒的程度还有认出的时刻他们是否能认出电话那头的对方是谁是朋友的话，他们就立刻开始跟他们聊天或者（没认出来），他们就会做很多被称作麻烦对话的问话都像这个样子，“等等，是谁呀？哦。”今天临床显示，等待认知时刻或许是最好的老年痴呆症发病早期显示器，比什么都好。
en:Now, we also do some pretty amazing things with these phones.Because that moment when you answer the phoneis a cognitive test every time that you do it.Think about it, all right? I&#39;m going to answer the phone three different times.&quot;Hello? Hey.&quot;All right? That&#39;s the first time.&quot;Hello? Uh, hey.&quot;&quot;Hello? Uh, who?Oh, hey.&quot;All right? Very big differencesbetween the way I answered the phone the three times.And as we monitor phone usageby seniors over a long period of time,down to the tenths of a microsecond,that recognition momentof whether they can figure out that person on the other endis a friend and we start talking to them immediately,or they do a lot of what&#39;s called trouble talk,where they&#39;re like, &quot;Wait, who is this? Oh.&quot; Right?Waiting for that recognition momentmay be the best early indicator of the onset of dementiathan anything that shows up clinically today.
时间： 2:07
zh-cn:我们称这些是行为的记录者。还有很多其它的方式。这个人是否跟原先一样，电话一响就接了呢？是听觉上的问题还是行动不便？还是声音变的轻了呢？我们研究了很多患有阿尔茨海默氏症，特别是帕金森症的病人，轻声可能是最好的发现前期帕金森症的征兆，比临床显现的要早5年到10年。但是你声音的那些长时间的微妙改变对于你和你的配偶来说是很难发现的，直到它恶化，你的声音变得完全轻微的时候。
en:We call these behavioral markers.There&#39;s lots of others. Is the person going to the phoneas quickly, when it rings, as they used to?Is it a hearing problem or is it a physicality problem?Has their voice gotten more quiet? We&#39;re doing a lot of work with peoplewith Alzheimer&#39;s and particularly with Parkinson&#39;s,where that quiet voice that sometimes shows up with Parkinson&#39;s patientsmay be the best early indicatorof Parkinson&#39;s five to 10 years before it shows up clinically.But those subtle changes in your voice over a long period of timeare hard for you or your spouse to notice until it becomes so extremeand your voice has become so quiet.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:所以说，传感器就监视这种声音。当你接电话的时候，你的声带震动了多少，那是怎么样的，你以前又是什么状况的？你打电话时是否感到比以前费劲儿？是灵活性的问题？还是关节炎的问题？你在打电话么？你是否比以前联系朋友的次数少了？看那个模型。社交健康降低意味着什么呢，是否算是一种来自未来的至关重要的信号呢？哇，这是什么先进的想法，我们，除了在美国，可能能够使用这种新奇的科技来与另一端的护士或医生们交流。当我们真的能这么做的时候，该是多么美好的一天呀。
en:So, sensors are looking at that kind of voice.When you pick up the phone,how much tremor are you having,and what is that like, and what is that trend like over a period of time?Are you having more trouble dialing the phone than you used to?Is it a dexterity problem? Is it the onset of arthritis?Are you using the phone? Are you socializing less than you used to?And looking at that pattern. And what does that decline in social healthmean, as a kind of a vital sign of the future?And then wow, what a radical idea,we — except in the United States —might be able to use this newfangled technologyto actually interact with a nurse or a doctor on the other end of the line.Wow, what a great day that will beonce we&#39;re allowed to actually do those kinds of things.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:这就是我们所说的行为记录者。这是我们过去十年在Intel公司所努力的。你如何将简单的全新技术用一句话讲出来，我这次总共才打算说五句话？行为记录者很重要。我们怎样才能改变行为呢？当它能帮助我们预防疾病，早期疾病的爆发，记录疾病的长期进展，我们怎样量化这样的行为所带来的重大意义上的改变呢？
en:So, these are what I would call behavioral markers.And it&#39;s the whole field that we&#39;ve been trying to work onfor the last 10 years at Intel.How do you put simple disruptive technologies,and the first of five phrases that I&#39;m going to talk about in this talk?Behavioral markers matter.How do we change behavior?How do we measure changes in behaviorin a meaningful way that&#39;s going to help us withprevention of disease, early onset of disease,and tracking the progression of disease over a long period of time?
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:现在，为什么Intel公司让我花费无数的实践和金钱，数十年来，试图了解老人的需要，并试图了解这些行为记录者呢？这是我们已经了解的一些领域。过去十年中，我们同20个国家的1000多户老人生活在一起。我们研究纽约州罗切斯特市的人们。我们一冬天都跟他们生活在一起，因为他们在冬天的所作所为，他们的医保，他们的社交都跟他们在夏天的完全不一样。如果他们髋部骨折了，我们会跟随着他们，研究他们的整个过程。如果他们有家庭成员是他们医保网络的重要部分，我们就飞过去，研究他们。
en:Now, why would Intel let mespend a lot of time and money, over the last 10 years,trying to understand the needs of seniorsand start thinking about these kinds of behavioral markers?This is some of the field work that we&#39;ve done.We have now lived with 1,000 elderly householdsin 20 countries over the last 10 years.We study people in Rochester, New York.We go live with them in the winterbecause what they do in the winter,and their access to healthcare, and how much they socialize,is very different than in the summer.If they have a hip fracture we go with themand we study their entire discharge experience.If they have a family member who is a key part of their care network,we fly and study them as well.
时间： 4:21
zh-cn:所以说，在过去的10年中，20多个不同的国家，我们进行了1000多个传感器的整体健康试验。为什么Intel公司愿意资助我们呢？原因也正是我要讲到的第二个口号。10年前，当我刚刚开始向Intel公司游说让我实施这个能够帮助单独个体家庭的新奇的技术时，我使用了“Y2K+10”这个口号。
en:So, we study the holistic health experienceof 1,000 seniors over the last 10 yearsin 20 different countries.Why is Intel willing to fund that?It&#39;s because of the second slogan that I want to talk about.Ten years ago, when I started trying to convince Intelto let me go start looking at disruptive technologiesthat could help with independent living,this is what I called it: &quot;Y2K + 10.&quot;
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:你知道，在2000年的时候，我们都着迷于计算机的千年虫问题，看他们是否能够随着时钟从1999到2000的滴答声中幸存下来，但我们却错过了人口学家所关注的时刻。那就在新年夜前后。那是个大转变，这个星球上第一次老年人比年轻人多。也是人类历史上的第一次，禁止外国人登陆或者其他一些主要瘟疫，那就是人口统计学的期望，又向前了一步。
en:You know, back in 2000,we were all so obsessed with paying attentionto the aging of our computers,and whether or not they were going to survivethe tick of the clock from 1999 to 2000,that we missed a moment that only demographers were paying attention to.It was right around New Years.And that switchover,when we had the larger number of older people on the planet,for the first time than younger people.For the first time in human history — and barring aliens landingor some major other pandemic,that&#39;s the expectation from demographers, going forward.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:10年前，看起来好像我有很多时间劝说Intel公司研究这个。对吧？Y2K+10正来临，婴儿潮也正开始退却。大伙看看，这就好像我们知道这些人口统计学似的。这是张世界地图。这就像灯是亮着的，却没有人思考着人口统计学的Y2K+10问题。对吧？我的意思是，我们好像是了解了，但是我们却没有真正了解。我们没解决任何问题。
en:And 10 years ago it seemed like I had a lot of timeto convince Intel to work on this. Right?Y2K + 10 was coming,the baby boomers starting to retire.Well folks, it&#39;s like we know these demographics here.This is a map of the entire world.It&#39;s like the lights are on,but nobody&#39;s home on this demographicY2K + 10 problem. Right?I mean we sort of get it here, but we don&#39;t get it here,and we&#39;re not doing anything about it.
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:医保改革大体上忽视了正来临的老龄化和我们需要做些什么来改变不仅仅是我们如何支付医疗保健，更是用一些完全不同的方式来实施医疗保健的影响。实际上，这取决于我们。我的意思是，你可能读到过这些头条新闻。这是凯瑟琳凯西，她是第一位实际上得到社会保障的婴儿潮出生的孩子。其实是今年发生的事。她选择提前退休。她在1946年的午夜1秒钟后出生的。她是一位退休的学校老师。这是她同她的社保人员在一起，第一位婴儿潮出生的人，我们还没等到2011年，也就是明年。我们已经看到了今年提前退休的人们。
en:The health reform bill is largely ignoringthe realities of the age wave that&#39;s coming,and the implications for what we need to do to changenot only how we pay for care,but deliver care in some radically different ways.And in fact, it&#39;s upon us.I mean you probably saw these headlines. This is Catherine Caseywho is the first boomer to actually get Social Security.That actually occurred this year. She took early retirement.She was born one second after midnight in 1946.A retired school teacher,there she is with a Social Security administrator.The first boomer actually, we didn&#39;t even wait till 2011, next year.We&#39;re already starting to see early retirement occur this year.
时间： 6:16
zh-cn:好，现在。这个Y2K+10问题就在我们家门口。日历上记录着50个海啸。但是不知何故，我们没能够鼓舞我们的政府，没能够激发出力量来做点什么。我们只是等待着，直到发生更多的灾难后才有反应，而不是提前准备好。所以说，备战Y2K问题很富有挑战性的众多原因之一是，我想争辩一下，我们有我称之为主体中毒的东西。
en:All right, so it&#39;s here. This Y2K + 10 problem is at our door.This is 50 tsunamis scheduled on the calendar,but somehow we can&#39;t sort of marshal our governmentand innovative forces to sort of get out in front of itand do something about it. We&#39;ll wait untilit&#39;s more of a catastrophe, and react,as opposed to prepare for it.So, one of the reasons it&#39;s sochallenging to prepare for this Y2K problemis, I want to argue, we have what I would callmainframe poisoning.
时间： 6:43
zh-cn:安迪 格鲁夫，大约在六到七年前，他甚至都不知道或不记得这个了，在一期财富杂志的文章中他用到了“主体医保”的词语，我就一直在扩展这个词语。他看到这个词语出现在一些地方。 他说了类似这样的话“埃里克，那个点子真棒。”我就说了类似这样的话“实际上那是你的点子。是你在一期财富杂志的文章中说过的。而我只是将它扩展了。”你知道，这也是个主体。
en:Andy Grove, about six or seven years ago,he doesn&#39;t even know or remember this, in a Fortune Magazine articlehe used the phrase &quot;mainframe healthcare,&quot;and I&#39;ve been extending and expanding this.He saw it written down somewhere. He&#39;s like, &quot;Eric that&#39;s a really cool concept.&quot;I was like, &quot;Actually it was your idea. You said it in a Fortune Magazine article.I just extended it.&quot;You know, this is the mainframe.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:旅游和分期巨额的医保系统的想法实际开始于1787年。第一个普通医院建立在维也纳。实际上维也纳的第二个普通议员是在大约1850年，也是在我们准备扩建医药学生的整个课程的地方。我们开始发展人体构造建筑学的地方，将保健分散到不同的部门和机构中。我们的建筑学也受其影响。我们教学生的方式也受其影响。这个主体在精神上持续到今天。
en:This mentality of traveling toand timesharing large, expensive healthcare systemsactually began in 1787.This is the first general hospital in Vienna.And actually the second general hospital in Vienna,in about 1850, was where we started to build outan entire curriculum for teaching med students specialties.And it&#39;s a place in which we started developingarchitecture that literally divided the body,and divided care into departments and compartments.And it was reflected in our architecture,it was reflected in the way that we taught students,and this mainframe mentality persists today.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:我并不是反对医院。我使用药物疗法的医保问题是，我的从一个医院到另一个医院，许多许多次。但是我们把医院放在一个很高的位置上。对吧？这个就是主体的医保。就在30年前，我们还不能够想象到我们能够有一台具有主体计算机的能力，却只有我们的钱包和皮带大小，我们今天可以随时随地用手机带着它。突然间，计算机化，原先只是个专家驱动系统，是一个个人系统，我们把它作为我们日常生活的一部分。那个从主体到个人化的转变是我们需要在医保改革中做的。我们需要从这个主体医保的想法转变到以个人为模型的医保。
en:Now, I&#39;m not anti-hospital.With my own healthcare problems, I&#39;ve taken drug therapies,I&#39;ve traveled to this hospital and others, many, many times.But we worship the high hospital on a hill. Right?And this is mainframe healthcare.And just as 30 years agowe couldn&#39;t conceive that we would have the powerof a mainframe computer that took up a room this sizein our purses and on our belts,that we&#39;re carrying around in our cell phone today,and suddenly, computing,that used to be an expert driven system,it was a personal system that we all owned as part of our daily lives —that shift from mainframe to personal computingis what we have to do for healthcare.We have to shift from this mainframe mentality of healthcareto a personal model of healthcare.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:我们对这个想法着迷。当Intel公司对全世界做调研时，我们说，“快速回复，医保。”出现的第一个词就是医生。出现的第二个词就是医院。第三个是疾病。对吧？我们被束缚着，在我们的想象中，生了病联想到到医保和医保创新,就好像是件理所应当的事。我们现在的整个医疗改革争论，健康I.T.，当我们同制度的制定者谈话时等于我们如何要医生使用主体电子医药记录？我们没有想过如果将主体转变到家庭。这个的问题是我们想到医保的方式。对吧？
en:We are obsessed with this way of thinking.When Intel does surveys all around the world and we say,&quot;Quick response: healthcare.&quot;The first word that comes up is &quot;doctor.&quot;The second that comes up is &quot;hospital.&quot; And the third is &quot;illness&quot; or &quot;sickness.&quot; Right?We are wired, in our imagination, to think about healthcareand healthcare innovation as somethingthat goes into that place.Our entire health reform discussion right now,health I.T., when we talk with policy makers,equals &quot;How are we going to get doctors usingelectronic medical records in the mainframe?&quot;We&#39;re not thinking abouthow do we shift from the mainframe to the home.And the problem with this isthe way we conceive healthcare. Right?
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:这是个多反应，危机驱动的系统。我们对患者做了15分钟的试验。基于人口。我们集合了一些生物学的信息。将它们整合，就像玩Humpty-Dumpty一样，然后送他们回家，再希望，我们给他们一本小册子，或许还有一个交互式的网站，通过网站，他们按照所要求的行动，不再回到主体中来。
en:This is a very reactive, crisis-driven system.We&#39;re doing 15-minute exams with patients.It&#39;s population-based.We collect a bunch of biological information in this artificial setting,and we fix them up, like Humpty-Dumpty all over again,and send them home,and hope — we might hand them a brochure, maybe an interactive website —that they do as asked and don&#39;t come back into the mainframe.
时间： 9:16
zh-cn:问题是，大伙们，我们今天还无法担负这个系统。我们担负不起要求现在的主体医保包括那些没有保险的。现在我们希望能有双重保险在老龄化来的时候？做医保生意同以往一样不景气，我们需要做些不同的事情。我们需要关注家庭。
en:And the problem is we can&#39;t afford it today, folks.We can&#39;t afford mainframe healthcare today to include the uninsured.And now we want to do a double-doubleof the age wave coming through?Business as usual in healthcare is broken and we&#39;ve got to do something different.We&#39;ve got to focus on the home.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:我们需要关注个人医保例子那些将保健带到家的例子。我们如何变得更积极主动，更加保护驱动呢？我们如何24小时一周7天的不间断地收集重要信号和其他的信息呢？我们如何知晓如何为你工作的个人底线呢？我们如何收集不仅仅是生物学数据还有行为数据，心理学数据，人际关系数据，跟整个家庭相关的方方面面的数据呢？我们如何驱动个人化的保健方案来改变我们的行为，这个保健方案使用了我们周围的伟大科技？这就是我们自身的医保模式所需要的。
en:We&#39;ve got to focus on a personal healthcare paradigmthat moves care to the home. How do we be more proactive,prevention-driven?How do we collect vital signs and other kinds of information 24 by 7?How do we get a personal baseline about what&#39;s going to work for you?How do we collect not just biological databut behavioral data, psychological data,relational data, in and on and around the home?And how do we drive compliance to be a customized care planthat uses all this great technology that&#39;s around usto change our behavior?That&#39;s what we need to do for our personal health model.
时间：10:02
zh-cn:我来给你们一些例子。这是咪咪-我们研究对象之一-她90岁的时候，离开了家因为她的家人担心她会摔倒。如果在你家，有过严重的摔倒，不论是你，还是你的爱人，你的父母还是其他人，请举起你的手。对吧？太经典了。髋部骨折通常导致老年人的日常生活。这就是发生在咪咪身上的事情，她全家都很担心，所以将她搬了出来，搬到一所养老院。她的氧气罐绊倒了她。
en:I want to give you a couple of examples. This is Mimifrom one of our studies —in her 90s, had to move out of her homebecause her family was worried about falls.Raise your hand if you had a serious fallin your household, or any of your loved ones,your parents or so forth. Right?Classic. Hip fracture often leads to institutionalization of a senior.This is what was happening to Mimi; the family was worried about it,moved her out of her own home into an assisted living facility.She tripped over her oxygen tank.
时间：10:28
zh-cn:这代人中的大多数人都不会按下按钮，即便他们有报警系统，因为他们不想麻烦别人，即便他们每月支付30美金。婴儿潮出生的人会按下按钮。相信我。他们会不停的按下按钮的。对吧?
en:Many people in this generation won&#39;t press the button,even if they have an alert call system, because they don&#39;t want to bother anybody,even though they&#39;ve been paying 30 dollars a month.Boomers will press the button. Trust me.They&#39;re going to be pressing that button non-stop. Right?
时间：10:40
zh-cn:咪咪的骨盆骨折了，她就那样躺了一整天，一整夜，终于有人进来发现了她，将她送进了医院。他们固定住了她的背部。她永远也不能够搬回养老院了。他们将她送进了护理之家。在护理之家的第一个夜晚，也是她原先呆过的养老院，他们将她从一张床移到另一张床，动作大了点，结果造成她的骨盆再次骨折。她又被送到她刚刚出院的那家医院，没有人看过病历，就给她泰诺，可是她对泰诺过敏，过敏症爆发后，她得了褥疮，基本上，还有心脏的问题，最后她在摔倒后和并发症以及种种错误下去世了。
en:Mimi broke her pelvis, lay all night, all morning,finally somebody came in and found her,sent her to the hospital.They fixed her back up. She was never going to be able to move backinto the assisted living. They put her into the nursing home unit.First night in the nursing home unit where she had beenin the same assisted living facility, moved her from one bed to another,kind of threw her, rebroke her pelvis,sent her back to the hospital that she had just come from,no one read the chart, put her on Tylenol,which she is allergic to, broke out, got bedsores,basically, had heart problems, and diedfrom the fall and the complications and the errors that were there.
时间：11:12
zh-cn:现在，这个最可怕的是，这是我妻子的祖母。我是埃里克迪什曼。我讲英语。我为Intel公司工作。我挣的钱不少。对于跟摔倒相关的损伤我很注意。这是我工作的研究领域。我能接触到参议员和CEO。我不能够阻止这样的事情继续发生。如果你没有钱，也不会英语，或者也没有什么人能接触来解决这样不可避免发生的问题，又会发生些什么呢？我们实际上如何首先阻止绝大多数摔倒的发生？
en:Now, the most frightening thing about this isthis is my wife&#39;s grandmother.Now, I&#39;m Eric Dishman. I speak English,I work for Intel, I make a good salary,I&#39;m smart about falls and fall-related injuries —it&#39;s an area of research that I work on.I have access to senators and CEOs.I can&#39;t stop this from happening.What happens if you don&#39;t have money, you don&#39;t speak Englishor don&#39;t have the kind of accessto deal with these kinds of problems that inevitably occur?How do we actually prevent the vast majority of fallsfrom ever occurring in the first place?
时间：11:45
zh-cn:让我给你们一个简短的例子，来展示给你们我们正在从事的工作。一种我们成为Shimmer的科技。它是一个研究平台。它有个加速器。你能插入一个3导联心电图。那里有所有种类的即插即用的像乐高一样的装置，你可以捕获，野生的，现实世界的，像震颤，步态，步幅，以及那类的信息。
en:Let me give you a quick example of work that we&#39;re doingto try to do exactly that.I&#39;ve been wearing a little technology that we call Shimmer.It&#39;s a research platform.It has accelerometry. You can plug in a three-lead ECG.There is all kinds of sort of plug-and-playkind of Legos that you can do to capture, in the wild,in the real world,things like tremor, gait,stride length and those kinds of things.
时间：12:07
zh-cn:问题是，我们对摔倒的理解，在今天，像咪咪，就是在你摔到三个月后收到一封调查邮件，它来自于州政府，上面写着“你跌倒的时候在干什么？”这也算是一种州政府的艺术。但是，当有了像Shimmer一类，或者我们称之为神奇地谈的帮助，将监控器放入地毯中，或者一个从运动医学借鉴来的基于摄像头的系统，我们第一次向600个老年住户收集实际的运动学移动数据来了解正在发生的微妙变化是什么这也向我们显示了妈妈也存在摔倒的风险。
en:The problem is, our understanding of falls today,like Mimi, is get a survey in the mail three months after you fell,from the State, saying, &quot;What were you doing when you fell?&quot;That&#39;s sort of the state of the art.But with something like Shimmer, or we have something called the Magic Carpet,embedded sensors in carpet, or camera-based systemsthat we borrowed from sports medicine,we&#39;re starting for the first time in those 600 elderly householdsto collect actual kinematic motion datato understand: What are the subtle changes that are occurringthat can show us that mom has become risk at falls?
时间：12:39
zh-cn:最多的，我们能做两种干预，修复医药合剂。我是一名定性的研究人员，但是当我看到这些来自于这些家庭的数据时，我能够通过这些数据告诉你有一天医生会给他们开处方，没有人能够察觉。因为我们看到的改变就发生在他们的家中。对吧?这些行为记录者的发明，和行为的改变改变了游戏规则，就像显微镜的发明一样因为我们收集数据的方法是我们从来没有使用过的。
en:And most often we can do two interventions,fix the meds mix.I&#39;m a qualitative researcher, but when I look at these data streams coming infrom these homes, I can look at the data and tell you the daythat some doctor prescribed them something that nobody elseknew that they were on, because we see the changesin their patterns in the household. Right?These discoveries of behavioral markers,and behavioral changesare game changing, and like the discovery of the microscopebecause of our collecting data streams that we&#39;ve actually never done before.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:这是一个发生在爱尔兰的Trill诊所的例子是关于...你们自己看吧，她在读取照片里的数据，来自于神奇地毯。所以，一块小地毯你可以看到你自己的状态，还能看到数月中你自己状态的改变。这里是一些数据可能出现的样子。这个实际上是传感器
en:This is an example in our TRIL Clinic in Irelandof — actually what you&#39;re seeing isshe&#39;s looking at data,in this picture, from the Magic Carpet.So, we have a little carpet that you can look at your amount of postural sway,and look at the changes in your postural sway over many months.Here&#39;s what some of this data might look like.This is actually sensor firings.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:我们的研究有两个不同的主题。大约是一年的数据。颜色代表了房屋中不同的房间。左边的这个人住在他们自己的屋子里。右边的这个人实际上住在养老院。我知道这些是因为当他们不住在自己的屋子时，他们的吃饭时间都很准。对吧？现在，这些对你并不重要。但是，当你看到长时间的整体数据时，我们能从房屋中不同房间的动态看出任何信息，像Shimmer收集的微观动态，关于步态和步幅，这些数据告诉我们行为模式，一些我们从来不知道的模式。
en:These are two different subjects in our study.It&#39;s about a year&#39;s worth of data.The color represents different rooms they are in the house.This person on the left is living in their own home.This person on the right is actually living in an assisted living facility.I know this because look at how punctuated meal time iswhen they are no longer in their particular rooms here. Right?Now, this doesn&#39;t mean that much to you.But when we look at these cycles of dataover a longer period of time — and we&#39;re looking at everything frommotion around different rooms in the house,to sort of micro-motions that Shimmer picks up,about gait and stride length — these streams of dataare starting to tell us things about behavioral patternsthat we&#39;ve never understood before.
时间：14:00
zh-cn:你可以查看ORCATech.org-这跟鲸鱼没有关系，这是俄勒冈州的老龄化技术中心-得知更多的信息。问题是，Intel公司仍然是世界上独立生活技术研发的最大的资助者之一。我没有吹牛我们有多少资金，其他人实际注意到的老龄化和用于老龄化的资金很少，慢性疾病管理，独立生活在家。
en:You can go to ORCATech.org —it has nothing to do with whales, it&#39;s the Oregon Center for Aging and Technology —to see more about that.The problem is, Intel is still one of the largestfunders in the worldof independent living technology research.I&#39;m not bragging about how much we fund;it&#39;s how little anyone else actually pays attentionto aging and funds innovation on aging,chronic disease management and independent living in the home.
时间：14:24
zh-cn:所以，我的咒语，我第四个口号是：要么是10，000户家人或者是一无所有。我们需要驱使整个国家，即使不是国际间的，像弗雷明汉式心脏研究一样的做对独立生活技术的研究，这样10000连在一起的老年住户有着宽带，全套的医疗设施，一个我们可以开始试验的平台将大学基金资助的20位住户研究，变成大型的临床试验来证明这些科技的价值。所以说，要么是10000住户，要么是一无所有。这只是我们在Intel研究中所研究的一些住户。
en:So, my mantra here, my fourth slogan is:10,000 households or bust.We need to drivea national, if not international, Framingham-type heart studyof independent living technologies,where we have 10,000 elderly connected householdswith broadband, full medical characterization,and a platform by which we can start to experimentand turn these from 20-household anecdotal studiesthat the universities fund,to large clinical trials that prove out the value of these technologies.So, 10,000 households or bust.These are just some of the households that we&#39;ve done in the Intel studies.
时间：14:59
zh-cn:我的第五个，也是最后一个口号是：我试了两年，有过几次我们离改革医保非常近了就是将一些事改革成另一些事。从主体模型到个人健康模型，或者不仅仅是一场关于公众选择和我们将如果投资的辩论。我们如何投资医保其实并不重要。我们只是想把事情弄明白在接下来的10年内，然后试验。谁来支付这个并不重要，我们最好以一种根本不同的方式开始关心和对待家庭和病人以及家庭成员，和护理人员把他们当作互相协调的团队用这里已经有的全新技术以完全不同的方式来护理。
en:My fifth and final phrase:I have tried for two years,and there were moments when we were quite close,to make this healthcare reform bill be about reformfrom something and to something,from a mainframe modelto a personal health model,or to mean something more than just a debateabout the public option and how we&#39;re going to finance.It doesn&#39;t matter how we finance healthcare.We&#39;re going to figure something outfor the next 10 years, and try it.No matter who pays for it,we better start doing care in a fundamentally different wayand treating the home and the patientand the family member and the caregiversas part of these coordinated care teamsand using disruptive technologies that are already hereto do care in some pretty fundamental different ways.
时间：15:44
zh-cn:领导人应该站起来说，这是医保改革争论的结尾，“我们作为一个国家的目标是将百分之五十的保健从机构，诊所，医院和护理之家分离，移到家庭，在未来的10年内。”我们可以做到的。我们要从经济上这么做。我们要从道义上这么做。从生活品质上这么做。但是，这项医保改革是没有目标的。今天只是一团乱。
en:The president needs to stand up and say,at the end of a healthcare reform debate,&quot;Our goal as a country is to move 50 percent of careout of institutions, clinics, hospitals and nursing homes,to the home, in 10 years.&quot;It&#39;s achievable. We should do it economically,we should do it morally,and we should do it for quality of life.But there is no goal within this health reform.It&#39;s just a mess today.
时间：16:08
zh-cn:你知道，这是我给你们的最后的讲话。我们要如何完成这个像去月球一样的解决即将来临的Y2K+10的问题的目标？创新和技术不会成为万灵药，但是却是解决方法的一部分。如果我们不创造出一个个人健康运动，一个我们改革的方向，我们将无所去处。所以，我希望你把这场会议看成一种运动。谢谢大家（鼓掌）
en:So, you know, that&#39;s my last message to you.How do we set a going-to-the-moon goalof dealing with the Y2K +10 problem that&#39;s coming?It&#39;s not that innovation and technology is going to be themagic pill that cures all, but it&#39;s going to be part of the solution.And if we don&#39;t create a personal health movement,something that we&#39;re all aiming towards in reform,then we&#39;re going to move nowhere.So, I hope you&#39;ll turn this conference into that kind of movement forward.Thanks very much.(Applause)
