时间： 0:15
zh-cn:无线电力的早期设想主要来自于尼古拉·特斯拉大约在一百年前问题在于你并不需要无线输送电力甚至没有人想到过这一点他们想：“如果连做都做不出来，谁还会用呢？”因此，他开始着手于进行一系列探索工作建造特斯拉线圈。这座塔建立在20世纪初的长岛上此项设想在于，它将能够把电力输送到世界上任何一个角落我们也许永远不会知道这能否成功。事实上我认为依据联邦调查局的调查结果这个项目基于安全原因被关闭了这还是在20世纪早期的某些时候
en:Early visions of wireless poweractually were thought of by Nikola Teslabasically about 100 years ago.The thought thatyou wouldn&#39;t want to transfer electric power wirelessly,no one ever thought of that.They thought, &quot;Who would use it if you didn&#39;t?&quot;And so, in fact, he actually set aboutdoing a variety of things.Built the Tesla coil. This tower was builton Long Island back at the beginning of the 1900s.And the idea was, it was supposed to be able to transfer poweranywhere on Earth.We&#39;ll never know if this stuff worked. Actually, I think theFederal Bureau of Investigationtook it down for security purposes,sometime in the early 1900s.
时间： 0:57
zh-cn:但是我们从中发现我们喜欢上了这个项目（理念）想想到底我们有多喜欢它当你走出门，会发现在世界上有亿万美元被投资于基础设施中铺设电缆，将电力从其被创造的场所输送到被使用的场所另外一点是，我们喜欢电池对于我们来说，这在环境上的影响是每年在世界上约有四百亿节电池被废弃一般而言，电池仅仅是在几英寸或几英尺的范围内使用而且使用成本极低
en:But the one thing that did come out of electricityis that we love this stuff so much.I mean, think about how much we love this.If you just walk outside, there are trillions of dollarsthat have been invested in infrastructure around the world,putting up wires to get power from where it&#39;s createdto where it&#39;s used.The other thing is, we love batteries.And for those of us that have an environmental element to us,there is something like 40 billiondisposable batteries built every yearfor power that, generally speaking,is used within a few inches or a few feetof where there is very inexpensive power.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:所以在我继续演讲之前我想：“你们知道，我来自北美。我们在美国确实有一些声誉。”所以我想最好先看一看数字六的定义在北美被定义为“恶心”电缆真令人恶心，确实如此想一想，在这幅照片中的是否是你或是位于你桌下的什么东西另一件事是，电池也非常令人恶心它们真的很恶心你曾想过如何处理这些恶心的家伙吗？整整四百亿节而这正是在我们周围发生的一切它们被取下来，被拆分最终在此得到处理
en:So, before I got here,I thought, &quot;You know, I am from North America.We do have a little bit of a reputation in the United States.&quot;So I thought I&#39;d better look it up first.So definition number six is the North Americandefinition of the word &quot;suck.&quot;Wires suck, they really do.Think about it. Whether that&#39;s you in that pictureor something under your desk.The other thing is, batteries suck too.And they really, really do.Do you ever wonder what happens to this stuff?40 billion of these things built.This is what happens.They fall apart, they disintegrate,and they end up here.
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:当你谈论昂贵的电力时，即为电池或者其他东西提供电力时每千瓦小时成本大约是二三百英镑想一想世界上最贵的电力网络是这个的成千上万倍幸运地是，“恶心”的另一个定义就在其中它制造了真空但是，大自然憎恶真空
en:So when you talk about expensive power,the cost per kilowatt-hourto supply battery power to somethingis on the order of two to three hundred pounds.Think about that.The most expensive grid power in the worldis thousandths of that.So fortunately, one of the other definitionsof &quot;suck&quot; that was in there, it does create a vacuum.And nature really does abhor a vacuum.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:几年以前麻省理工的某些理论物理学家们提出了一种近距离无线传输电力的理念并且他们在约两米的距离时点亮了一盏六十瓦的电灯炮他们计算出的能源效率大约是50%事实上，这种利用能源的方式比电池要高出成百上千倍并且这已经可以点亮电灯泡了并且成功地实现了这就是那个真实的实验。所以你可以看到存在更大的线圈从他们的角度来看电灯泡只是一个简单的任务
en:What happened back a few years agowas a group of theoretical physicists at MITactually came up with this concept of transferring power over distance.Basically they were able to light a 60 watt light bulbat a distance of about two meters.It got about 50 percent of the efficiency —by the way, that&#39;s still a couple thousand timesmore efficient than a battery would be, to do the same thing.But were able to light that,and do it very successfully.This was actually the experiment. So you can seethe coils were somewhat larger.The light bulb was a fairly simple task, from their standpoint.
时间： 3:14
zh-cn:这全部来源于某位教授在半夜时连续三次被闹醒这是因为他夫人的手机一直在提示电量不足（低电量警告）所以他在想：“所有的插座都在墙上，为什么就不能弄点电到手机里，让我睡个安稳觉？”并且他的确实现了这个想法通过共振传输能量在标准变压器中有两卷线圈并且这两卷线圈之间靠得非常近事实上它们之间在传输电力—透过很短的距离，依靠电磁效应进行无线电力传输
en:This all came from a professorwaking up at night to the third night in a rowthat his wife&#39;s cellphone was beepingbecause it was running out of battery power.And he was thinking, &quot;With all the electricity that&#39;s out there in the walls,why couldn&#39;t some of that just come into the phone so I could get some sleep?&quot;And he actually came up with this conceptof resonant energy transfer.But inside a standard transformer are two coils of wire.And those two coils of wire are really, really close to each other,and actually do transfer powermagnetically and wirelessly, only over a very short distance.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:索尔贾希克博士所想到的是如何将变压器中线圈的距离增大以便在更远的距离中应用此项技术，这与歌剧歌手在房间的另一面摇晃玻璃窗的方式不同这是一种共振现象据此他获得了麦克阿瑟奖此奖项也被戏称为天才奖基于他的发现，在去年九月他得到了这一奖励
en:What Dr. Soljacic figured out how to dowas separate the coils in a transformerto a greater distance than the size of those transformersusing this technology, which is not dissimilarfrom the way an opera singer shatters a glass on the other side of the room.It&#39;s a resonant phenomenonfor which he actually received a MacArthur Fellowship Award,which is nicknamed the Genius Award,last September, for his discovery.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:那么它是如何工作的呢？想象一卷线圈，对于是工程师的你来说，它同时还有电容与之相连如果你能够让线圈发生共振它将会在不断改变的频率下在相当高的频率下产生脉冲如果你能够带来另一个与发电源足够近的设备并且它恰好能够在此频率下工作你可让它们形成耦合从而在它们之间传递磁能接下来你要做的只是在你需要电力时移动到磁性区域内，利用磁场将其转变成电能然后你就可以正常使用了
en:So how does it work?Imagine a coil. For those of you that are engineers,there&#39;s a capacitor attached to it too.And if you can cause that coil to resonate,what will happen is it will pulseat alternating current frequencies —at a fairly high frequency, by the way.And if you can bring another deviceclose enough to the source,that will only work at exactly that frequency,you can actually get them to do what&#39;s called strongly couple,and transfer magnetic energy between them.And then what you do is, you start out with electricity,turn it into magnetic field, take that magnetic field,turn it back into electricity,and then you can use it.
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:我所被问到的第一个问题是人们会担心手机的安全性问题你知道的，这个项目的安全性怎么样？我需要声明的第一点是这并非辐射性技术它并不会产生辐射这里并没有电场，只是磁场。它处于被我们称为源或者设备的影响范围之内并且事实上我们所使用的磁场其本质与地球磁场相同我们每天都生活在磁场环境中
en:Number one question I get asked.I mean, people are worried about cellphones being safe.You know. What about safety?The first thing is this is not a &quot;radiative&quot; technology.It doesn&#39;t radiate.There aren&#39;t electric fields here. It&#39;s a magnetic field.It stays within either what we call the source,or within the device.And actually, the magnetic fields we&#39;re usingare basically about the same as the Earth&#39;s magnetic field.We live in a magnetic field.
时间： 5:22
zh-cn:此项技术的另一个闪光点是它仅仅向与其在相同频率下工作的物体输送能源而这在自然界中几乎没可能让其发生在世界各地都有相应的政府机构他们会规范我们所做的一切并且他们严格的设定了辐射场标准今天我们在此向您们所展示的一切均处于这些规章限制之内
en:And the other thing that&#39;s pretty cool about the technology isthat it only transfers energy to things that work at exactly the same frequency.And it&#39;s virtually impossible in nature to make that happen.Then finally we have governmental bodies everywherethat will regulate everything we do.They&#39;ve pretty much set field exposure limits,which all of the things in the stuff I&#39;ll show you todaysort of sit underneath those guidelines.
时间： 5:44
zh-cn:移动电子产品家用电子产品这些在你桌子下的电线，我打赌每个人都有类似的经历，或者是那些电池这些是工业上的应用并且最后应用于电动汽车中这些电动汽车非常漂亮但是有谁愿意很麻烦的去充电呢？想象一下，当你驶入车库时—我们已经建立了某项系统来完成此工作当你驶入车库，汽车将会自动充电因为在地面上有一个插入墙中的垫子它让你的汽车能够安全、高效地充电当然这也可以被应用于其它领域中，如被移植的医疗设备人们不会再因为感染而死亡因为你能够将它密封起来信用卡，真空清洁器都可以使用
en:Mobile electronics.Home electronics.Those cords under your desk, I bet everybody herehas something that looks like that or those batteries.There are industrial applications.And then finally, electric vehicles.These electric cars are beautiful.But who is going to want to plug them in?Imagine driving into your garage — we&#39;ve built a system to do this —you drive into your garage, and the car charges itself,because there is a mat on the floor that&#39;s plugged into the wall.And it actually causes your car to charge safely and efficiently.Then there&#39;s all kinds of other applications. Implanted medical devices,where people don&#39;t have to die of infections anymoreif you can seal the thing up.Credit cards, robot vacuum cleaners.
时间： 6:25
zh-cn:我想做的仅是花上几分钟再向你们展示它是如何工作的我将会此向你展示相当精彩的内容你有一卷线圈线圈与射频放大器相连它（射频放大器）将会产生振荡磁场我们将它放在电视机的背后对了，我会让它看上去比实际稍微简单一点事实上这含有很多电子设备和秘诀并包括了很多与知识产权相关的问题但这里将会发生的是，磁场出现了它制造了一个磁场在另一面
en:So what I&#39;d like to do is take a couple minutesand show you, actually, how it works.And what I&#39;m going to do is to show you pretty much what&#39;s here.You&#39;ve got a coil.That coil is connected to an R.F. amplifierthat creates a high-frequency oscillating magnetic field.We put one on the back of the television set.By the way, I do make it look a little bit easier than it is.There&#39;s lots of electronics and secret sauceand all kinds of intellectual property that go into it.But then what&#39;s going to happen is, it will create a field.It will cause one to get createdon the other side.
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:如果一切顺利地话在十秒钟之内我们就会看到之所以是十秒是因为我们并不曾想到过，这里不是将电视插头插入到插座而仅仅是使用线圈一般而言你得绕过去并按下按钮。所以我想到我们弄一点设备在其中使其唤醒那些应该被唤醒的部件并告诉它这样做所以，我将它打开它在此产生了磁场它让此处产生了一个磁场正如我所说，在大约十秒钟内我们将会看到
en:And if the demo gods are willing,in about 10 seconds or so we should see it.The 10 seconds actually are because we —I don&#39;t know if any of you have ever thought about plugging a T.V. inwhen you use just a cord.Generally, you have to go over and hit the button. So I thoughtwe put a little computer in it that has to wake upto tell it to do that.So, I&#39;ll plug that in.It creates a magnetic field here.It causes one to be created out here.And as I said, in sort of about 10 secondswe should start to see ...
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:这是在商业上(鼓掌)已经商业化的彩色电视机想象一下，当你拿到这东西并准备挂在墙上时有多少人想将其挂在墙上？想一想。你并不需要让丑陋的线圈垂下来想象一下如果你能够摆脱它
en:This is a commercially —(Applause)available color television set.Imagine, you get one of these things. You want to hang them on the wall.How many people want to hang them on the wall?Think about it. You don&#39;t want those ugly cords coming down.Imagine if you can get rid of it.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:另一件我想谈的事是安全性问题目前在这里啥也没有发生，我很好并且我将再做一次，仅是为了安全原因几乎在同时，人们问道“你可以将它做到多小？能够让它变得足够小吗？”因为想起了索尔贾希克博士的最初想法来源于他夫人的手机铃声
en:The other thing I wanted to talk about was safety.So, there is nothing going on. I&#39;m okay.And I&#39;ll do it again, just for safety&#39;s sake.Almost immediately, though, people ask,&quot;How small can you make this? Can you make this small enough?&quot;Because remember Dr. Soljacic&#39;s original ideawas his wife&#39;s cellphone beeping.
时间： 8:23
zh-cn:所以我将会向你们展示一些东西在这样的事上我们有着平等的机会这是Google G1你知道的，刚出来的最新产品它运行着Android操作系统我想以前有人谈到过这玩意它很奇怪，里面有一块电池在它背后还贴有WiTricity的线圈电子产品摄像头能够移一下过来吗？很棒，这很不错你将会看到，当足够接近时你将会看到手机被无线充电(鼓掌)
en:So, I wanted to show you something.We&#39;re an equal opportunity designer of this sort of thing.This a Google G1.You know, it&#39;s the latest thing that&#39;s come out.It runs the Android operating system.I think I heard somebody talk about that before.It&#39;s odd. It has a battery.It also has coiled electronicsthat WiTricity has put into the back of it.And if I can get the camera —okay, great —you&#39;ll see, as I get sort of close...you&#39;re looking at a cellphone powered completely wirelessly.(Applause)
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:我想，你们中的一部分是苹果迷因此，你们知道要想利用苹果机内部的一些东西非常困难我们在它背后放了套线但是我们同样需要能够让它被唤醒你们那些有iPhone的人，也可以使用这种方式进行充电(鼓掌)
en:And I know some of you are Apple aficionados.So, you know they don&#39;t make it easy at Apple to get inside their phones.So we put a little sleeve on the back,but we should be able to get this guy to wake up too.And those of you that have an iPhone recognize the green center.(Applause)
时间： 9:20
zh-cn:诺基亚也一样你将会看到我们仅是在其背后放了一点小东西事实上它可能会响起来但是它们实际上只是利用无线电力让屏幕亮起来想象一下这能够放置的区域，它们能够到达到你的天花板它们也可以到地下，事实上他们还可以放在你桌子下所以你当你走进来时，或者当你回家时如果你拿有提包，它也能够在你的提包中工作你永远不用担心再将它插入插座这些事想想它能够为你所做的
en:And Nokia as well.You&#39;ll see that what we did there is put a little thing in the back, to do that,and it probably beeps, actually, as it goes on as well.But they typically use it to light up the screen.So, imagine these things could go ... they could go in your ceiling.They could go in the floor. They could go, actually, underneath your desktop.So that when you walk in or you come in from home,if you carry a purse, it works in your purse.You never have to worry about plugging these things in again.And think of what that would do for you.
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:所以我想在最后在最后的一页幻灯片中放上类似于纽约人杂志的经典插图可能有一点看不清楚图上写着&quot;它看上去像是某种无线技术&quot;非常感谢您们倾听(鼓掌)
en:So I think in closing,sort of in the immortal visions of The New Yorker magazine,I thought I&#39;d put up one more slide.And for those of you who can&#39;t read it, it says,&quot;It does appear to be some kind of wireless technology.&quot;So, thank you very much.(Applause)
