时间： 0:52
zh-cn:(锤声）
en:(Hammer)
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:（微波炉声）（笑声）
en:(Microwave beeps) (Laughter)
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:你们也许会同意这条路很不错。它是沥青做的，沥青是一种很好的材料，在上面开车很好但也不总是，特别是像今天这样的天气，下大雨的时候。在沥青路上会溅起很多水。尤其是如果你正骑着自行车，与那些车擦肩而过，就不太好啦。同时，沥青路会产生很大噪音。这种材料有点吵，如果我们要修的路紧邻城市，像荷兰的道路那样，我们就会希望噪音小一些。
en:You probably all agree with methat this is a very nice road.It&#39;s made of asphalt,and asphalt is a very nice material to drive on,but not always, especially not on these days as today,when it&#39;s raining a lot.Then you can have a lot of splash water in the asphalt.And especially if you then ride with your bicycle,and pass these cars, then that&#39;s not very nice.Also, asphalt can create a lot of noise.It&#39;s a noisy material,and if we produce roads like in the Netherlands,very close to cities, then we would like a silent road.
时间： 2:07
zh-cn:解决的办法就是使用多孔沥青来修路。多孔沥青这种材料用在荷兰的多数高速公路上，它有些小毛孔让水渗过去，雨水会流向旁边，路上驾车就容易了，也没有溅起的水花。噪音也会消失在这些毛孔里。因为它有很多空洞，相互抵消了噪音，所以路就很安静。
en:The solution for that is to make roadsout of porous asphalt.Porous asphalt, a material that we use nowin most of the highways in the Netherlands,it has pores and water can just rain through it,so all the rainwater will flow away to the sides,and you have a road that&#39;s easy to drive on,so no splash water anymore.Also the noise will disappear in these pores.Because it&#39;s very hollow, all the noise will disappear,so it&#39;s a very silent road.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:当然，它也有缺点，这种路的缺点是沥青可能会松脱。什么叫松脱？看看这条路路面上的石头脱落。开始一块，接着几块，越来越多，后来就——我就不演示了。（笑声）但它们会损坏你的挡风玻璃，你肯定不高兴。最后，这种松脱会带来越来越多的损害。有时候路面会出现坑槽哈，他早有准备。
en:It also has disadvantages, of course,and the disadvantage of this road is that raveling can occur.What is raveling? You see that in this roadthat the stones at the surface come off.First you get one stone, then several more,and more and more and more and more,and then they — well, I will not do that. (Laughter)But they can damage your windshield,so you&#39;re not happy with that.And finally, this raveling can also lead to more and more damage.Sometimes you can create potholes with that.Ha. He&#39;s ready.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:坑坑洼洼当然会变成问题，但我们有解决的办法。这里你看到的是这种材料上出现的损害。这是沥青，就像我说的，石头中间有少量的粘合剂。由于风化、紫外线、氧化等原因这种粘合剂，这种沥青，集料之间的黏胶会收缩，如果它收缩，就会有小裂纹，从集块开始会出现分层。如果你在这种路上行驶，你会带出这些集料—就是我们看到的。为了解决这个问题，我们考虑到了自我修复材料。如果我们能让这种材料自我修复，就有可能有解决方案。我们用的就是清洁厨具用的钢丝绒，钢丝绒可以裁成很小块，我们把这些小块混进沥青。所以现在的沥青有一些小钢丝绒在里面。你再需要一个像这样的机器，一个感应电机——它可以用来做饭。感应电机可以加热东西，尤其擅长加热钢铁所以我们要做的就是把钢铁加热，把沥青溶化，沥青就会流进那些小裂缝里，脱落的小石子就又被粘上了。
en:Potholes, of course, that can become a problem,but we have a solution.Here you see actually how the damage appears in this material.It&#39;s a porous asphalt, like I said, so you have onlya small amount of binder between the stones.Due to weathering, due to U.V. light, due to oxidation,this binder, this bitumen,the glue between the aggregates is going to shrink,and if it shrinks, it gets micro-cracks,and it delaminates from the aggregates.Then if you drive over the road, you take out the aggregates —what we just saw here.To solve this problem, we thought of self-healing materials.If we can make this material self-healing,then probably we have a solution.So what we can do is use steel wool just to clean pans,and the steel wool we can cut in very small pieces,and these very small pieces we can mix to the bitumen.So then you have asphaltwith very small pieces of steel wool in it.Then you need a machine, like you see here,that you can use for cooking — an induction machine.Induction can heat, especially steel; it&#39;s very good at that.Then what you do is you heat up the steel,you melt the bitumen,and the bitumen will flow into these micro-cracks,and the stones are again fixed to the surface.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:由于感应电机太大了拿不上来，我在这里就用微波炉演示了。微波炉跟感应电机的原理类似。我把样品放进去了，现在把它拿出来看看发生了什么事。这是样品现在的样子。
en:Today I use a microwave because I cannot takethe big induction machine here onstage.So a microwave is a similar system.So I put the specimen in, which I&#39;m now going to take outto see what happened.So this is the specimen coming out now.
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:我们实验室里有工业用的机器来加热样品。我们测试过很多样品，政府也看过我们的结果，他们决定，“这很有趣，我们应该试一下。”政府免费授权了一段高速公路给我们，在A58号上400米的距离，我们就在那里做了材料测试。这就是我们做的。你看到的就是做的实验路段，当然这段路近几年不会坏。我们在实践中确认了这点。我们在这段路上取了很多样品在实验室里进行各种测试。我们做了老化实验，加了很多负载，用我们的感应电机给它们加热，重复加热和测试。我们可以多次重复。事实上，这项实验得到的结论是如果我们每四年在这段路上用我们的加热机器——超大号微波炉我们要把这个机器搬到公路上用——我们每四年上这段路路面的寿命会加倍，当然会省很多钱。
en:So I said we have such an industrial machine in the labto heat up the specimens.We tested a lot of specimens there,and then the government, they actually saw our results,and they thought, &quot;Well, that&#39;s very interesting. We have to try that.&quot;So they donated to us a piece of highway,400 meters of the A58, where we had to makea test track to test this material.So that&#39;s what we did here. You see where we were making the test road,and then of course this road will last several yearswithout any damage. That&#39;s what we know from practice.So we took a lot of samples from this roadand we tested them in the lab.So we did aging on the samples,did a lot of loading on it, healed them with our induction machine,and healed them and tested them again.Several times we can repeat that.So actually, the conclusion from this research is thatif we go on the road every four yearswith our healing machine — this is the big versionwe have made to go on the real road —if we go on the road every four yearswe can double the surface life of this road,which of course saves a lot of money.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:所以，结论是我们制造了一种材料使用钢纤维，加了钢纤维使用感应能量（induction energy）有效的增加了路面的寿命，能使路面的寿命加倍，用这种简单的技巧就会省很多钱。
en:Well, to conclude, I can saythat we made a materialusing steel fibers, the addition of steel fibers,using induction energy to reallyincrease the surface life of the road,double the surface life you can even do,so it will really save a lot of money with very simple tricks.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:你会好奇是否会有效。我们看这个样品。现在还有点烫。事实上，我要先让它冷却下来才能向你们展示加热修复是否有效。但是要尝试一下。看，真的，修好了。谢谢！（掌声）
en:And now you&#39;re of course curious if it also worked.So we still have the specimen here. It&#39;s quite warm.Actually, it still has to cool down firstbefore I can show you that the healing works.But I will do a trial.Let&#39;s see. Yeah, it worked.Thank you.(Applause)
