时间： 0:16
zh-cn:在美国有个蛮有意思的现象最重要的医疗预算无论是私人捐助还是政府提供，都是拨给心血管疾病的其他的疾病根本无法比拟而在非洲，心血管疾病是致死率最高的一种疾病，却被彻底忽略了
en:It is interesting that in the United States,the most significant health-care budgetgoes to cardiovascular disease care, whether it&#39;s private or public.There&#39;s no comparison at all.In Africa — where it is a major killer — it is totally ignored.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:这种情况不应该存在，我们必须改变它一个国家的健康状况与发展水平是成正比的每年有1700万人死于心脏病3200万人死于突发心脏病和中风这其中绝大多数生活在发展中国家，而且以非洲最多在发展中国家，85%的全球性疾病会加重心血管疾病而西方国家没有这种情况然而90%的医疗资源却集中在西方国家
en:And that situation cannot be right. We must do something about it.A health status of a nation parallels development of that nation.17 million people die every year from heart disease.32 million heart attacks and strokes occur.Most of this is in developing countries, and the majority is in Africa.85 percent of global disease burden for cardiovascular diseaseis in developing countries — not in the West —and yet 90 percent of the resources are in the West.
时间： 1:10
zh-cn:哪些人属于危险人群？你们都是不仅仅非洲人民需要关注所有要在非洲驻扎一段时间的人都应该关注这个糟糕的状况你们是否有想过如果某天晚上回卧室时突然觉得胸闷气短、不停出汗，要怎么办这可是心脏病突发，你们会怎么处理飞回美国，德国，欧洲？不能这样，这样会死人的。50%的人在病发后24小时内未经治疗就会死亡
en:Who is at risk? People like you.It&#39;s not just the Africans that should be concerned about that.All friends of Africa, that will have reason to be in Africa at some point in time,should be very concerned about this deplorable situation.Has anyone here wondered what will happenif you go back to your room at night,and you start getting chest pains, shortness of breath, sweating?You&#39;re having a heart attack. What are you going to do?Will you fly back to the U.S., Germany, Europe?No, you will die. 50 percent will die within 24 hours, if not treated.
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:这就是事实看看这幅图最开始的时候美国和尼日利亚同样都有1000万人口等你们50岁的时候，尼日利亚估计已经变成空城，人都死了他们的预期寿命只有47岁不是因为小时候得病死了而是因为当他们到45岁至50岁这期间时撑不下去了但这才是他们产能最大的时期他们本应该能为非洲的发展贡献力量，可人却已经不在了父母去世是导致贫穷的最快方式如果不能保证父母的生命那么孩子的生命也岌岌可危
en:This is what&#39;s going on.In a look at the map of the U.S. — the graph here,10 million people here, 10 million here.By the time you get to 50, it&#39;s almost no one left in Nigeria —life expectancy is 47.It&#39;s not because some people don&#39;t survive childhood illnesses —they do — but they do not survive after the time that they reachabout 45 years old and 50 years old.And those are the times they&#39;re most productive.Those are the times that they should be contributingto Africa&#39;s development. But they&#39;re not there.The best way to spiral into a cycle of poverty is to kill the parents.If you cannot secure the parents,you cannot guarantee the security of the African child.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:心脏病的诱因有哪些众所周知，所以我就不多说了大概就是这些：高血压，糖尿病，肥胖症，缺乏锻炼，这些都是最常见的诱因在坦桑尼亚，30%的人有高血压其中20%在治疗中但只有不到1%的人经历过完整、彻底的治疗如果仅治疗非洲人的高血压每年就能挽回25万人的生命，这个数字很可观
en:What are the risk factors?It&#39;s very well known. I&#39;m not going to spend a lot of time on those.These are just for information:hypertension, diabetes, obesity, lack of exercise. The usual suspects.Right here in Tanzania, 30 percent of individuals have hypertension.20 percent are getting treated.Only less than one percent are adequately treated.If we can treat hypertension alone in Africa,we&#39;ll save 250,000 lives a year. That&#39;s quite significant!
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:高血压其实蛮好治疗的。看看毛里求斯人民的处境在未来短短的8年内，艾滋病和疟疾都不会造成什么重大影响请不要再重蹈我们对待艾滋病和疟疾的覆辙在未来短短的8年内，非传染性疾病将会成为非洲大陆上的主要致死疾病
en:Easy to treat. Look at the situation in Mauritius.In eight short years — we&#39;re here talking about HIV, malaria,which is all good.We cannot make the mistakes we&#39;ve made with malaria and HIV.In eight short years, non-communicable diseaseswill become the leading causes of death in Africa.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:我们必须牢记这一点，我们不能像这样对待病人这是一所典型的非洲医院。我们不能指望那些精英他们都离开非洲，前往美国，德国或者英国也不能就指望他国援助现在的各个国家都自顾不暇就拿9/11来说，美国国内一片慌乱，自然把精力都集中在国内事务上以妥善解决这些问题帮助非洲并不是他们的责任但是我的责任，我要努力处理好这些问题如果他们能够提供帮助，那当然好，但这并不能达到我的期望非洲越来越低的医疗保健指数和越来越少人关注的医疗研究状况必须改变，我们不能一直停滞不前如果办法不奏效，我们必须找到其他有用的办法替代
en:That is something to keep in mind. We can&#39;t deal with it with situations like this.This is a typical African hospital. We can&#39;t depend on the elites —they go to USA, Germany, U.K. for treatment. Unbelievable.You can&#39;t depend on foreign aid alone.Here is the situation: countries are turning inwards.Post-9/11, [the] United States has had a lot of troubleto deal with, their own internal issues.So, they spend their money trying to fix those problems.You can&#39;t rightly — it&#39;s not their responsibility,it is my responsibility. I have to take care of my own problems.If they help, that&#39;s good! But that is not my expectation.These worsening indices of health care or health studies in Africademand a new look. We cannot keep on doing thingsthe way we&#39;ve always done them.If they have not worked, we have to look for alternative solutions.
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:我要说的是解决方法，如何改善当前这个局面这是令我们头疼的问题几年前，我们就开始研究这方面的问题每个人都知道症结所在，但没人知道对症下药我们决定要把钱花在刀刃上当有人免费援助发展中国家的时候每个人都兴奋不已.但说到持续投资，却没人回应这样是筹不到钱的我在美国有从事医疗保健方面的业务我住在田纳西州的纳什维尔，那里是美国医疗保健的中心在那从事医疗保健的企业筹款是件是件很容易的事但如果告诉投资者我们打算在尼日利亚开展这项业务，没人予以理睬其实这种想法是完全错误的，现场的观众，如果你们想要帮助非洲，就要持续投资
en:I&#39;m here to talk to you about solutions.This has been — what has been a difficult sign to some of us.Several years ago, we started thinking about it.Everyone knows the problem. No one knows what the solutions are.We decided that we needed to put our money where our mouth is.Everyone is ready to throw in money,in terms of free money aid to developing countries.Talk about sustainable investment, no one is interested.You can&#39;t raise money.I have done businesses in healthcare in the United States —I live in Nashville, Tennessee, health care capital of America.[It&#39;s] very easy to raise money for health-care ventures.But start telling them, you know,we&#39;re going to try to do it in Nigeria — everyone runs away.That is totally wrong. Those of you in the audience here,if you want to help Africa, invest money in sustainable development.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:我来带你们看看心脏研究所一天的运作情况让你们了解我们所做的然后我再说点有关这个我们在发展中国家建立了一所足以媲美世界上顶级医疗保健中心的高质量的医疗中心这个中心现在设有25个岗位，每个上岗人员都在美国、加拿大活英国经过培训，并取得证书我们拥有范德毕特大学,克利夫兰诊所，甚至是美国其他所有的地方都能做的模态分析系统但我们的收费只有美国的十分之一（掌声）
en:Let me lead you through a day in the life of the Heart Institute,so you get a glimpse of what we do,and I&#39;ll talk a little bit more about it.What we have done is to show that high-quality health care,comparable to the best anywhere in the world,can be done in a developing country environment.We have 25 positions right now — all of them trained,board certified in the USA, Canada or Britain.We have every modality that can be done in Vanderbilt,Cleveland Clinic — everywhere in the U.S. —and we do it for about 10 percent of the costthat you will need to do those things in the United States.(Applause)
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:另外，我们还有一个规定，不能以支付能力为由将人拒之门外我们帮助所有需要帮助的人（掌声）你只有1美元或2美元，都没关系让我告诉你们这一切是如何办到的
en:Additionally, we have a policythat no one is ever turned away because of ability to pay.We take care of everyone.(Applause)Whether you have one dollar, two dollars — it doesn&#39;t matter.And I will tell you how we&#39;re able to do it.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:确保选择正确的仪器选择具有模块化单元的仪器。各个单元都能实现多模融合（不同成像方式的图像融合）,含有模块化组件。易于修理，因此我们选择的仪器都是耐用的在我们这里，培训是重点我们确保培训这一环节能够不断地传承下去，不久的将来，我们这一任将会老死离去，但除非我们找到继任者，将我们的志愿继承发扬，否则问题依然存在
en:We make sure that we select our equipment properly.We go for modular units. Units that have multi-modality functionshave modular components. Easy to repair, and because of that,we do not take things that are not durable and cannot last.We emphasize training,and we make sure that this process is regenerative.Very soon we will all be dead and gone, but the problems will stay,unless we have people taking over from where we stopped.
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:我们确保自产自用不是从别处购买单位计量的放射性药物而是买来生产机器进行内部生产，这样就降低了成本因此，在美国要花250美元才能买到单位计量的放射性药物在我们这边内部生产的只要花2美元（掌声）
en:We made sure that we produced some things ourselves.We do not buy unit doses of radiopharmaceuticals.We get the generators from the companies.We manufacture them in-house, ourselves. That keeps the costs down.So, for a radiopharmaceutical in the U.S. —that you&#39;ll get a unit dose for 250 dollars —when we&#39;re finished manufacturing it in-house,we come at a price of about two dollars.(Applause)
时间： 8:15
zh-cn:我们意识到要缩短富国和穷国的差距必须通过教育和科技如果能够取得发展，所有这些刚刚说到的问题都会迎刃而解科技起的作用举足轻重，我们又是如何利用科技的？事实证明：自我保健具有成本效益能够拓展农村市场的机会通过巧妙地运用自我保健专业知识
en:We recognize that the only way to bridge the gapbetween the rich and poor countriesis through education and technology.All these problems we&#39;re talking about —if we bring development, they will all disappear.Technology is a great equalizer. How do we make it work?It&#39;s been proved: self-care is cost-effective.It extends opportunity to the rural centers,and we can use expertise in a very smart way.
时间： 8:43
zh-cn:我们建立了自己的医疗中心目前我们在加勒比海有三家医疗中心第四家的开业正在筹备中并且我们决定要进军非洲在尼日利亚的哈科特港我们要建立西非心脏研究所，这个项目将在接下来的几个月内启动，我们希望2008-09年就能正式投入运营我们还会继续筹划更多的研究中心这个模式适用于每个疾病治疗流程所有的环节，所有的研究中心，通过交换式集线器连接到一个中央服务器上所有的图像都能在视图站中看到我们设计了这个远程医疗方案，这是我们的专利我们愿意跟其他人分享这一切并同时使他们保持盈利
en:This is the way our centers are set up.We currently have three locations in the Caribbean,and we&#39;re planning a fourth one.And we have now decided to go into Africa.We will be doing the West African Heart Institutein Port Harcourt, Nigeria. That project will be startingwithin the next few months. We hope to open in 2008-09.And we will do other centers.This model can be adapted to every disease process.All the units, all the centers, are linkedthrough a switched hub to a central server,and all the images are populated to review stations.And we designed this telemedicine solution. It&#39;s proprietary to us,and we are happy to share what we have learned with anyonewho is interested in doing it. You can still be profitable.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:只需点击鼠标远程医疗系统就能连接上世界各地的医学专家现在我们看看这整套流程这是心脏研究所，世界各地的医生都能登录我可以在瑞士打电话给你，“请登录我们的系统，看看琼斯太太的诊断图，告诉我们你的建议。”医生们就会据此给出一些讯息有了这些专家的讯息，病人的治疗就更有保障病人们不需要长途跋涉不会因为缺乏专家意见而焦躁不安
en:We make sure that the telemedicine platform gives accessto expert medical specialists anywhere in the world,just by a click of the button.I&#39;ll lead you through, to see how this happens.This is at the Heart Institute. The doctors from anywhere can log in.I can call you in Switzerland and say, &quot;Listen, go into our system.Look at Mrs. Jones. Look at the study, tell me what you think.&quot;They&#39;ll give me that information,and we&#39;ll make the care of the patient better.The patient doesn&#39;t have to travel.He doesn&#39;t have to experience the anxiety of not knowingbecause of limited expertise.
时间：10:13
zh-cn:我们还有一套电子病历系统我很自豪地告诉你们，在美国，80%的医疗手段中还没能采取这些应用在研究中心的技术但是美国人有条件如果纳什维尔治不了，可以去伯明翰只有两小时的路程而已；如果克利夫兰治不了，可以去辛辛那提，但非洲人民没有这种条件因此我们只能通过科技来改变这种状况同时降低看病的成本我们要把业务拓展到农村地区，并且使当地人都能负担得起每个人都能得到治疗
en:We also use [an] electronic medical record system.I&#39;m happy to say that the things we have implemented —80 percent of U.S. practices do not have them, and yet the technology is there.But you know, they have that luxury.Because if you can&#39;t get it in Nashville, you can travel to Birmingham,two hours away, and you&#39;ll get it. If you can&#39;t get it in Cleveland,you can go to Cincinnati. We don&#39;t have that luxury,so we have to make it happen.When we do it, we will put the cost of care down.And we&#39;ll extend it to the rural centers and make it affordable.And everyone will get the care they deserve.
时间：10:52
zh-cn:但我们意识到仅仅依靠科技是不够的预防也是我们所强调的解决方案但一定要是切合实际的你可以跟病人说将要进行的治疗花费高昂可这么说只能导致他们回家，因为负担不起他们需要活命，需要养家糊口我们推荐运动，因为运动是最有效、最简单的预防疾病的方法每年的三月和四月是“行走月”我们将病人分组，让他们互相竞赛减重最多的那组将得到奖励通过计步器计算出的行走最多的那组也会得到奖励，我们一直支持这项活动同时我们也鼓励病人带上孩子一起运动从小就给孩子灌输锻炼身体预防疾病的观念，一旦孩子们有了这种观念
en:It cannot just be technology, we recognize that.Prevention must be part of the solution — we emphasize that.But, you know, you have to tell people what can be done.It&#39;s not possible to tell people to do what is going to be expensive,and they go home and can&#39;t do it.They need to be alive, they need to feed.We recommend exercise as the most effective, simple, easy thing to do.We have had walks every year — every March, April.We form people into groups and make them go into challenges.Which group loses the most weight, we give them prizes.Which groups record more walking distance by pedometer,we give them prizes. We do this constantly.We encourage them to bring children.That way we start exposing the children from very early on,on what these issues are. Because once they learn it,
时间：11:46
zh-cn:他们就会坚持锻炼。通过开展这项活动仅在牙买加，我们就创造了至少100个技术类工作这些医师经过特别培训，具有专业的医学知识我们挽回了1000多个十分贫困的病人的生命包括为四个患有完全性心传导阻滞的病人免费提供心脏起搏器。对于了解心脏病学的人来说完全性心传导阻滞意味着濒临死亡如果没有心脏起搏器，病人将会死亡能帮助病人我们觉得很欣慰
en:they will stay with it. In doing this we have createdat least 100 skilled jobs in Jamaica alone,and these are physicians with expertise and special training.We have taken care of over 1,000 indigent patients that could have died,including four free pacemakers in patientswith complete heart block. For those that understand cardiology,complete heart block means certain death.If you don&#39;t get this pacemaker, you will be dead.So we are pleased with that.
时间：12:14
zh-cn:因为病人们无需飞到迈阿密活亚特兰大看病我们间接替牙买加政府省了500万美元而且我们有能力挽救很多生命到今年末，我们在贫困病人的治疗上已经投入了100多万美元。前四个月投入34万美元平均下来每月8万5。政府就没法给予这么大力度的支持需要资金的地方很多政府只能拨款给其他更需要的方面。但我们就不同了，我们能够支持这方面的发展人们问：”你们怎么能做到？” 我们就是做到了至少4000个打算前往迈阿密看病的有钱人承认他们实际上没去因为加勒比海有一个心脏研究所如果他们去迈阿密，那么花费将是现在同等医疗水平的8至10倍，他们很开心可以将省下来的这笔钱花在家庭开销上省下的这笔钱可以囊括至少4个付不起医药费的病人的治疗费用（掌声）
en:Indirectly, we have saved the government of Jamaica five million dollarsfrom people that would have gone to Miami or Atlanta for care.And we&#39;ve hopefully saved a lot of lives.By the end of this year, we would have contributed over one million dollarsin indigent care. In the first four months, it&#39;s been 340,000 dollars,averaging 85,000 dollars a month. The government will not do that,because they have competing needs.They need to put resources elsewhere. But we can still do it.People say, &quot;How can you do that?&quot; This is how we can do that.At least 4,000 rich Jamaicans that were heading to Miami for treatmenthave self-confessed that they did not go to Miamibecause of the Heart Institute of the Caribbean.And, if they went to Miami, they will spend significantly more —eight to 10 times more. And they feel happy spending it at home,getting the same quality of care.And for that money — for every one patient that has the money to pay,it gives us an opportunity to take care of at least four peoplethat do not have the resources to pay.(Applause)
时间：13:30
zh-cn:但关键是，我们必须持之以恒地支持这方面事业我们强调培训，培训是十分重要的我们不满足于现状，我们与牙买加的理工大学建立了合作关系现在我手头上就有一个合同我们开展一个生物医学工程项目这样就能在当地进行培训，让工作人员学会修理仪器我们就不用处理机器淘汰之类的问题我们还开展了辅助医疗技术培训例如超声心动图，心脏超声检查等通过这类培训能够鞭策员工因为他们能够获得医学成像学士学位现在我想让你们听听我们的培训学员是怎么说的
en:For this to work, this progress must be sustainable.So, we emphasize training. Training is critical.We have gone further: we have formed a relationshipwith the University of Technology, Jamaica,where I now have an appointment.And we are starting a biomedical engineering program,so that we will train people locally, who can repair that equipment.That way we&#39;re not going to deal with obsolescence and all those kinds of issues.We&#39;re also starting ancillary health-care technology training programs —training people in echocardiography, cardiac ultrasound,those kinds of things. Now, with that kind of training,it gives people motivation.Because now they will get a bachelors degree in medical imagingand all that kind of stuff. In the process, I want you to just hearfrom the trainees themselves what it has meant for them.
时间：14:23
zh-cn:（视频）Jason Topping 医生：我是Jason Topping来自西印度大学医院是重症监护方面的高级麻醉医师2006年来到这个心脏研究所因为我有麻醉学和重症监护方面的选修课程我在心脏研究所待了3个月我的同事都对我在这里所受的培训给予肯定我认为现在超声心动图及其在我们的实际应用中的关注率日益增加
en:(Video) Dr. Jason Topping: My name is Jason Topping.I&#39;m a senior resident in anesthesia in intensive careat the University Hospital of the West Indies.I came to the Heart Institute in 2006,as part of my elective in my anesthesia and intensive care program.I spent three months at the Heart Institute.There&#39;s been no doubt around my colleaguesabout the utility of the training I received here,and I think there&#39;s been an increased interest now in —particularly in echocardiography and its use in our setting.
时间：14:55
zh-cn:Sharon Lazarus: 我是加勒比海心脏研究所的一名超声心动图操作员在过去的两年里，我一直都在所里接受培训我认为研究所在牙买加引进的这方面的培训对诊断心脏疾病能起到非常重要的作用
en:Sharon Lazarus: I am an echocardiographer at the Heart Institute of the Caribbean,since the past two years. I received training at this institution.I think this aspect of training in cardiologythat the Heart Institute of the Caribbean has introduced in Jamaicais very important in terms of diagnosing cardiac diseases.
时间：15:23
zh-cn:但是最关键的是我们的培训能够进行并且持续下去为人们提供帮助谁说穷人就不能享受最好的治疗谁规定你就得扮演上帝，帮助他人我做不了决定，但我的任务就是确保每个人无论贫富贵贱，都能享有同等机会接受最好的治疗我们下一步计划是在尼日利亚哈科特港开一个西非心脏研究所当然也会在其他地区设立同样的研究机构例如透析治疗研究所任何人如果对医疗保健方面感兴趣我们乐于协助你们，并分享我们的经验
en:Ernest Madu: The lesson in this is that it can be done, and it can be sustained,and you can make it possible for everyone.Who are we to decide that poor people cannot get the best care?When have you been appointed to play God?It is not my decision. My job is to make sure that every person,no matter what fate has assigned to you, will have the opportunityto get the best quality health care in life.Next stop is West African Heart Institute,that we are going to be doing in Port Harcourt, Nigeria,as I said before. We will do other centers across West Africa.We will extend the same system into other areas,like dialysis treatment.And anyone who is interested in doing it in any health care situation,we will be happy to assist you and tell you how we&#39;ve done it,
时间：16:19
zh-cn:帮助你们达成。如果大家共同致力于这方面非洲的医疗保健水平定将发生翻天覆地的变化非洲养育了我们，是时候轮到我们回报它了我将投身于改善非洲的医疗保健事业，志同道合的朋友们欢迎你们加入我，让我们同行。谢谢（掌声）
en:and how you can do it. If we do this,we can change the face of health care in Africa.Africa has been good to us; it is time for us to give back to Africa.I am going. Those who want to come,I welcome you to come along with me.Thank you.(Applause)
