时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我希望大家能够想一下对于在二十世纪八十年代的暴力中遭受迫害的妇女来说这是怎样的一个突破她们会被送进急诊室至于受伤的原因，警察称之为“恋人间的争端”这时我看到的是一个被殴打的妇女鼻子被打伤，手腕被打折以及她肿胀的眼作为活动家，我们会拿起我们的拍立得拍下她的照片等个九十秒再把照片给她这样，这个妇女就有了去法院起诉的证据我们使得看不见的东西得以显形
en:I want you to imaginewhat a breakthrough this wasfor women who were victims of violencein the 1980s.They would come into the emergency roomwith what the police would call &quot;a lovers&#39; quarrel,&quot;and I would see a woman who was beaten,I would see a broken nose and a fractured wristand swollen eyes.And as activists, we would take our Polaroid camera,we would take her picture,we would wait 90 seconds,and we would give her the photograph.And she would then havethe evidence she needed to go to court.We were making what was invisible visible.
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:我做这个三十年了我成了致力于终结向妇女儿童施暴的社会运动的一份子这些年我保持着绝对的热情并且这么坚信着：这种暴力并不是无可避免的这种暴力是习得的，既然它是习得的它就可以被戒除，可以被阻止（掌声）
en:I&#39;ve been doing this for 30 years.I&#39;ve been part of a social movementthat has been working on endingviolence against women and children.And for all those years,I&#39;ve had an absolutely passionateand sometimes not popular beliefthat this violence is not inevitable,that it is learned, and if it&#39;s learned,it can be un-learned, and it can be prevented.(Applause)
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:为什么我这么坚信？因为这是真的这道理的确是对的在一九九三至二零壹零年间针对成年妇女的家庭暴力在美国下降了百分之六十四这是个很棒的消息（掌声）
en:Why do I believe this?Because it&#39;s true.It is absolutely true.Between 1993 and 2010,domestic violence among adult womenin the United Stateshas gone down by 64 percent,and that is great news.(Applause)
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:百分之六十四……那么，这是怎么做到的呢？我们也很好奇三十年前，妇女被殴打被跟踪，被强奸没人谈论她们的遭遇对她们而言社会毫无正义可言作为一个活动家，这样的社会并不足够好改良运动的第一步是我们集合起来创造了这个不同寻常的地下网络身处这个网络的伟大的女人们开辟了一些庇护所她们打开了收容所，或者开放她们的房子他们打开他们的家这样妇女和儿童就有了容身之所来确保安全然后我们做了什么？我们买面包，洗车做任何能做的事来募集资金直到某天我们说是时候去联邦政府要求他们为我们这种伟大的济民工作拨款对不对？（掌声）
en:Sixty-four percent. Now, how did we get there?Our eyes were wide open.Thirty years ago, women were beaten,they were stalked, they were raped,and no one talked about it.There was no justice.And as an activist, that was not good enough.And so step one on this journeyis we organized,and we created this extraordinaryunderground network of amazing womenwho opened shelters,and if they didn&#39;t open a shelter,they opened their homeso that women and children could be safe.And you know what else we did?We had bake sales, we had car washes,and we did everything we could do to fundraise,and then at one point we said,you know, it&#39;s time that we wentto the federal governmentand asked them to pay for theseextraordinary services that are saving people&#39;s lives.Right? (Applause)
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:之后，第二步我们知道我们需要修缮法律所以我们去了华盛顿为第一部法律进行游说我仍记得我穿过国会大厦的大厅那时我三十岁，生活充满目标我不能想象什么人会对如此重要的的一条法律提出异议但我才三十，还太天真我听到一位议员提出了截然不同的观点你知道他称这条重要的法律叫什么吗他称之为拿婚姻找乐&quot;《拿婚姻找乐法》&quot;女士们先生们，那是一九八四年的美国我真希望那时有微博这玩意（笑声）
en:And so, step number two,we knew we needed to change the laws.And so we went to Washington,and we lobbied for the first piece of legislation.And I remember walking through the hallsof the U.S. Capitol,and I was in my 30s, and my life had purpose,and I couldn&#39;t imaginethat anybody would ever challengethis important piece of legislation.I was probably 30 and naive.But I heard about a congressmanwho had a very, very different point of view.Do you know what he calledthis important piece of legislation?He called it the Take the Fun Out of Marriage Act.The Take the Fun Out of Marriage Act.Ladies and gentlemen, that was in 1984in the United States, and I wish I had Twitter.(Laughter)
时间： 3:56
zh-cn:十年后，经过大量艰苦公关我们最终通过了《暴力对待妇女法》这改变生活的法令这拯救诸多生命的法令（掌声）谢谢我身为这项工作的一份子感到很自豪这项工作改变了法律使得百万计的美金流入本地社会
en:Ten years later, after lots of hard work,we finally passed the Violence Against Women Act,which is a life-changing actthat has saved so many lives. (Applause)Thank you.I was proud to be part of that work,and it changed the lawsand it put millions of dollars into local communities.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:它还起了什么作用呢？收集数据我必须得说，我很痴迷于数据事实上，我是个数据狂人我能确信在座很多人和我一样我是个数据狂人原因是我想确认如果我花了钱，这项工作会起效如果不起效，我们就得改换主意了
en:And you know what else it did? It collected data.And I have to tell you, I&#39;m passionate about data.In fact, I am a data nerd.I&#39;m sure there are a lot of data nerds here.I am a data nerd,and the reason for that is I want to make surethat if we spend a dollar, that the program works,and if it doesn&#39;t work, we should change the plan.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:我还想说另一件事我们不想靠刑罚解决这个问题通过建立更多的监狱或者再建许多庇护所而是为了使妇女拥有经济权力以及治愈受伤的儿童并且防止作恶
en:And I also want to say one other thing:We are not going to solve this problemby building more jailsor by even building more shelters.It is about economic empowerment for women,it is about healing kids who are hurt,and it is about prevention with a capital P.
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:之后，第三步我们知道，我们要想持续推动这项计划我们必须加大宣传我们必须提升存在感我们要对公众呼吁所以我们来到广告委员会请求他们帮助我们建立一个公共教育运动我们还把目光投向加拿大澳大利亚，巴西以及非洲的一部分我们带着这样的知识创建了第一个国家公共教育运动我们称之为“绝不为家庭暴力找理由”看看我们的一段录像：
en:And so, step number three on this journey:We know, if we&#39;re going tokeep making this progress,we&#39;re going to have to turn up the volume,we&#39;re going to have to increase the visibility,and we&#39;re going to have to engage the public.And so knowing that, we wentto the Advertising Council,and we asked them to help usbuild a public education campaign.And we looked around the world to Canadaand Australia and Brazil and parts of Africa,and we took this knowledgeand we built the first nationalpublic education campaigncalled There&#39;s No Excuse for Domestic Violence.Take a look at one of our spots.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:（视频）男人：晚饭呢？
en:(Video) Man: Where&#39;s dinner?
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:女人：我想你已经回家好几个小时了，我就把东西都收走了，所以……
en:Woman: Well, I thought you&#39;d be home a couple hours ago, and I put everything away, so—
时间： 5:44
zh-cn:男人：这啥？比萨饼？女人：你要是刚刚给我打个电话，我就……
en:Man: What is this? Pizza.Woman: If you had just called me,I would have known—
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:男人：晚饭呢？就这玩意？女人：亲，别这么大声……女人：不要……放开我！！
en:Man: Dinner? Dinner ready is a pizza?Woman: Honey, please don&#39;t be so loud.Please don&#39;t—Let go of me!
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:男人：滚进厨房！女人：不！救命！
en:Man: Get in the kitchen!Woman: No! Help!
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:男人：来点疼的如何？（猛打女人）
en:Man: You want to see what hurts? (Slaps woman)
时间： 5:57
zh-cn:男人：疼吧？啊？疼吧！（打碎玻璃）
en:That&#39;s what hurts! That&#39;s what hurts!(Breaking glass)
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:女人：救救我！
en:Woman: Help me!
时间： 6:03
zh-cn:【孩子就坐在一边看着，你的借口是什么？】
en:[&quot;Children have to sit by and watch.What&#39;s your excuse?&quot;]
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:E.S. :当我们推进这项运动时推动这一运动，辛普森由于谋害他的妻子和妻子的朋友而被逮捕了我们了解到他有很久的家庭暴力历史。媒体开始关注家暴家暴的故事不再被避而不谈事实上，是从不被察觉，登上了头版我们的广告覆盖了电视广播女人们第一次开始讲述她们的故事时间对社会运动很重要我们也抓紧了时间来说点实际的在一九八零年之前，你知道纽约时报中有多少文章是关于家暴的？一百五十八在二十一世纪初，这个数字超过了七千很显然，我们改变了社会
en:Esta Soler: As we were in the processof releasing this campaign,O.J. Simpson was arrestedfor the murder of his wife and her friend.We learned that he had a long historyof domestic violence.The media became fixated.The story of domestic violencewent from the back page,but actually from the no-page, to the front page.Our ads blanketed the airwaves,and women, for the first time,started to tell their stories.Movements are about moments,and we seized this moment.And let me just put this in context.Before 1980, do you have any ideahow many articles were in The New York Timeson domestic violence?I&#39;ll tell you: 158.And in the 2000s, over 7,000.We were obviously making a difference.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:但我们仍旧遗落了重要的一环所以，第四步，我们和男人们订约没有这另一半“局外人”（男人）我们不可能解决这个问题我说过我是个数据狂人国家调查显示男人们觉得被告发了但并没有被邀请进入这次对话所以我们想，如何把男人拉入这次对话？怎样才能让男人谈论有关反妇女儿童暴力的话题我的一个男性朋友把我拉到一边说：“你们想让男人谈论有关反妇女儿童暴力的话题？不可能。”（笑声）我得对男观众道歉事实上你们也发声了但他说：“你知道他们做什么吗？他们对他们的孩子说，作为父亲，作为导师。”这就是我们做的我们拜访男人并建立了一个项目有这么一件事永远留在我的心中一个篮球教练在对满屋子的男运动员说话男运动员们过着不同生活他在说引导男孩到男人、改变更衣室文化、使男人们和谐相处的重要性突然之间，他看了房间后面他看到了他的女儿他叫出他女儿的名字，米歇尔，他说，&quot;米歇尔，来这里.&quot;米歇尔九岁，有点害羞她来到父亲身边教练说，&quot;坐在我身边&quot;她就坐在他旁边。他给了她一个大大的拥抱，他说，&quot;有人问我为什么我做这项工作。我做这项工作，因为我是她爸爸，我不愿任何人伤害她的人。&quot;作为一个母亲，我能理解我知道大学校园有何其多的已知但未被报道的性袭击所以报告说，我们为成年妇女做了很多。我们得为我们的孩子们做得更好。我们就这么做了。我们必须这么做。（掌声）
en:But we were still missing a critical element.So, step four: We needed to engage men.We couldn&#39;t solve this problemwith 50 percent of the population on the sidelines.And I already told you I&#39;m a data nerd.National polling told us that men felt indictedand not invited into this conversation.So we wondered, how can we include men?How can we get men to talk aboutviolence against women and girls?And a male friend of mine pulled me asideand he said, &quot;You want men to talk about violenceagainst women and girls. Men don&#39;t talk.&quot;(Laughter)I apologize to the men in the audience.I know you do.But he said, &quot;Do you know what they do do?They do talk to their kids.They talk to their kids as parents, as coaches.&quot;And that&#39;s what we did.We met men where they were atand we built a program.And then we had this one eventthat stays in my heart foreverwhere a basketball coachwas talking to a room filled with male athletesand men from all walks of life.And he was talking about the importanceof coaching boys into menand changing the culture of the locker roomand giving men the tools tohave healthy relationships.And all of a sudden, he lookedat the back of the room,and he saw his daughter,and he called out his daughter&#39;s name, Michaela,and he said, &quot;Michaela, come up here.&quot;And she&#39;s nine years old, and she was kind of shy,and she got up there,and he said, &quot;Sit down next to me.&quot;She sat right down next to him.He gave her this big hug, and he said,&quot;People ask me why I do this work.I do this work because I&#39;m her dad,and I don&#39;t want anyone ever to hurt her.&quot;And as a parent, I get it.I get it,knowing that there are so many sexual assaultson college campusesthat are so widespread and so under-reported.We&#39;ve done a lot for adult women.We&#39;ve got to do a better job for our kids.We just do. We have to. (Applause)
时间： 9:15
zh-cn:我们从拍立得时期开始走了很长的路技术一直是我们的伙伴移动电话改变了全球它赋予妇女权力Facebook 和 Twitter 和谷歌和 YouTube和所有帮助我们组织的社会媒体以强大的方式叙述着我们的故事。在座的观众中有人作为组织者帮助我们构建应用程序以及搭建平台我要说，谢谢你们。真的。我为你们鼓掌。（掌声）
en:We&#39;ve come a long waysince the days of the Polaroid.Technology has been our friend.The mobile phone is a global game changerfor the empowerment of women,and Facebook and Twitter and Google and YouTubeand all the social media helps us organizeand tell our story in a powerful way.And so those of you in this audiencewho have helped build those applicationsand those platforms, as an organizer,I say, thank you very much.Really. I clap for you.(Applause)
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:我爸爸是个乐观主义者真的他的乐观精神是我的基因我超过三十年来一直在做这项工作30 年来，我也相信，现在比以往任何时候更适合人类去改变我相信我们可以使人类历史转向慈悲和平等我也从根本上热切地相信这种暴力不是人类之所以为人类的条件我邀请你站在我们这边为所有的妇女女孩男人男孩创造一个没有暴力的未来
en:I&#39;m the daughter of a manwho joined one club in his life,the Optimist Club.You can&#39;t make that one up.And it is his spirit and his optimismthat is in my DNA.I have been doing this workfor over 30 years,and I am convinced, now more than ever,in the capacity of human beings to change.I believe we can bend the arc of human historytoward compassion and equality,and I also fundamentally believeand passionately believethat this violence does not have to be partof the human condition.And I ask you, stand with usas we create futures without violencefor women and girls and men and boys everywhere.
时间：10:50
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：10:52
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
