时间： 0:18
zh-cn:各位 你们可以看到 我很矮 我是法国人我有很重的法国口音一会你们就会发现这一点
en:So here it is. You can check: I am short, I&#39;m French,I have a pretty strong French accent,so that&#39;s going to be clear in a moment.
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:或者这很触目惊心你们都知道这些事我想你们中的很多人今年还给海地人捐献了东西但还有些别的事我相信在你们脑中你们也知道就是每天都会有25,000个孩子丧生死于完全可以预防的原因那是每八天的海地地震情况我想你们中的很多人也许也想过这个问题但是每次灾难的破坏程度不太一样
en:Maybe a sobering thoughtand something you all know about.And I suspect many of you gavesomething to the people of Haiti this year.And there is something elseI believe in the back of your mindyou also know.That is, every day,25,000 children dieof entirely preventable causes.That&#39;s a Haiti earthquake every eight days.And I suspect many of you probably gave somethingtowards that problem as well,but somehow it doesn&#39;t happenwith the same intensity.
时间： 0:59
zh-cn:那么 这是为什么呢？你们看一下这样一个实验想象下 你募集了几百万美金你可能是某个发展中国家的官员你有个花钱的预算 你想把钱用在帮助贫困上你会怎样做？你会相信这样的人：他们认为 我们所有该做的就是花钱我们知道如何消除贫困我们只是需要做更多还是会相信另外一些人：他们认为 援助没啥用，反而有坏处它可能助长腐败、依赖性等等或者你会想想过去毕竟，我们花费了数十亿美金在援助上你们看看过去看看援助是否做了些好事
en:So why is that?Well, here is a thought experiment for you.Imagine you have a few million dollars that you&#39;ve raised —maybe you&#39;re a politician in a developing countryand you have a budget to spend. You want to spend it on the poor:How do you go about it?Do you believe the people who tell youthat all we need to do is to spend money?That we know how to eradicate poverty,we just need to do more?Or do you believe the people who tell you thataid is not going to help, on the contrary it might hurt,it might exacerbate corruption, dependence, etc.?Or maybe you turn to the past.After all, we have spent billions of dollars on aid.Maybe you look at the past and see.Has it done any good?
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:很遗憾，我们不知道最糟糕的是，我们永远也不会知道而原因是——拿非洲作为例子非洲人得到很多援助就是这些蓝条而非洲的GDP却没咋增长好的， 你们如何得知没有援助会发生什么或许会坏很多或许会好很多我们不知道 不知道这样假设会如何只有一个非洲
en:And, sadly, we don&#39;t know.And worst of all, we will never know.And the reason is that — take Africa for example.Africans have already got a lot of aid.These are the blue bars.And the GDP in Africa is not making much progress.Okay, fine. How do you know whatwould have happened without the aid?Maybe it would have been much worse,or maybe it would have been better.We have no idea. We don&#39;t know what the counterfactual is.There&#39;s only one Africa.
时间： 2:12
zh-cn:那么 你们会怎样做给援助 然后希望、祈祷它会带了些好处还是 仅仅关注自己的每日生活而让每八天一次的地震继续发生？要注意 如果我们不知道我们是否在做好事我们就甚至还不如中世纪的医生和那些寄生虫做得更好有时候病人治好 有时候病人死去这是因为寄生虫，还是因为别的什么？我们不知道
en:So what do you do?To give the aid, and hope and pray that something comes out of it?Or do you focus on your everyday lifeand let the earthquake every eight dayscontinue to happen?The thing is, if we don&#39;t knowwhether we are doing any good,we are not any betterthan the Medieval doctors and their leeches.Sometimes the patient gets better, sometimes the patient dies.Is it the leeches? Is it something else?We don&#39;t know.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:还要另外几个问题这些问题很小但又不是那么小免疫 这是挽救孩子生命最便宜的方法世界花了很多钱在免疫上国际免疫预防联合会（GAVI）和盖茨基金会都在免疫上投入很多钱发展国家自身也做了很多努力然而，每年至少2500万儿童不能得到他们本应得到的免疫这就是所谓的“最后一英里难题” （last mile problem 指人们能得到并正确使用质量好的药物）我们有技术我们有基础设施但是，问题却没有得到解决那么 当你有百万美金时你怎样花钱才能解决“最后一英里难题”
en:So here are some other questions.They&#39;re smaller questions,but they are not that small.Immunization, that&#39;s the cheapest wayto save a child&#39;s life.And the world has spent a lot of money on it:The GAVI and the Gates Foundationsare each pledging a lot of money towards it,and developing countries themselves have been doing a lot of effort.And yet, every yearat least 25 million childrendo not get the immunization they should get.So this is what you call a &quot;last mile problem.&quot;The technology is there,the infrastructure is there,and yet it doesn&#39;t happen.So you have your million.How do you use your millionto solve this last mile problem?
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:还有另外一个问题疟疾 疟疾每年夺走90万人的生命大多数死者在撒哈拉以南的非洲大多数年龄小于5岁事实上 疟疾是5岁下儿童的最主要死因我们已经知道如何治愈疟疾但有些人找到你 并对你说“你有几百万，不如买蚊帐吧”蚊帐很便宜只要10美元，你就能制造并运输一个经过杀虫剂处理的蚊帐而且，你能教人们使用蚊帐此外，蚊帐不仅能保护谁在蚊帐里的人而且还有巨大的防传染功效如果社区里一半的人睡在蚊帐里另一半也能受惠因为疾病能传染、扩散然而，只有四分之一面临疟疾风险的孩子睡在蚊帐里社会应该愿意行动资助购买蚊帐，并且免费捐赠或者，在这个问题上，补贴那些使用蚊帐的人因为蚊帐的防传染功效而另外一些人说 “别这么快”“如果你免费提供蚊帐人们不会珍惜蚊帐他们不会去使用蚊帐或者至少他们不会把蚊帐当蚊帐使用而可能是当作鱼网 （蚊帐为bed net，net的意思是”网“）那么，你会怎样做？是免费提供蚊帐，以求最大限度的蚊帐覆盖率？还是要人们为蚊帐买单以使他们认识到蚊帐的价值？你怎么知道？
en:And here&#39;s another question:Malaria. Malaria kills almost900,000 people every year,most of them in Sub-Saharan Africa,most of them under five.In fact, that is the leading cause of under-five mortality.We already know how to kill malaria,but some people come to you and say,&quot;You have your millions. How about bed nets?&quot;Bed nets are very cheap.For 10 dollars, you can manufacture and shipan insecticide treated bed netand you can teach someone to use them.And, not only do they protect the people who sleep under them,but they have these great contagion benefits.If half of a community sleeps under a net,the other half also benefitsbecause the contagion of the disease spread.And yet, only a quarter of kids at risk sleep under a net.Societies should be willing to go outand subsidize the net, give them for free,or, for that matter, pay people to use thembecause of those contagion benefits.&quot;Not so fast,&quot; say other people.&quot;If you give the nets for free,people are not going to value them.They&#39;re not going to use them,or at least they&#39;re not going to use them as bed nets,maybe as fishing nets.&quot;So, what do you do?Do you give the nets for free to maximize coverage,or do you make people payin order to make sure that they really value them?How do you know?
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:第三个问题是 教育或许这才是解决之道 或许我们应该送孩子去上学但是你会怎么去做？你会聘请更多教师？ 你会建更多校舍？你会提供学校午餐吗？你怎么知道哪种方法更好？
en:And a third question: Education.Maybe that&#39;s the solution, maybe we should send kids to school.But how do you do that?Do you hire teachers? Do you build more schools?Do you provide school lunch?How do you know?
时间： 4:54
zh-cn:这就是问题所在。我无法回答那个大问题即 援助是好是坏但是，我能回答这三个小问题现在不再是中世纪而是二十一世纪在二十世纪里随机的、可控的试验已经将医药革命了因为它让我们能够区分有效的药物和无用的药物现在 你可以采用同样的方式：针对社会政策的 随机的、可控的试验你可以对社会革新施以同样的精确而又科学的测试就像我们为药物所做的那样以这种方式， 你可以把推测的成分从政策制定中区分出来因为你知道了什么可行什么不可行 为什么是这样我会针对这三个问题举一些例子
en:So here is the thing.I cannot answer the big question,whether aid did any good or not.But these three questions, I can answer them.It&#39;s not the Middle Ages anymore,it&#39;s the 21st century.And in the 20th century,randomized, controlled trialshave revolutionized medicineby allowing us to distinguishbetween drugs that workand drugs that don&#39;t work.And you can do the samerandomized, controlled trial for social policy.You can put social innovation to the samerigorous, scientific teststhat we use for drugs.And in this way, you can take the guessworkout of policy-makingby knowing what works,what doesn&#39;t work and why.And I&#39;ll give you some examples with those three questions.
时间： 5:44
zh-cn:首先从免疫开始这是印度拉贾斯坦邦的乌代布尔区 ，非常美丽当我开始在那工作时约1%的儿童得到了完全免疫这很糟糕 但是还有很多地方好不到哪去现在，并不是因为那里没有疫苗疫苗在那，而且是免费的也不因为父母不关心孩子一个没有免疫过麻疹的孩子一旦感染麻疹 父母将要花费数千卢用于治疗现在 你看到这些空荡荡的乡村中心和拥挤的医院那么问题在哪？部分问题当然是人们不太懂毕竟在这个国家有各种关于疟疾的传说和误解.如果这是问题所在, 很麻烦因为很难说服人们.但是 或许还有另外一个问题.人们开始从关注它到采取行动想象下你是位母亲就生活在拉贾斯坦邦的乌代布尔区你不得不不行几公里才能让孩子得到免疫或许当你到达免疫地点时 你会发现副中心关门了 那么你就不得不打道回府如果你很忙 你有很多事要做你将一直拖延拖延直到有一天已经太迟了.如果这是问题所在的话 倒是简单很多因为: A 我们能让免疫更容易B 我们或许能给人们一个今天就行动的理由而不是等到明天.
en:So I start with immunization.Here&#39;s Udaipur District, Rajasthan. Beautiful.Well, when I started working there,about one percent of childrenwere fully immunized.That&#39;s bad, but there are places like that.Now, it&#39;s not because the vaccines are not there —they are there and they are free —and it&#39;s not because parents do not care about their kids.The same child that is not immunized against measles,if they do get measles, parents will spendthousands of rupees to help them.So you get these empty village subcentersand crowded hospitals.So what is the problem?Well, part of the problem, surely, is people do not fully understand.After all, in this country as well,all sorts of myths and misconceptionsgo around immunization.So if that&#39;s the case, that&#39;s difficult,because persuasion is really difficult.But maybe there is another problem as well.It&#39;s going from intention to action.Imagine you are a motherin Udaipur District, Rajasthan.You have to walk a few kilometers to get your kids immunized.And maybe when you get there, what you find is this:The subcenter is closed. Ao you have to come back,and you are so busy and you have so many other things to do,you will always tend to postpone and postpone,and eventually it gets too late.Well, if that&#39;s the problem, then that&#39;s much easier.Because A, we can make it easy,and B, we can maybegive people a reason to act today,rather than wait till tomorrow.
时间： 7:08
zh-cn:这是很简单的想法 但过去我们不知道.那么让我们将这些想法付诸行动.我们过去的是 随机的、可控的试验在拉贾斯坦邦的乌代布尔区的134个村庄这些蓝点是随机选定的.我们的做法很简单 一会我就告诉你们.在红点处 我们简单地告诉人们一个今天就行动的理由。白点处是作为对比，什么也没变我们简单地组织每月营地，在这里人们可以让孩子得到免疫然后你就简单地告诉人们一个今天就行动的理由通过给每次免疫一公斤扁豆的补助现在 一公斤扁豆真是微不足道。你永远也不会说服任何人去做他们不想做的事。另一方面 如果你的问题是你老是拖延，那就给你个今天就行动的理由而不是以后再去做
en:So these are simple ideas, but we didn&#39;t know.So let&#39;s try them.So what we did is we did a randomized, controlled trialin 134 villages in Udaipur Districts.So the blue dotsare selected randomly.We made it easy — I&#39;ll tell you how in a moment.In the red dots, we made it easyand gave people a reason to act now.The white dots are comparisons, nothing changed.So we make it easy by organizingthis monthly camp where people canget their kids immunized.And then you make it easyand give a reason to act nowby adding a kilo of lentils for each immunization.Now, a kilo of lentils is tiny.It&#39;s never going to convince anybodyto do something that they don&#39;t want to do.On the other hand, if your problem is you tend to postpone,then it might give you a reason to act todayrather than later.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:那么我们发现了什么？起初 一切如故这就是随机试验的好处后来这些营地 仅仅是每月营地将免疫率从6%增长到17%是指完全免疫还不错，很大的进步加了扁豆后 数字达到了38%现在你就知道答案了简单点 给一公斤扁豆就将免疫率乘以6现在 你会说 ”很好，可这是不可持续的我们不能总是给扁豆”结果是 这是错误的经济学因为给扁豆比不给扁豆要便宜既然 你总是要为护士付费每次免疫费用最终是给激励时比不给时要便宜
en:So what do we find?Well, beforehand, everything is the same.That&#39;s the beauty of randomization.Afterwards,the camp — just having the camp —increases immunization from six percent to 17 percent.That&#39;s full immunization.That&#39;s not bad, that&#39;s a good improvement.Add the lentils and you reach to 38 percent.So here you&#39;ve got your answer.Make it easy and give a kilo of lentils,you multiply immunization rate by six.Now, you might say, &quot;Well, but it&#39;s not sustainable.We cannot keep giving lentils to people.&quot;Well, it turns out it&#39;s wrong economics,because it is cheaperto give lentils than not to give them.Since you have to pay for the nurse anyway,the cost per immunizationends up being cheaper if you give incentives than if you don&#39;t.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:蚊帐又该如何？你是免费发放 还是让人们付费？答案取决于三个简单问题的答案第一个问题是如果人们必须为蚊帐付费他们还会买吗？第二个问题是如果蚊帐是免费的人们还会用吗？第三个问题是免费蚊帐会导致日后不再购买蚊帐吗？第三个问题很重要因为 如果我们认为人们习惯了救济后将会破坏发放免费蚊帐的市场现在 这个争论已经带来了很多感情和愤怒的言辞。这更理想主义而非实用主义，但又回答了一个简单的问题。我们可以知道问题的答案我们只要做下试验很多试验 都有相同的结果接下来 我会给你们讲一个
en:How about bed nets?Should you give them for free, or should you ask people to pay for them?So the answer hingeson the answer to three simple questions.One is: If people must pay for a bed net,are they going to purchase them?The second one is:If I give bed nets for free,are people going to use them?And the third one is:Do free bed nets discourage future purchase?The third one is importantbecause if we think people get used to handouts,it might destroy markets to distribute free bed nets.Now this is a debate that has generateda lot of emotion and angry rhetoric.It&#39;s more ideological than practical,but it turns out it&#39;s an easy question.We can know the answer to this question.We can just run an experiment.And many experiments have been run, and they all have the same results,so I&#39;m just going to talk to you about one.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:这个试验是在肯尼亚做的他们到处走动 分发给村民优惠券 折扣券然后 人们用优惠券可以在当地的要点买到蚊帐有些人得到100%折扣有些是20%折扣有些事50%折扣 等等现在我们可以看看发生了什么若是要购买会如何你可以看到当人们不得不为蚊帐付费时蚊帐覆盖率大幅下降即使有部分补助-3美元依然不是蚊帐的完全花费现在你只有20%的人拥有蚊帐你失去了[覆盖率] 那样不好第二件事是 年轻人会如何好消息是 当人们拥有蚊帐时他们会使用蚊帐 不管蚊帐是如何得到的他们免费得到蚊帐 会使用他们付费得到蚊帐 也会使用长期情况如何呢？长远看来得到免费蚊帐的人们一年后 面临花两美元买一个蚊帐的选择免费获得蚊帐的人们实际上更可能买第二个蚊帐相比没得到免费蚊帐的人而言所以 人们没有习惯于救济 而是习惯于蚊帐！或许我们应该更相信他们
en:And this one that was in Kenya,they went around and distributed to peoplevouchers, discount vouchers.So people with their vouchercould get the bed net in the local pharmacy.And some people get 100 percent discount,and some people get 20 percent discounts,and some people get 50 percent discount, etc.And now we can see what happens.So, how about the purchasing?Well, what you can see is thatwhen people have to pay for their bed nets,the coverage rate really falls down a lot.So even with partial subsidy,three dollars is still not the full cost of a bed net,and now you only have 20 percent of the people with the bed nets,you lose the health immunity, that&#39;s not great.Second thing is, how about the use?Well, the good news is, people, if they have the bed nets,will use the bed nets regardless of how they got it.If they get it for free, they use it.If they have to pay for it, they use it.How about the long term?In the long term,people who got the free bed nets,one year later, were offered the optionto purchase a bed net at two dollars.And people who got the free onewere actually more likely to purchase the second onethan people who didn&#39;t get a free one.So people do not get used to handouts; they get used to nets.Maybe we need to give them a little bit more credit.
时间：10:48
zh-cn:那些就是关于蚊帐的 你会想“太好了你知道怎样免疫 你知道怎样发放蚊帐”但是政客们需要的是一组选择他们需要知道： 在所有这些我能做的事当中哪一个是能最好地实现目标的方式？假如你的目标是让孩子们上学有这么多事可做 你可以为制服买单你可以降低费用 你可以建造公厕你可以给女孩提供卫生垫 等等那么最好的是什么？某种程度上而言 我们认为所有这些事都该做那么 这些足够吗？ 比如, 假如我们凭直觉认为这些应该有效我们应该去做这些事吗？在商业里 这显然不是我们做事的方式
en:So, that&#39;s for bed nets. So you will think, &quot;That&#39;s great.You know how to immunize kids, you know how to give bed nets.&quot;But what politicians need is a range of options.They need to know: Out of all the things I could do,what is the best way to achieve my goals?So suppose your goal is to get kids into school.There are so many things you could do. You could pay for uniforms,you could eliminate fees, you could build latrines,you could give girls sanitary pads, etc., etc.So what&#39;s the best?Well, at some level, we thinkall of these things should work.So, is that sufficient? If we think they should work intuitively,should we go for them?Well, in business, that&#39;s certainly not the way we would go about it.
时间：11:27
zh-cn:考虑下这个例子运输货物在运河被发明之前英国在工业革命前货物是通过马车运输接着运河被修建后用同样的马夫和同样的马匹你可以运输十倍于之前的货物那么 他们应该继续用马车在路上运输货物吗？反正他们最终总是能到达目的地如果 现实是这样就不会发生工业革命那么 为什么我们不应以同样方式来制定社会政策？在科技领域 我们花费了大量时间做实验 调节获得绝对最便宜的方式去做某事那么 为什么我们没有以同样方式来制定社会政策？
en:Consider for exampletransporting goods.Before the canals were inventedin Britain before the Industrial Revolution,goods used to go on horse carts.And then canals were built,and with the same horseman and the same horse,you could carry ten times as much cargo.So should they have continuedto carry the goods on the horse carts, on the ground,that they would eventually get there?Well, if that had been the case,there would have been no Industrial Revolution.So why shouldn&#39;t we do the same with social policy?In technology, we spend so much timeexperimenting, fine-tuning,getting the absolute cheapest way to do something,so why aren&#39;t we doing that with social policy?
时间：12:09
zh-cn:通过做实验 你可以做到的是回答一个简单的问题假如你有100美元可以用于各种干预措施用你的几百美元可以得到多少年额外的教育？现在我会告诉你各种教育干预能带来什么最先的答案 是一些普遍的假设：请老师 学校午餐学校制服 奖学金这都不错 用你的一百美金你可以得到一到三年的额外教育不太好的事是贿赂家长仅仅因为很多孩子已经开始上学你终止了花费大量金钱这儿是最让人惊讶的结果告诉人们教育的益处这佯做很便宜你花费在这件事的每一百美元你将得到40年额外教育在那些有寄生虫的地方蛔虫治疗有蛔虫的小孩用每一百美元你将得到几乎30年的额外教育这不复合你的直觉这不是人们希望的然而 这些项目很有效我们需要那样的信息 我们需要更多然后 我们需要引导政策
en:Well, with experiments, what you can dois answer a simple question.Suppose you have 100 dollars to spendon various interventions.How many extra years of educationdo you get for your hundred dollars?Now I&#39;m going to show youwhat we get with various education interventions.So the first ones are if you want the usual suspects,hire teachers, school meals,school uniforms, scholarships.And that&#39;s not bad. For your hundred dollars,you get between one and three extra years of education.Things that don&#39;t work so well is bribing parents,just because so many kids are already going to schoolthat you end up spending a lot of money.And here are the most surprising results.Tell people the benefits of education,that&#39;s very cheap to do.So for every hundred dollars you spend doing that,you get 40 extra years of education.And, in places where there are worms,intestinal worms,cure the kids of their worms.And for every hundred dollars,you get almost 30 extra years of education.So this is not your intuition,this is not what people would have gone for,and yet, these are the programs that work.We need that kind of information, we need more of it,and then we need to guide policy.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:好的 我是从那个大问题开始的 我不能回答它然后 我将它分为几个小问题而我能回答这些小问题这些回答是很好的、科学的、有力的回答
en:So now, I started from the big problem, and I couldn&#39;t answer it.And I cut it into smaller questions,and I have the answer to these smaller questions.And they are good, scientific, robust answers.
时间：13:36
zh-cn:我们回过头来谈谈海地在海地 大约20万人丧身事实上 最新的估计比这个数字还要多世界的反应时强烈的过去一个月 募集了20亿美元大约是 每一个死亡1万美元你仔细想想 其实这并不像听起来那么多但是 如果我们愿意为每个去世的小于5岁的孩子花费1万美元那将是每年900美元仅仅是为那个问题然而 这并没有发生那 这是为什么呢？我认为部分问题在于尽管海地的问题很大可是我们总能懂一些 我们就能定位问题你捐钱给无国界医生组织你捐钱给健康伙伴组织(Partners in Health)他们会送医生过去 他们会送物品过去他们会用直升飞机运东西进进出出但是贫困的问题并非如此首先 它通常是看不见的其次 它是很严重的最后 我们不清楚我们所做的是否正确没有任何绝招可用你不能用直升飞机将人们从贫困中运出这真是让人沮丧
en:So let&#39;s go back to Haiti for a moment.In Haiti, about 200,000 people died —actually, a bit more by the latest estimate.And the response of the world was great:Two billion dollars got pledged just last month,so that&#39;s about 10,000 dollars per death.That doesn&#39;t sound like that much when you think about it.But if we were willing to spend 10,000 dollarsfor every child under five who dies,that would be 90 billion per yearjust for that problem.And yet it doesn&#39;t happen.So, why is that?Well, I think what part of the problem is that,in Haiti, although the problem is huge,somehow we understand it, it&#39;s localized.You give your money to Doctors Without Borders,you give your money to Partners In Health,and they&#39;ll send in the doctors, and they&#39;ll send in the lumber,and they&#39;ll helicopter things out and in.And the problem of poverty is not like that.So, first, it&#39;s mostly invisible;second, it&#39;s huge;and third, we don&#39;t know whether we are doing the right thing.There&#39;s no silver bullet.You cannot helicopter people out of poverty.And that&#39;s very frustrating.
时间：14:42
zh-cn:但是看看我们今天所做的我给你们三个问题的三个简单答案让免疫[更便利]提供免费蚊帐 给孩子打蛔虫通过免疫或者蚊帐你可以用300美元拯救一条生命通过打蛔虫 你可以用300美元得到一年额外的教育我们不能立刻消除贫困但是我们可以开始行动或许我们能以那些我们知道是有效的方式开始
en:But look what we just did today.I gave you three simple answers to three questions:Give lentils to immunize people,provide free bed nets, deworm children.With immunization or bed nets,you can save a life for 300 dollars per life saved.With deworming, you can getan extra year of education for three dollars.So we cannot eradicate poverty just yet,but we can get started.And maybe we can get started smallwith things that we know are effective.
时间：15:12
zh-cn:这个例子告诉我们这样做多么强有力打蛔虫蛔虫不会引起新闻头条的一丝主义他们不漂亮 他们不杀死人然而 当年轻的全球领袖 在达沃斯展示这些我告诉你们的数字时他们开始了”世界除虫“行动幸亏有这个世界除虫行动以及很多国家政府和基金会的努力2009年有2千万学龄儿童得到除虫这个证据是强有力的它能推动行动
en:Here&#39;s an example of how this can be powerful.Deworming.Worms have a little bit of a problem grabbing the headlines.They are not beautiful and don&#39;t kill anybody.And yet, when the young global leader in Davosshowed the numbers I gave you,they started Deworm the World.And thanks to Deworm the World,and the effort of many country governments and foundations,20 million school-aged children got dewormed in 2009.So this evidence is powerful.It can prompt action.
时间：15:38
zh-cn:我们现在就应开始行动现在 这不是件容易的事这是很漫长的过程你必须坚持试验 有时候必须用实用性来鼓吹想法有时候 在此地有效的方式在彼处失效这是很漫长的过程但是有其他放肆我所建议的经济学就像20实际的药物这是一个漫长，很慎重发现过程没有魔法疗法但是现代药物每年都在挽救数以百万计的生命而我们可以做到同样的事
en:So we should get started now.It&#39;s not going to be easy.It&#39;s a very slow process.You have to keep experimenting, and sometimes ideologyhas to be trumped by practicality.And sometimes what works somewhere doesn&#39;t work elsewhere.So it&#39;s a slow process,but there is no other way.These economics I&#39;m proposing,it&#39;s like 20th century medicine.It&#39;s a slow, deliberative processof discovery.There is no miracle cure,but modern medicine is savingmillions of lives every year,and we can do the same thing.
时间：16:13
zh-cn:现在 或许我们能回归到那个我一开始就提出的大问题我不能告诉你过去的援助花费是否起了作用但是 30年后我们可以回到这里然后说 ”我们所做的一切真的促进了事情往好的方向改变“我相信我们可以做到 我希望我们能够做到
en:And now, maybe, we can go back to the bigger questionthat I started with at the beginning.I cannot tell youwhether the aid we have spent in the past has made a difference,but can we come back here in 30 yearsand say, &quot;What we have done,it really prompted a change for the better.&quot;I believe we can and I hope we will.
时间：16:35
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间：16:37
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
