时间： 0:11
zh-cn:&quot;毒品战争&quot;对世界有什么影响？看看那些发生在墨西哥、中美洲和世界其他地方的谋杀和混乱。看看全球每年约3000亿美元的黑市交易看看美国和其他地方那些人满为患的监狱大量的警察和军队被牵扯进这场永远打不赢、而且侵犯基本人权的战争还有那些无辜的平民，乞求着不要被卷入剿毒行动的交火中与此同时，吸毒的人却越来越多这就像我的国家历史上的禁酒令和艾尔·卡彭（禁酒令期间贩卖私酒的黑帮头目）的50倍规模重演
en:What has the War on Drugs done to the world?Look at the murder and mayhem in Mexico,Central America, so many other parts of the planet,the global black market estimatedat 300 billion dollars a year,prisons packed in the United States and elsewhere,police and military drawn into an unwinnable warthat violates basic rights, and ordinary citizensjust hope they don&#39;t get caught in the crossfire,and meanwhile, more people usingmore drugs than ever.It&#39;s my country&#39;s history with alcohol prohibitionand Al Capone, times 50.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:令我感到难堪的是，我们美国人就是这个全球反毒战争的幕后推手去问问为什么那么多国家把他们听都没听过的药物列为非法为什么联合国的药物条约强调刑事定罪超过人们的健康？甚至为什么全世界大部分解决药物滥用的资金都不用在研究改善药物的机构而是用于惩罚药物滥用你会发现它们的答案就是——我们大美国
en:Which is why it&#39;s particularly galling to meas an American that we&#39;ve been the driving forcebehind this global drug war.Ask why so many countries criminalizedrugs they&#39;d never heard of,why the U.N. drug treaties emphasizecriminalization over health,even why most of the money worldwidefor dealing with drug abuse goes notto helping agencies but those that punish,and you&#39;ll find the good old U.S. of A.
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:我们为什么这样做？有些人，尤其是拉丁美洲的人，认为这并不是真的关乎毒品事实上这只是美国用来推进政治利益的托词但总的来说，又不完全是这样我们确实不希望，有黑帮和游击队有来自非法毒品的资金支持去恐吓和接管其他国家。但，事实是，美国就像疯了一样一旦谈到毒品，或者药物我的意思是，不要忘了，我们就是那些以为自己可以禁酒的人。所以，不要把全球禁毒战争想成是一个理性的政策而要把它想成是一个国家的精神病延伸到了国际上。（掌声）
en:Why did we do this?Some people, especially in Latin America,think it&#39;s not really about drugs.It&#39;s just a subterfuge for advancingthe realpolitik interests of the U.S.But by and large, that&#39;s not it.We don&#39;t want gangsters and guerrillasfunded with illegal drug moneyterrorizing and taking over other nations.No, the fact is, America really is crazywhen it comes to drugs.I mean, don&#39;t forget, we&#39;re the ones who thoughtthat we could prohibit alcohol.So think about our global drug warnot as any sort of rational policy,but as the international projectionof a domestic psychosis.(Applause)
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:但这里还有个好消息现在是俄罗斯在领导禁毒战争，而不是我们我们国家的大多数政客现在想从禁毒战争里退一步回来让更少的人被卷入这场战争，而不是更多我可以很自豪地说，作为一个美国人我们现在正领导世界改革大麻政策现在只要是在合法的医疗目的下美国50个州里几乎一半的民众数以百万计的人都可以从政府许可的药店里买到他们的大麻——他们的药物还有超过一半的同胞们说，现在是时候立法规范大麻和对其征税就跟我们对酒水做的事一样这正是科罗拉多州和华盛顿正在做的，还有乌拉圭，可以肯定其他地方也会跟着这么做
en:But here&#39;s the good news.Now it&#39;s the Russians leadingthe Drug War and not us.Most politicians in my countrywant to roll back the Drug War now,put fewer people behind bars, not more,and I&#39;m proud to say as an Americanthat we now lead the worldin reforming marijuana policies.It&#39;s now legal for medical purposesin almost half our 50 states,millions of people can purchase their marijuana,their medicine, in government-licensed dispensaries,and over half my fellow citizens now say it&#39;s timeto legally regulate and tax marijuanamore or less like alcohol.That&#39;s what Colorado and Washington are doing,and Uruguay, and others are sure to follow.
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:所以，这就是我在做的事：致力于结束禁毒战争。我想，这一切是由于我成长在一个比较笃信宗教和注重道德的家庭作为一个犹太教教士的长子当我去上大学时，我抽了一些大麻而且很喜欢。（笑声）我也很喜欢喝酒，但是很显然这两者中酒精确实更加危险，可是我和我的朋友是有可能因为吸食大麻而被抓的。
en:So that&#39;s what I do:work to end the Drug War.I think it all started growing upin a fairly religious, moral family,eldest son of a rabbi,going off to university where Ismoked some marijuanaand I liked it. (Laughter)And I liked drinking too, but it was obviousthat alcohol was really themore dangerous of the two,but my friends and I could get bustedfor smoking a joint.
时间： 3:14
zh-cn:这个表里不一的概念不停地缠着我所以我写的博士论文就是研究国际药物管制。我想办法进入了政府部门我得到了安全许可我采访了数百名在欧洲和美洲等地工作的药品管制局（EDA）和执法人员。我会问他们：“你认为答案是什么？”好吧，在拉丁美洲，他们会跟我说，“你真的没办法切断供应。答案在于美国，在于切断需求。”于是我回到家乡，我问那些参与禁毒工作的人，他们却说，“你知道吗，Ethan，你无法真正切断需求。答案在那边。你必须得切断供应。”然后，我去跟海关那边的家伙聊能否在边境阻止毒品进入。他们说，“你不可能在这里把它堵住的。答案在那边，你得切断供应和需求。”在那一刻，我终于明白了每一个参与其中的人都认为答案在别的领域而他们自己，对其知之甚少。
en:Now, that hypocrisy kept bugging me,so I wrote my Ph.D dissertationon international drug control.I talked my way into the State Department.I got a security clearance.I interviewed hundreds of DEAand other law enforcement agentsall around Europe and the Americas,and I&#39;d ask them,&quot;What do you think the answer is?&quot;Well, in Latin America, they&#39;d say to me,&quot;You can&#39;t really cut off the supply.The answer lies back in the U.S.,in cutting off the demand.&quot;So then I go back home and I talk to peopleinvolved in anti-drug efforts there, and they&#39;d say,&quot;You know, Ethan, you can&#39;t really cut off the demand.The answer lies over there.You&#39;ve got to cut off the supply.&quot;Then I&#39;d go and talk to the guys in customstrying to stop drugs at the borders,and they&#39;d say, &quot;You&#39;re not going to stop it here.The answer lies over there,in cutting off supply and demand.&quot;And it hit me:Everybody involved in thisthought the answer lay in that areaabout which they knew the least.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:于是我开始尽可能阅读一切关于精神药物的资料：它的历史、科学、政治…所有的一切。而读的越多，你就越会意识到，一个深思熟虑、有启发性、聪明的方向把你引向这里，而我们国家的政治和法律却把你带到这里。这悬殊的差异令我震惊这真是个令人难以置信的智力和道德难题。
en:So that&#39;s when I started reading everything I couldabout psychoactive drugs: the history, the science,the politics, all of it,and the more one read,the more it hit you how a thoughtful,enlightened, intelligent approach took you over here,whereas the politics and laws of my countrywere taking you over here.And that disparity struck me as this incredibleintellectual and moral puzzle.
时间： 4:45
zh-cn:这世上可能从来不存在一个没有毒品的社会。几乎每一个社会都有使用精神药物用来解决疼痛、提升精力、社交应酬、甚至是用来与神对话。我们这种对于知觉改变的渴望可能和我们对食物、友谊、性的渴望一样基本。因此，我们真正的挑战在于学会如何与精神药物共存从而使它造成的伤害最小并且在某些情况下，带来最大的益处。
en:There&#39;s probably never beena drug-free society.Virtually every societyhas ingested psychoactive substancesto deal with pain, increase our energy, socialize,even commune with God.Our desire to alter our consciousnessmay be as fundamental as our desiresfor food, companionship and sex.So our true challengeis to learn how to live with drugsso they cause the least possible harmand in some cases the greatest possible benefit.
时间： 5:20
zh-cn:让我告诉你们我学到的另一件事，之所以有些药物是合法的，有些则不是，这跟科学、健康或药物相应的风险几乎没有任何关系；而是跟谁在使用、或谁被视作在使用特定药物有关。在19世纪后期，当大多数现在非法的药物都还是合法的时候，我国和其他国家，鸦片的主要消费者是中年白人妇女她们用鸦片来缓解疼痛当时很少有别的止痛药可用。而且没人想过把它定为刑事犯罪，因为没有人希望把奶奶关进监狱。但是，当成千上万的中国人开始出现在我的国家在铁路和矿山上卖力工作然后晚上放松一下，就像他们在故乡常做的那样，吸上几口大烟，这就是你所见到的第一条禁毒法令出现在加利福尼亚州和内华达州因为那些有种族歧视的人担心中国人会把白人妇女变成鸦片成瘾的性奴。而第一条禁止可卡因的法律，也是由那些种族歧视的人提出的他们怕黑人闻了那白色粉末之后会忘记自己在南方社会里真正的位置。还有第一条禁止大麻的法律，同样是源于对西部和西南部地区墨西哥移民的恐惧。这就是发生在我们国家真相相信在很多别的地方也同样如此那些法律的起源和它们的执行。换句话说，让我稍稍夸大一点，如果可卡因的主要吸食者都是些有钱的白人老头而伟哥的主要消费者都是些贫穷年轻的黑人男子那么，你将很容易地拿着医生的处方买到烟用可卡因而出售伟哥会让你在牢里待上5到10年。（掌声）
en:I&#39;ll tell you something else I learned,that the reason some drugs are legal and others nothas almost nothing to do with science or healthor the relative risk of drugs,and almost everything to do with who usesand who is perceived to use particular drugs.In the late 19th century,when most of the drugs thatare now illegal were legal,the principal consumers of opiates in my countryand others were middle-aged white women,using them to alleviate aches and painswhen few other analgesics were available.And nobody thought about criminalizing it back thenbecause nobody wanted to put Grandma behind bars.But when hundreds of thousands of Chinesestarted showing up in my country,working hard on the railroads and the minesand then kicking back in the eveningjust like they had in the old countrywith a few puffs on that opium pipe,that&#39;s when you saw the first drug prohibition lawsin California and Nevada,driven by racist fears of Chinesetransforming white womeninto opium-addicted sex slaves.The first cocaine prohibition laws, similarly promptedby racist fears of black men sniffing that white powderand forgetting their proper placein Southern society.And the first marijuana prohibition laws,all about fears of Mexican migrantsin the West and the Southwest.And what was true in my country,is true in so many others as well,with both the origins of these lawsand their implementation.Put it this way,and I exaggerate only slightly:If the principal smokers of cocainewere affluent older white menand the principal consumers of Viagrawere poor young black men,then smokable cocaine would be easy toget with a prescription from your doctorand selling Viagra would get you five to 10 years behind bars.(Applause)
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:我曾是个教这方面知识的教授但现在，我是一个行动者，一名人权运动的积极分子而背后驱动我的力量，是我的惭愧我生活在一个原本很伟大的国家它有着不到世界5％的人口监狱里却关着占世界总数25%的犯人我遇到这样的人：他们曾因为与毒品有关的暴力事件、监禁、吸食过量或艾滋病而失去了他们所爱的人这都是因为我们的毒品政策它们强调刑责超过人们健康。他们是好人，他们失去了工作、房子、自由、甚至他们的孩子到了这般田地，不是因为他们伤害了谁而仅仅是因为他们选择了某一种药物，而不是另一种。
en:I used to be a professor teaching about this.Now I&#39;m an activist, a human rights activist,and what drives me is my shameat living in an otherwise great nationthat has less than five percentof the world&#39;s populationbut almost 25 percent of theworld&#39;s incarcerated population.It&#39;s the people I meet who have lost someonethey love to drug-related violence or prisonor overdose or AIDSbecause our drug policies emphasizecriminalization over health.It&#39;s good people who have lost their jobs,their homes, their freedom, even their childrento the state, not because they hurt anyonebut solely because they chose to use one druginstead of another.
时间： 8:01
zh-cn:所以，“合法化”是我们寻找的答案吗？关于这一点，我非常为难：每周有三天里我觉得是这样的，还有三天我觉得不是然后在周末，我是“不可知论者”。但既然今天是星期二，就让我说：只要合法地管制并对其征税大多数现在被列为非法的精神药物会显著地减少犯罪、暴力、贪污、黑市、以及掺假和不受管制的药物问题，并且提高公共安全还能使纳税人的资源被投入到更有用的地方。我的意思是，你看，大麻、可卡因、海洛因和甲基苯丙胺的市场，是全球性的商品市场就跟全球的酒精、烟草、咖啡、糖、以及许多其他的市场一样。只要哪里有需求，哪里就会有供应。消灭了一个源头，另一个源头还是会不可避免地出现。人们倾向于认为：禁止就是最终极的管制方案。而事实上，它代表的是放弃管制，并由罪犯去填补这个空缺。这就是为什么要把刑法和警察放在最前线和最核心的位置来试图控制一个瞬息万变的全球性商品市场这就是灾祸之因。而我们真正需要做的是把地下的毒品交易市场尽可能带回地面上来并且尽我们所能地，明智地，规范它以减少药物的伤害和禁毒政策带来的危害。
en:So is legalization the answer?On that, I&#39;m torn:three days a week I think yes,three days a week I think no,and on Sundays I&#39;m agnostic.But since today is Tuesday,let me just say that legally regulating and taxingmost of the drugs that are now criminalizedwould radically reduce the crime, violence,corruption and black markets,and the problems of adulteratedand unregulated drugs,and improve public safety,and allow taxpayer resources to be developedto more useful purposes.I mean, look, the markets in marijuana, cocaine,heroin and methamphetamineare global commodities marketsjust like the global markets in alcohol, tobacco,coffee, sugar, and so many other things.Where there is a demand,there will be a supply.Knock out one source and anotherinevitably emerges.People tend to think of prohibitionas the ultimate form of regulationwhen in fact it represents the abdication of regulationwith criminals filling the void.Which is why putting criminal laws and policefront and center in trying to controla dynamic global commodities marketis a recipe for disaster.And what we really need to dois to bring the underground drug marketsas much as possible abovegroundand regulate them as intelligently as we canto minimize both the harms of drugsand the harms of prohibitionist policies.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:这样，当我们提到大麻，显然指的是像酒精一样的依法管制和征税。这样做的好处是巨大的，而风险极小。会有更多的人使用大麻吗？也许吧，但年轻人不会这样因为大麻不会对他们合法化，而且坦白地说，他们已经有最好的获取大麻的途径了。我认为这将会是上了年纪的人。大概40多岁、60多岁和80多岁的人，他们发现自己宁愿吸点大麻来代替晚上喝的一杯酒或者吃的一片安眠药或者是用它来舒缓他们的关节炎或糖尿病又或者，用它来给老夫老妻的婚姻生活增添点情趣。（笑声）所以这对公众健康或许也有一些益处。
en:Now, with marijuana, that obviously meanslegally regulating and taxing it like alcohol.The benefits of doing so areenormous, the risks minimal.Will more people use marijuana?Maybe, but it&#39;s not going to be young people,because it&#39;s not going to be legalized for them,and quite frankly, they already havethe best access to marijuana.I think it&#39;s going to be older people.It&#39;s going to be people in their 40s and 60sand 80s who find they prefer a little marijuanato that drink in the evening or the sleeping pillor that it helps with their arthritis or diabetesor maybe helps spice up a long-term marriage. (Laughter)And that just might be a net public health benefit.
时间：10:27
zh-cn:至于其他药物，看看葡萄牙，在那儿没人会因为拥有毒品被抓去坐牢政府作出了郑重承诺，会把上瘾作为一个健康问题来治疗。再看看瑞士、德国、荷兰、丹麦和英国，在这些地方那些对海洛因上瘾多年，多次试图戒毒但失败的人，可以从医疗诊所获得药用海洛因和援助服务，而这样做的成果是：非法药物的滥用、疾病、服药过量、犯罪和拘捕 统统下降，健康和福祉提高，纳税人受益，许多吸毒者甚至戒掉了毒瘾。
en:As for the other drugs,look at Portugal, where nobody goes to jailfor possessing drugs,and the government&#39;s made a serious commitmentto treating addiction as a health issue.Look at Switzerland, Germany, the Netherlands,Denmark, England, where people who havebeen addicted to heroin for many yearsand repeatedly tried to quit and failedcan get pharmaceutical heroin and helping servicesin medical clinics, and the results are in:Illegal drug abuse and diseaseand overdoses and crime and arrests all go down,health and well-being improve,taxpayers benefit,and many drug users evenput their addictions behind them.
时间：11:07
zh-cn:看看新西兰，他们最近通过了一项法律允许某些软性毒品的合法销售只要这些药品的安全性已经得到确认。再来看看巴西，和一些别的国家，他们有一种引人注目的精神类药物，死藤水（用南美一种藤本植物的根泡制而成有致幻作用的饮料），可以被合法地购买和服用只要是在宗教背景下。看看玻利维亚和秘鲁，各种由古柯叶制成的产品，（古柯叶）就是可卡因的原料都在柜台上合法地销售这样做并没有对人们的健康带来明显的危害。我要说，别忘了，可口可乐直到1900年配方里都含有可卡因，但到正如大家所知，没有人觉得它比现在的可口可乐更让人上瘾。
en:Look at New Zealand, which recently enacted a lawallowing certain recreational drugs to be sold legallyprovided their safety had been established.Look here in Brazil, and some other countries,where a remarkable psychoactive substance,ayahuasca, can be legally bought and consumedprovided it&#39;s done so within a religious context.Look in Bolivia and Peru,where all sorts of products made from the coca leaf,the source of cocaine,are sold legally over the counterwith no apparent harm to people&#39;s public health.I mean, don&#39;t forget, Coca-Colahad cocaine in it until 1900,and so far as we know was no more addictivethan Coca-Cola is today.
时间：11:49
zh-cn:相反，想想香烟：没有什么比香烟更令你上瘾，更让你加速死亡了。当研究人员问海洛因成瘾者，他们最难戒掉的是什么大多数人说是香烟。而在我的国家和许多其他国家，那半数曾对香烟上瘾、后来成功戒烟的人都没有被逮捕或投入监狱或者被检察官和法官送去「戒毒所」。带来这种成功的原因是高税收，对销售、使用的时间和空间的限制，以及有效的反吸烟运动。现在，我们可以通过立法完全禁止吸烟来进一步减少吸烟吗？ 或许吧。但不妨想想，可能导致的类似禁毒战争一样的噩梦。
en:Conversely, think about cigarettes:Nothing can both hook you and kill you like cigarettes.When researchers ask heroin addictswhat&#39;s the toughest drug to quit, most say cigarettes.Yet in my country and many others,half of all the people who were ever addictedto cigarettes have quitwithout anyone being arrested or put in jailor sent to a &quot;treatment program&quot;by a prosecutor or a judge.What did it were higher taxesand time and place restrictions on sale and useand effective anti-smoking campaigns.Now, could we reduce smoking even moreby making it totally illegal? Probably.But just imagine the drug war nightmarethat would result.
时间：12:42
zh-cn:所以，我们今天面临的挑战有两方面。第一，是政策挑战我们要设计和实施有效的替代方案，来取代无效的禁令同时我们还需要更好地规范它学会跟这些（现在合法的）药物共存。但第二个挑战就困难了因为它是关于我们的。对这种改革的阻碍不只是存在于监狱工业体系的复杂状况和力量或其他想保住自己既得利益的人希望一切保持一直以来的样子而最主要是在于我们每个人。我们的恐惧，我们的缺乏了解还有我们的想象力 这些才是改革路上真正的阻碍。从根本上来说，我认为这都是为了孩子，因为每一位家长都希望自己的宝贝被保护在一个泡泡里，我们害怕毒品会以某种形式刺破这个泡泡把我们的年轻一辈置于危险之中。其实，有时候看起来整个禁毒战争好像很正当因为它是一个伟大的大型的儿童保护行动然而任何一个年轻人都会告诉你，事实并非如此。
en:So the challenges we face todayare twofold.The first is the policy challengeof designing and implementing alternativesto ineffective prohibitionist policies,even as we need to get better at regulatingand living with the drugs that are now legal.But the second challenge is tougher,because it&#39;s about us.The obstacles to reform lie not just out therein the power of the prison industrial complexor other vested interests that want to keep thingsthe way they are,but within each and every one of us.It&#39;s our fears and our lack of knowledgeand imagination that stands in the way of real reform.And ultimately, I think that boils down to the kids,and to every parent&#39;s desireto put our baby in a bubble,and the fear that somehowdrugs will pierce that bubbleand put our young ones at risk.In fact, sometimes it seems like the entireWar on Drugs gets justifiedas one great big child protection act,which any young person can tell you it&#39;s not.
时间：13:58
zh-cn:因此，这里我要对年轻人说：第一，不要吸毒。第二，不要吸毒。第三，如果你非要吸毒，有一些事情是我想让你知道的，因为我作为父母能够接受的底线是：每天晚上平平安安地回到家里，要好好长大，过一种健康的、美好的成年生活。这是我的禁毒教育口头禅：安全第一。
en:So here&#39;s what I say to teenagers.First, don&#39;t do drugs.Second, don&#39;t do drugs.Third, if you do do drugs,there&#39;s some things I want you to know,because my bottom line as your parent is,come home safely at the end of the nightand grow up and lead a healthy and good adulthood.That&#39;s my drug education mantra: Safety first.
时间：14:32
zh-cn:所以，这就是我一生致力于做的事要建立一个组织，推动一个运动让人们相信我们应该转身放弃以前失败的禁令去接受一个基于科学、爱心、健康和尊重人权的新药物政策我们的成员来自不同的政治派别拥有各种不同的背景有喜欢毒品的人有痛恨毒品的人还有根本不在乎毒品的人但我们每个人都相信：禁毒战争这个落后的、无情的、灾难性的禁毒战争必须得结束了。
en:So this is what I&#39;ve dedicated my life to,to building an organization and a movementof people who believe we need to turn our backson the failed prohibitions of the pastand embrace new drug policies grounded in science,compassion, health and human rights,where people who come fromacross the political spectrumand every other spectrum as well,where people who love our drugs,people who hate drugs,and people who don&#39;t give a damn about drugs,but every one of us believes that this War on Drugs,this backward, heartless, disastrous War on Drugs,has got to end.
时间：15:10
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间：15:11
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：15:26
zh-cn:谢谢。谢谢。
en:Thank you. Thank you.
时间：15:28
zh-cn:Chris Anderson：Ethan，恭喜——反应相当的热烈。真是个震撼的演讲。虽然不是所有人都起立鼓掌了而我猜测，在场观看的一些人或者一些在网络上在线观看的人里会有人认识一些青少年或朋友或者不论是因毒品而生病还是因为过量用药而去世我敢肯定，之前有这些人找过你你是怎样跟他们说的？
en:Chris Anderson: Ethan,congrats — quite the reaction.That was a powerful talk.Not quite a complete standing O, though,and I&#39;m guessing that some people hereand maybe a few watching online,maybe someone knows a teenager or a friendor whatever who got sick,maybe died from some drug overdose.I&#39;m sure you&#39;ve had thesepeople approach you before.What do you say to them?
时间：15:57
zh-cn:Ethan Nadelmann：Chris，最近所发生最让人惊喜的事就是我碰到越来越多的人那些失去兄弟姐妹或者子女因为亲人滥用药物的人在10年前的话，他们只是会说：把毒贩们排成一排拉出去枪毙了吧，这就会解决问题。而现在他们渐渐明白的是禁毒战争并没有保护到他们的孩子。如果禁毒真的做了什么，那就是让这些孩子们更容易处于危险之中。因此，他们现在成为了这个药物政策改革运动的一分子。还有一些家长，有多个孩子一个孩子嗜酒，另一个对可卡因或海洛因上瘾他们问自己这样一个问题：“为什么一个孩子可以一步一步努力变得更好；而另一个则要去面对监狱、警察和罪犯呢？“因此大家现在理解了，禁毒战争并没有保护任何人。
en:Ethan Nadelmann: Chris, the mostamazing thing that&#39;s happened of lateis that I&#39;ve met a growing number of peoplewho have actually lost a sibling or a childto a drug overdose,and 10 years ago, those people just wanted to say,let&#39;s line up all the drug dealers and shoot themand that will solve it.And what they&#39;ve come to understandis that the Drug War did nothing to protect their kids.If anything, it made it more likelythat those kids were put at risk.And so they&#39;re now becoming part of thisdrug policy reform movement.There&#39;s other people who have kids,one&#39;s addicted to alcohol, the otherone&#39;s addicted to cocaine or heroin,and they ask themselves the question:Why does this kid get to take one step at a timeand try to get betterand that one&#39;s got to deal with jailand police and criminals all the time?So everybody&#39;s understanding,the Drug War&#39;s not protecting anybody.
时间：16:40
zh-cn:CA：显然在美国，在大多数问题上都存在政治僵局。这些议题在5年内取得现实进展的机会大吗？
en:CA: Certainly in the U.S., you&#39;ve got political gridlockon most issues.Is there any realistic chance of anythingactually shifting on this issue in the next five years?
时间：16:49
zh-cn:EN：我得说这是非常引人注目的。我总会接到一些电话记者现在会跟我说：“Ethan，看起来如今在美国政治上唯一在进步的两个议题就是大麻政策改革和同性恋婚姻了。你现在在做什么吗？“然后你会看到两党打破隔阂开始合作通过…实际上，共和党努力在国会和各州议会让法案颁布，（议案的通过）有赖于大多数民主党议员的支持所以，毒品这个议题，从一个不能踩的雷区，美国政治中最可怕的问题，变成了最成功的议案之一。
en:EN: I&#39;d say it&#39;s quite remarkable. I&#39;m getting all these callsfrom journalists now who are saying to me,&quot;Ethan, it seems like the only two issuesadvancing politically in America right noware marijuana law reform and gay marriage.What are you doing right?&quot;And then you&#39;re looking at bipartisanship breaking outwith, actually, Republicans in the Congressand state legislatures allowing bills to be enactedwith majority Democratic support,so we&#39;ve gone from being sort of the third rail,the most fearful issue of American politics,to becoming one of the most successful.
时间：17:19
zh-cn:CA：Ethan，非常感谢你来到TED Global
en:CA: Ethan, thank you so much for coming to TEDGlobal.EN: Chris, thanks so much.
时间：17:21
zh-cn:EN：Chris，非常感谢。
en:CA: Thank you.EN: Thank you. (Applause)
