时间： 0:16
zh-cn:欢迎来到非洲！或者我应该说，欢迎回家。不是吗？此处便是我们的起源地从数百万年前的化石它们是我们在此生活的证据我们所知道的人类族类均发源于此。下来的四天，我们会有一次激动的旅程你们在下来的节目中你们会从其它演讲者听到各种关于非洲的怪诞的、离奇的故事但我现在想把顺序颠倒过来，让这些故事留着日后再探讨.我们先把一些事情拿到台上谈，消除下我们彼此间的隔阂好的，那我要问：你们听到关于非洲最糟糕的情况是什么？这可不是一个反问句哦我真的希望能听到你们的回答。继续！最烂的。饥荒腐败继续种族灭绝艾滋病奴隶制差不多了
en:Welcome to Africa! Or rather, I should say, welcome home.Because this is where it all really began, isn&#39;t it?Looking at fossils dating back several millions of years —it all points to evidence that lifefor the human species as we know it began right here.We are on an amazing journey the next four days.You&#39;re going to hear stories of &quot;Africa: The Next Chapter.&quot;Fantastic tales, anecdotes from speakers.But I want to turn that upside down for a moment,and get something out on the table and clear the air so to say.What&#39;s the worst thing you&#39;ve ever heard about Africa?And this is not a rhetorical question.I actually want answers from you.Go for it! The worst.Famine.Corruption.More.Genocide.AIDS.Slavery.That&#39;s enough.
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:我们都听到过了这些东西但是关于非洲，那些我们以前没有听到的故事那些我们想知道的真实存在正面意义的故事也我要讲述的内容关于在这里的投资机会去掉那些粉饰的，虚构的成分获取那些真实的统计数据获取那些正在我们身边发生的事实让非洲成为可供你选择的一个投资机会选择非洲在于某种意义上,这里正处于变革这个“变革”依赖于我们如何去理解想象如何去把握机遇“变革”是我职业生涯中所关注的重要领域早在10年前我作为一个年轻的顾问加入到约翰内斯堡城市的麦肯锡它是麦肯锡设立在非洲的第一个办公室
en:We&#39;ve all heard these things.But this is about Africa, the story we have not heard.The stories that we want to know,and the stories that do exist about positive tales.A part of my talk is going to be about investment opportunitiesthat exist on this continent,to separate the rhetoric from the reality, the fact from the fiction.To go to the actual data and statistics that existabout the actual things that are happening on the groundthat make Africa a realistic investment opportunity and option for you.So let&#39;s get going because Africa,to some degree, is on a turnaround.A turnaround in terms of how it manages its image,and how it takes control of its own destiny.And turnarounds are part and parcelof what I have focused on for most of my professional career.And it all started almost a decade ago,as a young consultant at McKinsey &amp; Companyat their first African office in Johannesburg.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:在那里我们与企业家领袖一起处理非洲的问题以及非洲企业的转型帮助这些企业成为不仅是非洲也是全球最好的公司而我真正的关注到变革这个领域是我在美国刚完成MBA学习的时候它由一个神奇的电话开始那个电话来至于罗莎白·默丝·坎特哈弗商学院的领军人物，同时也是我的导师她和我说到“Euvin ,我想写一个案例—一个公共事业领域领袖的案例这个案例将会用于跨国公司的课程我当时第一个想到的领导人便是纳尔逊.曼德拉(南非总统）因为纳尔逊.曼德拉是南非的第一个民选总统上任伊始就面对一个已经陷入混乱深渊的国家但由他开始引领国家走向良性的循环
en:And there we worked with leading CEOson African issues, and African companies on turnarounds,making the companies not just the best in Africabut the best globally.But I really formalized this focus on turnaroundswhen I was completing my MBA in the United States.It all began with a fantastic phone call.It was from Rosabeth Moss Kanter,Harvard Business School guru and a professor of mine.And she said, &quot;I want to write a case, Euvin —a case on a public-sector leaderthat has lessons for the corporate world.&quot;And the leader that came to mind was Nelson Mandela.Because Nelson Mandela, as he took over poweras the first democratically-elected president of South Africa,faced a situation of a countrythat could have slid into the abyss of chaos.But he started the country on a path of a positive cycle.
时间： 3:14
zh-cn:现在，这个案例“纳尔逊.曼德拉：变革的领袖”已经成为罗莎白新书的一个章节那本书名为：《信心:创造成功的循环》并且信心:创造成功的循环》一书被列入纽约《Times》商业领域的畅销榜并位居前列为什么我要跟大家讲这故事呢？因为在那之后，我去了SABC面试SABC是一个泛非洲的广播公司，他们问到我“你在这里面学到了什么？或者你最喜欢的是什么？&quot;对于编写这样一个案例的项目是非常荣耀的事情我学到的东西自于非洲，一个非洲的故事。然后用它与世界各国分享分享公司转型中的基准点是什么非洲已经被作为一个成功的实例
en:Now the case, &quot;Nelson Mandela: Change Leader,&quot;became part of the research base for a chapterin Rosabeth&#39;s new book called &quot;Confidence.&quot;And &quot;Confidence&quot; became a New York Times bestsellerand topped Business Week&#39;s hardcover bestseller list.And why I tell you this story is because later, when I was interviewedon SABC Africa, on a pan-African broadcast, they asked,&quot;What is your key lesson, or the key thing you enjoy the most?&quot; —because it was a huge privilege to be part of such a project.The lesson from that was that it was Africa — an African story —that was used to share news with the rest of the worldof what the benchmark can be for corporate turnarounds.Africa was being used as a success story!
时间： 4:01
zh-cn:我想和大家分享下我个人的故事一个关于变革或者转变的故事这事情就发生在我身上在1994年，我打包收拾我的行李并中断学业去周游那是我大学学业进行一半时候你们可以想象我父母的反应！
en:So I want to share with you a personal storyabout a turnaround or a transformation.And that has to do with mebecause in 1994, I packed a few things into a backpackand headed off for a year of travelin the middle of my university career.You should have seen my parents&#39; reaction!
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:（笑)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:但很快我一个来至自非洲南部的人—南非—-抵达了非洲的最北端，埃及我拼命的去最远的地方第一站来到了锡瓦绿洲—我其中的一个落脚点锡瓦绿洲之所以出名有很多因素，但最关键的地方在此处是亚历山大帝来过此处寻找他的神谕传说中，亚历山大长途跋涉的穿越沙漠一半的军队在沙尘爆覆没在神话中，亚历山大得到神谕表明它是命中注定的君主（君权神受）这是公元300年前因此非洲在自古以来就是一个寻找答案的地方
en:But very soon, I found myself from the southern part of Africa,in South Africa — at the very north, in Egypt.And I sought out the most remote places.I went to the Siwa Oasis. That was one of my stops.And the Siwa Oasis is famous for several things,but the key thing is that it was the placethat Alexander the Great went towhen he wanted to find out what his destiny had in store for him.And legend has it that Alexander trekked through this desert.Half his battalion was wiped out in the sandstorm.And myth says that he had an audience with the oracle,and it foretold his destiny of greatness.This was 300 BC.So Africa had long been seen as a place to go to for answers.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:现在，我能想起关于锡瓦的就是它迷人夜色天空没有非自然的光源，锡瓦就是这样一个迷人的地方一抬头就看到天空如锦画一般到了2002年我来到马萨诸州的剑桥参加一个保健发展的会议我看到了类似的景色，不过那是相反的景色这是一张从卫星上观测地球的图像那张图片深深震撼了我以致于让我无法忘怀。那一刻便记住了和大家分享下在那一刻我看到了什么样的景色第一个图片是我看到的北美的夜色—-灯火通明，暖洋洋的灯光
en:Now, the thing I remember about Siwawas the magical view of the sky at night.With no natural light source, Siva is one of these amazing placesthat when you look up you see a perfect tapestry.Fast forward to 2002.I&#39;m sitting in Cambridge, Massachusettsat the Healthcare Development Conference.And I see the same picture, but from the opposite side.A satellite picture looking down at the earth.And it was that picture that made such a profound impact on mebecause I&#39;ll never forget it. I remember the very moment.And I wanted to share that image with you of what I saw at that point.The first thing that I saw was North America at night —glowing, in all its glory. A warm feeling. Light.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:然后我看到—-非洲。毫不夸张的“黑暗大陆”（非洲的代称）。那一刻非洲是黑暗的它给清楚说明的表明一个信息也是我们正在面临的挑战但同时也是机会因为尽管非洲可能是黑暗的—相对于它的北面、南面或者地区上的其它地方—-相对于那些灯火通明的核心地区的成千上万的人民企业家，精力充沛的人，充满希望的人正如乔治.金布尔,一个地理学家所说“我们觉得非洲只有黑色的，根源是我们的无知”让我们开始照亮这片土地虽然光已很多了
en:And then I saw it — Africa. Quite literally the &quot;Dark Continent.&quot;And while Africa may be dark,the thing that brought the message home to mewas that this is the challenge we are facing,but it&#39;s also the opportunity.Because whilst Africa may be dark — other than the few specksthat exist north and in the south and other areas —it&#39;s aglow with the light in the heartsof the millions of people that are there.Entrepreneurs, dynamic people, people with hope.It was George Kimble, the geographer, who saidthat, &quot;The only thing dark about Africa is our ignorance of it.&quot;So let&#39;s start shedding light on this amazing eclectic continentthat has so much to offer.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:我们开始解构。非洲是世界上第二大洲，一个仅次于亚洲的第二大个大陆。是世界上第二大人口的地区拥有9亿人口事实上，从大陆面积看—-非洲如此之大以至可以把美国，中国，还有整个欧洲塞在这里，依然还有空间非洲是一个有超过1000种语言的家庭—也有人估计有超过2000种语言和方言你可能说“投资在非洲这样超过1000种语言的地方，根本没有什么效果但数据又是怎么说的？作为一个银行家，我总处于各种交错的信息中处于瞬息万变资本市场我想和你们分享下这些变革前的预兆，或者说信号也可以说是改革的风向
en:Let&#39;s start unpacking it.Africa is the second-largest continent, a landmass second from Asia.It also is the second most populated continent,with 900 million people.In fact — coming back to the land mass — Africa is so bigthat you could fit in the continental United States,China, and the entire Europe into Africa, and still have space.Africa is home to over 1,000 languages —2,000 is another estimate that&#39;s out there —with over 2,000 languages and dialects.But you could say, &quot;Invest in Africa in over 1,000 languages,and it wouldn&#39;t make a difference.&quot;What does the data say?As an investment banker, I&#39;m in the cross-flow of informationand the changes that are taking place in capital markets.So I want to share with you some of these bellwether signals, or signs,and winds of change that are sweeping this continent.
时间： 7:42
zh-cn:我们就从这里谈起以一个高层次的宏观因素入手一般的，整个非洲的通货膨胀都在下降这是第一个信号—在很多国家已经达到两位数的通货膨胀我们在看看这些国家我称它们为：Z.E.N群集赞比亚：从2004年到2006年，通货膨胀由18%降低到9%埃及：由16%降低到8.4%尼日利亚,情况相同从16降低到8%更有意思的是，其它的国家如南非，毛里求斯,纳米比亚—都处在个位数中这只是故事的一部分。类似的还有货币—货币已经度过了极端的时期慢慢趋于平稳.不过这只是在全局上看到的同时，在第一个观念，非洲并不是一个国家.非洲只是一个统称—
en:So let&#39;s start on that.And let&#39;s start at the high level, on the macro-factors.Inflation, in general, is coming down across Africa —that&#39;s the first sign —in many countries reaching double-digit figures.So let&#39;s start looking at some of those.I call it my Z.E.N. cluster.Zambia: from 2004 to 2006, moves from the 18 percent in inflationto the nine percent.Egypt: from the 16 percent to about 8.4 percent.Nigeria: a similar situation,from the 16 percent to the eight percent. Single digits.More fascinating, you have other countries — South Africa,Mauritius, Namibia — all in single digits.But that&#39;s just part of the story. You have a similar trend with currencies —currencies going through an extreme time of stability.But that&#39;s looking at the big picture.And the first myth to dispel is that Africa is not a country.It&#39;s made up —
时间： 8:47
zh-cn:（鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
时间： 8:48
zh-cn:它是由53个不同的国家组成.因此可以肯定是—-称&quot;投资非洲&quot;完全不合适.也无意义。因为每个国家有自己独立的主张。你可以在非洲赚到钱，也可能赔钱。但是机会，大家伙啊，大家伙，机会可是存在的.这就是我们今天要探讨的—探讨这些机会。好的，我们开始看这些国家的用数据、材料来说我最近被推选为北美非洲商会的会长。能当选我很荣幸，也很光荣.因为它是一个吸引人的角色.我说这些话只是想促进那些想来非洲发展的公司第一个我们先来谈点关于南非的事情但不是关于我们经常谈论到的南非—-那些黄金、矿物和基础设施建设谈的是与这些无关的东西
en:It&#39;s made up of 53 different countries.So the very definition — to say &quot;invest in Africa&quot; is a no-go.It&#39;s meaningless.Each country has a unique value proposition.You can make money, you can lose money in Africa.But opportunities, boy oh boy, they exist.And this is what today is about —it&#39;s about discussing those very opportunities.So let&#39;s start getting into the countriesand into the specific material and data.I was recently elected, as Emeka mentioned,as the President of the South African Chamber of Commerce in America.And I&#39;m very proud and happy to be in that rolebecause it is a fascinating position to be in.To hear this dialogue that&#39;s just increasing in tenor and velocity,of decisions about trade and companies wanting to come.So the first port of call: let&#39;s talk a little bit about South Africa.But not the South Africa we always talk about —the gold, the minerals, the First World infrastructure —a bit about the other side of it.
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:例如：南非现在被1000个英国公司评选为最佳呼叫离岸呼叫中心.相同的语言、时区等等。这毫无疑问。最近南非的头条新闻是私募领域大老的贝恩资本和KKR资本抵达南非南非的新闻头条是：“狼来了！”非常悲观但他们去哪里干嘛呢？为了获得资产获取Edcon公司的股份，Edcon是当地一家很大的零售商这些事实表明他们开启了它们的商业进程因为这是一个真正的长期投资作为一个零售商，它坚信一个中产阶层的数目会持续增加相信消费者的信心会增加但是关于非洲，我关注的领域。远不止南非，因为那么有太多这样正在发生的事情毫无疑问，尼日利亚是一个明显的热点。挑战—下来四天我们将会听到更多多关于尼日利亚的事情。
en:For example, South Africa was recently voted as the top destinationfor the top 1,000 UK companies for offshore call-centers.Same language, timeline, et cetera. Makes sense.Other headlines that have recently reached South Africawere Bain Capital and KKR, the big boys of private equity.Headline in South Africa: &quot;They have landed.&quot; Quite ominous.But what were they there for? To acquire assets.Bing Capital&#39;s acquisition of Edcon, a large retailer, is testimonyto the confidence they are starting to place in the economy.Because it is actually a long-term play.Being a retailer, it is a play on the beliefthat this middle-class that&#39;s growing will continue to grow,that the boom and the confidence in consumer spending will continue.But the story of Africa, and my focus, is beyond South Africabecause there&#39;s so much happening.Undoubtedly, Nigeria is clearly a hot spot.Challenges — and we will hear a lot about Nigeria in these four days.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:但看看高盛投资做的工作—-我们有著名的“金砖四国”的报告。最新的报告，“N-11”，凸显出2020年尼日利亚会成为世界前10内的经济体。这是一个投资机会，考虑下有没有人—我们的银行家，我们的投资者—-认真考虑去尼日利亚呢？如果你还没有，这又为什么呢？尼日利亚正在发生什么事情？很多。我想从资本市场的角度上谈论这个接着从领先企业的信号来看看信托担保银行最近发行第一个欧洲债券在非洲之外，但不包括南非第一个欧洲债券，促使了国际离岸资本摆脱了它们自己的收支平衡，没有任何主权国家担保这是一个经济领域发生的迹象没有任何主权国家担保一个尼日利亚公司募集到了资金它仅仅是一个将要发生变化的信号
en:But looking at Goldman Sachs&#39; work — we had the famous BRIC Report.The new report, &quot;The Next Eleven,&quot; highlights that by 2020Nigeria is going to be amongst the top 10 economies in the world.It&#39;s an investment opportunity. Think about that.Is anyone — our banks, our investors —seriously thinking about going to Nigeria?If you haven&#39;t, why not?What&#39;s going on in Nigeria? A couple of things.I want to talk about it from the perspective of capital markets.Bellwether signs again.Guarantee Trust Bank recently issued the first Euro Bondout of Africa, and this excludes South Africa.But the first Eurobond, the raising of international capitaloffshore, off its own balance sheet,without any sovereign backing —that is an indication of the confidence that is taking place in that economy.Without any sovereign backing,a Nigerian company raising capital offshore.It&#39;s just a sign of things to come.
时间：11:52
zh-cn:再看一看石油行业，非洲提供了18%的美国石油供应量，而中东仅仅是16%它是一个很重要的战略伙伴我们全面的看下尼日利亚每天220～240万桶的石油与科威特、委内瑞拉相同但在非洲，我们开始谨慎对待这个事情Emeka和我曾经讨论过这个事情我们不得不离开被称为“日用品的诅咒”因为它无关于石油，无关于日用品对非洲而言真的需要可持续性我们必须跨出到其他行业
en:Looking at the oil industry, Africa provides 18 percentof the U.S.&#39;s oil supply, with the Middle East just 16 percent.It&#39;s an important strategic partner.Let&#39;s put Nigeria in perspective.2.2 to 2.4 million barrels of oil a day —the same league as Kuwait, the same league as Venezuela.But with Africa, let&#39;s start being careful about this.And Emeka and I have had these discussions.We have to move away from what&#39;s called &quot;the curse of the commodities.&quot;Because it&#39;s not about oil, it&#39;s not about commodities.For Africa to truly be sustainable,we have to move beyond to other industries.
时间：12:29
zh-cn:我们也将会很快的摆脱掉而我自己也正在快速的撤离这个领域因为我已经看到了开始在倒计时了下来还要谈的是哪个国家？埃及埃及是一个正在腾飞的大的工业区域2.8亿的投资上周刚刚公布的消息在靠近地中海，亚历山大市附近纺织品，石化正被一个新加坡公司所控制他们想成为一个工业大国拥有各个行业—-以摆脱石油
en:So let&#39;s unpack those very quickly,and I&#39;m going to move through these very, very, very fastbecause I can see that clock counting down.What else is going on there? Egypt.Egypt is launching a first large industrial zone —2.8 billion investment.The announcement just came out the last few weeks.Close to the Mediterranean, near Alexandria —textiles, petrochemicals.It&#39;s being managed by a Singaporean-based management company.So they want to emerge as an industrial powerhouseacross the industries — away from oil.
时间：13:02
zh-cn:再看一看农业，我们看下森林那里又在发生什么？坦桑尼亚上一周颁布东非有机产品标准在东非，农场主和利益相关者再一次团结起来以达到有机农产品的标准。因为可以卖出更好的价钱。这与小规模的农场主一致在标准的条款中，无农药，无杀虫剂。再一次，机会在于满足市场需求乌干达:新的森林公司重新耕作和开发他们的森林。为什么要这么做呢？用来满足能源和电力的需求用于延伸电网的电线杆但这只是整个生意里面的一丁点他们打算进一步深入挖掘碳排放信用额我们再回过来看看尼日利亚银行业发生巨大的蜕变从80家银行到25家，虽然巩固了整个系统但那将会发生什么呢？整个国家只有10%的地方有银行尼日利亚是非洲人口最多的国家超过1.35亿的人口，想像下整个国家只有700台ATM取款机。机会！
en:Let&#39;s look at agriculture. Let&#39;s look at forestry.What&#39;s going on there?In Tanzania last week, we had the launchof the East African Organic Produce Standard.Again, gathering together farmers, gathering together stakeholdersin East Africa to get standards for organic produce. Better prices.It ties in with small-scale farmersin terms of no pesticides, no fertilizers.Again, opportunity to tackle markets to get that higher price.Uganda: the New Forest Company,replanting and redeveloping their forests. Why is that important?As the energy needs are met and electricity is needed [we will need]poles for rolling out electricity.But here is the sweetener in the deal.They&#39;re going to be tapping into carbon credits.Let&#39;s go back to Nigeria.The banking sector has undergone tremendous transformation,from over 80 banks to 25 banks. Strengthening of the system.But what&#39;s going on there? Only 10 percent of the country is banked.The largest population in Africa is in Nigeria.135 million-plus people. Think about that.There are only 700 ATMs in the country. Opportunity.
时间：14:25
zh-cn:对于整个国家的通讯也是如此我们来整体看看非洲大陆人们一看到马路，比如，就会说到&quot;安哥拉：90%的马路没有沥青，哦，真糟糕！”对于运输货物来讲，价格就会飙升上去。然后导致通货膨胀尼日利亚：70%的马路没有沥青。赞比亚：80%大部分情况，超过50%的马路没有沥青。这是一个机会！能源需求—一个机会那么从正在根本性转变中的信号是什么呢？我们看看非洲的股票交易市场吧如果我问你，“2005年中，全世界表现最好的股票市场或者期货市场在哪里？”你能想到是埃及吗？在2005年，埃及股市—股票交易所—回报率超过145%而同期在其它国家呢？我们再看看2006年的数字。肯尼亚：超过60%。尼日利亚：超过40%南非：20%。这都是比较高的数字。这就是正在发生的趋势在任何投资决策中，有一个关键的问题就是，&quot;什么是我的另类投资？&quot;
en:The same for telecoms across the country.Now let&#39;s look at the continent as a whole.People look at the roads, for example, and they&#39;d say,&quot;Angola: 90 percent of roads are untarred. Ah, problem!&quot;It&#39;s more expensive to transport goods. Prices of goods go up,inflation is affected.Nigeria: 70 percent of roads are untarred. Zambia: 80 percent.In general, more than 50 percent of roads are untarred.This is an opportunity! Energy needs — it&#39;s an opportunity.So what are the signs that things are fundamentally changing?Let&#39;s look at the stock markets in Africa.If I had to ask you, &quot;In 2005 what was the best performing stock marketor stock exchange in the world?&quot; Would Egypt come to mind?In 2005, the Egyptian stock exchange returned over 145 percent.What&#39;s going on in some of the other countries?Let&#39;s look at some 2006 numbers. Kenya: over 60 percent. Nigeria: over 40 percent.South Africa: in the 20 percents. High ones.These are the trends that are taking place.But in any investment decision, the key question is,&quot;What is my alternative investment?&quot;
时间：15:43
zh-cn:因为今日的非洲，我们和全球的资本市场竞争。同时全球的资本不可知—因为他没有特许费美国则是资本过剩，问题出在收益率上。非洲能提供多元化的组合以给投资者提高收益率能够意识到他或者她正在做什么好的，我们拿非洲和其它地方向比较也拿非洲中的国家进行比较对比显得很重要10年以前，我们只有少数的国家能够获得标准普尔，穆迪还有惠誉的独立评级今天，已有16个非洲的国家获得国家评级，这又意味着什么？再以尼日利亚为例：它得到乌克兰和土耳其的两个B-.很快我们就有个对比为全球主流金融资本持有者提供投资决策参考也有人指出。南非：3 个B-.波扎那:A-+布基纳法索:B-等等
en:Because in Africa today, we are competing globally for capital.And global capital is agnostic — it has no loyalties.There&#39;s an overhang of capital in the U.S., and the key is yield pickup.What Africa is providing is a diversification play,and also opportunities for yield pickup for the investorthat&#39;s aware of what he or she is doing.Now, when looking at Africa vis-a-vis other things,and countries in Africa vis-a-vis other things,comparisons become important.10 years ago there, were very few countriesthat received sovereign ratings fromthe Standard &amp; Poors, Moody&#39;s and Fitch&#39;s.Today, 16 African countries and growinghave sovereign country ratings. What does this mean?Take Nigeria again: double B-minus —in the league of Ukraine and Turkey. Immediately we have a comparison.The backbone of making investment decisionsfor global holders of capital.Some other figures. South Africa: triple B-plus. Botswana: A-plus.Bakino Faso: B-minus. And so on.
时间：16:48
zh-cn:实际上，全球最大的一个经纪公司正在非洲设立办公室他们为什么要这么做？因为他们想跟进投资。其中一个带头大哥也就是我最后一个想提及的，也是我认为最有意思的：CNBC（美国全国广播公司财经频道)已经启动第一个非洲频道。CNBC为什么要这么做？它是一个24小时滚动播放非洲新闻的频道之所以这么做他们期待大事件发生我还有你，我们这些做投资的人还有全世界在做投资的人从那里可以得到24小时的非洲新闻这就是变化，从头到尾的变化
en:In fact, one of the big agencies is setting up an office in Africa.Why are they doing that? Because they expect investment to follow.So one of the big bellwethers,and one of my final points I want to mention, isthe interesting thing I read is that CNBChas launched their first African channel. Why is CNBC doing this?It&#39;s the 24-hour rolling African news channel.They&#39;re doing it because they are expecting things to happen.Me and you, the investments we are going to be making,the investments the world is going to be making —that&#39;s the 24-hour news channel dedicated to Africa.So that&#39;s the change that&#39;s coming down the pipeline.
时间：17:32
zh-cn:最后，我想简单回顾下这些年来对我深远影响的事情这一次我给你们看看我在2002年所看到的完整张图片也问下你什么时候你也考虑下自己在非洲可以是什么角色思考下你的旅途是否给这篇大陆带来光明因为这里有太多惊人的机会也思考下变革的概念印在你的脑海里因为有些事情很难一下转变过来
en:So in conclusion, I want to turn back to that very slidethat made such a deep impact on me all those years ago.This time [I&#39;ll] give you the entire picture that I saw in 2002,and ask you that when you think about what your role can be in Africa,think about your journey in terms of bringing light to this continent.Because there are amazing opportunities available.And think about the concept of transformationin the back of your mindbecause things can be turned around rather quickly.
时间：18:08
zh-cn:1989年，约瑟夫·康拉德发行了《黑暗之心》一书一个冷酷的英雄在刚果河的故事假如有人注意到的话，刚果河也是带来光亮的。这是真正的刚果河发出光—那古老的黑暗之心—正在利用水来发电这也是一个转换电力的看法到下一阶段，接下来的四天里我们会探讨更多这样的想法或许，如果你能保存这张图片在你的大脑中不久的将来，到2020年我们再次相聚这个图片将会看起来非常不同谢谢
en:In 1899, Joseph Conrad released &quot;The Heart of Darkness,&quot;a tale of grim horror along the Congo River.If one looks carefully, on the Congo Riveris one of those bright lights. And that&#39;s the very Congo rivergenerating light — the old heart of darknessnow generating light with hydro-electric power.That is a transformation in power of ideas.So the next step, over the next four days,is us exploring more of these ideas.And perchance, if you can always keep this picture in your mind,that when we convene maybe in the distant future, in 2020,that picture will look very different.Thank you.
时间：18:57
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
