时间： 0:13
zh-cn:谢谢各位！非常荣幸能够站在这里与大家分享我19岁的最后一天今天我想跟大家谈谈未来但是首先我要用一点时间讲讲我过去的经历这个故事要从我出生之前讲起我的外祖母曾经在开往死亡集中营奥斯维辛的一辆火车上火车顺着轨道开呀开，开到一个轨道分叉处然后不知怎么地——没人知道倒底怎么回事——总之火车开上了错误的轨道，开到了一处劳动集中营，而不是奥斯维辛我的外祖母就这样幸免于难，然后嫁给了我的外祖父他们住在匈牙利时，生下了我母亲我母亲两岁的时候匈牙利革命爆发，于是外祖父母决定离开匈牙利他们上了一条船，又一次的阴差阳错这条船可能开往加拿大或者是澳大利亚他们上船的时候并不知道会到哪里, 最后船把他们送去了加拿大嗯，长话短说，他们到了加拿大我的外祖母是一名化学家，她在多伦多的班廷研究所工作44岁时死于胃癌，所以我并没有机会亲眼见到她但是我继承了她的名字——伊娃·韦尔泰什我想我也继承了她对科学的热情
en:Thank you. It&#39;s really an honor and a privilege to be herespending my last day as a teenager.Today I want to talk to you about the future, butfirst I&#39;m going to tell you a bit about the past.My story starts way before I was born.My grandmother was on a train to Auschwitz, the death camp.And she was going along the tracks, and the tracks split.And somehow — we don&#39;t really know exactly the whole story — butthe train took the wrong track and went to a work camp rather than the death camp.My grandmother survived and married my grandfather.They were living in Hungary, and my mother was born.And when my mother was two years old,the Hungarian revolution was raging, and they decided to escape Hungary.They got on a boat, and yet another divergence —the boat was either going to Canada or to Australia.They got on and didn&#39;t know where they were going, and ended up in Canada.So, to make a long story short, they came to Canada.My grandmother was a chemist. She worked at the Banting Institute in Toronto,and at 44 she died of stomach cancer. I never met my grandmother,but I carry on her name — her exact name, Eva Vertes —and I like to think I carry on her scientific passion, too.
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:事实上, 我找到热情的地方离这儿并不远, 那年我九岁我们全家一起自驾游到美国大峡谷在那之前我一直都不喜欢阅读爸爸曾让我试着读一下哈迪男孩，我自己也试着读过南希·朱尔我全都试过了, 但我就是不喜欢读书在大峡谷时我母亲买了一本书给我叫做”高危地带“，讲的是埃博拉病毒的爆发我被其中的某些部分吸引住了书的封面是一张表面崎岖不平的病毒的图片我突然有了阅读它的欲望，我拿起了这本书接下来的旅途中, 从大峡谷边缘到大瑟尔，再到我们今天所在的蒙特雷我一直在读这本书，从那时起我就知道我要把医学作为我一生的追求我想要像书中的探险家一样深入非洲的丛林走进实验室，试着搞清楚这种致命的病毒到底是什么，从那开始，我读遍了所有我可以找到的医学书籍并且深深沉迷于此在医学的世界里，我是个被动的学习者
en:I found this passion not far from here, actually, when I was nine years old.My family was on a road trip and we were in the Grand Canyon.And I had never been a reader when I was young —my dad had tried me with the Hardy Boys; I tried Nancy Drew;I tried all that — and I just didn&#39;t like reading books.And my mother bought this book when we were at the Grand Canyoncalled &quot;The Hot Zone.&quot; It was all about the outbreak of the Ebola virus.And something about it just kind of drew me towards it.There was this big sort of bumpy-looking virus on the cover,and I just wanted to read it. I picked up that book,and as we drove from the edge of the Grand Canyonto Big Sur, and to, actually, here where we are today, in Monterey,I read that book, and from when I was reading that book,I knew that I wanted to have a life in medicine.I wanted to be like the explorers I&#39;d read about in the book,who went into the jungles of Africa,went into the research labs and just tried to figure outwhat this deadly virus was. So from that moment on, I read every medical bookI could get my hands on, and I just loved it so much.I was a passive observer of the medical world.
时间： 2:51
zh-cn:一直到了高中，我才想到”我已经是高中生了,或许从现在开始我可以动手做点儿什么了”那时我14岁，我给当地大学的教授发了很多封邮件看看有没有可能在他们的实验室里工作，几乎没有人给我答复但是，他们也没有理由理会一个14岁的小丫头片子，对吧？然后我找到雅各布斯教授, 跟他谈了谈他同意我进实验室那时，我对神经科学很有兴趣希望能研究一项有关神经病学的课题尤其是研究重金属对发育中的神经系统的影响我花了一年的时间去研究最后得到了大家都能想到的结果如果给果蝇的食物中加入重金属——将会导致很严重的神经系统损伤脊髓会折断, 神经元也会随意交叉从那时起我就把重点转移到了该如何预防损伤上面
en:It wasn&#39;t until I entered high school that I thought,&quot;Maybe now, you know — being a big high school kid —I can maybe become an active part of this big medical world.&quot;I was 14, and I emailed professors at the local universityto see if maybe I could go work in their lab. And hardly anyone responded.But I mean, why would they respond to a 14-year-old, anyway?And I got to go talk to one professor, Dr. Jacobs,who accepted me into the lab.At that time, I was really interested in neuroscienceand wanted to do a research project in neurology —specifically looking at the effects of heavy metals on the developing nervous system.So I started that, and worked in his lab for a year,and found the results that I guess you&#39;d expect to findwhen you feed fruit flies heavy metals — that it really, really impaired the nervous system.The spinal cord had breaks. The neurons were crossing in every which way.And from then I wanted to look not at impairment, but at prevention of impairment.
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:这件事激发了我对阿尔茨海默氏症的兴趣。我开始阅读相关的资料并使自己的熟悉相关的研究在同一时间，当我在......有一天，我在医学图书馆读到一篇文章是关于嘌呤衍生物的他们似乎有促进细胞生长的功能在对这整个领域几乎一无所知的情况下，我试想“哦，阿尔茨海默症中会有细胞死亡这导致了记忆减退，现在有这种化合物——嘌呤衍生物——可以促进细胞的生长。“所以我想，“如果它能促进细胞生长，它也可以抑制细胞死亡。“那一年我都在研究这种可能性研究进行的很顺利我发现了一种叫做胍的嘌呤衍生物可以抑制约60%的细胞生长我向国际科学博览会提交了这项成果，这是我一生中最难忘的经历之一我被授予“世界最佳医学”荣誉这使我进入了，或者至少迈出了我在医学研究领域的第一步
en:So that&#39;s what led me to Alzheimer&#39;s. I started reading about Alzheimer&#39;sand tried to familiarize myself with the research,and at the same time when I was in the —I was reading in the medical library one day, and I read this articleabout something called &quot;purine derivatives.&quot;And they seemed to have cell growth-promoting properties.And being naive about the whole field, I kind of thought,&quot;Oh, you have cell death in Alzheimer&#39;swhich is causing the memory deficit, and then you have this compound —purine derivatives — that are promoting cell growth.&quot;And so I thought, &quot;Maybe if it can promote cell growth,it can inhibit cell death, too.&quot;And so that&#39;s the project that I pursued for that year,and it&#39;s continuing now as well,and found that a specific purine derivative called &quot;guanidine&quot;had inhibited the cell growth by approximately 60 percent.So I presented those results at the International Science Fair,which was just one of the most amazing experiences of my life.And there I was awarded &quot;Best in the World in Medicine,&quot;which allowed me to get in, or at least get a foot in the door of the big medical world.
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:从那时起，既然我进入了这个精彩纷呈的世界我想探索一切。我希望能马上了解一切，但也知道很难做到这一点一个偶然的机会我了解到癌症干细胞的存在这也是我今天真正想和大家讨论的主题——癌症起初，我听到癌症干细胞这个名词我真的不知道“癌症”和“干细胞”这两者是如何结合起来的。我听说的干细胞，是未来的灵丹妙药——假以时日, 或许可以治愈许多疾病但是，我也听说癌症是这个时代最可怕的疾病所以好的和坏的究竟是怎么结合到一起的？去年夏天，我到斯坦福大学做了一些有关癌症干细胞的研究这段时间，我读了很多有关癌症的文献试图让自己熟悉这一新的医学领域。我了解到, 肿瘤确实是从干细胞开始的这使我着迷。我读的文献越多，对癌症的的了解就越多几乎不再惧怕癌症了
en:And from then on, since I was now in this huge exciting world,I wanted to explore it all. I wanted it all at once, but knew I couldn&#39;t really get that.And I stumbled across something called &quot;cancer stem cells.&quot;And this is really what I want to talk to you about today — about cancer.At first when I heard of cancer stem cells,I didn&#39;t really know how to put the two together. I&#39;d heard of stem cells,and I&#39;d heard of them as the panacea of the future —the therapy of many diseases to come in the future, perhaps.But I&#39;d heard of cancer as the most feared disease of our time,so how did the good and bad go together?Last summer I worked at Stanford University, doing some research on cancer stem cells.And while I was doing this, I was reading the cancer literature,trying to — again — familiarize myself with this new medical field.And it seemed that tumors actually begin from a stem cell.This fascinated me. The more I read, the more I looked at cancer differentlyand almost became less fearful of it.
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:研究表明，癌症是由损伤直接导致的如果你吸烟，损害了你的肺部组织，就会引起肺癌。如果你喝酒，损害了你的肝脏，就会引起肝癌。有趣的是, 很多文献中都有相似的研究结果如果你骨折，就会引起骨瘤。起因是干细胞的特性——这些惊人细胞的确有分化的能力在任何类型的组织中。因此，如果身体感应到有受损器官它就按下了癌症的启动按钮，把它当成一种修复反应身体说肺组织受到了损害需要修复,癌症便由此而生试图修复的过程中, 这些细胞会过度增生这些细胞有成为肺组织的潜力不过, 好像身体引发了这个巧妙的反应程序却不能完全控制它它不能精确调整这个已经开始的过程因此，这真的，真的使我着迷。
en:It seems that cancer is a direct result to injury.If you smoke, you damage your lung tissue, and then lung cancer arises.If you drink, you damage your liver, and then liver cancer occurs.And it was really interesting — there were articles correlatingif you have a bone fracture, and then bone cancer arises.Because what stem cells are — they&#39;re thesephenomenal cells that really have the ability to differentiateinto any type of tissue.So, if the body is sensing that you have damage to an organand then it&#39;s initiating cancer, it&#39;s almost as if this is a repair response.And the cancer, the body is saying the lung tissue is damaged,we need to repair the lung. And cancer is originating in the lungtrying to repair — because you have this excessive proliferationof these remarkable cells that really have the potential to become lung tissue.But it&#39;s almost as if the body has originated this ingenious response,but can&#39;t quite control it.It hasn&#39;t yet become fine-tuned enough to finish what has been initiated.So this really, really fascinated me.
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:我真的认为，我们不能用非黑即白的眼光来看待癌症——更不用说是其他疾病了如果我们用化疗和放疗去治愈癌症我们在用毒素或辐射轰击身体或癌细胞，试图杀死它。这可能会让我们回到起点。我们是在消除癌细胞，但同时身体也会试图修复这些一再被揭开的损伤我们是不是应该思考如何控制癌细胞，而不是消除它们？如果我们可以想办法使这些细胞分化成为骨组织，肺组织，肝组织，不管哪个部位的癌细胞那将会是一个修复损伤的过程。我们会得到比以前治疗更好的结果。因此，这确实改变了我对癌症的看法。当我在阅读癌症的相关文献时，发现其中很多文献都把重点放在乳腺癌的基因和乳腺癌的成因与发展在身体中追踪癌症，跟踪它，看看它会扩散到哪里。
en:And I really think that we can&#39;t think about cancer —let alone any disease — in such black-and-white terms.If we eliminate cancer the way we&#39;re trying to do now, with chemotherapy and radiation,we&#39;re bombarding the body or the cancer with toxins, or with radiation, trying to kill it.It&#39;s almost as if we&#39;re getting back to this starting point.We&#39;re removing the cancer cells, but we&#39;re revealing the previous damagethat the body has tried to fix.Shouldn&#39;t we think about manipulation, rather than elimination?If somehow we can cause these cells to differentiate —to become bone tissue, lung tissue, liver tissue,whatever that cancer has been put there to do —it would be a repair process. We&#39;d end up better than we were before cancer.So, this really changed my view of looking at cancer.And while I was reading all these articles about cancer,it seemed that the articles — a lot of them — focused on, you know,the genetics of breast cancer, and the genesisand the progression of breast cancer —tracking the cancer through the body, tracing where it is, where it goes.
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:但让我吃惊的是，我从没听过心脏癌这种说法或骨骼肌癌这种东西骨骼肌构成我们身体的50%或超过50%。因此，起初我想，“嗯，也许有某种显而易见的解释骨骼肌为什么不会发生癌症 - 至少我没听说过。“所以，我进一步调查它，我翻阅了所有能够找到的文献，结果令我吃惊——因为它确实是非常罕见的。一些文献甚至说，骨骼肌肉组织可以抵抗癌症，而且，不仅是癌症，还有癌症向骨骼肌的转移。癌症的转移是指部分癌细胞脱落，并随着血液流动进入一个不同的器官。这就叫做转移。这是癌症最危险的一点。如果癌症是局部的，我们有可能将其移除，或以某种方式控制它。这是可以做到的。但是，一旦它开始在整个身体种转移，结果将是致命的因此，癌症从不起源于骨骼肌，而且似乎也不会转移到骨骼肌的现象预示着骨骼肌具有某种特性很多研究结果表明“癌症转移到骨骼肌是非常罕见的。“但它们在这里止步了。没有人问为什么
en:But it struck me that I&#39;d never heard of cancer of the heart,or cancer of any skeletal muscle for that matter.And skeletal muscle constitutes 50 percent of our body,or over 50 percent of our body. And so at first I kind of thought,&quot;Well, maybe there&#39;s some obvious explanationwhy skeletal muscle doesn&#39;t get cancer — at least not that I know of.&quot;So, I looked further into it, found as many articles as I could,and it was amazing — because it turned out that it was very rare.Some articles even went as far as to say that skeletal muscle tissueis resistant to cancer, and furthermore, not only to cancer,but of metastases going to skeletal muscle.And what metastases are is when the tumor —when a piece — breaks off and travels through the blood streamand goes to a different organ. That&#39;s what a metastasis is.It&#39;s the part of cancer that is the most dangerous.If cancer was localized, we could likely remove it,or somehow — you know, it&#39;s contained. It&#39;s very contained.But once it starts moving throughout the body, that&#39;s when it becomes deadly.So the fact that not only did cancer not seem to originate in skeletal muscles,but cancer didn&#39;t seem to go to skeletal muscle —there seemed to be something here.So these articles were saying, you know, &quot;Skeletal —metastasis to skeletal muscle — is very rare.&quot;But it was left at that. No one seemed to be asking why.
时间：10:13
zh-cn:因此，我决定打破沙锅问到底。我做的第一件事是发电子邮件给一些研究骨骼肌的教授里面写道“嘿，看来癌症确实不会转移到骨骼肌这是为什么呢？“，我得到的答复大部分都是这样的肌肉是终末分化组织。这意味着你有肌肉细胞，但他们不会分裂，所以对癌症来说，它并不是一个好的攻击对象但话又说回来癌症没有转移到骨骼肌这一点使得这个解释变得不是那么可信再者，神经组织——脑 ——也会得癌症，而脑细胞也是终末分化组织。因此，我决定问为什么。这里还有一些我的假设今年5月，我将在迈阿密的西尔维斯特癌症研究所开始这项研究。而且我想我会继续调查，直到我得到答案。但我知道，在科学研究中，一旦你得到了答案，随之而来的是更多需要解答的问题。所以你可能猜到, 我很可能一生都会投身于科学研究中
en:So I decided to ask why. At first — the first thing I didwas I emailed some professors whospecialized in skeletal muscle physiology, and pretty much said,&quot;Hey, it seems like cancer doesn&#39;t really go to skeletal muscle.Is there a reason for this?&quot; And a lot of the replies I got were thatmuscle is terminally differentiated tissue.Meaning that you have muscle cells, but they&#39;re not dividing,so it doesn&#39;t seem like a good target for cancer to hijack.But then again, this fact that the metastasesdidn&#39;t go to skeletal muscle made that seem unlikely.And furthermore, that nervous tissue — brain — gets cancer,and brain cells are also terminally differentiated.So I decided to ask why. And here&#39;s some of, I guess, my hypothesesthat I&#39;ll be starting to investigate this May at the Sylvester Cancer Institute in Miami.And I guess I&#39;ll keep investigating until I get the answers.But I know that in science, once you get the answers,inevitably you&#39;re going to have more questions.So I guess you could say that I&#39;ll probably be doing this for the rest of my life.
时间：11:31
zh-cn:我的假设是当谈到骨骼肌你首先想到的是，有很多的血管通向骨骼肌。我思考的第一件事是，血管像是肿瘤细胞的公路。肿瘤细胞能够通过血管四处游弋。想一想，一个组织里有越多的”公路“，患癌症，或者癌症转移的的可能就越大。所以我首先想到的是，“骨骼肌里这么多的血管不是正中癌症下怀么？“同时，癌症肿瘤需要一个被称为血管生成的过程，这是真的，肿瘤利用血管为自己服务从中汲取营养，以便继续增长。如果没有血管生成过程，肿瘤会维持在很小的范围内，而不会形成威胁。因此，血管生成可以称得上是癌症的发病机制的核心进程。
en:Some of my hypotheses are thatwhen you first think about skeletal muscle,there&#39;s a lot of blood vessels going to skeletal muscle.And the first thing that makes me think is thatblood vessels are like highways for the tumor cells.Tumor cells can travel through the blood vessels.And you think, the more highways there are in a tissue,the more likely it is to get cancer or to get metastases.So first of all I thought, you know, &quot;Wouldn&#39;t it be favorableto cancer getting to skeletal muscle?&quot; And as well,cancer tumors require a process called angiogenesis,which is really, the tumor recruits the blood vessels to itselfto supply itself with nutrients so it can grow.Without angiogenesis, the tumor remains the size of a pinpoint and it&#39;s not harmful.So angiogenesis is really a central process to the pathogenesis of cancer.
时间：12:28
zh-cn:一篇文献引起了我的注意我读这篇文献，试图弄清楚为什么癌症不会发生在骨骼肌这篇文献说，解剖时发现骨骼肌里有16%的微转移16%！这意味着骨骼肌肿瘤中有小范围的肿瘤但只有0.16%的实际转移这表明骨骼肌也许是能够控制血管生成过程，从而能够控制肿瘤对血管的利用。我们这么频繁的使用骨骼肌。这是我们身体的一个部分我们的心脏不停跳动。我们的肌肉一直处在活跃状态难道肌肉隐隐约约的”感觉“到它需要血液供应？它需要不停地收缩因此，它几乎是自私的, 攫取血管为自己所用因此，当肿瘤进入骨骼肌肉组织的时候它不能获得血液供应，也就不能生长
en:And one article that really stood out to mewhen I was just reading about this, trying to figure out why cancer doesn&#39;t go to skeletalmuscle, was that it had reported 16 percent of micro-metastasesto skeletal muscle upon autopsy.16 percent! Meaning that there were these pinpoint tumors in skeletal muscle,but only .16 percent of actual metastases —suggesting that maybe skeletal muscle is able to control the angiogenesis,is able to control the tumors recruiting these blood vessels.We use skeletal muscles so much. It&#39;s the one portion of our body —our heart&#39;s always beating. We&#39;re always moving our muscles.Is it possible that muscle somehow intuitively knowsthat it needs this blood supply? It needs to be constantly contracting,so therefore it&#39;s almost selfish. It&#39;s grabbing its blood vessels for itself.Therefore, when a tumor comes into skeletal muscle tissue,it can&#39;t get a blood supply, and can&#39;t grow.
时间：13:31
zh-cn:这也许表明，如果在骨骼肌中有抗血管生成因子——或者更进一步存在控制血管生成的因子，可以调控血管生长的位置这可能会成为另一种治疗癌症的方法另一件很有趣的事情是，肿瘤在全身的移动是一个非常复杂的系统，包含所谓的”趋化因子网络“。趋化因子的本质是化学引诱物它们是癌症的红绿灯信号。因此，肿瘤表达为趋化因子受体另一器官——一个离肿瘤一定距离的器官——将有相应的趋化因子肿瘤会看到这些趋化因子，并朝向它转移有没有可能骨骼肌不表达这种类型的分子？还有一件事情很有趣,有几个报告都提到，当骨骼肌损伤和肿瘤向骨骼肌的转移密切相关
en:So this suggests that maybe if there is an anti-angiogenic factorin skeletal muscle — or perhaps even more,an angiogenic routing factor, so it can actually direct where the blood vessels grow —this could be a potential future therapy for cancer.And another thing that&#39;s really interesting is thatthere&#39;s this whole — the way tumors move throughout the body,it&#39;s a very complex system — and there&#39;s something called the chemokine network.And chemokines are essentially chemical attractants,and they&#39;re the stop and go signals for cancer.So a tumor expresses chemokine receptors,and another organ — a distant organ somewhere in the body —will have the corresponding chemokines,and the tumor will see these chemokines and migrate towards it.Is it possible that skeletal muscle doesn&#39;t express this type of molecules?And the other really interesting thing is thatwhen skeletal muscle — there&#39;s been several reports that when skeletalmuscle is injured, that&#39;s what correlates with metastases going to skeletal muscle.
时间：14:40
zh-cn:此外，当骨骼肌受伤时会导致趋化因子——这些信号说：“癌症，你可以来找我，”肿瘤的绿灯通行信号这会导致这些趋化因子的高效表达因此，这里有太多的相互作用我的意思是，有如此多的可能性可以解释为什么肿瘤不出现在骨骼肌中通过调查,攻击癌细胞还有搜索不会发生癌症的部位都预示一定有什么一定存在某种特性 - 使这种组织可以抗肿瘤那么我们能否利用 - 我们能否把这种特性用这种化合物，这种受体这种控制抗肿瘤特性的因子，来治疗癌症？现在，有一件事与骨骼肌的抗癌性有点关系这是对由身体的修复反应引起的癌症而言它就是骨骼肌中叫做MyoD的因子MyoD所做的就是，导致细胞分化成肌细胞因此，这种物质，MyoD，已在很多不同的细胞类型上做过测试，结果表明它可以将多种类型的细胞转化为骨骼肌细胞。因此，有可能肿瘤细胞已经进入骨骼肌肉组织，但一旦与骨骼肌内的组织接触，MyoD的作用于这些肿瘤细胞，使它们成为骨骼肌细胞？肿瘤细胞可能被伪装成骨骼肌细胞，这就是为什么它在骨骼肌中如此罕见。
en:And, furthermore, when skeletal muscle is injured,that&#39;s what causes chemokines — these signals saying,&quot;Cancer, you can come to me,&quot; the &quot;go signs&quot; for the tumors —it causes them to highly express these chemokines.So, there&#39;s so much interplay here.I mean, there are so many possibilitiesfor why tumors don&#39;t go to skeletal muscle.But it seems like by investigating, by attacking cancer,by searching where cancer is not, there has got to be something —there&#39;s got to be something — that&#39;s making this tissue resistant to tumors.And can we utilize — can we take this property,this compound, this receptor, whatever it is that&#39;s controlling theseanti-tumor properties and apply it to cancer therapy in general?Now, one thing that kind of ties the resistance of skeletal muscle to cancer —to the cancer as a repair response gone out of control in the body —is that skeletal muscle has a factor in it called &quot;MyoD.&quot;And what MyoD essentially does is, it causes cells to differentiateinto muscle cells. So this compound, MyoD,has been tested on a lot of different cell types and been shown toactually convert this variety of cell types into skeletal muscle cells.So, is it possible that the tumor cells are going to the skeletal muscle tissue,but once in contact inside the skeletal muscle tissue,MyoD acts upon these tumor cells and causes themto become skeletal muscle cells?Maybe tumor cells are being disguised as skeletal muscle cells,and this is why it seems as if it is so rare.
时间：16:40
zh-cn:这种肿瘤是无害的，它只是修复了肌肉的损伤。肌肉不断地被使用 - 不断地受到损坏如果我们每次肌肉撕裂或者每次以错误的方式拉伸肌肉癌症就会产生——我的意思是，几乎每个人都会有癌症我讨厌这么说。但是，肌肉细胞似乎可能是因为其使用方式比其他身体组织能更快地适应损伤并对其作出反应精确调节这一修复反应以完成整个过程达到身体本来的修复目的。我真的相信，人体是非常聪明的我们不能逆着身体的意愿行事
en:It&#39;s not harmful; it has just repaired the muscle.Muscle is constantly being used — constantly being damaged.If every time we tore a muscleor every time we stretched a muscle or moved in a wrong way,cancer occurred — I mean, everybody would have cancer almost.And I hate to say that. But it seems as though muscle cell,possibly because of all its use, has adaptedfaster than other body tissues to respond to injury,to fine-tune this repair response and actually be able to finish the processwhich the body wants to finish. I really believe that the human body is very,very smart, and we can&#39;t counteract something the body is saying to do.
时间：17:26
zh-cn:这与细菌进入人体的情况不同，细菌是外来的异物 - 我们希望将它赶出去但是，当人体启动了一个反应并演变成一种疾病消除它似乎不是正确的解决方案。因此，尽管牵强附会但今后，癌症有可能成为一种治疗方法。如果某些疾病中，组织正在恶化比如阿尔茨海默氏症中大脑细胞的死亡而我们需要新的具有功能的脑细胞我们可不可以利用癌症呢？把肿瘤放进大脑，并使其分化为脑细胞？
en:It&#39;s different when a bacteria comes into the body —that&#39;s a foreign object — we want that out.But when the body is actually initiating a processand we&#39;re calling it a disease, it doesn&#39;t seem as though elimination isthe right solution. So even to go from there, it&#39;s possible, although far-fetched,that in the future we could almost think of cancer being used as a therapy.If those diseases where tissues are deteriorating —for example Alzheimer&#39;s, where the brain, the brain cells, dieand we need to restore new brain cells, new functional brain cells —what if we could, in the future, use cancer? A tumor —put it in the brain and cause it to differentiate into brain cells?
时间：18:15
zh-cn:这是一个非常牵强的想法，但我真的相信这是可能的这些细胞是如此多才多艺，这些癌细胞是如此多才多艺 -我们只需要以正确的方式去使用它们再次声明，有些观点是有点牵强附会，但如果存在一个可以表达这些奇思异想的地方, 那么它就在这里, TED非常感谢
en:That&#39;s a very far-fetched idea, but I really believe that it may be possible.These cells are so versatile, these cancer cells are so versatile —we just have to manipulate them in the right way.And again, some of these may be far-fetched, butI figured if there&#39;s anywhere to present far-fetched ideas, it&#39;s here at TED, sothank you very much.
时间：18:39
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
