时间： 0:15
zh-cn:我是一个富有创造力的技术人员，我的工作是关注公共设备。带给我激情的源泉之一，是探索自然，努力去探寻自然中的隐藏数据。对与我来说，它隐藏在各个地方，我们身边到处都有。每个事物都散发某种数据，不管是声音，或者气味，或者是振动。在工作中我追踪溯源，最后，我发现了一个名叫cymatics的东西。现在，cymatics是一个使声音可视化的过程，大部分是通过振动一种介质，例如沙子，或者水，正如你所见。
en:I&#39;m a creative technologistand the focus of my work is on public installations.One of my driving passionsis this idea of exploring nature,and trying to find hidden data within nature.It seems to me that there isthis latent potential everywhere, all around us.Everything gives out some kind of data,whether it&#39;s sound or smell or vibration.Through my work, I&#39;ve beentrying to find ways to harness and unveil this.And so this basically led me toa subject called cymatics.Now, cymatics is the process of visualizing soundby basically vibrating a medium such as sand or water,as you can see there.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:单回顾cymtics的历史，观察回声现象的有达芬奇，伽里略, 英国科学家Robert Hook,还有Ernest Chladni.Ernest Chladni发明使用金属盘子做试验，首先将沙子覆盖金属盘子，然后弯曲盘子，就会出现大家在右侧看到的Chaldni图形。
en:So, if we have a quick look at the history of cymaticsbeginning with the observations of resonance,by Da Vinci, Galileo, the English scientist Robert Hookand then Ernest Chladni.He created an experiment using a metal plate,covering it with sand and then bowing itto create the Chladni patterns that you see here on the right.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:受此激发，探索这个领域的另一个人是上个世纪70年代的Hans Jenny先生，正是他创造了cymatics这个术语。带领我们进入现代cymatics领域的是我的一位同事兼合作者，cymatics专家John Stewart Reed。他帮助我们重现了Chaldni实验。我们眼前出现的是金属薄片，它与声音驱动器相连，随频率发生器振动。当频率增加时，薄片上的图案也变的更加复杂多变，正如你亲眼所见。（掌声）
en:Moving on from this, the next person to explore this fieldwas a gentleman called Hans Jenny in the 1970s.He actually coined the term cymatics.Then bringing us into the present dayis a fellow collaborator of mineand cymatics expert, John Stewart Reed.He&#39;s kindly recreated for usthe Chladni experiment.What we can see here isthe metal sheet, this time connected to a sound driverand being fed by a frequency generator.As the frequencies increase,so do the complexities of the patterns that appear on the plate.As you can see with your own eyes.(Applause)
时间： 2:03
zh-cn:cymatics使我激动的是什么？对与我来说，cymatics简直就是一个充满魔法的工具，是我们发现隐藏世界的眼镜。虽然cymatics可以应用在很多方面，但实际上我们从揭开不可见物质的面纱开始。cymascope这类的设备，就是你现在看见的，我们使用它来科学地观察cymatic图案。这个领域中每天都出现新的科学应用，
en:So, what excites me about cymatics?Well, for me cymatics is an almost magical tool.It&#39;s like a looking glass into a hidden world.Through the numerous ways that we can apply cymatics,we can actually start to unveil the substance of things not seen.Devices like the cymascope, which you can see here,have been used to scientifically observe cymatic patterns.And the list of scientific applications is growing every day.
时间： 2:30
zh-cn:例如：在海洋学中，通过观察海豚发射的声纳波图案，我们发现实际上海豚语言的词典正在增加。希望在不远的将来，我们能够更加深刻地理解海豚间到底是如何沟通的。同样，我们可以在治疗和教育中使用cymatics。这是一种在校小学生使用的设备，它能够通过跟踪手的位置，控制并移动cymatic图案，以及对手势做出的反应。我们也可以将cymatics看做美丽的自然艺术形式。
en:For example, in oceanography,a lexicon of dolphin language is actually being createdby basically visualizing the sonar beams that the dolphins emit.And hopefully in the future we&#39;ll be able to gain some deeper understandingof how they communicate.We can also use cymatics for healing and education.This is an installation developed with school children,where their hands are tracked. It allows themto control and position cymatic patternsand the reflections that are caused by them.We can also use cymatics as a beautiful natural art form.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:这幅图片是通过演奏Beethoven的第九交响曲片段得到的。很像在翻转大脑里的东西这是通过cymascope演奏Pink Floyd&quot;Machine&quot;的实时cymatics图案。我们也可以将cymatics看做是观察自然的一副眼镜。事实上，我们重新创造了自然的原型。例如，左图是我们自然界中的雪花，右图是我们创造的cymatic雪花。这里是海星和cymatic海星。这里有更多类似的。
en:This image here is created from a snippetof Beethoven&#39;s Ninth Symphony playing through a cymatic device.So it kind of flips things on its head a little bit.This is Pink Floyd&#39;s &quot;Machine&quot;playing in real time through the cymascope.We can also use cymatics as a looking glass into nature.And we can actually recreate the archetypal forms of nature.So, for example, here on the left we can see a snowflake as it would appear in nature.Then on the right we can see a cymatically created snowflake.And here is a starfish and a cymatic starfish.And there is thousands of these.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:它们能够表明什么？其实，还有很多需要我们探索的。早期研究这个领域的人不多。但自从声音可以有图案出现，它影响并形成了很多新事物。如果看的远一些，考虑一下宇宙形成时，宇宙形成时的声音是什么样呢？考虑到此，或许宇宙的cymatics影响了宇宙形成的过程。
en:So what does this all mean?Well, there is still a lot to explorein its early days. And there&#39;s not many people working in this field.But consider for a moment that sound does have form.We&#39;ve seen that it can affect matter and cause form within matter.Then sort of take a leap and think about the universe forming.And think about the immense sound of the universe forming.And if we kind of ponder on that, then perhapscymatics had an influence on the formation of the universe itself.
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:每个人都有很多机会，不管是DIY，还是科学家，还是艺术家，在全球的各个地方。cymatics为每个人提供机会。我想激发在座的每一位，将自己的激情、知识和技能，应用到cymatics类似的领域。我认为通过我们全体可以共建一个全球社区。我们互相鼓励。我们可以发展这个探索不可见的物质。谢谢。（掌声）
en:And here is some eye candy for you, from a range ofDIY scientists and artistsfrom all over the globe.Cymatics is accessible to everybody.I want to urge everybody here toapply your passion, your knowledgeand your skills to areas like cymatics.I think collectively we can build a global community.We can inspire each other.And we can evolve this explorationof the substance of things not seen. Thank you.(Applause)
