时间： 0:15
zh-cn:早上好！很高兴今天来到印度。过去的十一年，我带着《阴道独白》和V-Day运动，走遍了全球，我最近也在认真的反思这段经历的意义我遇到了来自全球各地的妇女和女孩她们都在进行着一场反对妇女暴力的抗争
en:Namaste. Good morning.I&#39;m very happy to be here in India.And I&#39;ve been thinking a lot about what I have learnedover these last particularly 11 yearswith V-Day and &quot;The Vagina Monologues,&quot;traveling the world,essentially meeting with women and girls across the planetto stop violence against women.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:今天我要讲的，就是这种特别的细胞或者说是一群细胞，我们每个人身上都有这个细胞我把它命名为“少女细胞”它存在于女人身上，也存在于男人身上我想大家可以想象一下这一群的细胞对于我们这一个物种的进化以及延续是起着核心意义的
en:What I want to talk about todayis this particular cell,or grouping of cells, that is in each and every one of us.And I want to call it the girl cell.And it&#39;s in men as well as in women.I want you to imagine that this particular grouping of cellsis central to the evolution of our speciesand the continuation of the human race.
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:设想一下，在历史上的某一个时刻那些通过投资想拥有和掌控世界的人他们觉得到对于女孩细胞的压制以及压迫对这类细胞的重新的阐释以及残害会使我们相信这群细胞是没有力量的对这些细胞的压制、消灭以及摧残和消除实际上就是在消灭女孩细胞也恰恰是父权社会之特征
en:And I want you imagine that at some point in historya group of powerful people invested in owning and controlling the worldunderstood that the suppression of this particular cell,the oppression of these cells,the reinterpretation of these cells,the undermining of these cells,getting us to believe in the weakness of these cellsand the crushing, eradicating, destroying,reducing these cells,basically began the process of killing off the girl cell,which was, by the way, patriarchy.
时间： 1:29
zh-cn:我希望大家可以把女孩想象成一个芯片她是我们庞大的集体意识中的一个芯片她对于保持平衡、延续智慧以及对于我们所有人的未来都非常重要此外，我还希望大家可以想象一下的女孩细胞它充满了怜悯同情，激情，它脆弱也开放而强烈它的连结与关系和它的直觉性
en:I want you to imagine that the girl is a chipin the huge macrocosm of collective consciousness.And it is essential to balance, to wisdomand to actually the future of all of us.And then I want you to imagine that this girl cellis compassion,and it&#39;s empathy, and it&#39;s passion itself,and it&#39;s vulnerability,and it&#39;s openness, and it&#39;s intensity,and it&#39;s association, and it&#39;s relationship,and it is intuitive.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:让我们再设想一下，同情是如何启迪了智慧脆弱恰恰可以成为我们最伟大的力量¾情感也有内在的逻辑它会带来激进的、恰当的，同时是拯救性的行动此外，让我们不要忘记我们一直以来被灌输的都恰恰是相反的论调他们说，同情心会迷惑你的思考阻碍你的思考脆弱即劣势情感不可信赖对于万事万物，你都不应当凭个人情感去处理这个恰恰是我最喜欢的一句话
en:And then let&#39;s think how compassion informs wisdom,and that vulnerability is our greatest strength,and that emotions have inherent logic,which lead to radical, appropriate, saving action.And then let&#39;s remember that we&#39;ve been taughtthe exact opposite by the powers that be,that compassion clouds your thinking,that it gets in the way,that vulnerability is weakness,that emotions are not to be trusted,and you&#39;re not supposed to take things personally,which is one of my favorites.
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:我认为，整个世界都是在一种“你不应当成为女孩”的教条下成长起来的我们是怎么把男孩抚养大的？作为男孩以为着什么？它只意味着 不要成为一名女孩。成为男人就是不应当像女孩。成为女人也意味着不应成为女孩。坚强也意味着不是女孩。成为领导也意味着不可成为女孩。我认为，成为女孩是非常有力量的我们还需要训练人们不要成为那样呢（笑声）
en:I think the whole world has essentiallybeen brought up not to be a girl.How do we bring up boys? What does it mean to be a boy?To be a boy really means not to be a girl.To be a man means not to be a girl.To be a woman means not to be a girl.To be strong means not to be a girl.To be a leader means not to be a girl.I actually think thatbeing a girl is so powerfulthat we&#39;ve had to train everyone not to be that.(Laughter)
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:我想说的是，讽刺在于，我们否认女孩，压制女孩，压制情感，这一切把我们带到了这里。而我们现今所处的世界，又恰恰是充满了极端形式的暴力我们见证着史上最严重的贫穷，种族屠杀、大规模的强奸，地球破坏，这些都完全脱离了我们的控制因为我们压制了我们的女孩细胞也压制了我们的女孩特质我们根本就体会不到这正在发生的一切
en:And I&#39;d also like to say that the ironyof course, is that denying girl,suppressing girl, suppressing emotion,refusing feeling has lead thus here.Where we have now come to live in a world wherethe most extreme forms of violence,the most horrific poverty,genocide, mass rapes,the destruction of the Earth, is completely out of control.And because we have suppressed our girl cellsand suppressed our girl-ship,we do not feel what is going on.
时间： 3:30
zh-cn:所以，也没有人要我们对正在发生的这一切负责我今天就希望讲讲这一点首先是民主刚果共和国对我来说，那是一个人生的转折点过去三年，我在那里度过了相当长的一段时间在那以前，我觉得自己领略过人间万象各种的暴力
en:So, we are not being charged withthe adequate response to what is happening.I want to talk a little bit aboutthe Democratic Republic of Congo.For me, it was the turning point of my life.I have spent a lot of time there in the last three years.I feel up to that point I had seen a lot in the world,a lot of violence.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:事实上，过去12年里我生活在世界许多强奸重灾区中但是，民主刚果确实成为了我心灵的转折点我那时候去的是一个叫布卡武的地方我就在当地的潘伊医院我遇到了一个医生，他是我见过的最接近圣人的一位他的名字是登尼斯·穆维格假如你还不知道，在过去的12年 里，刚果民主共和国一直在经历内战那场战争使得六百万人丧命据估计，有三十万到五十万的妇女在战争中被强暴
en:I essentially lived in the rape mines of the world for the last 12 years.But the Democratic Republic of Congoreally was the turning point in my soul.I went and I spent timein a place called Bukavuin a hospital called the Panzi Hospital,with a doctor who was as close to a saint as any person I&#39;ve ever met.His name is Dr. Denis Mukwege.In the Congo, for those of you who don&#39;t know,there has been a war raging for the last 12 years,a war that has killed nearly six million people.It is estimated that somewhere between 300,000 and 500,000 womenhave been raped there.
时间： 4:28
zh-cn:我在潘伊医院第一周的时候我和那里的妇女坐在一起她们会坐起来，一个一个的跟我讲故事她们的故事是如此的让人感到恐怖让人震撼不已，展现了人类生存状况得另一面，说实话， 听了那些故事， 我心都碎了。我慢慢的告诉大家一些故事吧正是因为那种被撕裂的感觉那种聆听八岁的女孩将心底之故事全盘托出的经历——她们的身体都曾遭枪或长剑的凌辱她们的身体上的的确确是存在这样那样的洞她们的排泄物都是从那里排出的
en:When I spent my first weeks at Panzi hospitalI sat with womenwho sat and lined up every day to tell me their stories.Their stories were so horrific,and so mind-blowing and so on the other side of human existence,that to be perfectly honest with you, I was shattered.And I will tell you that what happenedis through that shattering,listening to the stories of eight-year-old girls who had their insides eviscerated,who had guns and bayonets and things shoved inside themso they had holes, literally, inside themwhere their pee and poop came out of them.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:还有聆听八十岁的老妇人告诉我她们曾被绑在铁链上，串成一圈儿，一群男人然后就不定时的进来，轮奸她们这一切，都是在经济扩张的名义下进行的大公司开掘矿藏，这样他们就可以收获渔利我的内心被撕裂了
en:Listening to the story of 80-year-old womenwho were tied to chains and circled,and where groups of men would come and rape them periodically,all in the name of economic exploitationto steal the minerals so the West can have it and profit from them.My mind was so shattered.
时间： 5:17
zh-cn:但对于我来说，那种撕裂反而使得我变得更加坚强那也是从来没有过的我的女孩细胞也由此而打开我的心灵获得巨大突破我的心灵获得巨大突破，都使我变得更勇敢也变得更加聪明这是以前从未有过的
en:But what happened for me is that that shatteringactually emboldened mein a way I have never been emboldened.That shattering, that opening of my girl cell,that kind of massive breakthrough of my heartallowed me to become more courageous, and braver,and actually more cleverthan I had been in the past in my life.
时间： 5:42
zh-cn:另外我想说，有一种必须让人知道的力量，其实， 感情是阻碍帝国大厦成为帝国大厦的帝国大厦，良知会阻挡人们疯狂挖掘地球资源掏空地球，毁灭万物。我记得，我的父亲，他是非常非常暴力的一个人他常打我他 在打我的时候，会这么跟我说，“你为什么不哭？你不敢哭吗？”因为只要我哭，他也许就会感到自己的暴力即便当时他并不想被提醒他正在做什么
en:I want to say that I think the powers that beknow that empire-buildingis actually — that feelings get in the way of empire-building.Feelings get in the way of the mass acquisition of the Earth,and excavating the Earth, and destroying things.I remember, for example, when my father,who was very, very violent, used to beat me.And he would actually say, while he was beating me,&quot;Don&#39;t you cry. Don&#39;t you dare cry.&quot;Because my crying somehow exposed his brutality to him.And even in the moment he didn&#39;t want to be remindedof what he was doing.
时间： 6:13
zh-cn:我只知道，我们的社会系统性地歼灭了女孩细胞不单在男人身上，也在女人身上我认为，在某种程度人们更残忍地对待男人身上的“女孩细胞”（掌声）我看到男孩子是如何被养大的，全世界都是这样家长都会希望自己的孩子变得更壮、更坚强远离脆弱，不要哭泣有一次我去了科索沃看到一个男人倒下忽然间想到，原来子弹就是硬化的泪珠啊当我们不允许男人怀有女孩细胞不允许他们任何的脆弱或同情不允许发自内心的情感。这时候，他们就会变得冷漠、容易伤害别人甚至是走向暴力
en:I know that we have systematically annihilated the girl cell.And I want to say we&#39;ve annihilated it in men as well as in women.And I think in some wayswe&#39;ve been much harsher to menin the annihilation of their girl cell.(Applause)I see how boys have been brought up, and I see this across the planet:to be tough, to be hardened,to distance themselves from their tenderness, to not cry.I actually realized once in Kosovo,when I watched a man break down,that bullets are actually hardened tears,that when we don&#39;t allow men to have their girl selfand have their vulnerability, and have their compassion,and have their hearts, that they become hardened and hurtfuland violent.
时间： 6:56
zh-cn:我们知道，男人往往在不安全时说他们自己是安全的不知道的时候假装自己知道或者假装知道为什么弄到这步天地？即便事情一团乱麻也装得井井有条告诉你们一件很好笑的事。我是坐飞机过来的，我在飞机的过道上走来走去我看到一群男人，确切说至少有十个坐在他们的一方小天地里看言情片每个人都在单打独斗，我想“这就是男人的秘密生活吧”（笑声）
en:And I think we have taught men to be securewhen they are insecure,to pretend they know things when they don&#39;t know things,or why would we be where we are?To pretend they&#39;re not a mess when they are a mess.And I will tell you a very funny story.On my way here on the airplane, I was walking up and down the aisle of the plane.And all these men, literally at least 10 men,were in their little seats watching chick flicks.And they were all alone, and I thought, &quot;This is the secret life of men.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:我去过很多地方很多个国家我的所见所闻让我想到，假如我们按照我们对待自身女孩细胞的方式，去对待现实中的女孩那将会是多么悲惨的一个世界昨天，苏妮塔和克薇塔也在这里讲述了她关于女孩的故事我只是想告诉大家我见过那些遭受了刀伤以及烟头的女孩子人们真的是把她们当成烟灰缸来对待还有人会把女孩子当成垃圾场做母亲的会打自己的女儿做兄弟的、父亲的、叔叔的就更不用说我看到一些女孩子在美国一些貌似可以帮助她们变成理想中的自我的机构中饿死
en:I&#39;ve traveled, as I said,to many, many countries,and I&#39;ve seen, if we do what we do to the girl inside usthen obviously it&#39;s horrific to thinkwhat we do to girls in the world.And we heard from Sunitha yesterday,and Kavita about what we do to girls.But I just want to say thatI&#39;ve met girls with knife wounds and cigarette burns,who are literally being treated like ashtrays.I&#39;ve seen girls be treated like garbage cans.I&#39;ve seen girls who were beaten by their mothersand brothers and fathers and uncles.I&#39;ve seen girls starving themselves to death in Americain institutions to look like some idealized version of themselves.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:我看到对女孩行割礼，对女孩进行控制不让女孩上学或者是，一旦女孩子变得聪明，我们就让她们感到内疚我们让她们变得沉默让她们感到聪明是坏事让她们不要宣张，不要激烈我们还贩卖女孩，甚至是在胎儿的时候就将其杀死我们还把女孩当奴隶，我们强暴女孩我们甚至对此习以为常认为女孩不该成为自己生命之主宰我们于是将女孩当成了没有情感的东西拿到市场上去卖
en:I&#39;ve seen that we cut girls and we control themand we keep them illiterate,or we make them feel bad about being too smart.We silence them. We make them feel guiltyfor being smart. We get them to behave,to tone it down, not to be too intense.We sell them, we kill them as embryos,we enslave them, we rape them.We are so accustomed to robbing girlsof the subject of being the subjects of their livesthat we have now actually objectified themand turned them into commodities.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:环顾整个地球，贩卖女孩的行为日渐猖獗，在有些地方，女孩子的价值甚至不如牛羊此外，假如我们认为这个地球上有八分之一是10到24岁的女孩，可以肯定，她们是人类的未来对发展中国家和发达国家一样的道理女孩身陷各种麻烦，是由于社会系统性地将她们置于不利地位使得她们无法担当本可以担当的角色包括缺乏获得基本医疗的渠道缺乏教育和健康食品参加劳动大军家务劳动的重担大多由女孩和未达劳动年龄的儿童被迫承担这些也使得她们无法摆脱社会的枷锁
en:The selling of girls is rampant across the planet.And in many places they are worth less than goats and cows.But I also want to talk about the fact thatif one in eight people on the planetare girls between the ages of 10 to 24,they are they key, really, in the developing world,as well as in the whole world, to the future of humanity.And if girls are in trouble because they face systematic disadvantagesthat keep them where society wants them to be,including lack of access to healthcare,education, healthy foods,labor force participation.The burden of all the household tasksusually falls on girls and younger siblings,which ensures that they will never overcome these barriers.
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:女孩子的境况这包括我们身体内的女孩以及现实的女孩——在我看来——将直接决定我们这个物种的存亡。我想提出的一个想法是我们 都来跟女孩开展对话。我最近写 了一本书，叫《我是一个情感动物：全球女孩秘密故事》过去五年，我一直在跟女孩对话不管去到那里，一样事情是肯定的即人们谈论到女孩的时候，所用的动词这就是“取悦”人们训练女孩去“取悦”他人我想改变这个动词我希望大家都可以改变这个动词我希望将其改为“教育”或者“鼓动”、“介入”或“对抗”或“反抗”或“创造&quot;假如我们能够教育女孩改变这个动词我们也会让我们体内的女孩变得更加有力让女孩自身的女孩特质变得更加有力量
en:The state of girls, the condition of girls,will, in my belief — and that&#39;s the girl inside usand the girl in the world — determine whetherthe species survives.And what I want to suggest is that,having talked to girls, because I just finished a new book called&quot;I Am an Emotional Creature: The Secret Life of Girls Around the World,&quot;I&#39;ve been talking to girls for five years,and one of the things that I&#39;ve seen is true everywhereis that the verb that&#39;s been enforced on girlis the verb &quot;to please.&quot;Girls are trained to please.I want to change the verb.I want us all to change the verb.I want the verb to be &quot;educate,&quot;or &quot;activate,&quot; or &quot;engage,&quot;or &quot;confront,&quot; or &quot;defy,&quot; or &quot;create.&quot;If we teach girls to change the verbwe will actually enforce the girl inside usand the girl inside them.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:接下来就跟大家分享几个故事都是我在全世界看到的一些女孩 的故事她们都曾鼓舞了其他女孩都曾在种种障碍之下成功的活出了一个完整的女孩我认识一个14岁的荷兰女孩子她要自己坐一艘小船独自环游世界
en:And I have to now share a few storiesof girls I&#39;ve seen across the planetwho have engaged their girl,who have taken on their girl in spite ofall the circumstances around them.I know a 14-year-old girl in the Netherlands,for example, who is demanding that she take a boatand go around the entire world by herself.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:还有，最近一个 少女她要在自己的右脸做56颗星星状的文身
en:There is a teenage girl who just recentlywent out and knew that she needed 56 starstattooed on the right side of her face.
时间：10:29
zh-cn:还有一个叫朱莉亚·希尔的女孩她在一棵树上住了一年因为她想保护野生的橡树
en:There is a girl, Julia Butterfly Hill,who lived for a year in a treebecause she wanted to protect the wild oaks.
时间：10:37
zh-cn:还有，14年前，我在阿富汗认识了一个女孩我把她收养了，将她当成自己的女儿她母亲是一位革命家，被人杀死了而这个女孩，当她还只是17岁的时候在阿富汗， 就穿着一件布卡走到会场里，记录了那里发生的针对妇女的血腥暴力在布卡底下，是她的摄像机。那个视频也传遍了世界向人们揭示了911之后发生在阿富汗的一些事实
en:There is a girl who I met 14 years ago in Afghanistanwho I have adopted as my daughterbecause her mother was killed. Her mother was a revolutionary.And this girl, when she was 17 years old,wore a burqa in Afghanistan,and went into the stadiumsand documented the atrocities that were going on towards women,underneath her burqa, with a video.And that video became the video that went out all over the worldafter 9/11 to show what was going on in Afghanistan.
时间：11:07
zh-cn:还有雷切尔·科莉她十几岁的时候，就曾走到一辆以色列坦克跟前说，“停止占领。”她知道这是在送命，并且遭到了连番枪击最后坦克从她身上开过
en:I want to talk about Rachel Corriewho was in her teens when she stood in front of an Israeli tankto say, &quot;End the occupation.&quot;And she knew she risked death and she was literally gunned downand rolled over by that tank.
时间：11:20
zh-cn:还有，我最近认识的一个女孩那是在布卡维，这个女孩因为被强暴而怀孕她把孩子抱在怀里我问她，是否喜欢这个孩子她看着孩子的眼睛，说“那当然。我怎么可能不喜爱自己的孩子呢？这确实是我的孩子啊，他的身上流淌着爱。&quot;
en:And I want to talk about a girl that I just met recentlyin Bukavu, who was impregnated by her rapist.And she was holding her baby.And I asked her if she loved her baby.And she looked into her baby&#39;s eyes and she said,&quot;Of course I love my baby. How could I not love my baby?It&#39;s my baby and it&#39;s full of love.&quot;
时间：11:38
zh-cn:女孩那种对抗困境并且穷而益坚的精神着实让我感动还有个叫多卡丝的女孩，我是在肯尼亚见到她的那时候多卡丝15岁她学习自卫几个月前，她在路上被三个男人劫持了，他们绑架了她，把她丢到车上她勇敢地自卫，抓住他们的喉咙用拳头打他们的眼睛终于得以逃脱那班人的魔爪，逃离了那辆车
en:The capacity for girls to overcome situationsand to move on levels, to me, is mind-blowing.There is a girl named Dorcas, and I just met her in Kenya.Dorcas is 15 years old,and she was trained in self-defense.A few months ago she was picked up on the streetby three older men.They kidnapped her, they put her in a car.And through her self-defense, she grabbed their Adam&#39;s apples,she punched them in the eyesand she got herself free and out of the car.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:今年8月，在肯尼亚我参观了一个专门为女孩开设的V日安全避难所那是我们7年前设立的跟我一起设立这个避难所的还有一个叫艾格尼丝的妇女艾格尼丝在她还很小的时候就被强迫割礼她的女性生殖器被阉割了。后来她作出了一个决定——世界很多地方的妇女也作出了同样的决定，那就是发生在她身上的不应再次发生在其他妇女和少女身上
en:In Kenya, in August,I went to visit one of the V-Day safe houses for girls,a house we opened seven years agowith an amazing woman named Agnes Pareyio.Agnes was a woman who was cut when she was a little girl,she was female genitally mutilated.And she made a decision as many women do across this planet,that what was done to her would not be enforced and doneto other women and girls.
时间：12:32
zh-cn:多年来，艾格尼丝行走在瑞夫山谷间她告诉少女健康的阴道是怎样的被割掉的阴道又是怎样的她拯救了许多少女的生命。当我见到她的时候我问她，我们可以为她做点什么她说，“假如我有一辆吉普车，我将可以到达更多的地方”于是我们就为她买了一辆吉普车。她一共拯救了4500条生命。
en:So, for years Agnes walked through the Rift valley.She taught girls what a healthy vagina looked like,and what a mutilated vagina looked like.And in that time she saved many girls. And when we met herwe asked her what we could do for her,and she said, &quot;Well, if you got me a Jeep I could get around a lot faster.&quot;So, we got her a Jeep. And then she saved 4,500 girls.
时间：12:52
zh-cn:后来我们又问她，“你还需要点什么？”她说，“我需要一所房子”于是，七年前，艾格尼丝开始建设第一间V日安全中心那是在肯尼亚的那洛克那是逃难的少女的庇护所她们可以逃脱让自己的阴蒂被割的命运还有机会上学艾格尼丝建起了这间房子后她改变了当地的状况并且当上了副市长改变了了法规整个社区也认同她的做法
en:And then we asked her, &quot;Okay, what else do you need?&quot;And she said, &quot;Well, now, I need a house.&quot;So, seven years ago Agnes built the first V-Day safe housein Narok, Kenya, in the Masai land.And it was a house where girls could run away,they could save their clitoris, they wouldn&#39;t be cut,they could go to school.And in the years that Agnes has had the house,she has changed the situation there.She has literally become deputy mayor.She&#39;s changed the rules.The whole community has bought in to what she&#39;s doing.
时间：13:22
zh-cn:我们去到那里的时候，她正在举行一个仪式让那些离家出走的女孩与家人重新团聚其中有一个叫Jaclyn的女孩她14岁以前和家人住在马塞那一年，肯尼亚发生了旱灾牛是她们最为值钱的财产也陆续死去Jaclyn听到她父亲跟别人商量希望把她卖掉换来一头牛她知道那意味着自己要被割意味着自己无法上学也不可能有一个好的未来不得不嫁给那个老人，而她只有14岁
en:When we were there she was doing a ritualwhere she reconciles girls, who have run away, with their families.And there was a young girl named Jaclyn.Jaclyn was 14 years old and she was in her Masai familyand there&#39;s a drought in Kenya.So cows are dying, and cows are the mostvalued possession.And Jaclyn overheard her fathertalking to an old man abouthow he was about to sell her for the cows.And she knew that meant she would be cut.She knew that meant she wouldn&#39;t go to school.She knew that meant she wouldn&#39;t have a future.She knew she would have to marry that old man, and she was 14.
时间：13:56
zh-cn:有一天，她听到有庇护所的消息于是她决定离家出走在马塞的土地上徒步两天夜里要跟鬣狗睡在一起，因为她要找庇护的地方她一方面想到父亲会杀死她另一方面又想到艾格尼丝会欢迎她也希望自己可以安全抵达庇护所最后达到那里的时候，她真的受到了欢迎艾格尼丝把她带到屋里，艾格尼丝爱她艾格尼丝一直支持她后来她去上学，也找到了自我找到了自我认同以及学会关爱自己
en:So, one afternoon, she&#39;d heard about the safe house,Jaclyn left her father&#39;s houseand she walked for two days, two daysthrough Masai land.She slept with the hyenas. She hid at night.She imagined her father killing her on one hand,and Mama Agnes greeting her,with the hope that she would greet her when she got to the house.And when she got to the house she was greeted.Agnes took her in, and Agnes loved her,and Agnes supported her for the year.She went to school and she found her voice,and she found her identity, and she found her heart.
时间：14:27
zh-cn:当她认为时机成熟的时候，她回到家里找父亲跟父亲讲和，那是一年后而我有幸在她们一家恢复和平、顺利团聚的时候在她们家见证那一幕我们走进那间小草屋她的父亲和四个妻子坐在那里她的姐妹们也回来了，她们也跟她一同离家出走的还有她的母亲，她曾因站在她的一边而被打当她的父亲看到她，看到她变为一个成熟的少女时他拥抱着Jaclyn，放声大哭他说，“你真美，你变成一个美丽的姑娘了，我们不会给你行割礼了我现在就承诺也不会对你的妹妹行割礼。“
en:Then, her time was readywhen she had to go back to talk to her fatherabout the reconciliation, after a year.I had the privilege of being in the hutwhen she was reunited with her father and reconciled.In that hut, we walked in,and her father and his four wives were sitting there,and her sisters who had just returned becausethey had all fled when she had fled,and her primary mother, who had been beatenin standing up for her with the elders.When her father saw her and saw who she had become,in her full girl self,he threw his arms around her and broke down crying.He said, &quot;You are beautiful. You have grown into a gorgeous woman.We will not cut you.And I give you my word, here and now,that we will not cut your sisters either.&quot;
时间：15:16
zh-cn:她对父亲说，“那时候，为了四头牛，一只小牛以及一些地毯你愿意把我卖出去但是，我可以向你保证，现在的我接受了教育我会一直照顾你我会回来，给你盖房子直到你离开人世，我会一直陪伴你。”
en:And what she said to him was,&quot;You were willing to sell me for four cows,and a calf and some blankets.But I promise you, now that I will be educatedI will always take care of you,and I will come back and I will build you a house.And I will be in your corner for the rest of your life.&quot;
时间：15:35
zh-cn:我认为，这就是少女的力量也是转变的力量我想以我的书里头的一段话作为今天这个演讲的总结这个演讲是献给在座所有人的内心少女的也希望将此献给苏妮塔献给苏妮塔昨天谈论过的那些少女那些有幸存活下来的，有机会改变自我的少女也希望将此献给这里的每一个人希望大家可以珍视我们的内心少女珍视泪珠珍视情感的力量珍视脆弱的部分并且明白，那是我们的未来之所系
en:For me, that is the power of girls.And that is the power of transformation.I want to close todaywith a new piece from my book.And I want to do it tonightfor the girl in everybody here.And I want to do it for Sunitha.And I want to do it for the girls that Sunitha talked about yesterday,the girls who survive, the girls who can become somebody else.But I really want to do it for each and every person here,to value the girl in us,to value the part that cries,to value the part that&#39;s emotional,to value the part that&#39;s vulnerable,to understand that&#39;s where the future lies.
时间：16:15
zh-cn:这段话标题是“我是一个情感动物”它源于我在洛杉矶遇到的一个女孩我那时候到处问女孩子，她们是否喜欢做女孩所有的女孩都说，“不，我讨厌这个，我不能接受这个，太糟糕了。我的哥哥总是得到所有的东西。“而这个女孩则站起来说：“我喜欢做女孩，因为我是一个情感动物！”（笑声）这是献给她的：
en:This is called &quot;I&#39;m An Emotional Creature.&quot;And it happened because I met a girl in Watts, L.A.I was asking girls if they like being a girl,and all the girls were like, &quot;No, I hate it. I can&#39;t stand it.It&#39;s all bad. My brothers get everything.&quot;And this girl just sat up and went, &quot;I love being a girl.I&#39;m an emotional creature!&quot;(Laughter)This is for her:
时间：16:36
zh-cn:我热爱当女孩。我可以体会你的情感体会你刚才体会到的情感我是一个情感动物认识这个世界，我靠的不是知识理论或抽象的概念而是像脉冲那样在我的器官里，在我的腿里，我的耳朵里流动哦，我懂得你的女朋友的烂心情虽然她表面还是对你百依百顺我能感知暴雨来临我还能感知那看不见的空气的震动我可以告诉你，她不会给你 打电话了。因为我跟她是在同一波段上 的。
en:I love being a girl.I can feel what you&#39;re feelingas you&#39;re feeling inside the feeling before.I am an emotional creature.Things do not come to me as intellectual theoriesor hard-pressed ideas.They pulse through my organs and legs and burn up my ears.Oh, I know when your girlfriend&#39;s really pissed off,even though she appears to give you what you want.I know when a storm is coming.I can feel the invisible stirrings in the air.I can tell you he won&#39;t call back. It&#39;s a vibe I share.
时间：17:08
zh-cn:我是一个情感动物。我不会只是看得到事情的表面。任何事情，对我而言，都是紧张的不管是在街上走，是妈妈从睡梦里将我叫醒是我面对失败，是我听到坏消息的那种震动
en:I am an emotional creature.I love that I do not take things lightly.Everything is intense to me,the way I walk in the street, the way my momma wakes me up,the way it&#39;s unbearable when I lose, the way I hear bad news.
时间：17:22
zh-cn:我是一个情感动物我跟所有人所有事都连接在一起。我天生就是这样的。不要是说这不好那不好那是小孩子的做法也不要说，那是因为我是女孩这些反而让我高兴让我快乐，让我感到实在，让我感到强大
en:I am an emotional creature.I am connected to everything and everyone. I was born like that.Don&#39;t you say all negativethat it&#39;s only only a teenage thing,or it&#39;s only because I&#39;m a girl.These feelings make me better.They make me present. They make me ready. They make me strong.
时间：17:38
zh-cn:我是一个情感动物那是一种特别的认知方式有点像老妇人的健忘她还活在我体内，我因此而高兴我知道椰子什么时候会掉到地上我知道我们对地球伤害太多我知道我的父亲不会再世我知道没有人准备好接受战火还有唇膏不仅仅是为了展示我知道男孩也时常惴惴不安所谓的恐怖主义分子是后天的，非天生的我知道，一个亲吻可以消解我的一切判断力（笑声）知道吗？有时候确实应该这样这不是极端。这是女孩会做的事情假如我们内心的那道大门得以打开，这也是我们每个人都能做到的
en:I am an emotional creature.There is a particular way of knowing.It&#39;s like the older women somehow forgot.I rejoice that it&#39;s still in my body.Oh, I know when the coconut&#39;s about to fall.I know we have pushed the Earth too far.I know my father isn&#39;t coming back,and that no one&#39;s prepared for the fire.I know that lipstick means more than show,and boys are super insecure,and so-called terrorists are made, not born.I know that one kisscould take away all my decision-making ability.(Laughter)And you know what? Sometimes it should.This is not extreme. It&#39;s a girl thing,what we would all be if the big door inside us flew open.
时间：18:25
zh-cn:不要告诉我停止哭泣，冷静不要走极端，要理性我是一个情感动物这正是地球的运作方式啊，这也是风的运行规律啊你不可能指挥太平洋怎样做我是一个情感动物为何让我停下，让我掉头？我是你残留的记忆我可以把你带回过去没有被冲淡，也没有一点滴漏我爱，听我讲，我爱我可以体会你心底的情感即使那样会停止我的生命即使那样会打碎我的心即使那样会把我偏离正轨但这会让我变得有责任感
en:Don&#39;t tell me not to cry, to calm it down,not to be so extreme, to be reasonable.I am an emotional creature.It&#39;s how the earth got made, how the wind continues to pollinate.You don&#39;t tell the Atlantic Ocean to behave.I am an emotional creature.Why would you want to shut me down or turn me off?I am your remaining memory.I can take you back.Nothing&#39;s been diluted.Nothing&#39;s leaked out.I love, hear me, I lovethat I can feel the feelings inside you,even if they stop my life,even if they break my heart,even if they take me off track,they make me responsible.
时间：19:11
zh-cn:我是有情感的，我是一个有情感的、无条件全情投入的动物听我讲，我爱我爱，爱，爱当一个女孩听到了吗？我爱- 爱-爱-爱当一个女孩！谢谢大家！（掌声）
en:I am an emotional, I am an emotional,incondotional, devotional creature.And I love, hear me,I love, love, love being a girl.Can you say it with me?I love, I love, love, lovebeing a girl!Thank you very much.(Applause)
