时间： 0:15
zh-cn:大家早上好。我想他们请我这个坏脾气的东欧人来这里的目的就是散播些悲观主义。所以还望大家见谅。我来自前苏联治理下的白俄罗斯。众所周知，那里算不上是自由民主的乐土。也正因此，我一直都对科技是如何重塑并开放我们这样的专治社会非常感兴趣。
en:Good morning. I think, as a grumpy Eastern European,I was brought in to play the pessimist this morning. So bear with me.Well, I come from the former Soviet Republic of Belarus,which, as some of you may know,is not exactly an oasis of liberal democracy.So that&#39;s why I&#39;ve always been fascinatedwith how technology could actually reshapeand open up authoritarian societies like ours.
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:我那时刚从大学毕业，怀揣着满腔的理想，决定加入一个非政府机构（NGO）。他们当时正是利用新媒体在前苏联内大范围推广民主和媒体改革。但令我吃惊的是，我发现想要瓦解独裁统治并没有想像中的那么容易。事实上，一些独裁统治不但没有被这些挑战所击垮，反而变得更具压迫性。
en:So, I&#39;m graduating collegeand, feeling very idealistic,I decided to join the NGOwhich actually was using new mediato promote democracy and media reformin much of the former Soviet Union.However, to my surprise,I discovered that dictatorshipsdo not crumble so easily.In fact, some of them actuallysurvived the Internet challenge,and some got even more repressive.
时间： 1:10
zh-cn:也就是在那时，我才从我的理想主义中苏醒，并且决定辞去我在那个NGO的工作，转而去研究互联网是怎样阻碍民主进程的。我不得不告诉你，我这个论点向来都不太受欢迎。对于你们在座的一些人来说，可能直到现在也很难接受我这个论点。政治领袖们，尤其是美国的那些，对我这个论点都没什么好感。他们始终觉得，导弹办不到的事情新媒体可以办得到──当其他办法都失效的时候，新媒体仍旧可以在最棘手的地区内推广民主。到2009年的时候，这股信仰总算是席卷了英国，所以我应该把戈登-布朗也加入到这一串政治领袖中来。
en:So this is when I ran out of my idealism anddecided to quit my NGO joband actually study how the Internet could impede democratization.Now, I must tell you that this was nevera very popular argument,and it&#39;s probably not very popular yetwith some of you sitting in this audience.It was never popular with many political leaders,especially those in the United Stateswho somehow thought that new mediawould be able to do what missiles couldn&#39;t.That is, promote democracy in difficult placeswhere everything else has already been tried and failed.And I think by 2009,this news has finally reached Britain,so I should probably add Gordon Brown to this list as well.
时间： 1:55
zh-cn:但事实上，这项讨论中的本质议题是关于后勤管理的。对吗？如果你仔细想想，你就会发现，这一切归根结底都是跟经济有关。那些“网托邦”的人认为，博客和社会网络就如同80年代的传真机和复印机一样，已经从本质上彻底改变了反抗运动的经济运作。人民反抗是难以避免的。换言之，现今为止的讨论都假设说如果人们有了足够的连通性，有了足够的器具，那么民主政治将是水到渠成、自然而然。
en:However, there is an underlying argument about logistics,which has driven so much of this debate. Right?So if you look at it close enough,you&#39;ll actually see that much of thisis about economics.The cybertopians say, much like fax machinesand Xerox machines did in the &#39;80s,blogs and social networkshave radically transformed the economics of protest,so people would inevitably rebel.To put it very simply,the assumption so far has beenthat if you give people enough connectivity,if you give them enough devices,democracy will inevitably follow.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:说真的，我从来都不相信这种说法。一部分原因是因为我之前还从来没有看过三位美国总统在同一件事情上达成共识。（笑声）但除此之外，这种说法是建立在一种被我叫做“iPod自由主义”的逻辑之上的。也就是说我们假定每一个拥有并且喜爱iPod的伊朗人和中国人也会自然而然地热衷于自由民主。我觉得这种想法是错误的。
en:And to tell you the truth,I never really bought into this argument,in part because I never saw three American presidentsagree on anything else in the past.(Laughter)But, you know, even beyond that,if you think about the logic underlying it,is something I call iPod liberalism,where we assume that every single Iranian or Chinesewho happens to have and love his iPodwill also love liberal democracy.And again, I think this is kind of false.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:但我觉得这种逻辑背后所隐藏的更巨大的问题是──坚信我们应该投掷iPod而不是炸弹──听起来可以成为托马斯-弗里德曼 (Thomas Friedman)(《世界是平的》的作者）新书的标题。（笑声）这从来都不是什么好迹象，对吧？所以这个逻辑所隐藏的更重要的问题是它把科技的预定作用和实际作用给搞混了。如果你认为互联网上的新媒体可以帮助我们避免种族屠杀的话，你只要看看卢旺达就知道你有多么得错误了。90年代的时候，正是卢旺达的两家电台为当时的种族仇恨煽风点火、添油加醋，最终酿成惨剧。
en:But I think a much bigger problem with thisis that this logic —that we should be dropping iPods not bombs —I mean, it would make a fascinating titlefor Thomas Friedman&#39;s new book.(Laughter)But this is rarely a good sign. Right?So, the bigger problem with this logicis that it confuses the intendedversus the actual uses of technology.For those of you who think thatnew media of the Internetcould somehow help us avert genocide,should look no further than Rwanda,where in the &#39;90s it was actually two radio stationswhich were responsible for fueling much of the ethnic hatred in the first place.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:再回到互联网这个话题上来，我们所目睹的实际上是一些政府如何利用网络空间来达到宣传的目的。而他们所构建的正是“贴金网”。一边利用互联网，一边往自己脸上贴金。从俄罗斯到中国再到伊朗，这些政府事实上都在雇用、培训、聘请博客们四处散发具有崇高理念的留言，撰写一系列极富思想的博客日记，来评论敏感的政治话题。
en:But even beyond that, coming back to the Internet,what you can actually seeis that certain governmentshave mastered the use of cyberspacefor propaganda purposes. Right?And they are building what I call the Spinternet.The combination of spin, on the one hand,and the Internet on the other.So governments from Russia to China to Iranare actually hiring, training and paying bloggersin order to leave ideological commentsand create a lot of ideological blog poststo comment on sensitive political issues. Right?
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:你也许会问了，他们这么做的目的究竟是何在呢？他们干嘛要管网络空间的事情？我的理论是在很多上述提到的地方，审查机制已经不如你想像中的那么有效了。一旦有人写了篇具有抨击性质的博客文章，就算你把它立马封杀，它到头来还是会传到其他成百上千的博客中。所以人们博得越多，就越激励人们躲避审查制度，赢得这个“猫抓耗子”的游戏。所以唯一控制这种言论的方式就是把它转过来，变成对你自己有利的言论，并且声称那些抨击政府的人是中央情报局卧底之类的角色。
en:So you may wonder, why on Earth are they doing it?Why are they engaging with cyberspace?Well my theory is thatit&#39;s happening because censorship actuallyis less effective than you think it is in many of those places.The moment you put something critical in a blog,even if you manage to ban it immediately,it will still spread around thousands and thousands of other blogs.So the more you block it,the more it emboldens people to actually avoid the censorshipand thus win in this cat-and-mouse game.So the only way to control this messageis actually to try to spin itand accuse anyone who has written something criticalof being, for example, a CIA agent.
时间： 5:11
zh-cn:而这在现实生活中的确是时常发生的。就拿中国举个例子吧。在2009年2月份的时候，诞生了一个相当热门的话题，叫做“躲猫猫”。如果你们不了解详情的话，我就给你们简单概括一下：当时一个24岁的中国青年在看守所里离奇身亡。警方说事发的原因是因为他当时正在和其他的看守所的狱友们玩“躲猫猫”，结果不幸撞到了墙，撞坏了脑袋。中国的博客们当然是不会轻易相信这个解释，
en:And, again, this is happening quite often.Just to give you an example of how it works in China, for example.There was a big case in February 2009called &quot;Elude the Cat.&quot;And for those of you who didn&#39;t know, I&#39;ll just give a little summary.So what happened is that a 24-year-old man,a Chinese man, died in prison custody.And police said that it happenedbecause he was playing hide and seek,which is &quot;elude the cat&quot; in Chinese slang,with other inmates and hit his headagainst the wall,which was not an explanation which sat well with many Chinese bloggers.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:于是他们立即发布了大量具有抨击意味的帖子。事实上在知名中文网站腾讯网上关于这个话题的留言几个小时内就达到了35000条。不过随后政府做了个非常明智的举动。与其大量清除这些留言，他们反而是向这些博客们伸出了友善之手。他们基本上是说：“好吧，事到如今，我们恳请你们担任我们的网络稽查员。“500个人提出了申请，4个人最终被采纳并走访了那个看守所，巡查了一番，又博客了一番。几天之内，整起事件变淡出了人们的讨论范围。如果政府只是盲目地屏蔽封锁的话，这是绝不可能发生的。人们会讨论这个问题讨论好几个星期。
en:So they immediately began posting a lot of critical comments.In fact, QQ.com, which is a popular Chinese website,had 35,000 commentson this issue within hours.But then authorities did something very smart.Instead of trying to purge these comments,they instead went and reached out to the bloggers.And they basically said, &quot;Look guys. We&#39;d like you to become netizen investigators.&quot;So 500 people applied,and four were selected to actually go and tour the facility in question,and thus inspect it and then blog about it.Within days the entire incident was forgotten,which would have never happened if they simply tried to block the content.People would keep talking about it for weeks.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:这其实和另外一个关于独裁政权和网络空间的理论很有关联。政治学者们称其为独裁约定——政府实际上对他们的批判者伸出橄榄枝，与他们在网络上进行探讨。我们通常会认为这么做只会损害这些独裁者，但相反的，很多时候这么做反而进一步加强了他们。你也许想知道为什么。我在这里就给大家列出一些简短的原因来解释独裁约定是如何帮助独裁者的。
en:And this actually fits with another interesting theoryabout what&#39;s happening in authoritarian statesand in their cyberspace.This is what political scientists call authoritarian deliberation,and it happens when governments are actually reaching out to their criticsand letting them engage with each other online.We tend to thinkthat somehow this is going to harm these dictatorships,but in many cases it only strengthens them.And you may wonder why.I&#39;ll just give you a very short list of reasonswhy authoritarian deliberationmay actually help the dictators.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:第一点很简单：这些独裁者大部分都是在完全的信息真空的环境下运作。他们并没有他们所需要的所有资料来正确地判断识别面对他们政权的潜在威胁。所以鼓励民众上网再博客和维基上面分享信息和资料其实是好事。不然的话，低层官员们将继续隐瞒国家内真正发生的事情。所以从这个角度来看，利用博客和维基来制造信息是对独裁者们很有利的事情。
en:And first it&#39;s quite simple.Most of them operate in a complete information vacuum.They don&#39;t really have the data they needin order to identify emerging threats facing the regime.So encouraging people to actually go onlineand share information and dataon blogs and wikis is greatbecause otherwise, low level apparatchiks and bureaucratswill continue concealing what&#39;s actually happening in the country, right?So from this perspective, having blogs and wikisproduce knowledge has been great.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:第二点，让公众参与到重要决策中来永远都是好的。因为这样一来，一旦政策失败，你无需一个人承担职责。因为他们可以说，“看吧，我们问过你们，征求过你们，这是你们投票选举的结果。你们把它放到你博客的首页上，不错。那就拿你当替罪羊吧。“
en:Secondly, involving public in any decision makingis also greatbecause it helps you to share the blamefor the policies which eventually fail.Because they say, &quot;Well look, we asked you,we consulted you, you voted on it.You put it on the front page of your blog.Well, great. You are the one who is to blame.&quot;
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:最后一点，任何独裁约定背后的目的都是为了在国内国外增强这个政权的合法性。所以邀请人们参与公众论坛，加入决策讨论中来，其实是件好事。因为这样一来你就可以用这个做为例子，并且声称：“看吧，我们有民主。我们有论坛。”
en:And finally, the purpose ofany authoritarian deliberation effortsis usually to increase the legitimacy of the regimes, both at home and abroad.So inviting people to all sorts of public forums,having them participate in decision making,it&#39;s actually great.Because what happens is that thenyou can actually point to this initiative and say,&quot;Well, we are having a democracy. We are having a forum.&quot;
时间： 8:25
zh-cn:据个例子来说，俄罗斯的某个区域正鼓励民众们参与到该区域2020年前的政策规划中来。人们可以上网，提供想法，畅谈他们希望这个区域2020年的时候变成什么样子。但任何去过俄罗斯的人都知道，俄罗斯连几个月的规划都办理不好。所以邀请人们加入到2020年的规划中来是不会在真正意义上改变什么的。因为这些独裁者们才是最终决定议事进程的人。
en:Just to give you an example,one of the Russian regions, for example,now involves its citizensin planning its strategy up until year 2020.Right? So they can go onlineand contribute ideas on what that region would look like by the year 2020.I mean, anyone who has been to Russia would knowthat there was no planning in Russia for the next month.So having people involved in planning for 2020is not necessarily going to change anything,because the dictators are still the ones who control the agenda.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:在给你们一个伊朗的例子。我们都听说过最近那里发生的“推特革命”(Twitter Revolution)。但如果你仔细看看，你就会发现很多网络、博客、推特（Twitter）、Facebook实际上都是正常运行。可能访问的速度略有减缓，但积极分子仍旧可以访问它们，甚至有人认为不封闭这些网站事实上是对独裁政府有利的。原因就在于这些网站们给了政府开源性的情报信息。
en:Just to give you an example from Iran,we all heard about the Twitter revolutionthat happened there,but if you look close enough, you&#39;ll actually seethat many of the networks and blogsand Twitter and Facebook were actually operational.They may have become slower,but the activists could still access itand actually argue that having access to themis actually great for many authoritarian states.And it&#39;s great simply becausethey can gather open source intelligence.
时间： 9:24
zh-cn:在过去，要想搞清楚伊朗的积极分子们是如何彼此关联的往往需要花上几个星期，甚至是几个月。现在你这要登陆他们的Facebook网页看看谁和谁是好友就可以了。过去苏联安全局(KGB)以及其他组织要利用酷刑折磨才能得到这些资料。现在这些资料在网上随手可得。（笑声）
en:In the past it would take you weeks, if not months,to identify how Iranian activists connect to each other.Now you actually know how they connect to each otherby looking at their Facebook page.I mean KGB, and not just KGB,used to torture in order to actually get this data.Now it&#39;s all available online.(Laughter)
时间： 9:43
zh-cn:但我觉得那些“网托邦”人士所犯的最大的概念性错误是关于当今的数码一代，那些在网络上成长起来的人们。我们常常听说网络积极主义，听说人们是如何因为互联网而变得更加积极的。但却很少听说比如“网络享乐主义”之类的说法，听说人们是如何因为互联网而变得被动消极的。为什么呢？因为这些“网托邦“人士一味地认为互联网最终将成为社会变化的催化剂，将鼓舞青年群众走向街头，但事实上它却成为了老百姓的新鸦片，鼓舞人们躲在自己房间里，下载色情片。但很多人却对这种想法不屑一顾。
en:But I think the biggest conceptual pitfallthat cybertopians madeis when it comes to digital natives, people who have grown up online.We often hear about cyber activism,how people are getting more active because of the Internet.Rarely hear about cyber hedonism, for example,how people are becoming passive.Why? Because they somehow assume that the Internetis going to be the catalyst of changethat will push young people into the streets,while in fact it may actually be the new opium for the masseswhich will keep the same people in their rooms downloading pornography.That&#39;s not an option being considered too strongly.
时间：10:16
zh-cn:每个德黑兰街头造反的数码变节者的背后都隐藏着两个只在魔兽世界里反抗的数码俘虏。这就是现实。不过这并没有什么不好的，因为互联网的确是给了很多年轻人力量。它对于他们所产生的社会作用是完全不同的。
en:So for every digital renegade that is revolting in the streets of Tehran,there may as well be two digital captiveswho are actually rebelling only in the World of Warcraft.And this is realistic. And there is nothing wrong about itbecause the Internet has greatly empowered many of these young peopleand it plays a completely different social role for them.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:如果你看看一些关于年轻人是如何从互联网中受益的问卷调查，你就会发现在中国性生活因为互联网而得以扩展的青少年的数量比美国多三倍。所以互联网的确扮演着社会角色，只不过它不一定会带来任何实质性的政治讨论。
en:If you look at some of the surveyson how the young people actually benefit from the Internet,you&#39;ll see that the number of teenagers in China, for example,for whom the Internet actually broadens their sex life,is three times more than in the United States.So it does play a social role,however it may not necessarily lead to political engagement.
时间：10:51
zh-cn:所以我情愿把它看作是一种网络上的需要层次论——完全是照抄亚伯拉罕-马斯洛(Abraham Maslow)(需要层次论的创立者)。但重要的一点是当你把网络带给那些俄罗斯的边远乡村时，真正能启发人们上网的并不会是“人权观察“的报告，而是色情片，《欲望城市》，或者是根猫有关的搞笑视频。你们需要认识到这一点。
en:So the way I tend to think of itis like a hierarchy of cyber-needs in space,a total rip-off from Abraham Maslow.But the point here is thatwhen we get the remote Russian village online,what will get people to the Internetis not going to be the reports from Human Rights Watch.It&#39;s going to be pornography, &quot;Sex and the City,&quot;or maybe watching funny videos of cats.So this is something you have to recognize.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:对此，我们应该做些什么呢？我们需要摒弃人均iPod值的概念，而是开始思考各种方法将力量带给知识分子、不同意见者、非政府机构、以及所有文明社会的成员们。因为随着“贴金网”和独裁约定的日渐壮大，这些人的声音很有可能会被淹没其中。所以我们要摒弃乌托邦的假想，开始脚踏实地地做一些实事。（谢谢）（掌声）
en:So what should we do about it?Well I say we have to stop thinkingabout the number of iPods per capitaand start thinking about ways in whichwe can empower intellectuals,dissidents, NGOs and then the members of civil society.Because even what has been happening up &#39;til nowwith the Spinternet and authoritarian deliberation,there is a great chance that those voices will not be heard.So I think we should shatter some of our utopian assumptionsand actually start doing something about it.Thank you.(Applause)
