时间： 0:15
zh-cn:祝你平安！（阿拉伯常见的问候语）多哈欢迎你。我负责确保卡塔尔的食品保障。在接下来的两年时间里，我的工作是设计一个完整的总体规划，然后在接下来的 10 年里实施这个规划——当然，是和很多人共同实施。首先，我想讲一个我的故事，这个故事是关于在座各位脚下的这个国家（卡塔尔）。相信诸位今天都已进三餐，或许会在活动后再吃点夜宵。
en:Salaam alaikum.Welcome to Doha.I am in charge of making this country&#39;s food secure.That is my job for the next two years,to design an entire master plan,and then for the next 10 years to implement it —of course, with so many other people.But first, I need to talk to you about a story, which is my story,about the story of this country that you&#39;re all here in today.And of course, most of you have had three meals today,and probably will continue to have after this event.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:那好，上个世纪四十年代的卡塔尔是什么样的呢？那时这里有大约一万一千名居民。这里没饮用水、没能源、没石油、没有汽车，什么也没有。大多数住在这里的人要么住在沿海村庄，靠打渔为生，要么过着游牧人的生活，四处飘游寻找水源。根本不像你今天所见到的这般辉煌。那时也没有像多哈、迪拜、阿布扎比、科威特或利雅得这样的城市。不是人们不能发展城市，而是匮乏的资源不允许城市的发展。那时人们的寿命也短。大多数人在 50 岁左右就过世了。
en:So going in, what was Qatar in the 1940s?We were about 11,000 people living here.There was no water. There was no energy, no oil, no cars, none of that.Most of the people who lived hereeither lived in coastal villages, fishing,or were nomads who roamed around with the environment trying to find water.None of the glamour that you see today existed.No cities like you see today in Doha or Dubai or Abu Dhabi or Kuwait or Riyadh.It wasn&#39;t that they couldn&#39;t develop cities.Resources weren&#39;t there to develop them.And you can see that life expectancy was also short.Most people died around the age of 50.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:让我们翻开第二章：石油时代。1939 年，人们发现了石油。只可惜，直到二战结束后石油才得到大规模的商业开采。石油到底发挥了什么作用？正如你亲眼所见，它改变了这个国家的面貌。它也使得那些一度在沙漠中游荡、四处寻找水和食物、设法养活他们牲畜的游牧人走上了城市化的发展道路。
en:So let&#39;s move to chapter two: the oil era.1939, that&#39;s when they discovered oil.But unfortunately, it wasn&#39;t really fully exploited commerciallyuntil after the Second World War.What did it do?It changed the face of this country, as you can see today and witness.It also made all those people who roamed around the desert —looking for water, looking for food,trying to take care of their livestock — urbanize.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:也许你会感到奇怪，我的家人有不同的口音。比如我父母的口音截然不同，尽管我们都是这个约有 30 万人口的国家的子民。这个国家有大概五六种不同的口音——这些口音我都会讲。有人问：“这是怎么回事？”因为我们过去过着散居的生活。因为没有资源，我们没办法集中地生活。而有了石油资源以后，我们开始发展先进科技将人们集中起来，因为我们需要集中。人们开始相互认识。于是我们发现，原来大家的口音都不一样。
en:You might find this strange,but in my family we have different accents.My mother has an accent that is so different to my father,and we&#39;re all a population of about 300,000 people in the same country.There are about five or six accents in this country as I speak.Someone says, &quot;How so? How could this happen?&quot;Because we lived scattered.We couldn&#39;t live in a concentrated way simply because there was no resources.And when the resources came, be it oil,we started building these fancy technologiesand bringing people together because we needed the concentration.People started to get to know each other.And we realized that there are some differences in accents.
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:以上就是第二章：石油时代。再来看看今天。这可能是今天大多数人所知道的多哈风貌。如今的人口有多少呢？大约一百七十万。时间仅仅过去不到 60 年。在过去的 5 年里，我们的经济平均增长了约15%。人均寿命也提高到 78 岁。人均用水量达到四百三十升，列居世界用水之最。从水资源匮乏到世界顶级用水国。我不知道是不是“物极必反”的原因在作怪。
en:So that is the chapter two: the oil era.Let&#39;s look at today.This is probably the skyline that most of you know about Doha.So what&#39;s the population today?It&#39;s 1.7 million people.That is in less than 60 years.The average growth of our economy is about 15 percent for the past five years.Lifespan has increased to 78.Water consumption has increased to 430 liters.And this is amongst the highest worldwide.From having no water whatsoeverto consuming water to the highest degree, higher than any other nation.I don&#39;t know if this was a reaction to lack of water.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:这个故事里有意思的是：我们的经济还在继续增长——在没有淡水的情况下，过去的 5 年里，每年经济增长15%。这是史无前例的，或者说我们创造了历史。城市由于缺水而荡然无存。这是这一地域从前的历史。与其说我们的前辈曾在建造城市，倒不如说他们曾在编织梦想。他们不仅梦想着建造城市， 也梦想着成为科学家和医生。建造美丽的家园，找来设计师设计自己的房子。这些人坚信这片贫瘠的土地是生机勃勃的。当然，没有科技的支撑，这也只能是梦想。巴西每年有 1782 毫米的降雨量卡塔尔却仅有 74 毫米，但我们的城市发展速度飞快。
en:But what is interesting about the story that I&#39;ve just said?The interesting part is that we continue to grow15 percent every year for the past five years without water.Now that is historic. It&#39;s never happened before in history.Cities were totally wiped out because of the lack of water.This is history being made in this region.Not only cities that we&#39;re building,but cities with dreams and people who are wishing to be scientists, doctors.Build a nice home, bring the architect, design my house.These people are adamant that this is a livable space when it wasn&#39;t.But of course, with the use of technology.So Brazil has 1,782 millimeters per year of precipitation of rain.Qatar has 74, and we have that growth rate.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:问题是，我们如何在极度缺水的情况下维持高速发展。答案很简单，我们有这些庞大的海水淡化装置。能源是关键因素，它改变了一切。它就是我们从地下抽出并大量使用的石油，在座各位能到多哈，可能就是靠它的功劳。因此，石油就像我们的无形的湖泊。它就像我们的河流。多亏了它，大家才能有幸用上淡水。这是这一地区有史以来最伟大的科技：海水淡化技术。
en:The question is how.How could we survive that?We have no water whatsoever.Simply because of this gigantic, mammoth machine called desalination.Energy is the key factor here. It changed everything.It is that thing that we pump out of the ground, we burn tons of,probably most of you used it coming to Doha.So that is our lake, if you can see it.That is our river.That is how you all happen to use and enjoy water.This is the best technology that this region could ever have: desalination.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:那么有没有风险呢？您有担心过吗？我想说，当我们放眼全球，您就会意识到，我的担心并不多余。人口日益增长，对石油的需求也随之增加。就在几个月前，全球人口已经突破了 70 亿。随之而来的是对食物需求的增长。有预言说到 2050 年全球人口将达到 90 亿。
en:So what are the risks?Do you worry much?I would say, perhaps if you look at the global facts,you will realize, of course I have to worry.There is growing demand, growing population.We&#39;ve turned seven billion only a few months ago.And so that number also demands food.And there&#39;s predictions that we&#39;ll be nine billion by 2050.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:像我们这样缺水的国家不得不担心全球的事态发展。饮食习惯也在改变。随着社会经济水平上升到新的高度，人们的饮食习惯也在改变。人们开始食用更多的肉，等等等等。另一方面，粮食产量正在下降因为气候变化和其它因素。当危机即将发生的时候，总得有人能够真正察觉。
en:So a country that has no waterhas to worry about what happens beyond its borders.There&#39;s also changing diets.By elevating to a higher socio-economic level,they also change their diet.They start eating more meat and so on and so forth.On the other hand, there is declining yieldsbecause of climate change and because of other factors.And so someone has to really realize when the crisis is going to happen.
时间： 6:03
zh-cn:卡塔尔不为人知的情况是，我们仅有两天的淡水储备。我们90%的粮食是进口的，我们仅有不到国土面积1%的耕地。我们人数有限的农民都被迫抛弃他们的农作由于开放的市场政策和强大的竞争等等原因。因此我们也面临风险。这些风险直接影响着这个国家的可持续性和延续性。
en:This is the situation in Qatar, for those who don&#39;t know.We only have two days of water reserve.We import 90 percent of our food,and we only cultivate less than one percent of our land.The limited number of farmers that we havehave been pushed out of their farming practicesas a result of open market policy and bringing the big competitions, etc., etc.So we also face risks.These risks directly affect the sustainability of this nation and its continuity.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:但是有没有解决办法呢？有没有可持续性的办法？其实是有的。这张幻灯片总结了数千页技术文档都是我们过去两年的工作成果。让我们从水说起。大家很清楚——正如我刚才所说——我们需要这种能源。那么我们到底需要哪种能源呢？一种耗竭性能源？化石燃料？或许我们可以用其它能源？我们有没有相对优势去用另一种能源?我猜大多数人都会想到：我们每年有 300 天的充足日照。因而，我们将使用这种可再生能源来生产我们需要的淡水。而且我们可能会配备1800兆瓦的太阳能系统去生产 350 万立方米的淡水。这可是大量的淡水呀。
en:The question is, is there a solution?Is there a sustainable solution?Indeed there is.This slide sums up thousands of pages of technical documentsthat we&#39;ve been working on over the past two years.Let&#39;s start with the water.So we know very well — I showed you earlier — that we need this energy.So if we&#39;re going to need energy, what sort of energy?A depletable energy? Fossil fuel?Or should we use something else?Do we have the comparative advantage to use another sort of energy?I guess most of you by now realize that we do: 300 days of sun.And so we will use that renewable energy to produce the water that we need.And we will probably put 1,800 megawatts of solar systemsto produce 3.5 million cubic meters of water.And that is a lot of water.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:这些水会被农民所用，农民会有充足的水灌溉作物，进而为社会提供食物。但为了维持图示中的水平线——因为这些是我们要交付的项目和系统——我们也需要发展那条垂直线：系统支持、高等教育、研究与发展、工业、科技，以研制出这些应用技术，最终投放市场。但是凝结和推进这些做法的是：立法、政策和制度。没有这些，一切都是空谈。
en:That water will go then to the farmers,and the farmers will be able to water their plants,and they will be able then to supply society with food.But in order to sustain the horizontal line —because these are the projects, these are the systems that we will deliver —we need to also develop the vertical line:system sustenance, high-level education, research and development,industries, technologies, to produce these technologies for application, and finally markets.But what gels all of it, what enables it, is legislation, policies, regulations.Without it we can&#39;t do anything.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:这就是我们规划要做的事。在接下来的两年中，我们有希望完成这一规划并落实这一规划。我们的目标是建立一个千年之城，就像我们周围许多的千年之城：伊斯坦布尔、罗马、伦敦、巴黎、大马士革、开罗。我们虽仅有 60 年的历史，但我们渴望永生一城之中，和平相处。
en:So that&#39;s what we are planning to do.Within two years we should hopefully be done with this planand taking it to implementation.Our objective is to be a millennium city, just like many millennium cities around:Istanbul, Rome, London, Paris, Damascus, Cairo.We are only 60 years old, but we want to live foreveras a city, to live in peace.
时间： 8:32
zh-cn:谢谢！
en:Thank you very much.
时间： 8:34
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
