时间： 0:15
zh-cn:通过我遍及全球的工作，我要讲讲我的一些见闻。这不是关于行星的发现新技术或者科学。而是关乎人的故事他们的身份认同和新领导力。
en:I&#39;m going to talkabout some of my discoveriesaround the world through my work.These are not discoveries of planetsor new technologiesor science.They&#39;re discoveries of peopleand the way people are, and new leadership.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:这是本齐Benki。本齐是阿沙宁卡部落的领导者。他的族人生活在巴西和秘鲁。本齐来自亚马逊的一个偏远乡村，要到达那里，你要么做飞机，要么水陆过去，或者乘独木舟要好几天。三年前在圣保罗我遇见本齐，当我和他，还有其他原住民的首领和来自全球的领导者见面聚会，缘于我们想互相学习。我们想分享彼此的故事。
en:This is Benki.Benki is a leader of the Ashaninka Nation.His people live in Braziland in Peru.Benki comes from a villageso remote up in the Amazonthat to get there, either you have to flyand land on water,or go by canoe for several days.I met Benki three years ago in Sao Paulowhen I&#39;d brought him and other leadersfrom indigenous peoplesto meet with me and leaders from around the world,because we wanted to learn from each other.We wanted to share our stories with each other.
时间： 1:09
zh-cn:阿沙宁卡原住民在南美洲因他们的尊严，精神和他们的韧劲而著称，始于印加文化持续到19世纪收集橡胶的历史。今天对阿沙宁卡原住民和本齐最大的威胁来自于非法采伐木材—人们来到这美丽的森林砍伐古老的红木树，把它们顺河漂浮运输到世界市场。本齐知道这个事。他能看到，他赖以生存的环境和森林将会付出什么代价，因为他受命于他的祖父旨意当他仅有2岁时，就开始学习森林和他族人生活方式的关系。当他仅10岁时他祖父去世。在很小的年龄，10岁，本齐变成他族群的Paje帕杰首领。按现在阿沙宁卡传统文化，帕杰就是族群最重要的人物。帕杰就是自身掌握所有世纪以来的生活知识和智慧，不仅仅关于他族群的人民，还关乎于他族群人民赖以维系的一切东西：树木，鸟群，河水，土壤和森林。当他仅10岁时就变成帕杰，开始领导他的人民。他开始谈论必须要保护森林，并抚育他们的生活方式。他给族人详细解释这不是关于适者生存的问题；而是理解赖以他们维系生存的问题并保护森林。
en:The Ashaninka peopleare known throughout South Americafor their dignity, their spiritand their resistance,starting with the Incasand continuing through the 19th centurywith the rubber tappers.Today&#39;s biggest threat to the Ashaninka peopleand to Benkicomes from illegal logging —the people who come into the beautiful forestand cut down ancient mahogany trees,float them down the river to world markets.Benki knew this.He could see what was happening to his forest, to his environment,because he was taken under his grandfather&#39;s wingwhen he was only two years oldto begin to learn about the forestand the way of life of his people.His grandfather died when he was only 10.And at that young age, 10 years old,Benki became the paje of his community.Now, in the Ashaninka tradition and culture,the paje is the most importantperson in the community.This is the person who contains within himall the knowledge, all the wisdomof centuries and centuries of life,and not just about his people,but about everything that his people&#39;s survival depended on:the trees, the birds,the water, the soil, the forest.So when he was only 10 and he became the paje,he began to lead his people.He began to talk to themabout the forest that they needed to protect,the way of life they needed to nurture.He explained to themthat it was not a question of survival of the fittest;it was a question of understandingwhat they needed to surviveand to protect that.
时间： 2:57
zh-cn:八年后，但本齐是个10岁青年，第一次离开森林。他好似奥德赛行进三千英里来到里约热内卢参加地球峰会，告诉世界在他的微小，小角落所发生的变化。他希望世界能听他说，他才来。有些人听之，但不是每个人。你可能想象到一个年轻男人带有头饰和穿着他的长袍还要学会新语言，葡萄牙语，而不是英语，来到里约热内卢，建立一个沟通的桥梁去认识他先前从没遇到的人们—他们来自一个非常敌意的世界。但他没有绝望。
en:Eight years later,when he was a young man of 18,Benki left the forest for the first time.He went 3,000 miles on an odyssey to Rioto the Earth Summitto tell the world what was happeningin his tiny, little corner.And he went because he hoped the world would listen.Some did, not everybody.But if you can imagine this young manwith his headdress and his flowing robe,learning a new language, Portuguese,not to mention English,going to Rio,building a bridgeto reach out to people he&#39;d never met before —a pretty hostile world.But he wasn&#39;t dismayed.
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:本齐带回给村庄很多想法—新技术，新研究，理解未来的新方法。自从那时，本齐继续和他的族人工作，不仅仅包括阿沙宁卡的人，而是整个亚马逊的原住民甚至更多。他建了学校教育孩子要保护森林。他一同领导超过25%的原被砍伐摧毁土地的重新造林。他创建互助来帮助人们多样化他们的生计。他还为森林买来互联网和卫星技术—这两个技术使得人民自己可以检测滥伐森林，而且本齐代言森林向全世界发言。你要是见过本齐，问他：“你为什么做这个？你为什么要冒险？在一个敌意的世界，你为什么要置于易受攻击的地步？”他会告诉你，正如他告诉我的，他说：“我告诉自己，我的祖父母和我的曾祖父母为保护森林而留给了我什么呢？我有在做什么呢？”
en:Benki came back to his village full of ideas —new technologies, new research,new ways of understanding what was going on.Since that time,he&#39;s continued to work with his people,and not only the Ashaninka Nation,but all the peoples of the Amazon and beyond.He&#39;s built schoolsto teach children to care for the forest.Together, he&#39;s led the reforestationof over 25 percent of the landthat had been destroyed by the loggers.He&#39;s created a cooperativeto help people diversify their livelihoods.And he&#39;s brought the internet and satellite technologyto the forest —both so that people themselvescould monitor the deforestation,but also that he could speak from the forestto the rest of the world.If you were to meet Benkiand ask him, &quot;Why are you doing this?Why are you putting yourself at risk?Why are you making yourself vulnerableto what is often a hostile world?&quot;he would tell you,as he told me,&quot;I asked myself,&quot; he said,&quot;What did my grandparents and my great-grandparents doto protect the forest for me?And what am I doing?&quot;
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:我思考这个，我好奇当我的外孙，曾外孙，当他们问自己这同样问题时，我好奇他们会怎样答复。对我而言，世界正朝着一个我们不十分理解的未来发展，当我们内心深处真正关乎它时。我们不了解未来的具体情况，但未来有迹象，就像本齐在他周围看到的迹象。我了解到我们正用尽我们所需的东西。我们用尽淡水。矿物燃料。土地。气候变化会影响我们所有人。我不知道是怎样影响，但我知道这是一定的。比起过去任何时候，会有很多人—比起60多年以前，在未来40年中，将会有5倍多的人。我们正在用尽我们所需的。我们也了解到世界正以其他的方式变化着，自从1960年，世界上，三分之一的许多新国家成立独立国家。自尊心，政府系统 -盘算一下 -巨大变化。除此之外我们知道另外5个大国在未来将拥有发言权，而我们甚至还没有真正开始听过它们说—中国，印度，俄罗斯，南非和本齐的祖国巴西，在1988年宪法，本齐才享有他的公民权。
en:So when I think of that,I wonder what our grandchildrenand our great-grandchildren,when they ask themselves that question,I wonder how they will answer.For me, the world is veeringtowards a future we don&#39;t much wantwhen we really think about it deep inside.It&#39;s a future we don&#39;t know the details of,but it&#39;s a future that has signs,just like Benki saw the signs around him.We know we are running out of what we need.We&#39;re running out of fresh water.We&#39;re running out of fossil fuels.We&#39;re running out of land.We know climate change is going to affect all of us.We don&#39;t know how, but we know it will.And we know that there will be more of us than ever before —five times as many people in 40 yearsthan 60 years ago.We are running out of what we need.And we also knowthat the world has changed in other ways,that since 1960there are one-third as many new countriesthat exist as independent entities on the planet.Egos, systems of government —figuring it out —massive change.And in addition to that,we know that five other really big countriesare going to have a say in the future,a say we haven&#39;t even really started to hear yet —China, India,Russia, South Africaand Benki&#39;s own Brazil,where Benki got his civil rightsonly in the 1988 constitution.
时间： 6:29
zh-cn:但是大家要知道这些。你了解得多于本齐所知道的，当他离开森林，行进3千英里。大家也知道我们不要仅限于做我们一直做的事，因为我们将得到我们一直想要的结果。这提醒我所理解的一些事，百年前，当索尔兹伯里勋爵对维多利亚女王说，当她要求他，“请改变。”他说，“改变？为什么？事情本身就够糟的。”我们必须改变。当我展望世界，这对我而言是种使命，我们需要改变我们自身。我们需要新模式而成为领导者。我们需要成为领导者和世界人类一员的新模式。
en:But you know all that.You know more than Benki knew when he left his forestand went 3,000 miles.You also knowthat we can&#39;t just keep doing what we&#39;ve always done,because we&#39;ll get the resultswe&#39;ve always gotten.And this reminds me of something I understandLord Salisbury said to Queen Victoria over a hundred years ago,when she was pressing him, &quot;Please change.&quot;He said, &quot;Change?Why change?Things are bad enough as they are.&quot;We have to change.It&#39;s imperative to me, when I look around the world,that we need to change ourselves.We need new models of what it means to be a leader.We need new modelsof being a leader and a human in the world.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:我作为一个银行家的生活开始。目前我仅对我最要好的朋友承认我的北京。但在过去的8年，我做了一些及不寻常的事。我的工作带我周游世界，我有真正的机会见到像本齐的人和许多在他们的社区做出改变的人们—他们以不同视角看待世界，他们也会问不同的问题，由此产生不同的答案，他们了解他们用的过滤器，当他们去外面的世界。
en:I started life as a banker.Now I don&#39;t admit to thatto anybody but my very close friends.But for the past eight years,I&#39;ve done something completely different.My work has taken me around the world,where I&#39;ve had the real privilegeof meeting people like Benkiand many others who are making change happenin their communities —people who see the world differently,who are asking different questions,who have different answers,who understand the filters that they wearwhen they go out into the world.
时间： 7:54
zh-cn:这是僧伽蜜多。她来自于班加罗尔。在八年前我在班加罗尔遇到僧伽蜜多僧伽蜜多组织与不同非政府组织的领导人开关注一些社会最难的方面。僧伽蜜多不是以非政府组织的领导人起家的，她的职业开始于大学教授，传授英语文学。但她知道她要这样做会使她太脱离这世界。她喜爱英语文学，但她太超脱了。于是在1993年，很久以前，她决定开始新的组织叫萨姆拉卡莎Samraksha专注最难领域之一，在印度最头疼问题之一—当时在全球任何地方—人类免疫缺陷病毒/艾滋病。从那时起，萨姆拉卡莎逐步壮大，现在是印度健康非政府组织领导之一。但想想看在1993年，全球国家对人类免疫缺陷病毒/艾滋病的知识—那时在印度艾滋病引起格外关注，没人知道为什么，每个人的确非常，非常害怕与此相关话题。今天在印度还有三百万艾滋病毒抗体阳性者。在世界上它是第二大人群。
en:This is Sanghamitra.Sanghamitra comes from Bangalore.I met Sanghamitra eight years agowhen I was in Bangaloreorganizing a workshop with leaders of different NGO&#39;sworking in some of the hardest aspects of society.Sanghamitra didn&#39;t start lifeas a leader of an NGO,she started her career as university professor,teaching English literature.But she realized that she was much too detached from the world doing that.She loved it, but she was too detached.And so in 1993,a long time ago,she decided to start a new organizationcalled Samrakshafocused on one of the hardest areas,one of the hardest issues in India —anywhere in the world at the time —HIV/AIDS.Since that time, Samraksha has grownfrom strength to strengthand is now one of the leading health NGO&#39;s in India.But if you just think about the state of the worldand knowledge of HIV/AIDSin 1993 —in India at that time it was skyrocketingand nobody understood why,and everyone was actually very, very afraid.Today there are still three millionHIV-positive people in India.That&#39;s the second largest population in the world.
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:我问僧伽蜜多，“你怎么从英语文学跨行到艾滋病毒？”不寻常的路径，她说：“所有这一切都联系着。文学让人变敏感，对人敏感，他们的梦想和他们的想法敏感。”从那时，在她领导下，僧伽蜜多就成为有关艾滋病毒领域的先驱者。首先，他们有喘息家园，第一个关怀中心，第一个咨询服务—不仅仅服务于班加罗尔城市七百万人口，还包括卡纳塔克邦一些最难进入的乡村。甚至这还远远不够。她想改变政府层面的政策。她开创的10个计划现被政府资助并成为政策。今天在卡纳塔克邦有超过1000个乡村，由他们照顾2万人。
en:When I asked Sanghamitra,&quot;How did you get from English literatureto HIV/AIDS?&quot;not an obvious path,she said to me,&quot;It&#39;s all connected.Literature makes one sensitive,sensitive to people,to their dreams and to their ideas.&quot;Since that time, under her leadership,Samraksha has been a pioneerin all fields relatedto HIV/AIDS.They have respite homes, the first,the first care centers,the first counseling services —and not just in urban, 7-million-population Bangalore,but in the hardest to reach villagesin the state of Karnataka.Even that wasn&#39;t enough.She wanted to change policy at the government level.10 of their programs that she pioneeredare now government policy and funded by the government.They take care of 20,000-odd people todayin over 1,000 villages around Karnataka.
时间：10:09
zh-cn:她和像穆拉里·科瑞士纳一样的人一起工作。科瑞士纳也来自于那些乡村中的一个。几年前，因艾滋病毒他失去了他的妻子，他也是艾滋病毒阳性携带者。但他从僧伽蜜多和她团队带给乡村的工作，关怀，和同情中，他想成为他们中一员。他是一名领导者的探索研究员，在工作中帮助很大。他们已经开创了一个对乡村不同的方法。与其通过手册传递信息，就像往常方法，他们带来剧团，歌曲，音乐，舞蹈。他们就地而坐，谈论梦想。
en:She works with people like Murali Krishna.Murali Krishna comes from one of those villages.He lost his wife to AIDS a couple of years ago,and he&#39;s HIV-positive.But he saw the work, the care,the compassionthat Sanghamitra and her team brought to the village,and he wanted to be part of it.He&#39;s a Leaders&#39; Quest fellow, and that helps him with his work.They&#39;ve pioneered a different approach to villages.Instead of handing out information in pamphlets,as is so often the case,they bring theater troupes,songs, music, dance.And they sit around,and they talk about dreams.
时间：10:47
zh-cn:上周，僧伽蜜多刚告诉我—她刚从乡村回来2周—她有了实质性突破。当地人围坐成圈形，就乡村的梦想谈论。乡村的年轻女性发言说：“我们得改变我们的梦想。我们的梦想是基于我们的同伴，我们的丈夫，因为星象，不是基于我们，但因为他们被检测携带艾滋病毒，我们梦想是基于我们自己的。”如果你有幸见僧伽蜜多问她为什么，怎样取得如此大的成就？她会看着你非常平静地，非常温柔地说，“它就这样发生了。它是内心精神的体现。”
en:Sanghamitra told me just last week —she had just come back from two weeks in the villages,and she had a real breakthrough.They were sitting in a circle, talking about the dreams for the village.And the young women in the villagespoke up and said, &quot;We&#39;ve changed our dream.Our dreamis for our partners, our husbands,not to be given to us because of a horoscope,but to be given to usbecause they&#39;ve been tested for HIV.&quot;If you are lucky enough to meet Sanghamitraand ask her why and how,how have you achieved so much?She would look at youand very quietly, very softly say,&quot;It just happened.It&#39;s the spirit inside.&quot;
时间：11:37
zh-cn:这是樊建川博士。樊建川先生来自中国西南的四川省。他出身于1957年，大家可以想象一下他的童年和感受一下在过去的50年动荡中，他所经历的一生。他曾是一名军人，一位老师，一位政治家，一个副市长和一个商人。但你坐下来问他，“你到底是谁，你做了什么？”他会说，“我是个收藏家，我创建了一个博物馆。”我有幸听说过他好几年，最终今年早期在他的成都博物馆我见过他。
en:This is Dr. Fan Jianchuan.Jianchuan comes from Sichuan Provincein southwest China.He was born in 1957,and you can imagine what his childhoodlooked like and felt like,and what his life has been likeover the last 50 tumultuous years.He&#39;s been a soldier, a teacher,a politician, a vice-mayorand a business man.But if you sat down and asked him, &quot;Who are you really,and what do you do?&quot;He would tell you, &quot;I&#39;m a collector,and I curate a museum.&quot;I was lucky; I had heard about him for years,and I finally met him earlier this yearat his museum in Chengdu.
时间：12:18
zh-cn:他一生都在收集，始于1960年代初，他仅有4到5岁。现在想想看中国的1960年代初。在他一生中，通过任何收集，通过文化大革命和一切后来的收集，他不断收集，在他的博物馆，目前才会有超过八百万件记录当代中国历史的资料。这些资料是你在哪儿也不会找到的，部分是因为馆藏展示的历史记录部分是被中国人选择忘却的。例如，他藏有一百万件记录抗日战争，在中国人们非常不愿意谈论的一场战争，甚至抗日英雄都不被敬仰。那么他为什么做这些？因为他认为一个国家不应该重复它过去的错误。
en:He&#39;s been a collector all of his life,starting when he was four or five in the early 1960&#39;s.Now, just think of the early 1960&#39;s in China.Over a lifetime, through everything,through the Cultural Revolution and everything afterward,he&#39;s kept collecting,so that he now has over eight million piecesin his museumsdocumenting contemporary Chinese history.These are pieces that you won&#39;t find anywhere else in the world,in part because they document parts of historyChinese choose to forget.For example, he&#39;s got over one million piecesdocumenting the Sino-Japanese War,a war that&#39;s not talked about in China very muchand whose heroes are not honored.Why did he do all this?Because he thoughta nation should never repeat the mistakes of the past.
时间：13:11
zh-cn:所以从委托稍大于抗日战争英雄的生活铜像，包括那些互相打内战的中国人，自此离开中国大陆到台湾，用来纪念所有未知的，普通士兵，他们存活下来通过他们章手印，他确定— 人们确信—那段历史是不会被忘却的。樊建川先生不仅仅关注中国英雄。这个博物馆包括世界上最大的文献及文物收藏有关在那场持久战役中，和中国人民并肩作站并加以纪念的美国战斗英雄飞虎队。樊建川建有其他9个博物馆—它们都已经对公众开放—装满了文物的椽子记录当代中国历史。两个最敏感的博物馆藏有关于文化大革命的一生珍藏，多数中国人更倾向忘却这段历史时段。但樊建川先生不希望他的国家忘却这历史教训。
en:So, from commissioningslightly larger than life bronze statuesof the heroes of the Sino-Japanese War,including those Chinesewho then fought with each otherand left mainland China to go to Taiwan,to commemorating all the unknown,ordinary soldiers who survived,by asking them to take prints of their hands,he is making sure — one man is making sure —that history is not forgotten.But it&#39;s not just Chinese heroes he cares about.This building contains the world&#39;s largest collectionof documents and artifactscommemorating the U.S. rolein fighting on the Chinese sidein that long war —the Flying Tigers.He has nine other buildings —that are already open to the public —filled to the rafters with artifactsdocumenting contemporary Chinese history.Two of the most sensitive buildingsinclude a lifetime of collectionabout the Cultural Revolution,a period that actually most Chinesewould prefer to forget.But he doesn&#39;t want his nationever to forget.
时间：14:23
zh-cn:这些人激励我，因为他们展现给我们什么是可行的，当你环顾世界，在你所处的位置上来改变世界。他们放眼外部世界，然后改变他们自己内心世界。他们从没去过商业学校。也没读过手册“怎样通过轻松10步骤而成为一个优秀领导者。”但是他们都兼有我们都认可的品质。他们有动力，激情，责任。与他们先前做的事，他们的选择都截然不同，他们做了些自己都意料不到的事情。他们努力和以前不知晓的世界取得联系。他们架构桥梁，穿行于此。他们有种大脉络的时间感和他们自身所处的微小空间感。他们了解出现在他们面前的人们，反而互相跟随。他们清楚他们是一个整体的一部分，他们依赖于其他人。他们晓得这不仅关乎他们自己，但这得归功于他们。他们兼有人性关怀。这一切就这么发生了。
en:These people inspire me,and they inspire me because they show uswhat is possible when you change the wayyou look at the world,change the way you look at your place in the world.They looked outside,and then they changed what was on the inside.They didn&#39;t go to business school.They didn&#39;t read a manual, &quot;How to Be a Good Leaderin 10 Easy Steps.&quot;But they have qualities we&#39;d all recognize.They have drive, passion, commitment.They&#39;ve gone awayfrom what they did before,and they&#39;ve goneto something they didn&#39;t know.They&#39;ve tried to connect worldsthey didn&#39;t know existed before.They&#39;ve built bridges, and they&#39;ve walked across them.They have a sense of the great arc of timeand their tiny place in it.They know people have come before themand will follow them.And they know that they&#39;re part of a whole,that they depend on other people.It&#39;s not about them, they know that,but it has to start with them.And they have humility.It just happens.
时间：15:32
zh-cn:但我们知道它不只是发生，对吗？我们了解需要很努力才会使其发生，世界的轨迹在运转着。所以在全球议程上，我们需要继任计划。我们等不及下一代，新的活跃分子，加入和学习怎样成为我们所需的优秀领导者。我想就从我们自己开始吧。而我们也知道，就像他们所知，这有多难。但好消息是我们边行，用不着非得弄清楚；我们有模式，有例子，比如本齐，僧伽蜜多和樊建川。如果需要，我们可以看看他们做过的是。我们温故而知新。我们能改变我们自身所处的世界。如果我们有幸，我们能改变这世界，让我们曾孙来回复本齐的问题。
en:But we know it doesn&#39;t just happen, don&#39;t we?We know it takes a lot to make it happen,and we know the direction the world is going in.So I think we need succession planningon a global basis.We can&#39;t wait for the next generation, the new joiners,to come in and learn how to be the good leaders we need.I think it has to start with us.And we know, just like they knew,how hard it is.But the good news is that we don&#39;t have to figure it out as we go along;we have models, we have examples,like Benki and Sanghamitra and Jianchuan.We can look at what they&#39;ve done, if we look.We can learn from what they&#39;ve learned.We can change the way we see ourselves in the world.And if we&#39;re lucky,we can change the wayour great-grandchildrenwill answer Benki&#39;s question.
时间：16:26
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：16:28
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
