时间： 0:15
zh-cn:我有一个故事要跟大家分享一个有关非洲的故事一个有关希望，生命力和魅力的故事
en:I have a story, a story that I would like to share with you.And it&#39;s an African story.It is a story of hope, resilience and glamour.
时间： 0:27
zh-cn:先有了好莱坞然后有「宝莱坞」今天我们有「尼莱坞」：世界上第三大的尼日利亚电影业仅2006年，尼日利亚生产近2000部电影试想每周有40或50部电影在拉各斯市尼日利亚和西非的街道制作和分销据估计这个行业的价值有2亿5千万美元它创造了至少数以千计的工作而且这个行业仍在增长但请注意，这是一场由基层开始的运动没有外国投资没有政府的援助，实际上, 完全出乎预料它发生在尼日利亚经济最困难的时刻,该行业有15年的历史
en:There was Hollywood.Then came Bollywood.Today we have Nollywood, the third-largest film industry in the world.In 2006 alone, almost 2,000 films were made in Nigeria.Now, try to imagine 40, 50 films wrapped, distributed, every weekin the streets of Lagos, Nigeria and West Africa.Some estimates put the value of this industry at 250 million dollars.It has created thousands, if not tens of thousands of jobs.And it&#39;s expanding.But keep in mind that this was a grassroots movement.This is something that happened without foreign investment,without government aid, and actually, it happened against all odds,in one of the most difficult moments in Nigerian economy.The industry is 15 years old.
时间： 1:44
zh-cn:那么你可能会想为什么一个住在波士顿的意大利电影制片人会对这个故事感兴趣?我觉得我得简短的告诉你们我的一些个人生活的事情因为我觉得有关系我祖父一生大部分时间生活在赞比亚，也埋葬在那里我父亲成年的日子也大多在东非度过而我出生于赞比亚虽然我三岁时就离开了那里但我真的觉得非洲是我生命中的一大部分是我学会走路的地方开始呀呀学语的地方家人买了他们的第一间房子因此当我们回到意大利后我记忆最深刻的一件事情是我的家庭很难与人分享非洲的故事似乎对我们的邻居和朋友而言非洲要么是一个富有异国情调的虚构之地只存在于他们的想象当中要么是一个充满恐怖和饥荒的地方因此我们总是被固有的成见包围着我记得我有一种强烈的愿望，就是讲讲非洲一个我们曾经住过的地方，那里的人们同样过着他们的日子有着跟我们一样的梦想因此当我在一家报纸的商业版看到一则关于「尼莱坞」的故事我知道这是一个难得的机会来讲述一个与这些先入之见相反的故事
en:And so maybe you&#39;re thinking now,why, how, an Italian filmmaker based in Bostonis so interested in this story?And so I think I have to tell you just a few words,a few things about my personal life,because I think there is a connection.My grandfather lived most of his life and is buried in Zambia.My father also lived most of his adult life in East Africa.And I was born in Zambia.Even though I left when I was only three years old,I really felt that Africa was this big part of my life.And it really was a place where I learned to walk.I think I uttered the first words,and my family bought their first home.So when we came back to Italy,and one of the things that I remember the mostis my family having this hard time to share stories.It seemed that for our neighbors and friends,Africa was either this exotic place, this imaginary landthat probably exists only in their imagination,or the place of horror, famine.And so we were always caught in this stereotype.And I remember really this desire to talk about Africaas a place where we lived and people live and go about their lives,and have dreams like we all have.So when I read in a newspaper in the business pagethe story of Nollywood,I really felt this is an incredible opportunity to tell a storythat goes against all these preconceived notions.
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:这里我可以讲一个非洲人如何和我一样拍电影的故事对我來說，这实际上是一种启发凑巧的我是在波士顿大学数码影像艺术中心做驻中心的制片人我们看到数码技术是如何不断的改变而年轻独立制片人可以制造成本低廉的电影因此当我提议拍这个故事我得到大力的支持制作这部影片不仅有支持我还找到两个很棒的的合作伙伴, 跟我一起开始这次历险一个非常有才华的年轻摄影师-艾米科里根另一位是我的朋友和导师:罗伯特卡普托他是一位資深的「国家地理」制作人他说，佛朗哥，我在非洲工作了25年我不确定我曾经遇到过如此充滿希望和有趣的故事」
en:Here I can tell a story of Africans making movies like I do,and actually I felt this was an inspiration for me.I have the good fortune of being a filmmaker-in-residenceat the Center of Digital Imaging Arts at Boston University.And we really look how digital technology is changing,and how young, independent filmmakerscan make movies at a fraction of the cost.So when I proposed the story,I really had all the support to make this film.And not only had the support,I found two wonderful partners in crime in this adventure.Aimee Corrigan, a very talented and young photographer,and Robert Caputo, a friend and a mentor,who is a veteran of National Geographic,and told me, &quot;You know, Franco, in 25 years of covering Africa,I don&#39;t know if I have come across a storythat is so full of hope and so fun.&quot;
时间： 4:40
zh-cn:因此我们于2005年10月抵达拉各斯市与邦德艾玛鲁华会面一位才华横溢的导演，他今晚也在场我们打算给大家展现尼莱坞的情景这个神奇的电影工业我们追随邦德拍摄一部动作片的过程他的电影涉及贪污问题影片名叫「检查站」是关于警察贪污问题的他只有9天时间拍这部电影我们认为这是一个好故事
en:So we went to Lagos in October 2005.And we went to Lagos to meet Bond Emeruwa,a wonderful, talented film director who is with us tonight.The plan was to give you a portrait of Nollywood,of this incredible film industry,following Bond in his quest to make an action moviethat deals with the issue of corruption,called &quot;Checkpoint.&quot;Police corruption.And he had nine days to make it.We thought this was a good story.
时间： 5:17
zh-cn:与此同时，我们也记录了尼莱坞我们访问了许多电影制片人我不想制造过多的期望我就播放6分钟的內容这六分钟昰专为TED观众准备的这个纪录片有好几个主题我们重新编辑了给大家看我想这算是世界首映吧
en:In the meantime, we had to cover Nollywood,and we talked to a lot of filmmakers.But I don&#39;t want to create too many expectations.I would like to show you six minutes.And these are six minutes they really prepared for the TED audience.There are several themes from the documentary,but they are re-edited and made for you, OK?So I guess it&#39;s a world premier.
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:「影像」开拍在尼日利亚 你可以用1万美元拍一部不错的电影7天就可以完成我们拍的电影是給大众看的我们不是为精英一族和那些住在玻璃屋里的人而拍他们可以观看“机器战警”和他们感兴趣的任何电影我觉得在尼日利亚，制作电影，对于这个行业的人来说是一种维持生存需求的电影制作 - 他们以此为生不像好莱坞那种的大手笔的制作搞的越华丽堂皇越好因为你具备雄厚的资本
en:(Video)Man: Action.Milverton Nwokedi: You cut a nice movie with just 10,000 dollars in Nigeria here.And you shoot in seven days.Peace Piberesima: We&#39;re doing films for the masses.We&#39;re not doing films for the eliteand the people in their glass houses.They can afford to watch their &quot;Robocop&quot; and whatever.Mahmood Ali Balogun: I think filmmaking in Nigeria, for those who work in it,is a kind of subsistence filmmaking — what they do to make a living.It&#39;s not the fancy filmmaking where you say,oh, you want to put all the razzmatazz of Hollywood,and where you have big budgets.
时间： 6:30
zh-cn:在这里你拍一部电影如果卖得好，你就立刻开拍下一部新戏因为如果你不拍下一部电影，你会没饭吃我们应当能够寓教于乐
en:Here is that you make these films,it sells, you jump onto the location again to make another film,because if you don&#39;t make the next film, you&#39;re not going to feed.Bond Emeruwa: So while we&#39;re entertaining, we should be able to educate.
时间： 6:50
zh-cn:我相信影音的力量我是说90%的人观看尼莱坞电影我认为这是目前利用专用电缆传递信息的最可行方法因此如果你拍一部电影，不管内容是什么都应包含一个发人深省的道理当然你还得报告事件本身他需要及时的治疗我一直试图向人们解释目前的问题不是质量好坏 - 质量会逐渐提高我是说，有些电影是为追求质量而制作的。但是首先你别忘了非洲这个社会很多人的生活标准一天只有一美元而这些人才真正是这些电影的观众
en:I believe in the power of audiovisuals.I mean, 90 percent of the population will watch Nollywood.I think it&#39;s the most viable vehicle right nowto pass information across a dedicated cable.So if you&#39;re making a movie, no matter what your topic is,put in a message in there.Woman: You still have to report the incident.He needs proper medical attention.PP: I keep trying to explain to people,it&#39;s not about the quality at the moment — the quality is coming.I mean, there are those films that people are making for quality,but the first thing you have to remember about this societyis that Africa still has people that live on one dollar a day,and these are the people that really watch these films.
时间： 7:38
zh-cn:尼莱坞是一个神奇的行业刚刚在世界的这个角落诞生因为没人相信尼莱坞能够走出非洲但我们的电影讲述的故事可令人们产生共鸣这些故事是关于他们的，是为了他们而制作的所以每当他们观看这些故事的时候他们总是目不转睛充满悬念，乐趣丛生，引人入胜这样的喜剧大片能让人笑破肚皮
en:Sonny McDon W: Nollywood is a fantastic industrythat has just been born in this part of the world.Because nobody believed that Nollywood can come out of Africa.Lancelot Imasen: But our films,they are stories that our people can relate to themselves.They are stories about our people, for our people.And consistently, they are glued to their screenwhenever they see the story.Narrator: Suspense, fun and intrigue.It&#39;s the blockbuster comedy.You&#39;ll crack your ribs.
时间： 8:29
zh-cn:我们长期以来总是迷恋外国电影外国电影一直是关注的中心其实我们可以有所作为我们可以创作一些东西，当世界看到我们的创作他们会说，哇，这才是尼日利亚自首吧， 上士别出你自己的洋相来吧， 别跑了， 回来，回来
en:Bernard Pinayon Agbaosi: We have been so deep into the foreign movies.It&#39;s all about the foreign movies.But we can do something too.We can do something, something that when the world sees it,they say, wow, this is Nigeria.Man: Just arrest yourself, sergeant.Don&#39;t embarrass yourself.Come on. Don&#39;t run away. Come back. Come back.
时间： 8:59
zh-cn:现在你走在大街上，就能见到榜样那不是在电影里看到的你看到的是活生生的人你看他怎么样说话，怎么样生活他对你影响巨大不仅仅是你在电影里面所看到的不是你从西方媒体那里听到的再会，再见开拍
en:SMW: You can now walk the street and see a role model.It’s not just what you see in picture.You see the person live.You see how he talks. You see how he lives.He influences you really good, you know.It’s not just what you see in the picture.It is not what you hear, you know, from the Western press.Man: See you. Bye.Action.
时间： 9:24
zh-cn:我曾经痴迷那些西部牛仔电影但是当我认识到我的国家的处境那时腐败猖獗一个年轻人要想出人头地，就不得不寻找歪门邪道做坏事可是我不想那样后来我发现我可以当个成功的演员不用犯罪，欺骗别人，或者撒谎就靠我自己和上帝赋予的才能我们开始吧好的，到我们大显身手的时候了这儿就交给你了动作快点儿
en:Saint Obi: I was so fascinated, you know, with those cowboy movies.But then when I discovered the situation in my country,at that time there was so much corruption.For a young man to really make it out here,you got to think of some negative things and all that,or some kind of vices.And I didn&#39;t want that, you know.And I discovered that I could be successful in life as an actor,without doing crime, without cheating nobody, without telling no lies.Just me and God-given talent.Man: Let&#39;s go.OK, it&#39;s time to kick some ass.Cover this. It&#39;s your own.Move it.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:大国制作电影的时候他们设备精良但是在这儿，我们得临场发挥，想办法，比如说拍枪击他们说，现在， 马上开枪， 你看到枪支，却看不到开枪射击， 我们用剪接的办法我怕的是爆管飞到我脸上这就是我得用足够的胶带的原因胶带能固定住它等等，把这个给我拿着我只是在告诉她一定要放在合适的位置以免爆炸伤到我的脸其实她很专业，知道自己在做什么可是我也得保护我的脸呀这可不是我演的最后一部电影要知道，这里是尼莱坞， 是充满神奇魔力的地方
en:Roboger Animadu: In big countries, when they do the movies,they have all these things in place.But here, we improvise these items, like the gunshots.Like they go, here, now, now, you see the gun there,but you won&#39;t see any guns shot, we use knock-out.Kevin Books Ikeduba: What I&#39;m scared of is just the explosion will come up in my face.Woman: That&#39;s why I use enough masking tape.The masking tape will hold it.Wat, wait. Just hold this for me.KBI: I&#39;m just telling her to make sure she places it wellso that it won&#39;t affect my face — the explosion, you know.But she&#39;s a professional. She knows what she’s doing.I&#39;m trying to protect my face too.This ain&#39;t going to be my last movie.You know, this is Nollywood, where the magic lives.
时间：11:10
zh-cn:现在你马上就要看到我们如何制作电影不管有没有别人的帮助开拍停掌声
en:RA: So now you&#39;re about to see how we do our own movies here,with or without any assistance from anybody.Man: Action.Cut.(Applause)
时间：11:30
zh-cn:要说的太多，时间太少这个故事有众多主题我无法尽述， 我只想说一件事我和这些演员们，导演们，一起度过好几周的时间他们遇到的问题是一个西方导演，比如美国或者欧洲导演，无法想象的但是他们总是用微笑，和热情面对真让人叹服
en:Franco Sacchi: So many things to say, so little time.So many themes in this story.I just can&#39;t tell you — there’s one thing I want to tell you.I spent, you know, several weeks with all these actors, producers,and the problems they have to go through are unimaginablefor, you know, a Westerner, a filmmaker who works in America or in Europe.But always with a smile, always with an enthusiasm,that is incredible.
时间：11:55
zh-cn:德国电影制作人沃纳赫尔佐格说过我需要拍电影，就像你需要氧气我认为他们是在呼吸尼日利亚电影制片人真的是在做着自己喜欢的事情因此拍电影对他们是一件非常重要的事情对他们的观众也很重要一位女士告诉我，“当我看一部尼莱坞电影时，我能放松，真的呼吸都更顺畅
en:Werner Herzog, the German filmmaker said,&quot;I need to make movies like you need oxygen.&quot;And I think they’re breathing.The Nigerian filmmakers really, really, are doing what they like.And so it&#39;s a very, very important thing for them,and for their audiences.A woman told me, &quot;When I see a Nollywood film,I can relax, I really — I can breathe better.&quot;
时间：12:20
zh-cn:另一件重要的事我希望今天的听众更深有体会的就是技术，我对此很有兴趣而且我相信数码非线性编辑技术大大削减了电影制作成本现在电影成本是过去很小的一部分不到5千美元就能买到很棒的摄像机科技让巨大的创造力释放出来你猜怎么着？我们不用告诉尼日利亚电影制片人他们理解并欣然接纳了技术他们在使用新技术上得心应手我希望尼莱坞现象能够起双向作用我希望其他非洲国家能受到启发充分利用技术以尼日利亚为榜样，拍电影，创造就业机会为自己的人民创作能让他们感同身受的故事积极正面，并且能够提供心灵慰籍的故事并且是他们自己文化里的东西但是我认为尼莱坞现象更能给我们启示我确实认为尼莱坞的作用是双向的
en:There is also another very important thingthat I hope will resonate with this audience.It’s technology. I’m very interested in itand I really think that the digital non-linear editing has slashed, you know,the cost now is a fraction of what it used to be.Incredible cameras cost under 5,000 dollars.And this has unleashed tremendous energy.And guess what?We didn’t have to tell to the Nigerian filmmakers.They understood it, they embraced the technologyand they run with it, and they’re successful.I hope that the Nollywood phenomenon will go both ways.I hope it will inspire other African nations to embrace the technology,look at the Nigerian model, make their films, create jobs,create a narrative for the population, something to identify,something positive, something that really is psychological reliefand it&#39;s part of the culture.But I really think this is a phenomenon that can inspire us.I really think it goes both ways.
时间：13:21
zh-cn:我的电影制作人朋友们， 他们看到尼莱坞， 就会感叹哇， 他们做的正是我们真正想做的挣点儿钱， 以拍电影为生所以我认为是我们实际上从他们身上学到了东西有一件事，我给你们提出一个小小的挑战它能使我们反思讲故事的重要性我认为这正是这场演讲的主题试着想象一下一个食物和住所是唯一目标的世界，没有故事没有篝火边讲的故事没有传奇，没有神话什么都没有没有小说很难想象，对吧？毫无意义
en:Filmmakers, friends of mine, they look at Nollywood and they say,&quot;Wow, they are doing what we really want to do,and make a buck and live with this job.&quot;So I really think it’s a lessonthat we&#39;re actually learning from them.And there&#39;s one thing, one small challenge that I have for you,and should make us reflect on the importance of storytelling.And I think this is really the theme of this session.Try to imagine a world where the only goal is food and a shelter, but no stories.No stories around the campfire.No legends, no fairytales.Nothing.No novels.Difficult, eh? It&#39;s meaningless.
时间：14:08
zh-cn:那么，我是这样认为的我认为通往一个健康社会的钥匙就是一个生机勃勃的讲故事人的群体并且我认为尼日利亚电影制作人证实了这一点我想让你们听听他们的声音只是几个片段不是加上的续集， 只是来自尼莱坞的一些声音
en:So this is what I really think.I think that the key to a healthy societyis a thriving community of storytellers,and I think that the Nigerian filmmakers really have proved this.I would like you to hear their voices.Just a few moments.It’s not an added sequence, just some voices from Nollywood.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:尼莱坞是发生在他们身上最好的事情如果有一种工业能让人们脸上绽放笑容，那就是尼莱坞我想不久，我们不仅有更好的电影我们会有原汁原味的尼日利亚电影当然基本的主题还是那些爱情，动作但是我们是用我们自己的方式讲述这些故事，尼日利亚方式，非洲的方式我们有多元的文化，种类如此繁多，在我们的有生之年我不认为我们可以穷尽这些故事
en:(Video) Toyin Alousa: Nollywood is the best thing that can happen to them.If you have an industry that puts a smile on people&#39;s face,that’s Nollywood.SO: I believe very soon, we’re not only going to have better movies,we&#39;ll have that original Nigerian movie.BE: It’s still the same basic themes.Love, action.But we&#39;re telling it our own way, our own Nigerian way, African way.We have diverse cultures, diverse cultures, there are so many,that in the natal lifetimes,I don&#39;t see us exhausting the stories we have.
时间：15:13
zh-cn:我的任务到此结束。尼莱坞的电影制作人需要去工作了我非常希望未来会有很多很多的合作我们可以学习很多东西我真的希望这能够实现非常感谢掌声
en:FS: My job ends here, and the Nollywood filmmakers really have now to work.And I really hope that there will be many, many collaborations,where we teach each other things.And I really hope that this will happen.Thank you very much.(Applause)
时间：15:35
zh-cn:克里斯 安德森： 等一下，我有两个问题佛朗哥， 你说尼莱坞是世界上第三大电影工业那么在电影数量上这到底是个什么概念呢
en:Chris Anderson: Stop. I&#39;ve got two questions.Franco, you described this as the world&#39;s third largest film industry.What does that translate to in terms of numbers of films, really?
时间：15:47
zh-cn:佛朗哥： 对了， 我前面简单提到过，大约是两千部电影有科学的数据
en:FS: Oh, yes. I think I mentioned briefly — it&#39;s close to 2,000 films.There is scientific data on this.
时间：15:53
zh-cn:一年两千部电影吗？对，两千零五，两千零六部光是审查委员会就要审查一千六百部我们知道实际数量比这还多所以可以肯定有两千部想象一下一周生产45部电影有很多挑战，很多挑战电影生产过剩质量需要提高，他们必须走向更高层次但是我很乐观
en:CA: 2,000 films a year?FS: 2,000 films a year. 2005 or 6,the censor board has censored 1,600 films alone.And we know that there are more.So it’s safe to say that there are 2,000 films.So imagine 45 films per week.There are challenges. There are challenges.There is a glut of film,the quality has to be raised, they need to go to the next level,but I’m optimistic.
时间：16:19
zh-cn:克： 这些不是主要在影院里放映的电影吗？
en:CA: And these aren’t films that are primarily seen in cinemas?
时间：16:22
zh-cn:佛: 对了, 当然，这点很重要试想一下这些是直接在市场上分销的电影他们在录影带店里出售几分钱就可以租来看
en:FS: Oh yes, of course. This is very important.Maybe, you know, for you to try to imagine this,these are films that are distributed directly in markets.They are bought in video shops.They can be rented for pennies.
时间：16:37
zh-cn:克：用什么形式？
en:CA: On what format?
时间：16:38
zh-cn:弗： 形式，对了，谢谢你的问题，是VCD是一种CD(光碟)， 但是影象更加压缩他们开始的时候使用VHS(录影带)他们实际上并没有等待最新技术的到来他们是从92，94年开始的尼日利亚有五千七百万录像机可以播放录影带和光碟实际上它是一种光盘，压缩光盘
en:FS: Oh, the format — thank you for the question. Yes, it&#39;s VCDs.It&#39;s a CD, it&#39;s a little bit more compressed image.They started with VHS.They actually didn&#39;t wait for, you know, the latest technology.They started in &#39;92, &#39;94.So there are 57 million VCRs in Nigeriathat play, you know, VHS and these VCDs.It&#39;s a CD basically. It&#39;s a compact disc.
时间：17:03
zh-cn:克: 那么电影是在大街上卖的吗？
en:CA: So on the streets, are film casts ... ?
时间：17:05
zh-cn:佛:你可能在拉各斯遇上堵车你也许会买部电影， 或者香蕉，水什么的.是的笑声我必须说，这真的证明了讲故事是一种商品，一种必需品没有故事就没有生活
en:FS: You can be in a Lagos traffic jamand you can buy a movie or some bananas or some water. Yes.(Laughter)And I have to say, this really proves that storytelling,it&#39;s a commodity, it&#39;s a staple.There is no life without stories.
时间：17:24
zh-cn:克：佛朗哥，非常感谢你。
en:CA: Franco, thank you so much.
