时间： 0:11
zh-cn:TED 的讲台一向以人类为中心，但我想要加入一些动物的声音，它们的身体，思考和精神塑造我们。
en:Humanity takes center stage at TED,but I would like to add a voice for the animals,whose bodies and minds and spirits shaped us.
时间： 0:24
zh-cn:数年前，我非常有幸在温哥华附近的一座岛上，认识一位部落长老。他名叫吉米史密斯，他分享了一个在部落间广为流传的一个故事给我听，部落的住民称自己为 Kwikwasut&#39;inuxw
en:Some years ago, it was my good fortuneto meet a tribal elder on an islandnot far from Vancouver.His name is Jimmy Smith,and he shared a story with methat is told among his people,who call themselves the Kwikwasut&#39;inuxw.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:他说道，从前，现今地球上的所有动物是一样的。尽管它们外在看起来很不同，但它们的内心都一样，不时地，它们在森林深处一个令人害怕的洞穴聚会庆祝团聚。当它们到那里时，它们会褪去自己的皮囊。乌鸦褪去羽毛，熊脱去毛发，三文鱼脱去鳞片，随后，它们跳舞。但是有一天，一个人类找到了这个洞穴他对着眼前的一切大笑因为他无法理解。动物们感到尴尬便纷纷逃走，那就是最后一次它们这样不加掩饰地展现自己。
en:Once upon a time, he told me,all animals on Earth were one.Even though they look different on the outside,inside, they&#39;re all the same,and from time to time they would gatherat a sacred cave deep inside the forestto celebrate their unity.When they arrived,they would all take off their skins.Raven shed his feathers, bear his fur,and salmon her scales,and then, they would dance.But one day, a human made it to the caveand laughed at what he sawbecause he did not understand.Embarrassed, the animals fled,and that was the last timethey revealed themselves this way.
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:旧时的理解是动物们各自迥异的身份下，掩藏着同样的内心，这给我带来强烈的灵感。我想要穿过毛皮，羽毛和鳞片。我想要了解藏在皮肤里地东西。无论我是面对一只巨型的大象还是一只小小的树蛙，我的目标是，和它们沟通，心有灵犀。
en:The ancient understanding that underneaththeir separate identities, all animals are one,has been a powerful inspiration to me.I like to get past the fur, the feathersand the scales.I want to get under the skin.No matter whether I&#39;m facing a giant elephantor a tiny tree frog,my goal is to connect us with them, eye to eye.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:你可能会想，我有没有拍过人类呢？当然有。人类一直出现在我的摄影作品里，无论人类是以扮演乌龟或者豹子或者狮子的样子出现。你只需要了解如何看穿他们的伪装。
en:You may wonder, do I ever photograph people?Sure. People are always present in my photos,no matter whether they appearto portray tortoisesor cougarsor lions.You just have to learn how to look past their disguise.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:作为一个摄影师，我试图去达到超越我们基因外表下的不同来领会我们与其他生物的共同之处。当我使用照相机的时候，我脱掉皮肤就像洞穴里的动物们那样我就能展现出它们真实的样子。
en:As a photographer,I try to reach beyond the differencesin our genetic makeupto appreciate all we have in commonwith every other living thing.When I use my camera,I drop my skinlike the animals at that caveso I can show who they really are.
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:正如动物们被理性思维的力量庇佑，我们可以惊讶于生命的错综复杂。作为生活在处于困境中的行星上的公民，我们有处理生物多样性急剧降低的道德责任。但作为有心有感情的人类，我们都可以庆祝生命的联合，或许我们能够改变那个可怕洞穴里所发生的事。
en:As animals blessedwith the power of rational thought,we can marvel at the intricacies of life.As citizens of a planet in trouble,it is our moral responsibilityto deal with the dramatic loss in diversity of life.But as humans with hearts,we can all rejoice in the unity of life,and perhaps we can changewhat once happened in that sacred cave.
时间： 3:17
zh-cn:让我们加入动物们的舞蹈。
en:Let&#39;s find a way to join the dance.
时间： 3:22
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
