时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想带你们进入罗塞塔号史诗般的探险中去。护送这个探测器在一颗彗星上着陆，是我过去两年以来的热情所在。为了实现这个目标，我需要向你们解释关于太阳系起源的一些东西。
en:I&#39;d like to take you on the epic questof the Rosetta spacecraft.To escort and land the probe on a comet,this has been my passionfor the past two years.In order to do that,I need to explain to you somethingabout the origin of the solar system.
时间： 0:29
zh-cn:让我们回到45亿年前，有一个充满气体和灰尘的云团。在这个云团的中心，我们的太阳在那里形成并燃烧。与此同时，那些现在被我们称为行星、彗星和小行星的天体也形成了。随后，根据理论，在地球形成并且温度开始降低了一些的时候，彗星极大地影响了地球，并向地球输送了水分。它们可能还向地球输送了复杂的有机物质，而那有可能诱导了生命的出现。你们可以将这一过程与完成一个250块的拼图相比，而不是完成一个2000块的拼图。
en:When we go backfour and a half billion years,there was a cloud of gas and dust.In the center of this cloud,our sun formed and ignited.Along with that, what we now knowas planets, comets and asteroids formed.What then happened, according to theory,is that when the Earth had cooled downa bit after its formation,comets massively impacted the Earthand delivered water to Earth.They probably also deliveredcomplex organic material to Earth,and that may have bootstrappedthe emergence of life.You can compare this to havingto solve a 250-piece puzzleand not a 2,000-piece puzzle.
时间： 1:10
zh-cn:然后，像木星和土星这样的大行星，它们当时并不在今天所处的位置，它们会通过引力相互作用，并将整个太阳系内部打扫干净了，而我们现在称为彗星的天体最终到了一个叫做“柯伊伯带”的地方，这是一个海王星轨道以外的天体聚集带。有时这些天体会相互碰撞，并且发生了重力转移，木星的引力随后将它们拉回了太阳系。然后它们就变成了我们在天空中所见到的彗星。
en:Afterwards, the big planetslike Jupiter and Saturn,they were not in their placewhere they are now,and they interacted gravitationally,and they swept the whole interiorof the solar system clean,and what we now know as cometsended up in somethingcalled the Kuiper Belt,which is a belt of objectsbeyond the orbit of Neptune.And sometimes these objectsrun into each other,and they gravitationally deflect,and then the gravity of Jupiterpulls them back into the solar system.And they then become the cometsas we see them in the sky.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:需要注意的重点是，在此期间，这45亿年间，这些彗星一直安坐在太阳系之外，并且从没变过——深沉、冻结版的太阳系。
en:The important thing here to noteis that in the meantime,the four and a half billion years,these comets have been sittingon the outside of the solar system,and haven&#39;t changed —deep, frozen versions of our solar system.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:在空中，它们看起来是这样的。我们通过它们的尾巴认识它们。这里事实上有两条尾巴。一条是尘埃尾，是被太阳风吹出来的。另一条是离子尾，是带电粒子，它们受太阳系磁场的影响。可以看到慧发，还有慧核，小到几乎看不见，但是你们要记住在罗塞塔号的案例中，航天器就在那个中心像素上。我们距离这颗彗星只有20、30、40千米。
en:In the sky, they look like this.We know them for their tails.There are actually two tails.One is a dust tail,which is blown away by the solar wind.The other one is an ion tail,which is charged particles,and they follow the magnetic fieldin the solar system.There&#39;s the coma,and then there is the nucleus,which here is too small to see,and you have to rememberthat in the case of Rosetta,the spacecraft is in that center pixel.We are only 20, 30, 40 kilometersaway from the comet.
时间： 2:26
zh-cn:那么需要记住哪些关键点呢？彗星中含有来自太阳系形成时的原始物质，因此它们是用来研究地球和生命起源时所出现的成份的理想对象。彗星还很可能带来了那些引发了生命起源的元素。1983年，欧洲航天局开始了长期的地平线2000计划，它包含了一个基础项目，可能是一个造访彗星的任务。同时，一个小的造访彗星的任务，就是你们在这里看到的乔托号，启动了，1986年，它与其它航天器组成的舰队飞经了哈雷彗星。那次任务的结果清晰地表明，彗星是用来研究太阳系的理想天体。因此，1993年，罗塞塔任务被批准，最初它被设定在2003年发射，但是后来由于阿里亚娜火箭出现问题而被取消。然而，我们的公关部门，充满热情，他们已经制作了1000个代尔夫特蓝色瓷盘，并印上了那些错误的彗星名字。因此从那以后我没有买过任何的瓷器。这是积极的一面。（笑声）
en:So what&#39;s important to remember?Comets contain the original materialfrom which our solar system was formed,so they&#39;re ideal to study the componentsthat were present at the time when Earth, and life, started.Comets are also suspectedof having brought the elementswhich may have bootstrapped life.In 1983, ESA set upits long-term Horizon 2000 program,which contained one cornerstone,which would be a mission to a comet.In parallel, a small mission to a comet,what you see here, Giotto, was launched,and in 1986, flew by the comet of Halleywith an armada of other spacecraft.From the results of that mission,it became immediately clearthat comets were ideal bodies to studyto understand our solar system.And thus, the Rosetta missionwas approved in 1993,and originally it was supposedto be launched in 2003,but a problem arosewith an Ariane rocket.However, our P.R. department,in its enthusiasm,had already made1,000 Delft Blue plateswith the name of the wrong comets.So I&#39;ve never had to buy any china since.That&#39;s the positive part.(Laughter)
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:在所有的问题被解决之后，罗塞塔在2004年离开了地球，飞向重新被选定的彗星，丘留莫夫·格拉西缅科彗星。这颗彗星是被特别选中的，因为首先，你得能够到达它，其次，它没有在太阳系待太长时间。这颗特别的彗星在1959年进入太阳系。那是它被木星偏转后第一次来到太阳系，并且它跟太阳的距离近到足够让它发生变化。所以这是一颗非常新的彗星。
en:Once the whole problem was solved,we left Earth in 2004to the newly selected comet,Churyumov-Gerasimenko.This comet had to be specially selectedbecause A, you have tobe able to get to it,and B, it shouldn&#39;t have beenin the solar system too long.This particular comet has been in the solar system since 1959.That&#39;s the first timewhen it was deflected by Jupiter,and it got close enoughto the sun to start changing.So it&#39;s a very fresh comet.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:罗塞塔取得了很多历史性的突破。它是首个进入彗星轨道的人造卫星，并且伴随彗星走过了它的整个太阳系之旅——到达了距离最短的近日点，这个我们将会在8份看到，然后重新离开太阳系。这是第一次有航天器在彗星上着陆。我们实际上在罗塞塔号上使用了一些通常不会在其他航天器上使用的彗星轨道环绕技术。通常，你们看看天空，就会知道方位和坐标。但是在这个案例中，那还不够。我们通过观察彗星上的地标来导航。我们辨别那些特征——卵石、环形山——然后我们就知道我们处在彗星上哪个对应的区域。
en:Rosetta made a few historic firsts.It&#39;s the first satellite to orbit a comet,and to escort it throughoutits whole tour through the solar system —closest approach to the sun,as we will see in August,and then away again to the exterior.It&#39;s the first ever landing on a comet.We actually orbit the cometusing something which is notnormally done with spacecraft.Normally, you look at the sky and you knowwhere you point and where you are.In this case, that&#39;s not enough.We navigated by lookingat landmarks on the comet.We recognized features —boulders, craters —and that&#39;s how we know where we arerespective to the comet.
时间： 4:45
zh-cn:当然，这也是第一次使用太阳能电池飞跃木星轨道的航天器。这听起来比事实更称得上是壮举，因为那时放射性同位素热电机的技术在欧洲尚未得到应用，所以当时别无选择。但是这些太阳能电池板很大。这是它的一个侧翼，下面这些可不是特意挑选的矮小的人。他们是跟你我一样的正常人。（笑声）我们有两个这样的侧翼，65平米。随后，当然，当我们飞向这颗彗星时，你们会发现扬着一个65平米的帆向一个正在排气的天体靠近，并不总是一个便捷的选择。
en:And, of course, it&#39;s the first satelliteto go beyond the orbit of Jupiteron solar cells.Now, this sounds more heroicthan it actually is,because the technologyto use radio isotope thermal generatorswasn&#39;t available in Europe at that time,so there was no choice.But these solar arrays are big.This is one wing, and these are notspecially selected small people.They&#39;re just like you and me.(Laughter)We have two of these wings,65 square meters.Now later on, of course,when we got to the comet,you find out that 65 square meters of sailclose to a body which is outgassingis not always a very handy choice.
时间： 5:27
zh-cn:我们是怎么到达这颗彗星的呢？因为我们得去一个十分遥远的地方去完成罗塞塔号的科学目标——是地球到太阳距离的4倍——而且以一个我们用普通燃料无法达到的速度。因为我们得携带六倍于航天器本身重量的燃料。那要怎么做呢？在一个非常低的高度，大概几千公里，经过一个行星时，利用引力的拉扯效应和弹力作用，你就会直接获得跟那颗行星同样的绕日运行速度。我们尝试过很多次。在地球上，火星上 ，然后又在地球上试过两次，我们还飞掠了两颗小行星，鲁特西亚和斯坦斯。到了2011年，我们已经距离太阳太远了，如果这个航天器遇到问题，我们根本没办法挽救它了，所以我们进入了冬眠状态。除了一个计时器，所有的仪器都关掉了。这里你们看到白色的是它的轨道，以及运动轨迹。可以看到从一开始的这个圆，这条白线，我们可以得到越来越多的椭圆，最终我们在2014年5月靠近了这颗彗星，然后我们得开始做会合减速。
en:Now, how did we get to the comet?Because we had to go therefor the Rosetta scientific objectivesvery far away — four times the distanceof the Earth to the sun —and also at a much higher velocitythan we could achieve with fuel,because we&#39;d have to take six times asmuch fuel as the whole spacecraft weighed.So what do you do?You use gravitational flybys, slingshots,where you pass by a planetat very low altitude,a few thousand kilometers,and then you get the velocityof that planet around the sun for free.We did that a few times.We did Earth, we did Mars,we did twice Earth again,and we also flew by two asteroids,Lutetia and Steins.Then in 2011, we got so far from the sunthat if the spacecraft got into trouble,we couldn&#39;t actuallysave the spacecraft anymore,so we went into hibernation.Everything was switched offexcept for one clock.Here you see in white the trajectory,and the way this works.You see that fromthe circle where we started,the white line, actually you getmore and more and more elliptical,and then finally we approached the cometin May 2014, and we had to startdoing the rendezvous maneuvers.
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:在途中，我们飞经地球并拍了一些照片以测试我们的相机。这是月球在地球另一侧升起，这是我们现在所称的自拍，顺便说一下，那个时候“自拍”这个词还不存在。（笑声）这是在火星上， 由彗星红外与可见光分析仪相机拍摄的。那是着陆器上的一台相机，它看起来处在太阳能电池板的下方，你们能看到火星和太阳能电池板出现在远处。
en:On the way there, we flew by Earth and wetook a few pictures to test our cameras.This is the moon rising over Earth,and this is what we now call a selfie,which at that time, by the way,that word didn&#39;t exist. (Laughter)It&#39;s at Mars. It was takenby the CIVA camera.That&#39;s one of the cameras on the lander,and it just looks under the solar arrays,and you see the planet Marsand the solar array in the distance.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:当我们在2014年1月从冬眠中被唤醒后，我们开始前进，并在5月份到达了距离这个彗星200万公里的地方。然而，这个航天器的速度太快了。我们的时速要比这颗彗星快2800公里，因此我们需要刹一刹车。我们得做8次减速，可以看到，其中的一些减速幅度真的很大。我们的第一次减速需要将速度每小时降低数百公里，事实上这个过程花了7个小时，消耗了218公斤的燃料，这也是令人心惊胆战的7小时，因为在2007年，罗塞塔号的推进系统出现了一处泄漏，我们不得不关掉了一个分路，因此推进系统是在超出设计能力的压力下运行的。
en:Now, when we got outof hibernation in January 2014,we started arriving at a distanceof two million kilometersfrom the comet in May.However, the velocitythe spacecraft had was much too fast.We were going 2,800 kilometers an hourfaster than the comet, so we had to brake.We had to do eight maneuvers,and you see here,some of them were really big.We had to brake the first oneby a few hundred kilometers per hour,and actually, the duration of thatwas seven hours,and it used 218 kilos of fuel,and those were seven nerve-wracking hours, because in 2007,there was a leak in the systemof the propulsion of Rosetta,and we had to close off a branch,so the system was actuallyoperating at a pressurewhich it was never designedor qualified for.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:然后我们到达了这颗彗星的附近，这是我们看到的第一批照片。这颗彗星真实的自转周期是12.5个小时，所以这是加速播放的，但是你们肯定能够理解我们的飞行动力学工程师的想法，这不是一个容易登陆的东西。我们曾经幻想过它是某种形状像土豆一样的容易登陆的东西。但我们扔抱着一线希望：也许它比较平坦。不，它的表面还很粗糙。（笑声）
en:Then we got in the vicinity of the comet,and these were the first pictures we saw.The true comet rotation periodis 12 and a half hours,so this is accelerated,but you will understand thatour flight dynamics engineers thought,this is not going to bean easy thing to land on.We had hoped for some kindof spud-like thingwhere you could easily land.But we had one hope: maybe it was smooth.No. That didn&#39;t work either. (Laughter)
时间： 8:29
zh-cn:因此，当时我们迫不得已做出了如下选择：我们得利用收集到的所有细节去绘制这个天体的地图，因为我们得找到一块直径500米的平地。为什么是500米？这是我们让探测器着陆时的误差。于是我们立即采取行动并绘制出了彗星表面的地图。我们采用了一种叫做照相测斜术的技术。利用太阳拋下的阴影。你们现在看到的是一块位于彗星表面的岩石，而阳光从上面照下来。透过阴影，我们用大脑，可以立刻大致判断出这块岩石的形状。你可以编一套那样的程序，然后覆盖整颗彗星，就可以绘制出它表面的形貌图了。为此，我们从8月份开始沿着一种特殊的轨迹飞行。首先，在100公里外的地方沿着一个边长为100公里的三角形飞行，然后将三角形的边长改为50公里，再重复整个过程。那时候，我们已经通过所有的角度观察过这颗彗星了，我们也可以利用这一技术绘制出整个彗星的表面形貌。
en:So at that point in time,it was clearly unavoidable:we had to map this bodyin all the detail you could get,because we had to find an areawhich is 500 meters in diameter and flat.Why 500 meters? That&#39;s the errorwe have on landing the probe.So we went through this process,and we mapped the comet.We used a techniquecalled photoclinometry.You use shadows thrown by the sun.What you see here is a rocksitting on the surface of the comet,and the sun shines from above.From the shadow, we, with our brain,can immediately determineroughly what the shape of that rock is.You can program that in a computer,you then cover the whole comet,and you can map the comet.For that, we flew special trajectoriesstarting in August.First, a triangleof 100 kilometers on a sideat 100 kilometers&#39; distance,and we repeated the whole thing at 50 kilometers.At that time, we had seen the cometat all kinds of angles,and we could use this techniqueto map the whole thing.
时间： 9:30
zh-cn:现在，到了选择登陆地点的时候了。我们要做的就是在60天内，通过绘制这颗彗星的形貌图，来找到一个最终的登陆地点。我们没有更多的时间。对比一下，平均来说，火星上的任务需要成百上千的科学家花数年的时间去找到一个登陆地点。但我们只有60天，就那么多了。
en:Now, this led to a selectionof landing sites.This whole process we had to do,to go from the mapping of the cometto actually findingthe final landing site, was 60 days.We didn&#39;t have more.To give you an idea,the average Mars missiontakes hundreds of scientistsfor years to meetabout where shall we go?We had 60 days, and that was it.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:我们最终选定了一个登陆点，并且让罗塞塔号发送菲莱号的指令也准备好了。不过前提条件是罗塞塔号得处在空中的正确位置，并且瞄准这颗彗星，因为着陆器是被动的。它需要被推出并飞向彗星。罗塞塔号得转过身，以便使它的相机在菲莱飞离的过程中能对着它，并且能与它进行交流。
en:We finally selected the final landing siteand the commands were preparedfor Rosetta to launch Philae.The way this works is that Rosettahas to be at the right point in space,and aiming towards the comet,because the lander is passive.The lander is then pushed outand moves towards the comet.Rosetta had to turn aroundto get its cameras to actually lookat Philae while it was departingand to be able to communicate with it.
时间：10:21
zh-cn:整个着陆过程花了7个小时。简单的计算一下：如果罗塞塔号的速度误差是1厘米每秒，7个小时就是25000秒，那就意味着着陆器登陆彗星时的误差是252米。因此我们得将罗塞塔的速度误差精确到小于1厘米每秒，而它在太空中远离地球5亿公里的位置，误差要精确到100米以内。那不是一件易事。
en:Now, the landing durationof the whole trajectory was seven hours.Now do a simple calculation:if the velocity of Rosetta is offby one centimeter per second,seven hours is 25,000 seconds.That means 252 meters wrong on the comet.So we had to know the velocity of Rosettamuch better thanone centimeter per second,and its location in spacebetter than 100 metersat 500 million kilometers from Earth.That&#39;s no mean feat.
时间：10:56
zh-cn:让我快速的介绍一下其中的一些科学理论和仪器。我不会介绍所有仪器的细节，以免你们听得一头雾水，但想帮助你们了解一些概念。我们可以检测气体，测量粉尘，测它们的形状和成分，这里有磁力仪等等我们需要的一切。这是一部仪器所测到的罗塞塔号所处位置的气体密度的结果，这是从彗星上释放出来的气体。下面的图是去年9月份的。这是一个长期的变化，对于它本身来说可能不算什么，但是看看那些尖峰。这就是彗星上的一天。你们可以看到太阳对于气体蒸发的影响，以及彗星是旋转的这一事实。这里有一个点，很明显地，很多东西都出自那里，它被太阳加热，然后在背面冷却。我们可以看看这里的密度差异。
en:Let me quickly take you throughsome of the science and the instruments.I won&#39;t bore you with all the detailsof all the instruments,but it&#39;s got everything.We can sniff gas,we can measure dust particles,the shape of them, the composition,there are magnetometers, everything.This is one of the results froman instrument which measures gas densityat the position of Rosetta,so it&#39;s gas which has left the comet.The bottom graphis September of last year.There is a long-term variation,which in itself is not surprising,but you see the sharp peaks.This is a comet day.You can see the effect of the sunon the evaporation of gasand the fact that the comet is rotating.So there is one spot, apparently,where there is a lot of stuff coming from,it gets heated in the Sun,and then cools down on the back side.And we can seethe density variations of this.
时间：11:49
zh-cn:这些是我们已经测量到的气体和有机化合物。看得出这是一份令人印象深刻的列表，并且还会有更多更多的东西出现在上面，因为我们还进行了更多的测量。事实上，这会儿正有一个在休斯顿举行的会议，这些数据会在会上被展示出来。
en:These are the gasesand the organic compoundsthat we already have measured.You will see it&#39;s an impressive list,and there is much, much,much more to come,because there are more measurements.Actually, there is a conferencegoing on in Houston at the momentwhere many of these results are presented.
时间：12:07
zh-cn:我们还测量了尘粒。对于你们来说，这可能没什么太大的意义，但是当科学家们看到这个的时候都非常激动。两颗尘粒：右边的他们叫它鲍里斯，他们用钽去射击它，以便能够分析它。我们发现了钠和镁。而这也说明了这就是当太阳系刚形成时这两种物质的浓度，因此我们知道了当行星形成时存在着哪些物质。
en:Also, we measured dust particles.Now, for you, this will notlook very impressive,but the scientists were thrilledwhen they saw this.Two dust particles:the right one they call Boris,and they shot it with tantalumin order to be able to analyze it.Now, we found sodium and magnesium.What this tells you is this isthe concentration of these two materialsat the time the solar system was formed,so we learned things aboutwhich materials were therewhen the planet was made.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:当然，最重要的因素之一就是成像。这是罗塞塔号上的一个相机——奥西里斯相机——拍摄到的，而这实际上是《科学》杂志今年1月23日那一期的封面。没有人想到它看起来会是这样的。大卵石，岩石——相比于其它任何地方，它看起来更像是约塞米蒂的半屏岩。我们还看到了这样的东西：沙丘，还有在右手边，看起来像一些被风吹动的影子。我们在火星上发现过这些，但是这颗彗星没有大气层，所以要制造一个被风吹动的影子是有点困难的。这可能是局部的出气，有什么东西上升然后落下来。我们还不清楚，所以还要进行很多调查。这里有两张同一地点的图像。左手边这张，中间有一个坑。右手边这张，如果你们仔细看，有三股气流从那个坑的底部喷出。所以这就是这颗彗星的活动。显然，这些坑的底部就是活动区域，也是物质蒸发到空中去的地方。这颗彗星的脖子上有一个非常有趣的裂缝。就在右手边。它有1公里长，2.5米宽。有些人提出，事实上当我们向太阳靠近的时候，这颗彗星可能会一分为二，然后我们不得不做出选择，我们要去跟踪哪一半的彗星？这个着陆器——一样的，携带了很多仪器，除了一些打钻用的装置，其他大部分跟航天器上的差不多。与罗塞塔携带几乎一样的仪器是因为要把太空中发现的物质跟这颗彗星上的做比较。这被称为“地面实况调查”。
en:Of course, one of the importantelements is the imaging.This is one of the cameras of Rosetta,the OSIRIS camera,and this actually was the coverof Science magazineon January 23 of this year.Nobody had expectedthis body to look like this.Boulders, rocks — if anything, it looksmore like the Half Dome in Yosemitethan anything else.We also saw things like this:dunes, and what look to be,on the righthand side, wind-blown shadows.Now we know these from Mars,but this comet doesn&#39;t have an atmosphere,so it&#39;s a bit difficult to createa wind-blown shadow.It may be local outgassing,stuff which goes up and comes back.We don&#39;t know, so there isa lot to investigate.Here, you see the same image twice.On the left-hand side,you see in the middle a pit.On the right-hand side,if you carefully look,there are three jets coming outof the bottom of that pit.So this is the activity of the comet.Apparently, at the bottom of these pitsis where the active regions are,and where the materialevaporates into space.There is a very intriguing crackin the neck of the comet.You see it on the right-hand side.It&#39;s a kilometer long,and it&#39;s two and a half meters wide.Some people suggest that actually,when we get close to the sun,the comet may split in two,and then we&#39;ll have to choose,which comet do we go for?The lander — again, lots of instruments,mostly comparable except for the thingswhich hammer in the ground and drill, etc.But much the same as Rosetta, and that isbecause you want to comparewhat you find in spacewith what you find on the comet.These are calledground truth measurements.
时间：14:17
zh-cn:这些是奥西里斯相机拍摄的着陆下降时的图像。可以看到着陆器离罗塞塔号越来越远。右上角，是着陆器在60米外拍的照片，彗星表面60米以上。那个大卵石直径大约10米。这是我们在彗星上着陆之前所拍的最后一张照片。换个角度，再看一遍这整个过程，大家可以看到从图中的左下角到中间有三幅着陆器飞过彗星表面时的放大照。然后，在顶部有着陆之前和之后的对比照。唯一的问题就是在着陆后的照片中没有出现着陆器。但是你们仔细观察这张图像的右手边，我们看到着陆器仍然在那，但是它被反弹了。又离开了彗星表面。
en:These are the landing descent imagesthat were taken by the OSIRIS camera.You see the lander getting furtherand further away from Rosetta.On the top right, you see an imagetaken at 60 meters by the lander,60 meters above the surface of the comet.The boulder there is some 10 meters.So this is one of the last images we tookbefore we landed on the comet.Here, you see the whole sequence again,but from a different perspective,and you see three blown-upsfrom the bottom-left to the middleof the lander travelingover the surface of the comet.Then, at the top, there is a beforeand an after image of the landing.The only problem with the after image is,there is no lander.But if you carefully lookat the right-hand side of this image,we saw the lander still there, but it had bounced.It had departed again.
时间：15:10
zh-cn:现在，有点滑稽的是，本来在罗塞塔号的设计中，它会携带一个能反弹的着陆器。但是因为成本太高所以就放弃了。我们已经忘记了这件事，但是着陆器还记得。（笑声）第一次反弹期间，在磁力仪上，你们可以看到来自X、Y、Z三个坐标上的数据。半途中，你们可以看到一条红线。这条红线表示有变化产生。发生了什么呢？很显然是在第一次反弹期间，着陆器的一条腿在某个地方碰到了一个坑的边缘，然后着陆器的旋转速度被改变了。所以我们很幸运是处在当时的位置。
en:Now, on a bit of a comical note hereis that originally Rosetta was designedto have a lander which would bounce.That was discarded becauseit was way too expensive.Now, we forgot, but the lander knew.(Laughter)During the first bounce,in the magnetometers,you see here the data from them,from the three axes, x, y and z.Halfway through, you see a red line.At that red line, there is a change.What happened, apparently,is during the first bounce,somewhere, we hit the edge of a craterwith one of the legs of the lander,and the rotation velocityof the lander changed.So we&#39;ve been rather luckythat we are where we are.
时间：15:50
zh-cn:这是罗塞塔号拍的标志性的图片之一。那是一个人造物体，着陆器的一条腿，站在一颗彗星上。对我来说，这是我见过的最棒的空间科学的照片之一。
en:This is one ofthe iconic images of Rosetta.It&#39;s a man-made object,a leg of the lander,standing on a comet.This, for me, is one of the very bestimages of space science I have ever seen.
时间：16:05
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：16:10
zh-cn:未来的任务之一就是要找到这个着陆器。蓝色区域是我们知道的它应该所处的位置。我们还没能找到它，但是搜索仍在继续，同时我们也在努力让着陆器重新工作。我们每天都仔细监听，希望从现在到4月份的某个时候，这个着陆器会重新开始工作。
en:One of the things we still have to dois to actually find the lander.The blue area hereis where we know it must be.We haven&#39;t been able to find it yet,but the search is continuing,as are our efforts to start gettingthe lander to work again.We listen every day,and we hope that between nowand somewhere in April,the lander will wake up again.
时间：16:31
zh-cn:我们在这颗彗星上的发现是：这颗彗星可以在水上漂浮。它的密度是水的一半。因此它虽然看起来像一块大岩石，但实际上不是。去年6到8月间我们看到它的活跃性提高了4倍。当我们靠近太阳时，每秒种将会有100公斤的物质离开这颗彗星：气体、灰尘等等。1天的话就是1亿公斤。
en:The findings of whatwe found on the comet:This thing would float in water.It&#39;s half the density of water.So it looks likea very big rock, but it&#39;s not.The activity increase we sawin June, July, August last yearwas a four-fold activity increase.By the time we will be at the sun,there will be 100 kilosa second leaving this comet:gas, dust, whatever.That&#39;s 100 million kilos a day.
时间：17:00
zh-cn:最终，到了着陆的那一天。我将永生难忘——大家都疯狂了，在德国有250名电视台工作人员争相报道。在BBC采访我的同时，另一家电视台全天都在跟踪报道我的工作人员也拍下了我的访问过程，那种状况持续了一整天。探索频道的工作人员在我离开监控室时找到了我，并且提出了正确的问题，我当时激动得流下了眼泪，而那种感觉依旧挥之不去。此后的1个半月里，每次想到着陆日我都会热泪盈眶，并到现在那种情绪在我心中仍然存在。
en:Then, finally, the landing day.I will never forget — absolute madness,250 TV crews in Germany.The BBC was interviewing me,and another TV crewwho was following me all daywere filming me being interviewed,and it went on like thatfor the whole day.The Discovery Channel crewactually caught mewhen leaving the control room,and they asked the right question,and man, I got into tears,and I still feel this.For a month and a half,I couldn&#39;t think aboutlanding day without crying,and I still have the emotion in me.
时间：17:35
zh-cn:我想用这张这颗彗星的照片来结束今天的演讲。
en:With this image of the comet,I would like to leave you.
时间：17:37
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:40
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
