时间： 0:11
zh-cn:危地马拉正在从一场持续了36年的武装冲突中恢复。一场在冷战时期便发生的冲突。这本是一次左翼分子发起的小规模叛乱，然而政府的反应却是毁灭性的。我们掌握的数据显示有20万平民受害者，其中有16万人被集体杀害；小孩，男人，女人，甚至是老年人。另外还有4万人失踪，直到今天我们仍然在寻找。我们管他们叫失踪者（西班牙语）。
en:Guatemala is recovering froma 36-year armed conflict.A conflict that was foughtduring the Cold War.It was really just a small leftist insurgencyand a devastating response by the state.What we have as a resultis 200,000 civilian victims,160,000 of thosekilled in the communities:small children, men, women, the elderly even.And then we have about 40,000 others, the missing,the ones we&#39;re still looking for today.We call them the Desaparecidos.
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:83%的受害者是玛雅人，他们是中美洲地区原住民的后代。只有17%是欧洲后裔。然而最重要的是那些本应该保护我们的人——警察，军队，犯下了绝大部分的罪行。
en:Now, 83 percent of the victims are Mayan victims,victims that are the descendantsof the original inhabitants of Central America.And only about 17 percent are of European descent.But the most important thing here is thatthe very people who are supposed to defend us, the police, the military,are the ones that committedmost of the crimes.
时间： 1:07
zh-cn:现在家属想要了解真相。他们想知道发生了什么。他们想要回所爱之人的遗体。但最重要的是，他们想要每一个人，包括你在内，都了解他们的家人是无辜的。
en:Now the families,they want information.They want to know what happened.They want the bodies of their loved ones.But most of all,what they want is they want you,they want everyone to knowthat their loved ones did nothing wrong.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:我父亲在1980年收到了死亡威胁。所以我们离开了。我们离开危地马拉来到这里。所以我是在纽约长大的，更具体点说是在布鲁克林，我上的是新乌特勒支高中，然后从布鲁克林学院毕业。然而在当时我真的不了解危地马拉在发生什么。我没有去关注它；这太痛苦了。直到1995年我才决定要做些什么。所以我回去了。我回到危地马拉，去找寻那些遗体，去找寻过去发生了什么，同时也找寻自我的一部分。
en:Now, my case was that my fatherreceived death threats in 1980.And we left.We left Guatemala and we came here.So I grew up in New York,I grew up in Brooklyn as a matter of fact,and I went to New Utrecht High Schooland I graduated from Brooklyn College.The only thing was thatI really didn&#39;t know what was happening in Guatemala.I didn&#39;t care for it; it was too painful.But it wasn&#39;t till 1995 that I decidedto do something about it.So I went back.I went back to Guatemala, to look for the bodies,to understand what happenedand to look for part of myself as well.
时间： 2:01
zh-cn:我们为人们提供信息。我们和家属们交谈，让他们做出选择。让他们决定（是否）告诉我们他们的故事，描述他们的所见所闻，描述自己的爱人。更加重要的是，我们也让他们选择是否愿意贡献自己的一部分（指DNA）。关于他们身份的一段信息，一些精华。我们将这些DNA与骸骨里提取出来进行比对。
en:The way we work is thatwe give people information.We talk to the family membersand we let them choose.We let them decide to tellus the stories,to tell us what they saw,to tell us about their loved ones.And even more important,we let them choose togive us a piece of themselves.A piece, an essence, of who they are.And that DNA is what we&#39;re going to compareto the DNA that comesfrom the skeletons.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:我们一边比对，一边继续寻找遗体。现在（遗体）应该只剩下骸骨了，因为绝大部分罪行都发生在32年前。我们找到坟墓，移走泥土，清洗骸骨，登记注册，挖掘出来。我们真的会把骸骨从地下挖出来。
en:While we&#39;re doing that, though,we&#39;re looking for the bodies.And these are skeletons by now,most of these crimes happened 32 years ago.When we find the grave,we take out the dirt and eventually clean the body, document it, and exhume it.We literally bring the skeleton out of the ground.
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:挖出骸骨后，我们把它们带回来，带到我们的实验室，然后开始调查两件事：一是人是怎么死的。比方说这个人后脑有一处枪伤或者是被刀砍伤。二是这些人的身份。是一个婴儿，还是一个成人。是女人还是男人。当我们完成这（两）个分析后我们取下一小块骨头碎片提取出DNA。将这段DNA与之前那些家庭提供的DNA作比对。
en:Once we have those bodies, though,we take them back to the city, to our lab,and we begin a process of tryingto understand mainly two things:One is how people died.So here you see a gunshotwound to the back of the heador a machete wound, for example.The other thing we want to understandis who they are.Whether it&#39;s a baby,or an adult.Whether it&#39;s a woman or a man.But when we&#39;re donewith that analysiswhat we&#39;ll do is we&#39;ll take a small fragment of the boneand we&#39;ll extract DNA from it.We&#39;ll take that DNAand then we&#39;ll compare it with theDNA of the families, of course.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:为了便于理解，我给大家举两个例子。第一个例子来自军事日志。这份日志是在1999年从某处私运过来的。上面记录的是政府在监视部分人的情况，这些人，和你们一样，是想要改变这个国家的人，政府会把这些人的一切都记录下来。其中一条就是何时处决他们。在这个黄色方框中，有一个代码，这是一个秘密代码：300。后面还有一个日期。300表示“被处决”，而那个日期则是执行的日期。这两条信息我们马上会用到。我们调查了2003年的一次出土，当时我们从一个军事基地的53个坟墓里挖出了220具遗体。第9号坟墓（的骸骨）和塞尔吉奥·索尔·利纳瑞斯的家庭匹配上了。塞尔吉奥是一名大学教授。毕业于爱荷华州立大学，然后回到危地马拉去改变他的国家。他于1984年2月23日被捕。你如果看这里会知道，他是1984年3月29日被处决的，这真的令人不可思议。我们有骸骨，我们有家庭提供的信息和他们的DNA,现在我们手里还有文件，记录了事情的真相。
en:The best way to explain this to youis by showing you two cases.The first is the case of the military diary.Now this is a document that was smuggledout of somewhere in 1999.And what you see thereis the state following individuals,people that, like you, wanted to change their country,and they jotted everything down.And one of the things that they wrote down is when they executed them.Inside that yellow rectangle, you see a code,it&#39;s a secret code: 300.And then you see a date.The 300 means &quot;executed&quot; and the date means when they were executed.Now that&#39;s going to comeinto play in a second.What we did is we conductedan exhumation in 2003,where we exhumed 220 bodiesfrom 53 graves in a military base.Grave 9, though, matched the familyof Sergio Saul Linares.Now Sergio was a professorat the university.He graduted from Iowa State Universityand went back to Guatemalato change his country.And he was captured on February 23, 1984.And if you can see there, he was executed on March 29, 1984,which was incredible.We had the body, we had the family&#39;s information and their DNA,and now we have documentsthat told us exactly what happened.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:但最重要的是，两周之后，我们找到了另一个匹配的结果，来自同一个坟墓，和阿曼西奥·比利亚托罗（的DNA）匹配。来自残骸的DNA和他家庭成员的DNA相匹配。然后我们发现他也在日志中出现过。令人吃惊的是，我们发现他也是在1984年3月29日被处决的。我们开始思考，这个坟墓里到底有几具遗体？6具。又有多少人是在1984年3月29日被处决的？对的，也是6个人。所以还有胡安·德·迪奥斯，雨果，莫伊塞斯和索伊洛。他们都在同一天被处决——尽管他们是在不同的地方，不同的时刻被捕的——但都被放进了那个坟墓。我们现在唯一需要的便是那四个家庭的DNA。所以我们立刻出发，找到了他们。然后我们弄清了这6具遗体的身份，并归还给了他们的家属。
en:But most important is abouttwo weeks later,we go another hit, another matchfrom the same grave to Amancio Villatoro.The DNA of that bodyalso matched the DNA of that family.And then we noticedthat he was also in the diary.But it was amazing to see that he was also executed on March 29, 1984.So that led us to think, hmm, how many bodies were in the grave?Six.So then we said, how many peoplewere executed on March 29, 1984?That&#39;s right, six as well.So we have Juan de Dios, Hugo,Moises and Zoilo.All of them executed on the same date, all captured at different locationsand at different moments.All put in that grave.The only thing we needed nowwas the DNA of those four familiesSo we went and we looked for themand we found them.And we identified those six bodiesand gave them back to the families.
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:我想告诉你们的另一个案例，发生在一处叫“克雷欧姆帕斯”的军事基地。这个短语的意思是，“相信和平” ，然而它的全称实际上是“维和行动地区指挥中心”。来自其他国家的维和人员在这里接受危地马拉军方的训练，这些维和人员曾被联合国派往海地和刚果等国执行任务。有证词表明，在这个军事基地里，有遗体，有坟墓。所以我们带着搜查令去了，两个小时之后，我们找到了84个坟墓，以及总共533具遗体。大家想象一下，维和人员踩在尸体上受训。这场景多么讽刺。
en:The other case I want to tell you aboutis that of a military base called CREOMPAZ.It actually means, &quot;to believe in peace,&quot;but the acronym really meansRegional Command Centerfor Peacekeeping Operations.And this is where the Guatemalan militarytrains peacekeepers from other countries,the ones that serve with the U.N.and go to countrieslike Haiti and the Congo.Well, we have testimony that said thatwithin this military base,there were bodies, there were graves.So we went in there with a search warrantand about two hours after we went in,we found the first of 84 graves, a total of 533 bodies.Now, if you think about that,peacekeepers being trainedon top of bodies.It&#39;s very ironic.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:但那些遗体——绝大部分脸朝下，手被绑在身后，眼睛被蒙起来，伤痕累累——明显就是在毫无抵抗能力的情况下被处决的。有533个家庭正在寻找他们。我们重点看一下15号坟墓。我们发现15号坟墓，里面全是妇女和儿童，总共63个人。我们当时都震惊了，我的天呐，真是前所未见。1995年，当我抵达危地马拉的时候，我听说了一场发生在1982年5月14日的大屠杀，军队攻进来，杀光了男人，然后把女人和孩子用直升机运到了别处。猜猜发生了什么？这个坟墓里的衣服和那个地区的服饰匹配上了，就是刚才说的那些人，那些被带走的女人和小孩所居住的区域。
en:But the bodies — face down, most of them,hands tied behind their backs,blindfolded, all types of trauma —these were people who were defenselesswho were being executed.People that 533 families are looking for.So we&#39;re going to focus on Grave 15.Grave 15, what we noticed,was a grave full of women and children,63 of them.And that immediately made us think,my goodness, where is therea case like this?When I got to Guatemala in 1995,I heard of a case of a massacrethat happened on May 14, 1982,where the army came in, killed the men,and took the women and children in helicopters to an unknown location.Well, guess what?The clothing from this grave matched the clothing from the regionwhere these people were taken from,where these women and children were taken from.
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:之后我们进行了DNA测试，识别出了玛蒂娜·罗哈斯和曼纽尔·陈。他俩都在那次事件中失踪了，而现在我们可以证实这一点。我们有实体证据证明这些人都被带到了这个基地。曼纽尔·陈当时只有3岁。她妈妈到河边去洗衣服，把他交给邻居照看。就是在那时军队来了，他被一架直升机带走，再也没有出现过，直到我们在15号坟墓里找到了他。
en:So we conducted some DNA analysis,and guess what?We identified Martina Rojas and Manuel Chen.Both of them disappeared in that case,and now we could prove it.We have physical evidence thatproves that this happenedand that those people were taken to this base.Now, Manuel Chen was three years old.His mother went to the river to wash clothes, and she left him with a neighbor.That&#39;s when the army cameand that&#39;s when he was taken away in a helicopter and never seen againuntil we found him in Grave 15.
时间： 7:56
zh-cn:在考古学、人类学、遗传学等科学的帮助下，我们能让弱势群体发出自己的声音。但我们并未止步于此。我们为审判提供证据，比如去年在危地马拉举行的种族屠杀审判，其中里奥斯·蒙特将军因种族屠杀罪被判刑80年。
en:So now with science, with archaeology, with anthropology, with genetics,what we&#39;re doing is, we&#39;regiving a voice to the voiceless.But we&#39;re doing more than that.We&#39;re actually providing evidence for trials,like the genocide trial that happened last year in Guatemalawhere General Ríos Montt was found guiltyof genocide and sentenced to 80 years.
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:所以我今天来是想告诉大家这样的事情仍在发生——就在我们眼皮底下，就在墨西哥——而我们必须行动起来。我们必须团结一致，痛下决心，不要再让家破人亡的惨剧发生。不要再有惨剧了，朋友们。好吗？不要再有惨剧了。
en:So I came here to tell you todaythat this is happening everywhere —it&#39;s happening in Mexicoright in front of us today —and we can&#39;t let it go on anymore.We have to now come together and decidethat we&#39;re not going to have any more missing.So no more missing, guys.Okay? No more missing.
时间： 8:34
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 8:35
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
