时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我要跟大家分享一下我所领导的大学马里兰大学巴尔的摩分校（UMBC）的成功经验我们如何去教育个性迥异的学生无论是艺术、人文、科学还是工程领域我们的故事之所以非常重要是因为我们招收的学生并不是一开始就是学术界的佼佼者而是有色人种或那些常被忽视的人群而我们的故事有一个独特之处就是我们学会了如何帮助非洲裔学生、拉丁裔学生和低收入家庭来的学生成为世界顶尖的科学技术和工程人才
en:So I&#39;ll be talking about the success of my campus,the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, UMBC,in educating students of all types,across the arts and humanities and the science and engineering areas.What makes our story especially importantis that we have learned so much from a group of studentswho are typically not at the top of the academic ladder —students of color, students underrepresented in selected areas.And what makes the story especially uniqueis that we have learned how to help African-American students, Latino students,students from low-income backgrounds,to become some of the best in the world in science and engineering.
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:我想从我的童年开始讲起我们都是童年经历的产物真是很难相信我从九年级毕业已经有50年了那时候我还是阿拉巴马州伯明翰市的一个学习用功，总是拿到A的小孩那时候我还是阿拉巴马州伯明翰市的一个学习用功，总是拿到A的小孩我酷爱数学，喜欢阅读常跟老师说——当老师在课堂上宣布“作业是这10道题目”的时候矮胖的我总是说，“再来10道！”然后全班的孩子都嚷到，“闭嘴，Freeman！”也是使得我变成了公认的出气桶所以我当时一直纠结于一个问题我们怎样让更多的孩子喜欢学习？
en:And so I begin with a story about my childhood.We all are products of our childhood experiences.It&#39;s hard for me to believe that it&#39;s been 50 yearssince I had the experience of being a ninth grade kid in Birmingham, Alabama,a kid who loved getting A&#39;s,a kid who loved math, who loved to read,a kid who would say to the teacher —when the teacher said, &quot;Here are 10 problems,&quot; to the class,this little fat kid would say, &quot;Give us 10 more.&quot;And the whole class would say, &quot;Shut up, Freeman.&quot;And there was a designated kicker every day.And so I was always asking this question:&quot;Well how could we get more kids to really love to learn?&quot;
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:一次教堂发生的奇妙事情给了我答案我当时是很不情愿去教堂的所以我坐在最后一排做我的数学题然后我听到一个男人说“如果我们的孩子们能够参与到伯明翰的和平示威游行中来那么我们就能够向全美国人民宣告就连小孩子都能辨别出其中的对错而我们的孩子们有多么想要得到最好的教育”我抬起头来问，“这个人是谁？”别人告诉我说他就是马丁·路德·金博士然后我对我的父母说，“我要去参加游行。”“我想去，我想要成为他们的一员。”父母说，“想都别想。”
en:And amazingly, one week in church,when I really didn&#39;t want to be thereand I was in the back of the room being placated by doing math problems,I heard this man say this:&quot;If we can get the childrento participate in this peaceful demonstration here in Birmingham,we can show America that even children know the difference between right and wrongand that children really do want to get the best possible education.&quot;And I looked up and said, &quot;Who is that man?&quot;And they said his name was Dr. Martin Luther King.And I said to my parents, &quot;I&#39;ve got to go.I want to go. I want to be a part of this.&quot;And they said, &quot;Absolutely not.&quot;
时间： 2:23
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:我跟父母别扭了一段时间。在那个年代我们很少反驳或顶撞自己的父母但我那次顶撞了回去：“知道么，你们言行不一。”“你们让我去教堂，让我去听演讲，”“当这个人号召我去参与的时候，你们却说‘不行’。”他们想了整整一个晚上第二天早晨他们出现在了我的门口他们一宿没睡他们整晚都在哭泣着为我担心和祈祷“我们是否应该让我们的孩子”“这个12岁的孩子冒着被逮捕入狱的危险参加游行？”终于他们下定了决心当他们刚告诉我这个决定的时候我兴奋极了然后突然间我开始想像自己游行时被狼狗追咬，被高压水枪冲的画面我一下害怕极了，真的从我的这段经历中我知道了一个道理有时候有些人满怀勇气去做一件事情或许并不表示他真的有那样的勇气他只是相信这件事情非常重要，一定要去做
en:And we had a rough go of it.And at that time, quite frankly, you really did not talk back to your parents.And somehow I said, &quot;You know, you guys are hypocrites.You make me go to this. You make me listen.The man wants me to go, and now you say no.&quot;And they thought about it all night.And they came into my room the next morning.They had not slept.They had been literally crying and praying and thinking,&quot;Will we let our 12-year-oldparticipate in this march and probably have to go to jail?&quot;And they decided to do it.And when they came in to tell me,I was at first elated.And then all of a sudden I began thinking about the dogs and the fire hoses,and I got really scared, I really did.And one of the points I make to people all the timeis that sometimes when people do things that are courageous,it doesn&#39;t really mean that they&#39;re that courageous.It simply means that they believe it&#39;s important to do it.
时间： 3:14
zh-cn:我希望接受更好的教育我希望我们能够有很多新的课本我希望我所在的学校不仅拥有好的老师还能拥有足够我们所需的资源这次经历的一个收获当时我还被关在牢里马丁·路德·金博士拜访我的父母, 说当时我还被关在牢里马丁·路德·金博士拜访我的父母, 说“你们的孩子今天的牺牲必将会影响到尚未出生的下一代”
en:I wanted a better education.I did not want to have to have hand-me-down books.I wanted to know that the school I attendednot only had good teachers, but the resources we needed.And as a result of that experience,in the middle of the week, while I was there in jail,Dr. King came and said with our parents,&quot;What you children do this daywill have an impact on children who have not been born.&quot;
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:我最近才意识到今天三分之二的美国人是在1963年之后出生的对于他们来说，当他们通过电视或其它的方式听到当年的伯明翰少年游行或许跟他们看电影《林肯》的感觉差不多：太遥远了重要的是，我们从中学到了什么？这个问题的答案或许让你觉得意外最重要的是孩子们能够自己掌控教育的主动权他们学习的热情可以被启发出来渴望学习，并且热衷提出自己的问题
en:I recently realized that two-thirds of Americans todayhad not been born at the time of 1963.And so for them, when they hear about the Children&#39;s Crusade in Birmingham,in many ways, if they see it on TV,it&#39;s like our looking at the 1863 &quot;Lincoln&quot; movie:It&#39;s history.And the real question is, what lessons did we learn?Well amazingly, the most important for me was this:That children can be empowered to take ownership of their education.They can be taught to be passionateabout wanting to learn and to love the idea of asking questions.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:在马里兰大学巴尔的摩分校（UMBC）这种现象尤其显著在马里兰大学巴尔的摩分校（UMBC）这种现象尤其显著这所大学创办于1963年，我与金博士入狱那一年而现在我负责领导该校的事务这所学校的创办意义重大是因为马里兰州属于南方州（美国南方的种族歧视更严重）而且，实际上，这是当时全美第一所自创办之日就没有进行种族限制的大学黑人学生、白人学生和其他肤色学生都在此求学这是一场持续了50年的实验实验的目的是弄清楚我们的大学乃至国家是否能够拥有这样一种体系能够让学生不分背景成分的来此求学学习如何与人合作、如何领导团队能够在这场实验中学会相互帮助？
en:And so it is especially significantthat the university I now lead,the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, UMBC,was founded the very year I went to jail with Dr. King, in 1963.And what made that institutional founding especially importantis that Maryland is the South, as you know,and, quite frankly, it was the first university in our statefounded at a time when students of all races could go there.And so we had black and white students and others who began to attend.And it has been for 50 years an experiment.The experiment is this:Is it possible to have institutions in our country, universities,where people from all backgrounds can come and learnand learn to work together and learn to become leadersand to support each other in that experience?
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:现在这场实验对我而言的重要之处在于：我们发现在艺术、人文和社会科学领域大有可为于是我们从60年代开始就在这些领域发力我们培养了大量的人文和法律人才我们培养出大量的艺术家，Beckett 就是其中的佼佼者我们有很多学生投入了演艺事业很成功现在我们面对的问题，是美国一直以来都存在的黑人学生在自然科学和工程学领域还没有我们期待的那样成功但是当我开始研究这件事情我发现，很明显的，有很多学生大量的学生没能坚持学完这两个领域的课程基于这些研究结果我们开始着手尝试帮助改善这一现状首先是底层的非洲裔学生，然后是拉丁裔学生
en:Now what is especially important about that experience for me is this:We found that we could do a lot in the arts and humanities and social sciences.And so we began to work on that, for years in the &#39;60s.And we produced a number of people in law, all the way to the humanities.We produced great artists. Beckett is our muse.A lot of our students get into theater.It&#39;s great work.The problem that we faced was the same problem America continues to face —that students in the sciences and engineering,black students were not succeeding.But when I looked at the data,what I found was that, quite frankly, students in general,large numbers were not making it.And as a result of that,we decided to do something that would help, first of all,the group at the bottom, African-American students, and then Hispanic students.
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:我们得到了慈善家梅尔霍夫夫妇的资助罗伯特·梅尔霍夫一直有个疑问：“为什么每次在电视中看到有关黑人孩子的新闻，除了打篮球的，都不是好消息？我想要改变这一现象，做一些充满正能量的事情”我们交流了想法，建立了梅尔霍夫奖学金计划这个项目最大的收获是让我们从中学到了很多东西像是我们学校是如何帮助非洲裔美国学生完成自然科学博士学位以及工程学硕士博士学位？这是很大的成就，请给我一点掌声很大的成就，真的
en:And Robert and Jane Meyerhoff, philanthropists, said, &quot;We&#39;d like to help.&quot;Robert Meyerhoff said, &quot;Why is it that everything I see on TV about black boys,if it&#39;s not about basketball, is not positive?I&#39;d like to make a difference, to do something that&#39;s positive.&quot;We married those ideas, and we created this Meyerhoff Scholars program.And what is significant about the programis that we learned a number of things.And the question is this:How is it that now we lead the country in producing African-Americanswho go on to complete Ph.D.&#39;s in science and engineering and M.D./Ph.D.&#39;s?That&#39;s a big deal. Give me a hand for that. That&#39;s a big deal.That&#39;s a big deal. It really is.
时间： 6:31
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:其实很多人都没有意识到自然科学和工程学领域学不好的不仅仅是少数种族坦白地说，所有的美国民族都表现的不尽如人意你可能不知道，大学入学时报考自然科学及工程学并顺利拿到相关专业文凭的非洲裔和西班牙裔学生只有20%在一样的领域, 白人学生比例則是32%在一样的领域, 白人学生比例則是32%而亚裔学生只有42%
en:You see, most people don&#39;t realizethat it&#39;s not just minorities who don&#39;t do well in science and engineering.Quite frankly, you&#39;re talking about Americans.If you don&#39;t know it, while 20 percent of blacks and Hispanicswho begin with a major in science and engineeringwill actually graduate in science and engineering,only 32 percent of whites who begin with majors in those areasactually succeed and graduate in those areas,and only 42 percent of Asian-Americans.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:所以真正的问题是，根源在哪里？当然，大学之前的教育（K-12）很重要我们需要强化 K-12 教育但是另一方面需要我们去改变的是大学校园中自然科学和工程学的教学文化可能你不知道，很多 SAT（美国的高考）高分考生学分很高的学生进入美国的著名大学之后入学时选读医学预科或者工程预科后来很多学生都转去了别的专业我们后来发现导致还专业的首要原因竟然是因为他们第一年的成绩不理想事实上美国大学第一年的自然科学和工程学课程我们管这些课程叫“筛选课程”
en:And so, the real question is, what is the challenge?Well a part of it, of course, is K-12.We need to strengthen K-12.But the other part has to do with the cultureof science and engineering on our campuses.Whether you know it or not, large numbers of students with high SAT&#39;sand large numbers of A.P. creditswho go to the most prestigious universities in our countrybegin in pre-med or pre-engineering and engineering, and they end up changing their majors.And the number one reason, we find, quite frankly,is they did not do well in first year science courses.In fact, we call first year science and engineering, typically around America,weed-out courses or barrier courses.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:你们之中有多少人，认识一些人在大学里先是读的医学或工程学预科然后在一两年内换了专业？这是美国面对的难题。一半的人我知道，我知道这个结果好玩的地方是这些人都那么聪明，本来可以完成学业的我们需要找到合适的途径帮助他们
en:How many of you in this audience know somebodywho started off in pre-med or engineeringand changed their major within a year or two?It&#39;s an American challenge. Half of you in the room.I know. I know. I know.And what is interesting about thatis that so many students are smart and can do it.We need to find ways of making it happen.
时间： 7:50
zh-cn:在过去及現在, 我們是用哪四项法宝来帮助弱勢学生？在过去及現在, 我們是用哪四项法宝来帮助弱势学生？法宝一：提高期望这基于对大学生学科准备阶段的理解综合他们的分数，课程任务的苛刻性他们的考试技巧，他们的态度他们心中的火焰，对课程的热情，来实现目标提前做足准备让学生准备好读这些专业是非常重要的但是同样重要的是，我们也需要强调努力才有成功我不关心你有多聪明，或自己自己觉得自己多聪明“聪明”在这里仅仅表示你没有准备好去学习学习新东西让你兴奋，让你提出高质量的问题
en:So what are the four things we did to help minority studentsthat now are helping students in general?Number one: high expectations.It takes an understanding of the academic preparation of students —their grades, the rigor of the course work,their test-taking skills, their attitude,the fire in their belly, the passion for the work, to make it.And so doing things to help students prepare to be in that position, very important.But equally important, it takes an understanding that it&#39;s hard work that makes the difference.I don&#39;t care how smart you are or how smart you think you are.Smart simply means you&#39;re ready to learn.You&#39;re excited about learning and you want to ask good questions.
时间： 8:26
zh-cn:诺贝尔奖得主 I. I. Rabi 小时候住在纽约他的同学的家长会问他的同学：“今天在学校学了什么新东西？” 每天如此他说她的犹太裔妈妈问的就不一样：“Izzy，今天你有提出有质量的问题么？”所以“高期望值”需要兴趣作为支撑需要鼓励年轻人的好奇心这些高期望值的效果之一就是我们发现有些学生变得更加主动从我们这里寻找帮助不仅仅是为了通过考试拿到学位而是更进一步的追求更高的目标
en:I. I. Rabi, a Nobel laureate, said that when he was growing up in New York,all of his friends&#39; parents would ask them&quot;What did you learn in school?&quot; at the end of a day.And he said, in contrast, his Jewish mother would say,&quot;Izzy, did you ask a good question today?&quot;And so high expectations have to do with curiosityand encouraging young people to be curious.And as a result of those high expectations,we began to find students we wanted to work withto see what could we do to help them,not simply to survive in science and engineering,but to become the very best, to excel.
时间： 8:59
zh-cn:这里有一个很好的例子一个年轻人的第一门课拿到了C，他想去读医学我们说，“我们需要让你重修这门课程，“因为在进入下一个阶段之前你需要一个坚实的基础”基础的牢固与否直接影响你在后续课程的表现他重修了之前的课程这个年轻人顺利从 UMBC 毕业后成为了宾州大学第一个黑人医学博士（M.D./Ph.D.）他现在在哈佛任职精彩的故事，给他一点掌声
en:Interestingly enough, an example:One young man who earned a C in the first course and wanted to go on to med school,we said, &quot;We need to have you retake the course,because you need a strong foundation if you&#39;re going to move to the next level.&quot;Every foundation makes the difference in the next level.He retook the course.That young man went on to graduate from UMBC,to become the first black to get the M.D./Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.He now works at Harvard.Nice story. Give him a hand for that too.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:28
zh-cn:法宝二：分数不是唯一分数很重要，但是并不是最重要的一个年轻女学生很优秀，但是分数不高但是她有一个很好的优点她从小到大从来没有缺过一次课她有着学习的热情她坚持了下来，她拿到了 Hopkins 大学的医学博士学位她留校任教，拥有精神病学终身教职，神经科学博士学位她和她导师拥有一项利用万艾可治疗糖尿病的专利为她鼓掌，请给她一点掌声（掌声）提高期望是很重要的
en:Secondly, it&#39;s not about test scores only.Test scores are important, but they&#39;re not the most important thing.One young woman had great grades, but test scores were not as high.But she had a factor that was very important.She never missed a day of school, K-12.There was fire in that belly.That young woman went on, and she is today with an M.D./Ph.D. from Hopkins.She&#39;s on the faculty, tenure track in psychiatry, Ph.D. in neuroscience.She and her adviser have a patent on a second use of Viagra for diabetes patients.Big hand for her. Big hand for her.(Applause)And so high expectations, very important.
时间：10:02
zh-cn:然后是让学生建立他们自己的圈子你们都经常听说，在科学和工程领域竞争非常残酷学生没有获得团队合作方面的教育而我们要做的就是把他们结合起来让他们相互了解建立信任，相互支持学习如何提出有质量的问题以及如何清晰的阐述概念你也知道的，自己拿到高分是一回事帮助他人做得更好是另外一回事这种责任感对于整个世界的影响都是巨大的所以让学生之间建立联系，这点非常重要
en:Secondly, the idea of building community among the students.You all know that so often in science and engineeringwe tend to think cutthroat.Students are not taught to work in groups.And that&#39;s what we work to do with that groupto get them to understand each other,to build trust among them, to support each other,to learn how to ask good questions,but also to learn how to explain concepts with clarity.As you know, it&#39;s one thing to earn an A yourself,it&#39;s another thing to help someone else do well.And so to feel that sense of responsibility makes all the difference in the world.So building community among those students, very important.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:法宝三：依靠专业人士培养专业人士在艺术领域，艺术家培养出新的艺术家在社会科学领域也是如此，这是一条通用的原则自然科学和工程学领域也没有例外，例如学生需要在科学家的带动下开始相关的工作所以我们学校的学生固定会去实验室干活
en:Third, the idea of, it takes researchers to produce researchers.Whether you&#39;re talking about artists producing artistsor you&#39;re talking about people getting into the social sciences,whatever the discipline — and especially in science and engineering, as in art, for example —you need scientists to pull the students into the work.And so our students are working in labs regularly.
时间：10:55
zh-cn:对于这点有一个例子值得一提有一年巴尔的摩下了很大的暴风雪这个得到霍华休斯医学研究中心赞助的家伙暴风雪刚过去就跑回实验室工作而他所有的学生都坚持呆在实验室他们自带干粮，把实验室挤满了他们来实验室工作他们把这些工作视为自生命的一部分，而不仅仅是作业而已他们知道他们在研究的是艾滋病防治他们醉心于创造新蛋白质的过程尤其值得关注的是那里的每个人都非常专注而他说，“没有比这更美好的了。”
en:And one great example that you&#39;ll appreciate:During a snowstorm in Baltimore several years ago,the guy on our campus with this Howard Hughes Medical Institute grantliterally came back to work in his lab after several days,and all these students had refused to leave the lab.They had food they had packed out.They were in the lab working,and they saw the work, not as schoolwork, but as their lives.They knew they were working on AIDS research.They were looking at this amazing protein design.And what was interesting was each one of them focused on that work.And he said, &quot;It doesn&#39;t get any better than that.&quot;
时间：11:31
zh-cn:法宝四：当你已经给了他们高度期望已经建立了学生圈子，已经有专业人士培养你需要找到乐于跟学生交流的老师愿意跟学生打交道，甚至是在教室（而不是实验室）我一直记得一个老师打电话给另一个教员，说：我发现班里有个年轻人，一个黑人小伙子似乎对他现在的工作没有兴趣他不做笔记。我们要跟他聊聊故事的重点是这位教员用心观察了每个学生的表现用心去识别谁在用心听，谁又在开小差并且说，“让我看看能为他做些什么我要找同事一起解决。”就是这种相互的连接那个年轻人现在是杜克大学神经工程学教员，医学博士让我们为他鼓掌
en:And then finally, if you&#39;ve got the communityand you&#39;ve got the high expectations and you&#39;ve got researchers producing researchers,you have to have people who are willing as facultyto get involved with those students, even in the classroom.I&#39;ll never forget a faculty member calling the staff and saying,&quot;I&#39;ve got this young man in class, a young black guy,and he seems like he&#39;s just not excited about the work.He&#39;s not taking notes. We need to talk to him.&quot;What was significant was that the faculty member was observing every studentto understand who was really involved and who was notand was saying, &quot;Let me see how I can work with them.Let me get the staff to help me out.&quot;It was that connecting.That young man today is actually a faculty member M.D./Ph.D. in neuroengineering at Duke.Give him a big hand for that.
时间：12:10
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：12:12
zh-cn:值得一提的是我们开发的这套作法实实在在的帮助了我们，不仅仅是一些衡量指标好看我们还从中学到的一点是我们需要重新设计我们的课程于是我们改革了化学专业、物理专业现在我们正在尝试改革人文和社科专业太多这些专业的学生觉得课程无聊了你知道么？很多学生，无论是大学前还是大学生他们不愿意干坐在那里听别人讲课他们需要参与其中
en:And so the significance is that we have now developed this modelthat is helping us, not only finally with evaluation, assessing what works.And what we learned was that we needed to think about redesigning courses.And so we redesigned chemistry, we redesigned physics.But now we are looking at redesigning the humanities and social sciences.Because so many students are bored in class.Do you know that?Many students, K-12 and in universities,don&#39;t want to just sit there and listen to somebody talk.They need to be engaged.
时间：12:40
zh-cn:于是我们这么做了——看看我们化学探索中心的网页你会发现全国各地的人都在关注我们如何改革化学课程强调合作的重要性，强调对技术的利用解决我们的生物科技公司遇到的实际问题不是死板的传授理论而是让学生自己去挑战这些理论这些改动在我们马里兰大学的教育系统中非常成功越来越多的课程正被改革
en:And so we have done — if you look at our website at the Chemistry Discovery Center,you&#39;ll see people coming from all over the countryto look at how we are redesigning courses,having an emphasis on collaboration, use of technology,using problems out of our biotech companies on our campus,and not giving students the theories,but having them struggle with those theories.And it&#39;s working so well that throughout our university system in Maryland,more and more courses are being redesigned.
时间：13:05
zh-cn:这称为学术创新
en:It&#39;s called academic innovation.
时间：13:07
zh-cn:这些意味着什么？这意味着现在，我们不仅针对科学和工程领域而且在艺术、人文、社会科学方向都有了计划甚至是师范教育和 IT 女性培养计划或许你不知道，从2000年至今计算机专业女学生比例已经下降了79%而我想要传达的观点是建立学生之间的联系，鼓励女学生、少数裔学生以及所有的学生，肯定他们能够完成学业非常的重要最重要的一点，让他们能够有机会跟教员一起工作，让教员指导他们并且评估什么措施有效什么措施需要改进最最重要的，是学生的自我意识他们心中的梦想和价值将会改变世界，这真叫人激动
en:And what does all of that mean?It means that now, not just in science and engineering,we now have programs in the arts, in the humanities, in the social sciences,in teacher education, even particularly for women in I.T.If you don&#39;t know it, there&#39;s been a 79-percent declinein the number of women majoring in computer science just since 2000.And what I&#39;m saying is that what will make the differencewill be building community among students,telling young women, young minority students and students in general,you can do this work.And most important, giving them a chance to build that communitywith faculty pulling them into the workand our assessing what works and what does not work.Most important, if a student has a sense of self,it is amazing how the dreams and the valuescan make all the difference in the world.
时间：13:55
zh-cn:当我12岁时被关在伯明翰监狱的时候我一直在想，“不知道我的未来会是什么样子。”我不知道这个伯明翰的黑人小孩子竟然有一天成为一所拥有来自150个国家学生的大学的校长这所学校的学生并不满足于混个文凭他们热爱学习，他们享受做到最好这些学生有能力改变世界
en:When I was a 12-year-old child in the jail in Birmingham,I kept thinking, &quot;I wonder what my future could be.&quot;I had no idea that it was possible for this little black boy in Birminghamto one day be president of a university that has students from 150 countries,where students are not there just to survive,where they love learning, where they enjoy being the best,where they will one day change the world.
时间：14:21
zh-cn:亚里士多德说过，“优秀绝不会出自偶然优秀是强烈的动机、不懈的努力和智慧的共同结果它体现了所有选项中最具智慧的一个。”接下来他说的话让我震撼不已他说，“决定你命运的，不是机会，而是选择。”不是机遇，而是你的选择，决定了你的命运、梦想和价值
en:Aristotle said, &quot;Excellence is never an accident.It is the result of high intention, sincere effort and intelligent execution.It represents the wisest option among many alternatives.&quot;And then he said something that gives me goosebumps.He said, &quot;Choice, not chance, determines your destiny.&quot;Choice, not chance, determines your destiny, dreams and values.
时间：14:50
zh-cn:非常感谢
en:Thank you all very much.
时间：14:52
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
