时间： 0:11
zh-cn:帕特·米切尔：那天2011年1月8日，像所有其它日子一样开始。你们俩都在做着自己所喜爱的事情你正在会见选民这是你作为一个国会议员而喜欢做的事。而马克，你正在开心地准备着你的下一次太空穿梭突然间，全部你所计划好的事情或者生命中值得期待的事情都被不可挽回地永远改变了
en:Pat Mitchell: That day,January 8, 2011, began like all others.You were both doing the work that you love.You were meeting with constituents,which is something that you loved doingas a congresswoman,and Mark, you were happily preparingfor your next space shuttle.And suddenly, everything that you had plannedor expected in your liveswas irrevocably changed forever.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:马克·凯利：是的，真是感叹，令人感叹的是，它如何能在一瞬间改变我们的所有事情人们没有意识到我当然也没有加贝·吉福兹：是的马克：在那个周六的早上我接到这个可怕的电话是加贝的幕僚长打来的她没有更多其他的信息她只是说：“加贝被枪击中了。”几分钟之后，我打回给她我其实想了一下嗯，或许我只是在想象中接到这个电话我打回给她，就是那个时候她告诉我加贝被击中了头部而从那一刻起我就知道我们的生活将会天翻地覆
en:Mark Kelly: Yeah, it&#39;s amazing,it&#39;s amazing how everything can changefor any of us in an instant.People don&#39;t realize that.I certainly didn&#39;t.Gabby Giffords: Yes.MK: And on that Saturday morning,I got this horrible phone callfrom Gabby&#39;s chief of staff.She didn&#39;t have much other information.She just said, &quot;Gabby was shot.&quot;A few minutes later, I called her backand I actually thought for a second,well, maybe I just imagined getting this phone call.I called her back, and that&#39;s when she told methat Gabby had been shot in the head.And from that point on,I knew that our lives were going to be a lot different.
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:帕特：那么当你到达医院时他们告诉你关于加贝的预后如何如果可以的话你能指望什么程度的康复？
en:PM: And when you arrived at the hospital,what was the prognosis that they gave youabout Gabby&#39;s condition and what recovery, if any,you could expect?
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:马克：对于头部的枪伤以及外伤性脑损伤他们通常都无法告诉你太多每一个创伤都是不同的，它不像中风通常可以预测这是另一种TBI式的创伤所以他们无法知道加贝会陷入昏迷多久无法预料什么时候会发生变化以及预后会怎么样
en:MK: Well, for a gunshot wound to the headand a traumatic brain injury,they typically can&#39;t tell you much.Every injury is different. It&#39;s not predictablelike often a stroke might be predictable,which is another TBI kind of injury.So they didn&#39;t know how longGabby would be in a coma,didn&#39;t know when that would changeand what the prognosis would be.
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:帕特：加贝，你的痊愈是一个努力创造新的加贝·吉福兹还是重塑旧的加贝·吉福兹的过程？
en:PM: Gabby, has your recoverybeen an effort to create a new Gabby Giffordsor reclaim the old Gabby Giffords?
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:加贝：新的我 - 更好，更强壮，更坚毅（掌声）
en:GG: The new one — better, stronger, tougher.(Applause)
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:马克：就是说当你看着我们身后的照片从那样的创伤中康复过来以及比以往变得坚强，强壮实在是一件很艰难的事情我不知道有没有人像我这位了不起的妻子一样坚毅（掌声）
en:MK: That to say,when you look at the picture behind us,to come back from that kind of injuryand come back strong and stronger than everis a really tough thing to do.I don&#39;t know anybodythat&#39;s as tough as my wonderful wife right here.(Applause)
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:帕特：那么什么是最初的迹象表明了痊愈不只是可能的而且你开始有了一些的想象关于你和加贝能重新过上曾经计划中的生活？
en:PM: And what were the first signsthat recovery was not only going to be possiblebut you were going to have some semblanceof the life that you and Gabby had planned?
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:马克：嗯，对于我来说，第一件事是虽然加贝仍是几乎不省人事但当她仍在症加强护理病房的病床上时，她做了一些事情是她过去常常做的当我们出去餐厅吃晚饭时她会摘掉我的戒指然后她会把它从一个手指换到下一个手指在那一刻我知道了她仍然是她帕特：肯定还有某些词语她刚开始说话的时候没有让你大吃一惊吗？
en:MK: Well, the first thing, for me, wasGabby was still kind of almost unconscious,but she did something when shewas in the ICU hospital bedthat she used to do when we mightbe out to dinner at a restaurant,in that she pulled my ring offand she flipped it from one finger to the next,and at that point I knewthat she was still in there.PM: And there were certain words, too.Didn&#39;t she surprise you with words in the beginning?
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:马克：嗯，刚开始是有点困难加贝：什么？什么？鸡肉，鸡肉，鸡肉
en:MK: Well, it was tough in the beginning.GG: What? What? Chicken. Chicken. Chicken.
时间： 3:14
zh-cn:马克：是的，就是这样在最初的一个月里那就是加贝的所有的词汇因为某一些原因，她患上了失语症就是语言沟通有困难她抓住”鸡肉“这个词这不是最好的，但肯定也不是最坏的（笑声）而我们实际上很担心她的情况可以比那个糟糕得多帕特：加贝，最困难的挑战是什么？在你康复过程中
en:MK: Yeah, that was it.For the first month, that was the extentof Gabby&#39;s vocabulary.For some reason, she has aphasia,which is difficulty with communication.She latched on to the word &quot;chicken,&quot;which isn&#39;t the best but certainly is not the worst.(Laughter)And we were actually worriedit could have been a lot worse than that.PM: Gabby, what&#39;s been the toughest challengefor you during this recovery?
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:加贝：说话。真的很难，真的
en:GG: Talking. Really hard. Really.
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:马克：是的，虽然有失语症，但加贝清楚什么是她想说的她只是说不出来她明白所有的事情但是交流却非常困难因为当你看着图片你的语言中枢所在的那一部分大脑在你头部的左侧正是子弹穿过的地方
en:MK: Yeah, with aphasia, Gabbyknows what she wants to say,she just can&#39;t get it out.She understands everything,but the communication is just very difficultbecause when you look at the picture,the part of your brain wherethose communication centers areare on the left side of your head,which is where the bullet passed through.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:帕特：所以你不得不做一件很危险的事帮你的妻子说话
en:PM: So you have to do a very dangerous thing:speak for your wife.
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:马克：我的确这么做这可能是我所做过最危险的事之一了
en:MK: I do.It might be some of the mostdangerous things I&#39;ve ever done.
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:帕特：加贝，你乐观吗？对于你持续的康复走路，说话能活动你的手脚
en:PM: Gabby, are you optimisticabout your continuing recovery —walking, talking,being able to move your arm and leg?
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:加贝：我是乐观的。这过程可能漫长而困难但是我是乐观的
en:GG: I&#39;m optimistic. It will be a long, hard haul,but I&#39;m optimistic.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:帕特：看来那是加贝·吉福兹的首要特质你们说呢？ （掌声）
en:PM: That seems to be the number one characteristic of Gabby Giffords,wouldn&#39;t you say? (Applause)
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:马克：加贝永远都是这么的乐观她每天都非常努力
en:MK: Gabby&#39;s always been really optimistic.She works incredibly hard every day.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:加贝：在跑步机上，在我的跑步机上走西班牙语课程，法国号
en:GG: On the treadmill, walked on my treadmill,Spanish lessons, French horn.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:马克：这只有我的妻子能做到如果你在她受伤前就认识她你大概就会明白了她能在经历受伤以及一段沟通非常困难的时期去见语言治疗师后然后在大概一个月前，她说“我想重新学习西班牙语。”
en:MK: It&#39;s only my wife who could be —and if you knew her before she was injured,you would kind of understand this —somebody who could be injuredand have such a hard time communicatingand meets with a speech therapist,and then about a month ago, she says,&quot;I want to learn Spanish again.&quot;
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:帕特：嗯，让我们更仔细看看你的妻子，这是更早在你遇见加贝·吉福兹以前她坐在那摩托车上但据我了解那已经是一个非常低调的形象在加贝·吉福兹的成长过程中
en:PM: Well, let&#39;s take a little closer lookat the wife, and this was even beforeyou met Gabby Giffords.And she&#39;s on a motor scooter there,but it&#39;s my understanding that&#39;s a very tame imageof what Gabby Giffords was like growing up.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:马克：是的，加贝她过去常常赛车所以那是个小型摩托车，但她有——嗯，她仍拥有一辆BMW摩托车
en:MK: Yeah, Gabby, she used to race motorcycles.So that&#39;s a scooter, but she had —well, she still has a BMW motorcycle.
时间： 5:29
zh-cn:帕特：她还骑吗？马克：嗯，那是一个挑战她没法移动她的右手臂但我想用某些我知道的东西，魔术贴我们或许能让她重新骑上摩托车，用魔术贴把她的右手固定在手把上
en:PM: Does she ride it?MK: Well, that&#39;s a challengewith not being able to move her right arm,but I think with somethingI know about, Velcro,we might be able to get her back on the bike,Velcro her right hand up onto the handlebar.
时间： 5:46
zh-cn:帕特：我感觉在不久的将来我们能看到那个画面加贝但你们相遇的时候，你已经决定了你将会投入你的一生去服务你将要从军最终成为一名宇航员所以你们相遇了加贝哪里吸引你？
en:PM: I have a feeling we might see that picture next,Gabby.But you meet, you&#39;re already decidedthat you&#39;re going to dedicate your life to service.You&#39;re going into the militaryand eventually to become an astronaut.So you meet.What attracts you to Gabby?
时间： 6:05
zh-cn:马克：嗯，当我们相遇的时候，够奇怪的那是上一次我们在温哥华的时候了大约十年前。我们在温哥华相遇在机场里，我们俩都在前去中国的路上以我的背景，我会说我会称之为浪费公帑加贝会——加贝：寻找真相的任务。
en:MK: Well, when we met, oddly enough,it was the last time we were in Vancouver,about 10 years ago. We met in Vancouver,at the airport, on a trip that we were both takingto China,that I would actually, from my background,I would call it a boondoggle.Gabby would —GG: Fact-finding mission.
时间： 6:26
zh-cn:马克：她会称之为一个重要的寻找真相的任务她那时候是一个州议员我们相遇了，在机场里在飞往中国之前
en:MK: She would call it animportant fact-finding mission.She was a state senator at the time,and we met here, at the airport,before a trip to China.
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:帕特：你会形容这是闪电式的恋爱吗？
en:PM: Would you describe it as a whirlwind romance?
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:加贝：不，不，不（笑声）一个好朋友
en:GG: No, no, no.(Laughter)A good friend.
时间： 6:46
zh-cn:马克：是的，我们做了很久的朋友
en:MK: Yeah, we were friends for a long time.
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:加贝：是的 （笑声）
en:GG: Yes. (Laughter)
时间： 6:53
zh-cn:马克：然后她邀请我，大约一年以后她邀我去约会我们去哪了，加贝？
en:MK: And then she invited meon, about a year or so later,she invited me on a date.Where&#39;d we go, Gabby?
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:加贝：死囚区
en:GG: Death row.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:马克：是的。我们的第一次约会就在死囚区在亚利桑那州的佛罗伦萨州立监狱就在加贝州议员选区的外面他们正在为立法而努力必须处理关于犯罪、刑罚以及死刑的事情，就在亚利桑那州里所以她无法找到人陪她去那我就说，“好啊，我想去死囚区看看。”所以那就是我们的第一次约会从此我们就一直在一起加贝：是的
en:MK: Yes. Our first date was to death rowat the Florence state prison in Arizona,which was just outside Gabby&#39;s state senate district.They were working on some legislationthat had to do with crime and punishmentand capital punishment in the state of Arizona.So she couldn&#39;t get anybody else to go with her,and I&#39;m like, &quot;Of course I want to go to death row.&quot;So that was our first date.We&#39;ve been together ever since.GG: Yes.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:帕特：嗯，那可能就是促使加贝决定嫁给你的原因你毕竟愿意去死囚区
en:PM: Well, that might have contributed to the reasonthat Gabby decided to marry you.You were willing to go to death row, after all.
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:马克：我猜是这样的
en:MK: I guess.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:帕特：加贝，是什么事情使你想嫁给马克？
en:PM: Gabby, what did make you want to marry Mark?
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:加贝：嗯，好朋友，最好的朋友，最好的朋友
en:GG: Um, good friends. Best friends. Best friends.
时间： 7:54
zh-cn:马克：我想我们一直都有一段非常特别的关系我们一起走过了一些困难的日子而这些这会使我们的关系更牢固加贝：更牢固
en:MK: I thought we alwayshad a very special relationship.We&#39;ve gone through some tough timesand it&#39;s only made it stronger.GG: Stronger.
时间： 8:06
zh-cn:帕特：然而，你们结婚之后你们继续过着非常独立的生活实际上，你们甚至没有住在一起
en:PM: After you got married, however,you continued very independent lives.Actually, you didn&#39;t even live together.
时间： 8:14
zh-cn:马克：我们有着一段两地分居的婚姻在我们的例子里，就是在华盛顿、休斯顿和图桑有时候我们顺时针走有时候逆时针去不同的地方我们不是真正地生活在一起直到那个星期六的早上在加贝被枪击的一个小时里我坐上了去往图森的飞机而就是那一瞬间改变了所有的事情
en:MK: We had one of those commuter marriages.In our case, it was Washington, D.C., Houston,Tucson.Sometimes we&#39;d go clockwise,sometimes counterclockwise,to all those different places,and we didn&#39;t really live togetheruntil that Saturday morning.Within an hour of Gabby being shot,I was on an airplane to Tucson,and that was the momentwhere that had changed things.
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:帕特：而且，加贝，你当时正在竞选连任国会议员在成为州参议员在服务国会六年以后你最喜欢什么事情关于在国会里工作？
en:PM: And also, Gabby, you had run for Congressafter being a state senatorand served in Congress for six years.What did you like bestabout being in Congress?
时间： 8:51
zh-cn:加贝：快节奏，快节奏
en:GG: Fast pace. Fast pace.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:帕特：嗯，这就是你工作的方式加贝：是的，是的。快节奏
en:PM: Well it was the way you did it.GG: Yes, yes. Fast pace.
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:帕特：我不确定人们会完全这样形容国会（笑声）
en:PM: I&#39;m not sure people woulddescribe it entirely that way.(Laughter)
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:马克：是啊，你知道，立法通常是异常的慢节奏但是我必须承认，我的妻子还有很多我认识的国会成员都非常努力地工作我的意思是，加贝是工作狂从来都不休息或许一个月休息半天以及她只要是醒着都在工作她真的真的热衷于工作到今天仍旧是如此加贝：是的，是的
en:MK: Yeah, you know, legislation is oftenat a colossally slow pace,but my wife, and I have to admit,a lot of other members of Congress that I know,work incredibly hard.I mean, Gabby would run around like a crazy person,never take a day off,maybe a half a day off a month,and whenever she was awake she was working,and she really, really thrived on that,and still does today.GG: Yes. Yes.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:帕特：在她屋顶安装太阳能板我不得不说所以在那悲剧事件之后，马克你决定辞去你作为宇航员的工作即使你原本打算接受下一个太空任务每个人，包括加贝都劝说你回去你最后也接受了
en:PM: Installing solar panels on the top of her house,I have to say.So after the tragic incident, Mark,you decided to resignyour position as an astronaut,even though you were supposed to takethe next space mission.Everybody, including Gabby,talked you into going back,and you did end up taking.
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:马克：有一点。在加贝受伤后的那一天我打给我的老板，首席宇航员佩吉·惠特森博士，然后我说“佩吉，我知道我即将登陆太空在三个月内加贝昏迷了。我现在在图森你需要帮我找一个替补的人”所以我没有真正地辞去宇航员的职务但我放弃了我的工作，而他们找到了替补者几个月之后，可能大概两个月后我开始要回我的工作这代表着一些东西当你成为主要的给予关心的人，在观众里有一些人一定也经历过同样的事情这是一个很挑战的角色，但到了某种程度你必须搞清楚什么时候会把你的生活找回来在那时候，我不能问加贝她是否想我再去航天飞机飞行但我知道她是加贝：是的，是的，是的
en:MK: Kind of. The day after Gabby was injured,I called my boss, the chief astronaut,Dr. Peggy Whitson, and I said,&quot;Peggy, I know I&#39;m launching in spacein three months from now.Gabby&#39;s in a coma. I&#39;m in Tucson.You&#39;ve got to find a replacement for me.&quot;So I didn&#39;t actually resign from being an astronaut,but I gave up my job and they found a replacement.Months later, maybe about two months later,I started about getting my job back,which is something,when you become this primary caregiver person,which some people in the audience herehave certainly been in that position,it&#39;s a challenging role but at some pointyou&#39;ve got to figure out whenyou&#39;re going to get your life back,and at the time, I couldn&#39;t ask Gabbyif she wanted me to go fly in the space shuttle again.But I knew she was—GG: Yes. Yes. Yes.
时间：10:31
zh-cn:马克：她是我事业的最大的支持者而我知道这是正确的事情
en:MK: She was the biggest supporter of my career,and I knew it was the right thing to do.
时间：10:35
zh-cn:帕特：可是我试着想象，马克那是什么样的，离开去执行任务普遍认为是安全的，但从来没有人能保证在了解加贝是 —
en:PM: And yet I&#39;m trying to imagine, Mark,what that was like, going off onto a mission,one presumes safely, but it&#39;s never a guarantee,and knowing that Gabby is —
时间：10:47
zh-cn:马克：嗯，她不仅还在医院里在那次飞行任务的第三天不夸张地说我正在会合空间站你有两个每小时移动17,500英里的飞行器我是真的在驾驶它，望着窗外很多电脑加贝正在接受脑部手术那时真的是最后一个手术要换一片头盖骨那是他们在她受伤那天拿出来的用人工头盖骨代替，是的，就是她整边的头骨如果你们有机会第一次参观我们图森的家加贝通常会去冰柜拿出一个保鲜盒里面有真正的头骨 （笑声）
en:MK: Well not only was she still in the hospital,on the third day of that flight,literally while I wasrendezvousing with the space station,and you&#39;ve got two vehiclesmoving at 17,500 miles an hour,I&#39;m actually flying it, looking out the window,a bunch of computers,Gabby was in brain surgery,literally at that time having the final surgeryto replace the piece of skullthat they took out on the day she was injuredwith a prosthetic, yeah, whichis the whole side of her head.Now if any of you guys would ever cometo our house in Tucson for the first time,Gabby would usually go up to the freezerand pull out the piece of Tupperwarethat has the real skull. (Laughter)
时间：11:30
zh-cn:加贝：真头骨马克：有时候会吓到人
en:GG: The real skull.MK: Which freaks people out, sometimes.
时间：11:33
zh-cn:帕特：那是开胃菜还是甜品呢，马克？
en:PM: Is that for appetizer or dessert, Mark?
时间：11:36
zh-cn:马克：嗯，那只是让对话持续下去
en:MK: Well, it just gets the conversation going.
时间：11:41
zh-cn:帕特：但一定有很多谈话关于你做的一些事情，加贝，在马克的飞行任务之后你不得不又迈出勇气的一步因为国会又陷入僵局了你离开了康复中心设法让自己去华盛顿以便你能在国会里行走我很难不带感情地去谈这件事—并投下一票，那可能是决定性的一票
en:PM: But there was a lot of conversation aboutsomething you did, Gabby, after Mark&#39;s flight.You had to make another step of courage too,because here was Congress deadlocked again,and you got out of the rehabilitation center,got yourself to Washingtonso that you could walk on the floor of the House —I can barely talk about thiswithout getting emotional —and cast a vote which could have beenthe deciding vote.
时间：12:12
zh-cn:加贝：债务上限，债务上限
en:GG: The debt ceiling. The debt ceiling.
时间：12:15
zh-cn:马克：是啊，我们赢了那次的投票我猜大概是在加贝受伤的五个月之后她做出了这个大胆的决定要回去一个有争议的选择但是她想回去让她的声音再一次被倾听
en:MK: Yeah, we had that vote,I guess about five months after Gabby was injured,and she made this bold decision to go back.A very controversial vote,but she wanted to be thereto have her voice heard one more time.
时间：12:28
zh-cn:帕特：在那之后，辞职然后开始是一个漫长并且艰难啊的恢复过程每天的生活是什么样的？
en:PM: And after that, resignedand began what has been a very slowand challenging recovery.What&#39;s life like, day to day?
时间：12:39
zh-cn:马克: 这是加贝的服务犬纳尔逊
en:MK: Well, that&#39;s Gabby&#39;s service dog Nelson.
时间：12:42
zh-cn:加贝：纳尔逊
en:GG: Nelson.
时间：12:43
zh-cn:马克：我们家的新成员加贝：是的是的
en:MK: New member of our family.GG: Yes, yes.
时间：12:46
zh-cn:马克：我们是从一个
en:MK: And we got him from a—
时间：12:49
zh-cn:加贝：监狱，一个谋杀犯马克：我们与监狱有很多的联系经常有联系，似乎是 （大笑声）纳尔逊从一个监狱来，被一名来自马萨诸塞州的谋杀犯养大但是她跟这只狗很合得来他是一只很棒的服务犬
en:GG: Prison. Murder.MK: We have a lot of connectionswith prisons, apparently. (Laughter)Nelson came from a prison,raised by a murderer in Massachusetts.But she did a great job with this dog.He&#39;s a fabulous service dog.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:帕特： 那么加贝，你学到了什么从你过去几年的经验？
en:PM: So Gabby, what have you learnedfrom your experiences the past few years?
时间：13:13
zh-cn:马克：哦，你学到了什么？加贝：更深厚，更深厚
en:MK: Yeah, what have you learned?GG: Deeper. Deeper.
时间：13:19
zh-cn:帕特：你们的关系更深厚了必须是这样的。 你们现在无时无刻都在一起
en:PM: Your relationship is deeper.It has to be. You&#39;re together all the time now.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:马克：我想这是值得感恩的，对吧？
en:MK: I imagine being grateful, too, right?
时间：13:27
zh-cn:加贝：感恩的
en:GG: Grateful.
时间：13:28
zh-cn:帕特：这是一张家人还有朋友一起聚会的照片但我喜欢这些照片是因为他们显示了加贝还有马克现在的关系并且你一遍又一遍形容这种关系，加贝在很多层面上更深厚了，对吧？
en:PM: This is a picture of family and friends gathering,but I love these pictures because they showthe Gabby and Mark relationship now.And you describe it, Gabby, over and over,as deeper on so many levels. Yes?
时间：13:46
zh-cn:马克：我觉得当悲剧发生在一个家庭时，它可以使家人们团结起来我们在这看着航天飞机飞到图森上空奋进号航天飞机那艘我担任最后一次飞行任务指挥官的航天飞机它最后一次在一架飞机上空飞行是一架在去往洛杉矶路上的747飞机NASA有点受够了它飞在图森上面
en:MK: I think when something tragic happensin a family, it can pull people together.Here&#39;s us watching the space shuttlefly over Tucson,the Space Shuttle Endeavour,the one that I was the commander on its last flight,on its final flight on top of an airplaneon a 747 on its way to L.A.,NASA was kind enough to have it fly over Tucson.
时间：14:10
zh-cn:帕特：当然，你们俩经历了这些漫长而又艰难的恢复挑战然而，加贝，你是怎么保持你的乐观还有积极的展望？
en:PM: And of course, the two of yougo through these challengesof a slow and difficult recovery,and yet, Gabby, how do you maintainyour optimism and positive outlook?
时间：14:23
zh-cn:加贝：我想把世界变得更好（掌声）
en:GG: I want to make the world a better place.(Applause)
时间：14:34
zh-cn:帕特：并且你在做这个的时候尽管你的康复不得不作为你们两人的中心你们是那些曾经服务于你们的国家并且打算继续这样做怀着新的精神，新的目的加贝，你们现在有什么打算？
en:PM: And you&#39;re doing thateven though your recovery has to remainfront and center for both of you.You are people who have done serviceto your country and you are continuing to do thatwith a new initiative, a new purpose.And Gabby, what&#39;s on the agenda now?
时间：14:52
zh-cn:加贝：「美国责任拥有枪支行动」
en:GG: Americans for Responsible Solutions.
时间：14:56
zh-cn:马克：这是我们的政治行动委员会我们正试着让国会议员们从更严肃的角度看看这个国家的枪支暴力并且尝试着通过一些可行的法律
en:MK: That&#39;s our political action committee,where we are trying to get members of Congressto take a more serious look atgun violence in this country,and to try topass some reasonable legislation.
时间：15:10
zh-cn:帕特：是的 是的 （掌声）
en:GG: Yes. Yes. (Applause)
时间：15:18
zh-cn:马克：你知道，这件事对我们的影响是很私人的但是这不仅是只发生在加贝身上，这涉及了我们所有人这是那些在康乃迪克洲纽镇被谋杀的20个一年级学生还有幼儿园老师们看看我们在这之后的反应看看到现时为止发生了什么到目前为止，国家的反应就是基本上不做任何事我们正试图去改变这些
en:MK: You know, this affected us very personally,but it wasn&#39;t what happenedto Gabby that got us involved.It was really the 20 murdered first gradersand kindergartners in Newtown, Connecticut,and the response that we saw afterwardswhere — well, look what&#39;s happened so far.So far the national response has beenpretty much to do nothing.We&#39;re trying to change that.
时间：15:41
zh-cn:帕特： 这已经发生了11起群众枪击事件在纽镇事件之后一个学校在去年头两个月的一周中你们做了些什么不同于其他人的努力从而平衡枪支的拥有权和责任？
en:PM: There have been 11 mass shootingssince Newtown,a school a week in the first two months of last year.What are you doing that&#39;s differentthan other efforts to balancerights for gun ownership and responsibilities?
时间：15:53
zh-cn:马克：我们是枪支持有者，我们支持枪支权利与此同时，我们要竭尽所能地让枪支远离罪犯之手还有危险的精神病人这不是很难做到这个问题，像其他一些一样已经成为了非常极端以及政治上的问题我们正尝试着带来一些平衡到华盛顿的辩论中
en:MK: We&#39;re gun owners, we support gun rights.At the same time, we&#39;ve got to do everything we canto keep guns out of the hands of criminalsand the dangerously mentally ill.It&#39;s not too difficult to do that.This issue, like many others,has become very polarizing and political,and we&#39;re trying to bring some balanceto the debate in Washington.
时间：16:14
zh-cn:帕特：谢谢你们做出的这些努力对这位有勇气的女性并不感到意外还有充满冒险精神你就是这样一直挑战自己感觉天空才是极限我必须要分享这个你最新的冒险视频看看加贝吧
en:PM: Thank you both for that effort.And not surprisingly for this woman of courageand of a sense of adventure,you just keep challenging yourself,and the sky seems to be the limit.I have to share this videoof your most recent adventure.Take a look at Gabby.
时间：16:33
zh-cn:马克：这是几个月前
en:MK: This is a couple months ago.
时间：16:40
zh-cn:（视频）马克：你还好吗？你做的很好加贝：是的，这很棒。谢谢你。好东西，太漂亮了，噢，谢谢你山，很漂亮的山（掌声）
en:(Video) MK: You okay? You did great.GG: Yes, it&#39;s gorgeous. Thank you.Good stuff. Gorgeous. Oh, thank you.Mountains. Gorgeous mountains.(Applause)
时间：17:00
zh-cn:马克：让我这样说吧那天其中一个跟加贝一起跳伞的人是一名海豹突击队队员她在阿富汗遇见的那名突击队员在战斗中受伤了有过一段艰难的时光加贝拜访了他当他在贝塞斯达的时候并且经历了一段非常艰难的时期他开始变得好一点了几个月后，加贝被枪击中了头部然后他支持着她当加贝在休斯顿的医院里时所以他们有着非常非常好的关系
en:MK: Let me just sayone of the guys that Gabby jumped withthat day was a Navy SEALwho she met in Afghanistanwho was injured in combat,had a really rough time.Gabby visited himwhen he was at Bethesdaand went through a really tough period.He started doing better.Months later, Gabby was shot in the head,and then he supported herwhile she was in the hospital in Houston.So they have a very, very nice connection.
时间：17:27
zh-cn:加贝：是的
en:GG: Yes.
时间：17:28
zh-cn:帕特：多美好的时刻啊因为这是TED 的舞台加贝，我知道你很努力地想留下一些想法给这些观众
en:PM: What a wonderful moment.Because this is the TED stage,Gabby, I know you worked very hardto think of the ideas that you wanted to leavewith this audience.
时间：17:39
zh-cn:加贝：谢谢大家好感谢你们今天邀请我们来这里这是一个漫长，艰难的过程但是我正在康复我很努力很多的治疗—语言康复治疗物理治疗，还有瑜伽但是我的精神比以往更强大了我会继续奋斗把这个世界变得更好你们也可以参与到你们的社区活动之中做一个领导者，树立一个榜样怀抱热情，充满勇气竭尽所能。非常感谢你们
en:GG: Thank you.Hello, everyone.Thank you for inviting us here today.It&#39;s been a long, hard haul,but I&#39;m getting better.I&#39;m working hard,lots of therapy — speech therapy,physical therapy, and yoga too.But my spirit is strong as ever.I&#39;m still fighting to make the world a better place,and you can too.Get involved with your community.Be a leader. Set an example.Be passionate. Be courageous.Be your best. Thank you very much.
时间：18:29
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：18:32
zh-cn:马克：谢谢加贝：谢谢
en:MK: Thank you.GG: Thank you.
时间：18:36
zh-cn:（掌声）马克：谢谢各位加贝：再见 （掌声）
en:(Applause)MK: Thank you everybody.GG: Bye bye. (Applause)
