时间： 0:15
zh-cn:我有一个非常困难的任务.我是一个光谱学家.我需要向你们解释什么是天文学但不能用任何星云或星系之类的图片。因为我是从事光谱学的。我从不与图片打交道。但我会说服你光谱学这个学科其实可以改变这个世界.光谱学很可能解答如下问题，&quot;在地球之外有任何生命存在吗?&quot;人类是孤独的吗? SETI(搜寻地外文明)从事光谱学并不是很好玩.
en:I have a very difficult task.I&#39;m a spectroscopist.I have to talk about astronomy without showing youany single image of nebulae or galaxies, etc.because my job is spectroscopy.I never deal with images.But I&#39;ll try to convince youthat spectroscopy is actually something which canchange this world.Spectroscopy can probably answer the question,&quot;Is there anybody out there?&quot;Are we alone? SETI.It&#39;s not very fun to do spectroscopy.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:我有一个在保加利亚的同事,Neviana Markova, 花了近20年的时间来研究这些资料。并且她发表了42篇文章仅仅致力于这个题目。你能想像吗?没日没夜地思考、花20年时间去观察去研究同一颗恒星太不可思议了。但我们疯了。我们做这些事。(笑声)
en:One of my colleagues in Bulgaria,Nevena Markova, spent about 20 yearsstudying these profiles.And she published 42 articlesjust dedicated to the subject.Can you imagine? Day and night, thinking,observing, the same star for 20 yearsis incredible.But we are crazy. We do these things.(Laughter)
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:我没有那么疯狂.我花了大概八个月的时间去研究这些资料.我注意到一些小的对称性存在于一个行星的主恒星的资料里。我认为,可能这颗恒星存在着锂6(Lithium-6)这种物质,这表明了这颗恒星曾经吞没过一颗行星.因为很明显,这种不稳定的锂6同位素不可能存在于那种类太阳的恒星的大气层中.但这种同位素存在于行星或者小行星中.所以,如果吞没了行星或者大数量的小行星.就会有锂6同位素出现在这颗星的光谱里。所以我投入了八个多月的时间全部用于研究这颗星关于锂的数据.
en:And I&#39;m not that far.I spent about eight months working on these profiles.Because I&#39;ve noticeda very small symmetryin the profile of one of the planet host stars.And I thought, well maybe there is Lithium-6 in this star,which is an indication that this starhas swallowed a planet.Because apparently you can&#39;t have this fragile isotopeof Lithium-6 in the atmospheres of sun-like stars.But you have it in planets and asteroids.So if you engulf planet or large number of asteroids,you will have this Lithium-6 isotopein the spectrum of the star.So I invested more than eight monthsjust studying the profile of this star.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:事实上这件事是相当神奇.因为我接到一些记者的电话采访,&quot;你有没有亲眼看到这颗行星撞击到一颗恒星里?&quot;因为他们认为如果你有一个天文望远镜,你是一个天文学家,那么你要做的就是用天文望远镜去实际观察.所以你可能看到过行星撞击进入颗恒星.可我只能说, &quot;不,抱歉,其实我所看到的是这个&quot;(笑声)这确实令人难以置信. 因为没人真正理解.我打赌只有非常少的一部分人真正理解我现在讲的东西.因为这是一颗行星撞击进入恒星的迹象.太神奇了.
en:And actually it&#39;s amazing,because I got phone calls from many reporters asking,&quot;Have you actually seen the planet going into a star?&quot;Because they thought that if you are having a telescope,you are an astronomer so what you are doingis actually looking in a telescope.And you might have seen the planet going into a star.And I was saying, &quot;No, excuse me.What I see is this one.&quot;(Laughter)It&#39;s just incredible. Because nobody understood really.I bet that there were very few peoplewho really understood what I&#39;m talking about.Because this is the indication that the planet went into the star.It&#39;s amazing.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:光谱学的力量其实曾经在1973年被Pink Floyd (歌手)提及过.(笑声)因为他们曾经说过任何一种你喜欢的颜色都可以从光谱中获得.但你所需要的是时间和钱来制作你的光谱图像.这是高清解析度之王,这个星球上最精确的光谱仪,叫HARPS.实际上是用来探测外太阳系行星和恒星大气层中的声波.
en:The power of spectroscopywas actually realizedby Pink Floyd already in 1973.(Laughter)Because they actually said thatyou can get any color you likein a spectrum.And all you need is time and moneyto make your spectrograph.This is the number one high resolution,most precise spectrograph on this planet, called HARPS,which is actually used to detectextrasolar planets and sound wavesin the atmospheres of stars.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:我们如何得到光谱呢?我相信你们大部分人都从高中物理中了解过,基本上就是从一束白光折射分解成不同的颜色.如果你有一个热液体物质，将会产生我们所谓的连续谱。热气体会仅产生出发射谱线,并不连续。如果你将一些冷气体放在一个热源前面,你将会看到特定的图案我们称之为吸收谱线.实际上它用于鉴定化学元素在冷却的物质中,因为这种化学元素完全吸收掉这些频段.
en:How we get spectra?I&#39;m sure most of you know from school physicsthat it&#39;s basically splitting a white lightinto colors.And if you have a liquid hot mass,it will produce something which we call a continuous spectrum.A hot gas is producing emission lines only,no continuum.And if you place a cool gas in front of ahot source,you will see certain patternswhich we call absorption lines.Which is used actually to identify chemical elementsin a cool matter,which is absorbing exactly at those frequencies.
时间： 3:50
zh-cn:现在,我们可以研究光谱,我们实际上研究的是宇宙天体的视向速度。并且我们还可以研究化学成分和物理参数. 这些来自恒星以及星系和星云.恒星是一个最简单的对象.在内核我们有持续的热核反应创造着化学元素.并且我们有低温的气体.对我来说是低温,低温在我的术语里意味着三千,或者四五千度。我有些红外线天文学的同事们把所有零下200K 的温度叫低温.但你知道,任何事物都是相对的.所以对我来说5000度是相当的低温呐.(笑声)
en:Now, what we can do with the spectra?We can actually study line-of-sight velocitiesof cosmic objects.And we can also study chemical compositionand physical parameters of stars,galaxies, nebulae.A star is the most simple object.In the core, we have thermonuclear reactions going on,creating chemical elements.And we have a cool atmosphere.It&#39;s cool for me.Cool in my terms is three or four or five thousand degrees.My colleagues in infra-red astronomycall minus 200 Kelvin is cool for them.But you know, everything is relative.So for me 5,000 degrees is pretty cool.(Laughter)
时间： 4:34
zh-cn:这是太阳的光谱.两万四千条光谱线,大约有15%的线条还没有被识别出来.这是惊人的. 那么我们处在21世纪，我们依然没有完全的理解太阳的光谱.有些时候我们不得不跟一些细小的,微弱的光谱线条打交道.来测量大气的化学元素构成.举个例子,你看这些金元素的光谱线是太阳光谱中仅有的光谱线我们用这个微弱的特征来测量太阳大气中金元素的构成.
en:This is the spectrum of the Sun —24,000 spectral lines,and about 15 percent of these lines is not yet identified.It is amazing. So we are in the 21st century,and we still cannot properly understandthe spectrum of the sun.Sometimes we have to deal withjust one tiny, weak spectral lineto measure the composition of that chemical element in the atmosphere.For instance, you see the spectral line of the goldis the only spectral line in the spectrum of the Sun.And we use this weak featureto measure the compositionof gold in the atmosphere of the Sun.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:现在,这项工作取得了很大的进展.我们已经论述了一个相似的,也是非常微弱的特征,是锇元素.这种重元素产生于超新星的热核爆炸.实际上这是唯一能产生锇元素的地方.将锇元素的构成与这颗行星所在的主恒星相比,我们试图理解那里为什么存在如此多的这种元素.我们甚至想过,也许超新星爆炸触发了行星和恒星的形成.这可以算一个迹象.
en:And now this is a work in progress.We have been dealing with a similarly very weak feature,which belongs to osmium.It&#39;s a heavy element produced in thermonuclearexplosions of supernovae.It&#39;s the only place where you can produce, actually, osmium.Just comparing the composition of osmiumin one of the planet host stars,we want to understand why there is so muchof this element.Perhaps we even think that maybesupernova explosions trigger formations of planets and stars.It can be an indication.
时间： 5:51
zh-cn:有天伯克利(Berkeley)的一个同事,Gibor Basri,发给我一个电子邮件一个非常有趣的光谱,问我,&quot;看看这是什么吗?&quot;接下来的两周,我就睡不着觉了.我看到了大量的氧和其它元素排列在这颗恒星的光谱中.我知道从银河系中没有这样的光谱.难以置信! 从这个清晰的证据只能得出这个系统中曾经发生过一次超新星爆炸污染了这颗恒星的大气层后来,一个黑洞在这个两元体系中形成了.现在仍然在那里,集中了大约五个太阳质量.这被认为是第一个证明黑洞的形成是来自超新星热核爆炸.
en:The other day, my colleague from Berkeley,Gibor Basri, emailed mea very interesting spectrum,asking me, &quot;Can you have a look at this?&quot;And I couldn&#39;t sleep, next two weeks,when I saw the huge amount of oxygenand other elements in the spectrum of the stars.I knew that there is nothing like that observed in the galaxy.It was incredible. The only conclusion we could make from thisis clear evidence that there was a supernova explosionin this system, which polluted the atmosphereof this star.And later a black hole was formedin a binary system,which is still there with a mass of aboutfive solar masses.This was considered as first evidence that actually black holescome from supernovae explosions.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:我的同事们,将不同星系的化学元素的构成进行了对比便在银河系中发现了许多陌生恒星。这太神奇了,你能了解这么多仅仅靠分析这些星球的化学元素的构成.他们实际上说过,你看到这些光谱中的恒星之一来自于另外一个星系。不同星际之间存在着相互作用. 我们了解这一点.有时他们也会捕获其它恒星.
en:My colleagues, comparing composition of chemical elementsin different galactic stars,actually discovered alien stars in our galaxy.It&#39;s amazing that you can go so farsimply studying the chemical composition of stars.They actually said that one of the stars you see in the spectrais an alien. It comes from a different galaxy.There is interaction of galaxies. We know this.And sometimes they just capture stars.
时间： 7:08
zh-cn:你曾经听说过太阳耀斑.我们曾非常惊讶的发现一个超级耀斑,这个耀斑的能量比我们看到太阳的耀斑要强烈上百万倍.在银河系中有一个叫FH Leo的双星体系,我们发现过一次超级耀斑.后来我们去研究它的光谱去理解这些对象之间有没有任何诡异的联系.然后我们发现,所有事情都很正常.这些恒星像太阳一样普通. 年龄, 所有东西都是正常的.所以这是一个谜.我们仍然未解的一个谜, 超级耀斑.并且还有六到七个相同的案例在文献中记载着.
en:You&#39;ve heard about solar flares.We were very surprised to discovera super flare,a flare which is thousands of millions of timesmore powerful than those we see in the Sun.In one of the binary stars in our galaxycalled FH Leo,we discovered the super flare.And later we went to study the spectral starsto see is there anything strange with these objects.And we found that everything is normal.These stars are normal like the Sun. Age, everything was normal.So this is a mystery.It&#39;s one of the mysteries we still have, super flares.And there are six or seven similar casesreported in the literature.
时间： 7:50
zh-cn:现在, 开始讲这个前我们需要去理解宇宙化学的演变.这超级复杂. 我当然不并是真的要你去理解表上的这些东西.(笑声)但这是为了告诉你,要多复杂的一个过程才能产生出这些化学元素.你有两种方法—大质量恒星和低质量恒星 —产生并回收宇宙中的物质和化学元素.并且已经做了140亿年,我们用这张图做结尾.这是一个很重要的图片,展示出丰富的化学元素存在于类太阳的恒星中和星际介质中.
en:Now to go ahead with this,we really need to understand chemical evolution of the universe.It&#39;s very complicated. I don&#39;t really want you totry to understand what is here.(Laughter)But it&#39;s to show you how complicated is the whole storyof the production of chemical elements.You have two channels —the massive stars and low-mass stars —producing and recycling matter and chemical elements in the universe.And doing this for 14 billion years,we end up with this picture,which is a very important graph,showing relative abundances of chemical elementsin sun-like starsand in the interstellar medium.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:这就意味着, 你不可能找到一个物体里面的硫元素比硅元素的10倍还多,钙比氧元素的5倍还多. 这就是不可能的.如果你真找到了,我会说这跟搜寻地外文明(SETI)有关.但自然产生的,你找不到.多普勒效应是非常重要的来自于基础物理.这是关于移动源的频率的变化.这是关于移动源的频率的变化.多普勒效曾用于发现太阳系外行星.
en:So which means that it&#39;s really impossibleto find an object where you find about 10 times more sulfur than silicon,five times more calcium than oxygen. It&#39;s just impossible.And if you find one, I will say thatthis is something related to SETI,because naturally you can&#39;t do it.Doppler Effect is something very importantfrom fundamental physics.And this is related to the change of the frequencyof a moving source.The Doppler Effect is used to discover extrasolar planets.
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:我们需要的精确数据可以帮我们发现类木星的行星围绕着类太阳的恒星即是以每秒钟28.4米的速度公转.并且我们需要每秒9厘米的速度去探测一个类地球的行星.未来的光谱学可以完成这种任务.事实上, 我自己参加了这个团队这个团队正在开发一种规则，高解析度,下一代的光谱分析机42米长的E-ELT望远镜.这个仪器将用于探测围绕类太阳恒星的类地行星.这个很棒的工具叫天文地震仪可以用来探测来自于恒星的大气层的声波.
en:The precision which we needto discover a Jupiter-like planetaround a sun-like staris something like 28.4 meters per second.And we need nine centimeters per secondto detect an Earth-like planet.This can be done with the future spectrographs.I, myself, I&#39;m actually involved in the teamwhich is developing a CODEX,high resolution, future generation spectrographfor the 42 meter E-ELT telescope.And this is going to be an instrumentto detect Earth-like planetsaround sun-like stars.It is an amazing tool called astroseismologywhere we can detect sound wavesin the atmospheres of stars.
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:这是半人马座阿尔法星的声音.我们可以探测到来自于类太阳恒星的大气层的声波.这些有频率的声波在一个固定的声域,这种声音实际上没人听的懂.回归到我们最重要的问题,&quot;在地球之外有任何生命存在吗?&quot;这其实与行星的构造运动和火山运动密切相关.生命和放射性原子核之间的联系很简单直观.没有构造活动、火山活动就没有生命.并且我们知道地热能量是铀,钍和钾元素进行衰减产生的.
en:This is the sound of an Alpha Cen.We can detect sound wavesin the atmospheres of sun-like stars.Those waves have frequenciesin infrasound domain, the sound actually nobody knows, domain.Coming back to the most important question,&quot;Is there anybody out there?&quot;This is closely relatedto tectonic and volcanic activity of planets.Connection between lifeand radioactive nucleiis straightforward.No life without tectonic activity,without volcanic activity.And we know very well that geothermal energyis mostly produced by decay of uranium, thorium, and potassium.
时间：10:30
zh-cn:怎么去测量,如果有某些行星这些元素含量非常低,这些行星基本上是构造性死亡,不可能有生命存在.如果那里有太多的铀,钍或者钾元素存在,大概,同样,那里也不会有生命存在.因为你可以想像所有东西都沸腾吗?那是因为有太多能量在行星上.现在我们可以通过从其它恒星和太阳系外行星测量各种元素或钍元素.这些规则是一样的. 很小的一个特点。
en:How to measure, if we have planetswhere the amount of those elements is small,so those planets are tectonically dead,there cannot be life.If there is too much uranium or potassium or thorium,probably, again, there would be no life.Because can you imagine everything boiling?It&#39;s too much energy on a planet.Now, we have been measuring abundanceof thorium in one of the stars with extrasolar planets.It&#39;s exactly the same game. A very tiny feature.
时间：11:03
zh-cn:我们实际上正在衡量这些资料.并且在探测钍.这非常难. 实在太难了.但这不得不做,首先你得说服你自己.然后你必须去说服你的同事.再然后你还得去说服整个世界你探测到一些类太阳主星的大气层中存在着某些东西但这颗星离我们大概距离320光年(100秒差距).这太难了.但如果你想了解外太阳系有没有生命,你就必须做这些工作.因为你必须知道有多少放射性元素存在于那些系统中.
en:We are actually trying to measure this profileand to detect thorium.It&#39;s very tough. It&#39;s very tough.And you have to, first you have to convince yourself.Then you have to convince your colleagues.And then you have to convince the whole worldthat you have actually detected something like thisin the atmosphere of an extrasolar planethost star somewhere in 100 parsec away from here.It&#39;s really difficult.But if you want to know about a life on extrasolar planets,you have to do this job.Because you have to know how much of radioactive element you havein those systems.
时间：11:38
zh-cn:发现外星生命的一个方法就是调节你的射电望远镜并收听信号.如果你接收到一些有趣的东西,其实那是搜寻地外文明组织(SETI)去做的,他们一直做了很多年了.我认为最有希望的方法就是用生物标志物.你可以看一下地球的光谱,地球光线分析频谱.你能看到一个非常明确的信号.这个倾斜的地方我们称之为红边(Red Edge),是植被区域的探测.这太神奇了,我们能从光谱中检测出植物.现在来想像一下探测其他行星.
en:The one way to discover about aliensis to tune your radio telescope and listen to the signals.If you receive something interesting,well that&#39;s what SETI does actually,what SETI has been doing for many years.I think the most promising wayis to go for biomarkers.You can see the spectrum of the Earth, this Earthshine spectrum,and that is a very clear signal.The slope which is coming, which we call a Red Edge,is a detection of vegetated area.It&#39;s amazing that we can detect vegetationfrom a spectrum.Now imagine doing this testfor other planets.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:最近,就在最近,我是说过去的七八个月,水,甲烷,二氧化碳已经在外太星系行星的光谱中被发现.这太棒了,这就是光谱的力量.你可以去探测去研究行星的化学构成,既使离太阳系很远很远的地方.我们还要检测氧气或者臭氧的含量来确定那里有所有必需条件有生命存在.
en:Now very recently, very recently,I&#39;m talking about last six, seven, eight months,water, methane, carbon dioxidehave been detected in the spectrumof a planet outside the solar system.It&#39;s amazing. So this is the power of spectroscopy.You can actually go and detectand study a chemical composition of planetsfar, far, far from solar system.We have to detect oxygen or ozoneto make sure that we have all necessary conditionsto have life.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:宇宙的奇迹与搜寻地外文明(SETI)紧密相关.现在,想像有一个天体,神奇的天体,或一些我们无法解释的天体我们只是站起来说,&quot;好吧,我们放弃,物理学根本无法解释.&quot;所以这就是你可以永远想着SETI说,&quot;好吧,肯定有某些人在用某种方法做这件事.&quot;
en:Cosmic miracles are somethingwhich can be related to SETI.Now imagine an object, amazing object,or something which we cannot explainwhen we just stand up and say,&quot;Look, we give up. Physics doesn&#39;t work.&quot;So it&#39;s something which you can always refer to SETI and say,&quot;Well, somebody must be doing this, somehow.&quot;
时间：13:20
zh-cn:对于已知的物理学其实已经被一个学者指出来了是Frank Drake,很多年以前.他就这么认为如果你在一个主恒星系统中的行星的光谱中,如果看到陌生的化学元素,这可能是一个地外文明的发出的信号并且他们想要这个信号在那里存在.他们实际上想把他们的存在的信号存储在光谱条纹里,用不同的方式表现在恒星的光谱中.
en:And with the known physics etc,it&#39;s something actually which has been pointed outby Frank Drake,many years ago, and Shklovsky.If you see, in the spectrum of a planet host star,if you see strange chemical elements,it can be a signal from a civilizationwhich is there and they want to signal about it.They want to actually signal their presencethrough these spectral lines,in the spectrum of a star, in different ways.
时间：13:50
zh-cn:他们可以用不同的方式去做这件事.举个例子, 例如锝元素是一个放射性元素衰减周期大概是420万年.如果你突然发现有锝元素存在于一个类太阳恒星中,你可以肯定是有人将这种元素放进了这个大气层。因为在自然界中不可能发生.现在我们正在查看光谱资料,是关于300颗外太星系带行星的恒星.我们从2000年就开始这项工作这是一项很复杂的工程.一直以为我们全力以赴.并且我们已经发现了一些有趣的例子,案例以及我们无法完全解释的东西.我希望在不久的将来我们可以确定这些东西.
en:There can be different ways doing this.One is, for instance, technetiumis a radioactive elementwith a decay time of 4.2 million years.If you suddenly observe technetiumin a sun-like star,you can be sure that somebody has put thiselement in the atmosphere,because in a natural way it is impossible to do this.Now we are reviewing the spectra of about300 stars with extrasolar planets.And we are doing this job since 2000and it&#39;s a very heavy project.We have been working very hard.And we have some interesting cases,candidates, so on, things which we can&#39;t really explain.And I hope in the near futurewe can confirm this.
时间：14:40
zh-cn:现在回到主要问题,&quot;人类是孤独的吗?&quot;我认为答案不会来自不明飞行物(UFO).也不是来自无线电信号.我认为答案将会从这些光谱中得到.这是一个类地行星的光谱有大量的氮氧化物是生命存在的明显的信号,以及氧气和臭氧.如果有这么一天,我想这一天将会是从现在开始的15年之内,或者20年之内.如果我们发现有这样的光谱存在,可以肯定,那颗行星上存在生命.未来大约5年的时间我们将发现一些类地行星环绕着类太阳恒星,它们的距离相当于地球与太阳的距离.大概花费五年的时间.然后我们需要另外的10到15年时间通过空间工程来获得类地行星的光谱,如我刚展示给你的那张一样.如果我们看到有大量的氮氧化物和氧气存在,我认为我们就完美的找到了外星生命(E.T.)非常感谢.(掌声)
en:So the main question: &quot;Are we alone?&quot;I think it will not come from UFOs.It will not come from radio signals.I think it will come from a spectrum like this.It is the spectrum of a planet like Earth,showing a presence of nitrogen dioxide,as a clear signal of life,and oxygen and ozone.If, one day, and I think it will bewithin 15 years from now, or 20 years.If we discover a spectrum like thiswe can be sure that there is life on that planet.In about five years we will discoverplanets like Earth, around sun-like stars,the same distance as the Earth from the Sun.It will take about five years.And then we will need another 10, 15 yearswith space projectsto get the spectra of Earth-like planets like the one I showed you.And if we see the nitrogen dioxideand oxygen,I think we have the perfect E.T.Thank you very much.(Applause)
