时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是一名治疗传染性疾病的医生。学业结束以后，我从旧金山去了索马里。当时旧金山综合医院传染科主任送给我的离别致辞是”加里，这是你一生中最错误的决定。“
en:I&#39;m a physician trained in infectious diseases,and following my training,I moved to Somaliafrom San Francisco.And my goodbye greetingfrom the chief of infectious diseasesat San Francisco General was,&quot;Gary, this is the biggest mistake you&#39;ll ever make.&quot;
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:我在难民营落脚，那里有40个难民营收容了100万难民。却只有我们6个医生。流行病随处可见。我的职责主要是针对肺结核和令人震惊的流行性霍乱。我负责阻止肺结核和霍乱的大幅扩散。为了让工作得以顺利进行，我们数量有限的医护人员不得不从难民中招人来特训成医护人员。在索马里工作了三年以后，我被世界卫生组织选中从事防治艾滋病流行的工作。我的主要工作是在乌干达。我也在卢旺达、布隆迪、扎伊尔、刚果、坦桑尼亚、马拉维和其他几个国家工作过。我最后一个任务是负责一个叫干预发展的机构。这个机构主要负责干预治疗的设计工作。
en:But I landed in a refugee situationthat had a million refugees in 40 camps,and there were six of us doctors.There were many epidemics there.My responsibilities were largely related totuberculosis,and then we got struck by an epidemic of cholera.So it was the spread of tuberculosisand the spread of cholerathat I was responsible for inhibiting.And in order to do this work, we, of course,because of the limitation in health workers,had to recruit refugees to be a specializednew category of health worker.Following three years of work in Somalia,I got picked up by the World Health Organization,and got assigned to the epidemics of AIDS.My primary responsibility was Uganda,but also I worked in Rwanda and Burundiand Zaire, now Congo,Tanzania, Malawi, and several other countries.And my last assignment there was to run a unitcalled intervention development,which was responsible for designing interventions.
时间： 1:44
zh-cn:10年的海外工作令我身心疲惫。我几乎身无分文。常年的四处奔波，令我倍感孤独无助。我想回家歇歇。我看过太多的死亡，尤其是流行病造成的死亡。流行病死亡给人的感受是不一样的，它令人触目惊心。我听多了沙漠里女人的恸哭和哀吟。我很想回家歇歇也许重新开始。
en:After 10 years of working overseas,I was exhausted.I really had very little left.I had been traveling to one country after another.I was emotionally feeling very isolated.I wanted to come home.I&#39;d seen a lot of death,in particular epidemic death,and epidemic death has a different feel to it.It&#39;s full of panic and fear,and I&#39;d heard the women wailing and cryingin the desert.And I wanted to come home and take a breakand maybe start over.
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:在美国，我没发现任何流行病的问题。实际上，我没觉得美国有任何问题。真的。我去看望我的一些朋友时我看到他们有水水直接在家里就可以喝到。你们中多少人家里是这种情况？（笑声）有些朋友，其实是很多朋友，可以在家里的不同房间直接喝到水。我还发现他们在家里安装了小巧的调温装置，可以一度一度地或者两度两度地调解家里的室内温度。我家现在也是这样。
en:I was not aware of any epidemic problemsin America.In fact, I wasn&#39;t aware of any problems in America.In fact — seriously.And in fact I would visit friends of mine,and I noticed that they had waterthat came right into their homes.How many of you have such a situation?(Laughter)And some of them, many of them actually,had water that came into more than one room.And I noticed that they would movethis little thermoregulatory deviceto change the temperature in their homeby one degree or two degrees.And now I do that.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:所以我不知道我该做什么好。我的一个朋友告诉关于青少年之间的枪击事件。我就想你该做什么来阻止这样的事件？你在美国该做什么来阻止这样的事件？大家都知道主要有两种方案或者说办法。
en:And I really didn&#39;t know what I would do,but friends of mine began telling meabout children shooting other children with guns.And I asked the question,what are you doing about it?What are you in America doing about it?And there were two essential explanationsor ideas that were prevalent.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:一个是惩罚。我以前就听说过的方法。我们以前研究行为学的知道惩罚是经常被探讨的方法。但它也是个被高估的方法。它不是行为的主要驱动力，也不是行为改变的主要驱动力。而且，它让我意识到过去的流行病就曾经被完全曲解。当时的科学没有普及到瘟疫、斑疹伤寒和麻风病（疫区）。所以当时大家普遍认为疫区的人差、环境差、空气差。寡妇们被拖到护城河。（拖进）地牢甚至是解决（流行病）的方法之一。
en:And one was punishment.And this I had heard about before.We who had worked in behaviorknew that punishment was something that was discussedbut also that it was highly overvalued.It was not a main driver of behavior,nor was it a main driver of behavior change.And besides that, it reminded meof ancient epidemicsthat were previously completely misunderstoodbecause the science hadn&#39;t been there before,epidemics of plagueor typhus or leprosy,where the prevalent ideas were that there werebad people or bad humors or bad air,and widows were dragged around the moat,and dungeons were part of the solution.
时间： 4:11
zh-cn:另一种方案，或者说，解决方法是请改善所有的设施：学校、公共场所、私人住处、各个家庭，以及所有的东西。我也同样知道这个方法。我把这叫做“凡事”理论。或者说EOE:世上万物。但是我们也认识到在治疗流行病的过程中有时候你并不需要改变所有的东西。
en:The other explanation or, in a way,the solution suggested,is please fix all of these things:the schools, the community, the homes, the families,everything.And I&#39;d heard this before as well.I&#39;d called this the &quot;everything&quot; theory,or EOE: Everything On Earth.But we&#39;d also realizedin treating other processes and problemsthat sometimes you don&#39;t need to treat everything.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:所以我的感觉是人们的认识上有一个鸿沟。暴力问题（的解决）陷入僵局。这历来都是其他重大问题的特点。腹泻病（的治疗）曾陷入僵局。疟疾（的治疗）也曾陷入僵局。通常情况下，一个治疗方案必需进行反思。不是说我知道应该怎么做，我是觉得我们需要和一种全新类别的工作者一起来解决这个问题。这样的新方案应该可以改变人们的行为，这样的新方案应该用公共教育的方式来实行。
en:And so the sense that I hadwas there was a giant gap here.The problem of violence was stuck,and this has historically been the casein many other issues.Diarrheal diseases had been stuck.Malaria had been stuck.Frequently, a strategy has to be rethought.It&#39;s not as if I had any idea what it would look like,but there was a sense that we would have to dosomething with new categories of workersand something having to do with behavior changeand something having to do with public education.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:我开始提出问题，研究我以前探讨过的一些常见指标。比如说，分布图是什么样的？图表是什么样的？数据又是什么样的？那么在美国大部分的城市，暴力事件的分布图就象这个。是丛集分布的。这让我意识到我们以前见过的流行传染病就是丛集分布的。比如说霍乱。我们观察曲线图发现曲线图里有这样的典型曲线。一个波形叠着一个波形的分布。因为所有的流行病都合并着其他流行病而生。而暴力事件的曲线图和流行病的曲线图也很相似。然后我们就问了，怎样预警暴力案件呢？结果我们发现对一个暴力事件的最好预警就是上一次的暴力事件。这就跟流感疫情相似，就象某人把流感，或者感冒传给别人，最大的罹患因素就是结核病的接触史。
en:But I began to ask questionsand search out the usual thingsthat I had been exploring before,like, what do the maps look like?What do the graphs look like?What does the data look like?And the maps of violencein most U.S. citieslooked like this.There was clustering.This reminded me of clustering that we&#39;d seen alsoin infectious epidemics,for example cholera.And then we looked at the maps,and the maps showed this typical waveupon wave upon wave,because all epidemicsare combinations of many epidemics.And it also looked like infectious epidemics.And then we asked the question,well what really predicts a case of violence?And it turns out that the greatest predictorof a case of violence is a preceding case of violence.Which also sounds like, if there is a case of flu,someone gave someone a case of flu, or a cold,or the greatest risk factor of tuberculosisis having been exposed to tuberculosis.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:我们发现暴力事件，在某种程度上，很象传染病的爆发。其实，我们在日常生活中或者媒体的报道中都可以了解到争吵中的暴力会蔓延成帮派斗争，内战，甚至蔓延成为种族屠杀。
en:And so we see that violence is, in a way,behaving like a contagious disease.We&#39;re aware of this anywayeven in our common experiencesor our newspaper storiesof the spread of violence from fightsor in gang wars or in civil warsor even in genocides.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:有个好消息，就是，我们知道治疗传染病的方式。只要做好三件事就可以阻止传染病的发生。第一点就是切断传播途径。为了切断传播途径，我们需要找到第一个案例。就是说，如果是结核病，你必须要找到谁有活动性结核病菌，谁会把结核病传染给别人。对吧？我们有专业人员来做这个工作。对这样特定的问题，我们设计出新类别的工作者。就象（寻找）非典（传染源）的工作者，（寻找）禽流感（传染源）的工作者，去找到首例患病者。在这个（暴力事件的）案例里，起因是有人因为别人偷看了他的女朋友或者别人欠了他的钱而动怒。你可以找到一些人，训练他们成为特殊类型的工作者。
en:And so there&#39;s good news about this, though,because there&#39;s a way to reverse epidemics,and there&#39;s really only three things that are doneto reverse epidemics,and the first of it is interrupting transmission.In order to interrupt transmission,you need to detect and find first cases.In other words, for T.B. you have to find somebodywho has active T.B. who is infecting other people.Make sense?And there&#39;s special workers for doing that.For this particular problem,we designed a new category of workerwho, like a SARS workeror someone looking for bird flu,might find first cases.In this case, it&#39;s someone who&#39;s very angrybecause someone looked at his girlfriendor owes him money,and you can find workers and train theminto these specialized categories.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:第二点呢，当然就是防止扩散。就是说，要找到谁有可能被牵涉进去。虽然他可能不会很快被牵涉，就像在结核病传染的小型案例里一样。哪怕那个人不过是到那个地区转了一圈但是在一个圈子里（活动）。那么这些人就需要，以某种方式，被好好管理。就象处理某些特殊疾病的过程一样。
en:And the second thing to do, of course,is to prevent further spread,that means to find who else has been exposed,but may not be spreading so much right nowlike someone with a smaller case of T.B.,or someone who is just hanging out in the neighborhoods,but in the same group,and then they need to be, in a way,managed as well,particular to the specific disease process.
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:那么第三点就是，恢复到正常。就是说整个社区活动的重组和公共教育。然后你可以做到所谓的“群体免疫”。这几个因素的结合使我们当初成功地阻止了艾滋病在乌干达的扩散。
en:And then the third part, the shifting the norms,and that means a whole bunch of community activities,remodeling, public education,and then you&#39;ve got what you might callgroup immunity.And that combination of factorsis how the AIDS epidemic in Ugandawas very successfully reversed.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:在2000年我们决定尝试把这些因素结合起来。首先我们采用了一些新类型的工作者，作为第一批暴力阻止者。然后我们把（我上面提到的）三个因素全部运用到某个社区，美国国内的某个治安差的地区。暴力阻止者是从（动怒者）同一个圈子里选出来的，有信誉、值得信任、能接近（动怒者），就象在索马里的那些（在难民营受训的）医护工作者一样。只不过他们为不同的目的而工作。他们受训学习如何劝说别人，让（动怒者）息怒，和他们一起消磨时间，转变他的态度。还有其他类别的员工，外展员工，是在某种程度上让动怒者接受6到24个月的心理辅导。就象结核病的治疗，只不过这次是行为上的改变。然后呢，一些社区活动就会恢复正常。
en:And so what we decided to do in the year 2000is kind of put this together in a wayby hiring in new categories of workers,the first being violence interruptors.And then we would put all of this into placein one neighborhoodin what was the worst police districtin the United States at the time.So violence interruptors hired from the same group,credibility, trust, access,just like the health workers in Somalia,but designed for a different category,and trained in persuasion,cooling people down, buying time, reframing.And then another category of worker,the outreach workers, to keep peoplein a way on therapy for six to 24 months.Just like T.B., but the object is behavior change.And then a bunch of community activitiesfor changing norms.
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:我们首次实验结果显示在芝加哥西加费尔德地区，枪击案和枪杀案减少了67％。
en:Now our first experiment of thisresulted in a 67-percent dropin shootings and killingsin the West Garfield neighborhood of Chicago.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:这对一个社区来说，是一件非常好的事。刚开始坚持了50天，或60天，然后是90天，在接下来的90天里，那里仅发生了一件不幸的枪击事件。那些社区里的妈妈们开始在下午一起出来散步，他们开始利用他们以前不曾利用的公园。太阳出来了。每个人都很高兴。
en:And this was a beautiful thingfor the neighborhood itself,first 50 or 60 days, then 90 days,and then there was unfortunately another shootingin another 90 days,and the moms were hanging out in the afternoon.They were using parks they weren&#39;t using before.The sun was out. Everybody was happy.
时间： 9:19
zh-cn:但当然了，有些捐款人说，“等等，你再做一次。”所以呢，我们幸运地拿到了资金来重复这个实验。在其他四个实验社区中的一个社区枪杀案和凶杀案减少了45％。从那时开始，这个实验已经被重复了20次。我们的实验被独立评估过。这个评估是由司法部门和疾病预防控制中心支持，由约翰霍普金斯大学来实行的。评估结果显示我们的实验把枪击案和杀人案减少到了30－50％ 和40－60％。这是采用（我上面提到的）新方法做到的。实际上，我们的工作目前为止已经通过了三次独立评估。
en:But of course, the funders said, &quot;Wait a second,do it again.&quot;And so we had to then, fortunately,get the funds to repeat this experience,and this is one of the next four neighborhoodsthat had a 45-percent drop in shootings and killings.And since that time, this has been replicated20 times.There have been independent evaluationssupported by the Justice Departmentand by the CDC and performed by Johns Hopkinsthat have shown 30-to-50-percent and 40-to-70-percentreductions in shootings and killingsusing this new method.In fact, there have been three independentevaluations of this now.
时间： 9:57
zh-cn:也因此受到了很多人的瞩目。其中包括《纽约时报》周日杂志的封面特别推荐。2009年的《经济学家》杂志报道说，我们的工作是“卓越的尝试“。甚至有一部电影是围绕我们的工作来拍摄的。［中断］
en:Now we&#39;ve gotten a lot of attention as a result of this,including being featured onThe New York Times&#39; Sunday magazine cover story.The Economist in 2009said this is &quot;the approach that will come to prominence.&quot;And even a movie was made around our work.[The Interrupters]
时间：10:14
zh-cn:但是，先不要急，因为很多人还不同意我们的做法。我们受到了很多的批评，很多的反对意见，很多的敌对态度。（他们问），（你说这是）健康问题，是什么意思？（你说这是）流行病，是什么意思？（你说)他们不是很坏的人，是什么意思？社会上已经有了管理坏人的方案。你说的雇用有（不良）背景的人，是什么意思？我的商业界朋友说，”格里，你的工作受到了严厉地批评，你一定是做了正确的事！“
en:However, not so fast,because a lot of people did not agreewith this way of going about it.We got a lot of criticism,a lot of opposition,and a lot of opponents.In other words, what do you mean, health problem?What do you mean, epidemic?What do you mean, no bad guys?And there&#39;s whole industries designedfor managing bad people.What do you mean, hiring peoplewho have backgrounds?My business friends said,&quot;Gary, you&#39;re being criticized tremendously.You must be doing something right.&quot;
时间：10:54
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:56
zh-cn:我的音乐家朋友还加了一个词儿”伙计“。
en:My musician friends added the word &quot;dude.&quot;
时间：10:59
zh-cn:事实上，暴力问题确实还是存在。我们的工作受到了另一种严厉批评因为我们的工作无法处理所有的其他问题。目前为止，我们能控制疟疾，减少艾滋病和腹泻的发病，在那些贫困的没有经济复苏的地区。
en:So anyway, additionally,there was still this problem,and we were getting highly criticized as wellfor not dealing with all of these other problems.Yet we were able to manage malariaand reduce HIV and reduce diarrheal diseasesin places with awful economieswithout healing the economy.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:所以实际上，尽管有一些反对意见，很明显大家都行动起来了。美国的很多大城市，包括纽约和巴的摩尔和堪萨斯城。他们的卫生部门在开展着类似的工作。芝加哥和新奥尔良的卫生部门在这样的工作中发挥着巨大的作用。执法部门比几年前更加接受我们的工作。创伤中心和医院也在不断跟进。美国市长联席会议已经核准不仅要开展类似的工作而且要作为特别模式来做。也有一些行动更加迅速的国际组织。在波多黎各的第一个试点区域，犯罪率减少了55％。在洪都拉斯切断（犯罪）工作正在着手进行。在肯亚最近的选举活动中，我们的工作模式已经被列入计划。伊拉克已经完成了500次切断犯罪的工作。
en:So what&#39;s actually happened is,although there is still some opposition,the movement is clearly growing.Many of the major cities in the U.S.,including New York City and Baltimoreand Kansas City,their health departments are running this now.Chicago and New Orleans, the health departmentsare having a very large role in this.This is being embraced more by law enforcementthan it had been years ago.Trauma centers and hospitalsare doing their part in stepping up.And the U.S. Conference of Mayorshas endorsed not only the approachbut the specific model.Where there&#39;s really been uptake even fasteris in the international environment,where there&#39;s a 55-percent dropin the first neighborhood in Puerto Rico,where interruptions are just beginning in Honduras,where the strategy has been applied in Kenyafor the recent elections,and where there have been 500 interruptions in Iraq.
时间：12:17
zh-cn:暴力事件可以当作疾病来对待，它的表现形式就象一个疾病的表现形式。我们的理论，某种意义上说，是在处理过程中得到了验证的。最近，医学研究中心提出了一个研究报告提供了包括了神经科学方面的一些数据来解释暴力是如何传播的。
en:So violence is responding as a diseaseeven as it behaves as a disease.So the theory, in a way,is kind of being validated by the treatment.And recently, the Institute of Medicinecame out with a workshop reportwhich went through some of the data,including the neuroscience,on how this problem is really transmitted.
时间：12:42
zh-cn:我认为这个是好消息，因为这些研究让我们有机会走出以往的中世纪般的陈旧思维。这些研究给我们重新考虑把一些监狱变成儿童游乐场和公园的可能性。重新考虑把我们的社区变成采用新模式新方法，新类型的工作者的社区。用科学的方法来替代道德的方法。控制住情绪是解决问题中最重要的一部分。用科学的方法来解决是更加重要的。
en:So I think this is good news,because it allows us an opportunityto come out of the Middle Ages,which is where I feel this field has been.It gives us an opportunity to consider the possibilityof replacing some of these prisonswith playgrounds or parks,and to consider the possibilityof converting our neighborhoods into neighborhoods,and to allow there to be a new strategy,a new set of methods, a new set of workers:science, in a way, replacing morality.And moving away from emotionsis the most important part of the solutionto science as a more important part of the solution.
时间：13:27
zh-cn:我不是说所有的问题最终都能用我们的方法来解决。重要的是，我想要有个突破，让我们能够看着分布图，看着图表，提出一些问题，然后尽量采用以前在其他方面运用过很多次的方法。对我自己来说，我曾试图从感染性疾病中脱身。可是我没有。
en:So I didn&#39;t mean to come up with this at all.It was a matter of,I wanted actually a break,and we looked at maps, we looked at graphs,we asked some questionsand tried some toolsthat actually have been used many times beforefor other things.For myself, I tried to get away frominfectious diseases,and I didn&#39;t.
时间：13:57
zh-cn:谢谢大家！
en:Thank you.
时间：13:58
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
