时间： 0:17
zh-cn:我今晨6：10起床在昨晚12：45入睡之后。夜里我醒了一次。我的心律是每分钟61下。我的血压，127/74。昨天我锻炼了零分钟，所以我不能够计算运动时每分钟的最大心律。我摄入了大约600毫克咖啡因，0毫克酒精。我的自恋人格指数，或者说NPI-16，是个让人放心的0.31.
en:I got up this morning at 6:10 a.m.after going to sleep at 12:45 a.m.I was awakened once during the night.My heart rate was 61 beats per minute —my blood pressure, 127 over 74.I had zero minutes of exercise yesterday,so my maximum heart rate during exercise wasn&#39;t calculated.I had about 600 milligrams of caffeine,zero of alcohol.And my score on the Narcissism Personality Index,or the NPI-16,is a reassuring 0.31.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:我们知道数据对我们来说很有用可以用来做广告、管理、统治、搜寻。我将讲讲它在我们反思，学习，记忆，寻求进步的过程中起到什么样的作用。几年前，我的合作伙伴 Kevin Kelly 和我发现人们有兴趣测量和自我相关的跟踪数据远远超过了正常的，熟知的习惯比如每天量体重。人们在Twitter上记录他们的饮食，在iPhone上记录他们孩子的尿布。他们写下详细的日志以记录他们的花销，他们的情绪，他们的病症，他们的治疗。
en:We know that numbers are useful for uswhen we advertise, manage, govern, search.I&#39;m going to talk about how they&#39;re useful when we reflect,learn, rememberand want to improve.A few years ago, Kevin Kelly, my partner, and Inoticed that people were subjecting themselvesto regimes of quantitative measurement and self-trackingthat went far beyond the ordinary, familiar habitssuch as stepping on a scale every day.People were tracking their food via Twitter,their kids&#39; diapers on their iPhone.They were making detailed journalsof their spending, their mood,their symptoms, their treatments.
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:如今，现代技术在改变我们的生活方式手机的使用和普及，数据存储及信息处理速度的巨大改进，还有人体生物传感器的显著进展。那里的那个小黑点是个三维空间的感应器。它记录你在空间里的一举一动。如你所见，它又小又便宜。它们已经便宜到了每个低于一美元，而且它们被装载到了各种各样的仪器上。但有趣的是你能从这样一个小小传感器中获得让人难以置信的细节。这种传感器被装在这个碰撞生物仪中—和其他转换器一起—它是Fitbit。它记录你的活动，你的睡眠。它不过只是装了个传感器罢了。
en:Now, we know some of the technological factsthat are driving this change in our lifestyle —the uptake and diffusion of mobile devices,the exponential improvement in data storageand data processing,and the remarkable improvement in human biometric sensors.This little black dot thereis a 3D accelerometer.It tracks your movement through space.It is, as you can see, very small and also very cheap.They&#39;re now down to well under a dollar a piece,and they&#39;re going into all kinds of devices.But what&#39;s interestingis the incredible detailed information that you can getfrom just one sensor like this.This kind of sensoris in the hit biometric device —among early adopters at the moment — the Fitbit.This tracks your activity and also your sleep.It has just that sensor in it.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:你可能对耐克+系统颇为熟悉。我给你们看幅图，那个小蓝点就是传感器。它是一个压力传感器就像门铃里的一样。耐克公司知道如何用那个小小的传感器获取你的步速和行走距离。这是个带子用来让人们传输心律到耐克+系统。
en:You&#39;re probably familiar with the Nike+ system.I just put it up because that little blue dot is the sensor.It&#39;s really just a pressure sensorlike the kind that&#39;s in a doorbell.And Nike knows how to getyour pace and distance from just that sensor.This is the strapthat people use to transmit heart-rate datato their Nike+ system.
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:这是个漂亮的新仪器它记录你的详细睡眠数据不仅仅是你是睡是醒，而是你睡眠的阶段—深度睡眠，浅度睡眠，极深度睡眠。这个传感器不过是束发带上那个小小的金属条。剩下的是床边的显示器。供大家比较，这个睡眠追踪系统在仅仅几年前是这样的—我是说，直至如今.这个是今时今日的睡眠追踪系统。
en:This is a beautiful, new devicethat gives you detailed sleep tracking data,not just whether you&#39;re asleep or awake, but also your phase of sleep —deep sleep, light sleep, REM sleep.The sensor is just a little strip of metal in that headband there.The rest of it is the bedside console;just for reference, this is a sleep tracking system from just a few years ago —I mean, really until now.And this is the sleep tracking system of today.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:这个刚在华盛顿特区的一个医护会议上展现。你在这儿看到是个治哮喘吸入器但是顶上是个很小的GPS接受器.它给你哮喘发生的时间和地点使你意识到你身体的不适与时间和环境的联系
en:This just was presentedat a health care conference in D.C.Most of what you see there is an asthma inhaler,but the top is a very small GPS transceiver,which gives you the date and locationof an asthma incident,giving you a new awarenessof your vulnerabilityin relation to time and environmental factors.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:现在，我们知道那些新工具正在改变我们在这个世界里的自我意识—这些小小的在大自然里收集数据的传感器，这些无处不在的计算使数据经过分析被使用当然还有社会关系网让人们合作与贡献。但是我们觉得这些工具指向外界，就像窗户，现在我邀请你们把它们看做面向内部就是镜子了。所以当我们想到使用它们以获得一些系统性的改进我们也想想如何用来促进自我进步，自我发现，自我意识，自我了解。
en:Now, we know that new toolsare changing our sense of self in the world —these tiny sensors that gather data in nature,the ubiquitous computingthat allows that data to be understood and used,and of course the social networksthat allow people to collaborate and contribute.But we think of these tools as pointing outward,as windowsand I&#39;d just like to invite you to think of themas also turning inwardand becoming mirrors.So that when we think about using themto get some systematic improvement,we also think about how they can be useful for self-improvement,for self-discovery, self-awareness, self-knowledge.
时间： 4:13
zh-cn:这是个生物测量仪器：一副苹果耳机。去年，苹果公司提交了一些专利从耳机里获取血氧含量，心律和体温为什么？应该是为什么？一些人会说它是为了生物系统安全。一些人会说它是为了公众健康调查。一些人会说它是为了创新的销售调研。让我来告诉你这也是为了更有自知之明。“自我”不是唯一的东西；它也不是很多的东西。它只不过是我们的操作中心，我们的意识觉悟，我们道德的指南针。所以，如果我们想要在世界里变得更有效率，我们得对自我有更深入的了解。
en:Here&#39;s a biometric device:a pair of Apple Earbuds.Last year, Apple filed some patentsto get blood oxygenation,heart rate and body temperature via the Earbuds.What is this for?What should it be for?Some people will say it&#39;s for biometric security.Some people will say it&#39;s for public health research.Some people will say it&#39;s for avant-garde marketing research.I&#39;d like to tell youthat it&#39;s also for self-knowledge.And the self isn&#39;t the only thing; it&#39;s not even most things.The self is just our operation center,our consciousness,our moral compass.So, if we want to actmore effectively in the world,we have to get to know ourselves better.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
