时间： 0:11
zh-cn:不知道为什么，但我一直惊叹于这个世界上有25亿人可以通过互联网连接彼此。在任何时候都有超过30％的世界人口可以上网去学习、 创造和分享。我们每个人花在这上面的时间正在持续增加。最近一项研究显示，年轻的一代每天上网的时间超过8个小时。对一位9岁小女孩的父亲来讲，这个数字似乎太低了吧。（笑声）
en:I don&#39;t know why, but I&#39;m continually amazed to thinkthat two and a half billion of us around the worldare connected to each other through the Internetand that at any point in timemore than 30 percent of the world&#39;s populationcan go online to learn, to create and to share.And the amount of time each of us is spending doing all of thisis also continuing to go grow.A recent study showedthat the young generation aloneis spending over eight hours a day online.As the parent of a nine-year-old girl,that number seems awfully low.(Laughter)
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:正如互联网给我们每一个人打开了一个世界一样，它同时也把我们每个人展示给了这个世界。随之而来的，我们为互联时代所付出的代价就是我们的隐私。今天，我们很多人愿意相信互联网是一个私人的地方；其实它并不是。伴随每一次的鼠标点击和每一次的屏幕触摸，我们就像汉塞尔和格雷特尔（格林童话《糖果屋》中的人物）一样，时不时地把含有我们个人信息的“面包屑”散落在我们经过的数字丛林的每个角落。我们遗留下了我们的生日、住所、兴趣和偏好、人际关系、个人财务历史等等信息。
en:But just as the Internet has opened up the world for each and every one of us,it has also opened up each and every one of us to the world.And increasingly, the price we&#39;re being asked to payfor all of this connectednessis our privacy.Today, what many of us would love to believeis that the Internet is a private place; it&#39;s not.And with every click of the mouse and every touch of the screen,we are like Hansel and Gretelleaving breadcrumbs of our personal informationeverywhere we travel through the digital woods.We are leaving our birthdays, our places of residence,our interests and preferences,our relationships,our financial histories, and on and on it goes.
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:不要误会我，我不是在说分享数据是一件不好的事情。事实上，当我知道我的哪些信息在被分享，同时也经过过我的许可后，我会想要一些网站了解我的使用习惯。这能使它们更好地建议我可能想读的书，或者给我的家人看的电影，或者可以交流的朋友。但是当我不知道或者未经我许可时，这就会出现问题。今天互联网上有种现象叫做行为跟踪。这是一项很大的生意。
en:Now don&#39;t get me wrong,I&#39;m not for one minute suggesting that sharing data is a bad thing.In fact, when I know the data that&#39;s being sharedand I&#39;m asked explicitly for my consent,I want some sites to understand my habits.It helps them suggest books for me to reador movies for my family to watchor friends for us to connect with.But when I don&#39;t know and when I haven&#39;t been asked,that&#39;s when the problem arises.It&#39;s a phenomenon on the Internet todaycalled behavioral tracking,and it is very big business.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:事实上，这已经形成了一个产业建立在对我们的行为跟踪基础上，为我们每个人建立个人资料档案。当所有这些资料到手时，他们可以用这些资料做任何想做的事情。今天这个领域还缺少监管和相应的规范。除了近来美国和欧洲的一些声明外，在这个领域没有任何对消费者的保护措施。
en:In fact, there&#39;s an entire industry formedaround following us through the digital woodsand compiling a profile on each of us.And when all of that data is held,they can do almost whatever they want with it.This is an area today that has very few regulationsand even fewer rules.Except for some of the recent announcements here in the United States and in Europe,it&#39;s an area of consumer protection that&#39;s almost entirely naked.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:下面让我来进一步揭露这一个“潜伏”着的产业。在我身后你看到这个东西叫Collusion,它是一个实验性的浏览器插件，你可以安装在你的火狐浏览器上。这有助于查看你的网络数据的去向，并知道谁在跟踪你。这里你看到的红点都是在对我进行跟踪的网站。我并没有浏览这些网站，它们却在跟踪着我。蓝点是我实际上浏览过的站点。灰点是那些在跟踪着我，而我对它们却一无所知的网站。你可以看到，所有的网站相连在一起构成了一张网络中关于我的图片，这就是我的个人资料。
en:So let me expose this lurking industry a little bit further.The visualization you see forming behind me is called Collusionand it&#39;s an experimental browser add-onthat you can install in your Firefox browserthat helps you see where your Web data is going and who&#39;s tracking you.The red dots you see up thereare sites that are behavioral trackingthat I have not navigated to, but are following me.The blue dots are the sites that I&#39;ve actually navigated directly to.And the gray dots are sites that are also tracking me,but I have no idea who they are.All of them are connected, as you can see,to form a picture of me on the Web.And this is my profile.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:现在让我直接从一个非常具体的和个人的例子来说明这个问题，两周前在我自己的笔记本电脑中安装了Collusion，我让它跟着我，看看我非常普通的一天会发生些什么。和你们大多数人一样，我的每一天从检查电子邮件开始，然后去个新闻网站，看些头条新闻。这时，我看上一条报道，分析学校进行音乐素养教育的好处，然后我把它分享到一个社交网络上。
en:So let me go from an example to something very specific and personal.I installed Collusion in my own laptop two weeks agoand I let it follow me around for what was a pretty typical day.Now like most of you,I actually start my day going online and checking email.I then go to a news site, look for some headlines.And in this particular case I happened to like one of themon the merits of music literacy in schoolsand I shared it over a social network.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:这时，我的女儿过来吃早餐，我问她：&quot;你的学校有在注重培养你们的音乐素养吗？&quot;她，一个9岁的小姑娘，疑惑地看着我，很自然地问：&quot;什么是素养？&quot;当然，我让她在网上查一查。现在让我在这儿停一下。我们刚开始吃了一点早餐，就已经有将近 25个站点在跟踪着我。我只看过其中的四个。
en:Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table,and I asked her, &quot;Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school?&quot;And she, of course, naturally as a nine-year-old,looked at me and said quizzically, &quot;What&#39;s literacy?&quot;So I sent her online, of course, to look it up.Now let me stop here.We are not even two bites into breakfastand there are already nearly 25 sites that are tracking me.I have navigated to a total of four.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:下面让我快进我的这一天。我去上班，查看电子邮件，我登录到更多社交网站，我写博客，去看了更多的新闻报道，分享了其中的一部分，然后看了一些视频，非常典型的一天 ——— 在这种情况下，其实相当无趣 ——在这一天结束时，再来看看我的个人网络资料，红点的数量急速激增。灰点指数倍地增长。总的来说，有超过150个站点在跟踪我的个人信息，大部分未经过我的许可。
en:So let me fast-forward through the rest of my day.I go to work, I check email,I log onto a few more social sites, I blog,I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports,I go look at some videos,pretty typical day — in this case, actually fairly pedantic —and at the end of the day, as my day winds down,look at my profile.The red dots have exploded.The gray dots have grown exponentially.All in all, there&#39;s over 150 sitesthat are now tracking my personal information,most all of them without my consent.
时间： 4:40
zh-cn:我看着这张图片，大吃一惊。这不算什么。我正通过网络被人跟踪。为什么会这样？很简单 ——这是一笔很大的生意。在这项业务中领头的一些公司，如今一年的收入超过了390亿美元。更甚者，这并不是只针对成人的。在我给自己电脑装Collusion的时候，我也给我女儿装了一个。在一个星期六的上午，她一共上了两个小时的网，这是她的网络个人资料。
en:I look at this picture and it freaks me out.This is nothing. I am being stalked across the Web.And why is this happening?Pretty simple — it&#39;s huge business.The revenue of the top handful of companies in this spaceis over 39 billion dollars today.And as adults, we&#39;re certainly not alone.At the same time I installed my own Collusion profile,I installed one for my daughter.And on one single Saturday morning, over two hours on the Internet,here&#39;s her Collusion profile.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:这是一个九岁女孩，她就浏览了一些儿童网站。我看到这里，从惊讶转变为愤怒。我做这些不再是因为我是一个科技先锋或者隐私倡导者，而因为我是一个父亲。想象一下在现实世界里，有个人，拿着一个相机和一个笔记本，跟着我们的孩子，并记录他们的一举一动。我可以告诉你们，在这个房间里的所有人，没有人能坐视不管。我们都会采取行动。可能不是什么好行为，但是我们都会。（笑声）同样，我们对网络跟踪也不能置之不理。这些是真实发生的。
en:This is a nine-year-old girlnavigating to principally children&#39;s sites.I move from this, from freaked out to enraged.This is no longer me being a tech pioneer or a privacy advocate;this is me being a parent.Imagine in the physical worldif somebody followed our children around with a camera and a notebookand recorded their every movement.I can tell you, there isn&#39;t a person in this room that would sit idly by.We&#39;d take action. It may not be good action, but we would take action.(Laughter)We can&#39;t sit idly by here either.This is happening today.
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:隐私不是一个可选项，它不应该成为我们上网所要付出的代价。我们的声音很重要，但我们的行动更为重要。
en:Privacy is not an option,and it shouldn&#39;t be the price we acceptfor just getting on the Internet.Our voices matter and our actions matter even more.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:今天，我们已经发布了Collusion。你可以下载它，将它安装在你的火狐上，看谁通过网络在偷窥你，谁在数字丛林中跟踪你。更进一步，我们的声音需要被更多人听到。因为那些我们不知道的事，其实会伤害我们。因为互联网的记忆是永恒的。我们正在受到监视。但现在是我们监视它们的时候了。
en:Today we&#39;ve launched Collusion.You can download it, install it in Firefox,to see who is tracking you across the Weband following you through the digital woods.Going forward, all of our voices need to be heard.Because what we don&#39;t know can actually hurt us.Because the memory of the Internet is forever.We are being watched.It&#39;s now time for us to watch the watchers.
时间： 6:21
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:22
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
