时间： 0:16
zh-cn:很难相信那个特殊时刻已过去将近一年当时驱动经济的金融，信贷都停滞了。就像一次严重心脏骤停般的影响。它也许是对像伯纳德•麦道夫，我们刚才看到的，这样的多年的吸血鬼的惩罚。还有滥用类固醇，狂欢作乐，等等。政府投入巨额资金试图维持整个系统，至今才短短几个月。我们现在正处在一个很奇怪的有点模糊的地带，没有人确切知道什么有效，什么没有。我们没有任何清晰的地图，或是指南针来指引我们。我们不知道再去相信哪些专家。
en:It&#39;s hard to believe that it&#39;s less than a year since the extraordinary momentwhen the finance, the credit, which drives our economies froze.A massive cardiac arrest.The effect, the payback, perhaps, for years of vampire predators like Bernie Madoff,whom we saw earlier.Abuse of steroids, binging and so on.And it&#39;s only a few months since governmentsinjected enormous sums of money to try and keep the whole system afloat.And we&#39;re now in a very strange sort of twilight zone,where no one quite knows what&#39;s worked, or what doesn&#39;t.We don&#39;t have any very clear maps, any compass to guide us.We don&#39;t know which experts to believe anymore.
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:我想尝试和做的是，给危机另一面上的景观画一些指示箭头，有哪些事我们应该注意还有我们如何真正利用这次危机。有一个关于领导才能的定义是这么说的，“它是利用最小危机来达到最大效果的能力我就是想谈一下我们如何确保这次决不小的危机能真正被充分利用。
en:What I&#39;m going to try and do is to give some pointersto what I think is the landscape on the other side of the crisis,what things we should be looking out forand how we can actually use the crisis.There&#39;s a definition of leadership which says,&quot;It&#39;s the ability to use the smallest possible crisisfor the biggest possible effect.&quot;And I want to talk about how we ensure that this crisis,which is by no means small, really is used to the full.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:我想先稍微谈谈我自己的经历我有非常混乱的经历这也有可能使我比较适合混乱的时代我是电信博士，你们可以看到。我曾经短期师从此人，作一个佛教徒我曾经是一名公务员也曾为这个人出谋划策，
en:I want to start just by saying a bit about where I&#39;m coming from.I&#39;ve got a very confused backgroundwhich perhaps makes me appropriate for confused times.I&#39;ve got a Ph.D. in Telecoms, as you can see.I trained briefly as a Buddhist monk under this guy.I&#39;ve been a civil servant,and I&#39;ve been in charge of policy for this guy as well.
时间： 1:46
zh-cn:但我想从我在这个城市，这所大学，作为一个学生开始说起。和现在一样，当时这也是一个美丽的地方，有球类运动，划船，有美丽的人，他们很多人真心相信里根总统的这句话&quot;尽管他们说努力工作并不会害了你，但为什么要冒这个险？
en:But what I want to talk about begins when I was at this city, this university, as a student.And then as now, it was a beautiful place of balls and punts, beautiful people,many of whom took to heart Ronald Reagan&#39;s commentthat, &quot;even if they say hard work doesn&#39;t do you any harm,why risk it?&quot;
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:但我在这里的时候，我的许多青少年伙伴处在非常不一样的形势下，他们在年轻人失业飙升的时候毕业离开了学校，在就业机会上他们等于撞上了南墙。我没有去划船，而是花了大量时间和他们在一起他们不是缺少智慧，风度或是活力，可他们没有希望，没有工作，没有前途。当人们不被允许有用时，很快他们就会认为自己是无用的。尽管当时这种情况对音乐产业很不错，但对任何其他行业来说并不太好从那时起，我就在考虑，为什么资本主义对某些事情极其有效，但是对另一些事情却并不这么有效呢？又为什么它在某些方面很创新，但在另些方面却没有呢？
en:But when I was here,a lot of my fellow teenagers were in a very different situation,leaving school at a time then of rapidly growing youth unemployment,and essentially hitting a brick wall in terms of their opportunities.And I spent quite a lot of time with them rather than in punts.And they were people who were not short of wit, or grace or energy,but they had no hope, no jobs, no prospects.And when people aren&#39;t allowed to be useful,they soon think that they&#39;re useless.And although that was great for the music business at the time,it wasn&#39;t much good for anything else.And ever since then, I&#39;ve wondered why it is that capitalismis so amazingly efficient at some things, but so inefficient at others,why it&#39;s so innovative in some ways and so un-innovative in others.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:那段时间以后，我们事实上经历了一段特殊的繁荣时期，这个国家有史以来最长的繁荣时期史无前例的富裕和繁荣但是这种增长并没有一直带来我们所需要的门肯曾经说过，“每一个复杂的问题，都有一个简单的解“，但这是错的。我并不是说增长是错误的，但是值得注意的是经过这么多年的增长，许多事情并没有好转。在整个西方世界，抑郁症的比例在不断上升。看一下美国，美国人中无人可以谈心的人口比例从十分之一增长到了四分之一我们花更多时间在上下班的路上，但从这个图中你会看到，在路上花的时间越长，你就有可能越不快乐更清晰的一点是经济进步并不能自动转化为社会进步或者人类进步。
en:Now, since that time,we&#39;ve actually been through an extraordinary boom,the longest boom ever in the history of this country.Unprecedented wealth and prosperity,but that growth hasn&#39;t always delivered what we needed.H.L. Mencken once said that, &quot;to every complex problem,there is a simple solution and it&#39;s wrong.&quot;But I&#39;m not saying growth is wrong,but it&#39;s very striking that throughout the years of growth,many things didn&#39;t get better.Rates of depression carried on up, right across the Western world.If you look at America, the proportion of Americanswith no one to talk to about important thingswent up from a tenth to a quarter.We commuted longer to work, but as you can see from this graph,the longer you commute the less happy you&#39;re likely to be.And it became ever clearer that economic growthdoesn&#39;t automatically translate into social growth or human growth.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:我们现在正处在另一个时刻、又一拨青少年正在进入这个残酷的就业市场到今年底，这里会有一百万的年轻失业人口。而在美国每天都有数千人失去他们的工作我们必须极尽所能去帮助他们但我们也必须问这样一个问题，我想，一个更深刻的问题我们是否能利用这次危机向前跳跃到一个不同的，更适合人类需要的经济制度，达到经济和社会的更和谐状态。
en:We&#39;re now at another momentwhen another wave of teenagers are entering a cruel job market.There will be a million unemployed young people hereby the end of the year,thousands losing their jobs everyday in America.We&#39;ve got to do whatever we can to help them,but we&#39;ve also got to ask, I think, a more profound questionof whether we use this crisis to jump forwardto a different kind of economy that&#39;s more suited to human needs,to a better balance of economy and society.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:我认为历史的重要一课就是，即使最深的危机也能带来机遇它们把边缘的想法带入主流他们往往加速了急需的改革你们看到这在三十年代发生过，当时的经济大萧条为布雷顿森林，福利国家等铺平了道路。你们也可以看到现在在我们周围一种完全不同的经济制度和资本主义已萌生出绿芽并可能生长你们在日常生活中就能发现这些。当时势艰难，人们不得不为自己做点什么在全世界，从牛津，奥马哈到鄂木斯克，你们会发现城市化务农的激增人们借用土地， 借用房顶把游艇变作临时农场。
en:And I think one of the lessons of history is thateven the deepest crises can be moments of opportunity.They bring ideas from the margins into the mainstream.They often lead to the acceleration of much-needed reforms.And you saw that in the &#39;30s,when the Great Depression paved the wayfor Bretton Woods, welfare states and so on.And I think you can see around us now,some of the green shoots of a very different kind of economy and capitalismwhich could grow.You can see it in daily life.When times are hard, people have to do things for themselves,and right across the world, Oxford, Omaha, Omsk,you can see an extraordinary explosion of urban farming,people taking over land, taking over roofs,turning barges into temporary farms.
时间： 5:07
zh-cn:我本人也是其中之一。在我的花园里我养了六万只这个家伙。还有一些这个。这是母鸡Atilla。我只是这巨大运动的一小份子，对某些人来说是为了生存但同时它也涉及到价值观，涉及到不同类型的经济，它并不是那么关系到消费和信用而是关系到对我们真正重要的事。到处你们可以看到时间银行和并行货币的激增，人们运用高科技联系起各种被市场，人，楼房和土地解放的资源把它们和有最强烈需求的人联系起来。
en:And I&#39;m a very small part of this.I have 60,000 of these things in my garden.A few of these. This is Atilla the hen.And I&#39;m a very small part of a very large movement,which for some people is about survival,but is also about values, about a different kind of economy,which isn&#39;t so much about consumption and credit,but about things which matter to us.And everywhere too, you can see a proliferation of time banksand parallel currencies,people using smart technologies to link upall the resources freed up by the market — people, buildings, land —and linking them to whomever has got the most compelling needs.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:这里有个类似的故事，关于政府的，又是里根总统，他说在英语里最滑稽的两句话是，“我是政府的。我来这儿帮助你们。”不过去年当政府真的介入，人们还是很高兴有政府在，并且他们有所行动。但是现在，几个月后，再好的政治家都像在活吞青蛙还不能拉着脸，像某些人形容的那样，他们隐藏不了心中的无把握。因为已经很明显他们投入到经济中的大量资金，无论多少都只是在修补过去，帮助那些银行和汽车公司脱离困境，而不是为将来做好准备。到底有多少钱投入到了具体的消费增长中，而不是用来去解决我们必须解决的真正严重的问题
en:There&#39;s a similar story, I think, for governments.Ronald Reagan, again, said the two funniest sentencesin the English language are,&quot;I&#39;m from the government. And I&#39;m here to help.&quot;But I think last year when governments did step in,people were quite glad that they were there, that they did act.But now, a few months on,however good politicians are at swallowing frogswithout pulling a face, as someone once put it,they can&#39;t hide their uncertainty.Because it&#39;s already clearhow much of the enormous amount of money they put into the economy,really went into fixing the past, bailing out the banks, the car companies,not preparing us for the future.How much of the money is going into concrete and boosting consumption,not into solving the really profound problems we have to solve.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:到处，当人们想到那些空前的巨额资金那些被花掉的我们的钱，我们孩子的钱现在，在这个危机深处，他们在问：想必，我们应该用更长远的眼光来加速朝绿色经济的转变来为衰老做好准备，来对付有些不平等这些不平等给这个国家还有美国留下了伤疤而不只是把钱都给现任者?想必，我们应该把钱给企业家，给公民社会使人们能够创新而不是把钱给大的，关系好的公司，和庞大的笨重的政府项目。总而言之，中国伟大的哲人老子说过，“治大国如烹小鲜。&quot;不要做过头。
en:And everywhere, as people think about the unprecedented sumswhich are being spent of our money and our children&#39;s money,now, in the depth of this crisis, they&#39;re asking:Surely, we should be using this with a longer-term visionto accelerate the shift to a green economy,to prepare for aging, to deal with some of the inequalitieswhich scar countries like this and the United Statesrather than just giving the money to the incumbents?Surely, we should be giving the money to entrepreneurs, to civil society,for people able to create the new,not to the big, well-connected companies,big, clunky government programs.And, after all this, as the great Chinese sage Lao Tzu said,&quot;Governing a great country is like cooking a small fish.Don&#39;t overdo it.&quot;
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:我觉得越来越多人还在问：为什么刺激消费，而不是改变一下我们所消费的？就像圣保罗的市长，他取缔了广告牌还有许多其他城市，像旧金山进行了电动汽车基础设施的建设你能看到在商业社会里零星的同样的事情在发生有一些，我觉得有一些银行家好像什么都没有学到，也什么都没忘掉但是问一下你们自己：经济中最大的领域将会是什么在10，20，30年后？不会是排队等着领救济品的行业比如汽车，航空航天工业，等等。
en:And I think more and more people are also asking:Why boost consumption, rather than change what we consume?Like the mayor of São Paulo who&#39;s banned advertising billboards,or the many cities like San Franciscoputting in infrastructures for electric cars.You can see a bit of the same thing happening in the business world.Some, I think some of the bankerswho have appear to have learned nothing and forgotten nothing.But ask yourselves: What will be the biggest sectors of the economyin 10, 20, 30 years time? It won&#39;t be the ones lining up for handouts,like cars and aerospace and so on.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:最大的领域，从目前来看，会是健康-已占美国经济的百分之十八预计到本世纪中会增长到百分之三十，甚至四十。老年人护理，儿童护理已经比汽车行业多雇佣很多人教育，占经济的百分之六，七，八，会持续增长环境服务，能源服务，各式各样的绿色工作它们都指向了一个非常不同的经济形式这种经济形式不只是关于产品，而是要利用分散式网络并且它首先是建立在关怀和关系之上建立在人们对他人的服务之上，而且经常是一对一的服务而不是简单的卖给他们商品
en:The biggest sector, by far, will be health —already 18 percent of the American economy,predicted to grow to 30, even 40 percent by mid-century.Elder care, child care, already much bigger employers than cars.Education: six, seven, eight percent of the economy and growing.Environmental services, energy services, the myriad of green jobs,they&#39;re all pointing to a very different kind of economywhich isn&#39;t just about products, but is using distributed networks,and it&#39;s founded above all on care, on relationships,on what people do to other people, often one to one,rather than simply selling them a product.
时间： 8:34
zh-cn:还有，我认为，现在把对公民社会的挑战对政府的挑战和对商业的挑战联系起来的是从某方面来说非常简单的，但也是非常困难的一种东西。我们知道我们的社会必须从根本上改变我们知道我们不能再回到危机之前但同时我们也知道只有通过实验我们才会发现怎样运行一个低碳的城市，怎样照料更大的老龄化人口，怎样解决吸毒问题，等等。
en:And I think that what connects the challenge for civil society,the challenge for governments and the challenge for business nowis, in a way, a very simple one, but quite a difficult one.We know our societies have to radically change.We know we can&#39;t go back to where we were before the crisis.But we also know it&#39;s only through experimentthat we&#39;ll discover exactly how to run a low carbon city,how to care for a much older population,how to deal with drug addiction and so on.
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:这里还有个问题。在科学领域，我们系统的做实验我们的社会现在会花GDP的百分之二，三，四系统地投资新发现，投资科学和技术为杰出发明的输油管道加油照亮像我们这样的聚会并不是我们的科学家一定比一百年前的更加聪明，他们也许是的，但他们以前从没有过这么多的支持不过打击人的是，在社会里我们几乎没什么可以拿来比较的，没有可比较的投资，在资本主义不擅长事情上，比如热情，或者同情，或者关心，或者关怀上没有过系统的实验。
en:And here&#39;s the problem.In science, we do experiments systematically.Our societies now spend two, three, four percent of GDPto invest systematically in new discovery, in science, in technology,to fuel the pipeline of brilliant inventionswhich illuminate gatherings like this.It&#39;s not that our scientists are necessarily much smarterthan they were a hundred years ago, maybe they are,but they have a hell of a lot more backing than they ever did.And what&#39;s striking though,is that in society there&#39;s almost nothing comparable,no comparable investment,no systematic experiment, in the things capitalism isn&#39;t very good at,like compassion, or empathy, or relationships or care.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:直到我碰到这个人我才真正了解这些这个人那时80岁，是个有点散漫的人靠喝罗宋汤过活，并且认为人们太把熨烫衣服平整当回事他帮助重塑了英国的战后机构，它的福利状况，它的经济制度，但是在某种程度上也重塑了他自己，作为一个社会企业家成为非常多的不同组织的创造者。有一些非常有名，比如开放大学（Open University），有110,000个学生，老年大学有将近50万老年人教另外一些老年人，还有一些新奇的像在车库里DIY, 电话教授语言还有培养社会企业家的学校。他在生命结束之际把他的公司卖给了风投
en:Now, I didn&#39;t really understand that until I met this guywho was then an 80-year-old, slightly shambolic manwho lived on tomato soup and thought ironing was very overrated.He had helped shape Britain&#39;s post-war institutions,its welfare state, its economy,but had sort of reinvented himself as a social entrepreneur,became an inventor of many, many different organizations.Some famous ones like the Open University, which has 110,000 students,the University of the Third Age, which has nearly half a million older peopleteaching other older people,as well as strange things like DIY garages and language linesand schools for social entrepreneurs.And he ended his life selling companies to venture capitalists.
时间：10:33
zh-cn:他相信如果你发现一个问题，你不应该告诉别人去行动，你应该自己行动起来，他活得足够长看到了足够多的自己的想法先是被嘲笑后来被实现。他说你应该把“不”当成一个问题，而不是一个答案。他的一生就是一个寻找更好社会答案的系统实验不是从一个理论中寻找，而是从实验中寻找，这些实验是涉及到对社会需求最有智慧的人的实验，这些人通常是有那些有那样需求的人。他还相信我们和他人一起生活，我们和他人分享世界因此我们的创新也必须&quot;和&quot;他人一起实现，而不是&quot;对&quot;他人，&quot;为&quot;他人做什么，等等。
en:He believed if you see a problem, you shouldn&#39;t tell someone to act,you should act on it yourself, and he lived long enoughand saw enough of his ideas first scorned and then succeedthat he said you should always take no as a question and not as an answer.And his life was a systematic experiment to find better social answers,not from a theory, but from experiment, and experiment involving the peoplewith the best intelligence on social needs,which were usually the people living with those needs.And he believed we live with others, we share the world with othersand therefore our innovation must be done with others too,not doing things at people, for them, and so on.
时间：11:12
zh-cn:他所做的曾经默默无名，但我觉得它正在很快地成为主流。我们在以他名字命名的机构中做的就是这样的事，在那里我们尝试，发明，创新，从事新的项目，不管是学校，网络公司还是健康机构，等等。我们发现我们是这些机构飞速发展的全球运动的一部分，这些机构致力于社会创新利用设计，科技，或社区团体的想法孕育出未来世界的幼芽，但是是通过实践，通过论证而不是通过理论。它们从韩国传播到巴西，到印度，到美国，传遍欧洲。危机给了它们新的动力，还有对解决诸如失业，社区失效等问题的需求也给了它们新的动力
en:Now, what he did didn&#39;t used to have a name,but I think it&#39;s rapidly becoming quite mainstream.It&#39;s what we do in the organization named after himwhere we try and invent, create, launch new ventures,whether it&#39;s schools, web companies, health organizations and so on.And we find ourselves part of a very rapidly growing global movementof institutions working on social innovation,using ideas from design or technology or community organizingto develop the germs of a future world, but through practice and through demonstrationand not through theory.And they&#39;re spreading from Korea to Brazil to India to the USAand across Europe.And they&#39;ve been given new momentum by the crisis, by the need for better answersto joblessness, community breakdown and so on.
时间：12:03
zh-cn:有些想法很新奇。这些是抱怨合唱班。人们聚到一起来歌唱真正使他们烦恼的东西。(笑声）还有一些更加实际的，像健康教练，学习辅导员，工作俱乐部。还有一些是非常结构性的， 像社会影响债券你筹钱投资让年轻人远离犯罪或者帮助老年人远离医院，根据你的项目有多成功，你来收取回报
en:Some of the ideas are strange.These are complaints choirs.People come together to sing about the things that really bug them.(Laughter)Others are much more pragmatic: health coaches, learning mentors, job clubs.And some are quite structural, like social impact bondswhere you raise money to invest in diverting teenagers from crimeor helping old people keep out of hospital,and you get paid back according to how successful your projects are.
时间：12:31
zh-cn:现在，所有这些代表了一种观点我认为已经很快变成了一种常识和我们如何应对危机的一部分就是意识到有这种投资需求，要投资在使社会进步的创新上和使科技进步的创新上。大笔健康创新资金在今年早些时候在这个国家投入使用还有一个公共服务创新实验室在整个北欧，许多政府现在在国内都有了创新实验室就在几个月前，美国总统奥巴马在白宫启动了社会创新办公室
en:Now, the idea that all of this represents,I think, is rapidly becoming a common senseand part of how we respond to the crisis,recognizing the need to invest in innovation for social progressas well as technological progress.There were big health innovation fundslaunched earlier this year in this country,as well as a public service innovation lab.Across northern Europe, many governmentsnow have innovation laboratories within them.And just a few months ago, President Obamalaunched the Office of Social Innovation in the White House.
时间：13:01
zh-cn:人们开始问这样的问题：想必，就像我们用经济的，GDP的百分之二，三，四投资于研发，如果我们可以把公共消费的百分之一投入到社会创新中去，投入到老年护理，和各种教育中还有帮助残疾人的新的途径中去，会发生什么？也许，我们能获得的社会生产力收益和我们投入到经济和科技中得到的收益差不多
en:And what people are beginning to ask is:Surely, just as we invest in R and D, two, three, four percent,of our GDP, of our economy,what if we put, let&#39;s say, one percent of public spendinginto social innovation, into elder care, new kinds of education,new ways of helping the disabled?Perhaps we&#39;d achieve similar productivity gains in societyto those we&#39;ve had in the economy and in technology.
时间：13:26
zh-cn:如果说一两代人以前，巨大的挑战是把人送上月球那可能现在我们需要应对的挑战就是消除儿童营养失调，人口买卖或者是一个对美国或对欧洲来说离家近一点的挑战，我们为什么不为自己制定这样一个目标为今天的公民多赢得十亿年的寿命这些都是十年内可以实现的目标但都必须经过根本上的系统性的实验，不只是利用科技，还要用生活方式和文化还有政策和机构来实现
en:And if, a generation or two ago, the big challengeswere ones like getting a man on the moon,perhaps the challenges we need to set ourselves noware ones like eliminating child malnutrition, stopping trafficking,or one, I think closer to home for America or Europe,why don&#39;t we set ourselves the goalof achieving a billion extra years of life for today&#39;s citizens.Now those are all goals which could be achieved within a decade,but only with radical and systematic experiment,not just with technologies, but also with lifestyles and cultureand policies and institutions too.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:最后，作为结束语，我想稍微谈一下这对资本主义的意义。我认为这场运动从边缘开始的运动，仍然很小。它不像欧洲核组织，国防先进研究计划局，IBM或者杜邦那样资源丰富♪它告诉我们资本主义将变得更加社会化。它已经扎根于社会网络中。它将会更多参与社会投资和社会护理参与到这样一些行业，它的价值体现在你和他人一起做了什么，而不是你卖给他们什么商品，体现在消费也体现在人们的关系上。有趣的是，它暗示了这样一种未来，社会从资本主义中学习到一些窍门有关如何把持续创新的DNA根植于社会，尝试新的东西，然后发展壮大那些有效的。
en:Now, I want to end by saying a little bit about what I think this means for capitalism.I think what this is all about, this whole movementwhich is growing from the margins, remains quite small.Nothing like the resources of a CERN or a DARPA or an IBM or a Dupont.What it&#39;s telling us is that capitalism is going to become more social.It&#39;s already immersed in social networks.It will become more involved in social investment, and social careand in industries where the value comes from what you do with others,not just from what you sell to them,and from relationships as well as from consumption.But interestingly too, it implies a future where society learns a few tricks from capitalismabout how you embed the DNA of restless continual innovationinto society, trying things out and then growing and scaling the ones that work.
时间：14:54
zh-cn:我认为这样的未来对很多人来说都是令人惊奇的。近些年来，一大批聪明人认为资本主义基本上赢了。历史结束了，社会不可避免地在经济后屈居二位。但是今天听到人们如何经常谈论资本主义， 谈论200年前的君主制在法国大革命和君主制在法国复辟后我还是被他们类似的观点击倒了。
en:Now, I think this future will be quite surprising to many people.In recent years, a lot of intelligent people thought that capitalism had basically won.History was overand society would inevitably have to take second place to economy.But I&#39;ve been struck with a parallel in how people often talk about capitalism todayand how they talked about the monarchy 200 years ago,just after the French Revolution and the restoration of the monarchy in France.
时间：15:22
zh-cn:当时，人们说君主制统治了所有地方因为它是根生在人性里的。我们天生是顺从的。我们需要阶层统治。就像今天，那些热衷于完全自由的资本主义的人说的资本主义根植于人性中。只是现在是个人主义，爱打听别人隐私，等等。后来君主制打败了它的挑战者，大众民主，♪大众民主被认为是善意的，但是注定会失败的实验就像现在资本主义打败了社会主义。甚至卡斯特罗现在也说，只有一件事被比跨国资本主义剥削还要坏那就是不被跨国资本主义剥削。尽管当时君主制，宫殿，堡垒战领了每一个城市的地平线，而且看上去永久和自信，但今天却是银行大楼的闪亮塔尖占领了每一个大城市。
en:Then, people said monarchy dominated everywherebecause it was rooted in human nature.We were naturally deferential. We needed hierarchy.Just as today, the enthusiasts of unrestrained capitalismsay it&#39;s rooted in human nature,only now it&#39;s individualism, inquisitiveness, and so on.Then monarchy had seen off its big challenger, mass democracy,which was seen as a well-intentioned but doomed experiment,just as capitalism has seen off socialism.Even Fidel Castro now says that the only thing worsethan being exploited by multinational capitalismis not being exploited by multinational capitalism.And whereas then monarchies, palaces and forts dominated every city skylineand looked permanent and confident,today it&#39;s the gleaming towers of the banks which dominate every big city.
时间：16:10
zh-cn:我不是建议人群去冲击街垒并且在最近的路灯柱上吊死每一个投资银行家，尽管那听上去确实蛮诱人的。但我真的认为我们正处在一个时代的边上，就像发生在君主制，还有军事上一样，当金融资本的中心位置将要结束，它将会逐步移到边上，移向社会的边缘，从主人变成仆人，一个服务于生产性经济和人类需要的仆人。
en:I&#39;m not suggesting the crowds are about to storm the barricadesand string up every investment banker from the nearest lamppost,though that might be quite tempting.But I do think we&#39;re on the verge of a period when,just as happened to the monarchy and, interestingly, the military too,the central position of finance capital is going to come to an end,and it&#39;s going to steadily move to the sides, the margins of our society,transformed from being a master into a servant,a servant to the productive economy and of human needs.
时间：16:41
zh-cn:当那发生时，我们会想起一些有关资本主义的简单而又明显的事实，就是，并不像你在经济教科书中读到的，它并不是一个自给自足的系统。它依靠于其他系统，依靠生态学，依靠家庭，依靠社区，当这些都没有补足，资本主义也会变糟。我们的人性中并不只有自私，它还有同情心。不光有竞争，还有关怀。因为这次危机之深，我们处在一个选择的时刻。
en:And as that happens,we will remember something very simple and obvious about capitalism,which is that, unlike what you read in economics textbooks,it&#39;s not a self-sufficient system.It depends on other systems,on ecology, on family, on community,and if these aren&#39;t replenished, capitalism suffers too.And our human nature isn&#39;t just selfish, it&#39;s also compassionate.It&#39;s not just competitive, it&#39;s also caring.Because of the depth of the crisis, I think we are at a moment of choice.
时间：17:16
zh-cn:危机几乎在我们周围不断深化。到今年年底将更糟，很有可能一年后更加糟糕。但是这也是那种稀有时刻之一当我们必须选择是愤怒地踏步回到我们一年或两年前对经济到底是为什么服务有一个很狭隘的想法还是这是一个向前跳跃的时刻，重新启动做一些我们很可能原来就应该做的事情。谢谢。
en:The crisis is almost certainly deepening around us.It will be worse at the end of this year,quite possibly worse in a year&#39;s time than it is today.But this is one of those very rare momentswhen we have to choose whether we&#39;re just pedaling furiouslyto get back to where we were a year or two ago,and a very narrow idea of what the economy is for,or whether this is a moment to jump ahead, to rebootand to do some of the things we probably should have been doing anyway.Thank you.
时间：17:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
