时间： 0:15
zh-cn:今天我想和大家一同探讨的问题是具有现实意义的即人们如何获得基本的医疗保障我们都知道，现在是一个成本至上的社会对于此我们应如何取舍？首先，我们来讨论这样一种情况这个情况是这样的如果我们想要治疗某种疾病我们必须先弄清楚这是什么样的一种病只有通过诊断，我们才能进行相应的治疗。
en:The problem that I want to talk with you aboutis really the problem of:How does one supply healthcarein a world in which cost is everything?How do you do that?And the basic paradigm we want to suggest to you,I want to suggest to you, isone in which you say that in order totreat disease you have to first know what you&#39;re treating —that&#39;s diagnostics — and then you have to do something.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:同样，诊断也是我们这个项目的核心问题这里，称作诊断为先，或零成本诊断。在座的各位或许会问如何才能提供零成本的医疗信息？接下来，我就用两个例子予以说明。其实，艰苦的随军医疗与第三世界的医疗情况甚是相像两者都面临，匮乏的医疗资源、艰苦的生存环境及一系列因营养失衡、体重不足，而引起的问题。同样，两者在普通医疗保健和诊断方面也没有太大的区别。
en:So, the program that we&#39;re involved in is something which we callDiagnostics for All, or zero-cost diagnostics.How do you provide medically relevant informationat as close as possible to zero cost? How do you do it?Let me just give you two examples.The rigors of military medicineare not so dissimilar from the third world —poor resources, a rigorous environment,a series of problems in lightweight, and things of this kind —and also not so different from the home healthcareand diagnostic system world.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:其实，今天我们在探讨的这项新技术是非常适合第三世界与发展中国家的。当然，就我个人而言，我认为它还有更广泛的应用。因为准确的疾病诊断信息对疾病的治疗是至关重要的。来 我们来看看这两张图片第一张图片是位于非洲的一家高级实验室第二张则是一位企业家他正一个集市里做着一些检验工作。或许这并没有传达任何有关医疗的信息。但同时这也说明他所作的并不是最有效的。
en:So, the technology that I want to talk aboutis for the third world, for the developing world,but it has, I think, much broader application,because information is so important in the healthcare system.So, you see two examples here.One is a lab that is actually a fairly high-end laboratory in Africa.The second is basically an entrepreneurwho is set up and doing who-knows-what in a table in a market.I don&#39;t know what kind of healthcare is delivered there.But it&#39;s not really what is probably most efficient.
时间： 1:51
zh-cn:我们这一项目的目标是什么？其实我们最为关注的问题是如何降低使用成本。从美国市场的角度来看，如果我们想要成功推广某一方案我们就必须要试图去降低它的成本。因为，无论这一方案是多么有效市场也不可能把10万美元的仪器费用，降至零。 这是不可能办到的。
en:What is our approach?And the way in which one typically approachesa problem of lowering cost,starting from the perspective of the United States,is to take our solution,and then to try to cut cost out of it.No matter how you do that,you&#39;re not going to start with a 100,000-dollar instrumentand bring it down to no-cost. It isn&#39;t going to work.
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:所以，我们采用了另外的方法来出奇制胜。有人问“世界上什么材料最廉价且适用于制造诊断疾病的仪器，同时能提供有用的信息，而且能增添功能？“ 对这一问题，我们的答案是纸张。现在大家看到的是，用纸做的诊断设备的模型它的宽度约为1厘米大小与我们的指甲差不多纸上的线条来自于一种聚合物（可与被测物质相互反应，随后产生一系列的物理、化学变化）这是纸质的，而纸是有吸附功能的。众所周知，纸啊，布料啊，可以吸收液体。例如，我们不小心把酒洒在了桌布上，那么桌布会一片狼藉。如果弄到了衬衣上，那么衬衣也被弄脏了。这些现象都反应了纸张的亲水特性。
en:So, the approach that we took was the other way around.To ask, &quot;What is the cheapest possible stuffthat you could make a diagnostic system out of,and get useful information,add function?&quot; And what we&#39;ve chosen is paper.What you see here is a prototypic device.It&#39;s about a centimeter on the side.It&#39;s about the size of a fingernail.The lines around the edges area polymer.It&#39;s made of paper and paper, of course, wicks fluid,as you know, paper, cloth — drop wine on the tablecloth,and the wine wicks all over everything.Put it on your shirt, it ruins the shirt.That&#39;s what a hydrophilic surface does.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:这也是我们仪器的运作原理。我们在试片的底部，滴入一滴液体在这个检测中，我们使用的是尿液滴入的尿液集中在这个小槽中，左边棕色部分显示尿液中葡萄糖的含量右边蓝色部分则显示尿液中蛋白质的含量随后将两部分的信息相结合，我们便获得初步所需的检测结果这就是一个用简单的纸张制成的分析仪的例子
en:So, in this device the idea is that you dripthe bottom end of it in a drop of,in this case, urine.The fluid wicks its way into those chambers at the top.The brown color indicates the amount of glucose in the urine,the blue color indicates the amount of protein in the urine.And the combination of those twois a first order shot at a number ofuseful things that you want.So, this is an example of a device made from a simple piece of paper.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:现在，我们来看看这类仪器是如何制成的？第一个问题，为什么选择纸质？图片中手指上呈现的也是类似刚才介绍过的分析仪选择用纸质的首要原因是“纸，无处不在”我们可以用纸做成餐巾纸，卫生纸等类似的许多其他纸类物品还有用纸来包装，等等。
en:Now, how simple can you make the production?Why do we choose paper?There&#39;s an example of the same thing on a finger,showing you basically what it looks like.One reason for using paper is that it&#39;s everywhere.We have made these kinds of devices usingnapkins and toilet paperand wraps, and all kinds of stuff.
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:所以，产能上基本没有限制。其次是“小小一片纸能完成许许多多的测试”待会，我会给大家讲解一堆纸张如何可能被用来进行10万个检验。
en:So, the production capability is there.The second is, you can put lots and lotsof tests in a very small place.I&#39;ll show you in a moment that the stack of paper therewould probably hold something like100,000 tests, something of that kind.
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:最后一个原因，大家往往比较容易忽略因为在发达国家我们不太使用针刺的方法来获取检验样本针刺法就是用针，刺穿皮肤获得检验样本，而残余样本会滞留在针里。如果我们抽取了某人的血液样本而那个人可能携带丙肝病毒的血液样本在检测后，样本是不可以随便遗弃的™这时，我们就会考虑，怎样才能安全有效的清理这些医疗垃圾?最为简单的方法就是焚烧所以，纸质的检测仪确实是一种实用的方法来采用
en:And then finally, a point that you don&#39;t think of so muchin developed world medicine:it eliminates sharps.And what sharps means is needles, things that stick.If you&#39;ve taken a sample of someone&#39;s bloodand the someone might have hepatitis C,you don&#39;t want to make a mistake and stick it in you.It just — you don&#39;t want to do that.So, how do you dispose of that? It&#39;s a problem everywhere.And here you simply burn it.So, it&#39;s a sort of a practical approachto starting on things.
时间： 4:24
zh-cn:好了 现在在座的各位都应该认同纸是非常好用的一种材料，对。这里的各位粗粗看来，一半都是女性相信大家，可能都经历过验孕测试。大多数的验孕仪，就像是左边图片中的那样学术上，我们称之为横向流动免疫测定仪。在这一检测中我们让可能含有HCG（绒毛膜促性腺激素，荷尔蒙的一种）的尿液渗透一张试纸来进行检测试纸上有两条线一条是用来显示试纸是否起作用的，另一条是用来检测是否怀孕的。
en:Now, you say, &quot;If paper is a good idea,other people have surely thought of it.&quot;And the answer is, of course, yes.Those half of you, roughly,who are women,at some point may have had a pregnancy test.And the most common of theseis in a device that looks like the thing on the left.It&#39;s something called a lateral flow immunoassay.In that particular test,urine either, containinga hormone called HCG, does or does notflow across a piece of paper.And there are two bars. One bar indicates that the test is working,and if the second bar shows up, you&#39;re pregnant.
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:这对于新时代而言，这是一项非常赞的发明。有关怀孕更重要的是你只能是怀孕了或是没有怀孕你不可能是不完全的怀孕了，或是正想着而变怀孕了，或者是其它一些中间状态。对于上述的问题，验孕试纸能给我们很好的回答但却无法给予更多的量化的信息
en:This is a terrific kind of test in a binary world,and the nice thing about pregnancyis either you are pregnant or you&#39;re not pregnant.You&#39;re not partially pregnant or thinking about being pregnantor something of that sort.So, it works very well there,but it doesn&#39;t work very well when you need more quantitative information.
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:图片中的这些，同样也是试纸。但，这里的尿样检测却有了其他的意义试纸上有许多的颜色， 在不同的情况下，显示不同的结果在这种复杂的情况下，我们如何办到？所以我们采用的办法就是，问我们自己如何实现纸质检测的构想？其实，这个问题只要用简单的工程方法即可解决原材料我们只用到了纸张然后使用一种叫做“蜡膜打印机”的新型打印机这种打印机和普通的打印机，在外表几乎没有区别。启动机器，加温蜡盒蜡油便会渗透到纸张内然后，你想要的测试纸就被打印出来了
en:There are also dipsticks,but if you look at the dipsticks, they&#39;re foranother kind of urine analysis.There are an awful lot of colors and things like that.What do you actually do about that in a difficult circumstance?So, the approach that we started with is to ask:Is it really practical to make things of this sort?And that problem is now, in a purely engineering way, solved.And the procedure that we have is simply to start with paper.You run it through a new kind of printer called a wax printer.The wax printer does what looks like printing.It is printing. You put that on, you warm it a little bit,the wax prints through so it absorbs into the paper,and you end up with the device that you want.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:这类打印机，现在的售价大概是每台800美元。我估算了一下，如果开足马力，连续工作24小时。那么，打印后的蜡纸可供一千万的试验用量所以，这个测试纸的构想很好的实现了这里我有一个具体的实例这是由12张纸组成的，可供8次试验的试纸仅用2秒钟制成十分的迅速这里还有一个非常重要的问题，因为我们用的是彩色打印机众所周知，彩色打印机可以打印出不同的颜色。待会，我再说明这个的具体用处。
en:The printers cost 800 bucks now.They&#39;ll make, we estimate that if you were to run them 24 hours a daythey&#39;d make about 10 million tests a year.So, it&#39;s a solved problem, that particular problem is solved.And there is an example of the kind of thing that you see.That&#39;s on a piece of 8 by 12 paper.That takes about two seconds to make.And so I regard that as done.There is a very important issue here,which is that because it&#39;s a printer,a color printer, it prints colors. That&#39;s what color printers do.I&#39;ll show you in a moment, that&#39;s actually quite useful.
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:大家可能联想到的第二个问题是，怎样分析、测算试验结果？解答前，我还要先澄清一个观点一直以来，大家想要分析的东西。其实，与我们想要获得的信息是有出入的。这类似于“发热确诊原因”的情形当病人来到诊所时,他们感到发烧，感到不适他们得了什么病呢？是肺结核？艾滋？还是普通感冒？这是个很复杂的问题其他的可能性，在此不做深究因为实在是有太多的可能性了但这些病因如艾滋、肝炎、疟疾肺结核，等等还有包括一些简单的因素，譬如疗程指导。
en:Now, the next question that you would like to askis: What would you like to measure? What would you like to analyze?And the thing which you&#39;d most like to analyze,we&#39;re a fair distance from.It&#39;s what&#39;s called &quot;fever of undiagnosed origin.&quot;Someone comes into the clinic,they have a fever, they feel bad. What do they have?Do they have T.B.? Do they have AIDS?Do they have a common cold?The triage problem. That&#39;s a hard problemfor reasons that I won&#39;t go through.There are an awful lot of things that you&#39;d like to distinguish among.But then there are a series of things:AIDS, hepatitis, malaria,TB, othersand simpler ones, such as guidance of treatment.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:还个因素比我们想象的要更复杂。我有一位朋友负责跨文化精神病学的研究。他对于病人不按时吃药的问题十分关注特别是，例如氨苯砜（抗麻风病的一种药物）及其他需要长期服用的药物他告诉我，在印度某个村庄流传着一个非常有意思的故事。某日，医生问：“你是否服用氨苯砜？”病人答：“是”医生问：“你是每天服用么？”病人答：“是”医生问：“你是否服用治疗了一个月？”病人答：“是”大家知道么，其实，那个病人真正的意思是他在早晨给自家的狗喂了30天剂量的氨苯砜♫病人说了实话。因为在不同的文化背景下，狗是人类的替代物对话中使用的，“今天”，“这个月”，“雨季前”也会引发很多的歧义这个故事主要告诉我们对于枯燥、乏味的沟通我们更需要明确交流双方的信息详情
en:Now even that&#39;s more complicated than you think.A friend of mine works in transcultural psychiatry,and he is interested in the question ofwhy people do and don&#39;t take their meds.So, Dapsone, or something like that,you have to take it for a while.He has a wonderful story of talking to a villager in Indiaand saying, &quot;Have you taken your Dapsone?&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot;&quot;Have you taken it every day?&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot;&quot;Have you taken if for a month?&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot;What the guy actually meantwas that he&#39;d fed a 30-day dose of Dapsoneto his dog, that morning.(Laughter)He was telling the truth. Becausein a different culture,the dog is a surrogate for you,you know, &quot;today,&quot; &quot;this month,&quot; &quot;since the rainy season&quot; —there are lots of opportunities for misunderstanding,and so an issue here is to,in some cases, to figure outhow to deal with matters that seem uninteresting,like compliance.
时间： 8:10
zh-cn:言归正传，我们来看一例典型的测试首先，扎破无名指，获得50微毫升的血液样本这么多的血液就已经足够因为，我们无需再使用常规的检测仪器。你一般不能很方便的操纵这么少量的样本但是，等一下我将具体演示我们是怎样办到的。好了，你只要提供一滴血液样本然后将血液擦拭在试纸仪器上仪器过滤了血液中的细胞，唯独让血清得以通过然后，你在试纸层上观察到了许多的颜色这些不用的颜色，显示了相应的疾病信息但是，这些颜色分析起来有些复杂。似乎，对你我而言，这些颜色看上去都挺正常的。同样，（在仪器推广使用前）我们都没有过多的精力进行一定的使用培训
en:Now, take a look at what a typical test looks like.Prick a finger, you get some blood,about 50 microliters.That&#39;s about all you&#39;re going to get,because you can&#39;t use the usual sort of systems.You can&#39;t manipulate it very well,although I&#39;ll show something about that in a moment.So, you take the drop of blood, no further manipulations,you put it on a little device,the device filters out the blood cells, lets the serum go through,and you get a series of colorsdown in the bottom there.And the colors indicate &quot;disease&quot; or &quot;normal.&quot;But even that&#39;s complicated,because to you, to me, colors might indicate &quot;normal,&quot;but, after all, we&#39;re all suffering fromprobably an excess of education.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:那么我们应如何处理需要定量分析的测试呢？我们和其他很多同行都想到当今有一种已非常的流行，而且已变成能几乎解决所有问题的办法，那就是手机。在我们的这个例子里，是有拍照功能的手机。在印度，每月大概有600万的拍照手机用户。所以，这个设想就很容易实现。一张纸质分析仪你涂抹上血样，等到出现检测的颜色。然后，拍照上传到中央实验室。你不必麻烦医生你只要找个能采取这些信息的人然后，在诊所里，一个医生，或一台智能的电脑来分析采集到的信息。这个办法的效果非常好，特别是当彩色打印机已打印出彩色线条，这些有颜色的线条能让测试过程一目了然。
en:What you do about something which requiresquantitative analysis?And so the solution that we and many other peopleare thinking about there,and at this point there is a dramatic flourish,and out comes the universal solution to everything these days,which is a cell phone. In this particular case, a camera phone.They&#39;re everywhere, six billion a month in India.And the idea is that what one does,is to take the device,you dip it, you develop the color,you take a picture, the picture goes to a central laboratory.You don&#39;t have to send out a doctor,you send out somebody who can just take the sample,and in the clinic either a doctor, or ideally a computerin this case, does the analysis.Turns out to work actually quite well, particularly when yourcolor printer has printed the color barsthat indicate how things work.
时间： 9:45
zh-cn:因此，我认为未来的医护人员并不一定是科班出生的医生只要他年满18周岁，无其他全职工作。在背包中有充足的试纸仪器；一把柳叶刀，可用于突发的采血需要；还有一把AK47就能解决所有的工作需要和人生安全的问题。
en:So, my view of the health care worker of the futureis not a doctor,but is an 18-year-old, otherwise unemployed,who has two things: He has a backpack full of these tests,and a lancet to occasionally take a blood sample,and an AK-47.And these are the things that get him through his day.
时间：10:05
zh-cn:这里还有个非常有趣的现象那就是人们如何通过错综复杂的电话系统传递有用的信息并得到回馈？图片中的火星漫步者已经成功的处理这一系列的问题如果你没有足够的带宽来进行测量，如何才能精确的分析在火星上的颜色呢？这个问题的答案并不难，但我不想在这里再说一遍了，我想用这个例子说明的是，用来解决这一问题的信息系统，早已存在了。
en:There&#39;s another very interesting connection here,and that is that what one wants to dois to pass through useful informationover what is generally a pretty awful telephone system.It turns out there&#39;s an enormous amount of informationalready available on that subject, which is the Mars rover problem.How do you get back an accurate view of the color on Marsif you have a really terrible bandwidth to do it with?And the answer is not complicatedbut it&#39;s one which I don&#39;t want to go through here,other than to say that the communication systemsfor doing this are really pretty well understood.
时间：10:39
zh-cn:还有一点，我需要指明的就是手机的计算功能不比你平时使用的台式机差多少。因为这是一个神奇的装置，它的巨大潜力才刚刚开启。我不确定，“一台电脑，一个孩子“的构想是否可以引起下一场大变革，但我手上拿的这个就像是未来的电脑，”电脑屏幕“已经在那里了，而且也有众多的使用者
en:Also, a fact which you may not knowis that the compute capability of this thingis not so different from the compute capabilityof your desktop computer.This is a fantastic device which is only beginning to be tapped.I don&#39;t know whether the idea of one computer, one childmakes any sense. Here&#39;s the computer of the future,because this screen is already there and they&#39;re ubiquitous.
时间：11:04
zh-cn:现在就让我来演示一下这些新仪器首先大家看到的是另一个厘米大小的分析仪。不同的颜色由不同的染料着色而成大家或许已经注意到一个非常有趣的现象似乎黄色的线条，在通过红色和蓝色的线段时，有些消失部分消失了这是怎么回事？我们是怎么让某种流体通过另一种流体的？答案是：“当然，没有”我们只是让一种的流体从其他流体的下面或是上面通过而已
en:All right now let me show you just a little bit about advanced devices.And we&#39;ll start by posing a little problem.What you see here is another centimeter-sized device,and the different colors are different colors of dye.And you notice something which might strike you asa little bit interesting,which is the yellow seems to disappear,get through the blue, and then get through the red.How does that happen? How do you make something flow through something?And, of course the answer is, &quot;You don&#39;t.&quot;You make it flow under and over.
时间：11:33
zh-cn:但现在问题是，你如果让一种流体流过一张纸的上面或是下面呢？具体的答案与细节原因并不复杂为了让信息更加精确，我们使用多张纸每张纸都有其自己的流体系统，然后，我们将其从纸上分开，再用双面胶，将他们粘在一起。这里用的双面胶就是我们日常用于地毯粘在地板上的那种。这样一来，液体便可以从这层流到那层。它们会沿着自己的轨道流动。自我分流
en:But now the question is: How do you make it flowunder and over in a piece of paper?The answer is that what you do,and the details are not terribly important here,is to make something more elaborate:You take several different layers of paper,each one containing its own little fluid system,and you separate them by pieces of,literally, double-sided carpet tape,the stuff you use to stick the carpets onto the floor.And the fluid will flow from one layer into the next.It distributes itself, flows through further holes,distributes itself.
时间：12:07
zh-cn:你们在右下角看到的是血液简单测试的样本血液样本从最高处流入，然后，自上而下从16个小孔中自我分流，直到试纸的最后一层。这个纸张分析仪，看起来有些像芯片，大概有2张纸张的厚度在这个例子中，我们只对检测的可重复性感兴趣。当然，这也是，帮助我们解决“发热本因”的基本原理。因为，这里的每一个点可以用来测试某一种疾病特定含有的一系列生物标记。然后这种检测在适当的时候下就会发生作用。
en:And what you see, at the lower right-hand side there,is a sample in which a single sampleof blood has been put on the top,and it has gone through and distributed itselfinto these 16 holes on the bottom,in a piece of paper — basically it looks like a chip,two pieces of paper thick.And in this particular case we were just interested inthe replicability of that.But that is, in principle, the way you solvethe &quot;fever of unexplained origin&quot; problem,because each one of those spots then becomesa test for a particular set of markersof disease,and this will work in due course.
时间：12:43
zh-cn:图片中，是另一个相对复杂的检测仪。这是一粒芯片你在它的四个角上，沾上检验样本后，这些液体便会流向中央。液体会自动分流，通过不同的小井或小孔，然后发生颜色变化。在这里， 我们只用到了纸张和地毯胶带。因此，它的成本仍然非常的低。所以，我们是可以大力推广这一仪器的。
en:Here is an example of a slightly more complicated device.There&#39;s the chip.You dip in a corner. The fluid goes into the center.It distributes itself out into these variouswells or holes, and turns color,and all done with paper and carpet tape.So, I think it&#39;s as low-costas we&#39;re likely to be able to come up and make things.
时间：13:04
zh-cn:最后，我还有些信息要与大家分享。这样有便于构想得更好实现第一是我们必须先将血液细胞与血清分离通常的做法是先用针刺获得血样然后，用离心机分离。这样的做法总有些繁琐但问题是，当我们没有电力，没有离心机时，该怎么办呢？让我们仔细的想一想事实上，大家看，答案就在这里。我们可以找个打蛋机，这东西到处都有。 然后，我们把里面的刀片去掉，然后，你取一只管子，把改装过的打蛋鸡贴在上面。然后我们把血输入管子，然后旋转谁都可以坐着然后慢慢的搅，慢慢的使血清分离。
en:Now, I have one last, two last little storiesto tell you, in finishing off this business.This is one: One of the things that one does occasionallyneed to do is to separate blood cells from serum.And the question was,here we do it by taking a sample,we put it in a centrifuge,we spin it, and you get blood cells out. Terrific.What happens if you don&#39;t have an electricity,and a centrifuge, and whatever?And we thought for a while of how you might do thisand the way, in fact, you do it is what&#39;s shown here.You get an eggbeater,which is everywhere, and you saw off a blade,and then you take tubing,and you stick it on that. You put the blood in, you spin it —somebody sits there and spins it.It works really, really well.
时间：13:50
zh-cn:最后，我们声称我们研究了打蛋器的物理和可自我调正的试管，和其他一些类似的东西，我们把这些写成稿子发给了一个杂志社我们还很自豪的标榜文章的标题“打蛋器式的血清分离仪”♫我们把文章寄出去后，却收到拒绝发表的通知。我打电话给编辑问道：“怎么回事？这怎么可能？”编辑带着巨大的藐视回答道：“我已经读了这篇报道。但是我们不会发表的，因为我们只会发表科学。”这是一个非常重要的问题。因为作为一个社会我们必须得想想什么是最重要的。如果我们所做的仅仅是在一些物理期刊上发发文章那么社会就会出现很大的问题。
en:And we sat down, we did the physics of eggbeatersand self-aligning tubes and all the rest of that kind of thing,sent it off to a journal.We were very proud of this, particularly the title,which was &quot;Eggbeater as Centrifuge.&quot;(Laughter)And we sent it off, and by return mail it came back.I called up the editor and I said,&quot;What&#39;s going on? How is this possible?&quot;The editor said, with enormous disdain,&quot;I read this.And we&#39;re not going to publish it, because we onlypublish science.&quot;And it&#39;s an important issuebecause it means that we have to,as a society,think about what we value.And if it&#39;s just papers and phys. rev. letters,we&#39;ve got a problem.
时间：14:31
zh-cn:这里还有个关于分光光度计的例子分光光度计是用来测量光度吸收率的一种仪器。这一仪器使用的前提是，你需要有一个以接近1000赫兹闪动的光源和另一个用来检测频率在1000赫兹光波的光源。然后你即使在白天也可以使用这个仪器但是，它的功能和造价大概是10万美元的设备是几乎等同的它的成本仅50美元。我们甚至可以把成本变成只有50分，要是我们一心想办到的话。可为什么没有人做呢？答案是“在这样的资本世界中，我们这样做怎能获利？”这的确是有意思的问题。
en:Here is another example of something which is —this is a little spectrophotometer.It measures the absorption of light in a sampleThe neat thing about this is, you have light source that flickerson and off at about 1,000 hertz,another light source that detects that light at 1,000 hertz,and so you can run this system in broad daylight.It performs about equivalentlyto a system that&#39;s in the order of100,000 dollars.It costs 50 dollars. We can probably make it for 50 cents,if we put our mind to it.Why doesn&#39;t somebody do it? And the answer is,&quot;How do you make a profit in a capitalist system, doing that?&quot;Interesting problem.
时间：15:12
zh-cn:最后，我们来回顾一下。今天所讨论的是一个工程问题。我们也问到了什么是科学的统一思想？我们也决定我们应该想这不仅仅是成本控制的问题，还是简易性的问题。简易性是一个简单的词。但是我们得仔细想想简易性到底意味着什么。我知道简易性，但却不知道它的深层含义。
en:So, let me finish by sayingthat we&#39;ve thought about this as a kind of engineering problem.And we&#39;ve asked: What is the scientific unifying idea here?And we&#39;ve decided that we should think about thisnot so much in terms of cost,but in terms of simplicity.Simplicity is a neat word. And you&#39;ve got to think aboutwhat simplicity means.I know what it is but I don&#39;t actually know what it means.
时间：15:37
zh-cn:我因为太感兴趣了，我集合了一些不同的人群一同探讨在与我沟通的一群人中有位来自麻省理工学院的孩子他非常的聪明完全可以被视为纯正的天才我们用了一天的时间来讨论什么是纯粹、简易。我也想告诉大家我的有关这一深刻的科学思想的见解。♫所以就这么说，大家姑且能从我的演讲中得到一些回报吧。谢谢 非常感谢♫
en:So, I actually was interested enough in this to put togetherseveral groups of people.And the most recent involved a couple of people at MIT,one of them being an exceptionally bright kidwho is one of the very few people I would think ofwho&#39;s an authentic genius.We all struggled for an entire day to think about simplicity.And I want to give you the answer of thisdeep scientific thought.(Laughter)So, in a sense, you get what you pay for.Thank you very much.(Laughter)
