时间： 0:14
zh-cn:大多数的演讲你在前几天那些美妙的日子听到的都是来自一些很有特点的人就是他们都已经思考过一些事他们都是这方面的专家，他们知道这个领域的现状你们都知道今天我要谈的这个话题的确，你知道简洁是什么你也知道复杂是什么问题是，我不知道我接下来要做的就是和你们交流一下我对这个话题不清楚的地方
en:Most of the talksthat you&#39;ve heard in the last several fabulous dayshave been from people who have the characteristicthat they have thought about something,they are experts, they know what&#39;s going on.All of you know about the topicthat I&#39;m supposed to talk about.That is, you know what simplicity is,you know what complexity is.The trouble is, I don&#39;t.And what I&#39;m going to do is share with youmy ignorance on this subject.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:我希望你来读这些因为我们过一会将重新回到这个问题上来这段引文来自传说中的Potter Stewart关于色情文学的观点我来读一下重要的细节简化的描述，赤裸裸的色情可能我从来都不能给它下一个容易理解的定义。但是我一看见这句话我就明白它的意思我们一会就会重新回到这里
en:I want you to read this,because we&#39;re going to come back to it in a moment.The quote is fromthe fabled Potter Stewartopinion on pornography.And let me just read it,the important details here:&quot;Shorthand description, [&#39;hardcore pornography&#39;];and perhaps I could never succeed in intelligibly defining it.But I know it when I see it.&quot;I&#39;m going to come back to that in a moment.
时间： 1:13
zh-cn:那，什么事简洁？举一些例子作为开头可能会好一些。一个咖啡杯。我们不去想它们但是这可能比去想更有意义。咖啡杯是个物件，是的它是一个容器，是的，还带一个把手，没错。把手可以使你拿起它当咖啡杯里装满热的液体时，嗯~为什么这很重要？因为，这能让你喝咖啡。但是，提醒一下，咖啡是热的，液体是无菌的。这样你就不大可能会感染霍乱。所以咖啡杯，或者是一个有把手的杯子是被人类社会应用的一种工具来维护公众健康剪刀成就你的衣服。眼镜让你看清东西防止你被猎豹吃掉或者被汽车撞到最后，书籍，是你们的教育。
en:So, what is simplicity?It&#39;s good to start with some examples.A coffee cup — we don&#39;t think about coffee cups,but it&#39;s much more interesting than one might think —a coffee cup is a device,which has a container and a handle.The handle enables you to hold itwhen the container is filled with hot liquid.Why is that important?Well, it enables you to drink coffee.But also, by the way, the coffee is hot,the liquid is sterile;you&#39;re not likely to get cholera that way.So the coffee cup, or the cup with a handle,is one of the tools used by societyto maintain public health.Scissors are your clothes,glasses enable you to see thingsand keep you from being eaten by cheetahsor run down by automobiles,and books are, after all, your education.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:但是还有另外一类简单的东西它们也很重要在功能上很简单但是它们的构造上上却一点都不简单。这里有两个例子一个是手机，我们每天都用它依赖于一个复杂系统有一些特性与我朋友Benoit Mandelbrot说的非常的不同但是非常有趣另一个例子，当然，是避孕药一个非常简单的方式它却从根本上改变了社会的结构通过改变女人在社会中的角色通过给她们提供选择是否怀孕生子
en:But there&#39;s another class of simple things,which are also very important.Simple in function,but not at all simple in how they&#39;re constructed.And the two here are just examples.One is the cellphone, which we use every day.And it rests on a complexity,which has some characteristicsvery different from those that my friendBenoit Mandelbrot discussed,but are very interesting.And the other, of course, is a birth control pill,which, in a very simple way,fundamentally changed the structure of societyby changing the role of women in itby providing to themthe opportunity to make reproductive choices.
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:我认为有两种方式来看待这个词而且我在这里曲解Potter Stewart的引言通过举例说我们可以想一些事情一些从剪刀跨度到手机的各种方式从网络到避孕药通过谈他们是简单的功能是简单的然后我们认识到什么事简洁当我们看到的时候
en:So, there are two ways of thinking about this word, I think.And here I&#39;ve corruptedthe Potter Stewart quotationby saying that we can think about something —which spans all the way from scissorsto the cell phone,Internet and birth control pills —by saying that they&#39;re simple,the functions are simple,and we recognize what that simplicity iswhen we see it.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:又或，可能有另一种方式来解释即根据什么来考虑这个问题如果你与思想哲学家交往被称作茶壶问题茶壶问题，我来解释一下假设你看见一个茶壶并且这个茶壶装满了热水然后你问了个问题为什么水是热的？这是个简单的问题就像：什么事简洁？其中一个答案可能是因为水分子的动能很高使得他们之间迅速碰撞这是个物理学要讨论的问题第二个答案可能是因为它仍然在点着火的火炉上那是个时间上的论点第三个解释是，我想要热水来泡茶那是个内在意识的问题然而，来自道德哲学家的答案即第四可能是，那是上帝对宇宙计划的一部分所有的这些答案都是可能的
en:Or there may be another way of doing it,which is to think about the problem in terms of what —if you associate with moral philosophers —is called the teapot problem.The teapot problem I&#39;ll pose this way.Suppose you see a teapot,and the teapot isfilled with hot water.And you then ask the question:Why is the water hot?And that&#39;s a simple question.It&#39;s like, what is simplicity?One answer would be:because the kinetic energy of the water molecules is highand they bounce against things rapidly —that&#39;s a kind of physical science argument.A second argument would be:because it was sitting on a stove with the flame on —that&#39;s an historical argument.A third is that I wanted hot waterfor tea —that&#39;s an intentional argument.And, since this is coming from a moral philosopher,the fourth would be that it&#39;s part of God&#39;s plan for the universe.All of these are possibilities.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:问题是，你陷入了麻烦当你问一个问题只能有一个答案然而这一个问题实际上是许多的问题这些问题有不同的含义却能用相同的文字描述问题，什么事简洁？我认为应归于类别范畴什么是科学的国度？完整，复杂是高端的进化我们有很多关于复杂是什么的有趣信息简洁，由于它有些模糊所以几乎不能达到至少在学术界很难实现
en:The point is that you get into troublewhen you ask a single questionwith a single box for an answer,in which that single question actually is many questionswith quite different meanings,but with the same words.Asking, &quot;What is simplicity?&quot; I think falls in that category.What is the state of science?And, interestingly, complexityis very highly evolved.We have a lot of interesting informationabout what complexity is.Simplicity, for reasonsthat are a little bit obscure,is almost not pursued,at least in the academic world.
时间： 4:49
zh-cn:我们的一些学者—我也是学者我们喜欢复杂我们可以写关于复杂的论文关于复杂有趣的是在许多方面它从根本上难以把握因此，你不必为结果负责简洁—-你们大家喜欢的早上你的搅拌机来做搅拌机该做的但绝不是爆炸或者演奏贝多芬曲目你对这些东西的局限性不感兴趣你感兴趣的是这个系统的许多好处去思考一下复杂和紧急情况将会有很多好处而去想简单就没有那么什么好处其中我想做的一件事是是帮助你完成一项重要的工作这项工作你可能没有意识到呢经常做那就是理解在晚宴中怎样坐在物理学家旁边怎样和他交谈我想让你把焦点集中在这两个词上复杂 和紧急因为它们会让你开始一段对话然后幻想其它事情
en:We academics — I am an academic —we love complexity.You can write papers about complexity,and the nice thing about complexity isit&#39;s fundamentally intractable in many ways,so you&#39;re not responsible for outcomes. (Laughter)Simplicity — all of you really would likeyour Waring Blender in the morningto make whatever a Waring Blender does,but not explode or play Beethoven.You&#39;re not interested in the limits of these things.So what one is interested inhas a lot to do with the rewards of the system.And there&#39;s a lot of rewards in thinkingabout complexity and emergence,not so much in thinking about simplicity.One of the things I want to dois to help you with a very important task —which you may not know that you have very often —which is to understandhow to sit next to a physicist at a dinner partyand have a conversation. (Laughter)And the words that I would like you to focus onare complexity and emergence,because these will enable you to start the conversationand then daydream about other things.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:好了，观察下这件事什么是复杂的？什么是紧急的？事实上我们已经有了一个很好的关于复杂的定义它是一个系统，就像交通有很多的组成部分这些部分整合在一起形成一个整体有汽车和司机。他们消耗能量结果是，无论何时，你拥有那个系统奇怪的事情都会发生可能身处洛杉矶的你知道这个比任何一个都好这里还有个例子我举这个例子是因为这是个现代科学中一个真实而重要的例子你不可能读过。你不会想去读。但是这只是发生在体内每个细胞中的化学反应的一小部分这就像你看到的交通关于细胞让人不可思议的是它确确实实与其它细胞保持稳定的工作协同关系但是我们不知道原因任何告诉你我们理解生命人请走开
en:All right, what is complexity in this view of things,and what is emergence?We have, actually, a pretty good working definition of complexity.It is a system, like traffic,which has components.The components interact with one another.These are cars and drivers. They dissipate energy.It turns out that, whenever you have that system,weird stuff happens,and you in Los Angelesprobably know this better than anyone.Here&#39;s another example,which I put up becauseit&#39;s an example of really important current science.You can&#39;t possibly read that. It&#39;s not intended that you read it,but that&#39;s a tiny partof the chemical reactions going onin each of your cells at any given moment.And it&#39;s like the traffic that you see.The amazing thing about the cell is thatit actually does maintain a fairly stableworking relationship with other cells,but we don&#39;t know why.Anyone who tells you that we understand life,walk away.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:接着，让我把这件事降到最简单的水平我们曾经收到Bill Gates 的来信我们所有的人，在某种程度上，学习Bill Gates非常好！你学习到了你能学到的东西然后又有一些其它方面的东西你可以学你努力的学习那是Bono,这是Bono但是然后，假如你了解了你可以了解的关于这两样东西的所有细节又把他们总结在一起那么，你能对这种结合说些什么呢？答案是：并不多！那就是复杂现在，想象一下一个城市一个社会的建立很明显，你发现了一个有趣的问题
en:And let me reduce this to the simplest level.We&#39;ve heard from Bill Gates recently.All of us, to some extent, studythis thing called a Bill Gates.Terrific. You learn everything you can about that.And then there&#39;s another kind of thing that you might study,and you study that hard.That&#39;s a Bono, this is a Bono.But then, if you know everything you can know about those two things,and you put them together,what can you say about this combination?The answer is, not a lot.And that&#39;s complexity.Now, imagine building that up to a city, or to a society,and you&#39;ve got, obviously, an interesting problem.
时间： 7:30
zh-cn:好的，现在让我给你们举个简单的例子详细说明然后我想介绍一个词我想这个词很有用就是堆积我要简单的堆叠一下这是很典型的它简单又可行我可以用它来组合东西或者说我要用简单的东西来实现可靠性，可预言性和可重复性我想用一个例子，互联网因为它是个特别好的关于堆积简单的例子我们就称之为复杂系统但是也意味着其它
en:All right, so let me give you an exampleof simplicityof a particular kind.And I want to introduce a wordthat I think is very useful,which is stacking.And I&#39;m going to use stacking for a kind of simplicitythat has the characteristicthat it is so simpleand so reliablethat I can build things with it.Or I&#39;m going to use simple to meanreliable, predictable, repeatable.And I&#39;m going to use as an example the Internet,because it&#39;s a particularly good exampleof stacked simplicity.We call it a complex system, which it is,but it&#39;s also something else.
时间： 8:13
zh-cn:互联网起始于数学起始于二进制法则如果你看下底部的菜单有我们熟知的阿拉伯数字1到10等在二进制中，1用001表示7用0111表示问题是：为什么二进制比阿拉伯数字简单？答案是，简单如果你举起三个手指，你可以很容易的数清但是如果你举起这个就很难这是7它的优点是这可能是表示数字最简单的方式其它都是复杂的你可能会犯错在读取时很模糊关于二进制还有很多好的方面因此它非常非常简单只要你知道怎么去读现在如果你想表示一下二进制的和1你需要一个工具想象一下你生活中是用二进制表示的东西其中一个是电灯开关它们可以是开或关，这是二元的
en:The Internet starts with mathematics,it starts with binary.And if you look at the list of things on the bottom,we are familiar with the Arabic numbersone to 10 and so on.In binary, one is 0001,seven is 0111.The question is: Why is binarysimpler than Arabic?And the answer is, simply,that if I hold up three fingers, you can count that easily,but if I hold up this,it&#39;s sort of hard to say that I just did seven.The virtue of binary is that it&#39;s the simplest possible wayof representing numbers.Anything else is more complicated.You can catch errors with it,it&#39;s unambiguous in its reading,there are lots of good things about binary.So it is very, very simpleonce you learn how to read it.Now, if you like to representthis zero and one of binary,you need a device.And think of things in your lifethat are binary,one of them is light switches.They can be on and off. That&#39;s binary.
时间： 9:15
zh-cn:我们都知道，墙体开关，会失败但是我们的高分子物理学家朋友们可以做到，在50多年前用一种很好的设备，就是钟罩它是一种晶体管晶体管于墙体开关没有区别它也是开或关但是，它做到这一点不用动任何一部分基本上，可以保持很长一段时间，不会失效因此，第二简单的是晶体管和互联网因此，既然晶体管如此简单你可以将大量的晶体管组合在一起组合在一起后，你可以组成完整的集成电路集成电路可能存在于这些芯片之中像是十亿个晶体管它们每次都必须以完美的状态工作这是另一个层次的简洁并且,实际上,集成电路确实是简单的就它们总体上运转的很好来说
en:Now wall switches, we all know, fail.But our friends who are condensed matter physicistsmanaged to come up, some 50 years ago,with a very nice device, shown under that bell jar,which is a transistor.A transistor is nothing more than a wall switch.It turns things on and off,but it does so without moving partsand it doesn&#39;t fail, basically, for a very long period of time.So the second layer of simplicitywas the transistor in the Internet.So, since the transistor is so simple,you can put lots of them together.And you put lots of them together and you come withsomething called integrated circuits.And a current integrated circuitmight have in each one of these chipssomething like a billion transistors,all of which have to work perfectly every time.So that&#39;s the next layer of simplicity,and, in fact, integrated circuitsare really simple in the sense that they,in general, work really well.
时间：10:11
zh-cn:用集成电路,你可以制造出手机你们早已习惯于手机在大部分时间都能正常工作在波士顿,波士顿与纳米比亚有些相似在她们的手机信号覆盖方面所以我们还并不总是那么适应只是一段时间但是,实际上,如果你有手机你现在可以看这位美女她像是个纳米比亚人并且她非常激动尽管她没有一个麻省理工电子工程硕士学位但她还是能够修改她的手机使它能以某种滑稽的方式充电放下手机，我们来看看因特网这是一幅大洲之间数据流量的图图中非常亮的两块区域分别是美国和欧洲
en:With integrated circuits, you can build cellphones.You all are accustomed to having your cellphones workthe large majority of the time.In Boston ... Boston is a little bit like Namibiain its cell phone coverage, (Laughter)so that we&#39;re not accustomed to that all the time,but some of the time.But, in fact, if you have cell phones,you can now go to this nice ladywho&#39;s somewhere like Namibia,and who is extremely happy with the factthat although she does not havean master&#39;s degree inelectrical engineering from MIT,she&#39;s nonetheless able to hack her cell phoneto get power in some funny way.And from that comes the Internet.And this is a map of bitflows across the continent.The two blobs that are light in the middle thereare the United States and Europe.
时间：10:57
zh-cn:然后，我们回到有关简单的讨论我们现在有Google我认为那是最伟大的点子之一在它简洁的页面中Google称可以使用户访问全世界的信息然而，要点是这个非凡的简单创意是基于若干简单的底层而每层叠加起来就成为了一个复杂的东西但就其可靠程度而言它自身也确实是简单的
en:And then back to simplicity again.So here we have what I think is one of the great ideas,which is Google.Which, in this simple portalmakes the claimthat it makes accessibleall of the world&#39;s information.But the point is thatthat extraordinary simple idearests on layers of simplicityeach compounded into a complexitythat is itself simple,in the sense that it is completely reliable.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:好了，让我来总结一下总共有四个陈述一个例子和两条格言我想到了一些特征它们有助于我们思考简洁的事物首先，它们是可预测的它们的行为是可以预测的这样，简洁的事物具有的一个很好的特征就是你通常知道它会去做什么所以说，简洁和可预测是简单事物的特点第二点，是源于实际的一点它们要便宜如果你手中的东西足够廉价人们就会去寻找它们的用途即使它看起来相当原始比如石头你可以用石头建成教堂你只需要知道它用来做什么你将石头削成砖，然后你将它们一个一个垒起来然后它们就能承重
en:All right, let me then finish offwith four general statements,an example and two aphorisms.The characteristics, which I thinkare useful to think about for simple things:First, they are predictable.Their behavior is predictable.Now, one of the nice characteristicsof simple thingsis you know what it&#39;s going to do, in general.So simplicity and predictabilityare characteristics of simple things.The second is, and this is a real world statement,they&#39;re cheap.If you have things that are cheap enough,people will find uses for them,even if they seem very primitive.So, for example, stones.You can build cathedrals out of stones,you just have to know what it does.You carve them in blocks and then youpile them on top of one another,and they support weight.
时间：12:24
zh-cn:所以说，它们要有一定的功能，功能要可以想得到此外开销也必须低廉这就意味着必须要有良好的性能或者价值成本然后，我会提出最后一个要素即它们能作为，或者有潜力成为构成的要素那就是说，你可以堆砌它们所说的堆砌可以是这样的，也可以是那样的再或者意味着任意的n维空间但是如果你有些具有某种功能的东西而且它非常便宜人们就会找到新的方法将它们组合来制作出新的事物廉价、有一定功能并且可靠的东西解放了人们的创造力那些人之后制作出你想象不到的事物若是基于第一个晶体管肯定将没有办法预测因特网它就是不可能以上就是这些要素
en:So there has to be function, the function has to be predictableand the cost has to be low.What that means isthat you have to have a high performanceor value for cost.And then I would proposeas this last componentthat they serve, or have the potential to serve,as building blocks.That is, you can stack them.And stack can mean this way, or it can mean this way,or it can mean in some arbitrary n-dimensional space.But if you have something that has a function,and it&#39;s really cheap,people will find new ways of putting it togetherto make new things.Cheap, functional, reliable thingsunleash the creativity of peoplewho then build stuff that you could not imagine.There&#39;s no way of predicting the Internetbased on the first transistor.It just is not possible.So these are the components.
时间：13:20
zh-cn:现在我想展示的这个例子是来源于我们进行的工作我们致力于对第三世界提供医疗援助并且我们在这件事情上想完成的是尽可能找到一种几乎是零费用的医疗诊断方法嗯，一个人怎么才能做到这些？第三世界没有电力那里没有资金，没有医疗能力我不想用过程的细节浪费大家的时间但在右下角你们可以看到我们现有的方案那是一个很小的纸芯片上面印了一些东西印刷技术与印制漫画书的相同正是这项技术为我们提供了灵感你滴一滴液体，对于这个纸芯片来说要滴上尿液它被吸上去，进入这些小分支你要知道，不需要其它能量它会变色。在这个特定情况下正在看的是肾功能读数另外，由于这个地方的医疗工作者通常是18岁左右，手拿AK-47碰巧没有工作，并且愿意四处转转然后做这类事情他可以用自己的手机拍张照片而后将照片送回有医生的地方这样医生就能看到结果
en:Now, the exampleis something that I want to give youfrom the work that we ourselves do.We are very interested indelivering health care in the developing world,and one of the things that we wish to do in this particular businessis to find a way of doing medical diagnosisat as close to zero costas we can manage.So, how does one do that?This is a world in which there&#39;s no electricity,there&#39;s no money, there&#39;s no medical competence.And I don&#39;t want to spend your time in going through the details,but in the lower right-hand corner,you see an example of the kind of thing that we have.It&#39;s a little paper chip.It has a few things printed on itusing the same technologythat you use for making comic books,which was the inspiration for this particular idea.And you put a drop, in this case, of urine at the bottom.It wicks its way up into these little branches.You know, no power required.It turns colors. In this particular case,you&#39;re reading kidney function.And, since the health care workerof much of this part of the worldis an 18 year-old with an AK-47,who happens to be out of work and is willingto go around and do this sort of thing,he can take a picture of it with his cellphone,send the picture back to where there is a doctor,and the doctor can look at it.
时间：14:40
zh-cn:所以说，你所做的就是，用一种在任何地方都能用上的技术做出一种极为廉价的装置并且做成这种样子使它非常非常可靠如果我们能成功做到这些如果我们可以加入更多功能它将会是可以堆叠的那就是说，如果我们可以使一两样东西中基本的技术生效那它将可以适用于各种不同的个人条件下因此，也就具有延伸的潜力无论是在水平、纵深方向不得不说，我的兴趣一部分是我希望，或者说的客气一点改变，或者去除美国医疗体制中资本就够的本质部分我认为那是从根本上坏掉的
en:So what you&#39;ve done is to take a technology,which is available everywhere,make a device, which is extremely cheap,and make it in such a fashionthat it is very, very reliable.If we can pull this off,if we can build more function,it will be stackable.That is to say, if we can make the basic technologyof one or two things work,it will be applicable to a very, verylarge variety of human conditions,and hence, extendable in bothvertical and horizontal directions.Part of my interest in this, I have to say,is that I would like to — how do I put this politely? —change the way, or maybe eviscerate,the capital structure of the U.S. health care system,which I think is fundamentally broken.
时间：15:25
zh-cn:让我以—（掌声）
en:So, let me close —(Applause)
时间：15:30
zh-cn:让我以这两句警语作为结束其中一条来自爱因斯坦他说，“所有的事物都要做到尽量简洁但又不过分简单。”我认为那是思考这个问题非常好的方式如果你从简单的东西里去除太多，你就失去了它的功能你必须要做到低开销但是你还需要功能所以说你不可以做得过于简单第二条是设计的事情它并不是那么相关，但它却是很好的叙述
en:Let me close with my two aphorisms.One of them is from Mr. Einstein,and he says, &quot;Everything should be madeas simple as possible, but not simpler.&quot;And I think that&#39;s a very good way of thinking about the problem.If you take too much outof something that&#39;s simple, you lose function.You have to have low cost,but you also have to have a function.So you can&#39;t make it too simple.And the second is a design issue,and it&#39;s not directly relevant, but it&#39;s a nice statement.
时间：15:57
zh-cn:这是de Saint-Exupery说的他说道：“你知道你的设计达到完美不是因为你没有什么可以加上去，而是当你当你不能再去除些什么的时候。”这句话的方向当然是对的这是一个人可以用到并以之为开始的就我所想，以简洁为目的的精简这解释不了为什么说蒙德里安的画比梵高的好还是坏或者是比梵高的画简单还是复杂而且也没有解释莫扎特的音乐是不是比巴赫的简单
en:This is by de Saint-Exupery.And he says, &quot;You know you&#39;ve achieved perfection in design,not when you have nothing more to add,but when you have nothing more to take away.&quot;And that certainly is going in the right direction.So, what I think one can begin to dowith this kind ofcut at the word simplicity,which doesn&#39;t cover Brancusi,it doesn&#39;t answer the question ofwhy Mondrian is better or worseor simpler or less simpler than Van Gogh,and certainly doesn&#39;t address the questionof whether Mozart is simpler than Bach.
时间：16:34
zh-cn:但它确实明确了一点就是，在某种意义上区分开制造的人和考虑这些东西的人这意味着，提出“如何才能制造出尽可能简单尽可能廉价，尽量能发挥机能并能尽可能自由联系的东西”有了科学意义如果我们在技术中加入这种简洁然后将其传给你们你们离开之后就可以利用它做各种精彩纷呈的东西
en:But it does make a point —which is one which, in a sense,differentiates the real world of people who make things,and the world of people who think about things,which is, there is an intellectual meritto asking: How do we make thingsas simple as we can,as cheap as we can, as functional as we canand as freely interconnectable as we can?If we make that kind of simplicity in our technologyand then give it to you guys,you can go off and do all kinds of fabulous things with it.
时间：17:05
zh-cn:非常感谢
en:Thank you very much.
时间：17:07
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:16
zh-cn:Chris Anderson: 问几个问题你能想象一下有关简单的科学可以切中要害，不管你查看的是什么样系统，比如说，财政系统或者法律系统、医疗系统，再比如说若是这些系统到了危险的境地或者因为某些原因无法工作这是我们应该简化的方法么？
en:Chris Anderson: Quick question.So can you picturethat a science of simplicitymight get to the point whereyou could look out at various systems —say a financial system or a legal system, health system — and say,&quot;That has got to the point of dangeror dysfunctionality for the following reasons,and this is how we might simplify it&quot;?
时间：17:36
zh-cn:George Whitesides:是的，我想你可以，因为如果你查看系统的组成部分并且检查它们的脆弱度，或者是它们的牢固度你没准可以在那些基础之上建立起一种风险评估方式
en:George Whitesides: Yes, I think you could. Because if you lookat the components from which the system is madeand examine their fragility, or their stability,you can probably build a kind of risk assessment based on that basis.
时间：17:46
zh-cn:CA:你开始做这些了么？我的意思是，对于医疗系统，你有一种在财政方面的根本方法但是对于这个系统自身呢？
en:CA: Have you started to do that?I mean, with the health system, you got a sort ofradical solution on the cost side,but in terms of the system itself?
时间：17:54
zh-cn:GW:厄，没有我怎么去把它变得简单，不可能
en:GW: Well, no.How do I put that simply? No.
时间：17:58
zh-cn:CA:这是个简单、有力的回答。 GW:是的
en:CA: That was a simple, powerful answer. GW: Yes.
时间：18:01
zh-cn:CA:那么，对于你所掌握的诊断技术而言什么时候，并且你认为什么时候这种诊断方式会规模壮大
en:CA: So, in terms ofthat diagnostic technology that you&#39;ve got,where is that, and when do you see thatmaybe getting rolled out to scale.
时间：18:09
zh-cn:GW:那即将出现，我的意思是，那个系统开始工作并且我们必须找出怎么去制造出它们，并做这一类的事情但是最基本的技术起了作用
en:GW: That&#39;s coming out soon. I mean, the systems work,and we have to find out how to manufacture them and do things of this kind,but the basic technology works.
时间：18:16
zh-cn:CA:你已经建立了一家公司来—GW:是一个基金会，基金会，非盈利的
en:CA: You&#39;ve got a company set up to ...GW: A foundation, a foundation. Not-for-profit.
时间：18:21
zh-cn:CA:好的，非常感谢您的演讲，谢谢
en:CA: All right. Well, thank you so much for your talk. Thank you. (Applause)
