时间： 0:16
zh-cn:在欧洲及亚洲中部大约有一百万的孩子住在大型的住宿机构，也就是通常说的孤儿院在很多人的想象中，孤儿院是是一个拥有良好的环境在照顾孩子们的地方而另一些人更了解哪儿住宿环境的人，认为那是一个十分邪恶的地方，但是不可缺少。毕竟，还有哪个地方我们能接纳许许多多的孩子，却连一个家长都没有呢？
en:Across Europe and Central Asia,approximately one million children live in largeresidential institutions, usually known as orphanages.Most people imagine orphanages as a benign environmentthat care for children.Others know more about the living conditions there,but still think they&#39;re a necessary evil.After all, where else would we put all of those childrenwho don&#39;t have any parents?
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:但是60年来的调查已经表明把孩子从他们的家庭中分离并将他们送到大型机构会严重的损害孩子们的健康及成长，尤其是对那些小婴儿。众所周知，孩子们刚刚出生的时候肌肉还没有完全成长，大脑也没有发育成熟。在刚出生的三年里，大脑逐渐成长直到成熟，而其中的大部分成长发生在刚出生的六个月。大脑逐渐的成长并开始对各种经验及刺激产生反应。每当孩子们学到一些新的东西——用眼睛关注它，去模仿一个动作或者一个表情，起捡起某些东西，说话或是坐起——大脑中就建立起了新的突触连接。新生儿的父母对孩子们快速的学习感到震惊。他们对孩子们的聪明感到惊奇而愉悦。他们将自己的快乐传递给孩子们，而孩子们则回报一微笑，并且产生一种想要学会更多更多的渴望。这种父母子女之间的建立起的强大的联系为身体的，社会的，语言的，认知的以及精神的成长添砖加瓦。也为未来的朋友关系，伙伴关系以及与他们自己的孩子之间的关系建立的模型。这在许多的家庭中自然的发生我们甚至都不会注意这些。我们中的许多人并没有意识到这对人的成长，或者放大来说，对于一个健康的社会的发展是多么的重要。只有当这些走上歧途时，我们才会发现家庭对于孩子们的重要性。
en:But 60 years of research has demonstratedthat separating children from their familiesand placing them in large institutionsseriously harms their health and development,and this is particularly true for young babies.As we know, babies are bornwithout their full muscle development,and that includes the brain.During the first three years of life, the brain growsto its full size, with most of that growth taking placein the first six months. The brain developsin response to experience and to stimulation.Every time a young baby learns something new —to focus its eyes,to mimic a movement or a facial expression,to pick something up, to form a word or to sit up —new synaptic connections are being built in the brain.New parents are astonished by the rapidity of this learning.They are quite rightly amazed and delighted by their children&#39;s cleverness.They communicate their delight to their children,who respond with smiles,and a desire to achieve more and to learn more.This forming of the powerful attachment between child and parentprovides the building blocks for physical, social,language, cognitive and psychomotor development.It is the model for all future relationships with friends,with partners and with their own children.It happens so naturally in most familiesthat we don&#39;t even notice it. Most of us are unawareof its importance to human development and, by extension,to the development of a healthy society.And it&#39;s only when it goes wrong that we start to realizethe importance of families to children.
时间： 2:22
zh-cn:在1993年的秋天，我有了第一个机会在较大尺度上亲眼目睹了父母的缺失以及制度化对于孩子们的影响。我们中或许还有人记得一则新闻关于1989年革命之后的罗马尼亚能想起一些关于这些机构的可怕情况。我被要求去帮助一个大型机构的主任去帮助阻止孩子们离开他们的家庭。容纳了550个婴儿，那是Ceausescu的展示孤儿院，因而我被告诉了说条件比其他的要好多了。和许多的小孩一起工作，我猜想机构里一定十分的嘈杂，但实际上那里和修道院一样安静。很难相信哪儿有孩子，主任带着我一间一间房间参观，每间房间有成列的小床，每张床上躺着一个望着天的小孩。在一间有40个新生儿的房间里，没有孩子在哭。我可以看见脏了的尿布，我可以看见有些孩子的痛苦，但唯一的噪音是一种低沉的，持续不断的呻吟。护士长十分骄傲的告诉我，“你看，我们的孩子们表现的非常好。”在接下来的几天里，我开始认识到这种安静并不是例外的。新来的孩子在最初的几个小时里也会哭泣，但是他们的需求仍然没有达到，所以他们最终学会不在多此一举。在几天的时间里，他们无精打采，毫无生气，对着天空发呆就想其他的孩子一样。
en:In August, 1993, I had my first opportunity to witnesson a massive scale the impact on childrenof institutionalization and the absence of parenting.Those of us who remember the newspaper reportsthat came out of Romania after the 1989 revolutionwill recall the horrors of the conditions in some of those institutions.I was asked to help the director of a large institution tohelp prevent the separation of children from their families.Housing 550 babies, this was Ceausescu&#39;s show orphanage,and so I&#39;d been told the conditions were much better.Having worked with lots of young children, I expectedthe institution to be a riot of noise,but it was as silent as a convent.It was hard to believe there were any children there at all,yet the director showed me into room after room,each containing row upon row of cots,in each of which lay a child staring into space.In a room of 40 newborns, not one of them was crying.Yet I could see soiled nappies, and I could seethat some of the children were distressed,but the only noise was a low, continuous moan.The head nurse told me proudly,&quot;You see, our children are very well-behaved.&quot;Over the next few days, I began to realizethat this quietness was not exceptional.The newly admitted babies would cry for the first few hours,but their demands were not met, and so eventuallythey learned not to bother. Within a few days,they were listless, lethargic, and staring into spacelike all the others.
时间： 3:56
zh-cn:一年又一年，许多的人和新闻都指责机构里的工作人员认为他们对孩子造成伤害，但是通常，一个工作人员需要照顾10,20甚至40个孩子。因此他们别无选择只能采用这种制度化的管理方式。孩子们必须7点起床，7:30喂食，8点，他们需要换尿布，因此，每个工作人员可能只有30分钟去喂10到20个孩子。如果孩子在8:30弄脏了他的尿布，他必须等上好几个小时才能再次换尿布。孩子每天与其他人接触的时间限制在了匆忙的几分钟的喂食及换尿布，其他时间，他们唯一的刺激对象是天花板，墙面或是他们小床的栅栏。
en:Over the years, many people and news reportshave blamed the personnel in the institutionsfor the harm caused to the children, but often, one memberof staff is caring for 10, 20, and even 40 children.Hence they have no option but to implement a regimented program.The children must be woken at 7 and fed at 7:30.At 8, their nappies must be changed, so a staff membermay have only 30 minutes to feed 10 or 20 children.If a child soils its nappy at 8:30, he will have to waitseveral hours before it can be changed again.The child&#39;s daily contact with another human beingis reduced to a few hurried minutes of feeding and changing,and otherwise their only stimulation is the ceiling,the walls or the bars of their cots.
时间： 4:43
zh-cn:自从我第一次去Ceausescu的机构，我见过18个国家成百上千的地方，从捷克共和国到苏丹。穿过这些不同的土地及文化，孤儿院，以及孩子们在其中的经历，是令人绝望的相似。缺乏刺激通常会导致一种自我刺激的行为像是拍手，前后摇晃，或是具有侵略性，在某些机构里，精神药物用来控制这些孩子们的行为，同时，孩子们被绑起来从而防止他们伤害自己或他人。这些孩子很快就被冠以残疾并且被送到一些为残疾孩子们设立的机构去。其中大部分的孩子将永远不会再厉害这些机构。对于那些没有残疾的孩子，在3岁的时候，他们被送到了其他的机构，在7岁时，又送去另外一个。根据年龄和性别被隔离，他们被专横的从他们的兄弟姐妹身边分离，甚至常常连说再见的机会都没有。他们很少能吃饱。他们常常感到饥饿。年长的孩子们欺负年幼的孩子们。他们学着生存。他们学着保护他们自己，或者他们被欺压。
en:Since my first visit to Ceausescu&#39;s institution,I&#39;ve seen hundreds of such places across 18 countries,from the Czech Republic to Sudan.Across all of these diverse lands and cultures,the institutions, and the child&#39;s journey through them,is depressingly similar.Lack of stimulation often leads to self-stimulating behaviorslike hand-flapping, rocking back and forth,or aggression, and in some institutions, psychiatric drugsare used to control the behavior of these children,whilst in others, children are tied up to prevent themfrom harming themselves or others.These children are quickly labeled as having disabilitiesand transferred to another institution for children with disabilities.Most of these children will never leave the institution again.For those without disabilities, at age three,they&#39;re transferred to another institution, and at age seven,to yet another. Segregated according to age and gender,they are arbitrarily separated from their siblings,often without even a chance to say goodbye.There&#39;s rarely enough to eat. They are often hungry.The older children bully the little ones. They learn tosurvive. They learn to defend themselves, or they go under.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:当他们离开这些机构的时候，他们会发现融入社会十分困难。在摩尔多瓦，在这些机构里长大的年轻女人比他们的同龄人更容易被拐卖，而一项俄罗斯的研究发现，离开机构两年后，20%的年轻人拥有犯罪记录，14%参与卖淫，而10%选择了自杀。
en:When they leave the institution, they find it really difficultto cope and to integrate into society.In Moldova, young women raised in institutionsare 10 times more likely to be trafficked than their peers,and a Russian study found that two years after leaving institutions,young adults, 20 percent of them had a criminal record,14 percent were involved in prostitution,and 10 percent had taken their own lives.
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:但是为什么近些年在没有大型的战争及灾难的情况下欧洲仍然有众多的孤儿院？实际上，95%的孩子们父母仍然活着，社会倾向于批判这些父母抛弃了他们的孩子，但是调查显示大多数父母想要他们的孩子，而驱使这些机构化背后的原因是贫穷，残疾和种族划分。很多国家并没有发展全纳性学校，所以即使是只有十分轻微的残疾的孩子仍然被送到了特殊学校，在6或7岁的时候。这些机构或许离他们的家乡上百公里。如果家庭贫穷，他们就会发现探视是十分困难的，然后渐渐的联系就断掉了。在这些机构上百万孩子每一个的背后，通常都有一对绝望的家长，他们感到别无选择，就想摩尔多瓦的娜塔莉娅，她的钱之后喂养她的婴儿，因此她必须将她较年长的孩子送到这些机构去；或是Desi，在保加利亚，她在家照顾她的四个孩子直到她的丈夫去世，但是之后，她必须外出做一份全职工作，并且没有任何的支持，因此她感到别无选择只能将一个有残疾的孩子送到相关的机构；或者有无法同的的女孩们十分害怕告诉她们的父母她们怀孕的消息，只能将孩子留在医院，或者一些新生儿的父母，年轻的夫妇发现他们第一个孩子还有残疾，并没有被提供积极的关于他们孩子潜力的正面信息，而是被医生告诉，“忘了她吧，将她送到相关的机构去，回家并且再生一个健康的孩子。“
en:But why are there so many orphans in Europewhen there hasn&#39;t been a great deal of war or disaster in recent years?In fact, more than 95 percent of these children have living parents,and societies tend to blame these parentsfor abandoning these children, but research shows thatmost parents want their children, and that the primary driversbehind institutionalizationare poverty, disability and ethnicity.Many countries have not developed inclusive schools,and so even children with a very mild disabilityare sent away to a residential special school,at age six or seven.The institution may be hundreds of miles away from the family home.If the family&#39;s poor, they find it difficult to visit,and gradually the relationship breaks down.Behind each of the million children in institutions,there is usually a story of parents who are desperateand feel they&#39;ve run out of options, like Natalia in Moldova,who only had enough money to feed her baby,and so had to send her older son to the institution;or Desi, in Bulgaria, who looked after her four childrenat home until her husband died,but then she had to go out to work full time,and with no support, felt she had no optionbut to place a child with disabilities in an institution;or the countless young girls too terrified to tell their parentsthey&#39;re pregnant, who leave their babies in a hospital;or the new parents, the young couple who havejust found out that their firstborn child has a disability,and instead of being provided with positive messagesabout their child&#39;s potential, are told by the doctors,&quot;Forget her, leave her in the institution,go home and make a healthy one.&quot;
时间： 8:08
zh-cn:这些状况并非必要或是不可避免的。每一个孩子都有权利去到一个家庭，值得并且需要一个家庭，而且孩子们是非常有恢复力的。我们发现如果我们较早的将他们从机构中带出并且送到一个充满爱的家庭，他们将从他们的延迟成长中恢复，并且拥有一个普通的，快乐的人生。而且，为家庭提供支持要比为机构提供支持便宜得多。一个调查标兵一个家庭支持服务的话费是机构的10%，同时高品质的培养通常只会花到30%。如果我们在这些孩子身上少花钱而把钱花在正确的服务商，我们将能够拯救并对拥有复杂需要的孩子们进行高品质的再投资。
en:This state of affairs is neither necessary nor is it inevitable.Every child has the right to a family, deservesand needs a family, and children are amazingly resilient.We find that if we get them out of institutions and into lovingfamilies early on, they recover their developmental delays,and go on to lead normal, happy lives.It&#39;s also much cheaper to provide support to familiesthan it is to provide institutions.One study suggests that a family support servicecosts 10 percent of an institutional placement,whilst good quality foster carecosts usually about 30 percent.If we spend less on these children but on the right services,we can take the savings and reinvest them in high qualityresidential care for those few children with extremely complex needs.
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:整个欧洲，一个运动正在发展并且将提供较差服务大型机构的资源转移到社区性质的保护并且让孩子们充分发挥自己天赋的服务中，当在20年前我开始在罗马利亚工作时，那是约有200，000的孩子住在这些机构，每天都有更多的孩子进来。现在，则少于10,000，并且家庭支持服务在全国范围内开展。在摩尔多瓦，尽管极度的贫穷和可怕的全球经融危机造成影响，机构中的孩子仍然在过去的5年里减少了超过50%而且资源被重新分配给了家庭支持服务和全纳性学校。很多国家正在发展国家性的行为来进行改变。欧盟委员会和其他主要的捐助者正在寻找方法更多的将钱从机构转向家庭支持，增强社区能力来照顾他们自己的孩子。
en:Across Europe, a movement is growing to shift the focusand transfer the resources from large institutionsthat provide poor quality care to community-based servicesthat protect children from harm and allow them to developto their full potential. When I first started to work in Romanianearly 20 years ago, there were 200,000 children livingin institutions, and more entering every day.Now, there are less than 10,000, andfamily support services are provided across the country.In Moldova, despite extreme poverty and the terrible effectsof the global financial crisis, the numbers of childrenin institutions has reduced by more than 50 percentin the last five years, and the resources are beingredistributed to family support services and inclusive schools.Many countries have developed national action plans for change.The European Commission and other major donorsare finding ways to divert money from institutionstowards family support, empowering communitiesto look after their own children.
时间：10:00
zh-cn:但是仍然有许许多多的事需要去做来终结对孩子们系统化制度化的管理。认知的提升需要社会的每一个阶层。人们需要知道机构对孩子们产生的伤害，并且现在存在更好的选择。如果我们知道有谁计划支持孤儿院，我们需要劝说他们转而去支持家庭服务。
en:But there is still much to be done to end the systematicinstitutionalization of children.Awareness-raising is required at every level of society.People need to know the harm that institutions cause to children,and the better alternatives that exist.If we know people who are planning to support orphanages,we should convince them to support family services instead.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:行动起来，这是一种我们可以在有生之年消除的对孩子的虐待。
en:Together, this is the one form of child abusethat we could eradicate in our lifetime.
时间：10:28
zh-cn:谢谢。（鼓掌）
en:Thank you. (Applause)
时间：10:31
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
