时间： 0:15
zh-cn:就是在那个时候我开办了一个叫做修补学校的项目。
en:This is the exact momentthat I started creating something called Tinkering School.
时间： 0:24
zh-cn:修补学校里，孩子们可以拿起木棍和锤子以及一些其他危险的物品，并且给予信任。相信他们不会让自己受伤，相信他们不会让他人受伤。修补学校没有固定的课程。也没有测试。我们不去尝试教任何人任何具体的事情。
en:Tinkering School is a place where kids can pick up sticksand hammers and other dangerous objects,and be trusted.Trusted not to hurt themselves,and trusted not to hurt others.Tinkering School doesn&#39;t follow a set curriculum,and there are no tests.We&#39;re not trying to teach anybody any specific thing.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:当儿童来这的时候他们将会接触到很多东西，木头，铁钉，绳索及轮胎，以及很多很多工具，真正的工具。这六天对儿童来说是一个身临其境的体验。并在这方面，我们可以提供时间给孩子。这些似乎就是他们所缺少的在日程过满的生活中。我们的目的是确保在他们离开的时候能更好的理解怎么去建造东西比他们来之前更好的理解，以及一个扎根于内心的领悟那就是你瞎忙也可以搞明白一件事情。
en:When the kids arrivethey&#39;re confronted with lots of stuff:wood and nails and rope and wheels,and lots of tools, real tools.It&#39;s a six-day immersive experience for the kids.And within that context, we can offer the kids time —something that seems in short supplyin their over-scheduled lives.Our goal is to ensure that they leavewith a better sense of how to make thingsthan when they arrived,and the deep internal realizationthat you can figure things out by fooling around.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:从没有任何事情是按照计划运行的，从来没有。笑然后孩子们马上就发现所有的项目都出了差错 —笑但同时也造就了一个轻松的想法，那就是在项目中的每一个过程都让你向甜蜜的成功靠拢，或者是一个欣喜的灾难。我们从涂鸦和草图开始。有时候我们也做一些真正的计划。有时候我们直接从建造开始。建造是体验的核心。动起手来，把自己深深的浸入和全力的投入到你手头的问题里。罗宾和我，就像合作伙伴，保持着这些项目向完成的方向进军。成功就在过程中。我们庆祝和分析失败。问题变成一个个迷题紧接着障碍消除了。
en:Nothing ever turns out as planned ... ever.(Laughter)And the kids soon learnthat all projects go awry —(Laughter)and become at ease with the idea that every stepin a project is a step closerto sweet success,or gleeful calamity.We start from doodles and sketches.And sometimes we make real plans.And sometimes we just start building.Building is at the heart of the experience:hands on, deeply immersedand fully committed to the problem at hand.Robin and I, acting as collaborators,keep the landscape of the projectstilted towards completion.Success is in the doing,and failures are celebrated and analyzed.Problems become puzzlesand obstacles disappear.
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:当我们遇到特定的困难的时候比如说挫折或复杂时，一个十分有趣的行为就显现出来了: 装饰。笑装饰那些未完成的作品是一种概念般的孵化。从这些间隙中产生了更深的见解以及解决问题的新奇尝试这些问题在此之前还让人沮丧。
en:When faced with particularly difficultsetbacks or complexities,a really interesting behavior emerges: decoration.(Laughter)Decoration of the unfinished projectis a kind of conceptual incubation.From these interludes come deep insightsand amazing new approaches to solving the problemsthat had them frustrated just moments before.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:我们可以运用所有的材料。甚至是那些平凡，可恨的塑料购物袋也可以变为一个桥梁而且任何人都没想到可以如此坚固。有时候我们对我们自己所建造的东西感到惊讶。
en:All materials are available for use.Even those mundane, hateful, plastic grocery bagscan become a bridgestronger than anyone imagined.And the things that they buildamaze even themselves.
时间： 3:33
zh-cn:影片中: 三，二，一，发射！
en:Video: Three, two, one, go!
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:基弗尔·杜雷: 一个7岁小孩造的过山车。
en:Gever Tulley: A rollercoaster built by seven-year-olds.
时间： 3:48
zh-cn:影片中: 耶！掌声
en:Video: Yay!(Applause)
时间： 3:53
zh-cn:基弗尔·杜雷:谢谢你们。这是我的荣幸。掌声
en:GT: Thank you. It&#39;s been a great pleasure.(Applause)
