时间： 0:13
zh-cn:我曾打开过一个盲人的头颅。我没有让他思考或者做出反应。不夸张的讲我敲开了他的头。当时他扶着我的肩膀和我一起走，我误估了我们之间的距离，致使他撞到门上。
en:I opened a blind man&#39;s head.I didn&#39;t make him think or reflect —I cracked his head open, literally.We were walking with himholding onto my shoulder,I miscalculated how much spacethere was between us,and I knocked him into a gate.
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:29
zh-cn:他的前额头缝了五针。那一刻，我认为我是这个世界上最坏的老师。我真的不知道如何道歉。幸运的是EI Pulga是一个不记仇的人。那天对他来说，我是他的职业生涯中留下重要印记的教练。
en:Five stitches in his forehead.At that moment, I felt likethe worst teacher in the world.I really didn&#39;t know how to apologize.Luckily, El Pulga is one of those peoplewho takes things quite well.And to this day, he saysthat I was the coachwho left the most importantmark on his career.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:事实上，自从我开始在这个盲人机构工作，很多事情都是那么的不可思议。很多他们做的事，我都无法想象是如何做到的。他们游泳，锻炼，玩牌。他们灌同伴，相互倒酒，并且不会在过程中伤害到自己。
en:The truth is, when I started workingat the institute for the blind,I was surprised by a lot of things.A lot of the things they did,I never imagined they could:they swam, did exercise, played cards.They drank mate, and could pour itwithout burning themselves in the process.
时间： 1:09
zh-cn:但是当我看到他们在踢足球，那真的太震撼了！他们有个很脏的场地，生锈的门框和破洞的门网。加入这个协会的盲人平时都会在这里活动，就像我在我家边上的运动场活动一样。他们踢球虽然看不见。他们根据足球碰撞的声音进行定位。在对手的球门后有个指引，以便让他们知道该向哪里射门。而且他们都会戴眼罩。因为有一些人是可以看见一点点的，他们戴上眼罩以确保每个人都是平等的。
en:But when I saw them playing soccer —that was amazing.They had a dirt field,rusty goalposts and broken nets.The blind who attended the institutewould play their games there,just like I did at a field near my house.But they played without being able to see.The ball made a soundso they could locate it.They had a guidebehind the rival team&#39;s goalto know where to kick the ball.And they used eye masks.There were guyswho could still see a little,and they wore eye masksso everyone was equal.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:我对自己也很有信心，并向他们要了一个眼罩。我戴上它尝试着去踢球。我的一生都在踢球。但这件事真的更让人觉得不可思议，两秒之后我就不知道我站在哪里了。我之前学过体能教育因为我热爱高水平竞技。
en:When I was more at ease with them,I asked for a mask myself.I put it on and tried to play.I had played soccer all my life.This is where it got even more amazing:within two seconds, I didn&#39;t knowwhere I was standing.I had studied physical educationbecause I loved high performance.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:我在这个机构工作是一次偶然的机会。我的另一份工作是在阿根廷国家赛艇队，我感觉那才是我的工作。而在盲人机构，每件事都是两倍的难度。我永远不会忘记第一天我带整个队伍做热身。我让他们在我面前站成一排，我以前也是这样让赛艇队做的。我当时说：“好，每个人像我这样弯下腰”，当我抬起头来，发现两个人坐在地上，三个人躺着，其他人都在蹲着。
en:I started workingat the institute by chance.My other job was with the ArgentinianNational Rowing Team,and I felt that was my thing.Here, everything was twice as hard.I&#39;ll never forget the first dayI did the warm-up with the team.I lined them up in front of me —I used to do that with the rowing team —and I said, &quot;OK, everyonebend down,&quot; going like this.When I looked up, two guys were seated,three were lying downand others were squatting.
时间： 2:30
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:32
zh-cn:我怎样能在这里完成我在赛艇队所做的事？这花了我一段时间。我开始寻找一些方法，从他们身上学习，从他们的其他教练学习。我了解到我不能像普通教练一样在黑板上解释，但我可以用一个塑料盘和一些瓶盖。这样他们能够通过触碰来跟随我。我也发现，如果我拉着绳子引导他们，他们可以跟随我的轨迹跑步。于是我们开始寻找能够帮我带着他们跑步的志愿者。
en:How could I do herethe same things I was doing there?It took me a while.I started looking for toolsto learn from them,from the teachers who worked with them.I learned I couldn&#39;t explain a playon a chalkboard like a coach does,but I could use a plastic trayand some bottle capsso they could follow me by way of touch.I also learned they could run on a trackif I ran with them, holding a rope.So we started looking for volunteersto help us run with them.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:我真的很享受那段时光，并且找到了我们做的这些事的目的和意义。起初很困难，而且很不舒服。但我决定克服这些不适。那段时光，也成为了我工作以来最陶醉的一段时间。
en:I was enjoying it,and finding purpose and meaningin what we were doing.It was hard at first,it was uncomfortable,but I decided to overcome the discomfort.And there came a timewhen it became the mostfascinating job I&#39;d ever had.
时间： 3:22
zh-cn:我在思考我之前所怀疑的：为什么我们不能成为一支高水平的队伍？当然，我忘了一点：我需要发现他们想要什么，还有这个故事真正的主角。在那片场地三个小时的足球训练,是远远不够的。我们应该换种方式进行训练。
en:I think that&#39;s when I wondered:Why couldn&#39;t we bea high-performance team as well?Of course, one thing was missing:I needed to find out what they wanted,the real protagonists of this story.Three hours of training,playing soccer on that field,were not going to be enough.We would have to train differently.
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:我们开始更努力地练习，而且效果非常好。队员们都要求更多的训练。我非常理解他们，他们太想知道为什么他们达不到高水平。当我们感觉准备好了，我敲开了CENARD的门。CENARD是国家高水平竞技体育中心，位于阿根廷。似乎很难让那些人听进去我们想要表达的。但实际比想象的要难得多去让在那里训练的其他运动员都考虑我们提出的平等。实际上，他们允许我们使用场地，但只是在没有其他队伍用的时候。我们被称为“盲人们”。不是每个人都真正清楚我们在那里做什么。
en:We started to train harder,and the results were great;they asked for more.I came to understandthat they, too, wonderedwhy they couldn&#39;t do high-performance.When we felt ready,we knocked at CENARD&#39;s door.CENARD is the National Centerfor High-Performance Sportshere in Argentina.It was hard to get themto hear what we had to say.But it was considerably more difficultto get the other athletes training thereto consider us their equals.In fact, they would let us use the fieldonly when no other teams were using it.And we were known as &quot;the blind ones.&quot;Not everyone knewexactly what we were doing there.
时间： 4:24
zh-cn:2006年的世界锦标赛在球队的历史上是个转折点。比赛是第一次在布宜诺斯艾利斯举办。那是我们表现的机会，展示给每个人看我们一直以来所付出的。我们成功晋级到了决赛。我们慢慢成长为一个团队。
en:The 2006 World Championshipwas a turning point in the team&#39;s history.It was held in Buenos Airesfor the first time.It was our chance to show everyonewhat we had been doing all that time.We made it to the finals.We were growing as a team.
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:决赛是由我们对阵巴西。他们是锦标赛最强的队伍。他们之前的每一场比赛都是压倒性优势获胜的。几乎没人相信我们能赢得这场比赛。几乎每个人，除了我们。
en:It was us against Brazil in the finals.They were the best team in the tournament.They won every game by a landslide.Hardly anyone believedwe could win that game.Hardly anyone — except for us.
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:在赛前会议中，在更衣室，在每个队员的热身时，都能闻到胜利的气息。我发誓这种味道存在。我曾几次在队伍中闻到过，但我记忆犹新的是决赛的前一天。阿根廷足球协会为我们打开了一扇门。
en:During pre-game meetings,in the locker room,during each warm-up,it smelled of victory.I swear that smell exists.I smelled it several times with the team,but I remember it in particular,the day before we played that final.The Argentine Football Associationhad opened their doors to us.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:我们当时在足球协会里进行了训练，那里曾是贝隆，伊瓜因和梅西训练的地方。那是第一次，我感到我们像一支真正的国家队。比赛的前一天，晚上七点半，我们当时在休息室讨论战术，一个孩子的敲门声打断了我们的谈话。他建议我们去教堂。他邀请我们去教堂。我试着摆脱他，说这不是一个合适的时机，我们另找一天去更好。他坚持己见，请求我让他带队员们去教堂，因为那天，一个曾创造过奇迹的牧师将会在那里。
en:We were training at AFA,where Verón, Higuain and Messi trained.For the first time ever,we felt like a true national team.At 7:30pm, the day before the game,we were in the lounge discussing strategy,and a waiter knocks on the door,interrupting our conversation.He suggested we go to church.He came to invite us to church.I tried to get rid of him,saying it wasn&#39;t a good time,that we better leave it for another day.He kept insisting, asking me to pleaselet him take the guys to church,because that day, a pastorwho performed miracles would be there.
时间： 6:03
zh-cn:我有点胆怯地问他是什么样的奇迹，他故作平静地回答道：“教练，让我带队伍去教堂吧，我们回来的时候，我保证一半人都能重见光明”
en:I was slightly afraid to askwhat type of miracles he meant,and he replied nonchalantly,&quot;Coach, let me takethe team to the church,and when we return, I guaranteethat half of them will be able to see.&quot;
时间： 6:15
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:一些队员笑了，但是可以想象得到作为一个盲人，有个人告诉你这些。我不知道该说什么。我什么也没说，那是种尴尬的安静。我并不想让他失望，因为他真的相信这可以实现。
en:Some of the guys laughed,but imagine being a blind personand someone says that to you.I didn&#39;t know what to say.I said nothing; it was an awkward silence.I didn&#39;t want to make him feel bad,because he truly believedthis could happen.
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:其中一个队员帮我化解了尴尬，他站起来说道：“Juan&quot;, 是那个孩子的名字。”Gonza 已经告诉你这个时间去教堂不合适“”还有，让我解释得更清楚些：“如果我们去那个教堂，我们回来之后还是看不见””我会狠狠的揍你，这样我明天也不能比赛了“
en:One of the players saved me,when he stood up and confidently said,&quot;Juan,&quot; — that was the kid&#39;s name —Gonza already told youit&#39;s not the best time to go to church.Besides, let me make this clear:if we go to that church, and I end upbeing able to see when we return,I will beat you so hardif I can&#39;t play tomorrow.&quot;
时间： 6:51
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:53
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:Juan离开了，笑声也随之消失，我们继续我们的赛前讨论。那晚我躺在床上，我梦想着关于第二天比赛的一切，想象着可能发生的情况和我们该如何应对。那时我才察觉到了胜利的味道。我刚刚提到过。正是由于那个瞬间，使我在想:如果其他球员也有着同样的渴望：就像Diego进入到比赛中，对我们来说是不可能输的。
en:Juan left, laughing in resignation,and we continued with our pregame talk.That night when I went to sleep,I began to dreamabout the next day&#39;s game,imagining what could happen,how we would play.And that&#39;s when I noticedthat smell of victoryI mentioned a while ago.And it&#39;s becauseat that moment, I thought:if the other players had the same desireas Diego going into the game,it was impossible for us not to win.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:第二天将会是非常精彩的。我们九点起床，比赛在晚上七点。我们已经迫不及待上场了。我们离开了足球协会，大巴车上满是球迷送给我们的旗子。我们当时在讨论比赛，我们能够听到人们尖叫与欢呼声，“上吧 Murciélagos！就是今天！最后的挑战！”
en:The next day was going to be wonderful.We got up at 9am, the game was at 7pm,and we were already eager to play.We left AFA, and the bus was fullof flags that people had given to us.We were talking about the game,and we could hear peoplehonking and cheering,&quot;Go Murciélagos! Today&#39;s the day!The final challenge!&quot;
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:一些队员问我：“他们认识我们吗？他们知道我们是足球运动员吗？”一些人跟随大巴来到了阿根廷高水平竞技体育中心。我们抵达后发现一个不可思议的场景。在从更衣室通向比赛场地的通道中，我当时在和Silvio走着，他抓住我的肩膀，这样我能够引导他。幸运的是，那条走廊没有任何门。
en:The guys asked me, &quot;Do they know us?Do they know we&#39;re playing?&quot;Some people followed the bus to CENARD.We arrived and found an amazing scene.In the corridor leadingfrom the locker room to the game field,I was walking with Silvio,who was holding onto my shoulder,so I could guide him.Fortunately, there wereno gates along the way.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:21
zh-cn:当我们抵达场地，他问了我有关球场里的一切。他不想错过每个细节。他说，“告诉我你看见了什么，告诉我是谁在打鼓”
en:When we reached the field,he asked me about everything.He didn&#39;t want to miss a single detail.He said, &quot;Tell me what you see,tell me who&#39;s playing the drums.&quot;
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:我尽可能地解释那里所发生的一切。我告诉他，“看台都被塞满了，导致很多人都进不来”“全场都充斥着蓝色和白色的气球”“他们徐徐展开了一张巨大的阿根廷国旗，盖住了整个正面看台”
en:I tried to explain what was happeningwith as much detail as possible.I told him, &quot;The stands are packed,a lot of people couldn&#39;t get in,there are blue and white balloonsall over the field,they&#39;re opening a giant Argentine flagthat covers the entire grandstand.&quot;
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:他突然打断我说:“你看见一面写着San Pedro的旗子了吗”那是他居住的城市。我开始用目光搜寻看台。我发现了一面小白旗，用黑色的喷漆印刷，可以看到：“Silvio，你的家人和整个San Pedro都在这里”
en:Suddenly, he cuts me off and says,&quot;Do you see a flag that says &#39;San Pedro&#39;?&quot;That&#39;s the city where he lives.I started looking into the standsand I spotted a little white flagwith lettering donein black spray paint, that read:&quot;Silvio, your familyand all of San Pedro are here.&quot;
时间： 9:07
zh-cn:我告诉他这些，他回答道：“那是我妻子，告诉我她在哪，我要向他挥手”我向他指出了旗子的位置，并且把他的胳膊举向他妻子的方向，他朝着那个方向摇摆着胳膊，有大约二三十个人站起来为他喝彩。那一幕发生时，我察觉到他脸部的变化，他是多么的感动。我也被感动到了。两秒后，我一度哽咽。那种感觉很奇怪，我既感到激动又非常苦恼气愤他看不见这一切。
en:I told him that and he replied,&quot;That&#39;s my mom, tell me whereshe is, I want to I wave at her.&quot;I pointed him toward the flagand showed him with his armwhere they were sitting,and he waved his arms in that direction.About 20 or 30 people stood upand gave him an ovation.When that happened,I saw how his face changed,how moved he was.It was moving for me, too;two seconds later,I had a lump in my throat.It was strange — I felt boththe excitement of what was happening,and the anger and the anguishthat he could not see it.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:几天后当我告诉他我之前所经历的，他为了让我放心，告诉我：“Ginza，别难过，我能看到他们”“我发誓我能看见他们所有人，只是方式不同”
en:A few days later when I told himwhat I had experienced,he tried to reassure me, saying,&quot;Gonza, don&#39;t feel bad, I could see them.Differently, but I swear to youthat I saw them all.&quot;
时间： 9:58
zh-cn:比赛开始了。我们不能失败，因为那是决赛。观众都很安静，就像这里一样。因为对于盲人足球，观众必须要保持安静，球员才能听到球的声音。只有比赛结束他们才可以欢呼。
en:The game started.We could not fail; it was the final.The audience was quiet, like here,because in soccer for the blind,the public has to be quietso the players can hear the ball.They&#39;re only allowed to cheerwhen the game is over.
时间：10:13
zh-cn:而当比赛只剩八分钟，观众们把之前32分钟压抑在内心的欢呼声全部释放了出来。当Silvio用内脚背把球送入球门死角，观众爆发出内心的欢呼声，简直难以置信。
en:And when there were eight minutes to go,the crowd did all the cheeringthey hadn&#39;t done in the first 32 minutes.When pigeon-toed Silvionailed the ball at an angle,they cheered with all their heart,in an incredible way.
时间：10:29
zh-cn:今天，如果你们走进国家高水平竞技体育中心，你们能看见门上巨大的海报，展示着我们全队的照片：Los Murciélagos他们是一支标准的国家队，竞技体育中心的每个人都认识他们。在他们拿下两届世界冠军，和两届残奥会冠军后，没人再会质疑他们不是高水平运动员。
en:Today, if you go to CENARD,you&#39;ll see a huge poster on the door,with a photo of our team,Los Murciélagos.They&#39;re a model national team,everyone in CENARD knows who they are,and after having wontwo World Championshipsand two Paralympic medals,no one doubts they arehigh-performance athletes.
时间：10:48
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:03
zh-cn:（掌声停止）
en:(Applause ends)
时间：11:06
zh-cn:我认为我非常幸运能够带队十年，起初我只是个训练师，而后成为了他们的教练。但我感觉他们给于我的，要比我给予他们的要多得多。
en:I was lucky to trainthis team for 10 years,first as a trainerand later as their coach.I feel that they&#39;ve given me much morethan what I&#39;ve given them.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:去年，他们邀请我去执教另一支国家队：力量足球队。那是由一群坐在轮椅上的小伙子们组成的队伍。他们用操纵杆来控制电动轮椅，因为他们手臂没有足够的力量来推动传统轮椅。他们安装了一个减震器在轮椅上，为的是在踢球的时候保护他们的脚。那是他们第一次以场上主角的身份参加比赛，而不是观众。那是第一次，他们的父母，朋友和家人能够看他们比赛。
en:Last year, they asked me to coachanother national team, Power Soccer.It&#39;s a national team of young menwho play soccer in wheelchairs.They use motorized wheelchairsthat they drive with a joystick,because they don&#39;t haveenough strength in their armsto use conventional chairs.They added a bumper to the chair,a safeguard that protects their feet,while allowing them to kick the ball.It&#39;s the first time that, insteadof being the spectators,they&#39;re now the main characters.It&#39;s the first time their parents,friends and siblings can see them play.
时间：11:58
zh-cn:对我来说，这是个新的挑战，有着和之前同样的不适，不安全感和担心。当我开始和那些盲人一起工作。但我处理问题更多的是通过换位思考。这就是为什么我从那天起，像场上的运动员一样对待他们，而到了场下，我尝试着感同身受。不做任何带有偏见的事，因为自然地对待他们让他们感觉最舒服。
en:For me, it&#39;s a new challenge,with the same discomfort,insecurity, and fear I hadwhen I started working with the blind.But I approach it allfrom a more experienced position.That&#39;s why from day one,I treat them as athletes on the field,and off the field, I tryto put myself in their shoesand behave without prejudice,because treating them naturallyfeels best to them.
时间：12:24
zh-cn:盲人队和轮椅队都在踢球，然而一些事不会为他们着想。他们不得不适应规矩去照做。而且两支队队都打破了这条规则：“有人说他们踢不了足球”
en:Both teams play soccer;something once unthinkable for them.They had to adapt the rules to do so.And both teams broke the same rule —the one that saidthey couldn&#39;t play soccer.
时间：12:40
zh-cn:当你亲眼见到他们踢球，你看见的是竞技而不是残疾。比赛的结束也是问题的开始，当他们离开赛场。接着他们步入了我们生活中，在这样一个社会，它的规则不会真正考虑到他们，或者关心到他们。
en:When you see them play,you see competition, not disability.The problem starts when the game is over,and they leave the field.Then they step in to play our game,in a society whose rulesdon&#39;t really take them into accountor care for them.
时间：12:58
zh-cn:我从运动中得到的启发是：残疾，很大程度上取决于社会准则，我坚信如果我们能够改变其中一些规则，我们可以使他们的生活变得简单些。
en:I learned from sportsthat disability greatly depends onthe rules of the game.I believe that if we changesome of the rules of our game,we can make life a little easier for them.
时间：13:12
zh-cn:我们都知道我们每天都能见到一些残疾人。但是没有过和他们直接的交流，我们意识不到他们每天所面临的问题，比如对于他们登上一辆公交车是有多么难找到一份工作，乘地铁，又或者过马路。
en:We all know there are peoplewith disabilities; we see them daily.But by having no direct contact with them,we&#39;re not aware of the problemsthey face every day,like how hard it is for themto get on a bus,find a job,take the subwayor cross the street.
时间：13:31
zh-cn:与残疾人有关的社会责任，的确在不断提高。但我认为仍然是不够的。我认为改变需要从我们每一个人做起。首先，把我们与残疾人的区别抛之脑后，然后去遵守规则：真正的去重视他们。他们的为数不多，但的确存在。
en:It&#39;s true that there is an increasingsocial responsibilityregarding the inclusionof people with disabilities.But I think it&#39;s still not enough.I think change needs to comefrom every one of us.First, by leaving behindour indifference toward the disabled,and then by respecting the rulesthat do take them into account.They are few, but they do exist.
时间：13:56
zh-cn:我撬开过一个盲人的头，EI Plulga的头。而我向你保证这两支队伍也同样撬开了我的头。他们首先教会我的是：你必须要走出来，打好在锦标赛的每一场比赛，这就是对于我们来说所谓的生活。
en:I cracked a blind man&#39;s headopen — El Pulga&#39;s head.I can assure you these two teamsopened mine as well.They taught me that above all,you have to get out thereand play every gamein this beautiful tournamentthat we call life.
时间：14:09
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:10
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
