时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想地球的未来取决于人类自身，而非技术，而且我们已经意识到这一点。我们有点儿快到达知识终点的感觉，但要是说到对“感知”的认识，我们离这个终点却还很遥远。我们的一只脚还在中世纪的黑暗时代中。当你们在这里听到有些演讲，谈及人类非凡的才能和认知，然后你们把它跟事实对比一下我们仍然叫这个行星“地球”，真是相当的不可思议。我们的一只脚在黑暗时代里。
en:I think the future of this planet depends on humans,not technology, and we already have the knowledge —we’re kind of at the endgame with knowledge.But we’re nowhere near the endgamewhen it comes to our perception.We still have one foot in the dark ages.And when you listen to some of the presentations here —and the extraordinary range of human capability, our understandings —and then you contrast it with the factwe still call this planet, &quot;Earth:&quot; it’s pretty extraordinary —we have one foot in the dark ages.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:这里只快速点一下，亚里斯多德，他声称，它不是平的，它是圆的。伽利略，受宗教裁判所的压力，他必须稍微礼貌一些。他说，你们要知道它不在中心。而霍克斯说，它不是地球，笨蛋，它是海洋。这是一个海洋行星。艾略特已经替我说得很好了-这段话会让你起鸡皮疙瘩：“我们不应当停止探险，而到达探险终点时，我们应该回到出发的地方，并第一次真正了解它。”接下来的一句是，“穿过未知的门，地球最后被发现的角落即是我们开始了解它的地方。”于是我便得到一个信息，我觉得我们似乎都在朝错误的方向走。
en:Just quickly: Aristotle, his thing was, &quot;It’s not flat, stupid, it’s round.&quot;Galileo — he had the Inquisition, so he had to be a little bit more polite —his was, &quot;It’s not in the middle, you know.&quot;And Hawkes: &quot;it’s not earth, stupid, it’s ocean.&quot;This is an ocean planet.T.S. Eliot really said it for me —and this should give you goose bumps:&quot;we shall not cease from explorationand the end of our exploring shall be to returnwhere we started and know the place for the first time.&quot;And the next lines are, &quot;Through the unknown remembered gate,where the last of earth discoveredis that which is the beginning.&quot;So I have one message.It seems to me that we’re all pointed in the wrong direction.
时间： 1:44
zh-cn:在座的火箭专家们，我喜欢你们所做的一切，我敬佩你们的胆识，我敬佩你们的勇气，但你们的火箭正在朝超级错误的方向飞。（笑声）这完全是看问题的角度问题让我试着来跟你们说说。我不想冒犯你们，但是，如果我——我不会真的这么做，因为这会是个侮辱，所以我会假装，舒缓一下语气。我来说说你们正在想的东西。如果我拿起一块1平方英尺的方块，颜色代表地球，再拿起一块根号2平方英尺的方块，即比第一个大了1.5倍，颜色代表海洋请问，这两者间有什么相关关系？就是二者间的相对重要性。也许你会说，是，是，是，我们都知道，地球上水覆盖的面积是陆地的两倍。但这是一个观念上的问题。如果这就是你们所想的，我是说当我提到这个海洋星球被愚蠢地叫做地球时你们想的就是这个的话，如果你认为这就是它们的相对重要性，2比1，那你就错了，错了10倍。你不会觉得自己跟这两片木板一样的厚吧？但是，你说“地球”时就好象是这么认为的，这是因为演示的关系，如果我把它这样转过来，地球平面就会跟纸一样薄。这是个薄层，以二维形式存在。而海洋的演示会表现出深度。而且如果以体积来衡量二者，你会发现它们的相对比例是20比1.
en:For the rocketeers in the audience:I love what you’re doing, I admire the guts,I admire the courage — but your rocketsare pointed in the wrong goddamn direction.(Laughter)And it’s all a question of perspective.Let me try and tell you —I don’t mean to insult you, but look,if I — and I’m not doing this for realbecause it would be an insult,so I’m going to pretend, and it softens the blow —I’m going to tell you what you’re thinking.If I held up a square that was one foot square and the color of earth,and I held up another square that was the root two square —so it’s 1.5 times bigger — and was the color of the oceans;and I said, what is the relative value of these two things?Well, it’s the relative importance.You would say — yeah, yeah, yeah, we all know this;water covers twice the area of the planet than dry land.But it’s a question of perception,and if that’s what you’re thinking,if that’s what you think I mean when I say,&quot;This is an ocean planet stupidly called &#39;Earth.&#39;&quot;If you think that that’s the relative importance,two to one, you’re wrong by a factor of ten.Now, you’re not as thick as two short planks,but you sound like it when you say &quot;Earth,&quot;because that demonstration, if I turned around this way —that earth plane would be as thin as paper.It’s a thin film, two-dimensional existence.The ocean representation would have a depth to it.And if you hefted those two thingsyou might find that the relative scale of those is 20 to 1.
时间： 3:22
zh-cn:事实上超过94%的地球生命是水生生物。也就是说我们这些陆生者只占据了很小的一部分。我们在思想上有个问题，我们必须放弃地球是为了我们而存在的想法。因为我们确实有这个问题，如果(意识到)这是个海洋行星而我们只拥有其一小部分的话，人类的很多想法都会有所不同。
en:It turns out that something more than94 percent of life on earth is aquatic.That means that us terrestrials occupy a minority.The problem we have in believing thatis — you just have to give up this notionthat this Earth was created for us.Because it’s a problem we have.If this is an ocean planetand we only have a small minority of this planet,it just interferes with a lot of what humanity thinks.
时间： 3:53
zh-cn:好的，下来我要批评一个事情。我说的不是詹姆斯·卡梅隆，虽然我可以，但我不打算这么做。你们真的有必要去看下他最新的电影，《深海异形》。不可思议的电影。里面描述了两架这种深海探测器，我批评它们，因为这些可爱的东西是我的。这个，我想，是最漂亮的经典潜水器之一。仔细看这个潜水器，你会看到一个球体。这不是一个可以轮转的球体。它的全部浮力的产生，全部载重的放置，电池悬挂在下方，就好象热气球一样。这是气囊，这是吊篮、载荷。接下来要批评的，还有这一大堆的灯。这一个，携带有两个很大的机械手。这确实是一个非常好的工作装置，这也是它的设计目的。它的问题所在，也是我永远不会再建一个这种潜水器的原因，就是这是一个二维思维的产物。作为工程师，我们人类深入海洋的思维方式就是这样。我们把自己所有在陆地上的困扰，所有的限制，特别是这些二维思维的限制，它们的束缚如此之深以至于我们甚至意识不到，而我们把这些都带到了海里。你们可以看到卡梅隆正在里面坐着。一个在二维世界中存在起作用的座椅，是重力把人按在座椅上的，OK？而在一个二维世界中，我们知道第三维，但并不会利用它，因为要向上飞需要很多的能量来克服重力。然后母亲告诉我们，没有跌倒也要小心，因为你还会掉下来。
en:Okay. Let me criticize this thing.I’m not talking about James Cameron —although I could, but I won’t.You really do have to go and see his latest film,&quot;Aliens of the Deep.&quot; It’s incredible.It features two of these deep rovers,and I can criticize them because these sweet things are mine.This, I think, represents one of the most beautifulclassic submersibles built.If you look at that sub, you’ll see a sphere.This is an acryclic sphere.It generates all of the buoyancy,all of the payload for the craft,and the batteries are down here hanging underneath,exactly like a balloon.This is the envelope, and this is the gondola, the payload.Also coming up later for criticism are these massive lights.And this one actually carries two great manipulators.It actually is a very good working sub —that’s what it was designed for.The problem with it is —and the reason I will never build another one like it —is that this is a product of two-dimensional thinking.It’s what we humans do when we go in the ocean as engineers;we take all our terrestrial hang-ups,all our constraints — importantly,these two-dimensional constraints that we have,and they’re so constrained we don’t even understand it —and we take them underwater.You notice that Jim Cameron is sitting in a seat.A seat works in a two-dimensional world,where gravity blasts down on that seat, OK?And in a two-dimensional world,we do know about the third dimensionbut we don’t use it because to go uprequires an awful lot of energy against gravity.And then our mothers tell us,&quot;Careful you don’t fall down&quot; — because you’ll fall over.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:现在，进入这个行星真正的大气层。这个行星具有一个由水组成的内部大气层。这就是内部大气层。它有两个大气层。外面一个是小点的，气体的大气层，重量较轻。地球上绝大多数的生物生活在内部大气层里。这些生物的享受着一个三维立体的生活空间，对我们来说这简直天方夜谭。鱼儿不会坐在椅子里。（笑声）它们不会。鱼儿的妈妈也不会对它们说，没有摔倒你也要小心。它们不会摔倒，不会的。它们活在一个三维的世界里，在那里，向这个方向，或那个方向，所需要的能量是没有区别的。这是一个真正的三维空间，而我们才刚刚开始理解它。我不知道其他潜水器，甚或是遥控潜水器，有没有想到利用这种三维空间。
en:Now, go into the real atmosphere of this planet.This planet has an inner atmosphere of water;it’s its inner atmosphere. It has two atmospheres —a lesser, outer gaseous atmosphere, a lighter one.Most of life on earth is in that inner atmosphere.And that life enjoys a three-dimensional existence,which is alien to us.Fish do not sit in seats.(Laughter)They don’t. Their mothers don’t say to little baby fish,&quot;Careful you don’t fall over.&quot;They don’t fall over. They don’t fall.They live in a three-dimensional worldwhere there is no difference in energybetween going this way, that way, that way or that way.It’s truly a three-dimensional space.And we’re only just beginning to grasp it.I don’t know of any other submersible,or even remote, that just takes advantagethat this is a three-dimensional space.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:这才是我们迈向海洋所要采用的方式。这就是一个三维的机器。我们要做的就是像那些动物一样，在这个三维的海洋空间里遨游。这确实是好东西。这是人类第一次尝试在水下飞翔。此刻，我正在水下和这只漂亮的，巨大的鲾鲼一起。她的翼展是我的两倍。我开了过去，她看到我。请注意她是如何翻滚和转体。她不是坐在那里，也没有通过鼓气到槽罐里来控制上浮或下沉，她就是翻转。而我的飞船——这是第一次在这里展示的。克里斯让我来这里秀一些从未展示过的东西。我希望你们注意到她实际上是翻个身又转回来的。那就是我；我看到她回来了，从我下面游上来。我翻转推进，想慢慢地往下。我试着很小心地做这一切。我们花了大概三小时，她逐渐开始信任我。而这位“女士”也主导着这支“芭蕾”。一到完结，她就转身离开了。我试着要去追她，但我还在练习怎么飞……这是第一架会飞的潜水器。这是最原始的雏形。这是次连接导线的飞行。它拥有翅膀，没有愚蠢的浮箱。它具有持久的浮力。通过在水中的运动，它能够控制自如。现在，看，看——她刚刚把我刮走了。她刚刚从下面翻了个跟斗，这是我在这台机器里唯一一次真正的下潜。
en:This is the way we should be going into the oceans.This is a three-dimensional machine.What we need to do is go down into the ocean with the freedom of the animals,and move in this three-dimensional space.OK, this is good stuff.This is man’s first attempt at flying underwater.Right now, I’m just coming down on this gorgeous, big, giant manta ray.She has twice the wingspan that I do.There I’m coming; she sees me.And just notice how she rolls under and turns;she doesn’t sit there and try and blow air into a tankand kind of flow up or sink down — she just rolls.And the craft that I’m in —this hasn’t been shown before.Chris asked us to show stuff that hasn’t been shown before.I wanted you to noticethat she actually turned to come back up.There I am; I see her coming back,coming up underneath me.I put reverse thrust and I try and pull gently down.I’m trying to do everything very gently.We spent about three hours together and she’s beginning to trust me.And this ballet is controlled by this lady here.She gets about that close and then she pulls away.So now I try and go after her, but I’m practicing flying.This is the first flying machine. This was the first prototype.This was a fly by wire. It has wings.There’re no silly buoyancy tanks —it’s permanently, positively buoyant.And then by moving through the waterit’s able to take that control.Now, look at that; look, it’s — she just blew me away.She just rolled right away from underneath.Really that’s the only real dive I’ve ever made in this machine.
时间： 8:18
zh-cn:它花了10年时间建成。但这位女士教了我，教了我太多东西。我们在水里才三个小时就学到了这么多。我需要再去建造一架机器。但看这里，没有液体舱，不用考虑上升有多么缓慢。背部有些许压力，潜水器直接可以往后退来到水面。
en:It took 10 years to build.But this lady here taught me, hah, taught me so much.We just learned so much in three hours in the water there.I just had to go and build another machine.But look here. Instead of blowing tanksand coming up slowly without thinking about it,it’s a little bit of back pressure,and that sub just comes straight back up out of the water.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:这是一个内置的索尼摄像机。感谢索尼。我并没有里面看起来那么丑，但摄像机太近了，有点变形。看，她就在那，在头顶上。这是个广角摄像机。她就在我头上几英寸的地方。“啊哈，噢，他刚刚从我的头上掠过，噢，我不知道，太近了。”我往上开了一点，不是为了补充空气。“这次零距离接触鲾鲼真是令人难以置信。我激动得不知怎么说了。我们的距离就1英尺。我现在要再下去。”好的，可以停了吗？请打开灯。（掌声）
en:This is an internal Sony camera. Thank you, Sony.I don’t really look that ugly,but the camera is so close that it’s just distorted.Now, there she goes, right overhead.This is a wide-angle camera.She’s just a few inches off the top of my head.&quot;Aah, ha, oh, he just crossed over the top of my head about,oh, I don’t know, just so close.&quot;I come back up, not for air.&quot;This is an incredible encounter with a manta. I’m speechless.We’ve been just feet apart. I’m going back down now.&quot;Okay, can we cut that? Lights back up please.(Applause)
时间： 9:30
zh-cn:想要“飞行”并跟上那只动物并不容易，并非我们缺少机动性，而是她实在游得太慢了。实际上我的设计就是要在水中更快地活动，因为我的想法就是我们需要飞得快，飞得远。但那次遭遇之后，我真想再回去跟她一起舞蹈，她想要跳舞。我们要做的就是增加翅膀的面积这样才能更好地控制，动力更强。
en:Trying to fly and keep up with that animal —it wasn’t the lack of maneuverability that we had.It was the fact she was going so slow.I actually designed that to move faster through the waterbecause I thought that was the thingthat we needed to do: to move fast and get range.But after that encounter I really did want to go back with that animal and dance.She wanted to dance.And so what we needed to do was increase the wing areaso that we just had more grip, develop higher forces.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:去年这架潜水器就制造出来了，就是这个。你们可以看到这儿有面积更大的翅膀。而且，这还是件很有影响力的事情，我们希望能带动其他人一起参与进来。所以我们开设了世界上第一家“飞行”学校。这世界上第一家(海洋)飞行学校的合理性搞成这个样子：当海岸警卫队找到我，跟我谈话，在我们过去用这些愚蠢的圆形玩意潜水的时候，他们对我们不闻不问。但当我们开始在在水下驾驶喷气式飞行器飞行的时候他们倒有点紧张了。他们会冒出来说，你有许可证吗？听了这话，我把太阳镜拿下来，我会说我不需要什么狗屁许可证。（笑声）我写了这些讨厌的许可证，真的写了。所以Bob Gelfons在这儿呢——但听众中有些人拥有20号许可证。他们是第一批的海底飞行员。我们举办了两期飞行学校。这事今后怎么发展我不知道，但确实充满乐趣。接下来30秒有什么？我不能告诉你们。
en:So the sub that was outside last year — this is the one.You see the larger wing area here.Also, clearly, it was such a powerful thing,we wanted to try and bring other peoplebut we couldn&#39;t figure out how to do it.So we opened the world’s first flight school.The rational for the world’s first flight schoolgoes something like: when the coastguards come up to me and say —they used to leave us alone when we were divingthese goofy little spherical things,but when we started flying aroundin underwater jet fighters they got a little nervous —they would come up and say,&quot;Do you have a license for that?&quot;And then I’d put my sunglasses on, the beardthat would all sprout out, and I would say,&quot;I don’t need no stinking license.&quot;(Laughter)&quot;I write these stinking license,&quot; which I do.So Bob Gelfond&#39;s around here —but somebody in the audience here has license number 20.They’re one of the first subsea aviators.So we’ve run two flight schools.Where the hell that goes, I don’t know, but it’s a lot of fun.What comes next in 30 seconds? I can’t tell you.
时间：11:12
zh-cn:但说到水下飞行的专利，凯伦和我正看看这事儿的发展有些商业伙伴希望我们申请专利。我们不确定。我们已经决定不去管它。申请专利对水下飞行的自由而言，（掌声）似乎不是一件正确的事情。因此无论谁想仿效我们，尽管行动，并加入我们，去吧。另一件事情是，我们的成本已经降低很多。我们发展了其他一些，称为“蜘蛛光学”的技术，克雷格·文特也要我今天早上在这里做一个声明。我们将建造一个漂亮的，小型的，这种潜水器，无人驾驶，能潜得超级深，为他的考察船采集深海的DNA样品。（掌声）谢谢。
en:But the patent for underwater flight —Karen and I, we were looking at it,some business partners wanted us to patent it —we weren’t sure about that.We’ve decided we’re just going to let that go.It just seems wrong to try and patent —(Applause)— the freedom for underwater flight.So anybody who wants to copy usand come and join us, go for it.The other thing is that we’ve got much lower costs.We developed some other technologycalled spider optics, and Craig Ventner asked meto make an announcement here this morning:we’re going to be building a beautiful, little,small version of this — unmanned, super deep —for his boat to go and get back some deep sea DNA stuff.(Applause)Thank you.
