时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我想，这个故事也许应该从1960年开始说起，当我七八岁的时候，在客厅的地板上看着雅克·库斯托的纪录片,当时还带着潜水面镜和脚蹼呢。每集结束后，我还要走到浴缸前，在浴缸里到处游一游，看一看下水道管，因为那是所有能看到的东西。到我十六岁的时候，我开始了海洋科学的研究考察和潜水，甚至住在水下装置里，比如这个，是离佛罗里达群岛不远的地方，生活了总共30天。布莱恩·斯凯利拍得这张。谢谢你，布莱恩。我通过潜水器游遍世界各地。这是个世界上可潜最深的潜水艇，由日本政府管理。
en:I guess the story actually has to startmaybe back in the the 1960s,when I was seven or eight years old,watching Jacques Cousteau documentaries on the living room floorwith my mask and flippers on.Then after every episode, I had to go up to the bathtuband swim around the bathtub and look at the drain,because that&#39;s all there was to look at.And by the time I turned 16,I pursued a career in marine science,in exploration and diving,and lived in underwater habitats, like this one off the Florida Keys,for 30 days total.Brian Skerry took this shot. Thanks, Brian.And I&#39;ve dived in deep-sea submersibles around the world.And this one is the deepest diving submarine in the world,operated by the Japanese government.
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:我和西尔维娅 娥尔丽在的一个考察队的潜水艇里，是20年前，在日本。在我这次潜水中，我到达了水下一万八千英尺(五千四百八十六米）的深度，到了一个我以为在海底会是完全原始的，野生的区域。但是当我到了那里，我发现了大量的塑料垃圾和其他碎片残骸。这成为了我人生的一个转折点。让我意识到我不能单纯地开开心心做科学研究和探险，我需要把它纳入一个行动中，我需要朝着保护环境的目标前行。于是我开始和国家地理学会和其他组织合作，并带领考察队到南极。我带领了三个潜水考察队到南极洲。十年前可以说是一个意义深远的航程，让我们发现了B-15这个巨大的冰山，历史上最大的，撞毁罗斯冰架的冰山。我们还研发了在冰山内部和下面潜水的技术。比如，给我们的肾脏装的带着可拖动电池的热水垫。这样，当血液流过我们的肾脏，会得到一点热量然后再循环到全身。不过，到南极洲的三次航行后，我决定，在稍微温和的水中工作应该会更好。于是同一年，也就是10年前，我朝北到达菲尼克斯群岛（也叫凤凰群岛）
en:And Sylvia Earle and Iwere on an expedition in this submarine20 years ago in Japan.And on my dive, I went down 18,000 feet,to an area that I thoughtwould be pristine wilderness area on the sea floor.But when I got there, I foundlots of plastic garbage and other debris.And it was really a turning point in my life,where I started to realizethat I couldn&#39;t just go have fun doing science and exploration.I needed to put it into a context.I needed to head towards conservation goals.So I began to workwith National Geographic Society and othersand led expeditions to Antarctica.I led three diving expeditions to Antarctica.Ten years ago was a seminal trip,where we explored that big iceberg, B-15,the largest iceberg in history, that broke off the Ross Ice Shelf.And we developed techniquesto dive inside and under the iceberg,such as heating pads on our kidneyswith a battery that we dragged around,so that, as the blood flowed through our kidneys,it would get a little boost of warmthbefore going back into our bodies.But after three trips to Antarctica,I decided that it might be nicer to work in warmer water.And that same year, 10 years ago,I headed north to the Phoenix Islands.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:我稍后会在这告诉大家这个故事，不过在此之前，我只想请大家仔细想想这个图表。你或许已经通过其他形式看过此图，位于上面的曲线显示纳入保护的全球陆地面积总量大约是百分之十二你能看到它像向上的曲棍球棒一样，在二十世纪六十到七十年代迅速爬升它目前已沿着一个良性轨道发展了。或许是因为那时每个人产生环境意识倡导地球日，以及六十年代，这个嬉皮士时代发生的所有事情。的确如此，我想，这对全球环境意识有一定影响。可是海洋保护区域（的曲线）基本维持水平直到现今,才稍微显现上升。而且我深信，我们目前处在海洋保护区域的曲棍球棒效应一样的转折点时刻。我想，我们本来可以在早以前就到达这个时刻，如果我们可以像看到在陆地上发生的事一样看透海洋。可惜不幸的是，海洋是不透明的，我们不能轻易看到里面发生什么事。因此，我们的海洋保护远远落后于陆地。不过，水肺潜水和潜水艇和我们在这准备做的所有工作将会帮助我们修正这点。
en:And I&#39;m going to tell you that story here in a moment.But before I do, I just want you to ponder this graph for a moment.You may have seen this in other forms,but the top line is the amount of protected areaon land, globally,and it&#39;s about 12 percent.And you can see that it kind of hockey sticks uparound the 1960s and &#39;70s,and it&#39;s on kind of a nice trajectory right now.And that&#39;s probably becausethat&#39;s when everybody got aware of the environmentand Earth Dayand all the stuff that happened in the &#39;60s with the Hippies and everythingreally did, I think, have an affect on global awareness.But the ocean-protected areais basically flat lineuntil right about now — it appears to be ticking up.And I do believe that we are at the hockey stick pointof the protected area in the ocean.I think we would have gotten there a lot earlierif we could see what happens in the oceanlike we can see what happens on land.But unfortunately, the ocean is opaque,and we can&#39;t see what&#39;s going on.And therefore we&#39;re way behind on protection.But scuba diving, submersiblesand all the work that we&#39;re setting about to do herewill help rectify that.
时间： 3:15
zh-cn:那么，菲尼克斯群岛在哪里呢？他们曾是世界最大的海洋保护区域，直到上个星期，查戈斯群岛取而代之，宣布成为最大的海洋保护区域。它在中太平洋，到哪里都要差不多五天时间，如果你想去菲尼克斯群岛，从斐济岛去要五天时间从夏威夷去要五天，从萨摩亚去也是五天。它在太平洋正中，离赤道很近的地方。我十年从未听说过该群岛。更别提菲尼克斯群岛的主权国，基里巴斯了。直到我的两个在斐济经营船宿潜水生意的朋友说：“格雷格，你要带头在这些群岛做科学考察吗？还从来没人来这里潜过水呢。”接着我说，“好啊。告诉我它们在哪里，属于哪个国家吧。“因此，那就是我初次听说菲尼克斯群岛而且我完全不知我要去的到底是什么地方。我当时去纯粹是探险。让我在此给大家略微透漏一下菲尼克斯群岛保护区域。它是地球上一个非常深的水域。平均深度大约一万两千英尺在菲尼克斯群岛，有大量的海底山脉，这些山脉，也是保护区域特别的一部分。海底山脉对于生物多样化至关重要。事实上，海底的山脉比陆地的还要多。这点是一个有趣的事实。而且，菲尼克斯群岛充满海底山脉。因此，它是深邃的-试想一下一个大的三维立体空间，非常深邃的三维立体空间有着成群结对的吞拿鱼，鲸鱼，以及各种各样的深海海洋生命，就像我们在前面的演讲中见到的一般。
en:So where are the Phoenix Islands?They were the world&#39;s largest marine-protected areaup until last weekwhen the Chagos Archipelago was declared.It&#39;s in the mid-Pacific. It&#39;s about five days from anywhere.If you want to get to the Phoenix Islands,it&#39;s five days from Fiji,it&#39;s five days from Hawaii, it&#39;s five days from Samoa.It&#39;s out in the middle of the Pacific,right around the Equator.I had never heard of the islands 10 years ago,nor the country, Kiribati, that owns them,till two friends of mine who run a liveaboard dive boat in Fijisaid, &quot;Greg, would you lead a scientific expedition up to these islands?They&#39;ve never been dived.&quot;And I said, &quot;Yeah.But tell me where they are and the country that owns them.&quot;So that&#39;s when I first learned of the Islandsand had no idea what I was getting into.But I was in for the adventure.Let me give you a little peek here of the Phoenix Islands-protected area.It&#39;s a very deep-water part of our planet.The average depths are about 12,000 ft.There&#39;s lots of seamounts in the Phoenix Islands,which are specifically part of the protected area.Seamounts are important for biodiversity.There&#39;s actually more mountains in the ocean than there are on land.It&#39;s an interesting fact.And the Phoenix Islands is very rich in those seamounts.So it&#39;s a deep — think about it in a big three-dimensional space,very deep three-dimensional spacewith herds of tuna, whales,all kinds of deep sea marine lifelike we&#39;ve seen here before.
时间： 4:39
zh-cn:这就是我们早期考察时开的船。这是群岛的样子；大家可以从背景中看到。他们出水很低，除了一个岛之外都是无人居住的。这个岛也只有大约三十五位护岛者他们基本上一直以来都鲜为人知。因为即使在古代，这些岛太远了从发着亮光的的斐济，夏威夷和塔希提岛过对于那些古老的波利尼西亚航海者那些远距离横跨太平洋的人来说都太远。我们抵达那里，拥有这个对于我个人和科学研究都是唯一而且绝佳的机会那就是到一个人类潜水记录空白的地方我到了目的地后说，”好啦，从哪里跳下去呢？让我们试试那儿吧。“接着就跳水里了。就这样我的私人生活和职业生涯都发生了改变。
en:That&#39;s the vessel that we took up therefor these studies, early on,and that&#39;s what the Islands look like — you can see in the background.They&#39;re very low to the water,and they&#39;re all uninhabited, except one islandhas about 35 caretakers on it.And they&#39;ve been uninhabited for most of timebecause even in the ancient days,these islands were too far awayfrom the bright lights of Fiji and Hawaii and Tahitifor those ancient Polynesian marinersthat were traversing the Pacific so widely.But we got up there,and I had the unique and wonderful scientific opportunity and personal opportunityto get to a place that had never been divedand just get to an island and go, &quot;Okay, where are we going to dive?Let&#39;s try there,&quot;and then falling into the water.Both my personal and my professional life changed.
时间： 5:22
zh-cn:突然间，我看到这样一个世界我在海洋中未曾见过的—鱼群密密麻麻它们使从海洋表面照射进来的光变得昏暗，绵延不断的珊瑚礁结实又色彩斑斓，巨大的鱼到处都是魔鬼鱼之类的它是一个生态系统 - 比如说鹦嘴鱼产卵大约五千只长鼻鹦嘴鱼在菲尼克斯群岛的一个入口处产卵。你能看到这些鱼群乱作一团然后有个地方模糊不清它们在那里交换卵子和精子完成交配。这本是在大海中稀松平常的事，现今在很多地方却变得艰难，主要是人类的活动造成的。菲尼克斯群岛和地球上其他赤道部分对于吞拿鱼渔业至关重要，尤其是你看到的这种黄鳍吞拿鱼。菲尼克斯是一个主要的吞拿鱼聚集地。还有鲨鱼—我们在早期的潜水中见过鲨鱼，一次多达150条这说明它是一个非常非常健康，强大的体系。
en:Suddenly, I saw a worldthat I had never seen before in the ocean —schools of fish that were so densethey dulled the penetration of sunlight from the surface,coral reefs that were continuousand solid and colorful,large fish everywhere,manta rays.It was an ecosystem. Parrotfish spawning —this is about 5,000 longnose parrotfish spawningat the entrance to one of the Phoenix Islands.You can see the fish are balled upand then there&#39;s a little cloudy area therewhere they&#39;re exchanging the eggs and sperm for reproduction —events that the ocean is supposed to do,but struggles to do in many places nowbecause of human activity.The Phoenix Islands and all the equatorial parts of our planetare very important for tuna fisheries,especially this yellowfin tuna that you see here.Phoenix Islands is a major tuna location.And sharks — we had sharks on our early dives,up to 150 sharks at once,which is an indicationof a very, very healthy, very strong, system.
时间： 6:22
zh-cn:我几乎以为这样生生不息的野生生命的画面会不断出现，但我们最后还是都游遍了。之后我们还考察了岛屿的表面—这是一个很重要的鸟类栖息地，在太平洋乃至世界上来说最重要的鸟类栖息地。接着我们的考察结束了。这是菲尼克斯保护区域你能看到—有八个岛屿突出水面。顶峰没有浮出水面的是海底山脉。记得，当一个海底山的顶峰高出水面时它就变成一个岛屿。
en:So I thought the scenesof never-ending wildernesswould go on forever,but they did finally come to an end.And we explored the surface of the Islands as well —very important bird nesting site,some of the most important bird-nesting sites in the Pacific, in the world.And we finished our trip.And that&#39;s the area again.You can see the Islands — there are eight islands —that pop out of the water.The peaks that don&#39;t come out of the water are the seamounts.Remember, a seamount turns into an island when it hits the surface.
时间： 6:58
zh-cn:那么，菲尼克斯是什么背景呢？它们在哪里呢？他们在基里巴斯共和国基里巴斯坐落在太平洋中央三个群岛体系中。西边是吉尔伯特群岛，中间是菲尼克斯群岛，也是我今天谈论的主题。东边是莱恩群岛。是世界上最大的环状珊瑚岛。基里巴斯有十一万人口散落分布在三十三个多岛上。他们拥有三百四十万立方英里的海洋占百分之一到百分之二的地球海水总量。当我第一次到那里时，也就是十年前，我几乎不晓得这个国家的名字—人们问我，”你为什么要去一个叫做基里巴斯的地方呢？“让我想起一个老掉牙的笑话带着手铐的银行抢劫犯从法院出来，记者们大声问，”嗨，威利，你为啥抢银行呢？“接着他说，”因为钱都在那儿。“于是，我会告诉他们，”为什么我去基里巴斯？因为海都在那儿。“他们基本是一个控制着最多赤道水域的太平洋中央的国家。
en:And what&#39;s the context of the Phoenix Islands?Where do these exist?Well they exist in the Republic of Kiribati,and Kiribati is located in the Central Pacificin three island groups.In the west we have the Gilbert Islands.In the center we have the Phoenix Islands,which is the subject that I&#39;m talking about.And then over to the east we have the Line Islands.It&#39;s the largest atoll nation in the world.And they haveabout 110,000 peoplespread out over 33 islands.They control 3.4 million cubic miles of ocean,and that&#39;s between one and two percentof all the ocean water on the planet.And when I was first going up there,I barely knew the name of this country 10 years ago,and people would ask me,&quot;Why are you going to this place called Kiribati?&quot;And it reminded me of that old jokewhere the bank robber comes out of the courthouse handcuffed,and the reporter yells, &quot;Hey, Willy. Why do you rob banks?&quot;And he says, &quot;cause that&#39;s where all the money is.&quot;And I would tell people, &quot;Why do I go to Kiribati?Because that&#39;s where all the ocean is.&quot;They basically are one nationthat controls most of the equatorial watersof the Central Pacific Ocean.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:他们也是一个处在极其危险中的国家。海平面在不断上升，基里巴斯，和世界上其他四十二个国家一样，将会在未来五十年到一百年内被海水淹没。由于气候变化，全球海平面由于全球变暖而上升，融化的淡水进入海洋而这些岛屿只高出海平面一两米高。一些岛屿已经被海水淹没了。这些国家正面临着这个严峻的问题。全世界都不得不面临着这个问题。当这些人们颠沛流离，无家可归时，我们该做什么？马尔代夫的总统最近召开了一次有嘲讽意味的水下内阁会议，主要为了强调这些国家所面临的巍巍可及的境地。这是我们需要的关注的。回到菲尼克斯群岛，也是我们今天的主题。
en:They&#39;re also a countrythat is in dire danger.Sea levels are rising,and Kiribati, along with 42 other nations in the world,will be under water within 50 to 100 yearsdue to climate changeand the associated sea-level rise from thermal expansionand the melting of freshwater into the ocean.The Islands rise only one to two metersabove the surface.Some of the islands have already gone under water.And these nations are faced with a real problem.We as a world are faced with a problem.What do we do with displaced fellow Earthlingswho no longer have a home on the planet?The president of the Maldivesconducted a mock cabinet meetingunderwater recentlyto highlight the dire straits of these countries.So it&#39;s something we need to focus on.But back to the Phoenix Islands,which is the subject of this Talk.
时间： 8:58
zh-cn:我回去之后，说，我们发现的东西实在是太棒了。我想回去和基里巴斯的政府分享我的探索成果。政府在西边岛系的塔拉瓦岛。于是我开始和他们联络—因为他们给我许可让我做研究-我便说，”我想回去告诉你们我们的成果。“由于某种原因，他们似乎不想让我来，或者是因为确定一个见面的时间和地点比较困难，也花了不少时间，最终他们说，”好吧，你可以来。不过如果你来的话，要给每一个参与的人都带一份午餐。”于是我说，“没问题，我乐意效劳。只要告诉我大家吃什么。”这样，大卫 奥布拉，一位珊瑚礁生物学家，和我去了塔拉瓦岛，我们花了两个小时介绍我们的菲尼克斯的惊奇发现。这个国家的人们从来都不知道这些。他们没有关于这个区域的任何数据。没有这些岛屿的任何资料。谈话结束后，渔业部长朝我走来，说，“格雷格，你知道吗，你是第一位（考察结束后）亲自回来，告知我们研究成果的科学家。”他说，“我们常常批准他们到我们的水域做调查研究，可惜我们通常只在两三年后得到一个通知，或者一个再版文件。你是第一个专程回来讲解我们你们研究的人。我们真的感谢你，今天的午餐由我们来请客。那个，你有空一起吃个晚餐吗？”
en:After I got back, I said,okay, this is amazing, what we found.I&#39;d like to go back and share it with the government of Kiribati,who are over in Tarawa,the westernmost group.So I started contacting them —because they had actually given me a permit to do this —and I said, &quot;I want to come up and tell you what we found.&quot;And for some reason they didn&#39;t want me to come,or it was hard to find a time and a place, and it took a while,but finally they said, &quot;Okay, you can come.But if you come, you have to buy lunchfor everybody who comes to the seminar.&quot;So I said, &quot;Okay, I&#39;m happy to buy lunch.Just get whatever anybody wants.&quot;So David Obura, a coral reef biologist, and I went to Tarawa,and we presented for two hourson the amazing findings of the Phoenix Islands.And the country never knew this. They never had any data from this area.They&#39;d never had any information from the Phoenix Islands.After the talk, the Minister of Fisheries walked up to meand he said, &quot;Greg, do you realizethat you are the first scientistwho has ever come backand told us what they did?&quot;He said, &quot;We often issue these permitsto do research in our waters,but usually we get a note two or three years later,or a reprint.But you&#39;re the first one who&#39;s ever come back and told us what you did.And we really appreciate that. And we&#39;re buying you lunch today.And are you free for dinner?&quot;
时间：10:11
zh-cn:我当然有时间，接着我和基里巴斯的渔业部长出去吃了个晚餐。晚餐期间，我了解到基里巴斯的国家收入来源-它是一个非常贫困的国家—是通过向其他国家出售在他们海域的捕鱼权，因为基里巴斯自己并没有捕鱼的能力。他们通过向前来捕鱼国收取捕获价值百分之五的手续费来获利。这样，如果美国从珊瑚礁捕获价值一百万美元的龙虾的话，基里巴斯只获得五万美元。在我看来，这可不是一桩好买卖。于是我在吃饭的时候问这位部长，说，“你会不会考虑一下通过另外一种方式来得到同样的收入—由我们来计算和分析被捕获的资源的价值—你只要把鱼类，鲨鱼和虾子留在水中不要捕杀就好？”他停下来，想一想，说，“当然，我们愿意这样做来解决我们的过度捕捞的问题，恩，我想，让我们叫它逆向捕鱼证吧。”他发明了逆向捕鱼证这个词汇。于是我也符合，“对，逆向捕鱼证。”
en:And I was free for dinner,and I went out to dinner with the Minister of Fisheries in Kiribati.And over the course of dinner,I learned that Kiribati gains most of its revenue —it&#39;s a very poor country —but it gains what revenue is hasby selling access to foreign nationsto take fish out of its waters,because Kiribati does not have the capacityto take the fish itself.And the deal that they strikeis the extracting countrygives Kiribati five percentof the landed value.So if the United Statesremoves a million dollars&#39;worth of lobsters from a reef,Kiribati gets 50,000 dollars.And, you know, it didn&#39;t seem like a very good deal to me.So I asked the Minister over dinner,I said, &quot;Would you consider a situationwhere you would still get paid —we do the math and figure out what the value of the resource is —but you leave fish and the sharksand the shrimp in the water?&quot;He stopped, and he said, &quot;Yes, we would like to do thatto deal with our overfishing problem,and I think we would call it a reverse fishing license.&quot;He coined the term &quot;reverse fishing license.&quot;So I said, &quot;Yes, a &#39;reverse fishing license.&#39;&quot;
时间：11:20
zh-cn:我们吃过饭离开以后，对于怎么做个计划毫无头绪。我回到美国，开始研究看能否找到一些例子，逆向捕鱼证已经被授予的先例。可是我一无所获。没有任何一个海洋方面的案例是关于哪个国家停止捕鱼受到津贴的。在陆地上曾有发生，在南美洲和非洲的热带雨林，土地拥有者因为不砍树而收到补偿。国际保护基金会已经处理过这样的案例。于是我找到国际保护基金会邀请他们参与进来，一起浏览整个过程：评估渔业资源，决定基里巴斯应该收到多少补贴，以及鱼类的种类，还吸引很多其他单位的参与—像澳大利亚政府，新西兰政府，世界银行。橡树基金会以及国家地理他们也是巨大的出资人。我们出于捐助的理念，基本上成立了这个保护区，补贴这个穷困的国家在捕鱼权方面失去的费用。以保持这个海域完好无缺。
en:So we walked away from this dinnerreally not knowing where to go at that point.I went back to the States and started looking aroundto see if I could find exampleswhere reverse fishing licenseshad been issued,and it turned out there were none.There were no oceanic dealswhere countries were compensated for not fishing.It had occurred on land,in rainforests of South America and Africa,where landowners had been paidnot to cut the trees down.And Conservation International had struck some of those deals.So I went to Conservation Internationaland brought them in as a partnerand went through the processof valuing the fishery resource,deciding how much Kiribati should be compensated,what the range of the fishes were,brought in a whole bunch of other partners —the government of Australia,the government of New Zealand, the World Bank.The Oak Foundation and National Geographichave been big funders of this as well.And we basically founded the parkon the idea of an endowmentthat would pay the equivalent lost fishing license feesto this very poor countryto keep the area intact.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:在这个过程中，我见过基里巴斯的总统，汤安诺总统—他是一位重要领袖，真正有远见，前瞻远瞩的人—当我接触他时，他告诉我两件事。他说，“格雷格，我想拜托你两件事。第一，记得我是一个政治家，因此你要和我的部长们合作，让基里巴斯人民信服。第二，我想请你建立相关法规，不受总统任期限制的法规。我可不想我一离开就半途而废。这样，我们拥有了强有力的领导团队，远见卓识，很多科学研究，还有众多律师的参与。花了很多努力才得以实现。这主要是因为基里巴斯认识到这和他们的切身利益息息相关。他们意识到他们和国际保护基金会不谋而合。
en:Halfway through this process, I met the president of Kiribati,President Anote Tong.He&#39;s a really important leader,a real visionary, forward-thinking man,and he told me two things when I approached him.He said, &quot;Greg, there&#39;s two things I&#39;d like you to do.One is, remember I&#39;m a politician,so you&#39;ve got to go out and work with my ministersand convince the people of Kiribati that this is a good idea.Secondly, I&#39;d like you to create principlesthat will transcend my own presidency.I don&#39;t want to do something like thisif it&#39;s going to go away after I&#39;m voted out of office.&quot;So we had very strong leadership, very good visionand a lot of science, a lot of lawyers involved.Many, many steps were taken to pull this off.And it was primarily because Kiribati realizedthat this was in their own self-interest to do this.They realized that this was a common causethat they had foundwith the conservation community.
时间：13:17
zh-cn:2002年，当我们全力推行到高潮的时候，在菲尼克斯群岛发生了珊瑚礁漂白事件。这正是我们试图拯救的资源，这个漂白事件是有记载起来海水温度最高的一次。海水有时会升温，高温点形成并正好出现在菲尼克斯群岛长达六个月。海水温度高于32摄氏度持续六个月呀。高温杀死了大约百分之六十的珊瑚。于是，本来我们是计划保护这个区域的，突然间它却奄奄一息，至少珊瑚成了这样。当然深海区域和开放水域是问题不大的。但是，人人都喜欢欣赏的珊瑚，却巍巍可及。不过，好消息就是，珊瑚后来恢复了。而且恢复得很迅速，比我们见到的任何珊瑚都快。这张照片是几个月前由布莱恩·斯科利拍得，当时我们返回菲尼克斯群岛，我们发现，因为它已经成为一个保护区域，它拥有了健康的鱼群使海藻落地生长并维持其余的珊瑚礁健康生长，珊瑚生长得繁茂，很快就恢复原状。这就像一个生病的人被多种疾病缠身，很不容易恢复健康，还有可能会死去，但是如果你只需要和一种疾病抗争，就可能恢复得快。这就是气候变化导致水温过热告诉我们的。温度是唯一的威胁，珊瑚礁唯一要面对的。没有过度捕捞，没有污染，没有填海工程，珊瑚礁可以全力复原。
en:Then in 2002,when this was all going full-swing,a coral-bleaching event happened in the Phoenix Islands.Here&#39;s this resource that we&#39;re looking to save,and it turns out it&#39;s the hottest heating eventthat we can find on record.The ocean heated up as it does sometimes,and the hot spot formed and stalledright over the Phoenix Islands for six months.It was over 32 degrees Celsius for six monthsand it basically killed60 percent of the coral.So suddenly we had this area that we were protecting,but now it appeared to be dead, at least in the coral areas.Of course the deep-sea areas and the open ocean areas were fine,but the coral, which everybody likes to look at, was in trouble.Well, the good news is it&#39;s recoveredand recovering fast,faster than any reef we&#39;ve seen.This picture was just taken by Brian Skerry a few months agowhen we returned to the Phoenix Islandsand discovered that, because it is a protected areaand has healthy fish populationsthat keep the algae grazed downand keep the rest of the reef healthy,the coral is booming, is just booming back.It&#39;s almost like if a personhas multiple diseases,it&#39;s hard to get well, you might die,but if you only have one disease to deal with, you can get better.And that&#39;s the story with climate-change heating.It&#39;s the only threat,the only influence that the reef had to deal with.There was no fishing, there was no pollution, there was no coastal development,and the reef is on a full-bore recovery.
时间：14:47
zh-cn:现在我记得十年前和渔业部长的晚餐，当我们在晚餐中第一次提出这个想法时，我特别兴奋和他们说：“部长，我想环境保护组织应该会喜欢这个理念。”他停下来，双手合十，回答说：“对的，格雷格，但是魔鬼藏在细节中，”他说道。的确如此。过去十年一直在处理不计其数的细节从建立相关法律到多种研究和勘探沟通计划，以及我说过的，律师团队，谅解备忘录啦，创建菲尼克斯信托委员会，目前我们所处的募集全额捐助的流程，基里巴斯已经停止所有外来捕捞活动当我们正在为其募集款项三周前，我们才召开了第一个菲尼克斯群岛保护区域会议。信托基金已经开始运作全速运转致力于和基里巴斯商榷逆向捕鱼证书的事宜由菲尼克斯群岛保护区域信托基金来持有该证书向基里巴斯补偿因禁止捕鱼造成的损失。目前已发展成为一套相当可靠，缜密以及十分稳定的体系。这也是一个至下而上的系统，这对于这项工作非常关键。至下而上来确保体系的完善。这里列出了几项成功的条件。大家可以看一下。不过我不得不说我脑海中最重要的一点是在这种情形下，在市场力量范畴内开展工作。才能保证我们得以继续向前，既保证了基里巴斯的自身利益也保全了世界利益。
en:Now I remember that dinner I had with the Minister of Fisheries 10 years agowhen we first brought this up and I got quite animated during the dinnerand said, &quot;Well, I think that the conservation communitymight embrace this idea, Minister.&quot;He paused and put his hands together and said,&quot;Yes, Greg,but the devil will be in the details,&quot; he said.And it certainly was.The last 10 years have been detail after detailranging from creating legislationto multiple research expeditionsto communication plans,as I said, teams of lawyers,MOUs,creating the Phoenix Islands Trust Board.And we are now in the process of raising the full endowment.Kiribati has frozen extracting activitiesat its current state while we raise the endowment.We just had our first PIPA Trust Board meeting three weeks ago.So it&#39;s a fully functionalup-and-running entitythat negotiates the reverse fishing license with the country.And the PIPA Trust Board holds that licenseand pays the country for this.So it&#39;s a very solid, very well thought-out,very well grounded system,and it was a bottom-up system,and that was very important with this work,from the bottom up to secure this.So the conditions for success here are listed.You can read them yourselves.But I would say the most important one in my mindwas working within the market forcesof the situation.And that insured that we could move this forwardand it would have both the self-interest of Kiribatias well as the self-interest of the world.
时间：16:16
zh-cn:我将播放最后一张投影片，即-我们如何推广保护区？如何实现西尔维娅的梦想？我们最终会收获什么？这是现在的太平洋有着巨大的海洋保护区，大片保护区域的太平洋。大家能看到，这样的星星点点的“补丁”遍布太平洋。我刚才只讲述了其中一个故事，就是中间那个矩形区域，菲尼克斯群岛。每个其他的绿色区域都有它自己的故事。现在我们要做的就是纵观整个太平洋作为一个整体，使其海洋保护区在真个太平洋行程一个网络。这样我们世界上最大的海洋才能得到应有的保护并自我维护长久可持续发展。
en:And I&#39;ll leave you with one final slide,that is: how do we scale this up?How do we realize Sylvia&#39;s dream?Where eventually do we take this?Here&#39;s the Pacificwith large MPAsand large conservation zones on it.And as you can see,we have a patchwork across this ocean.I&#39;ve just described to you the one storybehind that rectangular area in the middle, the Phoenix Islands,but every other green patch on thathas its own story.And what we need to do nowis look at the whole Pacific Oceanin its entiretyand make a network of MPAsacross the Pacificso that we have our world&#39;s largest oceanprotected and self-sustainingover time.
时间：17:03
zh-cn:非常感谢大家。
en:Thank you very much. (Applause)
