时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我今天将要讲述的是一种思路的转变从对自然的思索到建筑的形式。在建筑领域非常有趣的是，我们评判美的依据往往是自然，而且这也有据可循，美的建筑也经常是以自然为师的。
en:What I thought I would talk about todayis the transition from one modeof thinking about natureto another that&#39;s tracked by architecture.What&#39;s interesting about architects is,we always have tried to justify beautyby looking to nature,and arguably, beautiful architecturehas always been looking at a model of nature.
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:于是，将近三百年来，建筑学中最热门的话题总是究竟是数字五还是数字七是建筑学中的黄金分割。因为我们的鼻子长在头部的五分之一，而我们的头部占全身长度的七分之一。之所以用这一标准来衡量美以及自然是因为当时还没有发明小数点—直到十六世纪—人们丈量建筑时不得不使用比例关系，比如一个房间是一个立面的四分之一；如果结构基座是十个单位，要得到更小的单元可以进一步拆分：越拆越细，越拆越细。
en:So, for roughly 300 years,the hot debate in architecturewas whether the number fiveor the number sevenwas a better proportion to think about architecture,because the nose was one-fifth of your head,or because your head was one-seventh of your body.And the reason that that was the modelof beauty and of naturewas because the decimal point had not been invented yet —it wasn&#39;t the 16th century —and everybody had to dimension a buildingin terms of fractions,so a room would be dimensionedas one-fourth of a facade;the structural dais of that might be dimensioned as 10 units,and you would get down to the small elementsby fractional subdivision:finer and finer and finer.
时间： 1:21
zh-cn:十五世纪的时候，发明了小数点；建筑师们才不再使用比例，他们有了描绘自然的新模型。所以，我们现在使用的是基于自然形式的模型它基于微积分运算依据数字工具，这样更加丰富了我们对于美和形式的理解，还有我们理解大自然的方式。最好的例子应该就是哥特式建筑，而哥特式建筑在微积分发明之后出现，虽然哥特式建筑师们并不真正使用微积分定义模型。但重要的是，哥特时代的建筑是首次用形式来考量力与动态。
en:In the 15th century, the decimal point was invented;architects stopped using fractions,and they had a new model of nature.So, what&#39;s going on todayis that there&#39;s a model of natural formwhich is calculus-basedand which is using digital tools,and that has a lot of implicationsto the way we think about beauty and form,and it has a lot of implications in the way we think about nature.The best example of this would probably be the Gothic,and the Gothic was invented after the invention of calculus,although the Gothic architectsweren&#39;t really using calculus to define their forms.But what was important is,the Gothic moment in architecture was the first timethat force and motion was thought of in terms of form.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:以克里斯多弗 雷恩的国王十字车站为例，大家可以看到拱形结构的力量以线条的方式连接，所以真的可以看到结构力量和形式的表现。再看罗伯特 马亚尔的桥，其结构透过曲率运算的最佳形式得以表现，就像抛物线一样。再看建筑师安东尼高地的悬吊绳索模型，他是西班牙加泰隆建筑师。这是在十九世纪末二十世纪初时，令人感兴趣的是悬吊绳索模型如何被诠释为拱门和拱顶结构。所以，所有这些例子，结构是其决定因素。弗赖 奥托首次利用泡沫的气泡图解和气泡模型创造出了他的曼海姆音乐厅。有趣的是在过去这十年里诺曼 福斯特也使用了类似的热传导模型建造了国家艺术馆的屋顶，那是他与结构工程师克里斯 威廉姆斯合作的成果。
en:So, examples like Christopher Wren&#39;s King&#39;s Cross:you can see that the structural forces of the vaultingget articulated as lines, so you&#39;re really actually seeingthe expression of structural force and form.Much later, Robert Maillart&#39;s bridges,which optimize structural formwith a calculus curvature almost like a parabola.The Hanging Chain models of Antonio Gaudi,the Catalan architect.The end of the 19th century, beginning of the 20th century,and how that Hanging Chain modeltranslates into archwaysand vaulting.So, in all of these examples,structure is the determining force.Frei Otto was starting to use foam bubble diagramsand foam bubble models to generate his Mannheim Concert Hall.Interestingly, in the last 10 yearsNorman Foster used a similar heat thermal transfer modelto generate the roof of the National Gallery,with the structural engineer Chris Williams.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:在所有这些例子中，都有个理想模式，源于对结构因素的考虑。作为一名建筑师，我一直认为这种模式相当局限，因为我对理想模式并不感兴趣而且我也对最优化到某种完美境界不感兴趣。
en:In all these examples,there&#39;s one ideal form,because these are thought in terms of structure.And as an architect, I&#39;ve always found these kinds of systemsvery limiting, because I&#39;m not interested in ideal formsand I&#39;m not interested in optimizing to some perfect moment.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:所以，我展示给大家的是另一个值得我们思考的层面，每当我们想到自然，一般都是自然形体经过基因演化后的结果。我心中的英雄，并非达尔文，而是一个叫威廉 贝特森的人，他是格雷格 贝特森的父亲，一直住在蒙特里。你可以称他为畸形学家：他观测各种畸形和突变案例为了找寻其规律及法则，而非仅仅观察其基准。所以，与其寻找理想型或是理想均值，他总是寻找特例。所以，举例说，在贝特森定律这个例子中，他举出两种人类大拇指的突变基因。当我10年前第一眼看到这幅图的时候，我发现它非常奇怪，但同时也很美丽。美丽，是因为它具有对称性。所以，他发现在所有拇指突变的案例中，与仅有一个拇指所不同地，那些不是长出个反方向的拇指，要不就是四个手指（无拇指）。所以，突变就回归到对称了。据此，贝特森发明了对称断裂的概念，也就是说无论你在系统的某处丢失了信息，你都可以回归到对称。所以，对称并非代表秩序和组织—作为一名建筑师的我也一直这样认为，对称是信息缺失的象征。所以，一旦你丢失信息，你将趋向对称；当你往系统中添加信息时，就破坏了对称。于是，从此我们对于自然的想法开始转变从寻找理想模型到变成寻找一种组合一种信息和普通模式的组合。
en:So, what I thought I would bring up isanother component that needs to be thought of,whenever you think about nature,and that&#39;s basically the invention ofgeneric form in genetic evolution.My hero is actually not Darwin;it&#39;s a guy named William Bateson,father of Greg Bateson, who was here for a long time in Monterey.And he was what you&#39;d call a teratologist:he looked at all of the monstrosities and mutationsto find rules and laws, rather than looking at the norms.So, instead of trying to find the ideal typeor the ideal average,he&#39;d always look for the exception. So, in this example,which is an example of what&#39;s called Bateson&#39;s Rule,he has two kinds of mutations of a human thumb.When I first saw this image, 10 years ago,I actually found it very strange and beautiful at the same time.Beautiful, because it has symmetry.So, what he found is that in all cases of thumb mutations,instead of having a thumb,you would either get another opposable thumb,or you would get four fingers.So, the mutations reverted to symmetry.And Bateson inventedthe concept of symmetry breaking,which is thatwherever you lose information in a system,you revert back to symmetry.So, symmetry wasn&#39;t the sign of order and organization —which is what I was always understanding, and as is an architect —symmetry was the absence of information.So, whenever you lost information, you&#39;d move to symmetry;whenever you added information to a system, you would break symmetry.So, this whole idea of natural form shifted at that momentfrom looking for ideal shapesto looking for a combination ofinformation and generic form.
时间： 5:20
zh-cn:大家知道，看了那幅图，发现贝特森在研究什么之后，我们才开始利用这些规则研究对称断裂和其分支，开始思考建筑的形式。我们来稍微谈谈我们现在使用的数位方法及其如何与微积分整合：以微积分为基础的实质是我们不需要以理想的度量单位或是缜密的元素来考虑面积。
en:You know, literally after seeing that image,and finding out what Bateson was working with,we started to use these rules for symmetry breaking and branchingto start to think about architectural form.To just talk for a minute about thedigital mediums that we&#39;re using nowand how they integrate calculus:the fact that they&#39;re calculus-basedmeans that we don&#39;t have to think about dimensionin terms of ideal unitsor discreet elements.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:所以，在建筑界我们处理的是零件的大型装配，例如说可能有五万件材料构成了你所身处的这个房间，而这些材料都必须被妥善安置。一般而言，你可能认为这些材料都是一样的：例如你所坐的椅子尺寸应该都相同。我还没确认这件事，但根据标准规范每张椅子的尺寸应该略有不同，因为你需要将椅子错开排列，避免遮住后排视线。构成天花板和照明的元件，也都逐渐失去它们的基准特性，而变成极微小的尺度元素。那是因为我们都用微积分为工具来生产与设计。
en:So, in architecture we deal withbig assemblies of components,so there might be up to, say,50,000 pieces of materialin this room you&#39;re sitting in right nowthat all need to get organized.Now, typically you&#39;d think that they would all be the same:like, the chairs you&#39;re sitting in would all be the same dimension.You know, I haven&#39;t verified this, but it&#39;s the normthat every chair would be a slightly different dimension,because you&#39;d want to space them all out for everybody&#39;s sight lines.The elements that make up the ceiling grid and the lighting,they&#39;re all losing their modular quality,and moving more and more to these infinitesimal dimensions.That&#39;s because we&#39;re all using calculus toolsfor manufacturing and for design.
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:微积分也是一种曲线数学。所以，即使是直线，用微积分来定义则也必定是一种曲线，它只不过是没有弯曲的曲线。所以，有一种新形式的语汇正充斥在各种设计领域：无论是汽车、建筑、产品等等，都被这种以数位为媒介的曲率所影响。其中尺度的错综复杂 —就像鼻子与脸部的比例，都存在一种局部-整体的比例上的概念。就微积分而言，细部分割的想法就更为复杂了因为全体和局部是一个连续的序列。一大早上微积分课恐怕太辛苦了，所以我带了一些图片来示范它如何运作。
en:Calculus is also a mathematics of curves.So, even a straight line, defined with calculus, is a curve.It&#39;s just a curve without inflection.So, a new vocabulary of formis now pervading all design fields:whether it&#39;s automobiles, architecture, products, etc.,it&#39;s really being affected by this digital medium of curvature.The intricacies of scale that come out of that —you know, in the example of the nose to the face,there&#39;s a fractional part-to-whole idea.With calculus, the whole ideaof subdivision is more complex,because the whole and the parts are one continuous series.It&#39;s too early in the morning for a lecture on calculus,so I brought some images to just describe how that works.
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:这是我们设计的位于纽约市皇后区的韩国教堂。在这个例子中，你会看到这个梯子的元件是重复出现的，但却不是模型式的重复。这个结构中的每一个元素在距离和尺寸上都不一样，每个接点的角度也不同。我们能设计，或是建造出它的唯一办法，就是要使用该形体的微积分定义。这个形体十分动态，所以当你走过这个建筑时，你可以看到它随之以一种动态的方式打开与闭合，因为它由一种动态矢量建造而成。所以呈现为封闭量体的相同空间，从另外一侧看，却变成了开放的景观。同时你还会感受到空间中的视觉移动，因为每个元素都依据一定的样式而不断改变，所以这种样式会将你的视线带向圣坛。我认为这是一种重大的改变，就是，在建筑学中：我们并不再追寻像教堂里拉丁十字般的理想形式，而是教堂的所有特征：例如由背后投出的不知从何而来的光线，很自然让你聚焦至圣坛的方向。我们并不需要多么深奥的学问去设计、造就神圣的空间。你只需要用自然的方式去结合若干（本身的）特点即可。所以，这些是不同的关于内部的视觉，这些内部设计都具备一个非常复杂的定位结构却以一种简单的形式呈现。
en:This is a Korean church that we did in Queens.And in this example, you can seethat the components of this stair are repetitive,but they&#39;re repetitive without being modular.Each one of the elements in this structureis a unique distance and dimension,and all of the connections are unique angles.Now, the only way we could design that,or possibly construct it,is by using a calculus-based definitionof the form.It also is much more dynamic,so that you can see that the same form opens and closesin a very dynamic way as you move across it,because it has this quality of vector in motionbuilt into it.So the same space that appears to be a kind of closed volume,when seen from the other side becomes a kind of open vista.And you also get a sense ofvisual movement in the space,because every one of the elements is changing in a pattern,so that pattern leads your eye towards the altar.I think that&#39;s one of the main changes,also, in architecture:that we&#39;re starting to look now not for some ideal form,like a Latin cross for a church,but actually all the traits of a church:so, light that comes from behind from an invisible source,directionality that focuses you towards an altar.It turns out it&#39;s not rocket scienceto design a sacred space.You just need to incorporate a certain number of traitsin a very kind of genetic way.So, these are the different perspectives of that interior,which has a very complexset of orientations all in a simple form.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:就营造和构筑而言，这是个约莫一公里长的住宅街廓建于七零年代的阿姆斯特丹。我们将五百间公寓打散成为若干小型区域，并且区别这些区域。我不打算讲述太多关于这些计划的细节，但大家可以看到电扶梯和升降梯沿着建筑物表面循环输送人群它们是由一百二十二根结构桁架支撑。因为我们用电扶梯输送人群，这些构架承受了对角线方向的重量。所以，每根构架的形状都有些许差异尤其当沿着建筑物长轴移动时可以观察到。所以，我们在宾特利公司的微型工作站上撰写了一个订制的软件将所有元件以网路形式串连串联成一段信息，当我们沿着建筑物长轴变更任何元件时，不仅会连带改变整栋建筑的每根构架，这些构架还会将信息传递到建筑的整个表面。对建筑物的每个元件而言，我们所加上的都是独立的运算。所以，仅为了设计两组结构钢梁之间的接点就要进行千万次的运算。但它所赋与我们的是一种介于所有元件彼此之间的和谐与合成的关系。
en:In terms of construction and manufacturing,this is a kilometer-long housing blockthat was built in the &#39;70s in Amsterdam.And here we&#39;ve broken the 500 apartmentsup into small neighborhoods,and differentiated those neighborhoods.I won&#39;t go into too much description of any of these projects,but what you can see is thatthe escalators and elevatorsthat circulate people along the face of the buildingare all held up by122 structural trusses.Because we&#39;re using escalatorsto move people,all of these trusses are picking up diagonal loads.So, every one of them is a little bit different-shapedas you move down the length of the building.So, working withBentley and MicroStation,we&#39;ve written a custom piece of softwarethat networks all of the components togetherinto these chunks of information,so that if we change any elementalong the length of the building,not only does that change distributethrough each one of the trusses,but each one of the trusses then distributes that informationdown the length of the entire facade of the building.So it&#39;s a single calculationfor every single component of the buildingthat we&#39;re adding onto.So, it&#39;s tens of millions of calculationsjust to design one connection between a piece of structural steeland another piece of structural steel.But what it gives us is a harmonicand synthesizedrelationship of all these components, one to another.
时间：10:42
zh-cn:受到这想法影响，我也涉猎了一些产品设计方面的领域，因为不少与建筑师有合作关系的设计公司，例如，我目前合作的家具设计公司维特拉，和家庭用具设计公司阿莱西。他们认为这可以解决一个问题：区分元件，并使它们合成在一起。在此不是挑剔宝马，也不是称赞它，而是拿宝马当个例子。在二零零五年，他们必须要让所有类型的车款都具备鲜明的特征。譬如300系列或者任何一款新车，或者是即将推出的100系列，也都要看起来像他们产品线另一端的700系列，所以他们都需要一个鲜明而协调的特征,也就是宝马。同时，有人付三万美元买一辆300系列的车，也有人愿意花七万美元买一辆700系列的车，付了超过两倍价钱的那个人是不会希望他们的车看起来太像低端市场车款的。所以他们需要区别对待这些不同的商品。所以，当生产制造过程开始允许更多的设计选择，这个问题就更加严重了，对整体与局部而言都一样。
en:This idea has, kind of, brought me into doingsome product design,and it&#39;s because design firmsthat have connections to architects,like, I&#39;m working with Vitra, which is a furniture company,and Alessi, which is a houseware company.They saw this actually solving a problem:this ability to differentiate componentsbut keep them synthetic.So, not to pick on BMW,or to celebrate them,but take BMW as an example.They have to, in 2005,have a distinct identityfor all their models of cars.So, the 300 series, or whatever their newest car is,the 100 series that&#39;s coming out,has to look like the 700 series,at the other end of their product line,so they need a distinct, coherent identity,which is BMW.At the same time, there&#39;s a person paying 30,000 dollarsfor a 300-series car,and a person paying 70,000 dollarsfor a 700 series,and that person paying more than doubledoesn&#39;t want their car to look too much likethe bottom-of-the-market car.So they have to also discriminate between these products.So, as manufacturingstarts to allow moredesign options,this problem gets exacerbated,of the whole and the parts.
时间：12:02
zh-cn:身为建筑师，全体-局部的关系 —是我最关注的，但就产品设计来说也逐渐变成设计公司所需面对的问题了。我们首先拿来测试的产品是与阿莱西（注：意大利家用品制造商） 合作，是一套咖啡茶具组。那是一套相当昂贵的咖啡茶具组；我们打从一开始就知道了。所以，我拜访了圣地牙哥的一些朋友，我们采用钛金属爆炸成形法，这种方法多用在航太工业。基本上我们能做的，只是切割一个石墨模子，放进烤箱、加热至一千度，小心地对软化的钛金属充气，最终将其爆炸，成型。但最棒的是，产生形体只需花几百美金。钛金属要花几千美金，但产生形体则很廉价。所以我们设计了一个系统其中包括可以相互置换的八条曲线，和我刚才提到的建筑案例类似，接着我们将他们合并在一起，确保所得到的造型符合人体工程学理论同时有同样的体积而且能用同样的方式再造。这么一来，虽然这些工具的价值每个只有几百美金，却能产生元件之间令人意想不到的变化。这仅是诸多例子之一。所以对我来说，重要的是这组咖啡茶具组 —虽然只不过是一个咖啡壶、一个茶壶，放在托盘上的茶壶 —他们有一种一致性 —他们可以被称作格雷格 林恩阿莱西咖啡壶 —但每个购买这组茶具的人都会买到一组在某些特点上独一无二的设计
en:Now, as an architect, part-to-whole relationshipsis all I think about,but in terms of product designit&#39;s becoming more and more of an issue for companies.So, the first kind of test product we didwas with Alessi,which was for a coffee and tea set.It&#39;s an incredibly expensive coffee and tea set;we knew that at the beginning. So, I actually went to some people I knewdown south in San Diego,and we used an explodedtitanium forming methodthat&#39;s used in the aerospace industry.Basically what we can do,is just cut a graphite mold,put it in an oven, heat it to 1,000 degrees,gently inflate titanium that&#39;s soft,and then explode it at the last minute into this form.But what&#39;s great about it is,the forms are only a few hundred dollars.The titanium&#39;s several thousand dollars, but the forms are very cheap.So, we designed a system hereof eight curves that could be swapped,very similar to that housing project I showed you,and we could recombine those together,so that we always had ergonomic shapesthat always had the same volumeand could always be produced in the same way.That way, each one of these tools we could pay for witha few hundred dollars,and get incredible variation in the components.And this is one of those examples of the sets.So, for me, what was important is thatthis coffee set —which is just a coffee pot, a teapot,and those are the pots sitting on a tray —that they would have a coherence —so, they would be Greg Lynn Alessi coffee pots —but that everyone who bought onewould have a one-of-a-kind object that was unique in some way.
时间：13:42
zh-cn:谈回到建筑，对建筑学科来说有机的定义，不同于产品设计，在于机能整体性的问题以及不朽的价值，那才是我们的领域。像是我们所设计出来的通常是具有一致性的一个单一工程，但同时也区分为不同的房间而且无论在大尺度和小尺度上都能彰显个性。建筑师偏好处理识别性，所以建筑师需要识别性在房子的任一尺度下都要具备这种识别性大到摩天大楼都一样。处理识别性的问题是我们的专长而复杂度即建筑物各种元素间的关系，如建筑物外型、结构、窗户、颜色、样式等。这些都是实际的建筑问题。
en:To go back to architecture,what&#39;s organic about architecture as a field,unlike product design,is this whole issue of holismand of monumentality is really our realm.Like, we have to design things which are coherent as a single object,but also break down into small roomsand have an identity of both the big scaleand the small scale.Architects tend to work with signature,so that an architect needs a signatureand that signature has to work across the scale of housesup to, say, skyscrapers,and that problem of signatures is a thing we&#39;re very good at maintainingand working with; and intricacy,which is the relationship of, say,the shape of a building, its structure, its windows,its color, its pattern. These are real architectural problems.
时间：14:33
zh-cn:所以自然界在这方面我所崇拜的是热带雨蛙。我对他们感兴趣的原因是他们极为特殊的表皮以及纹理 — 姑且称作装饰吧 —虽然雨蛙不这么认为，但它呈现出来的的确是装饰—这些复杂的纹理彼此相互连结。当雨蛙的形体有所改变身上的花纹随之变化所以，花纹和型态虽然不是同一件事，但他们却以一种独特的方式彼此融合、交互运作。所以呢，当我设计哥斯大黎加国家公园旅客中心时，我们尝试运用渐层色以及以及纹理变化的想法使建筑随着结构的不同而有所改变。我们也让变化连续从展览大厅延续到自然历史博物馆，所以连续变化是整体性的横跨建筑量体。然而在量体之内，空间和形式却大异其趣
en:So, my kind of hero for this in the natural worldare these tropical frogs.I got interested in them because they&#39;re the mostextreme exampleof a surface wherethe texture and the — let&#39;s call it the decoration —I know the frog doesn&#39;t think of it as decoration, but that&#39;s how it works —are all intricately connected to one another.So a change in the formindicates a change in the color pattern.So, the pattern and the form aren&#39;t the same thing,but they really work together and are fusedin some way.So, when doing a centerfor the national parks in Costa Rica,we tried to use that idea of a gradient colorand a change in textureas the structure moves across the surface of the building.We also used a continuity of changefrom a main exhibition hall to a natural history museum,so it&#39;s all one continuous changein the massing,but within that massing are very different kinds of spaces and forms.
时间：15:36
zh-cn:在西班牙瓦伦西亚的住宅这一案例里，我们尝试将不同的住宅高楼融合在一起使其外围曲线呈现一致性，结合为单一量体，就像一整块石头般，但其实它却由不同单元组合而成。这种量的变化同时也给所有四十八个住宅单元独特的形状与大小，却总在一个被控制的有限制的变化外壳中。
en:In a housing project in Valencia, Spain, we&#39;re doing,the different towers of housing fused togetherin shared curves so you get a single mass,like a kind of monolith,but it breaks down into individual elements.And you can see that that change in massingalso gives all 48 of the apartmentsa unique shape and size,but always within a, kind of, controlled limit,an envelope of change.
时间：16:08
zh-cn:我和一群建筑师共事，我们的公司叫做联合建筑师。我们的作品曾进入纽约世贸大楼原址竞图案决选。我认为这展示了我们想尝试超大型建筑的想法。我们想在世贸大楼原址的基地周围建筑一种哥德式教堂。为了实现这个想法，我们尝试将五栋大楼连结为单一系统。我们发现，从一九五零年代开始，已经有不少建筑师尝试做与此相同的事情。我们的作法是以建筑物的类型为基础，也就是我们本可以使五栋原本分离的大楼，在六十楼的位置相连结成为一个单一的巨型个体。联合建筑师事务所也参与了欧洲中央银行总部的设计提案，在那我们也采用了相同系统，但这个提案的单一量体更大，就像一颗球。但是，你所看到的这种复合建筑元素的有机融合方法使得事物以一种令人惊异的有机方式建构为一个整体，其构成单元又能独立存在。
en:I work with a group of other architects.We have a company called United Architects.We were one of the finalists for the World Trade Center site design.And I think this just shows howwe were approachingthe problem of incredibly large-scale construction.We wanted to make a kind of Gothic cathedralaround the footprints of the World Trade Center site.And to do that, we tried to connect upthe five towers into a single system.And we looked at, from the 1950s on,there were numerous examples of other architectstrying to do the same thing.We really approached it at the levelof the typology of the building,where we could build these five separate towers,but they would all join at the 60th floorand make a kind of single monolithic mass.With United Architects, also,we made a proposal for the European Central Bank headquartersthat used the same system,but this time in a much more monolithic mass,like a sphere.But again, you can see this, kind of,organic fusionof multiple building elementsto make a thing which is whole, but breaks down into smaller parts,but in an incredibly organic way.
时间：17:23
zh-cn:最后，我想让大家看看利用数位制造技术的影响。大约六年前，我买了一部电脑数字控制雕铣机，原本是为了防止年轻人做建筑模型时频繁发生的手指切割意外。我也买了一部雷射切割机在我自己的店里用作模型制作，类似大型建筑元件与模型的制作，方便大家直接使用各种工具。我发现在工具使用上，如果加上软件的介入，可以制造出装饰效果。所以像是室内设计，例如这个瑞典斯德哥尔摩的商店，或者荷兰建筑学会的装置墙面设计，我们会用工具所留下的质感来产生不错的空间效果，我们可以利用此材料将墙壁的纹理和形式整合起来。同样地适用于真空成形塑胶、玻璃纤维、甚至结构钢材，这些都被视为是线性、模矩化的建材。目前，制钢业远领先于设计行业。如果你想利用它，你甚至可以想像得到那些滚轴和圆柱堆在一起，形成一个不仅高效率，又充满装饰感，以及包含一种有机美的，统一的系统。非常感谢。
en:Finally, I&#39;d like to just show yousome of the effects of using digital fabrication.About six years ago, I bought one of these CNC mills,to just replace, kind of,young people cutting their fingers off all the time building models.And I also bought a laser cutterand started to fabricate within my own shop,kind of, large-scale building elements and models,where we could go directly to the tooling.What I found out is that the tooling,if you intervened in the software,actually produced decorative effects.So, for these interiors, like this shop in Stockholm, Sweden,or this installation wall in the Netherlandsat the Netherlands Architecture Institute,we could use the texture that the tool would leaveto produce a lot of the spatial effects,and we could integrate the texture of the wallwith the form of the wall with the material.So, in vacuum-formed plastic, in fiberglass,and then even at the level of structural steel,which you think of as being linear and modular.The steel industry is so farahead of the design industrythat if you take advantage of ityou can even start to think of beams and columnsall rolled together into a single systemwhich is highly efficient,but also produces decorative effectsand formal effectsthat are very beautiful and organic.Thanks very much.
