时间： 0:11
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：我们今天来是想讲讲木偶战马的进化
en:Adrian Kohler: Well, we&#39;re here todayto talk about the evolution of a puppet horse.
时间： 0:17
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：事实上我们想以木偶鬣狗来开篇
en:Basil Jones: But actually we&#39;re going to start this evolutionwith a hyena.
时间： 0:22
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：也就是木偶战马的先祖现在我们要表演了（笑声）哈哈这个木偶鬣狗是木偶战马的先祖因为它是整个制作的一部分叫做“非洲的浮士德”是我们回春手公司1995年的作品用来在海伦特洛伊一剧中拖载重物这个作品是由一个南非的艺术家和剧场导演来指导的威廉 肯持觉所以这个鬣狗需要有非常灵敏的前爪但是就像所有的木偶一样，它也有其他的特性
en:AK: The ancestor of the horse.Okay, we&#39;ll do something with it.(Laughter)Hahahaha.The hyena is the ancestor of the horsebecause it was part of a productioncalled &quot;Faustus in Africa,&quot;a Handspring Production from 1995,where it had to play draughts with Helen of Troy.This production was directedby South African artist and theater director,William Kentridge.So it needed a very articulate front paw.But, like all puppets, it has other attributes.
时间： 1:50
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：其中之一就是呼吸它能呼吸
en:BJ: One of them is breath,and it kind of breathes.
时间： 1:55
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：（呼吸声）
en:AK: Haa haa haaa.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：呼吸对我们是很重要的在舞台上对木偶来说这是一个非常基本的动作这是区分木偶-
en:BJ: Breath is really important for us.It&#39;s the kind of original movementfor any puppet for us onstage.It&#39;s the thing that distinguishes the puppet —
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：不好！
en:AK: Oops.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：和演员的基本原则木偶总是试图活过来的这是它们台上的挣扎它们对生命的渴望
en:BJ: From an actor.Puppets always have to try to be alive.It&#39;s their kind of ur-story onstage,that desperation to live.
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：这是个没有生命的物体，像大家看到的它只有在你使它活过来的时候才有生命演员试图在台上演死去木偶在台上试图活过来这也是一种生命的隐喻
en:AK: Yeah, it&#39;s basically a dead object, as you can see,and it only livesbecause you make it.An actor struggles to die onstage,but a puppet has to struggle to live.And in a way that&#39;s a metaphor for life.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：所以每时每刻在舞台上，它都会试着试图活下去。我们管它叫做一个情感工程它使用最新的十七世纪的技术-（笑声）来把名词变成动词
en:BJ: So every moment it&#39;s on the stage, it&#39;s making the struggle.So we call thisa piece of emotional engineeringthat uses up-to-the-minute17th century technology —(Laughter)to turn nounsinto verbs.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：其实我想说这是个物体由木头和布做的当我们融入动作就能诱使你相信它是有生命的
en:AK: Well actually I prefer to saythat it&#39;s an objectconstructed out of wood and clothwith movement built into itto persuade you to believe that it has life.
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：好的
en:BJ: Okay so.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：当它的头转的时候耳朵能跟着移动
en:AK: It has ears that move passivelywhen the head goes.
时间： 3:15
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：它有这些隔板都是压合板作的覆上布料-事实上和艾德里安的父亲还是个孩童时在工作间里做的压板独木舟出奇地相似
en:BJ: And it has these bulkheadsmade out of plywood,covered with fabric —curiously similar, in fact,to the plywood canoesthat Adrian&#39;s father used to makewhen he was a boy in their workshop.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：在伊丽莎白港，港外的小村庄里
en:AK: In Port Elizabeth, the village outside Port Elizabeth in South Africa.
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：他的妈妈是一个木偶剧演员我们在1971年在艺术学院相识相爱我当时讨厌木偶总觉得它们很低贱我想成为特别前卫的艺术家-《庞奇和朱迪》可我绝对不想做的事实上，我花了十年
en:BJ: His mother was a puppeteer.And when we met at art schooland fell in lovein 1971,I hated puppets.I really thought they were so beneath me.I wanted to become an avant-garde artist —and Punch and Judy was certainly not where I wanted to go.And, in fact, it took about 10 years
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:来发掘非洲西部的马里的特有木偶那里有令人惊叹的木偶制作传统从而领会到了更新的，或者说是全新的对于木偶艺术的崇敬
en:to discoverthe Bambara Bamana puppets of Mali in West Africa,where there&#39;s a fabulous tradition of puppetry,to learn a renewed, or a new, respectfor this art form.
时间： 4:11
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：在1981年，我劝服贝索和我的一些朋友成立了一个木偶公司二十年后，出乎意料地我们和马里的公司合作巴马口的艺术团制作出了一个长颈鹿木偶名字叫做“高马”的，是一个真长颈鹿大小的木偶
en:AK: So in 1981, I persuaded Basil and some friends of mineto form a puppet company.And 20 years later, miraculously,we collaborated with a company from Mali,the Sogolon Marionette Troupe of Bamako,where we made a piece about a tall giraffe.It was just called &quot;Tall Horse,&quot; which was a life-sized giraffe.
时间： 4:29
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：这里，你可以看到同样的结构但换做用藤蔓做主框架，但是差不多是一样的结构它需要在里面藏两个人，踩着高跷把他们拔高一个人在前面用方向盘来移动头部
en:BJ: And here again, you see the same structure.The bulkheads have now turned into hoops of cane,but it&#39;s ultimately the same structure.It&#39;s got two people inside it on stilts,which give them the height,and somebody in the frontwho&#39;s using a kind of steering wheel to move that head.
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：一个人在后腿这里同时掌控尾巴，就像是鬣狗一样-同样的工艺`，只是更大些他还能掌握耳朵的动作
en:AK: The person in the hind legsis also controlling the tail, a bit like the hyena —same mechanism, just a bit bigger.And he&#39;s controlling the ear movement.
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：这个制作被在伦敦的国家剧团的汤姆 摩瑞斯看到了差不多也是这个时候他的母亲说：“你有没有看过麦克 莫普构的书叫做“战马”的？”
en:BJ: So this productionwas seen by Tom Morrisof the National Theatre in London.And just around that time,his mother had said,&quot;Have you seen this book by Michael Morpurgocalled &#39;War Horse&#39;?&quot;
时间： 5:15
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：这是个关于一个男孩爱上一匹马的故事这匹马被卖到去参加一次世界大战这个男孩就参了军去找到了他的马
en:AK: It&#39;s about a boy who falls in love with a horse.The horse is sold to the First World War,and he joins up to find his horse.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：这样汤姆就给我们打了个电话说“你觉得你能不能给我们作匹马在国家剧院演戏用？”
en:BJ: So Tom gave us a call and said,&quot;Do you think you could make us a horsefor a show to happen at the National Theatre?&quot;
时间： 5:28
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：这主意听起来妙极了
en:AK: It seemed a lovely idea.
时间： 5:30
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：但是这马得能骑，它得有个骑士
en:BJ: But it had to ride. It had to have a rider.
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：不错，它得有个骑士它还得加入骑兵队（笑声）对于伦敦的国家剧院来说一个二十世纪初的耕技术和骑兵团的费用是有点超支了但是他们同意看看发展再说所以们就开始试验了
en:AK: It had to have a rider,and it had to participate in cavalry charges.(Laughter)A play about early 20th century plowing technologyand cavalry chargeswas a little bit of a challenge for the accounting departmentat the National Theatre in London.But they agreed to go along with it for a while.So we began with a test.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：这是艾德里安和塞斯 斯丹德他们是马的藤圈系统的设计者我们的邻居卡瑟琳在梯子上的这样的重量在悬在头顶的时候是非常吃重的
en:BJ: This is Adrian and Thys Stander,who went on to actually design the cane system for the horse,and our next-door neighbor Katherine,riding on a ladder.The weight is really difficult when it&#39;s up above your head.
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：一旦我们逼着卡瑟琳经历了这个特别的“炼狱”我们就意识到我们可能能够作出一个能被骑的马来所以我们做了个模型是个纸板模型比鬣狗稍小一点你能看到这些腿都是压合板的也使用了独木舟式的结构
en:AK: And once we put Katherinethrough that particular brand of hell,we knew that we might be able to make a horse, which could be ridden.So we made a model.This is a cardboard model,a little bit smaller than the hyena.You&#39;ll notice that the legs are plywood legsand the canoe structure is still there.
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：两个操纵者在里面当时我们没有意识到我们其实需要第三个操纵者因为我们不能从里面控制脖子的运动同时也让马行走
en:BJ: And the two manipulators are inside.But we didn&#39;t realize at the timethat we actually needed a third manipulator,because we couldn&#39;t manipulate the neckfrom insideand walk the horse at the same time.
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：在设计模型通过后，我们开始作雏形制作雏形很费了些时间比我们想象中长我们必须放弃原来的压合板马腿，改用藤制的我们还得给雏形做个大箱子它得被运往伦敦我们原本想在我们克珀城外的道路上试跑但是一直忙到半夜我们也没顾得上试跑一回
en:AK: We started work on the prototypeafter the model was approved,and the prototype took a bit longerthan we anticipated.We had to throw out the plywood legs and make new cane ones.And we had a crate built for it.It had to be shipped to London.We were going to test-drive it on the street outside of our house in Cape Town,and it got to midnight and we hadn&#39;t done that yet.
时间： 6:58
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：我们拿了照像机把木偶马摆出奔腾的立像（大照特照）然后把照片都寄到国家剧院希望他们能一见之下就相信我们真的是造出了能动的东西（笑声）
en:BJ: So we got a camera,and we posed the puppetin various galloping stances.And we sent it offto the National Theatre,hoping that they believedthat we created something that worked.(Laughter)
时间： 7:19
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：一个月后，我们在伦敦带着这个大盒子，和一整个剧院的人等着和我们合作呢
en:AK: A month later, we were there in Londonwith this big box and a studio full of people about to work with us.
时间： 7:25
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：总共四十个人
en:BJ: About 40 people.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：我们可害怕了我们打开盖子，把马拿出来它居然真的能动，能走能骑这里我有一个十八秒钟的录像是这个雏形第一次走路的录像这是国家剧院的剧场人们酝酿新题材的地方当时我们还没有过关呢舞蹈指导托比 萨剧维克设计了一系列优美的动作这个小马整个由木签和细棍做成慢慢长大变成壮年的马尼克 斯达，国家剧院的导演看到了这个片段-他当时站在我身边-他差点尿了裤子就这样这个表演就通过了我们回到克珀城，重新设计了整匹马。现在说说我们的计划
en:AK: We were terrified.We opened the lid, we took the horse out,and it did work; it walked and it was able to be ridden.Here I have an 18-second clipof the very first walk of the prototype.This is in the National Theatre studio,the place where they cook new ideas.It had by no means got the green light yet.The choreographer, Toby Sedgwick,invented a beautiful sequencewhere the baby horse,which was made out of sticks and bits of twigs,grew up into the big horse.And Nick Starr, the director of the National Theatre,saw that particular moment, he was standing next to me — he nearly wet himself.And so the show was given the green light.And we went back to Cape Town and redesigned the horse completely.Here is the plan.
时间： 8:18
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:22
zh-cn:这是克珀城我们的工厂我们在那里造马你可以看到背景中很多骨架这些马都是手工制作的二十世纪的科技含量很少我们用激光切割压合板和一些铝片因为这些马必须要很轻，可塑性强每匹马都不完全一样很不幸，它们不能被批量生产出来这里是一些半成品正在伦敦加工现在我们想为大家介绍乔伊乔伊，你在哪里？乔伊（掌声）（掌声）乔伊乔伊，到这里来我这里没有（吃的）他口袋里有
en:And here is our factory in Cape Townwhere we make horses.You can see quite a lot of skeletons in the background there.The horses are completely handmade.There is very little 20th century technology in them.We used a bit of laser cutting on the plywoodand some of the aluminum pieces.But because they have to be light and flexible,and each one of them is different,they can&#39;t be mass-produced, unfortunately.So here are some half-finished horsesready to be worked in London.And now we would like to introduce youto Joey.Joey boy, you there?Joey.(Applause)(Applause)Joey.Joey, come here.No, no, I haven&#39;t got it.He&#39;s got it; it&#39;s in his pocket.
时间：10:12
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：乔伊艾德里安 科勒：乔伊乔伊乔伊乔伊来这里，站在这里，大家都能看见你转一圈，来吧我想和大家描述一下-我会轻轻地讲，要不乔伊该发脾气了这里， 克莱格在控制马的头他用的是自行车的闸线每条都汇集到他手里的头部的控制中心每条线分别管一个耳朵或者是头部上下动他也用他的手直接控制整个头部耳朵显然是对展示了马的表情非常重要的当耳朵向后指说明马不是害怕就是愤怒取决于马的面前，或者周围有什么或者当马放松的时候，头会垂下来耳朵会听，指向两边马的听觉十分常重要的几乎比它们的视觉更重要大家看这里汤姆掌握了所谓的心脏部位他驱使马的腿请看这里的弦腱像在鬣狗的前腿里一样自动把环拉起来（笑声）马是很不好预测的（笑声）马扬前蹄马上就给你一种真的马的动作的感觉后腿也有相似的动作
en:BJ: Joey.AK: Joey, Joey, Joey, Joey.Come here. Stand here where people can see you.Move around. Come on.I&#39;d just like to describe —I won&#39;t talk too loud. He might get irritated.Here, Craig is working the head.He has bicycle brake cablesgoing down to the head control in his hand.Each one of themoperates either an ear, separately,or the head, up and down.But he also controls the head directlyby using his hand.The ears are obviouslya very important emotional indicator of the horse.When they point right back,the horse is fearful or angry,depending upon what&#39;s going on in front of him, around him.Or, when he&#39;s more relaxed, the head comes downand the ears listen, either side.Horses&#39; hearing is very important.It&#39;s almost more important than their eyesight.Over here,Tommy&#39;s got what you call the heart position.He&#39;s working the leg.You see the string tendon from the hyena,the hyena&#39;s front leg,automatically pulls the hoop up.(Laughter)Horses are so unpredictable.(Laughter)The way a hoof comes up with a horseimmediately gives you the feelingthat it&#39;s a convincing horse action.The hind legs have got the same action.
时间：12:20
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：迈克还有在他的手指里控制马尾巴的能力能让尾巴左右摆另一只手能控制尾巴上下动合在一起，带给尾巴的表情很复杂的组合
en:BJ: And Mikey also has,in his fingers,the ability to move the tailfrom left to right,and up and down with the other hand.And together, there&#39;s quite a complex possibilityof tail expression.
时间：12:35
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：你想说说关于呼吸的部分么？
en:AK: You want to say something about the breathing?
时间：12:37
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯：我们在呼吸的模拟上撞了南墙艾德里安以为他必须要把木偶的胸部剖成两半才能做出呼吸-因为这是真的马呼吸的样子，胸部扩张但是我们发现如果这样做作为观众的你们是看不到的所以他在这里做了个通道这样胸腔就在通道里上下动这个和自然的动作是相悖的，上下动但是看起来更像呼吸所以就非常简单就解决了只需要表演者的膝盖运动，马就呼吸了
en:BJ: We had a big challenge with breathing.Adrian thoughtthat he was going to have to split the chest of the puppet in twoand make it breathe like that —because that&#39;s how a horse would breathe, with an expanded chest.But we realizedthat, if that were to be happening,you wouldn&#39;t, as an audience, see the breath.So he made a channel in here,and the chest moves up and down in that channel.So it&#39;s anti-naturalistic really, the up and down movement,but it feels like breath.And it&#39;s very, very simplebecause all that happensis that the puppeteer breathes with his knees.
时间：13:16
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：另一个表情如果我在马这里按下去在它的皮肤上核心的表演者能够从身体里面摇动使整个皮肤抖动你能看到，当然了这个木偶是用藤线作的我希望你理解这是个审美的选择我在画这个马的三维立体图的时候选择的为了能让它在空中腾跃当然了，这里用的藤线很轻也很有弹性，很经用藤线的可塑性也很强选用藤线还有一个很实际的原因
en:AK: Other emotional stuff.If I were to touch the horse hereon his skin,the heart puppeteer can shake the body from insideand get the skin to quiver.You&#39;ll notice, of course,that the puppet is made out of cane lines.And I would like you to believe that it was an aesthetic choice,that I was making a three-dimensional drawing of a horsethat somehow moves in space.But of course, it was the cane is light,the cane is flexible, the cane is durableand the cane is moldable.And so it was a very practical reason why it was made of cane.
时间：13:48
zh-cn:就是这块皮肤自己是用透明的尼龙网作的如果灯光师想让这个马在舞坛上消失她可以在背景打灯马就好像是幽灵一样你只能看见马的骨骼如果你从下面打灯，它就变得更实际一些所以说这是个实际考虑马里面的表演者必须能够看得见外面他们需要及时作出反应和表演中的其他的演员演对手每时每刻他们都要能够跟得上这三个臭皮匠顶个诸葛亮啊
en:The skin itselfis made out of a see-through nylon mesh,which, if the lighting designerwants the horse to almost disappear,she can light the backgroundand the horse becomes ghostlike.You see the skeletal structure of it.Or if you light it from above, it becomes more solid.Again, that was a practical consideration.The guys inside the horse have to be able to see out.They have to be able to actalong with their fellow actors in the production.And it&#39;s very much an in-the-moment activity that they&#39;re engaged in.It&#39;s three heads making one character.
时间：14:23
zh-cn:现在我想让你们让乔伊跑起来现在站住
en:But now we would like you to put Joey through some paces.And plant.
时间：15:09
zh-cn:（马嘶声）
en:(Whinny)
时间：15:21
zh-cn:谢谢你们现在-（掌声）从加州的阳光海岸远道而来的泽姆 乔安坤将要为我们表演骑马
en:Thank you.And now just —(Applause)All the way from sunny Californiawe have Zem Joaquinwho&#39;s going to ride the horse for us.
时间：15:39
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：16:34
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：16:44
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：17:05
zh-cn:我们想强调的是你现在看到的骑马表演是三个人的协作每个人都仔细研究了马的行为
en:So we would like to stressthat the performance you see in the horseis three guyswho have studied horse behavior incredibly thoroughly.
时间：17:14
zh-cn:贝索 琼斯他们在台上时是不能够互相交谈的因为他们都有麦克风这里的音效，马的嘶鸣-轻声嘶鸣和大声嘶吼等等-都是由一个表演者发起的然后第二个人接上去第三个人结束
en:BJ: Not being able to talk to one anotherwhile they&#39;re onstagebecause they&#39;re mic&#39;d.The sound that that very large chest makes, of the horse —the whinnying and the nickering and everything —that starts usually with one performer,carries on with a second personand ends with a third.
时间：17:33
zh-cn:艾德里安 科勒：迈克 伯瑞特，来自莱斯特（掌声）迈克 伯瑞特，克莱格，里奥，泽姆 乔安坤， 贝索和我自己
en:AK: Mikey Brett from Leicestershire.(Applause)Mikey Brett, Craig, Leo,Zem Joaquin and Basil and me.
时间：17:49
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:52
zh-cn:谢谢，谢谢大家
en:Thank you. Thank you.
时间：17:54
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
