时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们现在正在经历着一个惊人的,史无前例的时刻男人和女人之间的力量正在迅速地转换着。并且在很多重要的地方，女性，实际上，控制着一切。在我母亲的那个时代，她没有上过大学。大部分女性都没上大学。然而如今，在五个获得大学学位的人中，两名是男性而三名是女性。女性，这一年头一次，成为了美国劳动力的多数。并且她们逐渐开始主导很多职业—医生，律师，银行家，会计师。目前超过百分之五十的经理是女性。预计将在未来十年中发展最快的十五个行业中，有十三个行业被女性主导。也就是说在全球经济上女性比男性更加成功。信不信由你，这些经济变化将迅速地影响我们的文化—影响我们的浪漫喜剧，我们的婚姻，我们的恋爱，和我们新一代的超级英雄。
en:We are now going through an amazing and unprecedented momentwhere the power dynamics between men and womenare shifting very rapidly,and in many of the places where it counts the most,women are, in fact, taking control of everything.In my mother&#39;s day, she didn&#39;t go to college.Not a lot of women did.And now, for every two men who get a college degree,three women will do the same.Women, for the first time this year,became the majority of the American workforce.And they&#39;re starting to dominate lots of professions —doctors, lawyers,bankers, accountants.Over 50 percent of managers are women these days,and in the 15 professionsprojected to grow the most in the next decade,all but two of them are dominated by women.So the global economy is becoming a placewhere women are more successful than men,believe it or not,and these economic changesare starting to rapidly affect our culture —what our romantic comedies look like,what our marriages look like,what our dating lives look like,and our new set of superheroes.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:很长一段时间，占主导地位的美国男子气概的形象是这样的—坚韧的，粗犷的，能够控制他的周围环境。几年前，这个万宝路男人退休了并且被这个给人印象不深的家伙，一个恶搞美国男子气概的人所替代了。这就是我们现在的广告。&#39;头胎生子&#39;的俗语是如此根深蒂固地在我们的意识中以至于这个统计数据使我十分震惊。在美国生育诊所，百分之七十五的夫妇希望生个女孩而非男孩。在一些你想象不到的地方，如，韩国，印度和中国，这些非常严谨的父系社会体系正被打破，而这些家庭们也不再强烈地偏好儿子。
en:For a long time, this is the image of American manhood that dominated —tough, rugged,in control of his own environment.A few years ago, the Marlboro Man was retiredand replaced by thismuch less impressive specimen,who is a parody of American manhood,and that&#39;s what we have in our commercials today.The phrase &quot;first-born son&quot;is so deeply ingrained in our consciousnessthat this statistic alone shocked me.In American fertility clinics,75 percent of couplesare requesting girls and not boys.And in places where you wouldn&#39;t think,such as South Korea, India and China,the very strict patriarchal societiesare starting to break down a little,and families are no longerstrongly preferring first-born sons.
时间： 1:56
zh-cn:如果你想到这些，如果你向这些可能性睁开你的眼睛并且开始连接这些点，你可以看见证据无所不在。你可以看见它体现在大学的毕业形势中，在工作规划中，在我们的婚姻统计中，在后面你也会看到，还体现在冰岛的大选中，而且你可以从韩国对儿子的偏好的调查数据中，看到关于女性的一些惊人的史无前例的事件正在发生。当然这不是女性第一次的巨大进步。又比如二十年代和六十年代。但不同的是，在当时，是被一个试图实现自身欲望的非常激烈的女性运动所驱动,而这次，不是关于激情，也不是关于什么运动。这真的是仅仅关于我们现在所处的经济状态的现实。这二十万年男人当权的时代正走向尽头，信不信由你，这就是为什么我说是男人的尽头。
en:If you think about this, if you just open your eyes to this possibilityand start to connect the dots,you can see the evidence everywhere.You can see it in college graduation patterns,in job projections,in our marriage statistics,you can see it in the Icelandic elections, which you&#39;ll hear about later,and you can see it on South Korean surveys on son preference,that something amazing and unprecedentedis happening with women.Certainly this is not the first time that we&#39;ve had great progress with women.The &#39;20s and the &#39;60s also come to mind.But the difference is that, back then,it was driven by a very passionate feminist movementthat was trying to project its own desires,whereas this time, it&#39;s not about passion,and it&#39;s not about any kind of movement.This is really just about the factsof this economic moment that we live in.The 200,000-year periodin which men have been top dogis truly coming to an end, believe it or not,and that&#39;s why I talk about the &quot;end of men.&quot;
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:所有在座的各位男士，现在并不用漠视我或扔给我西红柿，因为重点是这正发生在我们每个人身上。我有一位丈夫和一位父亲和两个我深爱着的儿子。这也正是为什么我想谈论这个，因为如果我们不承认它，那么这个演变将会十分地痛苦。但是如果我们重视它，我认为它将演变的更加平稳。我第一次考虑到这件事的时候大约是在一年半之前。我和所有人一样在阅读关于经济萎靡的头条新闻，我发现了一个独特的模式—经济衰退影响男人的程度大于对女人的影响程度。我还记得大约十年前当我在读苏珊·法露迪的“失信：美国男人的背叛”这本书书中她描述了经济衰退是如何剧烈地影响男人们。我于是开始想是否这次经济衰退更糟呢？然后我意识到了这次有两件事情不同。第一件事就是经济衰退带给男人们的不再是暂时的冲击—这映射出我们全球经济的深层的变化。第二，这不再仅仅是男人们的危机，还对女人们产生了影响。
en:Now all you men out there,this is not the moment where you tune out or throw some tomatoes,because the point is that thisis happening to all of us.I myself have a husband and a fatherand two sons whom I dearly love.And this is why I like to talk about this,because if we don&#39;t acknowledge it,then the transition will be pretty painful.But if we do take account of it,then I think it will go much more smoothly.I first started thinking about this about a year and a half ago.I was reading headlines about the recession just like anyone else,and I started to notice a distinct pattern —that the recession was affecting menmuch more deeply than it was affecting women.And I remembered back to about 10 years agowhen I read a book by Susan Faludicalled &quot;Stiffed: The Betrayal of the American Man,&quot;in which she described how hard the recession had hit men,and I started to think aboutwhether it had gotten worse this time around in this recession.And I realized that two things were different this time around.The first was thatthese were no longer just temporary hitsthat the recession was giving men —that this was reflecting a deeperunderlying shift in our global economy.And second, that the story was no longerjust about the crisis of men,but it was also about what was happening to women.
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:现在请看第二组幻灯片。这些标题是关于接下来的几年内女性们将发生什么样的变化。有些事情是我们在过去这些年从未想到过的。女人，劳动力的主体。劳动力统计结果：女性占据大部分的管理层工作。第二个标题：你可以看到家庭和婚姻正在开始发生变化。再来看看最后一个标题：年轻女性比年轻男性挣的更多。这个标题来源于一个市场调查公司。他们被一个客户询问谁将购买那样一个街区的房子。他们预测将会是年轻的家庭，或者青年，一如既往。但事实上，他们惊奇地发现那样一个街区房子的主要买主是一个年轻的，单身女性。因为他们的好奇心被激起了，因此，他们决定去做一个全国性的调查。他们分析了所有的人口统计数据，他们发现，他的描述对我而言是一个震惊，在一九九七年，两千个社区中，女性，年轻女性，比年轻男性挣得更多。这一代的年轻女性在“她们是比其周围年轻男性更强大的挣钱者”的想法中成长。
en:And now look at this second set of slides.These are headlines about what&#39;s been going on with women in the next few years.These are things we never could have imagined a few years ago.Women, a majority of the workplace.And labor statistics: women take up most managerial jobs.This second set of headlines —you can see that families and marriages are starting to shift.And look at that last headline —young women earning more than young men.That particular headline comes to me from a market research firm.They were basically asked by one of their clientswho was going to buy houses in that neighborhood in the future.And they expected that it would be young families,or young men, just like it had always been.But in fact, they found something very surprising.It was young, single womenwho were the major purchasers of houses in the neighborhood.And so they decided, because they were intrigued by this finding,to do a nationwide survey.So they spread out all the census data,and what they found, the guy described to me as a shocker,which is that in 1,997out of 2,000 communities,women, young women,were making more money than young men.So here you have a generation of young womenwho grow up thinking of themselvesas being more powerful earnersthan the young men around them.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:现在，我仅仅将这些画面展示给你，我还未向你们解释为什么这些事情会发生。过一会，我将向你们展示一个图表，你可以从这个图表中看到—从一九七三年开始，在女性充斥劳动力市场之前，转移到今天。基本上你看到的就是经济学家谈论的经济两极分化。这表明了什么呢？这表明经济被分为高技术、高薪工作和低技术、低薪工作—在这中间，中等技术工作，中薪工作正愈消亡。这已经持续发生了四十年。但是这个过程对男人和女人的影响是十分不同的。红色的是女人，蓝色的是男人。你可以看到他们都从中产阶级中脱离出来，但是看看女人发生了什么，男人又发生了什么变化。这就对了。看那个，你看到他们都从中产阶级中脱离出来。看看女人发生了什么变化，男人又发生了什么变化。男人在这里似乎停滞了，但女人急涨至高技术工作中。到底怎么回事？看起来好像女人像是电子游戏里一样得到很多的力量。或者在她们的避孕药丸中偷偷地得到了种神奇的浆液从而使得她们崛起。当然不是那样。
en:Now, I&#39;ve just laid out the picture for you,but I still haven&#39;t explained to you why this is happening.And in a moment, I&#39;m going to show you a graph,and what you&#39;ll see on this graph —it begins in 1973,just before women start flooding the workforce,and it brings us up to our current day.And basically what you&#39;ll seeis what economists talk aboutas the polarization of the economy.Now what does that mean?It means that the economy is dividing into high-skill, high-wage jobsand low-skill, low-wage jobs —and that the middle, the middle-skill jobs,and the middle-earning jobs, are starting to drop out of the economy.This has been going on for 40 years now.But this process is affecting menvery differently than it&#39;s affecting women.You&#39;ll see the women in red, and you&#39;ll see the men in blue.You&#39;ll watch them both drop out of the middle class,but see what happens to women and see what happens to men.There we go.So watch that. You see them both drop out of the middle class.Watch what happens to the women. Watch what happens to the men.The men sort of stagnate there,while the women zoom up in those high-skill jobs.So what&#39;s that about?It looks like women got some power boost on a video game,or like they snuck in some secret serum into their birth-control pillsthat lets them shoot up high.But of course, it&#39;s not about that.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:其原因就是经济变化了很多。我们曾拥有一个制造性经济，也就是制造商品，现在我们是服务性经济一个信息化和创造性的经济。这两个经济模式要求十分不相同的技能。正是由于这个变化，女性比男性更好地获取新的技术。曾经是这样的，你从高中学校出来，没有大学文凭，但是你有一些特殊的技能，借助于工会的帮助，你可以让自己过上很不错的中产阶级的生活。但是现在不再是这样了。新经济对个头和力量不再依赖，过去的时间里对于个头和力量的依赖显然帮助了男人。现在的经济要求的是完全不一样的技术。基本上你需要智力，你需要能够稳定地坐着并保持集中，开放地交流能够倾听别人能够在一个更流动的工作场所下作业。这些正是女人们可以做的非常的好，正如我们所见。
en:What it&#39;s about is that the economy has changed a lot.We used to have a manufacturing economy,which was about building goods and products,and now we have a service economyand an information and creative economy.Those two economies require very different skills,and as it happens, women have been much betterat acquiring the new set of skills than men have been.It used to be that you werea guy who went to high schoolwho didn&#39;t have a college degree,but you had a specific set of skills,and with the help of a union,you could make yourself a pretty good middle-class life.But that really isn&#39;t true anymore.This new economy is pretty indifferentto size and strength,which is what&#39;s helped men along all these years.What the economy requires nowis a whole different set of skills.You basically need intelligence,you need an ability to sit still and focus,to communicate openly,to be able to listen to peopleand to operate in a workplace that is much more fluid than it used to be,and those are things that women do extremely well,as we&#39;re seeing.
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:如果你观察一下当今的管理理论，我们曾经的理想化的领导是像乔治-巴顿一样的人。你可以从上向下发令。你可以非常的阶级化。你可以告诉你下面的每一个人做什么。但是这不再是今天的理想化领导。如果你现在读管理类的书，领导是那种可以激发创造力，可以令他的—员工们—看吧，我仍然说“他的”—让员工们相互交谈，可以组建团队并令他们拥有创造力的人。女性可以将所有这些事情做的非常的好。
en:If you look at management theory these days,it used to be that our ideal leadersounded something like General Patton, right?You would be issuing orders from above.You would be very hierarchical.You would tell everyone below you what to do.But that&#39;s not what an ideal leader is like now.If you read management books now,a leader is somebody who can foster creativity,who can get his — get the employees — see, I still say &quot;his&quot; —who can get the employees to talk to each other,who can basically build teams and get them to be creative.And those are all things that women do very well.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:再加上，（她们）创造了一种级联效应。女人进入工作场所的上级，然后在工薪阶层，所有被创造的新工作曾是主妇们在家里做的免费的工作。也就是照看小孩，照顾老年人和准备食物。这些工作正在增加，这些工作也正是女人们愿意去做的。有一天妈妈们将雇佣一名失业的，中年，曾为造铁工人的男人在家里照看他们的小孩，这对男人也有好处，但是这至今还没有发生。
en:And then on top of that, that&#39;s created a kind of cascading effect.Women enter the workplace at the top,and then at the working class,all the new jobs that are createdare the kinds of jobs that wives used to do for free at home.So that&#39;s childcare,elder care and food preparation.So those are all the jobs that are growing,and those are jobs that women tend to do.Now one day it might bethat mothers will hire an out-of-work,middle-aged, former steelworker guyto watch their children at home,and that would be good for the men, but that hasn&#39;t quite happened yet.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:想知道发生了什么，你不能仅观察现在的工作情形，你需要观察未来的工作情形。这其实很简单。女人们正在以一个比男人们更快的速度获得大学学位。为什么？这的确不可思议。人们问男人，为什么不回到大学，回到社区大学，重组自己，学一些新的技术。事实上他们对此感到十分的不舒服。他们习惯于认为他们是提供者，他们似乎看起来不能社会关系网来允许他们完成大学。因此，男人最终不能返回学校。更加令人不安的是发生在年轻的男孩子身上的事情。这有一个进行了大约十年的调查关于人们所谓的男生危机是什么。现在的男生危机是年幼的男生，不知道为什么，在学校里表现得比年幼的女生差。人们有关于这件事情的理论。是因为我们有过多的语言课程,小女孩在这个方面比男孩做得更好吗?又或者是我们过多地要求孩子们坐着不动所以男孩子们觉得很失败？有一些人说因为，在九年级的时候，男孩子开始退学。因为我在写一本关于这个的书，我仍然在做调查，所以我还没有结果。但同时，我将呼吁世界级教育专家，也就是我十岁的女儿，诺亚，和你们谈谈为什么男孩子在他们班表现比较差。
en:To see what&#39;s going to happen, you can&#39;t just look at the workforce that is now,you have to look at our future workforce.And here the story is fairly simple.Women are getting college degreesat a faster rate than men.Why? This is a real mystery.People have asked men, why don&#39;t they just go back to college,to community college, say, and retool themselves,learn a new set of skills?Well it turns out that they&#39;re just very uncomfortable doing that.They&#39;re used to thinking of themselves as providers,and they can&#39;t seem to build the social networksthat allow them to get through college.So for some reasonmen just don&#39;t end up going back to college.And what&#39;s even more disturbingis what&#39;s happening with younger boys.There&#39;s been about a decade of researchabout what people are calling the &quot;boy crisis.&quot;Now the boy crisis is this ideathat very young boys, for whatever reason,are doing worse in school than very young girls,and people have theories about that.Is it because we have an excessively verbal curriculum,and little girls are better at that than little boys?Or that we require kids to sit still too much,and so boys initially feel like failures?And some people say it&#39;s because,in 9th grade, boys start dropping out of school.Because I&#39;m writing a book about all this, I&#39;m still looking into it,so I don&#39;t have the answer.But in the mean time, I&#39;m going to call on the worldwide education expert,who&#39;s my 10-year-old daughter, Noa,to talk to you aboutwhy the boys in her class do worse.
时间： 9:51
zh-cn:（视频）诺亚：女生的确更聪明。我是说她们有更多的词汇量。她们学得更快。她们更遵守纪律。在今天的黑板上只有男生被罚失去明天的休息时间。
en:(Video) Noa: The girls are obviously smarter.I mean they have much larger vocabulary.They learn much faster.They are more controlled.On the board today for losing recess tomorrow, only boys.
时间：10:03
zh-cn:汉娜 罗森：为什么呢？
en:Hanna Rosin: And why is that?
时间：10:05
zh-cn:诺亚：为什么？他们不听讲而女生坐得很端正。
en:Noa: Why? They were just not listening to the classwhile the girls sat there very nicely.
时间：10:09
zh-cn:汉娜 罗森：所以你现在知道了。这个论文是当我在访问堪萨斯市的一所大学时决定的—一所工薪阶层的大学。当然当我在大学的时候，我对我的人生有非常明确的期望—我的丈夫和我都工作，我们平等地共同抚养孩子。但是这些大学女孩儿们对她们的未来有着完全不同的看法。基本上，他们对我说的是，他们将一天工作十八个小时，他们的丈夫有可能有工作，但是大部分他们将在家里照看孩子。这对我来说是一个震惊。这个是我最喜欢的一个女孩的话：“男人是新的累赘”
en:HR: So there you go.This whole thesis really came home to mewhen I went to visit a college in Kansas City —working-class college.Certainly, when I was in college, I had certain expectations about my life —that my husband and I would both work,and that we would equally raise the children.But these college girlshad a completely different view of their future.Basically, the way they said it to me isthat they would be working 18 hours a day,that their husband would maybe have a job,but that mostly he would be at home taking care of the kiddies.And this was kind of a shocker to me.And then here&#39;s my favorite quote from one of the girls:&quot;Men are the new ball and chain.&quot;
时间：10:47
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:50
zh-cn:你觉得好笑，但是那句话有些刺痛，对吧。我认为它有刺的原因是因为数千年的历史是不会颠覆，如果没有疼痛的话。这也是为什么我谈到我们都将一起经历这个。在我和这些大学女孩儿谈过之后的那天夜里，我也去访问了在堪萨斯州的一个男生团体。这些正是制造业经济的受害者，正如我较早前对你们说的。他们是那些曾经的承包商，或者他们曾建造房屋在房屋建造繁荣期过去之后他们失去了工作，他们属于这个团体因为他们不能为他们的孩子支付抚养费。指导者站在教室前向他们解释他们是如何在新时代失去他们的身份。他告诉他们，他们不再有任何道义上的权威，没有人需要他们来作为情感上的支撑，他们也不是提供者。那么他们是谁呢？这对他们来说是十分的沮丧的。他所作的就是在黑板上写下八万五千美元，然后他说，“这是她的工资。”然后他写下一万两千美金。“这是你的工资。那么现在谁是一家之主？”　他问他们。“谁是那个一家之主？她现在成了一家之主。”那真的使整个屋子颤栗。那也是我想要谈论这个的一部分原因，因为我认为它可以很刺痛，我们也的确需要攻克它。
en:Now you laugh,but that quote has kind of a sting to it, right?And I think the reason it has a stingis because thousands of years of historydon&#39;t reverse themselveswithout a lot of pain,and that&#39;s why I talk aboutus all going through this together.The night after I talked to these college girls,I also went to a men&#39;s group in Kansas,and these were exactly the kind of victims of the manufacturing economywhich I spoke to you about earlier.They were men who had been contractors,or they had been building housesand they had lost their jobs after the housing boom,and they were in this group because they were failing to pay their child support.And the instructor was up there in the classexplaining to them all the waysin which they had lost their identity in this new age.He was telling them they no longer had any moral authority,that nobody needed them for emotional support anymore,and they were not really the providers.So who were they?And this was very disheartening for them.And what he did was he wrote down on the board&quot;$85,000,&quot;and he said, &quot;That&#39;s her salary,&quot;and then he wrote down &quot;$12,000.&quot;&quot;That&#39;s your salary.So who&#39;s the man now?&quot; he asked them.&quot;Who&#39;s the damn man?She&#39;s the man now.&quot;And that really sent a shudder through the room.And that&#39;s part of the reason I like to talk about this,because I think it can be pretty painful,and we really have to work through it.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:这件事情比较紧急的另一个原因是因为它不仅仅发生在美国。它发生在整个世界。在印度，贫穷的女人们学习英语比男同伴们更快为了应聘在印度迅速发展的客服中心。在中国，很多私人企业家正在崛起，因为女人们开始着手于商业，小型商业，比男人更快。这是我最喜欢的一个例子，在韩国。过去的几十年里，韩国建立起我们所知的最严格的父系社会。他们甚至将女性的二等地位铭记于民法里。如果女人不能生男孩，她们将基本上被视为家里的佣人。有些时候一些家庭向神灵祈祷能杀死一个女孩然后他们可以拥有一个男孩。但是在七十年代和八十年代，韩国政府决定要加快工业化，他们所作的就是，开始推动女性进入劳动市场。从一九八五年到现在他们一直在问一个问题：“你对长子有多么强烈的偏好？”现在请看这个图表。是从一九八五年到二零零三年。你多么偏好于长子？
en:And the other reason it&#39;s kind of urgentis because it&#39;s not just happening in the U.S.It&#39;s happening all over the world.In India, poor women are learning Englishfaster than their male counterpartsin order to staff the new call centersthat are growing in India.In China, a lot of the opening up of private entrepreneurshipis happening because women are starting businesses,small businesses, faster than men.And here&#39;s my favorite example, which is in South Korea.Over several decades,South Korea built one of the most patriarchal societies we know about.They basically enshrined the second-class status of womenin the civil code.And if women failed to birth male children,they were basically treated like domestic servants.And sometimes family would pray to the spirits to kill off a girl childso they could have a male child.But over the &#39;70s and &#39;80s,the South Korea government decided they wanted to rapidly industrialize,and so what they did was,they started to push women into the workforce.Now they&#39;ve been asking a question since 1985:&quot;How strongly do you prefer a first-born son?&quot;And now look at the chart.That&#39;s from 1985 to 2003.How much do you prefer a first-born son?
时间：13:14
zh-cn:你可以发现这些经济变化的确对我们的文化有着强烈的影响。现在因为我们还没有完全地处理这些信息，它似乎回归到我们的通俗文化以一种奇怪的夸张的方式，你可以看到固有观念正在发生变化。所以在男性这边，我的同事喜欢称之为“欧米加男性”跳出，他们是那些得不到爱情的失败者那些不能找到工作的人。他们以很多不同的形式出现。因此我们有终身的青春期。我们有毫无魅力愤世嫉俗者。有终日赖在沙发上边看电视边喝百威淡啤的男子。这里有一个震惊：甚至于美国最性感的男性，存活的最性感的男人如今在电影中被浪漫地耍弄。而在女性的层面，恰恰相反，有这些疯狂的女性超级英雄。有Lady Gaga。有新一代的詹姆斯·邦德， 安吉丽娜·朱莉。不仅仅是那些年轻人，对吧。如今甚至连海伦·米伦都可以握着一把枪。所以感觉上我们需要离开这个有着过分夸张印象的地方，使之变得更加正常化。
en:So you can see that these economic changesreally do have a strong effect on our culture.Now because we haven&#39;t fully processed this information,it&#39;s kind of coming back to us in our pop culturein these kind of weird and exaggerated ways,where you can see that the stereotypes are changing.And so we have on the male sidewhat one of my colleagues likes to call the &quot;omega males&quot; popping up,who are the males who are romantically challenged loserswho can&#39;t find a job.And they come up in lots of different forms.So we have the perpetual adolescent.We have the charmless misanthrope.Then we have our Bud Light guywho&#39;s the happy couch potato.And then here&#39;s a shocker: even America&#39;s most sexiest man alive,the sexiest man alivegets romantically played these days in a movie.And then on the female side, you have the opposite,in which you have these crazy superhero women.You&#39;ve got Lady Gaga.You&#39;ve got our new James Bond, who&#39;s Angelina Jolie.And it&#39;s not just for the young, right?Even Helen Mirren can hold a gun these days.And so it feels like we have to move from this placewhere we&#39;ve got these uber-exaggerated imagesinto something that feels a little more normal.
时间：14:26
zh-cn:很长一段时间在经济领域里，我们和一种叫做无形顶障（妇女等在职务升迁上遇到的无形障碍）的术语生活在一起。现在我们将永远不会喜欢这个术语。首先，它将男人和女人放在一个相互敌对的关系上，因为在这里男人是放置这个无形顶障的狡猾的骗子。而我们，女人们，常常在这个无形顶障之下。我们有很多的技术和经历，但这是一个诡计，你应该如何准备冲破那个无形的顶障？并且，击碎无形顶障是一个糟糕的词组。多么疯狂的人将会用他的头撞穿一个无形顶障？
en:So for a long time in the economic sphere,we&#39;ve lived with the term &quot;glass ceiling.&quot;Now I&#39;ve never really liked this term.For one thing, it puts men and womenin a really antagonistic relationship with one another,because the men are these devious tricksters up therewho&#39;ve put up this glass ceiling.And we&#39;re always below the glass ceiling, the women.And we have a lot of skill and experience,but it&#39;s a trick, so how are you supposed to prepareto get through that glass ceiling?And also, &quot;shattering the glass ceiling&quot; is a terrible phrase.What crazy personwould pop their head through a glass ceiling?
时间：14:58
zh-cn:我想象一个图像，来代替无形顶障，是一个高桥。站在高桥下是十分恐怖的，但也是很令人高兴的，因为那上面很美，你眺望美丽的远景。更好的事情是与无形顶障不同的，这里没有诡计。这里没有男人或是女人在中间准备切断缆绳。这中间没有会令你掉下去的洞。最好的事情是你可以带任何一个人和你一起。你可以带着你的丈夫。你可以带着你的朋友，或者你的同事，又或者是你的保姆和你一起走。丈夫们可以拉他们的妻子过去，如果他们的妻子们还没有准备好。但是关于这个高桥重要的是你需要有自信知道你应当在那个桥上，因为你有所需的技巧和经历为了走过那个高桥，但是你需要做个决定走出第一步并且行动。
en:So the image that I like to think of,instead of glass ceiling,is the high bridge.It&#39;s definitely terrifying to stand at the foot of a high bridge,but it&#39;s also pretty exhilarating,because it&#39;s beautiful up there,and you&#39;re looking out on a beautiful view.And the great thing is there&#39;s no trick like with the glass ceiling.There&#39;s no man or woman standing in the middleabout to cut the cables.There&#39;s no hole in the middle that you&#39;re going to fall through.And the great thing is that you can take anyone along with you.You can bring your husband along.You can bring your friends, or your colleagues,or your babysitter to walk along with you.And husbands can drag their wives across, if their wives don&#39;t feel ready.But the point about the high bridgeis that you have to have the confidenceto know that you deserve to be on that bridge,that you have all the skills and experience you needin order to walk across the high bridge,but you just have to make the decisionto take the first step and do it.
时间：15:51
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thanks very much.
时间：15:53
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
