时间： 0:13
zh-cn:很久以前，当我还是24岁之时，我尚是一名位于班加罗尔的圣约翰医学院的学生。当时，我是一名为期一个月的公共卫生课程的旁听生。我的思维模式从那时起开始改变。这是一门好课程，但改变我思维模式的不是这门课程本身。而是因在第一天早晨，我发现印度学生的表现居然比我还要优秀，这个残酷的现实。
en:Once upon a time,at the age of 24,I was a student at St. John&#39;s Medical College in Bangalore.I was a guest student during one monthof a public health course.And that changed my mindset forever.The course was good, but it was not the course contentin itself that changed the mindset.It was the brutal realization,the first morning,that the Indian students were better than me.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:如你所见，我是一个书呆子。当我年轻时，我对数据有狂热的喜好。而且我在瑞典学习时很用功。我曾在所有课程中都名列前茅。但在圣约翰时，我却名落孙山了。我不得不承认，印度学生比瑞典学生要刻苦努力多了。他们会三番四次地阅读他们的课本。而在瑞典，读完一次后，我们就去夜夜笙歌了。
en:You see, I was a study nerd.I loved statistics from a young age.And I studied very much in Sweden.I used to be in the upper quarter of all courses I attended.But in St. John&#39;s, I was in the lower quarter.And the fact was that Indian studentsstudied harder than we did in Sweden.They read the textbook twice,or three times or four times.In Sweden we read it once and then we went partying.
时间： 1:09
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laugher)
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:这对于我的意义是在于我生而知之的思维方式第一次被改变了。我意识到西方世界或许不再是霸权国家了。我想你们都大概有这种体验。那种遇到某个人使你的世界观发生天翻地覆地改变的经历。这些都不是数据，虽然我试着让它听起来有趣。
en:And that, to me,that personal experiencewas the first time in my lifethat the mindset I grew up withwas changed.And I realized that perhapsthe Western world will not continueto dominate the world forever.And I think many of you have the same sort of personal experience.It&#39;s that realization of someone you meetthat really made you change your ideas about the world.It&#39;s not the statistics, although I tried to make it funny.
时间： 1:44
zh-cn:现在，我，将在这个台上，来预测亚洲什么时候会重夺其导向世界的主导地位，正如过去数千年一般。而且我会尽可能地得到一个精准的预测来说明印度和中国的人均收入何时会达到西方的水平。我不是指整体的经济实力，对于印度来说赶超英国的整体经济实力是小菜一碟，因为他们拥有十亿人口。但是我所想见得是印度和中国的人均收入什么时候会追上英国和美国的水平？
en:And I will now,here, onstage,try to predict when that will happen —that Asia will regainits dominant positionas the leading part of the world,as it used to be, over thousands of years.And I will do thatby trying to predict preciselyat what yearthe average income per personin India, in China, will reach that of the West.And I don&#39;t mean the whole economy,because to grow an economyof India to the size of U.K. —that&#39;s a piece of cake, with one billion people.But I want to see when will the average pay, the moneyfor each person, per month,in India and China,when will that have reached that of U.K. and the United States?
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:首先，我会介绍一下历史背景。请问你们可以看到我的数据图么？可以吗？我会从1858年开始。1858年是西方科技水平大跃进的一年。在这一年，维多利亚皇后可以和布坎南总统通过跨大西洋电报电缆来交流，这是有史以来的第一次。他们，是第一对跨大西洋的推客。（笑声）（鼓掌）而我，通过神奇的谷歌和网络找到了布坎南总统回发给维多利亚皇后的电报。它的结尾时这样的：“这个电报将是一种可向世界传播宗教、文明、自由和法律的神奇工具。”
en:But I will start with a historical background.And you can see my map if I get it up here. You know?I will start at 1858.1858 was a year of great technologicaladvancement in the West.That was the year when Queen Victoriawas able, for the first time, to communicatewith President Buchanan,through the Transatlantic Telegraphic Cable.And they were the first to &quot;Twitter&quot; transatlantically.(Laughter)(Applause)And I&#39;ve been able, through this wonderful Google and Internet,to find the text of the telegramsent back from President Buchanan to Queen Victoria.And it ends like this: &quot;This telegraphis a fantastic instrument to diffuse religion,civilization, liberty and law throughout the world.&quot;
时间： 3:30
zh-cn:这句话很动听。可是，我很好奇他说的是何种自由，以及是何人的自由。这势必让我们回想起在1858年时，世界各地都发生了什么。因为1858年同时也是亚洲历史的分水岭。1858年，印度所爆发的民族大起义被英军镇压了。印度因此继续忍受了89年的外人统治。
en:Those are nice words. But I got sort of curiousof what he meant with liberty, and liberty for whom.And we will think about thatwhen we look at the wider picture of the world in 1858.Because 1858was also watershed yearin the history of Asia.1858 was the yearwhen the courageous uprisingagainst the foreign occupation of Indiawas defeated by the British forces.And India was up to 89 years more of foreign domination.
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:中国在1858年再一次在鸦片战争中输给了英国。因此在签订的（不平等）条约中说明外国人在中国可自由通商。这意味着用鸦片换取中国商品。
en:1858 in Chinawas the victory in the Opium War by the British forces.And that meant that foreigners, as it said in the treaty,were allowed to trade freely in China.It meant paying with opium for Chinese goods.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:日本在1858年，被迫签订安政条约以及承认美日贸易优先权。因为他们在这几年被东京港里的黑船威胁。但日本仍拥有国家主权，不像印度和中国那样。
en:And 1858 in Japanwas the year when Japan had to sign the Harris Treatyand accept trade on favorable condition for the U.S.And they were threatened by those black ships there,that had been in Tokyo harbor over the last year.But, Japan, in contrast to India and China,maintained its national sovereignty.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:让我们来看看这将带来多大的差异。我将带着这些泡泡回到Gapminder软件上，在这里，每个泡泡都代表着一个国家。人口是由泡泡的大小所代表。一般横轴都代表人均收入。竖轴则代表人均寿命。今天，我又一次带来了一件发明。为了绿色印度，我将激光束转换成一根生态友好型木棒。
en:And let&#39;s see how much difference that can make.And I will do that by bringing these bubblesback to a Gapminder graph here,where you can see each bubble is a country.The size of the bubble here is the population.On this axis, as I used to have income per person in comparable dollar.And on that axis I have life expectancy, the health of people.And I also bring an innovation here.I have transformed the laser beaminto an ecological, recyclable version here, in green India.
时间： 5:14
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:正如你们所料一样。1858年，印度和中国是在这里，日本则在那里。美国和英国则更是在那边。世界将从这样开始。印度以前不是这样的。让我们回想百年以前的印度和中国，那时，两国的人均收入是比欧洲的水平还高。然而，在1850年时，两国已饱受多年的外国侵略，何况印度的工业能力还被削弱。而经济正在发展的国家则是英美两国。在十九世纪末时，他们的国民身体素质也得以改善，至于日本则开始奋起直追。偏偏印度还深陷泥沼。你们可以看见他的确是在动吗？国家主权完整使日本受益匪浅。日本一直在尝试赶上去。
en:And we will see, you know.Look here, 1858, India was here,China was here, Japan was there,United States and United Kingdomwas richer over there.And I will start the world like this.India was not always like this level.Actually if we go back into the historical record,there was a time hundreds of years agowhen the income per person in India and Chinawas even above that of Europe.But 1850 had already been many, many years of foreign domination,and India had been de-industrialized.And you can see that the countries who were growingtheir economy was United States and United Kingdom.And they were also, by the end of the century, getting healthy,and Japan was starting to catch up.India was trying down here.Can you see how it starts to move there?But really, really natural sovereignty was good for Japan.And Japan is trying to move up there.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:新世界到了。英美两国的国民身体素质更加强化了。但要小心，一战的脚步已经近了。正如你所料，在一战期间会爆发很多经济问题和导致死亡。英国在走下坡路。西班牙流感又接踵而来。一战后，他们继续向上攀升。印中两国由于仍被外来政权统治着，因此他们还在下面的角落里。无甚变化。只是人口有所增加罢了。现在到了三十年代，日本正处于战争时期，国民寿命普遍低下。二战对日本来说，尤其在经济上，是一场噩梦。但战后他们恢复的相对迅速。我们正迈向新世界。印度终于于1947年成独立国家。他们可以升起他们自己的国旗并且成为一主权国家，却仍举步维艰。
en:And it&#39;s the new century now. Health is getting better,United Kingdom, United States.But careful now — we are approaching the First World War.And the First World War, you know,we&#39;ll see a lot of deaths and economical problems here.United Kingdom is going down.And now comes the Spanish flu also.And then after the First World War, they continue up.Still under foreign domination, and without sovereignty,India and China are down in the corner.Not much has happened.They have grown their population but not much more.In the 1930&#39;s now, you can seethat Japan is going to a period of war,with lower life expectancy.And the Second World War was really a terrible event,also economically for Japan.But they did recover quite fast afterwards.And we are moving into the new world.In 1947 India finallygained its independence.And they could raise the Indian flag and become a sovereign nation,but in very big difficulties down there.
时间： 7:05
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
时间： 7:08
zh-cn:在1949年，新中国的诞生使全世界都为之惊奇。之后发生了什么？在独立之后发生了什么？正如你所见，国民的健康有所进步。儿童们有学上。医疗设施也逐渐出现。现正是大跃进时期，中国摔了一大跤。这是由毛泽东统一计划的。中国恢复元气后，他们则说：“前事不忘，后事之师。”中国又日趋上升，印度则是吊车尾。他们都正迎头赶上。两国的国民健康大大改善，然后经济水平仍有待提高。
en:In 1949 we saw the emergence of the modern Chinain a way which surprised the world.And what happened?What happens in the after independence?You can see that the health started to improve.Children started to go to school.Health services were provided.This is the Great Leap Forward, when China fell down.It was central planning by Mao Tse Tung.China recovered. Then they said,&quot;Nevermore, stupid central planning.&quot;But they went up here, and India was trying to follow.And they were catching up indeed.And both countries had the better health, but stilla very low economy.
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:现在来到1978年，毛泽东已去世，新一代领导出现。而邓小平正冉冉上升。他说：“不管黑猫白猫，抓到老鼠就是好猫。”因为这正是这两只大猫想做的。正如你们所知，中印两只大猫是想要抓住那边的老鼠。因此他们决定不仅要发展教育和公共卫生，也要开始发展经济。改革开放是成功的。在1992年印度也开始了经济改革。他们走的很近，而且两国颇多相似之处，而且差异不多。
en:And we came to 1978, and Mao Tse Tung died,and a new guy turned up from the left.And it was Deng Xiaoping coming out here.And he said, &quot;Doesn&#39;t matterif a cat is white or black,as long as it catches mice.&quot;Because catching miceis what the two cats wanted to do.And you can see the two cats being here,China and India, wanting to catch the mices over there, you know.And they decided to go not only for health and education,but also starting to grow their economy.And the market reformer was successful there.In &#39;92 India follows with a market reform.And they go quite closely together,and you can see that the similarity with India and China,in many ways, are greater than the differences with them.
时间： 8:26
zh-cn:他们齐头并进。可是能迎头赶上么？
en:And here they march on. And will they catch up?
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:这是现今世界的一个大问题。今天，他们处在哪里。
en:This is the big question today.There they are today.
时间： 8:32
zh-cn:这说明了——(掌声)他们的平均水平，这是中国的平均水平。假如将中国分开来看，看，上海已经赶上了。上海已经在上面哪里。而且市民的平均寿命比美国还长。然而，贵州，中国最穷的一个内陆省，在那里。假如我将贵州分成城市和乡下两部分，贵州乡下仍继续下滑。在中国的迅速经济发展下，隐藏着极大的问题。
en:Now what does it mean that the —(Applause)the averages there — this is the average of China.If I would split China, look here,Shanghai has already catched up.Shanghai is already there.And it&#39;s healthier than the United States.But on the other hand, Guizhou, one of the poorestinland provinces of China, is there.And if I split Guizhou into urban and rural,the rural part of Guizhou goes down there.You see this enormous inequity in China,in the midst of fast economic growth.
时间： 9:09
zh-cn:我们再来看看印度，我们会看到另一种不平等。从地理的角度上来看，差距不大。北方邦，是印度的最大邦，比起其他邦来说是较为贫穷落后的。克拉拉邦则处于领先地位，而且就公共卫生一项来说已赶上了美国，偏偏不包括经济。这里，孟买的所在邦，马哈拉斯特拉邦，正向前迈进。在印度，不平等是体现在邦内，而非邦与邦之间。这并不是一件坏事。假如在宏观地理上有太大差距，这将会成为一长期隐患，但在每个区域都有一经济发展中心，并且离穷人居住区近的话，这将会更好。
en:And if I would also look at India,you have another type of inequity, actually, in India.The geographical, macro-geographical difference is not so big.Uttar Pradesh, the biggest of the states here,is poorer and has a lower health than the rest of India.Kerala is flying on top there,matching United States in health,but not in economy.And here, Maharashtra, with Mumbai,is forging forward.Now in India, the big inequities are within the state,rather than between the states.And that is not a bad thing, in itself.If you have a lot inequity, macro-geographical inequitiescan be more difficult in the long term to deal with,than if it is in the same area where you have a growth centerrelatively close to where poor people are living.
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:看，这还有一不平等的问题。看这里，美国。(笑声)他已将我的框框撑破。华盛顿特区已跑到那里。我在Gapminder的朋友想我将这展现给你们因为现在白宫有了新主人而且很关心公共卫生体系。况且我也明白他的心情，因为华盛顿特区居民收入已非常之高但却比克拉拉邦的居民还短命。很有趣是吧。(鼓掌)我帮克拉拉邦找到一生意，就是去帮美国建设他们的公共卫生体系。
en:No, there is one more inequity. Look there, United States.(Laughter)Oh, they broke my frame.Washington, D.C. went out here.My friends at Gapminder wanted me to show thisbecause there is a new leader in Washingtonwho is really concerned about the health system.And I can understand him, because Washington, D.C.is so rich over therebut they are not as healthy as Kerala.It&#39;s quite interesting, isn&#39;t it?(Applause)I can see a business opportunity for Kerala,helping fix the health system in the United States.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:34
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
时间：10:36
zh-cn:现在来看看全球。图例则在这里。你们看到这两只巨猫在跋涉向前，在他们之间或在他们前面，正是现时的全球经济，这就是托马斯·弗里德曼所说的“世界是平的”。你可以看见，很大一部分的世界人口中的卫生和教育体系正在进步，只是在非洲，或者其他地方，如中国的贵州乡下，仍然有许多人处在困境之中。现今世界贫富差距悬殊。但大多中间阶层国家都进步的很快。
en:Now here we have the whole world. You have the legend down there.And when you see the two giant cats here, pushing forward,you see that in between themand ahead of them,is the whole emerging economies of the world,which Thomas Friedman so correctly called the &quot;flat world.&quot;You can see that in health and education,a large part of the world population is putting forward,but in Africa, and other parts,as in rural Guizhou in China,there is still people with low health and very low economy.We have an enormous disparity in the world.But most of the world in the middle are pushing forwards very fast.
时间：11:12
zh-cn:好，回到我的预测。但两国何时能迎头赶上？我们必须使用传统图表。竖轴代表着人均收入，穷富递进相增。回溯到1858年世界由此开始。让我们来观察下世界将会如何改变。中国正处于半殖民半封建时期而他们国民收入已降低至印度的水准。同一时间，英美则越来越富有。二战后，英国被美国赶超。与此同时，独立的曙光则洒在中印两国头上。经济经过改革后开始增长。增长速率加快，并且加上国际货币组织的预测这正是两国于2014年会到达的水平。
en:Now, back to my projections.When will it catch up? I have to go back to very conventional graph.I will show income per person on this axis instead,poor down here, rich up there.And then time here, from 1858I start the world.And we shall see what will happen with these countries.You see, China under foreign dominationactually lowered their income and came down to the Indian level here.Whereas U.K. and United States is getting richer and richer.And after Second World War, United States is richer than U.K.But independence is coming here.Growth is starting, economic reform.Growth is faster, and with projection from IMFyou can see where you expect them to be in 2014.
时间：11:55
zh-cn:现时的问题则是：“他们何时会赶上？”再来回看下美国。看的见那些泡泡？不是我的泡沫，而是经济泡沫。看，雷曼兄弟的门槛在这。看这里的下滑趋势。英国也因受影响而下滑。这些国家走的并不是阳光大道。反而是崎岖不平的。是故关注经济增长的人们则转移视线至亚洲。
en:Now, the question is, &quot;When will the catch up take place?&quot;Look at, look at the United States.Can you see the bubble?The bubbles, not my bubbles,but the financial bubbles.That&#39;s the dot com bubble. This is the Lehman Brothers doorstep there.You see it came down there.And it seems this is another rock coming down there, you know.So they doesn&#39;t seem to go this way, these countries.They seem to go in a more humble growth way, you know.And people interested in growthare turning their eyes towards Asia.
时间：12:31
zh-cn:我们将日本也加进来。日本是日趋上升。日本是这样发展的。日本也加入美英的行列。毫无疑问，他们追的很快且赶上了。看看日本怎么做的。直到完全赶上，日本是这样发展的，接下来就紧随着高收入国家的脚步。不过我做出的预测则是这样的。是福祸相依的。未来是难以预测的。偏偏有一位历史学家告诉我过去更难预测。
en:I can compare to Japan. This is Japan coming up.You see, Japan did it like that.We add Japan to it.And there is no doubt that fast catch upcan take place.Can you see here what Japan did?Japan did it like this, until full catch up,and then they follow with the other high-income economies.But the real projections for those ones,I would like to give it like this.Can be worse, can be better.It&#39;s always difficult to predict, especially about the future.Now, a historian tells me it&#39;s even more difficult to predict about the past.
时间：13:08
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间：13:10
zh-cn:我在左右为难中。中印两国的最大障碍就是不平等，要使百业具兴则定要创建一国内市场来避免社会的不稳定并能使广大的群众都投身其中。所以中印两国绝需建设完备的医疗，教育，电力等基础设施。
en:I think I&#39;m in a difficult position here.Inequalities in China and IndiaI consider really the big obstaclebecause to bring the entire population into growth and prosperityis what will create a domestic market,what will avoid social instability,and which will make use of the entire capacityof the population.So, social investments in health, education and infrastructure,and electricity is really what is needed in India and China.
时间：13:43
zh-cn:气候是一全球问题。有一位印度的专家指出全球气候正在变化我们必须采取行动，否则，中印两国则会首当其冲。我想中国和印度应是在气候问题上的最佳伙伴。但他们不应为那些造成这些恶果的国家背黑锅，而我认为也应这样做。
en:You know the climate. We have great international expertswithin India telling us that the climate is changing,and actions has to be taken,otherwise China and India would be the countriesmost to suffer from climate change.And I consider India and China the best partners in the worldin a good global climate policy.But they ain&#39;t going to payfor what others, who have more money,have largely created, and I can agree on that.
时间：14:09
zh-cn:但我最担心战争爆发。那些现今的大国能接受世界经济体系的改变和承认已有50至100年，甚至是霸主地位的移交么甚至是150年的的霸主地位的移交么？抑或亚洲能够承受住作为世界霸主的压力和重担吗？因此一定要避免战争，因为战争是人类倒退的罪魁祸首。若是这些问题都能被解决，那么就准备迎来一平等的世界吧。因为这正是历史的潮流。
en:But what I&#39;m really worried about is war.Will the former rich countries really accepta completely changed world economy,and a shift of power away from where it has beenthe last 50 to 100 to 150 years,back to Asia?And will Asia be able to handle thatnew position of being in chargeof being the most mighty, and the governors of the world?So, always avoid war,because that always pushes human beings backward.Now if these inequalities, climate and war can be avoided,get ready for a world in equity,because this is what seems to be happening.
时间：14:46
zh-cn:这是我尚是一名学生时，于1972年，得知印度人比瑞典人要好的多时，所知道的未来。更准确些，这将会在2048年发生，会在季夏，7月份发生，更精准些，是7月27日。(鼓掌)2048年7月27日是我的期颐之时。(笑声)而我则希望能在第一节第39届TED印度大会上演讲。请及时预定座位！谢谢。
en:And that vision that I got as a young student,1972, that Indians can be much better than Swedes,is just about to happen.And it will happen preciselythe year 2048in the later part of the summer, in July,more precisely, the 27th of July.(Applause)The 27th of July, 2048is my 100th birthday.(Laughter)And I expect to speakin the first session of the 39th TED India.Get your bookings in time. Thank you very much.
时间：15:34
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
