时间： 0:11
zh-cn:资本主义运作的整个模式以及你我过去和现在以及你我过去和现在做生意的经济模式，是基于这样一个概念。这个概念米尔顿·弗里德曼（美国经济学家）可能说得更简洁，当然，亚当·斯密，现代经济学之父在很多很多年前就说过，也就是“无形的手”，这是说，“如果每个人都追求自身利益，这有助于实现公共福祉。”
en:The entire model of capitalismand the economic model that you and Idid business in,and, in fact, continue to do business in,was built around what probably Milton Friedmanput more succinctly.And Adam Smith, of course, the father of modern economicsactually said many, many years ago,the invisible hand,which is, &quot;If you continue to operatein your own self-interestyou will do the best good for society.&quot;
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:现在，资本主义做了很多好事，而且我也提到了很多发生过的好事，但另一方面，它还是没有办法解决我们社会中面临的一些挑战。这个我和在座的大多数都熟悉的商业模式这个我和在座的大多数都熟悉的商业模式就是我提到过的我称之为的“3G增长”模式：可持续的增长，一个季度接着一个季度；有竞争力的增长，做到比其他人都好；以及有利可图的增长，所以你持续地创造股东价值。但是我不得不说只做到这些已经不够了，我们需要从这个3G模式转变到一个我称之为的4G模式：一种负责任的增长。而且这必须是创造价值过程中一个非常重要的组成部分。也就是不仅要创造经济价值也要有社会价值。那些真正会变强大的公司会是那些真正做到第四个G的。而且这个4G模式其实非常简单：公司不能再充当无辜的旁观者而无视社会上正在发生的一切。他们需要开始负起自己的责任来服务社区 －那些真正支撑他们的人们。而且我们需要转变到一个双赢的模式，一个我们如何又赚钱又做好事的模式？我们如何才能保证我们的生意兴隆但同时我们也共同营造一个良好的环境呢？而那个模式就是关于如果能够做强做好。
en:Now, capitalism has done a lot of good thingsand I&#39;ve talked about a lot of good things that have happened,but equally, it has not been able to meet upwith some of the challenges that we&#39;ve seenin society.The model that at least I was brought up inand a lot of us doingbusiness were brought up inwas one which talked aboutwhat I call the three G&#39;s of growth:growth that is consistent,quarter on quarter;growth that is competitive,better than the other person;and growth that is profitable,so you continue to makemore and more shareholder value.And I&#39;m afraid this is not going to be good enoughand we have to move from this 3G modelto a model of what I callthe fourth G:the G of growth that is responsible.And it is this that has to becomea very important partof creating value.Of not just creating economic valuebut creating social value.And companies that will thrive are thosethat will actually embrace the fourth G.And the model of 4G is quite simple:Companies cannot afford to be just innocent bystandersin what&#39;s happening around in society.They have to begin to play their rolein terms of serving the communitieswhich actually sustain them.And we have to move to a modelof an and/and model which ishow do we make money and do good?How do we make surethat we have a great businessbut we also have a great environment around us?And that modelis all about doing well and doing good.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:但是问题说起来容易做起来难。我们怎么才能做到这一点呢？我坚信这个问题的答案就是领导力。它要重新定义新的商业模式，这个模式强调要想从事商业运营，就必须把这些方面结合起来。也就是你需要那些可以真正定义自己的社会角色的公司，它们能从更大的社会使命角度考虑，而不仅是从自身的产品和品牌出发。那些能够找到自身方向的公司，有着容不得商量的事情，不管世道如何变化－都不会改变的一些东西。你坚信着一些事情。价值和目标会是两个软驱动，它们会创造出未来的公司。
en:But the question is easier said than done.But how do we actually get that done?And I do believethat the answer to that is going to be leadership.It is going to be to redefinethe new business modelswhich understandthat the only license to operateis to combine these things.And for that you need businessesthat can actually define their rolein societyin terms of a much larger purposethan the products and brands that they sell.And companies that actually define a true north,things that are nonnegotiablewhether times are good, bad, ugly —doesn&#39;t matter.There are things that you stand for.Values and purpose are going to be the twodrivers of softwarethat are going to createthe companies of tomorrow.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:我现在来谈谈我自身的一些体验。1976年，我作为一个管理培训生加入了联合利华在印度的分部。我上班第一天我的主管告诉我，“你知道你为什么在这里吗？”我说，“我来这里卖很多的肥皂。”然后他说，“不，你是来改变生活的。”你是来改变生活的。你知道，我当时认为这太扯了。我们是个卖肥皂和汤的公司。我们怎么能改变生活？但就是那时我认识到了简单的举动比如卖一块肥皂可以比制药公司拯救更多的生命。我不知道在座有多少人知道五百万孩子活不过5岁只因为简单的感染，而那些感染通过用肥皂洗手就可以预防。
en:And I&#39;m going to now shiftto talking a little bit about my own experiences.I joined Unilever in 1976as a management trainee in India.And on my first day of workI walked in and my boss tells me,&quot;Do you know why you&#39;re here?&quot;I said, &quot;I&#39;m here to sell a lot of soap.&quot;And he said, &quot;No, you&#39;re here to change lives.&quot;You&#39;re here to change lives.You know, I thought it was rather facetious.We are a company that sells soap and soup.What are we doing about changing lives?And it&#39;s then I realizedthat simple actslike selling a bar of soapcan save more livesthan pharmaceutical companies.I don&#39;t know how many of you knowthat five million children don&#39;t reach the age of fivebecause of simple infections that can be preventedby an act of washing their hands with soap.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:我们发起了全世界最大的“洗手” 项目。我们也在运营着一个关于卫生与健康的项目，目前已经影响了5亿人。这不仅仅是卖肥皂，我们有一个更大的目标。而品牌真的可以处在社会变革的最前沿。原因是，当有20亿人用你的品牌时，那就是很好的品牌效应。小举动可以产生大变化。
en:We run the largesthand-washing programin the world.We are running a program on hygiene and healththat now touches half a billion people.It&#39;s not about selling soap,there is a larger purpose out there.And brands indeed can beat the forefront of social change.And the reason for that is,when two billion people use your brandsthat&#39;s the amplifier.Small actions can make a big difference.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:再举一个例子，我在印度的一个村子里走着。你们中有过这样经历的会知道这可不像是在公园里散步。我们有一位女士曾经是我们的一个小的经销商 －她很漂亮，很谦虚，她的家 －而她就站在外面，穿着非常得体，她的丈夫在她身后，然后是她的婆婆以及她的小姑子。社会秩序正在改变因为这位女士是我们沙克蒂项目的参与者。这个项目教妇女如何做小生意以及如何传播普及卫生与健康知识。现在我们有6万这样的妇女在印度。
en:Take another example,I was walking around in one of our villages in India.Now those of you who have done thiswill realize that this is no walk in the park.And we had this ladywho was one of our small distributors —beautiful, very, very modest, her home —and she was out there,dressed nicely,her husband in the back, her mother-in-law behindand her sister-in-law behind her.The social order was changingbecause this ladyis part of our Project Shaktithat is actually teaching womenhow to do small businessand how to carry the messageof nutrition and hygiene.We have 60,000 such womennow in India.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:这不是关于卖肥皂，这是关于确保在这个过程中你可以改变其他人的生活。小举动，大改变。
en:It&#39;s not about selling soap,it&#39;s about making surethat in the process of doing soyou can change people&#39;s lives.Small actions, big difference.
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:我们的研发团队不仅仅是为了创造美妙的洗涤剂，而是为了保证我们可以少用水。我们最近开发的一个清洗产品，它可以在你每次洗衣服的时候节约用水。如果我们可以让我们所有的用户都使用这个产品，那就是（节约）五千亿升的水啊。顺便说一句，这相当于一整个大陆一个月的用水量。大家想想看吧。小举动可以产生巨大的变化。
en:Our R&amp;D folksare not only working to give us some fantastic detergents,but they&#39;re working to make sure we use less water.A product that we&#39;ve just launched recently,One Rinse product that allows you to save waterevery time you wash your clothes.And if we can convert all our users to using this,that&#39;s 500 billion liters of water.By the way, that&#39;s equivalent to one month of waterfor a whole huge continent.So just think about it.There are small actions that can make a big difference.
时间： 6:04
zh-cn:我还可以举很多例子。我们的食品供应链， 我们的伟大的产品－不好意思给大家插播一下广告－家乐牌、家乐以及这些很棒的产品们。我们致力于确保我们所有的农业原材料都来自可持续发展的环境，百分之百。
en:And I can go on and on.Our food chain, our brilliant products —and I&#39;m sorry I&#39;m giving you a word from the sponsors —Knorr, Hellman&#39;s and all those wonderful products.We are committed to making sure thatall our agricultural raw materialsare sourced from sustainable sources,100-percent sustainable sources.
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:我们是最早宣布要从可持续的环境中采购我们所有的棕榈油的。不知道有多少人了解不从可持续的环境中获取棕榈油，会造成森林的过度砍伐从而产生全球20％的温室气体。我们是第一家做出改变的公司，这都是因为我们卖肥皂和汤。我的意思是说像你我的公司必须要确定一个目标，这个目标要负有责任感同时明白我们需要在我们所处的社会里起到一定作用。
en:We were the firstto say we are going to buy all of our palm oilfrom sustainable sources.I don&#39;t know how many of you know that palm oil,and not buying it from sustainable sources,can create deforestation that is responsiblefor 20 percent of the greenhouse gasses in the world.We were the first to embrace that,and it&#39;s all because we market soap and soup.And the point I&#39;m making hereis that companies like yours, companies like minehave to define a purposewhich embraces responsibilityand understands that we have to play our partin the communities in which we operate.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:我们提出了一个叫做联合利华可持续生活计划，“我们的目标是创造一个可持续生活的共同家园，我们要在2020年改变10亿人的生活状态。“现在的问题是，我们要怎么做到这点呢？答案很简单：我们不能仅靠一己之力来改变世界。有很有的你和我明白这一点。问题是，我们需要合作，我们需要联盟，非常重要的是，我们需要一种领导力，它可以带领我们一起改变世界并从改变我们自己做起。非常感谢大家。（掌声）
en:We introduced something calledThe Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, which said,&quot;Our purpose is to make sustainable living commonplace,and we are gong to change the livesof one billion people over 2020.&quot;Now the question here is,where do we go from here?And the answer to that is very simple:We&#39;re not going to change the world alone.There are plenty of you and plenty of uswho understand this.The question is,we need partnerships, we need coalitionsand importantly, we need that leadershipthat will allow us to take this from hereand to be the changethat we want to see around us.Thank you very much.(Applause)
