时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我要给大家介绍一部印度肥皂剧的最新的一集这部剧可能是世界上最长的在播肥皂剧了它就是板球但愿这个剧集能永远持续下去，因为有很多人，比如我，以此为生板球具备一个肥皂剧所具备的所有因素：爱，快乐，幸福悲伤，眼泪，和欢笑，也有不胜枚举的诡计和阴谋像所有优秀的剧集一样，20年中，随着观众兴趣的改变板球也发生着巨变这也就是板球所经历的它在20年时间中，转变成一项20回合的运动（指每方20回合的国际性20比赛，板球运动中限制性回合的一种。译者注）而这就是我今天演讲的主题一个小的改变如何引发了一个巨大的革命
en:So, what I&#39;m going to do isjust give you the latest episode of India&#39;s —maybe the world&#39;s — longest running soap opera,which is cricket.And may it run forever, because it gives people like me a living.It&#39;s got everything that you&#39;d want a normal soap opera to want:It&#39;s got love, joy, happiness,sadness, tears, laughter,lots of deceit, intrigue.And like all good soaps, it jumps 20 yearswhen the audience interest changes.And that&#39;s exactly what cricket has done.It&#39;s jumped 20 yearsinto 20-over game.And that&#39;s what I&#39;m going to talk about,how a small changeleads to a very big revolution.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:其实板球并不是总是像今天这样它并不是从一开始就是一项忙碌一族的运动曾经有段时间，一旦你参与板球运动你就是参与了无限时的比赛从比赛开始到比赛结束没有时间限制1939年3月，就有一场这样的比赛开始于3月3号一直到3月14号才结束而且促使它结束的原因是英国的板球运动员必须要坐两天火车从德班（南非一城市）出发赶到开普敦去那里搭乘17号起航的轮船而下一班船要隔很久的时间才起航所以，比赛还没一决胜负就只能先暂停当时一个英国的击球手说，“你猜怎么么着？再比那么半个小时我们可就赢了。”（笑声）这半个小时发生在12天之后这12天里有两个周日。但是周日是礼拜日当然不能用作打板球。然后有一天又下了雨于是大家都做在一块交交朋友之类的
en:But it wasn&#39;t always like that.Cricket wasn&#39;t always thisspeed-driven generations game.There was a time when you played cricket,you played timeless test matches,when you played on till the game got over.And there was this game in March 1939that started on the third of Marchand ended on the 14th of March.And it only ended because the English cricketershad to go from Durban to Cape Town,which is a two-hour train journey,to catch the ship that left on the 17th,because the next ship wasn&#39;t around for a long time.So, the match was ended in between.And one of the English batsmen said, &quot;You know what?Another half an hour and we would have won.&quot;(Laughter)Another half an hour after 12 days.There were two Sundays in between. But of course, Sundays are church days,so you don&#39;t play on Sundays. And one day it rained,so they all sat around making friends with each other.
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:但从这里可以看出一个印度人爱板球的原因因为我们拥有着同样的生活节奏（笑声）摩诃婆罗多也是差不多这样，对不对？你们战斗了一整天。然后太阳落山了，于是每个人都回到家然后你们再商量对策第二天去继续战斗，然后傍晚再回家板球和摩诃婆罗多的唯一不同是参加板球比赛的队员每个人都活着回到家，然后第二天再继续战斗印度王公们也经常看板球并非出于对这项运动的爱而是因为板球是一种他们迎合英殖民者统治的方式
en:But there is a reason why India fell in love with cricket:because we had about the same pace of life.(Laughter)The Mahabharata was like that as well, wasn&#39;t it?You fought by day, then it was sunset,so everyone went back home.And then you worked out your strategy,and you came and fought the next day, and you went back home again.The only difference between the Mahabharata and our cricket wasthat in cricket, everybody was alive to come back and fight the next day.Princes patronize the game,not because they love the game,but because it was a means of ingratiating themselvesto the British rulers.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:但是印度人爱板球还有另一个原因就是你只需要一块木板一个橡皮球，几个伙伴就可以在任何地方打板球了看看这个你可以在一个有一些石头的废物堆上打你可以在小巷子里打你不能在任何一个拐角处击球，因为这样球棒会打到墙还要注意别碰到空调和电线（笑声）你可以在刚果河岸上打刚果河一直都这么干净或者在一小块地上可以同时进行好几场比赛甚至你根本搞不清你到底是哪一场比赛的参赛队员（笑声）如你刚才所看到的，哪里都可以打板球。但是慢慢的，这个运动发生了变化终于
en:But there is one other reason why India fell in love with cricket,which was, all you needed was a plank of woodand a rubber ball, and any number of peoplecould play it anywhere.Take a look:You could play it in the dumpwith some rocks over there,you could play it in a little alley —you couldn&#39;t hit square anywhere, because the bat hit the wall;don&#39;t forget the air conditioning and the cable wires.(Laughter)You could play it on the banks of the Ganges —that&#39;s as clean as the Ganges has been for a long time.Or you could play many games in one small patch of land,even if you didn&#39;t know which game you were actually in.(Laughter)As you can see, you can play anywhere.But slowly the game moved on,you know, finally.
时间： 2:57
zh-cn:你不是总有五天的闲工夫。于是，我们改了，我们开始玩50回合板球。（除20回合外另一种限制回合的比赛形式）然后，一个巨大的意外发生了。在印度的竞技运动中我们从不刻意制造大事件但总有意外发生，在正确的时间，正确的地点。于是我们在1983年赢得了世界杯于是突然之间我们爱上了50回合的单日比赛于是我们每天都打50回合的单日比赛比任何别的地方都多
en:You don&#39;t always have five days. So, we moved on,and we started playing 50-over cricket.And then an enormous accident took place.In Indian sport we don&#39;t make things happen,accidents happen and we&#39;re in the right place at the right time, sometimes.And we won this World Cup in 1983.And suddenly we fell in love with the 50-over game,and we played it virtually every day.There was more 50-over cricket than anywhere.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:不久，另一个大日子降临了1983年是我们赢得世界杯的年份1991-92年度，我们找到了一个财政部长和一个首相他们想让世界了解印度让印度不再是那个充满神秘感的封闭的国家于是我们允许跨国公司进入印度我们削减了进出口关税我们让具有跨国预算的跨国公司进入他们目标在于人均收益所以他们对在印度的远景感到乐观所以他们需要一个载体来和印度人接触
en:But there was another big date.1983 was when we won the World Cup.1991,&#39;92, we found a finance ministerand a prime ministerwilling to let the world look at India,rather than be this great country of intrigueand mystery in this closed country.And so we allowed multinationals into India.We cut customs duties, we reduced import duties,and we got all the multinationals coming in,with multinational budgets,who looked at per-capita incomeand got very excited about the possibilities in India,and were looking for a vehicle to reach every Indian.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:这时有两个载体可选，一个是真实的，一个编造的编造的那个就是印度电影真实的那个就是板球所以我的一个朋友，就是坐在我正前方的这位来自百事公司的Ravi Tarival，决定选择板球来进行全球化推广于是百事就促成了这次重大变革。由于他们开始推广板球于是板球运动开始壮大板球开始给印度带来财富电视开始报道板球。在很长一段时间电视媒体总是宣称，“我们不会报道板球的除非你们给我们钱。”现在他们对电视媒体说，“好，下次转播权售价5500万美元再下次售价6120万美元。”有点曲线上升的意思
en:And there are only two vehicles in India — one real, one scripted.The scripted one is what you see in the movies,the real one was cricket.And so one of my friends sitting right here in front of me,Ravi Dhariwal from Pepsi, decided he&#39;s going to take itall over the world.And Pepsi was this big revolution, because they started taking cricket all over.And so cricket started becoming big;cricket started bringing riches in.Television started covering cricket. For a long timetelevision said, &quot;We won&#39;t cover cricketunless you pay us to cover it.&quot;Then they said, &quot;OK,the next rights are sold for 55 million dollars.The next rights are sold for 612 million dollars.&quot;So, it&#39;s a bit of a curve, that.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:于是我们的板球运动又发生了一次重要事件英格兰发明了20回合比赛制然后宣布，“全世界都必须进行20回合比赛制的板球比赛”就跟当年英格兰发明了板球，然后非让全世界都玩一样。真得为这个感谢上帝啊！（笑声）于是呢，你看吧，印度也得去打20回合比赛制（T20）的世界杯了。我们真不想参加T20世界杯可是8-1的悬殊投票结果迫使我们必须参加然后特别戏剧化的事发生了我们闯进了决赛，这个时刻将被我们每一个人永远铭记请看
en:And then another big accident happened in our cricket.England invented 20 overs cricket,and said, &quot;The world must play 20 overs cricket.&quot;Just as England invented cricket, and made the rest of the world play it.Thank God for them.(Laughter)And so, India had to go and play the T20 World Cup, you see.India didn&#39;t want to play the T20 World Cup.But we were forced to play it by an 8-1 margin.And then something very dramatic happened.We got to the final, and then this moment,that will remain enshrined forever,for everybody, take a look.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:（人群的欢呼声）
en:(Crowd cheering)
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:巴基斯坦的击球手企图不让印度队外野手接到球
en:The Pakistani batsman trying to clear the fielder.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:解说员：Zishan把球接到了！印度赢了！这是一场多么激动人心的T20决赛啊印度是世界冠军（欢呼声）印度是T20冠军M S Dhoni没有失误他将球击入空中，但是Zishan把球接到了，多么伟大的运动员。这是一场酣畅淋漓的巨大胜利印度，T20世界冠军。
en:Announcer: And Zishan takes it! India wins!What a match for a Twenty20 final.India, the world champions.(Cheering)India, T20 champions.But what a game we had, M. S. Dhonigot it right in the air, but Misbah-ul-Haq, what a player.A massive, massive success:India, the world TT champions.
时间： 5:25
zh-cn:突然间，印度又发现了20回合制板球的魅力当然这场大胜其实归功于巴基斯坦的击球手还以为我们的投球手会来个快速投球（笑声）如果他真的来了个快速投球，球就会按预料的路线走了但是球没有按预料的路线走。于是我们突然发现我们真的很擅长这项运动而且板球给与了印度人某种自信让我们开始坚信印度可以成为全世界最棒的那时正值外资流入印度印度刚刚变得更加自信了一些然后这个冠军又给了我们更大的自信去成功地做成些什么英国人特擅长发明东西我们还真得为这事谢天谢地另外，他们还这么仁慈宽厚他们让这个世界都擅长他们的发明（笑声）于是呢，英格兰发明T20板球然后让印度劫持了个世界杯冠军这还跟我们在药品上的二次设计生产不一样我们这回是直接拿走的，没做任何改变。（笑声）
en:Harsha Bhogle: Suddenly India discovered this power of 20-overs cricket.The accident, of course, there, was that the batsmanthought the bowler was bowling fast.(Laughter)If he had bowled fast, the ball would have gone where it was meant to go,but it didn&#39;t go. And we suddenly discoveredthat we could be good at this game.And what it also did wasit led to a certain pride in the fact that India could be the best in the world.It was at a time when investment was coming in,India was feeling a little more confident about itself.And so there was a feeling that there was great pridein what we can do.And thankfully for all of us,the English are very good at inventing things,and then the gracious people that they are,they let the world become very good at it.(Laughter)And so England invented T20 cricket,and allowed India to hijack it.It was not like reengineering that we do in medicine,we just took it straight away, as is.(Laughter)
时间： 6:18
zh-cn:然后，我们开展了我们自己的T20联赛赛程六周，是城市与城市之间的比赛这对我们来说是件新鲜事。我们原来只支持我们的国家—-在印度只有两样东西可以让印度人产生民族自豪感一个是战争中的印度军队，当然我们可不希望这经常发生另一样就是印度板球了现在突然间，我们得去支持自己城市的联赛了人们投入到这些城市间的联赛中是西学东渐来的美国是联赛之乡。于是有人说，“好。那就让我们也在印度发展一些金光闪闪的联赛吧”只是印度准备好了吗？因为在很长一段时间里，板球在印度都是组织规划的它从没被当成商品市场化过。来看看他们通过我们这美丽迷人又简单的家庭运动做了些什么吧一切都发生在突然之间
en:And so, we launched our own T20 league.Six weeks, city versus city.It was a new thing for us. We had only ever supported our country —the only two areas in which India was very proud abouttheir country, representing itself on the field.One was war, the Indian army, which we don&#39;t like to happen very often.The other was Indian cricket.Now, suddenly we had to support city leagues.But the people getting into these city leagueswere people who were taking their cues from the West.America is a home of leagues. And they said,&quot;Right, we&#39;ll build some glitzy leagues here in India.&quot;But was India ready for it?Because cricket, for a long time in India was always organized.It was never promoted, it was never sold — it was organized.And look what they did with our beautiful, nice,simple family game.All of a sudden, you had that happening.
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:这是一场可以媲美其他任何开幕式的开幕式表演这是一个人们开着雪佛兰和捷豹的印度这个国家每个月增加的手机数量是新西兰人口总数两倍所以，这是一个崭新的印度但同时，这也是个有些保守很愿意变得摩登一些又不太想直接向人们透露这个想法的印度所以当人们第一次看到拉拉队长时都惊呆啦每个人都偷偷看她们。但是没人承认他们在偷看
en:An opening ceremony to match every other.This was an India that was buying Corvettes. This was an India that was buying Jaguar.This was an India that was adding more mobile phones per monththan New Zealand&#39;s population twice over.So, it was a different India.But it was also a slightly more orthodox Indiathat was very happy to be modern,but didn&#39;t want to say that to people.And so, they were aghast when the cheerleaders arrived.Everyone secretly watched them, but everyone claimed not to.
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 8:07
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:印度板球的新老板不是旧式的王侯他们并不是那些本来不爱板球却被逼无奈投入板球的官僚他们是那些管理着大公司的人所以他们开始促成板球的盛世开始促成俱乐部的盛世还促成了这背后巨大的资金周转我是说印度超级联赛（IPL）在第一个球投出之前已经有23亿美元的收入其中16亿是10年以上电视转播的收益另7亿美元是特许经营权售卖之后得来的然后他们要做的就是吸引各个城市他们必须得学西方那一套对不对？毕竟我们现在有自己的联赛了可是呢，他们恰恰特别擅长把西方那一套本土化让我来给你们举个例子吧，看看他们是怎么做的他们的宣传一点也不曼联而是非常孟买的哦，来看看
en:The new owners of Indian cricket were not the old princes.They were not bureaucrats who were forcedinto sport because they didn&#39;t actually love it;these were people who ran serious companies.And so they started promoting cricket big time,started promoting clubs big time.And they&#39;ve started promoting them with huge money behind it.I mean the IPL had 2.3 billion dollarsbefore a ball was bowled,1.6 billion dollars for television revenue over 10 years,and another 70 million dollars plus from all these franchisesthat were putting in money. And then they had to appeal to their cities,but they had to do it like the West, right? Because we are setting up leagues.But what they were very good at doingwas making it very localized.So, just to give you an example of how they did it —not Manchester United style promotion,but very Mumbai style promotion. Take a look.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 9:41
zh-cn:当然，肯定有人说他们跳得好，板球不一定打得咋样。（笑声）不过随他们说吧。这个还改变了我们看待板球的方式呢原来的时候，如果你需要一个年轻的板球运动员你要去跑到你们那旮沓的小巷子里去挑你还十分满意这种造就板球运动员的体系而现在呢，突然间，如果你想要个投球手比方说孟买队需要个投球手他们就不需要跑到Kalbadevi啊,或者Shivaji公园这样的地方去发掘人才他们可以直接去特立尼达岛已经是新印度了对不对？这是个新世界你可以在任何地方发掘板球新秀只要你觉着你能发掘到的队员“人美价廉”然后突然之间整个印度体育界都意识到你可以挑选最“人美价廉”的运动员这个事实，随便在世界上哪个地方
en:Of course, a lot of people said, &quot;Maybe they dance better than they play.&quot;(Laughter)But that&#39;s all right. What it did also is it changed the way we looked at cricket.All along, if you wanted a young cricketer,you picked him up from the bylanes of your own little locality,your own city, and you were very proudof the system that produced those cricketers.Now, all of the sudden, if you were to bowl a shot —if Mumbai were to bowl a shot, for example,they needn&#39;t go to Kalbadevior Shivaji Park or somewhere to source them,they could go to Trinidad.This was the new India, wasn&#39;t it? This was the new world,where you can source from anywhereas long as you get the best product at the best price.And all of a sudden, Indian sport had awakened to the realitythat you can source the best product for the best priceanywhere in the world.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:所以，孟买印度人的队员可以前晚还在特立尼达和多巴哥，第二天就飞到德维恩布拉沃如果他必须回去代表西方独立队参赛他们就会问他，“你什么时候必须到？”他说，“我得某个时间赶到，所以我必须今天走”我们就会说，“不不不，不是问你啥时候必须走，而是问你啥时候必须到那。”于是他回答，“我必须在X号赶到”于是他们说，“好，你在这打到(X-1)号吧”于是，他在Hyderabad比赛，然后比完赛直接从体育馆赶到机场坐上私人直升机，在葡萄牙加一次油在巴西再加一次。他就能及时赶到西印度了（笑声）印度原来从未想过会玩这么大从来也不会想有人会说，“我要一个运动员给我比赛，比完赛我用直升机送他去牙买加的Kingston参加另一场比赛。”有时我就自已一个人在那想，“哇，我们真的已经到达某个层次了。我们解放了思想，并且到达了一个高度
en:So, the Mumbai Indians flew in Dwayne Bravo from Trinidad and Tobago,overnight. And when he had to go back to representthe West Indies, they asked him, &quot;When do you have to reach?&quot;He said, &quot;I have to be there by a certain time, so I have to leave today.&quot;We said, &quot;No, no, no. It&#39;s not about when you have to leave;it&#39;s about when do you have to reach there?&quot;And so he said, &quot;I&#39;ve got to reach on date X.&quot;And they said, &quot;Fine, you play to date X, minus one.&quot;So, he played in Hyderabad, went, straight after the game,went from the stadium to Hyderabad airport,sat in a private corporate jet — first refueling in Portugal,second refueling in Brazil; he was in West Indies in time.(Laughter)Never would India have thought on this scale before.Never would India have said, &quot;I want a player to playone game for me, and I will use a corporate jetto send him all the way back to Kingston, Jamaicato play a game.&quot;And I just thought to myself,&quot;Wow, we&#39;ve arrived somewhere in the world, you know?We have arrived somewhere. We are thinking big.&quot;
时间：11:15
zh-cn:而且这还使得印度两样最重要的东西开始水乳交融：板球，和印度电影板球和印度电影始终都存在但是他们开始发生关系是因为一些印度电影人开始收购俱乐部，成为俱乐部的老板于是呢，人们开始为了看到Preity Zinta（印度著名女影星）而去看板球人们开始为看到Preity Zinta而去看板球的同时一些有趣的事情发生了印度板球比赛中也能看到一些歌舞表演这就让板球开始有印度电影的影子当然了，如果你是Preity Zinta队的队员等会你会在视频片段中看到，如果你做得好你会得到Preity Zinta的拥抱作为奖励这可是个管用的奖励。来看看。每个人都在注视着Preity Zinta
en:But what this also did was it startedmarrying the two most important things in Indian cricket,which is cricket and the movies in Indian entertainment.There is cricket and the movies.And they came together because people in the moviesnow started owning clubs.And so, people started going to the cricket to watch Preity Zinta.They started going to the cricket to watch Shah Rukh Khan.And something very interesting happened.We started getting song and dance in Indian cricket.And so it started resembling the Indian movies more and more.And of course, if you were on Preity Zinta&#39;s team —as you will see on the clip that follows — if you did well,you got a hug from Preity Zinta.So that was the ultimate reason to do well. Take a look —everyone&#39;s watching Preity Zinta.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：12:12
zh-cn:当然还得提一下Shahrukh（印度一著名男影星）在鼓舞加尔各答观众的士气加尔各答的比赛有很多可是我们从没见过这样的比赛Shahrukh,唱着孟加拉语的歌，鼓动观众们一起为加尔各答加油，不是为印度国家队喔，而是为加尔各答然后再看看这个
en:And then of course there was Shah Rukh playing the Kolkata crowd.We&#39;d all seen matches in Kolkata,but we&#39;d never seen anything like this:Shah Rukh, with the Bengali song, getting the audiences all worked upfor Kolkata — not for India, but for Kolkata.But take a look at this.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：12:43
zh-cn:一个印度电影明星和一个巴基斯坦板球运动员拥抱，因为他们都支持加尔各达队，他们此时是一心的你能想象么？而且你知道巴基斯坦的板球运动员说了什么么？（掌声）我希望我能为Preity Zinta的板球队比赛
en:An Indian film star hugging a Pakistani cricketerbecause they&#39;d won in Kolkata.Can you imagine?And do you know what the Pakistani cricketer said?(Applause)&quot;I wish I was playing for Preity Zinta&#39;s team.&quot;
时间：12:56
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：13:01
zh-cn:我想我得抓住这个机会可能在坐的朋友们中来自巴基斯坦的并不多但是我很高兴你们能来因为我觉得我们可以证明我们可以成为朋友我们能在一起打板球，我们能成为朋友所以巴基斯坦的朋友们，感谢你们今天的到来
en:But I thought I&#39;d take this opportunity —there&#39;s a few people from Pakistan in here.I&#39;m so happy that you&#39;re herebecause I think we can show that we can both be together and be friends, right?We can play cricket together, we can be friends.So thank you very much for coming, all of you from Pakistan.
时间：13:14
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：13:18
zh-cn:当然了，也会有一些批评的声音会说，“运动员就这样被买来卖去么？他们是谷子？还是牛？”他们这么说是因为我们有拍卖会怎么给一个运动员定价呢拍卖会开始后有个人大锤一敲呯！这个人值这些钱。就像这样。
en:There was criticism too because they said,&quot;Players are being bought and sold?Are they grain?Are they cattle?&quot;Because we had this auction, you see.How do you fix a price for a player?And so the auction that followedliterally had people saying,&quot;Bang! so many million dollars for so-and-so player.&quot;There it is.
时间：13:41
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：13:46
zh-cn:拍卖人：到1500000美元啦。[不清楚][不清楚]价值450000美元
en:Auctioneer: Going at 1,500,000 dollars. Chennai.Shane Warne sold for 450,000 dollars.
时间：14:00
zh-cn:本来板球运动员一天薪水50卢比所以打一场测试赛（共5天）可以赚250卢比如果比赛第4天就结束了，就只能赚到200卢比了。现在最好的印度板球运动员，那种每场测试赛都不缺席，最一线的运动员一般合同上会签220000美元的年薪也就是说，他们工作六天，可以赚500000这把Andrew Flintoff从英格兰吸引到了印度他赚了150万美元后回国说，“我四周内赚的钱比兰帕德和杰拉德都多，哇，我赚的比足球运动员多啊。”他从哪儿赚了这么多钱呢？从印度一个小小的俱乐部而已。你能想象这种日子真的来临了吗？六周赚150万美元。真不错，对不对？
en:HB: Suddenly, a game which earned its players 50 rupees a day —so 250 rupees for a test match,but if you finish in four days you only got 200.The best Indian players who played every test match —every one of the internationals, the top of the line players —standard contracts are 220,000 dollars in a whole year.Now they were getting 500,000 for six days&#39; work.Then Andrew Flintoff came by from England,he got one and a half million dollars, and he went back and said,&quot;For four weeks, I&#39;m earning more than Frank Lampard and Steven Gerrard,and I&#39;m earning more than the footballers, wow.&quot;And where was he earning it from? From a little club in India.Could you have imagined that day would come?One and a half million dollars for six weeks&#39; work.That&#39;s not bad, is it?
时间：14:41
zh-cn:现在你们知道哪些比赛前的23亿美元都去了哪了吧印度一直以来就喜欢挑战世界上最好的这已经成了印度的一个品牌标志Lalit Modi（印度著名板球运动员）登上今周刊的封面IPL变成印度最赫赫有名的品牌由于选举原因，IPL要转移到南非比赛我们在比赛开始前三周启程在比赛前三周开始启程到南非去知道我们为什么这么做吗？因为在赛程开始前三周之前没有哪个国家比我们效率更低了但在最后三周，没有人比我们效率更高。
en:So, at 2.3 billion dollars before the first ball was bowled.What India was doing, though, was benchmarkingitself against the best in the world,and it became a huge brand.Lalit Modi was on the cover of Business Today.IPL became the biggest brand in Indiaand, because our elections, had to be moved to South Africa,and we had to start the tournament in three weeks.Move a whole tournament to South Africa in three weeks.But we did it. You know why?Because no country works as slowly as we dotill three weeks before an event,and nobody works fast as we do in the last three weeks.
时间：15:10
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：15:19
zh-cn:我们的人口基数，在很长一段时间都被看做是制约我们发展的障碍突然间，障碍变成了财富因为有更多人在看板球啊——庞大的消费阶层——每个人都去看板球我们几乎把板球变成了印度唯一的运动项目这很可惜，但是在印度其他任何运动都只能把板球推向一个更流行的位置这可以算是我们这个时代的一点小悲哀
en:Our population, which for a long time we thought was a problem,suddenly became our biggest assetbecause there were more people watching —the huge consuming class —everybody came to watch the cricket.We&#39;d also made cricket the only sport in India,which is a pity, but in India every other sportpushes cricket to become big,which is a bit of a tragedy of our times.
时间：15:39
zh-cn:所以最后我要承认这一切还是有一些负面效用的很长一段时间里，印度是个又穷又脏，乞丐多弄蛇人多，藏污纳垢新德里痢疾泛滥的国家——人们在来印度之前就都听说过新德里痢疾了然后，一瞬间，它变成了一块充满机会的福地全世界的板球运动员都会说，“我们爱印度，我们喜欢在那里打比赛”你要知道，这种感觉真是很好于是我们说，“真是有钱能使鬼推磨啊”你能想象不，一旦你在这个地方有钱可赚新德里痢疾就被抛到九霄云外了这里不再藏污纳垢，不再有乞丐。所有的弄蛇人都消失了一切成了过去式。这验证了资本主义世界的规律
en:Now, this last minute before I go —there&#39;s a couple of side effects of all this.For a long time, India was this country of poverty,dust, beggars,snake charmers, filth,Delhi belly — people heard Delhi belly stories before they came.And, all of a sudden, India was this land of opportunity.Cricketers all over the world said,&quot;You know, we love India. We love to play in India.&quot;And that felt good, you know?We said, &quot;The dollar&#39;s quite powerful actually.&quot;Can you imagine, you&#39;ve got the dollar on viewand there&#39;s no Delhi belly in there anymore.There&#39;s no filth, there&#39;s no beggars, all the snake charmers have vanished,everybody&#39;s gone. This tells you how the capitalist world rules.
时间：16:19
zh-cn:好，最后总结一下今天演讲的主题是印度盗用英国人的一项运动虽然T20能作为下一任传教士向整个世界普及板球因为如果你想向其他国家普及一项运动你必须把这项运动简化你总不能教中国人一项无限时，大战14天最后还不了了之的运动吧这样，它永远都没法走向世界所以T20可以做到这点希望它能让每个人都更富裕，也希望它能将板球推向更盛大的阶段希望它能给我们这些板球评论员们更多的一席之地
en:Right so, finally,an English game that India usurped a little bit,but T20 is going to be the next missionary in the world.If you want to take the game around the world,it&#39;s got to be the shortest form of the game.You can&#39;t take a timeless test to China and sit through 14 days with no result in the end,or you can&#39;t take it all over the world.So that&#39;s what T20 is doing.Hopefully, it&#39;ll make everyone richer, hopefully it&#39;ll make the game biggerand hopefully it&#39;ll give cricket commentators more time in the business.
时间：16:45
zh-cn:谢谢大家 十分感谢
en:Thank you very much. Thank you.
时间：16:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
