时间： 0:11
zh-cn:如果你可以比现在的你更好，你希望是怎样？比如说，你的基因可以有一些改动，使得你有更好的记忆力，更精确，更准且更快。或者你想变得更健康，更强壮，更多的精力。你想变得更具吸引力，更加自信？能健康地活很久，这怎么样？或者，你是想要有更多的创造力。你最想要什么呢？如果你只能有一样，你想要什么？（听众：创造力。）创造力。有多少人要选创造力？举起您的手，让我看看。有一些。或许和我们这里有创造力的人数一样多。那非常好。有多少想要记忆力？多一些了。健康呢？少一些。长寿呢？啊，大多数。我是医生，看到这里我很高兴。如果你能有这其中之一的改变，世界将会非常不同。这只是想象吗？或是说，这或许可能发生？
en:How would you like to be better than you are?Suppose I saidthat, with just a few changes in your genes,you could get a better memory —more precise,more accurate and quicker.Or maybe you&#39;d like to be more fit, stronger,with more stamina.Would you like to be more attractive and self-confident?How about living longer with good health?Or perhaps you&#39;re one of thosewho&#39;s always yearned for more creativity.Which one would you like the most?Which would you like, if you could have just one?(Audience Member: Creativity.)Creativity.How many people would choose creativity?Raise your hands. Let me see.A few. Probably about as many as there are creative people here.(Laughter) That&#39;s very good.How many would opt for memory?Quite a few more.How about fitness?A few less.What about longevity?Ah, the majority. That makes me feel very good as a doctor.If you could have any one of these,it would be a very different world.Is it just imaginary?Or, is it, perhaps, possible?
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:进化是个永久的话题了，在TED的论坛上。但是今天我要告诉你们关于这个话题的一个医生的看法。20世纪著名的遗传学家，T.杜布尚斯基（T.G. Dobzhansky），同时他也是受圣餐的教徒，在俄罗斯东正教教堂里。他曾写过一篇文章，名为：“生物学的一切很难说通，除非用进化的思想来思考。”现在，如果你是不相信生物进化证据的现在你可以关掉你的助听器的时候了，拿出你的个人通讯设备了 —你得到允许了 —或者再看一次卡瑟林·舒尔茨（Kathryn Schulz)那本关于犯错的书。因为接下来的演讲你将感觉到没有任何意义。（笑声）可如果你相信生物进化论，想想一下这个：那是关于过去的，还是关于将来的？那是发生在其他生物身上的，还是我们也会发生？
en:Evolution has been a perennial topichere at the TED Conference,but I want to give you todayone doctor&#39;s take on the subject.The great 20th-century geneticist,T.G. Dobzhansky,who was also a communicantin the Russian Orthodox Church,once wrote an essay that he titled&quot;Nothing in Biology Makes SenseExcept in the Light of Evolution.&quot;Now if you are one of thosewho does not accept the evidence for biological evolution,this would be a very good time to turn off your hearing aid,take out your personal communications device —I give you permission —and perhaps take another look at Kathryn Schultz&#39;s book on being wrong,because nothing in the rest of this talkis going to make any sense whatsoever to you.(Laughter)But if you do acceptbiological evolution,consider this:is it just about the past,or is it about the future?Does it apply to others,or does it apply to us?
时间： 2:32
zh-cn:这是一张生命树的图。在这张图片里，我让树状从中心向各个方向展开分支，因为如果看生命树的边角部分，每个现有的物种在那些分支尖端的，用进化术语来说，都是成功的，存活了。这表明了一种适合度对它的环境。人类的部分，在这个分支里，在一个边角的末端，当然是我们最感兴趣的。我们从一个共同祖先分支出来和现代黑猩猩分开大概是600万或800万年前。在这期间，大概有20到25个类人的物种。有些来过又走了。我们在这里生存了13万年。看起来，我们似乎和这生命树的其他物种离得很远。但事实上，在很多层面上，组成我们细胞的基本的基本的构造是几乎一样的。
en:This is another look at the tree of life.In this picture,I&#39;ve put a bush with a center branching out in all directions,because if you look at the edgesof the tree of life,every existing speciesat the tips of those brancheshas succeeded in evolutionary terms:it has survived;it has demonstrated a fitnessto its environment.The human part of this branch,way out on one end,is, of course, the one that we are most interested in.We branch off of a common ancestorto modern chimpanzeesabout six or eight million years ago.In the interval,there have been perhaps 20 or 25different species of hominids.Some have come and gone.We have been here for about 130,000 years.It may seem like we&#39;re quite remotefrom other parts of this tree of life,but actually, for the most part,the basic machinery of our cellsis pretty much the same.
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:你知道吗？我们可以利用和应用一个普通细菌的构造来制造人类胰岛素的蛋白质而用来治疗糖尿病？这并非人类的胰岛素；这是一样的蛋白质在生化角度上和我们胰腺生成的很难区分。说到细菌，你知道我们每人肚子里的细菌多于我们身体里的细胞？也许有10倍还要多。大家想想，当安东尼奥·达马西奥（Antonio R Damasio）问你个人自我形象时，你会想到细菌吗？我们的肠子是一个很适宜的环境，对那些细菌来说。温暖，黑暗，潮湿，相当舒适。而且，我们还会提供给它们需要的几乎所有的养分它们不费任何力气。对细菌来说，这真是逍遥自在，虽然有偶尔的打扰被不情愿地排放出去。但仍然，对细菌来说，你是一个极好的生活环境，而且他们对你的生活也是必需的。他们帮助消化你所需的养分。而且他们还保护你抵抗一些疾病。
en:Do you realize that we can take advantageand commandeer the machinery of a common bacteriumto produce the protein of human insulinused to treat diabetics?This is not like human insulin;this is the same proteinthat is chemically indistinguishablefrom what comes out of your pancreas.And speaking of bacteria,do you realize that each of us carries in our gutmore bacteriathan there are cells in the rest of our body?Maybe 10 times more.I mean think of it,when Antonio Damasio asks about your self-image,do you think about the bacteria?Our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environmentfor those bacteria.It&#39;s warm, it&#39;s dark, it&#39;s moist,it&#39;s very cozy.And you&#39;re going to provide all the nutrition that they could possibly wantwith no effort on their part.It&#39;s really like an Easy Street for bacteria,with the occasional interruptionof the unintended forced rush to the exit.But otherwise,you are a wonderful environment for those bacteria,just as they are essential to your life.They help in the digestion of essential nutrients,and they protect you against certain diseases.
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:不过未来会是怎样呢？我们是否已经处于进化上的平衡，作为一个物种？或者，我们的命运是会变成其他不同的物种 ——其他或许能更好地适应环境？现在让我们回到宇宙大爆炸的时候，140亿年前 —地球，太阳系，大概是45亿年前 —原始生命的最初跡象，可能三、四十亿年前的地球 —第一个多细胞有机体，大概是在8亿或者10亿年前 —然后是人类这一物种终于出现在最后的13万年。在这宇宙的庞大的未完成的交响曲中，地球上的生命就如一个简单的乐谱；动物，是单一的小节而人类，是一个装饰音。那就是我们。那也是这次演讲的有趣的部分，我希望你们喜欢。
en:But what will come in the future?Are we at some kind of evolutionary equipoiseas a species?Or, are we destinedto become something different —something, perhaps, even better adaptedto the environment?Now let&#39;s take a step back in timeto the Big Bang, 14 billion years ago —the Earth, the solar system,about four and a half billion years —the first signs of proto-life,maybe three to four billion years ago on Earth —the first multi-celled organisms,perhaps as muchas 800 or a billion years ago —and then the human species,finally emergingin the last 130,000 years.In this vast unfinished symphony of the universe,life on Earth is like a brief measure;the animal kingdom,like a single measure;and human life,a small grace note.That was us.That also constitutes the entertainment portion of this talk,so I hope you enjoyed it.
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:08
zh-cn:在我还是大学新生的时候，我上了我第一节生物学课。我很震惊，生物学是优雅且美丽的。我为进化的力量而着迷，并意识到一个很基本的东西：在大部分生命存在的形式中，在单细胞生物体中，每一个细胞的简单构造，和所有该细胞的基因能量，都被子细胞继承。不过在多细胞生物体出来的时候，情况开始变化。有性生殖开始进入画面。而且非常重要的是，采用有性生殖的方式而传递的基因，而其他部分变得可消耗。实际上，你可以说我们部分的死亡的必然性出现在进化里和有性繁殖同时发生
en:Now when I was a freshman in college,I took my first biology class.I was fascinatedby the elegance and beauty of biology.I became enamored of the power of evolution,and I realized something very fundamental:in most of the existence of lifein single-celled organisms,each cell simply divides,and all of the genetic energy of that cellis carried on in both daughter cells.But at the time multi-celled organisms come online,things start to change.Sexual reproduction enters the picture.And very importantly,with the introduction of sexual reproductionthat passes on the genome,the rest of the bodybecomes expendable.In fact, you could saythat the inevitability of the death of our bodiesenters in evolutionary timeat the same momentas sexual reproduction.
时间： 7:07
zh-cn:如今我得说当我还是大学生的时候我当时想，好吧，性/死亡，性/死亡，为性而亡—那时候听起来还是挺合理的，但一年一年过去我开始产生很多疑问。我开始理解乔治伯恩斯（George Burns），他之前一直在拉斯维加斯表演直到他90岁。有一天晚上，有人敲他住的酒店的门。他开了门。出现在他面前的是一个漂亮的穿得很少舞女。她看着他说，“我来这里是想要做个大爱。”“好的，”乔治说，“那我就喝汤吧。” (Soup 发音接近Super.)
en:Now I have to confess,when I was a college undergraduate,I thought, okay, sex/death, sex/death, death for sex —it seemed pretty reasonable at the time,but with each passing year,I&#39;ve come to have increasing doubts.I&#39;ve come to understand the sentiments of George Burns,who was performing still in Las Vegaswell into his 90s.And one night, there&#39;s a knock at his hotel room door.He answers the door.Standing before him is a gorgeous, scantily clad showgirl.She looks at him and says,&quot;I&#39;m here for super sex.&quot;&quot;That&#39;s fine,&quot; says George, &quot;I&#39;ll take the soup.&quot;
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:我开始意识到作为一个医生一直以来我努力的方向是一个不同于进化方向的方向 —并不是绝对的矛盾，只是不同。我一直是在努力去保持想要使得我们健康。想要使得我们从疾病中恢复。想要我们活得更长久更健康。进化，却是传递基因给下一代适应和存活从上一代到下一代。从进化论的观点来看，我们就像是火箭助推器被设计成发送“基因”载荷到下一层轨道然后再跌落大海。我想我们都应该理解伍迪·艾伦（Woody Allen）所说的，他说，“我不想通过我的工作而不朽，“我想通过不死而不朽。”
en:I came to realize,as a physician,that I was working toward a goalwhich was different from the goal of evolution —not necessarily contradictory, just different.I was trying to preserve the body.I wanted to keep us healthy.I wanted to restore health from disease.I wanted us to live long and healthy lives.Evolution is all about passing on the genometo the next generation,adapting and survivingthrough generation after generation.From an evolutionary point of view,you and I are like the booster rocketsdesigned to send the genetic payloadinto the next level of orbitand then drop off into the sea.I think we would all understand the sentiment that Woody Allen expressedwhen he said, &quot;I don&#39;t want to achieve immortality through my work.I want to achieve it through not dying.&quot;
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:45
zh-cn:进化，不是一定是要活得更长久。它不一定看中那些个头最大的或者最强壮的，或者速度最快的而且甚至不是最聪明的。进化想要的是那些能最好适应它们环境的生物。这是一个单一的成功存活的测试。在大海深处，细菌都是耐热的它们能在热蒸汽中生存不然地话，如果那里有鱼，就会有苏斯维特煮鱼，不过，它们却可以让自己生活在一个舒服的环境里。
en:Evolution does not necessarilyfavor the longest-lived.It doesn&#39;t necessarily favor the biggestor the strongest or the fastest,and not even the smartest.Evolution favorsthose creatures best adaptedto their environment.That is the sole testof survival and success.At the bottom of the ocean,bacteria that are thermophilicand can survive at the steam vent heatthat would otherwise produce, if fish were there,sous-vide cooked fish,nevertheless, have managedto make that a hospitable environment for them.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:所以，这意味着什么，当我们回头看进化过程中发生的事情，以及我们再想想进化中的人类，特别是我们向上看到下一个阶段的时候我只能说有很多的可能性。第一种可能，我们不会进化了。我们已经达到了某个平衡点。这背后的原因可能是，首先，我们通过药物，可以保留很多基因那些本会被淘汰和从大多数人中移除的基因。其次，我们是一个能够配置我们的环境的物种使得环境来适应我们以及我们来适应环境。另外，我们移民，流通而且混杂在一起这使得你不在处于隔离状态，而这个状态又正是进化发生的必要条件。
en:So what does this mean,as we look back at what has happened in evolution,and as we think about the place againof humans in evolution,and particularly as we look aheadto the next phase,I would saythat there are a number of possibilities.The first is that we will not evolve.We have reacheda kind of equipoise.And the reasoning behind that would be,first, we have, through medicine,managed to preserve a lot of genesthat would otherwise be selected outand be removed from the population.And secondly, we as a specieshave so configured our environmentthat we have managed to make it adapt to usas well as we adapt to it.And by the way, we immigrate and circulateand intermix so muchthat you can&#39;t any longerhave the isolation that is necessaryfor evolution to take place.
时间：10:30
zh-cn:第二种可能，就还是传统的进化形式，自然的，由自然界力量推动的。在此争议的就是进化的轮盘转得缓慢，是不能阻挡。只有孤立现象存在，而我们作为一个物种统治着遥远的星球那就会有孤立的现象，环境的改变会导致的进化自然界方式的进化。
en:A second possibilityis that there will be evolution of the traditional kind,natural, imposed by the forces of nature.And the argument here would bethat the wheels of evolution grind slowly,but they are inexorable.And as far as isolation goes,when we as a speciesdo colonize distant planets,there will be the isolation and the environmental changesthat could produce evolutionin the natural way.
时间：11:01
zh-cn:但是有第三种可能，一种诱人的，有趣且骇人的可能性。我把它叫做：新进化 —一种新的进化方式不是简单的自然界方式，是有指导和选择的方式由我们作为个体来进行选择而促成的方式。现在，这要怎么发生呢？我们如何可能让这发生呢？先来考虑现实现在，一些文化中的人们，他们对他们的后代做的一些选择。其中在一些文化中，他们选择更多的男生多余女生。对整个社会来说，这必定不是好事，但是这确是一个个体和家庭做出的一个选择。
en:But there&#39;s a third possibility,an enticing, intriguing and frightening possibility.I call it neo-evolution —the new evolutionthat is not simply natural,but guided and chosenby us as individualsin the choices that we will make.Now how could this come about?How could it be possible that we would do this?Consider, first, the realitythat people today, in some cultures,are making choices about their offspring.They&#39;re, in some cultures,choosing to have more males than females.It&#39;s not necessarily good for the society,but it&#39;s what the individual and the family are choosing.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:再来想想，如果你可以去选择，不是简单的选择你的子女的性别，而是选择在你身体里去做一些基因的调整可以治愈或者防治疾病的调整。如果你真能做一些基因的调整去消除糖尿病或者阿尔茨海默氏症或者减少癌症的发病率或者消除中风？难道你不想对你的基因做那些改变？如果我们向前看，这些改变将会是非常有可能的。
en:Think also,if it were possible everfor you to choose, not simply to choose the sex of your child,but for you in your bodyto make the genetic adjustmentsthat would cure or prevent diseases.What if you could make the genetic changesto eliminate diabetes or Alzheimer&#39;sor reduce the risk of canceror eliminate stroke?Wouldn&#39;t you wantto make those changesin your genes?If we look ahead,these kind of changesare going to be increasingly possible.
时间：12:28
zh-cn:人类基因组计划从1990年开始，并用了13年时间。它花费了27亿美元。在计划完成之后的2004年，你能做同样的事情两千万美元，三到四个月。今天你就能得到一个完整的基因序列包含了人体基因的30亿个碱基对花费大概是2万美元大概是一个星期之内。不会太久就能实现一千美元的人类基因组，而且越来越多人都可以做。就在一周前，国家工程院（美国）授予了“德雷珀奖”给弗朗西斯·阿诺德（Francis Arnold）和威廉·思特梅尔（Willem Stemmer）两位科学家独立开发了技术能使得自然进化过程更快且更多可取蛋白质能够更有效地产生。弗朗西斯·阿诺德（Francis Arnold）称之为“定向进化”。多年前，拉斯克奖(Albert Lasker Prize)授予了科学家山中伸弥（Shinya Yamanaka）他的研究是他取用成一个成熟的皮肤细胞，一个纤维组织母细胞并通过操控仅仅四个基因，他引导该细胞还原成一个多能干细胞 —一个有可能成为我们身体中任何细胞的细胞。
en:The Human Genome Projectstarted in 1990,and it took 13 years.It cost 2.7 billion dollars.The year after it was finished in 2004,you could do the same jobfor 20 million dollars in three to four months.Today, you can have a complete sequenceof the three billion base pairs in the human genomeat a cost of about 20,000 dollarsand in the space of about a week.It won&#39;t be very longbefore the reality will bethe 1,000-dollar human genome,and it will be increasingly available for everyone.Just a week ago,the National Academy of Engineeringawarded its Draper Prizeto Francis Arnold and Willem Stemmer,two scientists who independently developed techniquesto encourage the natural process of evolution to work fasterand to lead to desirable proteinsin a more efficient way —what Frances Arnold calls &quot;directed evolution.&quot;A couple of years ago, the Lasker Prizewas awarded to the scientist Shinya Yamanakafor his researchin which he took an adult skin cell,a fibroblast,and by manipulating just four genes,he induced that cellto revert to a pluripotential stem cell —a cell potentially capableof becoming any cell in your body.
时间：13:58
zh-cn:这些改变正在进行中。同样的技术就是能从产生病毒的细菌中生成人体胰岛素这将不仅仅是保护你抵抗它们，还会产生对其他病毒的免疫力。你是否相信，有一个实验在研究预防流感的疫苗是从一种烟草植物细胞中培育的。你能想象烟草中也能有有益的东西吗？
en:These changes are coming.The same technologythat has produced the human insulin in bacteriacan make virusesthat will not only protect you against themselves,but induce immunity against other viruses.Believe it or not,there&#39;s an experimental trial going onwith vaccine against influenzathat has been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant.Can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco?
时间：14:26
zh-cn:这些在今天都是现实，而且在未来，会有更多的可能。届时想想另外两个小的变化。你能改变自己身体中的细胞，那如果你能改变你后代的细胞呢？如果你能改变精子和卵子，或者是改变新的受精卵，能给你的后代更好的机会更健康的生活—消除了糖尿病，消除了血友病，减少了癌症的机率？谁不想要更健康的儿女呢？到时候，同样的解析技术，同样的科学技术能够产生防御疾病的改变，也会使得我们能集成一些超级的属性，高级别的能力 —更好的记忆力。为什么不要肯·詹宁斯（Ken Jenniings）的机智特别是你能有和下一代沃森电脑系统一样的机智？为什么不要快速的收缩肌肉能让我们跑得更快更持久？为什么不活得更长久？这些都会不可抗拒。
en:These are all reality today,and [in] the future, will be evermore possible.Imagine thenjust two other little changes.You can change the cells in your body,but what if you could change the cells in your offspring?What if you could change the sperm and the ova,or change the newly fertilized egg,and give your offspring a better chanceat a healthier life —eliminate the diabetes, eliminate the hemophilia,reduce the risk of cancer?Who doesn&#39;t want healthier children?And then, that same analytic technology,that same engine of sciencethat can producethe changes to prevent disease,will also enable usto adopt super-attributes,hyper-capacities —that better memory.Why not have the quick witof a Ken Jennings,especially if you can augment itwith the next generation of the Watson machine?Why not have the quick twitch musclethat will enable you to run faster and longer?Why not live longer?These will be irresistible.
时间：15:38
zh-cn:而且当我们处在一个位置我们可以传给下一代，我们可以集成我们想要的能力，我们就会改变旧模式的进化为新进化。我们将有这样的过程一般或许需要10万年，但我们能压缩到一千年 —或许甚至在下一个100年。这些改变我们的孙辈或者他们的孙辈将会拥有的。他们会使用这些选择吗？去创建一个更好的社会？更成功的，更友善的社会？或者我们会有选择性地选择不同的能力改变我们其中的一些人而不是另外的一些人？我们是否会创建一个社会更为无聊和统一？或者更为健全和更多样？这是所有的问题是要让我们面对的。
en:And when we are at a positionwhere we can pass it on to the next generation,and we can adopt the attributes we want,we will have convertedold-style evolutioninto neo-evolution.We&#39;ll take a processthat normally might require 100,000 years,and we can compress it down to a thousand years —and maybe even in the next 100 years.These are choicesthat your grandchildren,or their grandchildren,are going to have before them.Will we use these choicesto make a society that is better,that is more successful, that is kinder?Or, will we selectively choose different attributesthat we want for some of usand not for others of us?Will we make a societythat is more boring and more uniform,or more robust and more versatile?These are the kinds of questionsthat we will have to face.
时间：16:41
zh-cn:而最重要的，我们能否推进智力，或者是继承智力，让我们更明智地来做这些选择？或好或坏地，比你想象地还要快地我们将会面临这些选择。
en:And most profoundly of all,will we ever be able to develop the wisdom,and to inherit the wisdom,that we&#39;ll need to make these choices wisely?For better or worse,and sooner than you may think,these choices will be up to us.
时间：16:58
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:00
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
