时间： 0:11
zh-cn:卡洛斯，一个越战海军陆战队员，自愿参与了三次行动，每次行动中他都受了枪伤。在1971年，他因健康原因退役了，因为他体内有太多的子弹碎片，导致可能触发金属探测仪。在接下来的42年当中，他被噩梦缠身，在公共场所会极度不安，封闭、抑郁。他利用酒精自我麻醉。他结过又离过三次婚。卡洛斯患有创伤后应激障碍（PTSD）。
en:Carlos,the Vietnam vet Marinewho volunteered for three toursand got shot up in every one.In 1971, he was medically retiredbecause he had so muchshrapnel in his bodythat he was setting off metal detectors.For the next 42 years,he suffered from nightmares,extreme anxiety in public,isolation, depression.He self-medicated with alcohol.He was married and divorced three times.Carlos had post-traumatic stress disorder.
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:我是一名帮助人类减轻痛苦的心理学家，在过去的10年当中，我一直把像卡洛斯这样的退伍军人经历的PTSD作为我的研究目标。不久前，关于PTSD的研究都还不够完善。因此，我们一直都不知道要怎样应对。我们让一部分退伍军人大量服药。另一部分则让他们住院观察，进行一般性的团体治疗，还有一些我们就简单的对他们说：“回家吧，尝试去忘记你的经历。”最近，我们还尝试训练医疗犬，荒野静修等等——很多能够短期减缓压力的方式，但并不能长期彻底根除PTSD造成的症状。
en:Now, I became a psychologistto help mitigate human suffering,and for the past 10 years, my targethas been the suffering caused by PTSD,as experienced by veterans like Carlos.Until recently, the science of PTSDjust wasn&#39;t there.And so, we didn&#39;t know what to do.We put some veterans on heavy drugs.Others we hospitalizedand gave generic group therapy,and others still we simply said to them,&quot;Just go home and try to forgetabout your experiences.&quot;More recently, we&#39;ve tried therapy dogs,wilderness retreats —many things which maytemporarily relieve stress,but which don&#39;t actually eliminatePTSD symptoms over the long term.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:但是事情已经有所改善了。我今天来是想告诉你们，我们已经可以彻底根除PTSD了，不仅仅是缓解症状，而且对大量的退伍军人都有效。因为最新的科学研究已经能够客观地，重复地表明哪些治疗能真正消除病症，而哪些不能。
en:But things have changed.And I am here to tell youthat we can now eliminate PTSD,not just manage the symptoms,and in huge numbers of veterans.Because new scientific researchhas been able to show,objectively, repeatedly,which treatments actuallyget rid of symptoms and which do not.
时间： 1:44
zh-cn:结果表明，对于PTSD的最佳治疗方式，是使用许多与军队训练战士备战时相同的原则。
en:Now as it turns out,the best treatments for PTSD usemany of the very same training principlesthat the military usesin preparing its trainees for war.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:制造战争——这是我们擅长的事情。我们人类一直都在制造战争，甚至当我们还没有完全进化就开始了。自从那时起，我们已经从使用石头和肌腱，发展到了使用能够想象到的最复杂的，最具毁灭性的武器。为了使我们的战士能够使用这些武器，我们会使用最先进的训练方式训练他们。我们善于制造战争。我们还善于锻炼我们的战士去作战。
en:Now, making war —this is something that we are good at.We humans have been making warsince before we were even fully human.And since then, we have gonefrom using stone and sinewto developing the most sophisticatedand devastating weapon systems imaginable.And to enable our warriorsto use these weapons,we employ the most cutting-edgetraining methods.We are good at making war.And we are good at trainingour warriors to fight.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:但是，当我们考虑当今老兵的经历，我们就会意识到，我们并不善于为他们回家做准备。为什么会这样呢？我们的祖先生活在冲突当中，他们就在他们生活的地方进行斗争。所以直到进化史的近代阶段，人类都几乎没有学习如何从战场回家的需求，因为我们从来没有真正这样做过。但值得庆幸的是，当今，大多数人类都居住在和平社会当中，当冲突发生时，我们，特别是美国，有这些科技，可以让我们的士兵进行先进的训练，把他们扔在世界的任何角落去打仗，当战争结束时，再把他们载回和平地区。
en:Yet, when we consider the experienceof the modern-day combat veteran,we begin to see that wehave not been as goodat preparing them to come home.Why is that?Well, our ancestors livedimmersed in conflict,and they fought right where they lived.So until only very recentlyin our evolutionary history,there was hardly a need to learnhow to come home from war,because we never really did.But thankfully, today,most of humanity livesin far more peaceful societies,and when there is conflict,we, especially in the United States,now have the technology to putour warriors through advanced training,drop them in to fightanywhere on the globeand when they&#39;re done,jet them back to peacetime suburbia.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:但是让我们想象一下这种感受。我和那些退伍战士聊过，他们告诉我，曾经他们身处阿富汗残暴的交火当中，目睹杀戮和死亡，而三天后他们就要带着冰袋去参加孩子的足球比赛。“思想混乱”是他们最常使用的词汇。
en:But just imagine for a momentwhat this must feel like.I&#39;ve spoken with veterans who&#39;ve told methat one day they&#39;re in a brutalfirefight in Afghanistanwhere they saw carnage and death,and just three days later,they found themselvestoting an ice chestto their kid&#39;s soccer game.&quot;Mindfuck&quot; is the most common term.
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:这是我听到过的最常用于描述那种经历的术语。但那就是他们所经历的。因为当我们的战士正花费大量的时间准备战争，我们却最近才意识到，他们中的许多也需要被训练如何回归平民生活。
en:It&#39;s the most common termI&#39;ve heard to describe that experience.And that&#39;s exactly what that is.Because while our warriorsspend countless hours training for war,we&#39;ve only recently come to understandthat many require trainingon how to return to civilian life.
时间： 3:50
zh-cn:就像任何训练一样，最佳的PTSD治疗方案也需要被反复进行。在军队中，我们不会简单地递给新兵Mark-19自动榴弹枪，然后说：“这里是扳机，还有一些弹药，祝你好运。”不。我们训练他们，在场地中，在不同的环境下，一遍又一遍的，直到举起武器瞄准目标的行为，根深蒂固的刻在肌肉记忆当中；直到即使在你们能想象的最紧张的时刻，这一系列行为也能够不经思考的被正确执行。
en:Now, like any training, the bestPTSD treatments require repetition.In the military,we don&#39;t simply hand traineesMark-19 automatic grenade launchersand say, &quot;Here&#39;s the trigger,here&#39;s some ammo and good luck.&quot;No. We train them, on the rangeand in specific contexts,over and over and overuntil lifting their weaponand engaging their targetis so engrained into muscle memorythat it can be performedwithout even thinking,even under the most stressfulconditions you can imagine.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:以训练为基础的治疗也是一样的道理。治疗的第一步是认知疗法，这是一种心理的重新校准。当退伍军人从战争回家时，他们对世界的认知是被校对过的，以适应那种极度危险的战争环境。所以当你试图将这种认知嫁接于和平环境之上时，就会出现问题。你就会沉浸在对那些本不存在的危险的忧虑当中。你开始不信任家人和朋友。不是说平民生活中就没有危险；危险是存在的。只是说遇到危险的几率，相比战争中而言，是极低的。
en:Now, the same holdsfor training-based treatments.The first of these treatmentsis cognitive therapy,and this is a kindof mental recalibration.When veterans come home from war,their way of mentally framingthe world is calibratedto an immenselymore dangerous environment.So when you try to overlay that mind frameonto a peacetime environment,you get problems.You begin drowning in worriesabout dangers that aren&#39;t present.You begin not trusting family or friends.Which is not to say there are nodangers in civilian life; there are.It&#39;s just that the probabilityof encountering themcompared to combatis astronomically lower.
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:所以我们从不建议退伍军人彻底关闭他们的警惕性。而是训练他们，去根据所处环境，调整他们的警惕程度。如果你在一个治安很差的社区，你就要开启警惕性。和家人一起在外吃饭呢？你就应该把它调节到很低。我们训练退伍军人，让他们变得绝对理性化，让他们能够系统化的衡量他们在和平时期的美国遭遇到比如，简易爆炸装置的可能性。通过足够的练习，那些被校正的认知就会留存。
en:So we never advise veteransto turn off caution completely.We do train them, however,to adjust cautionaccording to where they are.If you find yourselfin a bad neighborhood,you turn it up.Out to dinner with family?You turn it way down.We train veterans to be fiercely rational,to systematically gaugethe actual statistical probabilityof encountering, say, an IEDhere in peacetime America.With enough practice,those recalibrations stick.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:治疗的下一步是暴露疗法，就好像实地演习，也是所有被证明有效的疗法中见效最快的。
en:The next of these treatmentsis exposure therapy,and this is a kind of field training,and the fastest of the proveneffective treatments out there.
时间： 5:46
zh-cn:你们还记得卡洛斯吗？这就是他选择的治疗方案。我们从给他一些练习开始，对他来说，最具挑战性的是：去杂货店，去商场，餐厅，背对着门坐着。而且，最重要的是——要停留在这些环境当中。刚开始的时候，他表现得非常不安。他希望能够坐在一个可以扫视整个餐厅的位置，这样他就可以计划逃脱路线，这样他就可以随手拿取临时武器。他很想离开那儿，但是他没有。他想起了在海军陆战队的训练，他战胜了自己的不安情绪。每当他这样做时，焦虑感就会逐渐减少，然后再减少一点点，再减少一点儿，直到最后，他重新学会了如何坐在公共场所当中，仅仅是享受他自己的时光。
en:You remember Carlos?This was the treatment that he chose.And so we started offby giving him exercises,for him, challenging ones:going to a grocery store,going to a shopping mall,going to a restaurant,sitting with his back to the door.And, critically —staying in these environments.Now, at first he was very anxious.He wanted to sitwhere he could scan the room,where he could plan escape routes,where he could get his handson a makeshift weapon.And he wanted to leave, but he didn&#39;t.He remembered his trainingin the Marine Corps,and he pushed through his discomfort.And every time he did this,his anxiety ratcheted down a little bit,and then a little bit moreand then a little bit more,until in the end,he had effectively relearnedhow to sit in a public spaceand just enjoy himself.
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:他也会听他战时经历的录音，一遍又一遍的。他听这些录音，直到不再对其产生焦虑。他不断消化那些记忆，以至于不需要再在梦里回到那些记忆当中。当我在他治疗结束一年之后再与他交流时，他告诉我：“医生，这是我在43年当中第一次没有做噩梦。”
en:He also listened to recordingsof his combat experiences,over and over and over.He listened until those memoriesno longer generated any anxiety.He processed his memories so muchthat his brain no longer neededto return to those experiencesin his sleep.And when I spoke with hima year after treatment had finished,he told me,&quot;Doc, this is the first time in 43 yearsthat I haven&#39;t had nightmares.&quot;
时间： 7:12
zh-cn:然而，这并不是清除记忆的过程。退伍军人们会永远记得他们的创痛经历，但是通过足够量的训练，那些记忆将不再像以往那样鲜活，那样让人痛苦。他们情感上不再觉得那些经历依然历历在目，这是一个巨大的进步。
en:Now, this is differentthan erasing a memory.Veterans will always remembertheir traumatic experiences,but with enough practice,those memories are no longer as rawor as painful as they once were.They don&#39;t feel emotionallylike they just happened yesterday,and that is an immenselybetter place to be.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:但这常常也很困难。而且，就像是任何训练一样，它不一定适用于所有人。此外还存在着信任问题。有时，我会被问道：“如果你从没上过战场，医生，你要怎么帮我呢？“我很理解这种想法。但是考虑到回归平民生活，你们并不需要一个经历过战场的人。你们不需要训练战场上的行为；你们需要被训练如何回到家中。
en:But it&#39;s often difficult.And, like any training,it may not work for everybody.And there are trust issues.Sometimes I&#39;m asked,&quot;If you haven&#39;t been there, Doc,how can you help me?&quot;Which is understandable.But at the point of returningto civilian life,you do not requiresomebody who&#39;s been there.You don&#39;t require trainingfor operations on the battlefield;you require training on how to come home.
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:在我过去十年的工作经历当中，我已经接触过了你们能够想象到的最糟糕的，能具体到琐碎细节的日常情况。事情并不总是那么顺利。很多时候，我会感到疲惫，或者太过专注。但是这些基于训练的治疗方法效果出奇的好，无论我花费多少功夫，它都能给我带来更多回报，因为我看到了人们正在康复。我看到了人们的生活正在发生转变。
en:For the past 10 years of my work,I have been exposed to detailed accountsof the worst experiencesthat you can imagine,daily.And it hasn&#39;t always been easy.There have been timeswhere I have just felt my heart breakor that I&#39;ve absorbed too much.But these training-basedtreatments work so well,that whatever this work takes out of me,it puts back even more,because I see people get better.I see people&#39;s lives transform.
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:卡洛斯已经能和他的孙子孙女们出去玩了，曾经他甚至无法和他自己的孩子们一起这样做。最令我惊讶的，是在43年的折磨之后，仅仅花费了10周时间进行高强度训练，他就重获了自己的人生。当我和他交流的时候，他告诉我：“我知道我无法重获那些错过的岁月。但至少现在，无论在这世上我还剩下多少时间，我都可以在平静中度过。”他还说：“我希望那些年轻的退伍军人不再需要苦苦等候迟来的帮助。”那也是我所希望的。因为，人生是短暂的，如果你们有幸在战争当中或是各种创伤性经历中幸存下来，你们亏欠自己一个美好的人生。不该浪费时间去等待那些帮助你们实现美好人生的训练。
en:Carlos can now enjoy outingswith his grandchildren,which is something he couldn&#39;t even dowith his own children.And what&#39;s amazing to meis that after 43 years of suffering,it only took him 10 weeksof intense training to get his life back.And when I spoke with him, he told me,&quot;I know that I can&#39;t get those years back.But at least now, whatever daysthat I have left on this Earth,I can live them in peace.&quot;He also said, &quot;I hope that theseyounger veterans don&#39;t waitto get the help they need.&quot;And that&#39;s my hope, too.Because ...this life is short,and if you are fortunate enoughto have survived waror any kind of traumatic experience,you owe it to yourselfto live your life well.And you shouldn&#39;t waitto get the training you needto make that happen.
时间： 9:39
zh-cn:事实上，能够避免战后创伤的最佳方式，就是避免战争。但是我们这个物种还没有达到那样的境界。但在那之前，当我们把子女送去战场，给他们造成的精神折磨是可以被缓解的。但是我们必须要确保那些科学成果，能源供给，我们将他们送去战场时的价值观，至少是要能够体现我们准备让他们回到家中的。我们欠他们的，就是这么多。
en:Now, the best way of endinghuman suffering caused by waris to never go to war.But we are just not thereyet as a species.Until we are,the mental suffering that we createin our sons and in our daughterswhen we send them off to fightcan be alleviated.But we must ensure that the science,the energy level, the valuethat we place on sending them off to waris at the very least mirroredin how well we prepare themto come back home to us.This much, we owe them.
时间：10:21
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
