时间： 0:26
zh-cn:我现在的感受是所有其他的演讲者已经说了我想说的。（笑声）看来我唯一要做的事就是感谢所有人的善意。
en:Tyler Dewar: The way I feel right nowis that all of the other speakershave said exactly what I wanted to say.(Laughter)And it seems that the only thing left for me to sayis to thank you all for your kindness.
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:为了感谢各位的仁慈及善意。我想和你们分享关于我的一个小故事。
en:TD: But maybe in the spiritof appreciating the kindness of you all,I could share with youa little story about myself.
时间： 1:46
zh-cn:从很小的时候开始，我就被赋予了很多不同的责任，年轻时，我总这样认为，所有的事别人都已经替我决定好了。我所有的计划都有人安排好了。我需要穿的衣服都有人准备好了，我的行程也有人排定了，出席这些场合所要穿的珍贵庄严的法袍也有人准备好了，我很明白这是十分神圣和重要的事。
en:TD: From the time I was very young, onward,I was givena lot of different responsibilities,and it always seemed to me, when I was young,that everything was laid out before me.All of the plans for me were already made.I was given the clothes that I needed to wearand told where I needed to be,given these very preciousand holy looking robes to wear,with the understandingthat it was something sacred or important.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:在这种正式生活方式之前，我和家人住在西藏东部。当时我只有7岁，突然，一个搜寻队伍来到我家。他们在找下一世的大宝法王噶玛巴，我注意到他们在和我的父母谈话，之后他们告诉我这个消息，说我就是大宝法王卡玛巴。现在，人们常常问到，问我当时感觉如何。当他们突然把你带离家人，完全改变了你的生活，你觉得怎么样？我多半这样回答：那时，我觉得挺有趣的。我以为会很有趣，会有很多可以玩的东西。
en:TD: But before that kind of formal lifestyle happened for me,I was living in eastern Tibet with my family.And when I was seven years old,all of a sudden,a search party arrived at my home.They were looking the next Karmapa,and I noticed they were talking to my mom and dad,and the news came to me that they were telling methat I was the Karmapa.And these days, people ask me a lot,how did that feel.How did that feel when they came and whisked you away,and your lifestyle completely changed?And what I mostly say is that,at that time,it was a pretty interesting idea to me.I thought that things would be pretty funand there would be more things to play with.
时间： 3:48
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:52
zh-cn:但是事情却没有像我预期的，那么有趣好玩。我被安置在一个高度控制的环境下。而且立刻，很多不同的责任，像我该受的教育等等，排山倒海而来。我和我的家人分开了，包括我的父母。我没有很多朋友没人陪伴我，人们期望我执行这些传承下来的任务。所以，我满心幻想的作为大宝法王噶玛巴有趣的生活，是不会成真的了。这感觉更像是我被当成一尊雕像一样，我必须坐在那里就像雕像那样坐在那儿。
en:TD: But it didn&#39;t turn out to be so fun and entertaining,as I thought it would have been.I was placedin a pretty strictly controlled environment.And immediately,a lot of different responsibilities,in terms of my education and so forth, were heaped upon me.I was separated, largely, from my family,including my mother and father.I didn&#39;t have have many personal friendsto spend time with,but I was expected to performthese prescribed duties.So it turned out that my fantasyabout an entertaining life of being the Karmapawasn&#39;t going to come true.It more felt to be the case to methat I was being treated like a statue,and I was to sit in one placelike a statue would.
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:然而，我感觉，即使我同我爱的人们分开了—当然，现在离他们更远了，当我14岁的时候， 我逃离了西藏同时又更加远离了我的父母，我的亲戚，我的朋友和我的家乡。但是尽管如此，我的心里对这些人所感受到的爱，并没有因为距离而有所减少。我觉得和这些人以及我的家乡，我仍然感到强烈的爱的联系。
en:TD: Nevertheless, I felt that,even though I&#39;ve been separated from my loved ones —and, of course, now I&#39;m even further away.When I was 14, I escaped from Tibetand became even further removedfrom my mother and father,my relatives, my friendsand my homeland.But nevertheless,there&#39;s no real sense of separation from me in my heart,in terms of the love that I feelfor these people.I feel, still, a very strong connection of lovefor all of these peopleand for the land.
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:我仍然和我的父母保持联系，虽然不算频繁。我同我母亲久久才通一次电话聊天。我的经验告诉我，当我和她说话的时候，时间一分一秒过去但是在我们对话的同时，我们之间的爱却把我们连结的更紧密。
en:TD: And I still doget to keep in touch with my mother and father,albeit infrequently.I talk to my motheronce in a blue moon on the telephone.And my experience is that,when I&#39;m talking to her,with every second that passesduring our conversation,the feeling of love that binds usis bringing us closer and closer together.
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:这就是一些关于我的个人背景的简述。至于其他我想和你们分享的事，一些看法，我想这是很好的时机，这里有很多来自不同地方和不同背景的人齐聚一堂，交流想法同时互相建立友谊。我认为这象征着我们在这世界里所看到的，世界变得越来越小，而这个世界的所有人正在享受更多的交流机会。这真是十分美好的事，但是我们也要记住我们内心里应该有相同过程。随着外在的发展和增加的机会，那也应该有内在的发展加深我们内心的交流就如同外在的交流一样。这一周我们谈到和听到一些有关设计的事。我认为这很重要，我们应该要记得我们需要继续向前推进持续努力的追求心灵的设计。我们这周也听到了很多有关科技的演说，重要的是我们要记住把更多的能量投入到提升心灵的技巧发展上。
en:TD: So those were just a few remarksabout my personal background.And in terms of other things that I wanted to share with you,in terms of ideas,I think it&#39;s wonderful to have a situation like this,where so many people from different backgrounds and placescan come together,exchange their ideasand form relationships of friendship with each other.And I think that&#39;s symbolicof what we&#39;re seeing in the world in general,that the world is becoming smaller and smaller,and that all of the peoples in the worldare enjoying more opportunities for connection.That&#39;s wonderful,but we should also rememberthat we should have a similar process happening on the inside.Along with outward developmentand increase of opportunity,there should be inward developmentand deepening of our heart connectionsas well as our outward connections.So we spoke and we heard someabout design this week.I think that it&#39;s important for us to rememberthat we needto keep pushing forwardon the endeavorof the design of the heart.We heard a lot about technology this week,and it&#39;s important for us to rememberto invest a lot of our energyin improving the technology of the heart.
时间：10:43
zh-cn:对于世界上发生的伟大变革，某个程度而言我还算高兴，但是，我感到有一些不足，就是谈到我们所拥有的心和心，精神层面上的沟通的能力。我感到有些东西变成了障碍。
en:TD: So, even though I&#39;m somewhat happyabout the wonderful developments that are happening in the world,still, I feel a sense of impediment,when it comesto the ability that we haveto connect with each other on a heart-to-heart, or a mind-to-mind, level.I feel that there are some thingsthat are getting in the way.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:我各人对这个心对心，精神上沟通的概念，有一些有趣的体验，因为，作为一个精神领袖，我常试着对人敞开心门奉献自我真心诚意对待他人以建立心灵的连系，但是同时，经常有人建议我说我需要强调理智胜过于心灵的关联，因为，身居像我这样位置的人，如果不首要依靠理智，危险的事便有可能会发生。所以这是一件左右两难的事·。但是我有一次非常震撼的经验，一队阿富汗人来拜访我，我们有一场非常有趣的对谈。
en:TC: My relationshipto this concept of heart-to-heart connection, or mind-to-mind connection,is an interesting one,because, as a spiritual leader, I&#39;m always attemptingto open my heart to othersand offer myself upfor heart-to-heart and mind-to-mind connectionsin a genuine way with other people,but at the same time,I&#39;ve always been advisedthat I need to emphasize intelligenceover the heart-to-heart connections,because, being someone in a position like mine,if I don&#39;t rely primarily on intelligence,then something dangerous may happen to me.So it&#39;s an interesting paradox at play there.But I had a really striking experience once,when a group from Afghanistancame to visit me,and we had a really interesting conversation.
时间：14:06
zh-cn:我们谈论到巴米扬大佛，你们知道，很多年前阿富汗巴米扬大佛被破坏了。但是我们对话的基础是回教和佛教传统中对灵性不同的看法。当然，在回教，禁止偶像崇拜的概念，所以回教中找不到很多在佛教传统中可以找到的佛像或心灵解脱的象征物，当然，在佛教传统里，佛像很多而且是倍受尊重的。所以，我们讨论这两个传统之间的不同之处在许多人看来，巴米扬大佛被破坏是一件悲剧，但是我提出一个建议也许可以从正面的角度看待这件事。我们看到的巴米扬大佛的破坏是物质的破坏，坚固物质的崩裂和瓦解。或许可以把它看成想类似的事件：柏林围墙的瓦解，一度隔离两个社会的人们的高墙倒塌了，同时开通了一扇门让进一步的沟通开始。所以我认为，从这个角度，我们总是可以学到正面的事可以帮助我们更理解对方。
en:TD: So we ended up talking about the Bamiyan Buddhas,which, as you know,were destroyed some years ago in Afghanistan.But the basis of our conversationwas the different approach to spiritualityon the part of the Muslimand Buddhist traditions.Of course, in Muslim,because of the teachings around the concept of idolatry,you don&#39;t find as manyphysical representations of divinityor of spiritual liberationas you do in the Buddhist tradition,where, of course, there are many statues of the Buddhathat are highly revered.So, we were talking about the differencesbetween the traditionsand what many people perceivedas the tragedy of the destruction of the Bamiyan Buddhas,but I offered the suggestionthat perhaps we could look at this in a positive way.What we saw in the destruction of the Bamiyan Buddhaswas the depletion of matter,some solid substancefalling down and disintegrating.Maybe we could look at that to be more similarto the falling of the Berlin Wall,where a dividethat had kept two types of people aparthad collapsed and opened up a doorfor further communication.So I think that, in this way,it&#39;s always possible for usto derive something positivethat can help us understand one another better.
时间：16:16
zh-cn:所以，对于我们在这个研讨会里讨论了很多的进步发展，我真的觉得我们创造的进步不应该成为人类未来更沉重的负担，而该用于改进我们在这个世界上生活的基本形态。
en:TD: So, with regard to the developmentthat we&#39;ve been talking abouthere at this conference,I really feelthat the development that we makeshouldn&#39;t create a further burdenfor us as human beings,but should be usedto improveour fundamental lifestyleof how we live in the world.
时间：18:12
zh-cn:当然，印度在这块神圣土地上发展、成长、崛起我为印度这个伟大国家感到很高兴，但同时，我想，正如一些人所认知到的，我们需要了解，这个成长中所付出的代价是需要牺牲我们赖以安生立命的这块土地。正如我们在爬树，要爬到树上的话我们正在做的事事实上会对树根造成伤害。所以，我想追根究底不只是要拥有最新的信息，还要真的去了解它，同时转变我们的内在动机让它变得更诚挚，变得更正向。这一周里我们听到关于可怕的痛苦，例如，很多世界上的女性正每天经历的折磨。我们知道了这个信息，但是我们常常选择不去关注它。我们之所以选择不去注意，是因为不想心情受影响。所以我认为世界进步的方式—不仅是要外在发展和真实快乐的根源达到协调—还要让我们所拥有的信息真正改变我们的内心。
en:TD: Of course, I rejoicein the development and the growth and the riseof the noble land of India, the great country of India,but at the same time, I think,as some of us have acknowledged,we need to be awarethat some aspects of this riseare coming at the costof the very groundon which we stand.So, as we are climbing the tree,some of the things that we&#39;re doingin order to climb the treeare actually underminingthe tree&#39;s very root.And so,what I think it comes down tois a question of, not only having information of what&#39;s going on,but paying attention to thatand letting that shift our motivationto become more sincereand genuinely positive.We have hear, this week,about the horrible sufferings, for example,that so many women of the worldare enduring day-to-day.We have that information,but what often happens to usis that we don&#39;t really choose to pay attention to it.We don&#39;t really choose to allow thatto cause there to be a shift in our hearts.So I think the way forward for the world —one that will bring the path of outer developmentin harmonywith the real root of happiness —is that we allowthe information that we haveto really make a change in our heart.
时间：20:41
zh-cn:我认为真挚的动机对我们的美好未来，或人类深远的福址很重要，真挚的动机是全心投入你正在做的事情之中。不论你现在正在做什么利益世界的事，全心沉浸其中，好好品味它。
en:TD: So I think that sincere motivationis very important for our future well-being,or deep sense of well-being as humans,and I think that means sinking into whatever it is you&#39;re doing now.Whatever work you&#39;re trying to do now to benefit the world,sink into that,get a full taste of that.
时间：21:36
zh-cn:我们这周已经在这儿，我们已经一起呼吸了百万次，或许我们还没有看到任何改变发生在我们的生命里，但是我们经常忽略最细微的变化。而且我想有时我们描绘出我们认为的关于幸福的美好愿景，但是，如果注意体会，我们会发现，在每一个呼吸之间，也都有小小的幸福。
en:TD: So, since we&#39;ve been here this week,we&#39;ve taken millions of breaths, collectively,and perhaps we haven&#39;t witnessedany course changeshappening in our lives,but we often miss the very subtle changes.And I thinkthat sometimes we developgrand conceptsof what happinessmight look like for us,but that, if we pay attention,we can see that there are little symbols of happinessin every breath that we take.
时间：23:17
zh-cn:每一个来到这里的人都很有才华，你们可以贡献给这个世界很多很多，在结束演说以前，我想花一些时间来感激这个因缘，很幸运我们能齐聚一堂交换意见，同时在心里创造强大的灵感和能量，从而将研讨会中产生的好的结果、动力、正面想法，散播出去；在世界的所有角落，种下善因。
en:TD: So, every one of you who has come hereis so talented,and you have so much to offer to the world,I think it would be a good note to conclude on thento just take a momentto appreciate how fortunate we areto have come together in this way and exchanged ideasand really form a strong aspirationand energy within ourselvesthat we will take the goodthat has come from this conference,the momentum, the positivity,and we will spread that and plant itin all of the corners of the world.
时间：24:14
zh-cn:大宝法王噶玛巴：我的演讲就在明天。
en:His Holiness the Karmapa: Tomorrow is my Talk.
时间：24:28
zh-cn:拉克西米非常努力的工作，邀请我来，她完成了很多的准备，让这次演讲成为现实，有时候我心里有些抗拒，而且这一周我也一直很紧张。我感到身体不适，头晕等等，人们问我怎么了。我告诉他们呢，&quot;这是因为我明天要演讲。”拉克西米一直很包容容忍我，我很感激，她给我这个机会可以来到这里。非常感谢各位，谢谢。
en:TD: Lakshmi has worked incredibly hard,even in inviting me,let alone everything else that she has doneto make this happen,and I was somewhat resistant at times,and I was also very nervous throughout this week.I was feeling under the weather and dizzy and so forth,and people would ask me, why.I would tell them, &quot;It&#39;s because I have to talk tomorrow.&quot;And so Lakshmi had to put up with me through all of that,but I very much appreciatethe opportunity she&#39;s given meto be here.And to you, everyone, thank you very much.
时间：25:05
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：25:08
zh-cn:大宝法王噶玛巴：非常感谢大家。
en:HH: Thank you very much.
时间：25:10
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
