时间： 0:11
zh-cn:以下我将从伊斯兰教的角度来谈论慈悯，可能我的信仰不足以被他人认为是以慈悯为本。可能我的信仰不足以被他人认为是以慈悯为本。但是事实却相反。
en:I&#39;m speaking about compassion from an Islamic point of view,and perhaps my faith is not very well thought ofas being one that is grounded in compassion.The truth of the matter is otherwise.
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:我们神圣的《古兰经》共有114章，每一章都以泰斯米为开端，写道：奉真主，至仁主，永仁主之名。或者，正如理查德·伯顿先生所言，我说的不是那位娶了伊丽莎白泰勒的理查德·伯顿先生，而是那位生活在上世纪，周游世界的旅行家，他也曾翻译了诸多文学著作，而是那位生活在上世纪，周游世界的旅行家，他也曾翻译了诸多文学著作，而是那位生活在上世纪，周游世界的旅行家，他也曾翻译了诸多文学著作，他的话翻译过来即是“奉普慈特慈真主之名。”(&quot;in the name of God, the compassionating, the compassionate.&quot;)
en:Our holy book, the Koran, consists of 114 chapters,and each chapter begins with what we call the basmala,the saying of &quot;In the name of God, the all compassionate, the all merciful,&quot;or, as Sir Richard Burton —not the Richard Burton who was married to Elizabeth Taylor,but the Sir Richard Burton who lived a century before thatand who was a worldwide travelerand translator of many works of literature —translates it. &quot;In the name of God, the compassionating, the compassionate.&quot;
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:《古兰经》对于穆斯林来说是真主对人类的箴言，其中有句名言，真主对他的先知穆罕默德说，我们相信穆罕默德是最后一位先知，之前有亚当，包括诺亚，包括摩斯，包括亚伯拉罕，包括耶稣基督，到穆罕默德为止。之前有亚当，包括诺亚，包括摩斯，包括亚伯拉罕，包括耶稣基督，到穆罕默德为止。真主说，“我遣你为使，穆罕默德，只为怜悯全世界的人。”Al-Quran(21:107)真主说，“我遣你为使，穆罕默德，只为怜悯全世界的人。”Al-Quran(21:107)
en:And in a saying of the Koran, which to Muslims is God speaking to humanity,God says to his prophet Muhammad —whom we believe to be the last of a series of prophets,beginning with Adam, including Noah, including Moses, including Abraham,including Jesus Christ, and ending with Muhammad —that, &quot;We have not sent you, O Muhammad,except as a &#39;rahmah,&#39; except as a source of compassion to humanity.&quot;
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:对于我们人类，特别是对于我们穆斯林来说，我们的使命，我们的目标，就是追随先知之路，效法先知为榜样，这位先知曾在他的启示中说过，&quot;以真主的德性规范你自己。&quot;真主曾说，慈悯是他的首要德性，事实上，《古兰经》也写到，“真主曾以慈悯为自己的责任。” 或者说是，“真主已规定以慈悯为己任。”Al-Quran(6:12)事实上，《古兰经》也写到，“真主曾以慈悯为自己的责任。” 或者说是，“真主已规定以慈悯为己任。”Al-Quran(6:12)因此，我们的目标，我们的使命必将是以慈悯为本，激发慈悯，演绎慈悯，讲述慈悯，行持慈悯。
en:For us human beings, and certainly for us as Muslims,whose mission, and whose purpose in following the path of the prophetis to make ourselves as much like the prophet.And the prophet, in one of his sayings, said,&quot;Adorn yourselves with the attributes of God.&quot;And because God Himself said that the primary attribute of his is compassion —in fact, the Koran says that &quot;God decreed upon himself compassion,&quot;or, &quot;reigned himself in by compassion&quot; —therefore, our objective and our mission must be to be sources of compassion,activators of compassion, actors of compassionand speakers of compassion and doers of compassion.
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:那都是好的，但我们究竟出了什么问题，这世界上为什么会缺乏慈悯呢？为了解答这个问题，我们就要追溯我们的精神之路。每一个宗教的传统中都存在着我们所谓的外在之路和内在之路，或者称为易于理解之路和不易理解之路。大家比较熟知的，关于伊斯兰教中不易理解之路是指苏非主义，阿拉伯语称为tasawwuf。这些导师或者大师们，这些苏非派传统的精神导师们，遵循我们先知的教义和典范，教诲我们问题的根源在哪里。
en:That is all well and good,but where do we go wrong,and what is the source of the lack of compassion in the world?For the answer to this, we turn to our spiritual path.In every religious tradition, there is the outer path and the inner path,or the exoteric path and the esoteric path.The esoteric path of Islam is more popularly known as Sufism, or &quot;tasawwuf&quot; in Arabic.And these doctors or these masters,these spiritual masters of the Sufi tradition,refer to teachings and examples of our prophetthat teach us where the source of our problems lies.
时间： 3:15
zh-cn:在一次先知发动的战斗中，先知告诉他的跟随者们，“我们正在从次要的战争回归到更重要的战争，更大的战斗。”先知告诉他的跟随者们，“我们正在从次要的战争回归到更重要的战争，更大的战斗。”
en:In one of the battles that the prophet waged,he told his followers, &quot;We are returning from the lesser warto the greater war, to the greater battle.&quot;
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:跟随者们问到，“真主的使者啊，我们都厌倦了战争。我们又如何要开始一个更大的战争呢？“
en:And they said, &quot;Messenger of God, we are battle-weary.How can we go to a greater battle?&quot;
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:先知说，“那是对自我的战争，消除心中自我的战争。”人类问题的根源是与自我为中心，与自我息息相关的。
en:He said, &quot;That is the battle of the self, the battle of the ego.&quot;The sources of human problems have to do with egotism, &quot;I.&quot;
时间： 3:53
zh-cn:我们非常熟知的，著名的苏非派大师鲁米，讲述过一个故事，一个人走到他朋友的房前，他敲门，一个声音问他，“谁在哪儿？”
en:The famous Sufi master Rumi, who is very well known to most of you,has a story in which he talks of a man who goes to the house of a friend,and he knocks on the door,and a voice answers, &quot;Who&#39;s there?&quot;
时间： 4:11
zh-cn:“It is me 是我”，英文语法上正确的讲法是，“it is I，”“It is me 是我”，英文语法上正确的讲法是，“it is I，”
en:&quot;It&#39;s me,&quot; or, more grammatically correctly, &quot;It is I,&quot;as we might say in English.
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:那个声音说到，“走开。”
en:The voice says, &quot;Go away.&quot;
时间： 4:21
zh-cn:经过多年的修炼，持戒，探寻和努力，这个人又回来了，以更谦卑的态度，他再一次敲响了朋友的那扇门
en:After many years of training, of disciplining, of search and struggle,he comes back.With much greater humility, he knocks again on the door.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:那个声音问到，“谁在那儿？”
en:The voice asks, &quot;Who is there?&quot;
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:他回答到，“是你，开启心灵的人。”
en:He said, &quot;It is you, O heartbreaker.&quot;
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:大门开了，那个声音说到，“请进，因为这个房间里没有足够的空间可以容下两个I(我)，两个大写的I(我)，我不是指眼睛的那个eye，是指两个自我。
en:The door swings open, and the voice says,&quot;Come in, for there is no room in this house for two I&#39;s,&quot;— two capital I&#39;s, not these eyes — &quot;for two egos.&quot;
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:鲁米的故事是对精神道路的比喻。在真主面前，除了神性的我之外，没有更多的空间给其他的我。在真主面前，除了神性的我之外，没有更多的空间给其他的我。在一部教义里，被我们的传统称为库德西圣训(hadith qudsi)，真主说到，“我的仆人，”或者“我的创造物，我的人类，不会有比听我的话而接近我的方式更可贵的了。”不会有比听我的话而接近我的方式更可贵的了。”在座的雇主们会完全理解我的意思。你想让你的员工按你的差遣办事，如果他们完成了，那么他们能做更多的事情，但是，别忽视你要求他们去做的事情。
en:And Rumi&#39;s stories are metaphors for the spiritual path.In the presence of God, there is no room for more than one &quot;I,&quot;and that is the &quot;I&quot; of divinity.In a teaching — called a &quot;hadith qudsi&quot; in our tradition —God says that, &quot;My servant,&quot; or &quot;My creature, my human creature,does not approach me by anything that is dearer to methan what I have asked them to do.&quot;And those of you who are employers know exactly what I mean.You want your employees to do what you ask them to do,and if they&#39;ve done that, then they can do extra.But don&#39;t ignore what you&#39;ve asked them to do.
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:真主说到，“我的仆人通过做更多我要求他们做的事情而更亲近于我”真主说到，“我的仆人通过做更多我要求他们做的事情而更亲近于我”我们可以称此为额外加分，“直到我爱上他或她。当我爱上我的仆人，“真主说，”我能成为他／她的眼去观看，成为他／她的耳去倾听，成为他／她的手去拿取，成为他／她的脚去行走，成为他／她的心去感悟。”这个自我与神性的结合是我们精神之路的启示和目的，也是我们信仰传统的全部。
en:&quot;And,&quot; God says, &quot;my servant continues to get nearer to me,by doing more of what I&#39;ve asked them to do&quot; —extra credit, we might call it —&quot;until I love him or love her.And when I love my servant,&quot; God says,&quot;I become the eyes by which he or she sees,the ears by which he or she listens,the hand by which he or she grasps,and the foot by which he or she walks,and the heart by which he or she understands.&quot;It is this merging of our self with divinitythat is the lesson and purpose of our spiritual path and all of our faith traditions.
时间： 6:46
zh-cn:穆斯林认为耶稣是苏非派的大师，最伟大的先知，和强调精神之路的使者。当耶稣说到，“我是精神，我是道路，”当先知穆罕默德说到，“见我者即见真主，”那是因为他们是真主的工具，他们成为真主的一部分，所以真主的意愿是通过他们而体现不是通过他们自己和他们的自我而显现的。慈悯是与生俱来的，它就存在于我们自身。我们所要做的是去除我们心中的自我，去除我们的自我主义。
en:Muslims regard Jesus as the master of Sufism,the greatest prophet and messenger who came to emphasize the spiritual path.When he says, &quot;I am the spirit, and I am the way,&quot;and when the prophet Muhammad said, &quot;Whoever has seen me has seen God,&quot;it is because they became so much an instrument of God,they became part of God&#39;s team —so that God&#39;s will was manifest through them,and they were not acting from their own selves and their own egos.Compassion on earth is given, it is in us.All we have to do is to get our egos out of the way,get our egotism out of the way.
时间： 7:38
zh-cn:我确信，可能在座的你们，或者你们中的大部分人，曾经有过一段所谓的精神体验，在你生命中的某一时刻，几秒钟，也可以是几分钟，你们的自我意识消失了。在那一刻，你会感觉与宇宙同在，与那壶水同在，与每一个人同在，与造物主同在，你会感觉自己置身于力量，敬畏，和深切的爱之中，在你的生命中，你体会过最深切的慈悯和仁爱。和深切的爱之中，在你的生命中，你体会过最深切的慈悯和仁爱。
en:I&#39;m sure, probably all of you here, or certainly the very vast majority of you,have had what you might call a spiritual experience,a moment in your lives when, for a few seconds, a minute perhaps,the boundaries of your ego dissolved.And at that minute, you felt at one with the universe —one with that jug of water, one with every human being,one with the Creator —and you felt you were in the presence of power, of awe,of the deepest love, the deepest sense of compassion and mercythat you have ever experienced in your lives.
时间： 8:33
zh-cn:那一刻是真主的恩赐，他提升了我们的意识令我们不再执着于我，我，我，取而代之的，正如鲁米讲的故事中的那个人，我们说，“噢，这是全部的你。”这是全部的你。这是全部的我们。我们，我，我们都是你的一部分。所有的创造者，所有的事物，我们人类的本源，以及我们人生的终点。你也是我们心灵的开启者。你是那一个我们都所要面对的，是我们生活的理由，是我们死亡的理由，是我们复活的理由，向真主证明我们已经是拥有慈悯的人。
en:That is a moment which is a gift of God to us —a gift when, for a moment, he lifts that boundarywhich makes us insist on &quot;I, I, I, me, me, me,&quot;and instead, like the person in Rumi&#39;s story,we say, &quot;Oh, this is all you.This is all you. And this is all us.And us, and I, and us are all part of you.O, Creator! O, the Objective! The source of our beingand the end of our journey,you are also the breaker of our hearts.You are the one whom we should all be towards, for whose purpose we live,and for whose purpose we shall die,and for whose purpose we shall be resurrected againto account to God to what extent we have been compassionate beings.&quot;
时间： 9:41
zh-cn:我们今天的传达的信息，今天的目标，还有今天你们来到这里，以及这个有关慈悯的探讨会，就是提醒。因为《古兰经》经常敦促我们谨记，互相提醒，因为真理的知识是人人共有的。
en:Our message today, and our purpose today,and those of you who are here today,and the purpose of this charter of compassion, is to remind.For the Koran always urges us to remember, to remind each other,because the knowledge of truth is within every human being.
时间：10:09
zh-cn:我们全都知道。我们全都可以获得。荣格称此为潜意识。通过我们的潜意识，在你们的梦里，《古兰经》称我们的睡眠阶段为浅层的死亡，暂时死亡。处于我们的睡眠状态时，我们会有梦境，我们会有幻觉，我们甚至可以超越我们的躯体去旅行，对于大多数的我们来说，我们会看见奇妙的事物。我们可以超越我们所熟知的空间界限去旅行，我们可以超越我们所熟知的时间界限去旅行，但是所有这些对于我们来说就是歌颂造物者尊名为：至仁主，永仁主。
en:We know it all.We have access to it all.Jung may have called it &quot;the subconscious.&quot;Through our subconscious, in your dreams —the Koran calls our state of sleep &quot;the lesser death,&quot;&quot;the temporary death&quot; —in our state of sleep we have dreams, we have visions,we travel even outside of our bodies, for many of us,and we see wonderful things.We travel beyond the limitations of space as we know it,and beyond the limitations of time as we know it.But all this is for us to glorify the name of the creatorwhose primary name is the compassionating, the compassionate.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:真主，Bokh，不论你们如何称呼他，Allah也好，Ram也好, 还是Om，无论你们如何去命名他无乱你如何去感受神性，都是绝对存在的根本，绝对的爱、仁心和慈悯，也是绝对的知识和智慧，那就是印度教所指的超凡脱俗(satchidananda)。语言不同，但所指事物是相同的。
en:God, Bokh, whatever name you want to call him with, Allah, Ram, Om,whatever the name might be through which you nameor access the presence of divinity,it is the locus of absolute being,absolute love and mercy and compassion,and absolute knowledge and wisdom,what Hindus call &quot;satchidananda.&quot;The language differs,but the objective is the same.
时间：11:50
zh-cn:鲁米有另一个故事关于三个人，一个土耳其人，一个阿拉伯人，我忘记了第三个人，但是我猜应该是马来人。一个人要angour，一个英国人说，一个要eneb，一个要葡萄，他们最终吵了起来，因为我要葡萄，我要eneb，我要angour，他们不知道他们使用的词其实是共指一个东西，不过是用了不同的语言而已。
en:Rumi has another storyabout three men, a Turk, an Arab and —and I forget the third person, but for my sake, it could be a Malay.One is asking for angur — one is, say, an Englishman —one is asking for eneb, and one is asking for grapes.And they have a fight and an argument because— &quot;I want grapes.&quot; &quot;I want eneb. &quot;I want angur.&quot; —not knowing that the word that they&#39;re usingrefers to the same reality in different languages.
时间：12:20
zh-cn:从定义上讲只有一个绝对的事实，从定义上讲只有一个绝对体，因为这个绝对，定义上是单一的，绝对的，独一无二的。事物的绝对重点只有一个意识的绝对重点，觉知，慈悯和爱的绝对根本就是神性的根本。
en:There&#39;s only one absolute reality by definition,one absolute being by definition,because absolute is, by definition, single,and absolute and singular.There&#39;s this absolute concentration of being,the absolute concentration of consciousness,awareness, an absolute locus of compassion and lovethat defines the primary attributes of divinity.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:那也就是身而为人的根本。至于人性的定义，生理学的角度来说，是我们的生理机能，但是真主是以我们的灵性，我们的本性，来定义人性的。
en:And these should also bethe primary attributes of what it means to be human.For what defines humanity, perhaps biologically,is our physiology,but God defines humanity by our spirituality, by our nature.
时间：13:20
zh-cn:《古兰经》提到，真主对天使说，“当我把亚当从泥土塑造成人形，把我的精神传输于他，然后向他俯拜。”天使们俯拜他，不是俯拜他人类的躯体，而是俯拜他人类的灵魂。为什么？因为，灵魂，人类的灵魂，拥有神性的灵气，拥有神性的灵魂。
en:And the Koran says, He speaks to the angels and says,&quot;When I have finished the formation of Adam from clay,and breathed into him of my spirit,then, fall in prostration to him.&quot;The angels prostrate, not before the human body,but before the human soul.Why? Because the soul, the human soul,embodies a piece of the divine breath,a piece of the divine soul.
时间：14:00
zh-cn:圣经中也有类似的记载说我们是按圣像来塑造的。真主的圣像是什么？真主的圣像是绝对存在，绝对觉知，绝对知识和智慧是绝对慈悯和爱。
en:This is also expressed in biblical vocabularywhen we are taught that we were created in the divine image.What is the imagery of God?The imagery of God is absolute being,absolute awareness and knowledge and wisdomand absolute compassion and love.
时间：14:23
zh-cn:所以，对于身为人类的我们来说，在最伟大的感知层面认识何为人类，在最愉悦的感知层面认识何为人类，就是意味着我们必须成为管理内在的神性灵气称职的管家，就是意味着我们必须成为管理内在的神性灵气称职的管家，不断追求完善升华人性的根源，完善升华生存的根源，生命的根源，完善升华智慧，意识和觉知的根源，完善升华慈悯的本性和仁爱的根源。
en:And therefore, for us to be human —in the greatest sense of what it means to be human,in the most joyful sense of what it means to be human —means that we too have to be proper stewardsof the breath of divinity within us,and seek to perfect within ourselves the attribute of being,of being alive, of beingness;the attribute of wisdom, of consciousness, of awareness;and the attribute of being compassionate and loving beings.
时间：15:02
zh-cn:这就是我对我的信仰传统的理解，这也是我从学习其他信仰传统的理解，而这是我们必须秉持的共同立场，当我们共同秉持这个立场时，我确信我们令世界更加美好。
en:This is what I understand from my faith tradition,and this is what I understand from my studies of other faith traditions,and this is the common platform on which we must all stand,and when we stand on this platform as such,I am convinced that we can make a wonderful world.
时间：15:30
zh-cn:我个人也相信，我们处在一个边缘，有你们这样的人的存在和帮助，我们就可以实现以塞亚的预言。他曾在预言中提到有朝一日人们将铸剑为犁而且不会再学习战争，也不再会有战争。
en:And I believe, personally, that we&#39;re on the vergeand that, with the presence and help of people like you here,we can bring about the prophecy of Isaiah.For he foretold of a periodwhen people shall transform their swords into plowsharesand will not learn war or make war anymore.
时间：16:03
zh-cn:我们已经处于人类历史的一个关口，我们已别无选择。我们必须放低我们的心中自我，控制我们的“心中自我”，不论是个体的自我，还是个人的自我，家庭的自我，还是国家的自我，让一切归于真主的荣耀。
en:We have reached a stage in human history that we have no option:we must, we must lower our egos,control our egos — whether it is individual ego, personal ego,family ego, national ego —and let all be for the glorification of the one.
时间：16:34
zh-cn:谢谢你们，真主保佑你们。鼓掌
en:Thank you, and God bless you.(Applause)
