时间： 0:11
zh-cn:人们在看到别人的那一刻起就把对方装进了不同的盒子——他（她）危险么？有吸引力么？有可能交往么？有扩充人脉的可能么？我们在遇见他人的时候都会这样在脑海中为他（她）建立一个档案。你叫什么名字？来自哪里？多大了？做什么的？然后是更私人的问题。得过什么病么？离过婚么？跟我说话的时候有口臭么？你喜欢什么？你喜欢什么人？你喜欢同性还是异性？
en:Human beings start putting each other into boxesthe second that they see each other —Is that person dangerous? Are they attractive?Are they a potential mate? Are they a potential networking opportunity?We do this little interrogation when we meet peopleto make a mental resume for them.What&#39;s your name? Where are you from?How old are you? What do you do?Then we get more personal with it.Have you ever had any diseases?Have you ever been divorced?Does your breath smell bad while you&#39;re answering my interrogation right now?What are you into? Who are you into?What gender do you like to sleep with?
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:我明白了。我们的神经系统就已经决定了我们会寻找跟我们自身相似的人。从我们刚知道被人认可的感觉时就开始建立自己的小团体。任何可能的特征都可以把我们联系起来——音乐喜好、种族、性别、成长的地方。我们在寻找那种强化我们个人选择的环境。虽然，仅仅是“你是做什么的”这个问题就让你觉得别人打开了一个小盒子要求你把自己塞进去。因为这种放进盒子中的分类，太局限了，盒子太狭隘了，因此这真的很危险。
en:I get it.We are neurologically hardwiredto seek out people like ourselves.We start forming cliques as soon as we&#39;re old enoughto know what acceptance feels like.We bond together based on anything that we can —music preference, race, gender, the block that we grew up on.We seek out environments that reinforce our personal choices.Sometimes, though, just the question &quot;what do you do?&quot;can feel like somebody&#39;s opening a tiny little boxand asking you to squeeze yourself inside of it.Because the categories, I&#39;ve found, are too limiting.The boxes are too narrow.And this can get really dangerous.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:所以现在在我们更深入的讨论之前，我要说说我自己。我在一个受庇护的环境中长大。我一九八零年代生长在曼哈顿市区，距离朋克音乐中心只有两个街区的距离。我没有感受到偏见以及在虔诚宗教环境下成长带来的社会约束，所带来的痛苦。我长大的地方，如果你不是伪娘、激进分子、或某种行为艺术家，你就是个怪胎。（观众笑）我的成长过程有点叛逆、非传统类型的，但是作为纽约街头的小孩，你要学会相信自己的直觉，跟随自己的想法。
en:So here&#39;s a disclaimer about me, though,before we get too deep into this.I grew up in a very sheltered environment.I was raised in downtown Manhattan in the early 1980s,two blocks from the epicenter of punk music.I was shielded from the pains of bigotryand the social restrictions of a religiously-based upbringing.Where I come from, if you weren&#39;t a drag queen or a radical thinkeror a performance artist of some kind,you were the weirdo.(Laughter)It was an unorthodox upbringing,but as a kid on the streets of New York,you learn how to trust your own instincts,you learn how to go with your own ideas.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:在我六岁的时候，我决定要做一个小伙子。有一天我在学校想打篮球但是别的孩子不跟我玩。他们说不跟女孩子玩。于是我回到家，剪掉了头发，第二天回到那里对他们说，“我是男孩”。我是说，谁看得出来呢，对吧？当你六岁的时候你也能这么做。我不希望任何人知道我是女孩，我也做到了。我这么伪装了8年。
en:So when I was six, I decided that I wanted to be a boy.I went to school one day and the kids wouldn&#39;t let me play basketball with them.They said they wouldn&#39;t let girls play.So I went home, and I shaved my head,and I came back the next day and I said, &quot;I&#39;m a boy.&quot;I mean, who knows, right?When you&#39;re six, maybe you can do that.I didn&#39;t want anyone to know that I was a girl, and they didn&#39;t.I kept up the charade for eight years.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:这张照片是我11岁时候照的。我在电影《Julian Po》中扮演一个叫沃特的小孩。他是个街头小混混，成天跟在克里斯琴·斯内特左右，缠着他。瞧，我是一个童星，但是实际上我在两个层面上掩饰了我的身份，因为没有人知道我在女扮男装。事实上没有人知道我是女孩——学校的老师、我朋友和跟我一起拍戏的导演都不知道。在教室里小伙伴们时常会掐着我的脖子看有没有喉结，或抓我的档部看看我是男是女。当我上厕所的时候我把鞋子反过来穿着，这样看起来像是在站着小便。在外过夜的时候，我时常纠结于如何在不暴露自己的前提下把这个事件告诉那些不想亲吻我的女孩。
en:So this is me when I was 11.I was playing a kid named Walterin a movie called &quot;Julian Po.&quot;I was a little street tough that followed Christian Slater around and badgered him.See, I was also a child actor,which doubled up the layers of the performance of my identity,because no one knew that I was actually a girl really playing a boy.In fact, no one in my life knew that I was a girl —not my teachers at school, not my friends,not the directors that I worked with.Kids would often come up to me in classand grab me by the throat to check for an Adam&#39;s appleor grab my crotch to check what I was working with.When I would go to the bathroom, I would turn my shoes around in the stallsso that it looked like I was peeing standing up.At sleepovers I would have panic attackstrying to break it to girls that they didn&#39;t want to kiss mewithout outing myself.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:我需要澄清一下我不讨厌我的身体或性别。我没觉得我投错了胎。我只是觉得这是一场精心的演出。我不会真的去变性我的家人他们或许会认为我的性别趋向畸形，或许给我注射激素以避免“青春期的困扰”。但是我并没有被归为变性者。在我这个特殊的案例中，我在14岁的时候突然的觉醒了，决定重新做回姑娘。青春期的困扰来了，我不知道这个决定意味着什么，但是我想找到真正的自我。
en:It&#39;s worth mentioning thoughthat I didn&#39;t hate my body or my genitalia.I didn&#39;t feel like I was in the wrong body.I felt like I was performing this elaborate act.I wouldn&#39;t have qualified as transgender.If my family, though, had been the kind of people to believe in therapy,they probably would have diagnosed meas something like gender dysmorphicand put me on hormones to stave off puberty.But in my particular case,I just woke up one day when I was 14,and I decided that I wanted to be a girl again.Puberty had hit, and I had no idea what being a girl meant,and I was ready to figure out who I actually was.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:像我这样（女扮男装）的孩子，其实用不着宣布出柜的，对吧没有人觉得意外。（观众笑）但是我的父母并没有要求我给自己归类。在我15岁的时候，我给爸爸打电话告诉他我恋爱了这是我们最后一次讨论喜欢上一个女孩子可能带来的后果。三年后当我爱上一个男人时，我的父母眼皮都没眨一下。瞧，在我离经叛道的童年经历中最大的幸运，就是我从来没有被要求把自己归为某个确定的类别。我能够自由的做自己，成长，并随时改变自己。
en:When a kid behaves like I did,they don&#39;t exactly have to come out, right?No one is exactly shocked.(Laughter)But I wasn&#39;t asked to define myself by my parents.When I was 15, and I called my fatherto tell him that I had fallen in love,it was the last thing on either of our mindsto discuss what the consequences wereof the fact that my first love was a girl.Three years later, when I fell in love with a man,neither of my parents batted an eyelash either.See, it&#39;s one of the great blessings of my very unorthodox childhoodthat I wasn&#39;t ever asked to define myselfas any one thing at any point.I was just allowed to be me, growing and changing in every moment.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:所以大概四五年前，关于同性恋婚姻合法化第八号提案在美国引起了巨大的关注。那个时候我还没有花太多时间考虑结婚的问题。但是让我震惊的是，有着那样不堪的人权历史的美国，竟然又一次公然的重复自己的错误。我还记得在电视上看到人们的辩论时，觉得多么的好玩：宗教之间和州之间的差异使得国家被划出一条地理上的界限，这边的人们持赞成观点，那边的人持反对态度。然后我发现这些讨论使得我也需要进行站队。
en:So four, almost five years ago,Proposition 8, the great marriage equality debate,was raising a lot of dust around this country.And at the time, getting married wasn&#39;t really somethingI spent a lot of time thinking about.But I was struck by the fact that America,a country with such a tarnished civil rights record,could be repeating its mistakes so blatantly.And I remember watching the discussion on televisionand thinking how interesting it wasthat the separation of church and statewas essentially drawing geographical boundaries throughout this country,between places where people believed in itand places where people didn&#39;t.And then, that this discussion was drawing geographical boundaries around me.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:如果这是两方相互对立的战争，我应该归为同性恋这一边，因为我显然不是百分之百“直”的（异性恋）。那个时候我刚刚跌跌撞撞的从八年的自我认同危机中走出来，从一个男孩，从一个穿着女孩子衣服但是像男孩子的女孩子，到一个超级性感、过度补偿的、超有女人味的男孩子梦寐以求的女孩子，到现在最终发现了真实的自己，一个男孩子气的女孩，喜欢某些男孩也喜欢某些女孩。
en:If this was a war with two disparate sides,I, by default, fell on team gay,because I certainly wasn&#39;t 100 percent straight.At the time I was just beginning to emergefrom this eight-year personal identity crisis zigzagthat saw me go from being a boyto being this awkward girl that looked like a boy in girl&#39;s clothesto the opposite extreme of this super skimpy,over-compensating, boy-chasing girly-girlto finally just a hesitant exploration of what I actually was,a tomboyish girlwho liked both boys and girls depending on the person.
时间： 5:46
zh-cn:我曾花了一年的时间拍摄像我一样的新一代的女性，觉得自己处在两个极端之间的女孩子——穿着蕾丝内衣玩滑板的女孩，剪男士短发但是涂指甲的女孩，涂跟膝盖瘀伤颜色一致的眼影的女孩，喜欢女孩也喜欢男孩的女孩，讨厌被放进任何盒子里的女孩。我爱她们，我赞赏她们的自由，但是我看到在我们的乌托邦之外的世界，愤怒的辩论在这个国家的电视台上演，专家们开始把我们的爱比喻成禽兽不如的行径。这让我强烈的感觉到，在我自己的国家，我被视作一个异类了，仅仅因为我性格中某一方面的特点。我是毫无疑问的、法律规定的二等公民。
en:I had spent a year photographing this new generation of girls, much like myself,who fell kind of between-the-lines —girls who skateboarded but did it in lacy underwear,girls who had boys&#39; haircuts but wore girly nail polish,girls who had eyeshadow to match their scraped knees,girls who liked girls and boys who all liked boys and girlswho all hated being boxed in to anything.I loved these people, and I admired their freedom,but I watched as the world outside of our utopian bubbleexploded into these raging debateswhere pundits started likening our love to bestiality on national television.And this powerful awareness rolled in over methat I was a minority, and in my own home country,based on one facet of my character.I was legally and indisputably a second-class citizen.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:我不是行动主义者。我从来没有参加过游行示威。但是却被这个问题困扰：为什么人可以仅仅根据别人性格中某一个特征就将我知道的那么多行色各异的人的权利剥夺？他们怎么能说我们都是不配享受与他们同动公民权利的另一类人？我们是一类人么？哪一类？这些（投赞成票的）人有了解过他们歧视的受害者么？他们知道他们在投票反对什么，会带来什么影响么？
en:I was not an activist.I wave no flags in my own life.But I was plagued by this question:How could anyone vote to strip the rightsof the vast variety of people that I knewbased on one element of their character?How could they say that we as a groupwere not deserving of equal rights as somebody else?Were we even a group? What group?And had these people ever even consciously met a victim of their discrimination?Did they know who they were voting against and what the impact was?
时间： 7:08
zh-cn:然后我想到，如果他们能够有机会凝视一次他们认为是二等公民的人的眼睛，他们或许会更难投出这一票。或许会让他们想一下。很显然我不能开一个两千万人的派对，而我能想到的方法是通过照片让他们相互认识我不会对照片做任何处理，不做灯光特效，不做改动，什么都不做。因为照片的好处在于你可以在审视狮子的胡须的同时，不用担心它会扑过来撕下你的脸。
en:And then it occurred to me,perhaps if they could look into the eyesof the people that they were casting into second-class citizenshipit might make it harder for them to do.It might give them pause.Obviously I couldn&#39;t get 20 million people to the same dinner party,so I figured out a way where I could introduce them to each other photographicallywithout any artifice, without any lighting,or without any manipulation of any kind on my part.Because in a photograph you can examine a lion&#39;s whiskerswithout the fear of him ripping your face off.
时间： 7:42
zh-cn:对我而言，摄影不仅仅是曝光胶卷那么简单，它让观看者看到新的东西，体验从未有过的感觉，最重要的，让人们审视他们可能害怕的东西。《生活》杂志曾通过图片向一代人介绍了他们从未接触的遥远的、与众不同的文化。所以我决定制作一系列简单的肖像照，或者叫大头照。简单来说我拍摄这个城市不是百分之百“直”的人，这样的人，如果你没有意识到，数量多少数不清。
en:For me, photography is not just about exposing film,it&#39;s about exposing the viewerto something new, a place they haven&#39;t gone before,but most importantly, to people that they might be afraid of.Life magazine introduced generations of peopleto distant, far-off cultures they never knew existed through pictures.So I decided to make a series of very simple portraits,mugshots if you will.And I basically decided to photograph anyone in this countrythat was not 100 percent straight,which, if you don&#39;t know, is a limitless number of people.
时间： 8:16
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:18
zh-cn:所以这是一个非常大的工作量，我需要一些帮助来做这个。所以在两年前的二月，我冲破刺骨的寒冷，拍摄了我能找到的每一个这样的人。我拍了这些照片，我去找HRC希望能得到帮助。他们提供了赞助，（我们）在纽约进行了两周的摄影。这是我们的成果。
en:So this was a very large undertaking,and to do it we needed some help.So I ran out in the freezing cold,and I photographed every single person that I knew that I could get toin February of about two years ago.And I took those photographs, and I went to the HRC and I asked them for some help.And they funded two weeks of shooting in New York.And then we made this.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 8:54
zh-cn:我是欧伊·蒂利特·莱特，纽约土生土长的艺术家。（音乐）
en:Video: I&#39;m iO Tillett Wright, and I&#39;m an artist born and raised in New York City.(Music)
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:“不证自明的真理”是今天美国同性恋群体的摄影记录。我的目标是为在任何方面觉得自己不是百分之百“直”的人拍摄一幅简单的肖像。我的目标是通过一张张质朴的脸向大家阐释人性存在于每个人身上。（音乐）
en:Self Evident Truths is a photographic record of LGBTQ America today.My aim is to take a simple portraitof anyone who&#39;s anything other than 100 percent straightor feels like they fall in the LGBTQ spectrum in any way.My goal is to show the humanity that exists in every one of usthrough the simplicity of a face.(Music)
时间： 9:33
zh-cn:“我们认为人人生而平等这样的真理是不证自明的。”它被写在独立宣言中。我们正在丧失掉我们建国时候所坚持的信念。这样的美国没有平等可言。
en:&quot;We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal.&quot;It&#39;s written in the Declaration of Independence.We are failing as a nationto uphold the morals upon which we were founded.There is no equality in the United States.
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:“平等对你意味着什么？”“婚姻”、“自由”、“公民权利”、“待人如己”
en:[&quot;What does equality mean to you?&quot;][&quot;Marriage&quot;] [&quot;Freedom&quot;] [&quot;Civil rights&quot;][&quot;Treat every person as you&#39;d treat yourself&quot;]
时间： 9:51
zh-cn:不用去想，它本该如此。争取平等的斗争不仅仅是为了同性婚姻。今天，美国的29个州，超过美国州总数一半，你可能因为性取向而被合法的炒掉。
en:It&#39;s when you don&#39;t have to think about it, simple as that.The fight for equal rights is not just about gay marriage.Today in 29 states, more than half of this country,you can legally be fired just for your sexuality.
时间：10:05
zh-cn:“谁有义务捍卫平等？”
en:[&quot;Who is responsible for equality?&quot;]
时间：10:09
zh-cn:我听到很多人给出了同样的答案：“我们都有义务保证平等”目前我们在纽约拍摄了三百张人像。没有人权组织阵营的大力支持我们无法做到这一点。我希望在整个国家开展该项活动。我希望游历25个美国城市，拍摄4000到5000个人。这是我为我这一代人的公民权利斗争做出的努力。我要求你看着这些肖像的眼睛对他们说他们不配享有跟你一样的权利。（音乐）
en:I&#39;ve heard hundreds of people give the same answer:&quot;We are all responsible for equality.&quot;So far we&#39;ve shot 300 faces in New York City.And we wouldn&#39;t have been able to do any of itwithout the generous support of the Human Rights Campaign.I want to take the project across the country.I want to visit 25 American cities, and I want to shoot 4,000 or 5,000 people.This is my contribution to the civil rights fight of my generation.I challenge you to look into the faces of these peopleand tell them that they deserve less than any other human being.(Music)
时间：10:39
zh-cn:“不证自明的真理”“全美国的四千张肖像”
en:[&quot;Self evident truths&quot;][&quot;4,000 faces across America&quot;]
时间：10:43
zh-cn:（音乐）（鼓掌）
en:(Music)(Applause)
时间：10:56
zh-cn:我们当时绝对想不到这之后发生的事情。大概85000人观看了视频后给我们发电子邮件，要我们去他们的小镇拍摄，帮助他们出镜。想要参与的人数远远超过的了预计。所以我立刻把目标提高到了一万张肖像。视频制作自2011年的春天，而今年我已经在将近20个城市拍摄了将近2000个人的大头照。
en:iO Tillett Wright: Absolutely nothing could have prepared us for what happened after that.Almost 85,000 people watched that video,and then they started emailing us from all over the country,asking us to come to their towns and help them to show their faces.And a lot more people wanted to show their faces than I had anticipated.So I changed my immediate goal to 10,000 faces.That video was made in the spring of 2011,and as of today I have traveled to almost 20 citiesand photographed almost 2,000 people.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:我知道现在是演讲，但是我希望能留出一分钟时间什么都不说，只是看着他们的脸，因为我想不出需要补充什么。因为一图胜千言，没有一个词汇可以诠释一副面孔。
en:I know that this is a talk,but I&#39;d like to have a minute of just quietand have you just look at these facesbecause there is nothing that I can say that will add to them.Because if a picture is worth a thousand words,then a picture of a face needs a whole new vocabulary.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:在我游历俄克拉何马州和得克萨斯州（译者注：都是保守州）并与那里小镇上的人交谈之后，我们发现有迹象显示之前的提案已经死了。相互了解是关键。熟悉程度是引发同情的重要因素。当一个问题出现在你家后院或你自己的家庭中，你有大得多的可能性去同情，或接受一个新的观点。当然，在我的旅行中我遇见了跟同性恋子女断绝法律关系的父母，但是我也看到了这样的父母，当他们知道他们的孩子是同性恋时，他们从美南浸信会改信了基督教。同理心的触动是“不证自明的真理”的基石。
en:So after traveling and talking to peoplein places like Oklahoma or small-town Texas,we found evidence that the initial premise was dead on.Visibility really is key.Familiarity really is the gateway drug to empathy.Once an issue pops up in your own backyard or amongst your own family,you&#39;re far more likely to explore sympathy for itor explore a new perspective on it.Of course, in my travels I met peoplewho legally divorced their children for being other than straight,but I also met people who were Southern Baptistswho switched churches because their child was a lesbian.Sparking empathy had become the backbone of Self Evident Truths.
时间：12:48
zh-cn:但是接下来我发现了真正有趣的事情：“不证自明的真理”并没有消除我们之间的差异。相反的，差异被突出了。这体现出这件事情的复杂性，不仅体现在不同的人群之间，也体现在每个独立的个人之间。我们的盒子不是太多，而是太少。
en:But here&#39;s what I was starting to learn that was really interesting:Self Evident Truths doesn&#39;t erase the differences between us.In fact, on the contrary, it highlights them.It presents, not just the complexitiesfound in a procession of different human beings,but the complexities found within each individual person.It wasn&#39;t that we had too many boxes, it was that we had too few.
时间：13:18
zh-cn:在某刻我意识到我拍摄“同性恋者”的计划一开始就有瑕疵，“同性恋者”这个词可以分成上百万种不同的分类。我希望能够做点什么，而我接下来做的事情是我毕生想要去避免的——创造新的盒子。从某刻开始我在自己的问卷中添加了一个问题，要求填写者评估自己“同性恋”的程度，从零分到一百分给自己打分。然后我就目睹了无数的存在危机在我面前上演。（观众笑）人们从来没有被问过这个问题，也不知道怎么回答。你能量化自己的开放性（Openness）么？
en:At some point I realized that my mission to photograph &quot;gays&quot; was inherently flawed,because there were a million different shades of gay.Here I was trying to help,and I had perpetuated the very thing I had spent my life trying to avoid —yet another box.At some point I added a question to the release formthat asked people to quantify themselveson a scale of one to 100 percent gay.And I watched so many existential crises unfold in front of me.(Laughter)People didn&#39;t know what to dobecause they had never been presented with the option before.Can you quantify your openness?
时间：13:57
zh-cn:当他们缓过神来之后，多人给自己的分数在70到95分和3到20分之间。当然也有人认为自己是百分百的异性恋或同性恋，但是我发现非常大比例的人自我定位都是比较微妙的。我发现大多数人在这个色谱上都落在“灰色”的位置。
en:Once they got over the shock, though,by and large people opted for somewhere between 70 to 95 percentor the 3 to 20 percent marks.Of course, there were lots of people who opted for a 100 percent one or the other,but I found that a much larger proportion of peopleidentified as something that was much more nuanced.I found that most people fall on a spectrum of what I have come to refer to as &quot;Grey.&quot;
时间：14:20
zh-cn:我要明确一点——非常明确的一点——我从未否认过偏好(preference)的存在。我也没有打算去讨论这个问题是先天基因还是后天选择决定的，但是如果你们当中有人相信性取向是后天选择的，我邀请你站出来承认自己是“灰”的。我想给你拍张大头照。（观众笑）我想说，人类不是单一维度就可以区分的。百分制评价标准最重要的一点是，如果这边是完全的同性恋，另一边是完全的异性恋，当大多数人将自己定位成靠近异性恋或靠近同性恋这一极端的位置时，有相当多的人落在了这个色谱的中间位置。
en:Let me be clear though — and this is very important —in no way am I saying that preference doesn&#39;t exist.And I am not even going to address the issue of choice versus biological imperative,because if any of you happen to be of the beliefthat sexual orientation is a choice,I invite you to go out and try to be grey.I&#39;ll take your picture just for trying.(Laughter)What I am saying though is that human beings are not one-dimensional.The most important thing to take from the percentage system is this:If you have gay people over hereand you have straight people over here,and while we recognize that most people identifyas somewhere closer to one binary or another,there is this vast spectrum of people that exist in between.
时间：15:10
zh-cn:而事实上，这里展示的是一个很复杂的问题。因为，比如，你们通过一项法律允许老板开除有同性恋行为的员工，那么这条线应该画在（色谱的）哪里？是画在这里，有过一到两次异性恋经历的人这头？还是画在那里，只有过一到两次同性恋经历的人那头？究竟是什么原因使得一个人变成了二等公民？
en:And the reality that this presents is a complicated one.Because, for example, if you pass a lawthat allows a boss to fire an employee for homosexual behavior,where exactly do you draw the line?Is it over here, by the people who have had one or two heterosexual experiences so far?Or is it over hereby the people who have only had one or two homosexual experiences thus far?Where exactly does one become a second-class citizen?
时间：15:37
zh-cn:我的项目和我的游历经历让我学到的另一个有趣的事情是性取向对于人们的同化作用微乎其微。在游历了这么多地方、跟那么多人见面之后，我告诉你，同性恋团体中也有笨蛋、好人、民主党支持者、共和党支持者、土鳖、女神，你能在人类群体中发现的所有的观点差异在同性恋团体中都存在。是的，我们一起反抗意图束缚我们权利的法律，但是当你撇开我们被歧视和一起抗争的共同经历，“同性恋”这个身份，并不表示我们之间有什么共同点。
en:Another interesting thing that I learned from my project and my travelsis just what a poor binding agent sexual orientation is.After traveling so much and meeting so many people,let me tell you, there are just as many jerks and sweetheartsand Democrats and Republicans and jocks and queensand every other polarization you can possibly think ofwithin the LGBT communityas there are within the human race.Aside from the fact that we play with one legal hand tied behind our backs,and once you get past the shared narrative of prejudice and struggle,just being other than straightdoesn&#39;t necessarily mean that we have anything in common.
时间：16:19
zh-cn:所以随着“不证自明的真理”活动的开展，无穷无尽的人脸照片被新加进来，它可能出现在更多的平台，公交候车亭，广告牌，Facebook页面、屏幕保护程序中。或许随着人性的发展，一些有趣和有用的事情将会发生。这些分类、二分法、过度简化的盒子，或许有希望变得没有用处并开始消失。因为这些标准无法描述我们的所看、所知，也无法描述我们是什么。我们看到的是人类的多样性。而亲眼看到他们使得人们很难否认他们的人性。最低程度我希望这些面孔让人更难否定他们的人权。
en:So in the endless proliferation of faces that Self Evident Truths is always becoming,as it hopefully appears across more and more platforms,bus shelters, billboards, Facebook pages, screen savers,perhaps in watching this procession of humanity,something interesting and useful will begin to happen.Hopefully these categories, these binaries,these over-simplified boxeswill begin to become useless and they&#39;ll begin to fall away.Because really, they describe nothing that we seeand no one that we know and nothing that we are.What we see are human beings in all their multiplicity.And seeing them makes it harder to deny their humanity.At the very least I hope it makes it harder to deny their human rights.
时间：17:13
zh-cn:所以，我是否就是你所针对的那种人，拒绝承认我有居住的权利、抚养孩子的权利、结婚的权利、开店、生活、购物的自由？我是否就是你决定要脱离关系的人你的子女、你的兄弟姐妹、你的父母、你的邻居，你的堂兄，你的舅舅，美国总统，你（社区中）的女警或消防员？太迟了。因为我已经是你生活的一部分了。我们已经是相互生活的一部分，我们也将继续如此。所以请不要视我们为陌生人，视我们为跟你一样的人。句号。
en:So is it me particularlythat you would choose to deny the right to housing,the right to adopt children, the right to marriage,the freedom to shop here, live here, buy here?Am I the one that you choose to disownas your child or your brother or your sister or your mother or your father,your neighbor, your cousin, your uncle, the president,your police woman or the fireman?It&#39;s too late.Because I already am all of those things.We already are all of those things, and we always have been.So please don&#39;t greet us as strangers,greet us as your fellow human beings, period.
时间：17:56
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:57
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
