时间： 0:11
zh-cn:嗨，孩子们
en:Hi, kids.
时间： 0:13
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:15
zh-cn:我今年71岁
en:I&#39;m 71.
时间： 0:17
zh-cn:（掌声）我丈夫76岁我爸妈90多岁奥莉维亚（Olivia），我的狗，16岁让我们来谈谈衰老
en:(Applause)My husband is 76.My parents are in their late 90s,and Olivia, the dog, is 16.So let&#39;s talk about aging.
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:我想告诉你们我的感觉当我在镜子里看到自己的皱纹当我意识到身体的某些部分开始往下掉都不知道掉哪去了（笑声）
en:Let me tell you how I feelwhen I see my wrinkles in the mirrorand I realize that some parts of me have droppedand I can&#39;t find them down there.(Laughter)
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:玛丽•奥利弗（Mary Oliver）在她的一首诗里说“告诉我，你打算做什么用你野性而珍贵的一生 ？”我呢，我想要过得充满激情
en:Mary Oliver says in one of her poems,&quot;Tell me, what is it that you plan to dowith your one wild and precious life?&quot;Me, I intend to live passionately.
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:我们什么时候开始变老的呢？社会决定了几岁算老一般来说大概是65岁，我们能用到医保但其实我们从出生就开始变老了我们此时此刻就在变老而且我们的体验都是不一样的我们都觉得自己比实际年龄年轻因为精神是不会变老的我还是17岁索非亚•罗兰（Sophia Loren），看看她她说，你看到她的一切都要归功于意大利面我试了，然后胖了10磅胖在不该胖的地方态度，变老也关乎态度和健康但我在变老旅途上的真正导师是欧嘉•马瑞（Olga Murray）这个加州女孩在60岁的时候开始在尼泊尔工作把那儿的年轻女孩们从火坑里救出来88岁的时候，她已经救了12000个女孩了她改变了那里的文化（掌声）现在（在尼泊尔）父亲要是把女儿卖去当奴隶是非法的她还创办了孤儿院营养诊所她总是很快乐而且永远年轻
en:When do we start aging?Society decides when we are old,usually around 65, when we get Medicare,but we really start aging at birth.We are aging right now,and we all experience it differently.We all feel younger than our real age,because the spirit never ages.I am still 17.Sophia Loren. Look at her.She says that everything you seeshe owes to spaghetti.I tried it and gained 10 poundsin the wrong places.But attitude, aging is also attitude and health.But my real mentor in this journey of agingis Olga Murray.This California girl at 60started working in Nepal to save young girlsfrom domestic bondage.At 88, she has saved 12,000 girls,and she has changed the culture in the country.(Applause)Now it is illegal for fathersto sell their daughters into servitude.She has also founded orphanagesand nutritional clinics.She is always happyand eternally young.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:我在过去的几十年里失去了什么？失去了一些人，当然失去了一些地方，和青春带给我的无尽能量我开始失去自立的能力这让我害怕拉姆·达斯（Ram Dass）说：依赖是伤人的但如果你接受它，就能少点痛苦在一次严重的中风之后他不老的灵魂温柔地看着身体的所有变化他开始对那些帮助他的人心存感激
en:What have I lost in the last decades?People, of course,places, and the boundless energy of my youth,and I&#39;m beginning to lose independence,and that scares me.Ram Dass says that dependency hurts,but if you accept it, there is less suffering.After a very bad stroke,his ageless soul watches the changesin the body with tenderness,and he is grateful to the people who help him.
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:我得到了些什么呢？自由：我不必再证明任何东西了我不再纠结于我是谁我想变成谁或者别人期待我变成什么样了我不再需要去取悦别人动物除外我一直叫我的超我别过来好让我享受我仍拥有的一切我的身体可能在散架但我的大脑还没有我爱我的大脑我还觉得轻松多了我不再有恩怨，野心，虚荣七宗罪甚至都不是事放手，是件很棒的事我该更早学会的我也觉得自己更柔软了因为我不再因为脆弱而感到害怕我不再把它看成是软弱我还多了几分灵性我以前觉得死亡就在附近现在呢，它就在隔壁，或者就在我屋子里我努力用心生活活在当下顺便说一句，达赖喇嘛算是老得很漂亮但谁愿意成为素食加单身呢？（笑声）
en:What have I gained?Freedom: I don&#39;t have to prove anything anymore.I&#39;m not stuck in the idea of who I was,who I want to be,or what other people expect me to be.I don&#39;t have to please men anymore,only animals.I keep telling my superego to back offand let me enjoy what I still have.My body may be falling apart,but my brain is not, yet.I love my brain.I feel lighter.I don&#39;t carry grudges, ambition, vanity,none of the deadly sins that are not evenworth the trouble.It&#39;s great to let go.I should have started sooner.And I also feel softerbecause I&#39;m not scared of being vulnerable.I don&#39;t see it as weakness anymore.And I&#39;ve gained spirituality.I&#39;m aware that before,death was in the neighborhood.Now, it&#39;s next door, or in my house.I try to live mindfullyand be present in the moment.By the way, the Dalai Lamais someone who has aged beautifully,but who wants to be vegetarian and celibate?(Laughter)
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:冥想挺有用的
en:Meditation helps.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:（视频）小孩：唵，唵，唵。
en:(Video) Child: Ommm. Ommm. Ommm.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:唵，唵。就像这样而且越早开始越好
en:Isabel Allende: Ommm. Ommm. There it is.And it&#39;s good to start early.
时间： 4:34
zh-cn:你知道，像我这样虚荣的女性在现在这样的文化环境里是很难变老的我觉得我自己很好，很有魅力，很妖媚，很性感但别人都看不到。（笑声）我是隐形的我想成为瞩目的焦点我讨厌自己隐形（笑声）（掌声）
en:You know, for a vain female like myself,it&#39;s very hard to age in this culture.Inside, I feel good, I feel charming, seductive, sexy.Nobody else sees that. (Laughter)I&#39;m invisible.I want to be the center of attention.I hate to be invisible.(Laughter) (Applause)
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:这是格蕾丝・达曼（Grace Dammann）因为一场车祸她坐轮椅已经六年了她说，没有什么比冲个热水澡更感性的事情了每一滴水滴都是一种感官的享受她不觉得自己是残疾在她心里，她一直都在海里冲浪艾塞尔・赛德曼（Ethel Seiderman）在我住的加利福尼亚是个好强而可爱的活动家她总穿一双招牌的红鞋她的口头禅是：一条围巾固然好但两条更好她已经守寡九年了但她不想再找个伴她说，做爱的方法就那么几种好吧，这不是她的原话她说她都已经试过了（笑声）我就不一样我仍然对安东尼奥·班德拉斯（Antonio Banderas）抱有性幻想（笑声）我可怜的丈夫只能忍
en:This is Grace Dammann.She has been in a wheelchair for six yearsafter a terrible car accident.She says that there is nothing more sensualthan a hot shower,that every drop of wateris a blessing to the senses.She doesn&#39;t see herself as disabled.In her mind, she&#39;s still surfing in the ocean.Ethel Seiderman, a feisty, beloved activistin the place where I live in California.She wears red patent shoes,and her mantra is that one scarf is nicebut two is better.She has been a widow for nine years,but she&#39;s not looking for another mate.She says that there is only a limited numberof ways you can screw —well, she says it in another way —and she has tried them all.(Laughter)I, on the other hand,I still have erotic fantasies with Antonio Banderas —(Laughter) —and my poor husband has to put up with it.
时间： 6:04
zh-cn:我要怎么让自己保持激情呢？71岁的人不是说激情就能激情的我训练自己有一段时间了当我觉得平淡无聊的时候，我就假装自己充满激情态度，还是态度我怎么训练自己呢？我训练自己对所有的事情说Yes无论情节，无论悲喜对爱，对死亡，对失去对生活，说Yes我训练自己心存爱意这并不是一直都管用的但至少我在试
en:So how can I stay passionate?I cannot will myself to be passionate at 71.I have been training for some time,and when I feel flat and bored, I fake it.Attitude, attitude.How do I train? I train by saying yesto whatever comes my way:drama, comedy, tragedy,love, death, losses.Yes to life.And I train by trying to stay in love.It doesn&#39;t always work,but you cannot blame me for trying.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:最后一点退休在西班牙语里叫 jubilación就是喜庆，庆祝的意思我们都缴了税也都对社会有所贡献了现在我们的好日子来了，精彩的日子除非你病了或很穷你有很多选择我选择了保持激情敞开胸怀我每天都在这样努力想跟我一起吗？
en:And, on a final note,retirement in Spanish is jubilación.Jubilation. Celebration.We have paid our dues.We have contributed to society.Now it&#39;s our time, and it&#39;s a great time.Unless you are ill or very poor,you have choices.I have chosen to stay passionate,engaged with an open heart.I am working on it every day.Want to join me?
时间： 7:11
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间： 7:13
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:主持人: 那么伊莎贝IA: 谢谢
en:June Cohen: So Isabel —IA: Thank you.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:主持人: 首先我不太喜欢代表 TED 社群发言但我想告诉你我觉得我们都一致同意你依然有魅力，妩媚跟性感。对吗？
en:JC: First of all,I never like to presume tospeak for the TED community,but I would like to tell you that I have a feelingwe can all agree that you are still charming,seductive and sexy. Yes?
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:IA: 谢谢（掌声）
en:IA: Aww, thank you.(Applause)
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:主持人: 毫无疑义IA: 只是化妆啦
en:JC: Hands down.IA: No, it&#39;s makeup.
时间： 7:39
zh-cn:主持人: 现在呢，如果我追问一个问题关于你的性幻想，会不会有点尴尬？
en:Moderator: Now, would it be awkwardif I asked you a follow-up questionabout your erotic fantasies?
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:IA: 当然好。关于啥来着？
en:IA: Oh, of course. About what?
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:主持人: 关于你的性幻想IA: 是跟安东尼奥·班德拉斯（Antonio Banderas）
en:Moderator: About your erotic fantasies.IA: With Antonio Banderas.
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:主持人: 我只是想说你会不会还有更多要分享
en:Moderator: I was just wonderingif you have anything more to share.
时间： 7:51
zh-cn:主持人: 好吧，说一个吧 （笑声）其中一个是这样的：我把裸体的安东尼奥·班德拉斯（Antonio Banderas）放在墨西哥玉米饼上往他身上涂满鳄梨酱和莎莎酱然后卷起来，把他吃掉。（笑声）
en:IA: Well, one of them is that — (Laughter)One of them is that I place a naked Antonio Banderason a Mexican tortilla,I slather him with guacamole and salsa,I roll him up, and I eat him. (Laughter)
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间： 8:10
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
