时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我刚从一个社群回来它们掌握着人类生存的秘密。在这个社群，女性主导一切，要做爱就打声招呼，玩乐是全天的法宝—快乐玩耍是个正经严肃的事。不是的，这不是指欲火焚烧的男人也不是指旧金山（意指多元文化）。（笑声）女士们，先生们，见见你的近亲。这就是野生倭黑猩猩的世界座落于刚果的丛林中。倭黑猩猩和黑猩猩是我们大家生活里最密切相关的近亲。这意味我们都享有一个共同的祖先，一个进化了的祖母，她生活在大约6百万年前。现在，黑猩猩因他们的好战而闻名于世。
en:I just came back from a communitythat holds the secret to human survival.It&#39;s a place where women run the show,have sex to say hello,and play rules the day —where fun is serious business.And no, this isn&#39;t Burning Manor San Francisco.(Laughter)Ladies and gentlemen, meet your cousins.This is the world of wild bonobosin the jungles of Congo.Bonobos are, together with chimpanzees,your living closest relative.That means we all share a common ancestor,an evolutionary grandmother,who lived around six million years ago.Now, chimpanzees are well-knownfor their aggression.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:但不幸的是，我们已经过分强调这方面在人类进化的历史中所起的作用。但是倭黑猩猩显示给我们的是这硬币的另一面。当黑猩猩被又大又吓人的雄黑猩猩统领时，倭黑猩猩社群是由雌倭黑猩猩所领导。这些倭黑猩猩能相安无事地生活在一起，由此形成了一个高度包容性的社会在这社群，致命的暴力行为还没有被观察到。但不幸的是，倭黑猩猩是类人猿里最难被了解的一种。它们生活在刚果丛林的深处，所以对它们的研究就是非常困难。
en:But unfortunately,we have made too much of an emphasisof this aspectin our narratives of human evolution.But bonobos show usthe other side of the coin.While chimpanzeesare dominated by big, scary guys,bonobo societyis run by empowered females.These guys have really worked something out,since this leads to a highly tolerant societywhere fatal violencehas not been observed yet.But unfortunately,bonobos are the least understoodof the great apes.They live in the depths of the Congolese jungle,and it has been very difficult to study them.
时间： 1:50
zh-cn:刚果是个似是而非的矛盾体—她是一块孕育非凡的生物多样性和美丽的土地，但她自身也是黑暗之心—暴力冲突的场景已经持续了几十年这夺走了许多生命就如第一次世界大战一样。不足为奇的是，这种破坏也危及倭黑猩猩的生存。猎寻兽肉的买卖和丛林消失意味着我们不能给在世界上仅存的倭黑猩猩们提供一个小小的栖息地—实话，我们甚至都不能确定是否会有一个小的栖息地。然而，在这个充斥暴力和混乱的土地上你能听到隐隐约约的笑声摇曳在树木中。
en:The Congo is a paradox —a land of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty,but also the heart of darkness itself —the scene of a violent conflictthat has raged for decadesand claimed nearly as many livesas the First World War.Not surprisingly,this destruction also endangers bonobo survival.Bushmeat trades and forest lossmeans we couldn&#39;t fill a small stadiumwith all the bonobos that are left in the world —and we&#39;re not even sure of that to be honest.Yet, in this land of violence and chaos,you can hear hidden laughterswaying the trees.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:这些近亲是些什么动物啊？我们知道它们是“做爱，不要战争”的类人猿，因此它们有频繁的，很随便的性生活和双性性交来处理冲突和解决社会问题。我现在不是说这就是解决人类所有问题的方法—因为玩乐对于倭黑猩猩来说比起欲经意味更多。倭黑猩猩就像人类，在它们的整个一生都爱玩乐。玩乐不仅仅是孩子的游戏。对于我们人类和倭黑猩猩，玩乐是建立亲密关系和培养容忍性的基础。它也让我们学会信任和游戏的规则玩乐增进了创造力和适应力，它都是有关多样性的产生—多样性的相互作用，多样性的行为，和多样性的联系。当你看倭黑猩猩玩乐时，你会看到非常进化的根源有关人类的笑声，跳舞和仪式。玩乐就是粘结剂使得我们相互联系在一起。
en:Who are these cousins?We know them as the &quot;make love, not war&quot; apessince they have frequent, promiscuousand bisexual sexto manage conflictand solve social issues.Now, I&#39;m not saying this is the solutionto all of humanity&#39;s problems —since there&#39;s more to bonobo lifethan the Kama Sutra.Bonobos, like humans,love to play throughout their entire lives.Play is not just child&#39;s games.For us and them,play is foundational for bonding relationshipsand fostering tolerance.It&#39;s where we learn to trustand where we learn about the rules of the game.Play increases creativityand resilience,and it&#39;s all about the generation of diversity —diversity of interactions,diversity of behaviors,diversity of connections.And when you watch bonobo play,you&#39;re seeing the very evolutionary rootsof human laughter, danceand ritual.Play is the gluethat binds us together.
时间： 3:50
zh-cn:现在我虽不知你是怎么玩乐的，但我想给你们看两段刚从野外拍摄到的特别剪辑。首先，这是一个倭黑猩猩式的球类游戏—我不是指足球。在这儿，两只年轻的一雌一雄倭黑猩猩在玩追逐游戏。看看她在做什么。这可能就是短语“她在玩弄他的蛋蛋。”的进化起源。（笑声）我只想到他相当喜欢这样的方式，对吧。是的。（笑声）所以性游戏在倭黑猩猩和人类两者身上都是司空见惯的。这个视频真的很有趣因为它证明—这个视频真的很有趣因为它证明了把不寻常的因素带进游戏里所产生的创造性—例如睾丸—游戏如何能寻求信任和培养信任—与此同时又乐趣无穷。
en:Now, I don&#39;t know how you play,but I want to show you a couple of unique clipsfresh from the wild.First, it&#39;s a ball game bonobo-style —and I do not mean football.So here,we have a young female and a maleengaged in a chase game.Have a look what she&#39;s doing.It might be the evolutionary origin of the phrase,&quot;she&#39;s got him by the balls.&quot;(Laughter)Only I think that he&#39;s rather loving it here, right?Yeah.(Laughter)So sex play is commonin both bonobos and humans.And this video is really interestingbecause it shows —this video&#39;s really interestingbecause it shows the inventivenessof bringing unusual elements into play —such as testicles —and also how play both requires trustand fosters trust —while at the same time being tremendous fun.
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:但玩乐是一个变形的过程。（笑声）玩乐是一个变形的过程，它可以变成许多玩乐游戏，一些游戏是较安静的，富有想象力的，探于求索的—或许这玩乐的奇妙是发现新鲜事。我想让大家看看，这是福酷，一个年轻雌倭黑猩猩，她正在悄然地玩耍水。我认为，就像她，我们有时独自玩耍，我们探索着我们内心和我们外部世界的界限。正是玩乐的新奇感驱使我们去探索，驱使我们去互动联系。然后我们所形成的这种意想不到的联系是真正孕育创造力的温床。
en:But play&#39;s a shapeshifter.(Laughter)Play&#39;s a shapeshifter,and it can take many forms,some of which are more quiet,imaginative, curious —maybe where wonder is discovered anew.And I want you to see,this is Fuku, a young female,and she is quietly playing with water.I think, like her,we sometimes play alone,and we explore the boundariesof our inner and our outer worlds.And it&#39;s that playful curiositythat drives us to explore, drives us to interact,and then the unexpected connections we formare the real hotbed for creativity.
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:因此这些仅是浅尝而已由倭黑猩猩带给我们这种深刻的洞察力来探索我们的过去和现在。但它们也对我们的未来保有一个秘密，在未来我们需要适应一个日益充满挑战性的世界通过史无前例的创造性和更多的合作来做到。这秘密是玩乐是具备这些能力的关键。换言之，玩乐是我们适应未来的万能牌。为了成功地适应一个变化中的世界，我们需要玩乐。但我们要尽可能地嬉戏玩乐吗？玩乐不是无足轻重的；玩乐是至关重要的。对于倭黑猩猩和人类一样，生活不仅仅是血红的牙齿和利爪。好似最不适宜去玩乐的时候，但它可能是最迫切需要玩乐的时候。
en:So these are just small tastersinto the insights that bonobo give usto our past and present.But they also hold a secret for our future,a future where we need to adaptto an increasingly challenging worldthrough greater creativityand greater cooperation.The secret is that play is the keyto these capacities.In other words,play is our adaptive wildcard.In order to adapt successfullyto a changing world,we need to play.But will we make the most of our playfulness?Play is not frivolous.Play&#39;s essential.For bonobos and humans alike,life is not just red in tooth and claw.In times when it seems least appropriate to play,it might be the times when it is most urgent.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:那么，我的灵长类的同胞们，让我们拥护这天赋进化的礼物让我们一起嬉戏玩乐，由此我们重新发现创造力，情同手足的关系和奇迹。
en:And so, my fellow primates,let us embrace this gift from evolutionand play together,as we rediscover creativity,fellowship and wonder.
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
