时间： 0:11
zh-cn:有些东西是我们每个人都必不可少的。我们需要可以呼吸的空气。我们需要可以饮用的净水。我们需要食物，我们需要居所和他人的关爱。对吧？关爱也是很好的东西。我们还需要一个可以安全地撒尿的地方。
en:There are a few thingsthat all of us need.We all need air to breathe.We need clean water to drink.We need food to eat.We need shelter and love.You know. Love is great, too.And we all need a safe place to pee.
时间： 0:32
zh-cn:（笑声）是吧？
en:(Laughter) Yeah?
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:作为一个无法很好适应性别二元论的跨性别者，如果我马上能改变世界，让自己在其中更加自如，我所做的第一件事，一定是创造不分性别的卫生间隔间，所有的公共场所都要有。
en:As a trans person who doesn&#39;t fit neatlyinto the gender binary,if I could change the world tomorrowto make it easier for me to navigate,the very first thing I would dois blink and create single stall,gender-neutral bathroomsin all public places.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:（鼓掌）跨性别者以及跨性别问题，最近特别受到主流媒体的关注。这其实是个很有必要的好事，但大多数的关注度却只集中在很少的几个个体身上，这些人普遍都挺有钱的，而且也挺出名，而且可能也不用对在哪里撒尿这个问题操心太多，他们不用在社区大学的课堂间穿行，也不用在公立高中的健身房里四处找地方换衣服。名与利，让这些电视上的跨性别明星不用操心大多数的日常问题，而这些问题是我们其他跨性别者天天都必须面对的。
en:(Applause)Trans people and trans issues,they&#39;ve been getting a lotof mainstream media attention lately.And this is a great and necessary thing,but most of that attentionhas been focusedon a very few individuals,most of whom are kinda richand pretty famous,and probably don&#39;t have to worry that muchanymore about where they&#39;re going to peein between classesat their community college,or where they&#39;re going to get changedinto their gym stripat their public high school.Fame and money insulatesthese television star trans peoplefrom most of the everyday challengesthat the rest of ushave to tackle on a daily basis.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:公共卫生间。自从我有记忆以来，它们就是我要面对的一个问题，从很久以前我还是个假小子的时候，到后来变成一个长得像男的，却被雌性激素所支配的奇特有机体。
en:Public bathrooms.They&#39;ve been a problem for mesince as far back as I can remember,first when I was just a little baby tomboyand then later as a masculine-appearing,predominantly estrogen-based organism.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:03
zh-cn:现在，作为一个跨性别者，公共卫生间和更衣室是我最有可能受到质疑或被侵害的地方。我经常会遭受门后的人的言语攻击。我曾经在裤子才提起来一半的时候就被警卫拖出来。我被人盯着看、被人吼、被人在背后说三道四，还有一次我被一个小老太太拿手提包甩了一脸。当我回家看到我的黑眼圈的时候，我敢打赌那个包里装着至少70美元的零散硬币，还有全套的Hard Candy牌化妆品。
en:Now, today as a trans person,public bathrooms and change roomsare where I am most likelyto be questioned or harassed.I&#39;ve often been verballyattacked behind their doors.I&#39;ve been hauled out by security guardswith my pants still halfway pulled up.I&#39;ve been stared at,screamed at, whispered about,and one time I got smacked in the faceby a little old lady&#39;s pursethat from the looks of the shinerI took home that dayI am pretty certain contained at least70 dollars of rolled up small changeand a large hard candy collection.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:我知道你们有些人在想什么，而且其实你们挺对的。我现在大部分时候当然可以直接进男卫生间。但是到了更衣室里我的情况还是很麻烦，不是吗？而且因为我不是一个男人，所以我其实不应该进男卫生间。我是一个跨性别的人。
en:And I know what some of you are thinking,and you&#39;re mostly right.I can and do just use the men&#39;s roommost of the time these days.But that doesn&#39;t solvemy change room dilemmas, does it?And I shouldn&#39;t have to use the men&#39;s roombecause I&#39;m not a man.I&#39;m a trans person.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:现在我们又遇到了一些专门制造恐慌的政治家，他们努力让一些有关卫生间的法案通过。你们听说过吗？他们想要立法，然后强迫像我这样的人使用他们觉得最合适我的卫生间，也就是依据出生时的性别来判断。这些政治家一旦得逞，不论是在亚利桑那，还是在加利福尼亚或是佛罗里达，或者是上周在德克萨斯州的休斯顿，还有渥太华，那么好吧，对我来说进男卫生间都是一个违法的事情了。
en:And now we&#39;ve gotthese fearmongering politiciansthat keep trying to passthese bathroom bills.Have you heard about these?They try to legislateto try and force people like myselfto use the bathroomthat they deem most appropriateaccording to the genderI was assigned at birth.And if these politiciansever get their way,in Arizona or California or Floridaor just last week in Houston, Texas,or Ottawa,well then, using the men&#39;s roomwill not be a legal option for me either.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:每次我看到这些政治家公开提出这样的一个法案，我就忍不住在思考了，到底有哪些人会去执行、还有怎么执行这些法律？对吧？内裤检查？开玩笑吧。在公共游泳池的更衣室外面检查你的生殖器官？根本就没有一种合法的或者是符合道德的方法来执行这样的法律。它们的存在只能造成恐慌，而且让人更歧视跨性别者。它们不能让任何人更安全。但是它们却让我们某些人的世界更危险了。
en:And every time one of these politiciansbrings one of these bills to the table,I can&#39;t help but wonder, you know,just who will and exactly how would wego about enforcing laws like these. Right?Panty checks?Really.Genital inspections outsideof bath change rooms at public pools?There&#39;s no legalor ethical or plausible wayto enforce laws like these anyway.They exist only to foster fearand promote transphobia.They don&#39;t make anyone safer.But they do for sure make the worldmore dangerous for some of us.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:与此同时，跨性别的孩子们在受苦。他们从学校辍学，或者干脆就弃世而逃了。跨性别的人，特别是有性别认知障碍的青少年，当去到游泳池、健身房的时候要面临更多的挑战，去到大学也是，还有医院、图书馆等等。千万别跟我提他们在机场是怎么对待我们的。
en:And meanwhile, our trans children suffer.They drop out of school,or they opt out of life altogether.Trans people, especially transand gender-nonconforming youthface additional challengeswhen accessing pools and gyms,but also universities,hospitals, libraries.Don&#39;t even get me startedon how they treat us in airports.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:如果我们不做出行动，去让这些地方真正的向每个人公平地开放，那么我们干脆诚实一点，别叫它们“公共场所”了。我们只需要承认这些场所只是向那些可以按照两种性别归类的那些人开放。而我不属于其中。我从来就不是。很早以前就不是了。
en:If we don&#39;t move nowto make sure that these placesare truly open and accessible to everyone,then we just need to get honestand quit calling them public places.We need to just admitthat they are really only open for peoplewho fit neatlyinto one of two gender boxes,which I do not.I never have.And this starts very early.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:我认识一个小女孩。她是我一个朋友的女儿。她觉得自己是个假小子。她喜欢的东西，像牛仔靴，还有黄色的卡特彼勒玩具卡车，装昆虫的罐子之类的东西。有一次我问她最喜欢什么颜色，她回答我说：“迷彩色。”
en:I know a little girl.She&#39;s the daughter of a friend of mine.She&#39;s a self-identified tomboy.I&#39;m talking about cowboy bootsand Caterpillar yellow toy trucksand bug jars, the whole nine yards.One time I asked herwhat her favorite color was.She told me, &quot;Camouflage.&quot;
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:就是这样一个棒棒的孩子，她去年十月从学校回来，在幼儿园待了半天就回来了，裤子上都湿漉漉的，因为当她被逼去女洗手间的时候学校里其他孩子都在调戏她。老师之前已经警告过她不要进男洗手间。她刚刚才喝完两杯蔓越橘果汁，万圣节派对上的那种，你们想想看，谁能抵挡那种果汁的诱惑呢？它味道好极了。她真的是一刻都憋不住小便了。
en:So that awesome little kid,she came home from school last Octoberfrom her half day of preschoolwith soggy pants on because the other kidsat school were harassing herwhen she tried to use the girls&#39; bathroom.And the teacher had already instructed herto stay out of the boys&#39; bathroom.And she had drank two glassesof that red juiceat the Halloween party,and I mean, who can resistthat red juice, right? It&#39;s so good.And she couldn&#39;t hold her pee any longer.
时间： 6:30
zh-cn:她和她的同学那时才四岁。然而同学们已经觉得能够监管她如何使用所谓“公共卫生间”。她才四岁啊。她那时就已经学到了惨痛的教训，幼儿园里没有一个卫生间门上会挂着一个牌子写着欢迎像她一样的人。她早就知道卫生间会是一个大问题，而且是她所产生的问题，也只有她要面对。所以我的朋友请我去跟她的小女儿好好聊聊，我就去了。我很想告诉她，我和她的妈妈会一起气冲冲地跑到学校，跟他们交涉，最终一切问题都会解决的，但我深知这是不可能的事。我想告诉她，等她长大后一切都会变得更好的，但我说不出口。所以我就问了她事情的经过，然后问她，这件事让她心里怎么想。“又生气，又难过，”她这样告诉我。然后我就告诉她，她不是一个人，在她身上发生的一切都是不对的，然后她就问我，我以前有没有尿过裤子。我说有啊，当然有，只不过没有一次尿那么多。
en:Her and her classmateswere four years old.They already felt empowered enoughto police her useof the so-called public bathrooms.She was four years old.She had already been taughtthe brutal lessonthat there wasno bathroom door at preschoolwith a sign on itthat welcomed people like her.She&#39;d already learned that bathroomswere going to be a problem,and that problem started with herand was hers alone.So my friend asked meto talk to her little daughter,and I did.I wanted to tell herthat me and her momwere going to march on downand talk to that school,and the problem was going to go away,but I knew that wasn&#39;t true.I wanted to tell her that it was allgoing to get better when she got older,but I couldn&#39;t.So I asked her to tell methe story of what had happened,asked her to tell me how it made her feel.&quot;Mad and sad,&quot;she told me.So I told herthat she wasn&#39;t aloneand that it wasn&#39;t rightwhat had happened to her,and then she asked meif I had ever peed in my pants before.I said yes, I had,but not for a really long time.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:当然了，这都是骗人的，因为，你们想想看，你们到了四十二三岁的时候，有时候你们就，怎么说好呢……你们咳嗽、打喷嚏的时候就会尿一点点，或者是跑上楼梯的时候，做拉伸运动的时候。不要撒谎。你们都做过这种事，对吧？我猜我都不用告诉她，她自己早知道了。
en:Which of course was a lie,because you knowhow you hit, like, 42 or 43,and sometimes you just,I don&#39;t know, you pee a little bitwhen you cough or sneeze,when you&#39;re running upstairs,or you&#39;re stretching.Don&#39;t lie.It happens. Right?She doesn&#39;t need to know that, I figure.
时间： 8:21
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:我告诉她，等你长大了，你的膀胱也会长大的。等你像我一样年纪，你憋尿的时间就可以长很多了。我向她这样保证。
en:I told her, when you get older,your bladder is going to grow bigger, too.When you get old like me,you&#39;re going to be ableto hold your pee for way longer,I promised her.
时间： 8:38
zh-cn:“能憋到回家吗？”她这样问我。
en:&quot;Until you can get home?&quot;she asked me.
时间： 8:43
zh-cn:我说，“是的，能憋到回家的。”听到这句话，她似乎感到些许安慰。
en:I said, &quot;Yes,until you can get home.&quot;She seemed to take some comfort in that.
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:所以，让我们设立一些不分性别的卫生间单间吧，里面还要放一些小板凳，让人可以换上健身用的衣服。我们不能一夜间为我们的下一代而改变世界，但是我们能做的是给他们一个安全私密的地方来逃避外面的世界，哪怕只是一分钟。这是我们能做到的。我们就去做吧。
en:So let&#39;s just build some single stall,gender-neutral bathroomswith a little bench for getting changedinto your gym clothes.We can&#39;t change the world overnightfor our children,but we can give thema safe and private placeto escape that world,if only for just a minute.This we can do.So let&#39;s just do it.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:如果你现在就开始苦思冥想，在脑海里列举出一大堆理由，想要说明这件事无足轻重，或者觉得这件事太过昂贵，又或者觉得，给一个跨性别者一个可以安全地撒尿的地方或者是换衣服的地方，这种生活方式会颠覆你的道德观念，颠覆你的男子气概，颠覆你的宗教信仰，那么就让我恳求你，恳求你心灵里或许仍存的一隅，希望能够唤醒其中对世间大众的关怀之情。如果你不能说服自己，对像我这样的人给予足够关怀，那么你又怎么对待那些遭受体象障碍的女性呢？你怎么对待患有体象障碍的所有人？怎么对待一个学校里的小男生，他比他同学都矮30厘米，而且还没进入变声期？怎么对待？哦，八年级的时光啊，你可真是个残忍的主子啊！对吧？那些患有焦虑症的人呢？还有那些身患残疾、需要帮助的人呢？还有一些人的身体，不知什么原因，就是跟一般概念的“身体”看上去不一样？我们中还有多少人，在他人面前脱衣服时会感到害羞或恐惧？还有多少人因为这种恐惧而不再参加一些重要的日常活动，比如说体育锻炼？这所有人，不都会因为这些卫生间单间而受益无穷吗？
en:And if you are one of those peoplewho is sitting out there right nowalready coming up with a list of reasonsin your head why this is not a priority,or it&#39;s too expensive,or telling yourself that givinga trans person a safe place to peeor get changed insupports a lifestyle choicethat you feel offends your morality,or your masculinity,or your religious beliefs,then let me just appealto the part of your heartthat probably, hopefully,does care aboutthe rest of the population.If you can&#39;t bring yourselfto care enough about people like me,then what about women and girlswith body image issues?What about anyonewith body image stuff going on?What about that boy at schoolwho is a foot shorter than his classmates,whose voice still hasn&#39;t dropped yet? Hey?Oh, grade eight,what a cruel master you can be.Right?What about people with anxiety issues?What about people with disabilitiesor who need assistance in there?What about folks with bodieswho, for whatever reason,don&#39;t fit into the mainstream ideaof what a body should look like?How many of us still feel shyor afraid to disrobein front of our peers,and how many of us allow that fearto keep us from something as importantas physical exercise?Would all those people not benefitfrom these single stall facilities?
时间：11:16
zh-cn:我们不能一夜间改变人们对跨性别者的恐惧心理，但我们可以给每个人提供一个这样的更衣场所，这样，我们就可以一同努力，让我们每个人，享受一个更安全的世界。
en:We can&#39;t changetransphobic minds overnight,but we can give everybodya place to get changed inso that we can all get to workmaking the world saferfor all of us.
时间：11:38
zh-cn:感谢各位倾听。
en:Thank you for listening.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:42
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：11:43
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
