时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在我的职业生涯里，我非常幸运的和很多著名的国际建筑师一起工作过，整理他们的工作，并观察他们的设计是如何有能力去影响其所在的城市。我想到了如迪拜一样的新城市或者像罗马一样的老城市拥有扎哈·哈迪德不可思议的设计——21世纪国家艺术博物馆或者像这里，高楼林立的纽约一个被摩天大楼的建筑深深影响的城市。
en:Throughout my career, I&#39;ve been fortunate enoughto work with many of the greatinternational architects,documenting their work and observinghow their designs have the capacityto influence the cities in which they sit.I think of new cities like Dubaior ancient cities like Romewith Zaha Hadid&#39;s incredible MAXXI museum,or like right here in New York with the High Line,a city which has been so much influencedby the development of this.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:但是我发现最吸引我的是当这些城市的建筑师和规划者离开人们开始使用这些地方时，城市将会发生怎样的变化比如印度的昌迪加尔一个完全由建筑师 勒·柯布西耶设计的城市。60年后的今天，这个城市已经被居民以一种当初设计时不可设想的方式所使用，像这里有人们坐在礼堂的窗户上。但是在这几年期间，我在记录雷姆·库哈斯设计的北京CCTV大楼和同一个城市里由赫尔佐格和德·梅隆设计的奥运主体育场。在这些中国的大型基建项目里，你可以看到一种临时的帐篷营地是工人在整个施工期间居住的地方。由于施工期需要多年的时间，工人最终形成一种非常原始和简单的非常规城市，和他们正在建设的复杂结构的建筑并存。
en:But what I find really fascinatingis what happens when architects and planners leaveand these places become appropriated by people,like here in Chandigarh, India,the city which has been completely designedby the architect Le Corbusier.Now 60 years later, the city has been taken overby people in very different waysfrom whatever perhaps intended for,like here, where you have the peoplesitting in the windows of the assembly hall.But over the course of several years,I&#39;ve been documenting Rem Koolhaas&#39;sCCTV building in Beijingand the olympic stadium in the same cityby the architects Herzog and de Meuron.At these large-scale construction sites in China,you see a sort of makeshift campwhere workers live during the entire building process.As the length of the construction takes years,workers end up forming a rather rough-and-readyinformal city, making for quite a juxtapositionagainst the sophisticated structures that they&#39;re building.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:在过去的七年里，我一直在追随着我对建筑环境的兴趣，并且对你们当中了解我的人，你们会说这种痴迷使我一年365天提着行李生活一直四处奔波意味着有时我可以抓住生活中最不可预测的时刻，比如在纽约这里在桑迪飓风袭击城市后的一天。
en:Over the past seven years, I&#39;ve been followingmy fascination with the built environment,and for those of you who know me, you would saythat this obsession has led me to liveout of a suitcase 365 days a year.Being constantly on the movemeans that sometimes I am ableto catch life&#39;s most unpredictable moments,like here in New Yorkthe day after the Sandy storm hit the city.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:正好在三年前，我第一次来到委内瑞拉的加拉加斯当飞机飞过城市上方时，我很惊讶于这里的贫民窟已经遍布了城市的每个角落，一个百分之七十的居民生活在贫民窟里的地方，贫民窟满山遍野的搭建着在和当地的城市设计智库的谈话中，我了解到托雷·大卫一个45层高的办公楼，坐落在加拉加斯的中心。这个高楼一直在施工直到90年代初委内瑞拉经济大崩盘并且设计者去世。大概八年前，人们开始搬进被废弃的大楼里并开始在这个未完工的大楼的每个间隙里搭建他们自己的房子。整座大楼只有一个小小的入口，3000居民从这里通过这一个门进出。居住者合力建立了公共空间并设计德使这里多一点家的感觉少一点烂尾楼的感觉。在大堂，他们粉刷了墙面，种植了树他们还建了一个篮球场。但是当你近距离观察时，可以看到很多的洞，这是当初设计给电梯和其它的服务设施。
en:Just over three years ago,I was for the first time in Caracas, Venezuela,and while flying over the city, I was just amazedby the extent to which the slumsreach into every corner of the city,a place where nearly 70 percent of the populationlives in slums,draped literally all over the mountains.During a conversation with local architects Urban-Think Tank,I learned about the Torre David,a 45-story office building which sitsright in the center of Caracas.The building was under constructionuntil the collapse of the Venezuelan economyand the death of the developer in the early &#39;90s.About eight years ago, people started movinginto the abandoned towerand began to build their homes right in betweenevery column of this unfinished tower.There&#39;s only one little entrance to the entire building,and the 3,000 residents come in and outthrough that single door.Together, the inhabitants created public spacesand designed them to feel more like a homeand less like an unfinished tower.In the lobby, they painted the walls and planted trees.They also made a basketball court.But when you look up closely,you see massive holes where elevatorsand services would have run through.
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:在大楼里，人们想出了各种解决方案以应对不同的需求由于居住在这个烂尾楼里。由于没有电梯大楼像个45层的步行高楼。这群没有受过任何建筑和设计培训的居民以一种独特的方式设计了大楼的使用。而当每个居住者发现他们自己独特的生活居住方式时，这座大楼好像变成了一座居住的城市，一个伴随着微观的经济和小商户的地方。比如，这些有创造力的居住者在最不可思议的情况下发现机遇，比如毗邻的停车场被重新规划为一条出租车的路线搭载居民通过坡道以缩短到公寓的爬坡的距离。
en:Within the tower, people have come upwith all sorts of solutionsin response to the various needswhich arise from living in an unfinished tower.With no elevators,the tower is like a 45-story walkup.Designed in very specific waysby this group of peoplewho haven&#39;t had any education in architecture or design.And with each inhabitant finding their ownunique way of coming by,this tower becomes like a living city,a place which is alive with micro-economiesand small businesses.The inventive inhabitants, for instance,find opportunities in the most unexpected cases,like the adjacent parking garage,which has been reclaimed as a taxi routeto shuttle the inhabitants up through the rampsin order to shorten the hikeup to the apartments.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:穿过大楼的一路上展现了居民是如何想出怎么搭建墙体，怎么让空气流通，怎么让大楼更加透亮，大楼的循环系统，尤其是创造一个完全适应于周围环境的家园。当一个新的居住者搬进这座大楼，他们已经有一个可以遮盖的房顶，所以他们通常只是使用很小的窗帘和单子来突出他们的地方。慢慢地，从现成的材料，高墙，人们创造了一个从任何现成物体和材料搭建的空间。
en:A walk through the towerreveals how residents have figured outhow to create walls, how to make an air flow,how to create transparency,circulation throughout the tower,essentially creating a homethat&#39;s completely adaptedto the conditions of the site.When a new inhabitant moves into the tower,they already have a roof over their head,so they just typically mark their spacewith a few curtains or sheets.Slowly, from found materials, walls rise,and people create a space out of any found objectsor materials.
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:看到他们的设计规划决定很让人惊叹，例如当所有东西都是红砖建的时候，一些居民会在红砖墙外覆盖上另一层红砖样式的墙纸只为了让它看上去有干净的感觉。
en:It&#39;s remarkable to see the design decisionsthat they&#39;re making,like when everything is made out of red bricks,some residents will cover that red brickwith another layer of red brick-patterned wallpaperjust to make it a kind of clean finish.
时间： 5:11
zh-cn:这些居住者真的是用他们的双手来搭建自己的房子，这种充满着爱的劳动渗透出一种伟大的自豪感充盈在很多住在这儿的家庭里。他们特别是要尽最大可能利用他们周围的环境来让他们的生活空间更温馨，更有家的感觉，或者至少做到他们能尽的最大可能。在大楼里，你可以找到各种各样的服务，比如理发店，小铺子，每层都有小的食品杂货店和商店。你甚至可以找到一个教堂。并且在30层有一个健身房那里所有的器械和杠铃都是由剩下的滑轮制成的这些滑轮是从那些没有安装的电梯上拿来的。从外面，在这个不断变化的外墙后面，你可以看到固定的混凝土梁柱是如何为居民提供一个房屋框架以便让他们以一种有机而直观的方式去搭建他们的房子来直接应对他们的需求。
en:The inhabitants literally built up these homeswith their own hands, and this labor of loveinstills a great sense of pridein many families living in this tower.They typically make the best out of their conditions,and try to make their spaces look nice and homey,or at least up until as far as they can reach.Throughout the tower, you come acrossall kinds of services, like the barber,small factories, and every floor hasa little grocery store or shop.And you even find a church.And on the 30th floor, there is a gymwhere all the weights and barbellsare made out of the leftover pulleysfrom the elevators which were never installed.From the outside, behind this always-changing facade,you see how the fixed concrete beamsprovide a framework for the inhabitantsto create their homesin an organic, intuitive waythat responds directly to their needs.
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:让我们现在去看看非洲，尼日利亚，来到一个叫马卡卡的住宅区一个居住着15万人的贫民窟住在仅在拉各斯湖上面几米的地方。虽然它看上去好像是一个很混乱的地方，但当你从上往下看，那里好像存在一个由水路和运河形成的格子网连接着每家每户。从主码头，人们坐上长木做的小木舟带他们前往在很大一片区域里的各种房屋和商店当进入水域时，很明显生活已经完全融入这种特殊条件下的生活方式。甚至木筏子也变成各种各样的小店女人们划着木舟从一家到另一家，卖着从牙膏到新鲜水果的各种东西。在每一扇窗户和门框背后，你都会看到有小孩子在背后盯着你虽然马卡卡看上去到处都是人，但更让人吃惊的是实际上每座房屋里面拥有的孩子的数量。尼日利亚的人口增长，尤其是在像马卡卡这样的区域，痛苦地提醒着人们生育失控后带来的结果。
en:Let&#39;s go now to Africa, to Nigeria,to a community called Makoko,a slum where 150,000 peoplelive just meters above the Lagos Lagoon.While it may appear to be a completely chaotic place,when you see it from above, there seems to bea whole grid of waterways and canalsconnecting each and every home.From the main dock, people board long wooden canoeswhich carry them out to their various homes and shopslocated in the expansive area.When out on the water, it&#39;s clearthat life has been completely adaptedto this very specific way of living.Even the canoes become variety storeswhere ladies paddle from house to house,selling anything from toothpaste to fresh fruits.Behind every window and door frame,you&#39;ll see a small child peering back at you,and while Makoko seems to be packed with people,what&#39;s more shocking is actuallythe amount of children pouring out of every building.The population growth in Nigeria,and especially in these areas like Makoko,are painful remindersof how out of control things really are.
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:在马卡卡，只有非常少的生活系统和基础设施存在电是被垄断的，且干净的水来自于这片区域里自己建造的井。整个经济模式是为了应对特殊的水上生活方式而设计的所以捕鱼和造船是普遍的职业。这里还有一系列的商户在这片区域建立经营着自己的生意，比如理发店，CD和DVD商店，电影院，裁缝铺，和其它的一切。这是甚至有一个照相馆让你看到一种期望去住在真正的大房子里或者和一个遥远的地方产生联系，比如瑞典的旅馆。
en:In Makoko, very few systemsand infrastructures exist.Electricity is rigged and freshest watercomes from self-built wells throughout the area.This entire economic modelis designed to meet a specific way of livingon the water, so fishing and boat-makingare common professions.You&#39;ll have a set of entrepreneurswho have set up businesses throughout the area,like barbershops, CD and DVD stores,movie theaters, tailors, everything is there.There is even a photo studiowhere you see the sort of aspirationto live in a real house or to be associatedwith a faraway place, like that hotel in Sweden.
时间： 8:04
zh-cn:在这个特别的夜晚，我遇到这个穿着舞台表演衣服的现场演奏乐队。他们在河道里漂着坐在一个装了可发光的大船里，让所有居民欣赏他们的演出。
en:On this particular evening,I came across this live banddressed to the T in their coordinating outfits.They were floating through the canalsin a large canoe with a fitted-out generatorfor all of the community to enjoy.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:深夜降临后，这片区域变得漆黑一片，除了一些小的电灯或者火光。
en:By nightfall, the area becomes almost pitch black,save for a small lightbulbor a fire.
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:最初使我来到马卡卡的原因是一个我朋友的做的项目，昆里阿德耶米，它最近修建了一个漂在水上的三层学校给马卡卡这里的孩子们使用。由于整个村落都在水上，公共空间十分有限，所以现在学校建好了，底层就变成了孩子们的活动场所，但是当课上完了，整个平台就变成了一个小的城镇广场，渔民在那里补网划船卖东西的人们在那里停靠木船。
en:What originally brought me to Makokowas this project from a friend of mine,Kunlé Adeyemi, who recently finished buildingthis three-story floating schoolfor the kids in Makoko.With this entire village existing on the water,public space is very limited,so now that the school is finished,the ground floor is a playground for the kids,but when classes are out, the platformis just like a town square,where the fishermen mend their netsand floating shopkeepers dock their boats.
时间： 9:00
zh-cn:另一个我希望和你们分享的地方是在开罗的扎巴林。这里的居民是40年代从埃及上部的地区移居过来的农民的后代，今天他们靠着从全开罗居民家里收集和回收垃圾维生。很多年来，扎巴林的居民生活在临时的村落里他们可以随时移动以试图回避当地政府，但是在80年代初，他们在摩卡塔姆山区定居下来就在城市东边的边缘地区。今天，他们生活在这片区域，大约5万到7万人，住在自己建的多层房屋的社区里三代同堂。虽然这些他们建给自己的公寓看上去缺少规划或者正规的架构但每家都擅长收一种特殊的回收方式这意味着每个公寓的底层被预留给进行垃圾处理相关的工作上层是用于居住的空间。我很不可思议地看到这些成堆成堆的垃圾是如何能被住在这里的人们所忽视像这个正在端坐的有威望的长者他的后面却仿佛有大量垃圾要溢出，或者像这两位年轻人正坐着聊天在他们之间却有着成吨的垃圾。虽然对我们大部分人，生活在这些成堆成堆的垃圾中间可能似乎无法适应，但对那些生活在扎巴林的人来说，这只是一种与众不同的平常。在所有我今天说到的地方，我发现最有意思的是没有一种叫寻常的东西，这证明人们有能力适应各种生存环境。一天中，遇到一个正在街上进行的小型派对是非常正常的。就像这个订婚的派对在这种传统中，准新娘展示出她们要带给未来新丈夫的所有个人物品像这样的物品的堆放展示出一种东西放在一起的情形所有新的物品被展示出来而所有的垃圾被用作展示他们新家所有小装饰的道具。像马卡卡和托雷大卫一样，通过扎巴林你可以发现在任何典型的社区里都完全一样的设施。那里有零售店，咖啡厅和餐厅，并且这个社区是一个埃及基督徒社区，所以你也会发现一个教堂，以及大量的宗教图像贯穿于这片区域，还有日常的服务设施比如电器维修点，理发店，任何设施。
en:Another place I&#39;d like to share with youis the Zabbaleen in Cairo.They&#39;re descendants of farmers who began migratingfrom the upper Egypt in the &#39;40s,and today they make their livingby collecting and recycling waste from homesfrom all over Cairo.For years, the Zabbaleen would live in makeshift villageswhere they would move aroundtrying to avoid the local authorities,but in the early 1980s, they settledon the Mokattam rocksjust at the eastern edge of the city.Today, they live in this area,approximately 50,000 to 70,000 people,who live in this community of self-builtmulti-story houseswhere up to three generations live in one structure.While these apartments that they built for themselvesappear to lack any planning or formal grid,each family specializing in a certain form of recyclingmeans that the ground floor of each apartmentis reserved for garbage-related activitiesand the upper floor is dedicated to living space.I find it incredible to seehow these piles and piles of garbageare invisible to the people who live there,like this very distinguished man who is posingwhile all this garbage is sort of streaming out behind him,or like these two young men who are sittingand chatting amongst these tons of garbage.While to most of us, living amongstthese piles and piles of garbagemay seem totally uninhabitable,to those in the Zabbaleen, this is justa different type of normal.In all these places I&#39;ve talked about today,what I do find fascinating is that there&#39;s reallyno such thing as normal,and it proves that people are able to adaptto any kind of situation.Throughout the day, it&#39;s quite commonto come across a small party taking placein the streets, just like this engagement party.In this tradition, the bride-to-bedisplays all of their belongings,which they soon bring to their new husband.A gathering like this oneoffers such a juxtapositionwhere all the new stuff is displayedand all the garbage is usedas props to display all their new home accessories.Like Makoko and the Torre David,throughout the Zabbaleen you&#39;ll find allthe same facilities as in any typical neighborhood.There are the retail shops, the cafesand the restaurants, and the communityis this community of Coptic Christians,so you&#39;ll also find a church,along with the scores of religious iconographiesthroughout the area,and also all the everyday serviceslike the electronic repair shops,the barbers, everything.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:参观扎巴林的住家同样充满惊喜。虽然从外面看，这些房子看上去跟其他在城市里非常规结构的住宅没什么两样但当你走进去，你可以看到它所有设计的形式和内部装饰。虽然空间和资金都很有限，但这里房子的设计都十分体贴，注重细节。每个公寓都独一无二，这种个性告诉我们一个故事关于每家的情况和价值观念。他们很多人对待自己的家和内部空间十分认真，在细节方面花费大量时间和精力。公共区域也被用同样的态度对待，墙面由人造大理石装饰。
en:Visiting the homes of the Zabbaleenis also full of surprises.While from the outside,these homes look like any other informal structurein the city, when you step inside,you are met with all manner of design decisionsand interior decoration.Despite having limited access to space and money,the homes in the area are designedwith care and detail.Every apartment is unique,and this individuality tells a storyabout each family&#39;s circumstances and values.Many of these people take their homesand interior spaces very seriously,putting a lot of work and careinto the details.The shared spaces are also treated in the same manner,where walls are decorated in faux marble patterns.
时间：12:32
zh-cn:但是除了这些精致的装饰，这些公寓里有时候也会以一种与众不同的方式被使用。比如这个吸引我注意的房子很多泥土和杂草从前门渗了进去。当我进去的时候，这个五层楼的公寓好像被完全改造成一个农场，六七头牛站在里面吃草而这里本来应该是客厅。不过从这个牛棚穿过楼道的这个公寓住着一对新婚的夫妻这里被当地人形容为当地最好的一座公寓之一。
en:But despite this elaborate decor,sometimes these apartments are usedin very unexpected ways,like this home which caught my attentionwhile all the mud and the grass was literallyseeping out under the front door.When I was let in, it appeared that this fifth-floor apartmentwas being transformed into a complete animal farm,where six or seven cows stood grazingin what otherwise would be the living room.But then in the apartment across the hallfrom this cow shed lives a newly married couplein what locals describeas one of the nicest apartments in the area.
时间：13:18
zh-cn:公寓里对细节的注意使我震惊，并且当公寓的主人很自豪地让我在这个公寓里随便走动时从地板到屋顶，这里的每处都经过装点。但假如不是那让人无法忍受的持续穿过公寓的让人恶心的气味，你会非常容易忘记你正站在牛棚的隔壁和垃圾清理厂的上方。让我感动的是除了那些看上去不宜居的条件，我被非常热情地邀请进入一个充满爱，关怀和没有保留热情的家。
en:The attention to this detail astonished me,and as the owner of the home so proudlyled me around this apartment,from floor to ceiling, every part was decorated.But if it weren&#39;t for the strangely familiarstomach-churning odor that constantlypasses through the apartment,it would be easy to forgetthat you are standing next to a cow shedand on top of a landfill.What moved me the most was that despitethese seemingly inhospitable conditions,I was welcomed with open armsinto a home that was made with love, care,and unreserved passion.
时间：14:03
zh-cn:让我们跨越来到中国，来到一个叫陕西，河南和甘肃的区域。一个以柔软松散的黄土高原黄沙而闻名的地区，最新估计那里有四千万人住在地下的房屋里。这种住宅称为窑洞。通过这种往下建的建筑方式，这些窑洞真的是建在土地下面在这些村子里，你可以看到完全改变了的地貌，而在这些土丘背后藏着的是广场，长方形的房子坐落在地下7米的地方。当我问人们为什么要地上往下挖洞建房子时，他们只是很简单的告诉我，他们是种小麦和苹果的穷农民，没钱买材料，而这种挖窑洞是他们最符合逻辑的居住方式。
en:Let&#39;s move across the map to China,to an area called Shanxi, Henan and Gansu.In a region famous for the soft, porous Loess Plateau soil,there lived until recently an estimated40 million people in these houses underground.These dwellings are called the yaodongs.Through this architecture by subtraction,these yaodongs are built literally inside of the soil.In these villages, you see an entirely altered landscape,and hidden behind these mounds of dirtare these square, rectangular houseswhich sit seven meters below the ground.When I asked people why they were diggingtheir houses from the ground,they simply replied that they are poor wheatand apple farmers who didn&#39;t have the moneyto buy materials, and this digging outwas their most logical form of living.
时间：14:57
zh-cn:从马卡卡到扎巴林，这些社区解决了规划，设计的任务，并总结了一套管理社区和邻里的的方法，以一种特别针对他们的环境和实际情况的方式。由那些居住，工作，生活在这种特殊空间的人们创造而成，这些社区是由人们本能地设计来最大利用他们的生活环境。这些大多数地方，政府完全没有管理，因此让居民没有选择只能重新利用现成的材料，虽然这些社区的环境十分恶劣，他们却真的显示出一种杰出的创造力，证明我们确实有能力适应不同的生存环境。让像托雷大卫这样的地方尤其突出的就是这种框架建筑让人们可以有一个能够进入改造的基础。设想这些已经很有创造力的社区可以创造出什么，而他们的解决方案将有多么特别，假如他们拥有使他们可以进入的基本的设施。
en:From Makoko to Zabbaleen, these communitieshave approached the tasks of planning,design and management of their communitiesand neighborhoods in ways that respondspecifically to their environment and circumstances.Created by these very people who live,work and play in these particular spaces,these neighborhoods are intuitively designedto make the most of their circumstances.In most of these places, the governmentis completely absent, leaving inhabitantswith no choice but to reappropriate found materials,and while these communities are highly disadvantaged,they do present examplesof brilliant forms of ingenuity,and prove that indeed we have the abilityto adapt to all manner of circumstances.What makes places like the Torre Davidparticularly remarkableis this sort of skeleton frameworkwhere people can have a foundationwhere they can tap into.Now imagine what these already ingenious communitiescould create themselves,and how highly particular their solutions would be,if they were given the basic infrastructuresthat they could tap into.
时间：16:06
zh-cn:今天，你看到这些大型的房屋住宅建设工程给大量的人提供千篇一律的住房解决方案。从中国到巴西，这些工程试图提供给人们尽可能多的房子，但他们完全是大众化的，并且简单来说不是一个针对人们个体需求的解决方法。
en:Today, you see these large residential development projectswhich offer cookie-cutter housing solutionsto massive amounts of people.From China to Brazil, these projects attemptto provide as many houses as possible,but they&#39;re completely genericand simply do not work as an answerto the individual needs of the people.
时间：16:27
zh-cn:我想引用一句话来收尾它来自于我的一个朋友和一种期望，查塔·科巴出色的Shorefast基金会创始人，总部在纽芬兰的福戈岛。她说：”这里有一种名为‘相同’的瘟疫在杀死人类的快乐，&quot;而我非常赞同这句话。
en:I would like to end with a quotefrom a friend of mine and a source of inspiration,Zita Cobb, the founder of the wonderfulShorefast Foundation,based out of Fogo Island, Newfoundland.She says that &quot;there&#39;s this plague of samenesswhich is killing the human joy,&quot;and I couldn&#39;t agree with her more.
时间：16:47
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间：16:48
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
