时间： 0:11
zh-cn:说到传染病传染病仍然是全球人类生病和死亡的主因。每年，数以万计的人们死于肺结核、疟疾、以及艾滋病甚至在美国，每年都有成千上万的人因流感致命。
en:So infectious diseases, right?Infectious diseases are still the main causeof human suffering and death around the world.Every year, millions of people dieof diseases such as T.B., malaria, HIV,around the world and even in the United States.Every year, thousands of Americansdie of seasonal flu.
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:人类不是很有创意吗？我们想出不少办法保护自己，用药物和疫苗抵抗传染病。我们十分谨慎地总结经验得出创新的解决办法。我们以为只有人类才懂医学但是其实不然许多其他动物也有类似的机制最典型的是大猩猩和人类差不多它们会利用植物清理肠道寄生虫几十年的研究发现很多动物都会保护自己大象、豪猪、绵羊、山羊…数不胜数更有趣的是，最近的研究发现昆虫和其他小型生物也懂得医疗
en:Now of course, humans,we are creative. Right?We have come up with ways to protectourselves against these diseases.We have drugs and vaccines.And we&#39;re conscious —we learn from our experiencesand come up with creative solutions.We used to think we&#39;re alone in this,but now we know we&#39;re not.We&#39;re not the only medical doctors.Now we know that there&#39;s a lot of animalsout there that can do it too.Most famous, perhaps, chimpanzees.Not so much different from us,they can use plantsto treat their intestinal parasites.But the last few decades have shown usthat other animals can do it too:elephants, porcupines,sheep, goats, you name it.And even more interesting than thatis that recent discoveries are telling usthat insects and other little animals withsmaller brains can use medication too.
时间： 1:10
zh-cn:我们都知道传染病的病原体不断演化。我们过去开发的一些药物正在逐渐失效因此我们更需要不断开发新药物来应对不断变化的病原体。
en:The problem with infectious diseases,as we all know,is that pathogens continue to evolve,and a lot of the drugsthat we have developedare losing their efficacy.And therefore, there is this great needto find new ways to discover drugsthat we can use against our diseases.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:现在我们来研究一下这些动物看看从它们身上哪些是值得借鉴的作为生物学家，我研究了十年帝王斑蝶帝王斑蝶以它们壮观的迁徙而闻名每年不计其数的帝王斑蝶来到一起从美国和加拿大迁徙到墨西哥但这并非我研究它们的原因我研究它们是因为它们会生病就像在座的你我我认为我们可以从它们身上得到启发来开发适用于人类的药物
en:Now, I think that weshould look at these animals,and we can learn from themhow to treat our own diseases.As a biologist, I have been studyingmonarch butterflies for the last 10 years.Now, monarchs are extremely famousfor their spectacular migrationsfrom the U.S. and Canadadown to Mexico every year,where millions of them come together,but it&#39;s not why I started studying them.I study monarchs because they get sick.They get sick like you.They get sick like me.And I think what they docan tell us a lot about drugsthat we can develop for humans.
时间： 1:56
zh-cn:帝王斑蝶身上的寄生虫叫做ophryocystis elektroscirrha这些寄生虫在蝶身上引起大量的孢子可以从鳞片夹缝中看见这些细小的斑点它们威胁着帝王斑蝶的健康缩短了它们的寿命影响它们的飞行能力甚至导致它们还没成年就死亡。这种寄生虫非常致命。
en:Now, the parasitesthat monarchs get infected withare called ophryocystis elektroscirrha —a mouthful.What they do is they produce spores,millions of sporeson the outside of the butterflythat are shown as little specksin between the scales of the butterfly.And this is really detrimentalto the monarch.It shortens their lifespan,it reduces their ability to fly,it can even kill thembefore they&#39;re even adults.Very detrimental parasite.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:我工作时经常需要在温室里种植植物因为帝王斑蝶十分挑食它们只吃乳草的幼草幸好我找到了几种它们食用的乳草。这些乳草中含有卡烯內酯，是一种具有毒性的物质奇怪的是它对帝王斑蝶无害帝王斑蝶吸收了这种毒素携带这种毒素在体内用于对付诸如鸟类的天敌它们用身上鲜豔的黄黑白斑纹来广告自己的毒性。一种自然警告标志。
en:As part of my job, I spend a lot of timein the greenhouse growing plants,and the reason for this is that monarchsare extremely picky eaters.They only eat milkweed as larvae.Luckily, there are severalspecies of milkweed that they can use,and all these milkweedshave cardenolides in them.These are chemicals that are toxic.They&#39;re toxic to most animals,but not to monarchs.In fact, monarchscan take up the chemicals,put it in their own bodies,and it makes them toxicagainst their predators, such as birds.And what they do, then,is advertise this toxicitythrough their beautifulwarning colorationswith this orange, black and white.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:当我在温室善尽己责，种植不同乳草时，某些毒性很高，像是热带乳草，有大量的強心甾 (cardenolides)，某些却没有毒素。在我喂食帝王斑蝶时，某些斑蝶没有染病，很健康。某些斑蝶则生着病，我发现某些乳草有药效，有效减低帝王斑蝶的症状只要它们食用这些药草，就可以延长自己的性命。
en:So what I did during my jobis grow plants in the greenhouse,different ones, different milkweeds.Some were toxic, includingthe tropical milkweed,with very high concentrationsof these cardenolides.And some were not toxic.And then I fed them to monarchs.Some of the monarchs were healthy.They had no disease.But some of the monarchs were sick,and what I found is thatsome of these milkweeds are medicinal,meaning they reduce the disease symptomsin the monarch butterflies,meaning these monarchs can live longerwhen they are infectedwhen feeding on these medicinal plants.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:当我发现的时候，我有了一很多人觉得很疯狂的想法我想，如果帝王斑蝶可以应用呢？如果它们可以把这些乳草当作药物呢？如果它们可以为自己开药房呢？
en:And when I found this, I had this idea,and a lot of people saidit was a crazy idea,but I thought, what if monarchs can use this?What if they can use these plantsas their own form of medicine?What if they can act as medical doctors?
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:我们的团队开始实验，在第一类实验里，我们给幼虫两种选择：有药性的乳草和没有药性的乳草。然后测量它们一生各自吃了多少。就像大部分的科学研究结果一样，答案很无聊：有药性和没有药性的各半。这些幼虫没有为自己做出有利的选择。
en:So my team and Istarted doing experiments.In the first types of experiments,we had caterpillars,and gave them a choice:medicinal milkweed versusnon-medicinal milkweed.And then we measured how much they ateof each species over their lifetime.And the result, as so often in science, was boring:Fifty percent of their food was medicinal.Fifty percent was not.These caterpillars didn&#39;t doanything for their own welfare.
时间： 4:01
zh-cn:于是我们转为研究成蝶。我们想母蝶会对自己的幼虫用药吗？它们会把卵产在有药的乳草上，减轻幼虫的症状？我们复制这个实验多年，得到一样的结果。我们把帝王斑蝶放进大笼子里，一边的乳草是有药性的，一边没有，然后测量它们在两种乳草上的产卵数，获得的结果是一致的。我们发现帝王斑蝶偏好药性乳草。换句话说雌蝶把 68％ 的卵产在药性乳草上。事实上，在它们产卵的时候，也不可避免的传播了寄生虫。它们不能治疗自己。但这个实验告诉我们帝王斑蝶把卵产在有药性的乳草上，减轻幼虫的病况。
en:So then we moved on to adult butterflies,and we started asking the questionwhether it&#39;s the mothersthat can medicate their offspring.Can the mothers lay their eggson medicinal milkweedthat will make theirfuture offspring less sick?We have done these experiments nowover several years,and always get the same results.What we do is we puta monarch in a big cage,a medicinal plant on one side,a non-medicinal plant on the other side,and then we measure the number of eggsthat the monarchs lay on each plant.And what we find when we do thatis always the same.What we find is that the monarchsstrongly prefer the medicinal milkweed.In other words,what these females are doingis they&#39;re laying 68 percentof their eggs in the medicinal milkweed.Intriguingly, what they dois they actually transmit the parasiteswhen they&#39;re laying the eggs.They cannot prevent this.They can also not medicate themselves.But what these experiments tell usis that these monarchs, these mothers,can lay their eggs on medicinal milkweedthat will make theirfuture offspring less sick.
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:这个发现很重要。不只是因为它显示了大自然的奥妙，更提醒我们应该如何开发药物。这些动物都很小，我们曾经觉得它们构造单纯，它们的大脑很小，但它们却懂得利用自然药草。直至今日，我们从自然中提取药物，包括植物，在一些原始文化中，传统疗法时常借镜动物来找新药方。大象教我们如何治疗肠胃不适，刺猬教我们如何处理腹泻。我想，最重要的是，除了那些大脑发达的哺乳类动物外，我们也应该更加注重那些构造简单的动物、昆虫。发现这些动物懂得用药，让我们进入全新领域。也许有一天，我们会用蝴蝶找到的药物来治疗人类，我想这个机会是值得把握的。
en:Now, this is a reallyimportant discovery, I think,not just because it tells ussomething cool about nature,but also because it may tell us somethingmore about how we should find drugs.Now, these are animals that are very smalland we tend to think of themas very simple.They have tiny little brains,yet they can do thisvery sophisticated medication.Now, we know that even today,most of our drugsderive from natural products,including plants,and in indigenous cultures,traditional healers often lookat animals to find new drugs.In this way, elephants have told ushow to treat stomach upset,and porcupines have told peoplehow to treat bloody diarrhea.What I think is important, though, is to move beyondthese large-brained mammalsand give these guys more credit,these simple animals, these insectsthat we tend to think ofas very, very simplewith tiny little brains.The discovery that these animalscan also use medicationopens up completely new avenues,and I think that maybe one day,we will be treating human diseaseswith drugs that were firstdiscovered by butterflies,and I think that is an amazing opportunityworth pursuing.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:谢谢各位。
en:Thank you so much.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
