时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我的工作涉及电影和动画。同时我也是音乐工作者，一个经验丰富的DJ 。因此我对音乐电视一直很感兴趣。但音乐电视作品通常很老套。所以也许音乐电视想选择由音乐本身来自主创作。我尝试着给音乐话语权并配上动画我和另外两名设计师Christina以及Tolga在我的工作室里对一首歌进行了制作—你们当中也许很多人听过这首歌；这是首25年前的老歌，是由David Byrne 和 Brian Eno 演唱的—我们为它制作了动画。另外我认为这首歌有趣的地方在于它谈到了两个问题—上升的海平面和宗教。
en:I’m working a lot with motion and animation,and also I&#39;m an old DJ and a musician.So, music videos are something that I always found interesting,but they always seem to be so reactive.So I was thinking, can you remove us as creatorsand try to make the music be the voiceand have the animation following it?So with two designers, Tolga and Christina, at my office, we took a track —many of you probably know it. It’s about 25 years old,and it&#39;s David Byrne and Brian Eno —and we did this little animation.And I think that it&#39;s maybe interesting, also,that it deals with two problematic issues,which are rising waters and religion.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:（歌词：）上帝毁灭地球上的人类之前，预先通知 Noah（诺亚）造一艘方舟。Noah 造完方舟之后我相信上帝让 Noah 警告人类警告人类必须改变所有不道德的行为时限是在上帝降临人间来毁灭人类之前。Noah 建完方舟后，我知道有一首歌在被人传唱。我知到这首歌一直在被人传唱。Noah 建完方舟后...继续行进...他们很累，天黑了还下着雨；他们感到疲倦。来到了一个老妇人的家，敲了敲门。老妇人问：“是谁啊？”Jackson Lee Mama 说：“我们能在这借宿一夜吗？”“我们的家很远，现在我们累得走不动了。”老妇人说：“可以，进来吧。”天黑了还下着雨，你会被雨淋而且很疲惫。
en:Song: Before God destroyed the people on the Earth,he warned Noah to build an Ark.And after Noah built his Ark,I believe he told Noah to warn the peoplethat they must change all their wicked waysbefore he come upon them and destroy them.And when Noah had done built his Ark,I understand that somebody began to rend a song.And the song began to move on I understand like this.And when Noah had done built his Ark ...Move on ... In fact ... Concern ...So they get tired, has come dark and rain; they get weary and tired.And then he went and knocked an old lady house.And old lady ran to the door and say, &quot;Who is it?&quot;Jack say, &quot;Me, Mama-san, could we spend the night here?Because we’re far from home, we’re very tired.&quot;And the old lady said, &quot;Oh yes, come on in.&quot;It was come dark and rain, will make you weary and tired.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
