时间： 0:11
zh-cn:让我们一起浏览一下20 世纪的认知历史吧。因为在这个世纪里，我们的思想发生了极大的改变。大家都知道，1900 年人们所驾驶的汽车已经因为道路状况的改善和科技的进步而彻底改变了。我们的思想也改变了。我们已经从面对具象的世界来分析如何从中受益的人，变成面对非常复杂的世界的人。这个世界让我们需要有新的心理习惯、 新的思维习惯。其中包括面对这个具象我们需要分类需要抽象分析以保持逻辑上的一致。我们也需要做假设分析。就是说，我们想知道这世界的演变过程，而不仅仅是知道这世界现在是怎么样。
en:We are going to take a quick voyageover the cognitive history of the 20th century,because during that century,our minds have altered dramatically.As you all know, the cars that people drove in 1900have altered because the roads are betterand because of technology.And our minds have altered, too.We&#39;ve gone from people who confronted a concrete worldand analyzed that world primarily in termsof how much it would benefit themto people who confront a very complex world,and it&#39;s a world where we&#39;ve had to developnew mental habits, new habits of mind.And these include things likeclothing that concrete world with classification,introducing abstractions that we try to makelogically consistent,and also taking the hypothetical seriously,that is, wondering about what might have beenrather than what is.
时间： 1:10
zh-cn:这一重大变化引起了我的注意。人们的智商随时间的推移而不断增高，这种改变可以说是个剧变。就是说，我们不是只答对几个智商测试题。我们答对的智商测试题比我们之前的每一代答对得都多得多，甚至是追溯回智商测试刚发明的时代。事实上，如果你按照现代标准给一个世纪前的人们的智商打分，他们的平均智商只能达到70分。如果你按照他们那个时代的标准给我们打分，我们的平均智商会达到130分。当然这就会有很多问题出来了。我们的祖先是不是到了智力障碍的边缘？因为 70 分通常是智障的分数。还有，我们现代人算不算是天才呀?因为130分是天才的分割线。
en:Now, this dramatic change was drawn to my attentionthrough massive I.Q. gains over time,and these have been truly massive.That is, we don&#39;t just get a few more questions righton I.Q. tests.We get far more questions right on I.Q. teststhan each succeeding generationback to the time that they were invented.Indeed, if you score the people a century agoagainst modern norms,they would have an average I.Q. of 70.If you score us against their norms,we would have an average I.Q. of 130.Now this has raised all sorts of questions.Were our immediate ancestorson the verge of mental retardation?Because 70 is normally the score for mental retardation.Or are we on the verge of all being gifted?Because 130 is the cutting line for giftedness.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:现在我给你们讲讲第三种可能性。这种可能性比前面的两个提问会更有启发性。让我们换个角度，想象一个火星人来到地球并发现了一个被破坏的文明。恰好这个火星人是一个考古学家，他们发现了一些靶环，人们这个来计算射击分数。首先他们看到的是1865 年的，他们发现，在一分钟内，只有一颗子弹被射中了靶心。然后他们发现，在 1898 年，一分钟约有五发子弹被射中靶心。到了1918年的时候，就有100 颗子弹射中靶心了。最初，那（火星）考古学家会困惑。他们会说，你看，这些测试旨在测试人们的手法如何稳健，视力是如何敏锐，以及是否有对武器的控制力的。这些射击成绩怎么会提升得如此迅速？我们现在当然知道答案。而如果那火星人去看看战场，他们会找到在内战期间只带着步枪的战士；在美西战争期间用连发猎枪的战士；还有在一次世界大战期间用机关枪的战士。换句话说，是普通士兵手中的武器装备不同了，而不是视力够不够敏锐，或者手法够不够稳健。
en:Now I&#39;m going to try and argue for a third alternativethat&#39;s much more illuminating than either of those,and to put this into perspective,let&#39;s imagine that a Martian came down to Earthand found a ruined civilization.And this Martian was an archaeologist,and they found scores, target scores,that people had used for shooting.And first they looked at 1865,and they found that in a minute,people had only put one bullet in the bullseye.And then they found, in 1898,that they&#39;d put about five bullets in the bullseye in a minute.And then about 1918 they put a hundred bullets in the bullseye.And initially, that archaeologist would be baffled.They would say, look, these tests were designedto find out how much people were steady of hand,how keen their eyesight was,whether they had control of their weapon.How could these performances have escalatedto this enormous degree?Well we now know, of course, the answer.If that Martian looked at battlefields,they would find that people had only musketsat the time of the Civil Warand that they had repeating riflesat the time of the Spanish-American War,and then they had machine gunsby the time of World War I.And, in other words, it was the equipmentthat was in the hands of the average soldierthat was responsible, not greater keenness of eyeor steadiness of hand.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:现在我们应该理解这几百年来的心智上的飞跃。另一位思想家将帮助我们理解这一问题，他叫罗瑞亚。罗瑞亚早在进入科学时代之前就开始观察并发现人们往往拒绝对具象世界进行分类分析。他们想把这世界细分成他们可以从中受益的不同类别。他发现人们拒绝去推导假说，去猜测可能性。他发现人们不擅于抽象分析或逻辑思考。
en:Now what we have to imagine is the mental artillerythat we have picked up over those hundred years,and I think again that another thinker will help us here,and that&#39;s Luria.Luria looked at peoplejust before they entered the scientific age,and he found that these peoplewere resistant to classifying the concrete world.They wanted to break it upinto little bits that they could use.He found that they were resistantto deducing the hypothetical,to speculating about what might be,and he found finally that they didn&#39;t deal wellwith abstractions or using logic on those abstractions.
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:现在我给你们讲讲他的一些调研。他采访了俄罗斯农村的一位首领。在1900 年，人们大约受四年的学校教育。他问那位首领，乌鸦和鱼有什么共同点？那人说：&quot;绝对没有。你当然知道，我可以吃一条鱼，但我不能吃一只乌鸦。一只乌鸦可以啄食一条鱼。但一条鱼可对付不了乌鸦&quot;。罗瑞亚说，&quot;但这两者不都是动物吗?&quot;首领说，&quot;当然不是。其中一个是鱼。另外一个是鸟呀。这位首领真的对怎么利用这些具体的事物感兴趣。
en:Now let me give you a sample of some of his interviews.He talked to the head man of a personin rural Russia.They&#39;d only had, as people had in 1900,about four years of schooling.And he asked that particular person,what do crows and fish have in common?And the fellow said, &quot;Absolutely nothing.You know, I can eat a fish. I can&#39;t eat a crow.A crow can peck at a fish.A fish can&#39;t do anything to a crow.&quot;And Luria said, &quot;But aren&#39;t they both animals?&quot;And he said, &quot;Of course not.One&#39;s a fish.The other is a bird.&quot;And he was interested, effectively,in what he could do with those concrete objects.
时间： 5:09
zh-cn:罗瑞亚又去采访了另一个人。他对他们说，&quot;在德国没有骆驼。汉堡是德国的一个城市。那汉堡有骆驼吗?&quot;这个人回答道，&quot;嗯，如果德国足够大的话，那里就应该有骆驼。&quot;罗瑞亚说，&quot;可是我问的是汉堡呀？&quot;那人回答说，&quot;嗯，也许汉堡是一个小村庄，没有足够的地方留给骆驼呢&quot;。换句话说，他只愿意将这个问题当成一个具体的问题来回答。他习惯于骆驼是豢养在村庄里的，他自己真的无法假设德国真的就没有骆驼。
en:And then Luria went to another person,and he said to them,&quot;There are no camels in Germany.Hamburg is a city in Germany.Are there camels in Hamburg?&quot;And the fellow said,&quot;Well, if it&#39;s large enough, there ought to be camels there.&quot;And Luria said, &quot;But what do my words imply?&quot;And he said, &quot;Well, maybe it&#39;s a small village,and there&#39;s no room for camels.&quot;In other words, he was unwilling to treat thisas anything but a concrete problem,and he was used to camels being in villages,and he was quite unable to use the hypothetical,to ask himself what if there were no camels in Germany.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:第三次采访是有关北极的问题。罗瑞亚说，&quot;北极呢，总是有雪的。只要哪里一直有雪，那儿的熊就是白色的。那么在北极的熊是什么颜色?&quot;被采访者的回答是，&quot;这种事只能由证据来说话。如果一个智者从北极来告诉我熊是白色的我可能会相信他。但我见过的每一只熊都是棕色的呀。”这回你又看到，这个人也拒绝超越具象世界，拒绝通过平常的经验来分析。对那个人来说，重要的是熊是什么颜色 — —就是说，他们需要捕获这样的熊（来生存）。他们不愿意进一步分析。其中一个人对罗瑞亚说：&quot;我们怎么能解决不是真问题的问题呢？所有这些问题都不是真正的问题呀。我们怎么能知道呢?&quot;
en:A third interview was conductedwith someone about the North Pole.And Luria said, &quot;At the North Pole, there is always snow.Wherever there is always snow, the bears are white.What color are the bears at the North Pole?&quot;And the response was, &quot;Such a thingis to be settled by testimony.If a wise person came from the North Poleand told me the bears were white,I might believe him,but every bear that I have seen is a brown bear.&quot;Now you see again, this person has rejectedgoing beyond the concrete worldand analyzing it through everyday experience,and it was important to that personwhat color bears were —that is, they had to hunt bears.They weren&#39;t willing to engage in this.One of them said to Luria,&quot;How can we solve things that aren&#39;t real problems?None of these problems are real.How can we address them?&quot;
时间： 6:50
zh-cn:现在，有三种分析方法— —分类分析，使用抽象逻辑，和认真假设 — —这些分析方法对认识采访室以外的世界会有影响吗？让我给你几个例子。
en:Now, these three categories —classification,using logic on abstractions,taking the hypothetical seriously —how much difference do they make in the real worldbeyond the testing room?And let me give you a few illustrations.
时间： 7:07
zh-cn:第一，今天在场的几乎所有人都有高中毕业文凭。就是说，我们已经从4至8年的教育进步到 12 年的正规教育，52%的美国人接受了专科以上的高等教育。现在，我们不仅接受更多的教育，而且接受更多科学知识的教育。不会对世界进行分类分析就不能搞科研；提不出假说也不能搞科研；没有逻辑上的一致性也没法搞科研。甚至在小学阶段，分析问题的方法也已经发生了变化。人们研究1910 年的俄亥俄州针对 14 岁儿童的考题。他们发现考题全部是针对具体事物的社会价值的。考试的内容是这样的，当时的44 或 45 州的首府是什么？而他们研究的1990 年俄亥俄州的考题则全部是些抽象问题。比如说，为什么是一个州的最大城市往往不是首府？你可能会想，嗯，国家立法机关由农村控制的，他们不喜欢大城市所以比起在大城市建首府，他们更愿意把它放在小镇。他们把首府建在奥尔巴尼，而不是纽约。他们把首府建在哈里斯堡，而不是费城。等等。所以说，教育的进程已经改变。我们正教育人们要认真地假设，要使用抽象思维，然后把它和逻辑思维结合起来。
en:First, almost all of us today get a high school diploma.That is, we&#39;ve gone from four to eight years of educationto 12 years of formal education,and 52 percent of Americanshave actually experienced some type of tertiary education.Now, not only do we have much more education,and much of that education is scientific,and you can&#39;t do science without classifying the world.You can&#39;t do science without proposing hypotheses.You can&#39;t do science without making it logically consistent.And even down in grade school, things have changed.In 1910, they looked at the examinationsthat the state of Ohio gave to 14-year-olds,and they found that they were allfor socially valued concrete information.They were things like,what are the capitals of the 44 or 45 statesthat existed at that time?When they looked at the examsthat the state of Ohio gave in 1990,they were all about abstractions.They were things like,why is the largest city of a state rarely the capital?And you were supposed to think, well,the state legislature was rural-controlled,and they hated the big city,so rather than putting the capital in a big city,they put it in a county seat.They put it in Albany rather than New York.They put it in Harrisburg rather than Philadelphia.And so forth.So the tenor of education has changed.We are educating people to take the hypothetical seriously,to use abstractions, and to link them logically.
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:那么就业情况呢？在 1900 年，美国人中只有3%是专业从业者。只有3％的人是律师、医生和教师。而今天，35%的美国人是专业从业者。不仅有像律师这样的专门职业，或者医生，科学家，讲师，而且有很多很多细分的专业需要技术员，计算机程序员来做。一系列的专业产生了一系列的专业需求。在现代社会，我们只能满足某专业的就业条款，而我们对知识的掌握却灵活机动得多。这并不只是说我们有更多的人从事有专业技能的职业。这些专业行业本身也已经升级换代。我们比较一下，1900 年只会几手的医生和现代社会的医生和医学专家。后者受过多年的科学培训。再比较一下，1900 年只需要是一个好会计的银行家他们只需要知道当地社区谁是值得信赖的人然后帮他们抵押贷款。那么现在呢，整个世界都得臣服于银行家的脚下。他们在道义上可能有所欠缺，可是他们的专业技能却异常地敏锐。现代银行家远远超出了1900年的银行家。他们需要懂得房屋市场的计算机预算。他们需要获得复杂的债务抵押债券然后将所有的债务捆绑在一起让客户觉得债务是一项有利可图的投资。他们需要向评级机构申请获得3A级信用度（企业信用的最高等级）。虽然在很多情况下，他们大多贿赂评级机构。当然，他们还要让客户接受所谓的“资产”，为他们付钱，即使知道客户其实是蒙受很大损失的。拿现在的农夫为例。我觉得现在的农场主与1900年的农夫相比非常不一样。虽然这个职业还没有被归类为专业从业者，但这个职业也升级成为像律师、 医生之类需要专业知识的从业者。
en:What about employment?Well, in 1900, three percent of Americanspracticed professions that were cognitively demanding.Only three percent were lawyers or doctors or teachers.Today, 35 percent of Americanspractice cognitively demanding professions,not only to the professions proper like lawyeror doctor or scientist or lecturer,but many, many sub-professionshaving to do with being a technician,a computer programmer.A whole range of professions now make cognitive demands.And we can only meet the terms of employmentin the modern world by being cognitivelyfar more flexible.And it&#39;s not just that we have many more peoplein cognitively demanding professions.The professions have been upgraded.Compare the doctor in 1900,who really had only a few tricks up his sleeve,with the modern general practitioner or specialist,with years of scientific training.Compare the banker in 1900,who really just needed a good accountantand to know who was trustworthy in the local communityfor paying back their mortgage.Well, the merchant bankers who brought the world to their kneesmay have been morally remiss,but they were cognitively very agile.They went far beyond that 1900 banker.They had to look at computer projectionsfor the housing market.They had to get complicated CDO-squaredin order to bundle debt togetherand make debt look as if it were actually a profitable asset.They had to prepare a case to get rating agenciesto give it a AAA,though in many cases, they had virtually bribed the rating agencies.And they also, of course, had to get peopleto accept these so-called assetsand pay money for themeven though they were highly vulnerable.Or take a farmer today.I take the farm manager of today as very differentfrom the farmer of 1900.So it hasn&#39;t just been the spreadof cognitively demanding professions.It&#39;s also been the upgrading of taskslike lawyer and doctor and what have youthat have made demands on our cognitive faculties.
时间：11:04
zh-cn:我上面已经谈及教育和就业方面的例子。我们在20世纪养成的一些思维习惯已经在意想不到的领域收益颇丰。我是一个道德哲学家，对心理学不感兴趣。一般吸引我的话题都是道德辩论。自上一世纪开始，在和美国一样的发达国家，道德辩论有大幅增加的趋势。因为我们认真地做出假设，我们也认真地对待事物的共性，并找出合乎逻辑的共同处。马丁路德金时代的1955年当我从大学回到家。那时有很多学生都从学校回家与他们的父母和祖父母进行辩论。我的父亲出生于 1885 年，他有轻度种族偏见。作为一个爱尔兰人，他十分讨厌英国。而对其他人没有什么讨厌的想法。（笑声）但他确实觉得黑人是劣等的。当我们问我们的父母和祖父母，&quot;如果明早一起床你发现自己是黑人了你会怎么想?&quot;他们说，这就是你说过的最愚蠢的话。你见过谁一早上醒来－（笑声）-就一下子变成黑人了？
en:But I&#39;ve talked about education and employment.Some of the habits of mind that we have developedover the 20th centuryhave paid off in unexpected areas.I&#39;m primarily a moral philosopher.I merely have a holiday in psychology,and what interests me in general is moral debate.Now over the last century,in developed nations like America,moral debate has escalatedbecause we take the hypothetical seriously,and we also take universals seriouslyand look for logical connections.When I came home in 1955 from universityat the time of Martin Luther King,a lot of people came home at that timeand started having arguments with their parents and grandparents.My father was born in 1885,and he was mildly racially biased.As an Irishman, he hated the English so muchhe didn&#39;t have much emotion for anyone else.(Laughter)But he did have a sense that black people were inferior.And when we said to our parents and grandparents,&quot;How would you feel if tomorrow morning you woke up black?&quot;they said that is the dumbest thing you&#39;ve ever said.Who have you ever known who woke up in the morning —(Laughter) —that turned black?
时间：12:29
zh-cn:换句话说，他们固执于一些具体的习俗和固有的态度上。他们不会认真地假设。可是没有假设，就很难把道德上的争论进行下去。那你要说了，试想你在伊朗，试想你的亲戚所遭受的摧残其实他们什么都没做错。你会怎么想？老一辈的人会回答说，嗯，我们的政府关照我们，他们的政府关照他们。他们真的不愿意认真地对待假设。还有一个例子，一个伊斯兰的父亲，他的女儿被强奸了，他会觉得自己有权杀了她。是的，他就是在按照习俗办事，这些习俗就像他所继承的石头和棍子一样，是很难被改变的。他们只是机械地继承习俗。今天我们会说，嗯，想象一下你被撞昏迷或被摧残了。你就该被杀吗?他会说，古兰经没有记载那些东西，那不是我信奉的信条之一。那么今天，你应该把信条广义化。用抽象思维来说明它，用逻辑思维来实践它。如果你有一项信条是，除非有罪，人就不应该被摧残。然后再排除黑人。你是不是一定要弄出个例外来？你不得不说，嗯，肤色黑，你不能只是为肤色黑就该受苦。一定是是黑人某些方面是脏的坏的。然后我们需要举出实例来，我们能吗？那么，你怎么可以觉得所有黑人都是脏的坏的呢？圣奥古斯汀是黑人和托马斯·索威尔是黑人。你无法在道德辩论中取胜，因为你不再把道德原则当做具体的个例，你把这些原则广义化，让这些原则符合逻辑。
en:In other words, they were fixed in the concretemores and attitudes they had inherited.They would not take the hypothetical seriously,and without the hypothetical,it&#39;s very difficult to get moral argument off the ground.You have to say, imagine you werein Iran, and imagine that your relativesall suffered from collateral damageeven though they had done no wrong.How would you feel about that?And if someone of the older generation says,well, our government takes care of us,and it&#39;s up to their government to take care of them,they&#39;re just not willing to take the hypothetical seriously.Or take an Islamic father whose daughter has been raped,and he feels he&#39;s honor-bound to kill her.Well, he&#39;s treating his moresas if they were sticks and stones and rocks that he had inherited,and they&#39;re unmovable in any way by logic.They&#39;re just inherited mores.Today we would say something like,well, imagine you were knocked unconscious and sodomized.Would you deserve to be killed?And he would say, well that&#39;s not in the Koran.That&#39;s not one of the principles I&#39;ve got.Well you, today, universalize your principles.You state them as abstractions and you use logic on them.If you have a principle such as,people shouldn&#39;t suffer unless they&#39;re guilty of something,then to exclude black peopleyou&#39;ve got to make exceptions, don&#39;t you?You have to say, well, blackness of skin,you couldn&#39;t suffer just for that.It must be that blacks are somehow tainted.And then we can bring empirical evidence to bear, can&#39;t we,and say, well how can you consider all blacks taintedwhen St. Augustine was black and Thomas Sowell is black.And you can get moral argument off the ground, then,because you&#39;re not treating moral principles as concrete entities.You&#39;re treating them as universals,to be rendered consistent by logic.
时间：14:32
zh-cn:那么，这一切都是如何提高我们的智商的呢？这就是为什么我一开始就痴迷研究认知历史。看看智商测试，你会发现它在某种特定领域中得到极大的提高。相似还有韦氏子测试，那是关于分类分析的。在分类分析的测试终，我们也取得了巨大的进步。智商测试的其他部分是关于对抽象事物运用逻辑思维的。你们中也许有人已经做过瑞文渐进矩阵，是关于类比分析的。在 1900 年，人们能做简单的类比分析。也就是说，如果你对他们说，猫是象野猫一样。那狗像什么？他们会说象狼。但到 1960 年，人们可以在瑞文渐进矩阵上更进一步。如果你说，我们有两个正方形在一个三角形后面，那两个圆后面跟着什么？他们会说是一个半圆。就象说三角形是一个正方形的一半一样，半圆是一个圆形的一半。到 2010 年，如果你问大学毕业生，两个圆排在一个半圆之后，两个十六岁跟在什么之后呢？他们说8，因为8是 16 的一半。这就是，他们已经可以脱离具象世界更深远地思考问题了。他们甚至可以忽略智商题中那些符号的外观。
en:Now how did all of this arise out of I.Q. tests?That&#39;s what initially got me going on cognitive history.If you look at the I.Q. test,you find the gains have been greatest in certain areas.The similarities subtest of the Wechsleris about classification,and we have made enormous gainson that classification subtest.There are other parts of the I.Q. test batterythat are about using logic on abstractions.Some of you may have taken Raven&#39;s Progressive Matrices,and it&#39;s all about analogies.And in 1900, people could do simple analogies.That is, if you said to them, cats are like wildcats.What are dogs like?They would say wolves.But by 1960, people could attack Raven&#39;son a much more sophisticated level.If you said, we&#39;ve got two squares followed by a triangle,what follows two circles?They could say a semicircle.Just as a triangle is half of a square,a semicircle is half of a circle.By 2010, college graduates, if you saidtwo circles followed by a semicircle,two sixteens followed by what,they would say eight, because eight is half of 16.That is, they had moved so far from the concrete worldthat they could even ignorethe appearance of the symbols that were involved in the question.
时间：16:02
zh-cn:但现在我还应该说一件非常令人沮丧的事。那就是我们还没有在所有的方面上都取得进步。处理现代社会复杂问题的方法之一，就是通过政治。可悲的是，你可以有人性的道德原则，你可以分类分析，你可以在抽象问题上运用逻辑，如果你是无视历史和其他国家，你就不能搞好政治活动。我们注意到，年轻的美国人有这样一个趋势，他们很少读历史和文学更不要提外国的历史和文学。这些年轻人基本上与历史无关。他们活在当下的泡沫里。他们不知道朝鲜战争也不知道越南战争。他们不知道谁是第二次世界大战中的美国盟友。想象一下，美国会将是如何的不同吧。如果每个美国人都知道这已经是第五次西方军队进驻阿富汗了，如果每个美国人都知道前面的四次都发生了什么。（笑声）但是，他们（美国的年轻人）几乎从来没有离开他们生活的小圈子。再想象一下，事情会如何不同吧！如果大多数美国人都知道我们一直被欺骗着参加了六场战争中的四场。你知道吗？西班牙没有击沉缅因战舰，卢西塔尼亚号也不是无辜的。它载满武器弹药。北越没有根本攻击第七舰队，并且，当然，萨达姆 · 侯赛因痛恨基地组织，跟他们一点儿关系也没有。然而，政府当局却能让45%的美国人相信萨达姆和基地组织关系紧密。这样他（领导者）就找到了理由（去打仗）。
en:Now, I should say one thing that&#39;s very disheartening.We haven&#39;t made progress on all fronts.One of the ways in which we would like to dealwith the sophistication of the modern worldis through politics,and sadly you can have humane moral principles,you can classify, you can use logic on abstractions,and if you&#39;re ignorant of history and of other countries,you can&#39;t do politics.We&#39;ve noticed, in a trend among young Americans,that they read less history and less literatureand less material about foreign lands,and they&#39;re essentially ahistorical.They live in the bubble of the present.They don&#39;t know the Korean War from the war in Vietnam.They don&#39;t know who was an ally of America in World War II.Think how different America would beif every American knew that this is the fifth timeWestern armies have gone to Afghanistan to put its house in order,and if they had some idea of exactly what had happenedon those four previous occasions.(Laughter)And that is, they had barely left,and there wasn&#39;t a trace in the sand.Or imagine how different things would beif most Americans knew that we had been liedinto four of our last six wars.You know, the Spanish didn&#39;t sink the battleship Maine,the Lusitania was not an innocent vesselbut was loaded with munitions,the North Vietnamese did not attack the Seventh Fleet,and, of course, Saddam Hussein hated al Qaedaand had nothing to do with it,and yet the administration convinced 45 percent of the peoplethat they were brothers in arms,when he would hang one from the nearest lamppost.
时间：17:44
zh-cn:但，我不想用悲观的基调做结语。在20 世纪，我们普通人呈现出巨大认知潜力。我们自己已经充分认识到这一点。以往的贵族相信普通人永远不会拥有象他们那样的思维和认知能力。柯曾爵士曾经说过：他看见人们在北海沐浴，他问，&quot;为什么没有人告诉我白人怎么这么没有秩序?就好像他们是爬虫。”其实呢，狄更斯是对和他是错的。[更正： 拉迪亚德 · 吉卜林][吉卜林] 说：&quot;上校的夫人和茱蒂奥格雷迪在皮肤以下是姐妹呢&quot;。
en:But I don&#39;t want to end on a pessimistic note.The 20th century has shown enormous cognitive reservesin ordinary people that we have now realized,and the aristocracy was convincedthat the average person couldn&#39;t make it,that they could never share their mindsetor their cognitive abilities.Lord Curzon once saidhe saw people bathing in the North Sea,and he said, &quot;Why did no one tell mewhat white bodies the lower orders have?&quot;As if they were a reptile.Well, Dickens was right and he was wrong. [Correction: Rudyard Kipling][Kipling] said, &quot;The colonel&#39;s lady and Judy O&#39;Gradyare sisters underneath the skin.&quot;
时间：18:27
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
