时间： 0:11
zh-cn:很多时候，艺术和科学隔着一条不可逾越的鸿沟注视着对方。当它俩互视时彼此存在着巨大的困惑。艺术，当然，通过心灵、情感—甚至有时侯潜意识—还有审美观来观察世界。科学趋向于通过理智、数量—可以测量和描述的事物—来观察世界，但是它提供给艺术一个很棒的（知识和）认知环境。
en:Most of the time, art and science stare at each otheracross a gulf of mutual incomprehension.There is great confusion when the two look at each other.Art, of course, looks at the world through the psyche,the emotions — the unconscious at times — and of course the aesthetic.Science tends to look at the world through the rational, the quantitative —things that can be measured and described —but it gives art a terrific context of understanding.
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:在“极端冰层调查”中，我们致力于把人类认知的这两部分结合在一起，把艺术和科学融合最后来帮助我们更好地了解自然和人类的关系。特别作为一个当了大半辈子专业自然摄影师的人，我坚信照片，视频和电影有着很强大的力量来帮助我们了解，并塑造大家对自然的思考以及自身与自然关系。
en:In the Extreme Ice Survey,we&#39;re dedicated to bringing those two parts of human understanding together,to merging the art and scienceto the end of helping us understand natureand humanity&#39;s relationship with nature better.Specifically, I as a personwho&#39;s been a professional nature photographer my whole adult life,am firmly of the belief that photography, video, filmhave tremendous powers for helping us understandand shape the way we think about natureand about ourselves in relationship to nature.
时间： 1:21
zh-cn:在这个项目中，我们特别感兴趣的，当然，是冰层。我着迷于它的美丽，它的变化无常，它的柔韧，以及它可以自我雕刻出来的绝妙形态。第一批影像来自于格陵兰岛。但是冰层有另一层意义。冰层是全球气候的预兆（“煤矿上的金丝雀”意思是未来的预兆，到二十世纪采矿公司还常利用金丝雀异常反应来探测矿内煤气的浓度）。在这里我们可以看到、摸到、听到并确切感受到正在发生的气候变化。
en:In this project, we&#39;re specifically interested, of course, in ice.I&#39;m fascinated by the beauty of it, the mutability of it,the malleability of it,and the fabulous shapes in which it can carve itself.These first images are from Greenland.But ice has another meaning.Ice is the canary in the global coal mine.It&#39;s the place where we can see and touch and hear and feel climate change in action.
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:在世界大多数地方气候变化是很抽象的。不管你是否相信它是基于你的感觉不管是雨下得多了还是下得少了，不管天气变热了还是变冷了。或者基于一些计算机模型的结论，还有一些其它的测量。所有那些，都不要管了。在北极和阿尔卑斯的冰冻环境中，在冰层存在的地方，[气候变化]是真实的，是存在的。多个变化正在发生。它们是显而易见的。它们是能拍摄出来的。它们是能测量的出来的。
en:Climate change is a really abstract thing in most of the world.Whether or not you believe in it is based on your sense ofis it raining more or is it raining less?Is it getting hotter or is it getting colder?What do the computer models say about this, that and the other thing?All of that, strip it away. In the world of the arctic and alpine environments,where the ice is, it&#39;s real and it&#39;s present.The changes are happening. They&#39;re very visible.They&#39;re photographable. They&#39;re measurable.
时间： 2:16
zh-cn:世界百分之九十五的冰川正在消退和萎缩，那是在南极外面。世界百分之九十五的冰川正在消退和萎缩，因为降雨模式和温度模式正在变化。科学上对此没有任何的异议。已经被观察到的，测量出来的，都是雷打不动的信息。我们这个时代的巨大的讽刺和悲剧是很多公众认为科学对气候变化还有争论。科学上没有对其争论。在这些图像里我们看到巨型冰川上的冰，有着千百年历史的冰原碎裂成一块又一块，一座又一座的冰山，变成了全球升高的海平面。
en:95 percent of the glaciers in the world are retreating or shrinking.That&#39;s outside Antarctica.95 percent of the glaciers in the world are retreating or shrinking,and that&#39;s because the precipitation patterns and the temperature patterns are changing.There is no significant scientific dispute about that.It&#39;s been observed, it&#39;s measured, it&#39;s bomb-proof information.And the great irony and tragedy of our timeis that a lot of the general public thinks that science is still arguing about that.Science is not arguing about that.In these images we see ice from enormous glaciers,ice sheets that are hundreds of thousands of years oldbreaking up into chunks, and chunk by chunk by chunk,iceberg by iceberg, turning into global sea level rise.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:所以，在30年的职业生涯中见识了这些之后，我还是对气候变化执怀疑态度，直到大概十年前，因为我以前觉得气候变化的故事是建立在计算机模型基础上的。我曾没有没意识到它是基于坚实的历史气候测量数据—古代的气候—这些数据记录在冰原里，记录在深海沉积岩里，记录在湖底沉积岩里，树木年轮里，还有很多其他的温度测量方法里。
en:So, having seen all of this in the course of a 30-year career,I was still a skeptic about climate change until about 10 years ago,because I thought the story of climate change was based on computer models.I hadn&#39;t realized it was based on concrete measurementsof what the paleoclimates — the ancient climates — were,as recorded in the ice sheets, as recorded in deep ocean sediments,as recorded in lake sediments, tree rings,and a lot of other ways of measuring temperature.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:当我认识到气候变化是真实的，它不是建立在计算机模型上时，我决定总有一天我要做一个项目就是试着用摄影来表现气候的变化。然后我被引到了这个项目上。开始的时候，我在做《国家地理》的任务，传统的，单画面，只是拍照。有一天突发奇想，我想到我应该-在那个任务完成之后-我想到我应该拍摄定时照片，我应该安扎一台摄像机，或者两台，对准一个冰川让它每15分钟拍一次，或者每一个小时，或者其他并观察地貌随时间的变化。
en:When I realized that climate change was real, and it was not based on computer models,I decided that one day I would do a projectlooking at trying to manifest climate change photographically.And that led me to this project.Initially, I was working on a National Geographic assignment —conventional, single frame, still photography.And one crazy day, I got the idea that I should —after that assignment was finished —I got the idea that I should shoot in time-lapse photography,that I should station a camera or two at a glacierand let it shoot every 15 minutes, or every hour or whateverand watch the progression of the landscape over time.
时间： 4:11
zh-cn:最后，三个星期不到，我不小心把想法从两台摄相机变成了25台定时拍摄相机。接下来的6个月是我职业生涯中最艰难的时候，努力设计，制作和在野外部署这25台定时拍摄相机。它们用的是太阳能。太阳能板给它们能量。能量充进电池。那有一台定制的计算机会告诉相机什么时候开拍这些相机安放在冰川边的岩石上，并且它们从稳定的岩床位置观望冰川，同时它们能看到地貌的不断演变。我们刚在格陵兰冰原上放出了一些摄相机。过去的一个半月左右时间，我们其实在冰层上凿洞，一直凿到融化层以下然后把相机放置在那儿。其实，现在在那儿还有一台摄相机。任何情况下，相机大概每一个小时，每半个小时，每十五分钟，每五分钟拍一次。
en:Well, within about three weeks,I incautiously turned that idea of a couple of time-lapse camerasinto 25 time-lapse cameras.And the next six months of my life were the hardest time in my career,trying to design, build and deploy out in the field these 25 time-lapse cameras.They are powered by the sun. Solar panels power them.Power goes into a battery. There is a custom made computerthat tells the camera when to fire.And these cameras are positioned on rocks on the sides of the glaciers,and they look in on the glacier from permanent, bedrock positions,and they watch the evolution of the landscape.We just had a number of cameras out on the Greenland Ice Sheet.We actually drilled holes into the ice, way deep down below the thawing level,and had some cameras out there for the past month and a half or so.Actually, there&#39;s still a camera out there right now.In any case, the cameras shoot roughly every hour.Some of them shoot every half hour, every 15 minutes, every five minutes.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:这是定时拍摄怎样制作一台定时拍摄相机。（笑声）我个人疯狂对这些事务中的每个螺母，螺帽和垫圈都很着迷。我一半的时间花在了当地的五金店里在过去的几个月的时间中我们原创了这些部件。
en:Here&#39;s a time lapse of one of the time-lapse units being made.(Laughter)I personally obsessed about every nut, bolt and washer in these crazy things.I spent half my life at our local hardware storeduring the months when we built these units originally.
时间： 5:26
zh-cn:我们对大部分北半球的主要冰川覆盖地区做研究。我们的定时拍摄机组在阿拉斯加，洛基山脉，格陵兰岛和冰岛，并且我们会重复的拍摄一些地点，也就是我们每年都去的地方，在不列颠哥伦比亚省（加拿大），阿尔卑斯山，和玻利维亚。
en:We&#39;re working in most of the major glaciated regions of the northern hemisphere.Our time-lapse units are in Alaska, the Rockies, Greenland and Iceland,and we have repeat photography positions,that is places we just visit on an annual basis,in British Columbia, the Alps and Bolivia.
时间： 5:44
zh-cn:这是一项艰巨的工作。我今晚站在你们面前代表的是我们整个团队。此时有很多人在这个项目上工作。此刻我们有33台摄相机在外面。大概半小时之前我们拍了33张照跨越整个北半球，观察发生了什么。我们在野外花了很多时间。完成的工作量是惊人的。我们出去已经有两年半了，而且我们大概还要两年半的工作要做。
en:It&#39;s a big undertaking. I stand here before you tonightas an ambassador for my whole team.There&#39;s a lot of people working on this right now.We&#39;ve got 33 cameras out this moment.We just had 33 cameras shoot about half an hour agoall across the northern hemisphere, watching what&#39;s happened.And we&#39;ve spent a lot of time in the field. It&#39;s been a fantastic amount of work.We&#39;ve been out for two and a half years,and we&#39;ve got about another two and a half years yet to go.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:那也只是我们一半的工作。还有另一半工作是向全球的公众讲述这个故事。你知道，科学家们这些年断断续续地搜集了此类信息，但很多信息却保留在了科学圈内。相似地，很多艺术项目也只保留在艺术圈内，我感觉有很大的责任通过像TED这样的机制，通过像我们和奥巴马政府，和参议院，和John Kerry办公室的这些关系来影响政策通过这些照片影响越多越好。我们拍了电影。我们出了书。我们还有更多的要做。我们在Google Earth上有一个站点Google Earth非常慷慨地为我们提供—所有这些都是因为我们觉得急需讲述这个故事，因为它是当下持续气候变化立竿见影的证据。
en:That&#39;s only half our job.The other half of our job is to tell the story to the global public.You know, scientists have collected this kind of informationoff and on over the years, but a lot of it stays within the science community.Similarly, a lot of art projects stay in the art community,and I feel very much a responsibility through mechanisms like TED,and like our relationship with the Obama White House,with the Senate, with John Kerry, to influence policyas much as possible with these pictures as well.We&#39;ve done films. We&#39;ve done books. We have more coming.We have a site on Google Earththat Google Earth was generous enough to give us,and so forth, because we feel very much the need to tell this story,because it is such an immediate evidence of ongoing climate change right now.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:现在，我们在看图片之前先讲点科学。如果每个发达国家的人都理解这张图表，而且把它牢牢印记在脑海里的话，这个社会就不会有更多关于气候变化的争论了。因为这才是一个有意义的故事。你听到的其他任何事都只是鼓吹和混淆视听。重点问题：这是一个400，000年的记录结果。我们可以看到跟以往大概一百万年前的走势是完全一样的。而且有几件事很重要。
en:Now, one bit of science before we get into the visuals.If everybody in the developed world understood this graph,and emblazoned it on the inside of their foreheads,there would be no further societal argument about climate changebecause this is the story that counts.Everything else you hear is just propaganda and confusion.Key issues: this is a 400,000 year record.This exact same pattern is seen going back nowalmost a million years before our current time.And several things are important.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:第一：温度和大气的二氧化碳含量同步上升和下降。你可以从橙色和蓝色线中看出来。自然允许了二氧化碳自然上升到280ppm（ppm是百万分比浓度单位）那是一个自然周期。上升到280ppm然后下降它由很多原因引起，但对今天的讨论不重要。但280是顶点。现在，来看一下图表的右上部分，我们处于385ppm。我们已经远远超出了正常的，自然的波动范围。地球在发烧。在过去的几百年里，地球的温度已经上升了1.3华氏度， 0.75摄氏度而且它在继续上升因为我们一直在向大气排放矿物燃料。以每年2.5ppm的速度。它一直在无情地，持续地增加。
en:Number one: temperature and carbon dioxide in the atmospherego up and down basically in sync.You can see that from the orange line and the blue line.Nature naturally has allowed carbon dioxide to go up to 280 parts per million.That&#39;s the natural cycle.Goes up to 280 and then dropsfor various reasons that aren&#39;t important to discuss right here.But 280 is the peak.Right now, if you look at the top right part of that graph,we&#39;re at 385 parts per million.We are way, way outside the normal, natural variability.Earth is having a fever.In the past hundred years, the temperature of the Earthhas gone up 1.3 degrees Fahrenheit, .75 degrees Celsius,and it&#39;s going to keep going upbecause we keep dumping fossil fuels into the atmosphere.At the rate of about two and a half parts per million per year.It&#39;s been a remorseless, steady increase.
时间： 8:31
zh-cn:我们必须扭转这个趋势。那才是关键，而我希望有一天把那刻饰在整个纽约的时代广场和很多其他的地方上。好，回到冰的世界。
en:We have to turn that around.That&#39;s the crux, and someday I hope to emblazon thatacross Times Square in New York and a lot of other places.But anyway, off to the world of ice.
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:我们现在来到阿拉斯加的哥伦比亚冰川。这是一个叫做冰解面的景象。这是我们的一台摄相机在几个月间拍到的。你可以看到冰川从右边滑入，一直掉入海里，摄相机每小时拍一次。如果你看一下中间的背景，你可以看到冰解面像悠悠球一样上下摆动那表示冰川在浮动而且不稳定，你即将看到浮动的后果。让你有一点规模的概念，图片中的冰解面大概有325英尺高。相当于32层楼高。那可不是一个小悬崖。这像是市区中心的一幢大办公楼。冰解面是可以看到冰块脱离的墙面，但事实上，它向海平面以下还延伸了两千英尺。所以还有两千英尺深的一堵冰墙一直下到岩层，如果冰川坐落在岩层上的话，或者整个在漂浮。
en:We&#39;re now at the Columbia Glacier in Alaska.This is a view of what&#39;s called the calving face.This is what one of our cameras saw over the course of a few months.You see the glacier flowing in from the right,dropping off into the sea, camera shooting every hour.If you look in the middle background,you can see the calving face bobbing up and down like a yo-yo.That means that glacier&#39;s floating and it&#39;s unstable,and you&#39;re about to see the consequences of that floating.To give you a little bit of a sense of scale,that calving face in this pictureis about 325 feet tall. That&#39;s 32 stories.This is not a little cliff. This is like a major office building in an urban center.The calving face is the wall where the visible ice breaks off,but in fact, it goes down below sea level another couple thousand feet.So there&#39;s a wall of ice a couple thousand feet deepgoing down to bedrock if the glacier&#39;s grounded on bedrock,and floating if it isn&#39;t.
时间： 9:45
zh-cn:这是发生在哥伦比亚的，中心阿拉斯加南部。这是我在三年前六月某一天的空拍照片。这是我们今年的一张空拍照片。那是冰川消退的情况。冰川的主干道，涌动的方向是从右边过来在主干道上变化得非常快。再过几个星期我们要去那里，我们猜想它可能又后退了半英里，但是如果我到那儿发现它已经坍塌了而且往后又退了五英里，我一点也不会感到奇怪。
en:Here&#39;s what Columbia&#39;s done. This is in south central Alaska.This was an aerial picture I did one day in June three years ago.This is an aerial picture we did this year.That&#39;s the retreat of this glacier.The main stem, the main flow of the glacier is coming from the rightand it&#39;s going very rapidly up that stem.We&#39;re going to be up there in just a few more weeks,and we expect that it&#39;s probably retreated another half a mile,but if I got there and discovered that it had collapsedand it was five miles further back, I wouldn&#39;t be the least bit surprised.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:现在已经很难掌握这些地方的规模了因为这些冰川—要知道像阿拉斯加和格陵兰是很大的地方，他们有着不一般的地貌—冰川消退时，也在浮动，像空气从气球里放出来一样。因此这种地貌上的一些特征。在图片的正中间有一个山脊，在箭头进来的上面，在那儿你可以看出一二。那儿有一条标线叫边线在我们红色标注的上面。这可不是一般自重的摄影师会做的事情—在他的照片上放一些假惺惺的图标，对不对？但是你有时候还是得做一下以阐述这些观点。但是，不管怎样，自从1984年以来，这个冰川的缩小已经超过了埃菲尔铁塔的高度，超过了帝国大厦的高度。
en:Now it&#39;s really hard to grasp the scale of these places,because as the glaciers —one of the things is that places like Alaska and Greenland are huge,they&#39;re not normal landscapes —but as the glaciers are retreating, they&#39;re also deflating,like air is being let out of a balloon.And so, there are features on this landscape.There&#39;s a ridge right in the middle of the picture, up above where that arrow comes in,that shows you that a little bit.There&#39;s a marker line called the trim lineabove our little red illustration there.This is something no self-respecting photographer would ever do —you put some cheesy illustration on your shot, right? —and yet you have to do it sometimes to narrate these points.But, in any case, the deflation of this glacier since 1984has been higher than the Eiffel Tower, higher than the Empire State Building.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:在冰川消退，收缩，回归的过程中，这些峡谷流失了数量巨大的冰在阿尔卑斯范围发生的变化正在加速。它不是静态的。特别是在海洋冰川的世界里，自然变化的速度已经超过了才几年前的预测或者说这些过程在加速或者说这些预测一开始就太慢了。但是不管怎样，我们说的这会儿还有很大很大的变化在发生。
en:A tremendous amount of ice has been let out of these valleysas it&#39;s retreated and deflated, gone back up valley.These changes in the alpine world are accelerating.It&#39;s not static.Particularly in the world of sea ice,the rate of natural change is outstripping predictions of just a few years ago,and the processes either are acceleratingor the predictions were too low to begin with.But in any case, there are big, big changes happening as we speak.
时间：11:43
zh-cn:呃，这是另一组定时拍摄的哥伦比亚。你看到它春天每次结束的地方都不同。六月，五月，然后十月。现在我们启动定时拍摄。这个摄相机每小时拍一次。正在发生的地理变化。每个人会说，难道它们冬天不会扩大吗？不会。整个冬天它都在后退因为它是一座不健康的冰川。终于它恢复过来，向前扩张。
en:So, here&#39;s another time-lapse shot of Columbia.And you see where it ended in these various spring days,June, May, then October.Now we turn on our time lapse.This camera was shooting every hour.Geologic process in action here.And everybody says, well don&#39;t they advance in the winter time?No. It was retreating through the winter because it&#39;s an unhealthy glacier.Finally catches up to itself, it advances.
时间：12:11
zh-cn:你可以一遍又一遍地看这些照片因为看到这些东西是那么奇怪，稀奇却让人着迷你平常不会看到他们生动的一面。我们在这里讨论看得到的才是可信的在TED Global看到从没见过的事物。这是你通过这些镜头可以看到的。图像让看不出的变得可见。这些巨大的裂缝打开了。这些大冰岛脱离了—现在来看这个这是今年的春季—一场大崩塌。那是在一个月之内发生的，所有的冰量流失。
en:And you can look at these pictures over and over againbecause there&#39;s such a strange, bizarre fascination in seeingthese things you don&#39;t normally get to see come alive.We&#39;ve been talking about &quot;seeing is believing &quot;and seeing the unseen at TED Global.That&#39;s what you see with these cameras.The images make the invisible visible.These huge crevasses open up.These great ice islands break off —and now watch this.This has been the springtime this year —a huge collapse. That happened in about a month,the loss of all that ice.
时间：13:04
zh-cn:这是我们三年前开始时的地方，远在左边，而那是几个月前到达的地方，我们上次进入哥伦比亚。让你感觉一下消退规模有多大，我们做了另一个假惺惺的图标。用英国的双层巴士。如果你首尾相连排上295辆，大概就是它往后了多远。很长的一段路。
en:So that&#39;s where we started three years ago,way out on the left, and that&#39;s where we were a few months ago, thelast time we went into Columbia.To give you a feeling for the scale of the retreat,we did another cheesy illustration,with British double-decker buses.If you line up 295 of those nose to tail, that&#39;s about how far back that was.It&#39;s a long way.
时间：13:28
zh-cn:在冰岛上。我最喜欢的冰川之一，Sólheimajökull。这里，如果你注意的话，可以看到边界在消退，你可以看到正在形成的河流，你可以看到它在收缩。没有摄影过程的话，你是不可能看到的。这是无形之中进行的。你可以一辈子站在那儿也看不到这些事，但是镜头把它记录下来了。
en:On up to Iceland.One of my favorite glaciers, the Sólheimajökull.And here, if you watch, you can see the terminus retreating.You can see this river being formed.You can see it deflating.Without the photographic process, you would never see this. This is invisible.You can stand up there your whole life and you would never see this,but the camera records it.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:现在我们往回放。我们回放到几年前。那是它开始的地方。那是它几个月前到达的地方。
en:So we wind time backwards now.We go back a couple years in time.That&#39;s where it started.That&#39;s where it ended a few months ago.
时间：14:21
zh-cn:在格陵兰上。冰的密度越小，对气候的反应越快。格陵兰过了一段时间才开始对过去一个世纪的气候变暖产生反应，但它从20年前开始加速。而且在那儿有很大的温度提升。
en:And on up to Greenland.The smaller the ice mass, the faster it responds to climate.Greenland took a little while to start reactingto the warming climate of the past century,but it really started galloping along about 20 years ago.And there&#39;s been a tremendous increase in the temperature up there.
时间：14:41
zh-cn:它是一个辽阔的地方。到处是冰。所有颜色都是冰，有两英里那么厚，就是一个巨大的圆顶，从海岸边来，从中间升起。在格陵兰有一座冰川排入地球海洋的冰比北半球所有冰川加起来还要多：伊卢利萨特冰川
en:It&#39;s a big place. That&#39;s all ice.All those colors are ice and it goes up to about two miles thick,just a gigantic dome that comes in from the coast and rises in the middle.The one glacier up in Greenlandthat puts more ice into the global oceanthan all the other glaciers in the northern hemisphere combinedis the Ilulissat Glacier.
时间：15:00
zh-cn:我们在伊卢利萨特的南边安置了几个摄相机，看着冰解面戏剧性的消退。这里记录了过去两年的景象。直升机在前面来表明冰解面的规模，很快它变得很小。这张照片中冰解面跨越4.5英里，在这张图片中，当我们向后退时，你能看到只是他它的大约1.5英里的部分。想象一下这有多大冲出来的冰有多少。格陵兰的内陆在右边它涌进左边的大西洋。冰山，比这座建筑大很多很多很多倍的冰山咆哮着进入海洋。
en:We have some cameras on the south edge of the Ilulissat,watching the calving face as it goes through this dramatic retreat.Here&#39;s a two-year record of what that looks like.Helicopter in front of the calving face for scale, quickly dwarfed.The calving face is four and a half miles across,and in this shot, as we pull back, you&#39;re only seeing about a mile and a half.So, imagine how big this isand how much ice is charging out.The interior of Greenland is to the right.It&#39;s flowing out to the Atlantic Ocean on the left.Icebergs, many, many, many, many times the size of this building, are roaring out to sea.
时间：15:34
zh-cn:我们几个星期前下载了这些照片你们可以看到，六月二十五号，庞大的冰解活动正在发生。很快我会向你们展示到其中的一个。
en:We just downloaded these pictures a couple weeks ago,as you can see. June 25th,monster calving events happened.I&#39;ll show you one of those in a second.
时间：15:44
zh-cn:在过去的15年冰川的涌动速度已经加快了一倍。现在它每天前进125英尺，把所有的冰往海洋里倾泻。约每三天，它以这种脉动的形式前进但平均下来每天125英尺，是它20年前速度的两倍。
en:This glacier has doubled its flow speed in the past 15 years.It now goes at 125 feet a day, dumping all this ice into the ocean.It tends to go in these pulses, about every three days,but on average, 125 feet a day,twice the rate it did 20 years ago.
时间：16:02
zh-cn:好。我们有一个团队在观察这座冰川，我们记录下了电影从未记录过的最大冰解活动。我们有9台相机在运转。这是其中几台摄相机看到的。一个400英尺高的冰解面正在脱离。很大，很大的冰山正在滚下来。好，那有多大？这很难想象。再来对比一下，让你感觉一下规模有多大。那个排放口上的整个冰解面[大概]75分钟退一英里冰解面有三英里宽。这个冰团有五分之三英里深假如你拿冰解面的跨度和伦敦塔桥作对比，约有20个桥宽。或者你举个美国的例子，比如美国国会大厦那你在那个冰团里可以堆3,000座国会大厦，才会和冰团的大小相等。所有那些就发生在75分钟里。
en:Okay. We had a team out watching this glacier,and we recorded the biggest calving event that&#39;s ever been put on film.We had nine cameras going.This is what a couple of the cameras saw.A 400-foot-tall calving face breaking off.Huge icebergs rolling over.Okay, how big was that? It&#39;s hard to get it.So an illustration again, gives you a feeling for scale.A mile of retreat in 75 minutesacross the calving face, in that particular event, three miles wide.The block was three-fifths of a mile deep,and if you compare the expanse of the calving faceto the Tower Bridge in London, about 20 bridges wide.Or if you take an American reference, to the U.S. Capitol Buildingand you pack 3,000 Capitol Buildings into that block,it would be equivalent to how large that block was.75 minutes.
时间：17:44
zh-cn:现在我可以总结了花了很多时间在气候变化上后那就是我们的问题不在于经济，技术和公共政策。我们的问题在于认知。政策，经济和科技是足够严重的问题，但我们实际上是可以解决它们的。我确信我们可以。但是我们有的是认知问题因为还没有足够的人真正认识到。你们是精英观众群。你们认识到了。很幸运，很多世界上主要国家的政治领袖是精英观众群，大部分现在认识到了。但是我们还需要团结更多人。我认为像TED这样的组织，像“极端冰层调查”在这里可以有很大的影响到人们的认知并把大家团结起来。因为我相信当下我们有一个机会。
en:Now I&#39;ve come to the conclusionafter spending a lot of time in this climate change worldthat we don&#39;t have a problem of economics, technology and public policy.We have a problem of perception.The policy and the economics and the technology are serious enough issues,but we actually can deal with them.I&#39;m certain that we can.But what we have is a perception problembecause not enough people really get it yet.You&#39;re an elite audience. You get it.Fortunately, a lot of the political leaders in the major countries of the worldare an elite audience that for the most part gets it now.But we still need to bring a lot of people along with us.And that&#39;s where I think organizations like TED,like the Extreme Ice Survey can have a terrific impacton human perception and bring us along.Because I believe we have an opportunity right now.
时间：18:35
zh-cn:我们已经接近危机的边缘了，我们还有一个机会来面对我们这代最大的挑战事实上，我们这个世纪的最大挑战。这是使命召唤我们为自己和未来做正确的事情。我希望我们的智慧可以让我们的天性化为天使为这个时机而腾起，做我们该做的事情。谢谢。
en:We are nearly on the edge of a crisis,but we still have an opportunity to face the greatest challengeof our generation and, in fact, of our century.This is a terrific, terrific call to armsto do the right thing for ourselves and for the future.I hope that we have the wisdom to let the angels of our better naturerise to the occasion and do what needs to be done. Thank you.
时间：18:59
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
