时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在地球以外，太阳系里还有生命吗？
en:Is there life beyond Earthin our solar system?
时间： 0:16
zh-cn:哇，多么掷地有声的问题！作为一名科学家——行星科学家——我们很久以来都没有认真的考虑过这个问题。
en:Wow, what a powerful question.You know, as a scientist —planetary scientist —we really didn&#39;t take thatvery seriously until recently.
时间： 0:27
zh-cn:卡尔·萨根（译注：美国天文学家）常说，”非凡的断言需要有非凡的证据”。地球之外有生命的断言必须是明确的，必须是响亮的,还需要证据充分，这样我们才会相信。
en:Carl Sagan always said,&quot;It takes extraordinary evidencefor extraordinary claims.&quot;And the claims of having life beyond Earthneed to be definitive,they need to be loudand they need to be everywherefor us to be able to believe it.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:那么，我们要如何开始这段旅行呢？我们决定首先去寻找生命的基本要素。生命的基本要素是：液态水——我们需要溶剂，不能是冰，必须是液态的。我们还需要能量。有机物质也是必不可少的——这些都是组成我们的生命体，以及供我们消耗的东西。
en:So how do we make this journey?What we decided to dois first look forthose ingredients for life.The ingredients of life are:liquid water —we have to have a solvent,can&#39;t be ice, has to be liquid.We also have to have energy.We also have to have organic material —things that make us up,but also things that we need to consume.
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:环境中必须长期存在这些元素才会让我们相信：生命在诞生的那一刻，能够迸发出火花，并且能够成长和演变。
en:So we have to have these elementsin environments for long periods of timefor us to be ableto be confident that life,in that moment when it starts,can spark and then grow and evolve.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:我必须坦白，在我职业生涯早期，当我们研究这三个要素时，我并不相信它们能在地球之外存在足够长的时间，或达到足够的规模。
en:Well, I have to tell youthat early in my career,when we looked at those three elements,I didn&#39;t believethat they were beyond Earthin any length of timeand for any real quantity.
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:为什么？让我们看看太阳系的行星：金星太热——所以没水。火星——干旱贫瘠，也不会有水。在太阳系中比火星更远的地方，水全部冻成了固态的冰。
en:Why? We look at the inner planets.Venus is way too hot — it&#39;s got no water.Mars — dry and arid.It&#39;s got no water.And beyond Mars,the water in the solar systemis all frozen.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:但是最近的观测改变了这一切。现在它把我们的注意力带到了正确的地方，让我们去进一步观察，并且真正开始回答生命的问题。
en:But recent observationshave changed all that.It&#39;s now turning our attentionto the right placesfor us to take a deeper lookand really start to answerour life question.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:那么，当我们探索太阳系时，生命可能存在于哪里呢？我们将注意力集中在以下四处：火星和更远的三个卫星：泰坦（土卫六），欧罗巴（木卫二）和小小的恩赛拉多斯（土卫二）。
en:So when we look out into the solar system,where are the possibilities?We&#39;re concentrating our attentionon four locations.The planet Marsand then three moons of the outer planets:Titan, Europa and small Enceladus.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:火星到底是什么情况呢？让我们看看证据。起初我们以为火星像月亮一样：布满陨石坑，荒凉，没有生命。
en:So what about Mars?Let&#39;s go through the evidence.Well, Mars we thoughtwas initially moon-like:full of craters, arid and a dead world.
时间： 2:51
zh-cn:大约在15年前，我们开始了一系列登陆火星的任务，去查看那里过去是否有水存在过，还因此改变了它的地质。我们应该可以观察得到。而实际上，我们一开始就很惊讶。高清图片显示，那里有三角洲，河谷和沟渠，它们过去都曾存在过。事实上，好奇号探测车在火星表面上漫游已经有三年了——我们看到它停在一条古老的河床上，那里曾有过湍急的水流。时间还不短，可能曾持续过数亿年之久。如果所有要素都存在，包括有机物在内，也许生命曾在那里诞生过。
en:And so about 15 years ago,we started a seriesof missions to go to Marsand see if water existedon Mars in its pastthat changed its geology.We ought to be able to notice that.And indeed we startedto be surprised right away.Our higher resolution imagesshow deltas and river valleys and gulleysthat were there in the past.And in fact,Curiosity —which has been roving on the surfacenow for about three years —has really shown us that it&#39;s sittingin an ancient river bed,where water flowed rapidly.And not for a little while,perhaps hundreds of millions of years.And if everything was there,including organics,perhaps life had started.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:好奇号还在红土上打了洞，并且发现了其他物质。我们看到后非常兴奋，因为那不是红色的物质，而是灰色的，火星地表下面是灰色的。我们把挖出来的东西带回探测车，仔细地分析了它，你们猜怎么着？我们分析出了有机物——碳，氢，氧，氮，磷，硫——统统都有。
en:Curiosity has alsodrilled in that red soiland brought up other material.And we were really excitedwhen we saw that.Because it wasn&#39;t red Mars,it was gray material,it&#39;s gray Mars.We brought it into the rover,we tasted it,and guess what?We tasted organics —carbon, hydrogen, oxygen,nitrogen, phosphorus, sulfur —they were all there.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:所以过去的火星曾有很多的水，也许存在过很长时间，可能有过生命，可能有过生命的火花，还可能繁衍过一段时间。那时候的生命还在么？我们不知道。
en:So Mars in its past,with a lot of water,perhaps plenty of time,could have had life,could have had that spark,could have grown.And is that life still there?We don&#39;t know that.
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:但是几年前，我们开始观察一些陨石坑。在夏季，陨石坑的边沿会出现深色的线条。随着我们观察得越多，看到的陨石坑越多，这样的特征也越多。现在已知的已经超过十二个了。
en:But a few years agowe started to look at a number of craters.During the summer,dark lines would appeardown the sides of these craters.The more we looked,the more craters we saw,the more of these features.We now know more than a dozen of them.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:几个月前，童话故事成真了！我们向世界宣布，我们已经知道这些条纹是什么了。是液态水。这些陨石坑在夏天浸出水分。这些液态水顺着陨石坑向下流。我们接下来要做什么——在发现了液态水之后？这说明火星拥有生命的所有必需成分。在过去，可能它的北半球有三分之二都曾是海洋。现在它有冒出的水流。星球表面有液态水。它有有机物。它有一切合适（孕育生命）的条件。
en:A few months ago the fairy tale came true.We announced to the worldthat we know what these streaks are.It&#39;s liquid water.These craters are weepingduring the summer.Liquid water is flowingdown these craters.So what are we going to do now —now that we see the water?Well, it tells us that Mars hasall the ingredients necessary for life.In its past it had perhapstwo-thirds of its northern hemisphere —there was an ocean.It has weeping water right now.Liquid water on its surface.It has organics.It has all the right conditions.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:那么我们接下来要做什么呢？我们将开展一系列任务开始寻找火星上的生命。现在行动要比以往任何时候都更有吸引力。
en:So what are we going to do next?We&#39;re going to launch a series of missionsto begin that search for life on Mars.And now it&#39;s more appealingthan ever before.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:在离地球更远的太阳系里，有一个小小的土卫二。它不在我们以往公认的宜居区域内，也就是靠近太阳的区域。这里离太阳很远。这个星球应该像个被冰层覆盖的硅酸盐核心。
en:As we move out into the solar system,here&#39;s the tiny moon Enceladus.This is not in what we callthe traditional habitable zone,this area around the sun.This is much further out.This object should beice over a silicate core.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:但我们找到了什么？自2006年起，卡西尼太空船就在那里，在飞过土卫二的几年后，再回过头看，我们都大吃一惊。土卫二在向太阳系喷出一片片的水，再回落到它的表面。多么美妙的环境啊。卡西尼太空船几个月前又从这些飞溅的水流中穿过，它检测到了硅酸盐颗粒。这些硅从哪来的？它肯定是从海底来的。土星产生的潮汐动能拉扯，挤压着这个星球——正融化那里的冰，形成着海洋。这潮汐能同样拉扯挤压着硅酸盐核心。
en:But what did we find?Cassini was there since 2006,and after a couple yearslooked back after it flew by Enceladusand surprised us all.Enceladus is blasting sheets of waterout into the solar systemand sloshing back down onto the moon.What a fabulous environment.Cassini just a few months agoalso flew through the plume,and it measured silicate particles.Where does the silica come from?It must come from the ocean floor.The tidal energy is generated by Saturn,pulling and squeezing this moon —is melting that ice,creating an ocean.But it&#39;s also doing that to the core.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:我们唯一能想到地球上类似的现象是——深海热泉。深海热泉在1977年的时候在海洋深处被发现。海洋学家们对此非常惊讶。如今在海洋之下有成千上万这样的深海热泉。
en:Now, the only thing that we can think ofthat does that here on Earthas an analogy ...are hydrothermal vents.Hydrothermal vents deep in our oceanwere discovered in 1977.Oceanographers were completely surprised.And now there are thousandsof these below the ocean.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:我们找到了什么？当海洋学家们研究这些深海热泉时发现那里有富饶的生命，不管水是酸性的还是碱性的——这不重要。地球上的深海热泉是生命的绝佳住所。
en:What do we find?The oceanographers, when they goand look at these hydrothermal vents,they&#39;re teeming with life,regardless of whether the wateris acidic or alkaline —doesn&#39;t matter.So hydrothermal vents area fabulous abode for life here on Earth.
时间： 7:19
zh-cn:那么土卫二呢？我们相信因为它有水，并且在相当长的一段时间里拥有水，加上我们认为它有深海热泉，以及适合的有机物质。那是一个生命可能存在的地方。并且不仅仅是微生物——可能存在更复杂的生命，因为它有足够的时间去进化。
en:So what about Enceladus?Well, we believe because it has waterand has had it fora significant period of time,and we believe it has hydrothermal ventswith perhaps the right organic material,it is a place where life could exist.And not just microbial —maybe more complexbecause it&#39;s had time to evolve.
时间： 7:46
zh-cn:另一个非常相似的卫星，木卫二。伽利略号在1996年时探访了木星系统，对木卫二进行了详细的观察。我们知道木卫二拥有存在于冰层下的海洋。伽利略号告诉了我们这些，但我们从未看到过任何的片状水。因为我们从未找寻过它们。
en:Another moon, very similar,is Europa.Galileo visited Jupiter&#39;s system in 1996and made fabulous observations of Europa.Europa, we also know,has an under-the-ice crust ocean.Galileo mission told us that,but we never saw any plumes.But we didn&#39;t look for them.
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:哈勃望远镜就在几年前观察木卫二时，看到了片状水，它们从南半球的裂缝中喷洒出来，就跟土卫二一模一样。
en:Hubble,just a couple years ago,observing Europa,saw plumes of waterspraying from the cracksin the southern hemisphere,just exactly like Enceladus.
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:这些卫星不在我们称作传统宜居地的区域，而在太阳系更远的地方，却拥有着液态水。如果那里有有机物的话，那里就可能有生命。
en:These moons,which are not in what we calla traditional habitable zone,that are out in the solar system,have liquid water.And if there are organics there,there may be life.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:这是一系列绝佳的发现，因为这些卫星已经在这样的环境中存在了数十亿年。我们相信地球上的生命开始于地球形成5亿年之后，看看现在的我们（进化的程度）。这些卫星让人难以置信。
en:This is a fabulous set of discoveriesbecause these moonshave been in this environment like thatfor billions of years.Life started here on Earth, we believe,after about the first 500 million,and look where we are.These moons are fabulous moons.
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:我们在研究的另一个卫星是土卫六。土卫六是土星的一个非常大的卫星。它可能比水星还要大很多。它有着广阔的大气层。非常的广阔——主要成分是氮气，还有一点点甲烷和乙烷——所以你需要用雷达来观测它。
en:Another moon that we&#39;relooking at is Titan.Titan is a huge moon of Saturn.It perhaps is much largerthan the planet Mercury.It has an extensive atmosphere.It&#39;s so extensive —and it&#39;s mostly nitrogenwith a little methane and ethane —that you have to peerthrough it with radar.
时间： 9:24
zh-cn:在它的表面，卡西尼号发现了液态水。我们看到了湖泊——实际上，某些地方的湖几乎跟我们的黑海一样大。然而这块地方并不是液态水；它实际上是甲烷（译注：沼气）。如果在太阳系里存在这样一个地方，那里的生命与我们不同，那里水的代替物是另一种溶剂——可以是甲烷——那个地方就可以是土卫六。
en:And on the surface,Cassini has found liquid.We see lakes ...actually almost the sizeof our Black Sea in some places.And this area is not liquid water;it&#39;s methane.If there&#39;s any place in the solar systemwhere life is not like us,where the substitute of wateris another solvent —and it could be methane —it could be Titan.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:回到这个问题：在地球以外，在太阳系中有生命么？我们还不知道，但我们正在努力寻求答案。我们现在接收到的信息非常让人激动，它告诉我们——并迫使我们以新的令人激动的方式去思考这个问题。我相信我们正朝着正确的方向努力。在接下来的10年内，我们将能够回答这个问题。如果我们做出了解答，并且结果是积极的，那么太阳系中的生命将会无所不在。想想看吧。我们也许并不孤单。
en:Well, is there life beyond Earthin the solar system?We don&#39;t know yet,but we&#39;re hot on the pursuit.The data that we&#39;re receivingis really excitingand telling us —forcing us to think about thisin new and exciting ways.I believe we&#39;re on the right track.That in the next 10 years,we will answer that question.And if we answer it,and it&#39;s positive,then life is everywherein the solar system.Just think about that.We may not be alone.
时间：10:29
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：10:30
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
