时间： 0:11
zh-cn:暗喻秘密地生活在我们中间。于我们的言谈中，每分钟大约会出现六个暗喻。暗喻思维是一把钥匙，它可以开启我们相互理解沟通、学习、发现和创新的大门。首先，暗喻是一种思维方式。
en:Metaphor lives a secret life all around us.We utter about six metaphors a minute.Metaphorical thinking is essentialto how we understand ourselves and others,how we communicate, learn, discoverand invent.But metaphor is a way of thought before it is a way with words.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:为了说明这一点，我请教了一位当代最伟大的哲学家，当权的暗喻皇帝，一位因其对暗喻学的巨大贡献而自身成了一位暗喻的人物。当然，我指的不是别人，正是猫王埃尔维斯-普雷斯利。（众笑）
en:Now, to assist me in explaining this,I&#39;ve enlisted the help of one of our greatest philosophers,the reigning king of the metaphorians,a man whose contributions to the fieldare so great that he himselfhas become a metaphor.I am, of course, referring to none otherthan Elvis Presley.(Laughter)
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:好，《神魂颠倒》（意即整个人都被动摇了）是一首经典情歌。也是一个极好的暗喻范例，它诠释了当我们面临抽象事物时，无论是主意、情绪、感觉、概念亦或是思想，都不得不求助于暗喻。在《神魂颠倒》中，触摸不再是触摸，而是寒气。嘴唇不再是嘴唇，而是火山。她不再是她，而是毛茛花（一种小黄花）。爱情也不再是爱情，而是变得神魂颠倒了。
en:Now, &quot;All Shook Up&quot; is a great love song.It&#39;s also a great example of howwhenever we deal with anything abstract —ideas, emotions, feelings, concepts, thoughts —we inevitably resort to metaphor.In &quot;All Shook Up,&quot; a touch is not a touch, but a chill.Lips are not lips, but volcanoes.She is not she, but a buttercup.And love is not love, but being all shook up.
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:在这里，埃尔维斯采用的完全是亚里士多德对暗喻的经典定义，亦即是把B事物的名称赋予给A事物的过程。这就是暗喻的数学公式。幸好它很简单。X等于Y。（众笑）这个公式适用于所有的暗喻。
en:In this, Elvis is following Aristotle&#39;s classic definition of metaphoras the process of giving the thinga name that belongs to something else.This is the mathematics of metaphor.And fortunately it&#39;s very simple.X equals Y.(Laughter)This formula works wherever metaphor is present.
时间： 1:50
zh-cn:埃尔维斯用到它，莎士比亚也同样用到它。于《罗密欧与朱丽叶》中有这样的名句—朱丽叶是太阳。在这里莎士比亚赋予朱丽叶一个属于其它事物的名称，太阳。但是当我们赋予A事物以B事物的名称时，我们也赋予它一整套的类比。我们把对喻体的认知，此处是太阳，与对本体的认知— 朱丽叶联系在一起，这样的暗喻可使我们更生动地理解朱丽叶，强过莎士比亚忠实地描述她的相貌。
en:Elvis uses it, but so does Shakespearein this famous line from &quot;Romeo and Juliet:&quot;Juliet is the sun.Now, here, Shakespeare gives the thing, Juliet,a name that belongs to something else, the sun.But whenever we give a thing a name that belongs to something else,we give it a whole network of analogies too.We mix and match what we know about the metaphor&#39;s source,in this case the sun,with what we know about its target, Juliet.And metaphor gives us a much more vivid understanding of Julietthan if Shakespeare had literally described what she looks like.
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:那我们如何运用和理解暗喻呢？大家对此并不陌生。第一步就是模式识别。请看这张图。你看到了什么？其实只有三个在外沿的吃豆人(Pac Man)，和三个尖角括号而已。但我们实际看到的是两个重叠的三角形。暗喻不仅仅是模式辨识，也是模式创造。第二步，概念联觉。
en:So, how do we make and understand metaphors?This might look familiar.The first step is pattern recognition.Look at this image. What do you see?Three wayward Pac-Men,and three pointy brackets are actually present.What we see, however,are two overlapping triangles.Metaphor is not just the detection of patterns;it is the creation of patterns.Second step, conceptual synesthesia.
时间： 2:55
zh-cn:联觉是指一种感官受到的刺激引起另一种感官的感受，例如色彩听觉。有色彩听觉的人就会在听到词语的声音时将会看到色彩。我们都拥有联觉的能力。这是Bouba/Kiki测试。请你说出哪个形状叫Bouba，哪个叫Kiki。（众笑）
en:Now, synesthesia is the experience of a stimulus in once sense organin another sense organ as well,such as colored hearing.People with colored hearingactually see colors when they hear the soundsof words or letters.We all have synesthetic abilities.This is the Bouba/Kiki test.What you have to do is identify which of these shapesis called Bouba, and which is called Kiki.(Laughter)
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:如果你象其余百分之九十八的人一样，你会把这个圆圆的，变形虫形状的叫做Bouba，把尖尖的，刺猬状的叫做Kiki。是这样的请举手？是不是象我说的那样？好，我想大概99.9%是那样。这是为什么？因为我们本能地去找寻，或者创造一个模式，把圆的图形与Bouba这个圆的声音联系起来。对尖的图形和尖的声音Kiki 也是如此。
en:If you are like 98 percent of other people,you will identify the round, amoeboid shape as Bouba,and the sharp, spiky one as Kiki.Can we do a quick show of hands?Does that correspond?Okay, I think 99.9 would about cover it.Why do we do that?Because we instinctively find, or create,a pattern between the round shapeand the round sound of Bouba,and the spiky shape and the spiky sound of Kiki.
时间： 3:56
zh-cn:我们日常生活中的暗喻多是联觉性的：沉默是甜的（抑或沉默是金）。领结是花骚的。性感的人是火辣的。而不性感的人让我们觉得冷冰冰的。暗喻构筑了一个概念联觉的空间，我们在其中用一种概念的情境来理解另一种概念。
en:And many of the metaphors we use everyday are synesthetic.Silence is sweet.Neckties are loud.Sexually attractive people are hot.Sexually unattractive people leave us cold.Metaphor creates a kind of conceptual synesthesia,in which we understand one conceptin the context of another.
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:第三步是认知失调。这是Stroop测试，请你尽快指出构成这些词的字母在图片中实际的颜色。就从现在开始。如果你和大多数人一样，颜色的名称和图片中实际的颜色不符会使你暂时地认知失调。这个测试表明我们无法忽视这些词的字面意义，尽管字面意义上的答案是错误的。
en:Third step is cognitive dissonance.This is the Stroop test.What you need to do here is identifyas quickly as possiblethe color of the ink in which these words are printed.You can take the test now.If you&#39;re like most people, you will experiencea moment of cognitive dissonancewhen the name of the coloris printed in a differently colored ink.The test shows that we cannot ignore the literal meaning of wordseven when the literal meaning gives the wrong answer.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:Stroop 测试也曾被用于暗喻上，受试者需要尽快地辨识那些字面上错误的句子，其中包括暗喻。他们要花更长的时间才能把包含暗喻的句子从中挑出来。这是为什么？因为我们同样也不能忽视这些词暗喻的意义。
en:Stroop tests have been done with metaphor as well.The participants had to identify, as quickly as possible,the literally false sentences.They took longer to reject metaphors as falsethan they did to reject literally false sentences.Why? Because we cannot ignorethe metaphorical meaning of words either.
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:其中一句话是：“有些工作是监狱”当然，除非你是监狱看守，“有些工作是监狱”这句话字面上是错的。不幸却在暗喻上是对的而暗喻上的真实干扰了我们的辨识能力，以至于难于区分字面上的真假。暗喻很重要，因它随时随地，无处不在。暗喻很重要，因它带来期待
en:One of the sentences was, &quot;Some jobs are jails.&quot;Now, unless you&#39;re a prison guard,the sentence &quot;Some jobs are jails&quot; is literally false.Sadly, it&#39;s metaphorically true.And the metaphorical truth interferes with our abilityto identify it as literally false.Metaphor matters becauseit&#39;s around us every day, all the time.Metaphor matters because it creates expectations.
时间： 5:33
zh-cn:下次你看财经新闻可要注意，拟人化的暗喻用来描述价格运动，就像是有人有意那么做。比如：“NASDAQ指数攀至新高”拟物化的暗喻用物体来描述价格运动，比如：&#39;道琼斯指数象砖头一样下跌。&#39;
en:Pay careful attention the next time you read the financial news.Agent metaphors describe price movementsas the deliberate action of a living thing,as in, &quot;The NASDAQ climbed higher.&quot;Object metaphors describe price movementsas non-living things,as in, &quot;The Dow fell like a brick.&quot;
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:研究人员请一群人在读了一些股评之后来预测第二天的股价走势。那些读过拟人化暗喻的人更多地期待股价走势会持续。而他们这样期待是由于拟人化的隐喻暗示了有人在刻意追逐一个目标。如果房价总是被说成是不断攀升，越走越高，人们自然会以为房价上升势不可挡。他们会感觉良好，以至于背负超过支付能力的按揭。当然这只是个虚构的例子。但是暗喻确实会这样误导人。
en:Researchers asked a group of peopleto read a clutch of market commentaries,and then predict the next day&#39;s price trend.Those exposed to agent metaphorshad higher expectations that price trends would continue.And they had those expectations becauseagent metaphors imply the deliberate actionof a living thing pursuing a goal.If, for example, house pricesare routinely described as climbing and climbing,higher and higher, people might naturally assumethat that rise is unstoppable.They may feel confident, say,in taking out mortgages they really can&#39;t afford.That&#39;s a hypothetical example of course.But this is how metaphor misleads.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:暗喻很重要，因为它通过激活类比机制来影响决策。在一项研究中，一群学生被告知某个民主小国在遭到侵略后向美国寻求援助。学生们必须决定怎么办。他们该怎么做呢？干预，向联合国申诉，还是袖手旁观？这个假想的危机有三种不同的解释，他们每人听到其中的一种。每个解释意在引起对不同历史事件的类比：二战，越战，或者一个中性的事件。
en:Metaphor also matters because it influences decisionsby activating analogies.A group of students was told that a small democratic countryhad been invaded and had asked the U.S. for help.And they had to make a decision.What should they do?Intervene, appeal to the U.N., or do nothing?They were each then given one of threedescriptions of this hypothetical crisis.Each of which was designed to triggera different historical analogy:World War II, Vietnam,and the third was historically neutral.
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:听到二战类比的学生比其他学生更多地建议美国干预这场危机。正如我们不能忽视词语的字面意义，我们也无法忽视由暗喻促发的类比。暗喻很重要，因为它开启了发现的大门。每当我们要解决问题，或做新的探索时，我们就把已知和未知进行比较。而我们发现未知的唯一途径就是探讨未知和已知有何相似性。
en:Those exposed to the World War II scenariomade more interventionist recommendationsthan the others.Just as we cannot ignore the literal meaning of words,we cannot ignore the analogiesthat are triggered by metaphor.Metaphor matters because it opens the door to discovery.Whenever we solve a problem, or make a discovery,we compare what we know with what we don&#39;t know.And the only way to find out about the latteris to investigate the ways it might be like the former.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:爱因斯坦曾把他的科学方法描述为组合的游戏。他在其有名的思想实验中，实质上就是复杂的类比中，成就了一些最伟大的科学发现。当我们用类比把已知和未知联系在一起时，暗喻的思维就会点燃发现的火花。
en:Einstein described his scientific method as combinatory play.He famously used thought experiments,which are essentially elaborate analogies,to come up with some of his greatest discoveries.By bringing together what we knowand what we don&#39;t know through analogy,metaphorical thinking strikes the sparkthat ignites discovery.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:暗喻虽然无处不在，却是隐藏身形。而你只要注意周围的用词就可以找到它。诗人艾默生曾将语言描述为“化石般的诗”。但是在它成为化石般的诗之前，语言是化石般的暗喻。而这些化石现在仍具有生气。
en:Now metaphor is ubiquitous, yet it&#39;s hidden.But you just have to look at the words around youand you&#39;ll find it.Ralph Waldo Emerson described languageas &quot;fossil poetry.&quot;But before it was fossil poetrylanguage was fossil metaphor.And these fossils still breathe.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:就拿在西方哲学中最有名的三个词来说：&quot;Cogito ergo sum.&quot;通常被翻译为“我思故我在。”但是有一种更好的译法。这里拉丁文&quot;cogito&quot;是从前缀&quot;co&quot;而来，意思是&quot;在一起&quot;而动词&quot;agitare&quot;是“摇动” 的意思所以&quot;cogito&quot;的原意是一起摇动。而&quot;cogito ergo sum&quot;的适切的翻译是&quot;我摇动事物, 故我在.&quot;(众笑)
en:Take the three most famous words in all of Western philosophy:&quot;Cogito ergo sum.&quot;That&#39;s routinely translated as, &quot;I think, therefore I am.&quot;But there is a better translation.The Latin word &quot;cogito&quot;is derived from the prefix &quot;co,&quot; meaning &quot;together,&quot;and the verb &quot;agitare,&quot; meaning &quot;to shake.&quot;So, the original meaning of &quot;cogito&quot;is to shake together.And the proper translation of &quot;cogito ergo sum&quot;is &quot;I shake things up, therefore I am.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 8:54
zh-cn:暗喻摇动事物，它带给我们从莎士比亚到科学发现的各样事情。我们的思想是一个圣诞节的雪花球，它最美丽、最有趣，也最本色的时候，就是它被使劲摇动的时候，象埃尔维斯所说的一样。暗喻让我们的思想不住的摇动，叮当作响，滚动不已，尽管埃尔维斯早已离开。谢谢各位。(掌声)
en:Metaphor shakes things up,giving us everything from Shakespeare to scientific discovery in the process.The mind is a plastic snow dome,the most beautiful, most interesting,and most itself, when, as Elvis put it,it&#39;s all shook up.And metaphor keeps the mind shaking,rattling and rolling, long after Elvis has left the building.Thank you very much.(Applause)
