时间： 0:11
zh-cn:请允我带你们回到过去开始，回到你记忆的迷雾里，也许那是你生命中最值得期待的一年，而的确这也是人类历史上最值得期待的一年2000年，记得么？千禧病毒，互联网泡沫当接近午夜的时候在香槟走味之前你还在为应该参加谁的派对而烦恼当然，也有与最初的向往的落差很多人觉得，千禧年2000年，应该有更多的意义比一个2和几个0有更多的意义
en:So let me start by taking you back,back into the mists of your memoryto perhaps the most anticipated year in your life,but certainly the most anticipated yearin all human history:the year 2000. Remember that?Y2K, the dotcom bubble,stressing about whose party you&#39;re going to go toas the clock strikes midnight,before the champagne goes flat,and then there&#39;s that inchoate yearningthat was felt, I think, by many, that the millennium,that the year 2000, should mean more,more than just a two and some zeroes.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:令人惊叹的是，这个世界的领导者们这一次并没有辜负这个千年一次的时刻在2000年的时候，他们在一些非凡的东西上达成一致富有长远意义的，可测量的，长期的目标被称为 “千年发展目标”
en:Well, amazingly, for once, our world leadersactually lived up to that millennium momentand back in 2000 agreed to somepretty extraordinary stuff:visionary, measurable, long-term targetscalled the Millennium Development Goals.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:我相信你们都有把这份计划放在枕头下，或者床头柜下不过假若你没有或者你需要一些提醒这些同意的条款是：发展中国家在2015年前保证至少减少一半的赤贫，饥饿和疾病的死亡数目还有一些其他的目标：在2015年之前发达国家将减少债权改为增加有力的帮助和贸易改革来帮助他们
en:Now, I&#39;m sure you all keep a copy of the goalsunder your pillow, or by the bedside table,but just in case you don&#39;t,and your memory needs some jogging,the deal agreed then goes like this:developing countries promised to at least halveextreme poverty, hunger and deaths from disease,alongside some other targets, by 2015,and developed nations promised to help themget that done by dropping debts,increasing smart aid, and trade reform.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:现在快到2015了所以我们最好来评估一下，这些目标完成的怎么样了？而且我们还要决定，我们是否喜欢这些目标？有些人不喜欢。如果我们认可某些目标，我们要决定从此以后如何处理这些目标这个世界要一起做些什么？我们要给既定的目标做出计划
en:Well, we&#39;re approaching 2015,so we&#39;d better assess, how are we doing on these goals?But we&#39;ve also got to decide, do we like such global goals?Some people don&#39;t. And if we like them, we&#39;ve got to decidewhat we want to do on these goals going forward.What does the world want to do together?We&#39;ve got to decide a process by which we decide.
时间： 1:56
zh-cn:当然，我认为继续完善和深入了解这些目标是值得的我这么说的原因有许多发展中国家的令人难以置信的于私营部门之间的伙伴关系：政治领袖，慈善家和那些杰出的基层活动者还因为那些曾经在这座建筑物外，在爱丁堡街上为“让贫穷成为历史”游行的25万人。
en:Well, I definitely think these goals are worth building onand seeing through, and here&#39;s just a few reasons why.Incredible partnerships between the private sector,political leaders, philanthropistsand amazing grassroots activistsacross the developing world,but also 250,000 people marched in the streetsof Edinburgh outside this very buildingfor Make Poverty History.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:这些人一起取得这些成果：增加了使用抗逆转录病毒药物，拯救生命的抗艾滋病药物的人数；几乎减半了疟疾的死亡人数用接种疫苗保护了540万人的生命这些加在一起，与2000年相比，每年使得两百万儿童免于死亡。这等于每天有五千个孩子免于死亡，正是因为这些合作，帮助与在座人数相比的十倍人口免于死亡。因此我认为，更多的人应该知道这些惊人的进展但是如何来传达这些好消息的途径，就不是这里我想要细讲的了，不管怎样，感谢帮助取得这些成果的人。不仅证明了这些目标是有价值的。
en:All together, they achieved these results:increased the number of people on anti-retrovirals,life-saving anti-AIDS drugs;nearly halved deaths from malaria;vaccinated so many that 5.4 million lives will be saved.And combined, this is going to resultin two million fewer children dying every year,last year, than in the year 2000.That&#39;s 5,000 fewer kids dying every day,ten times you lot not dead every day,because of all of these partnerships.So I think this is amazing living proof of progressthat more people should know about,but the challenge of communicating this kind of good newsis probably the subject of a different TEDTalk.Anyway, for now, anyone involved in getting these results,thank you. I think this proved these goals are worth it.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:但仍然，还有很多未完成的事业。每年依旧有760万儿童死于能预防的，治愈的疾病，一亿七千八百万儿童由于营养不良而发育迟缓，这意味着可怕的身体和认知能力的终身障碍。由此看来，既定目标上显然还是有很多要做的事情。
en:But there&#39;s still a lot of unfinished business.Still, 7.6 million children die every year of preventable,treatable diseases,and 178 million kids are malnourishedto the point of stunting, a horrible termwhich means physical and cognitive lifelong impairment.So there&#39;s plainly a lot more to do on the goals we&#39;ve got.
时间： 3:27
zh-cn:但是与此同时，很多人认为那些没有达成共识的，本来应该被包含在计划之内的目标应该在现在添加，比如可持续发展目标，自然资源治理目标，机会和知识的使用权利，平等及对抗腐败。这一切都是可以衡量的，并可能成为新的目标。
en:But then, a lot of people think there are thingsthat should have been in the original packagethat weren&#39;t agreed back then that should now be included,like sustainable development targets,natural resource governance targets,access to opportunity, to knowledge,equity, fighting corruption.All of this is measurable and could be in the new goals.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:关键是，你认为新的目标里应该有什么？你想要什么？你有没有对我没有提及男女平等或者教育而不满？这些应该被加入到新的目标里么？
en:But the key thing here is,what do you think should be in the new goals?What do you want?Are you annoyed that I didn&#39;t talk about gender equalityor education?Should those be in the new package of goals?
时间： 3:59
zh-cn:非常坦白的说，这是一个很好的问题，但是这里会有一些艰难的权衡和选择，所以你会希望这个世界决定新的目标的过程应该是合理的，对吧？
en:And quite frankly, that&#39;s a good question,but there&#39;s going to be some tough tradeoffsand choices here, so you want to hopethat the process by which the world decidesthese new goals is going to be legitimate, right?
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:那么，我们聚集在爱丁堡，这些由联合国和某些政府任命的技术官员，带着最好的意图，都在忙于设计这些新的计划而且现在他们依旧通过旧的，20世纪末，自上而下由精英组成，封闭的过程来设计这些计划。
en:Well, as we gather here in Edinburgh,technocrats appointed by the U.N. and certain governments,with the best intentions, are busying themselvesdesigning a new package of goals,and currently they&#39;re doing that through pretty much the same oldlate-20th-century, top-down, elite, closed process.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:但是，当然从那时起，网络和移动电话，加上无处不在的直播电视形式已经传播到整个世界。所以我们建议运用这些技术来让来自世界各地的人们参与到这个历史上第一次：全世界上第一次真正意义上的全球投票和协商，来自不同地方的每个人都有平等的发言权。
en:But, of course, since then, the Web and mobile telephony,along with ubiquitous reality TV formatshave spread all around the world.So what we&#39;d like to propose is that we use themto involve people from all around the worldin an historic first: the world&#39;s first truly globalpoll and consultation, where everyone everywherehas an equal voice for the very first time.
时间： 4:52
zh-cn:我的意思是，由于我们有这样的能力，如果我们不去做的话岂不是错过了一个巨大的历史性机遇么？这包括数十上亿的救援基金数百万的生命危在旦夕，还有，你和你家人的安全以及未来，也危在旦夕。
en:I mean, wouldn&#39;t it be a huge historic missed opportunitynot to do this, given that we can?There&#39;s hundreds of billions of your aid dollars at stake,tens of millions of lives, or deaths, at stake,and, I&#39;d argue, the security and futureof you and your family is also at stake.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:所以，如果你同意我说的，那么实现这个众资的进程有这三个重要的步骤：收集，连接和承诺。
en:So, if you&#39;re with me, I&#39;d say there&#39;s three essential stepsin this crowdsourcing campaign:collecting, connecting and committing.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:首先，我们必须以资料调查做为基础核心让我们进入每一个愿意合作的国家询问一千零一人他们期望中的新目标是什么?特别是那些最贫穷的没有机会使用现代化科技的人确保他们的想法成为这些未来目标的核心
en:So first of all, we&#39;ve got to ground this campaignin core polling data.Let&#39;s go into every country that will let us in,ask 1,001 people what they wantthe new goals to be, making special effortsto reach the poorest, those without accessto modern technology, and let&#39;s make sure that their viewsare at the center of the goals going forward.
时间： 5:39
zh-cn:然后，通过调查来建立基线资料以确保我们可以监管这些目标并持续推进先前设定的目标就没有具备合适的基线资料在执行过程里，我们会需要这些海量的资料以确认我们的监督进度
en:Then, we&#39;ve got to commission a baseline surveyto make sure we can monitor and progress the goalsgoing forward. The original goals didn&#39;t really havegood baseline survey data,and we&#39;re going to need the help of big data through all of this process to make surewe can really monitor the progress.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:接着，我们要把广大群众结合起来现在，我看到空前的、非常庞大的群体合作包括社交媒体巨人、新兴企业电信公司、真人秀节目、游戏厂商等全部结合在一起形成「同一个世界」的时刻他们是否能一起合作将「千​​年发展目标」转变为「千年世代的目标」？如果这些相连的五十亿人口中能有百分之五共同表达意见并使这些意见变成承诺我们就可以集结这三亿人口的群体力量达成这些目标
en:And then we&#39;ve got to connect with the big crowd.Now here, we see the role for an unprecedented coalitionof social media giants and upstarts,telecoms companies, reality TV show formats,gaming companies, telecoms, all of them togetherin kind of their &quot;We Are The World&quot; moment.Could they come together and helpthe Millennium Development Goals get rebrandedinto the Millennial Generation&#39;s Goals?And if just five percent of the five billion pluswho are currently connected made a comment,and that comment turned into a commitment,we could crowdsource a force of 300 million peoplearound the world to help see these goals through.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:如果我们拥有这些集合资料，和这群联结起来的民众依据我们过往的游说经验我们将可以使世界领袖们做出承诺我想世界领袖们愿意为这些群众建议做出承诺
en:If we have this collected data, and this connected crowd,based upon our experience of campaigningand getting world leaders to commit,I think world leaders will committo most of the crowdsourced recommendations.
时间： 6:50
zh-cn:但真正的问题是，通过这些过程我们大家也都为此承诺了吗？如果是，我们准备好去重复改进、监督和提供回覆以确保这些承诺会有成果吗？
en:But the question really is, through this processwill we all have become committed?And if we are, are we ready to iterate, monitorand provide feedback, make sure these promisesare really delivering results?
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:这里有些很棒的实例，很适合扩大规模这些大多是在非洲的做的试点项目有一个叫做“肯亚开放数据”的网路平台由当地民众汇报讯息组成包括各项援助专案，运用在哪里，成果如何通常，援助资源没被用在最需要的地方而Ushahidi这间公司（Swahili语，意为眼见为凭）整理收集来的复杂紧急状况及地理位置讯息并将帮助传达到目标的地方这是发展和民主之中最令人兴奋的东西这些位于边陲地带的人们都在协助强力开发这个进程确保来自顶层的大规模全球援助承诺能够确实被传递到居于底层人民基层逆转改变成了倒置的金字塔，这种开放，这种强制性开放是关键如果这还不够完全的透明我还要说：我还有完全透明的目的
en:Well, there&#39;s some fantastic examples here to scale up,mostly piloted within Africa, actually.There&#39;s Open Data Kenya, which geocodesand crowdsources information about where projects are,are they delivering results.Often, they&#39;re not in the right place.And Ushahidi, which means &quot;witness&quot; in Swahili,which geocodes and crowdsources informationin complex emergencies to help target responses.This is some of the most exciting stuffin development and democracy,where citizens on the edge of a networkare helping to force open the processto make sure that the big global aid promisesand vague stuff up at the top really delivers for peopleat a grassroots level and inverts that pyramid.This openness, this forcing openness, is key,and if it wasn&#39;t entirely transparent already,I should be open: I&#39;ve got a completely transparent agenda.
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:根据长期的趋势这个世纪的生活环境将会更艰困人口增加、消费扩张争夺稀有的自然资源的冲突而回首今日的全球政局比如上周才举行的里约地球高峰会还有同样上周举办的墨西哥G20会议这两者，老实说都是失败的我们的世界领袖和全球政治目前都无法把事做好他们需要我们的帮忙，他们需要援兵而这援兵不会天外飞来是来自于我们我看到这种是由下至上的民主过程是重要的方式世界想要通力合作要透过此，集合群众力量真正地在21世纪重振全球共同治理的计划
en:Long-term trends suggest that this centuryis going to be a tough place to live,with population increases, consumption patterns increasing,and conflict over scarce natural resources.And look at the state of global politics today.Look at the Rio Earth Summit that happened just last week,or the Mexican G20, also last week.Both, if we&#39;re honest, a bust.Our world leaders, our global politics,currently can&#39;t get it done.They need our help. They need the cavalry,and the cavalry&#39;s not going to come from Mars.It&#39;s got to come from us, and I see this processof deciding democratically in a bottom-up fashionwhat the world wants to work on togetheras one vital means by which we can crowdsourcethe force to really build that constituencythat&#39;s going to reinvigorate global governancein the 21st century.
时间： 8:51
zh-cn:从2000年开始，将在2030年结束
en:I started in 2000. Let me finish in 2030.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:几年前，很多人嘲弄一个称做「让贫穷走入历史」的大型运动在很多人心里认为，那实在很天真这也是事实那不过是一句T恤上的标语罢了但是，生活水平在1点25美元以下的人口已逐渐下降在2030年会达到什么水平？它将几乎消失现在肯定的是，中国及印度的贫穷比例的降低将会是关键最近，非洲的贫穷比率也在在降低然而数字越接近零，将越困难因为贫穷将持续出现在战争过后、脆弱的地区或着在中等收入的国家那些没有注意到边缘化的人但我有信心，藉由正确的政治运动和具有创造力和科技化的革新一起运作，同心协力我想我们可以达到我们目的甚至其他
en:Many people made fun of a big campaign a few years agowe had called Make Poverty History.It was a naive thought in many people&#39;s minds,and it&#39;s true, it was just a t-shirt sloganthat worked for the moment. But look.The empirical condition of living under a dollar and 25is trending down, and look where it gets to by 2030.It&#39;s getting near zero.Now sure, progress in China and Indiaand poverty reduction there was key to that,but recently also in Africa, poverty rates are being reduced.It will get harder as we get towards zero,as the poor will be increasingly locatedin post-conflict, fragile states,or maybe in middle income stateswhere they don&#39;t really care about the marginalized.But I&#39;m confident, with the right kind of political campaigningand creative and technological innovation combinedworking together more and more as one,I think we can get this and other goals done.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you. (Applause)
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
时间：10:01
zh-cn:(主持人) 杰米，我有个问题如果今天有个事件有一百名孩童死于某个悲剧的情况也许有一百个孩子被绑架，然后被特警解救了我的意思是，它将会在新闻版面宣扬一整个礼拜，对吧?而你刚刚说其中一个数字是5000，没错吧?
en:Chris Anderson: Jamie, here&#39;s the puzzle to me.If there was an incident today where a hundred kidsdied in some tragedy or where, say, a hundred kidswere kidnapped and then rescued by special forces,I mean, it would be all over the news for a week, right?You just put up, just as one of your numbers there,that 5,000 — is that the number?
时间：10:22
zh-cn:是指每天有5000名孩童免于死亡
en:Jamie Drummond: Fewer children every day.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:每天将有5000名孩童免于死亡这很了不起，比任何实体的新闻事件更了不起但这却没有人晓得而这一定让你气坏了
en:CA: Five thousand fewer children dying every day.I mean, it dwarfs, dwarfs everythingthat is actually on our news agenda, and it&#39;s invisible.This must drive you crazy.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:(讲者) 的确，而且我们还在争论援金规模的问题例如，仅仅给金钱援助并不是完整的解决方式没人会这么想但你知道，如果人们看到这些明智援助的成果大家一定会为欣喜若狂我多希望那25万在此前游行的人们能知道这些成果目前他们也许还并不晓得，而如果我们能够用有效的方式善加传播这些成果那就再好不过了，但事实并非如此目前为止，我们没能找到合适的方式去传播这些成功结果如果这些努力能够加以扩大传播出去在关键时刻更是大声放送我相信这一定能产生更好的政策墨西哥G20会议不该是个失败的会议在里约，如果有任何人真的关心环境会议也不会徒劳无功，对吧？但是这些会议的进行我知道人们会怀疑并且嘲笑这些全球峰会以及他们从来没有兑现的承诺但实际上，所有正在发生的件件小事都在做出他们的改变政治家们需要的是大众的认可
en:JD: It does, and we&#39;re having a huge debate in this countryabout aid levels, for example, and aid alone is notthe whole solution. Nobody thinks it is.But, you know, if people saw the results of this smart aid,I mean, they&#39;d be going crazy for it.I wish the 250,000 people who really did marchoutside this very building knew these results.Right now they don&#39;t, and it would be great to find a wayto better communicate it, because we have not.Creatively, we&#39;ve failed to communicate this success so far.If those kinds of efforts just could multiply their voiceand amplify it at the key moments, I know for a factwe&#39;d get better policy.The Mexican G20 need not have been a bust.Rio, if anyone cares about the environment,need not have been a bust, okay?But these conferences are going on,and I know people get skeptical and cynicalabout the big global summits and the promisesand their never being kept, but actually,the bits that are, are making a difference,and what the politicians needis more permission from the public.
时间：11:33
zh-cn:(主持人) 但是你并没有完全建成全套的网络机制来帮助这件事发生如果在场有对开放平台有经验的人才在，你将有兴趣和他们接触继续进一步推动这项平台吧
en:CA: But you haven&#39;t fully worked out the Web mechanisms, etc.by which this might happen.I mean, if the people here who&#39;ve had experienceusing open platforms, you&#39;re interested to talk with themthis week and try to take this forward.
时间：11:43
zh-cn:(讲者) 当然会(主持人) 我想说的是，如果这场会议帮助给这个想法一些进展就非常了不起了如果你的计划继续推进，真的会非常棒所以非常感谢你
en:JD: Absolutely. CA: All right, well I must say,if this conference led in some wayto advancing that idea, that&#39;s a huge idea,and if you carry that forward, that is really awesome,so thank you. JD: I&#39;d love your help.
时间：11:55
zh-cn:(讲者) 感谢您的帮助
en:CA: Thank you, thank you.
时间：11:57
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
