时间： 0:11
zh-cn:请看这幅图。大家知道这是什么吗？我是一个接受过训练的分子生物学家。因此我已经看过了很多这类图片。他们通常被称作模型图片,展示我们对细胞或分子过程是如何进行的理解。这幅图描述的是这样一个过程,它叫网格蛋白介质的内吞。该过程是指一个分子可以从细胞外转运入细胞内。转入的方式是通过先被捕捉进小泡或囊中,随后被细胞内在化。但这幅图有一个问题,这个问题主要是这幅图所没有表现的东西。从大量的实验中,从大量不同的科学家身上,我们对这些分子的样子,它们是如何在细胞内移动的了解很多。这些都发生在一个不可思议的动态的环境中。
en:Take a look at this drawing.Can you tell what it is?I&#39;m a molecular biologist by training,and I&#39;ve seen a lot of these kinds of drawings.They&#39;re usually referred to as a model figure,a drawing that shows how we thinka cellular or molecular process occurs.This particular drawing is of a processcalled clathrin-mediated endocytosis.It&#39;s a process by which a molecule can getfrom the outside of the cell to the insideby getting captured in a bubble or a vesiclethat then gets internalized by the cell.There&#39;s a problem with this drawing, though,and it&#39;s mainly in what it doesn&#39;t show.From lots of experiments,from lots of different scientists,we know a lot about what these molecules look like,how they move around in the cell,and that this is all taking placein an incredibly dynamic environment.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:因此，在与网格蛋白专家托马斯·科切豪斯合作中,我们决定创造一个新的模型图片。它可以展示所有的细节。于是我们从细胞外开始。现在，我们看到的是内部。网格蛋白就是那些三条腿的分子。它们可以自己组合成足球的形状。通过膜的相互连接,网格蛋白可以使膜发生变形,然后形成这种像杯子一样的形状接着形成这种像小泡或小囊样的形状,现在它正在捕捉一些细胞外的蛋白质。蛋白质正在进入，基本上掐断了小囊,使得它从膜上分离开来。现在，网格蛋白基本上已经完成了它的使命,于是，蛋白质就进来了。我们用黄色和橙色来标记它们。它们负责将网格蛋白形成的笼子拆开,于是所有这些蛋白质基本上都可以循环,重新加以利用。
en:So in collaboration with a clathrinexpert Tomas Kirchhausen,we decided to create a new kind of model figurethat showed all of that.So we start outside of the cell.Now we&#39;re looking inside.Clathrin are these three-legged moleculesthat can self-assemble into soccer-ball-like shapes.Through connections with a membrane,clathrin is able to deform the membraneand form this sort of a cupthat forms this sort of a bubble, or a vesicle,that&#39;s now capturing some of the proteinsthat were outside of the cell.Proteins are coming in now thatbasically pinch off this vesicle,making it separate from the rest of the membrane,and now clathrin is basically done with its job,and so proteins are coming in now —we&#39;ve covered them yellow and orange —that are responsible for takingapart this clathrin cage.And so all of these proteinscan get basically recycledand used all over again.
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:这些过程太小了以至于无法看到,即使是用最好的显微镜,因此，像这样的动画就提供了一个强大的工具把一个假说可视化。
en:These processes are too small to be seen directly,even with the best microscopes,so animations like this provide a really powerful wayof visualizing a hypothesis.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:这是另一个例子,这幅图展示了研究人员是如何猜想艾滋病毒进入与离开细胞的。同样，这是一个极大的简化,而且还没开始显示,我们对这些过程实际的了解。
en:Here&#39;s another illustration,and this is a drawing of how a researcher might thinkthat the HIV virus gets into and out of cells.And again, this is a vast oversimplificationand doesn&#39;t begin to showwhat we actually know about these processes.
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:你可能会惊奇的发现,这些简单的图画就是绝大多数生物学家可视化他们分子假说的唯一途径。为什么？因为将我们认为实际上发生的过程用电影的形式创作出来是非常困难的。我在好莱坞花了数个月学习三维动画软件。每一个动画我都花了数月来制作。这些时间对大多数研究员来说太长了。但是，回报也是巨大的。分子动画是前所未有的。它们能向广大的观众传达大量精准的信息。我现在正从事一个新的项目,它的名字叫“艾滋病病毒的科学”。在这个项目中，我会尽可能准确地将HIV病毒的整个生命周期用动画描绘出来，所有的这些都会细致到分子级别。动画会取材于数千名科学家在近几十年来收集的数据。这些数据告诉我们这种病毒的形态,它如何感染我们身体中的细胞,以及如何对感染进行治疗。
en:You might be surprised to knowthat these simple drawings are the only waythat most biologists visualizetheir molecular hypotheses.Why?Because creating movies of processesas we think they actually occur is really hard.I spent months in Hollywoodlearning 3D animation software,and I spend months on each animation,and that&#39;s just time that mostresearchers can&#39;t afford.The payoffs can be huge, though.Molecular animations are unparalleledin their ability to convey a great deal of informationto broad audiences with extreme accuracy.And I&#39;m working on a new project nowcalled &quot;The Science of HIV&quot;where I&#39;ll be animating the entire life cycleof the HIV virus as accurately as possibleand all in molecular detail.The animation will feature datafrom thousands of researcherscollected over decades,data on what this virus looks like,how it&#39;s able to infect cells in our body,and how therapeutics arehelping to combat infection.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:多年以来，我发现动画不仅仅便于交流思想,它们同样在探索假说上发挥作用。许多生物学家仍使用笔和纸来将他们研究的过程可视化,使用的也是我们目前已有的数据,但这远远不够。创作动画的过程可以像催化剂一样，让研究人员把想法清晰化，使之完善。我与一位研究员合作过,她的研究方向是神经变性疾病的分子机理她提出一些与动画有直接相关的实验，于是我和她齐心协力,这样，动画就能反馈到研究过程中。
en:Over the years, I found that animationsaren&#39;t just useful for communicating an idea,but they&#39;re also really usefulfor exploring a hypothesis.Biologists for the most part arestill using a paper and pencilto visualize the processes they study,and with the data we have now,that&#39;s just not good enough anymore.The process of creating an animationcan act as a catalyst that allows researchersto crystalize and refine their own ideas.One researcher I worked withwho works on the molecular mechanismsof neurodegenerative diseasescame up with experiments that were relateddirectly to the animation thatshe and I worked on together,and in this way, animation canfeed back into the research process.
时间： 3:56
zh-cn:我相信动画能够改变生物学。它可以改变我们与他人的交流方式,我们如何分析数据,以及我们如何教育学生。但要想这些改变发生,我们需要更多的研究人员创作动画。为实现这一目标，我召集了一支由生物学家、动画师和程序员组成的团队。开发了一款全新的、免费的、开源的软件。我们称它为“分子原始动画”。它为生物学家而生,专门用来创作分子动画。测试显示，仅需要15分钟一个从未接触动画软件的生物学家就可以将她的假说猜想创作成她的第一个分子动画。我们同时也建立了一个在线数据库,任何人都可以查看、下载以及上传他们自己的动画。我们非常激动地宣布这款分子动画制作软件的测试版今天就可以下载了。看到生物学家用它来创作东西以及他们从自己创作的动画中得到的启示我们为此感到激动不已。
en:I believe that animation can change biology.It can change the way that wecommunicate with one another,how we explore our dataand how we teach our students.But for that change to happen,we need more researchers creating animations,and toward that end, I brought together a teamof biologists, animators and programmersto create a new, free, open-source software —we call it Molecular Flipbook —that&#39;s created just for biologistsjust to create molecular animations.From our testing, we&#39;ve foundthat it only takes 15 minutesfor a biologist who has nevertouched animation software beforeto create her first molecular animationof her own hypothesis.We&#39;re also building an online databasewhere anyone can view, download and contributetheir own animations.We&#39;re really excited to announcethat the beta version of the molecular animationsoftware toolkit will be available for download today.We are really excited to seewhat biologists will create with itand what new insights they&#39;re able to gainfrom finally being able to animatetheir own model figures.
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
