时间： 0:12
zh-cn:下午好，晚上好（，怎么说都行。）或者我们也可以说，jambo，guten abend，bonsoir，又或者……黑猩猩在晚上睡觉前就是这么打招呼的你听见这种叫声从山谷这头传到那头从一群猩猩窝传到另一群猩猩窝
en:Good afternoon, good evening, whatever.We can go, jambo, guten Abend, bonsoir,but we can also ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.That is the call that chimpanzees makebefore they go to sleep in the evening.You hear it going from one side of the valley to the other,from one group of nests to the next.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:我今晚的演讲想从（考古学家）泽雷·阿兰希格昨天留下的话题开始他谈的是这个令人惊异的灵长类幼仔，叫Selam，三岁大我们还听了通过测绘DNA基因所得的人类的历史和族谱已故古生物学家路易斯·李奇是他把我引上研究黑猩猩之路的回顾过去，这条路实在不同寻常现在看来比较普通可他的论据是，因为他曾寻找在非洲的早期人类化石遗迹——这些化石上，从附属肌肉的形状上，对于那些早期人类的模样像什么都能给研究者很多启示从由他们身边发现的原始工具上可以看出一些关于他们生活方式的端倪但他们的行为表现是什么样的？这是他想知道的当然，行为没有在化石里体现他辨称(这个理论现在看来稀松平常)如果我们发现当代人类在行为模式上与和其最相近的物种巨猿相似或者相同那么或许这些行为在大概七百万年前在似猿似人的祖先身上存在过因此，也许我们身上的那些行为特征是从远古时代传下来的
en:And I want to pick up with my talk this eveningfrom where Zeray left off yesterday.He was talking about this amazing, three-year-old Australopithecine child, Selam.And we&#39;ve also been hearing about the history, the family tree, of mankindthrough DNA genetic profiling.And it was a paleontologist, the late Louis Leakey,who actually set me on the path for studying chimpanzees.And it was pretty extraordinary, way back then.It&#39;s kind of commonplace now,but his argument was — because he&#39;d been searchingfor the fossilized remains of early humans in Africa.And you can tell an awful lotabout what those beings looked like from the fossils,from the shape of the muscle attachments,something about the way they livedfrom the various artifacts found with them.But what about how they behaved? That&#39;s what he wanted to know.And of course, behavior doesn&#39;t fossilize.He argued — and it&#39;s now a fairly common theory —that if we found behavior patterns similar or the samein our closest living relatives, the great apes, and humans today,then maybe those behaviors were present in the ape-like,human-like ancestor some seven million years ago.And therefore, perhaps we had brought those characteristics with usfrom that ancient, ancient past.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:噢，如果你看一下现在讲人类进化的书就会常常发现，人们是基于黑猩猩的行为表现来思考早期人类可能的行为方式与别的存活动物相比，他们更像我们这一点我在这次TED会议中听到过所以我今天要讲的就是黑猩猩是在其行为方式的与人类的相似点
en:Well, if you look in textbooks today that deal with human evolution,you very often find people speculating about how early humansmay have behaved, based on the behavior of chimpanzees.They are more like us than any other living creature,and we&#39;ve heard about that during this TED Conference.So it remains for me to comment on the ways in which chimpanzeesare so like us, in certain aspects of their behavior.
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:每个黑猩猩都有他/她自己的个性当然，我给他们起名字。他们能活60岁或者更长尽管我们觉得他们中的绝大多数在野生环境活不到60岁这是Wurzel猩猩。母猩猩在11或12岁时生第一个孩子之后每五年或每六年她只生一仔这么长的童年期内小猩猩很有依赖性，需要照料晚上和妈妈一起睡，骑在她背上我们认为这么长的童年期对黑猩猩很重要，这牵涉到学习，就像童年之于我们一样在各种不同形态动物的进化过程中由于大脑变得日益复杂我们发现，在一种个体的生命历程中学习的作用日益重要年纪小的黑猩猩花很长时间观察它们的长辈做什么我们现在知道，他们能模仿所见的行为表现我们认为正是由此从那些在非洲研究的所有不同黑猩猩种群身上看到的使用工具的不同行为——这些行为是怎样通过观察、模仿和实践从一代传到另一代的所以，我们可以把这些使用工具的行为说成是原始文化
en:Every chimpanzee has his or her own personality.Of course, I gave them names. They can live to be 60 years or more,although we think most of them probably don&#39;t make it to 60 in the wild.Mr. Wurzel. The female has her first baby when she&#39;s 11 or 12.Thereafter, she has one baby only every five or six years,a long period of childhood dependency when the child is nursing,sleeping with the mother at night, and riding on her back.And we believe that this long period of childhoodis important for chimpanzees, just as it is for us, in relation to learning.As the brain becomes ever more complexduring evolution in different forms of animals,so we find that learning plays an ever more important rolein an individual&#39;s life history.And young chimpanzees spend a lot of time watching what their elders do.We know now that they&#39;re capable of imitating behaviors that they see.And we believe that it&#39;s in this waythat the different tool-using behaviors — that have now been seenin all the different chimpanzee populations studied in Africa —how these are passed from one generation to the next,through observation, imitation and practice,so that we can describe these tool-using behaviors as primitive culture.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:黑猩猩没有语言，我们以前提到过但他们确实有一整套非常丰富的姿态和动作其中许多与我们的很像，甚至一模一样并且具有相同涵义 黑猩猩打招呼时会拥抱他们也亲吻、牵手、一个拍另一个的背他们也虚张声势地恐吓，或者仍石头在黑猩猩的社会里，我们发现很多很多怜悯、示爱以及真正利他的例子和我们一样，不幸的是，他们也有天性中阴暗的一面他们可以极度凶残，甚至像一种原始战争多数情况下，这些极具攻击性的行为是直接针对相邻社群中个体的这些攻击大多是为了争夺地盘我觉得，与别的生物相比黑猩猩更有助于我们认识到，人类和动物王国里的其他成员终归并无明显界限
en:Chimpanzees don&#39;t have a spoken language. We&#39;ve talked about that.They do have a very rich repertoire of postures and gestures,many of which are similar, or even identical, to oursand formed in the same context. Greeting chimpanzees embracing.They also kiss, hold hands, pat one another on the back.And they swagger and they throw rocks.In chimpanzee society, we find many, many examples of compassion,precursors to love and true altruism.Unfortunately, they, like us, have a dark side to their nature.They&#39;re capable of extreme brutality, even a kind of primitive war.And these really aggressive behaviors, for the most part,are directed against individuals of the neighboring social group.They are very territorially aggressive.Chimpanzees, I believe, more than any other living creature,have helped us to understand that, after all, there is no sharp linebetween humans and the rest of the animal kingdom.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:这种界限非常模糊，并且随着我们更多的观察会一直更加模糊下去我1960年开始的研究一直持续到现在这些黑猩猩在野生环境过着复杂的社会生活最重要的是，他们帮助我们认识到，我们与形形色色的动物在地球上共处，我们是其中一部分不能与这些动物分割开来所以，发现黑猩猩和世界上其他众多生物一样失去聚居地，是很让人难过的这只是一张从空中拍的照片你可以看到森林覆盖的Gombe高地16年前，我走遍整个地区意识到在公园之外，这片森林在1960年时沿着Tanganyika湖东岸绵延不绝小巧的、面积只有30平方英里的Gombe国家公园就坐落在这里那时一个问题进入我脑海——“我们怎么能进而去试图拯救这些出了名的黑猩猩，而住在国家公园周围的人却在为生存而挣扎？”那里人口众多，非单薄的土地所能承受随着来自布隆迪的难民涌入来自刚果的人跨湖过来，住在那里的人数增加着那些人非常穷——无力从别的地方买吃的
en:It&#39;s a very blurry line, and it&#39;s getting more blurry all the timeas we make even more observations.The study that I began in 1960 is still continuing to this day.And these chimpanzees, living their complex social lives in the wild,have helped — more than anything else —to make us realize we are part of, and not separated from,the amazing animals with whom we share the planet.So it&#39;s pretty sad to find that chimpanzees,like so many other creatures around the world, are losing their habitats.This is just one photograph from the air,and it shows you the forested highlands of Gombe.And it was when I flew over the whole area, about 16 years ago,and realized that outside the park, this forest,which in 1960 had stretched almost unbrokenalong the eastern shore of Lake Tanganyika,which is where the tiny, 30-square-mile Gombe National Park lies,that a question came to my mind.&quot;How can we even try to save these famous chimpanzees,when the people living around the National Park are struggling to survive?&quot;More people are living there than the land could possibly support.The numbers increased by refugees pouring in from Burundiand over the lake from Congo.And very poor people — they couldn&#39;t afford to buy food from elsewhere.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:一个计划由此产生，我们称之为“关爱”(Take Care)它用整体化的方式来改善住在湖周围村子里的人的生活刚开始是小规模的，有12个村子。现在是24个这里没有时间去深入介绍，不过该计划包括象林木苗圃等事情，以及适于在山上这片目前严重剥蚀几近沙漠的土地上耕种的方法控制、防止土地侵蚀的方法收回过度使用的农田的方法以便两年内这些农田可以重新有收成帮助村民从井里取得淡水或许建一些校舍我认为最重要的是与小规模群体妇女合作给她们提供微型信用贷款的机会全世界的情况一样，在所有贷款中我们收回了大约95%使妇女能够受教育后工作给女孩子提供奖学金，以便让她们完成中学学业很清楚，世界各地妇女的教育程度提高了，家庭人口数目就会下降我们提供计划生育和艾滋病及其病毒(HIV/AIDS)方面的信息
en:This led to a program, which we call TACARE.It&#39;s a very holistic way of improving the livesof the people living in the villages around the park.It started small with 12 villages. It&#39;s now in 24.There isn&#39;t time to go into it, but it&#39;s including things like tree nurseries,methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded,almost desert-like land up in these mountains.Ways of controlling, preventing soil erosion.Ways of reclaiming overused farmland,so that within two years they can again be productive.Working to help the villagers obtain fresh water from wells.Perhaps build some schoolrooms.Most important of all, I believe,is working with small groups of women,providing them with opportunities for micro-credit loans.And we&#39;ve got, as is the case around the world,about 95 percent of all loans returned.Empowering women, working with education,providing scholarships for girls so they can finish secondary school,in the clear understanding that, all around the world,as women&#39;s education improves, family size drops.We provide information about family planning and about HIV/AIDS.
时间： 8:13
zh-cn:这项计划实施之后自然保护方面发生了一些事情自然保护方面发生的事情是，住在这24个村子里的农民并没有把我们看成是跑来研究整个一伙儿猴子的一伙儿白人顺便说一下，现在很多工作人员是坦桑尼亚人而当我们开始“关爱”计划时进入村子的是一个坦桑尼亚小组和村民交谈的是一个坦桑尼亚小组询问村民对什么感兴趣他们对自然保护感兴趣吗？一点也不他们对健康感兴趣，他们对教育感兴趣随着时间推移，随着他们境况开始改善他们开始不断理解更多有关自然保护的必要性他们开始理解当山上较高位置的数被砍光以后可怕的土地侵蚀和泥流就来了
en:And as a result of this program,something&#39;s happening for conservation.What&#39;s happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages,instead of looking on us as a bunch of white peoplecoming to study a whole bunch of monkeys —and by the way, many of the staff are now Tanzanian —but when we began the TACARE program,it was a Tanzanian team going into the villages.It was a Tanzanian team talking to the villagers,asking what they were interested in.Were they interested in conservation? Absolutely not.They were interested in health; they were interested in education.And as time went on, and as their situation began to improve,they began to understand ever more about the need for conservation.They began to understandthat as the upper levels of the hills were denuded of trees,so you&#39;ve got this terrible soil erosion and mudslides.
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:现在，我们正在开发所说的大Gombe生态系统这是一片国家公园以外的地区绵延包括了所有这些各种各样剥蚀了的土地由于这些村子生活标准高一些他们实际上同意把他们土地的10-20%放到高地一侧以便当树长回来时黑猩猩会再次拥有绿色走廊它们可以借此穿行以便——这是他们基因繁殖所必需的——与国家公园外其它残余群体互动所以“关爱”计划成功了我们在非洲其它地区复制这项计划在其它面临极端人口压力的荒野之地
en:Today, we are developing what we call the Greater Gombe Ecosystem.This is an area way outside the National Park,stretching out into all these very degraded lands.And as these villages have a better standard of life,they are actually agreeing to putbetween 10 percent and 20 percent of their land in the highlands aside,so that once again, as the trees grow back,the chimpanzees will have leafy corridorsthrough which they can travel to interact —as they must for genetic viability —with other remnant groups outside the National Park.So TACARE is a success.We&#39;re replicating it in other parts of Africa,around other wilderness areaswhich are faced with extreme population pressure.
时间：10:03
zh-cn:但是，就像我们在TED开始的所有这几天一直讨论的非洲的问题是主要问题那里非常贫穷有大量的人生活在不那么肥沃的土地上尤其当你把树砍倒使得土壤裸露，任风侵蚀同时处于绝望的人砍倒越来越多的树以便为他们自己和家人努力培育粮食这样会发生什么？有些东西会开始牺牲让步还有别的问题——不仅在非洲而且是其它所有发展中世界，甚至是地球上所有地方我们在对我们的地球做什么呢？著名科学家，E.O. 威尔逊说过，如果地球上每个人的生活标准都达到欧美平均水平我们就再需要三个地球今天他们说是四个。可我们没那些个，我们只有一个
en:The problems in Africa, however, as we&#39;ve been discussingfor the whole of these first couple of days of TED,are major problems.There is a great deal of poverty.And when you get large numbers of peopleliving in land that is not that fertile,particularly when you cut down trees,and you leave the soil open to the wind for erosion,as desperate populations cut down more and more trees,so that they can try and grow food for themselves and their families,what&#39;s going to happen? Something&#39;s got to give.And the other problems — in not only Africa,but the rest of the developing world and, indeed, everywhere —what are we doing to our planet?You know, the famous scientist, E. O. Wilsonsaid that if every person on this planetattains the standard of living of the average European or American,we need three new planets.Today, they are saying four. But we don&#39;t have them. We&#39;ve got one.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:发生了什么？我是说，这里的问题是，我们在这里或许可称为地球上有史以来最有智慧的生命有着非凡的大脑能够运用这些TED会议上阐述备至的这些技术但我们却在毁坏着这个惟一的家园全球各地的原住民在做重要决定前都会坐到一起，然后问“这决定如何影响我们接下来的七代人？”今天，重要决定——我这里不特别谈非洲而是发达世界——牵涉几百万美元以及以及几百万人的重要决定却只是问“这会如何影响下次股东大会？”这些决定却影响非洲
en:And what&#39;s happened? I mean, the question here is, here we are,arguably the most intelligent being that&#39;s ever walked planet Earth,with this extraordinary brain,capable of the kind of technologythat is so well illustrated by these TED Conferences,and yet we&#39;re destroying the only home we have.The indigenous people around the world,before they made a major decision,used to sit around and ask themselves,&quot;How does this decision affect our people seven generations ahead?&quot;Today, major decisions — and I&#39;m not particularly talking about Africa here,but the developed world —major decisions involving millions of dollars,and millions of people, are often based on,&quot;How will this affect the next shareholders&#39; meeting?&quot;And these decisions affect Africa.
时间：12:06
zh-cn:当我开始游历非洲谈论黑猩猩面临的问题及其日益消逝的森林我愈来愈意识到如此之多的非洲问题是如何与以前的殖民开发有关的因此我开始在非洲之外旅行，在欧洲演讲在美国演讲，去亚洲每一地都有这些糟糕的问题你知道我说的是什么问题，这包括污染问题我们呼吸的空气经常毒害我们泥土毒害我们的食物水——水也许是本世纪我们要面对的最要紧问题之一每一地，水都被农业、工业、家用化学制品所污染全世界都还在喷这些制品似乎没办法从过去的经验获利红树被砍倒海啸等影响日益加重我们谈过土壤侵蚀我们不计后果地烧过化石燃料连同其它所谓温室气体导致了气候变化终于，全世界的人都开始相信有什么事发生了，我们的气候不对劲儿了
en:As I began traveling around Africatalking about the problems faced by chimpanzees and their vanishing forests,I realized more and more how so many of Africa&#39;s problemscould be laid at the door of previous colonial exploitation.So I began traveling outside Africa, talking in Europe,talking in the United States, going to Asia.And everywhere there were these terrible problems.And you know the kind I&#39;m talking about. I&#39;m talking about pollution.The air that we breathe that often poisons us.The earth is poisoning our foods.The water — water is perhaps one of the most crucial issuesthat we&#39;re going to face in this century —and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural,industrial and household chemicalsthat still are being sprayed around the world,seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience.The mangroves are being cut down;the effects of things like the tsunami get worse.We&#39;ve talked about the soil erosion.We have the reckless burning of fossil fuelsalong with other greenhouse gasses, so called,leading to climate change.Finally, all around the world, people have begun to believethat there is something going on very wrong with our climate.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:全球气候互相牵连最受不利影响的是穷人已经受影响的是非洲在次撒哈拉非洲的许多地区，干旱非常严重雨终于下起来时，又常常导致洪水及更多的不幸，贫穷、饥饿和疾病周而复始还有很多人住在土地供养不起的地区太穷，买不起食物因为全部土地都剥蚀了，所以也没法离开于是有了沙漠化——一点点漫延，漫延，漫延——同时最后的树也被砍倒这种事情不光在非洲 遍布全球
en:All around the world climates are mixed up.And it&#39;s the poor people who are affected worse.It&#39;s Africa that already is affected.In many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, the droughts are so much worse.And when the rain does come, it so often leads to floodingand added distress, and the cycle of poverty and hunger and disease.And the numbers of people living in an area that the land cannot support,who are too poor to buy food,who can&#39;t move away because the whole land is degraded.And so you get desertification — creeping, creeping, creeping —as the last of the trees are cut down.And this kind of thing is not just in Africa. It&#39;s all over the world.
时间：14:13
zh-cn:所以我不觉得奇怪当我在世界各地旅行时碰到那么多年轻人，他们看上去失去了希望我们似乎已经失去了智慧，那种属于原住民的智慧我想问，这是为什么？你们觉得在这异常聪明的大脑TED技术作为例证的那种大脑和人的心脏之间会有某种隔绝吗？用非科学的术语来谈谈根据爱和同情。有隔绝吗？这些年轻人，当我和他们讲话时基本上他们要么情绪低落，要么无动于衷或者痛苦、愤怒 他们或多或少说的是同一件事情“我们这么感觉是因为我们觉得你们损害了我们的未来，并且我们对此无能为力。”
en:So it wasn&#39;t surprising to methat as I was traveling around the worldI met so many young people who seemed to have lost hope.We seem to have lost wisdom, the wisdom of the indigenous people.I asked a question. &quot;Why?&quot;Well, do you think there could be some kind of disconnectbetween this extraordinarily clever brain,the kind of brain that the TED technologies exemplify,and the human heart? Talking about it in the non-scientific term,in terms of love and compassion. Is there some disconnect?And these young people, when I talk to them,basically they were either depressed or apathetic,or bitter and angry. And they said more or less the same thing,&quot;We feel this way because we feel you&#39;ve compromised our futureand there&#39;s nothing we can do about it.&quot;
时间：15:10
zh-cn:我们确实已经毁坏了他们的未来我有三个小孙子，每次看着他们我就想，从我像他们那么大以来，我们是如何损害这个美丽的地球的我感觉到这种绝望我们由此开展这项我们称之为“根与芽”的计划恰好始于这里，坦桑尼亚现在已经传播到世界上97个国家项目的名字是具有象征意义的 根造就坚实的基础芽看上去细小，在阳光照耀下却可穿破砖墙——砖可以看成是我们给地球造成的环境的和社会的问题 这是希望的讯息世界各地成千上万的年轻人可以取得突破，为了所有生物，让这个世界更美好“根与芽”的最重要讯息——每一天，我们每一个人都在改变世界我们有一个选择 这屋子里我们每一个人我们都有一个选择，关于我们想做些什么来改变世界很穷的人没有选择 我们要改变这些事以便穷人也有选择
en:We have compromised their future.I&#39;ve got three little grandchildren, and every time I look at themand I think how we&#39;ve harmed this beautiful planet since I was their age,I feel this desperation.And that led to this program we call Roots and Shoots,which began right here in Tanzaniaand has now spread to 97 countries around the world.It&#39;s symbolic. Roots make a firm foundation.Shoots seem tiny; to reach the sun they can break through a brick wall.See the brick wall as all these problems we&#39;ve inflicted on the planet,environmental and social. It&#39;s a message of hope.Hundreds and thousands of young people around the worldcan break through and can make this a better world for all living things.The most important message of Roots and Shoots:every single one of us makes a difference, every single day.We have a choice. Every one of us in this room,we have a choice as to what kind of difference we want to make.The very poor have no choice. It&#39;s up to us to change thingsso that the poor have choice as well.
时间：16:19
zh-cn:“根与芽”小组都选三个方案取决于成员年龄，所在国家在城市还是乡下，来选不同的方案基本上，我们现在的计划从学前一直到大学愈来愈多的成人开始建立他们自己的“根与芽”小组每个小组在彼此之间选择三种不同的方案，来创造更加美好的世界承认所有这些不同问题是互相联系彼此影响的因此他们的方案之一将会帮助他们自己的人类社区然后，如果他们能干，他们可以筹集资金帮助世界上其它地区的社区他们的方案之一将会帮助动物——不光是野生动物也包括家养动物他们的方案之一将会帮助我们共处的环境交织在所有这些方案中的讯息是学着与我们自己、家庭、社区和谐相处，包括国家之间，不同文化之间不同宗教信仰之间，以及我们和自然世界之间我们需要自然世界 我们不能继续象现在这样破坏世界了我们只有一个地球
en:The Roots and Shoots groups all choose three projects.It depends on how old they are, and which country,whether they&#39;re in a city or rural, as to what kinds of projects.But basically, we have programs now from preschool right through university,with more and more adults starting their own Roots and Shoots groups.And every group chooses, between them,three different kinds of project to make this a better world,recognizing that all these different problems are interconnectedand impinge on each other.So one of their projects will be to help their own human community.And then, if they&#39;re able, they may raise money to help communitiesin other parts of the world.One of their projects will be to help animals — not just wildlife,domestic animals as well.And one of their projects will be to help the environment that we all share.And woven throughout all of this is a messageof learning to live in peace and harmony within ourselves,in our families, in our communities, between nations, between cultures,between religions and between us and the natural world.We need the natural world. We cannot go on destroying it at the rate we are.We not do have more than this one planet.
时间：17:38
zh-cn:就在非洲这里，仅仅选出一个或两个“根与芽”小组正在实施的方案只要一个或两个方案——在坦桑尼亚、乌干达、肯尼亚、南非、刚果、布拉扎维、塞拉利昂、喀麦隆以及别的团体。就象我说的，遍布世界97个国家当然，他们种树，他们种有机蔬菜他们在难民营养小鸡卖鸡蛋得些微薄收入或只是把鸡蛋给家人吃并觉得自豪和获得权力因为他们自己种植蔬菜 养殖小鸡就不再无助，不再依赖他人这个方案在乌干达实施了给予前童军一些心理上的帮助实施这些方案让他们重塑自我再一次，他们成为社会上的有用一员我们也在监狱实施该计划所以现在没时间实施更多的“根与芽”计划哦，他们也致力于艾滋病及其病毒方面的工作那是“根与芽”计划非常重要的组成部分由大孩子跟小孩子谈话还有无意怀孕及类似事情年轻人更愿意听别的孩子的，而不是成人的
en:Just picking one or two of the projects right here in Africathat the Roots and Shoots groups are doing,one or two projects only — in Tanzania, in Uganda, Kenya,South Africa, Congo-Brazzaville, Sierra Leone, Cameroonand other groups. And as I say, it&#39;s in 97 countries around the world.Of course, they&#39;re planting trees. They&#39;re growing organic vegetables.They&#39;re working in the refugee camps, with chickensand selling the eggs for a little amount of money,or just using them to feed their families,and feeling a sense of pride and empowerment,because they&#39;re no longer helpless and depending on otherswith their vegetables and their chickens.It&#39;s being used in Ugandato give some psychological help to ex-child soldiers.Doing projects like this is bringing them out of themselves.Once again, they&#39;re useful members of society.We have this program in prisons as well.So, there&#39;s no time for more Roots and Shoots now.But — oh, they&#39;re also working on HIV/AIDS.That&#39;s a very important component of Roots and Shoots,with older kids talking to younger ones.And unwanted pregnancies and things like that,which young people listen to better from other youth, rather than adults.
时间：18:56
zh-cn:希望。我周游世界被问及的就是这个问题“珍，你见过这么多可怕的事情，你看着你的黑猩猩数量在减少，从世纪之交的大约一百万到现在的不足15万。那么多其它动物也一样森林消失，过去是森林的地方变成沙漠你真的有希望？” 嗯，有。你不可能来参加象TED这样的会议，却不报希望，对吧？当然，有希望。希望之一是这令人称奇的人脑
en:Hope. That&#39;s the question I get asked as I&#39;m going around the world:&quot;Jane, you&#39;ve seen so many terrible things,you&#39;ve seen your chimpanzees decrease in numberfrom about one million, at the turn of the century,to no more than 150,000 now, and the same with so many other animals.Forests disappearing, deserts where once there was forest.Do you really have hope?&quot; Well, yes.You can&#39;t come to a conference like TED and not have hope, can you?And of course, there&#39;s hope. One is this amazing human brain.
时间：19:29
zh-cn:我是说，想一想技术我最后还是很激动，碰到人们谈论堆肥厕所这是我爱讨论的话题之一我们就把所有这些水冲下马桶，这很可怕然后谈论了可再生能源，非常重要我们为孩子关心过地球吗？我们多少人有孩子或者孙子、侄子、外甥？我们关心他们的未来吗？如果关心他们的未来，作为全球精英我们可以做些事情。我们可以做决定，每天怎样生活买什么，穿什么决定带着问题做这些选择这会怎样影响我周围的环境？我的孩子长大后，这会怎样影响他或她那时的生活？或者我的孙子，或别的什么。那么人脑，与人心结合——我们全球同心协力那是TED所竭力帮助的，是Google帮了我们ESRI帮我们绘制了Gombe国家公园的地图所有这些我们会用的技术
en:And I mean, think of the technologies.And I&#39;ve just been so thrilled, finally, to come to people talking about compost latrines.It&#39;s one of my hobbyhorses.We just flush all this water down the lavatory, it&#39;s terrible.And then talking about renewable energy — desperately important.Do we care about the planet for our children?How many of us have children or grandchildren, nieces, nephews?Do we care about their future?And if we care about their future, we, as the elite around the world,we can do something about it. We can make choices as to how we live each day.What we buy. What we wear.And choose to make these choices with the question,how will this affect the environment around me?How will it affect the life of my child when he or she grows up?Or my grandchild, or whatever it is.So the human brain, coupled with the human heart,and we join hands around the world.And that&#39;s what TED is helping so well with, and Google who help us,and Esri are helping us with mapping in Gombe National Park.All of these technologies we can use.
时间：20:42
zh-cn:现在让我们把它们连起来，它即将发生，对吧？今天下午你们听过了。它即将发生这变化，这变化；看到我们一定会有的变化，如果我们关心未来的话报有希望的下一个理由——大自然的复员能力令人称奇你可以找一块被全毁了的地区——假以时间，可能还有一些帮助，这地区会重新焕发生机一个例子是“关爱”计划我告诉你，在一块看上去死了的树桩——如果你停止为了烧柴而进行的砍伐你不需要砍伐因为你有小林地那么五年后你会有30英尺的树任何动物，几乎濒于灭绝的，会得到第二次机会。那是我下一本书它鼓舞人心。它带我到我最后一类希望——过去两天我们听了那么多关于这个的即不屈的人类精神。人的这种决心，人类精神的适应力。因此，你觉得会被贫穷、疾病、或别的什么打垮的那些人，可以让自己走出困境有时借助于援手，他们可以参与到社会中参与到变化的世界中
en:Now let&#39;s link them, and it&#39;s beginning to happen, isn&#39;t it?You&#39;ve heard about it this afternoon. It&#39;s beginning to happen.This change, this change. To see changethat we must have if we care about the future.And the next reason for hope — nature is amazingly resilient.You can take an area that&#39;s absolutely destroyed,with time and perhaps some help it can regenerate.And an example is the TACARE program.I told you, where a seemingly dead tree stump —if you stop hacking them for firewood,which you don&#39;t need to because you have wood lots,then in five years you can have a 30-foot tree.And animals, almost on the brink of extinction,can be given a second chance. That&#39;s my next book.It&#39;s inspiring. And it brings me to my last category of hope,and we&#39;ve heard about this so much in the last two days:this indomitable human spirit. This determination of people,the resilience of the human spirit,So that people who you would think would be battered by poverty,or disease, or whatever, can pull themselves up out of it,sometimes with a helping hand, and take their part in society,and take their part in changing the world.
时间：21:55
zh-cn:只要想想真正鼓舞人心的一个或两个人走出非洲我们可以列一个很长的单子可很显然，纳尔逊 曼德拉走出17年的重体力劳动，23年的监禁带着这种令人称奇的能力去宽恕，以便他能领导他的国家走出种族隔离的邪恶体制而不用大屠杀Ken Saro-Wiwa，在尼日利亚，与石油巨头对抗尽管世界各地的人竭尽全力，他还是被处决了像这样的人是多么激动人心这样的人是我们所需要的对非洲年轻人的榜样我们也需要一些环境方面的榜样今天我听了一些关于他们的事情所以我由衷感谢有这次机会来再次分享这些讯息和TED的每一个人我希望我们中的一部分人能聚在一起讨论一下这些事情尤其是“根与芽”计划
en:And just to think of one or two people out of Africa who are just really inspiring.We could make a very long list,but obviously Nelson Mandela, emerging from 17 yearsof hard physical labor, 23 years of imprisonment,with this amazing ability to forgive, so that he could lead his nationout the evil regime of apartheid without a bloodbath.Ken Saro-Wiwa, in Nigeria, who took on the giant oil companies,and although people around the world tried their best, was executed.People like this are so inspirational.People like this are the role models we need for young Africans.And we need some environmental role models as well,and I&#39;ve been hearing some of them today.So I&#39;m really grateful for this opportunity to share this messageagain, with everyone at TED.And I hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things,especially the Roots and Shoots program.
时间：22:54
zh-cn:关于这一点再说最后一句——那个管整个会议中心的年轻姑娘我今天碰到她了她很兴奋地走上前来，拿着她的证书。她参与了“根与芽”她在达累斯萨拉姆的领导层里她说它使她得以做现在的工作见到她我真是非常非常兴奋见到的这个还仅仅是一个例子：当年轻人被赋予权力，给予机会去采取行动去让世界变得更加美好的时候他们实实在在的是我们明天的希望谢谢大家
en:And just a last word on that —the young woman who&#39;s running this entire conference center,I met her today.She came up so excited, with her certificate. She was [in] Roots and Shoots.She was in the leadership in Dar es Salaam.She said it&#39;s helped her to do what she&#39;s doing.And it was very, very exciting for me to meet herand see just one example of how young people,when they are empowered, given the opportunity to take action,to make the world a better place,truly are our hope for tomorrow.Thank you.
时间：23:30
zh-cn:(全场鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
