时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今天我要教大家玩我最爱的游戏「拇指摔跤大混战」世上所有游戏中，这是我所知唯一可让玩家得以在60秒内体验10种正面情绪的游戏这是真的，如果今天你们和我玩一下只要一分钟就会感到喜悦，放松，爱与惊喜自豪，好奇，兴奋，崇敬和惊奇满足，以及创造力全在一分钟内可以体验到
en:Today I am going to teach youhow to play my favorite game:massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling.It&#39;s the only game in the world that I know ofthat allows you, the player,the opportunity to experience10 positive emotions in 60 seconds or less.This is true, so if you play this game with me todayfor just one single minute,you will get to feel joy, relief, love, surprise,pride, curiosity, excitement, awe and wonder,contentment, and creativity,all in the span of one minute.
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:听来很棒是吧？现在你会想玩了!我需要几位志愿者赶快上台来和我一起教大家怎么玩我们要亲身示范趁他们上来的空档，我想该跟大家说一下这游戏是10年前在澳大利亚由Monochrom这个同人艺术团体发明的谢谢你们，Monochrom好的，大多数人都熟悉传统的拇指摔跤对战Sunni，我们来帮大家复习一下1，2，3，4，我说开始，拇指互摔Sunni高手，当然会赢!
en:So this sounds pretty good, right?Now you&#39;re willing to play.In order to teach you this game,I&#39;m going to need some volunteersto come up onstage really quickly,and we&#39;re going to do a little hands-on demo.While they&#39;re coming up, I should let you know,this game was invented 10 years agoby an artists&#39; collective in Austria named Monochrom.So thank you, Monochrom.Okay, so most people are familiarwith traditional, two-person thumb-wrestling.Sunni, let&#39;s just remind them.One, two, three, four, I declare a thumb war, and we wrestle,and of course Sunni beats mebecause she&#39;s the best.
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:有关拇指摔跤大混战首要的常识是我们已进入「游戏世代」现在世界上有数十亿的玩家所以我们要来点更具挑战性的首先要用上更多拇指Eric請你加入吧!这样我们就有三根拇指了Peter也来吧!我们甚至可以有四个拇指第一个按住别人拇指的就赢了!不过有一点非常重要! 不可以像这样等别人分出胜负才猛然按下这样不算赢啊，刚才谁赢了？是Eric像Eric刚才这样抢先压制我的拇指就赢了!好，这是第一条规则而且还了解到一个节点通常有3到4根拇指如果想玩大一点的，用不着客气!我们大可放手一搏!就像屏幕上看到的别忘了另外一条规则是玩家世代，热爱挑战!我刚好注意到你们还有没有用到的拇指所以我想多少把它们用上吧!如果只有4个玩家就可这样做我们会试着同时以两手拇指摔跤好极了!
en:Now the first thing aboutmassively multiplayer thumb-wrestling,we&#39;re the gamer generation.There are a billion gamers on the planet now,so we need more of a challenge.So the first thing we need is more thumbs.So Eric, come on over.So we could get three thumbs together,and Peter could join us.We could even have four thumbs together,and the way you winis you&#39;re the first personto pin someone else&#39;s thumb.This is really important. You can&#39;t, like,wait while they fight it out andthen swoop in at the last minute.That is not how you win.Ah, who did that? Eric you did that.So Eric would have won. He wasthe first person to pin my thumb.Okay, so that&#39;s the first rule,and we can see that three or fouris kind of the typical number of thumbs in a node,but if you feel ambitious,you don&#39;t have to hold back.We can really go for it.So you can see up here.Now the only other rule you need to remember is,gamer generation, we like a challenge.I happen to notice you all havesome thumbs you&#39;re not using.So I think we should kind of get some more involved.And if we had just four people,we would do it just like this,and we would try and wrestleboth thumbs at the same time.Perfect.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:如果在场的人更多与其只靠封闭的节点我们或可主动拉其他人进来这就是我们马上要做的事这里大约有1,500根拇指我们试试看能不能用一个节点串连而且上下两层的观众都要加入舞台左方的楼上观众会需要一手向上一手向下
en:Now, if we had more people in the room,instead of just wrestling in a closed node,we might reach out and tryand grab some other people.And in fact, that&#39;s what we&#39;re going to do right now.We&#39;re going to try and get all, something like,I don&#39;t know, 1,500 thumbs in this roomconnected in a single node.And we have to connect both levels,so if you&#39;re up there, you&#39;re going to bereaching down and reaching up.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:现在 — — （笑声） — —在开始之前不错!各位一副跃跃欲试的模样!可以在开始前帮我恢复幻灯片播放吗？如果你们这游戏玩得不错我想给你们介绍一些更难的这算初级，对吧？但是还有更难的配置这被称为死星形态在座中有《星际大战》的影迷吗？这叫莫比乌斯带(Möbius strip)科学迷应该都知道这种排列最难;还有这种实在太特殊了
en:Now — (Laughter) —before we get started —This is great. You&#39;re excited to play. —before we get started, can I havethe slides back up here really quick,because if you get good at this game,I want you to know there are some advanced levels.So this is the kind of simple level, right?But there are advanced configurations.This is called the Death Star Configuration.Any Star Wars fans?And this one&#39;s called the Möbius Strip.Any science geeks, you get that one.This is the hardest level. This is the extreme.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:所以我们现在玩普通的就好我会给你们30 秒设法让每个拇指连上结点楼上楼下也要相连你们几个去那边30秒的时闲,连起来!制造结点!
en:So we&#39;ll stick with the normal one for now,and I&#39;m going to give you 30 seconds,every thumb into the node,connect the upper and the lower levels,you guys go on down there.Thirty seconds. Into the network. Make the node.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:站起来吧！站着比较容易!每个人都站起来 ！站起来，我的朋友们!好!游戏现在还没开始!如果您还有拇指没用上，挥动一下给我们看!确认每个姆指都挂上了好……最后一次确认如果有闲置的拇指，挥一下给我们看以确保……握住那只姆指！就在你后面，你看行得通吧!还有拇指没连到的吗？好，我数到三，你们就开始尽量不要散掉! 稳住，稳住，稳住!好了吗？一、 二、 三，开始 ！
en:Stand up! It&#39;s easier if you stand up.Everybody, up up up up up!Stand up, my friends.All right.Don&#39;t start wrestling yet.If you have a free thumb, wave it around,make sure it gets connected.Okay. We need to do a last-minute thumb check.If you have a free thumb,wave it around to make sure.Grab that thumb!Reach behind you. There you go.Any other thumbs?Okay, on the count of three, you&#39;re going to go.Try to keep track. Grab, grab, grab it.Okay? One, two, three, go!
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:你赢了吗? 赢了吗？你逮到他了？很好！（掌声）干的好。谢谢你们大家!
en:Did you win? You got it? You got it? Excellent!(Applause)Well done. Thank you. Thank you very much.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:好你们有些人头一次在拇指摔跤大混战赢了所以此刻还沉浸在狂喜中让我们很快地回味一下其中的正面情绪好奇当我说：「拇指摔跤大混战」你们会纳闷:「她在说什么呀?」所以我激起了你们的一点好奇心而让所有拇指接上节点倚赖的是创造力跟周围的人连；和上面的人连所以大家发挥了创造力，很棒!那惊讶呢? 亲身体验两手大拇指同时与人较劲的确令人惊奇刚才你们都听见会场内的声音越来越大大家都很兴奋，而当你们一较高下的时候也许你逐渐占上风，或是对手很投入大家因此都很兴奋也有放松的时候，像大家得站起来因为都坐一阵子了，所以放松身体有松弛的效果我们刚才很快乐，你们大笑，微笑。看看你们，这里充满喜悦!刚才我们也觉得满足游戏中我没看到发短信或检视电邮的人所以你们玩得很尽兴!再来是最重要的三种情绪，尊崇和惊奇，刚才那1分钟我们确实彼此接触在TED你何时有过这样的机会能与场上的每个人有身体接触？这的确令人感到佩服和惊奇!说到身体上的接触你们知道我喜欢催产素你们释放催产素，感到彼此相投众所皆知，立即分泌催产素的最佳途径就是与人牵手至少6秒钟你们刚才牵手的时间早就不只6秒所以以生化观点来说全都彼此相爱了。真棒。
en:All right.While you are basking in the glowof having won your firstmassively multiplayer thumb-wrestling game,let&#39;s do a quick recap on the positive emotions.So curiosity.I said &quot;massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling.&quot;You were like, &quot;What the hell is she talking about?&quot;So I provoked a little curiosity.Creativity: it took creativity to solve the problemof getting all the thumbs into the node.I&#39;m reaching around and I&#39;m reaching up.So you used creativity. That was great.How about surprise? The actual feelingof trying to wrestle two thumbs at onceis pretty surprising.You heard that sound go up in the room.We had excitement. As you started to wrestle,maybe you&#39;re starting to winor this person&#39;s, like, really into it,so you kind of get the excitement going.We have relief. You got to stand up.You&#39;ve been sitting for awhile, so the physical relief,getting to shake it out.We had joy. You were laughing, smiling.Look at your faces. This room is full of joy.We had some contentment.I didn&#39;t see anybody sending text messagesor checking their email while we were playing,so you were totally content to be playing.The most important three emotions,awe and wonder, we had everybodyconnected physically for a minute.When was the last time you were at TEDand you got to connect physicallywith every single person in the room?And it&#39;s truly awesome and wondrous.And speaking of physical connection,you guys know I love the hormone oxytocin,you release oxytocin, you feel bondedto everyone in the room.You guys know that the best wayto release oxytocin quicklyis to hold someone else&#39;s handfor at least six seconds.You guys were all holding handsfor way more than six seconds,so we are all now biochemically primedto love each other. That is great.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:最后来说自豪这件事有多少人像我一样—-尽管承认无妨两手都输了!也不过就是一时赢不了罢了!没关系，因为你今天学到了新技能学会一种以前从不知道的游戏既然你们已经会玩，就可以教人恭喜!有多少人只赢了一边？好，我有很棒的消息要告诉你们根据姆指摔跤大混战的官方规则这表示你是拇指摔跤大师因为没多少人会玩我们得简化游戏程序不要像西洋棋那么慢所以恭喜你们，各位大师!一个拇指赢一次，就能成为大师有谁两手拇指都赢的?有耶。好棒! 好。等会儿去更新Twitter 或 Facebook 动态吧!根据规则，你们这些人恭喜各位成为传奇宗师!如果各位想再试一次，我有个忠告成为传奇宗师的最佳途径便是从两手各自连接的节点中选个看起来最简单的那个其他人心不在焉的那个，看起来有点逊的!先集中注意在那手另一手乱动就好了!只要一手赢了，乱动的那手就紧急煞车其他人措手不及，你再趁虚而入!这就是在姆指摔跤大混战中，晋升传奇宗师的诀窍谢谢大家给我机会教各位玩我最爱的游戏!呀乎 ！（掌声）谢谢。（掌声）
en:And the last emotion of pride.How many people are like me. Just admit it.You lost both your thumbs.It just didn&#39;t work out for you.That&#39;s okay, because you learned a new skill today.You learned, from scratch,a game you never knew before.Now you know how to play it.You can teach other people.So congratulations.How many of you won just won thumb?All right. I have very good news for you.According to the official rulesof massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling,this makes you a grandmaster of the game.Because there aren&#39;t that manypeople who know how to play,we have to kind of accelerate the programmore than a game like chess.So congratulations, grandmasters.Win one thumb once, you willbecome a grandmaster.Did anybody win both their thumbs?Yes. Awesome. Okay.Get ready to update your Twitter or Facebook status.You guys, according to the rules,are legendary grandmasters, so congratulations.I will just leave you with this tip,if you want to play again.The best way to become a legendary grandmaster,you&#39;ve got your two nodes going on.Pick off the one that looks easiest.They&#39;re not paying attention. They look kind of weak.Focus on that one and do something crazywith this arm.As soon as you win, suddenly stop.Everybody is thrown off. You go in for the kill.That&#39;s how you become a legendary grandmasterof massively multiplayer thumb-wrestling.Thank you for letting meteach you my favorite game.Wooo! (Applause)Thank you. (Applause)
