时间： 0:11
zh-cn:如果我可以展示任何事物，任何我们看不到的事物，至少对于现代文化来说，那只会展示是我们抛之脑后的事物，但我们曾经是知道他们的，就像我们知道自己的名字一样。而且我们生活在全能的宇宙中，作为这奇妙行星中的一员，我们的身边充满了天才。
en:If I could reveal anythingthat is hidden from us,at least in modern cultures,it would be to reveal something that we&#39;ve forgotten,that we used to knowas well as we knew our own names.And that is that we live in a competent universe,that we are part of a brilliant planet,and that we are surrounded by genius.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:仿生学是一门新学科，这门学科尝试向自然界中的天才学习，听取它们的建议，设计上的建议。这是我住的地方。也是我教书的地方。我被天才包围，不由自主地一直记着这些生物和生态系统它们知道如何优雅地生活在这个星球上。这是我希望你能记住的一点，并且不要再忘记，请牢记，这是每年都会发生的事，大自然信守承诺的事，正当我们忙于复苏经济，我们却忽视了这正在进行的……春天
en:Biomimicry is a new disciplinethat tries to learn from those geniuses,and take advice from them, design advice.That&#39;s where I live,and it&#39;s my university as well.I&#39;m surrounded by genius. I cannot help butremember the organisms and the ecosystemsthat know how to live here gracefully on this planet.This is what I would tell you to rememberif you ever forget this again.Remember this.This is what happens every year.This is what keeps its promise.While we&#39;re doing bailouts, this is what happened.Spring.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:设想要设计一个春天设想一下那和谐的编排大家觉得TED已经够难组织的了（众笑），是吧？想象一下，要是你很久没这么做过，现在试一下试想一下那高超的时机把握，和谐乐章的演奏，完全不依赖于上下对应的法律法规，完全不依赖于政策，或拯救气候变暖协议。春天每年都这样降临当然少不了争奇斗艳空气中也充满了爱少不了富丽堂皇的开场而这些有机体，我敢保证，全都井然有序
en:Imagine designing spring.Imagine that orchestration.You think TED is hard to organize. (Laughter) Right?Imagine, and if you haven&#39;t done this in a while, do.Imagine the timing, the coordination,all without top-down laws,or policies, or climate change protocols.This happens every year.There is lots of showing off.There is lots of love in the air.There&#39;s lots of grand openings.And the organisms, I promise you,have all of their priorities in order.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:我曾经有个邻居，他让我常接触这些因为他的生活，通常是躺着的，看着那些草儿一次，他来找我那时他大概七八岁，他来找我告诉我，那儿有个蜂巢就在我的后院里穿过门就是多数人趁蜂巢还小的时后，就将其打下但我却着迷与此因为蜂巢在我眼里看起来极像精致的意式衬页他过来找我，敲了敲门他每天都会带些东西给我看像只啄木鸟，他当当地敲门，直到我开门为止然后他问我，我是怎么为黄蜂做巢的因为他从来没见过这么大的一个蜂巢我告诉他“科迪，要知道其实那是黄蜂自己做的。”然后我们一起看我能理解为何他会那样想要知道，那蜂巢建的真的很美很有建筑感，很精准
en:I have this neighbor that keeps me in touch with this,because he&#39;s living, usually on his back,looking up at those grasses.And one time he came up to me —he was about seven or eight years old — he came up to me.And there was a wasp&#39;s nestthat I had let grow in my yard,right outside my door.And most people knock them down when they&#39;re small.But it was fascinating to me,because I was looking at this sort of fine Italian end papers.And he came up to me and he knocked.He would come every day with something to show me.And like, knock like a woodpecker on my door until I opened it up.And he asked mehow I had made the house for those wasps,because he had never seen one this big.And I told him, &quot;You know, Cody,the wasps actually made that.&quot;And we looked at it together.And I could see why he thought,you know — it was so beautifully done.It was so architectural. It was so precise.
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:但我禁不住想，为何这么小的孩子，就已经接受并相信这么个神话，这么完美的作品一定是出自人类之手为何他会不知道人类只是忘却了我们并非第一个会建筑的物种我们并非第一个会处理纤维的物种我们并非第一个造纸的物种我们并非第一个优化填充空间的物种也不是制作防水材料或加热冷却材质的第一物种也不是为后代建造房屋的第一物种
en:But it occurred to me, how in his small lifehad he already believed the myththat if something was that well done,that we must have done it.How did he not know —it&#39;s what we&#39;ve all forgotten —that we&#39;re not the first ones to build.We&#39;re not the first ones to process cellulose.We&#39;re not the first ones to make paper. We&#39;re not the first onesto try to optimize packing space,or to waterproof, or to try to heat and cool a structure.We&#39;re not the first ones to build houses for our young.
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:现在仿生技术领域正使人们的记忆复苏提醒人们，生物体，其他生物体自然界中的其他生物体正在做的与我们极为相似但事实上，他们的方法可以使它们优雅地生活在这个星球上达数十亿年之久这些仿生学家们，是大自然的学徒他们注重功能我想向大家展示一下他们正在学习的东西他们这样问自己“要是我发明前都想想大自然对此的解决方案，会怎样呢？”
en:What&#39;s happening now, in this field called biomimicry,is that people are beginning to rememberthat organisms, other organisms,the rest of the natural world,are doing things very similar to what we need to do.But in fact they are doing them in a waythat have allowed them to live gracefully on this planetfor billions of years.So these people, biomimics,are nature&#39;s apprentices.And they&#39;re focusing on function.What I&#39;d like to do is show you a few of the thingsthat they&#39;re learning.They have asked themselves,&quot;What if, every time I started to invent something,I asked, &#39;How would nature solve this?&#39;&quot;
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:这是他们正在学习的这张令人拍案叫绝的照片是捷克摄影师杰克.海德里的作品这个故事是关于工程师J.R.韦斯特的他是研制子弹列车（bullet train）的一员之所以叫子弹列车是因为车头是圆的但每次驶进山洞时就会产生一股压力波驶出山洞时就会发出音爆巨响于是工程师的头儿说：“找个法子降降音量。”
en:And here is what they&#39;re learning.This is an amazing picture from a Czech photographer named Jack Hedley.This is a story about an engineer at J.R. West.They&#39;re the people who make the bullet train.It was called the bullet trainbecause it was rounded in front,but every time it went into a tunnelit would build up a pressure wave,and then it would create like a sonic boom when it exited.So the engineer&#39;s boss said,&quot;Find a way to quiet this train.&quot;
时间： 5:17
zh-cn:韦斯特正巧也是个鸟类爱好者他去了奥杜邦学会相关会议研究学习，正巧，一段关于翠鸟的影片让他灵光一闪，“他们从一种密度的介质，空气进入另一种密度的介质，水却溅不起一丝水花。”看看这张照片因为没有一丝水花，水里的鱼鸟儿看得一清二楚接着他想到“要不我们也这么办？”通过这种方法，列车的噪声大大降低同时，速度提升了10%并且节省了15%的电力
en:He happened to be a birder.He went to the equivalent of an Audubon Society meeting.And he studied — there was a film about king fishers.And he thought to himself, &quot;They go from one density of medium,the air, into another density of medium, water,without a splash. Look at this picture.Without a splash, so they can see the fish.And he thought, &quot;What if we do this?&quot;Quieted the train.Made it go 10 percent faster on 15 percent less electricity.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:大自然是如何抗菌的呢？我们并非第一个保护自己免受细菌侵害的物种原来答案在加拉帕戈斯群岛的鲨鱼(Galapagos Shark)身上它表面没有细菌、污垢，身上也没有附着甲壳动物这并不是因为它游得快事实上它很惬意，一向游得很慢那它是如何保持身体不滋生细菌的呢？它不使用化学制剂原来是他身上的锯齿状物就是和Speedo泳衣材质一样的锯齿状物有了它运动员在奥运会上所向披靡
en:How does nature repel bacteria?We&#39;re not the first ones to have to protect ourselvesfrom some bacteria.Turns out that — this is a Galapagos Shark.It has no bacteria on its surface, no fouling on its surface, no barnacles.And it&#39;s not because it goes fast.It actually basks. It&#39;s a slow-moving shark.So how does it keep its body free of bacteria build-up?It doesn&#39;t do it with a chemical.It does it, it turns out, with the same denticlesthat you had on Speedo bathing suits,that broke all those records in the Olympics,
时间： 6:22
zh-cn:但这齿状物有一种独特的图案而其结构富含锯齿状物让细菌无处无处着生有家叫Sharklet Technologies的公司正把这种结构铺设在医院的墙面上防止细菌附着此法远优于抗菌或其他任何强劲的洗液许多生物体都对这些洗液产生抗药性在美国，每年在医院里感染致死的人数远高于艾滋病、癌症及交通事故死亡率的总和达到10万人左右
en:but it&#39;s a particular kind of pattern.And that pattern, the architecture of that patternon its skin denticleskeep bacteria from being able to land and adhere.There is a company called Sharklet Technologiesthat&#39;s now putting this on the surfaces in hospitalsto keep bacteria from landing,which is better than dousing it with anti-bacterials or harsh cleansersthat many, many organisms are now becoming drug resistant.Hospital-acquired infections are now killingmore people every year in the United Statesthan die from AIDS or cancer or car accidents combined —about 100,000.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:这是种住在纳米比亚沙漠的小生物它们没有新鲜水源可以饮用但它们从雾气中摄取水分在覆盖它身体的翅膀后侧有些突起这些突起像磁铁一样吸水它们有亲水的前端和蜡质的旁侧所以雾气回凝结在尖端然后从旁侧流下直至其口中有位牛津大学的科学家安德鲁帕克对此做过研究现在有些动力和建筑公司，比如Grimshaw开始着眼于把这项技术应用在建筑涂料上这样雾气中的水分就可以被收集起来效果比现有的捉雾网(fog-catching nets)高10倍
en:This is a little critter that&#39;s in the Namibian desert.It has no fresh water that it&#39;s able to drink,but it drinks water out of fog.It&#39;s got bumps on the back of its wing covers.And those bumps act like a magnet for water.They have water-loving tips, and waxy sides.And the fog comes in and it builds up on the tips.And it goes down the sides and goes into the critter&#39;s mouth.There is actually a scientist here at Oxfordwho studied this, Andrew Parker.And now kinetic and architectural firms like Grimshaware starting to look at this as a wayof coating buildingsso that they gather water from the fog.10 times better than our fog-catching nets.
时间： 7:49
zh-cn:二氧化碳作为建筑材料生物体可不把二氧化碳当有害气体对于那些生产贝壳珊瑚的植物及有机体这可是建筑材料现在有间水泥制造公司叫Clara，成立于美国他们借用了珊瑚的秘方把二氧化碳当作水泥、混凝土的成分通常情况下，每生产一吨水泥排放一吨的二氧化碳现在方程式被逆转并且可以降低半吨二氧化碳这一切可多亏了珊瑚的秘方
en:CO2 as a building block.Organisms don&#39;t think of CO2 as a poison.Plants and organisms that make shells,coral, think of it as a building block.There is now a cement manufacturing companystarting in the United States called Calera.They&#39;ve borrowed the recipe from the coral reef,and they&#39;re using CO2 as a building blockin cement, in concrete.Instead of — cement usuallyemits a ton of CO2 for every ton of cement.Now it&#39;s reversing that equation,and actually sequestering half a ton of CO2thanks to the recipe from the coral.
时间： 8:25
zh-cn:以上这些都没利用生物体它们其实只用了生命蓝图或秘方大自然如何收集太阳能？这是一种新的太阳能电池它是基于叶子的运作方式它可以自我组装也可以着根于任何生化基质其价格低廉而且每五年可再充电其实是我参与的一间叫OneSun的公司和保罗.浩肯合作
en:None of these are using the organisms.They&#39;re really only using the blueprints or the recipesfrom the organisms.How does nature gather the sun&#39;s energy?This is a new kind of solar cellthat&#39;s based on how a leaf works.It&#39;s self-assembling.It can be put down on any substrate whatsoever.It&#39;s extremely inexpensiveand rechargeable every five years.It&#39;s actually a company a company that I&#39;m involved in called OneSun,with Paul Hawken.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:大自然有好多好多净水并去除盐分的方法我们人类却用水去挤压细胞膜还纳闷为何细胞膜会堵塞为何这一过程如此费电大自然的手法则更加优雅这种方法渗透到每一个细胞现在你体内的每一个血红细胞都有沙漏型小孔叫水孔蛋白(aquaporins)它们让水分子通过、流出这过程多少有点像正向渗透它们输出水分子把溶解质留在另一边一间名叫Aquaporin的公司正在开始制造模仿这项技术的去盐薄膜
en:There are many many ways that nature filters waterthat takes salt out of water.We take water and push it against a membrane.And then we wonder why the membrane clogsand why it takes so much electricity.Nature does something much more elegant.And it&#39;s in every cell.Every red blood cell of your body right nowhas these hourglass-shaped porescalled aquaporins.They actually export water molecules through.It&#39;s kind of a forward osmosis.They export water molecules through,and leave solutes on the other side.A company called Aquaporin is starting to make desalinationmembranes mimicking this technology.
时间： 9:35
zh-cn:树木和骨骼通常沿着压力线自我重组这种演算法已被运用在软件上协助促使桥梁轻量化使建筑钢梁轻量化事实上通用汽车的欧宝(Opel)已开始运用这项技术制造你所见过的那种汽车骨架在所谓的仿生车当中轻量化的骨架使用最少的材料正如一个有机体为生存所必须做到的一样获取最大限量的支撑力
en:Trees and bones are constantly reforming themselvesalong lines of stress.This algorithm has been put into a software programthat&#39;s now being used to make bridges lightweight,to make building beams lightweight.Actually G.M. Opel used itto create that skeleton you see,in what&#39;s called their bionic car.It lightweighted that skeleton using a minimum amount of material,as an organism must,for the maximum amount of strength.
时间：10:10
zh-cn:这只甲虫，和这袋薯片不大一样这甲虫运用了一种材料，壳质(chitin)并且找出了好多方法让壳质发挥多种功能它防水坚固有弹性又透气，并且结构安排产生颜色再来看看那袋薯片，同样的效果需要7层才能实现我们的主要发明之一就是我们必须具备能力去与这些生物体更加亲近要实现这一目的，我们要减少材料用量，减少我们使用材料量然后加上设计大自然使用五种聚合物你亲眼所见的都是其杰作而我们人类使用350种聚合物才成就了今天的一切
en:This beetle, unlike this chip bag here,this beetle uses one material, chitin.And it finds many many waysto put many functions into it.It&#39;s waterproof.It&#39;s strong and resilient.It&#39;s breathable. It creates color through structure.Whereas that chip bag has about seven layers to do all of those things.One of our major inventionsthat we need to be able to doto come even close to what these organisms can dois to find a wayto minimize the amount of material, the kind of material we use,and to add design to it.We use five polymers in the natural worldto do everything that you see.In our world we use about 350 polymersto make all this.
时间：11:03
zh-cn:大自然是纳米专家关于纳米科技、纳米粒子，各种忧虑屡见不鲜松散的纳米粒子。而我最感兴趣的是有多少人问过：“我们应如何借鉴大自然使纳米技术安全化？”大自然已行之久远例如，他总是把纳米粒子固定在某种材质中事实上，除硫细菌(sulfur-reducing bacteria)在其合成过程中会释放一种副产品一种纳米粒子进入水中在此之后，它会释放一种蛋白质可以聚集、聚合那些纳米粒子于是它们得以解决
en:Nature is nano.Nanotechnology, nanoparticles, you hear a lot of worry about this.Loose nanoparticles. What is really interesting to meis that not many people have been asking,&quot;How can we consult nature about how to make nanotechnology safe?&quot;Nature has been doing that for a long time.Embedding nanoparticles in a material for instance, always.In fact, sulfur-reducing bacteria,as part of their synthesis,they will emit, as a byproduct,nanoparticles into the water.But then right after that, they emit a proteinthat actually gathers and aggregates those nanoparticlesso that they fall out of solution.
时间：11:47
zh-cn:能量使用。生物体慎用能量因为它们不得不为此运转或易物来获得每一分如今最主要的领域之一世界能源网中你一定听说过智能电网(smart grid)其最重要的顾问之一就是群居昆虫峰群技术。有一家名为Regen的公司他们通过观察蚂蚁和蜜蜂觅食集采花粉用对整个蜂巢的最有效方式它们有种家用设备通过哪种演算法互相沟通然后决定如何把尖峰用电量降到最低
en:Energy use. Organisms sip energy,because they have to work or barter for every single bit that they get.And one of the largest fields right now,in the world of energy grids,you hear about the smart grid.One of the largest consultants are the social insects.Swarm technology. There is a company called Regen.They are looking at how ants and beesfind their food and their flowersin the most effective wayas a whole hive.And they&#39;re having appliances in your hometalk to one another through that algorithm,and determine how to minimize peak power use.
时间：12:33
zh-cn:有一群康奈尔大学的科学家正在制造他们所谓的人造树因为他们说“树底部没有水泵。”是毛细作用和蒸散作用产生的拉力一滴一滴把水吸上去拉上去，从叶面释放然后从根部拉取然后它们可以创造—想象它们是一种壁纸这些科学家正想把它运用在建筑内部把水抽高而不需水泵
en:There&#39;s a group of scientists in Cornellthat are making what they call a synthetic tree,because they are saying, &quot;There is no pump at the bottom of a tree.&quot;It&#39;s capillary action and transpiration pullswater up, a drop at a time,pulling it, releasing it from a leaf and pulling it up through the roots.And they&#39;re creating — you can think of it as a kind of wallpaper.They&#39;re thinking about putting it on the insides of buildingsto move water up without pumps.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:亚马逊电鳗(Amazon Electric Eel)，濒临绝种这些物种当中的一些能使用身体中的一些化学物质产生600伏的电力更让我感兴趣的是600伏的高压却没把自己煎熟要知道我们用聚氯乙烯(PVC)包住电线利用聚氯乙烯作为绝缘体这些生物，它们如何让自己跟自己产生的电力绝缘呢？有些问题我们尚无解答
en:Amazon electric eel — incredibly endangered,some of these species —create 600 volts of electricitywith the chemicals that are in your body.Even more interesting to me is that600 volts doesn&#39;t fry it.You know we use PVC, and we sheath wireswith PVC for insulation.These organisms, how are they insulatingagainst their own electric charge?These are some questions that we&#39;ve yet to ask.
时间：13:35
zh-cn:有一家涡轮制造商取法于鲸鱼驼背鲸(Humpback whale)有扇形边的鳍那些扇形边用某种方式与水流相互作用减少了32%的阻力于是极低的风速即可转动风扇
en:Here&#39;s a wind turbine manufacturer that went to a whale.Humpback whale has scalloped edges on its flippers.And those scalloped edgesplay with flow in such a waythat is reduces drag by 32 percent.These wind turbines can rotate in incredibly slow windspeeds, as a result.
时间：13:57
zh-cn:麻省理工大学刚制造出一种新的无线电晶片其用电量远小于目前晶片而且它取法与你耳中的耳蜗可以接收网络、无线电、电视信号电台信号，这些功能都集于一身最后，建立在生态系统规模上
en:MIT just has a new radio chipthat uses far less power than our chips.And it&#39;s based on the cochlear of your ear,able to pick up internet, wireless, television signalsand radio signals, in the same chip.Finally, on an ecosystem scale.
时间：14:19
zh-cn:在Biomimicry Guild，也就是我的顾问的公司我们与HOK建筑公司合作我们真在考虑建造整座城市我们在他们的筹划部门工作我们诉求的是从生态系统服务的角度来看我们的城市至少不应该是干他们取代的原始系统一样好吗？于是我们正在设立生态性能标准能让城市维持在这个标准
en:At Biomimicry Guild, which is my consulting company,we work with HOK Architects.We&#39;re looking at building whole citiesin their planning department.And what we&#39;re saying is that,shouldn&#39;t our cities do at least as well,in terms of ecosystem services,as the native systems that they replace?So we&#39;re creating something called Ecological Performance Standardsthat hold cities to this higher bar.
时间：14:48
zh-cn:问题是，仿生科技是创新一条极其有力的途径我想问的是：“哪些问题值得去解决？”要你之前没看过，这个会挺令人吃惊的亚当.尼曼博士这张图像描绘的是地球上所有的水相对于地球体积所有的冰、淡水、咸水和我们呼吸的大气，相对于地球的体积而在那些球里头的是生命，超过3.8亿年之久帮我们创造了苍翠、适宜居住的环境
en:The question is — biomimicry is an incredibly powerfulway to innovate.The question I would ask is, &quot;What&#39;s worth solving?&quot;If you haven&#39;t seen this, it&#39;s pretty amazing.Dr. Adam Neiman.This is a depiction ofall of the water on Earthin relation to the volume of the Earth —all the ice, all the fresh water, all the sea water —and all the atmosphere that we can breathe, in relation to the volume of the Earth.And inside those ballslife, over 3.8 billion years,has made a lush, livable place for us.
时间：15:26
zh-cn:在所有的生物当中我们排在长长的队伍后面来到地球上面并问我们自己“我们如何优雅的、长久的生存？”我们如何才能做到其他生物早已学会的事情？也就是创造有利于生存的环境现在为了实现这个目的我们这一世纪设计的挑战，我想我们需要时时提醒自己想想那些天才并且再以某种方式与它们会面
en:And we are in a long, long lineof organismsto come to this planet and ask ourselves,&quot;How can we live here gracefully over the long haul?&quot;How can we do what life has learned to do?Which is to create conditions conducive to life.Now in order to do this, the design challengeof our century, I think,we need a way to remind ourselves of those geniuses,and to somehow meet them again.
时间：16:02
zh-cn:其中一个庞大的计划是我有幸参与的是关于一个新网站，我希望大家去浏览它它叫AskNature.org我们尝试沿用TED的风格依照设计上和工程上的功能组织所有生物资讯
en:One of the big ideas, one of the big projectsI&#39;ve been honored to work onis a new website. And I would encourage you all to please go to it.It&#39;s called AskNature.org.And what we&#39;re trying to do, in a TEDesque way,is to organize all biological informationby design and engineering function.
时间：16:21
zh-cn:我与生物百科合作达成爱德.威尔逊的TED愿望他正在收集各种生物资讯于一个网站而为生物百科做贡献的科学家都在问一个问题：“我们从这种生物身上可以学到什么？”然后那些资讯会放在上面提过的网站上但愿，所有发明家，甚至世上的所有人可以在他们灵光一之际，可以输入：大自然如何去除水中盐分然后结果就会显示红树林和海龟还有你的肾脏
en:And we&#39;re working with EOL, Encyclopedia of Life,Ed Wilson&#39;s TED wish.And he&#39;s gathering all biological informationon one website.And the scientists who are contributing to EOL are answering a question,&quot;What can we learn from this organism?&quot;And that information will go into AskNature.org.And hopefully, any inventor, anywhere in the world,will be able, in the moment of creation,to type in, &quot;How does nature remove salt from water?&quot;And up will come mangroves, and sea turtlesand your own kidneys.
时间：16:57
zh-cn:然后我们会开始有能力做到做到我的邻居科迪做到的去接触这些邻人赞叹不已的模型这些自然界中的长者在地球上的日子远远多于我们但愿，在它们的帮助下我们能学会如何在地球上生存地球是我们的家园，但不是我们人类单独拥有的谢谢（鼓掌）
en:And we&#39;ll begin tobe able todo as Cody does,and actually be in touchwith these incredible models,these elders that have been herefar, far longer than we have.And hopefully, with their help,we&#39;ll learn how to live on this Earth,and on this home that is ours, but not ours alone.Thank you very much.(Applause)
