时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我希望大家能花点时间考虑一个非常简单的事实那就是，到目前为止，我们对宇宙的大部分了解都来自于光。我们站在地球上仰望夜空用肉眼就能看到天上的繁星。强烈的阳光是如此地刺眼，我们能看到从月球反射回来的光，自从伽利略将他那简陋的天文望远镜瞄准宇宙中的天体，时至今日，我们所了解的宇宙，通过光呈现在我们眼前。在现代天文望远镜的帮助下，我们已经能够搜集炫目无声的宇宙影像 –这一系列影像可以一直追溯到大爆炸。
en:I want to ask you all to consider for a secondthe very simple factthat, by far,most of what we know about the universecomes to us from light.We can stand on the Earth and look up at the night skyand see stars with our bare eyes.The Sun burns our peripheral vision.We see light reflected off the Moon.And in the time since Galileo pointed that rudimentary telescopeat the celestial bodies,the known universe has come to us through light,across vast eras in cosmic history.And with all of our modern telescopes,we&#39;ve been able to collectthis stunning silent movie of the universe —these series of snapshotsthat go all the way back to the Big Bang.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:不过，宇宙不是一部默剧，因为宇宙并非真的寂静无声。我想告诉大家宇宙有着自己的配乐，而宇宙自身正在不停地播放着。因为太空可以想鼓一样振动。所以当一些重大事情发生时它能够向宇宙发出一系列声音。如今，我们希望能够给这部关于宇宙的宏伟的视觉作品配上声音。虽然我们从未听到过来自外太空的声音，但我们应该能够在接下来的几年内，把音量调大，听听那儿究竟发生了什么。
en:And yet, the universe is not a silent moviebecause the universe isn&#39;t silent.I&#39;d like to convince youthat the universe has a soundtrackand that soundtrack is played on space itself,because space can wobble like a drum.It can ring out a kind of recordingthroughout the universeof some of the most dramatic events as they unfold.Now we&#39;d like to be able to addto a kind of glorious visual compositionthat we have of the universe —a sonic composition.And while we&#39;ve never heard the sounds from space,we really should, in the next few years,start to turn up the volume on what&#39;s going on out there.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:针对捕获宇宙声音这个远大的目标，我们将我们的重点放在黑洞以及它所表现出的前景，因为黑洞能够撞击时空就像鼓槌撞击鼓面一样发出非常特别的声音，我也非常高兴给你们播放一些我们预测的声音。黑洞在漆黑的宇宙中，是无法被看见的。它们无法通过光直接被我们看到，至少我们不能直接看到。我们可以间接地看到，因为黑洞能够扭曲它们周围的事物。它们能摧毁附近的恒星。搅动周围的碎片。但它们不会通过光被我们发现。将来的某一天我们有可能可以看到一个影子一个黑洞可以在一个非常明亮的背景上留下影子，但目前还没被观测到。尽管黑洞并不能被看到但它们有可能被听到，这是因为它们像鼓一样撞击时空。
en:So in this ambitionto capture songs from the universe,we turn our focusto black holes and the promise they have,because black holes can bang on space-timelike mallets on a drumand have a very characteristic song,which I&#39;d like to play for you — some of our predictionsfor what that song will be like.Now black holes are dark against a dark sky.We can&#39;t see them directly.They&#39;re not brought to us with light, at least not directly.We can see them indirectly,because black holes wreak havoc on their environment.They destroy stars around them.They churn up debris in their surroundings.But they won&#39;t come to us directly through light.We might one day see a shadowa black hole can cast on a very bright background,but we haven&#39;t yet.And yet black holes may be heardeven if they&#39;re not seen,and that&#39;s because they bang on space-time like a drum.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:宇宙能发出鼓一样声音的这个想法来自于阿尔伯特·爱因斯坦，其实我们的很多想法都来自于他。爱因斯坦意识到如果宇宙是空的，如果宇宙是空的，它将看起来像这幅照片一样，除了那些画在上面的辅助线。但如果我们在宇宙中自由落体，即便没有这些辅助线，我们的轨迹也会画出这些线，因为我们将会发现我们沿着直线运动，沿着不发生弯折的直线穿过宇宙。爱因斯坦还意识到－这可是真正最关键的部分（matter也有“物质”的意思）–如果你在宇宙中放入能量和物质，宇宙就会弯曲。自由落体的物体在经过向太阳这样的天体时将会被偏转沿着空间中被弯折的路径运动。这就是爱因斯坦伟大的广义相对论。甚至光的路径也会被弯折。当弯折大到一定程度时就会围绕着太阳运动的轨道转，就像地球绕着太阳转，月球绕着地球转。这是宇宙中自然的曲线。
en:Now we owe the idea that space can ring like a drumto Albert Einstein — to whom we owe so much.Einstein realized that if space were empty,if the universe were empty,it would be like this picture,except for maybe without the helpful grid drawn on it.But if we were freely falling through the space,even without this helpful grid,we might be able to paint it ourselves,because we would notice that we traveled along straight lines,undeflected straight pathsthrough the universe.Einstein also realized —and this is the real meat of the matter —that if you put energy or mass in the universe,it would curve space,and a freely falling objectwould pass by, let&#39;s say, the Sunand it would be deflectedalong the natural curves in the space.It was Einstein&#39;s great general theory of relativity.Now even light will be bent by those paths.And you can be bent so muchthat you&#39;re caught in orbit around the Sun,as the Earth is, or the Moon around the Earth.These are the natural curves in space.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:不过爱因斯坦并没有意识到如果你把太阳压缩成直径6公里的球 –也就是说你把相当于地球质量一百万倍的物质压缩成直径6公里的球，你将制造出一个黑洞，这个物体的密度非常之大以至于如果光离它太近，也将无法逃脱－在宇宙中留下一个巨大的黑影，其实意识到这一点的人并非爱因斯坦，而是卡尔·史瓦西他是一个德国犹太人，在一战中–他加入德军，在俄国前线工作，那时已经是位非常杰出的科学家了。我乐于想象史瓦西躺在战壕里计算着加农炮的弹道轨迹，然后再时不时地，算算爱因斯坦方程–试想一下那是什么样的一个情景。他当时正在读爱因斯坦刚发表的广义相对论，他被这个理论震惊了。并且很快推导出一个精确的数学解描述了一个非常异常的结果：如果弯折过于强烈宇宙将向内部塌陷，宇宙本身将弯曲得像一个瀑布一样流入一个洞中。光甚至都不能逃脱这股暗流。光会被拉入这个洞中就像其他所有东西一样，唯一留下的只是一个影子。
en:What Einstein did not realizewas that, if you took our Sunand you crushed it down to six kilometers —so you took a million times the mass of the Earthand you crushed it to six kilometers across,you would make a black hole,an object so densethat if light veered too close, it would never escape —a dark shadow against the universe.It wasn&#39;t Einstein who realized this,it was Karl Schwarzschildwho was a German Jew in World War I —joined the German army already an accomplished scientist,working on the Russian front.I like to imagine Schwarzschild in the war in the trenchescalculating ballistic trajectories for cannon fire,and then, in between,calculating Einstein&#39;s equations —as you do in the trenches.And he was reading Einstein&#39;s recently publishedgeneral theory of relativity,and he was thrilled by this theory.And he quickly surmisedan exact mathematical solutionthat described something very extraordinary:curves so strongthat space would rain down into them,space itself would curve like a waterfallflowing down the throat of a hole.And even light could not escape this current.Light would be dragged down the holeas everything else would be,and all that would be left would be a shadow.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:他写信给爱因斯坦，他说：“正如你将看到的，战争对我还是挺仁慈的，尽管周围的炮火很猛烈。但我已经习惯了不去想它把精力用来思考你所提出的想法。”爱因斯坦被他的精确解深深吸引，我想同时也被他那种科学家的执着所吸引。这是一个在恶劣环境中仍努力工作的科学家。爱因斯坦第二周将史瓦西的想法带到了普鲁士科学院。不过爱因斯坦一直认为黑洞只是一个数学奇点。他并不相信真的存在黑洞。他相信大自然会阻止黑洞的形成以保护我们。人们在数十年之后才开始使用“黑洞”这一名词并且意识到黑洞是真实存在的天体 –事实上，它们是一些质量极大的恒星在它们生命的终点发生灾难性坍缩后的死亡状态。
en:Now he wrote to Einstein,and he said, &quot;As you will see,the war has been kind to me enough.Despite the heavy gunfire,I&#39;ve been able to get away from it alland walk through the land of your ideas.&quot;And Einstein was very impressed with his exact solution,and I should hope also the dedication of the scientist.This is the hardworking scientist under harsh conditions.And he took Schwarzschild&#39;s ideato the Prussian Academy of Sciences the next week.But Einstein always thought black holes were a mathematical oddity.He did not believe they existed in nature.He thought nature would protect us from their formation.It was decadesbefore the term &quot;black hole&quot; was coinedand people realizedthat black holes are real astrophysical objects —in fact they&#39;re the death stateof very massive starsthat collapse catastrophicallyat the end of their lifetime.
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:我们的太阳不会坍缩形成黑洞。它的质量其实不足够大。但是，如果我们做了一些思想实验 –爱因斯坦非常喜欢这样做 –我们可以假想把太阳粉碎后压缩在六公里的范围内，然后在围绕它的轨道上放一个小小的地球，比如放在离黑洞太阳30公里远的轨道上。地球将自己发光，因为现在太阳已经不见了，我们没有其他光源 –因此，我们小小的地球得自己发光。你会发现，你甚至可以把地球放在离黑洞30公里外的轨道上并且让它开心地绕轨道运行。这个黑洞其实只有差不多曼哈顿那么大。在它摧毁地球之前，它可能会膨胀到哈德森大街。但基本上这就是我们在讨论的东西。我们讨论的是一个被压缩到曼哈顿一半那么大的一个物体。
en:Now our Sun will not collapse to a black hole.It&#39;s actually not massive enough.But if we did a little thought experiment —as Einstein was very fond of doing —we could imagineputting the Sun crushed down to six kilometers,and putting a tiny little Earth around it in orbit,maybe 30 kilometersoutside of the black-hole sun.And it would be self-illuminated,because now the Sun&#39;s gone, we have no other source of light —so let&#39;s make our little Earth self-illuminated.And you would realize you could put the Earth in a happy orbiteven 30 kmoutside of this crushed black hole.This crushed black holeactually would fit inside Manhattan, more or less.It might spill off into the Hudson a little bitbefore it destroyed the Earth.But basically that&#39;s what we&#39;re talking about.We&#39;re talking about an object that you could crush downto half the square area of Manhattan.
时间： 6:43
zh-cn:所以我们把这个地球移动到离黑洞接近的地方 –30公里处 –我们注意到它沿着完美的轨道绕黑洞运行。有一些传言说黑洞将吞噬宇宙中的一切，但实际上你必须离得非常近才会真的掉进去。但令人印象深刻的是，从我们的角度来看，我们总能看到地球。它无法躲在黑洞后面。从地球发出的光，一部分落入黑洞，但还有一部分被黑洞弯折后被我们看到。所以你不能在一个黑洞后面藏任何东西。如果这是太空堡垒卡拉狄加中的剧情而你正和赛昂人战斗，不要躲在黑洞后面。它们可以看到你。
en:So we move this Earth very close —30 kilometers outside —and we notice it&#39;s perfectly fine orbiting around the black hole.There&#39;s a sort of myththat black holes devour everything in the universe,but you actually have to get very close to fall in.But what&#39;s very impressive is that, from our vantage point,we can always see the Earth.It cannot hide behind the black hole.The light from the Earth, some of it falls in,but some of it gets lensed around and brought back to us.So you can&#39;t hide anything behind a black hole.If this were Battlestar Galacticaand you&#39;re fighting the Cylons,don&#39;t hide behind the black hole.They can see you.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:我们的太阳不会坍缩成一个黑洞；它的质量不够大，但在我们的银河系中有数以万计的黑洞。如果其中的一个在吞噬银河系，它看上去将会是这个样子。我们将会看到一个黑洞的影子投在银河系中数千亿颗恒星以及恒星照亮的尘埃带上。如果我们坠向这个黑洞，我们会看到光在黑洞周围被折射，我们甚至在开始进入这个阴影的时候完全不会感觉到一些巨大的变化正悄然发生。如果我们试图启动火箭并离开那里，结果不会很好，因为我们不可能逃离，连光也不可能逃离。
en:Now, our Sun will not collapse to a black hole —it&#39;s not massive enough —but there are tens of thousands of black holes in our galaxy.And if one were to eclipse the Milky Way,this is what it would look like.We would see a shadow of that black holeagainst the hundred billion starsin the Milky Way Galaxy and its luminous dust lanes.And if we were to fall towards this black hole,we would see all of that light lensed around it,and we could even start to cross into that shadowand really not notice that anything dramatic had happened.It would be bad if we tried to fire our rockets and get out of therebecause we couldn&#39;t,anymore than light can escape.
时间： 8:00
zh-cn:虽然黑洞从外面看是漆黑的，但是在里面看并非如此，因为所有星系的光线都可以随着我们一起落入黑洞。而且即便如此，由于相对论的时间膨胀效应，我们的时钟相比银河系的时间而言似乎变慢了，这看起来就好像外面的星系在加速变化，就在我们自己被黑洞摧毁之前。这就像体验濒临死亡的感觉，你看到了隧道尽头的光明，不过这可是一个完整的死亡体验。（笑声）你没有办法告诉任何人你在隧道尽头看到了光明。
en:But even though the black hole is dark from the outside,it&#39;s not dark on the inside,because all of the light from the galaxy can fall in behind us.And even though, due to a relativistic effect known as time dilation,our clocks would seem to slow downrelative to galactic time,it would look as though the evolution of the galaxyhad been sped up and shot at us,right before we were crushed to death by the black hole.It would be like a near-death experiencewhere you see the light at the end of the tunnel,but it&#39;s a total death experience.(Laughter)And there&#39;s no way of telling anybodyabout the light at the end of the tunnel.
时间： 8:38
zh-cn:到目前为止，我们从来没有见过这样一个黑洞留下的阴影，但黑洞可以被听到，即使它们不能被看到。想象一下，在一个真实的天文学景象里 –想象两个已经一起存在了很长时间的黑洞。也许它们以前是恒星之后坍缩成了两个黑洞 –每一个的质量都是太阳的10倍。现在我们把它们压缩到60公里之内。它们每秒可以旋转数百次。在生命的尽头，它们以光速彼此靠近。在几分之一秒内就能穿越了数千公里。在这个过程中，它们不仅会使空间发生弯曲，还会在身后的尾流中造成空间的振动，一种真实存在的时空波。黑洞在和宇宙发生撞击的时候使得空间发生挤压和拉伸。这些振动以光速在太空中传播。
en:Now we&#39;ve never seen a shadow like this of a black hole,but black holes can be heard,even if they&#39;re not seen.Imagine now taking an astrophysically realistic situation —imagine two black holes that have lived a long life together.Maybe they started as starsand collapsed to two black holes —each one 10 times the mass of the Sun.So now we&#39;re going to crush them down to 60 kilometers across.They can be spinninghundreds of times a second.At the end of their lives,they&#39;re going around each other very near the speed of light.So they&#39;re crossing thousands of kilometersin a fraction of a second,and as they do so, they not only curve space,but they leave behind in their wakea ringing of space,an actual wave on space-time.Space squeezes and stretchesas it emanates out from these black holesbanging on the universe.And they travel out into the cosmosat the speed of light.
时间： 9:33
zh-cn:这个计算机模拟是由国家航空航天局戈达德的相对论组完成的。解决这个问题前后花了近30年的时间。这是众多小组中的一个。它展示了两个黑洞围绕着对方转动，这些是想象中的曲线。正如你所看到的 – 可能有些模糊 –你能看到由红色的波被发射出来，这些就是引力波。它们是实实在在的宇宙的声音，这些声音将在黑洞相互融合的过程中以光速从这些黑洞向外传播，直到这两个黑洞融为一体成为一个安静地旋转着的黑洞。如果你站得足够近，你的耳朵会与这些空间的挤压和拉伸产生共鸣。你真的能够亲耳听到这些声音。当然，你会无助地发现你的头也被挤压和拉伸，所以你可能无法理解究竟发生了什么。不过我愿意为你们播放一下我们预测的声音。
en:This computer simulationis due to a relativity group at NASA Goddard.It took almost 30 years for anyone in the world to crack this problem.This was one of the groups.It shows two black holes in orbit around each other,again, with these helpfully painted curves.And if you can see — it&#39;s kind of faint —but if you can see the red waves emanating out,those are the gravitational waves.They&#39;re literally the sounds of space ringing,and they will travel out from these black holes at the speed of lightas they ring down and coalesceto one spinning, quiet black holeat the end of the day.If you were standing near enough,your ear would resonatewith the squeezing and stretching of space.You would literally hear the sound.Now of course, your head would be squeezed and stretched unhelpfully,so you might have trouble understanding what&#39;s going on.But I&#39;d like to play for youthe sound that we predict.
时间：10:26
zh-cn:这是我的小组的研究成果 -一个相对简略的计算模型。想象一个质量较小的黑洞落入一个质量较大的黑洞。你听到的声音来自小质量黑洞在靠近大质量黑洞的过程中与空间发生的碰撞。如果它们距离很远，声音会非常小。但渐渐的声音变得像一个鼓槌敲打着空间，让空间像鼓一样发生振动。我们可以预测这个声音会变成什么样。我们知道，在坠落的过程中，小质量黑洞会越来越快，发出的声音也更响亮。最终，我们将听到小黑洞完全掉进了大黑洞。（咚）它们不见了。我从来没觉得这声音有这么响 - 在这儿它实际上被放大了。在家里听的时候，觉得这声音有些不给力。听起来就像，叮，叮，叮。
en:This is from my group —a slightly less glamorous computer modeling.Imagine a lighter black holefalling into a very heavy black hole.The sound you&#39;re hearingis the light black hole banging on spaceeach time it gets close.If it gets far away, it&#39;s a little too quiet.But it comes in like a mallet,and it literally cracks space,wobbling it like a drum.And we can predict what the sound will be.We know that, as it falls in,it gets faster and it gets louder.And eventually,we&#39;re going to hear the little guy just fall into the bigger guy.(Thumping)Then it&#39;s gone.Now I&#39;ve never heard it that loud — it&#39;s actually more dramatic.At home it sounds kind of anticlimactic.It&#39;s sort of like ding, ding, ding.
时间：11:28
zh-cn:这是我们研究小组模拟的另一个声音。我在这儿并不会给大家展示图像，因为黑洞不会留下任何有用的踪迹，真正的空间也不会向你展示那些虚拟的曲线。不过如果你在宇宙中度假的时候听到这个声音，我建议你赶快跑。（笑）最好赶快远离这声音。这两个黑洞都在移动。两个黑洞在向彼此靠近。在这种情况下，它们都在猛烈地摇晃。然后，它们将融为一体。（咚）它们不见了。那个尖锐的声音是黑洞融合的标志 -融合结束的时候就会发出尖锐的响声。这是我们对我们将会看到的东西所做出的预测。
en:This is another sound from my group.No, I&#39;m not showing you any images,because black holes don&#39;t leave behindhelpful trails of ink,and space is not painted,showing you the curves.But if you were to float by in space on a space holidayand you heard this,you want to get moving.(Laughter)Want to get away from the sound.Both black holes are moving.Both black holes are getting closer together.In this case, they&#39;re both wobbling quite a lot.And then they&#39;re going to merge.(Thumping)Now it&#39;s gone.Now that chirp is very characteristic of black holes merging —that it chirps up at the end.Now that&#39;s our predictionfor what we&#39;ll see.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:幸运的是我们在加州长滩非常安全。毋庸置疑，在宇宙的某个地方两个黑洞已经融合在一起。同样毋庸置疑的是，我们周围的空间也能感受到这些穿越一百万光年的，或者说来自一百万年前的振动，它们以光速传播并最终与我们相遇。但这些声音太小，以至于我们根本听不到。世界上有些实验需要耗费很多心血才能搭建起来 –其中有一个叫LIGO的的实验 -它将能检测到每四公里的距离上小于一个原子核范围的空间振动。这是一个非常大胆的尝试，它的灵敏度在未来几年里将不会被超越 - 它将用来检测空间振动。另外一个关于宇宙的研究项目有望在未来十年内启动，这个项目叫LISA。LISA将可以看到超大质量的黑洞 -那些质量是太阳的几百万倍甚至几十亿倍的黑洞。
en:Luckily we&#39;re at this safe distance in Long Beach, California.And surely, somewhere in the universetwo black holes have merged.And surely, the space around usis ringingafter traveling maybe a million light years, or a million years,at the speed of light to get to us.But the sound is too quiet for any of us to ever hear.There are very industrious experiments being built on Earth —one called LIGO —which will detect deviationsin the squeezing and stretching of spaceat less than the fraction of a nucleus of an atomover four kilometers.It&#39;s a remarkably ambitious experiment,and it&#39;s going to be at advanced sensitivitywithin the next few years — to pick this up.There&#39;s also a mission proposed for space,which hopefully will launch in the next ten years,called LISA.And LISA will be able to see super-massive black holes —black holes millions or billions of timesthe mass of the Sun.
时间：13:17
zh-cn:从哈勃望远镜传回的图像里，我们看到这两个星系。看起来它们像是静止地拥抱在一起。它们的中心可能分别存在着一个质量巨大的超级黑洞。但它们并非静止不动，实际上它们正在融合。这两个黑洞将发生碰撞，它们的融合将经历数十亿年的时间。因此搜集它们发出的声音已经超出了我们人类的感知极限。但LISA可以看到两个在很早之前就开始发生融合的超大质量黑洞的最后阶段，也就是它们融合前的15分钟。这种探测并不只限于黑洞，它还能用来探测宇宙中任何大的扰动 -其中最大的扰动要数“宇宙大爆炸”了。当这个词语被创造出来的时候，有些人嘲弄说 -“噢，谁会相信宇宙大爆炸？”但现在看来这个词语其实从字面上来看可能是非常准确的，因为它确实可能爆炸;发出砰的一声。
en:In this Hubble image, we see two galaxies.They look like they&#39;re frozen in some embrace.And each one probably harborsa super-massive black hole at its core.But they&#39;re not frozen;they&#39;re actually merging.These two black holes are colliding,and they will merge over a billion-year time scale.It&#39;s beyond our human perceptionto pick up a song of that duration.But LISA could see the final stagesof two super-massive black holesearlier in the universe&#39;s history,the last 15 minutes before they fall together.And it&#39;s not just black holes,but it&#39;s also any big disturbance in the universe —and the biggest of them all is the Big Bang.When that expression was coined, it was derisive —like, &quot;Oh, who would believe in a Big Bang?&quot;But now it actually might be more technically accuratebecause it might bang.It might make a sound.
时间：14:09
zh-cn:这个有我在Proton Studios的朋友制作的动画短片展示了从外部观看大爆炸的情景。我们其实绝不会愿意真的这样；我们希望置身于宇宙的内部，因为根本不存在置身宇宙之外这样的情况。所以，想象一下你置身于大爆炸之中。宇宙无处不在，世间万物都环绕在你的周围，空间在无序地摇摆。140亿年过去了，而这声音依然萦绕在我们身边。星系逐渐形成，一批一批的恒星在星系中形成。在某个星球上，至少存在一个这样的星球，适合生命居住。在这里，我们疯狂地搭建实验，做计算，写计算机代码。
en:This animation from my friends at Proton Studiosshows looking at the Big Bang from the outside.We don&#39;t ever want to do that actually. We want to be inside the universebecause there&#39;s no such thing as standing outside the universe.So imagine you&#39;re inside the Big Bang.It&#39;s everywhere, it&#39;s all around you,and the space is wobbling chaotically.Fourteen billion years passand this song is still ringing all around us.Galaxies form,and generations of stars form in those galaxies,and around one star,at least one star,is a habitable planet.And here we are frantically building these experiments,doing these calculations, writing these computer codes.
时间：14:46
zh-cn:想象一下，十亿年前，两个黑洞相撞。这声音一直以来都在时空中穿梭。我们甚至都没出现在这里。它越来越近 -40,000年前，我们还在洞穴的石壁上画画。画上的人仿佛在说“快，把仪器搭建起来。”时间进一步推进，在20XX年...未来的某一年我们终于拥有了高灵敏度的先进探测器 -我们建造这些探测器，打开开关，砰，我们捕捉到了这个声音 - 来自太空的第一首歌曲。如果我们所要获取的声音是宇宙大爆炸发出的，它听起来会像这样。（抨击声）这声音真难听。严格地讲，它就是噪声。这是一种白噪声，一种混乱的铃声。但它在我们周围无处不在，只要它没有被宇宙中的某些其他过程所抵消的话。如果我们能够探测到这些声音，对我们的耳朵来说这将像音乐一般，因为这安静的回声来自于我们被创造的瞬间，来自于我们抬头遥望的宇宙。
en:Imagine a billion years ago,two black holes collided.That song has been ringing through spacefor all that time.We weren&#39;t even here.It gets closer and closer —40,000 years ago, we&#39;re still doing cave paintings.It&#39;s like hurry, build your instruments.It&#39;s getting closer and closer, and in 20 ...whatever year it will bewhen our detectors are finally at advanced sensitivity —we&#39;ll build them, we&#39;ll turn on the machinesand, bang, we&#39;ll catch it — the first song from space.If it was the Big Bang we were going to pick up,it would sound like this.(Static) It&#39;s a terrible sound.It&#39;s literally the definition of noise.It&#39;s white noise; it&#39;s such a chaotic ringing.But it&#39;s around us everywhere, presumably,if it hasn&#39;t been wiped outby some other process in the universe.And if we pick it up, it will be music to our earsbecause it will be the quiet echoof that moment of our creation,of our observable universe.
时间：15:42
zh-cn:因此在未来的几年里，我们将能把这些配乐的音量调大一点点，让宇宙以音频的形式呈现给我们。但是，如果我们能够探测到那些最早的瞬间，它还将使我们离理解大爆炸更进一步，使我们能够去追问一些最为困难，同时也最为飘渺的问题。如果我们倒着播放宇宙的历程，我们可以知道过去曾有过一次大爆炸，我们甚至可以听到它那吵杂的声音，但我们的大爆炸是宇宙中唯一的大爆炸吗？我的意思是我们不禁会问，在那之前有没有发生过类似的大爆炸呢？将来会不会再次发生呢？我想说如果把这个问题的意义上升到TED所倡导的引发人们重新思考的这个层面，至少在这最后一分钟里，我们可以提出一些问题，那些我们确实可能永远也回答不了的问题。
en:So within the next few years,we&#39;ll be able to turn up the soundtrack a little bit,render the universe in audio.But if we detect those earliest moments,it&#39;ll bring us that much closerto an understanding of the Big Bang,which brings us that much closerto asking some of the hardest, most elusive, questions.If we run the movie of our universe backwards,we know that there was a Big Bang in our past,and we might even hear the cacophonous sound of it,but was our Big Bang the only Big Bang?I mean we have to ask, has it happened before?Will it happen again?I mean, in the spirit of rising to TED&#39;s challengeto reignite wonder,we can ask questions, at least for this last minute,that honestly might evade us forever.
时间：16:30
zh-cn:但我们不禁要问：我​们的宇宙会不会只是一部更宏大的历史中的一段插曲？又或者说，我们会不会只是多元宇宙中的一个分支 –每个分支都曾经历过自己的大爆炸 –也许它们中的一些存在嗡嗡作响的黑洞，也许有些没有 –也许一些存在有意识的生命，也许有些不存在 –它们不属于我们的过去，也不存在于我们的未来，而是以某种方式与我们联系在一起？因此，我们忍不住会猜测，如果存在一个多元宇宙，在这个多元宇宙中的其他分支中，存在生命吗？这是我们这个多元宇宙中生命。多元宇宙中是否还有其他生命，他们会不会也在猜测我们的存在，思考着他们自己的起源？如果是这样的，我能想象他们与我们一样，做计算，编写计算机代码，搭建实验仪器，试图探测那些来自于他们起源时的微弱声音，并怀疑还有谁在那里。
en:But we have to ask:Is it possible that our universeis just a plume off of some greater history?Or, is it possible that we&#39;re just a branch off of a multiverse —each branch with its own Big Bang in its past —maybe some of them with black holes playing drums,maybe some without —maybe some with sentient life, and maybe some without —not in our past, not in our future,but somehow fundamentally connected to us?So we have to wonder, if there is a multiverse,in some other patch of that multiverse,are there creatures?Here&#39;s my multiverse creatures.Are there other creatures in the multiverse,wondering about usand wondering about their own origins?And if they are,I can imagine them as we are,calculating, writing computer code,building instruments,trying to detect that faintest soundof their originsand wondering who else is out there.
时间：17:28
zh-cn:谢谢。谢谢大家。
en:Thank you. Thank you.
时间：17:31
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
