时间： 0:11
zh-cn:大家好。我叫 Jarrett Krosoczka我以写儿童书籍和给书配插图为生想象力，因此贯穿我工作的始终但就在想象力成为我的工作之前它拯救了我
en:Hello. My name is Jarrett Krosoczka,and I write and illustrate books for children for a living.So I use my imagination as my full-time job.But well before my imagination was my vocation,my imagination saved my life.
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:当我还是一个孩子时，我非常喜爱画画对我来说，最天才的艺术家就是妈妈但她对海洛因上瘾而当你的父母之一和毒品有染时你就会有种就 查理斯布朗（snoopy的主人）想去踢足球一样的感觉你是那么想去爱那个人也是那么想得到那个人的关爱但当每次你试图敞开心扉时，在我的整个童年，母亲是被监禁起来的我也没有父亲甚至在上六年级之前不知道自己父亲的名字但幸好还有祖父母在Joseph 和Shirley他们在我满三岁的时候收养了我并把我带到他们家在他们已经养了5个孩子之后。因此在80年代早期，极度萧条中生活过来的祖父母又收养了一个孩子.我是那情景喜剧中Krosoczka 家庭中的表亲 Oliver一个不知道打哪儿来的新成员
en:When I was a kid, I loved to draw,and the most talented artist I knewwas my mother,but my mother was addicted to heroin.And when your parent is a drug addict,it&#39;s kind of like Charlie Brown trying to kick the football,because as much as you want to love on that person,as much as you want to receive love from that person,every time you open your heart, you end up on your back.So throughout my childhood, my mother was incarceratedand I didn&#39;t have my father becauseI didn&#39;t even learn his first name until I was in the sixth grade.But I had my grandparents,my maternal grandparents Joseph and Shirley,who adopted me just before my third birthdayand took me in as their own,after they had already raised five children.So two people who grew up in the Great Depression,there in the very, very early &#39;80s took on a new kid.I was the Cousin Oliver of the sitcomof the Krosoczka family,the new kid who came out of nowhere.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:我可以这么说，生活对他们而言很容易他们一天抽2包烟，我指的是每个人，绝不夸张而那时我才六岁我会点一杯鸡尾酒一口喝干，然后再一边发抖鸡尾酒中的冰块，使你能适应度数更高的饮料
en:And I would like to say that life was totally easy with them.They each smoked two packs a day, each, nonfiltered,and by the time I was six,I could order a Southern Comfort Manhattan,dry with a twist, rocks on the side,the ice on the side so you could fit more liquor in the drink.
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:即使是这样，他们还是很爱我。他们是这样的爱我以至于他们支持我创造性的尝试祖父白手起家他经营着一个工厂祖母则是家庭主妇但这个孩子喜爱变形金刚喜爱史努比和忍者神龟以及其他在书中认识的角色他们成了我的朋友因而我这辈子最好的朋友就是书里这些卡通形象
en:But they loved the hell out of me. They loved me so much.And they supported my creative efforts,because my grandfather was a self-made man.He ran and worked in a factory.My grandmother was a homemaker.But here was this kid who loved Transformersand Snoopy and the Ninja Turtles,and the characters that I read about, I fell in love with,and they became my friends.So my best friends in life were the charactersI read about in books.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:我上的是位于马萨诸塞州 ，伍斯特的Gates Lane小学在那里有很多出色的老师教过我其中我印象最深的是一年级的 Alisch 老师尤其是她对我们学生的爱
en:I went to Gates Lane Elementary School in Worcester, Massachusetts,and I had wonderful teachers there,most notably in first grade Mrs. Alisch.And I just, I can just remember the love that she offeredus as her students.
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:我三年级那年一件值得纪念的事情发生了Jack Gantos ，这位作家访问了我们学校一位出过书的作家向我们讲述他所为生的事业演讲结束后，我们陆续回到教室画了有关他构造的主要人物的作品Rotten Ralph突然，作家出现在教室的门口我还记得他那时闲逛一般的在走道间穿过一言不发的一个个的浏览孩子们的作品到我的桌子旁，他停下了然后轻轻敲了几下桌子，说“这猫不错” （笑声）之后又游荡走了这简短的话语却对我人生产生了巨大影响
en:When I was in the third grade,a monumental event happened.An author visited our school, Jack Gantos.A published author of books came to talk to usabout what he did for a living.And afterwards, we all went back to our classroomsand we drew our own renditions of his main character,Rotten Ralph.And suddenly the author appeared in our doorway,and I remember him sort of sauntering down the aisles,going from kid to kid looking at the desks, not saying a word.But he stopped next to my desk,and he tapped on my desk, and he said,&quot;Nice cat.&quot; (Laughter)And he wandered away.Two words that made a colossal difference in my life.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:三年级的时候，我写出了自己的第一本书“一只觉得自己是最好飞行员的猫头鹰” （笑声）那时我们被要求自创希腊神话自编自创，于是我就写了个猫头鹰的故事它向赫尔墨斯下挑战飞行速度还作弊了赫尔墨斯，这位希腊神祗，又气又恨把猫头鹰变成了月亮这猫头鹰只好每夜眼睁睁地看这他的家人和朋友玩耍自己却只能作为月亮孤独的度过余生没错 (笑声）
en:When I was in the third grade, I wrote a book for the first time,&quot;The Owl Who Thought He Was The Best Flyer.&quot; (Laughter)We had to write our own Greek myth,our own creation story, so I wrote a story about an owlwho challenged Hermes to a flying race,and the owl cheated,and Hermes, being a Greek god, grew angry and bitter,and turned the owl into a moon,so the owl had to live the rest of his life as a moonwhile he watched his family and friends play at night.Yeah. (Laughter)
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:这本书还有个标题页很显然我在8岁的时候就开始担心知识产权的问题了（笑声）这是本图文并茂的书正如我现在所做的事情一样书中有些页全靠文字讲述也有些页我全交给图画来阐释
en:My book had a title page.I was clearly worried about my intellectual property when I was eight.(Laughter)And it was a story that was told with words and pictures,exactly what I do now for a living,and I sometimes let the words have the stage on their own,and sometimes I allowed the pictures to work on their ownto tell the story.
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:我最爱的一页是 “ 关于作者” 页（笑声）看，这么小小年纪我就会用第三人称介绍自己了
en:My favorite page is the &quot;About the author&quot; page.(Laughter)So I learned to write about myself in third personat a young age.
时间： 4:28
zh-cn:尤其是最后一句话 ：“ 来自他满怀热爱之作。”我爱写书是因为喜欢让自己的想象力满页跑而这也正是写作本身就是一股脑儿把想象力涂到纸页上去当我看到现在在很多学校，想象力已经变成一个陌生的概念的时候我觉得这是一件可怕是事情因为写作本应是和想象力相关的事情因为孩子们如果被允许的话，即使是在上课时间也是好的。我热爱写作以至于每每放学回家就会拿出几张纸把它们订在一起然后就会又写又画把空白纸填的满满当当仅仅因为发挥想象力是这么让我开心
en:So I love that last sentence: &quot;He liked making this book.&quot;And I liked making that book because I loved using my imagination,and that&#39;s what writing is.Writing is using your imagination on paper,and I do get so scared because I travel to so many schools nowand that seems like such a foreign concept to kids,that writing would be using your imagination on paper,if they&#39;re allowed to even write now within the school hours.So I loved writing so much that I&#39;d come home from school,and I would take out pieces of paper,and I would staple them together,and I would fill those blank pages with words and picturesjust because I loved using my imagination.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:我创造出的卡通形象也成了我的朋友这是鸡蛋兄，土豆兄，莴笋头，和南瓜兄它们都住在冰箱城在它们的奇遇记中，它们闯进了一间鬼屋危机四伏有 想把它们一同绞碎的恶魔搅拌机有 试图绑架面包夫妇的邪恶烤面包机还有想要融化它们的朋友 黄油兄的微波炉怪此外我还自制漫画这也是我通过文字和图画来讲故事的又一种方式
en:And so these characters would become my friends.There was an egg, a tomato, a head of lettuce and a pumpkin,and they all lived in this refrigerator city,and in one of their adventures they went to a haunted housethat was filled with so many dangerslike an evil blender who tried to chop them up,an evil toaster who tried to kidnap the bread couple,and an evil microwave who tried to melt their friendwho was a stick of butter. (Laughter)And I&#39;d make my own comics too,and this was another way for me to tell stories,through words and through pictures.
时间： 5:42
zh-cn:后来我上六年级的时候伍斯特公立学校系统的公共资金单单不承担艺术开支我上艺术班的频率从一周一次到一个月两次到一个月一次，最后干脆取消了外祖父是个聪明人他很快就发现了这个问题，他知道这是我有的唯一乐趣我从不参加体育活动艺术就是我的天下于是一天晚上，他走进我的房间在我的床边坐下说道：“Jarrett，这事儿你来定，我们想送你去伍斯特艺术馆的班学习，你觉得怎么样？“再没有比这更令我惊喜的事情了于是从六年级到十二年级一周一到三次我会去艺术馆上课在那里我被那些热爱绘画，有着相同热情的孩子们围绕着
en:Now when I was in sixth grade,the public funding all but eliminated the arts budgetsin the Worcester public school system.I went from having art once a weekto twice a monthto once a month to not at all.And my grandfather, he was a wise man,and he saw that as a problem, because he knewthat was, like, the one thing I had. I didn&#39;t play sports.I had art.So he walked into my room one evening,and he sat on the edge of my bed,and he said, &quot;Jarrett, it&#39;s up to you, but if you&#39;d like to,we&#39;d like to send you to the classes at the Worcester Art Museum.&quot;And I was so thrilled.So from sixth through 12th grade,once, twice, sometimes three times a week,I would take classes at the art museum,and I was surrounded by other kids who loved to draw,other kids who shared a similar passion.
时间： 6:29
zh-cn:我的出版事业是从我设计我们八年级课本封面开始的如果你好奇为什么我给这吉祥物穿上这样风格的服装我可以告诉你那时我超爱Bell Biv Devoe 和 MC Hammer以及Vanilla Ice （笑声)即使到今天，我还能在卡拉OK中吼出 ” Ice,Ice Baby&quot;不带看屏幕的哦别惹我，我真做的出来
en:Now my publishing career began when I designed the coverfor my eighth grade yearbook,and if you&#39;re wondering about the style of dress I put our mascot in,I was really into Bell Biv DeVoe and MC Hammerand Vanilla Ice at the time. (Laughter)And to this day, I still can do karaoke to &quot;Ice, Ice Baby&quot;without looking at the screen.Don&#39;t tempt me, because I will do it.
时间： 6:54
zh-cn:我给送去了私立学校之前从幼儿园到八年级我一直在公立学校，但因为某些原因祖父有些不安因为在当地高校，有人被刺杀了因此他不想让我去公立学校而想送我去私立学校了，那时他给了我几个选项可以去Holy Name, 一所男女混校也可以选男子学校 St.John&#39;s他了解我会自己做这个选择他也知道我不会去 St.John&#39;s之后我去了Holy Name 高中这真是个艰难的转变因为我对体育活动不感兴趣而这个学校很重视体育但我在 Shilale 老师的画室找到了安慰.我天天泡在那里每天都迫不及待的想去那个教室
en:So I get shipped off to private school,K through eight, public schools, but for some reasonmy grandfather was upset that somebodyat the local high school had been stabbed and killed,so he didn&#39;t want me to go there.He wanted me to go to a private school, and he gave me an option.You can go to Holy Name, which is coed,or St. John&#39;s, which is all boys.Very wise man, because he knew I would,I felt like I was making the decision on my own,and he knew I wouldn&#39;t choose St. John&#39;s,so I went to Holy Name High School,which was a tough transition because, like I said,I didn&#39;t play sports,and it was very focused on sports,but I took solace in Mr. Shilale&#39;s art room.And I just flourished here.I just couldn&#39;t wait to get to that classroom every day.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:你问我这样怎么交到朋友的？那时我画了很多关于老师的搞笑漫画 （笑声）并且在全班传着看额，我们九年级的时候，有天英语课，我朋友 John，我的同桌笑的太厉害了弄的Greenwood 老师不太高兴（笑声）他立刻发现了我是罪魁祸首于是我这辈子第一次给“请”去了办公室那时我想：“ 天，这下我完了。外公他会杀了我的.....&quot;这时老师出来了，站在走廊上，说“ 把那张纸给我看看。”“ 天，不是吧，他以为那是笔记....&quot;我想道我拿出那张画，递给了他一瞬间的沉默之后他开口了”你太有才了.“ （笑声）” 这画的真不错，知道么，校报需要新的漫画家，我觉得你应该去。但以后别在我的课上画画了啊。”
en:So how did I make friends?I drew funny pictures of my teachers — (Laughter) —and I passed them around.Well, in English class, in ninth grade,my friend John, who was sitting next to me,laughed a little bit too hard.Mr. Greenwood was not pleased.(Laughter)He instantly saw that I was the cause of the commotion,and for the first time in my life, I was sent to the hall,and I thought, &quot;Oh no, I&#39;m doomed.My grandfather&#39;s just going to kill me.&quot;And he came out to the hallway and he said,&quot;Let me see the paper.&quot;And I thought, &quot;Oh no. He thinks it&#39;s a note.&quot;And so I took this picture, and I handed it to him.And we sat in silence for that brief moment,and he said to me,&quot;You&#39;re really talented.&quot; (Laughter)&quot;You&#39;re really good. You know, the school newspaperneeds a new cartoonist, and you should be the cartoonist.Just stop drawing in my class.&quot;
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:因此我的父母从不知道这件事情我并没惹出麻烦，还被介绍给了 Casey老师，她是校报的负责人于是我担任了三年半的校报漫画家担负重任，像学长们的不近人情新人的书呆气质毕业舞会都贵的离谱。我不敢相信它要花这么多钱校长也没能幸免后来我写了个连载的故事，关于一个在恋爱中不幸的男生Wesley，我一直在努力澄清这不是我的故事但多年后我真变成了他
en:So my parents never found out about it.I didn&#39;t get in trouble. I was introduced to Mrs. Casey,who ran the school newspaper,and I was for three and a half yearsthe cartoonist for my school paper,handling such heavy issues as,seniors are mean,freshmen are nerds,the prom bill is so expensive. I can&#39;t believe how much it costs to go to the prom.And I took the headmaster to taskand then I also wrote an ongoing story about a boy named Wesleywho was unlucky in love, and I just swore up and downthat this wasn&#39;t about me,but all these years later it was totally me.
时间： 9:27
zh-cn:但这并没有什么坏处，相反我认为 我能写这些故事、想出这些点子实在是一件太酷的事情了这些故事被发表在校报上被那些我不认识的人读到这种可以通过印刷物 分享自己点子的感觉我非常喜欢
en:But it was so cool because I could write these stories,I could come up with these ideas,and they&#39;d be published in the school paper,and people who I didn&#39;t know could read them.And I loved that thought, of being able to share my ideasthrough the printed page.
时间： 9:40
zh-cn:在我14岁生日那年，我的祖父祖母给了我有史以来最棒的一件礼物一张制图桌，我自那起一直在用它看，现在20年过去了我每天还是伏在这张桌子上工作14岁生日的那天晚上我收到了那张桌子，吃了中餐这就是我的财富：“ 你会在你的工作中取得成功的。”我把这句话印在了桌子左上方你们可以看到，它还在那里其实 我还真没有找我的祖父母要过什么东西不，还是有两件的：四年级的时候要了Rusty，一只可爱的仓鼠，它真的活了很久。（笑声）以及一台摄影机我特别想要一台摄影机在以圣诞礼物的名义下苦苦哀求之后我终于得到了一台二手摄影机然后立马开始做我自己的卡通动画全由我一手制作整个高中我都在做原创的动画片还说服了我10年级的英语老师允许我用短动画的方式来做斯蒂芬金 《一号书迷》的读书报告。 （笑声）
en:On my 14th birthday, my grandfather and my grandmothergave me the best birthday present ever:a drafting table that I have worked on ever since.Here I am, 20 years later,and I still work on this table every day.On the evening of my 14th birthday,I was given this table, and we had Chinese food.And this was my fortune:&quot;You will be successful in your work.&quot;I taped it to the top left hand of my table,and as you can see, it&#39;s still there.Now I never really asked my grandparents for anything.Well, two things: Rusty, who was a great hamsterand lived a great long life when I was in fourth grade.(Laughter)And a video camera.I just wanted a video camera.And after begging and pleading for Christmas,I got a second-hand video camera,and I instantly started making my own animationson my own,and all throughout high school I made my own animations.I convinced my 10th grade English teacher to allow meto do my book report on Stephen King&#39;s &quot;Misery&quot;as an animated short. (Laughter)
时间：10:56
zh-cn:我也一直在画漫画一直坚持着，并且在伍斯特的艺术馆里得到了我的教育者所能给我的最伟大建议Mark Lynch，他是个极好的老师也始一直是我非常要好的朋友那时我十四五岁的样子我在他漫画课的中途加入了我兴奋的要命，特别开心。我当时有一本教人如何用一种奇异的方式来表现漫画的书其中还包括如何画超级英雄怎样描绘一个女人，怎么绘出肌肉的肌理如果我来画X-Men 或者 蜘蛛人的话他们就是这个样子他的脸一下子就失去了应有的颜色，黯淡下来，他看着我说“ 忘记你所学的全部。”我没有理解。他解释到：“你有自己独特的风格。发挥自己的特点。不要被规矩所束缚。坚持你自己的方式不要改变因为这样真的很好。“
en:And I kept making comics.I kept making comics, and at the Worcester Art Museum,I was given the greatest piece of advice by any educator I was ever given.Mark Lynch, he&#39;s an amazing teacherand he&#39;s still a dear friend of mine,and I was 14 or 15,and I walked into his comic book class halfway through the course,and I was so excited, I was beaming.I had this book that was how to draw comics in the Marvel way,and it taught me how to draw superheroes,how to draw a woman, how to draw musclesjust the way they were supposed to beif I were to ever draw for X-Men or Spiderman.And all the color just drained from his face,and he looked at me, and he said,&quot;Forget everything you learned.&quot;And I didn&#39;t understand. He said, &quot;You have a great style.Celebrate your own style. Don&#39;t draw the way you&#39;re being told to draw.Draw the way you&#39;re drawing and keep at it,because you&#39;re really good.&quot;
时间：11:52
zh-cn:那时做为一个少年，我和其他人一样多愁善感但这17年，在拥有一个像悠悠球一样在我生命中进进出出的母亲以及一个从未露面的父亲之后，我有些愤世嫉俗而17岁那年，我第一次和自己的父亲见了面那时我才知道我有一个哥哥和一个姐姐并且就在我们见面的那天我被我选择的唯一一个大学Rhode Island 学院拒绝了
en:Now when I was a teenager, I was angsty as any teenager was,but after 17 years of having a motherwho was in and out of my life like a yo-yoand a father who was faceless, I was angry.And when I was 17, I met my father for the first time,upon which I learned I had a brother and sister I had never known about.And on the day I met my father for the first time,I was rejected from the Rhode Island School of Design,my one and only choice for college.
时间：12:20
zh-cn:但在这段时间，我去了阳光夏令营去做了一个星期的志愿者，和那些最神奇的孩子共事那些患有白血病的孩子，其中一个叫Eric的孩子改变了我的人生他没能活过6岁之前的那些时光他是同我一块度过的
en:But it was around this time I went to Camp Sunshineto volunteer a week and working with the most amazing kids,kids with leukemia, and this kid Eric changed my life.Eric didn&#39;t live to see his sixth birthday,and Eric lives with me every day.
时间：12:33
zh-cn:在经历了这些之后，我的美术老师，Shilale带来了这些图画书我灵光一闪：“ 给孩子们看的画书！“于是在高中三年级的时候我开始为年轻读者写书我最终还是进入了Rhode Island 设计学院作为一名大二的转校生。在那里的时光，我尽可能的上所有的写作课就是那时候我写出了一个关于一个想和这个孩子做朋友的巨大橙色鼻涕虫的故事这小孩对它一点耐心也没有。我试着把这本书送去了一大堆的出版商那里但每次都遭了拒但我加入了 Hole in the Wall Gang 露营它是为那些有着各种重病的孩子所办的，神奇的地方正是那里的孩子，成为了我读者当我给他们讲这些故事的时候，我可以看到他们给我的回应
en:So after this experience, my art teacher, Mr. Shilale,he brought in these picture books,and I thought, &quot;Picture books for kids!&quot;and I started writing books for young readerswhen I was a senior in high school.Well, I eventually got to the Rhode Island School of Design.I transferred to RISD as a sophomore,and it was there that I took every course that I could on writing,and it was there that I wrote a story about a giant orange slugwho wanted to be friends with this kid.The kid had no patience for him.And I sent this book out to a dozen publishersand it was rejected every single time,but I was also involved with the Hole in the Wall Gang Camp,an amazing camp for kids with all sorts of critical illnesses,and it&#39;s those kids at the camp that read my stories,and I read to them, and I saw that they responded to my work.
时间：13:21
zh-cn:后来我从RISD 毕业了，祖父母非常自豪再后来我搬去了波士顿，自立门户创立了一个工作室，试图出版那些书我把自己的书，还有上百张明信片寄给编辑和美术导演但它们仿佛入海的石，悄无声息每周我的祖父都会给我打电话有时他会问，“ Jarrett，最近怎么样，你现在找到工作了吗？”因为他在我的大学教育中投入了很大一笔钱我回答道，“ 找到了啊，我编写儿童书籍 .&quot;他又问 ” 那谁为你买单呢？”我说 “ 还没有，暂时还没有 .不过我知道很快就会有了.”
en:I graduated from RISD. My grandparents were very proud,and I moved to Boston, and I set up shop.I set up a studio and I tried to get published.I would send out my books. I would send out hundreds of postcardsto editors and art directors,but they would go unanswered.And my grandfather would call me every week,and he would say, &quot;Jarrett, how&#39;s it going? Do you have a job yet?&quot;Because he had just invested a significant amount of moneyin my college education.And I said, &quot;Yes, I have a job. I write and illustrate children&#39;s books.&quot;And he said, &quot;Well, who pays you for that?&quot;And I said, &quot;No one, no one, no one just yet.But I know it&#39;s going to happen.&quot;
时间：13:58
zh-cn:那时，我常常几个周末几个周末的投入 Hole in the Wall 的淡季工作为了能自立，我得多赚些外快这孩子一直非常精力旺盛于是我给他取了个外号 “ 猴仔&quot;回到家后，我写了一本书 叫做 《晚安，猴仔》并寄出了最后一批明信片不久之后我就收到了一封来自兰登书屋编辑的邮件标题是 ” 好样的! &quot;
en:Now, I used to work the weekends at the Hole in the Wall off-season programmingto make some extra money as I was trying to get my feet off the ground,and this kid who was just this really hyper kid,I started calling him &quot;Monkey Boy,&quot;and I went home and wrote a book called &quot;Good Night, Monkey Boy.&quot;And I sent out one last batch of postcards.And I received an email from an editor at Random Housewith a subject line, &quot;Nice work!&quot; Exclamation point.
时间：14:25
zh-cn:&quot; Dear Jarrett, 我们收到了你的明信片.我很喜欢你的作品，于是去了你的网站我很好奇你有没有试着写过你自己的故事我真的很喜欢你的作品，感觉这之中有这一些故事如果你到了纽约，请务必通知我.&quot;这封邮件来自Random House少儿书籍的编辑
en:&quot;Dear Jarrett, I received your postcard.I liked your art, so I went to your websiteand I&#39;m wondering if you ever tried writing any of your own stories,because I really like your art and it looks like there are some stories that go with them.Please let me know if you&#39;re ever in New York City.&quot;And this was from an editor at Random House Children&#39;s Books.
时间：14:44
zh-cn:于是下一周我 “正好“出现在纽约（笑声）于是我见到了这个编辑之后为了我的第一本书我离开了纽约” 晚安，猴仔“后来在2001年的 六月12号出版
en:So the next week I &quot;happened&quot; to be in New York.(Laughter)And I met with this editor,and I left New York for a contract for my first book,&quot;Good Night, Monkey Boy,&quot;which was published on June 12, 2001.
时间：14:59
zh-cn:当地的报纸还报导庆祝了这事。书店也大幅宣传了这件事进的书都被卖完了我的朋友说这事挺累的但也很让人开心因为所有人都排着队想来见我这可不是因为我去世了，我在签售呢祖父母在人群之中感到非常高兴。他们实在是自豪的不能更自豪了Alisch，Shilale，Casey这几位老师都在这里Alisch老师插到了队伍的前排，一边说”是我教会他识字的。“ （笑声)
en:And my local paper celebrated the news.The local bookstore made a big deal of it.They sold out of all of their books.My friend described it as a wake, but happy,because everyone I ever knew was there in line to see me,but I wasn&#39;t dead. I was just signing books.My grandparents, they were in the middle of it.They were so happy. They couldn&#39;t have been more proud.Mrs. Alisch was there. Mr. Shilale was there. Mrs. Casey was there.Mrs. Alisch cut in front of the line and said,&quot;I taught him how to read.&quot; (Laughter)
时间：15:33
zh-cn:后来发生了件改变了我人生的事情我收到了第一封正式的粉丝来信来自一个非常热爱猴仔的孩子他很想要一个猴仔的生日蛋糕给一个两岁的男生，看起来就像个纹身一样想想看你一年就只有一次生日对他而言，是他的两岁于是我拍了这张照片，&quot; 这张照片会一直存在在他的意识之中这一生他都会把这张照片好好的保留在家庭相册里。“
en:And then something happened that changed my life.I got my first piece of significant fan mail,where this kid loved Monkey Boy so muchthat he wanted to have a Monkey Boy birthday cake.For a two-year-old, that is like a tattoo. (Laughter)You know? You only get one birthday per year.And for him, it&#39;s only his second.And I got this picture, and I thought,&quot;This picture is going to live within his consciousnessfor his entire life. He will forever have this photoin his family photo albums.&quot;
时间：16:04
zh-cn:这张照片，从那刻起就成了我在创作其他作品时，照亮前路的光芒
en:So that photo, since that moment,is framed in front of me while I&#39;ve worked on all of my books.
时间：16:10
zh-cn:至今我已经出版了10本图画书了《朋克庄园》《布袋头》《紫象Ollie》我刚刚完成《午餐女士》系列的第九本书，这是个绘图小说系列关于一个和罪恶势力作斗争的食堂大妈我很期待 那本章回小说《鸭嘴兽警察队：呱呱叫的青蛙》的发行我在全国旅行，拜访了无数的学校让很多孩子相信他们画的猫很棒
en:I have 10 picture books out.&quot;Punk Farm,&quot; &quot;Baghead,&quot; &quot;Ollie the Purple Elephant.&quot;I just finished the ninth bookin the &quot;Lunch Lady&quot; series, which is a graphic novel seriesabout a lunch lady who fights crime.I&#39;m expecting the release of a chapter bookcalled &quot;Platypus Police Squad: The Frog Who Croaked.&quot;And I travel the country visiting countless schools,letting lots of kids know that they draw great cats.
时间：16:38
zh-cn:我遇见了一大群 布袋头还有对我很好的 午餐女士们我看见自己的名字变得闪闪发亮是这些孩子给我的荣耀”午餐女士“系列曾两次获得了”年度孩子最喜爱图书 “三四年级组的奖项获奖者的姓名被陈列在时代广场的巨大液晶屏幕上《朋克农庄》和《午餐女士》都将被拍成电影而我是电影制作人我必须说的是，多亏了那台我在九年级得到的摄影机我见过 人们举办《朋克庄园》的生日聚会在万圣节的时候打扮成《朋克庄园》里角色的样子这是个朋克庄园风的婴儿房弄的我有点担心这个孩子今后的长期发展
en:And I meet Bagheads.Lunch ladies treat me really well.And I got to see my name in lightsbecause kids put my name in lights.Twice now, the &quot;Lunch Lady&quot; series has wonthe Children&#39;s Choice Book of the Year in the third or fourth grade category,and those winners were displayedon a jumbotron screen in Times Square.&quot;Punk Farm&quot; and &quot;Lunch Lady&quot; are in development to be movies,so I am a movie producerand I really do think, thanks to that video cameraI was given in ninth grade.I&#39;ve seen people have &quot;Punk Farm&quot; birthday parties,people have dressed up as &quot;Punk Farm&quot; for Halloween,a &quot;Punk Farm&quot; baby room,which makes me a little nervous for the child&#39;s well-being in the long term.
时间：17:25
zh-cn:我还收到了这些绝妙的粉丝来信还有最让人叫绝的设计对我而言最重要的瞬间来自上个万圣节门铃响后跳出来个 ”不给糖就捣乱“的孩子打扮成我笔下角色的样子。这实在太帅了
en:And I get the most amazing fan mail,and I get the most amazing projects,and the biggest moment for me came last Halloween.The doorbell rang and it was a trick-or-treaterdressed as my character. It was so cool.
时间：17:40
zh-cn:如今我的祖父母已经不在人世为了纪念他们，我在伍斯特的艺术馆开设了一项奖学金给那些处于艰难状况抚养人无法负担艺术课程费用的孩子们在那里展出我出版事业前十年的作品猜猜谁在那儿为我庆祝？是Alisch老师
en:Now my grandparents are no longer living,so to honor them, I started a scholarship at the Worcester Art Museumfor kids who are in difficult situationsbut whose caretakers can&#39;t afford the classes.And it displayed the work from my first 10 years of publishing,and you know who was there to celebrate? Mrs. Alisch.
时间：17:58
zh-cn:我问道 &#39; Alisch老师，你现在怎么样了？“
en:I said, &quot;Mrs. Alisch, how are you?&quot;
时间：17:59
zh-cn:她回答道：”我不是在这儿么。“ （笑声）
en:And she responded with, &quot;I&#39;m here.&quot; (Laughter)
时间：18:03
zh-cn:的确。您还活着，而且状况不错。
en:That&#39;s true. You are alive, and that&#39;s pretty good right now.
时间：18:09
zh-cn:但我人生中最重大的一个瞬间是我当了爸爸我有两个美丽的女儿我现在的目标就是让他们的生活中处处充满着灵感之光通过把书摆在屋里的每个房间通过我在墙上画的壁画通过把握 在安静之中发现的创意瞬间通过在天井上画出笑脸通过让她们坐在那张我已经坐了20年的桌子上。谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:So the biggest moment for me, though,my most important job now is I am a dad myself,and I have two beautiful daughters,and my goal is to surround them by inspiration,by the books that are in every single room of our houseto the murals I painted in their roomsto the moments for creativity where you find, in quiet times,by making faces on the patioto letting her sit in the very deskthat I&#39;ve sat in for the past 20 years.Thank you. (Applause)
