时间： 0:12
zh-cn:交点是个产生奇迹的地方。实际上，我想说，人类历史上许多最伟大的事情都发生在交点，发生在中间地带，所谓中间地带，意思是位于交汇处的空间。那里有自由，这种自由，来源于不确定性，是一种全新的自我定义。说几个世界上最有名的交点吧，巴黎的埃菲尔铁塔，还有纽约的时代广场，两者都人潮涌动，热闹异常。还有其他的交点，比如阿拉巴马州塞尔玛市的埃德蒙佩特斯大桥，还有密苏里州弗格森市的坎菲尔德路和铜溪路交汇处，那里是人类巨大能量的交汇处，上演了意识形态和追求司法公正的斗争。
en:Great things happen at intersections.In fact, I would arguethat some of the most interesting thingsof the human experienceoccur at the intersections,in the liminal space,where by liminalI mean the space in-between.There&#39;s freedom in that in-between,freedom to create from the indefinitenessof not-quite-here, not-quite-there,a new self-definition.Some of the great intersectionsof the world come to mind,like the Arc de Triomphe in Paris,or Times Square in New York City,both bustling with the excitementof a seemingly endless stream of people.Other intersections,like the Edmund Pettus Bridgein Selma, Alabama,or Canfield Drive and Copper Creek Courtin Ferguson, Missouri, also come to mindbecause of the tremendous energyat the intersection of human beings,ideologies and the ongoingstruggle for justice.
时间： 1:14
zh-cn:除了陆地上的物理景观，一些最著名的天体现象也发生于交点。恒星诞生于气体和尘埃的交汇，被万有引力拉拽在一起。恒星的死亡同样来源于交汇，但这次是向外抛出，比较小的原子经过剧烈碰撞，互相交汇，发生高效核聚变反应，生成新的更重的物质。我们都能想到对自己有特殊意义的交点。而成为“交点的”，意思是在交点占有一席之地。
en:Beyond the physicallandscape of our planet,some of the most famous celestial imagesare of intersections.Stars are born at the messyintersection of gas and dust,instigated by gravity&#39;s irrevocable pull.Stars die by this same intersection,this time flung outwardin a violent collision of smaller atoms,intersecting and efficiently fusinginto altogether new and heavier things.We can all think of intersectionsthat have special meaning to us.To be intersectional, then,is to occupy a positionat an intersection.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:我一直生活在向交地带，徜徉于梦想和现实，种族和性别，贫穷与富足，科学和人文之间。我是黑人，又是女性。就如同星辰的诞生一般，（我的身份）是一种宿命的强烈结合，是多种身份的融合爆发。
en:I&#39;ve lived the entirety of my lifein the in-between,in the liminal spacebetween dreams and reality,race and gender,poverty and plenty,science and society.I am both black and a woman.Like the birth of stars in the heavenlies,this robust combination of knowingresults in a shining exampleof the explosive fusion of identities.
时间： 2:23
zh-cn:我还是一名天体物理学家。我研究耀变体，超大质量活跃黑洞，它们位于巨大星系的中心，从这些黑洞附近射出喷射流，速度接近光速，我们仍在研究这一过程，尚未完全搞懂。
en:I am also an astrophysicist.I study blazars, supermassive,hyperactive black holesthat sit at the centersof massive galaxiesand shoot out jetsnearby those black holesat speeds approaching the speed of lightin a process we are still tryingto completely understand.
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:成为天体物理学家一直是我的梦想，从我12岁那年就开始了。当年的我，还完全不知道，根据杰米·亚历山大博士针对从事物理工作的非裔美籍女性的研究，在美国，只有18名黑人女性在物理学相关学科获得了博士学位，而第一位获得天文学相关领域博士学位的黑人女性是在我出生前一年才毕业的。
en:I have dreamedof becoming an astrophysicistsince I was 12 years old.I had no idea that at that time,according to Dr. Jamie Alexander&#39;s archiveof African-American women in physics,only 18 black women in the United Stateshad ever earned a PhDin a physics-related discipline,and that the first black woman to graduatewith a PhD in an astronomy-related fielddid so just one year before my birth.
时间： 3:13
zh-cn:在我的人生道路上，我经历了生命的美好与残酷：既遇到了定义自我的绝好机会，也经历了理想和现实的碰撞，既体验过取得成功的喜悦，时不时的，还要品尝重头再来的苦果。
en:As I journeyed along my path,I encountered the best and worstof life at an intersection:the tremendous opportunity to self-define,the collision of expectationand experience,the exhilarationof victorious breakthroughsand, sometimes,the explosive pain of regeneration.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:我的大学生涯伊始，家庭就分崩离析。随着父亲离我们而去，家里的经济状况急转直下。我的母亲，姐姐和我，一下子从衣食无忧的中产阶级生活掉入了勉强维持生计的生活状态。就这样，我与其他差不多60%的女性有色人种一样，财务状况成为我们求学的主要障碍。幸运的是，诺福克州立大学为我提供了全额奖学金，我成功获得了物理学学士学位。
en:I began my college experiencejust after my family had fallen apart.Our financial situation disintegratedjust after my father&#39;sdeparture from our lives.This thrust my mother, my sister and Iout of the relative comfortof middle-class lifeand into the almost constant struggleto make ends meet.Thus, I was one of roughly60 percent of women of colorwho find finances to be a major barrierto their educational goals.Thankfully, Norfolk State Universityprovided me with full funding,and I was able to achievemy bachelor&#39;s in physics.
时间： 4:13
zh-cn:毕业以后，尽管怀揣成为天体物理学博士的梦想，但现实依旧不遂人愿。是一张海报拯救了我的梦想，当然还多亏一些好心人和项目。美国物理学会为了鼓励有色人种学生成为物理学家，设计了一张非常美的海报。它深深打动了我，海报上是一个黑人小女孩，也许12岁左右，在非常认真地解物理方程。这让我想起了曾经的自己，那个曾经敢于梦想的小女孩。我立刻给学会发了封邮件，请他们给我一张海报，现在这张海报还挂在我的办公室里。我在邮件里讲述了我的求学之路，也表达了自己想继续攻读博士学位，实现自我价值的想法。他们将我介绍到“菲斯克－范德堡大学桥梁计划”，这个计划本身就是个交点，涵盖来自两所大学的硕士和博士学位。我在离开学校两年后，加入这个计划，再次踏上了成为博士的道路。
en:After graduation, and despite knowingthat I wanted a PhD in astrophysics,I fell through the cracks.It was a poster that saved my dream,and some really incrediblepeople and programs.The American Physical Societyhad this beautiful posterencouraging students of colorto become physicists.It was striking to mebecause it featured a young black girl,probably around 12 years old,looking studiouslyat some physics equations.I remember thinkingI was looking directly backat the little girlwho first dared to dream this dream.I immediately wrote to the Societyand requested my personalcopy of the poster,which to this daystill hangs in my office.I described to them in the emailmy educational path,and my desire to find myself againin pursuit of the PhD.They directed me to the Fisk-VanderbiltUniversity Bridge Program,itself an intersectionof the master&#39;s and PhD degreesat two institutions.After two years out of school,they accepted me into the program,and I found myself againon the path to the PhD.
时间： 5:28
zh-cn:在菲斯克大学获得硕士学位后，我去了耶鲁大学，完成了博士学业。看来，只要我占据了有利位置，踏上通往博士之路，实现我的儿时梦想，获得博士学位就是分分钟的事。
en:After receiving my master&#39;s at Fisk,I went on to Yale to complete my PhD.Once I was physically occupyingthe space that would ultimately give wayto my childhood aspirations,I anticipated a smooth glide to the PhD.
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:但很显然，并不是每个人都允许自己的领域出现像我们这样的人。我被许多同学排斥，其中一个极为过分，他要求我“去做我应该做的工作”然后把食堂的所有脏盘子都丢给我。我也曾希望这只是个别现象，但是对于许多非白人女性而言，尤其是那些在科学、技术、工程和数学领域——简称STEM——工作的，这种事儿对她们而言已是家常便饭。60名非白人女性参加了一项调查由加州大学哈斯汀法学院的琼·C·威廉姆斯发起，她们全部声称自己遭遇过种族性别歧视，包括被误认为是看门人。而同样参加此项调查的白人女性从未遇到过类似遭遇，而参加调查的女性共有557位。当然，看门人的工作并没有什么问题，实际上我的祖辈们能够上大学多亏了他们的父母有很多就是看门人，很明显，（我同学）这样做是给我画地为牢。
en:It became immediately apparentthat not everyone was thrilledto have that degree of liminalityin their space.I was ostracized by many of my classmates,one of whom went so far as to invite meto &quot;do what I really came here to do&quot;as he pushed all the dirty dishesfrom our meal in front of me to clean up.I wish that were an isolated occurrence,but for many women of colorin science, technology, engineering,and mathematics, or STEM,this is something they have long endured.One hundred percentof the 60 women of colorinterviewed in a recent studyby Joan C. Williams at UC Hastingsreported facing racialized gender bias,including being mistakenfor the janitorial staff.This mistaken identity was not reportedby any of the white womeninterviewed for this study,which comprised 557 women in total.While there is nothing inherently wrongwith a janitorial position,and in fact my forefathers and foremotherswere able to attend collegebecause many of their parentsworked these jobs,it was a clear attemptto put me in my place.
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:尽管这样的遭遇让人极度痛苦，但问题的关键在于，我的出现能让大家看到我的能力。除此之外，值得注意的一点是，在STEM领域工作的非白人女性所遭遇到的阻碍，比单纯的女性或者单纯的有色人种要大得多。正因为此，我今天才想要特别说说她们，她们因为自己的多重身份而遭歧视，无法避免，亦被认为理所应当。
en:While there was certainlythe acute pain of the encounter,the real issue is that my appearancecan tell anyone anything about my ability.Beyond that, though, it underscoresthat the women of color in STEMdo not experience the same set of barriersthat just womenor just people of color face.That&#39;s why today I want to highlightwomen of color in STEM,who are inexorably, unapologeticallyliving as the inseparablesum of identities.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:STEM本身就是个交叉领域，要感受它的丰富内涵，需要充分理解学科间的交叉。科学追求的是理解物理世界，采取的方式是化学、物理、生物，当然也少不了数学的帮助。工程学需要将基本的科学和数学知识，应用到生活领域。技术则以数学、工程学和科学作为其坚实的基础。数学则扮演着罗塞塔石碑的角色，承担着对物理原理的编码和解码工作。STEM各学科相辅相成，缺一不可。也就是说，当STEM与其它学科结合时，会迸发出无法想象的能量。
en:STEM itself is an intersectional term,such that its true richnesscannot be appreciatedwithout consideringthe liminal space between disciplines.Science, the pursuitof understanding the physical worldby way of chemistry, physics, biology,cannot be accomplishedin the absence of mathematics.Engineering requires the applicationof basic science and mathto the lived experience.Technology sits firmlyon the foundation of math,engineering and science.Math itself servesthe critical role of Rosetta Stone,decoding and encodingthe physical principles of the world.STEM is utterly incompletewithout each individual piece.This is to say nothingof the enrichment that is realizedwhen STEM is combinedwith other disciplines.
时间： 8:29
zh-cn:我今天演讲的目的有两个：第一，我想告诉所有黑人、拉丁裔人、原住民、第一民族或者其他任何种族的女人和女孩，她们被搁置在种族和性别的交叉地带不受重视，我要告诉她们，你们可以成为想成为的人。我个人希望你们能成为天体物理学家，但不强求，任何职业都可以。千万不要认为，因为出身的限制，你就不能成为自己梦想成为的人。紧紧抓住梦想，它会带你进入一个美妙的世界。
en:The purpose for this talk is twofold:first, to say directly to every black,Latina, indigenous, First Nationor any other woman or girlwho finds herself restingat the blessed intersectionof race and gender,that you can be anything you want to be.My personal hope isthat you&#39;ll become an astrophysicist,but beyond that, anything you want.Do not think for one minutethat because you are who you are,you cannot bewho you imagine yourself to be.Hold fast to those dreamsand let them carry youinto a world you can&#39;t even imagine.
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:第二，当今最为紧迫的问题中，大部分都能找到与STEM的交集。通过国际社会的合作，我们已经解决了当今面临的大部分单一问题。而剩下的那些，则需要进行跨学科的全面研究，才能在未来找到全面的解决方案。有谁能比我们这些一辈子都生活在交叉地带的人更适合于来解决这样的问题呢？我们作为思想领袖和决策者，必须推动（人才）多样化向前进，建立兼容并蓄，机会均等，兴旺发达的（学术）领域。
en:Secondly, among the mostpressing issues of our time,most now findtheir intersection with STEM.We have as a global society solvedmost of the single-facetedissues of our time.Those that remainrequire a thorough investigationof the liminal space between disciplinesto create the multifacetedsolutions of tomorrow.Who better to solve these liminal problemsthan those who have facedtheir whole lives at the intersections.We as thought leaders and decision makersmust push pastthe first steps of diversityand into the richerand more robust territoryof full inclusion and equal opportunity.
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:我最欣赏的一位具有交叉才能的榜样是已故的克劳迪娅·亚历山大博士，她是一名黑人女性，等离子物理学家，她与乳腺癌斗争了10年之久，于7月份刚刚过世。她是美国太空总署项目科学家，在罗塞塔计划中带领美国太空总署的团队，罗塞塔计划因为今年成功登陆彗星而闻名，还有耗资15亿美元的伽俐略木星探测计划，这是两项非常了不起的科学成就，对美国太空总署，对美国，对全世界而言都是如此。亚历山大博士是这么说的：“我曾经在两种文化间游走。对我而言，我生命的意义之一，就是让我们从被忽略变成被理解，这需要极大的勇气和探索精神，不是那么轻而易举的。”
en:One of my favorite examplesof liminal excellencecomes from the late Dr. Claudia Alexander,a black woman plasma physicist,who passed away this past Julyafter a 10-year bout with breast cancer.She was a NASA project scientistwho spearheaded the NASA sideof the Rosetta mission,which became famous this yearfor landing a rover on a comet,and the 1.5 billion dollarGalileo mission to Jupiter,two high-profile scientific victoriesfor NASA, the United Statesand the world.Dr. Alexander said it this way:&quot;I&#39;m used to walking between two cultures.For me, it&#39;s among the purposes of my lifeto take us from states of ignoranceto states of understandingwith bold explorationthat you can&#39;t do every day.&quot;
时间：10:47
zh-cn:这恰恰体现了“交叉人”的力量。她有非凡的技术能力，能领导当代最雄心勃勃的太空任务，而且她非常明白自己的地位，无论在哪，她都能忠实的做自己。
en:This shows exactlythe power of a liminal person.She had the technical ability to spearheadsome of the most ambitiousspace missions of our time,and she perfectly understood her placeof being exactly who she wasin any place she was.
时间：11:05
zh-cn:杰西卡·马修斯，是体育产品SOCCKET的发明人，SOCCKET像足球一样，你在踢它的时候就能产生可再生能源，她这样说过：“发明的意义不仅仅在于创造产品，还在于理解人，理解组成这个世界的系统。”我之所以讲自己的故事，还有亚历山大博士和杰西卡·马修斯的故事，是因为从本质上来讲，这些都是关于交点的故事，关于种族、性别和创新是如何联系在一起的故事。
en:Jessica Matthews, inventorof the SOCCKET line of sports products,like soccer balls, that generaterenewable energy as you play with them,said it this way:&quot;A major part of inventionisn&#39;t just creating things,it&#39;s understanding peopleand understanding the systemsthat make this world.&quot;The reason I tell my storyand the story of Dr. Alexanderand Jessica Matthewsis because they are fundamentallyintersectional stories,the stories of lives lived at the nexusof race, gender and innovation.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:我不知道自己是否能算精英阶层，但我很骄傲地宣称，我，一名黑人女性，获得天体物理学博士学位，在耶鲁大学312年历史中是第一个。
en:Despite implicit and explicit questionsof my right to be in an elite space,I&#39;m proud to report that when I graduated,I was the first black womanto earn a PhD in astrophysicsin Yale&#39;s then 312-year history.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：12:00
zh-cn:我参加了一个很小，但是发展很快的组织，成员都是在STEM领域工作的非白人女性，我们集思广益，追求创新，致力于解决当代最为紧迫的问题：比如教育的不平等，警察滥用职权，艾滋病，气候变化，基因组编辑，人工智能，探索火星等等。简而言之，我们的研究领域包罗万象。
en:I am now part of a small but growing cadreof women of color in STEMwho are poised to bring new perspectivesand new ideas to lifeon the most pressing issues of our time:things like educational inequities,police brutality, HIV/AIDS,climate change, genetic editing,artificial intelligenceand Mars exploration.This is to say nothing of the thingswe haven&#39;t even thought of yet.
时间：12:28
zh-cn:可以说，STEM领域里的非白人女性，在当代社会技术中最艰难、最振奋人心的领域中占有一席之地。因此，我们处于独特的地位，能够推动这些课题的讨论，往更加多元化的方向发展。能吸纳更多处于交点的人才，他们的经历，无论是积极的还是消极的，都能使我们的研讨更加精彩纷呈，甚至要超过那些最优秀，但是同质化的群体。
en:Women of color in STEMoccupy some of the toughestand most exciting sociotechnologicalissues of our time.Thus, we are uniquely positionedto contribute toand drive these conversationsin ways that are more inclusiveof a wider variety of lived experience.This outlook can be expandedto the many intersectional peoplewhose experiences, positive and negative,enrich the conversationsin ways that outmatcheven the best-resourced homogenous groups.
时间：13:01
zh-cn:这不是因为渴望融入某个群体而产生的需求。而是一种提醒：如果我们缺乏合作，如果我们忽视交点处的人才，忽视他们与众不同的人生和丰富的经历，忽视他们的影响力，那么我们的成果，对人类这个整体而言，就不能算最好的。一句话，如果不全面考量天赋人性，我们就无法完全体现人类作为一个整体的智慧。
en:This is not a requestborn out of a desire to fit in.It&#39;s a reminder that we cannot getto the best possible outcomesfor the totality of humanitywithout precisely this collaboration,this bringing together of the liminal,the differently lived,distinctly experiencedand disparately impacted.Simply put, we cannot bethe most excellent expressionof our collective geniuswithout the full measureof humanity brought to bear.
时间：13:33
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：13:34
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
