时间： 0:11
zh-cn:好吧，他们介绍我是密歇根前州长，但其实我是一名科学家。是的，一名政治科学家并不算是真正的科学家，但是我的实验室是民主实验室，它在密歇根州，并且如任何一位出色的科学家一样，我进行的实验是关于政策，关于如何能够为最广大的民众带来最大福祉的政策。但是我面临着三个问题、三个我无法解决的谜团，我想在这里与你们分享这些问题，但最重要的是，我认为我找到了一个解决方案。
en:Well, I was introduced asthe former Governor of Michigan,but actually I&#39;m a scientist.All right, a political scientist, it doesn&#39;t really count,but my laboratory was the laboratory of democracythat is Michigan, and, like any good scientist,I was experimenting with policyabout what would achieve the greatest goodfor the greatest number.But there were three problems, three enigmasthat I could not solve,and I want to share with you those problems,but most importantly,I think I figured out a proposal for a solution.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:第一个问题是：不仅仅是密歇根州, 每一个州都面临着如何在全球化经济的大环境下在美国创造好的就业？
en:The first problemthat not just Michigan, but every state, faces is,how do you create good jobs in Americain a global economy?
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:首先让我们分享一下来自于我实验室的数据。我在2002年当选，2003年在我任期第一年即将结束时，我接到我的一名工作人员的电话，他告诉我说，“州长，我们遇到了一个大问题。密歇根州有一个很小的社区格林维尔市，人口为8000人，而他们即将失去当地最大的雇主－－－一家由伊莱克斯运营的电冰箱工厂。“
en:So let me share with you some empirical data from my lab.I was elected in 2002 and, at the end of my first year in office in 2003,I got a call from one of my staff members, who said,&quot;Gov, we have a big problem.We have a little tiny community called Greenville, Michigan,population 8,000,and they are about to lose their major employer,which is a refrigerator factory that&#39;s operated by Electrolux.&quot;
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:然后我问道：“当地有多少人在伊莱克斯工作？”
en:And I said, &quot;Well, how many people work at Electrolux?&quot;
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:他说：“8000名当地居民中的3000人。”
en:And he said, &quot;3,000 of the 8,000 people in Greenville.&quot;
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:所以这是一个由一家公司支撑着的小镇。而伊莱克斯打算将工厂迁到墨西哥。
en:So it is a one-company town.And Electrolux was going to go to Mexico.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:然后我说：“忘掉工厂搬迁吧。我是新任州长。我们将解决这个问题。我会带上其他政府官员前往格林维尔，我们要给伊莱克斯一个他们无法拒绝的提议。”
en:So I said, &quot;Forget that. I&#39;m the new Governor.We can fix this. We&#39;re going to go to Greenvillewith my whole cabinet and we will justmake Electrolux an offer they can&#39;t refuse.&quot;
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:之后我带去了全部政府官员，我们与格林维尔市当地所有的要员会面，包括市长、市执行长、社区学院院长等，可以说我们掏空了口袋，将所有可以用的筹码都摊到了桌面上，所有能说服伊莱克斯留在当地的理由，我们一边在努力拿出筹码，一边将它们送给谈判桌对面的伊莱克斯高管们。这些筹码中包括二十年免税，政府出资协助伊莱克斯建设一个全新的工厂。代表工人的工会出面表示他们将前所未有的作出一些让步和牺牲来保住格林维尔的那些工作岗位。
en:So I brought my whole cabinet,and we met with all of the pooh-bahs of little Greenville —the mayor, the city manager, the head of the community college —and we basically emptied our pocketsand put all of our chips on the table,incentives, you name it, to convince Electrolux to stay,and as we made our pile of chips,we slid them across the table to the management of Electrolux.And in the pile were things like zero taxes for 20 years,or that we&#39;d help to build a new factory for the company,we&#39;d help to finance it. The UAW, who represented the workers,said they would offer unprecedented concessions,sacrifices to just keep those jobs in Greenville.
时间： 2:40
zh-cn:伊莱克斯的高管们拿到了这些筹码，我们提供的刺激政策，然后他们走出了房间，17分钟后，他们回来了，然后说：“哇哦，这是为了保住当地的工作岗位任何社区提出过的最慷慨的提议。但是你们无法做到的是在墨西哥的华瑞兹我们只需要支付工人每小时1.57美元的薪水。所以我们还是要搬走。“
en:So the management of Electrolux took our pile,our list of incentives, and they went outside the roomfor 17 minutes,and they came back in and they said,&quot;Wow, this is the most generousany community has ever been to try to keep jobs here.But there&#39;s nothing you can doto compensate for the fact that we can pay $1.57 an hourin Juarez, Mexico. So we&#39;re leaving.&quot;
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:之后他们确实迁走了工厂。当他们搬走时，就好比一颗核弹击中了小小的格林维尔。事实上，他们确实炸掉了工厂。我记得那是一个走路来上最后一天班的人。关闭工厂那个月最后一个电冰箱从生产线上下来后，格林维尔市的伊莱克斯员工们自己组织了一次集会。他们将之称为最后的晚餐。那是格林维尔的一个很大的场馆，一个室内场馆，当时我之所以前往参加是因为作为州长我对无法阻止这些就业岗位的流失感到深深的挫败感，我想与他们一起感受痛苦，我走进场馆内看到那里聚集着数以千计的人。这真的是当地的一次大聚会。人们在圆桌上吃着盒装午餐，一支悲伤的乐队演奏着，或者是一支乐队演奏着悲伤的曲子，或者两者兼有。（笑）
en:And they did. And when they did, it was likea nuclear bomb went off in little Greenville.In fact, they did implode the factory.That&#39;s a guy that is walking on his last day of work.And on the month that the last refrigerator rolled off the assembly line,the employees of Electrolux in Greenville, Michigan,had a gathering for themselves that they called the last supper.It was in a big pavilion in Greenville, an indoor pavilion,and I went to it because I was so frustrated as Governorthat I couldn&#39;t stop the outflow of these jobs,and I wanted to grieve with them,and as I went into the room— there&#39;s thousands of people there.It was a just big thing. People were eating boxed luncheson roundtop tables, and there was a sad band playing music,or a band playing sad music, probably both. (Laughter)
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:这时这个人走到我面前，他身上有着纹身，梳着马尾辫，戴着一顶棒球帽。他的两个女儿跟在他身边，他说：“州长，这是我的两个女儿。”“我已经48岁了，我在这家工厂工作30年了。从高中毕业起我就来在这上班。我的父亲在这里工作过。”他继续说：“我的祖父也曾在这工作。我只知道如何组装电冰箱。”他看了看他的女儿们，然后将他的手放在胸前，说道：“州长，告诉我，谁会雇我？谁还会雇我？”同样的问题不仅被他一个人问起，场馆里的每一个人都问了，坦白地说，本世纪头十年里关闭的50000家工厂的每一名员工都问过同样的问题。所以第一个问题是：在全球化经济下的美国如何创造就业岗位？
en:And this guy comes up to me,and he&#39;s got tattoos and his ponytail and his baseball cap on,and he had his two daughters with him,and he said, &quot;Gov, these are my two daughters.&quot;He said, &quot;I&#39;m 48 years old,and I have worked at this factory for 30 years.I went from high school to factory.My father worked at this factory,&quot; he said.&quot;My grandfather worked at this factory.All I know is how to make refrigerators.&quot;And he looked at his daughters,and he puts his hand on his chest,and he says, &quot;So, Gov, tell me,who is ever going to hire me?Who is ever going to hire me?&quot;And that was asked not just by that guybut by everyone in the pavilion,and frankly, by every worker at one of the 50,000 factoriesthat closed in the first decade of this century.Enigma number one: How do you create jobsin America in a global economy?
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:接下来就是问题二：当这个国家连一个全国性的能源政策都没有时，当国会的僵局常态化时，我们如何解决全球气候变化问题？事实上，最近有一个民调被调查者对比了国会的支持率和一些其他令人不快的事情，结果发现国会的支持率甚至比蟑螂、虱子、五分钱合唱团、牙根管和唐纳德 · 特朗普还低。（笑）但是，好消息是国会的支持率还是比比毒品工厂和淋病高的。（笑声）我们遇到了问题，朋友们。
en:Number two, very quickly:How do you solve global climate changewhen we don&#39;t even have a national energy policy in this countryand when gridlock in Congress seems to be the norm?In fact, there was a poll that was done recentlyand the pollster compared Congress&#39;s approval ratingsto a number of other unpleasant things,and it was found, in fact, that Congress&#39;s approval ratingis worse than cockroaches,lice, Nickelback the band, root canals and Donald Trump. (Laughter)But wait, the good news is it&#39;s at least betterthan meth labs and gonorrhea. (Laughter)We got a problem, folks.
时间： 6:03
zh-cn:所以这让我思考问题到底出在哪里？我在我的实验室：民主实验室里看到了什么，究竟发生了什么？我们开出过什么样的政策处方它们既能真正改变现状还能被两党所接受？比如让我问你们，奧巴马政府的什么政策在全国范围造成了巨大的变化？你会说什么？你可能会说奥巴马医保，除了那些非自愿的变化外。但正如我们所知，只有半数的州选择了参与。我们也许会说经济复苏法案，但这并不需要政策上的变化。导致大规模政策变化的是“力争上游教育计划”。为什么？政府放出45亿美元，然后向全国的州长们说，来竞争吧。48名州长参与了竞争，说服了48个州议会通过了提高高中生教育标准，这样他们都将在高中完成大学预备课程。48个州加入了，这是从最底层制订了一个全国性的（教育）政策。
en:So it got me thinking, what is it?What in the laboratory that I see out there,the laboratories of democracy, what has happened?What policy prescriptions have happenedthat actually cause changes to occurand that have been accepted in a bipartisan way?So if I asked you, for example,what was the Obama Administration policythat caused massive changes across the country,what would you say?You might say Obamacare, except for those were not voluntary changes.As we know, only half the states have opted in.We might say the Recovery Act, but those didn&#39;t require policy changes.The thing that caused massive policy changes to occurwas Race to the Top for education.Why? The government put a $4.5 billion potand said to the governors across the country, compete for it.Forty-eight governors competed,convincing 48 state legislatures to essentiallyraise standards for high schoolersso that they all take a college prep curriculum.Forty-eight states opted in, creating a national [education] policy from the bottom up.
时间： 7:07
zh-cn:所以我想，为什么我们不能像这样来制订一个清洁能源项目竞争机制呢？毕竟当前环境下，在全球范围内来自于私营机构的投资在过去的8年中已经达到1.6万亿美金，每一美元都对应着一份工作，这些工作都去了哪里？这些工作都去了那些有政策的地方，比如中国。事实上我去中国看了看他们在做什么，当时他们正在为我所在的参观小组做一些大规模演示，在一场演示中当时我站在会议室的后面，旁边的一名中国官员，在我们正在看演示时问我说：&quot;州长，你认为美国什么时候能出台国家能源政策？&quot;我回答说：&quot;我的天啊，看看国会的僵局，谁知道呢？&quot;
en:So I thought, well, why can&#39;t we do something like thatand create a clean energy jobs race to the top?Because after all, if you look at the context,1.6 trillion dollars has been invested in the past eight yearsfrom the private sector globally,and every dollar represents a job,and where are those jobs going?Well, they&#39;re going to places that have policy, like China.In fact, I was in China to see what they were doing,and they were putting on a dog-and-pony show for the group that I was with,and I was standing in the back of the room during one of the demonstrationsand standing next to one of the Chinese officials,and we were watching, and he says,&quot;So, Gov, when do you think the U.S. is going to get national energy policy?&quot;And I said, &quot;Oh my God — Congress, gridlock, who knows?&quot;
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:而这是他接下来说的，&quot;慢慢来，不着急。“因为他们看到我们的迟缓为他们提供了机会。
en:And this is what he did, he goes, he says,&quot;Take your time.&quot;Because they see our passivity as their opportunity.
时间： 8:00
zh-cn:所以如果我们来创造一个面向全国所有州长们的挑战，而进入这个竞争的资金数额与两党在国会批准的“力争上游教育计划”为同样的数额：45 亿美元，这听起来是个大数目，但实际上它小于联邦政府开支的1%的十分之一。它相当于联邦开支的舍入误差。进入这项竞争的代价是，就用奥巴马总统的目标来说：他希望国会通过一个2030年达到80%比例的清洁能源标准。换言之，各州将必须在2030年达到80%的能源来自于清洁能源。为什么不直接让各州这样做？想象一下那可能会导致什么发生，因为每个地区都有一些东西可以提供。比如像爱荷华州和俄亥俄州－－－两个政治上非常重要的州－－－这两位州长，他们会说，我们要在全国带头生产风力发电机和风能。在比如那些太阳州，日照充足的州，他们会说我们要为全国提供太阳能，或许杰里 · 布朗会说：“嗯，我要在加利福尼亚州创建一个产业集群来生产太阳能接收板，这样我们就不需要从中国买进它们而是从美国购买太阳能接收板。&quot;事实上，这个国家的每一个地区都可以这样做，想一想，全国都可以找到获取太阳能和风能的机会。事实上，西面的上部和北部的各州他们可以开发地热，而如德克萨斯州会说：我们可以领导全国的智能电网发展方案。中东部有森林资源和农业废料的各州，他们可能会说：我们要去引领全国的生物燃料研究。东北上部地区会说：我们要领导全国的能源效率解决方案。东部沿海地区可以说：我们要引领全国的海上风力发电。再如密歇根州可以说：我们要将在生产电动汽车内部零配件方面引领全国，比如锂离子电池。每个区域都有一些东西可以提供，这样如果创立一个竞争机制，它即能尊重各州，也能尊重联邦制度。各州都可选择加入。甚至德克萨斯州和南卡罗莱纳州这些未加入“力争上游教育计划”的州都可能加入。为什么？因为共和党和民主党的州长们都喜欢剪彩带。我们想要创造就业机会。在这些民主实验室里孕育着国家级别的创新。
en:So what if we decided to createa challenge to the governors of the country,and the price to entry into this competitionused the same amount that the bipartisan group approved in Congressfor the Race to the Top for education, 4.5 billion,which sounds like a lot, but actually it&#39;s less thanone tenth of one percent of federal spending.It&#39;s a rounding error on the federal side.But price to entry into that competition would be,you could just, say, use the President&#39;s goal.He wants Congress to adopt a clean energy standardof 80 percent by 2030,in other words, that you&#39;d have to get 80 percentof your energy from clean sources by the year 2030.Why not ask all of the states to do that instead?And imagine what might happen,because every region has something to offer.You might take states like Iowa and Ohio —two very important political states, by the way —those two governors, and they would say,we&#39;re going to lead the nation in producingthe wind turbines and the wind energy.You might say the solar states, the sun belt,we&#39;re going to be the states that produce solar energy for the country,and maybe Jerry Brown says, &quot;Well, I&#39;m going to createan industry cluster in Californiato be able to produce the solar panelsso that we&#39;re not buying them from Chinabut we&#39;re buying them from the U.S.&quot;In fact, every region of the country could do this.You see, you&#39;ve got solar and wind opportunity all across the nation.In fact, if you look just at the upper and northern statesin the West, they could do geothermal,or you could look at Texas and say,we could lead the nation in the solutions to smart grid.In the middle eastern states which have access to forestsand to agricultural waste, they might say,we&#39;re going to lead the nation in biofuels.In the upper northeast, we&#39;re going to lead the nationin energy efficiency solutions.Along the eastern seaboard, we&#39;re going to lead the nationin offshore wind.You might look at Michigan and say, we&#39;re going to lead the nationin producing the guts for the electric vehicle, like the lithium ion battery.Every region has something to offer,and if you created a competition,it respects the states and it respects federalism.It&#39;s opt-in. You might even get Texas and South Carolina,who didn&#39;t opt into the education Race to the Top,you might even get them to opt in. Why?Because Republican and Democratic governorslove to cut ribbons.We want to bring jobs. I&#39;m just saying.And it fosters innovation at the state levelin these laboratories of democracy.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:现在，你们中任何最近在关注着政治的人可能会说：&quot;好吧，这是个好主意，但真的可行吗？国会能通过45亿美元的议案吗？他们不能就任何事达成一致。“所以你们可以等待国会通过，尽管你们应该要很不耐心。或者我们可以绕过国会。绕过国会。如果我们给州长们创立一个私营机构资助的竞争机制呢？如果在座的几家高市值的公司和个人决定他们将携手创立，只要他们中的几个，来为州长们建立一个全国性的竞争机制让他们力争上游看看州长们将作何反应？如果说所有的这一切都是从TED这里开始的呢？如果当你们在这里时我们想出了如何攻破难题在美国创造好的高薪工作（掌声）并制订出国家能源政策同时我们从最底层出发制订了一个国家能源战略呢？
en:Now, any of you who are watching anything about politics latelymight say, &quot;Okay, great idea, but really?Congress putting four and a half billion dollars on the table?They can&#39;t agree to anything.&quot;So you could wait and go through Congress,although you should be very impatient.Or, you renegades, we could go around Congress.Go around Congress.What if we created a private sector challenge to the governors?What if several of the high-net worth companiesand individuals who are here at TED decidedthat they would create, band together, just a couple of them,and create a national competition to the governorsto have a race to the topand see how the governors respond?What if it all started here at TED?What if you were herewhen we figured out how to crack the codeto create good paying jobs in America — (Applause) —and get national energy policyand we created a national energy strategy from the bottom up?
时间：11:55
zh-cn:我们可以做到，因为，亲爱的TED听众们，如果你们像我一样没有耐心，你们应该了解我们的经济竞争对手们、其他国家们都处在这个游戏中都在和我们抢夺午餐。我们可以处在这个游戏之中，也可以不在。我们可以在站在桌边也可以在坐在桌上。虽然我并不了解你们，但我更喜欢在坐在桌上用餐。
en:Because, dear TEDsters,if you are impatient like I am,you know that our economic competitors,our other nations, are in the gameand are eating us for lunch.And we can get in the game or not.We can be at the table or we can be on the table.And I don&#39;t know about you,but I prefer to dine.
时间：12:25
zh-cn:谢谢。（掌声）
en:Thank you all so much. (Applause)
