时间： 0:15
zh-cn:我基本上比较关心世界上所发生的事情。我不明白那些饥饿、破坏以及对无辜人们的杀戮搞清楚这些真是一件很难的事情12岁的时候，我成为了一个演员。我处于社会的最底层，没有任何资历。别人说我有诵读困难症。事实上，我也是有证书的。我在制作陶器上拿到了“D”，这的确是我得到的一个证书。显然，这是有用的。所以焦虑是所有这些的来源。作为一个演员，我一直在做着这些不同的事情。我觉得我参与的这些工作并没有让这种焦虑减少，而且我会越来越焦虑。
en:I was basically concerned about what was going on in the world.I couldn&#39;t understandthe starvation, the destruction,the killing of innocent people.Making sense of those thingsis a very difficult thing to do.And when I was 12, I became an actor.I was bottom of the class. I haven&#39;t got any qualifications.I was told I was dyslexic.In fact, I have got qualifications.I got a D in pottery, which was the one thing that I did get —which was useful, obviously.And so concernis where all of this comes from.And then, being an actor, I was doing these different kinds of things,and I felt the content of the work that I was involved inreally wasn&#39;t cutting it, that there surely had to be more.
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:在那个时候，我读了弗兰克·巴纳的一本书。他是一个伟大的核物理学家。他认为媒体有责任、社会的各个部门都有责任去尝试并推动事情的发展。这使我着迷，因为我大部分时间都一直拿着摄像机到处闲混。于是我想，或许我可以做点什么。没准我可以成为一个电影制片人。没准我可以积极地使用电影的形式来对某一方面做出改变。或许有一些我可以参与的变革。于是我开始思考和平，就像我跟你们所说的，我显然被这些图片深深感动了，并试着去找出它们的意义。我能去问一些年纪更大或者更明智的人他们会告诉我他们如何搞明白正在发生的这些事情么？这显然是非常可怕的
en:And at that point, I read a book by Frank Barnaby,this wonderful nuclear physicist,and he said that media had a responsibility,that all sectors of society had a responsibilityto try and progress things and move things forward.And that fascinated me,because I&#39;d been messing around with a camera most of my life.And then I thought, well maybe I could do something.Maybe I could become a filmmaker.Maybe I can use the form of film constructivelyto in some way make a difference.Maybe there&#39;s a little change I can get involved in.So I started thinking about peace,and I was obviously, as I said to you,very much moved by these images,trying to make sense of that.Could I go and speak to older and wiser peoplewho would tell me how they made senseof the things that are going on?Because it&#39;s obviously incredibly frightening.
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:但是，作为一个演员，跟着摄影组四处闲混，我明白一系列简短的采访本身根本不够，而是需要一座山来供攀登，需要一段我必须踏上的旅程。如果我踏上了那段旅程，不管它是失败还是成功，都完全无所谓了。关键是我可以有资本提出这个问题——人们本质上是邪恶的么？世界的毁灭是不可避免的？我应该有孩子么？那是一个关乎责任的事情么？等等。
en:But I realized that,having been messing around with structure as an actor,that a series of sound bites in itself wasn&#39;t enough,that there needed to be a mountain to climb,there needed to be a journey that I had to take.And if I took that journey,no matter whether it failed or succeeded, it would be completely irrelevant.The point was that I would have somethingto hook the questions of — is humankind fundamentally evil?Is the destruction of the world inevitable? Should I have children?Is that a responsible thing to do? Etc., etc.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:所以我思考和平的问题，然后我想，和平的起点在哪里呢？就在那时我有了这个想法，和平没有起点。没有全球团结的一天。没有跨文化合作的一天。没有一天人类可以聚到一起，远离饥饿、破坏等所有的那些事情，仅仅分享这一天，我们在一起的这一天，如果我们团结起来，并且不同文化合作起来，或许就是人类生存的钥匙。或许这能改变人类面对基本问题时产生觉悟的层次只需我们这样做一天。
en:So I was thinking about peace,and then I was thinking, well where&#39;s the starting point for peace?And that was when I had the idea.There was no starting point for peace.There was no day of global unity.There was no day of intercultural cooperation.There was no day when humanity came together,separate in all of those thingsand just shared it together —that we&#39;re in this together,and that if we united and we interculturally cooperated,then that might be the key to humanity&#39;s survival.That might shift the level of consciousnessaround the fundamental issues that humanity faces —if we did it just for a day.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:很明显我们没有钱，我住在我妈妈家里，我们开始给每个人写信，你很快就能想出你需要做的事情并将它搞明白。你如何创造一个由世界各国首脑投票选出的一天？创造出史上第一个无战火、无暴力的一天，9月21日？我把这一天定在9月21日，是因为这是我爷爷最喜欢的数字。他曾是战争的俘虏，他看到原子弹在长崎爆炸。毒气污染了他的血液。他在我11岁的时候去世了。他就像我的英雄。至于说为什么选21这个数字，当时他们700个人去参加战争，23个回来了，两个死在了船上，21个着陆了。这就是为什么我们想把9月21日做为这一天。
en:So obviously we didn&#39;t have any money.I was living at my mom&#39;s place.And we started writing letters to everybody.You very quickly work out what is it that you&#39;ve got to doto fathom that out.How do you create a day voted by every single head of state in the worldto create the first ever Ceasefire Nonviolence Day,the 21st of September?And I wanted it to be the 21st of Septemberbecause it was my granddad&#39;s favorite number.He was a prisoner of war.He saw the bomb go off at Nagasaki.It poisoned his blood. He died when I was 11.So he was like my hero.And the reason why 21 was the number is700 men left, 23 came back,two died on the boat and 21 hit the ground.And that&#39;s why we wanted it to be the 21st of September as the date of peace.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:于是我们开始这个旅程，我们在1999年发起这个活动，写信给各国首脑、大使们、诺贝尔和平奖获得者、非政府组织、宗教机构、各种各样的机构——几乎给所有人都写过了。很快，一些信件得到了回复。于是我们开始建立这个项目。我记得第一封信。第一批信中有一封是来自达赖喇嘛。当然我们没有钱，我们弹吉他来赚钱以买到寄出这些信件需要的邮票钱。达赖喇嘛的回信说道，“这是一个有趣的事情，来见我。我想跟你聊聊有史以来的第一个和平的一天。”但是我们没有钱买机票。于是我给鲍勃·艾林爵士打电话，他那时是英国航空公司的总经理，我跟他说，“朋友，我们收到这个邀请，你能给我们提供机票么？因为我们要去见他。”当然，后来我们见到了达赖喇嘛，的确很有趣。然后奥斯卡·阿里亚斯主动跟我们联系。
en:So we began this journey,and we launched it in 1999.And we wrote to heads of state, their ambassadors,Nobel Peace laureates, NGOs, faiths,various organizations — literally wrote to everybody.And very quickly, some letters started coming back.And we started to build this case.And I remember the first letter.One of the first letters was from the Dalai Lama.And of course we didn&#39;t have the money; we were playing guitarsand getting the money for the stamps that we were sending out all of [this mail].A letter came through from the Dalai Lama saying,&quot;This is an amazing thing. Come and see me.I&#39;d love to talk to you about the first ever day of peace.&quot;And we didn&#39;t have money for the flight.And I rang Sir Bob Ayling, who was CEO of BA at the time,and said, &quot;Mate, we&#39;ve got this invitation.Could you give me a flight? Because we&#39;re going to go see him.&quot;And of course, we went and saw him and it was amazing.And then Dr. Oscar Arias came forward.
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:实际上，让我先回到那张幻灯片，当我们在1999年发起这个活动——创造史上第一个无战火、无暴力的一天的时候，我们邀请了成千上万的人。嗯不是成千上万——成百上千的人，许多人——所有的媒体，因为我们将尝试去创造史上第一个世界和平日，一个和平的一天。我们邀请了所有人，但是没有任何媒体到场。只有114个人出现，他们大部分都是我的朋友和家人。这件事情的发起大概就是这样。但是这没有关系，因为我们在记录，这才是关键。对我来说，真正重要的是过程，而不是最后的结果。这就是摄像机的魅力所在。人们通常说笔比剑更有分量。我想摄像机也是。还是说到摄像机很有魅力，并且的确很强大。
en:And actually, let me go back to that slide,because when we launched it in 1999 —this idea to create the first ever day of ceasefire and non-violence —we invited thousands of people.Well not thousands — hundreds of people, lots of people —all the press, because we were going to try and createthe first ever World Peace Day, a peace day.And we invited everybody,and no press showed up.There were 114 people there — they were mostly my friends and family.And that was kind of like the launch of this thing.But it didn&#39;t matter because we were documenting, and that was the thing.For me, it was really about the process.It wasn&#39;t about the end result.And that&#39;s the beautiful thing about the camera.They used to say the pen is mightier than the sword. I think the camera is.And just staying in the moment with it was a beautiful thingand really empowering actually.
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:无论如何，我们开始这个旅程了，这里你可以看到玛丽·鲁滨逊这样的人，我当时去日内瓦看她。我打算去剪剪我的头发，它变得长短不一。因为每次我看到科菲·安南，我都担心他会认为我是一个嬉皮士，所以我把它剪了。那就是我当时在做的事情。（笑声）恩，所以我现在不用担心头发了。说到玛丽·鲁滨逊，她跟我说，“这个想法的时机已经成熟了，它必须被实现。”科菲·安南说，“这将对我的地面部队很有帮助。”那时的非洲统一组织由萨利姆，艾哈迈德·萨利姆领导，他说，“我必须让非洲国家参与进来。”奥斯卡·阿里亚斯博士，诺贝尔和平奖获得者，现在是哥斯达黎加的总统。他说，“我将做我可以做的一切。”所以我去见到了阿拉伯联盟秘书长穆萨，我在阿鲁沙的和平谈判中见到了曼德拉，等等，等等......同时我也一直在创立这个项目，来判断这个想法是否有意义。
en:So anyway, we began the journey.And here you see people like Mary Robinson, I went to see in Geneva.I&#39;m cutting my hair, it&#39;s getting short and long,because every time I saw Kofi Annan,I was so worried that he thought I was a hippie that I cut it,and that was kind of what was going on.(Laughter)Yeah, I&#39;m not worried about it now.So Mary Robinson,she said to me, &quot;Listen, this is an idea whose time has come. This must be created.&quot;Kofi Annan said, &quot;This will be beneficial to my troops on the ground.&quot;The OAU at the time, led by Salim Ahmed Salim,said, &quot;I must get the African countries involved.&quot;Dr. Oscar Arias, Nobel Peace laureate,president now of Costa Rica,said, &quot;I&#39;ll do everything that I can.&quot;So I went and saw Amr Moussa at the League of Arab States.I met Mandela at the Arusha peace talks,and so on and so on and so on —while I was building the caseto prove whether this ideawould make sense.
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:我们一直在听那些人讲各种各样的故事。我们到处记录。过去12年我参观了76个国家。无论我去哪里，我都跟当地的妇女和儿童聊天，我已经采访了了44,000位年轻人，记录了900小时关于他们的想法的视频。我真的非常了解当你和他们谈到这个想法，为他们建立更加和平的世界提供起点，这些年轻人是怎么想的通过他们的诗歌、艺术、文学、他们的音乐、运动，或者无论其他什么。我们听取每个人的观点
en:And then we were listening to the people. We were documenting everywhere.76 countries in the last 12 years, I&#39;ve visited.And I&#39;ve always spoken to women and children wherever I&#39;ve gone.I&#39;ve recorded 44,000 young people.I&#39;ve recorded about 900 hours of their thoughts.I&#39;m really clear about how young people feelwhen you talk to them about this ideaof having a starting point for their actions for a more peaceful worldthrough their poetry, their art, their literature,their music, their sport, whatever it might be.And we were listening to everybody.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:这的确是一个不可思议的事情，与联合国合作与非政府组织合作，建立这个项目。我觉得我在呈现一个项目，代表全球社区来尝试建立这一天。这个项目越强大、越详细我们创造这一天的机会就越多。就是这些，这些实际上就是我最开始在的地方我想无论发生什么，实际上都没关系如果它没有创造出和平的一天也没关系。事实是，如果我尝试过但没有成功，那我就可以做一个声明关于这个全球社区是多么不想团结起来直到我在索马里偶然遇到那个小女孩。这个小孩，在没有消毒的情况下从她的腿上取出一个一英尺半的子弹那个小男孩是一个童子军，他告诉我他已经杀过人了——他大约12岁这些事情使我意识到这并不是一个我可以随时终止的电影事实上，那一刻我想到了一些事情这显然使我开始行动，“我要开始做记录片。如果这是我唯一制作的电影我将继续记录直到这变成现实。“因为我们需要停下来，我们需要去做一些事在我们团结的地方远离所有的政治和宗教作为一个年轻人，这使我困惑。我不知道如何参与到这个过程中来。
en:And it was an incredibly thing, working with the U.N.and working with NGOs and building this case.I felt that I was presenting a caseon behalf of the global communityto try and create this day.And the stronger the case and the more detailed it was,the better chance we had of creating this day.And it was this stuff, this,where I actually was in the beginningkind of thinking no matter what happened, it didn&#39;t actually matter.It didn&#39;t matter if it didn&#39;t create a day of peace.The fact is that, if I tried and it didn&#39;t work,then I could make a statementabout how unwilling the global community is to unite —until, it was in Somalia, picking up that young girl.And this young childwho&#39;d taken about an inch and a half out of her leg with no antiseptic,and that young boy who was a child soldier,who told me he&#39;d killed people — he was about 12 —these things made me realizethat this was not a film that I could just stop.And that actually, at that moment something happened to me,which obviously made me go, &quot;I&#39;m going to document.If this is the only film that I ever make,I&#39;m going to document until this becomes a reality.&quot;Because we&#39;ve got to stop, we&#39;ve got to do somethingwhere we unite —separate from all the politics and religionthat, as a young person, is confusing me.I don&#39;t know how to get involved in that process.
时间： 7:13
zh-cn:之后在9月7日，我被邀请去纽约。哥斯达黎加政府和英国政府向联合国大会提出和其他54个赞助方一起，创造有史以来第一个无战火、无暴力日并将9月21日作为一个固定的日期这个提议被世界上各个国家首脑一致采纳通过。（掌声）是的，但是显然成千上万的人使它成为了现实。谢谢这些人们。那的确是一个激动人心的时刻。我当时站在联合国大会的顶部，向下看到整个过程。正如我说过的，当它开始时，我们在“全球”这个分会场，没有媒体在，这时我在想，“媒体的确应该来听听这个故事”。突然，我们开始让这天变成一项制度。
en:And then on the seventh of September, I was invited to New York.The Costa Rican government and the British governmenthad put forward to the United Nations General Assembly,with 54 co-sponsors,the idea of the first ever Ceasefire Nonviolence Day,the 21st of September, as a fixed calendar date,and it was unanimously adopted by every head of state in the world.(Applause)Yeah, but there were hundreds of individuals, obviously, who made that a reality.And thank you to all of them.That was an incredible moment.I was at the top of the General Assembly just looking down into it and seeing it happen.And as I mentioned, when it started,we were at the Globe, and there was no press.And now I was thinking, &quot;Well, the press it really going to hear this story.&quot;And suddenly, we started to institutionalize this day.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:科菲·安南邀请我在9月11日上午来做一个媒体发布会。当我站在那里的时候是早晨8点我当时在等他下来，而且我知道他就在路上。但是显然他一直没有出现。那个声明也没有做成。世界人民从来没有被告知有一个无战火、无暴力日。这显然是一个悲惨的时刻对于那些成千上万失去生命的人来说这些事情在全世界范围内时时刻刻都在发生，这个声明从来都没有被宣布。我还记得当时想，“这正是为什么事实上我们需要更加努力地工作。我们需要让这一天成为现实。它已经诞生了，但是没有人知道。但是我们还需要继续我们的旅程，我们需要告诉人们，我们需要证明这一天的创造是有效的。”
en:Kofi Annan invited me on the morning of September the 11thto do a press conference.And it was 8:00 AM when I stood there.And I was waiting for him to come down, and I knew that he was on his way.And obviously he never came down. The statement was never made.The world was never told there was a day of global ceasefire and nonviolence.And it was obviously a tragic momentfor the thousands of people who lost their lives,there and then subsequently all over the world.It never happened.And I remember thinking,&quot;This is exactly why, actually,we have to work even harder.And we have to make this day work.It&#39;s been created; nobody knows.But we have to continue this journey,and we have to tell people,and we have to prove it can work.&quot;
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:我心情低落地离开了纽约但实际上充满了力量我有一种被鼓舞的感觉想到有可能这个声明一旦发布，我们或许就不能看到那样的事情了。我记得放映那个电影，并且到愤世嫉俗者中去。我在展示这个电影我还记得在以色列，它被完全破坏被一些看过这个电影的人毁坏这只是一天的和平，并不意味着任何事情。但是这没有用，你不可能阻止阿富汗的战争塔利班是不会听的 ，等等。这只是一种象征。那甚至更糟糕事实上在许多方面比真正发生的事情还糟糕。因为它没有生效。我曾经在索马里，布隆迪，加沙，约旦河西岸，印度，斯里兰卡，刚果做演讲，无论在哪，他们都告诉我，“如果你能创造一扇机会的窗户，我们可以提供帮助，我们可以为孩子们注射疫苗。孩子们可以组织他们自己的项目，他们可以团结起来，聚在一起。如果人们肯停下战争，就会挽救很多生命。“这就是我听到的内容。并且我是从那些真正懂得战争和冲突的意义的人们口中听到。
en:And I left New York freaked,but actually empowered.And I felt inspiredby the possibilitiesthat if it did, then maybe we wouldn&#39;t see things like that.I remember putting that film out and going to cynics.I was showing the film,and I remember being in Israel and getting it absolutely slaughteredby some guys having watched the film —that it&#39;s just a day of peace, it doesn&#39;t mean anything.It&#39;s not going to work; you&#39;re not going to stop the fighting in Afghanistan;the Taliban won&#39;t listen, etc., etc.It&#39;s just symbolism.And that was even worsethan actually what had just happened in many ways,because it couldn&#39;t not work.I&#39;d spoken in Somalia, Burundi, Gaza, the West Bank,India, Sri Lanka, Congo, wherever it was,and they&#39;d all tell me, &quot;If you can create a window of opportunity,we can move aid, we can vaccinate children.Children can lead their projects.They can unite. They can come together. If people would stop, lives will be saved.&quot;That&#39;s what I&#39;d heard.And I&#39;d heard that from the people who really understood what conflict was about.
时间： 9:36
zh-cn:然后我又回到了联合国。我决定继续拍摄并制作另一部电影。然后我又回到联合国待了两年。我们开始在联合国系统的周围活动，以及政府和非政府组织的周围，拼命尝试去找到一些人可以主动参与，并尝试一下让我们看看这是否可能实现。经过不计其数的会议之后，显然我很中意这个人，艾哈迈德·法齐，事实上他是我心中的英雄和导师之一，他成功使联合国儿童基金会参与到我们的活动中来说到联合国儿童基金会，上帝保佑他们，他们说，“好的，我们会参加”。然后联合国阿富汗援助团也在阿富汗参加了这个活动这是历史性的，这能否在阿富汗成功有了联合国阿富汗援助团和世界卫生组织以及民间组织等等的帮助？我将这些都放在电影上，并且正在记录这些我就想，“就是它，这就是它成功的可能性。”但是即使它不成功，至少打开了一扇门，于是就有了机会
en:And so I went back to the United Nations.I decided that I&#39;d continue filming and make another movie.And I went back to the U.N. for another couple of years.We started moving around the corridors of the U.N. system,governments and NGOs,trying desperately to find somebodyto come forward and have a go at it,see if we could make it possible.And after lots and lots of meetings obviously,I&#39;m delighted that this man, Ahmad Fawzi,one of my heroes and mentors really,he managed to get UNICEF involved.And UNICEF, God bless them, they said, &quot;Okay, we&#39;ll have a go.&quot;And then UNAMA became involved in Afghanistan.It was historical. Could it work in Afghanistanwith UNAMA and WHOand civil society, etc., etc., etc.?And I was getting it all on film and I was recording it,and I was thinking, &quot;This is it. This is the possibility of it maybe working.But even if it doesn&#39;t, at least the door is openand there&#39;s a chance.&quot;
时间：10:22
zh-cn:所以我回到了伦敦，去找这个小伙子，裘德洛我去找他因为他是个演员，我也是个演员我跟他有某种联系因为我们需要去找媒体，我们需要他的号召力我们需要媒体参与进来因为如果媒体开始做更多的宣传，就会有更多的人关注然后又会有更多当我们进入特定地区时可能会有更多的人对这个感兴趣而且没准我们会在经济上得到更多的帮助我们的经济已经十分困难我将不会详细说这个然后裘徳说，“好吧，我为你做一些宣传”。
en:And so I went back to London,and I went and saw this chap, Jude Law.And I saw him because he was an actor, I was an actor,I had a connection to him,because we needed to get to the press, we needed this attraction,we needed the media to be involved.Because if we start pumping it up a bit maybe more people would listenand there&#39;d be more —when we got into certain areas,maybe there would be more people interested.And maybe we&#39;d be helped financially a little bit more,which had been desperately difficult.I won&#39;t go into that.So Jude said, &quot;Okay, I&#39;ll do some statements for you.&quot;
时间：10:51
zh-cn:当我在录这些宣传视频时，他对我说，“你下一步要去哪？”我说，“我要去阿富汗”。他说，“真的么？”我可以从他眼中读到一丝兴趣。于是我跟他说，“你想跟我一起去么？”如果你要去的话一定很有意思。这将会很有帮助，并且引起关注。这种关注会影响局势，还有所有其他方面。我认为有很多方法可以成功，一个是你有一个伟大的想法。另一个是你有一批拥护者，你有一些经济支持，你还可以提高大家的意识事实上凭我自己绝对不能提高大众意识，不管我做成了什么。所以像裘德洛这些人绝对是非常关键的。然后他同意了。于是我们到了阿富汗。
en:While I was filming these statements, he said to me, &quot;Where are you going next?&quot;I said, &quot;I&#39;m going to go to Afghanistan.&quot; He said, &quot;Really?&quot;And I could sort of see a little look in his eye of interest.So I said to him, &quot;Do you want to come with me?It&#39;d be really interesting if you came.It would help and bring attention.And that attentionwould help leverage the situation,as well as all of the other sides of it.&quot;I think there&#39;s a number of pillars to success.One is you&#39;ve got to have a great idea.The other is you&#39;ve got to have a constituency, you&#39;ve got to have finance,and you&#39;ve got to be able to raise awareness.And actually I could never raise awareness by myself, no matter what I&#39;d achieved.So these guys were absolutely crucial.So he said yes,and we found ourselves in Afghanistan.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:当我们到达那里的时候，的确很有趣，我跟不同的人说话，他们对我说，“你需要把这里的每个人都召集进来。你不能只想着让它自己生效，你必须走出去工作使之生效。然后我们开始这样做，我们到处环游，向老人演讲，向医生演讲，向护士演讲，我们召开新闻发布会，跟战士一起出去和驻阿富汗“国际安全援助部队”谈话，和北约谈话，和英国政府谈话我的意思是说，我们基本上和所有人都谈过了和教育部长们在学校进进出出并召开媒体发布会当然，现在有媒体在场了，几乎每个人都在。大家对这个活动有了兴趣这个不可思议的女人，法蒂玛·马格拉尼，对事情的进展有很大的帮助因为她是对抗俄罗斯的发言人。她的阿富汗网络几乎遍及各处。而且她对于收集信息也很关键。
en:It was a really incredible thing that when we landed there,I was talking to various people, and they were saying to me,&quot;You&#39;ve got to get everybody involved here.You can&#39;t just expect it to work. You have to get out and work.&quot;And we did, and we traveled around,and we spoke to elders, we spoke to doctors, we spoke to nurses,we held press conferences, we went out with soldiers,we sat down with ISAF, we sat down with NATO,we sat down with the U.K. government.I mean, we basically sat down with everybody —in and out of schools with ministers of education,holding these press conferences,which of course, now were loaded with press, everybody was there.There was an interest in what was going on.This amazing woman, Fatima Gailani, was absolutely instrumental in what went onas she was the spokesperson for the resistance against the Russians.And her Afghan networkwas just absolutely everywhere.And she was really crucial in getting the message in.
时间：12:18
zh-cn:然后我们就回家了，我们差不多做完这件事了。现在我们需要等待，然后看看会发生什么。于是我回家了，我还记得队里有个人给我带了一封信，从塔利班。那封信的大概内容是，“我们将遵守这天，我们将遵守这天。我们把这个视为机会之门，我们不会参与。我们不会去参与。这意味着人道主义工作人员将不会被绑架或者杀戮。然后突然，我明显感到这个时机，是一个机会。几天之后，160万儿童接种了小儿麻痹疫苗作为人人停止战争的结果。（掌声）就像联合国大会，显然这是最棒、最好的时刻。
en:And then we went home. We&#39;d sort of done it.We had to wait now and see what happened.And I got home,and I remember one of the team bringing in a letter to mefrom the Taliban.And that letter basically said, &quot;We&#39;ll observe this day.We will observe this day.We see it as a window of opportunity.And we will not engage. We&#39;re not going to engage.&quot;And that meant that humanitarian workerswouldn&#39;t be kidnapped or killed.And then suddenly, I obviously knew at this point, there was a chance.And days later,1.6 million children were vaccinated against polioas a consequence of everybody stopping.(Applause)And like the General Assembly,obviously the most wonderful, wonderful moment.
时间：13:09
zh-cn:然后我们收好胶卷然后把它们放在一起，因为我们需要回去，我们把它翻译成达里语和普什图语。我们把它翻译成当地方言。我们回到了阿富汗应为明年要来了，我们想提供支持，但是更重要的是，我们想回去，因为阿富汗的这些人是英雄他们是那些相信和平的人，并且相信这一天诞生的可能——而且他们将之变成现实。我们想回去，把这个电影放给他们看，然后说，“看，你们把这一天变成现实，非常感谢。”我们放映了这个电影，显然它很棒，
en:And so then we wrapped the film up and we put it togetherbecause we had to go back.We put it into Dari and Pashto. We put it in the local dialects.We went back to Afghanistan,because the next year was coming, and we wanted to support.But more importantly, we wanted to go back,because these people in Afghanistan were the heroes.They were the people who believed in peaceand the possibilities of it, etc., etc. — and they made it real.And we wanted to go back and show them the filmand say, &quot;Look, you guys made this possible. And thank you very much.&quot;And we gave the film over.Obviously it was shown, and it was amazing.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:然后那年，2008年，9月17日我们收到了来自来自阿富汗喀布尔驻阿富汗“国际安全援助部队”的声明：“斯坦利·麦克里斯特尔将军，驻阿富汗国际安全援助部队最高指挥官，今天宣布国际安全援助部队将不会实行任何侵略性的军事行动在9月21日。”他们说他们将会停止。然后又有这一份声明，来自国家安全局，声明说，在阿富汗，因为这些努力，暴力事件减少了70%。至少在这天暴力事件减少了70%。这个完全让我震撼，比任何事都更甚。
en:And then that year, that year, 2008,this ISAF statement from Kabul, Afghanistan, September 17th:&quot;General Stanley McChrystal,commander of international security assistance forces in Afghanistan,announced today ISAF will not conduct offensive military operationson the 21st of September.&quot;They were saying they would stop.And then there was this other statementthat came out from the U.N. Department of Security and Safetysaying that, in Afghanistan,because of this work,the violence was down by 70 percent.70 percent reduction in violence on this day at least.And that completely blew my mindalmost more than anything.
时间：14:15
zh-cn:我还记得上次滞留在纽约的时候，不过这次是因为火山，显然这次更加无足轻重。我当时在想事情会如何进展，我一直在想70%这个数字，暴力事件减少70%发生在每个人都说完全不可能的事情上，你无法相信，这使我想到，如果我们在阿富汗减少了70%的暴力事件，那么我们毫无疑问可以在任何地方都达到这个数字。我们需要努力达到全球的休战，我们需要利用这无战火、无暴力的一天，然后争取达到全球停战，争取有史以来规模最大的停战记录，不仅在国内，而且在国际上，有记录以来。
en:And I remember being stuck in New York, this time because of the volcano,which was obviously much less harmful.And I was there thinking about what was going on.And I kept thinking about this 70 percent.70 percent reduction in violence —in what everyone said was completely impossibleand you couldn&#39;t do.And that made me think that, if we can get 70 percent in Afghanistan,then surely we can get 70 percent reduction everywhere.We have to go for a global truce.We have to utilize this day of ceasefire and nonviolenceand go for a global truce,go for the largest recorded cessation of hostilities,both domestically and internationally, ever recorded.
时间：14:50
zh-cn:这正是我们必须要做的事情。今年的9月21日，我们将在千禧大棚子举办这个活动，来争取这个过程试着创造有史以来最大的停战记录。我们将用各种途径，舞会，社会媒体，以及facebook和我们的网站，签署请愿书，用联合国的六种官方语言来进行。我们在国际上将与各个政府、政府间组织、以及非政府组织、教育组织、联盟、体育组织合作，并且你在那可以看到教育专席，现在我们得到了174个国家的资源努力让年轻人成为驱动力来推动全球停战的事业。显然拯救生命的行动增加了，这些概念生效了。
en:That&#39;s exactly what we must do.And on the 21st of September this year,we&#39;re going to launch that campaign at the O2 Arenato go for that process,to try and create the largest recorded cessation of hostilities.And we will utilize all kinds of things —have a dance and social mediaand visiting on Facebook and visit the website, sign the petition.And it&#39;s in the six official languages of the United Nations.And we&#39;ll globally link with government, inter-government,non-government, education, unions, sports.And you can see the education box there.We&#39;ve got resources at the moment in 174 countriestrying to get young people to be the driving forcebehind the vision of that global truce.And obviously the life-saving is increased, the concepts help.
时间：15:28
zh-cn:与奥林匹克合作，我去见了勒布·安科，我说：“伦敦2012奥运会应该与停战有关。这是它最终的目标。为什么我们不联合起来呢？为什么我们不把停战带到生活中来呢？为什么不支持有史以来最大的全球停战计划呢？我们将为这个过程制作一个新的电影。我们将利用运动和足球。在那个和平的一天中，会有成千上万的足球比赛同时进行，从巴西的贫民区到其他任何地方。利用这些方式来鼓励个人行动，最终，我们需要尝试这个，我们需要一起努力，
en:Linking up with the Olympics —I went and saw Seb Coe. I said, &quot;London 2012 is about truce.Ultimately, that&#39;s what it&#39;s about.&quot;Why don&#39;t we all team up? Why don&#39;t we bring truce to life?Why don&#39;t you support the process of the largest ever global truce?We&#39;ll make a new film about this process.We&#39;ll utilize sport and football.On the Day of Peace, there&#39;s thousands of football matches all played,from the favelas of Brazil to wherever it might be.So, utilizing all of these waysto inspire individual action.And ultimately, we have to try that.We have to work together.
时间：15:57
zh-cn:当我现在站在你们所有人，以及正在看这些事情发生的人面前，我非常高兴，代表我见到过的每个人，来告诉你们世界团结是有可能的，我们可以像一家人一起聚在一起，我们可以在人类的基本问题上提高意识，这些问题是由我们每个人带来的。我曾经见过卜拉希米，卜拉希米大使，我认为他是与国际政治有关的，很棒的人之一 ——在阿富汗，在伊拉克他是一个很棒的人，几周前我跟他坐了一阵，我跟他说，“卜拉希米先生，这个争取全球停战的想法疯狂么？有可能么？我们真的可能做到么？”他说，“这绝对是可能的。”我说，“您打算做什么？您会去政府和议会谈，然后实行这个制度么？”他说，“不，我会跟每个人去谈。”这是关于每个人的，这是关于你和我的。这是关于合作，这是关于你的选举权，关于你自己的事。因为只有一起，我们一起努力，我真的认为我们可以开始做出改变。
en:And when I stand here in front of all of you,and the people who will watch these things,I&#39;m excited, on behalf of everybody I&#39;ve met,that there is a possibility that our world could unite,that we could come together as one,that we could lift the level of consciousness around the fundamental issues,brought about by individuals.I was with Brahimi, Ambassador Brahimi.I think he&#39;s one of the most incredible menin relation to international politics — in Afghanistan, in Iraq.He&#39;s an amazing man.And I sat with him a few weeks ago.And I said to him, &quot;Mr. Brahimi, is this nuts, going for a global truce?Is this possible? Is it really possible that we could do this?&quot;He said, &quot;It&#39;s absolutely possible.&quot;I said, &quot;What would you do?Would you go to governments and lobby and use the system?&quot;He said, &quot;No, I&#39;d talk to the individuals.&quot;It&#39;s all about the individuals.It&#39;s all about you and me.It&#39;s all about partnerships.It&#39;s about your constituencies; it&#39;s about your businesses.Because together, by working together,I seriously think we can start to change things.
时间：16:50
zh-cn:有一个伟大的人坐在观众席，我不知道他在哪里。几天之前他跟我说了一些东西——因为我做了一点排练——他说，“我在想这天，并把它想象成一个正方形，有365个正方形。其中一个是白色的。”这使我想到了一杯水，很干净的水。如果你滴入一滴别的东西，把这杯水中滴入一滴其他任何东西它将永远改变。
en:And there&#39;s a wonderful man sitting in this audience, and I don&#39;t know where he is,who said to me a few days ago — because I did a little rehearsal —and he said, &quot;I&#39;ve been thinking about this dayand imagining it as a squarewith 365 squares,and one of them is white.&quot;And it then made me think about a glass of water, which is clear.If you put one drop,one drop of something, in that water,it&#39;ll change it forever.
时间：17:15
zh-cn:通过一起努力，将来某天我们一定可以创造出和平。谢谢TED。谢谢大家。
en:By working together, we can create peace one day.Thank you TED. Thank you.
时间：17:19
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:22
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:24
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:28
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thanks a lot.
时间：17:30
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:32
zh-cn:非常感谢。谢谢。
en:Thank you very much. Thank you.
