时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我认为培育十分耐旱的农作物某种程度上可以保障世界粮食安全而其中的秘诀在于这张拍摄于一个非常干旱的州的图片中的复苏植物。你也许认为这些植物看起来已经死了但其实它们没死。如果给它们水它们将会在12-48小时后复活，变绿，开始生长。
en:I believe that the secret to producingextremely drought-tolerant crops,which should go some wayto providing food security in the world,lies in resurrection plants,pictured here, in an extremelydroughted state.You might thinkthat these plants look dead,but they&#39;re not.Give them water,and they will resurrect, green up,start growing, in 12 to 48 hours.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:现在，为什么我提议培育耐旱的农作物可以保障粮食安全呢？当今世界人口大约为70亿预计到2050年，人口将增长至90-100亿，这其中大部分的人口增长在非洲。
en:Now, why would I suggestthat producing drought-tolerant cropswill go towards providing food security?Well, the current world populationis around 7 billion.And it&#39;s estimated that by 2050,we&#39;ll be between 9 and 10 billion people,with the bulk of this growthhappening in Africa.
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:世界粮农组织建议我们在现有基础上需要将农业产量提高70%来满足那时的需求。因为植物是食物链的基础，所以增加的产量大部分需要来自植物。
en:The food and agriculturalorganizations of the worldhave suggested that we needa 70 percent increasein current agricultural practiceto meet that demand.Given that plantsare at the base of the food chain,most of that&#39;s goingto have to come from plants.
时间： 1:12
zh-cn:但是70%的增量并没有考虑气候变化所带来的潜在影响。
en:That percentage of 70 percentdoes not take into considerationthe potential effects of climate change.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:这是戴在2011年发表的研究报告，里面他考虑了气候变化带来的所有可能的影响然后把它们展现出来其中就有由降水缺乏或频率低所导致的干旱区域增加。展示在这里的红色区域是到目前为止农业非常发达但因为缺少降水将来不能耕种的地区。这是预计将在2050年发生的状况。非洲的大部分地区实际上，全球的大部分地区将会陷入困境。我们将不得不想出一些非常巧妙的方法来生产食物。在其中比较合适的方法是培育一些耐旱的作物
en:This is taken from a study by Daipublished in 2011,where he took into considerationall the potential effectsof climate changeand expressed them —amongst other things —increased aridity due to lack of rainor infrequent rain.The areas in red shown here,are areas that until recentlyhave been very successfullyused for agriculture,but cannot anymorebecause of lack of rainfall.This is the situationthat&#39;s predicted to happen in 2050.Much of Africa,in fact, much of the world,is going to be in trouble.We&#39;re going to have to think of somevery smart ways of producing food.And preferably among them,some drought-tolerant crops.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:关于非洲，我们需要记住的另一件事是他们的大部分农业主要靠雨水灌溉。
en:The other thingto remember about Africa isthat most of their agriculture is rainfed.
时间： 2:07
zh-cn:现在，培育抗旱作物并非易事。其中的原因在于水。在这个星球上，水是对于生命是必不可少的。所有活着的、代谢旺盛的有机体，从微生物到你我，主要由水构成。所有维持生命所需的反应发生在水中。即使丧失少量的水也会导致死亡。人体65%由水构成如果我们其中丧失1%的水，我们就会死。但是我们可以通过行为的改变来避免那种情况发生。植物却不能。它们生长在地上。所以首先他们比我们含水量更多大概95%是水分它们也可以比我们多失去一些水不同物种可以短时间内损失10%到70%的水分。
en:Now, making drought-tolerant cropsis not the easiest thing in the world.And the reason for this is water.Water is essential to life on this planet.All living, activelymetabolizing organisms,from microbes to you and I,are comprised predominately of water.All life reactions happen in water.And loss of a small amountof water results in death.You and I are 65 percent water —we lose one percent of that, we die.But we can make behavioralchanges to avoid that.Plants can&#39;t.They&#39;re stuck in the ground.And so in the first instance they havea little bit more water than us,about 95 percent water,and they can losea little bit more than us,like 10 to about 70 percent,depending on the species,but for short periods only.
时间： 2:55
zh-cn:大多数物种都会抵制或尽量避免失水。举一个抗失水者的极端例子：肉质植物它们一般很小很漂亮但是它们为了保持水分不得不生长的十分缓慢。避免失水的主要例子都是乔灌木它们的根须深入地下直至地下水资源不停地吸取大量的地下水来保持水分。
en:Most of them will either tryto resist or avoid water loss.So extreme examples of resistorscan be found in succulents.They tend to be small, very attractive,but they hold onto their waterat such great costthat they grow extremely slowly.Examples of avoidance of water lossare found in trees and shrubs.They send down very deep roots,mine subterranean water suppliesand just keep flushingit through them at all times,keeping themselves hydrated.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:右边的植物叫做猴面包树。它也被人成为倒置的树因为根部与地上部分的比例实在是太夸张以至于这棵树像是倒置的一样。当然了为了保持水分这样的根部是必须的。
en:The one on the right is called a baobab.It&#39;s also called the upside-down tree,simply because the proportionof roots to shoots is so greatthat it looks like the treehas been planted upside down.And of course the roots are requiredfor hydration of that plant.
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:也许一年生植物是最常使用避免失水策略的植物了一年生植物在我的国家的西海岸是我们主要种植的食物来源一年中的绝大部分时间我们看不到这些蔬菜的生长但当春天雨季来临，你可以看到沙漠之中花开遍地。
en:And probably the most common strategyof avoidance is found in annuals.Annuals make up the bulkof our plant food supplies.Up the west coast of my country,for much of the yearyou don&#39;t see much vegetation growth.But come the spring rains, you get this:flowering of the desert.
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:一年生植物的策略就是只在雨季生长。在雨季结束的时候它们产生种子种子很干燥，只含有8%到10%的水但却生机勃勃。这样在干燥环境下仍保持活性的性质叫做干燥耐受。
en:The strategy in annuals,is to grow only in the rainy season.At the end of that seasonthey produce a seed,which is dry, eight to 10 percent water,but very much alive.And anything that isthat dry and still alive,we call desiccation-tolerant.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:在干燥的国家种子在如此极端环境下可以存活很长的一段时间。下次雨季来临时它们马上发芽生长如此循环往复。
en:In the desiccated state,what seeds can dois lie in extremes of environmentfor prolonged periods of time.The next time the rainy season comes,they germinate and grow,and the whole cycle just starts again.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:普遍认为正是进化出这样干燥耐受的种子才让开花植物和被子植物在陆地上的定植和传播成为可能。
en:It&#39;s widely believed that the evolutionof desiccation-tolerant seedsallowed the colonization and the radiationof flowering plants,or angiosperms, onto land.
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:作为主要食物来源的一年生植物比如构成我们食物来源95%的小麦，水稻和玉米看起来也是一个很好的策略因为短时间内就可以生产大量的种子种子富含可以被人体吸收的能量所以你可以在食物充足的时候为饥荒做准备。但是也有不足之处。这些植物的营养组织根部和叶片并没有什么抵抗干燥，避免干燥或者耐受干燥的特性因为它们根本不需要。它们本来就生长在雨季而且已经生产了可以度过余下时间的种子
en:But back to annualsas our major form of food supplies.Wheat, rice and maize form 95 percentof our plant food supplies.And it&#39;s been a great strategybecause in a short space of timeyou can produce a lot of seed.Seeds are energy-richso there&#39;s a lot of food calories,you can store it in times of plentyfor times of famine,but there&#39;s a downside.The vegetative tissues,the roots and leaves of annuals,do not have muchby way of inherent resistance,avoidance or tolerance characteristics.They just don&#39;t need them.They grow in the rainy seasonand they&#39;ve got a seedto help them survive the rest of the year.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:而且无论农业专家如何努力提升农作物的抵抗、避免和耐受干旱的能力尤其是抵抗和避免干旱的能力尽管我们已经有了很好的模型来了解植物的运作模式我们仍然只得到了这样的结果。非洲的玉米作物经历两周不下雨之后就死了。
en:And so despite concertedefforts in agricultureto make crops with improved propertiesof resistance, avoidance and tolerance —particularly resistance and avoidancebecause we&#39;ve had good modelsto understand how those work —we still get images like this.Maize crop in Africa,two weeks without rainand it&#39;s dead.
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:现在有一个方案就是复苏植物。这些植物可以失去95%的细胞水分进入干燥的假死状态长达数月之久只要给它们水它们马上就可以变绿开始生长。像种子一样它们拥有干燥耐受性可以忍受极端的环境。这是非常罕见的现象。全世界只有135种开花植物可以做到。
en:There is a solution:resurrection plants.These plants can lose 95 percentof their cellular water,remain in a dry, dead-like statefor months to years,and give them water,they green up and start growing again.Like seeds, these aredesiccation-tolerant.Like seeds, these can withstand extremesof environmental conditions.And this is a really rare phenomenon.There are only 135 floweringplant species that can do this.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:我将给各位放一段三种复苏植物复苏过程的视频。在视频下方有一个时间轴各位可以看到一切发生得多么迅速。
en:I&#39;m going to show you a videoof the resurrection processof these three speciesin that order.And at the bottom,there&#39;s a time axisso you can see how quickly it happens.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:很神奇 是吧？
en:Pretty amazing, huh?
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:所以我用了21年时间研究它们是如何做到的这些植物如何做到干而不死？因为很多原因我研究了图中不同的复苏植物在干燥和有水环境下的状态
en:So I&#39;ve spent the last 21 yearstrying to understand how they do this.How do these plants dry without dying?And I work on a varietyof different resurrection plants,shown here in the hydrated and dry states,for a number of reasons.
时间： 7:16
zh-cn:其中一个原因是每一种复苏植物都可以作为一种农作物的耐旱版本的模板
en:One of them is that eachof these plants serves as a modelfor a crop that I&#39;d liketo make drought-tolerant.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:比如左上角这种草叫做画眉虫草它是苔麸的近亲也就是很多人熟知的埃塞俄比亚画眉草那是埃塞俄比亚的主要作物它不含谷蛋白我们想开发耐旱版本的埃塞俄比亚画眉草。
en:So on the extreme top left,for example, is a grass,it&#39;s called Eragrostis nindensis,it&#39;s got a close relativecalled Eragrostis tef —a lot of you might know it as &quot;teff&quot; —it&#39;s a staple food in Ethiopia,it&#39;s gluten-free,and it&#39;s something we would liketo make drought-tolerant.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:另一个我们研究其它各种各样的植物的原因是，至少我们希望从本质上了解它们在做同样的事情么？它们可以做到失水而不死的内在机制是相同的么？
en:The other reason for lookingat a number of plants,is that, at least initially,I wanted to find out:do they do the same thing?Do they all use the same mechanismsto be able to loseall that water and not die?
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:所以我采用系统生物学方法希望对植物的耐旱性有一个全面的了解系统生物学方法就是从分子层面到整体植株生理生态层面的整体研究
en:So I undertook what we calla systems biology approachin order to geta comprehensive understandingof desiccation tolerance,in which we look at everythingfrom the molecular to the whole plant,ecophysiological level.
时间： 7:59
zh-cn:比如我们通过解剖观察干枯的植物的变化和它们的亚显微结构我们观察转录组如何应对干旱转录组是一个技术术语意思是我们观察基因开关在应对干旱时是开启还是关闭。大部分基因会制造蛋白质所以我们研究蛋白质组。干旱来临时植物会制造什么蛋白质？一些蛋白质会制造让植物新陈代谢的酶所以我们研究代谢组。
en:For example we look at things likechanges in the plant anatomyas they dried outand their ultrastructure.We look at the transcriptome,which is just a term for a technologyin which we look at the genesthat are switched on or off,in response to drying.Most genes will code for proteins,so we look at the proteome.What are the proteins madein response to drying?Some proteins would code for enzymeswhich make metabolites,so we look at the metabolome.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:这很重要 因为植物都是固定在土地之上的它们利用所谓的高度协调的化工厂保护它们不受外界环境的压力。所以研究这些因为干燥引起的化学变化也非常重要。
en:Now, this is importantbecause plants are stuck in the ground.They use what I calla highly tuned chemical arsenalto protect themselves from allthe stresses of their environment.So it&#39;s important that we lookat the chemical changesinvolved in drying.
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:最后我们在分子层面的研究中我们研究了脂质体脂质是如何变化的以应对干旱的。这也很重要因为所有的生物膜都是脂质的。因为在水中所以它们保持膜状脱离水后这些膜就会破碎。脂质同样是开启基因的信号
en:And at the last studythat we do at the molecular level,we look at the lipidome —the lipid changes in response to drying.And that&#39;s also importantbecause all biological membranesare made of lipids.They&#39;re held as membranesbecause they&#39;re in water.Take away the water,those membranes fall apart.Lipids also act as signalsto turn on genes.
时间： 8:59
zh-cn:我们运用生理和生化研究方法去试验和了解我们已经在其他研究中发现的假定保护机制。通过这些所有的研究来尝试理解植物如何适应它周围的自然环境。
en:Then we use physiologicaland biochemical studiesto try and understandthe function of the putative protectantsthat we&#39;ve actually discoveredin our other studies.And then use all of thatto try and understandhow the plant copeswith its natural environment.
时间： 9:14
zh-cn:我的科学哲学是我需要对耐旱性的机制有全面的理解才可以给出对于生物应用的有意义的建议。
en:I&#39;ve always had the philosophy thatI needed a comprehensive understandingof the mechanisms of desiccation tolerancein order to make a meaningful suggestionfor a biotic application.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:我确信有一些人在想“她所说的生物应用是不是意味着转基因作物呢？”这个问题的答案是：取决于如何定义转基因。
en:I&#39;m sure some of you are thinking,&quot;By biotic application,does she mean she&#39;s going to makegenetically modified crops?&quot;And the answer to that question is:depends on your definitionof genetic modification.
时间： 9:38
zh-cn:所有我们今天食用的作物小麦，水稻和玉米与祖先植株相比都是高度转基因的，我们不认为它们是转基因作物是因为它们一直是用传统方式培育的。如果你问我是不是打算把复苏植物的基因植入作物中我的回答是是的。
en:All of the crops that we eat today,wheat, rice and maize,are highly genetically modifiedfrom their ancestors,but we don&#39;t consider them GMbecause they&#39;re being producedby conventional breeding.If you mean, am I going to putresurrection plant genes into crops,your answer is yes.
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:时间紧迫我们已经尝试了这些手段准确地说我的一些在UCT的同事珍妮弗·汤姆森，萨尔·拉夫德恩已经先行进行了实验一会我将展示部分资料。
en:In the essence of time,we have tried that approach.More appropriately,some of my collaborators at UCT,Jennifer Thomson, Suhail Rafudeen,have spearheaded that approachand I&#39;m going to show you some data soon.
时间：10:08
zh-cn:但是我们将要开展的是一项极具野心的工作我们的目标是启动已经存在于每棵植株中的整套基因它们只是还没有在极端干旱的环境下被激活我希望各位可以自行判断这种方式是否属于转基因。
en:But we&#39;re about to embarkupon an extremely ambitious approach,in which we aim to turn onwhole suites of genesthat are already present in every crop.They&#39;re just never turned onunder extreme drought conditions.I leave it up to you to decidewhether those should be called GM or not.
时间：10:26
zh-cn:我将展示第一阶段实验的部分资料在展示之前我需要解释一下基因工作的原理。
en:I&#39;m going to now just give yousome of the data from that first approach.And in order to do thatI have to explain a little bitabout how genes work.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:也许大家都知道基因是DNA的双链结构。它通过紧密的缠绕形成染色体存在于每个人体或者植物的细胞之中如果把DNA解缠你就会得到基因每一个基因有一个启动子即是一个开关基因转录区和终止子这意味着这一部分基因转录结束下一个基因将要开始转录
en:So you probably all knowthat genes are madeof double-stranded DNA.It&#39;s wound very tightly into chromosomesthat are present in every cellof your body or in a plant&#39;s body.If you unwind that DNA, you get genes.And each gene has a promoter,which is just an on-off switch,the gene coding region,and then a terminator,which indicates that this is the endof this gene, the next gene will start.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:启动子不是简单的开关它们往往需要大量微调在基因开关打开之前要进行很多的瞄准和修正过程所以基本上我们生物技术研究中使用诱导型启动子来研究如何打开启动子开关我们把它植入我们感兴趣的基因然后把基因植入植株研究植株的反应。
en:Now, promoters are notsimple on-off switches.They normally requirea lot of fine-tuning,lots of things to be present and correctbefore that gene is switched on.So what&#39;s typically donein biotech studiesis that we use an inducible promoter,we know how to switch it on.We couple that to genes of interestand put that into a plantand see how the plant responds.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:在我接下来展示的研究中我的同事使用了在复苏植物中发现的干旱诱导蛋白启动子。这个启动子的优势在于不用外界手段植物会自发感受干旱我们使用启动子驱动复苏植物的抗氧化剂基因为什么是抗氧化剂基因？所有的压力 尤其是干旱的压力都会形成自由基也就是活性氧。活性氧极具破坏力会直接导致植物死亡。抗氧化剂可以阻止这种破坏。
en:In the study that I&#39;m goingto talk to you about,my collaborators useda drought-induced promoter,which we discoveredin a resurrection plant.The nice thing about this promoteris that we do nothing.The plant itself senses drought.And we&#39;ve used it to drive antioxidantgenes from resurrection plants.Why antioxidant genes?Well, all stresses,particularly drought stress,results in the formation of free radicals,or reactive oxygen species,which are highly damagingand can cause crop death.What antioxidants do is stop that damage.
时间：11:56
zh-cn:这是非洲常用的玉米品种箭头左边的是没有这种基因的右边的是含有抗氧化基因的植株。三周没有浇水之后有抗氧化基因的植株的状态要好得多。
en:So here&#39;s some data from a maize strainthat&#39;s very popularly used in Africa.To the left of the arroware plants without the genes,to the right —plants with the antioxidant genes.After three weeks without watering,the ones with the genesdo a hell of a lot better.
时间：12:12
zh-cn:在实验的最后因为我的研究已经说明种子和复苏植物的耐旱性的机制有很多相似之处我的问题是他们是同一种基因么？还是略有不同地被修饰过？复苏植物是在根部和叶部上也含有这种耐旱基因么？在复苏植物中这些基因又被根部和叶部重新使用了么？
en:Now to the final approach.My research has shownthat there&#39;s considerable similarityin the mechanisms of desiccation tolerancein seeds and resurrection plants.So I ask the question,are they using the same genes?Or slightly differently phrased,are resurrection plants using genesevolved in seed desiccation tolerancein their roots and leaves?Have they retasked these seed genesin roots and leavesof resurrection plants?
时间：12:38
zh-cn:我可以回答这个问题通过我和我的同事的小组的工作通过来自荷兰的亨克·希尔霍斯特来自美国的梅尔·奥利弗和来自法国的朱莉娅布克的一系列工作我们认为答案是：是的。它们都有一套完整的核心基因
en:And I answer that question,as a consequence of a lotof research from my groupand recent collaborations from a groupof Henk Hilhorst in the Netherlands,Mel Oliver in the United Statesand Julia Buitink in France.The answer is yes,that there is a core set of genesthat are involved in both.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:我会大概以玉米为例解释一下在开关下面的染色体里面有耐旱性必要的全部基因当玉米种子在它们发育的最后一个阶段面临干燥环境时开关就会打开。复苏植物遇到干旱环境是也会打开同样的开关。因此所有现代的植物都在它们的根部和叶部拥有这些基因只不过它们从来没有打开过开关。它们只在作为种子时打开过开关。
en:And I&#39;m going to illustrate thisvery crudely for maize,where the chromosomes below the off switchrepresent all the genes that are requiredfor desiccation tolerance.So as maize seeds dried outat the end of their period of development,they switch these genes on.Resurrection plantsswitch on the same geneswhen they dry out.All modern crops, therefore,have these genesin their roots and leaves,they just never switch them on.They only switch them on in seed tissues.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:我们现在尝试要做的就是了解打开复苏植物基因开关的环境信号和细胞信号并在作物中模仿类似的过程。
en:So what we&#39;re trying to do right nowis to understand the environmentaland cellular signalsthat switch on these genesin resurrection plants,to mimic the process in crops.
时间：13:34
zh-cn:最后我想说我们只是在用飞快的速度重复复苏植物在过去100万年到400万年的大自然中进行的进化。
en:And just a final thought.What we&#39;re trying to do very rapidlyis to repeat what nature didin the evolution of resurrection plantssome 10 to 40 million years ago.
时间：13:45
zh-cn:我和我的植物感谢您的关注。
en:My plants and I thank youfor your attention.
时间：13:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
