时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我的问题是：我们是唯一的吗？
en:So, my question:are we alone?
时间： 0:15
zh-cn:人类的历史就是“理念“的历史 —将启蒙之光照亮黑暗角落的科学理念，被我们冷静或狂热拥护的理念，有我们为之而生存、死亡、杀戮，甚至牺牲的理念，有在历史长河中消逝的理念，也有被列入教条的理念。这是关于国家关于意识形态，关于领域，以及其中种种冲突的历史。但是，人类历史的任何片刻，从石器时代到信息时代，从苏美尔到巴比伦再从iPod到名流八卦，全部都是实现在..所有你所阅读的书卷中，诗歌中，所有的欢笑和泪水中，全部都发生在这里，这里，这里，这里。(笑声)
en:The story of humans is the story of ideas —scientific ideas that shine light into dark corners,ideas that we embrace rationally and irrationally,ideas for which we&#39;ve lived and died and killed and been killed,ideas that have vanished in history,and ideas that have been set in dogma.It&#39;s a story of nations,of ideologies,of territories,and of conflicts among them.But, every moment of human history,from the Stone Age to the Information Age,from Sumer and Babylon to the iPod and celebrity gossip,they&#39;ve all been carried out —every book that you&#39;ve read,every poem, every laugh, every tear —they&#39;ve all happened here.Here.Here.Here.(Laughter)
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:视角是一种非常强大的东西。视角会变。视角也可以被改变。从我的视角看来，我们是生存在这个充满可能性的宇宙中一个纤微的生命之岛上。数千年来，人类始终汲汲于追寻答案中，关于自然主义与超验存在之疑问的答案，关于我们是谁及为什么我们会出现在这里，当然还包括，是否在别的地方可能还存在着生命之类的问题的答案。真的是只有我们吗？是否我们孤单地存在于这充满能量与物质，化学元素与物理规律的浩瀚宇宙之中。如果真的是这样，那真是太浪费空间了。（笑声）但是，如果这不是真的呢？
en:Perspective is a very powerful thing.Perspectives can change.Perspectives can be altered.From my perspective, we live on a fragile island of life,in a universe of possibilities.For many millennia, humans have been on a journey to find answers,answers to questions about naturalism and transcendence,about who we are and why we are,and of course, who else might be out there.Is it really just us?Are we alone in this vast universeof energy and matter and chemistry and physics?Well, if we are, it&#39;s an awful waste of space.(Laughter)But, what if we&#39;re not?
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:如果在其他地方，有其他人在追问，并试图回答类似的问题？如果他们也仰望星空，凝视同一颗星辰，但是他们是在宇宙的另一边呢？对更久远文明的观察是否会启发我们寻找到让我们能顺利渡过越发不安定的科技启蒙阶段的方法？有没有可能因发现遥远文明和我们的共同的起源而最终带回了揭示全人类内在联系的讯息？无论是出生在旧金山，还是苏丹，或者是靠近银河系中心，我们都是弥漫在宇宙中的星尘十亿年发展的产物。我们所有人就是由最初的氢氦混合物进化而来。经过了如此漫长的进化之后，我们开始思考自己是从何而来。五十年前，寻找答案的旅程找到了另一条途径，SETI，寻找外太空星球智慧生命计划，启动了。
en:What if, out there, others are asking and answering similar questions?What if they look up at the night sky, at the same stars,but from the opposite side?Would the discovery of an older cultural civilization out thereinspire us to find ways to surviveour increasingly uncertain technological adolescence?Might it be the discovery of a distant civilizationand our common cosmic originsthat finally drives home the message of the bond among all humans?Whether we&#39;re born in San Francisco, or Sudan,or close to the heart of the Milky Way galaxy,we are the products of a billion-year lineage of wandering stardust.We, all of us,are what happens when a primordial mixture of hydrogen and heliumevolves for so long that it begins to ask where it came from.Fifty years ago,the journey to find answers took a different pathand SETI, the Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence,began.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:SETI究竟是什么？SETI是尝试使用天文学工具来寻找其他拥有科技的文明踪迹。我们自己的科技在星际间是可以被察觉的，别人的也同样如此。它可能是巨大的通信网络，或者是防御天体碰撞的护罩，甚至超出我们想像力的宏伟的空间机械工程，产生出可能被持久的搜索计划侦测到的无线电信号或光学频率。数千年来，我们实际上都在依靠牧师和思想家来指引和教导关于是否有地外文明的问题。今天我们能够使用21世纪的工具来尝试观察而不应是犹豫着该相信什么。
en:So, what exactly is SETI?Well, SETI uses the tools of astronomyto try and find evidence of someone else&#39;s technology out there.Our own technologies are visible over interstellar distances,and theirs might be as well.It might be that some massive network of communications,or some shield against asteroidal impact,or some huge astro-engineering project that we can&#39;t even begin to conceive of,could generate signals at radio or optical frequenciesthat a determined program of searching might detect.For millennia, we&#39;ve actually turned to the priests and the philosophersfor guidance and instruction on this question of whether there&#39;s intelligent life out there.Now, we can use the tools of the 21st century to try and observe what is,rather than ask what should be, believed.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:SETI并不预估地外文明的存在。它仅仅是提出可能性，或其存在在这个广阔宇宙中的概率，应该是非常相当平均的。这些数字展示出一个充满可能性的宇宙。我们的太阳是银河系中4000亿颗恒星中的一颗，并且我们知道许多其它星球都有行星系，在过去的14年里我们已经发现了超过350个这样的星系，包括上周所宣布的小型的行星，大小只有地球的两倍。即使所有的行星系在我们的星系中都不存在生命，另外还有1000多亿个星系，总共有10的22次方颗恒星。现在，我来耍个小把戏，我将再现今天早上做的实验。还记得吗，十亿？但是，这次不是十亿美元，而是十亿颗恒星。对，就十亿颗恒星。现在从这里到离地面20尺高的高度，就是是十万亿的数量。那10的22次方是怎样？这条边界线会是在哪里？那条线一直要到离这个演讲台380万公里远地方。（笑声）16倍于从这里到月球的距离，或者4％从这里到太阳的距离。
en:SETI doesn&#39;t presume the existence of extra terrestrial intelligence;it merely notes the possibility, if not the probabilityin this vast universe, which seems fairly uniform.The numbers suggest a universe of possibilities.Our sun is one of 400 billion stars in our galaxy,and we know that many other stars have planetary systems.We&#39;ve discovered over 350 in the last 14 years,including the small planet, announced earlier this week,which has a radius just twice the size of the Earth.And, if even all of the planetary systems in our galaxy were devoid of life,there are still 100 billion other galaxies out there,altogether 10^22 stars.Now, I&#39;m going to try a trick, and recreate an experiment from this morning.Remember, one billion?But, this time not one billion dollars, one billion stars.Alright, one billion stars.Now, up there, 20 feet above the stage,that&#39;s 10 trillion.Well, what about 10^22?Where&#39;s the line that marks that?That line would have to be 3.8 million miles above this stage.(Laughter)16 times farther away than the moon,or four percent of the distance to the sun.
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:所以一定是有很多可能性的。（笑声）在这个广袤无垠的宇宙中很多地方，比我们从前想像的更可能存在着生命，根据我们对地球上嗜极菌进行的研究一些有机体能在我们完全不能栖息的环境中生存，比如处在深海底炽热高压的热水流火山口，在封冻的冰层间，在沸腾的电酸中，甚至在核子反应堆的冷却剂里，这些嗜极菌的存在表明生命或许会出现在许多其他环境中。
en:So, there are many possibilities.(Laughter)And much of this vast universe,much more may be habitable than we once thought,as we study extremophiles on Earth —organisms that can live in conditions totally inhospitable for us,in the hot, high pressure thermal vents at the bottom of the ocean,frozen in ice, in boiling battery acid,in the cooling waters of nuclear reactors.These extremophiles tell us that life may exist in many other environments.
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:但是这些环境在宇宙中非常的分散。即使离我们最近的恒星，太阳 ，它的辐射也不得不经受光速的限制，需要整整8分钟才能到达这里。最近的恒星距离我们有4.2光年距离，这就意味着它所发出的光需要4.2年才能到这。而我们星系的边缘则有75000光年之远，离我们最近的星系要250万光年。这就是说任何我们能侦测到的信号都是很久很久之前就已经被发射出了。这样的一个信号或许能让我们一窥他们的过去，而不是现在。这就是为什么Phil Morrison称SETI为“未来考古学”。它为我们讲述了他们的过去侦测到的信号也给予了我们对一个长远未来之可能性的信心。
en:But those environments are going to be widely spaced in this universe.Even our nearest star, the Sun —its emissions suffer the tyranny of light speed.It takes a full eight minutes for its radiation to reach us.And the nearest star is 4.2 light years away,which means its light takes 4.2 years to get here.And the edge of our galaxy is 75,000 light years away,and the nearest galaxy to us, 2.5 million light years.That means any signal we detect would have started its journey a long time ago.And a signal would give us a glimpse of their past,not their present.Which is why Phil Morrison calls SETI, &quot;the archaeology of the future.&quot;It tells us about their past,but detection of a signal tells us it&#39;s possible for us to have a long future.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:我想这是David Deutsch在2005年所想表达的，当时他以自己的两条生活原则来结束在牛津TED大会的演讲，他认为是非常经典的。第一条是问题是不可避免的。第二条是问题是可以解决的。最终能决定SETI成功与否的是科技的长存，以及科技在宇宙中的平均距离 —在时间与空间中的距离。如果科技不能持续，我们就成功不了。在这个古老星系中我们的科技实属稚嫩，我们也不知道科技是否能够长存。
en:I think this is what David Deutsch meant in 2005,when he ended his Oxford TEDTalkby saying he had two principles he&#39;d like to share for living,and he would like to carve them on stone tablets.The first is that problems are inevitable.The second is that problems are soluble.So, ultimately what&#39;s going to determine the success or failure of SETIis the longevity of technologies,and the mean distance between technologies in the cosmos —distance over space and distance over time.If technologies don&#39;t last and persist,we will not succeed.And we&#39;re a very young technologyin an old galaxy,and we don&#39;t yet know whether it&#39;s possible for technologies to persist.
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:到现在为止我跟你们讲的都是非常大的数字，让我来讲些相对小的数字。就是地球上没有生命存在的时间的长度。如果我们考察下澳洲西部的杰克山所开掘出的锆石，从对杰克山取出的锆石的分析中发现自地球起源之后的几百万年间有着丰富的水甚至生命。所以在我们的星球上45.6亿年中的大部分时间都在培养生命而不只是在期待生命的出现。生命出现的非常地快，这也预示了宇宙中其他星球上出现生命的潜力。
en:So, up until now I&#39;ve been talking to you about really large numbers.Let me talk about a relatively small number.And that&#39;s the length of time that the Earth was lifeless.Zircons that are mined in the Jack Hills of western Australia,zircons taken from the Jack Hills of western Australiatell us that within a few hundred million years of the origin of the planetthere was abundant water and perhaps even life.So, our planet has spent the vast majority of its 4.56 billion year historydeveloping life,not anticipating its emergence.Life happened very quickly,and that bodes well for the potential of life elsewhere in the cosmos.
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:还有一点应该从这图表中去掉的就是所谓人类在这个星球能称得上是拥有支配权的智能生物是非常短暂的。仅仅在最近的几千年中现代人类才有出现对科技和文明的追求。一个种族需要对这个星球上生物的多样性以及惊人数量有非常深刻的认知方能准备与宇宙中其他的生命进行接触。
en:And the other thing that one should take away from this chartis the very narrow range of timeover which humans can claim to be the dominant intelligence on the planet.It&#39;s only the last few hundred thousand yearsmodern humans have been pursuing technology and civilization.So, one needs a very deep appreciationof the diversity and incredible scale of life on this planetas the first step in preparing to make contact with life elsewhere in the cosmos.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:我们不是处在进化的顶点。我们不是亿万年进化史中所精心设计的最终产物。我们是一个持续适应过程中的产物。我们是银河系角落里一个小行星上的居民。智人只是有着数百万年历史的生命之树上的一片绿叶。我们常用词不当，谈论着“人的升华”。我们虽理解物种关联性的科学依据但本身的自我意识却还未成熟。这所谓的“人的升华”，“进化的巅峰”，必须要去除。这是自然宇宙所不认同的一种特权。
en:We are not the pinnacle of evolution.We are not the determined productof billions of years of evolutionary plotting and planning.We are one outcome of a continuing adaptational process.We are residents of one small planetin a corner of the Milky Way galaxy.And Homo sapiens are one small leafon a very extensive Tree of Life,which is densely populated by organisms that have been honed for survivalover millions of years.We misuse language,and talk about the &quot;ascent&quot; of man.We understand the scientific basis for the interrelatedness of lifebut our ego hasn&#39;t caught up yet.So this &quot;ascent&quot; of man, pinnacle of evolution,has got to go.It&#39;s a sense of privilege that the natural universe doesn&#39;t share.
时间：11:49
zh-cn:洛伦艾斯利说过：“一个人在另一种生物的眼里看见自己之前都不会认清自己。”某一天这双眼可能属于一个拥有智慧的外星人，我们越快摒弃对进化的狭隘眼光，就能越早开始真正地探求我们的起源与方向。
en:Loren Eiseley has said,&quot;One does not meet oneselfuntil one catches the reflection from an eye other than human.&quot;One day that eye may be that of an intelligent alien,and the sooner we eschew our narrow view of evolutionthe sooner we can truly explore our ultimate origins and destinations.
时间：12:19
zh-cn:我们是宇宙进化史的一小部分，并会为自己的持续参与负起相应责任，或许SETI也会起到它的作用。在历史长河中，偶然间这异常宏伟的宇宙视角概念会浮出水面，而其结果就是我们所看见的具有强烈变革性及意义深远的发现。1543年，尼古拉斯·哥白尼出版了《天体运行论》，通过去除地球中心论，将太阳放在了这个太阳系的中心，他为我们打开通向更大的宇宙的视野，我们是属于其中的一小部分。哥白尼的革命直到今天还在持续地影响着科学、哲学、技术以及神学。
en:We are a small part of the story of cosmic evolution,and we are going to be responsible for our continued participation in that story,and perhaps SETI will help as well.Occasionally, throughout history, this conceptof this very large cosmic perspective comes to the surface,and as a result we see transformative and profound discoveries.So in 1543, Nicholas Copernicus published &quot;The Revolutions of Heavenly Spheres,&quot;and by taking the Earth out of the center,and putting the sun in the center of the solar system,he opened our eyes to a much larger universe,of which we are just a small part.And that Copernican revolution continues todayto influence science and philosophy and technology and theology.
时间：13:22
zh-cn:1956年Giuseppe Coccone和Philip Morrison在一篇期刊论文上发表了第一篇有关SETI的文章，并将SETI带入了科学界的主流。在1960年，SETI的Frank Drake进行了第一次对两颗恒星的观测对象是鲸鱼座T星和波江座天苑四星，这场观测大约进行了150小时。Drake并没有发现地外文明，但他从一架飞过的飞机上得到了宝贵的经验，那就是我们自己的科技会干涉到对地外文明的搜索。
en:So, in 1959, Giuseppe Coccone and Philip Morrisonpublished the first SETI article in a refereed journal,and brought SETI into the scientific mainstream.And in 1960, Frank Drake conducted the first SETI observationlooking at two stars, Tau Ceti and Epsilon Eridani,for about 150 hours.Now Drake did not discover extraterrestrial intelligence,but he learned a very valuable lesson from a passing aircraft,and that&#39;s that terrestrial technology can interferewith the search for extraterrestrial technology.
时间：13:59
zh-cn:从那时起我们都坚持的在搜寻，但是这搜索的程度是不可能夸大的。过去40年来SETI所作的全部努力，不过是沧海中的一杯水而已。不会有人因为这杯水里没有鱼就认为整个大海也都没有。21世纪（技术）允许我们建造更大的玻璃镜片，大的多的镜片在加利福尼亚北部，我们开始用首批42组艾伦望远镜阵列来进行观测我要占用一点点时间来向保罗·艾伦和内森·梅尔沃德以及所有TED社区中如此慷慨地支持这项研究的SETI成员们表示感谢。（掌声）
en:We&#39;ve been searching ever since,but it&#39;s impossible to overstate the magnitude of the search that remains.All of the concerted SETI efforts, over the last 40-some years,are equivalent to scooping a single glass of water from the oceans.And no one would decide that the ocean was without fishon the basis of one glass of water.The 21st century now allows us to build bigger glasses —much bigger glasses.In Northern California, we&#39;re beginning to take observationswith the first 42 telescopes of the Allen Telescope Array —and I&#39;ve got to take a moment right now to publicly thankPaul Allen and Nathan Myhrvoldand all the TeamSETI members in the TED communitywho have so generously supported this research.(Applause)
时间：14:59
zh-cn:ATA是第一个用大量小型碟形天线通过电脑相互链接，建造而成地望远镜。这样硅就变得和铝一样得重要，未来我们会增加更多天线至350座左右以获得更佳的敏感度并藉着摩尔定律而利用更多（数据）处理能力。今天我们的信号侦测算法可以分析出非常简单的人为信号和噪音。如果你非常仔细地观察还能看到旅行者1号飞船发出的信号，目前宇宙中离我们最远的人造物，106倍于地球至太阳之间的距离。经过这遥远的距离，当它的信号被我们接收到时已经变的非常微弱。可能用肉眼更难识别，但是使用高效的算法就能很轻易分析出来。不过这是个简单的信号，未来我们希望能分析出更加复杂的信号。
en:The ATA is the first telescope built from a large number of small dishes,and hooked together with computers.It&#39;s making silicon as important as aluminum,and we&#39;ll grow it in the future by adding more antennas to reach 350for more sensitivity and leveraging Moore&#39;s law for more processing capability.Today, our signal detection algorithmscan find very simple artifacts and noise.If you look very hard here you can see the signal from the Voyager 1 spacecraft,the most distant human object in the universe,106 times as far away from us as the sun is.And over those long distances, its signal is very faint when it reaches us.It may be hard for your eye to see it,but it&#39;s easily found with our efficient algorithms.But this is a simple signal,and tomorrow we want to be able to find more complex signals.
时间：15:55
zh-cn:今年是很棒的一年。2009是伽利略第一次使用望远镜的400周年，达尔文诞辰200周年，《物种起源》出版150周年，SETI作为科学研究的50周年，SETI成为非盈利组织的25周年，当然还有，TED25周年。下个月，开普勒飞船会发射升空并告诉我们像地球一样的行星在宇宙中的存在有多频繁，这即是SETI搜索的目标们。联合国宣布2009年为国际天文年，一个全球性的节日旨在帮助地球居民重新来探索我们的起源以及我们在宇宙中的位置。并且在2009年，华盛顿有了新的改变，这伴随着将科学回归到正确地位的承诺。（掌声）
en:This is a very good year.2009 is the 400th anniversary of Galileo&#39;s first use of the telescope,Darwin&#39;s 200th birthday,the 150th anniversary of the publication of &quot;On the Origin of Species,&quot;the 50th anniversary of SETI as a science,the 25th anniversary of the incorporation of the SETI Institute as a non-profit,and of course, the 25th anniversary of TED.And next month, the Kepler Spacecraft will launchand will begin to tell us just how frequent Earth-like planets are,the targets for SETI&#39;s searches.In 2009, the U.N. has declared it to be the International Year of Astronomy,a global festival to help us residents of Earthrediscover our cosmic origins and our place in the universe.And in 2009, change has come to Washington,with a promise to put science in its rightful position.(Applause)
时间：17:00
zh-cn:什么才能改变一切？这是今年“边缘”组织所提出的问题，而其中四个调查对象回答道：&quot;SETI&quot;。为什么？有人说过：“对地球以外智慧生物的发现将根除从最初就折磨着我们这个种族的孤单与唯我论。这将不仅仅是改变一切，它将彻彻底底地一次性改变所有事情。“如果真是那样，为什么在151位被调查者中只有4位这样是认为？我认为这是一个实现与表述上的问题，因为那排小字上说了：”你将希望在有生之年看到什么样的震撼想法与科技发展？“这样我们就有了一个实践上的困难。我们需要更大的镜片和更多的人手加入进来共同努力，或许在我们的有生之年可能会侦测到第一个来自地外的信号。
en:So, what would change everything?Well, this is the question the Edge foundation asked this year,and four of the respondents said, &quot;SETI.&quot;Why?Well, to quote:&quot;The discovery of intelligent life beyond Earthwould eradicate the loneliness and solipsismthat has plagued our species since its inception.And it wouldn&#39;t simply change everything,it would change everything all at once.&quot;So, if that&#39;s right, why did we only capture four out of those 151 minds?I think it&#39;s a problem of completion and delivery,because the fine print said,&quot;What game-changing ideas and scientific developmentswould you expect to live to see?&quot;So, we have a fulfillment problem.We need bigger glasses and more hands in the water,and then working together, maybe we can all live to seethe detection of the first extraterrestrial signal.
时间：17:58
zh-cn:这就带出了我的愿望。我希望你们能鼓励世界各地的地球人积极参与进这个对宇宙同伴的终极搜索中来。
en:That brings me to my wish.I wish that you would empower Earthlings everywhereto become active participantsin the ultimate search for cosmic company.
时间：18:14
zh-cn:第一步即是利用全球智囊团，来建构一个原始数据，这个原始数据能被储存、访问、操作，同时新的算法将被开发而且原有算法亦可改进。这是一个技术上的创新挑战，它也将改变参与其中的人们视角。接着，我们希望通过人工的分析来补强自动搜索。我们想使用人眼的模式识别能力来帮助发现现有算法所遗漏的黯淡、复杂的信号。
en:The first step would be to tap into the global brain trust,to build an environment where raw data could be stored,and where it could be accessed and manipulated,where new algorithms could be developed and old algorithms made more efficient.And this is a technically creative challenge,and it would change the perspective of people who worked on it.And then, we&#39;d like to augment the automated search with human insight.We&#39;d like to use the pattern recognition capability of the human eyeto find faint, complex signals that our current algorithms miss.
时间：18:58
zh-cn:当然我们很乐意启发及带动下一代。我们希望能将已整理好的资料用于教学，分发给各地的学生，学生们不一定要前来ATA（艾伦望远镜阵列）访问我们。我们希望能更好地讲述这些故事，并让年轻人参与进来，借此来改变他们的视角。
en:And, of course, we&#39;d like to inspire and engage the next generation.We&#39;d like to take the materials that we have built for education,and get them out to students everywhere,students that can&#39;t come and visit us at the ATA.We&#39;d like to tell our story better,and engage young people, and thereby change their perspective.
时间：19:22
zh-cn:很抱歉赛思·戈丁，但是千年以来，我们已经看出部落制会走到什么地步。我们看到了将一个本来就非常小的星球再分割成许多小岛会发生什么。最终，我们实际上只属于一个部落，我们都是地球人。SETI是一面镜子，一面能通过卓越视角折射出我们自己并削减人与人之间差异的镜子如果SETI除了改变这个星球上人类的视角以外什么都没做到，那它也可成为历史上影响最深远的运动之一。
en:I&#39;m sorry Seth Godin, but over the millennia, we&#39;ve seen where tribalism leads.We&#39;ve seen what happens when we divide an already small planetinto smaller islands.And, ultimately, we actually all belong to only one tribe,to Earthlings.And SETI is a mirror —a mirror that can show us ourselvesfrom an extraordinary perspective,and can help to trivialize the differences among us.If SETI does nothing but change the perspective of humans on this planet,then it will be one of the most profound endeavors in history.
时间：20:05
zh-cn:所以在2009年的开端，一位具有远见卓识的总统踏入美国国会并说到：“ 我们不得不相信某天老旧的怨恨终会消散，部落间的界线将会很快消失，随着这个世界越发变小，我们集体的人性自会彰显。”我期待着与TED社区一同努力倾听大家关于如何来完成这个愿望的意见，以及与大家合作，来促使这描述成真的那一天到来。
en:So, in the opening days of 2009,a visionary president stood on the steps of the U.S. Capitoland said, &quot;We cannot help but believethat the old hatreds shall someday pass,that the lines of tribe shall soon dissolve,that, as the world grows smaller, our common humanity shall reveal itself.&quot;So, I look forward to working with the TED communityto hear about your ideas about how to fulfill this wish,and in collaborating with you,hasten the day that that visionary statement can become a reality.
时间：20:44
zh-cn:谢谢。（掌声）
en:Thank you.(Applause)
