时间： 0:11
zh-cn:全息投影球。是在一个无回声的隔间里的三层的金属球。你可以把全息投影球想象为一个连有超级电脑的动态数码显微镜。20个研究员可以站在球体内悬置的桥上，而且完全和他们的数据融为一体。
en:The AlloSphere: it&#39;s a three-story metal spherein an echo-free chamber.Think of the AlloSphere as a large,dynamically varying digital microscopethat&#39;s connected to a supercomputer.20 researchers can stand on a bridgesuspended inside of the sphere, and becompletely immersed in their data.
时间： 0:30
zh-cn:想象一下如果一组物理学家可以站在原子的里面并且可以看到、听到电子的转动。想象一下如果一组雕塑家可以站在原子的矩阵内并用他们的材料进行雕塑。想象一下如果一组外科医生可以在大脑里飞翔，就像在大脑是一个世界一样，大脑组织就像世界的景观一样，并且想听音乐一样来听血流的密度水平。这就是你们将要看到的一部分研究，在全息投影球里进行的研究。
en:Imagine if a team of physicistscould stand inside of an atomand watch and hear electrons spin.Imagine if a group of sculptorscould be inside of a lattice of atomsand sculpt with their material.Imagine if a team of surgeons could flyinto the brain, as though it was a world,and see tissues as landscapes,and hear blood density levels as music.This is some of the research that you&#39;re going to seethat we&#39;re undertaking at the AlloSphere.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:但是先让我介绍一下我们一起工作的艺术家，科学家和工程师的小组。我是一个交响乐团的作曲家，也是全息投影球的发明者。和我的视觉艺术家同事，我们利用声音与图象组建了各种在时间与空间中拓展的数学模型。我们的科学家同时正在信息里寻找新的图案。而且我们的工程师同时在制造一个世界上最大的动态计算机，用来探索这种数据。我将要带你们游览在全息投影球里的5个研究项目，那将带领你们从宏观生物学数据一直到电子的环绕。
en:But first a little bit about this groupof artists, scientists, and engineersthat are working together.I&#39;m a composer, orchestrally-trained,and the inventor of the AlloSphere.With my visual artist colleagues, we mapcomplex mathematical algorithms that unfold in time and space,visually and sonically.Our scientist colleagues are finding new patternsin the information.And our engineering colleagues are makingone of the largest dynamically varying computers in the worldfor this kind of data exploration.I&#39;m going to fly you into five research projectsin the AlloSphere that are going to take you frombiological macroscopic dataall the way down to electron spin.
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:这第一个项目叫做全息大脑。这是我们试图通过感应大脑部分区域和美丽互动时去量化美丽。你将会飞跃我一个同事的大脑皮层。我们的数据是可以映射视觉和听觉的fMRI数据。现在大脑就像一个我们可以在内飞翔和与其互动的世界。你看到了12个智能电脑代表，就是那些和你一起在大脑飞翔的长方形。他们在探测血液的密度水平。然后他们将通过声音给你汇报。密度高的层次表示着大脑里更为活跃的地方。他们实际上在用高音映射高密度将这些密度唱给你听。
en:This first project is called the AlloBrain.And it&#39;s our attempt to quantify beautyby finding which regions of the brainare interactive while witnessing something beautiful.You&#39;re flying through the cortex of my colleague&#39;s brain.Our narrative here is real fMRI datathat&#39;s mapped visually and sonically.The brain now a world that we can fly through and interact with.You see 12 intelligent computer agents,the little rectangles that are flying in the brain with you.They&#39;re mining blood density levels.And they&#39;re reporting them back to you sonically.Higher density levels meanmore activity in that point of the brain.They&#39;re actually singing these densities to youwith higher pitches mapped to higher densities.
时间： 2:23
zh-cn:我们现在将要从真正的生物数据移到可以创造人工自然的生物合成数据，我将在下一个艺术和科学的装置中展现给你们。在这个艺术和科学的装置中，生物合成数据将要帮我们去了解自我衍化和生长。这对是在纳米科学内十分重要的一个模拟。对艺术家而言，我们将要去创造一个我们可以开阔和探索的新世界。就在这些自我生长数据在成长的同时，他们就像昆虫的种群一样在互动和交流。我们的研究员通过注入细菌代码去和这个数据互动，那些都是允许让生物不停成长的电脑程序。我们现在要从这个生物宏观世界领域，深入到原子世界，我们会飞到原子的矩阵中。这是真正的AFM，原子力显微镜数据这些数据来自于我同事提取固态照明和能源中心。他们已经发现了一个新的化学键，一种透明的太阳能电池的新材料。
en:We&#39;re now going to move from real biological datato biogenerative algorithms that create artificial naturein our next artistic and scientific installation.In this artistic and scientific installation, biogenerative algorithmsare helping us to understandself-generation and growth:very important for simulation in the nanoscaled sciences.For artists, we&#39;re making new worldsthat we can uncover and explore.These generative algorithms grow over time,and they interact and communicate as a swarm of insects.Our researchers are interacting with this databy injecting bacterial code,which are computer programs,that allow these creatures to grow over time.We&#39;re going to move now from the biologicaland the macroscopic world,down into the atomic world,as we fly into a lattice of atoms.This is real AFM — Atomic Force Microscope — datafrom my colleagues in the Solid State Lighting and Energy Center.They&#39;ve discovered a new bond,a new material for transparent solar cells.
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:我们将飞跃2000个原子的矩阵 —氧，氢，和锌。你看到了这个三角形的化学键。这是4个蓝色锌原子和一个氢原子绑在一起。你看到了流线型滑动的电子这是我们作为艺术家为科学家所生成的。这可以让他们在任何原子矩阵中去寻找连接的节点。我们认为这创造了美丽的结构艺术。你现在听到的声音实际上是这些原子的发射光谱。我们将他们映射到一个声音的结构上。所以他们就在和你们唱歌。氧，氢和锌有他们自己的特征。我们甚至将要更深入一点从这个原子矩阵到一个单独的氢原子。
en:We&#39;re flying through 2,000 lattice of atoms —oxygen, hydrogen and zinc.You view the bond in the triangle.It&#39;s four blue zinc atomsbonding with one white hydrogen atom.You see the electron flow with the streamlineswe as artists have generated for the scientists.This is allowing them to find the bonding nodes in any lattice of atoms.We think it makes a beautiful structural art.The sound that you&#39;re hearing are the actualemission spectrums of these atoms.We&#39;ve mapped them into the audio domain,so they&#39;re singing to you.Oxygen, hydrogen and zinc have their own signature.We&#39;re going to actually move even further downas we go from this lattice of atomsto one single hydrogen atom.
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:我们和我们的物理学同事一起工作得出含时间的三维薛定谔方程的数学算法。我们将要看到的是，在氢原子里3个低位环绕的电子的叠加.你可以听到和看到沿这些线所环绕的电子。白色的点是概率波那将在任何时间和空间内的这3个低位环绕中告诉你电子在哪一分钟后我们将要移去两个环绕。然后你将注意到一个脉冲。然后你将会听到一个波形的声音。这实际上是一个光发射器。就当这声音开始脉冲和对比的同时，我们的物理学家可以知道什么时候一个光子被发射了。
en:We&#39;re working with our physicist colleaguesthat have given us the mathematical calculationsof the n-dimensional Schrödinger equation in time.What you&#39;re seeing here right now is a superposition of an electronin the lower three orbitals of a hydrogen atom.You&#39;re actually hearing and seeing the electron flow with the lines.The white dots are the probability wavethat will show you where the electron isin any given point of time and spacein this particular three-orbital configuration.In a minute we&#39;re going to move to a two-orbital configuration,and you&#39;re going to notice a pulsing.And you&#39;re going to hear an undulation between the sound.This is actually a light emitter.As the sound starts to pulse and contract,our physicists can tell when a photon is going to be emitted.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:他们将在这些计算中找到新的数学结构。然后他们就会更加了解量子数学。我们要继续深入，去看看单个电子的环绕。这将是我给你们展示的最后一个项目。我们在量子计算研究中心和自旋电子学的同事，通过激光去测量电子的环绕。我们取得这个数据，然后我们用它做出了一个数学模型。你将要看到和听到量子数据的流动。这是为接下来的模拟量子电脑和信息技术十分重要的一步。
en:They&#39;re starting to find new mathematical structuresin these calculations.And they&#39;re understanding more about quantum mathematics.We&#39;re going to move even further down,and go to one single electron spin.This will be the final project that I show you.Our colleagues in the Center for Quantum Computationand Spintronics are actually measuring with their lasersdecoherence in a single electron spin.We&#39;ve taken this information and we&#39;vemade a mathematical model out of it.You&#39;re actually seeing and hearingquantum information flow.This is very important for the next step in simulatingquantum computers and information technology.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:好了，这些我给你们展示的小例子会让你们大概了解我们在圣巴巴拉加利福尼亚大学在做什么，是将艺术，科学和工程学放在一起去到一个数学，科学和艺术的新领域。我们希望你们都能来参观全息投影球。来启发我们在圣巴巴拉所创造的这个新仪器有什么新的用法。十分感谢。（掌声）
en:So these brief examples that I&#39;ve shown yougive you an idea of the kind of work that we&#39;re doingat the University of California, Santa Barbara,to bring together, arts, scienceand engineeringinto a new age of math, science and art.We hope that all of you will come to see the AlloSphere.Inspire us to think of new ways that we can usethis unique instrument that we&#39;ve created at Santa Barbara.Thank you very much.(Applause)
