时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我真正来这是要给大家一个挑战。我也知道大家已经有很多挑战。我要讲的挑战是让我们大家重审和平的真正含义。和平不是“祈求上帝，让和平来到我这吧。”和平也不是如这副图里的和平鸽和彩虹那么可爱。当我看到彩虹和和平鸽的象征，我内心感到平静，并沉思默想。关于和平，我认为不带有公正性和公平性的和平不是持久的和平。持久的和平是要让多数的人们在这个星球上能有机会获得足够多的资源来有尊严的活着，他们也有权得到教育和医疗保健，这样他们才可以摆脱贫困摆脱恐惧。这被称为人类的基本安全。我并不是一个完全意义上的和平主义者比起我一些任务繁重，倡导非暴力的朋友们，比如梅雷亚德·麦圭尔Mairead McGuire。我明白我们人类把事情弄砸了—来用这个好听的词汇，因为我向我妈许诺我不会当众用F打头的词来咒骂。我尽量努力做到。妈妈，我的确再努力。
en:I&#39;m actually hereto make a challenge to people.I know there have been many challenges made to people.The one I&#39;m going to makeis that it is time for us to reclaimwhat peace really means.Peace is not &quot;Kumbaya, my Lord.&quot;Peace is not the dove and the rainbow —as lovely as they are.When I see the symbolsof the rainbow and the dove,I think of personal serenity.I think of meditation.I do not thinkabout what I consider to be peace,which is sustainable peacewith justice and equality.It is a sustainable peacein which the majority of peopleon this planethave access to enough resourcesto live dignified lives,where these people have enough accessto educationand health care,so that they can live in freedom from wantand freedom from fear.This is called human security.And I am not a complete pacifistlike some of my really, really heavy-duty,non-violent friends,like Mairead McGuire.I understand that humansare so &quot;messed up&quot; —to use a nice word,because I promised my momI&#39;d stop using the F-bomb in public.And I&#39;m trying harder and harder.Mom, I&#39;m really trying.
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:我们需要很少的警力，我们也需要很少的军事力量，但这都是为了国防。我们要重新定义在这世上，什么会使我们感到安全。安全不意味着让我们的国家全副武装。也不是让其他的国家买我们生产的武器来全副武装他们。和平是指合理地花钱，使得世界上的各个国家变得安全，世上的人民更加安全。我这就想到最近在国会的提案，总统要拨款84亿美元促成中俄新削减战略武器条约。我当然也支持中俄新削减战略武器条约。但是他拨款840亿美元来使核武器现代化。大家该知道联合国谈到要完成联合国千年发展目标需要800亿美元的这个数目？就是这么点钱，对我而言，我希望我银行账户有这么多钱，但是我没有。在全球范围看，这数目是极少的钱。但是有钱来搞现代化武器，我们并不需要武器，在我们一生中我们也用不着武器，除非我们站起来采取行动，来改变；除非我们开始相信我们所听到的这最近两天所有的事都是让我们大家一致努力使得人类更安全。和平也意味拯救濒危物种老虎。它也指停止焦油砂的开采。它还指能运用医疗器械尽可能地帮助癌症患者。这所有的事都意味着安全和平。我们要合理地在这所有方面花钱。和平也是有关行动的。
en:We need a little bit of police;we need a little bit of military,but for defense.We need to redefinewhat makes us securein this world.It is not arming our countryto the teeth.It is not getting other countriesto arm themselves to the teethwith the weapons that we produceand we sell them.It is using that money more rationallyto make the countries of the world secure,to make the people of the world secure.I was thinking aboutthe recent ongoingsin Congress,where the president is offering8.4 billion dollarsto try to get the START vote.I certainly support the START vote.But he&#39;s offering 84 billion dollarsfor the modernizingof nuclear weapons.Do you know the figure that the U.N. talks aboutfor fulfilling the Millennium Development Goalsis 80 billion dollars?Just that little bit of money,which to me, I wish it was in my bank account —it&#39;s not, but ...In global terms, it&#39;s a little bit of money.But it&#39;s going to modernize weaponswe do not needand will not be gotten rid of in our lifetime,unless we get up off our ...and take action to make it happen,unless we begin to believethat all of the things that we&#39;ve been hearing aboutin these last two daysare elements of what come togetherto make human security.It is saving the tigers.It is stopping the tar sands.It is having accessto medical equipmentthat can actually tell who does have cancer.It is all of those things.It is using our money for all of those things.It is about action.
时间： 3:56
zh-cn:几个星期前，我和教皇陛下在广岛—当时我们，大概有8位诺贝尔奖得主，在那座城市面对着数千人。他是个坏人；就像个在教堂的坏孩子。我们看着每个人，等着轮到我们的发言，他斜靠着我说道，“茱迪，我是个信佛的和尚。”我说，“是吗，教皇陛下？你的教袍可不是这么说哦。”（笑声）他说，“你知道我喜欢冥想，然后祈祷。”我说，“那好呀。很棒。我们这世界上正需要它。我没有冥思祈祷过，但那很酷。”他说，“但我开始质疑了。我不再相信冥思和祈祷会改变这个世界。我认为我们需要的是行动。”教皇陛下，在他的任期内，变成我新的行动楷模。
en:I was in Hiroshimaa couple of weeks ago,and His Holiness —we&#39;re sitting there in front of thousands of people in the city,and there were about eight of us Nobel laureates.And he&#39;s a bad guy. He&#39;s like a bad kid in church.We&#39;re staring at everybody, waiting our turn to speak,and he leans over to me, and he says,&quot;Jody, I&#39;m a Buddhist monk.&quot;I said, &quot;Yes, Your Holiness.Your robe gives it away.&quot;(Laughter)He said, &quot;You knowthat I kind of like meditation, and I pray.&quot;I said, &quot;That&#39;s good. That&#39;s good.We need that in the world.I don&#39;t follow that, but that&#39;s cool.&quot;And he says, &quot;But I have become skeptical.I do not believethat meditation and prayerwill change this world.I think what we needis action.&quot;His Holiness, in his robes,is my new action hero.
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:前几天，我和昂山素季讲过话通过话。大家大都知道，她在缅甸是个民主英雄。你大概也知道她最近20年中有15年是被监禁，因为她致力于把民主带到她的国家。几个星期前她刚被释放，我们都非常关心她能自由多久，因为她已经能在仰光的街头自由行走，鼓动求变革。她已经串行于街头，和党派组织一起努力重建民主。但我和她谈到一系列问题时，有一件事我想说，因为她和教皇陛下说得一模一样。她说，“你知道，要在我的国家取得民主还有一段漫长的路要走。但我相信只有艰苦卓绝的努力，才会有希望。我不相信变革有希望，除非我们采取行动。”
en:I spoke with Aung Sun Suu Kyia couple of days ago.As most of you know,she&#39;s a hero for democracy in her country, Burma.You probably also knowthat she has spent 15 of the last 20 yearsimprisoned for her effortsto bring about democracy.She was just released a couple of weeks ago,and we&#39;re very concerned to see how long she will be free,because she is already out in the streets in Rangoon,agitating for change.She is already out in the streets, working with the partyto try to rebuild it.But I talked to her for a range of issues.But one thing that I want to say,because it&#39;s similar to what His Holiness said.She said, &quot;You know, we have a long road to goto finally get democracy in my country.But I don&#39;t believe in hopewithout endeavor.I don&#39;t believe in the hope of change,unless we take actionto make it so.&quot;
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:这是另一位我眼中的女英雄。她是我的朋友，希林·伊巴迪博士，第一位获得了诺贝尔和平奖的穆斯林女性。她已经被流放了一年半。当你问她，她流放期间都住在哪？她会说世界上的机场。她之所以到处旅行是因为她在大选期间被驱逐出她的国家。相反要回家，她反而赋予跟她一起工作的其它女性一个任务，对她说，“呆在国外。我们需要你在外面代表我们。我们需要同在外面的说话，这样你能够知晓这里发生的任何事。”一年半来，她到处发言代表着她本国其他女性的心声。
en:Here&#39;s another woman hero of mine.She&#39;s my friend, Dr. Shirin Ebadi,the first Muslim womanto receive the Nobel Peace Prize.She has been in exilefor the last year and a half.You ask her where she lives — where does she live in exile?She says the airports of the world.She is traveling because she was out of the countryat the time of the elections.And instead of going home,she conferred with all the other women that she works with,who said to her, &quot;Stay out. We need you out.We need to be able to talk to you out there,so that you can give the messageof what&#39;s happening here.&quot;A year and a half —she&#39;s out speakingon behalf of the other women in her country.
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:旺加里·马塔伊-2004年和平奖得主。大家称她为种树女使者，但她做了更多的事。致力于和平工作需要特别有创意。每一天都是艰苦卓绝的工作。当她种下这些树时，我不清楚多数人是否理解，在当时，她得动员人们一同行动来种下这些树，谈论如何对付她本国的独裁政府。在政府的捣毁行为下，人们是没法聚集在一起，也会被送进监狱。但如果人们为环境保护共同种树，那就是创新性的工作。但和平不仅仅是指这些具有代表性的女性，如希林，昂山素季和旺加里·马塔伊；和平也是有关世界上的任何女性她们也都在努力奋斗改变这世界。
en:Wangari Maathai —2004 Peace laureate.They call her the &quot;Tree Lady,&quot;but she&#39;s more than the Tree Lady.Working for peaceis very creative.It&#39;s hard work every day.When she was planting those trees,I don&#39;t think most people understandthat, at the same time,she was using the actionof getting people together to plant those treesto talk about how to overcomethe authoritarian government in her country.People could not gatherwithout getting busted and taken to jail.But if they were together planting trees for the environment,it was okay —creativity.But it&#39;s not just iconic womenlike Shirin,like Aung Sun Suu Kyi, like Wangari Maathai —it is other women in the worldwho are also struggling togetherto change this world.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:缅甸妇女联盟-一个由缅甸女性11个独立组织的组成的联盟她们聚在一起是因为数量上的力量。共同努力才会改变我们的世界。在缅甸由妇女发起的万人签名运动共同为了改善人权做努力，把民主带到她们的国家。当一个人被逮捕进监狱，另一个人又站起来，加入这运动，她们意识到，只有她们协同一致地工作，她们最终才会给她们的国家带来改变。
en:The Women&#39;s League of Burma,11 individual organizations of Burmese womencame together because there&#39;s strength in numbers.Working together is what changes our world.The Million Signatures Campaignof women inside Burmaworking together to change human rights,to bring democracy to that country.When one is arrested and taken to prison,another one comes out and joins the movement,recognizing that if they work together,they will ultimately bring changein their own country.
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:这幅图中间的是梅雷亚德·麦圭尔，贝蒂·威廉斯在右手边，把和平带给北爱尔兰。我要给大家将个简单的故事。一名爱尔兰共和军的驾驶员被打死了，他的汽车朝街边的行人们撞去。那里有一位母亲和3名儿童。3名儿童当场被撞死。这位母亲是梅雷亚德的姐姐。与其在悲伤，绝望，悲痛中苦不堪言，还不如面对这场暴力，梅雷亚德携手贝蒂一起联合坚定的新教派和坚定的天主教派人员，他们走上街头宣传“停止暴力。”她们号集了数以万计的人们，主要是女性—还有一些男性—走上街头，要求改变。她们一直都致力于把和平带到北爱尔兰，她们还为此孜孜不倦地工作着，因为还有很多工作要做。
en:Mairead McGuire in the middle,Betty Williams on the right-hand side —bringing peace to Northern Ireland.I&#39;ll tell you the quick story.An IRA driver was shot,and his car plowed into peopleon the side of the street.There was a mother and three children.The children were killed on the spot.It was Mairead&#39;s sister.Instead of giving into grief, depression, defeatin the face of that violence,Mairead hooked up with Betty —a staunch Protestant and a staunch Catholic —and they took to the streetsto say, &quot;No more violence.&quot;And they were able to gettens of thousands of, primarily, women, some men,in the streets to bring about change.And they have beenpart of what brought peace to Northern Ireland,and they&#39;re still working on it,because there&#39;s still a lot more to do.
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:这位是瑞格博塔·梦珠·图姆Rigoberta Menchu Tum。她也获得过和平奖。她目前在竞选总统。她在教育她国家的土著居民民主意味着什么，大家怎样共同努力可以把民主带到当地，教育大家如何投票—但是这民主不仅仅是关于投票权，它更是让大家成为一名积极踊跃的公民。
en:This is Rigoberta Menchu Tum.She also received the Peace Prize.She is now running for president.She is educating the indigenous people of her countryabout what it means to be a democracy,about how you bring democracy to the country,about educating, about how to vote —but that democracy is not just about voting;it&#39;s about being an active citizen.
时间： 9:35
zh-cn:然后这是我从事的工作-国际反地雷组织。让这个运动成型的关键之一是从2个非政府组织开始壮大到遍及世界上的90个国家的数以千计的人们为了一个共同的事业“禁止地雷”努力。为这项运动努力的一些人有可能每月仅能工作1小时。他们能志愿的时间只有这么多。也有像我一样的其他人，我们是全职工作。但是这项运动是大家共同行动，带来和平的改变。
en:That&#39;s what I got stuck doing —the landmine campaign.One of the things that made this campaign workis because we grew from two NGOsto thousandsin 90 countries around the world,working together in common cause to ban landmines.Some of the people who worked in our campaigncould only work maybe an hour a month.They could maybe volunteer that much.There were others, like myself,who were full-time.But it was the actions, together, of all of usthat brought about that change.
时间：10:08
zh-cn:以我看，我们今天所需的是让人们站起来，行动起来，重新诠释和平的意义。世界不应该是肮脏的。每一天都要辛勤得工作。假如我们中的每一个人都能关心我们所关心的不同之处并站出来，尽我们所能，做我们所能做的，我们就会改变这世界，我们就会拯救这世界。我们等不了其他人来做了，我们必须自己行动起来。
en:In my view, what we need todayis people getting upand taking actionto reclaim the meaning of peace.It&#39;s not a dirty word.It&#39;s hard work every single day.And if each of uswho cares about the different things we care aboutgot up off our buttsand volunteeredas much time as we could,we would change this world,we would save this world.And we can&#39;t wait for the other guy. We have to do it ourselves.
时间：10:37
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：10:39
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
