时间： 0:11
zh-cn:谈论食物是很时兴，也很适当的，探讨食物的种类，色泽，芳香，和味道。但是当食物穿过消化系统，变成粪便排出来后，再去谈论就不那么时兴了，而且反而会很恶心。
en:It is very fashionable and proper to speak about foodin all its forms, all its colors, aromas and tastes.But after the food goes through the digestive system,when it is thrown out as crap,it is no longer fashionableto speak about it.It is rather revolting.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:我是从牛粪毕业成大粪的人。（笑声）我的组织，Gram Vikas，意思是“乡村发展组织”，正致力于可再生能源领域。我们的主要工作，是制作沼气，可供农村厨房使用的沼气。我们在印度使用动物肥料制作沼气。在印度，动物肥料通常被称为母牛粪。但我是对性别敏感的人，我就叫它牛粪吧。但是后来，我们意识到卫生的重要性，以及妥当处理粪便的重要性，我们开始投身于卫生领域。在印度和大多数发展中国家，80%的疾病是水质低下造成的。如果我们寻找水质低下的原因，我们对人类粪便处理的糟糕态度是罪魁祸首。
en:I&#39;m a guy who has graduated from bullshit to full-shit.(Laughter)My organization, Gram Vikas, which means&quot;village development organization,&quot;was working in the area of renewable energy.On the most part, we were producing biogas,biogas for rural kitchens.We produce biogas in India by using animal manure,which usually, in India, is called cow dung.But as the gender-sensitive person that I am,I would like to call it bullshit.But realizing later onhow important were sanitationand the disposal of crap in a proper way,we went into the arena of sanitation.Eighty percent of all diseases in India and most developing countriesare because of poor quality water.And when we look at the reason for poor quality water,you find that it is our abysmal attitude to the disposal of human waste.
时间： 2:07
zh-cn:人类粪便，以其最原始的形态，又回到了饮用水，洗澡水，清洗用水，灌溉用水，等各种形式的用水中。这造成了农村地区80%的疾病。在印度，很不幸的是，去采水的只有妇女。为了各种家用目的，妇女需要去采水。这是可悲的。
en:Human waste, in its rawest form,finds its way back to drinking water,bathing water, washing water,irrigation water, whatever water you see.And this is the cause for 80 percent of the diseases in rural areas.In India, it is unfortunately only thewomen who carry water.So for all domestic needs,women have to carry water.So that is a pitiable state of affairs.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:公开排便的现象肆虐。印度70%的排便是在公共场合。人们坐在公共地方，风吹着人的后部，人挡着自己的脸，暴露出自己的关键部分，多么纯朴地那样坐着——70%的印度。如果看全世界的情况，公开场合的粪便中60%是印度人的。多好的百分比。我不知道我们印度人是不是应该为这一殊荣感到自豪。（笑声）
en:Open defecation is rampant.Seventy percent of Indiadefecates in the open.They sit there out in the open,with the wind on their sails,hiding their faces, exposing their bases,and sitting there in pristine glory —70 percent of India.And if you look at the world total,60 percent of all the crap that is throwninto the open is by Indians.A fantastic distinction.I don&#39;t know if we Indians can be proudof such a distinction.(Laughter)
时间： 3:29
zh-cn:所以我们，联合很多村庄，开始讨论如何真正解决这一卫生问题。我们集合在一起，开展了这个叫MANTRA的项目，MANTRA是“变革农村地区的运动和行动网络”的简称。我们专注的是变革，农村地区的变革。同意实施这一项目的村庄，会组织一个法律团体，其成员是所有村民，他们选举一些人来实施这一项目，并在之后由这些人来负责项目的经营和维持。人们决定建造一所厕所和一间澡堂。从一处受保护的水源中，水会被引致高层储水池，然后用管道连接每户人家，每户有三个水龙头：一个在厕所，一个在浴室，一个在厨房，24小时供水。很可悲的是，我们的城市，例如新德里和孟买，没有24小时供水。但是在这些村落中，我们想要24小时供水。
en:So we, together with a lot of villages,we began to talk about how to really address this situation of sanitation.And we came together and formed a project called MANTRA.MANTRA stands for Movement and ActionNetwork for Transformation of Rural Areas.So we are speaking about transformation,transformation in rural areas.Villages that agree to implement this project,they organize a legal societywhere the general body consists of all memberswho elect a group of men and womenwho implement the projectand, later on, who look afterthe operation and maintenance.They decide to build a toilet and a shower room.And from a protected water source,water will be brought to an elevated waterreservoir and piped to all householdsthrough three taps:one in the toilet, one in the shower, one in the kitchen, 24 hours a day.The pity is that our cities,like New Delhi and Bombay,do not have a 24-hour water supply.But in these villages, we want to have it.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:而且水质要有极大的不同。在印度，我们有一种观念，广为政府机构和所有决策者接受，那就是穷人适用糟糕的条件，特别穷的人适用特别糟糕的条件。这一观念，加上最便宜的就是最经济的这一诺贝尔奖级别的理论，其组合成的鸡尾酒被强灌于穷人。对此，我们在进行反抗。我们认为穷人几个世纪以来都在受到侮辱。即便是在卫生上，穷人也不该受到侮辱。卫生不仅是关于人类粪便处理，而更多是关于尊严。修建这些厕所时，我们通常听到说厕所比人们的住处还好。你所看到的前面是连接房，其余是厕所。
en:There is a distinct difference in the quality.Well in India, we have a theory,which is very much acceptedby the government bureaucracyand all those who matter,that poor people deserve poor solutionsand absolutely poor people deservepathetic solutions.This, combined with a Nobel Prize-worthy theory thatthe cheapest is the most economic,is the heady cocktail that the poorare forced to drink.We are fighting against this.We feel that the poor have beenhumiliated for centuries.And even in sanitation,they should not be humiliated.Sanitation is more about dignitythan about human disposal of waste.And so you build these toilets and very often,we have to hear that the toilets arebetter than their houses.And you can see that in front are the attached housesand the others are the toilets.
时间： 6:13
zh-cn:这些人，村里没有一户例外，都决定建造一间厕所，一个浴室。为了这一目的，他们团结一起，在当地取材——当地的材料例如瓦砾，沙石，集料，而通常政府至少也会给予部分补贴来采购其他材料，例如混凝土，钢铁，和便桶。然后人们建造一间厕所和一个浴室。还有，所有的非技能劳动者，这些多数没有田产的每日工，从中可以获得机会来训练成石匠和管道工。这些人受到劳动训练，其他人收集材料。当他们都准备就绪时，他们开始建造厕所和浴室，当然，还有水塔，高层的储水池。我们用由两个过滤池组成的系统来处理废物。污物从厕所中出来，进入第一个过滤池。装满后，过滤池被封闭，污物进入第二个过滤池。我们发现如果在这些过滤池附近种植香蕉树和木瓜树，他们会生长得非常好，因为他们能吸取所有养分，然后就能收获非常可口的香蕉和木瓜。如果你们有人来我的地方，我会很乐意跟你们分享这些香蕉和木瓜。这里，你能看到完成的厕所和水塔。
en:So these people, without a singleexception of a family in a village,decide to build a toilet, a bathing room.And for that, they come together,collect all the local materials —local materials like rubble, sand, aggregates,usually a government subsidy is availableto meet at least part of the cost of external materialslike cement, steel, toilet commode.And they build a toilet and a bathing room.Also, all the unskilled laborers, that is daily wage earners, mostly landless,are given an opportunity to be trained as masons and plumbers.So while these people are being trained, others are collecting the materials.And when both are ready,they build a toilet, a shower room,and of course also a water tower, an elevated water reservoir.We use a system of two leach pits to treat the waste.From the toilet, the muck comesinto the first leach pit.And when it is full, it is blocked and it can go to the next.But we discovered that if you plantbanana trees, papaya treeson the periphery of these leach pits,they grow very wellbecause they suck up all the nutrientsand you get very tasty bananas, papayas.If any of you come to my place,I would be happy to sharethese bananas and papayas with you.So there you can see the completed toilets, the water towers.
时间： 8:06
zh-cn:要知道，这个村子中，大多数人甚至都不识字。这里永远都是24小时供水，因为如果自己储存水的话，水很容易污染——孩子把手放进去，或者什么别的掉进去。所以，不需要储存水。永远是用自来水。这是正在建造的高层储水池，以及完工后的样子。因为要建得很高，就会有剩余空间，水塔下面还会建两三间屋子，这些屋子被村子用于开各种委员会会议。
en:This is in a village where most of the people are even illiterate.It is always a 24-hour water supplybecause water gets pollutedvery often when you store it —a child dips his or her hand into it,something falls into it.So no water is stored. It&#39;s always on tap.This is how an elevated water reservoir is constructed.And that is the end product.Because it has to go high,and there is some space available,two or three rooms are madeunder the water tower,which are used by the village for different committee meetings.
时间： 8:50
zh-cn:关于这一项目的影响，我们有很明确的证据。我们开始前，如往常一样，村里超过80%的人受水源疾病困扰。项目完成之后，我们的实证研究显示，平均82%，所有村庄中——有1200座村庄完成了该项目——水源疾病下降了82%。（掌声）妇女通常要花费，尤其是在夏季，每天六到七个小时采水。而当她们去采水时，因为如我之前所说，采水的只有妇女，她们经常会带上自己的小孩，女孩儿，一起去采水，或者是让她们在家照看兄妹。所以女孩子上学的不到9%，如果有学校的话。男孩呢，大约30%。但现在，女孩，已经到了差不多90%，而男孩大约是100%。（掌声）村子里生计最没有保障的是没有田产的每日工。现在他们受过这种训练，成为石匠，管道工，会弯钢筋，现在他们挣钱的能力提高了300%到400%。
en:We have had clear evidenceof the great impact of this program.Before we started, there were, as usual,more than 80 percent of people sufferingfrom waterborne diseases.But after this, we have empirical evidencethat 82 percent, on average,among all these villages —1,200 villages have completed it —waterborne diseases have come down 82 percent.(Applause)Women usually used to spend, especially in the summer months,about six to seven hours a day carrying water.And when they went to carry water,because, as I said earlier,it&#39;s only women who carry water,they used to take their little children,girl children, also to carry water,or else to be back at hometo look after the siblings.So there were less than nine percentof girl children attending school,even if there was a school.And boys, about 30 percent.But girls, it has gone to about 90 percentand boys, almost to 100 percent.(Applause)The most vulnerable section in a villageare the landless laborers who arethe daily wage-earners.Because they have gone through this trainingto be masons and plumbers and bar benders,now their ability to earn has increased 300 to 400 percent.
时间：10:45
zh-cn:这是民主的行动，因为有成员，理事会，委员会。人们在提出问题，人们在自我统治，人们在学习管理自己的事务，他们正在将自己的未来放入自己掌中。这是草根层面的民主行动。目前，超过1200座村庄完成了这一项目。受益者超过40万人，而且还在继续。我希望该项目能继续前进。
en:So this is a democracy in actionbecause there is a general body, a governing board, the committee.People are questioning, people are governing themselves,people are learning to managetheir own affairs,they are taking their own futuresinto their hands.And that is democracy atthe grassroots level in action.More than 1,200 villages have so far done this.It benefits over 400,000 peopleand it&#39;s still going on.And I hope it continues to move ahead.
时间：11:28
zh-cn:对于印度和类似的发展中国家而言，军队和武器，软件公司和太空飞船，可能没有自来水和厕所重要。
en:For India and such developing countries,armies and armaments,software companies and spaceshipsmay not be as importantas taps and toilets.
时间：11:53
zh-cn:谢谢。非常感谢。
en:Thank you. Thank you very much.
时间：11:56
zh-cn:（掌声）谢谢。
en:(Applause)Thank you.
