时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我要谈一下46亿年的历史，仅用18分钟。也就是每分钟3亿年。让我们从NASA获得的第一幅火星图片开始。这是Mariner IV从火星飞过拍下的照片。拍摄于1965年。(为第一张火星的近距离照片-摄于1965年7月14日)当这幅照片公开时，著名的科学杂志，《纽约时代》，在编者栏中写道：“火星毫无吸引力,一片死寂。NASA不应该在火星探索中浪费更多时间了。”幸运的，我们在NASA华盛顿总部的领导们更有眼光。我们开始了对这颗红色星球的大规模研究。
en:I want to talk about 4.6 billion years of historyin 18 minutes.That&#39;s 300 million years per minute.Let&#39;s start with the first photograph NASA obtainedof planet Mars.This is fly-by, Mariner IV.It was taken in 1965.When this picture appeared,that well-known scientific journal,The New York Times, wrote in its editorial,&quot;Mars is uninteresting.It&#39;s a dead world. NASA should not spendany time or effort studying Mars anymore.&quot;Fortunately, our leaders in Washingtonat NASA headquarters knew betterand we began a very extensive studyof the red planet.
时间： 0:59
zh-cn:在所有自然科学中，核心问题之一是，“地球之外是否存在生命？”我相信火星是最有可能存在地外生命的地方。我将在几分钟为大家呈现一些令人惊异的数据，这些在表明着火星上可能存在生命。不过还是让我们先从一张海盗号(Viking)火星探测器拍到的照片开始吧。这是一张由海盗号(Viking)火星探测器所拍到的照片拼接而成的照片。海盗号(Viking)火星探测器由NASA Langley研究中心研制并维护。1976年夏天我们发射了2个卫星和2个着陆探测器。我们共计有4个航天器，其中2个绕火星飞行，2个着陆于火星表面，是一个令人惊叹的成果。
en:One of the key questions in all of science,&quot;Is there life outside of Earth?&quot;I believe that Mars is the most likely targetfor life outside the Earth.I&#39;m going to show you in a few minutessome amazing measurements that suggestthere may be life on Mars.But let me start with a Viking photograph.This is a composite taken by Viking in 1976.Viking was developed and managed at theNASA Langley Research Center.We sent two orbiters and two landers in the summer of 1976.We had four spacecraft, two around Mars,two on the surface —an amazing accomplishment.
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:这张照片是(人类)在所有地球外的其他行星的地表拍摄的第一张。这是由海盗号(Viking)火星登陆探测器在火星表面拍摄的一张照片。是的，火星(the red planet)确实是红的。火星的大小是地球的一半。但是由于地球的2/3被水覆盖，火星的陆地面积和地球陆地面积相当。所以，火星是非常大的地方，虽然它只有地球的一半大小。我们已经拥有火星表面的地形测量数据，知晓海拔的差异。
en:This is the first photograph taken fromthe surface of any planet.This is a Viking Lander photographof the surface of Mars.And yes, the red planet is red.Mars is half the size of the Earth,but because two-thirds of the Earth is covered by water,the land area on Marsis comparable to the land area on Earth.So, Mars is a pretty big place even though it&#39;s half the size.We have obtained topographic measurementsof the surface of Mars. We understandthe elevation differences.
时间： 2:16
zh-cn:我们知道很多火星的信息。火星拥有太阳系中最大的火山—Olympus Mons。火星拥有太阳系中的大峡谷—Valles Marineris。非常非常吸引人的星球。火星有太阳系最大的环形山—Hellas Basin。足足2000英里宽。如果在撞击物撞击到火星时，你刚好在火星上，那真是在火星上度过的悲惨的一天。（笑声）这是Olympus Mons。它比Arizona州大。
en:We know a lot about Mars.Mars has the largest volcano in the solar system,Olympus Mons.Mars has the Grand Canyonof the solar system, Valles Marineris.Very, very interesting planet.Mars has the largestimpact crater in the solar system,Hellas Basin.This is 2,000 miles across.If you happened to be on Marswhen this impactor hit,it was a really bad day on Mars.(Laughter)This is Olympus Mons.This is bigger than the state of Arizona.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:火山非常重要，因为火山产生大气和海洋。我们现在看到的是Valles Marineris，这个太阳系最大的峡谷，足以把美国版图覆盖在上面，3000英里长。火星最迷人的特性之一，美国科学院所说的，宇宙年龄十大神秘之一是火星的特定区域具有如此之强的磁场。(这个磁场)我们称之为地壳磁场。火星上的一些区域，或许有什么原因，但我们不知为何会达到此种程度，其地表具有非常非常强烈的磁性。
en:Volcanoes are important, because volcanoesproduce atmospheres and they produce oceans.We&#39;re looking at Valles Marineris,the largest canyon in the solar system,superimposed on a map of the United States,3,000 miles across.One of the most intriguing features about Mars,the National Academy of Science saysone of the 10 major mysteries of the space age,is why certain areas of Marsare so highly magnetized.We call this crustal magnetism.There are regions on Mars, where, for some reason —we don&#39;t understand why at this point —the surface is very, very highly magnetized.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:火星上有水吗？答案是没有，现在没有液态水存在于火星表面上。但有一些有意思的证据显示火星早期可能曾经有河流和快速流动的水。目前火星非常非常干燥。我们认为在极冠下存在一些水。这是北极和南极极冠。这是一些近期的照片。来自勇气号(Spirit)和机遇号(Opportunity)。这些照片显示曾经火星表面存在流动非常迅速的水。为什么水很重要？水很重要在于生命离不开水。水是在进化中的关键因素，是一个星球上的生命起源。
en:Is there water on Mars?The answer is no, there is no liquid wateron the surface of Mars today.But there is intriguing evidencethat suggests that the early history of Marsthere may have been riversand fast flowing water.Today Mars is very very dry.We believe there&#39;s some water in the polar caps,there are polar caps of North Pole and South Pole.Here are some recent images.This is from Spirit and Opportunity.These images that show at one time,there was very fast flowing water on the surface of Mars.Why is water important? Water is importantbecause if you want life you have to have water.Water is the key ingredientin the evolution, the origin of life on a planet.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:这是南极和Olympus Mons的一些照片，非常相似的特性，冰川。这是固态水。这是火星的冰水。这是我最喜爱的照片，刚刚拍摄于几周前。目前还没有公开发表。这是欧洲宇航局。火星快车号(Mars Express )探测器拍摄的一个环形山，在环形山的中心我们发现了液态水，我们发现了冰。非常有意思的照片。
en:Here is some picture of Antarcticaand a picture of Olympus Mons,very similar features, glaciers.So, this is frozen water.This is ice water on Mars.This is my favorite picture. This was just taken a few weeks ago.It has not been seen publicly.This is European space agencyMars Express, image of a crater on Marsand in the middle of the craterwe have liquid water, we have ice.Very intriguing photograph.
时间： 4:49
zh-cn:目前我们认为火星早期，大概46亿年前，46亿年前火星和地球非常相似。火星曾有河流，火星曾有湖泊，更重要的是火星曾有星球大小的海洋。我们认为海洋曾经位于北半球。这些蓝色区域显示的是约4英里的深度，曾经是火星表面的古海洋区域。火星上海洋大小的水究竟去哪儿了？那么，我们有一个猜想。这是几年前我们通过一个名叫奥德赛号(Odyssey)的绕火星卫星探测到的数据。火星表层下的水，固体化为冰的形式。这里显示的是百分比。如果是蓝色，表示这里比重达16%。内部按重量计算的16%包含冷冻水，或者冰。所以，在表层下存在大量的水。
en:We now believe that in the early history of Mars,which is 4.6 billion years ago,4.6 billion years ago, Mars was very Earth-like.Mars had rivers, Mars had lakes,but more important Mars had planetary-scale oceans.We believe that the oceans were in the northern hemisphere,and this area in blue,which shows a depression of about four miles,was the ancient ocean areaon the surface of Mars.Where did the ocean&#39;s worth of water on Mars go?Well, we have an idea.This is a measurement we obtained a few years agofrom a Mars-orbiting satellite called Odyssey.Sub-surface water on Mars,frozen in the form of ice.And this shows the percent. If it&#39;s a blueish color,it means 16 percent by weight.Sixteen percent, by weight, of the interiorcontains frozen water, or ice.So, there is a lot of water below the surface.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:我认为最有趣并且最令人困惑的测量结果是今年早些时候在科学杂志上发表的。我们现在看到的火星大气层中天然气，甲烷，CH4的百分比。可以看到有三个明显的甲烷区域。为什么甲烷很重要？因为在地球上，几乎所有的，99.9%的甲烷是由生命系统产生的，不是外星人，而是地表下面或者地表的微生物。目前我们拥有证据表明甲烷存在于火星大气中，而这种气体在地球上，是生命起源之初由生命系统产生的。这是三个羽状物A,B1,B2。
en:The most intriguing and puzzling measurement,in my opinion, we&#39;ve obtained of Mars,was released earlier this yearin the magazine Science.And what we&#39;re looking at is the presence of the gas methane,CH4, in the atmosphere of Mars.And you can see there are three distinct regions of methane.Why is methane important?Because on Earth, almost all —99.9 percent — of the methaneis produced by living systems,not little green men, but microscopic lifebelow the surface or at the surface.We now have evidencethat methane is in the atmosphere of Mars,a gas that, on Earth,is biogenic in origin,produced by living systems.These are the three plumes: A, B1, B2.
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:这是它的地形。地质学的研究告诉我们：这些区域是火星上最古老的区域。事实上，地球和火星都有46亿年了。地球上最古老的岩石仅仅36亿年。对于产生10亿年偏差的原因，在我们地质学的理解上是源于板块的构造。地球的地壳曾被反复改变过。我们没有早于前10亿年的地质记录。但相关记录在火星上存在。我们现在看到的这个地形可以追溯到46亿年前，那是地球和火星形成的时候。那是个星期二。（笑声）
en:And this is the terrain it appears over,and we know from geological studiesthat these regions are the oldest regions on Mars.In fact, the Earth and Marsare both 4.6 billion years old.The oldest rock on Earth is only 3.6 billion.The reason there is a billion-year gapin our geological understandingis because of plate tectonics,The crust of the Earth has been recycled.We have no geological record priorfor the first billion years.That record exists on Mars.And this terrain that we&#39;re looking atdates back to 4.6 billion yearswhen Earth and Mars were formed.It was a Tuesday.(Laughter)
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:这个地图显示火星表面我们曾经放置上宇航器的地方。这是海盗一号(Viking I)，海盗二号(Viking II)。这是幸运号(Opportunity)。这是勇气号(Spirit)。这是火星探路者号(Mars Pathfinder)。这是凤凰号(Phoenix)，我们两年前刚发射的。注意，我们所有的漫步者和登陆者都曾去过北半球。那是因为北半球是古海洋盆地区域。那里没有太多环形山。那是因为水保护盆地免受陨石的影响。来吧，我们看看南半球。南半球有著名的撞击坑，还有火山坑。这是Hellas Basin，地质上非常奇特的地方。看看甲烷所处的地方，甲烷在非常粗糙的地形区域。
en:This is a map that showswhere we&#39;ve put our spacecraft on the surface of Mars.Here is Viking I, Viking II.This is Opportunity. This is Spirit.This is Mars Pathfinder. This is Phoenix,we just put two years ago.Notice all of our rovers and all of our landershave gone to the northern hemisphere.That&#39;s because the northern hemisphereis the region of the ancientocean basin.There aren&#39;t many craters.And that&#39;s because the water protected the basinfrom being impacted by asteroids and meteorites.But look in the southern hemisphere.In the southern hemisphere there are impact craters,there are volcanic craters.Here&#39;s Hellas Basin,a very very different place, geologically.Look where the methane is, the methane is in a veryrough terrain area.
时间： 8:34
zh-cn:解开火星上存在的秘密的最好方法是什么？我们10年前提出了这个问题。我们邀请了10位顶级火星科学家到Langley研究中心做客两天。在板子上我们重点提出了目前没有解决的主要问题。我们用了两天来给出这个问题的最佳解答。我们的会议结果是火箭动力机器人飞船，我们称为ARES。它是一个航天区域尺度级环境检测器。这是ARES的模型。这个是5：1的模型。
en:What is the best way to unravelthe mysteries on Mars that exist?We asked this question 10 years ago.We invited 10 of the top Mars scientiststo the Langley Research Center for two days.We addressed on the boardthe major questions that have not been answered.And we spent two days decidinghow to best answer this question.And the result of our meetingwas a robotic rocket-powered airplane we call ARES.It&#39;s an Aerial Regional-scale Environmental Surveyor.There&#39;s a model of ARES here.This is a 20-percent scale model.
时间： 9:19
zh-cn:飞船由兰利研究中心设计。如果说世界上有一个地方能够建造一架能够在火星上飞行的飞机，那就是Langley研究中心，它有近100年的历史，是顶级世界宇航中心我们在表面飞行了大概一英里。我们覆盖了几百英里，以每小时450英里的速度。我们可以为漫步者所不能为做登陆者所不能做。我们可以从山脉，火山，环形山上方飞过。我们从峡谷上上方飞过。我们能够从表面磁场，极冠，地表下隐藏的水上方飞过。并且我们能够在火星上寻找生命。
en:This airplane was designed at the Langley Research Center.If any place in the worldcan build an airplane to fly on Mars,it&#39;s the Langley Research Center,for almost 100 yearsa leading center of aeronautics in the world.We fly about a mile above the surface.We cover hundreds of miles,and we fly about 450 miles an hour.We can do things that rovers can&#39;t doand landers can&#39;t do:We can fly above mountains, volcanoes, impact craters;we fly over valleys;we can fly over surface magnetism,the polar caps, subsurface water;and we can search for life on Mars.
时间： 9:59
zh-cn:但是，同样重要的是，当我们在火星的大气层中飞行时，我们传输旅途的数据，这场地球外的第一次飞机飞行的旅途，并且将那些图像传回地球。我们的目的是鼓舞美国民众，那些正通过纳税为此行动付钱的人们。更重要的是我们将激发下一代的科学家，科技人员，工程师和数学家。那是国家安全和经济复苏的重要领域，确保我们培养出下一代的科学家，工程师，数学家和科技工作者。
en:But, of equal importance,as we fly through the atmosphere of Mars,we transmit that journey,the first flight of an airplane outside of the Earth,we transmit those images back to Earth.And our goal is to inspire the American publicwho is paying for this mission through tax dollars.But more important we willinspire the next generation of scientists,technologists, engineers and mathematicians.And that&#39;s a critical area of national securityand economic vitality, to make surewe produce the next generationof scientists, engineers, mathematicians and technologists.
时间：10:42
zh-cn:这是ARES飞跃火星时的样子。我们事先对它进行编程。我们将飞跃这些甲烷存在的区域。我们将为飞船装备设备，每三分钟对火星大气进行采样。我们将寻找甲烷以及其他由生物系统产生的气体我们将明确定位天然气从何处释放。因为我们能够测量产生甲烷的地区的梯度。这样我们能够指导下次任务在正确的区域着陆。
en:This is what ARES looks likeas it flies over Mars.We preprogram it.We will fly where the methane is.We will have instruments aboard the planethat will sample, every three minutes, the atmosphere of Mars.We will look for methaneas well as other gassesproduced by living systems.We will pinpoint where these gases emanate from,because we can measure the gradient where it comes from,and there, we can direct the next missionto land right in that area.
时间：11:16
zh-cn:我们怎样将飞船运送到火星的呢？用两个字来说，谨慎。问题在于，我们并非驾驶它去火星，而是将它放入宇宙飞船，然后发射到火星。宇宙飞船的最大直径是九英尺。ARES翼展21英尺，17英尺长。那么我们怎么把它运到火星？我们把它折叠，然后放入宇宙飞船。我们将它放入叫做减速伞的一个东西中。这就是我们的办法。我们有一段视频，可以表现这个过程。
en:How do we transport an airplane to Mars?In two words, very carefully.The problem is we don&#39;t fly it to Mars,we put it in a spacecraftand we send it to Mars.The problem is the spacecraft&#39;slargest diameter is nine feet;ARES is 21-foot wingspan, 17 feet long.How do we get it to Mars?We fold it,and we transport it in a spacecraft.And we have it in something called an aeroshell.This is how we do it.And we have a little video that describes the sequence.
时间：11:58
zh-cn:视频：Green board. 5,4,3,2,1.主引擎启动。起飞。
en:Video: Seven, six. Green board. Five, four, three, two, one.Main engine start, and liftoff.
时间：12:16
zh-cn:Joel Levine：福罗里达州肯尼迪航天中心报告。宇宙飞船将花费9个月才能到达火星。它进入火星大气层。大量热量。摩擦发热。时速为每小时1万8千英里。减速伞打开，用来减速。隔热瓦脱落。飞船首次进入大气层。展开。火箭引擎启动。
en:Joel Levine: This is a launch from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.This is the spacecraft taking nine monthsto get to Mars.It enters the atmosphere of Mars.A lot of heating,frictional heating. It&#39;s going 18 thousand miles an hour.A parachute opens up to slow it down.The thermal tiles fall off.The airplane is exposed to the atmosphere for the first time.It unfolds.The rocket engine begins.
时间：13:01
zh-cn:我们深信经过一小时飞行我们将重新书写教科书上关于火星的部分通过记录火星大气层的高精度测量数据，在生物区寻找天然气，在火山区寻找气体，研究火星表面，研究表面的磁场，那些都是目前我们未知的，正如许多其他的区域。
en:We believe that in a one-hour flightwe can rewrite the textbook on Marsby making high-resolution measurements of the atmosphere,looking for gases of biogenic origin,looking for gases of volcanic origin,studying the surface, studying the magnetismon the surface, which we don&#39;t understand,as well as about a dozen other areas.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:熟能生巧。为什么我们说我们可以完成这项计划呢？因为我们已经测试了ARES模型，八年中在NASA Langley 研究中心的十几个风洞的半数中测试了数个模型，在模拟火星条件下。并且，同样重要的是我们在地球大气层中测试了ARES，在海拔一百万英尺的地方，相当于火星上大气浓度和压力，这个将来真正进行飞行的环境。一百万英尺，如果你乘坐飞机飞到洛杉矶你是在3万7千英尺。我们的测试是在1百万英尺。
en:Practice makes perfect.How do we know we can do it?Because we have tested ARES model,several models in a half a dozen wind tunnelsat the NASA Langley Research Center for eight years,under Mars conditions.And, of equal importanceis, we test ARES in the Earth&#39;s atmosphere,at 100,000 feet,which is comparable to the density and pressureof the atmosphere on Mars where we&#39;ll fly.Now, 100,000 feet, if you fly cross-country to Los Angeles,you fly 37,000 feet.We do our tests at 100,000 feet.
时间：14:03
zh-cn:我将给你们展示我们的测试。这是½大小的模型。这是高海拔氦气气球。这是在俄勒冈州Tilamook。我们把折叠起来的飞船放到气球上。升到那个地方需要大概三个小时。在一百零三万英尺高度根据指令释放它。展开飞船，一切进行得很完美。我们完成了高海拔和低海拔测试，全是为了使这项技术完美。
en:And I want to show you one of our tests.This is a half-scale model.This is a high-altitude helium balloon.This is over Tilamook, Oregon.We put the folded airplane on the balloon —it took about three hours to get up there —and then we released it on commandat 103,000 feet,and we deploy the airplane and everything works perfectly.And we&#39;ve donehigh-altitude and low-altitude tests,just to perfect this technique.
时间：14:36
zh-cn:我们整装待发。这里有一个比例模型。不过我们有一个全比例模型保存在NASA兰利研究中心我们整装待发，目前所需要的只有NASA总部的支票（笑声）来支付花销。我打算捐献今天演讲的酬劳来完成这项任务。事实上在这项计划上每个人都没有任何酬劳。我们是ARES团队。我们拥有约150位科学家和工程师，我们与 火箭推进实验室戈达德宇宙飞行中心，Ames研究中心和6所相关大学和一些企业一起开发这个计划。
en:We&#39;re ready to go.I have a scale model here.But we have a full-scale modelin storage at the NASA Langley Research Center.We&#39;re ready to go. All we need is a check from NASA headquarters(Laughter)to cover the costs.I&#39;m prepared to donate my honorarium for today&#39;s talkfor this mission.There&#39;s actually no honorarium for anyone for this thing.This is the ARES team;we have about 150 scientists, engineers;where we&#39;re working with Jet Propulsion Laboratory,Goddard Space Flight Center,Ames Research Center and half a dozen major universitiesand corporations in developing this.
时间：15:17
zh-cn:这项计划是巨大的付出。这都在NASA Langley 研究中心内。我总结如下：离此处不远，就在北卡罗莱纳州Kittyhawk大街，略早于100年前历史被创造于当我们拥有了地球上第一架自有动力飞行的飞机时。时至今日我们即将获得突破去制造第一架飞行于地球大气层之外的飞机。我们准备在火星上起飞这架飞机，重写教科书的关于火星章节。如果你想知道更多信息，我们的网站描述了这个令人激动而迷人的任务，还有我们为什么想进行这个项目。非常感谢。（掌声）
en:It&#39;s a large effort. It&#39;s all at NASA Langley Research Center.And let me conclude by sayingnot too far from here,right down the road in Kittyhawk, North Carolina,a little more than 100 years agohistory was madewhen we had the first powered flight of an airplane on Earth.We are on the verge right nowto make the first flight of an airplaneoutside the Earth&#39;s atmosphere.We are prepared to fly this on Mars,rewrite the textbook about Mars.If you&#39;re interested in more information,we have a website that describes this excitingand intriguing mission, and why we want to do it.Thank you very much.(Applause)
