时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们生活在一个由人类支配的星球上,我们将前所未有的压力压在地球的整个系统上｡这有一个坏消息,但也许会让你吃惊，这也算是一个好消息｡感谢科技进步,我们是第一代知晓我们可能正在侵蚀着地球的稳定性和功能性来维系人类自身发展。还有一个好消息，因为我们面临的风险如此之大，以前的办法已经没有用了。实际上，我们处在新的阶段必须采取变革的阶段，为创新得打开一扇窗，迎接新想法和新模式。这是一次人类关于全球可持续发展面临挑战的科学之旅。
en:We live on a human-dominated planet,putting unprecedented pressureon the systems on Earth.This is bad news, but perhaps surprising to you,it&#39;s also part of the good news.We&#39;re the first generation — thanks to science —to be informed that we may beundermining the stability and the abilityof planet Earthto support human development as we know it.It&#39;s also good news, because the planetary risks we&#39;re facingare so large,that business as usual is not an option.In fact, we&#39;re in a phasewhere transformative change is necessary,which opens the window for innovation,for new ideas and new paradigms.This is a scientific journey on the challenges facing humanityin the global phase of sustainability.
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:在这趟旅途中，除了你们，我希望带上一个好朋友，一位利益相关者但常常被忽视，当我们处理沟通环境问题时，一个拒绝妥协的利益相关者它就是一颗叫做地球的星球。我原本想把她带上舞台，让她亲眼目睹这非凡的旅途，同时谨提醒我们在过去1万年我们所经历过的恩泽时代。这是一个持续了十万年的生机勃勃的星球。这是一个非常重要的时期。这几乎持续了我们进化成为现代人类一半的时间。我们也大致拥有同样能力来创造如大家所知发展了文明。这是目前星球的状况。
en:On this journey, I&#39;d like to bring, apart from yourselves,a good friend,a stakeholder, who&#39;s always absentwhen we deal with the negotiations on environmental issues,a stakeholder who refuses to compromise —planet Earth.So I thought I&#39;d bring her with me today on stage,to have her as a witnessof a remarkable journey,which humbly reminds usof the period of grace we&#39;ve hadover the past 10,000 years.This is the living conditions on the planet over the last 100,000 years.It&#39;s a very important period —it&#39;s roughly half the period when we&#39;ve been fully modern humans on the planet.We&#39;ve had the same, roughly, abilitiesthat developed civilizations as we know it.This is the environmental conditions on the planet.
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:在这我们用温度变化作为一个参考物。上下波动很大。这是八万年前的危机，我们离开非洲，我们殖民澳洲是在六万年后的另一次危机中，我们从亚洲来到欧洲是在四万年前的危机中，我们在那时进入了相当稳定的全新时代，也是地球史上前所未有的时代，我们知道，可以维系人类发展的时代。在这1千年发展中，我们放弃了狩猎采集的模式。我们从几千万人口发展到如今的70亿人口，美索不达米亚文化：那时我们发明了农业，我们驯化动物和植物。然后是罗马文明，希腊文明等等众所周知的文明。我们目前知道地球是唯一适合人类生存发展文明的地方。
en:Here, used as a proxy, temperature variability.It was a jumpy ride. 80,000 years back in a crisis,we leave Africa, we colonize Australiain another crisis, 60,000 years back,we leave Asia for Europein another crisis, 40,000 years back,and then we enterthe remarkably stable Holocene phase,the only period in the whole history of the planet,that we know of, that can support human development.A thousand years into this period,we abandon our hunting and gathering patterns.We go from a couple of million peopleto the seven billion people we are today.The Mesopotamian culture: we invent agriculture,we domesticate animals and plants.You have the Roman, the Greek and the story as you know it.The only phase, as we know itthat can support humanity.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:麻烦的是在这个可怜的星球，我们四面楚歌，这第一面，当然是人口增长。现在不仅是数字上的增长。不只是70亿到90亿人口这个事实，还涉及到一个公平性的问题。对地球环境产生很大影响的往往是富裕的少数人，在18世纪的中期，百分之二十的人投身于工业革命中。这星球的大多数国家渴望发展，有权发展，但这些国家大多在追求一种地球无法承受的生活方式，这是一种巨大的压力。
en:The trouble is we&#39;re putting a quadruple sqeezeon this poor planet,a quadruple sqeeze, which, as its first squeeze,has population growth of course.Now, this is not only about numbers;this is not only about the fact that we&#39;re seven billion peoplecommitted to nine billion people, it&#39;s an equity issue as well.The majority of the environmental impacts on the planethave been caused by the rich minority,the 20 percent that jumped onto the industrial bandwagonin the mid-18th century.The majority of the planet,aspiring for development, having the right for development,are in large aspiring for an unsustainable lifestyle,a momentous pressure.
时间： 2:55
zh-cn:给地球的第二个压力，当然是气候议程，一个大议题，往往科学影响着政策有观点认为将温室气体含量稳定在450ppm从而避免温度升高超过2度，避免我们失去南极西部的冰盖层融化，水平面将升高6米的风险，避免格陵兰冰盖融化的风险，这会造成海平面再上升7米。现在，你们会指望这个强大的，能承受强压力的星球来抵御气候压力，但是，不幸的是，还有第三种压力是生态系统的衰落。在过去50年中，我们从没有见过生态系统在这颗星球上的作用和影响如此急剧的衰落，他们当中有种能力是长期调整影响森林，土地和生物多样性的气候。
en:The second pressure on the planet is, of course the climate agenda —the big issue — where the policy interpretation of scienceis that it would be enoughto stabilize greenhouse gases at 450 ppmto avoid average temperaturesexceeding two degrees,to avoid the risk that we may be destabilizingthe West Antarctic Ice Sheet,holding six meters — level rising,the risk of destabilizing the Greenland Ice Sheet,holding another seven meters — sea level rising.Now, you would have wished the climate pressureto hit a strong planet, a resilient planet,but unfortunately, the third pressureis the ecosystem decline.Never have we seen, in the past 50 years,such a sharp declineof ecosystem functions and services on the planet,one of them being the ability to regulate climate on the long term,in our forests, land and biodiversity.
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:第四种压力是不同性，概念和证据那就是我们必须放弃我们老套的模式，那就是可以这么说，在我们线性系统旧模式中，生态系统表现是线性的，是可以预见的，是可控制的，那就是，实际上，不同性就是共同性，随着系统迅速地，突然地往往也是不可逆转的破坏。亲爱的朋友们，这是对地球大规模地施加压力。我们可能，实际上，已经进入了一个新的地质时代，人类世，指的是人类是在行星级别中造成变化的主要驱动。
en:The forth pressure is surprise,the notion and the evidencethat we need to abandon our old paradigm,that ecosystems behave linearly, predictably,controllably in our — so to say — linear systems,and that in fact, surprise is universal,as systems tip over very rapidly, abruptlyand often irreversibly.This, dear friends, poses a human pressure on the planetof momentous scale.We may, in fact, have entered a new geological era —the Anthropocene,where humans are the predominant driver of changeat a planetary level.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:现在，作为一名科学家，有什么证据呢？证据是，不幸的是，太多了。不仅仅是二氧化碳极大地加速了变化的进程。你几乎可以把任何参数跟人类相关的任何参数—一氧化二氮，甲烷，砍伐森林，过度捕捞，土地退化，物种的灭绝—它们都证明了过去的200年中同一种模式。与此同时，在50年代中期，第二次世界大战后的10年，非常清楚的证明了在50年代中期伟大的人类事业开始加速提高。你看，第一次，在全球范围内的一个印记。我可以告诉你，当你开始研究这每一个学科，你会发现一些非常重要的东西，结果是我们可能已经到达了必须改变曲线走向程度，在地球上整个人类的历史中，我们可能已经进入了最富有挑战性和刺激性的时代,一个我们必须改变曲线走向的时代。
en:Now, as a scientist,what&#39;s the evidence for this?Well, the evidence is,unfortunately, ample.It&#39;s not only carbon dioxidethat has this hockey stick pattern of accelerated change.You can take virtually any parameterthat matters for human well-being —nitrous oxide, methane,deforestation, overfishingland degredation, loss of species —they all show the same patternover the past 200 years.Simultaneously, they branch off in the mid-50s,10 years after the Second World War,showing very clearly that the great acceleration of the human enterprisestarts in the mid-50s.You see, for the first time, an imprint on the global level.And I can tell you,you enter the disciplinary research in each of these,you find something remarkably important,the conclusion that we may have come to the pointwhere we have to bend the curves,that we may have entered the most challenging and exciting decadein the history humanity on the planet,the decade when we have to bend the curves.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:现在，仿佛这还不够—仅仅是改变曲线走向和了解到这颗星球上的急剧增加的压力—我们也要意识到一个事实那就是系统有多种稳定状态，在曲线上由一个个槛区分开来—我在这个用球杯图来表示，杯子的深度代表了系统的适应能力。现在，系统逐渐地—受到气候变化，侵蚀，生物多样性丧失的压力—于是杯子的深度开始减少，也就是系统适应能力降低，但似乎是健康的也似乎是突然间，经过一个槛后，又跌落到某一界限下了。哦。抱歉。改变了原有状态确实滑落到一个出乎意料的状态，从那里开始，新的生物物理逻辑开始运作，新的物种开始出现，系统再次平衡。
en:Now, as if this was not enough —to just bend the curves and understanding the accelerated pressure on the planet —we also have to recognize the factthat systems do have multiple stable states,separated by thresholds — illustrated here by this ball and cup diagram,where the depth of the cup is the resilience of the system.Now, the system may gradually —under pressure of climate change,erosion, biodiversity loss —lose the depth of the cup, the resilience,but appear to be healthyand appear to suddenly, under a threshold,be tipping over. Upff.Sorry. Changing stateand literally ending upin an undesired situation,where new biophysical logic takes over,new species take over, and the system gets locked.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:我们有证据吗？是的，珊瑚礁系统。生物的多样，低养份，硬珊瑚系统在过渡捕捞，不可持续的旅游业，气候变化等多重压力下。系统的崩溃一触即发，失去了它的适应能力，从而软珊瑚取而代之，留给我们一个我们出乎意料的系统一个不能维系经济和社会发展的系统。北极，一个美丽的生态系统，我们地球上一个有调节作用的生物群落受到气候变化的一次次冲击，看上去似乎还可以。没有科学家能够预测在2007年突然间，有什么能够跨越这个界限槛。生态系统突然间，非常出人意料地，失去了百分之三十到四十的夏季冰覆盖率。当然，具有戏剧效果的是，当生态系统发生了变化，其中的逻辑也跟着变化。这可能锁定了一种不希望的状态，因为它改变了颜色，吸收了更多的能量，系统可能陷入困境。我认为，对于人类来说最大的一面红旗警示是我们处在一个岌岌可危的时期。顺便说一下，你知道在那里的唯一一个红色旗是一架从一个不知名国家来的潜水艇在北极底部插上一面红旗从而得以控制石油资源。
en:Do we have evidence of this? Yes, coral reef systems.Biodiverse, low-nutrient, hard coral systemsunder multiple pressures of overfishing,unsustainable tourism, climate change.A trigger and the system tips over,loses its resilience,soft corals take over,and we get undesired systemsthat cannot support economic and social development.The Arctic — a beautiful system —a regulating biome at the planetary level,taking the knock after knock on climate change,appearing to be in a good state.No scientist could predict that in 2007,suddenly, what could be crossing a threshold.The system suddenly, very surprisingly, loses 30 to 40 percentof its summer ice cover.And the drama is, of course, thatwhen the system does this, the logic may change.It may get locked in an undesired state,because it changes color, absorbs more energy,and the system may get stuck.In my mind, the largest red flag warning for humanitythat we are in a precarious situation.As a sideline, you know that the only red flag that popped up herewas a submarine from an unnamed countrythat planted a red flag at the bottom of the Arcticto be able to control the oil resources.
时间： 7:08
zh-cn:现在，如果我们有证据，我们现在有了，湿地，森林，热带雨林，不是按照线性方式运作。全世界大约有30名科学家聚在一起，第一次问了一个问题，“我们要把这星球陷入困境吗？”所以，我们必须问自己：我们正在威胁这个非常稳定的全新世界吗？我们真的要将我们自己置于一个困境？我们即将接近下一个界限而可能引向有害的，我们极不希望看到的，好比现在灾难性的为人类发展而做的改变。要知道，你并不希望站在那里。实际上，根本不允许你站在那里那是这位绅士站着的地方，在那个槛，湿滑的水冒着泡。实际上，在这个界限的高处有个护栏，在危险区之上。这是个新的模式，根据我们过去的两、三年收集的信息，我们发现我们旧的模式仅仅是分析、引用和预测影响未来的参数，目标是减小环境的冲击，那是过去式。
en:Now, if we have evidence, which we now have,that wetlands, forests,[unclear] monsoon system, the rainforests,behave in this nonlinear way.30 or so scientists around the worldgathered and asked a question for the first time,&quot;Do we have to put the planet into the the pot?&quot;So we have to ask ourselves:are we threatening this extraordinarily stable Holocene state?Are we in fact putting ourselves in a situationwhere we&#39;re coming too closeto thresholds that could leadto deleterious and very undesired,if now catastrophic, changefor human development?You know, you don&#39;t want to stand there.In fact, you&#39;re not even allowed to standwhere this gentleman is standing,at the foaming, slippery waters at the threshold.In fact, there&#39;s a fencequite upstream of this threshold,beyond which you are in a danger zone.And this is the new paradigm,which we gathered two, three years back,recognizing that our old paradigmof just analyzing and pushing and predictingparameters into the future,aiming at minimalizing environmental impacts, is of the past.
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:现在，我们问我们自己：哪个是最大的环境进程我们必须要管的以保证我们自己在全新世的安全？我们甚至可以感谢地球系统科学的重大发展，发现这些一个个槛，我们所期望的非线性变化的界限点？我们甚至能定义地球界限，一个护栏，通过这些，我们人类就可以有个安全的工作空间吗？在2009年底，“自然”杂志上发表的这个项目，经过数年的分析，终于得出最后的提议，那就是我们只能够找到九个地球界限在积极领导下，可能允许我们自己有个安全的工作空间。这包括了，当然的，气候。你可能觉得惊奇，不仅仅是气候。但是，它告诉了我们，我们是同这个星球上众多的生态系统息息相关的，特别是其中的三大系统，气候变化，臭氧层的削弱和海洋酸化是这三大系统，从古地球的历史记录里已经有大量的科学证据。
en:Now we to ask ourselves:which are the large environmental processesthat we have to be stewards ofto keep ourselves safe in the Holocene?And could we even,thanks to major advancements in Earth systems science,identify the thresholds,the points where we may expect nonlinear change?And could we even definea planetary boundary, a fence,within which we then have a safe operating space for humanity?This work, which was published in &quot;Nature,&quot;late 2009,after a number of years of analysis,led to the final propositionthat we can only findnine planetary boundarieswith which, under active stewardship,would allow ourselves to have a safe operating space.These include, of course, climate.It may surprise you that it&#39;s not only climate.But it shows that we are interconnected, among many systems on the planet,with the three big systems, climate change,stratospheric ozone depletion and ocean acidificationbeing the three big systems,where the scientific evidence of large-scale thresholdsin the paleo-record of the history of the planet.
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:但是，我们也包括，我们所谓的，慢性变量，这些系统，在表面下，调节和缓冲着地球的适应能力—地球上氮磷大循环的干扰，土地使用的变更，物种多样性的降低率淡水的使用，有调节地球上的生物量，碳汇，多样性的作用。还有两个我们无法量化的参数—空气污染，包括温室气体和空气污染的硫酸盐和硝酸盐，以及化学污染。加在一起，这些综合成在人类世指导人类发展，理解地球上的复杂的自我调节系统。事实是，大多数证据指出这九大界限或许像三剑客一样—“我为人人，人人为我。”人们滥伐森林，人们超越了土地的界限，人们破坏了气候系统保持稳定的能力。有戏剧效果的是，实际上，气候的挑战可能是很简单的，如果你考虑可持续发展的整体性的挑战。
en:But we also include, what we call, the slow variables,the systems that, under the hood,regulate and buffer the capacity of the resilience of the planet —the interference of the big nitrogen and phosphorus cycles on the planet,land use change, rate of biodiversity loss,freshwater use,functions which regulatebiomass on the planet, carbon sequestration, diversity.And then we have two parameters which we were not able to quantify —air pollution,including warming gases and air-polluting sulfates and nitrates,but also chemical pollution.Together, these form an integrated wholefor guiding human development in the Anthropocene,understanding that the planetis a complex self-regulating system.In fact, most evidence indicatesthat these nine may behave as three Musketeers,&quot;One for all. All for one.&quot;You degrade forests, you go beyond the boundary on land,you undermine the ability of the climate systemto stay stable.The drama here is, in fact, thatit may show that the climate challengeis the easy one,if you consider the whole challengeof sustainable development.
时间：10:20
zh-cn:现在，这个对于人类发展来说等同于大爆炸在地球界限内的安全工作空间。按照这一分析所建议的，你看到的这条黑线是安全工作空间，量化了的界限。在中间的黄点是我们的开始点，前工业化点，我们在安全工作空间里非常地安全。50年代，我们开始发散。60年代通过绿色革命和固定大气中的氮的哈柏法—你知道，人类今天从大气中提取氮的含量远远大于整个生物圈在自然情况下所提取的。我们没有越过气候界限直到90年代早期，实际上，是在里约热内卢召开的地球峰会之后。今天，我们的处境是我们估计我们已经越过三个界限，物种多样性的降低率，这是在人类历史上的第六个灭绝时期—其中的一个是恐龙灭绝—氮气和气候变化。但是，我们在其它界限上还有些空间，但是我们接近土地水源，磷和海洋的速度实在是太快了。但这给了我们一个新的模式来指导人类，为我们运转过度的工业引擎开启一个新曙光，我们原先仅仅是行驶在一条黑暗笔直的公路上。
en:Now this is the Big Bang equivalent then of human developmentwithin the safe operating space of the planetary boundaries.What you see here in black line is the safe operating space,the quantified boundaries,as suggested by this analysis.The yellow dot in the middle here is our starting point,the pre-industrial point,where we&#39;re very safely in the safe operating space.In the &#39;50s, we start branching out.In the &#39;60s already, through the green revolutionand the Haber-Bosch processof fixing nitrogen from the atmosphere —you know, human&#39;s today take out more nitrogen from the atmospherethan the whole biosphere does naturally as a whole.We don&#39;t transgress the climate boundary until the early &#39;90s,actually, right after Rio.And today, we are in a situation where we estimatethat we&#39;ve transgressed three boundaries,the rate of biodiversity loss,which is the sixth extinction period in the history of humanity —one of them being the extinctions of the dinosaurs —nitrogen and climate change.But we still have some degrees of freedom on the others,but we are approaching faston land, water, phosphorus and oceans.But this gives a new paradigmto guide humanity,to put the light on our, so faroverpowered industrial vehicle,which operates as ifwe&#39;re only on a dark, straight highway.
时间：11:33
zh-cn:现在的问题是：有多黑暗？可持续发展会成为乌托邦么？没有科学能够给与答案。实际上，大量的科学表明我们能够完成这次变革，我们有能力进入一个新的，创新性的，转型的，跨尺度的，新时期。当然，有戏剧效果的是，地球上的200多个国家都同时朝着同一个方向开始绿色行动。但是这从根本上改变了我们政府和管理的模式，从现在的线性模式，命令和控制性的思考，关注有效性和优化性朝着一个更加灵活的，一个更加能适应的模式，我们意识到无论社会和环境体系中的繁冗，都是能够顺应瞬息万变的全球化改变的关键。我们要在持续性上投资，在社交系统和生态系统能够承受巨大变动，仍然保持我们所希望的适应力曲线。我们要在改革能力上投资，将危机化为创新，在危机后再次崛起的能力，当然还有适应不可避免的变化的能力。这是一个新的模式。我们不在任何政府层面上完成。
en:Now the question then is:how gloomy is this?Is then sustainable development utopia?Well, there&#39;s no science to suggest.In fact, there is ample scienceto indicate that we can do this transformative change,that we have the abilityto now move into a new innovative,a transformative gear,across scales.The drama is, of course,is that 200 countries on this planethave to simultaneously start movingin the same direction.But it changes fundamentally our governance and management paradigm,from the current linear,command and control thinking,looking at efficiencies and optimizationtowards a much more flexible,a much more adaptive approach,where we recognize that redundancy,both in social and environmental systems,is key to be able to dealwith a turbulent era of global change.We have to invest in persistence,in the ability of social systems and ecological systemsto withstand shocks and still remain in that desired cup.We have to invest in transformations capability,moving from crisis into innovationand the ability to rise after a crisis,and of course to adapt to unavoidable change.This is a new paradigm.We&#39;re not doing that at any scale on governance.
时间：12:50
zh-cn:那这会发生么？我们有在地方级别上应用这种思想变革的成功的例子么？有的。实际上我们有，这份成功的名单正在变得更长。好消息是，例如，在拉丁美洲，在那里，50年代和60年代的以犁耕为基础的农业系统基本上这样的农业系统是没有出路的，越来越低的产量，降解有机物和在巴拉圭，乌拉圭和一些国家，巴西的民生基本问题，这导致农民和科学家们合作一起创新，进入一个将免耕系统和覆盖耕作的农业革命，同时还有适应地方上需要的科技，今天，比如，在一些国家，已经在覆盖耕作，免耕区域取得了巨大的增长，不仅仅是生产出更多的粮食，而且吸收了多余的碳，降低排放。
en:But is it happening anywhere?Do we have any examples of successon this mind shift being applied at the local level?Well, yes, in fact we doand the list can start becoming longer and longer.There&#39;s good news here,for example, from Latin America,where plow-based farming systemsof the &#39;50s and &#39;60sled farming basically to a dead-end,with lower and lower yields, degrading the organic matterand fundamental problems at the livelihood levelsin Paraguay, Uruguay and a number of countries, Brazil,leading to innovation and entrepreneurshipamong farmers in partnership with scientistsinto an agricultural revolution of zero tillage systemscombined with mulch farmingwith locally adapted technologies,which today, for example, in some countries,have led to a tremendous increasein area under mulch, zero till farmingwhich, not only produces more food,but also sequesters carbon.
时间：13:45
zh-cn:澳大利亚大堡礁是另一个成功故事。从旅游经营者，渔夫们，澳大利亚大堡礁管理局和科学家们所意识到的，在现行的管理制度下，大堡礁注定要灭亡的。全球变化，美化文化，过度捕捞和不可持续的旅游业，所有这一切将这个系统陷入危机中。但是创新和新观念带来了机会，今天已经完成了新的管理机制来建立应急能力，认识到繁冗性，并在综合方面投资整个系统，这样允许生态系统有更多的繁复之处。
en:The Australian Great Barrier Reef is another success story.Under the realization from tourist operators,fishermen,the Australian Great Barrier Reef Authority and scientiststhat the Great Barrier Reef is doomedunder the current governance regime.Global change, beautification rack culture,overfishing and unsustainable tourism,all together placing this systemin the realization of crisis.But the window of opportunity was innovation and new mindset,which today has led to a completely new governance strategyto build resilience,acknowledge redundancyand invest in the whole system as an integrated whole,and then allow for much more redundancy in the system.
时间：14:23
zh-cn:我所来自的国家瑞典，有另外一个例子，在瑞典南部，湿地被看做是跟很多国家一样—像洪水污染泛滥一样使周围的城市地区厌恶。但是又一次的危机，新的合作，地方上的执行者们，将这些变成可持续城市计划的一个关键组成部分。危机变成了机会。
en:Sweden, the country I come from, has other examples,where wetlands in southern Sweden were seen as —as in many countries — as flood-prone polluted nuisancein the peri-urban regions.But again, a crisis, new partnerships,actors locally, transforming theseinto a key componentof sustainable urban planning.So crisis leading into opportunities.
时间：14:47
zh-cn:好，那未来呢？当然，未来是个巨大的挑战，要供给全世界90亿人。除了绿色革命我们不需要其它的什么，地球界限显示农业已经从一个温室气体排放器到接收器。我们现今的土地正发挥这样的作用。我们不能再扩张了，因为已经侵蚀到地球界限了。我们不能再像我们今天这样继续使用水了，世界上百分之25的河流都无法流向大海。我们需要一个变革。有趣的是，根据我的研究和其他人在非洲的研究，比如，我们讲了即便是最最宝贵的小型降雨耕作系统，有了创新和补充灌溉也能解决干旱和旱灾，可持续性卫生系统将养分从厕所循环到农田，创新的耕作系统，我们可以在现有的农田上得到三倍，四倍的产量。
en:Now, what about the future?Well, the future, of course, has one massive challenge,which is feeding a world of nine billion people.We need nothing less than a new green revolution,and the planet boundaries showsthat agriculture has to go from a source of greenhouse gases to a sink.It has to basically do this on current land.We cannot expand anymore,because it erodes the planetary boundaries.We cannot continue consuming water as we do today,with 25 percent of world rivers not even reaching the ocean.And we need a transformation.Well, interestingly, and based on my workand others in Africa, for example,we&#39;ve shown that even the most vulnerable small-scale rainfall farming systems,with innovations and supplementary irrigationto bridge dry spells and droughts,sustainable sanitation systems to close the loop on nutrientsfrom toilets back to farmers&#39; fields,and innovations in tillage systems,we can triple, quadruple, yield levelson current land.
时间：15:39
zh-cn:埃莉诺奥斯特罗姆，最新的诺贝尔经济学奖得主，向全世界展示经验那就是我们能管理好，如果我们在信心上，地方上，以行动为基础的合作伙伴关系上和跨机构的创新体制上投资，与地方上的执行者们一起，能够在大规模上处理全球共有的问题。但是，即便在复杂政治领域，我们也能创新。我们知道我们必须从依赖石油快速转变到低碳经济。我们该怎么办呢？每个人都在讲碳税—这个不会起作用—碳排放收费计划，但是，例如，一个政策措施，对能量系统的电力收购政策，其实这个已经在实施，从中国对其海上发电系统收购，一直到美国，你保证了在可再生能源投资的收购价格，然后能给穷人补贴电费。让人们摆脱贫穷。人们在能源方面解决了气候问题，与此同时，刺激了创新—在全球范围内迅速出现了类似的例子。
en:Elinor Ostrom,the latest Nobel laureate of economics,clearly shows empirically across the worldthat we can govern the commonsif we invest in trust,local, action-based partnershipsand cross-scale institutional innovations,where local actors,together, can deal with the global commonsat a large scale.But even on the hard policy area we have innovations.We know that we have to move from our fossil dependencevery quickly into a low-carbon economy in record time.And what shall we do?Everybody talks about carbon taxes — it won&#39;t work — emission schemes,but for example, one policy measure,feed-in tariffs on the energy system,which is already applied,from China doing it on offshore wind systems,all the way to the U.S.where you give the guaranteed price for investment in renewable energy,but you can subsidize electricity to poor people.You get people out of poverty.You solve the climate issue with regards to the energy sector,while at the same time, stimulating innovation —examples of things that can be out scaled quicklyat the planetary level.
时间：16:43
zh-cn:这样，毫无疑问地，机会出现了，我们可以列举出很多，很多全球上变革机会的例子。所有这一切的关键，红色警示意味观念要改变，改变了我们只是单一地将我们自己推进一个黑暗的未来的状况，而是展望我们的未来，我们说，“什么是地球的绿色竞技场呢？什么是我们能够安全生活的地球边界？”正是危机背后推动的创新。但是，当然的，它清楚地显示出渐进式的变化是不可行的。
en:So there is — no doubt — opportunity here,and we can list many, many examplesof transformative opportunities around the planet.The key though in all of these,the red thread,is the shift in mindset,moving away from a situation where we simply are pushing ourselvesinto a dark future,where we instead backcast our future,and we say, &quot;What is the playing field on the planet?What are the planetary boundarieswithin which we can safely operate?&quot;and then backtrack innovations within that.But of course, the drama is, it clearly showsthat incremental change is not an option.
时间：17:18
zh-cn:这是科学证据。他们算是说了些重要的新闻，那就是我们正面临着自工业化以来的最大的变革发展。事实上，我们在今后的40年中应该做的更戏剧化，也更加激动人心相比当初我们刚面对今天这个情况时所做的。现在，科学指出，是的，在安全可操作区域，我们能实现一个繁荣的未来理想，如果我们同时行动，在全球层面上的合作，从地方到全球，在一个有限的地球建立一种变革的适应性。
en:So, there is scientific evidence.They sort of say the harsh news,that we are facing the largesttransformative developmentsince the industrialization.In fact, what we have to do over the next 40 yearsis much more dramatic and more excitingthan what we did when we moved intothe situation we&#39;re in today.Now, science indicates that,yes, we can achieve a prosperous futurewithin the safe operating space,if we move simultaneously,collaborating on a global level, from local to global scale,in transformative options, which build resilience on a finite planet.
时间：17:52
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:54
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
