时间： 0:11
zh-cn:13万亿的财富在过去的两年间里蒸发殆尽。我们质疑过资本主义的未来。我们也对金融业产生过怀疑。我们检视我们的政府的疏忽。我们对未来的方向感到迷茫。然而，与此同时，危机的到来不仅仅意味着美国正处在历史上的关键时刻，对消费者而言，更是一种机遇。他们能够真正的掌握主动权，并且带领我们进入一个新的发展轨道。
en:Thirteen trillion dollars in wealthhas evaporated over the course of the last two years.We&#39;ve questioned the future of capitalism.We&#39;ve questioned the financial industry.We&#39;ve looked at our government oversight.We&#39;ve questioned where we&#39;re going.And yet, at the same time, this very well may bea seminal moment in American history,an opportunity for the consumerto actually take control and guide usto a new trajectory in America.
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:我们把它称之为一场“大松绑“。其实这本身是一个非常简单的理念，它描述了这样一个事实，即消费者正从过去焦虑不安的状态向付诸行动逐渐发生转变。占美国国内生产总值72%的消费群体事实上已经开始行动了，正如银行和企业所采取的一系列“去杠杆化”措施，在日常生活中，消费者们让自己从负债和风险中解脱出来，继续前行。
en:I&#39;m calling this The Great Unwind.And the idea is a simple, simple idea,which is the fact that the consumerhas moved from a state of anxiety to action.Consumers who represent 72 percentof the GDP of America have actually started,just like banks and just like businesses,to de-leverage, to unwind their leverage,in daily life, to remove themselvesfrom the liability and riskthat presents itself as we move forward.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:因此，为了便于理解，我想要强调，消费者们并没有退缩，他们被赋予了权力。为了更清楚的阐明我的观点，让我们往回走看看过去的一年半时间里发生了什么。如果你也同样经历了这一切的话，我下面将要讲述的便是最简单的摘要。可以吗？（笑声）失业率~上升，房产价格~下降，资本市场~猛跌商品价格这样变化。
en:So, to understand this — and I&#39;m going to stress this —it&#39;s not about the consumer being in retreat.The consumer is empowered.In order to understand this, we&#39;re going to step back and looka little bit at what&#39;s happened over the course of the last year and a half.So, if you&#39;ve been gone, this is the easy CliffsNoteson what&#39;s happened in the economy. Okay?(Laughter)Unemployment up. Housing values down. Equity markets down.Commodity prices are like this.
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:如果你是你个负责预算的母亲，去年夏天的汽油价格是每桶150美元，而现在则是介于50到70美元之间，你还打算去度假吗？你会怎样买？你的家庭策略是什么？政府援助会起作用吗？我们面临的问题有国债，底特律，货币估价，医疗保健等等。你把他们放在一起，混合成一碗法式鱼肉汤。另外，你还拥有消费者信心，而它基本就是一个滴答作响的定时炸弹。
en:If you&#39;re a mom trying to manage a budget,and oil was 150 dollars a barrel last summer,and it&#39;s somewhere between 50 and 70,do you plan vacations? How do you buy?What is your strategy in your household?Will the bailout work? We have national debt, Detroit,currency valuations, healthcare, all these issues facing us.You put them all together, you mix them up in a bouillabaisse,and you have consumer confidence that&#39;s basically a ticking time-bomb.
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:其实我们应该回头看看是什么导致了这场危机；因为，在日常生活中，所有消费者实际上都极大程度上促成了这一问题的产生。这就是我称之为 50/20悖论 的东西。我们花费了50年来达到年储蓄率接近10%的水平。50年。你知道这个地方是啥时候吗？这儿是二战期间。你知道为什么储蓄如此高吗？因为没有任何东西可以买，除非你想买铆钉。对吗？
en:In fact, let&#39;s go back and look at what caused this crisis,because the consumer, all of us, in our daily lives,actually contributed a large part to the problem.This is something I call the 50-20 paradox.It took us 50 yearsto reach annual savings ratingsof almost 10 percent. 50 years.Do you know what this was right here?This was World War II. Do you know why savings was so high?There was nothing to buy, unless you wanted to buy some rivets. Right?
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:那么，过去20年发生了什么使得储蓄率从10%下降到负值？因为我们大肆享受：我们买超大的汽车，一切超大型的东西；我们似乎得了坐立不安综合症并为之买单。所有这些加一起，大体上就是导致消费者进入危机的原因，我们如此仓促，手足无措。在过去大概15年的区间内，个人负债与收入比率大体上从65%增长到135%。于是消费者们过度杠杆化了，当然我们的银行和联邦政府也是如此。
en:So, what happened though, over the course of the last 20 years —we went from a 10 percent savings rate to a negative savings rate.Because we binged. We bought extra-large cars,supersized everything, we bought remedies for restless leg syndrome.All these things together basically createda factor where the consumer sort of drove usheadlong into the crisis that we face today.The personal debt-to-income ratiobasically went from 65 percentto 135 percent in the span of about 15 years.So consumers got overleveraged.And of course our banks did as well, as did our federal government.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:这是一副十足惊人的图表，它展示了从1919到2009年间杠杆的变化趋势。你在最后面看到的是一整个现象，那就是，我们实际上在举债，我们在提前透支未来教育及未来孩子们的花费。
en:This is an absolutely staggering chart.It shows leverage, trended out from 1919 to 2009.And what you end up seeing is the whole phenomenonof the fact that we are actuallystepping forth and basically leveragingfuture education, future children in our households.
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:如果你在政府救援背景下想想这个问题，你将看到的是，如果一个人堆积美元钞票，首先是360,000美元-大致相当于一个5.4英寸人的高度但是，如果将钱堆积起来，你看到的仅仅是数量惊人的美元被投入（金融）系统以资助和援救我们。这就是最初的3150亿美元。前不久，我看到这样一个事实：一万亿秒相当于32000年。你想想这种情形：我们在多么轻松地谈论金钱，这儿一万亿，那儿一万亿。我们在堆积一个长期的杠杆。
en:So if you look at this in the context of visualizing the bailout,what you can see is if you stack up dollar bills,first of all, 360,000 dollarsis about the size of a five-foot-four guy.But if you stack it up, you just see this amazing, staggering amount ofdollars that have been put into the systemto fund and bail us out.So this is the first 315 billion.But I read this fact the other day, that one trillion secondsequals 32 thousand years,so if you think about that, the context, the casualnesswith which we talk about trillion-dollar bailout here, and trillion there,we are stacking ourselves up for long-term leverage.
时间： 3:43
zh-cn:但是，消费者开始行动了，他们在承担责任。我们开到储蓄率在提高事实上，自从危机发生以来已经有连续11个月的储蓄。我们正朝着恢复储蓄率到10%的方向前进。另外值得注意的是第四季度的花费降到62年来的最低点，几乎下降了3.7%。
en:However, consumers have moved.They are taking responsibility.What we&#39;re seeing is an uptake in the savings rate.In fact, 11 straight months of savings have happenedsince the beginning of the crisis.We are working our way back up to that 10 percent.Also, remarkably, in the fourth quarter,spending dropped to its lowest level in 62 years,almost a 3.7 percent decline.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:维萨公司（Visa）报告说，相比信用卡而言更多的人在使用借记卡。我们开始用手头的钱买东西，我们开始谨小慎微地对待，存款和投资。但那并不是整个故事，因为这种转变所花的时间也是相当长的，你不得不承认，在过去一年半中消费者们做了些十分奇怪的事情，我们所经历的真的很奇怪。如果大家考虑到80%的美国人出生在二战以后，这就绝对是属于我们的大萧条。
en:Visa now reports that more people are using debit cardsthan they&#39;re using credit cards.So we&#39;re starting to pay for things with money that we have.And we&#39;re starting to be much more carefulabout how we save and how we invest.But that&#39;s not really the whole story.Because this has also been a dramatic time of transformation.And you&#39;ve got to admit, over the course of the last year and a half,consumers have been doing some pretty weird things.It&#39;s been pretty staggering, what we&#39;ve lived through.If you take into account 80 percent of all Americanswere born after World War II,this is essentially our Depression.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:同时，一些疯狂的事情发生了。我会给大家举些例子，比如牙医，输精管切除书术，枪支和鲨鱼攻击。好吗？（笑声）牙医报告说人们有磨牙。磨牙的人去见牙医，说他们感到有压力。于是，越来越多的人不得不替换他们补牙所用的材料。负责检查背景的联邦调查局说七月份以来，持枪数和枪支销售上涨了几乎25%。又据康奈尔研究院输精管切除手术增多了48%。最后，很好的一点希望和我们前面提到的一点没关系♫那就是，鲨鱼袭人事件也处于2003年以来的最低水平。有人知道原因吗？没有人去海滩。所以任何事物都有光明的一面。
en:And so, as a result, some crazy things have happened.I&#39;ll give you some examples. Lets talk about dentists,vasectomies, guns and shark attacks. Okay?(Laughter)Dentists report molars,you know, people grinding their teeth, coming inand reporting the fact that they&#39;ve had stress.And so there is an increase in people having to have their fillings replaced.Guns, gun sales, according to the FBI,who does background checks, are up almost 25 percent since January.Vasectomies are up 48 percent,according to the Cornell institute.And lastly, but a very good point,hopefully not related to the former point I just made,which is that shark attacks are at their lowest level from 2003.Does anybody know why?No one is at the beach. So there is a bright side to everything.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:不过严肃点说，正在发生的事情以及我想强调消费者并未撤退的原因是：这对消费者而言是一个巨大的机遇。消费者将我们带入衰退，但也能借此机遇引导我们走出衰退。我的意思是，我们可以从不假思索的消费变为深思熟虑的消费。对吗？如果你想想过去30年，消费者从90年代的信奉市场知识变化到近十年的收集各种社会工具和搜索工具。但是，有一样东西阻挡了他们的前进，那就是判断能力。消费者因限制了自己的需求，而能让他们的价值取向与消费相结合并驱动资产主义和商业到不只更多而是更好的境界。
en:But seriously, what we see happening,and the reason I want to stress that the consumer is not in retreat,is that this is a tremendous opportunityfor the consumer who drove us into this recessionto lead us right back out.And what I mean by that is that we can move from mindless consumptionto mindful consumption. Right?If you think about the last three decades,the consumer has moved from savvy about marketing in the &#39;90s,to gathering all these amazing social and search tools in this decade,but the one thing that has been holding them back is the ability to discriminate.By restricting their demand, consumers can actuallyalign their values with their spending,and drive capitalism and businessto not just be about more, but be about better.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:接下来我会解释这一点。根据Y&amp;R的品牌资产评估机构，VML 和 Young &amp; Rubicam的专有工具，我们开始了解到金融危机在消费者市场引发的事情。我们发现了一些相当有趣的事情。我们研究了4种价值转变，这些变化引导我们找到新的消费者行为，也提供了新的管理法则。
en:We&#39;re going to explain that right now.Based on Y&amp;R&#39;s BrandAsset Valuator,proprietary tool of VML and Young &amp; Rubicam,we set out to understand what&#39;s been happening in the crisiswith the consumer marketplace.We found a couple of really interesting things.We&#39;re going to go through four value-shifts that we seedriving new consumer behaviors,that offer new management principles.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:第一个文化价值转变是，生活有种转向所谓液态生活的趋势。美国人对成功的定义由资产的多寡变为是否拥有液态生活。因为，一个人周围的过度行为越少，他的行动速度会越发灵敏。低调消费也因此流行，低调消费是指盲目的消费似乎与流行趋势不相符。这个管理法则是金钱，
en:The first cultural value shift that we see is this tendencytoward something we call liquid life.This is the movement from Americans defining their successon having things to having liquidity,because the less excess that you have around you,the more nimble and fleet of foot you are.As a result, déclassé consumption is in.Déclassé consumption is the whole idea that spending moneyfrivolously makes you look a little bit anti-fashion.The management principle is dollars and cents.
时间： 6:50
zh-cn:那么,先来看看一些低调消费脱离价值的例子。第一件事是，P. Diddy（吹牛老爹）宣称不再穿戴华丽闪亮的服装时，一定有什么事发生了。（xiaosheng）但是严格地说这种现象也发生麦迪逊大街和别的地方，人们走在奢侈精品街上，手里拿着普通无名的纸袋，里面却放着各种名牌物品。今天我们看到上流社会的高价议价，豪宅和不动产的高价议价。我们也只看到一个放松的自我以及拆穿各种诡计。
en:So let&#39;s look at some examples of this déclasséconsumption that falls out of this value.First things is we see something must be happening whenP. Diddy vows to tone down his bling.(Laughter)But seriously, we also have this phenomenonon Madison Avenue and in other places,where people are actually walking out of luxury boutiqueswith ordinary, sort of genericpaper bags to hide the brand purchases.We see high-end haggling in fashion today.High-end haggling for luxury and real estate.We also see just a relaxing of ego,and sort of a dismantling of artifice.
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:这个故事发生在游艇俱乐部，它的成员基本上都是蓝领阶层，是的，蓝领游艇俱乐部,你可以参加这个俱乐部，但成为会员的条件是你必须在船坞上工作。我们也看到未来趋势朝向低调旅游发展,对吧?农业旅游，人们走入葡萄园和农田。
en:This is a story on the yacht clubthat&#39;s all basically blue collar.Blue-collar yacht club, where you can join the yacht club,but you&#39;ve got to work in the boat yard,as sort of condition of membership.We also see the trend towardtourism that&#39;s a little bit more low key. Right?Agritourism, going to vineyards and going to farms.
时间： 7:39
zh-cn:然后，我们也看到价值观已不再但是关于金钱。企业能联系这些新观念去做什么是相当有趣的。有些事儿非常酷，其一是，Frito-Lay（知名食品公司）查觉了他们顾客的流动性。他们发现消费者在月初有较多的钱，而月底则较少,因此他们所做的就是开始改变他们的包装。月初销售的包装比较大,月底产品的包装比较小。
en:And then we also see this movement forward from dollars and cents.What businesses can do to connectwith these new mindsets is really interesting.A couple things that are kind of cool.One is that Frito-Lay figured out this liquidity thingwith their consumer.They found their consumer had more money at the beginning of the month,less at the end of the month. So what they didis they started to change their packaging.Larger packs at the beginning of the month, smaller packagingat the end of the month.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:同样有趣的是，旧金山巨人队（San Francisco Giants职业棒球队）他们采用了动态定价，因此,在制定票价时，他们将各种因素考虑进来，从投手配合到天气再到球队纪录。另一个的例子就是Zynga（开发&quot;开心农场&quot;的游戏厂商）的快速崛起。Zynga的崛起基于消费者不愿定期支付固定成本的欲望。再一次，主题是变动成本和变动生活。因此,小额支付也变成巨大的负担，最后,一些人使用Hulu（免费网络电视）实际上把它当作逃避有线电视账单的设备。因此,真正聪明的想法似乎开始被市场采用,而商人们也开始能理解。
en:Really interestingly, too, was the San Francisco Giants.They&#39;ve just instituted dynamic pricing.So it takes into account everything from the pitcher match-ups,to the weather, to the team records,in setting prices for the consumer.Another quick example of these types of movements isthe rise of Zynga.Zynga has risen on the consumer&#39;s desireto not want to be locked in to fixed-cost.Again, this theme is about variable cost, variable living.So micropayments have become huge.And lastly, some people are using Huluactually as a device to get rid of their cable bill.So, really clever ideas therethat are kind of being taken ahold and marketers are starting to understand.
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:第二个价值观是趋向重视道德及公平竞争。我们透过道德和尊重监视竞争。消费者需要这样，也因此,企业不只要提供价值更须提供价值观。渐渐地，在市场中寻找产品时，消费者开始留意公司文化。因此,我们透过道德与尊重所看到的,很多真实有希望的东西已经从经济衰退中走出来。下面是一些例子“
en:The second of the four valuesis this movement toward ethics and fair play.We see that play itself out with empathy and respect.The consumer is demanding it.And, as a result, businesses must providenot only value, but values.Increasingly, consumers are looking at the culture of the company,looking for their conduct in the marketplace.So, what we see with empathy and respect, lots of really hopeful thingsthat have come out of this recession.And I&#39;ll give you a few examples.
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:一个是社区和街坊的崛起和人们更强调邻居是后备支持系统。此外,在失业清况如此严重的情形下,一个很好的副产品产生了，那就是更多人投身历来为美国所重视的志愿工作。我们也看到这样的一个现象-你们中的一些可能有”赖家孩子” （boomerang kids）这些也是返校校友，大学实际上会会再联系毕业校友，以帮助在校生们找工作,分享技能及进行在职训练。我们也谈论到人格和专业特质，今年一月时，纽约的Hudson发生了这样的奇迹突然间Sully这个名字在婴儿中心变得很重要 （sully，玷污名声）（笑声）
en:One is the rise toward communities and neighborhoods,and increased emphasis on your neighbors as your support system.Also a wonderful byproduct of sort of a really lousy thing,which has been unemployment, is a rise involunteerism that&#39;s been noted in our country.We also see the phenomenon —some of you may have &quot;boomerang kids&quot; —these are &quot;boomerang alumni,&quot;where universities are actually reconnecting with alumniin helping them with jobs, sharing skills and retraining.We also talked about character and professionalism.We had this miracle on the Hudson in New York City, you know, in January,and suddenly Sully has become a key name on Babycenter.(Laughter)
时间： 9:41
zh-cn:那么,从价值及价值观的角度来看，公司能做的是通过各种方式联系消费者。微软做了一些很棒的事，他们宣步将对2百万美国人做信息在职训练，使用既有的设备去做一些好事。
en:So, from a value and values standpoint,what companies can do is connect in lots of different ways.Microsoft is doing something wonderful.They are actually vowing to retrain two million Americans with I.T. training,using their existing infrastructure to do something good.
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:另一个有趣的公司Gore-TexGore-Tex强调个人责任感，无论是管理者还是员工。以至于他们几乎舍弃老板与下属的概念。但他们也谈论到这样一个事实，他们的执行力和所有费用支出都会放在公司内部网络供每个员工观看。完全透明化三思而后行
en:Also a really interesting company is Gore-Tex.Gore-Tex is all about personal accountabilityof their management and their employees,to the point where they really kind of shun the idea of bosses.But they also talk about the fact thattheir executives, all of their expense reportsare put onto their company intranet for everyone to see.Complete transparency.Think twice before you have that bottle of wine.
时间：10:18
zh-cn:后危机消费的第三个法则是永续生存。数据显示消费者意识到这是一个马拉松而非短跑比赛。他们开始认真,每一次购物他们都有发掘出最大价值。注意这一事实：美国人持有他们汽车的时间比以前要长。在今年三月创下历史纪录，平均9.4年我们也看到图书馆已经变成美国人一个巨大的信息源。你知道现在有68%的美国人持有图书馆卡吗?在我们国家历史最高纪录。
en:The third of the four laws of post-crisis consumerismis about durable living.We&#39;re seeing on our data that consumers are realizingthis is a marathon, not a sprint.They are digging in. And they&#39;re looking for ways to extract valueout of every purchase that they make.Witness the fact that Americans are holding on to their carslonger than ever before,9.4 years on average, in March. A record.We also see the fact that libraries have becomea huge resource for America.Did you know that 68 percent of Americansnow carry a library card?The highest percentage ever in our nation&#39;s history.
时间：10:50
zh-cn:因此,这种趋势也可看作知识的累积。继续学习成为更多人的选择。每件事都强调改善、训练发展及进步。我们也看到明显的DIY趋势。我很高兴了解到那些30%自己动手建房的美国人，包括农舍小屋诸如此类的,达到30%这样，人们卷起柚子,弄脏双手，学习这些技术。
en:So what you see in this trend is alsothe accumulation of knowledge.Continuing education is up.Everything is focused on betterment, and training,and development and moving forward.We also see a big DIY movement.I was fascinated to learn that 30 percentof all homes in America are actually built by owners.That includes cottages and the like. But 30 percent.So, people are getting their hands dirty. They are rolling up their sleeves.They want these skills.
时间：11:16
zh-cn:我们看到他们在后院饲养母鸡、小鸡和鸭子,当你计算经济成本时，他们回答那不重要,重点是原则，原则就是关于持续发展和自给自足。我们再看看纽约市的High Line长廊式公园一个很棒的再利用废弃设施的案例。这也为纽约市构建了一个崭新的公园。
en:We see that with the phenomenon of raising backyardhens and chickens and ducks. And when you work out the math,they say it doesn&#39;t work, but the principle is therethat it&#39;s about being sustainable and taking care of yourself.And then we look at the High Line in New York City,an excellent use of reimaginingexisting infrastructure for something good, which isa brand new park in New York City.
时间：11:35
zh-cn:因此,品牌和公司能做的是分红给消费者。做一个长期品牌，提供透明度,承诺物超所值。最佳的例子是PatagoniaPatagonia的环保足迹记事基本上追踪每件产品的生产流程，以给予消费者社会责任并帮助消费者了解每件产品背后的社会伦理道德。
en:So, what brands can do, and companies,is pay dividends to consumers,be a brand that lasts,offer transparency, promise you&#39;re going to be there beyond today&#39;s sale.Perfect example of that is Patagonia.Patagonia&#39;s Footprint Chronicles basicallygoes through and tracks every product that they make,and gives you social responsibility,and helps you understand the ethicsthat are behind the product that they make.
时间：11:58
zh-cn:另一个很棒的例子是富达证券 Fidelity他们并不依信用卡或现金卡消费回馈现金，而是提供529助学奖励金以作为学生教育补助。或另一个有趣的公司SunRun我喜欢这间公司,他们提供一个集合式产品，给家庭安置太阳能面板，并创造以消费者为主的公用事业。他们再将产生的电力卖给市场。这就是消费者驱动的互助。
en:Another great example is Fidelity.Rather than instant cash-back rewards on your credit or debit purchases,this is about 529 rewardsfor your student education.Or the interesting company SunRun.I love this company. They&#39;ve created a consumer collectivewhere they put solar panels on householdsand create a consumer-based utility,where the electricity that they generate is basicallypumped back out into the marketplace.So, it&#39;s a consumer driven co-op.
时间：12:24
zh-cn:因此，第四种金融危机后的消费主义是回归信任圈的趋势。这点非常重要。我们都知道,信任无法被分配，现在信任是关于连接你的小区、连接你的社会网络。在我的书中谈论到，72%的人相信其他人对品牌和公司的介绍,只有15%的人相信广告。因此,从这个角度讲，互助消费主义已经开始发展，消费者一起合作去得到他们从市场无法得到的东西。先快速地看几个例子：
en:So, the fourth sort of post-crisis consumerism that we seeis this movement about return to the fold.It&#39;s incredibly important right now.Trust is not parceled out, as we all know.It&#39;s now about connecting to your communities,connecting to your social networks.In my book I talked about the fact that 72 percentof people trust what other people sayabout a brand or a company, versus 15 percent on advertising.So, in that respect,cooperative consumerism has really taken off.This is about consumers working togetherto get what they want out of the marketplace.Let&#39;s look at a couple of quick examples.
时间：12:56
zh-cn:手工运动的力量很强大。那就是就近获得产品和服务以支持本地社区，无论是奶酪、酒还是其他产品。因此本地货币也出现并发展。意识到在这种环境下很难获得融资，人们开始和那些信赖的人做生意，在他们熟悉的地方性市场。因此,地区货币的流通是另外有趣的现象。然后他们做了一个报告，这个报告很吸引人。事实上，他们已经开始在美国的几个小区行动，开始公布人们的电力使用。他们发现人们见到使用数据后，这些社区的电力使用量降低。
en:The artisanal movement is huge.Everything about locally derived products and services,supporting your local neighborhoods,whether it&#39;s cheeses, wines and other products.Also this rise of local currencies.Realizing that it&#39;s difficult to get loans in this environment,you&#39;re doing business with people you trust,in your local markets.So, this rise of this sort of local currencyis another really interesting phenomenon.And then they did a recent reportI thought was fascinating.They actually started, in certain communities in the United States,start to publish people&#39;s electricity usage.And what they found out is when that was available for public record,the people&#39;s electricity usage in those communities dropped.
时间：13:35
zh-cn:接下来,再看看合资买牛的构想，这个现象完全是消费者自己组织行动，去那些他们知道安全可控的农场购买肉类；这样他们总能掌握相关的信息。还有一个真正有趣的趋势发生在加洲,是有关于胡萝卜族的。传统的方法是去联合抵制购买,对吧?采用惩罚的方式?那为什么不用奖励的方式呢?这些胡萝卜族组织集中他们的资源去鼓励商家去做好事。
en:Then we also look at the idea of cow-pooling,which is the whole phenomenon of consumersorganizing togetherto buy meat from organic farmsthat they know is safe and controlled in the way that they want it to be controlled.And then there is this other really interesting movementthat&#39;s happened in California, which is about carrot mobs.The traditional thing would be to boycott right?Have a stick? Well why not have a carrot?So these are consumers organizing, pooling their resourcesto incentify companies to do good.
时间：14:04
zh-cn:然后让我们来看看企业能做些什么。到处都有机会去成为社群组织者，你必须意识到你不能对抗和控制它。你实际上需要去组织它。你必须驾驭它,必须赋予它意义。这里有很多有趣的实际案例可供我们参考。第一个是愈发明显的现象，Zagat的业务实际上已（zagat网站，类似大众点评网）不仅仅是从多角度评鉴美食餐馆，他们也开始评价医疗保健。Zagat 到底有什么资质呢?他们当然有很多.因为他们有很强的人脉网络.对吧?因此,这变成一股非常强大的力量促使她们的品牌变得更有张力。
en:And then we look at what companies can do.This is all the opportunity about being a community organizer.You have to realize that you can&#39;t fight and control this.You actually need to organize it.You need to harness it. You need to give it meaning.And there is lots of really interesting examples herethat we see.First is just the rise of the fact thatZagat&#39;s has actually moved out ofand diversified from rating restaurants,into actually rating healthcare.So what credentials does Zagat&#39;s have?Well, they have a lot, because it&#39;s their network of people. Right?So that becomes a very powerful force for themto make their brand more elastic.
时间：14:40
zh-cn:再来看看Kogi现象这个Kogi并非固定,而是一个流动餐车,对吧?它是一个穿梭在洛杉矶的快餐车,而唯一能找到它的方式就是通过Twitter。又或者再看看强生集团的Momversations网站，他们建立了一个感性的博客，娇生集团借此利用每一个妈妈博主的力量。妈妈们可以去建立一个论坛，在那里互相沟通和联系。这俨然是一个非常,非常有效的营销方式，对强生公司也是如此。还有，借用Twitter的连接作用，你可以得到来自从福特汽车到Zappos的CEO们的优质工作。这样就创造了一个开放式的环境，允许员工参与整个过程而不是躲在幕后。
en:Then you look at the phenomenon of Kogi.This Kogi doesn&#39;t exist. It&#39;s a moving truck. Right?It&#39;s a moving truck through L.A., and the only way you can find itis through Twitter.Or you look at Johnson &amp; Johnson&#39;s Momversations.A phenomenal blog that&#39;s been built up.Where J&amp;J basically is tapping intothe power of mommy bloggers,allowing them to basically create a forumwhere they can communicate and they can connect.And it&#39;s also become a very, very valuablesort of advertising revenue for J&amp;J as well.This plus the fact that you&#39;ve gotphenomenal work from CEOsfrom Ford to Zappos, connecting on Twitter,creating an open environment,allowing their employees to be part of the process,rather than hidden behind walls.
时间：15:24
zh-cn:这股崛起的力量似乎也促使公司开始尝试完全透明性和公开性。因为消费者希望这样。当我们看看这点，再退后一步看，我相信今天发生的危机是绝对真实的。它已经对消费者造成极大的冲击，但同时,这也是一个绝佳的机会。”危机“在汉语中实际上指的是同一件事，危机就是转机。我们当前所看到正是，消费者事实上有能力去引领我们走出这次经济衰退。
en:You see this rising force in sort oftotal transparency and openness that companies are starting to adopt,all because the consumer is demanding it.So, when we look at this and we step back,what I believe is that the crisis that exists todayis definitely real.It&#39;s been tremendously powerful for consumers.But, at the same time, this is also a tremendous opportunity.And the Chinese character for crisisis actually the same side of the same coin.Crisis equals opportunity.What we&#39;re seeing with consumers right nowis the ability for them to actuallylead us forward out of this recession.
时间：15:57
zh-cn:因此,我们相信价值驱动消费会促使资本主义变得更好。它将驱动创新。将创造更持久耐用的产品。它将创造更好、更直观的消费者服务。它将给我们机会去连接公司互相分享价值。因此,当我们往后看或跳出来看看这些数据所显示的趋势的开始。我们看到一个非常有希望的远景在美国的未来非常感谢。（掌声）
en:So, we believe that values-driven spendingwill force capitalism to be better.It will drive innovation.It will make longer-lasting products. It willcreate better, more intuitive customer service.It will give us the opportunity to connect with companiesthat share the values that we share.So, when we look back and step out at thisand see the beginning of these trendsthat we&#39;re seeing in our data,we see a very hopeful picture for the future of America.Thank you very much.(Applause)
