时间： 0:12
zh-cn:在非洲，我们说：“上帝给了白人一块手表，却给了黑人时间。（笑声）我想，怎么可能让人用这么长时间在18分钟内讲完他的故事。这对我真是个挑战。
en:In Africa we say,&quot;God gave the white man a watchand gave the black man time.&quot;(Laughter)I think, how is it possiblefor a man with so much timeto tell his story in 18 minutes?I think it will be quite a challenge for me.
时间： 0:32
zh-cn:现在大家讨论的大部分关于非洲的事情都是饥饿、艾滋病、贫穷或者战争。但今天我要与大家分享的故事是关于成功的。是关于一个位于非洲西南部的国家叫做纳米比亚。纳米比亚的人口有210万，但国土面积只有两个加利福尼亚那么大。
en:Most African stories these days,they talk about famine,HIV and AIDS,poverty or war.But my story that I would like to share with you todayis the one about success.It is about a countryin the southwest of Africacalled Namibia.Namibia has got 2.1 million people,but it is only twice the size of California.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:我来自纳米比亚西北部的一个偏远地区，叫做库内内。位于库内内中部有一个叫Sesfontain的村子。这是我出生的地方。我就从那里来的。大部分人因为安吉丽娜.朱莉和布拉德.皮特的原因知道了纳米比亚在哪里。他们喜爱纳米比亚那美丽的沙丘，甚至比帝国大厦还要高。风力和时间将我们的地貌改变成非常奇特的形状。而这些地形让野生动物们变得如此适应这恶劣而奇特的土地。
en:I come from a regionin the remote northwest part of the country.It&#39;s called Kunene region.And in the center of Kunene regionis the village of Sesfontein. This is where I was born.This is where I&#39;m coming from.Most people that are following the storyof Angelina Jolieand Brad Pittwill know where Namibia is.They love Namibiafor its beautiful dunes,that are even tallerthan the Empire State Building.Wind and time have twisted our landscapeinto very strange shapes,and these shapes are speckled with wildlifethat has become so adaptedto this harsh and strange land.
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:我是辛巴族人。你可能会想，你为什么穿着西方人的衣服？我是辛巴族人，也是纳米比亚人。辛巴族是纳米比亚29个民族之一。我们有自己传统的生活方式。我放牧长大，饲养家畜——山羊、绵羊和牛。有一天，我父亲带我去丛林。他说：“约翰，我想让你成为一个优秀的牧人。孩子，如果你在照看家畜的时候碰到一只猎豹在吃我们的山羊，猎豹其实是很紧张的。你只要走近它，走近它然后从背后狠狠把它打到。”（笑声）“它就会放了山羊然后跑掉。”然后他又说，“孩子，如果你碰到一头狮子，不要动。千万不要动。站在那。沉住气，就看着它的眼睛，它可能并不想和你打架。”（笑声）接着，他说道，“如果你看到一只金钱豹，孩子，你最好撒腿就跑。”（笑声)“想象你比养的那些所有羊跑得都快。”以这种方式——（笑声）以这种方式，我真正开始了解自然。
en:I&#39;m a Himba.You might wonder, why are you wearing these Western clothes?I&#39;m a Himba and Namibian.A Himba is one of the 29ethnic groups in Namibia.We live a very traditional lifestyle.I grew up herding,looking after our livestock —goats, sheep and cattle.And one day,my father actually took me into the bush.He said, &quot;John,I want you to become a good herder.Boy, if you are looking after our livestockand you see a cheetaheating our goat —cheetah is very nervous —just walk up to it.Walk up to it and smack it on the backside.&quot;(Laughter)&quot;And he will let go of the goatand run off.&quot;But then he said,&quot;Boy, if you run into a lion,don&#39;t move.Don&#39;t move. Stand your ground.Puff up and just look it in the eyeand it may not want to fight you.&quot;(Laughter)But then, he said,&quot;If you see a leopard,boy, you better run like hell.&quot;(Laughter)&quot;Imagine you run faster than those goats you are looking after.&quot;In this way —(Laughter)In this way, I actually started to learn about nature.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:除了作为一个普通的纳米比亚人，除了作为一个辛巴族人，我还是一名自然资源保护者。在大自然中，很重要的是你要知道要面对什么和逃离什么。我出生于1971年。曾经生活在种族隔离体制下，白人可以随意地种地、放牧和打猎，但是我们黑人，我们是不被容许接触野生动物的。当我们想要去打猎时，我们被叫做偷猎的人。结果，我们被罚款还被关进监牢。
en:In addition to being an ordinary Namibianand in addition to being a HimbaI&#39;m also a trained conservationist.And it is very important if you are in the fieldto know what to confrontand what to run from.I was born in 1971.We lived under apartheid regime.The whites could farm, grazeand hunt as they wished,but we black, we were not regarded as responsibleto use wildlife.Whenever we tried to hunt,we were called poachers.And as a result, we were fined and locked up in jail.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:在1966年到1990年间，美国与苏联为争夺对我国的控制权而发生战争。在战争时期，到处都是军队和军人。军人捕猎犀牛，要猎取珍贵的犀牛角和象牙。他们可以卖到一公斤5000美元。在同一年，几乎每个辛巴族人都有一支来复枪。因为是在战争年代，英式.303来复枪遍布整个国家。
en:Between 1966 and 1990,the U.S. and Soviet interestsfought for control over my country.And you know, during war time,there are militaries, armies, that are moving around.And the army hunted for valuable rhino hornsand tusks.They could sell these things for anything between$5,000 a kilo.During the same yearalmost every Himba had a rifle.Because it was wartime,the British .303 riflewas just all over the whole country.
时间： 4:49
zh-cn:同时，在1980年前后，我们遭受了非常严重的干旱。几乎所有剩下的生物都死亡了。我们的牲畜几乎濒临灭绝，无法保护。我们非常饥饿。我记得有一天晚上，一头饿极了的美洲豹窜进一个邻居的房子叼走了正在床上睡觉的孩子。实在太惨了。直到今天，人们还记得这场惨剧。可以准确指出惨剧发生的确切地点。在同一年，我们几乎失去了一切。我父亲说，“为什么你不去学校呢？”然后他们把我送进学校，只是为了让我忙碌起来。
en:Then in the same time, around 1980,we had a very big drought.It killed almost everything that was left.Our livestock wasalmost at the brink of extinction,protected as well.We were hungry.I remember a nightwhen a hungry leopardwent into the houseof one of our neighborsand took a sleeping child out of the bed.It&#39;s a very sad story.But even today,that memory is still in people&#39;s minds.They can pinpoint the exact locationwhere this all happened.And then, in the same year,we almost lost everything.And my father said, &quot;Why don&#39;t you just go to school?&quot;And they sent me off to school, just to get busy somewhere there.
时间： 5:39
zh-cn:那年我去了学校读书，我父亲在一个叫做IRDNC(农村综合发展与自然保护）的非政府组织机构找到一份工作。他们每年要在各个部落花大量时间的工作。当地部落都很信任他们，像我们部落的首领，Joshua Kangombe.Joshua Kangombe目睹了所有发生的一切：野生动物正在消失、偷猎猖獗、情况看起来那么无望。死亡与绝望的情绪在Joshua和所有的部落周围蔓延。
en:And the year I went to school,my father actually got a job with a non-governmental organizationcalled IRDNC, Integrated Rural Development and Nature Conservation.They actually spend a lot of time a year in the communities.They were trusted by the local communitieslike our leader, Joshua Kangombe.Joshua Kangombe saw what was happening:wildlife disappearing,poaching was skyrocketing,and the situation seemed very hopeless.Death and despair surrounded Joshuaand our entire communities.
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:后来，IRDNC的人给Joshua提议说：不如我掏钱让你信任的人去保护野生动物，怎么样？部落里有没有非常了解丛林也非常了解野生动物的人？首领说：“有啊。我们的偷猎手。”“啊？偷猎手？”“是的。我们的偷猎手。”™那就是我父亲。我父亲当偷猎手很长时间了，IRDNC没有像在非洲其他地方那样去惩罚偷猎手，而是帮助他们重新找回管理自己人民的能力和拥有与管理野生动物的权利。后来，当人们开始感觉到有了野生动物的拥有权，野生动物的数量开始回升，这其实成为纳米比亚保护区的一个根基。拥有了独立，整个部落所做的努力得到了新政府的拥护。
en:But then, the people from IRDNC proposed to Joshua:What if we pay people that you trustto look after wildlife?Do you have anybody in your communities, or people,that know the bush very welland that know wildlife very well?The headman said: &quot;Yes. Our poachers.&quot;&quot;Eh? The poachers?&quot;&quot;Yes. Our poachers.&quot;And that was my father.My father has been a poacher for quite a long time.Instead of shooting poachers deadlike they were doing elsewhere in Africa,IRDNC has helped men reclaim their abilitiesto manage their peoplesand their rights to own and manage wildlife.And thus, as people started feeling ownership over wildlife,wildlife numbers started coming back,and that&#39;s actually becoming a foundation for conservation in Namibia.With independence, the whole approach of community getting involvedwas embraced by our new government.
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:有三件事情真正对建立这个根基起了帮助作用首先是以传统为荣并接纳新观念。这是我们的传统。在每一个辛巴族村子，都会点燃圣火。圣火传承着我们祖先的精神，通过部落首领传达给我们，建议我们去哪里取水、哪里放牧、到哪里打猎。我认为这是让我们根据环境管理自己的最好方法。这里有些新的方法。用直升机运送犀牛。我认为这比看不见的精神的传达要简单多了，对吧？这些是外来人教我们的。我们从外人那里学到的这些。我们需要新的方法来描述我们传统的土地；我们要学习更多，像GPS，看看GPS是否真的能真实反映出这片土地或者它仅仅只是西方国家某个地方造出来的一个东西？然后我们还想看看我们祖传的地图能不能和世界某个地方造出来的数字地图相匹配。通过这些，我们开始认识到我们的梦想和我们一直保持的引以为傲的传统，但我们仍然接纳新观念。
en:Three things that actually help to build on this foundation:The very first one ishonoring of tradition and being open to new ideas.Here is our tradition:At every Himba village, there is a sacred fire.And at this sacred fire, the spirit of our ancestorsspeak through the headmanand advise us where to get water,where to get grazings,and where to go and hunt.And I think this is the best way of regulating ourselveson the environment.And here are the new ideas.Transporting rhinos using helicoptersI think is much easierthan talking through a spirit that you can&#39;t see, isn&#39;t it?And these things we were taught by outsiders.We learned these things from outsiders.We needed new boundaries to describe our traditional lands;we needed to learn more things like GPSjust to see whether —can GPS really reflect the true reflection of the landor is this just a thing made somewhere in the West?And we then wanted to see whether we can match ourancestral maps with digital maps made somewhere in the world.And through this,we actually started realizing our dreams,and we maintained honoring our traditionsbut we were still open to new ideas.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:第二件事是我们想要一种生活，一种更好的生活方式我们可以从中获益。大部分的偷猎者，像我父亲，都是自己部落的人。不是外来人。他们都是自己人。有时候当他们被抓到了，大家也会尊重他们，把他们带回部落，他们是更远大梦想的一部分。最好的是，像我父亲——我可不是我父亲的同伙——（笑声）他们被委以责任，负责让其他人停止偷猎。随着事情的进展，我们开始变成一个部落；我们知道我们与大自然相连。这在纳米比亚是非常非常重要的事情。
en:The second element is that we wanted to have a life,a better life where we can benefit through many things.Most poachers, like my father,were people from our own community.They were not people from outside.These were our own people.And sometimes, once they were caught,they were treated with respect, brought back into the communitiesand they were made part of the bigger dreams.The best one, like my father — I&#39;m not campaigning for my father —(Laughter)they were put in charge to stop others from poaching.And when this thing started going on,we started becoming one community,renewing our connection to nature.And that was a very strong thing in Namibia.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:最后一件对这些起到帮助的事情是合作伙伴。政府对我们的传统土地给予合法权利。其他合作伙伴是商业组织。商业组织帮助纳米比亚进入世界地图，而且他们还帮助将荒野开发成像其他土地一样非常有价值的土地，例如农耕。今天大部分纳米比亚保护区的同事都受到过世界野生动物基金会的最先进的保护区培训练习。他们已经为整个项目提供了20年的基金。到目前为止，在世界野生动物基金会的支持下，我们能将非常小型的项目做成国家级的大项目。纳米比亚......或者Sesfontein不再是一个孤立的小村庄，躲在纳米比亚的一个小角落。我们拥有这些资产，我们现在是地球村的一分子。
en:The last element that actually helped develop these thingswas the partnerships.Our government has given legal status over our traditional lands.The other partners that we have gotis business communities.Business communities helped bring Namibia onto the world mapand they have also helped make wildlifea very valuable land use like any other land usessuch as agriculture.And most of my conservation colleagues todaythat you find in Namibiahave been trained through the initiative,through the involvement of World Wildlife Fundin the most up-to-date conservation practices.They have also given funding for two decadesto this whole program.And so far, with the support of World Wildlife Fund,we&#39;ve been able to scale up the very small programsto national programs today.Namibia ... or Sesfonteinwas no more an isolated village somewhere,hidden away in Namibia.With these assets we are now part of the global village.
时间：10:51
zh-cn:从我父亲的第一份部落保安工作到现在已过去30年。很遗憾他去世了，没能看到今天我和我的孩子们看到的成功。我1995年从学校毕业时，我们那里，整个西北地区只有20头狮子。而现在，已经超过130头。（掌声）所以，如果大家去纳米比亚，晚上一定要呆在帐篷里，不要在外面乱跑！
en:Thirty years have passedsince my father&#39;s first job as a community game guard.It&#39;s very unfortunate that he passed away and he cannot see the successas I and my children see it today.When I finished school in 1995,there were only 20 lions in the entire Northwest — in our area.But today, there are more than 130 lions.(Applause)So please, if you go to Namibia,make sure that you stay in the tents.Don&#39;t walk out at night!
时间：11:30
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:31
zh-cn:黑犀牛——在1982年几乎灭绝，但现在，Kunene是世界上最大的黑犀牛自由集居地。这是在保护区以外。
en:The black rhino — they were almost extinct in 1982.But today, Kunene has the largest concentration of black rhino —free-roaming black rhinos — in the world.This is outside the protected area.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:49
zh-cn:美洲豹——它们现在数量很大但是它们在远离村庄的地方，因为自然平原面积成倍增长，还有像斑马、跳羚等动物的数量也成倍增长。它们生活的地方很远因为其他事物都在成倍增长，动物从不到一千只增长到数万只。
en:The leopard — they are now in big numbersbut they are now far away from our village,because the natural plain has multiplied,like zebras, springboks and everything.They stay very much far awaybecause this other thing has multipliedfrom less than a thousand to tens of thousands of animals.
时间：12:10
zh-cn:而且，刚开始范围很小，部落与部落加入，现在范围扩大，我们叫做保护协会。保护协会是政府批准的合法组织，而且是由各个部落为自身利益自己管理。现在，我们有60个保护协会管理和保护着纳米比亚1300多万亩土地。我们已经让整个国家的保护区变成新的摸样。世界上没有任何地方的部落管理保护区能有如此规模。
en:What started as very small,community rangers getting community involved,has now grown into something that we call conservancies.Conservancies are legally instituted institutionsby the government,and these are run by the communities themselves, for their benefit.Today, we have got 60 conservanciesthat manage and protect over 13 million hectaresof land in Namibia.We have already reshaped conservation in the entire country.Nowhere else in the worldhas community-adopted conservation at this scale.
时间：12:53
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：12:58
zh-cn:2008年，保护协会创收五百七十万美元。这是我们新的经济——一个建立在尊重自己自然资源上的经济形式。而且，我们能用这些钱做很多事。很重要的，我们把钱用于发展教育。再者，我们把钱用于基础设施建设。食物。还有很重要的一点——我们把钱投资于艾滋病教育。大家也知道这些病毒对非洲造成了巨大的影响。这项成就是来自于非洲的好消息所以我们要站在屋顶上大声宣布。
en:In 2008, conservancy generated 5.7 million dollars.This is our new economy —an economy based on the respect of our natural resources.And we are able to use this money for many things:Very importantly, we put it in education.Secondly, we put it for infrastructure. Food.Very important as well — we invest this money in AIDS and HIV education.You know that Africa is being affected by these viruses.And this is the good news from Africathat we have to shout from the rooftops.
时间：13:34
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：13:41
zh-cn:现在，世界真正需要的是你来帮助我和我们的合作伙伴将我们在纳米比亚学到的东西带到其他有类似问题的地方：像蒙古，甚至是你自家的后院，北部大平原，那里野牛和其他动物也遭受了同样的境遇，很多部落也在衰落。我还喜欢那个。纳米比亚是非洲的榜样，非洲是美国的榜样。（掌声）我们在纳米比亚做得很成功，因为我们梦想的未来绝不仅仅只是一个健康的野生世界。我们知道如果不改善当地部落的生活条件，保护区就将失败。所以，来跟我聊聊吧，谈谈纳米比亚，更好的是，来纳米比亚亲眼看看我们是怎么做到的。请登录我们的网站更多地了解，看怎样能帮助非洲的CBNRM和整个世界。非常感谢。
en:And now, what the world really needsis for you to help me and our partnerstake some of what we have learned in Namibiato other places with similar problems:places like Mongolia,or even in your own backyards,the Northern Great Plains,where buffalo and other animals have sufferedand many communities are in decline.I like that one:Namibia serving as a model to Africa,and Africa serving as a model to the United States.(Applause)We were successful in Namibiabecause we dreamed of a futurethat was much more than just a healthy wildlife.We knew conservation would failif it doesn&#39;t work to improve the lives of the local communities.So, come and talk to me about Namibia,and better yet, come to Namibiaand see for yourself how we have done it.And please, do visit our websiteto learn more and see how you can help CBNRMin Africa and across the world.Thank you very much.
时间：15:20
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
