时间： 0:14
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:下午好。
en:Good afternoon.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:众所周知，我们正处经济困难时期。今天我带来了一个小小的建议可以消除财政负担。
en:As you&#39;re all aware, we face difficult economic times.I come to you with a modest proposalfor easing the financial burden.
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:这个想法来自我和麻省理工学院一个朋友的谈话，他是物理学家。他当时绞尽脑汁地给我解释：运用激光冷却物质的伟大实验不得不说他一开始就把我弄得晕头转向，因为光并不能使东西变冷。反而使东西变得更热。这一现象现在就在发生。大家之所以能看见我站在台上是因为这个房间充满了超过一万亿亿光子。它们正在这个空间里以接近光的速度随机运动。它们的颜色各不相同，频率各异，它们正在物体表面反弹，也在我的身上反弹，其中一些光子直接飞入了你的眼里，所以，你的脑海里才呈现出我站在这里的图像。
en:This idea came to me while talking toa physicist friend of mine at MIT.He was struggling to explain something to me:a beautiful experiment that uses lasers to cool down matter.Now he confused me from the very start,because light doesn&#39;t cool things down.It makes it hotter. It&#39;s happening right now.The reason that you can see me standing here is becausethis room is filled with more than 100 quintillion photons,and they&#39;re moving randomly through the space, near the speed of light.All of them are different colors,they&#39;re rippling with different frequencies,and they&#39;re bouncing off every surface, including me,and some of those are flying directly into your eyes,and that&#39;s why your brain is forming an image of me standing here.
时间： 1:29
zh-cn:然而，激光却非如此。激光也运用光子，但是这些光子是同步的，如果把这些光子聚焦成一束光线，它的作用将是无比强大的。激光的控制之精准可用以在眼中做手术，也可以用来储存大量数据，也可以用来做这项伟大的实验就是当时我朋友绞尽脑汁给我解释的实验。首先，把原子囚禁在一个特殊的瓶子里。瓶子将运用电磁场把原子和周围的噪声隔开。原子本身的运动很剧烈，但是如果把调到正确频率的激光射入瓶中，原子就会慢慢地吸收这些光子原子的运动就会变慢。原子会一点点地变冷直到达到绝对零度（约 -273.16℃）。
en:Now a laser is different.It also uses photons, but they&#39;re all synchronized,and if you focus them into a beam,what you have is an incredibly useful tool.The control of a laser is so precisethat you can perform surgery inside of an eye,you can use it to store massive amounts of data,and you can use it for this beautiful experimentthat my friend was struggling to explain.First you trap atoms in a special bottle.It uses electromagnetic fields to isolate the atomsfrom the noise of the environment.And the atoms themselves are quite violent,but if you fire lasers that are precisely tuned to the right frequency,an atom will briefly absorb those photonsand tend to slow down.Little by little it gets colderuntil eventually it approaches absolute zero.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:如果使用正确的原子，并让其足够冷却，奇迹就会发生。这些原子不再属于固体、液体或气体。这些原子进入一种新的物质状态，叫做超流体。原子失去自己的个体性，量子的规则取而代之，开始发挥作用，这就让超流体拥有了可怕了属性。比如，如果你把光通过超流体，超流体可把光子变慢到60千米每小时。另一个可怕的属性是超流体流动时没有粘性或摩擦力，所以，如果你打开瓶盖，它不会留在里面。一层薄膜会从内壁往上爬，翻过瓶口流出来。当然，它接触到外部环境的那一刻，它的温度就会上升哪怕一丁点，它就会立刻转化回常态物质。超流体是我们发现的最脆弱的物态之一。科学的乐趣在于：运用实验战胜我们的直觉。
en:Now if you use the right kind of atoms and you get them cold enough,something truly bizarre happens.It&#39;s no longer a solid, a liquid or a gas.It enters a new state of matter called a superfluid.The atoms lose their individual identity,and the rules from the quantum world take over,and that&#39;s what gives superfluids such spooky properties.For example, if you shine light through a superfluid,it is able to slow photons downto 60 kilometers per hour.Another spooky property is that it flowswith absolutely no viscosity or friction,so if you were to take the lid off that bottle,it won&#39;t stay inside.A thin film will creep up the inside wall,flow over the top and right out the outside.Now of course, the moment that it does hit the outside environment,and its temperature rises by even a fraction of a degree,it immediately turns back into normal matter.Superfluids are one of the most fragile things we&#39;ve ever discovered.And this is the great pleasure of science:the defeat of our intuition through experimentation.
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:但是实验不是故事的终点，因为我们仍然需要把这些知识介绍给他人。我是分子生物学博士。但我还是不大懂多数科学家在说什么。就像我朋友当时解释那项实验一样，我感觉他说的越多，我懂得越少。因为如果你要给某人描述一个复杂想法的轮廓，让他懂得其精髓，话说的越少越好。事实上，理想状态是根本不用语言。我总是在想，我朋友当时应该用一支舞蹈来给我解释那个实验。当然，我们需要舞蹈演员时他们似乎总不在身边。
en:But the experiment is not the end of the story,because you still have to transmit that knowledge to other people.I have a Ph.D in molecular biology.I still barely understand what most scientists are talking about.So as my friend was trying to explain that experiment,it seemed like the more he said,the less I understood.Because if you&#39;re trying to give someone the big pictureof a complex idea, to really capture its essence,the fewer words you use, the better.In fact, the ideal may be to use no words at all.I remember thinking, my friend could have explainedthat entire experiment with a dance.Of course, there never seem to be any dancers around when you need them.
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:其实，这个想法并不像听起来那么恐怖。四年前，我创办了一场比赛，叫 “舞动博士”科学家不能用语言来解释他们的研究，而必须用舞蹈来解释。令人惊奇地是，这似乎很有用。舞蹈真的可以让科学变得更加容易理解。但是不要相信我的一面之词。上网去搜 &quot;Dance Your Ph.D.&quot;成百上千的跳舞的科学家在等着你。
en:Now, the idea is not as crazy as it sounds.I started a contest four years ago called Dance Your Ph.D.Instead of explaining their research with words,scientists have to explain it with dance.Now surprisingly, it seems to work.Dance really can make science easier to understand.But don&#39;t take my word for it.Go on the Internet and search for &quot;Dance Your Ph.D.&quot;There are hundreds of dancing scientists waiting for you.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:举办这项赛事，最让我惊讶的是一些科学家现在就在和舞蹈演员直接合作开展研究。比如，在明尼苏达大学，一位名叫大卫·奥迪的生物医学工程师和舞蹈演员合作研究细胞的运动。他们通过改变细胞的形状进行研究。当化学信号出现时，就会刺激细胞朝那边扩展，因为细胞总是不停地和周围的环境接触这使得细胞可沿正确的方向流动。但是表面舒缓优雅，内部却如混沌不堪，因为细胞通过一层硬蛋白质纤维控制形状，而这些纤维又总是在脱落。但是和纤维快速爆炸一样，更多的蛋白质附着在末端，使其增长，不断的变化就是为了保持原样。大卫先创建数学模型，然后再到实验室测试，但是在这之前，他和舞蹈演员一起研究首先需要创建哪种模型。这属于高效的头脑风暴。我去拜访大卫了解他的研究时，他运用舞蹈演员给我解释而不是常用的办法：幻灯片。
en:The most surprising thing that I&#39;ve learned while running this contestis that some scientists are now working directly with dancers on their research.For example, at the University of Minnesota,there&#39;s a biomedical engineer named David Odde,and he works with dancers to study how cells move.They do it by changing their shape.When a chemical signal washes up on one side,it triggers the cell to expand its shape on that side,because the cell is constantly touching and tugging at the environment.So that allows cells to ooze along in the right directions.But what seems so slow and graceful from the outsideis really more like chaos inside,because cells control their shape with a skeleton of rigid protein fibers,and those fibers are constantly falling apart.But just as quickly as they explode,more proteins attach to the ends and grow them longer,so it&#39;s constantly changingjust to remain exactly the same.Now, David builds mathematical models of this and then he tests those in the lab,but before he does that, he works with dancersto figure out what kinds of models to build in the first place.It&#39;s basically efficient brainstorming,and when I visited David to learn about his research,he used dancers to explain it to merather than the usual method: PowerPoint.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:下面我就谈谈我的小小建议。我认为，用幻灯片做的那些糟糕的报告是全球经济的严重威胁。
en:And this brings me to my modest proposal.I think that bad PowerPoint presentationsare a serious threat to the global economy.
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:（笑声）（掌声）
en:(Laughter) (Applause)
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:当然，这要取决于你如何衡量这件事，但是一种估算是每天损失两亿五千万美元。假设平均每四个人听半小时的报告四人年薪共三万五千美元保守估计四分之一的报告纯属浪费时间，而且如果每天约有三千万个用幻灯片做的报告，那么，年损失金额将高达一千亿美元。当然，这还只是我们浪费的时间，全程听完报告的时间。还有其他费用，因为幻灯片是一个工具，和其他工具一样，幻灯片可以也将会被人滥用。借用美国中央情报局的话说，这有助于软化你的观众。炫丽的图片，无关紧要的数据，让他们眼花缭乱。有助于创造称职的假象，简明的假象，最要命地，理解的假象。
en:Now it does depend on how you measure it, of course,but one estimate has put the drain at 250 million dollars per day.Now that assumes half-hour presentationsfor an average audience of four peoplewith salaries of 35,000 dollars,and it conservatively assumes thatabout a quarter of the presentations are a complete waste of time,and given that there are some apparently30 million PowerPoint presentations created every day,that would indeed add up to an annual wasteof 100 billion dollars.Of course, that&#39;s just the time we&#39;re losingsitting through presentations.There are other costs, because PowerPoint is a tool,and like any tool, it can and will be abused.To borrow a concept from my country&#39;s CIA,it helps you to soften up your audience.It distracts them with pretty pictures, irrelevant data.It allows you to create the illusion of competence,the illusion of simplicity,and most destructively, the illusion of understanding.
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:现在美国欠有十五万亿债务。我们的领导人们正不辞辛劳地寻求省钱之道。一种办法是大规模削减对艺术的公共支持。比如，美国艺术捐赠基金会的预算为一亿五千万美元，砍掉这一项目将为国债削减约十万分之一。我们当然不能和这些数字争论。然而，一旦我们消除给艺术的资金支持，就会出现一些弊端。街上流浪的艺术家会使失业率猛增。很多人转而会去吸毒、卖淫。这将不可避免地降低城区的房屋价值。所有这些都将首先导致我们的储蓄挥霍殆尽。
en:So now my country is 15 trillion dollars in debt.Our leaders are working tirelessly to try and find ways to save money.One idea is to drastically reduce public support for the arts.For example, our National Endowment for the Arts,with its $150 million budget,slashing that program would immediately reduce the national debtby about one one-thousandth of a percent.One certainly can&#39;t argue with those numbers.However, once we eliminate public funding for the arts,there will be some drawbacks.The artists on the street will swell the ranks of the unemployed.Many will turn to drug abuse and prostitution,and that will inevitably lower property values in urban neighborhoods.All of this could wipe out the savings we&#39;re hoping to make in the first place.
时间： 8:11
zh-cn:所以，今天我谨提出我的观点，希望不会遭到反对。一旦我们消除对艺术家的资金支持，他们可以重返工作岗位让他们取代幻灯片。作为测试，我建议先从美国的舞蹈演员开始。毕竟，他们是同行中最脆弱的，容易受伤，还好得超慢拜我们的医疗体制所赐。除了舞动博士，我们还应该用舞蹈解释所有复杂问题。想象一下，我们的政治家用舞蹈解释我们为何必须入侵他国或拯救投资银行。一定有用。
en:I shall now, therefore, humbly propose my own thoughts,which I hope will not be liable to the least objection.Once we eliminate public funding for the artists,let&#39;s put them back to workby using them instead of PowerPoint.As a test case, I propose we start with American dancers.After all, they are the most perishable of their kind,prone to injury and very slow to healdue to our health care system.Rather than dancing our Ph.Ds,we should use dance to explain all of our complex problems.Imagine our politicians using danceto explain why we must invade a foreign countryor bail out an investment bank.It&#39;s sure to help.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:当然，将来的某一天，比幻灯片更强大的劝说技术会问世流传，舞蹈演员作为雄辩工具将不再重要。然而，我相信，到那天，我们已经度过了目前的财政灾难。也许那时，我们才能有幸坐在观众席上心无旁骛全心观赏动感的人类形体。（音乐）（掌声）
en:Of course someday, in the deep future,a technology of persuasioneven more powerful than PowerPoint may be invented,rendering dancers unnecessary as tools of rhetoric.However, I trust that by that day,we shall have passed this present financial calamity.Perhaps by then we will be able to afford the luxuryof just sitting in an audiencewith no other purposethan to witness the human form in motion.(Music)(Applause)
