时间： 0:11
zh-cn:苹果机是大概25，26年前发明的，那是在人机界面的历史中，甚至是在整个计算机领域的一个令人叹为观止的革命性的创新。它从根本上改变了人们对于计算的理解模式，对电脑的理解和使用方式，使得更多的各种各样的人都能够使用电脑。那是一个很彻底的改变，事实上，早期的苹果机开发团队在&#39;82，&#39;83，&#39;84年不得不完全从零开始写一个全新的操作系统。那么现在，我想传达一个有趣的观点，或者说这是从苹果机问世之后被遗忘或者丢失的一个教训：操作系统就是界面本身，界面其实就是操作系统。这就像在《阿瑟王》里面的土地和国王，两者不可分割，两者其实是一体的。在当时写一个新的操作系统并不是一个难以捉摸的事情，它也不仅仅是只要调整和修改一些图形显示顺序和模式。其实当时没有什么图形显示流程，也没有鼠标驱动程序。所以当时全部改写操作系统是唯一的选择。
en:We&#39;re 25, 26 years afterthe advent of the Macintosh,which was an astoundingly seminal eventin the historyof human-machine interfaceand in computation in general.It fundamentally changed the waythat people thought about computation,thought about computers,how they used them and who and how many people were able to use them.It was such a radical change, in fact,that the early Macintosh development teamin &#39;82, &#39;83, &#39;84had to write an entirely new operating system from the ground up.Now, this is an interesting little message,and it&#39;s a lesson that has since, I think,been forgotten or lost or something,and that is, namely, that the OS is the interface.The interface is the OS.It&#39;s like the land and the king (i.e. Arthur) they&#39;re inseparable, they are one.And to write a new operating system was not a capricious matter.It wasn&#39;t just a matter of tuning up some graphics routines.There were no graphics routines. There were no mouse drivers.So it was a necessity.
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:但在此后的25年里，我们看到了所有基本的相关技术迅猛发展。比如，内存和硬盘容量已经翻了差不多1万到1百万倍。处理器速度也是如此。而网络，在苹果机出现的时候还根本没有网络，现在它已经成为我们生活中与电脑共处的一个最突出的不可或缺的东西。当然，还有图形处理能力：现在你花84.97美元在百思买（Best Buy）公司能买到比10年前要用1百万美元从专业的SGI图形服务器更多的图形处理能力。总之，我们的技术已经得到了不可思议的发展。然后，在另一方面，我们有网络，和越来越多的云计算服务，非常棒。但是那些东西对于在人机界面是基本内容的方面，也是一个分散注意力的因素，导致我们忘记了要去创造新的界面。当然，在近几年我们已经看到了这方面的很多变化，人们已经开始有所醒悟。那么接下来会怎么发展？界面的发展方向和远景如何？
en:But in the quarter-century since then,we&#39;ve seen all of the fundamentalsupporting technologies go berserk.So memory capacity and disk capacityhave been multiplied by something between 10,000 and a million.Same thing for processor speeds.Networks, we didn&#39;t have networks at allat the time of the Macintosh&#39;s introduction,and that has become the single most salient aspectof how we live with computers.And, of course, graphics: Today84 dollars and 97 cents at Best Buybuys you more graphics powerthan you could have gotten for a million bucks from SGI only a decade ago.So we&#39;ve got that incredible ramp-up.Then, on the side, we&#39;ve got the Weband, increasingly, the cloud,which is fantastic,but also — in the regard in which an interface is fundamental —kind of a distraction.So we&#39;ve forgotten to invent new interfaces.Certainly we&#39;ve seen in recent years a lot of change in that regard,and people are starting to wake up about that.So what happens next? Where do we go from there?
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:我们认为这其中的难题可以用一个简单的词来概括：“空间”，或者一个简单的词组：“真实世界的几何形状。”计算机和我们用来沟通和指挥它们的编程语言，当涉及到空间的时候都是无可救药的。它们不能理解现实世界的空间。空间是一个有意思的东西，因为所有我们人类相当频繁和理所当然地占据它。它们也不理解时间，不过那是另一个需要单独谈的话题。
en:The problem, as we see it,has to do with a single, simple word: &quot;space,&quot;or a single, simple phrase:&quot;real world geometry.&quot;Computers and the programming languagesthat we talk to them in, that we teach them in,are hideously insensate when it comes to space.They don&#39;t understand real world space.It&#39;s a funny thing because the rest of us occupy it quite frequently and quite well.They also don&#39;t understand time, but that&#39;s a matter for a separate talk.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:那如果你开始向它们解释空间会怎么样？你可能会搞出一个像光照室之类的东西。光照室是一个把空间作为输入和输出并且相互关联的一个系统。这是一个其实很简单但是尚未挖掘的想法。你看，当你用鼠标的时候，你的手放在这个地方的鼠标垫上，而这里甚至不是你要讲的东西所在的同一个平面，那些像素在高高的显示屏上。那么这个房间，里面的所有墙壁，地板，天花板，宠物，盆栽植物，不管是里面的什么，都不仅仅只能显示，并且能够感应。这意味着输入和输出都在同一个空间，能做些这之类的事情。这是一个里面有电子存储器的一个实际容器，它会像现实世界中的实际容器一样有相同的反应。不管你往里面放了什么，总是要倒出来的。这个设计的办公室小实验还能做一些其他有意思的事情。如果你给它一个棋盘，它会尽量想出你可能想干什么。如果你把棋盘移开，这些棋子没事可干，不一会儿它们觉得无聊就会跳开了。
en:So what happens if you start toexplain space to them?One thing you might get is something like the Luminous Room.The Luminous Room is a systemin which it&#39;s considered thatinput and output spaces are co-located.That&#39;s a strangely simple,and yet unexplored idea, right?When you use a mouse, your hand is down here on the mouse pad.It&#39;s not even on the same plane as what you&#39;re talking about:The pixels are up on the display.So here was a room in which all the walls, floors, ceilings,pets, potted plants, whatever was in there,were capable, not only of display but of sensing as well.And that means input and output are in the same spaceenabling stuff like this.That&#39;s a digital storage in a physical container.The contract is the sameas with real word objects in real world containers.Has to come back out, whatever you put in.This little design experimentthat was a small office here knew a few other tricks as well.If you presented it with a chess board,it tried to figure out what you might mean by that.And if there was nothing for them to do,the chess pieces eventually got boredand hopped away.
时间： 3:29
zh-cn:主管这项研究的学者认为它太没份量，所以我们后来做了一些非常严肃的应用，比如这个光学试验台，把牙膏帽放在纸箱子上做成激光器，用实际的物体做成光束分离器和镜头，这个系统沿着激光光路方向投射。所以这个界面其实可以说是没有界面的，你操作这个东西就和你在实际世界中操作一样，也就是说，用你的手直接操作。类似地，这里是一个数码风洞，数码风从右向左吹。从某种程度上说，这个并不很牛，因为我们没有发明这个东西的数学计算方式。但是如果你把它显示在投射或平板显示器上，然后随便举着一个东西，一个现实世界中的物体，它不会有任何含义。而在这里，现实世界与这个模拟空间融合在了一起。
en:The academics who were overseeing this workthought that that was too frivolous,so we built deadly serious applicationslike this optics prototyping workbenchin which a toothpaste cap on a cardboard boxbecomes a laser.The beam splitters and lenses are represented by physical objects,and the system projects down the laser beam path.So you&#39;ve got an interface that has no interface.You operate the world as you operate the real world,which is to say, with your hands.Similarly, a digital wind tunnel with digital windflowing from right to left —not that remarkable in a sense; we didn&#39;t invent the mathematics.But if you displayed that on a CRT or flat panel display,it would be meaningless to hold up an arbitrary object,a real world object in that.Here, the real world merges with the simulation.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:最后我们把所有元素综合到一起，组成这个给城镇规划师用的“城规”系统，这个系统提供了建筑师和城市规划师使用计算机辅助设计系统（CAD）所没有的功能模型，使得他们操作机器有一个更加友好的界面。它向下投射数码阴影，就像这个样子。如果你拿来一些工具比如这个时钟模型，那么你可以模拟太阳的移动。这是上午8点的阴影，上午9点的时候变得短一点。再继续，可以把太阳旋转一周，中午的阴影就更短，等等。我们还做了类似的一系列工具，有连小孩都会操作的阴影交互研究工具，即使他们对城市规划一无所知。要移动一栋楼房只要用你的手去移就可以了。用一根棍子去碰一下能使这个建筑反射各个方向的光线，就像法兰克•盖瑞（Frank Gehry ）风格的建筑。它会不会让路人和旁边高速公路上的司机觉得太耀眼？区域规划工具可以把远处的物体，建筑和道路连接起来，来看看有没有被区域规划委员会起诉的风险，等等。现在如果大家似乎听过这些想法或者甚至觉得有点过时，很好，大家应该听说过那些东西。
en:And finally, to pull out all the stops,this is a system called Urp, for urban planners,in which we give architects and urban planners backthe models that we confiscatedwhen we insisted that they use CAD systems.And we make the machine meet them half way.It projects down digital shadows, as you see here.And if you introduce tools like this inverse clock,then you can control the sun&#39;s position in the sky.That&#39;s 8 a.m. shadows.They get a little shorter at 9 a.m.There you are, swinging the sun around.Short shadows at noon and so forth.And we built up a series of tools like this.There are inter-shadowing studiesthat children can operate,even though they don&#39;t know anything about urban planning:To move a building, you simply reach out your hand and you move the building.A material wand makes the buildinginto a sort of Frank Gehry thing that reflects light in all directions.Are you blinding passers by and motorists on the freeways?A zoning tool connects distant structures, a building and a roadway.Are you going to get sued by the zoning commission? And so forth.Now, if these ideas seem familiaror perhaps even a little dated,that&#39;s great; they should seem familiar.
时间： 5:19
zh-cn:这项工作是15年前的了，是在麻省理工学院媒体实验室的石井洋（Hiroshi Ishii）教授的非凡指导下进行的，他也是有形媒体集团的董事。世界著名制片设计师阿历克斯•麦道威尔（Alex McDowell）也看到了这项工作。但是阿历克斯当时正准备为史蒂芬•斯皮尔伯格做一个有点难懂的独立制片的电影，叫作“少数派报告（Minority Report）”，他从麻省理工学院把我们邀请出来设计影片里面需要的界面。这个事情的伟大之处在于阿历克斯是如此热诚地追求逼真，一定要让电影里面描述的2054年是可信的，他让我们把他的设计拿过来用，当作是研发出来的。其结果是令人高兴的，给人留下了长久的印像。在谈到新的用户界面设计的时候，人们还会提到在“少数派报告”里面那些序列。这个事情使得我们以一种独特的方式把那些想法做成了我们认定必然是末来的人机界面，我们称之为空间操作环境。
en:This work is 15 years old.This stuff was undertaken at MIT and the Media Labunder the incredible direction of Professor Hiroshi Ishii,director of the Tangible Media Group.But it was that work that was seenby Alex McDowell,one of the world&#39;s legendary production designers.But Alex was preparing a little, sort of obscure, indie, arthouse filmcalled &quot;Minority Report&quot; for Steven Spielberg,and invited us to come out from MITand design the interfacesthat would appear in that film.And the great thing about it wasthat Alex was so dedicated to the idea of verisimilitude,the idea that the putative 2054that we were painting in the film be believable,that he allowed us to take on that design workas if it were an R&amp;D effort.And the result is sort ofgratifyingly perpetual.People still reference those sequences in &quot;Minority Report&quot;when they talk about new UI design.So this led full circle, in a strange way,to build these ideas into what we believeis the necessary future of human machine interface:the Spatial Operating Environment, we call it.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:这里我们有一堆东西，一些图像。用一只手，我们就可以操作六维自由度，6维导航。现在飞过贝克特先生的眼睛，有点意思。从这个可怕的猩猩身上回来，穿梭自如。现在我们做些有点难度的东西。这里我们有一大堆分散开的图像，我们可以在它们中间穿梭。所以说导航是一个根本问题，你必须要能在三维空间导航。大部分我们首先需要电脑帮助的其实自然而然的就是空间，而那些不是空间的往往可以使之空间化，让我们的脑袋能够更容易地理解它们。请看，我们可以把这些东西用许多不同的方式展开，可以像这样把它们扔开。把它们重新排列一下，我们可以把它列成这个样子。
en:So here we have a bunch of stuff, some images.And, using a hand,we can actually exercise six degrees of freedom,six degrees of navigational control.And it&#39;s fun to fly through Mr. Beckett&#39;s eye.And you can come back outthrough the scary orangutan.And that&#39;s all well and good.Let&#39;s do something a little more difficult.Here, we have a whole bunch of disparate images.We can fly around them.So navigation is a fundamental issue.You have to be able to navigate in 3D.Much of what we want computers to help us with in the first placeis inherently spatial.And the part that isn&#39;t spatial can often be spatializedto allow our wetware to make greater sense of it.Now we can distribute this stuff in many different ways.So we can throw it out like that. Let&#39;s reset it.We can organize it this way.
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:当然，界面不只是为了导航而已，操纵同样重要。那么，如果有我们不喜欢的东西，或者我们对恩斯特•海克尔的学术造假十分好奇，可以这样把它们抽出来。然后如果需要作分析，我们可以把它们往后拉一点点，然后重新排列一下。我们向下面走一点，把它们转动起来。这又是另一个看东西的不同的方式。如果你还想进一步分析研究，那么实际上你可能想用柱状图来看这些东西。所以现在我们已经把这些东西按照颜色排序，角度也对应颜色。现在，如果我们想从三维的空间里面选出东西——在实际空间中感应跟踪手的动作这个想法非常重要，因为只有这样我们才能在真正的三维空间中，而不是在二维或伪二维空间中操作——这里是一些选择平面，我们现在演示的这个操作能把我们喜欢的黄色和在绿色草地上的貘找出来。
en:And, of course, it&#39;s not just about navigation,but about manipulation as well.So if we don&#39;t like stuff,or we&#39;re intensely curious aboutErnst Haeckel&#39;s scientific falsifications,we can pull them out like that.And then if it&#39;s time for analysis, we can pull back a little bitand ask for a different distribution.Let&#39;s just come down a bitand fly around.So that&#39;s a different way to look at stuff.If you&#39;re of a more analytical naturethen you might want, actually, to look at thisas a color histogram.So now we&#39;ve got the stuff color-sorted,angle maps onto color.And now, if we want to select stuff,3D, space,the idea that we&#39;re tracking hands in real spacebecomes really important because we can reach in,not in 2D, not in fake 2D, but in actual 3D.Here are some selection planes.And we&#39;ll perform this Boolean operationbecause we really love yellow and tapirs on green grass.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:现在，我们演示一些实用的系统。这是一个物流系统，是我们目前正在做的一个项目的一小块。这个项目包括很多方面，其中一个十分重要的因素是要把传统的表格数据和三维地理空间信息结合起来。这里有一个我们熟悉的地方，我们把它拖过来一点看看。要不我们挑一点东西出来，把这个图取出来。那么我们现在应该能够飞到这里面去，看个清楚。这些都是散布在美国各地的物流系统的组成部分。
en:So, from there to the world of real work.Here&#39;s a logistics system,a small piece of one that we&#39;re currently building.There&#39;re a lot of elements.And one thing that&#39;s very important is to combine traditional tabular datawith three-dimensional and geospatial information.So here&#39;s a familiar place.And we&#39;ll bring this back here for a second.Maybe select a little bit of that.And bring out this graph.And we should, now,be able to fly in hereand have a closer look.These are logistics elementsthat are scattered across the United States.
时间： 9:16
zh-cn:三维互动以及把计算和空间信息相融合的想法彻底淘汰了一对一的人机界面，那是过时的方式和思维习惯，对吧，一台机器，一个人，一个鼠标，一个屏幕。显然，这已经不那么好使了。因为在现实世界中，我们合作，我们需要协同工作，而且我们有很多不同的显示模式。现在我们来看看这些不同的图像，这个过程中可能会要人帮一下忙。
en:One thing that three-dimensional interactionsand the general idea of imbuingcomputation with space affords youis a final destruction of that unfortunateone-to-one pairing between human beings and computers.That&#39;s the old way, that&#39;s the old mantra:one machine, one human, one mouse, one screen.Well, that doesn&#39;t really cut it anymore.In the real world, we have people who collaborate;we have people who have to work together,and we have many different displays.And we might want to look at these various images.We might want to ask for some help.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:发明这个新的指挥棒的人就坐在那边，那么我把这个东西从这里拖到那里。这些机器都是不相关的，你要知道。因此，这里的计算都是与空间和网络相融合的。我把那个东西留在那边，因为我有一个问题要问保罗。保罗是这个指挥棒的设计师，所以也许让他到这里来亲口告诉我是最简单直接的。那么我现在把这些东西挪开一点。现在把这个分解开，继续把它爆炸开。凯文，能来帮一下忙吗？让我看看是否能帮助找到电路板。你要知道，这看起来像是一个没什么必要的现场演示，其实我们经常在实验室里面这样做。差不多了。因此，协同工作始终是很重要的，不管是在同一个空间靠得很近还是相距遥远各不相同。再强调一下，这些东西是需要在空间环境中操作的。
en:The author of this new pointing deviceis sitting over there,so I can pull this from there to there.These are unrelated machines, right?So the computation is space soluble and network soluble.So I&#39;m going to leave that over therebecause I have a question for Paul.Paul is the designer of this wand, and maybe its easiestfor him to come over here and tell me in person what&#39;s going on.So let me get some of these out of the way.Let&#39;s pull this apart:I&#39;ll go ahead and explode it.Kevin, can you help?Let me see if I can help us find the circuit board.Mind you, it&#39;s a sort of gratuitous field-stripping exercise,but we do it in the lab all the time.All right.So collaborative work, whether it&#39;s immediately co-locatedor distant and distinct, is always important.And again, that stuffneeds to be undertaken in the context of space.
时间：10:55
zh-cn:最后，我想和大家一起再回到图像世界。这个系统叫作“摊牌（Tamper）”，它稍微有点超前，想看看未来的编辑和媒体运用系统将是什么样的。作为欧布隆（Oblong）公司的成员，我们相信应该能够更精细地运用和操作媒体素材，所以这里面有一大堆电影资料。现在我们从里面挑出一些素材。我们可以很快地浏览过去，把想要的素材抓出来放在最上面的一层，在那里它们恢复成能活动的，现在把它拖过来放到这个桌子上。然后我们到雅克•塔蒂这里来把这个蓝色的朋友也放在桌子上，可能还要一个。老实说，我们可能还需要一个牛仔，对吧。（大家笑）啊，在这里，就要这个。（大家笑）你们看，牛仔来了那个法国搞笑片的角色就走了，系统知道他们在一起搞不来。
en:And finally, I&#39;d like to leave you with a glimpsethat takes us back to the world of imagery.This is a system called TAMPER,which is a slightly whimsical lookat what the future of editingand media manipulation systems might be.We at Oblong believe that media should beaccessible in much more fine-grained form.So we have a large number of moviesstuck inside here.And let&#39;s just pick out a few elements.We can zip through themas a possibility.We can grab elements off the front,where upon they reanimate, come to life,and drag them down onto the table here.We&#39;ll go over to Jacques Tati hereand grab our blue friendand put him down on the table as well.We may need more than one.And we probably need,well, we probably need a cowboyto be quite honest.(Laughter)Yeah, let&#39;stake that one.(Laughter)You see, cowboys and French farce peopledon&#39;t go well together, and the system knows that.
时间：12:11
zh-cn:让我最后再谈一个想法，就是过去三十年一个最伟大的英语作家说的，伟大的艺术和造诣是需要天赋的。他谈的不是一本小说的价钱是24.95美元，还是维米尔（Vermeer）的流失的名画价值7000万美元，而是它们的创造过程和存在于社会的意义。我认为，现在也正是我们应该向科学技术提出同样的要求的时候。科学技术有表达的能力，也能够慷慨地为人所用，实际上我们应该向技术要求这个。对于一些类似这种技术，它的核心是设计的组合，这是极为重要的。我们不可能在技术上有任何的进步，除非在最开始就把设计集成在研发过程中，以及功效和途径。我们，作为人类，有创造力的生物，应该确保机器能在这方面帮助我们，并且按照人的形像来设计和制造机器。
en:Let me leave with one final thought,and that is thatone of the greatest English language writersof the last three decadessuggested that great art is always a gift.And he wasn&#39;t talking about whether the novel costs 24.95 [dollars],or whether you have to spring 70 million bucksto buy the stolen Vermeer;he was talking about the circumstances of its creationand of its existence.And I think that it&#39;s time that we askedfor the same from technology.Technology is capable ofexpressing and being imbued witha certain generosity,and we need to demand that, in fact.For some of this kind of technology,ground center isa combination of design, which is crucially important.We can&#39;t have advances in technology any longerunless design is integrated from the very start.And, as well, as of efficacy, agency.We&#39;re, as human beings, the creatures that create,and we should make sure that our machines aid us in that taskand are built in that same image.
时间：13:12
zh-cn:那么我今天就讲到这里。谢谢大家。
en:So I will leave you with that. Thank you.
时间：13:14
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：13:29
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森：我来问一个直白的问题——实际上是比尔•盖茨问的——什么时候？ （约翰•安德可夫勒：什么时候？）克里斯•安德森：什么时候我们大家都能用上？不只是在实验室或者在这样的讲台上？这个界面是每个个人都能用上的还是只给企业和电影公司的？
en:Chris Anderson: So to ask the obvious question —actually this is from Bill Gates —when? (John Underkoffler: When?)CA: When real? When for us, not just in a lab and on a stage?Can it be for every man, or is this just for corporations and movie producers?
时间：13:44
zh-cn:约翰•安德可夫勒：当然是每个人都能用上的。这是我们的整个目标。我们要获得成功，就必须迈出下一个重要的一步。我的意思是我们已经研究了25年了，难道真的只能有一种用户界面？当然不是。
en:JU: No, it has to be for every human being.That&#39;s our goal entirely.We won&#39;t have succeededunless we take that next big step.I mean it&#39;s been 25 years.Can there really be only one interface? There can&#39;t.
时间：13:56
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森：但是这是否意味着在办公桌或家里，你需要有投影机，数码相机？对吧，怎么普及这个界面？
en:CA: But does that mean that, at your desk or in your home,you need projectors, cameras?You know, how can it work?
时间：14:03
zh-cn:约翰•安德可夫勒：不用，这个界面会集成到每个显示屏，与计算机系统成为一体。在几个月或几年之后就不用手套了。这是毫无疑问的。
en:JU: No, this stuff will be built into the bezel of every display.It&#39;ll be built into architecture.The gloves go away in a matter of months or years.So this is the inevitability about it.
时间：14:12
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森：那么，你觉得5年之后，这个东西会是一个普通计算机界面的一部分？
en:CA: So, in your mind, five years time,someone can buy this as part ofa standard computer interface?
时间：14:18
zh-cn:约翰•安德可夫勒：我认为五年之后你买电脑就会得到这样的界面。
en:JU: I think in five years time when you buy a computer,you&#39;ll get this.
时间：14:23
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森：嗯，这还不错。（鼓掌）这个世界经常会产生一些让我们意想不到的方式来使用这之类的东西。你觉得，在你的脑袋里面，这个界面的第一个最火爆的应用会是什么？
en:CA: Well that&#39;s cool.(Applause)The world has a habit of surprising us as to how these things are actually used.What do you think, what in your mind is the first killer app for this?
时间：14:35
zh-cn:约翰•安德可夫勒：这是一个很好的问题，我们也每天问自己这个问题。目前，我们的早期客户，他们在现实世界中用这个系统，用它来做各种各样数据密集型的数据处理问题，包括供应链管理中的物流，天然气等资源开采，金融服务，制药，生物信息，等等，这些都是现在的应用，但是并不是火爆的杀手级应用。我明白你问的是什么。
en:JU: That&#39;s a good question, and we ask ourselves that every day.At the moment, our early-adopter customers —and these systems are deployed out in the real world —do all the big data intensive, data heavy problems with it.So, whether it&#39;s logistics and supply chain managementor natural gas and resource extraction,financial services, pharmaceuticals, bioinformatics,those are the topics right now, but that&#39;s not a killer app.And I understand what you&#39;re asking.
时间：14:59
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森：直说吧，武术，游戏。坦白吧。（大家笑）约翰，非常感谢你把科幻做成真实。
en:CA: C&#39;mon, c&#39;mon. Martial arts, games. C&#39;mon.(Laughter)John, thank you for making science-fiction real.
时间：15:06
zh-cn:约翰•安德可夫勒：很高兴做这个演讲。谢谢大家。
en:JU: It&#39;s been a great pleasure.Thank you to you all.
时间：15:10
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
