时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我在加拿大的一所小村庄长大,同时我也有未确疹的阅读障碍症.所以我在上学时相当的困难。确切地说, 我母亲最后告诉我我是村里那个总是一路哭着到学校的小孩儿.我选择了离开.25岁的时候我去了巴厘岛.在那儿我遇到了我那不可思议的妻子, Cynthia,并在一起20多年了.我们创立了一个令人惊羡的珠宝业.就象个童话, 接着我们退休了.之后她带我去看了部电影我实际上不想看的.它毁了我的人生 —(一阵笑声)&quot;难以忽视的真相” 还有戈尔先生.我有四个孩子,即使他所说的只有一部分是真的,他们也不会拥有我曾经有过的生活.在那一刻, 我做了决定我将用我的余生尽我所能去增加他们的机会.这是全世界,这里是我们的所在地, 巴厘岛.它是个极小、极小的小岛 —60英里乘90英里.岛上的文化是原汁原味的印度教。Cynthia 和我曾经住在那儿.在那里我们曾经过着完美的生活,然后我们决定做点儿与众不同的事情.我们决定回馈给当地的人.
en:I grew upin a very small village in Canada,and I&#39;m an undiagnoseddyslexic.I had a really hard time in school.In fact, my mother told me eventuallythat I was the little kid in the villagewho cried all the way to school.I ran away.I left when I was 25 years old to go to Bali,and there I met my incredible wife, Cynthia,and together, over 20 years,we built an amazing jewelry business.It was a fairy tale, and then we retired.Then she took me to see a filmthat I really didn&#39;t want to see.It ruined my life —(Laughter)&quot;The Inconvenient Truth&quot; and Mr. Gore.I have four kids,and even if part of what he says is true,they&#39;re not going to have the life that I had.And I decided at that momentthat I would spend the rest of my lifedoing whatever I couldto improve their possibilities.So here&#39;s the world,and here we are in Bali.It&#39;s a tiny, little island —60 miles by 90 miles.It has an intact Hindu culture.Cynthia and I were there.We had had a wonderful life there,and we decided to do something unusual.We decided to give backlocally.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:这就是, 绿色环保学校.我知道它看上去不像个学校,但这是我们所决定做的,而且它非常,非常环保.教室之间没有墙.教师在竹制的黑板上教课.书桌不是方的.在绿色环保学校里, 孩子们都在笑 —这是在学校里一件不寻常的事请, 尤其是对我而言.而且我们实践整体论.对我来说这就是个想法,如果一个小女孩,发展成一个完整的人,很有可能她需要靠整个世界 —整个世界 —为生.我们的孩子们花181天在这个盒子里上学.建造我学校的人同时也用同样的材料建造了监狱和疯人院。所以, 如果这位先生接受过全人教育,他还会坐在这儿吗?他会有更多的机遇吗?
en:And here it is: it&#39;s called the Green School.I know it doesn&#39;t look like a school,but it is something we decided to do,and it is extremely,extremely green.The classrooms have no walls.The teacher is writing on a bamboo blackboard.The desks are not square.At Green School, the children are smiling —an unusual thing for school, especially for me.And we practice holism.And for me it&#39;s just the ideathat, if this little girlgraduates as a whole person,chances areshe&#39;ll demand a whole world —a whole world —to live on.Our children spend 181 daysgoing to school in a box.The people that built my schoolalso built the prison and the insane asylumout of the same materials.So if this gentlemanhad had a holistic education,would he be sitting there?Would he have had more possibilities in his life?
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:教室采用自然光。它们很美. 它们是竹子.微风从中穿过.当天然的微风不够时,孩子们就会放泡泡,不过不是你所想的那种泡泡.这些气泡是由天然棉花和来自橡胶树的橡胶做成的.所以我们基本上把这个盒子变成了一个泡泡.而且这些孩子们懂得不费力的气候控制可能不是他们未来的一部分.我们每个月底付账单,但是真正付账单的人是我们的子孙.我们要教给孩子们世界不是不可毁灭的.这几个孩子在书桌上画了些涂鸦,那他们得多上两门课.第一门叫砂纸打磨.第二门叫再次上蜡.但自从那件事,他们拥有了那些书桌.他们知道他们可以掌控他们的世界.
en:The classrooms have natural light.They&#39;re beautiful. They&#39;re bamboo.The breeze passes through them.And when the natural breeze isn&#39;t enough,the kids deploy bubbles,but not the kind of bubbles you know.These bubbles are made from natural cottonand rubber from the rubber tree.So we basically turned the boxinto a bubble.And these kids knowthat painless climate controlmay not bepart of their future.We pay the bill at the end of the month,but the people that are really going to pay the billare our grandchildren.We have to teach the kidsthat the world is not indestructible.These kids did a little graffiti on their desks,and then they signed up for two extra courses.The first one was called sandingand the second one was called re-waxing.But since that happened,they own those desks.They know they can control their world.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:我们用电网; 我们不引以为荣.但一个了不起的巴黎能源替代公司将帮我们用太阳能替代了电网.还有这个东西,是世界上即将建造的第二个涡轮发电机,在高达2.5米落差的一条河中.当涡轮机降入时,它会产8,000瓦的电力,不分昼夜。你们知道这些是什么.这里没地方冲厕所.但是只要我们把废料和大量的水混在一起 —你们都很聪明, 算算吧.多少个人乘以多少水.根本没有足够的水.这些是堆肥厕所.学校里没人想知道它们.特别是校长.但是它们管用; 大家会使用它们, 而且大家都没问题.你们也应该考虑一下这么做.没有很多东西不管用.漂亮的的帆布和橡胶天窗在六个月内就被太阳毁掉了.我们只得换上可循环再用的塑料.教师们拖着巨大的聚氯乙烯白板进入教室,我们有些好点子.我们找来些旧的挡风玻璃, 把纸铁在背后就做成了白板的第一个替代品.
en:We&#39;re on the grid. We&#39;re not proud of it.But an amazing alternative energy company in Parisis taking us off the grid with solar.And this thingis the second vortex to be built in the world,in a two-and-a-half meter drop on a river.When the turbine drops in,it will produce 8,000 watts of electricity,day and night.And you know what these are.There&#39;s nowhere to flush.And as long as we&#39;re taking our wasteand mixing it with a huge amount of water —you&#39;re all really smart, just do the math.How many people times how much water.There isn&#39;t enough water.These are compost toilets,and nobody at the school wanted to know about them,especially the principal.And they work. People use them. People are okay.It&#39;s something you should think about doing.Not many things didn&#39;t work.The beautiful canvas and rubber skylightsgot eaten by the sun in six months.We had to replace them with recyclable plastic.The teachers dragged giant PVC whiteboardsinto the classrooms.So we had some good ideas:we took old automobile windshields, put paper behind themand created the first alternativeto the whiteboard.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:绿色环保学校位于巴厘岛中南方,在一个有20英亩那么大的延绵起伏的花园里.还有一条壮丽的河流穿过,你们可以从这儿看到我们是怎么过河的.有一天我接待了一位父亲, 他看起来有点疯狂.我说, &quot;欢迎来到绿色学校.&quot;他说, &quot;我在飞机上待了24个小时.&quot;我问他, &quot;为什么?&quot;他说, &quot;我曾有过一个关于绿色学校的梦,然后我看到一张这所绿色学校的照片,我就上飞机了.八月份我将带我的儿子们来.&quot;这是个了不起的事情.但更重要的是,大家在绿色学校周围建起绿色房屋,这样一来他们的孩子们可以走路上学.人们还带上了他们的绿色工业,希望还有他们的绿色餐饮业,到绿色学校来.这里变成了一个社区.变成了一个绿色环保的模范社区.我们得注意每一件事.铺过的路面不能有石油化学产品.没有铺过的路.这些是用手铺的火山石。没有人行道.人行道全是碎石路, 下雨时会淹.但它们绿色环保.
en:Green School sits in south-central Bali,and it&#39;s on 20 acresof rolling garden.There&#39;s an amazing river traveling through it,and you can see therehow we manage to get across the river.I met a father the other day; he looked a little crazed.I said, &quot;Welcome to Green School.&quot;He said, &quot;I&#39;ve been on an airplane for 24 hours.&quot;I asked him, &quot;Why?&quot;He said, &quot;I had a dream once about a green school,and I saw a picture of this green school,I got on an airplane.In August I&#39;m bringing my sons.&quot;This was a great thing.But more than that,people are building green houses around Green School,so their kids can walk to school on the paths.And people are bringing their green industries,hopefully their green restaurants,to the Green School.It&#39;s becoming a community.It&#39;s becoming a green model.We had to look at everything.No petrochemicals in the pavement.No pavement.These are volcanic stones laid by hand.There are no sidewalks.The sidewalks are gravel. They flood when it rains,but they&#39;re green.
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:这是学校的水牛.它正计划把那栅栏当晚餐.所有绿色学校的栅栏都是绿色环保的.最近当学前班的孩子们搬动了他们的大门他们发现栅栏是用木薯做的.他们把木薯根带回厨房,切成薄片然后做成美味的木薯片.景观美化我们想办法保留住在每个教室周围已经存在的花园。我们轻轻的把它们放进来.我们为这些家伙创造了空间这些巴厘岛上最后的黑猪.还有学校的母牛也想方设法地要代替运动场上的锄草机。
en:This is the school buffalo.He&#39;s planning to eat that fence for dinner.All the fences at Green School are green.And when the kindergarten kidsrecently moved their gate,they found out the fence was made out of tapioca.They took the tapioca roots up to the kitchen,sliced them thinly and made delicious chips.Landscaping.We manage to keep the garden that was thererunning right up to the edge of each of the classrooms.We dropped them gently in.We made space for these guyswho are Bali&#39;s last black pigs.And the school cowis trying to figure outhow to replace the lawnmoweron the playing field.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:这些年轻的女孩子生在一个以水稻为生的文化中,但她们知道一些鲜为人知的关于水稻的知识.她们懂得怎么栽种有机米,她们懂得怎么照顾它,她们懂得怎么收割和煮饭她们成为水稻周期的一部分.而且这将是她们在未来的宝贵技能。这个年轻人正在采摘一些有机蔬菜.我们每天为400人供应午餐.这可不是普通的午餐; 不靠煤气.巴厘岛上当地的妇女们靠烧锯末来烹调食物利用只有她们祖母才知道的秘密.做出来的食物非常的好吃.
en:These young ladiesare living in a rice culture,but they know something that few people know in a rice culture.They know how to plant organic rice,they know how to look after it,they know how to harvest and they know how to cook it.They&#39;re part of the rice cycleand these skills will be valuablefor them in their future.This young man is picking organic vegetables.We feed 400 people lunch every dayand it&#39;s not a normal lunch. There&#39;s no gas.Local Balinese womencook the food on sawdust burnersusing secrets that only their grandmothers know.The food is incredible.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:绿色学校是个先行者的所在地,在地方上和全球上.它也是一种全球化世界的缩影.这些孩子们来自25个国家.当我看他们在一起的时候,我知道他们正努力学习在未来怎么生活.绿色学校即将步入它的第三年有160个孩子.它是个你可以学习阅读 —我的最爱之一 —写作 — 虽然我很不擅长 —算术.但你也能学到其他的东西.你会学会用竹子建造.你会练习古老的巴厘艺术.这叫做水稻田里的泥巴摔跤.孩子们爱死它了.虽然他们的母亲们尚未被说服.
en:Green School is a place of pioneers,local and global.And it&#39;s a kind of microcosmof the globalized world.The kids are from 25 countries.When I see them together,I know that they&#39;re working outhow to live in the future.Green School is going into its third yearwith 160 children.It&#39;s a school where you do learn reading —one of my favorites —writing — I was bad at it —arithmetic.But you also learn other things.You learn bamboo building.You practiceancient Balinese arts.This is called mud wrestling in the rice fields.The kids love it.The mothers aren&#39;t quite convinced.
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:(一阵笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:我们一生中做过很多令人惊讶的事情,接着我们说, 好吧, 当地. 当地是什么意思?当地的意思是学校里20%的人必须是巴厘岛人.这是个很大的承诺.但我们是正确的.大家都从世界各地纷纷前来援助巴厘岛人奖学金,因为这些孩子将成为巴厘岛下一代的绿色环保带头人.教师们也是同样的多元化,和学生一样.激动人心的事是志愿者不断的涌现出来.一名来自爪哇的男子带来一种新的有机农艺.一位来自非洲的女子带来了音乐.这些教师和志愿者们有着坚定的信念要创造新一代的全球性的, 绿色环保的领袖人物.绿色学校效应 —我们不知道具体是什么.我们需要有人来研究它.但事实上, 学习方式不同的孩子们 —阅读困难症 —我们重新给他们起名为强化阅读 —在这些非常美丽的课堂里学得很棒.所有的孩子们都在茁壮成长.
en:We&#39;ve done a lot of outrageous things in our lives,and we said, okay, local, what does &quot;local&quot; mean?Local meansthat 20 percent of the population of the schoolhas to be Balinese,and this was a really big commitment.And we were right.And people are coming forwardfrom all over the worldto support the Balinese Scholarship Fund,because these kids will be Bali&#39;s next green leaders.The teachers are as diverseas the student body,and the amazing thingis that volunteers are popping up.A man came from Javawith a new kind of organic agriculture.A woman came from Africa with music.And together these volunteers and the teachersare deeply committedto creating a new generationof global, green leaders.The Green School effect —we don&#39;t know what it is.We need someone to come and study it.But what&#39;s happening, our learning-different kids —dyslexic —we&#39;ve renamed them prolexic —are doing well in these beautiful, beautiful classrooms.And all the kids are thriving.
时间：10:20
zh-cn:我们是怎么做到的呢?利用巨大的草.那就是竹子.它就像火车一样从地里冲出来.它能在两个月内长得和椰子树一样高.而且三年后就可以采割用来造这样的建筑.它和柚木一样结实, 密集.可以支撑起任何屋顶.当建筑师来后, 他们带来了这些东西,你们可能见过类似的东西.这个黄色的盒子叫行政办公区.(一阵笑声)我们把它压扁了, 重新考虑了一下,但主要是我们给它改名 —学校之心.这永远地改变了一切。它是个双螺旋体.里面有行政机关还有许多其它东西.
en:And how did we do all this?On giant grass.It&#39;s bamboo.It comes out of the ground like a train.It grows as high as a coconut tree in two monthsand three years later it can be harvestedto build buildings like this.It&#39;s as strong and dense as teakand it will hold up any roof.When the architects came, they brought us these things,and you&#39;ve probably seen things like this.The yellow box was called the administration complex.(Laughter)We squashed it, we rethought it,but mainly we renamed it&quot;the heart of school,&quot;and that changed everything forever.It&#39;s a double helix.It has administrators in itand many, many other things.
时间：11:12
zh-cn:建造它的难处在于 —当巴厘岛工人们看到长幅的设计图,他们看着设计图说, &quot;这是什么?&quot;所以我们造了大型的模型.由工程师来策划和建造.巴厘岛的木工喜欢这个方法用竹尺子来衡量,挑竹子来造建筑利用古老的技术,大部分用手工。那真是一片乱.巴厘岛的木工想和我们一样现代化,所以他们用金属棚架来造竹制建筑.当浮架撤掉后,我们发现我们建了个天主教堂,一个绿色环保的天主教堂,一个绿色环保教育的天主教堂。学校之心共用了七千米的的竹子.从地基完成时算起,三个月内就建成了地板和屋顶.它可能不是世界上最大的竹制建筑,但很多人相信它是最美的.
en:And the problem of building it —when the Balinese workerssaw long reams of plans,they looked at them and said, &quot;What&#39;s this?&quot;So we built big models.We had them engineered by the engineers.And Balinese carpenters like thismeasured them with their bamboo rulers,selected the bamboo and built the buildingsusing age-old techniques,mostly by hand.It was chaos.And the Balinese carpenters want to be as modern as we do,so they use metal scaffoldingto build the bamboo buildingand when the scaffolding came down,we realized that we had a cathedral,a cathedral to green,and a cathedral to green education.The heart of school has seven kilometersof bamboo in it.From the time the foundations were finished,in three months it had roofs and floors.It may not be the biggest bamboo building in the world,but many people believethat it&#39;s the most beautiful.
时间：12:23
zh-cn:这在你的社区里可行吗?我们相信是可以的.绿色学校是我们为全世界建的模型.是我们为巴厘岛造的模型.你们仅仅需要照搬这些简单的方案:从当地情况出发,让环境带头再想想你的孙辈会怎样建造.
en:Is this doable in your community?We believe it is.Green School is a model we built for the world.It&#39;s a model we built for Bali.And you just have to follow these simple, simple rules:be local,let the environment leadand think abouthow your grandchildren might build.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:所以, 戈尔先生, 谢谢你.你毁了我的生活,但你给予了我一个美丽的未来.如果你感兴趣, 想参与完成建造绿色学校以及在世界范围内接着建造50个，请来我们这里参观.
en:So, Mr. Gore, thank you.You ruined my life,but you gave me an incredible future.And if you&#39;re interested in being involvedin finishing Green Schooland building the next 50 around the world,please come and see us.
时间：13:04
zh-cn:谢谢.
en:Thank you.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
