时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今天我将给你们解析3个现代标志性的设计案例，我觉得自己是非常合适的人选来解释这些因为我有文学本科文凭。（笑声）但是我在电视圈里也是个小名人和一个狂热的设计作品收藏者，所以我很清楚这里面的猫腻。
en:Today I&#39;m going to unpack for youthree examples of iconic design,and it makes perfect sensethat I should be the one to do itbecause I have a Bachelor&#39;s degree in Literature.(Laughter)But I&#39;m also a famousminor television personalityand an avid collector ofDesign Within Reach catalogs,so I pretty much knoweverything there is.
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:现在，我很确定你们可以认出这个东西；你们当中的很多人很有可能见过它当你们的私人飞艇在过去的几天里降落在洛杉矶国际机场时。这个被称为主题大楼（Theme Building）；至于起这个名字的原因至今不明。并且这也许是我们在洛杉矶有远古外星人建筑的最好实例。
en:Now, I&#39;m sure yourecognize this object;many of you probably saw itas you were landing your private zeppelinsat Los Angeles International Airportover the past couple of days.This is known as the Theme Building;that is its name for reasonsthat are still very murky.And it is perhapsthe best example we have in Los Angelesof ancient extraterrestrial architecture.
时间： 1:04
zh-cn:它始建于1961年也是洛杉矶国际机场在建时尽管科学家们相信它可以追溯到公元前2000 年，当时它被用作一个繁忙的跨维空间港口，那些远古宇航员们他们首先开拓了这个殖民星球让我们这些种族脱离了野蛮，并且教会了我们语言和科技还有送给我们这个空中餐厅作为礼物。
en:It was first excavated in 1961as they were building LAX,although scientists believe thatit dates back to the year 2000Before Common Era,when it was used asa busy transdimensional space portby the ancient astronautswho first colonized this planetand raised our speciesfrom savagery by giving usthe gift of written languageand technology andthe gift of revolving restaurants.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:它被认为是一个古老太空港的替代品，当然，古老太空港指的是巨石阵并且它被认为是一个经过改进的干净的设计，没有了周围德鲁伊教挂像，并且显而易见的是，它有很方便进出的停车场。当它被建好后，它引领了一个新设计时代，即流线型古风的未来派设计也叫做“古吉（Googie 音译）”派，后来被等同于喷气机时代是个错误的说法。毕竟，古代宇航员并不常用喷气式飞机旅行，他们更喜欢乘坐由水晶头骨驱动的羽蛇。
en:It is thought to have beena replacement for the older space portslocated, of course, at Stonehengeand considered to bequite an improvementdue to the uncluttered design,the lack of druids hanging around all the timeand obviously, the much betteraccess to parking.When it was uncovered,it ushered in a new eraof streamlined, archaically futuristic designcalled Googie,which came to be synonymous withthe Jet Age, a misnomer.After all, the ancient astronauts who used itdid not travel by jet very often,preferring instead to travel by feathered serpentpowered by crystal skulls.
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:啊，是的，一张桌子。我们每天都会用的桌子。还有在它的上面，一个榨汁机（juicy salif）。这是由菲利普·斯塔克设计的，我相信现在他就在观众席里。你们一眼可以认出是斯塔克的设计因为它的精致，趣味感,创新性和暴力临头感。（笑声）
en:Ah yes, a table.We use these every day.And on top of it,the juicy salif.This is a design by Philippe Starck,who I believe is in the audience at this very moment.And you can tell it is a Starck designby its precision, its playfulness,its innovation andits promise of imminent violence.(Laughter)
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:这个设计很挑战你们的直觉 -它不是你们一眼就能认出的东西。它不是一个三脚叉一次可以叉到三个开胃菜，当然我想说这种三脚叉在外面休息室里会有些作用。尽管很明显,它的设计受到远古外星人的影响并且它很有宇宙太空感又是三角架样式，但它不是设计用来扎牢在你的大脑上并且吸取你的思想。事实上它是一个榨汁机一旦我说穿了，你就再也不会认为它是别的什么东西了。
en:It is a design that challenges your intuition —it is not what you think it is when you first see it.It is not a fork designedto grab three hors d&#39;oeuvres at a time,which would be useful out in the lobby,I would say.And despite its obviousinfluence by the ancient astronautsand its space agey-ness and tripodism,it is not somethingdesigned to attach to your brainand suck out your thoughts.It is in fact a citrus juicerand when I say that,you never see it as anything else again.
时间： 3:20
zh-cn:它不仅是是一个设计经典，更是一个实用设计的典范。你可以拿它回家，这与主题大楼不一样，它将永远待在原址上。它很实惠并且可以带回家，就像这样，把它放到厨房台面上 -不要把它放到抽屉里；相信我，我曾很努力的尝试过 -并且它会把你的厨房台面变成一个设计典范。另外，如果你家里拥有一个这个，让我告诉你一个你也许不知道的作用：当你熟睡的时候，它会活过来，并且在你的房子里走来走去，并且帮你查看信件，并且在你睡觉的时候默默的看着你。（掌声）
en:It is also not a monument to design,it is a monument to design&#39;s utility.You can take it home with you,unlike the Theme Building,which will stay where it is forever.This is affordableand can come home with youand, as such, it can siton your kitchen counter —it can&#39;t go in your drawers;trust me, I found that out the hard way —and make your kitchen counter intoa monument to design.One other thing about it,if you do have one at home,let me tell you one of the features you may not know:when you fall asleep,it comes aliveand it walks around your houseand goes through your mailand watches you as you sleep.(Applause)
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:好吧，这是个什么东西？我没有一点头绪，我不知道这是什么。它看起来很糟糕。是一块小电热板？我不清楚。有没有人知道？琦（Chi 音译）？它是...iPhone (苹果手机)，iPhone。哦，是的，是这样，我记起来了；我曾把浴室里的瓷砖都换成了它，在过去美好的日子里。（开个玩笑）
en:Okay, what is this object?I have no idea. I don&#39;t know what that thing is.It looks terrible. Is it a little hot plate?I don&#39;t get it.Does anyone know? Chi?It&#39;s an ... iPhone. iPhone.Oh yes, that&#39;s right, I remember those;I had my whole bathroom tilesredone with those back in the good old days.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:不，我有iPhone。我当然有。这是我非常喜欢的iPhone。这个小手机让我做很多很多事。我喜欢用它读书。我更喜欢用它购买图书，它不会让我感到不读书的内疚，因为我把图书买到手机上后就再也不会看它们一眼，这非常好。我可以每天用它举个例子，称牛的重量。
en:No, I have an iPhone. Of course I do.Here is my well-loved iPhone.I do so many things on this little device.I like to read books on it.More than that, I like to buy books on itthat I never have to feel guilty about not readingbecause they go in here and I never look at them againand it&#39;s perfect.I use it every day tomeasure the weight of an ox,for example.
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:我承认不时地，我会偶尔用它打个电话。好在我还没有完全忘记这个功能。这个设计就是当你第一眼看到它时，你会忘记它。它很容易就被忘记发生在2007年的你第一次触摸它时的震惊感，因为它普及的太快了，并且因为不知不觉间我们已经习惯这些手势操作并且成为我们日常生活的一部分。不像主题大楼，它不是外星科技。或者我应该说，它所做的是应用这些高科技——不同于在座的各位，对于世界上其他人来说，还是会感到非常陌生,，如同外星科技般的技术——并让这项高科技很快上手并被人熟悉使用。
en:Every now and then,I admit that I completea phone call on it occasionally.And yet I forget about it all the time.This is a designthat once you saw it,you forgot about it.It is easy to forget the gasp-inducementthat occurred in 2007 when you firsttouched this thing because it becameso quickly pervasiveand because of how instantlywe adopted these gesturesand made it an extension of our life.Unlike the Theme Building,this is not alien technology.Or I should say,what it did was it took technologywhich, unlike people in this room,to many other people in the world,still feels very alien,and made it immediately and instantly feelfamiliar and intimate.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:而且不像榨汁机设计，有一种强加于你大脑之上的胁迫，它是自然而然的附加到了你的大脑上。（笑声）并且你并没有注意到这种情况已经发生了。就说这么多了。我的名字叫约翰･霍奇曼。刚才我解释了设计。非常感激。
en:And unlike the juicy salif,it does not threatento attach itself to your brain,rather, it simplyattaches itself to your brain.(Laughter)And you didn&#39;t even notice it happened.So there you go. My name is John Hodgman.I just explained design.Thank you very much.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
