时间： 0:11
zh-cn:干我们这行的人，都相信图片是可以改变世界的。好吧，我们是很天真，我们又明亮的双眼和毛绒绒的尾巴。实际上，我们都知道，图片本身不会改变世界。但我们也清楚，摄影业刚发展起来的时候，图片就已经在人群中激起了波澜。而那些波澜就造成了变革。
en:In my industry,we believe that images can change the world.Okay, we&#39;re naive, we&#39;re bright-eyed and bushy-tailed.The truth is that we know that theimages themselves don&#39;t change the world,but we&#39;re also aware that, since the beginning of photography,images have provoked reactions in people,and those reactions have caused change to happen.
时间： 0:32
zh-cn:大家先看一组图片吧。如果你们没认出它们中的大部分，我会很吃惊的。这些都是被称作“具有代表性”的图片。太有代表性了，可能算陈词滥调了。实际上，它们非常有名。估计你都能认出他们的另一种形式。
en:So let&#39;s begin with a group of images.I&#39;d be extremely surprisedif you didn&#39;t recognize many or most of them.They&#39;re best described as iconic:so iconic, perhaps, they&#39;re cliches.In fact, they&#39;re so well-knownthat you might even recognize themin a slightly or somewhat different form.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:我觉得我们要的不止这些。我们需要更多。我们需要那些在关键问题上决不妥协的图片，那些超越国界，超越宗教的图片，那些让我们勇敢站出来做些什么的图片。也就是，去改变。这幅图，你们都见过。它改变了我们对物质世界的认知。我们从没在这个角度看我们的星球。很多人都把环保运动的开始，归功于人们第一次见到这样的地球，它那么小，那么脆弱。
en:But I think we&#39;re looking for something more.We&#39;re looking for something more.We&#39;re looking for images that shinean uncompromising light on crucial issues,images that transcend borders, that transcend religions,images that provoke usto step up and do something —in other words, to act.Well, this image you&#39;ve all seen.It changed our view of the physical world.We had never seen our planet from this perspective before.Many people credita lot of the birth of the environmental movementto our seeing the planet like thisfor the first time —its smallness, its fragility.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:四十年后，这些环保团体，逐渐意识到我们这个物种对环境的毁灭性破坏力。后来，我们开始对此采取行动。这些毁灭性破坏力表现在不同方面。比方说布伦特·斯蒂尔顿(Brent Stirton)在刚果拍摄的这些照片，这些大猩猩被人宰杀，可能你还会说它们被钉在十字架上。毫无疑问，这些照片在国际上引起了强烈反响。最近，海地的地震，让我们认识到了大自然本身的破坏力。
en:Forty years later, this group, more than most,are well aware of the destructive powerthat our species can wield over our environment.And at last, we appear to be doing something about it.This destructive power takes many different forms.For example, these images taken by Brent Stirtonin the Congo.These gorillas were murdered, some would even say crucified,and unsurprisingly,they sparked international outrage.Most recently,we&#39;ve been tragically reminded of the destructive power of nature itselfwith the recent earthquake in Haiti.
时间： 2:08
zh-cn:我觉得人类的自相残杀比上面说的那些可怕的多。萨缪尔·皮萨(Samuel Pisar)，一个奥斯威辛集中营的幸存者曾经说过（我在这里引用他的话），（纳粹对犹太人的）屠杀告诉我们，自然，即使是它最残忍的时候，和一个失去理智和道德准则的人比起来，还是要仁慈的多。
en:Well, I think what is far worseis man&#39;s destructive power over man.Samuel Pisar, an Auschwitz survivor, said,and I&#39;ll quote him,&quot;The Holocaust teaches us that nature,even in its cruelest moments,is benign in comparison with man,when he loses his moral compass and his reason.&quot;
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:人类还有其他的暴行。美军虐囚的骇人图片，还有这些关塔那摩的图片，都产生了深远影响。相较于这些照片本身，它们的公开，才是让政府改变政策的原因。有些人认为，是这些照片导致伊拉克的暴动进一步升级，它们比其他任何行动更有影响力。而且，这些照片永久性地摧毁了驻伊美军的所谓道德高地。
en:There&#39;s another kind of crucifixion.The horrifying images from Abu Ghraibas well as the images from Guantanamohad a profound impact.The publication of those images,as opposed to the images themselves,caused a government to change its policies.Some would argue that it is those imagesthat did more to fuel the insurgency in Iraqthan virtually any other single act.Furthermore, those images forever removedthe so-called moral high ground of the occupying forces.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:让我们回顾历史。上世纪六七十年代，越战的画面，在电视上反复播放。新闻图片让人们直面战争的受害者，被汽油弹烧伤的小女孩，一个在俄亥俄州的肯特州立大学参与抗议活动被镇压部队打死的学生。实际上，这些照片成为了最有力的抗议声音。
en:Let&#39;s go back a little.In the 1960s and 1970s,the Vietnam War was basically shownin America&#39;s living rooms day in, day out.News photos brought people face to facewith the victims of the war: a little girl burned by napalm,a student killed by the National Guardat Kent State University in Ohio during a protest.In fact, these images becamethe voices of protest themselves.
时间： 3:22
zh-cn:现在，照片有了让怀疑与无知重见光明的力量。尤其是关于艾滋病的议题——我做过很多这方面的演讲，这次就只给大家看一张照片——上世纪八十年代，对这种疾病的各种流言蜚语让多数人都不愿意讨论或提起它。1987年，世界上最著名的一个女人，作了一件简单的事情，戴安娜王妃，抚摸了一个受艾滋病毒感染的婴儿。这个举动消除了民众对艾滋病的误解，尤其在欧洲。她比多数人更清楚图片的力量。
en:Now, images have powerto shed light of understandingon suspicion, ignorance,and in particular — I&#39;ve given a lot of talks on thisbut I&#39;ll just show one image —the issue of HIV/AIDS.In the 1980s, the stigmatization of people with the diseasewas an enormous barrierto even discussing or addressing it.A simple act, in 1987, of the most famous woman in the world,the Princess of Wales, touchingan HIV/AIDS infected babydid a great deal, especially in Europe, to stop that.She, better than most, knew the power of an image.
时间： 3:57
zh-cn:当我们面对一张有影响力的照片时，我们都可以选择。我们可以看向别处，或者，我们可以让它为更多人所知。值得庆幸地是，当这些图片于1998年出现在英国《卫报》的时候，人们开始关注它，最后为苏丹饥荒的灾民，捐了很多钱。图片改变了世界吗？不，但他们产生了深远影响。图片常常让我们质疑自己的信念还有我们对彼此的责任。我们都看过卡特里纳飓风的图片，我想这些图片对几百万人，都产生了极大影响。在2008大选的时候，让美国人不去想那些照片是几乎不可能的。
en:So when we are confronted by a powerful image,we all have a choice:We can look away, or we can address the image.Thankfully, when these photos appeared inThe Guardian in 1998,they put a lot of focus and attention and, in the end, a lot of moneytowards the Sudan famine relief efforts.Did the images change the world?No, but they had a major impact.Images often push us to question our core beliefsand our responsibilities to each other.We all saw those images after Katrina,and I think for millions of peoplethey had a very strong impact.And I think it&#39;s very unlikelythat they were far from the minds of Americanswhen they went to vote in November 2008.
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:很遗憾的是，一些很重要的相片因为太“真实”而不能公开。这里有一张。这是尤金·理查兹(Eugene Richards)为一位伊战退伍老兵拍的。这个非同寻常的作品从来没有发表，它叫做“战争是每个人的”。让我们想起战争残酷性的照片，不一定都要如此“真实”。约翰·摩尔(John Moore)在亚灵顿公墓拍了这张照片。在世界上那么多冲突地区发生了那么多紧张的冲突，暴动之后这张来自世界上最安静角落的图片，才是让我感到最不安的。
en:Unfortunately, some very important imagesare deemed too graphic or disturbing for us to see them.I&#39;ll show you one photo here,and it&#39;s a photo by Eugene Richards of an Iraq War veteranfrom an extraordinary piece of work,which has never been published, called War Is Personal.But images don&#39;t need to be graphicin order to remind us of the tragedy of war.John Moore set up this photo at Arlington Cemetery.After all the tense moments of conflictin all the conflict zones of the world,there&#39;s one photograph from a much quieter placethat haunts me still, much more than the others.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:安塞尔·亚当斯(Ansel Adams)说（但我不同意他的看法），“人们从不拍照片，他们创作。”在我看来，创作的不是摄影师，而是你们。我们把赋予每一张照片，我们自己的价值观，自己的信念，这样，我们和图片产生了共鸣。我的公司拥有七千万照片，我的办公室有一张。就是它。我希望下次你们看到一张让你们产生灵感火花的照片时，最好想想为什么。我很清楚，我面前的这些听众，你们肯定都会做些什么的。
en:Ansel Adams said, and I&#39;m going to disagree with him,&quot;You don&#39;t take a photograph, you make it.&quot;In my view, it&#39;s not the photographer who makes the photo,it&#39;s you.We bring to each imageour own values, our own belief systems,and as a result of that, the image resonates with us.My company has 70 million images.I have one image in my office.Here it is.I hope that the next time you seean image that sparks something in you,you&#39;ll better understand why,and I know that speaking to this audience,you&#39;ll definitely do something about it.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:感谢所有的摄影师。
en:And thank you to all the photographers.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
