时间： 0:11
zh-cn:谢谢。今天在这我有两项任务。第一，我像告诉你一些关于花粉的知识让你相信它们不仅仅是让你打喷嚏的小东西。第二，让你们相信每一户家庭都应该有一台电子扫描显微镜。（笑声）花粉是花朵繁殖的一种方法。它把雄性细胞从一朵花传到另一朵。这就形成了基因的多样性，或者至少是植物基因的多样性。花粉最好不要与同株交配。对人来说也是如此。
en:Thank you. I have two missions here today.The first is to tell you something about pollen, I hope,and to convince you that it&#39;s more than just something that gets up your nose.And, secondly, to convince youthat every home really ought to have a scanning electron microscope.(Laughter)Pollen is a flower&#39;s way of making more flowers.It carries male sex cellsfrom one flower to another.This gives us genetic diversity,or at least it gives the plants genetic diversity.And it&#39;s really rather better not to mate with yourself.That&#39;s probably true of humans as well, mostly.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:花粉产生于花朵的花粉囊。每一个花粉囊中花粉多达10万粒。相当多产。不光是鲜亮的花朵有花粉；树和草也有。记住所有的谷类作物也是草。
en:Pollen is produced by the anthers of flowers.Each anther can carry up to 100,000 grains of pollen,so, it&#39;s quite prolific stuff.And it isn&#39;t just bright flowersthat have pollen; it&#39;s also trees and grasses.And remember that all our cereal crops are grasses as well.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:这是一张花粉的电子扫描显微照片。中间那个小洞，我们待会再讲。那是花粉管日后长出来的地方非常细的小管。直径是20微米，那粒花粉。大约就是50分之一毫米。但并不是所有的花粉都看上去如此简单。
en:Here is a scanning electron micrograph of a grain of pollen.The little hole in the middle, we&#39;ll come to a bit later,but that&#39;s for the pollen tubeto come out later on. A very tiny tube.So, that&#39;s 20 micrometers across,that pollen grain there.That&#39;s about a 50th of a millimeter.But not all pollen is quite so simple looking.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:这是Morina。我总是认为相当单调，这种植物以Morin命名，Morin是一名很有事业心的法国园艺师，事实上他是第一个出版种子目录的人，在1621年。让我们看一看它的花粉。我认为这很神奇。中间那个小洞是长出花粉管的地方。当花粉在另一朵Morina花上找到雌花柱头时，当然是在同种花上，会发生什么？我说过的，花粉携带着雄性细胞。如果你没有意识到过植物有性交，但事实上它们杂交，乱交还有各种各样新奇有趣的性交方式，真的。（笑声）
en:This is Morina. This is a plant —which I&#39;ve always thought to be rather tedious —named after Morin,who was an enterprising French gardener,who issued the first seed catalogin 1621.But anyway, take a look at its pollen.This is amazing, I think.That little hole in the middle there is for the pollen tube,and when the pollen finds its special female spotin another Morina flower,just on the right species, what happens?Like I said, pollen carries the male sex cells.If you actually didn&#39;t realize that plants have sex,they have rampant, promiscuousand really quite interesting and curious sex. Really.(Laughter) A lot.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:我要讲的不是关于植物的繁殖，而是花粉本身。那么，花粉有什么用呢？我听见你们问。首先，花粉很小。这我们知道。而且它生物性很活跃，得过花粉热的人会有体会。被风一吹，从树和草上散落的花粉，会导致花粉热。原因是，植物不得不散播大量的花粉以使之有机会到达另外一株同种植物上。
en:My story is actually not about plant propagation,but about pollen itself.&quot;So, what are pollen&#39;s properties?&quot; I hear you ask.First of all, pollen is tiny. Yes we know that.It&#39;s also very biologically active,as anyone with hay fever will understand.Now, pollen from plants, which are wind-dispersed —like trees and grasses and so on —tend to cause the most hay fever.And the reason for that is they&#39;ve got to chuck outmasses and masses of pollen to have any chanceof the pollen reaching another plant of the same species.
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:这有一些例子。如果你看一看这几张树的花粉的照片，它们很光滑。这样有利于被风吹走。无花果树，靠风传播。树，有很无趣的花，不是来吸引昆虫的。但是花粉很独特。这张我特别喜欢。这是蒙特雷松树的花粉，有很小的气囊，来帮助花粉传播的更远。记住，这些东西直径都大约只有30微米。
en:Here are some examples —they&#39;re very smooth if you look at them —of tree pollen that is meant to be carried by the wind.Again — this time, sycamore — wind-dispersed.So, trees: very boring flowers,not really trying to attract insects.Cool pollen, though.This one I particularly like.This is the Monterey Pine, which has little air sacksto make the pollen carry even further.Remember, that thing is just about 30 micrometers across.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:如果能让昆虫来传播将会更有效。这是一支蜜蜂的腿。上面沾满了一种锦葵属植物的花粉。这种非同寻常的漂亮的花来自红树棕榈.很艳丽，以此来吸引昆虫传粉。花粉上有些小倒钩。如果我们看一下。这些小倒钩能牢牢粘住昆虫，但是从这张图我们还能判断出其他东西，你可能看到一条裂缝如果这是地球这条裂缝就穿过赤道。这告诉我们这粒花粉已经成为化石了。我很自豪的说这是在伦敦附近找到的，5500万年前伦敦到处都是红树林。这难道不很酷吗？（笑声）
en:Now, it&#39;s much more efficient if you can get insects to do your bidding.This is a bee&#39;s legwith the pollen glommed onto it from a mallow plant.And this is the outrageous and beautifulflower of the mangrove palm.Very showy, to attract lots of insects to do its bidding.The pollen has little barbs on it,if we look.Now, those little barbsobviously stick to the insects well,but there is something else that we can tell from this photograph,and that is that you might be able to see a fracture lineacross what would be the equator of this, if it was the Earth.That tells me that it&#39;s actually been fossilized, this pollen.And I&#39;m rather proud to saythat this was found just near London, and that 55 million years agoLondon was full of mangroves.Isn&#39;t that cool?(Laughter)
时间： 3:59
zh-cn:好了，这是另一种由昆虫传粉的植物。我们可以从这些小倒钩上判断出这一点。所有这些图片都是用电子扫描显微镜拍摄的事实上是在Kew实验室中拍的。当然这些都是由罗布 凯斯勒拍摄的他是一名艺术家。我认为这不是巧合，一位像他那样带着目的和艺术的眼光来拍摄已经把花粉最美的东西表现出来了。（笑声）
en:Okay, so this is another species evolved to be dispersed by insects.You can tell that from the little barbs on there.All these pictures were taken with a scanning electron microscope,actually in the lab at Kew Laboratories.No coincidence that these were takenby Rob Kesseler, who is an artist,and I think it&#39;s someone with a design and artistic eyelike him that has managed to bring out the best in pollen.(Laughter)
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:所有这些多样性，意味着你可以看着一粒花粉然后说出它来自哪种植物。如果你有标本并想知道花粉出自何种植物这会非常简单。不同种类的植物在不同的地区生长。一些花粉比其它的传播的更远。因此，如果你有一份花粉标本这样，原则上来说，你就应该能够判断出那个样本出自哪里。这便是法医学的有趣之处。
en:Now, all this diversitymeans that you can look at a pollen grainand tell what species it came from,and that&#39;s actually quite handy if youmaybe have a sample and you want to see where it came from.So, different species of plantsgrow in different places,and some pollen carries further than others.So, if you have a pollen sample,then in principle, you should be able to tellwhere that sample came from.And this is where it gets interesting for forensics.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:花粉很小。它接近物体，然后粘附在上面。不仅仅每一种花粉看上去不同，每一种环境都有不同的植物，不同的花粉特征，你也可以说不同的花粉指纹。通过看标本中各种花粉的比例和组合，你可以准确地判断出它来自哪里。这是附在棉衬衫上的花粉，这种衬衫跟我现在穿的相似。很多花粉依然会留在那经过几次洗涤之后。它到过哪里？四种不同的环境可能看起来相似但是它们却有不同的花粉信号。事实上这很简单。这些照片都是在不同国家拍摄的。
en:Pollen is tiny. It gets on to things, and it sticks to them.So, not only does each type of pollen look different,but each habitat has a different combination of plants.A different pollen signature, if you like,or a different pollen fingerprint.By looking at the proportions and combinationsof different kinds of pollen in a sample,you can tell very precisely where it came from.This is some pollen embedded in a cotton shirt,similar to the one that I&#39;m wearing now.Now, much of the pollen will still be thereafter repeated washings.Where has it been?Four very different habitats might look similar,but they&#39;ve got very different pollen signatures.Actually this one is particularly easy, these pictures were all takenin different countries.
时间： 5:42
zh-cn:但是花粉鉴定之术可以非常精确。它被用来追踪假药在哪里制造的，钞票从哪来的，察看古董的出处认定它们确实是来自卖方说的地方。特别是在英国通过谋杀犯的衣物来追踪他们，可以缩小到一个很小的范围然后你可以让警犬来找到受害人。你可以辨认一件衣服在大约一千米之内这件衣服最近到过的地方然后放出狗。最后还有一种很不爽的方法，花粉鉴定应用到了波斯尼亚战争犯身上。一些罪犯被绳之以法应归功于花粉，这些花粉表明尸体被掩埋过，又挖出来，然后再埋在其他地方。
en:But pollen forensics can be very subtle.It&#39;s being used now to trackwhere counterfeit drugs have been made,where banknotes have come from,to look at the provenance of antiquesand see that they really did come from the placethe seller said they did.And murder suspects have been trackedusing their clothing,certainly in the U.K., to within an areathat&#39;s small enough that you can send in tracker dogsto find the murder victim.So, you can tell from a piece of clothingto within about a kilometer or so,where that piece of clothing has been recentlyand then send in dogs.And finally, in a rather grizzly way,the Bosnia war crimes;some of the people brought to trial were brought to trialbecause of the evidence from pollen,which showed that bodies had been buried,exhumed and then reburied somewhere else.
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:我希望我让你们开阔了眼界，如果你能原谅一些花粉的秘密在视觉上的双关性，顺便说一句，这是七叶树。在我们周围有看不见的美，每一粒花粉都有一个故事，事实上，我们每一个人也都有故事，基于在我们身上的花粉指纹。感谢Kew研究中心的同事。也感谢各地的花粉研究专家。（掌声）
en:I hope I&#39;ve opened your eyes,if you&#39;ll excuse the visual pun, (Laughter)to some of pollen&#39;s secrets.This is a horse chestnut.There is an invisible beauty all around us,each grain with a story to tell ...each of us, in fact, with a story to tellfrom the pollen fingerprint that&#39;s upon us.Thank you to the colleagues at Kew,and thank you to palynologists everywhere.(Applause)
