时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今天，我要跟大家聊一聊有关故事的收集通过一些与众不同的方式。这是我还很笨拙的时候画的一幅画。大家可以欣赏一下我那条气球图案的短腿儿紧身睡裤。好吧，那个时候我主要感兴趣于收集虚构的充满想象力的故事。恩，这张照片是我举着我的第一幅水彩画。最近，我愈发热衷于收集故事从现实生活当中——就是，真实的故事。并且，我特别热衷于收集我自己的故事，互联网上的故事，以及最近的，生活当中的故事，这也是近期我正在从事的一个对我来说全新的工作领域。那么，今天我将它们逐一地介绍给大家。首先，说说我自己的故事。这是2本我的随笔集。像这样的随笔集我有好多好多本，我是从最近八九年间开始保存它们的。无论我去哪我都会随身带着它们，并随时记录些什么，写一些我生活的经历。水彩画，一些我随手画下的看到的事物，干花，昆虫尸体，地铁票，生锈的硬币，名片，随笔。在这些本子里面大家可以找到我的那些零碎的时刻、感受以及我遇到的人。恩，大家可想而知，保存这些随笔集有些年头以后，我开始痴迷于收集不仅仅是我自己的人生经历，还包括其他人的人生经历。所以，我又开始收集偶然遇到的东西。这是我在纽约的一个排水沟旁拾到的一张照片大约是十年前了。在这张残破的黑白照片上我们可以看到一个女人的头像，在这张照片背后写着，“给亲爱的朱迪，一个声线酷似比尔·贝尔丽的女孩，”无论你做什么都开心快乐。”我切切实实地爱上了这个了解他人生活的片段的主意，而不需要了解整个的故事，知道它的一小部分就好剩下的部分我们可以尽情想象。这个收集生活中的小故事的想法让我产生了要做点什么的想法，过一会儿我会详细地讲这里面的故事。同时，那段时间我在布林斯顿大学主修计算机科学专业，并且，突然间我意识到它是可以实现的收集人们生活中的小故事，不仅是在街角，而是要通过互联网。与此同时，忽然间涌现出大量的人开始通过互联网来记录他们自己的生活，留下足迹。发博客、照片、想法、感受、观点，这一切对上网的人来说都是公开的，并且是有迹可循的。从这一点出发，我开始编写出一套计算机程序用它来筛选大量的相关信息，网民的足迹。这个项目持续了足足有一年半的时间。它叫做“我们感觉好”的。这个项目追踪浏览全球所有新近发布的博客每隔2-3分钟检查一次，搜索一些特定的词组“我感觉”和“现在，我觉得”以及在哪里发现的这些短句，并把这一整句记录下来接着会尝试收集分析出一些有关该作者的个人信息。例如他们的性别、年龄以及他们的地理位置还有当他们写下这些语句时的天气情况。这套程序每天可以收集到20万句左右的句子并持续这样进行了一年半的时间，至今它已经收集到了超过一千五十万条有关“我感觉”的句子。然后，我把它这样展示出来。这里出现的每个点代表着一个说英语国家的人的前几个小时的感受。每个点都是单独的一句话，来自单独的博客使用者。并且，这些点的颜色也代表了不同类型的感受，这些明亮颜色的点代表了喜悦，相反灰暗的颜色的点代表悲伤。这些点的直径也代表了它里面句子的长度情况。所以，我们看到这个小一点的点里面的句子很短，这个大一点的点里面的句子长些。“我感觉的的身材很好，很难弄明白为什么我男朋友靠近我的时候我还会觉得不自在，”一个22岁的日本人写道。“我从附近的贸易市场买来这个，但我真不喜欢自己动手安装。”同时，也有些人在博客上贴出了照片来表达他们的感受，当它出现的时候，系统会自动收集合成，把照片和句子一起加入进来。这些照片放大的同时也会调出它们相对一应的句子。“我觉得很好。”“我觉得很艰难，我可能胖了100，000磅，但这一切都是值得的。”“我喜欢他们为保护这一切所做的事情这让我觉得亲近自然——蝴蝶，人造森林，石灰岩洞，嘿，甚至这儿还有只大蟒蛇。”接下来，这个部分让我们加快速度动起来。我们略带着统计学的思路看收集到的这些东西。它展现了最近全球最普遍的感受，有很好、坏、不错以及罪恶等等。如果把这些感受表述成物理特性例如用来代表天气。代表晴朗的盘旋在这儿，代表多云的漂浮在这儿，代表阴雨的下不停下落，那些代表下雪的漂浮在地面上。我们可以停住下落的雨滴看看它里面的感受。最终，这些感受会移动到它所属的地点表述在地图上，给我们一个在地理范围角度上的感受。下面，我来给大家展示一下在“我感觉好”项目里面我最喜欢的部分。它们是一些自动合并在一起的图片。“我觉得我存在在一个倾斜的宇宙。”（笑声）“我与其他许多男孩接吻，但这感觉并不怎么好，这些吻让我觉得肮脏并且是不对的，但与卢卡斯接吻的感觉很美好，甚至是精神上的。”“我能感受到我的癌症在蔓延。”“我觉得漂亮。”&quot;我觉得骨感，但我并没有。&quot;“我23岁，刚刚从对兴奋剂和海洛因的沉迷中解脱出来，我真的对我依然活着心怀感激。”“我迫不及待地想看他们下个月在带托纳的赛车比赛啦！因为我觉得我需要一点速度的刺激。”（笑声）“我觉得我很蛮横。”“我觉得我戴着这顶新假发真性感。”正如大家所看到的，“我们感觉好”这个项目收集人们生活中非常小非常细微的故事。有些只有两三句左右的长短。并且，我开始调整这个观念我们到底是如何定义一个故事的。最近，我开始热衷于深度地挖掘那些单独的故事。并且它也指引我在这个现实世界当中做些事情，不仅局限在网络上面，仅把网络作为最终的展示平台之一。所以，这里是一些更新的项目实际上，它们还没有公开展示过。首先，介绍一个名为“捕杀鲸鱼”的项目。去年5月，我在阿拉斯加的Barrow生活了9天，它是美国最北边儿的殖民地，住在一个爱斯基摩人家里，记录他们每年春天的捕鲸活动。这是捕鲸的营地，我们距离海岸大概6英里的距离，扎营在大约有5尺半厚的冰面上。前面，能看到水流的是一条水道，春天的时候，露脊鲸会通过这样的水道向北方迁徙。爱斯基摩人的团体主要集中在冰的边缘这里扎营，等待鲸鱼足够靠近时再捕杀它，他们会向鲸鱼投掷一个鱼叉，然后将它拽起来直至冰面上，再将他分割开。一条鲸鱼可以作为食物供给这样一个团体相当长的一段时间。所以，我去到那里并和这些人生活在一起在捕鲸营地露营，拍摄这整个经历，从纽约搭计程车到纽瓦克机场，7天后，目睹了这一刻捕杀鲸鱼的过程，在这整个过程中，我每隔5分钟拍一张照片。每隔5分钟，拍一张相片。只要我是清醒的，就把相机挂在脖子上；在我睡觉的时候，就把相机固定在三角架上，通过计时器拍照。让人肾上腺素升高的时刻降临，如同于一些让人兴奋的事情正在发生，我拍照片的频率高达37张每5分钟。这是我创作出的一个图片心跳它时而加速时而减速，或多或少反映着我内心不平静的心率跳动。这是第一个项目。第二个项目的概念是运用这样的经历来思考任何一个故事的必要元素。是什么组成了一个故事？我们都知道，故事要有人物，还需要观点。故事也需要在特定的地方发生。它要有发生的情景。它也要有自身的色彩。它看起来怎样？它也有时间。什么时候发生？发生的日期、时间？在“捕杀鲸鱼”的项目里，一样体现出之一令人兴奋的想法。关于故事的事情，存在于绝大多数媒介当中的如我们熟悉的——小说，广播，照片，电影，甚至像今天这样的讲座——我们已经非常习惯于看一个故事从一个叙述者或者那些特定的机位。从某种程度上全知体的视角来看这些故事。我们对此习以为常。但如果你所想的是真实的生活，那就并非如你所想了。我所指的真是的生活，其中的故事更加的琐碎、细小，并且有许多交织的故事每一个故事都非常有趣、感人。基于此，我想它将非常有趣建立架构一个平台来展示这些故事。拿“捕杀鲸鱼”这个项目来说，我们怎样能从中提取出如同《西蒙和克劳福德》那样的故事，涉及到野外生存的概念，工具和血液，发生在北冰洋，以红色为主调，发生在5月3日的上午10点左右，以一种紧张刺激的情绪？如何从这个庞大的故事中提取出叙事的要点？我建立了一个“捕杀鲸鱼”的网站来尝试表达这些。这是那那里拍的一共3,214张照片。这是我在布鲁克林的工作室。这是北冰洋，这是捕杀鲸鱼的那一刻，七天之后。我们可以根据颜色来选择看故事的某个片段。这个红色的片段是我所住的公寓的墙纸。当我们移动到北冰洋这段时它的整体是白色调的。红色调的引入在鲸鱼被分割的那一段。我们可以看到一条时间线，显示着我们整个故事中兴奋的时刻。它们按照时间的顺序排列。同样，以圆环形式展示又别有一番乐趣，同样，这些照片也是按照时间顺序进行的一种排序方式。其中任何一个都可以点击进入，故事就从所选的点展开。这是在飞往阿拉斯加的飞机上睡了拍的相片。那是莫比·迪克。这是我们吃的食物。这是Patkotak家的卧室在Barrow的房子。他们请我们了成箱的葡萄酒。休息时间在外面抽烟——我并不抽烟。这真是令人兴奋的一条有关我睡觉的时间线。这是捕鲸露营时在北冰洋上的。我鼠标所走过的这一串照片的用意是模拟心率波的效果，展示令人肾上腺素升高的兴奋时刻。这是积雪凝固的效果。他们用雪建起的防护栏。下面我将为大家揭示一些故事背后的故事。这里我们看到的阵容。他们是全是参加“捕鲸行动”的人这是我们捕到的两只鲸鱼。我们可以随意地做些什么，比如说，提取出有关Rony *的故事，涉及血的概念鲸鱼和工具，发生在北冰洋，在爱斯基摩人的营地，和心跳一样快。这样我们就提炼出了一个完整的故事仅仅用到了29张魔幻般的照片，我们就可以从这里开始我们故事的叙述。大家可以看到Rony*在这边分割鲸鱼。这些鲸鱼大约有40尺那么长，重达40多吨。它们作为食物供给给这里的人，够他们吃上整整一年的时间。让我们跳出这里，这是Rony在鲸鱼的尸体边。他们用电锯或其它任何能用来分割东西的刀具，并且他们的效率快得惊人。这是拉着绳子的人们，正试图拉开分割好的鲸鱼。这是鲸鱼皮或者鲸鱼脂，全部由这个团体来分配使用。这是鲸须。继续。接下来我要与大家分享的是一件很新的事情。它现在甚至还不能称之为一个项目。就在昨天，我从新加坡飞到这边，在那之前，我在不丹度过了2周时间，那个喜马拉雅山脚下的国度地处西藏与印度中间。我在那儿做了一个有关幸福的项目，采访了当地的很多人。不丹确实有些奇怪的事情他们高级政府绝大多数的决策是围绕着国民总的幸福感的而不是国民的总产值，他们从70年代开始就这样做了。这导致他们拥有非常不同的价值体系。是一种难以置信非唯物主义文化这里人们拥有的不多，但却非常快乐。所以，我去到他们身边与那里的人分享他们的观点。我做了一系列的事情。我问了他们一系列设定好的问题，并排下一系列设定好的照片，采访通过录音和拍照的形式。我最让他们对自己的幸福感进行一下评估给出在1到10之间的一个分数，这也许有点荒唐。他们回答我以后，我会吹起同样数量的气球并让他们拿着这些代表数量的气球。所以，那些真正快乐的人可以手握10只气球，而那些悲伤的人可能只拿着1只气球。但对于他们，可能拿着一只气球，也是某种程度上的幸福。（笑声）然后，我会问他们一系列的问题，例如：他们生活中最幸福的一天，和什么让他们感到幸福。最后，我会让他们许一个愿。当他们许了愿后，我会把他们的愿望写在他们拿着的气球上，并拍一张他们手握气球的照片。下面，我想你们展示其中的一小部分一些我采访过的人，和一些与我交谈的人。这是一个11岁大的学生。他正在和他的朋友玩警察抓小偷，在城里跑来跑去，他们都拿着塑料玩具手枪。他的愿望是当一名警察。他有些早熟。这是他的双手。我拍了每个人的手，因为，我们常常能了解到些什么从他们的手上。我为每个人拍了肖像，并请他们每个人做一个搞笑的表情。一个17岁的学生。她的愿望是能生下来时是个男孩。她认为生活在不丹的女人需要经历一些非常困苦的事情，但对男孩子来说会容易许多。一位28岁的手机店老板。如果你知道巴洛市是么样的，你会明白在这里看到一家手机店是多么的奇妙的事情。他想帮助穷人。一位53岁的农民。她正在筛小麦，在她身后的那一堆儿小麦大约花了她一周的时间来弄它们。她想一直务农直到她死去。我们确实可以从它的手上看出她的故事。她所戴的银戒指上面刻着“爱”这个字，她在路上某处拾到的。一个16岁的挖掘工。这个男人在烈日炎炎之下仍坚持用锤子击碎岩石挖掘，但他希望可以过农民的生活。一位21岁的僧侣。他非常的快乐。他想在寺院里面度过漫长的一生。他左边脸的痣上面很神奇地长出了一撮毛，他告诉我那代表着好运。他对于做鬼脸有点害羞。一位16岁的学生。她想成为一名独立的女性。我问她为什么，她说她的意思是她不想结婚，因为在她的思想观念中，在不丹，女人一旦结了婚那么她自由的生活也就此终止了，她对此完全没有兴趣。一位24岁的卡车司机。这是印度那些大的让人害怕的卡车在双行道的马路上会向另一道倾斜，足足有3000尺高，他就是其中一辆是司机。但他的愿望是跟其他人一样度过舒适的一生。一位24岁的街道清扫员。我在她午餐的时候遇到的她。她在路边生了一把火来取暖。她的愿望是嫁一个有车的男人。她想生活有一些转变。她住在这条马路对面的一个小小的工人营地里面，她想要一些列不同的东西。一位81岁的行商的农民。我在路边遇到的他，他实际上并没有家。他在农场与农场间流动试图找到工作，并且，他就住在他为之工作的农场里。他的愿望是可以跟随着我，这样他就有可以住的地方了。这感觉很奇妙，他从他的棉袄中拿出这把刀并且开始挥舞，当我让他做一个搞笑的表情的时候。很慈祥和蔼的性格。一个10岁的男孩。他想上学学读书，但他的父母没有足够的钱供他上学念书。他正在吃这种桔子味的糖他一直舔他的手指，所以他的唾液粘到了他的手上，这些橙色的糖浆粘在了他手掌上。（笑声）一位37岁的铺路工。不丹的一个牵扯政治的话题就是雇佣印度人作为廉价劳工他们从印度引进过来铺路，路一旦铺好他们就又会被遣送回家。这些人是一个工作组正在为高速路铺沥青。他的愿望是挣些钱然后开一家商店。一位75岁的农民。她在路边买橘子。我问她她的愿望是什么，她回答道，“正如你知道的，也许我会活着，也许我会死去，我没有什么愿望。”她有嚼着槟榔的习惯，使得她的牙进过这些年而变得很红。最后，这是一位26岁的尼姑，我跟她聊了天。她的愿望是去西藏朝拜。我问她打算在尼姑庵生活多久，她回答说，“当然，你知道，它不是永久的，”但我的计划是在那里一直住到我三十岁，然后过起隐居生活。”我问：“你的意思是指像住在洞中？”她回答说:“对，就像住在洞穴中。”我说：“哇奥，那你打算在洞穴中生活多久呢？”她说：“恩，你知道的，我想我会在洞穴中度过我的一生。”我觉得这非常奇妙。我是指她的谈吐-非常迷人的英语，机智的幽默感和爽朗的笑声-使得她看起来如同我会巧遇在纽约或佛蒙特州（我的家乡）的某条街上的路人。但是，她在这里的尼姑庵已经生活了7年。我又深入地问了她一下有关洞穴的事情以及她觉得当她住进去后会发生些什么。万一她住了一年就觉得看透一切了该怎么办，她接下去的35年该怎样度过呢？下面我们来听一下她是怎么说的。女人：“我想我会继续住35年，也许-也许我就死了。”乔纳森·哈里斯：也许你会死？ 女人：是的。乔纳森·哈里斯：十年？ 女人：是的，是的。乔纳森·哈里斯：十年，那可是很长一段时间。女人：对，也许不用十年，也许我会死在一年时间里，或者什么类似的事件会发生。乔纳森·哈里斯：你希望这样么？女人：啊哈，你知道的，这不是永久的。乔纳森·哈里斯：对，但-好吧，你是否希望-你是更喜欢在洞穴中生活四十年，还是只生活一年？女人：但，我更希望是四十至五十年。乔纳森·哈里斯：四十到五十年？好吧。女人：是的。那之后我就去天堂了。乔纳森·哈里斯：恩，我祝福你。女人：谢谢你。乔纳森·哈里斯：我希望你所想的一切会成真。再次感谢你的祝福，非常感谢。女人：欢迎你再来。乔纳森·哈里斯：大家是否注意到了，她说她希望死去在她50多岁的时候。对她来说活这么久已经足够了。最后一件事，我们进行得非常快，就是我把这些所有写满心愿的气球-那一共有117位受访者，117个心愿-我把他们带去了一个叫做Dochula的地方，它是一座跨越不丹的有10300尺高的山，是不丹一座有神圣意味的山。在山顶上，有数以千计的祈祷着的旗帜是人们常年来积累下来的。我们重新给气球充满气，把它们绑到一根绳子上面，把它们与那些祈祷着的旗子挂在一起。实际上，他们今天应该还飘在那边。如果在座的各位有谁有近期去不丹旅行的计划，你们可以亲自去那里看一看。这是那边的一些照片。祝愿这些虔诚的祈祷者的心愿可以成真。你们可以在这里看到一些熟悉的气球。“挣一笔钱，然后开一家商店”是那个印度铺路工的愿望。非常感谢大家。（掌声）
en:So I&#39;m going to talk today about collecting storiesin some unconventional ways.This is a picture of me from a very awkward stage in my life.You might enjoy the awkwardly tight, cut-off pajama bottoms with balloons.Anyway, it was a time when I was mainly interestedin collecting imaginary stories.So this is a picture of meholding one of the first watercolor paintings I ever made.And recently I&#39;ve been much more interested in collecting storiesfrom reality — so, real stories.And specifically, I&#39;m interested in collecting my own stories,stories from the Internet, and then recently, stories from life,which is kind of a new area of work that I&#39;ve been doing recently.So I&#39;ll be talking about each of those today.So, first of all, my own stories. These are two of my sketchbooks.I have many of these books,and I&#39;ve been keeping them for about the last eight or nine years.They accompany me wherever I go in my life,and I fill them with all sorts of things,records of my lived experience:so watercolor paintings, drawings of what I see,dead flowers, dead insects, pasted ticket stubs, rusting coins,business cards, writings.And in these books, you can find these short, little glimpsesof moments and experiences and people that I meet.And, you know, after keeping these books for a number of years,I started to become very interested in collectingnot only my own personal artifacts,but also the artifacts of other people.So, I started collecting found objects.This is a photograph I found lying in a gutter in New York Cityabout 10 years ago.On the front, you can see the tattered black-and-white photo of a woman&#39;s face,and on the back it says, &quot;To Judy, the girl with the Bill Bailey voice.Have fun in whatever you do.&quot;And I really loved this idea of the partial glimpse into somebody&#39;s life.As opposed to knowing the whole story, just knowing a little bit of the story,and then letting your own mind fill in the rest.And that idea of a partial glimpse is somethingthat will come back in a lot of the work I&#39;ll be showing later today.So, around this time I was studying computer science at Princeton University,and I noticed that it was suddenly possibleto collect these sorts of personal artifacts,not just from street corners, but also from the Internet.And that suddenly, people, en masse, were leaving scores and scoresof digital footprints online that told stories of their private lives.Blog posts, photographs, thoughts, feelings, opinions,all of these things were being expressed by people online,and leaving behind trails.So, I started to write computer programsthat study very, very large sets of these online footprints.One such project is about a year and a half old.It&#39;s called &quot;We Feel Fine.&quot;This is a project that scans the world&#39;s newly posted blog entriesevery two or three minutes, searching for occurrences of the phrases&quot;I feel&quot; and &quot;I am feeling.&quot; And when it finds one of those phrases,it grabs the full sentence up to the periodand also tries to identify demographic information about the author.So, their gender, their age, their geographic locationand what the weather conditions were like when they wrote that sentence.It collects about 20,000 such sentences a dayand it&#39;s been running for about a year and a half,having collected over 10 and a half million feelings now.This is, then, how they&#39;re presented.These dots here represent some of the English-speaking world&#39;sfeelings from the last few hours,each dot being a single sentence stated by a single blogger.And the color of each dot corresponds to the type of feeling inside,so the bright ones are happy, and the dark ones are sad.And the diameter of each dot correspondsto the length of the sentence inside.So the small ones are short, and the bigger ones are longer.&quot;I feel fine with the body I&#39;m in, there&#39;ll be no easy excusefor why I still feel uncomfortable being close to my boyfriend,&quot;from a twenty-two-year-old in Japan.&quot;I got this on some trading locally,but really don&#39;t feel like screwing with wiring and crap.&quot;Also, some of the feelings contain photographs in the blog posts.And when that happens, these montage compositions are automatically created,which consist of the sentence and images being combined.And any of these can be opened up to reveal the sentence inside.&quot;I feel good.&quot;&quot;I feel rough now, and I probably gained 100,000 pounds,but it was worth it.&quot;&quot;I love how they were able to preserve most in everythingthat makes you feel close to nature — butterflies,man-made forests, limestone caves and hey, even a huge python.&quot;So the next movement is called mobs.This provides a slightly more statistical look at things.This is showing the world&#39;s most common feelings overall right now,dominated by better, then bad, then good, then guilty, and so on.Weather causes the feelings to assume the physical traitsof the weather they represent. So the sunny ones swirl around,the cloudy ones float along, the rainy ones fall down,and the snowy ones flutter to the ground.You can also stop a raindrop and open the feeling inside.Finally, location causes the feelings to move to their spotson a world map, giving you a sense of their geographic distribution.So I&#39;ll show you now some of my favorite montages from &quot;We Feel Fine.&quot;These are the images that are automatically constructed.&quot;I feel like I&#39;m diagonally parked in a parallel universe.&quot;(Laughter)&quot;I&#39;ve kissed numerous other boys and it hasn&#39;t felt good,the kisses felt messy and wrong,but kissing Lucas feels beautiful and almost spiritual.&quot;&quot;I can feel my cancer grow.&quot;&quot;I feel pretty.&quot;&quot;I feel skinny, but I&#39;m not.&quot;&quot;I&#39;m 23, and a recovering meth and heroin addict,and feel absolutely blessed to still be alive.&quot;&quot;I can&#39;t wait to see them racing for the first time at Daytona next month,because I feel the need for speed.&quot;(Laughter)&quot;I feel sassy.&quot;&quot;I feel so sexy in this new wig.&quot;As you can see, &quot;We Feel Fine&quot; collectsvery, very small-scale personal stories.Sometimes, stories as short as two or three words.So, really even challenging the notionof what can be considered a story.And recently, I&#39;ve become interested in diving much more deeply into a single story.And that&#39;s led me to doing some work with the physical world,not with the Internet,and only using the Internet at the very last moment, as a presentation medium.So these are some newer projects thatactually aren&#39;t even launched publicly yet.The first such one is called &quot;The Whale Hunt.&quot;Last May, I spent nine days living up in Barrow, Alaska,the northernmost settlement in the United States,with a family of Inupiat Eskimos,documenting their annual spring whale hunt.This is the whaling camp here, we&#39;re about six miles from shore,camping on five and a half feet of thick, frozen pack ice.And that water that you see there is the open lead,and through that lead, bowhead whales migrate north each springtime.And the Eskimo community basically camps out on the edge of the ice here,waits for a whale to come close enough to attack. And when it does,it throws a harpoon at it, and then hauls the whale upunder the ice, and cuts it up.And that would provide the community&#39;s food supply for a long time.So I went up there, and I lived with these guysout in their whaling camp here, and photographed the entire experience,beginning with the taxi ride to Newark airport in New York,and ending with the butchering of the second whale, seven and a half days later.I photographed that entire experience at five-minute intervals.So every five minutes, I took a photograph.When I was awake, with the camera around my neck.When I was sleeping, with a tripod and a timer.And then in moments of high adrenaline,like when something exciting was happening,I would up that photographic frequency to as many as37 photographs in five minutes.So what this created was a photographic heartbeatthat sped up and slowed down, more or less matchingthe changing pace of my own heartbeat.That was the first concept here.The second concept was to use this experience to think aboutthe fundamental components of any story.What are the things that make up a story?So, stories have characters. Stories have concepts.Stories take place in a certain area. They have contexts.They have colors. What do they look like?They have time. When did it take place? Dates — when did it occur?And in the case of the whale hunt, also this idea of an excitement level.The thing about stories, though, in most of the existing mediumsthat we&#39;re accustomed to — things like novels, radio,photographs, movies, even lectures like this one —we&#39;re very accustomed to this idea of the narrator or the camera position,some kind of omniscient, external bodythrough whose eyes you see the story.We&#39;re very used to this.But if you think about real life, it&#39;s not like that at all.I mean, in real life, things are much more nuanced and complex,and there&#39;s all of these overlapping storiesintersecting and touching each other.And so I thought it would be interesting to build a frameworkto surface those types of stories. So, in the case of &quot;The Whale Hunt,&quot;how could we extract something like the story of Simeon and Crawford,involving the concepts of wildlife, tools and blood, taking place on the Arctic Ocean,dominated by the color red, happening around 10 a.m. on May 3,with an excitement level of high?So, how to extract this order of narrative from this larger story?I built a web interface for viewing &quot;The Whale Hunt&quot; that attempts to do just this.So these are all 3,214 pictures taken up there.This is my studio in Brooklyn. This is the Arctic Ocean,and the butchering of the second whale, seven days later.You can start to see some of the story here, told by color.So this red strip signifies the color of the wallpaperin the basement apartment where I was staying.And things go white as we move out onto the Arctic Ocean.Introduction of red down here, when whales are being cut up.You can see a timeline, showing you the exciting moments throughout the story.These are organized chronologically.Wheel provides a slightly more playful version of the same,so these are also all the photographs organized chronologically.And any of these can be clicked,and then the narrative is entered at that position.So here I am sleeping on the airplane heading up to Alaska.That&#39;s &quot;Moby Dick.&quot;This is the food we ate.This is in the Patkotak&#39;s family living roomin their house in Barrow. The boxed wine they served us.Cigarette break outside — I don&#39;t smoke.This is a really exciting sequence of me sleeping.This is out at whale camp, on the Arctic Ocean.This graph that I&#39;m clicking down here is meant to bereminiscent of a medical heartbeat graph,showing the exciting moments of adrenaline.This is the ice starting to freeze over. The snow fence they built.And so what I&#39;ll show you now is the ability to pull out sub-stories.So, here you see the cast. These are all of the people in &quot;The Whale Hunt&quot;and the two whales that were killed down here.And we could do something as arbitrary as, say,extract the story of Rony, involving the concepts of bloodand whales and tools, taking place on the Arctic Ocean,at Ahkivgaq camp, with the heartbeat level of fast.And now we&#39;ve whittled down that whole storyto just 29 matching photographs,and then we can enter the narrative at that position.And you can see Rony cutting up the whale here.These whales are about 40 feet long,and weighing over 40 tons. And they provide the food sourcefor the community for much of the year.Skipping ahead a bit more here, this is Rony on the whale carcass.They use no chainsaws or anything; it&#39;s entirely just blades,and an incredibly efficient process.This is the guys on the rope, pulling open the carcass.This is the muktuk, or the blubber, all lined up for community distribution.It&#39;s baleen. Moving on.So what I&#39;m going to tell you about nextis a very new thing. It&#39;s not even a project yet.So, just yesterday, I flew in here from Singapore, and before that,I was spending two weeks in Bhutan, the small Himalayan kingdomnestled between Tibet and India.And I was doing a project there about happiness,interviewing a lot of local people.So Bhutan has this really wacky thing where they basemost of their high-level governmental decisions around the conceptof gross national happiness instead of gross domestic product,and they&#39;ve been doing this since the &#39;70s.And it leads to just a completely different value system.It&#39;s an incredibly non-materialistic culture,where people don&#39;t have a lot, but they&#39;re incredibly happy.So I went around and I talked to people about some of these ideas.So, I did a number of things. I asked people a number of set questions,and took a number of set photographs,and interviewed them with audio, and also took pictures.I would start by asking people to rate their happinessbetween one and 10, which is kind of inherently absurd.And then when they answered, I would inflate that number of balloonsand give them that number of balloons to hold.So, you have some really happy person holding 10 balloons,and some really sad soul holding one balloon.But you know, even holding one balloon is like, kind of happy.(Laughter)And then I would ask them a number of questions likewhat was the happiest day in their life, what makes them happy.And then finally, I would ask them to make a wish.And when they made a wish, I would write their wishonto one of the balloons and take a picture of them holding it.So I&#39;m going to show you now just a few brief snippetsof some of the interviews that I did, some of the people I spoke with.This is an 11-year-old student.He was playing cops and robbers with his friends, running around town,and they all had plastic toy guns.His wish was to become a police officer.He was getting started early. Those were his hands.I took pictures of everybody&#39;s hands,because I think you can often tell a lot about somebodyfrom how their hands look. I took a portrait of everybody,and asked everybody to make a funny face.A 17-year-old student. Her wish was to have been born a boy.She thinks that women have a pretty tough go of things in Bhutan,and it&#39;s a lot easier if you&#39;re a boy.A 28-year-old cell phone shop owner.If you knew what Paro looked like, you&#39;d understandhow amazing it is that there&#39;s a cell phone shop there.He wanted to help poor people.A 53-year-old farmer. She was chaffing wheat,and that pile of wheat behind herhad taken her about a week to make.She wanted to keep farming until she dies.You can really start to see the stories told by the hands here.She was wearing this silver ring that had the word &quot;love&quot; engraved on it,and she&#39;d found it in the road somewhere.A 16-year-old quarry worker.This guy was breaking rocks with a hammer in the hot sunlight,but he just wanted to spend his life as a farmer.A 21-year-old monk. He was very happy.He wanted to live a long life at the monastery.He had this amazing series of hairs growing out of a mole on the left side of his face,which I&#39;m told is very good luck.He was kind of too shy to make a funny face.A 16-year-old student.She wanted to become an independent woman.I asked her about that, and she said she meantthat she doesn&#39;t want to be married,because, in her opinion, when you get married in Bhutan as a woman,your chances to live an independent life kind of end,and so she had no interest in that.A 24-year-old truck driver.There are these terrifyingly huge Indian trucksthat come careening around one-lane roads with two-lane traffic,with 3,000-foot drop-offs right next to the road,and he was driving one of these trucks.But all he wanted was to just live a comfortable life, like other people.A 24-year-old road sweeper. I caught her on her lunch break.She&#39;d built a little fire to keep warm, right next to the road.Her wish was to marry someone with a car.She wanted a change in her life.She lives in a little worker&#39;s camp right next to the road,and she wanted a different lot on things.An 81-year-old itinerant farmer.I saw this guy on the side of the road,and he actually doesn&#39;t have a home.He travels from farm to farm each day trying to find work,and then he tries to sleep at whatever farm he gets work at.So his wish was to come with me, so that he had somewhere to live.He had this amazing knife that he pulled out of his ghoand started brandishing when I asked him to make a funny face.It was all good-natured.A 10-year-old.He wanted to join a school and learn to read,but his parents didn&#39;t have enough money to send him to school.He was eating this orange, sugary candythat he kept dipping his fingers into,and since there was so much saliva on his hands,this orange paste started to form on his palms.(Laughter)A 37-year-old road worker.One of the more touchy political subjects in Bhutanis the use of Indian cheap laborthat they import from India to build the roads,and then they send these people home once the roads are built.So these guys were in a worker&#39;s gangmixing up asphalt one morning on the side of the highway.His wish was to make some money and open a store.A 75-year-old farmer. She was selling oranges on the side of the road.I asked her about her wish, and she said,&quot;You know, maybe I&#39;ll live, maybe I&#39;ll die, but I don&#39;t have a wish.&quot;She was chewing betel nut, which caused her teethover the years to turn very red.Finally, this is a 26-year-old nun I spoke to.Her wish was to make a pilgrimage to Tibet.I asked her how long she planned to live in the nunnery and she said,&quot;Well, you know, of course, it&#39;s impermanent,but my plan is to live here until I&#39;m 30, and then enter a hermitage.&quot;And I said, &quot;You mean, like a cave?&quot; And she said, &quot;Yeah, like a cave.&quot;And I said, &quot;Wow, and how long will you live in the cave?&quot;And she said, &quot;Well, you know,I think I&#39;d kind of like to live my whole life in the cave.&quot;I just thought that was amazing. I mean, she spoke in a way —with amazing English, and amazing humor, and amazing laughter —that made her seem like somebody I could have bumped intoon the streets of New York, or in Vermont, where I&#39;m from.But here she had been living in a nunnery for the last seven years.I asked her a little bit more about the caveand what she planned would happen once she went there, you know.What if she saw the truth after just one year,what would she do for the next 35 years in her life?And this is what she said.Woman: I think I&#39;m going to stay for 35. Maybe — maybe I&#39;ll die.Jonathan Harris: Maybe you&#39;ll die? Woman: Yes.JH: 10 years? Woman: Yes, yes. JH: 10 years, that&#39;s a long time.Woman: Yes, not maybe one, 10 years, maybe I can diewithin one year, or something like that.JH: Are you hoping to?Woman: Ah, because you know, it&#39;s impermanent.JH: Yeah, but — yeah, OK. Do you hope —would you prefer to live in the cave for 40 years,or to live for one year?Woman: But I prefer for maybe 40 to 50.JH: 40 to 50? Yeah.Woman: Yes. From then, I&#39;m going to the heaven.JH: Well, I wish you the best of luck with it.Woman: Thank you.JH: I hope it&#39;s everything that you hope it will be.So thank you again, so much.Woman: You&#39;re most welcome.JH: So if you caught that, she said she hoped to diewhen she was around 40. That was enough life for her.So, the last thing we did, very quickly,is I took all those wish balloons — there were 117 interviews,117 wishes — and I brought them up to a place called Dochula,which is a mountain pass in Bhutan, at 10,300 feet,one of the more sacred places in Bhutan.And up there, there are thousands of prayer flagsthat people have spread out over the years.And we re-inflated all of the balloons, put them up on a string,and hung them up there among the prayer flags.And they&#39;re actually still flying up there today.So if any of you have any Bhutan travel plans in the near future,you can go check these out. Here are some images from that.We said a Buddhist prayer so that all these wishes could come true.You can start to see some familiar balloons here.&quot;To make some money and to open a store&quot; was the Indian road worker.Thanks very much.(Applause)
