时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我真的觉得自己很会讲故事，但是我其实不是用一般的方式讲故事，也就是说我基本上不讲自己的故事。相反，我对搭建平台让世界各地的所有人能够讲他们自己的故事很感兴趣。我这样做是因为我觉得人有很多共同点。我觉得人与人之间很相似，但我也认为人们不太容易发现这些相似点。
en:So I really consider myself a storyteller.But I don&#39;t really tell stories in the usual way,in the sense that I don&#39;t usually tell my own stories.Instead, I&#39;m really interested in building tools that allowlarge numbers of other people to tell their stories,people all around the world.I do this because I think that people actually have a lot in common.I think people are very similar,but I also think that we have trouble seeing that.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:当我纵观世界的时候，我能看到很多的差异，对吧，我们所有人都能看到很多的差异。其实我们是通过人与人之间的差异来定义我们自己的，对吧，我们有语言差异，种族差异，年龄差异，性别差异，性向差异，财富和金钱差距，教育程度差距，宗教差异。对吧，我们有所有这些差距和不同，而我觉得人们喜欢这些差异，因为他们让我们感觉与众不同，属于不同于大众的小众。但我也认为尽管我们有那么多的差异，实际上我们真的也有很多共同点，其中的一个共同点就是我们内心深处都急需表达自我。这是一个非常原始的人类欲求，并不是什么新的概念。
en:You know, as I look around the world I see a lot of gaps,and I think we all see a lot of gaps.And we define ourselves by our gaps.There&#39;s language gaps,there&#39;s ethnicity and racial gaps, there&#39;s age gaps,there&#39;s gender gaps, there&#39;s sexuality gaps,there&#39;s wealth and money gaps, there&#39;s education gaps,there&#39;s also religious gaps.You know, we have all these gaps and I think we like our gapsbecause they make us feel like we identify with something,some smaller community.But I think that actually, despite our gaps,we really have a lot in common.And I think one thing we have in common is a very deep needto express ourselves.I think this is a very old human desire. It&#39;s nothing new.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:但问题是自古以来这个表达自我的欲望总得不到满足，因为虽然我们渴望表达自我，但是总是找不到那么多有同感的朋友愿意站在边上听。
en:But the thing about self-expressionis that there&#39;s traditionally been this imbalancebetween the desire that we have to express ourselvesand the number of sympathetic friendswho are willing to stand around and listen.
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:（大家笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:这也不是什么新发现。从人类发展伊始，我们就一直试图战胜这种不平衡，通过制作艺术品，写诗歌，唱歌，写读后感寄给报社，与朋友闲扯八卦。这也不是什么新鲜事。
en:This, also, is nothing new.Since the dawn of human history, we&#39;ve tried to rectify this imbalanceby making art, writing poems, singing songs,scripting editorials and sending them in to a newspaper,gossiping with friends. This is nothing new.
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:真正的新鲜事是：在过去几年中很多这些传统的表达自我的人类活动，已经逐渐转移到互联网上。而在这个过程中，人们会留下了痕迹，那些他们表达自我时讲的故事的痕迹。所以我做的事情就是，编程序搜集和研究大量的这些痕迹，然后尽量从中得出关于留下痕迹的那些人一些结论，™比如他们有什么感觉，他们想些什么，今天的世界和以往有哪些不同，诸如此类的问题。
en:What&#39;s new is that in the last several yearsa lot of these very traditional physical human activities,these acts of self-expression, have been moving onto the Internet.And as that&#39;s happened, people have been leaving behind footprints,footprints that tell stories of their moments of self-expression.And so what I do is, I write computer programsthat study very large sets of these footprints,and then try to draw conclusions about the people who left them —what they feel, what they think,what&#39;s different in the world today than usual,these sorts of questions.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:其中一个探索这些想法的项目在大概一年前启动，做一个名字叫作“我们感觉不错”的程序。这个程序每两三分钟扫描一下全球新张贴的博客日志，寻找“我觉得”或者“我正感觉”这两个词组。如果发现这些词组，就提取这一整句话，然后自动试着推断写这句话的人的年龄，性别和地理位置。然后，通过获得的地理位置和时间，我们还可以找到那个人写那句话当时的天气。所有这些信息都保存在一个数据库里，每天大约能搜集2万条感觉的数据。这个项目已经运行了大概一年半，至今为止已经搜集了大约750万条人们的感觉。现在我大概演示一下我们把这些信息可视化之后的样子。请看，这就是“我们感觉不错”。
en:One project that explores these ideas,which was made about a year ago,is a piece called We Feel Fine.This is a piece that every two or three minutesscans the world&#39;s newly-posted blog entriesfor occurrences of the phrases &quot;I feel&quot; or &quot;I am feeling.&quot;And when it finds one of those phrases,it grabs the sentence up to the period,and then automatically tries to deduce the age, genderand geographical location of the person that wrote that sentence.Then, knowing the geographical location and the time,we can also then figure out the weatherwhen that person wrote the sentence.All of this information is saved in a databasethat collects about 20,000 feelings a day.It&#39;s been running for about a year and a half.It&#39;s reached about seven-and-a-half million human feelings now.And I&#39;ll show you a glimpseof how this information is then visualized. So this is We Feel Fine.
时间： 3:13
zh-cn:你们看到的是一大堆纷乱蠕动的粒子，每个粒子代表一句在刚过去的几小时之内发表的感觉。每个粒子的颜色对应于内心感受的类型：快乐积极的感觉用鲜艳的色彩表示，而伤心消极的情绪用灰暗的颜色表示。每个粒子的直径代表那句话的长度，因此大的粒子表示较长的句子，小的粒子代表短的句子。任何粒子都可以点击显示更多信息。请看这句，“如果我现在能蜷缩在他的怀里，从他怀抱和温柔的嘴唇感觉他对我的爱恋，我会感觉多好啊”。可见，有时候这些人类情感世界中的东西会非常撩人和煽情。而这一切都是人们自己说的。“我知道客观上那并没有多大的意义，但像大池塘的一条小鱼一样地生活了那么多年之后，能再感觉变大了是多么美好。”
en:What you see here is a madly swarming mass of particles,each of which represents a single human feelingthat was stated in the last few hours.The color of each particle corresponds to the type of feeling inside —so that happy, positive feelings are brightly colored.And sad, negative feelings are darkly colored.The diameter of each dotrepresents the length of the sentence inside,so that the large dots contain large sentences,and the small dots contain small sentences.Any dot can be clicked and expanded. And we see here,&quot;I would just feel so much betterif I could curl up in his arms right now and feel his affection for mein the embrace of his body and the tenderness of his lips.&quot;So it gets pretty hot and steamy sometimesin the world of human emotions.And all of these are stated by people:&quot;I know that objectively it really doesn&#39;t mean much,but after spending so many years as a small fish in a big pond,it&#39;s nice to feel bigger again.&quot;
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:这些粒子能展示人的特性。他们又像有自己的生命，疯狂地四处游动，欲探索生命的世界。他们也显示出好奇的模样。你们可以看到现在有一些粒子在鼠标周围蠕动，另外一些在左下角的6个词周围游动。这6个词代表了“我们感觉不错”项目的6个模式。我们现在看到的是“疯狂”。另外还有“悄悄话”，“剪辑”，“同党”，“度量”和“果冻”。现在我和你们一起看看其中几个。“悄悄话”把所有情绪吹到屏幕顶上。然后，一个接一个的按从新到旧的顺序自己运行，进到一个滚动的感觉清单里面，“我现在感觉好一点了。”
en:The dots exhibit human qualities. They kind of have their own physics,and they swarm wildly around, kind of exploring the world of life.And then they also exhibit curiosity.You can see a few of them are swarming around the cursor right now.You can see some other onesare swarming around the bottom left corner of the screenaround six words. Those six words represent the six movementsof We Feel Fine. We&#39;re currently seeing Madness.There&#39;s also Murmurs, Montage, Mobs, Metrics and Mounds.And I&#39;ll walk you through a few of those now.Murmurs causes all of the feelings to fly to the ceiling.And then, one by one, in reverse chronological order,they excuse themselves, entering the scrolling list of feelings.&quot;I feel a bit better now.&quot;
时间： 4:43
zh-cn:（大家笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:“我感到困惑，不知道我到底想干什么。”“我感觉虽然上当了，但是收获了一些很棒的东西。”“我觉得很自由，感觉非常好。”“我觉得像是在一团郁闷的迷雾中，不可自拔。”你也可以点击任何一个粒子去查看它们的博客来源，通过这样就可以与这些博客的作者联系，如果那些话让你觉得有同感的话。
en:&quot;I feel confused and unsure of what the hell I want to do.&quot;&quot;I feel gypped out of something awesome here.&quot;&quot;I feel so free; I feel so good.&quot;&quot;I feel like I&#39;m in this fog of depression that I can&#39;t get out of.&quot;And you can click any of these to go out and visit the blogfrom which it was collected. And in that way,you can connect with the authors of these statementsif you feel some degree of empathy.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:下面这个模式叫作“剪辑”。“剪辑”把所有包含照片的感觉抽出来，显示成一个点阵。这个照片点阵就代表了前几个小时的世界情绪，可以这么说。每一张图片都可以点击放大。这里说，“我只是觉得如果不是我们两人一起经历的事，都不会让我开心。”这来自一个密歇根州的人。这里说，“我感觉24小时都对着电脑”。
en:The next movement is called Montage.Montage causes all of the feelings that contain photographsto become extracted and display themselves in a grid.This grid is then said to represent the picture of the world&#39;s feelingsin the last few hours, if you will.Each of these can be clicked and we can blow it up.We see, &quot;I just feel like I&#39;m not going to have funif it&#39;s not the both of us.&quot; That was from someone in Michigan.We see, &quot;I feel like I have been at a computer all day.&quot;
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:（大家笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:39
zh-cn:这些都是用通过“剪辑”的设置自动搜索的句子。“我觉得有点吃撑了。”
en:These are automatically constructed using the found objects:&quot;I think I feel a little full.&quot;
时间： 5:46
zh-cn:接下来这个模式称为“同党”。“同党”对全世界在过去几个小时的感觉做统计分类。我们发现“好些了”是现在最常见的感觉，其次是好，不好，愧疚，不错，沮丧，恶心等。我们还可以按性别分类。我们发现在刚才几个小时中，女人谈自己的情绪比男人要多。我们也可以按年龄划分，就能得到世界的情感按照年龄分布的柱状图。可以看到20多岁的人是最活跃的，然后是青少年，然后是30多岁的人，其他年龄段的就基本上不怎么讲了。可以按天气来分类，我们把感觉特征和天气特征的相似联系起来，那么那些象征阳光灿烂天气的情绪不断旋转着，仿佛它们就是太阳的一部分。象征多云的情绪飘浮着，仿佛乘风来去。象征下雨情绪的粒子坠落下来，就像是在下暴雨。象征下雪的粒子就像雪花一样洒落地面。
en:The next movement is called mobs.Mobs provides different statistical breakdownsof the population of the world&#39;s feelings in the last few hours.We see that &quot;better&quot; is the most frequent feeling right now,followed by &quot;good,&quot; &quot;bad,&quot; &quot;guilty,&quot; &quot;right,&quot; &quot;down,&quot; &quot;sick&quot; and so on.We can also get a gender breakdown.And we see that women are slightly more prolifictalking about their emotions in the last few hours than men.We can do an age breakdown, which gives us a histogramof the world&#39;s emotional distribution by age.We see people in their twenties are the most prolific,followed by teenagers, and then people in their thirties,and it dies out very quickly from there.In weather, the feelings assume the physical characteristicsof the weather that they represent,so that the ones collected on a sunny dayswirl around as if they&#39;re part of the sun.The cloudy ones float along as if they&#39;re on a breeze.The rainy ones fall down as if they&#39;re in a rainstorm,and the snowy ones kind of flutter to the ground.
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:最后，按位置分类可以把感觉的来源地显示在世界地图上，显示出那些感觉的地理分布。“度量”对数据提供更多的数量分析。可以看到，现在世界上感觉“被利用了”的程度是平常的3.3倍。
en:Finally, location causes the feelings to move to their positionson a world map showing the geographical distribution of feelings.Metrics provides more numerical views on the data.We see that the world is feeling &quot;used&quot;at 3.3 times the normal level right now.
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:（大家笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:52
zh-cn:他们正感到比平时温暖2.9倍，等等。还有其他的数量分析。刚才看的是性别，年龄，天气，位置。
en:They&#39;re feeling &quot;warm&quot; at 2.9 times the normal level, and so on.Other views are also available.Here are gender, age, weather, location.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:最后一个模式被称作“山丘”。这个跟刚才的几个有点不同。“山丘”把整个数据库形象地表示为大果冻似的的小山，有点摇晃。如果按住鼠标，他们会抖动。我们看见“好些了”是最常见的感觉，其次是“不好”。然后如果我移到这里，列表就开始滚动，这里实际上已经收集了成千上万的感觉。你可以看到这个粉红色的光标在移动，代表我们的位置。这里我们看到人们感到“下滑”，“恶心”，“负责”。
en:The final movement is called Mounds.It&#39;s a bit different from the others.Mounds visualizes the entire dataset as large, gelatinous blobswhich kind of jiggle.And if I hold down my cursor, they do a little dance.We see &quot;better&quot; is the most frequent feeling, followed by &quot;bad.&quot;And then if I go over here, the list begins to scroll,and there are actually thousands of feelings that have been collected.You can see the little pink cursor moving along,representing our position.Here we see people that feel &quot;slipping,&quot; &quot;nauseous,&quot; &quot;responsible.&quot;
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:如果你想看看具体某些人的情况的话，它还有搜索功能。比如说，你可能发现在孟加拉国多云的时候更多女人们希望她们能永远20岁
en:There&#39;s also a search capability,if you&#39;re interested in finding out about a certain population.For instance, you could find women who feel &quot;addicted&quot;in their 20s when it was cloudy in Bangladesh.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:（大家笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:41
zh-cn:关于这个我就不多说了。那么这里是我收集的最喜欢的一些“剪辑”：“我觉得爸爸给我的爱多到都没有我自己存在的地方了。”“我感到很孤独。”“我要到一些边远的乡村去，那样我才觉得自己漂亮。”“我觉得你眼中没有我。”“我不会隐瞒，除非这个社会非逼我这么做。”“我觉得爱上了卡罗琳。” “我觉得我很调皮。”“我觉得这些怪人根本是大学生活的财富所在。”
en:But I&#39;ll spare you that.So here are some of my favorite montages that have been collected:&quot;I feel so much of my dad alive in me that there isn&#39;t even room for me.&quot;&quot;I feel very lonely.&quot;&quot;I need to be in some backwoods redneck townso that I can feel beautiful.&quot;&quot;I feel invisible to you.&quot;&quot;I wouldn&#39;t hide it if society didn&#39;t make me feel like I needed to.&quot;&quot;I feel in love with Carolyn.&quot; &quot;I feel so naughty.&quot;&quot;I feel these weirdoes are actually an asset to college life.&quot;
时间： 8:21
zh-cn:（大家笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:25
zh-cn:“我爱今天的感觉。”
en:&quot;I love how I feel today.&quot;
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:所以你们可以看到，“我们感觉不错”项目用了一个叫“被动观察”的技术，意思是说它被动地观察人们的生活。它扫描全世界的博客，看人们写些什么，而人们不知道有东西在观察他们。所以人们就非常诚实，坦率而真挚的回帖常常相当感人。这是我在工作中通常喜欢用的一种技术，因为人们不知道自己被观察。他们只是过自己的生活，就是平时最自然的状态。
en:So as you can see, We Feel Fine uses a techniquethat I call &quot;passive observation.&quot;What I mean by that is that it passively observes peopleas they live their lives. It scans the world&#39;s blogsand looks at what people are writing,and these people don&#39;t know they&#39;re being watched or interviewed.And because of that,you end up getting very honest, candid, sincere responsesthat are often very moving.And this is a technique that I usually prefer in my workbecause people don&#39;t know they&#39;re being interviewed.They&#39;re just living life, and they end up just acting like that.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:另一种方法是直接提问。这是我在另一个项目“雅虎时间胶囊”摸索出来的技术，这个项目的目的是总结2006年的世界的个性特征。它分成10个非常简单的主题——爱，生气，悲伤等——每个主题都是向全世界提的一个没有固定答案的问题：你爱什么？你为什么而生气？什么会让你伤心？你相信什么？等等。这个时间胶囊放在网上一个月，翻译成10种语言，看进来是这个样子，一个旋转的球，球表面完全由人们发送给时间胶囊的照片，文字和图画组成。这10个主题成辐射状围着时间胶囊旋转。你可以筛选这些数据看看人们都提交了些什么。这个是对“什么东西美丽？”的回答：“世界小姐”。
en:Another technique is directly questioning people.And this is a technique that I explored in a different project,the Yahoo! Time Capsule,which was designed to take a fingerprint of the world in 2006.It was divided into ten very simple themes —love, anger, sadness and so on —each of which contained a single, very open-ended questionput to the world: What do you love? What makes you angry?What makes you sad? What do you believe in? And so on.The time capsule was available for one month online,translated into 10 languages, and this is what it looked like.It&#39;s a spinning globe,the surface of which is entirely composed of the picturesand words and drawings of peoplethat submitted to the time capsule.The ten themes radiate out and orbit the time capsule.You can sift through this data and see what people have submitted.This is in response to, What&#39;s beautiful? &quot;Miss World.&quot;
时间： 9:40
zh-cn:时间胶囊有两种模式。一个模式叫“整个世界”，表示成这个旋转的球，另一个模式叫“大众声音”，把数据分割显示成电影胶片一样，你可以一个一个地筛选。有一个非常令人叹为观止的活动最好地展示了这个项目，在新墨西哥州阿尔伯克基市外围的沙漠中的杰梅斯普布洛，连续3个晚上，时间胶囊的内容被投射到红岩峡谷的古城墙上，大概60米高。那真是难以言表的壮观。我们也把时间胶囊的内容转换成二进制代码，用35瓦的激光射入太空。你可以看到这些橙色的光线以大概45度角从沙漠地面发射出去。这真是漂亮，因为第一个晚上，我看着这所有的信息，才真正开始“看到“了前面说的差异——年龄，性别，财富等等的差异。
en:There are two modes to the time capsule.There&#39;s One World, which presents the spinning globe,and Many Voices, which splits the data out into film stripsand lets you sift through them one by one.So this project was punctuated by a really amazing event,which was held in the desert outside Albuquerque in New Mexicoat the Jemez Pueblo, where for three consecutive nights,the contents of the capsule were projected onto the sidesof the ancient Red Rock Canyon walls,which stand about 200 feet tall. It was really incredible.And we also projected the contents of the time capsuleas binary code using a 35-watt laser into outer space.You can see the orange line leaving the desert floorat about a 45 degree angle there. This was amazingbecause the first night I looked at all this informationand really started seeing the gaps that I talked about earlier —the differences in age, gender and wealth and so on.
时间：10:30
zh-cn:但是，你知道吗，当我对着这个东西看了又看，看着这些图片在岩石上滚动，我意识到看到的是一遍又一遍的同样的很典型的事情。比如：婚礼，生小孩，送葬，第一辆汽车，初吻，第一头骆驼或者马——取决于各自的文化。那真是感人。这张照片是从大约两英里远的一个悬崖上在最后一个晚上拍的，用激光把胶囊的内容射向太空。这把所有的人类情绪发射到夜空的感觉真的是令人激动不已。
en:But, you know, as I looked at this more and more and more,and saw these images go across the rocks,I realized I was seeing the same archetypal eventsdepicted again and again and again.You know: weddings, births, funerals, the first car, the first kiss,the first camel or horse — depending on the culture.And it was really moving. And this picture here was takenthe final night from a distant cliff about two miles away,where the contents of the capsule were being beamed into space.And there was something very movingabout all of this human expression being shot off into the night sky.
时间：11:01
zh-cn:它使我开始经常思考夜空，思考人类一直以来怎样用夜空来演绎他们让人惊叹的故事。我是在一个佛蒙特州的农场长大的，小时候我常常仰望夜空，看着猎户座腰带的三颗星星。成年之后，我对那些希腊神话描述的天空中每天晚上发生的故事有了更多了解。你们知道吗，猎户座在咆哮的公牛座对面，珀耳修斯座飞去救援仙女座，宙斯与柯罗诺斯争夺对奥林匹斯山的控制。这些都是希腊人的美好的神话。
en:And it started to make me think a lot about the night sky,and how humans have always used the night skyto project their great stories.You know, as a child in Vermont, on a farm where I grew up,I would often look up into the dark skyand see the three star belt of Orion, the Hunter.And as an adult, I&#39;ve been more awareof the great Greek myths playing out in the sky overhead every night.You know, Orion facing the roaring bull.Perseus flying to the rescue of Andromeda.Zeus battling Chronos for control of Mount Olympus.I mean, these are the great tales of the Greeks.
时间：11:30
zh-cn:它使我思考我们今天的世界，特别是如果我们今天能做出新的星座，会是什么样子？会是些什么东西？如果我们可以在天空中画新的图片，我们会画什么？现在有些什么好故事？
en:And it caused me to wonder about our world today.And it caused me to wonder specifically,if we could make new constellations today,what would those look like? What would those be?If we could make new pictures in the sky, what would we draw?What are the great stories of today?
时间：11:44
zh-cn:这些问题启发了我的新项目，今天在TED这里首次亮相，至今为止还没有人在公共场合看见过。这个项目名字叫作“宇宙”，目的是展示我们现时代的神话，它模拟了一个能互动的夜空。非常高兴现在可以演示给大家看。
en:And those are the questions that inspired my new project,which is debuting here today at TED.Nobody&#39;s seen this yet, publicly.It&#39;s called Universe: Revealing Our Modern Mythology.And it uses this metaphor of an interactive night sky.So, it&#39;s my great pleasure now to show this to you.
时间：12:02
zh-cn:这是宇宙的初始画面，你可以看到它有一个移动的星盘，以极光为背景，颜色变幻。北极光的颜色可以由底部这个色彩控制条调整，我们现在把它定为红色。然后你看到这些星星在移动。
en:So, Universe will open here.And you&#39;ll see that it leads with a shifting star field,and there&#39;s an Aurora Borealis in the background,kind of morphing with color. The color of the Aurora Borealiscan be controlled using this single bar of color at the bottom,and we&#39;ll put it down here to red.So you see this kind of — these stars moving along.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:其实，这些星星不只是一些小亮点，小像素。每个星星实际上是现实世界中的一个具体事件——比如某人写的一段话，一个图像，一个新闻故事，一个人，一个公司，对吧，有点个人英雄主义的感觉。你可能注意到当鼠标触及到一些星星的时候，会隐隐约约显示出一些形状。我们这里看到一个男人在走路，也可能是女人。在这里看到，一张有一个脑袋的照片。你开始看到文字在这里浮现。所有这些都是星座，都是现代的星座。我可以把他们都显示出来，你就看到它们在天空中移动了。
en:Now, these aren&#39;t just little points of light, little pixels.Each of those stars actually representsa specific event in the real world —a quote that was stated by somebody, an image,a news story, a person, a company. You know,some kind of heroic personality.And you might notice that as the cursor beginsto touch some of these stars, that shapes begin to emerge.We see here there&#39;s a little man walking along, or maybe a woman.And we see here a photograph with a head.You can start to see words emerging here.And those arethe constellations of today.And I can turn them all on,and you can see them moving across the sky now.
时间：13:04
zh-cn:这是2007年最后两个月的“宇宙”。这里面的数据来自于全球新闻报道的世界各地数以千计的新闻来源，用和我一起合作的一家真的很不错的纽约公司的应用程序接口，公司名字叫“天生”（Daylife）。它有点像是在过去几个月中世界发生的现代神话的思潮展示。
en:This is the universe of 2007, the last two months.The data from this is global news coveragefrom thousands of news sources around the world.It&#39;s using the API of a really great company that I work within New York, actually, called Daylife.And it&#39;s kind of the zeitgeist view at this levelof the world&#39;s current mythology over the last couple of months.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:然后，我们可以看看这里在浮现什么，比如福特总统，伊拉克，布什。我们也可以单独把文字提取出来——我称之为“秘密”——然后把它们按字母顺序排列。我们看到安娜•妮可史密斯最近有不少内容。福特总统——这是吉拉德•福特的葬礼。我们可以在“宇宙”中点击任何东西，让它成为宇宙的中心，其他一切都将进入它的环绕轨道。那么，我们点击福特，它就成为中心，所有涉及到福特的星星都进入到它的轨道围绕它运转。
en:So we can see where it&#39;s emerging here, like President Ford,Iraq, Bush. And we can actually isolate just the words —I call them secrets — and we can cause them to forman alphabetical list. And we see Anna Nicole Smithplaying a big role recently.President Ford — this is Gerald Ford&#39;s funeral.We can actually click anything in Universeand have it become the center of the universe,and everything else will enter its orbit.So, we&#39;ll click Ford, and now that becomes the center.And the things that relate to Ford enter its orbitand swirl around it.
时间：13:56
zh-cn:我们也可以只提取照片，就像现在看到的。我们可以点击这些照片，让它成为宇宙的中心。现在和它相关的事情环绕在它周围。我们按一下这个，就看到这张贝蒂•福特亲吻她丈夫的棺材的震撼人心的照片。
en:We can isolate just the photographs, and we now see those.We can click on one of thoseand have the photograph be the center of the universe.Now the things that relate to it are swirling around.We can click on this and we see this iconic imageof Betty Ford kissing her husband&#39;s coffin.
时间：14:12
zh-cn:这个“宇宙”，是没有尽头的。它是无限的，你基本上只要点击它就可以了。这是一个相片集合，叫作“快照”。但是，我们其实可以更具体地定义我们的宇宙。比如，如果我们想看看比尔•克林顿的宇宙是什么模样。让我们看看在上个礼拜他干了些什么。那么，现在我们有了一个新的宇宙，仅限于所有与比尔•克林顿有关的事情。我们可以把他的星座显示在这里，提取出他的秘密，可以发现大部分和总统候选人希拉里和奥巴马有关。我们可以看到目前克林顿正在参与的那些报道，所有这些都可以打开。这样，我们看到奥巴马和克林顿夫妇在阿拉巴马州会面。你知道这是一个重要的事件，会有很多东西在其轨道上。如果我们打开这个，我们就能看到这个故事的方方面面的信息。你可以点击任何这些东西，链接到这些信息的源头去看原文。这个是从半岛电视台来的。
en:In Universe, there&#39;s kind of no end. It just goes infinitely,and you can just kind of click on stuff.This is a photographic representation, called Snapshots.But we can actually be more specific in defining our universe.So, if we want to,let&#39;s check out what Bill Clinton&#39;s universe looks like.And let&#39;s see, in the past week, what he&#39;s been up to.So now, we have a new universe, which is just constrainedto all things Bill Clinton.We can have his constellations emerge here.We can pull out his secrets,and we see that it has a lot to do with candidates,Hillary, presidential, Barack Obama.We can see the storiesthat Bill Clinton is taking part in right now.Any of those can be opened up.So we see Obama and the Clintons meet in Alabama.You can see that this is an important story;there are a lot of things in its orbit. If we open this up,we get different perspectives on this story.You can click any of those to go out and read the articleat the source. This one&#39;s from Al Jazeera.
时间：15:14
zh-cn:我们还可以看到超级巨星，它们是比尔•克林顿的宇宙中潜藏着的男女角色（注：就像希腊神话英雄）。那里有克林顿，希拉里，伊拉克，乔治•布什，奥巴马，“滑板车”•利比（美国前副总统办公室主任）——他们可以说成是比尔•克林顿的人际脉络。我们也可以看到一张世界地图，显示克林顿在过去一周去过一些什么地方。我们可以发现基本都集中在美国，可能是因为他一直在搞竞选活动，但是这里有一些在中东的活动。我们还可以按照时间排列，就可以发现，他在上周六基本没有活动，但他在上周日上午就开始工作了，然后这个礼拜的活动慢慢减少了。
en:We can also see the superstars. These would be the peoplethat are kind of the looming heroes and heroinesin the universe of Bill Clinton. So there&#39;s Bill Clinton, Hillary,Iraq, George Bush, Barack Obama, Scooter Libby —these are kind of the people of Bill Clinton.We can also see a world map, so this shows us the geographic reachof Bill Clinton in the last week or so.We can see he&#39;s been focused in Americabecause he&#39;s been campaigning, probably,but a little bit of action over here in the Middle East.And then we can also see a timeline.So we see that he was a bit quiet on Saturday,but he was back to work on Sunday morning,and actually been tapering off since then this week.
时间：15:52
zh-cn:这个宇宙实际上不局限于人物或者日期，我们还可以观察某个概念的宇宙。比如，如果我输入2006年全年的“全球变暧”，我们将看到它的宇宙是什么样子。这里是星图，这里是形状，这里是秘密。可以发现，“全球变暧”的宇宙是很大的。内罗毕，世界会议，环境。如果你对阅读有关气候变化的文章有兴趣，这里你还可以看到文章摘录。这确实是一个没有止境的东西，对吧。
en:And it&#39;s not limited to just people or dates,but we can actually put in concepts also.So if I put in climate change for all of 2006,we&#39;ll see what that universe looks like.Here we have our star field. Here we have our shapes.Here we have our secrets.So we see again, climate change is large:Nairobi, global conference, environmental.And there are also quotes that you can see,if you&#39;re interested in reading about quotes on climate change.You know, this is really an infinite thing.
时间：16:19
zh-cn:2006年气候变化的超级巨星有：美国，英国，中国。很明显，这些都是界定这个概念的最重要的国家。所以说，这个项目很有继续探索的潜力。
en:The superstars of climate change in 2006:United States, Britain, China. You know,these are the towering countries that kind of define this concept.So this is a piece that demands exploration.
时间：16:30
zh-cn:这个项目将在几天之后在网上公开，有可能是下周二。你们都可以用它来探索一下你个人的神话世界是什么样子。你会发现在“天生”（Daylife）系统，或者更准确地说，在“宇宙”，它不仅支持一个全球神话的概念，比如泛泛的说2007年的宇宙，也支持个人神话的概念。当你查找你的小宇宙中重要的东西的时候，你也可以看到它们的星座是什么样的。
en:This will be online in several days, probably next Tuesday.And you&#39;ll all be able to use it and kind of explorewhat your own personal mythology might be.You&#39;ll notice that in Daylife — rather, in Universe —it supports both the notion of a global mythology,which is represented by something as broad as, say, 2007,and also a personal mythology.As you search for the things that are important to you in your world,and then see what the constellations of those might look like.
时间：16:59
zh-cn:很高兴和大家分享。非常感谢。再次谢谢。
en:So it&#39;s been a pleasure. Thank you very much.
时间：17:02
zh-cn:（大家鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
