时间： 0:13
zh-cn:这是什么？大部分人看到的是理发店我看到的却是机会促进健康的机会促进健康平权的机会。
en:What do you see?Most of you see a barbershop,but I see an opportunity:an opportunity for health,an opportunity for health equity.
时间： 0:29
zh-cn:对黑人来说，理发店不仅仅是一个帮你剪头发、刮胡子的地方。不，远远不止如此。历史上，理发店是黑人的避风港是我们获得友谊相互支持和安慰的地方是我们排解压力从繁重的工作和家庭压力解脱出来的地方。在这里我们不用担心外界眼光在这里我们不会感到威胁和被他人威胁的地方。一个充满忠诚和信任的地方。因为这些原因它是少数几个我们可以毫无顾虑地做自己轻松聊天的地方。闲扯、乱聊、谈心这就是黑人理发店的本质。
en:For black men, the barbershopis not just a placewhere you get your hair cutor your beard trimmed.No, it&#39;s much more than that.Historically, the barbershophas been a safe haven for black men.It&#39;s a place where we go for friendship,solidarity and solace.It&#39;s a place where we goto get away from the stressof the grind of workand sometimes home life.It&#39;s a place where we don&#39;t have to worryabout how we&#39;re being perceivedby the outside world.It&#39;s a place where we don&#39;tfeel threatened,or threatening.It&#39;s a place of loyalty and trust.For that reason,it&#39;s one of the few placeswhere we can fearlessly be ourselvesand just ... talk.The talk, the shop talk, the conversation,that is the essenceof the black barbershop.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:我记得小时候和爸爸去理发店我们每隔一个周六去麦克先生家的理发店就像钟表发条一样，每次我们去都会有同样一群人在那里要么在等他们最喜欢的理发师要么沉浸在那种氛围中。
en:I can remember going to the barbershopwith my dad as a kid.We went to Mr. Mike&#39;s barbershopevery other Saturday.And like clockwork,the same group of men would be thereevery time we went,either waiting on their favorite barberor just soaking up the atmosphere.
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:我记得每次去的时候都受到热情的问候。
en:I can remember the jovial greetingthat warmly welcomed usevery time we went.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:“嘿，小雷。” 他们向我爸打招呼。我爸是当地的牧师 他们像对待名人一样对待他。
en:&quot;Hey Rev,&quot; they would say to my dad.He&#39;s a local pastor,and they treated him like a celebrity.
时间： 2:08
zh-cn:“嘿，小家伙，你好。”他们向我打招呼。这让我觉得自己很特别。
en:&quot;Hey young fella, how you doing?&quot;they would say to me,making me feel just as special.
时间： 2:16
zh-cn:我记得谈话的主题无所不包。男人们会谈论政治、体育和音乐国际新闻、国内新闻邻居的新情况有时也会谈论女人以及身为黑人在美国是什么感觉。但很多时候他们还会谈论健康。他们会长时间地深入讨论。他们经常会详述医生的建议减少对盐的摄入少吃油炸食品停止抽烟或者减少压力他们会谈论很多不同的减压方法比如简化爱情生活
en:I remember the rangeof the conversations was immense.The men would talk about politicsand sports and musicand world news, national news,neighborhood news.There was some talk about womenand what it was like to bea black man in America.But many times they alsotalked about health.The conversations about healthwere lengthy and deep.The men often recountedtheir doctor&#39;s recommendationsto cut salt in their dietor to eat less fried foodsor to stop smokingor to reduce stress.They talked about the different waysyou could reduce stress,like simplifying one&#39;s love life —
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:还有治疗高血压的各种方式。
en:all ways to treat high blood pressure.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:在理发店有很多关于高血压的谈话因为接近40%的黑人都患有高血压。这意味着几乎所有单身黑人男性要么患有高血压要么认识得高血压的人。
en:There&#39;s a lot of talk abouthigh blood pressure in the barbershop.That&#39;s because almost 40 percentof black men have it.That means that almostevery single black maneither has high blood pressureor knows a black man who has it.
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:有时候，这些在理发店的谈话是有关高血压没有得到充分治疗时造成的后果。
en:Sometimes, those conversationsin the barbershopwould be about what happenswhen high blood pressureis not adequately addressed.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:“你听说杰米怎么了吗？他中风了。”
en:&quot;Say, did you hear about Jimmy?He had a stroke.&quot;
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:“你听说艾迪怎么了吗？他上周死了。严重心脏病他才50岁。”
en:&quot;Did you hear about Eddie?He died last week.Massive heart attack.He was 50.&quot;
时间： 4:01
zh-cn:黑人死于高血压的人数远高于其他种族哪怕几十年来，医疗和科技进步证明只要及时诊断和正确治疗高血压引发的死亡是可以避免的。
en:More black men die from high bloodpressure than from anything else,even though decades of medical wisdomand science have demonstratedthat death from high blood pressurecan be preventedwith timely diagnosisand appropriate treatment.
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:那为什么黑人死于高血压的人数如此之高？因为很多患有高血压的黑人要么得不到治疗要么治疗不充分大多因为参加初级保健制度的黑人很少尤其是那些患高血压的黑人相对于其他群体更不大可能拥有一个保健医生。
en:So why is high blood pressureso differentially deadly for black men?Because too often, high blood pressureis either untreatedor under-treated in black men,in part because of our lower engagementwith the primary healthcare system.Black men, in particularthose with high blood pressure,are less likely to havea primary care doctorthan other groups.
时间： 4:43
zh-cn:为什么？一些关于黑人健康的早期研究表明诊所对很多黑人来说意味着恐惧猜疑轻视以及不必要的不愉快经历。诊所是你不舒服时去的地方。当你去了诊所你可能需要等待数个小时只等来各种怠慢然后穿白大褂的冰冷人士花十分钟来做检查而且根本懒得和你谈话。难怪一些人不想这么麻烦于是压根不去见医生特别是他们感觉还行的时候。
en:But why?Some of our earliest researchon black men&#39;s healthrevealed that for many, the doctor&#39;soffice is associated with fear,mistrust,disrespect,and unnecessary unpleasantness.The doctor&#39;s office is only a placethat you go when you don&#39;t feel well.And when you do go,you might wait for hoursonly to get the run-aroundand to be evaluated bya stoic figure in a white coatwho only has 10 minutes to give youand who doesn&#39;t value the talk.So it&#39;s no wonder that some mendon&#39;t want to be botheredand skip going to the doctor altogether,especially if they feel fine.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:但这里就会产生了问题。虽然你感觉无恙高血压却在你身体的大部分重要器官里肆虐。
en:But herein lies the problem.You can feel just finewhile high blood pressure ravagesyour most vital organs.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:这是丹尼摩 (Denny Moe)纽约哈莱姆区丹尼摩超级巨星理发店店主。过去八年，有丹尼做我的理发师，我很幸运。
en:This is Denny Moe,owner of Denny Moe&#39;sSuperstar Barbershop in Harlem.I&#39;ve been lucky enough to have Dennyas my barber for the last eight years.
时间： 5:57
zh-cn:他曾经跟我说“医生，你知道吗许多黑人宁可相信他们的理发师也不相信他们的医生。”
en:He said to me once,&quot;Hey Doc, you know,lots of black men trust their barbersmore than they trust their doctors.&quot;
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:起初我很震惊但我仔细想了一下后就不惊讶了黑人和他们的理发师认识的时间平均达到八年和我认识丹尼的时间一样长。黑人每两星期见他们的理发师一次他们不仅在外貌和风格塑造上信任理发师而且在分享秘密、有时在私人生活方面也信任理发师丹尼就像很多理发师，不仅仅是艺术家商人、密友。他还是社区健康的领袖和热情的号召者。我第一次走进丹尼摩的理发店他不仅仅在为客人理发他正激励顾客去注册，成为选民为他的顾客和社区发声。
en:This was stunning to me,at first,but not so much when you think about it.Black men have been with theircurrent barberson average as longas I&#39;ve been with Denny,about eight years.And black men see their barbersabout every two weeks.Not only do you trust your barberwith your look and with your style,but you also trust him with your secretsand sometimes your life.Denny, like many barbers,is more than just an artist,a businessman and confidant.He&#39;s a leader and a passionate advocatefor the well-being of his community.The very first time I walkedinto Denny Moe&#39;s shop,he wasn&#39;t just cutting hair.He was also orchestratinga voter registration driveto give a voice to his customersand his community.
时间： 7:05
zh-cn:这种活动和社区投资是黑人理发店的典型做法因此理发店理所当然是个完美的地方来讨论高血压和社区里的其他健康问题。
en:With this kind of activism,and community investmentthat typifies the black barbershop,of course the barbershopis a perfect placeto talk about high blood pressure andother health concerns in the community.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:首先，理发店不是一个医疗机构因此没有随之而来的负面心理负担。当你在理发店里时你在你的领地里，在朋友中间他们了解你的历史你的挣扎和你的健康风险。
en:First, the barbershop is nota medical setting,and so it doesn&#39;t haveall the negative psychological baggagethat comes along with that.When you&#39;re in a barbershop,you&#39;re in your territory,and you&#39;re among friendswho share your history,your struggle and your health risks.
时间： 7:42
zh-cn:第二，因为理发店是一个关系网人们忠诚而彼此信任所以你会在健康话题上敞开心扉尤其是有关高血压的。毕竟，有关高血压的交谈具备所有精彩的商店谈话的元素：压力和高血压食物和高血压人际关系和高血压而且没错，美国黑人生存处境与高血压的关系。
en:Second, because the barbershopis a place of connection,loyalty and trust,it&#39;s a place where you&#39;re more opento have a conversation about healthand especially about high blood pressure.After all,conversations about high blood pressurehave all the elements of great shop talk:stress and high blood pressure,food and high blood pressure,relationships and high blood pressure,and yes, what it&#39;s liketo be a black man in Americaand high blood pressure.
时间： 8:16
zh-cn:但除了在理发店里谈论高血压你还可以做更多。你可以切实采取行动。我们有机会与丹尼摩的理发店合作帮助社区更好地处理导致高血压的保健不公平现象。1960和70年代当高血压筛查从诊所和医院扩展到社区黑人医师，比如巴尔的摩的爱丽桑德斯(Eli Saunders)博士新奥尔良的基斯费迪南德(Keith Ferdinand)博士率先在城市黑人社区的中心枢纽引入更好的保健措施。
en:But you can do more than just talkabout high blood pressurein the barbershop.You can concretely take action.Here we have an opportunity to partnerwith the Denny Moe&#39;s of the worldand empower communitiesto address the health inequitiesthat uniquely affect it.When high blood pressure screeningexpanded from clinics and hospitalsto communities in the 1960s and &#39;70s,black physicians likeDr. Eli Saunders in Baltimoreand Dr. Keith Ferdinand in New Orleanswere at the forefront of bringinghealth promotion to community hubsin urban black neighborhoods.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:这些先驱为我的职业生涯铺平道路我从芝加哥的医学院开始将理发店和健康联系在一起。
en:These pioneers paved the wayfor my professional journeywith barbershops and health,which began in Chicago in medical school.
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:我作为医学院学生的第一个研究项目是帮助设计保健干预措施以便吸引黑人就医。我们有大约12个焦点小组广泛囊括各个类型的黑人我们让他们了解到健康不仅仅是看上去健康而且要感觉健康而感觉健康也会让人看起来气色更好。这推动了兄弟项目(Project Brotherhood)的发展这是艾瑞克惠特克(Eric Whitaker)博士创办的一家社区诊所为黑人群体提供量身定做的医疗保健。部分特殊医疗包括将理发师纳入其中为那些前来进行所需治疗的人提供一次免费理发作为奖励让他们知道我们就像重视他们的感受一样重视他们的外表他们重视的东西也是我们重视的东西。
en:The very first research projectthat I worked on as a medical studentwas to help designhealthcare interventionsthat would appeal to black men.We conducted about a dozen focus groupswith a broad cross-section of black men,and we learned that for them,being healthy was as much aboutbeing perceived as healthyas it was about feeling healthy,and that feeling goodwent hand in hand with looking good.This work led to the developmentof Project Brotherhood,a community clinic foundedby Dr. Eric Whitakerthat provided tailoredhealthcare to black men.Part of this tailored careinvolved having a barber on the premisesto reward the men who camefor needed healthcarewith a free haircut,to let the men know that we, too,valued how they lookedas well as how they felt,and that what was important to themwas also important to us.
时间：10:09
zh-cn:虽然兄弟项目只有一个但我们还有数千家理发店我们可以充分开发这些健康和理发的交汇点。我行程的下一站是德州的达拉斯我们发现那里的理发师不仅仅愿意而且完全有能力卷起袖子参与到传播必要的医疗服务工作中来为促进顾客健康和提升社区做贡献。我们将很多杰出的黑人理发师组织起来教会他们如何测量血压怎样为顾客提建议向他们推荐医生帮助他们控制血压。理发师们不仅愿意这么做而且他们做得太棒了。在三年中理发师们为数千人测量了血压介绍数百名黑人前往就医接受高血压的治疗。这些理发师和医生的合作项目导致能够达到目标血压水平的人提高了20%每个参与者的血压指数平均降低了三点。如果我们能让每一个患高血压的美国黑人的血压指数都降低三点我们就能在一年时间内防止由高血压引起的800次心脏病、500次中风和900例死亡。
en:But while there&#39;s only oneProject Brotherhood,there are thousands of black barbershopswhere the intersection of healthand haircuts can be cultivated.The next stop on my journeywas Dallas, Texas,where we learned that barberswere not only willingbut fully able to roll uptheir sleeves and participatein delivering needed health servicesto improve the health of their customersand their community.We teamed up with an amazingcadre of black barbersand taught them howto measure blood pressureand how to counsel their customersand refer them to doctorsto help manage high blood pressure.The barbers were not only willing to do itbut they were damn good at it.Over a three-year period,the barbers measuredthousands of blood pressuresresulting in hundreds of black menbeing referred to doctorsfor medical careof their high blood pressure.These barber-doctor partnershipsresulted in a 20 percent increasein the number of menwho were able to achievetarget blood pressure levelsand a three-point drop, on average,in the blood pressure of each participant.If we were to extrapolatethat three point dropto every single black manwith high blood pressure in America,we would prevent 800 heart attacks,500 strokes and 900 deathsfrom high blood pressurein just one year.
时间：11:43
zh-cn:我们与纽约理发师的合作也一样这也是我目前开展工作的地方。我的队伍很出色我们有多元化的研究助手社区保健工人和志愿者我们已经与超过200家理发店以及其他可信的社区场所合作接触到超过7000名黑人。我们为每个人提供高血压筛查和咨询。谢谢丹尼摩等众多理发师以及社区领导们他们也看到了改变社区的机遇和力量。我们不仅降低了项目参与者的血压而且还影响到其他健康指数。
en:And our experience with barbershopshas been no different in New York City,where my journey has currently led me.With an incredible teamof diverse research assistants,community health workers and volunteers,we&#39;ve been able to partnerwith over 200 barbershopsand other trusted community venuesto reach over 7,000 older black men.And we&#39;ve offered high blood pressurescreening and counselingto each and every one of them.Thanks to Denny Moeand the myriad other barbersand community leaderswho shared the vision of opportunityand empowermentto make a difference in their communities,we&#39;ve been able to not onlylower blood pressurein our participants,but we&#39;ve also been able to impactother health indicators.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:所以，你怎么看？你的“理发店”是什么？你心目中的这个地方是哪里？那个能够为面对独特难题的人们提供独特的解决方式的地方？当你找到那个地方，那就是你的机会。
en:So what do you see?What is your barbershop?Where is that place for youwhere people who are affectedby a unique problemcan meet a unique solution?When you find that place,see the opportunity.
时间：13:01
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：13:02
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
