时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我今天将要来谈谈在这个现代经济社会发生的十分根本的变化。要谈论哲学， 我就要从开始谈起，因为这一切都是从产品开始的产品就是你从地里种出来的，从地里种出来或长出来：基本上，动物，矿物，植物。然后把它们从地里提取出来，再将他们从自由市场中售出。产品是上千年农业经济的基础。然后接下来有了工业革命，然后货物就占了主导经济的主要提供品，那就是将原产品当作原材料用以加工和制作成商品。
en:I&#39;m going to talk about a very fundamental change that is going onin the very fabric of the modern economy.And to talk about that, I&#39;m going to go back to the beginning,because in the beginning were commodities.Commodities are things that you grow in the ground, raise on the ground or pull out of the ground:basically, animal, mineral, vegetable.And then you extract them out of the ground,and sell them on the open marketplace.Commodities were the basis of the agrarian economythat lasted for millennia.But then along came the industrial revolution,and then goods became the predominant economic offering,where we used commodities as a raw materialto be able to make or manufacture goods.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:所以，我们就从农业经济转到了工业经济。那么，在上50-60年又发生了什么，那就是货物又商品化了。商品化：那就是货物变的和原始商品一样，人们不用考虑谁制造商品。他们只考虑到了3件事，只有3件事：价格，价格和价格。
en:So, we moved from an agrarian economy to an industrial economy.Well, what then happened over the last 50 or 60 years,is that goods have become commoditized.Commoditized: where they&#39;re treated like a commodity,where people don&#39;t care who makes them.They just care about three things and three things only:price, price and price.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:现在，商品化还有一个解毒剂，那就是个性化。我的第一本书叫做“大规模个性化” —昨天大家多次提到这个问题而我发现这个经济价值的过程是认识到货物的个性化过程自动地将货物转换为一种服务，因为他就为一些特定的人而做，就因为它不用库存他是为个人的要求而定做的。
en:Now, there&#39;s an antidote to commoditization,and that is customization.My first book was called &quot;Mass Customization&quot; —it came up a couple of times yesterday —and how I discovered this progression of economic valuewas realizing that customizing a goodautomatically turned it into a service,because it was done just for a particular person,because it wasn&#39;t inventoried,it was delivered on demand to that individual person.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:所以我们从工业经济转到独立的个人。但是就在上10到20年，所发生的是服务业也被商品化了。远距离电话服务就在于价格，价格，价格；快餐店提供了合理的价格不仅仅是货物，就连互联网也被大众化了，连服务也大众化了那意味着转战到一个新的经济价值的时候到了超越货物及其服务的时候到了然后运用，套用同样的逻辑，当你个性化服务时又会发生什么？当你为某个人去设计一个特别合适那个人需要的服务时提供了他们正需要的东西是，是怎样的一个情形？那么你就不会不让他们大声惊叹你会不自觉的把它变成一个值得纪念的事情你会不自觉的把它变成了一种体验。
en:So, we moved from an industrial economy to a service-based economy.But over the past 10 or 20 years, what&#39;s happened is thatservices are being commoditized as well.Long-distance telephone service sold on price, price, price;fast-food restaurants with all their value pricing;and even the Internet is commoditizing not just goods,but services as well.What that means is that it&#39;s timeto move to a new level of economic value.Time to go beyond the goods and the services,and use, in that same heuristic, what happens when you customize a service?What happens when you design a service that is so appropriate for a particular person —that&#39;s exactly what they need at this moment in time?Then you can&#39;t help but make them go &quot;wow&quot;;you can&#39;t help but turn it into a memorable event —you can&#39;t help but turn it into an experience.
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:所以我们又来到了体验经济，体验就为了主要的卖点在我大多数演讲的地方，当我在讲解体验的时候，我谈到迪士尼 —世界最初体验舞台。我谈谈主题餐馆，一个体验性的零售机构，精品旅馆，和拉斯维加斯 —世界体验的首都。但是这里，当你在想体验的时候，想想托马斯都比和他的团队，在演奏音乐。想想有意义的地方。想想品尝红酒，想想一次去永久时钟的旅行。那些都是体验。想想TED本身。会议世界的体验中心。这些都是体验。
en:So we&#39;re shifting to an experience economy,where experiences are becoming the predominant economic offering.Now most places that I talk to,when I talk about experience, I talk about Disney —the world&#39;s premier experience-stager.I talk about theme restaurants, and experiential retail,and boutique hotels, and Las Vegas —the experience capital of the world.But here, when you think about experiences,think about Thomas Dolby and his group, playing music.Think about meaningful places.Think about drinking wine,about a journey to the Clock of the Long Now.Those are all experiences. Think about TED itself.The experience capital in the world of conferences.All of these are experiences.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:现在，在过去几年里，我在欧洲待了不少时间，特别是在荷兰，一旦当我在那谈到体验经济的时候，我总会被问到一个特定的问题，几乎是不变的。而且是一个称不上是什么问题的问题几乎就像指控一般。而且那些荷兰人，当他们提起来这个问题的时候，一般都用五个字来开头。你知道我指的是那五个吗？你们美国佬。他们说到，你们美国佬。你们喜欢你们幻想的环境，你们造假，你们的迪士尼乐园体验，他们说到，我们荷兰人，我们喜欢真实，自然的，真实的体验。在这个问题发生了那么多次后，我就开发了一个相当实用的回答，那就是：我要先指出，你要了解到，根本就没有什么不真实的体验。为什么？因为体验是来自于我们自身。是对被放置我们面前东西的一种反应。所以，只要我们真实的人类，那么任何体验都是真实的。现在，这里也许多少有些自然或人工模拟的因素会帮助刺激人的体验但是就算是那样。也从来没有过什么100%的纯天然体验。就算你走到森林里，那也有一个制造汽车的公司用汽车把你送到森林边制造鞋子的公司为你提供保护你在森林里行走的鞋子那也有一个在你迷路时提供手机服务的公司。对吧？这都是人造的，被你人造的带到了森林里，非常自然的存在于一切之中
en:Now, over the last several years I spent a lot of time in Europe,and particularly in the Netherlands,and whenever I talk about the experience economy there,I&#39;m always greeted at the end with one particular question,almost invariably.And the question isn&#39;t really so much a questionas an accusation.And the Dutch, when they usually put it,it always starts with the same two words.You know the words I mean?You Americans.They say, you Americans.You like your fantasy environments,your fake, your Disneyland experiences.They say, we Dutch, we like real,natural, authentic experiences.So much has that happened that I&#39;ve developed a fairly praticed response,which is: I point out that first of all,you have to understand that there is no such thingas an inauthentic experience.Why? Because the experience happens inside of us.It&#39;s our reaction to the events that are staged in front of us.So, as long as we are in any sense authentic human beings,then every experience we have is authentic.Now, there may be more or less natural or artificialstimuli for the experience,but even that is a matter of degree, not kind.And there&#39;s no such thing as a 100 percent natural experience.Even if you go for a walk in the proverbial woods,there is a company that manufactured the carthat delivered you to the edge of the woods;there&#39;s a company that manufactured the shoes that you haveto protect yourself from the ground of the woods.There&#39;s a company that provides a cell phone service you havein case you get lost in the woods.Right? All of those are man-made,artificiality brought into the woods by you,and by the very nature of being there.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:然后我总这样结尾说到 — 这个问题最让我感到其妙的是，特别对于你们荷兰来说，那就是在荷兰所有的一切都是和迪士尼一样人造的。（笑）然后那些荷兰人，他们总会...然后发觉，我是对的！在这整个国家内，没有一平方米不是填海而来的，或被移动的，修改的或修剪的让它看起来就好像是原先就在那的。这是唯一一个你散下步也会发现树都是被排列成行的地方。（笑）
en:And then I always finish offby talking about — the thing that amazes me the most about this question,particularly coming from the Dutch,is that the Netherlandsis every bit as manufactured as Disneyland.(Laughter)And the Dutch, they always go ...and they realize, I&#39;m right!There isn&#39;t a square meter of ground in the entire countrythat hasn&#39;t been reclaimed from the sea,or otherwise moved, modified and manicuredto look as if it had always been there.It&#39;s the only place you ever go for a walk in the woods and all the trees are lined up in rows.(Laughter)
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:但是话又说回来，不仅仅是荷兰人，所有人都有渴求真实的欲望。由此真实性就成为了消费者新的知觉 —被哪个消费者所选择的哪个经销商以及他们所要购买的标准。这变成了经济新的基础。事实上，你可以看看这些经济是怎样发展的，每一个都有他们各自的商业需要，去迎合消费者的感知。在农业经济里，我们提供原始商品。关系到是供应和可得性把商品送到市场上。
en:But nonetheless, not just the Dutch,but everyone has this desire for the authentic.And authenticity is thereforebecoming the new consumer sensibility —the buying criteria by which consumersare choosing who are they going to buy from,and what they&#39;re going to buy.Becoming the basis of the economy.In fact, you can look at how each of these economies developed,that each one has their own business imperative,matched with a consumer sensibility.We&#39;re the agrarian economy, and we&#39;re supplying commodities.It&#39;s about supply and availability.Getting the commodities to market.
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:在工业经济里，是关于控制价格 —尽可能降低成本所以我们可以大规模的提供。在服务经济关系到提升质量。那就是 — 在过去20-30年里服务经济带动了质量运动。
en:With the industrial economy, it is about controlling costs —getting the costs down as low as possibleso we can offer them to the masses.With the service economy, it is aboutimproving quality.That has — the whole quality movement has risenwith the service economy over the past 20 or 30 years.
时间： 5:57
zh-cn:而现在的体验经济则关系到呈现真实性。渲染真实性 — 关键词是“渲染”。对吧？渲染，因为你需要让你的消费者 —作为商人 —感觉提供的就像真实的。因为这里有个基本的悖论：没有人可以有非真实的体验，同样也没有业务可以提供非真实的体验。因为所有的业务都是人造的物体，所有的业务都和钱有关；所有的业务都使用机械，这些都会让东西变得不真实所以，你怎样去渲染真实性，是一个问题。你在渲染真实性吗？
en:And now, with the experience economy,it&#39;s about rendering authenticity.Rendering authenticity — and the keyword is &quot;rendering.&quot;Right? Rendering, because you have to get your consumers —as business people —to percieve your offerings as authentic.Because there is a basic paradox:no one can have an inauthentic experience,but no business can supply one.Because all businesses are man-made objects; all business is involved with money;all business is a matter of using machinery,and all those things make something inauthentic.So, how do you render authenticity,is the question.Are you rendering authenticity?
时间： 6:41
zh-cn:当你在想这些的时候，让我们回到莱昂内尔特里林在他的书里提到的真实性，1960年出版的 “诚恳的和真实的”被当成是学术重点，你可以当作是将真实性编入了词典。自然也出现在莎士比亚在他的哈姆雷特里在哈姆雷特的某场戏里，在哈姆雷特所有最假的一个人物，波洛尼厄斯说了一些特别真实的话在他的一长串遗言里他对他的儿子拉尔特斯说到，他说：最重要的是忠于自我如夜以继日般奉行也不致对人虚假这三句话就是真实性的核心。真实有两个层面：一个，对自己真实，这是从自己来讲。第二个，是对别人来讲，你对别人忠于你所说的我不太了解你们，但是只要我遇到两个层面的事情，我立即想到，啊，二乘二！对吗？还有其他人这样吗？没有？恩，如果你这样想，你会这样想的，事实上，二乘二。这里，一个层面是关于对自己要真实。就生意而言，你所提供的产品本身是否终于自我呢第二个层面是：它们在别人看来是否如描述的一样呢？如果不是，就有一个，不忠于自我以及并非如你所说的一样，坐落在一个二乘二的矩阵里。当然了，如果你既对你自己真实，也和你所说的是一样，那么你就是真真！（笑）
en:When you think about that, let me go back towhat Lionel Trilling, in his seminal book on authenticity,&quot;Sincerity and Authenticity&quot; — came out in 1960 —points to as the seminal pointat which authenticity entered the lexicon,if you will.And that is, to no surprise, in Shakespeare,and in his play, Hamlet.And there is one part in this play, Hamlet,where the most fake of all the characters in Hamlet, Polonius,says something profoundly real.At the end of a laundry list of advicehe&#39;s giving to his son, Laertes,he says this:And this above all: to thine own self be true.And it doth follow, as night the day,that thou canst not then be false to any man.And those three verses are the core of authenticity.There are two dimensions to authenticity:one, being true to yourself, which is very self-directed.Two, is other-directed:being what you say you are to others.And I don&#39;t know about you, but whenever I encounter two dimensions,I immediately go, ahh, two-by-two!All right? Anybody else like that, no?Well, if you think about that, you do, in fact, geta two-by-two.Where, on one dimension it&#39;s a matter of being true to yourself.As businesses, are the economic offerings you are providing —are they true to themselves?And the other dimension is:are they what they say they are to others?If not, you have,&quot;is not true to itself,&quot; and &quot;is not what it says it is,&quot;yielding a two-by-two matrix.And of course, if you are both true to yourself,and are what you say you are, then you&#39;re real real!(Laughter)
时间： 8:21
zh-cn:相反的，当然了，— 假假好了，现在，假也有价值。总会有一些公司到处在提供假货因为总有对假货的需要。事实上，有这样一个原则：如果你不喜欢它，它就是假的如果你喜欢它，它肯定是人造的。（笑）
en:The opposite, of course, is — fake fake.All right, now, there is value for fake.There will always be companies around to supply the fake,because there will always be desire for the fake.Fact is, there&#39;s a general rule: if you don&#39;t like it, it&#39;s fake;if you do like it, it&#39;s faux.(Laughter)
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:现在硬币的其他两面是：真的假 —那就是产品忠于它说说的但是对自己不是真实的，或者是一个假的真：对自己是真实的，但是不忠于它所说的你可以想想这两个 — 你知道，这两个比假假都要好 — 不一定比真真一样好。你可以这样来比较环球影城商店街和迪斯尼世界，或迪士尼乐园。环球影城商店街是真的虚假实际上，我们从艾达露易丝胡克斯特波的书中有这样一个术语，“虚假的美国”一本神奇的书，那里她谈到了环球影城商店街她不喜欢假的，但是她说到，起码那是一个真的假像，对了，因为你可以看到背后的东西，对吗？它就和它所提到的一样：一个环球影城它在洛杉矶，你会走很多路。对了？你不想在洛杉矶里走很多路，好了，你在这里就得走很多路在这个城市里面的外面。不过它真的忠于自我吗？它真的是在城市里面吗？是吗？你可以看到后面的一切，而且你可以看到在前面所进行的一切。所以他把它称为真的假。
en:Now, the other two sides of the coin are:being a real fake —is what it says it is,but is not true to itself,or being a fake real:is true to itself, but not what it says it is.You can think about those two — you know, both of thesebetter than being fake fake — not quite as good as being real real.You can contrast them by thinking aboutUniversal City Walk versusDisney World, or Disneyland.Universal City Walk is a real fake —in fact, we got this very termfrom Ada Louise Huxtable&#39;s book, &quot;The Unreal America.&quot;A wonderful book, where she talks about Universal City Walk as —you know, she decries the fake, but she says, at least that&#39;s a real fake,right, because you can see behind the facade, right?It is what it says it is: It&#39;s Universal Studio;it&#39;s in the city of Los Angeles; you&#39;re going to walk a lot.Right? You don&#39;t tend to walk a lot in Los Angeles,well, here&#39;s a place where you are going to walk a lot,outside in this city.But is it really true to itself?Right? Is it really in the city?Is it —you can see behind all of it,and see what is going on in the facades of it.So she calls it a real fake.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:迪士尼乐园，另一方面来讲，是一个假的真，或虚假现实。对吧？它并非象它说的那样。它不是一个真的梦幻王国。（笑）但是这是 — 哦，对不起，我不是故意的 —（笑）—对不起。那我们就不谈圣诞老人了。（笑）但是迪士尼乐园对自己是十分真实的。对吗？对自己是真实的。你在那时，你就会沉浸在一个奇幻的环境里。所以，它是假的真。
en:Disney World, on the other hand, is a fake real,or a fake reality.Right? It&#39;s not what it says it is. It&#39;s not really the magic kingdom.(Laughter)But it is — oh, I&#39;m sorry, I didn&#39;t mean to —(Laughter)— sorry.We won&#39;t talk about Santa Claus then.(Laughter)But Disney World is wonderfully true to itself.Right? Just wonderfully true to itself.When you are there you are just immersedin this wonderful environment.So, it&#39;s a fake real.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:在这点上最容易犯错的就是不成为真真对吗？对自己不真实的最简单的方法是不了解你的传统因此而否认你的传统对吗，对自己真实的关键是知道你在生意上是谁。知道你的传统是什么，你过去做了什么。你过去做了什么会限制你现在可以做的事关键的是，会限制你的未来。所以，你必须要了解过去。
en:Now the easiest wayto fall down in this,and not be real real,right, the easiest way not to be true to yourselfis not to understand your heritage,and thereby repudiate that heritage.Right, the key of being true to yourself is knowing who you are as a business.Knowing where your heritage is: what you have done in the past.And what you have done in the past limits what you can do,what you can get away with, essentially, in the future.So, you have to understand that past.
时间：10:51
zh-cn:再想想迪士尼。迪士尼，10到15年前，对吗，迪士尼 — 一个以家庭价值而知名的公司，迪士尼买下了ABC公司，ABC公司，就是被大家所熟知的T&amp;A网络，对吗 —这没有太多专有名词吧？对了，就是T&amp;A网络。然后它买了米高梅電影公司，它以NC-17限制级影片出名然后突然间，所有家庭都不信认迪士尼所的节目了它不再对自己的传统不再对忠于沃特迪士尼的特色那就是为什么他们今天面临困境的原因之一也是为什么迪斯尼会去找艾斯纳。因为它不再忠于自我了所以，了解到你的过去会限制到你未来所能做的。
en:Think about Disney again.Disney,10 or 15 years ago, right,the Disney — the company that is probablybest-known for family values out there,Disney bought the ABC network.The ABC network, affectionately known in the tradeas the T&amp;A network, right —that&#39;s not too much jargon, is it?Right, the T&amp;A network. Then it bought Miramax,known for its NC-17 fare,and all of a sudden, families everywherecouldn&#39;t really trust what they were getting from Disney.It was no longer true to its heritage;no longer true to Walt Disney.That&#39;s one of the reasons why they&#39;re having such trouble today,and why Roy Disney is out to get Michael Eisner.Because it is no longer true to itself.So, understand what — your past limits what you can do in the future.
时间：11:37
zh-cn:当谈到忠于你所说的，公司最容易犯的错误就是他们标榜不实的广告那于是人们就视你为假的谎骗的公司—去广告非你所说的那种产品。想想任何一个酒店，任何一家航空公司，任何一家医院。对了，如果你就看看广告，你会有一个不错的体验。（笑）但是，不幸的是，你必须体验真正的酒店，航空公司和医院，然后就就有种失落感。然后你就有那种你被骗了的感觉。所以，当你被提到和你是一样的第一件事是，是提供给人们感受你是谁的一个地方。让人们去体验你是谁。对，不要让广告去做这个。
en:When it comes to being what you say you are, the easiest mistake that companies makeis that they advertisethings that they are not.That&#39;s when you&#39;re perceived as fake, as a phony company —advertizing things that you&#39;re not.Think about any hotel, any airline,any hospital.Right, if you could check into the ads, you&#39;d have a great experience.(Laughter)But unfortunately, you have to experience the actual hotel,airline and hospital, and then you have that disconnect.Then you have that perception that you are phony.So, the number one thing to do when it comes to being what you say you are,is to provide places for people to experiencewho you are.For people to experience who you are.Right, it&#39;s not advertising does it.
时间：12:21
zh-cn:那也就是为什么会有想星巴克这样的公司，对，从来不做广告。他们说到，你想知道我们是谁，你就必须来体验我们。想想他们通过体验创造的经济价值。对吧？咖啡，它的核心是什么？对吗？是咖啡豆，对吗？是咖啡豆。你知道咖啡值多少钱吗？当我们只把咖啡豆作为商品的时候。2或3分钱一杯 — 就值那个价。但是研磨它，烘培它，包装它，放在一个商店的架子上，就会值5，10，15美分，当你像货物对待它。同样的货物，你在顾客面前提供泡制的服务，在一个饭馆里或商店里，你会得到50美分，也许一美元每一杯。但是在有星巴克气氛下去泡制咖啡，室内有西洋杉原木的装潢，现在因为多了这原汁原味的体验，你可以每杯咖啡收费2，3，4，5美元。所以，真实已经成为消费者新的感知。
en:That&#39;s why you have companies like Starbucks,right, that doesn&#39;t advertise at all.They said, you want to know who we are, you have to come experience us.And think about the economic value they have providedby that experience.Right? Coffee, at its core, is what?Right? It&#39;s beans; right? It&#39;s coffee beans.You know how much coffee is worth, when treated as a commodity as a bean?Two or three cents per cup — that&#39;s what coffee is worth.But grind it, roast it, package it, put it on a grocery store shelf,and now it&#39;ll cost five, 10, 15 cents,when you treat it as a good.Take that same good,and perform the service of actually brewing it for a customer,in a corner diner, in a bodega, a kiosk somewhere,you get 50 cents, maybe a buckper cup of coffee.But surround the brewing of that coffeewith the ambiance of a Starbucks,with the authentic cedar that goes inside of there,and now, because of that authentic experience,you can charge two, three, four, five dollarsfor a cup of coffee.So, authenticity is becomingthe new consumer sensibility.
时间：13:30
zh-cn:让我为在座的商人做个总结，3条规则，3条基本规则。第一，如果你真的不真实就不要说你是真实的。第二，如果你不说你是真实的就很容易做真实的。第三，如果你说你是真实的，你最好就是真实的。现在为了听众里的消费者们做一个总结能让我们高兴的事就是花钱和花时间去满足对真实的欲望。谢谢
en:Let me summarize it, for the business people in the audience,with three rules, three basic rules.One, don&#39;t say you&#39;re authenticunless you really are authentic.Two, it&#39;s easier to be authenticif you don&#39;t say you&#39;re authentic.And three, if you say you&#39;re authentic,you better be authentic.And then for the consumers, for everyone else in the audience,let me simply summarize it by saying, increasingly,what we — what will make us happy,is spending our time and our moneysatisfying the desire for authenticity.Thank you.
