时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在从事经济和贸易的工作多年以后，四年前，我开始投身于人类脆弱领域的前线。我发现在我身处的地方，人们每天为生存而斗争但仍然不能吃上一顿饭。这个红色的杯子来自卢旺达，来自一名叫Fabian的孩子。我到哪里都带着它真的，把它作为一个挑战以及希望的象征。因为每天这样一杯的粮食完全地改变着Fabian的生活。但今天我要讲述的是这样一个事实：今天早上地球上大约有10亿人也就是七份之一的人口醒来却不知道怎样能填满这样一个杯子。七份之一的人口。
en:Well after many years working in trade and economics,four years ago,I found myself working on the front linesof human vulnerability.And I found myself in the placeswhere people are fighting every day to surviveand can&#39;t even obtain a meal.This red cup comes from Rwandafrom a child named Fabian.And I carry this aroundas a symbol, really, of the challengeand also the hope.Because one cup of food a daychanges Fabian&#39;s life completely.But what I&#39;d like to talk about todayis the fact that this morning,about a billion people on Earth —or one out of every seven —woke up and didn&#39;t even knowhow to fill this cup.One out of every seven people.
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:首先，我会问你们为什么应该关心这个问题？为什么我们应该关心？对于大部分人来说，当他们想到饥饿，他们不用回想到很久远的家族历史来追忆一段捱饿的经历—这段经历也许就发生在他们自身，他们的父母，或是他们祖父母的一生中。我很少能从观众中找到有人能追溯到很久远却没有这样的经历。有些人是出于同情心，觉得这也许是人类基本的行为。就像甘地说的，“对于一个饥饿的人来说，一块面包就像是上帝的面孔。”其他人担心世界的和平，安全与稳定。当粮食价格在一夜之间番倍，一场在我看来是无声的饥饿海啸席卷全球，随之我们看到2008年的粮食暴动。饥饿的不定影响在人类史上众所周知。而人类文明其中最基本的行为之一是保障人们能够获得足够的食物。
en:First, I&#39;ll ask you: Why should you care?Why should we care?For most people,if they think about hunger,they don&#39;t have to go far back on their own family history —maybe in their own lives, or their parents&#39; lives,or their grandparents&#39; lives —to remember an experience of hunger.I rarely find an audiencewhere people can go back very far without that experience.Some are driven by compassion,feel it&#39;s perhapsone of the fundamental acts of humanity.As Gandhi said,&quot;To a hungry man, a piece of bread is the face of God.&quot;Others worry about peace and security,stability in the world.We saw the food riots in 2008,after what I call the silent tsunami of hungerswept the globe when food prices doubled overnight.The destabilizing effects of hungerare known throughout human history.One of the most fundamental acts of civilizationis to ensure people can get enough food.
时间： 2:03
zh-cn:有些人会想起马尔萨斯的噩梦。我们能够喂饱那将要在几十年后就达到九十亿的人口吗？饥饿，这不是一个可以谈判的话题。人们需要吃上饭。而那将会是很多的人。这是贯穿于整个价值链的工作和机遇。但我其实是通过另一个方式得到这个结论的。这是我和我三个孩子的照片。1987年，我刚成为我第一个孩子的母亲。就在我正抱着她喂哺她的时候，一个跟这个画面十分相似的画面出现在电视上。而这仅仅是发生在埃塞俄比亚的又一场饥荒。在那之前的一两年前的饥荒已带走了超过百万人的生命。但那给我带来的震撼却没有我看到那张照片时强烈，因为照片上是一位母亲想要给她的孩子喂奶，但她却没有奶去喂。而那个孩子的哭声真正的穿透了作为母亲的我。我想，没有任何东西比一个孩子哭泣却换不来食物更令人无法释怀的了—这是每一个人最基本的期望。在那一时刻，我心中充满了这样的挑战和愤怒 –我们其实知道怎样去解决这个问题。
en:Others think about Malthusian nightmares.Will we be able to feed a populationthat will be nine billion in just a few decades?This is not a negotiable thing, hunger.People have to eat.There&#39;s going to be a lot of people.This is jobs and opportunity all the way up and down the value chain.But I actually came to this issuein a different way.This is a picture of me and my three children.In 1987, I was a new motherwith my first childand was holding her and feeding herwhen an image very similar to thiscame on the television.And this was yet another famine in Ethiopia.One two years earlierhad killed more than a million people.But it never struck me as it did that moment,because on that imagewas a woman trying to nurse her baby,and she had no milk to nurse.And the baby&#39;s cry really penetrated me,as a mother.And I thought, there&#39;s nothing more hauntingthan the cry of a childthat cannot be returned with food —the most fundamental expectation of every human being.And it was at that momentthat I just was filledwith the challenge and the outragethat actually we know how to fix this problem.
时间： 3:30
zh-cn:这不是那些稀有罕见的不可救药的疾病。我们知道怎样解决饥饿问题。一百年前，我们不知道。现在我们实际上具备相应的科技和系统。而令我惊讶的是，这个问题还没有被解决。这些照片与历史上的今天格格不入。你们猜猜看？这是上周在肯尼亚北部。又一次的，大规模的九百万以上的人们面临着饥饿，不知道能不能熬到明天。事实上，我们知道每隔10秒就有一个孩子死于饥饿。这要高于爱滋病，疟疾和肺结核加在一起。而我们知道这不仅是粮食生产的问题。
en:This isn&#39;t one of those rare diseasesthat we don&#39;t have the solution for.We know how to fix hunger.A hundred years ago, we didn&#39;t.We actually have the technology and systems.And I was just struckthat this is out of place.At our time in history, these images are out of place.Well guess what?This is last week in northern Kenya.Yet again,the face of starvationat large scalewith more than nine million peoplewondering if they can make it to the next day.In fact,what we know nowis that every 10 secondswe lose a child to hunger.This is morethan HIV/AIDS,malaria and tuberculosis combined.And we know that the issueis not just production of food.
时间： 4:28
zh-cn:我生命中的其中一位导师是诺曼·布劳格Norman Borlaug,也是我的英雄。但今天我要讲的是获得粮食的途径。因为在今年，去年以及2008年粮食危机中，地球上有足够的粮食来供应2700千焦卡路里给每一个人。那么为什么我们还有十亿人口得不到粮食供应呢？我还想谈一下所谓的知识的新重担。2008年，Lancet收集所有的研究，举出有说服力的证据来说明以下事实。如果一个小孩在头一千天里，也就是从怀孕到两岁，没有得到足够的营养，这样造成的伤害是不可逆转的。他们的脑部以及身体发育会受到阻碍。在这里你们可以看到两个小孩的脑扫描。其中一小孩有足够的营养，另一小孩被忽视及极度缺乏营养。我们可以看到这些小孩的脑容量能比其他小孩少百分之四十。在这一边你们可以看到脑部的神经元和染色体不能成形。我们现在知道这对经济有极大的影响。这我会在后面讲述。这些小孩一生的潜在收入，由于头几年生长受到阻碍，也被减少一半。
en:One of my mentors in lifewas Norman Borlaug, my hero.But today I&#39;m going to talk about access to food,because actually this year and last yearand during the 2008 food crisis,there was enough food on Earthfor everyone to have 2,700 kilocalories.So why is itthat we have a billion peoplewho can&#39;t find food?And I also want to talk aboutwhat I call our new burden of knowledge.In 2008,Lancet compiled all the researchand put forward the compelling evidencethat if a child in its first thousand days —from conception to two years old —does not have adequate nutrition,the damage is irreversible.Their brains and bodies will be stunted.And here you see a brain scan of two children —one who had adequate nutrition,another, neglectedand who was deeply malnourished.And we can see brain volumesup to 40 percent lessin these children.And in this slideyou see the neurons and the synapses of the braindon&#39;t form.And what we know now is this has huge impact on economies,which I&#39;ll talk about later.But also the earning potential of these childrenis cut in half in their lifetimedue to the stuntingthat happens in early years.
时间： 5:57
zh-cn:所以这知识的重担激励着我。因为实际上我们知道怎样去简单的解决这个问题。但在很多地方，由于这一原因，有三分之一的儿童在满三岁时就已经面临着充满艰辛的生活。我想讲一下我在饥饿的前线所看到的事情，和在转移我经济和贸易领域的知识以及私营企业的经验的过程中学到的东西。我想讲一下知识缺失在哪一环节。
en:So this burden of knowledge drives me.Because actually we know how to fix itvery simply.And yet, in many places,a third of the children,by the time they&#39;re threealready are facing a life of hardshipdue to this.I&#39;d like to talk aboutsome of the things I&#39;ve seen on the front lines of hunger,some of the things I&#39;ve learnedin bringing my economic and trade knowledgeand my experience in the private sector.I&#39;d like to talk about where the gap of knowledge is.
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:首先，我想讲一下地球上最原始的获得营养的方式，母乳喂养。你也许会惊讶的发现，如果一个婴儿在出生后的头六个月内得到母乳喂养，那么每过22秒我们就可以挽回一个生命。但比如说在尼日尔，低于百分之七的婴儿在出生后头六个月内单单接受母乳哺育。在毛里塔尼亚，这一数据低于百分之三。这是知识可以改变的东西。这一条信息，这一个词，可以理解为非老一套的做事方式；这是一个拯救你孩子生命的非常聪明的办法。所以今天我们不光注重于粮食的分发，也注重在保证母亲们有足够的营养补给，以及教育她们关于母乳哺育的知识。
en:Well first, I&#39;d like to talk about the oldest nutritional method on Earth,breastfeeding.You may be surprised to knowthat a child could be saved every 22 secondsif there was breastfeeding in the first six months of life.But in Niger, for example,less than seven percent of the childrenare breastfedfor the first six months of life, exclusively.In Mauritania, less than three percent.This is something that can be transformed with knowledge.This message, this word, can come outthat this is not an old-fashioned way of doing business;it&#39;s a brilliant wayof saving your child&#39;s life.And so today we focus on not just passing out food,but making sure the mothers have enough enrichment,and teaching them about breastfeeding.
时间： 7:25
zh-cn:第二个我要讲的话题是，如果你正住在某个边远的村庄，你的孩子是跛的，而你们又被困于一场旱灾或水灾，或者是你所在的条件不能给你提供营养足够多样化的饮食，你会怎么办？你认为你能去商店里像我们平常那样买各种补充能量的食物以及选合适的来补给？我发现在饥饿第一线的父母们十分清楚他们的孩子不能以此支撑下去。我会去那些商店，如果有商店的话，或者去庄稼地里看他们能找到什么，但他们什么营养品都找不到。即使他们知道他们需要什么，但那些东西却不可能得到。
en:The second thing I&#39;d like to talk about:If you were living in a remote village somewhere,your child was limp,and you were in a drought, or you were in floods,or you were in a situation where there wasn&#39;t adequate diversity of diet,what would you do?Do you think you could go to the storeand get a choice of power bars, like we can,and pick the right one to match?Well I find parents out on the front linesvery aware their children are going down for the count.And I go to those shops, if there are any,or out to the fields to see what they can get,and they cannot obtain the nutrition.Even if they know what they need to do, it&#39;s not available.
时间： 8:04
zh-cn:我对这个感到十分兴奋，因为我们正着手的其中一个项目是转变在食品工业十分可行的科技，将其运用到传统的粮食作物。这是完全根据脑部所需配制，用鹰嘴豆，烘干牛奶和一系列维他命制成的。这我所指的，人类的食粮，花费我们17美分来制造。我们同印度和巴基斯坦的食品科技人员合作制成这个—实际上他们大概只有三个人。但这改变着百分之九十九的收到这个的孩子。只要这样一包，每天17美分，他们的营养不良问题就被解决了。所以我深信，如果我们能分享在富有国家随处可见的科技用来转变粮食科技。而且这不受气候影响。不需要冷藏，不需要经常稀缺的水。在我看来，这类科技有改变第一线面临饥饿，营养以及营养不足的潜能。
en:And I&#39;m very excited about this,because one thing we&#39;re working onis transforming the technologiesthat are very availablein the food industryto be available for traditional crops.And this is made with chickpeas, dried milkand a host of vitamins,matched to exactly what the brain needs.It costs 17 cents for us to produce thisas, what I call, food for humanity.We did this with food technologistsin India and Pakistan —really about three of them.But this is transforming99 percent of the kids who get this.One package, 17 cents a day —their malnutrition is overcome.So I am convincedthat if we can unlock the technologiesthat are commonplace in the richer worldto be able to transform foods.And this is climate-proof.It doesn&#39;t need to be refrigerated, it doesn&#39;t need water,which is often lacking.And these types of technologies,I see, have the potentialto transform the face of hunger and nutrition, malnutritionout on the front lines.
时间： 9:14
zh-cn:下一个我要讲的话题是学校供膳。世界上百分之八十的人口没有粮食安全网。当灾难袭来，比如说经济崩溃，人们失去工作，遭遇洪水，战争，冲突，政府治理不力，所有的这些，人们没有任何保障。而通常教堂，寺庙和其他机构没有资源去提供这一安全网。通过和世界银行合作我们发现，穷人的安全网以及最有效的投资，是学校供膳。如果你用当地小规模农民生产的作物来装满这个杯子，那么你就已经起到了改变的作用。世界上很多孩子不能上学因为他们要去乞讨和寻食。但是有了粮食，起到的作用是改革性的。改变一个孩子的命运花费不到25美分一天。
en:The next thing I want to talk about is school feeding.Eighty percent of the people in the worldhave no food safety net.When disaster strikes —the economy gets blown, people lose a job,floods, war, conflict,bad governance, all of those things —there is nothing to fall back on.And usually the institutions —churches, temples, other things —do not have the resourcesto provide a safety net.What we have found working with the World Bankis that the poor man&#39;s safety net,the best investment, is school feeding.And if you fill the cupwith local agriculture from small farmers,you have a transformative effect.Many kids in the world can&#39;t go to schoolbecause they have to go beg and find a meal.But when that food is there,it&#39;s transformative.It costs less than 25 cents a day to change a kid&#39;s life.
时间：10:05
zh-cn:但最惊人的是这在女孩身上起到的作用。在女孩不去上学的国家，如果你为上学的女孩提供一顿饭，入学率就达到男女各半。我们看到女生入学率的变化。而这是不可争议的，因为这是动力。那些家庭需要帮助。我们还发现如果我们留住这些女孩更久一些，她们会留在学校直到16岁，并且只要学校能提供食物，她们就不会去嫁人。或者是如果她们可以在周末获得一份额外的食物配给，这大概花费50美分，她们会留在学校，将来生下一个更健康的小孩，因为营养不良能传给下一代。
en:But what is most amazing is the effect on girls.In countries where girls don&#39;t go to schooland you offer a meal to girls in school,we see enrollment ratesabout 50 percent girls and boys.We see a transformation in attendance by girls.And there was no argument,because it&#39;s incentive.Families need the help.And we find that if we keep girls in school later,they&#39;ll stay in school until they&#39;re 16,and won&#39;t get married if there&#39;s food in school.Or if they get an extra ration of foodat the end of the week —it costs about 50 cents —will keep a girl in school,and they&#39;ll give birth to a healthier child,because the malnutrition is sentgeneration to generation.
时间：10:51
zh-cn:我们知道饥饿的循环有起有落。我们是知道这个的。今天的非洲之角，我们之前已经经历过饥荒。那么这是一个不可救药的循环吗？绝对不是。我想讲一下我所谓的希望之粮仓。这是喀麦隆，北部的喀麦隆，饥饿的潮起潮落几十年每年如是。每年当人们在欠收季节忍饥捱饿时，粮食援助随之而来。两年之前我们决定要改革对抗饥饿的模式。我们并不分发粮食，而是将粮食放入粮食银行。我们说，在欠收季节里把粮食取出来，你们来管理。这些粮仓由那些村庄来管理。在收获季节把粮食存回银行获得利息，粮食利息。这样一来收入百分之五，百分之十的额外的粮食。在过去的两年，500个这样的村庄再没有要求粮食救济，他们已经可以自给自足。而这些粮食银行正在扩大。村里的人们正为他们的孩子设立学校供膳项目。但在之前，他们从来没有能力或是资源来建立甚至是基本的基础设施。我最喜欢这一来自农村阶层的主意：用三把钥匙来打开粮仓。在那里粮食就是金子。而简单的主意可以改变不光是小地区，而且是世界广泛地区的面貌。
en:We know that there&#39;s boom and bust cycles of hunger.We know this.Right now on the Horn of Africa, we&#39;ve been through this before.So is this a hopeless cause?Absolutely not.I&#39;d like to talk about what I call our warehouses for hope.Cameroon, northern Cameroon, boom and bust cycles of hungerevery year for decades.Food aid coming in every yearwhen people are starving during the lean seasons.Well two years ago,we decided, let&#39;s transform the model of fighting hunger,and instead of giving out the food aid, we put it into food banks.And we said, listen,during the lean season, take the food out.You manage, the village manages these warehouses.And during harvest, put it back with interest,food interest.So add in five percent, 10 percent more food.For the past two years,500 of these villages where these arehave not needed any food aid — they&#39;re self-sufficient.And the food banks are growing.And they&#39;re starting school feeding programs for their childrenby the people in the village.But they&#39;ve never had the abilityto build even the basic infrastructureor the resources.I love this idea that came from the village level:three keys to unlock that warehouse.Food is gold there.And simple ideas can transform the face,not of small areas,of big areas of the world.
时间：12:16
zh-cn:我想讲一下所谓的数码粮食。在经常发生饥荒的地区，科技正改变着粮食稀缺的状况。Amartya Sen获得诺贝尔奖时说到，“你们猜猜看？在有粮食的情况下，因为人们没有购买能力，饥荒仍旧发生。”我们在2008年的确就看到了这一幕。我们现在看到，在非洲之角的某些地区粮食价格在过去一年上涨百分之二百四十。粮食可以在那里存在但人们却买不起。
en:I&#39;d like to talk about what I call digital food.Technology is transformingthe face of food vulnerabilityin places where you see classic famine.Amartya Sen won his Nobel Prizefor saying, &quot;Guess what, famines happen in the presence of foodbecause people have no ability to buy it.&quot;We certainly saw that in 2008.We&#39;re seeing that now in the Horn of Africawhere food prices are up 240 percent in some areasover last year.Food can be there and people can&#39;t buy it.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:在这张照片里，我在希布伦的一个小商店里。我们并不给这家商店带来食物，而是提供数码食物，一张卡。它上面用阿拉伯文写着“祝你胃口好”。妇女们可以进去刷卡，购买九样食品。这些食品必须是有营养的，并产于当地。仅在过去一年里，奶品行业—而这张卡被用于购买牛奶，奶酪，鸡蛋和鹰嘴豆泥奶品行业增长了百分之三十。店主们雇佣着越来越多的帮手。这是一个推动着粮食经济发展的互赢局面。我们现在通过手机来递送食物到超过三十个国家，改变着某些国家难民的状况以及其他方面。
en:Well this picture — I was in Hebron in a small shop, this shop,where instead of bringing in food,we provide digital food, a card.It says &quot;bon appetit&quot; in Arabic.And the women can go in and swipeand get nine food items.They have to be nutritious,and they have to be locally produced.And what&#39;s happened in the past year aloneis the dairy industry —where this card&#39;s used for milk and yogurtand eggs and hummus —the dairy industry has gone up 30 percent.The shopkeepers are hiring more people.It is a win-win-win situationthat starts the food economy moving.We now deliver food in over 30 countriesover cell phones,transforming even the presence of refugees in countries,and other ways.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:也许最令我兴奋的是比尔.·盖茨，霍华德·巴菲特Howard Buffett和其他人都广泛支持的一个主意。这个主意是来问这样一个问题：饥饿的受害者中大部分是不能靠生产足够粮食或是出卖粮食来维持家里生计的小规模农民—如果我们不把他们看成是受害者，而是解决问题的方法，对抗饥饿的价值链呢？如果我们能给那些不能销售任何粮食的非洲妇女们提供一个环境—她们现在所在的环境里没有公路，没有粮仓，甚至收集粮食的柏油帆布—使她们能在其他地方为她们忍饥捱饿的孩子提供粮食呢？今天，“为发展而购买”项目在二十一个国家进行着，你们猜猜看？在所有的案例中，当我们给予贫困家庭一个有保障的市场—比如说，“我们要买三百公制吨农产品。我们会购买。我们会保证妥善保存这些产品。”这些产品生产量会提高二，三，四倍他们意识到，因为这是他们生命中第一有保障的机会。我们看到人们改变了他们的生活。今天，粮食救济，我们的粮食救济是极大的引擎百分之八十的粮食救济流向发展中国家。全面的改变能真正的改变那些需要粮食的生命。
en:Perhaps most exciting to meis an idea that Bill Gates, Howard Buffett and othershave supported boldly,which is to ask the question:What if, instead of looking at the hungry as victims —and most of them are small farmerswho cannot raise enough food or sell foodto even support their own families —what if we view them as the solution,as the value chain to fight hunger?What if from the women in Africawho cannot sell any food —there&#39;s no roads, there&#39;s no warehouses,there&#39;s not even a tarp to pick the food up with —what if we give the enabling environmentfor them to provide the foodto feed the hungry children elsewhere?And Purchasing for Progress today is in 21 countries.And guess what?In virtually every case,when poor farmers are given a guaranteed market —if you say, &quot;We will buy 300 metric tons of this.We&#39;ll pick it up. We&#39;ll make sure it&#39;s stored properly.&quot; —their yields have gone up two-, three-, fourfoldand they figure it out,because it&#39;s the first guaranteed opportunity they&#39;ve had in their life.And we&#39;re seeing people transform their lives.Today, food aid, our food aid —huge engine —80 percent of it is bought in the developing world.Total transformationthat can actually transform the very lives that need the food.
时间：15:04
zh-cn:你会问，这些能够大规模的实施吗？这些都是很好的主意，农村级的主意。我想讲一下巴西，因为在过去的几年里，当我读到巴西现在对抗饥饿的进展比地球上所有的国家都快时，我有了前往巴西的旅途。我发现，他们并不将金钱投入到粮食补贴或是其他补贴上，而是投入到一个学校供膳项目上。并且要求三分之一的粮食来自最小规模的，没有盼头的农民。在总统卢拉Lula宣布他的目标是要保证人人都能吃上一日三餐后，他们开始大规模的实施这一项目。这一零饥饿项目花费百分之五的国民生产总值，将百万人从饥饿和贫困中解救出来。这一项目正改变着巴西贫困的面貌，并在大规模的实施着，创造着机会。我到过那里，见过那些小规模农民在凭着这一项目所创造的机会和平台建立着他们的生计。
en:Now you&#39;d ask, can this be done at scale?These are great ideas, village-level ideas.Well I&#39;d like to talk about Brazil,because I&#39;ve taken a journey to Brazil over the past couple of years,when I read that Brazil was defeating hungerfaster than any nation on Earth right now.And what I&#39;ve found is,rather than investing their money in food subsidiesand other things,they invested in a school feeding program.And they require that a third of that foodcome from the smallest farmers who would have no opportunity.And they&#39;re doing this at huge scaleafter President Lula declared his goalof ensuring everyone had three meals a day.And this zero hunger programcosts .5 percent of GDPand has lifted many millions of peopleout of hunger and poverty.It is transforming the face of hunger in Brazil,and it&#39;s at scale, and it&#39;s creating opportunities.I&#39;ve gone out there; I&#39;ve met with the small farmerswho have built their livelihoodson the opportunity and platformprovided by this.
时间：16:10
zh-cn:现在如果我们从经济紧要性来看，这就不仅仅是关乎同情心了。实际上研究表明，营养不良和饥饿的社会成本，也说是社会所要承受的担子—每年平均来说相当于国民生产总值的百分之六，在一些国家甚至达到每年百分之十一。如果你按营养不良问题最严重的三十六个国家来算，那相当于每年从生产力中流失二千六百亿元。世界银行估计，解决这些国家的营养不良问题需要大概一百亿元，一百零三亿元。你来做一下成本收益分析。我的梦想是把这个问题，不光从同情心的角度出发，呈现给各国财务官员来说明我们不能不投入资源，来保障全人类都能获得充足，可支付得起的营养补给。
en:Now if we look at the economic imperative here,this isn&#39;t just about compassion.The fact is studies showthat the cost of malnutrition and hunger —the cost to society,the burden it has to bear —is on average six percent,and in some countries up to 11 percent,of GDP a year.And if you look at the 36 countrieswith the highest burden of malnutrition,that&#39;s 260 billion lost from a productive economyevery year.Well, the World Bank estimatesit would take about 10 billion dollars —10.3 —to address malnutrition in those countries.You look at the cost-benefit analysis,and my dream is to take this issue,not just from the compassion argument,but to the finance ministers of the world,and say we cannot affordto not investin the access to adequate, affordable nutritionfor all of humanity.
时间：17:09
zh-cn:我发现不可思议的是，没有一位领导者的决心，任何事情都不能产生大规模的改变。当一位领导者说，“这不能在我管治下发生”，所有东西都开始改变。这世界能变化孕育环境和机会去实现这个。而事实上十分重要的是，法国已将粮食投入到二十国峰会中心议题。因为粮食问题不能靠一两个人，一两个国家解决。我们必须联合起来。我们看到非洲国家正联合起来。WFP世界粮食计划署已经可以撤出三十个国家，三十个国家，因为他们已经改变了他们国家饥饿的面貌。
en:The amazing thing I&#39;ve foundis nothing can change on a big scalewithout the determination of a leader.When a leader says, &quot;Not under my watch,&quot;everything begins to change.And the world can come inwith enabling environments and opportunities to do this.And the fact that Francehas put food at the center of the G20is really important.Because food is one issuethat cannot be solved person by person, nation by nation.We have to stand together.And we&#39;re seeing nations in Africa.WFP&#39;s been able to leave 30 nationsbecause they have transformedthe face of hunger in their nations.
时间：17:49
zh-cn:我想在这里提出一个挑战。我相信我们现正处于人类历史的这样一个时刻，我们不可以接受孩子们醒来却不知道在哪里能找到可以装满一个杯子的食物。不仅如此，改变饥饿是一个机会。我们要改变我们的思维方式。我感到十分荣幸能在这里同世界上最出色的创新者和思想家在一起。我希望你们与全人类一起在沙子上划一道线并说：“不再。我们不再接受这一现状。”我们还希望能够告诉我们的下一代，历史上曾经有过一个糟糕的年代，三分之一的儿童因饥饿而全身心发育不良。但那个年代已经不复存在。
en:What I would like to offer here is a challenge.I believe we&#39;re living at a time in human historywhere it&#39;s just simply unacceptablethat children wake upand don&#39;t know where to find a cup of food.Not only that,transforming hungeris an opportunity,but I think we have to change our mindsets.I am so honored to be herewith some of the world&#39;s top innovators and thinkers.And I would like you to join with all of humanityto draw a line in the sandand say, &quot;No more.No more are we going to accept this.&quot;And we want to tell our grandchildrenthat there was a terrible time in historywhere up to a third of the childrenhad brains and bodies that were stunted,but that exists no more.
时间：18:39
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：18:41
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
