时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我在朝鲜出生长大。虽然我的家庭一直在贫困中挣扎但我仍然备受关爱,因为我是家中的独子也是两个孩子中最小的。
en:I was born and raised in North Korea.Although my family constantly struggled against poverty,I was always loved and cared for first,because I was the only sonand the youngest of two in the family.
时间： 0:29
zh-cn:但在94年，大饥荒开始了那时我四岁我姊姊和我四出寻找柴火从凌晨五点开始一直到午夜才回家。我为了寻找食物在路上游荡我曾看见一个绑在母亲背上的婴儿背在母亲的背上吃土豆片我当时想把土豆片从他手里偷过来
en:But then the great famine began in 1994.I was four years old.My sister and I would go searching for firewoodstarting at 5 in the morningand come back after midnight.I would wander the streets searching for food,and I remember seeing a small childtied to a mother&#39;s back eating chips,and wanting to steal them from him.
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:饥饿让人感到羞耻丶感到绝望对一个饥饿的孩子来说，政治和自由是无法想象的。在我九岁的生日那天，我的父母没法给我任何吃的。但是即使那时小，我也能感觉到父母沉重的心。
en:Hunger is humiliation. Hunger is hopelessness.For a hungry child, politics and freedomare not even thought of.On my ninth birthday, my parentscouldn&#39;t give me any food to eat.But even as a child, I could feel the heavinessin their hearts.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:一百多万朝鲜人在那个时期饿死，然后在2003年，当我13岁的时候，我的父亲成为了他们之一。我目睹父亲日渐衰弱直至死亡。同年，我的母亲突然有一天消失了，然后我的姐姐告诉我母亲是去中国打工挣钱了，但是母亲会很快带回来钱和食物。由于我们从未分开过，而且我以为我们会一直在一起，在她离开时，我都没抱她一下。那是我这辈子犯下的最大的错误。然而，我当时不知道那将是一个永远的分离。从那以来，我一直没有见过我的母亲和姐姐。
en:Over a million North Koreans died of starvation in that time,and in 2003, when I was 13 years old,my father became one of them.I saw my father wither away and die.In the same year, my mother disappeared one day,and then my sister told methat she was going to China to earn money,but that she would return with money and food soon.Since we had never been separated,and I thought we would be together forever,I didn&#39;t even give her a hug when she left.It was the biggest mistake I have ever made in my life.But again, I didn&#39;t knowit was going to be a long goodbye.I have not seen my mom or my sister since then.
时间： 2:12
zh-cn:突然间，我成了一个孤儿，无家可归。我每天的生活变得很难，但是目标却是很简单。就是在垃圾堆里找到一片满是灰的面包充饥。但那是不够生存的。我开始意识到，乞讨不会解决问题。所以我开始去黑市偷食品车。有时，我做小工来换粮食。有一次是冬天，我甚至在煤窑里工作了两个月，地下33米，全无任何保护每天工作16小时。我的做法并不罕见。许多其他孤儿也是在相似或是更糟糕的环境下生存下来的。
en:Suddenly, I became an orphan and homeless.My daily life became very hard,but very simple.My goal was to find a dusty piece of bread in the trash.But that is no way to survive.I started to realize, begging would not be the solution.So I started to steal from food carts in illegal markets.Sometimes, I found small jobsin exchange for food.Once, I even spent two months in the winterworking in a coal mine,33 meters underground without any protectionfor up to 16 hours a day.I was not uncommon.Many other orphans survived this way, or worse.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:当我因为太冷或者饿得疼痛时，我睡不着觉，那时我希望第二天早晨，我的姐姐会端着我最爱吃的食物回来把我叫醒。那个希望让我活下来。我不是说什么大的宏伟的希望。我是说那种可以让我相信在下一堆垃圾里可以找到面包的希望，即使有的时候真的找不到。但是如果我没有相信它，我就不会去尝试，那样的话，我就会死掉。希望让我活下来。每天，我都告诉自己，无论生活难到什么样子，我都要活下去。
en:When I could not fall asleep from bitter coldor hunger pains,I hoped that, the next morning,my sister would come back to wake me upwith my favorite food.That hope kept me alive.I don&#39;t mean big, grand hope.I mean the kind of hope that made me believethat the next trash can had bread,even though it usually didn&#39;t.But if I didn&#39;t believe it, I wouldn&#39;t even try,and then I would die.Hope kept me alive.Every day, I told myself,no matter how hard things got,still I must live.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:在等待我的姐姐回家的三年后，我决定去中国自己找我的姐姐。我发现这样的话我不会活太久。我知道这次旅行会十分冒险，但是不管做还是不做，我都是在冒生命的险。我会像父亲一样饿死在朝鲜，或者至少通过逃亡到中国，我可以过得更好些。
en:After three years of waiting for my sister&#39;s return,I decided to go to China to look for her myself.I realizedI couldn&#39;t survive much longer this way.I knew the journey would be risky,but I would be risking my life either way.I could die of starvation like my father in North Korea,or at least I could try for a better lifeby escaping to China.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:我之前听说许多试图跨界去中国的人选择夜间行动以免被发现。朝鲜边界警卫经常射杀那些未经允许而试图逃跑的人中国士兵会逮捕并遣返朝鲜人，被遣送回国后他们将受到严厉的惩罚。我决定在白天行动，其一是因为我还是个小孩，害怕黑夜，其二是因为我知道我已经是在冒险，那既然不是很多人白天出界，我认为我也许能过去而且不被发现。
en:I had learned that many people tried to crossthe border to China in the nighttime to avoid being seen.North Korean border guards often shoot and kill peopletrying to cross the border without permission.Chinese soldiers will catchand send back North Koreans,where they face severe punishment.I decided to cross during the day,first because I was still a kid and scared of the dark,second because I knew I was already taking a risk,and since not many people tried to cross during the day,I thought I might be able to crosswithout being seen by anyone.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:2006年2月15日我成功地到达了中国。我那时16岁。我以为在中国生活会容易些，因为那里有更多食物。我以为更多的人会帮助我。但是那比生活在朝鲜还要难，因为我没有自由。我总是担心被抓到被遣送回国。
en:I made it to China on February 15, 2006.I was 16 years old.I thought things in China would be easier,since there was more food.I thought more people would help me.But it was harder than living in North Korea,because I was not free.I was always worried about being caughtand sent back.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:幸运的是，几个月后，我遇到一个人他掌管一个专门照顾朝鲜人的地下组织，他允许我住在那里我在许多年里头一次有规律的饮食。同年，一个积极分子帮我逃出了中国以难民的身份到了美国。
en:By a miracle, some months later,I met someone who was runningan underground shelter for North Koreans,and was allowed to live thereand eat regular meals for the first time in many years.Later that year, an activist helped me escape Chinaand go to the United States as a refugee.
时间： 6:03
zh-cn:我去美国时一句英语都不会说，但是我的社工告诉我我得去读高中。即使在朝鲜，我学习一直都不及格。（笑声）而且我连小学都没有读完。我记得我在学校每天至少打一次架。我对课本和图书馆毫无兴趣。我的父亲使劲浑身解数让我好好学习，但没有用。有一次，我的父亲对我放弃了。他说：”你不再是我的儿子了。“我那时只有11或12岁，但是那句话让我很心痛。但不管怎样，我学习的劲头一直到父亲去世时都没有改变。所以在美国，他们让我去读高中这件事有点荒唐。我连中学都没有读过。我决定去，只是因为他们让我去，也没反驳过什么。
en:I went to America without knowing a word of English,yet my social worker told me that I had to go to high school.Even in North Korea, I was an F student.(Laughter)And I barely finished elementary school.And I remember I fought in school more than once a day.Textbooks and the library were not my playground.My father tried very hard to motivate me into studying,but it didn&#39;t work.At one point, my father gave up on me.He said, &quot;You&#39;re not my son anymore.&quot;I was only 11 or 12, but it hurt me deeply.But nevertheless, my level of motivationstill didn&#39;t change before he died.So in America, it was kind of ridiculousthat they said I should go to high school.I didn&#39;t even go to middle school.I decided to go, just because they told me to,without trying much.
时间： 7:07
zh-cn:但是有一天，我回到家我的养母已经做好了鸡翅做晚饭。吃饭的时候，我想要再吃一个鸡翅，但是我发现再吃一个那别人就不够了，所以我就没吃。当我低头看我的盘子的时候，我看到了那最后一只鸡翅，我的养父已经把它给我了我当时好开心。我看着坐在身边的他。他只是很温暖地朝我看了一眼，并没有说话。突然我想起了我的生父。我的养父那一点爱让我想起了我的父亲，那个即使饿着，甚至饥寒交迫也愿意让给我食物的父亲。在美国我有这么多吃的我有点不习惯因为毕竟我的父亲死于饥荒。我那晚唯一的心愿就是为死去的父亲做一顿饭，而且那晚我还想用别方式给他带去荣耀我的答案就是向自己承诺我要好好学习接受美国最好的教育给父亲的牺牲带来荣誉。
en:But one day, I came home and my foster motherhad made chicken wings for dinner.And during dinner, I wanted to have one more wing,but I realized there were not enough for everyone,so I decided against it.When I looked down at my plate,I saw the last chicken wing, that my foster father had given me his.I was so happy.I looked at him sitting next to me.He just looked back at me very warmly,but said no words.Suddenly I remembered my biological father.My foster father&#39;s small act of lovereminded me of my father,who would love to share his food with mewhen he was hungry, even if he was starving.I felt so suffocated that I had so much food in America,yet my father died of starvation.My only wish that night was to cook a meal for him,and that night I also thought of what else I could doto honor him.And my answer was to promise to myselfthat I would study hard and get the best educationin America to honor his sacrifice.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:我开始认真学习，而且我人生中头一次，被授予了最佳学术奖，在高中的第一个学期上了院长的名单。
en:I took school seriously,and for the first time ever in my life,I received an academic award for excellence,and made dean&#39;s list from the first semester in high school.
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:（鼓掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:那只鸡翅改变了我的人生。（笑声）
en:That chicken wing changed my life.(Laughter)
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:希望是很私人的事情。希望是别人不能给你的。你不得不选择相信希望。你不得不自己努力获得。在朝鲜，我自己活了下来。希望把我带到美国。但是在美国，我不知道我应该做什么，因为突然间我有了如此无限量的自由。我的养父在那次晚餐时给了我方向，他鼓励我，并给了我在美国生活的目的。
en:Hope is personal. Hope is somethingthat no one can give to you.You have to choose to believe in hope.You have to make it yourself.In North Korea, I made it myself.Hope brought me to America.But in America, I didn&#39;t know what to do,because I had this overwhelming freedom.My foster father at that dinner gave me a direction,and he motivated me and gave me a purposeto live in America.
时间： 9:34
zh-cn:我今天来着不是靠自己来的。我有希望，但是希望本身并不够。一路上许多人帮助我到这里来。朝鲜人在为生存而奋战。他们不得不强迫自己去存活下来，有生存的希望，但是如果没有帮助那是无法实现的。
en:I did not come here by myself.I had hope, but hope by itself is not enough.Many people helped me along the way to get here.North Koreans are fighting hard to survive.They have to force themselves to survive,have hope to survive,but they cannot make it without help.
时间：10:00
zh-cn:这就是我给大家的信息。给自己希望，但还要互相帮助。生活可以难为每一个人，无论你住在哪。我的养父当时没想要改变我的人生。同样，你也可以通过一点小小的施爱改变某个人的一生。一片面包可以填饱肚子，拥有希望可以给你带来面包让你继续活下去。但是我信心十足地相信您的爱和帮助也可以拯救另一个约瑟（演讲人的姓名）的生命而且改变成千上万的约瑟那些仍有希望生存的约瑟。
en:This is my message to you.Have hope for yourself,but also help each other.Life can be hard for everyone, wherever you live.My foster father didn&#39;t intend to change my life.In the same way, you may also change someone&#39;s lifewith even the smallest act of love.A piece of bread can satisfy your hunger,and having the hope will bring you breadto keep you alive.But I confidently believe thatyour act of love and caringcan also save another Joseph&#39;s lifeand change thousands of other Josephswho are still having hope to survive.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：10:59
zh-cn:（鼓掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:35
zh-cn:Adiran Hong (主持人）：约瑟，谢谢你跟大家分享非常私人的而且特别的故事。我知道你一直没有见到你的姐姐，你说的，差不多有整十年了，而且也许赶巧她会正在观看这个节目，我们想给你一个机会向姐姐说几句。
en:Adrian Hong: Joseph, thank you for sharingthat very personal and special story with us.I know you haven&#39;t seen your sister for, you said,it was almost exactly a decade,and in the off chance that she may be able to see this,we wanted to give you an opportunityto send her a message.
时间：11:53
zh-cn:Joseph Kim （演讲者）: 用朝语吗？
en:Joseph Kim: In Korean?
时间：11:54
zh-cn:AH：你可以用英语，然后用朝语。
en:AH: You can do English, then Korean as well.
时间：11:57
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:01
zh-cn:JK：好的。我觉得用朝语的话我可能不会说很长因为一说眼泪就会哗哗地。
en:JK: Okay, I&#39;m not going to make it any longer in Koreanbecause I don&#39;t think I can make itwithout tearing up.
时间：12:10
zh-cn:努妠￼，已经有10年没有见到你了。我只是想说我想你，我爱你，求求你一定来我这，而且一定要活着。而且我 －哦，天呐。我仍然没有放弃看到你的希望。我会幸福地活着好好学习直到我看到你，而且我保证不会再哭。（笑声）是的，我只是期待再见到你，如果你找不到我，我会找你，我希望有一天会见到你。我可以跟我的妈妈也说一句话吗？
en:Nuna, it has been already 10 yearsthat I haven’t seen you.I just wanted to saythat I miss you, and I love you,and please come back to me and stay alive.And I — oh, gosh.I still haven&#39;t given up my hope to see you.I will live my life happilyand study harduntil I see you,and I promise I will not cry again.(Laughter)Yes, I&#39;m just looking forward to seeing you,and if you can&#39;t find me,I will also look for you,and I hope to see you one day.And can I also make a small message to my mom?
时间：13:14
zh-cn:AH：当然，说吧。
en:AH: Sure, please.
时间：13:16
zh-cn:JK：我们相处的时间不多，但是我知道你依然爱我。而且你可能依然在为我祈祷而且想念我。我只是想说谢谢你带我到这个世界里来。谢谢。
en:JK: I haven&#39;t spent much time with you,but I know that you still love me,and you probably still pray for meand think about me.I just wanted to say thank youfor letting me be in this world.Thank you.
时间：13:34
zh-cn:（鼓掌声）
en:(Applause)
