时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想了很久该用什么词作为今天的开场白，我决定来谈谈“哥伦比亚”。至于原因嘛，我不知道你们中有多少人去过哥伦比亚，哥伦比亚与巴西北部接壤，是个非常美丽的国家。那里生活着非凡的人民，像我还有其他人一样，（笑声）那里遍布着各种珍奇的动物和植被。那里有丰富的水资源，那里拥有成为完美之地的所有条件。
en:So, I thought a lot aboutthe first word I&#39;d say today,and I decided to say &quot;Colombia.&quot;And the reason, I don&#39;t knowhow many of you have visited Colombia,but Colombia is just northof the border with Brazil.It&#39;s a beautiful countrywith extraordinary people,like me and others — (Laughter) —and it&#39;s populatedwith incredible fauna, flora.It&#39;s got water; it&#39;s got everythingto be the perfect place.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:但也存在一些问题。你也许听说过其中一些。我们有着世界上历史最悠久的游击队，持续活跃已超过50年，这意味着在我迄今为止的人生中，这个国家从未享受过一天的和平。这支游击队主体上隶属于FARC，即“哥伦比亚革命武装军”，他们通过绑架和敲诈勒索来筹募战争经费，毒品交易和非法采矿也是他们牟利的手段。恐怖主义和随处爆炸的炸弹也存在于日常生活当中。情况不容乐观，其实非常糟糕。让我们来看看在过去50年来战争的人道成本，超过570万人流离失所，这是世界上规模最大的流离人口数字之一。武装冲突还让22万人失去了生命，像又一次经历了玻利瓦尔革命战争，造成了大量不必要的死亡。
en:But we have a few problems.You may have heard of some of them.We have the oldeststanding guerrilla in the world.It&#39;s been around for over 50 years,which means that in my lifetime,I have never lived one day of peace in my country.This guerrilla — and the main groupis the FARC guerrillas,Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia —they have financed their warby kidnapping, by extortion,by getting into the drug trade,by illegal mining.There has been terrorism.There have been random bombs.So it&#39;s not good.It&#39;s not really good.And if you look at the human costof this war over 50 years,we have had more than5.7 million displaced population.It&#39;s one of the biggest displacedpopulations in the world,and this conflict has costover 220,000 lives.So it&#39;s a little bit likethe Bolívar wars again.It&#39;s a lot of people whohave died unnecessarily.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:目前我们正处于和平谈判的进程中，我们一直竭力于和平地解决存在的问题，作为努力的一部分，我们决定从侧面尝试一些完全不同的策略：圣诞灯饰。
en:We are now in the middle of peace talks,and we&#39;ve been trying to helpresolve this problem peacefully,and as part of that,we decided to try somethingcompletely lateral and different:Christmas lights.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:圣诞灯饰啊，你心里一定在嘀咕，这家伙到底要说什么？我要说的是，我们种在丛林中九条战略要道上的参天大树，上面挂满了圣诞灯饰。这些大树帮我们遣散了331名游击队员，大约占当时游击队员人数的5%。这些树在夜晚被点亮，旁边还有一个标语牌，上面写着：“如果圣诞降临丛林，你就能够回家。退出吧，在圣诞节，一切皆有可能。”
en:So Christmas lights, and you&#39;re saying,what the hell is this guygoing to talk about?I am going to talk about gigantic treesthat we put in nine strategic pathways in the junglecovered with Christmas lights.These trees helped us demobilize 331 guerrillas,roughly five percentof the guerrilla force at the time.These trees were lit up at night,and they had a sign beside themthat said, &quot;If Christmas can cometo the jungle, you can come home.Demobilize.At Christmas, everything is possible.&quot;
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:我们怎么知道这些树起了作用呢？现在我们有331人的成果，其实还不错，但我们也知道，并没有太多的游击队员见过这些树，我们还知道，即便如此，还是有很多游击队员听说过这些树。我们能够得知这些，是因为我们在不断地与退伍的游击队员对话。
en:So how do we know these trees worked?Well, we got 331, which is okay,but we also know thatnot a lot of guerrillas saw them,but we know that a lot ofguerrillas heard about them,and we know thisbecause we are constantly talkingto demobilized guerrillas.
时间： 2:57
zh-cn:让我带你们回到开始弄这些树的四年之前。在这些树出现的四年前，政府联系到了我们，让我们帮忙设立一个沟通战略，让尽可能多更多的游击队员离开丛林。政府有相应的军事战略、法律战略、还有政治战略，但他们说“我们没有什么沟通战略，拥有沟通战略可能还不赖。”所以我们决定马上投入这件事，因为这是一次机会，去主动影响武装冲突的结果，运用我们所从事的工作，以及我们所拥有的工具。
en:So let me take you backfour years before the trees.Four years before the trees,we were approached by the governmentto help them come up witha communications strategyto get as many guerrillasas we could out of the jungle.The government had a military strategy,it had a legal strategy,it had a political strategy, but it said,&quot;We don&#39;t really havea communications strategy,and it probably would bea good thing to have,&quot;so we decided toimmediately jump into this,because it is an opportunityto affect the outcome of the conflictwith the things that we do,with the tools that we have.
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:而我们对情况的了解的并不是很多。在哥伦比亚，如果你住在城市里，你其实距离战争真正发生的地方很远，所以你并不会理解个中机要。我们向政府要求权限，能够尽可能地接触到那些退伍的游击队员。我们差不多与60人交谈过，才感觉完全理解了这个问题。我们谈到了他们加入游击队的缘由，离开游击队的原因，以及他们的梦想是什么，他们遇到了哪些挫折，从这些对谈中洞察到的深层次结论，引领了整个运动。这个结论就是：游击队员就是他们自己组织中的囚徒，与那些他们绑架的人质并无两样。
en:But we didn&#39;t know very much about it.We didn&#39;t understand in Colombia, if you live in the cities,you&#39;re very far away from where the war is actually happening,so you don&#39;t really understand it,and we asked the government to give us accessto as many demobilizedguerrillas as possible.And we talked to about 60 of thembefore we felt we fullyunderstood the problem.We talked about — they told us why they had joined the guerrillas,why the left the guerrillas,what their dreams were,what their frustrations were,and from those conversationscame the underlying insightthat has guided this whole campaign,which is that guerrillas are as muchprisoners of their organizationsas the people they hold hostage.
时间： 4:22
zh-cn:听到这些故事，我们一开始觉得很受触动、很吃惊，我们就想，也许跟游击队员最好的沟通方式就是让他们自己人之间进行对话，所以在第一年里，我们录下了上百个不同的故事，在广播和电视上播出，这样，丛林中的游击队员就能听到这些故事，他们的故事，或是和他们息息相关的故事，当他们听到这些故事，会决定退出。
en:And at the beginning, we wereso touched by these stories,we were so amazed by these stories,that we thought that maybe the best way to talk to the guerrillaswas to have them talk to themselves,so we recorded about a hundreddifferent stories during the first year,and we put them onthe radio and televisionso that the guerrillas in the junglecould hear stories, their stories,or stories similar to theirs,and when they heard them,they decided to go out.
时间： 4:50
zh-cn:我给你们讲一个例子。你看到的这个人是吉奥瓦尼•安德烈斯，照这张照片时，他25岁。他曾经当了七年的游击队员，最近刚刚退出。他的故事是这样的：他在17岁时应招进入游击队，过了一阵子，他的“连队”里来了一位美丽的女孩，他们相爱了。他们谈到自己的小家庭会是什么样子，他们的孩子会叫什么名字，他们离开游击队后会过上什么样的生活。然而，低级别的游击队员是严禁恋爱的，他们的恋情被发现后，俩人就被分开了。他被遣送到很远的地方，而她则被留了下来。她十分熟悉当地的地形，所以在她负责守夜的某个晚上，她逃脱了，到军队投诚。我们有幸与她对话，因她的故事而深受感动，我们为之做了一个广播节目，但我们未曾想到，在很多公里以北的远方，这个节目被他听到了。当他听到广播中她的声音时，他对自己说：“我究竟在干嘛？她有那样的勇气脱离困境，我也要做同样的事。于是他也逃了。他整整走了两天两夜，冒着生命危险终于逃脱了，只是想要去见她，这是他唯一的念头。故事的结局是，他们见面了。我知道你们想问他们有没有重聚，他们确实见到彼此了。她进游击队的时候15岁，逃脱的时候17岁，可以想见其中艰辛曲折，但他们最终还是见到了彼此。我不知道他们现在是不是还在一起，不过可以回去查查。（笑声）但我能告诉你们，我们的广播策略确实起效了。
en:I want to tell you one of these stories.This person you see here is Giovanni Andres.Giovanni Andres is 25when we took that picture.He had been seven years in the guerrilla,and he had demobilized very recently.His story is the following:He was recruited when he was 17,and sometime later,in his squadron, if you will,this beautiful girl was recruited,and they fell in love.Their conversations were aboutwhat their family was going to be like,what their kids&#39; names would be,how their life would bewhen they left the guerrilla.But it turns outthat love is very strictly forbiddenin the lower ranks of the guerrilla,so their romance was discoveredand they were separated.He was sent very far away,and she was left behind.She was very familiar with the territory,so one night, when she was on guard,she just left,and she went to the army, she demobilized,and she was one of the personsthat we had the fortune to talk to,and we were really touched by this story,so we made a radio spot,and it turns out, by chance,that far away, many, many kilometers north,he heard her on the radio,and when he heard her on the radio,he said, &quot;What am I doing here?She had the balls to get out.I need to do the same thing.&quot;And he did.He walked for two days and two nights,and he risked his life and he got out,and the only thinghe wanted was to see her.The only thing that wasin his mind was to see her.The story was, they did meet.I know you&#39;re wondering if they did meet.They did meet.She had been recruited when she was 15,and she left when she was 17,so there were a lotof other complications,but they did eventually meet.I don&#39;t know if they&#39;re together now,but I can find out. (Laughter)But what I can tell you is thatour radio strategy was working.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:不过问题在于，这个策略只在级别较低的游击队员中起效，对于指挥官就没什么效果，他们是更难被替代的人。因为招募队员容易，而指挥官只能内部培养。所以我们想，好吧，可以用同样的策略，让指挥官与指挥官对话。我们甚至让从前是游击队指挥官的人，坐上直升机，用麦克风喊话，告诉那些曾经和他们并肩作战的人们，”外面的生活更美好，“”我现在过得很好，”“这不值得“ 等等。不过，你们都能想象到，这个方法不太奏效。游击队可以说：“对呀，如果他不照做，可能会被（政府军）杀掉。”这样狡辩的确很容易，很快我们就只能无功而返，因为游击队开始到处宣传说所有这些招安的说辞都是被迫的，说话的人正处于危险之中。
en:The problem is that it was workingin the lower ranks of the guerrilla.It was not working with the commanders,the people that aremore difficult to replace,because you can easily recruitbut you can&#39;t get the older commanders.So we thought, well,we&#39;ll use the same strategy.We&#39;ll have commanderstalking to commanders.And we even went as faras asking ex-commanders of the guerrillato fly on helicopters with microphonestelling the people thatused to fight with them,&quot;There is a better life out there,&quot;&quot;I&#39;m doing good,&quot;&quot;This is not worth it,&quot; etc.But, as you can all imagine,it was very easy to counteract,because what wasthe guerrilla going to say?&quot;Yeah, right, if he doesn&#39;t do that,he&#39;s going to get killed.&quot;So it was easy, so we weresuddenly left with nothing,because the guerrillawere spreading the wordthat all of those things are donebecause if they don&#39;t do it, they&#39;re in danger.
时间： 7:59
zh-cn:我们团队里有个天才回来之后说：“知道我看出什么了吗？我发现圣诞节期间正是他们退出游击队的高潮，从这场战争开始的时候就一直如此。”这真是不可思议，这让我们认识到对话的另一方是“人”，而非“士兵”。我们要避免政府对军队、或是军队对军队这些形式的对话，我们要说的是普世价值，我们要说的是人性。圣诞树的点子就这样应运而生。这张照片上展示的是圣诞树的规划阶段，这个戴着三颗星的男人是胡安•马纽埃尔•瓦尔迪兹上尉。瓦尔迪兹上尉是第一个为我们提供直升机和其他支持的高级军官，立起了这些圣诞树。他在这次会议上说的话，我永远不会忘记。他说：“我之所以要这样做，是因为慷慨让我更强，让我的队伍更强。”每当我想起他都很感慨，因为他在后来的一次战斗中牺牲了，我们真的很想念他，但我想让你们都看看，他是多么的重要。第一批圣诞树的成功放置全要归功于他。
en:And somebody, somebrilliant person in our team,came back and said,&quot;You know what I noticed?I noticed that around Christmastime,there have been peaks of demobilizationsince this war has started.&quot;And that was incredible,because that led us to think that we needed to talk to the human beingand not to the soldier.We needed to step away from talkingfrom government to army,from army to army,and we needed to talkabout the universal values,and we needed to talk about humanity.And that was whenthe Christmas tree happened.This picture that I have here,you see this is the planningof the Christmas trees,and that man you see therewith the three stars,he&#39;s Captain Juan Manuel Valdez.Captain Valdez was the first high-ranking officialto give us the helicopters and the support we neededto put these Christmas trees up,and he said in that meetingsomething that I will never forget.He said, &quot;I want to do thisbecause being generous makes me stronger,makes my men feel stronger.&quot;And I get very emotionalwhen I remember himbecause he was killed later in combatand we really miss him,but I wanted you all to see him,because he was really, really important.He gave us all the supportto put up the first Christmas trees.
时间： 9:34
zh-cn:后来，那些在圣诞树亮灯期间逃出来的游击队员说：“太好了，那些圣诞树很酷，不过你们知道吗？我们已经不再在陆地上走动了，我们转移到河上行动了。”
en:What happened later is thatthe guerrillas who came outduring the Christmas tree operation and all of thatsaid, &quot;That&#39;s really good,Christmas trees are really cool,but you know what?We really don&#39;t walk anymore.We use rivers.&quot;
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:河流就像丛林中的高速路，我们了解到了这点，而且大多数的招募工作，都是在河边的村庄一带进行的。于是我们深入那些河边的村庄，对村民进行询问，他们中的一些人很可能就认识那些游击队员。我们问道：“你们有什么话要捎给游击队员吗？”我们搜集到六千多条讯息，一些是写着“出来吧”等字样的纸条，一些是玩具，一些是糖果，有些人甚至摘下身上的首饰、十字架和别的一些宗教饰品，安置在我们在河面上播撒的这些漂浮球里，在夜晚就可以被捞起。我们在河中放出了几千个这样的漂浮球，过后回收那些没被捡走的。大量的漂浮球都被捡走了。这项举措平均每六小时能“劝”回一个游击队员，效果惊人。这里的核心讯息就是：在圣诞回家。
en:So rivers are the highways of the jungle,and this is something we learned,and most of the recruiting was being donein and around the river villages.So we went to these river villages,and we asked the people,and probably some of them weredirect acquaintances of the guerrillas.We asked them, &quot;Can you sendguerrillas a message?&quot;We collected over 6,000 messages.Some of them were notes saying, get out.Some of them were toys.Some of them were candy.Even people took off their jewelry,their little crosses and religious things,and put them in these floating ballsthat we sent down the riversso that they could be picked up at night.And we sent thousandsof these down the rivers,and then picked them uplater if they weren&#39;t.But lots of them were picked up.This generated, on average,a demobilization every six hours,so this was incredible and it was about:Come home at Christmas.
时间：10:47
zh-cn:然后和谈进程启动，一旦和谈进程启动，整个游击队的心态都发生了改变。这种改变的原因在于它让你思考：“如果和谈开始，战乱就可能会终结。在某个时刻我就能摆脱这里了。”他们的恐惧完全改观了，他们不再害怕“我是不是要被杀了？”他们的恐惧变成了“我会不会被拒绝？如果我想回归社会，会不会被拒绝？“于是去年圣诞节，我们找到了27名游击队员的母亲，请求她们把子女小时候的照片给我们，因为只有游击队员自己能认出这些照片，所以他们的性命应该没有危险，我们还请求她们做出最具母性的表态，那就是，“就算你是游击队员，你首先是我的孩子，回家吧，我在等你。”我给你们看看其中的一些照片。（掌声）谢谢。
en:Then came the peace process,and when the peace process started,the whole mindsetof the guerrilla changed.And it changed becauseit makes you think, &quot;Well,if there&#39;s a peace process,this is probably going to be over.At some point I&#39;m going to get out.&quot;And their fears completely changed,and their fears were not about,&quot;Am I going to get killed?&quot;Their fears were, &quot;Am Igoing to be rejected?When I get out of this,am I going to be rejected?&quot;So the past Christmas, what we did was we asked —we found 27 mothers of guerrillas,and we asked them to give us pictures of their children,when they only could recognize themselves,so as not to put their lives in danger,and we asked them to givethe most motherly message you can get,which is, &quot;Before you were a guerrilla,you were my child,so come home, I&#39;m waiting for you.&quot;You can see the pictures here.I&#39;ll show you a couple.(Applause)Thank you.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:这些照片被张贴在各种不同的地点，很多游击队员因此退出了，那副景象实在是美不胜收。
en:And these pictures were placedin many different places,and a lot of them came back,and it was really, really beautiful.
时间：12:06
zh-cn:我们随后决定与社区合作。在圣诞期间做了母亲留言的活动。现在，让我们来看看其他人。你们也许知道，今年有世界杯，哥伦比亚的成绩非常出色，这正是团结哥伦比亚的绝好时机。我们向游击队员提出：“回来吧，从丛林里出来，我们为你留着位子。”这个活动是通过电视和其他各种媒体渠道来表达“我们为你留着位子”。这个广告里的军人在说，“就在这架直升机上，我为你留着位子，从丛林走出来去享受世界杯吧。“前足球运动员、电台主播，所有人都为游击队员留出了一席之地。
en:And then we decided to work with society.So we did mothers around Christmastime.Now let&#39;s talk aboutthe rest of the people.And you may be aware of this or not,but there was a World Cup this year,and Colombia played really well,and it was a unifying moment for Colombia.And what we did was tell the guerrillas,&quot;Come, get out of the jungle.We&#39;re saving a place for you.&quot;So this was television, this was all different types of media saying,&quot;We are saving a place for you.&quot;The soldier here in the commercial says,&quot;I&#39;m saving a place for youright here in this helicopterso that you can get out of this jungleand go enjoy the World Cup.&quot;Ex-football players, radio announcers,everybody was savinga place for the guerrilla.
时间：12:59
zh-cn:从八年多以前，我们开始介入说服游击队员的工作以来，已有一万七千多人主动退出了游击队。我并不——（鼓掌）
en:So since we started this worka little over eight years ago,17,000 guerrillas have demobilized.I do not — (Applause)
时间：13:11
zh-cn:哦，谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：13:14
zh-cn:我不想说这项成果都要归功于我们的工作，但我可以肯定，我们的工作和所付出的努力，可能催生了很多人主动退出的念头，可能是他们做出最后决定的动力。如果真是如此，那么广告仍旧可以说是我们现有的催生变革的工具当中最强有力的一个。我并不是只代表自己，我还要代表在座的所有广告行业的同僚，以及所有在这个项目中我合作过的团队，如果你想改变世界，或者想实现和平，请给我们打电话。我们很乐意帮忙。
en:I don&#39;t want to say in any waythat it only has to do with what we do,but what I do know is that our workand the work that we domay have helped a lot of themstart thinking about demobilization,and it may have helped a lot of themtake the final decision.If that is true, advertising is stillone of the most powerful tools of changethat we have available.And I speak not only my behalf,but on behalf of allthe colleagues I see herewho work in advertising,and of all the team that hasworked with me to do this,that if you want to change the world,or if you want to achieve peace, please call us.We&#39;d love to help.
时间：14:04
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:06
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
