时间： 0:15
zh-cn:今天我来和大家聊聊建筑事务所。这里的“建筑”是指建筑再现的过程，而不是简简单单的视觉表现。这是两年前我在我和事务所参加的有史以来最具开拓性的项目中得到的一只建筑头盔。当时得到它我兴奋极了。能成为唯一一个头戴银光闪闪的头盔站上舞台的人实在让我激动不已。我觉得它就代表了那座建筑的重要性。
en:I&#39;m going to speak to you today about architectural agency.What I mean by that is that it&#39;s time for architectureto do things again, not just represent things.This is a construction helmet that I received two years agoat the groundbreaking of the largest projectI, and my firm, have ever been involved in.I was thrilled to get it. I was thrilled to be the only personstanding on the stage with a shiny silver helmet.I thought it represented the importance of the architect.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:直到回到家里，我还激动得不行我把头盔扔到床上，在床上躺下，这才发现头盔里还刻了字。（警告：这个特制的镀银头盔只能作装饰用途，无实际保护功能）（笑）现在，我觉得这是一个深刻的隐喻正传达了当今建筑师与建筑的情况。我们都只是装饰品而已。（笑）
en:I stayed thrilled until I got home,threw the helmet onto my bed,fell down onto my bed and realized insidethere was an inscription.(Laughter)Now, I think that this is a great metaphorfor the state of architecture and architects today.We are for decorative purposes only.(Laughter)
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:那么，这都怪谁呢？只能怪我们自己。过去的这五十年来，设计和建造业变得如此复杂如此争强好胜。而我们建筑师却成了胆小鬼。当我们面对责任，就步步后退但不幸的是，哪里有责任，哪里就有权利。结果就是我们最终发现自己已经完全退到了最边缘的地方。
en:Now, who do we have to blame?We can only blame ourselves. Over the last 50 yearsthe design and construction industry has gotten much more complexand has gotten much more litigious.And we architects are cowards.So, as we have faced liability,we have stepped back and back,and unfortunately, where there is liability, guess what there is:power.So, eventually we have found ourselvesin a totally marginalized position, way over here.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:现在，我们又该怎么办呢？我们确实是胆小鬼，但又是其中最聪明的。所以我们得将这块边缘地带重新设定成建筑的存在空间。我们大声招呼，”嗨，建筑，看这儿！只有这种独立宣言才能让我们掌握整个过程。”然后我们要对这个职业进行骇人的改造我们实际上人为地让创造和执行分立为二，在创意的时候完全不用考虑执行的问题在执行的时候也不需要知道该如何创新。
en:Now, what did we do? We&#39;re cowards,but we&#39;re smart cowards.And so we redefined this marginalized position as the place of architecture.And we announced, &quot;Hey, architecture, it&#39;s over here,in this autonomous languagewe&#39;re going to seed control of processes.&quot;And we were going to do something that was horrible for the profession.We actually created an artificial schismbetween creation and execution,as if you could actually create without knowing how to executeand as if you could actually executewithout knowing how to create.
时间： 2:03
zh-cn:现在情况发生了变化。以前我们告诉世界建筑是由描绘出的天才的草图的建筑师创造出来的。许多年来，为了实现这些草图所付出的难以想象的努力不仅仅被嘲笑作白费力气而且我们来说，这只是执行问题而已。但是这几乎和把三十分钟的交媾称作创造，将十月怀胎过程以及二十四小时的生产过程仅仅作为执行过程一样荒谬。
en:Now, something else happened.And that&#39;s when we began to sell the worldthat architecture was created by individualscreating genius sketches.And that the incredible amount of effort to deliver those sketchesfor years and years and years is not only somethingto be derided,but we would merely write it off asmerely execution.Now I&#39;d argue that that is as absurd as statingthat 30 minutes of copulation is the creative act,and nine months of gestation,and, God forbid, 24 hours of child laboris merely execution.
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:所以我们建筑师到底要做些什么？我们要将创造和执行一步步地重新缝合。我们要掌控整个过程，而不是零碎的部件。如果我们能做到这些，我相信就能回到五十年前将事务所和社会工程重新注入建筑过程。现在，建筑师们有太多东西需要学了比如说管理合同，写合同甚至要搞清采购流程知道时间就是金钱，还要懂得成本估算。
en:So, what do we architects need to do? We need to stitch backcreation and execution.And we need to start authoring processes againinstead of authoring objects.Now, if we do this, I believe we can go back 50 yearsand start reinjecting agency,social engineering, back into architecture.Now, there are all kinds of things that we architects need to learn how to do,like managing contracts, learning how to write contracts,understanding procurement processes,understanding the time value of money and cost estimation.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:但我要把这些“重任”都卸去，回到整个过程的原点，三条不得不遵循的规则。首先，要在与客户的接触中占核心地位。我知道，这是很不靠谱，但这正是“建筑”需要的。
en:But I&#39;m going to reduce this to the beginning of the process,into three very pedantic statements.The first is: Take core positions with your client.I know it&#39;s shocking, right, that architecture would actually say that.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:第二条，坚定立场，并且要和客户达成一致这个时候作为建筑师，就可以和客户一同注入各自的创想和作用。这必须由你们共同参与完成。只有在这一步完成之后，你才能开始拿出你的建筑设计来展现你的立场。建筑师和客户双方都可以在你们达成的共识的基础上对设计进行评价。
en:The second position is: Actually take positions.Take joint positions with your client.This is the moment in which you as the architectand your client can begin to injectvision and agency.But it has to be done together.And then only after this is doneare you allowed to do this, begin to put forwardarchitectural manifestationsthat manifest those positions.And both owner and architect alikeare empowered to critique those manifestationsbased on the positions that you&#39;ve taken.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:现在，我敢说你如果按我说的做，一定会达到意想不到的效果我倾向于把它称作一门几近失传的用松散管理来提高效率的艺术你不知道结果会怎样但我保证，只要汇集足够的智慧，足够的热情和决心就能得到超越传统的最终方案那绝对是在项目开始时每个人都无法想象的成功。
en:Now, I believe that one really amazing thing will happen if you do this.I&#39;d like to call it the lost art of productively losing control.You do not know what the end result is.But I promise you, with enough brain powerand enough passion and enough commitment,you will arrive at conclusionsthat will transcend convention,and will simply be somethingthat you could not have initiallyor individually conceived of.
时间： 4:21
zh-cn:好了，我现在就用一些简单的图画来说明以上的过程。这是我们现在惯用的伎俩。我们推出一个一百二十英尺高的斯巴达人现在，我们的目标就是打开顾客的特洛伊城门我们还不晓得为什么他们不给我们开门，对吧？那为什么不这样，我们给他们送上他们想要的东西
en:Alright, now I&#39;m going to reduce all of this to a seriesof simple dumb sketches.This is the modus operandi that we have today.We roll 120-foot Spartan,i.e. our vision, up to our clients&#39; gates of Troy.And we don&#39;t understand why they won&#39;t let us in. Right?Well, how about instead of doing that,we roll up to the gates something they want.
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:这就是有点危险性的伪装了因为我们都知道特洛伊木马里面有一干拿了长矛的战士那么，我们就改变原来容易识破的伪装。让我们把特洛伊木马称做让你攻克大门的容器攻克一个项目的种种限制。这时候，你和你的客户就可以开始考虑在这个容器中要放些什么事务所的作用，还有你们的创想如果你那么做，尽职尽责地进行我相信你完全可以将斯巴达人换成创想传递给客户。
en:Now this is a little bit of a dangerous metaphor,because of course we all know that insideof the Trojan Horse were a bunch of people with spears.So, we can change the metaphor. Let&#39;s call the Trojan Horsethe vessel by whichyou get through the gate,get through the constraints of a project.At which point, you and your clienthave the ability to start considering whatyou&#39;re going to put inside that vessel,the agency, the vision.And if you do that, you do that responsibly,I believe that instead of delivering Spartans,you can deliver maidens.
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:要把刚才说的都总结一下，变成一张图，就会使这样。如果我们都那么心灵手巧为什么就不能让我们的建筑构思天衣无缝地契合上项目和客户的种种要求呢？有了这些铺垫，我准备向你们展示一个对很多在做观众都很亲切熟悉的项目可能不那么亲切，但至少它就在你们身边。这个项目下周就要正式对外开放了它是达拉斯表演艺术中心迪和查尔斯·威利剧院
en:And if I could summarize that all up into one single sketch it would be this.If we are so good at our craftshouldn&#39;t we be able to conceiveof an architectural manifestationthat slides seamlessly throughthe project&#39;s and the client&#39;s constraints?Now, with that in mind, I&#39;m going to show a projectthat&#39;s very dear to many people in this room—well, maybe not dear, but certainly close to many people in this room.And that&#39;s a project that is just about to open next week,the new home for the Dallas Theater Center,the Dee and Charles Wyly Theatre.
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:现在，我就要把它置于同样的条件，核心问题，立场和建筑表现中来。我们遇到的第一个问题就是达拉斯表演艺术中心虽然在纽约，芝加哥和西雅图组成的三角区域之外，却一直“恶名昭著”。这与政治野心和领导势力有关。但同时，另一个不同寻常的原因就是这个以前的表演场所，一幢极其丑陋的小房子
en:Now, I&#39;m going to present it on the same terms:issue, position and architectural manifestation.Now, the first issue that we facedwas that the Dallas Theater Centerhad a notoriety that was beyond what you would expectof some place outside of the triumvirateof New York, Chicago and Seattle.And this had to do with the ambitions of the leadership.But it also had to do with something rather unusual,and that was this horrible little building that they&#39;d been performing in.
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:为什么这栋不起眼的小房子对他们的名声和革新那么重要？因为在这里，他们可以放肆大胆地表演。如果是在百老汇，你就不能把幕前舞台整个拆了。但在这里，如果哪个艺术指导想要做一场《樱桃园》，并希望人们能直接从舞台上出现，他们就能找来挖土机，在舞台上挖个洞。听起来很刺激吧这样你就可以请全国最好的艺术指导，布景设计，和演员来这里表演因为在这儿他们可以任意发挥，不受限制。
en:Why was this horrible little buildingso important to their renown and their innovation?Because they could do whatever they wanted to to this building.When you&#39;re on Broadway, you cannot tear the proscenium down.This building, when an artistic directorwanted to do a &quot;Cherry Orchard&quot; and wanted peopleand wanted people to come out of a well on the stage,they brought a backhoe in, and they simply dug the hole.Well, that&#39;s exciting.And you can start to get the best artistic directors,scenic designers and actors from around the countryto come to perform herebecause you can do things you can&#39;t do elsewhere.
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:我们的第一个立场就是“哎，我们建筑师可不是来做什么仿古建筑的。那不能保证现在的自由，只是能够提供遮蔽的做旧的棚子而已。第二个重要议题和第一个稍有不同就是表演人员和场地是多用途的就是说只要他们还有力气就可以在幕前，楼板舞台，横断各个地方表演，随你挑。他们需要的就是人力。
en:So, the first position we took was,&quot;Hey, we as architects had better not show upand do a pristine buildingthat doesn&#39;t engender the same freedoms that thisold dilapidated shed provided the company.&quot;The second issue is a nuance of the first.And that&#39;s that the company and the building was multiform.That meant that they were able to perform,as long as they had laborthey were able to go between proscenium, thrust, flat floor,arena, traverse, you name it.All they needed was labor.
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:嗯...事情在变化。事实上世界各地的各个机构都在发生改变。现在越来越难筹集运营资金，运营预算。所以，他们连廉价劳动力也不要了。最终，他们干脆把整个机构冻结成了他们口中所谓的“劣质场地”。
en:Well, something happened. In fact something happened to all institutionsaround the world.It started to become hard to raise operational costs,operational budgets.So, they stopped having inexpensive labor.And eventually they had to freeze their organizationinto something called a bastardized thruscenium.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:由此，我们的第二个立场就是我们要提供一种自由，可以让舞台结构任意变化一定要做到这点使得演出不用担心运营成本。对不？控制在可承受范围内。建筑展示是事实的呈现，无需语言。其中需要的就是把我们知道的房子的前部和后部换成上部和下部。
en:So, the second position we took is that the freedoms that we provided,the ability to move between stage configurations,had better be able to be donewithout relying on operational costs. Alright? Affordably.The architectural manifestationwas frankly just dumb.It was to take all the things that are known as front of house and back of houseand redefine them as above house and below house.
时间： 7:56
zh-cn:说到这儿你肯定会想，“哎呀，真是疯了这能得出什么玩意儿啊？”我们把我们的创造叫做“超级苍蝇”（笑）现在，这个概念是这样你可以想象舞台升降塔的各种自由然后让这种种便利散布到观众席中。突然间艺术指导可以在不同的舞台和观众区自由移动因为舞台升降塔可以实现各种基本需要，忽然间剩下的其他部分都成了临时的。你可以钻洞，切割，固定，拧转，油漆和替换，用最小的花费就能实现。
en:At first blush you think, &quot;Hey it&#39;s crazy,what could you possibly gain?&quot;We created what we like to call superfly.(Laughter)Now, superfly, the concept isyou take all the freedoms you normally associate with the flytower,and you smear them across flytower and auditorium.Suddenly the artistic directorcan move between different stageand audience configurations.And because that flytower has the ability to pick upall the pristine elements, suddenly the rest of the environmentcan be provisional. And you can drill, cut, nail, screwpaint and replace,with a minimum of cost.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:这么做还有一个好处还是出乎我们意料的。这种做法以最独特的方式将观众区的周长释放开了。这种释放忽然间给了艺术指导定义“解除怀疑”的力量。于是，这栋建筑成全了艺术指导们，让他们可以在这个悬浮的物体下方设计各种可以想象的活动。同时挑战“接触怀疑”的理念比如说在《麦克白》的最后一幕，如果哪个艺术指导想让你把这一幕的故事与达拉斯，与你的真实生活联系起来，他（她）就能做到。
en:But there was a third advantage that we got by doing this movethat was unexpected.And that was that it freed up the perimeter of the auditoriumin a most unusual way.And that provided the artistic director suddenlythe ability to define suspension of disbelief.So, the building affords artistic directors the freedomto conceive of almost any kind of activityunderneath this floating object.But also to challenge the notion of suspension of disbeliefsuch that in the last act of Macbeth,if he or she wants you to associatethe parable that you&#39;re seeing with Dallas, with your real life,he or she can do so.
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:为了实现这个目标，我们和我们的客户必须要做一件相当不同寻常的事儿。事实上是客户需要做这事儿。他们要在我们采取的立场上做一个决断，把原来三分之一基础建设，三分之二建筑设计的预算分工完全颠倒三分之二基础建设和三分之一建筑设计。对于客户来说，这是不小的决定尤其是在你能看到概念转换成“成果”之前。但在我们的那些立场的基础上，他们迈出了极有借鉴意义的一步。作为回应，我们也做出了我们的“剧院机器”。
en:Now, in order to do this we and the clientshad to do something fairly remarkable.In fact it really was the clients who had to do it.They had to make a decision, based on the positions we tookto redefine the budget being from two thirds capital-A architectureand one-third infrastructure,to actually the inverse,two-thirds infrastructure and one-third capital-A architecture.That&#39;s a lot for a client to commit tobefore you actually see the fruition of the concept.But based on the positions,they took the educated leap of faith to do so.And effectively we created what we like to calla theater machine.
时间： 9:40
zh-cn:现在，这台机器的各个结构都可以进行重新组合只要按一个钮，加上少量的工作人员，很短的时间内就可以完成。不仅如此，它在提供各种形式的变换之余还能改变观众的入场顺序。就是说，艺术指导不一定非要经过大厅。
en:Now, that theater machine has abilityto move between a whole series of configurationsat the push of a button and a few stagehandsin a short amount of time.But it also has the potentialto not only provide multiform but multi-processional sequences.Meaning: The artistic directordoesn&#39;t necessarily need to go through our lobby.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:在我们还在参观各个剧院的时候，学到的一点就是他们对建筑师恨之入骨，因为他们说在任何一场演出的前五分钟，他们要做的头等重要的事就是把整个建筑赶出资助人的脑海。而现在，这栋房子可以让艺术指导在剧院里自由活动而不受到建筑本身的限制。这就是我们的剧院，这里是一个坡道，从这里进入大厅穿过大厅，这里有我们悬挂的小物件，不论你喜欢与否然后上楼，进入观众区。
en:One of the things that we learned when we visited various theatersis they hate us architects,because they say the first thing they have to do,the first five minutes of any show,is they have to get our architectureout of the mind of their patron.Well now there are potentials of this buildingto allow the artistic directorto actually move into the buildingwithout using our architecture.So, in fact, there is the building, there is what we call the draw.You&#39;re going down into our lobby,go through the lobby with our own little dangly bits, whether you like them or not,up through the stair that leads you into the auditorium.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:但它还可以将人们直接从外面带入内部。就是说这是一种瓦格纳式的入口可以直接进入观众区。这就是我们的成果。这是两扇大转门可以让人们直接从外面进到里面，自由进出表演者，观众都可以。
en:But there is also the potentialto allow people to move directly from the outside,in this case suggesting kind of Wagnerian entrance,into the interior of the auditorium.And here is the fruition of that in actuality.These are the two large pivoting doorsthat allow people to move directly from the outside, inor from the inside, out,performers or audience alike.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:现在，想象一下那是多么有趣。我必须诚实的说现在这栋建筑还不能做到这步，因为整个过程太长了。但是想象一下那种自由如果你能更进一步，可以想象一下瓦格纳式的入口第一幕在开始，幕间休息在希腊，然后第二幕在竞技场，然后你离开的时候再次穿过大厅。我想说，这简直就是建筑的表演。它在用建筑师的方式将建筑本身的局限打破，来实现艺术指导的需要。
en:Now, imagine what that could be. I have to say honestlythis is not something yet the building can do because it takes too long.But imagine the freedomsif you could take this further, that in fact you could considera Wagnerian entry,a first act in thrust,an intermission in Greek, a second act in arena,and you leave through our lobby with dangly bits.Now that, I would say, is architecture performing.It is taking the hand of the architectto actually remove the hand of the architectin favor of the hand of the artistic director.
时间：11:24
zh-cn:下面我来带你们看一下三种不同结构构造。这是一整块的平面构造。你可以看到没有舞台，包厢被移到上方了，也没有观众座位观众区的地面是平的。
en:I&#39;ll go through the three basic configurations.This is the flat floor configuration.You notice that there is no proscenium,the balconies have been raised up, there are no seats,the floor in the auditorium is flat.
时间：11:35
zh-cn:第一个构造很容易看懂。现在包厢下来了，适合交响乐演奏观众区有了倾斜，正对着舞台观众座椅也加进来了。
en:The first configuration is easy to understand.The balconies come down, you see that the orchestrabegins to have a rake that&#39;s frontal towards the end stage,and the seats come in.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:第三个结构有点难懂你可以看到包厢几乎被完全移走了空出来的地方成为舞台的眼神有些座位的方向也需要改变相应的，坡度也要发生变化。
en:The third configuration is a little harder to understand.Here you see that the balconies actually have to move out of the wayin order to bring a thrust into the space.And some of the seats need to actually change their direction,and change their rake, to allow that to happen.
时间：12:00
zh-cn:我再放一遍，让你们看得清楚点你可以看到边上的包厢给舞台让出了位置舞台的突出部分形成了。
en:I&#39;ll do it again so you can see it.There you see it&#39;s the side balconies for the proscenium.And there it is in the thrust configuration.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:要想做到这种效果我们同样需要敢于冒险的客户他们告诉我们非常重要的一点：“你们可别成为试验品。”也就是说，我们最好不要成为第一个吃螃蟹的人。但是他们很愿意我们将其他领域的技术已经经过安全试验的装置运用到这个项目中去。
en:In order to do that,again, we needed a client who was willing to take educational risks.And they told us one important thing:&quot;You shall not beta-test.&quot;Meaning, nothing that we docan we be the first ones to do it.But they were willing for us to apply technologiesfrom other areas that already had failsafe mechanisms to this building.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:解决移动包厢的问题，我们用了一种“记分板升降机”现在，如果你把一块记分板丢在土堆上，结果会惨不忍睹。如果你没能把记分板拿出体育场，第二天又有“白雪溜冰团”的表演，结果也会很糟糕。而这项技术已经经过了安全保险验证，可以保证剧院和我们的客户在移动包厢的时候信心十足根据自己的意愿改变表演区的结构。
en:And the solution in terms of the balconieswas to use something that we all know as a scoreboard lift.Now, if you were to take a scoreboardand drop it on dirt and whiskey,that would be bad.If you were not able to take the scoreboard out of the arenaand be able to do the Ice Capades the next night,that would also be bad.And so this technology already had all the failsafe mechanismsand allowed the theater and our clientto actually do this with confidencethat they would be able to change over their configurations at will.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:我们用到的第二项技术其实是从大家都知道的剧院的舞台两侧的侧舞台。我们将交响乐舞台抬起来，旋转改变坡度，放在平地上，再一次改变坡度。简单地说，就是你可以任意调整观众席的坡度和视角。
en:The second technology that we appliedwas actually using things that you know fromthe stage side of an opera house.In this case what we&#39;re doing is we&#39;re takingthe orchestra floor, lifting it up, spinning it,changing the rake, taking it back to flat floor,changing the rake again. In essence, you can begin to definerakes and viewing anglesof people in the orchestra seating, at will.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:这是座椅的方向从面对舞台变成侧对舞台，第二种凸出舞台的构造。据我们所知，这是世界上第一个可以自由变换的舞台。这里既有各种音乐会需要的降噪板，也有悬空的构造和延伸至观众席的T台。还有最重要的，舞台塔上的布景可以任意变化。
en:Here you see the chairs being spun around to go from proscenium or end stageto thrust configuration.The proscenium, also. As far as we know this is the first building in the worldin which the proscenium can entirely fly out of the space.Here you see the various acoustic baffles as well asthe flying mechanisms and catwalks over the auditorium.And ultimately, up in the flytower,the scene sets that allow the transformations to occur.
时间：13:51
zh-cn:正如我所说，这一切都是为了创造一个灵活多变造价又可控的结构。我们还有另一个收获，即在释放了演出厅的空间后它可以将外面的达拉斯城参与进来。你现在看到的是建筑当前的状态，窗帘都拉上了。这是一张模拟图其实这并不是窗帘，而是与玻璃窗合一的塑料百叶窗这也是绝对安全的技术。如果你想看得清楚点，可以把它收起来剧场内部进行的一切，排练之类的都可以看到。同时还能让里面的观众看到达拉斯的城市，将达拉斯当做表演的舞台。
en:As I said, all that was in service of creating a flexibleyet affordable configuration.But we got this other benefit, and that wasthe ability of the perimeter to suddenly engageDallas on the outside.Here you see the building in its current statewith blinds closed. This is a trompe l&#39;oeil.Actually this is not a curtain. These are vinyl blindsthat are integrated into the windows themselves,again with failsafe mechanismsthat can be lifted such that you can completely demystify,if you chose, the operations of the theatergoing on behind, rehearsals and so forth.But you also have the abilityto allow the audience to see Dallas,to perform with Dallas as the backdrop of your performance.
时间：14:33
zh-cn:现在，我想让你们看一看很早的一张概念性的草图是这些元素的混合是这样子的你可以把各种东西带入演出厅。《阿依达》中的大象你真的可以把它带进去。你可以将观众区展现给达拉斯，反之亦然。你还可以打开各个部分来改变观众入场的方向，顺序观众可以在休息时自由进出剧院或者是从头到尾都待在剧院里
en:Now, if I&#39;ll take you through —this is an early concept sketch —take you through kind of a mixture of all these things together.Effectively you would have something like this.You would be allowed to bring objects or performers into the performing chamber:&quot;Aida,&quot; their elephants, you can bring the elephants in.You would be able to expose the auditorium to Dallasor vice versa, Dallas to the auditorium.You&#39;d be able to open portions in order tochange the procession,allow people to come in and out for an intermission,or to enter for the beginning or the end of a performance.
时间：15:05
zh-cn:我刚说过，所有包厢都是可以移动的甚至可以让它们彻底消失。舞台可以悬空可以让各种大件物品自己进入展厅但是最让人称道的就是我们成功挑战了将建筑设计的花费转移到基础建设上这就是这所建筑的代表性。这里所说到的还并不能涵盖这座建筑的所有灵活功能但至少能展现我们的基本意图。
en:As I said, all the balconies can move,but they can also be disappeared completely.The proscenium can fly.You can bring large objects into the chamber itself.But most convincingly when we had to confront the ideaof changing costs from architecture to infrastructure,is something that is represented by this.And again, this is not all the flexibilities of the building that is actually built,but at least suggests the ideas.
时间：15:28
zh-cn:这栋建筑可以迅速地变成完全平面的空楼层需要的话可以租出去。如果在座有在美国航空工作的，可以考虑下在这里举行你们的圣诞派对。（笑）那可以给公司筹集运营预算完全不需要再和其他场地比较了在这儿办活动的好处太多了。
en:This building has the ability, in short order,to go back to a flat floor organizationsuch that they can rent it out.Now, if there is anyone here from American Airlines,please consider doing your Christmas party here.(Laughter)That allows the company to raise operational budgetswithout having to compete with other venueswith much larger auditoriums.That&#39;s an enormous benefit.
时间：15:49
zh-cn:在这里，剧团可以进行完全封闭的演出，有可控的灯光，音效，一流的音响效果可以演出一流的莎士比亚戏。这里还可以演贝克特，背景就用达拉斯的天际。这是第一种平面结构。剧院可以大展身手。
en:So, the theater company has the abilityto do totally hermetic,light-controlled, sound-controlled, great acoustics,great intimacy Shakespeare,but can also do Beckettwith the skyline of Dallas sitting behind it.Here it is in a flat floor configuration.The theater has been going through its kind of paces.
时间：16:07
zh-cn:这是第二种结构，看上去非常漂亮，可以进行摇滚乐演出。我们在外面测试了它的音响系统你可以看到里面的人的活动，但完全听不到他们。这非常不同寻常。这是第三种延伸出来的结构。它很重要不仅可以在这里进行筹集资金的活动这栋建筑还可以帮助公司解决它们最大的困难。
en:Here it is in an end stage configuration.It&#39;s actually beautiful. There was a rock band.We stood outside trying to see if the acoustics worked,and you could see the guys doing this but you couldn&#39;t hear them.It was very unusual.Here it is in a thrust configuration.And last but not least,you see this already has the ability to create eventsin order to generate operational budgetsto overcome the building in fact performingto allow the company to overcome their biggest problem.
时间：16:31
zh-cn:我还要给你们展示一下整个建造的快进过程。我说过，两个人就能完成用最少的时间完成。这是第一个变化完成的时候那里大概聚了几千人大家都非常兴奋，想要参与到其中去。所以为了把那密密麻麻的几千只蚂蚁去掉影片进行了处理，只留下几个人。是，几个人就够了（笑）我保证。就是这样。（鼓掌）
en:I&#39;m going to show you a brief time lapse.As I said, this can be done with only two people,and with a minimum amount of time.This is the first time that actually the changeover was doneand so there is literally thousands of people becauseeveryone was excited and wanted to be a part of it.So, in a way try to disregard all the thousands of ants running around.And think of it being done with just a few people.Again, just a couple people are required.(Laughter)I promise.Et voila.(Applause)
时间：17:48
zh-cn:所以，总的来说，不用费多大事儿。这是AT&amp;T(美国电信电话公司)表演艺术中心的迪和查尔斯·威利剧院今天晚上就到这儿了最后，但同样重要的是在整个AT&amp;T表演艺术中心你可以看到右边是温斯皮尔歌剧院，左边是迪和查尔斯·威利剧院
en:So, just in conclusion, a few shots.This is the AT&amp;T Performing Arts Center&#39;sDee and Charles Wyly Theater.There it is at night.And last but not least the entire AT&amp;T Performing Arts Center.You can see the Winspear Opera House on the rightand the Dee and Charles Wyly Theater on the left.
时间：18:06
zh-cn:要提示你们的是这幢建筑确实有它存在的意义。但是我们是在不知道到底在往哪里发展的情况下得到了这个结果。我们只知道一系列公司和客户想要解决的问题。我们在各个问题中找到自己的立场，然后通过它们渐渐看到了建筑的形状我们得到的最终结论就是我们中没有任何一个人可以单独或者在众人之前完成这个构想。谢谢。（掌声）
en:And to remind you that here is an example in whicharchitecture actually did something.But we got to that conclusionwithout understanding where we were going,what we knew were a series of issues that the companyand the client was confronted with.And we took positions with them, and it was through those positionsthat we began to take architectural manifestationsand we arrived at a conclusion that none of us,really none of us could everhave conceived of initially or individually.Thank you.(Applause)
