时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我热爱食品我也热爱信息。我的孩子们常常对我说我看起来显然更像个吃货。（笑声）
en:I love my food.And I love information.My children usually tell methat one of those passions is a little more apparent than the other.(Laughter)
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:不过在接下来的八分钟里我会向大家介绍这两个爱好是如何发展的，它们合二为一的时刻，以及此后我的学习旅程。今天我想把下面这个问题留给你们：如果像看待食物那样看待信息你的生活会有什么样的改变？
en:But what I want to do in the next eight minutes or sois to take you through how those passions developed,the point in my life when the two passions merged,the journey of learning that took place from that point.And one idea I want to leave you with todayis what would would happen differently in your lifeif you saw information the way you saw food?
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:我出生在加尔各答（印度城市）我的父亲和祖父都是记者，他们用英语为杂志写文章。这就是我家的家族产业。因此，我小时候家里全是书。真的是堆满了，就像这样。这其实是加尔各答的一家商店，不过光顾那里的都是爱书人。事实上，我现在一共有三万八千本书而且没有Kindle（亚马逊出品的电子书）。
en:I was born in Calcutta —a family where my father and his father before himwere journalists,and they wrote magazines in the English language.That was the family business.And as a result of that,I grew up with books everywhere around the house.And I mean books everywhere around the house.And that&#39;s actually a shop in Calcutta,but it&#39;s a place where we like our books.In fact, I&#39;ve got 38,000 of them nowand no Kindle in sight.
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:我成长的时候身边全是书和喜欢讨论书的人，这对我的影响很大。
en:But growing up as a child with the books around everywhere,with people to talk to about those books,this wasn&#39;t a sort of slightly learned thing.
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:我十八岁的时候就对书籍有着深深的依恋。读书不是我唯一的爱好。我来自印度南部在孟加拉长大。孟加拉人有两大爱好：他们喜欢美食和甜点。所以我长大之后，对美食的爱好根深蒂固。我成长在六十年代末七十年代初，也有不少其它兴趣，但这两个爱好让我与众不同。（笑声）
en:By the time I was 18, I had a deep passion for books.It wasn&#39;t the only passion I had.I was a South Indianbrought up in Bengal.And two of the things about Bengal:they like their savory dishesand they like their sweets.So by the time I grew up,again, I had a well-established passion for food.Now I was growing up in the late &#39;60s and early &#39;70s,and there were a number of other passions I was also interested in,but these two were the ones that differentiated me.(Laughter)
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:随后我的生活一帆风顺。一切都挺好的，直到我二十六岁那一年。我看了一部名叫《雷霆五号》（Short Circuit）的电影。哦，你们好多人都看过。现在这部电影正在被重拍明年上映。故事的主人公是这个实验机器人它触电之后通了人性。在影片中，它一直说：“我要信息输入。我要信息输入。”
en:And then life was fine, dandy.Everything was okay,until I got to about the age of 26,and I went to a movie called &quot;Short Circuit.&quot;Oh, some of you have seen it.And apparently it&#39;s being remade right nowand it&#39;s going to be coming out next year.It&#39;s the story of this experimental robotwhich got electrocuted and found a life.And as it ran, this thing was saying, &quot;Give me input. Give me input.&quot;
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:我突然意识到，对于机器人来说信息和食物是一个东西。能量以某种形式或形态进入它的身体，数据以某种形式或形态进入它的身体。我开始思考我在想既然食物和信息从某种程度上来说十分相似那么我们能否将能量和信息统一视为输入呢？
en:And I suddenly realized that for a robotboth information as well as foodwere the same thing.Energy came to it in some form or shape,data came to it in some form or shape.And I began to think,I wonder what it would be liketo start imagining myselfas if energy and information were the two things I had as input —as if food and information were similar in some form or shape.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:我从那时起开始从事相关的研究，到现在已经二十五年了我最早的发现就是若以体重为标准身为灵长类动物的人类胃很小大脑却很大
en:I started doing some research then, and this was the 25-year journey,and started finding outthat actually human beings as primateshave far smaller stomachsthan should be the size for our body weightand far larger brains.
时间： 3:20
zh-cn:深入研究之后我发现了一种名为昂贵组织的假说这种假说认为：对于一定体重的灵长类动物来说新陈代谢率是一定的。不同的是体内各种组织的平衡。而人体内两种最为昂贵的组织是神经组织和消化组织因此人们提出了一个假设1995年的时候这个假设衍生出了不少精彩的成果。这些成果背后的功臣是一位名叫Leslie Aiello的女士。
en:And as I went to research that even further,I got to a point where I discovered somethingcalled the expensive tissue hypothesis.That actually for a given body mass of a primatethe metabolic rate was static.What changed was the balance of the tissues available.And two of the most expensive tissues in our human bodyare nervous tissue and digestive tissue.And what transpired was that people had put forward a hypothesisthat was apparently coming up with some fabulous results by about 1995.It&#39;s a lady named Leslie Aiello.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:相关的论文显示，胃和大脑，不可兼得。在体重一定的情况下，如果你希望拥有更大的大脑的话，就只能拥有一个比较小的胃。
en:And the paper then suggested that you traded one for the other.If you wanted your brain for a particular body mass to be large,you had to live with a smaller gut.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:这种观点让我确信食物和信息一定有关联。因此我把信息当成食物，研究了它的生产过程我的结论是，我们都是信息的捕猎者和采集者。后来我们逐渐成为培育信息的农民和生产者。
en:That then set me off completelyto say, Okay, these two are connected.So I looked at the cultivation of information as if it were foodand said, So we were hunter-gathers of information.We moved from that to becoming farmers and cultivators of information.
时间： 4:29
zh-cn:这是否能解释今天的知识产权斗争呢？因为信息捕猎者和采集者希望能自由自在的获取他们想要的信息，而那些从事信息生产的人希望用栅栏保护他们的产品建立所有制，积累财富，形成体系，达成协议因此两者的关系总是有点紧张。在食物生产中生产者和捕猎者以及采集者之间一直都有诸多冲突。信息范畴也是如此。
en:Does that really explain what we&#39;re seeingwith the intellectual property battles nowadays?Because those people who were hunter-gatherers in originwanted to be free and roam and pick up information as they wanted,and those that were in the business of farming informationwanted to build fences around it,create ownership and wealth and structure and settlement.So there was always going to be a tension within that.And everything I saw in the cultivationsaid there were huge fights amongst the foodiesbetween the cultivators and the hunter-gatherers.And this is happening here.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:我发现信息和食物在处理环节上也有相似之处，而且都有两种风格。一些人认为可以提炼食物的精华将食物的价值从原料中提取和分离出来，然而呈现在餐桌上，但是另外一部分人不同意这种做法。他们认为要把原料混合在一起才能体现食物的价值。信息也是如此。
en:When I moved to preparation, this same thing was true,expect that there were two schools.One group of people said you can distill your information,you can extract value, separate it and serve it up,while another group turned aroundand said no, no you can ferment it.You bring it all together and mash it upand the value emerges that way.The same is again true with information.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:但摄入环节更加有趣因为我发现人们摄取食物和信息的方法实在很多。我们可以在商店里购买原材料。自己做饭；吃现成的；或者下馆子。信息也是这样
en:But consumption was where it started getting really enjoyable.Because what I began to see thenwas there were so many different ways people would consume this.They&#39;d buy it from the shop as raw ingredients.Do you cook it? Do you have it served to you?Do you go to a restaurant?The same is true every time as I started thinking about information.
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:这个类比真是贴切无比——信息也有保质期，误用过时新闻可能对股票市场和企业市值等造成影响。至此我已经彻底沉迷其中不可自拔了。这差不多是在我进行了二十三年的研究之后发生的事情。
en:The analogies were getting crazy —that information had sell-by dates,that people had misused information that wasn&#39;t dated properlyand could really make an effect on the stock market,on corporate values, etc.And by this time I was hooked.And this is about 23 years into this process.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:这时我开始想我们逐渐开始将现实和虚构混合在一起，发展出了纪录剧情片，伪纪录片，名字并不重要。在未来的某个阶段我们会不会给信息标上一个事实比例呢？用事实比例来标记不同的信息？如果信息的源头被阻断在信息饥荒中，又会发生什么呢？
en:And I began to start thinking of myselfas we start having mash-ups of fact and fiction,docu-dramas, mockumentaries, whatever you call it.Are we going to reach the stagewhere information has a percentage for fact associated with it?We start labeling information for the fact percentage?Are we going to start looking at what happenswhen your information source is turned off, as a famine?
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:这也是我最后想探讨的一个问题。Clay Shirky曾经说过世界上不存在信息过载，只有过滤失败。我认为，如果从食物的角度思考，信息的问题不在于生产；没有人会说食物过剩。从根本上说，这是一个摄入的问题。我们必须开始思考我们如何用合理的饮食习惯和身体锻炼帮助身体处理消化各类信息，确保信息得到准确有效的标记。事实上，我看《大号的我》(Supersize Me)的时候就在想，如果一个人连续看三十一天不眠不休的看福克斯新闻会怎么样？（笑声）他会有时间消化这些信息吗？
en:Which brings me to the final element of this.Clay Shirky once stated that there is no such animal as information overload,there is only filter failure.I put it to you that information,if viewed from the point of food,is never a production issue; you never speak of food overload.Fundamentally it&#39;s a consumption issue.And we have to start thinkingabout how we create diets within ourselves, exercise within ourselves,to have the faculties to be able to deal with information,to have the labeling to be able to do it responsibly.In fact, when I saw &quot;Supersize Me,&quot; I starting thinking of saying,What would happenif an individual had 31 days nonstop Fox News?(Laughter)Would there be time to be able to work with it?
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:这样你就会明白你可能会得病、中毒，你需要平衡你的饮食，一旦开始这样想，从那个时刻开始，与信息有关的事情：信息的摄入、信息的生产、信息的处理，我都从食物的角度去思考。这可能让我的腰围愈发可观因为无论是信息还是食物我都喜欢亲身实验。
en:So you start really understandingthat you can have diseases, toxins, a need to balance your diet,and once you start looking, and from that point on,everything I have done in terms of the consumption of information,the production of information, the preparation of information,I&#39;ve looked at from the viewpoint of food.It has probably not helped my waistline anybecause I like practicing on both sides.
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:最后，我还是希望将这样一个问题留给你们：如果从食物的角度看待你接受的所有信息你会做出怎样的改变？
en:But I&#39;d like to leave you with just that question:If you began to think of all the information that you consumethe way you think of food,what would you do differently?
时间： 7:53
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you very much for your time.
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
