时间： 0:11
zh-cn:十二年前，我在街道上写下我的名字以此证明，我活着然后我转为给人们拍照并将照片贴在大街上以此证明，他们活着从巴黎的郊区到以色列和巴基斯坦的街墙从肯尼亚的屋顶到里约的贫民区我只用了纸和胶水，就这么简单
en:Twelve years ago, I was in the street writing my nameto say, &quot;I exist.&quot;Then I went to taking photos of people to paste them on the streetto say, &quot;They exist.&quot;From the suburbs of Paris to the wall of Israel and Palestine,the rooftops of Kenyato the favelas of Rio,paper and glue — as easy as that.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:我去年发现了一个问题艺术能改变世界吗让我告诉你吧在改变世界这方面，今年涌现了很多竞争场面因为“阿拉伯之春”还在蔓延欧元区开始崩溃，还有...“占领运动”掀起了抗议而且我还得不断地说英文所以这个世界有太多的变化
en:I asked a question last year:Can art change the world?Well let me tell you,in terms of changing the world there has been a lot of competition this year,because the Arab Spring is still spreading,the Eurozone has collapsed ... what else?The Occupy movement found a voice,and I still have to speak English constantly.So there has been a lot of change.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:当我去年在“TED愿望”时我说，看，我要扭转我的观念你们把照片拍下来然后发给我我会打印出来然后再发回给你只有你找到可以发表你感想的地方你就把照片贴上去
en:So when I had my TED wish last year,I said, look, I&#39;m going to switch my concept.You are going to take the photos.You&#39;re going to send them to me.I&#39;m going to print them and send them back to you.Then you&#39;re going to paste them where it makes sensefor you to place your own statement.
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:这个就是“颠覆计划”(Inside Out)今年已经打印了十万张海报了这里有些海报，我给你们看下而且我们每天都在不断增加发送量就是这个尺寸就是一张正常的纸张，上面再加点油墨这张是来自海地的
en:This is Inside Out.One hundred thousand posters have been printed this year.Those are the kind of posters, let me show you.And we keep sending more every day.This is the size.Just a regular piece of paper with a little bit of ink on it.This one was from Haiti.
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:在我去年发表愿望的时候数以百计的人们都站起来说想帮我们实现但我说这必须得按着我一直以来的方式才行不要贷款，不要徽标，不要赞助商一周以后，有些人已经开始摩拳擦掌了并且当场授权了那些想要改变世界的人这些人是我今天想跟你们提一提的
en:When I launched my wish last year,hundreds of people stood up and said they wanted to help us.But I say it has to beunder the conditions I&#39;ve always worked:no credit, no logos, no sponsoring.A week later, a handful of people were there ready to rockand empower the people on the groundwho wanted to change the world.These are the people I want to talk about to you today.
时间： 2:12
zh-cn:我的演讲后的两周，在突尼斯他们制作了数百张肖像而且他们将这些自己的肖像贴在每一张独裁者肖像海报上面哇！就是这样发生了Slim和他的朋友们走遍了整个国家在这个国家到处粘贴了数百张的海报以此展示它的多样性他们确实把“Insight Out计划”当作自己的事业事实上，那张照片是贴在警局的另外你看看地面都是警局通缉照片里的人的身份证
en:Two weeks after my speech, in Tunisia,hundreds of portraits were made.And they pasted [over] every single portrait of the dictator[with] their own photos.Boom! This is what happened.Slim and his friends went through the countryand pasted hundreds of photos everywhereto show the diversity in the country.They really make Inside Out their own project.Actually, that photo was pasted in a police station,and what you see on the groundare ID cards of all the photos of people being tracked by the police.
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:在俄罗斯，Chad想对同性恋恐惧症表示抗议他和他的朋友前往了欧洲的各个俄罗斯大使馆带着照片站在那说，“我们拥有权利。”他们借“颠覆计划”作为抗议的平台
en:Russia. Chad wanted to fight against homophobia in Russia.He went with his friends in front of every Russian embassy in Europeand stood there with the photosto say, &quot;We have rights.&quot;They used Inside Out as a platform for protest.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:在巴基斯坦的卡拉奇Sharmeen今天也在这儿她在那里组织了一场TEDx行动在家里那个镇上，她把这个城市鲜为人知的面孔都粘贴到了墙上今天我想借此对她表示感谢
en:Karachi, Pakistan.Sharmeen is actually here.She organized a TEDx action out thereand made all the unseen faces of the cityon the walls in her town.And I want to thank her today.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:北达科他州立岩印第安保留区在龟岛上，来自达科拉科塔族的人(姓名不详)想要告诉大家美洲原住民仍在这儿第七代的子孙依旧在为他们的权利而争取着他在这个保留区贴满了海报他今天也在现场每次我在纽约拥有一面墙可以创作时我都会用他的照片继续传播这个项目
en:North Dakota. Standing Rock Nation,in this Turtle Island, [unclear name] from the Dakota Lakota tribewanted to show that the Native Americans are still here.The seventh generation are still fighting for their rights.He pasted up portraits all over his reservation.And he&#39;s here also today.Each time I get a wall in New York,I use his photos to continue spreading the project.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:墨西哥华瑞兹市，你们应该听过这个边界世上最险恶的边界之一Monica已带着上千幅海报和一个摄影师团队将海报贴满边界你知道这要付出什么代价吗？人力，精力，粘胶，组队很了不起
en:Juarez: You&#39;ve heard of the border —one of the most dangerous borders in the world.Monica has taken thousands of portraits with a group of photographersand covered the entire border.Do you know what it takes to do this?People, energy, make the glue, organize the team.It was amazing.
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:与此同时，在伊朗Abololo——绰号而已他贴上一张女人单人照以表达他对政府的反抗我不需向你们解释太多他这么做所冒的风险
en:While in Iran at the same timeAbololo — of course a nickname —has pasted one single face of a womanto show his resistance against the government.I don&#39;t have to explain to you what kind of risk he took for that action.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:在学校里也有很多项目我们收到的海报20%是来自学校的教育是如此的重要孩子们在课堂上做出照片，老师们则将之收集然后贴在校园里他们甚至得到了消防员的帮助学校应该更多地推广这些项目
en:There are tons of school projects.Twenty percent of the posters we are receiving comes from schools.Education is so essential.Kids just make photos in a class, the teacher receives them,they paste them on the school.Here they even got the help of the firemen.There should be even more schools doing this kind of project.
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:我们当然想回到以色列和巴基斯坦所以我们坐上一辆货车，这是一辆快照屋货车你从货车的后面上去，它就能给你拍照30秒后从车侧取照，你就能大展身手了使用它的人多不胜数他们每个人都签署了两国和平共处的解决方案然后就走上街头这是游行，45万人的游行，在九月初他们都举着自己的照片作为宣言另一方面，人们把照片贴满大街和高楼到处都是拜托，别告诉我那里的人们不渴望和平
en:Of course we wanted to go back to Israel and Palestine.So we went there with a truck. This is a photobooth truck.You go on the back of that truck, it takes your photo,30 seconds later take it from the side, you&#39;re ready to rock.Thousands of people use themand each of them signs up for a two-state peace solutionand then walk in the street.This is march, the 450,000 march — beginning of September.They were all holding their photo as a statement.On the other side, people were wrapping up streets, buildings.It&#39;s everywhere.Come on, don&#39;t tell me that people aren&#39;t ready for peace out there.
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:这些项目每年都有成千上万次活动有数以万计的人们参加其中制作出无数的景观这是目前进行的最大规模的全球性艺术合作项目
en:These projects took thousands of actions in one year,making hundreds of thousands of people participating,creating millions of views.This is the biggest global art participatory project that&#39;s going on.
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:所以回到那个问题，“艺术能改变世界吗？”也许一年改变不了，它才刚起步但或许我们稍微改一下问题艺术能改变人的生活吗？从我今年看到的成果，答案是肯定的你知道吗？它也才是刚刚开始而已让我们一起“颠覆”这个世界吧谢谢
en:So back to the question, &quot;Can art change the world?&quot;Maybe not in one year. That&#39;s the beginning.But maybe we should change the question.Can art change people&#39;s lives?From what I&#39;ve seen this year, yes.And you know what? It&#39;s just the beginning.Let&#39;s turn the world inside out together.Thank you.
时间： 6:13
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
