时间： 0:11
zh-cn:什么是生物能源？生物能源不是乙醇。生物能源也不是全球变暖。生物能源与很多人想象的东西不是一回事。生物能源石油，是煤炭，是通向未来的桥梁的一部分。在那个彼岸，我们终于能够理性地看待我们的海洋，或者建立这些地理空间轨道，让它们能高速旋转或者小幅度地波动，这些都将取决于我们如何理解并管理好生物能源。要做到这些，你必须首先了解农业。
en:What is bioenergy? Bioenergy is not ethanol.Bioenergy isn&#39;t global warming. Bioenergy issomething which seems counterintuitive. Bioenergyis oil. It&#39;s gas. It&#39;s coal. And part of buildingthat bridge to the future, to the point where wecan actually see the oceans in a rational way, orput up these geo-spatial orbits that will twirl ordo microwaves or stuff, is going to depend on howwe understand bioenergy and manage it. And to dothat, you really have to look first at agriculture.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:人类种植农作物的历史已经有11000年了。在种植的过程中，我们学会了如何对付害虫，还要面对各种各样的麻烦，培育出新的作物。了解到如何用水来灌溉农田后，你还要能够把尼罗河水抽取上来。你需要有动力设备，才能实现灌溉产量就会大不相同。
en:So we&#39;ve been planting stuff for 11,000 years. Andin the measure that we plant stuff, what we learnfrom agriculture is you&#39;ve got to deal with pests,you&#39;ve got to deal with all types of awful things,you&#39;ve got to cultivate stuff. In the measurethat you learn how to use water to cultivate, thenyou&#39;re going to be able to spread beyond the Nile.You&#39;re going to be able to power stuff, so irrigationmakes a difference.
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:灌溉使你能够随心所欲地种植农作物，而不是只能种在河水能够流到的地方。你可以开展这种有机农业，你开始使用机械设备进行生产。机械化，结合大量的水，使大规模的农业生产成为可能。运用机械及水，得到了现在这样一幅图景。然后这样的一些产品就能够销售出去。这是巨大外力的作用。这样一个发展农业的过程，是从一个原本相当自然的体系起步，最终去驯服这个自然体系。你把很多外力施加于这个自然体系。你使用了大量的杀虫剂和除草剂（笑声）在这个自然系统中。你最终把这个系统改造成这个样子。
en:Irrigation starts to make you be allowed to plantstuff where you want it, as opposed to where therivers flood. You start getting this organicagriculture; you start putting machinery onto thisstuff. Machinery, with a whole bunch of water,leads to very large-scale agriculture.You put together machines and water, and you getlandscapes that look like this. And then you getsales that look like this. It&#39;s brute force. Sowhat you&#39;ve been doing in agriculture is you startout with something that&#39;s a reasonably naturalsystem. You start taming that natural system. Youput a lot of force behind that natural system. Youput a whole bunch of pesticides and herbicides —(Laughter) — behind that natural system, and youend up with systems that look like this.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:这是在蛮干。这也是我们取得能源的方式。应此农业给我们带来的教训是，你可以在使用大规模外力作用于一个体系的时候融入这个体系，研究这个体系并将生物学运用于其中。你从遵循机械的原理，运用化学的原理，转为遵循生物学的原则。这个世界上最重要的人之一，就是我身后的这个人。
en:And it&#39;s all brute force. And that&#39;s the way we&#39;vebeen approaching energy. So the lesson inagriculture is that you can actually change thesystem that&#39;s based on brute force as you startmerging that system and learning that system andactually applying biology. And you move from adiscipline of engineering, you move from adiscipline of chemistry, into a discipline ofbiology. And probably one of the most importanthuman beings on the planet is this guy behind me.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:他的名字叫Norman Borlaug。他得到了诺贝尔奖。还获得了国会荣誉奖章。这一切都是他应得的。因为他的贡献是让更多的人吃饱饭。对此他做出的贡献比任何其他人都大。他把生物学理论用于育种。他在墨西哥完成这项研究。这就是为什么印度和中国不再有那么多人挨饿。Norman Borlaug教他们如何用更高效的方法种植粮食作物，掀起一场绿色革命。很多人对此持批评的态度。当然，那是因为，那些人没有意识到，中国和印度不仅不再挨饿，并且在出口粮食。
en:This is a guy called Norman Borlaug. He won theNobel Prize. He&#39;s got the Congressional Medal ofHonor. He deserves all of this stuff. And hedeserves this stuff because he probably has fedmore people than any other human being alivebecause he researched how to put biology behindseeds. He did this in Mexico. The reason why Indiaand China no longer have these massive famines isbecause Norman Borlaug taught them how to growgrains in a more efficient way and launched theGreen Revolution. That is something that a lot ofpeople have criticized. But of course, those arepeople who don&#39;t realize that China and India,instead of having huge amounts of starving people,are exporting grains.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:具有讽刺意味的是，这个方法在他进行这项研究的地方——墨西哥这项技术没有得到应用，反而是被忽视。有人认为这项技术还有欠考虑的地方，而没有真正去应用它。墨西哥仍旧是世界上最大的谷物进口国，因为他们没有应用在他们的国家发明的这项技术。事实上，他们并不认同这个人，墨西哥没有这个人的塑像。而在中国和印度都有。这个人设立的研究机构现在搬到了印度。这就是谈论一项技术和应用这项技术二者之间的区别。现在，不仅仅是这个人的技术让世界上大量的人有饭吃，而且，这示范了科学技术所能起到的作用。如果你懂得生物学的话。
en:And the irony of this particular system is theplace where he did the research, which was Mexico,didn&#39;t adopt this technology, ignored thistechnology, talked about why this technologyshould be thought about, but not really applied.And Mexico remains one of the largest grainimporters on the planet because it doesn&#39;t applytechnology that was discovered in Mexico. And infact, hasn&#39;t recognized this man, to the pointwhere there aren&#39;t statues of this man all overMexico. There are in China and India. And theInstitute that this guy ran has now moved toIndia. That is the difference between adoptingtechnologies and discussing technologies.Now, it&#39;s not just that this guy fed a huge amountof people in the world. It&#39;s that this is the neteffect in terms of what technology does, if youunderstand biology.
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:农业发生了怎样的变化？如果你回头看一个世纪以前的农业，1900年的农业跟一千年前的种植方法没有很大的区别。是的，看起来，犁的样子有些不同。人们用上了拖拉机等机械而不是骡子，但是农民们知道，这仍是人在操作，他还是要这么做，没什么太大的不同。农业真正开始改变始自从使用大规模的机械和化学力量转为运用生物学。并且从此生产力大大提高了。自从你那么做以后，产量这样的变化：
en:What happened in agriculture? Well, if you takeagriculture over a century, agriculture in about1900 would have been recognizable to somebodyplanting a thousand years earlier. Yeah, the plows lookdifferent. The machines were tractors or stuffinstead of mules, but the farmer would haveunderstood: this is what the guy&#39;s doing, this iswhy he&#39;s doing it, this is where he&#39;s going. Whatreally started to change in agriculture is whenyou started moving from this brute forceengineering and chemistry into biology, and that&#39;swhere you get your productivity increases. And asyou do that stuff, here&#39;s what happens toproductivity.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:基本上，产量从每250个小时生产100蒲式耳，变为40、15，甚至5个小时就可以生产这么多。农业劳动力的生产效率提高了7倍，从1950年到2000年间，其他的经济活动提高的程度是2.5倍。这样的提高真是突飞猛进，人均产出大大增加。当然，这种效果，看上去不仅是麦浪滚滚，而是堆积如山了。结果是欧盟百分之五十的预算用于对农业的补贴，补贴给人们生产出的这些粮食，无疑已经是过度生产。
en:Basically, you go from 250 hours to produce 100bushels, to 40, to 15, to five. Agricultural laborproductivity increased seven times, 1950 to 2000,whereas the rest of the economy increased about2.5 times. This is an absolutely massive increasein how much is produced per person.The effect of this, of course, is it&#39;s not justamber waves of grain, it is mountains of stuff.And 50 percent of the EU budget is going to subsidizeagriculture from mountains of stuff that peoplehave overproduced.
时间： 5:20
zh-cn:能源要是也有这样的局面就好了。当然，听到这里，你也许会对自己说，“嘿，我想我是来听有关能源的演讲，可是这家伙在这里大谈生物。”那么，这两个事物间的联系是什么呢？整个体系中具有讽刺意味的一点是，我们在讨论对一个我们所不了解的体系要做点什么。我们甚至都不知道石油到底是什么。我们不知道石油是从哪里来的。事实上，这至今都是有争议的，这流动着的黑色物质到底是什么，是从哪里来的。最靠谱的假说和猜测，这种物质来自于这些东西。这些东西吸收阳光，在压力的作用之下腐烂经过了上百万年，变成了这黑色河流。
en:This would be a good outcome for energy. And ofcourse, by now, you&#39;re probably saying toyourself, &quot;Self, I thought I came to a talk aboutenergy and here&#39;s this guy talking about biology.&quot;So where&#39;s the link between these two things?One of the ironies of this whole system is we&#39;rediscussing what to do about a system that we don&#39;tunderstand. We don&#39;t even know what oil is. Wedon&#39;t know where oil comes from. I mean,literally, it&#39;s still a source of debate whatthis black river of stuff is and where it comesfrom. The best assumption, and one of the bestguesses in this stuff, is that this stuff comesout of this stuff, that these things absorbsunlight, rot under pressure for millions ofyears, and you get these black rivers.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:那么，这个理论有意思的地方在于，如果这个理论是成立的，那么石油以及所有的碳氢化合物，都是浓缩的阳光。如果你再来看生物能源，生物能源不是乙醇，生物能源是来自于太阳，（太阳的能量）浓缩在变形虫中，浓缩在植物里，可能那就是为什么有这些彩虹（一般的东西）。你在审视这个体系的时候，如果碳氢化合物是浓缩的阳光，生物能源是以不同的方式起作用的。我们必须把石油和其他碳氢化合物看作是太阳能板的一部分。也许这就是其中的一个原因，当你飞过得克萨斯西部时，看到那些油井的景象似曾相识，它们与堪萨斯的灌溉图景大同小异。
en:Now, the interesting thing about that thesis — ifthat thesis turns out to be true — is that oil,and all hydrocarbons, turned out to beconcentrated sunlight. And if you think ofbioenergy, bioenergy isn&#39;t ethanol. Bioenergy istaking the sun, concentrating it in amoebas,concentrating it in plants, and maybe that&#39;s whyyou get these rainbows.And as you&#39;re looking at this system, ifhydrocarbons are concentrated sunlight, thenbioenergy works in a different way. And we&#39;ve gotto start thinking of oil and other hydrocarbons aspart of these solar panels.Maybe that&#39;s one of the reasons why if you flyover west Texas, the types of wells that you&#39;rebeginning to see don&#39;t look unlike those picturesof Kansas and those irrigated plots.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:这就是如何“收获”石油的景象。当你想象石油可以这样收获以及它们是如何演化来的，我们开始使用采用这种大规模外力的做法。然后，我们学到了什么呢？我们学到了必须更大规模地干。然后又学到什么呢？那就是还要干的更大。我们变得破坏性越来越大，在以这种方式收获生物能源的过程中。这是阿萨巴斯卡油砂田，油井星罗棋布，第一步是开采，世界上最大的卡车在这里工作。然后人们把这些黑色泥沙拉走，这些黑泥基本上就是不流动的石油。因为石油跟泥沙结合在一起了。下一步就要用大量的蒸气使它们分离，其成本之高只有在现在的高油价下才有可能。
en:This is how you farm oil. And as you think offarming oil and how oil has evolved, we startedwith this brute force approach. And then what didwe learn? Then we learned we had to go bigger. Andthen what&#39;d we learn? Then we have to go evenbigger. And we are getting really destructive aswe&#39;re going out and farming this bioenergy.These are the Athabasca tar sands, and there&#39;s anenormous amount — first of mining, the largesttrucks in the world are working here, and thenyou&#39;ve got to pull out this black sludge, which isbasically oil that doesn&#39;t flow. It&#39;s tied to thesand. And then you&#39;ve got to use a lot of steam toseparate it, which only works at today&#39;s oilprices.
时间： 7:53
zh-cn:煤炭事实上是差不多同样的东西。其来源也是植物，不同之处在于这些植物曾被焚烧，再被高压压碎。你就用这一类东西，经过燃烧，把它们置于压力之下，多半不会得到这样的东西。尽管这样，我一再强调：我们并不知道真相。我们就这些事情进行辩论是出于好奇。当你在考虑煤炭时，它们看起来跟燃烧过的麦子很相似。这看起来跟煤炭没有太大差别。
en:Coal. Coal turns out to be virtually the samestuff. It is probably plants, except that thesehave been burned and crushed under pressure.So you take something like this, you burn it, youput it under pressure, and likely as not, you getthis. Although, again, I stress: we don&#39;t know.Which is curious as we debate all this stuff. Butas you think of coal, this is what burned wheatkernels look like. Not entirely unlike coal.
时间： 8:23
zh-cn:当然，开采煤炭是非常危险的事情，因为在一些煤矿里，你会发现有毒气体。当这些气体爆炸时，是会死人的。这些生物气体（比如沼气）存在于有些煤矿，另外一些煤矿则没有。每个地方都有些不同之处，有些问题很有意思。有的问题诸如你应该如何对待这些东西。但是仍以煤炭为例，它们可能是同样的东西，可能是生成与同样的体系，可能就是生物能源，你都在运用相同的技术。
en:And of course, coalmines are very dangerousplaces because in some of these coalmines, youget gas. When that gas blows up, people die. Soyou&#39;re producing a biogas out of coal in somemines, but not in others.Any place you see a differential, there&#39;re someinteresting questions. There&#39;s some questions asto what you should be doing with this stuff. Butagain, coal. Maybe the same stuff, maybe the samesystem, maybe bioenergy, and you&#39;re applyingexactly the same technology.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:这就是施加大规模外力的方法。一旦你能够成功地使用这种方法，结果是整个山头被夷平。最终是造成最大单一来源的碳排放，即燃煤燃气发电厂。这也许并不是对生物能源的最好的利用。当你试图发现还有什么更好的选择，找到一种替代性的方法是很重要的，因为人们意识到美国的石油储备在不断减少，但是煤炭的储备并未减少，中国也是如此。煤炭的储备量非常之大，我们应该开始考虑把煤炭看作生物能源，因为如果我们继续视其为化学能源，或机械能源，我们会陷入大麻烦。
en:Here&#39;s your brute force approach. Once you getthrough your brute force approach, then you justrip off whole mountaintops. And you end up withthe single largest source of carbon emissions,which are coal-fired gas plants. That is probablynot the best use of bioenergy.As you think of what are the alternatives to thissystem — it&#39;s important to find alternativesbecause it turns out that the U.S. is dwindling inits petroleum reserves, but it is not dwindling inits coal reserves, nor is China. There are hugecoal reserves that are sitting out there, andwe&#39;ve got to start thinking of them as biologicalenergy, because if we keep treating them aschemical energy, or engineering energy, we&#39;regoing to be in deep doo-doo.
时间： 9:45
zh-cn:天然气也是类似的。天然气也是一种生物产品。当你想到天然气时，你会觉得很熟悉。开采天然气的方法是不同于采煤的。这种气体称为煤层甲烷气。为什么这个画面很有趣？因为如果煤炭真的是浓缩的植物体，那么你在不同的煤矿发现有不同的气体有的煤矿会爆炸而有的又不会，可能都是因为有些东西吃掉了另一些东西而产生气体。这是一个广为人知的现象（大笑）。你吃了某种东西后，会产生很多气体。那可能也是在生物进程中煤矿中发生的类似过程。如果这是真的，那么从煤炭中获取能源的方法就可以不必夷平整个山头，也可能不必燃烧煤炭。也许可以对煤炭进行某种生物处理，就像在农业中所做的那样。
en:Gas is a similar issue. Gas is also a biologicalproduct. And as you think of gas, well, you&#39;refamiliar with gas. And here&#39;s a different way ofmining coal.This is called coal bed methane. Why is thispicture interesting? Because if coal turns out tobe concentrated plant life, the reason why you mayget a differential in gas output between one mineand another — the reason why one mine may blow upand another one may not blow up — may be becausethere&#39;s stuff eating that stuff and producing gas.This is a well-known phenomenon. (Laughter) Youeat certain things, you produce a lot of gas. Itmay turn out that biological processes in coalmineshave the same process. If that is true, thenone of the ways of getting the energy out of coalmay not be to rip whole mountaintops off, and itmay not be to burn coal. It may be to have stuffprocess that coal in a biological fashion as youdid in agriculture.
时间：11:00
zh-cn:这才是生物能源的含义。而不是什么乙醇。并不是说要补贴几个公司，也不是进口玉米到爱荷华州，去喂饱那些已经建起来的乙醇工厂。而是要开始去理解发生在农业中的转变。从大规模外力的模式转为使用生物力量。在这么做的过程中，你可以使很多东西变得清洁，很快就可以做到。我们在这方面已经有了一些生产力的指标。如果你将蒸气打入煤矿或者油田，它们已经被开发了几十年，你可以获得明显的增产，比如产量增加8倍。这还只是最开始的步骤。
en:That is what bioenergy is. It is not ethanol. Itis not subsidies to a few companies. It is notimporting corn into Iowa because you&#39;ve built somany of these ethanol plants. It is beginning tounderstand the transition that occurred inagriculture, from brute force into biologicalforce. And in the measure that you can do that,you can clean some stuff, and you can clean itpretty quickly.We already have some indicators of productivity onthis stuff. OK, if you put steam into coal fieldsor petroleum fields that have been running fordecades, you can get a really substantialincrease, like an eight-fold increase, in youroutput. This is just the beginning stages of thisstuff.
时间：11:43
zh-cn:在你考虑生物材料时，这个人，就是他完成了对人类基因组测序的一部分工作，因为他的工作，基因和蛋白质数据库的数据量倍增，他为此走遍了全世界，他也在考虑你将如何构建这个体系。还有很多高人在考虑这个问题。他们走到一起成立了像Synthetic Genomics这样的公司，还有Cambria、Condon等公司，这些公司都在试图发现，你如何能够运用生物学原则来避免使用大规模的外力？请用以下的理念去考虑问题。把这事想象成为了某种特殊目的开始一项计划。把细胞想象成硬件。把基因想象成软件。在你以这种方式去想象生命的代码是可以互换的，可以变成能源，也可以变成食物，还可以变成纤维，还可以变成人，可以变成一系列的各种东西。然后你必须转换你的思维方法，去构思和设想能源问题，从一个完全不同于以往的角度。
en:And as you think of biomaterials, this guy — whodid part of the sequencing of the human genome,who just doubled the databases of genes andproteins known on earth by sailing around theworld — has been thinking about how you structurethis. And there&#39;s a series of smart peoplethinking about this. And they&#39;ve been puttingtogether companies like Synthetic Genomics, like,a Cambria, like Codon, and what those companies aretrying to do is to think of, how do you applybiological principles to avoid brute force?Think of it in the following terms. Think of it asbeginning to program stuff for specific purposes.Think of the cell as a hardware. Think of thegenes as a software. And in the measure that youbegin to think of life as code that isinterchangeable, that can become energy, that canbecome food, that can become fiber, that canbecome human beings, that can become a wholeseries of things, then you&#39;ve got to shift yourapproach as to how you&#39;re going to structure anddeal and think about energy in a very differentway.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:什么是有关这些东西的最重要的原则？我们应向何处去？这是这个星球上最温顺的庞然大物。他是你所见过的人里面最好的人。他的名字叫汉密尔顿-史密斯。他因发明如何切分基因而获得诺贝尔奖。这种基因称为限制性内切酶。他当时在霍普金斯，他是如此谦虚的一个人，在他获奖的那天，他的母亲问他说：“我不知道在霍普金斯还有另外一个Ham Smith。你知道他刚刚获得了诺贝尔奖么？”（大笑）我的意思是，这就是母亲。不过，他本人也正是这样的。你会发现他每天都在工作台那里，在用吸液管构建一些东西。他做的事情之一就是制造了这些东西。
en:What are the first principles of this stuff andwhere are we heading? This is one of the gentlegiants on the planet. He&#39;s one of the nicest humanbeings you&#39;ve ever met. His name is HamiltonSmith. He won the Nobel for figuring out how tocut genes — something called restriction enzymes.He was at Hopkins when he did this, and he&#39;s sucha modest guy that the day he won, his mothercalled him and said, &quot;I didn&#39;t realize there wasanother Ham Smith at Hopkins. Do you know he justwon the Nobel?&quot; (Laughter) I mean, that was Mom,but anyway, this guy is just a class act. You findhim at the bench every single day, working on apipette and building stuff. And one of the thingsthis guy just built are these things.
时间：13:36
zh-cn:这是什么？这是第一次移植的经过剥离的DNA，你从细胞里提取了整个DNA的运行体系，注入到不同的细胞，再把那个细胞培育成另一个物种。这个细胞已经生存了1个月。下个月你将看到很重要的东西，象这个一样重要。当你设想这个东西会给我们带来的影响的时候，我们正在开始的一种转化，不是那种享有很高的补贴的，将玉米转化为乙醇的过程，我们正在开始考虑把生物学用在能源方面。这种转化过程代价很高，不论从经济的角度看，还是从能源的角度来说。
en:What is this? This is the first transplant ofnaked DNA, where you take an entire DNA operatingsystem out of one cell, insert it into a differentcell, and have that cell boot up as a separatespecies. That&#39;s one month old. You will see stuffin the next month that will be just as importantas this stuff.And as you think about this stuff and what theimplications of this are, we&#39;re going to start notjust converting ethanol from corn with very highsubsidies. We&#39;re going to start thinking aboutbiology entering energy. It is very expensive toprocess this stuff, both in economic terms and inenergy terms.
时间：14:20
zh-cn:这是一种积聚在阿尔伯塔的油砂中的物质，大堆大堆的硫磺。因为我们在从油砂中分离石油的时候，要使用大量的能源进行蒸馏，用蒸汽分离这些物质——你同时会分离出硫磺来。轻质原油与重质原油的差别在于，它们的价格每桶相差14美元。这就是为什么你会看到这些堆的象金字塔般的硫磺。并且，这些东西的规模相当大。
en:This is what accumulates in the tar sands ofAlberta. These are sulfur blocks. Because as youseparate that petroleum from the sand, and use anenormous amount of energy inside that vapor —steam to separate this stuff — you also have toseparate out the sulfur. The difference betweenlight crude and heavy crude — well, it&#39;s about 14bucks a barrel. That&#39;s why you&#39;re building thesepyramids of sulfur blocks. And by the way, thescale on these things is pretty large.
时间：14:49
zh-cn:现在，如果你能够把做这部分工作消耗的能源减少的话，你就简化了整个体系，并且开始运用生物学原则于能源的生产。这将是联系各种新能源的桥梁，诸如风能的利用，太阳能的利用，以及核能的利用，等等。希望你今后就不需要在风光秀美的海边，在地震断层的附近建设新的核电厂。（大笑）这还仅仅是个设想。
en:Now, if you can take part of the energy contentout of doing this, you reduce the system, and youreally do start applying biological principles toenergy. This has to be a bridge to the point whereyou can get to wind, to the point where you canget to solar, to the point where you can get tonuclear — and hopefully you won&#39;t build the nextnuclear plant on a beautiful seashore next to anearthquake fault. (Laughter) Just a thought.
时间：15:21
zh-cn:与此同时，至少在今后的几十年里，唱主角的都是碳氢化合物。可以是石油，可以是天然气，可以是煤炭，都是我们的研究对象。我不想把这个演讲拖得太长，这里介绍一下目前的能源体系的发展。我们消耗的能源的百分之八十六是碳氢化合物。这意味着我们消耗物质的百分之八十六是植物、变形虫和其他这类物质演化而来的。那么这里就有一个环境保护的角色。还有一个可替代物质的角色，同时我们必须把其余的部分也做好。我们如何对待其余的那个比例是我们通向未来的桥梁。当我们把这看作是通向未来的桥梁时，有一件事必须认真思考：现在我们把大约三分之二的石油留在那些油井中。这样我们花费巨大的开支，把大部分的能源留在地下。当然，这样做需要更多的能源去获取其他能源。这个比值会变得很愚蠢，如果你取得的是乙醇的话。那样做，产出的能源与消耗的能源之比几乎就是一比一。这是在用一种很傻的做法管理这个体系。
en:But in the meantime, for the next decade at least,the name of the game is hydrocarbons. And be thatoil, be that gas, be that coal, this is what we&#39;redealing with. And before I make this talk toolong, here&#39;s what&#39;s happening in the currentenergy system.86 percent of the energy we consume arehydrocarbons. That means 86 percent of the stuff we&#39;reconsuming are probably processed plants andamoebas and the rest of the stuff. And there&#39;s arole in here for conservation. There&#39;s a role inhere for alternative stuff, but we&#39;ve also got toget that other portion right.How we deal with that other portion is our bridgeto the future. And as we think of this bridge tothe future, one of the things you should ponderis: we are leaving about two-thirds of the oil todayinside those wells. So we&#39;re spending an enormousamount of money and leaving most of the energydown there. Which, of course, requires more energyto go out and get energy. The ratios becomeidiotic by the time you get to ethanol. It mayeven be a one-to-one ratio on the energy input andthe energy output. That is a stupid way ofmanaging this system.
时间：16:35
zh-cn:最后一点，最后一张图表，我们必须做的事情之一是稳定石油价格。这就是石油价格的走势，对不对？这是一个很糟糕的体系，因为你的最低资本预期回收率设置的很低。人们想出了很好的太阳能板的设计，或者是利用风能或其他（新能源）的方式，猜猜会怎么样？石油价格跌破了最低点。那些公司只好破产，然后石油价格又重新上涨了。
en:Last point, last graph. One of the things thatwe&#39;ve got to do is to stabilize oil prices. Thisis what oil prices look like, OK?This is a very bad system because what happens isyour hurdle rate gets set very low. People come upwith really smart ideas for solar panels, or forwind, or for something else, and then guess what?The oil price goes through the floor. That companygoes out of business, and then you can bring theoil price back up.
时间：17:02
zh-cn:因此，我最后要提出一个温和的建议，让我们在欧洲和美国设定一个稳定的石油价格。怎么能做到呢？那么，我们可以在油价上加一项税——非收入税，基本理念是说在最近的20年中，石油价格将是——随便假设一个数字，35美元也好，40美元也罢。如果欧佩克的油价低于这个价格，我们就开征这项税。如果油价高于这个价格，这项税就取消。这样做对企业家有什么好处呢？对公司企业有什么好处呢？这可以告诉人们，如果你能以低于35美元或40美元的价格生产能源，或低于50美元一桶的价格生产能源，我们可以竞争——你就能赢得生意。我们不能让人们进入这样一种循环，（由于油价的波动）企业付不出研发费用而破产，这就等于让欧佩克操纵了石油替代品的研发使生物能源无法取得成功。谢谢。
en:So if I had one closing and modest suggestion,let&#39;s set a stable oil price in Europe and theUnited States. How do you do that? Well, let&#39;s puta tax on oil that is a non-revenue tax, and itbasically says for the next 20 years, the price ofoil will be — whatever you want, 35 bucks, 40bucks. If the OPEC price falls below that, we taxit. If the OPEC price goes above that, the taxgoes away.What does that do for entrepreneurs? What does itdo for companies? It tells people, if you canproduce energy for less than 35 bucks a barrel, orless than 40 bucks a barrel, or less than 50 bucksa barrel — let&#39;s debate it — you will have abusiness. But let&#39;s not put people through thiscycle where it doesn&#39;t pay to research becauseyour company will go out of business as OPECdrives alternatives and keeps bioenergy fromhappening. Thank you.
