时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想让你们想象一下，你是一个身处激烈战争中的士兵。也许你是一个罗马步兵或者中世纪的弓箭手,或者是一个祖鲁勇士。不管你是处在怎样的时代和战场，有些东西是相同的。你的肾上腺素上升，而你的行动源于那些最原始的条件反射，那种出于保护自己和战友并打败敌人的需求的条件反射。
en:So I&#39;d like you to imagine for a momentthat you&#39;re a soldierin the heat of battle.Maybe you&#39;re a Roman foot soldieror a medieval archeror maybe you&#39;re a Zulu warrior.Regardless of your time and place,there are some things that are constant.Your adrenaline is elevated,and your actions are stemmingfrom these deeply ingrained reflexes,reflexes rooted in a needto protect yourself and your sideand to defeat the enemy.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:现在，再想象一下扮演一个完全不同的角色，那就是侦察员。侦察员的工作不是攻击或者防守。侦察员的工作是认清形势。侦察员是那些走出营地去测定地形、识别出可能的障碍的人。侦察员也许很希望刚好在合适的位置有一座桥可以跨过某条河。但更重要的是，侦察员想要弄清楚那里到底有什么，越精确越好。在一支精良的队伍中，士兵和侦察员都是必不可少的。但是你也可以把它们各自想象为一种思维模式——一种关于我们如何在日常生活中处理信息和想法的比喻。今天我将要讨论的是不管是拥有好的判断力，做出正确的预测，还是做出好的决策，几乎都跟你处于哪种思维模式相关。
en:So now, I&#39;d like you to imagineplaying a very different role,that of the scout.The scout&#39;s job is notto attack or defend.The scout&#39;s job is to understand.The scout is the one going out,mapping the terrain,identifying potential obstacles.And the scout may hope to learnthat, say, there&#39;s a bridgein a convenient location across a river.But above all, the scoutwants to know what&#39;s really there,as accurately as possible.And in a real, actual army, boththe soldier and the scout are essential.But you can also think of eachof these roles as a mindset —a metaphor for how all of usprocess information and ideasin our daily lives.What I&#39;m going to argue todayis that having good judgment,making accurate predictions,making good decisions,is mostly about which mindset you&#39;re in.
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:为了举例说明这两种思维模式，我将带你们回到19世纪法国的一个地方。在那里，由这张看起来很普通的稿件，引发了历史上最大的政治丑闻之一。它是在1984年被法国总参谋部的军官发现的。被撕碎了扔在一个废纸篓里，但是当他们把它拼接起来后，发现他们中间有人在向德国出卖军事机密。
en:To illustrate these mindsets in action,I&#39;m going to take you backto 19th-century France,where this innocuous-lookingpiece of paperlaunched one of the biggestpolitical scandals in history.It was discovered in 1894by officers in the French general staff.It was torn up in a wastepaper basket,but when they pieced it back together,they discoveredthat someone in their rankshad been sellingmilitary secrets to Germany.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:因此他们开展了深入的调查，然后他们的怀疑很快集中到了这个人身上，阿尔弗勒德·德雷福斯。他没有过任何不光彩的记录，没做过什么坏事，也没有所谓的动机。但是德雷福斯是军队里那个级别中的唯一犹太军官，并且不幸的是，那时的法军非常地反犹太。他们将德雷福斯的笔迹跟那张纸上的对照，然后得出了笔迹一致的结论，尽管外面的笔迹鉴定专家对此持怀疑态度，但也于事无补。他们搜查了德雷福斯的寓所，寻找他从事间谍活动的蛛丝马迹。他们翻遍了他的文件，但一无所获。这使他们更加确信德雷福斯不仅有罪，而且还很狡猾，因为很明显在他们搜查之前他就隐藏了所有的证据。
en:So they launched a big investigation,and their suspicionsquickly converged on this man,Alfred Dreyfus.He had a sterling record,no past history of wrongdoing,no motive as far as they could tell.But Dreyfus was the onlyJewish officer at that rank in the army,and unfortunately at this time,the French Army was highly anti-Semitic.They compared Dreyfus&#39;s handwritingto that on the memoand concluded that it was a match,even though outsideprofessional handwriting expertswere much less confidentin the similarity,but never mind that.They went and searchedDreyfus&#39;s apartment,looking for any signs of espionage.They went through his files,and they didn&#39;t find anything.This just convinced them morethat Dreyfus was not only guilty,but sneaky as well, because clearlyhe had hidden all of the evidencebefore they had managed to get to it.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:接下来，他们审查了他的个人历史寻找任何能表明他有罪的细节。他们跟他的老师谈话。发现他在学校学过外语，这清楚地表明了一种想要在以后的生活中跟外国政府相勾结的愿望。老师还说德雷福斯出了名的记忆力好，这不是非常可疑吗？因为间谍需要记住很多东西。
en:Next, they went and lookedthrough his personal historyfor any incriminating details.They talked to his teachers,they found that he had studiedforeign languages in school,which clearly showed a desireto conspire with foreign governmentslater in life.His teachers also said that Dreyfuswas known for having a good memory,which was highly suspicious, right?You know, because a spyhas to remember a lot of things.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:因此经过审讯，德雷福斯被判有罪。然后，他们把他带到了公共广场，仪式性地撕下了他制服上的徽章，并折断了他的佩剑。这件事被称作德雷福斯冤案。他们判处他终身监禁，并将其押送到被称为魔鬼岛的地方服役，是个远离南美洲海岸贫瘠的岩石小岛。在那里，他一个人孤零零地生活，给法国政府写了一封又一封的信，乞求他们重审他的案子，并希望通过重审获得清白。但是在大多数情形下，法国政府都认为这件事已经结案。
en:So the case went to trial,and Dreyfus was found guilty.Afterwards, they took him outinto this public squareand ritualistically torehis insignia from his uniformand broke his sword in two.This was calledthe Degradation of Dreyfus.And they sentenced himto life imprisonmenton the aptly named Devil&#39;s Island,which is this barren rockoff the coast of South America.So there he went,and there he spent his days alone,writing letters and lettersto the French governmentbegging them to reopen his caseso they could discover his innocence.But for the most part,France considered the matter closed.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:在德雷福斯事件中让我真正感兴趣的一点是为什么这些军官会如此确信德雷福斯是有罪的。我是说，你可能以为他们是在给他设套，他们在故意地诬陷他。但是历史学家却不这样认为。据我们所知，这些军官由衷地相信德雷福斯是有罪的。这也就会使你感到好奇：如果在只有微不足道的证据的情况下我们就可以给一个人定罪，那么这对人类的思维来说意味着什么？
en:One thing that&#39;s really interestingto me about the Dreyfus Affairis this question of why the officerswere so convincedthat Dreyfus was guilty.I mean, you might even assumethat they were setting him up,that they were intentionally framing him.But historians don&#39;t thinkthat&#39;s what happened.As far as we can tell,the officers genuinely believedthat the case against Dreyfus was strong.Which makes you wonder:What does it say about the human mindthat we can find such paltry evidenceto be compelling enough to convict a man?
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:然而，这就是科学家称之为“动机性推理”的一个案例。正是这种存在于我们无意识的动机以及我们的欲望和恐惧，塑造了我们解读信息的方式。有些信息和想法感觉就像是我们的盟友。我们希望它们能赢。我们想要保护它们。还有些信息和想法感觉就像是敌人，我们就想要打垮它们。这就是为什么我把动机性推理称作“士兵型思维模式”。
en:Well, this is a case of what scientistscall &quot;motivated reasoning.&quot;It&#39;s this phenomenon in whichour unconscious motivations,our desires and fears,shape the way we interpret information.Some information, some ideas,feel like our allies.We want them to win.We want to defend them.And other informationor ideas are the enemy,and we want to shoot them down.So this is why I callmotivated reasoning, &quot;soldier mindset.&quot;
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:可能你们大部分人从来都没有做过以叛国罪去迫害一个法籍犹太军官这样的事，没错吧，但很可能你关注过体育或者政治新闻，因此你大概注意过，举个例子来说，当裁判判你支持的队伍犯规时，你会很积极地去找理由证明他的判罚是错的。但是当裁判判对方犯规时——太棒了！判得很正确，没必要深究了。也许你读过一些对于有关政策有争议的文章或研究报告，比如说关于死刑的。就像研究人员已经证实的一样，如果你支持死刑而研究的结果却表明它并不能有效减少犯罪，那么你会很积极地寻找各种理由去证明这项研究有不妥之处。但是如果它表明死刑能够有效减少犯罪，那你就会认可这项研究。反之，如果你反对死刑，也一样。
en:Probably most of you have never persecuteda French-Jewish officer for high treason,I assume,but maybe you&#39;ve followed sportsor politics, so you might have noticedthat when the referee judgesthat your team committed a foul,for example,you&#39;re highly motivatedto find reasons why he&#39;s wrong.But if he judges that the other teamcommitted a foul — awesome!That&#39;s a good call,let&#39;s not examine it too closely.Or, maybe you&#39;ve readan article or a studythat examined some controversial policy,like capital punishment.And, as researchers have demonstrated,if you support capital punishmentand the study showsthat it&#39;s not effective,then you&#39;re highly motivatedto find all the reasonswhy the study was poorly designed.But if it showsthat capital punishment works,it&#39;s a good study.And vice versa: if you don&#39;tsupport capital punishment, same thing.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:我们的判断无意识地受到个人喜好的强烈影响。而且这种现象是普遍存在的。它影响着我们如何看待健康和人际关系，如何决定投谁的票，以及怎样看待公平或道德。关于动机性推理或者说士兵型思维模式，最让我觉得可怕的一点是它受潜意识影响之深。我们认为自己是客观公正的，但结果却是毁掉了一个无辜者的一生。
en:Our judgment is stronglyinfluenced, unconsciously,by which side we want to win.And this is ubiquitous.This shapes how we thinkabout our health, our relationships,how we decide how to vote,what we consider fair or ethical.What&#39;s most scary to meabout motivated reasoningor soldier mindset,is how unconscious it is.We can think we&#39;re beingobjective and fair-mindedand still wind up ruining the lifeof an innocent man.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:然而，幸运的是对于德雷福斯来说，一切还没结束。这是皮卡尔上校。他是法军中的另一个高级军官，像大多数人一样，他也认为德雷福斯有罪。跟军队中大多数人也一样，他至少表面上是反犹太的。但是在某个时间点上，皮卡尔开始怀疑：“如果我们所有人都错怪了德雷福斯呢？”当时的情况是，他发现了一些证据表明德国间谍的活动还在继续，即便是在德雷福斯入狱之后。他还发现军队中另一个军官的笔迹跟那张纸上的笔迹完全匹配，比德雷福斯的笔迹更加相符。因此他带着这些疑点找到他的上级，令人沮丧的是，他们要么不在乎，要么提出一些精心编造，想当然的理由去解释他的发现，比如说，“嗯，你的发现刚好证明另一个间谍模仿了德雷福斯的笔迹，并且接替了德雷福斯的间谍位置。但是德雷福斯仍然是有罪的。”最终，皮卡尔让德雷福斯重获清白。但是花了他10年的时间，而且在这期间他自己也以对军队不忠的罪名被投入了监狱。
en:However, fortunately for Dreyfus,his story is not over.This is Colonel Picquart.He&#39;s another high-ranking officerin the French Army,and like most people,he assumed Dreyfus was guilty.Also like most people in the army,he was at least casually anti-Semitic.But at a certain point,Picquart began to suspect:&quot;What if we&#39;re all wrong about Dreyfus?&quot;What happened was,he had discovered evidencethat the spying for Germany had continued,even after Dreyfus was in prison.And he had also discoveredthat another officer in the armyhad handwriting that perfectlymatched the memo,much closer than Dreyfus&#39;s handwriting.So he brought these discoveriesto his superiors,but to his dismay,they either didn&#39;t careor came up with elaborate rationalizationsto explain his findings,like, &quot;Well, all you&#39;ve really shown,Picquart, is that there&#39;s another spywho learned how to mimicDreyfus&#39;s handwriting,and he picked up the torch of spyingafter Dreyfus left.But Dreyfus is still guilty.&quot;Eventually, Picquart managedto get Dreyfus exonerated.But it took him 10 years,and for part of that time,he himself was in prisonfor the crime of disloyalty to the army.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:很多人觉得，在这个故事中皮卡尔算不上真正的英雄，因为他反犹太，我也同意这是他不好的一点。但就我个人而言，正是因为他反犹太，才使得他的行为更令人软佩，因为他跟那些同僚带有相同的偏见，也有相同的理由去倾向于有罪结论，但是他那种找出并维护真相的动力战胜了一切。
en:A lot of people feel like Picquartcan&#39;t really be the hero of this storybecause he was an anti-Semiteand that&#39;s bad, which I agree with.But personally, for me,the fact that Picquart was anti-Semiticactually makes his actions more admirable,because he had the same prejudices,the same reasons to be biasedas his fellow officers,but his motivation to find the truthand uphold it trumped all of that.
时间： 8:06
zh-cn:所以对我而言，皮卡尔就是我称之为“侦察员型思维模式”中的典型代表。这不是非让两个想法分出输赢不可，而是尽可能诚实和准确地找出事实真相的一种驱动力，即使真相并不那么令人赏心悦目。这种思维模式是我个人所推崇的。过去几年我一直在调查并想找出侦察员型思维模式的成因。为什么有些人，至少在有些时候，能够去掉自己内心的歧视、偏见和倾向，而是尽可能尝试着客观地找出事实和证据。
en:So to me,Picquart is a poster childfor what I call &quot;scout mindset.&quot;It&#39;s the drive not to makeone idea win or another lose,but just to see what&#39;s really thereas honestly and accurately as you can,even if it&#39;s not prettyor convenient or pleasant.This mindset is whatI&#39;m personally passionate about.And I&#39;ve spent the last few yearsexamining and trying to figure outwhat causes scout mindset.Why are some people, sometimes at least,able to cut through their own prejudicesand biases and motivationsand just try to see the factsand the evidenceas objectively as they can?
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:而答案就是情感。就像士兵型思维模式是出于像防御性和部落主义这样的情感，侦察员型思维模式也一样。只不过是来源于不同的情感。例如，侦察员都有很强的好奇心。他们更可能会因为获得新的信息或渴望解开一个谜题而感到开心。他们会对那些与他们的预期不相符的事情更感兴趣。侦察员也拥有不同的价值观。他们可能会觉得检验自己的信仰是一件善事，而可能不会说那些改变想法的人看起来很懦弱。总之，侦察员是以事实为根据的，也就是说他们的自我价值观不是跟他们在某个事件上的对错绑在一起的。所以他们可能相信死刑能减少犯罪。但如果研究表明它不能，他们可能会说“呵，看起来是我错了，但这并不说明我坏或者蠢。”
en:And the answer is emotional.So, just as soldier mindsetis rooted in emotionslike defensiveness or tribalism,scout mindset is, too.It&#39;s just rooted in different emotions.For example, scouts are curious.They&#39;re more likely to saythey feel pleasurewhen they learn new informationor an itch to solve a puzzle.They&#39;re more likely to feel intriguedwhen they encounter somethingthat contradicts their expectations.Scouts also have different values.They&#39;re more likely to saythey think it&#39;s virtuousto test your own beliefs,and they&#39;re less likely to saythat someone who changes his mindseems weak.And above all, scouts are grounded,which means their self-worth as a personisn&#39;t tied to how right or wrongthey are about any particular topic.So they can believethat capital punishment works.If studies come out showingthat it doesn&#39;t, they can say,&quot;Huh. Looks like I might be wrong.Doesn&#39;t mean I&#39;m bad or stupid.&quot;
时间： 9:52
zh-cn:这就是研究人员所发现的特征——而且我也发现了——可以预测好的判断。而我想要强调的关于这些特征的关键点是它们根本上来说跟你有多聪明或者你知道多少无关。事实上，它们跟智商完全无关。它们跟你的感觉有关。我要引用圣埃克苏佩里的一句话。他是《小王子》的作者。他说，“如果你想造一艘船，不要雇人去收集木头，不要发号施令，也不要分配任务，而是去激发他们对海洋的渴望”。
en:This cluster of traitsis what researchers have found —and I&#39;ve also found anecdotally —predicts good judgment.And the key takeaway I wantto leave you with about those traitsis that they&#39;re primarilynot about how smart you areor about how much you know.In fact, they don&#39;t correlatevery much with IQ at all.They&#39;re about how you feel.There&#39;s a quote that I keepcoming back to, by Saint-Exupéry.He&#39;s the author of &quot;The Little Prince.&quot;He said, &quot;If you want to build a ship,don&#39;t drum up your mento collect wood and give ordersand distribute the work.Instead, teach them to yearnfor the vast and endless sea.&quot;
时间：10:37
zh-cn:换句话说，我认为，如果我们真的想提高判断力，不管是作为个人还是作为社会，我们最需要的不是更多逻辑上，修辞上、概率上或者经济上的指导，即便这些东西也都很有价值。而我们要用好这些原理，最需要的就是侦察员型思维模式。我们需要改变我们感觉事物的方式。当我们注意到自己可能在某件事上出错了的时候，我们要感到自豪而不是羞愧。当我们遇到一些与我们的信仰相冲突的信息时，我们要学会感到好奇而不是抵触。
en:In other words, I claim,if we really want to improveour judgment as individualsand as societies,what we need mostis not more instruction in logicor rhetoric or probability or economics,even though those thingsare quite valuable.But what we most needto use those principles wellis scout mindset.We need to change the way we feel.We need to learn how to feel proudinstead of ashamedwhen we notice we mighthave been wrong about something.We need to learn how to feel intriguedinstead of defensivewhen we encounter some informationthat contradicts our beliefs.
时间：11:15
zh-cn:因此我想要留给你们的问题是：你最渴望什么？你是渴望保护你的信仰？还是渴望尽自己所能去看清这个世界？
en:So the question I wantto leave you with is:What do you most yearn for?Do you yearn to defend your own beliefs?Or do you yearn to see the worldas clearly as you possibly can?
时间：11:29
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：11:30
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
