时间： 0:12
zh-cn:在我办公室的桌上，有一个小瓷罐是我在大学的时候自己做的。日本乐烧，一种陶瓷。是几个世纪以前日本用于制作茶道会的碗我们看到的这一个有四百多年的历史每一个，都是用捏或雕的手法做出来尽管如此做出的陶器不尽完美，但这种不完美正是人们追求的
en:On my desk in my office, I keep a small clay potthat I made in college. It&#39;s raku, which is a kind of potterythat began in Japan centuries ago as a way ofmaking bowls for the Japanese tea ceremony.This one is more than 400 years old.Each one was pinched or carved out of a ball of clay,and it was the imperfections that people cherished.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:乐烧需要在火里烧制8-10小时我上周刚把这个乐烧从窑里取出而窑还需要一两天才能冷却下来而乐烧则比它快得多，你把它取出窑后过15分钟，它就降至1500度一旦你看见里面的釉融化，内部变得光泽，你就将瓷器翻转用这种长长的钳子夹住在日本，烧红的罐子会直接浸入到一种绿茶溶液中你可以想象那种蒸汽是什么样的味道但在美国，我们有所改进我们把它置于易燃的锯末之中，接着就得用一个垃圾桶往上面一盖，浓烟滚滚回到家里时，衣服上都是烟味
en:Everyday pots like this cup take eight to 10 hours to fire.I just took this out of the kiln last week, and the kiln itselftakes another day or two to cool down, but rakuis really fast. You do it outside, and you take the kilnup to temperature. In 15 minutes, it goes to 1,500 degrees,and as soon as you see that the glaze has melted inside,you can see that faint sheen, you turn the kiln off,and you reach in with these long metal tongs,you grab the pot, and in Japan, this red-hot potwould be immediately immersed in a solution of green tea,and you can imagine what that steam would smell like.But here in the United States, we ramp up the dramaa little bit, and we drop our pots into sawdust,which catches on fire, and you take a garbage pail,and you put it on top, and smoke starts pouring out.I would come home with my clothes reeking of woodsmoke.
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:我喜爱乐烧是因为它让我接触到原始的素材我捏出形状，选择釉料可之后我要让它经受火和烟的考验当结果来临的时候是多么让人惊喜呀例如这种细小的开片，布满整个瓷器这是因为乐烧从1500度降到室温不过才用短短几分钟
en:I love raku because it allows me to play with the elements.I can shape a pot out of clay and choose a glaze,but then I have to let it go to the fire and the smoke,and what&#39;s wonderful is the surprises that happen,like this crackle pattern, because it&#39;s really stressfulon these pots. They go from 1,500 degreesto room temperature in the space of just a minute.
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:乐烧是创造过程的一个美妙比喻很多事情你可以控制但另一些你只能任其发展这种情形总是发生，无论是我在电台做节目或是在家与未成年的孩子们商谈
en:Raku is a wonderful metaphor for the process of creativity.I find in so many things that tension betweenwhat I can control and what I have to let gohappens all the time, whether I&#39;m creating a new radio showor just at home negotiating with my teenage sons.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:每当我坐下来开始写一本关于创造力的书我感觉这些步骤正在回溯经常不得不回到开头，不得不回到那些几百个从不同的艺术家，作者，制片音乐那里听来的故事从这些故事中，我意识到创造力来自于平时的积累的也许比你想象的更多，包括顺其自然本以为它会碎掉的，但却完好（笑）看似你放弃，却又似收获了什么因为在这个过程中，创造力往往从那些断点成长起来
en:When I sat down to write a book about creativity,I realized that the steps were reversed.I had to let go at the very beginning, and I had toimmerse myself in the stories of hundreds of artistsand writers and musicians and filmmakers, and as I listenedto these stories, I realized that creativitygrows out of everyday experiencesmore often than you might think, includingletting go.It was supposed to break, but that&#39;s okay. (Laughter) (Laughs)That&#39;s part of the letting go, is sometimes it happensand sometimes it doesn&#39;t, because creativity also growsfrom the broken places.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:兼听则明，这是告诉我们要从故事里学到东西。我想给你们讲一个关于工作，娱乐和生活中四个方面的故事需要投入才能使我们的创造力枝繁叶茂第一点是关于我们想些什么看起来非常容易，但其实很难我们如何观察周围的世界许多艺术家说需要开放的心灵去体验，但实际上如果你事先就有些条条框框吸引了你的全部注意，这是很难做到的。
en:The best way to learn about anythingis through stories, and so I want to tell you a storyabout work and play and about four aspects of lifethat we need to embracein order for our own creativity to flourish.The first embrace is something that we think,&quot;Oh, this is very easy,&quot; but it&#39;s actually getting harder,and that&#39;s paying attention to the world around us.So many artists speak about needing to be open,to embrace experience, and that&#39;s hard to do whenyou have a lighted rectangle in your pocket thattakes all of your focus.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:制片家Mira Nair谈到小时候在印度的一个小镇成长的故事，小镇名叫Bhubaneswar,这位于她城镇一座寺庙的图像
en:The filmmaker Mira Nair speaks about growing upin a small town in India. Its name is Bhubaneswar,and here&#39;s a picture of one of the temples in her town.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:小镇里，大约有2000多个寺庙我们玩耍，打板球在废墟中长大。激励我最终走上电影制片这条道路的事情是那些大篷车的剧团，他们的巡回演出穿越整个城镇我总会追上去看他们出色的表演，二个人在学校的操场上，就可以上演善良与邪恶虽没有道具，但却有许许多多的激情。如同印度大麻，效果奇妙民间故事中的“摩诃婆罗多”和“罗摩衍那”两部圣经，史诗，告诉我们印度的一切Jatra民间剧场让我知道了什么是我最想要的和最想追求的
en:Mira Nair: In this little town, there were like 2,000 temples.We played cricket all the time. We kind of grew upin the rubble. The major thing that inspired me,that led me on this path, that made me a filmmaker eventually,was traveling folk theater that would come through the townand I would go off and see these great battlesof good and evil by two people in a school fieldwith no props but with a lot of, you know,passion, and hashish as well, and it was amazing.You know, the folk tales of Mahabharata and Ramayana,the two holy books, the epics that everything comes out ofin India, they say. After seeing that Jatra, the folk theater,I knew I wanted to get on, you know, and perform.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:这难道不是一个奇妙的故事吗？每天你都能看到这类小歇的场所学校操场，上演着善良与邪恶激情与大麻。Mira Nair不过是一个年轻女孩和其他数千观众一同看演出不同的是她心有所想，她敞开胸怀去接受启发，点亮她心智的一刻如同她告诉大家的，走向一条成功的电影制片家的道路所以，开放的态度也行会改变你的人生这是你需要关注的第一件事情
en:Julie Burstein: Isn&#39;t that a wonderful story?You can see the sort of break in the everyday.There they are in the school fields, but it&#39;s good and evil,and passion and hashish. And Mira Nair was a young girlwith thousands of other people watching this performance,but she was ready. She was ready to open upto what it sparked in her, and it led her,as she said, down this path to becomean award-winning filmmaker.So being open for that experience that might change youis the first thing we need to embrace.
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:艺术家也谈到某些他们最震撼的作品是来自于生活中最困难的磨难小说家Richard Ford提到他从小到大都在与之斗争的挑战因为他有严重的阅读障碍
en:Artists also speak about how some of their most powerful workcomes out of the parts of life that are most difficult.The novelist Richard Ford speaks abouta childhood challenge that continues to be somethinghe wrestles with today. He&#39;s severely dyslexic.
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:我学习阅读极慢。整个学校期间只可以说读了很少的部分直到现在，仍然不会快速默读只能大声念但阅读障碍也给我带来许多好处因为当我最终接受了不得不慢慢读书的事实我发现我的 慢使得我有时间去体悟语言所具有的神韵语句并不只是信息语言的各种要素，句子，标点，语调怎样用词，停顿断句。你知道，因为我是严重的阅读障碍我基本不会读，不得不慢慢来真的很慢，因此我在这些句子之中停留徘徊，也正因此，我感受到语言的别样魅力这才使我成为小说家
en:Richard Ford: I was slow to learn to read, went all the waythrough school not really reading more than the minimum,and still to this day can&#39;t read silentlymuch faster than I can read aloud,but there were a lot of benefits to being dyslexic for mebecause when I finally did reconcile myself to how slowI was going to have to do it, then I think I came very slowlyinto an appreciation of all of those qualities of languageand of sentences that are not just the cognitiveaspects of language: the syncopations, the sounds of words,what words look like, where paragraphs break,where lines break. I mean, I wasn&#39;t so badly dyslexic thatI was disabled from reading. I just had to do itreally slowly, and as I did, lingering on those sentencesas I had to linger, I fell heir to language&#39;s other qualities,which I think has helped me write sentences.
时间： 6:52
zh-cn:如此震撼。RichardFord， Pulitzer奖获得者，居然说是阅读障碍帮助他写出东西他不得不直面他的挑战，拥抱困难我这样形容；他并不需要克服阅读困难症需要的是通过从中学习，学习如何感受语言的韵律
en:JB: It&#39;s so powerful. Richard Ford, who&#39;s won the Pulitzer Prize,says that dyslexia helped him write sentences.He had to embrace this challenge, and I use that wordintentionally. He didn&#39;t have to overcome dyslexia.He had to learn from it. He had to learn to hear the musicin language.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:艺术家们也谈论如何克服极限突破自我，甚至拿自己达不到的要求来考核和激励通往超越之路雕塑家Richard Serra谈到他年轻时候，想做一名画家他从学校毕业后居住在Florence。当他在florence时，曾去Madrid旅行在那里，他在Prado看到了西班牙画家 Diego Velázquez这是源自1656年的画，被称为 Las Menias画的是小公主和她的侍女，如果你仔细就会发现在那个金发公主的肩膀上方，有一面镜子映射出公主的父母，西班牙的国王和王后他们也许正站在你现在所在的位置上注视着这幅画正如往常，Velázquez把他自己也画在画里他站在左边，一只手拿着画笔另一手端着调色板
en:Artists also speak about how pushing up againstthe limits of what they can do, sometimes pushinginto what they can&#39;t do, helps them focuson finding their own voice.The sculptor Richard Serra talks about how,as a young artist, he thought he was a painter,and he lived in Florence after graduate school.While he was there, he traveled to Madrid,where he went to the Prado to see this pictureby the Spanish painter Diego Velázquez.It&#39;s from 1656, and it&#39;s called &quot;Las Meninas,&quot;and it&#39;s the picture of a little princessand her ladies-in-waiting, and if you look overthat little blonde princess&#39;s shoulder, you&#39;ll see a mirror,and reflected in it are her parents, the King and Queenof Spain, who would be standing where you might standto look at the picture.As he often did, Velázquez put himself in this painting too.He&#39;s standing on the left with his paintbrush in one handand his palette in the other.
时间： 8:25
zh-cn:Richard Serra: 我站在那里呆呆的注视着我发现画家Velázquez也在注视着我我想：“噢，我也是画中的一员”我自觉自己不能画到这样的境界当时我正在我绘画生涯的计时终点我那些信手涂鸦的作品什么都不是，这样是不会有所成的。回到住处把我的画全部扔进了Arno河，漫无头绪
en:Richard Serra: I was standing there looking at it,and I realized that Velázquez was looking at me,and I thought, &quot;Oh. I&#39;m the subject of the painting.&quot;And I thought, &quot;I&#39;m not going to be able to do that painting.&quot;I was to the point where I was using a stopwatchand painting squares out of randomness,and I wasn&#39;t getting anywhere. So I went back and dumpedall my paintings in the Arno, and I thought, I&#39;m going to just start playing around.
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:语气是这样轻描淡写，你可能都会忽略他从一幅300多年前的绘画中悟出来自己做不到明智的转行并把自己以前的所谓作品统统扔进河里从那一刻起 Richard Serra 撒手绘画但他并没有撒手艺术，他后来移居纽约他列出来一串动词滚，折叠，封口一百多个，正如他自己所说漫无头绪，四处折腾他手边的材料他把一大块铁皮拿来又滚又叠，橡胶也一样当找到他心灵解脱的那一刻他做成了这个，陈列在当代艺术馆Richard Serra 不得不放弃绘画为了踏上这个顽皮的探索并最终因为他的作品而成名巨大的曲线拷问着我们的时感和动感让你在雕塑中体验Richard Serra做到了他在绘画中做不到的东西他把我们也包含在他的作品里面挑战，经历，极限太多的事情需要我们去拥抱创造力才会蓬勃发展。
en:JB: Richard Serra says that so nonchalantly, you mighthave missed it. He went and saw this painting by a guywho&#39;d been dead for 300 years, and realized,&quot;I can&#39;t do that,&quot; and so Richard Serra went backto his studio in Florence, picked up all of his workup to that point, and threw it in a river.Richard Serra let go of painting at that moment,but he didn&#39;t let go of art. He moved to New York City,and he put together a list of verbs— to roll, to crease, to fold —more than a hundred of them, and as he said,he just started playing around. He did these thingsto all kinds of material. He would take a huge sheet of leadand roll it up and unroll it. He would do the same thingto rubber, and when he got to the direction &quot;to lift,&quot;he created this, which is in the Museum of Modern Art.Richard Serra had to let go of paintingin order to embark on this playful explorationthat led him to the work that he&#39;s known for today:huge curves of steel that require our time and motionto experience. In sculpture,Richard Serra is able to do what he couldn&#39;t do in painting.He makes us the subject of his art.So experience and challengeand limitations are all things we need to embracefor creativity to flourish.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:这是第四个方面，也是最难的一面从失落中找到回归最古老和最永恒的人类经验是可贵资源。站在那个高度看我们目所能及的地方和心所能及的地方正视失败，体验心碎无论是在战争中，还是直面死亡这是一个心理中艰难的空间站教育家Parker Palmer 称之为“凄美”悲剧不仅因为伤痛，还因为不可避免我的朋友 Dick Nodel喜欢这样说“绷紧你的心弦，去演奏华丽的乐章。”
en:There&#39;s a fourth embrace, and it&#39;s the hardest.It&#39;s the embrace of loss,the oldest and most constant of human experiences.In order to create, we have to stand in that spacebetween what we see in the world and what we hope for,looking squarely at rejection, at heartbreak,at war, at death.That&#39;s a tough space to stand in.The educator Parker Palmer calls it &quot;the tragic gap,&quot;tragic not because it&#39;s sad but because it&#39;s inevitable,and my friend Dick Nodel likes to say,&quot;You can hold that tension like a violin stringand make something beautiful.&quot;
时间：11:08
zh-cn:这种张力反映在摄影师Joel Meyerowitz的作品里他由于擅长城市摄影而被众人所知那些凝固下来的时刻那些美丽魅力的照片街道，丘陵，海岬，市镇和幻影Joel 是纽约人，干摄影棚很多年坐落在Chelsea， 笔直的可见市中心那里有世贸大厦。他喜爱的目标他拍摄过大厦每种光线的照片你们都知道后来的故事9.11时候，Joel不在纽约但他飞奔而回，直奔目的地废墟
en:That tension resonates in the work of the photographerJoel Meyerowitz, who at the beginning of his career wasknown for his street photography, for capturing a momenton the street, and also for his beautiful photographsof landscapes — of Tuscany, of Cape Cod,of light.Joel is a New Yorker, and his studio for many yearswas in Chelsea, with a straight view downtownto the World Trade Center, and he photographedthose buildings in every sort of light.You know where this story goes.On 9/11, Joel wasn&#39;t in New York. He was out of town,but he raced back to the city, and raced down to the siteof the destruction.
时间：11:55
zh-cn:Joel Meyerowitz:像所有其他人一样我站在Chambers的警戒线外在Greenwich，我可以看见烟雾滚滚一片废墟中，我举起我的相机偷偷的，看我能否看见什么警察来了，一个女警，敲敲我的肩膀“不许拍照！”她真像是一拳敲醒了睡梦中的我她提醒了我应该做的事情，我想当我问为什么不许，她说“这是犯罪现场，禁止拍照。”我问；如果我是新闻记者怎样？她指着一旁说；“看，都在那边。”一个街区远的地方，新闻采访团被圈在一个小圈子里我问：“什么时候才允许进来？”她答：“也行永远不会。”我清楚的记得，我走开了好像挨了一棒，有点屈辱我想，“如果没有照片，就没有记录，我们需要记录，我想，”我一定要记录下来我会发现一个可行的办法，我不要看到这段历史消失。“
en:Joel Meyerowitz: And like all the other passersby,I stood outside the chain link fence on Chambersand Greenwich, and all I could see was the smokeand a little bit of rubble, and I raised my camerato take a peek, just to see if there was something to see,and some cop, a lady cop, hit me on my shoulder,and said, &quot;Hey, no pictures!&quot;And it was such a blow that it woke me up,in the way that it was meant to be, I guess.And when I asked her why no pictures, she said,&quot;It&#39;s a crime scene. No photographs allowed.&quot;And I asked her, &quot;What would happen if I was a memberof the press?&quot; And she told me,&quot;Oh, look back there,&quot; and back a block was the press corpstied up in a little penned-in area,and I said, &quot;Well, when do they go in?&quot;and she said, &quot;Probably never.&quot;And as I walked away from that, I had this crystallization,probably from the blow, because it was an insult in a way.I thought, &quot;Oh, if there&#39;s no pictures,then there&#39;ll be no record. We need a record.&quot;And I thought, &quot;I&#39;m gonna make that record.I&#39;ll find a way to get in, because I don&#39;t want tosee this history disappear.&quot;
时间：13:02
zh-cn:他做到了。他说服了他能想到的一切关系得到一张进入废墟的通行证后来的九个月里，几乎每一天，他都在现场现在看到这些照片，仿佛带我回到那些连衣服上都充满了烟土味夜里下班回家的日子我的办公室也离世贸大厦不远有些照片很漂亮我们猜想，是不是磨难才使得 Joel Meyerowitz从大灾难中找出了它凄美的一面
en:JB: He did. He pulled in every favor he could,and got a pass into the World Trade Center site,where he photographed for nine months almost every day.Looking at these photographs today brings backthe smell of smoke that lingered on my clotheswhen I went home to my family at night.My office was just a few blocks away.But some of these photographs are beautiful,and we wondered, was it difficult for Joel Meyerowitzto make such beauty out of such devastation?
时间：13:36
zh-cn:你想，我的意思是说，丑恶，暴力悲剧，恐怖充满整个事件，但是本质上，这也是历史的瞬间烟尘散去，断脊残墙如同其他很多废墟一样如同古罗马斗兽场，或某所残存的教堂衬托在蓝天白云下，让你思考有一个下午我坐在那儿粉色的夕阳，淡淡的暮色尘雾站立在废墟中良久，我重新发现审视我们的自然遗产和它内在的本质时间为证伤口平复天地万物，只有时间永恒她不会停下脚步而岁月匆匆，一切都是过客我并不是浪漫主义者，我很现实现实是，伍尔沃斯大楼一丝薄雾中，看似一些虚渺的网格从舞台飘过，渐变红色原来是楼下喷雾的泉眼与暮色中夕阳的光线交织又在冷光灯的照耀下，变得冷绿我感叹；”天呀，谁做梦能想到？“现实是我看到了立此为证
en:JM: Well, you know, ugly, I mean, powerfuland tragic and horrific and everything, butit was also as, in nature, an enormous eventthat was transformed after the fact into this residue,and like many other ruins— you go to the ruins of the Colosseum or the ruins of a cathedral someplace —and they take on a new meaning when you watch the weather.I mean, there were afternoons I was down there,and the light goes pink and there&#39;s a mist in the airand you&#39;re standing in the rubble, and I found myselfrecognizing both the inherent beauty of natureand the fact that nature, as time,is erasing this wound.Time is unstoppable, and it transforms the event.It gets further and further away from the day,and light and seasons temper it in some way,and it&#39;s not that I&#39;m a romantic. I&#39;m really a realist.The reality is, there&#39;s the Woolworth Buildingin a veil of smoke from the site, but it&#39;s now like a scrimacross a theater, and it&#39;s turning pink,you know, and down below there are hoses spraying,and the lights have come on for the evening, and the wateris turning acid green because the sodium lamps are on,and I&#39;m thinking, &quot;My God, who could dream this up?&quot;But the fact is, I&#39;m there, it looks like that,you have to take a picture.
时间：15:08
zh-cn:立此为证！这种使命感和紧迫感，使得Joel的故事感动了大家每次我见到Joel Meyerowitz，我告诉他我很钦佩他充满激情的固执，他的决心和他冲破种种阻碍去拍摄历史的勇气他笑道；”我是很固执，但更重要的是我充满了乐观精神。“
en:JB: You have to take a picture. That sense of urgency,of the need to get to work, is so powerful in Joel&#39;s story.When I saw Joel Meyerowitz recently, I told him how muchI admired his passionate obstinacy, his determinationto push through all the bureaucratic red tape to get to work,and he laughed, and he said, &quot;I&#39;m stubborn,but I think what&#39;s more importantis my passionate optimism.&quot;
时间：15:37
zh-cn:第一次我面对听众讲述这些故事的时候，有人举手：”所有这些艺术家都是谈他们的工作并不是他们的艺术，这也让我想到我的工作创造力就在哪儿，虽然我不是艺术家。“他说得对，我们都在与命运角力用我们的经验，直面挑战，极限和损失创造力必不可少不管是否我们是科学家或教师父母或企业家。
en:The first time I told these stories, a man in the audienceraised his hand and said, &quot;All these artists talk abouttheir work, not their art, which has got me thinking aboutmy work and where the creativity is there,and I&#39;m not an artist.&quot; He&#39;s right. We all wrestlewith experience and challenge, limits and loss.Creativity is essential to all of us,whether we&#39;re scientists or teachers,parents or entrepreneurs.
时间：16:09
zh-cn:在结束之际，我向你介绍另一个日本茶碗它存放在华盛顿的 Freer Gallery艺术馆一百多年历史，不过你仍然可以看见制作者留下的指纹你也可以看见，它实际上已经碎了一百多年中的某一天有人重新修补了它但他并没有去隐藏裂纹而是夸张了裂纹，用金漆描过。拥有这些裂纹，却使得它更漂亮甚至比原来还好看看着这些裂缝，仿佛在述说过去和未来的故事生命诞生和消失的周期获取或是放手一切都可以重新来过。谢谢大家 （鼓掌）
en:I want to leave you with anotherimage of a Japanese tea bowl. This oneis at the Freer Gallery in Washington, D.C.It&#39;s more than a hundred years old and you can still seethe fingermarks where the potter pinched it.But as you can also see, this one did breakat some point in its hundred years.But the person who put it back together,instead of hiding the cracks,decided to emphasize them, using gold lacquer to repair it.This bowl is more beautiful now, having been broken,than it was when it was first made,and we can look at those cracks, becausethey tell the story that we all live,of the cycle of creation and destruction,of control and letting go, of picking up the piecesand making something new.Thank you. (Applause)
