时间： 0:11
zh-cn:非法野生动物买卖是危害巴西动物的主要威胁，尤其是鸟类的买卖，它主要供应给宠物市场。每个月都有上千的动物从大自然中被掠走，然后被卖到远离故栖的地方，它们主要被卖至里约热内卢和圣保罗。
en:Illegal wildlife trade in Brazilis one of the major threats against our fauna,especially birds,and mainly to supply the pet marketwith thousands of animals taken from nature every month,and transported far from their origins,to be sold mainly in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:据估计巴西的各种非法野生动物买卖每年会从大自然中掠走大约3千8百万只动物，总价值在20亿美元左右。警察拦截住那些装着活生生动物的货物那些货物本是用于供应宠物市场的或是直接从那些人家里把动物救出来。我们就是这样每个月拯救成千的被抓走的动物。
en:It is estimated thatall kinds of illegal wildlife trade in Brazilwithdraw from naturealmost 38 million animals every year,a business worth almost two billion dollars.The police interceptsthese huge cargos with live animals,intended to supply the pet market,or they seize the animals directly from the people&#39;s houses,and this is how we end up, every month,with thousands of seized animals.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:对于发生在动物身上的事，我们可以跟着Brad来理解。在许多人的眼里，在动物被救走后，他们会说，“耶，正义得到了声张。（他们认为）会有好心人带走这些可爱的，受到不公待遇的动物从那些罪恶的走私者手中拯救了它们之后大家都幸福的生活着。&quot;但是事实呢？ 其实不是这样的。这其实是许多问题的开端。因为我们必须要知道要怎么处理这些动物
en:And for us to understand what happens with them,we&#39;re going to follow Brad.In the eyes of many people,after the animals are seized,they say, &quot;Yay, justice has been served.The good guys arrived,took the cute, mistreated animalsfrom the hands of the evil traffickers,and everyone lived happily ever after.&quot;But did they? Actually, no,and this is where many of our problems begin.Because we have to figure outwhat to do with all these animals.
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:在巴西，它们通常是最先运给政府的分类设施中心的，在大部分的情况下，在分类设施中心中的处境与在走私者处一样糟糕。在2002年，这些中心收到了45000只动物。其中，有37000只是鸟类。据估计，警察们拯救了被走私鸟类总额的5%。它们中有以一些幸运儿，比如Brad在获救后去了康复中心在那里，它们受到了精心照顾。它们被训练如何飞行。学习如何在大自然中识别食物。另外，它们也学着社交，与同一类的其它个体进行交往。（笑声）
en:In Brazil, they are usually first sentto governmental triage facilities,in which most of the cases,the conditions are as bad aswith the traffickers.In 2002, these centers received45,000 animals,of which 37,000 were birds.And the police estimates that we seizeonly five percent of what&#39;s being trafficked.Some lucky ones — and among them, Brad —go to serious rehabilitation centers after that.And in these places they are cared for.They train their flying,they learn how to recognize the food they will find in nature,and they are able to socializewith others from the same species.(Laughter)
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:但是后来呢？巴西野鸟协会，因为我们现在仅是在讲鸟，这一学会说我们知道的知识太少对于这些自然的物种我们知道的太少。因此，如果放走这些动物的话会太冒险，对于被放走的鸟和自然中本身的鸟都太冒险。这一学会也说，我们浪费了太多的资源在它们的康复上。针对这一说法，他们认为全部鸟类获救后，如果是来自非受威胁的种类应被执行安乐死。但是，这就意味着26267只鸟将会死亡，这仅在2006年的圣保罗。
en:But then what?The Brazil Ornithological Society —so now we&#39;re talking only birds —claims that we have too little knowledgeabout the species in nature.Therefore, it would be too riskyto release these animals,both for the released and for the natural populations.They also claim that we spend too many resourcesin their rehabilitation.Following this argument,they suggest that all the birdsseized from non-threatened speciesshould be euthanized.However, this would mean having killed26,267 birds,only in the state of São Paulo, only in 2006.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:但是，一些学术研究者，包括我自己，还有一些非政府组织和一些来自巴西政府的人都相信还有别的办法。我们认为，如果当动物们符合一些健康标准，行为，推测出的出生地，以及任何我们所知的关于自然中的动物的标准时，技术上来说，将它们负责的释放是可能的。不仅是对于个体的幸福安康，也是对物种和生态系统的保护。因为我们将这些物种的血统保留下来了，这对于它们来说十分重要，尤其在面临环境方面的挑战时。同时我们也会将潜在的种子传播者，掠夺者，掠夺品等都放回自然。
en:But, some researchers, myself included —some NGOs and some people from the Brazilian government —believe there is an alternative.We think that if and when the animals meetcertain criteria concerning their health,behavior, inferred originand whatever we know about the natural populations,then technically responsible releases are possible,both for the well-being of the individual,and for the conservation of the species and their ecosystems,because we will be returning genes for these populations —which could be important for themin facing environmental challenges —and also we could be returningpotential seed dispersers, predators, preys, etc.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:这些都是我们释放（到大自然）的动物。最上面，乌龟正享受着自由。中间的照片是一只鸟，在释放后的几周，这只鸟就筑好了巢。最底下是我最喜欢的动物，这只雄鸟，于他释放后的4小时就找到了一个雌性伴侣。所以，这已经不是新鲜事了，全世界的人都在这么做。但在巴西，这仍是一件大事。我们认为，我们采取了负责的释放。我们记录下了那些被我们释放且于自然中进行交配的动物，它们都有了小雏鸟。所以，这些动物的确是要回到自然中去的。尽管这仅仅还是少数
en:All of these were released by us.On the top, the turtles are just enjoying freedom.(Laughter)On the middle,this guy nested a couple of weeks after the release.And on the bottom, my personal favorite,the little male over there,four hours after his releasehe was together with a wild female.So, this is not new, people have beendoing this around the world.But it&#39;s still a big issue in Brazil.We believe we have performedresponsible releases.We&#39;ve registered released animals mating in natureand having chicks.So, these genes are indeed going back to the populations.
时间： 4:50
zh-cn:因为我们在这方面的知识太少。所以，让我们多学一点，让我们多关注这件事情。让我们尽我们所能。我正在以此作为我的事业。我在这你呼吁在座的每一位都要尽你们所能，告诉你们的邻居，教育你们的小孩，确保你们的宠物来自合法途径。我们要行动起来，现在就要开始行动，在这些动物灭绝之前。非常感谢.（掌声）
en:However this is still a minorityfor the very lack of knowledge.So, I say, &quot;Let&#39;s study more, let&#39;s shed light on this issue,let&#39;s do whatever we can.&quot;I&#39;m devoting my career to that.And I&#39;m here to urge each and every one of youto do whatever is in your reach:Talk to your neighbor, teach your children,make sure your pet is from a legal breeder.We need to act, and act now,before these ones are the only ones left.Thank you very much.(Applause)
