时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在肯尼亚有一群人。人们穿越重洋去见他们。他们长得高大。他们跳的高，他们穿戴红色。他们猎杀狮子。你也许在嘀咕，这些人是谁呀？他们就是马赛人。你知道什么酷吗？我就是他们当中的一员。
en:There&#39;s a group of people in Kenya.People cross oceans to go see them.These people are tall.They jump high. They wear red.And they kill lions.You might be wondering, who are these people?These are the Maasais.And you know what&#39;s cool? I&#39;m actually one of them.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:马赛人，男孩们长大都是勇士。女孩们长大都做妈妈。我五岁的时候，我发现我订婚了一进入青春期就马上结婚。我母亲，祖母，姨姨姑姑们她们不断提醒我你丈夫刚刚路过。（笑）酷不酷？那时我要做的一切就是准备在12岁时成为一个完美女人。我早上五点起床，挤奶，打扫房子，为我的弟兄姊妹们做饭，打水，收集柴火。我做一切该做的好成为一个完美妻子。
en:The Maasais, the boys are brought up to be warriors.The girls are brought up to be mothers.When I was five years old,I found out that I was engagedto be married as soon as I reached puberty.My mother, my grandmother, my aunties,they constantly reminded me thatyour husband just passed by.(Laughter) Cool, yeah?And everything I had to do from that momentwas to prepare me to be a perfect woman at age 12.My day started at 5 in the morning,milking the cows, sweeping the house,cooking for my siblings, collecting water, firewood.I did everything that I needed to doto become a perfect wife.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:我上学不是因为马赛人的妇女和女孩都上学。是因为我母亲被剥夺了受教育的权利，她不断提醒我和我的兄弟姐妹们她从不希望我们过像她一样的生活。为什么她会这样说?我父亲是城里的一名警察。他一年回家一次。有时两年也见不着他。他回家的时候，就不同了。我母亲在地里辛勤工作种庄稼给我们吃。她养牛和羊照顾我们。但我父亲回来时，就把牛卖了，他会卖掉所有的收成，去酒吧里跟朋友喝酒。因为我母亲是个女人，她不允许拥有财产，按规定，我家里所有的东西都属于我父亲，所以他有权力这样做。如果我母亲质问他，他就打她，虐待她，所以生活真的很艰辛。
en:I went to school not because the Maasais&#39;women or girls were going to school.It&#39;s because my mother was denied an education,and she constantly reminded me and my siblings thatshe never wanted us to live the life she was living.Why did she say that?My father worked as a policeman in the city.He came home once a year.We didn&#39;t see him for sometimes even two years.And whenever he came home, it was a different case.My mother worked hard in the farmto grow crops so that we can eat.She reared the cows and the goatsso that she can care for us.But when my father came, he would sell the cows,he would sell the products we had,and he went and drank with his friends in the bars.Because my mother was a woman,she was not allowed to own any property,and by default, everything in my family anywaybelongs to my father, so he had the right.And if my mother ever questioned him,he beat her, abused her, and really it was difficult.
时间： 2:40
zh-cn:在我就学时，有一个梦想。我想成为老师。老师看上去真好。她们穿的漂亮，穿高跟鞋。后来我才知道那很不舒服，但我曾羡慕过。（笑）最重要的是，老师只在板上写字—工作不苦，我是这样想的，比起在田里干活。所以我想成为一位老师。
en:When I went to school, I had a dream.I wanted to become a teacher.Teachers looked nice.They wear nice dresses, high-heeled shoes.I found out later that they are uncomfortable, but I admired it.(Laughter)But most of all, the teacher was just writing on the board —not hard work, that&#39;s what I thought,compared to what I was doing in the farm.So I wanted to become a teacher.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:我非常用功，但在8年级时，有个决定的因素。在我们传统，女孩要成为女人需要经过一个仪式这是一个成为女人的通过仪式我刚刚念完了8年级，就要准备上高中了。我到了人生的十字路口。一旦我通过了这个传统，我就要成为一名妻子。我的老师梦就会落空。我必须有个计划把这个事情处理好。我决定跟父亲谈谈，这是多数女孩都没做过的事。我告诉他，“我参加这个仪式的唯一条件就是你得让我回去上学。”原因是，如果我跑了，我父亲会蒙羞，人们会叫他那位是没举行仪式的女孩的父亲。余生要背负这污名是非常丢脸的所以，他想通了说，“好吧，仪式完了你就去上学。”
en:I worked hard in school, but when I was in eighth grade,it was a determining factor.In our tradition, there is a ceremonythat girls have to undergo to become women,and it&#39;s a rite of passage to womanhood.And then I was just finishing my eighth grade,and that was a transition for me to go to high school.This was the crossroad.Once I go through this tradition, I was going to become a wife.Well, my dream of becoming a teacher will not come to pass.So I talked — I had to come up with a planto figure these things out.I talked to my father. I did something that most girls have never done.I told my father, &quot;I will only go through this ceremonyif you let me go back to school.&quot;The reason why, if I ran away,my father will have a stigma, people will be calling himthe father of that girl who didn&#39;t go through the ceremony.It was a shameful thing for him to carry the rest of his life.So he figured out. &quot;Well,&quot; he said, &quot;okay,you&#39;ll go to school after the ceremony.&quot;
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:我就做了。仪式举行了。那个兴奋劲持续一星期之长。那是个仪式，人们在享受它。在正式仪式的前一天，我们在跳舞，很兴奋，整夜都没睡。到了那天，我们从之前跳舞的房子出去是的，我们跳呀跳。我们走到院子，有一群人在等着。他们围成个圈。我们跳呀跳呀，接近妇女的圈，男人，女人，孩子，人人都在。有个女人做在中间，在等着我们我是第一个到的。我的姐妹和其他女孩也在，我接近她，她看着我，我坐下了。我坐下后，打开双腿。我打开腿时，另一个女人过来了，她拿着一把刀。她拿着刀，走向我她拿着阴蒂，把它切掉。
en:I did. The ceremony happened.It&#39;s a whole week long of excitement.It&#39;s a ceremony. People are enjoying it.And the day before the actual ceremony happens,we were dancing, having excitement,and through all the night we did not sleep.The actual day came, and we walked out of the housethat we were dancing in. Yes, we danced and danced.We walked out to the courtyard, and there were a bunch of people waiting.They were all in a circle.And as we danced and danced,and we approached this circle of women,men, women, children, everybody was there.There was a woman sitting in the middle of it,and this woman was waiting to hold us.I was the first. There were my sisters and a couple of other girls,and as I approached her,she looked at me, and I sat down.And I sat down, and I opened my legs.As I opened my leg, another woman came,and this woman was carrying a knife.And as she carried the knife, she walked toward meand she held the clitoris, and she cut it off.
时间： 5:26
zh-cn:你可以想象，我血一直流，流呀。流了一会，我就昏过去了。很多女孩中—我算幸运的，我没死—但很多人死了。这是惯例，没有麻醉，用的是一把生锈的破刀子，这是个艰难的过程。我很幸运，因为我妈妈做了件事，大多数的女人却没有做。三天后，当大家都离开后，我妈妈去请来了一位护士。我们得到了照顾。三周后，我康复了，回去上高中。我下决心要当一名老师，这样我就可以帮助我的家人。
en:As you can imagine, I bled. I bled.After bleeding for a while, I fainted thereafter.It&#39;s something that so many girls —I&#39;m lucky, I never died — but many die.It&#39;s practiced, it&#39;s no anesthesia, it&#39;s a rusty old knife,and it was difficult.I was lucky because one, also, my mom did somethingthat most women don&#39;t do.Three days later, after everybody has left the home,my mom went and brought a nurse.We were taken care of.Three weeks later, I was healed, and I was back in high school.I was so determined to be a teacher nowso that I could make a difference in my family.
时间： 6:16
zh-cn:我在高中时，发生了一件事。我遇到了从我们村来的一位年轻人他去过俄勒冈大学。这个人穿着白衬衣，牛仔裤，带着照相机，穿着白运动鞋—我讲的是白色的运动鞋。我觉得，这些衣服，和鞋子很特别。它们是运动鞋耶，而这里是一个小村子连路都没铺过。所以他非常吸引人。
en:Well, while I was in high school, something happened.I met a young gentleman from our villagewho had been to the University of Oregon.This man was wearing a white t-shirt, jeans, camera,white sneakers — and I&#39;m talking about white sneakers.There is something about clothes, I think, and shoes.They were sneakers, and this is in a villagethat doesn&#39;t even have paved roads. It was quite attractive.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:我跟他说，“我想去你在的那个地方，”因为这个男人看上去很开心，我好羡慕。
en:I told him, &quot;Well, I want to go to where you are,&quot;because this man looked very happy, and I admired that.
时间： 6:54
zh-cn:他回答“你说你想去是什么意思？”“你的丈夫不是在等你吗？”
en:And he told me, &quot;Well,what do you mean, you want to go?Don&#39;t you have a husband waiting for you?&quot;
时间： 7:00
zh-cn:我跟他说，“别担心那个。“”只要告诉我怎么去就好。”
en:And I told him, &quot;Don&#39;t worry about that part.Just tell me how to get there.&quot;
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:这个人，帮助了我。我上高中的时候，我爸爸生病了。他得了中风，病得非常重，所以他没法告诉我应做什么。但问题是，我父亲不是我唯一的爸爸。在社区里，每一个跟我爸爸同龄的按规矩，都是我父亲。我的所有叔叔们，—他们掌管着我的未来。
en:This gentleman, he helped me.While I was in high school also, my dad was sick.He got a stroke, and he was really, really sick,so he really couldn&#39;t tell me what to do next.But the problem is, my father is not the only father I have.Everybody who is my dad&#39;s age, male in the community,is my father by default —my uncles, all of them — and they dictate what my future is.
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:我申请了学校我被弗吉尼亚州的林奇堡的伦道夫梅肯女子学院录取了，没有村里的支持我去不了，因为我要集资买机票。学校给我奖学金，但我需要想法子去到那里。我需要村里的支持，当男人们听到后，当人们听到一个女人有机会去上学，他们说，“多么浪费的机会。”“这个机会应该给一个男孩。我们不能这样做。”
en:So the news came, I applied to schooland I was accepted to Randolph-Macon Woman&#39;s College in Lynchburg, Virginia,and I couldn&#39;t come without the support of the village,because I needed to raise money to buy the air ticket.I got a scholarship but I needed to get myself here.But I needed the support of the village,and here again, when the men heard,and the people heard that a woman had gotten an opportunity to go to school,they said, &quot;What a lost opportunity.This should have been given to a boy. We can&#39;t do this.&quot;
时间： 8:04
zh-cn:所以我只好回去，我不得不回到传统。在我们的人中有个信仰那就是早晨会带来好消息。所以我必须想想要在早上做些什么因为早晨会有好消息。在村里，有一位首领，一位长者，如果他说可以，所有的人都听他的。所以清晨在太阳升起的时候，我去找他。他早上看到的第一样东西，就是我。
en:So I went back and I had to go back to the tradition.There&#39;s a belief among our peoplethat morning brings good news.So I had to come up with something to do with the morning,because there&#39;s good news in the morning.And in the village also, there is one chief, an elder,who if he says yes, everybody will follow him.So I went to him very early in the morning, as the sun rose.The first thing he sees when he opens his door is, it&#39;s me.
时间： 8:35
zh-cn:他说：“我的孩子，你在这做什么？”
en:&quot;My child, what are you doing here?&quot;
时间： 8:37
zh-cn:“爸爸，我需要帮忙。你能帮助我去美国吗？”我承诺他，我将是最好的女孩，我会回来，之后他们想要我做什么我都会做。
en:&quot;Well, Dad, I need help. Can you support me to go to America?&quot;I promised him that I would be the best girl,I will come back, anything they wanted after that,I will do it for them.
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:他说，“可是，我不能一人做主。”他给了我15个男人的名字，让我去找他们之后又加了16个男人—每天早上我去拜访他们。有天，他们聚集在一起。整个村子，女人，男人，每个人都来了都支持我去接受教育。
en:He said, &quot;Well, but I can&#39;t do it alone.&quot;He gave me a list of another 15 men that I went —16 more men — every single morningI went and visited them.They all came together.The village, the women, the men, everybody came togetherto support me to come to get an education.
时间： 9:07
zh-cn:我到了美国。你们可以想象，我发现了什么？我看到了雪！我看到了沃尔马，吸尘器，和食堂里很多的食物。我到达了一片富饶的土地。
en:I arrived in America. As you can imagine, what did I find?I found snow!I found Wal-Marts, vacuum cleaners,and lots of food in the cafeteria.I was in a land of plenty.
时间： 9:24
zh-cn:我过的很开心，可是在这段时间里我发现了很多事情。我得知我13岁时接受的仪式叫做女性生殖器切割。我得知那在肯尼亚是违法的。我得知我不必用我的身体去换取教育。我有权利。此时此刻，在非洲有3百万个女孩正面临这种切割的危险。我得知我妈妈有权拥有财产。我得知她不必因为是个女人而受虐待。这一切让我生气。我想做点事情。每次我回去，我发现我邻居的女孩们结婚了。她们被切割了。我毕业后，在联合国工作，我回学校去拿我的毕业作品，我常常想到那些女孩们的哭喊。我必须做点什么。
en:I enjoyed myself, but during that moment while I was here,I discovered a lot of things.I learned that that ceremony that I went throughwhen I was 13 years old, it was called female genital mutilation.I learned that it was against the law in Kenya.I learned that I did not have to trade part of my bodyto get an education. I had a right.And as we speak right now, three million girlsin Africa are at risk of going through this mutilation.I learned that my mom had a right to own property.I learned that she did not have to be abusedbecause she is a woman.Those things made me angry.I wanted to do something.As I went back, every time I went,I found that my neighbors&#39; girls were getting married.They were getting mutilated, and here,after I graduated from here, I worked at the U.N.,I went back to school to get my graduate work,the constant cry of these girls was in my face.I had to do something.
时间：10:35
zh-cn:我回去后，开始跟男人们沟通，去村里，对着那些母亲们，我说，“我想实现我对你们的承诺&quot;”我承诺过会回来帮助你们。你们需要什么？”
en:As I went back, I started talking to the men,to the village, and mothers, and I said,&quot;I want to give back the way I had promised youthat I would come back and help you. What do you need?&quot;
时间：10:44
zh-cn:我跟妇女们交谈，她们告诉我，“你知道我们需要什么吗？我们需要一所给女孩的学校。”因为从未有一所女生学校。她们想要女子学校的原因是因为如果有个女孩在去学校的路上被强奸了，她妈妈会受到责备。如果她在结婚前怀孕，母亲就会被指责，被惩罚。她将会被毒打。她们说，“我们想让女孩们有个安全的地方。”
en:As I spoke to the women, they told me,&quot;You know what we need? We really need a school for girls.&quot;Because there had not been any school for girls.And the reason they wanted the school for girlsis because when a girl is raped when she&#39;s walking to school,the mother is blamed for that.If she got pregnant before she got married,the mother is blamed for that, and she&#39;s punished.She&#39;s beaten.They said, &quot;We wanted to put our girls in a safe place.&quot;
时间：11:10
zh-cn:我去跟父亲们谈话，当然，你能想象父亲们会说什么，“我们想要一所男子学校。”
en:As we moved, and I went to talk to the fathers,the fathers, of course, you can imagine what they said:&quot;We want a school for boys.&quot;
时间：11:18
zh-cn:我说，“从我村里有好几个男人“”出去接受教育。“”为何不让他们为男孩们建所学校，”“而我会为女生建所学校？”挺合理的，他们就同意了。我跟他们说，我要他们展现承担责任的精神。他们做到了。他们捐了块地给我们建女子学校。我们就有了这所学校。
en:And I said, &quot;Well, there are a couple of men from my villagewho have been out and they have gotten an education.Why can&#39;t they build a school for boys,and I&#39;ll build a school for girls?&quot;That made sense. And they agreed.And I told them, I wanted them to show me a sign of commitment.And they did. They donated land where we built the girls&#39; school.We have.
时间：11:42
zh-cn:我想让你们见见那所学校的其中一位女孩。Angeline来学校报名，她没有符合我们的任何一条标准。她是个孤儿。是的，我们可以因此录取她。但她有点大了，12岁，而我们收的是4年级的女生。Angeline从一个地方搬出来—因为她是个孤儿，无父无母—从一方祖母的家搬到另一方，从姑姑家到姨姨家。她生活不稳定。我看着她，我记得那天，我看到了超越Angeline本身的东西。是的，她比4年级生大一点。我们给她机会来到教室。这是五个月后的Angeline。她的人生在转变。Angeline想成为一位飞跃世界的飞行员有所作为。我们录取她的时候，她不是头等生。现在她不只在我们学校是最优秀的，在我们所在的地区她也是最棒的。这是Sharon。这是5年后。这个是Evelyn。五个月后，这是我们的成果。
en:I want you to meet one of the girls in that school.Angeline came to apply for the school,and she did not meet any criteria that we had.She&#39;s an orphan. Yes, we could have taken her for that.But she was older. She was 12 years old,and we were taking girls who were in fourth grade.Angeline had been moving from one place —because she&#39;s an orphan, she has no mother, she has no father —moving from one grandmother&#39;s house to another one,from aunties to aunties. She had no stability in her life.And I looked at her, I remember that day,and I saw something beyond what I was seeing in Angeline.And yes, she was older to be in fourth grade.We gave her the opportunity to come to the class.Five months later, that is Angeline.A transformation had begun in her life.Angeline wants to be a pilot so she can fly around the worldand make a difference.She was not the top student when we took her.Now she&#39;s the best student, not just in our school,but in the entire division that we are in.That&#39;s Sharon. That&#39;s five years later.That&#39;s Evelyn. Five months later, that is the difference that we are making.
时间：12:53
zh-cn:我们学校迎来了一个新的黎明，迎来了新的开始。此时此刻，125位女孩再也不会被切割。125位女孩子不会在12岁时嫁人。125位女孩子在创造和追逐她们的梦想。这就是我们在做的，给她们机会让她们站起来。此时此刻，妇女不会被虐打因为我们的社区开始了革命。
en:As a new dawn is happening in my school,a new beginning is happening.As we speak right now, 125 girls will never be mutilated.One hundred twenty-five girls will not be married when they&#39;re 12 years old.One hundred twenty-five girls are creating and achieving their dreams.This is the thing that we are doing,giving them opportunities where they can rise.As we speak right now, women are not being beatenbecause of the revolutions we&#39;ve started in our community.
时间：13:27
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：13:35
zh-cn:今天我想挑战你们。你们在这里听我演讲，因为你们都非常乐观。你们有如此的热情。你们想看到一个更美好的世界。你们想看到战争结束，贫困消失。你们想有所作为。你们想让明天更美好。我想挑战你们去做一位走在前端的人，因为人们会跟随你。做第一个走在前面的人，人们会跟随你。勇敢些， 担责任，不畏惧，有信心。走出去，因为当你改变了你的世界，当你改变了你的社区，当我们相信我们一次影响一个女孩，一个家庭，一个村庄，一个国家我们就能发挥重要作用。因此，如果你改变你的世界，你就会改变你的社区，就会改变你的国家，想一想吧。如果你这样做，我这样做，我们不是在为我们的后代，你们的后代创造一个更美好的未来吗？我们将会住在一个非常和平的世界。谢谢大家！
en:I want to challenge you today.You are listening to me because you are here,very optimistic.You are somebody who is so passionate.You are somebody who wants to see a better world.You are somebody who wants to see that war ends, no poverty.You are somebody who wants to make a difference.You are somebody who wants to make our tomorrow better.I want to challenge you today that to be the first,because people will follow you.Be the first. People will follow you.Be bold. Stand up. Be fearless. Be confident.Move out, because as you change your world,as you change your community,as we believe that we are impacting one girl, one family,one village, one country at a time.We are making a difference, so if you change your world,you are going to change your community,you are going to change your country,and think about that. If you do that, and I do that,aren&#39;t we going to create a better future for our children,for your children, for our grandchildren?And we will live in a very peaceful world. Thank you very much.
时间：14:48
zh-cn:(掌声）
en:(Applause)
