时间： 0:12
zh-cn:1994年我走进柬埔寨的一所监狱遇见了一个12岁的男孩他被刑讯逼供并且禁止接触律师当我看着他的眼睛时，我意识到尽管我曾经写过几百封给政治犯争取权利的信，我恐怕不会给他也写一封因为这个12岁的孩子不是一个为别人做出过重要贡献的人他不是政治犯他12岁成为囚徒只因为偷了一辆自行车当时我还意识到不仅仅在柬埔寨而且在113个存在刑讯逼供的发展中国家里已经有93个国家通过了法律宣布其公民有权聘请律师而且有权不受逼供。
en:In 1994, I walked into a prison in Cambodia,and I met a 12-year-old boywho had been torturedand was denied access to counsel.And as I looked into his eyes, I realizedthat for the hundreds of letters I had writtenfor political prisoners, that I would never havewritten a letter for him,because he was not a 12-year-old boy whohad done something important for anybody.He was not a political prisoner.He was a 12-year-old boy who hadstolen a bicycle.What I also realized at that point was thatit was not only Cambodia, butof the 113developing countries that torture,93 of these countries have all passed lawsthat say you have a right to a lawyerand you have a right not to be tortured.
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:我认为我们有一个极好的机会将整个国际社会联合起来制止刑讯逼供我们时常把逼供看做政治行为或者说专门用于应对最坏的情况，可是其实当今95%的逼供并不针对政治犯而是针对生活在漏洞百出的法律体系下的人们不幸的是刑讯逼供是成本最低的审讯方法—比建立一个完善的法制的成本要低得多也比请律师和寻求前期法律咨询要便宜得多大多数时候都是这样我相信今天如果我们团结起整个国际社会，共同作出一个决定来制止刑讯逼供我们有可能在有生之年达成目标但是有三个前提首先是给予全世界的法律援助者足够的训练、支持与帮助
en:And what I recognized was that there was anincredible window of opportunity for usas a world community to come togetherand end torture as an investigative tool.We often think of torture as beingpolitical torture or reserved forjust the worst, but, in fact,95 percent of torture todayis not for political prisoners.It is for people who arein broken-down legal systems,and unfortunately because torture isthe cheapest form of investigation —it&#39;s cheaper than having a legal system,cheaper than having a lawyerand early access to counsel —it is what happens most of the time.I believe today that it is possible for usas a world community, if we make a decision,to come together and end tortureas an investigative tool in our lifetime,but it will require three things.First is the training, empowerment,and connection of defenders worldwide.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:第二是确保程序化的前期法律咨询能够落实其三就是承诺和责任在2000年我开始思考如果我们真的联合起来会怎样？我们能否做点什么来帮帮这93个国家？于是我成立了一个叫“国际正义桥”的机构这个机构有一个特殊的任务那就是阻止刑讯逼供维护正当的法律权益我们在上述93个国家组织了一批训练有素的律师在案件审理早期就前往警察局和法院而我最初的经验都来自柬埔寨，我记得第一次去那里时，是1994年整个国家只有不到10个律师，因为红色高棉运动几乎把他们杀光了
en:The second is insuring that there issystematic early access to counsel.And the third is commitment.So in the year 2000,I began to wonder,what if we came together?Could we do somethingfor these 93 countries?And I founded International Bridges to Justicewhich has a specific mission ofending torture as an investigative tooland implementing due process rightsin the 93 countries by placing trained lawyersat an early stage in police stationsand in courtrooms.My first experiences, though, did comefrom Cambodia, and at the time I rememberfirst coming to Cambodia and there were,in 1994, still less than10 attorneys in the country becausethe Khmer Rouge had killed them all.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:哪怕是20年之后全国也只有10个律师，因此当你走进一所监狱你不仅会遇到12岁的小孩还会遇到女人，然后你问“你为什么被关进来？”女人们会说“我被关了10年了，就因为我丈夫犯了罪，警察抓不到他。”所以柬埔寨根本没有法制可言
en:And even 20 years later, there was only10 lawyers in the country, so consequentlyyou&#39;d walk into a prison andnot only would you meet 12-year-old boys,you&#39;d meet women and you&#39;d say,&quot;Why are you here?&quot; Women would say,&quot;Well I&#39;ve been here for 10 years becausemy husband committed a crime, but they can&#39;t find him.&quot;So it&#39;s just a place where there was no rule of law.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:第一个法律援助团队组建起来后，我记得在对他们进行训练的时候，我说“好了，告诉我审讯的时候你们怎么做？”全班都静悄悄的，最终一个女人站起来她说“克鲁”，就是柬埔寨语“老师”的意思她说：“我曾经帮一百多人辩护，但我从来都不用对他们审讯因为他们来了之后就会主动坦白。“
en:The first group of defenders came togetherand I still remember, as I was training, I said,&quot;Okay, what do you do for an investigation?&quot;And there was silence in the class, and finallyone woman stood up, [inaudible name],and she said &quot;Khrew,&quot; which means &quot;teacher.&quot;She said, &quot;I have defended more thana hundred people, and I&#39;ve never had to doany investigation,because they all come with confessions.&quot;
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:然后我们全班一起讨论了一些事实：第一：他们主动坦白的信息不一定可靠，但是第二：我们不想鼓励警方继续进行刑讯逼供，尤其是现在这是违反法律的这些律师们需要很多勇气才决定他们要站出来互相协助确保法律不是空文我还记得最早的那些案件中律师们一共25个人，那个女律师站起来，其他人在她身后支持她，而法官不断地说：”不不不不，我们要完全按照以前做事的程序做。“
en:And we talked about, as a class, the fact thatnumber one, the confessionsmight not be reliable, but number two,we did not want to encourage the policeto keep doing this, especiallyas it was now against the law.And it took a lot of courage for thesedefenders to decide that they wouldbegin to stand up and support each otherin implementing these laws.And I still remember the first cases wherethey came, all 25 together, she wouldstand up, and they were in the back, andthey would support her, and the judges keptsaying, &quot;No, no, no, no, we&#39;re going to do thingsthe exact same way we&#39;ve been doing them.&quot;
时间： 3:59
zh-cn:但是有一天出现了个完美的案件被告是一个卖菜的女人她坐在一间房子外面她说自己的确看到一个人跑出来，她认为这个人偷了不知是个什么珠宝，但警察来了，抓了她，她身上什么都没有当时还怀孕了。她身上有烟头烫伤的痕迹。最终不幸流产了当她的案子刚被递交给法官时，法官就站起来说“的确，除了逼供获得的供词外没有其他证据你将被释放。”
en:But one day the perfect case came, and itwas a woman who was a vegetable seller,she was sitting outside of a house.She said she actually saw the personrun out who she thinks stolewhatever the jewelry was, but the policecame, they got her, there was nothing on her.She was pregnant at the time. She hadcigarette burns on her. She&#39;d miscarried.And when they brought her caseto the judge, for the first time he stood upand he said, &quot;Yes, there&#39;s no evidenceexcept for your torture confessionand you will be released.&quot;
时间： 4:28
zh-cn:于是我们的律师开始受理这些案件反反复复地做而且他们已经开始一步步地改变柬埔寨的历史了。但并不只是柬埔寨是这样的我曾经想，是不是只有柬埔寨虐囚呢？还是其他国家也这样？真的还有很多国家。
en:And the defenders began to take casesover and over again andyou will see, they have step by step beganto change the course of history in Cambodia.But Cambodia is not alone.I used to think, well is it Cambodia?Or is it other countries?But it is in so many countries.
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:在布隆迪我又走进一间监狱，这次遇见的不是个12岁的男孩，而是一个8岁的男孩因为偷了一个手机被捕入狱或者一个女人；我抱起她的孩子，真的很可爱，我说：”你孩子真讨人喜欢。“那不是个婴儿，她已经3岁了。母亲告诉我:&quot;是啊，就是因为她我才进来的”因为这个母亲为了孩子偷了两片纸尿布和一个熨斗而获罪仍被关在监狱里我找到监狱的主管说：“你该放她出去。法官会释放她的。”他说：“好啊，我们可以商量一下，不过看看这座监狱，这里面两千多人中的百分之八十都没有律师。我们该怎么办？”于是我们的律师们开始勇敢地站出来组织一个系统以便接这些案子。可是我们发现不光是律师的素质训练更重要的是他们的人际关系决定事情的进展。
en:In Burundi I walked into a prison and it wasn&#39;ta 12-year-old boy, it was an 8-year-old boyfor stealing a mobile phone.Or a woman, I picked up her baby,really cute baby, I said &quot;Your baby is so cute.&quot;It wasn&#39;t a baby, she was three.And she said &quot;Yeah, but she&#39;s why I&#39;m here,&quot;because she was accused of stealingtwo diapers and an iron for her baby andstill had been in prison.And when I walked up to the prison director,I said, &quot;You&#39;ve got to let her out.A judge would let her out.&quot;And he said, &quot;Okay, we can talk about it,but look at my prison. Eighty percentof the two thousand people hereare without a lawyer. What can we do?&quot;So lawyers began to courageouslystand up together to organize a systemwhere they can take cases.But we realized that it&#39;s not only the trainingof the lawyers, but the connectionof the lawyers that makes a difference.
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:比如说在柬埔寨，某人不是自己孤身上法庭而是有24个律师合力帮助他。同样的在中国，他们告诉我“我们一起合作时，感觉就像沙漠上来了凉风一样。”在津巴布韦，我想起了英诺森从一间监狱出来之后—那里的每个人都站起来说：“我在这儿一年，八年，或者十二年都没有律师，”—英诺森到了我们这里，一起参加培训他讲：“我听人这样说过”—因为他听过很多这样的嘀咕、抱怨—“我听别人说我们没法儿建立司法公正因为我们缺乏资源。”他又说：“但是我想让你明白缺少资源永远不是不公正的借口。&quot;带着这份信念，他成功地组织了68名律师这些人一直在成系统地接这样的案子。
en:For example, in Cambodia, it was that[inaudible name] did not go alonebut she had 24 lawyers with herwho stood up together. And in the same way,in China, they always tell me,&quot;It&#39;s like a fresh wind in the desertwhen we can come together.&quot;Or in Zimbabwe, where I remember Innocent,after coming out of a prison where everybodystood up and said, &quot;I&#39;ve been herefor one year, eight years, 12 yearswithout a lawyer,&quot;he came and we had a training togetherand he said, &quot;I have heard it said&quot; —because he had heard people mumblingand grumbling — &quot;I have heard it said thatwe cannot help to create justicebecause we do not have the resources.&quot;And then he said, &quot;But I want you to knowthat the lack of resourcesis never an excuse for injustice.&quot;And with that, he successfullyorganized 68 lawyers who have beensystematically taking the cases.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:我们发现重点在于培训并且给人们尽早接触律师的机会我最近在埃及，突发奇想和另一群律师碰了面他们告诉我”瞧瞧，我们的街上现在没有警察了。警察是造成这次革命的主要原因之一他们滥用刑罚，一直如此。“我不解道：”可是前些时候已经有几千万美元被用于发展法律系统了。到底发生了什么？“我走访了一个法律发展部门他们当时在培训检察官和法官，这就是他们通常的偏见，不培训辩护律师。他们给我看了一个小册子这个东西很棒我说：”我想复印一下.&quot;这里面涵盖了所有规定：律师被允许到警察局来。太棒了。上面说检察官也会接受完善的培训。我对他们说，“我只有一个问题想问就是嫌疑人来到检查官办公室之前，他们会经历什么？”稍做停顿之后，他们说，“他们得吃点儿苦头。”
en:The key that we see, though, is trainingand then early access.I was recently in Egypt, and was inspiredto meet with another group of lawyers,and what they told me is that they said,&quot;Hey, look, we don&#39;t have policeon the streets now. The police areone of the main reasons why we hadthe revolution. They were torturing everybodyall the time.&quot;And I said, &quot;But there&#39;s been tens of millionsof dollars that have recently gone into the development of the legal system here.What&#39;s going on?&quot;I met with one of the development agencies,and they were training prosecutorsand judges, which is the normal bias,as opposed to defenders.And they showed me a manual whichactually was an excellent manual.I said, &quot;I&#39;m gonna copy this.&quot;It had everything in it. Lawyers can comeat the police station. It was perfect.Prosecutors were perfectly trained.But I said to them, &quot;I just have one question,which is, by the time that everybody got tothe prosecutor&#39;s office, what had happened to them?&quot;And after a pause, they said,&quot;They had been tortured.&quot;
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:所以问题的答案不光是培训律师，而且在于找到办法系统地保证嫌疑人尽早接触到律师，因为他们是系统中的保护措施，保护被刑讯逼供的人。我在跟你们说这些的时候，我知道这些听起来好像是：“哦，好啊，听起来我们像是能够解决问题了?可是真的能吗？”给人感觉理想太大了但是我有很多理由相信它完全有可能实现。第一个理由是在基层做事的人们他们独辟蹊径地在创造奇迹因为他们的信念和坚持不只是我告诉你们的那个津巴布韦的英诺森而是来自全世界的很多辩护律师都在为寻找答案努力我们有一个项目叫“公正缔造者”从中我们发现很多人都有勇气并且愿意做事，但是我们如何支持他们呢？所以有了一个网上的竞赛：奖励是5000美元，如果你想出一个创造性的维护司法公正的方式。我们有30个“公正缔造者”来自世界各地，比如斯里兰卡史瓦济兰，刚果（金）他们用5000美元做出了惊人的贡献通过短讯息服务，通过律师助理训练通过他们能用的各种方式。
en:So the pieces are,not only the training of the lawyers, butus finding a way to systematically implementearly access to counsel, because they arethe safeguard in the systemfor people who are being tortured.And as I tell you this, I&#39;m also aware of thefact that it sounds like, &quot;Oh, okay, it soundslike we could do it, but can we really do it?&quot;Because it sounds big.And there are many reasons why I believe it&#39;s possible.The first reason is the people on the groundwho find ways of creating miraclesbecause of their commitment.It&#39;s not only Innocent, who I told you aboutin Zimbabwe, but defenders all over the worldwho are looking for these pieces.We have a program called JusticeMakers,and we realized there are people that arecourageous and want to do things, buthow can we support them?So it&#39;s an online contest where it&#39;s onlyfive thousand dollars if you come up withand innovative way of implementing justice.And there are 30 JusticeMakersthroughout the world, from Sri Lankato Swaziland to the DRC, who withfive thousand dollars do amazing things,through SMS programs,through paralegal programs,through whatever they can do.
时间： 8:43
zh-cn:而且不仅是这些“公正缔造者”而且我们看见有的人很勇敢地利用他们的关系促进事情的发展。
en:And it&#39;s not only these JusticeMakers,but people we courageously seefigure out who their networks areand how they can move it forward.
时间： 8:54
zh-cn:比如在中国，有这样的立法说警察不能虐待嫌疑人，否则他们将受到处罚当时我坐在一个很有勇气的律师旁边，我说“我们该怎么怎么办?怎么才能保证这些法律被执行？它们都很不错。”他就对我说“你有钱吗？”我说“没有”。 然后他说，“没关系，我们还能想办法。”12月4日，他组织了3000名共青团员来自14个中国最好的法学院他们自己组织起来制作了关于这些立法的宣传画来到警察局，开始了他所宣称的一次非暴力的法制革命以保护公民权利。所以我刚才讲到我们需要培训和支持辩护律师并且我们要系统化地保证嫌疑人尽早接触律师。而第三个也是最重要的事情就是我们坚持这项事业。
en:So in China, for instance, great lawscame out where it says police cannottorture people or they will be punished.And I was sitting side by side with one of ourvery courageous lawyers, and said,&quot;How can we get this out? How can wemake sure that this is implemented?This is fantastic.&quot; And he said to me,&quot;Well, do you have money?&quot; And I said,&quot;No.&quot; And he said, &quot;That&#39;s okay,we can still figure it out.&quot;And on December 4, he organizedthree thousand membersof the Youth Communist League,from 14 of the top law schools,who organized themselves, developedposters with the new laws, and wentto the police stations and began what he saysis a non-violent legal revolutionto protect citizen rights.So I talked about the fact that we needto train and support defenders.We need to systematically implementearly access to counsel.But the third and most important thing is thatwe make a commitment to this.
时间： 9:52
zh-cn:人们经常对我说：”你知道的，这个真的很好，只是太过理想主义了。恐怕不能实现。”我认为这话很有意思它有意思就因为它被说过无数次了被那些决定废除奴隶制、或者种族隔离的人都用过。每次都是一小群人开始他们决定他们能坚持
en:And people often say to me, &quot;You know,this is great, but it&#39;s wildly idealistic.Never going to happen.&quot;And the reason that I think thatthose words are interesting is becausethose were the same kinds of wordsthat were used for people who decidedthey would end slavery, or end apartheid.It began with a small group of peoplewho decided they would commit.
时间：10:12
zh-cn:这里有一首我们的律师们最喜欢的诗，他们互相之间交换诗作“鼓起勇气吧朋友们，尽管前路漫漫，方向难辨，责任重大但心底里你并不孤单。”我相信如果我们能团结起来以国际社会的名义支持不仅律师们，而且法律系统中的所有关注者我们就能制止刑讯逼供我知道人们还是有疑问我也很乐意跟你们多聊聊任何时候都行—我知道人们会问：“我到底能做什么？”我会告诉你们，首先，你知道你能干什么。其次我想告诉你们一个叫维什那的孩子的故事他给了我灵感让我组建了”国际公正桥“组织
en:Now, there&#39;s one of our favorite poemsfrom the defenders, which they sharefrom each other, is:&quot;Take courage friends, the road is often long,the path is never clear,and the stakes are very high,but deep down, you are not alone.&quot;And I believe that if we can come togetheras a world community to support not onlydefenders, but also everyone in the systemwho is looking towards it,we can end torture as an investigative tool.I end always, because I&#39;m sure the questions are —and I&#39;d be happy to talk to youat any point — &quot;But what can I really do?&quot;Well, I would say this. First of all,you know what you can do. But second of all,I would leave you with the story of Vishna,who actually was my inspirationfor starting International Bridges to Justice.
时间：10:56
zh-cn:我见到维什那时他四岁他生在一个柬埔寨的监狱里在甘丹省。因为他生在监狱，那儿每个人都喜欢他包括监狱的守卫，所以他是唯一一个被允许从栅栏间进出的人你们也知道，那地方有很多栅栏当维什那长大了一些的时候他的脑袋变大了所以当他钻进第一个栅栏然后第二个、第三个栅栏然后慢慢挪动他的头他还能进去，然后再回来第三个、第二个、第一个，接着他就抓住我的小拇指，他就喜欢这样每天在监狱里串门尽管他没办法每天拜访每一个人，但他真的想看到所有156个囚犯。我会把他抱起来然后他把手指放进那个小缝隙里有时牢房是暗室有的地方是瓦楞铁板，他就把手纸伸进缝隙里
en:Vishna was a 4-year-old boy when I met himwho was born in a Cambodian prisonin Kandal Province. But because he wasborn in the prison, everybody loved him,including the guards, so he was the only onewho was allowed to comein and out of the bars.So, you know, there&#39;s bars. And by the timethat Vishna was getting bigger,which means what gets bigger? Your head gets bigger.So he would come to the first bar,the second bar and then the third bar,and then really slowly move his headso he could fit through, and come back,third, second, first. And he wouldgrab my pinkie, because what he wantedto do every day is he wanted to go visit.You know, he never quite made it toall of them every day, but he wanted to visitall 156 prisoners. And I would lift him,and he would put his fingers through.Or if they were dark cells, it was like ironcorrugated, and he would put his fingers through.
时间：11:44
zh-cn:大部分囚犯都说他是他们最大的快乐他们期待着见到他。我就想维什那，一个四岁的孩子生在监狱里，一无所有没有任何物质享受，但是他有一种对自身英雄之旅的把握，我相信我们天生都有。他说“可能我无法做到一切但是能出一份力。我就把我能做的做了。”所以我谢谢你们与我们共同畅想一个更美好的世界也邀请你们与我们同行。
en:And most of the prisoners said that he wastheir greatest joy and their sunshine, and theylooked forward to him. And I was like,here&#39;s Vishna. He&#39;s a 4-year-old boy.He was born in a prison with almost nothing,no material goods, but he had a sense ofhis own heroic journey, which I believewe are all born into. He said,&quot;Probably I can&#39;t do everything.But I&#39;m one. I can do something.And I will do the one thing that I can do.&quot;So I thank you for having the propheticimagination to imagine the shapingof a new world with us together,and invite you into this journey with us.
时间：12:15
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：12:17
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：12:25
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：12:29
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：12:31
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
