时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我能否仅凭一把水果刀保护我的父亲,免受伊斯兰武装组织的伤害?这就是1993年六月一个周二的早上,当我还是一名法学院学生时面临的问题。
en:Could I protect my fatherfrom the Armed Islamic Group with a paring knife?That was the question I facedone Tuesday morning in June of 1993,when I was a law student.
时间： 0:22
zh-cn:那天早上在父亲的公寓我醒的很早那是在阿尔及利亚的阿尔及尔市的郊外，门外响起了用力的敲门声。那是一个被当地报刊描述为每个周二都有一名学者倒在原教旨主义者枪口之下的季节。我父亲在大学的达尔文（进化论）教学已经惹得所谓的伊斯兰救国阵线头目到访课堂。在父亲将他驱逐出课堂前，他公然抨击父亲为生物主义的倡导者.而现在门外的这个人，既不说自己是谁，也不离开。所以我的父亲打电话报警，但是可能被这些已经害死了这么多阿尔及利亚官员的武装极端分子不断高涨的势力所恐吓，警察们甚至没有接起电话。就是那个时候，我走进厨房，拿起一把水果刀，挡在了门厅过道上。这其实很可笑，真的，但是我想不出还能做什么了，所以我就站在那里。
en:I woke up early that morningin Dad&#39;s apartmenton the outskirts of Algiers, Algeria,to an unrelenting pounding on the front door.It was a season as described by a local paperwhen every Tuesday a scholar fellto the bullets of fundamentalist assassins.My father&#39;s university teaching of Darwinhad already provoked a classroom visitfrom the head of the so-calledIslamic Salvation Front,who denounced Dad as an advocate of biologismbefore Dad had ejected the man,and now whoever was outsidewould neither identify himself nor go away.So my father tried to get the police on the phone,but perhaps terrified by the rising tideof armed extremism that had already claimedthe lives of so many Algerian officers,they didn&#39;t even answer.And that was when I went to the kitchen,got out a paring knife,and took up a position inside the entryway.It was a ridiculous thing to do, really,but I couldn&#39;t think of anything else,and so there I stood.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:如今当我回想起那个场景，我认为就是那个时候我想要写一本书，叫做：《你的圣令（Fatwa）在此无效：未曾公开的与穆斯林原教旨主义抗争的故事》这个标题来自于一出巴基斯坦剧本。我认为实际上正是那一刻让我踏上一段旅程去采访了来自近30个国家的300名穆斯林，从阿富汗到马里，他们是如何和平抗争原教旨主义的就像我父亲做的那样还有他们是如何应对挥之不去的生命威胁。
en:When I look back now, I thinkthat that was the momentthat set me on the path was to writing a bookcalled &quot;Your Fatwa Does Not Apply Here:Untold Stories from the FightAgainst Muslim Fundamentalism.&quot;The title comes from a Pakistani play.I think it was actually that momentthat sent me on the journeyto interview 300 people of Muslim heritagefrom nearly 30 countries,from Afghanistan to Mali,to find out how they fought fundamentalismpeacefully like my father did,and how they coped with the attendant risks.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:很幸运的，1993年六月那次门外的身份不明的到访者最终离开了，但是其他的家庭远没有那么幸运，也正是这个想法激发了我的研究。无论哪种情况，几个月之后都会有人在我父亲的餐桌上留下一张这样的纸条，只有一句“当作你已经死了”。随后， 阿尔及利亚的原教旨武装组织在二十世纪九零年代谋杀了超过二十万名平民成为名副其实的黑暗十年，受害者包括现在大屏幕上你看到的每一位女性。当国家开始粗暴的反击使用刑讯逼供等手段打击恐怖主义（很多人）未经审判就“突然消失”，当这可怕的一切发生的时候，国际社会在很大程度上忽略了他们。最终，我那从阿尔及利亚农民家庭成长为教授的父亲，被迫停止的在大学的任职并逃出了他的公寓但是我永远无法忘记Mahfoud Bennoune, 我的父亲就像其他诸多阿尔及利亚知识分子一样，他拒绝离开他的祖国并且他继续出版尖锐的评论既有针对原教旨主义的，有时也有针对与他们作战的政府的比如说，在1994年11月期间在名为《El Watan》报纸上标题为“ 原教旨主义何以孕育恐怖主义，与传统文化背道而驰。”他谴责了被他称之为恐怖主义者与我们祖先倡导的真正穆斯林之间的的本质区别。这些言论足以让你丧命。
en:Luckily, back in June of 1993,our unidentified visitor went away,but other families were so much less lucky,and that was the thoughtthat motivated my research.In any case, someone would returna few months later and leave a noteon Dad&#39;s kitchen table,which simply said, &quot;Consider yourself dead.&quot;Subsequently, Algeria&#39;sfundamentalist armed groupswould murder as many as 200,000 civiliansin what came to be knownas the dark decade of the 1990s,including every single oneof the women that you see here.In its harsh counterterrorist response,the state resorted to tortureand to forced disappearances,and as terrible as all of these events became,the international community largely ignored them.Finally, my father, an Algerianpeasant&#39;s son turned professor,was forced to stop teaching at the universityand to flee his apartment,but what I will never forgetabout Mahfoud Bennoune, my dad,was that like so many other Algerian intellectuals,he refused to leave the countryand he continued to publish pointed criticisms,both of the fundamentalistsand sometimes of the government they battled.For example, in a November 1994 seriesin the newspaper El Watanentitled &quot;How FundamentalismProduced a Terrorism without Precedent,&quot;he denounced what he calledthe terrorists&#39; radical break with the true Islamas it was lived by our ancestors.These were words that could get you killed.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:在九十年代的黑暗十年，我父亲的祖国教会了我与穆斯林原教旨主义的普遍抗争是世界上最重要的也最被忽略的人权运动之一。这在将近20年后的今天依然是真的你看，在每一个你听说武装圣战分子（吉哈德）袭击平民的国家里，都有赤手空拳的大众在反抗那些你没有听说过的激进分子他们需要我们的支持, 以取得成功。
en:My father&#39;s country taught mein that dark decade of the 1990s thatthe popular struggle against Muslim fundamentalismis one of the most importantand overlooked human rights strugglesin the world.This remains true today, nearly 20 years later.You see, in every countrywhere you hear about armed jihadistargeting civilians,there are also unarmed peopledefying those militants that you don&#39;t hear about,and those people need our support to succeed.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:西方世界普遍认为穆斯林对恐怖主义是容忍的.有些右翼分子这样认为是因为他们将穆斯林文化看做是固有暴力的（文化）一些左翼分子这样想则是因为他们将穆斯林的暴力原教旨主义者的暴力全都看做是合法的申诉但是这两种观点都是致命的错误事实上，全世界许多穆斯林传统 的人们都是原教旨主义和恐怖主义的坚定反对者并且有着非常好的理由你们看，他们更像是这些暴力事件的受害者而并非行凶者让我来举一个例子根据一个2009年的调查基于阿拉伯语媒体的报道在2004年至2008年间仅仅有15%的基地组织受害者是西方人.这(也)很可怕，但是绝大部分被穆斯林原教旨主义者杀害的人是穆斯林人自己.
en:In the West, it&#39;s often assumedthat Muslims generally condone terrorism.Some on the right think this because they viewMuslim culture as inherently violent,and some on the left imagine thisbecause they view Muslim violence,fundamentalist violence,solely as a product of legitimate grievances.But both views are dead wrong.In fact, many people of Muslim heritagearound the world are staunch opponentsboth of fundamentalism and of terrorism,and often for very good reason.You see, they&#39;re much more likely to be victimsof this violence than its perpetrators.Let me just give you one example.According to a 2009 surveyof Arabic language media resources,between 2004 and 2008,no more than 15 percent of al Qaeda&#39;s victimswere Westerners.That&#39;s a terrible toll, but the vast majoritywere people of Muslim heritage,killed by Muslim fundamentalists.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:现在我已经讲了五分钟关于原教旨主义，你们有权利明确地知道我说的意思我引用了阿尔及利亚社会学家Marieme Helie Lucas 给出的定义她说原教旨主义们注意这个“们”， 所以在世界上所有的伟大的宗教传统里“原教旨主义是极端权利的政治运动在全球化操控宗教的背景下为了达到他们的政治目的”Sadia Abbas 将此称为激进的宗教体系政治化现在我想避免表达一个概念那就是有一块被称为穆斯林原教旨主义的巨石它在任何地方都一样因为这些运动同样也有它们 自身的差异有些使用并提倡暴力有些没有，尽管它们通常是相互关联的它们采取了不同的形式有些可能是非政府组织甚至在英国也有 Cageprisoners 这样的组织.有些可能是政治党派比如穆斯林兄弟会还有些可能是公开武装的组织比如塔利班但是无论如何，这些都是激进的计划它们不是保守的或者传统的方法它们大多是有关于改变人们与穆斯林之间的关系而不是保护（这种关系）我现在谈的是穆斯林极右势力而这种极右势力由于依附于穆斯林存在使得它们相对于其它极右势力显得并没有那么的极端.因此我认为，如果我们将自己看成自由主义者或者左翼分子人权拥护者或者男女平等主义者我们必须反对这些运动并且支持他们的草根反对者.我要明确一点,我支持一种针对原教旨主义的有力地反抗,但是这种反抗本身同时也必须尊重国际法,所以我所说的一切都不应该被认为是一种拒绝民主的辩护理由.并且在这里我发出呐喊支持今天在阿尔及利亚的巴拉卡特的民主运动.我说的任何话也不应该被认为是侵犯人权的辩护理由.就像这周早些时候，在埃及集中实行的死刑.我想要强调的是我们必须挑战这些穆斯林原教旨主义者的运动因为他们威胁了人权在穆斯林占人口大多数的环境下并且他们采用各种方法侵犯人权.最明显地是由武装组织直接袭击平民但是这种暴力行为只不过是冰山一角这些行动整体上提供了对于宗教少数以及性别少数的歧视他们想要剥夺宗教自由的权利对于每一个以不同形式实施的或者选择不去实施的人最典型的是，他们在女性权利上领导一场毫无保留的战争
en:Now I&#39;ve been talking for the last five minutesabout fundamentalism, and you have a right to knowexactly what I mean.I cite the definition given by the Algerian sociologistMarieme Helie Lucas,and she says that fundamentalisms,note the &quot;s,&quot; so within all of the world&#39;sgreat religious traditions,&quot;fundamentalisms are politicalmovements of the extreme rightwhich in a context of globalizationmanipulate religion in order to achievetheir political aims.&quot;Sadia Abbas has called this the radical politicizationof theology.Now I want to avoid projecting the notionthat there&#39;s sort of a monolith out therecalled Muslim fundamentalismthat is the same everywhere,because these movementsalso have their diversities.Some use and advocate violence.Some do not, though they&#39;re often interrelated.They take different forms.Some may be non-governmental organizations,even here in Britain like Cageprisoners.Some may become political parties,like the Muslim Brotherhood,and some may be openly armed groupslike the Taliban.But in any case, these are all radical projects.They&#39;re not conservative or traditional approaches.They&#39;re most often about changingpeople&#39;s relationship with Islamrather than preserving it.What I am talking about is the Muslim extreme right,and the fact that its adherents areor purport to be Muslimmakes them no less offensivethan the extreme right anywhere else.So in my view, if we consider ourselvesliberal or left-wing,human rights-loving or feminist,we must oppose these movementsand support their grassroots opponents.Now let me be clearthat I support an effective struggleagainst fundamentalism,but also a struggle that must itselfrespect international law,so nothing I am saying should be takenas a justification for refusalsto democratize,and here I send out a shout-out of supportto the pro-democracy movement in Algeria today, Barakat.Nor should anything I say be takenas a justification of violations of human rights,like the mass death sentenceshanded out in Egypt earlier this week.But what I am sayingis that we must challenge theseMuslim fundamentalist movementsbecause they threaten human rightsacross Muslim-majority contexts,and they do this in a range of ways,most obviously with the direct attacks on civiliansby the armed groups that carry those out.But that violence is just the tip of the iceberg.These movements as a whole purvey discriminationagainst religious minorities and sexual minorities.They seek to curtail the freedom of religionof everyone who either practices in a different wayor chooses not to practice.And most definingly, they lead an all-out waron the rights of women.
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:现在，面对这些运动在近几年里，西方媒体及民众最常见的两个见解都不是正确的。第一个是，站在右翼角度表明大多数穆斯林是原教旨主义或者关于穆斯林的有些东西是本身内在的原教旨主义这个观点具有攻击性而且是错的但不幸的是在左翼角度，一个人可能会碰到一种论述这种论述太过于政治上正确以至于一点儿也不承认穆斯林原教旨主义的问题或者，更有甚者，为此道歉这也是不能被接受的所以我要寻找的是一种新的方法来一起谈论所有这些这种方法来自于实际经验并且基于前线人民的希望我痛苦地意识到近些年对于穆斯林的歧视在增加在像英国或者美国这些国家而且这也是一个重大的焦点但是我坚信讲述这些反抗原教旨主义并且成为主要受害者的穆斯林传统人士的非老一套的故事也是反对这种歧视的一个很棒的方法所以现在请让我给大家介绍四个人，他们的故事让我怀着莫大的荣幸来讲述
en:Now, faced with these movementsin recent years, Western discoursehas most often offeredtwo flawed responses.The first that one sometimes finds on the rightsuggests that most Muslims are fundamentalistor something about Islam isinherently fundamentalist,and this is just offensive and wrong,but unfortunately on the leftone sometimes encountersa discourse that is too politically correctto acknowledge the problem ofMuslim fundamentalism at allor, even worse, apologizes for it,and this is unacceptable as well.So what I&#39;m seeking is a new wayof talking about this all together,which is grounded in the lived experiencesand the hope of the people on the front lines.I&#39;m painfully aware that there has beenan increase in discriminationagainst Muslims in recent yearsin countries like the U.K. and the U.S.,and that too is a matter of grave concern,but I firmly believethat telling these counter-stereotypical storiesof people of Muslim heritagewho have confronted the fundamentalistsand been their primary victimsis also a great way of countering that discrimination.So now let me introduce youto four people whose storiesI had the great honor of telling.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:Faizan Peerzada 和以他父亲命名的Rafi Peer 戏剧讲习班多年来一直在巴基斯坦推广表演艺术随着圣战分子暴力行为的增加他们开始收到电话威胁要求他们取消活动，他们对此不予理睬因此他们在08年第八届拉哈尔世界表演艺术节上遭到一颗炸弹袭击碎玻璃如雨落下砸在活动场地上伤到了9个人在同一天晚上晚些时候Peerzadas 做出了一项十分艰难的决定他们宣布艺术节将在原计划的第二天继续举行正如 Faizan 那时所说的如果我们向伊斯兰教徒鞠躬哈腰那我们将不见天日但是他们不知道将会发生什么还会有人出现么？而实际上，成千上万的人在随后一天出现在活动上来支持拉哈尔表演艺术而这同时振奋并吓到了Faizan他径直跑向一名带着自己两个孩子一同前往艺术节的妇女他说：你是知道昨天这里有炸弹袭击你也知道这里今天这里会遭到威胁，对吧然后她说：我知道但是我曾在小时候和我母亲来到过你的艺术节我现在依然还存留着那些记忆我们必须过来有着像这样坚定的观众使得 Peerzadas 家族能够如期为他们的艺术节画上句号
en:Faizan Peerzada and the Rafi Peer Theatreworkshop named for his fatherhave for years promoted the performing artsin Pakistan.With the rise of jihadist violence,they began to receive threatsto call off their events, which they refused to heed.And so a bomber struck their 2008eighth world performing arts festival in Lahore,producing rain of glassthat fell into the venueinjuring nine people,and later that same night,the Peerzadas made a very difficult decision:they announced that their festivalwould continue as planned the next day.As Faizan said at the time,if we bow down to the Islamists,we&#39;ll just be sitting in a dark corner.But they didn&#39;t know what would happen.Would anyone come?In fact, thousands of people came out the next dayto support the performing arts in Lahore,and this simultaneously thrilledand terrified Faizan,and he ran up to a womanwho had come in with her two small children,and he said, &quot;You do know therewas a bomb here yesterday,and you do know there&#39;s a threat here today.&quot;And she said, &quot;I know that,but I came to your festivalwith my mother when I was their age,and I still have those images in my mind.We have to be here.&quot;With stalwart audiences like this,the Peerzadas were able to concludetheir festival on schedule.
时间：10:23
zh-cn:然后在之后的一年他们失去了所有的赞助者由于安全风险所以当我2010年见到他们时他们正在准备一个后续活动这个活动将在同一地点举行即第九届青少年表演艺术节它在拉哈尔举办那一年这个城市已经遭受了44次恐怖袭击那时正值巴基斯坦塔利班开始将女子学校作为系统目标这将在对马拉拉的袭击中达到高潮那Peerzadas家族在那种环境下做了什么呢？他们筹划了女子学校的演出我获得了观看”Naang Wal&quot;的特权这是一部旁遮普语的音乐剧来自拉哈尔语法学校的女孩们出演了整部音乐剧她们又唱又跳他们扮演老鼠和水牛我屏息凝神，心里想着我们是否会看完这部精彩演出？当我们看完的时候所有观众集体松了一口气有些人其实都在哭泣之后他们平静的隆隆掌声响彻整个礼堂我记得在那一刻，我在想两年前投弹者在这里制造了头条新闻而今夜，这些人们和一个故事一样重要
en:And then the next year,they lost all of their sponsorsdue to the security risk.So when I met them in 2010,they were in the middle of the first subsequent eventthat they were able to have in the same venue,and this was the ninth youth performing arts festivalheld in Lahore in a year when that cityhad already experienced 44 terror attacks.This was a time when the Pakistani Talibanhad commenced their systematic targetingof girls&#39; schools that would culminatein the attack on Malala Yousafzai.What did the Peerzadas do in that environment?They staged girls&#39; school theater.So I had the privilege of watching &quot;Naang Wal,&quot;which was a musical in the Punjabi language,and the girls of Lahore Grammar Schoolplayed all the parts.They sang and danced,they played the mice and the water buffalo,and I held my breath, wondering,would we get to the endof this amazing show?And when we did, the whole audiencecollectively exhaled,and a few people actually wept,and then they filled the auditoriumwith the peaceful boom of their applause.And I remember thinking in that momentthat the bombers made headlines heretwo years beforebut this night and these peopleare as important a story.
时间：11:49
zh-cn:Maria Bashir 是第一位也是唯一一位阿富汗女性首席检察官她从2008开始就担任此职并且建立了一个办公室调查针对女性的暴力犯罪她自己说这是她任期内最重要的事情当我去她在 Herat 的办公室见她，她被四个保镖保护着保镖都全副武装。事实上，她有23名保镖，因为她已经经历过一次炸弹袭击她的孩子险些丧命，一名保镖的腿被炸飞了。
en:Maria Bashir is the first and onlywoman chief prosecutor in Afghanistan.She&#39;s been in the post since 2008and actually opened an office to investigatecases of violence against women,which she says is the most important areain her mandate.When I meet her in her office in Herat,she enters surrounded byfour large men with four huge guns.In fact, she now has 23 bodyguards,because she has weathered bomb attacksthat nearly killed her kids,and it took the leg off of one of her guards.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:为何她要坚持下去？她微笑着说，这个问题其实每个人都问过就象她说的那样，“你为什么要冒生命危险？”对于她而言这个答案很简单，为了跟她一样的女性能够有一个更好的未来，这个风险冒得值得而且她知道，如果她这样的人不去担起这份风险，未来一定不会比现在更好。在我们采访的后期，Bashir 检察官跟我说她现在很担心政府在跟塔利班谈判，后者一直想要暗杀她。“如果塔利班在政府中占了一席之地，”她问道，“谁来保护妇女的权利？”而且她敦促国际社会不要因为想要跟塔利班和谈就忘记了保障妇女权利的承诺在我离开阿富汗的几周后，我在网上看到一条突发消息。一名阿富汗检察官被暗杀了。我发疯的在网上搜索，谢天谢地我最终发现遇害的不是 Maria，虽然很悲痛的，另一位检察官倒在了他上班的路上。现在当我听到类似这样的新闻，我会想到从今年开始，多国部队会陆续撤出阿富汗，我们必须继续关心阿富汗人民的安全，继续关心所有像 Maria Bashirs 这样的人安全。有时候我会回想起她的话平淡朴实的话，“阿富汗妇女的生存环境”“终有一天会好起来。”“我们要为这一天的到来努力，”“即使我们可能会被杀掉。”
en:Why does she continue?She says with a smile that that is the questionthat everyone asks—as she puts it, &quot;Why you risk not living?&quot;And it is simply that for her,a better future for all the Maria Bashirs to comeis worth the risk,and she knows that if people like herdo not take the risk,there will be no better future.Later on in our interview,Prosecutor Bashir tells me how worried she isabout the possible outcomeof government negotiations with the Taliban,the people who have been trying to kill her.&quot;If we give them a place in the government,&quot;she asks, &quot;Who will protect women&#39;s rights?&quot;And she urges the international communitynot to forget its promise about womenbecause now they want peace with Taliban.A few weeks after I leave Afghanistan,I see a headline on the Internet.An Afghan prosecutor has been assassinated.I google desperately,and thankfully that day I find outthat Maria was not the victim,though sadly, another Afghan prosecutorwas gunned down on his way to work.And when I hear headlines like that now,I think that as international troopsleave Afghanistan this year and beyond,we must continue to careabout what happens to people there,to all of the Maria Bashirs.Sometimes I still hear her voice in my headsaying, with no bravado whatsoever,&quot;The situation of the women of Afghanistanwill be better someday.We should prepare the ground for this,even if we are killed.&quot;
时间：14:00
zh-cn:我找不到合适的词汇来谴责伊斯兰青年军恐怖组织他们在2013年9月袭击了肯尼亚首都内罗比的西门购物中心，那天那里正在举行儿童厨艺比赛67人被杀，包括诗人和孕妇。在千里之外的美国中西部，我很幸运地见到了一些索马里裔美国人他们当时正在努力阻止伊斯兰青年军从他们所在的明尼阿波里斯市招募一些年轻人参与到类似四门购物中心的惨剧。Abdirizak Bihi 的侄子17岁勤奋刻苦的 Burhan Hassan2008年的时候被招募，被带到索马里，在他尝试逃回家的时候被杀。从那时起， Bihi先生当时正在管理着没有预算的索马里教育和促进中心，开始公开地谴责这种招募行径斥责政府的无能斥责在美国的索马里机构例如 Abubakar As-Saddique 伊斯兰中心，他相信他的侄子就是在这个中心的青年计划中被洗脑的。但是他不仅仅谴责了宗教组织。他还把矛头指向了政府，因为他们没有能够带领他所在的社区脱贫。因为 Bihi 先生自己也是超穷的，他必须拿出点新的想法来。为了阻止伊斯兰青年军招募更多的愤怒的青年，在该组织2010年袭击了乌干达的世界杯观众之后，他迅速地在明尼阿波里斯市组织了一场斋月篮球锦标赛作为回应。许多索马里裔美国小孩不顾宗教禁忌加入到这场体育中来。他们在玩的篮球是 Burhan Hassan 再也无法触及的。因为他的这些行为，他被Abubakar As-Saddique 伊斯兰中心的领袖斥责，他们曾经保持着良好的关系。他告诉我，“有一天我们在电视上看到伊玛目，（译注，清真寺内率众作礼拜的领袖）称我们是异教徒，并且说，‘这些家庭想要毁掉穆斯林。’”对于 Abdirizak Bihi 来说，这些话彻头彻尾的无法理解因为他正在做的是将伊斯兰青年党的招募计划暴露出来，为的是能够阻止一小撮极端分子破坏我所热爱的宗教。
en:There are no words adequateto denounce the al Shabaab terroristswho attacked the Westgate Mall in Nairobion the same day as a children&#39;s cooking competitionin September of 2013.They killed 67, including poets and pregnant women.Far away in the American Midwest,I had the good fortune of meeting Somali-Americanswho were working to counterthe efforts of al Shabaabto recruit a small number of young peoplefrom their city of Minneapolisto take part in atrocities like Westgate.Abdirizak Bihi&#39;s studious17-year-old nephew Burhan Hassanwas recruited here in 2008,spirited to Somalia,and then killed when he tried to come home.Since that time, Mr. Bihi,who directs the no-budget SomaliEducation and Advocacy Center,has been vocally denouncing the recruitmentand the failures of governmentand Somali-American institutionslike the Abubakar As-Saddique Islamic Centerwhere he believes his nephew was radicalizedduring a youth program.But he doesn&#39;t just criticize the mosque.He also takes on the governmentfor its failure to do moreto prevent poverty in his community.Given his own lack of financial resources,Mr. Bihi has had to be creative.To counter the efforts of al Shabaabto sway more disaffected youth,in the wake of the group&#39;s 2010 attackon World Cup viewers in Uganda,he organized a Ramadan basketball tournamentin Minneapolis in response.Scores of Somali-American kids came outto embrace sportdespite the fatwa against it.They played basketballas Burhan Hassan never would again.For his efforts, Mr. Bihi has been ostracizedby the leadership of the AbubakarAs-Saddique Islamic Center,with which he used to have good relations.He told me, &quot;One day we saw the imam on TVcalling us infidels and saying,&#39;These families are trying to destroy the mosque.&#39;&quot;This is at complete oddswith how Abdirizak Bihi understandswhat he is trying to doby exposing al Shabaab recruitment,which is to save the religion I lovefrom a small number of extremists.
时间：16:15
zh-cn:现在我想跟你们说最后一个故事，一个阿尔及利亚的22岁法学院学生名叫 Amel Zenoune-Zouani她有着跟90年代的我一样的律师梦。她没有放弃学业，虽然原教义主义者已经占领了阿尔及利亚首都威胁着所有坚持学业的人的安全。1997年1月26日，在首都阿尔及尔求学的 Amel坐上了一辆回家的公交车与家人一起过斋月，从此再也没有能够完成学业。当公交车到了郊外靠近她家的地方，被伊斯兰武装人员设立的检查站拦截了下来。因为带着书包，Amel 被从车上拽了下来当街被杀死。割断她喉咙的那个人告诉其他的乘客，“如果你们再去大学，总有一天我们会杀掉你们，就像她一样。”
en:Now I want to tell one last story,that of a 22-year-old law student in Algerianamed Amel Zenoune-Zouaniwho had the same dreams of a legal careerthat I did back in the &#39;90s.She refused to give up her studies,despite the fact that the fundamentalistsbattling the Algerian state back thenthreatened all who continued their education.On January 26, 1997, Amel boarded the busin Algiers where she was studyingto go home and spend a Ramadan eveningwith her family,and would never finish law school.When the bus reached the outskirtsof her hometown, it was stoppedat a checkpoint manned by menfrom the Armed Islamic Group.Carrying her schoolbag,Amel was taken off the busand killed in the street.The men who cut her throatthen told everyone else,&quot;If you go to university,the day will come when we will kill all of youjust like this.&quot;
时间：17:15
zh-cn:Amel 死于下午5点17分，我们之所以知道，是因为当她摔倒在街上的时候她的手表碎了。她的妈妈给我看了这块手表手表的秒表依然是乐观的指着上方指向不会到来的5点18分。就在她死前几天，Amel 还在跟她的妈妈和她的姐姐说，“一切都会好起来的，印沙安拉，真主保佑（译注：印沙安拉是穆斯林用语，意为“如果安拉允许的话”或“如蒙天佑”）但是如果真有不测我们要记住，我们是为求知而死。你们，还有父亲，要骄傲的活下去。
en:Amel died at exactly 5:17 p.m.,which we know because when she fell in the street,her watch broke.Her mother showed me the watchwith the second hand still aimedoptimistically upwardtowards a 5:18 that would never come.Shortly before her death,Amel had said to her mother of herselfand her sisters,&quot;Nothing will happen to us, Inshallah, God willing,but if something happens,you must know that we are dead for knowledge.You and father must keep your heads held high.&quot;
时间：17:47
zh-cn:这位年轻女性的死，影响是十分深远的，当我从事我的研究时我发现自己在寻找的，正是Amel的希望，而她的名字（Amel）在阿拉伯语中就是“希望”的代名词。我想我在两个地方发现了她的存在。首先来自于她的家庭所具备的勇气，以及所有在这种环境下坚持表达自己观点即使有恐怖主义威胁也要坚持自己生活的家庭。事实上 Amel 的妹妹 Lamia 从悲痛中走了出来，也去读了法学院，而且现在成为阿尔及尔的一名律师，这样的事情发生，是因为原教义武装力量在全国范围内被击退了。第二个我发现Amel的希望存在的地方是那些在各地继续抵抗吉哈德的男人和女人们。我们必须要支持这些以实际行动向Amel致敬的人权斗士们像是“穆斯林法制下的妇女联盟”这样的团体这些还不够，正如 Cherifa Kheddar，关注阿尔及尔受害者权益促进的人告诉我的那样，打击恐怖主义远远不够。我们必须挑战原教义主义，因为原教义主义的信条是恐怖主义的温床。
en:The loss of such a young woman is unfathomable,and so as I did my researchI found myself searching for Amel&#39;s hope againand her name even means &quot;hope&quot; in Arabic.I think I found it in two places.The first is in the strength of her familyand all the other families tocontinue telling their storiesand to go on with their lives despite the terrorism.In fact, Amel&#39;s sister Lamia overcame her grief,went to law school,and practices as a lawyer in Algiers today,something which is only possiblebecause the armed fundamentalistswere largely defeated in the country.And the second place I found Amel&#39;s hopewas everywhere that women and mencontinue to defy the jihadis.We must support all of those in honor of Amelwho continue this human rights struggle today,like the Network of WomenLiving Under Muslim Laws.It is not enough, as the victims rights advocateCherifa Kheddar told me in Algiers,it is not enough just to battle terrorism.We must also challenge fundamentalism,because fundamentalism is the ideologythat makes the bed of this terrorism.
时间：18:57
zh-cn:为什么向她这样的人，以上这些人，都很少有人知晓？为什么每个人都知道奥萨马·本·拉登是谁却很少有人知道这些人这些在他们自己的生活中抵抗本·拉登的人。我们必须改变，所以我请求你通过你的朋友圈，你的网络分享这些故事。再看一眼 Amel Zenoune 的手表，永远的停在那里，现在请看看你自己的手表此刻，请你拿出自己的付出帮助Amel这样的人。我们并没有权利保持沉默，尽管这样会更轻松，也不能因为西方世界的政策也同样存在问题（而沉默），因为5点17分这个时刻还会到来在尼日利亚北部这样的地区还有太多的 Amel Zenounes，在被吉哈德杀死。发出呐喊，支持和帮助那些以和平手段与原教义主义者和恐怖主义在自己家园进行抗争的人的时机就是现在。
en:Why is it that people like her, like all of themare not more well known?Why is it that everyone knowswho Osama bin Laden wasand so few know of all of thosestanding up to the bin Ladens in their own contexts.We must change that, and so I ask youto please help share these storiesthrough your networks.Look again at Amel Zenoune&#39;s watch,forever frozen,and now please look at your own watchand decide this is the moment that you committo supporting people like Amel.We don&#39;t have the right to be silent about thembecause it is easieror because Western policy is flawed as well,because 5:17 is still comingto too many Amel Zenounesin places like northern Nigeria,where jihadis still kill students.The time to speak up in support of all of thosewho peacefully challenge fundamentalismand terrorism in their own communitiesis now.
时间：19:54
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：19:56
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
