时间： 0:13
zh-cn:你好，给你们当中没有见过舞蹈熊的人看看这就是舞蹈熊在1995年我们发起了一个为期两年的调查研究课题我们试着去调查事情的来龙去脉因为野生的sloth熊数量显著下降，近乎绝迹正因为如此这就是卡拉海尔人，他们是一个不起眼的伊斯兰族分支他们生活在印度的各地从十三世纪开始，他们就已经生活在印度了
en:Hi. For those of you who haven&#39;t seen dancing bears,these are the dancing bears.In 1995, we started working on a two-year investigative research projectto try and find out what was going on.Because the sloth bears in the wild were obviously getting depletedbecause of this.This is the Qalandar community. They are a marginalized Islamic communitywho live across India,and have been in India since the 13th century.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:我们开始寻找证据来弄清楚到底发生了什么这是一段通过隐藏在纽扣里的摄像机拍摄到的画面我们进门，装作是买家我们正是在这个地方，卡纳塔克邦发现了这样的交易熊仔从全国各地搜罗而来被买卖这些熊仔卖价大约每只2000美元他们将被用来做熊掌汤的可能将来还会被训练成为你刚刚看到的舞蹈熊
en:We went about getting evidence of what was going on.And this is footage from a hidden camera in a button.And we went in, pretending to be buyers.And we found this right in this very state, in Karnataka.And the bear cubs were being harvested from across the countryand being sold and traded.These were being sold for about 2,000 dollars each,and they are used for bear paw soup,and also being trained, later on,to become dancing bears like the one you just saw.
时间： 1:04
zh-cn:令人心痛的是，卡拉海尔人的生计却还要指望这些熊这夫妇俩还不到18岁你可以看见，他们身边却已经有了四个孩子，整个家庭的经济支柱，生活来源就是这些动物所以，我们必须要以切合实际并且有可持续性的方法来对待这个问题
en:Sadly, the family of Qalandars depended on this bear.The couple are barely 18 years old.They already have four children beside them. You can see them.And the economy of the family and their livelihood depended on those animals.So, we had to deal with it in a very practical and sustainable manner.
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:眼下，我们展开了更加深入的工作，更深度的调查我们发现（以熊为生）是违法行为他们可能会为此付出最高七年的牢狱之灾如果被相关部门抓住的话他们对熊所做的种种行为实在是骇人听闻令人无法接受通常熊妈妈会被杀死熊仔们被盗走，各自分离他们的牙齿会被用铁棍敲掉然后，他们的鼻孔会被烧红的铁杵穿洞现在，我们要开始改变那些人，让他们停止以做那些事来谋生，去做其他的事情
en:Now, when we started working deeper and digging deeper,we found that it&#39;s an illegal act.These guys could go to jail for up to seven yearsif they were caught by authorities.And what they were doing to the bears was really appalling.It was unacceptable.The mother bears are usually killed.The cubs, which are taken, are separated.Their teeth are basically bashed out with a metal rod.And they use a red hot iron needle to make a hole through the muzzle.Now we had to start changing these people and converting them from using thatfor a livelihood, to getting something else.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:这是Bitu Kalander,他是我们的第一个“实验品”到底这能不能行?我们实在没有把握当时我们的确没有把握，但我们还是说服了他我们说：“好，这是一些启动资金看看你能不能做些什么”接着他把熊交给了我们我们建立了保护基地，在全印度我们有四所保护基地他现在高速公路边卖冷饮他经营一个电话亭
en:So, this is Bitu Qalandar, who was our first experiment.And we were so unsure that this would work.We weren&#39;t sure at all. And we managed to convince him.And we said, &quot;Okay, here is some seed fund.Let&#39;s see if you can get something else.&quot; And we got the bear surrenderedto — we set up a sanctuary. We have four sanctuaries in India.And now he sells cool drinks, he&#39;s by the highway.He has a telephone booth.
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:当这一切发生时，再也没有回头路了这是Sadua，他来找我们，把他的熊交给了我们而现在他经营着一个牛饲料店和谷物店在印度北部阿格拉城附近对我们所有人来说，这正是义无反顾的了我们提供人力三轮车我们建起了地毯编制单位为妇女提供职业训练这些妇女们以前是不允许离开住宅区工作的我们也在设法解决这个情况
en:And then it started, there was no turning back after that.This is Sadua who came and surrendered his bear.And now he runs a cattle fodder store and a grain storenear Agra.Then there was no looking back at all for us.We gave cycle rickshaws.We set up carpet-weaving units,vocational training for the women.The women were just not allowed to come out of the communityand work with mainstream society. So, we were able to address that.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:教育。这些孩子从没有机会上学只有少的可怜的伊斯兰教育他们的上学的权利被剥夺了因为他们也要赚钱养家。正因如此，我们想办法提供教育如今，我们为600个孩子提供教育资助我们为他们光明的未来创造了条件
en:Education. The kids never went to school.They only had Islamic education, very little of it.And they were never allowed to go to schoolbecause they were an extra earning hand at home. So we managed to get education.So, we sponsor 600 children education programs today.We were able to ensure brighter futures for these people.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:当然，我们还是要拯救这些熊这是当时熊刚来时的状况只是经过转变后的现在在拯救中心我们有专门的兽医机构大概的情况是：2002年有一万两千只“舞蹈熊”其中我们拯救了超过五百五十只我们为这些熊和以它们为生的人们提供了更好的将来
en:Of course we also had to get the bears in.This is what happens to the bears when they come in.And this is what we turn them into.We have a veterinary facility in our rescue centers.So, basically in 2002 there were1,200 dancing bears.We rescued over 550 dancing bears.We&#39;ve been able to ensure better futures for the people and the bears.
时间： 3:13
zh-cn:今天，我们有一个重大的消息要宣布那就是，下个月印度最后一只舞蹈熊也将要被我们的拯救中心收容（掌声）整个印度再也不用目睹这种持续了上百年的残忍而野蛮的行为了整个印度再也不用目睹这种持续了上百年的残忍而野蛮的行为了为此人们可以感到骄傲卡拉海尔人可以从他们一代代经历的残忍而野蛮的历史中走出来卡拉海尔人可以从他们一代代经历的残忍而野蛮的历史中走出来理所当然的，而那些美丽的熊可以重新在野外生活了这些熊再也不会被捕捉被带走这样我们的孩子们和小熊仔们都可以过上安静平和的生活了。（掌声）
en:The big news that I want to announce todayis that next month we will be bringing inthe very last bear of India,into our rescue center.(Applause)And India will no longer have to witness this cruel barbaric practicewhich has been here for centuries.And the people can hold their heads up high.And the Qalandar people will rise above all this cruel barbaric pastthat they&#39;ve lived all their lives.And the beautiful bears can of course live in the wild again.And there will be no more removing of these bears.And the children, both humans and bear cubscan live peacefully. Thank you.(Applause)
