时间： 0:11
zh-cn:1987年，蒂娜罗德发现自己深陷困境。所以，这个拜金女决定在善良的科德 罗伯特继承百万遗产之前嫁给他。但当科德发现她爱他的钱财，和爱他一样多时，他甩了她。科德的妈妈玛利亚很开心直到他们又搞在一起。所以玛利亚雇了马克思 赫登引诱蒂娜，并确保科德不知道蒂娜怀了他的孩子。所以蒂娜还是嫁了，但觉得科德不爱她了，所以就和马克思飞到阿根廷。科德后来知道发生了什么事，前去追赶他们，但为时已晚。当时蒂娜已经被绑架，她被绑在一条筏上，冲下了瀑布。她和孩子被推断已经死亡。科德有点伤心，但是他恢复的很快，和一个叫卡特的聪明考古学家在一起了，他们举行了一场美丽的婚礼，直到被认为死亡的蒂娜抱着一个婴儿冲进教堂，“停！”她尖叫，“我来晚了吗？科德，我克服万难回来了。这是你的儿子。”
en:In 1987, Tina Lordfound herself in quite the pickle.See, this gold digger made sureshe married sweet Cord Robertsjust before he inherited millions.But when Cord found outTina loved his moneyas much as she loved him,he dumped her.Cord&#39;s mother Maria was thrilleduntil they hooked up again.So Maria hired Max Holden to romance Tinaand then made sure Cord didn&#39;t find outTina was pregnant with his baby.So Tina, still marriedbut thinking Cord didn&#39;t love herflew to Argentina with Max.Cord finally figured out what was going onand rushed after them,but he was too late.Tina had already been kidnapped,strapped to a raftand sent over a waterfall.She and her baby were presumed dead.Cord was sad for a bit,but then he bounced right backwith a supersmartarchaeologist named Kate,and they had a gorgeous weddinguntil Tina, seemingly back from the dead,ran into the church holding a baby.&quot;Stop!&quot; she screamed.&quot;Am I too late?Cord, I&#39;ve come so far.This is your son.&quot;
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:而这，女士们先生们，这就是肥皂剧《只此一生》，一个持续了25年的爱情故事。
en:And that, ladies and gentlemen,is how the soap opera &quot;One Life to Live&quot;introduced a love storythat lasted 25 years.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:如果你看过肥皂剧，你就会知道那些故事和角色可能很夸张，超出实际，如果你是一个粉丝，你会发现这种夸张很有意思，如果你不是粉丝，你会发现它们很情绪化和肤浅。可能你觉得看肥皂剧是浪费时间，夸张的剧情意味着没什么教育目的或甚至根本不存在。但是我相信，反过来说才是对的。肥皂剧反映了人生，只是夸张些。因為我们能从肥皂剧中学到真实的人生道理，而这些道理与肥皂剧剧情一样夸张且新奇。
en:Now, if you&#39;ve ever seen a soap opera,you know the stories and the characterscan be exaggerated, larger than life,and if you&#39;re a fan,you find that exaggeration fun,and if you&#39;re not,maybe you find themmelodramatic or unsophisticated.Maybe you think watching soap operasis a waste of time,that their bigness meanstheir lessons are small or nonexistent.But I believe the opposite to be true.Soap operas reflect life, just bigger.So there are real life lessonswe can learn from soap operas,and those lessonsare as big and adventurousas any soap opera storyline.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:我是个大粉丝，从二年级开始，我每天从车站跑回家就为了看卢克和罗拉婚礼的故事结局，那是《综合医院》这场戏剧的重大时刻。
en:Now, I&#39;ve been a fan since I ran homefrom the bus stop in second gradedesperate to catch the endof Luke and Laura&#39;s wedding,the biggest momentin &quot;General Hospital&quot; history.
时间： 2:16
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:所以你可以想象我多么热爱担任《地球照转》八年的助理导演。我的工作是看肥皂剧，阅读肥皂剧本并面试肥皂剧演员。所以我知道自己在干嘛。
en:So you can imaginehow much I loved my eight yearsas the assistant casting directoron &quot;As the World Turns.&quot;My job was watching soap operas,reading soap opera scriptsand auditioning actorsto be on soap operas.So I know my stuff.
时间： 2:32
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:是的，肥皂剧比现实生活要夸张，更大程度的戏剧化，但是我们的生活也可以一样紧张、利害关系也可以一样戏剧化。人生当中不断的悲欢离合就像那些角色一样。我们跨越困境，与恶魔斗争和在无意中找到了救赎，而且我们一次又一次的做这样的事情，但是就像肥皂剧，我们可以改变局面，也就是说，我们可以从這些像大黄蜂一样，被生活忙的团团转的角色身上学到东西。我们可以用这些教训，刻画出我们自己的人生故事。肥皂剧教我们不要怀疑并相信自己勇敢、脆弱、适应及恢复的能力。最重要的，它们告诉我们要改变自己的故事永远不会太晚。
en:And yes, soap operasare larger than life,drama on a grand scale,but our lives can be filledwith as much intensity,and the stakes can feel just as dramatic.We cycle through tragedy and joyjust like these characters.We cross thresholds, fight demonsand find salvation unexpectedly,and we do it again and again and again,but just like soaps,we can flip the script,which means we can learnfrom these charactersthat move like bumblebees,looping and swerving through life.And we can use those lessonsto craft our own life stories.Soap operas teach us to push away doubtand believe in our capacityfor bravery, vulnerability,adaptability and resilience.And most importantly, they show usit&#39;s never too late to change your story.
时间： 3:30
zh-cn:所以，我们从肥皂剧的第一课开始：投降不是选择。
en:So with that, let&#39;s startwith soap opera lesson one:surrender is not an option.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:《我的孩子们》的艾瑞卡 卡恩是电视版的斯佳丽 奥哈拉，一个夸张、以自我为中心的公主她的内心深处是好斗和大胆。艾瑞卡在她41年的电视生涯中，可能是最出名的场景就是：她独自在森林里突然和一个灰熊面对面。她朝灰熊大喊：“你不能这样！你听不懂吗？你不能靠近我！我是艾瑞卡 卡恩而你是一个卑劣的野兽！”
en:&quot;All My Children&quot;&#39;s Erica Kanewas daytime&#39;s version of Scarlett O&#39;Hara,a hyperbolically self-important princesswho deep down was scrappy and daring.Now, in her 41 years on TV,perhaps Erica&#39;s most famous sceneis her alone in the woodssuddenly face to face with a grizzly bear.She screamed at the bear,&quot;You may not do this!Do you understand me?You may not come near me!I am Erica Kaneand you are a filthy beast!&quot;
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:当然，灰熊离开了，所以这教会我们人生总会有障碍但我们可以选择投降，或者站出来斗争。
en:And of course the bear left,so what that teaches usis obstacles are to be expectedand we can choose to surrenderor we can stand and fight.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:潘多拉的蒂姆 韦斯特格伦最了解这个道理。你甚至可以叫他硅谷的艾瑞卡 卡恩。蒂姆和其他联合创始人集资了两百万，成立公司。但他们在第二年就用光了资金。很多公司都在那个时候放弃，但是蒂姆选择斗争。他刷爆11张信用卡，背负了六位数的债务，但这还不够。两年来每两周发工资的那天，他都会站在他的员工前请求他们放弃他们的工资，这有了成效。超过50个人贡献了两百万美金，现在，十多年后。潘多拉的估值高达几十亿。当你相信有办法可以解决你眼前所面对的任何问题时，投降不是一个选择，你可以克服巨大的障碍。
en:Pandora&#39;s Tim Westergrenknows this better than most.You might even call himthe Erica Kane of Silicon Valley.Tim and his cofounderslaunched the companywith two million dollars in funding.They were out of cash the next year.Now, lots of companies fold at that point,but Tim chose to fight.He maxed out 11 credit cardsand racked up six figures in personal debtand it still wasn&#39;t enough.So every two weeks for two years on paydayhe stood in front of his employeesand he asked themto sacrifice their salaries,and it worked.More than 50 people deferredtwo million dollars,and now, more than a decade later,Pandora is worth billions.When you believe that there is a wayaround or throughwhatever is in front of you,that surrender is not an option,you can overcome enormous obstacles.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:來到肥皂剧的第二课：放下你的自大和高人一等的情绪。
en:Which brings us to soap opera lesson two:sacrifice your egoand drop the superiority complex.
时间： 5:19
zh-cn:这有点可怕。这是对人性需求和错误的认知。可能这甚至是对我们自己并没有想象中那样特殊的覺悟。《大胆而美丽》的斯坦芬尼 福瑞斯特认为她自己非常特殊。她觉得她特殊到不需要和来自村庄的普通人往来，她还警告村庄的女孩布鲁克要知道这点。但是在快25年的史诗般的斗争后，斯坦芬尼生病了，让布鲁克进入了她的内心。她们重修旧好，從敌人变成了灵魂伴侣，最后斯坦芬尼死在布鲁克的怀里，这就是我们学到的：放下你的自大。人生谈的不是你，人生谈的我们，谈的是我们享受快乐、爱情和改善现状的能力，只有在我们最脆弱的时候，承担起我们所作所为的责任以及不作为的责任。有点像霍华德 舒尔茨，星巴克的CEO，
en:Now, this is scary.It&#39;s an acknowledgmentof need or fallibility.Maybe it&#39;s even an admissionthat we&#39;re not as specialas we might like to think.Stephanie Forresterof &quot;The Bold and the Beautiful&quot;thought she was pretty darn special.She thought she was so special,she didn&#39;t need to mixwith the riffraff from the valley,and she made surevalley girl Brooke knew it.But after nearly 25 yearsof epic fighting,Stephanie got sick and let Brooke in.They made amends,archenemies became soul matesand Stephanie died in Brooke&#39;s arms,and here&#39;s our takeaway.Drop your ego.Life is not about you.It&#39;s about us,and our ability to experience joyand love and to improve our realitycomes only when we makeourselves vulnerableand we accept responsibilityfor our actionsand our inactions,kind of like Howard Schultz,the CEO of Starbucks.
时间： 6:17
zh-cn:在結束了偉大的 CEO 任职后，霍华德在2000年辞职，但星巴克因迅速地过度扩张，造成股价下跌。霍华德在2008年重新加入团队，他做的第一件事，就是向18万员工道歉。他向员工道歉，并寻求帮助、真诚和建议。现在，自从霍华德归队后，星巴克的净利润超过两倍。所以放下自己对正确和安全的渴望，並不会帮助到任何人，也帮不了自己。放下你的自大。
en:Now, after a great run as CEO,Howard stepped down in 2000,and Starbucks quickly overextended itselfand stock prices fell.Howard rejoined the team in 2008,and one of the first things he didwas apologize to all 180,000 employees.He apologized.And then he asked for help,honesty, and ideas in return.And now, Starbucks has more than doubledits net revenue since Howard came back.So sacrifice your desireto be right or safe all the time.It&#39;s not helping anyone, least of all you.Sacrifice your ego.
时间： 6:58
zh-cn:肥皂剧课程三：进化是現实的。并不是要你去当一位一层不变的次要角色。在电视圈，一层不变意味着无聊，无聊意味着随时会被解雇。角色应该有成长和变化。在电视上，那些充滿變數的改变，可以创造出一些剧烈的转变，特别是当一个角色昨天是一个演员，今天却是另一个演员。在肥皂剧里，角色重塑是很常见的。过去的20年里，四个不同的演员都扮演过《综合医院》的重要角色，卡莉 本森。每一个崭新的脸庞都引发了角色的生活和人格的变化。虽然卡莉的本质还在，但是角色和故事都要适应扮演她的人。
en:Soap opera lesson three:evolution is real.You&#39;re not meant to be static characters.On television, static equals boringand boring equals fired.Characters are supposedto grow and change.Now, on TV, those dynamic changescan make for some rough transitions,particularly when a characteris played by one person yesterdayand played by someone new today.Recasting happens all the time on soaps.Over the last 20 years,four different actorshave played the same key roleof Carly Benson on &quot;General Hospital.&quot;Each new face triggered a changein the character&#39;s life and personality.Now, there was alwaysan essential nugget of Carly in there,but the character and the storyadapted to whomever was playing her.
时间： 7:50
zh-cn:对我们来说，这意味着虽然我们不能在生活中变换面容，但我们可以进化。我们可以选择画地自限，或者我们可以向机会敞开心扉，像卡莉，从一个护士专业学生变成酒店业主，像朱莉娅 查尔得，
en:And here&#39;s what that means for us.While we may not swap facesin our own lives,we can evolve too.We can choose to draw a circlearound our feet and stay in that spot,or we can open ourselves to opportunitieslike Carly, who wentfrom nursing student to hotel owner,or like Julia Child.
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:朱莉娅是一个二战间谍，当战争结束候，她结了婚、搬到法国，并决定去烹饪学校学习。朱莉娅，她的书和电视节目颠覆了美国烹饪的方式。
en:Julia was a World War II spy,and when the war ended,she got married, moved to France,and decided to giveculinary school a shot.Julia, her books and her TV showsrevolutionized the way America cooks.
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:我们在生活中，都有启动改变的能力，为了进化和适应环境，我们做出选择，但有时候我们不得不向生活低头，意外扇了你一个耳光，你躺在地板上，不知所措，你需要恢復知觉。
en:We all have the powerto initiate change in our lives,to evolve and adapt.We make the choice,but sometimes life chooses for us,and we don&#39;t get a heads up.Surprise slams us in the face.You&#39;re flat on the ground,the air is gone,and you need resuscitation.
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:所以，感谢肥皂剧的第四课：重生是有可能的。
en:So thank goodnessfor soap opera lesson four:resurrection is possible.
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:1983年，《我们的日子》的斯特凡诺 德米拉死于中风，但那不是真的，因为在1984年他因车子掉进海港而死亡，但是他在1985年带着脑瘤复活了。
en:In 1983, &quot;Days of Our Lives&quot;&#39;Stefano DiMera died of a stroke,but not really, because in 1984he died when his carplunged into the harbor,and yet he was back in 1985with a brain tumor.
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:在肿瘤杀死他之前，马里拉朝他开枪，他摔进狭窄巷道死亡。而这花了30年。
en:But before the tumor could kill him,Marlena shot him, and he tumbledoff a catwalk to his death.And so it went for 30 years.
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 9:24
zh-cn:当我们看到他的尸体，我们很清楚，他被称作凤凰是有原因的。这对我们的意义是，只要剧还在播出，或者你还在呼吸。没什么是不变的。重生是有可能的。
en:Even when we saw the body,we knew better.He&#39;s called the Phoenix for a reason.And here&#39;s what that means for us.As long as the show is still on the air,or you&#39;re still breathing,nothing is permanent.Resurrection is possible.
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:当然，就像生活一样，肥皂剧总会有大结局。CBS在2009年12月取消了我的肥皂剧——《地球照转》，我们在2010年6月，录制了最后一集。在那痛苦的六个月当中，我的人生看不到光明。即使我们的经济仍在衰退，百万人挣扎着寻找工作，但我觉得一切都会变好。我带着孩子，离开布鲁克林的公寓，和亲家一起居住在阿拉巴马州。
en:Now, of course, just like life,soap operas do ultimatelymeet the big finale.CBS canceled my show,&quot;As The World Turns,&quot; in December 2009,and we shot our final episodein June 2010.It was six months of dyingand I rode that trainright into the mountain.And even though we werein the middle of a huge recessionand millions of peoplewere struggling to find work,I somehow thought everything would be OK.So I packed up the kidsand the Brooklyn apartment,and we moved in with my in-lawsin Alabama.
时间：10:20
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:23
zh-cn:三个月后，没有好转的迹象。在我看了最后一集的播出後，我意识到不仅那个电视剧结束了，我也失业了。我没有了工作，住在亲家的二楼。真的有够难受的。
en:Three months later, nothing was OK.That was when I watchedthe final episode air,and I realized the showwas not the only fatality.I was one too.I was unemployedand living on the second floorof my in-laws&#39; home,and that&#39;s enoughto make anyone feel dead inside.
时间：10:45
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:47
zh-cn:但是我知道我的故事还没有结束，也不会结束。我只要运用我从肥皂剧里学到的所有东西。我要像艾瑞卡一样勇敢并拒绝投降。所以每天，我都会做一个斗争的决定。我要像斯坦芬尼一样脆弱，放下自大。我要在很多州寻求很多帮助。我需要像卡莉一样善于适应并进化我的技能、思考和境遇，然后我还要像斯特凡诺一样顽强，使我自己和我的职业重生就像凤凰涅槃一样。
en:But I knew my story wasn&#39;t over,that it couldn&#39;t be over.I just had to tap into everythingI had ever learned about soap operas.I had to be brave like Ericaand refuse to surrender,so every day, I made a decision to fight.I had to be vulnerable like Stephanieand sacrifice my ego.I had to ask for helpa lot of times across many states.I had to be adaptable like Carlyand evolve my skills,my mindset, and my circumstances,and then I had to beresilient, like Stefano,and resurrect myself and my careerlike a phoenix from the ashes.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:最后，我得到了一个面试。在新闻和娱乐界工作了15年，失业了9个月在这次面试之后，我得到了一个入门级别的工作机会，我当时已经37岁，我复活重生。
en:Eventually I got an interview.After 15 years in news and entertainment,nine months of unemploymentand this one interview,I had an offer for an entry level job.I was 37 years oldand I was back from the dead.
时间：11:49
zh-cn:我们都会经历人生低潮，我们可以选择让低潮成为一个起点。像蒂娜，奇迹般地从瀑布中存活下来，因为我不喜欢剧情有悬念，蒂娜和科德真的离婚了，但是他们在2012年剧终之前结了三次婚。
en:We will all experiencewhat looks like an ending,and we can choose to make it a beginning.Kind of like Tina, who miraculouslysurvived that waterfall,and because I hate to leavea cliffhanger hanging,Tina and Cord did get divorced,but they got remarried three timesbefore the show went off the air in 2012.
时间：12:10
zh-cn:所以记住，只要你还有一口气在，改变你的故事永远不会太晚。
en:So remember,as long as there is breath in your body,it&#39;s never too late to change your story.
时间：12:18
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间：12:19
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
