时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这是鹿特丹的自然历史博物馆，我在这里行馆长之职。我的工作就是确保这些收藏品完好，展品越来越丰富，这意味着我收集一些死去的动物。回溯到1995年，博物馆旁边建了一座辅楼。它是由玻璃制作的，这个建筑非常好的帮助我改善工作。因为这个建筑是个不折不扣的鸟类杀手。你们知道有玻璃，而那些鸟类却不知道它们根本看不出来，于是撞上玻璃而身亡。我唯一需要做的就是走出去，将它们捡起来，然后填些东西制成标本。（笑声）在那些日子里，我渐渐有了闻声识鸟的能力只需要通过分辨鸟撞上玻璃时，不同的“呯”。
en:This is the Natural History Museum in Rotterdam,where I work as a curator.It&#39;s my job to make sure the collection stays okay,and that it grows,and basically it means I collect dead animals.Back in 1995,we got a new wing next to the museum.It was made of glass,and this building really helped me to do my job good.The building was a true bird-killer.You may know that birds don&#39;t understandthe concept of glass. They don&#39;t see it,so they fly into the windows and get killed.The only thing I had to do was go out,pick them up, and have them stuffed for the collection.(Laughter)And in those days,I developed an ear to identify birdsjust by the sound of the bangs they made against the glass.
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:那是在1995年的6月5日，我听到物体撞上玻璃时巨大的“呯”声它改变了我的生命，也终结了一个鸭子的生命。这就是我当时所看到的窗子这就是那只死去的鸭子，它撞上了玻璃肚皮朝下死去了。但是贴着死去的鸭子是一只活着的鸭子，请各位仔细看这两只都是雄性接下来发生的活着的鸭子爬上了死去的鸭子身上，然后开始交配。
en:And it was on June 5, 1995,that I heard a loud bang against the glassthat changed my life and ended that of a duck.And this is what I saw when I looked out of the window.This is the dead duck. It flew against the window.It&#39;s laying dead on its belly.But next to the dead duck is a live duck,and please pay attention.Both are of the male sex.And then this happened.The live duck mounted the dead duck,and started to copulate.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:好吧，我是一个生物学家，我是一个鸟类学家。我说，“这里一定是发生了错误。”一只死的，一只活的……这必然是恋尸癖啊！我再看，都是雄性……同性恋尸癖啊！
en:Well, I&#39;m a biologist. I&#39;m an ornithologist.I said, &quot;Something&#39;s wrong here.&quot;One is dead, one is alive. That must be necrophilia.I look. Both are of the male sex.Homosexual necrophilia.
时间： 2:16
zh-cn:所以我……（笑声）
en:So I — (Laughter)
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:我拿出相机，拿出笔记本，搬来一张椅子，然会开始观察这一行为。过了75分钟之后——（笑声）——我觉得看够了，而且感到很饥饿。于是我想回家。所以我走出去，收回这只鸭子，在我放进冷藏柜之前，我再一次检查这个牺牲者是否确实是雄性。这儿是一个罕见鸭子阳具的图片，所以它确确实实是雄性。这张照片之所以罕见，是因为鸟类有10000多种但只有300种左右拥有阳具。
en:I took my camera, I took my notebook,took a chair, and started to observe this behavior.After 75 minutes — (Laughter) —I had seen enough, and I got hungry,and I wanted to go home.So I went out, collected the duck,and before I put it in the freezer,I checked if the victim was indeed of the male sex.And here&#39;s a rare picture of a duck&#39;s penis,so it was indeed of the male sex.It&#39;s a rare picture because there are 10,000 species of birdsand only 300 possess a penis.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:[野生绿头鸭（鸟类：鸭科）的首例同性恋尸癖行为研究]
en:[The first case of homosexual necrophilia in the mallard Anas platyrhynchos (Aves:Anatidae)]
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:我知道我看到了一些很特别的现象但却让我用了六年的时间来决定将它发表。（笑声）我的意思是，这可能是在生日宴会上很出彩的话题或者在咖啡机旁的闲聊，但是将它作为学术分享到同行之间，就发生了质的变化我当时还没有一个框架，所以在六年之后，我的朋友和同事催促我将它发表，所以我发表题为“首例绿头鸭的同性恋尸癖行为“于是又是相同的情景，A是我的办公室，B是那只鸭子撞上玻璃的地方，C是我观察行为的地方，现在又是那对鸭子。
en:I knew I&#39;d seen something special,but it took me six years to decide to publish it.(Laughter)I mean, it&#39;s a nice topic for a birthday partyor at the coffee machine,but to share this among your peers is something different.I didn&#39;t have the framework.So after six years, my friends and colleagues urged me to publish,so I published &quot;The first case of homosexual necrophiliain the mallard.&quot;And here&#39;s the situation again.A is my office,B is the place where the duck hit the glass,and C is from where I watched it.And here are the ducks again.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:你可能会想，在科学界，你写出了一篇特别的文章，只有6个或7个人去读它，（笑声）但这也是一件好事，我接到来自一位叫做马克·亚伯拉罕斯的来电，他告诉我，”你的鸭子论文已经获奖了：诺贝尔搞笑奖。”而这个诺贝尔搞笑奖——（笑声）（掌声）——诺贝尔搞笑奖的荣誉研究先让人们开怀大笑，之后开始思考它的宗旨是让更多的人对科学产生兴趣。这是一件好事，所以我接收了这个奖项。（笑声）
en:As you probably know, in science,when you write a kind of special paper,only six or seven people read it.(Laughter)But then something good happened.I got a phone call from a person called Marc Abrahams,and he told me, &quot;You&#39;ve won a prize with your duck paper:the Ig Nobel Prize.&quot;And the Ig Nobel Prize —(Laughter) (Applause) —the Ig Nobel Prize honors researchthat first makes people laugh, and then makes them think,with the ultimate goal to make more peopleinterested in science.That&#39;s a good thing, so I accepted the prize.(Laughter)
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:我来到——让我重提下这位马克·亚伯拉罕斯他并不是从斯德哥尔摩打电话给我，而是来自马塞诸萨州的剑桥。于是我来到波士顿，前往剑桥，我参加这场诺贝尔搞笑典礼的盛会地点是在哈佛大学，而这场典礼真是一次美妙的经历。由真正的诺贝尔获奖者授予你这份奖项。这只是个开端。那里还有九个其他的获奖者，这是其中之一，查尔斯·帕克斯顿他的论文获得2000年的生物奖，“鸵鸟的向人类作出的求偶行为在英国的农场条件下。”（笑声）我认为这里有一两个更多的诺贝尔搞笑奖获得者在这个大厅里。丹，你在哪里？丹·阿雷利？请掌声欢迎丹。（掌声）丹获得了医学奖他演示了昂贵的假药药效要比廉价的假药要好。（笑声）
en:I went — let me remind you that Marc Abrahamsdidn&#39;t call me from Stockholm.He called me from Cambridge, Massachusetts.So I traveled to Boston, to Cambridge,and I went to this wonderful Ig Nobel Prize ceremonyheld at Harvard University, and this ceremonyis a very nice experience.Real Nobel laureates hand you the prize.That&#39;s the first thing.And there are nine other winners who get prizes.Here&#39;s one of my fellow winners. That&#39;s Charles Paxtonwho won the 2000 biology prize for his paper,&quot;Courtship behavior of ostriches towards humansunder farming conditions in Britain.&quot;(Laughter)And I think there are one or two moreIg Nobel Prize winners in this room.Dan, where are you? Dan Ariely?Applause for Dan.(Applause)Dan won his prize in medicinefor demonstrating that high-priced fake medicineworks better than low-priced fake medicine.(Laughter)
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:这就是我获奖的那一刻我在发表获奖感言这是那只鸭子。这是它第一次来到美国西海岸我希望大家可以传阅。（笑声）如何？你可以将它传给其他观众，请注意它是一个博物馆的标本，所以你不会感染禽流感……
en:So here&#39;s my one minute of fame,my acceptance speech,and here&#39;s the duck.This is its first time on the U.S. West Coast.I&#39;m going to pass it around.(Laughter)Yeah?You can pass it around.Please note it&#39;s a museum specimen,but there&#39;s no chance you&#39;ll get the avian flu.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:在这次获奖之后，我的生活发生了改变。起初，有人开始给我寄一些东西都是些关于鸭子的物品，然后我获得了非常好的收藏。（笑声）更为重要的是，人们开始寄给我他们自己的观测关于动物与众不同的行为，请相信我，如果在这个星球上那只动物发生了不正常行为，我肯定会被告知。
en:After winning this prize, my life changed.In the first place, people started to send meall kinds of duck-related things,and I got a real nice collection.(Laughter)More importantly,people started to send me their observationsof remarkable animal behavior,and believe me, if there&#39;s an animal misbehaving on this planet,I know about it.
时间： 7:12
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:16
zh-cn:这是一只麋鹿。这只麋鹿试图去交配……和一只野牛的铜像。发生在2008年的蒙大纳州。这是一只青蛙试图和一只金鱼交配，发生在2011年的荷兰。它们是澳大利亚的“甘蔗蟾蜍”。下面的这只是被撞死的，请注意这又是一起恋尸癖，而且尤为不寻常的是——体位……这种传教士姿势在动物界是非常罕见的。这些是鹿特丹的鸽子家燕，2004年的香港这是一只威斯康辛州的火鸡在伊森艾伦未成年犯管教机构的房屋上交配历时一整天，囚犯们度过了一段美好的时光
en:This is a moose.It&#39;s a moose trying to copulatewith a bronze statue of a bison.This is in Montana, 2008.This is a frog that tries to copulate with a goldfish.This is the Netherlands, 2011.These are cane toads in Australia.This is roadkill.Please note that this is necrophilia.It&#39;s remarkable: the position.The missionary position is very rare in the animal kingdom.These are pigeons in Rotterdam.Barn swallows in Hong Kong, 2004.This is a turkey in Wisconsinon the premises of the Ethan Allen juvenile correctional institution.It took all day,and the prisoners had a great time.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:那么这些现象意味着什么？我是说，我问自己，为什么这些现象自然而然的发生了？好吧，我得出的结论是通过回顾这些个例这些现象发生的关键是只有当死亡是瞬间发生伴随戏剧化的方式又正好适合交配的体位直到我看到接下来的这组幻灯片。这里你可以看到一只死掉的鸭子它死在那里已经三天了然而姿势是仰天朝上。所以我之前关于恋尸癖的理论并不完全正确。
en:So what does this mean?I mean, the question I ask myself,why does this happen in nature?Well, what I concludedfrom reviewing all these casesis that it is important that this happensonly when death is instantand in a dramatic wayand in the right position for copulation.At least, I thought it was till I got these slides.And here you see a dead duck.It&#39;s been there for three days,and it&#39;s laying on its back.So there goes my theory of necrophilia.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:另一个例子是玻璃建筑对鸟类生命的影响。这是现实版“精卫”，一只生活在鹿特丹的乌鸦。这只鸟每天做的事情，就是与这堵玻璃的斗争从2004年一直到2008年，日以继夜的重复。它要冲向玻璃了，请看视频。
en:Another example of the impactof glass buildings on the life of birds.This is Mad Max, a blackbird who lives in Rotterdam.The only thing this bird did was fly against this windowfrom 2004 to 2008, day in and day out.Here he goes, and here&#39;s a short video.
时间： 9:23
zh-cn:（音乐）（呯）（呯）（呯）（呯）
en:(Music) (Clunk)(Clunk)(Clunk)(Clunk)
时间： 9:58
zh-cn:这只鸟所做的是与他在玻璃中的镜像斗争。他以为在自己领地出现了入侵者，而且只要他在，“敌人”也在……所以他想终结这种情况。我在最初的时候——我已经研究这只鸟很多年了——我想这只鸟的大脑会不会被撞坏？确实不会，我给你们展示这些幻灯片，是从视频的节选，在它即将碰到玻璃的临近时刻，他把他的脚放在前面，然后才重击到玻璃上。
en:So what this bird doesis fight his own image.He sees an intruder in his territory,and it&#39;s coming all the time and he&#39;s there,so there is no end to it.And I thought, in the beginning — I studied this bird for a couple of years —that, well, shouldn&#39;t the brain of this bird be damaged?It&#39;s not. I show you here some slides,some frames from the video,and at the last moment before he hits the glass,he puts his feet in front,and then he bangs against the glass.
时间：10:33
zh-cn:最后，我邀请大家能来参加死鸭子节。每年的6月5日。在下午的5点55分，我们聚在鹿特丹的自然历史博物馆，把鸭子从博物馆中取出，我们试着探讨用新的方式来保护鸟类防止撞上玻璃。或许你们知道，也或许不清楚，这是全世界的鸟类最显著的致死因子之一。单是在美国，十亿鸟类死于玻璃建筑的碰撞。当聚会结束之后，我们前往中国餐馆享受一次六道菜的晚餐。
en:So I&#39;ll conclude to invite you all to Dead Duck Day.That&#39;s on June 5 every year.At five minutes to six in the afternoon,we come together at the Natural History Museum in Rotterdam,the duck comes out of the museum,and we try to discuss new waysto prevent birds from colliding with windows.And as you know, or as you may not know,this is one of the major causes of deathfor birds in the world.In the U.S. alone, a billion birds diein collision with glass buildings.And when it&#39;s over, we go to a Chinese restaurantand we have a six-course duck dinner.
时间：11:19
zh-cn:我希望能见到大家在明年的荷兰鹿特丹，庆祝死鸭子节。谢谢。
en:So I hope to see younext year in Rotterdam, the Netherlands,for Dead Duck Day.Thank you.
时间：11:28
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:30
zh-cn:哦，对不起。请问我可以取回我的鸭子吗？
en:Oh, sorry.May I have my duck back, please?
时间：11:38
zh-cn:（笑声）（掌声）
en:(Laughter) (Applause)
时间：11:41
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
