时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我来这里是为了和你们分享一个并不起眼，却很有力量的词，人们为了避免它，甚至愿意做任何事。人们对它的恐惧催生了数十亿美元的产业，我们中有些人拥有它，并且不得不忍受它为生活带来的巨大动荡。
en:I&#39;m here today to talk to youabout a very powerful little word,one that people will do almost anythingto avoid becoming.Billion-dollar industries thrivebecause of the fear of it,and those of us who undeniably are itare left to navigate a relentless stormsurrounding it.
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:我不知道你们有没有注意到，我很胖。不是那种不明显的，只让人在我背后咕哝的胖，也不是那种看起来无害的乖胖，甚至也不是那种神秘、性感的丰腴。
en:I&#39;m not sure if any of you have noticed,but I&#39;m fat.Not the lowercase,muttered-behind-my-back kind,or the seemingly harmlesschubby or cuddly.I&#39;m not even the more sophisticatedvoluptuous or curvaceous kind.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:还是不要用任何冠冕堂皇的词了。我就是那种显而易见的肥胖。我就是屋子里那只显眼的大象。当我走上舞台的时候，你们当中的一些人会想，“噢，这肯定会非常搞笑，因为每个人都知道，胖子很搞笑。”
en:Let&#39;s not sugarcoat it.I am the capital F-A-T kind of fat.I am the elephant in the room.When I walked out on stage,some of you may have been thinking,&quot;Aww, this is going to be hilarious,because everybody knowsthat fat people are funny.&quot;
时间： 1:09
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:你们也会想，“她这是哪里来的自信呀？”因为一个自信的胖女人，好像只是想象中的存在。部分有时尚感的听众，可能已经意识到，我穿这件 Beth Ditto 裙子非常美——
en:Or you may have been thinking,&quot;Where does she get her confidence from?&quot;Because a confident fat womanis almost unthinkable.The fashion-consciousmembers of the audiencemay have been thinking how fabulous I lookin this Beth Ditto dress —
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:（欢呼声）
en:(Cheers)
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:谢谢大家。但你们其中也有一些人会想，“嗯，黑色会让她看起来瘦一点。”
en:thank you very much.Whereas some of you might have thought,&quot;Hmm, black would have beenso much more slimming.&quot;
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:你也许会有意或无意的想，我可能有糖尿病，或者我已经结婚了，或者我7点以后还在吃零食。
en:You may have wondered, consciously or not,if I have diabetes, or a partner,or if I eat carbs after 7pm.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:44
zh-cn:你可能还担心自己，因为你昨天七点以后吃了零食，你会感觉非常需要给健身卡续费。
en:You may have worriedthat you ate carbs after 7pm last night,and that you really should renewyour gym membership.
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:这些偏见都是无法避免的。他们可能产生于个人，也可能产生于集体，他们也可能产生于我们自己。这种思维方式统称为肥胖恐惧症。
en:These judgments are insidious.They can be directedat individuals and groups,and they can alsobe directed at ourselves.And this way of thinkingis known as fatphobia.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:就像社会中各种形式的系统性的压制，肥胖恐惧症深深根植在这复杂的社会结构中，就像资本主义、男权主义和种族歧视，这让它很难被意识到，更不用说要改变它了。我们这个社会的文化，告诉人们胖子都是坏人——懒惰的，贪婪的，不健康的，不负责任的人，甚至行为不良。我们还普遍认为，瘦是一种美德 —负责任的，成功的，能够控制自己的胃口，身体和生活。我们一次又一次的从媒体，医保政策和医院中被灌输这些想法，甚至在每天的谈天以及我们自己的想法中也屡见不鲜。我们还以貌取人，责备那些肥胖的人，毕竟，如果我们不喜欢肥胖，我们只需要减肥，非常简单。这反对肥胖的态度在我们审视自己的过程中，越来越完整，越来越根深蒂固。我们很少会了解到，我们能对人们的身材如此轻视，甚至不知道这种鄙视来自哪里。
en:Like any form of systematic oppression,fatphobia is deeply rootedin complex structureslike capitalism, patriarchy and racism,and that can make itreally difficult to see,let alone challenge.We live in a culturewhere being fatis seen as being a bad person —lazy, greedy, unhealthy, irresponsibleand morally suspect.And we tend to see thinnessas being universally good —responsible, successful,and in control of our appetites,bodies and lives.We see these ideas again and againin the media, in public health policy,doctors&#39; offices,in everyday conversationsand in our own attitudes.We may even blame fat people themselvesfor the discrimination they facebecause, after all, if we don&#39;t like it,we should just lose weight.Easy.This antifat bias has becomeso integral, so ingrainedto how we value ourselves and each otherthat we rarely question whywe have such contempt for people of sizeand where that disdain comes from.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:但我们需要质疑这种观念，因为我们对我们的外表看的太重，这影响了我们每一个人。我们真的想要这样的社会吗？人们对这种不理智的价值观极其买账，却否认了最基本的人性。
en:But we must question it,because the enormous valuewe place on how we lookaffects every one of us.And do we really want to live in a societywhere people are deniedtheir basic humanityif they don&#39;t subscribeto some arbitrary form of acceptable?
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:当我六岁的时候，我姐姐在我们家的车库里教一群孩子芭蕾。我大概比其他孩子高一英尺，胖一英尺，当我们第一次表演的时候，我为能第一次穿上芭蕾舞裙感到特别兴奋。我以为自己可以成为耀眼的明星。而当其他孩子轻松的穿上它们的时候，没有一件芭蕾舞裙装得下我。我下决心一定要参加演出，于是我对着妈妈，用所有人能听到的音量说，“妈妈，我不要正常码的（音似22），我要一件大号的（音似44 ）。”
en:So when I was six years old,my sister used to teach balletto a bunch of little girls in our garage.I was about a foot taller and a foot widerthan most of the group.When it came to doingour first performance,I was so excitedabout wearing a pretty pink tutu.I was going to sparkle.As the other girls slipped easilyinto their Lycra and tulle creations,not one of the tutuswas big enough to fit me.I was determined not to beexcluded from the performance,so I turned to my motherand loud enough for everyone to hearsaid, &quot;Mom, I don&#39;t need a tutu.I need a fourfour.&quot;
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:28
zh-cn:谢谢你，妈妈。
en:Thanks, Mom.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:尽管我当时并没意识到，穿着大号舞裙在舞台上发光，是我成为积极肥胖演说家的第一步。
en:And although I didn&#39;trecognize it at the time,claiming space for myselfin that glorious fourfourwas the first step towards becominga radical fat activist.
时间： 4:45
zh-cn:我不是说在那堂课上，我突然就福至心灵的学会了接受自己的身体，远远不是那样。我很快就从外界社会中，了解到那让人感到绝望、孤独的主流价值观。我用了二十年分析、理解这些偏见，心境也随之起起落落。我被公开的嘲笑过，被过往车辆羞辱过，还被人质疑我有幻想症。但我也从陌生人那儿得到过微笑，那些人知道我走这条路需要勇气，你需要昂首挺胸，充满活力。
en:Now, I&#39;m not sayingthat this whole body-love thinghas been an easy skip alonga glittering path of self-acceptancesince that day in class.Far from it.I soon learned that living outsidewhat the mainstream considers normalcan be a frustrating and isolating place.I&#39;ve spent the last 20 years unpackingand deprogramming these messages,and it&#39;s been quite the roller coaster.I&#39;ve been openly laughed at,abused from passing carsand been told that I&#39;m delusional.I also receive smiles from strangerswho recognize what it takesto walk down the streetwith a spring in your stepand your head held high.
时间： 5:26
zh-cn:（欢呼声）
en:(Cheer)
时间： 5:27
zh-cn:谢谢。在这个过程中，那个六岁时的勇敢时刻伴随着我，它给了我，一个丝毫不愧疚的胖子站在你们面前的勇气，也让我成为了一个拒接接受社会主流对于该如何运用我的身体的评价，并为我的身体骄傲的女孩。
en:Thanks.And through it all, that fiercelittle six-year-old has stayed with me,and she has helped mestand before you todayas an unapologetic fat person,a person that simply refuses to subscribeto the dominant narrativeabout how I should movethrough the world in this body of mine.
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:我并不是孤军奋战。我是一个全球性组织中的一员，与其被动接受对自己身体的反感，我们选择了对自己身体的态度，我们要在自己的身体里发光。我们为自己的力量骄傲，接受着，而并非挑战身体给予我们的限制，比起BMI表上的一堆数字，我们更加全面的对待健康。相对比，我们认为心理健康、自我价值、对待自己身体的态度，是三件对于人生最重要的事情。我们拒绝认为肥胖是通向任何地方的壁垒。
en:And I&#39;m not alone.I am part of an internationalcommunity of peoplewho choose to, ratherthan passively acceptingthat our bodies areand probably always will be big,we actively choose to flourishin these bodies as they are today.People who honor our strengthand work with, not against,our perceived limitations,people who value healthas something much more holisticthan a number on an outdated BMI chart.Instead, we value mental health,self-worth and how we feel in our bodiesas vital aspectsto our overall well-being.People who refuse to believethat living in these fat bodiesis a barrier to anything, really.
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:医生们，学者们，以及一些博主针对不同方面，写了很多关于这个复杂课题的文章。有些时尚的肥胖明星宣传着他们的美，他们的身体，穿着“肥基尼”和短款上衣，让那些本应躲藏的肥肉暴露出来。有一些肥胖的运动员，他们跑马拉松，当瑜伽教练，打拳击，他们用行动向这种社会理念竖起了中指。这些人教会了我激进身体政治活动，是自我身体羞耻文化的疫苗。
en:There are doctors, academics and bloggerswho have written countless volumeson the many facetsof this complex subject.There are fatshionistaswho reclaim their bodies and their beautyby wearing fatkinis and crop tops,exposing the fleshthat we&#39;re all taught to hide.There are fat athleteswho run marathons,teach yoga or do kickboxing,all done with a middle fingerfirmly held up to the status quo.And these people have taught methat radical body politicsis the antidoteto our body-shaming culture.
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:需要澄清的是，我并不是要劝说那些认为需要健身塑性的人放弃这个想法。改造你自己可能是自爱最棒的表达方式，并且你有很多种方法，从发型到纹身，到身体的轮廓，激素调理或手术，是的，甚至是减肥。这很简单，这是你自己的身体，由你来决定对自己做什么最好。
en:But to be clear, I&#39;m not sayingthat people shouldn&#39;t change their bodiesif that&#39;s what they want to do.Reclaiming yourself can be oneof the most gorgeous acts of self-loveand can look likea million different things,from hairstyles to tattoosto body contouringto hormones to surgeryand yes, even weight loss.It&#39;s simple: it&#39;s your body,and you decide what&#39;s best to do with it.
时间： 7:51
zh-cn:我参与到这种激进主义的方法是，去做那些胖子不该做的事，这样的事有很多，我邀请人们加入，然后一起创造艺术。我们绝大多数作品的主线是开拓那些本不属于胖子的领域，从走天桥到夜总会表演，从公共游泳池到显眼的舞台。重新占领这些领域并不仅仅是一个艺术家的声明，也是一种建立社会的激进尝试。你可以从“AQUAPORKO”感受到——
en:My way of engaging in activismis by doing all the thingsthat we fatties aren&#39;t supposed to do,and there&#39;s a lot of them,inviting other people to join meand then making art about it.The common threadthrough most of this workhas been reclaiming spaces that areoften prohibitive to bigger bodies,from the catwalk to club shows,from public swimming poolsto prominent dance stages.And reclaiming spaces en masseis not only a powerful artistic statementbut a radical community-building approach.This was so true of &quot;AQUAPORKO!&quot; —
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:32
zh-cn:一个胖女人组成的花式游泳队，我和一群朋友在悉尼建立起了这支队伍。这群肆无忌惮的胖女人，穿着绚丽的游泳衣和游泳帽，毫无顾忌地向空中踢腿，她们的影响不容小觑。
en:the fat fem synchronized swim teamI started with a groupof friends in Sydney.The impact of seeinga bunch of defiant fat womenin flowery swimming caps and bathersthrowing their legs in the airwithout a careshould not be underestimated.
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:在我的职业生涯中，我意识到肥胖的躯体有着天生的政治色彩，而毫不愧疚的胖子们，可以让人们豁然开朗。当饱受赞扬的剧场Force Majeure的导演Kate Champion邀请我去做艺术指导，指导一部描画肥胖的舞蹈作品，我紧紧把握住了这次机会。我是认真的。“毫无畏惧”利用各个演员的体态描述了他们的经历，创造了一部像我们一样多元的，真实的作品。它与你能想象到的芭蕾表演很不同，
en:Throughout my career, I have learnedthat fat bodies are inherently political,and unapologetic fat bodiescan blow people&#39;s minds.When director Kate Champion,of acclaimed dance theatercompany Force Majeure,asked me to be the artistic associateon a work featuring all fat dancers,I literally jumped at the opportunity.And I mean literally.&quot;Nothing to Lose&quot; is a work madein collaboration with performers of sizewho drew from their lived experiencesto create a work as variedand authentic as we all are.And it was as far from balletas you could imagine.
时间： 9:41
zh-cn:如此有名望的公司创造这样一部作品的初衷，简单来说就是，颠覆性的，以前在世界各地从来没有这样的主流舞台作品。
en:The very idea of a fat dance workby such a prestigious companywas, to put it mildly, controversial,because nothing like it had ever been doneon mainstream dance stages beforeanywhere in the world.
时间： 9:58
zh-cn:人们的态度充满质疑。“肥胖的舞者是什么意思？”10码，12码的那种胖吗？他们在哪里接受的舞蹈训练？他们有那样的精力去完成一部完整的表演吗？
en:People were skeptical.&quot;What do you mean, &#39;fat dancers?&#39;Like, size 10, size 12 kind of fat?Where did they do their dance training?Are they going to have the staminafor a full-length production?&quot;
时间：10:17
zh-cn:尽管有各种怀疑，“毫无畏惧”却在悉尼音乐节非常卖座。我们得到了热烈的赞美，进行了巡演，拿了奖，我们的表演还被翻译成27种语言进行报道。这些舞台照传遍了世界各地。我不记得有多少次，各种体型的人们告诉我，这个表演改变了他们的生活，改变了他们看待自己身体、他人身体的方式，让他们直视来自自己的偏见。
en:But despite the skepticism,&quot;Nothing to Lose&quot; becamea sellout hit of Sydney Festival.We received rave reviews, toured,won awards and were written aboutin over 27 languages.These incredible images of our castwere seen worldwide.I&#39;ve lost count of how many timespeople of all sizeshave told me that the showhas changed their lives,how it helped themshift their relationshipto their own and other people&#39;s bodies,and how it made them confronttheir own bias.
时间：10:52
zh-cn:但当然了，这样给人们以警醒的作品，少不了贬低者。我被形容为不健康饮食的宣传者，我接受到过充满敌意的死亡威胁，被误解成做以胖子为中心，不顾及其他人有意义的生活的艺术。我甚至还被称作“不健康饮食恐怖主义者”——
en:But of course, workthat pushes people&#39;s buttonsis not without its detractors.I have been toldthat I&#39;m glorifying obesity.I have received violent death threatsand abuse for daring to make workthat centers fat people&#39;s bodies and livesand treats us as worthwhile human beingswith valuable stories to tell.I&#39;ve even been called&quot;the ISIS of the obesity epidemic&quot; —
时间：11:21
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:23
zh-cn:这个评论非常荒谬，很可笑。但它也直接与那种恐慌，真实的恐惧对话，人们对肥胖的恐惧正是由此产生。就是这种恐惧滋养着减肥产业，那些让我们厌恶自己身体的产业，还有那些不愿接受真正的自己想要成为“疗效后”的人们。因为屋子里真正显眼的大象，是肥胖恐惧者。肥胖激进主义拒绝纵容这种恐惧。我们主张自我定义，尊重所有人，我们可以让有抵触情绪的社会去接受这样的多元化，开始庆祝拥有身体的无数种形式。
en:a comment so absurd that it is funny.But it also speaks to the panic,the literal terror,that the fear of fat can evoke.It is this fear that&#39;s feedingthe diet industry,which is keeping so many of usfrom making peace with our own bodies,for waiting to be the after-photobefore we truly start to live our lives.Because the real elephantin the room here is fatphobia.Fat activism refuses to indulge this fear.By advocating for self-determinationand respect for all of us,we can shift society&#39;s reluctanceto embrace diversityand start to celebrate the myriad waysthere are to have a body.
时间：12:11
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：12:12
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
