时间： 0:11
zh-cn:家里有机器人的观众请举下手～嗯，不算太多。好。这些举手的观众中，哪些人家里的机器人不是扫地机器人？寥寥无几。谢谢，可以放下来了。这就是我们 Romotive 团队——我和另外20个怪才——想要解决的问题，而我们真的乐在其中。
en:So just by a show of hands, how many of you all have a robot at home?Not very many of you.Okay. And actually of those hands,if you don&#39;t include Roomba how many of you have a robot at home?So a couple.That&#39;s okay.That&#39;s the problem that we&#39;re trying to solve at Romotive —that I and the other 20 nerds at Romotive are obsessed with solving.
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:我们的目标是造出来一种谁都用得了的机器人，不管你是8岁还是80岁。我们发现，这确实是一个很难的问题，因为这不仅要求你构造出来的机器人小巧、轻便，成本控制在可接受的水平，还要求你做出来的机器人足够有趣，使得人们愿意把它们带回家，带给孩子。这个机器人样子不能太丑陋。他应该是很萌、很可爱的。
en:So we really want to build a robot that anyone can use,whether you&#39;re eight or 80.And as it turns out, that&#39;s a really hard problem,because you have to build a small, portable robotthat&#39;s not only really affordable,but it has to be somethingthat people actually want to take home and have around their kids.This robot can&#39;t be creepy or uncanny.He should be friendly and cute.
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:他就是 Romo。Romo 机器人使用你已经熟知并喜欢的设备——你的 iPhone —— 作为他的大脑。利用 iPhone 的处理器和传感器，我们只花了大概150美元就做出来一台带有WIFI和计算机视觉功能的机器人，价格只有过去类似机器人的造价的百分之一。
en:So meet Romo.Romo&#39;s a robot that uses a device you already know and love —your iPhone — as his brain.And by leveraging the power of the iPhone&#39;s processor,we can create a robot that is wi-fi enabledand computer vision-capable for 150 bucks,which is about one percent of what these kinds of robots have cost in the past.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:现在 Romo 醒了，他现在处在自主模式。他通过手机上的摄像头识别和跟踪我的脸。如果我弯下腰，他也会跟着我转。他有些担心，所以他的视线一直没有离开我。如果我来这边，他也会跟我跑。如果我来这边——（笑声）他很聪明。如果我靠他太近，他会像其它小动物一样感到害怕，在很多方面，Romo 跟你的宠物差不多，有自己的意识。谢谢，小家伙。（打喷嚏的声音）保重啊。
en:When Romo wakes up, he&#39;s in creature mode.So he&#39;s actually using the video camera on the device to follow my face.If I duck down, he&#39;ll follow me.He&#39;s wary, so he&#39;ll keep his eyes on me.If I come over here, he&#39;ll turn to follow me.If I come over here — (Laughs)He&#39;s smart.And if I get too close to him,he gets scared just like any other creature.So in a lot of ways, Romo is like a pet that has a mind of his own.Thanks, little guy.(Sneezing sound)Bless you.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:如果我想要探索这个世界——啊哈，Romo 累了——如果我想通过 Romo 探索这个世界，我可以通过别的 iOS 设备来连接 Romo。比如这个 iPad。Romo 可以将视频流转接到这台设备上。所以现在我能看到 Romo 看到的一切，通过机器人的视角看世界。我们在 App Store 上放了一个免费 App，如果你们在自己的手机上安装了这个 App我们现在就可以一起控制这个机器人，还可以一起玩游戏。
en:And if I want to explore the world — uh-oh, Romo&#39;s tired —if I want to explore the world with Romo,I can actually connect him from any other iOS device.So here&#39;s the iPad.And Romo will actually stream video to this device.So I can see everything that Romo sees,and I get a robot&#39;s-eye-view of the world.Now this is a free app on the App Store,so if any of you guys had this app on your phones,we could literally right now share control of the robot and play games together.
时间： 2:23
zh-cn:让我来快速演示一下，Romo 现在正在传送视频图像，你可以看到我和整个观众席。如果你站在 Romo 面前。如果我想要控制 Romo，我点几个按钮就可以了。我可以让他来回的移动，我还可以让 Romo 拍照。我很想要拍一张有1500位TED观众的照片。喀嚓！拍好了。同样的方式，你可以在 iPad 上来回的滚动画面，我可以调整设备上的摄像头的角度。这就是通过Romo 的眼睛看到的你们的样子。最后，Romo 作为我的一个延伸，我可以依照我的心情来改变他的表情。所以我可以登录进来，然后让 Romo 作出兴奋的表情。
en:So I&#39;ll show you really quickly,Romo actually — he&#39;s streaming video,so you can see me and the entire TED audience.If I get in front of Romo here.And if I want to control him, I can just drive.So I can drive him around,and I can take pictures of you.I&#39;ve always wanted a picture of a 1,500-person TED audience.So I&#39;ll snap a picture.And in the same way that you scroll through content on an iPad,I can actually adjust the angle of the camera on the device.So there are all of you through Romo&#39;s eyes.And finally, because Romo is an extension of me,I can express myself through his emotions.So I can go in and I can say let&#39;s make Romo excited.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:我们创造 Romo 最最重要的一个考虑就是他的操作一定要非常非常的直观。任何人都应该不需要人教就会驾驶 Romo。现在，谁愿意现场试一下？好的，酷。给你。谢谢，Scott。
en:But the most important thing about Romois that we wanted to create something that was literally completely intuitive.You do not have to teach someone how to drive Romo.In fact, who would like to drive a robot?Okay. Awesome.Here you go.Thank you, Scott.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:更酷的是，即使你跟 Romo 相隔两地，你也可以毫无障碍的控制他。实际上，他可以在两台智能设备之间（如手机和平板电脑）双向的传送视频和音频信号，比如你可以通过浏览器登录 Romo，这个时候他就像是带轮子的 Skype 电话一样。我们刚才讨论过远程视觉呈现（telepresence）这就是非常酷的例子。想象一下一个8岁的小姑娘，有一个 iPhone，她的妈妈给她买了一个 Romo 机器人。小姑娘可以把她的 iPhone 插到机器人上，给她住在很远的地方的外婆发封电子邮件。外婆可以登录进入 Romo，跟孙女玩躲猫猫的游戏，可以每天晚上都玩15分钟，如果没有 Romo，她可能一年只有一两次机会见到自己的乖孙女。
en:And even cooler, you actually don&#39;t have to bein the same geographic location as the robot to control him.So he actually streams two-way audio and videobetween any two smart devices.So you can log in through the browser,and it&#39;s kind of like Skype on wheels.So we were talking before about telepresence,and this is a really cool example.You can imagine an eight-year-old girl, for example, who has an iPhone,and her mom buys her a robot.That girl can take her iPhone, put it on the robot,send an email to Grandma, who lives on the other side of the country.Grandma can log into that robot and play hide-and-go-seek with her granddaughterfor fifteen minutes every single night,when otherwise she might only be able to get to see her granddaughter once or twice a year.
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:谢谢你，Scott。
en:Thanks, Scott.
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:所以，Romo 现在已经可以做一些很酷的事情了。最后我想要分享一下我们未来的工作目标。这实际上是我们的工程师之一 Dom 在一个周末做出来的。它基于 Google 的一个称为 Blockly 的开源框架构建。它允许你以拖拽代码块的方式创造出任何你想要的机器人的行为。你不需要知道如何针对 Romo 编程。你要做的就是在浏览器中模拟你想要的行为，就是现在 Romo 在屏幕左边做的那样。然后如果你想的话，你可以把代码下载到你的机器人中，在真实环境中执行在现实环境中运行程序。如果这些程序让你很自豪，你可以向全世界所有有这款机器人的玩家分享你的代码。所以，这种带WIFI连接的机器人实际上是可以相互学习的。
en:So those are a couple of the really cool things that Romo can do today.But I just want to finish by talking about something that we&#39;re working on in the future.This is actually something that one of our engineers, Dom, built in a weekend.It&#39;s built on top of a Google open framework called Blockly.This allows you to drag and drop these blocks of semantic codeand create any behavior for this robot you want.You do not have to know how to code to create a behavior for Romo.And you can actually simulate that behavior in the browser,which is what you see Romo doing on the left.And then if you have something you like,you can download it onto your robot and execute it in real life,run the program in real life.And then if you have something you&#39;re proud of,you can share it with every other person who owns a robot in the world.So all of these wi-fi–enabled robots actually learn from each other.
时间： 4:52
zh-cn:我们尽最大努力做到让任何人都可以训练机器人，是因为我们认为个人机器人最吸引人的地方就是个性化。每个人对机器人的需求都是不同的。我们认为，如果你打算买台机器人放在家里，这个机器人应该是你自己想象力的体现。
en:The reason we&#39;re so focused on building robots that everyone can trainis that we think the most compelling use cases in personal robotics are personal.They change from person to person.So we think that if you&#39;re going to have a robot in your home,that robot ought to be a manifestation of your own imagination.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:我希望我能够向你描述未来的个人机器人会是什么样子。但是老实说，我也不知道。但是我们知道这不会是那种很大的类人机器人，或是需要花10年时间和100亿造出来的机器人。未来的个人机器人会顺着当前的研究方向发展，即依赖于你自己的创造力，去操纵像 Romo 这样小巧灵活的机器人。我们已经等不及让你们人手一个机器人，等不及看到你们的想象力了。
en:So I wish that I could tell you what the future of personal robotics looks like.To be honest, I have no idea.But what we do know is that it isn&#39;t 10 years or 10 billion dollarsor a large humanoid robot away.The future of personal robotics is happening today,and it&#39;s going to depend on small, agile robots like Romoand the creativity of people like yourselves.So we can&#39;t wait to get you all robots,and we can&#39;t wait to see what you build.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
