时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想我敢说每个人的一生中都至少会有一次与死神亲密接触。但是如果这种与死神的接触远远早于你原本面临的由生到死的转换，该怎么办？如果死亡就在你的身边你的生活会变成什么样？
en:I think it&#39;s safe to saythat all humans will be intimate with deathat least once in their lives.But what if that intimacy beganlong before you faced your own transitionfrom life into death?What would life be likeif the dead literally lived alongside you?
时间： 0:32
zh-cn:我丈夫的家乡，在印度尼西亚东部的苏拉威西岛高地上，有一些人，死亡对于他们来说不是一个孤立事件，而是一个逐步发生的社会进程。在塔纳·托拉雅（Tana Toraja），人们生活中最重要的社交活动，社会、文化的关注焦点不是在结婚、生孩子甚至家庭晚餐上，而是在葬礼上。所以这些葬礼具有复杂的仪式，在一个基于动物数量的礼尚往来的体系中将人们紧密联系—例如：猪、鸡以及最重要的水牛 —这些动物会被宰杀然后祭奠在死者的名下。所以这种围绕着“死”的文化情结，这一代表生命结束的仪式，让葬礼成为托拉雅最引人注目的、最了不起的一道风景。葬礼会持续几天到几周不等，葬礼是一个热闹的事儿。在人们祭奠的时候不会有太多的个人悲伤而更多的是公众的情感过渡。这个过渡的重要性对生者来说是和缅怀死者一样重要。
en:In my husband&#39;s homelandin the highlands of Sulawesi islandin eastern Indonesia,there is a community of people that experience deathnot as a singular eventbut as a gradual social process.In Tana Toraja,the most important social moments in people&#39;s lives,the focal points of social and cultural interactionare not weddings or births or even family dinners,but funerals.So these funerals are characterizedby elaborate ritualsthat tie people in a system of reciprocal debtbased on the amount of animals —pigs, chickens and, most importantly, water buffalo —that are sacrificed and distributedin the name of the deceased.So this cultural complex surrounding death,the ritual enactment of the end of life,has made death the most visibleand remarkable aspect of Toraja&#39;s landscape.Lasting anywhere from a few daysto a few weeks,funeral ceremonies are a raucous affair,where commemorating someone who&#39;s diedis not so much a private sadnessbut more of a publicly shared transition.And it&#39;s a transition that&#39;s just as muchabout the identity of the livingas it is about remembrance of the dead.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:所以每年都会有成千上万的游客去塔纳托拉雅看这种关于“死”的文化。对于很多人来说，这些宏伟的仪式以及仪式持续的时间是无法与我们西方面对死亡的方法而比较的。虽然全世界的人们都会经历死亡，但是世人们经历死亡的方式不尽相同。作为一名人类学家，我认为这些不尽相同的经历根源于不同的文化和社会并成为我们判断周遭现象的依据。所以我们看到的是一个不容置疑的现实，即死亡是一个不逆的生命状态，而托拉雅人将这种肉体的死亡更多的看作社会起源的一部分。所以物理上生命的尽头并不等同于死亡。事实上，一个人真正意义上的死亡是当大家庭达成一致以及准备好一切举行葬礼所需的资源。这些资源的准备要与死者的地位相匹配。整个葬礼仪式会在全村当着所有人的面举行每个人都是其中的一份子。
en:So every year, thousands of visitorscome to Tana Toraja to see, as it were,this culture of death,and for many people these grandiose ceremoniesand the length of the ceremoniesare somehow incommensurablewith the way that we face our own mortality in the West.So even as we share death as a universal experience,it&#39;s not experienced the same way the world over.And as an anthropologist,I see these differences in experiencebeing rooted in the cultural and social worldthrough which we define the phenomena around us.So where we see an unquestionable reality,death as an irrefutable biological condition,Torajans see the expired corporeal formas part of a larger social genesis.So again, the physical cessation of lifeis not the same as death.In fact, a member of society is only truly deadwhen the extended family can agree uponand marshal the resources necessaryto hold a funeral ceremonythat is considered appropriate in terms of resourcesfor the status of the deceased.And this ceremony has to take placein front of the eyes of the whole communitywith everyone&#39;s participation.
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:所以在一个人肉体死亡后，他的尸体会放在他们传统居住地的一个特别房间里，这种房间叫做 tongkonan。Tongkonan 是一个象征意义，它不只代表着家族的的身份也代表了一个人生死轮回。所以基本上，你出生时所居住的建筑形状就是与你被带着去先祖安息的地方的棺材的形状一致。直到葬礼仪式，仪式可以在一个人肉体死亡多年以后举行死者被称为 “to makala”，一个生病的人，或&quot;to mama&quot;，一个睡着了的人，他们还会作为整个家庭的一份子。他们被象征性地喂养和照顾，然后家族会在这时候将实行一些仪式上的指令，告知社区里更多的人他们的一个成员正在经历“轮回”从生到来世这被叫做&quot;Puya&quot;。
en:So after a person&#39;s physical death,their body is placed in a special roomin the traditional residence, which is called the tongkonan.And the tongkonan is symbolicnot only of the family&#39;s identitybut also of the human life cycle from birth to death.So essentially, the shape of the buildingthat you&#39;re born into is the shapeof the structure which carries youto your ancestral resting place.Until the funeral ceremony,which can be held years after a person&#39;s physical death,the deceased is referred to as &quot;to makala,&quot; a sick person,or &quot;to mama,&quot; a person who is asleep,and they continue to be a member of the household.They are symbolically fed and cared for,and the family at this timewill begin a number of ritual injunctions,which communicates to the wider community around themthat one of their members is undergoing the transitionfrom this life into the afterlifeknown as Puya.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:所以我知道你们其中有人一定在想，她说的是真的吗，这些人与他们的亲人的尸体住在一起？而这正是我的意思。
en:So I know what some of you must be thinking right now.Is she really saying that these people livewith the bodies of their dead relatives?And that&#39;s exactly what I&#39;m saying.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:但我没有屈服于这种一想到接近尸体或接近死亡就产生的五脏六腑的不适感，也没有去想这个概念根本不适用于我们生物或医学对于死亡的的定义，我总是喜欢思考托拉雅人看待死亡的方式涵盖了哪些医学定义的死亡所忽略的人类体验。我认为托拉雅人在社会上认同了并在文化上表达了大多数人感知的真理，尽管生物医学所定义的死亡被普遍接受。这种真理就是我们与其他人类之间的关联，这种关系对社会现实的影响，并不会随着身体物理性的死亡而终止，活着的人和死亡的人之间的关系有一段过渡期是被改变而不是被结束。所以托拉雅人通过将爱和关注给予这个关系中最明显的标志即人的身体来表达出这种长久的关系。所以我丈夫曾经跟他已故的祖父交谈过、玩耍过，有着美好的回忆，而且在他看来是一件很自然的事情。这是家庭接受他们与死者之间关系过渡的自然而然的一步。这种过渡就是，从与死者生前的联系变为把死者作为祖先的一员看待。在这里你可以看到这些祖先的木制的肖像，所以这些人已经被埋葬，已经有过葬礼仪式。这些叫做tau tau。
en:But instead of giving in to the sort of visceral reactionwe have to this idea of proximity to bodies,proximity to death,or how this notion just does not fitinto our very biological or medicalsort of definition of death,I like to think about what the Torajan wayof viewing death encompasses of the human experiencethat the medical definition leaves out.I think that Torajans socially recognizeand culturally expresswhat many of us feel to be truedespite the widespread acceptanceof the biomedical definition of death,and that is that our relationships with other humans,their impact on our social reality,doesn&#39;t cease with the terminationof the physical processes of the body,that there&#39;s a period of transitionas the relationship between the living and the deadis transformed but not ended.So Torajans express this idea of this enduring relationshipby lavishing love and attentionon the most visible symbol of that relationship,the human body.So my husband has fond memoriesof talking to and playing withand generally being around his deceased grandfather,and for him there is nothing unnatural about this.This is a natural part of the processas the family comes to terms with the transitionin their relationship to the deceased,and this is the transition from relating to the deceasedas a person who&#39;s livingto relating to the deceasedas a person who&#39;s an ancestor.And here you can see these wooden effigiesof the ancestors,so these are people who have already been buried,already had a funeral ceremony.These are called tau tau.
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:所以葬礼仪式本身体现了从社会关系的角度看待死亡。它使死亡对于家庭和社区的影响仪式化。它也是一个自我意识的时刻。根据托拉雅人的宇宙哲学，在这个时刻，人们思考他们的身份，他们在社会中的地位，以及他们在生命周期中的角色。
en:So the funeral ceremony itselfembodies this relational perspective on death.It ritualizes the impact of death on familiesand communities.And it&#39;s also a moment of self-awareness.It&#39;s a moment when people think about who they are,their place in society,and their role in the life cyclein accordance with Torajan cosmology.
时间： 7:33
zh-cn:在托拉雅有一句谚语那就是“所有人都将成为祖父母”，这意味着在死后，我们都成为祖先的一部分将我们定位在过去和现在之间也将我们的挚爱是谁定义到未来。所以从根本上说，对于我们的下一代我们都会成为祖父母。相当于说，我们都是更大的人类大家庭中的成员。这种比喻通常也被儿女们用来形容他们在这些祭祀水牛上投资的钱这些水牛被认为携带着人的灵魂从这里到来世。子女会解释说，他们将这些钱投资在这因为他们想要报答他们的父母这是孩子们在其父母投资、养育他们时所欠下的债。
en:There&#39;s a saying in Torajathat all people will become grandparents,and what this means is that after death,we all become part of the ancestral linethat anchors us between the past and the presentand will define who our loved ones are into the future.So essentially, we all become grandparentsto the generations of human childrenthat come after us.And this metaphor of membershipin the greater human familyis the way that children also describethe money that they investin these sacrificial buffaloesthat are thought to carry people&#39;s soulfrom here to the afterlife,and children will explainthat they will invest the money in thisbecause they want to repay their parentsthe debt for all of the years their parents spentinvesting and caring for them.
时间： 8:26
zh-cn:但祭祀的水牛和展示财富的仪式同样代表着死者的社会地位，也同样引申至死者家庭的社会地位。所以在葬礼上，关系再次被确认也同样被改变在一种仪式的戏剧中强调了这个地方关于死亡最突出的特点：死亡对生命、对生者之间关系的影响。
en:But the sacrifice of buffaloand the ritual display of wealthalso exhibits the status of the deceased,and, by extension, the deceased&#39;s family.So at funerals, relationships are reconfirmedbut also transformedin a ritual drama that highlightsthe most salient feature about death in this place:its impact on life and the relationships of the living.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:因此，所有对死亡的关注并不意味着托拉雅人不渴望长寿。他们进行各种锻炼认为这些有利于健康和长寿。但他们并不相信在面对疾病和衰老的时候能有办法延年益寿。听说在托拉雅每人都有预定的生命时间。它叫做sunga。就像一根线，它从一头拉到另一头直到自然终止。
en:So all of this focus on deathdoesn&#39;t mean that Torajans don&#39;t aspireto the ideal of a long life.They engage in many practicesthought to confer good healthand survival to an advanced age.But they don&#39;t put much stockin efforts to prolong life in the face of debilitating illnessor in old age.It&#39;s said in Toraja that everybody hassort of a predetermined amount of life.It&#39;s called the sunga&#39;.And like a thread, it should be allowed to unspoolto its natural end.
时间： 9:33
zh-cn:所以，死亡作为文化和社会生活结构的一部分，使得人们对于他们健康和医疗服务的日常抉择也被影响。我丈夫母系氏族的族长他叫Nenet Katcha,据我们所知，已接近 100 岁的高龄。有越来越多的迹象表明他正在向迈向死亡的路途中。他的死亡会引发强烈的哀悼。但我知道我丈夫的家族期待着这个时刻因为那时他们就可以用仪式展示他卓越的成就对他们生活的意义他们可以用仪式来记录他的生活故事，使他的故事编入他们社区的历史。他的故事就是他们的故事。他的葬礼之歌也是他们的颂扬之歌。这个故事没有明显开端也没有可预见的结束。这是一个在他的身体腐朽之后，一直延续的故事。
en:So by having death as a partof the cultural and social fabric of life,people&#39;s everyday decisions about their healthand healthcare are affected.The patriarch of my husband&#39;s maternal clan,Nenet Katcha,is now approaching the age of 100, as far as we can tell.And there are increasing signsthat he is about to depart on his own journey for Puya.And his death will be greatly mourned.But I know that my husband&#39;s familylooks forward to the momentwhen they can ritually displaywhat his remarkable presence has meant to their lives,when they can ritually recounthis life&#39;s narrative,weaving his storyinto the history of their community.His story is their story.His funeral songs will sing them a song about themselves.And it&#39;s a story that has no discernible beginning,no foreseeable end.It&#39;s a story that goes onlong after his body no longer does.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:人们问我，参与到这种文化中是否害怕或不情愿因为这其中处处都感到逝者就在你周围。但我看到一些深刻变革是将经历死亡作为一个社会进程而不是一种生物进程。在实际中，活人和死人之间的关系在美国医疗保健系统中有它自己的戏剧性，在决定到底将生命这根线拉多长时是根据我们的情感和与我们周围人的社会纽带，不只是基于医学延长生命的能力。我们如托拉雅人一样将生命中的决定基于我们赋予死亡的意义和定义。
en:People ask me if I&#39;m frightened or repulsedby participating in a culturewhere the physical manifestations of deathgreet us at every turn.But I see something profoundly transformativein experiencing death as a social processand not just a biological one.In reality, the relationship between the living and the deadhas its own drama in the U.S. healthcare system,where decisions about how long to stretchthe thread of life are made based on our emotionaland social ties with the people around us,not just on medicine&#39;s ability to prolong life.We, like the Torajans,base our decisions about lifeon the meanings and the definitionsthat we ascribe to death.
时间：11:48
zh-cn:所以我不是建议在座的所有人放弃美国的医疗保健而采取托拉雅人的传统。要将托拉雅模式在美国应用可能会有点困难。但我想问，当我们将死亡不仅看做一个生物的过程而看做更广阔的人类历史的一部分能收获什么？当我们真情地看着死者的身体而那曾是我们生命中不可或缺的一部分会是一种什么感觉？如果我们可以扩展我们对死亡的定义以涵盖生活，我们可能会体会到将死亡作为生活的一部分面对死亡时绝非恐惧而是其他的感觉。美国医疗保健系统正面临挑战，特别是对于老年医保。一个可能的解决方法就是转变看它的角度。而在这个例子中的转变就是去看看逝者的社会生活。它可以帮助我们认识到我们讨论死亡时总是局限于医学性、生物性这反映了我们都是如何避免死亡，害怕谈论它。如果我们能够接纳和重视关于生命的其他知识包括对死亡的其他定义，它才有可能改变我们关于生命终结的讨论。它可以改变我们死亡的方式，但更重要的是，它可以改变我们生活的方式。
en:So I&#39;m not suggesting that anyone in this audienceshould run out and adopt the traditionsof the Torajans.It might be a little bit difficultto put into play in the United States.But I want to ask what we can gainfrom seeing physical death not only as a biological processbut as part of the greater human story.What would it be like to look onthe expired human form with lovebecause it&#39;s so intimately a part of who we all are?If we could expand our definition of deathto encompass life,we could experience death as part of lifeand perhaps face deathwith something other than fear.Perhaps one of the answers to the challengesthat are facing the U.S. healthcare system,particularly in the end-of-life care,is as simple as a shift in perspective,and the shift in perspective in this casewould be to look at the social life of every death.It might help us recognize that the way we limitour conversation about deathto something that&#39;s medical or biologicalis reflective of a larger culture that we all shareof avoiding death, being afraid of talking about it.If we could entertain and valueother kinds of knowledge about life,including other definitions of death,it has the potential to change the discussionsthat we have about the end of life.It could change the way that we die,but more importantly,it could transform the way that we live.
时间：13:44
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
