时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我对于现代奴隶制度的兴趣是从我在伦敦读到的一个小宣传册开始的。这是上世纪90年代初的事情了，当时我是出席一个公共集会。那个小宣传册上面说：“今天，全世界仍有上百万的奴隶。”我当时想，“这绝对是扯淡。”可是现在我不得不承认我当年太自负了。另外，我还要承认一点，我当时在想，我身为一个年轻有为的主讲人权事务的全职教授，而对现代社会仍有上百万奴隶这一现状却一无所知，这简直太不可思议了。
en:You know for me, the interest in contemporary forms of slaverystarted with a leaflet that I picked up in London.It was the early &#39;90s,and I was at a public event.I saw this leaflet and it said,&quot;There are millions of slaves in the world today.&quot;And I thought, &quot;No way, no way.&quot;And I&#39;m going to admit to hubris.Because I also, I&#39;m going to admit to you,I also thought, &quot;How can I be likea hot-shot young full professorwho teaches human rights and not know this?So it can&#39;t be true.&quot;
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:既然我在知识的殿堂里进行教学工作，就应该对知识保持着虔诚，不能随意否定自己所不确定的东西。因为对待知识的虔诚能够给予人好奇心及求知欲望，给予人一股热情，让世界因你而不同。于是，我亲自查找了一些相关资料。我找到了3000篇关键词为“奴隶制”的文章，可是其中只有两篇是关于现代奴隶制度的，只有两篇。其余的讲的都是历史中的奴隶制。我找到的这些文章要么是义愤填膺，要么是充满了怀疑主义，要么是对一些小故事的渲染，但是没有什么确凿的信息。
en:Well, if you teach, if you worshipin the temple of learning,do not mock the gods,because they will take you,fill you with curiosity and desire,and drive you. Drive you with a passionto change things.I went out and did a lit review,3,000 articles on the key word &quot;slavery.&quot;Two turned out to be about contemporary — only two.All the rest were historical.They were press pieces and they were full of outrage,they were full of speculation, they were anecdotal —no solid information.
时间： 1:21
zh-cn:于是，我开始自己着手研究这一课题。我的足迹遍布在世界各地的五个国家。我和奴隶、奴隶主都有过接触。另外，我尤其观察了靠奴隶支撑的种种产业。因为这是一项由经济衍生的罪恶，奴隶主将奴隶奴役，不是为了折磨他们，而是为了从中牟利。另外，我要告诉你我在四个大洲做实地考察时所取得的发现，奴隶的生存现状在全世界都是惊人的凄苦，而又是惊人的相似。请看这个，这些是在非洲干农活的奴隶们，他们被鞭挞、被殴打，他们在向我们展示他们在逃离奴隶主之前，在遇见我们的摄制组之前，他们是如何在田间被殴打的。这很令人震惊。
en:So, I began to do a research project of my own.I went to five countries around the world.I looked at slaves. I met slaveholders,and I looked very deeplyinto slave-based businessesbecause this is an economic crime.People do not enslave people to be mean to them.They do it to make a profit.And I&#39;ve got to tell you, what I found out in the worldin four different continents,was depressingly familiar.Like this:Agricultural workers in Africa,whipped and beaten,showing us how they were beaten in the fieldsbefore they escaped from slaveryand met up with our film crew.It was mind-blowing.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:有一点我想说明，我所想大家展示的是赤裸裸的奴隶制。它不像一桩不合适的婚姻，或是一份糟糕的工作。奴隶们的自由被剥夺了，他们不能离开他们的主人，奴隶们被迫为他们的主人工作，却没有工资，奴隶们片刻不得休息，因为他们时刻生活在暴力的威胁下，即使如此，他们仍然得不到工资。这里我所谈到的现代的奴隶制和历史上我们所熟知的那种奴隶制是一模一样的。
en:And I want to be very clear.I&#39;m talking about real slavery.This is not about lousy marriages,this is not about jobs that suck.This is about people who can not walk away,people who are forced to work without pay,people who are operating 24/7under a threat of violenceand have no pay.It&#39;s real slavery in exactly the same waythat slavery would be recognizedthroughout all of human history.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:那么，现在哪里还有奴隶呢？看这个地图上发红、发黄的那些区域就是奴隶人口密度最高的地区。事实上，只有那些蓝色的区域是完全没有奴隶的国家。你也许会注意到，在全世界范围内只有冰岛和格陵兰是完全没有奴隶的存在的。
en:Now, where is it?Well, this map in the sort of redder, yellower colorsare the places with the highest densities of slavery.But in fact that kind of bluey colorare the countries where we can&#39;t find any cases of slavery.And you might notice that it&#39;s only Iceland and Greenlandwhere we can&#39;t find any cases of enslavementaround the world.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:关于现代奴隶制这一问题，其中有一点特别引起我研究的兴趣，那便是奴隶被用于破坏环境的种种产业中。奴隶在全世界范围内被广泛地雇佣于破坏环境的种种产业，例如在亚马逊热带雨林伐木，摧毁西非的丛林，在加纳和刚果等地开采汞并造成泄露，在南亚破坏当地沿岸的海洋生态环境。奴隶们的人权被践踏，世界各地的环境也遭受破坏，而这两者之间的联系尤为令人痛心。
en:We&#39;re also particularly interestedand looking very carefullyat places whereslaves are being used to perpetrateextreme environmental destruction.Around the world, slaves are used to destroy the environment,cutting down trees in the Amazon; destroyingforest areas in West Africa;mining and spreading mercury aroundin places like Ghana and the Congo;destroying the coastal ecosystems in South Asia.It&#39;s a pretty harrowing linkagebetween what&#39;s happening to our environmentand what&#39;s happening to our human rights.
时间： 3:33
zh-cn:事态为何会发展到如此地步，在2010年的今天，世界上竟然还有2700万奴隶？这个数字相当于当年跨大西洋奴隶贸易中所涉及的奴隶的整整两倍。造成如今奴隶现状的有三点因素，虽然这三点因素都不是直接导致现今奴隶的现状的，但都对其起助长作用。因素一，众所周知，是人口大爆炸。在过去的五十年里，世界人口从20亿激增到今天的差不多70亿了。人口众多并不导致奴隶问题，但是在发展中国家，过多的人口引发了一系列问题，比如内战、民族冲突、政府腐败、疾病等等，这些都使得很大一部分人变得更脆弱了。
en:Now, how on Earth did we get to a situation like this,where we have 27 million peoplein slavery in the year 2010?That&#39;s double the number that came out of Africain the entire transatlantic slave trade.Well, it builds up with these factors.They are not causal, they are actually supporting factors.One we all know about, the population explosion:the world goes from two billion people to almostseven billion people in the last 50 years.Being numerous does not make you a slave.Add in the increased vulnerability of very large numbers of peoplein the developing world,caused by civil wars, ethnic conflicts,kleptocratic governments, disease ... you name it, you know it.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:这其中的流程我们大家都清楚。在一些国家，上述的那些灾难同时发生，比如几年前的塞拉利昂。这一系列事件把不计其数的人逼迫到了生存的边缘，人们的生活极度窘迫，他们没有翻身的机会，日日与贫困为伴。但是这些也不能把一个人变成奴隶，真正把一个既贫困又脆弱的人变成一个奴隶的是法制的缺失。如果一个国家的法制是健全的，那么弱势群体也将会得到保护。但是如果腐败的毒瘤扩散开来，而且弱势群体们无法拿起法律的武器来保护自己，在一个社会里，使用暴力也不会受到制裁，那么，人们就可以轻易地将毒手伸到弱势群体中并把他们奴役。
en:We understand how that works. In some countriesall of those things happen at once,like Sierra Leone a few years ago,and push enormous parts ... about a billion people in the world, in fact,as we know, live on the edge,live in situations wherethey don&#39;t have any opportunity and are usually even destitute.But that doesn&#39;t make you a slave either.What it takes to turn a person who is destitute and vulnerableinto a slave, is the absence of the rule of law.If the rule of law is sound, it protectsthe poor and it protects the vulnerable.But if corruption creeps inand people don&#39;t have the opportunityto have that protection of the rule of law,then if you can use violence,if you can use violence with impunity,you can reach out and harvest the vulnerableinto slavery.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:实际上，这就是一个人变成奴隶的背景和过程。尽管，今天有很大一部分人，他们并不是被人绑架，或者是被人当头打晕，从而被奴役的。当说起被奴役的过程，全世界的奴隶可能都会给你讲同一个故事。
en:Well, that is precisely what has happened around the world.Though, for a lot of people,the people who stepinto slavery todaydon&#39;t usually get kidnapped or knocked over the head.They come into slavery becausesomeone has asked them this question.
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:对，这个故事放之四海皆准。故事大概就是这样：“有一天，我回家了,有个人来到了我的村庄，他从卡车的背后站了起来，对我问道：‘我要招工，你们谁想要工作？’”换成是在座的各位，面对这种状况估计也要和那些穷苦人做出同样的选择。穷人们回想当时的场景，“招工的人看上去挺可疑的但是我的孩子们都饿坏了。我们需要买药看病。我顾不了那么多了，只要有机会我就要赚钱养活我的家人。”穷人们爬进了卡车的后部，跟着招工的那人走了。走了不知多远，他们最后发现他们的工作肮脏、危险且下贱。他们工作了一段时间，可当他们试图离开的时候，却遭到了暴力阻止，直到这时，他们才意识到自己已经变成奴隶了。
en:All around the world I&#39;ve been told an almost identical story.People say, &quot;I was home,someone came into our village,they stood up in the back of a truck, they said, &#39;I&#39;ve got jobs,who needs a job?&#39;&quot;And they did exactly whatyou or I would do in the same situation.They said, &quot;That guy looked sketchy. I was suspicious,but my children were hungry.We needed medicine.I knew I had to do anything I couldto earn some money to support the people I care about.&quot;They climb into the back of the truck. They go off with the person who recruits them.Ten miles, 100 miles, 1,000 miles later,they find themselves in dirty, dangerous, demeaning work.They take it for a little while,but when they try to leave, bang!, the hammer comes down,and they discover they&#39;re enslaved.
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:历史中对人的奴役过程其实跟上述的都差不多。但是现代的奴隶制有一点很值得一提，那便是人口价格的急剧下滑。过去人口还很昂贵，但是今天却贱得很，就连电视里面的贸易类节目都开始注意到这点了。这里我想和大家分享一个小短片。
en:Now, that kind of slaveryis, again, pretty much what slavery has been all through human history.But there is one thing that is particularly remarkableand novel about slavery today,and that is a complete collapsein the price of human beings —expensive in the past, dirt cheap now.Even the business programs have startedpicking up on this.I just want to share a little clip for you.
时间： 6:43
zh-cn:视频：女主播：好的，欢迎大家收看我们的节目，我们将宏观地对经济展开一些讨论。参与我们今天节目的嘉宾是迈克尔.奥多诺胡“四大洲资产管理集团”的负责人。参与我们今天节目的还有来自劳森证券所的布伦特.劳森先生。
en:Daphne: OK. Llively discussion guaranteed here, as always,as we get macro and talk commodities.Continuing here in the studio with our guest Michael O&#39;Donohue,head of commodities at Four Continents Capital Management.And we&#39;re also joined by Brent Lawsonfrom Lawson Frisk Securities.
时间： 6:58
zh-cn:布伦特.劳森：很高兴来到这里。
en:Brent Lawson: Happy to be here.
时间： 7:00
zh-cn:女主播：很高兴你能参与我们的节目，布伦特。好的，先生们。布伦特，能说说你今年的资产流向么？
en:D: Good to have you with us, Brent.Now, gentlemen ... Brent, where is your money going this year?
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:布伦特.劳森：好的，达芙妮，最近我们对天然气和石油进行了卖空，另外，我们把贸易的范围又进一步扩大了。我们现在对人口的贸易很感兴趣。看看这个长期的图表，就会发现人口的价格出现了历史新低，然而对于劳动力的需求量依旧很大。针对这种现状，我觉得我们应该做人口贸易。
en:BL: Well Daphne, we&#39;ve been going short on gas and oil recentlyand casting our net just a little bit wider.We really like the human being story a lot.If you look at a long-term chart,prices are at historical lows and yet global demandfor forced labor is still real strong.So, that&#39;s a scenario that we think we should be capitalizing on.
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:女主播：迈克尔，关于人口贸易你持什么态度呢？你对这个问题感兴趣吗？
en:D: Michael, what&#39;s your take on the people story? Are you interested?
时间： 7:29
zh-cn:迈克尔：哦，当然感兴趣了，非志愿性劳动力最大的一项优势便是它的供应是源源不断的。劳动力永远都用不完，其他的商品可没有这个特性。
en:Michael O&#39;Donoghue: Oh definitely. Non-voluntary labor&#39;s greatest advantageas an asset is the endless supply.We&#39;re not about to run out of people. No other commodity has that.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:布伦特.劳森：达芙妮，我想让你注意一点，私募股权投资基金的人最近告诉我，买卖人口的生意很快就要火。如同以往，我们会继续买卖非洲人和印度人，另外，需要注意的是我们现在也要做南美人和东欧人的生意了。
en:BL: Daphne, if I may draw your attention to one thing.That is that private equity has been sniffing around,and that tells me that this market is about to explode.Africans and Indians, as usual,South Americans, and Eastern Europeans in particularare on our buy list.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:女主播：有意思，迈克尔，给大家最后总结一下吧？
en:D: Interesting. Micheal, bottom line, what do you recommend?
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:迈克尔：我建议我们的客户们采取屯仓策略。在人口市场做贸易没必要耍什么把戏。弱势群体的人口实在太多了，这十分激动人心。
en:MO: We&#39;re recommending to our clientsa buy and hold strategy.There&#39;s no need to play the market.There&#39;s a lot of vulnerable people out there. It&#39;s very exciting.
时间： 8:04
zh-cn:女主播：确实很有趣，先生们，多谢你们参与此节目。
en:D: Exciting stuff indeed. Gentlemen, thank you very much.
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:凯文.贝勒斯：好的，大家也能看出来，刚才那个短片是安排好的一个讽刺笑话。尽管我自己很喜欢这个片子，但是你们在明白这是一个笑话之前，一定会觉得诧异万分。这个小短片是我们和欧洲MTV公司合作制作的。它被插到了一个音乐视频中间，而且不加任何说明，我感觉挺逗的。好的，不开玩笑了。在过去40000年里一个人的平均价格按照今天的货币标准是40000美元。人无异于商品。现在注意人口激增所导致的两条线的交点。
en:Kevin Bales: Okay, you figured it out. That&#39;s a spoof.Though I enjoyed watchingyour jaws drop, drop, drop, until you got it.MTV Europe worked with us and made that spoof,and they&#39;ve been slipping it in between music videoswithout any introduction, which I think is kind of fun.Here&#39;s the reality.The price of human beings across the last 4,000 yearsin today&#39;s money has averaged about 40,000 dollars.Capital purchase items.You can see that the lines cross when the population explodes.
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:今天，在世界范围内一个人的平均价格差不多是90美元。在北美等一些地区，这个价格会更高些，一个奴隶在北美能卖到3000到8000美元。但是在印度或者尼泊尔这类地方，花上5美元到10美元就能买到一个人。我想要阐述的重点是人们现在连商品都算不上了，现在他们就像是一次性纸杯。你能用很少的钱买到他们，然后利用他们。当你把他们压榨得差不多的时候，你就能把他们压扁了扔掉。
en:The average price of a human being today,around the world, is about 90 dollars.They are more expensive in places like North America.Slaves cost between 3,000 to 8,000 dollars in North America,but I could take you places in India or Nepalwhere human beings can be acquired for five or 10 dollars.They key here is thatpeople have ceased to be that capital purchase itemand become like Styrofoam cups.You buy them cheaply, you use them,you crumple them up, and then when you&#39;re donewith them you just throw them away.
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:这些尼泊尔的小男孩，他们被一个采石场场主奴役着，承担者整个采石场的运输工作。因为那里没有路，所以这些小男孩就用自己的身体抗着沉重的石头，在喜马拉雅山上艰难跋涉。有一位男孩的母亲告诉我们，“你看，我们在这里根本就活不下去，不过我们又死不了。”这可真是一个可怕的情形。关于现代奴隶的现状，有一点还是值得我欣慰的，那就是，如今不但有像这位尼泊尔小男孩这样被奴役着的人们，还有一些逃跑成功的奴隶正致力于解放其他奴隶，或者可以说，弗雷德里克.道格拉斯（著名废奴主义者）就在我们身边。
en:These young boys are in Nepal.They are basically the transport systemon a quarry run by a slaveholder.There are no roads there, so they carry loads of stoneon their backs, often of their own weight,up and down the Himalaya Mountains.One of their mothers said to us,&quot;You know, we can&#39;t survive here,but we can&#39;t even seem to die either.&quot;It&#39;s a horrible situation.And if there is anything that makes me feel very positive about this,it&#39;s that there are also —in addition to young men like this who are still enslaved —there are ex-slaves who are now working to free others.Or, we say, Frederick Douglass is in the house.
时间： 9:52
zh-cn:我不晓得大家是否曾梦想过亲眼见见哈里特.塔伯曼（著名废奴主义者）？或者与弗雷德里克.道格拉斯（著名废奴主义者）见个面怎么样？我要说的是，我这份工作最激动人心的一部分就是我能遇见这样的人。我想为大家介绍这其中的一位，他的名字叫做詹姆斯.科菲.安南（和联合国秘书长重名了），他曾是一个加纳的童奴，在捕鱼业工作。在他成功出逃之后，他成立了一个解放奴隶的组织和我现在合作甚密。这个不是詹姆斯，这是一个他救出来的孩子。
en:I don&#39;t know if you&#39;ve ever had a daydreamabout, &quot;Wow. What would it be like to meet Harriet Tubman?What would it be like to meet Frederick Douglass?&quot;I&#39;ve got to say, one of the most exciting parts about my jobis that I get to,and I want to introduce you to one of those.His name is James Kofi Annan. He was a slave child in Ghanaenslaved in the fishing industry,and he now, after escape and building a new life,has formed an organization that we work closely withto go back and get people out of slavery.This is not James, this is one of the kids that he works with.
时间：10:23
zh-cn:视频：詹姆斯.科菲.安南：他被人用船桨给打了，看，打在脑袋上，这让我想起了我自己的童年，当时我就在这里工作。
en:James Kofi Annan (Video): He was hit with a paddlein the head. And this reminds meof my childhood when I used to work here.
时间：10:31
zh-cn:凯文.贝勒斯：詹姆斯和我们在加纳的向导伊曼纽尔.奥托经常收到死亡威胁，因为他们两个正在争取把三个人贩子治罪并且关进监狱，原因是这些人贩子在捕鱼业使用奴隶而且奴役儿童，这样的起诉在加纳史无前例。
en:KB: James and our country director in Ghana,Emmanuel Otoo are now receiving regular death threatsbecause the two of them managed to getconvictions and imprisonment for three human traffickersfor the very first time in Ghanafor enslaving people, from the fishing industry,for enslaving children.
时间：10:49
zh-cn:我承认，我现在所告诉你的一切都十分令人悲痛，但是这其中也有好的一面。那就是，尽管当今世界的奴隶有2700万之大，虽然数目看上去很庞大，但是这个数字所占世界总人口的奴隶比例是历史上最小的。同样的，使用奴隶的产业400亿美元的产值在全球总经济中的所占的份额也是有史以来最少的。
en:Now, everything I&#39;ve been telling you,I admit, is pretty disheartening.But there is actually a very positive side to this,and that is this: The 27 million peoplewho are in slavery today,that&#39;s a lot of people, but it&#39;s alsothe smallest fractionof the global population to ever be in slavery.And likewise, the 40 billion dollars that they generateinto the global economy each yearis the tiniest proportion of the global economyto ever be represented by slave labor.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:奴隶制度，在每个国家都是违法的，现如今，它已经被我们逼到了灭绝的边缘。也许我们自己还没有注意到，今天的奴隶制度已经占到了悬崖的边上，只要我们狠狠地踹他一脚，它就会被打倒，我们将从此不受奴隶制度的侵扰。这绝对是可行的。
en:Slavery, illegal in every countryhas been pushed to the edges of our global society.And in a way, without us even noticing,has ended up standing on the precipiceof its own extinction,waiting for us to give it a big bootand knock it over. And get rid of it.And it can be done.
时间：11:42
zh-cn:现在，如果我们能够付诸实践，并且把资源集中起来，解决奴隶制问题。大家可能会问，根除奴隶制的代价究竟有多大呢？在我告诉大家代价究竟有多大之前，有一点我必须申明，解决奴隶制问题不是花钱把人赎回来这么简单。从奴隶主手中花钱赎人就像是花钱把你丢了的电视从盗贼手里买回来。这是助纣为虐。诚然，解放奴隶确实需要花一些钱。
en:Now, if we do that, if we put the resourcesand the focus to it,what does it actually cost to get people out of slavery?Well, first, before I even tell you the costI&#39;ve got to be absolutely clear.We do not buy people out of slavery.Buying people out of slavery is likepaying a burglar to get your television back;it&#39;s abetting a crime.Liberation, however, costs some money.
时间：12:07
zh-cn:解放奴隶不是全部，更重要的是奴隶们被解放的后续工作。这不是一个独立的事件，这是一个持续的过程。我们要帮助奴隶们开始有尊严的生活，稳定的且能自由支配自己经济活动的生活，并且享有公民权。令人惊讶的是，在印度这种物价偏低的地方，有你所看到的这种三世同堂的家庭是世袭的奴隶。图片中的这位老人，一出生就是奴隶了。但是把这个三人奴隶家庭解放的总费用，包括各种善后工作的费用，如果通过分期付款的方式支付的话，总计不过需要150美元，另外还有用两年的时间为他们争取公民权和教育。
en:Liberation, and more importantlyall the work that comes after liberation.It&#39;s not an event, it&#39;s a process.It&#39;s about helping people to build lives of dignity,stability, economic autonomy,citizenship.Well, amazingly,in places like India where costs are very low,that family, that three-generation family that you see therewho were in hereditary slavery —so, that granddad there, was born a baby into slavery —but the total cost, amortizedacross the rest of the work,was about 150 dollars to bring that familyout of slavery and then take them through a two year processto build a stable life of citizenship and education.
时间：12:51
zh-cn:从加纳的捕鱼业解放一个男童差不多要400美元。但是在美国，解放一个奴隶就贵得多了，其中要涉及法律程序、医疗保险等等，你们懂的，这些费用差不多要30000美元。实际上，世界上绝大多数的奴隶所生活的地方，当地的物价指数都是最低的。在全球范围内解放一个奴隶的平均代价和加纳当地差不多（一个人400美元）。
en:A boy in Ghana rescued from fishing slavery, about 400 dollars.In the United States, North America,much more expensive. Legal costs, medical costs ...we understand that it&#39;s expensive here:about 30,000 dollars.But most of the people in the world in slaverylive in those places wherethe costs are lowest.And in fact, the global average is about what it isfor Ghana.
时间：13:15
zh-cn:那就意味着，把这个数字和世界奴隶总人口相乘，为全世界2700万奴隶取得自由的代价，不仅仅是自由，而是可持续性的自由，也只不过区区108亿美元而已。美国人花在零嘴上的钱差不多就有这些，西雅图花在轻轨上的钱差不多就有这些，我们全国每年花在买牛仔裤上的钱就有这些，或者是我们上个假期花在游戏机、随身听和给别人买的礼物上面的钱就能有108亿美元。因特尔第四季度的收入也是108亿美元。
en:And that means, when you multiply it up,the estimated cost ofnot just freedom but sustainable freedomfor the entire 27 million people on the planet in slaveryis something like 10.8 billion dollars —what Americans spend on potato chips and pretzels,what Seattle is going to spend on its light rail system:usually the annual expenditure in this country on blue jeans,or in the last holiday periodwhen we bought GameBoys and iPods and other tech gifts for people,we spent 10.8 billion dollars.Intel&#39;s fourth quarter earnings: 10.8 billion.
时间：13:53
zh-cn:在全球范围考虑，这108亿美元不算是什么大钱，简直是小菜一碟。这份投资最好的一点就是钱不是掉进无底洞了，这份钱所买来的自由是会产生红利的。当人们从奴役中被解放出来，为自己工作的时候，他们不更加有积极性么？他们把自己的孩子带出了工作的地方，他们建起了学校，然后说：“我们将会拥有我们之前从未拥有过的东西，比如三个广场，生病时候吃的药，冷的时候暖和的衣服。”他们将成为生产者和消费者，当地的经济也将因此迅猛发展。
en:It&#39;s not a lot of money at the global level.In fact, it&#39;s peanuts.And the great thing about it is thatit&#39;s not money down a hole,there is a freedom dividend. When you let people out of slaveryto work for themselves,are they motivated?They take their kids out of the workplace,they build a school, they say,&quot;We&#39;re going to have stuff we&#39;ve never had before like three squares,medicine when we&#39;re sick,clothing when we&#39;re cold.&quot;They become consumers and producersand local economies begin to spiral up very rapidly.
时间：14:26
zh-cn:我们要发展的是可持续性自由，这至关重要，因为，我们不想让在这个国家1865年时发生的悲剧再次重演。当年，有400万奴隶被解放了出来，但是他们又随即被抛弃了，奴隶们没能得到参政权，良好的教育，以及任何实际的改善经济水平的机会，他们数代人仍注定将生活在暴力和歧视的阴影下。今天的美国仍在为1865年不彻底的奴隶解放付出着代价。
en:That&#39;s important, all of thatabout how we rebuild sustainable freedom,because we&#39;d never want to repeatwhat happened in this country in 1865.Four million people were lifted up out of slaveryand then dumped.Dumped without political participation,decent education,any kind of real opportunityin terms of economic lives,and then sentenced to generations ofviolence and prejudice and discrimination.And America is still paying the pricefor the botched emancipation of 1865.
时间：15:02
zh-cn:我们要作出一项承诺，那就是，我们永远不能看着奴隶在我们的手里得到了解放，但最终仍沦为社会的二等公民。这绝对不会发生。真正的解放应该是这样。在加纳，在捕鱼业工作的童奴被解放出来和父母团聚，他们被他们的父母带回了故乡的村庄，重建他们新的经济生活，这样，他们便不可能再次被奴役，绝对不会。
en:We have made a commitmentthat we will never let peoplecome out of slavery on our watch,and end up as second class citizens.It&#39;s just not going to happen.This is what liberation really looks like.Children rescued from slavery in the fishing industry in Ghana,reunited with their parents,and then taken with their parents back to their villagesto rebuild their economic well-beingso that they become slave-proof —absolutely unenslaveable.
时间：15:41
zh-cn:现在，看这位妇女，她住在尼泊尔的一个村落。我们在那里工作了差不多一个月。她们刚刚从世袭制的奴役中被解放出来。她们才刚刚开始对未来燃起希望，迎接新生活。可当我们与她交谈并拍下这张照片的时候，奴隶主仍然在暗中对我们很不友好。奴隶主面对我们的对抗并没有退缩。我当时挺害怕的，我们当时都害怕了。我们问她，“你害怕么？你有不安么？”
en:Now, this womanlived in a village in Nepal.We&#39;d been working there about a month.They had just begun to come out of a hereditary kind of slavery.They&#39;d just begun to light up a little bit,open up a little bit.But when we went to speak with her, when we took this photograph,the slaveholders were still menacing usfrom the sidelines. They hadn&#39;t been really pushed back.I was frightened. We were frightened.We said to her, &quot;Are you worried? Are you upset?&quot;
时间：16:12
zh-cn:她说，“不，因为我们现在的生活有盼头了。当有像你们这样的人从世界的另一端来到这里帮助我们，我们何愁不能成功？”
en:She said, &quot;No, because we&#39;ve got hope now.How could we not succeed,&quot; she said,&quot;when people like you from the other side of the worldare coming here to stand beside us?&quot;
时间：16:27
zh-cn:让我们问自己一个问题，我们是否愿意生活在一个没有奴隶的世界？我们也许只是袖手旁观，等待着能有别人站出来通过日常消费和制定政府政策来改变奴隶制的现状。但是有一点应该能够取得大家的共识，那便是：奴隶制应当灭亡。
en:Okay, we have to ask ourselves,are we willing to live in a world with slavery?If we don&#39;t take action, we just leave ourselves opento have someone else jerk the stringsthat tie us to slavery in the products we buy,and in our government policies.And yet, if there&#39;s one thing that every human being can agree on,I think it&#39;s that slavery should end.
时间：16:53
zh-cn:如果有什么东西从根本上侵犯了人类的尊严，那真是十分可怕，而这东西，就是奴隶制。我不禁要问，智力、政治力量和经济力量究竟有什么实在的好处么？如果我们这一个屋子里面的人不能够用我们的智慧打倒奴隶制，那么智慧又有何用呢？我认为，我们这间屋子理所蕴含的智慧足够强大能把奴隶制打倒了。另外你知道么，假如我们做不到，如果我们做不到利用我们的智慧解放奴隶的话，我有最后一个问题留给大家，那我们还能算是真正自由的人吗？好，谢谢大家。（鼓掌）
en:And if there is a fundamental violationof our human dignitythat we would all say is horrific,it&#39;s slavery.And we&#39;ve got to say,what good is all of our intellectualand political and economic power —and I&#39;m really thinking intellectual power in this room —if we can&#39;t use it to bring slavery to an end?I think there is enough intellectual power in this roomto bring slavery to an end.And you know what? If we can&#39;t do that,if we can&#39;t use our intellectual power to end slavery,there is one last question:Are we truly free?Okay, thank you so much.(Applause)
