时间： 0:11
zh-cn:气候到底发生了什么？糟糕地让人难以置信。显然，这是我们所熟悉的北极美景，而这将很快消失不见，可能只是三、四或五年之后。非常！非常！非常可怕！
en:What&#39;s happening to the climate?It is unbelievably bad.This is, obviously, that famous view now of the Arctic,which is likely to be gone at this pointin the next three or four or five years. Very, very, very scary.
时间： 0:23
zh-cn:所以我们都在思考着我们对此能够做些什么。当我们看到世界范围内二氧化碳的来源图时，52%与建筑物有关。说来有趣，只有9%来自汽车。有次我们来到了某个寿司吧。而在这个寿司吧中我们有了一个伟大的想法。它被命名为生态石(EcoRock)。我们说自己能够重新设计具有115年历史的石膏墙体工艺，正是它每年产生着200亿磅的二氧化碳。因此这是一个伟大的想法。我们希望在这个数字的基础上降低80%。这正是我们所完成的。
en:So we all look at what we can do.And when you look at the worldwide sources of CO2,52 percent are tied to buildings.Only nine percent is passenger cars, interestingly enough.So we ran off to a sushi bar.And at that sushi bar we came up with a great idea.And it was something called EcoRock.And we said we could redesign the 115-year-oldgypsum drywall process that generates20 billion pounds of CO2 a year.So it was a big idea. We wanted to reduce that by 80 percent,which is exactly what we&#39;ve done.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:我们于2006年开始进行研发。并决定使用从水泥和钢铁制造生产中所提取的可回收组分。这是我们的实验室。之前并没有向外展示过。但是我们的成员们不得不尝试5000种不同的配方以找到最佳配方并满足我们的目标。他们真的非常非常非常努力地工作。然后我们进一步在中国建设了生产线。遗憾地是我们将不会在美国建立这样的生产线。
en:We started R&amp;D in 2006.Decided to use recycled content from cementand steel manufacturing.There is the inside of our lab. We haven&#39;t shown this before.But our people had to do some 5,000different mixes to get this right, to hit our targets.And they worked absolutely very, very, very hard.So then we went forward and built our production line in China.We don&#39;t build this production equipment any longer in the U.S., unfortunately.
时间： 1:14
zh-cn:整个夏天我们都忙于生产线的安装。我们就是从那里开始，从无到有。您将会第一次看到全新的墙体生产线完全不使用石膏。那是我们所完成的生产线。并在12月3日生产出第一块墙板。这是原料浆正被倒在纸板上。那是正在运行中的生产线。最让人兴奋的是，看看这些人的表情。他们为了这个项目整整工作了两三年他们是如此兴奋。那是顺利下线的第一块墙板。我们的运营副总裁正在亲吻这块墙板。很明显他非常非常兴奋。
en:We did the line install over the summer.We started right there, with absolutely nothing.You&#39;re seeing for the first time, a brand new drywall production line,not made using gypsum at all.That&#39;s the finished production line there.We got our first panel out on December third.That is the slurry being poured onto paper, basically. That&#39;s the line running.The exciting thing is, look at the faces of the people.These are people who worked this project for two to three years.And they are so excited. That&#39;s the first board off the line.Our Vice President of Operation kissing the board. Obviously very, very excited.
时间： 1:44
zh-cn:这将会对环境造成巨大的影响。几周之后我们举行了盛大的签字仪式，大家都在这第一块墙板上签上自己的名字。希望全世界的人可以开始使用这些产品。这个产品得到了C2C标志认证(金牌)。我们最近还以“墙体材料的改良发明”获得《科技新时代》杂志所评选的年度绿色产品奖。谢谢，谢谢！这里是我们所学到的。8000加仑的气体相当于建造一座房屋。也许你不太清楚，这相当于开车绕地球六圈。
en:But this has a huge, huge impact on the environment.We signed the first panel just a few weeks after that, had a great signing ceremony,leading to people hopefully using these products across the world.And we&#39;ve got Cradle-to-Cradle Gold on this thing.We happened to win, just recently, the Green Product of the Yearfor &quot;The Re-Invention of Drywall,&quot; from Popular Science.Thank you. Thank you.So here is what we learned: 8,000 gallons of gasequivalent to build one house.You probably had no idea. It&#39;s like driving around the world six times.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:我们必须改变一切。看看我们的房间，椅子，木材。所有我们身边的一切都必须改变，否则我们无法轻易解决这个问题。请不要听您们周围的人说您做不到，因为每一个人都可以做到对于失业者，我们将会提供“绿领”工作岗位。我们有四座工厂，并正在全国范围内不断建造中。我们将尽可能加速进度。石膏的碳排量相当于250万辆汽车，这我们已经认识到了，是吧？那么你们会怎样做呢？我将会告诉你们我所做的以及为什么去做。我的时间似乎快到了。
en:We must change everything.Look around the room: chairs, wood,everything around us has to change or we&#39;re not going to lick this problem.Don&#39;t listen to the people who say you can&#39;t do this, because anyone can.And these job losses, we can fix them with green-collar jobs.We&#39;ve got four plants. We&#39;re building this stuff around the country.We&#39;re going as fast as we can.Two and a half million cars worth of gypsum,you know, CO2 generated. Right?So what will you do? I&#39;ll tell you what I did and why I did it. And I know my time&#39;s up.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:这是我的孩子，纳塔莉和大卫。当他们在2050年有了自己的孩子时。他们将会看着爷爷说“嘿，你干得不错。你和你的团队已倾尽所能。”所以我希望你们离开TED后，请想办法降低自己的碳排放量并为此尽一切努力。当不知道如何做时，请联系我。我将会帮助您。
en:Those are my kids, Natalie and David.When they have their kids, 2050,they&#39;d better look back at Grandpa and say,&quot;Hey, you gave it a good shot. You did the best you couldwith the team that you had.&quot;So my hope is that when you leave TED,you will look at reducing your carbon footprintin however you can do it.And if you don&#39;t know how, please find me — I will help you.
时间： 2:57
zh-cn:最后一点，比尔·盖茨，我知道你发明了视窗操作系统(Windows)等着瞧，明年我们能发明出怎样的窗子。感谢大家的倾听。(鼓掌)
en:Last but not least, Bill Gates, I know you invented Windows.Wait till you see, maybe next year, what kind of windows we&#39;ve invented.Thank you so much.(Applause)
