时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想谈谈我的调查在我们生活中，技术是什么，它不仅仅是我们眼前的生活，还有宇宙层面上，从漫长的历史世界到我们人类在世界上所处的地位，这技术到底意味什么？有什么意义？好，我来谈谈我所发现的小故事。
en:I want to talk about my investigationsinto what technology means in our lives —not just our immediate life, but in the cosmic sense,in the kind of long history of the worldand our place in the world:What is this stuff?What is the significance?And so, I want to kind of go through mylittle story of what I found out.
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:我首先要谈的是我着手研究过的技术这个词的由来在美国，从1790年起，每位总统都要发表一个国情咨文的报告。每一份国情咨文总结了美国当时发生的最重要的事情如果你搜索“技术”这个词你会发现，一直到1952年，“技术”这个词才被使用。所以技术这个概念一直到到1952年，也就是我出生的那一年，才在人们脑海中出现。显然，技术之前就已经存在，只是我们没有意识到它的存在。因此在1952年前后我们生活中这种技术力量开始觉醒。
en:And one of the first things that I started to investigate wasthe history of the name of technology.And in the United States there is a State of the Union addressgiven by every president since 1790.And each one of those is really kind ofsumming up the most important thingsfor the United States at that time.If you search for the word &quot;technology,&quot;it was not used until 1952.So, technology was sort of absentfrom everybody&#39;s thinking until 1952, which happened to be the year of my birth.And obviously, technologyhad existed before then, but we weren&#39;t aware of it,and so it was sort of an awakeningof this force in our life.
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:实际上我研究了解到第一次使用“技术”是在1829年。一个安排课程表，课程的人发明了它，用来把工艺美术和工业整合到一起。他称它为技术。这是第一次使用这个单词。
en:I actually did research to find out the firstuse of the word &quot;technology.&quot;It was in 1829,and it was invented by a guy who was starting a curriculum —a course, bringing together all the kindsof arts and crafts, and industry —and he called it &quot;Technology.&quot;And that&#39;s the very first use of the word.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:那么，我们都为之所占有，被为之惴惴不安的这东西到底是什么？阿兰·凯伊说：“技术是当你出生后才被发明的东西。”（笑声）我们通常也是这么想的技术就是新的东西不是指道路，或者盘尼西林，或者轮胎厂。技术是指新东西。我朋友丹尼希利斯说过类似的话，他说：“技术，就是一些还不能很好的使用的玩意。”（笑声）这又再次证明技术是指新的东西。
en:So, what is this stuffthat we&#39;re all consumed by,and bothered by?Alan Kay calls it, &quot;Technology is anythingthat was invented after you were born.&quot;(Laughter)Which is sort of the idea that we normally have about what technology is:It&#39;s all that new stuff.It&#39;s not roads, or penicillin,or factory tires; it&#39;s the new stuff.My friend Danny Hillis says kind of a similar one,he says, &quot;Technology is anything that doesn&#39;t work yet.&quot;(Laughter)Which is, again, a sense that it&#39;s all new.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:但是我们知道它不仅仅是新东西，它也可以追溯到过去。我要建议的是技术有一段很长的历史演变。那么，换种方式来思考技术，它意味着什么，想象一个没有技术的世界。如果我们去除当今世界的每个独特的技术，我是指所有技术，从刀片到刮刀再到织物，作为一个物种，我们就不会活很长时间。数十亿人会很快地死掉。狼群会吃我们，以致于我们无法防身。我们将无法生产足够的粮食，或者找不到足够的食物。
en:But we know that it&#39;s just not new.It actually goes way back, and what I want to suggestis it goes a long way back.So, another way to think about technology, what it means,is to imagine a world without technology.If we were to eliminate every single bit of technology in the world today —and I mean everything,from blades to scrapers to cloth —we as a species would not live very long.We would die by the billions, and very quickly:The wolves would get us, we would be defenseless,we would be unable to grow enough food, or find enough food.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:甚至是猎人打猎也使用一些基本工具。尽管他们用最少的技术，但他们已经有了一些技术。如果我们研究这些狩猎采集部落和非常类似于早期人类的尼安德特人，我们会发现没有技术的世界一个非常新奇的事情，这就是他们的平均年龄曲线。
en:Even the hunter-gatherers used some elementary tools.And so, they had minimal technology,but they had some technology.And if we study those hunter-gatherer tribesand the Neanderthal, which are very similar to early man,we find out a very curious thing about this world without technology,and this is a kind of a curve of their average age.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:我们迄今发现没有一块尼安德特人化石显示他们寿命超过40岁这些狩猎采集部落大多数人平均年龄是20-30岁。因为非常高死亡率，所以非常少的婴幼儿存活，也有很少的老年人存活。这是你们旧金山周边人们的平均年龄资料。有很多年轻人。如果你去旧金山那里，你说，“嘿，大家都很健康吧。”嗯，那是因为他们都很年轻。
en:There are no Neanderthal fossils that are older than 40 years oldthat we&#39;ve ever found,and the average age of most of thesehunter-gatherer tribes is 20 to 30.There are very few young infantsbecause they die — high mortality rate — and there&#39;s very few old people.And so the profile is sort of for your average San Francisco neighborhood:a lot of young people.And if you go there, you say, &quot;Hey, everybody&#39;s really healthy.&quot;Well, that&#39;s because they&#39;re all young.
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:狩猎采集部落和早期人的同样问题是他们活不到30岁。因此，那是一个没有祖父母的世界。祖父母也是非常重要的，因为他们是文化演变和信息的传承者。想象一个世界，基本上每个人都在20岁至30岁，你可以学到什么东西？在你仅有的生命中，你不可能学到很多东西，它太短了。没有人可以传授给你所要学的东西。这只是一个方面。
en:And the same thing with the hunter-gatherer tribes and early manis that you didn&#39;t live beyond the age of 30.So, it was a world without grandparents.And grandparents are very important,because they are the transmitter of cultural evolution and information.Imagine a world and basically everybody was 20 to 30 years old.How much learning can you do?You can&#39;t do very much learning in your own life,it&#39;s so short,and there&#39;s nobody to pass on what you do learn.So, that&#39;s one aspect.
时间： 3:53
zh-cn:生命太短暂。但同时人类学家知道世界上多数狩猎采集部落使用很少的技术，其实他们并没有花很长的时间采集他们所需要的食物。一天3至6小时狩猎采集。一些人类学家称之为原始富足社会。因为他们基本上有工作小时，类似于银行家小时。就有可能获得足够的粮食。但当食物不足时，收成不稳定和干旱来临时，人们就进入饥饿时期。这也是他们活不长久的原因。
en:It was a very short life. But at the same timeanthropologists knowthat most hunter-gatherer tribes of the world,with that very little technology, actually did not spenda very long time gathering the food that they needed:three to six hours a day.Some anthropologists call that the original affluent society.Because they had banker hours basically.So, it was possible to get enough food.But when the scarcity camewhen the highs and lows and the droughts came,then people went into starvation.And that&#39;s why they didn&#39;t live very long.
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:因此技术都带来什么，通过这样很简单的工具，像这里的石器，甚至一些小到这样的工具，伴随人类的早期动物，当它们1万年前第一次出现在北美洲，大约250种巨型动物群事实上它们都被淘汰和灭绝了。所以，早在工业时代我们虽然那时用的技术很少但人类就已经在全球范围内影响地球
en:So, what technology brought,through the very simple tools like these stone tools here —even something as small as this —the early bands of humans were actually ableto eliminate to extinctionabout 250 megafauna animalsin North America when they first arrived 10,000 years ago.So, long before the industrial agewe&#39;ve been affecting the planet on a global scale,with just a small amount of technology.
时间： 4:54
zh-cn:另一件事情是早期人类发明了火。火是用来清除丛林，并再次影响生态草地和整个大陆，并用于做饭。它使我们可以吃各种东西。在某种意义上，从麦克卢汉意义上，它是一个外在的胃。在这个意义上讲，只有用火烹调食物，否则我们不能吃。如果我们没有火，我们根本无法生存。我们身体已经适应了这些新的饮食习惯。过去1万年，我们的身体已经改变了。
en:The other thing that the early man invented was fire.And fire was used to clear out, and again,affected the ecology of grass and whole continents,and was used in cooking.It enabled us to actually eat all kinds of things.It was sort of, in a certain sense, in a McLuhan sense,an external stomach,in the sense that it was cooking food that we could not eat otherwise.And if we don&#39;t have fire, we actually could not live.Our bodies have adapted to these new diets.Our bodies have changed in the last 10,000 years.
时间： 5:25
zh-cn:所以，应用很少的技术，人类就从大约1万少数人发展起来，同等于那时遍布各地的尼安特人的数量，我们发明了语言，突然人口爆炸了，大约5万年前，人口数量呈爆炸式发展，非常快地就变成了这地球上的主宰者。以每年2公里速度，仅仅数万年人类就迁移到世界各地懂得少量技术以后我们人类就占领这地球上每一个分水岭地变成那里的最主要的物种
en:So, with that little bit of technology,humans went from a small band of 10,000 or so —the same number as Neanderthals everywhere —and we suddenly exploded. With the invention of languagearound 50,000 years ago,the number of humans exploded,and very quickly became the dominant species on the planet.And they migrated into the rest of the world at two kilometers per yearuntil, within several tens of thousands of years,we occupied every single watershed on the planetand became the most dominant species,with a very small amount of technology.
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:甚至在那个时候，8000年至1万年以前伴随农业的发展我们就开始有气候变化。所以气候变化不是一个新鲜事物。新鲜的是气候变化的程度。甚至在农业时代就有了气候变化。因此，少量的技术已经在改变着世界。这意味着，我所指的是技术已经变成世界上最强大的力量。我们今天所看到的所有改变我们生活的事情，我们都可以追溯归结为一些新技术的发明。
en:And even at that time, with the introduction of agriculture,8,000, 10,000 years agowe started to see climate change.So, climate change is not a new thing.What&#39;s new is just the degree of it. Even duringthe agricultural age there was climate change.And so, already small amounts of technologywere transforming the world.And what this means, and where I&#39;m going, is thattechnology has become the most powerful force in the world.All the things that we see todaythat are changing our lives, we can always trace backto the introduction of some new technology.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:所以这是一种力量它是这地球上已经被释放的最最强大的力量强大到使我相信技术变成我们人类自己事实上，我们的人性，和一切关于我们自己的想法思考都是我们后来发明的所以，我们发明了我们自身。被我们驯服的所有动物当中，最重要的一个就是我们自身。对吧？所以，人性是我们最伟大的发明。
en:So, it&#39;s a force that is the most powerful forcethat has been unleashed on this planet,and in such a degree that I thinkthat it&#39;s become our — who we are.In fact, our humanity, and everything that we think about ourselvesis something that we&#39;ve invented.So, we&#39;ve invented ourselves. Of all the animals that we have domesticated,the most important animal that we&#39;ve domesticatedhas been us. Okay?So, humanity is our greatest invention.
时间： 6:53
zh-cn:当然了，我们还没有完全做好。我们还在发明。这就是我们可以做的技术。继续再发掘人的潜力去重新发明。这是超强大的力量。我们人类作为技术本身，这就是头等大事，我们创造的每一件事，日常生活每个工具，我们称之为技术元素。这就是技术世界。我现在对技术的定义是人类创造的任何有用的东西。不仅仅指锤子，或者像笔记本的工具。但也指规律，法则。当然对我们人类来说，城市是种方法使事情变得更加有用。此时，我脑海中冒出的想法，技术也深深扎根于宇宙空间。
en:But of course we&#39;re not done yet.We&#39;re still inventing, and this is what technology is allowing us to do —it&#39;s continually to reinvent ourselves.It&#39;s a very, very strong force.I call this entire thing — us humans as our technology,everything that we&#39;ve made, gadgets in our lives —we call that the technium. That&#39;s this world.My working definition of technologyis &quot;anything useful that a human mind makes.&quot;It&#39;s not just hammers and gadgets, like laptops.But it&#39;s also law. And of course cities are ways to makethings more useful to us.While this is something that comes from our mind,it also has its roots deeplyinto the cosmos.
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:追溯技术，它的起源和最初的根源要回到大爆炸，因此，技术的起源是一个自组织的网，它开始于大爆炸，再穿过星系和恒星进入到我们的生活。早期宇宙的三个主要阶段是能量，那时主导力量是能量。然后主导力量变化，随着能量冷却，它变成物质。40亿年前，随着生命物质的发展，在我们周边主导力量变为信息。这就是生活。信息处理就是重新构建与重新排序的过程
en:It goes back. The origins and roots of technologygo back to the Big Bang,in this way, in that they are part of thisself-organizing threadthat starts at the Big Bangand goes through galaxies and stars,into life, into us.And the three major phases of the early universewas energy, when the dominant force was energy;then it became, the dominant force, as it cooled, became matter;and then, with the invention of life, four billion years ago,the dominant force in our neighborhood became information.That&#39;s what life is: It&#39;s an information processthat was restructuring and making new order.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:所以，爱因斯坦发现的这些能量物质是可以相等转化的，现在新的量子计算的科学显示熵/平均信息量与信息，物质和能量都是相互关联的，所以它是一个长期连续体。当你把能量放到合适的体系中，而产生了废热熵，和废除物，这就是规律而且规律还在变化。
en:So, those energy, matter Einstein showwere equivalent, and now new sciencesof quantum computing show that entropyand information and matter and energyare all interrelated, so it&#39;s one long continuum.You put energy into the right kind of systemand out comes wasted heat, entropyand extropy, which is order.It&#39;s the increased order.
时间： 8:31
zh-cn:那么，这规则是从哪来的？它的根源早就有了。我们竟然还不知道。但是我们知道整个宇宙的自我组织趋势是很长远的，它起源于像星系的东西。它们保持了数十亿年的规则。星星们基本上是数十亿年自我组织自我维持自己的核裂变化这违背了世界普世的秩序。花卉和植物是同样的东西，在发展延伸。技术基本上是一个生命的延续。
en:Where does this order come from? Its roots go way back.We actually don&#39;t know.But we do know that the self-organization trendthroughout the universe is long,and it began with things like galaxies;they maintained their order for billions of years.Stars are basically nuclear fusion machinesthat self-organize and self-sustain themselves for billions of years,this order against the entropy of the world.And flowers and plants are the same thing, extended,and technology is basically an extension of life.
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:我们在所有这些事情里发现一个趋势是每克每秒在这流动变化的能量实际上是增加的。能量通过这个小顺序在增加。每克每秒在生命中流动变化的能量实际上比一个星星能量要大得多，因为星星的长寿命，生命中的能量密度实际上要高于星星的能量密度。我们所见到的最大的，在宇宙中的任何地方所看到的能量密度实际上是储存在个人芯片。它是每克每秒产生的能量都比我们接触任何其他事物的能量要多得多
en:One trend that we notice in all those things is thatthe amount of energy per gram per secondthat flows through this, is actually increasing.The amount of energy is increasing through this little sequence.And that the amount of energy per gram per second that flows through lifeis actually greater than a star —because of the star&#39;s long lifespan,the energy density in life is actually higher than a star.And the energy density that we see in the greatestof anywhere in the universe is actually in a PC chip.There is more energy flowing through, per gram per second,than anything that we have any other experience with.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:所以我的建议是如果你想知道技术将怎么发展，我们还在这轨迹变化上，我们晓得什么将变成更多能源密度，这就是技术发展趋势。因此我所做的是我已经研究了同样的事情看生命进化的其他方面和总结，什么是生命进化的总趋势。一些事情朝着更加复杂化，更加多样化，更加专业化，更具有感知性，更加普遍存在和最重要的，更具有进化发展性。正是这些事情是当今发展的技术，也是技术发展的潮流。
en:What I would suggest is that if you want to seewhere technology is going, we continue that trajectory,and we say &quot;Well what&#39;s going to become more energy-dense,that&#39;s where it&#39;s going.&quot; And so what I&#39;ve doneis, I&#39;ve taken the same kinds of thingsand looked at other aspectsof evolutionary life and say,&quot;What are the general trends in evolutionary life?&quot;And there are things moving towardsgreater complexity, moving towards greater diversity,moving towards greater specialization,sentience, ubiquity and most important, evolvability:Those very same things are also present in technology.That&#39;s where technology is going.
时间：10:18
zh-cn:事实上，在生活的各个方面技术的发展都变得越来越快我们会看到这种变化。正如在生活中存在的多样性，我们可以创造更多多样性的事情。生命中事物开始是一般细胞，它们变得专业化。你有组织细胞。你有肌肉，脑细胞。同样的道理就如最初一般的锤子它变得更加具体化。所以我想说，现在有6个生命王国，我们可以认为技术基本上是第7个生命王国。这是一个有别于人类形式的分支。
en:In fact, technology is acceleratingall the aspects of life,and we can see that happening; just as there&#39;s diversity in life,there&#39;s more diversity in things we make.Things in life start out being general cell,and they become specialized: You have tissue cells,you have muscle, brain cells. And same things happens withsay, a hammer, which is general at firstand becomes more specific.So, I would like to say that while there is six kingdoms of life,we can think of technology basicallyas a seventh kingdom of life.It&#39;s a branching off from the human form.
时间：10:48
zh-cn:但技术有它自己的议程就像其他事，就像生命本身。比如现在，我们使用的四分之三能源实际上是用来供应技术元素自身。在交通运输，它不是移动我们，而是移动我们生产的和想买的东西。我使用这个词“想要”描述。技术想要什么。机器人想使它自己得到更多能量。你的猫想要更多的食物。一个没有任何意识的细菌想要移到光亮地方。这往往是驱策，技术有着驱策力。
en:But technology has its own agenda,like anything, like life itself.For instance, right now, three-quarters of the energy that we useis actually used to feed the technium itself.In transportation, it&#39;s not to move us, it&#39;s to movethe stuff that we make or buy.I use the word &quot;want.&quot; Technology wants.This is a robot that wants to plug itself in to get more power.Your cat wants more food.A bacterium, which has no consciousness at all,wants to move towards light.It has an urge, and technology has an urge.
时间：11:16
zh-cn:同时，技术想要创造出事物。技术带给我们的基本上是改进。你可以看看这些曲线图表，他们都是向上发展变化的。如果我们扣去技术的成本这确实是毫无争议的进步困扰大多数人的事情是技术的确是真的进步了，但我们会吃惊和质疑我们为此所付出的环境代价。
en:At the same time, it wants to give us things,and what it gives us is basically progress.You can take all kinds of curves, and they&#39;re all pointing up.There&#39;s really no dispute about progress,if we discount the cost of that.And that&#39;s the thing that bothers most people,is that progress is really real,but we wonder and question: What are the environmental costs of it?
时间：11:37
zh-cn:我做了一个在我家的人造物品种类数量的调查，共有6千件。其他人的数量加起来有1万件。当英国亨利国王死时，他家有1万8千件东西。那就是整个英国的全部财富。尽管有了整个英国的全部财富，亨利国王不可以买任何抗生素。他买不到电冰箱。他买不到数以千里的旅游。但是这个在印度的人力黄包车夫可以积攒钱和买抗生素。他也可以购得电冰箱。他可以买到亨利国王用他全部财富也买不到的东西。这就是技术进步的例子。
en:I did a survey of a number of species of artifacts in my house,and there&#39;s 6,000. Other people have come up with 10,000.When King Henry of England died,he had 18,000 things in his house,but that was the entire wealth of England.And with that entire wealth of England,King Henry could not buy any antibiotics,he could not buy refrigeration, he could not buy a trip of a thousand miles.Whereas this rickshaw wale in Indiacould save up and buy antibioticsand he could buy refrigeration.He could buy things that King Henry, in all his wealth, could never buy.That&#39;s what progress is about.
时间：12:14
zh-cn:当然，技术是自私的，技术是慷慨的。这种冲突和紧张会伴随我们永远。有时技术就想做它想做的事情。有时技术为了我们大家做些事情。我们搞不清我们应该怎样思考一项新技术。当新技术来临现在人们的默认方法是讨论有什么预警的原理这在欧洲非常普遍。简单说就是：“不要去做任何事。”当你遇到一个新技术，请停止，直到它被证明是没有害处的。我认为这的确行不通。
en:So, technology is selfish; technology is generous.That conflict, that tension, will be with us forever,that sometimes it wants to do what it wants to do,and sometimes it&#39;s going to do things for us.We have confusion about what we should think about a new technology.Right now the default position about whena new technology comes along, is we —people talk about the precautionary principle,which is very common in Europe,which says, basically, &quot;Don&#39;t do anything. When you meet a newtechnology, stop,until it can be proven that there&#39;s no harm.&quot;I think that really leads nowhere.
时间：12:46
zh-cn:但我觉得更好的办法是，我称它为先行动原则。它是指你参与从事技术。你可以试试看。你明显做不干预原则建议的做法，你也可以试试先行动原则，当但你试过先行动原则后，你会经常使用它，不仅仅一次，而是永远使用。但当技术偏离于你想要的技术时，我们优化风险，我们不只是评估新东西，还有老东西。我们解决问题，但最重要的是我们重组技术。我这指的是我们给技术找到新的任务工作。
en:But a better way is to, what I call proactionary principle,which is: You engage with technology.You try it out.You obviously do what the precautionary principle suggests,you try to anticipate it, but after anticipating it,you constantly asses it,not just once, but eternally.And when it diverts from what you want,we prioritize risk, we evaluate not justthe new stuff, but the old stuff.We fix it, but most importantly, we relocate it.And what I mean by that is thatwe find a new job for it.
时间：13:17
zh-cn:用于军事目的的核能，核裂变是一个坏主意当是这技术可能是一个绝好的点子，只要我们重新应用它到可持续发展核能源用来生电而代替火力生电。当我们有一个坏主意，对这坏主意的反应不是这主意，也不是要停下来思考。而是对此反应就像这个钨灯泡的例子，它会变成一个好主意，对吧？所以，好主意通常是那些我们不喜欢的技术事实上它们的确是比较好的技术。事实上，在某种意义上，技术是一种集合最好点子的方法，如果你可以向那样思考的话。
en:Nuclear energy, fission, is really bad ideafor bombs.But it may be a pretty good idearelocated into sustainable nuclear energyfor electricity, instead of burning coal.When we have a bad idea, the response to a bad ideais not no ideas, it&#39;s not to stop thinking.The response to a bad idea —like, say, a tungsten light bulb —is a better idea. OK?So, better ideas is really — always the responseto technology that we don&#39;t likeis basically, better technology.And actually, in a certain sense, technologyis a kind of a method for generating better ideas,if you can think about it that way.
时间：13:57
zh-cn:所以，也许对农作物喷洒滴滴涕是一个非常糟糕的主意。但是滴滴涕喷洒到当地家庭，此外，昆虫滴滴涕浸渍蚊帐是最好消除疟疾的方法这的确是一个好主意。技术做得非常好例子。
en:So, maybe spraying DDT on crops is a really bad idea.But DDT sprayed on local homes,there&#39;s nothing better to eliminate malaria,besides insect DDT-impregnated mosquito nets.But that&#39;s a really good idea; that&#39;s a good job for technology.
时间：14:13
zh-cn:所以我们人类的工作是正确的担当好技术的父母给他们找到好朋友，以及合适的工作那么，每一种技术都是创造力只需要找到合适的角色。这实际上是我的儿子，就在这儿。（笑声）没有坏的技术。正如没有坏孩子一样。我们不会说孩子是中性的，或者孩子是阳性的。我们只是要找到他们的合适位置。
en:So, our job as humans is toparent our mind children,to find them good friends,to find them a good job.And so, every technology is sort of a creative forcelooking for the right job.That&#39;s actually my son, right here.(Laughter)There are no bad technologies,just as there are no bad children.We don&#39;t say children are neutral, children are positive.We just have to find them the right place.
时间：14:38
zh-cn:所以，技术带给我们的，从长期以延伸进化演变来看到植物和动物进化，生命的进化，大脑的进化，技术常常带给我们的，是不断变化的差异。技术多样性的增加，选择性面广，不同选择，机会，可能性和自由的的增加。这些就是我们一直得到的技术。这也是为什么人类离开村庄，奔向城市，因为人们经常受到各种选择和可能发生的事情的吸引。我们也要意识到代价。我们会付出一些代价，我们已经意识到这一点，通常我们将为此付出更多的自由，选择和机会的代价。
en:And so, what technology gives us,over the long term, over the sort ofextended evolution — from the beginning of time,through the invention of the plants and animals,and the evolution of life, the evolution of brains —what that is constantly giving usis increasing differences:It&#39;s increasing diversity, it&#39;s increasing options,it&#39;s increasing choices, opportunities,possibilities and freedoms.That&#39;s what we get from technologyall the time. That&#39;s why people leave villagesand go into cities, is because they are alwaysgravitating towards increased choices and possibilities.And we are aware of the price.We pay a price for that, but we are aware of it, and generallywe will pay the price for increased freedoms,choices and opportunities.
时间：15:23
zh-cn:尽管技术想要干净的水。技术和自然是截然相反的吗？因为技术是生命的延伸，它是与生命想要的同样事情平行的并协同一致所以我认为技术热爱生物生命体，如果我们也认同这一点。数十亿年前开始的伟大技术变化，正在我们身边运动，并继续发展。换句话说，在技术上，我们的选择是我们人类随着这种比我们自己强大得多的力量协调一致。
en:Even technology wants clean water.Is technology diametrically opposedto nature?Because technology is an extension of life,it&#39;s in parallel and aligned with the same thingsthat life wants.So that I think technology loves biology,if we allow it to.Great movement that is starting billions of years agois moving through us and it continues to go,and our choice, so to speak,in technology, is really to align ourselveswith this force much greater than ourselves.
时间：15:55
zh-cn:所以，技术不仅仅是在你的口袋里的东西，更多小工具，人们发明的东西，而它实际上是一个很长远故事，一个数十亿年前就开始的伟大故事的一部分，这种自我组织技术正朝我们走来。我们正在扩大并加速技术发展。而且我们可以协调一致发明技术和应用它成为它的一部分非常感激你们今天的关注。谢谢（鼓掌）
en:So, technology is more than just the stuff in your pocket.It&#39;s more than just gadgets; it&#39;s more than just things that people invent.It&#39;s actually part of a very long story,a great story, that began billions of years ago.And it&#39;s moving through us, this self-organization,and we&#39;re extending and accelerating it,and we can be part of it by aligning the technologythat we make with it.I really appreciate your attention today. Thank you.(Applause)
