时间： 0:11
zh-cn:科学。这个词对于你们中的很多人来说，召唤了对于高中生物或是物理课堂的苦闷记忆。但是我向你们保证，你们在那时经历的与科学是大相径庭的。那只是科学“是什么”。那是前人发现的历史记载。我对于成为一名科学家最感兴趣的地方是科学的“为什么”。因为科学的知识是正在探寻中的。我们进行观察，对观察提出一种设想原因，做一种可以通过实验或是其他观察论证的假设。
en:Science.The very word for many of you conjuresunhappy memories of boredomin high school biology or physics class.But let me assure that what you did therehad very little to do with science.That was really the &quot;what&quot; of science.It was the historyof what other people had discovered.What I&#39;m most interested in as a scientistis the &quot;how&quot; of science.Because science is knowledge in process.We make an observation,guess an explanation for that observation,and then make a predictionthat we can testwith an experiment or other observation.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:举些例子。首先，人们注意到了大地在脚下，天空在头顶，太阳和月亮都看似围绕着它们在移动他们提出的设想是地球一定是宇宙的中心。预测即为：一切都是围绕着地球运动的。当伽里略着手于第一台望远镜，望向天空的时候，这件事第一次被真正测试了，他发现的是一颗行星，木星，周围还有四颗卫星环绕着它。之后，他又利用这些卫星去跟踪木星的轨道发现木星也不是围绕地球运动的而是围绕太阳运动的。所以说这个假说测试就失败了。这就导致了地球是宇宙的中心这个理论被推翻。
en:A couple of examples.First of all, people noticedthat the Earth was below, the sky above,and both the Sun and the Moonseemed to go around them.Their guessed explanationwas that the Earth must bethe center of the universe.The prediction: everythingshould circle around the Earth.This was first really testedwhen Galileo got his handson one of the first telescopes,and as he gazed into the night sky,what he found there was a planet, Jupiter,with four moons circling around it.He then used those moonsto follow the path of Jupiterand found that Jupiteralso was not going around the Earthbut around the Sun.So the prediction test failed.And this led tothe discarding of the theorythat the Earth was the centerof the universe.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:另一个例子：艾萨克·牛顿爵士注意到了东西都是向地面坠落的。设想原因是引力，预测是万物都会落向地面。但是当然，并不是所有东西都落向地面的。但是我们就抛弃引力吗？不。我们重新改写理论，说引力将万物拉向地面，除非事物还受到大小相同方向相反的力的作用。这引领我们学到了新的东西。我们开始更多的关注鸟儿和它们的翅膀，想一想从那条思路引出的一系列发现。所以那些测试的失败，意外，异常值给我们传授了未知，引领我们去发现新的东西。科学就是这样不断前行。科学就是这样不断学习。
en:Another example: Sir Isaac Newtonnoticed that things fall to the Earth.The guessed explanation was gravity,the prediction that everythingshould fall to the Earth.But of course, not everythingdoes fall to the Earth.So did we discard gravity?No. We revised the theory and said,gravity pulls things to the Earthunless there is an equaland opposite force in the other direction.This led us to learn something new.We began to pay more attentionto the bird and the bird&#39;s wings,and just think of all the discoveriesthat have flownfrom that line of thinking.So the test failures,the exceptions, the outliersteach us what we don&#39;t knowand lead us to something new.This is how science moves forward.This is how science learns.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:有的时候在媒体当中，甚至更罕见的，有时甚至科学家们会说这个或是那个已经被科学证明了。但是，我希望你们能够明白，科学从不能证明任何东西，永远都不可能。希望科学始终保持那种好奇感让我们去探寻，和那种谦逊感，当我们发现下一个异常值，下一个特例，就像木星的卫星那样的东西的时候，能够让我们去认识，教会我们那些我们并不了解的东西。
en:Sometimes in the media,and even more rarely,but sometimes even scientists will saythat something or otherhas been scientifically proven.But I hope that you understandthat science never proves anythingdefinitively forever.Hopefully science remains curious enoughto look forand humble enough to recognizewhen we have foundthe next outlier,the next exception,which, like Jupiter&#39;s moons,teaches us what we don&#39;t actually know.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:我们要在这里变换一小会儿主题了。墨丘利的节杖，或者说是医药的象征，对于不同的人，有着不同的意义，但是我们的普遍公共医学论述却将它转变为了一个工程问题。我们的国会长廊，还有保险公司的董事会都试图找到支付它们的途径伦理学家和流行病学家试图找到如何更好分配药物的方法，医院和医生们却完全沉迷于他们的协议和清单，试图找到更安全应用药物的方法。这些都是好事。但是，他们也都在一定程度上假定了医学教科书是封闭的。我们就开始以我们能多快速的得到医疗服务来衡量我们的医疗质量。在这种风气下，许多机构为寻求医疗服务，开始大批搜寻润滑油的行为，一点儿也不使我惊讶。
en:We&#39;re going to change gearshere for a second.The caduceus, or the symbol of medicine,means a lot of different thingsto different people,but most of ourpublic discourse on medicinereally turns it intoan engineering problem.We have the hallways of Congress,and the boardrooms of insurance companiesthat try to figure out how to pay for it.The ethicists and epidemiologiststry to figure outhow best to distribute medicine,and the hospitals and physiciansare absolutely obsessedwith their protocols and checklists,trying to figure outhow best to safely apply medicine.These are all good things.However, they also all assumeat some levelthat the textbook of medicine is closed.We start to measurethe quality of our health careby how quickly we can access it.It doesn&#39;t surprise methat in this climate,many of our institutionsfor the provision of health carestart to look a heck of a lotlike Jiffy Lube.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:唯一的问题是，当我从医学院毕业的时候，我并没有得到那个像是你的机械师一插进你的汽车里就能知道车子哪里出问题的小窍门，因为医学课本并非是封闭的。医药是科学。医药是正在进程中的知识。我们先观察现象，然后猜测现象背后的解释，之后我们作出一个能够被测试的假设当下，我们在医药领域大多数的测试场地就是群体。然后也许你还记得在那些无聊的生物课上关于群体倾向于呈现围绕平均值的高斯或是正态分布曲线。因此，在医药领域，在我们用一种可能的原因作出预测之后，我们就在群体中测试它。这就意味着，我们关于医药学习的知识，我们的所有知识，都来自于群体，而只有当达到下一个异常值的时候，下一个特例，就像是木星卫星那样的特例的时候，我们的知识才会扩张，它们教会了我们并不了解的东西。
en:The only problem is thatwhen I graduated from medical school,I didn&#39;t get one of thoselittle doohickeysthat your mechanichas to plug into your carand find out exactly what&#39;s wrong with it,because the textbook of medicineis not closed.Medicine is science.Medicine is knowledge in process.We make an observation,we guess an explanationof that observation,and then we make a predictionthat we can test.Now, the testing groundof most predictions in medicineis populations.And you may rememberfrom those boring days in biology classthat populations tend to distributearound a meanas a Gaussian or a normal curve.Therefore, in medicine,after we make a predictionfrom a guessed explanation,we test it in a population.That means that what we know in medicine,our knowledge and our know-how,comes from populationsbut extends only as faras the next outlier,the next exception,which, like Jupiter&#39;s moons,will teach us what we don&#39;t actually know.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:现在，我是一名外科医生，正在寻找肉瘤病人。肉瘤是一种极其罕见的癌症。是骨与肌肉的癌变。然后我会告诉你，我的每一位病人都是异常值，都是特例。我为这些肉瘤患者做的手术，没有任何一个是对照着，临床实验案例，就是那些我们认识中最适合医药的以群体为基础的实验证据，没有任何一个是被其指导着完成的。人们总说要跳出定式思维，但是在肉瘤病症上，我们没有定式。当我们沐浴在关于肉瘤的，环绕我们的，那些未知，不确定，特例，异常值中的时候，我们所拥有的，是我眼中对于任何一种科学，最重要的两种价值观：谦逊和好奇心。因为如果我是谦逊的，好奇心强的，当病人询问我问题的时候，如果我不知道问题的答案，我就会去询问有着相似的，尽管是不同的肉瘤病人的同事。我们甚至会建立国际间的合作。那些病人也会开始在聊天室和支持团体中互相交流。是通过这种谦逊的，好奇的交流过程，我们开始去尝试并学习新的知识。
en:Now, I am a surgeonwho looks after patients with sarcoma.Sarcoma is a very rare form of cancer.It&#39;s the cancer of flesh and bones.And I would tell you that every oneof my patients is an outlier,is an exception.There is no surgery I have ever performedfor a sarcoma patientthat has ever been guidedby a randomized controlled clinical trial,what we consider the best kindof population-based evidence in medicine.People talk about thinkingoutside the box,but we don&#39;t even have a box in sarcoma.What we do have as we takea bath in the uncertaintyand unknowns and exceptionsand outliers that surround us in sarcomais easy access to what I thinkare those two most important valuesfor any science:humility and curiosity.Because if I am humble and curious,when a patient asks me a question,and I don&#39;t know the answer,I&#39;ll ask a colleaguewho may have a similaralbeit distinct patient with sarcoma.We&#39;ll even establishinternational collaborations.Those patients will startto talk to each other through chat roomsand support groups.It&#39;s through this kindof humbly curious communicationthat we begin to try and learn new things.
时间： 6:30
zh-cn:作为例子，这是我的一位病人他在膝盖附近长了一个肿瘤。正因为那种在国际合作中谦逊的好奇心驱使的沟通,我们学习到了如果必须在移除肿瘤的同时移除膝盖，那么我们可以用踝关节代替膝关节的位置。这样他就可以带着假肢跑，跳，玩耍了。是国际间合作给了他这样的机会。这也是他所希望的，因为他与经历过这些的其他病人联系过了。所以在医药领域的特例与异常值教会了我们那些不了解的东西，同时也引发了我们作出新的思考。
en:As an example, this is a patient of minewho had a cancer near his knee.Because of humbly curious communicationin international collaborations,we have learned that we can repurposethe ankle to serve as the kneewhen we have to remove the kneewith the cancer.He can then wear a prostheticand run and jump and play.This opportunity was available to himbecause of international collaborations.It was desirable to himbecause he had contacted other patientswho had experienced it.And so exceptions and outliers in medicineteach us what we don&#39;t know,but also lead us to new thinking.
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:现在，非常重要的是，所有这些在医药领域关于异常值和特例的新的思考并非只能运用于那些特例的情况中。我们从肉瘤病人身上学习到的，并非仅仅是治疗肉瘤病人的方法。有的时候，这些异常情况，这些特例，也教会了我们一些，对大众同样十分重要的事情。就像是身处树林之外的一棵树，这些外围的，特例般的存在，吸引了我们的注意力，并能够引领我们得到一个，像是“树是什么”，这种更为宏观的认识。我们经常说，树木们失去了森林，但是，我们也会失去森林里的树木。那些独自站立的树，它们同样，甚至以一种更加明确的方式定义了树木的概念，树干，树根与树枝间的联系。即使那颗树是弯曲的，或者甚至它的树干，树根与树枝之间的联系是非同寻常的，它吸引了我们的注意力，让我们作出了观察，然后能够在普试群体中进行测试。
en:Now, very importantly,all the new thinking that outliersand exceptions lead us to in medicinedoes not only applyto the outliers and exceptions.It is not that we only learnfrom sarcoma patientsways to manage sarcoma patients.Sometimes, the outliersand the exceptionsteach us things that matter quite a lotto the general population.Like a tree standing outside a forest,the outliers and the exceptionsdraw our attentionand lead us into a much greater senseof perhaps what a tree is.We often talk aboutlosing the forests for the trees,but one also loses a treewithin a forest.But the tree that stands out by itselfmakes those relationshipsthat define a tree,the relationships between trunkand roots and branches,much more apparent.Even if that tree is crookedor even if that treehas very unusual relationshipsbetween trunk and roots and branches,it nonetheless draws our attentionand allows us to make observationsthat we can then testin the general population.
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:我告诉过你们了，肉瘤是罕见的。它们只在所有癌症中占有1%你也许还知道癌症是一种基因疾病。基因疾病是指癌症是由于原癌基因的触发和抑癌基因的失效所诱发的。你也许会认为我们是从那先常见癌症，像是乳腺癌，前列腺癌，肺癌中，发现原癌基因与抑癌基因的，但是，那样想你就错了。我们是从那些极少数的，1%的肉瘤中第一次的，学习到了原癌基因和抑癌基因的。1966年，佩顿·劳斯获得了诺贝尔奖他发现了鸡群中一种传染性的肉瘤。三十年之后，哈罗德·瓦尔姆斯与麦克·毕晓普发现了那种传染性的因子究竟是什么。那是一种病毒它携带一种基因，那就是肉瘤原癌基因。现在，我不会说肉瘤原癌基因是最重要的原癌基因。我也不会告诉你肉瘤原癌基因是最常见的原癌基因。但是，它是第一个被发现的原癌基因。那个特例，那个异常值，它吸引了我们的注意力，并引领了我们，教会了我们关于整个生物领域重要的东西。
en:I told you that sarcomas are rare.They make up about one percentof all cancers.You also probably know that canceris considered a genetic disease.By genetic disease we meanthat cancer is caused by oncogenesthat are turned on in cancerand tumor suppressor genesthat are turned off to cause cancer.You might thinkthat we learned about oncogenesand tumor suppressor genesfrom common cancerslike breast cancer and prostate cancerand lung cancer,but you&#39;d be wrong.We learned about oncogenesand tumor suppressor genesfor the first timein that itty-bitty little one percentof cancers called sarcoma.In 1966, Peyton Rous got the Nobel Prizefor realizing that chickenshad a transmissible form of sarcoma.Thirty years later, Harold Varmusand Mike Bishop discoveredwhat that transmissible element was.It was a viruscarrying a gene,the src oncogene.Now, I will not tell youthat src is the most important oncogene.I will not tell youthat src is the most frequentlyturned on oncogene in all of cancer.But it was the first oncogene.The exception, the outlierdrew our attention and led us to somethingthat taught us very important thingsabout the rest of biology.
时间： 9:35
zh-cn:当下，肿瘤抑制蛋白p53是最重要的抑癌因子。它是最常见的失效而引发各种肿瘤的抑癌基因。但是我们并不是从一般的癌症当中发现它的。是当李医生和弗劳梅尼医生在关注家庭史过程中，发现有些家庭患肉瘤病人概率远高于其他家庭时我们才发现的p53。我告诉过你们了，肉瘤很罕见。记住，百万分之一的诊断率，如果在同一个家庭中出现两例，那就已经远高于其他家庭了。就是因为它们十分罕见的特性，吸引了我们的注意力，并引发了我们作出新的思考。
en:Now, TP53 is the most importanttumor suppressor gene.It is the most frequently turned offtumor suppressor genein almost every kind of cancer.But we didn&#39;t learn about itfrom common cancers.We learned about itwhen doctors Li and Fraumeniwere looking at families,and they realized that these familieshad way too many sarcomas.I told you that sarcoma is rare.Remember that a onein a million diagnosis,if it happens twice in one family,is way too common in that family.The very fact that these are raredraws our attentionand leads us to new kinds of thinking.
时间：10:16
zh-cn:你们中的很多人可能会说，或者现在正在说，嗯，凯文，这听起来不错，但是你所说的并非是鸟的翅膀，或者是卫星围绕着木星漂行。这是一个人。这种特例，这种异常值，也许会引领我们科学的进步，但是，这是一个人。而我能说的只是，我太了解了。我与这些患有罕见的，致命的疾病的患者交流过。我记录下了我们的对话。这些谈话都是极度令人担忧的。它们充满了那些可怕的短语像是“我有一个坏消息”或是“我们已经尽力了”有的时候，这些对话就带来了一个词：“晚期。”
en:Now, many of you may say,and may rightly say,that yeah, Kevin, that&#39;s great,but you&#39;re not talkingabout a bird&#39;s wing.You&#39;re not talking about moonsfloating around some planet Jupiter.This is a person.This outlier, this exception,may lead to the advancement of science,but this is a person.And all I can sayis that I know that all too well.I have conversations with these patientswith rare and deadly diseases.I write about these conversations.These conversations are terribly fraught.They&#39;re fraught with horrible phraseslike &quot;I have bad news&quot;or &quot;There&#39;s nothing more we can do.&quot;Sometimes these conversationsturn on a single word:&quot;terminal.&quot;
时间：11:03
zh-cn:沉默也是同等的令人难受的。医药中的空白和我们在这些对话中用语的间隙，是同等重要的。什么是未知的？有哪些实验是正在做的？
en:Silence can also be rather uncomfortable.Where the blanks are in medicinecan be just as importantas the words that we usein these conversations.What are the unknowns?What are the experimentsthat are being done?
时间：11:20
zh-cn:和我一起做一个小练习。在屏幕上，你可以看到这个短语，“没有地方“注意一下间歇的地方。如果我们移动一格那个空隙，“没有地方”就变成了“现在在这”正好是相反的意思，仅仅是移动一个空格。
en:Do this little exercise with me.Up there on the screen,you see this phrase, &quot;no where.&quot;Notice where the blank is.If we move that blank one space over&quot;no where&quot;becomes &quot;now here,&quot;the exact opposite meaning,just by shifting the blank one space over.
时间：11:42
zh-cn:我永远不会忘记走进我的一位病人房间的那个夜晚。虽然一整天都在做手术，我还是想要过去看看他。他是个孩子，在几天前被诊断出了骨癌。他和他的妈妈在那天早些时候见了负责他的化疗医生，他被允许进入医院开始化疗。当我进入他的房间的时候，已经是将近午夜了。他睡着了，但是我发现他的妈妈还在他的床边，在灯光下阅读着。她出来和我在走廊里聊了几分钟。结果得知她在阅读的是当天化疗医生给她的一份协议书。她记住了里面的内容。她说，“琼斯医生，你告诉我们，我们并不是总能战胜这种癌症，但是我很仔细的研究了这份协议，我认为我们能做到的。我认为我们可以应对这些非常困难的治疗我要辞掉我的工作。我会搬去和我的父母一起住。我要保护我的孩子。”我没有告诉她。我没有纠正她的想法。她正在相信一份协议书，即使遵守了，也不一定能挽救她的儿子。我没有告诉她。我没有填补那个空隙。但是一年半之后，她的儿子还是死于了癌症。我应该告诉她吗？
en:I&#39;ll never forget the nightthat I walked intoone of my patients&#39; rooms.I had been operating long that daybut I still wanted to come and see him.He was a boy I had diagnosedwith a bone cancer a few days before.He and his mother had been meetingwith the chemotherapy doctorsearlier that day,and he had been admittedto the hospital to begin chemotherapy.It was almost midnightwhen I got to his room.He was asleep, but I found his motherreading by flashlightnext to his bed.She came out in the hallto chat with me for a few minutes.It turned out thatwhat she had been readingwas the protocolthat the chemotherapy doctorshad given her that day.She had memorized it.She said, &quot;Dr. Jones, you told methat we don&#39;t always winwith this type of cancer,but I&#39;ve been studying this protocol,and I think I can do it.I think I can complywith these very difficult treatments.I&#39;m going to quit my job.I&#39;m going to move in with my parents.I&#39;m going to keep my baby safe.&quot;I didn&#39;t tell her.I didn&#39;t stop to correct her thinking.She was trusting in a protocolthat even if complied with,wouldn&#39;t necessarily save her son.I didn&#39;t tell her.I didn&#39;t fill in that blank.But a year and a half laterher boy nonetheless died of his cancer.Should I have told her?
时间：13:16
zh-cn:现在，你们中的很多人可能会说，“那又怎样？”我有没有得肉瘤。我们家也没有人得肉瘤。好吧，这也许是事实，但它可能根本不会出现在我的人生中。”你说的没错。肉瘤也许与你的人生毫无关系。但是那些存在于医药中的空白，是影响你的人生的。
en:Now, many of you may say, &quot;So what?I don&#39;t have sarcoma.No one in my family has sarcoma.And this is all fine and well,but it probably doesn&#39;tmatter in my life.&quot;And you&#39;re probably right.Sarcoma may not mattera whole lot in your life.But where the blanks are in medicinedoes matter in your life.
时间：13:37
zh-cn:我没有告诉你们一个肮脏的小秘密。我告诉了你们，在医药领域，我们在人群中进行测试，但是我没有告诉你们的是，在很多情况中，药物不会告诉你每当一个个体遇见药物，即便是那个个体深信自己隐藏于普试人群当中，个体或是医生都不会知道，实验最后降临在谁的头上。因此，每次服用药物，都是一次实验。你就是那个实验中的被实验者。而实验结果既可能是好的，也可能是不好的。只要药物起作用，我们就能满足于这种快速的服务，自满的，充满自信的谈话。但是当事情进展不顺利，有时我们就希望得到不同。
en:I didn&#39;t tell you one dirty little secret.I told you that in medicine,we test predictions in populations,but I didn&#39;t tell you,and so often medicine never tells youthat every time an individualencounters medicine,even if that individual is firmlyembedded in the general population,neither the individualnor the physician knowswhere in that populationthe individual will land.Therefore, every encounter with medicineis an experiment.You will be a subjectin an experiment.And the outcome will be eithera better or a worse result for you.As long as medicine works well,we&#39;re fine with fast service,bravado, brimminglyconfident conversations.But when things don&#39;t work well,sometimes we want something different.
时间：14:33
zh-cn:我的一个同事从一位病人的身上摘下了一个肿瘤。他很担心这个肿瘤。在我们的研讨会上，他谈论了自己的担忧，这是一种，有着极高的原位复发率的肿瘤。但是他与病患的交流却完全是病患想听到的那种：充满自信。他说：“我已经把它搞定了，你已经可以出院了。”她和她的丈夫为此十分兴奋。他们离开了，庆祝了，美妙的晚餐，还开了一瓶香槟。唯一的问题就在于几周之后，她开始注意到在同一片区域的另一个结节。结果表明他没搞定肿瘤，她也还不能出院。但这个时候发生的事，我却觉得十分有趣。我的同事找到我，并说，“凯文，你愿意帮我照顾这个病人吗？”我说：“为什么，你和我一样，知道该怎么做啊。你没做错任何事情。”他说，“求你了，就帮我照看一下这个病人吧。”他感到脸红—不是为他所做的，而是为他所说的，为他的过度自信。
en:A colleague of mineremoved a tumor from a patient&#39;s limb.He was concerned about this tumor.In our physician conferences,he talked about his concernthat this was a type of tumorthat had a high riskfor coming back in the same limb.But his conversations with the patientwere exactly what a patient might want:brimming with confidence.He said, &quot;I got it alland you&#39;re good to go.&quot;She and her husband were thrilled.They went out, celebrated, fancy dinner,opened a bottle of champagne.The only problem was a few weeks later,she started to noticeanother nodule in the same area.It turned out he hadn&#39;t gotten it all,and she wasn&#39;t good to go.But what happened at this junctureabsolutely fascinates me.My colleague came to me and said,&quot;Kevin, would you mindlooking after this patient for me?&quot;I said, &quot;Why, you know the right thingto do as well as I do.You haven&#39;t done anything wrong.&quot;He said, &quot;Please, just lookafter this patient for me.&quot;He was embarrassed —not by what he had done,but by the conversation that he had had,by the overconfidence.
时间：15:41
zh-cn:所以我又做了一个更加侵入性的手术在之后与病患做了一个截然不同的对话。我说，“最可能的情况是，我已经完全切除了，你应该可以走了，但是这是我们的一个实验。这是你需要继续观察的。这也是我需要继续观察的。然后我们会一起努力，来探寻手术是否成功解决了你的癌症。“我可以向你们保证，在这次谈话后，她和她的丈夫没有再开一瓶香槟庆祝但是，她却变为了一名科学家，而不仅仅是实验中的实验对象。
en:So I performeda much more invasive surgeryand had a very different conversationwith the patient afterwards.I said, &quot;Most likely I&#39;ve gotten it alland you&#39;re most likely good to go,but this is the experimentthat we&#39;re doing.This is what you&#39;re going to watch for.This is what I&#39;m going to watch for.And we&#39;re going to work togetherto find out if this surgery will workto get rid of your cancer.&quot;I can guarantee you, she and her husbanddid not crack another bottle of champagneafter talking to me.But she was now a scientist,not only a subject in her experiment.
时间：16:20
zh-cn:所以，我鼓励你们去在你们的医生那儿，寻找谦逊精神和好奇心。每年大概有200亿次，当一个人走进医生的办公室，然后出来时就变成了一名患者。你和你所爱的人很快也会变成那个患者。你会如何和你的医生们说？你会告诉他们什么？他们会告诉你什么？他们不能告诉你他们也不确定的事，但是他们也可以告诉你他们不知道，只有当你问的时候。所以，请你们加入谈话当中吧。
en:And so I encourage youto seek humility and curiosityin your physicians.Almost 20 billion times each year,a person walks into a doctor&#39;s office,and that person becomes a patient.You or someone you lovewill be that patient sometime very soon.How will you talk to your doctors?What will you tell them?What will they tell you?They cannot tell youwhat they do not know,but they can tell you when they don&#39;t knowif only you&#39;ll ask.So please, join the conversation.
时间：17:07
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:08
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
