时间： 0:11
zh-cn:当我准备演讲的时候，我在反思我的人生并试着想出我的旅程是从何时开始的。很长时间过去了，但我还是不知道自己故事的开头，中间，结尾在哪。我一向以为故事开始于，那个在社区的下午，妈妈告诉我两岁时我就逃过了三次包办婚姻。或一天晚上社区停了八小时电，我们围坐在爸爸周围，听他讲自己小时候争取上学，而身为农民的父亲想让他在田地里和他一起劳作的故事。或我十六岁那年的一个深夜，三个小孩对我耳语道，我的朋友因“有损家庭荣誉”而被杀害。
en:While preparing for my talkI was reflecting on my lifeand trying to figure outwhere exactly was that momentwhen my journey began.A long time passed by,and I simply couldn&#39;t figure outthe beginning or the middleor the end of my story.I always used to think that my beginningwas one afternoon in my communitywhen my mother had told methat I had escaped threearranged marriages by the time I was two.Or one evening when electricity had failedfor eight hours in our community,and my dad sat, surrounded by all of us,telling us stories of when he wasa little kid struggling to go to schoolwhile his father, who was a farmer,wanted him to work in the fields with him.Or that dark night when I was 16when three little kids had come to meand they whispered in my earthat my friend was murderedin something called the honor killings.
时间： 1:07
zh-cn:但我意识到，尽管这些事情是我旅程的一部分，影响了这旅程，但他们都不是起点，而真正的起点是在巴基斯坦，上信德省一座土坯房前,我父亲拉着我十四岁的母亲,他们决定离开这个村子,去一个能够让孩子们上学的镇子的时候。从某种程度来看，我觉得我的人生是他们的明智选择和决定的结果。
en:But then I realized that,as much as I know that these momentshave contributed on my journey,they have influenced my journeybut they have not beenthe beginning of it,but the true beginning of my journeywas in front of a mud housein upper Sindh of Pakistan,where my father held the handof my 14-year-old motherand they decidedto walk out of the villageto go to a town where they couldsend their kids to school.In a way, I feel like my lifeis kind of a result of some wise choicesand decisions they&#39;ve made.
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:与此相同，他们的另外一个决定是让我和兄弟姐妹们保留着传统。以前住在一个我怀念的被称作 Ribabad 的社区，意思是穷人的社区，爸爸保证我们在乡下也能有个房子。我来自俾路支省山区的一个土著部落叫做 Brahui。Brahui 或者 Brohi，意思是住在山上的人，同时也是我的语言。多亏父亲坚持保持传统习俗，我的生活才得以充满歌谣，文化，传统，故事，山脉和羊群。但当时，生活在两个极端间并不容易。一边是传统乡村文化，一边是学校的现代教育。当时我明白我是唯一一个拥有如此自由的女孩，而且我为之愧疚。当我在卡拉奇和海德拉巴上学时，我许多表姐妹和儿时玩伴都嫁人了，一些嫁给了比她们年长的男人，一些则作为交换。一些甚至作为小老婆。当我看到人们伤心地庆祝一个新生的女婴时，当女人们被教导耐心是最大的美德时，我亲眼见到那些美丽的传统和它的魔力在我眼前消逝，
en:And just like that,another of their decisionswas to keep me and my siblingsconnected to our roots.While we were living in a communityI fondly remember as called Ribabad,which means community of the poor,my dad made sure that we alsohad a house in our rural homeland.I come from an indigenous tribein the mountains of Balochistancalled Brahui.Brahui, or Brohi, means mountain dweller,and it is also my language.Thanks to my father&#39;s very strict rulesabout connecting to our customs,I had to live a beautiful life of songs, cultures, traditions, stories, mountains,and a lot of sheep.But then, living in two extremesbetween the traditions of my culture, of my village,and then modern educationin my school wasn&#39;t easy.I was aware that I was the only girlwho got to have such freedom,and I was guilty of it.While going to schoolin Karachi and Hyderabad,a lot of my cousins and childhood friendswere getting married off,some to older men, some in exchange,some even as second wives.I got to see the beautiful traditionand its magic fade in front of mewhen I saw that the birth of a girl childwas celebrated with sadness,when women were toldto have patience as their main virtue.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:直到十六岁时，我用哭泣抚平了悲伤，大多在别人都入眠时，我把自己埋在枕头中哭泣，直到我发现我的朋友被杀害，以维护荣誉之名。
en:Up until I was 16,I healed my sadness by crying,mostly at nights when everyone would sleepand I would sob in my pillow,until that one night when I found out my friend was killedin the name of honor.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:因有损荣誉被杀是一种习俗，当男人和女人在结婚前或婚姻关系外发生关系时，他们会收到惩罚被他们的家人杀死。凶杀者通常是他们的兄弟或父亲或者家族里的叔父。联合国的报道说巴基斯坦每年都有一千个因荣誉而被杀的人，然而这些仅仅是被记录的人数。
en:Honor killings is a customwhere men and womenare suspected of having relationshipsbefore or outside of the marriage,and they&#39;re killed by their family for it.Usually the killer is the brotheror father or the uncle in the family.The U.N. reports there are about 1,000honor murders every year in Pakistan,and these are only the reported cases.
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:我无法接受这样的习俗，我知道我该做一些事情了。我没有哭着入睡了。我想要做一些事情，任何可以阻止这个习俗的事情。我当时16岁，我开始写诗，以及挨家挨户向人们讲诉关于因荣誉而杀人的事情，为什么这样的事情会发生，为什么需要阻止。以及要对这件事情提高惊醒的意识，直到我发现一个更好的方法处理这件事。
en:A custom that killsdid not make any sense to me,and I knew I had to dosomething about it this time.I was not going to cry myself to sleep.I was going to do something,anything, to stop it.I was 16 — I started writing poetryand going door to doortelling everybody about honor killingsand why it happens,why it should be stopped,and raising awareness about ituntil I actually found a much, much better way to handle this issue.
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:在那段时间里，我们住在卡拉奇一个很小只有一个房间的房子里。每年，在雨季，我们的房子都会被雨水或下水道的污水淹没。我的父母只能将家里的水清理出去。在那段时间，我的父亲带回了一台大设备，电脑。电脑看起来很大，几乎要占据我们唯一一间房间的一半。并且有好多零件和电线需要连接。但是拥有电脑依然对我和我的姐妹来说是有史以来最兴奋的事情。我最大的弟弟Ali负责看管这台电脑，我们所有人每天都有10-15分钟可以使用这台电脑。作为8个孩子中最大的，我总是最后一个使用，并且用电脑前我需要洗碗，打扫房子，和妈妈做晚饭，还要将毯子铺在地上让大家睡觉，做完这些事情后，我才可以用电脑，连接网络，才可以拥有10至15分钟纯粹的乐趣和好奇。
en:In those days, we were living ina very small, one-roomed house in Karachi.Every year, during the monsoon seasons,our house would flood up with water —rainwater and sewage —and my mom and dadwould be taking the water out.In those days, my dad brought homea huge machine, a computer.It was so big it looked as if it was goingto take up half of the only room we had,and had so many pieces and wiresthat needed to be connected.But it was still the most exciting thingthat has ever happenedto me and my sisters.My oldest brother Ali got to be in chargeof taking care of the computer,and all of us were given10 to 15 minutes every day to use it.Being the oldest of eight kids,I got to use it the last,and that was afterI had washed the dishes,cleaned the house,made dinner with my mom,and put blankets on the floorfor everyone to sleep,and after that, I would run to the computer,connect it to the Internet,and have pure joy and wonderfor 10 to 15 minutes.
时间： 5:11
zh-cn:最近，我发现了一个叫 Joogle 的网站.[Google](笑）为了实现对这样的习俗采取行动的疯狂心愿 ,我使用谷歌以及探索 Facebook,一个可以将全世界各地的人连在一起的网站,在我小小的、水泥屋顶的位于卡拉奇房间里，我与来自英国、美国、澳大利亚以及加拿大的人相识，并创办了一个叫反对荣誉谋杀的唤醒运动。在几个月内，这个活动引起了巨大的关注，我获得来自世界各地的支持。媒体开始与我联系。很多人主动参与试图和我们一起提高警觉意识。这个活动的影响力从网络渗透到我家乡的街上，为了得到女性的支持，我们一起上街抗议，试图影响巴基斯坦的一些政策。然而我认为一切太美好了，我的团队-在那时候大部分是我的朋友和邻居-认为所有活动都进展得很顺利，我们不知道一个巨大的阻力正朝我们而来。
en:In those days, I had discovereda website called Joogle.[Google] (Laughter)In my frantic wishto do something about this custom,I made use of Googleand discovered Facebook,a website where people can connectto anyone around the world,and so, from my very tiny,cement-roofed room in Karachi,I connected with people in the U.K.,the U.S., Australia and Canada,and created a campaign calledWAKE UP Campaignagainst Honor Killings.It became enormousin just a few months.I got a lot of supportfrom all around the world.Media was connecting to us.A lot of people were reaching outtrying to raise awareness with us.It became so big that it went from onlineto the streets of my hometown,where we would do rallies and strikestrying to change the policies in Pakistan for women&#39;s support.And while I thoughteverything was perfect,my team — which was basicallymy friends and neighbors at that time —thought everything was going so well,we had no idea a big oppositionwas coming to us.
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:我的社区站出来反对我们，说我们正常传播反穆斯林的行为。我们正在这些社区挑战古老的传统习俗。我记得我的父亲收到几封匿名来信信上说，“你的女儿正在光荣的社会里传播西方文化。”有一次我们的车甚至被扔石头。有一天我去到办公室发现我们的金属标志牌被弄坏了，看起来像是很多人拿很重的东西砸的。事情开始变糟，我不得不采取很多方法藏起来。在车里，我得把车窗关上，带上面罩，不能在公共场所讲话，但是最后事情变得更糟糕，我的生命受到了威胁，我不得不离开，回到卡拉奇，我们的行动也停止了。
en:My community stood up against us,saying we were spreadingun-Islamic behavior.We were challenging centuries-oldcustoms in those communities.I remember my father receivinganonymous letterssaying, &quot;Your daughter is spreading Western culturein the honorable societies.&quot;Our car was stoned at one point.One day I went to the officeand found our metal signboardwrinkled and broken as if a lot of peoplehad been hitting it with something heavy.Things got so bad that I hadto hide myself in many ways.I would put up the windows of the car,veil my face, not speakwhile I was in public,but eventually situations got worsewhen my life was threatened,and I had to leave, back to Karachi,and our actions stopped.
时间： 7:08
zh-cn:回到卡拉奇，对于一名18岁的女孩来说，我认为这是我人生中最大的失败。我被打败了。当时还是一名青少年的我，对于发生的这一切，我谴责我自己。当我们开始反省，我们意识到这是我以及我团队的错误。
en:Back in Karachi, as an 18-year-old,I thought this was the biggestfailure of my entire life.I was devastated.As a teenager, I was blamingmyself for everything that happened.And it turns out,when we started reflecting,we did realize that it was actuallyme and my team&#39;s fault.
时间： 7:30
zh-cn:我们的活动之所以有如此大的失败有两个主要原因。第一个原因是，我们触犯了人们的核心价值观。我们向一些对人们很重要的事情说“不”，挑战了他们的荣誉准则，并且在过程中极大的破坏了这些准则。第二，对我来说学到了很重要，很惊讶的一件事就是，我们的团队中并没有那些真正的英雄，那些真正应该为他们自己斗争的英雄。农村里的女人并不知道我们在街上为他们争取权益。每次我回去时，我发现我的表姐妹以及朋友们脸上都带着伤疤，我问她们发生了什么事？她们的答案都是一样的“我们的丈夫打了我们”。但是我们一直在街上为你们抗议！我们正在挑战规则。为什么却对她们的生活没有一点影响？
en:There were two big reasonswhy our campaign had failed big time.One of those, the first reason,is we were standingagainst core values of people.We were saying no to somethingthat was very important to them,challenging their code of honor,and hurting them deeply in the process.And number two, which was veryimportant for me to learn,and amazing, and surprisingfor me to learn,was that we were not includingthe true heroeswho should be fighting for themselves.The women in the villages had no ideawe were fighting for them in the streets.Every time I would go back,I would find my cousins and friendswith scarves on their faces,and I would ask, &quot;What happened?&quot;And they&#39;d be like, &quot;Our husbands beat us.&quot;But we are working in the streets for you!We are changing the policies.How is that not impacting their life?
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:我们发现了这件对我们来说很惊讶的事。一个国家的政策不一定能影响到农村部落的群体。这真的很糟糕，我们真的无法做任何改变吗？我们发现了官方的政策与现实之间存在着巨大的落差。
en:So then we found out somethingwhich was very amazing for us.The policies of a countrydo not necessarily always affectthe tribal and rural communities.It was devastating — like, oh,we can&#39;t actually do something about this?And we found out there&#39;s a huge gapwhen it comes to official policiesand the real truth on the ground.
时间： 8:43
zh-cn:所以这一次，我们要做一些不一样的事情。我们要运用策略，我们要回去并且道歉。是的，道歉。我们回到部落去，我们说我们对于我们所做的事很惭愧。我们在这里道歉，而且事实上，我们在这里是要补偿你们。我们要怎么做呢？我们将弘扬你们主要文化中的三个因素。我们知道那是音乐，语言以及刺绣。
en:So this time, we were like,we are going to do something different.We are going to use strategy,and we are going to go back and apologize.Yes, apologize.We went back to the communitiesand we said we are very ashamed of what we did.We are here to apologize, and in fact,we are here to make it up to you.How do we do that?We are going to promotethree of your main cultures.We know that it&#39;s music,language, and embroidery.
时间： 9:10
zh-cn:没人相信我们。没有人想要和我们一起行动。我们花了很多时间说服他们并与他们讨论，直到他们同意我们通过制作一本记载他们的故事、寓言以及部落的古老传说的小册子来推广他们的语言。而且我们会通过制作一张部落歌曲CD来推广他们的音乐。第三，这是我最喜欢做的事，我们通过在村里建一个中心来推广他们的刺绣文化。妇女们可以每天来这里刺绣。
en:Nobody believed us.Nobody wanted to work with us.It took a lot of convincingand discussions with these communitiesuntil they agreed that we are goingto promote their languageby making a booklet of their stories,fables and old tales in the tribe,and we would promote their musicby making a CD of the songsfrom the tribe, and some drumbeating.And the third, which was my favorite,was we would promote their embroideryby making a center in the villagewhere women would come every dayto make embroidery.
时间： 9:45
zh-cn:就这样开始了。我们与一个村庄合作，我们开始了我们的第一个中心。那天真的很美好。我们启动了这个中心。妇女们来这里做刺绣，并且可以得到改变一生的教育，了解她们所拥有的权利，伊斯兰教文化中赋予她们的权利，以及学习企业发展，如何赚钱，如何让钱生钱，如何与曾经毁灭他们生活的古老文化做斗争，因为在伊斯兰教，实际上，妇女应该与男人并肩。妇女拥有许多我们未曾听闻的地位，她们也未曾听闻，我们必须告诉她们，她们必须要知道她们的权利在哪里，以及如何维护自己的权利，因为只有她们才能帮助自己，我们无法代劳。
en:And so it began.We worked with one village,and we started our first center.It was a beautiful day.We started the center.Women were coming to make embroidery,and going through a life-changingprocess of education,learning about their rights,what Islam says about their rights,and enterprise development,how they can create money,and then how they can createmoney from money,how they can fight the customsthat have been destroying their livesfrom so many centuries,because in Islam, in reality,women are supposed to beshoulder to shoulder with men.Women have so much statusthat we have not been hearing,that they have not been hearing,and we needed to tell themthat they need to knowwhere their rights areand how to take them by themselves,because they can do it and we can&#39;t.
时间：10:33
zh-cn:所以这就是最终形成的模式，非常惊奇。通过刺绣，我们推广了她们的传统。我们来到村庄，调动这个社区。我们建了一个中心，30个妇女过来学习6个月，学习传统刺绣的附加价值，企业发展，生活技巧，以及一些基础教育，还有关于她们的权利，如何对习俗说不，如何做自己和社会的主宰。6个月之后，我们帮她们联系贷款和市场，这样她们就成为当地社区的企业家。
en:So this was the model which actuallycame out — very amazing.Through embroiderywe were promoting their traditions.We went into the village.We would mobilize the community.We would make a center insidewhere 30 women will comefor six months to learn aboutvalue addition of traditional embroidery,enterprise development,life skills and basic education,and about their rightsand how to say no to those customsand how to stand as leadersfor themselves and the society.After six months, we would connectthese women to loans and to marketswhere they can becomelocal entrepreneurs in their communities.
时间：11:07
zh-cn:我们很快称这个项目叫做“Sughar”。Sughar是在巴基斯坦很多语言中使用的方言。意思是熟练自信的妇女。我真的相信，塑造女性领导者，你只要做一件事：就是让她们知道她们拥有领导者的才能。你们看到的这些妇女，她们拥有熟练地技能以及潜能成为领导者。我们要做的就是移除她们身边的障碍，那就是我们决定要做的。
en:We soon called this project Sughar.Sughar is a local word usedin many, many languages in Pakistan.It means skilled and confident women.I truly believe, to create women leaders,there&#39;s only one thing you have to do:Just let them know that they havewhat it takes to be a leader.These women you see here,they have strong skillsand potential to be leaders.All we had to do was removethe barriers that surrounded them,and that&#39;s what we decided to do.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:但是当我们认为一切顺利地时候，再一次一切太顺利了，我们发现了下一个困境：许多男人看到了他们妻子的巨大变化。她更多地发言了，她做决策—噢，天啊，她处理屋子里的一切。他们阻止她们来学习中心，这一次，我们还好。开始实行方法二。我们去巴基斯坦的时尚业，开始做调研，研究那里的变化。结果是巴基斯坦的时尚业非常强劲，逐日增长，但是却很少出现部落文化元素，也没有为部落尤其是女性的时尚设计。
en:But then while we were thinkingeverything was going well,once again everything was fantastic,we found our next setback:A lot of men started seeingthe visible changes in their wife.She&#39;s speaking more,she&#39;s making decisions —oh my gosh, she&#39;s handling everything in the house.They stopped themfrom coming to the centers,and this time, we were like,okay, time for strategy two.We went to the fashion industry in Pakistanand decided to do researchabout what happens there.Turns out the fashion industry in Pakistanis very strong and growing day by day,but there is less contributionfrom the tribal areasand to the tribal areas, especially women.
时间：12:21
zh-cn:所以为我们决定发行我们的第一个部落女性时尚品牌，现在叫“Nomads&quot;.妇女们开始赚更多钱，从经济上为家庭贡献更多，男人们开始犹豫要不要阻止她们来学习中心了。
en:So we decided to launch our first evertribal women&#39;s very own fashion brand,which is now called Nomads.And so women started earning more,they started contributing morefinancially to the house,and men had to think againbefore saying no to themwhen they were coming to the centers.
时间：12:42
zh-cn:（掌声）谢谢，谢谢。
en:(Applause)Thank you, thank you.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:2013年，我们成立第一个Sughar中心取代原来的学习中心。我们跟 TripAdvisor 合作，在村子中间建造了一个水泥的大厅，邀请许多其他组织在那里办公。我们创建这个公益平台，方便他们能够接触并解决其他Sughar 没有关注的议题，这是一个方便他们做培训的场合，既可做农民学校，也可做集市，以及做其他他们想要用作的场地。他们做的太棒了。目前，我们已经可以扶持巴基斯坦24个村庄的900位妇女。（掌声）
en:In 2013, we launched our firstSughar Hub instead of a center.We partnered with TripAdvisorand created a cement hallin the middle of a villageand invited so many other organizationsto work over there.We created this platformfor the nonprofitsso they can touch and workon the other issuesthat Sughar is not working on,which would be an easy place for them to give trainings,use it as a farmer school,even as a marketplace,and anything they want to use it for,and they have been doing really amazingly.And so far, we have been ableto support 900 womenin 24 villages around Pakistan.(Applause)
时间：13:32
zh-cn:但是这实际上并不是我想要的。我的梦想是在未来十年帮助一百万妇女，确保可以实现这个梦想，今年我们在美国成立了Sughar基金。不仅仅资助Sughar，也资助巴基斯坦的许多其他组织，来复制这个梦想，甚至找寻更有新意的方法来释放巴基斯坦农村妇女的潜能。
en:But that&#39;s actually not what I want.My dream is to reach outto one million women in the next 10 years,and to make sure that happens,this year we launchedSughar Foundation in the U.S.It is not just going to fund Sugharbut many other organizations in Pakistanto replicate the ideaand to find even more innovative waysto unleash the rural women&#39;spotential in Pakistan.
时间：14:00
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you so much.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:（掌声）谢谢，谢谢，谢谢。
en:(Applause)Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
时间：14:10
zh-cn:Chris Anderson: Khalida，你简直有如神助。我是说，这个故事里，某种程度上，似乎是不可置信的。一个如此年轻的人通过如此多的力量和聪明才智，取得如此大的成就，太难以置信了。我问一个问题：帮助一百万妇女这个惊人的梦想—-目前的成功有多少是取决于你的，取决于你的人格魅力？怎样衡量？
en:Chris Anderson: Khalida, you arequite the force of nature.I mean, this story, in many ways,just seems beyond belief.It&#39;s incredible that someoneso young could do achieve this muchthrough so much force and ingenuity.So I guess one question:This is a spectacular dream to reach outand empower a million women —how much of the current success depends on you,the force of this magnetic personality?How does it scale?
时间：14:41
zh-cn:Khalida Brohi: 我认为我的工作是启发他人，分享我的夢想，我不会教別人如何做，因为有许多不同的方法。我们仅仅实践了三种方法。还有100种其他的方法去释放女性的潜能。我仅仅啓發她們，这是我的工作。我将坚持做下去。Sughar还在壮大。我们正在计划再帮助2个村庄，很快我相信我们将走出巴基斯坦，帮助南亚以及其他地方。
en:Khalida Brohi: I think my jobis to give the inspiration out,give my dream out.I can&#39;t teach how to do it, becausethere are so many different ways.We have been experimentingwith three ways only.There are a hundred different waysto unleash potential in women.I would just give the inspirationand that&#39;s my job.I will keep doing it.Sughar will still be growing.We are planning to reach outto two more villages,and soon I believe we will be scaling out of Pakistaninto South Asia and beyond.
时间：15:11
zh-cn:CA:我对你在演讲中提到的团队很感兴趣，你那时才18岁。你的团队是怎样的？是学校同学，对吗？
en:CA: I love that when you talkedabout your team in the talk,I mean, you were all 18 at the time.What did this team look like?This was school friends, right?
时间：15:20
zh-cn:KB: 这里的人会相信在我的村庄里我是做奶奶的年龄了？我妈9岁结婚，我是最老的未婚女了，在我的村庄里我等于什么也没做。
en:KB: Do people herebelieve that I&#39;m at an agewhere I&#39;m supposedto be a grandmother in my village?My mom was married at nine,and I am the oldest woman not marriedand not doing anythingin my life in my village.
时间：15:37
zh-cn:CA: 等等，啥也没做？
en:CA: Wait, wait, wait, not doing anything?
时间：15:41
zh-cn:KB:不是。CA:你是对的。
en:KB: No.CA: You&#39;re right.
时间：15:43
zh-cn:KB: 人们许多次为我感到遗憾。
en:KB: People feel sorry for me,a lot of times.
时间：15:46
zh-cn:CA: 你现在还经常回到俾路支省吗？KB:我住在那里。我们仍住在卡拉奇和俾路支省之间。我的兄弟姐妹都在上学。我还是8兄妹中的大姐。
en:CA: But how much time are you spendingnow actually back in Balochistan?KB: I live over there.We live between, still,Karachi and Balochistan.My siblings are all going to school.I am still the oldest of eight siblings.
时间：16:00
zh-cn:CA：但是你所做的确实威胁到了那里的一些人。你怎样确保安全？你感到安全吗？那里有纠纷吗？
en:CA: But what you&#39;re doing is definitelythreatening to some people there.How do you handle safety?Do you feel safe?Are there issues there?
时间：16:11
zh-cn:KB: 这个问题以前困扰我很多次，我感到“害怕”这个词闪现，然后消失，但是有一种害怕不同于这个。这种害怕就是如果我被杀害了，爱我的那些人们会怎样？我妈等我回家直到深夜。我的妹妹们想要跟我学习，我的社区里有许多女孩想要和我交谈，问我不同的事情，还有我最近订婚了。（笑声）（掌声）
en:KB: This question has come to mea lot of times before,and I feel like the word &quot;fear&quot;just comes to me and then drops,but there is one fear that I havethat is different from that.The fear is that if I get killed,what would happen to the peoplewho love me so much?My mom waits for me till late at nightthat I should come home.My sisters want to learn so much from me,and there are many, many girlsin my community who want to talk to meand ask me different things,and I recently got engaged. (Laughs)(Applause)
时间：16:48
zh-cn:CA: 他在现场吗？你应当站起来。（掌声）
en:CA: Is he here? You&#39;ve got to stand up.(Applause)
时间：16:59
zh-cn:KB: 逃离了包办婚姻，我穿越世界，在L.A., 一个完全不同的世界，选择了自己的丈夫。我斗争了整整一年。那是另一个不同的故事。但我认为那是我 唯一害怕的事，我不想我妈夜里等不到我。
en:KB: Escaping arranged marriages,I chose my own husbandacross the world in L.A.,a really different world.I had to fight for a whole year.That&#39;s totally a different story.But I think that&#39;sthe only thing that I&#39;m afraid of,and I don&#39;t want my mom to not see anyonewhen she waits in the night.
时间：17:20
zh-cn:CA: 所以那些想要帮助你的人，可以继续帮你，或许他们可以买你带过来的那些衣服，那些刺绣是在俾路支省做的吗？
en:CA: So people who wantto help you on their way,they can go on, they can maybebuy some of these clothesthat you&#39;re bringing overthat are actually made, the embroideryis done back in Balochistan?
时间：17:32
zh-cn:KB:是的。
en:KB: Yeah.
时间：17:33
zh-cn:CA: 或者他们可以参与这个基金会。
en:CA: Or they can get involvedin the foundation.
时间：17:35
zh-cn:KB:是的。我们正在找寻尽量多的人，因为目前基金会正处于初始阶段，我正在学习如何运作，如何获取经费，以及如何帮助更多组织，尤其是电子商务，对我来说还很陌生。相信我，我并不是一个时髦的人。
en:KB: Definitely. We are lookingfor as many people as we can,because now that the foundation&#39;sin the beginning process,I am trying to learn a lotabout how to operate,how to get fundingor reach out to more organizations,and especially in the e-commerce,which is very new for me.I mean, I am nota fashion person, believe me.
时间：17:54
zh-cn:CA: 好的，邀请你来太难得了。请继续勇敢前行，继续聪明警醒，同时注意安全。
en:CA: Well, it&#39;s been incredibleto have you here.Please go on being courageous,go on being smart, and please stay safe.
时间：18:02
zh-cn:KB: 非常感谢。CA: 谢谢，Khalida.（掌声）
en:KB: Thank you so much.CA: Thank you, Khalida. (Applause)
