时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想要尝试一些新的事情。能够参与的人请站起来一下。接下来我要列出一些名字。当你听到一个从没听过的名字，关于这个名字你什么也不知道，你就可以先坐下了。一直坐着最后站着的人，我们会看看他们知道什么，好吗？
en:I&#39;d like to try something new.Those of you who are able,please stand up.OK, so I&#39;m going to name some names.When you hear a namethat you don&#39;t recognize,you can&#39;t tell me anything about them,I&#39;d like you to take a seatand stay seated.The last person standing,we&#39;re going to see what they know. OK?
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:好的。埃里克·加纳。马克·布朗。泰米尔·莱斯。弗雷迪·格雷。
en:All right.Eric Garner.Mike Brown.Tamir Rice.Freddie Gray.
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:所以现在还站着的人们，请你们看一下周围。差不多过半数的人还都站着。所以我们继续。
en:So those of you who are still standing,I&#39;d like you to turn aroundand take a look.I&#39;d say half to most of the peopleare still standing.So let&#39;s continue.
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:米歇尔·柯索。特妮莎·安德森。奥拉·罗瑟。梅根·浩柯蒂。
en:Michelle Cusseaux.Tanisha Anderson.Aura Rosser.Meagan Hockaday.
时间： 1:29
zh-cn:如果现在再看看周围，差不多还有四个人站着，其实我并不打算赶鸭子上架。当时说那话是为了鼓励公平透明，你们现在可以坐下了。
en:So if we look around again,there are about four peoplestill standing,and actually I&#39;m not goingto put you on the spot.I just say that to encourage transparency,so you can be seated.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:所以那些认出第一组名字的人知道这些是在过去的两年半中被警察杀掉的非裔美国人。但你们可能不知道的是，另外一份名单也是在过去的两年内被警察杀掉的非裔美国人。这两组名单中唯一的不同之处在于：性别。
en:So those of you who recognizedthe first group of names knowthat these were African-Americanswho have been killed by the policeover the last two and a half years.What you may not knowis that the other listis also African-Americanswho have been killedwithin the last two years.Only one thing distinguishesthe names that you knowfrom the names that you don&#39;t know:gender.
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:首先我想告诉大家你们并不存在什么特殊的地方可以用来解释我们刚才看到的认知模式。这个实验我在全国范围内做过好多次。我在女权组织中做过这个实验，我在民权组织中做过这个实验。我对教授、学生、心理学家、社会学家都做过这个实验。我甚至还对国会进步分子做过这个实验。不管在哪里，黑人女性受到警察暴力的事件都少有人关注。
en:So let me first let you knowthat there&#39;s nothing at all distinctabout this audiencethat explains the pattern of recognitionthat we&#39;ve just seen.I&#39;ve done this exercisedozens of times around the country.I&#39;ve done it to women&#39;srights organizations.I&#39;ve done it with civil rights groups.I&#39;ve done it with professors.I&#39;ve done it with students.I&#39;ve done it with psychologists.I&#39;ve done it with sociologists.I&#39;ve done it even withprogressive members of Congress.And everywhere, the awarenessof the level of police violencethat black women experienceis exceedingly low.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:这个情况是有些出人意料的，因为这里涉及到两个问题。一是非裔美国人受到的警察暴力，而是女性受到的暴力。这是两个我们最近经常提到的问题。但是如果当我们去想这些问题的牵连者，这些问题的受害者的时候，这些黑人女性的名字就想不起来了。
en:Now, it is surprising, isn&#39;t it,that this would be the case.I mean, there are two issuesinvolved here.There&#39;s police violenceagainst African-Americans,and there&#39;s violence against women,two issues that have beentalked about a lot lately.But when we think aboutwho is implicated by these problems,when we think aboutwho is victimized by these problems,the names of these black womennever come to mind.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:交流专家告诉我们，当事实与已有框架不符时，人们很难用已有的思考方式去思考新给出的事实。在我们脑中，这些女性的名字被一带而过，因为我们的思维框架不容许我们看到或者是记住它们。因此，记者不会做头条报道，当权者不予考虑，政治家不被鼓励或者要求去谈及她们。
en:Now, communications experts tell usthat when facts do not fitwith the available frames,people have a difficult timeincorporating new factsinto their way of thinkingabout a problem.These women&#39;s nameshave slipped through our consciousnessbecause there are no framesfor us to see them,no frames for us to remember them,no frames for us to hold them.As a consequence,reporters don&#39;t lead with them,policymakers don&#39;t think about them,and politicians aren&#39;t encouragedor demanded that they speak to them.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:你可能会问，思维框架能有什么作用呢？毕竟，涉及到黑人和女性的问题不就包括女性黑人或黑人女性吗？简单来说，这就是社会公平的涓滴效应,而且很多时候根本不起作用。没有一个思维框架能让我们看到社会问题是怎样影响到整个目标人群的，我们根本就不会为这些问题所动，更不用说忍受精神上的孤立了。但是事情不一定非要这样。
en:Now, you might ask,why does a frame matter?I mean, after all,an issue that affects black peopleand an issue that affects women,wouldn&#39;t that necessarily includeblack people who are womenand women who are black people?Well, the simple answer is that this isa trickle-down approach to social justice,and many times it just doesn&#39;t work.Without frames that allow us to seehow social problems impactall the members of a targeted group,many will fall through the cracksof our movements,left to suffer in virtual isolation.But it doesn&#39;t have to be this way.
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:很多年前，我开始用”交叉性“这个词来描述在很多社会公正问题中，像种族主义和性别主义经常是重叠的这样一个现象，它带来多方面的社会不公。
en:Many years ago, I began to usethe term &quot;intersectionality&quot;to deal with the factthat many of our social justice problemslike racism and sexismare often overlapping,creating multiple levelsof social injustice.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:而引起了我对这种交叉性的注意的，是与一个名为艾玛·德格芬雷的女性的偶遇艾玛·德格芬雷是一名非裔美国女性、一位工作的妻子兼母亲。我实际上是从一个法律观点的界面上读到艾玛的故事，而写这个的法官驳回了她对当地一家汽车生产公司种族和性别歧视的上诉请求。艾玛，像其他众多非裔美国女性一样，期望为家庭和他人争取更好的就业机会她想为孩子和家庭带来更好的生活。她应聘了一份工作，但是并没有被雇佣，而她认为原因就在于她是一名黑人女性。
en:Now, the experiencethat gave rise to intersectionalitywas my chance encounterwith a woman named Emma DeGraffenreid.Emma DeGraffenreidwas an African-American woman,a working wife and a mother.I actually read about Emma&#39;s storyfrom the pages of a legal opinionwritten by a judgewho had dismissed Emma&#39;s claimof race and gender discriminationagainst a local car manufacturing plant.Emma, like so many African-American women,sought better employmentfor her family and for others.She wanted to create a better lifefor her children and for her family.But she applied for a job,and she was not hired,and she believed that she was not hiredbecause she was a black woman.
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:而这个问题中的法官驳回了她的申诉，理由是这家生产公司的老板雇佣了非裔美国人，也雇佣了女性。其中的关键，虽然法官并不愿意承认，也是艾玛真正想说的是那些受雇的非裔美国人，通常在工业职位和维护职位，都是男性。而受雇的女性通常在秘书或前台之类的职位都是白人。如果法官能够看到这些政策的结合他就能注意到艾玛·德格芬雷受到的双重歧视。但是法官不许艾玛把这两个原因联系到一起去讲述她的故事因为他坚信如果允许艾玛这样做，她就能够享受优惠待遇。她就比单讲非裔美国男性和白人女性多了一倍胜算。当然，非裔美国人和白人女性也并不需要结合种族和性别来讨论他们受到的歧视。为什么真正不公平的法律拒绝保护非裔美国女性不是仅仅因为她们的经历与白人女性和非裔美国男性的不完全相同？与其将框架拓宽到把非裔美国女性包含进来。法院选择对她们的案子置之不理
en:Now, the judge in questiondismissed Emma&#39;s suit,and the argumentfor dismissing the suit wasthat the employerdid hire African-Americansand the employer hired women.The real problem, though, that the judgewas not willing to acknowledgewas what Emma was actually trying to say,that the African-Americansthat were hired,usually for industrial jobs,maintenance jobs, were all men.And the women that were hired,usually for secretarialor front-office work,were all white.Only if the court was able to seehow these policies came togetherwould he be able to seethe double discriminationthat Emma DeGraffenreid was facing.But the court refused to allow Emmato put two causes of action togetherto tell her storybecause he believed that,by allowing her to do that,she would be ableto have preferential treatment.She would have an advantageby having two swings at the bat,when African-American men and white womenonly had one swing at the bat.But of course, neitherAfrican-American men or white womenneeded to combine a raceand gender discrimination claimto tell the story of the discriminationthey were experiencing.Why wasn&#39;t the real unfairnesslaw&#39;s refusal to protectAfrican-American womensimply because their experiencesweren&#39;t exactly the sameas white women and African-American men?Rather than broadening the frameto include African-American women,the court simply tossed their casecompletely out of court.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:作为反歧视法的学习者，作为女权主义者，作为反歧视者，我被这个案子震惊到了。给我的感觉就像社会不公正大获全胜。首先，黑人女性不允许在这个公司工作；其次，法庭让这件事情变得微不足道对它进行了双重否定；最后，这个问题不了了之。我们都知道，有实无名的问题根本就不会被人们注意到；如果人们都没有注意到，一般也解决不了。
en:Now, as a studentof antidiscrimination law,as a feminist,as an antiracist,I was struck by this case.It felt to me like injustice squared.So first of all,black women weren&#39;t allowedto work at the plant.Second of all, the courtdoubled down on this exclusionby making it legally inconsequential.And to boot, there wasno name for this problem.And we all know that,where there&#39;s no name for a problem,you can&#39;t see a problem,and when you can&#39;t see a problem,you pretty much can&#39;t solve it.
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:多年之后，我意识到艾玛遇到的问题其实是因为我们思维受限。审判人员们审视性别或者种族歧视时用到的框架是不全面并且歪曲的。对我来说，我面临的挑战是能不能找到另一种描述方法。通过这种方法，我们可以体会到她面临的困境，将她从灰色地带中解救出来，让法官能够看到她的故事。
en:Many years later, I had come to recognizethat the problem that Emma was facingwas a framing problem.The frame that the court was usingto see gender discriminationor to see race discriminationwas partial, and it was distorting.For me, the challenge that I faced wastrying to figure out whetherthere was an alternative narrative,a prism that would allow usto see Emma&#39;s dilemma,a prism that would allow usto rescue her from the cracks in the law,that would allow judges to see her story.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:我突然想到，或许将这个问题简单比喻成十字路口可以让法官们更好地了解艾玛的困境。照这样想，组成十字路口的两条路就好比劳动力中性别和种族这两种组成。在路上行驶的车辆就会是现行的招聘政策和各种条例。因为艾玛同时是黑人和女性，她恰好处于两条路交界的地方，因此经历工作场合中性别和种族的双重影响。法律就好像是救护车，随时准备对艾玛进行治疗，但它只会在艾玛在种族或者性别任一条路上受伤时才出现，而并不会在交叉的地方出现。
en:So it occurred to me,maybe a simple analogy to an intersectionmight allow judgesto better see Emma&#39;s dilemma.So if we think about this intersection,the roads to the intersection would bethe way that the workforcewas structured by race and by gender.And then the traffic in those roadswould be the hiring policiesand the other practicesthat ran through those roads.Now, because Emmawas both black and female,she was positioned preciselywhere those roads overlapped,experiencing the simultaneous impactof the company&#39;s gender and race traffic.The law — the law islike that ambulance that shows upand is ready to treat Emmaonly if it can be shownthat she was harmedon the race road or on the gender roadbut not where those roads intersected.
时间：10:42
zh-cn:所以你怎么去称谓这种受到多重来源的影响接下来又全部放弃以求自保？交叉性似乎能够满足我对它的定义。
en:So what do you callbeing impacted by multiple forcesand then abandoned to fend for yourself?Intersectionality seemed to do it for me.
时间：10:57
zh-cn:我会继续去了解非裔美国女性，就像其他有色人种的女性一样，就像全世界其他处在社会边缘的人一样，他们都在面对各种各样的困境和挑战。这些困境和挑战都是由交叉性带来的，比如种族和性别的交叉，由异性恋主义、变性恐惧、仇外心理、体能歧视带来的交叉，所有这些社会动向聚集到一起就会带来有时候十分特别的挑战。但同样的道理，这种交叉性也使得我们注意到黑人女性生活的方式，向我们展示了非裔美国女性死去时的惨境。
en:I would go on to learnthat African-American women,like other women of color,like other socially marginalized peopleall over the world,were facing all kindsof dilemmas and challengesas a consequence of intersectionality,intersections of race and gender,of heterosexism, transphobia,xenophobia, ableism,all of these social dynamics come togetherand create challengesthat are sometimes quite unique.But in the same waythat intersectionalityraised our awareness to the waythat black women live their lives,it also exposes the tragic circumstancesunder which African-American women die.
时间：11:53
zh-cn:针对非裔美国女性的警察暴力事件并不少见。黑人女性受到的暴力程度之深，以至于一些人在遇到警察之后就没能存活下来。下至七岁的黑人幼女，上至过九旬的黑人老妪，都有被警察杀害的案例。她们在自家客厅、卧室、汽车中、街道上、父母面前、甚至时孩子面前遇害。有的是被击毙；有的被踩死；有的被扼死；有的被虐待致死；有的被用泰瑟枪打死。她们在乞求帮助时被杀害；在独身一人时被杀害；在人群中间时被杀害。因为是黑人，她们在购物时被杀害，在开车时被杀害，在出现精神问题的时候被杀害，在出现家庭争执时被杀害，甚至是在无家可归时被杀害。她们在讲电话时与朋友笑闹时坐在报失的车辆上时在白宫前为有婴孩在后座的汽车调头时都会被杀害为什么我们从来没有听到过这种故事呢？为什么她们失去的生命并没有造成与她们倒下的兄弟同等的媒体关注和集体抗议呢？是时候做出改变了
en:Police violence against black womenis very real.The level of violencethat black women faceis such that it&#39;s not surprisingthat some of them do not survivetheir encounters with police.Black girls as young as seven,great grandmothers as old as 95have been killed by the police.They&#39;ve been killed in their living rooms,in their bedrooms.They&#39;ve been killed in their cars.They&#39;ve been killed on the street.They&#39;ve been killedin front of their parentsand they&#39;ve been killedin front of their children.They have been shot to death.They have been stomped to death.They have been suffocated to death.They have been manhandled to death.They have been tasered to death.They&#39;ve been killedwhen they&#39;ve called for help.They&#39;ve been killed when they were alone,and they&#39;ve been killedwhen they were with others.They&#39;ve been killed shopping while black,driving while black,having a mental disability while black,having a domestic disturbance while black.They&#39;ve even been killedbeing homeless while black.They&#39;ve been killedtalking on the cell phone,laughing with friends,sitting in a car reported as stolenand making a U-turnin front of the White Housewith an infant strappedin the backseat of the car.Why don&#39;t we know these stories?Why is it that their lost livesdon&#39;t generate the same amountof media attention and communal outcryas the lost livesof their fallen brothers?It&#39;s time for a change.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:我们能做些什么呢？2014年，非裔美国人政策论坛开始要求我们&quot;说出她的名字“，无论是在集会上，在抗议中在会议中在任何场合还是其他陈述针对黑人群体的暴力行为的议题中。然而仅仅说出她的名字是远远不够的，我们要做的还有很多。我们要能够接受眼前的现实，接受那些经常是十分痛苦的现实，那些我们不愿面对的现实，那些黑人女性每天都会面对的暴力和羞辱针对黑人女性肤色，年龄，性别表达性取向和能力等等
en:So what can we do?In 2014, the African-AmericanPolicy Forum began to demandthat we &quot;say her name&quot;at rallies, at protests,at conferences, at meetings,anywhere and everywherethat state violence against black bodiesis being discussed.But saying her name is not enough.We have to be willing to do more.We have to be willing to bear witness,to bear witnessto the often painful realitiesthat we would just rather not confront,the everyday violence and humiliationthat many black women have had to face,black women across color,age, gender expression,sexuality and ability.
时间：15:00
zh-cn:所以我们现在有个机会来铭记我接下来将会与大家分享的一些图片去见证这种暴力这对于一些人来说可能会很有触动性我们将会听到传奇的艾比·道布森的声音当我们与这些女性坐在一起的时候有一些经历过暴力有一些没能从中活过来我们有一个机会来扭转这次讲话刚开始时我们因为不知道她们的名字而没能为这些女性而站立的局面
en:So we have the opportunity right now —bearing in mind that some of the imagesthat I&#39;m about to share with youmay be triggering for some —to collectively bear witnessto some of this violence.We&#39;re going to hear the voiceof the phenomenal Abby Dobson.And as we sit with these women,some who have experienced violenceand some who have not survived them,we have an opportunityto reverse what happenedat the beginning of this talk,when we could not stand for these womenbecause we did not know their names.
时间：15:44
zh-cn:所以在这次剪辑的结尾将会有一个点名一些黑人女性的名字会被点出来我希望能加入我们的人，在说出这些名字的时候声音越大越好随机喊，没有顺序让我们喊出一群嘈杂的声音来代表我们的意愿去拥抱这些女性与她们坐在一起见证她们的遭遇把她们带向光明
en:So at the end of this clip,there&#39;s going to be a roll call.Several black women&#39;s names will come up.I&#39;d like those of you who are ableto join us in saying these namesas loud as you can,randomly, disorderly.Let&#39;s create a cacophony of soundto represent our intentionto hold these women up,to sit with them,to bear witness to them,to bring them into the light.
时间：16:27
zh-cn:（唱）艾比·道布森：说出来说出她的名字
en:(Singing) Abby Dobson: Say,say her name.
时间：16:41
zh-cn:说出来说出她的名字
en:Say,say her name.
时间：16:53
zh-cn:（观众）：雪莉！
en:(Audience) Shelly!
时间：16:55
zh-cn:（观众）：凯拉！
en:(Audience) Kayla!
时间：16:56
zh-cn:艾比·道布森: 噢说出她的名字
en:AD: Oh,say her name.
时间：17:10
zh-cn:（观众呼喊着名字）
en:(Audience shouting names)
时间：17:13
zh-cn:说出来，说出来说出她的名字
en:Say, say,say her name.
时间：17:28
zh-cn:说出她的名字
en:Say her name.
时间：17:33
zh-cn:因为所有这些名字我将永远不会知道
en:For all the namesI&#39;ll never know,
时间：17:43
zh-cn:说出她的名字
en:say her name.
时间：17:46
zh-cn:金伯莉·克伦肖: 艾亚娜·斯坦利·琼斯,查妮莎·丰维尔,凯瑟琳·约翰斯顿，凯拉·穆尔，米歇尔·卡索，瑞卡·博伊德，雪莉·弗雷, 塔里卡, 伊维特·史密斯 .
en:KC: Aiyanna Stanley Jones,Janisha Fonville,Kathryn Johnston, Kayla Moore,Michelle Cusseaux, Rekia Boyd,Shelly Frey, Tarika, Yvette Smith.
时间：17:59
zh-cn:艾比·道布森: 说出她的名字
en:AD: Say her name.
时间：18:10
zh-cn:金伯莉·克伦肖：所以我在开始时说过如果我们看不到一个问题我们就无法解决它我们一起来见证这些女性丧失的生命但是现在是时间从哀恸和悲伤中走向行动和转变这是我们可以做到的是由我们自己决定的
en:KC: So I said at the beginning,if we can&#39;t see a problem,we can&#39;t fix a problem.Together, we&#39;ve come togetherto bear witnessto these women&#39;s lost lives.But the time now is to movefrom mourning and griefto action and transformation.This is something that we can do.It&#39;s up to us.
时间：18:41
zh-cn:谢谢大家加入我们谢谢大家
en:Thank you for joining us.Thank you.
时间：18:45
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
