时间： 0:11
zh-cn:你曾经做过的最难的工作是什么？是曾在大太阳底下工作？是给家庭或者整个社区提供餐饮？是要昼夜不分地保护生命和财产？是你曾独自一人工作？还是你在一个前途未卜的项目中，但却可以改善人类健康或者救死扶伤？这份工作是不是去建造，去创新，打造一个艺术作品？这份工作是不是让你觉得不确定自己是否会被人们所理解和感激？那些在我们社会里，正做着上述工作的人们，理应受到我们的关注，关爱和切实的支持。
en:What was the mostdifficult job you ever did?Was it working in the sun?Was it working to provide foodfor a family or a community?Was it working days and nightstrying to protect lives and property?Was it working aloneor working on a projectthat wasn&#39;t guaranteed to succeed,but that might improvehuman health or save a life?Was it working to build something,create something, make a work of art?Was it work for which you were never sureyou were fully understood or appreciated?The people in our communitieswho do these jobsdeserve our attention, our loveand our deepest support.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:但是人类并不是我们社会里唯一从事困难工作的群体。还有很多其他工作是植物，动物和地球上生态系统在做的。这之中的生态系统就包括了我所研究的：热带珊瑚礁。珊瑚礁是辛勤的农民。它们提供食物，收入和食物安全性给全世界数亿的人们。珊瑚礁是安全卫士。它们打造的结构保护了我们的海岸线不受风暴潮和海浪的侵袭，而且这种生态系统能过滤海水，让我们能安全地在水里工作和玩耍。珊瑚礁是药剂师。珊瑚礁上发现的分子对研究新的抗生素和癌症治疗药物非常重要。珊瑚礁还是艺术家。它们创造的这种结构是地球上最漂亮的景致之一。这种美丽是旅游业的基础，特别是对于很多没有其他自然资源的国家来说。
en:But people aren&#39;t the only onesin our communitieswho do these difficult jobs.These jobs are also doneby the plants, the animalsand the ecosystems on our planet,including the ecosystems I study:the tropical coral reefs.Coral reefs are farmers.They provide food, incomeand food securityfor hundreds of millionsof people around the world.Coral reefs are security guards.The structures that they buildprotect our shorelinesfrom storm surge and waves,and the biological systemsthat they house filter the waterand make it safer for us to work and play.Coral reefs are chemists.The molecules that we&#39;re discoveringon coral reefs are increasingly importantin the search for new antibioticsand new cancer drugs.And coral reefs are artists.The structures that they buildare some of the mostbeautiful things on planet Earth.And this beauty is the foundationof the tourism industryin many countries with fewor little other natural resources.
时间： 1:50
zh-cn:那么针对这么多有利的原因和生态系统的服务，经济学家估算了这种珊瑚礁的价值，可以达到几千亿，每年。尽管珊瑚礁为我们做了所有这些艰辛的工作，尽管我们获得了所有的财富，我们却已经几乎不遗余力地破坏了它们。我们从海洋里获取鱼类，与此同时，我们加入了肥料和废水，以及疾病，石油，污染物，还有沉积物。我们的船舶，船舵和推土机已经践踏了珊瑚礁，我们已经改变了整个海洋的化学结构，导致海水温度升高，风暴变得更加猛烈。这其中的每一项本身就是有害的，而它们还会相互作用，彼此强化，让各个因素的负面效果愈演愈烈。
en:So for all of these reasons,all of these ecosystem services,economists estimate the valueof the world&#39;s coral reefsin the hundreds of billionsof dollars per year.And yet despite all that hard workbeing done for usand all that wealth that we gain,we have done almost everythingwe possibly could to destroy that.We have taken the fish out of the oceansand we have added in fertilizer, sewage,diseases, oil, pollution, sediments.We have trampled the reefs physicallywith our boats, our fins, our bulldozers,and we have changed the chemistryof the entire sea,warmed the waters and made storms worse.And these would all be bad on their own,but these threats magnify each otherand compound one anotherand make each other worse.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:我给你们举个例子。Curaçao是我生活工作的地方，这里几年前被一个热带风暴侵袭过。在岛的最东端，珊瑚们保存完好，生长得很繁茂，你很难相信一个热带风暴潮刚刚经过这里。但是在城镇中心，那里的珊瑚早已死于过度捕鱼和污染，热带风暴潮夹带起死去的珊瑚，用它们撞击并消灭了其他活着的珊瑚。这是一种我在读博士期间研究过的珊瑚，我很了解它。在风暴潮过后，它只剩了半边组织，它开始被海藻侵蚀，海藻在珊瑚身上过度生长，然后珊瑚就死了。这样的巨大威胁，这种混合因素，正是 Jeremy Jackson描述的那样&quot;滑向烂泥深渊的斜坡。&quot;这可能都不是只是个隐喻了，因为很多礁石都是由细菌，海草和烂泥组成的了。
en:I&#39;ll give you an example.Where I live and work, in Curaçao,a tropical storm went by a few years ago.And on the eastern end of the island,where the reefs are intact and thriving,you could barely tella tropical storm had passed.But in town, where corals had diedfrom overfishing, from pollution,the tropical storm picked upthe dead coralsand used them as bludgeonsto kill the corals that were left.This is a coral that I studiedduring my PhD —I got to know it quite well.And after this stormtook off half of its tissue,it became infested with algae,the algae overgrew the tissueand that coral died.This magnification of threats,this compounding of factorsis what Jeremy Jackson describesas the &quot;slippery slope to slime.&quot;It&#39;s hardly even a metaphorbecause many of our reefs noware literally bacteriaand algae and slime.
时间： 3:27
zh-cn:现在你们可能觉得我马上就要开始提出关于保护珊瑚礁的倡议了。但是我必须要承认：保护珊瑚礁这词让我很受不了。无论我在微博，报纸头条，或是设计精美的环保宣传册上看到，那些辞藻都让我觉得很反感，因为我们这些自然环境保护者几十年来一直在散播关于珊瑚礁死亡的警告。但是现在，几乎我遇到的所有人，无论他们受教育程度如何，居然都不知道什么是珊瑚，或不知道它们从哪里来。那么我们要如何让人们来关心世界上的珊瑚礁呢？对大众来说它们只是抽象的词汇，又怎么会被人们所了解呢？如果大众不知道珊瑚是什么，从何而来，或者它们多么有意思，亦或不知道它们有多美丽，那为什么我们要期待大众去保护它们呢？
en:Now, this is the part of the talkwhere you may expect meto launch into my pleafor us to all save the coral reefs.But I have a confession to make:that phrase drives me nuts.Whether I see it in a tweet,in a news headlineor the glossy pagesof a conservation brochure,that phrase bothers me,because we as conservationistshave been sounding the alarmsabout the deathof coral reefs for decades.And yet, almost everyone I meet,no matter how educated,is not sure what a coral isor where they come from.How would we get someone to careabout the world&#39;s coral reefswhen it&#39;s an abstract thingthey can barely understand?If they don&#39;t understandwhat a coral is or where it comes from,or how funny or interestingor beautiful it is,why would we expect themto care about saving them?
时间： 4:21
zh-cn:那么，我们要改变一下现状了。什么是珊瑚，它们从哪来？珊瑚可以通过很多种方式诞生，但通常是通过大量产卵：所有这些同一类的珊瑚虫个体在每年的一个晚上，释放它们当年产的所有卵到水柱中去，并和精子细胞打包在一起。那些卵包到了海面，散开。之后在海面上，咱们只能是希望，它们可能遇到了其他珊瑚虫的卵子和精子。而这就是为什么一个珊瑚礁上需要大量的珊瑚虫——这样它们所有的卵才能在海面上找到精子。当这些卵受精后，它们就像其他动物的卵一样：一遍又一遍地分裂。在显微镜下拍到这些照片，成为了我每年最喜欢的，最神奇的时刻之一。在所有这些细胞分裂结束后，它们变成了游动的幼虫——小小的一团，肥的像个罂粟种子，但已经具备我们人类所有的感觉系统了。它们可以感知颜色和光，材质，化学物质和酸碱值。它们甚至可以感觉到压力波；可以听到声音。而且它们可以用这些天份，去寻找珊瑚礁的底端附着上去，并在珊瑚礁上度过它们的余生。
en:So let&#39;s change that.What is a coraland where does it come from?Corals are bornin a number of different ways,but most often by mass spawning:all of the individuals of a single specieson one night a year,releasing all the eggsthey&#39;ve made that yearinto the water column,packaged into bundles with sperm cells.And those bundles go to the surfaceof the ocean and break apart.And hopefully — hopefully —at the surface of the ocean,they meet the eggs and spermfrom other corals.And that is why you needlots of corals on a coral reef —so that all of their eggs canmeet their match at the surface.When they&#39;re fertilized, they dowhat any other animal egg does:divides in half again and again and again.Taking these photosunder the microscope every yearis one of my favorite and mostmagical moments of the year.At the end of all this cell division,they turn into a swimming larva —a little tiny blob of fatthe size of a poppy seed,but with all of the sensorysystems that we have.They can sense color and light,textures, chemicals, pH.They can even feel pressure waves;they can hear sound.And they use those talentsto search the bottom of the reeffor a place to attachand live the rest of their lives.
时间： 5:33
zh-cn:那么想像下找到一个地方去度过你们的余生，而当时你只诞生了两天。它们附着在它们觉得最适合的地方，在自己身体下面创造支架，一起建造一张嘴和很多触手，然后就开始了艰难的工作，去建造全世界的珊瑚礁。一只珊瑚虫将自己分裂一次又一次，在其腹下产生一个石灰岩的骨架，然后朝着太阳的方向的生长。数百年之后，万物纵生，一个巨大的石灰结构形成了，在太空上都能从很多地方看到，表面还覆盖着薄薄的一层这些辛勤工作的珊瑚虫。现在，仅有几百种珊瑚存于世间，也可能1000种。但是这种珊瑚的石灰结构却是亿万其他生物的栖息地，而其多样性造就了这个生态系统的稳定性，也让我们找到了新型的药物。我们在其中还找到了新的食物来源。我很幸运能在 Curaçao岛上工作，在那里我们仍能找到像这样的珊瑚礁。但是，事实上在加勒比海和世界上大多数地方，却是这般光景。
en:So imagine finding a placewhere you would live the rest of your lifewhen you were just two days old.They attach in the placethey find most suitable,they build a skeletonunderneath themselves,they build a mouth and tentacles,and then they begin the difficult workof building the world&#39;s coral reefs.One coral polyp will divide itselfagain and again and again,leaving a limestone skeletonunderneath itselfand growing up toward the sun.Given hundreds of years and many species,what you get is a massivelimestone structurethat can be seen from space in many cases,covered by a thin skinof these hardworking animals.Now, there are only a few hundred speciesof corals on the planet, maybe 1,000.But these systems house millionsand millions of other species,and that diversity is whatstabilizes the systems,and it&#39;s where we&#39;re findingour new medicines.It&#39;s how we find new sources of food.I&#39;m lucky enough to workon the island of Curaçao,where we still have reefsthat look like this.But, indeed, much of the Caribbeanand much of our worldis much more like this.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:科学家们更深入地研究了这种退化的本质原因，为何我们的珊瑚礁会慢慢消失，他们已经记录了不断被确定的原因。但是在我的研究中，我对过去不感兴趣。我和我同事在Curaçao岛上对将来可能会发生什么很感兴趣。我们只能用最微不足道的原因去保持乐观。因为即使在某些我们早就不抱希望的珊瑚礁中，我们有时仍会看到珊瑚虫的幼虫到达这里，并挣扎生存下来。随后，我们开始思考，这些小珊瑚虫们可能有某种能力去适应一些成年珊瑚虫可能适应不了的地方。它们可能可以调整自身去不断适应这个被人类占领的星球。所以在Curaçao的研究中，我和同事们努力去找出小珊瑚虫生长需要的因素，特别是在关键的早期生长过程中，这些小珊瑚虫到底在找些什么，以及我们怎么才能帮助它们渡过这些难关。我将向你们展示我们工作中的三个例子，并以此来解答我刚提出的那些困惑。
en:Scientists have studiedin increasing detailthe loss of the world&#39;s coral reefs,and they have documentedwith increasing certainty the causes.But in my research, I&#39;m notinterested in looking backward.My colleagues and I in Curaçaoare interested in looking forwardat what might be.And we have the tiniest reasonto be optimistic.Because even in some of these reefsthat we probably could havewritten off long ago,we sometimes see baby coralsarrive and survive anyway.And we&#39;re starting to thinkthat baby corals may have the abilityto adjust to some of the conditionsthat the adults couldn&#39;t.They may be able to adjustever so slightly more readilyto this human planet.So in the research I dowith my colleagues in Curaçao,we try to figure outwhat a baby coral needsin that critical early stage,what it&#39;s looking forand how we can try to help itthrough that process.I&#39;m going to show you three examplesof the work we&#39;ve doneto try to answer those questions.
时间： 7:41
zh-cn:在几年以前，我们用3D打印设备，进行了珊瑚选择鉴定研究，给出不同颜色和材质的环境，我们简单地观察珊瑚虫，想知道哪些环境是它们最喜欢的。之后我们发现珊瑚虫甚至在没有任何生物手段干预的情况下，仍然选择了白色和粉红，代表着健康礁石。它们喜欢裂缝，凹槽，还有洞，在那些地方它们可以免受外界侵扰，也不会被捕食者吃掉。所以我们可以用这些知识，回到实验室，提出我们需要重构这些因素——粉红的，白色的，有裂缝的，坚硬的表面——列入到我们的保护项目之中。我们也能把这些知识，运用到建造海底墙体和码头上，把合适的材料放在水下。我们可以选择用这些材料、颜色、纹路，让整个生态系统有利于珊瑚虫的生存。除了研究合适的表面，我们也研究了可以吸引珊瑚虫附着在礁石上的化学和微生物因素。大约六年前，我就开始培养珊瑚礁表面有珊瑚栖息的区域的细菌。我一个一个地试，想要找到那些能诱导珊瑚虫聚集吸附的细菌种类。现在我们有很多细菌株在冷冻柜里，这些细菌是珊瑚虫信赖的，愿意去附着和生长的菌类。就在演讲的这段时间里，我的同事们正在Curaçao测试那些细菌，去研究它们是否能帮助我们在实验室建造珊瑚的栖息地，以及这些有珊瑚附着的结构能够在海水中更好地生存。
en:A few years ago we took a 3D printerand we made coral choice surveys —different colors and different textures,and we simply asked the coralwhere they preferred to settle.And we found that corals,even without the biology involved,still prefer white and pink,the colors of a healthy reef.And they prefer crevicesand grooves and holes,where they will be safefrom being trampledor eaten by a predator.So we can use this knowledge,we can go back and saywe need to restore those factors —that pink, that white, those crevices,those hard surfaces —in our conservation projects.We can also use that knowledgeif we&#39;re going to put somethingunderwater, like a sea wall or a pier.We can choose to use the materialsand colors and texturesthat might bias the systemback toward those corals.Now in addition to the surfaces,we also study the chemicaland microbial signalsthat attract corals to reefs.Starting about six years ago,I began culturing bacteriafrom surfaces where corals had settled.And I tried those one by one by one,looking for the bacteria that wouldconvince corals to settle and attach.And we now have manybacterial strains in our freezerthat will reliably cause coralsto go through that settlementand attachment process.So as we speak,my colleagues in Curaçaoare testing those bacteriato see if they&#39;ll help us raisemore coral settlers in the lab,and to see if those coral settlerswill survive betterwhen we put them back underwater.
时间： 9:05
zh-cn:除了这些工具，我们也在努力解开不为我们所熟知的物种的秘密。这是其中我最喜欢的珊瑚中的一种，一直都是：系统柱状的，柱状珊瑚。我喜欢它，因为它有着无与伦比的形状，因为它的触须胖嘟嘟，看起来毛茸茸，还因为它很稀有。能找到这样一种珊瑚绝对是一种慰藉。实际上，它是真的太稀有了，以至于它去年被认为是濒危物种，出现在了濒危物种列表上。这不难理解，因为在过去30年的研究中，科学家从未发现过一只幼年柱形珊瑚虫。我们之前都无法确信它是否还可以继续繁衍，或者当时是否还在繁殖。
en:Now in addition to these tools,we also try to uncover the mysteriesof species that are under-studied.This is one of my favorite corals,and always has been:dendrogyra cylindrus, the pillar coral.I love it because it makesthis ridiculous shape,because its tentaclesare fat and look fuzzyand because it&#39;s rare.Finding one of these on a reef is a treat.In fact, it&#39;s so rare,that last year it was listedas a threatened specieson the endangered species list.And this was in part becausein over 30 years of research surveys,scientists had never founda baby pillar coral.We weren&#39;t even sureif they could still reproduce,or if they were still reproducing.
时间： 9:46
zh-cn:所以四年前，我们开始在夜间观察，看它们什么时候会在Curaçao产卵。我们从佛罗里达的同事那里得到了一些好的建议，他们在2007年和2008年分别看到了一只柱状珊瑚，终于我们发现了它们在Curaçao产卵的时间，我们捕捉到了这个时刻。左边是一只母珊瑚虫和一些卵，正要把这些卵释放到海水中。而右边是一只公的珊瑚虫在释放精子。我们收集了这些卵子和精子，带回实验室进行培育，于是就有了柱状珊瑚虫在我们实验室里里游来游去。感谢我们的科学界的前辈们，也要感谢我们在Curaçao岛上十年培育其他珊瑚虫种类的经验，我们有了一些珊瑚幼虫可以完成余下的步骤，让它们在礁石上附着和生存下来，并形成变质珊瑚礁。这是所有人见过的第一只年幼的柱状珊瑚虫。
en:So four years ago, we startedfollowing these at nightand watching to see if we couldfigure out when they spawn in Curaçao.We got some good tipsfrom our colleagues in Florida,who had seen one in 2007, one in 2008,and eventually we figured outwhen they spawn in Curaçaoand we caught it.Here&#39;s a female on the leftwith some eggs in her tissue,about to release them into the seawater.And here&#39;s a maleon the right, releasing sperm.We collected this, we got itback to the lab, we got it to fertilizeand we got baby pillar coralsswimming in our lab.Thanks to the workof our scientific aunts and uncles,and thanks to the 10 years of practicewe&#39;ve had in Curaçaoat raising other coral species,we got some of those larvaeto go through the rest of the processand settle and attach,and turn into metamorphosed corals.So this is the first pillar coral babythat anyone ever saw.
时间：10:42
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：10:48
zh-cn:我不得不说——如果你们认为熊猫宝宝很可爱，那这些小珊瑚虫更可爱。
en:And I have to say —if you think baby pandas are cute,this is cuter.
时间：10:52
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:55
zh-cn:我们正在研究珊瑚繁殖过程的秘密，我们要找出如何帮助它们繁殖。全世界都面临着同样的情况；科学家们正在找出新的方法去处理珊瑚虫的胚胎，让它们栖息生长，甚至在想办法让它们能够在低温下生长，这样我们就可以保护它们的基因多样性，并且有更多机会对它们进行研究。但是这个过程的技术含量太低了。我们实验室的空间有限，人手也不够，连休息时间提供的咖啡都少得可怜。
en:So we&#39;re starting to figure outthe secrets to this process,the secrets of coral reproductionand how we might help them.And this is true all around the world;scientists are figuring out new waysto handle their embryos,to get them to settle,maybe even figuring out the methodsto preserve them at low temperatures,so that we can preservetheir genetic diversityand work with them more often.But this is still so low-tech.We are limited by the space on our bench,the number of hands in the laband the number of coffeeswe can drink in any given hour.
时间：11:31
zh-cn:现在，与我们人类遇到的其他危机，以及其他社会问题比较一下。我们有先进的医疗技术，防御技术，我们也有科学手段，甚至还有先进的艺术科技。但是我们的环保技术却远远落后了。想想你们做过的最艰难的工作。你们很多人肯定会说是为人父母。我的妈妈描述了为人父母，会让自己的生命更加精彩，也更加艰辛，相比任何所能想象的工作。我已经从事让珊瑚虫们做父母这项工作超过十年了。见证这些生命的奇迹，让我的内心十分充实，在灵魂深处也惊叹不已。但是我看到了珊瑚虫们想成为父母有多么困难。那些柱状珊瑚虫两周前在此产卵，我们取了它们的卵，并带回了实验室。这里你们可以看到一个胚胎在分裂，马上就会炸裂开，而旁边其他的14个卵还没有任何分裂迹象。这些珊瑚虫卵会被细菌感染，爆裂开来，而这些细菌也会侵害那只能够分裂的胚胎。我们不知道是我们的处理过程有问题，还是只有这种珊瑚虫在礁石上繁育率一直很低。无论这种低产率的原因是什么，在我们能用这些珊瑚虫去培育、修复、或者保护珊瑚礁之前，我们还有更多的工作要做。
en:Now, compare that to our other crisesand our other areasof concern as a society.We have advanced medical technology,we have defense technology,we have scientific technology,we even have advanced technology for art.But our technologyfor conservation is behind.Think back to the mostdifficult job you ever did.Many of you would sayit was being a parent.My mother described being a parentas something that makes your lifefar more amazing and far more difficultthan you could&#39;ve ever possibly imagined.I&#39;ve been trying to help coralsbecome parents for over 10 years now.And watching the wonder of lifehas certainly filled me with amazementto the core of my soul.But I&#39;ve also seen how difficultit is for them to become parents.The pillar corals spawnedagain two weeks ago,and we collected their eggsand brought them back to the lab.And here you see one embryo dividing,alongside 14 eggs that didn&#39;t fertilizeand will blow up.They&#39;ll be infected with bacteria,they will explodeand those bacteria will threatenthe life of this one embryothat has a chance.We don&#39;t know if it was our handlingmethods that went wrongand we don&#39;t knowif it was just this coral on this reef,always suffering from low fertility.Whatever the cause,we have much more work to dobefore we can use baby coralsto grow or fix or, yes,maybe save coral reefs.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:不要在意它们是否价值连城。珊瑚礁由是辛勤工作的动植物和细菌组成的。它们给予了我们艺术，食物和药物。我们几乎毁掉了整整一代的珊瑚。但是仍有一些幸存了下来尽管我们一直在不遗余力地破坏着，所以现在我们应该去感谢这些物种，并且给予它们所有能在未来长成珊瑚礁的机会，保护珊瑚幼虫。
en:So never mind that they&#39;re worthhundreds of billions of dollars.Coral reefs are hardworking animalsand plants and microbes and fungi.They&#39;re providing us with artand food and medicine.And we almost took outan entire generation of corals.But a few made it anyway,despite our best efforts,and now it&#39;s time for us to thank themfor the work they didand give them every chance they haveto raise the coral reefs of the future,their coral babies.
时间：13:36
zh-cn:非常谢谢你们。
en:Thank you so much.
时间：13:37
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
