时间： 0:12
zh-cn:今天，我将带你们启程前往一个很深、很黑暗、未被探索过的地方，我们对它的了解比我们对月球背面的了解还要少。这是一个充满神秘与传奇之地。在古代地图上，它被标识为“怪物出没”的地方。这个地方，每个新的探索之旅都带回了有关惊人的神奇生物的新发现，我们的祖先认为这些生物是怪物。实际上，我十分羡慕我世界自然保护联盟的同事们能够去马达加斯加海岭的南部继续此次旅程，去拍摄真实的图片，去观察这些海洋深处的神奇生物。
en:Today I&#39;m going to take you on a voyageto some place so deep,so dark, so unexploredthat we know less about it than we know about the dark side of the moon.It&#39;s a place of myth and legend.It&#39;s a place marked on ancient mapsas &quot;here be monsters.&quot;It is a place where each new voyage of explorationbrings back new discoveries of creatures so wondrous and strangethat our forefathers would have considered them monstrous indeed.Instead, they just make me green with envythat my colleague from IUCNwas able to go on this journey to the south of Madagascar seamountsto actually take photographsand to see these wondrous creatures of the deep.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:我们谈论的是公海。公海是一个法律概念。但实际上，它覆盖了地球的50%。海洋的平均深度是4000米。实际上，公海为地球上的生命提供了近90%的栖息地。理论上，它是全球共有的，属于我们大家。但是，事实上它被某些有资源走入并勘探深海的人管理和利用着。因而，今天我要带你们展开旅程，破除一些过时的阻止我们成为在黑暗的公海的真正的利益相关者的神话、传奇与猜想。我们将航向一些特定的地点，在过去数年我们在这些地方有所发现，这些发现表明为何我们确实需要关注公海。最后，我们将试着发展和提出一个新的有关公海治理的观点。这一观点植根于整个海洋的保护，在国际准则框架内进行预警和关注。
en:We are talking about the high seas.The &quot;high seas&quot; is a legal term,but in fact, it covers 50 percent of the planet.With an average depth of the oceansof 4,000 meters,in fact, the high seas covers and providesnearly 90 percent of the habitatfor life on this Earth.It is, in theory, the global commons,belonging to us all.But in reality,it is managed by and forthose who have the resourcesto go out and exploit it.So today I&#39;m going to take you on a voyageto cast light on some of the outdated mythsand legends and assumptionsthat have kept us as the true stakeholdersin the high seas in the dark.We&#39;re going to voyage to some of these special placesthat we&#39;ve been discovering in the past few yearsto show why we really need to care.And then finally, we&#39;re going to tryto develop and pioneer a new perspectiveon high seas governancethat&#39;s rooted in ocean-basin-wide conservation,but framed in an arena of global normsof precaution and respect.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:好，这是一幅公海图片，正如之前所看到的 —是用深蓝色表示的区域。对于我，一名国际律师，这更加让我害怕，比起任何我们可能见过的生物或怪物更令人害怕，因为它说明我们能切实保护海洋，全球海洋提供给我们所有人需要的碳、热量、氧气，如果你仅能保护其中的36%的话。这是真正的地球之心。我们不得不面对的一些问题是现有的国际法——例如，航海方面——提供了更多保护给那些近岸区域。例如，垃圾排放，你可能认为仅仅是简单地排放掉，但是法律关于船舶垃圾排放的规定实际上离岸上越远就越软弱。因此，我们垃圾排放场所的面积相当于德克萨斯的两倍。这令人难以置信。我们过去认为解决污染的办法是进行稀释，但是这已被证明不再适用。
en:So here is a picture of the high seasas seen from above —that area in the darker blue.To me, as an international lawyer,this scared me far morethan any of the creatures or the monsters we may have seen,for it belies the notion that you can actually protect the ocean,the global ocean,that provides us all with carbon storage,with heat storage, with oxygen,if you can only protect 36 percent.This is indeed the true heart of the planet.Some of the problems that we have to confrontare that the current international laws —for example, shipping —provide more protectionto the areas closest to shore.For example, garbage discharge,something you would think just simply goes away,but the laws regulatingship discharge of garbageactually get weaker the further you are from shore.As a result, we have garbage patchesthe size of twice-Texas.It&#39;s unbelievable.We used to think the solution to pollutionwas dilution,but that has proved to be no longer the case.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:因此，我们从社会学家和经济学家，如埃莉诺.奥斯特洛姆那里学到的是，他们正在研究局部地区对共有物的管理现象，那里有某种先决条件，你能满足先决条件，就能为了个人或社会的利益管理和进入公共领域。这些包括一种共同的责任感，共同的理念将人们团结在一起。有条件准入：你可以邀请人们加入，但他们必须按规则行事。当然，如果你想让人们按规则行事，仍需要一个有效的系统来监督和实施，正如我们所发现的，你可信任他们，但是也须证明他们可信。
en:So what we have learned from social scientistsand economists like Elinor Ostrom,who are studying the phenomenonof management of the commons on a local scale,is that there are certain prerequisitesthat you can put into placethat enable you to manageand access open spacefor the good of one and all.And these include a sense of shared responsibility,common norms that bind people together as a community.Conditional access: You can invite people in,but they have to be able to play by the rules.And of course, if you want people to play by the rules,you still need an effective systemof monitoring and enforcement,for as we&#39;ve discovered,you can trust, but you also need to verify.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:我还想传达的是，厄运和黑暗并非我们在公海上所见到的全部。对于一群非常乐于奉献的个人——科学家、环境保护主义者、摄影家和国家——能够实实在在地改变悲剧轨迹，这些悲剧轨迹破坏了脆弱的海洋风光。例如这个珊瑚花园，你面前所看到的这张，我们能够从深海底部的拖网捕捞中挽救其命运。我们怎么做的呢？如我之前所说，我们有一群摄影家登船出海，他们拍摄了拖网捕捞活动过程。但是，我们也在在联合国的机构内花了一些时间，尝试与政府合作，让他们明白远离陆地的地方发生了什么我们过去几乎没有人能想象到的事，这些生物存在。
en:What I&#39;d also like to conveyis that it is not all doom and gloomthat we are seeing in the high seas.For a group of very dedicated individuals —scientists, conservationists,photographers and states —were able to actually change a tragic trajectorythat was destroying fragile seascapessuch as this coral gardenthat you see in front of you.That is, we&#39;re able to save it from a fateof deep-sea bottom trawling.And how did we do that?Well, as I said, we had a group of photographers that went out on board shipsand actually photographed the activities in process.But we also spent many hoursin the basements of the United Nations,trying to work with governments to make them understandwhat was going on so far away from landthat few of us had ever even imaginedthat these creatures existed.
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:故在3年内，从2003到2006年，我们能够建立一些规范。这些规范确实改变了过去的模式，有关渔民从事深海拖网捕捞的模式，你不再能想去哪就去哪，想干啥就干啥。我们确实创设了一种制度，你想到哪里去需要预先评估，并有责任避免重大损害。2009年，当联合国检查我们的进度时，他们发现，几乎1亿平方公里的海床受到了保护。这并非意味着问题得到了彻底解决或者已经提供了永久性保护。但是它确实意味着，一群个人可以形成一个团体，来切实塑造公海时代的治理方式，创造一种新的制度。故我乐观地看待我们的机遇，来创造一个真正蔚蓝的前景，为这美丽的星球。“西尔维娅的愿望”（项目名称）向我们提供了通往人类心灵的途径。你可能会说，这些几乎鼠目寸光的人现在却越来越有兴趣关注海龟这样的生物的整个生命周期。他们真的将大部分时间花在了公海上。
en:So within three years,from 2003 to 2006,we were able to get norm in placethat actually changed the paradigmof how fishers went aboutdeep-sea bottom trawling.Instead of &quot;go anywhere, do anything you want,&quot;we actually created a regimethat required prior assessment of where you&#39;re goingand a duty to prevent significant harm.In 2009, when the U.N. reviewed progress,they discoveredthat almost 100 million square-kilometers of seabedhad been protected.This does not mean that it&#39;s the final solution,or that this even provides permanent protection.But what it does meanis that a group of individuals can form a communityto actually shapethe way high seas are governed,to create a new regime.So I&#39;m looking optimistically at our opportunitiesfor creating a true, blue perspectivefor this beautiful planet.Sylvia&#39;s wishprovides us with that leverage, that accessto the heart of human beings,you might say,who have rarely seen places beyond their own toes,but are now hopefully going to become interestedin the full life-cycle of creatures like these sea turtles,who indeed spend most of their time in the high seas.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:今天我们只打算航行到这些特殊地区中的很小一部分，仅仅是给你一点有关它们所蕴含的富饶与神奇风情的概念。例如马尾藻海，它不是一个被海岸包围的海洋，它被洋流环绕，洋流包裹和环绕着马尾藻的养分。马尾藻生长、聚集于此。它也被认为是鳗鱼产卵之地。这些鳗鱼来自北欧和北美的河流。这些鱼的数量正在减少。在斯德哥尔摩，它们已经消失了。最近在英国发现了5条。
en:Today, we&#39;re just going to voyage to a small samplingof some of these special areas,just to give you an idea of the flavorof the riches and wonders they do contain.The Sargasso Sea, for example,is not a sea bounded by coastlines,but it is bounded by oceanic currentsthat contain and envelopethis wealth of sargassumthat grows and aggregates there.It&#39;s also known as the spawning ground for eelsfrom Northern Europeanand Northern American riversthat are now so dwindling in numbersthat they&#39;ve actually stopped showing up in Stockholm,and five showed up in the U.K. just recently.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:但是在马尾藻海以聚集马尾藻的同样方式聚集了充满整个区域的塑料。这个图片并未确切显示我所想展示的这些塑料垃圾，因为我自己从未到过那里。但是这有一项研究已于2月开始进行表明那里每平方公里有20万片塑料垃圾正漂浮在马尾藻海的海面。而且影响了很多处于成长阶段的物种的栖息地。它们来到马尾藻海为了获得保护及食物。马尾藻海仍是个神奇之地，由于这些独特物种的聚集。它们已适应马尾藻的栖息地。它也确实提供了一个特殊的栖息场所，让这些飞鱼产卵。但是，我从这幅图片想到的是，我们确实有机会开展全球化的保护倡议因此，百慕大政府已经认识到必要性和责任感。有部分马尾藻海在其国内管辖权的范围之内——但是，马尾藻海庞大的主体部分超出了其管辖范围——百慕大政府正作为一项运动的先锋来保护这个极重要的地区。
en:But the Sargasso Sea,the same way it aggregates sargassum weed,actually is pulling in the plasticfrom throughout the region.This picture doesn&#39;t exactly showthe plastics that I would like it to show, because I haven&#39;t been out there myself.But there has just been a studythat was released in Februarythat showed there are 200,000pieces of plastic per square-kilometernow floating in the surface of the Sargasso Sea,and that is affecting the habitatfor the many species in their juvenile stageswho come to the Sargasso Seafor its protection and its food.The Sargasso Sea is also a wondrous placefor the aggregation of these unique speciesthat have developed to mimic the sargassum habitat.It also provides a special habitatfor these flying fish to lay their eggs.But what I&#39;d like to get from this pictureis that we truly do have an opportunityto launch a global initiative for protection.Thus, the government of Bermuda has recognized the needand its responsibilityas having some of the Sargasso Seawithin its national jurisdiction —but the vast majority is beyond —to help spearhead a movementto achieve protection for this vital area.
时间： 7:46
zh-cn:现在我们转向一个比马尾藻海更冷一点的地方，南太平洋的罗斯海。它实际是个海湾。它被认为是公海，因为该大陆已经超出任何国家宣示领土的限度。因此，该水域中的一切都被当做公海一样对待。但是罗斯海如此重要是因为广袤海域由浮冰构成。浮冰在春季和夏季提供养分给浮游生物和磷虾。直到近年它们仍支持着一个完整的近海生态系统。但是不幸的是，CAMLAR——一个地区的委员会，它负责保护和管理渔业资源和其他海洋生物资源，不幸地开始向捕鱼利益让步并授权在本地区扩大对牙鱼的捕捞。一艘新西兰船舶的船长刚到过那里。他报告称，罗斯海虎鲸数量急剧减少。虎鲸直接依赖南极牙鱼作为主要食物来源。因此，我们需要做的是大胆站起来，分别和共同向政府施压，向地区渔业管理组织施压，宣示我们的权利，声明公海某些地区捕鱼量的上限。以此说明捕鱼自由不在意味着在任何地方、任何时间捕鱼的自由。
en:Spinning down to someplace a little bit cooler than here right now:the Ross Sea in the Southern Ocean.It&#39;s actually a bay.It&#39;s considered high seas, because the continenthas been put off limitsto territorial claims.So anything in the water is treated as if it&#39;s the high seas.But what makes the Ross Sea importantis the vast sea of pack icethat in the spring and summerprovides a wealth of phytoplankton and krillthat supports what, till recently,has been a virtually intactnear-shore ecosystem.But unfortunately, CCAMLR,the regional commissionin charge of conserving and managing fish stocksand other living marine resources,is unfortunately starting to give in to fishing interestsand has authorized the expansionof toothfish fisheries in the region.The captain of a New Zealand vesselwho was just down thereis reporting a significant declinein the number of the Ross Sea killer whales,who are directly dependent on the Antarctic toothfishas their main source of food.So what we need to do is to stand up boldly,singly and together,to push governments,to push regional fisheries management organizations,to declare our rightto declare certain areas off-limits to high seas fishing,so that the freedom to fish no longer meansthe freedom to fish anywhere and anytime.
时间： 9:07
zh-cn:换一个更接近这里的地方，哥斯达黎加圆突区是近年才开发的地区——是潜在的蓝鲸的常年栖息地。这里有足够的食物让他们度过四季。但是，哥斯达黎加圆突区的不平凡之处在于它实际不是一个永久性区域。这是一个海洋学的现象，它随时间及季节变动。实际上，它并非永久处于公海上，它也并非永久处于中美洲五国的专属经济区。它随季节移动。正因为如此，对它进行保护是项挑战。但是我们也面临着保护随着它而移动的物种的挑战。我们能够使用同样的技术，即渔民识别鱼群所在地的技术，来接近这一地区。当它极其脆弱的时候——在很多情况下，这可能是常年的。
en:Coming closer to here, the Costa Rica Domeis a recently discovered area —potentially year-round habitat for blue whales.There&#39;s enough food there to last themthe summer and the winter long.But what&#39;s unusual about the Costa Rica Domeis, in fact, it&#39;s not a permanent place.It&#39;s an oceanographic phenomenonthat shifts in time and space on a seasonal basis.So, in fact, it&#39;s not permanently in the high seas.It&#39;s not permanently in the exclusive economic zonesof these five Central American countries,but it moves with the season.As such, it does create a challenge to protect,but we also have a challenge protecting the species that move along with it.We can use the same technologies that fishers useto identify where the species are,in order to close the areawhen it&#39;s most vulnerable,which may, in some cases, be year-round.
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:我们靠近海岸一点，就会发现这是在加拉帕格斯群岛发生的情况。很多物种经过这一地区，因而这里获得很多有关保护太平洋东部热带海洋的关注。此倡议是得到国际保护组织和各方面以及一些政府的配合，力图建立一体化的管理制度，在这一区域。它提供了一个“你能去哪里”的极好范例，用一个真实的地区性倡议的方式。它保护着五处世界遗产。不幸的是，世界人类遗产公约没有意识到需要保护的区域目前超出了国家管辖的范围。因此，一个像哥斯达黎加圆突区的地方，严格来说无法证明它在公海内的时间。因此我们建议：要么我们需要修订世界人类遗产公约，让它能适应和推动对这些世界遗产的普遍性保护。要么我们改变该公约的名称，称之为“半世界人类遗产公约”。但是，我们也知道像这些海龟这样的物种不会一直处于太平洋东部热带海洋。它们有时会进入广阔的南太平洋的涡流中，在此度过它们的大半生。并且它们经常最后被这样钩住，或者被误捕。
en:Getting closer to shore, where we are,this was in fact taken in the Galapagos.Many species are headed through this region,which is why there&#39;s been so much attentionput into conservationof the Eastern Tropical Pacific Seascape.This is the initiative that&#39;s been coordinatedby Conservation Internationalwith a variety of partners and governmentsto actually try to bring integrated management regimethroughout the area.That is, it provides a wonderful example of where you can gowith a real regional initiative.It&#39;s protecting five World Heritage sites.Unfortunately, the World Heritage Conventiondoes not recognize the need to protect areasbeyond national jurisdiction, at present.So a place like the Costa Rica Domecould not technically qualifythe time it&#39;s in the high seas.So what we&#39;ve been suggestingis that we either need to amend the World Heritage Convention,so that it can adoptand urge universal protection of these World Heritage sites,or we need to change the nameand call it Half-the-World Heritage Convention.But what we also know is that species like these sea turtlesdo not stay put in the Eastern Tropical Pacific Seascape.These happen to go down to a vast South Pacific Gyre,where they spend most of their timeand often end up getting hooked like this,or as bycatch.
时间：11:12
zh-cn:因此，我确实要建议我们需要拓展。我们需要局部性工作，但是我们也需要进行海洋全流域的工作。我们现在有一些工具和技术使我们能提出一个更广泛的海洋全流域的倡议。我们听说过“标记太平洋捕食动物”工程，这是17个“海洋生命普查”工程之一。它为我们提供了这样的数据，小小的灰鹱以整个海盆为家。在不到一年的时间内，它们飞行65000公里。因此我们有来自“海洋生命普查”工程的工具和数据。它的最后一年将于10月开始。故要继续等待进一步信息。振奋人心的发现是“海洋生命普查”不只着眼于标记太平洋的捕食动物，它同样注意未被探索过的中水层生物，在这里像这样游动的海参一类的生物已被发现。幸运的是，像国际自然和自然资源保护联合会一样，我们能够与“海洋生命普查”工作合作，而且有很多科学家为之工作，力图传递很多这种信息给政策制定者们。现在我们有了政府的支持。我们通过技术工作室发布这种信息。令人兴奋地是我们有足够的信息去进一步保护一些明显有希望的地区和热点地区。同时，我们号召“是的，我们需要更多，我们需要前进”。
en:So what I&#39;d really like to suggest is that we need to scale-up.We need to work locally,but we also need to work ocean-basin-wide.We have the tools and technologies nowto enable us to take a broaderocean-basin-wide initiative.We&#39;ve heard about the Tagging of Pacific Predators project,one of the 17 Census of Marine Life projects.It&#39;s provided us data like this,of tiny, little sooty shearwatersthat make the entire ocean basin their home.They fly 65,000 kilometersin less than a year.So we have the tools and treasures coming from the Census of Marine Life.And its culminating yearthat&#39;s going to be launched in October.So stay tuned for further information.What I find so excitingis that the Census of Marine Lifehas looked at more than the tagging of pacific predators;it&#39;s also looked in the really unexplored mid-water column,where creatures like this flying sea cucumberhave been found.And fortunately, we&#39;ve been able, as IUCN,to team up with the Census of Marine Lifeand many of the scientists working thereto actually try to translatemuch of this information to policymakers.We have the support of governments now behind us.We&#39;ve been revealing this information through technical workshops.And the exciting thing is that we do have sufficient informationto move ahead to protect some of thesesignificant hope spots, hotspots.At the same time we&#39;re saying,&quot;Yes, we need more. We need to move forward.&quot;
时间：12:36
zh-cn:但是你们中的很多人说过，如果这些海域能得到保护，或是一项合理的公海渔业管理制度能够到位。你将如何去执行它？这将我引向除了海洋科学以外，我第二感兴趣的方面，就是外层空间技术。我曾想成为一名宇航员，故我一直关注可从外层空间，监测地球的技术——如我们所知，我们拥有惊人的技术，跟踪被标记了的物种的科技，在它们的整个生命周期中，在海洋里。我们也能标记和追踪渔船。很多船上已经装了异频雷达收发机，使我们能发现它们在哪里以及在做什么。但是迄今为止并非所有船舶都安装上了。这并不需要多少高科技来创造新的法律。如果你想拥有特权获得我们的公海资源，我们需要知道——有人需要知道——你在哪里以及在做什么。
en:But many of you have said,if you get these marine protected areas,or a reasonable regime for high seas fisheries management in place,how are you going to enforce it?Which leads me to my second passion besides ocean science,which is outer space technology.I wanted to be an astronaut,so I&#39;ve constantly followedwhat are the tools available to monitor Earthfrom outer space —and that we have incredible tools like we&#39;ve been learning about,in terms of being able to follow tagged speciesthroughout their life-cyclesin the open ocean.We can also tag and track fishing vessels.Many already have transponders on boardthat allow us to find out where they are and even what they&#39;re doing.But not all the vessels have those to date.It does not take too much rocket scienceto actually try to create new laws to mandate,if you&#39;re going to have the privilegeof accessing our high seas resources,we need to know — someone needs to know —where you are and what you&#39;re doing.
时间：13:34
zh-cn:因此，它将我带回主题这就是我们能够避免共同的悲剧。我们能阻止这些冲突，这些冲突发生在占地球50%的公海上。但是我们需要广泛思考，我们需要全球性的思考，我们需要改变我们正用于管理这些资源的方式。我们需要获得新的关于预防和重视的模式。同时，我们需要局部性思考。“西尔维娅的愿望”能够获得成功的原因是我们能够聚焦于一个亮点，在这些此前未知的地区。然后把问题带给人们——如果你愿意——使他们感到自己是这个团体的一部分这个团体确实具有利害关系在他们未来的管理中。第三，我们需要关注海洋全流域的管理各物种都是海底全流域活动的很多深海群落有着遗传学分布，遍及海洋全流域。我们需要理解，但是我们也需要开始管理和保护。为了做到这些，你也需要海盆管理制度。我们有地区性管理制度，在专属经济区。但是我们需要整合它们，我们需要设立权限，像在南太平洋那样。在那里，它们有双管齐下的渔业和保护组织。
en:So it brings me to my main take-home message,which is we can avert a tragedy of the commons.We can stop the collision courseof 50 percent of the planetwith the high seas.But we need to think broad-scale. We need to think globally.We need to change how we actually go aboutmanaging these resources.We need to get the new paradigmof precaution and respect.At the same time, we need to think locally,which is the joy and marvel of Sylvia&#39;s hope spot wish,is that we can shine a spotlighton many of these previously unknown areas,and to bring people to the table, if you will,to actually make them feel part of this communitythat truly has a stakein their future management.And third is that we need to look at ocean-basin-wide management.Our species are ocean-basin-wide.Many of the deep-sea communitieshave genetic distributionthat goes ocean-basin-wide.We need to better understand,but we also need to start to manage and protect.And in order to do that,you also need ocean-basin management regimes.That is, we have regional management regimeswithin the exclusive economic zone,but we need to scale these up, we need to build their capacity,so they&#39;re like the Southern Ocean,where they do have the two-pronged fisheriesand conservation organization.
时间：14:54
zh-cn:所以在这一点上，我愿意真诚感谢和赞扬“西尔维娅.厄尔的愿望”，它帮助我们面向公海和超出国家管辖权的深海。这有助于我们组建一个令人惊叹的团体。它由极具天赋的人们共同组成，力图解决和洞察这些给我们制造障碍的问题，来管理和理性利用这曾一度遥远的区域。
en:So with that, I would just like to sincerely thank and honorSylvia Earle for her wish,for it is helping us to put a face on the high seasand the deep seas beyond national jurisdiction.It&#39;s helping to bring an incredible groupof talented people togetherto really try to solve and penetratethese problems that have created our obstaclesto management and rational useof this area that was once so far away and remote.
时间：15:21
zh-cn:因此，这趟旅程，我希望能带给你们一个有关公海的全新视角，公海只有一个，它也是我们的家园。我们需要共同努力，如果我们要使公海在未来成为可持续的属于所有人的海洋。
en:So on this tour, I hope I provided youwith a new perspective of the high seas:one, that it is our home too,and that we need to work togetherif we are to make this a sustainable ocean future for us all.
时间：15:33
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：15:35
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
