时间： 0:11
zh-cn:人们总是在谈论着宗教。（笑声）已故的伟大的克里斯托弗·希钦斯写过一本书，叫做《上帝并不伟大》它的副标题是：宗教毒害一切。（笑声）但是，在上个月的《时代》杂志上，拉比·戴维·沃尔普，也就是那个被誉为美国的拉比（先知）的人，为了反对这些对于宗教的消极看法，他说：只有有组织的宗教活动能够带来重要的社会形势的变革。
en:People say things about religion all the time.(Laughter)The late, great Christopher Hitchenswrote a book called &quot;God Is Not Great&quot;whose subtitle was, &quot;Religion Poisons Everything.&quot;(Laughter)But last month, in Time magazine,Rabbi David Wolpe, who I gatheris referred to as America&#39;s rabbi,said, to balance that againstthat negative characterization,that no important form of social changecan be brought about except through organized religion.
时间： 0:45
zh-cn:至今为止这些对于宗教的不好乃至好的评价都已经是老生常谈了。我现在就能想到一个：公元前的第一个世纪，卢克莱修（古罗马哲学家及诗人），也就是《物性论》的作者，他说，&quot;Tantum religio potuit suadere malorum&quot; （拉丁文）我应该是已经把它铭记于心了的，它的意思就是，宗教是可以使人们做一些邪恶的事情的，同时他还陈述了一个真实案例：阿伽门农决定将其女儿依菲琴尼亚作为祭祀的贡品，为的是保佑他的军队能够在以后的战争中所向披靡。因而从这个事件中就可以看出，实际上，有关宗教的讨论可以追溯到很久以前，我们甚至可以说超过了一千年。人们说了很多关于宗教的问题，有好有坏，观点不一。
en:Now, remarks of this sort on the negativeand the positive side are very old.I have one in my pocket herefrom the first century BCE by Lucretius,the author of &quot;On the Nature of Things,&quot; who said,&quot;Tantum religio potuit suadere malorum&quot; —I should have been able to learn that by heart —which is, that&#39;s how much religionis able to persuade people to do evil,and he was talking about the factof Agamemnon&#39;s decision to place his daughterIphigenia on an altar of sacrificein order to preserve the prospects of his army.So there have been these long debatesover the centuries, in that case, actually,we can say over the millennia, about religion.People have talked about it a lot,and they&#39;ve said good and badand indifferent things about it.
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:而我今天想和大家分享的只是一个很简单的想法:所有的这些争论在某种程度上都是荒谬的，因为这个世界上根本没有宗教这种东西，所以也就不应该产生这些观点。既然这个世界上根本没有宗教这种东西，我们也不应该评价其好坏。它甚至不能作为一个中立的说法。如果你想想其他的不存在的事物，一个很明显的检验这个观点是不是不存在的一个方法是按照这些观点定义这个事物，然后看看是否能寻找到符合这个定义的事物。我今天的演讲也将按照这条小路线出发。
en:What I want to persuade you of todayis of a very simple claim,which is that these debates arein a certain sense preposterous,because there is no such thing as religionabout which to make these claims.There isn&#39;t a thing called religion,and so it can&#39;t be good or bad.It can&#39;t even be indifferent.And if you think about claimsabout the nonexistence of things,one obvious way to try and establishthe nonexistence of a purported thingwould be to offer a definition of that thingand then to see whether anything satisfied it.I&#39;m going to start out on that little routeto begin with.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:当你希望依靠翻阅字典来明白宗教的意思时，你会发现字典上它的定义与相信上帝或者精神层面的事物有关。就像我刚才说的，这是大多数字典中给出的答案，但是你也会发现，实际上，在爱德华·泰勒的著作中也提到了这个观点，泰勒是牛津大学的第一位人类学教授，也是近代第一批人类学家中的一员。在他有关远古文化的著作中，他说，宗教的中心应该称作万物有灵论，也就是信仰神的使者，信仰神灵。这个定义首先出现的一个问题源于保罗•贝蒂最新出版的一本小说，叫做《塔夫》。他写道一个人向拉比求助。然而拉比却说他自己并不相信上帝。这个人又说，”你是拉比，你怎么能不相信上帝呢？“他回答道，“这就是作为一名犹太人的好处，你并不用信奉上帝本身，只要相信自己是个犹太人就行。”（笑声）所以，如果这个人是一个拉比，并且是一个犹太人的拉比，同时你又为了有宗教信仰而信仰上帝，那么我们会得出一个看似违反常理的结论，既然可以有一个犹太的拉比不信奉上帝，那么犹太教就不是一个宗教。这仿佛是一个非常有悖常理的想法。
en:So if you look in the dictionariesand if you think about it,one very natural definition of religionis that it involves belief in gods or in spiritual beings.As I say, this is in many dictionaries,but you&#39;ll also find it actuallyin the work of Sir Edward Tylor,who was the first professorof anthropology at Oxford,one of the first modern anthropologists.In his book on primitive culture,he says the heart of religionis what he called animism,that is, the belief in spiritual agency,belief in spirits.The first problem for that definitionis from a recent novel by Paul Beatty called &quot;Tuff.&quot;There&#39;s a guy talking to a rabbi.The rabbi says he doesn&#39;t believe in God.The guy says, &quot;You&#39;re a rabbi,how can you not believe in God?&quot;And the reply is, &quot;It&#39;s what&#39;sso great about being Jewish.You don&#39;t have to believe in a God per se,just in being Jewish.&quot; (Laughter)So if this guy is a rabbi, and a Jewish rabbi,and if you have to believe inGod in order to be religious,then we have the rather counterintuitive conclusionthat since it&#39;s possible to be a Jewish rabbiwithout believing in God,Judaism isn&#39;t a religion.That seems like a pretty counterintuitive thought.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:这里还有另外一个反对这一观点的说法。我一个朋友，一个印度朋友，在他很小的时候，有一次他去看他的祖父，这时候他还是个孩子，他对他的祖父说，“我想和你谈谈宗教这个话题，”他的祖父说，“你现在还太小，等你变成一个真正的少年以后再来和我讨论这个话题。”当他成为少年以后，他又回来了，他对他祖父说，“现在讨论这个话题也许有点晚了，因为我已经发现了我并不相信上帝。”而他祖父则是一个非常明智的人，他说，“哦，原来你是传统印度教中无神论分支的一份子。”（笑声）
en:Here&#39;s another argument against this view.A friend of mine, an Indian friend of mine,went to his grandfather when he was very young,a child, and said to him,&quot;I want to talk to you about religion,&quot;and his grandfather said, &quot;You&#39;re too young.Come back when you&#39;re a teenager.&quot;So he came back when he was a teenager,and he said to his grandfather,&quot;It may be a bit late nowbecause I&#39;ve discovered thatI don&#39;t believe in the gods.&quot;And his grandfather, who was a wise man, said,&quot;Oh, so you belong to the atheist branchof the Hindu tradition.&quot; (Laughter)
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:最后，这个人变成一位非常有名的无神论着，他的名字是达赖喇嘛。他总是开玩笑说他是世界上最有名的无神论者之一。这是事实，因为达赖喇嘛的宗教信仰中并不涉及相信上帝。
en:And finally, there&#39;s this guy,who famously doesn&#39;t believe in God.His name is the Dalai Lama.He often jokes that he&#39;s oneof the world&#39;s leading atheists.But it&#39;s true, because the Dalai Lama&#39;s religiondoes not involve belief in God.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:现在，你也许会认为我刚才给大家展示的这些是对宗教的错误定义，我还应该找到一些其他的定义并逐一检测他们的正确性，尝试找到一个定义能够囊括无神犹太教，无神印度教，无神佛教，以及其他各种形式的信仰。但我真的认为这是一个坏主意，我之所以认为它是一个坏主意是因为我不相信我们这个寻找宗教定义的方法会起作用。我认为我们对宗教的定义之所以起作用实际上是因为我们列了一张宗教变化表以及其分支，对吧，如果出现了什么新的东西，而他们又打算把自己划入宗教范畴内，我们就会问，“看，它们是不是和现存的那些很像呢？””不是吗？“我想，这不是仅仅关于我们对宗教怎么看，而是，仅从我个人观点来讲，我们认为那张清单上的每个名字最好都能是一种宗教，这也就是为什么我不认为排除了佛教和犹太教的宗教定义不是一个好的开始，因为它们的名字已经在我们的名单上了。但是，为什么我们会有这样的一个名单呢？究竟发生了什么事？我们究竟是如何创造出这个名单的呢？
en:Now you might think this just showsthat I&#39;ve given you the wrong definitionand that I should come up with some other definitionand test it against these casesand try and find something that capturesatheistic Judaism, atheistic Hinduism,and atheistic Buddhism as forms of religiosity,but I actually think that that&#39;s a bad idea,and the reason I think it&#39;s a bad ideais that I don&#39;t think that&#39;s howour concept of religion works.I think the way our concept of religion worksis that we actually have, we have a listof paradigm religionsand their sub-parts, right,and if something new comes alongthat purports to be a religion,what we ask is, &quot;Well, is it like one of these?&quot;Right?And I think that&#39;s not onlyhow we think about religion,and that&#39;s, as it were,so from our point of view,anything on that list had better be a religion,which is why I don&#39;t think an account of religionthat excludes Buddhism and Judaismhas a chance of being a good starter,because they&#39;re on our list.But why do we have such a list?What&#39;s going on? How did it come aboutthat we have this list?
时间： 5:20
zh-cn:我认为，答案是非常简单的，同时也是粗糙且富有争议的。我相信很多人都不会同意我的看法，但是，这是我的故事，无论对错，我认为这个故事都可以给大家一个关于这份清单的来历的好的启发，因为可以帮大家明白这份清单的作用究竟是什么。我认为答案就是，欧洲的探险家们，在大约哥伦布时期开始周游全世界。他们所信仰的某个基督文化，当他们到达一个新地方以后，他们就发现当地的一些人并没有信仰基督教，因而他们问了自己以下的一个问题：如果他们不信基督教，那他们信什么呢？就这样，那份清单一点点建立出来了。它包含了那些不信基督教的人用什么其他信仰来代替基督教。
en:I think the answer is a pretty simple oneand therefore crude and contentious.I&#39;m sure a lot of people will disagree with it,but here&#39;s my story,and true or not, it&#39;s a story that I thinkgives you a good sense of howthe list might have come about,and therefore helps you to think aboutwhat use the list might be.I think the answer is, European travelers,starting roughly about the time of Columbus,started going around the world.They came from a Christian culture,and when they arrived in a new place,they noticed that some peopledidn&#39;t have Christianity,and so they asked themselvesthe following question:what have they got instead of Christianity?And that list was essentially constructed.It consists of the things that other people hadinstead of Christianity.
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:但是，用这种方式继续进行下去面临着一些问题，因为基督教是非常特殊的，即便是在这份清单里，它的传统惯例也是很特别的。基督教里所存在的东西都是非常非常特别的，因为它们都是基督教历史的特定产物。在基督教中处于核心的东西，也就是基督教的核心教义，都是基督教历史的特定产物。这是一个有着极其严重的教条主义的宗教这个宗教的人们真正关心的是你是否信仰正确的东西。基督教的历史，基督教的内部历史，其实大部分讲的都是人们之间的互相残杀，因为他们没有信仰正确的东西。当然，这其中也包括与其他宗教的争端，这些争端明显始于中世纪时期，与伊斯兰教的争端，又是因为无神与有神的争辩，认为他们没有信仰正确的事物这对基督教的世界是一种严重的冒犯。当然，那是基督教非常特别的历史故事，但是，没有任何地方的任何事情是像基督教一样被列到这个清单中的。接下来，我认为还有另一个问题。发生了一件特殊的事情。其实我们前面有提到过这个问题，一件非常特殊的事情发生在基督教的历史中，这个历史是被我们现代美国人所熟知的。这件事情发生在十九世纪后期，这件在十九世纪发生的重要的事就是一个切断与科学之间联系，这是一个管理知识权威（科学）与宗教的新手段。你设想一下十八世纪，如果你设想一下十九世纪以前的知识界，所有你做的事，你想的事，无论它是属于物理界，人类社会，除了人类社会以外的自然界，或者是伦理道德方面，所有你做的事都会被当时的社会背景中的条条框框所限制住，也就是宗教的背景，基督教的背景。你不可能在当时的世界中提出一个观点却又不解释它与宗教、基督教之间的联系，例如，与亚伯拉罕故事中的创世纪，创世纪是犹太律法书的第一卷。所以说，所有事都要按照这个限制展开，
en:Now there&#39;s a difficulty with proceeding in that way,which is that Christianity is extremely,even on that list, it&#39;s an extremely specific tradition.It has all kinds of things in itthat are very, very particularthat are the results of the specificsof Christian history,and one thing that&#39;s at the heart of it,one thing that&#39;s at the heart ofmost understandings of Christianity,which is the result of thespecific history of Christianity,is that it&#39;s an extremely creedal religion.It&#39;s a religion in which people are really concernedabout whether you believe the right things.The history of Christianity, theinternal history of Christianity,is largely the history of people killing each otherbecause they believed the wrong thing,and it&#39;s also involved instruggles with other religions,obviously starting in the Middle Ages,a struggle with Islam,in which, again, it was the infidelity,the fact that they didn&#39;t believe the right things,that seemed so offensive to the Christian world.Now that&#39;s a very specific and particular historythat Christianity has,and not everywhere is everythingthat has ever been put on this sort of list like it.Here&#39;s another problem, I think.A very specific thing happened.It was actually adverted to earlier,but a very specific thing happenedin the history of the kind of Christianitythat we see around usmostly in the United States today,and it happened in the late 19th century,and that specific thing that happenedin the late 19th centurywas a kind of deal that was cutbetween science,this new way of organizing intellectual authority,and religion.If you think about the 18th century, say,if you think about intellectual lifebefore the late 19th century,anything you did, anything you thought about,whether it was the physical world,the human world,the natural world apart from the human world,or morality, anything you didwould have been framed against the backgroundof a set of assumptions that were religious,Christian assumptions.You couldn&#39;t give an accountof the natural worldthat didn&#39;t say something about its relationship,for example, to the creation storyin the Abrahamic tradition,the creation story in the first book of the Torah.So everything was framed in that way.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:但是在十九世纪末期发生的改变，第一次，使人们有可能建立起严谨的知识领域以及出现像达尔文这样的自然历史学家。达尔文担心他所说的话与宗教给人们输入的事实之间的冲突，但是他还是可以继续进行自己的研究，他可以写有关他研究内容的书籍，而不用解释他的研究内容与宗教教义之间的关系，同理，地质学家们也在逐渐的谈论他们的发现。在十九世纪初期，如果你是一个地质学家你发表了关于地球年龄的言论，你需要解释，地球是不是一直存在的，它是如何一直存在或者不存在的，因为在《创世纪》中已经阐述过了地球的年龄。在十九世纪末期，你可以写一些有关地质学的教科书，在里面你可以讨论旧时的地球是什么样的。这是一个非常大的改变，这种分离，这种智慧与劳动力的分离，我认为，在十九世纪末期的欧洲得到了加深。因为那时候出现了真正的智力与劳动力的分离，你可以做各种各样严谨的研究，其中包括各种各样的领域，甚至包括哲学，而且不用被当时的思想所禁锢：“我所说的话必须始终如一的贯穿在宗教传统教义的真理中。”
en:But this changes in the late 19th century,and for the first time, it&#39;s possible for peopleto develop serious intellectual careersas natural historians like Darwin.Darwin worried about the relationship betweenwhat he said and the truths of religion,but he could proceed, he could write booksabout his subjectwithout having to say what the relationship wasto the religious claims,and similarly, geologistsincreasingly could talk about it.In the early 19th century, if you were a geologistand made a claim about the age of the Earth,you had to explain whether that was consistentor how it was or wasn&#39;t consistentwith the age of the Earth impliedby the account in Genesis.By the end of the 19th century,you can just write a geology textbookin which you make argumentsabout how old the Earth is.So there&#39;s a big change, and that division,that intellectual division oflabor occurs as I say, I think,and it sort of solidifies so that by the endof the 19th century in Europe,there&#39;s a real intellectual division of labor,and you can do all sorts of serious things,including, increasingly, even philosophy,without being constrained by the thought,&quot;Well, what I have to say has to be consistentwith the deep truths that are given to meby our religious tradition.&quot;
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:所以 ，大家想象一下如果谁走出了那个世界，也就是十九世纪的末期的那个世界，来到了我长大的地方，加纳，来到了我长大的社会阿桑特进入这个社会以后，来到二十世纪的转折点，带着以下的这些问题：他们用什么信仰代替了基督教？
en:So imagine someone who&#39;s coming outof that world, that late-19th-century world,coming into the country that I grew up in, Ghana,the society that I grew up in, Asante,coming into that worldat the turn of the 20th centurywith this question that made the list:what have they got instead of Christianity?
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:这有一件事是值得我们大家注意的，顺便说一下，真的有人这么做了。他就是拉特雷上尉，他作为英国政府特派的一名人类学家来到了阿桑特，并写了一本有关阿桑特的宗教信仰的书。
en:Well, here&#39;s one thing he would have noticed,and by the way, there was a person who actually did this.His name was Captain Rattray,he was sent as the Britishgovernment anthropologist,and he wrote a book about Asante religion.
时间：10:04
zh-cn:这是一个灵魂唱片，因为阿桑特的的许多东西都保留在大英博物馆里。我可以给大家讲一个有趣而又与众不同的历史故事，关于为什么很多属于我成长的社会的事物最终会被保留在大英博物馆里，但是由于时间的原因我就不给大家讲了。但是，这是一张灵魂唱片。那么什么是灵魂唱片呢？这是阿桑特国王挂在脖子上用来净化灵魂所使用的。他们的工作是什么呢？是净化国王的灵魂。要是解释灵魂怎么会成为一件可以被净化的东西可能要花费很长一段时间，但是，拉特雷认为这就是宗教因为其中有灵魂这个重要因素的参与。
en:This is a soul disc.There are many of them in the British Museum.I could give you an interesting, different historyof how it comes about that many of the thingsfrom my society ended up in the British Museum,but we don&#39;t have time for that.So this object is a soul disc.What is a soul disc?It was worn around the necksof the soul-washers of the Asante king.What was their job? To wash the king&#39;s soul.It would take a long whileto explain how a soul could be the kind of thingthat could be washed,but Rattray knew that this was religionbecause souls were in play.
时间：10:40
zh-cn:与此相似的还有很多其他的事情，其他的事实。例如，每次有人喝酒时，无论是多是少，他们都会倒一点到地上，他们叫这种仪式为奠酒祭神，为的是将酒倒给祖先一些。我的父亲每次打开一瓶新的威士忌时都会这么做，我很高兴的是，他经常会开新的酒喝，他会倒一点点在地上。然后他会说话，他会与我们的祖先Akroma-Ampim说话，或者与我的祖叔叔安东尼·姚说话，他与他们说话，同时给他们倒一些酒。
en:And similarly,there were many other things, many other practices.For example, every time anybodyhad a drink, more or less,they poured a little bit on the groundin what&#39;s called the libation,and they gave some to the ancestors.My father did this. Every timehe opened a bottle of whiskey,which I&#39;m glad to say was very often,he would take the top off andpour off just a little on the ground,and he would talk to,he would say to Akroma-Ampim, the founder of our line,or Yao Antony, my great uncle,he would talk to them,offer them a little bit of this.
时间：11:10
zh-cn:最后，我要说的是一些宏大的公共仪式。这是一幅十九世纪早期由另一位英国军官所画的画，画中主要描述了这样的一个仪式，国王也参与到了这个仪式当中，而且这就是他工作的一部分，也是很大的一部分，他的工作除了组织战争这类事情之外，就是看好祖先的墓地。当国王死后，他所坐的椅子会被涂黑，放到皇家陵庙中。每隔四十天，阿桑特的国王都要去陵庙祭祀祖先。这是他工作中很大的一部分，而且人们认为如果他不这样做，所有的事情都会分崩瓦解。所以，他是一个宗教领袖，就像拉特雷说的那样，他同时也是一个政治领袖。
en:And finally, there were thesehuge public ceremonials.This is an early-19th-century drawingby another British military officerof such a ceremonial,where the king was involved,and the king&#39;s job,one of the large parts of his job,apart from organizing warfare and things like that,was to look after the tombs of his ancestors,and when a king died,the stool that he sat on was blackenedand put in the royal ancestral temple,and every 40 days,the King of Asante has to go and do cultfor his ancestors.That&#39;s a large part of his job,and people think that if he doesn&#39;t do it,things will fall apart.So he&#39;s a religious figure,as Rattray would have said,as well as a political figure.
时间：11:52
zh-cn:这一切对于拉特雷来说都是宗教的一种表现，但是我认为当你看到这的人是如何生活的时候，你也会发现每当他们要做什么事的时候，都会想着他们的祖先。每一顿早餐，你都要来到房子的前面给你的家院子里的尼阿美圣树献上祭品。同时，你也要和神灵们讲话，无论是是位高的神还是位低的神，你都要和他们讲话，也要和祖先们讲话。这不是一个宗教与科学相分离的社会会发生的事情。在这个社会中，只要有生命的存在，就会有宗教的产生。特别要提出的是，对于想要理解这个社会很重要的一点是，这个社会中的工作，也就是本应由科学提供给我们的工作，却是由拉特雷口中的宗教创造的，因为如果他们想要一个事物的解释，如果他们想要知道为什么庄稼收成不好，如果他们想要知道为什么会下雨，或者当他们需要雨时，他们会问为什么还不下雨，如果他们想要知道为什么他们的祖父会死去，他们会用同一种方式寻求答案，用同一种语言寻求助，向同样的神求助。换句话说，这个社会并没有发生宗教与科学之间的巨大分离。
en:So all this would count as religion for Rattray,but my point is that when you lookinto the lives of those people,you also find that every time they do anything,they&#39;re conscious of the ancestors.Every morning at breakfast,you can go outside the front of the houseand make an offering to the god tree, the nyame duaoutside your house,and again, you&#39;ll talk to the godsand the high gods and the low godsand the ancestors and so on.This is not a worldin which the separation between religion and sciencehas occurred.Religion has not being separatedfrom any other areas of life,and in particular,what&#39;s crucial to understand about this worldis that it&#39;s a world in which the jobthat science does for usis done by what Rattray is going to call religion,because if they want an explanation of something,if they want to know why the crop just failed,if they want to know why it&#39;s rainingor not raining, if they need rain,if they want to know whytheir grandfather has died,they are going to appeal to the very same entities,the very same language,talk to the very same gods about that.This great separation, in other words,between religion and science hasn&#39;t happened.
时间：12:58
zh-cn:现在，这也许仅仅是一件历史趣事，但其实上，在世界上绝大一部分地区，这都是事实。有一次，我有幸参加一个在北纳米比亚举行的婚礼，这是在英格拉边界向南20英里处的一个居住着200人的小村庄。这些都是现代人。和我们在一起的一个人叫奥娜·卓别林，也许在座的各位中也许有人听过她的名字，村庄中的一个找到了她，和她说，“我看到过你在《权利游戏》中的表演。”所以说，这些人不是过着与世隔绝的生活，但是，对于他们来说，神灵和精神仍然是他们生活中非常重要的部分。当我们乘坐公共汽车在各种活动中来来回回的时候，我们发现，他们并不是笼统的祷告一些事，而是专门祈祷旅途安全，而且他们是很认真的，当他们和我说，我的母亲，也就是新郎的“祖母”，和我们在一起，他们不是指一个象征的意义，他们是真心的觉得即便她过世了，但是她还在他们身边。所以，在当今世界的大多数地方，宗教和科学的分离并没有发生。就像我说的，这些人并不是——这个人曾经在大通银行和世界银行工作过。他们是与你我一样的世界公民，只不过他们所生活的地方宗教所扮演的角色和我们不同。
en:Now, this would be a mere historical curiosity,except that in large parts of the world,this is still the truth.I had the privilege of going to a weddingthe other day in northern Namibia,20 miles or so south of the Angolan borderin a village of 200 people.These were modern people.We had with us Oona Chaplin,who some of you may have heard of,and one of the people fromthis village came up to her,and said, &quot;I&#39;ve seen you in &#39;Game of Thrones.&#39;&quot;So these were not people whowere isolated from our world,but nevertheless, for them,the gods and the spirits are still very much there,and when we were on the bus going back and forthto the various parts of the [ceremony],they prayed not just in a generic waybut for the safety of the journey,and they meant it,and when they said to me that my mother,the bridegroom&#39;s [grandmother],was with us, they didn&#39;t mean it figuratively.They meant, even though she was a dead person,they meant that she was still around.So in large parts of the world today,that separation between science and religionhasn&#39;t occurred in large parts of the world today,and as I say, these are not —This guy used to work for Chase and at the World Bank.These are fellow citizens of the world with you,but they come from a place in which religionis occupying a very different role.
时间：14:16
zh-cn:所以我希望在下次有人试着将不同宗教看成同一类东西时，大家可以思考一下，也许宗教并不存在，没有宗教这种东西，所以他们说的那些话都不可能是事实。
en:So what I want you to think aboutnext time somebody wantsto make some vast generalization about religionis that maybe there isn&#39;t such a thingas a religion, such a thing as religion,and that therefore what they saycannot possibly be true.
时间：14:31
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
