时间： 0:11
zh-cn:（鼓掌）我今天要谈谈网民们自己创造的资源我要讲三个故事来阐明一个论点它会大概告诉你们如何在用户生成内容中发掘商机那么，现在是第一个故事。
en:(Applause)I want to talk to you a little bit about user-generated content.I&#39;m going to tell you three stories on the way to one argumentthat&#39;s going to tell you a little bitabout how we open user-generated content up for business.So, here&#39;s the first story.
时间： 0:27
zh-cn:一九零六年。这个人，作曲家约翰·菲利普·苏萨，来到这个地方，美国国会大厦，为了一项新技术，一个他称为“说话机器” 的东西。苏萨可不是说话机器爱好者。以下是他的看法。“这些说话机器将会毁掉音乐艺术在这个国家的任何发展前途。当我还是个孩子时，每当夏夜，每间房子前面就会看到年轻人在一起唱着流行歌曲，或者是老歌。而今一天到晚听见的都是这些恶魔似的机器。我们全部都会失去声带，”苏萨说。我们的声带会在进化的过程中被淘汰就像我们从猿进化为人时丢掉尾巴一样
en:1906. This man, John Philip Sousa, traveled to this place,the United States Capitol, to talk about this technology,what he called the, quote, &quot;talking machines.&quot;Sousa was not a fan of the talking machines.This is what he had to say.&quot;These talking machines are going to ruin artistic developmentof music in this country.When I was a boy, in front of every house in the summer evenings,you would find young people togethersinging the songs of the day, or the old songs.Today, you hear these infernal machines going night and day.We will not have a vocal chord left,&quot; Sousa said.&quot;The vocal chords will be eliminated by a process of evolutionas was the tail of man when he came from the ape.&quot;
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:现在，我要你们仔细看看这幅图这是一幅我们文化的写照我们可以用现代电脑术语来形容它称其为一种“读写文化”。这种文化让人们参与它的创造和再创造。是双向的，所以叫“读写文化”苏萨就是害怕我们会失去创造力因为有了那些“说话机器”， 它们会把创造力剥夺取而代之的是与“读写文化”相反的，一个种“只读”的文化一个消费着创造力可消费者不是生产者的文化。一个自上而下的，被私人占有的文化人们遗失了声带，万马齐喑的文化
en:Now, this is the picture I want you to focus on.This is a picture of culture.We could describe it using modern computer terminologyas a kind of read-write culture.It&#39;s a culture where people participate in the creationand the re-creation of their culture. In that sense, it&#39;s read-write.Sousa&#39;s fear was that we would lose that capacitybecause of these, quote, &quot;infernal machines.&quot; They would take it away.And in its place, we&#39;d have the opposite of read-write culture,what we could call read-only culture.Culture where creativity was consumedbut the consumer is not a creator.A culture which is top-down, owned,where the vocal chords of the millions have been lost.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:看看过去的20世纪至少在我们所谓的“发达国家”里很难否认苏萨是对的人类文化史上前所未见的专业化与集中化人民大众的创造力从来没有那么有效地被丢在一边而被丢掉的原因就是这些“说话的机器”在20世纪里至少，对于那些我们最清楚的地方文化已经从“读写”状态进入了可怜的“只读”形式
en:Now, as you look back at the twentieth century,at least in what we think of as the, quote, &quot;developed world&quot; —hard not to conclude that Sousa was right.Never before in the history of human culturehad it been as professionalized, never before as concentrated.Never before has creativity of the millionsbeen as effectively displaced,and displaced because of these, quote, &quot;infernal machines.&quot;The twentieth century was that centurywhere, at least for those places we know the best,culture moved from this read-write to read-only existence.
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:第二个故事。土地是一种产业一种被法律保护的产业正如Blackstone勋爵所说，法律禁止非法侵入土地而在反侵入土地法的历史上，大多数时候我们认为它保护地表以下无限深和上面无限高的范围那是一个相当好的系统在人类管理土地的历史上一直适用直到一种科技的到来，使大家开始想这些东西到底是不是非法侵犯者它们没得到批准就飞越私人土地飞越土地上的农场1945年，最高法院有机会处理这个问题
en:So, second. Land is a kind of property —it is property. It&#39;s protected by law.As Lord Blackstone described it, land is protected by trespass law,for most of the history of trespass law,by presuming it protects the land all the way down belowand to an indefinite extent upward.Now, that was a pretty good systemfor most of the history of the regulation of land,until this technology came along, and people began to wonder,were these instruments trespassersas they flew over land without clearing the rightsof the farms below as they traveled across the country?Well, in 1945, Supreme Court got a chance to address that question.
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:两个养鸡的农夫，Thomas Lee和Tinie Cosby为了这些科技发明，而向有关当局投诉了。他们投诉说他们养的鸡老是跟着飞机飞的方向跑当飞机飞过土地时鸡群就一头栽在谷仓的墙上于是他们就向Blackstone勋爵请愿告那些飞机非法侵入古往今来法律都规定你不能在未经许可的情况下过境所以，这样的飞行要立刻停止最高法院考虑了这个百年之久的法律传统然后在由Douglass法官撰写的法院意见中说原告败诉了最高法院说保护土地到地表上面无穷高的原则，在现代世界并不适用否则每一班洲际航线都得让飞行员吃到数不清的非法侵入官司常识，法律界里多稀罕的东西啊，可是这里就有常识（笑）常识压倒了传统观念
en:Two farmers, Thomas Lee and Tinie Causby, who raised chickens,had a significant complaint because of these technologies.The complaint was that theirchickens followed the pattern of the airplanesand flew themselves into the walls of the barnwhen the airplanes flew over the land.And so they appealed to Lord Blackstoneto say these airplanes were trespassing.Since time immemorial, the law had said,you can&#39;t fly over the land without permission of the landowner,so this flight must stop.Well, the Supreme Court considered this 100-years traditionand said, in an opinion written by Justice Douglas,that the Causbys must lose.The Supreme Court said the doctrine protecting landall the way to the sky has no place in the modern world,otherwise every transcontinental flight wouldsubject the operator to countless trespass suits.Common sense, a rare idea in the law, but here it was. Common sense —(Laughter) —Revolts at the idea. Common sense.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:最后。在互联网出现之前内容产业蒙受的最大灾难是广播技术造成的一种全新的传播内容的方式于是乎就引来了一场的新的传播内容商机的争夺战当时那个控制着大多数音乐播放权的合乎法律的垄断组织也是广播技术的使用者-是美国作曲家，作者与出版商协会（ASCAP）联合体他们对大多数流行内容有独家掌控权而且他们也处处极力显示让广播公司明白谁才是老板于是1931年到1939年间他们把版权费拉高了448%直到广播公司终于联合起来说好了，我们受够了1939年，Sydney Kaye,一位律师，创建了音乐广播公司，就是大名鼎鼎的BMIBMI对待艺术的态度更加民主在曲库里第一次收录了第一次收录了非洲裔美国人的音乐可是最终要的是BMI把流行领域的作品改编之后免费献给订购客户。这样以来，到了1940年当垄断的ASCAP扬言要把版费翻番大多数广播公司转投了BMI当时ASCAP说没什么大不了的他们认为广播听众最后会不乐意的，因为最好的音乐不再播放了，因为他们被迫得听BMI改编后的次品当然，听众最终没什么意见。而1941年，ASCAP就认输了这里重要的是要认识到尽管广播公司们没有原汁原味的音乐，只能退而求其次当时却已经足够在竞争中打破法定联合体对音乐使用权的垄断
en:Finally. Before the Internet, the last great terrorto rain down on the content industrywas a terror created by this technology. Broadcasting:a new way to spread content,and therefore a new battle over the controlof the businesses that would spread content.Now, at that time, the entity,the legal cartel, that controlled the performance rightsfor most of the music that would be broadcastusing these technologies was ASCAP.They had an exclusive license on the most popular content,and they exercised it in a way that tried to demonstrateto the broadcasters who really was in charge.So, between 1931 and 1939, they raised rates by some 448 percent,until the broadcasters finally got togetherand said, okay, enough of this.And in 1939, a lawyer, Sydney Kaye, started somethingcalled Broadcast Music Inc. We know it as BMI.And BMI was much more democratic in the artthat it would include within its repertoire,including African American music for the first time in the repertoire.But most important was that BMI took public domain worksand made arrangements of them, which they gave away for freeto their subscribers. So that in 1940,when ASCAP threatened to double their rates,the majority of broadcasters switched to BMI.Now, ASCAP said they didn&#39;t care.The people will revolt, they predicted, because the very best musicwas no longer available, because they had shiftedto the second best public domain provided by BMI.Well, they didn&#39;t revolt, and in 1941, ASCAP cracked.And the important point to recognizeis that even though these broadcasterswere broadcasting something you would call second best,that competition was enough to break, at that time,this legal cartel over access to music.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:三个故事讲完，现在是论点我认为这其中最显著的一点牵涉到互联网的作用就是它提供了复苏苏萨曾经大加渲染的”读写“文化的良机数字技术是一个找回丢失声带的机会这正是苏萨在国会前慷慨陈词时心中想要的网络用户生成内容， 在商业中传播通过像这样极为宝贵的方式传扬业余爱好者文化我所指的不是质量上业余的文化我说的是一种人们为爱好而不是为钱所创造的文化就是你们的孩子整天都在创造的文化当你们想想苏萨说到曾经年轻人聚在一起唱着流行歌曲或是老歌，你应该能发现苏萨所为之倾倒的其实与你们孩子正做的事情别无二致：把流行歌曲和以前的歌放在一块儿混搭一下变成不一样的东西这就是他们对如何投身这一文化的理解我们且看几个例子好理解我所说的这些
en:Okay. Three stories. Here&#39;s the argument.In my view, the most significant thing to recognizeabout what this Internet is doingis its opportunity to revive the read-write culturethat Sousa romanticized.Digital technology is the opportunityfor the revival of these vocal chordsthat he spoke so passionately to Congress about.User-generated content, spreading in businessesin extraordinarily valuable ways like these,celebrating amateur culture.By which I don&#39;t mean amateurish culture,I mean culture where people producefor the love of what they&#39;re doing and not for the money.I mean the culture that your kids are producing all the time.For when you think of what Sousa romanticizedin the young people together, singing the songs of the day,of the old songs, you should recognizewhat your kids are doing right now.Taking the songs of the day and the old songsand remixing them to make them something different.It&#39;s how they understand access to this culture.So, let&#39;s have some very few examplesto get a sense of what I&#39;m talking about here.
时间： 8:29
zh-cn:这是动漫MTV，第一个例子从电视里截下来的动漫片段被剪辑与音乐对应♫这个你应该—有信心。耶稣会活下来的。别担心(♫音乐是Gloria Gaynor的《我会活下来》）（笑声）这个是最棒的（♫音乐是Lionel Ritchie和Diana Ross的名曲《无尽的爱》）我的爱人...此生只有你...唯一的光明我的初恋你是我每口呼吸每个足迹而我与你共享爱情谁也无法夺去你的眼睛流露着关爱的心♫这个就是混搭（鼓掌）我们要强调的是这个不是什么—这个不是我们所说的”盗版“我既不是在说，更谈不上去为之辩护那种把别人的东西全部拿来未经许可就到处散播的行为我讲的是人们用别人创造的内容进行娱乐，通过数码技术处理表达不一样的内涵这里重要的不是你所看到的制作技巧因为你们看到的每一个处理电视电影人们50年前就能做了重要的是这些技术已经在社会上普及了现在任何一个拥有一台电脑的人都可以我们身边的文化中采集声象用以表情达意这些创造力的工具已经成为了表达工具是这一代人的语言，不会等同文盲是他们的思维方式，是他们的生存状态他们越来越了解数字技术以及它与他们自身的关系
en:Here&#39;s something called Anime Music Video, first example,taking anime captured from televisionre-edited to music tracks.(Music)This one you should be — confidence. Jesus survives. Don&#39;t worry.(Music)(Laughter)And this is the best.(Music)My love ...There&#39;s only you in my life ...The only thing that&#39;s bright ...My first love ...You&#39;re every breath that I take ...You&#39;re every step I make ...And I ....I want to share all my love with you ...No one else will do ...And your eyes ...They tell me how much you care ...(Music)So, this is remix, right?(Applause)And it&#39;s important to emphasize that what this is notis not what we call, quote, &quot;piracy.&quot;I&#39;m not talking about nor justifyingpeople taking other people&#39;s content in wholesaleand distributing it without the permission of the copyright owner.I&#39;m talking about people taking and recreatingusing other people&#39;s content, using digital technologiesto say things differently.Now, the importance of thisis not the technique that you&#39;ve seen here.Because, of course, every technique that you&#39;ve seen hereis something that television and film producershave been able to do for the last 50 years.The importance is that that technique has been democratized.It is now anybody with access to a $1,500 computerwho can take sounds and images from the culture around usand use it to say things differently.These tools of creativity have become tools of speech.It is a literacy for this generation. This is how our kids speak.It is how our kids think. It is what your kids areas they increasingly understand digital technologiesand their relationship to themselves.
时间：12:49
zh-cn:但是，在这个依赖数字技术成长的新文化的问题上法律并没有以很好的常识接纳苏萨的提议反而，版权法的建构和数码技术的建构在互相切磋之后，产生了一个结论:这些 活动是非法的因为如果版权法管制着翻版的行为在数码世界中我们无可回避的事实就是文化的每一次使用都产生一个副本每一次重新使用就都需要征得同意未经许可你就是违法侵入者你和这些家伙一样都是违法侵入者可是我们的常识尚未开始反抗法律的这一僵死的态度为网民创造力的牺牲鸣不平而我们看到的是比反抗更危险的东西：冲突双方都陷入了极端主义的怪圈在这次争端中法律和新兴技术互不相让
en:Now, in response to this new use of culture using digital technologies,the law has not greeted this Sousa revivalwith very much common sense.Instead, the architecture of copyright lawand the architecture of digital technologies,as they interact, have produced the presumptionthat these activities are illegal.Because if copyright law at its core regulates something called copies,then in the digital world the one fact we can&#39;t escapeis that every single use of culture produces a copy.Every single use therefore requires permission;without permission, you are a trespasser.You&#39;re a trespasser with about as much senseas these people were trespassers.Common sense here, though, has not yet revoltedin response to this response that the law has offeredto these forms of creativity.Instead, what we&#39;ve seenis something much worse than a revolt.There&#39;s a growing extremism that comes from both sidesin this debate, in response to this conflictbetween the law and the use of these technologies.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:一方产生像最近公布的那种技术能自动从Youtube那样的网站下载任何流媒体文件，其中一定包含着某些版权内容—而对任何适用于这些内容的针对滥用的评判标准不管不顾从另一方面，在我们的孩子们中间蔓延着”版权废奴主义”的呼声这样的一代人，坚决摒弃版权法设立的动机初衷，摒弃版权封闭认为版权法只是个不合时宜的愚蠢障碍有机会要完全忽视或公然推倒一方的极端主义会使另一方效仿这是我们早该认清不知道多少次的事实这一冲突中的两个极端都是错误的而我所要争取的一个平衡点—我，就像任何一个称职的自由派会做的两眼盯着政府去要。大错特错！对吗？（笑声）
en:One side builds new technologies, such as one recently announcedthat will enable themto automatically take down from sites like YouTubeany content that has any copyrighted content in it,whether or not there&#39;s a judgment of fair usethat might be applied to the use of that content.And on the other side, among our kids,there&#39;s a growing copyright abolitionism,a generation that rejects the very notionof what copyright is supposed to do, rejects copyrightand believes that the law is nothing more than an assto be ignored and to be fought at every opportunity possible.The extremism on one side begets extremism on the other,a fact we should have learned many, many times over,and both extremes in this debate are just wrong.Now, the balance that I try to fight for,I, as any good liberal, try to fight for firstby looking to the government. Total mistake, right?(Laughter)
时间：15:05
zh-cn:要先盯着法院和立法机构，先和他们谈上做些改变让这个系统更讲道理这么做还是不行。原因一部分是法院的消极态度一部分是立法机关痼疾缠身我的意思不是他们被银子买了得阻止任何实质性变革而是说指挥着国会日常运作的“影响力经济”在捣鬼政策制定者直到事情无可救药、无可置辩才能弄清楚是怎么一回事所以我们要的是一种不同的解决方案而这一方案是民间的，私人的一个尝试着去把年轻心态重新合法化的方案一个从中发掘经济潜能的方案这就是值得借鉴BMI故事的当儿因为正如BMI所显示出的，竞争可以产生某种平衡。同样的事情现在也能发生我们现在不能利用像广播那样的全免费公共媒介因而我们需要的是两项改变
en:Looked first to the courts and the legislatures to try to get themto do something to make the system make more sense.It failed partly because the courts are too passive,partly because the legislatures are corrupted,by which I don&#39;t mean that there&#39;s briberyoperating to stop real change,but more the economy of influence that governs how Congress functionsmeans that policymakers here will not understand thisuntil it&#39;s too late to fix it.So, we need something different, we need a different kind of solution.And the solution here, in my view, is a private solution,a solution that looks to legalize what it is to be young again,and to realize the economic potential of that,and that&#39;s where the story of BMI becomes relevant.Because, as BMI demonstrated, competition herecan achieve some form of balance. The same thing can happen now.We don&#39;t have a public domain to draw upon now,so instead what we need is two types of changes.
时间：16:04
zh-cn:首先，艺术家和创作人开始接受降低价格，扩大作品覆盖面的主张打个比方，他们可以说自己的作品对于非盈利性，爱好者类的使用免费但是对商业使用收费第二，我们需要基于这一“读写”文化的商业项目公开地把握这个机会，给它助推力这样为免费，或者较便宜的内容资源提供一个中立的大生态它们得以共存较便宜的和较不便宜的能够竞争而在这场竞争中发挥创造力的机会可以让竞争的一方学到另一方的经验
en:First, that artists and creators embrace the idea,choose that their work be made available more freely.So, for example, they can say their work is available freelyfor non-commercial, this amateur-type of use,but not freely for any commercial use.And second, we need the businessesthat are building out this read-write cultureto embrace this opportunity expressly, to enable it,so that this ecology of free content, or freer content,can grow on a neutral platformwhere they both exist simultaneously,so that more-free can compete with less-free,and the opportunity to develop the creativity in that competitioncan teach one the lessons of the other.
时间：16:52
zh-cn:我本该说说一个像这样的具体计划我对它有所了解但是不想触动TED针对推销产品的禁令所以我就不说了我只是想再提醒大家BMI给我们上的一课艺术家的意见对我们的新技术转化为商机至关重要我们得培养艺术家们的这种观念如果媒体编辑、传播的新技术想要有前景不过我想用我认为更加重要的东西作结比商机重要得多事关我们的孩子们我们得承认他们跟我们很不同。这是我们，对吧？（笑声）我们制造混音磁带，他们直接混搭音乐我们看电视，他们制作电视
en:Now, I would talk about one particular such planthat I know something about,but I don&#39;t want to violate TED&#39;s first commandment of selling,so I&#39;m not going to talk about this at all.I&#39;m instead just going to remind you of the point that BMI teaches us.That artist choice is the key for new technologyhaving an opportunity to be open for business,and we need to build artist choice hereif these new technologies are to have that opportunity.But let me end with something I think much more important —much more important than business.It&#39;s the point about how this connects to our kids.We have to recognize they&#39;re different from us. This is us, right?(Laughter)We made mixed tapes; they remix music.We watched TV; they make TV.
时间：17:42
zh-cn:是科技让他们不同当我们看到数码科技的厉害之后我们感觉无法根除科技带来的一种新的天性；我们只能给它定罪我们无法不让孩子们使用它只能把它逼到地下去我们不能把孩子们再变成被动的文化接受者我们就把他们变成“盗版用户”。这样明智吗？我们生活在一个禁令满天飞的奇怪时代在生活的许多方面我们随时随地违反着无效、疲软的法规普通人生活中惯常违法我们对孩子们施加着一种影响力他们知道自己生活中有法律就是障碍这种想法一传十十传百危害特别大在一个民主社会中我们应该比这做得好我们必须改变现状，就算不谈生意的话，至少为了孩子们，多谢各位。（鼓掌）
en:It is technology that has made them different,and as we see what this technology can do,we need to recognize you can&#39;t killthe instinct the technology produces. We can only criminalize it.We can&#39;t stop our kids from using it.We can only drive it underground.We can&#39;t make our kids passive again.We can only make them, quote, &quot;pirates.&quot; And is that good?We live in this weird time. It&#39;s kind of age of prohibitions,where in many areas of our life,we live life constantly against the law.Ordinary people live life against the law,and that&#39;s what I — we are doing to our kids.They live life knowing they live it against the law.That realization is extraordinarily corrosive,extraordinarily corrupting.And in a democracy, we ought to be able to do better.Do better, at least for them, if not for opening for business.Thank you very much.(Applause)
