时间： 0:11
zh-cn:几年前，我母亲得了类风湿性关节炎。她肿起的手腕，膝盖，和脚趾让她长久以来痛苦不堪。她不得不去申请残障证。她不再去我们当地的清真寺参加活动。有些早晨她甚至疼得无法刷牙。我想帮助她，但却感到束手无策。我并不是医生。
en:A few years ago,my mom developed rheumatoid arthritis.Her wrists, knees and toes swelled up,causing crippling, chronic pain.She had to file for disability.She stopped attending our local mosque.Some mornings it was too painfulfor her to brush her teeth.I wanted to help.But I didn&#39;t know how.I&#39;m not a doctor.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:我只是一个医药历史学者。于是我开始研究慢性疼痛的历史。我发现加州大学洛杉矶分校的档案里收藏了关于疼痛的完整历史记录。从中我找到了一则奇妙的故事——关于一个男人如何将数百万人从疼痛中拯救出来的故事；那些和我母亲一样的人。然而，我从来没有听说过他。没有关于他的传记，或好莱坞电影。他名叫约翰 J. 博尼卡，不过在这个故事刚开始的时候，他常常被人称作约翰尼 “斗牛士” 沃克。
en:So, what I am is a historian of medicine.So I started to researchthe history of chronic pain.Turns out, UCLA has an entirehistory of pain collectionin their archives.And I found a story —a fantastic story —of a man who saved — rescued —millions of people from pain;people like my mom.Yet, I had never heard of him.There were no biographiesof him, no Hollywood movies.His name was John J. Bonica.But when our story begins,he was better known asJohnny &quot;Bull&quot; Walker.
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:那是1941年的一个夏日。一个马戏团刚刚来到纽约的布鲁克菲尔德镇上。观众蜂拥而至来看走钢丝表演和小丑——如果运气够好，还能看到人体炮弹。他们还想见见大力士约翰尼 “斗牛士” 沃克，只花1块钱，就可以跟他一较高下。可在那一天，马戏团的广播中传来了一个声音。他们在动物蓬急需一名医生。驯兽师出事了。他在表演进行到最精彩的时候发生了意外，他的头卡在了狮子嘴里。他快要窒息了；观众惊恐地看着他。他挣扎了一阵，昏了过去。当狮子终于张开嘴巴的时候，驯兽师瘫倒在地上，一动不动。几分钟后，当他醒来，他看到了一张熟悉的面孔。那是“斗牛士“沃克。这位大力士通过人工呼吸挽救了驯兽师的生命。
en:It was a summer day in 1941.The circus had just arrivedin the tiny town of Brookfield, New York.Spectators flocked to seethe wire-walkers, the tramp clowns —if they were lucky, the human cannonball.They also came to see the strongman,Johnny &quot;Bull&quot; Walker,a brawny bully who&#39;d pin you for a dollar.You know, on that particular day,a voice rang outover the circus P.A. system.They needed a doctor urgently,in the live animal tent.Something had gone wrongwith the lion tamer.The climax of his act had gone wrong,and his head was stuckinside the lion&#39;s mouth.He was running out of air;the crowd watched in horroras he struggled and then passed out.When the lion finally did relax its jaws,the lion tamer just slumpedto the ground, motionless.When he came to a few minutes later,he saw a familiar figure hunched over him.It was Bull Walker.The strongman had given the lion tamermouth-to-mouth, and saved his life.
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:大力士从没有跟任何人提起过，他其实是医学院的三年级学生。他通过暑假跟着马戏团巡游来赚钱付学费，却为了维护角色形象而绝口不提此事。他想让大家认为自己是一位土霸，恶棍——而不是勤奋好学的书呆子。他在医学院的同事也不知道他的秘密。正如他所说，“如果你是个运动员，理所应当就是个笨蛋。”因此他没有透露任何关于马戏团，以及在傍晚和周末参加职业摔跤的事情。他用艺名“斗牛士”沃克，后来还用过“蒙面奇侠”。即便在他得到世界摔跤轻重量级冠军的那一年，他仍然保守着这个秘密。
en:Now, the strongman hadn&#39;t told anyone,but he was actuallya third-year medical student.He toured with the circusduring summers to pay tuition,but kept it a secretto protect his persona.He was supposed to bea brute, a villain —not a nerdy do-gooder.His medical colleagues didn&#39;tknow his secret, either.As he put it, &quot;If you werean athlete, you were a dumb dodo.&quot;So he didn&#39;t tell them about the circus,or about how he wrestled professionallyon evenings and weekends.He used a pseudonym like Bull Walker,or later, the Masked Marvel.He even kept it a secret that same year,when he was crownedthe Light Heavyweight Championof the world.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:约翰 J 博尼卡过了数年这样的双面生活。他是摔跤手；也是医生。他是混蛋，也是英雄。他给别人带来痛苦，也能治疗疼痛。他当时还不知道，在未来的五十年里，他会利用这两个不同的角色来创造一个对待疼痛的全新观念。这种观念将为现代医学带来巨大的改变,多年后，时代杂志会称其为“止痛之父”。但那都是后话了。
en:Over the years, John J. Bonicalived these parallel lives.He was a wrestler;he was a doctor.He was a heel;he was a hero.He inflicted pain,and he treated it.And he didn’t know it at the time,but over the next five decades,he&#39;d draw on these dueling identitiesto forge a whole new wayto think about pain.It&#39;d change modern medicineso much so, that decades later,Time magazine would call himpain relief&#39;s founding father.But that all happened later.
时间： 4:11
zh-cn:1942年，博尼卡从医学院毕业，迎娶了艾玛,他们几年前在他的一场比赛中相识。他仍然偷偷地从事职业摔跤——他别无选择。因为他在纽约圣文森特医院实习期间没有任何收入。带着他的冠军金腰带，他不断参加大型的摔跤比赛，像在麦迪逊广场花园，面对的都是大牌对手，比如埃弗里特 “金发熊” 马歇尔，或是荣获三次世界冠军的安杰洛 萨沃尔迪。
en:In 1942, Bonica graduatedmedical school and married Emma,his sweetheart, whom he had metat one of his matches years before.He still wrestled in secret — he had to.His internship at New York&#39;sSt. Vincent&#39;s Hospital paid nothing.With his championship belt,he wrestled in big-ticket venues,like Madison Square Garden,against big-time opponents,like Everett &quot;The Blonde Bear&quot; Marshall,or three-time world champion,Angelo Savoldi.
时间： 4:45
zh-cn:摔跤比赛严重地影响了他的身体状况；他损伤过腰关节，断过肋骨。一天晚上，“凶悍土耳其人” 的大脚指在他脸上划出了一道像卡彭（美国著名罪犯，绰号“疤面”）一样的伤疤。第二天早晨去上班时，他只能带着医用口罩来遮掩伤势。有两次，博尼卡出现在护士室的时候，一只眼睛是青肿的，完全看不见东西。然而最糟糕的还是他那破损的菜花耳。他说感觉就像头旁边挂了两个棒球。生活中的疼痛始终有增无减。
en:The matches took a toll on his body;he tore hip joints, fractured ribs.One night, The Terrible Turk&#39;s big toescratched a scar like Capone&#39;sdown the side of his face.The next morning at work,he had to wear a surgical mask to hide it.Twice Bonica showed up to the O.R.with one eye so bruised,he couldn&#39;t see out of it.But worst of all werehis mangled cauliflower ears.He said they felt like two baseballson the sides of his head.Pain just kept accumulating in his life.
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:接着，他看着老婆在自己的医院分娩。她挣扎着，明显承受着巨大的痛苦。产科医生叫来了值班的实习生，要给她几滴醚来缓解疼痛。但那位实习生很年轻，才实习了三个星期——他战战兢兢地进行麻醉时，不小心刺激到了艾玛的喉咙。她开始呕吐，呼吸困难，面色开始发青。在一旁看着的博尼卡把实习生推开，清理了她的呼吸道，拯救了自己的妻子和未出生女儿的命。从那一刻起，他决定致力于麻醉科。后来，他甚至为帮助分娩的母亲而发明了硬膜外麻醉术。但在他可以完全转行妇产科之前，博尼卡必须完成他的基本培训。
en:Next, he watched his wife gointo labor at his hospital.She heaved and pushed, clearly in anguish.Her obstetrician calledout to the intern on dutyto give her a few drops of etherto ease her pain.But the intern was a young guy,just three weeks on the job —he was jittery, and in applying the ether,irritated Emma&#39;s throat.She vomited and choked,and started to turn blue.Bonica, who was watching all this,pushed the intern out of the way,cleared her airway,and saved his wifeand his unborn daughter.At that moment, he decidedto devote his life to anesthesiology.Later, he&#39;d even go on to help developthe epidural, for delivering mothers.But before he could focus on obstetrics,Bonica had to report for basic training.
时间： 6:21
zh-cn:在诺曼底登陆日前后，博尼卡出现在了塔科马附近的马迪根陆军医疗中心。那是美国最大的军事医院之一，有7700张病床。那里所有的止痛工作都由博尼卡负责。他当时只有二十七岁。接触过大量病人以后，博尼卡开始注意到，一些案例完全有悖于之前所学的知识。疼痛本应该是一种有益的警钟，是身体在受伤的情况下发出信号的一种方式，例如骨折的时候。但在某些案例里，比如一个病人刚做了腿部截肢后，可能还会感觉到本不该存在的腿部疼痛。如果伤口已经被处理过了，怎么还会警钟长鸣呢？有些案例里没有任何受伤的迹象，但是，这些病人仍然很痛苦。
en:Right around D-Day,Bonica showed upto Madigan Army Medical Center,near Tacoma.At 7,700 beds, it was one of the largestarmy hospitals in America.Bonica was in chargeof all pain control there.He was only 27.Treating so many patients,Bonica started noticing casesthat contradicted everythinghe had learned.Pain was supposed to bea kind of alarm bell — in a good way —a body&#39;s way of signaling an injury,like a broken arm.But in some cases,like after a patient had a leg amputated,that patient might still complainof pain in that nonexistent leg.But if the injury had been treated, whywould the alarm bell keep ringing?There were other cases in which therewas no evidence of an injury whatsoever,and yet, still the patient hurt.
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:博尼卡跟踪观察了医院里的所有医生——外科医生，神经科医生，精神病医生，等等。他想问一下这些医生对他的病人的看法。为了节省时间，他开始在午餐时间组织会议。其间很多专业人士会一起讨论病人的疼痛症状。之前从来没有人如此重视过疼痛。
en:Bonica tracked down all the specialistsat his hospital — surgeons,neurologists, psychiatrists, others.And he tried to gettheir opinions on his patients.It took too long, so he started organizinggroup meetings over lunch.It would be like a tag team of specialistsgoing up against the patient&#39;s pain.No one had ever focused on painthis way before.
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:在这之后，他开始查阅资料。他读了所有能拿到的医学资料，仔细标记了所有提到“疼痛”二字的地方。在他读过的14000页内容中，“疼痛”只在十七页半中出现。十七页半。这是作为一个病人最基本，最常见，却也最令人无奈的地方。博尼卡被震惊了——他的原话是这么说的，他说，“就这点信息，你能得出什么结论呢？在病人眼中最重要的事情，他们（医生）从来不在乎。“
en:After that, he hit the books.He read every medical textbookhe could get his hands on,carefully noting every mentionof the word &quot;pain.&quot;Out of the 14,000 pages he read,the word &quot;pain&quot; wason 17 and a half of them.Seventeen and a half.For the most basic, most common,most frustrating part of being a patient.Bonica was shocked — I&#39;m quoting him,he said, &quot;What the hell kind of conclusioncan you come to there?The most important thingfrom the patient&#39;s perspective,they don&#39;t talk about.&quot;
时间： 8:22
zh-cn:在接下来的八年里，博尼卡对此重视起来。他写了关于疼痛的书；他要补全那些缺失的内容。他写了后来被人誉为“疼痛圣经”的书。在书中他提出的了新的方法，用神经抑制注射来缓解疼痛。他提倡建立一个新的机构，“疼痛诊所”，这个想法来源于之前的午餐会议。但是关于这本书最重要的事情是，它是一个医学警钟。一个希望医生能够更加关注病人疼痛症状的迫切意愿。他重新定义了医学的宗旨。目标并不仅仅是让病人康复，而是减少病人在这个过程中遭受的痛苦。他几十年来一直在推行自己的疼痛计划，直到70年代中期。那时候，已有几百家疼痛诊所在世界各地开放。
en:So over the next eight years,Bonica would talk about it.He&#39;d write about it; he&#39;d writethose missing pages.He wrote what would later be knownas the Bible of Pain.In it he proposed new strategies,new treatments usingnerve-block injections.He proposed a new institution,the Pain Clinic,based on those lunchtime meetings.But the most important thingabout his bookwas that it was kind of an emotionalalarm bell for medicine.A desperate plea to doctorsto take pain seriouslyin patients&#39; lives.He recast the very purpose of medicine.The goal wasn&#39;t to make patients better;it was to make patients feel better.He pushed his pain agenda for decades,before it finally took holdin the mid-&#39;70s.Hundreds of pain clinics sprung upall over the world.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:但是，一个悲伤的转折出现了，博尼卡数年摔跤生涯的后果显露出来了。他已经20多年不摔跤了，但1500名职业摔交手还是在他身上留下了难以磨灭印记。50多岁的时候，他就备受骨关节炎的折磨。在接下来的20多年里，他经历了22个手术，包括4个脊椎手术，一次又一次的髋骨替换。他几乎不能抬起手臂或者转头。他需要铝支架来帮助他行走。他的朋友和校友成了他的医生。一个医生说，他也许经历过比这个星球上任何其他人都要多的神经抑制注射。他已经是一个工作狂了，却还要变本加厉——每天工作15-18个小时。治愈别人对他来说不仅仅是工作，对他自己来说也是一种解脱。他曾跟一位记者这么说，“如果我没有这么忙，我可能早就是个残废了。”
en:But as they did — a tragic twist.Bonica&#39;s years of wrestlingcaught up to him.He had been out of the ringfor over 20 years,but those 1,500 professional boutshad left a mark on his body.Still in his mid-50s, he sufferedsevere osteoarthritis.Over the next 20 yearshe&#39;d have 22 surgeries,including four spine operations,and hip replacement after hip replacement.He could barely raisehis arm, turn his neck.He needed aluminum crutches to walk.His friends and former studentsbecame his doctors.One recalled that he probablyhad more nerve-block injectionsthan anyone else on the planet.Already a workaholic,he worked even more —15- to 18-hour days.Healing others became morethan just his job,it was his own most effectiveform of relief.&quot;If I wasn&#39;t as busy as I am,&quot;he told a reporter at the time,&quot;I would be a completely disabled guy.&quot;
时间：10:38
zh-cn:1980年初，在去弗罗里达出差的路上，博尼卡让一位校友把他送到坦帕的海德公园。他们穿过许多棕榈树，在一所老别墅前停下，车库里藏着巨大的银色榴弹加农炮。这房子属于萨奇尼家族，一个类似美国皇家马戏团的家族。几十年前，博尼卡曾见过他们穿着银色的表演服和护目镜，进行着他们的拿手表演：人肉炮弹。但是他们现在跟他一样：退休了。那一代人已经逝去了，包括博尼卡，所以没有人知道当时他们说了些什么。但是我依然忍不住要去想象。“大力士”和“人肉炮弹”重聚了，展示彼此的旧伤新疤。也许博尼卡会给他们医疗建议。也许他会把之后在口述历史中的内容告诉他们，那段在马戏团摔跤的时光造就了他现在的人生。
en:On a business trip to Floridain the early 1980s,Bonica got a former student to drivehim to the Hyde Park area in Tampa.They drove past palm treesand pulled up to an old mansion,with giant silver howitzer cannonshidden in the garage.The house belonged to the Zacchini family,who were something likeAmerican circus royalty.Decades earlier, Bonica had watched them,clad in silver jumpsuits and goggles,doing the act they pioneered —the Human Cannonball.But now they were like him: retired.That generation is all deadnow, including Bonica,so there&#39;s no way to know exactlywhat they said that day.But still, I love imagining it.The strongman and the humancannonballs reunited,showing off old scars, and new ones.Maybe Bonica gave them medical advice.Maybe he told them what he latersaid in an oral history,which is that his time in the circusand wrestling deeply molded his life.
时间：11:52
zh-cn:博尼卡近距离接触过疼痛。感受着伴随着他一生的疼痛。而这使他无法无视别人的痛苦。出于那种同情，他推动了一个新的领域，为研制针对缓解疼痛的药物做出了巨大贡献。
en:Bonica saw pain close up.He felt it. He lived it.And it made it impossiblefor him to ignore in others.Out of that empathy, he spuna whole new field,played a major role in gettingmedicine to acknowledge painin and of itself.
时间：12:13
zh-cn:在同一段口述历史中，博尼卡认为，疼痛是人类最复杂的经历。它包含了你过去的生活，你现在的生活，你的社会关系，你的家人。这一点对博尼卡而言毋庸置疑。
en:In that same oral history,Bonica claimed that painis the most complex human experience.That it involves your past life,your current life,your interactions, your family.That was definitely true for Bonica.
时间：12:33
zh-cn:但同样也适用于我的母亲。医生们可以轻而易举地把我妈妈当成老病号来看待，她整天整天地呆在诊所的等候室。有时候我也不禁会这样想。但当我看到博尼卡的痛苦——作为他传奇一生的见证——我想起了我母亲所遭受的一切痛苦。在她的手指患上关节炎，肿到无法工作之前，她一直在医院的人力资源部忙碌着。她用一双手为整个清真寺折过印度咖喱角。当我还是孩子的时候，这双手为我剪过头发，为我擦过鼻子，还帮我系过鞋带。
en:But it was also true for my mom.It&#39;s easy for doctors to see my momas a kind of professional patient,a woman who just spends her daysin waiting rooms.Sometimes I get stuck seeing herthat same way.But as I saw Bonica&#39;s pain —a testament to his fully lived life —I started to remember all the thingsthat my mom&#39;s pain holds.Before they got swollen and arthritic,my mom&#39;s fingers clacked awayin the hospital H.R. departmentwhere she worked.They folded samosas for our entire mosque.When I was a kid, they cut my hair,wiped my nose,tied my shoes.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：13:42
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
