时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是一位海洋化学家。我研究现代海洋的化学特性。我也研究古代海洋的化学特性。我研究古代海洋的方式，是借助深海珊瑚的化石遗体。各位可以在我的背后看到这样一张图片。这是在南极洲附近，海平面以下的数千米处采集的。所以这些珊瑚跟其它种类非常不同，比如说你去热带度假的时候有幸见到的一些。
en:Well, I&#39;m an ocean chemist.I look at the chemistryof the ocean today.I look at the chemistryof the ocean in the past.The way I look back in the pastis by using the fossilized remainsof deepwater corals.You can see an image of oneof these corals behind me.It was collected from close to Antarctica,thousands of meters below the sea,so, very differentthan the kinds of coralsyou may have been lucky enough to seeif you&#39;ve had a tropical holiday.
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:我希望我的演讲能够为大家呈现一幅四维的海洋图像。其中的两个维度，正如这个漂亮的平面图，描述了海平面的温度。这张照片是卫星拍摄的，所以有着极高的空间分辨率。照片的大致内容是相当容易理解的。赤道地区比较温暖，因为接受的日照很多。极地比较寒冷，因为接受的日照较少。所以这就让南极洲的土地上生成了巨大的冰盖，同样还有北半球的顶部。如果你深潜入大海里，或者只是让脚趾头碰到海水，你就会知道越深处越寒冷，这主要是因为，填充海底沟壑的深海海水是来自寒冷的极地地区，而那里的水密度更大。
en:So I&#39;m hoping that this talk will give youa four-dimensional view of the ocean.Two dimensions, such as thisbeautiful two-dimensional imageof the sea surface temperature.This was taken using satellite,so it&#39;s got tremendous spatial resolution.The overall features are extremelyeasy to understand.The equatorial regions are warmbecause there&#39;s more sunlight.The polar regions are coldbecause there&#39;s less sunlight.And that allows big icecapsto build up on Antarcticaand up in the Northern Hemisphere.If you plunge deep into the sea,or even put your toes in the sea,you know it gets colder as you go down,and that&#39;s mostly because the deep watersthat fill the abyss of the oceancome from the cold polar regionswhere the waters are dense.
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:如果我们让时光倒流两万年，整个地球看上去非常不同。我刚刚给你们看的是其中一个巨大变化的漫画示意图，那个时代的景象就像这样。冰盖要比现在大很多。它们覆盖了大面积的陆地，而且延展到各大洋。海平面比现在低了120米。二氧化碳[水平]比现在要低很多。地球上的平均气温比现在大概要低3到5摄氏度，而且在极地地区要更加寒冷。
en:If we travel back in time20,000 years ago,the earth looked very much different.And I&#39;ve just given you a cartoon versionof one of the major differencesyou would have seenif you went back that long.The icecaps were much bigger.They covered lots of the continent,and they extended out over the ocean.Sea level was 120 meters lower.Carbon dioxide [levels] were verymuch lower than they are today.So the earth was probably about threeto five degrees colder overall,and much, much colderin the polar regions.
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:我想要研究清楚的东西，也是我的同事们想要弄明白的东西，就是我们如何从那种极端寒冷的气候转变成现在我们所享受的这种温暖气候的。对冰芯的研究告诉我们，从寒冷气候到温暖气候的转变并不是非常平缓的，你们可以通过太阳辐射的缓慢增加中推测出来。我们可以得出这种结论，是因为如果你在冰盖上钻孔，你可以发现按年份分层的冰，就像这幅冰山的图片里。你可以看到那些蓝白相间的条纹。气体被封闭在这些冰芯里，所以我们可以据此测定二氧化碳。所以我们得知以前的二氧化碳水平比现在要低。冰的化学组成同样可以告诉我们极地地区的气温信息。如果你从两万年前穿越到现代，你会发现气温出现了增长。它不是平缓地增长的。有时候气温上升得非常迅速，然后就稳定一段时间，之后再次迅速上升。气温在两极地区有些差异，而且二氧化碳水平也以这种跳跃方式增长。
en:What I&#39;m trying to understand,and what other colleagues of mineare trying to understand,is how we moved from thatcold climate conditionto the warm climate conditionthat we enjoy today.We know from ice core researchthat the transition from thesecold conditions to warm conditionswasn&#39;t smooth, as you might predictfrom the slow increase in solar radiation.And we know this from ice cores,because if you drill down into ice,you find annual bands of ice,and you can see this in the iceberg.You can see those blue-white layers.Gases are trapped in the ice cores,so we can measure CO2 —that&#39;s why we know CO2was lower in the past —and the chemistry of the icealso tells us about temperaturein the polar regions.And if you move in timefrom 20,000 years ago to the modern day,you see that temperature increased.It didn&#39;t increase smoothly.Sometimes it increased very rapidly,then there was a plateau,then it increased rapidly.It was different in the two polar regions,and CO2 also increased in jumps.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:于是我们可以确定，海洋与这些变化有着密切联系。海洋里储存着大量的碳元素，比大气中的储量多了大约60倍。海洋还有的作用，就是跨赤道地区输送热量，而且海洋里富含养分，还提供了极高的初级产能。
en:So we&#39;re pretty sure the oceanhas a lot to do with this.The ocean stores huge amounts of carbon,about 60 times morethan is in the atmosphere.It also acts to transport heatacross the equator,and the ocean is full of nutrientsand it controls primary productivity.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:如果我们想要研究深海世界里发生了什么，我们真的需要潜入其中，看看那里有什么，并且开始努力探索。这是采自海底山峰的一些精彩镜头，这个山峰位于赤道地区的公海，而且远离大陆，大概在大西洋底1,000米深处。你们是最先欣赏到这个地区的海底的一群人，跟我的研究团队差不多。你们可能看到的是一些新物种。然而我们并不了解。你得采集很多样本，然后做非常繁琐的生物学分类。你可以看到这些美丽的泡泡糖珊瑚。柔软的海星长在这些珊瑚上。它们看起来就像珊瑚上延伸出的触手一样。这些珊瑚由不同形式的碳酸钙组成，在这个巨大的海底山峰的玄武岩上茁壮生长，那些颜色很黑的东西，就是变成化石的珊瑚，让我们回到过去，更仔细聊聊这些珊瑚的故事。
en:So if we want to find outwhat&#39;s going on down in the deep sea,we really need to get down there,see what&#39;s thereand start to explore.This is some spectacular footagecoming from a seamountabout a kilometer deepin international watersin the equatorial Atlantic, far from land.You&#39;re amongst the first peopleto see this bit of the seafloor,along with my research team.You&#39;re probably seeing new species.We don&#39;t know.You&#39;d have to collect the samplesand do some very intense taxonomy.You can see beautiful bubblegum corals.There are brittle starsgrowing on these corals.Those are things that looklike tentacles coming out of corals.There are corals made of different formsof calcium carbonategrowing off the basalt of thismassive undersea mountain,and the dark sort of stuff,those are fossilized corals,and we&#39;re going to talka little more about thoseas we travel back in time.
时间： 3:50
zh-cn:要做时光旅行，我们得租一条考察船，这是詹姆斯·库克号，一艘大洋级的调查船，停泊在特纳里夫港口。看上去很棒，对吧？如果你不是个很好的海员，你会觉得不错的。但是有时她看起来更像这样。我们正在努力保证珍贵的样品不丢失。每个人都手忙脚乱，然后我也严重晕船，所以说这不全是有趣的经历，但是总体还是不错的。
en:To do that, we needto charter a research boat.This is the James Cook,an ocean-class research vesselmoored up in Tenerife.Looks beautiful, right?Great, if you&#39;re not a great mariner.Sometimes it looksa little more like this.This is us trying to make surethat we don&#39;t lose precious samples.Everyone&#39;s scurrying around,and I get terribly seasick,so it&#39;s not always a lot of fun,but overall it is.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:我们必须要成为很好的测绘师才能做这个工作。你不可能在处处都找到如此丰富的珊瑚储量。我们得走遍世界、潜入深海寻找，但是我们必须得找到正确的地方。我们刚刚看到一个世界地图，上面重叠着我们去年的航线。那是一个为期七周的航程，这就是我们自己做的地图，在七周时间里，我们描绘了大约75,000平方公里的海底地图，但那也只是整个海底的微小部分。我们自西向东航行，穿过的一些海域，在世界地图上没有任何特征可言，但是这里的一些山峰其实可以跟珠穆朗玛峰相提并论。我们在船上制作的地图，大概有100米左右的分辨率，这已经足够让我们选定地址放置测绘仪器，但是想要看得更清楚就不是很够。为了使图像更清晰，我们要操纵遥控的深潜器，到距离海底5米左右的深处。如果我们这么做，我们可以得到海平面以下数千米处分辨率小至1米的高清图像。这就是一台遥控深潜器，科研级别的深潜器。你可以在它顶部看到一排大灯。上面还有高清摄影机、操纵臂，还有各种小盒子、小零件来收集海底样本。
en:So we&#39;ve got to becomea really good mapper to do this.You don&#39;t see that kind of spectacularcoral abundance everywhere.It is global and it is deep,but we need to really findthe right places.We just saw a global map,and overlaid was our cruise passagefrom last year.This was a seven-week cruise,and this is us, having made our own mapsof about 75,000 square kilometersof the seafloor in seven weeks,but that&#39;s only a tiny fractionof the seafloor.We&#39;re traveling from west to east,over part of the ocean that wouldlook featureless on a big-scale map,but actually some of these mountainsare as big as Everest.So with the maps that we make on board,we get about 100-meter resolution,enough to pick out areasto deploy our equipment,but not enough to see very much.To do that, we need to flyremotely-operated vehiclesabout five meters off the seafloor.And if we do that, we can get mapsthat are one-meter resolutiondown thousands of meters.Here is a remotely-operated vehicle,a research-grade vehicle.You can see an arrayof big lights on the top.There are high-definition cameras,manipulator arms,and lots of little boxes and thingsto put your samples.
时间： 5:20
zh-cn:这是我们航程的第一次深潜，机器潜到大洋深处。我们让它尽快下潜，使它不会受其它过往船只的影响。我们不断下潜，这就是你们可以看到的东西。这些是大小达到数米的深海海绵。这是个游动的海参——其实是一个小的海底蛞蝓。这些是慢镜头。我展示的大部分视频资料都是加速播放的，因为这些过程都耗时很长。这也是一个漂亮的海参。接下来你们看到的这个动物是一个很大的惊喜。我从来没见过任何类似的东西，这让我们所有人都震惊了。我们已经连续工作了15个小时，都累得很不耐烦了，突然这个巨大的海怪缓缓从我们旁边游过。它叫做“火体虫”，或者说是一种寄生性尾索动物。这可不是我们要找的东西。我们在搜寻珊瑚，深海里的珊瑚。你们过一会儿就会看到一张珊瑚的照片。它很小，只有5厘米高。它是由碳酸钙构成的，你们可以看到它的触手，在洋流之中摆动。像这样的有机体一般可以存活100年。在它生长过程中，它从海洋中吸收化学成分。这些化学成分，或是说化学成分的量，取决于海水温度，还有pH值，以及水中的养分。如果我们可以理解这些化学成分如何进入生物骨架，我们就可以采集样本、回溯历史，重现古代海洋的图景。现在你们可以看到我们在用抽真空系统收集那个珊瑚样本，然后把样本放在容器里。我应该补充一下，我们可以做得非常仔细。
en:Here we are on our first diveof this particular cruise,plunging down into the ocean.We go pretty fast to make surethe remotely operated vehiclesare not affected by any other ships.And we go down,and these are the kinds of things you see.These are deep sea sponges, meter scale.This is a swimming holothurian —it&#39;s a small sea slug, basically.This is slowed down.Most of the footage I&#39;m showingyou is speeded up,because all of this takes a lot of time.This is a beautiful holothurian as well.And this animal you&#39;re going to seecoming up was a big surprise.I&#39;ve never seen anything like thisand it took us all a bit surprised.This was after about 15 hours of workand we were all a bit trigger-happy,and suddenly this giantsea monster started rolling past.It&#39;s called a pyrosomeor colonial tunicate, if you like.This wasn&#39;t what we were looking for.We were looking for corals,deep sea corals.You&#39;re going to see a pictureof one in a moment.It&#39;s small, about five centimeters high.It&#39;s made of calcium carbonate,so you can see its tentacles there,moving in the ocean currents.An organism like this probably livesfor about a hundred years.And as it grows, it takes inchemicals from the ocean.And the chemicals,or the amount of chemicals,depends on the temperature;it depends on the pH,it depends on the nutrients.And if we can understand howthese chemicals get into the skeleton,we can then go back,collect fossil specimens,and reconstruct what the oceanused to look like in the past.And here you can see us collectingthat coral with a vacuum system,and we put it into a sampling container.We can do this verycarefully, I should add.
时间： 6:54
zh-cn:这类有机体有些可以活得更长。这是一种名叫“黑树”的黑角珊瑚，在夏威夷海域500米深处找到，照片是由我的同事布兰登·洛克拍摄的。四千年可是很长的时间啊。如果你从这种珊瑚中摘取一段枝条，然后把它打磨，这张图横向大约有100微米宽。布兰登对这个珊瑚做了横切分析，你们可以看到横向的标记，他由此证明了这其实是珊瑚的年轮，所以说即使在海平面以下500米深处，珊瑚可以记录季节的更替，这其实是挺惊人的。
en:Some of these organisms live even longer.This is a black coral called Leiopathes,an image taken by my colleague,Brendan Roark, about 500meters below Hawaii.Four thousand years is a long time.If you take a branch from oneof these corals and polish it up,this is about 100 microns across.And Brendan took some analysesacross this coral —you can see the marks —and he&#39;s been able to showthat these are actual annual bands,so even at 500 meters deep in the ocean,corals can record seasonal changes,which is pretty spectacular.
时间： 7:25
zh-cn:然而四千年不足以让我们回到最后一个冰川极盛期。那么我们怎么办呢？我们潜入海中寻找化石样本。其实这就是为什么我在研究团队里特别不受人欢迎。所以潜到海底，到处都是巨大的鲨鱼，还有火体虫、游动的海蛞蝓，以及巨大的海绵，但是我要求每个人都潜到这死气沉沉的化石区，然后花很长的时间在海底铲来铲去。我们拾取所有的珊瑚样本，把它们带回来，然后做分类。但是每一个样本都来自不同的时代，如果我们可以知道它们有多古老，然后我们去测定其中的化学信号，这就可以帮助我们研究出古代海洋中发生了怎样的事。
en:But 4,000 years is not enough to getus back to our last glacial maximum.So what do we do?We go in for these fossil specimens.This is what makes me really unpopularwith my research team.So going along,there&#39;s giant sharks everywhere,there are pyrosomes,there are swimming holothurians,there&#39;s giant sponges,but I make everyone go downto these dead fossil areasand spend ages kind of shovelingaround on the seafloor.And we pick up all these corals,bring them back, we sort them out.But each one of these is a different age,and if we can find out how old they areand then we can measurethose chemical signals,this helps us to find outwhat&#39;s been going onin the ocean in the past.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:请看左侧的照片，我对珊瑚做了一份纵切片，很仔细地打磨，之后拍摄了光学影像。在右侧的照片中，我们提取了同一片珊瑚，将它放进核反应堆，诱发核裂变反应，每一次都会产生一些衰减，你可以在珊瑚中看到一些标记，我们可以据此判断铀元素的分布情况。我们为什么要这么做呢？铀是一种很不被重视的元素，但是我非常喜欢它。这种衰减帮助我们研究出海洋中何时发生了何事，某种成分有多大的量。如果你们还记得我开头所讲的，这就是我们思考气候问题时想要进一步研究的东西。所以我们用激光去分析铀元素，以及珊瑚中所含的，铀的副产物钍元素，由此我们得知这些化石的精确年龄。
en:So on the left-hand image here,I&#39;ve taken a slice through a coral,polished it very carefullyand taken an optical image.On the right-hand side,we&#39;ve taken that same piece of coral,put it in a nuclear reactor,induced fission,and every time there&#39;s some decay,you can see that marked out in the coral,so we can see the uranium distribution.Why are we doing this?Uranium is a very poorly regarded element,but I love it.The decay helps us find outabout the rates and datesof what&#39;s going on in the ocean.And if you remember from the beginning,that&#39;s what we want to get atwhen we&#39;re thinking about climate.So we use a laser to analyze uraniumand one of its daughter products,thorium, in these corals,and that tells us exactlyhow old the fossils are.
时间： 8:43
zh-cn:这个漂亮的南极洋动画，展现了我们如何利用这些珊瑚来提取古代海洋的反馈信息。这个由莱恩·阿伯纳西制作的动画中，你们可以看到表面海水的密度分布。这只是一年的数据，但是各位已经可以看出南极洋非常动态的变化。尤其是方框中的德雷克海峡，这里洋流交汇非常强烈，其实是世界上最强的洋流之一。洋流从西到东穿过海峡。洋流在此处汹涌地交汇，因为它经过了那些巨大的海底山峰，这就让二氧化碳和热量与大气进行交换。本质上，海洋系统通过南极洋进行“呼吸”作用。我们在这个南极的海峡来回穿行，采集珊瑚样本，从我的铀元素年代测定结果，我们得到了很惊人的结论：从冰期到间冰期的过渡期，这些珊瑚从南方迁移到了北方。我们并不知道为什么，但是我们认为这与食物来源有一些关联，或者是海水中的氧气含量。
en:This beautiful animationof the Southern OceanI&#39;m just going to use illustratehow we&#39;re using these coralsto get at some of the ancientocean feedbacks.You can see the densityof the surface waterin this animation by Ryan Abernathey.It&#39;s just one year of data,but you can see how dynamicthe Southern Ocean is.The intense mixing,particularly the Drake Passage,which is shown by the box,is really one of the strongestcurrents in the worldcoming through here,flowing from west to east.It&#39;s very turbulently mixed,because it&#39;s moving over thosegreat big undersea mountains,and this allows CO2 and heat to exchangewith the atmosphere in and out.And essentially, the oceans are breathingthrough the Southern Ocean.We&#39;ve collected corals from back and forthacross this Antarctic passage,and we&#39;ve found quite a surprising thingfrom my uranium dating:the corals migrated from south to northduring this transition from the glacialto the interglacial.We don&#39;t really know why,but we think it&#39;s somethingto do with the food sourceand maybe the oxygen in the water.
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:所以讲到这儿，我接下来要展示，我们从南极洋的珊瑚中得出的有关气候的结论。我们在海底山脉中游走，我们采集了细小的珊瑚化石。这是我的图解。在分析了珊瑚之后，我们认为，在冰川期时，南极洋的深处碳元素非常丰富，并且一层低密度海水浮在大洋表面。这就阻止了二氧化碳从海洋中逸出。我们之后发现了一些中等年龄的珊瑚，它们告诉我们，洋流的激烈交汇发生在气候过渡期的中段。这让深海中的碳元素得以逸出。那么如果我们研究更接近现代的珊瑚，或者我们干脆马上就潜到海里，然后研究珊瑚的化学成分，我们可以看到现在是二氧化碳进行进出交换的时代。所以这就是我们利用珊瑚化石来研究环境变化的方法。
en:So here we are.I&#39;m going to illustrate what I thinkwe&#39;ve found about climatefrom those corals in the Southern Ocean.We went up and down sea mountains.We collected little fossil corals.This is my illustration of that.We think back in the glacial,from the analysiswe&#39;ve made in the corals,that the deep part of the Southern Oceanwas very rich in carbon,and there was a low-densitylayer sitting on top.That stops carbon dioxidecoming out of the ocean.We then found coralsthat are of an intermediate age,and they show us that the ocean mixedpartway through that climate transition.That allows carbon to comeout of the deep ocean.And then if we analyze coralscloser to the modern day,or indeed if we go down there today anywayand measure the chemistry of the corals,we see that we move to a positionwhere carbon can exchange in and out.So this is the waywe can use fossil coralsto help us learn about the environment.
时间：10:40
zh-cn:那么我给大家展示最后一张幻灯片。这是从最开始我播放的视频中截取的一张图片。这是一个异常美丽的珊瑚花园。我们根本没有想象到会发现如此之美的东西。这里有数千米深。这里有全新的物种。这就是一个美丽的圣地。这其中有很多化石，现在我教会大家去欣赏这些化石珊瑚，沉睡在海底深处。
en:So I want to leave youwith this last slide.It&#39;s just a still taken out of that firstpiece of footage that I showed you.This is a spectacular coral garden.We didn&#39;t even expectto find things this beautiful.It&#39;s thousands of meters deep.There are new species.It&#39;s just a beautiful place.There are fossils in amongst,and now I&#39;ve trained youto appreciate the fossil coralsthat are down there.
时间：11:02
zh-cn:所以说下一次当你有幸飞过大洋时，或者是航行在海洋之上，请各位记得——海底世界有崇山峻岭，无人领略过它的壮美，海底世界还有美丽的珊瑚。
en:So next time you&#39;re lucky enoughto fly over the oceanor sail over the ocean,just think — there are massivesea mountains down therethat nobody&#39;s ever seen before,and there are beautiful corals.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:谢谢各位。
en:Thank you.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
