时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想说的是继这些非凡的演讲和广泛传播的想法之后我真的处于一个尴尬的境地因为今天我要讲的是电视几乎每个人都看电视我们喜欢看电视 至少它的一部分在美国，人们热爱电视普通美国人每天看5个小时的电视是吧？我恰好是靠电视吃饭的所以对我来说，是个好事但很多人并不太喜欢它实际上，痛斥电视他们称之为愚蠢肯定还有更难听的我的母亲，在我成长过程中叫它“傻子盒子”
en:I want to say that really and truly,after these incredible speechesand ideas that are being spread,I am in the awkward positionof being here to talk to you todayabout television.So most everyone watches TV.We like it. We like some parts of it.Here in America, people actually love TV.The average American watches TVfor almost 5 hours a day.Okay?Now I happen to make my living these days in television,so for me, that&#39;s a good thing.But a lot of people don&#39;t love it so much.They, in fact, berate it.They call it stupid,and worse, believe me.My mother, growing up,she called it the &quot;idiot box.&quot;
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:但我今天不是要辩论电视的损益之处我今天是向告诉诸位电视是有良知的为什么我相信电视有良知因为我相信电视直接地反映了国民在道德，政治社会和情绪上的需要因为电视是我们传播整个价值体系的方法所以人类具有的一切特质都组成了我们对良知的理解
en:But my idea today is not to debatewhether there&#39;s such a thing as good TV or bad TV;my idea todayis to tell you that I believetelevision has a conscience.So why I believe that television has a conscienceis that I actually believethat television directly reflectsthe moral, political,social and emotional need states of our nation —that television is how we actually disseminateour entire value system.So all these things are uniquely human,and they all add upto our idea of conscience.
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:今天，我们不是讨论电视好坏我们谈的是流行电视50年间在尼尔森排行前十的电视节目尼尔森排行是如何反映你所闻也就是社会性的集体潜意识同时这些50年间在尼尔森排行前十的电视节目是如何反映了我们的社会良知？电视又是如何与时俱进怎样反映了社会现实？
en:Now today, we&#39;re not talking about good and bad TV.We&#39;re talking about popular TV.We&#39;re talking about top-10 Nielsen-rated showsover the course of 50 years.How do these Nielsen ratingsreflect not just what you&#39;ve heard about,which is the idea of our social, collective unconscious,but how do these top-10 Nielsen-rated showsover 50 yearsreflect the ideaof our social conscience?How does television evolve over time,and what does this say about our society?
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:说到演化从生物学来说，你大概想到动物世界，包括人类具有四种基本本能饥饿，性欲，权利和获取欲望作为人类，重要的是我们在漫长时间中演化能够驾驭这些本能我们可以笑和哭我们感受敬畏和同情这讲我们和动物区别开来人类的另一特性是我们热衷于娱乐我们喜欢看电视这也是区别于动物的动物也许喜欢玩耍但他们不喜欢观看
en:Now speaking of evolution,from basic biology, you probably rememberthat the animal kingdom, including humans,have four basic primal instincts.You have hunger; you have sex; you have power;and you have the urge for acquisitiveness.As humans, what&#39;s important to rememberis that we&#39;ve developed, we&#39;ve evolved over timeto temper, or tame,these basic animal instincts.We have the capacity to laugh and cry.We feel awe, we feel pity.That is separate and apartfrom the animal kingdom.The other thing about human beingsis that we love to be entertained.We love to watch TV.This is something that clearly separates usfrom the animal kingdom.Animals might love to play,but they don&#39;t love to watch.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:所以我试图探索这种电视节目和人类良知间的独特关系能给我们什么启示为什么电视娱乐以它的方式发展？我想像它像卡通版的天使和魔鬼一样坐在我们肩膀上电视是不是真的如同我们的良知诱惑我们的同时奖励我们？
en:So I had an ambitionto discover what could be understoodfrom this uniquely human relationshipbetween television programsand the human conscious.Why has television entertainment evolved the way it has?I kind of think of itas this cartoon devil or angelsitting on our shoulders.Is television literally functioningas our conscience,tempting us and rewarding us at the same time?
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:为解答这个问题我们做了一个研究从50年前开始1959/1960的收视旺季每一年我们调查尼尔森排行前20个电视节目——是从一千个电视节目里挑出来的我们向三千余名几乎是三千六百名——18到70岁的观众征询他们的情绪上的感受他们对观看这每一个电视节目的感受如何？有觉得一种道德的不确定吗？有觉得愤怒吗？笑了吗？对你意义何在？所以对全球的TED观众我想说这是个美国标本但是这些感情需求是共通的另外一个实事是超过百分之八十的美国流行电视节目出口到全世界所以我真心希望全球观众能有同感
en:So to begin to answer these questions,we did a research study.We went back 50 yearsto the 1959/1960 television season.We surveyed the top-20 Nielsen showsevery year for 50 years —a thousand shows.We talked to over 3,000 individuals —almost 3,600 —aged 18 to 70,and we asked them how they felt emotionally.How did you feelwatching every single one of these shows?Did you feel a sense of moral ambiguity?Did you feel outrage? Did you laugh?What did this mean for you?So to our global TED audiences,I want to say that this was a U.S. sample.But as you can see,these emotional need states are truly universal.And on a factual basis,over 80 percent of the U.S.&#39;s most popular showsare exported around the world.So I really hope our global audiencescan relate.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:在展示数据前首先要感谢两个人：一位启发了我去思考良知这个问题以及良知是如何影响我们的日常生活谢谢传奇牧师，杰克･斯特恩另外关于公布数据方法我得谢谢TED社区的明星汉斯･罗斯林你们也许刚刚见过
en:Two acknowledgmentsbefore our first data slide:For inspiring meto even think about the idea of conscienceand the tricks that conscience can play on us on a daily basis,I thank legendary rabbi, Jack Stern.And for the way in which I&#39;m going to present the data,I want to thank TED community superstar Hans Rosling,who you may have just seen.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:好，我们开始吧这里看到的就是从1960年到2010年50年的研究我们从两点着手－启发性和道德不确定性为此我们定义启发性为电视节目提升我们使我们更积极面对世界道德不确定性是指那些我不明白是非分界的电视节目你看到1960年开端启发性比较稳定那是我们看电视的原因道德不确定性开始爬升六十年代末道德不确定性在上升启发性则在衰落为什么古巴导弹危机，肯尼迪总统遇刺美国民权运动种族暴动，越战马丁·路德·金遇刺，鲍勃･肯尼迪遇刺水门事件看看有什么变化70年代，启发性下滑道德不确定性上升二者交叉而过但罗纳德･里根，最上镜的总统上任试图纠正但是看，不行艾滋病，伊朗门更严重的灾难，切尔诺贝利核事故道德不确定性成为电视的主导模因从1990年开始持续了20年
en:Okay, here we go.So here you see,from 1960 to 2010,the 50 years of our study.Two things we&#39;re going to start with —the inspiration state and the moral ambiguity state,which, for this purpose,we defined inspirationas television shows that uplift me,that make me feel much more positive about the world.Moral ambiguity are televisions showsin which I don&#39;t understandthe difference between right and wrong.As we start, you see in 1960inspiration is holding steady.That&#39;s what we&#39;re watching TV for.Moral ambiguity starts to climb.Right at the end of the 60s,moral ambiguity is going up,inspiration is kind of on the wane.Why?The Cuban Missile Crisis, JFK is shot,the Civil Rights movement,race riots, the Vietnam War,MLK is shot, Bobby Kennedy is shot,Watergate.Look what happens.In 1970, inspiration plummets.Moral ambiguity takes off.They cross,but Ronald Reagan, a telegenic president, is in office.It&#39;s trying to recover.But look, it can&#39;t:AIDS, Iran-Contra,the Challenger disaster, Chernobyl.Moral ambiguity becomes the dominant meme in televisionfrom 1990 for the next 20 years.
时间： 6:05
zh-cn:再来看看这个这个图表将要展现的是非常相似的趋势但在这个表上，有舒适性－红点社会评论以及不敬是蓝点和绿点这个时候的电视上可以看到《大淘金》，别忘了《荒野大镖客》（均为西部片）还有安迪·格里菲斯国内的电视节目都令人愉快舒适性在上升，在主导地位不敬呈上升趋势社会评论突然激增看看1969年的情况舒适性，不敬和社会评论同时占据社会当时有两大电视节目－《荒野大镖客》和《傻子派尔》－在1969年是分别排行第二和第三的电视节目第一是什么呢？藐视社会的嬉皮士节目《鲁旺和马丁搞笑集》他们都同时存在观众对此反映强烈
en:Take a look at this.This chart is going to document a very similar trend.But in this case, we have comfort — the bubble in red —social commentary and irreverencein blue and green.Now this time on TVyou have &quot;Bonanza,&quot; don&#39;t forget, you have &quot;Gunsmoke,&quot;you have &quot;Andy Griffith,&quot;you have domestic shows all about comfort.This is rising. Comfort stays whole.Irreverence starts to rise.Social commentary is all of a sudden spiking up.You get to 1969, and look what happens.You have comfort, irreverence, and social commentary,not only battling it out in our society,but you literally have two establishment shows —&quot;Gunsmoke&quot; and &quot;Gomer Pyle&quot; —in 1969 are the number-two- and number-three-rated television shows.What&#39;s number one?The socially irreverent hippie show,&quot;Rowan and Martin&#39;s Laugh-In.&quot;They&#39;re all living together, right.Viewers had responded dramatically.
时间： 7:05
zh-cn:看看1966年的这个对于一个人气节目的反应突起当你听到这个行业术语，突破这意味着什么？意味着1966年收视旺季里《窒息兄弟》横空出世这是第一个电视剧让观众惊叹“天哪我能通过电视对越战还有总统执政评论？”这就是我所说的突破
en:Look at this green spike in 1966to a bellwether show.When you guys hear this industry term, a breakout hit,what does that mean?It means in the 1966 television season,The &quot;Smothers Brothers&quot; came out of nowhere.This was the first showthat allowed viewers to say,&quot;My God,I can comment on how I feel about the Vietnam War,about the presidency, through television?&quot;That&#39;s what we mean by a breakout show.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:最后一部分1970年如溃堤一般舒适性不再是我们看电视的原因社会评论和不敬在70年代不断上升看看这个70年代的代表人物是谁？诺曼･李尔有《全家福》，《桑福德和儿子》和人气剧－整个70年代稳居前十的《风流医生俏护士》在我们研究过的50年的电视节目中七成高居不敬的分类榜单的节目开播于越战期间前十里有5个是出现于尼克松执政期只是短短一代人时间，20年我们发现哇！电视能做到这些？能让我们感受到这些？它能改变我们？对于这群聪明人我也想指出数码时代并没有颠覆时代40年前亚奇･邦克连同我们被推下了安乐椅
en:So then, just like the last chart, look what happens.In 1970,the dam bursts. The dam bursts.Comfort is no longer why we watch television.Social commentary and irreverencerise throughout the 70s.Now look at this.The 70s means who? Norman Lear.You have &quot;All in the Family,&quot; &quot;Sanford and Son,&quot;and the dominant show —in the top-10 for the entire 70s —&quot;MAS*H.&quot;In the entire 50 yearsof television that we studied,seven of 10 showsranked most highly for irreverenceappeared on air during the Vietnam War,five of the top-10 during the Nixon administration.Only one generation, 20 years in,and we discovered,Wow! TV can do that?It can make me feel this?It can change us?So to this very, very savvy crowd,I also want to notethe digital folks did not invent disruptive.Archie Bunker was shoved out of his easy chairalong with the rest of us40 years ago.
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:这个图表比较精简 这是另一个要素幻想和想像它被定义为“逃离平庸日常生活”和“让我感觉更美好”这个标记跟红点，即失业率相对失业率是单纯从劳动部获得的数据可以看到每次幻想／想像的节目增加与失业率的上升相对应我们想看节目里人们省吃俭用还是无业状态吗？不 70年代有热门剧《无敌女金刚》1973年这个剧升到前十的榜单跟在后面的是《无敌金刚》和《女探俏娇娃》另一个增长是在80年代这个增长是关于控制和权利的节目的增加是什么电视剧呢？关于荣誉和财富的《达拉斯》《梦幻岛》（这些剧）与一个冷硬的现实共同标记了国民的精神状态：这个现实就是失业率
en:This is a quick chart. Here&#39;s another attribute:fantasy and imagination,which are shows defined as,&quot;takes me out of my everyday realm&quot;and &quot;makes me feel better.&quot;That&#39;s mapped against the red dot, unemployment,which is a simple Bureau of Labor Department statistic.You&#39;ll seethat every time fantasy and imagination shows rise,it maps to a spike in unemployment.Do we want to see showsabout people saving money and being unemployed?No. In the 70syou have the bellwether show &quot;The Bionic Woman&quot;that rocketed into the top-10 in 1973,followed by the &quot;Six Million-Dollar Man&quot; and &quot;Charlie&#39;s Angels.&quot;Another spike in the 1980s —another spike in shows about control and power.What were those shows?Glamorous and rich.&quot;Dallas,&quot; &quot;Fantasy Island.&quot;Incredible mapping of our national psychewith some hard and fast facts:unemployment.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:这里是我最喜欢的部分因为这是最后的20年无论如何你肯定是其中一部分你肯定听过或者读到过三位摄像系统的情景喜剧的衰落和真人秀的崛起行业内所称X标记点90年代－幽默的泡沫期我们看《六人行》《欢乐一家亲》《干杯酒吧》和《宋飞传》一起都很美好，低失业率但是看：X标记点2001年2001年九月的收视旺季中幽默一下子转变为评论为什么？2000年总统大选最后又最高法庭判决科技泡沫的破碎911事件炭疽热称为新热门词看看后面是什么？随着新世纪的到来，互联网普及真人秀开始占主导人们希望在电视上看到什么？我认为是报复或者怀旧给我点舒适的东西，我的世界破碎不堪不，他们要公平我要通过投票让你离开小岛我要让莎拉･佩林的女儿继续跳舞我来定下一个美国偶像 你被炒了非常爽 是吧？
en:So here you are, in my favorite chart,because this is our last 20 years.Whether or not you&#39;re in my business,you have surely heard or readof the decline of the thing called the three-camera sitcomand the rise of reality TV.Well, as we say in the business,X marks the spot.The 90s — the big bubbles of humor —we&#39;re watching &quot;Friends,&quot; &quot;Frasier,&quot; &quot;Cheers&quot; and &quot;Seinfeld.&quot;Everything&#39;s good, low unemployment.But look: X marks the spot.In 2001,the September 2001 television season,humor succumbs to judgment once and for all.Why not?We had a 2000 presidential electiondecided by the Supreme Court.We had the bursting of the tech bubble.We had 9/11.Anthrax becomes part of the social lexicon.Look what happens when we keep going.At the turn of the century, the Internet takes off,reality television has taken hold.What do people want in their TV then?I would have thought revengeor nostalgia.Give me some comfort; my world is falling apart.No, they want judgment.I can vote you off the island.I can keep Sarah Palin&#39;s daughter dancing.I can choose the next American Idol. You&#39;re fired.That&#39;s all great, right?
时间：11:13
zh-cn:所以如同这些悬殊不同的电视剧过去50年间的纯娱乐该怎么说？－有一个本能留下来了我们是动物，需要母亲还没有一个年代的电视剧没有一个强大的有利的电视母亲50年代：欢乐剧《反斗小宝贝》里的朱恩･克里夫露西･鲍尔让我们欢笑在60年代的社会意识觉醒里莫德･芬德利是无敬畏的70年代典型荧屏上的她经历过流产，离婚甚至是绝经80年代艾丽克希丝·卡琳顿（《豪门恩怨》）带来第一个冲击墨菲･布朗因为她单身母亲的身份而被一位副总统（丹･奎尔）批判这个时代的母亲Bree Van de Kamp现在我也不确定是那个魔鬼还是天使坐在我们的良知上坐在电视的肩膀上但我知道我喜欢这个图片
en:So as dramatically different as these television shows,pure entertainment, have been over the last 50 years —what did I start with? —one basic instinct remains.We&#39;re animals, we need our moms.There has not been a decade of televisionwithout a definitive, dominant TV mom.The 1950s:June Cleever in the original comfort show, &quot;Leave it to Beaver.&quot;Lucille Ball kept us laughingthrough the rise of social consciousness in the 60s.Maude Findlay,the epitome of the irreverent 1970s,who tackled abortion, divorce,even menopause on TV.The 1980s,our first cougar was given to usin the form of Alexis Carrington.Murphy Brown took on a vice presidentwhen she took on the idea of single parenthood.This era&#39;s mom,Bree Van de Kamp.Now I don&#39;t know if this is the devil or the angelsitting on our conscience,sitting on television&#39;s shoulders,but I do know that I absolutely love this image.
时间：12:25
zh-cn:所以向左右人TEDWomen的女士们，TEDWomen的男士们TEDWomen的全球观众谢谢给我这个机会说出我的关于电视良知的观点也请允许我感谢了不起的制作人在电视时代的这么多年里他们每一天将新点子放到电视荧屏上去他们将生命献给电视事业但，是作为观众的你们通过社会的集体意识给予了电视生命，存在力量，
en:So to you all,the women of TEDWomen, the men of TEDWomen,the global audiences of TEDWomen,thank you for letting me present my ideaabout the conscience of television.But let me also thank the incredible creatorswho get up everydayto put their ideas on our television screensthroughout all these ages of television.They give it life on television, for sure,but it&#39;s you as viewers,through your collective social consciences,that give it life, longevity,power or not.
时间：12:58
zh-cn:非常感谢
en:So thanks very much.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
