时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我曾经做过一个恶梦：梦到我站在埋满地雷的荒地上。现实生活中，我爱好徒步旅行，但是每次要去远足，我都非常焦虑。我脑海中浮想着自己会不会突然失去一部分肢体。
en:I once had this nightmare:I&#39;m standing in the middleof a deserted field full of land mines.In real life, I love to hike,but every time I want to go on a hike,it makes me nervous.I have this thought in the back of my mindthat I might lose a limb.
时间： 0:30
zh-cn:这种潜在的恐惧产生于十年前也就是在我遇到穆罕默德之后，这是一个在2006年黎以冲突期间黎巴嫩集束炸弹袭击中的幸存者。穆罕默德，和世界上许多的幸存者一样，每一天都不得不承受着集束炸弹带来的残忍后果。
en:This underlying fear started 10 years ago,after I met Mohammed,a cluster bomb survivorof the summer 2006Israel-Hezbollah War in Lebanon.Mohammed, like so manyother survivors all around the world,had to live through the horrifyingrepercussions of cluster munitionson a daily basis.
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:当黎巴嫩长达一个月的战争开始时，我还在巴黎的法新社工作。我记得当时我寸步不离电视，焦急地跟进新闻报导。我试着安慰自己炸弹没有落到我父母家。之后我带着新闻工作回到贝鲁特，直到和家人团聚我才释怀，那时他们已经逃离了黎巴嫩南部。战争结束的那一天，我看到了这样的景象——被封锁的道路之一，满是无家可归人们着急南下，想回到家乡，不管那里还剩下什么。
en:When the one-month conflictstarted in Lebanon,I was still workingat Agence France-Presse in Paris.I remember how I was glued to the screens,anxiously following the news.I wanted to reassure myselfthat the falling bombsmissed my parents&#39; home.When I arrived in Beiruton assignment to cover that war,I was relieved to be unitedwith my family,after they had finally managedto escape southern Lebanon.The day the war was over,I remember seeing this image —one of blocked roads,of displaced people eagerly rushingsouth, back to their homes,regardless of what they would find.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:约有四百万吨的弹药，在34天的冲突中散落在黎巴嫩。穆罕默德就是在冲突的最后一个星期失去了双腿。他就住在离我父母家只有五分钟车程的地方，所以那几年我很方便采访到他。距离我第一次见到他已经过去十年了。我目睹这个小男孩承受着生理上和心理上的创伤。我看到过这个少年通过给朋友画纹身，赚取五美元的酬劳。我还知道这个失业的男青年在网上花了几个小时的时间，想约一个可能会当他女朋友的女孩。他的命运以及失去双腿带来的影响，已经成为了他生活的一部分。
en:An estimated four millioncluster submunitionswere spread in Lebanon duringthe 34-day conflict.Mohammed lost both legsduring the last week of the conflict.The fact that he lives a five-minutedrive from my parents&#39; homemade it easier to followhim through the years.It was now almost 10 yearssince we first met.I saw the young boywho had to endurephysical and emotional trauma.I saw the teenager who triedto offer his friends tattoos,in return for a set fee of five dollars.And I know the young, jobless manwho spends hours surfing the Internettrying to meet a girl who mightbecome his girlfriend.His fate and the effectsof losing his legsare now his daily reality.
时间： 2:22
zh-cn:像穆罕默德这样的炸弹幸存者每天都要处理我们不会碰到的许许多多的琐碎小事。谁能想到这些我们早已习以为常的小事，比如去趟海滩或者从地上捡起一件东西，也会成为压力和焦虑的来源。穆罕穆德的现状，都是不灵活的假肢造成的结果。
en:Survivors of bomb trauma like Mohammedhave to deal with so many detailsthat never occur to us.Who would have imaginedthat so many daily tasks we door take for granted,such as going to the beach or evenpicking up something from the floor,would become sourcesof stress and anxiety?Well, that&#39;s what eventuallybecame of Mohammed,due to his inflexible prosthetic legs.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:十年前，我还不知道什么是集束炸弹，更不清楚它可怕的威力。我了解到这种对目标不加鉴别的武器，曾被世界上许多国家所使用，至今还在伤及无辜，不区分军事目标，或者是小孩。我天真地问自己“说真的，是谁制造了这些武器？其用途又是什么？”
en:Ten years ago, I had no cluewhat a cluster bomb was,nor its horrifying implications.I learned that this indiscriminateweapon was usedin so many parts of the worldand continues to kill on a regular basis,without distinguishingbetween a military targetor a child.I naively asked myself,&quot;But seriously, who made those weapons?And what for?&quot;
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:我来说明一下什么是集束炸弹。正如这个装满小型炸弹的大罐子。当它在高空被投放下来，到达半空时它会自动打开释放上百颗小型炸弹。它们散落在各处然后爆炸，其中也有许多没有成功爆炸的。那些没有爆炸的炸弹和地雷无异，潜伏于地面，等待着它们下一个目标。如果有人不小心踩了上去或是捡起它们，它们可能就会爆炸。这些武器是完全不可预测的，这使得它们的威胁进一步增大。今天，一个健康的农民去干农活，第二天他焚烧了些树枝生火，高温就可能引爆旁边隐藏的炸弹。问题还在于有些小孩会误把那些炸弹当玩具，因为它们看起来像弹球或者汽水罐。
en:Let me explain to youwhat a cluster bomb is.It&#39;s a large canisterfilled with bomblets.When it&#39;s dropped from the air,it opens up in midair to releasehundreds of bomblets.They scatter around wide areasand on impact,many fail to explode.Those unexploded ones end upjust like landmines —sitting on the ground,waiting for their next target.If someone steps on them by accidentor picks them up,they can explode.These weapons are extremely unpredictable,which makes the threat even bigger.One day, a farmer can workhis land without a problem.The next day, he can make fireand burn some branches,and the submunitions close bycould be set off because of the heat.The problem is children mistakethose bomblets for toys,because they can look likebouncy balls or soda cans.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:作为一名纪实摄影师，我决定在冲突结束后回黎巴嫩待上几个月，去探访集束炸弹幸存者。我确实见到了一些——侯赛因和拉莎，他们都被集束炸弹炸掉了一条腿。他们的故事和世界上千千万万孩子的故事相似，都成为了不断使用这些武器给人们带来可怕灾难的证据。
en:Being a documentary photographer,I decided to go back to Lebanona few months after the conflict endedto meet cluster bomb survivors.And I met a few —Hussein and Rasha,who both lost a leg to submunitions.Their stories are similar to so manyother kids&#39; stories across the worldand are a testimonyto the horrifying implicationsof the continuous use of such weapons.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:我2007年以一月见到穆罕默德的时候，他才11岁，我在那场意外过去四个月后见到了他。第一次见到他那会儿，他正在接受痛苦的理疗以治愈新伤口。穆罕默德在努力地适应残缺的新身体，年幼的他依旧惊魂未定。有时候他半夜醒来还想要挠一挠失去的脚。我渴望进一步了解他的故事，是因为我突然意识到，穆罕穆德可能在未来面对的困难，可能会比他在11岁时适应残疾所经历的困难，还要更艰巨。
en:That&#39;s when I met Mohammed,in January 2007.He was 11 years old,and I met him exactly four monthsafter his accident.When I first saw him,he was going through painful physiotherapyto recover from his fresh wounds.Still in shock at such a young age,Mohammed was strugglingto get used to his new body.He would even wake up sometimesat night wanting to scratch his lost feet.What drew me closer to his storywas my instant realizationof the difficulties Mohammedwas likely to face in the future —that what he has been sufferingwhile adjusting to his injuryat the age of 11,would increase manyfold.
时间： 5:14
zh-cn:即使是在遭遇不幸之前，他的生活也并不好。他出生在巴勒斯坦难民集聚的拉希迪赫难民营中，至今也没搬过家。黎巴嫩有约40万的巴勒斯坦难民，他们受到当地法律的不公平对待。他们不能进入公共部门工作，或者从事一些特定的职业，就连财产所有权都得不到保护。这就是为什么穆罕默德没有因为伤后退学而感到后悔，他说：“如果我毕业后依然找不到工作，那么上大学又有什么意义？”
en:Even before his disability,Mohammed&#39;s life wasn&#39;t easy.He was born in the Rashidieh Campfor Palestinian refugees,and this is where he still lives.Lebanon holds some 400,000Palestinian refugees,and they suffer from discriminatory laws.They&#39;re not allowed to workin the public sectoror practice certain professionsand are denied the right to own property.This is one of the reasonswhy Mohammed doesn&#39;t reallyregret dropping out of schoolright after his injury.He said, &quot;What&#39;s the pointof a university degreewhen I can&#39;t find a job to start with?&quot;
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:集束炸弹的使用在我们的社会上形成了一个恶性循环，它们危害的不仅仅是受害者的生命。许多因这种武器导致伤残的人因此辍学了，或是无法找工作甚至失去工作，从此失去了养家的能力。更不用说持续的生理上的痛苦，和心理上的孤独感。受打击最严重的是穷人，昂贵的医药费对一个家庭来说是巨大的负担。他们只能依靠资源有限又无法提供持续帮助的人道主义组织，对于那些需要终身接受治疗的伤者来说，更是无法承受。穆罕穆德受伤后十年，他依然买不起一条合适的假肢。他走路非常小心，因为这几年的几次跌倒，已经让他在朋友中颜面失尽。他开玩笑说因为他没有腿，有一天他会尝试用手走路。
en:Cluster bomb use creates a vicious circleof impact on communities,and not only the lives of their victims.Many who get injured by this weapondrop out of school,can&#39;t find jobs or even lose their jobs,therefore losing the abilityto provide for their families.This is not to mentionthe continuous physical painand the experience of feeling isolated.These weapons affectthe poorest of the poor.The high medical costis a burden to the families.They end up relyingon humanitarian agencies,which is insufficient and unsustainable,especially when injuries requirelifelong support to the injured.Ten years after Mohammed&#39;s injury,he is still unable to affordproper prosthetic legs.He&#39;s very cautious with his steps,as a couple of falls over the yearsbrought him embarrassmentamong his friends.He joked that since he doesn&#39;t have legs,some days he tries to walk on his hands.
时间： 6:52
zh-cn:这些武器留下的最糟糕而且无形的影响，就是心理上的创伤。一份关于穆罕默德早期治疗的报告中，他被诊断出患有创伤后精神紧张性精神障碍。他饱受焦虑、食欲不振、睡眠障碍的困扰，还有易怒的倾向。现实是穆罕默德从来没有接受过合适且完善的康复治疗。他当前的愿望就是不惜一切代价离开黎巴嫩——即使要和其他跨越地中海逃往欧洲的难民那样踏上危险的旅途。他清楚这样的旅行风险很高，但是他说：“如果我死在半路也没有什么关系。”真正的穆罕默德早就死在这里了。
en:One of the worst yet invisibleimpacts of the weaponis the psychological scars it leaves.In one of Mohammed&#39;searly medical reports,he was diagnosed with signs of PTSD.He suffered from anxiety,poor appetite, sleep disturbanceand showed signs of anger.The reality is Mohammed never receivedproper help to fully recover.His current obsessionis to leave Lebanon at any cost —even if it meant embarkingon a hazardous journeyalong with refugees drifting towardsEurope today through the Mediterranean.Knowing how risky such a journey would be,he said, &quot;If I were to die on the way,it doesn&#39;t matter.&quot;To Mohammed, he is dead here, anyway.
时间： 7:41
zh-cn:集束炸弹是个全球性的问题，因为这些武器不断伤害和摧毁我们整个社会，影响着世世代代的人。在一个对地雷咨询团体负责人杰米· 富兰克林的在线访谈中，他说：“美国空军在老挝投下了超过两百万吨的弹药。如果飞机在越南搜查不到目标，他们会先把弹药投放到老挝的自由投放区，然后才返回基地，因为带着弹药着陆是危险的。”红十字国际委员会的数据显示，仅仅老挝——世界上最贫困的国家之一——就有九百万到两千七百万吨的未成功引爆炸弹遗留。1973年起约有11000的人因炸弹意外伤亡。这种致命武器被20个国家在军事冲突期间，用在超过35个国家上，比如乌克兰、伊拉克和苏丹。
en:Cluster bombs are a world problem,as this munition keeps destroyingand hurting whole communitiesfor generations to come.In an online interview with the directorof the Mines Advisory Group,Jamie Franklin,he said,&quot;The US forces dropped over two milliontons of munitions over Laos.If they couldn&#39;t findtheir targets in Vietnam,there were free-drop areas in Laoswhere planes would drop their loadsbefore going back to base,because it&#39;s dangerous to landwith loaded planes.&quot;According to the InternationalCommittee of the Red Cross,in Laos alone — one of the poorestcountries in the world —nine to 27 million unexplodedsubmunitions remain.Some 11,000 people have been killedor injured since 1973.This lethal weapon has been usedby over 20 states during armed conflictsin over 35 countries,such as Ukraine, Iraq and Sudan.
时间： 8:45
zh-cn:到目前为止，有119个国家签订了一项关于禁用集束炸弹的国际协议，也就是《国际禁用集束炸弹公约》。但是一些集束炸弹制造大国——比如美国、俄罗斯和中国——不受挽救生命的公约的制约，坚持生产这些武器，并且保留未来可能再次生产的权利，同时保有这些杀伤性武器的库存，甚至将来极有可能会使用。
en:So far, 119 states have joinedan international treatybanning cluster bombs,which is officially calledthe Convention on Cluster Munitions.But some of the biggest producersof cluster munitions —namely, the United States,Russia and China —remain outside of this lifesaving treatyand continue to produce them,reserve the right to producethem in the future,keep those harmful weaponsin their stockpilesand even possibly use them in the future.
时间： 9:16
zh-cn:报道称集束炸弹最近在也门和叙利亚持续不断的冲突中被广泛应用，根据荷兰的非政府组织Pax的一项关于集束炸弹制造商全球投资来源的调查显示，商业机构已经为集束炸弹制造商投资了几十亿美元。这些机构大多属于那些没有签订《国际禁用集束炸弹公约》的国家。
en:Cluster bombs have reportedlybeen used most recentlyin the ongoing conflictsin Yemen and Syria.According to researchon the worldwide investmentsin cluster munitions producersby Pax, a Dutch-based NGO,financial institutions investedbillions of US dollarsinto companies that makecluster munitions.The majority of these institutionsare based in countriesthat have not yet signedthe Convention on Cluster Munitions.
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:说回穆罕默德，少数几种他能找到的工作之一就是采摘柠檬。我问他在地里干活安不安全，他说：“我也不确定。”有调查显示集束炸弹经常污染那些以农业为主要收入来源地区的土地。国际助残组织的调查显示，被集束炸弹导致伤残的98%的人都是平民，而其中的84%为男性。那些国家的人们没有其它选择，只能在那样的土地上劳作，他们不过是干农活而已，却要冒着生命危险。
en:Getting back to Mohammed,one of the few jobs he was ableto find was picking lemons.When I ask him if it&#39;s safeto work in the field he said,&quot;I&#39;m not sure.&quot;Research shows that cluster munitionsoften contaminate areaswhere agriculture is the mainsource of income.According to HandicapInternational&#39;s research,98 percent of those killed or injuredby cluster munitions are civilians.Eighty-four percentof casualties are males.In countries wherethese people have no choicebut to work in those fields,they simply do itand risk it.
时间：10:30
zh-cn:穆罕默德是家里四个孩子中唯一的男孩。习俗上说，应当由他来养家，但他做不到。他尝试过各种各样的工作，却因为身体的残疾一个都做不下去，即使不是这样，当地社会对残疾人也缺乏足够的宽容态度。当他去应聘工作被别人用一点施舍打发走的时候，他受到了深深的伤害。他说：“我不是来乞讨的，我只想靠自己的本事挣钱。”
en:Mohammed is the only maleto three sisters.Culturally, he&#39;s expectedto provide for his family,but he simply can&#39;t.He tried to have so many different jobs,but he couldn&#39;t keep anydue to his physical disabilityand the less-than-friendly environmentto people with disabilities,to say the least.It hurts him a lot when he goesout looking for a job,and he&#39;s turned awaywith a small amount of moneypaid to him out of pity.He said, &quot;I&#39;m not here to beg for money,I just want to earn it.&quot;
时间：11:04
zh-cn:穆罕默德今年已经21岁了。他是个文盲，只能通过对话交流。这是他的一条语音信息：
en:Mohammed today is 21 years old.He&#39;s illiterate,and he communicates with voice messages.Here is one of his messages.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:（音频）穆罕穆德：（阿拉伯语）
en:(Audio) Mohammed: (Speaking in Arabic)
时间：11:22
zh-cn:他说：“我的梦想是奔跑，我很确定一旦我开始奔跑我就决不会停下来。”
en:Laura Boushnak:He said, &quot;My dream is to run,and I&#39;m pretty sure once I start running,I would never stop.&quot;
时间：11:28
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
