时间： 0:12
zh-cn:他们告诉我, 我背叛了自己的职业,我应该被解雇,我的医生执照应该被吊销,我应该回到自己的国家。我的邮箱被入侵了。在一个其他医生开设的论坛上有人轰炸我的推特账户,而且还得到了其他人的赞赏。当时, 我不知道是一件好事还是坏事,但是接着有人回复了:&quot;可惜不是真的炸弹。“
en:They told me that I&#39;m a traitorto my own profession,that I should be fired,have my medical license taken away,that I should go back to my own country.My email got hacked.In a discussion forum for other doctors,someone took creditfor &quot;Twitter-bombing&quot; my account.Now, I didn&#39;t know if thiswas a good or bad thing,but then came the response:&quot;Too bad it wasn&#39;t a real bomb.&quot;
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:我从来没有想到过我做的事情能激起其他医生们这种程度的愤怒。成为一个医生曾是我的梦想。我在中国长大,我最早的记忆是被匆忙送到医院因为我有很严重的哮喘,以至于当时几乎每周都在那里。我有一个总是照顾我的医生, 山姆医生。她当时和我的妈妈一个年纪。她有一头狂乱的卷发,而且她总是穿着一条明黄色的花裙子。她是那些医生中的一个,如果你跌倒并摔伤了胳膊,她会问你是为什么不笑因为那是你的肱骨（与搞笑同音）, 明白吗?你会痛得哇哇叫,但是在见到她之后她总是会让你感觉很好。我们所有人都有我们想长大后成为的儿时英雄, 对吗?我想成为像山姆的医生。当我八岁的时候, 我的父母和我搬到了美国,我们成为了典型的移民家庭。我的父母去清理酒店房间、洗盘子和给瓦斯充气来让我追逐我的梦想。最后, 我学了足够的英语,我的父母很开心对于我进入医学院学习,并为治疗服务宣下了誓言。
en:I never thought that I would do somethingthat would provoke this level of angeramong other doctors.Becoming a doctor was my dream.I grew up in China,and my earliest memoriesare of being rushed to the hospitalbecause I had such bad asthmathat I was there nearly every week.I had this one doctor, Dr. Sam,who always took care of me.She was about the same age as my mother.She had this wild, curly hair,and she always worethese bright yellow flowery dresses.She was one of those doctors who,if you fell and you broke your arm,she would ask you why you weren&#39;t laughingbecause it&#39;s your humerus. Get it?See, you&#39;d groan,but she&#39;d always make you feel betterafter having seen her.Well, we all have that childhood herothat we want to grow upto be just like, right?Well, I wanted to be just like Dr. Sam.When I was eight,my parents and I moved to the U.S.,and ours becamethe typical immigrant narrative.My parents cleaned hotel roomsand washed dishes and pumped gasso that I could pursue my dream.Well, eventually I learned enough English,and my parents were so happythe day that I got into medical schooland took my oath of healing and service.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:但是有一天, 所有的事情都变了。我的妈妈打电话和我说她感觉不是很好,她得的咳嗽一直没有好她喘不过气而且一直很疲累。我知道我的妈妈是那种从来不向他人抱怨的人。所以当她告诉我她觉得不对劲的时候,我就知道事情不妙了。结果：我们发现她已经到了乳腺癌四期,癌细胞当时已经扩散到她的肺,骨头和大脑里。我的妈妈是勇敢的, 她一直抱有希望。她经历了手术和放射治疗,在她在进行第三轮的化疗的时候她弄丢了她的通讯薄。她想从网上找到她的肿瘤科医生的电话她找到了, 并且也找到了一些其他的东西。在一些网站上,他是一家药物公司高薪聘请的代言人，而且, 事实上经常为他给我妈定的化疗方案作代表宣传。她很慌张的给我打电话,我不知道该相信什么。可能为她做的化疗方案是对的,但是也可能不是,这使她非常害怕并产生怀疑。当我们遇到药物问题时,这种信任非常重要,当信任失去了, 那么剩下的就只有害怕了。
en:But then one day, everything changed.My mother called me to tell methat she wasn&#39;t feeling well,she had a cough that wouldn&#39;t go away,she was short of breath and tired.Well, I knew that my mother was someonewho never complained about anything.For her to tell methat something was the matter,I knew something had to be really wrong.And it was:We found out that she hadstage IV breast cancer,cancer that by then had spreadto her lungs, her bones, and her brain.My mother was brave,though, and she had hope.She went through surgery and radiation,and was on her third round of chemotherapywhen she lost her address book.She tried to look up her oncologist&#39;sphone number on the Internetand she found it,but she found something else too.On several websites,he was listed as a highly paidspeaker to a drug company,and in fact often spoke on behalfof the same chemo regimenthat he had prescribed her.She called me in a panic,and I didn&#39;t know what to believe.Maybe this was the rightchemo regimen for her,but maybe it wasn&#39;t.It made her scared and it made her doubt.When it comes to medicine,having that trust is a must,and when that trust is gone,then all that&#39;s left is fear.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:这份恐惧也有着另外一面。作为一个医学院的学生,我一直照顾一个19岁的骑自行车回他的宿舍的路上被撞倒, 卡在一辆越野车里的人。他有七根断掉的肋骨，破裂的臀部骨头，他的腹部和脑袋一直在流血。现在，想象一下他的父母要从2000英里外的西雅图飞过来,为了去见正在昏迷的儿子。我意思是， 他们真的想找出到底发生了什么在他的身上？他们要求去参加我们的查房,听取我们的诊疗经过。我认为是个合理的请求。同时也给我们一个机会去向他们展示我们有多努力和关心,尽管主治医生说不行。他给了很多方面的原因。可能他们会妨碍护士的工作.可能他们会阻止学生问问题。他甚至说，“如果他们看到错误并起诉我们怎么办？”我看到的是每个借口后面深深的恐惧,我学到的是去成为一个医生,我们不得不穿上白大褂,筑起一道墙, 并藏在后面。这其实是一种在医学领域里隐藏的风气。当然, 患者会害怕当他们去看医生的时候。想象你因肚子痛而醒来,你去医院,你躺在一个一个陌生的地方, 你在医院的轮床上,你穿着单薄的病人服，陌生人过来对你一通摆弄,你不知道将发生什么。你甚至不知道你会不会拿到你30分钟前要的毛毯。但是这不仅仅是患者害怕;医生也一样害怕,我们害怕患者找出我们是谁和医学是关于什么的,所以我们做什么呢?我们穿上我们的白大褂并藏在后面,当然, 我们越是想隐藏,人们就越想知道我们隐藏的是什么.越多的害怕就会造成医患之间不信任,以及贫乏的医疗救助。我们不仅仅有着对疾病的害怕,我们也患上了恐惧病。
en:There&#39;s another side to this fear.As a medical student, I was taking careof this 19-year-oldwho was biking back to his dormwhen he got struck and hit,run over by an SUV.He had seven broken ribs,shattered hip bones,and he was bleeding insidehis belly and inside his brain.Now, imagine being his parentswho flew in from Seattle,2,000 miles away,to find their son in a coma.I mean, you&#39;d want to find outwhat&#39;s going on with him, right?They asked to attend our bedside roundswhere we discussedhis condition and his plan,which I thought was a reasonable request,and also would give usa chance to show themhow much we were tryingand how much we cared.The head doctor, though, said no.He gave all kinds of reasons.Maybe they&#39;ll get in the nurse&#39;s way.Maybe they&#39;ll stop studentsfrom asking questions.He even said,&quot;What if they see mistakes and sue us?&quot;What I saw behind every excusewas deep fear,and what I learnedwas that to become a doctor,we have to put on our white coats,put up a wall, and hide behind it.There&#39;s a hidden epidemic in medicine.Of course, patients are scaredwhen they come to the doctor.Imagine you wake upwith this terrible bellyache,you go to the hospital,you&#39;re lying in this strange place,you&#39;re on this hospital gurney,you&#39;re wearing this flimsy gown,strangers are comingto poke and prod at you.You don&#39;t know what&#39;s going to happen.You don&#39;t even know if you&#39;re going to getthe blanket you asked for 30 minutes ago.But it&#39;s not just patients who are scared;doctors are scared too.We&#39;re scared of patientsfinding out who we areand what medicine is all about.And so what do we do?We put on our white coatsand we hide behind them.Of course, the more we hide,the more people want to knowwhat it is that we&#39;re hiding.The more fear then spiralsinto mistrust and poor medical care.We don&#39;t just have a fear of sickness,we have a sickness of fear.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:我们能在患者需求和医生之间的这种隔阂搭建桥梁吗?我们能克服这种恐惧吗?让我换种方式问你:如果隐藏并不是解决问题的答案, 假使我们反方向而行之了呢?如果医生和患者之间变得完全透明呢?
en:Can we bridge this disconnectbetween what patients needand what doctors do?Can we overcome the sickness of fear?Let me ask you differently:If hiding isn&#39;t the answer,what if we did the opposite?What if doctors were to becometotally transparent with their patients?
时间： 5:25
zh-cn:去年秋天, 我做了一个研究学习去找出人们想知道关于他们医疗保健的哪些事情。我不仅是想了解医院病人们的想法,而是所有人。所以我的两个实习生, 苏诃毗·塔克和劳拉·约翰,到街上做了这个研究。他们去了医院, 咖啡店, 老人中心,中餐厅和火车站。他们发现了什么呢?当我们问他们,你们想知道关于你们的医疗保健的什么?人们回应他们想知道关于他们的医生的信息,因为人们知道医疗保健是他们和他们医生之间的个人互动。当我们问, &quot;你们想知道关于医生的什么?&quot;人们给了三个不同的回答。一些人想知道他们的医生是有能力和资格去行医。一些人想确定他们的医生公正的做决定是基于科学依据,而不是谁给他们付钱。令我们惊讶的是,许多人想知道关于医生的其他事情。乔纳森, 一个28岁的法律学生,说他想找一些愿意为同性双性恋及跨性别患者治疗,而且是这一类别相关疾病的专家。塞丽娜, 一个32岁的会计,说她的医生分享她的价值观在生育选择上和女性权力上对她说是重要的。弗兰克, 一个59岁的五金店老板,甚至不喜欢去看医生只是想找以预防为先，而且愿意进行替代疗法的医生。一个接一个的, 我们的回应者告诉我们医生和患者之间的关系是紧密到可以让他们的医生去看他们的身体并可以告诉他们最深秘密的。他们想先了解他们的医生的价值观。仅仅是因为医生可以去看每一个患者并不代表每个患者就不得不去看每个医生。人们想先了解他们的医生所以他们可以在知情情况下做出选择,
en:Last fall, I conducteda research study to find outwhat it is that people wantto know about their healthcare.I didn&#39;t just want to studypatients in a hospital,but everyday people.So my two medical students,Suhavi Tucker and Laura Johns,literally took their researchto the streets.They went to banks,coffee shops, senior centers,Chinese restaurants and train stations.What did they find?Well, when we asked people,&quot;What do you want to knowabout your healthcare?&quot;people responded with what they wantto know about their doctors,because people understand health careto be the individual interactionbetween them and their doctors.When we asked, &quot;What do youwant to know about your doctors?&quot;people gave three different answers.Some want to knowthat their doctor is competentand certified to practice medicine.Some want to be surethat their doctor is unbiasedand is making decisionsbased on evidence and science,not on who pays them.Surprisingly to us,many people want to knowsomething else about their doctors.Jonathan, a 28-year-old law student,says he wants to find someonewho is comfortable with LGBTQ patientsand specializes in LGBT health.Serena, a 32-year-old accountant,says that it&#39;s important to herfor her doctor to share her valueswhen it comes to reproductive choiceand women&#39;s rights.Frank, a 59-year-oldhardware store owner,doesn&#39;t even like going to the doctorand wants to find someonewho believes in prevention first,but who is comfortablewith alternative treatments.One after another,our respondents told usthat that doctor-patient relationshipis a deeply intimate one —that to show their doctors their bodiesand tell them their deepest secrets,they want to first understandtheir doctor&#39;s values.Just because doctorshave to see every patientdoesn&#39;t mean that patientshave to see every doctor.People want to knowabout their doctors firstso that they can make an informed choice.
时间： 7:19
zh-cn:通过这个结果, 我组织一个活动,我的医生是谁?来呼吁医疗界的透明化。自愿参与的医生公开信息在一个公共网站上,不仅仅我们上了哪家医学院我们的专业是什么,而且还有我们的经济利益冲突。我们已经超出了政府关于制药从属公司的阳光行动,我们讨论了我们是如何得到报酬的。诱因很重要。如果你去看医生因为背痛,你可能想知道, 他做一个脊柱手术就能拿到5000美金,而引荐你去看物理治疗只能拿到25美金。或者说不管他推荐你什么, 他得到的支付都是一样的。然后, 我们更进一步。我们带来了更多的好处：比如女性健康,同性双性恋及跨性者的健康问题, 替代疗法,卫生预防, 以及临终决定。我们向我们的患者保证我们在这里是为你服务。所以你有权利知道我们是谁,我们相信这种透明可以治疗恐惧。
en:As a result of this, I formed a campaign,Who&#39;s My Doctor?that calls for totaltransparency in medicine.Participating doctors voluntarily discloseon a public websitenot just informationabout where we went to medical schooland what specialty we&#39;re in,but also our conflicts of interest.We go beyondthe Government in the Sunshine Actabout drug company affiliations,and we talk about how we&#39;re paid.Incentives matter.If you go to your doctorbecause of back pain,you might want to know he&#39;s getting paid5,000 dollars to perform spine surgeryversus 25 dollars to refer youto see a physical therapist,or if he&#39;s getting paid the same thingno matter what he recommends.Then, we go one step further.We add our valueswhen it comes to women&#39;s health,LGBT health, alternative medicine,preventive health,and end-of-life decisions.We pledge to our patientsthat we are here to serve you,so you have a right to know who we are.We believe that transparencycan be the cure for fear.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:我当时认为一些医生会签下这份协议, 一些不会,但是我不知道接下来会产生这么大的反对意见。在这项活动开始的一周内知名医学网站医景的公共论坛和一些网上医生社区有了上千个关于这个话题的帖子。这里有一些
en:I thought some doctors would sign onand others wouldn&#39;t,but I had no idea of the huge backlashthat would ensue.Within one week of startingWho&#39;s My Doctor?Medscape&#39;s public forumand several online doctors&#39; communitieshad thousands of posts about this topic.Here are a few.
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:来自于波特兰的一个胃肠病专家:&quot;我奉献了我生命中的12年去成为一个奴隶,我有贷款和抵押贷款,我依靠制药公司给的饭碗去给患者服务。“这个时代对于每一个人都是困难的,但是尝试去告诉你的患者一年赚35,000美金去养活一家四口使你需要这个免费午餐。
en:From a gastroenterologist in Portland:&quot;I devoted 12 years of my lifeto being a slave.I have loans and mortgages.I depend on lunches fromdrug companies to serve patients.&quot;Well, times may be hard for everyone,but try telling your patientmaking 35,000 dollars a yearto serve a family of fourthat you need the free lunch.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:这个是来自夏洛特的一名矫形外科医生:“我认为公开我的收入来源是一种对我隐私的侵犯,我的病人也不向我公开他们的收入情况。“但是你病人的收入来源不影响你的健康。
en:From an orthopedic surgeon in Charlotte:&quot;I find it an invasion of my privacyto disclose where my income comes from.My patients don&#39;t disclosetheir incomes to me.&quot;But your patients&#39; sources of incomedon&#39;t affect your health.
时间： 9:16
zh-cn:这个是来自一名纽约的精神科的医生:&quot;不久之后我们将不得不公开我们是否喜欢喜欢猫比狗多一点,我们开什么类型的车,我们用什么厕纸。“你的丰田汽车和斯科特纸的看法不会影响你的病人的健康,但是你对女性权利的选择,预防医学和临终决定的看法是可能的。还有我最喜欢的一条, 来自于堪萨斯城的心脏科医生:“更多国家指定的医生?文医生需要搬回自己的国家。“这有两条好消息,第一, 这应该是自愿的而不是强制的,第二, 我是美国人, 而且我已经在这了。(掌声)
en:From a psychiatrist in New York City:&quot;Pretty soon we will have to disclosewhether we prefer cats to dogs,what model of car we drive,and what toilet paper we use.&quot;Well, how you feelabout Toyotas or Cottonellewon&#39;t affect your patients&#39; health,but your viewson a woman&#39;s right to chooseand preventive medicineand end-of-life decisions just might.And my favorite,from a Kansas City cardiologist:&quot;More government-mandated stuff?Dr. Wen needs to moveback to her own country.&quot;Well, two pieces of good news.First of all, this is meant to bevoluntary and not mandatory,and second of all, I&#39;m Americanand I&#39;m already here.(Laughter) (Applause)
时间：10:04
zh-cn:一个月之内, 我的雇主接到过几通电话要求解雇我。在我的一个私人的居所里, 收到了一封邮件威胁说要去联系医委会制裁我,我的朋友和家庭强烈要求我从这个活动里退出,在收到炸弹威胁后, 我受够了。但是然后我从患者那里听说,基于大众评价, Tweetchat,是我在当时用的社交工具,已经产生了430万的留言,上千人留言鼓励我继续。他们写下一些如,“如果医生做了一些让他们感到羞愧的事情,他们就不应该那样做。““当选官员在公开他们的竞选资金来源，律师在公开他们的经济利益冲突的情况下，医生怎么就不能公开了?“最后, 许多人留言说,“让我们患者决定当我们选一个医生的时候，什么才是重要的。”在我们初期的实验里,超过300个医生参与了这个透明承诺。多么疯狂的想法, 对吗?但是事实上, 这一点都不算是新的概念。记得山姆医生,那个会讲傻傻的笑话和狂野的头发的中国医生吗?她曾是我的医生,但是她同时也是住在街对面的邻居。我和她的女儿去的同一所学校,我的父母和我相信她因为我们知道她是怎样的一个人和她的信仰是什么,她不需要向我们隐藏什么。仅仅这一代之前, 这在美国也是常态。你知道你的家庭医生是两个十几岁男孩的父亲,他几年前把烟戒掉了,经常去做礼拜,但是你见他一年两次: 要么是在复活节要么就是他的岳母到访的时候。你知道关于他的事情,他不需要向你隐藏什么。但是现在已经恐惧占据了,患者为其承担后果。
en:Within a month, my employerswere getting callsasking for me to be fired.I received mailat my undisclosed home addresswith threats to contactthe medical board to sanction me.My friends and family urged meto quit this campaign.After the bomb threat, I was done.But then I heard from patients.Over social media, a TweetChat,which I&#39;d learned what that was by then,generated 4.3 million impressions,and thousands of people wroteto encourage me to continue.They wrote with things like,&quot;If doctors are doing somethingthey&#39;re that ashamed of,they shouldn&#39;t be doing it.&quot;&quot;Elected officials have to disclosecampaign contributions.Lawyers have to discloseconflicts of interests.Why shouldn&#39;t doctors?&quot;And finally, many people wrote and said,&quot;Let us patients decidewhat&#39;s importantwhen we&#39;re choosing a doctor.&quot;In our initial trial,over 300 doctors have takenthe total transparency pledge.What a crazy new idea, right?But actually, this is notthat new of a concept at all.Remember Dr. Sam, my doctor in China,with the goofy jokes and the wild hair?Well, she was my doctor,but she was also our neighborwho lived in the buildingacross the street.I went to the same school as her daughter.My parents and I trusted herbecause we knew who she wasand what she stood for,and she had no need to hide from us.Just one generation ago,this was the norm in the U.S. as well.You knew that your family doctorwas the father of two teenage boys,that he quit smoking a few years ago,that he says he&#39;s a regular churchgoer,but you see him twice a year:once at Easterand once when his mother-in-lawcomes to town.You knew what he was about,and he had no need to hide from you.But the sickness of fear has taken over,and patients suffer the consequences.
时间：11:58
zh-cn:我亲身经历过的。我的妈妈和癌症做了八年的斗争,她是一个有计划的人,她想了很多关于她想如何活和她想如何死去。她不仅签了预留医疗指示协议,而且她写下了12页, 关于她遭受的是怎样的痛苦,是时候让她走了。一天, 当我是一名住院医师的时候,我接到电话说她在特护病房。我到那儿时, 她正要被插管装上呼吸机。“但是这不是她想要的,“ 我说, “我们有协议的。“重症加护病房的医生看着我的眼睛,指着我16岁的妹妹说,“你记得当你是这个年纪的时候吗?你会想要没有妈妈陪在你身边吗?“她的肿瘤医生也在那里对我说,“这是你的妈妈。在你接下去的日子里, 你真的能面对你自己如果你没有为她尽全力?“我非常了解我的妈妈。我明白她签的协议是什么,但是我也是一名医生。这曾是我人生当中做的一个最难的决定：让她在平静地死去,我每一天都在想这些医生的话
en:I know this firsthand.My mother foughther cancer for eight years.She was a planner,and she thought a lotabout how she wanted to liveand how she wanted to die.Not only did she sign advance directives,she wrote a 12-page documentabout how she had suffered enough,how it was time for her to go.One day, when I was a resident physician,I got a call to say that she wasin the intensive care unit.By the time I got there,she was about to be intubatedand put on a breathing machine.&quot;But this is not what she wants,&quot;I said, &quot;and we have documents.&quot;The ICU doctor looked at me in the eye,pointed at my then 16-year-oldsister, and said,&quot;Do you remember when you were that age?How would you have liked to grow upwithout your mother?&quot;Her oncologist was there too, and said,&quot;This is your mother.Can you really face yourselffor the rest of your lifeif you don&#39;t do everything for her?&quot;I knew my mother so well.I understood whather directives meant so well,but I was a physician.That was the single hardestdecision I ever made,to let her die in peace,and I carry those wordsof those doctors with meevery single day.
时间：13:22
zh-cn:我们能在患者需求和医生之间的这种隔阂搭建桥梁。我们可以做到, 因为之前我们做到过,我们知道这种透明让我们得到信任。研究已经表明公开也可以帮助医生,有一个公开的的病历,就会愿意去讨论医疗差错,这将增加患者的信任改善健康结果,减少治疗不当。公开, 信任,只会变得更加重要，因为我们关注的是疾病的行为模式，而不是它的传染模式。细菌可能不关心信任和亲密但是为了帮助患者彻底改变他们不良生活嗜好，为了让患者戒烟，为了让患者控制血压，控制血糖，这些都要求我们去建立医患信任感。
en:We can bridge the disconnectbetween what doctors doand what patients need.We can get there,because we&#39;ve been there before,and we know that transparencygets us to that trust.Research has shown usthat openness also helps doctors,that having open medical records,being willing to talkabout medical errors,will increase patient trust,improve health outcomes,and reduce malpractice.That openness, that trust,is only going to be more importantas we move from the infectiousto the behavioral model of disease.Bacteria may not care so muchabout trust and intimacy,but for people to tacklethe hard lifestyle choices,to address issues like smoking cessation,blood-pressure managementand diabetes control,well, that requires us to establish trust.
时间：14:10
zh-cn:以下是其他参与透明活动的医生说的。
en:Here&#39;s what other transparentdoctors have said.
时间：14:12
zh-cn:布兰登∙库姆斯, 在丹佛的内科医生:“这让我和我的患者亲近。这种我一直以来建立起来的医患关系恰恰就是为什么当初我行医的原因。“
en:Brandon Combs, an internist in Denver:&quot;This has brought mecloser to my patients.The type of relationship I&#39;ve developed —that&#39;s why I entered medicine.&quot;
时间：14:25
zh-cn:亚伦, 丹佛的一名内科医生我告诉我的患者们，我对他们完全公开。我不向他们隐藏任何什么。这就是我, 你呢。我们同心协力。“
en:Aaron Stupple, an internist in Denver:&quot;I tell my patientsthat I am totally open with them.I don&#39;t hide anything from them.This is me. Now tell me about you.We&#39;re in this together.&quot;
时间：14:38
zh-cn:五月阮, 休斯顿的一名家庭医生:&quot;我的同事对于我在做什么都很震惊。他们问我, 我怎么这么勇敢。我说, 这不是勇敢,这是我的工作。&quot;
en:May Nguyen, a family physician in Houston:&quot;My colleagues are astoundedby what I&#39;m doing.They ask me how I could be so brave.I said, I&#39;m not being brave,it&#39;s my job.&quot;
时间：14:54
zh-cn:今天我留给你们最后一个思考。成为完全透明是令人害怕的,你感觉很不安, 脆弱,但是那些脆弱, 谦卑,对于我们行医来说,会带来非同凡响的益处。当医生愿意放下架子,脱下白大褂,向我们的患者展示我们是谁和医学是关于什么的,那就是我们开始去克服恐惧的时候,那就是我们建立信任的时候,那就是我们改变医学模式从秘密和隐藏到完全开放并参与我们的患者中去。
en:I leave you today with a final thought.Being totally transparent is scary.You feel naked, exposed and vulnerable,but that vulnerability, that humility,it can be an extraordinary benefitto the practice of medicine.When doctors are willingto step off our pedestals,take off our white coats,and show our patients who we areand what medicine is all about,that&#39;s when we beginto overcome the sickness of fear.That&#39;s when we establish trust.That&#39;s when we changethe paradigm of medicinefrom one of secrecy and hidingto one that is fully open and engagedfor our patients.
时间：15:34
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：15:35
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
