时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我在接下来的15分钟准备做的就是告诉你们一个关于人们如何让物质具有生命的理念这理念听起来可能有些野心勃勃可是当你看着自己，看着自己的双手你意识到你是活着的这便是我们理念的开始对这种理念的探寻始于四十亿年前的地球上在过去的四十亿年中生命是有机的，生物上的概念作为一名无机化学家我的朋友和同事在有机的，有生命的世界和无机的，死得世界间做出了区分。我接下来要做的就是播种一些思想关于我们如何能将无机的、没有生命的物质转化为有生命的物质、转化为无机生物学。
en:What I&#39;m going to try and do in the next 15 minutes or sois tell you about an ideaof how we&#39;re going to make matter come alive.Now this may seem a bit ambitious,but when you look at yourself, you look at your hands,you realize that you&#39;re alive.So this is a start.Now this quest started four billion years ago on planet Earth.There&#39;s been four billion yearsof organic, biological life.And as an inorganic chemist,my friends and colleagues make this distinctionbetween the organic, living worldand the inorganic, dead world.And what I&#39;m going to try and do is plant some ideasabout how we can transform inorganic, dead matterinto living matter, into inorganic biology.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:所以在我们开始之前，我想要摆正一下生物学的位置。我完全为生物学而着迷。我喜欢合成生物学。我爱有生命的东西。我喜欢研究生物学的基础领域。但是在基础领域里，我们必须记得，生物学的驱动力事实上来自于进化。而进化，尽管它的理论在一百年以前就被查尔斯.达尔文和许多其他的科学家所建立和完善进化论依然有一点点抽象。当我谈到达尔文的进化论时，我仅仅指的是一个论点，即适者生存。所以不要用形而上学的方法来研究进化论。当想到进化时，要从子孙后代彼此竞争，同时产生一些赢家的角度来考虑。
en:Before we do that,I want to kind of put biology in its place.And I&#39;m absolutely enthralled by biology.I love to do synthetic biology.I love things that are alive.I love manipulating the infrastructure of biology.But within that infrastructure,we have to rememberthat the driving force of biologyis really coming from evolution.And evolution,although it was established well over 100 years ago by Charles Darwinand a vast number of other people,evolution still is a little bit intangible.And when I talk about Darwinian evolution,I mean one thing and one thing only,and that is survival of the fittest.And so forget about evolutionin a kind of metaphysical way.Think about evolutionin terms of offspring competing,and some winning.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:这一点我牢记心中作为一个化学家的我，不禁扪心自问，这个被生物学忽视掉的问题：什么是最小的且能适应达尔文进化论的物质单元？这是个看起来有些深奥的问题。作为一个化学家，我们并不是每天都思考这样深奥的问题。所以当我考虑它的时候，我忽然意识到，生物学给了我们答案。事实上，最小的可以独立进化的物质单元，是一个单细胞——细菌。
en:So bearing that in mind,as a chemist, I wanted to ask myselfthe question frustrated by biology:What is the minimal unit of matterthat can undergo Darwinian evolution?And this seems quite a profound question.And as a chemist,we&#39;re not used to profound questions every day.So when I thought about it,then suddenly I realizedthat biology gave us the answer.And in fact, the smallest unit of matterthat can evolve independentlyis, in fact, a single cell —a bacteria.
时间： 2:12
zh-cn:这既引出了三个十分重要的问题。生命是什么？生物是独一无二的吗？生物学家当然这样认为。物质是可以进化的吗？现在如果我们以倒序来回答这些问题，第三个问题——生命是可以演化的吗？如果我们能回答这个问题，我们便可以知道生物学究竟有多特殊，同时可能，仅仅是可能，我们能够一窥生命的本质。
en:So this raises three really important questions:What is life?Is biology special?Biologists seem to think so.Is matter evolvable?Now if we answer those questions in reverse order,the third question — is matter evolvable? —if we can answer that,then we&#39;re going to know how special biology is,and maybe, just maybe,we&#39;ll have some idea of what life really is.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:这里有一些无机生命。这是一个没有生命的晶体。我准备在它身上加工一下，它就会变得具有生命。你可以看到这个过程有点像授粉、发芽和成长。这是一个无机晶体管。这些放在显微镜下的晶体，都在几分钟前死掉了，但他们看起来依旧鲜活。当然，他们并非真的活着这个化学实验里我制造一个晶体花园但是当我看到这里，我完全被迷住了，因为他们看起来栩栩如生。暂停一下我们看看屏幕你们可以看到它的架构正在成长，逐渐将空白处填满。但它没有生命。所以我十分乐观，如果我们可以以某种方式模拟生命，我们未尝不能再往前走一步。让我们看看，能不能真的制造生命。
en:So here&#39;s some inorganic life.This is a dead crystal,and I&#39;m going to do something to it,and it&#39;s going to become alive.And you can see,it&#39;s kind of pollinating, germinating, growing.This is an inorganic tube.And all these crystals here under the microscopewere dead a few minutes ago, and they look alive.Of course, they&#39;re not alive.It&#39;s a chemistry experiment where I&#39;ve made a crystal garden.But when I saw this, I was really fascinated,because it seemed lifelike.And as I pause for a few seconds, have a look at the screen.You can see there&#39;s architecture growing, filling the void.And this is dead.So I was positive that,if somehow we can make things mimic life,let&#39;s go one step further.Let&#39;s see if we can actually make life.
时间： 3:24
zh-cn:但是依然存在一个问题，因为大概在十年前我们得知生命是不可能形成的并且我们是宇宙中最难以置信的奇迹事实上，我们是浩瀚宇宙中的唯一生物这有点无趣了作为一个化学家我想说，“等等，怎么回事？生命真的是无法形成的吗？”这正是问题所在我想也许第一个细胞的形成正如第一颗行星的出现一样事实上，让我们更进一步的思考比如说如果聚变物理学蕴含在宇宙的编码之中也许生命的物理学也是如此所以化学家的任务同时也是一种巨大的优势便是我们要将重点放在化学元素上在生物学领域，碳是中心并且在碳和有机生物存在的宇宙中我们能看到这美妙的生命多样性。事实上，我们能够掌控如此奇妙的生命形式。实验室里，我们极其小心的去尝试和避免各种各样的生物危害。
en:But there&#39;s a problem,because up until maybe a decade ago,we were told that life was impossibleand that we were the most incredible miracle in the universe.In fact, we were the only peoplein the universe.Now, that&#39;s a bit boring.So as a chemist,I wanted to say, &quot;Hang on. What is going on here?Is life that improbable?&quot;And this is really the question.I think that perhaps the emergence of the first cellswas as probable as the emergence of the stars.And in fact, let&#39;s take that one step further.Let&#39;s saythat if the physics of fusionis encoded into the universe,maybe the physics of life is as well.And so the problem with chemists —and this is a massive advantage as well —is we like to focus on our elements.In biology, carbon takes center stage.And in a universe where carbon existsand organic biology,then we have all this wonderful diversity of life.In fact, we have such amazing lifeforms that we can manipulate.We&#39;re awfully careful in the labto try and avoid various biohazards.
时间： 4:29
zh-cn:那物质方面呢？如果我们能够赋予物质生命，我们会不会面临物质危害？所以，请认真思考一下，这个严肃的问题。如果你的笔能够自我复制那确实会产生一些问题所以我们必须从不同的角度进行思考如果我们想要赋予物质生命我们必须对可能产生的问题谨慎看待但是在我们能够制造生命以前让我们先想一想生命的特质为何原谅我不得不给你们看这些复杂的图表这只是一张细胞内代谢路径的总图并且细胞对于我们而言很明显是令人着迷的东西合成化学家正对细胞进行操作。化学家正试图通过研究分子来探究疾病。并且在你体内正同时进行着这些代谢路径。你的身体可以进行调控转录信息制造催化剂、并产生各种机能。但是细胞能做什么？它会分裂、彼此竞争、最后存活下来。我认为这是我们创造生命的想法的起点
en:Well what about matter?If we can make matter alive, would we have a matterhazard?So think, this is a serious question.If your pen could replicate,that would be a bit of a problem.So we have to think differentlyif we&#39;re going to make stuff come alive.And we also have to be aware of the issues.But before we can make life,let&#39;s think for a secondwhat life really is characterized by.And forgive the complicated diagram.This is just a collection of pathways in the cell.And the cell is obviously for usa fascinating thing.Synthetic biologists are manipulating it.Chemists are trying to study the molecules to look at disease.And you have all these pathways going on at the same time.You have regulation;information is transcribed;catalysts are made; stuff is happening.But what does a cell do?Well it divides, it competes,it survives.And I think that is where we have to startin terms of thinking aboutbuilding from our ideas in life.
时间： 5:28
zh-cn:但是生命的特质还有哪些？我喜欢将它想象成在瓶子里的一束火焰。我们在图中看到的是对单细胞的复制、代谢和通过化学反应燃烧的过程的描绘。因此我们必须理解如果我们想要人工制造生命或理解生命的起源我们必须通过某种方式提供能量。所以在我们真正能够制造生命以前，我们必须认真想一想它来自何方。达尔文本人曾在一封给他同时的信中谈道他认为生命可能从一些小而温暖的池塘或其他地方演化而来可能在苏格兰，可能在非洲也可能在其他地方。但是最坦诚的答案是，我们无从得知。因为生命的起源依旧是个问题。想象一下我们回到四十五亿年前，只有一些化学物质的溶液。人类从中诞生。
en:But what else is life characterized by?Well, I like think of itas a flame in a bottle.And so what we have hereis a description of single cellsreplicating, metabolizing,burning through chemistries.And so we have to understandthat if we&#39;re going to make artificial life or understand the origin of life,we need to power it somehow.So before we can really start to make life,we have to really think about where it came from.And Darwin himself mused in a letter to a colleaguethat he thought that life probably emergedin some warm little pond somewhere —maybe not in Scotland, maybe in Africa,maybe somewhere else.But the real honest answer is, we just don&#39;t know,because there is a problem with the origin.Imagine way back, four and a half billion years ago,there is a vast chemical soup of stuff.And from this stuff we came.
时间： 6:18
zh-cn:如果你觉得接下来几分钟里我讲的内容有些不大可能的话，请记住我们从地球上的物质中诞生。我们经历了多种多样的世界。RNA研究者谈论着RNA世界我们却不知怎么成为了蛋白质和DNA。接着出现了生命的始祖。进化开始了——这是关键。然后人类出现。但是依然存在着一个你无法逾越的障碍。你可以解码基因组，你可以回溯往昔，你可以将我们所有人借由一个线粒体DNA联系在一起，但是你无法追溯到第一个生命始祖以前，这是我们能基因测序和追溯历史的最后一个细胞。所以我们无从得知我们是怎么走到今天这一步的。
en:So when you think about the improbable natureof what I&#39;m going to tell you in the next few minutes,just remember,we came from stuff on planet Earth.And we went through a variety of worlds.The RNA people would talk about the RNA world.We somehow got to proteins and DNA.We then got to the last ancestor.Evolution kicked in — and that&#39;s the cool bit.And here we are.But there&#39;s a roadblock that you can&#39;t get past.You can decode the genome, you can look back,you can link us all together by a mitochondrial DNA,but we can&#39;t get further than the last ancestor,the last visible cellthat we could sequence or think back in history.So we don&#39;t know how we got here.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:我们有两个选择：直接或间接的智能设计论——要么是上帝要么是我的朋友，如果说是E.T.将我们，或其他的生命放在这里，这就将问题更推进一步。我不是政治家，我是一名科学家。我们可以思考的另外一件事，是化学复杂度的出现。这似乎是最有可能的情形。因此地球上出现了某种原始汤并且它碰巧是所有20种氨基酸的最好的来源。并且通过某种方式，这些氨基酸彼此结合随后生命出现。但是生命的出现意味着什么？什么是生命？形成生命的物质是什么？
en:So there are two options:intelligent design, direct and indirect —so God,or my friend.Now talking about E.T. putting us there, or some other life,just pushes the problem further on.I&#39;m not a politician, I&#39;m a scientist.The other thing we need to think aboutis the emergence of chemical complexity.This seems most likely.So we have some kind of primordial soup.And this one happens to bea good source of all 20 amino acids.And somehowthese amino acids are combined,and life begins.But life begins, what does that mean?What is life? What is this stuff of life?
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:50年代，Miller和Urey进行了一项奇特的化学怪人试验，在试验中他们制造出一种相同的化学环境。他们提取了一些基本的元素，将他们放到一个烧瓶里随后将其点燃并且通过了大量的电压。他们观察溶液中出现了什么，于是他们发现了氨基酸。但是没有其他东西出现，并没有细胞。因此整项研究停滞了一段时间。直到80年代才重新开始，正是分析技术和计算机科技正在发展的时期。
en:So in the 1950s,Miller-Urey did their fantastic chemical Frankenstein experiment,where they did the equivalent in the chemical world.They took the basic ingredients, put them in a single jarand ignited themand put a lot of voltage through.And they had a look at what was in the soup,and they found amino acids,but nothing came out, there was no cell.So the whole area&#39;s been stuck for a while,and it got reignited in the &#39;80swhen analytical technologies and computer technologies were coming on.
时间： 8:15
zh-cn:在我自己的实验室里，我们创造物及生物的方式是通过使用许多不同的反应形式。因此我们正在做的是进行反应——不是在一个烧瓶中，而是在数十个烧瓶中，并且让他们彼此相连，正如你看见的这些流动系统一样，他们全部由管道连接。我们可以通过微流体或平板印刷技术进行，也可以用3D打印机来制作，同时我们可以让同事们在滴液中操作。而最关键的便是让一系列的化学反应自然发生。但这也很可能以失败告终。所也我们需要更加努力。
en:In my own laboratory,the way we&#39;re trying to create inorganic lifeis by using many different reaction formats.So what we&#39;re trying to do is do reactions —not in one flask, but in tens of flasks,and connect them together,as you can see with this flow system, all these pipes.We can do it microfluidically, we can do it lithographically,we can do it in a 3D printer,we can do it in droplets for colleagues.And the key thing is to have lots of complex chemistryjust bubbling away.But that&#39;s probably going to end in failure,so we need to be a bit more focused.
时间： 8:48
zh-cn:至于答案，当然，就在老鼠身上。这让我想起我作为一个化学家所需要的一切东西。我说，“我想制造分子。”但是我需要一个新陈代谢系统，我需要一些能量。我需要一些信息，我需要一个容器。因为如果我想要进化，我需要这些容器间彼此进行竞争。如果你拥有一个容器，就像你坐在你的车里。说，“这是我的车”，“我想开着它转一转，并好好炫耀一番。”我会想在细胞生物学上生命出现时你也会是这样的所以也许这些事情共同使进化发生。并且检测它的方法便是在实验室里，使其最小化。
en:And the answer, of course, lies with mice.This is how I remember what I need as a chemist.I say, &quot;Well I want molecules.&quot;But I need a metabolism, I need some energy.I need some information, and I need a container.Because if I want evolution,I need containers to compete.So if you have a container,it&#39;s like getting in your car.&quot;This is my car,and I&#39;m going to drive around and show off my car.&quot;And I imagine you have a similar thingin cellular biologywith the emergence of life.So these things together give us evolution, perhaps.And the way to test it in the laboratoryis to make it minimal.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:所以我们接下来要尝试捣鼓出一个无机的乐高分子积木请谅解这些屏幕上的分子，但是它们只是一种很简单的积木。现在可能只有三到四种不同的积木。我们可以将他们组合在一起并真实地制造出上千种相当大的纳米分子大小相当于DNA及蛋白质，但是其里面不含碳元素。碳并不是什么好东西。所以至于这个乐高积木，我们需要它的复杂多样来储存复杂的信息而不需要DNA的参与。但是我们仍需要制作一些容器。就在几个月前，在我的实验室，我们可以以这些几乎相同的分子来制造细胞。并且你可以从屏幕上看到一个细胞正在被制作出来。我们准备在里面放上一些化学物质，并在细胞内进行一些化学反应。我想要展示给你的是我们能够建立分子并置于细胞膜上，在真正的细胞里，它能够建立一种适用达尔文主义的分子，一种适者生存的分子。
en:So what we&#39;re going to try and dois come up with an inorganic Lego kit of molecules.And so forgive the molecules on the screen,but these are a very simple kit.There&#39;s only maybe three or four different types of building blocks present.And we can aggregate them togetherand make literally thousands and thousandsof really big nano-molecular moleculesthe same size of DNA and proteins,but there&#39;s no carbon in sight.Carbon is banned.And so with this Lego kit,we have the diversity requiredfor complex information storagewithout DNA.But we need to make some containers.And just a few months ago in my lab,we were able to take these very same molecules and make cells with them.And you can see on the screen a cell being made.And we&#39;re now going to put some chemistry inside and do some chemistry in this cell.And all I wanted to show youis we can set up moleculesin membranes, in real cells,and then it sets up a kind of molecular Darwinism,a molecular survival of the fittest.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:这部影片展示了分子间的竞争分子间为了物质而竞争他们都由同一种物质组成，但他们希望以自己的形态取胜。他们想让自己的形态存活下来。那便是关键所在。如果我们能够以某种方式鼓励这些分子彼此连通、而后形成正确的形态并彼此竞争，他们便会开始形成可以自我复制和竞争的细胞。如果我们真的能够做到，先别理会分子的细节。
en:And this movie hereshows this competition between molecules.Molecules are competing for stuff.They&#39;re all made of the same stuff,but they want their shape to win.They want their shape to persist.And that is the key.If we can somehow encourage these moleculesto talk to each other and make the right shapes and compete,they will start to form cellsthat will replicate and compete.If we manage to do that,forget the molecular detail.
时间：10:52
zh-cn:让我们把回过头来看看那意味着什么。我们已经了解这种狭义进化论这种进化论只能被应用于有机生物学，我们身上如果我们能够使进化进入物质世界，我建议我们应得到一种广义进化论。这确实值得认真思考。进化会控制宇宙中物质的复杂多样性吗？在进化的过程中是否存在某种推动力让物质能够彼此竞争？因此那意味着我们能够开始开发出不同的平台来探索这种进化。所以你可以想象以下，如果我们能够创造一种能够独立生存的人工生命形式，这不仅能够告诉我们生命的起源——宇宙可能不需要碳便能存活宇宙可以由任何元素形成我们可以更进一步的开发新的技术，因为我们能够用软件控制将进化译成编码。
en:Let&#39;s zoom out to what that could mean.So we have this special theory of evolutionthat applies only to organic biology, to us.If we could get evolution into the material world,then I propose we should have a general theory of evolution.And that&#39;s really worth thinking about.Does evolution controlthe sophistication of matter in the universe?Is there some driving force through evolutionthat allows matter to compete?So that means we could then startto develop different platformsfor exploring this evolution.So you imagine,if we&#39;re able to create a self-sustaining artificial life form,not only will this tell us about the origin of life —that it&#39;s possible that the universe doesn&#39;t need carbon to be alive;it can use anything —we can then take [it] one step further and develop new technologies,because we can then use software controlfor evolution to code in.
时间：11:45
zh-cn:所以想象一下我们制造了一个小小的细胞。我们希望将它放在自然环境中，我们想让它由太阳来供给能量。我们要做的是将它放在一个有光照的盒子里我们不需要任何其他的设计，便可以知道发生了什么。我们应该从生物学中获取灵感。设计在生物学中并不重要，除非它实用所以这将重新建构我们设计事物的方式。但是不仅如此，我们会开始思考我们要怎样在生物学中发展出一种共生关系。这不是很棒吗？如果你能确实得到这些人工制造的生物细胞并将他们同生物细胞相融合从而修正那些我们未能真正解决的问题。细胞生物学的真正问题在于我们从来没有试图理解过任何事情，因为它是一个由进化产生的多维度问题。进化不能被分割开来。你需要通过某种方式找到最合适的机能。并且于我而言，最深层的体会在于，如果这能成功的话，自利基因的概念会成为众矢之的因为这些是真正的自私基因
en:So imagine we make a little cell.We want to put it out in the environment,and we want it to be powered by the Sun.What we do is we evolve it in a box with a light on.And we don&#39;t use design anymore. We find what works.We should take our inspiration from biology.Biology doesn&#39;t care about the designunless it works.So this will reorganizethe way we design things.But not only just that,we will start to think abouthow we can start to develop a symbiotic relationship with biology.Wouldn&#39;t it be greatif you could take these artificial biological cellsand fuse them with biological onesto correct problems that we couldn&#39;t really deal with?The real issue in cellular biologyis we are never going to understand everything,because it&#39;s a multidimensional problem put there by evolution.Evolution cannot be cut apart.You need to somehow find the fitness function.And the profound realization for meis that, if this works,the concept of the selfish gene gets kicked up a level,and we really start talking about selfish matter.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:在一个我们人类为最高物质形态的宇宙中那意味着什么？你坐在椅子上。椅子是没有生命的，他们不是活着的。但是你是由物质组成的，并且你正在使用物质，同时你奴役着物质。所以使用进化这个概念在生物学领域和有机生物学领域对我来说是非常有说服力，非常令人激动的。同时我们彼此间变得十分紧密从而理解这些使无生命的物质具有生命的关键步骤。再一次，当你觉得这不大可能的话别忘了，50亿年前，地球上没有人类，没有生命。所以这能告诉我们什么
en:And what does that mean in a universewhere we are right now the highest form of stuff?You&#39;re sitting on chairs.They&#39;re inanimate, they&#39;re not alive.But you are made of stuff, and you are using stuff,and you enslave stuff.So using evolutionin biology,and in inorganic biology,for me is quite appealing, quite exciting.And we&#39;re really becoming very closeto understanding the key stepsthat makes dead stuff come alive.And again, when you&#39;re thinking about how improbable this is,remember, five billion years ago,we were not here, and there was no life.So what will that tell us
时间：13:26
zh-cn:关于生命的起源和含义？也许对于我一个化学家来说，我不想仅是笼统的思考；而是具体的思考这一点。给生命下个定义，这意味着什么？我们真的尽了最大的努力去做这件事。我想，如果我们能够制造无机生物，并且我们能让物质变得可以进化。事实上我们已经能够定义生命。我的目的是告诉你们能够进化的物质就是有生命的，并且这给了我们制造可进化物质的灵感。
en:about the origin of life and the meaning of life?But perhaps, for me as a chemist,I want to keep away from general terms;I want to think about specifics.So what does it mean about defining life?We really struggle to do this.And I think, if we can make inorganic biology,and we can make matter become evolvable,that will in fact define life.I propose to youthat matter that can evolve is alive,and this gives us the idea of making evolvable matter.
时间：13:54
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：13:56
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：14:03
zh-cn:Chris Anderson:还有一个很短的问题。你相信你能在这个项目上取得成功吗？什么时候？
en:Chris Anderson: Just a quick question on timeline.You believe you&#39;re going to be successful in this project?When?
时间：14:11
zh-cn:Lee Cronin:很多人认为生命用了数百万年的时间起作用。而我们的方法只要配置好化学成分几个小时就成
en:Lee Cronin: So many people thinkthat life took millions of years to kick in.We&#39;re proposing to do it in just a few hours,once we&#39;ve set upthe right chemistry.
时间：14:22
zh-cn:CA：你认为那什么时候会发生？
en:CA: And when do you think that will happen?
时间：14:24
zh-cn:LC：希望在接下来的两年内。
en:LC: Hopefully within the next two years.
时间：14:27
zh-cn:CA：那一定是件大事。（笑声）在你看来，你相信这件事情发生的概率是多少当你走在其他的星球上发现并没有碳基生命在行走或流动着？
en:CA: That would be a big story.(Laughter)In your own mind, what do you believe the chances arethat walking around on some other planetis non-carbon-based life,walking or oozing or something?
时间：14:39
zh-cn:LC：我认为是百分百可能。因为关键的是，我们在生物学领域太过沙文主义，如果你去掉碳元素，会其他的事情发生。所以那些其他的事情如果我们能够创造非碳基生命，也许我们能够告诉NASA到底要寻找什么。不要去找碳元素，去找一下可进化的物质。
en:LC: I think it&#39;s 100 percent.Because the thing is, we are so chauvinistic to biology,if you take away carbon, there&#39;s other things that can happen.So the other thingthat if we were able to create life that&#39;s not based on carbon,maybe we can tell NASA what really to look for.Don&#39;t go and look for carbon, go and look for evolvable stuff.
时间：14:56
zh-cn:CA：Lee Cronin,祝你好运。（LC：非常感谢。）
en:CA: Lee Cronin, good luck. (LC: Thank you very much.)
时间：14:58
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
