时间： 0:11
zh-cn:请与我一起来到世界的最底部南极洲，最高，最为干燥，风力最为强劲的区域并且也是地球上最为寒冷的地方—比撒哈拉沙漠更为干燥并且在部分区域比火星还要寒冷。南极洲的冰块在阳光的照耀下非常刺眼，它甚至可让你失明。早期的探险者把可卡因涂在眼睛里面以抑制那难以忍受的疼痛。南极洲庞大冰块的大部分重量隐藏于海平面之下。同时，南极洲的冰块还是记录气候变化的日历。它记录了从冰河时代开始至今每年温室气体和温度的增长和下降。地球上没有任何一个其它地方可以为我们提供如此良好的历史记录。在这里，科学家们正在钻探着我们星球过去的历史以寻找到通向未来气候变化的线索。
en:Come with me to the bottom of the world,Antarctica,the highest, driest, windiest,and yes, coldest region on Earth —more arid than the Saharaand, in parts, colder than Mars.The ice of Antarctica glowswith a light so dazzling,it blinds the unprotected eye.Early explorers rubbed cocaine in their eyesto kill the pain of it.The weight of the ice is such that the entire continentsags below sea level, beneath its weight.Yet, the ice of Antarcticais a calendar of climate change.It records the annual rise and fallof greenhouse gases and temperaturesgoing back before the onset of the last ice ages.Nowhere on Earthoffers us such a perfect record.And here, scientists are drillinginto the past of our planetto find clues to the futureof climate change.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:在刚过去的一月里，我来到了名为南极洲西部冰原区，一个大约位于距离南极点600英里处的区域。很多人说这里是探索星球的最佳地点，可以探索研究气候变化的历史。这里约有45名来自威斯康辛大学，内华达的沙漠研究中心和其它机构的科学家，他们正致力于回答关于全球变暖的关键疑问。在温室气体程度和星球温度之间到底存在什么样的关系？这是非常紧迫的工作．我们知道温度在不断上升。刚过去的五月是有记录以来最温暖的五月。并且我们也知道温室气体在不断增加。但是我们还不了解的是这些变化将会给自然气候带来怎样精确即时的影响—比如暴风，海洋流，沉淀率，风云信息等，这些因素影响着亿万人民健康和生活水平。
en:This past January,I traveled to a place called WAIS Divide,about 600 miles from the South Pole.It is the best place on the planet, many say,to study the history of climate change.There, about 45 scientists from the University of Wisconsin,the Desert Research Institute in Nevada and othershave been working to answer a central questionabout global warming.What is the exact relationshipbetween levels of greenhouse gasesand planetary temperatures?It&#39;s urgent work. We know that temperatures are rising.This past May was the warmest worldwide on record.And we know that levels of greenhouse gases are rising too.What we don&#39;t knowis the exact, precise, immediateimpact of these changeson natural climate patterns —winds, ocean currents,precipitation rates, cloud formation,things that bear on the health and well-beingof billions of people.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:他们整个研究所，包括每个齿轮都是从位于美国在南极洲海岸设立的供应基地—-麦克默多站横渡搬运885公里到此。虽然南极洲西部冰原区仅是位于大雪中的一圈帐篷，在暴风雪中，帐篷将会被钢丝绳连接在一起，这样人们可以感觉到从最近的冰屋到最近的外屋而更有安全感。在这里暴风雪非常惊人，设施曾经几乎在一瞬间被毁。确实，研究学者们之所以挑选这里是因为在这里冰和雪的积累速度比南极洲的其它任何地方都快十倍。每天他们都得把自己从雪中挖出来。这可是一条很奇异并且很寒冷的通行路。
en:Their entire camp, every item of gear,was ferried 885 milesfrom McMurdo Station,the main U.S. supply baseon the coast of Antarctica.WAIS Divide itself though,is a circle of tents in the snow.In blizzard winds, the crew sling ropes between the tentsso that people can feel their way safelyto the nearest ice houseand to the nearest outhouse.It snows so heavily there,the installation was almost immediately buried.Indeed, the researchers picked this sitebecause ice and snow accumulates here10 times faster than anywhere else in Antarctica.They have to dig themselves out every day.It makes for an exoticand chilly commute.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:但是在这表面之下，他们围绕着一台八百万美元的钻机正进行着积极的工业探索。每隔一段时间这台钻机就像活检针检查一样深入上千英尺的冰层中抽取出气体的精华和同位体以应用于分析。每天十次，他们提取十英尺长的压缩冰晶柱其中包含了在经过了上千年的历史更迭之后雪层下未经污染的气体和轨迹化学物。它就像一台时间机器。在今年早些时候的探索高峰期时，研究者们把钻头再往冰层中多钻探了一百多英尺，从而了解了比之前更早的365年的历史。他们定期地除去冰柱就像看守员从钻头的外壳上除掉老化的外壳。他们对其进行检测以检查，是否有裂缝，有钻头破损裂开等。
en:But under the surfaceis a hive of industrial activitycentered around an eight-million-dollar drill assembly.Periodically, this drill, like a biopsy needle,plunges thousands of feet deep into the iceto extract a marrow of gasesand isotopes for analysis.Ten times a day, they extractthe 10-foot long cylinder of compressed ice crystalsthat contain the unsullied air and trace chemicalslaid down by snow,season after season for thousands of years.It&#39;s really a time machine.At the peak of activity earlier this year,the researchers lowered the drillan extra hundred feet deeper into the ice every dayand another 365 yearsdeeper into the past.Periodically, they removea cylinder of ice,like gamekeepers popping a spent shotgun shellfrom the barrel of a drill.They inspect it, they check it for cracks,for drill damage, for spalls, for chips.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:更为重要的是，他们为位于美国和欧洲的27个独立实验室提供样品以进行检测和分析，他们可以检测到与气候相关的四十种不同的轨迹化合物，有的含量仅为百万的四次乘方（一千万亿）之一。是的，我是指这个百万的四次乘方（一千万亿）。他们将冰柱分割成为三英尺的小块为离钻头点约8000英里外的这些实验室中提供更为方便的操作和冰柱搬运。每个冰柱都是时间的真实记录。
en:More importantly,they prepare it for inspection and analysisby 27 independent laboratoriesin the United States and Europe,who will examine it for 40 different trace chemicalsrelated to climate,some in parts per quadrillion.Yes, I said that with a Q, quadrillion.They cut the cylinders up into three-foot sectionsfor easier handling and shipmentback to these labs,some 8,000 miles from the drill site.Each cylinderis a parfait of time.
时间： 4:24
zh-cn:这些冰块大约15800年前形成雪，那个时候我们祖先还在玩弄着涂料并在思考着关于字母的新技术。在极光的浸沐下被切成截面的这古代的冰块展示出了某种马塞克色彩，每一个都展现出在冰块中的深度如何影响了这种材料在不同深度时压力可达到每平方英寸一吨。每年都下雪，从而钻探进入最新鲜的雪层，今天可以看到这个过程是如何进行的。在未经开采的雪层下，太阳光所造成的背光映射出冬雪和夏雪的条纹，一层接着一层。每次暴风雪席卷着大气，冲洗掉灰尘，煤烟，踪迹化学物，并将其沉淀于雪层上年复一年，成千上万年，形成了在这里超过11000英尺厚的雪层中的这种时代周期表。从中我们可以检测到种类繁多的物质。我们可以找到来自世界沙漠的钙，来自遥远野火的煤烟，来自太平洋雨季的指示物甲烷，它们都从温暖的地方来到这遥远寒冷的地方。
en:This ice formed as snow15,800 years ago,when our ancestors were daubing themselves with paintand considering the radical new technologyof the alphabet.Bathed in polarized lightand cut in cross-section,this ancient ice reveals itselfas a mosaic of colors,each one showing how conditions at depth in the icehave affected this materialat depths where pressures can reacha ton per square inch.Every year, it begins with a snowflake,and by digging into fresh snow,we can see how this process is ongoing today.This wall of undisturbed snow,back-lit by sunlight,shows the striations of winter and summer snow,layer upon layer.Each storm scours the atmosphere,washing out dust, soot,trace chemicals,and depositing them on the snow packyear after year,millennia after millennia,creating a kind of periodic table of elementsthat at this pointis more than 11,000 feet thick.From this, we can detect an extraordinary number of things.We can see the calciumfrom the world&#39;s deserts,soot from distant wildfires,methane as an indicator of the strength of a Pacific monsoon,all wafted on winds from warmer latitudesto this remote and very cold place.
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:最为重要的是，这些冰柱和雪层可捕捉气体。每个冰柱大约含有10%的古代气体是关于温室气体的原始纯净信息—-二氧化碳，甲烷和氧化氮—从雪形成且落下的那天开始便未曾发生变化。这便是他们的调查对象。但是难道我们不是已经知道了关于温室气体所需要知道的信息吗？为什么我们还需要进一步研究它呢？难道我们不是已经知道它如何影响气温吗？难道我们不是已经知道了变化的气候所带来的结果将如何影响我们的文明社会吗？事实是，我们仅仅知道其大致轮廓，并非是完全彻底理解，甚至我们不能完好地对其进行修复。事实上，我们还冒着把事情弄得更糟的风险。
en:Most importantly,these cylinders and this snowtrap air.Each cylinder is about 10 percent ancient air,a pristine time capsuleof greenhouse gases — carbon dioxide,methane, nitrous oxide —all unchanged from the day that snow formedand first fell.And this is the object of their scrutiny.But don&#39;t we already knowwhat we need to know about greenhouse gases?Why do we need to study this anymore?Don&#39;t we already know how they affect temperatures?Don&#39;t we already know the consequencesof a changing climate on our settled civilization?The truth is, we only know the outlines,and what we don&#39;t completely understand,we can&#39;t properly fix.Indeed, we run the risk of making things worse.
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:20世纪最为成功的国际环境保护条例，蒙特利尔法案旨在联合世界各国以保护我们的星球免于受到当时在空调，电冰箱和其它冷却设备中广泛使用中的臭氧破坏化学物的影响。我们禁止了这些化学物而使用了其它我们未知的物质进行了替换,而每一个新物质分子都比二氧化碳更为可能成为传热的温室气体。
en:Consider, the single most successfulinternational environmental effort of the 20th century,the Montreal Protocol,in which the nations of Earth banded together to protect the planetfrom the harmful effects of ozone-destroying chemicalsused at that timein air conditioners, refrigerators and other cooling devices.We banned those chemicals,and we replaced them, unknowingly,with other substancesthat, molecule per molecule,are a hundred times more potentas heat-trapping, greenhouse gasesthan carbon dioxide.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:这样的过程需要特别的谨慎预防。科学家们必须确保冰层未受到污染。并且在这长达8000英里的旅途中，他们必须得确保冰不会融化。想象一下夹着雪球穿过热带地区吧。他们必须得确保冰不会变得高于零下20度，否则其中的关键气体就会挥发。因此在地球最为寒冷的地区他们就像在电冰箱中工作一样。当他们操作冰雪时，事实上他们还预留一双置于烤箱中的手套，因为当他们的工作手套冻结时，他们的手指变得僵硬，他们可以更换上预备手套来暖手。他们与时间和温差进行着斗争。
en:This process requiresextraordinary precautions.The scientists must insurethat the ice is not contaminated.Moreover, in this 8,000-mile journey,they have to insure this ice doesn&#39;t melt.Imagine juggling a snowball across the tropics.They have to, in fact,make sure this ice never gets warmerthan about 20 degrees below zero,otherwise, the key gases inside it will dissipate.So, in the coldest place on Earth,they work inside a refrigerator.As they handle the ice, in fact,they keep an extra pair of gloves warming in an oven,so that, when their work gloves freezeand their fingers stiffen,they can don a fresh pair.They work against the clock and against the thermometer.
时间： 8:07
zh-cn:目前为止，他们已经堆积了大约4500英尺的冰雪，这些冰雪都将会被运回美国。在刚过去的季节中，他们将这些冰雪搬运出冰层以等待空中运送飞机。109号空军护卫队将最近的冰雪运到南极洲海岸，在这里将会被搬上货轮，穿过热带以来到加利福尼亚，卸货并装运上货车，穿过沙漠抵达位于科罗拉多州丹佛的国家冰雪中心研究室，在那里，正于我们所说的那样，科学家将材料切成片以制成样品用于分析，再将样品分送到全国各地和欧洲的实验室里。
en:So far, they&#39;ve packed upabout 4,500 feet of ice coresfor shipment back to the United States.This past season,they manhandled them across the iceto waiting aircraft.The 109th Air National Guardflew the most recent shipment of iceback to the coast of Antarctica,where it was boarded onto a freighter,shipped across the tropics to California,unloaded, put on a truck,driven across the desertto the National Ice Core Laboratory in Denver, Colorado,where, as we speak,scientists are now slicing this material upfor samples, for analysis,to be distributedto the laboratories around the countryand in Europe.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:南极洲是星球上最后的—-不断扩张的世界中唯一的盲点。早期的探险家们航海来到了地图的这边缘地带南极洲，并且他们找到某个似乎传统的时间和温度规则都不再有效的区域。在这里，冰雪就如同活生生的存在。暴风雪不断地侵蚀着南极洲，赐于它独特的魅力。这是一种有魅力的体验。而这正是我们所需要的嗓音。
en:Antarctica was this planet&#39;slast empty quarter —the blind spotin our expanding vision of the world.Early explorerssailed off the edge of the map,and they found a placewhere the normal rules of time and temperatureseem suspended.Here, the ice seems a living presence.The wind that rubs against itgives it voice.It is a voice of experience.It is a voice we should heed.
时间： 9:29
zh-cn:谢谢你们。
en:Thank you.
时间： 9:31
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
