时间： 0:11
zh-cn:你可能听过可兰经里对天堂的描述，那里有72个处女。我保证待会儿会回到处女这个话题。事实上，在我们（美国的）东北部，我们生活在跟真正可兰经里的天堂极为相似的地方，（在书中）它的定义出现过36次，即“流水灌溉的花园”。因为我恰好住在同盟湖水流经的船房里，所以说我太理解这个定义了。但问题是，为什么绝大多数人对这一点却很陌生？我知道很多怀着善意的非穆斯林试着开始读可兰经，但最后还是放弃了，因为它的另类而不安。史学家托马斯.卡莱尔认为穆哈默德是世界上最伟大的英雄之一，可即便是他也认为可兰经，“是我有生以来读得最费劲的读物，叫人厌烦，而且含糊不清。”
en:You may have heardabout the Koran&#39;s idea of paradisebeing 72 virgins,and I promise I will come back to those virgins.But in fact, here in the northwest,we&#39;re living very closeto the real Koranic idea of paradise,defined 36 timesas &quot;gardens watered by running streams.&quot;Since I live on a houseboat on the running stream of Lake Union,this makes perfect sense to me.But the thing is, how come it&#39;s news to most people?I know many well-intentioned non-Muslimswho&#39;ve begun reading the Koran, but given up,disconcerted by its &quot;otherness.&quot;The historian Thomas Carlyleconsidered Muhammad one of the world&#39;s greatest heroes,yet even he called the Koran&quot;as toilsome reading as I ever undertook,a wearisome, confused jumble.&quot;
时间： 1:04
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:部分原因，我认为，是我们把可兰经想象成一本像我们平时信手拈来就可以读的书 —仿佛我们可以在一个细雨蒙蒙的下午，蜷缩在椅子里悠闲品读，手边还放着一碗爆米花，仿佛上帝 —可兰经完整记录了上帝对穆哈默德的话语 —仅仅是另一本畅销书榜单上的作者。然而事实上，只有极少数人真正研读可兰经，这就是为什么可兰经这么容易被引用 —或者说，错误地被引用。人们断章取义截出我称之为“划重点版”的章节，穆斯林原教旨主义者和反穆斯林的恐伊斯兰教者都乐衷于此。
en:Part of the problem, I think,is that we imagine that the Koran can be readas we usually read a book —as though we can curl up with it on a rainy afternoonwith a bowl of popcorn within reach,as though God —and the Koran is entirely in the voice of God speaking to Muhammad —were just another author on the bestseller list.Yet the fact that so few peopledo actually read the Koranis precisely why it&#39;s so easy to quote —that is, to misquote.Phrases and snippets taken out of contextin what I call the &quot;highlighter version,&quot;which is the one favored by both Muslim fundamentalistsand anti-Muslim Islamophobes.
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:所以在过去的这个春天，当我正筹备着开始撰写穆哈默德传记的时候，我意识到我必须好好地读一读可兰经 —当然，尽可能好地。我的阿拉伯语已经退化到要靠翻字典才能过活的地步，所以我找了四本著名的（可兰经）译本，决定把它们并排并放一起读，一行一行地读，同时参考一本音译本和一本七世纪阿拉伯语的原版。我的确有个优势。我最近的一本书讲的是关于叶什和逊尼两派（伊斯兰教的两个分支）纷争的故事，因为它，我跟伊斯兰的早期历史打过交道，所以我很熟悉那些历史事件，可兰经里反复提及的事件，即它的历史背景。我知道足够多，或者说会知道我会像一个游客，游历可兰经 —我至少是一个见识过的游客，甚至是一个有经验的游客，但无论如何始终是一个局外人，一个不知可论（哲学观点）的犹太人，阅读其他宗教的神圣经文。（笑声）所以我读得很慢。（笑声）我打算用三个星期完成这个计划，而这，就是所谓的自大。（笑声）因为最后我花了三个月的时间才完成。我有抵制住翻到最后看结局的诱惑，在读到那些较短的，但明显更神秘的章节时。
en:So this past spring,as I was gearing upto begin writing a biography of Muhammad,I realized I needed to read the Koran properly —as properly as I could, that is.My Arabic&#39;s reduced by nowto wielding a dictionary,so I took four well-known translationsand decided to read them side-by-side,verse-by-versealong with a transliterationand the original seventh-century Arabic.Now I did have an advantage.My last bookwas about the story behind the Shi&#39;a-Sunni split,and for that I&#39;d worked closely with the earliest Islamic histories,so I knew the eventsto which the Koran constantly refers,its frame of reference.I knew enough, that is, to knowthat I&#39;d be a tourist in the Koran —an informed one,an experienced one even,but still an outsider,an agnostic Jewreading some else&#39;s holy book.(Laughter)So I read slowly.(Laughter)I&#39;d set aside three weeks for this project,and that, I think, is what is meant by &quot;hubris&quot; —(Laughter)— because it turned out to be three months.I did resist the temptation to skip to the backwhere the shorter and more clearly mystical chapters are.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:但每次我以为我开始要对可兰经开窍的时候 —那个“我终于明白了”的感觉 —在一夜之间又会悄然而逝。第二天早晨醒来，我会纳闷我是否曾在一个陌生的领地迷了路。而那个地带却又很熟悉。可兰经声明了它是来更新律法和福音的（基督教经文）。所以它的三分之一都在重新叙述圣经里人物的故事，像阿伯拉罕，摩西，约瑟夫，玛利，耶稣。上帝本身是绝对的熟悉，从一开始以雅威为化身 —心存嫉妒，坚持世上除他之外再没有其他神明。书中出现的骆驼和高山，绿洲和泉水都把我带回了我在西奈沙漠游走的那年。还有语言，那带着韵律的抑扬顿挫，让我回想起那些夜晚，倾听贝都因老人背诵几小时的长篇叙事诗完全凭记忆。然后我开始明白为什么说只有阿拉伯语的可兰经才是真正的可兰经。
en:But every time I thought I was beginningto get a handle on the Koran —that feeling of &quot;I get it now&quot; —it would slip away overnight,and I&#39;d come back in the morningwondering if I wasn&#39;t lost in a strange land,and yet the terrain was very familiar.The Koran declares that it comesto renew the message of the Torah and the Gospels.So one-third of itreprises the stories of Biblical figureslike Abraham, Moses,Joseph, Mary, Jesus.God himself was utterly familiarfrom his earlier manifestation as Yahweh —jealously insisting on no other gods.The presence of camels, mountains,desert wells and springstook me back to the year I spentwandering the Sinai Desert.And then there was the language,the rhythmic cadence of it,reminding me of evenings spent listening to Bedouin eldersrecite hours-long narrative poemsentirely from memory.And I began to graspwhy it&#39;s saidthat the Koran is really the Koranonly in Arabic.
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:拿Faatihah来说，七行的开篇，由主祷文和伊斯兰的施玛篇组成。它只是29个阿拉伯语单词，但翻译都至少要用到65至72个单词。然而添加的越多，本意似乎也丧失得越多。阿拉伯语有一种咒语般的，近乎于催眠的特质，它祈求被聆听，而非阅读，被感受，多于解析。它希望被大声吟咏，让它的旋律传出舌尖，传进耳朵。所以英文版的可兰经只不过是它的影子，或者如亚瑟.阿伯里所说，“一种释义”。但不是所有都会在翻译中被丢失。
en:Take the Fatihah,the seven-verse opening chapterthat is the Lord&#39;s Prayer and the Shema Yisrael of Islam combined.It&#39;s just 29 words in Arabic,but anywhere from 65 to 72 in translation.And yet the more you add,the more seems to go missing.The Arabic has an incantatory,almost hypnotic, qualitythat begs to be heard rather than read,felt more than analyzed.It wants to be chanted out loud,to sound its music in the ear and on the tongue.So the Koran in Englishis a kind of shadow of itself,or as Arthur Arberry called his version,&quot;an interpretation.&quot;But all is not lost in translation.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:正如可兰经承诺的那样，耐心会得到回报，（读可兰经）会带来很多惊喜 —譬如一定程度上对环境的认知，人类仅仅是上帝创造的副手，这些都是圣经无法比拟的。相对于圣经里那些仅仅是对男同胞的讲解，即以第二和第三男性人称的叙述部分，可兰经顾及到了女同胞 —例如，信男和信女 —可敬的男人和可敬的女人。再比如那句臭名昭著的，关于杀死异教徒的句子。是的，可兰经里有这么说，但是是在一个非常特定的情况下才被允许的：即将来临的对圣城麦迦的入侵在这座禁止打斗的城市里。而且这许可是带有限制的。不是说，你一定要杀死麦迦城的异教徒，而是说，你可以，你被允许这么做，但只有等到宽限期结束之后，只有当没有其他条约存在的时候，只有当他们企图阻止你到达克尔白天房，只有当他们先攻击你。就算到了那个时候 — 上帝还是仁慈的，宽恕至上 —所以，本质上，最好不杀。（笑声）这也许是最大的惊喜 —可兰经是多么变通啊，至少对那些不是完全固不可化的人来说是这样的。
en:As the Koran promises, patience is rewarded,and there are many surprises —a degree of environmental awareness, for instance,and of humans as mere stewards of God&#39;s creation,unmatched in the Bible.And where the Bible is addressed exclusively to men,using the second and third person masculine,the Koran includes women —talking, for instance,of believing men and believing women,honorable men and honorable women.Or take the infamous verseabout killing the unbelievers.Yes, it does say that,but in a very specific context:the anticipated conquestof the sanctuary city of Meccawhere fighting was usually forbidden,and the permission comes hedged about with qualifiers.Not &quot;You must kill unbelievers in Mecca,&quot;but you can, you are allowed to,but only after a grace period is overand only if there&#39;s no other pact in placeand only if they try to stop you getting to the Kaaba,and only if they attack you first.And even then — God is merciful;forgiveness is supreme —and so, essentially,better if you don&#39;t.(Laughter)This was perhaps the biggest surprise —how flexible the Koran is,at least in minds that are notfundamentally inflexible.
时间： 6:53
zh-cn:“有些语句很明了”，它说，“而另一些则有歧义。心术不正的会去寻找有歧义的部分，用他们自己扭曲了的解释，企图制造不和。只有上帝才知道真正的意义。”“上帝是不可捉摸的”这句话出现了一次又一次。事实上，整个可兰经比我们中大多数所相信的要难以琢磨得多。譬如，在处女和天堂的那个小议题中。老式的东方主义发挥了它的作用。有个词被用了四次那就是Houris，意为有着深色眼睛、丰盈乳房的少女，或者是白皙而又胸部高挺的处女。然而在阿拉伯语原版中，有的仅仅是那一个词：Houris根本没有任何暗示，提及丰盈的乳房或高挺的胸部。（笑声）它也许是用来描述纯洁生物 — 如天使 — 的一种方式，或者它是类似于希腊语中的Kouros，亦写作Kórē，即长生不老的青年。
en:&quot;Some of these verses are definite in meaning,&quot; it says,&quot;and others are ambiguous.&quot;The perverse at heartwill seek out the ambiguities,trying to create discordby pinning down meanings of their own.Only God knows the true meaning.The phrase &quot;God is subtle&quot;appears again and again,and indeed, the whole of the Koran is far more subtlethan most of us have been led to believe.As in, for instance,that little matterof virgins and paradise.Old-fashioned Orientalism comes into play here.The word used four timesis Houris,rendered asdark-eyed maidens with swelling breasts,or as fair, high-bosomed virgins.Yet all there is in the original Arabicis that one word: Houris.Not a swelling breast nor a high bosom in sight.(Laughter)Now this may be a way of saying&quot;pure beings&quot; — like in angels —or it may be like the Greek Kouros or Kórē,an eternal youth.
时间： 8:04
zh-cn:但它真正的释义没人知道，那就是它的本质。因为可兰经很明确地说你将会成为“一个新的生命体出现在天堂”，你将被”重新创造成一种未知的形式“，在我看来比成为一个处女更具有吸引力。（笑声）还有，72这个数字从未出现过。在可兰经里，没有72个处女这么一说。这种说法是在可兰经写成后过了300年才出现的，大多数伊斯兰教学者把它等同于那些坐在云上，弹着竖琴带着翅膀的人儿。天堂其实恰恰相反。它不是童贞，它是富饶，是丰盛，是流水灌溉的花园。
en:But the truth is nobody really knows,and that&#39;s the point.Because the Koran is quite clearwhen it says that you&#39;ll be&quot;a new creation in paradise&quot;and that you will be &quot;recreatedin a form unknown to you,&quot;which seems to me a far more appealing prospectthan a virgin.(Laughter)And that number 72 never appears.There are no 72 virginsin the Koran.That idea only came into being 300 years later,and most Islamic scholars see it as the equivalentof people with wings sitting on cloudsand strumming harps.Paradise is quite the opposite.It&#39;s not virginity;it&#39;s fecundity.It&#39;s plenty.It&#39;s gardens wateredby running streams.
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 9:08
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
