时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我想告诉大家我们可以从保守的角度学到什么。我站在我渴望已久的人生舞台上坦白的告诉各位当我还是一个小孩时我已经是保守派了我曾经是少年共和党员，担任过青少年共和党的领袖实际上，我曾是最年轻的成员在所有代表团中都是1980年共和党大会上，罗纳德里根被选中他被提名为共和党的总统候选人
en:I want to talk aboutwhat we learn from conservatives.And I&#39;m at a stage in life where I&#39;m yearning for my old days,so I want to confess to youthat when I was a kid,indeed, I was a conservative.I was a Young Republican, a Teenage Republican,a leader in the Teenage Republicans.Indeed, I was the youngest memberof any delegationin the 1980 convention that elected Ronald Reaganto be the Republican nominee for president.
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:现在我知道你们在想什么。（笑声）你们在想：“网上可没这么说。”你们会想：“维基百科上没有提到呀。”实际上，这就是一个例子一个网上垃圾信息泛滥的例子在互联网上维基百科记载了这个家伙，这位来自伊利市的前宾夕法尼亚众议院国会议员曾在20岁时作为最年轻的参会者之一参加了共和党全国大会但这不对。（笑声）事实上，这条很让我难受，让我现在就把它纠正过来。（笑声）（掌声）好了，这样才完美。非常好。（笑声）好的，演讲者劳伦斯莱斯格，对了。好。最后，真相将被写到这里。看到没？完成了，差不多了，我们继续。“最年轻的共和党员” 很好，我们搞订了。请保存。这样就可以了。维基百科最终还是被修正了好吧，这已超出我们的话题了。
en:Now, I know what you&#39;re thinking.(Laughter)You&#39;re thinking, &quot;That&#39;s not what the Internets say.&quot;You&#39;re thinking, &quot;Wikipedia doesn&#39;t say this fact.&quot;And indeed, this is just one of the examplesof the junk that flows across the tubesin these Internets here.Wikipedia reports that this guy,this former congressman from Erie, Pennsylvaniawas, at the age of 20, one of the youngest peopleat the Republican National Convention,but it&#39;s just not true.(Laughter)Indeed, it drives me so nuts, let me just change this little fact here.(Laughter)(Applause)All right. Okay, so ... perfect.Perfect.(Laughter)Okay, speaker Lawrence Lessig, right.Okay.Finally, truth will be brought here.Okay, see? It&#39;s done. It&#39;s almost done. Here we go.&quot;... Youngest Republican,&quot; okay, we&#39;re finished.That&#39;s it. Please save this.Great, here we go.And ... Wikipedia is fixed, finally.Okay, but no, this is really besides the point.
时间： 2:01
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:但我希望大家想一想当我们想到保守－不过多涉及到这个1980年大会上的问题－我们考虑以下这个问题：他们去教堂。你知道有很多人去教堂。我不是说只有保守派才去教堂。我也不是在谈神和信仰。我不想讨论那些，你们知道那不是我今天的重点。他们去教堂，我指的是，他们为其他人做了很多事，并且是免费的。他们准备免费晚餐当然，他们会出售关于免费信徒晚餐的书籍他们为穷人提供食物。他们分享。他们奉献，他们无私奉献。而且同样是这些人领导着华尔街上的公司到了礼拜天，去教会去分享。而且不仅是食物。
en:But the thing I want you to think about when we think about conservatives —not so much this issue of the 1980 convention —the thing to think about is this:They go to church.Now, you know, I mean, a lot of people go to church.I&#39;m not talking about that only conservatives go to church.And I&#39;m not talking about the God thing.I don&#39;t want to get into that, you know; that&#39;s not my point.They go to church, by which I mean,they do lots of things for free for each other.They hold potluck dinners.Indeed, they sell books about potluck dinners.They serve food to poor people.They share, they give,they give away for free.And it&#39;s the very same peopleleading Wall Street firmswho, on Sundays, show upand share.And not only food, right.
时间： 2:55
zh-cn:这些非常类似的人有强烈的信仰，在许多的情境中，在有限的市场下。他们无处不在与市场背道而驰实际上他们和我们一样庆祝这种关系。但是他们非常敏锐的杜绝我们让金钱介入这种关系，否则那将变成这样的东西。他们想规范我们，那些保守派，组织我们将市场化的东西扩展到那些地方。因为他们深知，有哪里可以有市场而另外一些地方不应该存在市场，那儿我们应该保持免费从而享受彼此间的和谐关系。他们认识到，市场和非市场必需共存。
en:These very same peopleare strong believers, in lots of contexts,in the limits on the markets.They are in many important placesagainst markets.Indeed, they, like all of us, celebrate this kind of relationship.But they&#39;re very keen that we don&#39;tlet money drop into that relationship,else it turns into something like this.They want to regulate us, those conservatives,to stop us from allowing the market to spread in those places.Because they understand:There are places for the marketand places where the market should not exist,where we should be freeto enjoy the fellowship of others.They recognize: Both of these things have to live together.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:而关于保守的第二伟大的事他们关注生态是的，那是20世纪第一位伟大的共和党总统他教会我们用环境思维思考，他就是泰迪罗斯福。他们是第一个让我们了解生态学在自然资源中的地位。然后他们开始教我们在大背景中思考新制度，新经济他们深刻理解免费的重要性同时也是文化生态的重要组成那是我想让大家思考的东西
en:And the second great thing about conservatives:they get ecology.Right, it was the first great Republican president of the 20th centurywho taught us aboutenvironmental thinking — Teddy Roosevelt.They first taught us about ecologyin the context of natural resources.And then they began to teach us in the context ofinnovation, economics.They understand, in that context,&quot;free.&quot; They understand &quot;free&quot; is an importantessential part of thecultural ecology as well.That&#39;s the thing I want you to think about them.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:现在我知道你们在这里，实际上不相信我。所以这儿给大家看第一个例子。我想和你们分享我的最新英雄，朱利安桑切斯，一个自由工作者为大家而工作，“邪恶的”卡托研究所好，所以朱利安制作了这个短片他是一个糟糕的视频制作人，但是内容很棒，所以我给大家分享一点。这儿是开头。
en:Now, I knowyou don&#39;t believe me, really, here.So here&#39;s exhibit number one.I want to share with you my latest hero, Julian Sanchez,a libertarian who works at the, for many people,&quot;evil&quot; Cato Institute.Okay, so Julian made this video.He&#39;s a terrible producer of videos,but it&#39;s great content, so I&#39;m going to give you a little bit of it.So here he is beginning.
时间： 4:43
zh-cn:朱利安桑切斯：我将告诉大家一个发现一个关于混合文化衍化的方式。
en:Julian Sanchez: I&#39;m going to make an observation about the wayremix culture seems to be evolving ...
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:拉里莱斯格：所以他在开始告诉我们关于这三个视频。这是一个很棒的混音作品定为李斯特狂当然传播的很快取得巨大的成功
en:Larry Lessig: So what he does is he begins to tell usabout these three videos.This is this fantastic Brat Pack remixset to Lisztomania.Which, of course, spread virally.Hugely successful.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:（音乐）然后一些来自布鲁克林的人看到了它。他们决定做一个相同的作品（音乐）在然后，当然，是来自旧金山的人们看到了它。然后旧金山人想着他们必须也做一个同样好的作品。（音乐）他们做得相当漂亮，但是这种自由主义有很多重要的教训值得我们吸取。第一条。
en:(Music)And then some people from Brooklyn saw it.They decided they wanted to do the same.(Music)And then, of course, people from San Fransisco saw it.And San Franciscans thought they had to do the same as well.(Music)And so they&#39;re beautiful, but this libertarianhas some important lessons he wants us to learn from this.Here&#39;s lesson number one.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:朱利安：显而易见这其中有着深刻而伟大的东西。他们即兴表演模仿原来的混音而且拍摄这作品的家伙很有眼光并有不少视频编辑的经验但基本上这个作品也只是由一群好朋友相互有着真实的社交活动并聚在一起。这似乎听起来熟悉并且合理对于那些参加长时间歌唱和舞蹈派对的人们有着这样一群好友
en:JS: There&#39;s obviously also something really deeply great about this.They are acting in the sense that they&#39;reemulating the original mashup.And the guy who shot it obviously has a strong eyeand some experience with video editing.But this is also basically just a group of friendshaving an authentic social momentand screwing around together.It should feel familiar and kind of resonatefor anyone who&#39;s had a sing-a-long or a dance partywith a group of good friends.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:拉里：或者
en:LL: Or ...
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:朱利安：所以与我们看到的早期的视频有很大区别因为在这里，混合的不仅仅是一个独立的基本事物；它成为了一种社会创造力的体现。并且他不局限在自身最终诞生一种新的产品，它具有改变我们相互依赖方式的潜力。我们所有的社会互动成为了一种邀请对于这种集体表达。这使我们真实社会活了起来这就转变成了艺术。
en:JS: So that&#39;s importantly different from the earlier videos we looked atbecause here, remix isn&#39;t just aboutan individual doing something alone in his basement;it becomes an act of social creativity.And it&#39;s not just that it yieldsa different kind of product at the end,it&#39;s that potentially it changes the way that we relate to each other.All of our normal social interactionsbecome a kind of invitationto this sort of collective expression.It&#39;s our real social lives themselvesthat are transmuted into art.
时间： 7:08
zh-cn:拉里：所以这为自由主义者提出这两点
en:LL: And so then, what this libertarian draws from these two points ...
时间： 7:11
zh-cn:朱利安：一种混搭是关于独立地使用我们共享的文化好比一种与听众沟通的语言。第二阶段，社会混搭，这才是真正吧它当成一种媒介连接人与人之间的关系。首先，在这视频中，后起之秀的角色被当作一种样本用来表现每个团体的社会现实但是这些视频之间也存在对话，一旦基本结构建立起来后，它就成为了一种平台做为表述相似与区别的平台在不同的社团和物理世界中存在。
en:JS: One remix is aboutindividuals using our shared cultureas a kind of language to communicate something to an audience.Stage two, social remix,is really about using it to mediatepeople&#39;s relationships to each other.First, within each video,the Brat Pack characters are used as a kind of templatefor performing the social reality of each group.But there&#39;s also a dialogue between the videos,where, once the basic structure is established,it becomes a kind of platformfor articulating the similarities and differencesbetween the groups&#39; social and physical worlds.
时间： 7:47
zh-cn:拉里：然后，对我而言，这个评论的要点是朱利安必须说。
en:LL: And then, here&#39;s for me,the critical key to whatJulian has to say ...
时间： 7:53
zh-cn:朱利安：版权政策不仅仅关于如何奖励作品的作者那些特定种类的艺术家团体它还关系到能控制哪一层面我们可以允许它们被用来控制我们的社会现实，社会现实在现在必然地，被流行文化渗透。我认为这很重要我们在心中保留两种不同的公共物品如果我们只是将目光放在供应如何最大化我认为我们应冒险放弃这一点区分并且丰富一些在其他层面看来更重要的东西。
en:JS: Copyright policy isn&#39;t just abouthow to incentivize the productionof a certain kind of artistic commodity;it&#39;s about what level of controlwe&#39;re going to permit to be exercisedover our social realities —social realities that are now inevitablypermeated by pop culture.I think it&#39;s important that wekeep these two different kinds of public goods in mind.If we&#39;re only focused on how to maximizethe supply of one,I think we risk suppressingthis different and richerand, in some ways, maybe even more important one.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:拉里：对，正是这点。自由需要这个机会获取商业成功作为商业作品并且建立不同种类文化的机会为了这个目标，你需要很多点子用来保护公平使用使得这种启发可能正如自由主义者告诉我们的，在这两种创造性的文化之间，有着一个商业的和另一个可分享的文化重点是他们，他，这里，获得那种文化。
en:LL: Right. Bingo. Point.Freedom needs this opportunityto both have the commercial successof the great commercial worksand the opportunityto build this different kind of culture.And for that to happen, you needideas like fair use to be central and protected,to enable this kind of innovation,as this libertarian tells us,between these two creative cultures,a commercial and a sharing culture.The point is they, he, here,gets that culture.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:现在，我担心的是，我们民主党人，常常，不是那么多。好，以这个大公司为例子。在美好的过去，共和党人曾经经营这个公司，他们的出色工作建立了过去的辉煌。所有杰出的迪斯尼作品都是来源于其他作品那些作品属于公共领域的并且被重新解构或者等到他们进入了公有领域再重构他们，庆祝这个附加的创意事实上，米老鼠自身出现在“汽船威利号”的形象就是借鉴当时非常流行的“汽船比利号”由巴斯特·基顿创作他才是一位杰出的再创作大师他值得称颂拥有这种创造力
en:Now, my concern is, we Dems,too often, not so much.All right, take for example this great company.In the good old days when this Republican ran that company,their greatest work was work that built on the past, right.All of the great Disney workswere works that took works thatwere in the public domain and remixed them,or waited until they entered the public domain to remix them,to celebrate this add-on remix creativity.Indeed, Mickey Mouse himself, of course,as &quot;Steamboat Willie,&quot;is a remix of the then, very dominant,very popular &quot;Steamboat Bill&quot;by Buster Keaton.This man was a remixer extraordinaire.He is the celebration and idealof exactly this kind of creativity.
时间： 9:51
zh-cn:但是公司把历史掩盖了通过政治黑幕背后的交易给这位民主党人截然不同的待遇幕后的罪魁祸首正是臭名昭著的松尼波诺著作权期延长法案将现有的版权年限延长了20年所以没有人可以对迪斯尼做他们曾对格林兄弟所做的事现在当我们试图挑战这点时都要去最高法院接受那儿一群保守派的审判如果我们让他们醒悟过来看到这一点然后推翻它。我们有诺贝尔得主的帮助包括这位右翼人士诺贝尔奖得主，米尔顿弗里德曼曾说过他将加入我们部门只要“脑残”这个词能贴在办公室的某个地方。(笑声）但很明显，没有脑残曾经在这里存在过当民主党通过并签署法案将它正式变为法律现在，我进行一个注解，松尼波诺，也许你会说，他曾是共和党人，但是我不买账。这家伙绝不是共和党。
en:But then the company passesthrough this dark stageto this Democrat.Wildly different.This is the mastermind behindthe eventual passage of what we callthe Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act,extending the term of existing copyrightsby 20 years,so that no one could do to Disneywhat Disney did to the Brothers Grimm.Now, when we tried to challenge this,going to the Supreme Court, getting the Supreme Court, the bunch of conservatives there —if we could get them to wake up to this — to strike it down,we had the assistance of Nobel Prize winnersincluding this right-wingNobel Prize winner, Milton Friedman,who said he would join our briefonly if the word &quot;no brainer&quot;was in the brief somewhere.(Laughter)But apparently, no brainsexisted in this placewhen Democrats passed and signedthis bill into law.Now, tiny little quibble of a footnote:Sonny Bono, you might say, was a Republican,but I don&#39;t buy it.This guy is no Republican.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:好的，举第二个例子，想一想这个文化英雄，左派人物，这个角色的创造者。看看他建立的网站：“星球大战”恶搞，邀请人们来这里使用他们的创作激情去吸引新一代的注意力对于这个杰出的重要文化象征。读一下许可证。对于这些再创作者的许可赋予了所有权利混搭作品版权属于卢卡斯这些混搭是卢卡斯所有的。实际上，你添加的任何元素，也许是一段音乐，卢卡斯有了一个全世界范围的版权免费的去开拓。在这里没有公认的创作者。创作者没有任何权力。在故事里，创作者成了农民工。我们应该记住谁雇佣了这些佃农?民主党，不是吗？
en:Okay, for a second example,think about this cultural hero,icon on the Left,creator of this character.Look at the site that he built: &quot;Star Wars&quot; MashUps,inviting people to come and use their creative energyto produce a new generation of attentiontowards this extraordinarily important cultural icon.Read the license.The license for these remixersassigns all of the rightsto the remix back to Lucas.The mashup is owned by Lucas.Indeed, anything you add to the mashup,music you might add,Lucas has a worldwide perpetual rightto exploit that for free.There is no creator here to be recognized.The creator doesn&#39;t have any rights.The creator is a sharecropper in this story.And we should rememberwho employed the sharecroppers:the Democrats, right?
时间：11:50
zh-cn:所以要点是共和党在这认识到有这样的需求需要所有权尊重所有权，我们应该给予创作者的，再创作者，拥有者，财产所有者，版权所有者这个非常棒的玩意而不是一代佃农。现在关于开放的教训。我们的生命是分享的活动，至少部分是。即使是高盛公司的老板，也有分享的部分。为了使得这样的分享可以实现，我们必须保护好公平使用的空间。
en:So the point is the Republicans hererecognize that there&#39;s a certain needof ownership,a respect for ownership,the respect we should give the creator,the remixer, the owner, the property owner,the copyright ownerof this extraordinarily powerful stuff,and not a generation of sharecroppers.Now, I think there are lessons we should learn here,lessons about openness.Our lives are sharing activities,at least in part.Even for the head of Goldman Sachs,at least in part.And for that sharing activity to happen, we have to havewell-protected spaces of fair use.
时间：12:35
zh-cn:这是第一点。第二点：分享的生态环境需要自由在自由中创作。自由意味着没有任何人的允许，有创作的能力。第三点：我们需要尊重创作者，这些混搭作品的作者通过将权力与他们直接相连。这也可以解释为何右翼会热衷于非盈利的创意共享（Creativecommons）实际上，这不只是一个右翼非盈利活动让我把它联系到创意共享即让作者有了这个简单的方法标注他们的内容在自由的条件下只要他们想加上。
en:That&#39;s number one. Number two:This ecology of sharingneeds freedomwithin which to create.Freedom, which means without permission from anyone,the ability to create.And number three: We need torespect the creator,the creator of these remixesthrough rights that aredirectly tied to them.Now, this explains the right-wing nonprofitCreative Commons.Actually, it&#39;s not a right-wing nonprofit,but of course — let me just tie it here —the Creative Commons, which isoffering authors this simple way to mark their contentwith the freedomsthey intended to carry.
时间：13:19
zh-cn:所以我们从一个“版权所有”的世界变为“版权部分所有”的世界所以大家可以知道他们赋予作品内容的这种自由，建立和创作基于这种自由创新已有版权的作品。这些我们发明的工具使得分享成为了一部分通过许可明确了自由创作的权力在没有事先允许的情况下因为一开始就给予了许可，以及对原创者的尊重因为它建立在原创者的版权之上已经被允许自由使用。这揭示了泛右翼论阴谋很明显围绕这些协议不断发展，至今已有3亿5000万数字作品存在并允许自由使用以这样的方式。
en:So that we go from a &quot;all rights reserved&quot; worldto a &quot;some rights reserved&quot; worldso that people can know the freedoms they have attached to the content,building and creatingon the basis of thiscreative copyrighted work.These tools that we builtenable this sharing in partsthrough licenses that make it clearand a freedom to createwithout requiring permission firstbecause the permission has already been grantedand a respect for the creator because it builds upona copyright the creatorhas licensed freely.And it explains the vast right-wing conspiracythat&#39;s obviously developed around these licenses,as now more than 350 million digital objectsare out there, licensed freelyin this way.
时间：14:06
zh-cn:现在那是一幅创造性生态图，一幅生态平衡的由创作环境，这样的创作生态我们现在拥有了么？正如大家知道的，没有几个人相信我们有。我就在现实的创作环境中栽了个跟头就在上周。我制作了一个视频是基于我的一个演讲我把它上传到了Youtube然后我就收到了Youtube发来的电邮莫名其妙的告知我这些内容不可思议的属于WMG公司因为符合他们作品的特征我并没怎么当回事
en:Now that picture of an ecology of creativity,the picture of an ecologyof balanced creativity,is that the ecology of creativity we have right now?Well, as you all know,not many of us believe we do.I tripped on the reality of this ecology of creativityjust last week.I created a video which was basedon a Wireside Chat that I&#39;d given,and I uploaded it to YouTube.I then got this email from YouTubeweirdly notifying methat there was content in thatowned by the mysterious WMGthat matched their content ID.So I didn&#39;t think much about it.
时间：14:46
zh-cn:接下来在推特上，有个人和我说，你在Youube上的谈话被判侵权。你是故意的吗？想象一下如果我有这样险恶的阴谋去揭露新千年数字版权法案显而易见的瑕疵。我答道：“不。”我根本没有想到那样做。但随后我上了那个网站我所有的语音被静音了。我全长45分钟的视频全部没有声音因为这里面有一点点内容，关于公平使用视频，包含了华纳音乐集团的音乐。现在，有趣的是，他们依然为那段音乐卖广告，如果你播放了那段静音的视频。你仍然可以购买那段音乐，但你听不到任何声音因为被静音了。
en:And then on Twitter, somebody said to me,&quot;Your talk on YouTube was DMCA&#39;d. Was that your purpose?&quot;imagining that I had this deep conspiracyto reveal the obvious flaws in the DMCA.I answered, &quot;No.&quot; I didn&#39;t even think about it.But then I went to the siteand all of the audio in my site had been silenced.My whole 45-minute videohad been silencedbecause there were snippets in that video,a video about fair use,that included Warner Music Group music.Now, interestingly,they still sold ads for that music,if you played the silent video.You could still buy the music,but you couldn&#39;t hear anythingbecause it had been silenced.
时间：15:29
zh-cn:所以我做了目前政府让我必须做的去自由使用YouTube谈论公平使用。我打开那个页面，我必须回答这些问题。然后在一个令人叫绝的的像巴特·辛普森一样，幼稚的方式你必须输入这些单词并得到允许去宣称你的言论自由我感到我回到了小学三年级，我保证我不会把大头钉再放到老师椅子上。我保证我不会把大头钉再放到老师椅子上。这很荒唐。太离奇了。这是对自由系统的扭曲我们应该倍受鼓舞
en:So I did what the current regimesays I must doto be free to useYouTube to talk about fair use.I went to this site, and I had to answer these questions.And then in an extraordinarilyBart Simpson-like, juvenile wayyou&#39;ve actually got to type out these wordsand get them rightto reassert your freedom to speak.And I felt like I was in third grade again.&quot;I will not put tacks on the teacher&#39;s chair.I will not put tacks on the teacher&#39;s chair.&quot;This is absurd.It is outrageous.It is an extraordinary perversion of the system of freedomwe should be encouraging.
时间：16:11
zh-cn:我想问的是：“谁在为此而奋斗？”是的，有趣的是，在上次总统大选中，谁是头号积极分子在反对这个行政系统对在线发言的限制？是约翰麦凯恩。一份有一份批评Youube的封锁倡导更值得尊敬的公平使用凭借他们杰出的注意力并终止这个系统，让他的竞选活动无数次的被因特网抛弃。
en:And the question I ask you is: Who&#39;s fighting it?Well, interestingly, in the last presidential election,who was the number one, activeopponent of this system of regulationin online speech?John McCain.Letter after letter attacking YouTube&#39;s refusalto be more respectful of fair usewith their extraordinary notice and take down system,that led his campaign so many timesto be thrown off the Internet.
时间：16:38
zh-cn:现在，讲讲我自己的故事，我美好的的右派疯狂岁月。让我回到当下，现在当我作为一个小小的左倾分子至少我是一个左撇子我想知道，我们能否站在左翼期望去建立一个自由的生态系统，就现在，在世界的某个地点我们知道有股强大的力量会反对它，甚至像这位左派的领袖致力推进法案有效地禁止那些要求开放给政府资助地科研？总统本人，曾支持过一个秘密协商的进行，结果把我们困在了一个愚蠢的系统里即数字千年版权法我们已被迫适应并被置于棒球中三震出局的境地当然越来越多的国家也卷入了这个适应的过程。没有一例改革的例子被推动过。并且我们将看不到任何改变在这个系统里至少近期无望。
en:Now, that was the story of me then,my good old days of right-wing lunacy.Let me come back to now,now when I&#39;m a little leftist —I&#39;m certainly left-handed, so at least a lefty —And I wonder, can we on the Leftexpect to build thisecology of freedom, now,in a world wherewe know the extraordinarily powerfulinfluences against it,where even icons of the Left like thisentertain and push billsthat would effectively ban the requirementof open access for government-funded research?The president, who has supporteda process that secretly negotiates agreements,which effectively lock us into the insane systemof DMCAthat we have adoptedand likely lock us down a path of three strikes, you&#39;re outthat, of course, the rest of the world are increasingly adopting.Not a single example of reformhas been produced yet.And we&#39;re not going to see this changein this systemanytime soon.
时间：17:51
zh-cn:所以这是关于开放的教训我认为大家都要吸取开放式一种奉献奉献一系列的价值。我们需要强调那些价值。自由的价值。它具有公共团体的价值。它具有制约规章的价值。它具有尊重创造者的价值。现在，假如我们可以学到这些价值从右翼那里获得哪怕一点点影响，假如我们可以争取并加入他们，也许我们可以做一点交易。我们从左派（民主党）学到这些价值，也许他们将对医疗进行改革或者对全球变暖进行立法等等。
en:So here&#39;s the lessons of opennessthat I think we need to learn.Openness is a commitmentto a certain set of values.We need to speak of those values.The value of freedom. It&#39;s a value of community.It&#39;s a value of the limits in regulation.It&#39;s a value respecting the creator.Now, if we can learn those valuesfrom at least some influences on the Right,if we can take them and incorporate them,maybe we could do a little trade.We learn those values on the Left,and maybe they&#39;ll do health careor global warming legislation or something in the Right.
时间：18:27
zh-cn:无论如何，请和我一起传播这些价值观。
en:Anyway, please join mein teaching these values.
时间：18:31
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：18:33
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
