时间： 0:11
zh-cn:去年，当我站在这里的时候，我在谈论我横跨北极的游泳。那还是发生在3年前，对我则好像是昨天一般。我还记得我站在冰层的边缘，就要扎进水里，然后我自己想到，我再也再也不要看到地球上的这个地方，这里是如此的让人恐惧。那里的水是全黑色。水的温度是负1.7摄氏度，华氏29度。那水里就是翻动的冰块。然后一个念头在我脑中划过：如果这场泳出了点问题，我这冰冻的身体要花多长时间才能沉到这4500米的底部呢？然后我告诫我自己，我要把这个念头尽快的抛在我的脑后。能让我扎入这冰冷的水里然后游了4千米的唯一方法就是听着我的iPod，让我自己全力运转起来，我听了所有的歌，从华丽的歌剧到吹牛老爹，然后全身心的投入没有什么比下定决心还要厉害的 －－然后走到冰的边缘扎入水里。
en:Last year when I was here, I was speaking to you about a swimwhich I did across the North Pole.And while that swim took place three years ago,I can remember it as if it was yesterday.I remember standing on the edge of the ice,about to dive into the water,and thinking to myself, I have never everseen any place on this earthwhich is just so frightening.The water is completely black.The water is minus 1.7 degrees centigrade,or 29 degrees Fahrenheit.It&#39;s flipping freezing in that water.And then a thought came across my mind:if things go pear-shaped on this swim,how long will it take for my frozen bodyto sink the four and a half kilometersto the bottom of the ocean?And then I said to myself, I&#39;ve just got to get this thoughtout of my mind as quickly as possible.And the only way I can diveinto that freezing cold waterand swim a kilometeris by listening to my iPod and really revving myself up,listening to everything from beautiful operaall the way across to Puff Daddy,and then committing myself a hundred percent —there is nothing more powerful than the made-up mind —and then walking up to the edge of the iceand just diving into the water.
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:这次游泳花了我18分50秒，但好像是18天一样。我记得当我从水里出来时我的手时如此的疼痛然后我看着我的手指，我的手指真的像香肠一样粗因为－－你们知道了，我们身体一部分由水组成 －－当水结冰时会膨胀，这样我手指的里细胞就冷冻了，膨胀了炸裂了。我从水里上岸的一瞬间的想法时这样的：我一生中再也再也不要去在冰冷的水里游泳了。
en:And that swim took me18 minutes and 50 seconds,and it felt like 18 days.And I remember getting out of the waterand my hands feeling so painfuland looking down at my fingers,and my fingers were literally the size of sausagesbecause — you know, we&#39;re made partially of water —when water freezes it expands,and so the cells in my fingershad frozen and expandedand burst.And the most immediate thought when I came out of that waterwas the following:I&#39;m never, evergoing to do another cold water swimin my life again.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:就这样，去年，我听到了喜马拉雅山以及那里融化的－－（笑）因为气候变化所融化的冰川。我听说了这个湖泊，映佳湖。这个湖是几年前由于冰川融化所形成的。这些冰川顺山而下然后在这里留下了这个大湖。由此我坚信我要去看见的喜马拉雅就是我下一个在地球上的战场。将近20亿的人口 －－世界上三分之一的地球人口 －－依靠着喜马拉雅山的水源。而世界人口照这个速度发展下去，而冰川水源的提供 －－由于气候的变化 －－下降的如此之快，我像我们就有了一个十分不稳定的威胁。北方，我们由中国；南方，我们有印度，巴基斯坦，孟加拉，和其它所有国家。
en:Anyway, last year, I heard about the Himalayasand the melting of the — (Laughter)and the melting of the glaciersbecause of climate change.I heard about this lake, Lake Imja.This lake has been formed in the last couple of yearsbecause of the melting of the glacier.The glacier&#39;s gone all the way up the mountainand left in its place this big lake.And I firmly believethat what we&#39;re seeing in the Himalayasis the next great, big battlegroundon this earth.Nearly two billion people —so one in three people on this earth —rely on the water from the Himalayas.And with a population increasing as quickly as it is,and with the water supply from these glaciers —because of climate change —decreasing so much,I think we have a real risk of instability.North, you&#39;ve got China; south, you&#39;ve India, Pakistan, Bangladesh,all these countries.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:这样我决定了登上珠峰，地球上的最高峰，如何在珠峰下游一次具有象征意义的泳。我不知道，你们是否有机会去珠峰，但是要去那的话，是一个考验。28只巨大的牦牛载着所有的仪器登上山峰 －－我不仅仅带这我的泳裤。还有一个摄像团队这个摄像团队，会向世界各地直播。这次游泳的挑战不仅仅只有海拔。我想做的是在5300米的海平面上游泳。所以直达天堂。这里呼吸十分，十分困难。你会有高原反应。你会感到有一个人不停的那着一把锤子在敲你的后脑勺。
en:And so I decidedto walk up to Mt. Everest,the highest mountain on this earth,and go and do a symbolic swimunderneath the summitof Mt. Everest.Now, I don&#39;t know if any of you have had the opportunity to go to Mt. Everest,but it&#39;s quite an ordeal getting up there.28 great, big, powerful yakscarrying all the equipment up onto this mountain —I don&#39;t just have my Speedo,but there&#39;s a big film crew who thensend all the images around the world.The other thing which was so challenging about this swimis not just the altitude.I wanted to do the swim at 5,300 meters above sea level.So it&#39;s right up in the heavens.It&#39;s very, very difficult to breath. You get altitude sickness.I feels like you&#39;ve got a man standing behind you with a hammerjust hitting your head all the time.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:这还不是最差的。最糟糕的是，这一年他们决定在珠峰上做一个大扫除。许多人死在珠峰上，然后今年，他们决定收回珠峰上所有的尸体然后把他们带下山。而当你想上山做一些事情一些没有人做过的事情，事实上，鱼都没游过。在5300米的海拔高度上，没有任何鱼在那里游过。当你尝试着去做这些事情，然后你看到这些尸体和你擦肩而过，这让人不禁有些气馁，也让你就会清晰的认识到自然比我们要强大多了。
en:That&#39;s not the worst part of it.The worst part was this year was the year where they decidedto do a big cleanup operation on Mt. Everest.Many, many people have died on Mt. Everest,and this was the year they decided to goand recover all the bodies of the mountaineersand then bring them down the mountain.And when you&#39;re walking up the mountainto attempt to do somethingwhich no human has ever done before, and, in fact, no fish —there are no fish up there swimming at 5,300 meters —When you&#39;re trying to do that,and then the bodies are coming past you,it humbles you,and you also realize very, very clearlythat nature is so much more powerfulthan we are.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:然后我们就沿着这条路一直走上去。然后在我们的右手边是巨大的昆布冰川。然后，我们在沿路经过所看到的冰川的都是一大块融化的冰块。然后我们到达在珠峰下的一个小湖这然后我开始准备自己，像往常一样准备自己，因为这样的游泳方式会是十分艰难的。我带上我的iPod, 我听听歌，我让我能有多激奋就多激奋－－但是是可以控制的激奋 －－然后我把我自己扎进水里。
en:And we walked up this pathway,all the way up.And to the right hand side of uswas this great Khumbu Glacier.And all the way along the glacier we sawthese big pools of melting ice.And then we got up to this small lakeunderneath the summit of Mt. Everest,and I prepared myselfthe same way as I&#39;ve always prepared myself,for this swim which was going to be so very difficult.I put on my iPod, I listened to some music,I got myself as aggressive as possible —but controlled aggression —and then I hurled myselfinto that water.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:我尽力的游着最起码在前一百米，然后，我突然意识到，我面临一个巨大的问题。我几乎不能呼吸。我喘了一口气。然后我开始呛水了，这导致我在水里呕吐。这一切发生的如此之快然后 －－ 我不知到是怎么发生的 －－ 但是我沉入水底。但幸运的是，水比较的浅，我可以从湖底跳起来然后喘另一口气。然后我说道，坚持，坚持，坚持。我继续划了五到六下水，然后我就筋疲力尽了，我沉入湖底。但是我不知从哪来的力气，我可以就这样把自己从湖底以最快的速度弄到湖的岸边。我听说过溺水是你可以死的最安详的方式。我从来没有听过这样的胡说八道。（笑）这是你们所感受过的最恐惧，最惊慌的感觉。
en:I swam as quickly as I couldfor the first hundred meters,and then I realized very, very quickly,I had a huge problem on my hands.I could barely breathe.I was gasping for air.I then began to choke,and then it quickly led to me vomiting in the water.And it all happened so quickly:I then — I don&#39;t know how it happened — but I went underwater.And luckily, the water was quite shallow,and I was able to push myself off the bottom of the lakeand get up and then take another gasp of air.And then I said, carry on. Carry on. Carry on.I carried on for another five or six strokes,and then I had nothing in my body,and I went down to the bottom of the lake.And I don&#39;t where I got it from,but I was able to somehowpull myself up and as quickly as possibleget to the side of the lake.I&#39;ve heard it said that drowningis the most peaceful death that you can have.I have never, ever heardsuch utter bollocks.(Laughter)It is the most frightening and panicky feelingthat you can have.
时间： 6:10
zh-cn:我把我自己拽到湖岸。我的队友抓住了我，然后我们以最快的速度下山－－在碎石中－－到达我们的营地。在那里，我们坐下来，然后我们做了一下在珠峰哪里出错的报告。然后我的队员直接告诉我。他们说道，Lewis, 你要有一个剧烈的战术变化如果你想完成这个游泳。你必须忘掉在23年里所学到的游泳里所有的东西。以及忘掉你在英国部队里所学习的，关于那些速度和激奋，你要先放在一旁。我们想让你花两天走上山。花点时间休息和思考。我们想让你花两天走上山。不要游的太快，但是慢慢的游。不用自由泳，但是用蛙泳。然后记住，不要游太激奋。是时候谦逊地去游泳了。
en:I got myself to the side of the lake.My crew grabbed me,and then we walked as quickly as we coulddown — over the rubble —down to our camp.And there, we sat down,and we did a debrief about what had gone wrongthere on Mt. Everest.And my team just gave it to me straight.They said, Lewis, you need to havea radical tactical shiftif you want to do this swim.Every single thing which you have learnedin the past 23 years of swimming,you must forget.Every single thing which you learnedwhen you were serving in the British army,about speed and aggression,you put that to one side.We want you to walk up the hill in another two days&#39; time.Take some time to rest and think about things.We want you to walk up the mountain in two days&#39; time,and instead of swimming fast,swim as slowly as possible.Instead of swimming crawl, swim breaststroke.And remember, never ever swim with aggression.This is the time to swimwith real humility.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:所以我们又走了回去两天后回到山峰下。我站在那在湖的边缘，然后望向珠峰 －－她是地球上最美丽的山峰之一 －－我就像这样慢慢的对我自己说道。然后我游过了这个湖泊。我无法告诉你们当我到达湖的另一边时我感觉有多好。
en:And so we walked back upto the mountain two days later.And I stood thereon the edge of the lake,and I looked up at Mt. Everest —and she is one of the most beautiful mountains on the earth —and I said to myself, just do this slowly.And I swam across the lake.And I can&#39;t begin to tell youhow good I feltwhen I came to the other side.
时间： 7:39
zh-cn:但是我从珠峰学习到两个十分，十分重要的教训。我十分感谢我队伍中的夏尔巴告诉了我这些。第一个就是一个事情无论原来是怎样的，并不代表在未来就会怎样。相同的，现在，在我做一件事情之前，我问到我自己，我需要怎样的一种态度才能成功的完成我的任务。然后这样来想一想气候变化，那是，说实话，珠峰和其他所有的问题－－不能因为我们已经像这样生活了这么长时间，不能因为我们已经像这样消费了那么长时间不能因为我们像这样人口增长了这么长时间，就意味着我们可以这样像以往一样坚持下去。警告信号就在那。当我出生时，世界的人口只有35亿。现在有68亿然后我们预计在2050年有90亿。
en:But I learned two very, veryimportant lessons there on Mt. Everest,and I thank my team of Sherpas who taught me this.The first one isthat just because something has worked in the past so well,doesn&#39;t mean it&#39;s going to work in the future.And similarly,now, before I do anything,I ask myself what type of mindsetdo I requireto successfully complete a task.And taking that into the world of climate change —which is, frankly,the Mt. Everest of all problems —just because we&#39;ve lived the way we have lived for so long,just because we have consumed the way we have for so longand populated the earth the way we have for so long,doesn&#39;t mean that we can carry onthe way we are carrying on.The warning signs are all there.When I was born, the world&#39;s populationwas 3.5 billion people.We&#39;re now 6.8 billion people,and we&#39;re expected to be 9 billion peopleby 2050.
时间： 8:40
zh-cn:这里就有第二个教训，剧烈的战术改变。我今天来到这里问你们：你在你的环境里能做出怎样的剧烈的战术转变才能保证我们的子孙能居住在一个安全的一个保险的世界，最重要的是，一个可持续发展的世界？然后我要求你，请你们，从这里出发然后想象你要做怎样的激进的战术变化，才能做出巨大的改变，如何下定决心去做。些关于这些变化的博客，微博，谈论一下，然后全身心投入。因为如果我们全身心投入，只有很少事情是不可能的。
en:And then the second lesson,the radical, tactical shift.And I&#39;ve come here to ask you today:what radical tactical shiftcan you take in your relationship to the environment,which will ensurethat our children and our grandchildrenlive in a safe worldand a secure world,and most importantly, in a sustainable world?And I ask you, please, to go away from hereand think about that oneradical tactical shiftwhich you could make,which will make that big difference,and then commit a hundred percent to doing it.Blog about it, tweet about it, talk about it,and commit a hundred percent,because very, very few thingsare impossible to achieveif we really put our whole minds to it.
时间： 9:28
zh-cn:所以，十分感谢你们。
en:So thank you very, very much.
时间： 9:30
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
