时间： 0:12
zh-cn:想到尼泊尔，我们总是想到冰雪覆盖的喜马拉雅山，还有高山湖泊中水晶般透明而平静的湖水，又或是那它广袤的草原。但有些人也许没有意识到的是，在喜马拉雅山山麓，那里气候更加温暖，有更多的绿地，那里生活着种类繁多的野生动物，包括独角犀、亚洲象和孟加拉虎。但不幸的是，这些野生动物一直以来都面临着偷猎者的威胁，这些偷猎者为了获取它们身体上的某一部分而捕杀它们。为了阻止这些偷猎行为，大量的士兵跟护林员被派遣去保护尼泊尔的国家公园，但这并不是一个轻松的任务，因为这些士兵必须徒步或者骑着大象巡逻几千公顷的森林。这也是一项危险的任务，因为他们可能会与偷猎者交火，所以，尼泊尔一直在寻找保护森林与野生动物的新方法。
en:When we think of Nepal,we tend to think of the snow-capped mountainsof the Himalayas,the crystal-clear still waters of its alpine lakes,or the huge expanse of its grasslands.What some of us may not realizeis that in the Himalayan foothills,where the climate is much warmerand the landscape much greener,there lives a great diversity of wildlife,including the one-horned rhinoceros,the Asian elephantand the Bengal tiger.But unfortunately, these animalsare under constant threat from poacherswho hunt and kill them for their body parts.To stop the killing of these animals,battalions of soldiers and rangersare sent to protect Nepal&#39;s national parks,but that is not an easy task,because these soldiers have to patrolthousands of hectares of forests on footor elephant backs.It is also risky for these soldierswhen they get into gunfights with poachers,and therefore Nepal is always lookingfor new ways to help with protecting the forestsand wildlife.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:最近，尼泊尔获得了一样新工具用来对抗猎杀野生动物的罪行，这就是无人飞机，更确切地说，是环境保护无人机。在大约一年的时间中，我和我的同事一直在为尼泊尔制造无人机，并培训公园保卫人员如何使用这些无人机。无人机并不仅仅给你鸟瞰的视野，它也可以捕捉到地面上细微的高分辨率的物体的图像。例如，图中，炎热的夏天，一对犀牛正在尼泊尔的一处低地沼泽中洗凉水澡。我们相信，无人机具有巨大的潜力，不只是用来对抗偷猎行为，也可以用来监察野生动物的健康状况。
en:Well recently, Nepal acquired a new toolin the fight against wildlife crime,and these are drones,or more specifically, conservation drones.For about a year now, my colleagues and Ihave been building drones for Nepaland training the park protection personnelon the use of these drones.Not only does a drone give youa bird&#39;s-eye view of the landscape,but it also allows you to capture detailed,high-resolution images of objects on the ground.This, for example, is a pair of rhinocerostaking a cooling bath on a hot summer dayin the lowlands of Nepal.Now we believe that drones havetremendous potential,not only for combating wildlife crime,but also for monitoring the healthof these wildlife populations.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:那么，究竟什么是无人机？我正在谈论的这种无人机简单来讲就是一种搭载了自动驾驶仪的飞行器，这个自动驾驶仪包含了一个微型计算机，一个全球定位系统，一个指南仪，一个气压高度计，以及一些其他的传感器。一个像这样的无人机是用来载重有用的东西的，比如一个摄影机或者一个照相机。同时也需要一个软件给使用者编写任务程序，来告诉无人机飞向哪里。
en:So what is a drone?Well, the kind of drone I&#39;m talking aboutis simply a model aircraftfitted with an autopilot system,and this autopilot unit contains a tiny computer,a GPS, a compass, a barometric altimeterand a few other sensors.Now a drone like thisis meant to carry a useful payload,such as a video cameraor a photographic camera.It also requires a software that allows the userto program a mission,to tell the drone where to go.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:当人们听到一架环境保护无人机仅仅只有这四部分组成的时候，他们总是很惊奇，但当我告诉他们这些部件的价格并不是那么贵的时候，他们显得更加惊讶。事实上，一架环境保护无人机并不会比一台好的笔记本电脑，或者一个像样的双目望远镜更加昂贵。
en:Now people I talk to are often surprisedwhen they hear that these are the onlyfour components that make a conservation drone,but they are even more surprisedwhen I tell them how affordablethese components are.The facts is, a conservation dronedoesn&#39;t cost very much more thana good laptop computeror a decent pair of binoculars.
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:那么现在你已经制造了自己的无人机，你肯定想让它飞起来。但是如何使一架无人机飞起来呢？事实是，并不是你让它飞起来，因为，无人机自己就可以飞。你所需要做的仅仅是设定一个任务，告诉无人机飞向哪里。但是你只需要在Google地图上用开源软件点击一些路径点。这些任务可以仅仅只是简单的几个路径点，或者他们可以更长一些更加复杂一些，比如沿着河流飞行。有时候，我们让无人机按照一个除草机的路径飞行，为一片区域拍照，这些图片可以被处理成为那片森林的地图。其他的研究者，也许想要让无人机沿着森林的边界飞行，来阻止偷猎者或者其他试图非法进入森林的人。
en:So now that you&#39;ve builtyour own conservation drone,you probably want to go fly it,but how does one fly a drone?Well, actually, you don&#39;t,because the drone flies itself.All you have to do is to program a missionto tell the drone where to fly.But you simply do that by clicking ona few way points on the Google Maps interfaceusing the open-source software.Those missions could be as simpleas just a few way points,or they could be slightly longerand more complicated,to fly along a river system.Sometimes, we fly the dronein a lawnmower-type patternand take pictures of that area,and those pictures can be processedto produce a map of that forest.Other researchers might want to fly the dronealong the boundaries of a forestto watch out for poachers or peoplewho might be trying to enter the forest illegally.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:不管你的目的是什么，一旦你设定了它，你只需要上传它到无人机的自动飞行系统，把你的无人机带到空旷的地方，把它掷向空中来使它起飞。我们经常让无人机沿途拍摄照片，录制录像，通常这时候，我们就会给自己一杯咖啡，坐下，放松几分钟，尽管也会有人坐下后开始担忧无人机会不会安全返航。通常它都能返航，它甚至可以自动着陆。
en:Now whatever your mission is,once you&#39;ve programmed it,you simply upload it to the autopilot system,bring your drone to the field,and launch it simply by tossing it in the air.And often we&#39;ll go about this missiontaking pictures or videos along the way,and usually at that point,we will go grab ourselves a cup of coffee,sit back, and relax for the next few minutes,although some of us sit backand panic for the next few minutesworrying that the drone will not return.Usually it does, and when it does,it even lands automatically.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:那么我们能用环境保护无人机做什么呢？当我们制造我们的第一架原型机时，我们的主要任务就是让它飞到一片遥远的雨林，在印度尼西亚的北苏门答腊，去寻找一种大型猿类，即红毛猩猩的巢穴。我们这样做是因为我们想知道在那片雨林中还剩下多少只红毛猩猩。通常传统的搜寻红毛猩猩的方法是带上沉重的装备徒步穿越雨林，用双目望远镜在雨林顶端寻找，你可能会找到一只红毛猩猩，或者它的巢穴。你可以想象这是一件多么耗费时间，耗费人力，多么昂贵的工程，所以我们希望无人机能够极大地减少统计在印度尼西亚和在其他东南亚地区的红毛猩猩的数量的成本。所以当我们用相机找到第一对红毛猩猩巢穴的时候，我们非常兴奋。这就是那张照片，第一张用无人机拍摄的红毛猩猩巢穴的照片。我们在东南亚的不同地方都拍到了很多这样的巢穴的照片，现在我们正和计算机科学家们一起开发计算方法，用我们已有的数千张照片自动计算巢穴的数量。
en:So what can we do with a conservation drone?Well, when we built our first prototype drone,our main objective was to fly it overa remote rainforest in North Sumatra, Indonesia,to look for the nest of a species of great apeknown as the orangutan.The reason we wanted to do that was becausewe needed to know how many individualsof this species are still left in that forest.Now the traditional method of surveyingfor orangutans is to walk the forest on footcarrying heavy equipmentand to use a pair of binocularsto look up in the treetopswhere you might find an orangutan or its nest.Now as you can imagine,that is a very time-consuming, labor-intensive,and costly process,so we were hoping that dronescould significantly reduce the cost of surveyingfor orangutan populations in Indonesiaand elsewhere in Southeast Asia.So we were very excited when we capturedour first pair of orangutan nests on camera.And this is it; this is the first ever pictureof orangutan nests taken with a drone.Since then we have taken picturesof dozens of these nestsfrom around various parts of Southeast Asia,and we&#39;re now working with computer scientiststo develop algorithms that can automatically countthe number of nests from the thousandsof photos we&#39;ve collected so far.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:但是，红毛猩猩巢穴，不是无人机可以侦测到的唯一的东西。这是一个野生红毛猩猩在一棵棕榈树顶开心地进食，完全没有察觉到我们的无人机正飞行在它的头顶，不是一次，而是很多次。我们也拍摄了很多其他动物的照片，包括在加蓬的森林水牛，大象，甚至乌龟巢。
en:But nests are not the only objectsthese drones can detect.This is a wild orangutanhappily feeding on top of a palm tree,seemingly oblivious to our dronethat was flying overhead,not once but several times.We&#39;ve also taken pictures of other animalsincluding forest buffalos in Gabon,elephants, and even turtle nests.
时间： 6:26
zh-cn:但是除了拍摄野生动物的照片，我们也拍摄它们的栖息地，因为我们想要跟踪这些栖息地的生态状况。有时候，我们会把画面缩小来观察整个大环境是否正在发生变化。这是一片苏门答腊的油棕榈种植园。现在，在苏门答腊，油棕榈种植是滥伐森林的主要推动力，所以我们想要用这种新的无人机技术跟踪这些种植园在东南亚的扩散。无人机也可以被用于跟踪非法的木材砍伐。这是一张被最近刚砍伐过的森林的照片，也是在苏门答腊。你甚至还可以看到留在地上的被处理过的木板。
en:But besides taking picturesof just the animals themselves,we also take pictures of the habitatsthese animals live in,because we want to keep trackof the health of these habitats.Sometimes, we zoom out a littleand look at other things that might be happeningin the landscape.This is an oil palm plantation in Sumatra.Now oil palm is a major driver of deforestationin that part of the world,so we wanted to use this new drone technologyto keep track of the spread of these plantationsin Southeast Asia.But drones could also be used to keep track ofillegal logging activities.This is a recently logged forest,again in Sumatra.You could even still see the processedwooden planks left on the ground.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:但是在空中拍照最激动人心的也许是，后期我们可以用特殊的软件把这些照片拼合在一起，来制造一张全景地图，这张地图可以给我们提供监测土地使用状况的关键信息，让我们知道何时何地种植园也许正在扩张，哪里森林也许正在收缩，哪里也许有火灾。这些航空图片也可以被制作成森林的三维电脑模型。这些模型不仅仅在视觉上吸引人，它们也非常精确，这就意味着，研究者们可以测量树木之间的距离，计算表面积，植被体积等等，这些都是非常重要的数据，可以用来监测这些森林的生态状况。最近，我们也开始了热成像相机的试验。这些相机可以检测地面上的热源物体，因此，它们在侦测偷猎者和他们夜晚的营火时特别有用。
en:But perhaps the most exciting partabout taking pictures from the air iswe could later stitch these pictures togetherusing special software to create a mapof the entire landscape, and this mapgives us crucial informationfor monitoring land use change,to let us know where and whenplantations might be expanding,where forests might be contracting,or where fires might be breaking out.Aerial images could also be processedto produce three-dimensionalcomputer models of forests.Now these models are not just visually appealing,but they are also geometrically accurate,which means researchers can now measurethe distance between trees,calculate surface area, the volume of vegetation,and so on, all of which are important informationfor monitoring the health of these forests.Recently, we&#39;ve also begun experimentingwith thermal imaging cameras.Now these cameras can detectheat-emitting objects from the ground,and therefore they are very usefulfor detecting poachers or their campfires at night.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:我已经跟你讲了很多关于什么是环境保护无人机，如何操纵无人机，和无人机能为你做些什么。我现在将告诉你世界上哪些地方正在使用环境保护无人机。我们在瑞士制造了第一架原型机。我们带了一些到印度尼西亚做一些首次的测试飞行。从那以后，我们一直在为我们全世界的合作者制造无人机，包括生物学家，和来自大型环境保护组织的合作者。
en:So I&#39;ve told you quite a lot aboutwhat conservation drones are,how you might operate one of these drones,and what a drone could do for you.I will now tell you where conservation dronesare being used around the world.We built our first prototype drones in Switzerland.We brought a few of these to Indonesiafor the first few test flights.Since then, we&#39;ve been building dronesfor our collaborators from around the world,and these include fellow biologistsand partners from major conservation organizations.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:也许与这些合作者工作中最好的最有价值的部分就是他们给我们的关于如何改进我们的无人机的反馈。制造无人机是一个要一直持续下去的工作。我们一直在试图不断地改进无人机，比如飞行距离、对恶劣环境的耐受性，能携带的最大荷载等。我们也与合作者一起发现运用无人机的新方法。例如，相机陷阱是生物学家们通用的给那些藏在树林里的害羞的动物拍照的方法，但是这些是触发式的相机，当一个动物穿过它们的路径时才会拍照。这些相机陷阱的问题在于研究者必须频繁地回到森林中去取回这些照片，这花费很多时间，特别是当森林中放有数百个照相机时。现在，无人机可以更加高效地完成这项工作。携带着特殊传感器的无人机可以在森林上空远距离地，从能发射wifi信号的相机中下载图像。
en:Perhaps the best and most rewarding partabout working with these collaboratorsis the feedback they give uson how to improve our drones.Building drones for us isa constant work in progress.We are constantly trying to improve them in terms oftheir range, their ruggedness,and the amount of payload they can carry.We also work with collaboratorsto discover new ways of using these drones.For example, camera traps are a common toolused by biologists to take pictures of shy animalshiding in the forests,but these are motion-activated cameras,so they snap a picture every time an animalcrosses their path.But the problem with camera trapsis that the researcher has to go back to the forestevery so often to retrieve those images,and that takes a lot of time,especially if there are dozensor hundreds of these cameras placed in the forest.Now a drone could be designed to perform the taskmuch more efficiently.This drone, carrying a special sensor,could be flown over the forestand remotely download these imagesfrom wi-fi–enabled cameras.
时间：10:09
zh-cn:无线电项圈是另一种被生物学家广泛运用的工具。这些项圈被放置在动物身上。它们传输无线电信号，使研究者可以跟踪这些动物的行踪。但是传统的跟踪方法，非常地不合理，因为它要求研究者携带巨大的，笨重的无线电接收装置行走，有点类似我们以前老式电视上的装在楼顶的天线。一些人现在还是用这样的电视。一架无人机可以做同样的工作，但是更加高效。为什么不给一架无人机装备一个无线电接收装置，让它在森林上空以一个特定的路线飞行，这样可以让操作者用三角测量的方法确定携带着无线电圈的动物的位置，而完全不需要研究者进入森林。
en:Radio collars are another toolthat&#39;s commonly used by biologists.Now these collars are put onto animals.They transmit a radio signal which allowsthe researcher to track the movementsof these animals across the landscape.But the traditional way of tracking animalsis pretty ridiculous,because it requires the researcher to be walkingon the ground carrying a hugeand cumbersome radio antenna,not unlike those old TV antennae we used to haveon our rooftops. Some of us still do.A drone could be used to do the same jobmuch more efficiently.Why not equip a dronewith a scanning radio receiver,fly that over the forest canopyin a certain patternwhich would allow the user or the operatorto triangulate the locationof these radio-collared animals remotelywithout having to step foot in the forest.
时间：11:04
zh-cn:第三，也许也是最有意思的运用无人机的方法，是让它们飞到一片非常遥远，从未被探索过的隐藏在热带地区的雨林，投下一个微型侦测话筒，我们就可以偷听哺乳动物鸟类，两栖类，雪人，大足怪，等等管它是什么的声音。这将给我们生物学家一个非常好的了解什么动物生活在这些森林里的机会。
en:A third and perhaps most exciting wayof using these dronesis to fly them to a really remote,never-explored-before rainforestsomewhere hidden in the tropics,and parachute down a tiny spy microphonethat would allow us to eavesdrop on the callsof mammals, birds, amphibians,the Yeti, the Sasquatch, Bigfoot, whatever.That would give us biologistsa pretty good idea of what animalsmight be living in those forests.
时间：11:35
zh-cn:最后，我想向你们展示一下我们最新的环境保护无人机。MAJA无人机有大约两米的翼展。它仅仅只有两千克重，但是却能携带相当于它自己一半重量的装备。它是一个全自动的系统。起飞后，它可以传输一个实时视频信号给地面电脑，这样使用者可以实时看到无人机所看到的。它还携带有很多传感器，其中一些传感器的照片质量可以清晰到一到两厘米每像素。这架无人机可以连续飞行40到60分钟，即50千米的飞行距离。这对于我们大多数环保任务来说已经非常够用了。
en:And finally, I would like to show youthe latest version of our conservation drone.The MAJA drone has a wingspanof about two meters.It weighs only about two kilograms,but it can carry half its weight.It is a fully autonomous system.During its mission, it can even transmita live video feed back to a ground station laptop,which allows the userto see what the drone is seeing in real time.It carries a variety of sensors,and the photo quality of some of these sensorscan be as high as one to two centimeters per pixel.This drone can stay in the air for 40 to 60 minutes,which gives it a range of up to 50 kilometers.That is quite sufficient for mostof our conservation applications.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:环境保护无人机，起源于两个生物学家的疯狂点子，他们非常狂热于技术。我们相信，非常强烈地相信无人机可以给环境保护研究与应用带来革命性的改变。我们也遭受过质疑与批评，有人认为我们仅仅只是在玩一些儿童玩具。从某种程度上说，他们是对的。我想说的是，老实说，无人机确实是男孩的终极玩具。但是同时，我们必须认识到，很多优秀的同行与合作者们，也和我们一样看到了环境保护无人机的潜在价值。对我们而言，很明显，环境保护生物学家们和实践者们应该充分利用每一个可用的工具，包括无人机，来保护地球上现存的森林和野生动物。
en:Now, conservation drones began asa crazy idea from two biologistswho are just deeply passionateabout this technology.And we believe, strongly believe,that drones can and will be a game changerfor conservation research and applications.We&#39;ve had our fair share of skeptics and criticswho thought that we were justfooling around with toy planes.And in a way, they are right.I mean, let&#39;s be honest,drones are the ultimate toys for boys.But at the same time, we&#39;ve also gotten to knowmany wonderful colleagues and collaboratorswho share our visionand see the potential of conservation drones.To us, it is obvious that conservation biologistsand practitioners should make full useof every available tool, including drones,in our fight to save the last remaining forestsand wildlife of this planet.
时间：13:15
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：13:17
zh-cn:掌声
en:(Applause)
