时间： 0:11
zh-cn:编码是下一个世界性的语言。七十年代，影响了一代人的，是朋克音乐。80年代，也许是金钱吧。而对我这代人来说，软件就是想象和世界的接口。这意味着我们需要更多更多各式各样的人来建造这些产品，这些人不会把电脑视作神奇却呆板 、孤独又无趣的东西，而是把电脑看作是可以摆弄的，可以改进的等等。
en:Code is the next universal language.In the seventies, it was punk musicthat drove the whole generation.In the eighties, it was probably money.But for my generation of people,software is the interfaceto our imagination and our world.And that means that we needa radically, radicallymore diverse set of peopleto build those products,to not see computers as mechanicaland lonely and boring and magic,to see them as thingsthat they can tinkerand turn around and twist,and so forth.
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:我开始编程，初涉科技世界是在稚嫩的十四岁那时，我疯狂迷恋着一位年长男士，这位男士正是时任美国副总统的阿尔·戈尔(AL Gore)先生。而我做了每个青春期女生都想做的事。我想要表达自己对他的爱，因此，我为他建立了一个网站。就是这个那是2001年，彼时没有Tumblr，没有Facebook，也没有Pinterest因此我需要学习编程来表达我所有的憧憬和爱慕。
en:My personal journey into the worldof programming and technologystarted at the tender age of 14.I had this mad teenage crushon an older man,and the older man in questionjust happened to bethe then Vice Presidentof the United States, Mr. Al Gore.And I did what every singleteenage girl would want to do.I wanted to somehowexpress all of this love,so I built him a website, it&#39;s over here.And in 2001, there was no Tumblr,there was no Facebook,there was no Pinterest.So I needed to learn to codein order to expressall of this longing and loving.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:这就是我如何开始编程的故事。最初它于我而言，是一种表达自我的方式。就像我小的时候，会用蜡笔和乐高积木来表达。长大些后，会用吉他课和戏剧表演，来表达自己。但那时，还有其它很多让人兴奋的东西，比如诗歌和织袜子，总结法语动词变位，构建虚幻世界，还有伯特兰·罗素(Bertrand Russell)以及他的哲学。然后，我也开始和很多人一样，认为计算机既无趣，又专业还孤单。
en:And that is how programmingstarted for me.It started as a means of self-expression.Just like when I was smaller,I would use crayons and legos.And when I was older, I would useguitar lessons and theater plays.But then, there were other thingsto get excited about,like poetry and knitting socksand conjugating French irregular verbsand coming up with make-believe worldsand Bertrand Russell and his philosophy.And I started to be one of those peoplewho felt that computersare boring and technical and lonely.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:现在，我是这样想的。小女孩们并不知道自己被认为是不该喜欢电脑的。小女孩们很厉害。她们非常非常擅长于集中注意力做事精确，她们还会提出很多有意思的问题，比如“什么？”，“为什么？”，“如何？” 以及“如果？”她们并不知道自己被看作不应该会喜欢电脑。是她们的父母会这样想。我们的父母认为计算机科学是如此深奥晦涩又稀奇古怪的领域专属于那些制造奥秘的人它和日常生活的距离之远，就像遥不可及的核物理一般。
en:Here&#39;s what I think today.Little girls don&#39;t know that theyare not supposed to like computers.Little girls are amazing.They are really, really goodat concentrating on thingsand being exact and they askamazing questions like,&quot;What?&quot; and &quot;Why?&quot;and &quot;How?&quot; and &quot;What if?&quot;And they don&#39;t know that theyare not supposed to like computers.It&#39;s the parents who do.It&#39;s us parents who feellike computer scienceis this esoteric, weird science disciplinethat only belongs to the mystery makers.That it&#39;s almost as far removedfrom everyday lifeas, say, nuclear physics.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:他们的想法也有些道理。编程中有那么多语法，控制项和数据结构。各种算法、实践以及协议和范式。我们共同将电脑做得越来越小我们建立了层层叠叠的抽象概念在人与机器之间直到我们都不再了解电脑到底是如何工作的以及应当如何与之沟通我们会教给我们的孩子，人体是如何工作的教给他们内燃机的工作原理我们甚至会告诉孩子，如果你真想要成为一名宇航员你会做到的可当我们的孩子跑来问我们“那么，什么是冒泡排序法？”或者：“当我按下执行键，电脑怎么知道要做什么？”“它怎么知道放哪一个视频？”又或者，“琳达， 网络是一个地方吗？”我们成年人，会异常沉默有些人会说：“它有神奇的力量。”还有些人会说：“这太复杂了。”
en:And they are partly right about that.There&#39;s a lot of syntaxand controls and data structuresand algorithms and practices,protocols and paradigms in programming.And we as a community,we&#39;ve made computers smaller and smaller.We&#39;ve built layers and layersof abstraction on top of each otherbetween the man and the machineto the point that we no longerhave any idea how computers workor how to talk to them.And we do teach our kidshow the human body works,we teach them howthe combustion engine functionsand we even tell themthat if you want to really be an astronautyou can become one.But when the kid comes to us and asks,&quot;So, what is a bubble sort algorithm?&quot;Or, &quot;How does the computer knowwhat happens when I press &#39;play,&#39;how does it know which video to show?&quot;Or, &quot;Linda, is Internet a place?&quot;We adults, we grow oddly silent.&quot;It&#39;s magic,&quot; some of us say.&quot;It&#39;s too complicated,&quot; the others say.
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:嗯，其实都不是。它并不神奇也并不复杂只是这一切发生得十分，非常，特别快计算机专家制造了这些美好又奇妙的机器。却又让我们对它们十分陌生电脑对我们沟通的语言也同样如此因此，离开了精美的用户界面。我们便不知道如何与电脑交流
en:Well, it&#39;s neither.It&#39;s not magic and it&#39;s not complicated.It all just happenedreally, really, really fast.Computer scientists builtthese amazing, beautiful machines,but they made themvery, very foreign to us,and also the language we speakto the computersso that we don&#39;t knowhow to speak to the computers anymorewithout our fancy user interfaces.
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:这也是为什么，没人发现当我研究法语动词变位时实际上，我锻炼的是自己的模式识别技能当我十分开心地织袜子时，我实际上正是遵循一串符号指令，包含了众多循环命令。伯特兰•罗素终其一生，追求在英语与数学中，找到一种准确的语言这一追求，最终在电脑中找到归宿我那时就已然是个程序师，但没人知道。
en:And that&#39;s why no one recognizedthat when I was conjugatingFrench irregular verbs,I was actually practicingmy pattern recognition skills.And when I was excited about knitting,I actually was followinga sequence of symbolic commandsthat included loops inside of them.And that Bertrand Russell&#39;s lifelong questto find an exact languagebetween English and mathematicsfound its home inside of a computer.I was a programmer, but no one knew it.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:如今的孩子们，终日把玩电脑但除非我们给他们工具，让他们能够利用电脑构建世界我们培养的就只是消费者，而不是创造者。
en:The kids of today, they tap, swipeand pinch their way through the world.But unless we give them toolsto build with computers,we are raising only consumersinstead of creators.
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:这一追求过程让我想到这个小女孩她叫Ruby（也是一种编程语言的名字），六岁她无所畏惧，富有想象力，又有那么点强势每当我处理问题时每当我学习编程，学习诸如何为面对对象设计？何为碎片帐集？我都会想象一个六岁的女孩会如何解释这些问题
en:This whole questled me to this little girl.Her name is Ruby, she is six years old.She is completely fearless,imaginative and a little bit bossy.And every timeI would run into a problemin trying to teachmyself programming like,&quot;What is object-oriented designor what is garbage collection?&quot;,I would try to imagine how a six-year-oldlittle girl would explain the problem.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:我为她写了一本书，并加以说明Ruby教会我“不要害怕床下的那些虫子“还有，“即使再大的问题也是由众多小问题构成的罢了“Ruby还向我引荐了她的朋友们也就是网络文化多彩的一面比如雪豹（OS X操作系统的一个版本）它很漂亮，但不喜欢和别的小朋友玩。还有绿色机器人，也是Ruby的朋友，十分友好，却很散乱她还有朋友，比如Linux 企鹅，十分冷酷高效，却有些难搞还有理想主义的狐狸等等
en:And I wrote a book about herand I illustrated itand the thingsRuby taught me go like this.Ruby taught me that you&#39;renot supposed to be afraidof the bugs under your bed.And even the biggest of the problemsare a group of tiny problemsstuck together.And Ruby also introducedme to her friends,the colorful side of the Internet culture.She has friends like the Snow Leopard,who is beautiful but doesn&#39;t wantto play with the other kids.And she has friends like the green robotsthat are really friendly but super messy.And she has friends like Linux the penguinwho&#39;s really ruthlessly efficient,but somewhat hard to understand.And idealistic foxes, and so on.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:在Ruby的世界，你通过玩来学习科技比如，电脑十分擅长做重复工作因此Ruby会教我这样用循环这是Ruby最喜欢的舞蹈动作像这样：“拍，拍，踏，踏”“拍，拍，跳”这样重复了四遍，你就学会了counter循环同样，当我一只脚站立，重复这个排列时，你又学会了 while循环而当你一直重复这个排列，直到惹怒了老妈，你就知道什么是until循环了（笑）最主要的是，你明白了，没有现成答案
en:In Ruby&#39;s world, you learntechnology through play.And, for instance, computersare really good at repeating stuff,so the way Ruby would teachloops goes like this.This is Ruby&#39;s favorite dance move,it goes, &quot;Clap, clap, stomp, stompclap, clap and jump.&quot;And you learn counter loopsby repeating that four times.And you learn while loopsby repeating that sequencewhile I&#39;m standing on one leg.And you learn until loopsby repeating that sequenceuntil mom gets really mad.(Laughter)And most of all, you learnthat there are no ready answers.
时间： 6:13
zh-cn:当我要设计一个介绍Ruby世界的课程时我想要真正问问孩子们，他们是如何看待这个世界的以及他们有什么样问题。然后我会安排游戏测试环节刚开始，我向孩子们展示这四幅图我给他们看的画上有辆车有家杂货铺，一条狗和一个马桶接着我问他们：“你们觉得这些东西中，哪样是电脑？”孩子们会十分谨慎说：“哈，这里面才没有电脑呢，我可知道电脑长啥样哦！就是那个会发光的盒子就是爸妈老花时间玩的那个东西“之后，我们会讨论我们会发现，原来，车也是一台电脑它里面有导航系统还有狗，狗可能不是台电脑但他带着个项圈，这个项圈里可能有电脑杂货店里，就更是有很多种电脑了有收银机，还有防盗器孩子们，你们知道吗在日本，马桶也是电脑呢甚至有黑客攻击它呢（笑）
en:When coming up with the curriculumfor Ruby&#39;s world,I needed to really ask the kidshow they see the worldand what kind of questions they haveand I would organizeplay testing sessions.I would start by showing the kidsthese four pictures.I would show them a picture of a car,a grocery store, a dog and a toilet.And I would ask, &quot;Which one of thesedo you think is a computer?&quot;And the kids would bevery conservative and go,&quot;None of these is a computer.I know what a computer is:it&#39;s that glowing boxin front of which mom or dadspends way too much time.&quot;But then we would talkand we would discoverthat actually, a car is a computer,it has a navigation system inside of it.And a dog — a dogmight not be a computer,but it has a collarand the collar might havea computer inside of it.And grocery stores, they haveso many different kinds of computers,like the cashier systemand the burglar alarms.And kids, you know what?In Japan, toilets are computersand there&#39;s even hackers who hack them.(Laughter)
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:而后，更进一步。我给了他们一些贴纸，上面有开关按钮然后我告诉孩子们：“今天你们有魔力，能把房间里任何东西都变成电脑。“结果，孩子们又说“听起来好难的样子，我不知道正确答案呀”但我告诉他们：“别怕，你爸妈也不知道正确答案。他们才刚听说这些东西这个叫做网络的玩意儿但你们这些孩子，你们会居住在这样一个世界周围所有东西都是电脑。”
en:And we go furtherand I give them these little stickerswith an on/off button on them.And I tell the kids,&quot;Today you have this magic abilityto make anything in this roominto a computer.&quot;And again, the kids go,&quot;Sounds really hard,I don&#39;t know the right answer for this.&quot;But I tell them, &quot;Don&#39;t worry,your parents don&#39;t knowthe right answer, either.They&#39;ve just startedto hear about this thingcalled The Internet of Things.But you kids,you are going to be the oneswho are really going to live up in a worldwhere everything is a computer.&quot;
时间： 7:46
zh-cn:然后，有个小女孩走向我拿着一个自行车灯说：“这个自行车灯，如果是台电脑的话，它就会变色“我说：“这想法好棒啊，那它还能做什么吗？”小女孩想了又想她说：“如果这个自行车灯是台电脑，我们就能和我爸爸一起去骑车旅行在帐篷里睡觉这个自行车灯也可以变成一个电影放映机。”这就是我想要的时刻！在这一时刻，孩子们意识到世界还远没有妥善到位想要让世界变得更完善，有一个好方法就是开发科技。我们每个人都可能成为改变中的一部分。
en:And then I had this little girlwho came to meand took a bicycle lampand she said, &quot;This bicycle lamp,if it were a computer,it would change colors.&quot;And I said, &quot;That&#39;s a really good idea,what else could it do?&quot;And she thinks and she thinks,and she goes, &quot;If this bicycle lampwere a computer,we could go on a biking tripwith my fatherand we would sleep in a tentand this biking lampcould also be a movie projector.&quot;And that&#39;s the moment I&#39;m looking for,the moment when the kid realizesthat the worldis definitely not ready yet,that a really awesome wayof making the world more readyis by building technologyand that each one of uscan be a part of that change.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:最后，我们还造了一台电脑我们知道了发号司令的中央处理器(CPU)，和十分有用的随机存储器(RAM)，以及帮助电脑记忆一切的只读存储器(ROM)之后，我们将电脑组装起来，为它设计了程序我最喜欢的故事是这个小男孩他六岁，在这世上最喜欢的事就是成为宇航员。小男孩头戴大耳机完全着迷于他那小小的，纸质电脑。因为，你看，他自己做了一个能穿越星球星际的导航程序他的父亲，一名位于火星轨道的，孤单的宇航员就在房间的另一边男孩的重大使命便是将他爸爸安全带回地球关于世界，以及我们如何用科技构建世界。这些孩子将建立一个完全不同的认知
en:Final story, we also built a computer.And we got to know the bossy CPUand the helpful RAM and ROMthat help it remember things.And after we&#39;ve assembledour computer together,we also design an application for it.And my favorite story is this little boy,he&#39;s six years oldand his favorite thing in the worldis to be an astronaut.And the boy, he hasthese huge headphones onand he&#39;s completely immersedin his tiny paper computerbecause you see, he&#39;s built his ownintergalactic planetarynavigation application.And his father, the lone astronautin the Martian orbit,is on the other side of the roomand the boy&#39;s important missionis to bring the fathersafely back to earth.And these kids are going to havea profoundly different view of the worldand the way we build it with technology.
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:最后，越是亲切、包容，多样的科技手段就越会让我们的世界变得更好，更多彩所以，我们来一起想象一下这样一个世界，在这里，我们所说的故事关于事物如何被创造的故事，不仅仅关于二十来岁的硅谷男孩也关于肯尼亚女学生，和挪威图书管理员想象这样一个世界，那里有明日的小阿达·洛芙莱斯(Ada Lovelaces,最早的“程序媛”)居住在永恒的0和1的世界里他们长大，积极又勇敢地看待科技他们拥抱了这世界的力量、机会和限制，这个科技世界既精妙绝伦又有些光怪陆离。
en:Finally, the more approachable,the more inclusive,and the more diversewe make the world of technology,the more colorful and betterthe world will look like.So, imagine with me, for a moment,a world where the stories we tellabout how things get madedon&#39;t only includethe twentysomething-year-oldSilicon Valley boys,but also Kenyan schoolgirlsand Norwegian librarians.Imagine a world wherethe little Ada Lovelaces of tomorrow,who live in a permanentreality of 1s and 0s,they grow up to be very optimisticand brave about technology.They embrace the powersand the opportunitiesand the limitations of the world.A world of technologythat is wonderful, whimsicaland a tiny bit weird.
时间：10:14
zh-cn:当我是个小女孩时我想要成为一个讲故事的人我喜欢虚幻世界我最想要做的便是清晨醒来，身在姆明谷（Moominvalley）下午漫步在塔图因星球（Tatooine）晚上，再在纳尼亚的世界中安睡。因此编程成为我的绝佳职业我仍能创造世界但不是说故事，而是通过编程
en:When I was a girl,I wanted to be a storyteller.I loved make-believe worldsand my favorite thing to dowas to wake up in the morningsin Moominvalley.In the afternoons,I would roam around the Tatooines.And in the evenings,I would go to sleep in Narnia.And programming turned outto be the perfect profession for me.I still create worlds.Instead of stories, I do them with code.
时间：10:42
zh-cn:编程赋予我这一神奇的力量使我能够建立自己的一方小天地按照自己的规则、范式和实践依靠逻辑的纯粹力量，实现从无到有的创造。
en:Programming gives me this amazing powerto build my whole little universewith its own rulesand paradigms and practices.Create something out of nothingwith the pure power of logic.
时间：10:57
zh-cn:谢谢！
en:Thank you.
时间：10:59
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
