时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想谈谈石油泄漏的政治化学结构，以及为什么这一点很重要，冗长油腻的酷暑，我们又为什么需要保持注意力集中。但在我谈政治之前，让我先讲讲石油的化学性质。
en:So I&#39;m going to talk to you about you about the political chemistry of oil spillsand why this is an incredibly important,long, oily, hot summer,and why we need to keep ourselves from getting distracted.But before I talk about the political chemistry,I actually need to talk about the chemistry of oil.
时间： 0:27
zh-cn:这张照片摄于二零零二年我探访阿拉斯加的普拉德霍湾时我当时是去去察看美国矿产管理局测试他们在冰里燃烧石油泄漏的能力。现在你可以看到一些原油，你可以看到一些冰块，你还可以看到两个塑胶袋装的凝固汽油。那些凝固汽油燃烧得很不错。这其实是说石油实际上对我们美国消费者来说是一个很抽象的东西。我们占世界人口的百分之四；我们使用世界石油生产量的百分之二十五。我们却并不知道什么是石油，直到你测试了它的分子，直到你看到这个东西燃烧，你才会理解它。这就是燃烧时的情况。然后它“呼”的一声，就熄灭了。我强烈建议你找个机会去看看原油燃烧，因为你将永远不再需要去听关于石油的地缘政治学的政治科学讲座。它将烘烤你的视网膜。这就是，视网膜正在被烘烤。
en:This is a photograph from when I visitedPrudhoe Bay in Alaska in 2002to watch the Minerals Management Servicetesting their abilityto burn oil spills in ice.And what you see here is, you see a little bit of crude oil,you see some ice cubes,and you see two sandwich baggies of napalm.The napalm is burning there quite nicely.And the thing is, is thatoil is really an abstraction for us as the American consumer.We&#39;re four percent of the world&#39;s population;we use 25 percent of the world&#39;s oil production.And we don&#39;t really understand what oil is,until you check out its molecules,And you don&#39;t really understand that until you see this stuff burn.So this is what happens as that burn gets going.It takes off. It&#39;s a big woosh.I highly recommend that you get a chance to see crude oil burn someday,because you will never need to hear another poli sci lectureon the geopolitics of oil again.It&#39;ll just bake your retinas.So there it is; the retinas are baking.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:让我来给你们讲讲石油的化学成分。石油是碳氢化合物分子的混合物。它从非常小的分子开始，是一个碳，四个氢—那是甲烷—它会漂走。然后这些中间的分子含有中等含量的碳。你大概听说过苯环；它们是高度致癌的。然后到了这些巨大的，密集的，笨重的分子含有数百个碳，它们有数千个氢，它们还含有钒，重金属和硫磺还有各种奇怪的分子悬挂在它们的侧面。那些叫做沥青烯；它们是沥青的成分。它们在石油泄漏中十分的重要。
en:Let me tell you a little bit about this chemistry of oil.Oil is a stew of hydrocarbon molecules.It starts of with the very small ones,which are one carbon, four hydrogen —that&#39;s methane — it just floats off.Then there&#39;s all sorts of intermediate ones with middle amounts of carbon.You&#39;ve probably heard of benzene rings; they&#39;re very carcinogenic.And it goes all the way overto these big, thick, galumphy ones that have hundreds of carbons,and they have thousands of hydrogens,and they have vanadium and heavy metals and sulfurand all kinds of craziness hanging off the sides of them.Those are called the asphaltenes; they&#39;re an ingredient in asphalt.They&#39;re very important in oil spills.
时间： 1:55
zh-cn:让我来给你们讲讲这些在水中的石油的化学性质。正是这种化学性质导致石油具有极大的灾害性。石油不下沉，石油漂浮。如果它下沉，那石油泄漏将是一个完全不同的故事了。另外一件事就是当石油一接触到水便扩散开来。它扩散到十分的薄，因此会很难将其围堵起来。接下来发生的事情就是那些轻的物质会挥发，一些有毒物质漂浮到水层中杀死鱼卵和一些小鱼，小虾。然后沥青烯—这是决定的东西—沥青烯被波浪拍打成充满泡沫的乳状液，像蛋黄酱一样。它增加三倍那些在水中的油腻的，肮脏的粘状物的总量并且它使得很难去处理。它也使得它（泄漏的石油）变得很粘滞。当威望号油轮在西班牙海岸沉没后，沙发垫大小的如胶状的石油层漂浮在海面，就像粘滞性的口香糖。清理的困难程度让人难以置信。并且每一滴接触到水面的油都不同。
en:Let me tell you a little bit aboutthe chemistry of oil in water.It is this chemistry that makes oil so disastrous.Oil doesn&#39;t sink, it floats.If it sank, it would be a whole different story as far as an oil spill.And the other thing it does is it spreads out the moment it hits the water.It spreads out to be really thin,so you have a hard time corralling it.The next thing that happensis the light ends evaporate,and some of the toxic things float into the water columnand kill fish eggsand smaller fish and things like that, and shrimp.And then the asphaltenes — and this is the crucial thing —the asphaltenes get whipped by the wavesinto a frothy emulsion, something like mayonnaise.It triples the amountof oily, messy goo that you have in the water,and it makes it very hard to handle.It also makes it very viscous.When the Prestige sank off the coast of Spain,there were big, floating cushions the size of sofa cushionsof emulsified oil,with the consistency, or the viscosity, of chewing gum.It&#39;s incredibly hard to clean up.And every single oil is different when it hits water.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:当石油和水的化学成分同样地触及到政治，一场爆发是无法避免的。美国消费者第一次，直面石油供应链。他们会有“我发现了！”的一瞬间，那一刻我们从另一个角度重新认识了石油。因此，我将简短的讲述一下这些政治的起源，因为这对了解为什么这个夏天是如此重要，为什么我们需要关注它至关重要。没有人早晨起来后想，“哇！我要把一些三碳到十二碳的分子装到我的油箱里然后开心地开车去上班。”不，他们想的是，“哎，我得去买汽油。太生气了。这些石油公司分明是在敲竹杠。我对他们如何决定价格毫不知情。太无助了。”这就是我们在加油站所发生的事情。实际上，加油站是被精心策划了的目的是减轻我们的愤怒。你也许会发现很多加油站，包括这个，看上去好像自动取款机。我曾与工程师谈论过，这设计就是为了减轻我们的愤怒感，因为我们天生对自动取款机有好感。（笑声）看看它有多么坏。
en:When the chemistry of the oil and wateralso hits our politics,it&#39;s absolutely explosive.For the first time, American consumerswill kind of see the oil supply chain in front of themselves.They have a &quot;eureka!&quot; moment,when we suddenly understand oil in a different context.So I&#39;m going to talk just a little bit about the origin of these politics,because it&#39;s really crucial to understandingwhy this summer is so important, why we need to stay focused.Nobody gets up in the morning and thinks,&quot;Wow! I&#39;m going to go buysome three-carbon-to-12-carbon molecules to put in my tankand drive happily to work.&quot;No, they think, &quot;Ugh. I have to go buy gas.I&#39;m so angry about it. The oil companies are ripping me off.They set the prices, and I don&#39;t even know.I am helpless over this.&quot;And this is what happens to us at the gas pump —and actually, gas pumps are specifically designedto diffuse that anger.You might notice that many gas pumps, including this one,are designed to look like ATMs.I&#39;ve talked to engineers. That&#39;s specifically to diffuse our anger,because supposedly we feel good about ATMs.(Laughter)That shows you how bad it is.
时间： 3:59
zh-cn:但是事实上，我所说的这种无助感是指大多数美国人认定汽油的价格是一种密谋，而非世界石油市场的盛衰。但要命的是，我们对消费总量也一无所知，这多少也合理，实际上我们设计了这个系统，如果你想找个工作，首先得有一辆能跑的车，为了找到并维持这份工作，得有一个汽油发动机驱动装置(注：GED:Gasoline Engine Driven)其实这很荒谬。
en:But actually, I mean, this feeling of helplessnesscomes in because most Americans actually feelthat oil prices are the result of a conspiracy,not of the vicissitudes of the world oil market.And the thing is, too,is that we also feel very helpless about the amount that we consume,which is somewhat reasonable,because in fact, we have designed this systemwhere, if you want to get a job,it&#39;s much more important to have a car that runs,to have a job and keep a job, than to have a GED.And that&#39;s actually very perverse.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:另外一件反常的事情是关于我们买汽油也就是我们宁可做点别的事情。这是英国石油公司BP（注：BP:British Petroleum)的加油站在洛杉矶的市中心。它是绿色的，它仿佛一座绿色圣殿。现在请你想想，“为什么一些本无说服力的东西能如此巧妙地说服人们？”原因在于：当我们买汽油时，我们产生了某种认知失调。我们一方面很生气，我们想去别的地方，而不是站在这儿买汽油；另一方面，我们又想做些绿色环保的事情。我们陷入了自己设计的矛盾之中。这挺有意思的。看起来很可笑。但是实际上这就是为什么“超越石油”这个标语能起作用。作为能源政策固有的一个部分，我们不去谈论怎样减少我们使用石油的总量。我们谈论能源独立。我们谈论氢能汽车。我们谈论还没有被发明出来的生物能源。因此，认知失调是我们对待石油的一部分，并且它也对处理石油泄漏十分重要。
en:Now there&#39;s another perverse thing about the way we buy gas,which is that we&#39;d rather be doing anything else.This is BP&#39;s gas stationin downtown Los Angeles.It is green. It is a shrine to greenishness.&quot;Now,&quot; you think, &quot;why would something so lamework on people so smart?&quot;Well, the reason is, is because, when we&#39;re buying gas,we&#39;re very invested in this sort of cognitive dissonance.I mean, we&#39;re angry at the one hand and we want to be somewhere else.We don&#39;t want to be buying oil;we want to be doing something green.And we get kind of in on our own con.I mean — and this is funny,it looks funny here.But in fact, that&#39;s why the slogan &quot;beyond petroleum&quot; worked.But it&#39;s an inherent part of our energy policy,which is we don&#39;t talk aboutreducing the amount of oil that we use.We talk about energy independence. We talk about hydrogen cars.We talk about biofuels that haven&#39;t been invented yet.And so, cognitive dissonanceis part and parcel of the way that we deal with oil,and it&#39;s really important to dealing with this oil spill.
时间： 5:29
zh-cn:石油政治在美国是很有道义的。石油业就像一只巨大的章鱼，它涉及工程、金融以及其他所有的行业，但是实际上我们认为它很有道德。这是较早前的一张照片。你可以看到，这里有些喷油井。早前的一些记者看到这些泄漏，他们说，“这是一个肮脏的产业。”但是他们也看到人们什么都不用做就可以赚大笔钱。他们不是农民，他们却靠土地上冒出来的东西发财。这根本就是“豪门新人类”（注：Beverly Hillbillies 60年代美国喜剧）。刚开始时，这件事的道德问题是有争论的，早在它变得有趣之前。
en:Okay, so the politics of oilare very moral in the United States.The oil industry is like a huge, gigantic octopusof engineering and financeand everything else,but we actually see it in very moral terms.This is an early-on photograph — you can see, we had these gushers.Early journalists looked at these spills,and they said, &quot;This is a filthy industry.&quot;But they also saw in itthat people were getting rich for doing nothing.They weren&#39;t farmers, they were just getting rich for stuff coming out of the ground.It&#39;s the &quot;Beverly Hillbillies,&quot; basically.But in the beginning, this was seen as a very morally problematic thing,long before it became funny.
时间： 6:04
zh-cn:然后，当然，这里是约翰 D. 洛克菲勒。关于约翰 D.的是他进入了这个混乱的石油产业，他使之合理化成为了一个纵向整合的公司，一个跨国公司。这是极可怕的。你现在认为沃尔玛是个可怕的经营模式，想象一下这些在一八六零年或者一八七零年代是什么样子。这也是我们视石油(行业)为一个密谋的根源。但是真正惊人的是记者艾达 塔贝尔，走进并且曝光了洛克菲勒的内幕，接着推进了完整的反垄断法。但是在很多方面，密谋的印象始终缠绕着我们。其中有一件事情艾达 塔贝尔说过。她说，“他有一个像刺一般细的鼻子。没有嘴唇。他无生气的眼睛下有鼓起的眼袋布满皱纹。“（笑声）所以那个人仍然和我们在一起。(笑声)我的意思是，这是一个非常普遍的—这是我们基因的一部分。然后这个人在这里。
en:And then, of course, there was John D. Rockefeller.And the thing about John D. is thathe went into this chaotic wild-eastof oil industry,and he rationalized itinto a vertically integrated company, a multinational.It was terrifying; you think Walmart is a terrifying business model now,imagine what this looked like in the 1860s or 1870s.And it also the kind of rootof how we see oil as a conspiracy.But what&#39;s really amazing is thatIda Tarbell, the journalist,went in and did a big exposé of Rockefellerand actually got the whole antitrust lawsput in place.But in many ways,that image of the conspiracy still sticks with us.And here&#39;s one of the thingsthat Ida Tarbell said —she said, &quot;He has a thin nose like a thorn.There were no lips.There were puffs under the little colorless eyeswith creases running from them.&quot;(Laughter)Okay, so that guy is actually still with us.(Laughter)I mean, this is a very pervasive — this is part of our DNA.And then there&#39;s this guy, okay.
时间： 7:11
zh-cn:所以，你可能想知道为什么每次我们有了高价石油或者石油泄漏，我们把这些首席执行官叫到华盛顿，公开地接二连三地问他们，试图羞辱他们。这就是从一九七四年以来我们一直在做的，当我们第一次问他们，“为什么这有肮脏的利润？”我们似乎将整个石油行业当成首席执行官们个人的产业。我们尝试从道德角度去看待它，而不是从一个法律和金融的角度去看它。我并不是说这些人没有资格回答问题，我只是说，当你关注他们是否是一群贪婪的混蛋，你实际上并没有找到重点即，你必须制定法律改变他们运营的方式，或者你开始认真地减少石油消费量，减少我们对于石油的依赖程度。因此我说这是种分心。但是这是一个很好的噱头，非常有力，正如你上个星期所看到的。
en:So, you might be wondering why it is that,every time we have high oil prices or an oil spill,we call these CEOs down to Washington,and we sort of pepper them with questions in public and we try to shame them.And this is something that we&#39;ve been doing since 1974,when we first asked them, &quot;Why are there these obscene profits?&quot;And we&#39;ve sort of personalized the whole oil industryinto these CEOs.And we take it as, you know —we look at it on a moral level,rather than looking at it on a legal and financial level.And so I&#39;m not saying these guys aren&#39;t liable to answer questions —I&#39;m just saying that, when you focus onwhether they are or are not a bunch of greedy bastards,you don&#39;t actually get around to the pointof making laws that are either going to either change the way they operate,or you&#39;re going to get aroundto really reducing the amount of oiland reducing our dependence on oil.So I&#39;m saying this is kind of a distraction.But it makes for good theater,and it&#39;s powerfully cathartic as you probably saw last week.
时间： 8:06
zh-cn:关于石油泄漏最重要的是它们带有很强的政治争议。我的意思是，那些照片—这是来自于圣巴巴拉市的石油泄漏。这是些鸟的照片。它们的确影响着人们。一九六九年，圣巴巴拉市的石油泄漏，促成了现代化的环保运动，开创了地球日。它也同时推进了国家环境政策法案，洁净空气法案，和洁净水法案。所有的一切都起源于这个时期。我认为观察一下这些鸟的照片很重要并且了解我们周围发生了什么。经常性的，我们站在加油站，感觉很无助。我们看着这些照片，然后我们第一次明白了，我们在供应链上的角色。我们将供应链上的这些点链接起来。然后我们似乎—作为投票者，我们有了一个“我发现了”的时刻。这就是为什么这些石油泄漏的瞬间是如此的重要。但是我们不被这噱头或者是它的道义所转移注意力也是很重要的。我们的确需要深入问题的根源，并且解决问题。
en:So the thing about water oil spillsis that they are very politically galvanizing.I mean, these pictures — this is from the Santa Barbara spill.You have these pictures of birds.They really influence people.When the Santa Barbara spill happened in 1969,it formed the environmental movement in its modern form.It started Earth Day.It also put in place the National Environmental Policy Act,the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act.Everything that we are really stemmed from this period.I think it&#39;s important to kind of look at these pictures of the birdsand understand what happens to us.Here we are normally;we&#39;re standing at the gas pump, and we&#39;re feeling kind of helpless.We look at these picturesand we understand, for the first time, our role in this supply chain.We connect the dots in the supply chain.And we have this kind of —as voters, we have kind of a &quot;eureka!&quot; moment.This is why these moments of these oil spillsare so important.But it&#39;s also really important that we don&#39;t get distractedby the theater or the morals of it.We actually need to go inand work on the roots of the problem.
时间： 9:08
zh-cn:前两次石油泄漏我们致力于解决某些症状。我们并非主动，而是十分被动地接受所发生的事情。因此我们仅仅是，暂缓了在东海岸和西海岸的钻油。我们停止了在北极野生生物国家保护区的钻油（注：ANWR:Arctic National Wildlife Refuge）但是我们实际上并没有减少石油的消费量。事实上，消费在持续增加。唯一能减少我们消费石油的办法就是较高的价格。正如你所见，我们的生产量已经减少了由于我们油库已经变得陈旧并且钻油也十分昂贵。我们仅有世界石油储藏量的百分之二。百分之六十五的石油储藏在波斯湾。
en:One of the things that happened with the two previous oil spillswas that we really worked on some of the symptoms.We were very reactive, as opposed to being proactiveabout what happened.And so what we did was, actually,we made moratoriums on the east and west coasts on drilling.We stopped drilling in ANWR,but we didn&#39;t actually reduce the amount of oil that we consumed.In fact, it&#39;s continued to increase.The only thing that really reduces the amount of oil that we consumeis much higher prices.As you can see, our own production has fallen offas our reservoirs have gotten old and expensive to drill out.We only have two percent of the world&#39;s oil reserves;65 percent of them are in the Persian Gulf.
时间： 9:46
zh-cn:这也导致了另一件事的发生。自一九六九年起，尼日利亚，或者说尼日利亚的产油区，也就是三角洲—面积约为马里兰州两倍大小—每年发生数千起石油泄漏事件。这就好像出口石油泄漏。当我们从那些缺乏严谨环境管理的地区进口石油，这与埃克森-瓦尔迪兹号油轮泄漏事件相同，一九六九年起的每一年都是如此。我们完全了解石油泄漏，因为我们目睹了这里所发生的一切，这些人所居住的是一个战区。这里每年有数千人死于交战，就在这个有着马里兰州两倍大面积的地方，这都与石油有关。这些人如果生活在美国，他们可能就在这个房间里。他们有可能有政治学或者商学学位。他们是企业家。他们事实上并不想做他们所从事的。这其实是另外一群人他们为我们付出代价。
en:One of the things that&#39;s happened because of thisis that, since 1969,the country of Nigeria, or the part of Nigeria that pumps oil,which is the delta — which is two times the size of Maryland —has had thousands of oil spills a year.I mean, we&#39;ve essentially been exporting oil spillswhen we import oil from placeswithout tight environmental regulations.That has been the equivalent of an Exxon Valdez spillevery year since 1969.And we can wrap our heads around the spills,because that&#39;s what we see here,but in fact, these guys actually live in a war zone.There&#39;s a thousand battle-related deaths a yearin this area twice the size of Maryland,and it&#39;s all related to the oil.And these guys, I mean, if they were in the U.S.,they might be actually here in this room.They have degrees in political science, degrees in business —they&#39;re entrepreneurs. They don&#39;t actually want to be doing what they&#39;re doing.And it&#39;s sort of one of the other groups of peoplewho pay a price for us.
时间：10:39
zh-cn:我们所做的另外一件事，由于我们持续增长需求，实则用成本来玩一个骗局。其中一个正在进行的一个巨大的石油项目的地方是在乍得，由埃克森石油公司负责。美国纳税人为此买单，世界银行，埃克森石油公司也为此付账。这是一个巨大的盗匪问题。二零零三年的时候我在那里。我们沿着这个很黑很黑的路行驶，有个穿着绿色衣服的人走了出去，我就说，“啊！这就是。”之后有个穿着埃克森制服的人走了出去，于是我们意识到一切正常。他们在油田有自己的私人军队驻守。但与此同时，乍得变得更加得不稳定，我们在加油站并不支付这些代价。我们以四月十五日纳的税来支付这些费用。
en:The other thing that we&#39;ve done,as we&#39;ve continued to increase demand,is that we kind of play a shell game with the costs.One of the places we put in a big oil projectin Chad, with Exxon.So the U.S. taxpayer paid for it;the World Bank, Exxon paid for it.We put it in. There was a tremendous banditry problem.I was there in 2003.We were driving along this dark, dark road,and the guy in the green stepped out,and I was just like, &quot;Ahhh! This is it.&quot;And then the guy in the Exxon uniform stepped out,and we realized it was okay.They have their own private sort of army around them at the oil fields.But at the same time,Chad has become much more unstable,and we are not paying for that price at the pump.We pay for it in our taxes on April 15th.
时间：11:24
zh-cn:我们做同样的事情用监管波斯湾的费用来维持海洋航道开放。这是一九八八年。那一年我们炸毁了两座伊朗的石油平台。那时美国刚开始升级对那里的干涉我们不在加油站支付（那些干涉的费用）。我们在四月十五日为此支付，而我们甚至不能计算出这些干涉的花费。另有一个地方，一直支持我们对于石油的依赖，支持我们增加消费，就是墨西哥湾，而此地并非暂缓钻油的一部分。现在在墨西哥湾发生了什么...正如你所见，这是关于汽油和石油井的矿产管理图表它变成了如此紧张的工业区。它和我们没有共鸣而北极野生生物国家保护区却有，但是它本该是个鸟类保护区。并且，每一次你在美国买汽油，其中的一半实际上是在海岸精炼的，因为海湾实际上拥有大约百分之五十的精炼生产量和很多的海运油库。因此在海湾的人们实质上是通过（生活在）一个较差的环境来补助我们。
en:We do the same thingwith the price of policing the Persian Gulfand keeping the shipping lanes open.This is 1988 —we actually bombed two Iranian oil platforms that year.That was the beginning of an escalating U.S. involvement therethat we do not pay for at the pump.We pay for it on April 15th,and we can&#39;t even calculate the cost of this involvement.The other place that is sort of supporting our dependence on oiland our increased consumptionis the Gulf of Mexico,which was not part of the moratoriums.Now what&#39;s happened in the Gulf of Mexico — as you can see,this is the Minerals Management diagramof wells for gas and oil.It&#39;s become this intense industrialized zone.It doesn&#39;t have the same resonance for usthat the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge has,but it should, I mean, it&#39;s a bird sanctuary.Also, every time you buy gasoline in the United States,half of it is actually being refined along the coast,because the Gulf actually hasabout 50 percent of our refining capacityand a lot of our marine terminals as well.So the people of the Gulf have essentially been subsidizing the rest of usthrough a less-clean environment.
时间：12:26
zh-cn:最后，美国的家庭也为石油付出代价。另一方面，在加油站所支付的价格并不是十分高的当你考虑到石油的实际成本，但在另一方面，事实是人们没有其他的运输选择也就是说他们支付他们工资的很大一部分用在往返于工作上，大部分在一个劣等的车上。如果你看到一些人他们一年挣五万美元，有两个孩子，他们可能有三个或多个工作，并且他们需要通勤。他们实际上在汽车和燃油上的花费比他们在税和医疗保健上的花费更多。同样的事情发生在百分之五十的比例上，大约有八万。汽油的成本在美国经济上是一个巨大的耗费，但是它也是每个个体家庭的巨大耗费，当价格上涨时就很难想象将会发生什么。
en:And finally, American families also pay a price for oil.Now on the one hand, the price at the pump is not really very highwhen you consider the actual cost of the oil,but on the other hand,the fact that people have no other transit optionsmeans that they pay a large amount of their incomeinto just getting back and forth to work,generally in a fairly crummy car.If you look at people who make $50,000 a year, they have two kids,they might have three jobs or more,and then they have to really commute.They&#39;re actually spending more on their car and fuelthan they are on taxes or on health care.And the same thing happensat the 50th percentile, around 80,000.Gasoline costs are a tremendous drainon the American economy,but they&#39;re also a drain on individual familiesand it&#39;s kind of terrifying to think about what happens when prices get higher.
时间：13:13
zh-cn:于是，我现在将向你们讲述的是：这一次我们要如何做呢？有哪些法律呢？我们做什么才能保持专注呢？其一就是，我们需要远离那些噱头。我们应该远离暂缓钻油。我们应该回过头来关注那些分子。暂缓钻油是可以的，但是我们需要关注石油的分子。还有一件事情我们需要去做的，是我们不应该愚弄我们自己认为我们不用减少石油用量，就可以拥有一个绿色世界。我们需要关注于减少石油。
en:So, what I&#39;m going to talk to you about now is:what do we have to do this time?What are the laws? What do we have to do to keep ourselves focused?One thing is — we need to stay away from the theater.We need to stay away from the moratoriums.We need to focus really back againon the molecules.The moratoriums are fine, but we do need to focuson the molecules on the oil.One of the things that we also need to do,is we need to try to not kind of fool ourselvesinto thinking that you can have a green world,before you reduce the amount of oil that we use.We need to focus on reducing the oil.
时间：13:45
zh-cn:现在你看到的这个图显示了石油在美国整个经济体中的运用。它从这边过来—有用的东西是深灰色的,这些无用的东西,被叫做废弃能量，这些废弃物，在上部。你可以看到这些废弃物大大多于实际有效用的总量。我们需要做的一件事情就是，不仅仅稳定我们交通工具的燃油效能使它们变得更加有效率，我们还需要稳定我们的经济大局。
en:What you see in this top drawing is a schematicof how petroleum gets used in the U.S. economy.It comes in on the side — the useful stuff is the dark gray,and the un-useful stuff,which is called the rejected energy — the waste,goes up to the top.Now you can see that the waste far outweighsthe actually useful amount.And one of the things that we need to dois, not only fix the fuel efficiency of our vehiclesand make them much more efficient,but we also need to fix the economy in general.
时间：14:12
zh-cn:我们需要尽量避免耗费更多的燃料。例如，我们有一个保险系统一个一年内驾驶两万英里的人与一个驾驶了三千英里的人交付同样的保险金。这其实是在鼓励人们行驶更长的里程。我们有奖励杂乱扩张的政策。我们有各种各样的政策。我们需要更多的灵活性选择。我们需要使汽油的价格更好的反应其真实的成本。我们要将把对石油工业的补助，每年至少一百亿美元，转移到改善那些使中产阶级的人们的处境上。是否能拥有更高效的汽车或是创造利用新型汽车和新型燃料的市场这才是我们需要做的。我们需要把这一切重新整理，你将发现更多关于这一政策的信息。这一政策叫做STRONG,” Secure Transportation, Reducing Oil Needs Gradually.&quot;“安全运输，并逐步减低石油用量”主旨是，与其处在一种无助状态，我们要变得更强。具体的内容在NewAmerica.net（网站）上。所有这些重要的是我们试图将在加油站的那种无助感转变为主动，认真思考我们是谁，在那一特殊的时刻，在加油站的我们是整个链接上的哪一个环节
en:We need to remove the perverse incentives to use more fuel.For example, we have an insurance systemwhere the person who drives 20,000 miles a yearpays the same insurance as somebody who drives 3,000.We actually encourage people to drive more.We have policies that reward sprawl — we have all kinds of policies.We need to have more mobility choices.We need to make the gas pricebetter reflect the real cost of oil.And we need to shift subsidies from the oil industry,which is at least 10 billion dollars a year,into something that allows middle-class people to find better ways to commute.Whether that&#39;s getting a much more efficient carand also kind of building marketsfor new cars and new fuels down the road,this is where we need to be.We need to kind of rationalize this whole thing,and you can find more about this policy.It&#39;s called STRONG, which is &quot;Secure TransportationReducing Oil Needs Gradually,&quot;and the idea is instead of being helpless, we need to be more strong.They&#39;re up at NewAmerica.net.What&#39;s important about theseis that we try to movefrom feeling helpless at the pump,to actually being activeand to really sort of thinking about who we are,having kind of that special moment,where we connect the dots actually at the pump.
时间：15:21
zh-cn:假如，石油税在美国的政治上是一个禁忌的话题—如同禁飞区。我同意一美元买一加仑的汽油是有点贵，但是我认为如果我们从今年开始以一加仑汽油三美分然后明年增加到六美分，后年九美分，一直这样增加到二零二零年的三十美分，如此这般就可以显著地减少我们对汽油的消费，同时我们应该给予人们准备的时间，反应的时间，收入提高的同时，人们的觉悟也在提高。让我来用一个简单的道理演示这如何工作。
en:Now supposedly, oil taxesare the third rail of American politics — the no-fly zone.I actually — I agree that a dollar a gallon on oilis probably too much,but I think that if we started this yearwith three cents a gallon on gasoline,and upped it to six cents next year, nine cents the following year,all the way up to 30 cents by 2020,that we could actually significantly reduce our gasoline consumption,and at the same time we would give people time to prepare,time to respond,and we would be raising money and raising consciousness at the same time.Let me give you a little sense of how this would work.
时间：15:56
zh-cn:这是一张汽油的收据，假设，从现在起一年。首先在这个税上的是，一个对“更强壮的美国”的税—三十三美分。如此在加油站的你将不再感觉无助。然后这里有一个警告的标示，与你在香烟盒子上看到的警告标示非常相似。它说的是，“国家科学院预测您的汽车所燃烧的每一加仑的汽油造成医疗保健的二十九美分代价。”这是很多的。如此一来—你可以看到你支付相当少的医疗保健费用在税收上。并且，期望是你开始和这整个庞大的系统连接起来。同时，有一个号码你可以拨打可以获取更多的关于通勤的信息，或者对一个不同汽车的低息贷款，无论如何你将确实地减少你对汽油的依赖。依据这整套的政策，我们可以实实在在地减少汽油的消费量—或是石油的消费量—百分之二十到二零二零年。也就是一天三百万桶。
en:This is a gas receipt, hypothetically, for a year from now.The first thing that you have on the tax is —you have a tax for a stronger America — 33 cents.So you&#39;re not helpless at the pump.And the second thing that you have is a kind of warning sign,very similar to what you would findon a cigarette pack.And what it says is, &quot;The National Academy of Sciencesestimates that every gallon of gas you burn in your carcreates 29 cents in health care costs.&quot;That&#39;s a lot.And so this — you can see that you&#39;re paying considerably lessthan the health care costs on the tax.And also, the hope is thatyou start to be connected to the whole greater system.And at the same time, you have a number that you can callto get more information on commuting,or a low-interest loan on a different kind of car,or whatever it is you&#39;re going to needto actually reduce your gasoline dependence.With this whole sort of suite of policies,we could actually reduce our gasoline consumption —or our oil consumption —by 20 percent by 2020.So, three million barrels a day.
时间：17:00
zh-cn:但是为了做这些，有一件事情我们必须要做的就是我们要记得我们是依赖碳氢化合物的人。我们必须集中精力在分子上不要被噱头所分心，不要因为认知失调而分神，这里根本不存在绿色可能性。我们需要着手认真的做些棘手的工作来减少我们对这些燃料和分子的依赖性。
en:But in order to do this,one of the things we really need to do, is we need to rememberwe are people of the hydrocarbon.We need to keep or minds on the moleculesand not get distracted by the theater,not get distracted by the cognitive dissonanceof the green possibilities that are out there.We need to kind of get down and do the gritty workof reducing our dependence upon this fuel and these molecules.
时间：17:20
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:22
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
