时间： 0:11
zh-cn:现在已经成为现实你可以从网上下载产品严格地说，是产品的数据然后可以根据自己的偏好进行个性化定制然后可以根据自己的偏好进行个性化定制把最终的信息发送到一台桌面电脑上然后电脑可以当场为您制作出产品。我们可以为你非常快捷地制造出产品，我们之所以能够这么做，是因为我们通过一项新兴技术这项技术叫做添加剂制造或者3D打印技术
en:It is actually a reality todaythat you can download products from the Web —product data, I should say, from the Web —perhaps tweak it and personalize itto your own preference or your own taste,and have that information sentto a desktop machinethat will fabricate it for you on the spot.We can actually build for you,very rapidly,a physical object.And the reason we can do thisis through an emerging technologycalled additive manufacturing,or 3D printing.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:这是一个3D打印机它们已经有30年的历史了它们已经有30年的历史了真是不可思议但是它们刚刚开始进入到公众的视野里一般来说，你需要数据像这支笔的数据这些数据是产品的3维几何表示然后我们把数据和原料放进一个机器里机器会按照程序一层一层地把产品造出来然后我们就造出来了这个产品马上就可以用或者可以和其他组合在一起
en:This is a 3D printer.They have been aroundfor almost 30 years now,which is quite amazing to think of,but they&#39;re only just startingto filter into the public arena.And typically, you would take data,like the data of a pen here,which would be a geometric representation of that product in 3D,and we would pass that data with materialinto a machine.And a process that would happen in the machinewould mean layer by layer that product would be built.And we can take out the physical product,and ready to use,or to, perhaps, assemble into something else.
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:尽管这项技术已经存在了30年为什么我们现在才知道？因为它们不够高效不容易利用它们不够快还有，成本太贵但是今天它成为了现实一步步走向成功障碍被克服现在人们可以很方便地使用这些机器但不是马上这可以最终改变制造业和我们的生活，我们的商业我们孩子的生活
en:But if these machines have been around for almost 30 years,why don&#39;t we know about them?Because typically they&#39;ve been too inefficient,inaccessible,they&#39;ve not been fast enough,they&#39;ve been quite expensive.But today,it is becoming a realitythat they are now becoming successful.Many barriers are breaking down.That means that you guyswill soon be able to access one of these machines,if not this minute.And it will change and disruptthe landscape of manufacturing,and most certainly our lives, our businessesand the lives of our children.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:它是如何做到的呢？通常用的是CAD数据它是一种设计数据这种数据利用专业的设计软件得到这里你可以看到一位工程师或者是一位建筑师或一位专业的产品设计师制造3D产品这些数据发往一个机器里在这台机器里数据被分割成一片片地，用二维来表示就这样就像切生鱼片一样一层层的数据送到机器里从这个产品的底层开始一层层的原料盖在一起新的一年盖住旧的一层层层叠叠这些一层层的原料或者是液态的或者是粉状的结合的方式可以是化了再融合，也可以是融合了再化这个例子中，我们看到EOS造的一个激光烧结机它用激光把新的一层化到旧的一层上面这样一来很快，大概几个小时我们就能得到一个产品马上可以拿出来用这是非常了不起的想法现在已经成为了现实
en:So how does it work?It typically reads CAD data,which is a product design datacreated on professional product design programs.And here you can see an engineer —it could be an architect or it could be a professional product designer —create a product in 3D.And this data gets sent to a machinethat slices the datainto two-dimensional representations of that productall the way through —almost like slicing it like salami.And that data, layer by layer, gets passed through the machine,starting at the base of the productand depositing material, layer upon layer,infusing the new layer of materials to the old layerin an additive process.And this material that&#39;s depositedeither starts as a liquid formor a material powder form.And the bonding process can happenby either melting and depositing or depositing then melting.In this case, we can see a laser sintering machine developed by EOS.It&#39;s actually using a laserto fuse the new layer of material to the old layer.And over time —quite rapidly actually, in a number of hours —we can build a physical product,ready to take out of the machine and use.And this is quite an extraordinary idea,but it is reality today.
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:你在屏幕上看到的这些产品都是利用这种方法造出来的它们都是3D打印出来的你可以看到有鞋子不锈钢的戒指手机塑料盖子还有脊柱植入物它们是利用医用级别的钛做出来的还有发动机零件你可以看到所有的这些产品都很精细复杂这项设计是非常不一般的我们可以得到3D的数据分切成一层层的，然后送到机器里我们实际上在创造一种非常精细的结构这比所有其他制造业都精细或者说，这对其他制造工艺来说是不可能完成的任务你还可以做出有移动部分的零件铰链，在零件中的零件
en:So all these products that you can see on the screenwere made in the same way.They were all 3D printed.And you can see,they&#39;re ranging from shoes,rings that were made out of stainless steal,phone covers out of plastic,all the way through to spinal implants, for example,that were created out of medical-grade titanium,and engine parts.But what you&#39;ll notice about all of these productsis they&#39;re very, very intricate.The design is quite extraordinary.Because we&#39;re taking this data in 3D form,slicing it up before it gets past the machine,we can actually create structuresthat are more intricatethan any other manufacturing technology —or, in fact, are impossible to build in any other way.And you can create parts with moving components,hinges, parts within parts.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:因此在某些情况下，我们可以用它来代替人工。听起来很不错的确很不错现在的3D打印机可以做出像这样的结构这个大概有3米高它是用大约5到10毫米厚的人工沙石一层一层地叠在一起就这样慢慢长出来的这是由一家到Shiro的建筑公司做出来的，你完全可以走进去。在另一方面还有这些很小些的结构它每一层的厚度仅有四微米。可做东西的范围是不可思议的做到的细节部分也是非常了不起的。
en:So in some cases, we can abolish totallythe need for manual labor.It sounds great.It is great.We can have 3D printers todaythat build structures like these.This is almost three meters high.And this was builtby depositing artificial sandstone layer upon layerin layers of about five millimeters to 10 mm in thickness —slowly growing this structure.This was created by an architectural firm called Shiro.And you can actually walk into it.And on the other end of the spectrum,this is a microstructure.It&#39;s created depositing layersof about four microns.So really the resolution is quite incredible.The detail that you can get todayis quite amazing.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:那么谁在用这项技术呢？通常来说，因为我们可以很快得做出这些产品所以，产品设计师会用到它，或者一些想把设计产品的原型变成实物以用来改进设计的人会用到它。实际上更让人惊奇的是，这项技术可以用来定制产品它们可以是很小的规模你可以很容易地做出一个一次性产品例如，设计师他们想用设计的建筑原型来做出实物你可以看到，这是柏林自由大学的一栋建筑，它是由福斯特建筑事务所设计的。这对其他方法来说是不可能的，用手来制作也是很困难的。
en:So who&#39;s using it?Typically, because we can create products very rapidly,it&#39;s been used by product designers,or anyone who wanted to prototype a productand very quickly create or reiterate a design.And actually what&#39;s quite amazing about this technology as wellis that you can create bespoke products en masse.There&#39;s very little economies of scale.So you can now create one-offs very easily.Architects, for example,they want to create prototypes of buildings.Again you can see,this is a building of the Free University in Berlinand it was designed by Foster and Partners.Again, not buildable in any other way.And very hard to even create this by hand.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:这是一个发动机零件，它是由一个叫Within Technologies 和 3T PRD的公司研发出来的。它是由一个叫Within Technologies 和 3T PRD的公司研发出来的。在这个设计中有很多细节。现在3D打印设计可以突破这些设计上的障碍，从而可以实现批量化的生产。从而可以实现批量化的生产。如果我们把它从中间切开，你可以看到里面有很多冷却管，这说明这个产品非常实用。这不可以通过标准的制造工艺做出来，甚至是手工来造。它非常有效，我们可以做出产品的这些空洞，它可以用来冷却液体，现在用于航天和汽车工业。它很轻，生产废料也很少。总的来说，相比于标准的批量化产品来说，它很有可行性又非常高效。总的来说，相比于标准的批量化产品来说，它很有可行性又非常高效。
en:Now this is an engine component.It was developed by a company called Within Technologiesand 3T RPD.It&#39;s very, very, very detailedinside with the design.Now 3D printingcan break away barriers in designwhich challenge the constraintsof mass production.If we slice into this product which is actually sitting here,you can see that it has a number of cooling channels pass through it,which means it&#39;s a more efficient product.You can&#39;t create this with standard manufacturing techniqueseven if you tried to do it manually.It&#39;s more efficientbecause we can now create all these cavities within the objectthat cool fluid.And it&#39;s used by aerospaceand automotive.It&#39;s a lighter partand it uses less material waste.So it&#39;s overall performance and efficiencyjust exceeds standard mass produced products.
时间： 6:51
zh-cn:利用这项技术，我们可以用来做出其他很细节的结构。我们可以做出蜂窝结构，用于植入物。一般来说，植入物有越多孔，它就越有效，这是因为身体组织可以长在里面，减少被排斥的机会。但是，如果用传统方法，这是非常困难的。利用3D打印技术，今天我们可以看到，它能够做出更好的植入物。实际上，所有我们可以做的定制化的产品，一次性的产品，植入物，还可以更为特别。
en:And then taking this ideaof creating a very detailed structure,we can apply it to honeycomb structuresand use them within implants.Typically an implantis more effective within the bodyif it&#39;s more porous,because our body tissue will grow into it.There&#39;s a lower chance of rejection.But it&#39;s very hard to create that in standard ways.With 3D printing,we&#39;re seeing todaythat we can create much better implants.And in fact, because we can createbespoke products en masse, one-offs,we can create implantsthat are specific to individuals.
时间： 7:29
zh-cn:你可以看到，这些技术以及利用其做出来的产品都是非常了不起的。现在我们来看，它能做出的最终产品。实际上，细节的提高，质量的提高，3D打印机价格的降低，能越来越快的做出产品。它们现在已经足够小，可以放到桌子上面。今天你只需要花上300美元 ，买一个3D打印机来自己做产品，这是很不可思议的。
en:So as you can see,this technology and the quality of what comes out of the machines is fantastic.And we&#39;re starting to see it being usedfor final end products.And in fact, as the detail is improving,the quality is improving,the price of the machines are fallingand they&#39;re becoming quicker.They&#39;re also now small enoughto sit on a desktop.You can buy a machine today for about $300that you can create yourself,which is quite incredible.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:现在有人就会问，为什么我们不能自己在家里面有一个呢？因为，简单来说，在场的各位不知道如何做出3D打印机能读取的数据。不知道如何做出3D打印机能读取的数据。如果我给你一个3D打印机，你会不知道如果指导它做出来你想要的东西。现在，技术的进步，越来越多的软件，正在打破这些障碍。我相信现在正位于一个转折点，我们无法避免。我们无法避免。这项技术，正在重塑制造业的布局。我相信，3D打印会引起制造业的革新。
en:But then it begs the question,why don&#39;t we all have one in our home?Because, simply, most of us here todaydon&#39;t know how to create the datathat a 3D printer reads.If I gave you a 3D printer,you wouldn&#39;t know how to direct itto make what you want it to.But there are more and moretechnologies, software and processes todaythat are breaking down those barriers.I believe we&#39;re at a tipping pointwhere this is now somethingthat we can&#39;t avoid.This technologyis really going to disruptthe landscape of manufacturingand, I believe, cause a revolutionin manufacturing.
时间： 8:38
zh-cn:今天，你可以从网上下载你想要的产品，任何你想要的，像铅笔，口哨，柠檬榨汁机等。你可以利用像Google SketchUp的软件，去很容易地做出这些产品。去很容易地做出这些产品。3D打印也可以用来从网上下载备用零件。想像一下，有天你的吸尘器坏了，你需要一个备用件，但是发现，Hoover已经停产了。想像一下，你可以直接去网上，现在已经成为现实在停产的数据库中，找到这个备用件，找到这个备用件，下载关于这个产品的信息，在家里把它做出来。并且马上就能用。实际上，因为我们可以做出备用件，这些机器其实可以做出来它们自己。这些机器其实可以做出来它们自己。机器可以自我复制。这些是RepRap机器的零件，它是一种桌面打印机。
en:So today,you can download products from the Web —anything you would have on your desktop,like pens, whistles, lemon squeezers.You can use software like Google SketchUpto create products from scratchvery easily.3D printing can be also usedto download spare parts from the Web.So imagine you have, say,a Hoover in your homeand it has broken down. You need a spare part,but you realize that Hoover&#39;s been discontinued.Can you imagine going online —this is a reality —and finding that spare partfrom a database of geometriesof that discontinued productand downloading that information, that data,and having the product made for you at home,ready to use, on your demand?And in fact, because we can create spare partswith things the machinesare quite literally making themselves.You&#39;re having machines fabricate themselves.These are parts of a RepRap machine,which is a kind of desktop printer.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:我们公司特别感兴趣的是，你可以做出属于你的，独一无二的东西。你不需要做出成千上万个，也不需要把零件送去中国组装。也不需要把零件送去中国组装。你可以当场就做出来。这意味着，我们可以向大众展示下一代的客户定制。有部分现在已经成为可能，你可以让打印机做出你想要的产品。
en:But what interests my company the mostis the fact that you can createindividual unique products en masse.There&#39;s no need to do a runof thousands of millionsor send that product to be injection molded in China.You can just make it physically on the spot.Which meansthat we can now present to the publicthe next generation of customization.This is something that is now possible today,that you can direct personallyhow you want your products to look.
时间：10:15
zh-cn:我们都很熟悉，定制或者个性化。像耐克这样的品牌正在这样做。完全都在网上进行。实际上，每个家喻户晓的公司你都会每天和他们的产品打交道。每天和他们的产品打交道。从Smart汽车，到Prada,再到Ray Ban.但这不是大规模定制，那是变种生产，同一种产品的变化。你现在能做的是完全的重塑你想要的产品。
en:We&#39;re all familiar with the ideaof customization or personalization.Brands like Nike are doing it.It&#39;s all over the Web.In fact, every major household nameis allowing youto interact with their productson a daily basis —all the way from Smart Carsto Pradato Ray Ban, for example.But this is not really mass customization;it&#39;s known as variant production,variations of the same product.What you could do is really influence your product nowand shape-manipulate your product.
时间：10:50
zh-cn:我不清楚你们有没有这种情况，我有过类似的经历，当我走进一家商店，想找那个我已经找了很久的一盏我知道可以摆在家里哪个地方的完美台灯，一盏我知道可以摆在家里哪个地方的完美台灯，但却哪也找不到。或者是一个完美的珠宝，用来送给我自己。想像一下，你可以跟厂家联系你可以跟厂家联系把自己的个人定制发给他们。
en:I&#39;m not sure about you guys,but I&#39;ve had experienceswhen I&#39;ve walked into a store and I&#39;ve know exactly what I&#39;ve wantedand I&#39;ve searched everywhere for that perfect lampthat I know where I want to sit in my houseand I just can&#39;t find the right thing,or that perfect piece of jewelryas a gift or for myself.Imagine that you can nowengage with a brandand interact,so that you can pass your personal attributesto the products that you&#39;re about to buy.
时间：11:22
zh-cn:今天，你可用这样的软件来在3D模式下查看你想要的产品。来在3D模式下查看你想要的产品。这是那些打印机能读取的3D数据。这是一个台灯，你可以重新来设计。你可以选你想要的颜色，或者材质。你可以改变形状，当然是在允许的范围。因为很显然，绝大部分人不会是专业的产品设计师，这个软件可以帮助人们在可选择的范围内进行个人定制。当有人准备购买这个定制好的产品时，你点一下“确认”键，这些个性化设计信息会转换成3D打印机可以读取的格式，然后被送到3D打印机，可能是某人的台式机。
en:You can todaydownload a product with software like this,view the product in 3D.This is the sort of 3D datathat a machine will read.This is a lamp.And you can start iterating the design.You can direct what color that product will be,perhaps what material.And also, you can engage in shape manipulation of that product,but within boundaries that are safe.Because obviously the public are not professional product designers.The piece of software will keep an individualwithin the bounds of the possible.And when somebody is ready to purchase the productin their personalized design,they click &quot;Enter&quot; and this data gets convertedinto the data that a 3D printer readsand gets passed to a 3D printer,perhaps on someone&#39;s desktop.
时间：12:14
zh-cn:但这并不会马上实现。我不认为会马上实现。现在我们能看到的情况是，那些数据传到当地的制造中心。这意味着这种做法很低碳。现在，我们不用把产品发往全世界，我们只需要把数据通过网络发往各地。这是正在制造的产品，你可以看到，一块块的被做出来，电器部分会后面加进来。这是一个台灯，你可以看到。只要你有这些数据，你就可以按自己的需求去做出来。
en:But I don&#39;t think that that&#39;s immediate.I don&#39;t think that will happen soon.What&#39;s more likely, and we&#39;re seeing it today,is that data gets sentto a local manufacturing center.This means lower carbon footprint.We&#39;re now, instead of shipping a product across the world,we&#39;re sending data across the Internet.Here&#39;s the product being built.You can see, this came out of the machine in one pieceand the electronics were inserted later.It&#39;s this lamp, as you can see here.So as long as you have the data,you can create the part on demand.
时间：12:45
zh-cn:你不只进行审美定制。还可以功能定制。扫描产品部分，做出合适的产品。我们可以做出假肢，这种因人而异的产品。或者为某人做出特别的假肢。扫描下你的牙齿，扫描下你的牙齿以后，可以做出符合你的牙齿。当你在等牙医的时候，一个机器正在做特别适合你的种植牙齿。
en:And you don&#39;t necessarily need to use thisfor just aesthetic customization,you can use it for functional customization,scanning parts of the bodyand creating things that are made to fit.So we can run this through to something like prosthetics,which is highly specialized to an individual&#39;s handicap.Or we can create very specific prostheticsfor that individual.Scanning teeth today,you can have your teeth scannedand dental coatings made in this way to fit you.While you wait at the dentist,a machine will quietly be creating this for youready to insert in the teeth.
时间：13:20
zh-cn:这种想法也用来制造移植物，核磁共振成像（MRI）的数据会变为3D格式，我们可以利用它来做出特别的植入物。利用这些造出我们身体你看到，这是肺和支气管非常的错踪复杂。你不能利用其他手段来模拟或制造出来。但是利用MRI数据，我们可以造出这个产品。你可以看到，非常的复杂。利用这项工艺，工业先驱们正在利用一层层的细胞其中的一位，Anthony Atala医生，他正在利用层叠的细胞，来做出身体器官——膀胱，瓣膜，肾脏这现在还没有用于大众，但是正在其过程中。
en:And the idea of now creating implants,scanning data, an MRI scan of somebodycan now be converted into 3D dataand we can create very specific implants for them.And applying thisto the idea of building up what&#39;s in our bodies.You know, this is pair of lungs and the bronchial tree.It&#39;s very intricate.You couldn&#39;t really create this or simulate it in any other way.But with MRI data,we can just build the product,as you can see, very intricately.Using this process,pioneers in the industry are layering up cells today.So one of the pioneers, for example, is Dr. Anthony Atala,and he has been workingon layering cells to create body parts —bladders, valves, kidneys.Now this is not something that&#39;s ready for the public,but it is in working progress.
时间：14:13
zh-cn:总结一下，我们都是不同的个体我们都有不同的偏好，不同的需求。我们都喜欢不同的东西。我们有不同的尺寸，公司也是这样。生意上需要不同的东西。毋庸置疑，我相信这项技术，会引发制造业的革命。从而改变我们知道的制造业。
en:So just to finalize, we&#39;re all individual.We all have different preferences, different needs.We like different things.We&#39;re all different sizes and our companies the same.Businesses want different things.Without a doubt in my mind,I believe that this technologyis going to cause a manufacturing revolutionand will change the landscape of manufacturing as we know it.
时间：14:33
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
