时间： 0:13
zh-cn:我的作品里面是用我自己身体的消失来质疑人类创造的文明以及人自身发展所互相制约的关系。用我自己身体的消失，来探索、并质疑人类创造的文明以及人自身发展的矛盾、和经常性的互相制约关系。
en:Liu Bolin: By making myself invisible,I try to question the inter-canceling relationshipbetween our civilization and its development.Interpreter: By making myself invisible, I try to explore and questionthe contradictory and often inter-canceling relationshipbetween our civilization and its development.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:这是我的第一件作品，是在 2005 年的十一月。我所在的索家村国际艺术营被政府强行拆掉，我用这个作品来表达我的抗议，也想用这件作品来引起更多的人对艺术家生存状态以及艺术创作自由的关注。同时，我这个系列的开始也注定了它抗议、反思，以及毫不妥协的精神。我在化妆的时候借用了狙击手的化妆方法，这样呢可以更好地保护自己以及发现敌人，像他一样。（笑）
en:LB: This is my first work, created in November 2005.And this is Beijing International Art Camp where I workedbefore the government forcibly demolished it.I used this work to express my objection.I also want to use this work to let more peoplepay attention to the living condition of artists and the condition of their creative freedom.In the meantime, from the beginning, this series has aprotesting, reflectiveand uncompromising spirit.When applying makeup, I borrow a sniper&#39;s methodto better protect myselfand to detect the enemy, as he did. (Laughter)
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:抗议这个系列做完以后，我开始质问我的命运为什么有如此遭遇。我发现不光我一个人，所有的中国人，都有和我一样的困惑。大家看到的这些作品，关于计划生育、依法选举，以及宣传人民代表大会制度的。
en:After finishing this series of protests,I started questioning why my fate was like this,and I realized that it&#39;s not just me —all Chinese are as confused as I am.As you can see, these worksare about family planning, election in accordance with the lawand propaganda of the institution of the People&#39;s Congress.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:这件作品的题目叫“下岗”，下岗是一个中国语境的词汇，它是指离开工作岗位，是指中国在由计划经济往市场经济转型过程中失去工作岗位的这些人。从 1998 年到 2000 年两年期间，在中国失去工作的这些人就有 2137 万人。照片中的 6 个人，就是下岗职工，我把他们消失在他们曾经工作生活了一辈子的废弃的车间里面。后面的墙上写着文革时期的标语：“领导我们事业的核心力量是中国共产党”。我用了半个月的时间，来找这 6 个人参与我的作品。我们在照片中看到的只有 6 个人，但其实，在这隐藏的，是所有有下岗经历的这些人，他们只是被隐形了。
en:This work is called Xia Gang (&quot;leaving post&quot;).&quot;Xia Gang&quot; is a Chinese euphemism for &quot;laid off&quot;.It refers to those people who lost their jobs during China&#39;s transition from a planned economy to a market economy.From 1998 to 2000,21.37 million peoplelost their jobs in China.The six people in the photoare Xia Gang workers.I made them invisible in the deserted shop wherethey had lived and worked all their lives.On the wall behind them is the slogan of the Cultural Revolution:&quot;The core force leading our cause forward is the Chinese Communist Party.&quot;For half a monthI looked for these 6 people to participate in my work.We can only see six men in this picture,but in fact, those who are hidden hereare all people who were laid off. They have just been made invisible.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:这件作品叫“直播间”。今年春天，我在巴黎的个展正好有机会在法国电视三台的新闻直播间拍一件作品，我挑选的当天发生的这些新闻图片，一张是关于中东战争，另外一张是关于法国民众的示威游行。我发现任何文化都有它不可调和的矛盾。
en:This piece is called The Studio.This spring,I happened to have an opportunity during my solo exhibition in Paristo shoot a work in the news studio of France 3 —I picked the news photos of the day.One is about the war in the Middle East,and another one is about a public demonstration in France.I found that any culture has its irreconcilable contradictions.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:这件作品是我和法国艺术家 JR 的合作。这件作品是我和法国艺术家 JR 的合作。
en:This is a joint effort between me and French artist JR.Interpreter: This is a joint effort between me and French artist JR.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:我把 JR 消失到我的眼睛里面，但是 JR 的所有作品里面的模特眼睛都特别大，我其实我做这个动作是想让我的眼睛更大一点，可是没办法，我眼睛还是那么小。我试着消失到 JR 的眼睛里面，但是 JR 的所有作品里面的模特眼睛都特别大，我做这个手势是想让我的眼睛更大一点，可是没办法，我眼睛对 JR 来说还是不够大。(笑）
en:LB: I tried to disappear into JR&#39;s eye,but the problem is JR only uses models with big eyes.So I tried to make my eyes bigger with my fingers.But still they are not big enough for JR, unfortunately.Interpreter: So I tried to disappear into JR&#39;s eye,but the problem is JR uses only models with big eyes.So I tried to make my eyes bigger with this gesture.But it doesn&#39;t work, my eyes are still small.
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:这件作品是关于 911 的一些回忆。
en:LB: This one is about 9/11 memories.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:这是在哈得逊河的旁边停靠的航空母舰。
en:This is an aircraft carrier moored alongside the Hudson River.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:肯尼·沙尔夫的涂鸦 (Kenny Scharf Mural)（笑）
en:Kenny Scharf&#39;s graffiti.(Laughter)
时间： 3:59
zh-cn:这是在意大利的威尼斯，因为全球的温度升高，海平面上涨，有消息称威尼斯将在未来的几十年内消失。这是意大利的庞贝古城，这是意大利的庞贝古城，这是罗马的博尔盖塞美术馆 (Borghese Gallery)。
en:This is Venice, Italy.Because global temperatures rise,the sea level rises, and it is said thatVenice will disappear in the coming decades.This is the ancient city of Pompeii.Interpreter: This is the ancient city of Pompeii.LB: This is the Borghese Galleryin Rome.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:我在拍新作品的时候，我会更加注重思想的表达。比如说我为什么要消失，我消失在这儿会引起人们什么样的思考。
en:When I work on a new piece, I pay more attention to the expression of ideas.For instance, why would I make myself invisible?What will making myself invisible here cause people to think?
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:这件作品的题目叫“方便面”。这件作品的题目叫“方便面”。（笑）从 2012 年的 8 月，在中国超市里各大知名的桶装方便面品牌的杯包装里，都发现了有害的荧光粉，这些荧光粉甚至可以致癌。我为了拍这件作品，我又买了大量的桶装方便面，在我的工作室里做成超市的样子。然后我的任务就是站在那儿，尽量不动，摆好相机的位置，然后配合我的助手。把我身体后面挡住的一些颜色和形状在我身体前面画出来。如果背景简单的话，我一般要站三到四个小时。像这件作品背景比较复杂，我一般就需要提前三到四天就开始准备。我身上这件衣服就是拍这件作品的时候完成的，没有任何电脑的痕迹。我身上这件衣服就是在超市拍这件作品时所穿的衣服，没有使用任何 Photoshop 修图。（笑）
en:This one is called Instant Noodles.Interpreter: This one is called Instant Noodles. (Laughter)LB: Since August 2012,harmful phosphors have been foundin the instant noodle package cups from every famous brand sold in China&#39;s supermarkets.These phosphors can even cause cancer.To create this artwork,I bought a lot of packaged instant noodle cupsand put them in my studio, making it look like a supermarket.And my task is to stand there, trying to be still,setting up the camera position and coordinating with my assistantand drawing the colors and shapes that are behind my bodyon the front of my body. If the background is simple,I usually have to stand for three to four hours.The background of this piece is more complex,so I need three to four days in advance for preparation.This is the suit I wore when I did the supermarket shoot.There is no Photoshop involved.Interpreter: This is the suit I [was] wearing when I did the supermarket shoot.There is no Photoshop involved. (Laughter)
时间： 6:11
zh-cn:这几件作品是关于中国的文化记忆。
en:LB: These works are on China&#39;s cultural memories.
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:还有这种，这是关于中国的食品安全。不安全的食品可以危害人的身体，然后泛滥的杂志可以迷惑人的心智。（笑）接下来的几件作品都是我在不同国家、不同时间，我把自己消失在不同文字的杂志里。
en:And this one,this is about food safety in China.Unsafe food can harm people&#39;s health,and a deluge of magazines can confuse people&#39;s minds. (Laughter)The next pieces of work show how I made myself invisible in magazines of different languages,in different countries and at different times.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:我觉得在艺术作品中，艺术家的态度最重要。艺术作品如果想打动别人，不仅仅是它的技巧，同样是它的思考和生命挣扎，而一次次的生命挣扎就会成为艺术作品，不管它的形式是什么。
en:I think that in art, an artist&#39;s attitude is the most important element.If an artwork is to touch someone,it must be the result of not only technique, but also the artist&#39;s thinking and struggle in life.And the repeated struggles in life create artwork,no matter in what form.
时间： 7:08
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 7:29
zh-cn:我所要说的就到此为止。
en:That&#39;s all I want to say.
时间： 7:30
zh-cn:谢谢。（鼓掌）
en:Thank you. (Applause)
