时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们是谁?这是一个很大的问题。但是从本质上讲，我们只不过是能够直立行走、拥有一个相对较大的大脑、智力超群的猿猴罢了。这个可能就是我们（若干年前）。我们属于“人科”这个家族。我们这个物种的学名叫做“智人”记住这个很重要。至于我们今天在这个世界上所属的位置，以及我们的未来，
en:Who are we?That is the big question.And essentially we are just an upright-walking, big-brained,super-intelligent ape.This could be us.We belong to the family called the Hominidae.We are the species called Homo sapiens sapiens,and it&#39;s important to remember that,in terms of our place in the world todayand our future on planet Earth.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:我们是今天生存在这个星球上的大约五千五百种哺乳动物种的一种。而这只是曾经生活在地球上的所有物种的一小部分。我们是在过去的6-8百万年中生存过的16种能够直立行走的猿类动物之一。但就目前所知，我们是唯一至今还存活在地球上的直立行走的猿类，除了倭黑猩猩以外。
en:We are one speciesof about five and a half thousand mammalian speciesthat exist on planet Earth today.And that&#39;s just a tiny fraction of all speciesthat have ever lived on the planet in past times.We&#39;re one species out of approximately,or let&#39;s say, at least 16 upright-walking apesthat have existed over the past six to eight million years.But as far as we know, we&#39;re the only upright-walking apethat exists on planet Earth today, except for the bonobos.
时间： 1:13
zh-cn:记住这一点是很重要的,因为倭黑猩猩和人类如此相像,他们99%的基因都与我们相同,同时我们跟有限的几种现存猿类有着共同的祖先。要记住我们由猿进化而来，我知道这对有些人来说是不敬的说法,但我们的确与大猩猩、黑猩猩和倭黑猩猩有着同样的祖先。我们有同样的过去，和同样的未来,而且要记住的是所有的猿类都有着同样有趣的进化旅程,就像我们人类一样。正是这个旅程对人类意义重大,也正是这个旅程成为了我们家祖上三代以来一直关注的焦点。我们一直在东非寻找我们祖先进化的化石遗存，试图把这些碎片拼起来，重现人类的进化过程。
en:And it&#39;s important to remember that,because the bonobos are so human,and they share 99 percent of their genes with us.And we share our origins with a handful of the living great apes.It&#39;s important to remember that we evolved.Now, I know that&#39;s a dirty word for some people,but we evolved from common ancestorswith the gorillas, the chimpanzee and also the bonobos.We have a common past, and we have a common future.And it is important to remember that all of these great apeshave come on as long and as interesting evolutionary journeyas we ourselves have today.And it&#39;s this journey that is of such interest to humanity,and it&#39;s this journey that has been the focusof the past three generations of my family,as we&#39;ve been in East Africa looking for the fossil remainsof our ancestors to try and piece together our evolutionary past.
时间： 2:22
zh-cn:这就是我们寻找的过程.一群非常敬业的年轻人慢慢的行走在广袤的非洲大地,在搜寻露出地表的骨头和化石碎片。这仅是一个例子，是我们在肯尼亚北部搜寻化石的一个例子。我怀疑许多观众看不清楚图片里的化石。但如果你仔细看，这里有一个颚骨—下颚—，属于一个四百一十万年前直立行走的猿类，是在Turkana lake的西边找到的。（笑声）这是非常耗时，耗力的一项大工程,而且即将有越来越多的人参与其中，重构我们人类的进化史。至今为止我们还没有一个完整的框架。
en:And this is how we look for them.A group of dedicated young men and women walk very slowlyout across vast areas of Africa,looking for small fragments of bone, fossil bone, that may be on the surface.And that&#39;s an example of what we may do as we walk acrossthe landscape in Northern Kenya, looking for fossils.I doubt many of you in the audience can seethe fossil that&#39;s in this picture,but if you look very carefully, there is a jaw, a lower jaw,of a 4.1-million-year-old upright-walking apeas it was found at Lake Turkana on the west side.(Laughter)It&#39;s extremely time-consuming, labor-intensiveand it is something that is going to involve a lot more people,to begin to piece together our past.We still really haven&#39;t got a very complete picture of it.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:当我们发现一片化石后，我们对它进行标记。今天我们有了先进的技术，我们有全球定位系统GPS.我们用GPS的位置信息对它进行标记，同时我们也对化石进行数码拍照，以便于我们能够把它放回原来的位置，就是我们找到它时的确切位置。如今我们可以把这些信息放到地理资源系统（GIS）中进行分析。当我们发现了重要的信息，例如人类祖先的骨骼化石,我们就开始非常小心翼翼的对它进行挖掘，使用牙签和很细的毛刷。然后所有的遗骸都要经过这个筛子进行过滤，然后还要进行再次过滤，寻找小骨头碎片，之后再进行清洗。
en:When we find a fossil, we mark it.Today, we&#39;ve got great technology: we have GPS.We mark it with a GPS fix,and we also take a digital photograph of the specimen,so we could essentially put it back on the surface,exactly where we found it.And we can bring all this information into big GIS packages, today.When we then find something very important,like the bones of a human ancestor,we begin to excavate it extremely carefully and slowly,using dental picks and fine paintbrushes.And all the sediment is then put through these screens,and where we go again through it very carefully,looking for small bone fragments, and it&#39;s then washed.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:做这件事经常让我很兴奋。这些是唯一的,或者是第一次跟人类的会面。这就是一个非常特殊的时刻，使我跟母亲一起挖掘出猿人的骨骼残骸的时刻,这是你跟母亲一起做的最特别的事情之一。（笑声）并不是很多人都能够这么说。
en:And these things are so exciting. They are so often the only,or the very first time that anybody has ever seen the remains.And here&#39;s a very special moment, when my mother and myselfwere digging up some remains of human ancestors.And it is one of the most special thingsto ever do with your mother.(Laughter)Not many people can say that.
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:现在，让我把你们带回到200万年前的非洲.我想指出的是，你要是仔细看看非洲的地图，它的形状实际上跟人类的头颅十分相似。下面我们来到非洲东部去看看东非大裂谷.它实际上开始于亚丁湾，一直延伸到马拉维湖，裂谷是一条深陷区域，这是一个盆地，河流从高地流进盆地,带着很多沉积物，其中夹杂了曾经生活在那一带的动物骨骼残骸。
en:But now, let me take you back to Africa, two million years ago.I&#39;d just like to point out, if you look at the map of Africa,it does actually look like a hominid skull in its shape.Now we&#39;re going to go to the East African and the Rift Valley.It essentially runs up from the Gulf of Aden,or runs down to Lake Malawi.And the Rift Valley is a depression.It&#39;s a basin, and rivers flow down from the highlands into the basin,carrying sediment, preserving the bones of animals that lived there.
时间： 5:15
zh-cn:如果你想成为一个化石，那就要死在那些骨骼会被迅速埋藏的地方。然后你就盼望着地球的运动能将这些骨骼重新带回到地球表面。然后你还要期望我们其中的一员将会找到你的化石碎片。（笑声）所以说，这是一件让人自豪的事情，我们对我们的祖先能了解到我们现在所了解的程度，因为这是及其困难的,首先，这些东西要能被埋藏和保留，其次，它们要能够重新露出地表面。我们其实用了50年去寻找这些骨骼碎片,并开始拼凑我们进化的故事 .
en:If you want to become a fossil, you actually need to die somewherewhere your bones will be rapidly buried.You then hope that the earth moves in such a wayas to bring the bones back up to the surface.And then you hope that one of us lotwill walk around and find small pieces of you.(Laughter)OK, so it is absolutely surprising that we know as muchas we do know today about our ancestors,because it&#39;s incredibly difficult,A, for these things to become — to be — preserved,and secondly, for them to have been brought back up to the surface.And we really have only spent 50 years looking for these remains,and begin to actually piece together our evolutionary story.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:让我们看看turkana湖，它是一个湖盆地在我的国家肯尼亚的最北部。如果你看北边，有一条很大的河流流入湖中，河流携带了含有动物遗迹的沉积物那些曾经生活在那一带的动物。化石可能在湖盆的任何位置被发现，也就是大约2万平方英里的区域。这是我们碰到的一项大工程。2百万年前在Turkana湖,直立猿人，我们人类祖先的一支，就曾经生活在这个区域。你可以看到我们在北部涉足过的一些主要的化石遗址。但事实上两百万年前右上角的直立猿人,和其余的三个种类的人类祖先都曾居住在这一带。这里是一个直立猿人的颅骨，我刚从架子上拿下来的。（笑声）
en:So, let&#39;s go to Lake Turkana, which is one such lake basinin the very north of our country, Kenya.And if you look north here, there&#39;s a big river that flows into the lakethat&#39;s been carrying sediment and preserving the remainsof the animals that lived there.Fossil sites run up and down both lengths of that lake basin,which represents some 20,000 square miles.That&#39;s a huge job that we&#39;ve got on our hands.Two million years ago at Lake Turkana,Homo erectus, one of our human ancestors,actually lived in this region.You can see some of the major fossil sites that we&#39;ve been workingin the north. But, essentially, two million years ago,Homo erectus, up in the far right corner,lived alongside three other species of human ancestor.And here is a skull of a Homo erectus,which I just pulled off the shelf there.(Laughter)
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:但并不是说地球上只能存在单一物种，事实上，你要是回到从前,多种人科动物并存，或者拥有共同祖先的人科动物并存是很常见的事情。他们来自何方？这正是我们试图找到答案的问题。而且意识到物种的多样性是非常重要的，我们的祖先也不例外。这里是一些化石的重建结果，它们是在Turkana湖被发现的。
en:But it is not to say that being a single species on planet Earth is the norm.In fact, if you go back in time,it is the norm that there are multiple species of hominidsor of human ancestors that coexist at any one time.Where did these things come from?That&#39;s what we&#39;re still trying to find answers to,and it is important to realize that there is diversityin all different species, and our ancestors are no exception.Here&#39;s some reconstructions of some of the fossilsthat have been found from Lake Turkana.
时间： 7:39
zh-cn:我很幸运在肯尼亚长大，能陪伴父母亲去Turkana湖去寻找祖先的足迹。当我们长到一定年纪的时候，我们曾经挖出了像长嘴鳄这样的化石，我们还挖出了巨星龟，大象骨骸这样类似的东西。这张图片是我12岁时拍的,那时候在湖盆西部产生了一个让人兴奋的发现，他们发现了直立猿人的骨骼.
en:But I was very lucky to have been brought up in Kenya,essentially accompanying my parents to Lake Turkanain search of human remains.And we were able to dig up, when we got old enough,fossils such as this, a slender-snouted crocodile.And we dug up giant tortoises, and elephants and things like that.But when I was 12, as I was in this picture,a very exciting expedition was in place on the west side,when they found essentially the skeleton of this Homo erectus.
时间： 8:13
zh-cn:我对这个骨架记忆犹新，因为他死去时的年纪跟我那时候的年纪正好一样。我把他想象成一个个头很高的黑小伙。他和兄弟们一定跑了很长的路去追赶猎物，而汗流浃背。他会用石头当做工具，这个个体，就是我手上拿着的这个，事实上他的背不是很好—很可能在孩童时受过伤.他由于脊柱侧弯因此必须一直要女性悉心照料他可能是家里比较小的成员，年仅12岁.不幸的是，他掉进沼泽里再也没能出来.实际上，他的骨头很快被埋没，并至今保存完好。
en:I could relate to this Homo erectus skeleton very well,because I was the same age that he was when he died.And I imagined him to be tall, dark-skinned.His brothers certainly were able to run long distanceschasing prey, probably sweating heavily as they did so.He was very able to use stones effectively as tools.And this individual himself, this one that I&#39;m holding up here,actually had a bad back. He&#39;d probably had an injury as a child.He had a scoliosis and therefore must have been looked afterquite carefully by other female, and probably much smaller,members of his family group, to have got to where he did in life, age 12.Unfortunately for him, he fell into a swampand couldn&#39;t get out.Essentially, his bones were rapidly buriedand beautifully preserved.
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:他一直躺在那 直到160万年后这位非常有名的化石猎人,Kamoya Kimeu,沿着一个小山坡发现一小块头颅骨骼露在表面躺在鹅卵石中间，他意识到这是祖先的头骨骼.其实就是最上面的这一小块头颅骨骼。挖掘工程立即开始了,越来越多的头颅碎片从沉淀中提取.这是一项多么有趣的事啊—头颅骨向树边移动,这棵树是在离现在很近的时候长成大树的，但他发现头骨碎片已经在山坡上找到了水流。于是它决定长出自己的根须，将骨头围住，防止它们被水流冲走。我们陆续发现了尺骨，指骨,骨盆、脊椎、肋骨、锁骨,这些对于直立猿类来说都是史无前例的发现。实在太令人兴奋了.他的骨骼和我们非常相似,而且他代表的就是即将进化成人的一类。
en:And he remained there until 1.6 million years later,when this very famous fossil hunter, Kamoya Kimeu,walked along a small hillsideand found that small piece of his skull lying on the surfaceamongst the pebbles, recognized it as being hominid.It&#39;s actually this little piece up here on the top.Well, an excavation was begun immediately,and more and more little bits of skullstarted to be extracted from the sediment.And what was so fun about it was this:the skull pieces got closer and closer to the roots of the tree,and fairly recently the tree had grown up,but it had found that the skull had captured nice water in the hillside,and so it had decided to grow its roots in and around this,holding it in place and preventing it from washing away down the slope.We began to find limb bones; we found finger bones,the bones of the pelvis, vertebrae, ribs, the collar bones,things that had never, ever been seen before in Homo erectus.It was truly exciting.He had a body very similar to our own,and he was on the threshold of becoming human.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:不过，没过多久，这类物种就开始向比非洲更北的方向迁移，他们的化石就逐渐在在格鲁吉亚、中国，以及印度尼西亚的一些地方被发现。所以，直立猿类是第一个离开非洲的人类祖先，之后他们就开始遍布全球了。有一些令人振奋的发现，我前面提到过，是在格鲁吉亚共和国的Dmanisi 发现的。最近又有一些让人惊喜的发现发生在印尼弗洛雷斯岛上，有一群人类祖先被隔离在了岛上，他们逐渐变成了侏儒，只有大约一米高。他们生存在距今只有一万八千年前,这是真正值得我们去研究的问题。
en:Well, shortly afterwards, members of his speciesstarted to move northwards out of Africa,and you start to see fossils of Homo erectusin Georgia, China and also in parts of Indonesia.So, Homo erectus was the first human ancestor to leave Africaand begin its spread across the globe.Some exciting finds, again, as I mentioned,from Dmanisi, in the Republic of Georgia.But also, surprising findsrecently announced from the Island of Flores in Indonesia,where a group of these human ancestors have been isolated,and have become dwarfed, and they&#39;re only about a meter in height.But they lived only 18,000 years ago,and that is truly extraordinary to think about.
时间：11:26
zh-cn:如果用”代“来计算的话，因为这样人们理解起来比较方便，直立猿人是在9万代之前离开非洲的。我们人类的血统基本上都是从非洲承传而来的。我们人类大概经历了20万年进化成今天的样子，而我们离开非洲只有7万年。而且直到3万年前，至少有三个能够直立行走的类人猿同时生活在这个星球上。
en:Just to put this in terms of generations,because people do find it hard to think of time,Homo erectus left Africa 90,000 generations ago.We evolved essentially from an African stock.Again, at about 200,000 years as a fully-fledged us.And we only left Africa about 70,000 years ago.And until 30,000 years ago, at least three upright-walking apesshared the planet Earth.
时间：11:55
zh-cn:现在的问题是：我们到底是谁？毋庸置疑，我们是环境污染，浪费资源，强取豪夺的物种，偶尔做一些好事情。（笑声）大多是时候我们的行为不令人愉悦。我们比先人有着体积更大的大脑。这究竟是一个有益的进化过程，还是我们向着地球上最短寿灵长动物这个方向发展的必经之路？
en:The question now is, well, who are we?We&#39;re certainly a polluting, wasteful, aggressive species,with a few nice things thrown in, perhaps.(Laughter)For the most part, we&#39;re not particularly pleasant at all.We have a much larger brain than our ape ancestors.Is this a good evolutionary adaptation, or is it going to lead usto being the shortest-lived hominid species on planet Earth?
时间：12:27
zh-cn:是什么使我们成为我们？我想是我们集体智慧的结晶。使我们记录历史的本领，以及我们的语言和意识。从最原始的开端，使用着最简陋的石器工具，到现在及其发达的工具，人类对工具的使用以经达到了一个前所未有的水平。我们已经有能力登陆火星，我们还能绘制人类基因组，最近我们由具备了重组生命的本领，这归功于Craig Venter.
en:And what is it that really makes us us?I think it&#39;s our collective intelligence.It&#39;s our ability to write things down,our language and our consciousness.From very primitive beginnings, with a very crude tool kit of stones,we now have a very advanced tool kit, and our tool usehas really reached unprecedented levels:we&#39;ve got buggies to Mars; we&#39;ve mapped the human genome;and recently even created synthetic life, thanks to Craig Venter.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:我们已经能够跟世界上任何角落的人们进行沟通，不管从什么偏远的地方。即便是在肯尼亚北部的山洞里。我们能够告诉外界我们在做什么。像阿尔戈尔提醒我们的那样，在这个地球上生存的人口已经非常庞大了。人类祖先只能在地球上生存,如果你看这些化石记录,他们每次只能平均存活一百万年,作为一个物种，我们人类存在了仅仅20万年，而我们的数量已经达到了65亿多。
en:And we&#39;ve also managed to communicate with peopleall over the world, from extraordinary places.Even from within an excavation in northern Kenya,we can talk to people about what we&#39;re doing.As Al Gore so clearly has reminded us,we have reached extraordinary numbersof people on this planet.Human ancestors really only survive on planet Earth,if you look at the fossil record,for about, on average, a million years at a time.We&#39;ve only been around for the past 200,000 years as a species,yet we&#39;ve reached a population of more than six and a half billion people.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:去年，我们的人口增加了8千万。我的意思是，这个数字是相当庞大的。这里，还是引用阿尔.戈尔的书，我们的技术已经对人口增长失去了制衡的作用。我们必须控制这个数字，我认为这跟我们所从事的其他任何事情是同等重要的。我们必须控制我们的人口数量因为人太多了这个物种的生存就会有问题。
en:And last year, our population grew by 80 million.I mean, these are extraordinary numbers.You can see here, again, taken from Al Gore&#39;s book.But what&#39;s happened is our technologyhas removed the checks and balances on our population growth.We have to control our numbers, and I think this is as importantas anything else that&#39;s being done in the world today.But we have to control our numbers,because we can&#39;t really hold it together as a species.
时间：14:11
zh-cn:我的父亲说得很对，我们人类是唯一的能够有意识的做出不利于自身生存的选择的动物，我们能够很好的生存下去吗？有一点很重要：我们都是从非洲大陆上进化而来的，我们都有一个非洲血统，我们有着同样的过去和共同的未来.对进化而言，我们只是昙花一现，我们坐在悬崖边缘，我们拥有最好的工具和科技去帮我们实现让我们这个物种继续生存下去的目标。如果我们想的话，我们当然可以告诉每一个人，但我们会这样做吗？还是听从大自然的选择？
en:My father so appropriately put it,that &quot;We are certainly the only animal that makes conscious choicesthat are bad for our survival as a species.&quot;Can we hold it together?It&#39;s important to remember that we all evolved in Africa.We all have an African origin.We have a common past and we share a common future.Evolutionarily speaking, we&#39;re just a blip.We&#39;re sitting on the edge of a precipice,and we have the tools and the technology at our handsto communicate what needs to be doneto hold it together today.We could tell every single human being out there, if we really wanted to.But will we do that, or will we just let nature take its course?
时间：15:08
zh-cn:最后，我们乐观面对,从进化的角度而言,这到头来也许是一件不错的事情，让它顺其自然吧,非常感谢.（掌声）
en:Well, to end on a very positive note,I think evolutionarily speaking,this is probably a fairly good thing, in the end.I&#39;ll leave it at that, thank you very much.(Applause)
