时间： 0:11
zh-cn:当我从加州大学洛杉矶分校(UCLA)毕业后，我搬到北加州我住在一个叫做Elk的小镇里在门多西诺海岸我没有电话、没有电视，但有美国邮政如果你还记得，那时的生活蛮不错的我会去百货店享用咖啡和布朗尼，把我的底片运到旧金山，你瞧，两天后我就能收到（冲洗的照片）这可比在好莱坞与繁忙的交通奋斗要好多了。（音乐响起）我那时没什么钱但我有时间和对奇迹的感知（音乐）
en:When I graduated UCLA, I moved to northern California,and I lived in a little town called Elkon the Mendocino coast,and I didn&#39;t have a phone or TV, but I had U.S. mail,and life was good back then, if you could remember it.I&#39;d go to the general store for a cup of coffeeand a brownie, and I&#39;d ship my filmto San Francisco, and lo and behold, two days later,it would end up on my front door,which was way better than having to fight the trafficof Hollywood. (Music)I didn&#39;t have much money,but I had time and a sense of wonder. (Music)
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:我开始延时摄影我能花上一个月时间来完成四分钟长的一卷胶卷，因为那是我负担得起的
en:So I started shooting time-lapse photography.It would take me a month to shoot a four-minuteroll of film, because that&#39;s all I could afford.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:我一直用延时摄影拍摄花朵没有间断，每天24小时，每周七天至今已经30年。看花朵运动就像看一场我永远不会厌倦的舞蹈那种美带给我们无上的享受，色彩、品味、感动。它们还为我们提供1/3的食物（音乐）美与诱惑是自然界的生存工具因为我们会保护我们爱上的东西它们打开我们的心扉，让我们认识到我们是自然的一份子，不曾分离当我们身处自然之中，自然也联系到我们每一个人，因为显而易见我们是浑然一体的
en:I&#39;ve been shooting time-lapse flowers continuously,non-stop, 24 hours a day, seven days a week,for over 30 years, and to see them moveis a dance I&#39;ll never get tired of.Their beauty immerses us with color, taste, touch.It also provides a third of the food we eat.(Music)Beauty and seduction is nature&#39;s tools for survival,because we protect what we fall in love with.It opens our hearts, and makes us realizewe are a part of nature and we&#39;re not separate from it.When we see ourselves in nature, it also connects usto every one of us, because it&#39;s clearthat it&#39;s all connected in one.
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:当人们看到我的照片，很多时候他们会说“哦我的上帝！”你们想过这句话意味着什么吗？“哦”说明我引起了你的注意让你脑中有物“我的”说明这些作品联结到你灵魂深处的某样东西它提供了一个通道，让你内心的声音响起来能被人听到。“上帝”呢？上帝是我们都希望走的个人的旅程被启发，让我们感觉天人合一赞颂生命
en:When people see my images, a lot of times they&#39;ll say,&quot;Oh my God.&quot; Have you ever wondered what that meant?The &quot;oh&quot; means it caught your attention,makes you present, makes you mindful.The &quot;my&quot; means it connects with something deepinside your soul.It creates a gateway for your inner voice to rise upand be heard. And &quot;God&quot;?God is that personal journey we all want to be on,to be inspired, to feel like we&#39;re connected to a universethat celebrates life.
时间： 2:23
zh-cn:你们知不知道我们接受的信息中有80%都是来自于视觉？如果把光能和（钢琴）音域作比较裸眼能看到的光谱范围只相当于（钢琴）正中的一个八度音域我们难道不该心存感激，因为我们的大脑能够把从光能中探测到的电脉冲信号转变为我们用来认识世界的图像？我们难道不该心存感激，因为我们的心能够感受这些波动让我们能感受到自然之美的乐趣？（音乐）
en:Did you know that 80 percentof the information we receive comes through our eyes?And if you compare light energy to musical scales,it would only be one octave that the naked eye could see,which is right in the middle?And aren&#39;t we grateful for our brains that can, you know,take this electrical impulse that comes from light energyto create images in order for us to explore our world?And aren&#39;t we grateful that we have heartsthat can feel these vibrationsin order for us to allow ourselves to feel the pleasureand the beauty of nature?(Music)
时间： 3:04
zh-cn:自然之美是天赐礼物能够滋养欣赏和感激（音乐）今天我有一样礼物要与你们分享是我正在做的一个项目，叫做“揭示幸福”它告诉我们孩子和老人的视角中世界是什么样子的
en:Nature&#39;s beauty is a gift that cultivatesappreciation and gratitude.(Music)So I have a gift I want to share with you today,a project I&#39;m working on called Happiness Revealed,and it&#39;ll give us a glimpse into that perspectivefrom the point of view of a child and an elderly manof that world.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:小孩：我看电视的时候那上面只是演一些假装出来的事情当你探索的时候你的想象力就增加了当你的想象力增加了你就会想要更进一步就能看到更多美丽的事物比如一条路，能带你去海边还有其他美丽的东西（音乐）
en:Child: When I watch TV,it&#39;s just some shows that you just — that are pretend,and when you explore, you getmore imagination than you already had,and when you get more imagination,it makes you want to go deeper inso you can get more and see beautifuller things,like the path, if it&#39;s a path, it could lead you to a beach,or something, and it could be beautiful.(Music)
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:老人：你认为这只是人生中另一个平白无奇的日子？不是的，这是被赐予的一天今天是上天赐给你的，是一个礼物这是你手头唯一的礼物唯一的恰当反应是感恩如果你去培养这种反应对这恩赐的特别的日子充满感恩如果你学会这种反应就好像这是你人生的第一天也是最后一天你就能很好地度过这一天
en:Elderly Man: You think this is just another day in your life?It&#39;s not just another day. It&#39;s the one day that is given to youtoday.It&#39;s given to you. It&#39;s a gift.It&#39;s the only gift that you have right now,and the only appropriate responseis gratefulness.If you do nothing else but to cultivate that responseto the great gift that this unique day is,if you learn to respondas if it were the first day in your lifeand the very last day,then you will have spent this day very well.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:以睁开双眼为始对自己目能视物充满惊喜时刻能感受到色彩那不可思议的光芒而带来的纯粹的享受看看天空我们很少看天我们很少能注意到这一刻与下一刻的不同，云彩的来去我们只是关心天气就算是天气，我们也不曾关注天气的各种细微之处我们只是关心天气是好是坏今天，此时此刻，有特别的天气也许这种天气再也不会以同样的方式再现云彩的组合也再不会出现与现在一模一样的睁大你的双眼，看看这些
en:Begin by opening your eyes and be surprisedthat you have eyes you can open,that incredible array of colors that is constantly offered to usfor pure enjoyment.Look at the sky.We so rarely look at the sky.We so rarely note how different it isfrom moment to moment, with clouds coming and going.We just think of the weather,and even with the weather, we don&#39;t think ofall the many nuances of weather.We just think of good weather and bad weather.This day, right now, has unique weather,maybe a kind that will never exactlyin that form come again.That formation of clouds in the sky will never be the sameas it is right now.Open your eyes. Look at that.
时间： 6:54
zh-cn:看看你遇到的人的脸庞每一张脸后面都有一个不平凡的故事一个你无法完全理解的故事这个故事不仅关于他们自己，还关于他们的祖先我们回顾过去但此时此刻你遇到的所有人，所有的生命跨越时间和距离与你相遇了就像生命之水，只要你打开心扉，喝下它（音乐）
en:Look at the faces of people whom you meet.Each one has an incredible story behind their face,a story that you could never fully fathom,not only their own story, but the story of their ancestors.We all go back so far,and in this present moment, on this day,all the people you meet, all that life from generationsand from so many places all over the worldflows together and meets you herelike a life-giving water, if you only open your heart and drink.(Music)
时间： 7:53
zh-cn:打开心扉去接受文明带给我们的不可思议的礼物拨一下开关电灯就亮了打开水龙头，就有热水和冷水还有饮用水这是世界上成千上万的人所无法体验的礼物
en:Open your heart to the incredible gifts that civilizationgives to us.You flip a switch and there is electric light.You turn a faucet and there is warm water and cold water,and drinkable water.It&#39;s a gift that millions and millions in the worldwill never experience.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:这只是无数礼物中的几件我们能够打开心扉对待的我祝愿你们能打开心扉让这些福祉荡漾在你身心你们今天遇到的每个人都能因为蒙荫因你的双眸你的微笑你的触摸以及你的出现让这份感激充满你们身边今天将会是真正美好的一天（音乐）
en:So these are just a few of an enormous number of giftsto which we can open your heart.And so I wish you that you will open your heartto all these blessings, and let them flow through you,that everyone whom you will meet on this daywill be blessed by you,just by your eyes,by your smile,by your touch,just by your presence.Let the gratefulness overflowinto blessing all around you,and then it will really be a good day. (Music)
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:27
zh-cn:Louie Schwartzberg: 谢谢你们非常感谢（掌声）
en:Louie Schwartzberg: Thank you.Thank you very much. (Applause)
