时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我在Limpopo长大，在Limpopo的边境，靠近Mpumalanga的地方，是一个叫做Motetema的小镇。这里的水电供应很天气一样很不稳定，我就是在这种艰苦的条件下长大的。17岁那年的冬天，我和几个朋友正轻松地晒着太阳，做日光浴。Limpopo的冬天阳光宜人。我们正晒着太阳的时候，我身旁最好的朋友对我说，”伙计，为什么没有人发明一种东西，能直接涂在身上，这样就不用洗澡了？“我坐在那儿，好像说，”伙计，要有我第一个买，是吧？”
en:So I grew up in Limpopo, on the border of Limpopoand Mpumalanga, a little town called Motetema.Water and electricity supply are as unpredictableas the weather, and growing up in these tough situations,at the age of 17, I was relaxing with a couple of friendsof mine in winter, and we were sunbathing.The Limpopo sun gets really hot in winter.So as we were sunbathing, my best friend next to me says,&quot;Man, why doesn&#39;t somebody invent something that you canjust put on your skin and then you don&#39;t have to bathe?&quot;And I sat, and I was like, &quot;Man, I would buy that, eh?&quot;
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:于是，我回了家，做了一点小小的研究，我发现了一些令人震惊的数据。当今世界有超过25亿人没有真正意义上的饮水和卫生条件。其中4.5亿人在非洲，这当中又有500万人在南非。这种环境会滋生各种疾病，其中最严重的疾病叫做颗粒性结膜炎（砂眼）。砂眼是灰尘进入眼睛造成的一种感染。 多次感染砂眼会导致永久性失明。这种疾病每年都使800万人终生失明。而最令人吃惊的是，要想不感染砂眼，需要做的仅仅是洗脸，不用治疗，不用吃药，也不用打针。
en:So I went home, and I did a little research,and I found some very shocking statistics.Over 2.5 billion people in the world todaydo not have proper access to water and sanitation.Four hundred and fifty million of them are in Africa,and five million of them are in South Africa.Various diseases thrive in this environment,the most drastic of which is called trachoma.Trachoma is an infection of the eye due to dirtgetting into your eye. Multiple infections of trachomacan leave you permanently blind.The disease leaves eight million people permanently blindeach and every year. The shocking part about itis that to avoid being infected with trachoma,all you have to do is wash your face:no medicine, no pills, no injections.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:看过这些令人震惊的数据之后，我心里说，“好，即使不是为了自己，不是因为我不爱洗澡，我也要做点什么来挽救世界。”（笑声）于是我利用我的神器——诺基亚6234手机开始研究。我没有手提电脑，也不容易上网，除非去一个一小时20兰特的网吧。我在维基百科和谷歌上研究，研究乳液、乳霜，研究它们的成分、熔点和毒性，我运用高中学的科学在一张纸上写下了一个小小的配方，看起来很像肯德基的辣酱配方。
en:So after seeing these shocking statistics, I thought to myself,&quot;Okay, even if I&#39;m not just doing it for myselfand the fact that I don&#39;t want to bathe, I at least needto do it to try to save the world.&quot; (Laughter)So with my trusty little steed, my Nokia 6234 cell phone —I didn&#39;t have a laptop, I didn&#39;t have Internet much,except for the 20-rand-an-hour Internet cafe —I did research on Wikipedia, on Google, about lotions,creams, the compositions, the melting points, the toxicities —I did high school science —and I wrote down a little formula on a piece of paper,and it looked like the KFC special spice, you know?
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:我当时觉得，好吧，我们已经有配方了，现在要做的就是把它变成现实。很快，四年过去了，我在手机上写了40页的商业计划书，在手机上申请了专利，我成为了全国最年轻的专利持有人，我的专利就是⋯⋯（“再也不用洗澡了！”）这事儿不能说得太细。（笑声）我发明了DryBath，世界上首款洗澡替代乳液。你只需要把乳液涂到皮肤上，就不用洗澡了。（笑声）
en:So I was like, okay, so we&#39;ve got the formula ready.Now we need to get this thing into practice.Fast forward four years later, after having writtena 40-page business plan on the cell phone,having written my patent on the cell phone,I&#39;m the youngest patent-holder in the country,and — (&quot;No more bathing!&quot;) —I can&#39;t say any more than that. (Laughter)I had invented DryBath, the world&#39;s firstbath-substituting lotion.You literally put it on your skin, and you don&#39;t have to bathe.(Laughter)
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:我在高中利用有限的资源努力研究配方，之后我进了大学，遇见了一些人，终于把它变成了现实。我们推出了一种全功能产品，可以投放市场，现在市场上其实也能买到。我们在将DryBath商业化、投放市场方面也有一些教训。其中之一就是我们了解到贫穷社区的人不会大量购买商品，而是用多少买多少。Alex的人从来不买整盒香烟，都是一天买一根，尽管这样其实更贵。于是我们把DryBath装在这种新型小袋中。只要撕开，把乳液挤出来就可以使用。最酷的是，一小袋乳液就能使人免洗一次5兰特的澡。在创建这种模式之后，我们在产品应用方面也学到了很多。我们发现即使是郊区富裕家庭的小孩也很想要DryBath，（笑声）至少每周一次。不管怎样，我们发现如果他们少洗一次澡，平均能省下8000万升水，农村的孩子们每天还能省下两小时，把这两小时用来上学，用来做功课，或者就用来做小孩该做的事情。
en:So after having tried to make it work in high schoolwith the limited resources I had, I went to university,met a few people, got it into practice,and we have a fully functioning product that&#39;s readyto go to the market. It&#39;s actually available on the market.So we learned a few lessons in commercializingand making DryBath available.One of the things we learned was that poor communitiesdon&#39;t buy products in bulk.They buy products on demand. A person in Alexdoesn&#39;t buy a box of cigarettes. They buy one cigaretteeach day, even though it&#39;s more expensive.So we packaged DryBath in these innovative little sachets.You just snap them in half, and you squeeze it out.And the cool part is, one sachet substitutes one bathfor five rand.After creating that model, we also learned a lotin terms of implementing the product.We realized that even rich kids from the suburbsreally want DryBath. (Laughter)At least once a week.Anyway, we realized that we could save 80 million litersof water on average each time they skipped a bath,and also we would save two hours a day for kidswho are in rural areas, two hours more for school,two hours more for homework,two hours more to just be a kid.
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:看到这一产品对全球的影响之后，我们进一步明确了我们的主要价值主张，那就是清洁与方便。DryBat对富人来说意味着方便，对穷人来说却是救命稻草。
en:After seeing that global impact, we narrowed it downto our key value proposition,which was cleanliness and convenience.DryBath is a rich man&#39;s convenienceand a poor man&#39;s lifesaver.
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:目前这种产品已经投产，现在马上就能出售给跨国公司，由这家公司投放到零售市场。我要问在座各位一个问题：在Limpopo的石子路上，靠着每礼拜50兰特的零花钱，我都能想出让世界不用洗澡的办法。人类还能阻止你么？（掌声）还没说完，没说完！我在整个过程中还有另外一大收获。去年谷歌把我评为世界上最聪明的年轻人之一，我现在也是全世界最优秀的学生企业家，是第一个获得这项荣誉的非洲人。但最雷人的是，这一切居然都是因为我不爱洗澡。谢谢。（掌声）
en:Having put the product into practice, we are actually nowon the verge of selling the productonto a multinational to take it to the retail market,and one question I have for the audience today is,on the gravel roads of Limpopo,with an allowance of 50 rand a week,I came up with a way for the world not to bathe.What&#39;s stopping you? (Applause)I&#39;m not done yet. I&#39;m not done yet.And another key thing that I learned a lotthroughout this whole process,last year Google named me as one of the brightest young minds in the world.I&#39;m also currently the best student entrepreneurin the world, the first African to get that accolade,and one thing that really puzzles me is, I did all of thisjust because I didn&#39;t want to bathe. Thank you.(Applause.)
