时间： 0:11
zh-cn:帕特·米切尔：这个胸针的背后故事是什么？
en:Pat Mitchell: What is the story of this pin?
时间： 0:13
zh-cn:马德琳·奥尔布赖：这是指要打破天花板的潜规则。
en:Madeleine Albright: This is &quot;Breaking the Glass Ceiling.&quot;
时间： 0:15
zh-cn:PM：哦。我想说，这是为TEDWomen大会，你精心挑选的胸针。
en:PM: Oh.That was well chosen, I would say, for TEDWomen.
时间： 0:21
zh-cn:MA：早上起床的大多数时间我都用来思考这一天会发生什么如果不提到有关萨达姆·侯赛因的胸针故事，这胸针故事都不值得一提。我来告诉你所发生的事。我做为美国驻联合国大使。那是在海湾战争之后。我奉命去履行大使职责。停战已经转变为一系列制裁决议，我的指示就是不断地说有关萨达姆·侯赛因那些可怕的事情这是他应得的—因为他侵略了另一个国家。所以突然间，在巴格达的报纸上有首诗把我比作许多事物但其中写到“一条无与伦比的蛇精”。所以我就有了一个蛇形的胸针。当我们谈及伊拉克时，我就带着它。（笑声）当我出来与媒体见面，他们的焦点问题是“你为什么要戴蛇形胸针？”我说，“因为萨达姆·侯赛因把我比作一条无与伦比的蛇精。”之后我想想。好吧这也很有趣。之后我去买了很多胸针事实上，这些胸针会映射我当天的所思所行。这一切就是胸针开始的来龙去脉。
en:MA: Most of the time I spend when I get up in the morningis trying to figure out what is going to happen.And none of this pin stuff would have happenedif it hadn&#39;t been for Saddam Hussein.I&#39;ll tell you what happened.I went to the United Nations as an ambassador,and it was after the Gulf War,and I was an instructed ambassador.And the cease-fire had been translatedinto a series of sanctions resolutions,and my instructionswere to say perfectly terrible things about Saddam Hussein constantly,which he deserved — he had invaded another country.And so all of a sudden, a poem appeared in the papers in Baghdadcomparing me to many things,but among them an &quot;unparalleled serpent.&quot;And so I happened to have a snake pin.So I wore it when we talked about Iraq.(Laughter)And when I went out to meet the press,they zeroed in, said, &quot;Why are you wearing that snake pin?&quot;I said, &quot;Because Saddam Hussein compared me to an unparalleled serpent.&quot;And then I thought, well this is fun.So I went out and I bought a lot of pinsthat would, in fact, reflectwhat I thought we were going to do on any given day.So that&#39;s how it all started.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:PM：那现在你收集了多少胸针了呢？
en:PM: So how large is the collection?
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:MA：非常多目前收藏品在各地展示。此刻它在印第安纳波利斯，但它曾在史密斯森协会(联合国博物馆)。还有一本书叫“解读我的胸针。”
en:MA: Pretty big.It&#39;s now traveling.At the moment it&#39;s in Indianapolis,but it was at the Smithsonian.And it goes with a book that says, &quot;Read My Pins.&quot;
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:PM：这真是一个棒极了的主意。我记得你做为第一位女性美国国务卿，常常有很多舆论关注你的着装，你的形象这种事也发生在许多女性身上，尤其是当她们是该职位上第一位女性时。所以你对这些所有这些事有何感想？
en:PM: So is this a good idea.I remember when you were the first womanas Secretary of State,and there was a lot of conversation alwaysabout what you were wearing,how you looked —the thing that happens to a lot of women,especially if they&#39;re the first in a position.So how do you feel about that — the whole —
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:MA：真的，这的确特令人厌烦因为从来没人去描述一位男性国务卿的着装。但是人们特关注我的着装。有趣的是在我去纽约胜任联合国大使前，我和我的前任大使珍妮·柯克帕特里克谈过她说，“你得放弃你的职业装。去购物，打扮看上去像个外交官。”所以这让我有很多机会去购物。但还是有各种各样的问题涉及到，我戴什么帽子？我的裙子有多短？一件事如果你记得康多莉扎·赖斯参加宴会，她穿了靴子，她为此受到舆论批评。没有哪个男性会为此受到指责。但对女性就这么难以容忍。
en:MA: Well, it&#39;s pretty irritating actuallybecause nobody ever describes what a man is wearing.But people did pay attention to what clothes I had.What was interesting was that,before I went up to New York as U.N. ambassador,I talked to Jeane Kirkpatrick, who&#39;d been ambassador before me,and she said, &quot;You&#39;ve got to get rid of your professor clothes.Go out and look like a diplomat.&quot;So that did give me a lot of opportunities to go shopping.But still, there were all kinds of questionsabout — &quot;did you wear a hat?&quot; &quot;How short was your skirt?&quot;And one of the things —if you remember Condoleezza Rice was at some event and she wore boots,and she got criticized over that.And no guy ever gets criticized. But that&#39;s the least of it.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:PM：对我们所有人，女性和男性而言，我们要找到定位我们自身的方法，为了世界上的改变和重塑未来尽我们的本职。你是怎么处理这种平衡关系的既要成为坚强的外交官又要代表我们国家向全世界发出强有力的声音呢？你又是怎么看待你自己作为一个母亲，一个祖母，“抚育”的这种母性角色呢?你是怎么做到的？
en:PM: It is, for all of us, men and women,finding our ways of defining our roles,and doing them in ways that make a difference in the worldand shape the future.How did you handle that balancebetween being the tough diplomaticand strong voice of this countryto the rest of the worldand also how you felt about yourselfas a mother, a grandmother, nurturing ...and so how did you handle that?
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:MA：好吧有趣的事是我被问到当我被任命为第一位美国女性国务卿之后没过几分钟时，我做为第一位美国女性国务卿感觉咋样？我说到，“我作为女人有60年了，但我作为国务卿仅有几分钟而已。”所以它就是这么演变来的。（笑声）但基本上我喜欢作为一个女人。随后所发生的是—我认为可能在观众中的一些人会认同这个—我首次出席在联合国的第一次会议。当这会议完全开始时，因为联合国是一个非常男性化的组织。我坐在那儿—共有联合国安全理事会的15个成员14个男性坐在那儿盯着我，我想—好吧你知道我们一般都感觉怎么样。你想感受一下房间的气氛，别人喜欢我吗，我是否要说些聪明话？突然间我想到：嘿等一下，我正坐在代表“美国”的标志后。假如我今天没发言那么美国的声音就不会被听到。这是第一次我感觉到我必须得以突破我自己往常的惯性，勉强被动的女性模式并决定我得代言我的祖国。随后在不同时期这样的事又接踵而至，但我的确认为在许多方面作为女性占有很多优势。我们在人际关系上做得相当好，然后我们的能力在必要时会得到更明显的发挥。但我得告诉大家，我最小的孙女，她去年7岁时，对她妈，我女儿说，“祖母Maddie玛迪作为国务卿有什么大不了的？国务卿只可能是女孩啊。（现任希拉里和前任赖斯都是女性）“
en:MA: Well the interesting part was I was askedwhat it was like to be the first woman Secretary of Statea few minutes after I&#39;d been named.And I said, &quot;Well I&#39;ve been a woman for 60 years,but I&#39;ve only been Secretary of State for a few minutes.&quot;So it evolved.(Laughter)But basically I love being a woman.And so what happened —and I think there will probably be some people in the audiencethat will identify with this —I went to my first meeting, first at the U.N.,and that&#39;s when this all started,because that is a very male organization.And I&#39;m sitting there — there are 15 members of the Security Council —so 14 men sat there staring at me,and I thought — well you know how we all are.You want to get the feeling of the room,and &quot;do people like me?&quot;and &quot;will I really say something intelligent?&quot;And all of a sudden I thought, &quot;Well, wait a minute.I am sitting behind a sign that says &#39;The United States,&#39;and if I don&#39;t speak todaythen the voice of the United States will not be heard,&quot;and it was the first time that I had that feelingthat I had to step out of myselfin my normal, reluctant female modeand decide that I had to speak on behalf of our country.And so that happened more at various times,but I really think that there was a great advantage in many waysto being a woman.I think we are a lot betterat personal relationships,and then have the capability obviouslyof telling it like it is when it&#39;s necessary.But I have to tell you, I have my youngest granddaughter,when she turned seven last year,said to her mother, my daughter,&quot;So what&#39;s the big deal about Grandma Maddie being Secretary of State?Only girls are Secretary of State.&quot;
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:PM：从她出生到现在确实如此—（MA：这事实也如此。）
en:PM: Because in her lifetime — MA: That would be so.
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:PM：这真是一个巨大的改变现在你在满世界跑，你经常做些什么，你如何评价这有关妇女和女孩参与全球议程的故事呢？我们所处的现状呢？
en:PM: What a change that is.As you travel now all over the world,which you do frequently,how do you assessthis global narrative around the story of women and girls?Where are we?
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:MA：我们正在慢慢地改变，但显然在一些国家所有的事都没有改变。因此,这意味我们得记住虽然我们中许多人有绝好的机会——帕特，你已经是你这领域里的真正领导人但是还有许多女性她们不能为她们自己设身处地地去担心和关怀并明白女性得互助。所以我感到—我从国家安全问题上看到这个情况那时我是国务卿，我决定女性的问题是美国外交政策的中心环节，不仅仅因为我是个追求男女平等的女权主义者，更因为我相信社会会更美好当女性被赋予政治上和经济上同等的权利时，这些价值传递开来，健康状况也会好起来，教育也会改善，才会有更富强的繁荣经济。所以我认为这值得我们大家去努力—我们这些人生活在不同的国家在那里我们会有经济和政治发言权我们必须帮助其它女性获得同样权利。我自己真的投身致力于在联合国做大使和随后做国务卿的工作中。
en:MA: I think we&#39;re slowly changing,but obviously there are whole pocketsin countries where nothing is different.And therefore it means that we have to rememberthat, while many of us have had huge opportunities —and Pat, you have been a real leader in your field —is that there are a lot of womenthat are not capableof worrying and taking care of themselvesand understanding that women have to help other women.And so what I have felt —and I have looked at thisfrom a national security issue —when I was Secretary of State, I decidedthat women&#39;s issues had to be central to American foreign policy,not just because I&#39;m a feminist,but because I believe that societies are better offwhen women are politically and economically empowered,that values are passed down,the health situation is better,education is better,there is greater economic prosperity.So I think that it behooves us —those of us that live in various countrieswhere we do have economic and political voice —that we need to help other women.And I really dedicated myself to that,both at the U.N. and then as Secretary of State.
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:PM：你有没有感到种推力使得女性成为外交政策的关键参与者？
en:PM: And did you get pushbackfrom making that a central tenant of foreign policy?
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:MA：对一些人，我想他们认为这是一个“软性”议题。我决定底线是女性的议题实际上是最困难的议题，因为这些议题在许多方面涉及到生与死—而且，就像之前我说的，因为这真的是我们思考这些事的中心。比如，当我在职时那时有些战争，许多战争中，女性都是主要的受害者。比如，我刚任职时，在巴尔干地区有些战争。在波斯尼亚的女性遭到强奸。然后我们试着建立起一个战犯法庭来特别解决这类问题。顺便说一下，我刚走马上任驻联合国工作时，在我那时联合国有183个国家。目前有192个国家。但那时也是第一次我不用亲自下厨做午饭。我对我的助手说，“请邀请其他女性常驻代表来赴宴。”我想当我到我的房间时在那儿会有很多女性。我到那儿后，183个国家里，只有6位其他女性代表。派驻女性代表的国家分别是加拿大，哈萨克斯坦，菲律宾，特立尼达多巴哥，牙买加，列支敦士登和我自己代表的美国。所以作为美国代表，我决定组织一个代表会议。（笑声）我们把它建立起来了，我们自称为G7会议。
en:MA: From some people.I think that they thought that it was a soft issue.The bottom line that I decidedwas actually women&#39;s issues are the hardest issues,because they are the ones that have to do with life and deathin so many aspects,and because, as I said,it is really central to the way that we think about things.Now for instance,some of the wars that took placewhen I was in office,a lot of them, the women were the main victims of it.For instance, when I started,there were wars in the Balkans.The women in Bosnia were being raped.We then managed to set up a war crimes tribunalto deal specifically with those kinds of issues.And by the way, one of the things that I did at that stagewas, I had just arrived at the U.N.,and when I was there, there were 183 countries in the U.N.Now there are 192.But it was one of the first times that I didn&#39;t have to cook lunch myself.So I said to my assistant,&quot;Invite the other women permanent representatives.&quot;And I thought when I&#39;d get to my apartmentthat there&#39;d be a lot of women there.I get there, and there are six other women, out of 183.So the countries that had women representativeswere Canada, Kazakhstan, Philippines,Trinidad Tobago, Jamaica,Lichtenstein and me.So being an American, I decided to set up a caucus.(Laughter)And so we set it up,and we called ourselves the G7.
时间： 7:56
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:PM：那是指7位女孩？（MA：是的。女孩7。）
en:PM: Is that &quot;Girl 7?&quot; MA: Girl 7.
时间： 8:00
zh-cn:MA：我们游说代言女性权益。我们决定在这场战犯法庭上安排2位女性法官。然后接下来发生的是她们能够宣布强奸是一种战争武器，而且它是违背人性的。
en:And we lobbiedon behalf of women&#39;s issues.So we managed to get two women judgeson this war crimes tribunal.And then what happenedwas that they were able to declare that rape was a weapon of war,that it was against humanity.
时间： 8:16
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 8:21
zh-cn:PM：所以当你环视全球各地你看到，在许多情况下—特别在西方世界—女性正在担当更多领导者的地位，甚至其他地方一些障碍正在被推翻，但还是会有很多暴力，还有许多问题，尽管如此，我们还是会听到更多的女性在谈判桌上讲话。你曾经就在那样的谈判桌代言那曾经没女性代言，或许正是你—一个声音，或许一个或者另外两个人代言。你相信，你能否告诉我们为什么，这会有一个巨大转变在诸如此类事件上像暴力和平，冲突和在一个可持续基础上的决议？
en:PM: So when you look around the worldand you see that, in many cases —certainly in the Western world —women are evolving into more leadership positions,and even other placessome barriers are being brought down,but there&#39;s still so much violence,still so many problems,and yet we hear there are more womenat the negotiating tables.Now you were at those negotiating tableswhen they weren&#39;t, when there was maybe you —one voice, maybe one or two others.Do you believe, and can you tell us why,there is going to be a significant shiftin things like violenceand peace and conflict and resolutionon a sustainable basis?
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:MA：好吧，我的确认为，当更多女性参与时，谈话的论调会改变，谈话的目标也随之改变。但这并不意味全世界会好很多如果世界全是由女性来管理。如果你这样想，你已经忘记了高中。（笑声）但底线是会有出路，那就是更多女性在谈判桌上，这是一种尝试得以增进一些了解。例如，当我在布隆迪所做的事，我们团结了图西族和胡图族女性一起来谈论一些问题这些问题曾经演变为卢旺达大屠杀。所以我认为女性的能力是把她们自己我们最好是说要设身处地地替别人着想带有更多同情心。这在互助方面上会起作用如果其他女性和你共处时。
en:MA: Well I do think, when there are more women,that the tone of the conversation changes,and also the goals of the conversation change.But it doesn&#39;t mean that the whole worldwould be a lot betterif it were totally run by women.If you think that, you&#39;ve forgotten high school.(Laughter)But the bottom lineis that there is a way,when there are more women at the table,that there&#39;s an attemptto develop some understanding.So for instance, what I did when I went to Burundi,we&#39;d got Tutsi and Hutu women togetherto talk about some of the problemsthat had taken place in Rwanda.And so I think the capability of womento put themselves —I think we&#39;re better about putting ourselves into the other guy&#39;s shoesand having more empathy.I think it helps in terms of the supportif there are other women in the room.
时间：10:02
zh-cn:当我是国务卿时，那时仅有其他13位女性外交部长。所以当我们中一员出面时，这是很好的。例如，现在芬兰的总统塔里娅·哈洛宁，但她那时是芬兰的外交部长在某一阶段，也是欧洲联盟负责人。这真的很了不起。因为我想你会理解其中的一些事。我们曾去了一个会议，在我们代表团中，当我要说，“好吧，我感觉我们应该关于此事做点事儿，”他们男性代表会说，“你指什么，你感觉到？”随后塔里娅坐到我桌子对面。突然间我们都谈论军备控制，她说到，“好吧，我感觉我们应该做这件事。”我的男性同事突然间懂了似的。但我认为这的确帮助一些至关重要的女性参与到一系列外交政策立场的谈判中去。我想到的其他很重要的事是：很多国家安全政策不仅是关于外交政策，更关乎于预算，军事预算，国家债务该怎样解决。所以如果有女性参与外交政策制定的不同环节中，她们能互相支持并制定在她们自己国家的预算决定。
en:When I was Secretary of State,there were only 13 other women foreign ministers.And so it was nice when one of them would show up.For instance, she is now the president of Finland,but Tarja Halonen was the foreign minister of Finlandand, at a certain stage, head of the European Union.And it was really terrific.Because one of the things I think you&#39;ll understand.We went to a meeting,and the men in my delegation,when I would say, &quot;Well I feel we should do something about this,&quot;and they&#39;d say, &quot;What do you mean, you feel?&quot;And so then Tarja was sitting across the table from me.And all of a sudden we were talking about arms control,and she said, &quot;Well I feel we should do this.&quot;And my male colleagues kind of got it all of a sudden.But I think it really does helpto have a critical mass of womenin a series of foreign policy positions.The other thing that I think is really important:A lot of national security policyisn&#39;t just about foreign policy,but it&#39;s about budgets, military budgets,and how the debts of countries work out.So if you have womenin a variety of foreign policy posts,they can support each otherwhen there are budget decisions being made in their own countries.
时间：11:15
zh-cn:PM：那么我们该怎样在世界上寻求这种平衡呢？让更多女性的声音响彻在谈判桌上？更多男性会认为这种男女平衡是最好的吗？
en:PM: So how do we getthis balance we&#39;re looking for, then, in the world?More women&#39;s voices at the table?More men who believethat the balance is best?
时间：11:26
zh-cn:MA：好吧我认为一件事是：我是一个叫做全国民主协会组织的委员会主席它致力于协助女性候选人。我认为我们需要帮助其他国家培训女性胜任政务职位，帮她们搞清楚事实上她们如何能够发挥她们政治谈判的声音。我认为我们也需要支持当我们建立企业时得确保女性得互相协助。现在我想说的是我非常强烈地感受于此，因为我上了一把年纪了当我刚开始我职业生涯时，信不信由你，有些其他女性指责我：“你为什么要踩过界线呢？”或者“你的孩子不受罪吗缘于你常常不在家？”我认为我们往往会让对方感到内疚。事实上，我认为“内疚”是每一位女性的中间名。所以我认为所需发生的就是我们需要互相帮助。我的座右铭是地狱里有个专门的地方留给不互相帮助的女性
en:MA: Well I think one of the things —I&#39;m chairman of the board of an organizationcalled the National Democratic Institutethat works to support women candidates.I think that we needto help in other countriesto train womento be in political office,to figure out how they can in factdevelop political voices.I think we also need to be supportivewhen businesses are being createdand just make sure that women help each other.Now I have a sayingthat I feel very strongly about,because I am of a certain agewhere, when I started in my career,believe it or not, there were other women who criticized me:&quot;Why aren&#39;t you in the carpool line?&quot;or &quot;Aren&#39;t your children sufferingbecause you&#39;re not there all the time?&quot;And I think we have a tendency to make each other feel guilty.In fact, I think &quot;guilt&quot; is every woman&#39;s middle name.And so I think what needs to happenis we need to help each other.And my motto is that there&#39;s a special place in hellfor women who don&#39;t help each other.
时间：12:30
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：12:38
zh-cn:PM：好的，国务卿奥尔布赖特，我猜你会通达天堂。谢谢你今天加入我们的会谈。
en:PM: Well Secretary Albright, I guess you&#39;ll be going to heaven.Thank you for joining us today.
时间：12:44
zh-cn:MA：谢谢大家。谢谢帕特。
en:MA: Thank you all. Thanks Pat.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
