时间： 0:12
zh-cn:今天，我要向大家介绍一些人，他们一直在各自的街区里工作。第一位就在芝加哥。布兰达·帕尔姆-法尔伯的工作是帮助刑满释放人员重返社会以免他们重蹈覆辙。目前，若有一人入狱，那么纳税人每年就要支付六万美元。三分之二的刑满释放人员最后又回到了监狱。我觉得很有意思，我们为“启蒙教育”等早期教育每花一美元，在将来，就能在送人入狱这些事情上节省十七美元。大家想想－那六万美元把一个人送到哈佛大学读书都绰绰有余了。
en:So today, I&#39;m going to tell you about some peoplewho didn&#39;t move out of their neighborhoods.The first one is happening right here in Chicago.Brenda Palms-Farber was hiredto help ex-convicts reenter societyand keep them from going back into prison.Currently, taxpayers spendabout 60,000 dollars per yearsending a person to jail.We know that two-thirds of them are going to go back.I find it interesting that, for every one dollarwe spend, however, on early childhood education,like Head Start,we save 17 dollarson stuff like incarceration in the future.Or — think about it — that 60,000 dollarsis more than what it coststo send one person to Harvard as well.
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:但布兰达并没有拘泥于这些限制，她审视了眼前的挑战想出了一个不那么兴师动众的解决方法：开办一庄生意，用蜂蜜的提炼物来生产护肤品。也许对于你们一些人来说这再自然不过了；但是我不这么看。扶植真正有无限潜力的社会创新，这是起步阶段。她聘请那些别人不愿聘用的人来照顾蜜蜂，收割蜂蜜加工产品，并自己做市场推广，最后把成品放在全食超市销售。她把工作与培训结合在一起，教授员工一些必要的生活技能，教他们如何控制愤怒情绪，如何进行团队合作，如何向后来的员工传授自己的经验，告诉他们自己所学到的经验教训以及他们对学习的热情。经过她聘用的这些人员中仅有不到百分之四的人再次入狱。这些年轻人通过养殖蜜蜂不仅得到了工作培训，学会了生存技能，还成为了有作为的好公民。这真是一个美好的开始。
en:But Brenda, not being phased by stuff like that,took a look at her challengeand came upwith a not-so-obvious solution:create a businessthat produces skin care products from honey.Okay, it might be obvious to some of you; it wasn&#39;t to me.It&#39;s the basis of growing a form of social innovationthat has real potential.She hired seemingly unemployable men and womento care for the bees, harvest the honeyand make value-added productsthat they marketed themselves,and that were later sold at Whole Foods.She combined employment experience and trainingwith life skills they needed,like anger-management and teamwork,and also how to talk to future employersabout how their experiencesactually demonstrated the lessons that they had learnedand their eagerness to learn more.Less than four percentof the folks that went through her programactually go back to jail.So these young men and women learned job-readinessand life skills through bee keepingand became productive citizens in the process.Talk about a sweet beginning.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:现在我要带你们到洛杉矶。很多人都知道洛杉矶有很多亟待解决的问题。但是我要讲的是洛杉矶的用水问题。该市经常缺水，而一旦下雨，过多的雨水又成了问题。目前，加利福尼亚州百分之二十的能源消耗主要被用于向南加州调水的工程。他们花了大把大把的金钱将雨水疏导至大海，一旦下雨，这里就会发大水。安迪·利普基斯的工作就是帮助洛杉矶削减水利工程以及城市热岛效应相关的基础建设开支－把人，树木和科技联系起来进而创造更适合居住的城市。那些绿色的东西能够自动吸收大量雨水，并且帮助城市降温。我们应该这样想：你真正需要的是空调，还是一个凉爽的房间？不管使用那种方法，只要能够达到预期的效果就行了。
en:Now, I&#39;m going to take you to Los Angeles,and lots of people knowthat L.A. has its issues.But I&#39;m going to talk about L.A.&#39;s water issues right now.They have not enough water on most daysand too much to handle when it rains.Currently, 20 percentof California&#39;s energy consumptionis used to pump waterinto mostly Southern California.Their spending loads, loads,to channel that rainwater out into the oceanwhen it rains and floods as well.Now Andy Lipkis is working to helpL.A. cut infrastructure costsassociated with water management and urban heat island —linking trees, people and technologyto create a more livable city.All that green stuff actually naturally absorbs storm water,also helps cool our cities.Because, come to think about it,do you really want air-conditioning,or is it a cooler room that you want?How you get it shouldn&#39;t make that much of a difference.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:就在几年前，洛杉矶决定投入二十五亿美元整修全市的学校。安迪和他的团队得知政府将把其中两亿美元用于给学校四周的路面铺上沥青。通过展示一个非常经济实惠的案例，他们说服洛杉矶政府改变计划，将沥青换成绿树和其它绿化带，这样学校在绿化建设方面节省更多人力物力。最后，铺两千万平方英尺沥青路的计划被取消了，同时，使用空调所需的电力消耗降低了，绿化带需要人照顾，这样，许多人找到了工作，成本就这样被降低了，同时，师生们得到了更健康洁净的生活环境。
en:So a few years ago,L.A. Countydecided that they needed to spend 2.5 billion dollarsto repair the city schools.And Andy and his team discoveredthat they were going to spend 200 million of those dollarson asphalt to surround the schools themselves.And by presenting a really strong economic case,they convinced the L.A. governmentthat replacing that asphaltwith trees and other greenery,that the schools themselves would save the system more on energythan they spend on horticultural infrastructure.So ultimately, 20 million square feet of asphaltwas replaced or avoided,and electrical consumption for air-conditioning went down,while employmentfor people to maintain those grounds went up,resulting in a net-savings to the system,but also healthier students and schools system employees as well.
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:这是朱蒂·邦德斯。一个煤炭工的女儿。她家庭的八代人都住在西弗吉尼亚州一个叫做怀茨威尔的小镇上。如果有谁会以这个小镇光辉的煤炭开采史为荣，以小镇为荣，那非朱蒂莫数了。然而，现在的煤炭开采对比过去她的父亲以及祖父当年在深井里几千人同时作业的开采方式，大不相同。现在只要二十几个人就能在几个月内把一座山开采一空，而开采出的煤炭只够使用几年。这种开采技术叫做山顶煤炭开采法。它能使一座山在短短数月里从这样变成那样。想像一下周围的空气质量－到处弥漫着易爆物和煤炭残渣。我们去到那里的时候，同行的一些人莫名其妙地开始咳嗽我们只在那里停留了几个小时－不仅是矿工，所有人都有同样症状。
en:Now Judy Bondsis a coal miner&#39;s daughter.Her family has eight generationsin a town called Whitesville, West Virginia.And if anyone should be clingingto the former glory of the coal mining history,and of the town,it should be Judy.But the way coal is mined right now is differentfrom the deep mines that her fatherand her father&#39;s father would go down intoand that employed essentially thousands and thousands of people.Now, two dozen mencan tear down a mountain in several months,and only for about a few years&#39; worth of coal.That kind of technology is called &quot;mountaintop removal.&quot;It can make a mountain go from this to thisin a few short months.Just imagine that the air surrounding these places —it&#39;s filled with the residue of explosives and coal.When we visited, it gave some of the people we were withthis strange little coughafter being only there for just a few hours or so —not just miners, but everybody.
时间： 4:39
zh-cn:朱蒂眼睁睁看着家园被破坏，水体被污染。煤矿公司一旦把山挖空就一走了之，使越来越多矿工下岗。然而，她还看到了一座完整山体上风能的潜力比另一座海拔相对低了两千英尺的山体要多出许多。用三年时间来开采污染环境的能源，相比开发能够持续几百年的清洁能源，究竟哪个更合算呢？前者会使许多人丢了工作，而后者却有潜力发展专业技能，提高技术效率，根据当地情况最大程度地开发和利用风力资源。她计算了初始成本以及回报，结果表明这对地方，国家，乃至全球经济都会带来更高的净收益。相比开采山顶煤矿，风能可以带来长期回报，而且这种风能源回报甚至是永久的。开采山顶煤矿给当地居民的回报很小，并且还让他们吃了不少苦头。原本洁净的水变成了臭水。大多数人没有工作，由此，这里的失业人群与大城市里失业的人们面临着同样的社会问题－吸毒，酗酒家庭暴力，未成年少女怀孕以及糟糕的健康状况。
en:And Judy saw her landscape being destroyedand her water poisoned.And the coal companies just move onafter the mountain was emptied,leaving even more unemployment in their wake.But she also saw the difference in potential wind energyon an intact mountain,and one that was reduced in elevationby over 2,000 feet.Three years of dirty energy with not many jobs,or centuries of clean energywith the potential for developing expertise and improvements in efficiencybased on technical skills,and developing local knowledgeabout how to get the most out of that region&#39;s wind.She calculated the up-front costand the payback over time,and it&#39;s a net-plus on so many levelsfor the local, national and global economy.It&#39;s a longer payback than mountaintop removal,but the wind energy actually pays back forever.Now mountaintop removal pays very little money to the locals,and it gives them a lot of misery.The water is turned into goo.Most people are still unemployed,leading to most of the same kinds of social problemsthat unemployed people in inner cities also experience —drug and alcohol abuse,domestic abuse, teen pregnancy and poor heath, as well.
时间： 5:46
zh-cn:现在朱蒂和我－我可以这么说－我们志同道合。我们关系铁得很。你看，她的家乡是西弗吉尼亚州的怀茨威尔。他们不是－他们可没在跟时尚嘻哈达人争地盘，压跟就没有。但是，在她送我的T恤衫背面，写着：“拯救濒临灭绝的乡巴佬”。就这样宅女和乡巴佬走到了一起，非常明确各自的使命。然而就在几个月前，朱蒂被诊断患有晚期肺癌。真的。而且已经蔓延到了她的骨头和大脑。这真是太荒唐了，她竭尽全力帮助人们防止肺癌，而自己却得了肺癌。但是她的“煤河山风力发电项目”仍将继续。也许，她等不到项目建成的那一天了。她并没有仅仅留下一纸宣言，而是她正详细制定实施项目的具体计划。我的这位姐妹正在忙这件事情。我为她感到骄傲。
en:Now Judy and I — I have to say —totally related to each other.Not quite an obvious alliance.I mean, literally, her hometown is called Whitesville, West Virginia.I mean, they are not —they ain&#39;t competing for the birthplace of hip hop titleor anything like that.But the back of my T-shirt, the one that she gave me,says, &quot;Save the endangered hillbillies.&quot;So homegirls and hillbillies we got it togetherand totally understand that this is what it&#39;s all about.But just a few months ago,Judy was diagnosedwith stage-three lung cancer.Yeah.And it has since moved to her bones and her brain.And I just find it so bizarrethat she&#39;s suffering from the same thingthat she tried so hard to protect people from.But her dreamof Coal River Mountain Windis her legacy.And she might notget to see that mountaintop.But rather than writingyet some kind of manifesto or something,she&#39;s leaving behinda business plan to make it happen.That&#39;s what my homegirl is doing.So I&#39;m so proud of that.
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:（众人鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:这三个人彼此并不相识，但是他们有着惊人的相似之处。他们都是解决问题的带头人，我非常幸运能够结识他们并且向他们学习，我在工作中见识到了许多榜样，他们就是其中几位模范。我很幸运地将他们的事迹作为主秀展示在我的网络公共广播电台的节目“应许之地（ThePromisedLand.org）”中。他们都是有远见的实业家。他们仔细审视眼前的需求－美容产品，健康的校园，电力－并想办法满足这些需求。如果你想通过削减员工人数来解决问题，那么将有许多人失业，而这些人可不是省油的灯。事实上，我认为他们是“最奢侈的公民”，他们其中有许多人是从中东战场上退伍回乡的伤兵，他们世世代代贫穷，受伤痛之苦；另外还有刑满释放人员。拿那些老兵来说，根据退伍军人事务部公布的数据，自2003年以来退伍军人服用的精神方面的药物增加了六倍。我认为这个数字目前仍然在上升。他们并不是最庞大的群体，但却是开销最大的群体之一。他们是家庭暴力，吸毒酗酒的高危人群，他们的子女在学校普遍不如其他家庭的孩子，由于承受巨大压力，他们的身体健康非常差。我所提到的这三位都懂得如何有效地把资金引入地方经济以满足市场需求，解决现存的社会问题，并防止新问题的产生。
en:But these three peopledon&#39;t know each other,but they do have an awful lot in common.They&#39;re all problem solvers,and they&#39;re just some of the many examplesthat I really am privileged to see, meet and learn fromin the examples of the work that I do now.I was really lucky to have them all featuredon my Corporation for Public Radio radio showcalled ThePromisedLand.org.Now they&#39;re all very practical visionaries.They take a look at the demands that are out there —beauty products, healthy schools, electricity —and how the money&#39;s flowing to meet those demands.And when the cheapest solutionsinvolve reducing the number of jobs,you&#39;re left with unemployed people,and those people aren&#39;t cheap.In fact, they make up some of what I call the most expensive citizens,and they include generationally impoverished,traumatized vets returning from the Middle East,people coming out of jail.And for the veterans in particular,the V.A. said there&#39;s a six-fold increasein mental health pharmaceuticals by vets since 2003.I think that number&#39;s probably going to go up.They&#39;re not the largest number of people,but they are some of the most expensive —and in terms of the likelihood for domestic abuse, drug and alcohol abuse,poor performance by their kids in schoolsand also poor health as a result of stress.So these three guys all understandhow to productively channel dollarsthrough our local economiesto meet existing market demands,reduce the social problems that we have nowand prevent new problems in the future.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:这样的例子数不胜数。例一：废物处理与失业问题。当我们思考或讨论如何回收利用时，许多可回收物品已经被焚化或掩埋了，这加大了城市的回收分流难度，使回收过程更复杂。这些废物都在哪里被处理？一般在贫困的社区里。大家知道，在生态工业的运作模式中-有这样一种模式，它在欧洲被称为生态工业园区。在这里，你既可以把一家公司的废物交给另一家公司做原料，也可以把材料回收利用生产出新的商品。我们可以在当地鼓励和创造这样的当地市场需求，使回收后的材料成为制造业的原材料。在我家乡，我们已经在布朗克斯区尝试过这种模式，可惜我们的市长更想在那里建一个监狱，幸好- 我们本想可以创造几百个就业机会-而多年以后，这个城市居然决定在这里建造监狱，感谢上苍，政府已经打消了这个念头。
en:And there are plenty of other examples like that.One problem: waste handling and unemployment.Even when we think or talk about recycling,lots of recyclable stuff ends up getting incinerated or in landfillsand leaving many municipalities, diversion rates —they leave much to be recycled.And where is this waste handled? Usually in poor communities.And we know that eco-industrial business, these kinds of business models —there&#39;s a model in Europe called the eco-industrial park,where either the waste of one company is the raw material for another,or you use recycled materialsto make goods that you can actually use and sell.We can create these local markets and incentivesfor recycled materialsto be used as raw materials for manufacturing.And in my hometown, we actually tried to do one of these in the Bronx,but our mayor decided what he wanted to seewas a jail on that same spot.Fortunately — because we wanted to create hundreds of jobs —but after many years,the city wanted to build a jail.They&#39;ve since abandoned that project, thank goodness.
时间： 9:23
zh-cn:还有一个问题：不健康食品以及失业问题。工人阶级以及城市贫困的美国人并没有从现有的食品体系得到经济利益。这个体系过度使用交通运输，化学肥料，大量水资源，以及冷藏处理。大规模农业操作不仅污染了水源以及土壤，还生产出对人体健康危害极高的产品让我们在医疗卫生方面损失了大把金钱，并降低了生产力。同时，城市农业现在成为了一个热点话题，但它是以园艺为主的，这对社区建设具有重大意义-但是却不能增加就业机会，也不能对食品生产做贡献。园艺在这些方面的作用不显著。我的任务之一就是为把城市农业与农产品体系结合起来做准备工作，这样就能创造出一个城市农业的国内品牌，“千里送荔枝”的现状就会尽早退出历史舞台了，这样，每个城市都能使用本地耕种资源增加个体农户所拥有和经营的室内种植设施，而现在这个市场里只有消费者。这可以很好地扶持大城市里的季节性农户，他们由于无力满足全年生产的需求而逐渐衰落。这不是在抢乡村农户的饭碗，而是助他们一臂之力。这是一个良性的具有经济活力的食品体系。
en:Another problem: unhealthy food systems and unemployment.Working-class and poor urban Americansare not benefiting economicallyfrom our current food system.It relies too much on transportation,chemical fertilization, big use of waterand also refrigeration.Mega agricultural operationsoften are responsible for poisoning our waterways and our land,and it produces this incredibly unhealthy productthat costs us billions in healthcareand lost productivity.And so we know &quot;urban ag&quot;is a big buzz topic this time of the year,but it&#39;s mostly gardening,which has some value in community building — lots of it —but it&#39;s not in terms of creating jobsor for food production.The numbers just aren&#39;t there.Part of my work now is really laying the groundworkto integrate urban ag and rural food systemsto hasten the demise of the 3,000-mile saladby creating a national brand of urban-grown producein every city,that uses regional growing powerand augments it with indoor growing facilities,owned and operated by small growers,where now there are only consumers.This can support seasonal farmers around metro areaswho are losing out because they really can&#39;t meetthe year-round demand for produce.It&#39;s not a competition with rural farm;it&#39;s actually reinforcements.It allies in a really positiveand economically viable food system.
时间：10:42
zh-cn:它目标在于满足城市里来自医院，养老院，学校，托儿所的需求，并能创造一个地方就业网络。这是非常精明的基础设施安排。我们对城市环境的建设每时每刻都影响着人们的健康与幸福。我们城乡地区的政府负责基础设施的具体操作事项-包括废物处理，能源需求，由失业，辍学，入狱所带来的社会损失，还有公共医疗成本的种种影响。精明的基础设施管理能够帮助城乡政府协调好基础设施和社会需求。我们希望把那些光靠社会税收救济的人群转变为纳税人。想象一下：一个能够创造地方就业机会，巧妙布置基础设施，并提高地方经济稳定的全国性商业模式。希望大家能够看到这里有一个主题。
en:The goal is to meet the cities&#39; institutional demandsfor hospitals,senior centers, schools, daycare centers,and produce a network of regional jobs, as well.This is smart infrastructure.And how we manage our built environmentaffects the health and well-being of people every single day.Our municipalities, rural and urban,play the operational course of infrastructure —things like waste disposal, energy demand,as well as social costs of unemployment, drop-out rates, incarceration ratesand the impacts of various public health costs.Smart infrastructure can provide cost-saving waysfor municipalities to handleboth infrastructure and social needs.And we want to shift the systemsthat open the doors for people who were formerly tax burdensto become part of the tax base.And imagine a national business modelthat creates local jobs and smart infrastructureto improve local economic stability.So I&#39;m hoping you can see a little theme here.
时间：11:38
zh-cn:这些事例反映了一个趋势。这不是我有意制造的，也不是一个巧合。我早就发现这趋势已经在全国范围内发生了，更令人开心的是，这趋势正不断增强。而且，我们都必须参与进去。这是我们国家经济复苏的重要基石。我把它成为“国土安全”。经济的衰退让我们惊慌失措，然而，这些天来，另一股力量正在孕育而生。那就是我们意识到了经济复苏的关键在于我们自身。现在，我们应当行动起来忧地方所忧，为当地社区做实事。不管我们的邻居是住在隔壁，住在邻州，还是住在邻国-我们都能给他们造福。当地的总和就是全球。“国土安全”的意义在于重建自然防御，给人们工作，重筑自然系统。“国土安全”意在为家园创造财富，而不是糟蹋千里之外的财富。把社会问题与环境问题结合起来同时用同一方法解决，能够节省大量人力物力，创造财富，并保障国家安全。许许多多绝妙的点子在美国各地迸发。我们目前所面临的问题是如何找到并扶持更多的好点子。
en:These examples indicate a trend.I haven&#39;t created it, and it&#39;s not happening by accident.I&#39;m noticing that it&#39;s happening all over the country,and the good news is that it&#39;s growing.And we all need to be invested in it.It is an essential pillar to this country&#39;s recovery.And I call it &quot;hometown security.&quot;The recession has us reeling and fearful,and there&#39;s something in the air these daysthat is also very empowering.It&#39;s a realizationthat we are the keyto our own recovery.Now is the time for us to act in our own communitieswhere we think local and we act local.And when we do that, our neighbors —be they next-door, or in the next state,or in the next country —will be just fine.The sum of the local is the global.Hometown security means rebuilding our natural defenses,putting people to work,restoring our natural systems.Hometown security means creating wealth here at home,instead of destroying it overseas.Tackling social and environmental problemsat the same time with the same solutionyields great cost savings,wealth generation and national security.Many great and inspiring solutionshave been generated across America.The challenge for us nowis to identify and support countless more.
时间：12:57
zh-cn:尽管“国土安全”有照顾好自己的意思，但这跟“仁爱先及亲友”还是有本质区别的。我最近读了一本名为《爱的领导力》的书，作者是约翰·霍普·布莱恩特（John Hope Bryant）。书中写道，在一个被恐惧所充斥的世界里如何成为一个领导人。读了这本书以后，我重新审视了我的理论，因为我必须清楚地解释其中的道理。大家看，这是我父亲，他在很多方面都非常出色。他在种族隔离时期的南方长大，在最艰苦的时期，逃过了私刑的迫害，他给我和兄弟姐妹们提供了一个安稳的家，他还帮助了许多生活困难的人们建立了自己的家。但是，和所有人一样，他有些坏毛病。（笑声）他沉迷赌博，无法自拔。对于他而言“仁爱先及亲友”意味着我的发薪日或其他人的发薪日正好就是他赌博发财的那一天。他需要帮助。有时候，我会把学校打工和暑假工作挣得的钱借给他，他只要手气好，就会坚持连本带利把钱还给我。有时候，他很幸运，信不信由你，他在洛杉矶的赛马场上赢了一些钱-洛杉矶受欢迎的原因之一- 那时是二十世纪四十年代的事了，他赚了一万五千美元现金，买下了一间房子，我就是在这间房子里长大的。对此，我并没有什么意见。但是，我对他应负有义务之责。我渐渐长大。现在我已经是成年人了。在成长的过程中，我学会了很多道理。
en:Now, hometown security is about taking care of your own,but it&#39;s not like the old saying,&quot;charity begins at home.&quot;I recently read a book called &quot;Love Leadership&quot; by John Hope Bryant.And it&#39;s about leading in a worldthat really does seem to be operating on the basis of fear.And reading that book made me reexamine that theorybecause I need to explain what I mean by that.See, my dadwas a great, great man in many ways.He grew up in the segregated South,escaped lynching and all thatduring some really hard times,and he provided a really stable home for me and my siblingsand a whole bunch of other people that fell on hard times.But, like all of us, he had some problems.(Laughter)And his was gambling,compulsively.To him that phrase, &quot;Charity begins at home,&quot;meant that my payday — or someone else&#39;s —would just happen to coincide with his lucky day.So you need to help him out.And sometimes I would loan him moneyfrom my after-school or summer jobs,and he always had the great intentionof paying me back with interest,of course, after he hit it big.And he did sometimes, believe it or not,at a racetrack in Los Angeles —one reason to love L.A. — back in the 1940s.He made 15,000 dollars cashand bought the house that I grew up in.So I&#39;m not that unhappy about that.But listen, I did feel obligated to him,and I grew up — then I grew up.And I&#39;m a grown woman now,and I have learned a few things along the way.
时间：14:29
zh-cn:对于我而言，仁爱往往意味着给予，是你分内的事情，是你一直在做的事情，也可能是你一厢情愿的付出。我认为仁爱是推动事情的发展将最初的投入增值和最大化，而不是为下一年增大投入-我不想纵容父亲的坏毛病。我花了几年时间观察那些意在帮助并支持社区的良好动机如何让人们裹足不前。在过去的20年里，我们为解决社会问题花了不少善款，然而教育的成果，营养不良，牢狱，肥胖，糖尿病，工资分配不均等问题都在加剧，也有例外比如贫困人口中婴儿死亡率有所下降-但是我们的目标是让他们过上幸福的美好人生。
en:To me, charityoften is just about giving,because you&#39;re supposed to,or because it&#39;s what you&#39;ve always done,or it&#39;s about giving until it hurts.I&#39;m about providing the meansto build something that will growand intensify its original investmentand not just require greater giving next year —I&#39;m not trying to feed the habit.I spent some yearswatching how good intentions for community empowerment,that were supposed to be thereto support the community and empower it,actually left peoplein the same, if not worse, position that they were in before.And over the past 20 years,we&#39;ve spent record amounts of philanthropic dollarson social problems,yet educational outcomes,malnutrition, incarceration,obesity, diabetes, income disparity,they&#39;ve all gone up with some exceptions —in particular, infant mortalityamong people in poverty —but it&#39;s a great world that we&#39;re bringing them into as well.
时间：15:30
zh-cn:我多少了解这些问题的实际情况，因为我曾在非营利性行业里工作过很多年。我现在是一名执行理事，足足干了两年。（笑声）在那段时间里，我意识到，只有因地制宜地发展我们才能造福当地社区。我碰到了资金方面的问题。我们的工程做得越火，赞助机构给的钱就越少。实话说，在同一年里既被邀来在TED讲话，又获得了“麦克阿瑟奖”大家都以为我已经是个成功人士了。其实，为了让我的工作继续下去，我依靠演讲所获得的收入支付了我机构三分之一的开销。早些时候，坦白说，我的项目也就比计划提前一点完成了。在此之后，这一片垃圾掩埋场-我在TED2006年的演讲中重点提到过它-后来成了这个小公园。我还在这里举行了婚礼呢。就在这里。我的狗正把我牵到婚礼举行的地点。南布朗克斯绿化带在2006年还只是图纸上的一幅画。在那之后，我们得到了将近五千万美元的一揽子刺激计划资金来建设绿化带。我们很开心，我看到施工就很愉快，应为我们能亲眼见证工程的发展。
en:And I know a little bit about these issues,because, for many years, I spent a long timein the non-profit industrial complex,and I&#39;m a recovering executive director,two years clean.(Laughter)But during that time, I realized that it was about projectsand developing them on the local levelthat really was going to do the right thing for our communities.But I really did struggle for financial support.The greater our success,the less money came in from foundations.And I tell you, being on the TED stageand winning a MacArthur in the same exact yeargave everyone the impression that I had arrived.And by the time I&#39;d moved on,I was actually covering a thirdof my agency&#39;s budget deficit with speaking fees.And I think because early on, frankly,my programs were just a little bit ahead of their time.But since then,the park that was just a dump and was featured at a TED2006 Talkbecame this little thing.But I did in fact get married in it.Over here.There goes my dog who led me to the park in my wedding.The South Bronx Greenwaywas also just a drawing on the stage back in 2006.Since then, we gotabout 50 million dollars in stimulus package moneyto come and get here.And we love this, because I love construction now,because we&#39;re watching these things actually happen.
时间：16:49
zh-cn:我希望大家看到把公益事业转变为企业事业是多么重要。我开办了自己的公司，就是为了帮助全国各地的社区实践他们的自身潜力从而进一步从方方面面提高人们的生活质量。“国土安全”就是我的下一步行动。我们需要吸引那些有慧眼的人向这些类型的当地企业进行投资，吸引那些愿意和我这样的人合作的伙伴我们都力求找到发展的趋势，适应气候变化的要求，并理解商业发展的社会成本是不断增加的。我们必须齐心协力，拥抱并修复我们的土地，修复电力系统，并进行自我反省。不要再为商业广场，监狱，体育馆，和其它设施浪费钱了。我们应该开始构筑充满生气的希望长城。
en:So I want everyone to understandthe critical importanceof shifting charity into enterprise.I started my firm to help communities across the countryrealize their own potentialto improve everything about the quality of life for their people.Hometown securityis next on my to-do list.What we need are people who see the valuein investing in these types of local enterprises,who will partner with folks like meto identify the growth trends and climate adaptationas well as understand the growing social costsof business as usual.We need to work togetherto embrace and repair our land,repair our power systemsand repair ourselves.It&#39;s time to stop buildingthe shopping malls, the prisons,the stadiumsand other tributes to all of our collective failures.It is time that we start buildingliving monuments to hope and possibility.
时间：17:46
zh-cn:非常感谢大家。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：17:48
zh-cn:（热烈掌声）
en:(Applause)
