时间： 0:12
zh-cn:清晨7点45分，我打开那扇门，那扇通往建筑楼的门，即便它只能让我失望。我走过门廊，清洁工每日在我的身后打扫，但我从未高尚地记住他们的名字。储物柜敞开着，就像青春期的男生们看到女生们穿着暴露的衣服——那种除了掩饰她们的不安全感，其实什么都没有遮住的衣服时，他们张大的嘴一样。处处彰显着自己的男子气概的，是成长在没有父亲的家庭中的男人；恃强凌弱、横行霸道的，是需要拥抱的持枪者。老师们拿着不足以维持生计的薪水，孩子们如潮水一般涌来聆听教诲，却从未学会游泳。下课铃一响，孩子们便像红海分开一样，彼此说再会。
en:At 7:45 a.m., I open the doors to a buildingdedicated to building, yet only breaks me down.I march down hallways cleaned up after me every dayby regular janitors,but I never have the decency to honor their names.Lockers left open like teenage boys&#39; mouthswhen teenage girls wear clothes that coverstheir insecurities but exposes everything else.Masculinity mimicked by men who grew up with no fathers,camouflage worn by bullies who are dangerously armedbut need hugs.Teachers paid less than what it costs them to be here.Oceans of adolescents come here to receive lessonsbut never learn to swim,part like the Red Sea when the bell rings.
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:这就是我们的训练场。我的高中，芝加哥，在那里，学生被蓄意分隔成不同类别。像有一张铁丝网横在我们中间一样。“普通学生”和“优等生”的标签不绝于耳。我是一个优等生，却混杂在普通学生中一道回家。那些普通学生，就像战士站在统治他们的领地上一样。这就是我们的训练场：永无止境地从优等生中寻找平庸者，只是为了回收体系的垃圾。
en:This is a training ground.My high school is Chicago,diverse and segregated on purpose.Social lines are barbed wire.Labels like &quot;Regulars&quot; and &quot;Honors&quot; resonate.I am an Honors but go home with Regular studentswho are soldiers in territory that owns them.This is a training ground to sort out the Regularsfrom the Honors, a reoccurring cyclebuilt to recycle the trash of this system.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:从小接受的资本化训练告诉你，虽然资本主义养育了你，但你还必须踩在别人的肩膀上才能实现自己的目标。这就是我们的训练场：在这里，一部分人被训练成领导者，另一部分人被训练如何去服从。为什么我们中很多人去饶舌，因为真相很难下咽。对学位的需求让许多人感到害怕。
en:Trained at a young age to capitalize,letters taught now that capitalism raises youbut you have to step on someone else to get there.This is a training ground where one groupis taught to lead and the other is made to follow.No wonder so many of my people spit bars,because the truth is hard to swallow.The need for degrees has left so many people frozen.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:家庭作业让人抓狂，每当你回到家中，你的家就是作业，你根本不想拿起作业本。读课本也让人抓狂，但有时，读书也没有用：那就是当你觉得你的命运已被决定——不是死亡，就是被征用的时候。考试更让人抓狂，但是在答题卡上填涂得再多，也无法阻止枪声响起，子弹爆炸。
en:Homework is stressful,but when you go home every day and your home is work,you don&#39;t want to pick up any assignments.Reading textbooks is stressful,but reading does not matter when you feelyour story is already written,either dead or getting booked.Taking tests is stressful,but bubbling in a Scantron does not stopbullets from bursting.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:我听到我们的教育正在走向失败，但我以为，我们的教育正是成功实现了它的预期目标——训练你在已有的轨道上前行，去追寻一个对于我们很多人来说已经失败的美国梦。
en:I hear education systems are failing,but I believe they&#39;re succeeding at what they&#39;re built to do —to train you, to keep you on track,to track down an American dream that has failedso many of us all.
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
