时间： 0:11
zh-cn:一天，一只独眼母猴来到森林里。在树下，她看到一个妇人正在沉思冥想。独眼猴子认出这妇人，一个刹帝利族人。她的丈夫是个有名的婆罗门。为了更好地看看她的样子，独眼猴子爬到了树上。恰当其时，伴随着一声轰然巨响，天空打开了。（击掌）然后天神因陀罗跳到空地中。因陀罗看见了刹帝利妇人。啊哈。那妇人却没注意到因陀罗。于是，受到诱惑的因陀罗将那妇人推倒在地上，上前奸污了她。事后因陀罗就消失了。（啪！啪！）此时妇人的丈夫，那婆罗门人出现了。他马上就明白过来发生了什么事。于是，他向更高处的神灵陈情申诉希望能够获得公平正义。于是，毗湿奴神降临。
en:One day a one-eyed monkey came into the forest.Under a tree she saw a womanmeditating furiously.The one-eyed monkey recognized the woman, a Sekhri.She was the wife of an even more famous Brahmin.To watch her better, the one-eyed monkey climbed onto the tree.Just then, with a loud bang,the heavens opened. (Claps)And the god Indra jumped into the clearing.Indra saw the woman, a Sekhri.Ah-hah.The woman paid him no heed.So, Indra, attracted, threw her onto the floor,and proceeded to rape her.Then Indra disappeared. (Clap! Clap!)And the woman&#39;s husband, the Brahmin, appeared.He realized at once what had happened.So, he petitioned the higher godsso that he may have justice.So, the god Vishnu arrived.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:“有无目击证人？”
en:&quot;Are there any witnesses?&quot;
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:“只有独眼猴一只”，婆罗门答道。
en:&quot;Just a one-eyed monkey,&quot; said the Brahmin.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:这独眼猴子现在确实想为这刹帝利妇人伸张正义，于是，它就将事情的经过原原本本地讲了一遍。毗湿奴做出了裁决。
en:Now, the one-eyed monkeyreally wanted for the woman, a Sekhri, to get justice,so she retold events exactly as they had happened.Vishnu gave his judgment.
时间： 1:50
zh-cn:“因陀罗神犯了罪。在这罪行中侵害了一位婆罗门。我将召唤他来洗刷自己的罪行。”
en:&quot;The god Indra has sinned,in that he has sinned against ... a Brahmin.May he be called to wash away his sins.&quot;
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:于是，因陀罗也降临了，并且以一匹马作为牺牲。这罪行就此便蒸发了，只有一匹马被杀死了，一个神的罪即被免去，一个婆罗门的尊严得到了安抚，一个妇人……被糟蹋了，剩下一只独眼猴子……为了我们人类所谓的正义而困惑。
en:So, Indra arrived,and performed the sacrifice of the horse.And so it transpiredthat a horse was killed,a god was made sin-free,a Brahmin&#39;s ego was appeased,a woman ... was ruined,and a one-eyed monkey was left ...very confused at what we humans call justice.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:在印度，每三分钟便有一起强奸。在印度，只有百分之二十五的强奸报了警，并且这百分之二十五报了警的案子中，只有百分之四是受害人报警。有很多妇女不想要得到正义。
en:In India there is a rape every three minutes.In India, only 25 percent of rapescome to a police station,and of these 25 percent that come to a police station,convictions are only in four percent of the cases.That&#39;s a lot of women who don&#39;t get justice.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:然而这不仅仅关乎妇女。看看你的周围，看看你自己国家。因犯罪而被起诉的人群有特定的模式。如果你在澳大利亚，多数狱囚是原住民。如果你在印度，监狱里的多是穆斯林或Adivasis原住民，还有我们的族人，纳萨尔人。如果在美国，则多是黑人。这里面有一种趋势。就像在我的故事中，婆罗门和神灵们，总是得以把他们的真实说成真实。于是，难道我们不都成了独眼的猴子，或者双目健全的但困惑的旁观者？我们是否对不公正已经视若无睹？
en:And it&#39;s not only about women.Look around you, look at your own countries.There is a certain pattern in who gets charged with crimes.If you&#39;re in Australia, it&#39;s mostly aboriginals who are in jail.If you&#39;re in India, it&#39;s either Muslims or Adivasis,our tribals, the Naxalites.If you&#39;re in the U.S., it&#39;s mostly the blacks.There is a trend here.And the Brahmins and the gods, like in my story,always get to tell their truth as The Truth.So, have we all becomeone-eyed — two-eyed instead of one-eyed — monkeys?Have we stopped seeing injustice?
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:早上好。（鼓掌）你知道，我已经把这故事讲了550次，在40个国家对着不同的听众，从学校里的学生，到史密森纳研究院的黑领结礼服高级宴会等等等等，每一次这故事都产生一些触动。如果当时我走进同样的人群，然后说，“我想给你们讲讲正义和非正义。”他们会说，“非常感谢，我们还有别的事要做。”这就是艺术的惊人力量。
en:Good morning.(Applause)You know, I have told this storyclose to 550 times,in audiences in 40 countries,to school students, to black-tie dinners at the Smithsonian, and so on and so forth,and every time it hits something.Now, if I were to go into the same crowdand say, &quot;I want to lecture you about justice and injustice,&quot;they would say, &quot;Thank you very much, we have other things to do.&quot;And that is the astonishing power of art.
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:其他事物无能为力之处艺术通行无阻。你无法预设障碍，因为艺术打破了你的偏见，它打破所有你用来作为面具的东西，就是常说的，“我是这个，我是那个，我是那个。”没用，艺术将这些统统打破。它触及的地方没有别的事物可以到达。并且在这样一个态度很难被改变的世界里，我们需要一种语言能穿越这层隔膜。
en:Art can go through where other things can&#39;t.You can&#39;t have barriers, because it breaks through your prejudices,breaks through everything that you have as your mask,that says, &quot;I am this, I am that, I am that.&quot;No. It breaks through those.And it reaches somewhere where other things don&#39;t.And in a world where attitudes are so difficult to change,we need a language that reaches through.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:希特勒明白这一点；他用瓦格纳的音乐来让纳粹分子感觉无与伦比以及“像雅利安人”。意大利总理西尔维奥·贝卢斯科先生也明白这一点，他高坐在这个巨大的媒体电视帝国之巅。此外不胜列举。还有所有广告行业里的最好的创意头脑，他们帮助企业向我们销售我们根本不需要的商品，他们也知道艺术的力量。
en:Hitler knew it; he used Wagnerto make all the Nazis feel wonderful and Aryan.And Mr. Berlusconi knows it, as he sits atopthis huge empire of media and television and so on and so forth.And all of the wonderful creative minds who are in all the advertising agencies,and who help corporate sell us things we absolutely don&#39;t require,they also know the power of the arts.
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:对我来说，艺术降临很早。当我还是个小孩子，我的母亲，一个编舞者，注意到一个令她担忧的现象。这现象就是在古吉拉特邦边远乡下很多年轻的新娘相继结束自己的生命，因为她们被迫要为夫家带来越来越多的嫁妆钱。于是我妈妈编了一支舞蹈，这支舞后来总理尼赫鲁也看到了。总理来问我妈妈说，“这舞表达的是什么？”妈妈向他说明年轻妇女自杀的问题，而总理就此开始针对此事最早的调查，今天我们把这舞叫做陪嫁之舞。想象一下，一支舞引起对某一社会问题的调查，时至今日这一社会问题还令成千上万妇女失去生命。
en:For me it came very early.When I was a young child, my mother, who was a choreographer,came upon a phenomenon that worried her.It was a phenomenon where young brideswere committing suicide in rural Gujarat,because they were being forced to bring more and more money for their in-laws&#39; families.And she created a dance piece which then Prime Minister Nehru saw.He came to talk to her and said, &quot;What is this about?&quot;She told him and he set out the first inquiryinto what today we call Dowry Dance.Imagine a dance piecefor the first inquiry into somethingthat even today kills thousands of women.
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:很多年以后，当我与导演Peter Brook一起工作在“The Mahabharata”里扮演一个活跃的有女人味的女权主义者，她名叫Draupadi。我自己也有类似的体验。来自布朗克斯区的胖黑人大妈总会上前来说，“嘿姑娘，就是这么回事！”然后那些巴黎索邦大学的年轻小妞们会说：“Draupadi夫人不是女权主义者，是吗？是吧！”非洲的原住民妇女会说，“就是这样！”我想，“这就是我们需要的，作为一种通行的语言。“
en:Many years later, when I was working with the director Peter Brookin &quot;The Mahabharata&quot; playing this feisty feminine feministcalled Draupadi, I had similar experiences.Big fat black mamas in the Bronxused to come and say, &quot;Hey girl, that&#39;s it!&quot;And then these trendy young things in the Sorbonne would say,&quot;Madame Draupadi, on n&#39;est pas feministe, mais ça? Ça!&quot;And then aboriginal women in Africawould come and say, &quot;This is it!&quot;And I thought, &quot;This is what we need,as a language.&quot;
时间： 6:17
zh-cn:我们有人来自公共健康领域。并且帕塔奈克博士（Devdutt Pattanaik）也提到了公共健康。好吧，每年世界各地有数百万人因水传播疾病而死。仅仅因为没有干净的饮用水，或者象印度这样的国家里，人们不知道应该便后洗手。那么，他们是怎么做的呢？他们喝下已知不洁的水，感染霍乱，感染疟疾和黄疸，然后他们就死去了。政府无力提供干净的水源。他们尝试建造水源，尝试建造水管系统；但是没有实现。众多跨国公司提供了政府无力负担的机器设备。那么我们会怎么做呢？任凭他们死去？
en:We had somebody from public health. And Devdutt also mentioned public health.Well, millions of people around the world dieof waterborne disease every year.And that&#39;s because there is no clean water to drink,or in countries like India,people don&#39;t know that they need to soap their hands before defecation.So, what do they do?They drink the water they know is dirty,they get cholera, they get diarrhea, they get jaundiceand they die.And governments have not been able to provide clean water.They try and build it. They try and build pipelines; it doesn&#39;t happen.And the MNCs give them machines that they cannot afford.So what do you do? Do you let them die?
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:有人有了个好主意。并且是个简单的主意。这个主意不能为任何人谋取利润，但能在每个地方令人们更健康。在亚洲和印度的大多数房屋里都能找到一件棉质外衣。人们发现，并且世界卫生组织也赞成这一点，一件棉布外衣折叠八次后可以从渗过的水中减少百分之八十的细菌。那么，为什么各国政府不在电视上大大地宣扬这件事呢？为什么这个办法不在世界上每一张招贴海报上出现呢？因为其中没有利润可以赚取。因为没有人能得到回扣。但是它还是需要传达给人们。这视频演示的就是传达给大众的其中一种办法。
en:Well, somebody had a great idea.And it was a simple idea. It was an idea that could not profit anybodybut would help health in every field.Most houses in Asia and Indiahave a cotton garment.And it was discovered, and WHO endorses this,that a clean cotton garment folded eight times over,can reduce bacteria up to 80 percent from water sieved through.So, why aren&#39;t governments blaring this on television?Why isn&#39;t it on every poster across the third world?Because there is no profit in it.Because nobody can get a kickback.But it still needs to get to people.And here is one of the ways we get it to people.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:【视频】女人：那么就给我这么一个高级净水器吧。
en:[Video] Woman: Then get me one of those fancy water purifiers.
时间： 7:40
zh-cn:男人：你知道这净水器有多贵吗？我有个方法既不需要机器，也不需要木头，也不需要烧饭煤气。
en:Man: You know how expensive those are.I have a solution that requires neither machine,nor wood, nor cooking gas.
时间： 7:53
zh-cn:女人： 这解决方法是什么？
en:Woman: What solution?
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:男人：听好了，拿来你穿的棉布莎莉。
en:Man: Listen, go fetch that cotton sari you have.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:男孩：祖父，请告诉我解决方法。
en:Boy: Grand-dad, tell me the solution please.
时间： 8:00
zh-cn:男人：我待会儿会告诉你们所有人，稍等一下。
en:Man: I will tell all of you. Just wait.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:女人：给你，父亲。（男人：干净吗？）女人：当然。
en:Woman: Here father. (Man: Is it clean?) Woman: Yes, of course.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:男人：好，那就按我说的做。请把这衣服折叠八次。
en:Man: Then do as I tell you. Fold the sari into eight folds.
时间： 8:08
zh-cn:女人：好的，父亲。
en:Woman: All right, father.
时间： 8:10
zh-cn:男人：你来数她折叠的次数。（男孩：没问题，爷爷。）
en:Man: And you, you count that she does it right. (Boy: All right, grand-dad.)
时间： 8:13
zh-cn:男人：一，二，三，我们折叠了四次。我们过滤水中的所有病菌。
en:Man: One, two, three, four folds we make.All the germs from the water we take.
时间： 8:18
zh-cn:齐声：一，二，三，我们折叠了四次。我们过滤水中的所有病菌。五，六，七，我们折叠了八次。我们得到了安全饮用水。五，六，七，我们折叠了八次。我们得到了安全饮用水。
en:Chorus: One, two, three, four folds we make.All the germs from the water we take.Five, six, seven, eight folds we make.Our drinking water safe we make.Five, six, seven, eight folds we make.Our drinking water safe we make.
时间： 8:33
zh-cn:女人：父亲，这是你折叠八次的棉莎莉。
en:Woman: Here, father, your eight-times folded cotton sari.
时间： 8:35
zh-cn:男人：这就是那件莎莉。通过它的过滤，我们喝上了干净水。
en:Man: So this is the cotton sari.And through this we will have clean water.
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 8:45
zh-cn:我想，应该说所有现在在场的人，我们对于日常生活中不断升级的暴力都深感担忧。许多大学在试图设计课程来消除矛盾，政府则努力减少边界冲突，我们被暴力包围，无论是路上的交通暴力，家庭暴力，还是教师殴打学生致死，仅仅因为她没有完成家庭作业，总之暴力无处不在。那么，为什么我们不做点什么用日常的努力还对付这些问题呢？
en:I think it&#39;s safe to say that all of us hereare deeply concerned about the escalating violence in our daily lives.While universities are trying to devise courses in conflict resolution,and governments are trying to stop skirmishes at borders,we are surrounded by violence, whether it&#39;s road rage,or whether it&#39;s domestic violence,whether it&#39;s a teacher beating up a student and killing herbecause she hasn&#39;t done her homework, it&#39;s everywhere.So, why are we not doing somethingto actually attend that problem on a day to day basis?
时间： 9:15
zh-cn:我们正在力图使孩子们和年轻人意识到我们已沉溺于暴力，但我们可以停止暴力，并且存在其他的办法能够真正把暴力，愤怒，和挫败变成不同的情绪并避免伤害别人。那么，现在就有这么一个办法。
en:What are we doing to try and make childrenand young people realizethat violence is something that we indulge in,that we can stop,and that there are other ways of actuallytaking violence, taking anger, taking frustrationsinto different things that do not harm other people.Well, here is one such way.
时间： 9:37
zh-cn:（视频）（笑声）你们都是温和的人。你们的父母都是平和的人。你们的祖父母也都是平和的人。一家里有这么多平和的人？除了平和还能如何？
en:(Video) (Laughs) You are peaceful people.Your parents were peaceful people.Your grandparents were peaceful people.So much peace in one place?How could it be otherwise?
时间： 9:57
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：10:01
zh-cn:但是，如果……是的，如果万一……只是你身上的一点点基因在努力传承下去？从你在非洲最早的祖先开始，穿越每一代人，也许最终在诞生过程中传递给了你，这是一种隐秘的冲动，深藏在你身体里。并且如果它在你身体里，那么也就在我身体里。天哪。
en:But, what if ...Yes. What if ...One little gene in youhas been trying to get through?From your beginnings in Africa,through each generation, may be passed on to you,in your creation. It&#39;s a secret urge, hiding deep in you.And if it&#39;s in you, then it&#39;s in me too. Oh, dear.
时间：10:31
zh-cn:正是它让你揍你的小弟弟，打死一只蟑螂，抓伤你的妈妈。这种感觉从心灵深处涌现出来，当你的丈夫醉醺醺地回到家，你恨不得上去揍他一顿。或是在上班路上想要杀死那些自行车骑士，还有想要吊死你的侄女因为她是那么混帐。天哪。至于那些外来人，白人，黑人或棕色人种，给他们涂满柏油沾满羽毛用鞭子赶出城去。
en:It&#39;s what made you smack your baby brother,stamp on a cockroach, scratch your mother.It&#39;s the feeling that wells up from deep inside,when your husband comes home drunk and you wanna tan his hide.Want to kill that cyclist on the way to work,and string up your cousin &#39;cause she&#39;s such a jerk. Oh, dear.And as for outsiders, white, black or brown,tar and feather them, and whip them out of town.
时间：11:02
zh-cn:就是这么一小点基因。小而卑劣的基因。太小了以至于难以察觉，它是你的内建保护机制。肾上腺激素，杀戮。这基因让你有这样的欲望。是的，你最好面对它，因为你无法剔除它。你是 暴——力——的。因为，你要么就是个暴力受害者，要么，你就凌驾于暴力之上，像我一样。
en:It&#39;s that little gene. It&#39;s small and it&#39;s mean.Too small for detection, it&#39;s your built-in protection.Adrenaline, kill. It&#39;ll give you the will.Yes, you&#39;d better face it &#39;cause you can&#39;t displace it.You&#39;re V-I-O-L-E-N-T.Cause you&#39;re either a victim, or on top, like me.
时间：11:38
zh-cn:再见，亚伯拉罕·林肯。再见，圣雄甘地。再见，马丁·路德金。你好，这一街区的黑帮对另一街区的帮派大开杀戒。你好，富国的政府们把军火卖给穷国的政府们，以至于穷国政府都无力承担向大众供应食物。你好文明世界。你好二十一世纪。看看我们做的……看看人们都做了什么。（鼓掌）
en:Goodbye, Abraham Lincoln.Goodbye, Mahatma Gandhi.Goodbye, Martin Luther King.Hello, gangs from this neighborhoodkilling gangs from that neighborhood.Hello governments of rich countriesselling arms to governments of poor countrieswho can&#39;t even afford to give them food.Hello civilization. Hello, 21st century.Look what we&#39;ve ...look what they&#39;ve done.(Applause)
时间：12:31
zh-cn:主流艺术，电影，在全世界都已经被用来讨论社会问题。几年前有一部电影叫做Rang De Basanti（芭萨提的颜色），突然令成千上万的年轻人着迷，使得他们志愿参与推动社会变革。在委内瑞拉，其中一部最受欢迎的肥皂剧有个女主角叫做Crystal。当屏幕上的Crystal患上了乳腺癌，有七万五千新增的年轻女性去做了早期胸部肿瘤X射线照相。当然还有，我们都知道的“阴道独白”。还有那些栋笃笑表演谈论的是关于伦理道德的尖锐话题。
en:Mainstream art, cinema,has been used across the world to talk about social issues.A few years ago we had a film called Rang De Basanti,which suddenly spawned thousands of young peoplewanting to volunteer for social change.In Venezuela, one of the most popularsoap operas has a heroine called Crystal.And when, onscreen, Crystal got breast cancer,75,000 more young women went to have mammographies done.And of course, &quot;The Vagina Monologues&quot; we know about.And there are stand-up comicswho are talking about racial issues, about ethnic issues.
时间：13:08
zh-cn:那么，为什么会这样呢，如果因为我们认为所有人一致同意我们需要一个更好的世界，我们需要一个更公正的世界，那为什么我们没有在使用那共同的语言，而这语言已经一直在向我们展示我们有能力打破藩篱，我们有能力触及人们的内心？我要向那些世界的规划者决策者说，那些政府，策略专家们，我要向他们说，“你们一直把艺术当作蛋糕上的浆果。然而它应当成为酵母。”因为，任何对未来的规划，如果2048年我们还指望存在，除非艺术被所有科学家，经济学家，以及所有那些为未来做准备的人所接纳，除非这样，否则，很不幸到2048年我们美好公正的世界可能不会存在。并且，除非这一点真正遍及世界，否则这美好公正世界永远不会成为现实。
en:So, why is it,that if we think that we all agreethat we need a better world,we need a more just world,why is it that we are not using the one languagethat has consistently showed usthat we can break down barriers, that we can reach people?What I need to say to the planners of the world,the governments, the strategistsis, &quot;You have treated the arts as the cherry on the cake.It needs to be the yeast.&quot;Because, any future planning,if 2048 is when we want to get there,unless the arts are put with the scientists,with the economists,with all those who prepare for the future, badly,we&#39;re not going to get there.And unless this is actually internalized, it won&#39;t happen.
时间：14:00
zh-cn:那么我们需要什么呢？我们需要什么来实现呢？我们需要仔细分析我们的想法关于未来规划者应该是什么样，关于正确合适的道路是什么。然而，这么多年建立一个更好世界的努力尝试，我们还是失败了。被强奸的人更多了。战争更多了。有更多的人因简单的事情而死去。所以，应当还要有所付出。这就是我希望的。能不能请把刚才最后那个音乐放一下？
en:So, what is it that we require? What is it that we need?We need to break down our visionof what planners are,of what the correct way of a path is.And to say all these years of tryingto make a better world, and we have failed.There are more people being raped. There are more wars.There are more people dying of simple things.So, something has got to give. And that is what I want.Can I have my last audio track please?
时间：14:29
zh-cn:从前有个公主口哨吹得很美。（吹口哨）她的父亲国王说，“不许吹口哨。”她母亲皇后说，“哎呀，别吹口哨。”但公主还是接着吹。（吹口哨）
en:Once there was a princess who whistled beautifully.(Whistling)Her father the king said, &quot;Don&#39;t whistle.&quot;Her mother the queen said, &quot;Hai, don&#39;t whistle.&quot;But the princess continued whistling.(Whistling)
时间：14:49
zh-cn:时光飞逝公主长大了变成了一个美丽的年轻女子，口哨吹得甚至比人更美。（吹口哨）她的父王说，“谁会娶一个吹口哨的公主？”她的母后说，“谁会娶一个吹口哨的公主？”
en:The years went by and the princess grew upinto a beautiful young woman,who whistled even more beautifully.(Whistling)Her father the king said, &quot;Who will marry a whistling princess?&quot;Her mother the queen said, &quot;Who will marry a whistling princess?&quot;
时间：15:08
zh-cn:然而国王有了个主意。他宣布了选婿。他邀请来所有的王子与他的女儿比试吹口哨。“无论是谁吹口哨胜过我女儿就能得到我的半个王国和我的女儿！”很快王宫里挤满了吹着口哨的王子。（吹口哨）有的吹得差。有的吹得好。但是没人能胜过公主。
en:But the king had an idea.He announced a Swayamvara.He invited all the princes to come and defeat his daughter at whistling.&quot;Whoever defeats my daughter shall have half my kingdomand her hand in marriage!&quot;Soon the palace filled with princes whistling.(Whistling)Some whistled badly.Some whistled well.But nobody could defeat the princess.
时间：15:38
zh-cn:“现在我们怎么办呢？”国王说。“现在我们怎么办呢？”王后说。公主却说，“父亲，母亲，别担心。我有个主意。我要去见这里每个年轻人并且我要问他们，他们是不是确实败给了我？而有谁能承认这一点，那么他就是我心所属。”
en:&quot;Now what shall we do?&quot; said the king.&quot;Now what shall we do?&quot; said the queen.But the princess said, &quot;Father, Mother, don&#39;t worry.I have an idea. I am going to go to each of these young menand I am going to ask themif they defeated correctly.And if somebody answers, that shall be my wish.&quot;
时间：15:56
zh-cn:于是她去问每一个人，“你承认不承认我打败了你？”王子们说，“我？败给一个女子吗？没门，那绝不可能！不不不不！那是不可能的。”直到最后一个王子说，“公主，我承认，你确实胜过我。”“嗯哼……”她说“父亲，母亲，这个人应该做我的妻子。”（吹口哨）
en:So she went up to each and said, &quot;Do you accept that I have defeated you?&quot;And they said, &quot;Me? Defeated by a woman?No way, that&#39;s impossible! No no no no no! That&#39;s not possible.&quot;Till finally one prince said,&quot;Princess, I accept, you have defeated me.&quot;&quot;Uh-huh ...&quot; she said.&quot;Father, mother, this man shall be my wife.&quot;(Whistling)
时间：16:25
zh-cn:谢谢你们。（鼓掌）
en:Thank you.(Applause)
