时间： 0:11
zh-cn:嗨，这是我的手机手机能改变人们的生活而且能带给你个人的自由。有了手机，你能在叙利亚拍下危害人类的犯罪行为。有了手机，你能在埃及上tweet发状态并掀起一场抗议活动。有了手机，你还能录下一首歌，然后上传到SoundCloud并一夜成名。这一切都是有可能的，只有你有手机。
en:Hi. This is my mobile phone.A mobile phone can change your life,and a mobile phone gives you individual freedom.With a mobile phone,you can shoot a crime against humanity in Syria.With a mobile phone,you can tweet a messageand start a protest in Egypt.And with a mobile phone,you can record a song, load it up toSoundCloud and become famous.All this is possible with your mobile phone.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:我生于1984年，我住在柏林这个城市。让我们回到过去，回到1984的柏林。你能看到成千上万的人站了起来，为了改变而抗议这是1989年的秋天，想象一下那些为了变革而站起来的人们，如果在他们的口袋里都有一个手机，
en:I&#39;m a child of 1984,and I live in the city of Berlin.Let&#39;s go back to that time, to this city.Here you can seehow hundreds of thousands of peoplestood up and protested for change.This is autumn 1989,and imagine that all those people standing upand protesting for change had amobile phone in their pocket.
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:现在这里谁有手机的？麻烦举一下。把手机举起来，把手机举起来！举高了。安卓的，黑莓的，哇。还真挺多的。如今几乎每个人都有个手机了。
en:Who in the room has a mobile phone with you?Hold it up.Hold your phones up, hold your phones up!Hold it up. An Android, a Blackberry, wow.That&#39;s a lot. Almost everybody today has a mobile phone.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:但今天我想讲下关于我和我的手机的故事，以及它是怎样改变我的生活的。听我讲一下这里有35830行的数据资料都是原始数据为什么会在这里展示这些资料呢？因为在2006年的夏天，欧盟委员会推出了一条指令
en:But today I will talk about me and my mobile phone,and how it changed my life.And I will talk about this.These are 35,830 lines of information.Raw data.And why are these informations there?Because in the summer of 2006,the E.U. Commission tabled a directive.
时间： 2:23
zh-cn:叫做“数据保留指令”这条指令的内容是，在欧洲的每家电讯公司在欧洲的每家互联网服务公司必须对用户的数据资料进行大范围地保留谁给谁打电话了，谁给谁发邮件了谁给谁飞短信了而且还要记录在哪里使用了手机所有这些信息都将被电讯公司保存，保存半年到两年不等。互联网服务商也一样。
en:This directive [is] called Data Retention Directive.This directive says that each phone company in Europe,each Internet service company all over Europe,has to store a wide range of information about the users.Who calls whom? Who sends whom an email?Who sends whom a text message?And if you use your mobile phone, where you are.All this information is stored for at least six months,up to two years by your phone companyor your Internet service provider.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:整个欧洲的人民都起来反映，“我们并不想要这样”他们说，我们不要保留这些数据我们想在这个数字化的时代自己做主我们不要那些电讯公司和互联网服务公司来为我们保留数据资料人民当中不乏律师，记者，牧师，他们都说：“我们不需要这个。”
en:And all over Europe, people stood up and said,&quot;We don&#39;t want this.&quot;They said, we don&#39;t want this data retention.We want self-determination in the digital age,and we don&#39;t want that phone companies and Internet companieshave to store all this information about us.They were lawyers, journalists, priests,they all said: &quot;We don&#39;t want this.&quot;
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:这些就是你所看到的，约一万民众走上柏林的街道，呼唤道，“要自由，不要恐惧”有人甚至会说，这可能会变成Stasi的2.0版本Stasi以前是东德的秘密警员
en:And here you can see, like 10 thousands of peoplewent out on the streets of Berlin and said,&quot;Freedom, not fear.&quot;And some even said, this would be Stasi 2.0.Stasi was the secret police in East Germany.
时间： 3:50
zh-cn:我也问过自己，真的会这样吗？他们真的能储存关于我们的全部数据资料吗？每次我用手机，他们都会这样做吗？所以我咨询了我的电讯公司，德国电信当时它是德国最大的电讯公司我告诉他们，麻烦把你们储存的关于我的数据资料都发给我我一而再，再而三地要求，结果就像石沉大海，得到的只是一些涟漪般的搪塞。
en:And I also ask myself, does it really work?Can they really store all this information about us?Every time I use my mobile phone?So I asked my phone company, Deutsche Telekom,which was at that time the largest phone company in Germany,and I asked them, please,send me all the information you have stored about me.And I asked them once, and I asked them again,and I got no real answer. It was only blah blah answers.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:但我还是坚持，我就是要我的数据资料，因为你们记录保存的是我的生活啊。所以我决定对他们提出诉讼，因为我就是要拿回资料。但德国电信拒绝了，说我们不会给你的最后，我们达成了一个协议我放弃诉讼他们把我要求的数据资料发给我因为在这段期间，德国宪法法院明文规定了将这项欧洲指令写入德国法律是不符合宪法的。
en:But then I said, I want to have this information,because this is my life you are protocoling.So I decided to start a lawsuit against them,because I wanted to have this information.But Deutsche Telekom said, no,we will not give you this information.So at the end, I had a settlement with them.I&#39;ll put down the lawsuitand they will send me all the information I ask for.Because in the mean time,the German Constitutional Court ruledthat the implementation of this E.U. directiveinto German law was unconstitutional.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:然后我收到了这个巨丑的牛皮信封里面还有张光盘在光盘里，就是你们看到的三万五千八百三十行的数据信息第一眼看到这些时，我无奈了好吧，这文件还真挺大的过了一会我意识到，这是我的生活啊这是我半年的生活啊就在这个文档里面
en:So I got this ugly brown envelopewith a C.D. inside.And on the C.D., this was on.Thirty-five thousand eight hundred thirty lines of information.At first I saw it, and I said, okay,it&#39;s a huge file. Okay.But then after a while I realized,this is my life.This is six months of my life,into this file.
时间： 5:30
zh-cn:然后我就有些顾虑了，我应该怎么处理这些数据？因为你能看到我人在何处，我在哪过夜，我在干什么。然后我决定，摊开来，把这些数据都公开因为我想让人们明白数据保留是怎么一回事儿
en:So I was a little bit skeptical, what should I do with it?Because you can see where I am,where I sleep at night,what I am doing.But then I said, I want to go out with this information.I want to make them public.Because I want to show the people what does data retention mean.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:所以在《时代在线 》和《城市开放资料》的帮助下，我做了这个我半年生活的视觉图你可以放大和缩小你能够回放和快进你能看到我的每一个脚印你甚至能看到我是怎样坐火车从法兰克福市去到科隆市以及在路上我打电话的频率
en:So together with Zeit Online and Open Data City, I did this.This is a visualization of six months of my life.You can zoom in and zoom out,you can wind back and fast forward.You can see every step I take.And you can even seehow I go from Frankfurt by trainto Cologne, and how often I call in between.
时间： 6:22
zh-cn:有了这些数据资料，一切都成为了可能这听起来有点可怕但这不单单是我一个人的事而是我们大家都与之相关的首先，很简单，我给我妻子打电话，她也打给我我们彼此通了几次话然后又有些朋友打给我而且他们彼此也相互联系接着他又打给他，他又打给她，她又打给她，然后我们就组成了一个庞大的通讯网
en:All this is possible with this information.That&#39;s a little bit scary.But it is not only about me.It&#39;s about all of us.First, it&#39;s only like, I call my wife and she calls me,and we talk to each other a couple of times.And then there are some friends calling me,and they call each other.And after a while you are calling you,and you are calling you, and you have this greatcommunication network.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:但你却能看到里面的人都在和谁交流着什么时候他们会打电话，什么时候会去睡觉一切都在眼皮底下如果你得到了这些数据信息，你就知道谁是这个圈子的主导者你也能知道你的社交圈都在做些什么如果你得到了这些数据信息，那么你就能操控你的社交圈
en:But you can see how your people are communicating with each other,what times they call each other, when they go to bed.You can see all of this.You can see the hubs, like who are the leaders in the group.If you have access to this information,you can see what your society is doing.If you have access to this information,you can control your society.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:这是像中国和伊朗这类国家的蓝图这也是如何监测你的社交圈的蓝图因为你会知道谁和谁谈了话谁发邮件给了谁，这些都是可以做到的如果你得到了这些数据信息，而且它们可以保存至少半年的时间在欧洲，最长是两年
en:This is a blueprint for countries like China and Iran.This is a blueprint how to survey your society,because you know who talks to whom,who sends whom an email, all this is possibleif you have access to this information.And this information is stored for at least six monthsin Europe, up to two years.
时间： 7:53
zh-cn:就像我开头说的想象一下那些在1989年秋天走上柏林街头的人们如果他们口袋里都有手机那么Stasi就会知道谁参与了抗议活动如果Stasi提前了解到谁是活动的始作俑者，那么抗议也就不会发生了柏林墙也就倒不下来之后也不会有冷战铁幕的落下因为现在，州立机构和公司都想尽可能地保留关于我们的数据资料不管是网上的还是现实中的他们都不想放过一丝能追踪我们生活的机会他们也想永久地保留这些数据资料
en:Like I said at the beginning,imagine that all those people on the streets of Berlinin autumn of 1989had a mobile phone in their pocket.And the Stasi would have known who took part at this protest,and if the Stasi would have knownwho are the leaders behind it,this may never have happened.The fall of the Berlin Wall would maybe not [have been] there.And in the aftermath, also not the fall of the Iron Curtain.Because today, state agencies and companieswant to store as much information as they can get about us,online and offline.They want to have the possibility to track our lives,and they want to store them for all time.
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:然而，自我做主和生活在这个数字时代并不冲突只不过如今你得自己去争取自主权你必须每天都要去争取所以，在你回去之后，告诉你朋友，隐私在21世纪是很重要的它还没过时在你回去以后，告诉那些代表们虽然那些公司和州立机构可以对资料信息进行保留，但他们并非一定要这么做如果你不相信我，就去问问你的电讯公司他们存了你什么资料信息
en:But self-determination and living in the digital ageis no contradiction.But you have to fight for your self-determination today.You have to fight for it every day.So, when you go home,tell your friendsthat privacy is a value of the 21st century,and it&#39;s not outdated.When you go home, tell your representativeonly because companies and state agencies have the possibilityto store certain information, they don&#39;t have to do it.And if you don&#39;t believe me,ask your phone company what information they store about you.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:所以在以后，每次你使用手机时，让手机成为一个提醒提醒你得在这个数字时代为自己争取自主权谢谢
en:So, in the future, every time you use your mobile phone,let it be a reminder to youthat you have to fight for self-determination in the digital age.Thank you.
时间： 9:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
