时间： 0:12
zh-cn:爱因斯坦曾说过：“我从来不去想未来，因为它来得已经够快的了。”
en:Einstein said that&quot;I never think about the future —it comes soon enough.&quot;
时间： 0:16
zh-cn:当然，他说得对。今天我站在这里就是要让大家思考未来如何正在我们眼前展开。在过去的200年里，人类经历了两波巨大的创新。第一波是工业革命给我们带来了机器、工厂、铁路、电能、飞机，从此我们的生活大不相同。最近的互联网革命给我们带来了强大的运算能力、数据网络、和史无前例的获取信息和进行沟通的能力，和史无前例的获取信息和进行沟通的能力，从此我们的生活大不相同。
en:And he was right, of course.So today, I&#39;m here to ask you to think ofhow the future is happening now.Over the past 200 years, the world has experiencedtwo major waves of innovation.First, the Industrial Revolutionbrought us machines and factories, railways,electricity, air travel,and our lives have never been the same.Then the Internet revolutionbrought us computing power, data networks,unprecedented accessto information and communication,and our lives have never been the same.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:如今，我们正在期待另一场质的变化：物联网。它将不同的智能机器、先进的分析技术、和人类的创造力结合在一起，进行工作。它是大脑和机器的结合。从此我们的生活将大不相同。
en:Now we are experiencinganother metamorphic change:the industrial Internet.It brings together intelligent machines,advanced analytics,and the creativity of people at work.It&#39;s the marriage of minds and machines.And our lives will never be the same.
时间： 1:09
zh-cn:我目前的工作使我可以近距离地看到科技正在改变那些在我们的经济和生活中扮演了重要角色的工业部门，比如能源、航空、交通、医疗保健等等。对一个经济学家来说，这是非比寻常更是让人极度兴奋的，因为这是和工业革命一样强大甚至更强大的转型，在工业革命之前，完全无经济增长可言。
en:In my current role, I see up closehow technology is beginning to transformindustrial sectors that play a huge rolein our economy and in our lives:energy, aviation, transportation, health care.For an economist, this is highly unusual,and it&#39;s extremely exciting,because this is a transformationas powerful as the Industrial Revolution and more,and before the Industrial Revolution,there was no economic growth to speak of.
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:那么这个物联网究竟是什么？工业机器正被装上越来越多的传感器，这使得它们能够具备视觉、听觉和其它感觉比以前强大多了，它们可以产生惊人的数据量。接着日益成熟的分析技术对这些数据进行过滤，从而给我们提供了全新的、更有效率的操作机器的方法。不仅仅是单一的机器，还有整列火车、飞机、甚至整个电网、医院等等。它可以做到资源和系统的最优化。当然，传感器已经存在了一段时间了，但是不同的是，感应器价格的急剧下降还有多亏了云计算的发展，储存和处理数据的价格大大下降了。
en:So what is this industrial Internet?Industrial machines are being equippedwith a growing number of electronic sensorsthat allow them to see, hear, feela lot more than ever before,generating prodigious amounts of data.Increasingly sophisticated analyticsthen sift through the data,providing insights that allow usto operate the machines in entirely new ways,a lot more efficiently.And not just individual machines,but fleets of locomotives, airplanes,entire systems like power grids, hospitals.It is asset optimization and system optimization.Of course, electronic sensorshave been around for some time,but something has changed:a sharp decline in the cost of sensorsand, thanks to advances in cloud computing,a rapid decrease in the cost of storingand processing data.
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:所以我们正进入这样一个世界：那里与我们打交道的机器不仅聪明，而且绝顶聪明。它们能感知自我，有预测能力，反应迅速，可以社交。飞机引擎、火车、燃气轮机、医疗器械可以互相之间、以及和我们流畅地沟通。在这个世界，信息变得如此聪明，它会在我们需要它的时候自动出现，而不需要我们去寻找。我们已经开始在整个工业系统中进行部署嵌入式虚拟化技术，多核处理器技术，先进的基于云的通信技术，新的软件定义的机器基础设施——这使得机器成为虚拟化软件，使机器的软件和硬件脱钩，并允许我们远距离地、自动地监测、管理以及升级工业设备。
en:So we are moving to a worldwhere the machines we work withare not just intelligent; they are brilliant.They are self-aware, they are predictive,reactive and social.It&#39;s jet engines, locomotives, gas turbines,medical devices, communicating seamlesslywith each other and with us.It&#39;s a world where information itselfbecomes intelligent and comes to usautomatically when we need itwithout having to look for it.We are beginning to deploythroughout the industrial systemembedded virtualization,multi-core processor technology,advanced cloud-based communications,a new software-defined machine infrastructurewhich allows machine functionalityto become virtualized in software,decoupling machine software from hardware,and allowing us to remotely and automaticallymonitor, manage and upgrade industrial assets.
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:这些与我们有任何关系吗？首先，它已经使我们能够转向预防性的、基于条件的机器维护，也就是在机器即将坏掉之前就把它修理好，而不是浪费时间按照固定日程进行检修。而这意味着零计划外故障时间，也就是说，再也不会停电、再也不会有飞机延误。
en:Why does any of this matter at all?Well first of all, it&#39;s already allowing usto shift towards preventive,condition-based maintenance,which means fixing machinesjust before they break,without wasting timeservicing them on a fixed schedule.And this, in turn, is pushing us towardszero unplanned downtime,which means there will be no more power outages,no more flight delays.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:那么让我给大家举几个这些绝顶聪明的机器如何运作的例子，有些例子可能看上去微不足道，有些看上去则明显更深远，但是所有的都会产生非常巨大的影响。
en:So let me give you a few examplesof how these brilliant machines work,and some of the examples may seem trivial,some are clearly more profound,but all of them are going tohave a very powerful impact.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:让我们从航空业开始。现今，10%的航班取消或延误是由于临时的维护事件。突然有个部分出问题了。每年全球的航空业要因此遭受80亿美元的损失，更不用提这些事件对我们的影响了：压力，不方便，无助地坐在机场航站楼，眼睁睁地错过会议。那物联网在此能起到什么作用呢？我们开发了一套预防性的维护系统，它可以被安装在任何一架飞机上。它有自学的能力，能否预测容易被人类操作员忽视的问题。飞机在飞行过程中，会跟地面的技术人员保持沟通。等到降落的时候，他们就已经知道是否有任何部分需要维护。仅在美国，这样一个系统就可以预防每年超过6万次的延误和取消，帮助700万的乘客准时到达他们的目的地。
en:Let&#39;s start with aviation.Today, 10 percent of all flightscancellations and delaysare due to unscheduled maintenance events.Something goes wrong unexpectedly.This results in eight billion dollars in costsfor the airline industry globally every year,not to mention the impact on all of us:stress, inconvenience,missed meetings as we sit helplesslyin an airport terminal.So how can the industrial Internet help here?We&#39;ve developed a preventive maintenance systemwhich can be installed on any aircraft.It&#39;s self-learning and able to predict issuesthat a human operator would miss.The aircraft, while in flight,will communicate with technicians on the ground.By the time it lands, they will already knowif anything needs to be serviced.Just in the U.S., a system like this can preventover 60,000 delays and cancellations every year,helping seven million passengersget to their destinations on time.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:再以医疗行业为例：今天，护士们平均要花每轮21分钟寻找医疗设备。这看上去微不足道，但这却让病人得到照顾的时间变少了位于德克萨斯休斯敦的圣路加医疗中心已经利用了物联网技术来监测，以及连接病人、工作人员和医疗设备，这使得其床位周转时间减少了近一个小时。如果你急需做手术，一个小时很重要。这意味着更多的病人可以得到治疗，更多的生命可以被拯救。另一个在华盛顿州的医疗中心，正在试验一项应用，这项应用使得CT扫描和核磁共振的结果能够在云端进行分析，分析的效果更好价格也更低。想象一下一位刚刚遭受了重创的病人，他需要多个领域专家的会诊：神经科医师，心脏病专家，整形外科医生。如果他们可以即时地在同一时间看到扫描结果和图像，他们就能够提供更好更快的医疗。所有的这些都意味着更好的健康，同时还可以产生可观的经济效益。现有的低效率仅减少1%就可以节约全球医疗行业600亿美元，而这只是沧海一粟，要打造价格实惠的可持续的医疗，我们需要做的还有很多。
en:Or take healthcare.Today, nurses spend an averageof 21 minutes per shiftlooking for medical equipment.That seems trivial, but it&#39;s less time spentcaring for patients.St. Luke&#39;s Medical Center in Houston, Texas,which has deployed industrial Internet technologyto electronically monitor and connectpatients, staff and medical equipment,has reduced bed turnaround timesby nearly one hour.If you need surgery, one hour matters.It means more patients can be treated,more lives can be saved.Another medical center, in Washington state,is piloting an application that allowsmedical images from city scanners and MRIsto be analyzed in the cloud,developing better analyticsat a lower cost.Imagine a patientwho has suffered a severe trauma,and needs the attention of several specialists:a neurologist, a cardiologist,an orthopedic surgeon.If all of them can have instantaneousand simultaneous accessto scans and images as they are taken,they will be able to deliver better healthcare faster.So all of this translates into better health outcomes,but it can also deliver substantial economic benefits.Just a one-percent reduction in existing inefficienciescould yield savings of over 60 billion dollarsto the healthcare industry worldwide,and that is just a drop in the seacompared to what we need to do to make healthcareaffordable on a sustainable basis.
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:同样的技术进步也正被能源行业发生着，包括可再生能源。装有新的遥控监测和诊断的风电场，风力涡轮机之间可以互相沟通并根据风的情况协调调整其叶片的角度，现在每产生一度电成本可以降低到5美分十年前，这需要30美分，是现在的6倍。
en:Similar advances are happening in energy,including renewable energy.Wind farms equipped with newremote monitorings and diagnosticsthat allow wind turbines to talk to each otherand adjust the pitch of theirblades in a coordinated way,depending on how the wind is blowing,can now produce electricity at a costof less than five cents per kilowatt/hour.Ten years ago, that cost was 30 cents,six times as much.
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:其他的例子还有很多，并在不断增加，因为物联网的数据正以指数型增长。到2020年，物联网产生的数据会占到电子数据总量的50%以上。
en:The list goes on, and it will grow fast,because industrial data arenow growing exponentially.By 2020, they will account for over 50 percentof all digital information.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:但这不仅仅是关于数据，下面我要跟大家说说这已经正在影响我们每天做的工作，因为这新一波的创新给我们带来了新的工具和应用，使我们能够更聪明更快地合作，不仅让我们的工作更有效率，也更有价值。想象一下一个来到风电场的现场工程师，她带着一个手持式装置，她已经知道哪个涡轮需要维护。她已经带来了所有需要的部件，因为问题已经事先被诊断过了。如果她碰到了意料之外的问题，这个手持式装置使得她可以和在服务中心的同事沟通，让他们看见现场，给他们发送用于诊断的数据，然后他们可以现场视频指导她，一步一步，不管程序多复杂，最终修好机器并使其成功运转。他们的这个互动过程被记录下来并存储在一个可搜索的数据库里面。
en:But this is not just about data, so let me switch gearsand tell you how this is impacting alreadythe jobs we do every day,because this new wave of innovationis bringing about new tools and applicationsthat will allow us to collaboratein a smarter and faster way,making our jobs not just more efficientbut more rewarding.Imagine a field engineer arriving at the wind farmwith a handheld device telling herwhich turbines need servicing.She already has all the spare parts,because the problems were diagnosed in advanced.And if she faces an unexpected issue,the same handheld device will allow her tocommunicate with colleagues at the service center,let them see what she sees,transmit data that they can run through diagnostics,and they can stream videos that will guide her,step by step, through whatever complex procedureis needed to get the machines back up and running.And their interaction gets documentedand stored in a searchable database.
时间： 8:33
zh-cn:让我们停下来思考一下，这里有个非常重要的点。这新一轮的创新正在从根本上改变我们工作的方式。我知道你们很多人担心这些创新可能会对工作机会带来的影响。失业率已经很高了，而创新会消灭工作机会的担忧总是挥之不去。创新是颠覆性的。但是让我强调两点。首先，我们已经经历过了农业机械化，工业自动化，最终就业率上去了，因为创新是刺激增长的根本动力。它让产品的价格更实惠，它创造了新的需求，新的工作。第二，有人担心未来会只需要工程师、数据科学家，以及其他高度专业化的劳动者。相信我，作为一个经济学家，我也很害怕。但是你想想：正如一个小孩很容易就搞清楚如何操作一个iPad，新一代的移动的直观的工业应用会让不同技术程度的工作者的生活都变得更容易。未来的工作者会更像一个钢铁侠，而不是“摩登时代”中的查理·卓别林。毋庸置疑，新的高技术含量的工作会被创造出来：比如机械数据工程师，他们不仅懂得机器，还懂数据(分析)；那些熟悉自己所在的行业又懂数据分析技术的经理，可以利用这些技术重新组织自己的工作使利益最大化。
en:Let&#39;s stop and think about this for a minute,because this is a very important point.This new wave of innovation is fundamentallychanging the way we work.And I know that many of you will be concerned about the impact that innovation might have on jobs.Unemployment is already high,and there is always a fear that innovation will destroy jobs.And innovation is disruptive.But let me stress two things here.First, we&#39;ve already lived throughmechanization of agriculture,automation of industry,and employment has gone up,because innovation is fundamentally about growth.It makes products more affordable.It creates new demand, new jobs.Second, there is a concern that in the future,there will only be room for engineers,data scientists, and other highly-specialized workers.And believe me, as an economist, I am also scared.But think about it:Just as a child can easily figure outhow to operate an iPad,so a new generation of mobile and intuitiveindustrial applications will make life easierfor workers of all skill levels.The worker of the future will be more like Iron Manthan the Charlie Chaplin of &quot;Modern Times.&quot;And to be sure, new high-skilled jobs will be created:mechanical digital engineers who understandboth the machines and the data;managers who understand their industryand the analytics and can reorganize the businessto take full advantage of the technology.
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:现在让我们退一步。让我们看一下大的场景。有人称现在的创新都是关于社交媒体和无聊的游戏，其变革的力量与工业革命时期相差甚远。他们说那些促进增长的创新已经过去了。每次我听到这些的时候，我就忍不住想：即使在石器时代，肯定也有那么一群洞穴人某一天坐在篝火旁，看上去有点生气，不悦地看着另一群将一个石轮子在山上来回滚动的洞穴人。并互相说：“这个轮子的东西，不错，是好玩，但是和火比起来，肯定用处不大。伟大的发现都已经过去啦。”（笑声）
en:But now let&#39;s take a step back.Let&#39;s look at the big picture.There are people who argue that today&#39;s innovationis all about social media and silly games,with nowhere near the transformational powerof the Industrial Revolution.They say that all the growth-enhancing innovationsare behind us.And every time I hear this, I can&#39;t help thinking thateven back in the Stone Age,there must have been a group of cavemensitting around a fire one daylooking very grumpy,and looking disapprovinglyat another group of cavemenrolling a stone wheel up and down a hill,and saying to each other,&quot;Yeah, this wheel thing,cool toy, sure, but compared to fire,it will have no impact.The big discoveries are all behind us.&quot;(Laughter)
时间：10:42
zh-cn:这一波的技术创新和以往的任何创新一样鼓舞人心，会带来变革。人类的创造力和创新一直推动着我们前进。它们创造了工作。它们提高了生活水平。它们使我们的生活更健康更有价值。而这新一波刚刚开始席卷各个行业的创新也是如此。仅在美国，物联网在接下来的15年里，就可以将收入提高平均25%到40%，带给我们久别的快速经济增长，并给全球GDP增加10到15万亿美元。这是当今美国的经济总量。
en:This technological revolutionis as inspiring and transformationalas anything we have ever seen.Human creativity and innovationhave always propelled us forward.They&#39;ve created jobs.They&#39;ve raised living standards.They&#39;ve made our liveshealthier and more rewarding.And the new wave of innovationwhich is beginning to sweep through industryis no different.In the U.S. alone, the industrial Internetcould raise average income by 25 to 40 percentover the next 15 years,boosting growth to rates wehaven&#39;t seen in a long time,and adding between 10 and 15trillion dollars to global GDP.That is the size of the entire U.S. economy today.
时间：11:22
zh-cn:但这还没有发生。我们正处于这场变革的开始，途中会遇到各种困难需要我们去克服。我们需要投资新的技术，我们需要调整组织和管理实践，我们需要强大的网络安全管理技术来保护敏感信息和知识产权以及关键基础设施，免遭网络攻击。我们的教育系统也需要改进，以保障学生获得相应的技能。这个过程不会很容易，但是肯定会值得。我们面临的经济挑战很艰难，但是当我走进工厂，看到人类和绝顶聪明的机器相互协作，我看到这将给医院、机场，和发电厂带来的变化。我不仅乐观，我还非常期待。这一新的技术革命已经到来了。
en:But this is not a foregone conclusion.We are just at the beginning of this transformation,and there will be barriers to break,obstacles to overcome.We will need to invest in the new technologies.We will need to adapt organizationsand managerial practices.We will need a robust cybersecurity approachthat protects sensitive informationand intellectual propertyand safeguards critical infrastructurefrom cyberattacks.And the education system will need to evolveto ensure students are equipped with the right skills.It&#39;s not going to be easy,but it is going to be worth it.The economic challenges facing us are hard,but when I walk the factory floor,and I see how humans and brilliant machinesare becoming interconnected,and I see the difference this makesin a hospital, in an airport,in a power generation plant, I&#39;m not just optimistic,I&#39;m enthusiastic.This new technological revolution is upon us.
时间：12:18
zh-cn:所以想想未来吧，它很快就要到了。
en:So think about the future —it will be here soon enough.
时间：12:21
zh-cn:谢谢！
en:Thank you.
时间：12:24
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
