时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在1832年5月30日，人们听到一声枪响，枪声穿透了巴黎的第十三区（枪声）一个农民，那天早晨正去往市场朝枪声传来的地方跑了过去，并发现一名年轻男子正痛得在地上打滚，显然他在决斗中遭到了枪击。这个年轻人名叫伊瓦利斯特•伽罗瓦。他当时在巴黎是一个著名的革命者。伽罗瓦被送到了当地的医院，在医院第二天死在了他兄弟的怀中。他最后对他兄弟说的话是，“阿尔弗雷德不要为我哭泣。我需要聚集我能聚集的所有勇气让我在20岁时死去。”
en:On the 30th of May, 1832,a gunshot was heardringing out across the 13th arrondissement in Paris.(Gunshot)A peasant, who was walking to market that morning,ran towards where the gunshot had come from,and found a young man writhing in agony on the floor,clearly shot by a dueling wound.The young man&#39;s name was Evariste Galois.He was a well-known revolutionary in Paris at the time.Galois was taken to the local hospitalwhere he died the next day in the arms of his brother.And the last words he said to his brother were,&quot;Don&#39;t cry for me, Alfred.I need all the courage I can musterto die at the age of 20.&quot;
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:实际上，革命政治并不是使伽罗瓦著名的原因。而是几年前，当他还在上学时，他实际上已经破解了当时重大数学问题之一。随后他写信给巴黎的院士，尝试解释他的理论。但院士们弄不懂他写的任何东西。（众笑）这就是他怎么写大部分数学理论的。
en:It wasn&#39;t, in fact, revolutionary politicsfor which Galois was famous.But a few years earlier, while still at school,he&#39;d actually cracked one of the big mathematicalproblems at the time.And he wrote to the academicians in Paris,trying to explain his theory.But the academicians couldn&#39;t understand anything that he wrote.(Laughter)This is how he wrote most of his mathematics.
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:因此，在决斗的前一天晚上，他意识到这可能是他最后一次机会来尝试解释他的重大突破了。所以他彻夜未眠，不停地写东西，试图解释他的想法。随着黎明的到来，他准备迎接自己的命运。他把桌子上的一堆文件留给了下一代。也许他彻夜研究数学是他那天早晨受到枪击且被杀的真正原因。
en:So, the night before that duel, he realizedthis possibly is his last chanceto try and explain his great breakthrough.So he stayed up the whole night, writing away,trying to explain his ideas.And as the dawn came up and he went to meet his destiny,he left this pile of papers on the table for the next generation.Maybe the fact that he stayed up all night doing mathematicswas the fact that he was such a bad shot that morning and got killed.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:但包含在那些文件中的是一种新的语言，这种语言能让人们理解科学的一个最基本的概念，即对称性。现今，对称性几乎是大自然的语言。它有助于我们了解许多科学世界里不同的小东西。例如，分子结构。什么晶体是能让我们可以通过数学的对称性来了解的？
en:But contained inside those documentswas a new language, a language to understandone of the most fundamental conceptsof science — namely symmetry.Now, symmetry is almost nature&#39;s language.It helps us to understand so manydifferent bits of the scientific world.For example, molecular structure.What crystals are possible,we can understand through the mathematics of symmetry.
时间： 2:07
zh-cn:在微生物学中，你真的不想研究对称的东西。因为它们一般都比较令人讨厌。目前的猪流感病毒就是一种结构对称的病毒。而且它利用对称的功效来使自己很好的增殖。但就生物学更大范围的而言，对称性事实上非常重要，因为它能传递遗传信息。
en:In microbiology you really don&#39;t want to get a symmetrical object,because they are generally rather nasty.The swine flu virus, at the moment, is a symmetrical object.And it uses the efficiency of symmetryto be able to propagate itself so well.But on a larger scale of biology, actually symmetry is very important,because it actually communicates genetic information.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:我带了两张照片到这儿来，并人工的把他们做成了对称的。如果我问你们觉得哪些更漂亮，你们可能会被下面的两张吸引住。因为很难做到对称，所以如果你可以使自己对称，那么你在传递一种信号它意味着你得到了好的遗传基因，你有好的教养，因而你会有一个好的伴侣。所以，对称性是一种语言，它能有助于传递遗传信息。
en:I&#39;ve taken two pictures here and I&#39;ve made them artificially symmetrical.And if I ask you which of these you find more beautiful,you&#39;re probably drawn to the lower two.Because it is hard to make symmetry.And if you can make yourself symmetrical, you&#39;re sending out a signthat you&#39;ve got good genes, you&#39;ve got a good upbringingand therefore you&#39;ll make a good mate.So symmetry is a language which can help to communicategenetic information.
时间： 2:49
zh-cn:对称性还可以帮助我们解释欧洲粒子物理研究所大型强子对撞机正发生着什么事情。或者欧洲粒子物理研究所的大型强子对撞机没有发生什么事情。为了能够对基本粒子作出预测，我们可能会在那儿看到的（基本粒子），似乎所有的小平面都有某种奇怪的对称形状当它们在更高维的空间中时。
en:Symmetry can also help us to explainwhat&#39;s happening in the Large Hadron Collider in CERN.Or what&#39;s not happening in the Large Hadron Collider in CERN.To be able to make predictions about the fundamental particleswe might see there,it seems that they are all facets of some strange symmetrical shapein a higher dimensional space.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:我认为伽利略很好地概括了数学的力量：它让我们对周围的科学世界得以了解。他写道：“我们无法阅读宇宙，除非学会它的语言，且熟悉其写作特点。它是用数学语言写的。字母是三角形、圆和其他的几何数字，没有这些字母就意味着在人力所能及的范围内是不可能理解任何一个字的。”
en:And I think Galileo summed up, very nicely,the power of mathematicsto understand the scientific world around us.He wrote, &quot;The universe cannot be readuntil we have learnt the languageand become familiar with the characters in which it is written.It is written in mathematical language,and the letters are triangles, circles and other geometric figures,without which means it is humanly impossibleto comprehend a single word.&quot;
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:不只是科学家们对对称性感兴趣。艺术家也喜欢摆弄对称性。他们与对称性有一些更模糊的关系。这是托马斯•曼在《魔山》中谈到的对称性。他对雪花有这样的描。他说，“他因其有完美的精确度而震撼，发现它死亡的精髓让他想到死亡。”
en:But it&#39;s not just scientists who are interested in symmetry.Artists too love to play around with symmetry.They also have a slightly more ambiguous relationship with it.Here is Thomas Mann talking about symmetry in &quot;The Magic Mountain.&quot;He has a character describing the snowflake,and he says he &quot;shuddered at its perfect precision,found it deathly, the very marrow of death.&quot;
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:但艺术家们想要做的是树立对对称性的期望，然后打破它们。就这一点我找到了一个很好的例子，其实是当我拜访我的同事在日本的黑川纪章教授时发现的。他带我到日光市的寺庙去。就在拍好这张照片后，我们走上楼梯，你们看到的这后面的大门有八根柱子，都有着漂亮的对称性设计。其中七个是完全一样的，而第八个是颠倒过来的。
en:But what artists like to do is to set up expectationsof symmetry and then break them.And a beautiful example of thisI found, actually, when I visited a colleague of minein Japan, Professor Kurokawa.And he took me up to the temples in Nikko.And just after this photo was taken we walked up the stairs.And the gateway you see behindhas eight columns, with beautiful symmetrical designs on them.Seven of them are exactly the same,and the eighth one is turned upside down.
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:我就对黑川纪章教授说：“哇，建筑师们肯定要踢自己了，要是他么发现犯了这么一个错误，把这根柱子弄倒了过来。”他说，“不，不，不。这是一个特意的设计。”他还向我提到了这个可爱的引述，引自日本1 4世纪的《闲置的散文》。其中，散文家写道：“在一切事物中，一致性是不可取的。留下一些不完整的东西会更有趣，而且一致性给人一种没有发展空间的感觉。”即使是建造皇宫时，他们也总是留下一个未完工的地方。
en:And I said to Professor Kurokawa,&quot;Wow, the architects must have really been kicking themselveswhen they realized that they&#39;d made a mistake and put this one upside down.&quot;And he said, &quot;No, no, no. It was a very deliberate act.&quot;And he referred me to this lovely quote from the Japanese&quot;Essays in Idleness&quot; from the 14th century,in which the essayist wrote, &quot;In everything,uniformity is undesirable.Leaving something incomplete makes it interesting,and gives one the feeling that there is room for growth.&quot;Even when building the Imperial Palace,they always leave one place unfinished.
时间： 4:49
zh-cn:但如果我必须选择这世界上的一个建筑，将其扔到一个荒岛上，且我要在那里度过余生，作为一个对对称性痴迷的人，我可能会选择在格拉纳达的阿尔罕布拉。这是一座歌颂对称性的宫殿。最近，我带我的家人——我们进行这种并没有学术气息的数学旅行，我的家人都很喜欢。这是我的儿子塔梅尔。你们可以看到他真的很喜欢我们在阿尔罕布拉的数学之旅。但我想尝试使他变得充实。我认为学校教的数学存在的一个问题就是它没有关注数学是如何被运用于我们所处的这个世界。所以，我想开拓他的眼界，让他知道阿尔罕布拉运用着多少对称性。
en:But if I had to choose one building in the worldto be cast out on a desert island, to live the rest of my life,being an addict of symmetry, I would probably choose the Alhambra in Granada.This is a palace celebrating symmetry.Recently I took my family —we do these rather kind of nerdy mathematical trips, which my family love.This is my son Tamer. You can seehe&#39;s really enjoying our mathematical trip to the Alhambra.But I wanted to try and enrich him.I think one of the problems about school mathematicsis it doesn&#39;t look at how mathematics is embeddedin the world we live in.So, I wanted to open his eyes up tohow much symmetry is running through the Alhambra.
时间： 5:25
zh-cn:你们已经看到了。你一走进去，水中有反射的对称。但是，所有令人兴奋的事情发生在墙壁上。人们否认摩尔艺术家能够用灵魂来绘画。因此，他们探索出一种更加几何化的艺术。那么什么是对称性？阿尔罕布拉以某种方式提出了所有这些问题。什么是对称性？当[那儿]有两面墙时，他们有相同的对称性吗？我们可以说他们是否发现了阿尔罕布拉所有的对称性吗？
en:You see it already. Immediately you go in,the reflective symmetry in the water.But it&#39;s on the walls where all the exciting things are happening.The Moorish artists were denied the possibilityto draw things with souls.So they explored a more geometric art.And so what is symmetry?The Alhambra somehow asks all of these questions.What is symmetry? When [there] are two of these walls,do they have the same symmetries?Can we say whether they discoveredall of the symmetries in the Alhambra?
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:是伽罗瓦研制出了一种语言能够回答一些这样的问题。对伽罗瓦来说，对称性，不同于托马斯曼所说的对称性是一些静态的和死一般的东西。对伽罗瓦来说，所有的对称性都是关于运动的。你能对一个对称性的物体做些什么？用某种方法移动它，让它看起来跟你移动它之前一样？我喜欢把这形容为神奇的假动作。你对一些东西可以做些什么？闭上你的眼睛。我动下它，再把它放回到原处。它看起来和动之前一样。
en:And it was Galois who produced a languageto be able to answer some of these questions.For Galois, symmetry — unlike for Thomas Mann,which was something still and deathly —for Galois, symmetry was all about motion.What can you do to a symmetrical object,move it in some way, so it looks the sameas before you moved it?I like to describe it as the magic trick moves.What can you do to something? You close your eyes.I do something, put it back down again.It looks like it did before it started.
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:那么，例如，阿尔罕布拉的墙壁。我可以把所有的这些瓦片拿起来，把他们放在这个黄色的地方，并把它们旋转九十度，再把他们都放回去，它们非常吻合。如果你再睁开你的眼睛，你不会知道它们被移动过。但正是运动才使对称性在阿尔罕布拉具有特色。但也要创造一种语言来描绘它。数学的力量往往把一样东西变成另一样，把几何变成语言。
en:So, for example, the walls in the Alhambra —I can take all of these tiles, and fix them at the yellow place,rotate them by 90 degrees,put them all back down again and they fit perfectly down there.And if you open your eyes again, you wouldn&#39;t know that they&#39;d moved.But it&#39;s the motion that really characterizes the symmetryinside the Alhambra.But it&#39;s also about producing a language to describe this.And the power of mathematics is oftento change one thing into another, to change geometry into language.
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:因此，我将带你经历，可能强加一些数学的东西给你们，所以撑住自己，强加一些数学的知识让你们了解这种语言是怎么运作的，这让我们能够捕捉到什么是对称性。那让我们把这两个对称物放到这儿。拿这个扭曲了的六角海星来说。我怎么做能让这个海星看起来和原来一样呢？嗯，我把它旋转了六分之一圈，它看起来仍然跟我动过之前一样。我可以把它旋转三分之一圈，或者半圈，或将它恢复到原图，或旋转三分之二圈。第五种对称，我可以把它旋转六分之五圈。这些就是我能对对称物所做的，可以让它看起来跟我动它们之前一样。
en:So I&#39;m going to take you through, perhaps push you a little bit mathematically —so brace yourselves —push you a little bit to understand how this language works,which enables us to capture what is symmetry.So, let&#39;s take these two symmetrical objects here.Let&#39;s take the twisted six-pointed starfish.What can I do to the starfish which makes it look the same?Well, there I rotated it by a sixth of a turn,and still it looks like it did before I started.I could rotate it by a third of a turn,or a half a turn,or put it back down on its image, or two thirds of a turn.And a fifth symmetry, I can rotate it by five sixths of a turn.And those are things that I can do to the symmetrical objectthat make it look like it did before I started.
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:对伽罗瓦来说，实际上还有第六种对称。大家能想到其它什么办法可以让它跟我动它之前一样？我不能翻转它，因为我已经把它扭曲了一些，是吧？这样它没有反射对称了。但我可以做的就是把它放在原处，把它拿起来再把它放下。对伽罗瓦来说，这就像是第零个对称。其实，数字零的发明是一个非常现代化的概念，它是公元七世纪印度人发明的。什么都没有谈论看起来很疯狂。这是同样的概念。这是对称的——所以一切事物都有对称性，把它放在拿起它的地方。
en:Now, for Galois, there was actually a sixth symmetry.Can anybody think what else I could do to thiswhich would leave it like I did before I started?I can&#39;t flip it because I&#39;ve put a little twist on it, haven&#39;t I?It&#39;s got no reflective symmetry.But what I could do is just leave it where it is,pick it up, and put it down again.And for Galois this was like the zeroth symmetry.Actually, the invention of the number zerowas a very modern concept, seventh century A.D., by the Indians.It seems mad to talk about nothing.And this is the same idea. This is a symmetrical —so everything has symmetry, where you just leave it where it is.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:所以这个物体有六种对称。那三角形呢？嗯，我可以把它顺时针旋转三分之一圈或逆时针旋转三分之一圈。但现在有反射对称。。我可以在X轴上翻转它，或在Y轴上，或在Z轴上。五种对称，当然还有第零个对称，我把它拿起来，放回原处。因此，这些物体都有六种对称。现在，我十分相信数学不是旁观者的运动，你必须做一些数学运算才能真正理解它。
en:So, this object has six symmetries.And what about the triangle?Well, I can rotate by a third of a turn clockwiseor a third of a turn anticlockwise.But now this has some reflectional symmetry.I can reflect it in the line through X,or the line through Y,or the line through Z.Five symmetries and then of course the zeroth symmetrywhere I just pick it up and leave it where it is.So both of these objects have six symmetries.Now, I&#39;m a great believer that mathematics is not a spectator sport,and you have to do some mathematicsin order to really understand it.
时间： 8:37
zh-cn:这儿有个小问题问问你们。我将在讲座结束后给一个奖品给那个给出的答案最接近的人。魔方。一个魔方有多少种对称？有多少种方法可以在动了这个物体，且把它放下后它仍然看起来像一个立方体？好吗？我希望随着讲座的继续，你们可以考虑下这个问题，数数它有多少种对称。会有一个奖品在讲座结束后那个给出的答案最接近的人。
en:So here is a little question for you.And I&#39;m going to give a prize at the end of my talkfor the person who gets closest to the answer.The Rubik&#39;s Cube.How many symmetries does a Rubik&#39;s Cube have?How many things can I do to this objectand put it down so it still looks like a cube?Okay? So I want you to think about that problem as we go on,and count how many symmetries there are.And there will be a prize for the person who gets closest at the end.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:让我们回到这两个物体的对称性上。伽罗瓦意识到这不仅仅是个体的对称性，而是个体之间如何相互作用才真正赋予了一个物体具有对称性的特点。如果我做一个神奇的假动作，然后再做一个，两个合并起来就是第三个神奇的假动作。这里我们了解到伽罗瓦开始开发一种语言来研究看不见的东西所具有的内在含义，以及物理物体中存在的对称性的抽象的概念。例如，如果我把海星旋转六分之一圈，然后再转三分之一圈会，结果会怎样？
en:But let&#39;s go back down to symmetries that I got for these two objects.What Galois realized: it isn&#39;t just the individual symmetries,but how they interact with each otherwhich really characterizes the symmetry of an object.If I do one magic trick move followed by another,the combination is a third magic trick move.And here we see Galois starting to developa language to see the substanceof the things unseen, the sort of abstract ideaof the symmetry underlying this physical object.For example, what if I turn the starfishby a sixth of a turn,and then a third of a turn?
时间： 9:36
zh-cn:所以我给它们取了名字。大写的字母A、B、C、D、E、F，这些名字旋转的代号。例如B，旋转小黄点，它位于海星上的B处，诸如此类。那么，如果我旋转B，转六分之一圈，其次是C，转三分之一圈？嗯，让我们开始。六分之一圈，接着是三分之一圈，合并后的效果就像我刚刚把它一次旋转了半圈一样。那这个小表格记载着这些对称的代数是怎么运作的。我将一个接一个的旋转，结果就是D旋转了半圈。如果我按其他顺序旋转呢？会有什么不同吗？让我们来看看。让我们先旋转三分之一圈，然后旋转六分之一圈。当然，没有什么差别。结果仍然是半圈。
en:So I&#39;ve given names. The capital letters, A, B, C, D, E, F,are the names for the rotations.B, for example, rotates the little yellow dotto the B on the starfish. And so on.So what if I do B, which is a sixth of a turn,followed by C, which is a third of a turn?Well let&#39;s do that. A sixth of a turn,followed by a third of a turn,the combined effect is as if I had just rotated it by half a turn in one go.So the little table here recordshow the algebra of these symmetries work.I do one followed by another, the answer isit&#39;s rotation D, half a turn.What I if I did it in the other order? Would it make any difference?Let&#39;s see. Let&#39;s do the third of the turn first, and then the sixth of a turn.Of course, it doesn&#39;t make any difference.It still ends up at half a turn.
时间：10:21
zh-cn:某种对称方式是通过相互作用得到的。但这与三角形的对称性是完全不同的。让我们看看如果对三角形一个接一个的进行两个对称旋转会怎样。让我们逆时针旋转三分之一圈，然后在X轴上翻转。嗯，合并后的效果就像我刚刚以Z轴翻转开始一样。现在，让我们按不同的顺序来一次。我们先在X轴上翻转，然后逆时针旋转三分之一圈。合并后的效果是三角形停的地方完全不同。就像是在Y轴上翻转了一样。
en:And there is some symmetry here in the way the symmetries interact with each other.But this is completely different to the symmetries of the triangle.Let&#39;s see what happens if we do two symmetrieswith the triangle, one after the other.Let&#39;s do a rotation by a third of a turn anticlockwise,and reflect in the line through X.Well, the combined effect is as if I had just done the reflection in the line through Zto start with.Now, let&#39;s do it in a different order.Let&#39;s do the reflection in X first,followed by the rotation by a third of a turn anticlockwise.The combined effect, the triangle ends up somewhere completely different.It&#39;s as if it was reflected in the line through Y.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:现在看来这与你操作它的顺序有关。这使我们能够区分为什么这些物体的对称性都有六个。那么，为什么我们不能说它们有相同的对称性呢？但对称相互作用的方式使我们——我们现在已经有一种语言来区分为什么这些对称在根本上是不同的。你也可以尝试一下，当你去酒吧时，以后去的时候。拿一个啤酒垫，把它旋转四分之一圈，然后翻转它。然后再按其它顺序做，酒垫上的图将是朝反方向面对你的。
en:Now it matters what order you do the operations in.And this enables us to distinguishwhy the symmetries of these objects —they both have six symmetries. So why shouldn&#39;t we saythey have the same symmetries?But the way the symmetries interactenable us — we&#39;ve now got a languageto distinguish why these symmetries are fundamentally different.And you can try this when you go down to the pub, later on.Take a beer mat and rotate it by a quarter of a turn,then flip it. And then do it in the other order,and the picture will be facing in the opposite direction.
时间：11:28
zh-cn:伽罗瓦为这些表格以及对称性如何相互作用研究出了一些定律。这像一个小数独表。你看不到任何重复的对称出现在任何一栏或一行中。通过运用那些定律，他可以说事实上只有两个物体有六个对称。而且这六个对称将和三角形的对称,或六角海星的对称是一样的。我觉得这是一个惊人的发展。它几乎是为了对称而研制的数的概念。在这前面，我请一、二、三个人坐在一、二、三把椅子上。坐在椅子上的人都不一样，但是数字，数字的抽象的观念，都是一样的。
en:Now, Galois produced some laws for how these tables — how symmetries interact.It&#39;s almost like little Sudoku tables.You don&#39;t see any symmetry twicein any row or column.And, using those rules, he was able to saythat there are in fact only two objectswith six symmetries.And they&#39;ll be the same as the symmetries of the triangle,or the symmetries of the six-pointed starfish.I think this is an amazing development.It&#39;s almost like the concept of number being developed for symmetry.In the front here, I&#39;ve got one, two, three peoplesitting on one, two, three chairs.The people and the chairs are very different,but the number, the abstract idea of the number, is the same.
时间：12:07
zh-cn:现在我们可以看到这个：我们回到阿尔罕布拉的墙壁。这有两面很不一样的墙壁，很不相同的几何图片。但是，利用伽罗瓦的语言，我们可以知道这些东西含有的抽象的对称实际上是相同的。例如，让我们把这面漂亮的墙和三角形稍微扭曲一下。你可以把它们旋转六分之一圈，如果忽略他们的颜色。我们不是在匹配颜色。但在匹配形状，如果我把他们旋转六分之一圈，围绕着所有三角形交汇的一点旋转。三角形的中心会怎么样？我可以围绕着三角形的中心把他们旋转三分之一圈，那么一切就都匹配上了。这儿有个有趣的地方，沿着边的一半我可以把它旋转180度。那么所有的瓦片又重新匹配了。所以，沿着边的一半旋转，那么他们都能匹配上。
en:And we can see this now: we go back to the walls in the Alhambra.Here are two very different walls,very different geometric pictures.But, using the language of Galois,we can understand that the underlying abstract symmetries of these thingsare actually the same.For example, let&#39;s take this beautiful wallwith the triangles with a little twist on them.You can rotate them by a sixth of a turnif you ignore the colors. We&#39;re not matching up the colors.But the shapes match up if I rotate by a sixth of a turnaround the point where all the triangles meet.What about the center of a triangle? I can rotateby a third of a turn around the center of the triangle,and everything matches up.And then there is an interesting place halfway along an edge,where I can rotate by 180 degrees.And all the tiles match up again.So rotate along halfway along the edge, and they all match up.
时间：12:52
zh-cn:现在，让我们移动阿尔罕布拉的一面外观非常不一样的墙。我们在这儿发现同样的对称性和同样的相互作用。那么是转了六分之一转。转了三分之一圈时第Z片交汇。旋转半圈时离六角星交汇还有一半。尽管这些墙壁看起来非常不同，伽罗瓦研制出一种语言说，其实这些东西所具有的对称性是完全相同的。这个对称性我们称之为6-3-2。
en:Now, let&#39;s move to the very different-looking wall in the Alhambra.And we find the same symmetries here, and the same interaction.So, there was a sixth of a turn. A third of a turn where the Z pieces meet.And the half a turn is halfway between the six pointed stars.And although these walls look very different,Galois has produced a language to saythat in fact the symmetries underlying these are exactly the same.And it&#39;s a symmetry we call 6-3-2.
时间：13:19
zh-cn:另一个阿尔罕布拉的例子。这是一面墙、天花板和地板。它们都看起来都非常不一样。但是，这种语言让我们可以说它们是相同的对称的抽象物体，我们称之为4-4-2。这与足球毫无关系，而是因为他们都有两个你可以旋转四分之一圈和二分之一圈的地方。
en:Here is another example in the Alhambra.This is a wall, a ceiling, and a floor.They all look very different. But this language allows us to saythat they are representations of the same symmetrical abstract object,which we call 4-4-2. Nothing to do with football,but because of the fact that there are two places where you can rotateby a quarter of a turn, and one by half a turn.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:现在，这种语言的力量更加强大，因为伽罗瓦可能会说，“摩尔艺术家发现了阿尔罕布拉墙上所有可能对称的地方了吗？”结果是他们几乎都发现了。你可以用伽罗瓦的语言来证明，实际上只有17种可以在阿尔罕布拉的墙上得到的不同的对称。而且他们，如果你尝试研制出第18面不同的墙壁，这面墙肯定与17种对称中的一种对称是相同的。
en:Now, this power of the language is even more,because Galois can say,&quot;Did the Moorish artists discover all of the possible symmetrieson the walls in the Alhambra?&quot;And it turns out they almost did.You can prove, using Galois&#39; language,there are actually only 17different symmetries that you can do in the walls in the Alhambra.And they, if you try to produce a different wall with this 18th one,it will have to have the same symmetries as one of these 17.
时间：14:07
zh-cn:但这些都是我们可以看到的。而伽罗瓦的数学语言的力量也让我们能在看不见的世界里创造对称的物体，超越二维、三维，全都向四维或五维或无穷维空间发展。而这正是我在研究的东西。我创建数学对象和对称物体，通过运用伽罗瓦的语言在非常高维的空间里创建。因此，我认为这是个对于看不见的东西的很好的例子，，数学语言的力量让你可以创建出来。
en:But these are things that we can see.And the power of Galois&#39; mathematical languageis it also allows us to createsymmetrical objects in the unseen world,beyond the two-dimensional, three-dimensional,all the way through to the four- or five- or infinite-dimensional space.And that&#39;s where I work. I createmathematical objects, symmetrical objects,using Galois&#39; language,in very high dimensional spaces.So I think it&#39;s a great example of things unseen,which the power of mathematical language allows you to create.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:因此，像伽罗瓦一样，我昨晚彻夜未眠为你们建立了一个新的数学对称物。我这儿有一张它的照片。但是，可惜的是它不是一张真正的照片。我可以把我的图板放在这边吗？很好，非常好。这儿。可惜的是我无法向你们展示这个对称物的照片。但这儿有语言能描绘其对称性怎么相互作用的。
en:So, like Galois, I stayed up all last nightcreating a new mathematical symmetrical object for you,and I&#39;ve got a picture of it here.Well, unfortunately it isn&#39;t really a picture. If I could have my boardat the side here, great, excellent.Here we are. Unfortunately, I can&#39;t show youa picture of this symmetrical object.But here is the language which describeshow the symmetries interact.
时间：14:57
zh-cn:现在这个新的对称物还没有名字。就像人们给东西命名一样，给月球上的陨石坑命名，或给动物新品种命名一样。所以我想给你们机会来给新的对称物命名，以前没有给它取过名字。而且这个东西——物种会逐渐消失，月球可能会被陨石撞击并发生爆炸——但是这个数学物体将长存于世。它将使你不朽。为了赢得这个对称物，你所要做的就是回答我在一开始问的问题。一个魔方有多少种对称呢？
en:Now, this new symmetrical objectdoes not have a name yet.Now, people like getting their names on things,on craters on the moonor new species of animals.So I&#39;m going to give you the chance to get your name on a new symmetrical objectwhich hasn&#39;t been named before.And this thing — species die away,and moons kind of get hit by meteors and explode —but this mathematical object will live forever.It will make you immortal.In order to win this symmetrical object,what you have to do is to answer the question I asked you at the beginning.How many symmetries does a Rubik&#39;s Cube have?
时间：15:32
zh-cn:好吧，我来给你们整理一下。而不是大家都喊出来，我想让你们数数有多少位数字在那个答案里。好吗？如果你得出的结果是一个阶乘，那么你要扩大它的阶乘。好了，现在如果你想参与，我希望你能站起来，好吗？如果你认为你已经估计出了它有多少位数字，好的——我们在这儿已经有了一位竞争者——如果你们都继续坐着，那么他就自动赢了。好的。很好。我们已经有四位、五位、六位。很好。太好了。让我们继续。好了。
en:Okay, I&#39;m going to sort you out.Rather than you all shouting out, I want you to count how many digits there arein that number. Okay?If you&#39;ve got it as a factorial, you&#39;ve got to expand the factorials.Okay, now if you want to play,I want you to stand up, okay?If you think you&#39;ve got an estimate for how many digits,right — we&#39;ve already got one competitor here.If you all stay down he wins it automatically.Okay. Excellent. So we&#39;ve got four here, five, six.Great. Excellent. That should get us going. All right.
时间：16:01
zh-cn:你们中有人的答案是等于或少于五位数的，那你得坐下了。因为你们估计少了。五位数或更少的。那么，如果你的答案是几万的话，你得坐下。六十或六十多位数的，你必须坐下。你估计得多了。二十位数或二十位以下的，坐下。你的答案是几位数？两个？那你早就该坐下了。（众笑）让我们再来问问其他人，谁估计的是二十位的，请再次站起来，好吗？如果我告诉你是二十位或二十位以下，请站起来。因为这一个。我想应该有一些人。谁是最后一个做下去的。
en:Anybody with five or less digits, you&#39;ve got to sit down,because you&#39;ve underestimated.Five or less digits. So, if you&#39;re in the tens of thousands you&#39;ve got to sit down.60 digits or more, you&#39;ve got to sit down.You&#39;ve overestimated.20 digits or less, sit down.How many digits are there in your number?Two? So you should have sat down earlier.(Laughter)Let&#39;s have the other ones, who sat down during the 20, up again. Okay?If I told you 20 or less, stand up.Because this one. I think there were a few here.The people who just last sat down.
时间：16:38
zh-cn:好的，你的答案是多少位数？（笑）21。好的，很好。你的是多少位？18。那么是这位女士赢了。21是最接近的。实际上，魔方对称种数的答案有25位数字。那么现在我需要给这个物体命名。嗯，你叫什么名字？我需要你的姓氏。对称的物体一般——为我拼写一下。G-H-E-Z不，SO2已经用过了，其实，在数学语言里。你不能用那个名字。Ghez，就是这个名字啦。这是你的新的对称物。你现在是不朽的了。（鼓掌）
en:Okay, how many digits do you have in your number?(Laughs)21. Okay good. How many do you have in yours?18. So it goes to this lady here.21 is the closest.It actually has — the number of symmetries in the Rubik&#39;s cubehas 25 digits.So now I need to name this object.So, what is your name?I need your surname. Symmetrical objects generally —spell it for me.G-H-E-ZNo, SO2 has already been used, actually,in the mathematical language. So you can&#39;t have that one.So Ghez, there we go. That&#39;s your new symmetrical object.You are now immortal.(Applause)
时间：17:27
zh-cn:而且，如果你想用你自己的对称物，我有一个项目，是为在瓜地马拉的慈善筹钱的，我可以熬夜为你发明一个物体，让你可以为慈善捐款来帮助瓜地马拉的孩子们，让他们能接受教育。我认为，作为一个数学家，给我动力的是那些看不到的东西，是我们还未发现的东西。它们都是悬而未决的问题，这使数学成为一个鲜活的主题。我常常想起引自日本《闲置的散文》中的这句话：“在一切事物中，一致性是不可取的。留下一些不完整的东西会更有趣，一致性并且给人一种没有发展空间的感觉。”谢谢。（鼓掌）
en:And if you&#39;d like your own symmetrical object,I have a project raising money for a charity in Guatemala,where I will stay up all night and devise an object for you,for a donation to this charity to help kids get into education in Guatemala.And I think what drives me, as a mathematician,are those things which are not seen, the things that we haven&#39;t discovered.It&#39;s all the unanswered questions which make mathematics a living subject.And I will always come back to this quote from the Japanese &quot;Essays in Idleness&quot;:&quot;In everything, uniformity is undesirable.Leaving something incomplete makes it interesting,and gives one the feeling that there is room for growth.&quot; Thank you.(Applause)
