时间： 0:11
zh-cn:25年以前我读过一篇文章，说有一天注射器将会成为艾滋病传播的和感染的最主要途径绝不可如此。所以我想略尽微薄之力。
en:Twenty-five-and-a-quarter years ago I reada newspaper article which saidthat one day syringes would beone of the major causes of the spread of AIDS,the transmission of AIDS.I thought this was unacceptable. So I decided to do something about it.
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:不幸的是，这件事已成为现实。众所周知，疟疾每年会导致约一百万人死亡。岂料因重复使用注射器而导致的死亡人数已超过了疟疾，每年它会杀死130万人。照片里面的这个小女孩和她的朋友是我在德里的孤儿院碰到的因为使用已用过的注射器而感染了艾滋病。更为不幸的是当他们的父母发现之后他们的父母就带他们去医生那里做检查。确认之后，就把他们遗弃了最后他们就成了孤儿。
en:Sadly, it&#39;s come true. Malaria, as we all know,kills approximately one million people a year.The reuse of syringes now exceeds thatand kills 1.3 million people a year.This young girl and her friendthat I met in an orphanage in Delhiwere HIV positive from a syringe.And what was so sad about this particular storywas that once their parents had found out —and don&#39;t forget, their parents took them to the doctor —the parents threw them out on the street.And hence they ended up in an orphanage.
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:这样的情况无论是在熟练还是不熟练的护士身上都会发生盲目的给人注射因为注射很贵所以人们通常都很相信医生仅次于相信上帝，我经常听别人说医生们总是对的，但是，事实上，他们不总是对的正如你们所料，这种问题于HIV病毒盛行的地方的严重性。
en:And it comes from situations like this whereyou have either skilled or unskilled practitioners,blindly giving an injection to someone.And the injection is so valuable,that the people basically trustthe doctor, being second to God, which I&#39;ve heard many times,to do the right thing. But in fact they&#39;re not.And you can understand, obviously, the transmission problembetween people in high-virus areas.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:现在看一下我们在印度的公立医院里面拍的这个小视频，于半小时以内托盘里面一共有42剂药但是仅仅使用了2支注射器在半个小时里面，再也没有打开一支新的注射器开始用两个最后还是那两个看，一个护士走到托盘这里这是他们放注射器的地方把刚刚用过的注射器扔到里面走到托盘这里，拿起来接着用你想想这个问题有多么严重事实上，仅仅在印度，62%的注射根本就不安全。
en:This video we took undercover,which shows you, over a half an hour period,a tray of medicines of 42 vials,which are being delivered with only 2 syringes in a public hospital in India.And over the course of half an hour, not one syringewas filmed being unwrapped.They started with two and they ended with two.And you&#39;ll see, just now, a nurse coming back to the tray,which is their sort of modular station,and dropping the syringe she&#39;s just usedback in the tray for it to be picked up and used again.So you can imagine the scale of this problem.And in fact in India alone, 62 percentof all injections givenare unsafe.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:巴基斯坦的这些小孩根本不上学他们比较“幸运”。他们找到了工作工作就是在医院后面到处转拾起用过的注射器洗干净，然后洗的时候尤其是捡这些注射器的时候经常会划伤流血。然后冲洗包装，且拿到市场上面去卖因为这样可以挣更多的钱跟一个消毒的注射器相比的话。太怪了这个照片比较有意思。当我们跟他们爸爸聊天的时候他拿起一个注射器，刺破了他的手指不知道你们有没有看到注射器末端的的那滴血然后他打开一盒火柴点着，烧掉了从他指头尖往下滴的那滴血信誓旦旦地保证这样做就能阻止HIV的传播
en:These kids in Pakistan don&#39;t go to school.They are lucky. They already have a job.And that job is that they go around and pick up syringesfrom the back of hospitals,wash them, and in the course of this,obviously picking them up they injure themselves.And then they repackage them and sell them out on marketsfor literally more moneythan a sterile syringe in the first place, which is quite bizarre.In an interesting photo, their father, while we were talking to him,picked up a syringe and pricked his finger —I don&#39;t know whether you can see the drop of blood on the end —and immediately whipped out a box of matches,lit one, and burned the blood off the end of his finger,giving me full assurancethat that was the way that you stopped the transmission of HIV.
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:在中国，注射器的回收是个大问题注射器被成堆的堆在这里，这个图里面能看出来然后手工按照注射器大小分类然后分好类，弄在一起所以，注射器的回收和再利用在中国是个很大的问题我还在印度尼西亚发现了一个有趣的事在印度尼西亚的学校里边通常学校操场旁边会有卖玩具的这里面这个卖玩具的他们通常也卖注射器跟你猜的差不多他们是从拾荒者那里弄来的这些孩子课间的时候拿这些注射器当水枪玩他们总是灌上水互相喷着玩。挺可爱，也挺天真他们玩的也很高兴但是有的时候他们也用注射器喝水尤其是课间休息的时候，他们经常这样，因为天很热他们对着嘴用水枪喷水这些水枪里面有的时候会有血迹
en:In China, recycling is a major issue.And they are collected en mass — you can see the scale of it here —and sorted out, by hand, back into the right sizes,and then put back out on the street.So recycling and reuseare the major issues here.But there was one interesting anecdote that I found in Indonesia.In all schools in Indonesia,there is usually a toy seller in the playground.The toy seller, in this case,had syringes, which they usually do,next door to the diggers, which is obviouslywhat you would expect.And they use them, in the breaks, for water pistols.They squirt them at each other, which is lovely and innocent.And they are having great fun.But they also drink from themwhile they&#39;re in their breaks, because it&#39;s hot.And they squirt the water into their mouths.And these are used with traces of blood visible.
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:所以我们需要一种更好的注射器，让大家都知道怎么正确使用注射器我想，能不能拍一下这个这就是我的发明我自己想出来的恩，很普通的一个注射器。使用跟普通的注射器完全一样。有14个我们给了许可证的企业里面都能生产。你注射完然后扔到一边如果有人想重新使用这个注射器的话这个注射器就会自锁，再也没法用了非常非常简单。谢谢大家。（掌声）这种新型注射器与普通的注射器成本完全一样对比一下，大约仅相当于一瓶可口可乐价钱的十分之一。同时呢，如果用这种注射器，那种一个注射器用二三十次的事情就再也不会发生了。
en:So we need a better product. And we need better information.And I think, if I can just borrow this camera,I was going to show you my invention,which I came up with.So, it&#39;s a normal-looking syringe.You load it up in the normal way. This is madeon existing equipment in 14 factories that we license.You give the injection and then put it down.If someone then tries to reuse it,it locks and breaks afterwards.It&#39;s very, very simple. Thank you.(Applause)And it costs the same as a normal syringe.And in comparison, a Coca-Colais 10 times the price.And that will stop reusing a syringe 20 or 30 times.
时间： 4:22
zh-cn:我在印度做了很多免费的宣传我们竭尽全力把这种信息告诉人们这样，小孩子就再也不干这种傻事了。谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:And I have an information charitywhich has done huge scale amount of work in India.And we&#39;re very proud of giving information to people,so that little kids like this don&#39;t do stupid things.Thank you very much.(Applause)
