时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我研究的是犯罪和恐怖主义的未来。坦白地说，我感到害怕。我对我在研究中了解到的事情感到害怕。我真诚地希望自己能够相信科技可以带给我们对我们的承诺中的科技乌托邦但是，你们看，我曾经度过了一段与执法有关的职业生涯，而这让我对事物的看法有了新的认识。我曾经做过巡街警察，卧底侦探，反恐战略师，也曾经在全球超过70个国家工作过。我不得不经历了比我应该遇到的更多的暴力和社会阴暗面，而正是这些影响了我的观点。我的工作会与罪犯和恐怖分子打交道这实际上是非常有教育意义的。他们教会了我很多，而我希望可以与你们分享一些我所观察到的东西。
en:I study the futureof crime and terrorism,and frankly, I&#39;m afraid.I&#39;m afraid by what I see.I sincerely want to believethat technology can bring usthe techno-utopia that we&#39;ve been promised,but, you see,I&#39;ve spent a career in law enforcement,and that&#39;s informed my perspective on things.I&#39;ve been a street police officer,an undercover investigator,a counter-terrorism strategist,and I&#39;ve worked in more than 70 countriesaround the world.I&#39;ve had to see more than my fair shareof violence and the darker underbelly of society,and that&#39;s informed my opinions.My work with criminals and terroristshas actually been highly educational.They have taught me a lot, and I&#39;d like to be ableto share some of these observations with you.
时间： 1:07
zh-cn:今天我将展现给你们那些让我们感到惊奇的我们所爱的科技的另一面如果科技由TDE社区掌控那么它无疑是可以给我们的世界带来巨大改变的不可思议的工具，但是当科技被握于人肉炸弹袭击者的手中，我们的未来就非常不一样了。
en:Today I&#39;m going to show you the flip sideof all those technologies that we marvel at,the ones that we love.In the hands of the TED community,these are awesome tools which will bring aboutgreat change for our world,but in the hands of suicide bombers,the future can look quite different.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:当我还是一个年轻的巡逻警察时，我便开始观察科技以及罪犯们利用科技的方式。在那个时代，这就是科技的高度了。你们尽管笑吧，所有我对付过的毒贩和帮派成员都远比我认识的任何一位警察更早地拥有了其中一样。
en:I started observingtechnology and how criminals were using itas a young patrol officer.In those days, this was the height of technology.Laugh though you will,all the drug dealers and gang memberswith whom I dealt had one of theselong before any police officer I knew did.
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:20年过去了，罪犯们仍然在使用移动电话。但与此同时，他们也在建造属于他们自己的移动电话网络，比如这一个，就已经被贩毒团伙部署在了墨西哥全部的31个州之中。他们还拥有一套全国性的加密的无线电通信系统。大家可以认真想想。想想投注于这个系统中的创造革新。想想构建这个系统所需的基础设施。然后再想想这个：为什么我在旧金山收不到手机信号呢？（笑声）这怎么可能呢？（笑声）这完全没有道理啊。（掌声）
en:Twenty years later, criminals are still usingmobile phones, but they&#39;re also buildingtheir own mobile phone networks,like this one, which has been deployedin all 31 states of Mexico by the narcos.They have a national encryptedradio communications system.Think about that.Think about the innovation that went into that.Think about the infrastructure to build it.And then think about this:Why can&#39;t I get a cell phone signal in San Francisco? (Laughter)How is this possible? (Laughter) It makes no sense. (Applause)
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:我们一直低估了罪犯和恐怖分子能做到的事情。科技已经让我们的世界越来越开放。当然，在大多数情况下，这是好事，但是这个开放性也可能会造成始料未及的后果。
en:We consistently underestimatewhat criminals and terrorists can do.Technology has made our worldincreasingly open, and for the most part,that&#39;s great, but all of this opennessmay have unintended consequences.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:想想看2008年发生在孟买的恐怖袭击吧。那些实施了那次恐怖袭击的人都装备着AK-47s，炸药和手榴弹。他们把这些手榴弹投向了那些正在咖啡馆里就餐和下班后正在等着赶火车回家的无辜的平民。但是在恐怖活动当中，重型火炮早已屡见不鲜。枪支和炸弹更是毫无新意了。这次恐怖袭击的特殊之处在于恐怖分子利用现代信息通信技术查明额外的受害者的身份并且屠杀他们的方式。这些袭击者配备了移动电话。他们拥有黑莓手机。他们可以使用卫星地图。他们拥有卫星电话，甚至夜视眼镜。但是他们最大的创新之处也许是这个：我们都在电视上或者新闻里看到过像这样的图片。这是一个操控中心。这些恐怖分子建立了完全属于他们自己的跨越巴基斯坦边境的操控中心在那里，他们可以监控英国广播公司，半岛电视台，美国有线电视，以及印度当地的地方电台。他们还可以通过监测网络和社会化媒体来监控他们的袭击的进展以及他们已经屠杀了多少人他们实时进行着一切行动。
en:Consider the 2008 terrorist attack on Mumbai.The men that carried that attack out were armedwith AK-47s, explosives and hand grenades.They threw these hand grenadesat innocent people as they sat eating in cafesand waited to catch trains on their way home from work.But heavy artillery is nothing new in terrorist operations.Guns and bombs are nothing new.What was different this timeis the way that the terrorists usedmodern information communications technologiesto locate additional victims and slaughter them.They were armed with mobile phones.They had BlackBerries.They had access to satellite imagery.They had satellite phones, and they even had night vision goggles.But perhaps their greatest innovation was this.We&#39;ve all seen pictures like thison television and in the news. This is an operations center.And the terrorists built their very own op centeracross the border in Pakistan,where they monitored the BBC,al Jazeera, CNN and Indian local stations.They also monitored the Internet and social mediato monitor the progress of their attacksand how many people they had killed.They did all of this in real time.
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:恐怖分子在操控中心上的创新为他们提供了前所未有的现场情景感知以及远胜过警察和政府的战术优势他们利用它做了什么呢？他们利用它发挥了重大的作用。
en:The innovation of the terrorist operations centergave terrorists unparalleled situational awarenessand tactical advantage over the policeand over the government.What did they do with this?They used it to great effect.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:在60个小时的恐怖袭击过程中，这些恐怖分子曾一度闯入一间又一间的房间，试图寻找更多的受害者。他们在酒店的顶层偶然发现一间套房，接着他们踢开了房门，而且找到了一个正躲在床边的男人。他们问这个男人：“你是谁，你在这里干什么？”这个男人回答道：“我只是一名无辜的学校老师。”当然，这些恐怖分子非常清楚印度的学校老师不可能住得起泰姬玛哈酒店的套房。他们捡起了他的身份证件，并且打电话将他的名字告知了恐怖活动操控中心，而操控中心的恐怖分子在谷歌上搜索了他的名字，找到了一张照片，然后把电话打回给在套房现场的恐怖分子，并且问他们：你们的人质是不是身材壮硕？他的前额是不是秃顶？他是不是戴着眼镜？”“没错！”现场的恐怖分子回答道。操控中心找到了他，并且对他的身份进行了匹配确认。他的确不是学校老师。事实上，他是印度财富排名第二的商人，而在发现了这一信息之后，操控中心给孟买现场的恐怖分子下了一道命令。（“杀了他。”）
en:At one point during the 60-hour siege,the terrorists were going room to roomtrying to find additional victims.They came upon a suite on the top floorof the hotel, and they kicked down the doorand they found a man hiding by his bed.And they said to him, &quot;Who are you,and what are you doing here?&quot;And the man replied,&quot;I&#39;m just an innocent schoolteacher.&quot;Of course, the terrorists knewthat no Indian schoolteacher stays at a suite in the Taj.They picked up his identification,and they phoned his name in to the terrorist war room,where the terrorist war room Googled him,and found a picture and called their operativeson the ground and said,&quot;Your hostage, is he heavyset?Is he bald in front? Does he wear glasses?&quot;&quot;Yes, yes, yes,&quot; came the answers.The op center had found him and they had a match.He was not a schoolteacher.He was the second-wealthiest businessman in India,and after discovering this information,the terrorist war room gave the orderto the terrorists on the ground in Mumbai.(&quot;Kill him.&quot;)
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:我们都为我们在Facebook上的隐私设置感到烦恼，但是问题的实际情况在于，我们的坦率可能会被用来伤害我们自己。恐怖分子正在这样做。一个搜索引擎可以决定谁可以活着，而谁必须死。这就是我们所生活的世界。
en:We all worry about our privacy settingson Facebook,but the fact of the matter is,our openness can be used against us.Terrorists are doing this.A search engine can determinewho shall live and who shall die.This is the world that we live in.
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:在孟买恐怖袭击的过程中，恐怖分子是如此依赖科技以至于有几个目击证人曾提到当恐怖分子用一只手射杀人质的时候，他们还在用另一只手检查他们的移动电话上的信息。最终，共有300人受了重伤，而超过172位男子，女子和小孩，在那一天失去了生命。
en:During the Mumbai siege,terrorists were so dependent on technologythat several witnesses reported thatas the terrorists were shooting hostages with one hand,they were checking their mobile phone messagesin the very other hand.In the end, 300 people were gravely woundedand over 172 men, women and childrenlost their lives that day.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:让我们想一想究竟发生了什么。在孟买的60个小时的恐怖袭击中，不仅仅装备着武器，更装备着科技的10个恐怖分子，能够使一座容纳了2000万人的城市陷入停滞。10个人使2000万人陷入停滞，并将这份停滞传染至世界各国。这就是激进分子利用公开性所能做到的事。
en:Think about what happened.During this 60-hour siege on Mumbai,10 men armed not just with weapons,but with technology,were able to bring a city of 20 million peopleto a standstill.Ten people brought 20 million peopleto a standstill, and this traveled around the world.This is what radicals can do with openness.
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:这件事发生在大约4年之前。那么如今恐怖分子能够利用我们所拥有的现有科技做些什么呢？他们未来又会做些什么？一个人通过自己的行为影响很多人的能力正在呈指数级地增长，它既为正义而蓬勃，也为邪恶而蔓延。
en:This was done nearly four years ago.What could terrorists do todaywith the technologies available that we have?What will they do tomorrow?The ability of one to affect manyis scaling exponentially,and it&#39;s scaling for good and it&#39;s scaling for evil.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:尽管它并不仅仅关于恐怖主义。这里也存在着一个犯罪领域的巨大的范式转变。你们看，你们现在也能进行更多的犯罪活动了。很久以前，罪犯的犯罪工具只有刀和枪。之后，罪犯转而抢劫火车。你能在一列火车上抢劫200个人，这是一个极大的革新。随着历史的前进，网络让事情更具规模化。实际上，你们中的很多人将会牢牢记住最近索尼公司的PlayStation网络遭遇黑客入侵的事件。在那次事件中，超过1亿用户的信息资料被劫取了。大家可以想一想。在人类漫长的历史中，何曾出现过1个人抢劫1亿人的可能性？
en:It&#39;s not just about terrorism, though.There&#39;s also been a big paradigm shift in crime.You see, you can now commit more crime as well.In the old days, it was a knife and a gun.Then criminals moved to robbing trains.You could rob 200 people on a train, a great innovation.Moving forward, the Internetallowed things to scale even more.In fact, many of you will rememberthe recent Sony PlayStation hack.In that incident, over 100 million people were robbed.Think about that.When in the history of humanityhas it ever been possible for one personto rob 100 million?
时间： 7:50
zh-cn:当然，不单单是偷取东西。还有很多的科技途径可供罪犯开发。你们中的很多人将会铭记这段在最近的TED里播放的非常可爱的视频，然而不是所有的四轴飞行器群都如此美好可爱。他们并非都有鼓槌。其中有一些可能被安装了高清摄像头而且能针对反对者进行反侦察伪装，或者，正如在这段简短的电影魔法中展现的，四轴飞行器可以被装置上火器，以及自动武器。当小机器人为你弹奏音乐时，他们的确很可爱。但是当它们蜂拥而至，在街区追逐你并不停地向你射击时，可就没那么可爱了。
en:Of course, it&#39;s not just about stealing things.There are other avenues of technologythat criminals can exploit.Many of you will remember this super cute videofrom the last TED,but not all quadcopter swarms are so nice and cute.They don&#39;t all have drumsticks.Some can be armed with HD camerasand do countersurveillance on protesters,or, as in this little bit of movie magic,quadcopters can be loaded with firearmsand automatic weapons.Little robots are cute when they play music to you.When they swarm and chase you down the blockto shoot you, a little bit less so.
时间： 8:32
zh-cn:当然，罪犯和恐怖分子并非最先将武器安置在机器人身上。我们都知道这从何开始。但是，他们适应得非常快。最近，美国联邦调查局逮捕了一位潜于美国的基地组织成员，他正计划利用这些远程遥控的无人驾驶飞机携带C4炸药飞入美国的政府大楼。顺便提一下，它们的飞行时速超过600英里。
en:Of course, criminals and terrorists weren&#39;t the firstto give guns to robots. We know where that started.But they&#39;re adapting quickly.Recently, the FBI arrestedan al Qaeda affiliate in the United States,who was planning on using these remote-controlleddrone aircraft to fly C4 explosivesinto government buildings in the United States.By the way, these travel at over 600 miles an hour.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:每当一项新的科技被介绍引进，罪犯就开始开发利用它。我们都看过3D打印机，我们都知道利用这种打印机，我们可以通过从塑料到巧克力，到金属，甚至混凝土等多种材料进行打印。实际上，凭借极高的精度，我在不久前的一天制造了一只非常可爱的小鸭子。但是我追问自己，对于那些将炸弹捆绑在自己的胸前，然后让自己爆炸的恐怖分子来说，他们可能会如何使用3D打印机？
en:Every time a new technology is being introduced,criminals are there to exploit it.We&#39;ve all seen 3D printers.We know with them that you can printin many materials ranging from plasticto chocolate to metal and even concrete.With great precisionI actually was able to make thisjust the other day, a very cute little ducky.But I wonder to myself,for those people that strap bombs to their chestsand blow themselves up,how might they use 3D printers?
时间： 9:34
zh-cn:有可能像这样。你们看，如果你们能够用金属打印，你们就能打印出这其中的一个，而且事实上，你们也能打印出这其中的一个。据我所知，英国制定了一些非常严厉的关于火器的法律。你们再也不需要将枪带入英国了。你们只需要带一台3D打印机当你们在这里之后打印一支枪，当然，还有子弹夹。
en:Perhaps like this.You see, if you can print in metal,you can print one of these,and in factyou can also print one of these too.The UK I know has some very strict firearms laws.You needn&#39;t bring the gun into the UK anymore.You just bring the 3D printerand print the gun while you&#39;re here,and, of course, the magazines for your bullets.
时间：10:10
zh-cn:但是当这些东西在未来变得越来愈庞大，你们将能打印哪些其他的物体呢？科技将会为更庞大的打印机开路。
en:But as these get bigger in the future,what other items will you be able to print?The technologies are allowing bigger printers.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:随着人类社会向前发展我们也会见证很多新科技的诞生，比如物联网。我们日复一日地将越来越多的个人生活与网络相连，这就意味着物联网将很快成为等待被黑之物的互联网。我们生活空间里存在的所有的有形物体都正在被转换为信息技术，而这对我们的安全具有根本性的暗示，因为与更多的设备产生更多的联系就意味着出现更多的可供攻击的漏洞。罪犯清楚这一点。恐怖分子清楚这一点。黑客清楚这一点。只要你能控制代码，你就能控制整个世界。这就是等待着我们的未来。
en:As we move forward,we&#39;ll see new technologies also, like the Internet of Things.Every day we&#39;re connecting more and more of our livesto the Internet, which meansthat the Internet of Things will soon bethe Internet of Things To Be Hacked.All of the physical objects in our spaceare being transformed into information technologies,and that has a radical implication for our security,because more connections to more devicesmeans more vulnerabilities.Criminals understand this.Terrorists understand this. Hackers understand this.If you control the code, you control the world.This is the future that awaits us.
时间：10:57
zh-cn:到现在为止还没有一个操作系统或者一项技术没有遭到过黑客入侵。这非常令人担忧，因为人体本身正在逐渐成为一项信息技术。正如我们在这里看到的，我们正在将自己转换为电子人。每一年都有成千上万的人工耳蜗，胰岛素泵，心脏起搏器，心脏除颤器被移植入人类的身体。在美国，一共有6万人拥有连接到网络的心脏起搏器。而心脏除颤器也使得千里之外的内科医生能够在患者需要的时候对他的心脏进行一次电击。但是如果你不需要它，而让其他人为你做一次电击，这就不是一件好事了。
en:There has not yet been an operating systemor a technology that hasn&#39;t been hacked.That&#39;s troubling, since the human body itselfis now becoming an information technology.As we&#39;ve seen here, we&#39;re transforming ourselves into cyborgs.Every year, thousands of cochlear implants,diabetic pumps, pacemakersand defibrillators are being implanted in people.In the United States, there are 60,000 peoplewho have a pacemaker that connects to the Internet.The defibrillators allow a physician at a distanceto give a shock to a heartin case a patient needs it.But if you don&#39;t need it,and somebody else gives you the shock,it&#39;s not a good thing.
时间：11:40
zh-cn:当然，我们的科技发展将不会止步于人体。目前，我们的科技正慢慢深入细胞层面。到现在为止，我所谈论到的所有技术都以硅为基础，以0和1为序码，但是现在又出现了另一套操作系统：即最本原的操作系统，DNA。对黑客来说，DNA只不过是另一套等着被入侵的操作系统罢了。这对他们来说是一个巨大的挑战。甚至有很多人早已从事于开发这套生命软件，虽然其中的绝大部分是为了公众的福祉，是为了帮助我们所有人，但总有一部分人心存恶毒。
en:Of course, we&#39;re going to go even deeper than the human body.We&#39;re going down to the cellular level these days.Up until this point, all the technologiesI&#39;ve been talking about have been silicon-based, ones and zeroes,but there&#39;s another operating system out there:the original operating system, DNA.And to hackers, DNA is just another operating systemwaiting to be hacked.It&#39;s a great challenge for them.There are people already working on hacking the software of life,and while most of them are doing this to great goodand to help us all,some won&#39;t be.
时间：12:18
zh-cn:那么罪犯将如何滥用这项技术呢？利用合成生物学，你能做一些相当优雅的事情。例如，我预测我们将会离开这个植物配方毒品的时代而进入合成毒品的时代。那么你们为什么还需要植物呢？你们可以仅仅从大麻或者罂粟或者古柯叶里提取DNA编码，接着剪切并复制那段基因，继而将它放入酵母中，然后你可以取出那些酵母并且用它们来为你们制造可卡因，或者大麻，或者其他任何毒品。可见，我们在未来如何运用酵母将会变得相当有趣。实际上，当我们进入下一个世纪，我们可能会拥有一些非常有意思的面包和啤酒。
en:So how will criminals abuse this?Well, with synthetic biology you can do some pretty neat things.For example, I predict that we will move awayfrom a plant-based narcotics worldto a synthetic one. Why do you need the plants anymore?You can just take the DNA code from marijuanaor poppies or coca leavesand cut and past that geneand put it into yeast,and you can take those yeastand make them make the cocaine for you,or the marijuana, or any other drug.So how we use yeast in the futureis going to be really interesting.In fact, we may have some really interesting bread and beeras we go into this next century.
时间：13:02
zh-cn:对人类基因进行排序的费用正在迅速下降。它过去一直按照摩尔定律的速度进行，但是到了2008年，有一些事情改变了。科技变得更加先进，现在进行DNA排序的速度已经达到了摩尔定律的五倍。这对我们而言有着极为重大的影响。
en:The cost of sequencing the human genome is dropping precipitously.It was proceeding at Moore&#39;s Law pace,but then in 2008, something changed.The technologies got better,and now DNA sequencing is proceeding at a pacefive times that of Moore&#39;s Law.That has significant implications for us.
时间：13:23
zh-cn:我们花了30年时间从个人电脑的引进发展到我们今天达到的网络犯罪的程度，但是看看生物学技术发展得多么迅猛，并像我一样了解罪犯和恐怖分子，我们在未来也许可以利用生物犯罪更快地达成目的。对任何人来说，着手行动，打印他们自己的生物病毒，强化埃博拉病毒、炭疽病、武器化流感的变体，都将轻而易举。
en:It took us 30 years to get fromthe introduction of the personal computerto the level of cybercrime we have today,but looking at how biology is proceeding so rapidly,and knowing criminals and terrorists as I do,we may get there a lot fasterwith biocrime in the future.It will be easy for anybody to go aheadand print their own bio-virus,enhanced versions of ebola or anthrax,weaponized flu.
时间：13:49
zh-cn:我们最近观察到一个案例，发现一些研究员将H5N1禽流感病毒变得更强效。如果你受它感染，你的死亡概率已经会达到70%，但是它并不轻易传染。工程师们通过来回移动少量的基因变化，能够将它武器化并使它更容易传染给人类如此一来，死去的人将何止成千上万，恐怕将以数千万计。你们看，你们可以赶紧行动并创造新的全球性疫情，而那些从事了上述工作的研究员将会为他们的非凡成就而深感自豪，他们会希望将这一技术公开发表，从而让每一个人了解这些，并能够利用这些信息。
en:We recently saw a case where some researchersmade the H5N1 avian influenza virus more potent.It already has a 70 percent mortality rateif you get it, but it&#39;s hard to get.Engineers, by moving around a small numberof genetic changes,were able to weaponize itand make it much more easy for human beings to catch,so that not thousands of people would die,but tens of millions.You see, you can go ahead and createnew pandemics, and the researchers who did thiswere so proud of their accomplishments,they wanted to publish it openlyso that everybody could see thisand get access to this information.
时间：14:29
zh-cn:但是事情远不止这么简单。一位名为Andrew Hessel的DNA研究员已经非常准确地指明如果你们能够利用癌症疗法，现代癌症疗法，去获取一个细胞，同时让其周围的其他细胞保持原状，那么之后你们也可能获取任何一个人的细胞。个性化的癌症疗法正是个性化的生物武器的另一面，这就意味着你可以攻击任何一个人，包括这张图片里的所有人。那么未来我们要如何保护他们？
en:But it goes deeper than that.DNA researcher Andrew Hesselhas pointed out quite rightlythat if you can use cancer treatments,modern cancer treatments,to go after one cell while leaving all the other cellsaround it intact,then you can also go after any one person&#39;s cell.Personalized cancer treatmentsare the flip side of personalized bioweapons,which means you can attack any one individual,including all the people in this picture.How will we protect them in the future?
时间：15:03
zh-cn:我们下一步该怎么办？关于这一切，我们该做什么？这是我一直以来被追问的问题。对于你们中的那些在Twitter上跟随我的人，我将会在今天的晚些时候公布答案。（笑声）
en:What to do? What to do about all this?That&#39;s what I get asked all the time.For those of you who follow me on Twitter,I will be tweeting out the answer later on today. (Laughter)
时间：15:14
zh-cn:实际上，事情比这要更复杂一些，而且我们没有灵丹妙药。我并不知道所有的答案，但是我知道一些事情。在9·11事件之后，最具安保才智的精英们将他们所有的创新凝聚在一起而这正是他们为保护我们的安全所创造的。如果你指望建造了这个的精英能够从未来的机器人启示录之中穿越而出来保护你—（笑声）—嗯，你大概想要一个后备计划。（笑声）只是说一说。只是想一想。（掌声）
en:Actually, it&#39;s a bit more complex than that,and there are no magic bullets.I don&#39;t have all the answers,but I know a few things.In the wake of 9/11,the best security mindsput together all their innovationand this is what they created for security.If you&#39;re expecting the people who built this to protect youfrom the coming robopocalypse — (Laughter)— uh, you may want to have a backup plan. (Laughter)Just saying. Just think about that. (Applause)
时间：15:51
zh-cn:执法活动在当下仍属一个封闭的系统。它虽以国家为基础，但威胁是国际性的。警察并不具有全球性的规模。至少现在还没有，而我们现行的枪支，边防，大门和围栏的体系制度完全不能适应我们正将迈入的新时代。所以我们应该如何准备应对这些特定的威胁，比如袭击一位总统或者首相？政府理所当然会采取的应对措施是将我们的政府领导人全都藏在密封保护的泡沫之中。但是这并不会奏效。对DNA进行排序的费用将会低得微不足道。在未来，任何人都将拥有它，我们都将掌握它。
en:Law enforcement is currently a closed system.It&#39;s nation-based, while the threat is international.Policing doesn&#39;t scale globally. At least, it hasn&#39;t,and our current system of guns, border guards, big gates and fencesare outdated in the new world into which we&#39;re moving.So how might we prepare for some of these specific threats,like attacking a president or a prime minister?This would be the natural government response,to hide away all our government leadersin hermetically sealed bubbles.But this is not going to work.The cost of doing a DNA sequence is going to be trivial.Anybody will have it and we will all have them in the future.
时间：16:27
zh-cn:因此也许有一个更彻底的方式，我们看看这个。如果我们得到总统的DNA，或者国王或王后的DNA，然后将它提供给一个由几百位可信赖的研究员组成的团队，使他们能够研究这个DNA，并且对它进行入侵性的渗透测试，以作为帮助我们的领导人的一种方式，那么将会发生什么呢？或者如果我们将它提供给几千人将会怎么样呢？或者，即使颇具争议，也不是没有风险，如果我们将它提供给全社会将会发生什么？然后我们都能够投身于帮助他人。
en:So maybe there&#39;s a more radical way that we can look at this.What happens if we were to takethe President&#39;s DNA, or a king or queen&#39;s,and put it out to a group of a few hundredtrusted researchers so they couldstudy that DNA and do penetration testing against itas a means of helping our leaders?Or what if we sent it out to a few thousand?Or, controversially, and not without its risks,what happens if we just gave it to the whole public?Then we could all be engaged in helping.
时间：16:56
zh-cn:关于这项工作，我们已经看到了一些实例。有组织犯罪和腐败报告项目配备了记者和公民，他们集思广益群策群力找出独裁者和恐怖分子所做的活动，并得到了来自世界各地的公共基金支持，此外还有一个更具戏剧性的例子，是我们在墨西哥了解到的，这个国家在过去的六年里发生了5万件与毒品有关的谋杀，并为此饱受折磨。他们杀害了这么多的人，甚至负担不起将他们全部好生入葬的费用，而只能将他们埋入这些无名坟墓，比如华雷斯城外的这个地方。我们能为此做些什么呢？政府已经被证明毫无效用。因此在墨西哥，公民们自身冒着极大的危险为了建立一套有效的方案而坚持反击。他们以生命之血构建人群地图记录了毒贩的所有活动。
en:We&#39;ve already seen examples of this working well.The Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Projectis staffed by journalists and citizenswhere they are crowd-sourcingwhat dictators and terrorists are doingwith public funds around the world,and, in a more dramatic case,we&#39;ve seen in Mexico,a country that has been rackedby 50,000 narcotics-related murdersin the past six years.They&#39;re killing so many peoplethey can&#39;t even afford to bury them allin anything but these unmarked graveslike this one outside of Ciudad Juarez.What can we do about this? The government has proven ineffective.So in Mexico, citizens, at great risk to themselves,are fighting back to build an effective solution.They&#39;re crowd-mapping the activities of the drug dealers.
时间：17:44
zh-cn:不论你们是否意识到，我们即将迎来一场科技军备竞赛，这场军备竞赛的双方是运用科技行善的一方和滥用科技作恶的一方这次威胁相当严峻，而全力备战的时间正是现在。我可以向你们保证恐怖分子和罪犯正在加紧准备。
en:Whether or not you realize it,we are at the dawn of a technological arms race,an arms race between peoplewho are using technology for goodand those who are using it for ill.The threat is serious, and the time to prepare for it is now.I can assure you that the terrorists and criminals are.
时间：18:03
zh-cn:我个人的信仰是，与其依靠一支由训练有素的政府人员组成的小规模精英部队来保护我们所有人，还不如让普通公民团结为整体来解决这个问题，并且看看我们能做什么要好得多。如果我们都能够尽绵薄之力，我相信我们将会拥有更美好的生活。改变世界的工具在我们每一个人手中。我们如何利用这些工具绝不仅取决于我，更取决于我们所有人的努力。
en:My personal belief is that,rather than having a small, elite forceof highly trained government agentshere to protect us all,we&#39;re much better offhaving average and ordinary citizensapproaching this problem as a groupand seeing what we can do.If we all do our part,I think we&#39;ll be in a much better space.The tools to change the worldare in everybody&#39;s hands.How we use them is not just up to me,it&#39;s up to all of us.
时间：18:31
zh-cn:这是我在做警察的时候经常应用的科技。这项技术在我们现处的时代已经过气了。它不具规模，不能运用于全世界，在虚拟空间更是一无是处
en:This was a technology I would frequently deployas a police officer.This technology has become outdated in our current world.It doesn&#39;t scale, it doesn&#39;t work globally,and it surely doesn&#39;t work virtually.
时间：18:44
zh-cn:我们已经看到了犯罪和恐怖主义的范式改革。他们呼吁改革至一个更为开放的形态，和一个更注重参与的执法模式。因此我邀请你加入我们。毕竟，公众安全事关重大，不能仅限于专业人员参加。
en:We&#39;ve seen paradigm shifts in crime and terrorism.They call for a shift to a more open formand a more participatory form of law enforcement.So I invite you to join me.After all, public safety is too important to leave to the professionals.
时间：19:04
zh-cn:谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:Thank you. (Applause)
时间：19:07
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
