时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在座的各位有没有问过自己， 为什么那些很酷的公司，那些有创意、懂创新的新经济型的公司 — —苹果、 谷歌、脸书— —都来自同一个国家美国呢？通常当我谈到这一点时，有人会说，&quot;Spotify ！“（瑞典的提供免费音乐试听的公司）那是欧洲的公司。确实是的。但这个公司远没有我提到的那几个美国公司的影响力。
en:Have you ever asked yourselves why it is thatcompanies, the really cool companies,the innovative ones, the creative,new economy-type companies —Apple, Google, Facebook —are coming out of one particular country,the United States of America?Usually when I say this, someone says, &quot;Spotify!That&#39;s Europe.&quot; But, yeah.It has not had the impact that these other companies have had.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:我是一名经济学家，我所研究的是在公司、 行业和国家层面上创新和经济增长之间的关系。我与各国的政策制定者合作。特别是为欧盟委员会工作，最近也为一些生机盎然的国家比如中国工作。我可以告诉你，我一开始问的那一问题都曾从他们的舌尖上流出来过，欧洲谷歌在哪里？硅谷经济增长模式背后的秘密是什么？他们的做法和旧的经济增长模式的不同之处何在？有趣的是，通常来讲，即使我们现在处在 21 世纪，我们会得出这样的结论，那就是市场对抗国家。这被认为是现代（市场运营）方式。但是这种想法却和硅谷等地的背后秘密有所不同，硅谷有不同的市场开拓机制。私人动议，不管这个动议是否属于动态风险投资范畴，这些创新型公司都实际上能够得到高风险融资。被我们称为“羚羊企业”的这些领军公司所需要的融资是那些传统银行所害怕接手的。另外，不同类型的一些颇有成效的商业化政策实际上允许这些公司把他们绝妙的发明、他们的产品直接推向市场，实际上得以安然度过被称为“可怕死亡谷”的时期。其他的很多公司却在这个时期一败涂地。
en:Now what I do is I&#39;m an economist,and I actually study the relationshipbetween innovation and economic growthat the level of the company, the industry and the nation,and I work with policymakers worldwide,especially in the European Commission,but recently also in interesting places like China,and I can tell you that that questionis on the tip of all of their tongues:Where are the European Googles?What is the secret behind the Silicon Valley growth model,which they understand is differentfrom this old economy growth model?And what is interesting is that often,even if we&#39;re in the 21st century,we kind of come down in the end to these ideasof market versus state.It&#39;s talked about in these modern ways,but the idea is that somehow, behind places like Silicon Valley,the secret have been different types of market-making mechanisms,the private initiative, whether this be abouta dynamic venture capital sectorthat&#39;s actually able to provide that high-risk financeto these innovative companies,the gazelles as we often call them,which traditional banks are scared of,or different types of really successfulcommercialization policies which actually allow these companiesto bring these great inventions, their products,to the market and actually get over thisreally scary Death Valley periodin which many companies instead fail.
时间： 1:51
zh-cn:特别是现在，源于世界上的政治动向，真正让我感兴趣的是(商业中）使用的语言、叙述方法、话语、 图像和实际使用的词汇。所以我们常常听到诸如私营部门之类的词汇都是更有新意的，因为它能跳出惯常的思维，他们更有活力。让我们回想史蒂夫 · 乔布斯于2005年在斯坦福大学给毕业生做的演讲。他当时说： 一个人要创新，就需要保持求知欲，不断地去试错。对吧？这些人都是些如饥似渴、懵懵懂懂又个性鲜明的家伙，对吧？在像欧洲这样的地方社会更公平，我们甚至被美国人穿得更讲究，吃得更可口。但问题在于这些讨厌的公共部门。这些部门有些太庞大了，它实际上没法让像动态风险资本和商业化这样能够结出商业硕果的事物存在。即使那些很受人推崇的报纸，有些我正在订阅的报纸，你知道，他们把美国形容成“利维坦”。对吧？【译注：利维坦是霍布斯的同名政治哲学著作里虚构出来的庞然大物】有着巨大触角的怪兽。他们在他们的社论里非常明确地这样说。他们说，&quot;你知道，美国有必要去修复这些小小的市场失灵。当你拥有公共物资或那些负面的外部因素比如污染时。你知道吗，在互联网之后下一次科技革命是什么吗？我们都希望它可能是一场绿色的革命。或者是与纳米技术有关的革命，为了让新科技革命成为可能，&quot;他们说 —这是关于下一次工业革命的特殊议题 — —他们说，&quot;国家就是要专注于基础建设，对吧？给基础设施和学校建设投资。也给基础科学研究投资，因为这是得到共识的。事实上，私营公司不想为大型的公共设施投资。这是国家需要做的，你知道吗？然后把剩下的（市场）留给革新者&quot;。那些个性鲜明、不拘一格的革新家，通常被称为车库工匠，他们中有些人确实是在车库里工作的，这些故事都被传成神话了。所以我想和你们讲的是，天哪，只剩10 分钟了！（我要讲的）是我们要再考量（国家和市场的）并行。因为这种并行有非常非常巨大的影响力，超越于某些与我合作的决策者所在地区的创新政策之上。它有非常巨大的影响，甚至影响到整个国家对我们在何时、何地、为何要削减公共开支和其他公共服务部门的开支的决策。我们知道，正是由于这种并行，一些公共服务部门的工作已经被更多的外包出去了。对吧？我是说，我们需要有公立学校或特许学校通过国民必修课程等的重拳出击无后顾之忧地把孩子们培养成为创新型人才。所以这些词汇的出现都是有一致性的，不仅与创新政策有关，这种并行简直无处不在。
en:But what really interests me, especially nowadaysand because of what&#39;s happening politically around the world,is the language that&#39;s used, the narrative,the discourse, the images, the actual words.So we often are presentedwith the kind of words like that the private sectoris also much more innovative because it&#39;s able tothink out of the box.They are more dynamic.Think of Steve Jobs&#39; really inspirational speechto the 2005 graduating class at Stanford,where he said to be innovative,you&#39;ve got to stay hungry, stay foolish.Right? So these guys are kind of the hungryand foolish and colorful guys, right?And in places like Europe,it might be more equitable,we might even be a bit better dressedand eat better than the U.S.,but the problem is this damn public sector.It&#39;s a bit too big, and it hasn&#39;t actually allowedthese things like dynamic venture capitaland commercialization to actually be able to reallybe as fruitful as it could.And even really respectable newspapers,some that I&#39;m actually subscribed to,the words they use are, you know,the state as this Leviathan. Right?This monster with big tentacles.They&#39;re very explicit in these editorials.They say, &quot;You know, the state, it&#39;s necessaryto fix these little market failureswhen you have public goodsor different types of negative externalities like pollution,but you know what, what is the next big revolutiongoing to be after the Internet?We all hope it might be something green,or all of this nanotech stuff, and in order for that stuff to happen,&quot; they say —this was a special issue on the next industrial revolution —they say, &quot;the state, just stick to the basics, right?Fund the infrastructure. Fund the schools.Even fund the basic research, because this ispopularly recognized, in fact, as a big public goodwhich private companies don&#39;t want to invest in,do that, but you know what?Leave the rest to the revolutionaries.&quot;Those colorful, out-of-the-box kind of thinkers.They&#39;re often called garage tinkerers,because some of them actually did some things in garages,even though that&#39;s partly a myth.And so what I want to do with you in, oh God,only 10 minutes,is to really think again this juxtaposition,because it actually has massive, massive implicationsbeyond innovation policy,which just happens to be the areathat I often talk with with policymakers.It has huge implications, even with this whole notionthat we have on where, when and whywe should actually be cutting back on public spendingand different types of public services which,of course, as we know, are increasingly beingoutsourced because of this juxtaposition.Right? I mean, the reason that we need to maybe have free schools or charter schoolsis in order to make them more innovative without being emburdenedby this heavy hand of the state curriculum, or something.So these kind of words are constantly,these juxtapositions come up everywhere,not just with innovation policy.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:所以，再回过头来想，你们不需要相信我，就想想你口袋里的一些最绝妙的革新产品吧。不要打开开关哟。你就拿出来看看你的iPhone吧。你会问到底是谁给iPhone那些非常酷的革新性、突破性的技术投资的。到底是什么让你的电话基本上成了智能手机，而不仅仅是一个粗劣的手机呢？通过互联网，你可以在世界上的任何地方上网冲浪。通过GPS，你可以明确地知道自己在世界的某个地方。触摸屏显示，使手机真正变成任何人都可以轻松学会使用的手机。iPhone的这些非常巧妙的、革新性的部分其实全部都是由政府资助的。就是说，互联网是由DARPA美国国防部资助的。全球定位系统（GPS) 是由军方的 Navstar项目出资的。甚至语音控制功能(Siri) 都实际上是由 DARPA资助的。触屏显示是由两个国家部门：中情局（CIA)和国家科学基金会（NSF）资助美公立大学特拉华大学的两位科研人员而开发出来的。现在，您会想，&quot;好吧，她只不过是讲了好几遍的&#39;国防&#39; 和 &#39;军事&#39; 什么的。&quot;有趣的是，这些都是事实。就是由国家的一个又一个的部门，一个又一个的直属单位来做的。我个人对制药业非常感兴趣。因为我有幸比较深入地研究了这一行。一个很有趣的问题是关于革新型和非革新型药物的。因为每种药物都实际上可以被分为革新型或者改进型。有优先评级的新分子实体药物是革新型药物。而对原有药物进行细微改进的— —比如伟哥，改变药物颜色、 改变药物剂量 — —这就属于非革新型药物了。结果呢，75%的有优先评级的新分子实体都实际上是由，老掉牙的Kafkian 公共部门实验室提供资金。这并不意味着大型制药公司不把钱花费在创新上。他们也这样做。他们也往市场营销这一部分投钱。他们只是花钱用于开发市场。他们花费相当多的资金来购回自己的股票，这是很成问题的。事实上，辉瑞和安进这样的大公司最近为了抬高他们的股票价格，花在购买他们自家股票的资金远远超过他们花在研发方面的资金。这涉及了一个完全不同的 TED 演讲主题，有一天我会很高兴讲给你们听的。
en:And so to think again,there&#39;s no reason that you should believe me,so just think of some of the smartestrevolutionary things that you have in your pocketsand do not turn it on, but you might want to take it out, your iPhone.Ask who actually funded the really cool,revolutionary thinking-out-of-the-boxthings in the iPhone.What actually makes your phonea smartphone, basically, instead of a stupid phone?So the Internet, which you can surf the webanywhere you are in the world;GPS, where you can actually know where you areanywhere in the world;the touchscreen display, which makes it alsoa really easy-to-use phone for anybody.These are the very smart, revolutionary bits about the iPhone,and they&#39;re all government-funded.And the point is that the Internetwas funded by DARPA, U.S. Department of Defense.GPS was funded by the military&#39;s Navstar program.Even Siri was actually funded by DARPA.The touchscreen display was fundedby two public grants by the CIA and the NSFto two public university researchers at the University of Delaware.Now, you might be thinking, &quot;Well, she&#39;s just saidthe word &#39;defense&#39; and &#39;military&#39; an awful lot,&quot;but what&#39;s really interesting is that this is actually truein sector after sector and department after department.So the pharmaceutical industry, which I am personallyvery interested in because I&#39;ve actually had the fortuneto study it in quite some depth,is wonderful to be asking this questionabout the revolutionary versus non-revolutionary bits,because each and every medicine can actually bedivided up on whether it really is revolutionary or incremental.So the new molecular entities with priority ratingare the revolutionary new drugs,whereas the slight variations of existing drugs —Viagra, different color, different dosage —are the less revolutionary ones.And it turns out that a full 75 percentof the new molecular entities with priority ratingare actually funded in boring, Kafka-ian public sector labs.This doesn&#39;t mean that Big Pharma is not spending on innovation.They do. They spend on the marketing part.They spend on the D part of R&amp;D.They spend an awful lot on buying back their stock,which is quite problematic.In fact, companies like Pfizer and Amgen recentlyhave spent more money in buying back their sharesto boost their stock price than on R&amp;D,but that&#39;s a whole different TED Talk which one dayI&#39;d be fascinated to tell you about.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:现在，在所有新研发的例子里，最有趣的是，美国这个国家，所做的要比单纯修复市场失灵多得多。它实际上是在塑造和创造市场。它不仅给基本研究投资，那是典型的公共利益。它而且给应用研究投资。上帝保佑吧，它甚至成了风险资本家（给风险企业投资）。这些小型企业研发资金项目（SBIR和SDTR)给小型公司提供早期的财政支持。跟私人风险资本来投资比起来，对于小企业这是非常非常重要的。而且变得越来越重要。为什么呢？因为，我们很多人都知道，私人风险投资实际上是相当短期的行为。他们想在三至五年内得到回报。可是创新需要比那更长的时间，通常要15 到 20 年。这就是整个的概念 — — 我是说，这是重点，对吧？谁实际上在给研发难题提供资金？当然，不仅仅是国家政府。私营部门也做了很多。但是事实总是告诉我们国家对于奠定研发的基础非常重要。但是它并不是那种高风险的革新性创意本身。所有这些公共部门，他们从资助互联网到负担期间的花费。他们甚至提供预想阶段和战略设想阶段的资金支持。这些资金实际上都是来自于国家政府。纳米技术部门（的科研人员）很醉心于这项研究。而纳米技术这个词汇本身就是政府部门给起的。
en:Now, what&#39;s interesting in all of thisis the state, in all these examples,was doing so much more than just fixing market failures.It was actually shaping and creating markets.It was funding not only the basic research,which again is a typical public good,but even the applied research.It was even, God forbid, being a venture capitalist.So these SBIR and SDTR programs,which give small companies early-stage financehave not only been extremely importantcompared to private venture capital,but also have become increasingly important.Why? Because, as many of us know,V.C. is actually quite short-term.They want their returns in three to five years.Innovation takes a much longer time than that,15 to 20 years.And so this whole notion — I mean, this is the point, right?Who&#39;s actually funding the hard stuff?Of course, it&#39;s not just the state.The private sector does a lot.But the narrative that we&#39;ve always been toldis the state is important for the basics,but not really providing that sort of high-risk,revolutionary thinking out of the box.In all these sectors, from funding the Internetto doing the spending, but also the envisioning,the strategic vision, for these investments,it was actually coming within the state.The nanotechnology sector is actually fascinatingto study this, because the word itself, nanotechnology,came from within government.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:它当然会带来巨大的影响。首先，当然我不是那些，守旧的认为“国家对抗市场”的人。我们对动态资本主义的理解就是我们确实需要“公共与私人”这样的伙伴关系。但问题是,政府部门通常被描述成一个必要的存在，但实际上 — —噗 — — 有点呆板一个通常会带来危险的利维坦。我想我们真的在阻碍，以一种真正动态的方式去建立“公共-私人”伙伴关系的可能性。我们经常为“P&quot;部分辩解，公共（public)部分— — 其实，如果说到去风险化，这可是两个 P — —公共（public)-私人(private)伙伴关系。在我给大家的讲的这些例子里，以及其他更多的领域里公共部门的作用是我和其他的同事都很关心的。公共部门的作用不仅仅是去风险化这一点作用。公共部门也在承担风险，勇往直前。它实际上也成了创新科技的一部分。但同时，我确定你们都和地方级、 区域级以及国家级的政府打过交道。你会说，&quot;你知道吧，我见过那个卡夫卡式的官僚。“整个（国家与市场）并行的关系其实一直都有的。那么，有个自我实现的预言是在讲国家是不相干的，呆板的。有的时候是我们自己把这些组织机构搞成这个样子的。所以我们现在要做的就是把这些国家政府机构建成创业型机构。资助互联网和语音控制系统(Siri)的美国国防部高级研究计划局（英文简称是DARPA）实际上对风险投资深思熟虑过，如何迎接失败呢，因为你总会有失败的。你如果勇于创新，肯定有失败的时候。10次实验中的一次也许会有成功。搞风险投资的人当然知道这些。他们其实愿意为那些有过一次成功的失败者提供资金。
en:And so there&#39;s huge implications of this.First of all, of course I&#39;m not someone,this old-fashioned person, market versus state.What we all know in dynamic capitalismis that what we actually need are public-private partnerships.But the point is, by constantly depictingthe state part as necessarybut actually — pffff — a bit boringand often a bit dangerous kind of Leviathan,I think we&#39;ve actually really stunted the possibilityto build these public-private partnershipsin a really dynamic way.Even the words that we often use to justify the &quot;P&quot; part,the public part — well, they&#39;re both P&#39;s —with public-private partnershipsis in terms of de-risking.What the public sector did in all these examplesI just gave you, and there&#39;s many more,which myself and other colleagues have been looking at,is doing much more than de-risking.It&#39;s kind of been taking on that risk. Bring it on.It&#39;s actually been the one thinking out of the box.But also, I&#39;m sure you all have had experiencewith local, regional, national governments,and you&#39;re kind of like, &quot;You know what, that Kafka-ian bureaucrat, I&#39;ve met him.&quot;That whole juxtaposition thing, it&#39;s kind of there.Well, there&#39;s a self-fulfilling prophecy.By talking about the state as kind of irrelevant,boring, it&#39;s sometimesthat we actually create those organizations in that way.So what we have to actually do is buildthese entrepreneurial state organizations.DARPA, that funded the Internet and Siri,actually thought really hard about this,how to welcome failure, because you will fail.You will fail when you innovative.One out of 10 experiments has any success.And the V.C. guys know this,and they&#39;re able to actually fund the other lossesfrom that one success.
时间： 9:54
zh-cn:而这实际上让我觉得有非常大的意义。这个意义已经超过了创新科技的巨大影响。国家政府不仅仅有市场修复的功能，而且有塑造市场的功能。因此，政府需要在创新科技上冒大险那么回报是什么呢？如果你学过金融课，你会知道你学到的第一课就大概是风险与回报的关系，因此有些人愚蠢至极或者说聪明至极，他们把时间花在投资股票上，因为股票的风险高所以随之而来的回报也自然高。这就是所说的风险回报的关系。政府在创新科技上冒了如此大的风险，那么回报在哪里？政府搞什么互联网，是不是傻过了头？互联网是疯狂的。确实是。我的意思说，它带来的失败可能是巨大的。你一定得是个傻子采取给它投资。幸运的是，他们是傻子。现在，我们还没提到回报这事儿呢。除非你把美国政府描绘成冒险家（不想要回报）。问题是经济学家们往往认为，政府当然有回报呀，那些税收呀。你知道，公司当然会交税，他们创造就业机会，税收自然会增长。人们得到那些工作，他们的工资得以提高，然后通过交纳税款回报政府。可遗憾的是，事实并非如此。是的，事实不是这样的，因为许多就业的岗位在国外。全球化，这没问题。我们不应该持民族主义态度。也许我们就应该让这些工作岗位安置在合适的地方。我是说，总有人会受雇上岗吧。但这些公司其实从政府那儿得到了巨大的好处。苹果就是一个很好的例子。他们甚至是第一 — — 好吧，也许不是第一，但是他们确实通过SBIC计划得到了50万美元的资助。该计划早于后来的SBIR计划。同样，我交代过，iPhone背后的所有技术（也是来自政府投资）。但是我们知道在法律上，和其他公司一样，苹果公司只需要上缴很少的税款。
en:And this brings me, actually, probably,to the biggest implication,and this has huge implications beyond innovation.If the state is more than just a market fixer,if it actually is a market shaper,and in doing that has had to take on this massive risk,what happened to the reward?We all know, if you&#39;ve ever taken a finance course,the first thing you&#39;re taught is sort of the risk-reward relationship,and so some people are foolish enoughor probably smart enough if they have time to wait,to actually invest in stocks, because they&#39;re higher riskwhich over time will make a greater reward than bonds,that whole risk-reward thing.Well, where&#39;s the reward for the stateof having taken on these massive risksand actually been foolish enough to have done the Internet?The Internet was crazy.It really was. I mean, the probability of failure was massive.You had to be completely nuts to do it,and luckily, they were.Now, we don&#39;t even get to this question about rewardsunless you actually depict the state as this risk-taker.And the problem is that economists often think,well, there is a reward back to the state. It&#39;s tax.You know, the companies will pay tax,the jobs they create will create growthso people who get those jobs and their incomes risewill come back to the state through the tax mechanism.Well, unfortunately, that&#39;s not true.Okay, it&#39;s not true because many of the jobs that are created go abroad.Globalization, and that&#39;s fine. We shouldn&#39;t be nationalistic.Let the jobs go where they have to go, perhaps.I mean, one can take a position on that.But also these companiesthat have actually had this massive benefit from the state —Apple&#39;s a great example.They even got the first — well, not the first,but 500,000 dollars actually went to Apple, the company,through this SBIC program,which predated the SBIR program,as well as, as I said before, all the technologies behind the iPhone.And yet we know they legally,as many other companies, pay very little tax back.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:所以我们确实需要重新思考的是也许需要有一个利润回报机制让这些公司回报比税款更多的资金给政府。为什么不呢？也许可以通过发行股票的方式。顺便说一下，其他国家实际上也在考虑使用这样的方法。比如说芬兰、斯堪的那维亚还有中国和巴西。他们的政府持有这些创新公司的股票。希特拉给诺基亚投资，持有他们的股票，赚了很多钱，它是芬兰的一个公共的投资机构。它后来又资助了诺基亚的下一代产品。巴西开发银行现在提供大量资金去开发保洁技术。他们刚刚宣布了一个资助未来保洁技术的560 亿的计划。他们会保有这些发明的上市股票。把它说得诱人些，美国政府完全可以考虑通过一些所谓的“创新基金”得到更多的回报。你知道吗，你完全可以打赌，如果仅仅 0.5%由互联网带来的收益回报给“创新基金”的话，就会有更多的钱可以投资到绿色科技上。可是正相反，许多政府预算都想这么去做的，可是资金有限。但或许更重要的是，我们之前听过 1%，99%。如果美国政府能够更有战略眼光，成为价值生成机制的主导者该有多好。这就是我们在讨论的重点，对吧？谁在市场经济中充当创造价值的特殊一员？考虑到政府的作用，政府是不是成了市场经济中的候补队员了？实际上，如果我们有一个更广义的价值生成理论，我们可以允许政府对科技投资，以期回报。也许下一轮的科技创新时，我们就可以这样做。我希望我们期待的下一个巨大变革会真的是绿色革命。那个时期的经济增长，不仅是智能的、 创新主导的、不仅是绿色的，更应该是包容的，这样，像在硅谷的那些公立学校就可以从经济增长中直接受益。但是他们还没有受益。
en:So what we really need to actually rethinkis should there perhaps be a return-generating mechanismthat&#39;s much more direct than tax. Why not?It could happen perhaps through equity.This, by the way, in the countriesthat are actually thinking about this strategically,countries like Finland in Scandinavia,but also in China and Brazil,they&#39;re retaining equity in these investments.Sitra funded Nokia, kept equity, made a lot of money,it&#39;s a public funding agency in Finland,which then funded the next round of Nokias.The Brazilian Development Bank,which is providing huge amounts of funds todayto clean technology, they just announceda $56 billion program for the future on this,is retaining equity in these investments.So to put it provocatively,had the U.S. government thought about this,and maybe just brought backjust something called an innovation fund,you can bet that, you know, if even just .05 percentof the profits from what the Internet producedhad come back to that innovation fund,there would be so much more moneyto spend today on green technology.Instead, many of the state budgetswhich in theory are trying to do thatare being constrained.But perhaps even more important,we heard before about the one percent,the 99 percent.If the state is thought about in this more strategic way,as one of the lead players in the value creation mechanism,because that&#39;s what we&#39;re talking about, right?Who are the different players in creating valuein the economy, and is the state&#39;s role,has it been sort of dismissed as being a backseat player?If we can actually have a broader theoryof value creation and allow us to actually admitwhat the state has been doing and reap something back,it might just be that in the next round,and I hope that we all hope that the next big revolutionwill in fact be green,that that period of growthwill not only be smart, innovation-led,not only green, but also more inclusive,so that the public schools in places like Silicon Valleycan actually also benefit from that growth,because they have not.
时间：13:49
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：13:51
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
