时间： 0:11
zh-cn:&quot;不要和陌生人说话。&quot;
en:&quot;Don&#39;t talk to strangers.&quot;
时间： 0:15
zh-cn:这句话已经被你的朋友、家人、学校和媒体重复了好多年了。这是一个准则，一个社会行为规范。但这又是一个特殊的社会行为标准，因为这个准则试图要告诉我们我们应该或不应该接触什么样的人。“不要和陌生人说话”的意思是，“避开那些你不熟悉的人。只跟那些你认识的和像你一样的人来往。“
en:You have heard that phrase utteredby your friends, family, schools and the media for decades.It&#39;s a norm. It&#39;s a social norm.But it&#39;s a special kind of social norm,because it&#39;s a social norm that wants to tell uswho we can relate to and who we shouldn&#39;t relate to.&quot;Don&#39;t talk to strangers&quot; says,&quot;Stay from anyone who&#39;s not familiar to you.Stick with the people you know.Stick with people like you.&quot;
时间： 0:45
zh-cn:这听上去有趣吗？这不是我们意气风发的时候做的事情，不是吗？当我们意气风发的时候，我们和那些跟我们不同的人来往，因为这样我们可以向这些与我们不同的人学习。
en:How appealing is that?It&#39;s not really what we do, is it, when we&#39;re at our best?When we&#39;re at our best, we reach out to peoplewho are not like us,because when we do that, we learn from peoplewho are not like us.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:我认为这种“和我们不同”就是“陌生感”，我的意思是在今天已经电子化、虚拟化的世界里，陌生人已经不是问题的重点。我们需要担心的重点是，这种陌生感有多少（两者之间有多陌生）？
en:My phrase for this value of being with &quot;not like us&quot;is &quot;strangeness,&quot;and my point is that in today&#39;s digitally intensive world,strangers are quite frankly not the point.The point that we should be worried about is,how much strangeness are we getting?
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:为什么是陌生感？因为我们的社会关系正在被数据量化，这些数据又把我们的社会关系转化成虚拟数字关系，这意味着我们的数字生活很大程度上依赖于科技带来的一种稳定感，一种探索感，一种惊喜和不可预测性。为什么不通过陌生人来获得这种需求？因为陌生人是这个充满条条框框的世界的一部分。他们属于一个简单的把人分为我认识和我不认识的世界，而在我的数字关系里，我已经在和我不认识的人有了交流。问题已经不再是我到底认不认识你。问题是，我们可以在一起做什么？我能从你那里学习什么？我们能在一起做些有益双方的事情？
en:Why strangeness? Because our social relationsare increasingly mediated by data,and data turns our social relations into digital relations,and that means that our digital relationsnow depend extraordinarily on technologyto bring to them a sense of robustness,a sense of discovery,a sense of surprise and unpredictability.Why not strangers?Because strangers are part of a worldof really rigid boundaries.They belong to a world of people I knowversus people I don&#39;t know,and in the context of my digital relations,I&#39;m already doing things with people I don&#39;t know.The question isn&#39;t whether or not I know you.The question is, what can I do with you?What can I learn with you?What can we do together that benefits us both?
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:我花了很多时间思考人们的社会生活在发生着怎样的变化，新技术是如何为人类带来新的限制和机遇。今天我们面临的最重要的变化与这些数据和它们如何塑造我们在未来拥有的数字关系息息相关。未来的经济发展依赖于此。我们未来的社会生活依赖于此。我们应该担心的不是遇到陌生人。我们该担心的是我们会不会得到本应属于我们的那份“陌生感”（意为与他人产生有效联系的机会）。
en:I spend a lot of time thinking abouthow the social landscape is changing,how new technologies create new constraintsand new opportunities for people.The most important changes facing us todayhave to do with data and what data is doingto shape the kinds of digital relationsthat will be possible for us in the future.The economies of the future depend on that.Our social lives in the future depend on that.The threat to worry about isn&#39;t strangers.The threat to worry about is whether or notwe&#39;re getting our fair share of strangeness.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:20世纪的心理学家和社会学家专注于陌生人，但是他们当年并没有料到人类关系的这种多样性，而且他们是在实践影响的范畴内讨论研究陌生人的。上世纪60到70年代的斯坦利·米尔格兰姆（美国著名社会心理学家）“小世界现象”实验的创造者，这个实验就是以后著名的“六度分离”理论，意思就是任何两个人都会在5到7人之间建立起联系。他认为陌生人随处可见。我们可以与他们发生联系。各种途径可以帮助我们建立这些联系。马克·格兰诺维特，斯坦福社会学家，1973年在他的著名论文“弱连接的威力”中指出这些“弱连接”（指与我们不熟的人）是我们社会关系网络的一部分，这些陌生人会有效的带给我们不同的信息，这点要优于我们的“强连接”，那些我们非常亲近的人。他同时指出了我们的“强连接”的另一个问题就是这些在生活中和我们走的很近的人，这些“强连接”们，会不断的同化我们。他们让我们变得越来越一致。
en:Now, 20th-century psychologists and sociologistswere thinking about strangers,but they weren&#39;t thinking so dynamically about human relations,and they were thinking about strangersin the context of influencing practices.Stanley Milgram from the &#39;60s and &#39;70s,the creator of the small-world experiments,which became later popularized as six degrees of separation,made the point that any two arbitrarily selected peoplewere likely connected from between five to seven intermediary steps.His point was that strangers are out there.We can reach them. There are pathsthat enable us to reach them.Mark Granovetter, Stanford sociologist, in 1973in his seminal essay &quot;The Strength of Weak Ties,&quot;made the point that these weak tiesthat are a part of our networks, these strangers,are actually more effective at diffusing information to usthan are our strong ties, the people closest to us.He makes an additional indictment of our strong tieswhen he says that these people who are so close to us,these strong ties in our lives,actually have a homogenizing effect on us.They produce sameness.
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:我和我在因特尔的同事在过去的几年里都在观察数字平台是如何重塑我们的日常生活的，哪些新的惯例正在产生。我们主要特别观察了某些电子平台，它们让我们把我们自己的东西，那些曾经只限于我们自己和来家里的朋友，分享给那些我们并不认识的人。不管是我们衣服，汽车，自行车，书籍还是音乐，我们现在都可以把我们自己的东西让那些我们从未谋面的人接触到。而且我们总结出了一条非常重要的结论，就是当人与生活中的事物的关系发生改变的同时，他们与他人的关系也在改变。尽管这样，一代代的（智能）推荐系统都还没有意识到这一点。这些系统还在根据我过去的一些特征和我已经做了什么来猜我需要什么。一代代的安全技术还在设计抵御威胁和袭击的数据保护方案，来让我困在一些非常教条的关系中。
en:My colleagues and I at Intel have spent the last few yearslooking at the ways in which digital platformsare reshaping our everyday lives,what kinds of new routines are possible.We&#39;ve been looking specifically at the kindsof digital platforms that have enabled usto take our possessions, those things that used to bevery restricted to us and to our friends in our houses,and to make them available to people we don&#39;t know.Whether it&#39;s our clothes, whether it&#39;s our cars,whether it&#39;s our bikes, whether it&#39;s our books or music,we are able to take our possessions nowand make them available to people we&#39;ve never met.And we concluded a very important insight,which was that as people&#39;s relationshipsto the things in their lives change,so do their relations with other people.And yet recommendation systemafter recommendation system continues to miss the boat.It continues to try to predict what I needbased on some past characterization of who I am,of what I&#39;ve already done.Security technology after security technologycontinues to design data protectionin terms of threats and attacks,keeping me locked into really rigid kinds of relations.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:类似于“朋友”、“家人”、“联系人”和“同事”的分类没有办法展现我实际的关系状态。一个更有效的看待关系的方法可能是根据亲疏关系和距离，也就是说，在任意时刻，和任何人，我都和那个人既亲近又保持一定距离，这都要看我现在需要做些什么。人和人的关系不会只是亲近或者疏远。这种关系是两者的结合，而且这种结合总是在变化。
en:Categories like &quot;friends&quot; and &quot;family&quot;and &quot;contacts&quot; and &quot;colleagues&quot;don&#39;t tell me anything about my actual relations.A more effective way to think about my relationsmight be in terms of closeness and distance,where at any given point in time, with any single person,I am both close and distant from that individual,all as a function of what I need to do right now.People aren&#39;t close or distant.People are always a combination of the two,and that combination is constantly changing.
时间： 5:41
zh-cn:如果科技可以打破某些关系的平衡，结果会怎样呢？如果科技可以帮助我找到我现在需要的那个人？&quot;陌生感&quot;就是评估亲疏关系的一个标准，它帮助我找到那些我现在就需要的人，帮助我找到那些我现在需要的亲密感、探索感和灵感的源泉。“陌生感”不是说我们要见陌生人。它其实就是告诉我们要突破我们那些熟悉的区域。突破这些熟悉的区域是一种认识陌生感的方式，而且这不仅仅是个人问题，也是那些想要抓住更多新机遇的组织团体遇到的问题。或者你是一个政党教条得用谁是同盟和谁不是同盟的简单判断而让整个政党遭受不必要的损失，或者你是政府部门试图保护那些社会机构如婚姻并只让很少的人可以接触到这些机构，或者你是一个在自己房间里和父母闹不和的青少年，“陌生感”为我们需要新的关系铺平了道路。我们需要打破过去的陈规。我们需要打破这些规距才能带来新技术并在此之上创造新的商机。
en:What if technologies could interveneto disrupt the balance of certain kinds of relationships?What if technologies could interveneto help me find the person that I need right now?Strangeness is that calibrationof closeness and distancethat enables me to find the people that I need right now,that enables me to find the sources of intimacy,of discovery, and of inspiration that I need right now.Strangeness is not about meeting strangers.It simply makes the point that we needto disrupt our zones of familiarity.So jogging those zones of familiarity is one way to think about strangeness,and it&#39;s a problem faced not just by individuals today,but also by organizations,organizations that are trying to embrace massively new opportunities.Whether you&#39;re a political partyinsisting to your detriment on a very rigid notionof who belongs and who does not,whether you&#39;re the governmentprotecting social institutions like marriageand restricting access of those institutions to the few,whether you&#39;re a teenager in her bedroomwho&#39;s trying to jostle her relations with her parents,strangeness is a way to think about how we pave the wayto new kinds of relations.We have to change the norms.We have to change the norms in order to enablenew kinds of technologiesas a basis for new kinds of businesses.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:在这个没有陌生人的世界里会出现哪些有趣的问题呢？我们对我们与他人的关系又会有怎样不同的思考？我们对我们与那些分散的人群的关系又会有怎样不同的看法？我们又对我们与那些已经深入到我们生活中各个角落的科技之间的关系有什么不同的看法呢？数字关系的范围是十分宽广的。在这个前提下，安全的寻找“陌生感”很有可能是创新的新基础。
en:What interesting questions lie ahead for usin this world of no strangers?How might we think differently about our relations with people?How might we think differently about our relationswith distributed groups of people?How might we think differently about our relations with technologies,things that effectively become social participantsin their own right?The range of digital relations is extraordinary.In the context of this broad range of digital relations,safely seeking strangeness might very well bea new basis for that innovation.
时间： 7:47
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 7:49
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
