时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我的工作是写关于食物和烹饪的文章。我是很严肃地对待这些事情。但是现在我要谈论一些在近一两年里对我们愈发重要的事情。这就是饮食的问题，但本质上并不和烹饪相关。下面我先展示一幅美丽的母牛的照片。我并不是一名素食主义者 — 这听上去象以前尼克松的用语，不是吗？但我仍然认为这 —（笑声）— 可能是现在的情况。
en:I write about food. I write about cooking.I take it quite seriously,but I&#39;m here to talk about somethingthat&#39;s become very important to me in the last year or two.It is about food, but it&#39;s not about cooking, per se.I&#39;m going to start with this picture of a beautiful cow.I&#39;m not a vegetarian — this is the old Nixon line, right?But I still think that this —(Laughter)— may be this year&#39;s version of this.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:只不过现在有一点夸张罢了。为什么我要说这些呢？因为以前只发生过一次，每个人的命运和整个人类的命运如此紧密得连结在一起。过去是原子弹，现在也同样发生了这种情况。并且我们现在要决定的不仅是我们每个人的生活质量和寿命，而且是如果在一个世纪之后评价现在的世界，我们是否会认同它。这是一次不同类型的浩劫，并且逃避并不能解决任何问题。现在全球变暖的现象不仅是真实的，而且非常危险。因为现在世界上的每一个科学家都对此表示认同，并且甚至布什总统都表示认同，当然也可能是假装的，我们必须要面对它。
en:Now, that is only a little bit hyperbolic.And why do I say it?Because only once before has the fate of individual peopleand the fate of all of humanitybeen so intertwined.There was the bomb, and there&#39;s now.And where we go from here is going to determinenot only the quality and the length of our individual lives,but whether, if we could see the Earth a century from now,we&#39;d recognize it.It&#39;s a holocaust of a different kind,and hiding under our desks isn&#39;t going to help.Start with the notion that global warmingis not only real, but dangerous.Since every scientist in the world now believes this,and even President Bush has seen the light, or pretends to,we can take this is a given.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:现在请听我说。畜牧业是仅次于能源生产的第二大制造者产生改变气候的气体。将近全部温室气体的五分之一是由畜牧业产生的 —比运输业还要多。现在你可以尽情地开有关牛屁的玩笑，但是甲烷的有害程度是二氧化碳的20倍，而且这其中不仅仅包含甲烷。畜牧业又是造成土地退化的最大元凶空气和水污染，水资源短缺和生物多样性遭到破坏。诸如此类还有许多。这就好像国家里一半的抗生素不是用在人类，而是用在动物身上的。但是我罗列的这些听上去只是一串数字，所以让我换一种方式表述，如果你比较激进，如果你驾驶一辆普锐斯，或者你购买绿色食品，或者购买有机食品，你很可能是一个半素食主义者。现在我对母牛的反对比对原子弹的反对更甚，但是这正是我们现在的生活方式。这里还有另外一个问题安·库珀在昨天曾经很完美得探讨过，并且你们已经知道了。
en:Then hear this, please.After energy production, livestock is the second-highest contributorto atmosphere-altering gases.Nearly one-fifth of all greenhouse gasis generated by livestock production —more than transportation.Now, you can make all the jokes you want about cow farts,but methane is 20 times more poisonous than CO2,and it&#39;s not just methane.Livestock is also one of the biggest culprits in land degradation,air and water pollution, water shortages and loss of biodiversity.There&#39;s more.Like half the antibiotics in this countryare not administered to people, but to animals.But lists like this become kind of numbing, so let me just say this:if you&#39;re a progressive,if you&#39;re driving a Prius, or you&#39;re shopping green,or you&#39;re looking for organic,you should probably be a semi-vegetarian.Now, I&#39;m no more anti-cattle than I am anti-atom,but it&#39;s all in the way we use these things.There&#39;s another piece of the puzzle,which Ann Cooper talked about beautifully yesterday,and one you already know.
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:这些都不是问题 — 都不是 — 所谓的生活方式的疾病 —糖尿病，心脏病，中风，几种癌症 —这些疾病在这里是过分普遍了相比世界的其他地方。这就是西方饮食的直接结果。我们对于肉类，乳类和纯净的碳水化合物的需求 —世界平均每天消耗十亿听或瓶的可乐 —我们对于这些东西的需求并不是必须的，而是我们想要的 —使我们消耗了比最佳摄入量更多的卡路里。这些在食品中的卡路里导致，而不是预防疾病。现在世界变暖还是不可预期的。我们尚不确定污染除了降低能见度外还有其他什么危害。可能会在这里或那里造成更多的肺癌，但是你知道，这并不是一件很严重的事情。可是，现在的健康问题，比一个邪恶帝国的危害还要严重。我们被告知，并且我们确信，随着我们摄入更多的肉类，乳类和家禽类食品，我们会变得更健康。
en:There&#39;s no question, none, that so-called lifestyle diseases —diabetes, heart disease, stroke, some cancers —are diseases that are far more prevalent herethan anywhere in the rest of the world.And that&#39;s the direct result of eating a Western diet.Our demand for meat, dairy and refined carbohydrates —the world consumes one billion cans or bottles of Coke a day —our demand for these things, not our need, our want,drives us to consume way more calories than are good for us.And those calories are in foods that cause, not prevent, disease.Now global warming was unforeseen.We didn&#39;t know that pollution did more than cause bad visibility.Maybe a few lung diseases here and there,but, you know, that&#39;s not such a big deal.The current health crisis, however,is a little more the work of the evil empire.We were told, we were assured,that the more meat and dairy and poultry we ate,the healthier we&#39;d be.
时间： 3:33
zh-cn:这是错的。对动物的过度食用，当然还有垃圾食品，是问题所在，还有对植物类食品的摄入不足。现在不是讨论使用植物是否有益的时候了，有证据表明植物 — 我想要强调一下 —而不是植物中的成分，是植物本身。不是β胡萝卜素，而是胡萝卜本身。有充分证据表明植物可以改善健康状况。现在这种证据更加充分。你吃了更多的植物，更少的其他食物，你就会更加长寿。这算是个还不错的消息。但是问题又回到了动物和垃圾食品。它们有什么共同的特点呢？第一：我们为了健康并不需要它们中的任何一个。我们并不需要动物制品，而且我们完全不需要白面包或可乐。第二：这两种东西都在被广泛地推销，导致了不正常的需求。我们并不是在耸人听闻。第三：它们的制造得到政府部门的支持，但是以少食用更健康和环保的食品为代价。
en:No. Overconsumption of animals, and of course, junk food,is the problem, along with our paltry consumption of plants.Now, there&#39;s no time to get into the benefits of eating plants here,but the evidence is that plants — and I want to make this clear —it&#39;s not the ingredients in plants, it&#39;s the plants.It&#39;s not the beta-carotene, it&#39;s the carrot.The evidence is very clear that plants promote health.This evidence is overwhelming at this point.You eat more plants, you eat less other stuff, you live longer.Not bad.But back to animals and junk food.What do they have in common?One: we don&#39;t need either of them for health.We don&#39;t need animal products,and we certainly don&#39;t need white bread or Coke.Two: both have been marketed heavily,creating unnatural demand.We&#39;re not born craving Whoppers or Skittles.Three: their production has been supported by government agenciesat the expense of a more health- and Earth-friendly diet.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:现在打个比方。如果我们的政府支持一个石油公司同时反对更加可持续发展的能源，并且知道这将导致污染，战争和更高的成本。很不可思议，不是吗？但是现在他们正在这样做。他们对食品也是如此。这是同样的事情。坏消息是，对于饮食问题，就算是联邦政府用心去规范我们的行为，也是徒劳的。他们或者会被从事农产品业的傀儡们投否决票，或者他们本身就从事于农产品业的傀儡。所以当美国农业部最终承认是植物，而不是动物，使得人们更加健康，他们建议我们，通过参照他们构建的过于简陋的食品金字塔，一天吃五份的水果和蔬菜，和更多的碳水化合物。但是他们没有告诉我们有些碳水化合物比其他的更好，并且这些植物和全谷类食物应当替代垃圾食品。但是工业界的说客不会让这一切发生。猜猜为什么？制定食品金字塔中一半的人与农产品业有关联。所以并没有用植物替代动物，我们已经膨胀的胃口变得更大了，并且其中最危险的部分仍未改变。所谓的低脂肪和低碳水化合物食品 —这些并不是解决方案。
en:Now, let&#39;s imagine a parallel.Let&#39;s pretend that our government supported an oil-based economy,while discouraging more sustainable forms of energy,knowing all the while that the result would bepollution, war and rising costs.Incredible, isn&#39;t it?Yet they do that.And they do this here. It&#39;s the same deal.The sad thing is, when it comes to diet,is that even when well-intentioned Fedstry to do right by us, they fail.Either they&#39;re outvoted by puppets of agribusiness,or they are puppets of agribusiness.So, when the USDA finally acknowledgedthat it was plants, rather than animals, that made people healthy,they encouraged us, via their overly simplistic food pyramid,to eat five servings of fruits and vegetables a day,along with more carbs.What they didn&#39;t tell us is that some carbs are better than others,and that plants and whole grainsshould be supplanting eating junk food.But industry lobbyists would never let that happen.And guess what?Half the people who developed the food pyramidhave ties to agribusiness.So, instead of substituting plants for animals,our swollen appetites simply became larger,and the most dangerous aspects of them remained unchanged.So-called low-fat diets, so-called low-carb diets —these are not solutions.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:但是许多有智慧的人研究某种食物是否有机或本地生产，或者我们是否要友善地对待动物，最重要的问题却并没有被涉及。现在，不要误会我。我喜爱动物，并且我并不认为应当将动物制品产业化干扰动物的生活。但是现在根本无法善待动物当一年要屠杀100亿头动物的时候。这是我们的数字。100亿。如果你将它们连接起来 —鸡，牛，猪和羊 — 到月球，长度可以来回5次 — 过去然后回来。现在，尽管我的数学不是很好，但这个数字大致是没问题的，尽管基于一头猪的长度是4英尺还是5英尺，但是你可以有一个大致的概念。这仅仅是对于美国的情况而言。并且随着我们对于这些动物的过度消耗产生温室气体和心脏疾病，仁慈可能仅仅是一种逃避的方式。让我们降低被屠杀的动物的数量，然后我们再去想如何善待幸存的动物。
en:But with lots of intelligent peoplefocusing on whether food is organic or local,or whether we&#39;re being nice to animals,the most important issues just aren&#39;t being addressed.Now, don&#39;t get me wrong.I like animals,and I don&#39;t think it&#39;s just fine to industrialize their productionand to churn them out like they were wrenches.But there&#39;s no way to treat animals well,when you&#39;re killing 10 billion of them a year.That&#39;s our number. 10 billion.If you strung all of them —chickens, cows, pigs and lambs — to the moon,they&#39;d go there and back five times, there and back.Now, my math&#39;s a little shaky, but this is pretty good,and it depends whether a pig is four feet long or five feet long,but you get the idea.That&#39;s just the United States.And with our hyper-consumption of those animalsproducing greenhouse gases and heart disease,kindness might just be a bit of a red herring.Let&#39;s get the numbers of the animals we&#39;re killing for eating down,and then we&#39;ll worry about being nice to the ones that are left.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:另外一个误区的典型代表是“土食主义”，刚被新牛津美国词典提名为年度单词。很严肃的话题。土食主义者，对于你们之中不了解的人来说，是一些只吃当地生产的食品的人。当你居住在加利福尼亚州时这很好，但是对于其他地区的人来说这是一个悲哀的玩笑。在官方的故事 — 饮食金字塔 —和前卫的土食主义文化，你有两个可以改善饮食的选择。（笑声）
en:Another red herring might be exemplified by the word &quot;locavore,&quot;which was just named word of the year by the New Oxford American Dictionary.Seriously.And locavore, for those of you who don&#39;t know,is someone who eats only locally grown food —which is fine if you live in California,but for the rest of us it&#39;s a bit of a sad joke.Between the official story — the food pyramid —and the hip locavore vision,you have two versions of how to improve our eating.(Laughter).
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:但是这两种方式都错了。第一种方式至少是大众性的，第二种则是只针对小部分团体。我们如何走到今天这一步正是美国饮食的发展史。然后我将对其进行阐述，至少在离现在很近的大概一百年前的时间。猜猜一百年前怎么样？每个人都是土食者，即使是纽约旁边也有大型的农场同时往其他地方运输食品是一个很异想天开的想法。每一个家庭都有一个厨师，通常是母亲。这些母亲购买并准备食物。这就像你所想象的欧洲浪漫的场景。人造黄油并不存在。事实上，当发明人造黄油时，几个州通过法律命令人造黄油要染成粉红色我们都知道它是假的那时并没有快餐，并且直到二十年代，直到克拉伦斯·博兹艾的出现，冷冻食物才发明。那时没有连锁的餐厅。当时只有当地人在家附近经营的餐厅，但是没人想过再开另一家餐厅。饮食文化更是前所未闻。同时花式食物全部是源自法国。另外，你记起的那个丹·艾克罗伊德在二十世纪七十年代模仿朱莉娅·蔡尔德可以看出他就是这个样子。（笑声）
en:They both get it wrong, though.The first at least is populist, and the second is elitist.How we got to this place is the history of food in the United States.And I&#39;m going to go through that,at least the last hundred years or so, very quickly right now.A hundred years ago, guess what?Everyone was a locavore: even New York had pig farms nearby,and shipping food all over the place was a ridiculous notion.Every family had a cook, usually a mom.And those moms bought and prepared food.It was like your romantic vision of Europe.Margarine didn&#39;t exist.In fact, when margarine was invented,several states passed laws declaring that it had to be dyed pink,so we&#39;d all know that it was a fake.There was no snack food, and until the &#39;20s,until Clarence Birdseye came along, there was no frozen food.There were no restaurant chains.There were neighborhood restaurants run by local people,but none of them would think to open another one.Eating ethnic was unheard of unless you were ethnic.And fancy food was entirely French.As an aside, those of you who rememberDan Aykroyd in the 1970s doing Julia Child imitationscan see where he got the idea of stabbing himself from this fabulous slide.(Laughter)
时间： 8:43
zh-cn:在那些时候，即便是朱莉娅的时代之前，当时不存在对于食物的学问。你只是在吃。你不用宣称什么其他的东西。当时没有市场。没有全国性的品牌。维生素还没有发明。那时没有关于健康的宣言，至少不是像联邦上禁止那样。脂肪，碳水化合物，蛋白质 — 它们既不是好的也不是坏的，它们只是食物。你只是在吃食物。基本没有一种东西包含多于一种成分，仅仅因为其本身只是一种成分。玉米片也没有发明。（笑声）也没有蛋挞，普林格尔，当维兹之类的东西。金鱼还在游动。（笑声）这不难想象。人们种植食物并吃种的食物。并且每个人都吃当地产的食物。在纽约，桔子是一种很普遍的圣诞礼物，因为桔子要从遥远的佛罗里达州运过来。从三十年代开始，公路系统飞速发展，货车代替了铁路，更多的新鲜食物被运输。在纽约桔子也变得很常见了。南方和西方成为农业的中心，在美国的其他地方城镇代替了耕地。这种做法的影响已经是众所周知的了，并且到处都不例外。家庭农场的消亡是这个问题的一部分,但也几乎是全部自从真实的地域生活方式的消亡即使在夏天也很难找到一个很好的西红柿。最终加利福尼亚州生产了太多的食物以至于不能新鲜地运输出去，所以灌装和冷冻食品就很有推广的必要了。这带来了方便。典型的女权主义的家庭主妇们接受它她们认为这是减轻家庭劳务的一个途径
en:Back in those days, before even Julia,back in those days, there was no philosophy of food.You just ate.You didn&#39;t claim to be anything.There was no marketing. There were no national brands.Vitamins had not been invented.There were no health claims, at least not federally sanctioned ones.Fats, carbs, proteins — they weren&#39;t bad or good, they were food.You ate food.Hardly anything contained more than one ingredient,because it was an ingredient.The cornflake hadn&#39;t been invented.(Laughter)The Pop-Tart, the Pringle, Cheez Whiz, none of that stuff.Goldfish swam.(Laughter)It&#39;s hard to imagine. People grew food, and they ate food.And again, everyone ate local.In New York, an orange was a common Christmas present,because it came all the way from Florida.From the &#39;30s on, road systems expanded,trucks took the place of railroads,fresh food began to travel more.Oranges became common in New York.The South and West became agricultural hubs,and in other parts of the country, suburbs took over farmland.The effects of this are well known. They are everywhere.And the death of family farms is part of this puzzle,as is almost everythingfrom the demise of the real communityto the challenge of finding a good tomato, even in summer.Eventually, California produced too much food to ship fresh,so it became critical to market canned and frozen foods.Thus arrived convenience.It was sold to proto-feminist housewivesas a way to cut down on housework.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:现在，我知道每个45岁以的人嘴里开始在流口水了（笑声）（掌声）我们会吃一块索尔斯伯利牛肉饼，甚至更多，难道不是吗？（笑声）这可能会减少家庭劳务的工作量，但是也减少了我们吃的食物的多样性。我们之中的许多人都从未食用过新鲜的蔬菜除了偶尔吃些生萝卜或者是比较少见的生菜沙拉。我就是这样 — 我没有开玩笑 —直到19岁时才吃到真正的菠菜和椰菜。谁还需要这些呢？到处都有肉类的存在。难道还有更简单，更能填饱肚子，更有益于家庭健康的方式除了烤牛排？但是那时牛已经被非自然的方式饲养了。不是吃草，就像它们的胃所设计的那样，而是被强迫食用大豆和谷物。他们当然很难消化这些东西，但是这对于生产者们来讲不是问题。新型药物维持动物的健康。呃，是使动物们生存下去。健康是另一回事。
en:Now, I know everybody over the age of, like 45 —their mouths are watering at this point.(Laughter)(Applause)If we had a slide of Salisbury steak, even more so, right?(Laughter)But this may have cut down on housework,but it cut down on the variety of food we ate as well.Many of us grew up never eating a fresh vegetableexcept the occasional raw carrot or maybe an odd lettuce salad.I, for one — and I&#39;m not kidding —didn&#39;t eat real spinach or broccoli till I was 19.Who needed it though? Meat was everywhere.What could be easier, more filling or healthier for your familythan broiling a steak?But by then cattle were already raised unnaturally.Rather than spending their lives eating grass,for which their stomachs were designed,they were forced to eat soy and corn.They have trouble digesting those grains, of course,but that wasn&#39;t a problem for producers.New drugs kept them healthy.Well, they kept them alive.Healthy was another story.
时间：11:20
zh-cn:由于农场的津贴，农产品业与国会的合作，大豆，谷物和牛占据了主导地位。同时鸡也迅速地加入了其中。就是在这段时间里饮食循环的形成和地球的破坏开始了，但直到现在人们才认识到这一点。听着，在1950年到2000年之间，世界人口数量多了一倍。肉类的消耗达到了5倍。现在，有些人只吃这类食物，于是产生了快餐。这就造成了这种很严重的局面。家庭烹饪还是常态，但是质量却与往日不可同日而语。很少有人自制面包，甜点和汤，因为在哪里它们都可以买得到。并不是因为它们有益处，而是因为它们可以买得到。许多母亲像我一样做饭 —一块烤肉，一个简易的瓶装沙拉，罐装汤，罐装水果沙拉。可能还有烤土豆或者土豆泥或者可能是最愚蠢的食物 — 一分钟米饭。甜点则是商店里买回来的冰激凌或小点心。我妈妈不在这里，所以现在我可以说这些话。这样的做饭迫使我去学会如何自己做饭。（笑声）
en:Thanks to farm subsidies,the fine collaboration between agribusiness and Congress,soy, corn and cattle became king.And chicken soon joined them on the throne.It was during this period that the cycle ofdietary and planetary destruction began,the thing we&#39;re only realizing just now.Listen to this,between 1950 and 2000, the world&#39;s population doubled.Meat consumption increased five-fold.Now, someone had to eat all that stuff, so we got fast food.And this took care of the situation resoundingly.Home cooking remained the norm, but its quality was down the tubes.There were fewer meals with home-cooked breads, desserts and soups,because all of them could be bought at any store.Not that they were any good, but they were there.Most moms cooked like mine:a piece of broiled meat, a quickly made salad with bottled dressing,canned soup, canned fruit salad.Maybe baked or mashed potatoes,or perhaps the stupidest food ever, Minute Rice.For dessert, store-bought ice cream or cookies.My mom is not here, so I can say this now.This kind of cooking drove me to learn how to cook for myself.(Laughter)
时间：12:37
zh-cn:这也并非一无是处。在七十年代，前卫的人们开始认识到当地产的原料的价值。我们管理庄园，同时对有机食物更感兴趣，我们知道或者我们就是素食主义者。但我们也不是嬉皮士。我们当中的有些人在好的餐厅里吃并且学会怎样做一手好的烹饪。同时，食品制造变得工业化。工业化。可能因为食品制造过于理性，就像是塑料一样，食品开始变得奇幻或有毒，或者两者都有。许多人厌恶脂肪。其他人像对待上帝一样崇拜着花椰菜。但是多数情况下他们并不食用花椰菜。而是喝酸奶，酸奶变得几乎和花椰菜一样有益。除了在现实中，工厂销售酸奶是将其转化成更像是冰激凌的一种东西。同样的，让我们看一下燕麦杆。你可能会认为它们是健康的食物，但事实上，如果你去看原料表，它更像是士力架而不是燕麦。可怕的是，在这时家庭饮食陷入了混乱，如果是没有被彻底破坏的话。在含有添加剂食品最多的开始的时候，这包括了许多大豆和谷类食品含有添加剂。
en:It wasn&#39;t all bad.By the &#39;70s, forward-thinking peoplebegan to recognize the value of local ingredients.We tended gardens, we became interested in organic food,we knew or we were vegetarians.We weren&#39;t all hippies, either.Some of us were eating in good restaurants and learning how to cook well.Meanwhile, food production had become industrial. Industrial.Perhaps because it was being produced rationally,as if it were plastic,food gained magical or poisonous powers, or both.Many people became fat-phobic.Others worshiped broccoli, as if it were God-like.But mostly they didn&#39;t eat broccoli.Instead they were sold on yogurt,yogurt being almost as good as broccoli.Except, in reality, the way the industry sold yogurtwas to convert it to something much more akin to ice cream.Similarly, let&#39;s look at a granola bar.You think that that might be healthy food,but in fact, if you look at the ingredient list,it&#39;s closer in form to a Snickers than it is to oatmeal.Sadly, it was at this time that the family dinner was put in a coma,if not actually killed —the beginning of the heyday of value-added food,which contained as many soy and corn productsas could be crammed into it.
时间：13:51
zh-cn:想一想冷冻的鸡肉块。鸡是用谷物饲养的，然后长出肉并吃更多的谷物继续成长，然后用谷物油去炸。你所做的只是烹饪它。还能更好吗？并且屠杀很残忍，惨无人道。在七十年代，家庭烹饪变成了这样一种糟糕的状态高脂肪和香料的食物如麦纳吉兹和浩特波奇兹 —实际上我们都有自己的最爱 —使得这类食品比没有添加剂的食品更有吸引力如家庭里的食物。与此同时，更多的女人参加工作，烹饪又不那么重要要让男人来承担。所以现在我们在晚上吃比萨，用微波炉加热食品，去大吃大喝，自给自足，等等。
en:Think of the frozen chicken nugget.The chicken is fed corn, and then its meat is ground up,and mixed with more corn products to add bulk and binder,and then it&#39;s fried in corn oil.All you do is nuke it. What could be better?And zapped horribly, pathetically.By the &#39;70s, home cooking was in such a sad statethat the high fat and spice contents of foodslike McNuggets and Hot Pockets —and we all have our favorites, actually —made this stuff more appealing than the bland thingsthat people were serving at home.At the same time, masses of women were entering the workforce,and cooking simply wasn&#39;t important enoughfor men to share the burden.So now, you&#39;ve got your pizza nights, you&#39;ve got your microwave nights,you&#39;ve got your grazing nights,you&#39;ve got your fend-for-yourself nights and so on.
时间：14:42
zh-cn:变得主导 — 什么是主导呢？肉类，垃圾食品，奶酪。这些食品会减少你的寿命。所以我们现在倡导有机食品。这很好。有证据表明现在事情正在改变`，在超市中你可以见到有机食品，甚至在快餐市场里。但是有机食品并不是解决办法，至少不像它现在被认为的那样。让我提个问题。农场饲养的大马哈鱼能否是有机的当饲料并不是自然的食品，即便饲料是有机的，那些鱼本身在围栏里紧紧地围在一起，在它们的排泄物中游动？如果大马哈鱼是来自智利，并且在智利被宰，然后运输5000英里，在大气中会增加多少碳？我不清楚。当然用发泡胶包裹着，在美国的某个地方卸货之前然后运往几百英里外的其他地方。从定义上来讲这可能是有机的，但从本质上并不是。现在这就是我们所面对的。土食主义，有机食品主义，素食主义，绝对素食者，美食家和我们当中对健康食品感兴趣的那些人。即便我们的出发点不尽相同，我们都要利用我们的知识去行动改变每个人对于食品的认识。
en:Leading the way — what&#39;s leading the way?Meat, junk food, cheese:the very stuff that will kill you.So, now we clamor for organic food.That&#39;s good.And as evidence that things can actually change,you can now find organic food in supermarkets,and even in fast-food outlets.But organic food isn&#39;t the answer either,at least not the way it&#39;s currently defined.Let me pose you a question.Can farm-raised salmon be organic,when its feed has nothing to do with its natural diet,even if the feed itself is supposedly organic, and the fish themselvesare packed tightly in pens, swimming in their own filth?And if that salmon&#39;s from Chile, and it&#39;s killed down thereand then flown 5,000 miles, whatever,dumping how much carbon into the atmosphere?I don&#39;t know.Packed in Styrofoam, of course,before landing somewhere in the United States,and then being trucked a few hundred more miles.This may be organic in letter, but it&#39;s surely not organic in spirit.Now here is where we all meet.The locavores, the organivores, the vegetarians,the vegans, the gourmetsand those of us who are just plain interested in good food.Even though we&#39;ve come to this from different points,we all have to act on our knowledgeto change the way that everyone thinks about food.
时间：16:07
zh-cn:我们需要开始行动了。这就像安·库珀所说的，并不仅仅是一个有关社会正义感的问题 —当然她是完全正确的 —而且也是有关整体存亡的问题。我们回到问题的关键，对于肉类和垃圾食品的过度制造和过度消耗。就像我说的，百分之十八的温室气体由畜牧业产生。需要多少资源产生这些量呢？地球上百分之七十的可耕种土地。地表上百分之三十的面积都直接或间接地用在饲养我们所吃的动物上。在未来的40年左右的时间这个数字还将翻倍。
en:We need to start acting.And this is not only an issue of social justice, as Ann Cooper said —and, of course, she&#39;s completely right —but it&#39;s also one of global survival.Which bring me full circle and points directly to the core issue,the overproduction and overconsumption of meat and junk food.As I said, 18 percent of greenhouse gasesare attributed to livestock production.How much livestock do you need to produce this?70 percent of the agricultural land on Earth,30 percent of the Earth&#39;s land surface is directly or indirectly devotedto raising the animals we&#39;ll eat.And this amount is predicted to double in the next 40 years or so.
时间：16:50
zh-cn:并且如果中国的数字还和现在一样的话，根本用不了40年的时间。我们并没有足够的理由去吃那么多肉类。我想说的是一个在一生中吃适量的谷物产生的牛肉的男人。最多的借口是我们需要汲取营养 —即便我们平均食用了两倍的和工业紧密联系的美国农业部的建议摄入量。但是请听 — 专注于减少疾病的专家们建议成人每周吃半磅多一点的肉类。
en:And if the numbers coming in from Chinaare anything like what they look like now,it&#39;s not going to be 40 years.There is no good reason for eating as much meat as we do.And I say this as a man who has eaten a fair share of corned beef in his life.The most common argument is that we need nutrients —even though we eat, on average, twice as much proteinas even the industry-obsessed USDA recommends.But listen: experts who are serious about disease reductionrecommend that adults eat just over half a pound of meat per week.
时间：17:27
zh-cn:我们现在每天吃多少？半磅。但是难道我们不需要肉类来变得强壮吗？肉类对健康不是必需的吗？过多水果和蔬菜的饮食会不会使我们变成无神论者，缺乏阳刚之气，自由论者？（笑声）我们当中的有些人可能认为这会是一件好事情。但不是这样，即使我们都是需要激烈运动的橄榄球运动员，答案也是否定的。实际上，地球上没有任何饮食能够满足基本的营养需求而不会有助于成长，同时许多会使我们变得比现在更健康。我们并不需要动物制品来获得足够的营养，我们过多食用它们只会变得营养不良，并且减少我们的寿命。建议为了个人和整个人类的健康美国人少吃一半的肉类 —这尽管并不是足够的削减，但是一个崭新的开始。
en:What do you think we eat per day? Half a pound.But don&#39;t we need meat to be big and strong?Isn&#39;t meat eating essential to health?Won&#39;t a diet heavy in fruit and vegetablesturn us into godless, sissy, liberals?(Laughter)Some of us might think that would be a good thing.But, no, even if we were all steroid-filled football players,the answer is no.In fact, there&#39;s no diet on Earth that meetsbasic nutritional needs that won&#39;t promote growth,and many will make you much healthier than ours does.We don&#39;t eat animal products for sufficient nutrition,we eat them to have an odd form of malnutrition, and it&#39;s killing us.To suggest that in the interests of personal and human healthAmericans eat 50 percent less meat —it&#39;s not enough of a cut, but it&#39;s a start.
时间：18:22
zh-cn:尽管这看起来很荒唐，但这却真真切切是现在应该发生的事，和激进的，前卫的人们应当做和倡导的事，和相应更多地食用植物。我一直是比较随意地写些关于食物的文章 —就是这个样子 — 大概有30年了。在这其间， 我吃并且建议吃几乎所有的东西时。我确信我以后并不会停止吃动物食品，但是我想为了每个人的利益，现在是时候停止将动物产业化饲养并且停止随意地食用它们。
en:It would seem absurd, but that&#39;s exactly what should happen,and what progressive people, forward-thinking peopleshould be doing and advocating,along with the corresponding increase in the consumption of plants.I&#39;ve been writing about food more or less omnivorously —one might say indiscriminately — for about 30 years.During that time, I&#39;ve eatenand recommended eating just about everything.I&#39;ll never stop eating animals, I&#39;m sure,but I do think that for the benefit of everyone,the time has come to stop raising them industriallyand stop eating them thoughtlessly.
时间：18:59
zh-cn:安·库珀是正确的。在这方面美国农业部并不是我们的同盟。我们需要去自己把握，不仅仅是向每个人提倡一种更好的饮食 —这是很困难的 — 并且改善我们自己的饮食。这个可以很容易实现。更少的肉类，垃圾食品，更多的植物。这是一个很简单的准则 — 吃食物。吃真正的食物。我们可以继续去享受我们的食物，我们可以继续吃得很好，甚至更好。我们可以继续寻找我们喜爱的成分，并且我们可以讲关于我们喜爱的食物的故事。我们减少的不仅是卡路里，而且是碳的痕迹。我们可以使食物变得更加重要，而不是贬值并且通过这种行为拯救我们自己。我们必须要选择这条道路谢谢。
en:Ann Cooper&#39;s right.The USDA is not our ally here.We have to take matters into our own hands,not only by advocating for a better diet for everyone —and that&#39;s the hard part — but by improving our own.And that happens to be quite easy.Less meat, less junk, more plants.It&#39;s a simple formula: eat food.Eat real food.We can continue to enjoy our food, and we continue to eat well,and we can eat even better.We can continue the search for the ingredients we love,and we can continue to spin yarns about our favorite meals.We&#39;ll reduce not only calories, but our carbon footprint.We can make food more important, not less,and save ourselves by doing so.We have to choose that path.Thank you.
