时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我今天跟大家谈谈我对于假死的研究工作。通常当我提到“假死状态”，人们会报以叹息和笑声。但是现在，我不是要把人送到火星甚至潘多拉星球，不管那有多好玩。我要谈的是利用假死帮助创伤患者治疗。
en:I&#39;m going to talk to you today about my work on suspended animation.Now, usually when I mention suspended animation,people will flash me the Vulcan sign and laugh.But now, I&#39;m not talking about gorking people outto fly to Mars or even Pandora,as much fun as that may be.I&#39;m talking aboutthe concept of using suspended animationto help people out in trauma.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:那么，当我说到“假死”我是什么意思呢？这是一个过程，在此过程中动物不动了，看上去死了，然后却可以醒来，并且没有受到伤害。好了，这里就要说说我的想法。大家如果留意自然界，会把假死状态看作是长生不死。所以，这里我想说是用某种方法让创伤患者失去活力这样他们就多少有一点可以长生不老当他们的心脏病发作。
en:So what do I meanwhen I say &quot;suspended animation&quot;?It is the process by whichanimals de-animate,appear deadand then can wake up again without being harmed.OK, so here is the sort of big idea:If you look out at nature,you find thatas you tend to see suspended animation,you tend to see immortality.And so, what I&#39;m going to tell you aboutis a way to tell a person who&#39;s in trauma —find a way to de-animate them a bitso they&#39;re a little more immortalwhen they have that heart attack.
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:有一两种生物体是有这种不朽的情况的比如植物种子或细菌孢子。这些生物是我们这个星球上最不朽的生命形式，它们一生大部分时间都处于假死状态。现在科学家认为细菌孢子是活着的单个细胞，但是在假死状态，它们可以处于这种状态长达2.50亿年。这是有关一种很微小的动物的，我希望把实验对象拿到离家很近的地方。对于人类来说这种不朽的种子就像是卵巢里的卵子，它们实际上是处于假死或休眠状态而且可以在每个妇女的一生中在它们身体里存在长达50年。
en:An example of an organism or twothat happens to be quite immortalwould be plant seedsor bacterial spores.These creatures aresome of the most immortal life forms on our planet,and they tend to spend most of their timein suspended animation.Bacterial spores are thought now by scientiststo exist as individual cellsthat are alive, but in suspended animationfor as long as 250 million years.To suggest that this all, sort of, about little, tiny creatures,I want to bring it close to home.In the immortal germ lineof human beings —that is, the eggs that sit in the ovaries —they actually sit there in a state of suspended animationfor up to 50 years in the life of each woman.
时间： 2:22
zh-cn:关于假死，我还有一个最喜欢的例子。就是一种叫“海猴”的虾。在座的各位如果有孩子，你知道这东西。你在宠物商店或玩具店，可以买到这种东西。回到家只需打开袋子，把它们倒到塑料水族箱里，过大约一个星期左右，就会看到有小虾游动。我并不是对游泳特别感兴趣。我感兴趣的是在袋子里发生了什么，这样的袋子会在玩具商店货架上里面的虾会在那里一直处于假死状态。所以，这些关于假死的想法不只是关于销售和古怪的小生物。
en:So then there&#39;s also my favorite exampleof suspended animation.This is Sea-Monkeys.Those of you with children,you know about them.You go to the pet store or the toy store,and you can buy these things.You just open the bag, and you just dump theminto the plastic aquarium,and in about a week or so, you&#39;ll have little shrimps swimming around.Well, I wasn&#39;t so interested in the swimming.I was interested in what was going on in the bag,the bag on the toy store shelfwhere those shrimp satin suspended animation indefinitely.So these ideas of suspended animationare not just about cells and weird, little organisms.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:有时，人也会短暂地失去活性，最让我感兴趣的人短暂失去活性的例子是那些与寒冷有关的实例。10年前，在挪威有一个滑雪者被困在冰冷的瀑布中。她在那里两个小时后才被救出来。她身上非常冷，已经没有心跳。在所有的意义上，她已经是死了，冻死了。7个小时后，仍然没有心跳，人们救活了她，她后来成了救治她的那家医院的放射科的主任。
en:Occasionally, human beingsare briefly de-animated,and the stories of people who are briefly de-animatedthat interest me the mostare those having to do with the cold.Ten years ago, there was a skier in Norwaythat was trapped in an icy waterfall,and she was there for two hours before they extracted her.She was extremely cold,and she had no heartbeat —for all intents and purposes she was dead, frozen.Seven hours later,still without a heartbeat,they brought her back to life, and she went on to bethe head radiologistin the hospital that treated her.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:两三年后——我对这种事情特别感兴趣——大约一两年后，加拿大有一个13个月大的小孩。当时是冬天，她爸爸出去上夜班，结果她跟着到了外面，什么也没穿，只是裹着纸尿裤。几个小时后人们发现了她已经冻死了。可人们让她起死回生了。
en:A couple of years later —so I get really excited about these things —about a couple of years later,there was a 13-month-old, she was from Canada.Her father had gone out in the wintertime; he was working night shift,and she followed him outside in nothing but a diaper.And they found her hours later,frozen, lifeless,and they brought her back to life.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:还有一名65岁女性去年在明尼苏达州德卢斯人们发现她在自己家的院子里冻死了，没有了脉搏，可人们也救活了她。第二天，她身体恢复得很好，医生想给她做个检查。可她根本不听医生的，自个儿跑回家了。(笑声.)
en:There was a 65-year-old womanin Duluth, Minnesota last yearthat was found frozen and without a pulsein her front yard one morning in the winter,and they brought her back to life.The next day, she was doing so well, they wanted to run tests on her.She got cranky and just went home.(Laughter)
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:对，这些是奇迹，没错。这是确实发生过的真正的奇迹般的事情。医生有一种说法“如果你不是身体暖暖和和的死了，就没有真死。”确实如此。真的。在《新英格兰医学杂志》上，发表的一项研究显示，只要适当复温，那些3个小时没有心跳的患者，可以活过来，而且没有任何神经系统的问题。这个比例在百分之五十以上。因此，我试图做的就是想办法来研究假死是找到一种方法也许可以重复，那位滑雪者的经历。
en:So, these are miracles, right?These are truly miraculous things that happen.Doctors have a sayingthat, in fact, &quot;You&#39;re not dead until you&#39;re warm and dead.&quot;And it&#39;s true. It&#39;s true.In the New England Journal of Medicine,there was a study published that showedthat with appropriate rewarming,people who had suffered without a heartbeat for three hourscould be brought back to life without any neurologic problems.That&#39;s over 50 percent.So what I was trying to do is think of a waythat we could studysuspended animationto think about a wayto reproduce, maybe,what happened to the skier.
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:嗯，我还必须告诉大家一件很奇怪的事，是有关暴露于低氧环境却并不一定让人死亡的事。在这个礼堂里，空气中有百分之二十左右的氧气。如果我们降低氧浓度，我们大家都将死亡。而且，事实上，我们在实验室中做实验的动物，那些小花园虫，线虫，当它们被暴露在低氧环境中，也会死亡。但下面这件事会让大家感觉匪夷所思。那就是，当我们进一步降低氧浓度100倍，达到每百万单位中只有10个氧单位，它们就不会死，而是进入假死状态，而且我们可以使它们重新活过来，没有任何伤害。这一特定的氧浓度，百万分之10，可以造成假死状态，这个比例是恒定的。在许多不同的生物身上都能看到这种情况。其中的一种生物就是鱼。我们可以通过让鱼进入和脱离假死状态对其心脏进行“开”“关”操作。
en:Well, I have to tell you something very odd,and that is that being exposed to low oxygendoes not always kill.So, in this room, there&#39;s 20 percent oxygen or so,and if we reduce the oxygen concentration,we will all be dead.And, in fact, the animals we were working with in the lab —these little garden worms, nematodes —they were also dead when we exposed them to low oxygen.And here&#39;s the thing that should freak you out.And that is that, when we lower the oxygen concentration furtherby 100 times, to 10 parts per million,they were not dead,they were in suspended animation,and we could bring them back to life without any harm.And this precise oxygen concentration,10 parts per million,that caused suspended animation,is conserved.We can see it in a variety of different organisms.One of the creatures we see it inis a fish.And we can turn its heartbeat on and off by going in and outof suspended animation like you would a light switch.
时间： 5:59
zh-cn:我们居然可以做到这一点，这让我感到非常震惊。所以，我想知道，当我们试图重现救活那位滑雪者的经历的时候，我们注意到她没有消耗氧气，所以也许她是处于一种类似假死状态。但是，当然，她体温也十分低。因此，我们不知道如果把假死的动物暴露于寒冷之下会发生什么。因此，我们发现如果你将活蹦乱跳的动物比如你和我，给他们降温——比如，这些蚯蚓——这样它们都死了。但是，如果你使它们进入假死状态，然后再把它们冷冻，它们就还会活着。这里就是最重要的事：如果你想渡过严寒，你应该暂停生命。对吧？这简直太好了。
en:So this was pretty shocking to me,that we could do this.And so I was wondering, when we were tryingto reproduce the work with the skier,that we noticed that, of course,she had no oxygen consumption,and so maybe she was in a similar state of suspended animation.But, of course, she was also extremely cold.So we wondered what would happenif we took our suspended animals and exposed them to the cold.And so, what we found outwas that, if you take animalsthat are animated like you and I,and you make them cold — that is, these were the garden worms —now they&#39;re dead.But if you have them in suspended animation,and move them into the cold, they&#39;re all alive.And there&#39;s the very important thing there:If you want to survive the cold,you ought to be suspended. Right?It&#39;s a really good thing.
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:因此，我们考虑这些事情之间的这种关系，并思考那位滑雪者是否就是发生这些事情。因此，我们想知道：是否我们体内有些机制，就是我们自身的某种机制使我们也许能够调整自己的新陈代谢活性这样一来，就能够经受极度的寒冷，而如果没有这种技能，就可能会死去。我想研究一下这些机制到底是什么应该很有意思。对不对？
en:And so, we were thinking about that,about this relationship between these things,and thinking about whether or not that&#39;s what happened to the skier.And so we wondered: Might there be some agentthat is in us, something that we make ourselves,that we might be able to regulate our own metabolic flexibilityin such a way as to be able to survivewhen we got extremely cold, and might otherwise pass away?I thought it might be interesting to sort of hunt for such things.You know?
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:我要在此简要说一下，大家要是阅读生理教科书，会发现书中告诉你，这种说法属于某种邪教。我们从一出娘胎直到临终时刻——这就是当我们死亡时，就会获得新生——我们不能降低自己的代谢率将其降到所谓的标准水平之下，或称“基础代谢率”。但我知道就有这样生物的例子，包括哺乳动物，可以减少其代谢率如地松鼠和熊。它们可以在冬眠的时候降低代谢率。所以，我在想：我们能否找到这样的机制，或许可以触发我们的身体进入这样的状态？
en:I should mention briefly herethat physiology textbooks that you can read aboutwill tell you that this is a kind of heretical thing to suggest.We have, from the time we are slapped on the buttuntil we take our last dying breath —that&#39;s when we&#39;re newborn to when we&#39;re dead —we cannot reduce our metabolic ratebelow what&#39;s called a standard,or basal metabolic rate.But I knew that there were examplesof creatures, also mammals,that do reduce their metabolic ratesuch as ground squirrels and bears,they reduce their metabolic ratein the wintertime when they hibernate.So I wondered: Might we be able to find some agent or triggerthat might induce such a state in us?
时间： 7:56
zh-cn:因此，我们去寻找这些东西。可是在这一段时间，我们经历了很多失败。肯•罗宾逊在这里。他谈到了失败的辉煌。是的，我们遭遇了很多失败。我们尝试过许多不同的化学品，经历过一次又一次失败。有一次，我在家里看电视，我的妻子正哄孩子睡觉，我是在看一个电视节目。这个节目是PBS的NOVA节目关于新墨西哥的一个洞穴。这个洞穴叫做Lechuguilla，这个洞穴对人类具有致命的毒性。研究人员要想进洞必须穿上特殊防护服。洞里充满了硫化氢这种有毒气体。奇怪的是，我们身体里就有硫化氢。我们自己会制造它。浓度最高的地方是我们的大脑。不过，在第一次世界大战期间它曾被用作化学战剂。这种东西毒性特大。事实上，在化学事故中，硫化氢是很出名的——如果你吸入太多，会瞬间倒地，看上去就像是死了，但是如果马上把你带到正常的空气中，你仍可以醒来，而且毫发无损，前提是救援要快。
en:And so, we went looking for such things.And this was a period of time when we failed tremendously.Ken Robinson is here. He talked about the glories of failure.Well, we had a lot of them.We tried many different chemicals and agents,and we failed over and over again.So, one time, I was at homewatching television on the couchwhile my wife was putting our child to bed,and I was watching a television show.It was a television show —it was a NOVA show on PBS —about caves in New Mexico.And this particular cave was Lechuguilla,and this cave is incredibly toxic to humans.The researchers had to suit up just to enter it.It&#39;s filled with this toxic gas,hydrogen sulfide.Now, hydrogen sulfide is curiously present in us.We make it ourselves.The highest concentration is in our brains.Yet, it was usedas a chemical warfare agent in World War I.It&#39;s an extraordinarily toxic thing.In fact, in chemical accidents,hydrogen sulfide is known to —if you breathe too much of it, you collapse to the ground,you appear dead,but if you were brought out into room air, you can be reanimated without harm,if they do that quickly.
时间： 9:14
zh-cn:所以，我想，哇，我要来点这东西。(笑声.)对了，这是911事件后的美国了，你要是进入研究所，和人说：“嗨，我想买一些浓缩的，压缩气瓶存储的致命气体因为我想试试，能否让人进入假死状态。这可有得瞧了。”所以这事儿很难办，但我觉得，这事儿真的是有一定根据的，我就想试一试。正如我所说，我们体内有这样的机制，而且实际上，奇怪的是，它就在我们的细胞内在氧气发生结合，并在你体内燃烧当中，我们是通过燃烧氧气而生活的。所以我们就想，就像做抢椅子游戏那样，也许我们能够给一个人吸一些硫化氢，也许这些硫化氢能够像抢椅子游戏那样占据氧气的位置，由于你无法不能与氧气结合反应，也许就不需要消耗氧气了，这样就可能会减少你对氧的需求。我是说，这事儿谁也拿不准。
en:So, I thought, &quot;Wow, I have to get some of this.&quot;(Laughter)Now, it&#39;s post-9/11 America,and when you go into the research institute,and you say, &quot;Hi.I&#39;d like to buy some concentrated,compressed gas cylindersof a lethal gasbecause I have these ideas, see,about wanting to suspend people.It&#39;s really going to be OK.&quot;So that&#39;s kind of a tough day,but I said, &quot;There really issome basis for thinking why you might want to do this.&quot;As I said, this agent is in us,and, in fact, here&#39;s a curious thing,it binds to the very place inside of your cellswhere oxygen binds, and where you burn it,and that you do this burning to live.And so we thought, like in a game of musical chairs,might we be able to give a personsome hydrogen sulfide,and might it be able to occupy that placelike in a game of musical chairs where oxygen might bind?And because you can&#39;t bind the oxygen,maybe you wouldn&#39;t consume it,and then maybe it would reduce your demand for oxygen.I mean, who knows?
时间：10:27
zh-cn:所以 ——（众笑）因此，这可能和多巴胺有关（大脑中产生满足和快乐的一种化学物质。）虽然只有一点，但也有点属于妄想了吧你可能说就是因为多巴胺的效应。因此，我们希望找出也许我们可以利用硫化氢加上严寒，我们想看看我们能否在哺乳动物身上复现滑雪者死去活来的经历。哺乳动物是温血动物，当我们感到冷的时候会发抖。我们会尽量将体温保持在37度办法就是通过燃烧更多的氧气。因此，让一个处于寒冷中的小鼠呼吸硫化氢时，我们发现了一个有趣的现象。结果小鼠身体的核心温度降低了。它不动了。它看起来死了。它的耗氧率下降了10倍。这里才是最重要的问题。我刚才告诉大家说，我们体内都有硫化氢。它会迅速代谢，处于这种假死状态6小时后，只需将其置于室内空气中，让它暖和过来，它就会活过来，毫发无损。
en:So — (Laughter)So, there&#39;s the bit about the dopamineand being a little bit, what do you call it, delusional,and you might suggest that was it.And so, we wanted to find outmight we be able to usehydrogen sulfide in the presence of cold,and we wanted to see whether we couldreproduce this skier in a mammal.Now, mammals are warm-blooded creatures,and when we get cold, we shake and we shiver, right?We try to keep our core temperature at 37 degreesby actually burning more oxygen.So, it was interesting for uswhen we applied hydrogen sulfideto a mouse when it was also coldbecause what happened is the core temperatureof the mouse got cold.It stopped moving.It appeared dead.Its oxygen consumption ratefell by tenfold.And here&#39;s the really important point.I told you hydrogen sulfide is in us.It&#39;s rapidly metabolized,and all you have to do after six hours of beingin this state of de-animationis simply put the thing out in room air,and it warms up, and it&#39;s none the worse for wear.
时间：11:44
zh-cn:这一规律总是灵验。真的。因为我们已经找到了办法，让哺乳动物进入假死状态。并且不会伤害它。现在，我们找到了一种方法，可以减少动物的耗氧量使其达到最低水平，同时不伤害它们。在这种假死状态下，它不能蹦蹦跳跳了，但它也没有死，而且它并没有受伤。因此，我们开始想：是不是这种东西可能存在于那个滑雪者体内，而且有可能她体内的比别人的更多这可能使她减少了对氧气的需求。在她体温降得过低之前，这一因素起了作用，不然她就死了。——我们前面说的蚯蚓实验就是把蚯蚓冻死了。
en:Now, this was cosmic.Really. Because we had found a wayto de-animate a mammal,and it didn&#39;t hurt it.Now, we&#39;d found a way to reduceits oxygen consumptionto rock-bottom levels, and it was fine.Now, in this state of de-animation,it could not go out dancing,but it was not dead,and it was not harmed.So we started to think: Is this the agentthat might have been present in the skier,and might have she had more of it than someone else,and might that have been able to reduceher demand for oxygenbefore she got so cold thatshe otherwise would have died,as we found out with our worm experiments?
时间：12:35
zh-cn:所以，我们想知道：对于这种控制代谢活性的能力能否好好运用呢？此外，另一个我们想知道的事情——我确信，在座的各位中有一些经济学家，而且大家都知道供需关系。当供给等于需求时，一切都很好，但是当供求降低——在这种情况下就是氧气含量降低——而需求继续保持旺盛，你就死了。因此，我刚才想告诉大家的是我们现在可以减少需求。我们应该把供应降低到前所未有的低水平，而不杀死动物。我们用DARPA的资助，我们可以证明这一点。如果给老鼠吸入硫化氢，就可以降低其对氧的需求，可以把它们放到氧气浓度相当于珠穆朗玛峰顶峰再高五千英尺以上的空气它们可以呆在那里好几个小时，一点问题也没有。嗯，这真的是很酷。我们还发现，我们可以让动物大量失血，达到致命的程度，可仍能拯救它们前提是给它们吸入硫化氢。
en:So, we wondered:Can we do anything usefulwith this capacity tocontrol metabolic flexibility?And one of the things we wondered —I&#39;m sure some of you out there are economists,and you know all about supply and demand.And when supply is equal to demand,everything&#39;s fine,but when supply falls,in this case of oxygen,and demand stays high, you&#39;re dead.So, what I just told youis we can now reduce demand.We ought to be able to lower supplyto unprecedented low levels without killing the animal.And with money we got from DARPA,we could show just that.If you give mice hydrogen sulfide,you can lower their demand for oxygen,and you can put them into oxygen concentrationsthat are as low as 5,000 feet above the top of Mt. Everest,and they can sit there for hours, and there&#39;s no problem.Well this was really cool.We also found out that we could subject animalsto otherwise lethal blood loss, and we could save themif we gave them hydrogen sulfide.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:因此，这些实验所证明的事实促使我想到，我要建立一家公司，我们应该扩大它的使用范围。我成立了一家名为伊卡利亚（Ikaria）的公司当然也有其他人的帮助。而这家公司做的第一件事就是制作出一种硫化氢的液剂这是一种注射药剂，我们可以把它发给世界各地的医生他们在处理危重实验动物病例的时候，会获得积极的效果，结果令人难以置信。
en:So these proof of concept experimentsled me to say &quot;I should found a company,and we should take this out to a wider playing field.&quot;I founded a company called Ikariawith others&#39; help.And this company, the first thing it didwas make a liquid formulation of hydrogen sulfidean injectable form that we could put inand send it out to physician scientists all over the worldwho work on models of critical care medicine,and the results are incredibly positive.
时间：14:09
zh-cn:在一例心脏病案例中，实验动物注射了硫化氢结果，与对照组相比心脏受损比例减少了百分之七十。而我们大家目前在医院能够获得的，都是对照组所获得的标准护理。对于器官功能衰竭的结果也类似比如肾、肝供给不足而造成的功能丧失，以及急性呼吸窘迫综合征和进行心脏搭桥手术而对新增造成的损害等，都可受益于此。因此，全世界创伤医疗的领头人物都认为这确实是真的，这样看来，吸入硫化氢可以减少身体暴露在致命低氧环境中受损的可能性。
en:In one model of heart attack,animals given hydrogen sulfideshowed a 70 percent reduction in heart damagecompared to those who got the standard of care thatyou and I would receive if we were to have a heart attack here today.Same is true for organ failure,when you have loss of function owing to poor perfusion of kidney, of liver,acute respiratory distress syndromeand damage suffered in cardiac-bypass surgery.So, these are the thought leaders in trauma medicineall over the world saying this is true,so it seems that exposure to hydrogen sulfidedecreases damage that you receivefrom being exposed to otherwise lethal-low oxygen.
时间：14:47
zh-cn:而且我需要指出，要达到这种效果所需的硫化氢的浓度非常低，低得令人难以置信。事实上，其浓度如此之低，医生不会明显降低人的新陈代谢率就能看到我刚才所说的好处，这是一个非常好的事情，如果我们考虑采用这种办法的话。当然，我们不想为了救人先把人弄得半死，这是很不好判断(笑声.)
en:And I should say that the concentrations of hydrogen sulfiderequired to get this benefitare low, incredibly low.In fact, so low that physicians will not have to lower or dimthe metabolism of people much at allto see the benefit I just mentioned,which is a wonderful thing, if you&#39;re thinking about adopting this.You don&#39;t want to be gorking people outjust to save them, it&#39;s really confusing.(Laughter)
时间：15:11
zh-cn:我要说的是，我们在进行人体试验。现在，——（掌声。 ）谢谢。第一阶段的安全性研究已经结束，而且我们做得很好，我们现在要继续下一步。我们必须进行第二阶段和第三阶段的试验。这要花费数年的时间。这些都进行得非常快，冬眠小鼠实验是在2005年做的，第一次人类研究是在2008年，几年内，我们就能知道这个办法究竟是否可行。而这一切都发生得非常快因为我们得到了许多的很多帮助。
en:So, I want to say that we&#39;re in human trials.Now, and so —(Applause)Thank you. The Phase 1 safety studies are over,and we&#39;re doing fine, we&#39;re now moved on.We have to get to Phase 2 and Phase 3. It&#39;s going to take us a few years.This has all moved very quickly,and the mouse experimentsof hibernating mice happened in 2005;the first human studies were done in 2008,and we should know in a couple of yearswhether it works or not.And this all happened really quicklybecause of a lot of help from a lot of people.
时间：15:48
zh-cn:首先，我想提一下我的妻子，没有她，我的这个演讲以及这些工作都是不可能的，非常感谢。此外，感谢在我的实验室工作的杰出的科学家们以及华盛顿州西雅图的弗雷德哈钦森癌症研究中心的其他工作人员，感谢这么好的工作场所。还要感谢Ikaria公司的科学家和商界精英。这家公司的人们将这一硫化氢的技术，——这一技术耗资甚巨，因此这个初创公司的风险投资用得很快——他们将其与另一家公司的技术融合那家公司销售另一种有毒气体比硫化氢的毒性还大得多，他们用它治疗某些新生婴儿，这些婴儿本来无法让器官正常吸收氧气，有夭折的危险。这种气体，现在在全世界1000多家危重病医院都有使用，已经获得批准，每年能拯救数千名婴儿免于死亡。（掌声。 ）
en:I want to mention that, first of all,my wife, without whom this talk and my work would not be possible,so thank you very much.Also, the brilliant scientists who work at my laband also others on staff,the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, Washington —wonderful place to work.And also the wonderful scientistsand businesspeople at Ikaria.One thing those people did out therewas take this technology of hydrogen sulfide,which is this start-up company that&#39;s burning venture capital very quickly,and they fused it with another companythat sells another toxic gasthat&#39;s more toxic than hydrogen sulfide,and they give it to newborn babies who would otherwise diefrom a failure to be able to oxygenate their tissues properly.And this gas that is delivered in overa thousand critical care hospitals worldwide,now is approved, on label,and saves thousands of babies a yearfrom certain death.(Applause)
时间：16:45
zh-cn:因此，这真是令人难以置信我竟然也能参与到这样的工作中。我想说，我认为我们正在逐步从根本上了解代谢的灵活性，而且在不太遥远的将来，内科急救专家可能会给遭受严重伤害的病人注射硫化氢或一些相关的化合物，这样的病人可能会降低活性，但却能因此而保留生命。他们的新陈代谢将下降就像你把家里的灯拧暗一些。这样，他们就会赢得时间，可以被送到医院在那里获得所需的照顾。然后，在得到相应的医疗之后，像像实验中的老鼠，或是那个像滑雪，或是像那位65岁的妇女那样，他们会醒来。奇迹？我们希望不是奇迹，也许我们只是希望让这样的奇迹变得更普通。
en:So it&#39;s really incrediblefor me to be a part of this.And I want to say that I think we&#39;re on the pathof understanding metabolic flexibilityin a fundamental way,and that in the not too distant future,an EMT might give an injection of hydrogen sulfide,or some related compound,to a person suffering severe injuries,and that person might de-animate a bit,they might become a little more immortal.Their metabolism will fallas though you were dimming a switch on a lamp at home.And then, they will have the time, that will buy them the time,to be transported to the hospitalto get the care they need.And then, after they get that care —like the mouse, like the skier,like the 65-year-old woman —they&#39;ll wake up.A miracle?We hope not, or maybe we just hopeto make miracles a little more common.
时间：17:51
zh-cn:非常感谢。（掌声。 ）
en:Thank you very much.(Applause)
