时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在纽约，我是“罗宾汉”非营利机构发展部门的主管在我消灭贫穷之余，我也灭火我是志愿消防居的副指挥在我们的小镇在一个志愿者都是成功人士的地方你必须要很早到现场才有可能加入战况
en:Back in New York, I am the head of developmentfor a non-profit called Robin Hood.When I&#39;m not fighting poverty, I&#39;m fighting firesas the assistant captain of a volunteer fire company.Now in our town,where the volunteers supplement a highly skilled career staff,you have to get to the fire scene pretty earlyto get in on any action.
时间： 0:30
zh-cn:我记得我第一场火我是第二个到现场的志愿者很有可能可以进火场但你还得跑赢其它志愿者先找到总指挥让他分配工作给你当我好不容易找到总指挥他正全神贯注地和屋主讨论她显然正经历人生中最糟糕的一天当时是大半夜她站在滂沱大雨中穿着睡衣、打赤脚、撑着伞她的房子正在熊熊燃烧
en:I remember my first fire.I was the second volunteer on the scene,so there was a pretty good chance I was going to get in.But still it was a real footrace against the other volunteersto get to the captain in chargeto find out what our assignments would be.When I found the captain,he was having a very engaging conversationwith the homeowner,who was surely having one of the worst days of her life.Here it was, the middle of the night,she was standing outside in the pouring rain,under an umbrella, in her pajamas, barefoot,while her house was in flames.
时间： 1:04
zh-cn:另外一个比我先来一步的志愿者就叫他Lex Luther （超人中的反派）好了（笑声）先到了总指挥身边他被分配到杀进火场去拯救屋主的小狗小狗哎！我嫉妒死了这个律师或财务经理终身都可以告诉别人他深入火场救出一条活生生的小狗就因为他比我早到五秒好吧，接下来轮到我了总指挥叫我过去他说，“Bezos，我需要你杀进火场我需要你上楼，越过火焰我需要你为这位女士拿双鞋。 “（笑声）是真的，我发誓这不是我心中描绘的图像但我去了上楼，走到走廊底，穿过那些”真正的“消防员他们差不多已经把火熄灭了我走进主卧室，拿了一双鞋
en:The other volunteer who had arrived just before me —let&#39;s call him Lex Luther —(Laughter)got to the captain firstand was asked to go insideand save the homeowner&#39;s dog.The dog! I was stunned with jealousy.Here was some lawyer or money managerwho, for the rest of his life, gets to tell peoplethat he went into a burning buildingto save a living creature,just because he beat me by five seconds.Well, I was next.The captain waved me over.He said, &quot;Bezos, I need you to go into the house.I need you to go upstairs, past the fire,and I need you to get this woman a pair of shoes.&quot;(Laughter)I swear.So, not exactly what I was hoping for,but off I went —up the stairs, down the hall, past the &#39;real&#39; firefighters,who were pretty much done putting out the fire at this point,into the master bedroom to get a pair of shoes.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:我知道你在想什么但我非英雄（笑声）我把我的任务带下楼在前门遇见那位早我五秒的先生和他救出的那条狗我们带着我们的宝藏走向前门毫无意外的他比我获得更多关注几个礼拜后我们部门收到从屋主来的一封信谢谢我们的拯救她家的义勇行为她特别提到一件温馨的细节甚至有人为她拿来一双鞋
en:Now I know what you&#39;re thinking,but I&#39;m no hero.(Laughter)I carried my payload back downstairswhere I met my nemesisand the precious dog by the front door.We took our treasures outside to the homeowner,where, not surprisingly,his received much more attention than did mine.A few weeks later,the department received a letter from the homeownerthanking us for the valiant effort displayedin saving her home.The act of kindness she noted above all others:someone had even gotten her a pair of shoes.
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:无论是我在“罗宾汉”的工作或是我身为志愿消防员的副业我目睹许多非常慷慨的善行我同时也目睹一个人的勇气和慈悲能带来多大的不同你知道我学到什么？它们都一样重要。当我环顾四周这些成功的或正要成功的人士你们都有着令人激赏的成就我想在这里提醒你们：不要等待不要等待你赚到第一个一百万才开始改变别人的生活如果你有什么可以给予现在就开始付出无论是供应穷人食物做个榜样
en:In both my vocation at Robin Hoodand my avocation as a volunteer firefighter,I am witness to acts of generosity and kindnesson a monumental scale,but I&#39;m also witness to acts of grace and courageon an individual basis.And you know what I&#39;ve learned?They all matter.So as I look around this roomat people who either have achieved,or are on their way to achieving,remarkable levels of success,I would offer this reminder:don&#39;t wait.Don&#39;t wait until you make your first millionto make a difference in somebody&#39;s life.If you have something to give,give it now.Serve food at a soup kitchen. Clean up a neighborhood park.Be a mentor.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:不是每一天我们都有机会拯救他人的生命但每一天我们都有机会影响他人的生命来吧：救那双鞋。
en:Not every day is going to offer us a chanceto save somebody&#39;s life,but every day offers us an opportunity to affect one.So get in the game. Save the shoes.
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:谢谢各位
en:Thank you.
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:Bruno Giussani：Mark，Mark，回来
en:Bruno Giussani: Mark, Mark, come back.
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:谢谢各位
en:Mark Bezos: Thank you.
