时间： 0:11
zh-cn:十年前，我写了一本名为《我们的末世纪？》的书，书名以问号结尾但出版商把问号删掉了.（笑声）这位美国出版商把书名改成了《我们的最后时刻》美国人喜欢即时行乐然后再反其道而行。（笑声）
en:Ten years ago, I wrote a book which I entitled&quot;Our Final Century?&quot; Question mark.My publishers cut out the question mark. (Laughter)The American publishers changed our titleto &quot;Our Final Hour.&quot;Americans like instant gratification and the reverse.(Laughter)
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:我当时的主题是这样的：我们的地球已经存在了四千五百万个世纪了，但是这个世纪是最特别的——第一次有一个物种，也就是我们人类，掌控着这个星球的未来。在几乎所有的地球历史中，威胁都是来自大自然——疾病、地震以及小行星等等——但是从现在起，最大的危险来自我们人类。现在我们所面临的不仅仅是核威胁；在我们这个相互联系的世界，网络故障可以波及全球；航空旅行可以将流行病在几天内传播到全世界；并且可以毫不夸张地说社交媒体传播恐慌和谣言如光速一般。我们对那些不起眼的危害担心得太多了——未必会发生的空难、食品中的致癌物、低剂量的辐射，等等——但是我们和我们的政治领袖们却不肯接受灾难性的场景发生的可能性。谢天谢地最糟糕的情况还没有发生。的确，它们很有可能不会发生。但是哪怕只有一个事件是具有潜在的毁灭性的，那么就值得投入大量的费用去预防它，即使它不大可能发生，正如我们为我们的房子购买火灾险一样。
en:And my theme was this:Our Earth has existed for 45 million centuries,but this one is special —it&#39;s the first where one species, ours,has the planet&#39;s future in its hands.Over nearly all of Earth&#39;s history,threats have come from nature —disease, earthquakes, asteroids and so forth —but from now on, the worst dangers come from us.And it&#39;s now not just the nuclear threat;in our interconnected world,network breakdowns can cascade globally;air travel can spread pandemicsworldwide within days;and social media can spread panic and rumorliterally at the speed of light.We fret too much about minor hazards —improbable air crashes, carcinogens in food,low radiation doses, and so forth —but we and our political mastersare in denial about catastrophic scenarios.The worst have thankfully not yet happened.Indeed, they probably won&#39;t.But if an event is potentially devastating,it&#39;s worth paying a substantial premiumto safeguard against it, even if it&#39;s unlikely,just as we take out fire insurance on our house.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:随着科学提供了更大的能力和希望，它的负面影响也会变得更加可怕。我们变得更加脆弱。数十年之内，能够滥用快速发展的生物技术的人将达到数百万,就像今天滥用网络技术的人一样。弗里曼·戴森在一次TED演讲中预言,孩子们将会设计和创造新的生物体，而这就像他们那一代人玩化学装置一样常见。当然，这可能有点像科幻小说的场景，但即使只是这个设想中的一部分变成现实，我们的生态系统和我们人类自身都必定将无法安然无恙地长久生存。例如，一些生态极端主义者认为人类的数量越少，对这颗星球，对我们生活的地球越好。当这样的人掌握了那些将会在2050年可能被普遍推广的合成生物技术后将会发生什么样的事情呢？到那时，其他科幻小说中的噩梦就可能变为现实：愚蠢的机器人会像流氓一样，或者一个网络会进化出自己的意识从而威胁到我们所有人。
en:And as science offers greater power and promise,the downside gets scarier too.We get ever more vulnerable.Within a few decades,millions will have the capabilityto misuse rapidly advancing biotech,just as they misuse cybertech today.Freeman Dyson, in a TED Talk,foresaw that children will designand create new organismsjust as routinely as his generationplayed with chemistry sets.Well, this may be on the science fiction fringe,but were even part of his scenario to come about,our ecology and even our specieswould surely not survive long unscathed.For instance, there are some eco-extremistswho think that it would be better for the planet,for Gaia, if there were far fewer humans.What happens when such people have masteredsynthetic biology techniquesthat will be widespread by 2050?And by then, other science fiction nightmaresmay transition to reality:dumb robots going rogue,or a network that develops a mind of its ownthreatens us all.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:我们能通过监管来预防这些风险吗？无论如何我们得试一试，但是这些企业是如此的求胜心切，如此的全球化，如此的受商业压力的驱动，所以他们将会不顾一切以达成他们的目的，而不管法规是如何规定的。就像毒品法——我们试着去约束，但收效甚微。地球村里总会有些愚昧的村民，并且他们的所作所为的影响会波及全球。
en:Well, can we guard against such risks by regulation?We must surely try, but these enterprisesare so competitive, so globalized,and so driven by commercial pressure,that anything that can be donewill be done somewhere,whatever the regulations say.It&#39;s like the drug laws — we try to regulate, but can&#39;t.And the global village will have its village idiots,and they&#39;ll have a global range.
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:所以就像我在书中所说，这个世纪我们不会过得一帆风顺。我们的社会可能会遭遇挫折——甚至，有50%的可能会遭遇一个严重的挫折。但是可能还会有更糟糕的事件发生吗，那种可以消灭掉所有生命的事件？当一台新的粒子加速器联机以后，一些人不安地问道，它能毁灭地球吗？或者，撕破空间的构造？幸运的是，至少这点我们还是能保证不会发生的。我和其他人指出，大自然通过宇宙射线碰撞，已经做过亿万次同样的实验了。但是科学家们无疑需要对于那些会产生自然界中没有先例的状况的实验保持警惕。生物学家应当避免释放那些具有潜在毁灭性的转基因病原体。
en:So as I said in my book,we&#39;ll have a bumpy ride through this century.There may be setbacks to our society —indeed, a 50 percent chance of a severe setback.But are there conceivable eventsthat could be even worse,events that could snuff out all life?When a new particle accelerator came online,some people anxiously asked,could it destroy the Earth or, even worse,rip apart the fabric of space?Well luckily, reassurance could be offered.I and others pointed out that naturehas done the same experimentszillions of times already,via cosmic ray collisions.But scientists should surely be precautionaryabout experiments that generate conditionswithout precedent in the natural world.Biologists should avoid releaseof potentially devastatinggenetically modified pathogens.
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:顺便提一下，我们之所以对于真实存在的灾难所带来的风险尤其反感是取决于一个哲学和伦理问题，这就是：考虑一下两个场景。场景A，90%的人类会被消灭。场景B，所有人类都会被消灭。那么场景B比场景A糟糕多少？有人可能会说糟糕10%。因为死亡人数要多全人类的10%。但我认为场景B是无比的糟糕。作为一个天文学家，我不能相信人类是这个故事的结局。宇宙诞生在太阳燃烧起来的五十亿前年并且会永远持续下去，因此后人类时代的进化不管是在地球还是其它遥远的地方，都可能会像达尔文进化论所提出的一样旷日持久，并且甚至会更奇妙。而事实上，未来的进化会发生得更快，会在一个科技的时间尺度内，而不是在自然选择的时间尺度内。
en:And by the way, our special aversionto the risk of truly existential disastersdepends on a philosophical and ethical question,and it&#39;s this:Consider two scenarios.Scenario A wipes out 90 percent of humanity.Scenario B wipes out 100 percent.How much worse is B than A?Some would say 10 percent worse.The body count is 10 percent higher.But I claim that B is incomparably worse.As an astronomer, I can&#39;t believethat humans are the end of the story.It is five billion years before the sun flares up,and the universe may go on forever,so post-human evolution,here on Earth and far beyond,could be as prolonged as the Darwinian processthat&#39;s led to us, and even more wonderful.And indeed, future evolutionwill happen much faster,on a technological timescale,not a natural selection timescale.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:所以无疑地，考虑到这些巨大的风险，我们不应该承受哪怕是十亿分之一的导致人类灭绝的风险，这样才有可能阻止这些巨大的潜在性。有些设想中的场景可能的确只是在科幻小说中才会出现，但其它的情节则可能变成令人担忧的现实。有一个值得一提的格言是不常见并不等于不可能发生，事实上，我们在剑桥大学建立的一个如何去减轻这些真实存在的风险的研究中心也是出于同样的考虑。这一切看起来似乎只值得少数人花时间去估量这些潜在的灾难。但是我们需要尽可能地从其他人身上获得帮助，因为我们是茫茫宇宙中这颗珍贵的淡蓝色圆点的管理员，这是一颗走过了5亿个世纪的星球。因此让我们别再危害未来。
en:So we surely, in view of those immense stakes,shouldn&#39;t accept even a one in a billion riskthat human extinction would foreclosethis immense potential.Some scenarios that have been envisagedmay indeed be science fiction,but others may be disquietingly real.It&#39;s an important maxim that the unfamiliaris not the same as the improbable,and in fact, that&#39;s why we at Cambridge Universityare setting up a center to study how to mitigatethese existential risks.It seems it&#39;s worthwhile just for a few peopleto think about these potential disasters.And we need all the help we can get from others,because we are stewards of a preciouspale blue dot in a vast cosmos,a planet with 50 million centuries ahead of it.And so let&#39;s not jeopardize that future.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:我想引用一个名叫彼得·梅达沃的伟大科学家的话来结束今天的演讲。我引用的这句话是：为人类而敲响的钟声就像高山上的牛的钟声一样。它们系在我们的脖子上，如果它们不能发出和谐悦耳的声音，那么一定是我们的错。“
en:And I&#39;d like to finish with a quotefrom a great scientist called Peter Medawar.I quote, &quot;The bells that toll for mankindare like the bells of Alpine cattle.They are attached to our own necks,and it must be our fault if they do not makea tuneful and melodious sound.&quot;
时间： 6:46
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
