时间： 0:11
zh-cn:世界正在以惊人的速度飞快得改变着。如果你看着这上方的图表，你会看到在2025年，高盛投资公司的这些预测表明中国经济规模会和美国经济几乎相当。如果看2050年的图表，预测表明中国经济规模将会是美国经济的两倍，印度的经济规模将会和美国的经济几乎持平。在这里，我们应该记住这些预测是在西方经济危机之前做出的。
en:The world is changingwith really remarkable speed.If you look at the chart at the top here,you&#39;ll see that in 2025,these Goldman Sachs projectionssuggest that the Chinese economywill be almost the same size as the American economy.And if you look at the chartfor 2050,it&#39;s projected that the Chinese economywill be twice the size of the American economy,and the Indian economy will be almost the same sizeas the American economy.And we should bear in mind herethat these projections were drawn upbefore the Western financial crisis.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:几周前，我查看法国巴黎银行的最近预测，中国在什么时候会超越美国经济，成为第一大经济体。高盛投资公司预测2027年。危机过后的预测是2020年。这也不过只有10年的光景。中国将在两个基本方面上改变世界。首先，中国是一个幅员广大的发展中国家它有13亿人口，在过去30年间它以每年10%左右的经济增长率发展。
en:A couple of weeks ago,I was looking at the latest projectionby BNP Paribasfor when Chinawill have a larger economythan the United States.Goldman Sachs projected 2027.The post-crisis projectionis 2020.That&#39;s just a decade away.China is going to change the worldin two fundamental respects.First of all,it&#39;s a huge developing countrywith a population of 1.3 billion people,which has been growing for over 30 yearsat around 10 percent a year.
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:在未来10年间，它会有世界上最大的经济体。在世界现代史中，以前从来都是发达国家还没有一个发展中的国家变成了世界上最大的经济体。第二，在现代史中第一次在世界上，我认为中国会变成大国，它有别于西方国家而它是从非常，非常不同的文明根源发展起的大国。
en:And within a decade,it will have the largest economy in the world.Never before in the modern erahas the largest economy in the worldbeen that of a developing country,rather than a developed country.Secondly,for the first time in the modern era,the dominant country in the world —which I think is what China will become —will be not from the Westand from very, very different civilizational roots.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:现在我知道西方国家有一个普遍的假设随着国家的现代化，它们也会西方化。这是个幻想。这是对于现代化仅仅是竞争，市场和技术的一种产品的假设。中国的现代化不仅仅是这样的，也是由历史和文化共同作用下形成的。中国不同于西方国家，它也不会变成和西方国家一样。它会在非常基础的方面表现得非常不同。现在这的大问题明显是，我们该怎样认识中国？我们该怎样了解中国？在西方我们现在的问题大体上是传统的方法我们用西方的术语，用西方的观点来了解真正的中国。我们不能这样。现在我想给大家3个基础理由来试着了解中国只是起个头。
en:Now, I know it&#39;s a widespread assumption in the Westthat as countries modernize,they also westernize.This is an illusion.It&#39;s an assumption that modernityis a product simply of competition, markets and technology.It is not. It is also shaped equallyby history and culture.China is not like the West,and it will not become like the West.It will remain in very fundamental respectsvery different.Now the big question here is obviously,how do we make sense of China?How do we try to understand what China is?And the problem we have in the West at the moment, by and large,is that the conventional approachis that we understand it really in Western terms,using Western ideas.We can&#39;t.Now I want to offer youthree building blocksfor trying to understand what China is like,just as a beginning.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:首先是这个，中国事实上不是一个民族国家。在过去的几百年，中国自称是一个民族国家。但对中国很了解的人知道中国比这历史要悠久得多。中国是在公元前221年也就在战国时期的末期从秦朝一统江山起，现代中国就诞生了。你可以看到现代中国的边界线。随之其后的汉朝，还在2000年前。你可以看出中国已经占据我们现在所知的华东地区的大部分，绝大多数的中国人当时在那儿居住现在还生活在那儿。
en:The first is this:that China is not really a nation-state.Okay, it&#39;s called itself a nation-statefor the last hundred years,but everyone who knows anything about Chinaknows it&#39;s a lot older than this.This was what China looked like with the victory of the Qin Dynastyin 221 B.C. at the end of the warring-state period —the birth of modern China.And you can see it against the boundaries of modern China.Or immediately afterward, the Han Dynasty,still 2,000 years ago.And you can see already it occupiesmost of what we now know as Eastern China,which is where the vast majority of Chinese lived thenand live now.
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:这点非同寻常的是，它赋予了中国做为中国的意义，也赋予了中国人成为他们中国人的意义，这不是从过去几百年，也不是从民族国家开始形成这种认识，这跟西方发展也不一样，而这一阶段，如果你喜欢，可以说是文明国家的阶段。我想到这儿，举个例子吧，传统习惯例如：对祖先的崇拜，非常有特色的国家概念，诸如此类的，非常有特色的家庭观念，社交关系如关系，儒家价值观等等。所有这些事都来自于文明国家的阶段。换言之，中国不像世界上的西方国家和多数国家，它由它自身文明所形成，它是作为一个文明国家而不是一个民族国家而存在的。还有另一件事要加进来，这就是：当然我们知道中国是幅员辽阔，人口众多，在人口统计和地理上都是首屈一指，它有13亿人口。我们常常没关注的事实是中国也是极其多样化和非常多元化的，在许多方面甚至权力是非常分散化的。尽管我们认为不能仅从北京中央政府来管理这庞大规模的国家，我们以为会是这样，但从来都不是这样。
en:Now what is extraordinary about thisis, what gives China its sense of being China,what gives the Chinesethe sense of what it is to be Chinese,comes not from the last hundred years,not from the nation-state period,which is what happened in the West,but from the period, if you like,of the civilization-state.I&#39;m thinking here, for example,of customs like ancestral worship,of a very distinctive notion of the state,likewise, a very distinctive notion of the family,social relationships like guanxi,Confucian values and so on.These are all things that comefrom the period of the civilization-state.In other words, China, unlike the Western states and most countries in the world,is shaped by its sense of civilization,its existence as a civilization-state,rather than as a nation-state.And there&#39;s one other thing to add to this, and that is this:Of course we know China&#39;s big, huge,demographically and geographically,with a population of 1.3 billion people.What we often aren&#39;t really aware ofis the factthat China is extremely diverseand very pluralistic,and in many ways very decentralized.You can&#39;t run a place on this scale simply from Beijing,even though we think this to be the case.It&#39;s never been the case.
时间： 5:09
zh-cn:所以这才是中国，一个文明国家，而不是一个民族国家。那这意味着什么呢？那么我想这有很多种深刻的含义。我会给你两个简短介绍。第一个是中国人最主要的政治价值观是统一，用来维护中华文明。大家知道，2000年前，欧洲:灭亡，神圣罗马帝国[罗马帝国]的分裂。从那时到现在，它不断地分裂。在同一时间段，中国却有着完全相反的方向，非常艰难地维系着这种强大的统一文明，把文明国家统一在一起。
en:So this is China, a civilization-state,rather than a nation-state.And what does it mean?Well, I think it has all sorts of profound implications.I&#39;ll give you two quick ones.The first is thatthe most important political value for the Chineseis unity,is the maintenanceof Chinese civilization.You know, 2,000 years ago, Europe:breakdown — the fragmentation of the Holy Roman Empire.It divided, and it&#39;s remained divided ever since.China, over the same time period,went in exactly the opposite direction,very painfully holding this huge civilization,civilization-state, together.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:第二或许是更一般的例子香港的例子。大家是否记得香港在1997年从英国政府转交给中国政府？大家能记得中国宪法体制是什么吗？一国两制。我会打赌在西方没有人会信这一套。“装饰门面。当中国政府接手香港，这不可能。”13年来，香港现在的政治和司法体制和1997年一样，但和中国大陆的有所不同。我们都错了，为什么我们理解错了呢？我们错是因为我们理所当然地以民族国家角度思考。想想1990年德国统一。发生什么了？基本上东德被西德吞噬。一个国家，一个体制。这是民族国家的心态。但是你不能用此来管理一个像中国这样的，一个文明国家，它建立在一种文明，一个体制上。这行不通。的确中国在香港问题上的回应也是在台湾问题上的回应，它是一个很自然的回应：一种文明，多种体制。
en:The secondis maybe more prosaic,which is Hong Kong.Do you remember the handover of Hong Kongby Britain to China in 1997?You may rememberwhat the Chinese constitutional proposition was.One country, two systems.And I&#39;ll lay a wagerthat barely anyone in the West believed them.&quot;Window dressing.When China gets its hands on Hong Kong,that won&#39;t be the case.&quot;Thirteen years on,the political and legal system in Hong Kongis as different now as it was in 1997.We were wrong. Why were we wrong?We were wrong because we thought, naturally enough,in nation-state ways.Think of German unification, 1990.What happened?Well, basically the East was swallowed by the West.One nation, one system.That is the nation-state mentality.But you can&#39;t run a country like China,a civilization-state,on the basis of one civilization, one system.It doesn&#39;t work.So actually the response of Chinato the question of Hong Kong —as it will be to the question of Taiwan —was a natural response:one civilization, many systems.
时间： 7:05
zh-cn:让我来说另一个基础理由来试着了解中国这或许是一个让人不舒服的理由。中国与其他大多数国家对民族的概念有非常，非常不同的理解。大家知道，13亿中国人，超过90%的中国人认为他们属于同一个民族，汉族。目前这与世界上其它人口众多的国家截然相反。印度，美国，印度尼西亚，巴西，他们都是多民族的。中国人没有感到过多民族。中国仅是在边界线上有多种少数民族的人。那问题是，为什么？好吧，我认为实质上，原因得再次追溯到这文明国家。至少在2000年的历史长河中，征服，占领，合并，同化等的历史随着时间的推移导致了汉民族这概念的形成过程当然，这概念也孕育了增强了汉文化认同感也使其变得非常强大，具有深远意义。
en:Let me offer you another building blockto try and understand China —maybe not sort of a comfortable one.The Chinese have a very, very differentconception of raceto most other countries.Do you know,of the 1.3 billion Chinese,over 90 percent of themthink they belong to the same race,the Han?Now, this is completely differentfrom the world&#39;s [other] most populous countries.India, the United States,Indonesia, Brazil —all of them are multiracial.The Chinese don&#39;t feel like that.China is only multiracialreally at the margins.So the question is, why?Well the reason, I think, essentiallyis, again, back to the civilization-state.A history of at least 2,000 years,a history of conquest, occupation,absorption, assimilation and so on,led to the process by which,over time, this notion of the Han emerged —of course, nurturedby a growing and very powerful senseof cultural identity.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:现在这历史经验的巨大优势呈现出来，没有汉民族，中国永远不可能连为一体。汉民族文化认同一直把这个国家粘合在一起。它的巨大的劣势是汉民族对文化差异有很少的认知概念。他们真正相信他们自身汉族文化的优越性，他们不尊重那些不同民族的差异性。因此， 举个例子，比如他们对待回族和藏族的态度。
en:Now the great advantage of this historical experiencehas been that, without the Han,China could never have held together.The Han identity has been the cementwhich has held this country together.The great disadvantage of itis that the Han have a very weak conceptionof cultural difference.They really believein their own superiority,and they are disrespectfulof those who are not.Hence their attitude, for example,to the Uyghurs and to the Tibetans.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:让我给出第三个基础理由，中国式的国家。现在在中国国家和社会间的关系非常不同于西方的那种关系。在西方我们绝大多数人似乎认为—至少在最近国家的权威和合法性是民主的一个功能。有关这问题是中国这个国家对中国人民享有更多合法性和更多权威性这比起任何西方国家，它都是事实。这个的原因是因为我认为有两个理由。中国很明显与民主无关，因为依我们来看，中国完全称不上是民主。这个理由是，首先，因为在中国，国家是一个非常特别有所指的，它享有一个非常特别的意义作为中华文明的代表，体现和捍卫者，也是代表中国国家的代表，化身和捍卫者。这也接近中国有种精神象征的作用。
en:Or let me give you my third building block,the Chinese state.Now the relationshipbetween the state and society in Chinais very different from that in the West.Now we in the Westoverwhelmingly seem to think — in these days at least —that the authority and legitimacy of the stateis a function of democracy.The problem with this propositionis that the Chinese stateenjoys more legitimacyand more authorityamongst the Chinesethan is truewith any Western state.And the reason for thisis because —well, there are two reasons, I think.And it&#39;s obviously got nothing to do with democracy,because in our terms the Chinese certainly don&#39;t have a democracy.And the reason for this is,firstly, because the state in Chinais given a very special —it enjoys a very special significanceas the representative,the embodiment and the guardianof Chinese civilization,of the civilization-state.This is as close as China getsto a kind of spiritual role.
时间：10:15
zh-cn:第二个理由是因为，反之在欧洲，北美洲，国家的权力不断受到挑战。我指在欧洲历史传统，历史上反对教堂，反对其它各种贵族阶级，反对商人等等有1000年历史，中国国家的权力从来没被挑战过。它没有真正的对手可抗衡。所以大家可以看到在中国已经建立的权力的方式与我们西方历史的经验非常不同。顺便提一下，结果是中国人看待国家有非常不同的视角。鉴于我们倾向于把国家看作是一个入侵者，一个陌生人，当然是一个组织它的权力需要被限制或被界定和约束，中国人可一点都不这样看待国家。中国人视国家作为一个亲密的朋友，也不止是作为一个密友，作为家庭里的一员，事实上也不止是家里一员，而是一家之长，家庭里的家长。这是从中国视角来看待国家，和我们的截然不同。根植于中国社会的案例与我们在西方的社会例证是完全不同的。
en:And the second reason is because,whereas in Europeand North America,the state&#39;s power is continuously challenged —I mean in the European tradition,historically against the church,against other sectors of the aristocracy,against merchants and so on —for 1,000 years,the power of the Chinese statehas not been challenged.It&#39;s had no serious rivals.So you can seethat the way in which power has been constructed in Chinais very different from our experiencein Western history.The result, by the way,is that the Chinese have a very different view of the state.Whereas we tend to view it as an intruder,a stranger,certainly an organwhose powers need to be limitedor defined and constrained,the Chinese don&#39;t see the state like that at all.The Chinese view the stateas an intimate — not just as an intimate actually,as a member of the family —not just in fact as a member of the family,but as the head of the family,the patriarch of the family.This is the Chinese view of the state —very, very different to ours.It&#39;s embedded in society in a different kind of wayto what is the casein the West.
时间：11:41
zh-cn:我给大家的建议是我们的确要了解在中国背景下，这是一种新的范例，它与我们过去曾想过的范例是不同的。要知道中国人相信市场和国有。我指，亚当·斯密在18世纪晚期已经著书，说过，“中国市场比起欧洲的任何一个市场，它都是较大的，较为发达的也是较为复杂的。”除了毛泽东时代，中国市场大体是如上的例证。但这也是在一个极强大和无处不在的国家做后盾。国家就是中国的一切。我指，它引领着公司，他们中的许多公司还是国企所有。私有企业，不管它们有多大，像Lenovo联想，在很多方面也依赖于国家的资助。国家设置了经济目标等等。当然，国家的权威也穿插在许多其他方面比如我们所述熟悉的独生子女政策。
en:And I would suggest to you that actually what we are dealing with here,in the Chinese context,is a new kind of paradigm,which is different from anythingwe&#39;ve had to think about in the past.Know that China believes in the market and the state.I mean, Adam Smith,already writing in the late 18th century, said,&quot;The Chinese market is larger and more developedand more sophisticatedthan anything in Europe.&quot;And, apart from the Mao period,that has remained more or less the case ever since.But this is combinedwith an extremely strong and ubiquitous state.The state is everywhere in China.I mean, it&#39;s leading firms —many of them are still publicly owned.Private firms, however large they are, like Lenovo,depend in many ways on state patronage.Targets for the economy and so onare set by the state.And the state, of course, its authority flows into lots of other areas —as we are familiar with —with something like the one-child policy.
时间：12:41
zh-cn:此外，中国是一个非常古老的传统国家，有一个非常古老传统的治国纲领。如果你想搞明白这样的例子，长城就是其中一个。但这有另一个，这是（京杭）大运河，它起初是在公元前5世纪被建造的在公元7世纪时它最终竣工。它有1114英里，链接北京到杭州和上海。在中国，非凡的国家大型基础建设的历史由来已久，我认为这也帮助我们来了解我们今天所看到的，例如三峡大坝工程和许多中国其它的国家工程业绩。所以这3个组成部分让我们了解中国的不同—文明国家，民族的概念和国家的属性以及它和社会的关系。
en:Moreover, this is a very old state tradition,a very old tradition of statecraft.I mean, if you want an illustration of this,the Great Wall is one.But this is another, this is the Grand Canal,which was constructed in the first instancein the fifth century B.C.and was finally completedin the seventh century A.D.It went for 1,114 miles,linking Beijingwith Hangzhou and Shanghai.So there&#39;s a long historyof extraordinary state infrastructural projectsin China,which I suppose helps us to explain what we see today,which is something like the Three Gorges Damand many other expressionsof state competencewithin China.So there we have three building blocksfor trying to understand the difference that is China —the civilization-state,the notion of raceand the nature of the stateand its relationship to society.
时间：13:44
zh-cn:总地说来，我们还一直坚持认为我们仅从西方经验的视角就能理解中国通过西方人视角使用西方理念来看透中国。如果你想知道我们为什么对中国有错误的认识我们对在中国发生的事情的预言为什么也是不正确的这上所述就是原因。不幸的是我认为，我得说我认为对中国的态度是西方人的一种心态做崇。这是傲慢的心态。就傲慢的心态而言我们认为我们是最好的，因此我们有普世的评判标准。其次，这是无知的。我们拒绝真正承认问题的不同面。大家知道，美国历史学家保罗·柯文(Paul Cohen)的书里（《在中国发现历史——中国中心观在美国的兴起》）有一段非常有意思的话。保罗·柯文讲到西方认为它自身文化好比是所有文化里最具有国际化的文化。但事实不是。在许多方面，它是最狭隘的，因为200年来，西方一直主宰世界它不必去了解其他文化，其他文明。因为，到头来，必要时可动武，彰显其自身文化。反之这些其它文化几乎在世界其它地区的，事实上，面对西方文化，它们一直处于相对较弱的地位，从而也一直被迫来了解西方文化，因为西方文化在这些社会有影响力的原因。所以，结果是它们在许多方面比起西方更国际化。
en:And yet we still insist, by and large,in thinking that we can understand Chinaby simply drawing on Western experience,looking at it through Western eyes,using Western concepts.If you want to know whywe unerringly seem to get China wrong —our predictions about what&#39;s going to happen to China are incorrect —this is the reason.Unfortunately, I think,I have to say that I thinkattitude towards Chinais that of a kind of little Westerner mentality.It&#39;s kind of arrogant.It&#39;s arrogant in the sensethat we think that we are best,and therefore we have the universal measure.And secondly, it&#39;s ignorant.We refuse to really addressthe issue of difference.You know, there&#39;s a very interesting passagein a book by Paul Cohen, the American historian.And Paul Cohen arguesthat the West thinks of itselfas probably the most cosmopolitanof all cultures.But it&#39;s not.In many ways,it&#39;s the most parochial,because for 200 years,the West has been so dominant in the worldthat it&#39;s not really neededto understand other cultures,other civilizations.Because, at the end of the day,it could, if necessary by force,get its own way.Whereas those cultures —virtually the rest of the world, in fact,which have been in a far weaker position, vis-a-vis the West —have been thereby forced to understand the West,because of the West&#39;s presence in those societies.And therefore, they are, as a result,more cosmopolitan in many ways than the West.
时间：15:40
zh-cn:我们来谈谈东亚的问题。东亚：日本，韩国，中国等等—世界上三分之一人口住在那边，现在是全球最大的经济区域。现在我会告诉你，东亚人，东亚的人们，对西方的认识程度比起西方国家对东亚的认识程度要深的多。现在我恐怕这个观点到现在还是非常有影响的。因为发生的变化吗？回到开始的图表—高盛投资公司的图表。当前发生的是，在历史上非常迅速，世界不是被老旧的发达国家所驱动和塑造，而是被发展中新兴国家。我们看到这个G20二十国集团它非常迅速地抢占G7七国集团或者G8八国集团的地位。同时这有两个结果。第一，西方正快速地失去它在全球的影响。一年前就有一个戏剧性的例证证明这个观点哥本哈根，气候变化会议。欧洲没有出现在最后讨论谈判桌上。上次欧洲置之事外是在什么时候？我敢打赌约在200年前也发生同样的事。在未来这还会发生。
en:I mean, take the question of East Asia.East Asia: Japan, Korea, China, etc. —a third of the world&#39;s population lives there.Now the largest economic region in the world.And I&#39;ll tell you now,that East Asianers, people from East Asia,are far more knowledgeableabout the Westthan the West is about East Asia.Now this point is very germane, I&#39;m afraid,to the present.Because what&#39;s happening? Back to that chart at the beginning,the Goldman Sachs chart.What is happeningis that, very rapidly in historical terms,the world is being drivenand shaped,not by the old developed countries,but by the developing world.We&#39;ve seen thisin terms of the G20usurping very rapidly the position of the G7,or the G8.And there are two consequences of this.First, the Westis rapidly losingits influence in the world.There was a dramatic illustration of this actually a year ago —Copenhagen, climate change conference.Europe was not at the final negotiating table.When did that last happen?I would wager it was probably about 200 years ago.And that is what is going to happen in the future.
时间：17:00
zh-cn:第二个含义是世界将不可避免地急剧变化，对我们来说很陌生，因为世界被我们所不熟悉的或者不精通的文化，经验和历史所重塑。最后，我恐怕，拿欧洲来说，美国是有点不同的但大体上，我得说欧洲人是无知的，他们没有意识到世界上正在发生的改变。有人，我有一个在中国的英国朋友，他说，“旧大陆在梦游似的会被遗忘。”好吧，恐怕是对的，恐怕这有点夸张。但另一问题随之产生欧洲正在日益与世界脱节这是一种对未来感的缺失。当然，我指欧洲曾自信地引领未来。拿19世纪来举例。唉，但这已经风光不在。
en:And the second implicationis that the world will inevitably, as a consequence,become increasingly unfamiliar to us,because it&#39;ll be shaped by cultures and experiences and historiesthat we are not really familiar with,or conversant with.And at last, I&#39;m afraid — take Europe;America is slightly different —but Europeans by and large, I have to say,are ignorant,are unawareabout the way the world is changing.Some people — I&#39;ve got an English friend in China,and he said, &quot;The continent is sleepwalking into oblivion.&quot;Well, maybe that&#39;s true,maybe that&#39;s an exaggeration.But there&#39;s another problem which goes along with this —that Europe is increasingly out of touch with the world —and that is a sort ofloss of a sense of the future.I mean, Europe once, of course, once commanded the futurein its confidence.Take the 19th century, for example.But this, alas, is no longer true.
时间：18:06
zh-cn:如果你想感知未来，如果你想感触未来，看看中国，这是古代的孔子。这是一个火车站这是你以前从未看到过的。它看上去不像是火车站。这是为了高速列车行驶而新建的广州火车站。中国已经比起全球其他国家有更多的铁路网不久就会超过全球铁路网总和。举个例子：现在这是个想法，但这想法不久就会在北京郊区实现。这儿会有一辆超级公交，在公交上层会承载2000人。它会沿着郊区的路上轨道行驶，车辆可以在它下面穿行。它的时速可达每小时约100英里。现在这个就是未来交通方式，因为中国有非常具体问题，它有别于欧洲和美国。中国人口众多，但很少空间。所以当中国将会有越来越多的城市超过2000万人口时，这会是应对这种情况的解决方案。
en:If you want to feel the future, if you want to taste the future,try China — there&#39;s old Confucius.This is a railway stationthe likes of which you&#39;ve never seen before.It doesn&#39;t even look like a railway station.This is the new [Wuhan] railway stationfor the high-speed trains.China already has a bigger networkthan any other country in the worldand will soon have more than all the rest of the world put together.Or take this: now this is an idea,but it&#39;s an idea to be tried out shortlyin a suburb of Beijing.Here you have a megabus,on the upper deck carries about 2,000 people.It travels on railsdown a suburban road,and the cars travel underneath it.And it does speeds of up to about 100 miles an hour.Now this is the way things are going to move,because China has a very specific problem,which is different from Europeand different from the United States:China has huge numbers of people and no space.So this is a solution to a situationwhere China&#39;s going to havemany, many, many citiesover 20 million people.
时间：19:13
zh-cn:好吧，那么我会怎样来做结论呢？那么，我们应该以怎样态度来面对这个呈现在我们面前飞速发展的世界？我认为关于此事，这会有好的方面也会有坏的方面。但首先，我想指出这世界所展现的是一幅积极正面的蓝图。200年来，世界基本上是被人类的一部分人所管辖。这是以欧洲和北美为代表的。新兴国家的崛起像中国和印度它们占世界人口的百分之三十八和其他国家如印度尼西亚和巴西等等，他们代表了在过去200年间最重要的人类活动民主化进程。曾被忽视，没有发言权的文明和文化，人们对此不了解，没听说过的文明和文化，它们将会在这世界上以与众不同地声音代言它们自身。作为人道主义者，我们必定要欢迎这种转型。我们还得学习这些文明。
en:Okay, so how would I like to finish?Well, what should our attitude betowards this worldthat we seevery rapidly developingbefore us?I think there will be good things about it and there will be bad things about it.But I want to argue, above all,a big-picture positive for this world.For 200 years,the world was essentially governedby a fragment of the human population.That&#39;s what Europe and North America represented.The arrival of countrieslike China and India —between them 38 percent of the world&#39;s population —and others like Indonesia and Brazil and so on,represent the most important single actof democratizationin the last 200 years.Civilizations and cultures,which had been ignored, which had no voice,which were not listened to, which were not known about,will have a different sortof representation in this world.As humanists, we must welcome, surely,this transformation,and we will have to learnabout these civilizations.
时间：20:34
zh-cn:这儿的大船是在15世纪早期郑和下西洋时航行的船，它穿过中国东海，南海然后穿行印度洋到达东非。这前面的小船是80年后，克里斯托弗·哥伦布穿行大西洋的船只。（笑声）或仔细看看这幅ZhuZhou朱周（音译）在1368年创作的绢轴国画。我认为他们在打高尔夫。上帝啊，竟然是中国人发明了高尔夫球。
en:This big ship herewas the one sailed in by Zheng Hein the early 15th centuryon his great voyagesaround the South China Sea, the East China Seaand across the Indian Ocean to East Africa.The little boat in front of itwas the one in which, 80 years later,Christopher Columbus crossed the Atlantic.(Laughter)Or, look carefullyat this silk scrollmade by ZhuZhouin 1368.I think they&#39;re playing golf.Christ, the Chinese even invented golf.
时间：21:15
zh-cn:欢迎来到未来。谢谢。
en:Welcome to the future. Thank you.
时间：21:18
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
