时间： 0:18
zh-cn:我经常被问到的一个问题是，我为什么热衷于人权和公正问题？这和我早期经历有关。我成长在爱尔兰的西部，有4个兄弟，两个哥哥和两个弟弟。所以我当然对人权，平等, 公正，和使用拳头感兴趣。
en:A question I&#39;m often asked is,where did I get my passionfor human rights and justice?It started early.I grew up in the west of Ireland,wedged between four brothers,two older than me and two younger than me.So of course I had to beinterested in human rights,and equality and justice,and using my elbows!
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:这些问题一直伴随着我，引导我。特别是当我被选为爱尔兰第一位女总统的时候，（从1990年到1997年）在我的任期内，我关注那些觉得在爱尔兰岛上被边缘化的人们，致力于给他们一个空间并且把北爱尔兰的人们和爱尔兰共和国的人们集合到一起，力求建立和平。我是第一位拜访英国(United Kingdom)并会见了女王伊丽莎白二世的爱尔兰总统，一些人还被邀请到我的官邸—我们称之为“Áras an Uachtaráin”总统府—一些皇室成员尤其还包括威尔士亲王。我意识到在我的任期内，爱尔兰是一个经济快速发展的国家。我们的国家受益于欧盟的团结。事实上，当爱尔兰在1973年第一次加入欧盟的时候，这里的一些地区还被视为发展中地区，包括我心爱的家乡梅奥郡。我带领贸易代表团去美国，去日本，去印度，鼓励投资，创造就业，建立我们的经济。建立我们的卫生系统和我们的教育—促进我们的发展。
en:And those issues stayedwith me and guided me,and in particular,when I was elected the firstwoman President of Ireland,from 1990 to 1997.I dedicated my presidencyto having a space for those who feltmarginalized on the island of Ireland,and bringing together communitiesfrom Northern Irelandwith those from the Republic,trying to build peace.And I went as the first Irish presidentto the United Kingdomand met with Queen Elizabeth II,and also welcomed to myofficial residence —which we call &quot;Áras an Uachtaráin,&quot;the house of the president —members of the royal family,including, notably, the Prince of Wales.And I was aware that at the timeof my presidency,Ireland was a country beginninga rapid economic progress.We were a country that was benefitingfrom the solidarity of the European Union.Indeed, when Ireland first joinedthe European Union in 1973,there were parts of the countrythat were considered developing,including my own belovednative county, County Mayo.I led trade delegationshere to the United States,to Japan, to India,to encourage investment,to help to create jobs,to build up our economy,to build up our health system,our education —our development.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:在当时，作为总统的我不必做的事情是在欧洲大陆上买土地，不必担心爱尔兰岛被淹没，让我的人民迁移到另外的土地上。不管我是作为一个总统还是作为一个宪法律师，我都不需要考虑领土主权的问题会受气候变化的影响。但这是基里巴斯共和国总统TONG（汤）每天早上起床需要思考的问题。他在斐济买了土地作为一种保险政策，这被他称为“有尊严地迁移”。因为他知道他的人民必须离开他们的岛屿。当我听到汤总统描述这个情况，我真的觉得这是个总统不应该面对的问题。当我听到他谈起这些问题的痛苦，我想到了埃莉诺•罗斯福，想到她以及那些曾经与她一起在人权委员会工作的人，她在1948年担任人权委员会的主席，并起草了《世界人权宣言》。对于他们来说，难以想象的是整个国家可能因为人类活动导致的气候变化而消失，
en:What I didn&#39;t have to do as presidentwas buy land on mainland Europe,so that Irish citizens could go therebecause our island was going underwater.What I didn&#39;t have to think about,either as presidentor as a constitutional lawyer,was the implicationsfor the sovereignty of the territorybecause of the impact of climate change.But that is what President Tong,of the Republic of Kiribati,has to wake up every morningthinking about.He has bought land in Fijias an insurance policy,what he calls, &quot;migration with dignity,&quot;because he knows that his peoplemay have to leave their islands.As I listened to President Tongdescribing the situation,I really felt that this was a problemthat no leader should have to face.And as I heard him speakabout the pain of his problems,I thought about Eleanor Roosevelt.I thought about herand those who worked with heron the Commission on Human Rights,which she chaired in 1948,and drew up the UniversalDeclaration of Human Rights.For them, it would have been unimaginablethat a whole countrycould go out of existencebecause of human-induced climate change.
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:我来关注气候变化，不是因为我是一名科学家或环境法律师，我对北极熊或冰川融化的景象也没有特别深刻的印象。我来这里是因为它影响了人，影响了人们的权利—-对享有食物，安全用水，健康，教育和避难所的权利。我现在谦卑地说这些，是因为在关注气候变化问题上我来晚了。当我作为联合国人权事务高级专员的时候，（从1997到2002年）气候变化不是我首要考虑的问题。我不记得我曾做过专门关于气候变化的演讲。我知道联合国有另外的机构—-联合国气候变化大会负责气候变化的事情后来当我开始在非洲国家进行国家发展和人权方面的工作，我总是听到这样的话：“哦，但现在严重多了，情况严重多了”。然后我开始探索这背后意味着什么；这是关于气候变化的问题—-气候巨变，以及天气的变化。
en:I came to climate change not asa scientist or an environmental lawyer,and I wasn&#39;t really impressedby the images of polar bearsor melting glaciers.It was because of the impact on people,and the impact on their rights —their rights to food and safe water,health, education and shelter.And I say this with humility,because I came lateto the issue of climate change.When I servedas UN High Commissioner for Human Rightsfrom 1997 to 2002,climate change wasn&#39;tat the front of my mind.I don&#39;t remember makinga single speech on climate change.I knew that there was anotherpart of the United Nations —the UN Convention on Climate Change —that was dealing withthe issue of climate change.It was later when I startedto work in African countrieson issues of development and human rights.And I kept hearingthis pervasive sentence:&quot;Oh, but things are so much worse now,things are so much worse.&quot;And then I explored what was behind that;it was about changes in the climate —climate shocks, changes in the weather.
时间： 5:17
zh-cn:在那里我遇到Constance Okollet，她在乌干达东部建立了一个妇女组织，她告诉我，她小时候过着非常普通的乡村生活，他们不会挨饿，当特定的季节到来时他们可以预测到，他们知道何时播种何时收获，所以他们有充足的食物。但是，近年来，就在我们谈话的当时，她们一无所有，只有长时间的干旱，接着洪水，然后更多的干旱。学校被摧毁，生计被摧毁，他们的收获被摧毁。她建立这个妇女组织是为了让她的社区团结起来。这件事真的打动了我，因为Constance Okollet不该为温室气体排放问题负责。
en:I met Constance Okollet,who had formed a women&#39;s groupin Eastern Uganda,and she told me thatwhen she was growing up,she had a very normal life in her villageand they didn&#39;t go hungry,they knew that the seasons would comeas they were predicted to come,they knew when to sowand they knew when to harvest,and so they had enough food.But, in recent years,at the time of this conversation,they had nothingbut long periods of drought,and then flash flooding,and then more drought.The school had been destroyed,livelihoods had been destroyed,their harvest had been destroyed.She forms this women&#39;s groupto try to keep her community together.And this was a realitythat really struck me,because of course,Constance Okollet wasn&#39;t responsiblefor the greenhouse gas emissionsthat were causing this problem.
时间： 6:15
zh-cn:还有让我痛心的是今年一月在马拉维发生的情况。那里发生了前所未有的洪水，大约三分之一的国家被淹没，超过300人死亡，成千上万的人丢失了生计。马拉维的人均二氧化碳年排放量是80千克，而美国的人均二氧化碳年排放量是17.5吨。正在遭受苦难的那些人不开车，不用电，不过度消费，却受到越来越多气候变化的影响，这些变化让他们不知道如何恰当地种植粮食，不知如何照顾他们的未来。我想这真的非常不公正，强烈地打击了我。
en:Indeed, I was very struckabout the situation in Malawiin January of this year.There was an unprecedentedflooding in the country,it covered about a third of the country,over 300 people were killed,and hundreds of thousandslost their livelihoods.And the average person in Malawiemits about 80 kg of CO2 a year.The average US citizen emitsabout 17.5 metric tons.So those who are sufferingdisproportionatelydon&#39;t drive cars, don&#39;t have electricity,don&#39;t consume very significantly,and yet they are feeling more and morethe impacts of the changes in the climate,the changes that are preventing themfrom knowing how to grow food properly,and knowing howto look after their future.I think it was reallythe importance of the injusticethat really struck me very forcibly.
时间： 7:25
zh-cn:我知道我们没办法解决一些不公正，因为我们没有在走向一个安全的世界。世界各国政府在哥本哈根举行的会议上达成共识，并在每次气候大会上都重复的事情是：比起前工业时期的标准，全球变暖必须控制在2摄氏度以内，但是全球变暖正接近于大约4摄氏度。所以我们星球的未来面临着生存的威胁。这使我意识到在21世纪气候变化是对人权的最大威胁。
en:And I know that we&#39;re not ableto address some of that injusticebecause we&#39;re not on coursefor a safe world.Governments around the world agreedat the conference in Copenhagen,and have repeated itat every conference on climate,that we have to staybelow two degrees Celsiusof warming above pre-Industrial standards.But we&#39;re on coursefor about four degrees.So we face an existential threatto the future of our planet.And that made me realizethat climate change is the greatest threatto human rights in the 21st century.
时间： 8:08
zh-cn:这使得我开始关注气候公正。气候公正涉及到道德论证—包括道德论证的双方—应该如何应对气候变化问题。首先，我们需要站在那些遭受最多痛苦，受影响最多的人们的一边。其次，当我们开始行动的时候要确保他们不再被落下，我们要开始行动应对气候变化，正如我们正在做的那样。
en:And that brought me thento climate justice.Climate justice respondsto the moral argument —both sides of the moral argument —to address climate change.First of all,to be on the side of those who aresuffering most and are most effected.And secondly,to make sure that they&#39;re not left behindagain, when we start to moveand start to address climate changewith climate action,as we are doing.
时间： 8:38
zh-cn:在今天这个非常不平等的世界，被落下的人多得让人震惊。世界上一共72亿人，大约30亿人被落下。13亿人用不了电，他们用煤油和蜡烛照明，这是非常危险的。事实上，他们已经用了微少收入的很大一部分来照明。26亿人还在使用由煤、木头或动物粪便产生的明火做饭，这导致每年400万人死于室内烟雾吸入，当然，其中大部分是女性。所以这是一个非常不平等的世界，我们需要改变。我们不应低估需要改变的程度，需要改变的方式，因为我们必须在2050年之前实现碳的零排放。才能把全球变暖控制在2度以内，这意味着我们必须不再使用2/3已知的地下化石燃料资源。
en:In our very unequal world today,it&#39;s very striking how manypeople are left behind.In our world of 7.2 billion people,about 3 billion are left behind.1.3 billion don&#39;t have accessto electricity,and they light their homeswith kerosene and candles,both of which are dangerous.And in fact they spend a lot of theirtiny income on that form of lighting.2.6 billion people cook on open fires —on coal, wood and animal dung.And this causesabout 4 million deaths a yearfrom indoor smoke inhalation,and of course, most of thosewho die are women.So we have a very unequal world,and we need to changefrom &quot;business as usual.&quot;And we shouldn&#39;t underestimatethe scale and the transformative natureof the change which will be needed,because we have to go to zerocarbon emissions by about 2050,if we&#39;re going to stay belowtwo degrees Celsius of warming.And that means we have to leaveabout two-thirds of the known resourcesof fossil fuels in the ground.
时间：10:05
zh-cn:这是一个非常大的变化，这意味着发达国家必须削减排放，必须更加节能，必须尽快使用可再生能源。对于发展中国家和新兴经济体，它们的问题和挑战是如何在不排放的情况下获得发展，因为他们必须发展，他们还有很多贫困人口。所以他们必须在不排放的情况下发展，这是另外一个不同的问题。确实，世界上没有一个国家可以真正实现零排放发展。所有国家都通过使用化石燃料发展，然后可能再转向可再生能源。所以这是一个非常大的挑战，它需要国际社会的全力支持，必要的财务支持，技术支持，系统支持。因为没有国家可以逃脱气候变化带来的危险。解决这个问题需要全人类团结起来。让我们团结起来，如果你愿意，可以基于自身利益—因为我们是一起的，我们必须一起努力以确保在2015年前实现碳的零排放。
en:It&#39;s a very big change,and it means that obviously,industrialized countriesmust cut their emissions,must become much more energy-efficient,and must move as quickly as possibleto renewable energy.For developing countriesand emerging economies,the problem and the challengeis to grow without emissions,because they must develop;they have very poor populations.So they must develop without emissions,and that is a different kind of problem.Indeed, no country in the worldhas actually grown without emissions.All the countries have developedwith fossil fuels,and then may be movingto renewable energy.So it is a very big challenge,and it requires the total supportof the international community,with the necessary finance and technology,and systems and support,because no country can make itself safefrom the dangers of climate change.This is an issue that requirescomplete human solidarity.Human solidarity, if you like,based on self-interest —because we are all in this together,and we have to work togetherto ensure that we reachzero carbon by 2050.
时间：11:25
zh-cn:好消息是改变正在发生，并且发生得非常快。在加州这里，有一个非常雄心勃勃的削减排放的目标。在夏威夷，他们通过了一个法案，在2045年之前夏威夷将100%使用可再生能源。各国政府志在必得。在哥斯达黎加，人们致力于在2021年前实现碳中和。在埃塞尔比亚，人们承诺在2027年前实现碳中和。苹果承诺他们在中国的工厂将使用可再生能源。同时，正在进行还有利用潮汐和波浪发电的项目，目标是让我们不再使用地下的煤。这些改变是受欢迎的并且在迅速发生。但这些还不够，政治决心还不够。
en:The good news is that change is happening,and it&#39;s happening very fast.Here in California,there&#39;s a very ambitiousemissions target to cut emissions.In Hawaii, they&#39;re passing legislationto have 100 percentrenewable energy by 2045.And governments are very ambitiousaround the world.In Costa Rica, they have committedto being carbon-neutral by 2021.In Ethiopia, the commitmentis to be carbon-neutral by 2027.Apple have pledged that their factoriesin China will use renewable energy.And there is a race on at the momentto convert electricityfrom tidal and wave power,in order that we can leavethe coal in the ground.And that change is both welcomeand is happening very rapidly.But it&#39;s still not enough,and the political willis still not enough.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:让我们再看回汤总统和他在基里巴斯的人民。实际上有一个解决方案可以让他们继续住在岛上，但这需要强大的政治决心。汤告诉我，他的想法是建立一座岛屿甚至是使一座岛屿漂浮，这样他的人民就可以住在上面。当然，这超出了基里巴斯本身的能力和拥有的资源。它需要其他国家的团结和大力支持，就像我们要在太空建立空间站的时候，我们需要联合起来制定出一个富有想象力的方案。但那将是一件极好的事情，如果这个工程奇迹可以让那里的人们继续住在他们的领土里，并且成为国际社会的一部分。那是我们需要思考的问题。是的，改变的挑战是巨大的，但它们是可以解决的。实际上，我们人类，可以团结起来去解决问题。
en:Let me come back to President Tongand his people in Kiribati.They actually could be able to liveon their island and have a solution,but it would take a lot of political will.President Tong told meabout his ambitious ideato either build up or even floatthe little islands where his people live.This, of course, is beyondthe resources of Kiribati itself.It would require great solidarityand support from other countries,and it would requirethe kind of imaginative ideathat we bring together when we wantto have a space station in the air.But wouldn&#39;t it be wonderfulto have this engineering wonderand to allow a people to remainin their sovereign territory,and be part of the community of nations?That is the kind of ideathat we should be thinking about.Yes, the challengesof the transformation we need are big,but they can be solved.We are actually, as a people,very capable of coming togetherto solve problems.
时间：13:41
zh-cn:我清醒地意识到这一点，尤其是今年我参加世界反法西斯战争胜利70周年纪念活动的时候。1945年是不平凡的一年。那一年全世界必须面对许多棘手的问题—世界大战尤其是第二次世界大战造成的破坏，脆弱的和平局势，整个经济需要复苏。但当时的领导人并没有退缩。他们有能力，有信心，让世界不再遭受这类问题。他们必须为世界的和平和安全建立架构。我们从中获得了什么？他们实现了什么？联合国宪章，布列敦森林机构，或者他们说的世界银行和国际货币基金组织。以及为了重建欧洲而制定的马歇尔计划。当然还有几年之后发布的《世界人权宣言》。
en:I was very conscious of thisas I took part this yearin commemoration of the 70th anniversaryof the end of the SecondWorld War in 1945.1945 was an extraordinary year.It was a year when the world facedwhat must have seemed almostinsoluble problems —the devastation of the world wars,particularly the Second World War;the fragile peace that hadbeen brought about;the need for a wholeeconomic regeneration.But the leaders of that timedidn&#39;t flinch from this.They had the capacity, they hada sense of being driven bynever again must the worldhave this kind of problem.And they had to build structuresfor peace and security.And what did we get?What did they achieve?The Charter of the United Nations,the Bretton Woods institutions,as they&#39;re called, The World Bank,and the International Monetary Fund.A Marshall Plan for Europe,a devastated Europe,to reconstruct it.And indeed a few years later,the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
时间：14:55
zh-cn:2015年是和1945年类似的一年，类似的挑战和类似的可能性。今年将有2个大的峰会：一个将于9月份在纽约举行，这是关于可持续发展的峰会。另一个将于11月在巴黎举行，气候协议将在这个峰会上达成。可持续发展目标旨在帮助各国进行可持续发展，和地球母亲和谐共处，不忽视地球母亲，不破坏生态系统。更确切地说，通过可持续发展的生活方式和地球母亲和谐共处。这个可持续发展目标将从2016年1月1日开始在世界各国实施。而气候协议—是对各国有约束力的协议—这是非常有必要的，因为有科学证据表明，我们的全球变暖正接近4摄氏度，而我们必须将其控制在2度以内。所以我们需要采取可以监控和审查的措施，增强减少排放的决心，增强尽快使用可再生能源的决心，这样我们才会有一个安全的世界。
en:2015 is a year that is similarin its importanceto 1945, with similar challengesand similar potential.There will be two big summits this year:the first one, in September in New York,is the summit for the sustainabledevelopment goals.And then the summit in Paris in December,to give us a climate agreement.The sustainable development goalsare intended to help countriesto live sustainably,in tune with Mother Earth,not to take out of Mother Earthand destroy ecosystems,but rather, to live in harmonywith Mother Earth,by living under sustainable development.And the sustainable development goalswill come into operation for all countrieson January 1, 2016.The climate agreement —a binding climate agreement —is needed becauseof the scientific evidencethat we&#39;re on a trajectoryfor about a four-degree worldand we have to change courseto stay below two degrees.So we need to take stepsthat will be monitored and reviewed,so that we can keep increasingthe ambition of how we cut emissions,and how we move more rapidlyto renewable energy,so that we have a safe world.
时间：16:26
zh-cn:事实上，这个问题太重要了，不能把它留给政客或联合国决定。
en:The reality is that this issueis much too importantto be left to politiciansand to the United Nations.
时间：16:36
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：16:37
zh-cn:这是我们所有人的问题，我们需要更多的动力去应对它。这已不仅仅是环保人士的问题，因为它已涉及到公正维度。现在，它还是一个罗马教皇弗朗西斯领导的宗教组织的问题。英国的教会确实已经不再使用化石燃料。这还是一个商界的问题，好消息是商界的改变非常迅速—除了化石燃料行业外。
en:It&#39;s an issue for all of us,and it&#39;s an issue where we needmore and more momentum.Indeed, the face ofthe environmentalist has changed,because of the justice dimension.It&#39;s now an issuefor faith-based organizations,under very good leadershipfrom Pope Francis,and indeed, the Church of England,which is divesting from fossil fuels.It&#39;s an issue for the business community,and the good news isthat the business communityis changing very rapidly —except for the fossil fuel industries —
时间：17:10
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：17:12
zh-cn:他们正在开始一点点地改变他们的说法和做法，虽然只是一点点，但是商业不仅能迅速推动可再生能源的好处，而且还推动政客们给他们更多的信号，这样他们可以改变得更快一些。这是一个贸易联盟运动的问题，一个妇女运动的问题，一个年轻人们的问题。
en:Even they are beginningto slightly change their language —but only slightly.But business is not only moving rapidlyto the benefits of renewable energy,but is urging politiciansto give them more signals,so that they can move even more rapidly.It&#39;s an issue for the tradeunion movement.It&#39;s an issue for the women&#39;s movement.It&#39;s an issue for young people.
时间：17:32
zh-cn:Jibreel Khazan说的一句话触动了我，他是参加1960年格林斯伯勒伍尔沃斯店静坐抗议活动的4个成员中的一员。他说，气候变化是当下年轻人的“午餐柜台时刻”。所以，这是21世纪年轻人的“午餐柜台时刻”—21世纪真正的人权问题，因为他说气候变化是对当今世界人权和公正的最大挑战。
en:I was very struck when I learnedthat Jibreel Khazan,one of the Greensboro Four who hadtaken part in the Woolworth sit-ins,said quite recently thatclimate change is the lunch countermoment for young people.So, lunch counter momentfor young people of the 21st century —the sort of real human rights issueof the 21st century,because he said it isthe greatest challengeto humanity and justice in our world.
时间：18:07
zh-cn:我清楚地记得去年9月的气候示威游行，那是一个非常大的运动，不仅在纽约，全世界都在参与，我们必须进行这样的游行。我跟着一些老年人家庭游行的时候，看到一个靠近我的标语牌，但是我们被人群挤开—毕竟，在纽约街道那里有40万人—所以我不能完全靠近到那个标语牌。我只是希望能跟随它前进，因为它上面写着：“愤怒的奶奶！”
en:I recall very muchthe Climate March last September,and that was a huge momentum,not just in New York,but all around the world.and we have to build on that.I was marching with someof The Elders family,and I saw a placarda little bit away from me,but we were wedged so closely together —because after all, there were 400,000people out in the streets of New York —so I couldn&#39;t quite get to that placard,I would have just liked to have beenable to step behind it,because it said, &quot;Angry Grannies!&quot;
时间：18:40
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：18:41
zh-cn:这正是我现在的感受。我现在有五个孙儿，我非常开心我是一个有5个孙儿的爱尔兰祖母，并且我在考虑他们的世界。到2050年他们将和其他的90亿人生活在怎样的世界里。我知道，不可避免地，未来的世界将是气候约束的世界。因为我们今天产生的排放，但它也可以是一个比现在这个世界更平等，更公平，更健康，能更好工作，能源更安全的世界。如果我们能有效地转变，并尽早使用可再生能源，不落下任何人。那么就没有人会被落下。
en:That&#39;s what I felt.And I have five grandchildren now,I feel very happy as an Irish grandmotherto have five grandchildren,and I think about their world,and what it will belike when they will share that worldwith about 9 billion other people in 2050.We know that inevitably it willbe a climate-constrained world,because of the emissionswe&#39;ve already put up there,but it could be a world that is muchmore equal and much fairer,and much better for health,and better for jobsand better for energy security,than the world we have now,if we have switched sufficientlyand early enough to renewable energy,and no one is left behind.No one is left behind.
时间：19:34
zh-cn:正如我们今年的回顾—从2015年回顾到1945年，回顾70年—我想我们的后代也会回顾，他们在2050年会回顾之前的35年，回顾35年前的2015年他们会说：“我们的前辈在2015年不是做得很好吗？我们真的很感激他们在当时做的决策，这改变了我们的未来，把世界引向了正确的道路，并使我们现在得益于那正确的道路。”他们会觉得我们尽了我们的责任，我们做了和1945年类似的事情，我们没有错过这个机会，我们无愧于我们的责任。这就是今年要做的。
en:And just as we&#39;ve beenlooking back this year —in 2015 to 1945, looking back 70 years —I would like to thinkthat they will look back,that world will look back35 years from 2050,35 years to 2015,and that they will say,&quot;Weren&#39;t they goodto do what they did in 2015?We really appreciate that they tookthe decisions that made a difference,and that put the worldon the right pathway,and we benefit now from that pathway,&quot;that they will feel that somehowwe took our responsibilities,we did what was donein 1945 in similar terms,we didn&#39;t miss the opportunity,we lived up to our responsibilities.That&#39;s what this year is about.
时间：20:28
zh-cn:对我而言，一个我非常钦佩的人的话语打动了我。她是我的导师，一个朋友，她死的时候很年轻，她是不平凡的人，一个环保卫士：旺加里·马塔伊。她曾说：“在历史的进程中，在某一时刻，人类需要进入一个新的意识水平，达到一个更高的道德立场。”这是我们必须做的。我们必须进入一个新的意识水平，达到一个更高的道德立场。我们必须在今年的两个大峰会上做到这点，这需要来自世界各地的人们聚在一起，并且说：“我们要现在行动，我们要改变，我们要一个安全的世界，一个给后代的安全世界，一个给我们孩子孙儿的安全世界，让我们一起共同面对！”
en:And somehow for me,it&#39;s captured in words of somebodythat I admired very much.She was a mentor of mine,she was a friend,she died much too young,she was an extraordinary personality,a great champion of the environment:Wangari Maathai.Wangari said once,&quot;In the course of history,there comes a timewhen humanity is called uponto shift to a new level of consciousness,to reach a higher moral ground.&quot;And that&#39;s what we have to do.We have to reacha new level of consciousness,a higher moral ground.And we have to do it this yearin those two big summits.And that won&#39;t happen unlesswe have the momentumfrom people around the world who say:&quot;We want action now,we want to change course,we want a safe world,a safe world for future generations,a safe world for our childrenand our grandchildren,and we&#39;re all in this together.&quot;
时间：21:33
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间：21:34
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
