时间： 0:11
zh-cn:一年前，我们受瑞士驻柏林大使馆邀请来展示我们的艺术作品。我们习惯了受邀，但这次邀请却真正让我们激动不已。瑞士驻柏林大使馆很特别。它是二战中未受摧毁的政府区域中的唯一一座老建筑，而且它就坐落在联邦总理府的右侧。瑞士外交官们是离德国总理默克尔最近的人了。
en:A year ago, we were invitedby the Swiss Embassy in Berlinto present our art projects.We are used to invitations,but this invitation really thrilled us.The Swiss Embassy in Berlin is special.It is the only old buildingin the government districtthat was not destroyedduring the Second World War,and it sits right nextto the Federal Chancellery.No one is closer to Chancellor Merkelthan the Swiss diplomats.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:(笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:柏林的政府区也包括德国国会大厦—德国的议会—-和勃兰登堡门，其右侧是其他的大使馆，主要是美国和英国大使馆。
en:The government district in Berlinalso contains the Reichstag —Germany&#39;s parliament —and the Brandenburg Gate,and right next to the gatethere are other embassies,in particular the USand the British Embassy.
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:尽管德国是先进的民主制，但市民在政府区享有的宪法权利是有限的。集会权和游行权在这里是受限的。而这点从艺术的角度来看是有趣的。参与活动与表达自己的机会经常与一定的秩序密切关联而且经常受到某个规定的影响。意识到对于这些规定的依赖性，我们能获得一个新的视角。给定的条款和条件塑造了我们的看法，我们的行为以及我们的生活。
en:Although Germany is an advanced democracy,citizens are limitedin their constitutional rightsin its government district.The right of assembly and the rightto demonstrate are restricted there.And this is interestingfrom an artistic point of view.The opportunities to exerciseparticipation and to express oneselfare always bound to a certain orderand always subjectto a specific regulation.With an awareness of the dependenciesof these regulations,we can gain a new perspective.The given terms and conditionsshape our perception, our actionsand our lives.
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:并且这在其他的背景下是关键的。在过去的几年里，我们了解到从美国和英国大使馆的屋顶上，特勤人员已经监听了整个区域，包括安格拉·默克尔的手机。英国国家通信总局的天线藏在一个白色的圆筒形天线罩里，美国国家安全局的监听站被无线电透明屏幕遮盖。
en:And this is crucial in another context.Over the last couple of years,we learned that from the roofsof the US and the British Embassy,the secret services have been listeningto the entire district,including the mobile phoneof Angela Merkel.The antennas of the British GCHQ arehidden in a white cylindrical radome,while the listening postof the American NSAis covered by radio transparent screens.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:但是应该怎样与这些隐藏的伪装势力对话呢？跟我的同事，克里斯托夫·沃切特一起，我们接受了瑞士大使馆的邀请。我们利用这次机会来探索这个特殊情况。
en:But how to address these hiddenand disguised forces?With my colleague, Christoph Wachter,we accepted the invitationof the Swiss Embassy.And we used this opportunityto exploit the specific situation.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:如果有人调查我们，这应当意味着他们有不得不听的正当理由。
en:If people are spying on us,it stands to reasonthat they have to listento what we are saying.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:在瑞士大使馆的屋顶上，我们安装了一系列的天线。这些天线不如美国和英国使用的那些先进。
en:On the roof of the Swiss Embassy,we installed a series of antennas.They weren&#39;t as sophisticated as thoseused by the Americans and the British.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:这些天线凑合能用，也没有伪装和遮盖，就完全是明显的可以看见的。艺术学院参与了这个项目，所以我们在它们的屋顶建造了另一个大型天线，就正好在美国国家安全局与英国国家通信总局的监听站中间。
en:They were makeshift can antennas,not camouflaged but totallyobvious and visible.The Academy of Arts joined the project,and so we built anotherlarge antenna on their rooftop,exactly between the listening postsof the NSA and the GCHQ.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:我们从来都没试过在建造一个艺术建筑时受到如此细致的观察。一架直升机在我们头顶盘旋，一台摄像机记录了我们每个动作，而且在美国大使馆的屋顶上，有保安人员在巡逻。虽然政府区由一个严格的警察秩序在管理，但仍然没有数字通信相关的特定法律。因此我们的安装是完全合法的，而且瑞士大使把这件事告知了默尔克总理。我们把这个工程叫做“你能听到我吗？”
en:Never have we been observed in such detailwhile building an art installation.A helicopter circled over our headswith a camera registeringeach and every move we made,and on the roof of the US Embassy,security officers patrolled.Although the government districtis governed by a strict police order,there are no specific lawsrelating to digital communication.Our installationwas therefore perfectly legal,and the Swiss Ambassadorinformed Chancellor Merkel about it.We named the project &quot;Can You Hear Me?&quot;
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:我们的天线创造了一个公开免费的无线通信网络使得任何以前想或将要参与的人能够使用任何的无线设备，没有任何阻碍地发信息给那些在监听截获频率的人。文字信息，语音聊天，文件共享—-任何东西都可以匿名发送。而且人们也这样交流了。超过一万五千条的信息被发出。举几个例子。
en:The antennas created an openand free Wi-Fi communication networkin which anyone who wanted towould be able to participateusing any Wi-Fi-enabled devicewithout any hindrance,and be able to send messagesto those listening on the frequenciesthat were being intercepted.Text messages, voice chat, file sharing —anything could be sent anonymously.And people did communicate.Over 15,000 messages were sent.Here are some examples.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:“世界你好，柏林你好，国家安全总局你好，国家通信总局你好。“
en:&quot;Hello world, hello Berlin,hello NSA, hello GCHQ.&quot;
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:“安全局的人，做该做的事！去告你的密吧！”
en:&quot;NSA Agents, Do the Right Thing!Blow the whistle!&quot;
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:“这是国家安全总局。我们只相信上帝。其他的我们都跟踪！！！”
en:&quot;This is the NSA. In God we trust.All others we track!!!!!&quot;
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:“#@匿名者正在监视#国家安全总局#国家通信总局-我们是你们的人。#期待我们。我们会#关门大吉”
en:&quot;#@nonymous is watching #NSA #GCHQ -we are part of your organizations.# expect us. We will #shutdown&quot;
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:“这是国家安全总局的弱点。打开网络。”
en:&quot;This is the NSA&#39;s Achilles heel.Open Networks.&quot;
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:“间谍们，你将来会给你的孙子讲什么关于自己的变态故事？”
en:&quot;Agents, what twisted story of yourselfwill you tell your grandchildren?&quot;
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:“国家安全总局，我的邻居太吵了。请派一架无人机来袭击他们。”
en:&quot;@NSA My neighbors are noisy.Please send a drone strike.&quot;
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:“制造浪漫，但别制造网络战争。”
en:&quot;Make Love, Not cyberwar.&quot;
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:我们也邀请了大使馆和政府部门参与到公共的网络中，令我们的惊讶的是，它们竟然加入了。文件出现在网络上，包括从议会调查委员会泄露出去的机密文件，文件强调重要信息的自由交流和讨论开始变得困难，即使是在议会成员中。我们还组织了导游来体验和探索现场的通信体系。参观团拜访了使馆周围的限制区，我们讨论了通信的潜力和重点。
en:We invited the embassiesand the government departmentsto participate in the open network, too,and to our surprise, they did.Files appeared on the network,including classified documentsleaked from the parliamentaryinvestigation commission,which highlights that the free exchangeand discussion of vital informationis starting to become difficult,even for members of a parliament.We also organized guided toursto experience and sound outthe power constellations on-site.The tours visited the restricted zonesaround the embassies,and we discussed the potentialand the highlights of communication.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:如果我们开始意识到通信的体系，条款和条件，这不仅能开阔我们的视野，还能帮我们探寻那些限制我们视角的规定的背后，我们特定的社会，政治或者审美的惯例。
en:If we become aware of the constellation,the terms and conditions of communication,it not only broadens our horizon,it allows us to look behindthe regulations that limit our worldview,our specific social, politicalor aesthetic conventions.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:我们来看一个实际例子。在巴黎郊区的临时定居点生活的人们的命运被隐藏并逐渐从人们的视角中消褪。这是一个恶性循环。新鲜的不是贫穷，不是种族主义，也不是被排外。新鲜的是这些事实是如何被隐藏的，新鲜的是在这个全球通信交流如此发达的时代，这些人是如何变隐形的。这样的临时定居点被看作是非法的，因此住在这里的人没有机会发出自己的声音。相反，每次他们的出现，每次他们冒着暴露的危险，仅仅是给出更多的理由去进一步迫害，驱逐和压制他们。我们感兴趣的是我们如何能去了解这隐藏的一面。我们在寻找一个接口，而且我们找到了一个。这并不是一个数字接口，而是一个存在的实体：是一个旅馆。
en:Let&#39;s look at an actual example.The fate of people livingin the makeshift settlementson the outskirts of Parisis hidden and faded from view.It&#39;s a vicious circle.It&#39;s not poverty, not racism,not exclusion that are new.What is new is howthese realities are hiddenand how people are made invisiblein an age of global and overwhelmingcommunication and exchange.Such makeshift settlementsare considered illegal,and therefore those living in themdon&#39;t have a chanceof making their voices heard.On the contrary, every time they appear,every time they risk becoming visible,merely gives groundsfor further persecution,expulsion and suppression.What interested us was how we couldcome to know this hidden side.We were searching for an interfaceand we found one.It&#39;s not a digital interface,but a physical one: it&#39;s a hotel.
时间： 6:50
zh-cn:我们把这个项目起名为“Gelem 旅馆”与罗姆人家庭一起，我们在欧洲创建了几个Gelem 旅馆，比如，在德国的弗赖堡，在巴黎附近的蒙特勒伊，在巴尔干也有。这是真正的旅馆。人们可以住在那里。但是它们不是一个商业性的企业。它们是一个象征。你可以在网上进行个人预约，预约来旅馆住上几天，在这里吃，工作，与罗姆人家庭一起生活。在这里，罗姆人家庭不是旅行者；而参观者们是。在这里，罗姆人家庭不是少数民族；而参观者们是。
en:We named the project &quot;Hotel Gelem.&quot;Together with Roma families,we created several Hotel Gelems in Europe,for example, in Freiburg in Germany,in Montreuil near Paris,and also in the Balkans.These are real hotels.People can stay there.But they aren&#39;t a commercial enterprise.They are a symbol.You can go online and askfor a personal invitationto come and live for a few daysin the Hotel Gelem, in their homes,eating, working and livingwith the Roma families.Here, the Roma familiesare not the travelers;the visitors are.Here, the Roma familiesare not a minority;the visitors are.
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:意义并不在于做出评判，而在于找出那些能确定这些不同的而且看似不可逾越的矛盾的相关因素。在全球化的世界里，各大洲的距离在拉近。文化，商品和人在进行永恒的交流，但与此同时，存在于特权世界和被排外世界之间的差距在增长。
en:The point is not to make judgments,but rather to find outabout the context that determinesthese disparate and seeminglyinsurmountable contradictions.In the world of globalization,the continents are driftingcloser to each other.Cultures, goods and peopleare in permanent exchange,but at the same time, the gapbetween the world of the privilegedand the world of the excluded is growing.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:最近我们在澳大利亚。对于我们来说，进入这个国家不难。我们有欧洲护照，签证和机票。但是那些乘船到澳大利亚寻求避难的人会被驱逐或关进监狱。船只的截获以及人们在拘留所里消失的事实都被澳大利亚政府隐藏了。这些行动对外宣称是秘密的军事行动。在经历过从危机和战争区的大逃亡后，男人，女人和孩子们在没有审判的情况下被澳拘留，有时一拘就是几年。
en:We were recently in Australia.For us, it was no problemto enter the country.We have European passports,visas and air tickets.But asylum seekers who arriveby boat in Australiaare deported or taken to prison.The interception of the boatsand the disappearance of the peopleinto the detention systemare veiled by the Australian authorities.These procedures are declaredto be secret military operations.After dramatic escapesfrom crisis zones and war zones,men, women and childrenare detained by Australia without trial,sometimes for years.
时间： 8:36
zh-cn:然而，在我们停留的时候，虽然有严格的筛选和隔离我们仍设法联系并见到了被拘禁的寻求避难者。在这样的背景下，一件作品在布里斯班的昆士兰科技大学的艺术广场诞生了。
en:During our stay, however,we managed to reach out and workwith asylum seekers who were imprisoned,despite strict screening and isolation.From these contexts was bornan installation in the art spaceof the Queensland Universityof Technology in Brisbane.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:从正面看，这是一个很简单的装置。在地面上，一个程式化的指南针给出方向，指向每一个移民拘留中心，并伴有移民局的距离和名称。但是展览梯是以连通的形式呈现的。在每个楼层标识上，都有一个耳麦装置。参观者有机会直接与难民对话，这些难民都是在某个拘留所被监禁或已被监禁很久的，参观者可与他们进行个人对话。在受艺术展览保护的情况下，寻求避难者可以自由地谈论自己，谈论自己的故事，现状，不用惧怕由此产生的后果。参观者都投入到对话很久，谈论关于家破人亡，关于从战争区的大逃亡，关于难民的自杀倾向，关于在拘禁中的儿童的命运。感情至深处，很多人都哭了。很多人再次造访展览。这是一次很有影响力的经历。
en:On the face of it,it was a very simple installation.On the floor, a stylized compassgave the directionto each immigration detention center,accompanied by the distanceand the name of the immigration facility.But the exhibition stepcame in the form of connectivity.Above every floor marking,there was a headset.Visitors were offered the opportunityto talk directly to a refugeewho was or had been imprisonedin a specific detention facilityand engage in a personal conversation.In the protected contextof the art exhibition,asylum seekers felt freeto talk about themselves,their story and their situation,without fear of consequences.Visitors immersed themselvesin long conversationsabout families torn apart,about dramatic escapes from war zones,about suicide attempts,about the fate of children in detention.Emotions ran deep. Many wept.Several revisited the exhibition.It was a powerful experience.
时间： 9:57
zh-cn:欧洲正面临着一大批移民。寻求避难者的现状因为矛盾的政策以及军事化反应的推动变得更糟。我们已经在瑞士和希腊的偏远难民营建立了通信系统。这些系统的作用在于提供基本信息—-天气预报，法律信息，指导。但这些信息很重要。网络上的那些能确保在危险路径上传播的信息受到了审查，而且提供这种信息的行为逐渐变成一种犯罪。
en:Europe is now facing a stream of migrants.The situation for the asylum seekersis made worse by contradictory policiesand the temptationof militarized responses.We have also establishedcommunication systemsin remote refugee centersin Switzerland and Greece.They are all about providingbasic information — weather forecasts,legal information, guidance.But they are significant.Information on the Internetthat could ensure survivalalong dangerous routesis being censored,and the provision of such informationis becoming increasingly criminalized.
时间：10:35
zh-cn:这使得我们回到我们在驻柏林瑞士大使馆屋顶上建造的网络和天线，回到我们的“你能听到我吗？”这个项目。我们不应该将无限连接视为理所当然。我们应该开始制造自己的连接，为建立一个平等的全球互联的世界而奋斗。这对于战胜我们的话语无能，战胜由对立的政治力量造成的分化非常重要。只有将我们自己真正暴露于这种经历的变革力量面前，我们才能够战胜偏见和排外。
en:This brings us back to our networkand to the antennason the roof of the Swiss Embassy in Berlinand the &quot;Can You Hear Me?&quot; project.We should not take it for grantedto be boundlessly connected.We should start makingour own connections,fighting for this idea of an equaland globally interconnected world.This is essential to overcomeour speechlessnessand the separation provokedby rival political forces.It is only in truly exposing ourselvesto the transformative powerof this experiencethat we can overcomeprejudice and exclusion.
时间：11:09
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：11:10
zh-cn:（观众鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:15
zh-cn:布鲁诺·朱萨尼：谢谢你，马蒂亚斯与你一起创造艺术的同事也在这里。克里斯托夫·沃切特，请到台上来。
en:Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Mathias.The other half of yourartistic duo is also here.Christoph Wachter, come onstage.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:（观众鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:26
zh-cn:首先，告诉我一个细节：旅馆的名字不是一个随便起的名字。Gelem 在罗马语中有特殊意义。
en:First, tell me just a detail:the name of the hotelis not a random name.Gelem means something specificin the Roma language.
时间：11:33
zh-cn:马蒂亚斯·犹：是的，&quot;Gelem, Gelem&quot;是罗姆赞歌的标题，官方的标题，而且它的意思是“我走了很长的路”。
en:Mathias Jud: Yes, &quot;Gelem, Gelem&quot;is the title of the Romani hymn,the official, and it means&quot;I went a long way.&quot;
时间：11:41
zh-cn:布鲁诺·朱萨尼：这只是给你的演讲补充了一个细节。但是你们俩去了莱斯沃斯岛，就在最近，你们刚回来几天，在希腊，成千上万的难民陆续抵达，在过去的几个月里一直有。你们在那里看到了什么，做了什么？
en:BG: That&#39;s just to addthe detail to your talk.But you two traveledto the island of Lesbosvery recently, you&#39;re just backa couple of days ago,in Greece, where thousandsof refugees are arrivingand have been arrivingover the last few months.What did you see thereand what did you do there?
时间：11:56
zh-cn:克里斯托夫·沃切特：莱斯沃斯岛是希腊群岛中比较接近土耳其的，我们在那的时候，很多难民乘坐拥挤的小艇到达，登陆后，他们就只能靠自己了。很多服务都拒绝提供给他们。例如，他们不能买公交车票，不能租住旅馆房间，因此很多家庭直接就睡在马路上。然后我们在那安装了网络进行最基本的通信，因为我认为，我相信，不仅是因为我们要做关于难民的演讲，我想我们要开始与他们对话。通过与他们对话，我们能认识到这有关人类，有关他们的生活，而且有关他们为生存进行的斗争。
en:Christoph Wachter: Well, Lesbos is oneof the Greek islands close to Turkey,and during our stay,many asylum seekers arrived by boaton overcrowded dinghies,and after landing, they were leftcompletely on their own.They are denied many services.For example, they are not allowedto buy a bus ticketor to rent a hotel room,so many families literallysleep in the streets.And we installed networks thereto allow basic communication,because I think, I believe,it&#39;s not only that we have to speakabout the refugees,I think we need to start talking to them.And by doing so, we can realizethat it is about human beings,about their livesand their struggle to survive.
时间：12:46
zh-cn:布鲁诺·朱萨尼：同时也让他们拥有话语权。克里斯托夫，感谢你来到TED。马蒂亚斯，感谢你来到TED跟大家分享你们的故事。
en:BG: And allow them to talk as well.Christoph, thank you for coming to TED.Mathias, thank you for coming to TEDand sharing your story.
时间：12:53
zh-cn:（观众鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
