时间： 0:11
zh-cn:1975年，我在佛罗伦萨巧遇了卡洛·佩德雷蒂教授，我曾经的艺术史老师，如今他已是位享誉世界的莱昂纳多达芬奇研究家。他问我是否能找到一些技术手段去解开一个长达五个世纪的谜团，关于达芬奇失传的作品——那幅本来应该保存于佛罗伦萨的韦奇奥宫500人大厅的名画““安吉亚里之战”。但是在上个世纪70年代没有太多施展才华的机会给我们这些生物工程学家，尤其是在意大利，所以我决定，加入一个由美国学者和佛罗伦萨大学共同发起的研究团队，深入探究那些由瓦萨里主持装饰在500人大厅墙上的壁画搜索莱昂纳多达芬奇丢失的作品。
en:In 1975, I met in Florence a professor, Carlo Pedretti,my former professor of art history, and todaya world-renowned scholar of Leonardo da Vinci.Well, he asked me if I could find some technological wayto unfold a five-centuries-old mystery related toa lost masterpiece by Leonardo da Vinci,the &quot;Battle of Anghiari,&quot; which is supposed to be locatedin the Hall of the 500 in Palazzo Vecchio, in Florence.Well, in the mid-&#39;70s, there were not great opportunitiesfor a bioengineer like me, especially in Italy, and soI decided, with some researchers from the United Statesand the University of Florence, to start probing the muralsdecorated by Vasari on the long walls of the Hall of the 500searching for the lost Leonardo.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:不幸的是，那时候我们还处在起步阶段完全没有任何头绪，不知道该从哪里开始寻找，所以我们并没有取得什么实质进展，因为我们没有深入的搜索，研究也因此停滞不前，直到2000年靠着吉尼斯家族的鼎力相助，研究活动才得以再度开展。所以，这次我们将竭尽全力重现500人大厅重修之前的本来面目，不仅如此我们还要重现传说中建于1494年的萨拉格兰德墙，为了重现当年的那些门窗，为了达到这一目的，我们首先制作了一些3D模型，随后依靠热成像技术，我们找到了一些隐藏起来的的窗户。这些窗户都是最初存在于萨拉格兰德墙上的。不仅如此我们还测出了最初天花板的高度，经过我们的不懈努力，最终，我们找出了瓦萨里改造之前500人大厅的原始规划与布局并且成功的重现了这一切包括一个非常重要的扶梯此扶梯是当时为了准确安放““安吉亚里之战”而准备的众多工具之一。
en:Unfortunately, at that time we did not know thatthat was not exactly where we should be looking,because we had to go much deeper in, and so the researchcame to a halt, and it was only taken up in 2000thanks to the interest and the enthusiasm of the Guinness family.Well, this time, we focused on trying to reconstructthe way the Hall of the 500 was before the remodeling,and the so-called Sala Grande, which was built in 1494,and to find out the original doors, windows,and in order to do that, we first created a 3D model,and then, with thermography, we went on to discoverhidden windows. These are the original windows of the hallof the Sala Grande. We also found out about the heightof the ceiling, and we managed to reconstruct, therefore,all the layout of this original hallthe way it was before there came Vasari,and restructured the whole thing,including a staircase that was very importantin order to precisely place &quot;The Battle of Anghiari&quot;on a specific area of one of the two walls.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:而且我们还找到至少两个保护珍惜艺术品的案例，由美第奇家族的大公爵科西莫一世授权负责1560年和1574年500人大厅改造工程的瓦萨里先生所设计。具体措施是留出少许的间隙在新墙壁与原有墙壁之间。其中之一是在佛罗伦萨圣塔玛利亚·诺维拉教堂，保护马萨乔的作品，所以我们推测，也许，瓦萨里在500人大厅工程上也会用相同的方法保护达芬奇的伟大艺术品，因为他也是达芬奇的铁杆粉丝。
en:Well, we also learned that Vasari, who was commissionedto remodel the Hall of the 500 between 1560 and 1574by the Grand Duke Cosimo I of the Medici family,we have at least two instances when he saved masterpiecesspecifically by placing a brick wall in front of itand leaving a small air gap.One that we [see] here, Masaccio, the church of Santa Maria Novella in Florence,so we just said, well maybe, Visari has done somethinglike that in the case of this great work of art by Leonardo,since he was a great admirer of Leonardo da Vinci.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:于是我们专门搭建一些非常复杂的雷达装置专门对墙壁进行侦测，希望能找到存在于墙于墙之前的间隙。最终我们确实找到了类似的间隙位于东墙的右侧，一个间隙，而且那里恰恰是我们一直推测的““安吉亚里之战”被放置的位置，或者至少是另一幅壁画“为军旗而战”的所在地。
en:And so we built some very sophisticated radio antennasjust for probing both walls and searching for an air gap.And we did find many on the right panel of the east wall,an air gap, and that&#39;s wherewe believe &quot;The Battle of Anghiari,&quot;or at least the part that we know has been painted,which is called &quot;The Fight for the Standard,&quot; should be located.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:很可惜的是2004年我们的研究活动被迫中止因为各种各样的政治因素所以我那时决定回到我的母校，加州大学圣地亚哥分校，随后在我的倡议下为了更好的把工程科学运用到文化遗产的研究上，我校在2007年成立了CISA3 研究中心，具体研究包括文化遗产，艺术，建筑学和考古学。 愈来愈多的学生加入了我们，自此我们开始开发各种必要的技术，因为我们认为只有开发更多的技术才能在实践工作中取得进展。
en:Well, from there, unfortunately,in 2004, the projectcame to a halt. Many political reasons.So I decided to go back to my alma mater,and, at the University of California, San Diego,and I proposed to open up a research centerfor engineering sciences for cultural heritage.And in 2007, we created CISA3 as a research centerfor cultural heritage, specifically art, architectureand archaeology. So students started to flow in,and we started to build technologies, because that&#39;sbasically what we also needed in order to move forwardand go and do fieldwork.
时间： 3:48
zh-cn:我们在2011重返500人大厅，这一次，多了一大批优秀的学生以及我的同事，CISA3现任主管，法考库斯特教授， 我们这次回来已经是胸有成竹，我们知道这次该去哪找，找出那里究竟还有什么。但是我们遇到各种刁难，或者说被限制因为一些根本不值得解释的原因虽然我们有很多其他选择，却只能使用内镜检查技术通过一个4毫米镜头来窥视，我们最终还是成功的证明并且发现一些彩色的碎片包括淡红色碎片，黑色碎片一些米黄色碎片随后也被发现我们立刻对这些碎片展开了更多复杂的检验包括射线荧光光谱，X光射线衍射，最终的结果对于我们的推测非常有利至此，我们认为这个现象指出我们确实找到了一些颜料，而且我们能肯定没有其他的艺术家曾经在这张墙上作画直到大约六十年后瓦萨里来到这里，所以，这些颜料已经被确定跟壁画有密切的联系很有可能就是达芬奇那幅。
en:We came back in the Hall of the 500 in 2011,and this time, with a great group of students,and my colleague, Professor Falko Kuester,who is now the director at CISA3, and wecame back just since we knew already where to look forto find out if there was still something left.Well, we were confined though, limited, I should rather say,for several reasons that it&#39;s not worth explaining,to endoscopy only, of the many other options we had,and with a 4mm camera attached to it,we were successful in documenting and takingsome fragments of what it turns out to bea reddish color, black color, and there is somebeige fragments that later onwe ran a much more sophisticated exams,XRF, X-ray diffraction, and the results are very positiveso far. It seems to indicate that indeedwe have found some pigments, and since we know for surethat no other artist has painted on that wallbefore Vasari came in about 60 years later, well,those pigments are therefore firmly related to mural paintingand most likely to Leonardo.
时间： 5:05
zh-cn:要知道，我们的研究是为了人类有史以来最崇高最伟大的艺术成就。一个重要是事实就是，这幅作品也是达芬奇目前为止接受的最重要的委托，正是因为这幅作品，他才被认为是那个时代最有影响力的艺术家。
en:Well, we are searching for the highest and highly praisedwork of art ever achieved by mankind.As a matter of fact, this is by far the most importantcommission that Leonardo has ever had,and for doing this great masterpiece, he was namedthe number one artist influence at the time.
时间： 5:28
zh-cn:我非常荣幸在过去的37年里可以为这些杰作而工作，您可以看到他们就在我身后，不过您知道我的工作到底是什么吗？ 其实，就是对他们进行检验，比如这件稀世珍宝。看这里“椅子上的麦当娜” 当紫外线照在这位女士脸上的时候你会突然看到另一位，不同的女士年长的女士，我应该这么说。有很多亮光漆还在她脸上，很多处的润饰，有些地方过度清洗。所以很容易看出来。
en:I had also had the privilege since the last 37 yearsto work on several masterpieces as you can see behind me,but basically to do what? Well, to assess, for example,the state of conservation. See here the face of theMadonna of the Chair that when just shining a UV light on ityou suddenly see another, different lady,aged lady, I should rather say.There is a lot of varnish still sitting there, several retouches,and some over cleaning. It becomes very visible.
时间： 5:57
zh-cn:不仅如此，科技也已经为我们的历史写下了新的篇章或者说至少更新了我们的历史。比如这幅”女士和独角兽“拉斐尔的作品，你们都看到独角兽了对吧。这只独角兽引发了各种各样的推测与讨论，但是如果给独角兽拍张X光的话，它就变成了一只小狗。然后，毫无疑问，但是，不幸的是对这幅画的进一步科学检验得出的结论是拉斐尔并没有画独角兽也没有画小狗，事实上这是一幅未完成的作品，于是乎所有关于这个奇异的独角兽的一切天马行空的想象 很不幸都不是很可靠。
en:But also, technology has helped to write new pagesof our history, or at least to update pages of our histories.For example, the &quot;Lady with the Unicorn,&quot;another painting by Rafael, well, you see the unicorn.A lot has been said and written about the unicorn, butif you take an X-ray of the unicorn, it becomes a puppy dog.And — (Laughter) — no problem, but, unfortunately,continuing with the scientific examination of this paintingcame out that Rafael did not paint the unicorn,did not paint the puppy dog, actually left the paintingunfinished, so all this writing about the exotic symbolof the unicorn — (Laughter) — unfortunately,is not very reliable. (Laughter)
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:同样的，真实性。稍微思考下如果有朝一日科学可以进入艺术品真伪的鉴定领域。那将是一场文化的革命，即使退一步讲，我认为，也是艺术品市场的革命，让我补充下这个问题，做一下这个实验奥托·玛苏斯的名画&quot;静止的生命&quot;，它保存在碧提宫画廊，刚刚经过红外线扫描，对于艺术史学家来说很幸运，它刚被确认为真迹因为有奥托玛苏斯的签名在上面。检测甚至告诉我们画是何时何地所做。所以说那是一个好结果。有时候，也不尽是好消息，所以，再一次的，科学和真实性是可以携手改变我们鉴赏艺术的方式，不影响我们欣赏艺术的初衷，却使我们至少可以更客观的看待艺术或者说少一些主观臆断就像今天我们做的这些。
en:Well, also, authenticity. Just think for a momentif science really could move in the field of authenticityof works of art. There would be a cultural revolutionto say the least, but also, I would say, a market revolution,let me add. Take this example:Otto Marseus, nice painting, which is &quot;Still Life&quot;at the Pitti Gallery, and just have an infrared camera peering through,and luckily for art historians, it just was confirmedthat there is a signature of Otto Marseus. It even sayswhen it was made and also the location.So that was a good result. Sometimes, it&#39;s not that good,and so, again, authenticity and science could go togetherand change the way, not attributions being made,but at least lay the ground for a more objective,or, I should rather say, less subjective attribution,as it is done today.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:但是我想说这次的发现深深的勾起了我的想象力，我的仰慕之情，是一副非常不可思议的画作隐藏在这层棕褐色外层下，在&quot;贤士来朝&quot; 这幅作品里。这里您可以看到一架人工搭建的红外成像扫描仪刚刚穿过这幅画褐棕色的层颜料进行了细致的扫描试图找到在表层颜料之下还有什么秘密非常好，我们恰好发现了这些在达芬奇创作于意大利的重要作品中这些美妙的脸部肖相，自它诞生之日至今5个世纪，从未展现在世人眼前。看看这些人物肖像他们简直是太了不起了。 你们亲眼见证了达芬奇的技艺你们看到了他作品中的温情，真真切切的体现在这张画的底层深处，再来看看这个很酷发现，我也许应该说一只大象。 （笑声）因为这只大象，还有超过70幅肖像一一浮现，数个世纪都没有人看到。这个发现犹如醍醐灌顶。我们才开始明白并证明了这些我们所看到的褐色外层并不是出自达芬奇之手，从而让我们五个世纪都无人看到这些画作，所以除了感谢科学还是只能感谢科学。
en:But I would say the discovery that really caughtmy imagination, my admiration, is the incredibly vividdrawing under this layer, brown layer,of &quot;The Adoration of the Magi.&quot; Here you seea handmade setting XYZ scanner with an infrared camera put on it,and just peering through this brown layerof this masterpiece to revealwhat could have been underneath.Well, this happens to be the most important paintingwe have in Italy by Leonardo da Vinci, andlook at the wonderful images of faces that nobody has seenfor five centuries. Look at these portraits.They&#39;re magnificent. You see Leonardo at work.You see the geniality of his creation, right directlyon the ground layer of the panel, and seethis cool thing, finding, I should rather say,an elephant. (Laughter) Because of this elephant,over 70 new images came out, never seen for centuries.This was an epiphany. We came to understandand to prove that the brown coating that we see todaywas not done by Leonardo da Vinci, which left usonly the other drawing that for five centurieswe were not able to see, so thanks only to technology.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:好吧，说说平板电脑吧，我们觉得，不应该只有我们研究者有这个荣幸去享受到发掘和探究这些秘密的快乐，怎么才能让更多的人得到这个机会呢？所以我们想到开发一种可以广泛应用的应用程序运行在平板电脑上。让我展示给大家我们可以用它来做什么，大家都可以在博物馆里这样做。像我这样带着平板电脑来到博物馆，可以吧？然后我们只需要用镜头对准我们感兴趣的作品去看，就像这样。没问题吧?然后我只要点一下这里，我们暂停，然后现在让我把它转向你们，所以你们可以看到那一刻或者我应该说，摄像头，已经锁定了油画然后你们刚刚看到的那些神秘的画中画已经被保存在电脑里。所以看着我们可以，就像我说过得，我们可以放大。我们可以拖拽它。没问题吧？让我们开始寻找大象吧。所以我们只需要一只手指。只需要擦掉他们然后我们就看到大象了（掌声）不错吧？不仅如此只要你想，我们可以继续在它上面寻找，比如，举个例子，在楼梯那个例子里，整个图解都会被改变。那里有很多外行人也可以再现出来自旧神庙废墟的新神庙，而且可以看到很多人影出现了。看吧？
en:Well, the tablet. Well, we thought, well, if we all havethis pleasure, this privilege to see all this,to find all these discoveries, what about for everybody else?So we thought of an augmented reality applicationusing a tablet. Let me show you just simulatingwhat we could be doing, any of us could be doing,in a museum environment.So let&#39;s say that we go to a museum with a tablet, okay?And we just aim the camera of the tabletto the painting that we are interested to see, like this.Okay? And I will just click on it, we pause,and now let me turn to you so the moment the image,or, I should say, the camera, has locked in the painting,then the images you just saw up there in the drawingare being loaded. And so, see.We can, as we said, we can zoom in. Then we can scroll.Okay? Let&#39;s go and find the elephant.So all we need is one finger. Just wipe offand we see the elephant. (Applause)(Applause)Okay? And then if we want,we can continue the scroll to find out, for example,on the staircase, the whole iconography is goingto be changed. There are a lot of laymen reconstructingfrom the ruins of an old temple a new temple,and there are a lot of figures showing up. See?
时间：10:32
zh-cn:这不只是满足好奇心，因为它改变的不只是你看到的图像，还改变了图像学，和这幅画的意义并且我们相信这个方式很时髦，简单，所以每个人都能掌握它，当走过博物馆无数的房间时，你可以成为探险故事的主演，而不是被动的去欣赏。（掌声）
en:This is not just a curiosity, because it changesnot just the iconography as you see it, but the iconology,the meaning of the painting,and we believe this is a cool way, easy way,that everybody could have access to, to become morethe protagonist of your own discovery, and not justbe so passive about it, as we are when we walk throughendless rooms of museums.(Applause)
时间：11:02
zh-cn:另一个概念叫做数字化临床图表，听起来非常容易理解就如同我们面对的是真正的病人，很不幸，当我们面对艺术品的时候，还没有人从这种角度出发。但是，我们相信，有信心认为这个理念需要开始落实，第一步，去做真正的保护工作，允许我们这样的人，进行真实的探索和研究所有与这些稀世珍宝有关的一切，包括技巧、原料，以及我们该何时以及处于何种目的去修复，或者，去干涉画作周围的环境。
en:Another concept is the digital clinical chart, which soundsvery obvious if we were to talk about real patients,but when we talk about works of art, unfortunately,it&#39;s never been tapped as an idea.Well, we believe, again, that this should be the beginning,the very first step, to do real conservation,and allowing us to really explore and to understandeverything related to the state of our conservation,the technique, materials, and also if, when, and whywe should restore, or, rather, to intervene onthe environment surrounding the painting.
时间：11:36
zh-cn:其实，我们的观点是去重新发掘文艺复兴的精神，创造一个新的准则为保护文化遗产而衍生出的工程学，实际上已经成为把艺术与科学融合在一起的标志。为此我们肯定需要新一代的工程师我们会到世界各地做这些工作重新发掘艺术作品，这些文化价值对于今天的我们是特别急需的。
en:Well, our vision is to rediscoverthe spirit of the Renaissance, create a new disciplinewhere engineering for cultural heritage is actuallya symbol of blending art and science together.We definitely need a new breed of engineersthat will go out and do this kind of work andrediscover for us these values, these cultural valuesthat we badly need, especially today.
时间：12:00
zh-cn:如果你想把这些做个总结，那么，这就是我们正在奋斗的方向——我们正努力将未来（科技）应用到历史（文化）之中目的是拥有一个更好的未来。只要我们的生活充满好奇与激情每个人都是艺术家，就像达芬奇一样。谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:And if you want to summarize in one just single word,well, this is what we&#39;re trying to do.We&#39;re trying to give a future to our pastin order to have a future.As long as we live a life of curiosity and passion,there is a bit of Leonardo in all of us. Thank you. (Applause)(Applause)
