时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我叫麦肯娜·波普 今年14岁在我十三岁的时候 我成功地说服了世界上最大的玩具公司之一“孩之宝“[Hasbro]改变了他们对其最畅销玩具的营销策略
en:I&#39;m McKenna Pope. I&#39;m 14 years old,and when I was 13, I convincedone of the largest toy companies,toymakers, in the world, Hasbro,to change the way that they marketedone of their most best-selling products.
时间： 0:24
zh-cn:也就是我要讲给大家的故事我有个弟弟叫嘉文这整件事儿发生的时候他才四岁嘉文很喜欢做饭他常常从冰箱里拿出各种食材把他们搅合成...呃 不用说乱七八糟的东西有时候他会假装自己在做通心粉和起司嘉文真的很想当一个厨师于是我就想 对于一个想作大厨的小朋友来说还有什么是比一个简易烤箱更好的礼物呢！不是吗？我是说 我们小时候都曾经有过类似的经历而且我弟弟真的很想要一个
en:So allow me to tell you about it.So I have a brother, Gavin.When this whole shebang happened, he was four.He loved to cook.He was always getting ingredients out of the fridgeand mixing them into these, needless to say,uneatable concoctions,or making invisible macaroni and cheese.He wanted to be a chef really badly.And so what better gift for a kidwho wanted to be a chefthan an Easy-Bake Oven. Right?I mean, we all had those when we were little.And he wanted one so badly.
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:但是紧接着他发现所有”孩之宝“所有简易烤箱的广告和包装都是专门为女孩设计的他们的广告和产品包装盒上只会出现女孩子们烤箱布满了花朵图案而且花朵也会是亮粉和紫色非常女孩子的颜色 不是吗？它好像在传递一个信息只有女孩子才可以喜爱厨艺 男孩子不可以这点让我的小弟弟颇受打击他甚至觉得自己不应该梦想成为厨师因为这是女孩子才想要做的事情女孩子才做饭呢 这不是男孩子的事情或者说 这是 ”孩之宝“公司所传递的信息
en:But then he started to realize something.In the commercials, and on the boxes for the Easy-Bake Ovens,Hasbro marketed them specifically to girls.And the way that they did thiswas they would only feature girlson the boxes or in the commercials,and there would be flowery prints all over the ovensand it would be in bright pink and purple,very gender-specific colors to females, right?So it kind of was sending a messagethat only girls are supposed to cook; boys aren&#39;t.And this discouraged my brother a lot.He thought that he wasn&#39;tsupposed to want to be a chef,because that was something that girls did.Girls cooked; boys didn&#39;t,or so was the message that Hasbro was sending.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:于是我就想天哪 我真希望我可以改变这件事我可以不可以让”孩之宝“知道我的想法这样我就可以告诉他们这样的营销策略是不对的需要改变于是我想到了几个月前我看见的一个网站名字叫做change.orgchange.org是一个网上分享各种请愿的平台在这里你可以发表自己的请愿并且在各种社交网络上分享包括facebook和twitter通过Youtube, Reddit和Tumblr以及各种你能够想到的平台因此我发表了自己的请愿书并且在youtube上加上了一个视频请”孩之宝“考虑改变自己的市场营销策略在广告和包装盒上出现男孩并且最重要的是设计它们时采用一些更为中性的颜色。
en:And this got me thinking,God, I wish there was a way that I could change this,that could I have my voice heard by Hasbroso I could ask them and tell themwhat they were doing wrongand ask them to change it.And that got me thinking about a websitethat I had learned about a few months priorcalled Change.org.Change.org is an online petition-sharing platformwhere you can create a petition and share itacross all of these social media networks,through Facebook, through Twitter,through YouTube, through Reddit, through Tumblr,through whatever you can think of.And so I created a petitionalong with the YouTube videothat I added to the petitionbasically asking Hasbroto change the way that they marketed it,in featuring boys in the commercials, on the boxes,and most of all creating themin less gender-specific colors.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:令我吃惊的是我的请愿书超级快的得到了重视我马上受到了国内新闻媒体和出版业的各种采访 真是棒极了在短短的三周到三周半的时间我的请愿书收到了46,0000的支持签名
en:So this petition started to take off —humongously fast, you have no idea.I was getting interviewed byall these national news outletsand press outlets, and it was amazing.In three weeks, maybe three and a half,I had 46,000 signatures on this petition.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:掌声
en:(Applause)
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:谢谢大家
en:Thank you.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:所以 不用说 这真的很疯狂最后 ”孩之宝“邀请我去了公司总部向我展示了他们的最新简易烤箱产品三种颜色： 白色 银色和蓝色这绝对是我一生中最棒的时刻之一简直就像”查理和巧克力工厂“一样奇妙美好
en:So, needless to say, it was crazy.Eventually, Hasbro themselvesinvited me to their headquartersso they could go and unveiltheir new Easy-Bake Oven product to mein black, silver and blue.It was literally one of the best moments of my life.It was like &quot;Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory.&quot;That thing was amazing.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:但是在那一时刻我并没有注意到我成为了一个活跃分子我可以改变一些事情即使我是个小孩子 或者说 连我这样的小孩子的呼声都会被关注 那么你们的一定也可以我还想让大家知道这件事情并不简单之前对我来说也不简单因为我也经历了重重困难网民甚至真实生活中的人因此对我和我的家庭表示不尊重埋怨这整件事情都是浪费时间我也曾一度非常沮丧事实上 我可以举出几个给大家看因为还有什么比在这里展示他们的愚蠢更棒的回击呢？来 我们看看用户名Liquidsore29 (口疮29）-这个用户名真有趣-他说：”恶心的自由主义妈妈把儿子弄地这么娘娘腔“Liquidsore29真的吗？好吧那我们来看看Whiteboy77AGS说的”总有人关心一些屁事”。这位 Jeffrey Gutierrez说”看在上帝份上闭嘴吧 你只是想要钱和关注度“
en:What I didn&#39;t realize at the time, however,was that I had become an activist,I could change something,that even as a kid, or maybe even especially as a kid,my voice mattered, and your voice matters too.I want to let you know it&#39;s not going to be easy,and it wasn&#39;t easy for me,because I faced a lot of obstacles.People online, and sometimes even in real life,were disrespectful to me and my family,and talked about how the wholething was a waste of time,and it really discouraged me.And actually, I have some examples,because what&#39;s better revengethan displaying their idiocy?So, let&#39;s see.From user name Liquidsore29 —interesting user names we have here—&quot;Disgusting liberal moms making their sons gay.&quot;Liquidsore29, really? Really? Okay.How about from Whiteboy77AGS:&quot;People always need somethingto (female dog) about.&quot;From Jeffrey Gutierrez:&quot;OMG, shut up. You just want money and attention.&quot;
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:诸如此类的评论让我在改变未来而努力的路上非常泄气因为我觉得 大家根本不在乎大家觉得这是浪费时间人们将会不尊重我的家人我很受伤 于是我开始思考试图改变未来的目的是什么？
en:So it was comments like thesethat really discouraged me fromwanting to make change in the futurebecause I thought, people don&#39;t care,people think it&#39;s a waste of time,and people are going to be disrespectful to me and my family.It hurt me, and it made me think,what&#39;s the point of making change in the future?
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:但是我马上意识到因为那些仇恨者永远无法改变大家跟我说一遍，一，二，三：那些仇恨者永远无法改变所以让恨你的人恨去吧知道么 做出你的改变因为我知道你可以我看向这个人群我看见400个人是因为想知道如何改变这个世界而来的我知道你们都可以做到 包括在家收看的各位也可以因为你有足够的能力和信念并且你可以利用所有的社交网络通过 Facebook Twitter YouTube Reddit和Tumblr这些平台以及任何你可以想到的方法和途径你一定可以成功你可以坚持自己的信念把变成一项事业做出你想要的改变今天所有你在讲座中听到灵光一现的火花你可以将你拥有的那个火花变成熊熊火焰
en:But then I started to realize something.Haters gonna hate.Come on, say it with me. One, two, three:Haters gonna hate.So let your haters hate,you know what, and make your change,because I know you can.I look out into this crowd,and I see 400 peoplewho came out because they wanted to knowhow they could make a change,and I know that you can, and allof you watching at home can toobecause you have so much that you can do and that you believe in,and you can trade it across all these social media,through Facebook, through Twitter, through YouTube, through Reddit, through Tumblr,through whatever else you can think of.And you can make that change.You can take what you believe inand turn it into a cause and change it.And that spark that you&#39;ve been hearing about all day today,you can use that spark that you have within youand turn it into a fire.
时间： 5:11
zh-cn:谢谢大家
en:Thank you.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:掌声
en:(Applause)
