时间： 0:12
zh-cn:作为一名创作型歌手，人们经常问我的灵感来源是什么，或者我更喜欢称作，我的音乐血统。我会很快地回答你，那些伴随我长大的爵士和嘻哈风格，那些埃塞俄比亚祖先流传下来的民歌，以及我童年时电台播放的80年代流行乐深深地影响并塑造了我。但是除了音乐题材，还有另外一个问题：我们每天听到的各种声音是如何影响我们创作的音乐的？我相信那些再平常不过的声音是音乐创作最不可思议的灵感源泉之一，那么为了进一步探讨这个观点，我今天要讲三件事：自然，语言和寂静—-或者更确切的讲，是一种不可能的真正寂静。然后我希望通过这次演讲，让大家感受到这个世界，一个因各种音乐形式而生机勃勃的世界，一个每个人都积极参与其中的世界，无论我们有没有意识到。
en:As a singer-songwriter,people often ask me about my influencesor, as I like to call them,my sonic lineages.And I could easily tell youthat I was shaped by the jazzand hip hop that I grew up with,by the Ethiopian heritage of my ancestors,or by the 1980s popon my childhood radio stations.But beyond genre,there is another question:how do the sounds we hear every dayinfluence the music that we make?I believe that everyday soundscapecan be the most unexpectedinspiration for songwriting,and to look at this ideaa little bit more closely,I&#39;m going to talk todayabout three things:nature, language and silence —or rather, the impossibilityof true silence.And through this I hope to give youa sense of a worldalready alive with musical expression,with each of us servingas active participants,whether we know it or not.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:我要先从自然讲起，但在这之前，让我们先听一段歌剧歌手的热身练习，开始了。
en:I&#39;m going to start today with nature,but before we do that,let&#39;s quickly listen to this snippetof an opera singer warming up.Here it is.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:（无伴奏演唱）
en:(Singing)
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:（演唱结束）
en:(Singing ends)
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:是不是很美妙？大家上当了吧！这其实不是一个歌剧歌手热身的练习片断。那是一种鸟的叫声被放慢到一定的节奏，让我们的耳朵都错听成人类的声音。这是由Peter Szöke发行的1987匈牙利专辑中的一个选段“未知的鸟类音乐“，他录制了很多鸟的声音并放慢它们的音高来展现鸟类声音的本质。下面我们听一下正常速度的录音。
en:It&#39;s beautiful, isn&#39;t it?Gotcha!That is actually not the soundof an opera singer warming up.That is the sound of a birdslowed down to a pacethat the human ear mistakenlyrecognizes as its own.It was released as part of Peter Szöke&#39;s1987 Hungarian recording&quot;The Unknown Music of Birds,&quot;where he records many birdsand slows down their pitchesto reveal what&#39;s underneath.Let&#39;s listen to the full-speed recording.
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:（鸟的叫声）
en:(Bird singing)
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:现在，让我们将两段放在一起听，你可以在脑中比较一下。
en:Now, let&#39;s hear the two of them togetherso your brain can juxtapose them.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:（鸟的慢速叫声然后是正常速度）
en:(Bird singing at slow then full speed)
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:（声音结束）
en:(Singing ends)
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:这多么不可思议。也许，歌剧唱法的技巧就是受到鸟叫的启发。作为人类的我们本能地将鸟视作我们的声乐老师。
en:It&#39;s incredible.Perhaps the techniques of opera singingwere inspired by birdsong.As humans, we intuitively understand birdsto be our musical teachers.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:在埃塞俄比亚，鸟类被认为是音乐本源的一个组成部分。故事是这样的：1500年以前，一个年轻人出生在阿克苏姆帝国，一个古代的世界贸易中心。他叫雅尔德。雅尔德的父亲在他七岁时去世了，然后他的母亲将他送去舅舅家生活，舅舅是一位埃塞俄比亚东正教的牧师，这是世界上最古老的教派之一。当时，这个教派拥有大量的奖学金和学识，雅尔德于是就不断地努力学习，有一天他正在一棵树下学习，三只鸟飞到他的身边。然后这三只鸟，逐个地成为了他的音乐教师。它们教给了他音乐—-实际上是音阶。于是雅尔德最终成为了圣人雅尔德，他用这些音阶创作了五章圣歌和赞美诗，用来祭拜和庆祝。而且他用这些音阶创作并创造了一个土著音乐符号体系。这些音阶后来发展为kiñit，一种独特的五声音阶，有五个音符的模态系统，一直在埃塞俄比亚活跃至今并仍在不断发展。
en:In Ethiopia, birdsare considered an integral partof the origin of music itself.The story goes like this:1,500 years ago, a young manwas born in the Empire of Aksum,a major trading centerof the ancient world.His name was Yared.When Yared was seven years oldhis father died,and his mother sent him to go livewith an uncle, who was a priestof the Ethiopian Orthodox tradition,one of the oldest churches in the world.Now, this tradition has an enormous amountof scholarship and learning,and Yared had to study and studyand study and study,and one day he was studying under a tree,when three birds came to him.One by one, these birdsbecame his teachers.They taught him music — scales, in fact.And Yared, eventuallyrecognized as Saint Yared,used these scales to composefive volumes of chants and hymnsfor worship and celebration.And he used these scalesto compose and to createan indigenous musical notation system.And these scales evolvedinto what is known as kiñit,the unique, pentatonic, five-note,modal system that is very much aliveand thriving and still evolvingin Ethiopia today.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:现在，我喜欢这个故事因为在很多层面它很真实。首先，圣人雅尔德是一位真实存在的历史人物，其次，大自然当然可以成为我们的音乐老师。而且我们有很多例子来说明这一点：刚果俾格米人根据身边大森林中各种鸟的音高来调整自己的乐器。音乐家兼自然声景学专家伯尼·克劳斯描述了在一个健康的环境中，动物和昆虫是如何组成低、中、高不同频高的乐队的，这种表现形式简直跟交响乐一模一样。然后无数的音乐作品受到了鸟和森林声音的启发。是的，大自然的确可以成为我们的文化老师。
en:Now, I love this story becauseit&#39;s true at multiple levels.Saint Yared was a real, historical figure,and the natural worldcan be our musical teacher.And we have so many examples of this:the Pygmies of the Congotune their instrumentsto the pitches of the birdsin the forest around them.Musician and natural soundscapeexpert Bernie Krause describeshow a healthy environmenthas animals and insectstaking up low, mediumand high-frequency bands,in exactly the same wayas a symphony does.And countless works of musicwere inspired by bird and forest song.Yes, the natural worldcan be our cultural teacher.
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:那让我们现在来到人类独特的语言世界。每一种语言都有不同程度的音高，哪怕是中文普通话，旋律拐点的一个转变就会赋予一个相同的音节，完全不同的语义，还是说像英语这样的语言，一个句子结尾的声调上扬，（声调上扬）暗示这是个问句？
en:So let&#39;s go now to the uniquelyhuman world of language.Every language communicateswith pitch to varying degrees,whether it&#39;s Mandarin Chinese,where a shift in melodic inflectiongives the same phonetic syllablean entirely different meaning,to a language like English,where a raised pitchat the end of a sentence ...(Going up in pitch) implies a question?
时间： 5:20
zh-cn:（观众笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:22
zh-cn:作为一个埃塞俄比亚美裔女性，我在阿姆哈拉语的语言环境中长大。这是我的母语，我父母说的语言，这是埃塞俄比亚的主要语言之一。我有几百万个理由爱上这个语言：它有诗意般的深度，它有很多双关语，它有宝贵的幽默气质，它的谚语生动阐述了生活中的智慧和愚昧。然而还有这种旋律性，一种语言自有的音乐性。我发现这种特性最能够从强调语言中提取而来。强调语言的目的是突出或强调或表达惊讶。比如说，”indey“这个词，如果现场有埃萨俄比亚的观众的话，他们很可能会自己笑出声来，因为这个词的意思是”不！“或者是”他怎么会？“，”不，他不会这样做的“。具体语义还要看语境。但当我还是个孩子的时候，这是我最喜欢的一个词，我觉得是因为它有一个音高。它有一种旋律在里面。你几乎都可以看到这个词从你口蹦出来的形态。&quot;Indey&quot; — 先是低下去，然后又上扬。然后作为一个音乐家兼作曲家，当我听到这个词时，我脑海中就浮现出这样一段旋律。
en:As an Ethiopian-American woman,I grew up around the languageof Amharic, Amhariña.It was my first language,the language of my parents,one of the main languages of Ethiopia.And there are a million reasonsto fall in love with this language:its depth of poetics,its double entendres,its wax and gold, its humor,its proverbs that illuminatethe wisdom and follies of life.But there&#39;s also this melodicism,a musicality built right in.And I find this distilled most clearlyin what I like to callemphatic language —language that&#39;s meantto highlight or underlineor that springs from surprise.Take, for example, the word: &quot;indey.&quot;Now, if there are Ethiopiansin the audience,they&#39;re probably chuckling to themselves,because the word meanssomething like &quot;No!&quot;or &quot;How could he?&quot; or &quot;No, he didn&#39;t.&quot;It kind of depends on the situation.But when I was a kid,this was my very favorite word,and I think it&#39;s because it has a pitch.It has a melody.You can almost see the shapeas it springs from someone&#39;s mouth.&quot;Indey&quot; — it dips, and then raises again.And as a musician and composer,when I hear that word,something like thisis floating through my mind.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:（音乐伴奏，演讲者演唱 &quot;Indey&quot;）
en:(Music and singing &quot;Indey&quot;)
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:（音乐结束）
en:(Music ends)
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:或者另一个例子，用来表达”这样可以“或”这是正确的“的词组—-&quot;Lickih nehu ... Lickih nehu.&quot;表达的是确定，同意的意思。&quot;Lickih nehu.&quot;当我听到这个词组时，这样一段旋律就不断在脑海中重复。
en:Or take, for example, the phrasefor &quot;It is right&quot; or &quot;It is correct&quot; —&quot;Lickih nehu ... Lickih nehu.&quot;It&#39;s an affirmation, an agreement.&quot;Lickih nehu.&quot;When I hear that phrase,something like this starts rollingthrough my mind.
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:（音乐伴奏，演讲者演唱 &quot;Lickih nehu&quot;）
en:(Music and singing &quot;Lickih nehu&quot;)
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:（音乐结束）
en:(Music ends)
时间： 7:13
zh-cn:而且在这两个例子中，我做的仅仅是利用这个旋律和这些词的措辞，把它们转变成音乐元素，然后写成短小的曲子。而且我喜欢写低音，因此以上这两首都以低音结束。
en:And in both of those cases,what I did was I took the melodyand the phrasingof those words and phrasesand I turned them into musical partsto use in these short compositions.And I like to write bass lines,so they both ended upkind of as bass lines.
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:接下来的，是基于贾森·莫兰及其他音乐和语言研究者的研究的。但这同时也是我孩童时代就回荡在脑中的，我的父母在对彼此和对我们讲话时表现出来的音乐性。就是从这些，从阿姆哈拉语中我学到了音乐的表现形式存在于我们说的每一个词，每一句话中，我们听到的每一个词，每一句话中。也许你就可以从我现在说的话中听到。
en:Now, this is based on the workof Jason Moran and otherswho work intimatelywith music and language,but it&#39;s also something I&#39;ve hadin my head since I was a kid,how musical my parents soundedwhen they were speakingto each other and to us.It was from themand from Amhariña that I learnedthat we are awash in musical expressionwith every word,every sentence that we speak,every word, every sentencethat we receive.Perhaps you can hear itin the words I&#39;m speaking even now.
时间： 7:59
zh-cn:最后，让我们来到20世纪50年代的美国，20世纪前卫作品中最具开创性的作品：约翰·凯奇的 &quot;4:33,&quot;任何乐器或乐器组合都可以演奏。音乐家们被邀请到舞台上，带着一块秒表，他们打开乐谱，这个曲子其实已经被现代艺术博物馆购买了—-没错，就是这首曲子。而且这首曲子竟然没有一个音符，在整个四分三十三秒的时间内，乐手们没有演奏一个音符。然后，伴随着或激怒或狂喜的心情，凯奇告诉我们就算是没有手指拨动琴弦，没有手指敲击钢琴键，音乐仍然存在，音乐仍然存在，我们还能够听到音乐。那么音乐在哪呢？也许就是后面观众打了一个喷嚏。
en:Finally, we go to the 1950s United Statesand the most seminal workof 20th century avant-garde composition:John Cage&#39;s &quot;4:33,&quot;written for any instrumentor combination of instruments.The musician or musicians are invitedto walk onto the stagewith a stopwatch and open the score,which was actually purchasedby the Museum of Modern Art —the score, that is.And this score has nota single note writtenand there is not a single note playedfor four minutes and 33 seconds.And, at once enraging and enrapturing,Cage shows us that evenwhen there are no stringsbeing plucked by fingersor hands hammering piano keys,still there is music,still there is music,still there is music.And what is this music?It was that sneeze in the back.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:（观众笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:音乐就是从观众席传来的那些不能再平常的声音：他们的咳嗦声，叹息声，翻书的沙沙声，以及他们的低语声，打喷嚏的声音，房间里，地板的木头和墙壁随着冷热变化发生延伸和收缩时发出的吱吱声和低吟声，还有水管道发出的叮当声。尽管这个理论具有争议性，而且现在仍然是，凯奇的观点至少说明了根本不存在真正寂静这一说。即使在最安静的环境中，我们仍然可以听到或感到我们自己的心跳的声音。世界充满了音乐。我们也早已沉浸其中。
en:It is the everyday soundscapethat arises from the audience themselves:their coughs, their sighs, their rustles,their whispers, their sneezes,the room, the woodof the floors and the wallsexpanding and contracting,creaking and groaningwith the heat and the cold,the pipes clanking and contributing.And controversial though it was,and even controversial though it remains,Cage&#39;s point is that there is nosuch thing as true silence.Even in the most silent environments,we still hear and feel the soundof our own heartbeats.The world is alivewith musical expression.We are already immersed.
时间： 9:41
zh-cn:几个月之前，我自己有时候也会与约翰凯奇有重叠的感觉。一次我站在炉子前做小扁豆，那是晚上，到了该搅拌的时间了，我就把锅盖掀起来，然后放到了我旁边的橱柜上，接着这个锅盖开始滚来滚去，发出这样的声音。
en:Now, I had my own moment of,let&#39;s say, remixing John Cagea couple of months agowhen I was standingin front of the stove cooking lentils.And it was late one nightand it was time to stir,so I lifted the lid off the cooking pot,and I placed it ontothe kitchen counter next to me,and it started to roll back and forthmaking this sound.
时间：10:03
zh-cn:（金属锅盖发出叮当声）
en:(Sound of metal lidclanking against a counter)
时间：10:09
zh-cn:（叮当声结束）
en:(Clanking ends)
时间：10:12
zh-cn:这个声音让我打了个冷颤。我当时想，一个炒锅盖翻滚的声音多么奇妙啊！因此，当我吃完那些小扁豆后，我赶快钻进了后院的工作室，然后创作了这么一段。
en:And it stopped me cold.I thought, &quot;What a weird, cool swingthat cooking pan lid has.&quot;So when the lentils were ready and eaten,I hightailed it to my backyard studio,and I made this.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:（音乐响起，包括锅盖的声音和演讲者的演唱）
en:(Music, including the soundof the lid, and singing)
时间：10:49
zh-cn:（音乐结束）
en:(Music ends)
时间：10:51
zh-cn:好，约翰凯奇并没有教音乐家们去模仿各种背景声音并将这些音乐元素转化为音乐。他的意思是说，环境本身就是生产音乐的，是丰富多产的，而且我们已经沉浸其中了。
en:Now, John Cagewasn&#39;t instructing musiciansto mine the soundscapefor sonic textures to turn into music.He was saying that on its own,the environment is musically generative,that it is generous, that it is fertile,that we are already immersed.
时间：11:11
zh-cn:音乐家，音乐研究者，外科医生兼人类听觉专家查尔斯林波是约翰霍普金斯大学的一名教授，他研究的是音乐与大脑。他有一个理论：有这么一种可能，人类的听觉系统其实是为听到音乐而进化发展的，因为如果只是为了听到语言的话，听觉系统就没必要如此复杂。而且如果这是正确的，就意味着我们生来就是听音乐的好手，我们可以在任何地方找到音乐，根本不存在一个所谓音乐沙漠的地带，我们一直就处于一片音乐绿洲，这一切都是不可思议的。我们可以把音乐加到音轨中，但它却已经在播放了。
en:Musician, music researcher, surgeonand human hearing expert Charles Limbis a professor at Johns Hopkins Universityand he studies music and the brain.And he has a theorythat it is possible — it is possible —that the human auditory systemactually evolved to hear music,because it is so much more complexthan it needs to be for language alone.And if that&#39;s true,it means that we&#39;re hard-wired for music,that we can find it anywhere,that there is no such thingas a musical desert,that we are permanentlyhanging out at the oasis,and that is marvelous.We can add to the soundtrack,but it&#39;s already playing.
时间：12:01
zh-cn:这并不意味着我们不用学习研究音乐，研究音乐，追寻你的音乐血统，并享受这种探索的过程。但是有一种音乐血统，我们都属于它。所以下次当你寻找打击乐的灵感时，就去看看你的轮胎，听听轮胎压过高速公路上那些凸槽时发出的声音，或者去看看炉子右上角的火眼，听听它在准备点燃时发出的奇怪的喀哒声。当你寻找旋律灵感时，就去听听清晨或傍晚的鸟类唱歌，或去听听强调语言的自然轻快的语调。我们是音乐的听众，同时也是创作者，我们从身边的这些平常细节中获得音乐灵感。我们不断地索取，创作，我们知道一遇到自然，语言或背景声音时，就有无限的灵感。当然，如果我们在用心倾听的话。
en:And it doesn&#39;t mean don&#39;t study music.Study music, trace your sonic lineagesand enjoy that exploration.But there is a kind of sonic lineageto which we all belong.So the next time you are seekingpercussion inspiration,look no further than your tires,as they roll over the unusual groovesof the freeway,or the top-right burner of your stoveand that strange way that it clicksas it is preparing to light.When seeking melodic inspiration,look no further than dawnand dusk avian orchestrasor to the natural liltof emphatic language.We are the audienceand we are the composersand we take from these pieceswe are given.We make, we make, we make, we make,knowing that when it comes to natureor language or soundscape,there is no end to the inspiration —if we are listening.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:谢谢大家！
en:Thank you.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:（观众鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
