时间： 0:12
zh-cn:五年前，我曾有过一个有如漫游爱丽丝仙境的经历。宾夕法尼亚州立大学让我这个教沟通学的老师给工程系的学生上沟通学课。我被吓到了。（笑声）我真的被吓坏了。这些学生发达的大脑，还有他们所读的巨著，及他们使用的又长又生僻的词语通通都吓到我了。不过随着对话的展开，我的经历就如爱丽丝一样，顺着那个兔子洞下去，看到了那扇通往一个全新世界的大门。这就是我和那些学生们对话时的感受。我对他们的想法感到惊奇，而且我希望其他人也能体验这种在仙境中的感觉。我相信打开那扇门的关键就是要有很好的交流与沟通。
en:Five years ago, I experienced a bitof what it must have been like to be Alice in Wonderland.Penn State asked me, a communications teacher,to teach a communications class for engineering students.And I was scared. (Laughter)Really scared. Scared of these students with their big brainsand their big books and their big, unfamiliar words.But as these conversations unfolded,I experienced what Alice must have when she went downthat rabbit hole and saw that door to a whole new world.That&#39;s just how I felt as I had those conversationswith the students. I was amazed at the ideasthat they had, and I wanted others to experience this wonderland as well.And I believe the key to opening that dooris great communication.
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:为了改变世界，我们迫切需要从我们的科学家和工程师那里得到良好的沟通。我们的科学家和工程师们解决的都是我们所面临的最大的难题，从能源到环境再到卫生保健，等等。如果我们不明白也不理解的话，他们的工作对我们就没有什么意义了，并且我相信我们作为非科学家们有责任与他们进行互动交流。可是如果我们的科学家和工程师们不把我们领进门去看看他们的仙境的话，我们之间也就不可能有很好的交流。所以科学家和工程师们，请跟我们说说高科技是什么吧。
en:We desperately need great communication from ourscientists and engineers in order to change the world.Our scientists and engineers are the onesthat are tackling our grandest challenges, from energyto environment to health care, among others,and if we don&#39;t know about it and understand it,then the work isn&#39;t done, and I believe it&#39;s our responsibilityas non-scientists to have these interactions.But these great conversations can&#39;t occur if our scientistsand engineers don&#39;t invite us in to see their wonderland.So scientists and engineers, please, talk nerdy to us.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:我想来分享几个有用的方法，告诉你们如何才能保证让我们也觉得你们的科学&quot;性感&quot;迷人、你们的工程学魅力四射。第一个要回答我们的问题： 高科技又怎样？告诉我们，为什么你们的科学与我们有关。别光告诉我你们研究骨小梁，要告诉我你们研究骨小梁是因为这种骨骼的网状组织对认识和治疗骨质疏松症很重要。
en:I want to share a few keys on how you can do thatto make sure that we can see that your science is sexyand that your engineering is engaging.First question to answer for us: so what?Tell us why your science is relevant to us.Don&#39;t just tell me that you study trabeculae,but tell me that you study trabeculae, which is the mesh-like structure of our bonesbecause it&#39;s important to understanding and treating osteoporosis.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:另外当你们描述科学原理时，要注意术语的使用。术语是我们理解你们想法的一个障碍。当然了，你们可以说“空间性与瞬时性”，可是为什么不说&quot;空间与时间&quot;呢？这对我们来说容易理解多了。让你们的想法简单易懂并不等于简化它，相反，正如爱因斯坦所说，让一切尽可能的简单，而不是简化。你不必非得改变你的观点才能清楚地传达出你的科学理论。可以考虑用一些例子、故事、还有类比。这些都是使你们的谈论内容吸引我们、让我们兴奋的方法。还有在用幻灯片演示你们的研究成果时，不要使用点句式。你想过为什么点句式符号叫&quot;子弹&quot;点儿吗？（笑声）子弹是干什么的？子弹能杀人，也能灭了你的演示报告。像这样的幻灯片不仅仅乏味无聊，而且太过依赖我们大脑的语言区，使我们不知所措。而这张由Genevieve Brown制作的示例幻灯片效果就好多了。它向我们说明骨小梁的特殊结构超级强大，甚至连埃菲尔铁塔的独特设计都受到了它的启发。这里的窍门就是使用简单、易读的句子，让观众即使有点儿不明白也能够掌握要点，然后接下来提供一些能够刺激我们感官的图像，并且能让我们对所描述的内容有更深层次的理解。
en:And when you&#39;re describing your science, beware of jargon.Jargon is a barrier to our understanding of your ideas.Sure, you can say &quot;spatial and temporal,&quot; but why not just say&quot;space and time,&quot; which is so much more accessible to us?And making your ideas accessible is not the same as dumbing it down.Instead, as Einstein said, make everythingas simple as possible, but no simpler.You can clearly communicate your sciencewithout compromising the ideas.A few things to consider are having examples, storiesand analogies. Those are ways to engageand excite us about your content.And when presenting your work, drop the bullet points.Have you ever wondered why they&#39;re called bullet points? (Laughter)What do bullets do? Bullets kill,and they will kill your presentation.A slide like this is not only boring, but it relies too muchon the language area of our brain, and causes us to become overwhelmed.Instead, this example slide by Genevieve Brown ismuch more effective. It&#39;s showing that the special structureof trabeculae are so strong that they actually inspiredthe unique design of the Eiffel Tower.And the trick here is to use a single, readable sentencethat the audience can key into if they get a bit lost,and then provide visuals which appeal to our other sensesand create a deeper sense of understandingof what&#39;s being described.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:以上这些就是我觉得能够帮助我们大家打开那扇大门的钥匙，感受科学与工程学仙境的好方法。那么因为与我共事过的工程师们教会我接触我内心存在的学术狂人，我想用一个方程式来总结一下我的观点。（笑声）用你们研究的科学，减去你们的点句式和术语，除以相关内容，就是要分享和观众有关的内容，再乘以你对自己正在从事的这份神奇工作的激情，它就会等于：具备充分理解的、效果惊人的互动交流。因此，科学家和工程师们，当你们解决了这个方程式以后，就想尽一切办法，跟我说说高科技吧。（笑声）谢谢。（掌声）
en:So I think these are just a few keys that can helpthe rest of us to open that door and see the wonderlandthat is science and engineering.And because the engineers that I&#39;ve worked with havetaught me to become really in touch with my inner nerd,I want to summarize with an equation. (Laughter)Take your science, subtract your bullet pointsand your jargon, divide by relevance,meaning share what&#39;s relevant to the audience,and multiply it by the passion that you have forthis incredible work that you&#39;re doing,and that is going to equal incredible interactionsthat are full of understanding.And so, scientists and engineers, when you&#39;ve solvedthis equation, by all means, talk nerdy to me. (Laughter)Thank you. (Applause)
