时间： 0:11
zh-cn:你是一个高级军官，现服役于阿富汗。你要对上百个男兵女兵的生命负责。你的基地遭到袭击。散落的炮弹在你的身边爆炸。在尘埃和烟雾中，你挣扎着想看清，去尽最大努力帮助伤者，并爬到附近的掩体。
en:You are a high-rankingmilitary service memberdeployed to Afghanistan.You are responsible for the livesof hundreds of men and women,and your base is under attack.Incoming mortar roundsare exploding all around you.Struggling to seethrough the dust and the smoke,you do your best to assist the woundedand then crawl to a nearby bunker.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:时而有意识，时而为爆炸所迷茫，你躺下，尝试思考刚刚发什么了。当你重新获得你的视觉的时候，你看到了一个流血的脸庞，盯着你。这个画面让人恐惧，但是你很快明白，这不是真的。
en:Conscious but dazed by the blasts,you lay on your side and attemptto process what has just happened.As you regain your vision,you see a bloody facestaring back at you.The image is terrifying,but you quickly come to understandit&#39;s not real.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:这个画面在白天和夜里多次出现，并持续侵扰着你，你决定闭口不谈，害怕会失去工作，或被当成弱者。你给这个画面取了一个名字，掩体下血腥的脸，简称“掩体血脸”。你把“掩体血脸”封锁在你的脑海里，不为人知地侵扰着你，整整七年。
en:This vision continues to visit youmultiple times a day and in your sleep.You choose not to tell anyonefor fear of losing your jobor being seen as weak.You give the vision a name,Bloody Face in Bunker,and call it BFIB for short.You keep BFIB locked away in your mind,secretly haunting you,for the next seven years.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:现在闭上你的眼睛，你能看到“掩体血脸”吗？如果你可以，你就能够看到战争无形创伤的样子，称作“创伤后应激障碍”或者创伤性脑损伤。
en:Now close your eyes.Can you see BFIB?If you can, you&#39;re beginningto see the faceof the invisible wounds of war,commonly knownas post-traumatic stress disorderand traumatic brain injury.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:虽然我没有得过创伤后应激障碍，但是我对它并不陌生。
en:While I can&#39;t say I havepost-traumatic stress disorder,I&#39;ve never been a stranger to it.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:当我还是个小女孩的时候，我会在每个夏天拜访祖父母，我的祖父，他告诉我了战争的心理影响。当我祖父在朝鲜战争服役海军的时候，一颗子弹穿过他的脖子，让他无法叫出声。他看见医护兵从他身边走过，以为他已经无药可治，把他留下等待死亡。
en:When I was a little girl, I would visitmy grandparents every summer.It was my grandfatherwho introduced me to the effectsof combat on the psyche.While my grandfather was servingas a Marine in the Korean War,a bullet pierced his neckand rendered him unable to cry out.He watched as a corpsman passed him over,declaring him a goner,and then leaving him to die.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:几年过后，当身体的伤痊愈，他回到家，他却很少在清醒的时候说过自己的经历，但是晚上，我能够听到他的怒号从走廊尽头的房间里传来。白天我会提醒他，然后进入房间，小心翼翼地，生怕惊吓或激怒他。他就这样，度过了剩下的日子，孤独和紧张的，找不到一个表达自己的方式，那时候我还没有找到能够引导他的方式。
en:Years later, after hisphysical wounds had healedand he&#39;d returned home,he rarely spoke of hisexperiences in waking life.But at night I would hear himshouting obscenitiesfrom his room down the hall.And during the day I would announce myselfas I entered the room,careful not to startle or agitate him.He lived out the remainder of his daysisolated and tight-lipped,never finding a way to express himself,and I didn&#39;t yethave the tools to guide him.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:我也不知道他那种疾病的名字，直到我20岁的时候。攻读艺术治疗的学位，我自然而然地倾向创伤的研究，当我在教室学习创伤后应激障碍时，简称PTSD,帮助像我祖父一样的军人的目标开始在我心中确立。
en:I wouldn&#39;t have a namefor my grandfather&#39;s conditionuntil I was in my 20s.Seeking a graduate degree in art therapy,I naturally gravitatedtowards the study of trauma.And while sitting in class learningabout post-traumatic stress disorder,or PTSD for short,my mission to help service memberswho suffered like my grandfatherbegan to take form.
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:创伤后应激障碍有很多名字，在战争历史上：乡愁，神经性循环衰弱，炮弹休克症，目光呆滞等等。在我攻读学位的时候，一场战争爆发，感谢现代装备和军用交通工具，军人爆炸受伤的存活率达到历史新高。但是无形伤疤也达到新高，这使得军医和研究人员尝试真正理解创伤性脑损伤，也就是TBI，和PTSD对脑的影响。
en:We&#39;ve had various namesfor post-traumatic stressthroughout the history of war:homesickness,soldier&#39;s heart,shell shock,thousand-yard stare, for instance.And while I was pursuing my degree,a new war was raging,and thanks to modern body armorand military vehicles,service members were survivingblast injuries they wouldn&#39;t have before.But the invisible woundswere reaching new levels,and this pushed military doctorsand researchersto try and truly understand the effectsthat traumatic brain injury, or TBI,and PTSD have on the brain.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:因为科技的进步和神经影像的发展，我们现在知道脑部的布罗卡氏区，就是大脑语言部分会在个人创伤经历后停止工作。这个生理变化，就是经常被称作的失语症，伴随心理创伤，怕被歧视和误解的那种恐惧感，即使调离了军人岗位，都有可能造成的无形的痛苦。一代一代的退伍军人都选择对他们的经历闭口不谈，一个人受苦。
en:Due to advancesin technology and neuroimaging,we now know there&#39;san actual shutdown in the Broca&#39;s,or the speech-language area of the brain,after an individual experiences trauma.This physiological change,or speechless terror as it&#39;s often called,coupled with mental health stigma,the fear of being judgedor misunderstood,possibly even removedfrom their current duties,has led to the invisible strugglesof our servicemen and women.Generation after generation of veteranshave chosen not to talkabout their experiences,and suffer in solitude.
时间： 4:49
zh-cn:我的第一份工作非常适合我，是在国家最大的军用医疗中心，沃尔特-里德陆军医疗中心，担任一名艺术治疗医师。在一个心理疾病部门工作几年后，我被调到国家优秀勇士中心，NICoE，NICoE在军人TBI看护有领先地位。我相信艺术治疗，但是我需要说服一些军人，强壮的男子气概的军人，和一些女兵，让他们尝试把艺术当作心理治疗。
en:I had my work cut out for mewhen I got my first jobas an art therapist at the nation&#39;slargest military medical center,Walter Reed.After working for a few yearson a locked-in patient psychiatric unit,I eventually transferred to the NationalIntrepid Center of Excellence, NICoE,which leads TBI carefor active duty service members.Now, I believed in art therapy,but I was going to haveto convince service members,big, tough, strong, manly military men,and some women too,to give art-making asa psychotherapeutic intervention a try.
时间： 5:27
zh-cn:结果非常可观。被我们的军人创造了那些生动，具有象征性的作品。每一件作品讲述着一个故事。我们发现艺术治疗的过程绕过了脑部的失语症。艺术创作接触到了被封锁的大脑创伤。军人能够用艺术创作表达他们的经历通过一个无害的方式。他们能够把文字用在创作上，重新连接左半边和右半边大脑。
en:The results have beennothing short of spectacular.Vivid, symbolic artworkis being createdby our servicemen and women,and every work of art tells a story.We&#39;ve observed that the processof art therapy bypassesthe speech-language issue with the brain.Art-making accesses the same sensoryareas of the brain that encode trauma.Service members can use the art-makingto work through their experiencesin a nonthreatening way.They can then apply wordsto their physical creations,reintegrating the leftand the right hemispheres of the brain.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:我们发现各种形式的艺术都可以，绘画，素描，拼贴，但是似乎影响最大的是面具制作。最终，这些无形的伤疤不仅仅有了一个名字，还有了脸。
en:Now, we&#39;ve seen this can workwith all forms of art —drawing, painting, collage —but what seems to have the most impactis mask-making.Finally, these invisible woundsdon&#39;t just have a name,they have a face.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:当军人创造这些面具的时候，真的，他们能够抓住创伤。他们能够打破和开始修复创伤，真令人惊奇。
en:And when service memberscreate these masks,it allows them to come to grips,literally, with their trauma.And it&#39;s amazinghow often that enables themto break through the traumaand start to heal.
时间： 6:41
zh-cn:记得“掩体血脸”吗？那是一位我的病人的真实经历，当他创作面具的时候，他能够摆脱画面的困扰。刚开始，对军人来说，这是一个吓人的过程，但是最后，他开始把“掩体血脸”当成面具，而不是他的内心世界。他离开治疗时，他给我那个面具，并说：“梅丽莎，照顾好他。”最后，我们把“掩体血脸”放在盒子里，当那个军人离开NICoE的时候，他选择留下“掩体血脸”。一年后，他只见到“掩体血脸”两次，而且“掩体血脸”在笑，军人不再感到紧张。现在，当那个军人被创伤记忆所侵扰时，他会继续绘画。每一次他画这些令人不安的画面时，他很少或者不会看到它们。
en:Remember BFIB?That was a real experiencefor one of my patients,and when he created his mask,he was able to let goof that haunting image.Initially, it was a daunting processfor the service member,but eventually he beganto think of BFIB as the mask,not his internal wound,and he would go to leave each session,he would hand me the mask,and say, &quot;Melissa, take care of him.&quot;Eventually, we placed BFIB in a boxto further contain him,and when the service memberwent to leave the NICoE,he chose to leave BFIB behind.A year later, he had only seen BFIB twice,and both times BFIB was smilingand the service memberdidn&#39;t feel anxious.Now, whenever that service memberis haunted by some traumatic memory,he continues to paint.Every time he paintsthese disturbing images,he sees them less or not at all.
时间： 7:38
zh-cn:哲学家告诉我们上千年来，创造的力量，是和摧毁的力量紧紧相关的。现在科学告诉我们造成创伤的大脑部分也是发生修复的部分。艺术治疗展示我们如何将它们连接起来。
en:Philosophers have told usfor thousands of yearsthat the power to createis very closely linkedto the power to destroy.Now science is showing usthat the part of the brainthat registers a traumatic woundcan be the part of the brainwhere healing happens too.And art therapy is showing ushow to make that connection.
时间： 7:59
zh-cn:我们让一个军人去形容面具制作是怎样影响他的治疗的，这是他的回复－
en:We asked one of our service membersto describe how mask-makingimpacted his treatment,and this is what he had to say.
时间： 8:06
zh-cn:（音频）军人：你好像进入了面具中，你进入了绘画中，对于我来说，它释放了积压，所以我能够做下去。然后当我在两天后看着它的时候，我说：“我的天哪，这就是那个画面，就是那个钥匙，就是那个谜团，”然后它就这样离开。我的意思是，治疗就这样结束了，因为他们让我解释一下这些，然后23年来第一次，我能够像普通人一样谈论这些事情。如果我想，我现在就能够告诉你们，因为它的封锁被解除了。太神奇了。它能够把我23年的PTSD和TBI抛之脑后，从来没有过。不好意思。
en:(Video) Service Member:You sort of just zone out into the mask.You zone out into the drawing,and for me, it just released the block,so I was able to do it.And then when I looked at itafter two days, I was like,&quot;Holy crap, here&#39;s the picture,here&#39;s the key, here&#39;s the puzzle,&quot;and then from there it just soared.I mean, from theremy treatment just when out of sight,because they were like,Kurt, explain this, explain this.And for the first time in 23 years,I could actually talk about stuffopenly to, like, anybody.I could talk to you about itright now if I wanted to,because it unlocked it.It&#39;s just amazing.And it allowed me to put 23 years of PTSDand TBI stuff together in one placethat has never happened before.Sorry.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:梅丽莎 沃尔克：过去的五年里，我们制作了一千个面具。很神奇，对吗？
en:Melissa Walker: Over the past five years,we&#39;ve had over 1,000 masks made.It&#39;s pretty amazing, isn&#39;t it?
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:（鼓掌）我希望我能够跟我的祖父分享这个过程，我知道他会很激动，因为我们发现了帮助现在和未来军人治愈和找到内心痛苦的源头的方法，让他们能够自省并自我治愈。
en:(Applause)I wish I could have sharedthis process with my grandfather,but I know that he would be thrilledthat we are finding waysto help today&#39;s and tomorrow&#39;sservice members heal,and finding the resources within themthat they can call uponto heal themselves.
时间： 9:40
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 9:41
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
