时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们每个人脑袋中的这台机器，让我想起Woody Allen的一句名言，就是问你脑袋里最好的东西是什么。答案就是这台机器。它是为改变而构建的。一切均与改变有关。它可以让我们明天做今天无法做到之事，今天做昨天无法做到之事。当然，它刚出生的时候是愚蠢的。
en:This machine, which we all have residing in our skulls,reminds me of an aphorism, of acomment of Woody Allento ask about what is the very best thing to have within your skull.And it&#39;s this machine.And it&#39;s constructed for change. It&#39;s all about change.It confers on us the ability to do things tomorrow that we can&#39;t do today,things today that we couldn&#39;t do yesterday.And of course it&#39;s born stupid.
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:上次你见到婴儿的时候——刚好这是我的孙女Mitra。她很棒吧？（笑声）不管怎样，当她出生的时候，尽管事实上她的大脑已经在子宫内发育了好几个月。但是跟任何一个自然出生的婴儿一样，她的能力非常有限。如果我们测试她的感知能力，我们会发现这些能力是非常原始的。而且没有确切的迹象表明她有真正的思考能力。实际上，几乎没有证据表明一个刚出生的婴儿有任何认知能力。婴儿没有什么反应。没有什么迹象表明大脑里有个人在掌控。（笑声）而且他们只能以一种非常原始的，非常有限的方式来控制他们的动作。
en:The last time you were in the presence of a baby —this happens to be my granddaughter, Mitra.Isn&#39;t she fabulous?(Laughter)But nonetheless when she popped outdespite the fact that her brain had actually been progressingin its development for several months beforeon the basis of her experiences in the womb —nonetheless she had very limited abilities,as does every infantat the time of normal, natural full-term birth.If we were to assay her perceptual abilities, they would be crude.There is no real indication that there is any real thinking going on.In fact there is little evidence that there is anycognitive ability in a very young infant.Infants don&#39;t respond to much.There is not really much of an indication in fact that there is a person on board.(Laughter)And they can only in a very primitive way, and in a very limited waycontrol their movements.
时间： 1:21
zh-cn:几个月后，这个婴儿才能在随意控制下做一些简单的动作比如伸手抓握东西并拿回来，通常送到嘴巴里。还得再过几个月，经过漫长稳定的发展，才能一步步从晃动身体，到翻身，到坐起，到爬行，站立，走路，然后我们才能到达到这个神奇的时刻，可以在世界上自由行动。然而，当我们研究大脑时，我们发现非常显著的进化。到这个年龄时大脑实际上能够储存东西了。它已经可以储存，记录，并且很快的检索出成千上万个物体，行为，以及它们在这个世界上的各种关系的意义。而且这些关系其实能够以成千上万甚至上百万种方式来组建。到这个年龄时，大脑拥有非常精细的知觉能力。并且其认知技巧也在不断发展。大脑基本上已经是一个思考的机器。到这个年龄时，毫无疑问的是，大脑里已经有一个“人”来掌控了。事实上，在这个年龄，大脑在很大程度上控制着自身的发展。在这个年龄，我们可以发现它在控制动作的能力上有显著的进化。
en:It would be several months before this infantcould do something as simple as reach out and graspunder voluntary control an object and retrieve it,usually to the mouth.And it will be some months beforeward,and we see a long steady progressionof the evolution from the first wiggles,to rolling over, and sitting up, and crawling,standing, walking,before we get to that magical pointin which we can motate in the world.And yet, when we look forward in the brainwe see really remarkable advance.By this age the brain can actually store.It has stored, recorded,can fastly retrievethe meanings of thousands,tens of thousands of objects,actions, and their relationships in the world.And those relationships can in fact be constructed in hundreds of thousands,potentially millions of ways.By this age the brain controls very refined perceptual abilities.And it actually has a growing repertoire of cognitive skills.This brain is very much a thinking machine.And by this age there is absolutely no questionthat this brain, it has a person on board.And in fact at this age it is substantially controlling its own self-development.And by this age we see a remarkable evolutionin its capacity to control movement.
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:现在，其控制动作的能力进化到它可以以复杂的方式同步控制一些复杂组合的动作，比如像踢足球，这类复杂的运动所需的复杂组合动作。这个男孩可以用头顶颠球。他来自巴西的圣保罗，当地这么大的男孩有大约百分之40的拥有这个能力。但你若去蒙特雷的社区，找到一个拥有这种能力的男孩是困难的。如果你找到一个，说不定还是从圣保罗来的。（笑声）
en:Now movement has advanced to the pointwhere it can actually control movement simultaneously,in a complex sequence, in complex waysas would be required for examplefor playing a complicated game,like soccer.Now this boy can bounce a soccer ball on his head.And where this boy comes from, Sao Paulo, Brazil,about 40 percent of boys of his age have this ability.You could go out into the community in Monterey,and you&#39;d have difficulty finding a boy that has this ability.And if you did he&#39;d probably be from Sao Paulo.(Laughter)
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:这说明了我们个人的技巧和能力基本是由环境塑造的。这个环境可扩大至我们的当代文化，其为我们的大脑提供挑战。因为我们每个人在个人进化中所做的，是建立一套巨大的特定的受我们个人经历影响的技能与能力。实际上，人类奇妙的差异性就是这样造成的。也就是说，我们每个人都是独一无二的。我们每个人都拥有一套与众不同的技巧和能力，而这些技巧和能力全部都是由大脑这个具有非凡适应性机器的可塑性和适应性发展而来。对于一个成人的大脑，当然我们已经掌握了一套数量巨大的技能和能力，我们或多或少地能够根据记忆自动行动，这也让我们成为行动的，移动的，思考的生物。
en:That&#39;s all another way of sayingthat our individual skills and abilitiesare very much shaped by our environments.That environment extends into our contemporary culture,the thing our brain is challenged with.Because what we&#39;ve done in our personal evolutionsis build up a large repertoire of specific skills and abilitiesthat are specific to our own individual histories.And in fact they result in a wonderfuldifferentiation in humankind,in the way that, in fact, no two of usare quite alike.Every one of us has a different set of acquired skills and abilitiesthat all derive out of the plasticity,the adaptability of this really remarkable adaptive machine.In an adult brain of course we&#39;ve built upa large repertoire of mastered skills and abilitiesthat we can perform more or less automatically from memory,and that define us as acting, moving, thinking creatures.
时间： 3:57
zh-cn:我们作为大学实验室的科学家，书呆子，正研究这方面的问题，我们研究动物的大脑，如老鼠，猴子的，还有这个奇妙的生物的，这个地球上很奇怪的生物形态，我们研究这些大脑是如何学习新技能和能力的。并且我们试图记录在获得新技能或能力的同时，大脑发生了怎样的变化。实际上我们在这些不同物种的所有年龄阶段都做研究。也就是说，从婴儿期，幼儿期，一直到成年期和老年期。举例来说，我们可能研究一只老鼠是如何获得新技能或能力的，这技能可能是用它的爪子掌握一个特定的抓握行动，与此类同的是，我们可能会研究一个孩子研究他们如何获得像掌握阅读的整体技能或其中的次级技能。或者我们可能研究一个更年长的个体其所掌握的一套复杂的能力跟其阅读音乐符号的能力之间的关联，或其执行机械行为的能力如何应用到演奏乐器方面。
en:Now we study this,as the nerdy, laboratory, university-based scientists that we are,by engaging the brainsof animals like rats, or monkeys,or of this particularly curious creature —one of the more bizarre forms of life on earth —to engage them in learning new skills and abilities.And we try to track the changes that occuras the new skill or ability is acquired.In fact we do this in individualsof any age, in these different species —that is to say from infancies,infancy up to adulthood and old age.So we might engage a rat, for example,to acquire a new skill or abilitythat might involve the rat using its pawto master particular manual grasp behaviorsjust like we might examine a childand their ability to acquire the sub-skills,or the general overall skill of accomplishing somethinglike mastering the ability to read.Or you might look in an older individualwho has mastered a complex set of abilitiesthat might relate to reading musical notationor performing the mechanical acts of performancethat apply to musical performance.
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:通过这些研究，我们确定了大脑塑造期的两个重要时期。第一个重要时期是通常所谓的“关键时期”。在这个时期，大脑形成其最初的形态，其基本的运行设置。这个时期大脑会发生巨大的变化，但本质上而言，它并不需要通过学习来启动大脑最初的不同设置。举例来说，在声音方面，只需要周围有声音即可。而大脑其实完全受制于其生长环境的声音。举例来说，我可以在一个充满无意义声音的环境里饲养一只动物。这些声音是我制造出来的。我通过将它置于该环境下，这些声音人为的对这个动物及其幼小的大脑产生重要影响。我所发现的是，这个动物的大脑设置了针对这个声音的初始运行，在其运行能力限制之下，大脑将声音加工成一种有组织有秩序的理想形态。这个声音不必对这个动物有价值。我可以让这个动物生长在一个假设有价值的声音环境里，比如把声音背景设置成模仿一个小孩母语的声音。我可以观察到大脑实际上也会发展出一个专门的处理器。专门针对这一套复杂的序列的声音的。它实际上在多维神经表征项上，夸大了它们表征的差异性。
en:From these studies we defined two great epochsof the plastic history of the brain.The first great epoch is commonly called the &quot;Critical Period.&quot;And that is the period in which the brain is setting upin its initial form its basic processing machinery.This is actually a period of dramatic changein which it doesn&#39;t take learning, per se, to drivethe initial differentiation of the machinery of the brain.All it takes for example in the sound domain,is exposure to sound.And the brain actually is at the mercyof the sound environment in which it is reared.So for example I can rear an animalin an environment in which there is meaningless dumb sound,a repertoire of sound that I make up,that I make, just by exposure, artificially importantto the animal and its young brain.And what I see is that the animal&#39;s brain sets upits initial processing of that soundin a form that&#39;s idealized, within the limits of its processing achievementsto represent it in an organized and orderly way.The sound doesn&#39;t have to be valuable to the animal:I could raise the animal in something that could be hypothetically valuable,like the sounds that simulatethe sounds of a native language of a child.And I see the brain actually develop a processor that is specialized —specialized for that complex array, a repertoire of sounds.It actually exaggerates their separateness of representation,in multi-dimensional neuronal representational terms.
时间： 6:26
zh-cn:或者我可以将这个动物置于一个完全无意义且具有破坏性的声音环境之下。我可以把动物放在一个发出持续噪音的环境里饲养，这样等同于把一个婴儿放在有中等强度声音的吊扇的环境里养育。当这么做的时候，我实际上是让大脑成为一个专门针对这些无意义的声音的主处理器。结果是，我破坏了大脑表征任何有意义的声音的能力。这种情况发生在真实的婴儿身上，在他们的早期阶段。这些可以说明，举例来说，在每一个正常发育的婴儿身上，语言特定处理器的精彩进化。这些也可以解释有相当数量的儿童发展出有问题的运行能力，结果在他们更年长的时候，在语言能力上会有缺陷。
en:Or I can expose the animal to a completely meaningless and destructive sound.I can raise an animal under conditionsthat would be equivalent to raising a babyunder a moderately loud ceiling fan,in the presence of continuous noise.And when I do that I actually specialize the brainto be a master processor for that meaningless sound.And I frustrate its abilityto represent any meaningful sound as a consequence.Such things in the early history of babiesoccur in real babies.And they account for, for examplethe beautiful evolution of a language-specific processorin every normally developing baby.And so they also account fordevelopment of defective processingin a substantial population of childrenwho are more limited, as a consequence,in their language abilities at an older age.
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:在大脑塑造的早期，大脑的改变与学习无关。我不必专注于我听到了什么。输入的信息不一定非得有意义。我不需要在一个行为环境中。而大脑需要如此来设置运行，以便于作出不同的行动，以便于作出有选择的行动，以便于这个特定的动物可以用一种有选择的方式来运行大脑。在下一个生命的重要时期，也就是生命的大部分时间，大脑实际上在学习掌握广泛的技能和能力的同时，使它的运行设置更加完善。在这个阶段，从生命第一年的晚些时候一直到死亡。实际上大脑在这个过程中是处于行为控制的。也就是说，大脑有策略地定义输入大脑信号的重要性。它专注于一个又一个技能，一个接一个的能力，这些都需要特定的注意力控制才行。这个功能在于行为是否完成，或个体在这个行为中是否得到奖励。这功能其实是非常强大的。这个持续终生的大脑塑造能力，改变能力非常强烈的表现出来。这也是我们每个人真正与众不同的基础。我们可以检测一个学习特定技巧的动物的大脑，我们可以在不同的水平上观测或记录这个改变。
en:Now in this early period of plasticitythe brain actually changes outside of a learning context.I don&#39;t have to be paying attention to what I hear.The input doesn&#39;t really have to be meaningful.I don&#39;t have to be in a behavioral context.This is required so the brain sets up it&#39;s processingso that it can act differentially,so that it can act selectively,so that the creature that wears it, that carries it,can begin to operate on it in a selective way.In the next great epoch of life, which applies for most of life,the brain is actually refining its machineryas it masters a wide repertoire of skills and abilities.And in this epoch,which extends from late in the first year of life to death;it&#39;s actually doing this under behavioral control.And that&#39;s another way of sayingthe brain has strategies that definethe significance of the input to the brain.And it&#39;s focusing on skill after skill,or ability after ability,under specific attentional control.It&#39;s a function of whether a goal in a behavior is achievedor whether the individual is rewarded in the behavior.This is actually very powerful.This lifelong capacity for plasticity, for brain change,is powerfully expressed.It is the basis of our real differentiation,one individual from another.You can look down in the brain of an animalthat&#39;s engaged in a specific skill,and you can witness or document this change on a variety of levels.
时间： 8:44
zh-cn:这是一个非常简单的实验。这个实验其实是五年前在马赛与普罗旺斯大学的科学家合作完成的。这是一个非常简单的实验，就是训练一只猴子让它学习操作一个工具，其难度等同于让一个小孩学习使用一只勺子。这个猴子实际上大约尝试了700次之后完成了这个任务。而起初的时候，这只猴子完全不能执行这个任务。它的成功率大约在八分之一。猴子的这些尝试是精心的。每一次次尝试都与其他尝试有重要的不同。但这个猴子渐渐地发展出一个策略。大约经过700次尝试之后，这只猴子可以把它执行地完美无缺。他每次都可以成功地用这个工具取回食物。到这一步的时候，这个任务是以一种完美的模式化方式执行。非常完美的控制，重复与尝试。
en:So here is a very simple experiment.It was actually conducted about five years agoin collaboration with scientists from the University of Provencein Marseilles.It&#39;s a very simple experiment where a monkey has been trainedin a task that involves it manipulating a toolthat&#39;s equivalent in its difficultyto a child learning to manipulate or handle a spoon.The monkey actually mastered the taskin about 700 practice tries.So in the beginning the monkey could not perform this task at all.It had a success rate of about one in eight tries.Those tries were elaborate.Each attempt was substantially different from the other.But the monkey gradually developed a strategy.And 700 or so tries laterthe monkey is performing it flawlessly — never fails.He&#39;s successful in his retrieval of food with this tool every time.At this point the task is being performedin a beautifully stereotyped way:very beautifully regulated and highly repeated, trial to trial.
时间： 9:38
zh-cn:我们可以研究这只猴子的大脑内部。我们可以观察到它的变形。我们可以记录这些改变，并且随着时间变化，可以记录许多的因类似行为变换引起的变化。我们可以看到这个变形，这个脑图映射的是猴子手掌的皮肤。这是一个脑成像图，在大脑的表层上，我们用一个很精巧的实验，在每个区域都重建了大脑的反应，这是对神经元反应所做的非常详细的测绘。我们在这里看到的是，大脑如何表征手掌的重建。我们实际上通过这个实验使脑图变形。就在这个粉红色表示的区域。我们可以看到其中两个指尖的表皮增大。这些表皮是猴子用来控制工具的。如果我们研究猴子大脑皮层反应的选择性，我们可以发现其实这只猴子已经改变了对来自所使用的手指头皮肤输入表征的过滤特征。也就是说，在这个最具组织性的，对应身体皮肤表层的大脑皮层区域，仍然有一个单一的，简单的对手指头的表征。猴子和我们一样都有。然而现在其表征区域呈现为更细腻的质地。这只猴子从这些表面获得更详细的信息。而这些伴随获得技能或能力产生的改变，你可能对此一无所知或无所察觉。
en:We can look down in the brain of the monkey.And we see that it&#39;s distorted.We can track these changes, and have tracked these changesin many such behaviors across time.And here we see the distortionreflected in the map of the skin surfaces of the hand of the monkey.Now this is a map, down in the surface of the brain,in which, in a very elaborate experiment we&#39;ve reconstructed the responses,location by location,in a highly detailed response mapping of the responses of its neurons.We see here a reconstruction of howthe hand is represented in the brain.We&#39;ve actually distorted the map by the exercise.And that is indicated in the pink. We have a couple fingertip surfaces that are larger.These are the surfaces the monkey is using to manipulate the tool.If we look at the selectivity of responsesin the cortex of the monkey,we see that the monkey has actually changed the filter characteristicswhich represents input from the skinof the fingertips that are engaged.In other words there is still a single, simple representation of the fingertipsin this most organized of cortical areasof the surface of the skin of the body.Monkey has like you have.And yet now it&#39;s represented in substantially finer grain.The monkey is getting more detailed information from these surfaces.And that is an unknown — unsuspected, maybe, by you —part of acquiring the skill or ability.
时间：10:52
zh-cn:实际上，在研究猴子学习任务的过程中，我们研究了其大脑皮层几个不同的区域。每个区域都根据所学技能或能力作出特定的改变。举例来说，我们研究猴子大脑皮层中表征输入控制姿势信号的区域。我们研究了大脑皮层区域中控制特定动作及动作序列等部位，猴子的行为需要这些部位参与。它们全部被重建了。它们全部特化于当前的任务。当你学一个像这样的简单技巧时，有15或20个皮层区域进行了特定的改变。那代表在你大脑里会发生巨大的改变。它代表着你大脑中上千万或上亿的神经元反应以一种稳定的方式发生了改变。它代表你大脑中上亿或上十亿的突触发生改变。这是以物理方式构建的。构建发生的数量是巨大的。想一下在儿童获得普通行为能力的过程中，其大脑中所发生的变化吧。或者是在习得其母语能力的过程中。这些改变是巨量的。
en:Now actually we&#39;ve looked in several different cortical areasin the monkey learning this task.And each one of them changes in ways that are specificto the skill or ability.So for example we can look to the cortical areathat represents input that&#39;s controlling the posture of the monkey.We look in cortical areas that control specific movements,and the sequences of movementsthat are required in the behavior, and so forth.They are all remodeled. They all become specialized for the task at hand.There are 15 or 20 cortical areas that are changed specificallywhen you learn a simple skill like this.And that represents in your brain, really massive change.It represents the change in a reliable wayof the responses of tens of millions,possibly hundreds of millions of neurons in your brain.It represents changesof hundreds of millions, possibly billionsof synaptic connections in your brain.This is constructed by physical change.And the level of construction that occurs is massive.Think about the changes that occur in the brain of a childthrough the course of acquiring their movement behavior abilities in general.Or acquiring their native language abilities.The changes are massive.
时间：12:00
zh-cn:决定对大脑而言什么是重要事物的选择性表征决定了这一切的发生。因为在大脑生命的绝大部分时间里，其处于行为环境的控制下。也就是你所注意的东西。是对你而言有奖励的东西。是大脑认为对你有积极意义或很重要的东西。这一切取决于大脑皮层运行和前脑特化。而这些造成了你个人的特化。这也是为什么你是一个拥有众多技能和能力的独一无二的特别之人。一个大脑在物理细节上与100年前的人相比发生了很大变化的特别之人。与1000年前的普通个体的大脑相比，这些细节的变化更是巨大的。那么，这改变过程中的一个特点是，信息总是与其他同步发生的，时间上前后紧密相连的输入或信息相关。这是因为大脑构建表征的各个事物，是同时互相联系的并且在极短的连续时间里也是相互关联的。大脑记录下所有的信息并在时间维度上驱动所有改变。那么，在你的大脑中产生的最强大的压倒性的环境，就是你自己。在你个人历史上发生了数十亿件事情，它们都在时间上与你相关，你作为一个接受者，或执行者，或思考者，或行动者。作为一个接收者，你无时无刻不从你的身体表面接收数十亿的感觉的小片段信息，而其结果是让你感觉到身体的具体存在。你自身是通过这数十亿次事件而构建起来的。你是被构建的，在大脑中构建的。这是在大脑中通过物理变化而创建的。这个宏大的被构建的东西导致了个体形态的存在，因为我们每个人都有非常不同的历史,及非常不同的经历，而这将推动我们自我，人格上的巨大差异。
en:What it&#39;s all about is the selective representationsof things that are important to the brain.Because in most of the life of the brainthis is under control of behavioral context.It&#39;s what you pay attention to.It&#39;s what&#39;s rewarding to you.It&#39;s what the brain regards, itself,as positive and important to you.It&#39;s all about cortical processingand forebrain specialization.And that underlies your specialization.That is why you, in your many skills and abilities,are a unique specialist:a specialist that&#39;s vastly differentin your physical brain in detailthan the brain of an individual 100 years ago;enormously different in the detailsfrom the brain of the average individual 1,000 years ago.Now, one of the characteristics of this change processis that information is always relatedto other inputs or information that is occurringin immediate time, in context.And that&#39;s because the brain is constructing representations of thingsthat are correlated in little moments of timeand that relate to one another in little moments of successive time.The brain is recording all informationand driving all changein temporal context.Now overwhelmingly the most powerful contextthat&#39;s occurred in your brain is you.Billions of events have occurred in your historythat are related in time to yourselfas the receiver,or yourself as the actor, yourself as the thinker,yourself as the mover.Billions of times little pieces of sensation have come infrom the surface of your bodythat are always associated with you as the receiver,and that result inthe embodiment of you.You are constructed, your self is constructedfrom these billions of events.It&#39;s constructed. It&#39;s created in your brain.And it&#39;s created in the brain via physical change.This is a marvelously constructed thingthat results in individual formbecause each one of us has vastly different histories,and vastly different experiences,that drive in to us this marvelous differentiation of self,of personhood.
时间：14:06
zh-cn:我们使用这个研究不止为了尝试理解一个正常人是如何发展的，如何发展他们的技能与能力，同时也是为了尝试理解缺陷发生的起点，变化或变异的起点，这些可能会限制孩子或成人的能力。我会谈一下利用这些策略来实际设计以大脑重塑为基础的方式，来矫正孩子的大脑设置，来增加孩子在语言接收，使用，阅读上的能力。并且我会谈一些实验，它们确实应用了脑科学。首先，要理解在衰老过程中它是如何促使我们失去一些功能的。然后，通过一种有目的的方式，我们会使用它来区分一些大脑设置以便恢复因年老造成的功能损失。
en:Now we&#39;ve used this researchto try to understand not just how a normal person develops,and elaborates their skills and abilities,but also try to understandthe origins of impairment,and the origins of differences or variationsthat might limit the capacities of a child, or an adult.I&#39;m going to talk about using these strategiesto actually design brain plasticity-basedapproach to drive corrections in the machinery of a childthat increases the competence of the childas a language receiver and userand, thereafter, as a reader.And I&#39;m going to talk about experiments that involveactually using this brain science,first of all to understand how it contributes to the loss of function as we age.And then, by using it in a targeted approachwe&#39;re going to try to differentiatethe machinery to recover function in old age.
时间：15:00
zh-cn:我要谈的第一个例子是与孩子的学习障碍有关。我们有许多资料展示，在大多数早期有语言缺陷的孩子，他们以后会在学习阅读上出现问题，这其中的根本问题在于，他们的语言处理器是以一种有缺陷的形态创建出来的。它之所以是以有缺陷的形式发展的，是因为在婴儿大脑的早期，大脑机器的运行是嘈杂的。就是这么简单。它是一个噪音信号的问题。好吧？而造成这个问题的原因很多。有许多遗传上的缺陷可能导致大脑运行的噪音更多。但噪音问题的产生也可能基于周围环境的信息，来自于耳朵。
en:So the first example I&#39;m going to talk aboutrelates to children with learning impairments.We now have a large body of literaturethat demonstrates that the fundamentalproblem that occurs in the majority of childrenthat have early language impairments,and that are going to struggle to learn to read,is that their language processoris created in a defective form.And the reason that it rises in a defective formis because early in the baby&#39;s brain&#39;s lifethe machine process is noisy.It&#39;s that simple.It&#39;s a signal-to-noise problem. Okay?And there are a lot of things that contribute to that.There are numerous inherited faultsthat could make the machine process noisier.Now I might say the noise problem could also occuron the basis of information providedin the world from the ears.
时间：15:47
zh-cn:在座各位年长的朋友知道当我们还小的时候，我们认为一个天生腭裂的孩子是天生白痴。我们知道他们的认知发展会很慢。我们知道他们学习发展正常语言能力会有困难。我们知道他们学习阅读会有困难。他们当中绝大多数在智商与学业上不及格。但现在这种看法消失了，不适用了。那些有关遗传的缺点，遗传的状况的观点消失了。我们不再听到这样的观点了。这是如何发生的呢？嗯，在35年前，一个荷兰外科医师发现，如果你能够足够早的解决问题，也就是当大脑还在最初塑造时，那么它就可以在关键时期的起始设置期间，把大脑设置的足够好，那么那些问题就都不会发生。那么我们如何通过手术矫正腭裂呢？基本上，我们打开自中耳排出液体的管子，它们充满了液体。孩子听到的每一个未经矫正的声音都是模糊的，削弱的。在这种情况下，孩子的母语不是英语，不是日语，是杂乱的英语，模糊的日语。就是垃圾。而大脑却针对这些进行特化。对语言垃圾建立表征。然后孩子就无法摆脱它。
en:If any — those of you who are older in the audience knowthat when I was a child we understood that a child born with a cleft palatewas born with what we called mental retardation.We knew that they were going to be slow cognitively;we knew they were going to struggle to learn to develop normal language abilities;and we knew that they were going to struggle to learn to read.Most of them would be intellectual and academic failures.That&#39;s disappeared. That no longer applies.That inherited weakness, that inherited conditionhas evaporated.We don&#39;t hear about that anymore. Where did it go?Well, it was understood by a Dutch surgeon,about 35 years ago,that if you simply fix the problem early enough,when the brain is still in this initial plastic periodso it can set up this machinery adequately,in this initial set up time in the critical period,none of that happens.What are you doing by operating on the cleft palate to correct it?You&#39;re basically opening upthe tubes that drain fluid from the middle ears,which have had them reliably full.Every sound the child hears uncorrected is muffled.It&#39;s degraded.The child&#39;s native language is such a case is not English.It&#39;s not Japanese.It&#39;s muffled English. It&#39;s degraded Japanese.It&#39;s crap.And the brain specializes for it.It creates a representation of language crap.And then the child is stuck with it.
时间：17:09
zh-cn:这些垃圾不只会发生在耳朵里，也会发生在大脑里。大脑本身可以是嘈杂的。正常的嘈杂。但有些遗传的缺陷可以使它更加嘈杂。而在这样的大脑里，这个孩子的母语就会被削弱。就会变成不是英语，而是杂乱的英语。这个大脑机器因有异常的空间常数设置，就会发展出不正常的，不同的策略，导致产生对语音表征的缺陷。我们可以检查孩子的大脑并记录那些时间常数。它们的大小比普通孩子高一个等级，大约平均而言比正常孩子高11倍。空间常数大约是正常孩子的3倍。这样的孩子在这方面会有记忆与认知的缺陷。他们当然会有问题。因为作为语言的接受者，他们会接受并表征语言。而其表征的信息却是垃圾。所以他们将会有贫乏的阅读技巧。因为阅读依赖于将词语的声音转换成这种拼写或视觉表征形态。如果你的大脑不能正确表征语音，那么这种转换就毫无意义。你就会有与此对应不正常的神经问题。
en:Now the crap doesn&#39;t just happen in the ear.It can also happen in the brain.The brain itself can be noisy. It&#39;s commonly noisy.There are many inherited faults that can make it noisier.And the native language for a child with such a brainis degraded.It&#39;s not English. It&#39;s noisy English.And that results in defective representations of sounds of words —not normal — a different strategy,by a machine that has different time constants and different space constants.And you can look in the brain of such a child and record those time constants.They are about an order of magnitude longer,about 11 times longer in duration on average,than in a normal child.Space constants are about three times greater.Such a child will have memory and cognitive deficitsin this domain.Of course they will. Because as a receiver of language,they are receiving it and representing it,and in information it&#39;s representing crap.And they are going to have poor reading skills.Because reading is dependent upon the translation of word soundsinto this orthographic or visualrepresentational form.If you don&#39;t have a brain representation of word soundsthat translation makes no sense.And you are going to have corresponding abnormal neurology.
时间：18:24
zh-cn:我们对这些孩子在语言能力，阅读能力上逐步进行了一次又一次的评测，我们记录了这个不正常的神经问题。关键是我们可以通过训练来摆脱这个问题。你可以把它想象成，你其实可以通过改变来重新完善大脑的运行能力。从细节来改变。平均要花30个小时。今天，我们已经在大约43万个孩子身上成功了。实际上，大约有1万5千个孩子现在正在接受训练。实际上，当你查看其影响时，这是有重大意义的。
en:Then these children increasinglyin evaluation after evaluation,in their operations in language, and their operations in reading —we document that abnormal neurology.The point is is that you can train the brain out of this.A way to think about this is you can actually re-refinethe processing capacity of the machineryby changing it.Changing it in detail. It takes about 30 hours on the average.And we&#39;ve accomplished that in about 430,000 kids today.Actually, probably about 15,000 children are being trained as we speak.And actually when you look at the impacts, the impacts are substantial.
时间：18:58
zh-cn:我们看一下正态分布。我们最感兴趣的是这些在分布左侧的孩子。这大约是从3000个孩子中出来的。你可以发现大多数在分布左侧的孩子正在移向中间或右边。这是一个广泛测量他们语言能力的测试。有点像对语言的IQ测试。如果你训练每个美国小孩，那么对这个分布的影响将是，整个分布向右移，并且分布变窄。这会产生非常重大的作用。
en:So here we&#39;re looking at the normal distribution.What we&#39;re most interested in is these kids on the left side of the distribution.This is from about 3,000 children.You can see that most of the children on the left side of the distributionare moving into the middle or the right.This is in a broad assessment of their language abilities.This is like an IQ test for language.The impact in the distribution, if you trained every childin the United States, would be to shift the whole distribution to the rightand narrow the distribution.This is a substantially large impact.
时间：19:24
zh-cn:想象一下上语言技能班的孩子。想象一下班上较迟钝的孩子。我们有可能把大多数那样的孩子移到中间或右边。除了精确的语言训练，它也会改善记忆与认知，语言流利性与丰富性。而该训练也能为学生提供一项重要的语言依赖技巧——即阅读。在很大程度上，可以说该训练是修复大脑的。在由斯坦福大学，麻省理工学院，旧金山加利福尼亚大学，加利福尼亚大学洛杉矶分校及其他机构进行的不同训练中，我们可以看到在孩子的大脑中产生的变化。孩子们在进行不同的语言行为或不同的阅读行为时，在很大程度上，对绝大多数孩子而言，他们的神经元反应在训练前复杂异常，但经过训练达到正常化。
en:Think of a classroom of children in the language arts.Think of the children on the slow side of the class.We have the potential to move most of those childrento the middle or to the right side.In addition to accurate language trainingit also fixes memory and cognitionspeech fluency and speech production.And an important language dependent skill is enabled by this training —that is to say reading.And to a large extent it fixes the brain.You can look down in the brain of a childin a variety of tasks that scientists have at Stanford,and MIT, and UCSF, and UCLA, and a number of other institutions.And children operating in various language behaviors,or in various reading behaviors,you see for the most extent,for most children, their neuronal responses,complexly abnormal before you start,are normalized by the training.
时间：20:13
zh-cn:那么，我们也可以用同样的方式来解决衰老的问题。在此，大脑机器设置也在恶化，本来是有能力的大脑，随着年龄一路下滑。大脑中的噪音增多。学习和控制的调节装置在恶化。其实我们可以看到在这样的个体的大脑里，其时间常数与空间常数都在改变，举例来说，我们以对语言的表征为例。正如同大脑产生时一片混乱一样，在快结束时大脑也会返回混乱状态。造成记忆，认知，控制身体与灵活性都会下滑。而结果是，我们能够训练这样的个体的大脑，这是其中一小部分人，用同样的强度训练大约30小时。他们是80到90岁的老年人。
en:Now you can also take the same approachto address problems in aging.Where again the machinery is deteriorating nowfrom competent machinery, it&#39;s going south.Noise is increasing in the brain.And learning modulation and control is deteriorating.And you can actually look down on the brain of such an individualand witness a change in the time constants and space constantswith which, for example, the brain is representing language again.Just as the brain came out of chaos at the beginning,it&#39;s going back into chaos in the end.This results in declines in memoryin cognition, and in postural ability and agility.It turns out you can train the brain of such an individual —this is a small population of such individuals —train equally intensively for about 30 hours.These are 80- to 90-year-olds.
时间：20:59
zh-cn:我们发现得到改善的包括短时记忆，延迟一段时间后记住事物的能力，控制注意力的能力，语言能力及视觉，空间能力。这些受训个体的总体神经心理指数大约是比平均低两个标准差。这意味着，如果你处于分布的左侧，我检查你的神经心理能力的话，正常的人已移动到中间或分布的右边。这意味着，大多数或迟或早面临衰老威胁的人，现在已得到保护。
en:And what you see are substantial improvements of their immediate memory,of their ability to remember things after a delay,of their ability to control their attention,their language abilities and visual-spatial abilities.The overall neuropsychological indexof these trained individuals in this populationis about two standard deviations.That means that if you sit at the left side of the distribution,and I&#39;m looking at your neuropyschological abilities,the average person has moved to the middleor the right side of the distribution.It means that most people who are at risk for senility,more or less immediately,are now in a protected position.
时间：21:31
zh-cn:我的观点是要更加完全的在更大的数量上救助年老的平民。因为我认为这是可行的，对在座各位大部分都可行。对孩子也是一样。我的主要兴趣在于如何使用这项科学解决其他疾病。我特别感兴趣于自闭症和脑瘫，这些疾病对于儿童来说是灾难。还有老年问题如帕金森症，还有其他后天缺陷如精神分裂症。
en:My issues are to try to get to rescuingolder citizens more completely and in larger numbers,because I think this can be done in this arena on a vast scale —and the same for kids.My main interest is how to elaborate this science to address other maladies.I&#39;m specifically interested in things like autism,and cerebral palsy, these great childhood catastrophes.And in older age conditions like Parkinsonism,and in other acquired impairments like schizophrenia.
时间：21:58
zh-cn:这个科学中与你相关的是，如何保持你自己高效的学习机器。当然，还有有秩序的生活，而学习是其中持续的，关键的一环。在你们的未来会有大脑体操。准备好吧。它将成为日常生活的一部分，在不太远的未来。正如体育锻炼在当今已成为每一个正常有条理的生命的一部分一样。我们认为该文献和科学对诸位产生重要影响的终极方式是，考虑如何培养自己。因为现在你知道，科学告诉我们你是可以掌控自己的，你是在自己的控制之下，你的幸福，福利，能力，潜力是可以得到持续的改变，持续的改善，你是对自己负责的一方。当然，许多人会忽视这个建议。要他们真正理解时日尚远。（笑声）这就是另外一个问题了，不关我的事。好吧。谢谢各位。（掌声）
en:Your issues as it relates to this science,is how to maintain your own high-functioning learning machine.And of course, a well-ordered lifein which learning is a continuous part of it, is key.But also in your future is brain aerobics.Get ready for it. It&#39;s going to be a part of every lifenot too far in the future,just like physical exerciseis a part of every well organized life in the contemporary period.The other way that we will ultimately come to consider thisliterature and the science that is important to youis in a consideration of how to nurture yourself.Now that you know, now that science is telling usthat you are in charge,that it&#39;s under your control,that your happiness, your well-being,your abilities, your capacities,are capable of continuous modification,continuous improvement,and you&#39;re the responsible agent and party.Of course a lot of people will ignore this advice.It will be a long time before they really understand it.(Laughter)Now that&#39;s another issue and not my fault.Okay. Thank you.(Applause)
