时间： 0:12
zh-cn:好吧，我的开场可能有点让人扫兴四千两百万人在2010年因灾成为无家可归的人。不过，2010年可没有什么太大不了的因为，平均来说，每年因为各种自然灾害而流离失所的人数达到了三千一百五十万之多。通常，人们听到这方面的统计数据的时候，都会想到海地或者是其他国家或者是贫困地区，但事实上类似的事情在美国每一年都在发生着。仅去年一年，就有99起官方证实的灾害被联邦应急管理局(FEMA)记录在案，发生地点从密苏里州的乔普林、阿拉巴马州的塔斯卡卢萨、到最近刚发生在德克萨斯州中部的森林大火。那么，世界上最强大的国家是怎么安排这些无家可归的人呢？他们把灾民塞在简易床上，所有私人物品都被塞进一个塑料垃圾袋，然后扔在床下面，然后大家都挤在一个体育场里，或者体育馆里。
en:So, I&#39;m going to start off with kind of the buzzkill a little bit.Forty-two million peoplewere displaced by natural disasters in 2010.Now, there was nothing particularly special about 2010,because, on average, 31 and a half million peopleare displaced by natural disasters every single year.Now, usually when people hear statistics or stats like that,you start thinking about places like Haiti or other kind ofexotic or maybe even impoverished areas, but it happensright here in the United States every single year.Last year alone, 99 federally declared disasterswere on file with FEMA,from Joplin, Missouri, and Tuscaloosa, Alabama,to the Central Texas wildfires that just happened recently.Now, how does the most powerful country in the worldhandle these displaced people?They cram them onto cots, put all your personal belongingsin a plastic garbage bag, stick it underneath,and put you on the floor of an entire sports arena,or a gymnasium.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:所以临时住房短缺问题很明显，这让我很失望，因为学术界认为在一次大灾难过后，一般需要经过18个月的时间，才会开始重建的进程，但是大部分人都没意识到一般要经过45到60天甚至更多时间那些声名狼藉的的联邦应急管理局的拖车才会开始出现。在那之前，人们只能靠自己。
en:So obviously there&#39;s a massive housing gap,and this really upset me, because academia tells youafter a major disaster, there&#39;s typically aboutan 18-month time frame to — we kinda recover,start the recovery process,but what most people don&#39;t realize is that on averageit takes 45 to 60 days or morefor the infamous FEMA trailers to even begin to show up.Before that time, people are left to their own devices.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:所以我开始很专注于找到一个方法来填补这个空缺。这项创造性的事业使我十分痴迷。几个小时后，我就把我所有的手头兼职工作抛到一边开始全身心投入到这项工作中。
en:So I became obsessed with trying to figure out a wayto actually fill this gap.This actually became my creative obsession.I put aside all my freelance work after hours and startedjust focusing particularly on this problem.
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:画草图是第一项工作。卡特里娜飓风过后两天，我开始一遍遍的画草图尽己所能想方设法的来找到一个可行的方案，当我的构思最终成形后，我开始用电脑上进行设计，当然这终究还是图纸，所以我不能就此停下。之后我开始做实验，做一些模型，展示给这个领域的专家们，倾听他们的反馈，并进行改进，我一遍一遍的改进这个过程持续了五年多。
en:So I started sketching.Two days after Katrina, I started sketching and sketchingand trying to brainstorm up ideas or solutions for this,and as things started to congeal or ideas started to form,I started sketching digitally on the computer,but it was an obsession, so I couldn&#39;t just stop there.I started experimenting, making models,talking to experts in the field, taking their feedback,and refining, and I kept on refining and refiningfor nights and weekends for over five years.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:最终，这个使我着迷的计划有了一个结果那就是在我家后院的全尺寸原型产品（笑声）它们花光了我所有的积蓄包括购买工具到付专利使用费以及其他各种各样的费用，不过最后我还是成功做出了这个模块化房屋系统它可以应付各种情况和灾难。它可以被安放在任何环境中，从沥青停车场到牧场或农田，因为它不需要任何特殊的基础建设或是特殊的工具。
en:Now, my obsession ended up driving me to createfull-size prototypes in my own backyard — (Laughter) —and actually spending my own personal savings oneverything from tooling to patentsand a variety of other costs,but in the end I ended up with this modular housing systemthat can react to any situation or disaster.It can be put up in any environment,from an asphalt parking lot to pastures or fields,because it doesn&#39;t require any special setupor specialty tools.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:这套系统的基础和核心是外挂式房屋模块，那是一种独立的避难所模块。它非常轻，轻到你用手就可以轻易的举起来并且来回挪动，这屋子能睡4个人。
en:Now, at the foundation and kind of the coreof this whole system is the Exo Housing Unit,which is just the individual shelter module.And though it&#39;s light, light enough that you can actuallylift it by hand and move it around,and it actually sleeps four people.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:你可以随意摆放它们例如像露营一样，或按照城市街区来规划摆放，或者你可以先把一些售货手推车围成一个圈，然后把这些房屋围到外面形成帐子，这样一个半私密性的公共区域会让住在里面的人们愿意出来走走而不是一直呆在这些屋子里。
en:And you can arrange these things as kind of morefor encampments and more of a city grid type layout,or you can circle the wagons, essentially,and form these circular pods out of them,which give you this semi-private communal areafor people to actually spill out into so they&#39;re not actuallytrapped inside these units.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:所以这项发明从根本上改变了我们对灾难的反应，因为之前那种很多人躺在小床上挤在体育场或体育馆里简易床的场景已经一去不复返了。现在大家都成了新的邻居。
en:Now this fundamentally changesthe way we respond to disasters,because gone are the horrid conditionsinside a sports arena or a gymnasium, where peopleare crammed on these cots inside.Now we have instant neighborhoods outside.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:这个房屋系统被设计的很简洁，基本上很像一个咖啡杯。它们可以摞在一起所以我们可以非常高效的运输和储存它们。事实上，一个半挂卡车可以装15个这样的屋子。这就表明这种房屋比目前世界上其他任何住房系统都能更快的运输和安装。我对这个项目很着迷，所以我并不止步于此，接着我就开始设计床铺，你可以从墙壁上把床滑出来然后耨把桌子和柜子滑进去，这种设计也可以被用为办公室或者储藏室。房屋的门是可以拆换的，所以你可以换一个带窗户的门来调节气温，或者装上连接模块，就可以让你把多个房屋连接起来，这样生活空间就会变大而且可以分成不同区块，因此同一个屋子，可以被当做起居室，卧室或浴室，或是办公室，居住空间和安全储藏室。
en:So the Exo is designed to be simply, basicallylike a coffee cup. They can actually stack togetherso we get extremely efficient transportationand storage out of them.In fact, 15 Exos can fit on a single semi truck by itself.This means the Exo can actually be transported and set upfaster than any other housing option available today.But I&#39;m obsessive, so I couldn&#39;t just stop there,so I actually started modifying the bunks where you couldactually slide out the bunks and slide in desks or shelving,so the same unit can now be usedfor an office or storage location.The doors can actually swap out, so you can actually put ona rigid panel with a window unit in it for climate control,or a connector module that would allow you to actuallyconnect multiple units together, which gives yoularger and kind of compartmentalized living spaces,so now this same kit of parts, this same unitcan actually serve as a living room, bedroom or bathroom,or an office, a living space and secure storage.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:这听起来很不错，但是要怎样才能让这些成为现实？我最初的想法是找到政府部门并且跟他们说，“这个送给你们，拿去吧 。”但是我很快被告诉，“亲，我们的政府根本不会这么做的。”（笑声）好吧，好吧。我或许应当创立一个非盈利的机构来使这个想法能得到政府的支持但之后我却被告知，“亲，我们的政府还指望私营企业来做这样的事情呢。”好吧。我也许应该把这个主意交给那些能共同获利的私营企业可接着我很快收到一些公司的答复他们认为来源于我自己倒腾出来的项目和品牌形象不符他们不愿意让自己的品牌沾上 海地贫民区的痕迹
en:Sounds like a great idea, but how do you make it real?So the first idea I had, initially, was justto go the federal and state governments and go,&quot;Here, take it, for free.&quot;But I was quickly told that, &quot;Boy, our governmentdoesn&#39;t really work like that.&quot; (Laughter)Okay. Okay. So maybe I would start a nonprofitto kind of help consult and get this idea goingalong with the government, but then I was told,&quot;Son, our government looks to private sectorfor things like this.&quot;Okay. So maybe I would take this whole idea and goto private corporations that would have this mutually sharedbenefit to it, but I was quickly told by some corporationsthat my personal passion project was not a brand fitbecause they didn&#39;t want their logos stampedacross the ghettos of Haiti.
时间： 5:22
zh-cn:那时，我就不止是着迷怎么简单了。我愤怒了。（笑声）于是我对自己说，“ 是嘛？等着瞧吧，我自己来做。” （笑声）很快，因为日常工作的缘故我会有几个月不在米兰，有时候会迷惘我要去做些啥啊？而实际上我忙着调整我的睡眠时间呢把多出来的8个小时时差用在联系那些供应商，制造商和潜在客源的电话会议上在这过程中，我们找到了位于弗吉尼亚的这个伟大的小制造商，如果说他的肢体语言是想说明什么的话就是老板—（笑声）— 那他的样子就形象的再现了当制造商和设计师共事的时候，会是一副怎样的场景正如你们现在所看到的这样。（笑声）
en:Now, I wasn&#39;t just obsessed. I was outraged. (Laughter.)So I decided, kind of told myself,&quot;Oh yeah? Watch this. I&#39;ll do it myself.&quot; (Laughter)Now, this quickly, my day job sent me to work out ofour Milan office for a few months, so I was like,what will I do? So I actually scheduled sleep on my calendar,and spent the 8-hour time difference on conference callswith material suppliers, manufacturers and potential customers.And we found through this whole process, we foundthis great little manufacturer in Virginia,and if his body language is any indication,that&#39;s the owner — (Laughter) — of what it&#39;s likefor a manufacturer to work directly with a designer,you&#39;ve got to see what happens here. (Laughter)
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:不过G.S. 工业公司实在是太棒了他们为我们做出了3个手工的模版我们现在有了模版，能容纳四个人还提升了睡觉的安全度和舒适度这比帐篷可好多了他们还为我们把模版装运到了德克萨斯州接着，有趣的情形出现了其他人开始认同我们的所作所为给我们提供或捐赠机库以便工作乔治敦机场官方还愿意帮忙竭尽所能满足我们的任何需要。现在我们有了工作的地方还有了制造的样本
en:But G.S. Industries was fantastic.They actually built three prototypes for us by hand.So now we have prototypes that can show that four peoplecan actually sleep securely and much more comfortablythan a tent could ever provide.And they actually shipped them here to Texas for us.Now, a funny thing started happening.Other people started to believe in what we were doing,and actually offered us hangar space, donated hangarspace to us. And then the Georgetown Airport Authoritywas bent over backwards to help us with anything we needed.So now we had a hangar space to work in,and prototypes to demo with.
时间： 6:42
zh-cn:接下来的一年内，我们又和制造商商议了生产协议申请到了我们的一个专利，接着又申请了第二个和很多人交流，向联邦应急管理局和他们的顾问展示产品样本联邦应急管理局的咨询师给了很高的评价之后又开始答复一些前来咨询的人联合国的这群家伙正是在名单的最上端联系我们的人实在是太多了从矿区营地到移动青年旅舍甚至还有世界杯和奥运会那么，在结束之前，我要说的是所幸我们很快就将不用再像原来一样，在灾难发生后，接到的令人痛心的电话却只能告诉他们我们现在还没有现成的东西帮助你。所幸我们很快就会达成目标因为我们命中注定，而且执着于把它变成实现谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:So in one year, we&#39;ve negotiated manufacturing agreements,been awarded one patent, filed our second patent,talked to multiple people, demoed this to FEMAand its consultants to rave reviews,and then started talking to some other people who requestedinformation, this little group called the United Nations.And on top of that, now we havea whole plethora of other individuals that have come upand started to talk to us from doing it for mining camps,mobile youth hostels, right down to the World Cupand the Olympics.So, in closing, on this whole thing hereis hopefully very soon we will not have torespond to these painful phone calls that we getafter disasters where we don&#39;t really have anythingto sell or give you yet.Hopefully very soon we will be there,because we are destined,obsessed with making it real.Thank you. (Applause)
