时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我们需要共同反思一个问题金钱和市场在社会上应该扮演什么角色？
en:Here&#39;s a question we need to rethink together:What should be the role of moneyand markets in our societies?
时间： 0:22
zh-cn:现在极少东西是金钱买不到的如果你被判刑在加州圣巴巴拉入监你应该知道如果不喜欢标准牢房可以花钱升级没错！你们猜要花多少钱？猜猜看？500美元？监狱可不是丽思卡尔顿酒店82元一晚每晚收费82美元如果你去游乐园不愿为了热门游乐设施大排长龙现在有办法解决许多主题公园，你只要多付钱就可以不用排队这叫快速通道或VIP票
en:Today, there are very few thingsthat money can&#39;t buy.If you&#39;re sentenced to a jail termin Santa Barbara, California,you should knowthat if you don&#39;t like the standard accommodations,you can buy a prison cell upgrade.It&#39;s true. For how much, do you think?What would you guess?Five hundred dollars?It&#39;s not the Ritz-Carlton. It&#39;s a jail!Eighty-two dollars a night.Eighty-two dollars a night.If you go to an amusement parkand don&#39;t want to stand in the long linesfor the popular rides,there is now a solution.In many theme parks, you can pay extrato jump to the head of the line.They call them Fast Track or VIP tickets.
时间： 1:14
zh-cn:这种现象不限于游乐园在华盛顿特区偶尔也要大排长龙才能参加重要的国会听证会可是有些人不喜欢排长队可能是彻夜排队，甚至会淋雨游说者和一些人非常想参加听证会但不想排队，有公司因应而生这叫排队公司你可以找他们只要付合适的价钱公司就雇用游民或需要工作的人这个队需要排多久他们就等多久游说者只要在听证会开始前取代排在最前面的人就可以坐在会场的前排这是付费排队服务
en:And this isn&#39;t only happening in amusement parks.In Washington, D.C., long lines,queues sometimes formfor important Congressional hearings.Now some people don&#39;t like to wait in long queues,maybe overnight, even in the rain.So now, for lobbyists and otherswho are very keen to attend these hearingsbut don&#39;t like to wait, there are companies,line-standing companies,and you can go to them.You can pay them a certain amount of money,they hire homeless people and others who need a jobto stand waiting in the line for as long as it takes,and the lobbyist, just before the hearing begins,can take his or her place at the head of the lineand a seat in the front of the room.Paid line standing.
时间： 2:03
zh-cn:市场机制运用技巧市场思维方式和市场解决方案技巧在更大舞台也看得到例如我们的作战方式你知不知道，在伊拉克和阿富汗私营军事承包商的数量多于美国军队人数并非因为我们公开辩论过是否要外包战争给私人公司但这是既成事实
en:It&#39;s happening, the recourse to market mechanismsand market thinking and market solutions,in bigger arenas.Take the way we fight our wars.Did you know that, in Iraq and Afghanistan,there were more private military contractors on the groundthan there were U.S. military troops?Now this isn&#39;t because we had a public debateabout whether we wanted to outsource warto private companies,but this is what has happened.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:过去三十年我们经历了一场宁静革命几乎未察觉我们已经从市场经济渐渐变成市场社会二者差别在于：市场经济是工具一种有用、有效的工具用于组织生产活动但是市场社会几乎凡事都可以出售市场社会是一种生活方式市场的思维和价值开始主导生活的每个层面：私人关系、家庭生活、健康、教育政治、法律、公民生活
en:Over the past three decades,we have lived through a quiet revolution.We&#39;ve drifted almost without realizing itfrom having a market economyto becoming market societies.The difference is this: A market economy is a tool,a valuable and effective tool,for organizing productive activity,but a market society is a place wherealmost everything is up for sale.It&#39;s a way of life, in which market thinkingand market values begin to dominateevery aspect of life:personal relations, family life, health, education,politics, law, civic life.
时间： 3:27
zh-cn:为什么要担心？我们何必担心变成市场社会？我认为原因有两个原因之一是不平等钱能买到的东西越多富裕与否就越重要如果钱只能让人买游艇、宝马或是享受豪华假期不平等就没那么重要但是当金钱越来越能够支配美好生活的要素—像样的医疗服务，优良的教育选举中的政治话语权和影响力—当金钱完全支配了这些要素不平等就事关重大因此，全面市场化使不平等及其社会和公民效应刺痛更为尖锐不平等只是原因之一
en:Now, why worry? Why worry about our becomingmarket societies?For two reasons, I think.One of them has to do with inequality.The more things money can buy,the more affluence, or the lack of it, matters.If the only thing that money determinedwas access to yachts or fancy vacations or BMWs,then inequality wouldn&#39;t matter very much.But when money comes increasingly to governaccess to the essentials of the good life —decent health care, access to the best education,political voice and influence in campaigns —when money comes to govern all of those things,inequality matters a great deal.And so the marketization of everythingsharpens the sting of inequalityand its social and civic consequence.That&#39;s one reason to worry.
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:另一个原因也令人担心那就是有些社会商品和常规一旦被市场思维和价值介入那些常规的意义可能因此会改变值得我们关心的态度和规范也可能被排挤
en:There&#39;s a second reasonapart from the worry about inequality,and it&#39;s this:with some social goods and practices,when market thinking and market values enter,they may change the meaning of those practicesand crowd out attitudes and normsworth caring about.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:我想举一个运用市场机制而受争议的例子即金钱奖励机制，看看你们怎么想的许多学校面临严峻挑战怎样才能鼓励孩子用功读书尤其是来自弱势背景的孩子怎样才能表现良好，努力向上一些经济学家提出市场解决方案提供金钱奖励，只要孩子成绩好或考试分数高或阅读书籍事实上他们尝试过这个办法在美国一些主要城市他们做过实验在纽约、芝加哥、华盛顿特区他们的做法是：成绩A给50美元B则给35美元德州达拉斯有这样一个计划八岁的学童每读一本书奖励两美元
en:I&#39;d like to take an exampleof a controversial use of a market mechanism,a cash incentive, and see what you think about it.Many schools struggle with the challengeof motivating kids, especially kidsfrom disadvantaged backgrounds, to study hard,to do well in school, to apply themselves.Some economists have proposed a market solution:Offer cash incentives to kids for getting good gradesor high test scoresor for reading books.They&#39;ve tried this, actually.They&#39;ve done some experimentsin some major American cities.In New York, in Chicago, in Washington, D.C.,they&#39;ve tried this, offering 50 dollars for an A,35 dollars for a B.In Dallas, Texas, they have a program that offerseight-year-olds two dollars for each book they read.
时间： 6:03
zh-cn:有些人支持这个方法有些人反对利用金钱鼓励学生向上我想知道你们的看法假设你是一个主要学区的主管有人向你提出这种建议假设是基金会的提议，他们出钱学校不用出钱有多少人会赞成多少人会反对对此进行尝试请举手回答
en:So let&#39;s see what — Some people are in favor,some people are opposed to this cash incentiveto motivate achievement.Let&#39;s see what people here think about it.Imagine that you are the head of a major school system,and someone comes to you with this proposal.And let&#39;s say it&#39;s a foundation. They will provide the funds.You don&#39;t have to take it out of your budget.How many would be in favorand how many would be opposed to giving it a try?Let&#39;s see by a show of hands.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:认为至少值得一试的人请举手
en:First, how many think it might at least be worth a tryto see if it would work? Raise your hand.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:反对的人有多少？
en:And how many would be opposed? How many would —
时间： 6:42
zh-cn:看来多数人反对但赞成的也不少我们讨论一下从反方开始你们连试都不愿意试理由何在？谁愿意起个头？你？
en:So the majority here are opposed,but a sizable minority are in favor.Let&#39;s have a discussion.Let&#39;s start with those of you who object,who would rule it out even before trying.What would be your reason?Who will get our discussion started? Yes?
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:Heike Moses：大家好，我是Heike我认为那会抹杀内在的动力如果学童想要读书钱只会驱除内在的动力给钱只能改变行为Michael Sandel：驱除内在的动力
en:Heike Moses: Hello everyone, I&#39;m Heike,and I think it just kills the intrinsic motivation,so in the respect that children, if they would like to read,you just take this incentive awayin just paying them, so it just changes behavior.Michael Sandel: Takes the intrinsic incentive away.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:内在的动力是什么？应该是什么？
en:What is, or should be, the intrinsic motivation?
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:HM：内在动力嘛应该是学习
en:HM: Well, the intrinsic motivationshould be to learn.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:MS：学习HM：为了认识世界要是停止给钱，结果会怎样？他们会不会停止阅读？
en:MS: To learn.HM: To get to know the world.And then, if you stop paying them, what happens then?Then they stop reading?
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:MS：现在看看有没有赞成的谁认为值得一试
en:MS: Now, let&#39;s see if there&#39;s someone who favors,who thinks it&#39;s worth trying this.
时间： 7:40
zh-cn:Elizabeth Loftus：我是Elizabeth Loftus你问是否值得一试，试试看又何妨何妨做做实验，衡量结果MS：衡量。衡量什么？你要衡量有多少...EL：他们读了多少书停止给钱之后又继续读了多少书
en:Elizabeth Loftus: I&#39;m Elizabeth Loftus,and you said worth a try, so why not try itand do the experiment and measure things?MS: And measure. And what would you measure?You&#39;d measure how many —EL: How many books they readand how many books they continued to readafter you stopped paying them.
时间： 8:01
zh-cn:MS：哦，不给钱以后读了多少行，这可以嘛？
en:MS: Oh, after you stopped paying.All right, what about that?
时间： 8:04
zh-cn:HM：老实说，我认为我无意冒犯，这非常美国作风
en:HM: To be frank, I just thinkthis is, not to offend anyone, a very American way.
时间： 8:11
zh-cn:（笑声）（掌声）
en:(Laughter) (Applause)
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:MS：好，这个讨论点出了一个问题：金钱奖励会不会驱除或败坏或排挤更高层次的动力？我们希望传达的内在动力就是培养对学习的热爱以及为阅读而阅读市场机制的效果，大家意见不同但这似乎是问题之所在市场机制或金钱奖励似乎是错误的教学如果真的错了，学童将来会怎样？
en:MS: All right. What&#39;s emerged from this discussionis the following question:Will the cash incentive drive out or corruptor crowd out the higher motivation,the intrinsic lesson that we hope to convey,which is to learn to love to learn and to readfor their own sakes?And people disagree about what the effect will be,but that seems to be the question,that somehow a market mechanismor a cash incentive teaches the wrong lesson,and if it does, what will become of these children later?
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:我应该告诉你们实验的结果用钱奖励好成绩，毁誉参半大体上不会导致更佳的成绩读一本书给两美元学童确实读更多书也因此看页数较少的书
en:I should tell you what&#39;s happened with these experiments.The cash for good grades has had very mixed results,for the most part has not resulted in higher grades.The two dollars for each bookdid lead those kids to read more books.It also led them to read shorter books.
时间： 9:17
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:但真正的问题是这些孩子将来会怎样会不会认定阅读是苦差事是按件计酬的工作，那就令人担心也可能他们开始或许动机不正但日后会爱上阅读的乐趣
en:But the real question is,what will become of these kids later?Will they have learned that reading is a chore,a form of piecework to be done for pay, that&#39;s the worry,or may it lead them to read maybe for the wrong reason initiallybut then lead them to fall in love with reading for its own sake?
时间： 9:40
zh-cn:连这小小的辩论也指出了许多经济学家疏忽之处经济学家通常认为市场是钝化的不会影响或污染其交易的商品他们以为市场的交易改变不了商品的意义和价值这种假设可能成立如果指的是物质商品例如你卖给我平面电视或是送给我当礼物东西质量都一样好功能怎么都一样但未必事事如此如果是非物质商品例如执教和学习等社会常规或是共同参与公民生活在这些领域引进市场机制和金钱奖励可能会破坏或排挤我们该关心的非市场价值和态度一旦我们了解市场和交易跨越物质领域的时候可以改变商品本身的特质可以改变社会常规的意义执教和学习就是例子我们就要问，哪些地方适合市场哪些地方不适合哪些地方其实可能会破坏我们该关心的价值和态度但是要辩论就必须去做我们不太擅长的事那就是一起公开讨论我们珍惜的社会常规其价值和意义从自己的身体到家庭生活从私人关系到健康从执教和学习到公民生活
en:Now, what this, even this brief debate, brings outis something that many economists overlook.Economists often assumethat markets are inert,that they do not touch or taint the goods they exchange.Market exchange, they assume,doesn&#39;t change the meaning or valueof the goods being exchanged.This may be true enoughif we&#39;re talking about material goods.If you sell me a flat screen televisionor give me one as a gift,it will be the same good.It will work the same either way.But the same may not be trueif we&#39;re talking about nonmaterial goodsand social practices such as teaching and learningor engaging together in civic life.In those domains, bringing market mechanismsand cash incentives may undermineor crowd out nonmarket values and attitudesworth caring about.Once we seethat markets and commerce,when extended beyond the material domain,can change the character of the goods themselves,can change the meaning of the social practices,as in the example of teaching and learning,we have to ask where markets belongand where they don&#39;t,where they may actually underminevalues and attitudes worth caring about.But to have this debate,we have to do something we&#39;re not very good at,and that is to reason together in publicabout the value and the meaningof the social practices we prize,from our bodies to family lifeto personal relations to healthto teaching and learning to civic life.
时间：11:42
zh-cn:这些问题都有争议所以我们较易退缩事实上过去30年来市场论据和市场思维已经凝聚力量并且受到尊崇同时我们的公共谈话却已空洞化缺乏更宏大的道德意义因为害怕争论，我们避而不谈不过一旦我们了解市场会改变商品的特质我们就必须讨论这些更大的问题关于商品价值的问题
en:Now these are controversial questions,and so we tend to shrink from them.In fact, during the past three decades,when market reasoning and market thinkinghave gathered force and gained prestige,our public discourse during this timehas become hollowed out,empty of larger moral meaning.For fear of disagreement, we shrink from these questions.But once we see that marketschange the character of goods,we have to debate among ourselvesthese bigger questionsabout how to value goods.
时间：12:24
zh-cn:凡事标价很严重的腐蚀了我们的共性也就是同舟共济的感觉在不平等激增的背景下把生活各层面市场化导致富裕的人和资源有限的人日益分道扬镳无论生活、工作、购物、娱乐都在不同的地方子女进入不同的学校
en:One of the most corrosive effectsof putting a price on everythingis on commonality,the sense that we are all in it together.Against the background of rising inequality,marketizing every aspect of lifeleads to a condition where those who are affluentand those who are of modest meansincreasingly live separate lives.We live and work and shop and playin different places.Our children go to different schools.
时间：13:04
zh-cn:这对民主是不利的也不是令人满意的生活方式即使我们能够花钱排在队列最前，也不例外原因是民主虽然不必完全平等但必要的是公民能分享共同的生活重要的是不同社会背景的人不同身分的人互相接触碰到一起而且是在日常生活之中因为这样我们才能学会协商以及容忍差异这样我们才会关心共同利益
en:This isn&#39;t good for democracy,nor is it a satisfying way to live,even for those of us who can affordto buy our way to the head of the line.Here&#39;s why.Democracy does not require perfect equality,but what it does requireis that citizens share in a common life.What matters is that peopleof different social backgroundsand different walks of lifeencounter one another,bump up against one anotherin the ordinary course of life,because this is what teaches usto negotiate and to abide our differences.And this is how we come to care for the common good.
时间：13:52
zh-cn:所以到头来市场的问题主要不是经济问题关键是我们要如何共同生活我们想要凡事标价的社会？或者某些道德和公民商品是市场不重视金钱买不到的？
en:And so, in the end, the question of marketsis not mainly an economic question.It&#39;s really a question of how we want to live together.Do we want a society where everything is up for sale,or are there certain moral and civic goodsthat markets do not honorand money cannot buy?
时间：14:16
zh-cn:非常感谢
en:Thank you very much.
时间：14:18
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
