时间： 0:11
zh-cn:当我接到邀请来给TED做这个演讲的时候，我真的笑了。因为，你知道，我父亲的名字就叫Ted，而且我生命的大部分，特别是我的音乐生涯，也只是一次和他进行的，现在还在继续的谈话，或者一部分的我，还在继续。
en:Well when I was asked to do this TEDTalk, I was really chuckled,because, you see, my father&#39;s name was Ted,and much of my life, especially my musical life,is really a talk that I&#39;m still having with him,or the part of me that he continues to be.
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:现在，Ted住在纽约，奔波于不同的剧场，他是一个自学成才的指挥家和音乐家。他不识乐谱，并且他有很严重的弱听。他还是我最好的老师。即使他不得不借助助听器，他对于音乐的理解非常深刻。
en:Now Ted was a New Yorker, an all-around theater guy,and he was a self-taught illustrator and musician.He didn&#39;t read a note,and he was profoundly hearing impaired.Yet, he was my greatest teacher.Because even through the squeaks of his hearing aids,his understanding of music was profound.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:而且对于他来说，重要的不只是音乐的形式，而是它带来的感受，和它把你带到哪里。他曾经用绘画描绘过这种感受，他把它命名为，在“音乐的世界”。Ted每天都通过即兴表演沉浸在这个世界里有点像在叮砰巷听到的音乐的风格（叮砰巷：美国纽约市第28街为中心的音乐出版商和作曲家聚集地）。（音乐）
en:And for him, it wasn&#39;t so much the way the music goesas about what it witnesses and where it can take you.And he did a painting of this experience,which he called &quot;In the Realm of Music.&quot;Now Ted entered this realm every day by improvisingin a sort of Tin Pan Alley style like this.(Music)
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:但是对于音乐本身，他是异常严肃认真的。他说：“音乐里，只有两件事情最重要：”“内容（什么），和表达形式（如何）。””对于古典音乐来说，内容和表现形式，永无止境。
en:But he was tough when it came to music.He said, &quot;There are only two things that matter in music:what and how.And the thing about classical music,that what and how, it&#39;s inexhaustible.&quot;
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:这就是他对于音乐的激情。我的父母亲都非常热爱音乐。他们并不是无所不知，但是他们给了我一个机会，去发现音乐，——和他们一起。我认为正是那些受那些记忆的启发，我一直以来都非常热衷于尝试，并把音乐带给尽可能多的人，千方百计的用各种渠道传播给更多人。而且人们从哪里接触到某种音乐，它如何融入他们的生活，非常让我着迷。
en:That was his passion for the music.Both my parents really loved it.They didn&#39;t know all that much about it,but they gave me the opportunity to discover ittogether with them.And I think inspired by that memory,it&#39;s been my desire to try and bring itto as many other people as I can,sort of pass it on through whatever means.And how people get this music, how it comes into their lives,really fascinates me.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:有一天，我在纽约的街头我看到一些小孩子在门廊，汽车和消防栓之间打棒球。一个强壮的，无精打采的孩子准备击球，他甩开球棒，真的击到了球。然后他看着球飞了一会儿，然后就唱起来，”达 达达……（音乐旋律）。“”巴 达达 达……“然后他绕着球场跑起来。我就想，试着猜猜看吧。这首18世纪奥地利的贵族音乐是怎么样变成这个纽约孩子的胜利的时候欢唱的旋律的？这首曲子是怎么样流传下来的？那个孩子是怎么样听到莫扎特的曲子的？
en:One day in New York, I was on the streetand I saw some kids playing baseball between stoops and cars and fire hydrants.And a tough, slouchy kid got up to bat,and he took a swing and really connected.And he watched the ball fly for a second,and then he went, &quot;Dah dadaratatatah.Brah dada dadadadah.&quot;And he ran around the bases.And I thought, go figure.How did this piece of 18th century Austrian aristocratic entertainmentturn into the victory crow of this New York kid?How was that passed on? How did he get to hear Mozart?
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:当说到古典音乐的时候，有太多的东西被传承，比莫扎特，贝多芬，或者柴可夫斯基多得多。因为古典音乐是从未被间断的鲜活的传统已经有超过1000年的历史。这其中的每一年都有一些独特的，强大的事情启发着我们去体验活着是什么样子。
en:Well when it comes to classical music,there&#39;s an awful lot to pass on,much more than Mozart, Beethoven or Tchiakovsky.Because classical musicis an unbroken living traditionthat goes back over 1,000 years.And every one of those yearshas had something unique and powerful to say to usabout what it&#39;s like to be alive.
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:现在，那些原始的素材，当然，就是那些和日常生活有关的音乐。那就是所有的赞美诗，流行的舞曲还有歌谣，还有进行曲。但是古典音乐所做的，就是把所有的这些音乐进行提炼，把它们提炼成为绝对的精华。从这种精华里，创造了一种新的语言，这种语言深情地，原原本本地讲述着我们本来的面目。这是一种还在不断进化的语言。
en:Now the raw material of it, of course,is just the music of everyday life.It&#39;s all the anthems and dance crazesand ballads and marches.But what classical music doesis to distill all of these musics down,to condense them to their absolute essence,and from that essence create a new language,a language that speaks very lovingly and unflinchinglyabout who we really are.It&#39;s a language that&#39;s still evolving.
时间： 3:43
zh-cn:在数个世纪的时间里，它成为了我们平时所熟知的形式，比如协奏曲和交响乐，但是即使是最充满雄心的经典乐曲它最中心的价值是把你带到那个脆弱的私人空间就像是贝多芬的小提琴协奏曲。（音乐）它如此简单，如此的能唤起人们的遐想。它里面看起来包含了如此多的情绪。当然，就像所有的音乐，它本身并不是在阐述所有的事情。它只是一连串设计出来的音调，静止和时间节拍。
en:Now over the centuries it grew into the big pieces we always think of,like concertos and symphonies,but even the most ambitious masterpiececan have as its central missionto bring you back to a fragile and personal moment —like this one from the Beethoven Violin Concerto.(Music)It&#39;s so simple, so evocative.So many emotions seem to be inside of it.Yet, of course, like all music,it&#39;s essentially not about anything.It&#39;s just a design of pitches and silence and time.
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:这些音调，音符，你知道，其实只是机械的振动。它们是音域中的位置。不管是我们教它每秒（振动）440次， A，还是3729，降B大调——相信我，都是对的——它们只是现象。但是我们对于这些现象的不同组合的反应很复杂，而且情绪化，并且不完全能被理解。而且我们对于他们的反应，在几个世纪的时间里发生着急剧的变化，就像我们对于它们的喜好的变化。
en:And the pitches, the notes, as you know, are just vibrations.They&#39;re locations in the spectrum of sound.And whether we call them 440 per second, A,or 3,729, B flat — trust me, that&#39;s right —they&#39;re just phenomena.But the way we react to different combinations of these phenomenais complex and emotional and not totally understood.And the way we react to them has changed radically over the centuries,as have our preferences for them.
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:例如，在11世纪，人们喜欢结尾是这样的曲子。（音乐）到了17世纪，就更倾向于这样的。（音乐）在21世纪……（音乐）
en:So for example, in the 11th century,people liked pieces that ended like this.(Music)And in the 17th century, it was more like this.(Music)And in the 21st century ...(Music)
时间： 5:59
zh-cn:你们生活的21世纪非常喜欢像是刚才这个和弦，虽然在过去，这种调调也许让你感到困惑，或者你觉得很讨厌或者能让你们中的一些人赶紧逃离这个房间。你喜欢它的原因是因为你继承了，不管你知道与否，几个世纪以来的变化在音乐理论，实践和流行趋势当中。
en:Now your 21st century ears are quite happy with this last chord,even though a while back it would have puzzled or annoyed youor sent some of you running from the room.And the reason you like itis because you&#39;ve inherited, whether you knew it or not,centuries-worth of changesin musical theory, practice and fashion.
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:在古典音乐中，我们可以非常准确的寻找这些变化的轨迹这是音乐有一个默默无闻，但是很强大的伙伴，这就是音乐得以流传的方式：乐谱。把音乐用符号记录下来的冲动，或者，用更确切地表达方式，我要说，给音乐编码已经伴随我们很长一段历史了。在公元前200年，一个叫做Sekulos的人，为他过世了的妻子写了一首歌然后把它刻在了她的墓碑上用希腊的记谱系统。（音乐）
en:And in classical music we can follow these changes very, very accuratelybecause of the music&#39;s powerful silent partner,the way it&#39;s been passed on: notation.Now the impulse to notate,or, more exactly I should say, encode musichas been with us for a very long time.In 200 B.C., a man named Sekuloswrote this song for his departed wifeand inscribed it on her gravestonein the notational system of the Greeks.(Music)
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:一千年之后，这种记录的方式采用了一种完全不同的方式。你可以看到这是怎么发生的在那些圣诞弥撒曲&quot;Puer Natus est nobis,&quot;&quot;为我们而生&quot;（音乐）在10世纪，弯弯曲曲的小曲线被用来表示音符的几号。在12世纪，加了一条线，有点儿像是音乐的地平线，用来定位音高。
en:And a thousand years later,this impulse to notate took an entirely different form.And you can see how this happenedin these excerpts from the Christmas mass &quot;Puer Natus est nobis,&quot;&quot;For Us is Born.&quot;(Music)In the 10th century, little squiggles were usedjust to indicate the general shape of the tune.And in the 12th century, a line was drawn, like a musical horizon line,to better pinpoint the pitch&#39;s location.
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:到了13世纪，更多的线，和不同形状的符号被确定下来准确的表达音阶，这就发展成了我们今天的记谱方式。记谱并不仅仅把音乐传承了下来，记录和给音乐编码的作用也整个发生了改变，因为它能让音乐家在更大的范围内，想象构思音乐。
en:And then in the 13th century, more lines and new shapes of noteslocked in the concept of the tune exactly,and that led to the kind of notation we have today.Well notation not only passed the music on,notating and encoding the music changed its priorities entirely,because it enabled the musiciansto imagine music on a much vaster scale.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:现在，在一时的灵感基础上的即兴创作可以被记录，保存，考虑，重新区分优先次序，处理成复杂的设计。从这一刻起，古典音乐变成它本质上的意义所在，一种自然界两个强大的两极的对话：本能和智慧。
en:Now inspired moves of improvisationcould be recorded, saved, considered, prioritized,made into intricate designs.And from this moment, classical music becamewhat it most essentially is,a dialogue between the two powerful sides of our nature:instinct and intelligence.
时间： 8:47
zh-cn:这就导致了真正的差别——在即兴创作的艺术，和作曲的艺术之间。一个即兴演奏着，感受，并且演奏（众多旋律的可能性中）很酷的一种方式，但是一个严肃的作曲家考虑所有可能的方向，试验它们，把它们排列顺序，直到找到一种强大的，和谐的设计这是一种最终的，有生命力的伟大延续。一些最伟大作曲家，比如巴赫，是两种事物的结合。巴赫像是一个有着国际象棋大师一样头脑的即兴演奏家。莫扎特也是一样。
en:And there began to be a real difference at this pointbetween the art of improvisationand the art of composition.Now an improviser senses and plays the next cool move,but a composer is considering all possible moves,testing them out, prioritizing them out,until he sees how they can form a powerful and coherent designof ultimate and enduring coolness.Now some of the greatest composers, like Bach,were combinations of these two things.Bach was like a great improviser with a mind of a chess master.Mozart was the same way.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:但是每个音乐家在真实和推理，本能和智慧之间的平衡点不一样。每一个音乐时代，都有不同的突出特点，不同的事情传承，不同的“什么（内容）”和“怎么样（形式）”。所以在这个传统的前八个世纪这个大的“什么”是对神的颂扬。到了15世纪，音乐用来被反应神的意志比如在夜空中可以看到他的显现。这里的“怎么样”是一种叫做复位音乐的形式，一种很多种各自独立的，不同的声音被用来阐释行星看起来运动的方式——在托勒密（古希腊天文学家、地理学家、数学家， 地心说的创立者)的地球为中心的宇宙中。这是真正的地球的音乐。（音乐）
en:But every musician strikes a different balancebetween faith and reason, instinct and intelligence.And every musical era had different priorities of these things,different things to pass on, different &#39;whats&#39; and &#39;hows&#39;.So in the first eight centuries or so of this traditionthe big &#39;what&#39; was to praise God.And by the 1400s, music was being writtenthat tried to mirror God&#39;s mindas could be seen in the design of the night sky.The &#39;how&#39; was a style called polyphony,music of many independently moving voicesthat suggested the way the planets seemed to movein Ptolemy&#39;s geocentric universe.This was truly the music of the spheres.(Music)
时间：10:44
zh-cn:这是一种莱奥纳多 达芬奇应该知道的音乐。也许它的高度的智慧的完美性和纯粹性预示着有些什么事情即将发生——一种激进的变化，真的在十七世纪发生了。（音乐）啊，邪恶的，残酷的命运！啊，凶兆星！啊，贪婪的天堂！
en:This is the kind of music that Leonardo DaVinci would have known.And perhaps its tremendous intellectual perfection and serenitymeant that something new had to happen —a radical new move, which in 1600 is what did happen.(Music) Singer: Ah, bitter blow!Ah, wicked, cruel fate!Ah, baleful stars!Ah, avaricious heaven!
时间：11:26
zh-cn:这，当然，就是歌剧的起源，它的发展，把音乐送上了快速发展的轨道。这里的“什么”不是反应上帝的意志了，而是表达人的情绪的变化。而这里的“如何”，就是和声，也就是把音高叠加起来，组成和弦。
en:MTT: This, of course, was the birth of opera,and its development put music on a radical new course.The what now was not to mirror the mind of God,but to follow the emotion turbulence of man.And the how was harmony,stacking up the pitches to form chords.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:而和弦，正好可以代表令人吃惊的各种情绪。基本的和旋，就是现在我们还可以看到的，三和弦，不管是大三和弦我们认为它代表愉快，还是小三和弦我们把它理解为忧伤。但是这两种和弦之间究竟是有什么差别？差别只是中间的两个音符。它是E本位音，或者是每秒659次振动，或者是是降E大调，在622赫兹。所以人类愉快和悲伤之间的巨大差异？只是37个奇异的振动。
en:And the chords, it turned out,were capable of representing incredible varieties of emotions.And the basic chords were the ones we still have with us,the triads,either the major one,which we think is happy,or the minor one,which we perceive as sad.But what&#39;s the actual difference between these two chords?It&#39;s just these two notes in the middle.It&#39;s either E natural,and 659 vibrations per second,or E flat, at 622.So the big difference between human happiness and sadness?37 freakin&#39; vibrations.
时间：12:39
zh-cn:所以，你看在这个系统里，有巨大的微妙的潜力，来表达人类的情绪。事实上，随着人们越来越多的理解人的复杂和摇摆不定的天性，和声也变得越来越复杂。它能表达语言不能描述的情感。
en:So you can see in a system like thisthere was enormous subtle potentialof representing human emotions.And in fact, as man began to understand morehis complex and ambivalent nature,harmony grew more complex to reflect it.Turns out it was capable of expressing emotionsbeyond the ability of words.
时间：13:01
zh-cn:有了这个可能性，古典音乐开始真的腾飞了。这是大的形式开始上升的时代。技术的进步也开始起作用，因为乐谱的印刷品可以被各地的演奏者得到了。新的，改进的乐器使得这成为一个演绎精湛的人们的时代。这就是那些大的形式出现的时代——交响乐，奏鸣曲，协奏曲
en:Now with all this possibility,classical music really took off.It&#39;s the time in which the big forms began to arise.And the effects of technology began to be felt also,because printing put music, the scores, the codebooks of music,into the hands of performers everywhere.And new and improved instrumentsmade the age of the virtuoso possible.This is when those big forms arose —the symphonies, the sonatas, the concertos.
时间：13:35
zh-cn:在这些时间组成的框架中，像是贝多芬这样的作曲家分享他们对于一生的真知灼见。一首像贝多芬第五交响乐的曲子基本上是记录了他是如何从悲伤走向愤怒，在半个小时的时间里，一步一步严格地沿着他的路线，知道他简直的最后一刻，跨向了喜悦。（音乐）
en:And in these big architectures of time,composers like Beethoven could share the insights of a lifetime.A piece like Beethoven&#39;s Fifthbasically witnessing how it was possiblefor him to go from sorrow and anger,over the course of a half an hour,step by exacting step of his route,to the moment when he could make it across to joy.(Music)
时间：14:32
zh-cn:碰巧这些交响乐可以用于更复杂的事物，比如文化中扣人心弦的那些事情，例如民族主义，或者对于自由的追求或者感官享受的前沿。但是不管音乐朝这其中的那个方向走，有一件事总是正确的，直到今天也是这样，那就是当音乐家停止演奏的时候，音乐就停止了。
en:And it turned out the symphony could be used for more complex issues,like gripping ones of culture,such as nationalism or quest for freedomor the frontiers of sensuality.But whatever direction the music took,one thing until recently was always the same,and that was when the musicians stopped playing,the music stopped.
时间：14:58
zh-cn:这个时刻让我觉得非常有意思。我觉得它如此深刻。当音乐停止，会怎么样？它去那儿了？留下了什么？在演出结束的时候，留给观众的是什么？是一个旋律还是一组节奏或者情绪还是态度？那又是如何改变他们的生活的？
en:Now this moment so fascinates me.I find it such a profound one.What happens when the music stops?Where does it go? What&#39;s left?What sticks with people in the audience at the end of a performance?Is it a melody or a rhythmor a mood or an attitude?And how might that change their lives?
时间：15:18
zh-cn:对我来说，这是音乐的私密，私人的一面。这是传承的那部分，是“为什么”那部分。在我看来，这是所有的概念中最核心的部分。大多数时候，这是人于人之间的事情。是介意老师——学生，表演者——听众之间的事，而到了1880年出现了一种新技术开始是机械的，然后是模拟电路，然后是数字电路开创了新的，奇迹般的方式，传承事物虽然不是在个人层面上。人们可以一直听音乐，即使他们不不一定要演奏乐器，读乐谱或者甚至到音乐会去。
en:To me this is the intimate, personal side of music.It&#39;s the passing on part. It&#39;s the &#39;why&#39; part of it.And to me that&#39;s the most essential of all.Mostly it&#39;s been a person-to-person thing,a teacher-student, performer-audience thing,and then around 1880 came this new technologythat first mechanically then through analogs then digitallycreated a new and miraculous way of passing things on,albeit an impersonal one.People could now hear music all the time,even though it wasn&#39;t necessaryfor them to play an instrument, read music or even go to concerts.
时间：15:57
zh-cn:技术让一切都成为可能，让音乐更大众化。它引导了一场文化上的革命在这场革命里，Caruso（1873 – 1921意大利男高音）和Bessie Smith （1894 – 1937最著名的蓝调音乐歌手）站在同一个起跑线上。技术把作曲家推向了惊人的极致，使用计算机和合成器创作出智力不能达到的复杂作品超越了表演者和观众的所见到过的手法。
en:And technology democratized music by making everything available.It spearheaded a cultural revolutionin which artists like Caruso and Bessie Smith were on the same footing.And technology pushed composers to tremendous extremes,using computers and synthesizersto create works of intellectually impenetrable complexitybeyond the means of performers and audiences.
时间：16:22
zh-cn:同时，技术通过取代记谱一直以来所起的作用，把本能和智慧之间的平衡倾斜到本能的那一面。我们现在所生活在其中的文化被即兴表演的音乐所淹没那些音乐被分成片，切割成小块，分出层次并且，天知道，传播并且出售。这种情况长期下去对于我们，或者对于音乐的影响是什么？没人知道。
en:At the same time technology,by taking over the role that notation had always played,shifted the balance within music between instinct and intelligenceway over to the instinctive side.The culture in which we live nowis awash with music of improvisationthat&#39;s been sliced, diced, layeredand, God knows, distributed and sold.What&#39;s the long-term effect of this on us or on music?Nobody knows.
时间：16:50
zh-cn:问题依然是：当音乐停止的时候，会怎么样？依然留在人们身边的是什么？现在我们随时随地都可以听的音乐，它们带给我们的是什么？
en:The question remains: What happens when the music stops?What sticks with people?Now that we have unlimited access to music, what does stick with us?
时间：17:00
zh-cn:我用一个小故事来解释我的意思关于“到底留给我们的是什么。”我曾经去一栋老房子里看望我的表亲，我看到一个颤抖的老人在助步车的帮助下穿过房间。他来到那里放着的一架钢琴跟前，他调整好身子，然后开始弹类似于这样的曲子。（音乐）
en:Well let me show you a story of what I meanby &quot;really sticking with us.&quot;I was visiting a cousin of mine in an old age home,and I spied a very shaky old manmaking his way across the room on a walker.He came over to a piano that was there,and he balanced himself and began playing something like this.(Music)
时间：17:24
zh-cn:然后他说了类似于这样的话, &quot;我……男孩……贝多芬。&quot;我马上意识到他的意思，然后我说，“朋友，你是不是偶尔会弹这个？”（音乐）然后他说，“是的，是的，当时我还是个小孩子。交响乐，Issac Stern， 协奏曲，我听到了。“然后我想，上帝啊，音乐对这个人到底意味着什么能让这个人从床上起来，穿过房间重新开启他关于这首曲子的记忆在他生命里其他所有的事情都离他远去之后，依然对于他意味着这么多？
en:And he said something like, &quot;Me ... boy ... symphony ... Beethoven.&quot;And I suddenly got it,and I said, &quot;Friend, by any chance are you trying to play this?&quot;(Music)And he said, &quot;Yes, yes. I was a little boy.The symphony: Isaac Stern, the concerto, I heard it.&quot;And I thought, my God,how much must this music mean to this manthat he would get himself out of his bed, across the roomto recover the memory of this musicthat, after everything else in his life is sloughing away,still means so much to him?
时间：18:06
zh-cn:这就是为什么我对待每次演出都如此的认真，为什么它对我来说如此重要。我永远不知道谁会在那儿（听），谁会在如饥似渴的听这些音乐在他们的生活里会发生什么。
en:Well, that&#39;s why I take every performance so seriously,why it matters to me so much.I never know who might be there, who might be absorbing itand what will happen to it in their life.
时间：18:17
zh-cn:但是现在，我非常兴奋的是，和以往任何时候相比，我们分享音乐的机会都多得多。这就是推动我的动力，让我对于像旧金山交响乐团的电视系列片”Keeping Score“这样感兴趣的原因。讲述音乐背后的故事，并且和新世界交响乐团的年轻音乐家一起尝试寻找潜在的信表演场所服务于娱乐界和教育。
en:But now I&#39;m excited that there&#39;s more chance than ever before possibleof sharing this music.That&#39;s what drives my interest in projectslike the TV series &quot;Keeping Score&quot; with the San Francisco Symphonythat looks at the backstories of music,and working with the young musicians at the New World Symphonyon projects that explore the potentialof the new performing arts centersfor both entertainment and education.
时间：18:42
zh-cn:当然，新世界交响乐团也导致了You Tube交响乐团的产生和互联网上的一些项目影响到全世界各个角落的音乐家和观众。令人兴奋的是，这些都只是个雏形。它们为那么多人都提供了一个机会……教师，父母，演奏者……一起探索。当然，这些活动吸引了大量的人们关注，但是真正重要的是每天都发生的事情。我们需要你们的眼光，你们的好奇心，你们的声音。
en:And of course, the New World Symphonyled to the YouTube Symphony and projects on the internetthat reach out to musicians and audiences all over the world.And the exciting thing is all this is just a prototype.There&#39;s just a role here for so many people —teachers, parents, performers —to be explorers together.Sure, the big events attract a lot of attention,but what really matters is what goes on every single day.We need your perspectives, your curiosity, your voices.
时间：19:14
zh-cn:现在和不同的人们见面，让我非常兴奋比如步行者，厨师，程序员，出租车司机，那些我从没有想过会喜欢音乐的人那些传承音乐的人。你不用担心自己知道的不多。如果你好奇，如果你充满了疑问，如果你活着，你就知道你所需要知道的一切。你可以从任何地方开始。随处逛逛看。沿着别人的路走。也许会迷路，然后让自己惊奇，收到启发。关于”什么“，”如何“的所有信息，都在那儿等着你去发现背后的”为什么“，让你深入其中，并且传承下去。
en:And it excites me now to meet peoplewho are hikers, chefs, code writers, taxi drivers,people I never would have guessed who loved the musicand who are passing it on.You don&#39;t need to worry about knowing anything.If you&#39;re curious, if you have a capacity for wonder, if you&#39;re alive,you know all that you need to know.You can start anywhere. Ramble a bit.Follow traces. Get lost. Be surprised, amused inspired.All that &#39;what&#39;, all that &#39;how&#39; is out therewaiting for you to discover its &#39;why&#39;,to dive in and pass it on.
时间：19:51
zh-cn:谢谢！
en:Thank you.
时间：19:54
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
