时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我和我同事们所从事的神经科学研究就像天气预报我们总在追逐风暴我们想要观测的是头脑风暴平日里我们总在谈论头脑风暴但我们很少真正看到，或听到它所以每当我谈到头脑风暴时总希望能先让你们真实体验一下
en:The kind of neuroscience that I do and my colleagues dois almost like the weatherman.We are always chasing storms.We want to see and measure storms — brainstorms, that is.And we all talk about brainstorms in our daily lives,but we rarely see or listen to one.So I always like to start these talksby actually introducing you to one of them.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:实际上，这是我们第一次记录到多个神经细胞：同时观测100个脑细胞时我们所测到的电火花来自同一个动物的100个细胞我们第一次记录到的就是这段录音的前10秒我们撷取到了思想的一个小片段它就这样呈现在我们面前。
en:Actually, the first time we recorded more than one neuron —a hundred brain cells simultaneously —we could measure the electrical sparksof a hundred cells in the same animal,this is the first image we got,the first 10 seconds of this recording.So we got a little snippet of a thought,and we could see it in front of us.
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:我总是告诉学生们某种意义上讲，我们可以把神经学家叫做天文学家因为我们所处理的这个系统包含数量巨大的细胞数量大到只有宇宙中的星系数量可以比拟现在，在数十亿计的神经元中我们可以记录到的，已经从10 年前的100个到了现在的1000个我们想理解人性的基础因为，你可能不知道我们用来确立人性的一切，都源于这些头脑风暴这些席卷我们大脑沟回的风暴它确立了我们的记忆，信仰情感，以及我们的未来规划我们所做的一切每一个人曾经做，正在做和将要做的一切都基于大量的神经细胞工作所产生的这些风暴
en:I always tell the studentsthat we could also call neuroscientists some sort of astronomer,because we are dealing with a systemthat is only comparable in terms of number of cellsto the number of galaxies that we have in the universe.And here we are, out of billions of neurons,just recording, 10 years ago, a hundred.We are doing a thousand now.And we hope to understand something fundamental about our human nature.Because, if you don&#39;t know yet,everything that we use to define what human nature is comes from these storms,comes from these storms that roll over the hills and valleys of our brainsand define our memories, our beliefs,our feelings, our plans for the future.Everything that we ever do,everything that every human has ever done, do or will do,requires the toil of populations of neurons producing these kinds of storms.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:而头脑风暴的声音，如果你们没听过的话，就是这个样子的。需要的话，你们可以放大音量来听。我儿子说这就像&quot;一边听着没调准的收音机，一边做爆米花&quot;。这就是大脑。这是这些电风暴在扬声器中播放的声音。你可以听到一百个脑细胞同时开火的声音，你我的大脑听起来都像这样，任何大脑都如此。此时，作为神经学家，我们想做的实际上就是欣赏这些交响乐，头脑的交响乐试着获取这其中承载的信息。
en:And the sound of a brainstorm, if you&#39;ve never heard one,is somewhat like this.You can put it louder if you can.My son calls this &quot;making popcorn while listening to a badly-tuned A.M. station.&quot;This is a brain.This is what happens when you route these electrical storms to a loudspeakerand you listen to a hundred brain cells firing,your brain will sound like this — my brain, any brain.And what we want to do as neuroscientists in this timeis to actually listen to these symphonies, these brain symphonies,and try to extract from them the messages they carry.
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:需要特别提一句的是，大概12 年前我们创建了一个模式，我们把它叫做 脑-机 介面。我可以在这里介绍一下它的工作原理。想法就是，使用某些传感器，去聆听这些风暴，电风暴，我们能否与此同时在这些风暴离开大脑达到动物四肢的半秒左右的时间内我们能否读取这些信号将其中携带的运动信息提取出来转化成数字命令并发送到人工设备上设备将同步做出大脑指令的动作通过比较设备和动物身体所做的动作我们可以衡量这种“信息翻译”的准确程度
en:In particular, about 12 years agowe created a preparation that we named brain-machine interfaces.And you have a scheme here that describes how it works.The idea is, let&#39;s have some sensors that listen to these storms, this electrical firing,and see if you can, in the same time that it takesfor this storm to leave the brain and reach the legs or the arms of an animal —about half a second —let&#39;s see if we can read these signals,extract the motor messages that are embedded in it,translate it into digital commandsand send it to an artificial devicethat will reproduce the voluntary motor wheel of that brain in real time.And see if we can measure how well we can translate that messagewhen we compare to the way the body does that.
时间： 3:22
zh-cn:如果我们可以提供反馈把大脑控制下的人工机械执行器发出的信号再次传回大脑大脑将如何处理这些从人工设备接收回的信息
en:And if we can actually provide feedback,sensory signals that go back from this robotic, mechanical, computational actuatorthat is now under the control of the brain,back to the brain,how the brain deals with that,of receiving messages from an artificial piece of machinery.
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:这就是我们 10 年前做的事情。我们在一只名叫Aurora的猴子身上开始试验它现在已经成了这个领域的一个超级巨星了。Aurora喜欢玩电子游戏。就像你们现在看到的，就像我们和我们的孩子一样，它喜欢用操纵杆玩这个游戏作为优秀的灵长类动物，找到正确答案前它甚至还会试着作弊它需要用操纵杆控制光标穿过目标但在目标出现之前Aurora就已经开始到处寻找目标了只要它这么做，当它每次操作光标穿过目标，就可以得到一滴巴西橙汁。我可以跟你们说，只需一小滴巴西橙汁，任何猴子都肯为你赴汤蹈火。这适用于任何灵长类动物。想想吧。
en:And that&#39;s exactly what we did 10 years ago.We started with a superstar monkey called Aurorathat became one of the superstars of this field.And Aurora liked to play video games.As you can see here,she likes to use a joystick, like any one of us, any of our kids, to play this game.And as a good primate, she even tries to cheat before she gets the right answer.So even before a target appears that she&#39;s supposed to crosswith the cursor that she&#39;s controlling with this joystick,Aurora is trying to find the target, no matter where it is.And if she&#39;s doing that,because every time she crosses that target with the little cursor,she gets a drop of Brazilian orange juice.And I can tell you, any monkey will do anything for youif you get a little drop of Brazilian orange juice.Actually any primate will do that.Think about that.
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:玩你们看到的这种游戏每天进行一千次判断达到 97%的正确率， 获得350 毫升橙汁奖励。我们记录它大脑中产生的头脑风暴将它们发送到一个机器手臂机械手臂学习如何重现Aurora正在进行的动作。因为我们的想法是开启 脑-机 介面让Aurora通过思考就可以玩游戏不需要肢体的加入它的头脑风暴将控制机械臂机械臂移动光标穿过目标我们惊讶地发现，Aurora正是这么做的它玩游戏时，完全无需移动自己的身体
en:Well, while Aurora was playing this game, as you saw,and doing a thousand trials a dayand getting 97 percent correct and 350 milliliters of orange juice,we are recording the brainstorms that are produced in her headand sending them to a robotic armthat was learning to reproduce the movements that Aurora was making.Because the idea was to actually turn on this brain-machine interfaceand have Aurora play the game just by thinking,without interference of her body.Her brainstorms would control an armthat would move the cursor and cross the target.And to our shock, that&#39;s exactly what Aurora did.She played the game without moving her body.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:你们目前看到的每一条光标轨迹都是来自它第一次做到这点的时候都来自那一刻一个意识可以被灵长类动物从物理意义的身体中解放出来可以通过控制人工设备在外部世界进行动作Aurora一直玩游戏，不断寻找目标并得到它渴望的橙汁
en:So every trajectory that you see of the cursor now,this is the exact first moment she got that.That&#39;s the exact first momenta brain intention was liberated from the physical domains of a body of a primateand could act outside, in that outside world,just by controlling an artificial device.And Aurora kept playing the game, kept finding the little targetand getting the orange juice that she wanted to get, that she craved for.
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:那个时候，它已经获得了“新”手臂你们在这里看到机械手臂的动作是在第一个视频的30天后录制的在Aurora的大脑的控制之下它正将光标移到目标Aurora现在知道，它可以用机械臂玩这个游戏，同时还可以随心所欲使用自己的生物手臂去干别的用自己的手臂挠自己的背，可以挠我们，还可以玩另一个游戏总而言之Aurora的大脑已经整合了这个人工设备作为它身体的延伸Aurora意识里的自我已经扩展多出了一只手臂
en:Well, she did that because she, at that time, had acquired a new arm.The robotic arm that you see moving here 30 days later,after the first video that I showed to you,is under the control of Aurora&#39;s brainand is moving the cursor to get to the target.And Aurora now knows that she can play the game with this robotic arm,but she has not lost the ability to use her biological arms to do what she pleases.She can scratch her back, she can scratch one of us, she can play another game.By all purposes and means,Aurora&#39;s brain has incorporated that artificial deviceas an extension of her body.The model of the self that Aurora had in her mindhas been expanded to get one more arm.
时间： 6:31
zh-cn:这就是我们 10 多年所做的事让我们快进随后的10 年就在去年我们意识到，你甚至不需要有一个机械设备你可以只生成一个计算意义的身体，一个化身，猴子化身实际上，你就可以使用这个化身与猴子互动或者训练猴子，让它们学会在一个虚拟的世界中以化身的角度用大脑活动控制化身的肢体动作
en:Well, we did that 10 years ago.Just fast forward 10 years.Just last year we realized that you don&#39;t even need to have a robotic device.You can just build a computational body, an avatar, a monkey avatar.And you can actually use it for our monkeys to either interact with them,or you can train them to assume in a virtual worldthe first-person perspective of that avatarand use her brain activity to control the movements of the avatar&#39;s arms or legs.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:基本上，我们所做的就是训练动物学习如何控制这些化身探索出现在虚拟世界中的对象这些对象看上去一样但当化身穿过对象表面对象就会发出与自身表面微结构触感对应的电信息这些电信息直接返回猴子的大脑告诉大脑，化身触摸到了什么短短四个星期内，大脑就学会处理这种新的感觉并建立起了新的感官通路 — 就像一种新的感觉现在你真正地解放了大脑因为可以让大脑发送运动命令来移动化身同时来自化身的反馈可以直接通过大脑处理无需皮肤的参与
en:And what we did basically was to train the animalsto learn how to control these avatarsand explore objects that appear in the virtual world.And these objects are visually identical,but when the avatar crosses the surface of these objects,they send an electrical message that is proportional to the microtactile texture of the objectthat goes back directly to the monkey&#39;s brain,informing the brain what it is the avatar is touching.And in just four weeks, the brain learns to process this new sensationand acquires a new sensory pathway — like a new sense.And you truly liberate the brain nowbecause you are allowing the brain to send motor commands to move this avatar.And the feedback that comes from the avatar is being processed directly by the brainwithout the interference of the skin.
时间： 8:01
zh-cn:这里看到的是设计的任务你将看到实验动物触摸这三个目标但它只能选择其中一个，因为只有正确选中携带奖励的目标才能获得它们想要的橙汁它必须使用并不实际存在的一只虚拟手臂触摸和选择它们就是这么做的
en:So what you see here is this is the design of the task.You&#39;re going to see an animal basically touching these three targets.And he has to select one because only one carries the reward,the orange juice that they want to get.And he has to select it by touch using a virtual arm, an arm that doesn&#39;t exist.And that&#39;s exactly what they do.
时间： 8:21
zh-cn:这是对大脑的彻底解放从实际身体的限制中获得解放，完成知觉任务这只实验动物正控制化身去触摸目标它通过大脑直接接收电信息来感觉纹理大脑判断哪种纹理会带来奖励猴子看不见这个视频上的标示顺便说一句，反正它们也不懂英语这里的标示只是为了显示，正确的目标始终在变换位置然而，动物仍然可以通过触感的区别找到并选择它
en:This is a complete liberation of the brainfrom the physical constraints of the body and the motor in a perceptual task.The animal is controlling the avatar to touch the targets.And he&#39;s sensing the texture by receiving an electrical message directly in the brain.And the brain is deciding what is the texture associated with the reward.The legends that you see in the movie don&#39;t appear for the monkey.And by the way, they don&#39;t read English anyway,so they are here just for you to know that the correct target is shifting position.And yet, they can find them by tactile discrimination,and they can press it and select it.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:所以，当我们看看这些动物的大脑上方的图像中，你可以看到125个神经细胞的排列显示当动物使用操纵杆时大脑的活动产生的电风暴的情况这是每个神经生物学家都熟知的图像神经元的排列方式显示这些细胞正在编码所有的可能方向下面的图像是在身体停止移动实验动物开始控制机械设备或者计算化身时的情况就像我们重置电脑一样快大脑的活动发生变化，开始表达这个新工具就像新工具本来就是这个灵长类动物身体的一部分一样大脑以最快速度同化了它
en:So when we look at the brains of these animals,on the top panel you see the alignment of 125 cellsshowing what happens with the brain activity, the electrical storms,of this sample of neurons in the brainwhen the animal is using a joystick.And that&#39;s a picture that every neurophysiologist knows.The basic alignment shows that these cells are coding for all possible directions.The bottom picture is what happens when the body stops movingand the animal starts controlling either a robotic device or a computational avatar.As fast as we can reset our computers,the brain activity shifts to start representing this new tool,as if this too was a part of that primate&#39;s body.The brain is assimilating that too, as fast as we can measure.
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:这说明，我们的感觉本身并不会中止于身体的最外层皮肤而是中止于我们大脑控制的，最终端的设备工具我们的小提琴、汽车、自行车、足球、衣服等等它们都被这个称作大脑的，贪婪而令人惊叹的动态系统同化了
en:So that suggests to us that our sense of selfdoes not end at the last layer of the epithelium of our bodies,but it ends at the last layer of electrons of the tools that we&#39;re commanding with our brains.Our violins, our cars, our bicycles, our soccer balls, our clothing —they all become assimilated by this voracious, amazing, dynamic system called the brain.
时间：10:20
zh-cn:我们还能走得更远么？在前几年的实验中，我们达到了新的高度我们曾让一只实验动物在美国东海岸杜克大学的跑步机上运动产生运动所需要的头脑风暴同时，我们有了人形机器人设备放置在日本京都 ATR 实验室机器人一生的梦想就是获得一个人类或其它灵长类动物的大脑指令
en:How far can we take it?Well, in an experiment that we ran a few years ago, we took this to the limit.We had an animal running on a treadmillat Duke University on the East Coast of the United States,producing the brainstorms necessary to move.And we had a robotic device, a humanoid robot,in Kyoto, Japan at ATR Laboratoriesthat was dreaming its entire life to be controlled by a brain,a human brain, or a primate brain.
时间：10:49
zh-cn:猴子大脑的活动发出运动指令传到日本，并且控制这个机器人的行走行走的镜头被发送回杜克所以，猴子能看到机器人的双腿就在眼前行走它因此获得奖励，但并不是因为它自己身体的动作而是来源于地球另一端的机器人在它大脑活动控制下正确走的每一步
en:What happens here is that the brain activity that generated the movements in the monkeywas transmitted to Japan and made this robot walkwhile footage of this walking was sent back to Duke,so that the monkey could see the legs of this robot walking in front of her.So she could be rewarded, not by what her body was doingbut for every correct step of the robot on the other side of the planetcontrolled by her brain activity.
时间：11:18
zh-cn:有趣的是，这个环绕地球的往返行程比猴子的头脑风暴离开大脑达到其本身的肌肉所花的时间还要短20毫秒这只猴子正在移动地球另一端一个六倍于它身体的机器人这就是机器人自主行走的实验之一这是 CB1 正在在日本在灵长类动物大脑活动的控制下，完成自己的梦想
en:Funny thing, that round trip around the globe took 20 milliseconds lessthan it takes for that brainstorm to leave its head, the head of the monkey,and reach its own muscle.The monkey was moving a robot that was six times bigger, across the planet.This is one of the experiments in which that robot was able to walk autonomously.This is CB1 fulfilling its dream in Japanunder the control of the brain activity of a primate.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:我们所谈的所有这一切是为了什么？除了学习我们双耳间的这个动态宇宙，这项研究还可以用来做什么？我们的想法是，使用所有的这些知识和技术尝试解决世界上最严重的神经问题。数以百万计的人失去了将头脑风暴翻译成动作，翻译成运动的能力。虽然他们的大脑还在产生这些风暴，为运动编码，但他们无法跨越脊髓病变所制造的障碍。
en:So where are we taking all this?What are we going to do with all this research,besides studying the properties of this dynamic universe that we have between our ears?Well the idea is to take all this knowledge and technologyand try to restore one of the most severe neurological problems that we have in the world.Millions of people have lost the ability to translate these brainstormsinto action, into movement.Although their brains continue to produce those storms and code for movements,they cannot cross a barrier that was created by a lesion on the spinal cord.
时间：12:32
zh-cn:所以我们的理念是绕道而行，用 脑-机 介面来读取这些信号，放大这些携带重新运动愿望的头脑风暴，利用计算机微工程绕过病变将它发送到一个新身体，一个可以称为外骨骼的完整身体这个完整的机器人设备，将成为这些患者的全新躯体。
en:So our idea is to create a bypass,is to use these brain-machine interfaces to read these signals,larger-scale brainstorms that contain the desire to move again,bypass the lesion using computational microengineeringand send it to a new body, a whole body called an exoskeleton,a whole robotic suit that will become the new body of these patients.
时间：12:59
zh-cn:你们眼前的这个图景由一个叫做“再次行走项目”的非营利组织制作这个组织聚集了来自欧洲，美国和巴西的科学家，为构建这个全新躯体而共同努力。我们相信，与Aurora和其它猴子在 脑-机 介面中所使用的相同的合成设备我们可以把它们整合并应用于日常生活通过同样的合成设备，我们希望，能让这些病人不仅能够把他们想要做的动作翻译成新身体的动作同时还可以与这个大脑控制的新身体完美融合
en:And you can see an image produced by this consortium.This is a nonprofit consortium called the Walk Again Projectthat is putting together scientists from Europe,from here in the United States, and in Braziltogether to work to actually get this new body built —a body that we believe, through the same plastic mechanismsthat allow Aurora and other monkeys to use these tools through a brain-machine interfaceand that allows us to incorporate the tools that we produce and use in our daily life.This same mechanism, we hope, will allow these patients,not only to imagine again the movements that they want to makeand translate them into movements of this new body,but for this body to be assimilated as the new body that the brain controls.
时间：13:49
zh-cn:10 年前，别人告诉我这是痴人说梦，几乎是不可能的。作为一个科学家，我只能告诉你60年代中期，我在巴西南部长大看着几个疯狂的家伙告诉 [我们] 说他们会去月球。那时我五岁我想不通美国国家航空航天局（NASA）为什么不雇柯克船长和斯波克（电影《星际迷航》中的两个著名角色）去登月。毕竟，这方面他们才是专家。但儿时所见的这一切令我相信，我祖母曾经告诉过我的话&quot;所有不可能其实都是可能的，只是人们还没有付出足够的努力让它们成真。&quot;
en:So I was told about 10 years agothat this would never happen, that this was close to impossible.And I can only tell you that as a scientist,I grew up in southern Brazil in the mid-&#39;60swatching a few crazy guys telling [us] that they would go to the Moon.And I was five years old,and I never understood why NASA didn&#39;t hire Captain Kirk and Spock to do the job;after all, they were very proficient —but just seeing that as a kidmade me believe, as my grandmother used to tell me,that &quot;impossible is just the possiblethat someone has not put in enough effort to make it come true.&quot;
时间：14:28
zh-cn:所以，当有人告诉我，让一个人恢复行走能力是不可能的时候。我觉得我还是会相信我祖母的建议。
en:So they told me that it&#39;s impossible to make someone walk.I think I&#39;m going to follow my grandmother&#39;s advice.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:37
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
