时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我第一次着迷于章鱼是在我童年的时候。我在阿拉巴马州的莫比尔县长大。我想在座的各位中也有人去过那里，是吗？莫比尔县位于五条河流的交汇处，这就形成了这个美丽的三角洲。短吻鳄在这个三角洲里鱼儿丰富的河流中游荡蛇从柏树的枝头垂下，各种各样的鸟儿在枝头歌唱。这里绝对是一个充满魔力的仙境如果你是一个喜爱野生动物的孩子的话。这个三角洲的水流进莫比尔湾，最终汇入墨西哥湾。
en:I first became fascinated with octopus at an early age.I grew up in Mobile, Alabama —somebody&#39;s got to be from Mobile, right? —and Mobile sits at the confluence of five rivers,forming this beautiful delta.And the delta has alligators crawlingin and out of rivers filled with fishand cypress trees dripping with snakes,birds of every flavor.It&#39;s an absolute magical wonderland to live in —if you&#39;re a kid interested in animals, to grow up in.And this delta water flows to Mobile Bay, and finally into the Gulf of Mexico.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:我记得当我第一次接触章鱼大约是在我五，六岁的时候。那时我正在海湾里游泳，看海底发现了一只小章鱼。我于是潜到海底捉住了它，刹那间我就被它的速度，力量以及敏捷性所迷住了。它在我的指尖小心窥探，还爬到了我的手背上。当时我完全被这个神奇的生物所镇住了。接着，它在我的掌心稍稍放松了一些开始闪烁出不同的颜色，就像是自身会发光一样，当我注视着它的时候，它将触角收缩到身体下面，整个身体形成一个球形，呈巧克力色，上面还有两条白色的花纹。我在心里想：“天哪！”，我还从未见过如此有意思的东西！惊叹之余，我决定是时候将其放生了，于是我将它放回水中。这只章鱼离开了我的手掌，做出了一件最令人惊叹的事情。它停在碎石之上然后—“呼”的一声—消失了！就在我的眼前。
en:And I remember my first real contact with octopuswas probably at age five or six.I was in the gulf, and I was swimming around and saw a little octopus on the bottom.And I reached down and picked him up, and immediatelybecame fascinated and impressed by its speed and its strength and agility.It was prying my fingers apart and moving to the back of my hand.It was all I could do to hold onto this amazing creature.Then it sort of calmed down in the palms of my handsand started flashing colors,just pulsing all of these colors.And as I looked at it, it kind of tucked its arms under it,raised into a spherical shapeand turned chocolate brown with two white stripes.I&#39;m going, &quot;My gosh!&quot; I had never seen anything like this in my life!So I marveled for a moment, and then decided it was time to release him,so I put him down.The octopus left my hands and then did the damnedest thing:It landed on the bottom in the rubbleand — fwoosh! — vanishedright before my eyes.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:在那一刻，六岁的我意识到那就是我想要了解更多的生物。我也确实那样做了。我后来进了大学，取得了一个海洋生物学的学位，来到夏威夷继续攻读研究生学位在夏威夷大学。作为一名学生，我同时在夏威夷的威基寄水族馆里兼职。这个水族馆里面有许多巨大的水族箱，但是所展示的无脊椎动物并不多，所以作为一名无脊椎动物的粉丝，我想，我应该自己出去收集这些神奇的生物它们是我在学生时期长期研究的东西并且把它们带到这里，透过这些精美的水族箱展现给大家。
en:And I knew, right then, at age six,that is an animal that I want to learn more about. So I did.And I went off to college and got a degree in marine zoology,and then moved to Hawaii and entered graduate schoolat the University of Hawaii.And while a student at Hawaii, I worked at the Waikiki Aquarium.And the aquarium had a lot of big fish tanksbut not a lot of invertebrate displays,and being the spineless guy, I thought, wellI&#39;ll just go out in the field and collect these wonderful animalsI had been learning about as a studentand bring them in, and I built these elaborate sets and put them on display.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:虽然目前那些水族箱里面的鱼儿们看上去美极了，但是它们与我们人类并没有真正的交流。但是章鱼就有。如果你走向一个养着章鱼的水族箱，特别是在还没有人来的清晨，章鱼就会浮起来看着你你会猜测，“它真的是在看我吗？原来它确实是在盯着我！”当你走到水族箱前面，你就会发现这些章鱼们的性格各不相同。其中的一些喜欢守着自己的地盘，其他的一些会潜到水族箱的背面，隐藏在岩石之中。其中有一只最为特别，当我走到水族箱前面的时候，他正在凝视着我。章鱼的眼睛结构特殊，所以当我出现在水族箱前面的时候，在它看来我离它只有三到四英寸远。这只章鱼当时正栖息在一块小岩石上，它滑下岩石并且游到水族箱的玻璃前面所以我得以在离它六到七英寸的地方近距离观察这只动物，那时我离它是如此的近，直到今天，当我注视自己手掌的时候，我还能够回忆起当时的情景。当时我们相互凝视着对方，它沉到池底捧起一捧碎石把它们撒到水族箱的出水口处这个出水口通向水族箱的过滤系统，碎石被弹起，撞上前面的玻璃并滑落下来，发出“哧，哧，哧”的声音。接着它又抬起身，捧起另一捧碎石，把它们撒了下去...同样又发出了“哧，哧，哧”的声音。然后它抬起一只触须，于是我也抬起一只臂膀。接着它又抬起另一只，我也抬起了另一只胳膊。我忽然意识到在这样一场比赛中我永远不是章鱼的对手，因为我一共只有两只胳膊，而它还剩下六只呢。但是我想通过这件事告诉你们的就是这只章鱼当时正在玩耍，这对于无脊椎动物而言是一种相当复杂的行为。
en:Now, the fish in the tanks were gorgeous to look at,but they didn&#39;t really interact with people.But the octopus did.If you walked up to an octopus tank,especially early in the morning before anyone arrived,the octopus would rise up and look at youand you&#39;re thinking, &quot;Is that guy really looking at me? He is looking at me!&quot;And you walk up to the front of the tank. Then you realizethat these animals all have different personalities:Some of them would hold their ground,others would slink into the back of the tank and disappear in the rocks,and one in particular, this amazing animal ...I went up to the front of the tank, and he&#39;s just staring at me,and he had little horns come up above his eyes.So I went right up to the front of the tank —I was three or four inches from the front glass —and the octopus was sitting on a perch, a little rock,and he came off the rock and he also came down right to the front of the glass.So I was staring at this animal about six or seven inches away,and at that time I could actually focus that close;now as I look at my fuzzy fingers I realize those days are long gone.Anyway, there we were, staring at each other,and he reaches down and grabs an armful of graveland releases it in the jet of water entering the tankfrom the filtration system,and — chk chk chk chk chk! — this gravel hits the front of the glass and falls down.He reaches up, takes another armful of gravel, releases it —chk chk chk chk chk! — same thing.Then he lifts another arm and I lift an arm.Then he lifts another arm and I lift another arm.And then I realize the octopus won the arms race,because I was out and he had six left. (Laughter)But the only way I can describe what I was seeing that daywas that this octopus was playing,which is a pretty sophisticated behavior for a mere invertebrate.
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:受此启发，在我攻读学位的三年期间，一件有趣的事情发生了，它大大的改变了我的人生轨迹。水族馆里来了一位客人。他让我和我的几个朋友们去南太平洋，为他收集一些动物，当我们准备动身的时候，他交给我们两台16毫米镜头的摄像机。他说：“把这次的探险拍摄成电影吧。”那好吧，几个生物学家来拍摄一部电影—这一定会非常有趣的。之后我们也确实这样做了，我们拍摄了一部电影，虽然它也许算得上是一部最差的电影了在电影史上。但是对我而言却非常的震撼，我觉得这太有趣了。我记得当时脑海中灵光一闪，我想：“等一下，也许我可以永远从事这个职业。对，我想要成为一名摄影师。”所以我在完成这次的探险之后，就离开了学校，干起了摄影师这一行我从来没有告诉过别人其实当时连我自己都不知道我在做什么。这是一段美好的经历。当然，我在学校里所学习的东西真的让我受益匪浅。作为一名野生动物摄影师你需要去野外拍摄野生动物，特别是它们的生活习性，学校里学习的知识给我打下了基础涉及到如何辨别动物的种类，以及它们的一些生活习性。
en:So, about three years into my degree,a funny thing happened on the way to the office,which actually changed the course of my life.A man came into the aquarium. It&#39;s a long story, but essentiallyhe sent me and a couple of friends of mine to the South Pacificto collect animals for him,and as we left, he gave us two 16-millimeter movie cameras.He said, &quot;Make a movie about this expedition.&quot;&quot;OK, a couple of biologists making a movie —this&#39;ll be interesting,&quot;and off we went. And we did, we made a movie,which had to be the worst movie ever madein the history of movie making,but it was a blast. I had so much fun.And I remember that proverbial light going off in my head,thinking, &quot;Wait a minute.Maybe I can do this all the time.Yeah, I&#39;ll be a filmmaker.&quot;So I literally came back from that job,quit school, hung my filmmaking shingleand just never told anyone that I didn&#39;t know what I was doing.It&#39;s been a good ride.And what I learned in school though was really beneficial.If you&#39;re a wildlife filmmakerand you&#39;re going out into the field to film animals,especially behavior,it helps to have a fundamental backgroundon who these animals are,how they work and, you know, a bit about their behaviors.
时间： 4:50
zh-cn:但是我开始真正了解章鱼是在成为一名摄影师之后，当你拍摄它们的时候，你需要花费大量的时间与它们呆在一起，仔细的观察它们在它们的世界里。我记得我有一次去澳大利亚，到了一个被称为一树岛的岛屿。其实，这个岛屿上生物的进化速度还是相当快的，如果按照它的名字来推断的话，因为我可以肯定岛上至少有三棵树当我们到达那里的时候。一树岛坐落于一块美丽的珊瑚礁附近。事实上那里有一条汹涌的海峡一天涨潮两次，相当的频繁，那里有美丽的珊瑚礁结构复杂，是许多动物的栖息之地，包括许多的章鱼。并且，澳大利亚的章鱼种类虽然不独特，但是它们无疑是伪装高手。事实上，那里就有一只。所以我们的第一个任务就是去找到它们，这确实是一个挑战。我们的想法是：我们才刚刚到这里一个月的时间，我希望让这些动物适应我们的存在。这样我们就可以在不打扰它们的前提下观察到它们的行为。所以我们第一个星期花费了比较多的时间去尽可能的接近它们，每天一点点，一点点，一点点，这样你就可以知道它们会觉得紧张的边界在哪里，这时你就得退回来，呆上几个小时，第一个星期之后，它们就已经无视我们的存在了。它们可能会想：“我虽然搞不清那些是什么东西，但是它们不会伤害到我。”所以章鱼们就开始做自己的事情了。我们得以近距离的观察它们交配求偶和搏斗这是一次令人难以置信的经历。
en:But where I really learned about octopuswas in the field, as a filmmakermaking films with them,where you&#39;re allowed to spend large periods of timewith the animals, seeing octopus being octopusin their ocean homes.I remember I took a trip to Australia,went to an island called One Tree Island.And apparently, evolution had occurredat a pretty rapid rate on One Tree,between the time they named it and the time I arrived,because I&#39;m sure there were at least three treeson that island when we were there.Anyway, one tree is situated right next toa beautiful coral reef.In fact, there&#39;s a surge channelwhere the tide is moving back and forth, twice a day, pretty rapidly.And there&#39;s a beautiful reef,very complex reef, with lots of animals,including a lot of octopus.And not uniquelybut certainly, the octopus in Australiaare masters at camouflage.As a matter of fact,there&#39;s one right there.So our first challenge was to find these things,and that was a challenge, indeed.But the idea is, we were there for a monthand I wanted to acclimate the animals to usso that we could see behaviors without disturbing them.So the first week was pretty much spentjust getting as close as we could,every day a little closer, a little closer, a little closer.And you knew what the limit was: they would start getting twitchyand you&#39;d back up, come back in a few hours.And after the first week, they ignored us.It was like, &quot;I don&#39;t know what that thing is, but he&#39;s no threat to me.&quot;So they went on about their businessand from a foot away, we&#39;re watching matingand courting and fightingand it is just an unbelievable experience.
时间： 6:21
zh-cn:我记得其中一个最神奇的景象至少是可见的景象，是它们的觅食行为。它们利用各种不同的技巧来帮助它们觅食。特别是它们敏锐的视力。它们注意到一块珊瑚礁差不多有十英尺远并且开始向那里移动。我不知道它们是否看到了一只藏匿其中的螃蟹，或者是猜测到其中可能有一只，但是无论如何，它们会浮起来顺着水流稳稳地停在那块珊瑚礁上面，接着触须之间的网状物会完全包裹住这块珊瑚礁，然后摸索出里面的螃蟹。只要螃蟹一旦碰到这些触须，它就难逃一死了。我一直想知道在那张网的里面究竟发生了什么。所以我们想出了一种方法来查明真相。这是我第一次观察到它们利用那著名的钩型嘴捕食的样子。实在是太神奇了。
en:And one of the most fantastic displaysthat I remember, or at least visually,was a foraging behavior.And they had a lot of different techniquesthat they would use for foraging,but this particular one used vision.And they would see a coral head,maybe 10 feet away,and start moving over toward that coral head.And I don&#39;t know whether they actually saw crab in it, or imagined that one might be,but whatever the case, they would leap off the bottomand go through the water and land right on top of this coral head,and then the web between the armswould completely engulf the coral head,and they would fish out, swim for crabs.And as soon as the crabs touched the arm, it was lights out.And I always wondered what happened under that web.So we created a way to find out, (Laughter)and I got my first look at that famous beak in action.It was fantastic.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:如果你想要拍摄一系列关于不同动物的纪录片，你可能也需要首先选择一种相当常见的动物。章鱼就是一种：它们的分布面积广，并且居住在深水区。我虽然不想承认观察章鱼是我渴望潜入大海的原因，但是无论如何，我喜欢潜水。这就像开始了一段全新的旅程。
en:If you&#39;re going to make a lot of films about a particular group of animals,you might as well pick one that&#39;s fairly common.And octopus are, they live in all the oceans.They also live deep.And I can&#39;t say octopus are responsiblefor my really strong interestin getting in subs and going deep,but whatever the case, I like that.It&#39;s like nothing you&#39;ve ever done.
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:如果你愿意抛开一切去见识一些你从未见识过的东西，得到一次绝好的机会去认识一些从未被人认识过的东西，那就去潜水吧。你穿上潜水服，把自己密封起来，打开一点点氧气，打开过滤器，它可以清除掉你呼出的二氧化碳，为你带来保护。潜下去吧，那是一个和地面没有关联的世界除了相当特别的无线电信号。当你潜入大海的时候，水面上的清洗装置安静下来了。四周非常的宁静。你会感觉非常的棒。随着你越潜越深，海水的蓝色也变得越来越深。最终变成一种饱满的淡紫色，几千英尺深之后，已经变成墨黑色了。此时你已经潜入了大海的中部。
en:If you ever really want to get away from it alland see something that you have never seen,and have an excellent chance of seeing somethingno one has ever seen, get in a sub.You climb in, seal the hatch, turn on a little oxygen,turn on the scrubber,which removes the CO2 in the air you breathe, and they chuck you overboard.Down you go. There&#39;s no connection to the surfaceapart from a pretty funky radio.And as you go down, the washing machineat the surface calms down.And it gets quiet.And it starts getting really nice.And as you go deeper, that lovely, blue water you were launched ingives way to darker and darker blue.And finally, it&#39;s a rich lavender,and after a couple of thousand feet, it&#39;s ink black.And now you&#39;ve entered the realmof the mid-water community.
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:你可以举出很多例子关于那些栖息在海洋中部的生物。足够可以说明虽然毫无疑问，世界上最怪诞的以及最骇人的动物大都生活在这里，但是我们所认识到的远远不止这些，这里包含了我们地球上大约百分之九十五的生存空间那里我认为更为特别的海脊。
en:You could give an entire talkabout the creatures that live in the mid-water.Suffice to say though, as far as I&#39;m concerned,without question, the most bizarre designsand outrageous behaviorsare in the animals that live in the mid-water community.But we&#39;re just going to zip right past this area,this area that includes about 95 percentof the living space on our planetand go to the mid-ocean ridge, which I think is even more extraordinary.
时间： 8:38
zh-cn:海洋中部的海脊是一条巨大的山脉，有4000英里长，蜿蜒环绕整个地球。它们是庞大的山峦，有几千英尺高，其中的一些甚至高达成千上万英尺穿出了水面，夏威夷岛就是这样形成的。这个山脉的顶端炸裂开来，形成了一个地堑。当你潜入那个地堑中，你将来到一个非常刺激的地方因为理论上讲，数以千计的活火山在任何时候都有可能爆发，所有这4000英尺的范围。当这些构造板块分裂开来的时候，岩浆，熔岩会涌上来填满这些裂缝。所以你就可以亲眼目睹新大陆在你眼前生成。在它们的顶端是三到四千米深的水，这形成的巨大的压力会使水流沿着裂缝流向地球的中心，直到遇到岩浆储源，在那里它会被加热充分的被矿物质所浸透，开始逆流并且向地面喷射，被喷出地表，就像是黄石公园的地热喷泉。事实上，这整块地区就像是整个的黄石国家森林公园。
en:The mid-ocean ridge is a huge mountain range,40,000 miles long, snaking around the entire globe.And they&#39;re big mountains, thousands of feet tall,some of which are tens of thousands of feetand bust through the surface,creating islands like Hawaii.And the top of this mountain rangeis splitting apart, creating a rift valley.And when you dive into that rift valley, that&#39;s where the action isbecause literally thousands of active volcanoesare going off at any point in timeall along this 40,000 mile range.And as these tectonic plates are spreading apart,magma, lava is coming up and filling those gaps,and you&#39;re looking land — new land —being created right before your eyes.And over the tops of them is 3,000 to 4,000 meters of watercreating enormous pressure,forcing water down through the cracks toward the center of the earth,until it hits a magma chamberwhere it becomes superheatedand supersaturated with minerals,reverses its flow and starts shooting back to the surfaceand is ejected out of the earth like a geyser at Yellowstone.In fact, this whole areais like a Yellowstone National Park with all of the trimmings.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:喷出的水流大约有600到700华氏温度。而周围的水温只有零上几度。所以它立刻就被冷却了，不再蒸发其中所溶解的所有物质，以及所沉淀的东西，都形成了黑烟。这就形成了一些塔型和烟囱型的东西它们有10，20甚至30英尺高。并且沿着这些烟柱的边缘微微发出热量，孕育着生命。你已经了解所有地方的海底黑烟柱附近都生活着管状蠕虫它们可能有八到十英尺长。在这些管状蠕虫的上面是美丽的红色烟缕。生活在管状蠕虫周围的是一个完整的动物群落，例如虾，鱼，龙虾，螃蟹，蛤蜊以及大群的浮游生物它们在进行十分危险的游戏在沸水和冷水之间徘徊。
en:And this vent fluid is about 600 or 700 degrees F.The surrounding water is just a couple of degrees above freezing.So it immediately cools,and it can no longer hold in suspensionall of the material that it&#39;s dissolved,and it precipitates out, forming black smoke.And it forms these towers, these chimneysthat are 10, 20, 30 feet tall.And all along the sides of these chimneysis shimmering with heat and loaded with life.You&#39;ve got black smokers going all over the placeand chimneys that have tube wormsthat might be eight to 10 feet long.And out of the tops of these tube wormsare these beautiful red plumes.And living amongst the tangle of tube wormsis an entire community of animals:shrimp, fish, lobsters, crab,clams and swarms of arthropodsthat are playing that dangerous gamebetween over here is scalding hot and freezing cold.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:整个这个生态系统尚未被人所知直到33年之前。它的存在完全推翻了之前的科学依据。促使科学家们反思地球上生命的起源究竟是在哪里。在发现这些深海热泉以前，地球上所有生命的核心，都被认为依赖于太阳，依赖于光合作用，但是在大海深处，那里没有阳光，所以也不存在着光合作用。那里是一个化学合成的环境，生命是如此的短暂。当你拍摄下这个令人难以置信的深海热液喷口的时候，你会觉得仿佛置身于另一个星球之上。但是它却存在于地球，这真是太神奇了。就像是在一个陌生的环境中看到了外星生物。但是如果你八年后再次回到这个热液喷口，它可能已经彻底死亡了。不再有热水涌出。所有的生物都消失了。但是烟囱型的喷口还留在那里形成了一个非常神奇的鬼镇，一个怪诞的，幽灵般的鬼镇，没有任何生命的存在。但是在这条海脊10英里以下的地方...天哪！那有有另一个火山在喷发。并且已经形成了一整个新的热液喷口生命群落。这种生命群落的生命周期约为30到40年在所有这些海脊中。
en:And this whole ecosystemwasn&#39;t even known aboutuntil 33 years ago.And it completely threw science on its head.It made scientists rethinkwhere life on Earth might have actually begun.And before the discovery of these vents,all life on Earth, the key to life on Earth,was believed to be the sun and photosynthesis.But down there, there is no sun,there is no photosynthesis;it&#39;s chemosynthetic environment down there driving it,and it&#39;s all so ephemeral.You might film thisunbelievable hydrothermal vent,which you think at the time has to be on another planet.It&#39;s amazing to think that this is actually on earth;it looks like aliens in an alien environment.But you go back to the same vent eight years laterand it can be completely dead.There&#39;s no hot water.All of the animals are gone, they&#39;re dead,and the chimneys are still therecreating a really nice ghost town,an eerie, spooky ghost town,but essentially devoid of animals, of course.But 10 miles down the ridge...pshhh! There&#39;s another volcano going.And there&#39;s a whole new hydrothermal vent community that has been formed.And this kind of life and death of hydrothermal vent communitiesis going on every 30 or 40 yearsall along the ridge.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:在那个朝生暮死的自然环境里那些热液喷口生命群落与我之前看到的并没有真正的区别在我35年周游世界的拍摄生涯之中。当你出去拍摄一个非常棒的海湾结束之后，回到家里，你就会想：“很好，我看到它们了。啊，我知道在哪儿我可以拍摄到它们。这真是一个美丽的海湾，有着许多软体珊瑚和甲壳类生物。”而当你再次出现的时候，它们已经死了没有珊瑚，没有藻类，海水变得浑浊。你会思考：“到底发生了什么？”当你转过身，看见身后有一个山坡，上面是住宅区，推土机正在来回的推土。在那里即将兴建一座高尔夫球场。这里是热带经常会有暴雨降临。所以雨水淹没了山坡，夹带着建筑工地里的沉积物，让让珊瑚礁窒息，置它们于死地。化肥和农药从高尔夫球场流入这个海湾。杀虫剂杀死了所有的幼虫和小动物，化肥造成了浮游生物的大量繁殖。使得海水呈现出浓豌豆汤似的浑浊状态。
en:And that ephemeral natureof the hydrothermal vent communityisn&#39;t really different from some of theareas that I&#39;ve seenin 35 years of traveling around, making films.Where you go and film a really nice sequence at a bay.And you go back, and I&#39;m at home,and I&#39;m thinking, &quot;Okay, what can I shoot ...Ah! I know where I can shoot that.There&#39;s this beautiful bay, lots of soft corals and stomatopods.&quot;And you show up, and it&#39;s dead.There&#39;s no coral, algae growing on it, and the water&#39;s pea soup.You think, &quot;Well, what happened?&quot;And you turn around,and there&#39;s a hillside behind you with a neighborhood going in,and bulldozers are pushing piles of soil back and forth.And over herethere&#39;s a golf course going in.And this is the tropics.It&#39;s raining like crazy here.So this rainwater is flooding down the hillside,carrying with it sediments from the construction site,smothering the coral and killing it.And fertilizers and pesticidesare flowing into the bay from the golf course —the pesticides killing all the larvae and little animals,fertilizer creating this beautiful plankton bloom —and there&#39;s your pea soup.
时间：12:50
zh-cn:但是，令人鼓舞的是，我也注意到了一些好的现象。我曾经去过一个被人为破坏了的海湾。我当时看着它，叹了一口气“太糟糕了”就去了岛屿的另一边进行工作。五年之后，我又回到了这个地方，就是当初那一个海滩，她变得棒极了，非常漂亮。到处都是活着的珊瑚礁和鱼儿，和清澈的海水，你不禁会问：“究竟发生过什么？”这一切都要归功于当地社区所付出的努力。他们意识到了发生在山坡上的一切，并且进行了阻止，颁布了法令并且进行执照许可进行负责任的重建工作以及高尔夫球场的维修保养同时阻止了沉淀物不断流入海湾，还堵住了流入海湾的化学品，所以这个海湾获得了重生。海洋拥有神奇的能力进行自我修复，如果我们给它这样的机会。
en:But, encouragingly, I&#39;ve seen just the opposite.I&#39;ve been to a place that was a pretty trashed bay.And I looked at it, just said, &quot;Yuck,&quot;and go and work on the other side of the island.Five years later, come back,and that same bay is now gorgeous. It&#39;s beautiful.It&#39;s got living coral, fish all over the place,crystal clear water, and you go, &quot;How did that happen?&quot;Well, how it happened isthe local community galvanized.They recognized what was happening on the hillside and put a stop to it;enacted laws and made permits requiredto do responsible constructionand golf course maintenanceand stopped the sediments flowing into the bay,and stopped the chemicals flowing into the bay,and the bay recovered.The ocean has an amazing abilityto recover, if we&#39;ll just leave it alone.
时间：13:34
zh-cn:我认为Margaret Mead的话让我感触很深。她说一小部分有思想的人们能够有能力改变这个世界。的确，这是一个真理。正是有了那一小部分有思想的民众改变了那个海湾。我十分坚信普通民众们的力量。我参加过许多的演讲在每次演讲结束时人们首先提出的几个问题之一就是“但是，我可以做些什么呢？我只是一个个体，我只有一个人。而这些问题是如此的大和全球性，并且看上去势不可挡。”这是一个非常好的问题。
en:I think Margaret Meadsaid it best.She said that a small group of thoughtful peoplecould change the world.Indeed, it&#39;s the only thing that ever has.And a small group of thoughtful peoplechanged that bay.I&#39;m a big fan of grassroots organizations.I&#39;ve been to a lot of lectureswhere, at the end of it, inevitably,one of the first questions that comes up is,&quot;But, but what can I do?I&#39;m an individual. I&#39;m one person.And these problems are so large and global, and it&#39;s just overwhelming.&quot;Fair enough question.
时间：14:07
zh-cn:我的回答就是不要把它们看做是巨大而难以解决的全球性问题。可以站在你自己的立场来看待它们。认真的审视你的内心。你所真正关心的事情并不仅仅局限于你所居住的地方。开始去实践他。在你生活的周围创造出一个可以循环利用的环境并且鼓励别人也这样做。也许这些得以循环的小环境能够在地图上形成一些小的点。事实上，当今世界的通讯技术如此发达，身在阿拉斯加，就能立刻知道发生在中国的事情，新西兰人正在做什么以及在英国人们正在打算干什么...每一个人都可以与身在别处的人们交谈。我们不再是地图上面孤立的点，我们已经建立起来了一个网络。这样这些可循环的系统就能够开始成长，甚至可能重叠起来，成就一番事业。这就是我对这个问题的回答。站在你自己的立场上面想一想，换句话说，审视你自己。你究竟能够负起什么样的责任对于你正在从事的事情？就这样做下去，并且把它传播开来。那些在热液喷口生活着的动物们无能为力对于自己的生死所以它们别无选择，但是我们可以。从理论上说，我们能够思考，我们是理性的人类。我们可以改变我们自身的行为方式最终影响周围的环境，正如那些让海湾重获新生的人们。
en:My answer to that is don&#39;t lookat the big, overwhelming issues of the world.Look in your own backyard.Look in your heart, actually.What do you really care about that isn&#39;t right where you live?And fix it.Create a healing zone in your neighborhoodand encourage others to do the same.And maybe these healing zones can sprinkle a map,little dots on a map.And in fact, the way that we can communicate today —where Alaska is instantly knowing what&#39;s going on in China,and the Kiwis did this, and then over in England they tried to ...and everybody is talking to everyone else —it&#39;s not isolated points on a map anymore,it&#39;s a network we&#39;ve created.And maybe these healing zones can start growing,and possibly even overlap, and good things can happen.So that&#39;s how I answer that question.Look in your own backyard, in fact, look in the mirror.What can you do that is more responsiblethan what you&#39;re doing now?And do that, and spread the word.The vent community animalscan&#39;t really do muchabout the life and deaththat&#39;s going on where they live, but up here we can.In theory, we&#39;re thinking, rational human beings.And we can make changes to our behaviorthat will influence and affect the environment,like those people changed the health of that bay.
时间：15:22
zh-cn:Sylvia的TED演讲获奖感言是恳请我们尽自己所能，做任何可以做的事情，去阻止，而非加剧，并且大力传播保护海洋的意识，她称他们为“希望之点”，我为这个提议鼓掌，大声的鼓掌。我希望这些“希望之点”能够注意到大海的深处，那一个在历史上，被我们长时间所忽视的地方—我想到一个俚语，抛入大海。如果有一堆巨大并且有毒的垃圾，那就把它们扔进大海吧。但是如今，我希望我们也可以真正的关心一下我们的深海。我并不是在发表感言，但是我许诺我会尽我所能去支持Sylvia Earle的愿望。我会这样做的。
en:Now, Sylvia&#39;s TED Prize wishwas to beseech us to do anything we could,everything we could,to set aside not pin pricks,but significant expansesof the ocean for preservation,&quot;hope spots,&quot; she calls them.And I applaud that. I loudly applaud that.And it&#39;s my hope that some of these &quot;hope spots&quot;can be in the deep ocean,an area that has historicallybeen seriously neglected, if not abused.The term &quot;deep six&quot; comes to mind:&quot;If it&#39;s too big or too toxic for a landfill,deep six it!&quot;So, I hope that we can also keepsome of these &quot;hope spots&quot; in the deep sea.Now, I don&#39;t get a wish,but I certainly can saythat I will do anything I canto support Sylvia Earle&#39;s wish.And that I do.
时间：16:17
zh-cn:谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:Thank you very much. (Applause)
