时间： 0:16
zh-cn:20世纪80年代在共产主义的东德，如果你有一台打字机，你就得去跟政府登记。你必须登记出自那台打字机的一份文本的样本。这样做后，政府就能跟踪文本出自何方。如果他们发现一张纸上写着错误的观点，他们就能跟踪是谁产生这样的观点。而在西方我们不能理解有人怎么能做这种事，这将会多么限制言论自由啊。我们永远不会在我们自己的国家里这样做。
en:In the 1980sin the communist Eastern Germany,if you owned a typewriter,you had to register it with the government.You had to registera sample sheet of textout of the typewriter.And this was doneso the government could track where text was coming from.If they found a paperwhich had the wrong kind of thought,they could track downwho created that thought.And we in the Westcouldn&#39;t understand how anybody could do this,how much this would restrict freedom of speech.We would never do thatin our own countries.
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:可是，2011年的今天，如果你从任何一家大型的激光打印机厂商买一台彩色激光打印机打印出一页，这页纸最后会有一些小黄点印在每一页上图案让这页纸是独特对你和你的打印机都是。这就是今天发生在我们身上的。似乎没有人为此大惊小怪。这是个展示我们的政府使用科技来对付我们这些公民们的例子。这是今天网络问题的三大来源之一。
en:But today in 2011,if you go and buy a color laser printerfrom any major laser printer manufacturerand print a page,that page will end uphaving slight yellow dotsprinted on every single pagein a pattern which makes the page uniqueto you and to your printer.This is happeningto us today.And nobody seems to be making a fuss about it.And this is an exampleof the waysthat our own governmentsare using technologyagainst us, the citizens.And this is one of the main three sourcesof online problems today.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:如果我们看一下在线世界到底发生了什么，我们根据攻击者来分组。我们有三个主要的组。我们有在线罪犯。这里，我们有位德米特里 戈卢博夫（Dimitry Golubov）先生来自乌克兰的基辅市。在线罪犯的动机非常容易理解。这些家伙为了赚钱。他们通过在线攻击赚很多钱，很多很多钱。我们实际上有好几个案子都是在线百万富翁，千万富翁，都是通过在线攻击赚的。这里还有来自爱沙尼亚的塔尔图的弗拉基米尔·莎斯森。这位是阿尔弗雷德·冈萨雷斯（Alfred Gonzalez）。这是斯蒂芬·瓦特 （Stephen Watt）这是比昂·松丁（Bjorn Sundin）这是马修·安德森（ Matthew Anderson），塔利克·阿尔杜（Tariq Al-Daour）等等等等。
en:If we take a look at what&#39;s really happening in the online world,we can group the attacks based on the attackers.We have three main groups.We have online criminals.Like here, we have Mr. Dimitry Golubovfrom the city of Kiev in Ukraine.And the motives of online criminalsare very easy to understand.These guys make money.They use online attacksto make lots of money,and lots and lots of it.We actually have several casesof millionaires online, multimillionaires,who made money with their attacks.Here&#39;s Vladimir Tsastsin form Tartu in Estonia.This is Alfred Gonzalez.This is Stephen Watt.This is Bjorn Sundin.This is Matthew Anderson, Tariq Al-Daourand so on and so on.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:这些人在线挣了很多钱，但他们挣的钱是非法的通过使用类似银行木马从我们账户偷钱当我们在网上进行银行业务，或者使用键盘记录来收集我们的信用卡信息当我们通过被感染的电脑来在线购物的时候。美国情报局，两个月前，冻结了萨姆 杰恩先生在瑞士的银行账户，那个账户冻结的时候帐上有一千四百九十万美金。杰恩先生本人仍逍遥法外；没人知道他在哪。今天我断言我们当中的任何一位都有可能成为在线犯罪的受害者甚至超越现实世界。而且很显然这种情况越来越糟。将来，大多数的犯罪会发生在线上。
en:These guysmake their fortunes online,but they make it through the illegal meansof using things like banking trojansto steal money from our bank accountswhile we do online banking,or with keyloggersto collect our credit card informationwhile we are doing online shopping from an infected computer.The U.S. Secret Service,two months ago,froze the Swiss bank accountof Mr. Sam Jain right here,and that bank account had 14.9 million U.S. dollars on itwhen it was frozen.Mr. Jain himself is on the loose;nobody knows where he is.And I claim it&#39;s already todaythat it&#39;s more likely for any of usto become the victim of a crime onlinethan here in the real world.And it&#39;s very obviousthat this is only going to get worse.In the future, the majority of crimewill be happening online.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:第二类主要的攻击集团我们今天观察的不是出于金钱。他们的动机源于别处 —出于抗议，出于发表意见，出于被嘲笑过。这些匿名集团在过去的12个月中很活跃并且变成了在线攻击领域的主要的参与者
en:The second major group of attackersthat we are watching todayare not motivated by money.They&#39;re motivated by something else —motivated by protests,motivated by an opinion,motivated by the laughs.Groups like Anonymoushave risen up over the last 12 monthsand have become a major playerin the field of online attacks.
时间： 4:11
zh-cn:这些就是三组主要的攻击者：为了钱的罪犯，匿名的攻击活跃者为了抗议而作的，而最后一组是民族国家，政府在攻击。我们看一下例子就像DigiNotar公司发生的。这是政府攻击的典型例子来反对自己的民众。DigiNotar是荷兰的一个权威证书或者说它曾经是。它去年秋天遭遇破产因为他们遭到入侵。有人闯进去彻底毁了它。我上周在与荷兰政府代表开会时问过，我问一位领导是否他发现有可能有人会因为Diginotar攻击而死亡。他的回答是肯定的。
en:So those are the three main attackers:criminals who do it for the money,hacktivists like Anonymousdoing it for the protest,but then the last group are nation states,governments doing the attacks.And then we look at caseslike what happened in DigiNotar.This is a prime example of what happenswhen governments attackagainst their own citizens.DigiNotar is a Certificate Authorityfrom The Netherlands —or actually, it was.It was running into bankruptcylast fallbecause they were hacked into.Somebody broke inand they hacked it thoroughly.And I asked last weekin a meeting with Dutch government representatives,I asked one of the leaders of the teamwhether he found plausiblethat people diedbecause of the DigiNotar hack.And his answer was yes.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:那么，究竟如何人们的死亡归咎于这样一个攻击呢？DigiNotar是一个权威证书。他们卖证书。你用证书做什么？你需要证书的情况会是你有一个有https的网站，SSL加密服务，类似Gmail的服务。当今我们所有人或大部分人，使用Gmail或它对手们中的任何一家，这些服务在极权主义国家尤其流行比如伊朗，持异议者使用诸如Gmail的国外服务因为他们知道这些比当地的服务更可靠他们通过SSL的连接加密，所以当地政府窥探不到他们的讨论。他们也能，如果他们攻击了一个国外权威证书，出具伪劣证书。这恰恰就是发生在DigiNotar的案子中。
en:So how do people dieas the result of a hack like this?Well DigiNotar is a C.A.They sell certificates.What do you do with certificates?Well you need a certificateif you have a website that has https,SSL encrypted services,services like Gmail.Now we all, or a big part of us,use Gmail or one of their competitors,but these services are especially popularin totalitarian stateslike Iran,where dissidentsuse foreign services like Gmailbecause they know they are more trustworthy than the local servicesand they are encrypted over SSL connections,so the local government can&#39;t snoopon their discussions.Except they can if they hack into a foreign C.A.and issue rogue certificates.And this is exactly what happenedwith the case of DigiNotar.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:阿拉伯跳是怎么回事？比如说在埃及发生的那些事？在埃及，暴徒们洗劫了埃及秘密警察的总部那是2011年4月，他们洗劫时找到很多文件。在这些文件中，有一个名叫FINFISHER的夹子。夹子中有些笔记是来自一家德国公司这家公司卖给埃及政府一套工具用来截取—很大比例是国家公众的所有通信。他们把这套工具以28万欧元卖给埃及政府。公司的总部就在那里。
en:What about Arab Springand things that have been happening, for example, in Egypt?Well in Egypt,the rioters looted the headquartersof the Egyptian secret policein April 2011,and when they were looting the building they found lots of papers.Among those papers,was this binder entitled &quot;FINFISHER.&quot;And within that binder were notesfrom a company based in Germanywhich had sold the Egyptian governmenta set of toolsfor intercepting —and in very large scale —all the communication of the citizens of the country.They had sold this toolfor 280,000 Euros to the Egyptian government.The company headquarters are right here.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:所以，西方政府给极权政府提供工具来反对他们自己的民众。但西方政府也同样对他们自己这样做。比如，在德国，就是几周前发现一个叫Scuinst Trojan 的木马病毒被德国政府官方用来调查他们自己的民众。如果你是一宗刑事案件的嫌疑，很显然，你的电话会被监听。可是今天，事情已经超越了。他们会监视你的网络连接。他们会用类似Scuinst Trojan的工具用一个木马来感染你的电脑，这样就让他们监视你所有的通信，监听你的在线讨论，收集你的密码。
en:So Western governmentsare providing totalitarian governments with toolsto do this against their own citizens.But Western governments are doing it to themselves as well.For example, in Germany,just a couple of weeks agothe so-called State Trojan was found,which was a trojanused by German government officialsto investigate their own citizens.If you are a suspect in a criminal case,well it&#39;s pretty obvious, your phone will be tapped.But today, it goes beyond that.They will tap your Internet connection.They will even use tools like State Trojanto infect your computer with a trojan,which enables themto watch all your communication,to listen to your online discussions,to collect your passwords.
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:当我们更深的想一下这些事情，人们的反应显然应是“对啊，听起来很糟糕，但因为我是合法公民，也不会真正影响我啦。为什么我要担忧呢？我没有什么可隐藏的。”这就是争论所在，没什么道理。隐私是不言而喻。隐私用不着讨论。这不是个隐私反对安全的问题。而是一个自由反对管制的问题。我们2011年的当下会信任我们的政府，我们放弃的任何权力会永远失去。我们会不会信任未来的政府，盲目地信任，一个50年后的政府呢？这些就是我们要为下一个50年而担忧的问题。
en:Now when we think deeperabout things like these,the obvious response from people should bethat, &quot;Okay, that sounds bad,but that doesn&#39;t really affect me because I&#39;m a legal citizen.Why should I worry?Because I have nothing to hide.&quot;And this is an argument,which doesn&#39;t make sense.Privacy is implied.Privacy is not up for discussion.This is not a questionbetween privacyagainst security.It&#39;s a question of freedomagainst control.And while we might trust our governmentsright now, right here in 2011,any right we give away will be given away for good.And do we trust, do we blindly trust,any future government,a government we might have50 years from now?And these are the questionsthat we have to worry about for the next 50 years.
