时间： 0:11
zh-cn:印度有很多大家族，相信大家有所耳闻。大家族就有很多大型家族活动。我小的时候常被父母拖过去参加。
en:In India, we have these huge families.I bet a lot of you allmust have heard about it.Which means that there area lot of family events.So as a child, my parentsused to drag me to these family events.
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:但我唯一想做的就是，找我亲戚玩。以前那里总有一个叔叔，经常做好了准备和我们一起跳，陪我们玩，陪我们度过了快乐的时光。这个人及其的成功：自信、有能力。但是随后这个健壮精神的人生了病，被诊断为帕金森综合征。
en:But the one thingthat I always looked forward towas playing around with my cousins.And there was always this one unclewho used to be there,always ready, jumping around with us,having games for us,making us kids have the time of our lives.This man was extremely successful:he was confident and powerful.But then I saw this hale and hearty persondeteriorate in health.He was diagnosed with Parkinson&#39;s.
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:帕金森综合征会引发神经系统退化，意味着一个过去独立的人突然因为颤抖 连喝咖啡都变得非常困难。我的叔叔开始使用拐杖行走，想要拐弯，就必须像这样一点一点地走，要花很久的时间。所以一个以前每次家庭聚会上都成为焦点的男人，突然躲在了大家的后面。他在躲避大家怜悯的目光。
en:Parkinson&#39;s is a disease that causesdegeneration of the nervous system,which means that this personwho used to be independentsuddenly finds tasks like drinking coffee,because of tremors, much more difficult.My uncle started using a walker to walk,and to take a turn,he literally had to takeone step at a time, like this,and it took forever.So this person, who used to bethe center of attentionin every family gathering,was suddenly hiding behind people.He was hiding from the pitiful lookin people&#39;s eyes.
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:他并不孤单，每年60000人被新诊断为帕金森综合征，而且以后会更多。作为设计者，我们希望我们的设计可以解决多方面的问题，一个方法就能一劳永逸，但往往事与愿违。你也可以通过解决一系列小问题，最终产生重大的影响。所以我的重点不是治愈帕金森综合征，而是让病人每天更轻松，最后产生影响。
en:And he&#39;s not the only one in the world.Every year, 60,000 peopleare newly diagnosed with Parkinson&#39;s,and this number is only rising.As designers, we dream that our designssolve these multifaceted problems,one solution that solves it all,but it need not always be like that.You can also target simple problemsand create small solutions for themand eventually make a big impact.So my aim here wasto not cure Parkinson&#39;s,but to make their everyday tasksmuch more simple,and then make an impact.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:那么第一个要解决的问题就是颤抖，对吧？叔叔告诉我他为了防止引起尴尬，已经不在公共场合喝咖啡或者茶了。所以我设计了防洒杯，通过设计一个样式达到目的。每次使用者颤抖时，顶部的曲线可以让液体流回杯子从而达到不会洒的目的。更关键的是它不会被贴上帕金森综合征患者产品的标签。它就像一个你，我 ，每个笨手笨脚的人都会使用的杯子 ，这会让病人更好的融入社会。所以第一个问题解决了，后面还有很多。
en:Well, the first thing I targetedwas tremors, right?My uncle told me that he had stoppeddrinking coffee or tea in publicjust out of embarrassment,so, well, I designed the no-spill cup.It works just purely on its form.The curve on top deflects the liquidback inside every time they have tremors,and this keeps the liquid insidecompared to a normal cup.But the key here is that it is not taggedas a Parkinson&#39;s patient product.It looks like a cup that could be usedby you, me, any clumsy person,and that makes it much more comfortingfor them to use, to blend in.So, well, one problem solved,many more to go.
时间： 2:57
zh-cn:这一阵我一直在采访他，询问他，后来我发现我只得到了很表面的信息，或只是简单地回答我问的问题。但我真的需要再深入一点，看能不能理出新的头绪。我想从观察他的日常生活开始，观察他吃饭和看电视。当我看到他走去餐桌吃饭的时候，我震惊地发现，他就连在平地上行走都是很困难的，更何况去爬楼梯。在印度没有像其他发达国家一样，电梯可以帮你上楼，大家都要爬楼梯。他跟我说，我给你看我怎么上楼。请看我所看到的情况：
en:All this while, I was interviewing him,questioning him,and then I realized that I was gettingvery superficial information,or just answers to my questions.But I really needed to dig deeperto get a new perspective.So I thought, well,let&#39;s observe him in his daily tasks,while he&#39;s eating, while he&#39;s watching TV.And then, when I was actuallyobserving him walking to his dining table,it struck me, this man who finds itso difficult to walk on flat land,how does he climb a staircase?Because in India we do not havea fancy rail that takes you up a staircaselike in the developed countries.One actually has to climb the stairs.So he told me,&quot;Well, let me show you how I do it.&quot;Let&#39;s take a look at what I saw.
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:他花了很长的时间走到了这个位置，这段时间我一直在想：”天啊，他真的要这么做么？他真的要不用拐杖走楼梯么？”然后……
en:So he took really longto reach this position,and then all this while, I&#39;m thinking,&quot;Oh my God, is he really going to do it?Is he really, really going to do itwithout his walker?&quot;And then ...
时间： 4:01
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:然后他很轻松的转弯。
en:And the turns, he took them so easily.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:所以，震惊了么？我也震惊了。一个不能在平地上走路的人，爬楼梯却非常顺利。
en:So — shocked?Well, I was too.So this person who could notwalk on flat landwas suddenly a pro at climbing stairs.
时间： 4:24
zh-cn:通过研究，我了解到这是因为爬楼梯是一系列的动作。另一个同样使用拐杖的帕金森综合征患者只要骑上自行车所有的症状都消失了，也是因为这是连续性的动作。所以问题的关键就是我如何把爬楼梯的感觉移植到平地上去。我在他的身上尝试了很多想法，我们看一下最终成功的想法。
en:On researching this, I realized thatit&#39;s because it&#39;s a continuous motion.There&#39;s this other manwho also suffers from the same symptomsand uses a walker,but the moment he&#39;s put on a cycle,all his symptoms vanish,because it is a continuous motion.So the key for me was to translatethis feeling of walking on a staircaseback to flat land.And a lot of ideaswere tested and tried on him,but the one that finally workedwas this one. Let&#39;s take a look.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:他走得快一点了，是吧？
en:He walked faster, right?
时间： 5:05
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:我把它称为阶梯假象。实际上，当阶梯假象突然结束了，他就会停住了。这叫做步态冻结，这经常发生。那为什么不让屋子充满阶梯假象，让他们感到更加自信？科技并不是一切。我们需要以人为本的解决方案。我本可以在谷歌眼镜或者别的什么上做一个阶梯的投影，但是我对地板上的印花思考了很久。医院可以采用这个印花让医院更受病人的欢迎。
en:I call this the staircase illusion,and actually when the staircase illusionabruptly ended, he froze,and this is called freezing of gait.So it happens a lot,so why not have a staircase illusionflowing through all their rooms,making them feel much more confident?You know, technology is not always it.What we need are human-centered solutions.I could have easilymade it into a projection,or a Google Glass, or something like that.But I stuck to simple print on the floor.This print could be taken into hospitalsto make them feel much more welcome.
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:我想做到让所有的帕金森综合征的病人都感受到我叔叔那天的感觉。他跟我说我让他感觉做回了自己。
en:What I wish to dois make every Parkinson&#39;s patientfeel like my uncle felt that day.He told me that I made him feellike his old self again.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:&quot;智能&quot; 现在和高科技已经变成了同义词，世界每一天都变得更加智能。但是为什么智能的东西不能是简单而且有效的呢？我们需要的只是同理心和好奇心，到现场观察。但我们不要固步不前，让我们解决一些复杂的问题而不是被它吓到。各个击破，把大问题打碎成一个个小问题，再找到小问题的答案。尝试找到答案，如果失败了，就用新的视角尝试更好的办法。想象如果我们可以想到简单的解决方案我们能做得多好。如果我们把简单的方案连在一起这个世界将会如何？让我们使用简单的方式，让世界更智能。
en:&quot;Smart&quot; in today&#39;s worldhas become synonymous to high tech,and the world is only gettingsmarter and smarter day by day.But why can&#39;t smart be somethingthat&#39;s simple and yet effective?All we need is a little bit of empathyand some curiosity,to go out there, observe.But let&#39;s not stop at that.Let&#39;s find these complex problems.Don&#39;t be scared of them.Break them, boil them downinto much smaller problems,and then find simple solutions for them.Test these solutions, fail if needed,but with newer insights to make it better.Imagine what we all could doif we all came up with simple solutions.What would the world be likeif we combined all our simple solutions?Let&#39;s make a smarter world,but with simplicity.
时间： 6:46
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
