时间： 0:11
zh-cn:现在是非常糟糕的经济时期各位TED的朋友，真的是非常糟糕经济时期所以，我想让你们振奋一下用一个在过去20年中大多数人都不知道的成功的商业故事他们用他们自己的方式他们有他们特别的方式™如今，它正冷静的应对着当前的金融危机我指的是有组织犯罪
en:These are grim economic times,fellow TEDsters, grim economic times indeed.And so, I would like to cheer you upwith one of the great, albeit largely unknown,commercial success storiesof the past 20 years.Comparable, in its own very peculiar way,to the achievements of Microsoft or Google.And it&#39;s an industry which has bucked the current recessionwith equanimity.I refer to organized crime.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:如你所知，从很久以前开始有组织犯罪就已经存在于我们身边了事实确实就是这个样子但是在过去的20年中它以难以想象的速度扩张着如今它已经占到了世界GDP的近15%我更愿意称之为”全球地下经济“或者简称”McMafia“（麦克黑手党），
en:Now organized crime has been aroundfor a very long time, I hear you say,and these would be wise words, indeed.But in the last two decades,it has experienced an unprecedented expansion,now accounting for roughly 15 percentof the world&#39;s GDP.I like to call it the Global Shadow Economy,or McMafia, for short.
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:那么，是什么引起了这种跨国行犯罪的异常增长呢？当然，这其中有全球化，科技进步，通讯发展等等方面的原因这些我们等会儿会谈到但是首先，我想带各位回顾一下这个事件东欧共产主义解体。整个东欧在第二次世界大战后经历的最重要的一章
en:So what triggered this extraordinary growthin cross-border crime?Well, of course, there is globalization,technology, communications, all that stuff,which we&#39;ll talk about a little bit later.But first, I would like to take you backto this event:the collapse of communism.All across Eastern Europe, a most momentous episodein our post-war history.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:现在是时候大白于天下了。这件事对我个人来说非常重要。我曾经为走私书籍横跨铁幕（当时共产主义和资本主义的欧洲分界线）运到东欧的民主反对党比如波兰的团结工会等等当时我是十几岁后来我开始写一些关于东欧的东西并最终成为了 BBC驻这一地区的通讯主管这些是我在1989年做的事情当4.25亿人最终获得了选择他们政府的权利的时候我欣喜若狂但是我也开始担心一些潜在着的令人烦心的事情。
en:Now it&#39;s time for full disclosure.This event meant a great deal to me personally.I had started smuggling books across the Iron Curtainto Democratic opposition groups in Eastern Europe,like Solidarity in Poland,when I was in my teens.I then started writing about Eastern Europe,and eventually I became the BBC&#39;s chief correspondent for the region,which is what I was doing in 1989.And so when 425 million peoplefinally won the rightto choose their own governments,I was ecstatic,but I was also a touch worriedabout some of the nastier thingslurking behind the wall.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:举例来说，这离之前南斯拉夫的种族主义血腥上台并不太久在那种混乱与兴奋的环境中我花了一段时间才了解到那些在东欧1989年之前已经掌握特殊权利的人，在革命之后继续在那里掌控着他们的权利。显然有些是大人物，像是...不过也有一些我们想不到的人物正影响着东欧的改变
en:It wasn&#39;t long, for example,before ethnic nationalismreared its bloody headin Yugoslavia.And amongst the chaos,amidst the euphoria,it took me a little while to understandthat some of the people who had wielded powerbefore 1989, in Eastern Europe,continued to do so after the revolutions there.Obviously there were characters like this.But there were also some more unexpected peoplewho played a critical role in what was going on in Eastern Europe.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:像是这一位。还记得这些人吗？他们经常在四年一次的奥运会上赢得举重和摔跤的金牌在共产主义国家里，他们是社会名流过着奢华的生活在市中心拥有高档的公寓也有美酒佳人作陪他们可以自由的到西方国家旅行这在当时简直奢华到了极点这可能出乎人的意料，但是他们扮演了一个很重要的角色在这个市场经济危机中在东欧。或者我更愿意称他们为资本主义的接生婆这是在1989年变化之后保加利亚的
en:Like this character. Remember these guys?They used to win the gold medals in weightliftingand wrestling, every four years in the Olympics,and they were the great celebrities of communism,with a fabulous lifestyle to go with it.They used to get great apartments in the center of town,casual sex on tap,and they could travel to the West very freely,which was a great luxury at the time.It may come as a surprise, but they played a critical rolein the emergence of the market economyin Eastern Europe.Or as I like to call them, they arethe midwives of capitalism.Here are some of those same weightliftersafter their 1989 makeover.
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:举重选手这些照片是在保加利亚拍的当东欧共产主义国家垮台时垮的不只是共产主义政府机制也垮了也就是说警察和治安没了法律系统无法正常运作在这样的情况下，一个商人应该如何在混乱的东欧的资本主义市场中确保自己合约的有效性？事实上，他可能会去求助于那些被社会学家称之为 “私人法律强制执行机构”我们通常称他们为黑手党。在保加利亚，黑手党很快的聚结了1万4千人被聚集的都是1989到1991年间在治安管理行业丢了工作的人
en:Now in Bulgaria —this photograph was taken in Bulgaria —when communism collapsed all over Eastern Europe,it wasn&#39;t just communism;it was the state that collapsed as well.That means your police force wasn&#39;t working.The court system wasn&#39;t functioning properly.So what was a business man in the brave new worldof East European capitalism going to doto make sure that his contracts would be honored?Well, he would turn to people who were called, rather prosaicallyby sociologists, privatized law enforcement agencies.We prefer to know them as the mafia.And in Bulgaria, the mafia was soon joinedwith 14,000 peoplewho were sacked from their jobs in the security servicesbetween 1989 and 1991.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:现在，当你的政府垮台了经济正在急速下滑劳工市场绝不会是这1万四千人愿意去的地方。他们擅长的是监视走私，建立地下秩序和杀人。但是当时整个东欧都是这样在90年代，我工作的大部分时间都花在了报道那些南斯拉夫严重的武装冲突上
en:Now, when your state is collapsing,your economy is heading south at a rate of knots,the last people you want coming on to the labor marketare 14,000 men and women whose chief skillsare surveillance,are smuggling, building underground networksand killing people.But that&#39;s what happened all over Eastern Europe.Now, when I was working in the 1990s,I spent most of the time coveringthe appalling conflict in Yugoslavia.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:于是我渐渐发现犯下那些骇人暴行的人和这些准军事机构都实际上是那同一群掌控着有组织的犯罪集团的人所以我开始思考在这暴力后面隐藏着的一个危险的犯罪集团。然后我决心环游世界探查全球的地下犯罪通过与警察交谈与受害人交谈，与那些非法商品和服务的购买者们交谈除此之外,还会直接与罪犯们交谈
en:And I couldn&#39;t help noticethat the people who were perpetrating the appalling atrocities,the paramilitary organizations,were actually the same people runningthe organized criminal syndicates.And I came to think that behind the violencelay a sinister criminal enterprise.And so I resolved to travel around the worldexamining this global criminal underworldby talking to policemen,by talking to victims, by talking to consumersof illicit goods and services.But above all else, by talking to the gangsters themselves.
时间： 5:41
zh-cn:巴尔干地区是一个适合开始调查的地方为什么呢？因为显然那里的法律和秩序已经崩溃另外，像零售行业中所说的，关键是位置，位置，位置刚开始我发现的是巴尔干已成为一个大型中转区非法物资来源于世界各地海洛因，可卡因女人被非法卖到卖淫集团还有稀有的矿物
en:And the Balkans was a fabulous place to start.Why? Well of coursethere was the issue of law and order collapsing,but also, as they say in the retail trade,it&#39;s location, location, location.And what I noticed at the beginning of my researchthat the Balkans had turned into a vast transit zonefor illicit goods and services coming from all over the world.Heroin, cocaine,women being trafficked into prostitutionand precious minerals.
时间： 6:11
zh-cn:这些东西最终运向什么地方？目的地是欧盟欧盟过去一直因为全球化而获利于是犯罪慢慢转型到这个历史上最富足的消费市场涵盖了5亿人口的市场在这5亿人中有很少但很重要的一批人他们愿意花点些时间和闲钱跟妓女上床用50欧元的钞票插到鼻子里面（吸毒）雇佣非法移民劳工
en:And where were they heading?The European Union, which by nowwas beginning to reap the benefits of globalization,transforming it intothe most affluent consumer market in history,eventually comprising some 500 million people.And a significant minorityof those 500 million peoplelike to spend some of their leisure time and spare cashsleeping with prostitutes,sticking 50 Euro notes up their noseand employing illegal migrant laborers.
时间： 6:43
zh-cn:在世界全球化的今天，有组织犯罪使用和其他大企业一样的运作模式它拥有很多生产地区，像阿富汗和哥伦比亚它有自己的发货区域像墨西哥和巴尔干地区然后，当然，还有它的消费区像欧盟，日本当然 ，还有美国生产区域和发货区域趋向于在发展中世界他们都经常被严重的暴力和流血事件威胁
en:Now, organized crime in a globalizing worldoperates in the same way as any other business.It has zones of production,like Afghanistan and Columbia.It has zones of distribution,like Mexico and the Balkans.And then, of course, it has zones of consumption,like the European Union, Japanand of course, the United States.The zones of production and distributiontend to lie in the developing world,and they are often threatened by appalling violenceand bloodshed.
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:拿墨西哥来说在过去18个月中，就有6000人被杀这些都直接归因于可卡因的交易那么民主刚果共和国怎么样呢？从1998年起，5百万人已经死亡这不是一个你在报纸上可以读到的冲突但这是自二战以来在我们星球上发生的最大的冲突为什么会这样 ？ 因为来自世界各地的黑手党与地方军事武装合作为了控制富矿在地区上的供应权。
en:Take Mexico, for example.Six thousand people killed there in the last 18 monthsas a direct consequence of the cocaine trade.But what about the Democratic Republic of Congo?Since 1998, five million people have died there.It&#39;s not a conflict you read about much in the newspapers,but it&#39;s the biggest conflict on this planetsince the Second World War.And why is it? Because mafias from all around the worldcooperate with local paramilitariesin order to seize the suppliesof the rich mineral resourcesof the region.
时间： 8:01
zh-cn:在2000年，世界上80％的钶钽铁矿都来源于刚果共和国东部的杀戮地区你可以在基本上每部手机上发现钶钽铁矿还有笔记本电脑上和游戏机控制器上刚果的战争头目把这些东西卖给黑手党去交换武器然后黑手党把这些东西卖到西方市场这是西方市场所需要的所消耗的这就是全球组织犯罪的主要动机
en:In the year 2000, 80 percent of the world&#39;s coltanwas sourced to the killing fieldsof the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo.Now, coltan you will find in almost every mobile phone,in almost every laptopand games console.The Congolese war lords were selling this stuff to the mafiain exchange for weapons,and the mafia would then sell it on to Western markets.And it is this Western desireto consumethat is the primary driverof international organized crime.
时间： 8:38
zh-cn:现在，就让我向你们展示一些我的正在行动中的朋友，他们正巧被意大利警察拍到了影片中他们在走私逃税香烟现在，工厂生产的香烟非常便宜但欧盟要求他们付世界上最高的税。所以如果你可以走私香烟进欧盟就能赚到极高的利润我想向各位展示一下这些团体拥有着何等的资源
en:Now, let me show you some of my friends in action,caught conveniently on film by the Italian police,and smuggling duty-not-paid cigarettes.Now, cigarettes out the factory gate are very cheap.The European Union then imposes the highest taxes on them in the world.So if you can smuggle them into the E.U.,there are very handsome profits to be made,and I want to show you this to demonstratethe type of resources available to these groups.
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:这艘船的造价是100万欧元欧洲再没有什么跑得比它快了从1994年开始，一共7年，20艘这样的船曾经成功的穿越过亚得里亚海，每天晚上从黑山到意大利。这个交易导致英国损失了80亿美元的收入而这些钱被用在了南斯拉夫战争中还进了一些黑心商人的腰包
en:This boat is worth one million Euros when it&#39;s new.And it&#39;s the fastest thing on European waters.From 1994, for seven years,20 of these boatsmade the trip across the Adriatic,from Montenegro to Italy, every single night.And as a consequence of this trade,Britain alone lost eight billion dollars in revenue.And instead that money went to underwrite the wars in Yugoslaviaand line the pockets of unscrupulous individuals.
时间： 9:40
zh-cn:这种交易刚刚开始的时候，意大利警方只有两艘警舰可以跟他们跑得一样快这很重要，因为唯一抓住他们的方法就是让他们跑到没汽油有时候黑手党会带着被拐来卖淫的女人如果警察干预，他们会把这些女人抛入大海所以警察必须去救这些人，而不是继续追赶，
en:Now Italian police, when this trade started,had just two boats which could go at the same speed.And this is very important, because the only way you can catch these guysis if they run out of gas.Sometimes the gangsters would bring with themwomen being trafficked into prostitution,and if the police intervened, they would hurlthe women into the seaso that the police had to go and save them from drowning,rather than chasing the bad guys.
时间：10:08
zh-cn:给各位看这些是想说明需要多少船，多少快艇才能抓到这些人答案是6艘要知道，有20艘这样的快船每晚穿梭在亚得里亚海上罪犯把挣到的钱都用在什么地方了呢？
en:So I have shown you this to demonstratehow many boats, how many vessels it takesto catch one of these guys.And the answer is six vessels.And remember, 20 of these speed boatswere coming across the Adriaticevery single night.So what were these guys doing with all the money they were making?
时间：10:28
zh-cn:这就要提到全球化问题了因为这不只是破坏世界交易规定还有世界金融市场的自由化老实说，洗钱实在是太容易了过去的20年是一个值得用香槟庆祝的时代对于黑钱来说
en:Well, this is where we come to globalization,because that was not just the deregulation of global trade.It was the liberalization of international financial markets.And boy, did that make it easyfor the money launderers.The last two decades have been the champagne erafor dirty lucre.
时间：10:48
zh-cn:自1990以来，我们看见世界各地的金融中心们为它们的生意互相竞争然而却没有一个有效地机制去防止洗钱活动而且很多合法的银行也乐于接受存款尽管来源非常可疑也不会问任何问题
en:In the 1990s, we saw financial centers around the worldcompeting for their business,and there was simply no effective mechanismto prevent money laundering.And a lot of licit banks were also happyto accept depositsfrom very dubious sourceswithout questions being asked.
时间：11:10
zh-cn:这些问题的根源在于跨国银行网络现在这些事情已经成为洗钱狂潮的核心部分如果你想阻止非法避税国际化有组织犯罪、洗钱你就必须摆脱它们好消息是，白宫里有些还在坚持提出反对这些腐化的集团
en:But at the heart of this, is the offshore banking network.Now these thingsare an essential part of the money laundering parade,and if you want to do something about illegal tax evasionand transnational organized crime, money laundering,you have to get rid of them.On a positive note, we at last have someone in the White Housewho has consistently spoken outagainst these corrosive entities.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:如果有任何人跟我一样关心这样的问题注意最重要的事情是对于新的法律，规定，有效的规则让我们看看Bernie Madoff他将在监狱中度过他的余生Bernie Madoff偷了650亿美元这使他成为了可以比肩哥伦比亚三大贩毒集团和主要俄罗斯犯罪组织的地位最高的黑手党不同的是，他这样做了几十年而且就在华尔街深处没有任何规则可以将他找出来所以华尔街上还有多少个Madoffs在华尔街？或者在伦敦伪装成普通人继续洗着钱？我可以告诉各位，真的很多
en:And if anyone is concerned about what I believeis the necessity fornew legislation, regulation, effective regulation,I say, let&#39;s take a look at Bernie Madoff,who is now going to be spending the rest of his life in jail.Bernie Madoff stole 65 billion dollars.That puts him up there on the Olympus of gangsterswith the Colombian cartelsand the major Russian crime syndicates,but he did this for decadesin the very heart of Wall Street,and no regulator picked up on it.So how many other Madoffs are there on Wall Streetor in the city of London,fleecing ordinary folkand money laundering?Well I can tell you, it&#39;s quite a few of them.
时间：12:31
zh-cn:让我们来一个“有组织犯罪入门”吧毒品。这是我们今早展示的第二张大麻工厂的照片这张照片，是我在不列颠哥伦比亚省中部拍摄到的它只是成千上万的不列颠哥伦比亚的家庭毒品农场之一全省GDP的5%以上都是靠这项生意提供的
en:Let me go on to the 101 of international organized crime now.And that is narcotics. Our second marijuana farm photograph for the morning.This one, however, is in central British Columbiawhere I photographed it.It&#39;s one of the tens of thousandsof mom-and-pop grow-ops in B.C.which ensure that over five percentof the province&#39;s GDP is accounted for by this trade.
时间：12:56
zh-cn:现在，Brian Cantera探长带着我，他是加拿大皇家骑警，他带着我去温哥华东部的一个洞穴一样的仓库去看一些被合法没收的物品它们是加拿大皇家骑警从走私者那里没收来的物品当然，走私的目标是美国的南部那里有一个永远不能满足的市场他们称之为不列颠哥伦比亚的花蕾部分因为它是作为有机商品来卖的所以在加利福尼亚的销路非常的好（笑声）（掌声）
en:Now, I was taken by inspector Brian Cantera,of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police,to a cavernous warehouse east of Vancouverto see some of the goods which are regularly confiscatedby the RCMPfrom the smugglers who are sending it,of course, down south to the United Stateswhere there is an insatiable marketfor B.C. Bud, as it&#39;s called,in part because it&#39;s marketed as organic,which of course goes down very well in California.(Laughter)(Applause)
时间：13:30
zh-cn:现在就就连警方也承认这对主要出口商的利益来说一点影响也没有在全球化开始之际全球的毒品市场就急速扩充得非常庞大不过却没有相应的增加用来对抗犯罪的资源给警方
en:Now, even by the police&#39;s admission,this makes not a dent in the profits, really,of the major exporters.Since the beginning of globalization,the global narcotics market has expanded enormously.There has, however, been no concomitant increasein the resources availableto police forces.
时间：13:54
zh-cn:然而，这一切将有所改变因为有些非常奇怪的事情正在发生联合国已经意识到确切的说是上个月意识到加拿大已经成为了一个重要的生产和分销地区在摇头丸和其他合成毒品交易方面
en:This, however, may all be about to change,because something very strange is going on.The United Nations recognizedearlier this — it was last month actually —that Canada has become a key area of distribution and productionof ecstasy and other synthetic drugs.
时间：14:16
zh-cn:有趣的是，市场份额中海洛因和可卡因正在下降因为这些药丸在对它们所产生的作用进行改良。现在游戏规则改变了因为它把生产地从发展中国家转移到了西方世界当它发生成为一个趋势它就会超越我们西方警力的能力之外我们的缉毒警察已经原地踏步了40年而我们早应该对此严肃的重新思考一下这是我个人观点
en:Interestingly, the market shareof heroin and cocaine is going down,because the pills are getting ever better at reproducing their highs.Now that is a game changer,because it shifts production away from the developing worldand into the Western world.When that happens, it is a trendwhich is set to overwhelm our policing capacity in the West.The drugs policy which we&#39;ve had in place for 40 yearsis long overdue for a very serious rethink,in my opinion.
时间：14:55
zh-cn:现在来谈谈经济衰退其实，有组织犯罪早已适应了他们适应得非常好说他们是全世界最投机的商人一点也不奇怪而且它没有规定和管制系统。但是，他们也有两个经营上的风险一个是被依法逮捕，但是说真的，这是他们最不担心的第二个是与其他组织竞争就像是脑门后抵着一把枪
en:Now, the recession.Well, organized crime has already adaptedvery well to the recession.Not surprising, the most opportunistic industryin the whole world.And it has no rules to its regulatory system.Except, of course, it has two business risks:arrest by law enforcement,which is, frankly, the least of their worries,and competition from other groups,i.e. a bullet in the back of the head.
时间：15:22
zh-cn:已收到威胁他们就会马上转移生意的运作人们不再大量吸毒，也不常去找妓女因为经济衰退了于是他们转而加大了金融犯罪和企业犯罪的投入整体而言有两个部分一个是假冒伪劣商品另一个是网络犯罪而且非常成功。我想向你们介绍Pringle先生。或者更准确的说，Pringle先生（Señor,西班牙语中先生的意思）
en:What they&#39;ve done is they&#39;ve shifted their operations.People don&#39;t smoke as much dope, or visit prostitutes quite so frequentlyduring a recession.And so instead, they have invaded financialand corporate crime in a big way,but above all, two sectors,and that is counterfeit goodsand cybercrime.And it&#39;s been terribly successful.I would like to introduce you to Mr. Pringle.Or perhaps I should say, more accurately, Señor Pringle.
时间：15:51
zh-cn:我是通过一位巴西网络罪犯认识他的我们一起坐在车里，车停在圣保罗的Paulista 街道通过我的笔记本电脑，不到5分钟他就侵入了电脑安全系统系统属于巴西某大型银行那真的算不上难而且可以说非常简单，因为网络犯罪的诱人之处就在于它并不是十分高科技
en:I was introduced to this bit of kit by a Brazilian cybercriminal.We sat in a car on the Avenue Paulistain São Paulo, together.Hooked it up to my laptop,and within about five minutes he had penetratedthe computer security systemof a major Brazilian bank.It&#39;s really not that difficult.And it&#39;s actually much easier becausethe fascinating thing about cybercrimeis that it&#39;s not so much the technology.
时间：16:20
zh-cn:网络犯罪其实是一种我们称作为社会工程的东西或者是术语上是这么用的每一分钟都会有新的诞生它简单到你无法想象要人们去使用他们的电脑多数人都不会感兴趣但是，很快的当网络罪犯们发现最快的一条通道当然是直接掏空别人的钱包用虚无的性爱承诺和爱情的盟约
en:The key to cybercrime is what we call social engineering.Or to use the technical term for it,there&#39;s one born every minute.You would not believe how easy it isto persuade people to do things with their computerswhich are objectively not in their interest.And it was very soonwhen the cybercriminals learned that the quickest way to do this,of course, the quickest way to a person&#39;s walletis through the promise of sex and love.
时间：16:49
zh-cn:我想各位应该还记得“I-love-you&quot;病毒吧他是全世界最成功的病毒之一当这个病毒出现的时候我很幸运因为第一个把它传播给我的人是我的前女友她当时对我有很多的情绪以及感受不过“爱”绝对不在其中（笑声）在我看见这些信在我的收信箱的时候我马上就把它给删掉了这让我省了不少的麻烦
en:I expect some of you remember the ILOVEYOU virus,one of the very great worldwide viruses that came.I was very fortunate when the ILOVEYOU virus came out,because the first person I received it fromwas an ex-girlfriend of mine.Now, she harbored all sorts of sentiments and emotions towards me at the time,but love was not amongst them.(Laughter)And so as soon as I saw this drop into my inbox,I dispatched it hastily to the recycle binand spared myself a very nasty infection.
时间：17:25
zh-cn:所以，大家真的要小心网络犯罪我们知道网络对于犯罪者而言是帮助犯罪的工具他们是携带着疟原虫的蚊子当得到免费的午餐他们就可以侵扰我们的血液并损害我们的利益。
en:So, cybercrime, do watch out for it.One thing that we do know that the Internet is doingis the Internet is assisting these guys.These are mosquitos who carry the malarial parasitewhich infests our blood when the mosy has had a free mealat our expense.
时间：17:43
zh-cn:现在，青蒿琥酯是一种非常有效的药物它可以在感染的初期杀死寄生虫但是在过去的一年柬埔寨的研究员发现发生了些变化这些寄生虫开始出现了抗药性研究人员担心抗药性的产生是由于柬埔寨人无法负担一般市场的药物所以他们只能从互联网上购买然而者写药品内含的剂量不足这导致了变异的发生、这些病菌没有被杀死，反而产生了抗药性
en:Now, Artesunate is a very effective drugat destroying the parasite in the early daysof infection.But over the past year or so,researchers in Cambodia have discoveredthat what&#39;s happening isthe malarial parasite is developing a resistance.And they fear that the reason why it&#39;s developing a resistanceis because Cambodians can&#39;t afford the drugs on the commercial market,and so they buy it from the Internet.And these pills contain only low dosesof the active ingredient.Which is whythe parasite is beginning to develop a resistance.
时间：18:22
zh-cn:我说这个原因是因为我们必须知道有组织犯罪正冲击着我们生活中所有的方面你不必去找妓女或者吸毒就可以跟有组织犯罪者发生关系他们影响着我们的银行账户他们影响着我们的交流，我们的退休金他们甚至影响我们的食物和我们的政府
en:The reason I say thisis because we have to knowthat organized crimeimpacts all sorts of areas of our lives.You don&#39;t have to sleep with prostitutesor take drugsin order to have a relationship with organized crime.They affect our bank accounts.They affect our communications, our pension funds.They even affect the food that we eatand our governments.
时间：18:48
zh-cn:这已经不仅仅是一个来自于帕尔默和纽约的西西里黑手党问题了黑手党们并不浪漫在21世纪的今天他们是一个万能的行业他们创造不稳定的局势和暴力不管到哪里他们都会成为当地的主要经济力量而我们需要非常非常严肃的对待这个问题很荣幸能跟各位聊这些非常感谢（掌声）
en:This is no longer an issueof Sicilians from Palermo and New York.There is no romance involved with gangstersin the 21st Century.This is a mighty industry,and it creates instability and violencewherever it goes.It is a major economic forceand we need to take it very, very seriously.It&#39;s been a privilege talking to you.Thank you very much.(Applause)
