时间： 0:11
zh-cn:作为人类，我们本能地希望使自己更健康，少受痛楚。无论我们在生活中遭遇到什么，不管是癌症，糖尿病，心脏病，或是骨折，我们都想尽快康复。我是一间生物材料实验室的负责人，而且我对历史上人类别出心裁地将不同的材料使用在人体上十分感兴趣。
en:As humans, it&#39;s in our natureto want to improve our health and minimize our suffering.Whatever life throws at us,whether it&#39;s cancer, diabetes, heart disease,or even broken bones, we want to try and get better.Now I&#39;m head of a biomaterials lab,and I&#39;m really fascinated by the way that humanshave used materials in really creative waysin the body over time.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:举个例子，这个漂亮的蓝色珍珠贝壳，它其实是被玛雅人当作人造牙齿来使用的。我们还不是很确定他们为什么要这么做。这东西坚硬，耐用，但它也具备其他优秀的特征。实际上 ，当他们把它放进颚骨时，它可以和颚骨结合在一起。现在，在精密的成像技术的帮助下我们明白了，之所以能结合，部分原因是因为这种材料的设计有非常独特的地方，它有良好的化学性质，和良好的构造。而且我觉得，在很多方面，我们可以把蓝色珍珠贝壳和玛雅人这个例子，当作蓝牙技术的首个真正应用。
en:Take, for example, this beautiful blue nacre shell.This was actually used by the Mayansas an artificial tooth replacement.We&#39;re not quite sure why they did it.It&#39;s hard. It&#39;s durable.But it also had other very nice properties.In fact, when they put it into the jawbone,it could integrate into the jaw,and we know now with very sophisticatedimaging technologiesthat part of that integration comes from the factthat this material is designedin a very specific way, has a beautiful chemistry,has a beautiful architecture.And I think in many ways we can sort of thinkof the use of the blue nacre shell and the Mayansas the first real applicationof the bluetooth technology.
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:如果我们沿着时间的发展来思考整个历史进程中人类是如何在人体上运用不同材料的，我们会发现，频频出现的是那些极具创意的医生，他们都是就地取材。
en:But if we move on and think throughout historyhow people have used different materials in the body,very often it&#39;s been physiciansthat have been quite creative.They&#39;ve taken things off the shelf.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:我最喜欢的一个例子，是关于哈罗德•里德利爵士的。他是一位著名的眼科医生，至少是成为了著名的眼科医生。在二战期间，他注意到执行完任务回来的飞行员的眼睛里，执行完任务回来的飞行员的眼睛里，有一些细小的碎片藏在里面，有一些细小的碎片藏在里面，但比较有趣的是，这些碎片材料并没有引发任何炎症。经过调查他发现，这是一些塑料碎片，是喷火式战斗机座舱罩的一部分。由此他提出把这种材料当作人工晶体的新材料。它叫做PMMA（聚甲基丙烯酸甲酯），如今它每年都造福数百万人民，帮助预防白内障。
en:One of my favorite examplesis that of Sir Harold Ridley,who was a famous ophthalmologist,or at least became a famous ophthalmologist.And during World War II, what he would seewould be pilots coming back from their missions,and he noticed that within their eyesthey had shards of small bits of materiallodged within the eye,but the very interesting thing about itwas that material, actually, wasn&#39;t causingany inflammatory response.So he looked into this, and he figured outthat actually that material was little shards of plasticthat were coming from the canopy of the Spitfires.And this led him to propose that materialas a new material for intraocular lenses.It&#39;s called PMMA, and it&#39;s now usedin millions of people every yearand helps in preventing cataracts.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:我觉得这是一个很好的例子，因为它提醒我们，在过去人们之所以选择某种材料是因为它是生物惰性材料，他们只是想发挥它的机械性能。你把它植入体内，不会有不良反应。我要给你们看的是，在再生医学领域，我们的观念已经发生改变，不再从生物惰性材料上取材，我们现在在积极寻找新的材料，能和人体相互作用的生物活性材料，并且我们能将之植入体内，它们发挥作用之后，随着时间的推移它们会自动溶解。
en:And that example, I think, is a really nice one,because it helps remind us that in the early days,people often chose materialsbecause they were bioinert.Their very purpose was to perform a mechanical function.You&#39;d put them in the bodyand you wouldn&#39;t get an adverse response.And what I want to show you is thatin regenerative medicine,we&#39;ve really shifted away from that ideaof taking a bioinert material.We&#39;re actually actively looking for materialsthat will be bioactive, that will interact with the body,and that furthermore we can put in the body,they&#39;ll have their function,and then they&#39;ll dissolve away over time.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:我们看下这个示意图，它给我们展示了典型的组织工程学方法。我们从病人身上提取细胞，把它们放在某种材料上，如果需要，我们还可以把材料弄得复杂一点，然后我们就能在实验室里进行培养，或者就直接放回病人身体内。这种方法在全世界普遍使用，包括我们实验室。
en:If we look at this schematic,this is showing you what we think ofas the typical tissue-engineering approach.We have cells there, typically from the patient.We can put those onto a material,and we can make that material very complex if we want to,and we can then grow that up in the labor we can put it straight back into the patient.And this is an approach that&#39;s used all over the world,including in our lab.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:我们在想到干细胞的时候，有非常重要的一点，就是干细胞显然可以变成很多不同的东西，并且也希望它们能长成不同的东西，所以我们要确保放干细胞的环境中有足够多的信息，这样它们才能发育成我们想要的那种特定的组织。如果我们想想那些在全世界不同的实验室里，人们正试图再生的各种不同类型的组织，基本就包括了差不多你能想到的所有组织。事实上，那些组织的结构都挺不同的，要怎样去再造组织，绝大部分要取决于，你的病人是否有一些潜在疾病，以及一些其他的条件。你还需要非常认真地考虑要使用什么材料，考虑它们的生化特征，它们的结构，和其他的一些特性。
en:But one of the things that&#39;s really importantwhen we&#39;re thinking about stem cellsis that obviously stem cells can be many different things,and they want to be many different things,and so we want to make sure that the environmentwe put them into has enough informationso that they can become the right sortof specialist tissue.And if we think about the different types of tissuesthat people are looking at regeneratingall over the world, in all the different labs in the world,there&#39;s pretty much every tissue you can think of.And actually, the structure of those tissuesis quite different, and it&#39;s going to really dependon whether your patient has any underlying disease,other conditions, in terms of howyou&#39;re going to regenerate your tissue,and you&#39;re going to need to think about the materialsyou&#39;re going to use really carefully,their biochemistry, their mechanics,and many other properties as well.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:我们身体里的组织都具有非常不同的再生能力。我们来看看可怜的普罗米修斯（希腊神话中人名，为人类盗火种甘受罚），他做了一个比较苦逼的职业抉择，然后就被希腊的神给惩罚了。他被绑到一块石头上，然后每天都会有一只老鹰飞过来啄食他的肝。当然，他的肝每天都会再生，所以他就这样日复一日，年复一年，永远不停地接受神的惩罚。肝会这样完美地再生，但如果我们想一下别的组织，比如像软骨，哪怕是最简单的小切口，软骨都很难再生出来。所以，再生能力是因组织而异的，
en:Our tissues all have very different abilities to regenerate,and here we see poor Prometheus,who made a rather tricky career choiceand was punished by the Greek gods.He was tied to a rock, and an eagle would comeevery day to eat his liver.But of course his liver would regenerate every day,and so day after day he was punishedfor eternity by the gods.And liver will regenerate in this very nice way,but actually if we think of other tissues,like cartilage, for example,even the simplest nick and you&#39;re going to find itreally difficult to regenerate your cartilage.So it&#39;s going to be very different from tissue to tissue.
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:骨头呢，介于两者之间。我们实验室在骨头上做了大量的工作。骨头的修复能力其实相当不错，它必须得是这样的。我们可能都有过骨折的经历吧。而要想修复骨折，一个方法就叫髂骨移植法。外科医生可能会从你的髂骨那取些骨头，就在这儿，然后移植到身体的别的部位。这个方法其实很有效，因为它是你自己身上的骨头，而且有充分的血管浸润，也就是说供血良好。但问题就是，你能用得就只有那么多，而且当你在进行这项手术时，你的病人可能会在缺位那里产生极大的疼痛，哪怕手术两年后还会感到疼痛。
en:Now, bone is somewhere in between,and this is one of the tissues that we work on a lot in our lab.And bone is actually quite good at repairing.It has to be. We&#39;ve probably all had fracturesat some point or other.And one of the ways that you can thinkabout repairing your fractureis this procedure here, called an iliac crest harvest.And what the surgeon might dois take some bone from your iliac crest,which is just here,and then transplant that somewhere else in the body.And it actually works really well,because it&#39;s your own bone,and it&#39;s well vascularized,which means it&#39;s got a really good blood supply.But the problem is, there&#39;sonly so much you can take,and also when you do that operation,your patients might actually have significant painin that defect site even two years after the operation.
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:所以我们想的是，骨头修复肯定有大量的需求，但这种髂骨方法有太多的局限性，那么我们是否能在体内重新制造出所需的骨头，然后将之进行移植，而又不像髂骨方法那样产生痛苦的后果？
en:So what we were thinking is,there&#39;s a tremendous need for bone repair, of course,but this iliac crest-type approachreally has a lot of limitations to it,and could we perhaps recreatethe generation of bone within the bodyon demand and then be able to transplant itwithout these very, very painful aftereffectsthat you would have with the iliac crest harvest?
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:我们是这样做的，我们的方法就是回到组织工程学，但是要用不同的思维方式。而且我们将之大大简化，我们去掉了很多步骤，我们减掉了从病人身上提取细胞这一步骤，我们减掉了使用华丽的化学反应的必要性，我们还去掉了在实验室里搭建这些支架的必要性。所以我们真正关注的是我们的材料系统，并尽量简化，但因为我们用了巧妙的方法，所以我们就能非常大量地生产骨骼。所以我们就能非常大量地生产骨骼。所以我们是利用身体，把它当作催化剂来使用，以此产生新骨骼。这就是我们所称的体内生物反应器，我们可以用这种方法大量制造骨骼。我详细跟你们讲下。
en:And so this is what we did, and the way we did itwas by coming back to this typical tissue-engineering approachbut actually thinking about it rather differently.And we simplified it a lot,so we got rid of a lot of these steps.We got rid of the need to harvest cells from the patient,we got rid of the need to put in really fancy chemistries,and we got rid of the needto culture these scaffolds in the lab.And what we really focused onwas our material system and making it quite simple,but because we used it in a really clever way,we were able to generate enormous amounts of boneusing this approach.So we were using the bodyas really the catalyst to help usto make lots of new bone.And it&#39;s an approach that we callthe in vivo bioreactor, and we were able to makeenormous amounts of bone using this approach.And I&#39;ll talk you through this.
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:所以我们所做的就是，在体内我们的长骨外面，都有一层干细胞，这一层叫做骨膜。这层骨膜通常来说和在它下面的骨骼是紧密相连的，而且里面含有干细胞，这些干细胞在胚胎发育时期有着非常重要的作用，而且当你不慎骨折的时候，它们会被激活以修复骨骼。所以我们要利用骨膜层，我们想办法在它下面注入一种液体，然后在30秒内会变成一种硬胶。这样就将骨膜提起，与骨骼分离，所以本质上它制造了一个人造空腔，就在骨骼和干细胞层中间。我们通过一个针孔切口进入，这样身上别的细胞就进不去，这个人造的体内生物反应腔能促进这些干细胞的增殖，而它们就能形成许多新的组织。过一段时间后，就可以收取这些组织，并用到身上其他地方去。
en:So what we do is,in humans, we all have a layer of stem cellson the outside of our long bones.That layer is called the periosteum.And that layer is actually normallyvery, very tightly bound to the underlying bone,and it&#39;s got stem cells in it.Those stem cells are really importantin the embryo when it develops,and they also sort of wake up if you have a fractureto help you with repairing the bone.So we take that periosteum layerand we developed a way to inject underneath ita liquid that then, within 30 seconds,would turn into quite a rigid geland can actually lift theperiosteum away from the bone.So it creates, in essence, an artificial cavitythat is right next to both the bonebut also this really rich layer of stem cells.And we go in through a pinhole incisionso that no other cells from the body can get in,and what happens is that thatartificial in vivo bioreactor cavitycan then lead to the proliferation of these stem cells,and they can form lots of new tissue,and then over time, you can harvest that tissueand use it elsewhere in the body.
时间： 7:54
zh-cn:这张组织学切片显示了我们采用这种方法之后所看到的样子。我们主要看到的是大量的骨骼，在这张图中，你们可以看到腿中间的部位，也就是骨髓，还可以看到原来的骨骼，以及原来的骨骼结束的位置，在左边的就是新生的骨骼，就是在生物反应腔生长的，事实上你还可以让它生长得更大。另外你们所看到的，在原骨骼和新骨骼之间的分界线，算是比较薄弱的地方，所以现在外科医生就可以来把新骨骼取走，而骨膜能长回来，所以你的腿也会恢复原貌，就像什么都没发生过一样。所以相比髂骨移植法，这种方法大大减少了术后疼痛，而且你注入多少胶进去，就能生长出多少骨骼来，所以这种方法算是一种按需供应的方法。
en:This is a histology slideof what we see when we do that,and essentially what we seeis very large amounts of bone.So in this picture, you can see the middle of the leg,so the bone marrow,then you can see the original bone,and you can see where that original bone finishes,and just to the left of that is the new bonethat&#39;s grown within that bioreactor cavity,and you can actually make it even larger.And that demarcation that you can seebetween the original bone and the new boneacts as a very slight point of weakness,so actually now the surgeon can come along,can harvest away that new bone,and the periosteum can grow back,so you&#39;re left with the legin the same sort of stateas if you hadn&#39;t operated on it in the first place.So it&#39;s very, very low in terms of after-paincompared to an iliac crest harvest.And you can grow different amounts of bonedepending on how much gel you put in there,so it really is an on demand sort of procedure.
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:当我们在做这个项目的时候，媒体给予我们很多的关注，因为这是一种十分理想的产生新骨骼的方法。也有很多很多不同的人和我们联系，对使用这种方法十分感兴趣。我在这里跟你们说吧有时这些和我们联系的人很奇怪，有点出乎意料，最有趣的，我这么说吧，和我联系的人，是一个来自美国的橄榄球队，他们希望他们的脑袋里头盖骨能长到双倍的厚度。
en:Now, at the time that we did this,this received a lot of attention in the press,because it was a really nice wayof generating new bone,and we got many, many contactsfrom different people that were interested in using this.And I&#39;m just going to tell you,sometimes those contacts are very strange,slightly unexpected,and the very most interesting,let me put it that way, contact that I had,was actually from a team of American footballersthat all wanted to have double-thickness skullsmade on their head.
时间： 9:29
zh-cn:所以是会有这样的人和你联系的。当然作为一个英国人，又自小在法国长大，我是比较坦率的，我不得不委婉地解释说，像他们这种情况，那里本身大概也没多少可保护的。
en:And so you do get these kinds of contacts,and of course, being Britishand also growing up in France,I tend to be very blunt,and so I had to explain to them very nicelythat in their particular case,there probably wasn&#39;t that much in thereto protect in the first place.
时间： 9:46
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:所以这就是我们的方法。材料很简单，但我们是经过精心思考的。而且我们也知道体内的这些细胞，在胚胎时期，当他们生长的时候，还能形成另一种不同的组织，就是软骨，所以我们又制造了一种性质和原先不大一样的胶体，化学效应也稍有不同，把它们注入，我们就能得到百分之百的软骨。
en:So this was our approach,and it was simple materials,but we thought about it carefully.And actually we know that those cellsin the body, in the embryo, as they developcan form a different kind of tissue, cartilage,and so we developed a gel that was slightly differentin nature and slightly different chemistry,put it in there, and we were able to get100 percent cartilage instead.
时间：10:11
zh-cn:我觉得这个方法对于预先计划好的手术来说效果是很不错的，但你必须得预先计划好。所以对其他类型的手术来说，采用支架方法是非常有必要的。当你在思考设计那些支架的时候，你需要一个多学科的团队。所以我们的团队里有化学家，还有细胞生物学家，外科医生，甚至还有物理学家，这些人都走到了一起，而且我们竭尽心思设计那些材料。
en:And this approach works really well, I think,for pre-planned procedures,but it&#39;s something you do have to pre-plan.So for other kinds of operations,there&#39;s definitely a need for otherscaffold-based approaches.And when you think about designingthose other scaffolds, actually,you need a really multi-disciplinary team.And so our team has chemists,it has cell biologists, surgeons, physicists even,and those people all come togetherand we think really hard about designing the materials.
时间：10:41
zh-cn:我们希望它们能提供足够多的信息，让我们能使细胞按我们的要求行动，但又不能太复杂，以免在临床上难以实践。所以我们经常思考的事项之一，就是试图去明白人体内组织的结构。当我们一想到骨骼时，显然这是我最喜欢的组织，我们把它放大，就能看到，就算你一点都不知道骨骼结构也能看到，它结构很优美，真的很美，那里还有很多血管。我们再放大，就能看到这些细胞被纳米级别的纤维像3D矩阵一样环绕着，他们为细胞提供很多信息。如果我们再放大，对骨骼来说，细胞周围的基质也形成纳米大小的优美结构。而且它还是一种杂合性的材料，就是部分有机，部分无机。这为我们开拓了一个新的领域，真的，就是试图开发出具有这种杂合性结构的材料。我在这里给大家看两个例子，就是我们制造的有这种结构的物质，而且是可以量身定做的。这边你可以看到软软的这一种，而这边是一种杂合性材料做成的，它的坚韧性非常显著，而且它一点也不脆。无机材料通常都比较脆，你就没有办法得到这种强度和韧性的。
en:But we want to make them have enough informationthat we can get the cells to do what we want,but not be so complex as to make it difficultto get to clinic.And so one of the things we think about a lotis really trying to understandthe structure of the tissues in the body.And so if we think of bone,obviously my own favorite tissue,we zoom in, we can see,even if you don&#39;t know anything about bone structure,it&#39;s beautifully organized, really beautifully organized.We&#39;ve lots of blood vessels in there.And if we zoom in again, we see that the cellsare actually surrounded by a 3D matrixof nano-scale fibers, and they give a lotof information to the cells.And if we zoom in again,actually in the case of bone, the matrixaround the cells is beautifully organizedat the nano scale, and it&#39;s a hybrid materialthat&#39;s part organic, part inorganic.And that&#39;s led to a whole field, really,that has looked at developing materialsthat have this hybrid kind of structure.And so I&#39;m showing here just two exampleswhere we&#39;ve made some materialsthat have that sort of structure,and you can really tailor it.You can see here a very squishy oneand now a material that&#39;s also this hybrid sort of materialbut actually has remarkable toughness,and it&#39;s no longer brittle.And an inorganic material would normally be really brittle,and you wouldn&#39;t be able to havethat sort of strength and toughness in it.
时间：12:00
zh-cn:另外一个我想很快地提一下，就是我们做的很多支架都是多孔的，这是必须的，因为你得让血管在里面发育生长。但是这些孔很多时候却比细胞要大得多，所以即使它是3D的，对于细胞来说可能会是一个弯曲的表面，而这是有点违背自然规律的。所以我们能做的就是做一些稍微不同维度的支架，这样就能3D地包围细胞，让他们能拥有多一点信息。在这两个领域里，都有很多工作在进行着。
en:One other thing I want to quickly mention is thatmany of the scaffolds we make are porous, and they have to be,because you want blood vessels to grow in there.But the pores are actually oftentimesmuch bigger than the cells,and so even though it&#39;s 3D,the cell might see it more as a slightly curved surface,and that&#39;s a little bit unnatural.And so one of the things you can think about doingis actually making scaffolds with slightly different dimensionsthat might be able to surround your cells in 3Dand give them a little bit more information.And there&#39;s a lot of work going on in both of these areas.
时间：12:32
zh-cn:最后，我还想说说在心血管疾病方面运用这种技术。因为这是临床上一个比较大的问题。而我们所知的一件事就是，如果你不幸心脏病突发，那么那里的组织会开始死亡，时间拖得越久，后果可能越严重。如果我们能够，让死亡的组织不再继续死下去，或使它再生，那将很了不起。现在在全世界范围内有很多这样的干细胞实验，他们使用很多不同种类的细胞，但似乎得到的都是同一个结果，就是这些细胞，一旦你将之移植通常都会死掉。你可以把他们移植到心脏或血液中，但不管哪一种方式，我们似乎都没法使足够数量的细胞到我们想要的地方去，然后进行细胞再生，那样我们才能得到较好的临床效果。
en:Now finally, I just want to talk a little bit aboutapplying this sort of thing to cardiovascular disease,because this is a really big clinical problem.And one of the things that we know is that,unfortunately, if you have a heart attack,then that tissue can start to die,and your outcome may not be very good over time.And it would be really great, actually,if we could stop that dead tissueeither from dying or help it to regenerate.And there&#39;s lots and lots of stem cell trials going on worldwide,and they use many different types of cells,but one common theme that seems to be coming outis that actually, very often, those cells will dieonce you&#39;ve implanted them.And you can either put them into the heartor into the blood system,but either way, we don&#39;t seem to be ableto get quite the right number of cellsgetting to the location we want them toand being able to deliver the sort of beautifulcell regeneration that we would like to haveto get good clinical outcomes.
时间：13:35
zh-cn:所以我们在思考的一些问题，而且很多同行的人也在思考的一些问题，就是为此制造材料。但这里有不同之处，我们仍须化学和机械学，我们还需要有趣的拓扑学，我们也需要有新意的方式来环绕细胞。但是这些细胞可能也很像一种具有传导性的材料，因为细胞自身会很好地反馈而且在彼此之间传导信息。你在这能看到细胞在这些材料上同步地跳动着，这是非常非常振奋人心的进展。这是非常非常振奋人心的进展。
en:And so some of the things that we&#39;re thinking of,and many other people in the field are thinking of,are actually developing materials for that.But there&#39;s a difference here.We still need chemistry, we still need mechanics,we still need really interesting topography,and we still need really interesting ways to surround the cells.But now, the cells alsowould probably quite like a materialthat&#39;s going to be able to be conductive,because the cells themselves will respond very welland will actually conduct signals between themselves.You can see them nowbeating synchronously on these materials,and that&#39;s a very, very exciting developmentthat&#39;s going on.
时间：14:16
zh-cn:总结一下，我想说，能够在这样的领域工作，对于我们所有在这个领域工作的人而言，这不仅是超级让人兴奋的科学，它还有潜力对病人产生影响，不论这影响是大是小，对我们都是一种荣幸。为此我也要对你们说声感谢。
en:So just to wrap up, I&#39;d like to actually say thatbeing able to work in this sort of field,all of us that work in this fieldthat&#39;s not only super-exciting science,but also has the potentialto impact on patients,however big or small they are,is really a great privilege.And so for that, I&#39;d like to thank all of you as well.
时间：14:38
zh-cn:谢谢你们。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:40
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
