时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是位神经学家，我研究决策制定我做了一些试验，来测试大脑中不同的化学物质如何影响我们所作的选择
en:I&#39;m a neuroscientist, and I study decision-making.I do experiments to test how different chemicalsin the brain influence the choices we make.
时间： 0:21
zh-cn:我在这里是要告诉你们制定成功决策的秘诀：一个奶酪三明治没错。据科学家所言，奶酪三明治是解决一切艰难决定的良伴
en:I&#39;m here to tell you the secret to successful decision-making:a cheese sandwich.That&#39;s right. According to scientists, a cheese sandwichis the solution to all your tough decisions.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:我是怎么知道的呢？因为我就是做这个研究的科学家。
en:How do I know? I&#39;m the scientist who did the study.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:几年前，我和我的同事们对此产生兴趣——大脑中一种称为血清素的化学物质如何影响人们在社会情境下所做的决定具体来讲，我们想知道，血清素如何影响人们在遭到不公待遇时的反应
en:A few years ago, my colleagues and I were interestedin how a brain chemical called serotoninwould influence people&#39;s decisions in social situations.Specifically, we wanted to know how serotonin would affectthe way people react when they&#39;re treated unfairly.
时间： 0:57
zh-cn:所以我们做了一项试验通过提供这种极其难喝的柠檬味饮料来操控人们的血清素水平其原理是带走大脑中制造血清素的原料也就是色氨酸我们的发现是，当色氨酸（含量）低时，人们更倾向于采取报复（行为）来应对不公平待遇
en:So we did an experiment.We manipulated people&#39;s serotonin levels by giving themthis really disgusting-tasting artificial lemon-flavored drinkthat works by taking away the raw ingredient for serotoninin the brain.This is the amino acid tryptophan.So what we found was, when tryptophan was low,people were more likely to take revengewhen they&#39;re treated unfairly.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:这就是我们所做的实验。这里有一些新闻标题是后来报道的：
en:That&#39;s the study we did, and here are some of the headlinesthat came out afterwards.
时间： 1:29
zh-cn:（“强有力的决策制定只需要一个奶酪三明治”）
en:(&quot;A cheese sandwich is all you need for strong decision-making&quot;)
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:（“奶酪，我们何等亲爱的朋友”）
en:(&quot;What a friend we have in cheeses&quot;)
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:（”吃奶酪和肉会增强自控“）这一点，你可以会疑惑：我遗漏了些什么吗？
en:(&quot;Eating Cheese and Meat May Boost Self-Control&quot;) At this point, you might be wondering, did I miss something?
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:（“官方消息！巧克力可以阻止坏脾气”）奶酪？巧克力？这都是从哪来的？当这些（新闻）报道后，我自己也有同样的想法因为我们的试验与奶酪和巧克力无关我们给人们这种难喝的饮料它会影响他们的色氨酸水平但我们发现，色氨酸也恰好存在于奶酪与巧克力中当然，《科学》杂志声称奶酪与巧克力能帮助人做出更好的决定，这必然会吸引眼球所以你们现在明白了：这是新闻标题的“演化“过程
en:(&quot;Official! Chocolate stops you being grumpy&quot;) Cheese? Chocolate? Where did that come from?And I thought the same thing myself when these came out,because our study had nothing to do with cheese or chocolate.We gave people this horrible-tasting drinkthat affected their tryptophan levels.But it turns out that tryptophan also happens to be foundin cheese and chocolate.And of course when science says cheese and chocolatehelp you make better decisions, well, that&#39;s sure to grab people&#39;s attention.So there you have it:the evolution of a headline.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:当这些发生时，我会想，好吧这有什么大不了的？媒体过度简化了一些东西，但说到底它只是一则新闻故事而已我想很多科学家都有这样的态度但问题是，这样的事情总在发生它们不仅会影响你所读到的新闻故事还会影响你在货架上所见的商品当这些新闻发布之后，(接下来)会发生的是营销人员打电话过来问我愿不愿意提供一份科学认证证明某种瓶装水具有改善情绪的功能或者问我是否愿意参加电视节目面对一群现场直播的观众证明安抚性的食品真的能够让你感觉更棒我想这些人的出发点是好的，但是如果我接受了他们的邀请我就是在逾越科学的界限好的科学家会谨慎地避免这种做法
en:When this happened, a part of me thought, well,what&#39;s the big deal?So the media oversimplified a few things, but in the end,it&#39;s just a news story.And I think a lot of scientists have this attitude.But the problem is that this kind of thing happens all the time,and it affects not just the stories you read in the newsbut also the products you see on the shelves.When the headlines rolled, what happened was,the marketers came calling.Would I be willing to provide a scientific endorsementof a mood-boosting bottled water?Or would I go on television to demonstrate,in front of a live audience,that comfort foods really do make you feel better?I think these folks meant well, but had I taken them up on their offers,I would have been going beyond the science,and good scientists are careful not to do this.
时间： 3:04
zh-cn:然而尽管如此，神经科学正在越来越多地出现在市场中例如：神经性饮料一系列产品，包括这种叫做”神经福佑“（Neuro Bliss）的饮料它的标签上注明能够帮助减轻压力改善情绪，提高注意力促进乐观态度不得不说，这听起来很棒（笑声）十分钟前我要是喝上一瓶就好了当这些产品出现在我家附近的商店时我自然想弄清楚有哪些科学研究支持着这些说法因此我浏览了这家公司的网站寻找他们产品的对照实验但我一个都没找到
en:But nevertheless, neuroscience is turning up more and more in marketing.Here&#39;s one example: Neuro drinks,a line of products, including Nuero Bliss here,which according to its label helps reduce stress,enhances mood, provides focused concentration,and promotes a positive outlook.I have to say, this sounds awesome. (Laughter)I could totally have used this 10 minutes ago.So when this came up in my local shop, naturally I wascurious about some of the research backing these claims.So I went to the company&#39;s website looking to findsome controlled trials of their products.But I didn&#39;t find any.
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:不管有没有实验，这些宣传说法都非常抢眼醒目写在标签上，围绕着一张画有大脑的图片事实上，那些大脑的图片是有特殊功能的一组科研人员请几百人读一篇科学论文一半的人，所读文章配有一幅大脑图片，另一半人，读同样的文章但是没有配大脑图片最终 — 您知道是要干什么 —参试人员被提问是否赞同文章的结论这是人们对文章结论的赞同程度这是没有图片的那个对照组这是人们对同样一篇文章结论的赞同程度是有图片的那个对照组因此值得深思的结论就是想要卖得好？那就放上一张大脑图片
en:Trial or no trial, these claims are front and centeron their label right next to a picture of a brain.And it turns out that pictures of brains have special properties.A couple of researchers asked a few hundred peopleto read a scientific article.For half the people, the article included a brain image,and for the other half, it was the same articlebut it didn&#39;t have a brain image.At the end — you see where this is going —people were asked whether they agreedwith the conclusions of the article.So this is how much people agree with the conclusionswith no image.And this is how much they agree with the same articlethat did include a brain image.So the take-home message here is,do you want to sell it? Put a brain on it.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:这里我要暂停一下，来谈谈神经科学在近几十年里取得的许多进步我们不断地发现一些惊人的事实有关大脑比如：几周前，麻省理工学院的神经科学家弄清了如何打破老鼠的生活习性只需控制鼠脑中一个特定区域的神经活动就能实现这些都很酷但神经科学给人的希望，也带来了一些过高的期望和一些夸大的，未经证实的说辞
en:Now let me pause here and take a moment to say thatneuroscience has advanced a lot in the last few decades,and we&#39;re constantly discovering amazing thingsabout the brain.Like, just a couple of weeks ago, neuroscientists at MITfigured out how to break habits in ratsjust by controlling neural activity in a specific part of their brain.Really cool stuff.But the promise of neuroscience has led to some reallyhigh expectations and some overblown, unproven claims.
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:所以我要展示的就是如何识别一些经典花招——是的我要彻底揭秘——它们统称为“神经骗局”“神经吹牛”，或我的最爱“神经瞎话”
en:So what I&#39;m going to do is show you how to spota couple of classic moves, dead giveaways, really,for what&#39;s variously been called neuro-bunk,neuro-bollocks, or, my personal favorite, neuro-flapdoodle.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:第一个未经证明的说辞就是你可以通过扫描人脑来读取人们的想法和情绪这里是一队科研人员发表的研究发表在纽约时报的专栏里标题是？“你爱你的iPhone。真的。”这篇文章很快成为该网站转发最多的文章
en:So the first unproven claim is that you can use brain scansto read people&#39;s thoughts and emotions.Here&#39;s a study published by a team of researchersas an op-ed in The New York Times.The headline? &quot;You Love Your iPhone. Literally.&quot;It quickly became the most emailed article on the site.
时间： 5:46
zh-cn:那么他们是如何得出结论的呢？他们把16个人放入大脑扫描仪中让他们看iPhone振铃的视频扫描仪显示了大脑中一个区域的活动这个区域被称作脑岛他们认为这个区域与爱和同情的感受相关因此他们得出结论，看到了脑岛的活动就意味着受试者对他们的iPhone有爱意这个推理过程只有一个问题——脑岛有很多活动确实，脑岛与正面情绪有关比如爱和同情心但脑岛也与很多其他事情相关例如记忆，语言，注意力甚至愤怒，厌恶和痛感因此，基于同样的逻辑，我也可以推断说你恨你的iPhone重点是，当您看到脑岛中的活动时您不能只挑感受列表上您喜欢的解释这个列表实在有很多选项我的同事Tal Yarkoni和Russ Poldrack已经证明，几乎三分之一已发表的的脑成像研究都与脑岛有关很有可能你们的脑岛现在正在活动不过，我不会骗自己说这意味着你们爱我
en:So how&#39;d they figure this out?They put 16 people inside a brain scannerand showed them videos of ringing iPhones.The brain scans showed activation in a part of the braincalled the insula, a region they sayis linked to feelings of love and compassion.So they concluded that because they saw activation in the insula,this meant the subjects loved their iPhones.Now there&#39;s just one problem with this line of reasoning,and that&#39;s that the insula does a lot.Sure, it is involved in positive emotionslike love and compassion,but it&#39;s also involved in tons of other processes,like memory, language, attention,even anger, disgust and pain.So based on the same logic, I could equally concludeyou hate your iPhone.The point here is, when you see activation in the insula,you can&#39;t just pick and choose your favorite explanationfrom off this list, and it&#39;s a really long list.My colleagues Tal Yarkoni and Russ Poldrackhave shown that the insula pops up in almost a thirdof all brain imaging studies that have ever been published.So chances are really, really goodthat your insula is going off right now,but I won&#39;t kid myselfto think this means you love me.
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:所以说到爱与大脑有个研究者，被某些人成为“爱博士”(Dr. Love)他声称科学家已经找到一种粘合剂能够将社会融为一体是爱与繁荣之源这次，不再是奶酪三明治是的，这次是一种叫做催产素的激素。您可能听说过Dr. Love论证是基于如下研究当人体内催产素水平得到提升后人们的互信，共感，和合作也会增强所以他称催产素为“道德分子”
en:So speaking of love and the brain,there&#39;s a researcher, known to some as Dr. Love,who claims that scientists have found the gluethat holds society together,the source of love and prosperity.This time it&#39;s not a cheese sandwich.No, it&#39;s a hormone called oxytocin.You&#39;ve probably heard of it.So, Dr. Love bases his argument on studies showingthat when you boost people&#39;s oxytocin,this increases their trust, empathy and cooperation.So he&#39;s calling oxytocin &quot;the moral molecule.&quot;
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:现在这些研究是科学有效的而且已经得到推广，但这并不是故事的全部其他研究已经表明，增加催产素也会增加嫉妒心，增加幸灾乐祸感催产素会导致人们为了自身群体的利益损害其他群体的利益在某些情况下，催产素甚至会导致合作减少所以基于这些研究，我可以说催产素是“不道德分子”，并叫我自为“奇爱博士&quot;（电影Dr. Strangelove）（笑声）
en:Now these studies are scientifically valid,and they&#39;ve been replicated, but they&#39;re not the whole story.Other studies have shown that boosting oxytocinincreases envy. It increases gloating.Oxytocin can bias people to favor their own groupat the expense of other groups.And in some cases, oxytocin can even decrease cooperation.So based on these studies, I could say oxytocinis an immoral molecule, and call myself Dr. Strangelove.(Laughter)
时间： 8:25
zh-cn:所以我们看到新闻标题里充斥着“神经胡说”我们可以在超市，图书封面看到这些那诊所呢？
en:So we&#39;ve seen neuro-flapdoodle all over the headlines.We see it in supermarkets, on book covers.What about the clinic?
时间： 8:35
zh-cn:SPECT成像，是一种脑扫描技术用放射性示踪剂跟踪脑部血液流动由于价格是几千美元在美国有些诊所给您做SPECT扫描，利用成像结果帮助诊断您的问题诊所声称这些扫描能够帮助防止老年痴呆症解决体重和上瘾问题解决婚姻冲突还能治疗各类精神问题从抑郁到焦虑到多动症听起来很棒，很多人同意这些诊所每年吸金数千万美元
en:SPECT imaging is a brain-scanning technologythat uses a radioactive tracerto track blood flow in the brain.For the bargain price of a few thousand dollars,there are clinics in the U.S. that will give youone of these SPECT scans and use the imageto help diagnose your problems.These scans, the clinics say, can helpprevent Alzheimer&#39;s disease,solve weight and addiction issues,overcome marital conflicts,and treat, of course, a variety of mental illnessesranging from depression to anxiety to ADHD.This sounds great. A lot of people agree.Some of these clinics are pulling in tens of millionsof dollars a year in business.
时间： 9:22
zh-cn:但有个问题在神经科学中的广泛共识是我们还不能从单独的脑扫描中诊断精神疾病但是到目前为止这些诊所已经治疗了数万病人很多还是儿童SPECT成像是将放射性物质注射到体内把人们暴露在放射性物质之下，会有潜在危害
en:There&#39;s just one problem.The broad consensus in neuroscienceis that we can&#39;t yet diagnose mental illnessfrom a single brain scan.But these clinics have treatedtens of thousands of patients to date,many of them children,and SPECT imaging involves a radioactive injection,so exposing people to radiation, potentially harmful.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:作为一名神经科学家，我对此更为兴奋神经科学治疗精神疾病具有很大潜力甚至可能把我们变得更好更聪明。如果某一天，我们可以说奶酪和巧克力能够帮助我们更好地决策，我也会这么说但我们目前还未能取得这样的成果对于商品，从脑扫描我们还没有找到“购买”按钮对于爱情，从脑扫描我们还不能区分爱与不爱还不能单单从脑扫描作出判断也不能通过激素让罪人变成圣人也许，将来有可能，但在此之前我们必须要小心，不能让夸大吹牛减损对真正的科学的资源和注意力只有科学能够经久不衰
en:I am more excited than most people, as a neuroscientist,about the potential for neuroscience to treat mental illnessand even maybe to make us better and smarter.And if one day we can say that cheese and chocolatehelp us make better decisions, count me in.But we&#39;re not there yet.We haven&#39;t found a &quot;buy&quot; button inside the brain,we can&#39;t tell whether someone is lying or in lovejust by looking at their brain scans,and we can&#39;t turn sinners into saints with hormones.Maybe someday we will, but until then,we have to be careful that we don&#39;t let overblown claimsdetract resources and attention away from the real sciencethat&#39;s playing a much longer game.
时间：10:38
zh-cn:所以这是你们需要做的如果有人兜售有大脑图案的东西时不要只听他们说的问些难以回答的问题，问有何证据问出事情隐藏的细节这个答案并不会简单，因为大脑本身就不简单但不管怎样，这并未阻止我们对它的探索
en:So here&#39;s where you come in.If someone tries to sell you something with a brain on it,don&#39;t just take them at their word.Ask the tough questions. Ask to see the evidence.Ask for the part of the story that&#39;s not being told.The answers shouldn&#39;t be simple, because the brain isn&#39;t simple.But that&#39;s not stopping us from trying to figure it out anyway.
时间：11:03
zh-cn:谢谢。（掌声）
en:Thank you. (Applause)
