时间： 0:11
zh-cn:无论何时外出工作，我都会尝试弄清我饮用水的来源，还有我排泄物的去处。
en:Whenever I get to travel for work,I try to find out where mydrinking water comes from,and where my poop and pee go.
时间： 0:18
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:19
zh-cn:这让我赢得了“大便女皇”的家庭绰号，同时还毁了很多家庭旅行，因为这并不正常。但是思考排泄物们都去哪儿了其实是激发它们超级潜能的第一步。
en:This has earned me the nickname&quot;The Poo Princess&quot; in my family,and it&#39;s ruined many family vacations,because this is not normal.But thinking about where it all goesis the first step in activatingwhat are actually superpowersin our poop and pee.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:是的。而且如果我们好好利用它们，我们可以拥有更加健康而美好的生活。
en:Yeah.And if we use them well,we can live healthierand more beautifully.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:这是新墨西哥州，圣菲市的自然景观。想想涌入你思绪的是怎样的词汇。这样的景观却是用处理过的污水灌溉的。这会影响你的判断吗？我像可能会吧，不过没关系。我们对这件事的看法会决定我们究竟能富多少有革新精神。
en:Check out this landscapein Santa Fe, New Mexico.Just notice what kinds of wordsand feelings come to mind.This landscape was wateredwith treated sewage water.Does that change anything for you?I imagine it might.And that&#39;s OK.How we feel about thisis going to determine exactlyhow innovative we can be.
时间： 1:09
zh-cn:我想解释一下原理，先想一下我用了啥词？我是想表达我本可以用很污的词，比如“屎”和“尿”，然后我奶奶就会拒绝看这段视频。或者我也可以用幼稚的词汇，像“粑粑”和“尿尿”。额，我也可以用更科学的单词，类似于“尿液”和“粪便”然后我用了混合体。
en:And I want to explain how it works,but what words do I use?I mean, I can use profane wordslike &quot;shit&quot; and &quot;piss,&quot;and then my grandma won&#39;t watch the video.Or I can use childish wordslike &quot;poo&quot; and &quot;pee.&quot; Eh.Or I can use scientific wordslike &quot;excrement&quot; and &quot;feces.&quot; Humph.I&#39;ll use a mix.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:这是我能想到的全部了。（笑声）
en:It&#39;s all I got. (Laughs)
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:那么，在这片城郊，各种排泄物们和废水正涌向处于区域中心的处理池。其实与其说处理池，它看起来更像一个公园。那些处于所有砂砾层最下方的粪便们－不与其它成员接触－为沼泽植物提供了固体养料。在另外一头出去的清澈而干净的水会从地下运输用于灌溉每个人的庭院。所以即使他们身处沙漠之中，他们也可以拥有私人绿洲。
en:So, in this suburb,the poo and the pee and the wash waterare going to this treatment plantright in the middle of the community.It looks more like a parkthan a treatment plant.The poo at the very bottomof all those layers of gravel —not touching anyone —is providing solid foodfor those marsh plants.And the clean, clear waterthat comes out the other endis traveling undergroundto water each person&#39;s yard.So even though they&#39;re in a desert,they get their own personal oasis.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:这种方法被称为水资源综合治理，也可以说成全面治理或循环利用。你们想叫它什么都可以，但它与我们目前对卫生设施体系的看法（收集，处理，排放）是相悖的。在这套系统中，我们做的更好。我们一开始就设计成了循环利用。由于所有的东西都希望被再利用，直到现在我们还在继续规划。经常，这套系统能帮助创造美妙的空间。但是，对于这个体系来说，最重要的不是其科技原理，而是你们对它的感觉。你们希望在你们的后院中拥有它吗？为啥不呢？
en:This approach is calledIntegrated Water Management,or holistic or closed-loop.Whatever you want to call it,it&#39;s in conflict with the status quoof how we think about sanitation,which is contain, treat, push it away.But in this approach,we&#39;re doing one step better.We&#39;re designing for reusefrom the very beginning,because everything does get reused,only now we&#39;re planning for it.And often, that makes forreally beautiful spaces.But the most important thingabout this systemisn&#39;t the technicals of how it works.It&#39;s how you feel about it.Do you want this in your yard?Why not?
时间： 2:49
zh-cn:我对这个问题十分好奇。为什么我们没有在污水处理中看到革新？为什么革新迟迟不来？我真心关心这个问题，之后我为非营利性组织“科技投资新闻资讯网”工作。我们想要提高高承受性建筑及其应用的采纳度。我们想拥抱更多革新。但是很多情况却是，目录上所有革新当中，那些能够帮助我们生活更美好的，最终往往不合法。如今的法规和条例都是基于假设所写。那些优质实践永远都是优质的，伴随着的只是不断叠加的升级工程。但是创新不总是叠加的。事实证明，我们对任何新技术的看法会进入到我们生活的方方面面：我们讨论它的时候，我们鼓励他人的时候，我们的笑话，甚至条例当中……这将最终决定我们能富有多少革新精神。
en:I got really curious about this question.Why don&#39;t we see moreinnovation in sanitation?Why isn&#39;t that kind of thingthe new normal?And I care so much about this question,that I work for a nonprofit called Recode.We want to accelerate adoptionof sustainable buildingand development practices.We want more innovation.But a lot of times,whole categories of innovation —ones that can help uslive more beautifully —turn out to be illegal.Today&#39;s regulations and codeswere written under the assumptionthat best practiceswould remain best practices,with incremental updates forever and ever.But innovation isn&#39;t always incremental.It turns out, how we feelabout any particular new techniquegets into everything we do:how we talk about it,how we encourage people to study,our jokes, our codes ...And it ultimately determineshow innovative we can be.
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:这也是我们不愿在卫生设施体系当中革新的第一个理由。我们在一定程度上是不愿讨论卫生体系的，这也是我被如此频繁的被称为“大便女皇”的原因。第二个理由是：我们认为这个问题在美国这儿已经被解决了。但事实并非如此在美国我们依然会因为饮用含有粪便成分的阴沟水而生病。每年有700万人因此生病，一年会有900人死于此因。但我们并没有运用一个更加彻底有效的方法来改善现状。也就是说，我们并没有解决问题。
en:So, that&#39;s the first reasonwe don&#39;t innovate in sanitation.We&#39;re kind of uncomfortabletalking about sanitation,that&#39;s why I&#39;ve gotten called&quot;The Poo Princess&quot; so much.The second reason is:we think the problem is solvedhere in the US.But not so.Here in the US we still get sickfrom drinking shit in our sewage water.Seven million people get sick every year,900 die annually.And we&#39;re not taking a holisticapproach to making it better.So we&#39;re not solving it.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:在我住的地方：俄勒冈州，波特兰市，我都无法回应你在雨季游泳的感受，因为我们时常把未处理过的污水直接倒进河里。我们的雨水和污水会进入相同的处理池，这样，过多的雨水就会进入河流之中。波特兰市在这件事上并不孤独。40%的市政当局在自述汇报中指出曾倾倒未处理或仅部分处理的污水进入水网。
en:Where I live in Portland, Oregon,I can&#39;t take Echo for a swimduring the rainy season,because we dump raw sewagesometimes into our river.Our rainwater and our sewagego to the same treatment plant.Too much rain overflows into the river.And Portland is not alone here.Forty percent of municipalities self-reportdumping raw or partially treatedsewage into our waterways.
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:另一件当下令人不悦的事是我们的排泄物们一半跑去灌溉农场了，另一半则被火化或是填埋了。我对此很失望，因为我们每天的便便当中其实含有惊人的养分。与猪的粪便是类同的。我们是杂食动物，它们也是。想像一下你的排泄物对于一棵树来说就是一杯奶昔
en:The other bummer going on herewith our status quois that half of all of your poop and peeis going to fertilize farmland.The other half is being incineratedor land-filled.And that&#39;s a bummer to me,because there are amazing nutrientsin your daily doody.It is comparable to pig manure;we&#39;re omnivores, they&#39;re omnivores.Think of your poo and peeas a health smoothie for a tree.
时间： 5:11
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:其实还有一件令人不悦的事，那就是我们正在迅速地把我们摄入体内的药物转入水网当中。中等水平的废水处理池只有能力移除废水中的一半药物。另一半就心安理得的从另一侧出去了。想一想由各种药物成分性激素、类固醇、维柯丁（一种止痛药）构成的鸡尾酒会对一条鱼，对一只狗，一个孩子造成怎样的影响？
en:The other bummer going on hereis that we&#39;re quickly movingall the drugs we take into our waterways.The average wastewater treatment plantcan remove maybe half of the drugsthat come in.The other half goesright out the other side.Consider what a cocktailof pharmaceuticals —hormones, steroids, Vicodin —does to a fish,to a dog,to a child.
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:但这个问题不单单只是它本身。如果能够翻过这一页，我们就能找到一条途径，它能帮我们解决许多别的问题。我希望你们能够接受这个想法。设想一下我将要展示给你的东西，这些科技，还有这样的态度：“我们将要拯救这一切。让我们把它设计的更美吧”－致先进的如厕技术。
en:But this isn&#39;t just some problemthat we need to contain.If we flip this around,we can create a resourcethat can solve so manyof our other problems.And I want to get youcomfortable with this idea,so imagine the things I&#39;m goingto show you, these technologies,and this attitude that says,&quot;We&#39;re going to reuse this.Let&#39;s design to make it beautiful&quot; —as advanced potty training.
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:我以为你们已经做好心理准备了。我认为我们的文化已经为先进如厕技术做好准备。这其中有三个重要的理由。第一：这能为我们的食物施肥。我们每个人都产生能够肥沃我们一半甚至全部食物的排泄物，具体取决于我们的食谱。我们的便便为什么是深棕色的？因为无机物，细菌。都是碳如果我们把这些碳弄进土壤里，它们将会与土壤中的其它矿物质，养分结合。更加健康的食物。哇啦！更加健康的人们。化肥从定义上来讲是不含碳的。想像假如我们能够把这些生物养分全部放进土壤，我们也许就不需要依赖于化石燃料基肥料或是老远拉来的矿物质了。我们会节约多少能量啊。
en:I think you&#39;re ready for it.I think we as a culture are readyfor advanced potty training.And there are three greatreasons to enroll today.Number one:we can fertilize our food.Each one of us is poopingand peeing somethingthat could fertilize halfor maybe all of our food,depending on our diet.That dark brown poo in the toiletis dark brown because of what?Dead stuff, bacteria.That&#39;s carbon.And carbon, if we&#39;re gettingthat into the soil,is going to bind to the other mineralsand nutrients in there.Boom! Healthier food.Voilà! Healthier people.Chemical fertilizers by definitiondon&#39;t have carbon in them.Imagine if we could move our animal manureand our human manure to our soil,we might not need to relyon fossil fuel-based fertilizers,mine minerals from far away.Imagine how much energy we could save.
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:现在，我们其中的一些人也许正担心着工业有害物质污染循环圈。这确实需要被强调。但是我们需要把因为讨论到排泄物而感到的不适与其区分开来。只有这样我们才能平静地讨论如何循环利用它们，还有哪些东西我们不希望循环使用。还有这个：如果我们改变了卫生设施体系，我们将开始减缓气候变化。还记得粪便中的碳吗？如果那笔碳进账土壤银行，它们会帮助吸收我们自己扔进空气中地二氧化碳。这就会帮助我们减缓全球变暖。
en:Now, some of us are concernedabout industrial pollutantscontaminating this reuse cycle.That can be addressed.But we need to separate our discomfortabout talking about poo and peeso we can calmly talkabout how we want to reuse itand what things we don&#39;t want to reuse.And get this:if we change our approach to sanitation,we can start to slow down climate change.Remember that carbon in the poop?If we can get that into our soil bank,it&#39;s going to start to absorbcarbon dioxide that we put into the air.And that could helpslow down global warming.
时间： 7:50
zh-cn:我想要给你们展示这些英勇地灵魂，就是那些有勇气去拥抱这种先进如厕技术地人们。所以这些在新墨西哥州地人们－他们为什么要这么做呢？因为他们身处沙漠之中吗？是为了省钱吗？当然。但更重要地是他们会因为目睹卷入厕所的是一种资源而感到更舒心。
en:I want to show you some brave soulswho&#39;ve had the courage to embracethis advanced potty training approach.So those folks in New Mexico —why did they do it?&#39;Cause they&#39;re in a desert?&#39;Cause they save money? Yeah.But more importantly,they felt comfortableseeing what was goingdown the toilet as a resource.
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:这是在俄勒冈州，波特兰市的一个普通房子，唯一特别之处是拥有一个堆粪厕所。能够逐渐把所有排泄物变为土壤改良剂。产生的洗手水，洗澡水都会进入地下进入一系列封闭槽中，然后用于灌溉山下的果园。当他们去申报这个项目时，被俄勒冈州所禁止了。但却在相邻的五个州得到通过。那是我所在的组织“科技投资新闻资讯网”的第一次修该条例运动。
en:Here&#39;s an average housein Portland, Oregon.This house is specialbecause they have a composting toiletturning all their poo and pee,over time, into a soil amendment.Their wash water, their shower water,is going undergroundto a series of mulch basins,and then watering that orchard downhill.When they went to get this permitted,it wasn&#39;t allowed in Oregon.But it was allowedin five other states nearby.That was Recode&#39;s — my organization&#39;s —first code-change campaign.
时间： 8:45
zh-cn:这有一个水资源综合治理的很好的例子，它也是最便宜的方法。这是波特兰市中心的三栋高层住宅楼，它们不会因为谈及下水系统感到脸红。这怎么说？嗯，他们的洗澡水会被再利用去冲马桶，冷却机械系统，还有浇灌景观植物。当整栋楼已经充分利用了所有的东西就是曾经的粪便们他们已经被植物和细菌净化过了，才会进入正下方的地下水系统。这一切要比更新周围的污水基础设施要便宜很多。
en:Here&#39;s a great example wherethe Integrated Water Management approachwas the cheapest.This is three high-rise residentialbuildings in downtown Portland,and they&#39;re not flushingto the sewer system.How?Well, their wash wateris getting reused to flush toilets,cool mechanical systems,water the landscape.And then once the buildinghas thoroughly used everything —aka, shat in it —it&#39;s treated to highest standardright on-site by plants and bacteria,and then infiltratedinto the groundwater right below.And all that was cheaperthan updating the surroundingsewer infrastructure.
时间： 9:27
zh-cn:所以我们来到了应该为改变而感到激动的最后一个原因：我们可以节省一大笔钱。下面是这类技术在俄勒冈州第一个通过法令的例子。勇敢而心胸开阔的人们在圆桌会议上阔谈到：“对，那坨粑粑听起来很有道理。”
en:So that&#39;s the last reasonwe should get really excitedabout doing things differently:we can save a lot of money.This was the first permitof its kind in Oregon.Brave and open-minded peoplesat down and felt comfortable saying,&quot;Yeah, that shit makes sense.&quot;
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 9:47
zh-cn:“我们放手干吧！”
en:&quot;Let&#39;s do it.&quot;
时间： 9:48
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:你们知道吗？
en:You know?
时间： 9:50
zh-cn:我不断的拿出各种例子，其中每个人都在重复使用每一样东西。为什么呢？当我们目睹了这些老化着的器械然后我们看到了更新它们的价格，三分之一的钱将花费在更新城市地下管道上。所以作为我们去整修，去翻新，把它们换成兼备治理和循环的设备也许更合理。
en:I keep showing exampleswhere everyone&#39;s reusingeverything on-site.Why?Well, when we look at our aginginfrastructure — and it is old —and we look at the cost of updating it,three-quarters of that cost is justthe pipes snaking through our city.So as we build anew, as we renovate,it might make more senseto treat and reuse everything on-site.
时间：10:14
zh-cn:旧金山就意识到了这一点：他们在家装当中投资退税活动，以此来拯救那些洗浴用水和雨水。人们用这些水去浇灌他们的后院儿，因为从整体来说这样真的能节约很多水。但是为什么说这些项目都很创新呢？从钱的角度来说，是一方面。其实更重要的，还是他们想到能够拥有先进如厕技术。
en:San Francisco realized that it made senseto invest in rebates for every householdto reuse their wash waterand their rainwaterto water the backyard,because the amount of water they wouldsave as a community would be so big.But why were allthese projects so innovative?The money piece, yeah.But more importantly,they felt comfortable with this ideaof advanced potty training.
时间：10:40
zh-cn:想象如果我们能够运用全新的卫生设施体系，就拿已有的例子途径来说，太阳能。思考一下它吧，太阳能曾经十分稀少且价格高昂。现今它是我们能源链上的重要一员。它也逐渐表现出适应性。我们现在拥有与太阳能类似的能源而且并不随地球阴晴而改变。是什么驱动了这些创新？是我们人类。我们正在谈论能源。这听起来很酷炫。有一些人甚至在谈论当下能源紧张的问题。我们邀请我们当中最棒最聪明的那批去解决这个问题更加有效的太阳能板，更高能的电池。
en:Imagine if we embracedinnovation for sanitationthe way we have for, say, solar power.Think about it — solar power usedto be uncommon and unaffordable.Now it&#39;s more a partof our web of power than ever before.And it&#39;s creating resiliency.We now have sources of power like the sunthat don&#39;t vary with our earthly dramas.What&#39;s driving all that innovation?It&#39;s us.We&#39;re talking about energy.It&#39;s cool to talk about energy.Some folks are even talkingabout the problemswith the limited resourceswhere our current energy is coming from.We encourage our best and brightestto work on this issue —better solar panels,better batteries, everything.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:现在让我们来讨论一下我们饮用水的来源吧，其实就是我们排泄物的去处。如果我们能够克服对于谈论这个话题的不适，我们就能够创造出埋下未来金矿的东西。每当你们冲马桶时，我都希望你们能够思考，“我的排泄物们都去哪儿了？他们会被高价雇佣吗？”
en:So let&#39;s talk about whereour drinking water is coming from,where our poo and pee are actually going.If we can get over this discomfortwith this entire topic,we could create somethingthat creates our future goldmine.Every time you flush the toilet,I want you to think,&quot;Where is my poop and pee going?Will they be gainfully employed?&quot;
时间：11:51
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:52
zh-cn:“或者他们会在水道当中制造大动乱吗？”
en:&quot;Or are they going to be wreakinghavoc in some waterway?&quot;
时间：11:55
zh-cn:如果你们不清楚的话，就要去弄清楚。当你们不喜爱答案的时候，就弄明白如何才能与管辖这件事的人联系上，就说你们掌握先进如厕技术，你们已经对于循环利用有充分准备。你们所有人的感受将会决定我们究竟能多么富有创新精神。
en:If you don&#39;t know, find out.And if you don&#39;t like the answer,figure out how you can communicateto those who can drive this changethat you have advanced potty training,that you are ready for reuse.How all of you feelis going to determine exactlyhow innovative we can be.
时间：12:13
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you so much.
时间：12:14
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
