时间： 0:11
zh-cn:很多年以前我的阿富汗之旅始于我的祖国－波兰的东部边境我走过祖母讲过的故事里的树林一片到处是坟墓的土地20世纪的时候那里有成千上万的人被杀害或流放
en:My travels to Afghanistanbegan many, many years agoon the eastern border of my country,my homeland, Poland.I was walking through the forestsof my grandmother&#39;s tales.A land where every field hides a grave,where millions of peoplehave been deported or killedin the 20th century.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:在这毁灭之地的背后我找到了这儿的灵魂我遇到谦卑的人们倾听他们的祷告享用他们的食物我这样一直向东走了二十年－从东欧走到了中亚－越过了高加索山脉中东北非俄罗斯遇见更多谦卑的人倾听他们的祷告并分享他们的食物这是我前往阿富汗的原因
en:Behind the destruction,I found a soul of places.I met humble people.I heard their prayerand ate their bread.Then I have been walking East for 20 years —from Eastern Europe to Central Asia —through the Caucasus Mountains,Middle East,North Africa,Russia.And I ever met more humble people.And I shared their bread and their prayer.This is why I went to Afghanistan.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:有天我走过奥克苏斯河上的桥只身一人徒步前行阿富汗士兵看到我无比惊讶甚至忘了在我护照上盖章但他给了我一杯茶我明白他惊讶于我的毫无装备
en:One day, I crossed the bridgeover the Oxus River.I was alone on foot.And the Afghan soldier was so surprised to see methat he forgot to stamp my passport.But he gave me a cup of tea.And I understoodthat his surprise was my protection.
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:我在旅途中骑过马，牦牛，坐过卡车，搭过便车一路从伊朗边境一直到瓦罕走廊这途中我找到了光明，找到阿富汗的隐匿之光我唯一的武器就是我的笔记本和莱卡我听过苏菲人的祈祷－谦卑的穆斯林承受着塔利班的仇恨这隐匿的河流连接着从直布罗陀直到印度的神秘清真寺里 心怀敬畏的外国人接受祝福和泪水的洗礼并受到欢迎
en:So I have been walking and traveling,by horses, by yak, by truck, by hitchhiking,from Iran&#39;s borderto the bottom, to the edge of the Wakhan Corridor.And in this wayI could find noor, the hidden light of Afghanistan.My only weaponwas my notebook and my Leica.I heard prayers of the Sufi —humble Muslims,hated by the Taliban.Hidden river,interconnected with the mysticismfrom Gibraltar to India.The mosque where the respectful foreigneris showered with blessingsand with tears,and welcomed as a gift.
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:对于这个国家和我们假装保护的人们我们了解多少对于那些只能用鸦片来止痛和抵御饥饿的遥远村庄我们又了解多少这些是鸦片成瘾的人们在喀布尔的屋顶上这是阿富汗战后10年她们是牧民女孩儿成为阿富汗生意人的妓女
en:What do we knowabout the country and the peoplethat we pretend to protect,about the villageswhere the only one medicineto kill the pain and to stop the hungeris opium?These are opium-addicted peopleon the roofs of Kabul10 years after the beginning of our war.These are the nomad girlswho became prostitutes for Afghan businessmen.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:战后10年 我们对这些女性又了解多少？她们穿着尼龙袋子产自中国的叫做布卡有一天我看到了阿富汗最大的学校一个女子学校13,000名女孩子在地下室里学习房间里到处是蝎子还有她们对学习的热爱我不禁流泪了
en:What do we know about the women10 years after the war?Clothed in this nylon bag,made in China,with the name of burqa.I saw one day,the largest school in Afghanistan,a girls&#39; school.13,000 girlsstudying herein the rooms underground,full of scorpions.And their love [for studying]was so big that I cried.
时间： 3:48
zh-cn:我们对在巴尔赫 因为把女儿送进学校而日日饱受塔利班死亡威胁的人们又了解多少？这个地区充满危险，到处是塔利班势力是他们带来了危险
en:What do we knowabout the death threats by the Talibannailed on the doorsof the people who dare to send their daughters to school as in Balkh?The region is not secure, but full of the Taliban,and they did it.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:我的目标是代替这些沉默的人们发出呐喊昭示巨大阴谋幕帘背后的隐匿之光让这个被媒体和解决世界冲突的先驱者遗忘的世界得到光明
en:My aim is to give a voiceto the silent people,to show the hidden lightsbehind the curtain of the great game,the small worlds ignored by the mediaand the prophets of a global conflict.
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thanks.
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
