时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在过去几年里我让自己处于既艰苦又有些危险的境地。我去了监狱 —艰苦我在一个煤矿工作过 —危险。我在战争地区拍摄影片 —既艰苦又危险。我曾经在30十天里只吃这一种食品 —一开始很有意思到了中间，有一点艰苦，而最后，相当危险。实际上，我职业生涯的大部分时间里我一直让自己身处于恶劣的情况之中目的在于通过更吸引人，更有趣的方式来研究社会问题希望能把这些问题以娱乐节目的形式呈现在观众面前。于是，当我得知自己将来到这里做关于品牌和赞助的TED演讲我意识到我想要玩点新花样
en:I have spent the past few yearsputting myself into situationsthat are usually very difficultand at the same time somewhat dangerous.I went to prison —difficult.I worked in a coal mine —dangerous.I filmed in war zones —difficult and dangerous.And I spent 30 days eating nothing but this —fun in the beginning,little difficult in the middle, very dangerous in the end.In fact, most of my career,I&#39;ve been immersing myselfinto seemingly horrible situationsfor the whole goal of tryingto examine societal issuesin a way that make them engaging, that make them interesting,that hopefully break them down in a waythat make them entertaining and accessible to an audience.So when I knew I was coming hereto do a TED Talk that was going to look at the world of branding and sponsorship,I knew I would want to do something a little different.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:大家可能有人听说过几周以前，我在Ebay上登了个广告又在Facebook和Twitter上发了一些信息我让人们有机会购买我2011年TED演讲的冠名权（笑声）没错，某个幸运的个人或公司盈利性或非盈利性将会得到此生唯一的机会 —因为我敢肯定克里斯·安德森决不会允许这样的事发生第二次 —（笑声）来购买你正观看的这场演讲的冠名权那时候，这场演讲还没有确定标题，也没有多少内容也没有给出任何与主题相关的提示所以你所得到的是：你的大名在这里：您对我的TED演讲主题一无所知而，其内容决定了我最终是否会把它搞砸假如我让您和贵公司丢人了，那可能性就大了但话说回来这可是打广告的绝佳机会。（笑声）你知道有多少人在看TED演讲吗？人可多了顺便说一句，这只是演讲的暂定标题。（笑声）尽管做出了这样的申明我还是相信有人会买下冠名权
en:So as some of you may or may not have heard,a couple weeks ago, I took out an ad on eBay.I sent out some Facebook messages,some Twitter messages,and I gave people the opportunity to buy the naming rightsto my 2011 TED Talk.(Laughter)That&#39;s right, some lucky individual, corporation,for-profit or non-profit,was going to get the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity —because I&#39;m sure Chris Anderson will never let it happen again —(Laughter)to buy the naming rightsto the talk you&#39;re watching right now,that at the time didn&#39;t have a title, didn&#39;t really have a lot of contentand didn&#39;t really give much hintas to what the subject matter would actually be.So what you were getting was this:Your name here presents:My TED Talk that you have no idea what the subject isand, depending on the content, could ultimately blow up in your face,especially if I make you or your company look stupid for doing it.But that being said,it&#39;s a very good media opportunity.(Laughter)You know how many people watch these TED Talks?It&#39;s a lot.That&#39;s just a working title, by the way.(Laughter)So even with that caveat,I knew that someone would buy the naming rights.
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:如果一年以前你问我我可不会像现在这么理直气壮但是，在我正在筹备的新项目，也就是我新的影片中我们要对营销界，广告界一探究竟正如我之前所说的这几年里，我总让自己陷入可怕的处境之中但与此相比，最让我受到磨练最让我尝尽苦头也是最为危险的经历莫过于与这些人共处一室了（笑声）你们看，我有这样一个电影创意
en:Now if you&#39;d have asked me that a year ago,I wouldn&#39;t have been able to tell you that with any certainty.But in the new project that I&#39;m working on, my new film,we examine the world of marketing, advertising.And as I said earlier,I put myself in some pretty horrible situations over the years,but nothing could prepare me, nothing could ready me,for anything as difficultor as dangerousas going into the rooms with these guys.(Laughter)You see, I had this idea for a movie.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:（视频）摩根·斯普尔洛克：我想拍摄这样一部影片讲述广告植入，市场营销，和广告宣传而影片的赞助就来自广告植入，市场营销，和广告宣传这部电影的名称将定为“史上最卖座电影”“史上最卖座电影”从上到下，从头到尾都布满了品牌 —从放在影片名称前的赞助商是品牌X。这个品牌，Qualcomm Stadium史泰普中心...这些人的生活与这部电影恒久地结合在了一起－－永远这部电影探索的是这样一个观念 — 迈克尔·坎森：这有些重复）有些什么？（迈克尔·坎森：这有些重复）恒久，永远？我说话常常意思重复（迈克尔·坎森：我就是随口说说）这是为了强调它是“恒久。永远。”但我们不仅会标出某某品牌赞助商还要在影片中将该品牌的每一系列产品都推销出去这样，我们卖出一双鞋，这双鞋就成为史上最合脚的鞋...“史上最卖座电影”中的车是史上最好开的车史上最好喝的饮料，进而使影片成为“史上最卖座电影”
en:(Video) Morgan Spurlock: What I want to do is make a filmall about product placement, marketing and advertising,where the entire film is fundedby product placement, marketing and advertising.So the movie will be called &quot;The Greatest Movie Ever Sold.&quot;So what happens in &quot;The Greatest Movie Ever Sold,&quot;is that everything from top to bottom, from start to finish,is branded from beginning to end —from the above-the-title sponsor that you&#39;ll see in the movie,which is brand X.Now this brand, the Qualcomm Stadium,the Staples Center ...these people will be married to the film in perpetuity — forever.And so the film explores this whole idea — (Michael Kassan: It&#39;s redundant.)It&#39;s what? (MK: It&#39;s redundant.) In perpetuity, forever?I&#39;m a redundant person. (MK: I&#39;m just saying.)That was more for emphasis.It was, &quot;In perpetuity. Forever.&quot;But not only are we going to have the brand X title sponsor,but we&#39;re going to make sure we sell out every category we can in the film.So maybe we sell a shoe and it becomes the greatest shoe you ever wore ...the greatest car you ever drove from &quot;The Greatest Movie Ever Sold,&quot;the greatest drink you&#39;ve ever had, courtesy of &quot;The Greatest Movie Ever Sold.&quot;
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:泽维尔·柯查尔：那么就是说，不仅仅只是展示品牌是人们生活的一部分而是让这些品牌赞助这部电影？（斯普尔洛克：让这些品牌赞助这部电影）
en:Xavier Kochhar: So the idea is,beyond just showing that brands are a part of your life,but actually get them to finance the film? (MS: Get them to finance the film.)
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：实际上，我们会展现营销的全过程这部影片的拍摄目的在于透明度在影片中，你将见证品牌营销的全过程这就是整部电影的理念从头至尾，贯穿影片希望CEG能够助我一臂之力
en:MS: And actually we show the whole process of how does it work.The goal of this whole film is transparency.You&#39;re going to see the whole thing take place in this movie.So that&#39;s the whole concept,the whole film, start to finish.And I would love for CEG to help make it happen.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:罗伯特. 弗里德曼：有意思的是最初听到这样想法时我认为这是在对观众表示最崇高的敬意
en:Robert Friedman: You know it&#39;s funny,because when I first hear it,it is the ultimate respectfor an audience.
时间： 4:22
zh-cn:但我不知道人们能不能接受
en:Guy: I don&#39;t know how receptivepeople are going to be to it, though.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:泽维尔·柯查尔：对此你有没有一个预期 —我不想用“立场”这个词，因为它带有消极色彩－－你觉得这部影片产生来什么样的结果？（斯普尔洛克：不知道）
en:XK: Do you have a perspective —I don&#39;t want to use &quot;angle&quot; because that has a negative connotation —but do you know how this is going to play out? (MS: No idea.)
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:大卫. 柯恩：拍摄这部影片需要多少钱？
en:David Cohn: How much money does it take to do this?
时间： 4:36
zh-cn:一百五十万 （大卫·柯恩：好）
en:MS: 1.5 million. (DC: Okay.)
时间： 4:39
zh-cn:约翰·卡门：我认为想要与这些品牌打交道会非常困难但是，寻求这些大品牌的支持肯定值得一试
en:John Kamen: I think that you&#39;re going to have a hard time meeting with them,but I think it&#39;s certainly worth pursuinga couple big, really obvious brands.
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:泽维尔·柯查尔：谁知道啊，你的电影拍出来之后我们可能成了一群胡吹海侃的白痴
en:XK: Who knows, maybe by the time your film comes out,we look like a bunch of blithering idiots.
时间： 4:50
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：你觉得他们会做出什么回答？
en:MS: What do you think the response is going to be?
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:斯图尔特. 鲁德尔弗：他们大部分会拒绝
en:Stuart Ruderfer: The responses mostly will be &quot;no.&quot;
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：他们拒绝的原因是电影本身还是因为我本人？
en:MS: But is it a tough sell because of the filmor a tough sell because of me?
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:约翰·卡门：都有
en:JK: Both.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：情况不容乐观啊先生们，你们能帮我吗？我需要帮助。
en:MS: ... Meaning not so optimistic.So, sir, can you help me? I need help.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:迈克尔·坎森：我可以帮你
en:MK: I can help you.
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：太好了。（迈克尔·坎森：很好。）太棒了
en:MS: Okay. (MK: Good.)Awesome.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:迈克尔·坎森：我们必须锁定品牌
en:MK: We&#39;ve gotta figure out which brands.
时间： 5:14
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：没错。（迈克尔·坎森：这很困难。）你将要与之打交道的那些人......
en:MS: Yeah. (MK: That&#39;s the challenge.)When you look at the people you deal with ..
时间： 5:19
zh-cn:迈克尔·坎森：我们有一些人脉。（斯普尔洛克： 好的。）把摄像机关掉
en:MK: We&#39;ve got some places we can go. (MS: Okay.)Turn the camera off.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：我以为，“把摄像机关掉”意思是进行私下讨论结果，它的意思是“我们不想和你的电影扯上任何关系。”
en:MS: I thought &quot;Turn the camera off&quot;meant, &quot;Let&#39;s have an off-the-record conversation.&quot;Turns out it really means,&quot;We want nothing to do with your movie.&quot;
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：就这样，这些公司一个接着一个，统统消失了没有一个人愿意为这部电影出力我非常吃惊他们对这个项目居然没有任何兴趣我大吃一惊，我以为，打广告的理念与实质就是把你的产品摆在尽可能多人的面前让尽可能多的人见识到你的产品尤其在现今世界新老媒介纵横交错在支离破碎的媒体天下难道不应该采用这样一种新式的传送方式把信息传递给广大民众吗。不，这只是我个人的想法
en:MS: And just like that, one by one,all of these companies suddenly disappeared.None of them wanted anything to do with this movie.I was amazed.They wanted absolutely nothing to do with this project.And I was blown away, because I thought the whole concept, the idea of advertising,was to get your product out in front of as many people as possible,to get as many people to see it as possible.Especially in today&#39;s world,this intersection of new media and old mediaand the fractured media landscape,isn&#39;t the idea to getthat new buzz-worthy delivery vehiclethat&#39;s going to get that message to the masses?No, that&#39;s what I thought.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:问题在于，你们看我的想法有一个致命的错误这个错误在这里。实际上不，这可一点错都没有这不是问题所在这是可以接受的但是，这幅图代表了其中的问题你瞧，如果你在谷歌图片中搜索“transparency（透明化）”这就是 —（笑声）（掌声）这就是排在搜索结果前列的图片之一我喜欢你的作风，谢尔盖·布林（谷歌创始人之一）（笑声）这就是问题所在：透明化 —决不弄虚作假透明公开简单易懂具有信息可见、易于获取的特性与商业运作息息相关－－最后一项可能是最大的问题你们看，最近我们经常听到透明化这个词我们的政治家们，我们的总统甚至首席执行官们都在使用这个词然而，轮到付诸实践的时候情况陡然发生了变化为什么？透明化是洪水猛兽 —（熊吼）就像这只被定格但还在吼叫的熊（众人笑）它令人捉摸不透－－（音乐）（笑声）正如这条奇怪的乡间小路看起来凶险异常（笑声）那么还有什么是凶险的？吃掉整整一大碗Cool Whip冰淇淋（笑声）相当凶险
en:But the problem was, you see,my idea had one fatal flaw,and that flaw was this.Actually no, that was not the flaw whatsoever.That wouldn&#39;t have been a problem at all.This would have been fine.But what this image represents was the problem.See, when you do a Google image search for transparency,this is —-(Laughter)(Applause)This is one of the first images that comes up.So I like the way you roll, Sergey Brin. No.(Laughter)This is was the problem: transparency —free from pretense or deceit;easily detected or seen through;readily understood;characterized by visibility or accessibility of information,especially concerning business practices —that last line being probably the biggest problem.You see, we hear a lot about transparency these days.Our politicians say it, our president says it,even our CEO&#39;s say it.But suddenly when it comes down to becoming a reality,something suddenly changes.But why? Well, transparency is scary —(Roar)like that odd, still-screaming bear.(Laughter)It&#39;s unpredictable —(Music)(Laughter)like this odd country road.And it&#39;s also very risky.(Laughter)What else is risky?Eating an entire bowl of Cool Whip.(Laughter)That&#39;s very risky.
时间： 7:51
zh-cn:当我开始与公司进行对话告诉他们我们想要讲述这样一个故事他们说：“哦，我们当然想让你们讲故事啦我们希望你们讲故事，我们只是希望你们讲我们的故事。”当我还是个孩子我的父亲有时候会发现我在扯谎－－他在用他一贯的方式盯着我看－－他会说：“儿子，每一个故事都有三个面。这里有你的故事，有我的故事，还有真实的故事。”你们看，我们希望通过这部电影来讲述真实的故事而只有一家公司愿意帮助我－－因为我与约翰·邦德和理查德·科尔申波姆有多年的交情－－我意识到，求人不如求己我必须跳过中间环节带着我的团队直接与那些公司交涉你突然间开始意识到－－或当我开始意识到－－你开始与这些公司对话时对你自身品牌的理解是一个普遍问题
en:Now when I started talking to companiesand telling them that we wanted to tell this story,and they said, &quot;No, we want you to tell a story.We want you to tell a story,but we just want to tell our story.&quot;See, when I was a kidand my father would catch me in some sort of a lie —and there he is giving me the look he often gave me —he would say, &quot;Son, there&#39;s three sides to every story.There&#39;s your story,there&#39;s my storyand there&#39;s the real story.&quot;Now you see, with this film, we wanted to tell the real story.But with only one company, one agency willing to help me —and that&#39;s only because I knew John Bond and Richard Kirshenbaum for years —I realized that I would have to go on my own,I&#39;d have to cut out the middlemanand go to the companies myself with all of my team.So what you suddenly started to realize —or what I started to realize —is that when you started having conversations with these companies,the idea of understanding your brand is a universal problem.
时间： 8:45
zh-cn:（视频）斯普尔洛克：我有两位朋友是拍摄好莱坞大电影的我还认识像我一样制作小成本独立电影的朋友而我那些拍摄好莱坞电影的朋友告诉我，他们的电影之所以成功得益于他们的品牌赞助商而我那些制作小成本独立电影的朋友说：“我们怎么样才能完成这些好莱坞大电影的制作呢？”而这样一部电影就叫做“史上最卖座电影”那么在影片中我们将如何看待Ban这个品牌呢？每当我准备出门，每当我打开橱柜你们都会看到Ban香体液每当我与某人进行会谈我会说：“今天会谈，你足够清新了吗？你准备好了吗？你看起来有点紧张。我来帮你放松一下。或许你可以在会谈之前使用一些。”我们就把这些怡人的香体液摆出来不管是“四溢花香”或是“天堂风韵”总有一款适合您我们会同时面向男士女士们推出这些产品－－固体型，走珠型，或膏状，各种香体液一应俱全这就是大致情况现在我会回答你们的任何问题好让你们进一步了解情况
en:(Video) MS: I have friends who make great big, giant Hollywood films,and I have friends who make little independent films like I make.And the friends of mine who make big, giant Hollywood moviessay the reason their films are so successfulis because of the brand partners that they have.And then my friends who make small independent filmssay, &quot;Well, how are we supposed to competewith these big, giant Hollywood movies?&quot;And the movie is called&quot;The Greatest Movie Ever Sold.&quot;So how specifically will we see Ban in the film?Any time I&#39;m ready to go, any time I open up my medicine cabinet,you will see Ban deodorant.While anytime I do an interview with someone,I can say, &quot;Are you fresh enough for this interview?Are you ready? You look a little nervous.I want to help you calm down.So maybe you should put some one before the interview.&quot;So we&#39;ll offer one of these fabulous scents.Whether it&#39;s a &quot;Floral Fusion&quot; or a &quot;Paradise Winds,&quot;they&#39;ll have their chance.We will have them geared for both male or female —solid, roll-on or stick, whatever it may be.That&#39;s the two-cent tour.So now I can answer any of your questionsand give you the five-cent tour.
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:凯伦·弗兰克：我们是一个知名度较小的品牌就像你说到的小成本电影一样我们是一个刚起步的品牌我们不像其它大品牌那样财大气粗而进行这样的宣传－－你知道能够引起人们对Ban的关注－－这是吸引我们的地方
en:Karen Frank: We are a smaller brand.Much like you talked about being a smaller movie,we&#39;re very much a challenger brand.So we don&#39;t have the budgets that other brands have.So doing things like this — you know,remind people about Ban —is kind of why were interested in it.
时间： 9:58
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：你们会用哪些词来形容Ban这个品牌？Ban非常怎么样
en:MS: What are the words that you would use to describe Ban?Ban is blank.
时间：10:03
zh-cn:凯伦·弗兰克：问得好
en:KF: That&#39;s a great question.
时间：10:06
zh-cn:（众人笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:11
zh-cn:女人：尖端科技
en:Woman: Superior technology.
时间：10:13
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：科技不是最好的描述方式香体液是人们擦于腋下的产品
en:MS: Technology&#39;s not the way you want to describe somethingsomebody&#39;s putting in their armpit.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:男人：我们谈到了大胆，清新我想“清新”是这一系列产品的积极写照与“抑制体味，干爽舒适”相对应它让你感觉清新你如何让身体持久清新－－更加清新三倍清新这些都能产生积极效果
en:Man: We talk about bold, fresh.I think &quot;fresh&quot; is a great word that really spins this category into the positive,versus &quot;fights odor and wetness.&quot;It keeps you fresh.How do we keep you fresher longer — better freshness,more freshness, three times fresher.Things like that that are more of that positive benefit.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:那可是个身家几百万的企业集团啊那我呢？一个普通人怎么想？我有必要问问大街上的人们他们像我一样，是路人甲乙丙丁他们需要告诉他们自己的品牌
en:MS: And that&#39;s a multi-million dollar corporation.What about me? What about a regular guy?I need to go talk to the man on the street,the people who are like me, the regular Joes.They need to tell me about my brand.
时间：10:45
zh-cn:（视频）斯普尔洛克：你们会怎样描述你们的品牌？
en:(Video) MS: How would you guys describe your brand?
时间：10:49
zh-cn:男人：我的品牌？我不知道我喜欢非常好的服装
en:Man: Um, my brand?I don&#39;t know.I like really nice clothes.
时间：10:56
zh-cn:八十年代复古风结合滑板朋克风格除非今天是洗衣日
en:Woman: 80&#39;s revivalmeets skater-punk,unless it&#39;s laundry day.
时间：11:02
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：好，格里 ，什么是品牌？
en:MS: All right, what is brand Gerry?
时间：11:04
zh-cn:格里：与众不同 （斯普尔洛克：与众不同）
en:Gerry: Unique. (MS: Unique.)
时间：11:06
zh-cn:男人：我认为是我所特有的风格应该是“暗色迷情”我喜欢黑色灰色之类的事物我通常会戴一个配件比如太阳眼镜我还喜欢水晶配件
en:Man: I guess what kind of genre, style I amwould be like dark glamor.I like a lot of black colors,a lot of grays and stuff like that.But usually I have an accessory,like sunglasses,or I like crystal and things like that too.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:女人：如果丹是一个品牌那他可能会是一款经典的敞篷车就像梅塞德斯. 奔驰
en:Woman: If Dan were a brand,he might be a classic convertibleMercedes Benz.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:男人2：我的品牌我会叫它“不拘一格”
en:Man 2: The brand that I amis, I would call it casual fly.
时间：11:33
zh-cn:女人2：有点嬉皮，有点瑜伽有点布鲁克林女孩的味道—我不知道
en:Woman 2: Part hippie, part yogi,part Brooklyn girl — I don&#39;t know.
时间：11:37
zh-cn:男人3：我喜欢养宠物我的宠物玩具销往全国，甚至全世界我想这就是我的品牌在这个扭曲的小行业里，这就是我的品牌
en:Man 3: I&#39;m the pet guy.I sell pet toys all over the country, all over the world.So I guess that&#39;s my brand.In my warped little industry, that&#39;s my brand.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:男人4：我的品牌是“联邦快递”，我是送货的
en:Man 4: My brand is FedEx because I deliver the goods.
时间：11:49
zh-cn:男人5：“落破酗酒作家”牌这算吗？
en:Man 5: Failed writer-alcoholic brand.Is that something?
时间：11:53
zh-cn:律师：我的品牌是律师
en:Lawyer: I&#39;m a lawyer brand.
时间：11:59
zh-cn:汤姆：我是“汤姆牌”
en:Tom: I&#39;m Tom.
时间：12:02
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：可我们不能都成为“汤姆牌”，但我经常发现自己是“暗色迷情”和“不拘一格”的结合体
en:MS: Well we can&#39;t all be brand Tom, but I do often find myselfat the intersection of dark glamor and casual fly.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:10
zh-cn:我意识到，我需要的是一位专家我系一位能够读懂我内心所想、一位能够真正帮助我了解何为“品牌个性”的人于是我在匹兹堡找到了一家名为Olson Zaltman的公司他们帮助过雀巢，宝洁公司的Febreze，贺曼（Hallmark）等品牌发现他们的品牌个性如果他们能够帮助那些品牌，那么他们肯定能够帮助我
en:And what I realized is I needed an expert.I needed somebody who could get inside my head,somebody who could really help me understandwhat they call your &quot;brand personality.&quot;And so I found a company called Olson Zaltman in Pittsburg.They&#39;ve helped companies like Nestle, Febreze, Hallmarkdiscover that brand personality.If they could do it for them, surely they could do it for me.
时间：12:28
zh-cn:（视频）艾比加尔：你把图片都带来了对吗？
en:(Video) Abigail: You brought your pictures, right?
时间：12:30
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：我带了。第一张图片是我的全家福
en:MS: I did. The very first pictureis a picture of my family.
时间：12:34
zh-cn:艾比加尔：请告诉我这张照片跟你对自己感想有什么联系
en:A: So tell me a little bit how it relates to your thoughts and feelings about who you are.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：这些人帮助我形成了对世界的看法
en:MS: These are the people who shape the way I look at the world.
时间：12:39
zh-cn:艾比加尔：这是个什么样的世界
en:A: Tell me about this world.
时间：12:41
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：这个世界？我认为你的世界就是你生活的世界－－你身边的所有人，你的朋友，家人你的生活方式，你的工作这一切都有一个生根发芽发芽的地方而对于我这个地方就是我在西弗吉尼亚州的家
en:MS: This world? I think your world is the world that you live in —like people who are around you, your friends, your family,the way you live your life, the job you do.All those things stemmed and started from one place,and for me they stemmed and started with my family in West Virginia.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:艾比加尔：下一张图呢？
en:A: What&#39;s the next one you want to talk about?
时间：12:56
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：下一张：这是我最开心的一天
en:MS: The next one: This was the best day ever.
时间：12:58
zh-cn:艾比加尔：这与你对自己的看法有什么联系呢？
en:A: How does this relate to your thoughts and feelings about who you are?
时间：13:00
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：这与我想要成为什么样的人有关我喜欢新奇的事物我喜欢奇怪的事物
en:MS: It&#39;s like, who do I want to be?I like things that are different.I like things that are weird. I like weird things.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:艾比加尔：告诉我“为什么”－－这对我们有什么帮助？那把弯刀代表什么？你现在出于哪个孕育阶段？重整旗鼓为什么那么重要？红色代表什么？请解释一下这个部分说一下哪些不符合你的风格你经过哪些蜕变？不一定是恐惧。你所坐的是什么样的过山车？
en:A: Tell me about the &quot;why&quot; phase — what does that do for us?What is the machete? What pupa stage are you in now?Why is it important to reboot? What does the red represent?Tell me a little bit about that part.... A little more about you that is not who you are.What are some other metamorphoses that you&#39;ve had?... Doesn&#39;t have to be fear. What kind of roller coaster are you on?
时间：13:22
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：呀......! （艾比加尔：谢谢。）不，我谢谢你
en:MS: EEEEEE! (A: Thank you.) No, thank you.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:艾比加尔：感谢你的耐心合作。（斯普尔洛克：你干得很好。）
en:A: Thanks for you patience. (MS: Great job.)
时间：13:26
zh-cn:艾比加尔：是吗。（斯普尔洛克：非常感谢。）好的
en:A: Yeah. (MS: Thanks a lot.) All right.
时间：13:28
zh-cn:唉，我不知道最后的结果如何这其中有太多复杂繁琐的事情了
en:MS: Yeah, I don&#39;t know what&#39;s going to come of this.There was a whole lot of crazy going on in there.
时间：13:33
zh-cn:林赛·左特曼：这个想法的第一印象你的品牌个性中有两个迥然不同却相辅相成的两面－－摩根·斯普尔洛克品牌是一个既有思想又玩世不恭的品牌这两种很好地结合在一起这两者几乎形成一个矛盾体我认为一些公司往往只偏重其优势的其中一项而不会两者兼顾大多数公司偏向于－－这也是人之常情－－回避他们把握不准的事情回避恐惧等等而你却正好相反你实际上把这些都转变成了积极因素，这是很好的那么类似的品牌有哪些呢？第一个就是最经典的，苹果公司另外还有Target，WiiMini Coopers中的Mini，还有JetBlue有些品牌是“玩世不恭”的，有些品牌是有思想深度的而这些品牌都不长久但一个既有思想深度，又有些玩世不恭的品牌，是非常有力量的
en:Lindsay Zaltman: The first thing we saw was this ideathat you had two distinct, but complementarysides to your brand personality —the Morgan Spurlock brand is a mindful/play brand.Those are juxtaposed very nicely together.And I think there&#39;s almost a paradox with those.And I think some companieswill just focus on one of their strengths or the otherinstead of focusing on both.Most companies tend to — and it&#39;s human nature —to avoid things that they&#39;re not sure of,avoid fear, those elements,and you really embrace those,and you actually turn them into positives for you, and it&#39;s a neat thing to see.What other brands are like that?The first on here is the classic, Apple.And you can see here too, Target, Wii,Mini from the Mini Coopers, and JetBlue.Now there&#39;s playful brands and mindful brands,those things that have come and gone,but a playful, mindful brand is a pretty powerful thing.
时间：14:23
zh-cn:斯普尔洛克：一个玩世不恭，又有思想的品牌。那么你的品牌呢？如果有人让你描述自己的品牌定位，你的品牌个性你会如何描述？你是否高调？你会让人心潮澎湃吗？或者是低调品牌？你的品牌是否较为沉稳，矜持，保守？高调品牌一般较为玩世不恭就像Fresh Prince那样新奇时尚，冒险像埃罗尔·弗林那样前卫，大胆敏捷，灵活，世俗，霸气像甘道夫那样神奇又神秘或者你的品牌较为低调？你像007那样深思熟虑，世故老道？你是否名声显赫，传统，孜孜不倦，保守像奥普拉那样煽情？你是否值得信赖，稳重，熟悉安全，可靠，神圣充满思想与智慧就像达赖喇嘛或尤达大师（星战人物）那样？
en:MS: A playful, mindful brand. What is your brand?If somebody asked you to describe your brand identity, your brand personality,what would you be?Are you an up attribute? Are you something that gets the blood flowing?Or are you more of a down attribute?Are you something that&#39;s a little more calm, reserved, conservative?Up attributes are things like being playful,being fresh like the Fresh Prince,contemporary, adventurous,edgy or daring like Errol Flynn,nimble or agile, profane, domineering,magical or mystical like Gandalf.Or are you more of a down attribute?Are you mindful, sophisticated like 007?Are you established, traditional, nurturing, protective,empathetic like the Oprah?Are you reliable, stable, familiar,safe, secure, sacred,contemplative or wiselike the Dalai Lama or Yoda?
时间：15:10
zh-cn:从这部影片中我们发现了超过五百家高调或低调品牌的公司他们说：“不”，他们不愿意与这部影片扯上任何关系他们不愿意与影片扯上关系，主要是因为他们没有控制权他们无法控制最终成品但我们最终还是得到了17家合作公司他们愿意交出控制权他们愿意和像我这样既有思想又玩世不恭的人合作他们把讲述故事的权力完全交给了我们讲述那些鲜为人知的故事－－那些广告商从未深入发掘的故事
en:Over the course of this film,we had 500-plus companieswho were up and down companiessaying, &quot;no,&quot; they didn&#39;t want any part of this project.They wanted nothing to do with this film, mainly because they would have no control,they would have no control over the final product.But we did get 17 brand partnerswho were willing to relinquish that control,who wanted to be in businesswith someone as mindful and as playful as myselfand who ultimately empowered us to tell storiesthat normally we wouldn&#39;t be able to tell —stories that an advertiser would normally never get behind.
时间：15:41
zh-cn:他们让我们讲述关于神经营销学的故事我们在电影中介绍他们如何先通过核磁共振成像技术找到你大脑中控制欲求的区域再来做广告，拍摄营销式电影我们去到禁止户外广告圣保罗这个城市在过去整整五年里没有设任何广告牌，张贴任何海报，没有发过任何宣传单，什么都没有（掌声）我们去到学校区在这里，各个公司试图把广告打入全美所有财政紧张的学校让我意想不到的是，让我得到最多反馈或者让我取得最大收获的竟然是我亲自去处理的那些事情
en:They enabled us to tell the story about neuromarketing,as we got into telling the story in this filmabout how now they&#39;re using MRI&#39;sto target the desire centers of your brainfor both commercials as well as movie marketing.We went to San Paulo where they have banned outdoor advertising.In the entire city for the past five years,there&#39;s no billboards, there&#39;s no posters, there&#39;s no flyers, nothing.(Applause)And we went to school districtswhere now companies are making their wayinto cash-strapped schools all across America.What&#39;s incredible for me is the projects that I&#39;ve gotten the most feedback out of,or I&#39;ve had the most success in,are ones where I&#39;ve interacted with things directly.
时间：16:17
zh-cn:这些品牌就是怎么做的他们跳过中间人，跳过中介认为，这些中介可能并没有把我的利益放在首位我将直接与艺术家交涉我将和他一起创造出一部不同凡响的影片让人们从中有所领悟这将颠覆我们对世界的看法
en:And that&#39;s what these brands did.They cut out the middleman, they cut out their agenciesand said, &quot;Maybe these agenciesdon&#39;t have my best interest in mind.I&#39;m going to deal directly with the artist.I&#39;m going to work with him to create something different,something that&#39;s going to get people thinking,that&#39;s going to challenge the way we look at the world.&quot;
时间：16:33
zh-cn:这对人们产生了什么影响？这么做成功了吗？这部电影在圣丹斯电影节上首度上映，我们来看看根据Burrelles 的数据，电影自一月份首度上映以来— 这还不是整部电影 —我们就得到了媒体对该电影的9亿次报道全部报道加起来时长为两周半这还只是网络上的情况—不包括报纸杂志，或电视这部电影甚至还没有发行网络上没有 不能在线观看也没有在其它国家上映最后这部电影已经收到了广泛的关注对于这样一部影片而已，这是个不错的成绩我们当时找的广告公司都建议客户不要参与
en:And how has that been for them? Has it been successful?Well, since the film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival, let&#39;s take a look.According to Burrelles, the movie premiered in January,and since then — and this isn&#39;t even the whole thing —we&#39;ve had 900 million media impressions for this film.That&#39;s literally covering just like a two and a half-week period.That&#39;s only online — no print, no TV.The film hasn&#39;t even been distributed yet.It&#39;s not even online. It&#39;s not even streaming.It&#39;s not even been out into other foreign countries yet.So ultimately,this film has already started to gain a lot of momentum.And not bad for a project that almost every ad agency we talked toadvised their clients not to take part.
时间：17:07
zh-cn:我始终相信如果你敢于尝试，敢于冒险这些风险就会成为机遇我相信当你不让人们冒险你就是在把他们推向失败我相信，当你教育你的员工不去冒险那么你就是在将整个公司的利益置于危险之中我认为想要取得进步我们就必须鼓励人们敢于冒险我们必须鼓励人们不要害怕看似危险的机遇最终，勇往直前我认为我们必须直面恐惧必须把那只熊关进笼子里（笑声）直面恐惧 直面风险一口接一口，直面风险
en:What I always believeis that if you take chances, if you take risks,that in those risks will come opportunity.I believe that when you push people away from that,you&#39;re pushing them more towards failure.I believe that when you train your employees to be risk averse,then you&#39;re preparing your whole companyto be reward challenged.I feel like that what has to happen moving forwardis we need to encourage people to take risks.We need to encourage people to not be afraidof opportunities that may scare them.Ultimately, moving forward,I think we have to embrace fear.We&#39;ve got to put that bear in a cage.(Laughter)Embrace fear. Embrace risk.One big spoonful at a time, we have to embrace risk.
时间：17:53
zh-cn:最终，我们必须拥抱透明化现在，比以往任何时候一点点诚信就能产生很强的生命力我说过：通过诚信与透明我的整个演讲“拥抱透明化”由我在EMC的好友们赞助播出他们以7100美元在Ebay网上买下了演讲冠名权（掌声）EMC： 变庞大数据为巨大机遇造福全球企业EMC为您呈现“拥抱透明化”
en:And ultimately, we have to embrace transparency.Today, more than ever,a little honesty is going to go a long way.And that being said, through honesty and transparency,my entire talk, &quot;Embrace Transparency,&quot;has been brought to youby my good friends at EMC,who for $7,100bought the naming rights on eBay.(Applause)EMC: Turning big datainto big opportunityfor organizations all over the world.EMC presents: &quot;Embrace Transparency.&quot;
时间：18:35
zh-cn:非常感谢各位
en:Thank you very much, guys.
时间：18:37
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：18:50
zh-cn:琼·柯翰：那么，摩根为贯彻透明化的宗旨那7100美元被弄到哪儿去啦？斯普尔洛克：这个问题问得太好了我口袋里有一张支票是TED的母公司种子基金会（Sapling Foundation）开的一张7100美元支票作为我明年TED的出场费
en:June Cohen: So, Morgan,in the name of transparency,what exactly happened to that $7,100?MS: That is a fantastic question.I have in my pocket a checkmade out to the parent organization to the TED organization,the Sapling Foundation —a check for $7,100to be applied toward my attendance for next year&#39;s TED.
时间：19:12
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：19:14
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
