时间： 0:11
zh-cn:1960年，当我还是个学生我拿到一个旅行奖学金去研究北美的建筑。我们去了美国。我们在所有的大城市看到了公共高层建筑：纽约、费城...那些（大城市的）人只能住在那儿。我们从一个市郊到另一个市郊，然后我重新思考我们需要重新设计公寓建筑。应该有别的解决方案。这无法维持郊区的持续发展，我们要设计一种建筑可以给每一个住户单元都具有房屋的特性。
en:When, in 1960, still a student,I got a traveling fellowshipto study housing in North America.We traveled the country.We saw public housing high-rise buildingsin all major cities:New York, Philadelphia.Those who have no choice lived there.And then we traveled from suburb to suburb,and I came back thinking,we&#39;ve got to reinvent the apartment building.There has to be another way of doing this.We can&#39;t sustain suburbs,so let&#39;s design a buildingwhich gives the qualities of a houseto each unit.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:居住环境要有花园，要和自然接触，有街道而不是死气沉沉的走廊。我们预制了每个单元来降低成本这就是了，在距离我访美50年之后。这是个很理想的住宅。这个房子现在已经成为文物了,但没有得到推广.
en:Habitat would be all about gardens,contact with nature,streets instead of corridors.We prefabricated it so we would achieve economy,and there it is almost 50 years later.It&#39;s a very desirable place to live in.It&#39;s now a heritage building,but it did not proliferate.
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:1973年，我第一次去中国那时还在文化大革命我们到处看看会见建造师和规划师。这是当时的北京，在当时的北京或上海一栋高楼都没有。深圳还没设立成地级市呢街上基本看不到汽车。三十年过去了，这是北京的现状。这是香港。如果你有钱，那你可以住在那里。如果你不是很富裕，那你只能住在那里，不过是密度高一点。这不仅仅发生在亚洲。在圣保罗在直升机乘上45分钟你可以看到现代高层建筑取代了十九世纪留下来的矮房子的。随之而来的是拥挤，我们的出行拥堵，等等这类问题
en:In 1973, I made my first trip to China.It was the Cultural Revolution.We traveled the country,met with architects and planners.This is Beijing then,not a single high rise buildingin Beijing or Shanghai.Shenzhen didn&#39;t even exist as a city.There were hardly any cars.Thirty years later,this is Beijing today.This is Hong Kong.If you&#39;re wealthy, you live there,if you&#39;re poor, you live there,but high density it is, and it&#39;s not just Asia.São Paulo, you can travelin a helicopter 45 minutesseeing those high-rise buildings consumethe 19th-century low-rise environment.And with it, comes congestion,and we lose mobility, and so on and so forth.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:几年之前，我们决定返回起点反思什么是居住环境。我们能不能让它更价格适宜？我们能不能在维持现有密度的情况下满足生活品质的需求？然后我们意识到，这主要取决于采光取决于太阳，取决于环境。这要求我们把传统建筑变形。我们能不能开放建筑的几个外立面，让它跟外部环境有更好的接触呢？
en:So a few years ago, we decided to go backand rethink Habitat.Could we make it more affordable?Could we actually achieve this quality of lifein the densities that are prevailing today?And we realized, it&#39;s basically about light,it&#39;s about sun, it&#39;s about nature,it&#39;s about fractalization.Can we open up the surface of the buildingso that it has more contact with the exterior?
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:我们提出了几个方案：经济型的，更便宜而且更紧凑；膜结构的，人们可以自行设计他们的房子建造属于自己的花园。我们决定在纽约做个试点，我们把注意力放在了曼哈顿下城区。把所有的建筑做成图例左边是实际情况蓝色的是住宅，红色的是写字楼，商场右边是我们重新规划的：底层是办公建筑上面是75个商店再上面是公寓在第25层有一个空中步行街，是社区街道。是透光的。那里有花园和开放式空间给社区居民使用。基本上每个单元都有私家花园周围有的社区空间。最重要的是它通光，是开放式的。没有墙或者别的遮挡，跟外界相通，所以有充足的采光。
en:We came up with a number of models:economy models, cheaper to build and more compact;membranes of housingwhere people could design their own houseand create their own gardens.And then we decided to take New York as a test case,and we looked at Lower Manhattan.And we mapped all the building area in Manhattan.On the left is Manhattan today:blue for housing, red for office buildings, retail.On the right, we reconfigured it:the office buildings form the base,and then rising 75 stories above,are apartments.There&#39;s a street in the air on the 25th level,a community street.It&#39;s permeable.There are gardens and open spacesfor the community,almost every unit with its own private garden,and community space all around.And most important, permeable, open.It does not form a wall or an obstruction in the city,and light permeates everywhere.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:就在这两三年现实生活中我们有一个横跨亚洲的项目在这个项目里我们第一次真正意识到什么叫做居住环境的生活质量。是在中国的秦皇岛市。这个住宅建筑是为中等收入家庭设计的。有一个法规要求：所有房屋每天至少能接收到3个小时的采光。这是在冬至日测量的（北半球冬至天日照最少）这是位于新加坡的正在建造的也是面向中等收入家庭，也有花园、公共街区、公园，等等这是在科伦坡
en:And in the last two or three years,we&#39;ve actually been, for the first time,realizing the quality of life of Habitatin real-life projects across Asia.This in Qinhuangdao in China:middle-income housing, where there is a bylawthat every apartment must receivethree hours of sunlight.That&#39;s measured in the winter solstice.And under construction in Singapore,again middle-income housing, gardens,community streets and parks and so on and so forth.And Colombo.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:我想再讲一点，就是公共区域的设计划分。在我们开始建造高层建筑的一百年以后，我们仍然没有想明白为什么高层建筑反而会成为组建城市公共区域的阻碍。在新加坡，我们有了解决的机会建筑面积一千万平方英尺（约九十万平方米），超高建筑密度。我们采用了把室内、室外，长廊跟公园，和繁忙的都市生活相整合的理念。这里有室外空间，有室内空间你可以到处乱逛还可以去大自然接触最主要的，在建筑的每一层都有公共绿化和开放空间：在高台的顶上，在高塔上，在楼顶有天际公园。两公顷半（注：约一万平方）的空间里有慢跑道路，餐厅，还有世界上最长的游泳池。好像5分钟我也就只能讲这么多了呢。
en:And I want to touch on one more issue,which is the design of the public realm.A hundred years after we&#39;ve begun buildingwith tall buildings,we are yet to understandhow the tall high-rise buildingbecomes a building block in making a city,in creating the public realm.In Singapore, we had an opportunity:10 million square feet, extremely high density.Taking the concept of outdoor and indoor,promenades and parks integratedwith intense urban life.So they are outdoor spaces and indoor spaces,and you move from one to the other,and there is contact with nature,and most relevantly, at every level of the structure,public gardens and open space:on the roof of the podium,climbing up the towers,and finally on the roof, the sky park,two and a half acres, jogging paths, restaurants,and the world&#39;s longest swimming pool.And that&#39;s all I can tell you in five minutes.
时间： 5:39
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 5:41
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
