时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我将要说的是非常接近于Karen，那就是我们怎么能真正让一件工程变得独一无二？怎样才能发现想每个人一样独一无二的工程的独特性，因为在我看来，发现这种独特性和全球化的趋势有关：最重要的是发现地点的独特性和项目的独特性，这需要通过对于建筑的研究后得出。
en:So, what I&#39;d like to talk about is somethingthat was very dear to Kahn&#39;s heart, which is:how do we discover what is really particular about a project?How do you discover the uniqueness of a project as unique as a person?Because it seems to me that finding this uniquenesshas to do with dealing with the whole force of globalization;that the particular is central to finding the uniqueness of placeand the uniqueness of a program in a building.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:我向你们介绍位于堪萨斯州的Whichita，在几年前我被要求建造一座自然博物馆在靠近商业区的河边。我认为这个地点的独特在于使建筑成为河的一部分。但不幸的是，这个地点和河之间被McLean大道隔开了。所以我建议调整McLean大道。这就导致了McLean大道的再生。（笑声）调整这条道路花费了六个月的时间。
en:And so I&#39;ll take you to Wichita, Kansas,where I was asked some years ago to do a science museumon a site, right downtown by the river.And I thought the secret of the site was to make the building of the river, part of the river.Unfortunately, though, the site was separated from the river by McLean Boulevardso I suggested, &quot;Let&#39;s reroute McLean,&quot;and that gave birth instantly to Friends of McLean Boulevard.(Laughter)And it took six months to reroute it.
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:我首先给建筑评审团们展示的是位于Jaipur的Jantar Mantar天文观测台，因为我讨论的是什么使这个建筑成为科学的建筑。依我看来是它的结构，复杂度，丰富度，以及完全可以理解的，它是一个和科学相关的工具，在某种程度上科学相关的建筑应该是独特的。所以我最初的设想是，切断河道，形成一个岛，最终构造一个岛上的建筑。我感到很兴奋，来告诉他们，他们却失望得看着我，说，一个岛？这里曾经有一个岛，Ackerman岛，但在大萧条时为了创造就业机会填平了河道。（笑声）
en:The first image I showed the building committee wasthis astronomic observatory of Jantar Mantar in Jaipurbecause I talked about what makes a building a building of science.And it seemed to me that this structure — complex, rich and yettotally rational: it&#39;s an instrument — had something to do with science,and somehow a building for science should be different and unique and speak of that.And so my first sketch after I left was to say,&quot;Let&#39;s cut the channel and make an island and make an island building.&quot;And I got all excited and came back, andthey sort of looked at me in dismay and said, &quot;An island?This used to be an island — Ackerman Island —and we filled in the channel during the Depression to create jobs.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:所以当这项工程开始时他们说你不能全建在一个岛上，一部分必须要在大陆上，因为我们不想让社会倒退。然后就产生了一个设计，像形成一个岛一样的会展，你可以从里面或房顶经过，但还是会有很多令人兴奋的景观。你可以经过陆地上的建筑，通过会馆到达平台-这里能看到景色。你要是没钱的话可以通过桥走向屋顶，看到景观后往回，走回来然后付五美元门票钱。（笑声）观众们很开心，因为我们发自内心得开心，尽管比预算多了四百万美元。
en:And so the process began and they said,&quot;You can&#39;t put it all on an island;some of it has to be on the mainland becausewe don&#39;t want to turn our back to the community.&quot;And there emerged a design: the galleries sort of forming an islandand you could walk through them or on the roof.And there were all kinds of exciting features:you could come in through the landside buildings,walk through the galleries into playgrounds in the landscape.If you were cheap you could walk on top of a bridge to the roof,peek in the exhibits and then get totally seduced,come back and pay the five dollars admission.(Laughter)And the client was happy — well, sort of happybecause we were four million dollars over the budget, but essentially happy.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:但我还有一点困扰，因为我觉得变化有些多了。这是复杂的，但在复杂之外又多了些变化。这个，我说是，结构上的复杂并且我觉得如果要实现我讲的东西，阐述科学的建筑，需要有一些创新的观点=比如一些新颖的几何图形。这就产生了环形结构，围绕着的中心在很深的地下，通过环形结构到达岛上建筑的上面。圆环，对于不了解的人来说，像是甜甜圈的表面，或者是百吉饼。在这个想法外又产生了许多不同计划和可能性的变形然后规划本身围绕着展览形成，你可以看到规划中环形结构的交叉部分。
en:But I was still troubled, and I was troubled because I felt this was capricious.It was complex, but there was something capricious about its complexity.It was, what I would say, compositional complexity,and I felt that if I had to fulfill what I talked about —a building for science — there had to be some kind of a generating idea,some kind of a generating geometry.And this gave birth to the idea of having toroidal generating geometry,one with its center deep in the earth for the landside buildingand a toroid with its center in the sky for the island building.A toroid, for those who don&#39;t know,is the surface of a doughnut or, for some of us, a bagel.And out of this idea started spinning off many,many kinds of variations of different plans and possibilities,and then the plan itself evolved in relationship to the exhibits,and you see the intersection of the plan with the toroidal geometry.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:最后是整个建筑-这是个模型。每当有人抱怨预算时，我说，因为镜像的原因你可以实现两倍的钱的效果，所以值得建造这个岛。这是当建筑刚开张的时候，有一个通道可以俯瞰市中心，看下去的时候自行车道正好穿过建筑，所以路过河的人能到看到展览并被吸引到建筑中。环形结构使得建筑非常有效。建筑中的每个横梁都是同样的半径和木质。每一个墙和水泥墙，都承受着压力并支撑着建筑。建筑的每一部分都有各自的用途。有些会馆阳光可以照射进来，在晚上和白天。
en:And finally the building — this is the model.And when there were complaints about budget, I said,&quot;Well, it&#39;s worth doing the island because you get twice for your money: reflections.&quot;And here&#39;s the building as it opened,with a channel overlooking downtown, and as seen from downtown.And the bike route&#39;s going right through the building,so those traveling the river would see the exhibits and be drawn to the building.The toroidal geometry made for a very efficient building:every beam in this building is the same radius, all laminated wood.Every wall, every concrete wall is resisting the stresses and supporting the building.Every piece of the building works.These are the galleries with the light coming in through the skylights,and at night, and on opening day.
时间： 5:07
zh-cn:在1976年-（掌声）-在1976年我被要求设计一个儿童的纪念馆在Jerusalem中Yad Vashem的大屠杀纪念馆中，这里你可以看到-一个校园。我被要求设计这个建筑，我有所有的衣服和图片的艺术品。我感到很困扰。我工作了几个月却并不能做出什么，因为我觉得人们从历史博物馆中出来，他们已经信息饱和了，当又要参观一个充满信息的博物馆时会感到难以消化的所以我做了一个相反的计划。
en:Going back to 1976.(Applause)In 1976, I was asked to design a children&#39;s memorial museumin a Holocaust museum in Yad Vashem in Jerusalem,which you see here the campus.I was asked to do a building,and I was given all the artifacts of clothing and drawings.And I felt very troubled.I worked on it for months and I couldn&#39;t deal with itbecause I felt people were coming out of the historic museum,they are totally saturated with informationand to see yet another museum with information,it would make them just unable to digest.And so I made a counter-proposal:
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:我说，不要建筑；因为那里有个洞穴，我们挖隧道进去，顺着岩石一直到地下的展室。通过一个挂满了死去儿童照片的前厅，你会来到一个开阔地带。这里有一个蜡烛，在中心闪烁。通过安置很多反射镜，蜡烛的光可以射向各个方向。当你经过这里，有一个声音念着小孩们的名字，年龄和出生地区这些声音每半年会更换。然后你会到达亮光的北方，充满生机。
en:I said, &quot;No building.&quot; There was a cave on the site; we tunnel into the hill,descend through the rock into an underground chamber.There&#39;s an anteroom with photographs of children who perishedand then you come into a large space.There is a single candle flickering in the center;by an arrangement of reflective glasses, it reflects into infinity in all directions.You walk through the space, a voice reads the names,ages and place of birth of the children.This voice does not repeat for six months.And then you descend to light and to the north and to life.
时间： 6:41
zh-cn:但是，他们说，人们不会懂的-他们认为这是一个迪斯科舞厅，你不能这样做。所以他们否决了这个设计，耽搁了10年。直到有一天洛杉矶的Ed Spiegel，他在奥斯维辛集中营中失去了他3岁的儿子，当他看到这个模型，马上写了支票，所以这个建筑终于能够在10年之后得以建造。
en:Well, they said, &quot;People won&#39;t understand,they&#39;ll think it&#39;s a discotheque. You can&#39;t do that.&quot;And they shelved the project. And it sat there for 10 years,and then one day Abe Spiegel from Los Angeles,who had lost his three-year-old son at Auschwitz,came, saw the model, wrote the check and it got built 10 years later.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:很多年之后，在1988年，在我去耶路撒冷的月度旅行中，接到了外国大使馆的电话，说旁遮普的总理来了他是来进行国事访问的。我们带他参观了Yad Vashem，我们带他到了儿童纪念馆，他非常感动。他要求会见这个设计师，在Tel Avivi和他见面。然后我去了，总理和我说，我们锡克民族也受过很大的灾难，和犹太民族一样。我对于我今天所见到的很受感动。我们要建造一座自己的国家博物馆来展示我们的历史；我们希望能从这得到振兴。我希望你能来设计它。
en:So, many years after that in 1998,I was on one of my monthly trips to Jerusalemand I got a call from the foreign ministry saying,&quot;We&#39;ve got the Chief Minister of the Punjab here.He is on a state visit. We took him on a visit to Yad Vashem,we took him to the children&#39;s memorial; he was extremely moved.He&#39;s demanding to meet the architect. Could you come down and meet him in Tel Aviv?&quot;And I went down and Chief Minister Badal said to me,&quot;We Sikhs have suffered a great deal, as you have Jews.I was very moved by what I saw today.We are going to build our national museum to tell the story of our people;we&#39;re about to embark on that.I&#39;d like you to come and design it.&quot;
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:但是你知道，这是不用太当真的事情。但是两周后我来到了这个小镇，Anandpur Sahib在Punjab的首都Chandigarh外，有一座庙宇，紧邻着堡垒是锡克家族最后的宗师Gobind死的地方，他写了民族的圣书Khalsa。我要工作，他们就把我带到了那里，和城市和庙宇都有9公里远，说我们已经选择好了位置。
en:And so, you know, it&#39;s one of those things that you don&#39;t take too seriously.But two weeks later, I was in this little town, Anandpur Sahib,outside Chandigarh, the capital of the Punjab,and the temple and also next to it the fortressthat the last guru of the Sikhs, Guru Gobind, died inas he wrote the Khalsa, which is their holy scripture.And I got to work and they took me somewhere down there,nine kilometers away from the town and the temple,and said, &quot;That&#39;s where we have chosen the location.&quot;
时间： 8:32
zh-cn:我说，这个位置不好。朝圣者的数目成百上千-他们不会乘坐铁路和公交，而是走到这里。让我们回到城里，选择能够走到的地点。我建议他们就在那边的山上建造，这座山可以直接通往市里。在印度事情变简单了，在一个星期内就买好了建造的土地，然后我们开始工作。（笑声）
en:And I said, &quot;This just doesn&#39;t make any sense.The pilgrims come here by the hundreds of thousands —they&#39;re not going to get in trucks and buses and go down there.Let&#39;s get back to the town and walk to the site.&quot;And I recommended they do it right there, on that hilland this hill, and bridge all the way into the town.And, as things are a little easier in India, the site was purchased within a weekand we were working.(Laughter)
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:我的建议是将这个博物馆分成两部分：一端是永久性的展览，礼堂，图书馆，另一端是变化的展览。为了能使河谷流向果园，并且将城堡和城市相连。这个结构建立在沙石上。用混凝土和沙石建造；屋顶是不锈钢。建筑朝南，并且反射庙宇的光线，游客在一边和另一边中交叉前进。从北边看都是沙石上的工程，从喜马拉雅上角度看，从城堡开始。
en:And my proposal was to split the museum into two —the permanent exhibits at one end, the auditorium, library,and changing exhibitions on the other —to flood the valley into a series of water gardensand to link it all to the fort and to the downtown.And the structures rise from the sand cliffs —they&#39;re built in concrete and sandstones; the roofs are stainless steel —they are facing south and reflecting light towards the temple itself,pedestrians crisscross from one side to the other.And as you come from the north, it is all masonry growing out of the sand cliffsas you come from the Himalayas and evoking the tradition of the fortress.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:然后我离开了四个月，这里要开始动工了。我回来了，看到我以前的小小模型变成了10倍大的供大众游览的建筑了，连桥也建成了。（笑声）在绘制的草图中！50万人欢聚庆典，当开始建造的时候你可以在这里看到。我将它重命名为Safdie Singh，并开始动工-这里有1800名工人工作，在两年后交工。
en:And then I went away for four monthsand there was going to be groundbreaking.And I came back and, lo and behold, the little model I&#39;d left behindhad been built ten times bigger for public display on siteand ... the bridge was built!(Laughter)Within the working drawings!And half a million people gathered for the celebrations;you can see them on the site itself as the foundations are beginning.I was renamed Safdie Singh. And there it is under construction;there are 1,800 workers at work and it will be finished in two years.
时间：10:33
zh-cn:在3年前的Yad Vashem。当开始建造时，Yad Vashem决定重造历史博物馆，因为新的Washington已经建造了新的屠杀纪念馆，那个博物馆拥有了更多更广的信息，Yad Shem一年需要招待3百万名游客。他们说，重建博物馆。但是当然，锡克民族给你的工作也许毫不费劲，可犹太民族的变难了。国际竞争，第一阶段，第二阶段，第三阶段。（笑声）
en:Back to Yad Vashem three years ago. After all this episode began,Yad Vashem decided to rebuild completely the historic museumbecause now Washington was built — the Holocaust Museum in Washington —and that museum is so much more comprehensive in terms of information.And Yad Vashem needs to deal with three million visitors a year at this point.They said, &quot;Let&#39;s rebuild the museum.&quot;But of course, the Sikhs might give you a job on a platter — the Jews make it hard:international competition, phase one, phase two, phase three.(Laughter)
时间：11:07
zh-cn:但是同样的，我对于Washington建筑的规模感到困惑50000平方英尺，将在脆弱的山上建造，然后会有展馆，有门的房间和讲述屠杀故事的各个房间。我建议从山中穿过-这是我的第一个设想，将整个博物馆放在山中，从山的一侧进入，从山的另一侧出来。可以让山外的阳光进入室内
en:And again, I felt kind of uncomfortable with the notionthat a building the size of the Washington building —50,000 square feet — will sit on that fragile hilland that we will go into galleries — rooms with doorsand sort of familiar rooms — to tell the story of the Holocaust.And I proposed that we cut through the mountain. That was my first sketch.Just cut the whole museum through the mountain —enter from one side of the mountain,come out on the other side of the mountain —and then bring light through the mountain into the chambers.
时间：11:43
zh-cn:你可以从模型中看到，接待楼和地下停车场。跨过一座桥，进入了三角形屋子，60英尺高，穿过了山并延伸到北部。所有的会馆都在地下。你可以看到阳光。在晚上，只有一道光会穿过山，这就是在三角形顶部的光。当你一个个房间地参观下去所有展览都是在地下。在演示中有雕刻的屋子-混凝土的墙，石头，天然的石块-经过细微的加工。这实际上是来自西班牙采石场的灵感那里也有类似的展厅然后，到了北方，视野变得开阔：从山中再次到达阳光和城市，和耶路撒冷的山。
en:And here you see the model:a reception building and some underground parking.You cross a bridge, you enter this triangular room, 60 feet high,which cuts right into the hilland extends right through as you go towards the north.And all of it, then, all the galleries are underground,and you see the openings for the light.And at night, just one line of light cuts through the mountain,which is a skylight on top of that triangle.And all the galleries,as you move through them and so on, are below grade.And there are chambers carved in the rock —concrete walls, stone, the natural rock when possible — with the light shafts.This is actually a Spanish quarry, which sort of inspiredthe kind of spaces that these galleries could be.And then, coming towards the north, it opens up:it bursts out of the mountain into, again, a view of light and of the cityand of the Jerusalem hills.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:最后我想讲讲我现在工作了两个月的工程。在华盛顿的和平学院的总部，美国和平学院。地址选在林肯纪念碑旁-你从那里可以看到，是大道上的最后一个建筑，可以从弗吉尼亚州通过罗斯福桥到达。这也是个竞争，并且是我才着手处理的。
en:I&#39;d like to conclude with a project I&#39;ve been working on for two months.It&#39;s the headquarters for the Institute of Peace in Washington,the U.S. Institute of Peace.The site chosen is across from the Lincoln Memorial;you see it there directly on the Mall. It&#39;s the last building on the Mall,on access of the Roosevelt Bridge that comes in from Virginia.That too was a competition, and it is something I&#39;m just beginning to work on.
时间：13:29
zh-cn:但是可以看到这个选址的独特性。如果在华盛顿的任何位置，建筑可以是写字楼，会议中心，和平谈判的地方等等，各种建筑都可以但是实际上选在大道上，紧挨着林肯纪念碑，这就是街上和平的标志，这需要很深入的考虑。
en:But one recognized the kind of uniqueness of the site.If it were to be anywhere in Washington,it would be an office building, a conference center,a place for negotiating peace and so on — all of which the building is —but by virtue of the choice of putting it on the Mall and by the Lincoln Memorial,this becomes the structure that is the symbol of peace on the Mall.And that was a lot of heat to deal with.
时间：13:56
zh-cn:最初的手稿是将建筑分为许多部分-研究中心，会议中心，公共建筑，因为这是为了和平而建立的博物馆。这是我们参加竞争的绘图，展示了从如何空间呈辐射状。你看到的结构是大街上结构的次序：非常透明，吸引人。当你在里面，可以从各个角度欣赏这个城市。我感觉这个建筑确实是个建筑和光相关，引用Kundera的话-和白色有关，和动态构设有关，和乐观的心态有关。就是这样，很前卫的。
en:The first sketch recognizes that the building is many spaces —spaces where research goes on, conference centers,a public building because it will be a museum devoted to peacemaking —and these are the drawings that we submitted for the competition,the plans showing the spaces which radiate outwards from the entry.You see the structure as, in the sequence of structures on the Mall,very transparent and inviting and looking in.And then as you enter it again, looking in all directions towards the city.And what I felt about that building is that it really was a buildingthat had to do with a lightness of being — to quote Kundera —that it had to do with whiteness,it had to do with a certain dynamic quality and it had to do with optimism.And this is where it is; it&#39;s sort of evolving.
时间：14:55
zh-cn:屋顶结构的报告表明我们可能需要新的材料，怎样才能让建筑变的白，透明，并且会发光，而不是过于任性的变化。从三维空间角度，怎样实现温和的秩序和结构，而不是能够任意改变仅仅因为你停止了对某一过程的设计。这就这样继续下去了。
en:Studies for the structure of the roof,which demands maybe new materials:how to make it white, how to make it translucent, how to make it glowing,how to make it not capricious.And here studying, in three dimensions,how to give some kind, again, of order, a structure;not something you feel you could just changebecause you stop the design of that particular process.And so it goes.
时间：15:36
zh-cn:我想说些话作为结束-（掌声）我想通过谈论“美丽”这个话题来结束。我知道这个词语在现在并不流行，当然在建筑学校的课程中也不流行。但是对我来说，我所做的一切都是为了寻找美丽。美丽是最让我满意的地方我援引我很喜欢的一句话，是1917年一个形态学家Theodore Cook讲的，“美丽展现了人性。我们说一个天然的物体是美丽的因为它的形状刚好适合，功能完美履行。”但我说是完全为了目的。无论如何，美丽是一种适合美丽告诉我们自然环境的各种力量实现的-我们的人类环境-为了这点。
en:I&#39;d like to conclude by saying something ...(Applause)I&#39;d like to conclude by relating all of what I&#39;ve said to the term &quot;beauty.&quot;And I know it is not a fashionable term these days,and certainly not fashionable in the discourse of architectural schools,but it seems to me that all this, in one way or the other, is a search for beauty.Beauty in the most profound sense of fit.I have a quote that I like by a morphologist, 1917,Theodore Cook, who said, &quot;Beauty connotes humanity.We call a natural object beautiful because we seethat its form expresses fitness, the perfect fulfillment of function.&quot;Well, I would have said the perfect fulfillment of purpose.Nevertheless, beauty as the kind of fit; something that tells usthat all the forces that have to do with our natural environmenthave been fulfilled — and our human environment — for that.
时间：16:47
zh-cn:20年前，在Richard和我一同参加的一个会上，我写了一首诗，在今天同样适用。“寻求真理能够得到美。寻求美却会得到空虚。寻求秩序令人满足。寻求满足，却只会变得失望。认为自己为同伴服务的人会发现自我实现的喜悦。而寻求自我实现的人，却会导致骄傲。骄傲和自然是不相符的。通过自然，宇宙和人类的本质，我们应当寻求真理。如果我们寻找真理，我们就会发现美。”
en:Twenty years ago, in a conference Richard and I were at together,I wrote a poem, which seems to me to still hold for me today.&quot;He who seeks truth shall find beauty. He who seeks beauty shall find vanity.He who seeks order shall find gratification.He who seeks gratification shall be disappointed.He who considers himself the servant of his fellow beingsshall find the joy of self-expression. He who seeks self-expressionshall fall into the pit of arrogance.Arrogance is incompatible with nature.Through nature, the nature of the universe and the nature of man,we shall seek truth. If we seek truth, we shall find beauty.&quot;
时间：17:33
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much. (Applause)
