时间： 0:12
zh-cn:在这个世界上有很多超级英雄但最糟糕的是，他们总是被当成透明的。例如，那些垃圾回收工他们靠捡可回收的东西为生垃圾回收工是社会不公、失业还有因垃圾回收系统的不完善而产生大量固体垃圾的衍生物。垃圾回收工的工作繁重、平实而又必不可少他们的工作造福全人类，却不被认可在巴西，90%的可回收垃圾是经他们手而回收的。
en:Our world has many superheroes.But they have the worst ofall superpowers: invisibility.For example, the catadores,workers who collect recyclable materials for a living.Catadores emerged from social inequality, unemployment,and the abundance of solid wastefrom the deficiency of the waste collection system.Catadores provide a heavy, honest and essential workthat benefits the entire population.But they are not acknowledged for it.Here in Brazil, they collect 90 percentof all the waste that&#39;s actually recycled.
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:大部分的垃圾回收工是独自工作的，在街上捡垃圾然后以低价卖给废品清理场。他们可能在他们的袋子里、购物车里、单车上、板车上捡了超过300公斤的废品。板车是用木头和金属做成的，在巴西的好些街上都能看到，颇有涂鸦和街头艺术的神韵。我第一次认识这些被边缘化的无名英雄就是这样的。
en:Most of the catadores work independently,picking waste from the streets and selling to junk yards at very low prices.They may collect over 300 kilosin their bags, shopping carts, bicycles and carroças.Carroças are cartsbuilt from wood or metaland found in several streets in Brazil,much like graffiti and street art.And this is how I first met these marginalized superheroes.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:我是一名涂鸦艺术家，也是一名活跃分子，我的作品本质关于社会、环境，还有政治。在2007年，我把我的作品从墙上搬到这些板车上，以此作为表达我的心声和支持。与此同时，也给了这些垃圾回收工表达心声的机会。让他们的事业更有艺术感和幽默性，更有魅力，也帮助垃圾回收工得到人们的关注帮助他们增强自尊心。现在，他们已经在大街小巷，大众媒体和社会上都出名了。
en:I am a graffiti artist and activistand my art is social, environmental and political in nature.In 2007, I took my work beyond wallsand onto the carroças,as a new urban support for my message.But at this time, giving voice to the catadores.By adding art and humor to the cause,it became more appealing,which helped call attention to the catadoresand improve their self-esteem.And also, they are famous now on the streets, on mass media and social.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:所以，我想说的是，自从我接触这个行业以来，我就没停止过工作。我已经在很多城市为超过200辆板车涂鸦，也受邀在世界各地做展览和旅行。然后我意识到，垃圾回收工被忽略的现象并不只是局限于巴西。我在阿根廷、智利、玻利维亚、南非、土耳其甚至在发达国家像美国、日本，也看到同样的境况。当时我就觉得，我应该让更多人加入我这个事业，因为这是一个巨大的挑战然后，我创建了一个合作性的活动，叫做“帮我的板车拉客”（笑声）——这是一个大型的群众筹资活动。谢谢。（掌声）“帮我的板车拉客”是一个大型的群众筹资活动，旨在帮助垃圾回收工还有他们的板车。垃圾回收工接受了健康专家和医疗保健的帮助，像医生、牙医、足科医生、发型师、按摩理疗师还有从事其他职业的人过来帮忙。还有，他们也拿到了安全服、手套、雨衣，和眼镜以帮他们能更清楚地看这座城市。同时他们的板车也由我们出色的志愿者重新装饰。板车也装上了保障安全的物品：反光带、喇叭、后视镜。最后，由街头艺术家喷绘最终成为这个大型，酷炫的移动艺术展的一部分。
en:So, the thing is,I plunged into this universe and have not stopped working since.I have painted over 200 carroças in many citiesand have been invited to do exhibitions and trips worldwide.And then I realized that catadores,in their invisibility,are not exclusive to Brazil.I met them in Argentina, Chile,Bolivia, South Africa, Turkeyand even in developed countries suchas the United States and Japan.And this was when I realized that I neededto have more people join the causebecause it&#39;s a big challenge.And then, I created a collaborative movement called Pimp My Carroça —(Laughter) — which is a large crowdfunded event.Thank you.(Applause).So Pimp My Carroça is a large crowdfunded eventto help catadores and their carroças.Catadores are assisted by well-being professionals and healthcare,like physicians, dentists, podiatrists, hair stylists, massage therapistsand much more.But also, they also receive safety shirts,gloves, raincoats and eyeglassesto see in high-definition the city,while their carroças are renovatedby our incredible volunteers.And then they receive safety items, too:reflective tapes, horns and mirrors.Then, finally, painted by a street artistand become part of part of this huge, amazing mobile art exhibition.
时间： 3:43
zh-cn:“帮我的板车拉客”走上了圣保罗，里约热内卢，和库里蒂巴的街头。但为了达到其他城市的需求，包括那些巴西以外的国家地区，在TEDx的启发下，我们创造了“拉客x”，这是简化的、自行的、众筹的“帮我的板车拉客”版本。现在谁都可以加入了。
en:Pimp My Carroça took to the streetsof São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Curitiba.But to meet the demand in other cities,including outside of Brazil,we have created Pimpx,which is inspired by TEDx,and it&#39;s a simplified, do-it-yourself,crowdfunded edition of Pimp My Carroça.So now everybody can join.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:在两年内，超过170名垃圾回收工，800名志愿者和200名街头艺术家还有超过1000名的捐献者加入了这个“帮我的板车拉客”活动，他们的行动，在当地的学校被当成环保教育的素材。
en:In two years, over 170 catadores,800 volunteers and 200 street artistsand more than 1,000 donorshave been involved in the Pimp My Carroça movement,whose actions have even been usedin teaching recycling at a local school.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:所以垃圾回收工不再被视而不见而是日益受到尊重和重视。凭借着他们靓丽的板车，他们现在能和偏见对抗了。还可以增加他们的收入，还有与社会的互动。
en:So catadores are leaving invisibility behindand becoming increasinglyrespected and valued.Because of their pimped carroças,they are able to fight back to prejudice,increase their income and their interaction with society.
时间： 4:43
zh-cn:所以现在，我希望你们开始认识并承认这些垃圾回收工，以及你们城市里那些被忽略的无名英雄。试着去把这个世界看成一个整体，不要用界限将他们分开。信不信由你，这个世界上有两千万的垃圾回收工。所以下次你见到他们，请把他们当做我们社会重要的一部分。非常感谢（葡萄牙语），谢谢。（掌声）
en:So now, I&#39;d like to challenge you to start looking at and acknowledgingthe catadores and other invisible superheroes from your city.Try to see the world as one, without boundaries or frontiers.Believe it or not,there are over 20 million catadores worldwide.So next time you see one,recognize them as a vital partof our society.Muito obrigado, thank you.(Applause).
