时间： 0:11
zh-cn:非常感谢把我同事的这些照片挂在这儿。（众笑）我们待会就会谈到他们现在我来做个实验。我平常不做实验，只搞理论研究。来看看我按下这按钮会怎样。好吧。我过去的科研方向是基本粒子。如果你把它再分下去会怎样呢？它是由什么组成的呢？宇宙中这些基本粒子所遵循的物理规律都是一致的，它们和宇宙的历史息息相关。
en:Thank you for putting up these pictures of my colleagues over here.(Laughter) We&#39;ll be talking about them.Now, I&#39;m going try an experiment. I don&#39;t do experiments, normally. I&#39;m a theorist.But I&#39;m going see what happens if I press this button.Sure enough. OK. I used to work in this field of elementary particles.What happens to matter if you chop it up very fine?What is it made of?And the laws of these particles are valid throughout the universe,and they&#39;re very much connected with the history of the universe.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:对基本粒子的四种作用力我们已经相当了解，但未知的部分肯定更多。但对极其微小尺度的物质我们还所知甚少。我最想说的就是在基础物理领域我们有这个显著的经验：美是我们在判断理论正确与否时的一条十分有用的标准但原因何在呢？
en:We know a lot about four forces. There must be a lot more,but those are at very, very small distances,and we haven&#39;t really interacted with them very much yet.The main thing I want to talk about is this:that we have this remarkable experience in this field of fundamental physicsthat beauty is a very successful criterion for choosing the right theory.And why on earth could that be so?
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:先让我讲一个我自己的经历吧。它非常有戏剧性。在1957年，我们三四位同僚一起提出了一个还算完整的弱相互作用理论。这理论和当时7个实验结果都不吻合—足足七个，大家想想看！后来知道那些实验都是错的。
en:Well, here&#39;s an example from my own experience.It&#39;s fairly dramatic, actually, to have this happen.Three or four of us, in 1957,put forward a partially complete theory of one of these forces, this weak force.And it was in disagreement with seven — seven, count them, seven experiments.Experiments were all wrong.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:虽然我们当时并不知道后来知道那些实验都是错的，我们还是出版了我们的理论。因为我们认为这个理论太美了，它必定是对的。那些那些实验必须是错的，它们的确也是错的。我们的朋友爱因斯坦，他在那儿听到别人说D.C.米勒的实验结果与他的狭义相对论不符时他完全不放在心上，他会说：“哦，那实验肯定是错的！” （众笑）
en:And we published before knowing that,because we figured it was so beautiful, it&#39;s gotta be right!The experiments had to be wrong, and they were.Now our friend over there, Albert Einstein,used to pay very little attention when people said,&quot;You know, there&#39;s a man with an experiment that seems to disagree with special relativity.DC Miller. What about that?&quot; And he would say, &quot;Aw, that&#39;ll go away.&quot; (Laughter)
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:为什么事情是这样的呢？这是个问题。物理学中的美到底是什么呢？这是一方面。我会尽量说清楚究竟什么是物理中的美。为什么它在物理中有很大作用，以及这是不是和人类自身有关呢？我先回答最后一个问题这和人类一点关系都没有。假设在遥远的星系的一颗行星上也许在另一个银河系存在着至少和我们一样聪明的智慧生物他们同样对科学感兴趣。这并不是不可能的。我想也许存在很多这样的星球。
en:Now, why does stuff like that work? That&#39;s the question.Now, yeah, what do we mean by beautiful? That&#39;s one thing.I&#39;ll try to make that clear — partially clear.Why should it work, and is this something to do with human beings?I&#39;ll let you in on the answer to the last one that I offer,and that is, it has nothing to do with human beings.Somewhere in some other planet, orbiting some very distant star,maybe in a another galaxy,there could well be entities that are at least as intelligent as we are,and are interested in science. It&#39;s not impossible; I think there probably are lots.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:但它们十分有可能离我们太遥远了，以至于无法和我们交流。但很大可能，他们的确存在。假设他们拥有和我们不同的感觉器官，比方说他们有7只触手，14个可笑的小复眼和一个形似蝴蝶结的大脑。他们会有不同的物理规律吗？很多人坚信有，可我认为这纯属胡扯。我想那里存在一些物理规律尽管我们也还不能透彻了解全部的规律但我们会努力去了解它们。我们努力去接近它们。
en:Very likely, none is close enough to interact with us.But they could be out there, very easily.And suppose they have, you know, very different sensory apparatus, and so on.They have seven tentacles, and they have 14 little funny-looking compound eyes,and a brain shaped like a pretzel.Would they really have different laws?There are lots of people who believe that, and I think it is utter baloney.I think there are laws out there,and we of course don&#39;t understand them at any given time very well— but we try. And we try to get closer and closer.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:也许终有一天，我们会找出宇宙中，关于粒子和力基本又统一的定律，我管它叫“基本定律”也许现在我们离发现这个定律也并非那么遥远。即便在有生之年我们看不到这一天我们仍然可以坚信它的存在我们所做的就是不断接近它。PPT上是我接下来要阐述的观点（以数学简洁表达出来的理论，就是美和优雅的。）我们用数学描述理论而数学是简明的就一些数学符号而言你可以把一个理论简洁的表示出来，一点也不复杂这种理论就是美丽和优雅的
en:And someday, we may actually figure out the fundamental unified theoryof the particles and forces, what I call the &quot;fundamental law.&quot;We may not even be terribly far from it.But even if we don&#39;t run across it in our lifetimes,we can still think there is one out there,and we&#39;re just trying to get closer and closer to it.I think that&#39;s the main point to be made.We express these things mathematically.And when the mathematics is very simple —when in terms of some mathematical notation,you can write the theory in a very brief space, without a lot of complication —that&#39;s essentially what we mean by beauty or elegance.
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:这也就是我说“基本定律”，他们的确是存在的。牛顿肯定也持这一观点。他说：“自然哲学（在牛顿时代，自然哲学=科学）的目标就是发现自然界的基本规律。”这里有一个关于基本定律的假设基本定律是关于所有粒子的一种统一理论。有些人称其为“万有理论”那不对，因为那个理论是关于量子力学的。我不会讲一些关于量子力学的知识，比如什么是量子力学之类。你们一定听说过很多关于量子力学的错误说法。（众笑）甚至还有几部与之相关的电影，里面也是错误百出。
en:Here&#39;s what I was saying about the laws. They&#39;re really there.Newton certainly believed that.And he said, here, &quot;It is the business of natural philosophy to find out those laws.&quot;The basic law, let&#39;s say — here&#39;s an assumption.The assumption is that the basic law really takes the formof a unified theory of all the particles.Now, some people call that a theory of everything.That&#39;s wrong because the theory is quantum mechanical.And I won&#39;t go into a lot of stuff about quantum mechanics and what it&#39;s like, and so on.You&#39;ve heard a lot of wrong things about it anyway. (Laughter)There are even movies about it with a lot of wrong stuff.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:但最主要的是量子力学能预测可能性。有时它的预测是接近正确的在很多常见的情况下，他们一定如此但在其他时候则未必，你能获知的只是各种可能性而已。因此，这说明决定宇宙的历史不仅仅有基本定律。它们应包括基本定律和不确定性，还有偶发事件
en:But the main thing here is that it predicts probabilities.Now, sometimes those probabilities are near certainties.And in a lot of familiar cases, they of course are.But other times they&#39;re not, and you have only probabilities for different outcomes.So what that means is that the history of the universe is not determined just by the fundamental law.It&#39;s the fundamental law and this incredibly long series of accidents,or chance outcomes, that are there in addition.
时间： 5:29
zh-cn:而基本定律可不包括这些结果，他们是额外附加的。所以基本定律不是万有理论。事实上，我们周围宇宙中大量的信息从这些不确定性而来，而并非来自基本定律。现在人们总是说，通过以下方法来接近基本定律先是在低能量下，然后是高能量下观察现象接着是更高能量，小尺度，更小的尺度再小的尺度，就像 剥洋葱皮一样。我们的确一直这么做。建造更强的机器来加速粒子我们不断深入到粒子的更微小的结构当中，这样我们可能会更接近基本定律。
en:And the fundamental theory doesn&#39;t include those chance outcomes; they are in addition.So it&#39;s not a theory of everything. And in fact, a huge amount of the informationin the universe around us comes from those accidents,and not just from the fundamental laws.Now, it&#39;s often said that getting closer and closerto the fundamental laws by examining phenomena at low energies, and then higher energies,and then higher energies, or short distances, and then shorter distances,and then still shorter distances, and so on, is like peeling the skin of an onion.And we keep doing that,and build more powerful machines, accelerators for particles.We look deeper and deeper into the structure of particles,and in that way we get probably closer and closer to this fundamental law.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:当我们剥下这些洋葱皮从而接近下一层的定律时，我们发现每一层洋葱皮和它前一层、后一层之间都存在共性。当我们用数学把它们表示出来时我们发现他们使用的数学是相似的。他们需要十分相似的数学。那绝对是惊人的发现，那也正是我今天最想说的。牛顿称它为...,顺便说一下那就是牛顿
en:Now, what happens is that as we do that, as we peel these skins of the onion,and we get closer and closer to the underlying law,we see that each skin has something in common with the previous one,and with the next one. We write them out mathematically,and we see they use very similar mathematics.They require very similar mathematics.That is absolutely remarkable, and that is a central featureof what I&#39;m trying to say today.Newton called it — that&#39;s Newton, by the way — that one.
时间： 7:00
zh-cn:这是爱因斯坦。你好，小爱。无论怎样，他说:&quot;大自然是自适应的。&quot;（并赋予自然以女性的形象）这个新现象新的&quot;洋葱皮&quot;，洋葱内小的那层当我们接近它时，它就像大的那些层。关于之前一层“洋葱皮”的数学机制和后面的一层几乎一样。这就是为什么这些方程看起来如此简单。因为它们使用的数学是我们已经熟知的。
en:This one is Albert Einstein. Hi, Al! And anyway,he said, &quot;nature conformable to herself&quot; — personifying nature as a female.And so what happens is that the new phenomena,the new skins, the inner skins of the slightly smaller skins of the onionthat we get to, resemble the slightly larger ones.And the kind of mathematics that we had for the previous skinis almost the same as what we need for the next skin.And that&#39;s why the equations look so simple.Because they use mathematics we already have.
时间： 7:46
zh-cn:这有一个小例子：牛顿发现了万有引力定律万有引力的大小与物体间距离的平方成正比法国的库伦发现电荷间的作用也遵循同样的规律。这就是相似性的一个例子。当你看万有引力时，你会看到一定的定律。而当你看电荷间的作用时，你将会发现相同的规律。这是一个非常简单的例子。还有更多复杂的例子。对称性在这里是非常重要的。你们对此一定很了解。举个例子来说，一个圆绕中心旋转是对称的。你绕圆心旋转，圆会保持不变。当你绕着一个三维的球旋转时所有这些旋转都不会使球发生变化它们就是球的对称性。所以大体上来说，如果一个物体或一种现象经过某种操作后能够保持不变，那么它就具有对称性。
en:A trivial example is this: Newton found the law of gravity,which goes like one over the square of the distance between the things gravitated.Coulomb, in France, found the same law for electric charges.Here&#39;s an example of this similarity.You look at gravity, you see a certain law.Then you look at electricity. Sure enough. The same rule.It&#39;s a very simple example.There are lots of more sophisticated examples.Symmetry is very important in this discussion.You know what it means. A circle, for example,is symmetric under rotations about the center of the circle.You rotate around the center of the circle, the circle remains unchanged.You take a sphere, in three dimensions, you rotate around the center of the sphere,and all those rotations leave the sphere alone.They are symmetries of the sphere.So we say, in general, that there&#39;s a symmetryunder certain operations if those operations leave the phenomenon,or its description, unchanged.
时间： 8:48
zh-cn:麦克斯韦方程就具有这种对称性，在空间旋转的条件下。无论我们把空间旋转怎样一个角度，电和磁的显现都不会改变。 电和磁的显现都不会改变。 它都不会改变电磁现象。19世纪出现了一种新的符号法则来表达麦克斯韦方程，如果你使用那套符号，麦克斯韦方程组会变得更加简洁。爱因斯坦的狭义相对论关注的是麦克斯韦方程体系的整体对称性。这被称之为狭义相对论这些对称使得麦克斯韦方程组更简洁，更加漂亮。
en:Maxwell&#39;s equations are of course symmetricalunder rotations of all of space.Doesn&#39;t matter if we turn the whole of space around by some angle,it doesn&#39;t leave the — doesn&#39;t change the phenomenon of electricity or magnetism.There&#39;s a new notation in the 19th century that expressed this,and if you use that notation, the equations get a lot simpler.Then Einstein, with his special theory of relativity,looked at a whole set of symmetries of Maxwell&#39;s equations,which are called special relativity.And those symmetries, then, make the equations even shorter, and even prettier, therefore.
时间： 9:23
zh-cn:让我们看看幻灯片。你们并不用知道这些公式具体的含义是什么，这没什么大影响，你只需看它们的形式就行啦（众笑）。让我们看一下它的形式。你们可以看到，在上方，很长的一列这是一系列具有xyz三个空间分量的方程组。用矢量分析，利用对称性，你们会看到接下来这种形势。当你使用狭义相对论的对称形式时，你就会得到一种更加简洁的形式。它显示对称性越来越好越是对称，你的理论就会呈现出更加简洁和优雅的形式。
en:Let&#39;s look. You don&#39;t have to know what these things mean, doesn&#39;t make any difference.But you can just look at the form. (Laughter) You can look at the form.You see above, at the top, a long listof equations with three components for the three directions of space: x, y and z.Then, using vector analysis, you use rotational symmetry, and you get this next set.Then you use the symmetry of special relativity and you get an even simpler setdown here, showing that symmetry exhibits better and better.The more and more symmetry you have, the better you exhibit the simplicity and elegance of the theory.
时间： 9:58
zh-cn:我们来看最后两个方程，第一个方程说明电荷和电流是怎样产生电场和磁场的，接下来的一个方程说明除了磁场之外没有别的东西了。磁场唯一的来源就是电荷和电流。也许有一天我们会发现这些理论中的小小不足但就现在看来，这种理论还是正确的。
en:The last two, the first equation says that electric charges and currentsgive rise to all the electric and magnetic fields.The next — second — equation says that there is no magnetism other than that.The only magnetism comes from electric charges and currents.Someday we may find some slight hole in that argument.But for the moment, that&#39;s the case.
时间：10:23
zh-cn:现在有一个很多人都没有听说过的令人兴奋的发展。他们应当听说过它，但是把它解释清楚需要一些技巧，所以我不准备这么做了。我就是稍微提一下。杨振宁，我们叫他 夫兰克 杨和罗伯特-米尔斯，在50年前提出的这种对麦克斯韦方程组的概括有全新的对称性。一种全新的对称。在数学上很相似，但这是一种全新的对称。他们希望这会对粒子物理有某种帮助。然而它本身并没有对粒子物理有帮助。
en:Now, here is a very exciting development that many people have not heard of.They should have heard of it, but it&#39;s a little tricky to explain in technical detail,so I won&#39;t do it. I&#39;ll just mention it. (Laughter)But Chen Ning Yang, called by us &quot;Frank&quot; Yang — (Laughter)— and Bob Mills put forward, 50 years ago,this generalization of Maxwell&#39;s equations, with a new symmetry.A whole new symmetry.Mathematics very similar, but there was a whole new symmetry.They hoped that this would contribute somehow to particle physics— didn&#39;t. It didn&#39;t, by itself, contribute to particle physics.
时间：11:07
zh-cn:但是我们中的一些人把它更进一步的推广了。于是成功了。它给出一种非常漂亮的方法来描述强相互作用和弱相互作用。所以我们说，正如我之前所说的，正如洋葱皮之间存在着联系一样，描述新旧理论的数学也是相似的。因此它看上去美极了。因为我们已经知道用如何把它用漂亮和简明的方式表示出来。
en:But then some of us generalized it further. And then it did!And it gave a very beautiful description of the strong force and of the weak force.So here we say, again, what we said before:that each skin of the onion shows a similarity to the adjoining skins.So the mathematics for the adjoining skins is very similar to what we need for the new one.And therefore it looks beautifulbecause we already know how to write it in a lovely, concise way.
时间：11:35
zh-cn:这是所有的主题。我们相信在所有的规律下有一个统一的理论。在接近统一理论的过程中，呈现出对称性。对称性显示出了简洁。在所有的尺度上都存在着自相似性，换句话说从洋葱的一层到另一层大体上来说是自相似的。那就解释了这个现象。那也将解释为什么美是选择正确理论的成功准则。
en:So here are the themes. We believe there is a unified theory underlying all the regularities.Steps toward unification exhibit the simplicity.Symmetry exhibits the simplicity.And then there is self-similarity across the scales — in other words,from one skin of the onion to another one.Proximate self-similarity. And that accounts for this phenomenon.That will account for why beauty is a successful criterion for selecting the right theory.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:牛顿光学指出：“自然是和谐和自相似的。”他的这种思想在我们今天看来是天经地义的，然而在他的那个时代人们可不这么想。这有一个故事，这个故事并不一定是真的，但很多人都讲过。它有四个来源。当剑桥大学爆发瘟疫时，牛顿回到到他母亲的农场，由于大学停课了他看到苹果从树上落下来, 砸到了他的脑袋或者其他什么东西，他突然意识到这种把苹果吸向地面的力很有可能和规范月球和行星运动的力是一致的
en:Here&#39;s what Newton himself said:&quot;Nature is very consonant and conformable to her self.&quot;One thing he was thinking of is something that most of us take for granted today,but in his day it wasn&#39;t taken for granted.There&#39;s the story, which is not absolutely certain to be right, but a lot of people told it.Four sources told it. That when they had the plague in Cambridge,and he went down to his mother&#39;s farm — because the university was closed —he saw an apple fall from a tree, or on his head or something.And he realized suddenly that the force that drew the apple down to the earthcould be the same as the force regulating the motions of the planets and the moon.
时间：12:48
zh-cn:虽然今天看来这是无可厚非的，在那个年代，这是一个伟大的统一。它就是万有引力定律。所以他说，自然界的原理，和谐这种自然法则与哲学家的观念相距甚远。我克制自己没有把这种想法写进我的书里，除非我想被认为是一个奢侈的怪胎对一点我们都十分小心。（众笑）特别是在这个会议上。“我的读者对本书的主要内容怀有偏见”。
en:That was a big unification for those days, although today we take it for granted.It&#39;s the same theory of gravity.So he said that this principle of nature, consonance:&quot;This principle of nature being very remote from the conceptions of philosophers,I forbore to describe it in that book,lest I should be accounted an extravagant freak ... &quot;That&#39;s what we all have to watch out for, (Laughter) especially at this meeting.&quot; ... and so prejudice my readers against all those things which were the main design of the book.&quot;
时间：13:24
zh-cn:谁想被视为一个妄想狂呢？把苹果吸向地面的力很有可能和使月球和行星运动的力是一致的，等等？每个人都知道。它就是万有引力的性质。它并不是人们头脑中的思想。当然人类的思想可以理解它，欣赏它，使用它。但它并非来自于人类的思维。它来自于万有引力的性质。那对我们所谈论的一切都是对的。它们是基本定律的性质。基本定律就像一层一层的相似的洋葱皮。因此用来描述“一层洋葱皮”的数学可以优美并且简单的表述另外一层。
en:Now, who today would claim that as a mere conceit of the human mind?That the force that causes the apple to fall to the groundis the same force that causes the planets and the moon to move around,and so on? Everybody knows that. It&#39;s a property of gravitation.It&#39;s not something in the human mind. The human mind can, of course, appreciate itand enjoy it, use it, but it&#39;s not — it doesn&#39;t stem from the human mind.It stems from the character of gravity.And that&#39;s true of all the things we&#39;re talking about.They are properties of the fundamental law.The fundamental law is such that the different skins of the onion resemble one another,and therefore the math for one skin allows you to express beautifully and simplythe phenomenon of the next skin.
时间：14:08
zh-cn:那一年牛顿做出了很多贡献：万有引力定律，牛顿运动定律，微积分，并发现白光是由类似彩虹的不同颜色的光组成的。他应该写一篇论文，题目就叫做“我在暑假都干了什么”（众笑）因此我们不需要假定这些原则是独立的抽象假设。它们是由基本定律推导出的。我们称之为涌现性。我们不需要一些东西来得到更多的东西。这就是涌现性的含义。
en:I say here that Newton did a lot of things that year:gravity, the laws of motion, the calculus, white light composed of all the colors of the rainbow.And he could have written quite an essay on &quot;What I Did Over My Summer Vacation.&quot;(Laughter)So we don&#39;t have to assume these principles as separate metaphysical postulates.They follow from the fundamental theory.They are what we call emergent properties.You don&#39;t need — you don&#39;t need something more to get something more.That&#39;s what emergence means.
时间：14:54
zh-cn:生命源于物理和化学，再加上很多意外。人类的智慧源于神精细胞和很多意外因素。这些化学作用源于物理和特定的意外因素。这并不会较少其重要性，当了解到它们遵循基本定律和一些意外因素那是一个大体上的原则，意识到这点很重要。你不需要更多的东西来得到更多的东西。当人们读我的书《夸克和美洲豹》，他们总是禁不住要问。他们说：除了你说的那些以外，还有其他更多的吗？他们很可能在问是否存在超自然。无论怎样它不存在。（众笑）你不需要更多的东西来解释更多的东西。非常感谢。（众笑）
en:Life can emerge from physics and chemistry, plus a lot of accidents.The human mind can arise from neurobiology and a lot of accidents,the way the chemical bond arises from physics and certain accidents.It doesn&#39;t diminish the importance of these subjectsto know that they follow from more fundamental things, plus accidents.That&#39;s a general rule, and it&#39;s critically important to realize that.You don&#39;t need something more in order to get something more.People keep asking that when they read my book, &quot;The Quark and the Jaguar,&quot;and they say, &quot;Isn&#39;t there something more beyond what you have there?&quot;Presumably, they mean something supernatural.Anyway, there isn&#39;t. (Laughter)You don&#39;t need something more to explain something more.Thank you very much. (Applause)
