时间： 0:11
zh-cn:让我们想象一下，一架飞机将要坠毁，上面有250个孩童和婴儿，如果你知道该怎么去阻止这件事发生，你会去做吗？
en:So imagine that a plane is about to crashwith 250 children and babies,and if you knew how to stop that, would you?
时间： 0:23
zh-cn:再想象一下，60架飞机上满是年龄五岁以下的孩童，而这60架飞机每天坠毁一次，那些孩子们，都是从来没有过过五岁生日的孩子。660万个孩子啊，他们都从没有经历过自己第五个生日。
en:Now imaginethat 60 planes full of babies under fivecrash every single day.That&#39;s the number of kidsthat never make it to their fifth birthday.6.6 million childrennever make it to their fifth birthday.
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:大部分这样的死亡都是可以避免的，这不仅仅使我感到伤心，更加使我愤怒，并且使我下定决心要做些什么痢疾（腹泻）和急性肺炎正是杀害不满五岁孩童的罪魁祸首而我们为了预防这些疾病所能做的并不是某些先进新颖的科技发明。这其实是世界上最古老的一种发明之一：一块肥皂。用肥皂洗手，一个我们都认为理所当然的习惯，可以减少一半的痢疾以及减少三分之一的呼吸传染。用肥皂洗手可以减少流感，颗粒性结膜炎（沙眼），SARS（非典）还有近年来的霍乱埃博拉病毒的爆发，最重要的预防措施之一就是用肥皂洗手。用肥皂洗手可以使孩子们健康的在学校读书。并且让婴儿不再早夭。用肥皂洗手是最经济的方法之一来拯救孩子们的生命。它每年可以拯救超过60万个生命。这相当于阻止10架满载着婴儿和小孩的客机每天阻止它们坠毁。我相信你们会和我一样觉得这是一个非常有用的公共健康预防措施。
en:Most of these deaths are preventable,and that doesn&#39;t just make me sad,it makes me angry,and it makes me determined.Diarrhea and pneumoniaare among the top two killersof children under five,and what we can do to prevent these diseasesisn&#39;t some smart,new technological innovations.It&#39;s one of the world&#39;s oldest inventions:a bar of soap.Washing hands with soap,a habit we all take for granted,can reduce diarrhea by half,can reduce respiratory infections by one third.Handwashing with soapcan have an impacton reducing flu, trachoma, SARS,and most recently in the case of choleraand Ebola outbreak,one of the key interventionsis handwashing with soap.Handwashing with soap keeps kids in school.It stops babies from dying.Handwashing with soapis one of the most cost-effectiveways of saving children&#39;s lives.It can save over 600,000 children every year.That&#39;s the equivalent of stopping10 jumbo jetsfull of babies and childrenfrom crashing every single day.I think you&#39;ll agree with me that that&#39;s a prettyuseful public health intervention.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:所以现在花一分钟的时间，请你们和邻座的人相互认识一下。你们为什么不握手呢？请握住对方的手。好，现在互相认识一下。他（她）看起来真漂亮，对吧。那么好如果现在我告诉你你刚刚握手的那个人在他们走出洗手间的时候实际上并没有洗手......（笑）现在他们看起来没有那么漂亮了，是吧？非常恶心，你们和我想的一样。
en:So now just take a minute.I think you need to get toknow the person next to you.Why don&#39;t you just shake their hands.Please shake their hands.All right, get to know each other.They look really pretty.All right.So what if I told youthat the person whose hands you just shookactually didn&#39;t wash their handswhen they were coming out of the toilet?(Laughter)They don&#39;t look so pretty anymore, right?Pretty yucky, you would agree with me.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:统计数据显示世界上五个人中有四个人在用完洗手间之后都不洗手并且同样的，在我们进入有自来水，有肥皂提供的豪华洗手间时也不洗手。并且在乡村也是这样，那里孩子的死亡率非常高。
en:Well, statistics are actually showingthat four people out of fivedon&#39;t wash their hands whenthey come out of the toilet,globally.And the same way,we don&#39;t do it when we&#39;ve got fancy toilets,running water, and soap available,it&#39;s the same thing in the countrieswhere child mortality is really high.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:这是为什么？没有肥皂吗？实际上，有肥皂。在印度百分之九十家庭，在肯尼亚百分之九十四的家庭，都有肥皂。甚至在肥皂拥有率最低的乡村，像埃塞俄比亚，都有百分之五十。
en:What is it? Is there no soap?Actually, soap is available.In 90 percent of households in India,94 percent of households in Kenya,you will find soap.Even in countries where soap is the lowest,like Ethiopia, we are at 50 percent.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:那么为什么会这样呢？人们为什么都不洗手了？马扬克我在印度认识的一个男孩为什么他不洗手呢？在马扬克的家中，肥皂用来洗澡，用来洗衣服，用来洗碗。有时他的父母认为肥皂是一个珍贵的日用品，所以他们会把肥皂放在碗柜里。不让马扬克碰肥仔以免他浪费了肥皂。通常来说，在马扬克的家里，他们会用肥皂洗手一天一次这样算好的，有时甚至一个星期才用肥皂洗一次手。那么这样的后果是什么?孩子们在家里会染上疾病在这个本该最给他们关爱最能保护他们的地方。
en:So why is it?Why aren&#39;t people washing their hands?Why is it that Mayank,this young boy that I met in India,isn&#39;t washing his hands?Well, in Mayank&#39;s family,soap is used for bathing,soap is used for laundry,soap is used for washing dishes.His parents think sometimesit&#39;s a precious commodity,so they&#39;ll keep it in a cupboard.They&#39;ll keep it away from him so he doesn&#39;t waste it.On average, in Mayank&#39;s family,they will use soap for washing handsonce a dayat the very best, and sometimeseven once a week for washing hands with soap.What&#39;s the result of that?Children pick up diseasein the place that&#39;s supposed to love themand protect them the most, in their homes.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:回想一下你是在哪里学会洗手的，你是在家学会的吗你是在学校学会的洗手的吗？行为学家会告诉你：想要改掉一个在你小时候养成的习惯很难。
en:Think about where you learned to wash your hands.Did you learn to wash your hands at home?Did you learn to wash your hands in school?I think behavioral scientists will tell youthat it&#39;s very difficult to change the habitsthat you have had early in life.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:但是，我们总会跟着大流改变，并且当地的文化也会对我们习惯的形成产生影响，下面我们就讲到肥皂的销售。在亚洲和非洲几乎每秒都有111位母亲会购买肥皂来保护她们的家人。许多印度的妈妈会告诉你她们从Lifebuoy的肥皂中（联合利华肥皂品牌）了解了卫生学，和疾病学像这样的标志性品牌有责任把他们售卖的产品做好正是这样的信任，还有联合利华的规模使我们和这些妈妈们讨论用肥皂洗手和卫生。
en:However, we all copy what everyone else does,and local cultural norms are somethingthat shape how we change our behavior,and this is where the private sector comes in.Every second in Asia and Africa,111 motherswill buy this bar to protect their family.Many women in India will tell youthey learned all about hygiene, diseases,from this bar of soap from Lifebuoy brand.Iconic brands like this onehave a responsibility to do goodin the places where they sell their products.It&#39;s that belief, plus the scale of Unilever,that allows us to keep talking abouthandwashing with soap andhygiene to these mothers.
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:大公司和大品牌可以改变一些社会习俗并且使一些习惯发生改变这些习惯实在是太难改变了。想一想：商人们一直想尽办法让我们从一个品牌换到另一个品牌。并且事实上，他们知道如何将科技转换成激发人们兴趣的信息。用一分钟的时间想象一下，商人们用尽全力地传递一个有力地信息：用肥皂洗手。这样做的动机就是改善这个世界的卫生与健康。
en:Big businesses and brands can changeand shift those social normsand make a difference for those habitsthat are so stubborn.Think about it:Marketeers spend all their timemaking us switch from one brand to the other.And actually, they know how to transformscience and facts into compelling messages.Just for a minute, imaginewhen they put all their forces behinda message as powerful as handwashing with soap.The profit motive is transforming health outcomesin this world.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:但是商家们这么做已经有几个世纪了：Lifebuoy这个品牌1894年建立，在维多利亚女王时代的英国，当时是为了抵抗霍乱。上个星期，我在加纳（非洲西部国家），和卫生部长在一起，因为在当时，你们可能不知道，那里霍乱正在爆发。118年之后，解决方案仍旧是一样的：就是确保人人都能用到肥皂，并且人们确实在使用它，因为这是预防霍乱传播的首要方法。我想这个利益驱动所带来的好处是非常可观的，有时甚至超过了那些承担着最多任务的慈善机构和政府。
en:But it&#39;s been happening for centuries:the Lifebuoy brand was launched in 1894in Victorian Englandto actually combat cholera.Last week, I was in Ghanawith the minister of health,because if you don&#39;t know,there&#39;s a cholera outbreak in Ghana at the moment.A hundred and eighteen years later,the solution is exactly the same:It&#39;s about ensuring that they have accessto this bar of soap,and that they&#39;re using it,because that&#39;s the number one wayto actually stop cholera from spreading.I think this drive for profitis extremely powerful,sometimes more powerful thanthe most committed charity or government.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:政府也在尽全力做他们能做的事，尤其是发生全球流行病的时候比如霍乱，或者现在正在肆虐的埃博拉，政府更有竞争力但是预算并不是那么简单。我们想一下能够使每天洗手成为一个习惯所需要的经费它需要持久地提供资金来巩固这种有益的行为。总之，那些旨在改善公共卫生的组织实际上是依赖于肥皂商家才能推广用肥皂洗手的。我们有USAID（美国国际开发总署），是世界性的公私合作模式还有伦敦卫生和热带医药学院，还有Plan, WaterAid(旨在给贫穷地区人们用水的世界性组织)，都坚信着三赢的合作关系。公共部门能得到好处，因为我们帮助他们完成了他们的目标。私人个体也能得到好处，因为我们使一代又一代的人形成了洗手的习惯而且最重要的是弱势群体也收到了保护。每年十月十五号，我们会庆祝全球洗手日。学校，社会团体，还有我们公共部门的朋友们还有私人个体企业的朋友们是的，在那天，甚至是我们的竞争者，也会加入我们一起庆祝这个世界上最重要的公共健康的节日。我们所需要的，还有私人企业可以从中获得利益的地方都会随着这个远大并且具有创造性的想法而来并且这样的创意会带来大面积的宣传。如果你加入了我们“帮助一个孩子”的活动，我们制作了很棒的宣传片片子里面将用肥皂洗手的重要性用与人们相关的方式传递给了每一个人。我们有超过三千万的浏览量。甚至很多人到现在依然在网络上讨论这个电影。我希望大家用五分钟去看一下这些电影。
en:Government is doing what they can,especially in terms of the pandemicsand epidemics such as cholera,or Ebola at the moment,but with competing priorities.The budget is not always there.And when you think about this,you think about what is requiredto make handwashing a daily habit,it requires sustained fundingto refine this behavior.In short, those that fight for public healthare actually dependent upon the soap companiesto keep promoting handwashing with soap.We have friends like USAID,the Global Public-Private Partnershipfor Handwashing with Soap,London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine,Plan, WaterAid,that all believefor a win-win-win partnership.Win for the public sector,because we help them reach their targets.Win for the private sector,because we build new generationsof future handwashers.And most importantly,win for the most vulnerable.On October 15,we will celebrate Global Handwashing Day.Schools, communities,our friends in the public sectorand our friends in the private sector —yes, on that day even our competitors,we all join hands to celebratethe world&#39;s most importantpublic health intervention.What&#39;s required,and again where the private sectorcan make a huge difference,is coming up with this big, creative thinkingthat drives advocacy.If you take our Help a Child Reach 5 campaign,we&#39;ve created great filmsthat bring the message of handwashing with soapto the everyday personin a way that can relate to them.We&#39;ve had over 30 million views.Most of these discussions are still happening online.I urge you to take five minutesand look at those films.
时间： 8:35
zh-cn:我来自马里（西非国家），世界上最贫穷的国家之一。在我的家庭中，每天晚餐家人都在讨论社会正义。我在欧洲公共卫生一流的学校里完成我的学业。我想我可能是我们的国家中唯一一个在卫生学上有这么高学历的女性，并且是唯一一个拥有“用肥皂洗手博士”头衔的人。（笑声）（掌声）
en:I come from Mali,one of the world&#39;s poorest countries.I grew up in a family where every dinner conversationwas around social justice.I trained in Europe&#39;s premier school of public health.I think I&#39;m probably one of the only womenin my country with this high degree in health,and the only onewith a doctorate in handwashing with soap.(Laughter)(Applause)
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:九年前，当我的公共卫生事业发展的很好的时候，我下定决心要做一个具有很大影响力的事情，销售并且推广这个世界上在公共卫生领域最好的发明：肥皂。我们经营着世界上最大的洗手项目按照任何公共卫生的标准。我们影响了16个国家的超过一亿八千三百万人。我的团队和我有在2020年影响10亿人的雄心壮志。在过去的四年里，商业以双位数水平增长，同时孩子们的死亡率也在减少这样的情况发生在所有肥皂使用增加的地方。有些人可能会认为我这么说不对——“经济增长意味着拯救了很多生命”——正是经济增长使我们能做得更多如果不谈经济，没有商业，我们不能获得我们所需要的改变。
en:Nine years ago, I decided,with a successful public health career in the making,that I could make the biggest impact coming,selling and promoting the world&#39;s best inventionin public health: soap.We run today the world&#39;s largesthandwashing programby any public health standards.We&#39;ve reached over 183 million peoplein 16 countries.My team and I have the ambitionto reach one billion by 2020.Over the last four years,business has grown double digits,whilst child mortality has reducedin all the places where soap use has increased.It may be uncomfortable for some to hear —business growth and lives savedsomehow equated in the same sentence —but it is that business growththat allows us to keep doing more.Without it, and without talking about it,we cannot achieve the change that we need.
时间：10:09
zh-cn:上个星期，我们团队去拜访了一些母亲她们都经历了一件相同的事情：新生婴儿的夭折。我是一个母亲我不能想象有什么能比这更震撼更痛苦。有一位来自缅甸的母亲。她在生活给了她第二次机会的时候绽放出了最美丽的笑容。他的儿子，妙（人名），是她的第二个孩子。她曾有过一个女儿在她只有三个星期大的时候去世了，我们都知道孩子们最容易在他们刚出生的一个月内死亡，如果我们给那些有经验的护理人员们一块肥皂，并且让他们在触碰婴儿前使用肥皂的话，我们就可以减少新生儿的死亡数正是这样的事激励着我，鞭策着我继续完成这个任务，让我可以给每一位母亲她们需要的东西这样她就可以从事世界上最美丽的一份事业：抚养的她的新生儿。这样，下次你去看望一位产妇和她的家人想带礼物去时，不用想太多：给她买一个肥皂吧。这是在公共卫生历史上最伟大的发明。
en:Last week, my team and Ispent time visiting mothersthat have all experienced the same thing:the death of a newborn.I&#39;m a mom. I can&#39;t imagine anything more powerfuland more painful.This one is from Myanmar.She had the most beautiful smile,the smile, I think, that life gives youwhen you&#39;ve had a second chance.Her son, Myo, is her second one.She had a daughterwho passed away at three weeks,and we know that the majorityof children that actually diedie in the first month of their life,and we know that if we give a bar of soapto every skilled birth attendant,and that if soap is used before touching the babies,we can reduce and make a changein terms of those numbers.And that&#39;s what inspires me,inspires me to continue in this mission,to know that I can equip herwith what&#39;s neededso that she can dothe most beautiful job in the world:nurturing her newborn.And next time you think of a giftfor a new mom and her family,don&#39;t look far: buy her soap.It&#39;s the most beautiful invention in public health.
时间：11:24
zh-cn:我也希望大家能加入我们让洗手成为你们以及我们的日常生活并且帮助更多像妙一样的男孩让他们能过自己的五岁生日。
en:I hope you will join usand make handwashing part of your daily livesand our daily livesand help more children like Myoreach their fifth birthday.
时间：11:34
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：11:37
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
