时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在2010年我开办了莫特馆桥学院，我的目标很简单：创办一所学校，以关闭一所监狱。一些人可能会认为，这是个大胆的目标，原因在于我们的学校位于布鲁克林的布朗斯维尔地区——在纽约市所有城市中暴力频发缺少治理最严重的城区之一。和许多高贫困率的城区学校一样，我们面临着众多挑战，比如寻找那些能对弱势群体的复杂情况感同身受的老师，缺乏技术资金支持，还缺少家长参与度，甚至周边的帮派不时会招募年仅四年级的孩子。
en:When I opened Mott HallBridges Academy in 2010,my goal was simple:open a school to close a prison.Now to some, this was an audacious goal,because our school is locatedin the Brownsville section of Brooklyn —one of the most underservedand violent neighborhoodsin all of New York City.Like many urban schoolswith high poverty rates,we face numerous challenges,like finding teachers who can empathizewith the complexitiesof a disadvantaged community,lack of funding for technology,low parental involvementand neighborhood gangs that recruitchildren as early as fourth grade.
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:所以我在这里创办了一所地区公立中学，创立之初只有45个孩子。其中三成有特殊需求。86%的孩子在英语和数学方面落后平均水平。并且他们的生活水平全都处于贫困线之下。
en:So here I was,the founding principal of a middle schoolthat was a district public school,and I only had 45 kids to start.Thirty percent of them had special needs.Eighty-six percent of themwere below grade levelin English and in math.And 100 percent were livingbelow the poverty level.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:如果我们的孩子不在我们的课堂，他们如何学习？如果他们不学习，他们将何去何从？
en:If our children are not in our classrooms,how will they learn?And if they&#39;re not learning,where would they end up?
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:我问一个13岁的孩子，“年轻人，你认为五年后你会怎么样？”答案似乎显而易见。
en:It was evident when I wouldask my 13-year-old,&quot;Young man,where do you see yourself in five years?&quot;
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:而他的回答是：”我不知道我能否活那么长时间。“
en:And his response:&quot;I don&#39;t know if I&#39;m gonnalive that long.&quot;
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:还有一位年轻女生对我说，她毕生的目标只是在快餐店工作。对我而言，这实在难以接受。显然他们尚未意识到，在他们生活的地区之外，还有着大片广阔的机遇。
en:Or to have a young woman say to methat she had a lifelong goalof working in a fast-food restaurant.To me, this was unacceptable.It was also evident that they had no ideathat there was a landscape of opportunitythat existed beyond their neighborhood.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:我们把我们的学生称为”学者“，因为他们是终身学习者。他们现在所学的技能将为他们今后的大学和事业打下坚实的基础。我选择象征皇室的紫色和黑色，因为我希望他们明白自己是伟大的后代。通过教育，他们将成为未来的工程师，科学家，企业家甚至成为掌管这世界的领导者。到目前为止，我们已有三届毕业班，有98的——
en:We call our students &quot;scholars,&quot;because they&#39;re lifelong learners.And the skills that they learn todaywill prepare them for collegeand career readiness.I chose the royal colorsof purple and black,because I want them to be remindedthat they are descendants of greatness,and that through education,they are future engineers,scientists,entrepreneursand even leaders who can and willtake over this world.To date,we have had three graduating classes,at a 98 —
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:有98%的毕业率。这意味着将近200个孩子，将有幸进入纽约市竞争最激烈的高中。
en:At a 98-percent graduation rate.This is nearly 200 children,who are now going to some of the mostcompetitive high schoolsin New York City.
时间： 3:20
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:那是一月寒冷的一天，我的学生维达·沙塔遇到了布兰登·斯坦顿，这位热门博客”纽约众生“创始人。布兰登分享了一个来自布朗斯维尔的年轻人的故事，他亲眼目睹了一场暴力事件，看到一个人从屋顶被扔下。尽管如此他依然受到一位校长的感化，一位相信所有的孩子而开办学校的校长。维达尔代表了我们众多贫穷孩子的故事，他们努力顽强地生存着，这也是我们必须把教育摆在首位的原因。
en:It was a cold day in Januarywhen my scholar, Vidal Chastanet,met Brandon Stanton,the founder of the popular blog&quot;Humans of New York.&quot;Brandon shared the storyof a young man from Brownsvillewho had witnessed violence firsthand,by witnessing a manbeing thrown off of a roof.Yet he can stillbe influenced by a principalwho had opened up a schoolthat believes in all children.Vidal embodies the story of so manyof our underprivileged childrenwho are struggling to survive,which is why we mustmake education a priority.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:布兰登的博客吸引力全世界的目光，触碰到数百万生命的内心。同时带来了140万美元的捐款，用于资助我们的优秀学生参加各大学的实地考察旅行，夏季STEAM程序，以及提供大学奖学金。你应该明白，当200个来自布朗斯维尔的年轻人参观了哈佛大学，他们会了解，他们选择大学才是真正的机遇。曾经来自一个落后社区给他们带来的不便，将被希望与决心所替代。
en:Brandon&#39;s post created a global sensationthat touched the lives of millions.This resulted in 1.4 milliondollars being raisedfor our scholars to attend field tripsto colleges and universities,Summer STEAM programs,as well as college scholarships.You need to understandthat when 200 young peoplefrom Brownsville visited Harvard,they now understoodthat a college of their choicewas a real possibility.And the impossibilitiesthat had been imposed upon themby a disadvantaged communitywere replaced by hope and purpose.
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:教育的改革正在我们学校进行，有成年人为他们提供爱，精心组织的体系，呵护支持，还有知识。这些都将对我们的孩子有所启发。但这并不能简单的说到做到。在我们并不完美的教育体系中，有着很高的需求。
en:The revolution in educationis happening in our schools,with adults who provide love,structure,supportand knowledge.These are the thingsthat inspire children.But it is not an easy task.And there are high demandswithin an education systemthat is not perfect.
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:不过我有一群充满活力的教育家，他们彼此合作成立团队来决定课程的最佳安排。他们在非工作日的时间仍然忙碌，周末也到学校工作，甚至愿意自费提供我们缺少的资源。作为一名校长，我需要检查我所期待的东西。
en:But I have a dynamic group of educatorswho collaborate as a team to determinewhat is the best curriculum.They take time beyond their school day,and come in on weekendsand even use their own moneyto often provide resourceswhen we do not have it.And as the principal,I have to inspect what I expect.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:所以我出现在教室通过观察来提供反馈，因为我希望老师们可以和莫特馆桥学院的名号一样成功。他们每天都可以联系到我，因为他们都有我的手机号，包括我的学生和已经毕业的学生，这也许就是我在凌晨3点钟还会收到电话和短信的原因吧。
en:So I show up in classesand I conduct observationsto give feedback,because I want my teachersto be just as successfulas the name Mott Hall Bridges Academy.And I give them access to meevery single day,which is why they all havemy personal cell number,including my scholarsand those who graduated —which is probably why I getphone calls and text messagesat three o&#39;clock in the morning.
时间： 6:25
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:不过我们都与成功息息相关，优秀的领导者引领成功。明日的未来正坐在我们的教室中。他们是我们担负的责任。那意味着这里的每个人，还有屏幕后正在观看的人们，我们要相信这些孩子的才华，教导他们教育才是真正的力量。
en:But we are all connected to succeed,and good leaders do this.Tomorrow&#39;s future is sittingin our classrooms.And they are our responsibility.That means everyone in here,and those who are watching the screen.We must believe in their brilliance,and remind them by teaching themthat there indeed is power in education.
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:58
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
