时间： 0:11
zh-cn:90年代中期,CDC和Kaiser Permanente发现:暴露于某种事物中会极大增加死亡风险,七成美国民众的首要死因皆由此引起。暴露剂量较高时,会影响大脑发育,免疫系统,内分泌系统,甚至影响到基因的读取及转录方式。暴露在极高剂量下的人群,有3倍的风险患上心脏病和肺癌,预期寿命缩短20年。然而,目前医生们还未被培训以常规筛查和治疗的手段来应对这种风险。我所说的暴露危害并不针对某种农药或包装上的化学物质。而是儿童期创伤。
en:In the mid-&#39;90s,the CDC and Kaiser Permanentediscovered an exposurethat dramatically increased the riskfor seven out of 10 of the leadingcauses of death in the United States.In high doses, it affectsbrain development,the immune system, hormonal systems,and even the way our DNAis read and transcribed.Folks who are exposed in very high doseshave triple the lifetime riskof heart disease and lung cancerand a 20-year differencein life expectancy.And yet, doctors today are not trainedin routine screening or treatment.Now, the exposure I&#39;m talking about isnot a pesticide or a packaging chemical.It&#39;s childhood trauma.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:那么,我要说的是哪种创伤呢？我要说的可不是考试不及格或输掉篮球比赛。我要说的是那种如此严重而又无处不在的威胁,以致于它让我们毛骨悚然,并从生理上改变了我们：比如,受虐待或被忽视,又或者,抚养我们的父母,本身就深受精神疾病之苦,或是深陷于&quot;物质依赖&quot;疾病。
en:Okay. What kind of traumaam I talking about here?I&#39;m not talking about failing a testor losing a basketball game.I am talking about threatsthat are so severe or pervasivethat they literally get under our skinand change our physiology:things like abuse or neglect,or growing up with a parent who struggles with mental illnessor substance dependence.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:一直以来,我都按照所教导的方式来看待这些事情。要么把它当成一个社会问题—交给社会服务去处理,要么把它当成一个心理健康问题—交给心理健康咨询来解决。后来发生了一些事情,使我反思我的整个思维方式。在医院实习结束后,我想去个我觉得真正需要我的地方,去个我可以有所作为的地方。因此，我选择为加利利福尼亚太平洋医疗中心(CPMC)工作,这是加利福尼亚北部最优秀的私立医院之一,我与该医院合作,在旧金山最穷、社区服务最差的居民区—湾景区猎人角（Bayview-Hunters Point）开了一家诊所。在此之前,整个湾景区（Bayview）社区仅有一名儿科医生,为一万多名儿童服务,因此,我们开始挂牌营业,提供最优质的医疗服务,不论是否有能力支付医疗费用。这种感觉很棒。 我们找出了在医疗服务上现状与标准的差距：普及医疗保健,免疫接种率、哮喘住院率等,我们都完成了达标。我们为自己感到骄傲。
en:Now, for a long time,I viewed these things in the way I was trained to view them,either as a social problem —refer to social services —or as a mental health problem —refer to mental health services.And then something happenedto make me rethink my entire approach.When I finished my residency,I wanted to go someplacewhere I felt really needed,someplace where I could make a difference.So I came to work forCalifornia Pacific Medical Center,one of the best private hospitalsin Northern California,and together, we opened a clinicin Bayview-Hunters Point,one of the poorest, most underservedneighborhoods in San Francisco.Now, prior to that point,there had been onlyone pediatrician in all of Bayviewto serve more than 10,000 children,so we hung a shingle, and we were ableto provide top-quality careregardless of ability to pay.It was so cool. We targetedthe typical health disparities:access to care, immunization rates,asthma hospitalization rates,and we hit all of our numbers.We felt very proud of ourselves.
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:但就在那时,我开始注意到一种令人忧心的趋势。很多孩子因为多动症（简称ADHD),被送到我这里进行医治,可是,当我对孩子们的病史和身体状况进行彻查时,却发现大多数患儿的情况,我无法下&quot;多动症&quot;(ADHD)的诊断。多数来就诊的孩子都经历过如此严重的创伤,让人觉得似乎事情并不简单。不知怎的,我漏查了某个重要的因素。
en:But then I started noticinga disturbing trend.A lot of kids were beingreferred to me for ADHD,or Attention DeficitHyperactivity Disorder,but when I actually dida thorough history and physical,what I found was thatfor most of my patients,I couldn&#39;t make a diagnosis of ADHD.Most of the kids I was seeinghad experienced such severe traumathat it felt like something elsewas going on.Somehow I was missing something important.
时间： 3:20
zh-cn:在实习之前,我曾攻读公共健康硕士学位,在公共健康学校里,我们曾学过这样的一课,如果你是一名医生,当你知道有100个孩子从同一口井中饮水,其中98人患了腹泻,你可以着手治疗,给每个病人都开抗生素,一剂,一剂,又一剂的开。可是你也可以走去井边，问声,&quot;井里到底有什么鬼东西?&quot;所以,我开始查阅手头所有的相关资料,了解暴露在不幸中,是如何影响儿童的大脑和身体发育的。
en:Now, before I did my residency,I did a master&#39;s degree in public health,and one of the things that they teach youin public health schoolis that if you&#39;re a doctorand you see 100 kidsthat all drink from the same well,and 98 of them develop diarrhea,you can go aheadand write that prescriptionfor dose after doseafter dose of antibiotics,or you can walk over and say,&quot;What the hell is in this well?&quot;So I began reading everything thatI could get my hands onabout how exposure to adversityaffects the developing brainsand bodies of children.
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:然后有一天,一个同事走进我的办公室,他问我,&quot;伯克医生,你看过这个吗?&quot;在他手里的是一份调查研究的复印件,题目是&quot;童年不良经历(ACE)研究&quot;。那一天,改变了我的临床实践,也最终改变了我的职业生涯。
en:And then one day,my colleague walked into my office,and he said, &quot;Dr. Burke,have you seen this?&quot;In his hand was a copyof a research studycalled the Adverse ChildhoodExperiences Study.That day changed my clinical practiceand ultimately my career.
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:童年不良经历(ACE)的研究是每一个人都应该要了解的。Vince Felitti博士和Bob Anda博士分别在 Kaiser 和 CDC 进行了这项研究,他们两人一起询问了17,500成年人,了解他们的&quot;童年不良经历&quot;,又称ACE。这包括生理上、情感上遭受的不幸或是性侵害；生理或情感上遭受的忽视；父母患有精神疾病、物质依赖、遭到监禁；父母分居或离婚；或家庭暴力。每个问题只要回答&quot;是&quot;,ACE分数就增加一分。接下来,他们将ACE分数与健康状况关联起来,得出的结果是令人震惊的。结论有两点：第一点,ACE十分普遍,简直令人不可思议。67%的人曾至少有一个ACE得分,有12.6%（八分之一）的人有四或四以上的ACE得分。研究发现的第二点,是ACE与健康状况之间存在着一种剂量反应关系：ACE得分越高,健康状况越糟糕。如果一个人的ACE分数大于等于4分,他患慢性阻塞性肺病的相对风险是ACE分数为0时的2.5倍。患上肝炎的风险是2.5倍。而患上抑郁症的风险是4.5倍。自杀风险是12倍。ACE分数大于等于7的人终身都有3倍的风险患上肺癌,和3.5倍的风险患上冠心病—这种目前在美国当属头号杀手的疾病。
en:The Adverse Childhood Experiences Studyis something that everybodyneeds to know about.It was done by Dr. Vince Felitti at Kaiserand Dr. Bob Anda at the CDC,and together, they asked 17,500 adultsabout their history of exposureto what they called &quot;adverse childhood experiences,&quot; or ACEs.Those include physical, emotional,or sexual abuse;physical or emotional neglect;parental mental illness,substance dependence, incarceration;parental separation or divorce;or domestic violence.For every yes, you would geta point on your ACE score.And then what they didwas they correlated these ACE scoresagainst health outcomes.What they found was striking.Two things:Number one, ACEs are incredibly common.Sixty-seven percent of the populationhad at least one ACE,and 12.6 percent, one in eight,had four or more ACEs.The second thing that they foundwas that there wasa dose-response relationshipbetween ACEs and health outcomes:the higher your ACE score,the worse your health outcomes.For a person with an ACE scoreof four or more,their relative risk of chronicobstructive pulmonary diseasewas two and a half times thatof someone with an ACE score of zero.For hepatitis, it was alsotwo and a half times.For depression, it wasfour and a half times.For suicidality, it was 12 times.A person with an ACE scoreof seven or morehad triple the lifetime riskof lung cancerand three and a half times the riskof ischemic heart disease,the number one killerin the United States of America.
时间： 6:30
zh-cn:当然,这其实挺有道理。有些人看了这些数据之后会说,&quot;好啦,你有个糟糕的童年,你更容易酗酒和抽烟,还去做一切会毁掉你健康的事情。这又不是科学,这只是坏的行为而已.&quot;
en:Well, of course this makes sense.Some people looked at this dataand they said, &quot;Come on.You have a rough childhood,you&#39;re more likely to drink and smokeand do all these thingsthat are going to ruin your health.This isn&#39;t science.This is just bad behavior.&quot;
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:然而,事实证明我们恰恰要用科学来分析它。目前,我们前所未有的更加理解早年遭受的不幸会怎样影响儿童大脑和身体的发育。早年遭受的不幸会影响大脑的伏隔核(nucleus accumbens)—人脑中与快乐和奖赏相关的处理中心,它与&quot;物质依赖&quot;疾病相关。早年遭受的不幸还会抑制大脑的前额叶皮质(Prefrontal cortex),而前额皮质对神经冲动控制与执行功能是必不可少的,这个区域对于学习能力非常关键。在核磁共振成像扫描（MRI）上,我们观察到大脑的恐惧反应中枢- 杏仁核(amygdala)中,存在可以测量的差异。因此,这便可以从神经学角度诠释：为什么人们一旦遭受大量不幸,则更容易出现高风险行为。了解了这点十分重要。
en:It turns out this is exactlywhere the science comes in.We now understandbetter than we ever have beforehow exposure to early adversityaffects the developing brainsand bodies of children.It affects areas likethe nucleus accumbens,the pleasure and rewardcenter of the brainthat is implicatedin substance dependence.It inhibits the prefrontal cortex,which is necessary for impulse controland executive function,a critical area for learning.And on MRI scans,we see measurable differencesin the amygdala,the brain&#39;s fear response center.So there are real neurologic reasonswhy folks exposedto high doses of adversityare more likely to engagein high-risk behavior,and that&#39;s important to know.
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:但事实证明,即使你不从事任何高风险的行为,你仍然更容易患上心脏疾病或癌症。因为这与&quot;下丘脑-垂体-肾上腺轴&quot;有关—它是大脑和身体的应激反应系统,支配我们做出&quot;或战或逃反应&quot;。(fight-or-flight response)。这一系统是如何运行的呢？想象你漫步在森林里,突然看到一头熊。你的下丘脑会立即向你的垂体发送信号,垂体再向你的肾上腺发送信号：&quot;释放应激激素! 肾上腺素! 皮质醇!&quot;你的心脏因而开始快速跳动,瞳孔扩张,呼吸道打开,这时你已准备好：要么就和熊战斗,要么就逃跑。这个反应很棒—如果你在森林里,那还有一只熊。（笑声）可问题是,假如每个晚上熊都回家来该怎么办,这套系统将一遍又一遍地被激活,它就会从适应到不适应,从救你的命到损害你的健康。儿童对这种反复的应激激活尤其敏感,因为他们的大脑和身体正处在发育阶段。高剂量的不良经历不仅会影响大脑结构和功能,还会影响正在发育的免疫系统,以及正在发育的内分泌系统,甚至还会影响我们的DNA读取和转录方式。
en:But it turns out that even if you don&#39;tengage in any high-risk behavior,you&#39;re still more likelyto develop heart disease or cancer.The reason for this has to do withthe hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis,the brain&#39;s and body&#39;sstress response systemthat governs our fight-or-flight response.How does it work?Well, imagine you&#39;re walkingin the forest and you see a bear.Immediately, your hypothalamussends a signal to your pituitary,which sends a signal to your adrenal gland that says,&quot;Release stress hormones!Adrenaline! Cortisol!&quot;And so your heart starts to pound,Your pupils dilate, your airways open up,and you are ready to eitherfight that bear or run from the bear.And that is wonderfulif you&#39;re in a forestand there&#39;s a bear.(Laughter)But the problem is what happenswhen the bear comes home every night,and this system is activatedover and over and over again,and it goes from beingadaptive, or life-saving,to maladaptive, or health-damaging.Children are especially sensitiveto this repeated stress activation,because their brains and bodiesare just developing.High doses of adversity not only affectbrain structure and function,they affect the developing immune system,developing hormonal systems,and even the way our DNAis read and transcribed.
时间： 9:31
zh-cn:这些知识让我彻底抛弃了以前所受训的那一套,因为,当我们了解疾病机制时,当我们 不仅知道哪些路径被干扰,而且知道它们是怎样被干扰时,作为医生,我们的职责,就是使用这门科学去做疾病的防治工作。那就是我们要做的。
en:So for me, this informationthrew my old training out the window,because when we understandthe mechanism of a disease,when we know not onlywhich pathways are disrupted, but how,then as doctors, it is our jobto use this sciencefor prevention and treatment.That&#39;s what we do.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:因此，我们在旧金山创办了青少年健康中心,目的是预防、筛查和治愈ACE和毒性应激的影响。我们开始在孩子们的定期体检中,对每个孩子进行例行检查,因为我知道,如果我的病人ACE得分为4分,她患上肝炎或慢性阻塞性肺病(COPD)的概率是1.5倍,患上抑郁症的概率是4.5倍,她自杀的几率是ACE得分为0的病人的12倍。她在我的检查室里,我就已经知道这一切了。对于检查结果为阳性的病人,我们有一支多学科综合治疗团队,致力于减少不良经历造成的影响,并使用最佳疗法治疗病症,包括家庭访视、护理协调、心理保健、营养、综合干预措施,以及必要时结合药物治疗。但我们也教家长们了解ACE和毒性应激造成的影响,这种影响与电源插座或铅中毒的危险性可以相提并论,我们调整了哮喘及糖尿病患儿的护理服务,意识到他们可能需要更积极主动的治疗,以作用于他们的内分泌和免疫系统。
en:So in San Francisco, we createdthe Center for Youth Wellnessto prevent, screen and heal the impactsof ACEs and toxic stress.We started simply with routine screeningof every one of our kidsat their regular physical,because I know that if my patient has an ACE score of 4,she&#39;s two and a half times as likelyto develop hepatitis or COPD,she&#39;s four and half times as likelyto become depressed,and she&#39;s 12 times as likelyto attempt to take her own lifeas my patient with zero ACEs.I know that when she&#39;s in my exam room.For our patients who do screen positive,we have a multidisciplinary treatment teamthat works to reduce the dose of adversityand treat symptoms using best practices,including home visits, care coordination,mental health care, nutrition,holistic interventions, and yes,medication when necessary.But we also educate parentsabout the impacts of ACEs and toxic stressthe same way you would for coveringelectrical outlets, or lead poisoning,and we tailor the careof our asthmatics and our diabeticsin a way that recognizes that they mayneed more aggressive treatment,given the changes to their hormonaland immune systems.
时间：11:16
zh-cn:当你理解了这门科学时,你会想要把它广而告之,因为这不仅仅是湾景区（Bayview)孩子的问题。我本来以为其他人一旦了解到这一点,就会着手例行检查、组建多学科治疗团队,甚至大家争先恐后想找到最有效的治疗方案。可这些都没有发生。这可是给了我一个很大的教训。我原以为简单的找到最好的临床手段来治疗就行了,现在我明白了,这是一场运动。正如Robert Block博士,这位前美国儿科学会会长所言,&quot;童年不良经历(ACE)是今天我们国家所面临的,唯一,最大的,未能解决的公共健康威胁.&quot;对于很多人来说,这个前景可不容乐观。这个问题的范围之广,规模之大使我们不得不考虑应对之策。但在我看来,危机即是转机，当我们确立正确框架时,当我们意识到这是公共健康危机时,我们才能开始使用正确的方法来求得解决方案。从烟草到铅中毒,再到艾滋病,在解决公共健康问题方面,美国实际上保持着良好记录,但要,在ACE和毒性应激方面取得同样成功,则需要下定决心、履行承诺,当我看到,我们国家对这一问题至今的反应时,我想知道,为什么我们没有更认真的对待这个问题？
en:So the other thing that happenswhen you understand this scienceis that you want to shout itfrom the rooftops,because this isn&#39;t just an issuefor kids in Bayview.I figured the minutethat everybody else heard about this,it would be routine screening,multi-disciplinary treatment teams,and it would be a race to the mosteffective clinical treatment protocols.Yeah. That did not happen.And that was a huge learning for me.What I had thought of as simplybest clinical practiceI now understand to be a movement.In the words of Dr. Robert Block,the former Presidentof the American Academy of Pediatrics,&quot;Adverse childhood experiencesare the single greatestunaddressed public health threatfacing our nation today.&quot;And for a lot of people,that&#39;s a terrifying prospect.The scope and scale of the problemseems so large that it feels overwhelmingto think about how we might approach it.But for me, that&#39;s actuallywhere the hopes lies,because when we have the right framework,when we recognize this to bea public health crisis,then we can begin to use the right tool kit to come up with solutions.From tobacco to lead poisoning to HIV/AIDS,the United States actually hasquite a strong track recordwith addressing public health problems,but replicating those successeswith ACEs and toxic stressis going to take determinationand commitment,and when I look at whatour nation&#39;s response has been so far,I wonder,why haven&#39;t we taken this more seriously?
时间：13:14
zh-cn:要知道,一开始我还想,这是因为我们漠视了这个问题,以为它跟我们无关。以为只有别的小孩,邻居家的小孩才有这问题。但很奇怪,数据可不是这么说的。初始ACE的研究样本群体为：白人占70%,大学毕业占70%。后来,我和大家谈得多了,我便开始想,也许我把这个问题完全本末倒置了。如果我问现场这个房间内有多少人在成长过程中有家庭成员患有精神疾病,我相信,会有几个人举手。如果我再问,有多少人父亲或母亲酗酒,或者是坚信：孩子要打,惯不得。我敢打赌会有更多的人举手。即使只是在我们的会场,这也是一个影响到了很多人的问题。我开始相信我们漠视这个问题是因为,它与我们息息相关。也许把它说成别的地区的事,我们才能更容易的看清楚,因为我们自己情愿生病,也不愿意正视这个问题。
en:You know, at first I thoughtthat we marginalized the issuebecause it doesn&#39;t apply to us.That&#39;s an issue for those kidsin those neighborhoods.Which is weird, because the datadoesn&#39;t bear that out.The original ACEs studywas done in a populationthat was 70 percent Caucasian,70 percent college-educated.But then, the more I talked to folks,I&#39;m beginning to think that maybeI had it completely backwards.If I were to askhow many people in this roomgrew up with a family memberwho suffered from mental illness,I bet a few hands would go up.And then if I were to ask how many folkshad a parent who maybe drank too much,or who really believed thatif you spare the rod, you spoil the child,I bet a few more hands would go up.Even in this room, this is an issuethat touches many of us,and I am beginning to believethat we marginalize the issuebecause it does apply to us.Maybe it&#39;s easier to seein other zip codesbecause we don&#39;t want to look at it.We&#39;d rather be sick.
时间：14:33
zh-cn:幸运的是,科学进步,坦率地说,还有经济现实逐渐使我们无法再继续漠视下去了。科学研究清楚显示：早期不良经历对人的一生的健康影响巨大。今天,我们开始了解如何中断从早期不良经历发展至疾病和过早死亡这一进程,从现在算起,30年后,高ACE分数的儿童,如果其行为症状未被识别,哮喘诊疗未与ACE相关联,持续发展为高血压,并患上早期心脏病或癌症,那么这就象6个月的婴儿患艾滋病一样,都是异常的。人们看到这种情况都会说：&quot;这究竟发生的是什么鬼事?&quot;这种病症是可以治疗的,也是可以战胜的。我们今天最需要的是直面这个问题的勇气,并且承认,这个问题确实存在,与我们息息相关。我相信我们将实现这一变革运动。
en:Fortunately, scientific advancesand, frankly, economic realitiesmake that option less viable every day.The science is clear:Early adversity dramatically affectshealth across a lifetime.Today, we are beginning to understandhow to interrupt the progressionfrom early adversityto disease and early death,and 30 years from now,the child who has a high ACE scoreand whose behavioral symptomsgo unrecognized,whose asthma managementis not connected,and who goes on to develophigh blood pressureand early heart disease or cancerwill be just as anomalousas a six-month mortality from HIV/AIDS.People will look at that situationand say, &quot;What the heck happened there?&quot;This is treatable.This is beatable.The single most important thingthat we need todayis the courage to lookthis problem in the faceand say, this is realand this is all of us.I believe that we are the movement.
时间：15:51
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：15:53
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
