时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我知道有这样一个既没有创造力也很老生常谈的想法，新的技术可以成为社会变革的机会。而这恰恰促使我去做这些不论是过去还是现在，就如同一个幻想，一直驱动着我。从那以后，我一直想要在自己从事的东西上有所进展，但一直以来总是同一首主题歌，将我的研究室以及目前从事的工作介绍给大家，我在纽约大学建立的环境健康诊所。它标志着环境健康的变革。因为，事实上，我目前一直致力于重新定义什么是健康。它就像任何一所大学里的健康诊所，除了，来这里的都是带着与环境有关的健康问题的人们，而离开时带着能够帮助改善环境健康的处方，而并非是为了一些医学上的问题来到诊所的，也不会带着药方离开。
en:I was informed by this kind ofunoriginal and trite ideathat new technologies were an opportunityfor social transformation,which is what drove me then,and still, it&#39;s a delusion that drives me now.I wanted to update what I&#39;ve been doing since then —but it&#39;s still the same theme song —and introduce you to my lab and current work,which is the Environmental Health Clinicthat I run at NYU.And what it is — it&#39;s a twist on health.Because, really, what I&#39;m trying to do nowis redefine what counts as health.It&#39;s a clinic like a health clinic at any other university,except people come to the clinicwith environmental health concerns,and they walk out with prescriptionsfor things they can do to improve environmental health,as opposed to coming to a clinic with medical concernsand walking out with prescriptions for pharmaceuticals.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:有句关于希波克拉底誓言的引用：“灵魂的大部分都在身体的外面要想要治愈内部，必须先要治愈外部。”但这恰恰说明了这个问题，我一直试图得到的这个问题，我们有机会重新定义健康。因为健康是内在的微小的，个人的，药物的，这样的想法是个很大的错误。我想用一个最近由菲利普·兰德里根Philip Landrigan主导的研究，来激发一种关于健康完全不一样的观点。在这个研究中，他探访了曼哈顿以及纽约的大部分的儿科医生，记录了他们就诊时间的统计。百分之80到90的就诊时间主要是用在五种类型的疾病。第一个是哮喘，第二个是发育迟缓，第三个是以四百倍速递增长的在过去的10到15年间罕见的发生在儿童阶段的癌症。第四和第五分别是儿童肥胖以及糖尿病相关疾病。因此所有这些，他们的共同点是什么？与环境相关联，而且是息息相关，对吗？它不是那些普遍意义上的医生们过去常常对付的细菌；这是一个关于健康完全不同的定义，因为健康是外在的，它是相互影响的，所以它是有很大优势的，为此，我们可以做很多去改善它，并非是内在的，而是由遗传或是个人来决定。
en:It&#39;s a handy-dandy quote from Hippocrates of the Hippocratic oaththat says, &quot;The greater part of the soul lays outside the body,treatment of the inner requires treatment of the outer.&quot;But that suggests the issuethat I&#39;m trying to get at here,that we have an opportunity to redefine what is health.Because this idea that health is internaland atomized and individualand pharmaceuticalis largely an error.And I would use this study,a recent study by Philip Landrigan,to motivate a different view of health,where he went to most of the pediatricians in Manhattanand the New York areaand logged what they spent their patient hours on.80 to 90 percent of their timewas spent on five things.Number one was asthma,number two was developmental delays,number three was 400-fold increasesin rare childhood cancersin the last eight to 10, 15 years.Number four and five were childhood obesityand diabetes-related issues.So all of those — what&#39;s common about all of those?The environment is implicated, radically implicated, right.This is not the germsthat medicos were trained to deal with;this is a different definition of health,health that has a great advantagebecause it&#39;s external, it&#39;s shared,we can do something about it,as opposed to internal, genetically predeterminedor individualized.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:来到诊所的人们不被称作是病人而是“没有耐心的人们”，因为他们没有耐心去等待立法上的改变去强调当地环境健康的重要性。我在大学里与这样的人见面，同时我也在其他一些地方建立了我的办公室就目前我们所面对的环境挑战，我提供些许的方法。我喜欢这个来自比利时地区的办公室，我们在一个环形交叉路口，确切地说，因为环形交叉路口使得错综复杂的公共运动图幅化使得公共交通变化更清晰，相较于严密管理的十字路口的红绿灯而言。在这种情况下，当然，在环形交叉路口人们不会等在原地被告知该如何去做，而做出微小的决定。但是，当然，它能承载更大的交通吞吐量，更少的事故，同时也是一个有趣的公共运动模式。
en:People who come to the clinic are called, not patients,but impatients,because they&#39;re too impatient to wait for legislative changeto address local and environmental health issues.And I meet them at the University, I also have a few field officesthat I set up in various placesthat provide an immersionin some of the environmental challenges we face.I like this one from the Belgian field office,where we met in a roundabout,precisely because the roundabout iconifiedthe headless social movementthat informs much social transformation,as opposed to the top-down controlof red light traffic intersections.In this case, of course, the roundaboutwith that micro-decisions being made in situby people not being told what to do.But, of course, affords greater throughput,fewer accidents,and an interesting model of social movement.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:我们还研发了一些监测实验计划：这是一个蝌蚪管理实验计划或者养蝌蚪，如果你愿意这样称呼。这是一个与蝌蚪有关的实验以当地的一个管理组织命名的该组织的决定能够直接影响水质。因此作为对水质的关注养一只蝌蚪在他们所关心的水样中。我们提供一系列的东西去帮助他们做些陪护动物的装置当他们在写博客时或是写邮件时都可以提供。这是遛蝌蚪在晚上的时候，带着你的蝌蚪散步。有趣的是因为我们在用蝌蚪，当然因为与我们人类相比，它们有最敏感的生物触觉，甚至比我们敏感好几倍在某些感觉上作为感觉作为对于整个工业污染的反应在生物上来说是很有意义的方式，我们称之为环境荷尔蒙或者荷尔蒙仿真器。
en:Some of the things that the monitoring protocols have developed:this is the tadpole bureaucrat protocol,or keeping tabs, if you will.What they are is an addition of tadpolesthat are named after a local bureaucratwhose decisions affect your water quality.So an impatient concerned for water qualitywould raise a tadpole bureaucratin a sample of water in which they&#39;re interested.And we give them a couple of things to do that,to help them do companion animal deviceswhile they&#39;re blogging and doing their email.This is a tadpole walkerto take your tadpole walking in the evening.And the interesting thing that happens —because we&#39;re using tadpoles, of course,because they have the most exquisite biosenses that we have,several orders of magnitude more sensitivethan some of our sensesfor sensing,responding in a biologically meaningful way,to that whole class of industrial contaminantswe call endocrine disruptorsor hormone emulators.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:说到晚上遛蝌蚪有些动态照片你的邻居很可能会问，“你在干什么？”然后你要介绍你的蝌蚪它是因为什么命名的。你要解释你在做什么蝌蚪的近况如何当然，这很容易发现然后它们也和我们一样需要甲状腺刺激素。因此下次你的邻居再看到你时他们会说：“你的蝌蚪最近如何？”然后你可以让他们同你的蝌蚪社交，因为环境健康诊所也有自己的社交体系不仅仅是为了那些“不耐心的人”，其他人甚至非人类以及人与非人类的社交。当然，这些环境荷尔蒙涉及到大量发生的乳腺癌，流行肥胖症，近两年半间开始发生在年轻的青春期女孩身上以及其它有关的东西。这个活动的结果就是，如果你成功的养了你的蝌蚪观察它的行为以及发展的活动，你将要去介绍你的蝌蚪给管理机构讨论你们发现的事实。
en:But by taking your tadpole out for a walk in the evening —there&#39;s a few action shots —your neighbors are likely to say, &quot;What are you doing?&quot;And then you have to introduce your tadpoleand who it&#39;s named after.You have to explain what you&#39;re doingand how the developmental events of a tadpoleare, of course, very observableand they use the same T3-mediated hormones that we do.And so next time your neighbor sees youthey&#39;ll say, &quot;How is that tadpole doing?&quot;And you can let them social network with your tadpole,because the Environmental Health Clinic has a social networking sitefor, not only impatients, humans,but non-humans,social networking for humans and non-humans.And of course, these endocrine disruptorsare things that are implicated in the breast cancer epidemic,the obesity epidemic,the two and a half year drop in the average age of onset of puberty in young girlsand other related things.The culmination of this is if you&#39;ve successfully raised your tadpole,observing the behavioraland developmental events,you will then go and introduce your tadpoleto its namesakeand discuss the evidence that you&#39;ve seen.
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:还有一个实验计划——我会很快地给大家介绍一下，只是给大家直观的感受，我们在做些什么，而不是要大家的尿样，而是跟你要一个老鼠样本。有人这里愿意分享么，幸运的话，与一只老鼠共同生活驯养老鼠？很幸运。老鼠，当然，是最典型的模式生物。他们是很好的环境健康的样本，因为不仅仅同是哺乳动物，它们还与你有共同的饮食，大部分它们与你处在相同的环境应激源中，共同的石棉水平和铅水平不论你面临的是哪个。它们在地理上来说比你收到的限制更多，因为我们不知道你是否曾今接触过持续性有机污染物在你的家中，职场或是还是孩子的时候。老鼠是个很好的代表。一开始要弄个不错的捕鼠器，当然这就是其中的一个。
en:Another quick protocol — and I&#39;m going to go through these quickly,but just to give you the material sense of what we&#39;re doing here —instead of asking you for urine samples,I&#39;ll ask you for a mouse sample.Anyone here lucky enough to share, to cohabit with a mouse —a domestic partnership with mice?Very lucky.Mice, of course, are the quintessentialmodel organism.They&#39;re even better models of environmental health,because not only the same mammalian biology,but they share your diet, largely.They share your environmental stressors,the asbestos levels and lead levels,whatever you&#39;re exposed to.And they&#39;re geographically more limited than you are,because we don&#39;t know if you&#39;ve been exposedto persistent organic pollutantsin your home, or occupationallyor as a child.Mice are a very good representation.So it starts by building a better mousetrap, of course.This is one of them.
时间： 6:17
zh-cn:与环境应激源相处是件很难处理的事。这里有人在服用抗抑郁剂么？（笑声）在曼哈顿有很多人服用我们测试了那些老鼠是否也自己服用抗抑郁症药物。这个是百忧解（抗抑郁药），这个是左洛复（抗抑郁药）这是一个黑色的豆形软糖，这个是肌肉松弛剂这些都是那些“不耐心的人们”所服用的。你们认为老鼠会自己服用抗抑郁药么？什么（观众：一定的，确实）你怎么知道？它们确实这么做了。这个是伏特加和酒精，杜松子酒和溶液。这老鼠还喜欢普通的水和肌肉松弛剂。我们发现什么了？伏特加，杜松子酒（观众：【不清楚】）没错，你非常了解老鼠。它们确实这么做了。它们喝起伏特加就像喝水一样，这很有意思。然后，当然，它们走到诱捕器中。那儿有个老式手机——老式手机得很好利用来联络诊所，我们到那儿去抓老鼠。我们提取血样对它做毛发和血样测试。
en:Coping with environmental stressors is tricky.Is anybody here on antidepressants?(Laughter)There&#39;s a lot of people in Manhattan are.And we were testing if the micewould also self-administer SSRIs.So this was Prozac, this was Zoloft,this was a black jellybean and this was muscle relaxant,all of which were the medications that the impatient was taking.So do you think the miceself-administered antidepressants?What&#39;s the — (Audience: Sure. Yes.)How did you know that? They did.This was vodka and solution, gin and solution.This guy also liked plain water and the muscle relaxant.Where&#39;s our expert?Vodka, gin —(Audience: [unclear])Yes. Yes. You know your mice well.They did, yes.So they drank as much vodka as they did plain water,which was interesting.Then of course, it goes into the entrapment device.There&#39;s an old cellphone in there — a good use for old cellphones —which dials the clinic, we go and pick up the mouse.We take the blood sampleand do the blood work and hair work on the mice.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:我想提一下这样做很大的一个好处那就是对健康的外在表现方式做一个很好的框架。不过通过这些，我们确实得到一些治疗方法。这与医学模式非常不同。为了提高水的质量，空气质量，或者更了解他们，改变他们你所做的一切都在与其他人共享你同大家一起分享好的水质，空气质量。然后，集体的力量凝聚的力量的的确确是我们可以利用的。因此我想给大家看一个我们诊所的治疗方法称作“非公园”。这是一个提高水质的处方。很多“没有耐心的人”对于水质及空气质量都很关心。我们所做的就是将消防栓一个“非公园”的空间与消防栓相联系我们采用将沥青去除的方式去开辟一块小的工程景观创造一个渗透作用的机会。
en:And I want to sort of point out the big advantageof framing health in this external way.But we do have a few prescription products through this.It&#39;s very different from the medical model.Anything you do to improve your water quality or air quality,or to understand it or to change it,the benefits are enjoyed by anyoneyou share that water quality or air quality with.And that aggregating effect,that collective action effect,is actually something we can use to our advantage.So I want to show you one prescription product in the cliniccalled the No Park.This is a prescription to improve water quality.Many impatients are very concerned for water quality and air quality.What we do is we take a fire hydrant,a &quot;no parking&quot; space associated with a fire hydrant,and we prescribe the removal of the asphaltto create an engineered micro landscape,to create an infiltration opportunity.
时间： 8:15
zh-cn:因为，大多数人都知道最大的污染负担我们目前在纽约，新泽西港湾所存在的不再是以点作为源头，也不再是很大的污染制造者，不再是通用电气，而是巨大的道路网那些无法渗透的表面聚集了来自汽车制动装置的所有的镉毒素或是浸透油的碳氢化合物废物即便是一次很小的风暴或是中世纪的基础设施都足以把它们冲入河口的水域中去。这一点都没有好处。几乎没有机会截住那些污染物在它们到达港湾之前，“没有耐心的人们”建立了这些在很多的城市街区一些非常有意思的方式。我想说，虽然它仅仅是靠经验实践的方法，在每个城市街区，大约有两到三个消防栓。建立小的工程景观去使污染物渗透我们并没有阻碍他们作为紧急停车的空间，因为，当然，消防车可以停在那里。可能会压平一些植物，但没有什么大碍，他们可以再种。但如果我们这么做了在每一个每隔一个消防栓我们可以重新定义紧急事件。就是，百分之99的情况下，当没有消防车停靠的时候，它用于渗透污染物。同时还帮助固定二氧化碳，隔离一些空气传播的污染物。同时聚集的这些小型的阻挡确实能够渗透路面的污染物阻止它们流入河口水域，即便是七英寸的大雨或是百年难遇的风暴。
en:Because, many of you will know,that the biggest pollution burdenthat we have on the New York, New Jersey harbor right nowis no longer the point sources,no longer the big polluters,no longer the GEs,but that massive network of roads,[those] impervious surfaces,that collect all that cadmium neurotoxin that comes from your brake linersor the oily hydrocarbon wastein every single storm event and medieval infrastructurewashes it straight into the estuary system.That doesn&#39;t do a lot of good.These are little opportunities to intercept those pollutantsbefore they enter the harbor,and they&#39;re produced by impatientson various city blocksin some very interesting ways.I just want to say it was sort of a rule of thumb though,there&#39;s about two or three fire hydrantson every city block.By creating engineered micro landscapes to infiltrate in them,we don&#39;t prevent them from being usedas emergency vehicle parking spaces,because, of course, a firetruck can come and park there.They flatten a few plants. No big deal, they&#39;ll regenerate.But if we did thisin every single —every fire hydrantwe could redefine the emergency.That 99 percent of the timewhen a firetruck is not parking there,it&#39;s infiltrating pollutants.It&#39;s also increasing fixing CO2s,sequestering some of the airborne pollutants.And aggregated,these smaller interceptionscould actually infiltrate all the roadborne pollutionthat now runs into the estuary system,up to a seven inch rain event, up to a hundred-year storm.
时间： 9:50
zh-cn:因此这些小小的行动可以产生巨大的效果来提高当地的环境健康。这是那些比较有抱负的计划中的一个气候危机是二次的，更潜在的影响极广的危机有哪些危机处理的相关部门又该做些什么呢？买当地的生菜，或是换一个灯泡，开车限速，常换轮胎，这些行为未必有效在面对气候危机的时候。这是个很有趣的图片，发生在你们知道这些：沉降物掩蔽所。什么是应对气候危机的沉降物掩蔽所呢？这个是市民的活动区域。教堂，学校医院，私人住所每个人都能在几个月之内建起其中的一个。他们始终是市民活动的符号当面对共享的，不确定的，集体的危机时。
en:So these are small actionsthat can amount to a significant effectto improve local environmental health.This is one of the more ambitious ones.What the climate crisis has revealed to usis a secondary, more insidiousand more pervasive crisis,which is the crisis of agency,which is what to do.Somehow buying a local lettuce, changing a light bulb,driving the speed limit, changing your tires regularly,doesn&#39;t seem sufficientin the face of climate crisis.And this is an interesting icon that happened —you remember these: fallout shelters.What is the fallout shelterfor the climate crisis?This was civic mobilization.Churches, school groups,hospitals, private residents —everyone built one of these in a matter of months.And they still remainas icons of civic responsein the face of shared, uncertain, collective threat.
时间：10:47
zh-cn:作为气候危机的沉降物掩蔽所，我想说，它看起来有点像这个或是这个俨然是个城市农业设施依据我们在纽约大学实验室做的。其实它依据的是个非常简单的想法就是——将曼哈顿产生的百分之80到90的二氧化碳用于建筑相关的东西就像一个商业的温室，我们将建筑物中的二氧化碳取出充满二氧化碳气体的空气我们将其注入到城市农业设施中，然后我们再补充富氧空气。事实上，我们不能在顶上弄太多，它们不适合。而是在支柱上将所有的载荷都放在砌筑墙和柱子上。就像一个仓库凸起使用一些开放的硬件。这是一个四分之一比例的原型在西班牙运作这是它看起来的样子，十指交叉的纽约大学设计的。
en:Fallout shelter for the climate crisis,I would say, looks something like this, or this,which is an intensive urban agriculture facilitythat&#39;s due to go on my lab building at NYU.What it doesis a very simple ideaof taking —80 to 90 percent of the CO2 produced in Manhattanis building related —we take, just like a commercial greenhouse,we take the CO2 from the building —CO2-enriched air —we force it through the urban agriculture facility,and then we resupply oxygen-enriched air.You can&#39;t actually build much on a roof, they&#39;re not designed for that.So it&#39;s on legs,so it focuses all the load on the masonry walls and the columns.It&#39;s built as a barn raising,using open source hardware.This is the quarter-scale prototypethat was functioning in Spain.This is what it will look like, fingers crossed,NYU willing.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:我想给大家看的是其实这是我们最近在试验的东西的一个部分太阳能烟囱，目前，我们在纽约的17处安放了它们将空气被动地上抬。你知道，太阳能烟囱。高温气体上升。你把些许黑色塑料放在建筑物的侧面，它将会升温，这样就得到了被动的气流。我们所做的实际上就是把一个标准的过滤系统放在上面。它事实上能够过滤掉百分之95的炭黑，而这个东西，与臭氧一起使得全球变暖起码一半都受其影响，因为附着在积雪上，它能改变反射物，进而改变大气的传输质量。炭黑是一种灰尘要不然附着在你健康的肺上，或是与此相关的。它不是很好的物质，来自于不完全燃烧并非燃烧本身。当我们把它放到我们的太阳能烟囱时，我们过滤掉了大约百分之95。然后我和学生们一起把它取出事实上，我们重新利用了那些炭黑。把他们做成铅笔，它的长度用来测量我们从空气中过滤出的灰尘。这是我们目前所做的烟囱中的一个。这是他们把它抬起来的照片还有急切的铅笔使用者。
en:And what I want to show you is —actually this is one of the components of it that we&#39;ve just recently been testing —which is a solar chimney —we have got 17 of them now put around New York at the moment —that passively draws air up.You understand a solar chimney.Hot air rises.You put a bit of black plastic on the side of a building,it&#39;ll heat up, and you&#39;ll get passive airflow.What we do is actuallyput a standard HVAC filter on the top of that.That actually removes about 95 percentof the carbon black,that stuff that, with ozone,is responsible for about half of global warming&#39;s effects,because it changes, it settles on the snow,it changes the reflectors,it changesthe transmission qualities of the atmosphere.Carbon black is that grimethat otherwise lodges in your pretty pink lungs,and it&#39;s associated with.It&#39;s not good stuff, and it&#39;s from inefficient combustion,not from combustion itself.When we put it through our solar chimney,we remove actually about 95 percent of that.And then I swap it outwith the studentsand actually re-release that carbon black.And we make pencils the length of which measures the grimethat we&#39;ve pulled out of the air.Here&#39;s one of them that we have up now.Here&#39;s who put them up and who are avid pencil users.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:好的，我还想给大家再看两个联系因为我认为，我们人类面临的其中一个最大的挑战就是重新想象我们与自然系统的关系不仅仅是通过这个变革的个人健康模式而是通过那些动物与我们共同居住的动物。不仅仅只有我们自己，动物们也在进入到城市中。事实上，城市移民也包括被大家认为是野生的进入到城市中心的动物们。你知道，中央公园有丛林狼，河流港口有鲸韦斯特切斯特县有麋鹿。它一直都发生在这发达的世界可能是因为失去了居住地也可能是因为城市更适合它们居住相比于它们过去的栖息地。而我们所创造的每一片绿地都是对非人类与我们共同居住的邀请。但我们有些缺乏想象力如何能很好地做到这些，有趣地接受。我想给大家看些从技术角度上说的联系我们发展的，取名为“ooz”把zoo(动物园）倒过来，没有束缚的笼子去尝试，去改变人与动物的关系。这个是鸟类的交流方式。它是这样的。当一只鸟停在上面，他们发出一个音频文件。这个实际上装在惠特尼博物馆，有6个每一个的的内容都不一样不同的音频文件。内容比如说这个。
en:Okay, so I want to show youjust two more interfaces,because I think one of our big challengesis re-imagining our relationship to natural systems,not only through this modelof twisted personalized health,but through the animalswith whom we cohabit.We are not alone; the animals are moving in.In fact, urban migration now describesthe movement of animals formerly known as wildinto urban centers.You know, coyote in Central Park, a whale in the Gowanus Canal,elk in Westchester County.It&#39;s happening all over the Developed World,probably for loss of habitat,but also because our cities are a little bit more livablethan they have been.And every green space we createis an invitation for non-humans to cohabit with us.But we&#39;ve kind of lacked imaginationin how we could do that well or interestingly.And I want to show you a few of the technological interfacesthat have been developed under the moniker of OOZ —which is zoo backwards and without cages —to try and reformthat relationship.This is communication technology for birds. It looks like this.When a bird lands on it, they trigger a sound file.This is actually in the Whitney Museum, where there were six of them,each of which had a different argument on it,different sound file.They said things like this.
时间：14:11
zh-cn:（口哨声）
en:(Whistling)
时间：14:13
zh-cn:录音：下面是你应该去做的。下楼去，到健康食品的小卖部买一些你称之为鸟食的东西把它们拿回来，撒到周围。你就是个不错的人。
en:Recorded Voice: Here&#39;s what you need to do.Go down there and buy some of those health food bars,the ones you call bird food,and bring it here and scatter it around.There&#39;s a good person.
时间：14:26
zh-cn:Natalie Jeremijenko：好（笑声）有一些这样的装置。鸟儿们可以从一个跳到另一个。他们只是平常的城市鸽子。一个早期的实验哪个言论更能得大家的配合十有八九的人都认为就是下面这个效果最好。
en:Natalie Jeremijenko: Okay. (Laugher)So there was several of these.The birds were able to jump from one to the other.These are just your average urban pigeon.And an early testwhich argument elicited cooperative behaviorfrom the people below —about a hundred to onedecided that this was the argumentthat worked best on us.
时间：14:49
zh-cn:录音：滴，滴，滴。这是禽流感基因变异变成对人类致命的流感的声音。你知道如何使它变慢么？健康的鸟类群体一般说来提高了物种的多样性。我能够健康，快乐，喂得饱饱的，这都归功于大家的互利。因此，你应该分享你的营养资源而不是独自享有。那就是，分享你的午餐吧。
en:Recorded Voice: Tick, tick, tick.That&#39;s the sound of genetic mutationsof the avian flubecoming a deadly human flu.Do you know what slows it down?Healthy sub-populations of birds,increasing biodiversity generally.It is in your interests that I&#39;m healthy,happy, well-fed.Hence, you could share some of your nutritional resourcesinstead of monopolizing them.That is, share your lunch.
时间：15:18
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：15:20
zh-cn:NJ：它确实有效，真的。最后一个我想给大家看的项目是关于鱼的新联系我们刚刚投入的事实上下周正式启动来自建筑联合会的邀请。你可能不知道你需要和鱼类交流但现在有这样的装置可以帮助你这么做。它看起来像这样：漂在水面上的浮标上面突出三英尺，下面三英尺。当有鱼在下面游过时，一盏灯就亮了，就像这样。这里还有另一个功能。这个顶灯是——不好意思我可能让大家晕船了这个顶灯事实上是一个水质测量显示装置。当溶解氧浓度低的时候，它是红色的；当溶解氧浓度高时，颜色会变成蓝绿色。然后，你也可以给鱼传递信息。下面那里有名片会给你联系的细节内容。它们会反馈给你信息。当浮标得到你的信息后，它们会闪烁两次，表示已经获取信息。不过或许最受欢迎的是我们在布朗克斯河有另外一系列浮标，在这里，第一只海狸他很疯狂来到纽约，建了住的地方在250年前，闲逛。从一只海狸数据更新。你也可以报名从他那里更新，你可以和他交谈。
en:NJ: It worked, and it&#39;s true.The final project I&#39;d like to show youis a new interface for fishthat has just been launched —it&#39;s actually officially launched next week —with a wonderful commission from the Architectural League.You may not have known that you need to communicate with fish,but there is now a device for you to do so.It looks like this: buoys that float on the water,project three foot up, three foot down.When a fish swims underneath, a light goes on.This is what it looks like.So there&#39;s another function on here.This top light is — I&#39;m sorry if I&#39;m making you seasick —this top light is actually a water quality displaythat shifts from red, when the dissolved oxygen is low,to a blue/green, when its dissolved oxygen is high.And then you can also text the fish.So there&#39;s business cards down therethat&#39;ll give you contact details.And they text back.When the buoys get your text, they wink at you twice to say, we&#39;ve got your message.But perhaps the most popular has beenthat we&#39;ve got another array of these boys in the Bronx River,where the first beaver —crazy as he is —to have moved in and built a lodge in New Yorkin 250 years, hangs out.So updates from a beaver.You can subscribe to updates from him. You can talk to him.
时间：16:38
zh-cn:我认为的是这是一个界面重新书写我们与自然系统的互动方式，尤其是改变了谁有信息他们把它存在何处，谁能利用这些信息，你又能做些什么。在这种情况下，不是将你的口香糖或是奇多圈，不论什么在你口袋里的，扔给鱼儿们。我曾经处理过在冰岛城市中央的一块水域，对于它来说，最大的污染压力并非由马路产生的污染，而事实上却是白面包那些人们用来喂鱼和鸟的。我们开发了一些鱼食来代替那些东西人们可以使用它们喂鱼。味道很好。而且它们可以供很多跨物种食用，对人类和非人类来说都很美味。同时它们含有螯合剂。从营养学上来说很适合而不像奇多圈。所以每次当你想与动物们互动的时候，到处都有这样的标语“请勿给动物喂食。”在纽约的每个城市公园里大约都有三个这样的标语。在黄石公园“请勿喂食”的标语比你想要喂食的动物还要多。但这样的行为将被重新改写，把它作为一种机会提供一些营养的食物的机会，这样可以提高我们所浪费的营养资源从而增加鱼类种群数量同时增多螯合剂，就像我们的药用的螯合剂，它抑制生物累积的重金属以及多氯联苯它们附着在这个特定区域生活的鱼身上，使它们能把它作为无害的盐类排出。在反应上很复杂，但在生物有效性上，排除它非常有效。
en:And what I like to think ofis this is an interfacethat re-scripts how we interact with natural systems,specifically by changing who has information,where they have it,who can make sense of that information,and what you can do about it.In this case, instead of throwing chewing gum,or Doritos or whatever you have in your pocket at the fish —There&#39;s a body of water in Iceland that I&#39;ve been dealing withthat&#39;s in the middle of the city,and the largest pollution burden on itis not the roadborne pollution,it&#39;s actually white breadfrom people feeding the fish and the birds.Instead of doing that actually, we&#39;ve developed some fish sticksthat you can feed the fish.They&#39;re delicious.They&#39;re cross-species delicious that is,delicious for humans and non-humans.But they also have a chelating agent in them.They&#39;re nutritionally appropriate,not like Doritos.And so every timethat desire to interact with the animals,which is at least as ubiquitousas that sign: &quot;Do not feed the animals.&quot;And there&#39;s about three of them on every New York City park.And Yellowstone National Park,there&#39;s more &quot;do not feed the animals&quot; signsthan there are animals you might wish to feed.But in that action, that interaction,by re-scripting that,by changing it into an opportunityto offer food that is nutritionally appropriate,that could augment the nutritional resourcesthat we ourselves have depletedfor augmenting the fish populationand also adding chelating agent,which, like any chelating agent that we use medicinally,binds to the bioaccumulated heavy metals and PCBsthat are in the fishliving in this particular habitatand allows them to pass it out as a harmless saltwhere it&#39;s complexed by a reactive,effectively removing it from bioavailability.
时间：18:32
zh-cn:但我想说那样的互动重新改写的互动变成一种集体行为，集体的重新调节的行为，与此方法很不一样的是我们在哈得孙河所使用的方法，我们在那里挖掘出多氯联苯经过了三十年的立法上的斗争，通用电气为挖掘买单这个世界上最大的超级基金。我们把它挖掘出来，很可能已经被运出宾夕法尼亚了，到了附近的第三世界的国家中去，在那里它们仍然是有毒的淤泥。转移不是解决环境问题的方法。而这正是我们正在使用的典型模式。
en:But I wanted to say that interaction,re-scripting that interaction,into collective action, collective remediative action,very different from the approachthat&#39;s being used on the other side on the Hudson River,where we&#39;re dredging the PCBs —after 30 years of legislative and legal struggle,GE&#39;s paying for the dredgingof the largest Superfund site in the world —we&#39;re dredging it, and it&#39;ll probably get shipped off to Pennsylvaniaor the nearest Third World country,where it will continue to be toxic sludge.Displacement is not the way to deal with environmental issues.And that&#39;s typically the paradigmunder which we&#39;ve operated.
时间：19:14
zh-cn:应该实际地抓住机会使用新技术，新的互动技术，当前改写我们互动的方法，改写它们并非孤立的，个体的互动；而是集体的，凝聚的，那种可以累积的互动行动，我们可以真正的开始处理一些重要的环境挑战。
en:By actually taking the opportunitythat new technologies,new interactive technologies, presentto re-script our interactions,to script them,not just as isolated, individuated interactions,but as collective aggregating actionsthat can amount to something,we can really begin to addresssome of our important environmental challenges.
时间：19:37
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：19:39
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
