时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想谈谈这次的大选。这是美国历史上第一次，多数的白人把票投给了一个非洲裔总统候选人。而实际上贝拉克·奥巴马的确表现的很好。他赢得了375张选举人的投票。而且他还赢得了大约7000万的民众选票。比其他任何的总统候选人的票数都要多，无论是来自任何政党，任何种族。如果对比一下奥巴马与四年前约翰·克里的表现—民主党人还真是很高兴看到这一转变，几乎每一个州都变得比以前更蓝了，变得更民主了—即使是在奥巴马没有赢的那些州，像是除西部之外的那些。那些州也变的更蓝了。在南部地区，东北地区，几乎到处都是但是各个地方也有那么几个例外。
en:I want to talk about the election.For the first time in the United States, a predominantly white group of votersvoted for an African-American candidate for President.And in fact Barack Obama did quite well.He won 375 electoral votes.And he won about 70 million popular votesmore than any other presidential candidate —of any race, of any party — in history.If you compare how Obama did against how John Kerry had done four years earlier —Democrats really like seeing this transition here,where almost every state becomes bluer, becomes more democratic —even states Obama lost, like out west,those states became more blue.In the south, in the northeast, almost everywherebut with a couple of exceptions here and there.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:一个例外是在马萨诸塞州。那个州是约翰·克里的家乡。奥巴马在那的表现不如克里也没什么好奇怪的。或者是在亚利桑那州，约翰·麦凯恩的家乡，奥巴马也没有太大的进展。但是在美国也有这样一部分差不多在中部的地区。像是阿肯色州，田纳西州，俄克拉荷马州，西弗吉尼亚州这类的地方。如果你现在看一下96年，比尔·克林顿，最后一位取得胜利的民主党人，他在96年的表现，就在这你会看到美国的这个地区巨大的差异—像是阿巴拉契亚山脉，奥索卡山脉这样的高原地区，我是这么叫的。二十或三十点的波动自从比尔·克林顿在96年的表现到奥巴马的表现在2008年里。是的，比尔·克林顿确实是来自阿肯色州的，但是这些也都是非常非常巨大的差异。
en:One exception is in Massachusetts.That was John Kerry&#39;s home state.No big surprise, Obama couldn&#39;t do better than Kerry there.Or in Arizona, which is John McCain&#39;s home,Obama didn&#39;t have much improvement.But there is also this part of the country, kind of in the middle region here.This kind of Arkansas, Tennessee, Oklahoma, West Virginia region.Now if you look at &#39;96, Bill Clinton —the last Democrat to actually win — how he did in &#39;96,you see real big differences in this part of the country right here,the kind of Appalachians, Ozarks, highlands region, as I call it:20 or 30 point swingsfrom how Bill Clinton did in &#39;96 to how Obama didin 2008.Yes Bill Clinton was from Arkansas, but these are very, very profound differences.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:所以，当我们想到像美国阿肯色州这样的地方的时候，你们就了解了吧。有一本叫《堪萨斯州是怎么了？》的书但问题就是—奥巴马在堪萨斯州的表现相对来说还是不错的。他确实输的很惨，但是每个民主党人也都会输。他输的其实还不像大部分人那么惨。不过是呀，阿肯色州又是怎么了？（笑声）而当我们想到阿肯色州的时候我们会倾向于有一种很消极的概念。（原话起）“我们会想到一群乡下人”（原话止）拿着枪。而我们觉得像这样的人大概是不会想把票投给像这样的长相，名字叫贝拉克·奥巴马的人的。我们认为这是种族问题。而这样想公平吗？我们是不是有点在侮蔑来自阿肯色州乃至美国这个地区的人？
en:So, when we think about parts of the country like Arkansas, you know.There is a book written called, &quot;What&#39;s the Matter with Kansas?&quot;But really the question here — Obama did relatively well in Kansas.He lost badly but every Democrat does.He lost no worse than most people do.But yeah, what&#39;s the matter with Arkansas?(Laughter)And when we think of Arkansas we tend to have pretty negative connotations.We think of a bunch of rednecks, quote, unquote, with guns.And we think people like this probably don&#39;t want to votefor people who look like this and are named Barack Obama.We think it&#39;s a matter of race. And is this fair?Are we kind of stigmatizing people from Arkansas, and this part of the country?
时间： 2:07
zh-cn:而答案是，至少一部分是公平的。我们知道种族确实是一个因素，而我们明白这个道理的原因是因为我们询问了那些人。其实我们没有真的去问他们，只是当他们组织每个州投票之后的民意调查的时候在50个州中的37个州他们相当直接的询问了一个关于种族的问题。他们问的是这个问题：在你做出投票决定的时候时，候选人的种族是一个影响因素吗？我们找的是那些回答：“是的，种族是一个影响因素；而且在我的决定中是一个重要的因素。”的人而为约翰·麦凯恩投票的那些人结果就是因为那个因素，也许还夹杂着其他的因素，也许只是这一个。我们在白种人投票者中寻找着有这样看法的人，或者实际上就是那些非黑人选民。
en:And the answer is: it is at least partially fair.We know that race was a factor, and the reason why we know thatis because we asked those people.Actually we didn&#39;t ask them, but when they conductedexit polls in every state,in 37 states, out of the 50,they asked a question, that was pretty direct, about race.They asked this question.In deciding your vote for President today, was the raceof the candidate a factor?We&#39;re looking for people that said, &quot;Yes, race was a factor;moreover it was an important factor, in my decision,&quot;and people who voted for John McCainas a result of that factor,maybe in combination with other factors, and maybe alone.We&#39;re looking for this behavior among white votersor, really, non-black voters.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:所以你们可以看到美国不同的地区都是有很大的差异的在这个问题上。在路易斯安那州，大约5个白种人投票者中就有一个说：“是的，我投票反对贝拉克·奥巴马的很大原因之一就是因为他是一个非裔美国人。如果那些人当初把票投给了奥巴马，即使只有一半，奥巴马都会很有把握地赢得路易斯安那州。我觉得单子上面你们看到的这些名次靠上的州都是一样的情况。同时，还有加利福尼亚州和纽约州。我们可以说：”哦，我们真是很受启迪呀，“但是你们知道，肯定这个的认可度是相当低的我猜想，那些表明了建立在人种基础上的投票。这里有一张地图上显示着同样的数据。你们大概可以看到那些更红一些的州之间的关系，在那些地方更多的人回答说：”是的，奥巴马的种族之前对我来说是一个难题。“你们看，把这张地图与96年的相比，大家会看到这有一个重叠的地方。这个似乎真的解释了为什么在美国的同一个地方，奥巴马的表现更糟糕。
en:So you see big differences in different partsof the country on this question.In Louisiana, about one in five white voterssaid, &quot;Yes, one of the big reasons why I voted against Barack Obamais because he was an African-American.&quot;If those people had voted for Obama,even half of them, Obama would have won Louisiana safely.Same is true with, I think, all of these states you see on the top of the list.Meanwhile, California, New York, we can say, &quot;Oh we&#39;re enlightened&quot;but you know, certainly a much lower incidence of thisadmitted, I suppose,manifestation of racially-based voting.Here is the same data on a map.You kind of see the relationship betweenthe redder states of where more people responded and said,&quot;Yes, Barack Obama&#39;s race was a problem for me.&quot;You see, comparing the map to &#39;96, you see an overlap here.This really seems to explainwhy Barack Obama did worsein this one part of the country.
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:所以我们要问问为什么。是不是种族歧视在某种程度上是可以预测的？是不是有什么东西导致了这样的结果？是不是只是阿肯色州有一些我们不能理解的古怪的念头还有肯塔基州？还是有更多系统性的因素在起作用？所以让我们来看看这一群不同的可变因素。这些东西都是经济学家和政治学家们常看的—像是收入，宗教和受教育程度。这些里面哪些看起来更像是导致种族歧视的因素在11月4日这样一个美国做出重大决定的日子里出现的呢？（大选）而其中的一些因素预示着强烈的关联性—其中之一就是受教育程度。你们看到那些平均每个成年人受教育年数最少的州都是红色的，而你们看到美国的阿巴拉契亚山脉这个地区，受教育程度是很低的。这确实是个事实。然后你可以看到它们的联系就是都是建立在种族基础上的投票模式。另一个很重要的变数是你生活的地方周围的邻居都是什么样的。那些更乡村化一些的州，甚至一些像是新罕布什尔和缅因这样的州，他们也表现出了一点点倾向于这种建立在种族基础上的投票而反对奥巴马。所以这两样东西是联合起来的。其实就是你的受教育程度和周围邻居的类型，我们一会儿再具体的谈一谈。关于州的这个事，像是阿肯色和田纳西州就是因为他们都是非常乡村化的州，而且他们的教育也很落后。
en:So we have to ask why.Is racism predictable in some way?Is there something driving this?Is it just about some weird stuff that goes on in Arkansasthat we don&#39;t understand, and Kentucky?Or are there more systematic factors at work?And so we can look at a bunch of different variables.These are things that economists and political scientists look at all the time —things like income, and religion, education.Which of these seem to drivethis manifestation of racismin this big national experiment we had on November 4th?And there are a couple of these that havestrong predictive relationships,one of which is education,where you see the states with the fewest years of schoolingper adult are in red,and you see this part of the country, the kind of Appalachians region,is less educated. It&#39;s just a fact.And you see the relationship therewith the racially-based voting patterns.The other variable that&#39;s important isthe type of neighborhood that you live in.States that are more rural —even to some extent of the states like New Hampshire and Maine —they exhibit a little bit ofthis racially-based voting against Barack Obama.So it&#39;s the combination of these two things: it&#39;s educationand the type of neighbors that you have,which we&#39;ll talk about more in a moment.And the thing about states like Arkansas and Tennesseeis that they&#39;re both very rural,and they are educationally impoverished.
时间： 4:52
zh-cn:所以种族偏见确实是可以预料到的。这些因素，也许其他的可变因素也有涉及，但是看上去这些因素更有预见性。我们现在再深入的挖掘一下。General Social Survey（社会调查）是由芝加哥大学发起的，隔年会有一次。而且他们会问一系列非常有意思的问题。在2000年他们的问题非常独特有趣是关于对于种族的看法的。他们问了的一个很简单的问题就是，“你的邻居里有异族的吗？”我们可以看到不同类型的群体结果也是相当不同的。在城市里，大约80%的人认为周围的邻居有一些是其他种族的。但是在乡村这个群体里，大约只有30%。很有可能是因为如果你住在农场里，你周围就不会有太多的邻居，就是这样了。但是无论如何，你跟那些异族的人都没有太多的互动。所以我们现在要做的就是把那些白人都包括到调查中然后再把他们分成周围的邻居里有黑人或者是一些其他种族的人。和周围的邻居里只有白人。而我们看到的一些有关政治态度方面的可变因素其结果也没有太大的差异。这个是八年前的，那时的共和党人更多一些。但是你们看民主党与共和党相比，建立在你有什么样的邻居基础上的差异也不是很大。
en:So yes, racism is predictable.These things, among maybe other variables,but these things seem to predict it.We&#39;re going to drill down a little bit more now,into something called the General Social Survey.This is conducted by the University of Chicagoevery other year.And they ask a series of really interesting questions.In 2000 they had particularly interesting questionsabout racial attitudes.One simple question they asked is,&quot;Does anyone of the opposite race live in your neighborhood?&quot;We can see in different types of communities that the results are quite different.In cites, about 80 percent of peoplehave someone whom they consider a neighbor of another race,but in rural communities, only about 30 percent.Probably because if you live on a farm, you might not have a lot of neighbors, period.But nevertheless, you&#39;re not having a lot of interaction with peoplewho are unlike you.So what we&#39;re going to do now is take the white people in the surveyand split them between those who have black neighbors —or, really, some neighbor of another race —and people who have only white neighbors.And we see in some variablesin terms of political attitudes, not a lot of difference.This was eight years ago, some people were more Republican back then.But you see Democrats versus Republican,not a big difference based on who your neighbors are.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:而且甚至一些关于种族的问题，例如那个积极区别对待政策，有点带有政治性的问题，如果你愿意的话也可以把它看作是一个关于种族的政策性问题。在这也没有太大的差异。坦白的说积极区别对待政策在白人投票者中并不是很受欢迎，基本是这个样子。但是无论是周围有黑人邻居还是周围邻居种族都很单一的人其实都不会感到异样。然而如果再深入的探寻一下，如果你愿意的话可以再私人化一些，“你赞成禁止异族通婚这个法律吗？”结果的差异非常大。那些邻居中没有其他种族而反对异族通婚的人大约是那些邻居中有其他种族的人的二倍。这个其实就是建立在你的近邻的基础之上。而且与此同时，还是在1996年而非2000年的那个同样的调查中，他们问道“你们是不是不会投票给一个合格的黑人总统？”你们会发现那些没有非裔美国邻居的人更有可能会说：”那样会给我带来麻烦。“
en:And even some questions about race — for exampleaffirmative action, which is kind of a political question,a policy question about race, if you will —not much difference here.Affirmative action is not very popular frankly, with white voters, period.But people with black neighbors and people with mono-racial neighborhoodsfeel no differently about it really.But if you probe a bit deeper and get a bit more personal if you will,&quot;Do you favor a law banning interracial marriage?&quot;There is a big difference.People who don&#39;t have neighbors of a different raceare about twice as likelyto oppose interracial marriage as people who do.Just based on who lives in your immediate neighborhood around you.And likewise they asked, not in 2000, but in the same survey in 1996,&quot;Would you not vote for a qualified black president?&quot;You see people without neighbors who are African-American whowere much more likely to say, &quot;That would give me a problem.&quot;
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:所以这个问题真的也不能说是城市对乡村的问题。其实就看你跟什么样的人住在一起。种族歧视其实是可以预见的。它是可以通过互相影响或者周围缺少跟你种族不同的人从而预见到结果。所以如果想解决这个问题，咱们的目标应该就是促进不同种族之间的交流。我想我这里的几个非常显而易见的想法也许可以让咱们去做到那样。
en:So it&#39;s really not even about urban versus rural.It&#39;s about who you live with.Racism is predictable. And it&#39;s predicted byinteraction or lack thereof with people unlike you, people of other races.So if you want to address it,the goal is to facilitate interaction with people of other races.I have a couple of very obvious, I suppose,ideas for maybe how to do that.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:我是个城市的狂热者。尤其是对那些多样化而且比较平衡可以支持不同的种族划分和不同的收入人群的城市。我觉得那些城市它们可以在你以往的日常活动的基础之上给你带来更多的人际关系网，和一些比较随意的互动。但是当然了不是每一个人都想住在城市，而且肯定也不会像是纽约那样的城市。所以我们可以多想想像这样棋盘式街道布局之类的东西。这是我长大的地方密歇根州的东兰辛市周围临近的情况。这是一个传统的中西部社区，它代表着街道的布局都是整整齐齐的格子状的。你的邻居，周围的树木和你走的街道都是实实在在的。而且你会跟邻居有很多交流和互动，还有那些你喜欢的或者你也许不认识的人。所以结果这样的社区接受外来事物的能力非常高，起码我认为比像是伊利诺斯州的绍姆堡这样的地方高很多。在绍姆堡每一小片房子周围都会有死胡同和类似于星巴克这种不用下车便可以得到服务的地方。我觉得其实像这种在70和80年代就变的很普遍的市区内的设计形式，我认为其实跟它还是有一定关系的而且在罗纳德·里根的领导下，美国变得更加保守了。
en:I&#39;m a big fan of cities.Especially if we have cites that are diverse and sustainable,and can support people of different ethnicities and different income groups.I think cities facilitate more of the kind of networking,the kind of casual interaction than you might have on a daily basis.But also not everyone wants to live in a city, certainly not a city like New York.So we can think more about things like street grids.This is the neighborhood where I grew up in East Lansing, Michigan.It&#39;s a traditional Midwestern community, which means you have real grid.You have real neighborhoods and real trees, and real streets you can walk on.And you interact a lot with your neighbors —people you like, people you might not know.And as a result it&#39;s a very tolerant community,which is different, I think, than something like this,which is in Schaumburg, Illinois,where every little set of houses has their own cul-de-sacand drive-through Starbucks and stuff like that.I think that actually this type of urban design,which became more prevalent in the 1970s and 1980s —I think there is a relationship between that and the country becomingmore conservative under Ronald Reagan.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:但是同时，这里还有另一个想法—那就是一个学院间的交换项目你可以吸取来自纽约的学生，但是老实说现在国内的差异已经够大的了也许你可以带着一帮纽约大学的孩子去阿肯色大学学习一个学期，而反之亦然。我们在高中这个阶段就要去开展它。其实也许那些在阿肯色或田纳西州上学的人永远都不会跟那些来自国内其他地区或其他种族群体的人有非常积极正面的交流。我觉得我们之前谈过的在教育这个可变因素中一部分就是当你去上大学的时候你所能得到的人际交往的经验你可能确实会遇到那些你并不怎么会去交流的其他种族的人
en:But also here is another idea we have —is an intercollegiate exchange programwhere you have students going from New York abroad.But frankly there are enough differences within the country nowwhere maybe you can take a bunch of kids from NYU,have them go study for a semester at the University of Arkansas,and vice versa. Do it at the high school level.Literally there are people who might be in school in Arkansas or Tennesseeand might never interact in a positive affirmative waywith someone from another part of the country, or of another racial group.I think part of the education variable we talked about beforeis the networking experience you get when you go to collegewhere you do get a mix of people that you might not interact with otherwise.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:但是关键是，这些其实都是很有益处的。因为当一些东西是可以预测的时候，那么我就会说它是可计划性的。你就可以开始去想解决问题的方法。即使这个问题带有潜移默化的伤害，即使它像种族问题一样难处理。如果我们理解导致这一行为的根本原因和那些可以揭示或不可以揭示它本身的因素，那么我们就可以设计解决方案了。那么这些就是我所要说的了。非常感谢。（掌声）
en:But the point is, this is all good news,because when something is predictable,it is what I call designable.You can start thinking about solutions to solving that problem,even if the problem is pernicious and as intractable as racism.If we understand the root causes of the behaviorand where it manifests itself and where it doesn&#39;t,we can start to design solutions to it.So that&#39;s all I have to say. Thank you very much.(Applause)
