时间： 0:11
zh-cn:当大多数人思索艾滋病的起源时，他们会回想到20世纪80年代。当然，就是在这个十年里，我们发现了艾滋病，以及导致该病的病毒，艾滋病病毒。但是事实上，这个病毒在几十年前就已经从黑猩猩身上交叉感染到了人类身上，病毒在黑猩猩身上首次发现，然后传染到捕猎这些猿类的人类身上。
en:When most people think about the beginningsof AIDS, they&#39;re gonna think back to the 1980s.And certainly, this was the decade in which we discovered AIDSand the virus that causes it, HIV.But in fact this virus crossed over into humans many decades before,from chimpanzees, where the virus originated, into humans who hunt these apes.
时间： 0:30
zh-cn:这张照片是大萧条之前，在刚果的布拉扎维拍摄的。那时，有成千上百的人，在我们看来，是被艾滋病病毒感染的。
en:This photo was taken before the Great Depressionin Brazzaville, Congo.At this time, there were thousands of individuals,we think, that were infected with HIV.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:所以我有几个非常重要的问题要问你们。如果病毒存在于数千人的体内，那么为什么直到1984年我们才发现这个病毒呢？现在，更重要的是，我们生活在20世纪40年代，50年代，还是60年代，我们看到这个疾病了吗，我们明白这个病到底是怎么回事吗？我们明白，它是怎样改变，而且完全改变了流行性疾病的本质吗？
en:So I have a couple of really important questions for you.If this virus was in thousandsof individuals at this point,why was it the case that it took us until 1984to be able to discover this virus?OK now, more importantly,had we been there in the &#39;40s and &#39;50s, &#39;60s,had we seen this disease, had we understoodexactly what was going on with it, how might that have changed and completelytransformed the nature of the way this pandemic moved?
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:事实上，不仅仅是艾滋病病毒。很多的病毒都来自于动物。你可以想成是病毒的金字塔依次从动物到人类但是只有在金字塔的最顶端，这些事情才会发生在人类身上。不过，我们花了大量的精力专注于金字塔的等级试着处理人类已经完全习惯的事情这些解决起来会非常非常的困难，就像我们看到的艾滋病病毒一样。
en:In fact, this is not unique to HIV. The vast majority ofviruses come from animals.And you can kind of think of this as a pyramid of this bubbling up of virusesfrom animals into human populations.But only at the very top of this pyramid do these things become completely human.Nevertheless, we spend the vast majorityof our energy focused on this level of the pyramid,trying to tackle things that are already completely adapted to human beings,that are going to be very very difficult to address —as we&#39;ve seen in the case of HIV.
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:所以在最近的15年里，我一直都在致力于，事实上是研究更早时期的联系这就是我所称的“病毒谈话者”，这是我的顾问唐.博克发明的一个用语。这个想法就是，我们可以研究这些病毒是怎么样感染人类，以及病毒携带者进入人体的过程，通过捕捉这一瞬间，我们或许可以追溯到发现病毒的早期。
en:So during the last 15 years,I&#39;ve been working to actually study the earlier interface here —what I&#39;ve labeled &quot;viral chatter,&quot; which was a term coinedby my mentor Don Burke.This is the idea that we can study the sort ofpinging of these viruses into human populations,the movement of these agents over into humans;and by capturing this moment,we might be able to move to a situation where we can catch them early.
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:好的，所以这是张照片，我现在要向你们展示一些这个领域的照片。这是中非捕猎者的一张照片其实是很普通的一张照片。我想让你们从照片中注意一件事情就是血，你可以看到有很多的血液接触。对我们来说这就是非常之关键。这是一个非常亲密的接触。所以如果我们要研究病毒谈话者，我们就需要找到和野生动物有密切接触的人群。
en:OK, so this is a picture, and I&#39;m going to show yousome pictures now from the field.This is a picture of a central African hunter.It&#39;s actually a fairly common picture.One of the things I want you to note from itis blood — that you see a tremendous amount of blood contact.This was absolutely key for us. This is avery intimate form of connection.So if we&#39;re going to study viral chatter, we need toget to these populations who have intensive contact with wild animals.
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:所以我们就一直在研究有类似这个人的情况的人。我们从他们身上和其他生物身上提取血样。我们对这些在动物和人身上所发生的疾病进行研究。理想的情况是，这可以让我们在早期就应控制住这个疾病因为这些疾病会传染到人类身上。此项工作最基本的目标不仅仅是从外部研究这些受感染的人，而是要在这些人群中建立数千个个体，这样我们就可以监控在日常的基础上持续的监控。当他们生病时，我们可以从他们身上提取血液样本。
en:And so we&#39;ve been studying people like this individual.We collect blood from them, other specimens.We look at the diseases, which are in the animals as well as the humans.And ideally, this is going to allow us to catch these thingsearly on, as they&#39;re moving over into human populations.And the basic objective of this work is not to justgo out once and look at these individuals,but to establish thousands of individualsin these populations that we would monitorcontinuously on a regular basis.When they were sick, we would collect specimens from them.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:我们可以将这些样本标做记号这些我们现在已经完成，在动物身上提取样本。我们给他们这些小的过滤纸片。当他们从动物身上提取样本时，可以将提取的血液放到滤纸上这就可以允许我们从特定的动物身上发现未知的病毒，这些动物实际上是已经被捕获的。
en:We would actually enlist them —which we&#39;ve done now — to collect specimens from animals.We give them these little pieces of filter paper.When they sample from animals,they collect the blood on the filter paperand this allows us to identify yet-unknown viruses from exactly the right animals —the ones that are actually being hunted.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:（视频）：叙事者：深在喀麦隆遥远地区，两个猎人正在跟踪他们的猎物。他们的名字是帕特里斯和帕蒂。他们正在寻找非洲野生动物也就是他们可以杀掉用来喂养自己家庭的森林动物。帕特里斯和帕蒂几乎每天都整装待发，外出打猎地点是在他们家周围的森林里。他们有一系列设计的圈套和陷阱为了就是捉住野猪、蛇、猴子、鼠类动物，以及任何他们能捕获的动物。帕特里斯和帕蒂已经外出几小时了，但是一无所获。动物很轻易的就逃跑了。
en:(Video) Narrator: Deep in a remote region of Cameroon,two hunters stalk their prey.Their names are Patrice and Patee.They&#39;re searching for bush meat;forest animals they can kill to feed their families.Patrice and Patee set out most days to go out huntingin the forest around their homes.They have a series of traps, of snares that they&#39;ve set upto catch wild pigs, snakes, monkeys,rodents — anything they can, really.Patrice and Patee have been out for hours but found nothing.The animals are simply gone.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:我们停下来喝了点水。然后在草丛里有窸窣的响声。一群猎人走近。他们的包裹里装满了不同的野味。至少带有三种病毒是你知道的，这些病毒存在于一种特殊的猴子身上。
en:We stop for a drink of water.Then there is a rustle in the brush.A group of hunters approach,their packs loaded with wild game.There&#39;s at least three virusesthat you know about, which are in this particular monkey.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:内森.沃尔夫：这个物种，是的。有很多很多病原体都存在于这些动物身上。这些人都处在一种特定的风险之中，尤其是如果人与动物之间有血液接触，那么人类就有传染的风险也有可能感染其他的病毒。
en:Nathan Wolfe: This species, yeah. And there&#39;s many many more pathogensthat are present in these animals.These individuals are at specific risk,particularly if there&#39;s blood contact, they&#39;re at risk for transmissionand possibly infection with novel viruses.
时间： 4:21
zh-cn:叙事者：当捕猎者展示他们的技巧时，一些令人吃惊的事情就发生了。他们向我们展示他们用来提取动物血液的滤纸。血液将用来检测动物传染性病毒，沃尔夫博士研究项目的一部分花了几年的时间才建立起来。
en:Narrator: As the hunters display their kills, something surprising happens.They show us filter paper they&#39;ve used to collect the animals&#39; blood.The blood will be tested for zoonotic viruses,part of a program Dr. Wolfe has spent years setting up.
时间： 4:34
zh-cn:内森.沃尔夫：所以就是从这里的这个动物开始的，也就是大斑鼻猴。每个人都有其中一张过滤纸，这些人至少，都接受过我们基本的健康教育知道与这些活动相关的风险，这可能从我们的观点来看，能给他们一种降低风险的能力，也可以降低对家庭的风险，以及村落、国家和世界的危险。
en:NW: So this is from this animal right here,Greater Spot-Nosed Guenon.Every person who has one of those filter papers has at least,at a minimum, been through our basic health educationabout the risks associated with these activities,which presumably, from our perspective,gives them the ability to decrease their own risk,and then obviously the risk to their families,the village, the country, and the world.
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:内森.沃尔夫：好，在我继续之前，我觉得很重要的是花些时间去讨论一下非洲野生动物肉。非洲野生动物肉就是捕获野味。是吧？你可以考虑多种不同的非洲野生动物肉。我要讨论的就是这个。当你的孩子、孙子和孙女整理出一些关于这段时期的问题来问你，其中有一件他们要问你的事情，是我们是怎样使这些动物变成自己最亲密的伙伴的，一些地球上最珍贵和濒临灭绝的种群将要灭绝，因为我们不能解决世界上这些地区的一些贫穷问题。
en:NW: OK, before I continue, I think it&#39;s important to take just a momentto talk about bush meat. Bush meat is the hunting of wild game.OK? And you can consider all sorts of different bush meat.I&#39;m going to be talking about this.When your children and grandchildrensort of pose questions to you about this period of time,one of the things they&#39;re gonna ask you,is how it was they we allowed some of our closest living relatives,some of the most valuable and endangered specieson our planet, to go extinct because weweren&#39;t able to address some of the issuesof poverty in these parts of the world.
时间： 5:25
zh-cn:但是事实上这不是他们要问你关于这个的唯一问题。他们要问你的问题是当我们知道这是艾滋病病毒进入人类的方式时，知道其他疾病也有可能会进入人体时，为什么我们要让这些行为继续？为什么我们没有找到其他的解决办法呢？他们会说，在那些世界上极其不稳定的地区人们非常贫穷，人口在不断的增长而且不会有像这可以继续利用的资源，这将会导致食品不安全
en:But in fact that&#39;s not the only question they&#39;re going to ask you about this.They&#39;re also going to ask you the questionthat when we knew that this was the way that HIV enteredinto the human population,and that other diseases had the potential to enter like this,why did we let these behaviors continue?Why did we not find some other solution to this?They&#39;re going to say, in regions of profoundinstability throughout the world,where you have intense poverty, where populations are growingand you don&#39;t have sustainable resources like this,this is going to lead to food insecurity.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:但是他们也可能会问你一个不同的问题。这是一个我认为我们都需要问自己的问题，那就是，为什么我们认为这些责任是这里所指的几个人的。现在这就是那个人，你可以看到就是那个右肩膀较高的那个这就是那个捕获猴子的人在我给你们看过的上一张照片上有他。好，现在来看一下他的衬衫。你知道的，看一下他的脸。非洲野生动物肉是主要风险之一，这种风险会马上在我们人类当中发生，会发生在地球的人类身上。但是这不是一些像这样人的错误。对吗？解决问题也不是他自己的责任。没有简单的解决方法，但是我要对你们说的是我们忽略了这个问题才导致危险发生在我们身上。
en:But they&#39;re also going to ask you probably a different question.It&#39;s one that I think we all need to ask ourselves,which is, why we thought the responsibility rested with this individual here.Now this is the individual — you can see just right up over his right shoulder —this is the individual that hunted the monkeyfrom the last picture that I showed you.OK, take a look at his shirt.You know, take a look at his face.Bush meat is one of the central crises,which is occurring in our population right now,in humanity, on this planet.But it can&#39;t be the fault of somebody like this.OK? And solving it cannot be his responsibility alone.There&#39;s no easy solutions,but what I&#39;m saying to you is that we neglect this problemat our own peril.
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:所以在1998年时，我和我的导师们唐.伯克以及上校麻破蒂-尼古乐，我们就开始在中非展开这项工作与捕猎者一起工作一起在世界上的这个地方工作而我的工作，在那时我只是个博士后而已，我也确实为了这个项目的开展费尽心机。所以我对自己说，“好吧，很好我们要收集所以种群的标本。我们要去不同的地方。这将是很不错的。”你知道，我看了一下地图，我挑选了17个地点，我想，没有问题。笑声
en:So, in 1998, along with my mentorsDon Burke and Colonel Mpoudi-Ngole,we went to actually start this workin Central Africa, to work with huntersin this part of the world.And my job — at that time I was a post-doctoral fellow,and I was really tasked with setting this up.So I said to myself, &quot;OK, great —we&#39;re gonna collect all kinds of specimens. We&#39;re gonna go to all thesedifferent locations. It&#39;s going to be wonderful.&quot;You know, I looked at the map; I picked out 17 sites;I figured, no problem.(Laughter)
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:不用说，我大错特错了。这是一项有挑战性的工作幸运的是，我以前拥有，以后也会继续拥有一支同事和合作者的完美团队，这也是开展这项工作的唯一办法。对此项工作，我们要面临很多挑战。
en:Needless to say, I was drastically wrong.This is challenging work to do.Fortunately, I had and continue to havean absolutely wonderful team of colleagues and collaborators in my own team,and that&#39;s the only way that this work can really occur.We have a whole range of challenges about this work.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:其中的一个就是要取得我们与之工作的人们的信任。你看到在你右手边的那个人是保罗.德朗.米奴图。他是我曾经接触过最好的沟通者之一。当我到那里时，我不会说法语，但是我似乎明白他在说什么保罗已经在喀麦隆国家电台和电视工作好几年，他谈论的是健康问题。他是一个健康方面的记者。®所以我们就想要请这个人，这样当我们到喀麦隆的时候，他将会是一个很不错的交流者。当我们到达这些村落的时候，我们却发现没有人有电视机，所以他们根本不认识他。但是当他开始说话时他们就能知道这是电台里的声音。这里有些人有着不可置信的能力来传播我们的信息，不论是野生动物保护还是健康疾病预防。
en:One of them is just obtaining trustfrom individuals that we work with in the field.The person you see on the right hand side is Paul DeLong-Minutu.He&#39;s one of the best communicators that I&#39;ve really ever dealt with.When I arrived I didn&#39;t speak a word of French,and I still seemed to understand what it was he was saying.Paul worked for yearson the Cameroonian national radio and television,and he spoke about health issues. He was a health correspondent.So we figured we&#39;d hire this person — when we got there he couldbe a great communicator.When we would get to these rural villages, though, what we found outis that no one had television,so they wouldn&#39;t recognize his face.But — when he began to speakthey would actually recognize his voice from the radio.And this was somebody who had incrediblepotential to spread aspects of our message,whether it be with regards to wildlife conservationor health prevention.
时间： 8:06
zh-cn:我们经常会遇到麻烦。这是我们从其中的一个村落里回来，带着200个人的血液样本我们需要将这些标本在48小时之内送回实验室。我想给大家展示一下，这是阿布德.他莫夫，他是我们喀麦隆实验基地的主要调查者。当我给他看这张照片时，他还朝我大笑当然你看不到他的脸。但是我想展示这张照片的原因就是因为你可以看到他要解决这个问题。笑声这个，这个就是他做的。这个就是他做的。就在照之前和照之后的很快的时间里。这是我们以前的实验室。这是现在的样子。早些时候，为了海运我们的标本，我们不得不用干冰。为了得到干冰，我们不得不去酿酒厂，祈求他们借给我们干冰，甚至去偷干冰。现在我们已经有我们自己的液体氮了。我喜欢将我们的实验室称作中非最冷的地方，或许它是吧。这是我的照片，这是照相之前的我。笑声无可奉告。
en:Often we run into obstacles. This is us coming back fromone of these very rural sites,with specimens from 200 individualsthat we needed to get back to the lab within 48 hours.I like to show this shot — this isUbald Tamoufe, who&#39;s the leadinvestigator in our Cameroon site.Ubald laughs at me when I show this photobecause of course you can&#39;t see his face.But the reason I like to show the shotis because you can see that he&#39;s about to solve this problem.(Laughter)Which — which he did, which he did.Just a few quick before and after shots.This was our laboratory before.This is what it looks like now.Early on, in order to ship our specimens,we had to have dry ice. To get dry ice we had to goto the breweries — beg, borrow, steal to get these folks to give it to us.Now we have our own liquid nitrogen.I like to call our laboratory the coldest place in Central Africa — it might be.And here&#39;s a shot of me, this is the before shot of me.(Laughter)No comment.
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:那么发生什么了？在这10年里，我们一直在做的就是这项工作，我们实际给我们自己很多惊喜。我们做了很多发现。我们的发现是，如果你看对了，你就可以监控这些病毒向人类传播的流动过程。这给了我们很大的希望。我们已经发现的是这些人身上一系列的新型病毒，包括和HIV病毒同种类型的新病毒所以是全新的反转录病毒。让我们来看一下，任何存在于人类身上的反转录病毒，就是我们应该意识到的事情。这是我们应该密切关注的事情。这不是我们应该感到惊讶的事情。
en:So what happened? So during the 10 years that we&#39;ve been doingthis work, we actually surprised ourselves.We made a number of discoveries.And what we&#39;ve found is that if you look in the right place,you can actually monitor the flowof these viruses into human populations.That gave us a tremendous amount of hope.What we&#39;ve found is a whole range of new viruses in these individuals,including new viruses in the same groupas HIV — so, brand new retroviruses.And let&#39;s face it, any new retrovirus in thehuman population — it&#39;s something we should be aware of.It&#39;s something we should be following. It&#39;s not somethingthat we should be surprised by.
时间： 9:36
zh-cn:不用说在过去侵入这些村落社区的病毒可能已经销声匿迹了。事情已经不是这样子了。伐木道路建设给这些村落提供了进城的的机会。发生在中非的事情不会永远在中非。所以一旦我们发现如果真有这种可能我们可以做此监控的话就决定从这项研究继续进行下去，真正的将全世界的努力融合到一起。通过人们大量的支持和与谷歌公司，史科尔基金会科学的合作，我们就可以开始进行全球病毒预防行动然后开始在非洲和亚洲的四个不同的地点开始工作。不用说，世界不同地方的不同人群都有不同程度的接触。所以不仅仅是中非的捕猎人。这也可以在活动物市场进行，这些市场就是亚洲SARS病毒出现的那个地方。但是这就是我们目标的开始。
en:Needless to say in the pastthese viruses entering into these rural communitiesmight very well have gone extinct.That&#39;s no longer the case. Logging roads provide access to urban areas.And critically, what happens in central Africadoesn&#39;t stay in Central Africa.So, once we discovered that it was really possiblethat we could actually do this monitoring,we decided to move this from research, toreally attempt to phase up to a global monitoring effort.Through generous support and partnershipscientifically with Google.org and the Skoll Foundation,we were able to start the Global Viral Forecasting Initiativeand begin work in four different sitesin Africa and Asia.Needless to say, different populations from different parts of the worldhave different sorts of contact.So it&#39;s not just hunters in Central Africa.It&#39;s also working in live animal markets —these wet markets — which is exactly the place whereSARS emerged in Asia.But really, this is just the beginning from our perspective.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:我们现在的目标，除了利用这些基地，并开始着手开始一切工作，就是找到新的合作者，因为我们感觉我们对病毒热点问题的努力需要进一步延伸到世界上大约20个或超过20个基地因为这个想法真的就可以建立起一张难以置信的巨大的网络，这样，理想上来说，我们就可以捕捉到这些信息，之后血液就可以转到血库，性网络，以及飞机上。这才是我们的目标。有不长的一段时间，我们发现了一种未知的生物这是一种让我们非常害怕的东西。它确实改变了我们看待自己的方式，让我们思考一下自己。
en:Our objective right now, in addition todeploying to these sites and getting everything moving,is to identify new partnersbecause we feel like this effort needs to be extendedto probably 20 or more sites throughout the world — to viral hotspots —because really the idea here is to cast an incredibly wide netso that we can catch these things, ideally,before they make it to blood banks,sexual networks, airplanes. And that&#39;s really our objective.There was a time not very long agowhen the discovery of unknown organismswas something that held incredible awe for us.It had potential to really change the way that we saw ourselves,and thought about ourselves.
时间：11:08
zh-cn:我觉得现在地球上的很多人都很绝望，他们认为我们已经达到了发现大多数东西的地步。我现在可以告诉你：请不要绝望。如果一个聪明的天外来客因在我们地球上编写生活的大百科全书而被收税的话，30卷中会有27卷讲述细菌和病毒，只有很少的几卷讲述植物，真菌和动物人类的内容只是补充说明而已这会是一个很有趣的脚注，但是仅此而已。老实说，这将是最令人兴奋的时代因为这是关于我们地球上未知生活方式的探索和研究。对于这种已经存在的占我们生活主导地位的事情我们几乎什么也不知道。最后我们有工具可以让我们真正的去探索世界认知世界。
en:Many people, I think, on our planet right nowdespair, and they thinkwe&#39;ve reached a point where we&#39;ve discovered most of the things.I&#39;m going tell you right now: please don&#39;t despair.If an intelligent extra-terrestrialwas taxed with writing the encyclopedia of life on our planet,27 out of 30 of these volumeswould be devoted to bacteria and virus,with just a few of the volumes leftfor plants, fungus and animals,humans being a footnote;interesting footnote but a footnote nonetheless.This is honestly the most exciting periodever for the study of unknown life forms on our planet.The dominant things that exist herewe know almost nothing about.And yet finally, we have the tools, which will allow us to actually explore that worldand understand them.
时间：11:57
zh-cn:非常感谢掌声
en:Thank you very much.(Applause)
