时间： 0:11
zh-cn:关于这部电影的制作，我想说的是——在听了这么多精彩的演讲后，比如迈克尔·莫成，和其他关于音乐的演讲，其背后有一条故事线索，正如音乐具有时代性，电影也有时代性，它是一种体验，是情绪上的。而在制作这部电影的过程中，我意识到过去所看到的很多纪录片，不是关于求知，就是很理性的思考。但我希望这部电影能跟着情绪走，真正跟随我的足迹。所以，不同于以往那种喋喋不休的纪录片，它由生活的一幕幕组成，讲述途中与我们邂逅的人们。他们在片子里只出现一次。没有回放，就像一部按时间顺序写成的游记。这就好像人生，一旦开始，就没办法回头。
en:One thing I wanted to say about film making is — about this film —in thinking about some of the wonderful talks we&#39;ve heard here,Michael Moschen, and some of the talks about music,this idea that there is a narrative line,and that music exists in time.A film also exists in time; it&#39;s an experiencethat you should go through emotionally.And in making this film I felt that so many of the documentaries I&#39;ve seenwere all about learning something,or knowledge, or driven by talking heads, and driven by ideas.And I wanted this film to be driven by emotions,and really to follow my journey.So instead of doing the talking head thing, instead it&#39;s composed of scenes,and we meet people along the way.We only meet them once.They don&#39;t come back several times, so it really chronicles a journey.It&#39;s something like life, that once you get in ityou can&#39;t get out.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:我想给你们看两个片段，第一个是个大杂烩，它包含三个，四个小片段，其中的三个人今晚也在场。他们是碰巧出现在影片中的，因为他们有更重要的事。但他们一唱一和，非常完美。最后是我父亲——路易的一个片段，他讲述了对他来说很重要的东西，那就是生活中的意外。他认为生命中最伟大的事都是出于意外的，从来不是计划好的。三个短片之后是孟加拉国达卡城内那栋大楼的场景，在我看来那是他最伟大的作品。他在那里建造了一座首都。我相信你们会喜欢这个建筑的，它从未被曝光过。它一直以来只出现在照片中，从未有摄像团队对它进行过拍摄。我们是第一个在那里的摄像团队。
en:There are two clips I want to show you,the first one is a kind of hodgepodge,its just three little moments, four little momentswith three of the people who are here tonight.It&#39;s not the way they occur in the film,because they are part of much larger scenes.They play off each other in a wonderful way.And that ends with a little clip of my father, of Lou,talking about something that is very dear to him,which is the accidents of life.I think he felt that the greatest things in life were accidental,and perhaps not planned at all.And those three clips will be followed by a scene ofperhaps what, to me, is really his greatest buildingwhich is a building in Dhaka, Bangladesh.He built the capital over there.And I think you&#39;ll enjoy this building, it&#39;s never been seen —it&#39;s been still photographed, but never photographed by a film crew.We were the first film crew in there.
时间： 1:51
zh-cn:你将看到这座令人叹为观止的建筑。当你看到它的时候，请记住它是完全用工人的双手建起来的。他们最后一年才启用起重机。它是工人们在竹制脚手架上，头顶一桶桶混凝土，用双手建成的。那是这个国家的首都，历经23年才建造完成，之后便成为当地人的骄傲，它和泰姬陵花费了一样长的时间。但可惜的是，路易未能亲眼看到它完成。他于1974年去世。大楼于1983年竣工。工程在他去世之后又进行了好多年。当你看到这大楼的时候，想像一下我们为它倾尽毕生的心血，却不能目睹它的完成。
en:So you&#39;ll see images of this remarkable building.A couple of things to keep in mind when you see it,it was built entirely by hand,I think they got a crane the last year.It was built entirely by hand off bamboo scaffolding,people carrying these baskets of concrete on their heads,dumping them in the forms.It is the capital of the country,and it took 23 years to build,which is something they seem to be very proud of over there.It took as long as the Taj Mahal.Unfortunately it took so long that Lou never saw it finished.He died in 1974.The building was finished in 1983.So it continued on for many yearsafter he died.Think about that when you see that building,that sometimes the things we strive for so hard in life we never get to see finished.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:最触动我的是我父亲的那种信仰，以他特有的方式去投入这些事，相信最后可以取得成就。即使在孟加拉和巴基斯坦陷入战争时，工程不得不暂停，但他还是坚持他的工作，因为他相信，“战争会结束，他们会需要这座建筑。“接下来就是我要为大家展现的两个片段。开始吧。（观众鼓掌）
en:And that really struck me about my father,in the sense that he had such beliefthat somehow, doing these thingsgiving in the way that he gave, that something good would come out of it,even in the middle of a war, there was a war with Pakistan at one point,and the construction stopped totally and he kept working,because he felt, &quot;Well when the war is donethey&#39;ll need this building.&quot;So, those are the two clips I&#39;m going to show.Roll that tape.(Applause)
时间： 3:13
zh-cn:理查德·索尔·沃尔曼：我记得在宾夕法尼亚大学听他讲课。回到家后我对父母说，”我刚刚遇到一个人，看起来无所事事，其貌不扬，声音古怪，他是我们的老师。你们也许从未听说过他，但请记住这一天，终有一天他会出名的，因为他真的是一个令人惊叹的人。&quot;
en:Richard Saul Wurman: I remember hearing him talk at Penn.And I came home and I said to my father and mother,&quot;I just met this man: doesn&#39;t have much work,and he&#39;s sort of ugly, funny voice,and he&#39;s a teacher at school.I know you&#39;ve never heard of him, but just mark this daythat someday you will hear of him,because he&#39;s really an amazing man.&quot;
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:弗兰克·盖里：我听说他和英格丽·褒曼有过一段艳遇，是真的么？
en:Frank Gehry: I heard he had some kind of a fling with Ingrid Bergman. Is that true?
时间： 3:43
zh-cn:纳撒尼尔·康恩：如果那是真的，那么他很幸运。
en:Nathaniel Kahn: If he did he was a very lucky man.
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:康恩：你真的听说了？
en:NK: Did you hear that, really?
时间： 3:48
zh-cn:盖里：是的，当他在罗马的时候。
en:FG: Yeah, when he was in Rome.
时间： 3:51
zh-cn:摩西·萨夫迪：他是个真正的浪子。我在他的办公室第一次认识他，他可能刚刚旅行回来，也许就会在办公室里连续呆两三天，然后打包再出发。他会在办公室里和我们一起工作直到3点，而他骨子里是个浪子。这很有悲剧色彩，就如同他在火车站的死亡一样，他的生活就是这样，你明白么？我经常想像自已死在飞机上，或者是机场，或者在慢跑的时候死去，连确认身份的方法都没有。不知什么原因，从他去世之后我一直有这样的念头。他是个彻头彻尾的浪子。
en:Moshe Safdie: He was a real nomad.And you know, when I knew him when I was in the office,he would come in from a trip, and he would be in the officefor two or three days intensely, and he would pack up and go.You know he&#39;d be in the office till three in the morning working with usand there was this kind of sense of the nomad in him.I mean as tragic as his death was in a railway station,it was so consistent with his life, you know?I mean I often think I&#39;m going to die in a plane,or I&#39;m going to die in an airport,or die jogging without an identification on me.I don&#39;t know why I sort of carry thatfrom that memory of the way he died.But he was a sort of a nomad at heart.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:路易·康恩：人生充满意外，并且受到周围的影响。
en:Louis Kahn: How accidental our existences are reallyand how full of influence by circumstance.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:路人：我们早上总是过来这边散步，城市很美，环境很好，这是孟加拉国最美的地方。我们很自豪。
en:Man: We are the morning workers who come, all the time, hereand enjoy the walking, city&#39;s beauty and the atmosphereand this is the nicest place of Bangladesh.We are proud of it.
时间： 6:10
zh-cn:康恩：你们感到自豪？
en:NK: You&#39;re proud of it?
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:路人：是的，这是孟加拉国的标志。
en:Man: Yes, it is the national image of Bangladesh.
时间： 6:15
zh-cn:康恩：你知道这个建筑师么？
en:NK: Do you know anything about the architect?
时间： 6:18
zh-cn:路人：建筑师？我听说过他。
en:Man: Architect? I&#39;ve heard about him; he&#39;s a top-ranking architect.
时间： 6:25
zh-cn:康恩：其实我是他的儿子，他是我父亲。
en:NK: Well actually I&#39;m here because I&#39;m the architect&#39;s son,he was my father.
时间： 6:30
zh-cn:路人：哦！你父亲是路易·法拉康恩？
en:Man: Oh! Dad is Louis Farrakhan?
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:康恩：恩。不是路易·法拉康恩，是路易·康恩。
en:NK: Yeah. No not Louis Farrakhan, Louis Kahn.
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:路人：路易·康恩，是的！
en:Man: Louis Kahn, yes!
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:路人：你父亲还健在么？
en:Man: Your father, is he alive?
时间： 6:42
zh-cn:康恩：他去世已有25年了。
en:NK: No, he&#39;s been dead for 25 years.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:路人：欢迎你回来。
en:Man: Very pleased to welcome you back.
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:康恩：谢谢。
en:NK: Thank you.
时间： 7:29
zh-cn:康恩：他未能看到它竣工，他没有看到。
en:NK: He never saw it finished, Pop.No, he never saw this.
时间： 7:56
zh-cn:沙姆斯·维尔斯：在我们这样的国家搞建设几乎是不可能的。50年以前这里除了稻田什么都没有，而自从我们邀请他到来之后，他就感到身负重任。他想要成为这里的摩西，他要给我们带来民主。他并不是政客，但他却通过自己的方式给我们带来了民主，从此我们站起来了。这十分重要。他并不在乎这个国家是多么穷困，也不在乎他能否完成这座大楼，但他最终做到了，他完成了它，在这个国家。这是他最伟大的项目，在这个世上最穷的国家。
en:Shamsul Wares: It was almost impossible, building for a country like ours.In 30, 50 years back, it was nothing, only paddy fields,and since we invited him here,he felt that he has got a responsibility.He wanted to be a Moses here, he gave us democracy.He is not a political man,but in this guise he has given usthe institution for democracy, from where we can rise.In that way it is so relevant.He didn&#39;t care for how much money this country has,or whether he would be able to ever finish this building,but somehow he has been able to do it, build it, here.And this is the largest project he has got in here, the poorest country in the world.
时间： 8:36
zh-cn:康恩：他为此献出生命。
en:NK: It cost him his life.
时间： 8:38
zh-cn:维尔斯：是的，他为此付出生命。这正是他的伟大之处，我们也会为此铭记他。但他毕竟是个凡人，牺牲了他的家庭。此于伟人，无可避免。但我相信他的儿子能够理解，而不至于去怨恨，或感到被忽略。他的关爱与众不同，这需要时间才能理解。在社交上，他就像的小孩，并不成熟。他从不能说“不”，也正因如此，我们今天才有了这座建筑。只有这样，你才能够去理解他。没有捷径可走，没有其他方法去理解他。他给了我们这座建筑，我们一直很感激他，他给了我们爱。他可能无法给你足够的父爱，但为我们，他给了我们全心全意的关爱，这很重要。你必须明白。他相当博爱，他爱每一个人。而为了爱每个人，他有时候却忽略了最亲近的人，这是像他这样的人所无法避免的。
en:SW: Yeah, he paid. He paid his life for this,and that is why he is great and we&#39;ll remember him.But he was also human.Now his failure to satisfy the family life,is an inevitable association of great people.But I think his son will understand this,and will have no sense of grudge,or sense of being neglected, I think.He cared in a very different manner,but it takes a lot of time to understand that.In social aspect of his lifehe was just like a child, he was not at all matured.He could not say no to anything,and that is why, that he cannot say no to things,we got this building today.You see, only that way you can be able to understand him.There is no other shortcut,no other way to really understand him.But I think he has given us this buildingand we feel all the time for him,that&#39;s why, he has given love for us.He could not probably give the right kind of love for you,but for us, he has given the people the right kind of love,that is important.You have to understand that.He had an enormous amount of love,he loved everybody.To love everybody, he sometimes did not seethe very closest ones,and that is inevitable for men of his stature.
时间：10:14
zh-cn:(观众鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
