时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这个美好的故事开始于四十年前，我的父母来到加拿大。我母亲离开了肯尼亚内罗毕。我父亲离开了印度阿姆利则市外的一个小村庄。他们二十世纪60年代来到这里。他们在多伦多以东不远一个幽静的郊区住了下来。他们开始了一段新生活。他们第一次看了牙医，第一次吃到汉堡包，第一次有了自己的儿女。我和我妹妹在这里长大，我们的童年恬静而美满。我们的家庭很融洽，有许多好友，生活的街区很安静。我们在成长的过程中忽略了许多我们父母年轻时无法忽视的事情－譬如，我们家的电从来没断过，学校就在街对面，街的尽头就是医院，在家后院就能买到冰棒。我们慢慢长大了，我上了高中，毕了业，离开了家，找到一份工作，遇到了心仪的女孩，成家立业－我感觉这就像是一部拙劣的幽默剧或凯特·斯蒂文斯的歌（英国歌手，后皈依伊斯兰教）。
en:So the Awesome story:It begins about 40 years ago,when my mom and my dad came to Canada.My mom left Nairobi, Kenya.My dad left a small village outside of Amritsar, India.And they got here in the late 1960s.They settled in a shady suburb about an hour east of Toronto,and they settled into a new life.They saw their first dentist,they ate their first hamburger,and they had their first kids.My sister and Igrew up here,and we had quiet, happy childhoods.We had close family,good friends, a quiet street.We grew up taking for granteda lot of the things that my parents couldn&#39;t take for grantedwhen they grew up —things like power always onin our houses,things like schools across the streetand hospitals down the roadand popsicles in the backyard.We grew up, and we grew older.I went to high school.I graduated.I moved out of the house, I got a job,I found a girl, I settled down —and I realize it sounds like a bad sitcom or a Cat Stevens&#39; song —
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:（众人笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:但还是生活非常美满的。非常美满。2006年意义不同寻常。在安大略葡萄酒产区的晴空之下，我结婚了，150多位亲友到场庆贺。2007年也不平凡。我从大学毕业了，我和两位最亲密的朋友结伴旅行。这是我和朋友克里斯，我们站在太平洋海岸边上。我们从车窗里看到了海豹，于是停下车跟它们合影，结果，我们俩的大头把它们都挡住了。（众人笑）所以你们都看不到它们，当时我们都激动万分，说实话。
en:but life was pretty good.Life was pretty good.2006 was a great year.Under clear blue skies in July in the wine region of Ontario,I got married,surrounded by 150 family and friends.2007 was a great year.I graduated from school,and I went on a road trip with two of my closest friends.Here&#39;s a picture of me and my friend, Chris,on the coast of the Pacific Ocean.We actually saw seals out of our car window,and we pulled over to take a quick picture of themand then blocked them with our giant heads.(Laughter)So you can&#39;t actually see them,but it was breathtaking,believe me.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:（众人笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:2008年和2009年，生活开始不太如意了。我知道，并不是只有我的生活不如意，有些人的境遇更糟。首先，新闻报道让人忧心忡忡。现在的情况也是如此，每当你翻开报纸，打开电视，你会看到冰盖在消融，世界各地战争不断，地震，飓风，某国的经济正处在崩溃的边缘，后来真的崩溃了，我们中许多人失去了家园，失去了工作，无法安享晚年，失去了生计。2008，2009年我过得不顺利还有另一个原因。当时，我遇到了不少个人的问题。我的婚姻出现了危机，我和妻子之间越来越疏远。一天我妻子下班回到家，鼓起了勇气，泪流满面，和我开诚布公地进行了谈话。她说：“我已经不爱你了。”那是我经历过的最痛苦的事，也是我听到过的最令人心碎的话。在这之后，仅过了一个月，我又得知了一个更令我痛心的消息。
en:2008 and 2009 were a little tougher.I know that they were tougher for a lot of people,not just me.First of all, the news was so heavy.It&#39;s still heavy now, and it was heavy before that,but when you flipped open a newspaper, when you turned on the TV,it was about ice caps melting,wars going on around the world,earthquakes, hurricanesand an economy that was wobbling on the brink of collapse,and then eventually did collapse,and so many of us losing our homes,or our jobs,or our retirements,or our livelihoods.2008, 2009 were heavy years for me for another reason, too.I was going through a lot of personal problems at the time.My marriage wasn&#39;t going well,and we just were growing further and further apart.One day my wife came home from workand summoned the courage, through a lot of tears,to have a very honest conversation.And she said, &quot;I don&#39;t love you anymore,&quot;and it was one of the most painful things I&#39;d ever heardand certainly the most heartbreaking thing I&#39;d ever heard,until only a month later,when I heard something even more heartbreaking.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:我的至友克里斯，就是刚才照片上的那位，他患了精神上的疾病，苦苦挣扎了一段时间。在场若有人曾经患过精神方面的疾病，你就能体会其中的痛苦。我在周日晚十点半跟他通了电话，谈论了一下那天晚上看的电视节目，而就在第二天早上，我发现他失踪了。非常不幸的是，他结束了自己的生命。那段时间是如此难熬。
en:My friend Chris, who I just showed you a picture of,had been battling mental illness for some time.And for those of youwhose lives have been touched by mental illness,you know how challenging it can be.I spoke to him on the phone at 10:30 p.m.on a Sunday night.We talked about the TV show we watched that evening.And Monday morning, I found out that he disappeared.Very sadly, he took his own life.And it was a really heavy time.
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:我的头顶愁云密布，我竭尽全力也无法振作起来。我告诉自己，我真的需要让自己把注意力转移到积极面上。一天晚上，我下班回到家，打开电脑，我建立了一个小网站，将其命名为1000awesomethings.com (1000个美妙时刻)。我想要提醒自己，生活中有许多人人都喜爱的，简单而随处可见的小快乐，我们只是很少谈起这些快乐－譬如，那些主动为你免费续杯的餐馆服务员们，在一个婚礼上，你坐的那一桌可以首先去选餐，穿上刚从烘干机里拿出来、还热乎的内衣，或者你在超市正好碰上刚上工的收银员开了一条新的付款通道，你现在排第一了—本来你排在最后一个，现在马上冲过去。
en:And as these dark clouds were circling me,and I was finding it really, really difficultto think of anything good,I said to myself that I really needed a wayto focus on the positive somehow.So I came home from work one night,and I logged onto the computer,and I started up a tiny websitecalled 1000awesomethings.com.I was trying to remind myselfof the simple, universal, little pleasures that we all love,but we just don&#39;t talk about enough —things like waiters and waitresseswho bring you free refills without asking,being the first table to get called upto the dinner buffet at a wedding,wearing warm underwear from just out of the dryer,or when cashiers open up a new check-out lane at the grocery storeand you get to be first in line —even if you were last at the other line, swoop right in there.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:（众人笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:36
zh-cn:慢慢地，我的心情开始好转。你看，每天新增的博客有五万个。我的博客就是这五万分之一。除了我母亲，没人读它。当然了，我母亲把博客地址转发给我父亲以后我的点击量翻了一翻。（众人笑）当点击量到了几十次，我开始兴奋了。当点击量超过了五十次又到了几百次，接着到几千次，一直到了几百万次。数字一直在增大。最后我接到了一个电话，电话那头的声音告诉我：“您刚刚获得了最佳博客奖。”我当时觉得这听起来太假了。（众人笑）（众人鼓掌）你想让我把所有存款转到哪个非洲国家的账户上啊？（众人笑）结果，我跳上了飞机，走上了红地毯，莎拉·斯尔福曼，吉米·法伦和玛莎.·斯图尔特（美国名人）相伴左右。我走上颁奖台，接受了Webby威比奖的最佳博客奖。那份惊喜那种喜悦直到我回到多伦多查看邮件时才有所收敛，十位文稿代理人给我发邮件，等着跟我商讨把博文整理成书的事情。一转眼到了下一年，《美妙之书》现已连续二十周成为最畅销书了。
en:And slowly over time,I started putting myself in a better mood.I mean, 50,000 blogsare started a day,and so my blog was just one of those 50,000.And nobody read it except for my mom.Although I should say that my traffic did skyrocketand go up by 100 percentwhen she forwarded it to my dad.(Laughter)And then I got excitedwhen it started getting tens of hits,and then I started getting excited when it started getting dozensand then hundreds and then thousandsand then millions.It started getting bigger and bigger and bigger.And then I got a phone call,and the voice at the other end of the line said,&quot;You&#39;ve just won the Best Blog In the World award.&quot;I was like, that sounds totally fake.(Laughter)(Applause)Which African country do you want me to wire all my money to?(Laughter)But it turns out, I jumped on a plane,and I ended up walking a red carpetbetween Sarah Silverman and Jimmy Fallon and Martha Stewart.And I went onstage to accept a Webby award for Best Blog.And the surpriseand just the amazement of thatwas only overshadowed by my return to Toronto,when, in my inbox,10 literary agents were waiting for meto talk about putting this into a book.Flash-forward to the next yearand &quot;The Book of Awesome&quot; has now beennumber one on the bestseller list for 20 straight weeks.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:（众人鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 6:17
zh-cn:但是，今天我想告诉大家三件事。我想给你们讲这个美妙的故事，跟你们分享三个A打头的开心秘诀，最后给大家来个总结。先来谈谈这三个A吧。过去的几年里，我没有太多时间实实在在地去思考。而最近，我有机会坐下来问我自己：在过去几年里究竟是什么帮助我经营我的网站，并让自己更成熟？我总结了其中的原因，对于我个人而言，那就是这三个A。它们是态度（attitude），知觉（awareness），和本真（authenticity）。我想简短地逐个介绍一下。
en:But look, I said I wanted to do three things with you today.I said I wanted to tell you the Awesome story,I wanted to share with you the three As of Awesome,and I wanted to leave you with a closing thought.So let&#39;s talk about those three As.Over the last few years,I haven&#39;t had that much time to really think.But lately I have had the opportunity to take a step backand ask myself: &quot;What is it over the last few yearsthat helped me grow my website,but also grow myself?&quot;And I&#39;ve summarized those things, for me personally,as three As.They are Attitude, Awarenessand Authenticity.I&#39;d love to just talk about each one briefly.
时间： 6:54
zh-cn:态度（attitude）：我们每个人总有不顺利的时候，也都栽过跟头，没有人能预测未来，但是有一件事是肯定的，那就是“天有不测风云”。我们都快乐过，精彩过，得意过，在毕业典礼上灿烂一笑，在婚礼上父女共舞的时刻，以及健康的宝贝婴儿在产房里大声啼哭，然而，在这些快乐的时刻之间，难免穿插着一些令人不快的插曲。这些事情很伤感，令人不愿启齿，但是，你的丈夫可能会离你而去，你的女友可能会背叛你，你的头疼可能比想象中严重，你的狗可能会在大街上被车撞死。这些想法很扫兴，你的孩子有可能会加入帮派，或者做坏事。你的母亲肯能会患上癌症，你的父亲可能很暴力。在你的生活中总有那么几次，你会觉得自己陷入了绝境，万念俱灰，心如刀绞。当让那噩耗给你当头一棒，那痛苦蔓延全身，我真心希望你能意识到你有两种选择。一是，你可以破罐破摔，自怨自艾，永远消沉下去，第二，你可以伤心，然后重新振作，直面未来。保持正确的态度就要选择第二项，不管这个选择多么困难，不管你心里承受了多少痛苦，你都要选择向前看，继续生活，一小步一小步地向未来迈进。
en:So Attitude:Look, we&#39;re all going to get lumps,and we&#39;re all going to get bumps.None of us can predict the future, but we do know one thing about itand that&#39;s that it ain&#39;t gonna go according to plan.We will all have high highsand big days and proud momentsof smiles on graduation stages,father-daughter dances at weddingsand healthy babies screeching in the delivery room,but between those high highs,we may also have some lumps and some bumps too.It&#39;s sad, and it&#39;s not pleasant to talk about,but your husband might leave you,your girlfriend could cheat,your headaches might be more serious than you thought,or your dog could get hit by a car on the street.It&#39;s not a happy thought,but your kids could get mixed up in gangsor bad scenes.Your mom could get cancer,your dad could get mean.And there are times in lifewhen you will be tossed in the well, too,with twists in your stomach and with holes in your heart,and when that bad news washes over you,and when that pain sponges and soaks in,I just really hope you feellike you&#39;ve always got two choices.One, you can swirl and twirland gloom and doom forever,or two, you can grieveand then face the futurewith newly sober eyes.Having a great attitude is about choosing option number two,and choosing, no matter how difficult it is,no matter what pain hits you,choosing to move forward and move onand take baby steps into the future.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:第二个A是知觉(awareness)。我喜欢和三岁的孩子玩。我很欣赏他们眼中的世界，在他们眼中的是一片崭新的世界。我喜欢他们看着一只小虫爬上人行道时专注的表情。喜欢他们第一次看棒球比赛时如痴如醉盯着球场的神态，眼睛睁得大大的，手上还带着个棒球手套，在棒球的击打声，花生的嘎崩作响，以及热狗的香味中，自得其乐。我喜欢看他们在后院里采蒲公英，一采就是几个小时，然后把蒲公英做成感恩节晚餐餐桌上的中心装饰。我欣赏他们眼中的世界，因为在他们眼里，世界是崭新的。拥有知觉就是拥抱内心中三岁的你。因为你们都曾是三岁的孩子，那个三岁的小男孩，依然在你心里。那个三岁的小女孩，依然在你心里。他们在你的心里。去感知就是去记住你眼中的世界也曾是崭新的。你也曾经第一次下班后，走运碰到一路绿灯。你也曾经第一次经过敞开门的面包店，闻到里面飘出来的香味儿，你也曾经从旧外套口袋里掏出一张20元纸币，说：“有钱啦。”
en:The second &quot;A&quot; is Awareness.I love hanging out with three year-olds.I love the way that they see the world,because they&#39;re seeing the world for the first time.I love the way that they can stare at a bug crossing the sidewalk.I love the way that they&#39;ll stare slack-jawedat their first baseball gamewith wide eyes and a mitt on their hand,soaking in the crack of the bat and the crunch of the peanutsand the smell of the hotdogs.I love the way that they&#39;ll spend hours picking dandelions in the backyardand putting them into a nice centerpiecefor Thanksgiving dinner.I love the way that they see the world,because they&#39;re seeing the worldfor the first time.Having a sense of awarenessis just about embracing your inner three year-old.Because you all used to be three years old.That three-year-old boy is still part of you.That three-year-old girl is still part of you.They&#39;re in there.And being aware is just about rememberingthat you saw everything you&#39;ve seenfor the first time once, too.So there was a time when it was your first time everhitting a string of green lights on the way home from work.There was the first time you walked by the open door of a bakeryand smelt the bakery air,or the first time you pulled a 20-dollar bill out of your old jacket pocketand said, &quot;Found money.&quot;
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:最后一个A是本真（authenticity）。对于本真，我有一个小故事跟大家讲。故事要追溯到1932年，在佐治亚州的一片花生田上，一个名叫罗斯福·格里尔的男孩降生了。罗斯福·格里尔，人称罗西·格里尔，长大成人后成为了身高一米九六，体重一百三十六公斤的美国橄榄球联盟中后卫。这张照片上的76号就是他。他们四人就是著名的“所向披靡的四猛将”。他们在二十世纪六十年代效力于洛杉矶公羊队，这支球队令人闻风丧胆。这些彪悍的球员热衷于在球场上撞击对手的脑袋，让对手肩膀脱臼。然而这样的罗西·格里尔却有着另一个嗜好。在他的内心深处，他热爱刺绣。热爱针织。这刺绣能让他冷静，放松，让他忘记坐飞机时的恐惧还能帮他泡妞。这可是他说的。他太喜欢刺绣了，从联盟退役以后，他开始参加针织俱乐部。他还出了一本书，书名叫作《罗西·格里尔男式刺绣》（众人笑）（鼓掌）这封面非常棒。仔细看你会发现，他绣的是自己的脸。
en:The last &quot;A&quot; is Authenticity.And for this one, I want to tell you a quick story.Let&#39;s go all the way back to 1932when, on a peanut farm in Georgia,a little baby boy named Roosevelt Grier was born.Roosevelt Grier, or Rosey Grier, as people used to call him,grew up and grew intoa 300-pound, six-foot-five linebacker in the NFL.He&#39;s number 76 in the picture.Here he is pictured with the &quot;fearsome foursome.&quot;These were four guys on the L.A. Rams in the 1960syou did not want to go up against.They were tough football players doing what they love,which was crushing skullsand separating shoulders on the football field.But Rosey Grier also hadanother passion.In his deeply authentic self,he also loved needlepoint. (Laughter)He loved knitting.He said that it calmed him down, it relaxed him,it took away his fear of flying and helped him meet chicks.That&#39;s what he said.I mean, he loved it so much that, after he retired from the NFL,he started joining clubs.And he even put out a bookcalled &quot;Rosey Grier&#39;s Needlepoint for Men.&quot;(Laughter)(Applause)It&#39;s a great cover.If you notice, he&#39;s actually needlepointing his own face.
时间：11:03
zh-cn:（众人笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:05
zh-cn:我很喜欢这个故事是因为罗西·格里尔是个敢于流露真性情的人。这就是本真的意义所在。心安理得地做最真实的自己。我想，当你真实地做自己，你就会顺着自己的心意，不论在什么场合，与谁对话你都会享受其中滋味。你会遇见跟自己合得来的人。你会去到自己做梦都想去的地方。你顺着自己的心意，最后感觉非常满足。这就是三个A。
en:And so what I love about this storyis that Rosey Grieris just such an authentic person,and that&#39;s what authenticity is all about.It&#39;s just about being you and being cool with that.And I think when you&#39;re authentic,you end up following your heart,and you put yourself in placesand situations and in conversationsthat you love and that you enjoy.You meet people that you like talking to.You go places you&#39;ve dreamt about.And you end you end up following your heartand feeling very fulfilled.So those are the three A&#39;s.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:最后的总结，我想带你们回顾我父母来到加拿大的那段时光。我不知道那是种什么样的感觉，二十五六岁的光景，初来乍到一个陌生的国度。我不知道，因为我从未经历过。但我能想象，那肯定要求你有个很好的生活态度。我可以想象，在这个崭新的世界里，你必须感知周围的事物，欣赏那些给你惊喜的新鲜事物。我想你必须展现自己的本色，做真实的自己，才能应对新的生活。
en:For the closing thought, I want to take you all the way backto my parents coming to Canada.I don&#39;t know what it would feel likecoming to a new country when you&#39;re in your mid-20s.I don&#39;t know, because I never did it,but I would imagine that it would take a great attitude.I would imagine that you&#39;d have to be pretty aware of your surroundingsand appreciating the small wondersthat you&#39;re starting to see in your new world.And I think you&#39;d have to be really authentic,you&#39;d have to be really true to yourselfin order to get through what you&#39;re being exposed to.
时间：12:10
zh-cn:我想把我的TED演讲暂停10秒钟，因为人这一辈子没几次这样的机会了，我的父母就坐在第一排。如果他们不介意，我想请他们起立。我想向你们两位表示感谢。
en:I&#39;d like to pause my TEDTalkfor about 10 seconds right now,because you don&#39;t get many opportunities in life to do something like this,and my parents are sitting in the front row.So I wanted to ask them to, if they don&#39;t mind, stand up.And I just wanted to say thank you to you guys.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:（众人鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：12:41
zh-cn:我小时候，我父亲很喜欢跟我讲他第一天来到加拿大的故事。这个故事很有意思，因为他刚从多伦多机场下了飞机，迎接他的是一个非营利性组织，我敢肯定在座的某位就是这个组织的领导。（众人笑）这个组织为所有加拿大新移民备了欢迎午宴。我父亲说，他下了飞机，参加了这个午宴，那里长长的餐桌上摆满了美食。有面包，切碎的酱黄瓜，橄榄，白洋葱，冷切火鸡肉卷，冷切火腿卷，冷切牛肉卷，奶酪块，金枪鱼沙拉三明治，鸡蛋沙拉三明治，三文鱼沙拉三明治，肉酱炖面，砂锅什锦，布朗尼蛋糕，奶油蛋挞，还有很多馅饼，各种口味都有。我父亲讲起这个故事的时候，他总说：“最有意思的是，那些食物我从来没有见过，除了面包。”（众人笑）“我不知道什么是肉，什么是素食主义者；我就着橄榄吃馅饼。”（众人笑）“我真不敢相信在这里你能得到这么多东西。”
en:When I was growing up, my dad used to love telling the storyof his first day in Canada.And it&#39;s a great story, because what happened washe got off the plane at the Toronto airport,and he was welcomed by a non-profit group,which I&#39;m sure someone in this room runs.(Laughter)And this non-profit group had a big welcoming lunchfor all the new immigrants to Canada.And my dad says he got off the plane and he went to this lunchand there was this huge spread.There was bread, there was those little, mini dill pickles,there was olives, those little white onions.There was rolled up turkey cold cuts,rolled up ham cold cuts, rolled up roast beef cold cutsand little cubes of cheese.There was tuna salad sandwiches and egg salad sandwichesand salmon salad sandwiches.There was lasagna, there was casseroles,there was brownies, there was butter tarts,and there was pies, lots and lots of pies.And when my dad tells the story, he says,&quot;The craziest thing was, I&#39;d never seen any of that before, except bread.(Laughter)I didn&#39;t know what was meat, what was vegetarian.I was eating olives with pie.(Laughter)I just couldn&#39;t believe how many things you can get here.&quot;
时间：13:51
zh-cn:（众人笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间：13:53
zh-cn:我五岁的时候，我父亲带我去超市。他会惊奇地盯着各种水果和蔬菜的标签。他会说：“瞧，你相信吗，这个芒果是墨西哥来的。这个苹果是从南非来的。你相信吗，他们居然还有摩洛哥来的椰枣！”他会问：“你知道摩洛哥在哪里吗？”我会说： “我才五岁，我连我现在在哪儿都不知道。这里是A&amp;P市场吗？”他会说：“我也不知道摩洛哥在哪里，我们回去查查。”于是，我们买下了椰枣，回到家里。我们打开书架上的地图册，翻遍整本书也要把这个神秘的国度找到。我们找到了，我父亲会说：“你相信吗，某个人在那里爬上一棵树，摘下这个枣子，把它放到卡车上，一直送到码头，把它装上船，接着它横跨了大西洋，被装到另一辆卡车上，人们把车一直开到我们家门外的这间小超市里。最后他们以25美分的价钱出售这个枣子。”我会说：“我不信。”他会说：“我也不相信。生活真是太奇妙了，充满了令人惊喜的事情。”
en:When I was five years old,my dad used to take me grocery shopping,and he would stare in wonderat the little stickers that are on the fruits and vegetables.He would say, &quot;Look, can you believe they have a mango here from Mexico?They&#39;ve got an apple here from South Africa.Can you believe they&#39;ve got a date from Morocco?&quot;He&#39;s like, &quot;Do you know where Morocco even is?&quot;And I&#39;d say, &quot;I&#39;m five. I don&#39;t even know where I am.Is this A&amp;P?&quot;And he&#39;d say, &quot;I don&#39;t know where Morocco is either, but let&#39;s find out.&quot;And so we&#39;d buy the date, and we&#39;d go home.And we&#39;d actually take an atlas off the shelf,and we&#39;d flip through until we found this mysterious country.And when we did, my dad would say,&quot;Can you believe someone climbed a tree over there,picked this thing off it, put it in a truck,drove it all the way to the docksand then sailed it all the wayacross the Atlantic Oceanand then put it in another truckand drove that all the way to a tiny grocery store just outside our house,so they could sell it to us for 25 cents?&quot;And I&#39;d say, &quot;I don&#39;t believe that.&quot;And he&#39;s like, &quot;I don&#39;t believe it either.Things are amazing. There&#39;s just so many things to be happy about.&quot;
时间：14:58
zh-cn:我回过头想想，父亲是对的；生活中充满了令人惊喜的事。我们所知的全宇宙唯一一个拥有生命的大石头上，我们是唯一有能力体验这些事情的物种。只有我们人类，拥有建筑业和农业，财富和民主，飞机和高速公路，室内设计和占星术，时尚杂志和狂欢会。你可以和怪兽一起看恐怖电影。你可以去听演唱会，听吉他即兴演奏。我们还有书本，自助餐，广播，新娘，还有过山车。你可以睡在干净的床单上，可以去看电影并找到好位置，可以闻到烤面包的香味，可以冒雨散步，吹泡泡糖，或者偷偷打个盹儿。
en:When I stop to think about it, he&#39;s absolutely right.There are so many things to be happy about.We are the only specieson the only life-giving rockin the entire universe that we&#39;ve ever seen,capable of experiencingso many of these things.I mean, we&#39;re the only ones with architecture and agriculture.We&#39;re the only ones with jewelry and democracy.We&#39;ve got airplanes, highway lanes,interior design and horoscope signs.We&#39;ve got fashion magazines, house party scenes.You can watch a horror movie with monsters.You can go to a concert and hear guitars jamming.We&#39;ve got books, buffets and radio waves,wedding brides and rollercoaster rides.You can sleep in clean sheets.You can go to the movies and get good seats.You can smell bakery air, walk around with rain hair,pop bubble wrap or take an illegal nap.
时间：15:48
zh-cn:我们都可以做到，但是，我们只有一百年的时间去享受生活。这挺令人伤感的。超市里的收银员，工厂的领工，你回家时，高速公路上一直跟在你车后的人，晚饭时给你打电话的推销员，教过你的每一位老师，在你枕边醒来的每一个人，每个国家的每一位政治家，每部电影里的每一位演员，你家里的每一个成员，你所爱的每一个人，在座的每一个人，包括你自己，都会在百年以后离开人世。生命之所以伟大，是因为我们仅有如此短暂的时间去体味那些细小而又美妙无比的时刻。那美妙的瞬间就是现在，那些时刻正在溜走，它们一直一直一直在飞逝。
en:We&#39;ve got all that,but we&#39;ve only got 100 years to enjoy it.And that&#39;s the sad part.The cashiers at your grocery store,the foreman at your plant,the guy tailgating you home on the highway,the telemarketer calling you during dinner,every teacher you&#39;ve ever had,everyone that&#39;s ever woken up beside you,every politician in every country,every actor in every movie,every single person in your family, everyone you love,everyone in this room and youwill be dead in a hundred years.Life is so great that we only get such a short timeto experience and enjoyall those tiny little moments that make it so sweet.And that moment is right now,and those moments are counting down,and those moments are always, always, always fleeting.
时间：16:45
zh-cn:你永远不会比现在的自己更年轻。因此，我相信，如果你拥有良好的生活态度，无论生活如何打击你你都能抬起头继续前行，感知你周遭的世界，承认内心中三岁的自己意识到让生活美好的那些小小的快乐，做真实的自己，心安理得地做你自己，顺从自己的心意，让自己置身于能让你快乐的事情中，最后，你的生活将会变得充实而美满，你的生活才真正变得美妙而精彩。
en:You will never be as young as you are right now.And that&#39;s why I believe that if you live your lifewith a great attitude,choosing to move forward and move onwhenever life deals you a blow,living with a sense of awareness of the world around you,embracing your inner three year-oldand seeing the tiny joys that make life so sweetand being authentic to yourself,being you and being cool with that,letting your heart lead you and putting yourself in experiences that satisfy you,then I think you&#39;ll live a lifethat is rich and is satisfying,and I think you&#39;ll live a life that is truly awesome.
时间：17:20
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
