时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们这个会谈论的是关于数字革命的事情但是我想说，那场革命已经结束了。我们成为了赢家我们已经经历了一场数字革命，现已不再继续需要了我希望可以看到更远的未来去关注数字革命之后会发生些什么好，接下来我就把我的设想告诉大家我在麻省理工参与了几个项目都是希望评估计算机革命之后会发生什么
en:This meeting has really been about a digital revolution,but I&#39;d like to argue that it&#39;s done; we won.We&#39;ve had a digital revolution but we don&#39;t need to keep having it.And I&#39;d like to look after that,to look what comes after the digital revolution.So, let me start projecting forward.These are some projects I&#39;m involved in today at MIT,looking what comes after computers.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:这里的第一个，“因特网零”，它是一个网络服务器其成本与复杂度跟一个RFID标签一样只是一美金，也就是说，它可以融入到每一个灯泡乃至门扣上并且这样的东西的商业化步伐也变得越来越快最有趣的不是其成本而是它对互联网的那种编码方式用的是一种类似于摩尔斯码的东西来为互联网进行编码你可以通过光学或声学的方式进行传播例如通过电线或无线电它利用的是互联网最早期的原理即计算机之间实现相互链接现在则是使得装置之间相互链接我们可以将这一开启互联网时代的途径应用到“互联网零”这一物理层面上也就是应用在物联网上
en:This first one, Internet Zero, up here — this is a web serverthat has the cost and complexity of an RFID tag —about a dollar — that can go in every light bulb and doorknob,and this is getting commercialized very quickly.And what&#39;s interesting about it isn&#39;t the cost;it&#39;s the way it encodes the Internet.It uses a kind of a Morse code for the Internetso you could send it optically; you can communicate acousticallythrough a power line, through RF.It takes the original principle of the Internet,which is inter-networking computers,and now lets devices inter-network.That we can take the whole idea that gave birth to the Internetand bring it down to the physical world in this Internet Zero,this internet of devices.
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:这也就是从那里到这里的下一步今天已经有人在进行商业化的运作之后就是可替换的计算机在经济学里，可替换的商品是那些可以延伸与交易的产品也就是说，半斤的谷物只值半斤的价钱但是，半个婴孩或半台电脑则远远不如一个完整的婴孩或完整的电脑来得有用我们正在努力使得电脑往那个方向发展你看到后面那个是一个原型来的它来自一个叫 Bill Butow的学生，他现在在因特尔他在想，为什么我们一定要制造越来越大的芯片而不是制造小的芯片？然后将其放到黏性的介质里而后使得计算机按磅或按平方英寸生产出来？这就是作品的展示左边是由传统计算机所生产出来的PostScript右边那个是由我们的第一台原型机器印刷出来的我们只是生产材料——没有帧缓存器和输入输出处理器那一类的东西都没有不像这里的点都是很均匀的排布的这是一种原始的材料材料数量加倍，显现出来的东西也会加倍假如有颗子弹穿过它的中心，也没有什么事假如需要更多的资源，只要添加计算机即可
en:So this is the next step from there to here,and this is getting commercialized today.A step after that is a project on fungible computers.Fungible goods in economics can be extended and traded.So, half as much grain is half as much useful,but half a baby or half a computer is less useful thana whole baby or a whole computer,and we&#39;ve been trying to make computers that work that way.So, what you see in the background is a prototype.This was from a thesis of a student, Bill Butow, now at Intel,who wondered why, instead of making bigger and bigger chips,you don&#39;t make small chips, put them in a viscous medium,and pour out computing by the pound or by the square inch.And that&#39;s what you see here.On the left was postscript being rendered by a conventional computer;on the right is postscript being rendered from the first prototypewe made, but there&#39;s no frame buffer, IO processor,any of that stuff — it&#39;s just this material.Unlike this screen where the dots are placed carefully,this is a raw material.If you add twice as much of it, you have twice as much display.If you shoot a gun through the middle, nothing happens.If you need more resource, you just apply more computer.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:那也是这以后的一步，即原材料的计算这些都还是传统的数字，这一步之后——这是早期的一个原型这是高速影片被减慢我们还可以将化学与计算结合起来，这时候，比特也可以成为泡沫这是生产比特的过程，这是一个展示大家看看这个慢镜头比特相互作用产生逻辑，而后扩散又汇聚我们现在可以通过计算来使得输出按照一定的规则来对材料进行排列也可以对信息进行排列。这是一些介绍我早期一些项目的幻灯片。这里的比特就以量子的方式存储在原子核里程序使得分子的原子核结构发生改变所有这些都在实验室里不断的在推进不是比喻，而是真的把比特跟原子结合在一起了这些研究使我们得到以下的结论：
en:So, that&#39;s the step after this — of computing as a raw material.That&#39;s still conventional bits, the step after that is —this is an earlier prototype in the lab;this is high-speed video slowed down.Now, integrating chemistry in computation, where the bits are bubbles.This is showing making bits, this is showing —once again, slowed down so you can see it,bits interacting to do logic and multiplexing and de-multiplexing.So, now we can compute that the output arranges materialas well as information. And, ultimately, these are some slidesfrom an early project I did, computing where the bits are storedquantum-mechanically in the nuclei of atoms, soprograms rearrange the nuclear structure of molecules.All of these are in the lab pushing further and further and further,not as metaphor but literally integrating bits and atoms,and they lead to the following recognition.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:我们都经历了一场数字革命。但那究竟是什么呢？香浓在20世纪40年代的时候就已经把我们从这里带到了这里从一个随着路途增加而信号不断减弱的电话线到今天的互联网他同时也提出和证明了第一个至关重要的理论那个理论是说，假如你不断的增加信息，并且以信号的形式输出那么你可以在一个不完美的装置上进行完美的计算这也是我们发明互联网的方法冯·诺依曼在50年代的时候，也做了同样的事情他说，你可以有一台不可靠的电脑，但是你可以将其状态恢复到完美这也是MIT的最后一台大型模拟计算机用的是微分分析器运行次数越多，其准确度越低
en:We all know we&#39;ve had a digital revolution, but what is that?Well, Shannon took us, in the &#39;40s, from here to here:from a telephone being a speaker wire that degraded with distanceto the Internet. And he proved the first threshold theorem, that showsif you add information and remove it to a signal,you can compute perfectly with an imperfect device.And that&#39;s when we got the Internet.Von Neumann, in the &#39;50s, did the same thing for computing;he showed you can have an unreliable computer but restore its stateto make it perfect. This was the last great analog computer at MIT:a differential analyzer, and the more you ran it,the worse the answer got.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:冯·诺依曼之后，我们有了奔腾，其第十亿个晶体管跟第一个晶体管同样可靠但我们所有的制造都是在这个左下方那里完成的一个一流的飞机制造厂，它会通过旋转将金属铸成一定的形状或者是将塑料融解。一个100亿的芯片作坊它所用的是乡村工匠也认得的方法——就是把材料铺放 在那里，而后加热这个系统是不具智能的材料本身不含信息昨天我们听到了分子生物学的故事从根本来说，那就是通过计算去建造也是一个信息处理的系统我们在通讯以及计算方面已经完成了一场数字革命但是同样的理念，同样的数学——香农和冯·诺依曼都曾这么做——却还没有在现实的物理世界中出现。我受到这一个想法所鼓舞我跟比特原子研究中心的同事一道那是一群像我这样的人他们永远也不会理会物理科学与计算机科学之间的界限我甚至会认为计算机科学是最糟糕的一门科学，不管对于计算机还是对于科学来说都是如此（笑声）因为计算机科学的那些经典基本上都是围绕1950年代那时候的技术展开的一直没有改变——当然，有少量的经典是好的。但我们不得不承认，自然是力量更大的计算机
en:After Von Neumann, we have the Pentium, where the billionth transistoris as reliable as the first one.But all our fabrication is down in this lower left corner.A state-of-the-art airplane factory rotating metal wax at fixed metal,or you maybe melt some plastic. A 10-billion-dollar chip fabuses a process a village artisan would recognize —you spread stuff around and bake it.All the intelligence is external to the system;the materials don&#39;t have information.Yesterday you heard about molecular biology,which fundamentally computes to build.It&#39;s an information processing system.We&#39;ve had digital revolutions in communication and computation,but precisely the same idea, precisely the same mathShannon and Von Neuman did, hasn&#39;t yet come outto the physical world. So, inspired by that,colleagues in this program — the Center for Bits and Atomsat MIT — which is a group of people, like me,who never understood the boundary between physical scienceand computer science. I would even go further and saycomputer science is one of the worst things that ever happenedto either computers or to science —(Laughter)— because the canon — computer science —many of them are great but the canon of computer scienceprematurely froze a model of computationbased on technology that was available in 1950,and nature&#39;s a much more powerful computer than that.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:你明天就可以听到来自索尔·格里菲斯的演讲。他是最初从这一项目中充分展现了自己才华的学生我们于是就想，如何才能实现通过计算来制造呢？这是他制作的一个东西，旨在证明他的想法是可行的用的是一些方块，相互间有磁力，你可以写一段代码跟蛋白质折叠类似，这样可以准确的定义出其结构没有计量数字材料自身会完成结构的构建跟蛋白质构建一样，也就是说，你也可以做出这样的东西你还可以做其他事情。这是2D的展示。在3D那里也同样可行。右上方的那个视频，这里就不播放了展现的是自我复制以及模板之构建一直下去，我们现在已经做到了实现九个数量级的折叠我们用这一实验来展示通过DNA复制产生有机体的可靠性它们也能通过肽键激活纳米束都是通过编程完成的就如磁铁一样，不过这是在纳米级上还有是激光微对准机器，事实上就是 可以实现数字制造的3D印刷机甚至可以做出房子来不是从图纸开始而是让部件自身去完成房子的编码与构建
en:So, you&#39;ll hear, tomorrow, from Saul Griffith. He was one of thefirst students to emerge from this program.We started to figure out how you can compute to fabricate.This was just a proof of principle he did of tilesthat interact magnetically, where you write a code,much like protein folding, that specifies their structure.So, there&#39;s no feedback to a tool metrology;the material itself codes for its structure in just the same waysthat protein are fabricated. So, you can, for example, do that.You can do other things. That&#39;s in 2D. It works in 3D.The video on the upper right — I won&#39;t show for time —shows self-replication, templating so something can make somethingthat can make something, and we&#39;re doing that now over, maybe,nine orders of magnitude. Those ideas have been used to showthe best fidelity and direct rate DNA to make an organism,in functionalizing nanoclusters with peptide tailsthat code for their assembly — so, much like the magnets,but now on nanometer scales.Laser micro-machining: essentially 3D printers that digitally fabricatefunctional systems, all the way up to building buildings,not by having blueprints,but having the parts code for the structure of the building.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:这些就是我们实验室里的一些新兴科技的展示都是走向数字制造，计算机不再是工具的控制而是成为了工具本身，程序的输出不单可以调整原子，也可以调整比特的结构我们是用纳税人的钱来做这个事情的，这里也谢谢大家——我买下了所有这些机器。我们向国家科学基金会提出了一个简明的申请，我们希望可以制造出任意尺寸的任意东西因为你不能将数字制造局限于某一领域或某个尺寸于是，我们买来了聚焦纳米束切割机超声波水压切割机以及微对准系统
en:So, these are early examples in the lab of emerging technologiesto digitize fabrication. Computers that don&#39;t control toolsbut computers that are tools, where the output of a programrearranges atoms as well as bits.Now, to do that — with your tax dollars, thank you —I bought all these machines. We made a modest proposalto the NSF. We wanted to be able to make anything on any length scale,all in one place, because you can&#39;t segregate digital fabricationby a discipline or a length scale.So we put together focused nano beam writersand supersonic water jet cutters and excimer micro-machining systems.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:但问题来了。当我们把这些机器都买来之后，我花去了太多的时间来教学生怎么用这些机器后来我开了一门课叫““如何制造几乎任何东西”。我们不是希望特意的作秀一开始仅仅是给几个研究生开的但课程的第一天是这个样子的几百个学生都缠着我们说，我这些年就是在等待这一课啊我可以为这堂课付出任何东西后来教务处问我，你要不就在全校开这课？似乎对学生蛮有帮助的另外一个（笑声）让人感到吃惊的事情是，这些学生都不是要搞研究的他们选这门课是希望学会做东西他们基本没有传统的技术背景到了学期结束的时候，他们可以融合自身的一些技能
en:But I had a problem. Once I had all these machines,I was spending too much time teaching students to use them.So I started teaching a class, modestly called,&quot;How To Make Almost Anything.&quot; And that wasn&#39;t meant to be provocative;it was just for a few research students.But the first day of class looked like this.You know, hundreds of people came in begging,all my life I&#39;ve been waiting for this class; I&#39;ll do anything to do it.Then they&#39;d ask, can you teach it at MIT? It seems too useful?And then the next —(Laughter)— surprising thing was they weren&#39;t there to do research.They were there because they wanted to make stuff.They had no conventional technical background.At the end of a semester they integrated their skills.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:现在大家可以看一个视频。Kelly是一个雕塑师，这是她做的学期作品
en:I&#39;ll show an old video. Kelly was a sculptor, and this is what she didwith her semester project.
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:大家好，我叫Kelly，这是我制作的尖叫宝贝你是否曾有过这样的经历你很想大叫，但是周边环境不允许，也许你在工作或者你在学校，或者你在看孩子或者是在其他一些不能大叫的地方好，我要介绍的这个尖叫宝贝就是一个便携的尖叫装置用户在宝贝里尖叫的时候，他们的尖叫会被消声同时也会被录制下来，你可以选择任意的时间地点和方式去释放这些尖叫声（尖叫）（笑声）（掌声）
en:(Video): Kelly: Hi, I&#39;m Kelly and this is my scream buddy.Do you ever find yourself in a situationwhere you really have to scream, but you can&#39;t because you&#39;re at work,or you&#39;re in a classroom, or you&#39;re watching your children,or you&#39;re in any number of situations where it&#39;s just not permitted?Well, scream buddy is a portable space for screaming.When a user screams into scream buddy, their scream is silenced.It is also recorded for later release where, when and howthe user chooses.(Scream)(Laughter) (Applause)
时间： 8:29
zh-cn:爱因斯坦也会爱上这玩意的学生们还为鹦鹉制作了一个浏览器使得鹦鹉可以上网，并且与其他鹦鹉进行交流这是一个学生制作的闹钟，你必须要跟它玩摔跤才能证明你睡醒了这是一条可以保护你的私人空间的裙子这不是旨在促进交流的科技而是相反这是一种帮助你看到自己谱写的音乐的装置这个学生制造出了一台可以制造机器的机器他是通过对Lego积木进行编程来完成的这门课开了好几年，我最后意识到学生们展示的是他们制作的最厉害的个性化创作的东西这些产品的市场就是他们自己假如这些东西在沃尔马可以买到，你就不需要自行生产了但因为你自身需要，所以你就创造出来了Ken Olsen曾说过，没有人会把电脑放到家里的但很显然，没有人会用家里的电脑来进行发明或记账你不需要在家里搞个工厂生产电脑因为在市场上很容易可以买到你拥有它，是因为你渴求一种独特的东西，不单单是个性化今天有两千万美金是用于这方面的20年后，我们可以制造出星际旅行的仿制品，使得我们可以制造任意想要的东西我的学生则直接“盗用”了我买来的机器来搞个人制造
en:So, Einstein would like this.This student made a web browser for parrots —lets parrots surf the Net and talk to other parrots.This student&#39;s made an alarm clock you wrestleto prove you&#39;re awake; this is one that defends —a dress that defends your personal space.This isn&#39;t technology for communication;it&#39;s technology to prevent it.This is a device that lets you see your music.This is a student who made a machine that makes machines,and he made it by making Lego bricks that do the computing.Just year after year — and I finally realizedthe students were showing the killer app of personal fabricationis products for a market of one person.You don&#39;t need this for what you can get in Wal-Mart;you need this for what makes you unique.Ken Olsen famously said, nobody needs a computer in the home.But you don&#39;t use it for inventory and payroll;DEC is now twice bankrupt. You don&#39;t need personal fabricationin the home to buy what you can buy because you can buy it.You need it for what makes you unique, just like personalization.So, with that, in turn, 20 million dollars today does this;20 years from now we&#39;ll make Star Trek replicators that make anything.The students hijacked all the machines I bought to do personal fabrication.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:今天，假如你要花那么多钱的话因为那是政府的钱，并且他们要求我们进行项目推广换言之，把课程开到地方学校去，做出一个网站，等等。但那些都不是很爽于是我就跟国家自然基金会的项目经理达成一致我说，我们不会直接说这个项目如何如何，但我们承诺把工具开放出去那不是什么带煽动性质的言辞但我们还是把这些FabLab建了起来。在设备方面投入了2万美金整个项目的2千万美金的使用也是类似的办法有一台激光切割机，可以将2D的东西成型为3D的东西符号切割机，还有一个微测量器一个数字监控的制表机还有一些价格低于一美元的编程工具100纳米秒的微控制器，从微米到更大的计量单位都可以这些正在全世界迅速埋蔓延这样的项目是没有预先安排好的，但它依然从波士顿到印度 Pobal 到加纳海滩上的 Secondi-Takoradi到南非小镇 Soshanguve到挪威北部，都在重新唤起我们对数字鸿沟的关注在所有这些地方，我们都能找到弃置的电脑在乡村里的农民，他的孩子渴望测量和改变世界而仅仅是从屏幕上获得信息事实上是制造与工具的鸿沟它比数字鸿沟更大解决办法并非IT下乡，而是IT发展的技术下乡
en:Today, when you spend that much of your money,there&#39;s a government requirement to do outreach, which often meansclasses at a local school, a website — stuff that&#39;s just not that exciting.So, I made a deal with my NSF program managers thatinstead of talking about it, I&#39;d give people the tools.This wasn&#39;t meant to be provocative or important,but we put together these Fab Labs. It&#39;s about 20,000 dollars in equipmentthat approximate both what the 20 million dollars does and where it&#39;s going.A laser cutter to do press-fit assembly with 3D from 2D,a sign cutter to plot in copper to do electromagnetics,a micron scale,numerically-controlled milling machine for precise structures,programming tools for less than a dollar,100-nanosecond microcontrollers. It lets you work from micronsand microseconds on up, and they exploded around the world.This wasn&#39;t scheduled, but they went from inner-city Bostonto Pobal in India, to Secondi-Takoradi on Ghana&#39;s coastto Soshanguve in a township in South Africa,to the far north of Norway, uncovering, or helping uncover,for all the attention to the digital divide,we would find unused computers in all these places.A farmer in a rural village — a kid needs to measure and modifythe world, not just get information about it on a screen.That there&#39;s really a fabrication and an instrumentation dividebigger than the digital divide.And the way you close it is not IT for the masses but IT development for the masses.
时间：10:51
zh-cn:我们在一个又一个地方看到了同样的进程——我们在一些事前根本没有想到的地方兴建了一些Fab Lab——现在想起来还会觉得很疯狂我们是被当地人的热情所打动而过去的因为随着Fab Lab之兴建，随之而来的是一种赋权你可以从他们的脸上看到那种喜悦这是在波士顿城区一个女孩她完成了一个按需定制的绣花设计从那样简单的产品到一些需要动手的技术教育这些都在Fab Lab发生。我们在加纳开了一个实验室我们设计了一个网络传感器，孩子会来到实验室并且不愿离开有个女孩还坚持让我们留到深夜我喜欢Fab Lab那是她第一次来 Fab Lab，她要做一个感应器就趴在工作台上，学习怎么做怎么编程，因为在此之前她根本就不知道自己在做什么或为何要做这些但她内心告诉她这就是她该做的，似乎是有一种神力那时候已经是到了晚上11点了我想我是唯一看到她的作品而且感到惊讶的 人并且她的作品真的可以用我把这个给大公司的工程师看他们说做不来。事实是，女孩做的任何一样东西，他们都可以做得更好但是他们是需要很多人来做，分布在很多不同的地区也不能以一下午之内做出来像这个女孩那样我名字叫瓦伦娣娜·科菲，今年8岁我做了一个平面板也纯粹是为了娱乐
en:So, in place after placewe saw this same progression: that we&#39;d open one of these Fab Labs,where we didn&#39;t — this is too crazy to think of.We didn&#39;t think this up, that we would get pulled to these places;we&#39;d open it. The first step was just empowerment.You can see it in their face, just this joy of, I can do it.This is a girl in inner-city Boston who had just done a high-techon-demand craft sale in the inner city community center.It goes on from there to serious hands-on technical educationinformally, out of schools. In Ghana we had set up one of these labs.We designed a network sensor, and kids would show upand refuse to leave the lab.There was a girl who insisted we stay late at night —(Video): Kids: I love the Fab Lab.— her first night in the lab because she was going to make the sensor.So she insisted on fabbing the board, learning how to stuff it,learning how to program it. She didn&#39;t really knowwhat she was doing or why she was doing it, but she knewshe just had to do it. There was something electric about it.This is late at, you know, 11 o&#39;clock at nightand I think I was the only person surprised when what she builtworked the first time.And I&#39;ve shown this to engineers at big companies, and they saythey can&#39;t do this. Any one thing she&#39;s doing, they can do better,but it&#39;s distributed over many people and many sitesand they can&#39;t do in an afternoonwhat this little girl in rural Ghana is doing.(Video): Girl: My name is Valentina Kofi; I am eight years old.I made a stacking board.And, again, that was just for the joy of it.
时间：12:29
zh-cn:后来这些实验室还做一些实际的解决问题的实践如为印度的农业生产设计工具为加纳的能源转换项目设计汽轮机为瘦客户机设计高接收效率的天线随后，由此产生的商业也获得成长比如这样的制造天线的商业最后，实验室也开始搞发明我们从他们那里学到的比我们给予他们的还要多我把自己的孩子带到这样的Fab Lab，让他看那东西是怎么做的他们发明了一种方式，可以应用纸盒来制作工具包你在屏幕上看到，现在已经发展成一个企业了他们的设计比索尔在MIT设计的还要好现在MIT有三个学生在做研究尝试将这些8岁的孩子的作品进行规模化生产因为孩子的设计更加美丽这里出现的各种发明也在改变这些Fab Labs
en:Then these labs started doing serious problem solving —instrumentation for agriculture in India,steam turbines for energy conversion in Ghana,high-gain antennas in thin client computers.And then, in turn, businesses started to grow,like making these antennas.And finally, the lab started doing invention.We&#39;re learning more from them than we&#39;re giving them.I was showing my kids in a Fab Lab how to use it.They invented a way to do a construction kit out of a cardboard box —which, as you see up there, that&#39;s becoming a business —but their design was better than Saul&#39;s design at MIT,so there&#39;s now three students at MIT doing their theses onscaling the work of eight-year-old childrenbecause they had better designs.Real invention is happening in these labs.
时间：13:08
zh-cn:去年，我跟一些国家、政府以及部落的首领在谈他们都想做这个我一直强调说，现在我们还看不到最成熟的东西再过20年，我们将会看到这些东西带来了深刻变化后来我也搞清楚了到底会发生什么。Kernigan 和 Ritchie 在一台PDP机器上发明了UNIX操作系统PDP是介乎大型机与微型机之间的一种机器那时候造价相当高昂，并且难以使用但是它把计算机带到了实验室我们今天所拥有的一切皆来源于那里现在这些Fab Lab的成本与复杂程度跟当年的PDP很像而数字制造本身并非就是未来。我们现在是在PDP的年代我们曾私下谈到了 那个时代的伟大发明那时候非常混乱，人们也不知道会发生些什么我们今天也是这样，我们活在数字制造的微型机年代这带来的唯一问题是它打破了人与人之间的壁垒
en:And I still kept — so, in the last year I&#39;ve been spending time withheads of state and generals and tribal chiefs who all want this,and I keep saying, but this isn&#39;t the real thing.Wait, like, 20 years and then we&#39;ll be done.And I finally got what&#39;s been going on. This is Kernigan and Ritchieinventing UNIX on a PDP.PDPs came between mainframes and minicomputers.They were tens of thousands of dollars, hard to use,but they brought computing down to work groups,and everything we do today happened there.These Fab Labs are the cost and complexity of a PDP.The projection of digital fabricationisn&#39;t a projection for the future; we are now in the PDP era.We talked in hushed tones about the great discoveries then.It was very chaotic, it wasn&#39;t, sort of, clear what was going on.In the same sense we are now, today, in the minicomputer eraof digital fabrication.The only problem with that is it breaks everybody&#39;s boundaries.
时间：13:55
zh-cn:我在华盛顿拜访了所有乐意商谈的机构在旧金山湾区，我去到了任何一个你能想象到的组织他们都想谈论这东西，但是这样一来会打破他们的组织边界。甚至从法律上来说是不允许的法律并不允许个人拥有制造东西的权力个人只能是消费者这个问题是如此严重以至于来自这一社区的最重要的发明给我带来了巨大的惊讶这一发明就是社会重构。在挪威北部的这个实验室那里离北极是如此近以至于天空上的卫星看上去似乎就在地平线上实验室走出了一开始创建时候的小房子一开始他们是希望可以在山上找到动物但是实验室发展相当迅速，他们最后是决定要建一条村子，专门为这一实验室服务这不是一所大学，也不是一家公司它本质上就是一个发明家的村庄，里面住的都是些很优秀的人这样的事情也发生在世界各地的Fab Lab那里
en:In DC, I go to every agency that wants to talk, you know;in the Bay Area, I go to every organization you can think of —they all want to talk about it, but it breakstheir organizational boundaries. In fact, it&#39;s illegal for them,in many cases, to equip ordinary people to createrather than consume technology.And that problem is so severe that the ultimate inventioncoming from this community surprised me:it&#39;s the social engineering. That the lab in far north of Norway —this is so far north its satellite dishes look at the groundrather than the sky because that&#39;s where the satellites are —the lab outgrew the little barn that it was in.It was there because they wanted to find animals in the mountainsbut it outgrew it, so they built this extraordinary village for the lab.This isn&#39;t a university; it&#39;s not a company. It&#39;s essentiallya village for invention; it&#39;s a village for the outliers in society,and those have been growing up around these Fab Labsall around the world.
时间：14:45
zh-cn:我们现在成立了一个NGO来做这个事情支持人们把项目做大，还有一个风投基金我们认为那些经营Fab Lab的人值得拿这个钱正如那些实验室里的机器需要不断的商业支持一样它是一种风投加微贷款的混合以此推广Fab Lab，最后让他们反哺MIT的研究催生出更多可能
en:So this program has split into an NGO foundation,a Fab Foundation to support the scaling, a micro VC fund.The person who runs it nicely describes it as&quot;machines that make machines need businesses that make businesses:&quot;it&#39;s a cross between micro-finance and VC to do fan-out,and then the research partnerships back at MIT for what&#39;smaking it possible.
时间：15:06
zh-cn:我希望总结两点我们看到了在经济援助这一领域发生了巨大的变化，从自上而下的巨型项目转变为自下而上的更为草根的，基于小额信贷的项目这样更能确保每个人都能得到满足他们真正需要的东西但我们在科技领域还是坚守了自上而下的原则计算、通信以及能源依然是掌握在少数公司里的大型项目假如这个房间里的脑袋足够聪明你们也能解决这些问题来自Fab Lab的信息是世界其他5亿人并不是科技的消费者他们也是生产者最大的机遇就在于捕捉世界的创造发明的能力让各地的人都能设计和生产出能够满足他们本地需要的产品我曾认为那是20年以后会发生的事情但我们今天已经看到了它的身影这样的发展打破了我们所能想象的各种组织边界现阶段最困难的是关于社会思维的革新以及组织的革新，但它正在发生
en:So I&#39;d like to leave you with two thoughts.There&#39;s been a sea change in aid, from top-down mega-projectsto bottom-up, grassroots, micro-finance investing in the roots,so that everybody&#39;s got that that&#39;s what works.But we still look at technology as top-down mega-projects.Computing, communication, energy for the rest of the planetare these top-down mega-projects.If this room full of heroes is just clever enough,you can solve the problems.The message coming from the Fab Labs is thatthe other five billion people on the planetaren&#39;t just technical sinks; they&#39;re sources.The real opportunity is to harness the inventive power of the worldto locally design and produce solutions to local problems.I thought that&#39;s the projection 20 years hence into the future,but it&#39;s where we are today.It breaks every organizational boundary we can think of.The hardest thing at this point is the social engineeringand the organizational engineering, but it&#39;s here today.
时间：15:58
zh-cn:最后，凡是关于计算技术之未来发展的演讲最后肯定会提到摩尔法则，这是我最喜欢的版本这是戈登·摩尔最开始的时候的图画我们看到，年复一年我们不断在增长、增长、增长增长、增长增长、增长但最后会遇到一个巨大的臭虫我们即将看到这个臭虫了但我们另一方面也即将迎来从2D到3D的革新从比特之编程到原子之编程将这个最终的臭虫变成了最终的功能我们正在这一数字制作革命的边上由程序计算出来的就是实物本身所以这两个项目加在一起回答了我的问题我并没有认真的问过这些问题。MIT的学生展现了一个面向发展中国家的杀手级应用即面向一个 人的市场：个人化的表达通过技术得以实现，这是我之前从未看到过的很久没有看到过了这一杀手级应用就是缩短数字制造之鸿沟，让人们可以在本地创造出解决自身问题的工具。谢谢大家。
en:And, finally, any talk like this on the future of computingis required to show Moore&#39;s law, but my favorite version —this is Gordon Moore&#39;s original one from his original paper —and what&#39;s happened is, year after year after year,we&#39;ve scaled and we&#39;ve scaled and we&#39;ve scaledand we&#39;ve scaled, and we&#39;ve scaled and we&#39;ve scaled,and we&#39;ve scaled and we&#39;ve scaled,and there&#39;s this looming bug of what&#39;s going to happenat the end of Moore&#39;s law; this ultimate bug is coming.But we&#39;re coming to appreciate, is the transition from 2D to 3D,from programming bits to programming atoms,turns the ends of Moore&#39;s law scaling from the ultimate bugto the ultimate feature.So, we&#39;re just at the edge of this digital revolution in fabrication,where the output of computation programs the physical world.So, together, these two projects answer questionsI hadn&#39;t asked carefully. The class at MIT shows the killer appfor personal fabrication in the developed worldis technology for a market of one: personal expression in technologythat touches a passion unlike anything I&#39;ve seen in technologyfor a very long time.And the killer app for the rest of the planet is the instrumentationand the fabrication divide: people locally developing solutionsto local problems. Thank you.
