时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这是一个正在崛起的非洲面临挑战的故事。
en:The narrative of a rising Africais being challenged.
时间： 0:15
zh-cn:大约在十年前，我做了一个关于非洲的演讲，讲了一个充满希望和机会的非洲，遍布企业家的非洲，一个与你通常所听闻的充斥着死亡、贫穷、疾病所大相径庭的非洲。而我当初演讲的内容，成为了如今这个众所周知的故事——正在崛起的非洲的一部分。
en:About 10 years ago,I spoke about an Africa,an Africa of hope and opportunity,an Africa of entrepreneurs,an Africa very different from the Africathat you normally hear aboutof death, poverty and disease.And that what I spoke about,became part of what is known nowas the narrative of the rising Africa.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:我想要告诉你两个关于这个振兴中的非洲的故事。第一个故事与卢旺达有关，一个经历了很多磨难的国度。而现在，它决定要成为一个技术中心或者说是非洲的技术中心。这个国家遍布山川和丘陵，和这里有点像，所以在这里，给人们提供服务是非常艰难的。那么卢旺达说了什么？为了拯救生命，卢旺达将与企业Zipline、美国UPS（全球最大的包裹递送公司）以及Gavi（全球疫苗免疫联盟）合作用无人机给那些生活在交通不便地区的人们输送抢救用药、疫苗和血液。这个举措将会拯救生命。这就是我们想要看到的，崛起中的非洲关于创新的其中一类。
en:I want to tell you two storiesabout this rising Africa.The first has to do with Rwanda,a country that has gonethrough many trials and tribulations.And Rwanda has decided to becomethe technology hub, or a technology hubon the continent.It&#39;s a country with mountainousand hilly terrain,a little bit like here,so it&#39;s very difficultto deliver services to people.So what has Rwanda said?In order to save lives,it&#39;s going to try using dronesto deliver lifesaving drugs,vaccines and bloodto people in hard-to-reach placesin partnership witha company called Zipline,with UPS, and also with the Gavi,a global vaccine alliance.In doing this, it will save lives.This is part of the type of innovationwe want to see in the rising Africa.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:第二个故事，和那些我相信你们大多数人都见过或者记得相关事情。非洲的国家常常遭受干旱和洪涝，而随着气候变化的影响，它们正发生得越发频繁。当灾难发生以后，这些国家通常等待国际呼吁来筹集资金。所以你会看到苍蝇围在孩子脸上的照片，死去动物尸体的照片等等。如今，这32个国家一起在非洲联盟的支持下决意组成一个叫做“非洲风险能力机构”的组织。它有什么作用呢？它是一家气象保险机构，这些国家每年缴纳自身资源约300万美元的保险费，因此，假使他们碰到了非常严重的干旱或洪涝，这些保险费就可以赔偿给他们，他们也就可以用这些钱去照顾他们的人民，而不是等待国际援助的到来。去年，非洲风险能力机构赔付了2600万美元给毛里塔尼亚、塞内加尔和尼日尔。这使他们有能力去照顾130万被干旱影响的人。他们能够恢复生计，购买喂牛的饲料，在学校里喂养孩子简而言之，保护了人们的家园，而不是迁出那个地区。
en:The second story has to do with somethingthat I&#39;m sure most of youhave seen or will remember.Very often, countries in Africasuffer drought and floods,and it&#39;s getting more frequentbecause of climate change effects.When this happens, they normally waitfor international appeals to raise money.You see pictures of childrenwith flies on their faces,carcasses of dead animals and so on.Now these countries,32 countries, came togetherunder the auspices of the African Unionand decided to form an organizationcalled the African Risk Capacity.What does it do?It&#39;s a weather-based insurance agency,and what these countries dois to pay insurance each year,about 3 million dollars a yearof their own resources,so that in the event they havea difficult drought situation or flood,this money will be paid out to them,which they can then useto take care of their populations,instead of waiting for aid to come.The African Risk Capacitylast year paid 26 million dollarsto Mauritania, Senegal and Niger.This enabled them to take careof 1.3 million people affected by drought.They were able to restore livelihoods,buy fodder for cattle,feed children in schooland in short keep the populations homeinstead of migrating out of the area.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:所以，这些就是非洲已经准备好承担属于它自己的责任，并且为它自己的问题寻找解决之道的故事。然而，这个故事现在遇到了挑战因为非洲大陆在过去两年内一直表现不佳。虽然在过去的十五年里它都是以每年5%的速度在增长，但今年的预估则只有3%。为什么？在一个不稳定的全球环境下，商品价格下跌。许多经济体仍然依靠商品驱动，因此他们的表现有所下滑。而现在 “英国退欧”一点儿都没有让这个问题变得更加轻松。我从没想过“英国退欧”的事情会发生而这也可能成为造成全球动荡的其中一个原因正如我们所面临的。
en:So these are the kinds of storiesof an Africa readyto take responsibility for itself,and to look for solutionsfor its own problems.But that narrative is being challenged nowbecause the continent has notbeen doing well in the last two years.It had been growingat five percent per annumfor the last one and a half decades,but this year&#39;s forecastwas three percent. Why?In an uncertain global environment,commodity prices have fallen.Many of the economiesare still commodity driven,and therefore theirperformance has slipped.And now the issue of Brexitdoesn&#39;t make it any easier.I never knew that the Brexit could happenand that it could be one of the thingsthat would cause global uncertaintysuch as we have.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:所以现在，我们走到了这个情况我认为这也正是时候去全面审视一番并且来思考非洲国家做过的哪些事情是正确的？哪些事情是错误的？我们如何在这一切的基础上吸取教训从而保证非洲持续崛起？
en:So now we&#39;ve got this situation,and I think it&#39;s time to take stockand to say what were the thingsthat the African countries did right?What did they do wrong?How do we build on all of thisand learn lessonsso that we can keep Africa rising?
时间： 3:53
zh-cn:那么让我来谈谈我认为我们做得对的六件事。第一件事，是把我们的经济管理得更好。80年代和90年代是迷失的二十年，当时非洲的状况不是很好，你们或许能想起一期《经济学人》的封面上面写着 “失落的大陆”。但是在21世纪，决策者明白到他们需要去更好得调控宏观经济环境，来确保经济稳定，抑制通货膨胀率于单位数，确保财政赤字较低低于GDP（国内生产总值）的百分之三，给予不论国内外的投资者稳定性保证，这样他们才会对投资这些经济体有信心。以上是第一件事。
en:So let me talk about six thingsthat I think we did right.The first is managingour economies better.The &#39;80s and &#39;90s were the lost decades,when Africa was not doing well,and some of you will rememberan &quot;Economist&quot; coverthat said, &quot;The Lost Continent.&quot;But in the 2000s, policymakers learnedthat they needed to managethe macroeconomic environment better,to ensure stability,keep inflation low in single digits,keep their fiscal deficits low,below three percent of GDP,give investors, both domestic and foreign,some stability so they&#39;ll have confidenceto invest in these economies.So that was number one.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:第二件事，债务。在1994年，非洲国家债务对GDP的比例是130%，而且他们没有财政空间。他们无法用自己的资源去投资于自己的发展因为他们都在偿还债务。在这里也许有一部分人为支持非洲国家的债务减免努力过。所以个人债权人、多边与双向债权人走到了一起决定发起“重债穷国倡议”并且给予债务减免。因此在2005年，这项债务减免使（非洲国家）的债务/GDP比率下降到了30%，这就有了足够的资源去尝试和再投资。
en:Two, debt.In 1994, the debt-to-GDP ratioof African countries was 130 percent,and they didn&#39;t have fiscal space.They couldn&#39;t use their resourcesto invest in their developmentbecause they were paying debt.There may be some of you in this roomwho worked to support African countriesto get debt relief.So private creditors, multilateralsand bilaterals came togetherand decided to do the Highly IndebtedPoor Countries Initiativeand give debt relief.So this debt relief in 2005made the debt-to-GDP ratiofall down to about 30 percent,and there was enough resourcesto try and reinvest.
时间： 5:17
zh-cn:第三件事是亏损企业。政府参与到了他们本无权参与的商业中。他们经营着企业，造成了亏损。所以其中一些企业被重组，商业化、私有化或者关闭，于是，他们让政府的负担减轻了。
en:The third thing wasloss-making enterprises.Governments were involved in businesswhich they had no business being in.And they were running businesses,they were making losses.So some of these enterpriseswere restructured,commercialized, privatized or closed,and they becameless of a burden on government.
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:第四件事则非常有趣。电信革命来了，非洲国家抓住了这个机会。在2000年，我们已经拥有了1100万根电线。到了今天 我们在这片大陆上大概建造了6.87亿电线。这使得我们能够在某些非洲正领先的方面去推进一些移动技术。在肯尼亚，你们都听说过的移动支付——M-Pesa正风靡全国。世界花了一点时间才注意到非洲在这项特殊技术上是领先的。这项移动支付技术也为获取替代能源提供了一个平台。人们现在可以像支付电话费一样支付太阳能费用。所以这是个非常好的发展，方向是正确的。
en:The fourth thingwas a very interesting thing.The telecoms revolution came,and African countries jumped on it.In 2000, we had 11 million phone lines.Today, we have about 687 millionmobile lines on the continent.And this has enabled usto go, move forwardwith some mobile technologywhere Africa is actually leading.In Kenya, the developmentof mobile money —M-Pesa, which all of youhave heard about —it took some time for the worldto notice that Africa was aheadin this particular technology.And this mobile moneyis also providing a platformfor access to alternative energy.You know, people who can now pay for solarthe same way they payfor cards for their telephone.So this was a very good development,something that went right.
时间： 6:29
zh-cn:同样地，我们投资了更多在教育和医疗卫生上，虽然还不够，但也有了一些改进。在过去的十五年里有2500万个儿童得以打了疫苗。
en:We also invested morein education and health, not enough,but there were some improvements.250 million children were immunizedin the last one and a half decades.
时间： 6:41
zh-cn:另一件事是，冲突减少了。在这片土地上有很多很多的矛盾。有许多是你们已经知道的。但是这些矛盾已经缓和了，我们的领导人们甚至设法在抑制一些政变。新型的矛盾产生了，这个我会在之后讲。
en:The other thing wasthat conflicts decreased.There were many conflictson the continent.Many of you are aware of that.But they came down, and our leaderseven managed to dampen some coups.New types of conflicts have emerged,and I&#39;ll refer to those later.
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:基于上述所有，我也希望你们了解到在这片非洲大陆上还存在着一些不同，因为即使这里充满了悲伤和灾难，仍然有一些国家， 例如科特迪瓦、肯尼亚、埃塞俄比亚、坦桑尼亚和塞内加尔，发展得相对的不错。
en:So based on all this, there&#39;s alsosome differentiation on the continentthat I want you to know about,because even asthe doom and gloom is here,there are some countries —Côte d&#39;Ivoire, Kenya, Ethiopia,Tanzania and Senegal are performingrelatively well at the moment.
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:那我们又做错了什么呢？我来提提八件事。你总是必须错的比对的多。
en:But what did we do wrong?Let me mention eight things.You have to havemore things wrong than right.
时间： 7:19
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:这里有八件事是我们做错了的一，虽然我们进步， 我们却没有创造足够的就业岗位。我们没有为我们的年轻人创造就业岗位。在非洲，失业青年大概占15%，而就业不足是一个非常严重的问题。
en:So there are eight things we did wrong.The first was that even though we grew,we didn&#39;t create enough jobs.We didn&#39;t create jobs for our youth.Youth unemployment on the continentis about 15 percent,and underemployment is a serious problem.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:二，发展质量不高。就连那些我们已经创造了的就业岗位，也只是低生产率岗位，因此我们只是把人们从低生产率的农业转移到了低生产率的商业而且还是在城市的非正式部门工作。
en:The second thing that we did is thatthe quality of growth was not good enough.Even those jobs we createdwere low-productivity jobs,so we moved peoplefrom low-productivity agricultureto low-productivity commerceand working in the informal sectorin the urban areas.
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:三，贫富悬殊差距扩大。我们造就了更多亿万富翁。50个亿万富翁 身价960亿美元拥有比这个大陆上7500万底层人民更多的财富。
en:The third thingis that inequality increased.So we created more billionaires.50 billionaires worth 96 billion dollarsown more wealth than the bottom75 million people on the continent.
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:贫困，贫困人口比例——这是我要说的第四件事——确实下降了，但是因为人口增长，实际人数并没有降低。人口增长是一个在非洲大陆上还没有好好讨论过的话题。而我认为我们有需要去解决这个问题，尤其是我们如何教育女孩子们。那才是真正解决这个特殊问题的方法。
en:Poverty,the proportion of people in poverty —that&#39;s the fourth thing — did decrease,but the absolute numbers did notbecause of population growth.And population growth is somethingthat we don&#39;t have enoughof a dialogue about on the continent.And I think we will needto get a handle on it,particularly how we educate girls.That is the road to really workingon this particular issue.
时间： 8:40
zh-cn:五，基础设施投入不足。我们从中国那里获得了资助。这帮助了部分国家，可却远远不够。在非洲的撒哈拉以南地区耗电量相当于西班牙。整体的耗电量相当于西班牙。这意味着很多人生活在黑暗中，就如非洲发展银行行长最近说的，“非洲不能在黑暗中前行”。
en:The fifth thing is that we didn&#39;t investenough in infrastructure.We had investment from the Chinese.That helped some countries,but it&#39;s not enough.The consumption of electricityin Africa on the continentin Sub-Saharan Africais equivalent to Spain.The total consumptionis equivalent to that of Spain.So many people are living in the dark,and as the President of the AfricanDevelopment Bank said recently,Africa cannot develop in the dark.
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:还有一件事我们没完成就是我们始终维持着和数十年前一样的经济结构。即使我们一直在发展，经济的机构并没有什么改变。我们仍然出口商品，而出口商业等于什么？ 等于出口就业岗位。我们的制造业只增值了11%。我们没有创造够多的不错的制造业岗位给我们的年轻人，而且我们自己间的贸易也很少。只有12%的贸易是在我们各国之间的。这就是另一个严峻的难题。
en:The other thing we have not doneis that our economiesretain the same structurethat we&#39;ve had for decades.So even though we&#39;ve been growing,the structure of the economieshas not changed very much.We are still exporting commodities,and exporting commodities is what?It&#39;s exporting jobs.Our manufacturing value-addedis only 11 percent.We are not creating enoughdecent manufacturing jobs for our youth,and trade among ourselves is low.Only about 12 percent of our tradeis among ourselves.So that&#39;s another serious problem.
时间： 9:50
zh-cn:接着来谈谈管理体制。管理体制是一个严重的问题。我们有一些弱势的机构有时候甚至缺乏了一些机构，在我看来这就给了腐败可趁之机。腐败是一个我们至今没有很好去处理的问题，而我们必须尽一切所能去解决它，透过增加我们管理经济的方式的透明度和管理我们的金融。
en:Then governance.Governance is a serious issue.We have weak institutions,and sometimes nonexistent institutions,and I think this gives way for corruption.Corruption is an issue that we have notyet gotten a good enough handle on,and we have to fight tooth and nail,that and increased transparencyin the way we manage our economiesand the way we manage our finances.
时间：10:15
zh-cn:我们同样需要警惕那些新的矛盾，新型的冲突，比如在我的国家尼日利亚，我们和博科圣地的冲突，以及在肯尼亚和索马里青年党的冲突。我们有必要与国际合作伙伴、发达国家，共同打击这些势力。否则，我们只会建立一个全新的却并不是我们所想要的进步的非洲。
en:We also need to be wary of new conflicts,new types of conflicts,such as we have with Boko Haramin my country, Nigeria,and with Al-Shabaab in Kenya.We need to partnerwith international partners,developed countries,to fight this together.Otherwise, we create a new realitywhich is not the typewe want for a rising Africa.
时间：10:39
zh-cn:那么最后，是教育的问题。我们许多国家的教育系统已经崩坏了。我们未能创造未来所有需要的技能类型。所以我们必须找到一个更好的教育方式。而这些，就是我们做得不对的地方。
en:And finally, the issue of education.Our education systemsin many countries are broken.We are not creating the types of skillsneeded for the future.So we have to find a wayto educate better.So those are the thingsthat we are not doing right.
时间：10:57
zh-cn:现在，我们该走向何方？我相信前进的道路就是学会管理成功。当一个人成功了，或一个国家成功以后，他们往往会忘记是什么导致他们成功的。了解到自己成功的原因是什么，管理它并保持住 ，这对我们来说是至关重要的。所以那些我说过我们做得对的事情，我们需要学会再做对一次，坚持正确地去作为。把经济管理好，同时建立稳定性 ，这些都是非常重要的，调控合适的价格和保证政策一致性。我们总是前后不一致。一个政权走了， 另一个政权来了然后他们就把就算很早之前就在那儿的运行政策都扔掉了。这样会导致什么？这样会给人民、家庭、商业，都造成不确定性。他们不知道什么时候、怎么样去投资。
en:Now, where do we go from there?I believe that the way forwardis to learn to manage success.Very often, when people succeedor countries succeed,they forget what made them succeed.Learning what you&#39;re successful at,managing it and keeping itis vital for us.So all those things I said we did right,we have to learn to do it right again,keep doing it right.Managing the economy whilecreating stability is vital,getting prices right,and policy consistency.Very often, we are not consistent.One regime goes out, another comes inand they throw away even the functioningpolicies that were there before.What does this do?It creates uncertaintyfor people, for households,uncertainties for business.They don&#39;t know whether and how to invest.
时间：11:45
zh-cn:债务上，我们一定要管理好 我们在减轻债务上的成功，但是现在很多国家又开始借钱了，我们看到我们的债务/GDP比率又开始逐渐上涨，在某些国家，债务正演变成一个问题，因此我们必须避免这件事发生。所以要管理成功。
en:Debt: we must managethe success we had in reducing our debt,but now countriesare back to borrowing again,and we see our debt-to-GDP ratiobeginning to creep up,and in certain countries,debt is becoming a problem,so we have to avoid that.So managing success.
时间：12:01
zh-cn:下一个事情是专注到那些我们做得不对的事情上。首先是基础设施。是的，大多数国家现在意识到了他们应该投资基础设施，他们也在试图尽最大可能去做到最好。我们一定要做到最好。最重要的是电力。你不能在黑暗中前行。
en:The next thingis focusing with a laser beamon those things we did not do well.First and foremost is infrastructure.Yes, most countries now recognizethey have to invest in this,and they are trying to dothe best they can to do that.We must.The most important thing is power.You cannot develop in the dark.
时间：12:19
zh-cn:接着，管理体制和腐败。我们要与之搏斗。我们要让我们的国家公开透明。尤其是，我们需要聘用我们的年轻人我们的年轻人拥有天赋。我每天都看得到。这就是每天早上叫醒我并且让我整装待发的东西。我们必须解开我们的年轻人身上天赋的枷锁，为他们让路，支持他们去创造和革新并且引领他们的方向。而我深知他们将会带领我们走向正确的方向。
en:And then governance and corruption:we have to fight.We have to make our countries transparent.And above all, we have toengage our young people.We have genius in our young people.I see it every day.It&#39;s what makes me wake upin the morning and feel ready to go.We have to unleashthe genius of our young people,get out of their way,support them to create and innovateand lead the way.And I know that they will lead usin the right direction.
时间：12:46
zh-cn:还有我们的妇女和女孩儿们：我们得意识到女孩儿和妇女是一个礼物。他们有优势，而我们则需要去充分发挥这种优势这样他们才可以为非洲大陆做出贡献。
en:And our women, and our girls:we have to recognizethat girls and women are a gift.They have strength,and we have to unleash that strengthso that they cancontribute to the continent.
时间：12:58
zh-cn:我坚信当我们做好了所有这些事，我们会发现那个崛起的非洲的故事不是一个偶然。而是一个趋势。这是一个趋势，假如我们坚持，假如我们解放我们的青年假如我们解放我们的妇女，我们也许偶尔会退步，我们也许甚至会走偏了一步，但这个趋势已非常明了。非洲将会继续崛起
en:I strongly believethat when we do all of these things,we find that the rising Africa narrativeis not a fluke.It&#39;s a trend.It&#39;s a trend, and if we continue,if we unleash our youth,if we unleash our women,we may step backwards sometimes,we may even step sideways,but the trend is clear.Africa will continue to rise.
时间：13:21
zh-cn:我告诉你，观众中的商人们，对非洲的投资不是为了当下，也不是为了明天，这不是一个短期的，而是一个更长远的事情。但如果你不向非洲投资，那么你将会错过世界上最重要的新兴机遇之一。
en:And I tell you businesspeoplein the audience,investment in Africa is not for today,is not for tomorrow,it&#39;s not a short-term thing,it&#39;s a longer term thing.But if you are not invested in Africa,then you will be missingone of the most importantemerging opportunities in the world.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：13:41
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：13:50
zh-cn:你在你的演讲中提到了腐败，而你作为一个反腐败人士是非常知名的。但这对你是有很大影响的。那些人反击， 你的母亲遭到绑架。你是如何应对这些的？那是一段非常艰难的时期。谢谢你提到了绑架我母亲的问题。这是一个很艰难的话题。但这也正说明当你与腐败斗争时，当你摸到了那些偷钱人的口袋时，他们不会只是保持沉默。他们会反抗，而你得思考，当他们试图恐吓你，你会放弃吗？还是你会继续战斗？你找到一个方法坚持不懈且反击吗？而我与我的工作团队的答案是我们必须继续抗争。我们必须去建立那些机构。我们得找到方法来阻止那些人夺走属于未来的遗产。这就是我们所做的。即使脱离政府，我们仍保持这个观点。在我们的国家，没有人会为了我们与腐败斗争除了我们自己。因此，伴随着一定的后果我们只需要尽我们所能做到最好。但我非常感谢你非常感谢TED 给我们机会向那些人发声你们不会胜利的，我们也不怕恐吓！
en:Kelly Stoetzel: So you mentionedcorruption in your talk,and you&#39;re known, well-knownas a strong anticorruption fighter.But that&#39;s had consequences.People have fought back,and your mother was kidnapped.How have you been handling this?Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala:It&#39;s been very difficult.Thank you for mentioningthe issue of the kidnap of my mother.It&#39;s a very difficult subject.But what it meansis that when you fight corruption,when you touch the pocketsof people who are stealing money,they don&#39;t just keep quiet.They fight back, and the issue for youis when they try to intimidate you,do you give up, or do you fight on?Do you find a wayto stay on and fight back?And the answer that I hadwith the teams I worked withis we have to fight on.We have to create those institutions.We have to find ways to stop these peoplefrom taking awaythe heritage of the future.And so that&#39;s what we did.And even out of government,we continued to make that point.In our countries, nobody,nobody is going to fight corruptionfor us but us.And therefore,that comes with consequences,and we just have to do the best we can.But I thank you and thank TEDfor giving us a voiceto say to those people, you will not win,and we will not be intimidated.
时间：15:11
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间：15:12
zh-cn:（掌声）。
en:(Applause)
时间：15:14
zh-cn:非常感谢你精彩的演讲和做出的重要努力。
en:Kelly Stoetzel: Thank you so muchfor your great talk and important work.
时间：15:17
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
