时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我知道作总结非常，非常难——特别是在这样一个会议的结尾。一位每个人都发表了自己的言论，要说的都说完了。所以我想到，或许对我们真正有用的是提醒我们一些在这里经历过的事，然后可能是提出一些我们可以带走的、带向未来并予以实施的想法。这也就是我想试着做的事。我们来到这里，表示我们想要谈论“非洲：下一个篇章”。但其实我们之所以在这里讨论“非洲：下一个篇章”，是因为我们在回顾和关注过去和现在这两个篇章，却说这不是一件好事。我之前展现给你们的图像，这幅图，关于干旱、死亡和疾病，便是我们常常看见的。而我们想要看到的呢，则是“非洲，下一个篇章”。那就是，一个健康的、微笑着的、美丽的非洲。我坚信我们所听闻的东西值得记忆，自从会议的第一天起，我听到了一切重要的数据统计，关于我们所处的现状，关于这个大陆是怎样日趋进步。这之所以重要是因为我们由此有了一个可以工作的平台。
en:It&#39;s very, very difficultto speak at the end of a conference like this,because everyone has spoken. Everything has been said.So I thought that what may be useful is to remind usof some of the things that have gone on here,and then maybe offer some ideas which we can take away,and take forward and work on.That&#39;s what I&#39;d like to try and do.We came here saying we want to talk about &quot;Africa: the Next Chapter.&quot;But we are talking about &quot;Africa: the Next Chapter&quot;because we are looking at the old and the present chapter — that we&#39;re looking at,and saying it&#39;s not such a good thing.The picture I showed you before, and this picture, of drought, death and diseaseis what we usually see.What we want to look at is &quot;Africa: the Next Chapter,&quot;and that&#39;s this: a healthy, smiling, beautiful African.And I think it&#39;s worth remembering what we&#39;ve heardthrough the conference right from the first day,where I heard that all the important statistics have been given —about where we are now,about how the continent is doing much better.And the importance of that is that we have a platform to build on.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:所以，我不会花太多时间只是向你展示，唤醒你的记忆，告诉你我们在这里讨论“非洲：下一个篇章”，因为史无前例地，我们确实拥有了一个可操作的平台。我们确实把它扶入正轨，正如这片大洲正以一个人们意想不到的速度发展。在数十年间的2%的增速后，我们现在拥有了5%的增速，并且这个数字还在增加着——预计将达六至七个百分点。同时，通货膨胀正趋于缓和。关于外债，我能讲出一个很长的故事。因为，我个人曾为解决这个大洲上最大的债务之一工作过，而它的数额如今也有惊人的下降。你知道，正如你所见，从将近500亿人下降至120或130亿人。这是多大的成就！
en:So I&#39;m not going to spend too much time —just to show you, refresh your memoriesthat we are here for &quot;Africa: the Next Chapter&quot; because for the first timethere really is a platform to build on.We really do have it going rightthat the continent is growing at rates that people had thought would not happen.After decades of 2 percent, we are now at 5 percent,and it&#39;s going to — projected — 6 and 7 percent even.And inflation has come down.External debt — something that I can tell you a long story aboutbecause I personally worked on one of the biggest debts on the continent —has come down dramatically.You know, as you can see,from almost 50 billion down to about 12 or 13 billion.Now this is a huge achievement.
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:你知道，我们已经建立了保护区，这为何重要呢？那是因为，它炫耀着我们的经济，我们的货币，并提供以人们一个可以计划、建立、做生意的平台。我们看到了一些见证着我们创造不同的证据。正如私人投资流扩张了。我想要再次提醒你的是，我知道你们过去已经看过这些数据，从六十亿到现在的一百八十亿。2005年， 汇款—拿尼日利亚作例子—你们知道，那是飞速上升-说飞速上升那就发展得太快了但的确增长地非常快这种现象在其他国家也同样存在为什么这么重要呢？因为它显示了一种信心那些国家的人民现在自信于拿回如果你们人民离散各地，把他们的钱拿回来那说明其他人民，看对你们国家的信心正在崛起现在你们正处于资金纯流入阶段而不是流出
en:You know, we&#39;ve built up reserves. Why is that important?It&#39;s because it shows off our economies, shows off our currenciesand gives a platform on which people can plan and build, including businesses.We&#39;ve also seen some evidence that all this is making a differencebecause private investment flows have increased.I want to remind you again —I know you saw these statistics before —from almost 6 billion we are now at about 18 billion.In 2005, remittances — I just took one country, Nigeriaskyrocketing — skyrocketing is too dramatic,but increasing dramatically.And in many other countries this is happening.Why is this important? Because it shows confidence.People are now confident to bring —if your people in the diaspora bring their money back,it shows other people that, look,there is emerging confidence in your country.And instead of an outflow, you are now getting a net inflow.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:现在，为什么所有都是这么重要？一定要发展这么快吗？重要的是，我们建了这个平台我们有自己的负责人，基奎特，以及其他的领导，他们说“看，我们必须做些有用的事”因为我们正面临着挑战62%的人口都在24岁以下这意味着什么？这意味着我们必须关注我们年青人如何在他们成长过程中投身于生产建设你们必须重视如何创造就业确保他们不被疾病困扰，他们可以接受教育但要确保他们中的大多数人可以投身于生产中他们正在我们的国家创造一种生产环境这种环境会让有些奇迹发生你们知道，为了支持这项使命，我最近辞去政府工作后我所作的事情之一在尼日利亚成立了一个民意调查组织我们大多数国家甚至还没有民意调查组织听不到人民的声音这样的话我们无法知道人民的需要
en:Now, why is all this important, to have to go really fast?It&#39;s important that we build this platform,that we have the president, Kikwete, and others of our leaders who are saying,&quot;Look, we must do something different.&quot;Because we are confronted with a challenge.62 percent of our population is below the age of 24.What does this mean?This means that we have to focus on how our youthare going to be engaged in productive endeavor in their lives.You have to focus on how to create jobs,make sure they don&#39;t fall into disease, and that they get an education.But most of all that they are productively engaged in life,and that they are creating the kind of productive environmentin our countries that will make things happen.And to support this, I just recently —one of the things I&#39;ve done since leaving governmentis to start an opinion research organization in Nigeria.Most of our countries don&#39;t even have any opinion research.People don&#39;t have voice.There is no way you can know what people want.
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:我最近问他们，什么才是他们的最大需求而在其他的国家，这种需求已经得到满足工作就是最大需求我想先到此为止，待会再回来讲但在讲这个之前，我只想让你们明白我个人觉得，建设这个平台的下一步是让我们向前进—我们不能忽视它仅在五，六七年前我们甚至不能谈下一阶段，因为我们还处于旧阶段我们无路可走经济没有发展我们的人均国民收入还是负增长发展必需的微观经济的框架和基础都没有建立起来所以我们不要忘记，建立这个框架和基础需要很多资源包括德立（人名）所指出的我们在尼日利亚尝试做的所有事情创建我们自己的项目去解决问题，像反腐败，建研究机构，稳定微观经济
en:One of the things we asked them recently was what&#39;s their top issue.Like in every other country where this has been done,jobs is the top issue.I want to leave this up here and come back to it.But before I get to this slide, I just wanted to run you through this.And to say that for me, the next stage of building this platformthat now enables us to move forward —and we mustn&#39;t make light of it.It was only 5, 6, 7 years agowe couldn&#39;t even talk about the next chapter, because we were in the old chapter.We were going nowhere.The economies were not growing.We were having negative per capita growth.The microeconomic framework and foundation for moving forwardwas not even there.So let&#39;s not forget that it&#39;s taken a lot to build this,including all those things that we tried to do in Nigeria that Dele referred to.Creating our own program to solve problems, like fighting corruption,building institutions, stabilizing the micro economy.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:如今我们可以在这个平台上建设这也就产生了我们一直以来的争议援助和私营单位，援助和贸易等等有些人站起来说—-最让人头疼的事是这个争议变得简单化了而且这不是我们该争议的我们一直在争议一个错的问题真正的问题应是我们应该怎样调节好政府资助私营单位和负责他们自己生活的普通非洲人民的合作关系我们怎样把这些因素整合起来去发展非洲，去做所需之事我所要表达的意思就是—让年轻人有工作让非洲到处充满着创造性很多你们已经在这里看到了所以我担心你们其实在争议上有些错误我们需要回过头去问所有这些因素整合起来会是怎么样了去获得我们所需要的？
en:So now we have this platform we can build on.And it brings us to the debate that has been going on here:aid versus private sector, aid versus trade, etc.And someone stood up to say that one of the frustrating thingsis that it&#39;s been a simplistic debate.And that&#39;s not what the debate should be about.That&#39;s engaging in the wrong debate.The issue here is how do we get a partnership that involves government donors,the private sector and ordinary African peopletaking charge of their own lives?How do we combine all this?To move our continent forward, to do the things that need doingthat I talked about — getting young people employed.Getting the creative juices flowing on this continent,much of what you have seen here.So I&#39;m afraid we&#39;ve been engaging a little bit in the wrong debate.We need to bring it back to say,what is the combination of all these factorsthat is going to yield what we want? (Applause)
时间： 6:22
zh-cn:我想要跟你们说件事对我来说，援助这事—我觉得非洲人民不需要总是走另一个极端对援助感到不好意思非洲一直以来都给别的国家援助莫爱布雷因在一次讨论会上说—他梦想着有一天非洲能够援助别国然后我说，“莫，说得没错。我们已经—错了，我们一直以来都在这样做！”英国和美国如果没有非洲的援助是不可能发展到今天的
en:And I want to tell you something.For me, the issue about aid —I don&#39;t think that Africans need to now go all the way over to the other sideand feel bad about aid.Africa has been giving the other countries aid.Mo Ibrahim said at a debate we were at thathe dreams one day when Africa will be giving aid.And I said, &quot;Mo, you&#39;re right. We have — no, but we&#39;ve already been doing it!The U.K. and the U.S. could not have been built today without Africa&#39;s aid.&quot;
时间： 6:56
zh-cn:鼓掌
en:(Applause)
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:所有的资源都是从非洲掠夺去的包括人，这些资源成就了今天的他们所以当他们回来援助我们时，我们不应该有抵触心理问题不在这里问题在于我们应怎样使用他们给我们的资源，他们还给我们的资源我们正怎样地使用这些资源会直接产生效益吗我想告诉你们一个小故事为什么我对是否能获得援助并不关心，但关注是否能有效利用援助1967年到1970年，尼日利亚发生了战争—尼日利亚-比夫拉战争战争期间，我只有14岁我们很多时间都在和我的母亲一起做饭给军队吃—我的父亲在军队中做陆军总将—比夫拉军队我们站在比夫拉一边我们每天只吃一顿，还经常迁移到能提供帮助的地方在1969年的某段时间，情况很糟糕我们几乎天天都没得吃人们，孩子因为营养不良而死去我相信你们中稍年长的人会记得那些照片的而我就在其中
en:It is all the resources that were taken from Africa,including human, that built these countries today!So when they try to give back, we shouldn&#39;t be on the defensive.The issue is not that.The issue is how are we using what has been given back.How are we using it?Is it being directed effectively?I want to tell you a little story.Why I don&#39;t mind if we get aid, but we use it well.From 1967 to &#39;70, Nigeria fought a war — the Nigeria-Biafra war.And in the middle of that war, I was 14 years old.We spent much of our time with my mother cooking.For the army — my father joined the army as a brigadier — the Biafran army.We were on the Biafran side.And we were down to eating one meal a day, running from place to place,but wherever we could help we did.At a certain point in time, in 1969, things were really bad.We were down to almost nothing in terms of a meal a day.People, children were dying of kwashiorkor.I&#39;m sure some of you who are not so youngwill remember those pictures.Well, I was in the middle of it.
时间： 8:22
zh-cn:在那期间，我母亲食物中毒了两三天我们想母亲可能会死父亲又没和我们在一起他在军队所以我是家里最大的我的妹妹患了疟疾她只有三岁而我那时15岁她发着严重的高烧—我们试了所有办法但似乎都没有用直到我们听说10公里外有个医生，她能够—治疗病人并给他们药物于是我背着妹妹—非常烫—把她捆在背上走了10公里那时非常热，我又非常饿我很害怕，因为我知道她的生命就完全取决于我能否走到医生那里我们听说有个会治病的女医生我一步一个脚印地艰难地走了10公里当我到了那里，看到一群人围着差不多有一千人，都在挤进门她在一个教堂里看病。那我怎么才能进去呢？
en:In the midst of all this, my mother fell ill with a stomach ailment for two or three days.We thought she was going to die.My father was not there.He was in the army.So I was the oldest person in the house.My sister fell very ill with malaria.She was three years old and I was 15.And she had such a high fever. We tried everything.It didn&#39;t look like it was going to work.Until we heard that 10 kilometers away there was a doctor, who waslooking at people and giving them meds.Now I put my sister on my back — burning —and I walked 10 kilometers with her strapped on my back.It was really hot. I was very hungry.I was scared because I knew her life depended on my getting to this woman.We heard there was a woman doctor who was treating people.I walked 10 kilometers, putting one foot in front of the other.I got there and I saw huge crowds.Almost a thousand people were there, trying to break down the door.She was doing this in a church. How was I going to get in?
时间： 9:29
zh-cn:我必须在这些人的腿间爬行前进背上捆着妹妹爬到了窗边当所有人都想挤进门的时候我从窗户进去，跳进了教堂女医生说我来得非常及时当我们跳进教堂大厅时，她几乎无法动弹了她给妹妹注射了一剂氯喹（治疟疾的药），那时我所知道的就是氯喹—然后给了妹妹一些—这肯定是水合作用的结果—其他的一些药物，把我们放到了一个角落大概两三个小时后，妹妹开始动了接着他们给她擦汗，因为她开始流汗了那是个好兆头接着我妹妹醒过来了大概五六个小时后，她说可以回家了我把她捆在背上我走了10公里回去，这是我走过的最短的路了我非常开心—（鼓掌）—我的妹妹被救活了！现在，她已经41岁了，是三个孩子的母亲她是个医师，挽救着其他生命
en:I had to crawl in between the legs of these peoplewith my sister strapped on my back,find a way to a window.And while they were trying to break down the door,I climbed in through the window, and jumped in.This woman told me it was in the nick of time.By the time we jumped into that hall, she was barely moving.She gave a shot of her chloroquine — what I learned was the chloroquine then —gave her some — it must have been a re-hydration —and some other therapies, and put us in a corner.In about two to three hours, she started to move.And then they toweled her down because she started sweating,which was a good sign.And then my sister woke up.And about five or six hours later, she said we could go home.I strapped her on my back.I walked the 10 kilometers back and it was the shortest walk I ever had.I was so happy — (Applause) — that my sister was alive!Today she&#39;s 41 years old, a mother of three,and she&#39;s a physician saving other lives.
时间：10:44
zh-cn:为什么我要说这个？我是在告诉你们因为—如果那是你—或你的家人—你并不关心援助在哪里—援助什么你不关心到底是什么援助！你只是想让人活下去现在我让自己不那么伤感了，我认为挽救生命在非洲有些援助是有这个效果当你救了别人的命，如农民，教师或一位母亲他们对经济是有很大贡献的作为一名经济学家，我们也可以看到故事的这一层含义这些人在经济上是生产力的代表所以如果我们拯救得爱滋病的人，如果我们拯救得了疟疾的人这些人就成了经济生产力的基础同样就像昨天有人说的，如果你不救，他们就会死他们的孩子就会成为整个经济的负担甚至从经济学的角度看如果我们是社会性的和人道主义的我们必须要去拯救生命那是其中一个原因，我个人的经历告诉我们要将我们获得的资源分配到生产力上然后，我也想告诉你们很多人，包括我在内不相信这是唯一的出路这也是为什么我说这个讨论会应该更精细你们知道，我们应该很好利用这些资源
en:Why am I telling that? I&#39;m telling you that because —when it is you or your person involved —you don&#39;t care where — whether it&#39;s aid.You don&#39;t care what it is! (Applause)You just want the person to be alive!And now let me become less sentimental, and say that saving lives —which some of the aid we get does on this continent —when you save the life of anyone, a farmer, a teacher, a mother,they are contributing productively into the economy.And as an economist, we can also look at that side of the story.These are people who are productive agents in the economy.So if we save people from HIV/AIDS, if we save them from malaria,it means they can form the base of production for our economy.And by the same token —as someone said yesterday — if we don&#39;t and they die,their children will become a burden on the economy.So even from an economic standpoint,if we leave the social and the humanitarian,we need to save lives now.So that&#39;s one of the reasons, from a personal experience, that I saylet&#39;s channel these resources we get into something productive.However, I will also tell you that I&#39;m one of thosewho doesn&#39;t believe that this is the sole answer.That&#39;s why I said the debate has to get more sophisticated.You know, we have to use it well.
时间：12:21
zh-cn:欧洲怎么做的呢？你们都知道西班牙—欧盟的成员国—从欧盟的其他成员国那里获得100亿欧元的援助？援助到了他们手中—西班牙有没有觉得丢脸？不会！欧盟援助了100亿。这些钱都用到哪儿了？你们最近有去过西班牙南部吗？那里到处是路到处是基础设施由于基础设施的支持，整个南部西班牙已经发展成服务经济了你们知道爱尔兰获得30亿的援助吗？爱尔兰是现在欧盟发展最快的国家之一许多人，甚至是世界其他国家的人到那里去找工作爱尔兰人到底拿了这30亿去做什么了？他们用这些钱建了信息高速公路这个基础设施使得爱尔兰能够参与—或者现在能够参与—信息技术革命并且创造了很多就业机会他们没说，不，你们知道，我们不打算拿这笔钱现在，欧盟内部积极开展援助工作我的疑惑是如果他们可以在西班牙建基础设施那些公路，高速公路或其他一些基础设施那为什么他们拒绝用同样的援助资金在我们国家建基础设施呢？（鼓掌）
en:What has happened in Europe?Do you all know that Spain — part of the EU —got 10 billion dollars in aid from the rest of the EU?Resources that were transferred to them —and were the Spanish ashamed of this? No!The EU transferred 10 billion. Where did they use it?Have you been to southern Spain lately? There are roads everywhere.Infrastructure everywhere.It is on the back of this that the whole of southern Spainhas developed into a services economy.Did you know that Ireland got 3 billion dollars in aid?Ireland is one of the fastest-growing economies in the European Union today.For which many people, even from other parts of the world,are going there to find jobs.What did they do with the 3 billion dollars in aid?They used it to build an information superhighway,gain infrastructure thatenables them to participate in theinformation technology revolution,and to create jobs in their economy.They didn&#39;t say, &quot;No, you know, we&#39;re not going to take this.&quot;Today, the European Union is busy transferring aid.My frustration is if they can build infrastructure in Spain —which is roads, highways, other things that they can build —I say then, why do they refuse to use the same aidto build the same infrastructure in our countries? (Applause)
时间：13:41
zh-cn:当我们问他们，告诉他们我们需要什么的时候？现在我所担心的是我们现在有很多基金组织了我们讲到世界银行，国际货币基金组织，可靠性和诸如此类的以及欧盟我们也有一些很富有的公民他们有些人就是观众里面，和一些私人基金组织有一天，这些组织会有很多钱他们将代替一直以来的政府援助但我担心—-我也对他们很感激他们为非洲所做的事但我也担心。我起床时肚子很痛因为我看到一批新的援助企业家在非洲而且他们也行走于各国间很多次都尝试着找到应该该做的事但我真的不太确定他们的帮助是否走对了方向而且他们中的很多人不太了解非洲的情况他们只是不断地在发现很多时候我都没看到他们与非洲人一起在工作他们经常独断独行！（鼓掌）
en:When we ask them and tell them what we need,one of my worries today is that we have many foundations now.Now we talk about the World Bank, IMF, and accountability, all thatand the EU.We also have private citizens now who have a lot of money —some of them in this audience, with private foundations.And one day, these foundations have so much money,they will overtake the official aid that is being given.But I fear — and I&#39;m very grateful to all of themfor what they are trying to do on the continent —but I&#39;m also worried. I wake up with a gnawing in my bellybecause I see a new set of aid entrepreneurs on the continent.And they&#39;re also going from country to country,and many times trying to find what to do.But I&#39;m not really sure that their assistanceis also being channeled in the right way.And many of them are not really familiar with the continent.They are just discovering.And many times I don&#39;t see Africans working with them.They are just going alone! (Applause)
时间：14:56
zh-cn:而且很多时候我觉得他们不太感兴趣于听取非洲人的意见他们就想访问我们看看土地上发生着什么，然后做出决定现在我所说的可能比较尖锐但我焦虑是因为这点钱非常重要现在，他们向谁负责？当他们做决定投钱的时候我们是不是也在董事会呢？我们在那里吗？我们会犯以前犯过的错误吗？我们的总统和领导人—每个人都在谈论—有没有把这些人召集到一起说“看，你的基金组织和你的基金组织—你们有那么多钱，我们很感激我们坐下来，商议一下这些钱应该怎么用和这些钱到底应该投向哪里。”我们有没有这样做呢？答案是不每个人都在做着他们自己的努力至今十年间，上十亿的资金投入到非洲我们仍然存在同样的问题
en:And many times I get the impression that they are not really even interestedin hearing from Africans who might know.They want to visit us,see what&#39;s happening on the ground and make a decision.And now I&#39;m maybe being harsh.But I worry because this money is so important.Now, who are they accountable to?Are we on their boards when they make decisionsabout where to channel money? Are we there?Will we make the same mistake that we made before?Have our presidents and our leaders — everyone is talking about —have they ever called these people together and said,&quot;Look, your foundation and your foundation —you have so much money, we are grateful.Let&#39;s sit down and really tell you where the money should be channeledand where this aid should go.&quot;Have we done that? The answer is no.And each one is making their own individual effort.And then 10 years from now, billions will again have gone into Africa,and we would still have the same problems.
时间：15:55
zh-cn:这也就是展现给我们的绝望的场景我们没有能力掌控起来，对这些投钱的人说“坐下”我们没有这样做是因为我们人太多了，我们没有协调起来我们没有叫比尔盖茨和索罗斯—以及其他帮助非洲的人说“坐下，咱们开个会。作为一个大陆，这是我们最需要的。这里需要你们投入金钱。”不是每个人都是企业家出动一下就能发现什么才是最好的我们并没有阻止他们这样做。根本没有！但让他们能够更有效地帮助我们但让我感觉失望的是我们并没有这样在做至今10年，我们的问题依然存在并且还会重复出现所以我们现在的问题是我们应该怎样协调那些向我们所表达的好意我们怎样才能使政府很恰当地整合私营基金组织和国际组织和我们那些私营单位
en:This is what gives us the hopeless image.Our inability to take charge and say to all these people bringing their money,&quot;Sit down.&quot;And we don&#39;t do it because there are so many of us. We don&#39;t coordinate.We&#39;ve not called the Bill Gates, and the Soros,and everybody else who is helping and say,&quot;Sit down. Let&#39;s have a conference with you.As a continent, here are our priorities.Here is where we want you to channel this money.&quot;Each one should not be an entrepreneurgoing out and finding what is best.We&#39;re not trying to stop them at all! But to help them help us better.And what is disappointing me is that we are not doing this.Ten years from now we will have the same story,and we will be repeating the same things.So our problem right now is, how can we leverageall this good will that is coming towards our way?How can we get government to combine properlywith these private foundations, with the international organizations,and with our private sector.
时间：17:07
zh-cn:我也对私营单位充满着信心但它不能单独行动所以可能有些想法会奏效他们说这有关于推广和分离想法所以我们为什么不想想怎样使用援助资金而且，为什么我们不首先对那些帮助我们的人说不要在基础设施建设上吝啬你们发展的医疗如果没有基础设施建设是无法长久的教育会发展地更好如果你们建设了电力和铁路，以及其他农业也会发展更好如果有铁路可以把作物运送到市场千万别对基础设施不感兴趣也把你们的资源投到那里去吧于是我们可以发现这其实就是整合了私人的，国际社会的以及多方面的资金私营单位和非洲人可以合作那么援助就是一个发展推进器那也是援助该有的效果我坚信援助不能解决我们的问题但却可以成为催化剂。如果我们没能用它做催化剂我们就会失败
en:I firmly believe in that private sector thing too.But it cannot do it alone.So there might be a few ideas we could think of that could work.They said this is about proliferating and sharing ideas.So why don&#39;t we think of using some of this aid?Well, why don&#39;t we first say to those helping us out,&quot;Don&#39;t be shy about infrastructure.That health that you&#39;re working on cannot be sustainable without infrastructure.That education will work betterif we&#39;ve got electricity and railroads, and so on.That agriculture will work better if there are railroads to get the goods to market.Don&#39;t be shy of it.Invest some of your resources in that, too.&quot;And then we can see that this is one combinationof private, international, multilateral money,private sector and the African that we can put together as a partnership,so that aid can be a facilitator.That is all aid can be.Aid cannot solve our problems, I&#39;m firmly convinced about that.But it can be catalytic. And if we fail to use it as catalytic,we would have failed.
时间：18:26
zh-cn:中国为什么更受非洲人欢迎的一个原因就是—众多原因之一—不仅在于这个，有些人说你们这些人很愚蠢中国一直是为争夺资源而来非洲的这是因为中国人更懂得经济杠杆如果你告诉他们，“我们需要在这里建条路。”他们会帮你建好千万不要不管基础设施建设事实上，中国财政部长对我说当我问他尼日利亚具体错在哪里时他说你们只需要做两件事“基础设施，基础设施，基础设施—以及规划，你们没有规划。”（鼓掌）然后我觉得整个非洲都该这样道理是一样的，我们需要基础设施，基础设施和规划所以我们可以使催化刘帮助我们提供部分基础设施现在我意识到，我不是说，医疗和教育不，你们也是可以在那两个方面投入资金的但我不是想说只能两者选其一让我们来看看援助怎样成为推进器，在合作之中这是一个想法第二，对私营单位来说他们担心在非洲有很大风险为什么有些援助就不能用来担保这些人可能遇到的风险呢？
en:One of the reasons why China is a bit popular with Africans now —one of the reasons is not only just that, you know, these people are stupidand China is coming to take resources.It&#39;s because there&#39;s a little more leverage in terms of the Chinese.If you tell them, &quot;We need a road here,&quot;they will help you build it.They don&#39;t shy away from infrastructure.In fact, the Chinese minister of finance said to me,when I asked him what are we doing wrong in Nigeria.He said, &quot;There are two things you need only.Infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure and discipline.You are undisciplined.&quot; (Applause)And I repeat it for the continent.It&#39;s the same. We need infrastructure, infrastructure and discipline.So we can make a catalytic to help us provide some of that.Now I realize — I&#39;m not saying — health and education —no, you can also provide that as well.But I&#39;m saying it&#39;s not either or.Let&#39;s see how aid can be a facilitator in partnership.One idea.Second thing, for the private sector,people are afraid to take risks on the continent.Why can&#39;t some of this aid be used as a kind of guarantee mechanisms,to enable people to take risk?
时间：19:46
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：19:47
zh-cn:但最后，因为他们都站着—我时间用完了—我的时间用完了我的时间到了吗？好的，那让我说完我的结束语其中一件事就是我想每个人团结起来帮助妇女就业。（鼓掌）在这里妇女的话题谈了很多，我也不想重复但有些妇女的确在创造就业据我们所知，研究已经表明当你把资源交由妇女来管理时事实上，那是一个计量经济学上的统计—世界银行在2000年的年报中已经表明由妇女来管理会让孩子更健康，家庭会更好，经济也会更好以及其他的所以我是想说的是我并不是想说男人不重要很明显，如果妇女离开了丈夫，她们会怎样她们回到家中，变得不高兴这就会导致我们不愿见到的困难我们不允许男人因为女人没有工作而打女人
en:And finally, because they are both standing at my — I&#39;m out of time.Am I out of time?OK, so let me not forget my punchline.One of the things I want everybody to collaborate on isto support women, to create jobs. (Applause)A lot has been said here about women, I don&#39;t need to repeat it.But there are people — women — creating jobs.And we know, studies have shownthat when you put resources in the hand of the woman —in fact, there&#39;s an econometric study,the World Bank Review, done in 2000, showing thattransfers into the hands of women resultin healthier children, more for the household, more for the economy and all that.So I&#39;m saying that one of the takeaways from here —I&#39;m not saying the men are not important —obviously, if you leave the husbands out, what will they do?They&#39;ll come back home and get disgruntled,and it will result in difficulties we don&#39;t want.We don&#39;t want men beating their wivesbecause they don&#39;t have a job, and so on.
时间：20:52
zh-cn:但至少，我们也—我想推广这个想法因为原因在于男人会自动地—不是自动地—但他们倾向于获得更多帮助但我想你们要意识到资源掌控在非洲女人心中也是很有用的有些妇女就在创造就业碧翠丝 加库马在卢旺达的鲜花生意中创造了200个就业岗位在尼日利亚，伊布康 阿沃斯卡的家具—椅子公司她还要扩大公司她需要另外2000万资金她会创造10万2百多个岗位所以接下来的问题就是你们怎样整合那些把资金交由那些妇女掌控的资源这些妇女已经有一定的经济实力那些想扩大公司并创造更多就业岗位的商人最后，你们也可以个人身份去参与与政府，私营单位以及非洲人的合作谢谢。（鼓掌）
en:But at the margin, we also — I want to push this,because the reason is the men automatically —they get — not automatically, but they tend to get more support.But I want you to realize that resourcesin the hands of African women is a powerful tool.There are people creating jobs.Beatrice Gakuba has created 200 jobs from her flower business in Rwanda.We have Ibukun Awosika in Nigeria, with the chair company.She wants to expand.She needs another 20 million.She will create another 100, 200 more jobs.So take away from here is how are you going to put togetherthe resources to put money in the hands of women in the middlewho are ready —business people who want to expand and create more jobs.And lastly, what are you going to doto be part of this partnership of aid, government, private sectorand the African as an individual?Thank you. (Applause)
