时间： 0:16
zh-cn:非常感谢克里斯。每位走上讲台的人都说他们很害怕。我也不清楚我是否害怕，但我还是第一次像这样面对公众演说。我的演讲中没有智能技术辅助供你们参阅。没有幻灯片，只要你们对我本人感到满意就好。笑
en:Thank you very much, Chris. Everybody who came up heresaid they were scared. I don&#39;t know if I&#39;m scared,but this is my first time of addressing an audience like this.And I don&#39;t have any smart technology for you to look at.There are no slides, so you&#39;ll just have to be content with me.(Laughter)
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:我想利用这个上午和大家分享几个故事并向大家讲述一个不一样的非洲。在此之前有一些事情经常被用来暗指非洲，就像你们一直听说的那样：非洲的艾滋病毒，非洲的疟疾，非洲的贫穷，非洲国家的冲突，以及非洲境内的种种灾难。
en:What I want to do this morning is share with you a couple of storiesand talk about a different Africa.Already this morning there were some allusions to the Africathat you hear about all the time: the Africa of HIV/AIDS,the Africa of malaria, the Africa of poverty, the Africa of conflict,and the Africa of disasters.
时间： 1:04
zh-cn:这些事情确有发生但我要介绍的是一个大家不常听闻的非洲。有时我也很困惑，常自问这是为什么。正如克里斯说的，这是一个不断变化着的非洲。一个充满机遇的非洲。一个人们想要自己掌握未来和命运的非洲一个人们在不断寻求合作，以实现上述目标的非洲。这正是我今天想要谈的。
en:While it is true that those things are going on,there&#39;s an Africa that you don&#39;t hear about very much.And sometimes I&#39;m puzzled, and I ask myself why.This is the Africa that is changing, that Chris alluded to.This is the Africa of opportunity.This is the Africa where people want to take charge oftheir own futures and their own destinies.And this is the Africa where people are looking for partnershipsto do this. That&#39;s what I want to talk about today.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:我想先给大家讲个故事故事有关非洲的转变。2005年9月15日，迪普利亚先生时任尼日利亚一州之长，此州盛产石油他在伦敦访问期间被伦敦市警察逮捕。原因是有800万美元巨款转入他和他家人的几个休眠账户。这次逮捕行动是由伦敦市警察与尼日利亚经济与金融犯罪委员会合作进行的。上述委员会由我们国家最具才干与勇气的人之一-努胡 利巴杜领导。对Alamieyeseigha 的传讯在伦敦进行。由于疏忽，他乔装成女人成功逃脱，从伦敦跑回了尼日利亚。在尼日利亚，与世界上很多国家一样，我们的宪法规定：那些在政府任职的，如地方长官，总统这样的官员拥有豁免权，可以免于被起诉。但接下来发生的事却是这样的：当地人民对他的行为很是愤怒，该州州议会对他进行了弹劾，把他赶下台了
en:And I want to start by telling youa story about that change in Africa.On 15th of September 2005, Mr. Diepreye Alamieyeseigha,a governor of one of the oil-rich states of Nigeria,was arrested by the London Metropolitan Police on a visit to London.He was arrested because there were transfers of eight million dollarsthat went into some dormant accountsthat belonged to him and his family.This arrest occurred because there was cooperationbetween the London Metropolitan Policeand the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission of Nigeria —led by one of our most able and courageous people: Mr. Nuhu Ribadu.Alamieyeseigha was arraigned in London.Due to some slip-ups, he managed to escape dressed as a womanand ran from London back to Nigeria where,according to our constitution, those in officeas governors, president — as in many countries —have immunity and cannot be prosecuted. But what happened:people were so outraged by this behavior that it was possiblefor his state legislature to impeach him and get him out of office.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:而现在，我们暂且简单的称其为Alams,他正在监狱服刑。这个故事说明，非洲的人民已经不再能够容忍他们领导人的腐败行为了。已经不再能够容忍他们领导人的腐败行为了。这个故事同时也说明，非洲人民希望他们的资源能够得到合理管理，为他们造福而不是仅仅让少数精英获利。♪因此当你们总在听闻非洲的腐败时，我想要你们知道，一些国家的人民和政府正在全力打击腐败行为。并且取得了不错的效果。
en:Today, Alams — as we call him for short — is in jail.This is a story about the fact that people in Africaare no longer willing to tolerate corruption from their leaders.This is a story about the fact that people want their resourcesmanaged properly for their good, and not taken out to placeswhere they&#39;ll benefit just a few of the elite.And therefore, when you hear about the corrupt Africa —corruption all the time — I want you to know that the peopleand the governments are trying hard to fight thisin some of the countries, and that some successes are emerging.
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:这就意味着问题解决了么。答案是否定的。我们还有很长的路要走，但我们有决心。在这场重要的打击行动中，我们取得的成功会被记下。所以，当你们再听说非洲的腐败时，请不要再认为我们什么都没做，不要认为非洲腐败盛行，你们无法在其中任何国家经营事业。因为事情不是这样的。许多国家立志打击腐败，这场打击行动正在进行并且取得了成功。在别的地方，像是我的家乡，一个在尼日利亚有着很长专政历史的地方，打击行动同样正在进行着，我们今后的路还很长。
en:Does it mean the problem is over? The answer is no.There&#39;s still a long way to go, but that there&#39;s a will there.And that successes are being chalked up on this very important fight.So when you hear about corruption,don&#39;t just feel that nothing is being done about this —that you can&#39;t operate in any African countrybecause of the overwhelming corruption. That is not the case.There&#39;s a will to fight, and in many countries, that fight is ongoingand is being won. In others, like mine,where there has been a long history of dictatorship in Nigeria,the fight is ongoing and we have a long way to go.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:但事实是打击行动正在进行。并且已经初见成效：世界银行和其他组织独立监察报告称：腐败现象呈下降趋势，政府的监管力度有所加强。非洲经济委员会的一项研究显示非洲28个国家的监管力度呈明显的上升趋势。
en:But the truth of the matter is that this is going on.The results are showing:independent monitoring by the World Bank and other organizationsshow that in many instances the trend is downwardsin terms of corruption, and governance is improving.A study by the Economic Commission for Africa showeda clear trend upwards in governance in 28 African countries.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:在我结束监管这个话题时，我想再说一点：人们爱谈论腐败，并且每当他们谈论这个话题时，你就会立刻想到非洲。这就是非洲国家的形象。但是请听我说：要是Alams成功地将800万美金存入了伦敦的账户中，要是有其他人也拿了这么大一笔钱那么估计现在就有200至400亿来自发展中国家的钱被转移到发达国家了，当然前提是这些人能做到这一点那这算什么？这难道不是腐败么在这些国家，如果你收受赃物，难道你不会被判刑吗？所以当我们再谈论这类腐败事件时，让我们也想一想地球的另一边正在发生的事。钱正流向哪里，还有我们能做些什么来阻止这些事情发生。现在，我正与世界银行合作在资产回收问题上尝试一种新的方案，我们正在尽全力把那些已经带到国外的的钱，也就是发展中国家的钱回收回来。因为如果我们能够将流散在外的200亿美元回收回来的话，对某些国家来说，这比他们得到的所有救助的总和还要多。（鼓掌）
en:And let me say just one more thingbefore I leave this area of governance.That is that people talk about corruption, corruption.All the time when they talk about ityou immediately think about Africa.That&#39;s the image: African countries. But let me say this:if Alams was able to export eight million dollars into an account in London —if the other people who had taken money, estimated at20 to 40 billion now of developing countries&#39; moniessitting abroad in the developed countries — if they&#39;re able to do this,what is that? Is that not corruption?In this country, if you receive stolen goods, are you not prosecuted?So when we talk about this kind of corruption, let us also thinkabout what is happening on the other side of the globe —where the money&#39;s going and what can be done to stop it.I&#39;m working on an initiative now, along with the World Bank,on asset recovery, trying to do what we canto get the monies that have been taken abroad —developing countries&#39; moneys — to get that sent back.Because if we can get the 20 billion dollars sitting out there back,it may be far more for some of these countriesthan all the aid that is being put together.(Applause)
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:我想要谈的第二点是改革的决心非洲人，他们厌倦了，我们已经厌倦了作为所有人帮扶的对象。我们（对给予我们的帮助）心存感激，但我们知道如果我们决心改革的话，我们就能掌控自己的命运。许多非洲国家已经意识到除了我们自己，没有人能做成这件事。 我们必须要改革。我们可以邀请合作伙伴来帮助我们，但我们一定要开始改革。我们必须改革我们的经济体系，变更领导机制，使我们的国家更民主，更加与时俱进。
en:The second thing I want to talk about is the will for reform.Africans, after — they&#39;re tired, we&#39;re tiredof being the subject of everybody&#39;s charity and care.We are grateful, but we know thatwe can take charge of our own destinies if we have the will to reform.And what is happening in many African countries now is a realizationthat no one can do it but us. We have to do it.We can invite partners who can support us, but we have to start.We have to reform our economies, change our leadership,become more democratic, be more open to change and to information.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:这正是我们，在非洲大陆的其中一个大国，尼日利亚，已经着手进行的。事实上，如果你没到过尼日利亚，你就没到过非洲。我要告诉你们。笑¼的撒哈拉以南的非洲人是尼日利亚人，尼日利亚拥有140，000，000流动人口-混乱的人群-但是很有趣的人群。在那里，你永远不会感到无聊。笑
en:And this is what we started to doin one of the largest countries on the continent, Nigeria.In fact, if you&#39;re not in Nigeria, you&#39;re not in Africa.I want to tell you that.(Laughter)One in four sub-Saharan Africans is Nigerian,and it has 140 million dynamic people — chaotic people —but very interesting people. You&#39;ll never be bored.(Laughter)
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:我们首先意识到我们要自己主导改革。这一过程需要得到一位有改革的决心的领袖的支持我们提出了一个全面的改革方案这一方案是由我们自己设计的不是国际货币基金组织设计的，也不靠世界银行，我曾经在世行工作了21年，做到了副主席职位。你不可以假手于人。你一定要自己亲自去做。
en:What we started to do was to realizethat we had to take charge and reform ourselves.And with the support of a leaderwho was willing, at the time, to do the reforms,we put forward a comprehensive reform program,which we developed ourselves.Not the International Monetary Fund. Not the World Bank,where I worked for 21 years and rose to be a vice president.No one can do it for you. You have to do it for yourself.
时间： 7:33
zh-cn:在我们提出的方案里，首先要做的是使政府权力退出企业，政府完全不应该掺杂到商业运作里政府不应参与到生产产品，提供服务的企业里因为这样效率低下且不具竞争力。因而我们决定将许多企业私有化。（掌声）我们最终决定开放许多市场。你一定不会相信，改革之前也就是在2003年底，在我离开华盛顿担任本国的财政部长之前，我们的一个电信公司在其发展的30年间仅接通了4500条地上通讯线。（笑）
en:We put together a program that would, one: get the stateout of businesses it had nothing — it had no business being in.The state should not be in the businessof producing goods and servicesbecause it&#39;s inefficient and incompetent.So we decided to privatize many of our enterprises.(Applause)We — as a result, we decided to liberalize many of our markets.Can you believe that prior to this reform —which started at the end of 2003, when I left Washingtonto go and take up the post of Finance Minister —we had a telecommunications company that was only able to develop4,500 landlines in its entire 30-year history?(Laughter)
时间： 8:22
zh-cn:在我的家乡拥有一部电话是一件极为奢侈的事。你很难安上电话，你还要为此行贿，你得不惜一切才能安上电话。当奥巴桑乔总统支持并实行开放电信市场后，我们的4500条地上通讯线变为了3200万条全球移动通讯线路，而且还在增加，尼日利亚电信市场的增长速度位居世界第二，仅次于中国。我们每年在这一电信业投资大约10亿元而除了少数聪明人外，没人会知道这一事实。（笑）
en:Having a telephone in my country was a huge luxury.You couldn&#39;t get it. You had to bribe.You had to do everything to get your phone.When President Obasanjo supported and launchedthe liberalization of the telecommunications sector,we went from 4,500 landlines to 32 million GSM lines, and counting.Nigeria&#39;s telecoms market is the second-fastest growing in the world,after China. We are getting investments of about a billion dollars a yearin telecoms. And nobody knows, except a few smart people.(Laughter)
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:最明智的一家公司要属最先进入该市场的南非MTN公司。在我担任财政部长的三年间，它们年均盈利3亿6千万美元。3亿6千万，这是在一个人均收入不足500美元的贫困国家实现的。因此，市场是存在的。即使他们想把这个市场隐藏起来，别人还是很快就会知道。尼日利亚人自己也开始创立一些无线电信公司。另外还有3,4家外国公司进入了市场但是广阔的市场空间就摆在那里。而人们对此一无所知，或他们根本不想知道。私有化是我们完成的其中一件事。
en:The smartest one, first to come in,was the MTN company of South Africa.And in the three years that I was Finance Minister,they made an average of 360 million dollars profit per year.360 million in a market — in a country that is a poor country,with an average per capita income just under 500 dollars per capita.So the market is there.When they kept this under wraps, but soon others got to know.Nigerians themselves began to developsome wireless telecommunications companies,and three or four others have come in.But there&#39;s a huge market out there,and people don&#39;t know about it, or they don&#39;t want to know.So privatization is one of the things we&#39;ve done.
时间： 9:54
zh-cn:我们做的另一件事是将我们的财政管理得更好。因为如果你连本国的财政都管理得不好的话，没人会帮助你，支持你。拥有石油业的尼日利亚就以腐败多发，财政糟糕著称。那么我们作了什么尝试呢？我们采用了一项财政规则即将预算与石油价格脱钩。在此之前，我们的做法是根据石油能带来的收入调整预算因为石油是我国最大，最赚钱的产业-我们70%的收入来自石油。我们将两者脱钩，开始将预算设定在稍低于石油价格的水平而高于该价格的收入就是财政盈余我们当时并不知道这么做是否会成功，这在当时引起了很大的争议但是我们收到了立竿见影的效果。曾经在我们的经济发展中所展现的波动性也就是说，当石油价格高企的时候，我们会发展得很快当石油价格崩溃的时候，我们也会遭殃我们的经济能力甚至可能会无法支付任何东西，任何工资我们的改革缓和了这种波动性。在我离任前，我们的国家有270亿的盈余，这些盈余都进入了我们的国库。而与之相比在2003年我上任的时候，我们国家仅有70亿的储备金到我离开的时候，我们的储备金上升至将近300亿。而现在来说，由于对我们的财政的合理管理我们的国库里有将近400亿的储备金这使我们的经济快速、稳定地发展。
en:The other thing we&#39;ve also done is to manage our finances better.Because nobody&#39;s going to help you and support youif you&#39;re not managing your own finances well.And Nigeria, with the oil sector, had the reputationof being corrupt and not managing its own public finances well.So what did we try to do? We introduced a fiscal rulethat de-linked our budget from the oil price.Before we used to just budget on whatever oil we bring in,because oil is the biggest, most revenue-earning sectorin the economy: 70 percent of our revenues come from oil.We de-linked that, and once we did it, we began to budgetat a price slightly lower than the oil priceand save whatever was above that price.We didn&#39;t know we could pull it off; it was very controversial.But what it immediately did was that the volatilitythat had been present in terms of our economic development —where, even if oil prices were high, we would grow very fast.When they crashed, we crashed.And we could hardly even pay anything, any salaries, in the economy.That smoothened out. We were able to save, just before I left,27 billion dollars. Whereas — and this went to our reserves —when I arrived in 2003, we had seven billion dollars in reserves.By the time I left, we had gone up to almost 30 billion dollars. Andas we speak now, we have about 40 billion dollars in reservesdue to proper management of our finances.And that shores up our economy, makes it stable.
时间：11:37
zh-cn:我们那曾经不断波动的汇率现在相当稳定并且得到了有效管理，这使商人可以预计经济生活中各种物资的价格我们将通胀率从28%降至大约11%我们的国内生产总值增长从过去十年的平均2.3%上升至现在的6.5%可以说我们能做到的所有改变和改革所带来的成效都通过实质的经济数据显现出来了。
en:Our exchange rate that used to fluctuate all the timeis now fairly stable and being managed so that business peoplehave a predictability of prices in the economy.We brought inflation down from 28 percent to about 11 percent.And we had GDP grow from an average of 2.3 percent the previous decadeto about 6.5 percent now.So all the changes and reforms we were able to makehave shown up in results that are measurable in the economy.
时间：12:13
zh-cn:更重要的是，由于我们都希望摆脱对石油的依赖使我们的经济多元化——正如其他非洲国家一样——我们这样的一个大国家充满了机遇值得注意的是这一经济增长中的很大一部分并非单纯来自于石油业，而是来自非石油业。农业的增长高于8%。同样有增长的还有电信业，房屋及建筑业，我还可以不断地举例。这就证明了只要把宏观经济理顺在各个领域都能发现巨大的商机
en:And what is more important, because we want to get away from oiland diversify — and there are so many opportunitiesin this one big country, as in many countries in Africa —what was remarkable is that much of this growth camenot from the oil sector alone, but from non-oil.Agriculture grew at better than eight percent.As telecoms sector grew, housing and construction,and I could go on and on. And this is to illustrate to you thatonce you get the macro-economy straightened out,the opportunities in various other sectors are enormous.
时间：12:49
zh-cn:正如我所说的，我们的农业有很多的发展机会我们的固体矿产也存在商机。我们的矿产资源丰富但没有人投资或者开采。我们已经意识到如果没有相应的立法资源是得不到开发的。所以现在我们有一部可与世界上一些最好的法律相媲美的矿业法我们的住房和房地产业也充满商机在这个有1400万人口的国家里，什么都没有正如你所知道的，以前这里没有购物中心这对于被人们的想象力所激发的人来说是一个投资的机会现在，在这个购物中心的商家们都取得了他们预期的四倍的营业额
en:We have opportunities in agriculture, like I said.We have opportunities in solid minerals. We have a lot of mineralsthat no one has even invested in or explored. And we realizedthat without the proper legislation to make that possible,that wouldn&#39;t happen. So we&#39;ve now got a mining codethat is comparable with some of the best in the world.We have opportunities in housing and real estate.There was nothing in a country of 140 million people —no shopping malls as you know them here.This was an investment opportunity for someonethat excited the imagination of people.And now, we have a situation in which the businesses in this mallare doing four times the turnover that they had projected.
时间：13:34
zh-cn:因此可以说，建筑业，房地产和抵押贷款行业都发生了巨大的变化。现在我们来看看金融服务业：我们以前有89家银行。很多银行并没有在真正开展业务我们将89家银行整合至25家。这是通过要求它们增加资本——股票资本实现的。我们对银行的资本要求从原来的2500万上升至1亿5000万这些银行现在已经整合，而银行系统的加强吸引了很多来自国外的投资。英国的巴克莱银行准备投资5亿。渣打银行已经投资了1亿4000万。我还可以举很多例子。在这里说的都是美元，这些资金都注入到我们的银行系统
en:So, huge things in construction, real estate,mortgage markets. Financial services:we had 89 banks. Too many not doing their real business.We consolidated them from 89 to 25 banks by requiringthat they increase their capital — share capital.And it went from about 25 million dollars to 150 million dollars.The banks — these banks are now consolidated, and that strengtheningof the banking system has attracted a lot of investment from outside.Barclays Bank of the U.K. is bringing in 500 million.Standard Chartered has brought in 140 million.And I can go on. Dollars, on and on, into the system.
时间：14:17
zh-cn:我们在保险业也实施了同样的策略因此，金融服务业也是充满商机的。在很多非洲国家，旅游业也有很多的发展机会。东非的野生动物，大象等等为很多人所知。但是用一个可以真正使人们获益的方式来管理旅游业是非常重要的。
en:We are doing the same with the insurance sector.So in financial services, a great deal of opportunity.In tourism, in many African countries, a great opportunity.And that&#39;s what many people know East Africa for:the wildlife, the elephants, and so on.But managing the tourism market in a waythat can really benefit the people is very important.
时间：14:41
zh-cn:那么我到底想要表达的是什么呢？我想要告诉大家在这个大陆上，出现了一股新的风潮。自2000年以来，在这股新的民主开放风潮的影响下超过三分之二的非洲国家举行了多党派的民主选举。并不是所有的这些选举都是，或将是完美的但这一趋势很明显。我想告诉大家的是，从三年前开始这个大洲的平均增长率已经从每年2.5%升至约5%这样的表现比很多经济合作与发展组织的成员国要好所以说，这些改变是很明显的。
en:So what am I trying to say? I&#39;m trying to tell youthat there&#39;s a new wave on the continent.A new wave of openness and democratization in which, since 2000,more than two-thirds of African countries have hadmulti-party democratic elections.Not all of them have been perfect, or will be,but the trend is very clear.I&#39;m trying to tell you that since the past three years,the average rate of growth on the continent has movedfrom about 2.5 percent to about five percent per annum.This is better than the performance of many OECD countries.So it&#39;s clear that things are changing.
时间：15:22
zh-cn:区内的冲突在减少从10年前的12起冲突下降到现在的3,4起。当然，其中最严重的是发生在达尔富尔的冲突。而且，大家知道，会有邻里效应，也就是说如果洲内的某一地区发生了什么事情似乎整个大洲都会受到影响。但大家要知道，这是一个大洲一个包含了众多国家的大洲，而不是一个国家。如果区内的冲突减少至3,4起那就意味着在那些充满机会的稳定的，成长中的，令人兴奋的经济领域里有很多投资的机会。对于这样的投资，我只想说明一点。
en:Conflicts are down on the continent;from about 12 conflicts a decade ago,we are down to three or four conflicts —one of the most terrible, of course, of which is Darfur.And, you know, you have the neighborhood effect whereif something is going on in one part of the continent,it looks like the entire continent is affected.But you should know that this continent is not —is a continent of many countries, not one country.And if we are down to three or four conflicts,it means that there are plenty of opportunities to investin stable, growing, exciting economieswhere there&#39;s plenty of opportunity.And I want to just make one point about this investment.
时间：16:10
zh-cn:现在，帮助非洲人的最好的方法就是帮助他们自己站起来。而要做到这一点，最好的方法就是创造工作岗位。这并不是说在对抗疟疾和拯救儿童的性命投入是不必的。这并不是我要说的。这没有任何问题。但想象一下这对一个家庭的影响：如果父母能够有工作保证他们的孩子能够上学他们可以自行购买药物以对抗疾病。♫如果你的投资能够在让你自己赚钱的同时还能创造工作岗位，帮助人们能够自力更生难道这不是一个了不起的机会吗？难道不应该这么做吗？同时我还想说的是，在这个大陆上一些最值得投资的人就是当地的女性。（鼓掌）
en:The best way to help Africans todayis to help them to stand on their own feet.And the best way to do that is by helping create jobs.There&#39;s no issue with fighting malaria and putting money in thatand saving children&#39;s lives. That&#39;s not what I&#39;m saying. That is fine.But imagine the impact on a family: if the parents can be employedand make sure that their children go to school,that they can buy the drugs to fight the disease themselves.If we can invest in places where you yourselves make moneywhilst creating jobs and helping people stand on their own feet,isn&#39;t that a wonderful opportunity? Isn&#39;t that the way to go?And I want to say that some of the best people to invest inon the continent are the women.(Applause)
时间：17:06
zh-cn:我这里有一张光盘。很抱歉我没有按时完成我的演说。否则，我很希望大家能够看一下这里面的内容。光盘的题目是：“敞开商业大门的非洲”。这是今年赢得了一项最佳纪录片奖项的录像。大家要知道拍这个片子的女士即将前往坦桑尼亚，他们六月份会在那里开展活动。但这个片子向大家展现了非洲人，尤其是非洲的女性，他们冲破重重困难建立起自己的事业，其中一些还是世界级的企业。
en:I have a CD here. I&#39;m sorry that I didn&#39;t say anything on time.Otherwise, I would have liked you to have seen this.It says, &quot;Africa: Open for Business.&quot;And this is a video that has actually won an awardas the best documentary of the year.Understand that the woman who made itis going to be in Tanzania, where they&#39;re having the session in June.But it shows you Africans, and particularly African women, whoagainst all odds have developed businesses, some of them world-class.
时间：17:40
zh-cn:片子里的其中一位女性，Adenike Ogunlesi，她将制作童装——刚开始只当作兴趣的一件事发展成为一门生意。她将我们大家都有的一些非洲的原料与来自其他地方的原料混合在一起。也就是说，她会用灯芯绒做一条工作裤并将非洲的原料融入其中。非常有创意的设计她的生意还一度发展到接到沃尔玛的订单（笑）订单数量是1万条这向大家证明了，我们也有拥有实干能力的人。
en:One of the women in this video, Adenike Ogunlesi,making children&#39;s clothes —which she started as a hobby and grew into a business.Mixing African materials, such as we have,with materials from elsewhere.So, she&#39;ll make a little pair of dungarees with corduroys,with African material mixed in. Very creative designs,has reached a stage where she even had an order from Wal-Mart.(Laughter)For 10,000 pieces.So that shows you that we have people who are capable of doing.
时间：18:19
zh-cn:而这里的女性都是勤劳，专注，努力工作的。我可以接着举例：在卢旺达的Beatrice Gakuba做起了鲜花生意现在，她的鲜花被出口到荷兰，每天早上在阿姆斯特丹的鲜花市场上被拍卖她还雇用了200个人跟她一起工作。然而，很多这样的人缺乏资金去扩充他们的生意，因为在我们的国家外，没有人会相信我们可以做到这些。没有人会从市场的角度来思考。没有人会想到这里会有机会。但我站在这里，就是要告诉那些错过了现在这班船的人他们以后再也没有这样的机会了。
en:And the women are diligent. They are focused; they work hard.I could go on giving examples:Beatrice Gakuba of Rwanda, who opened up a flower businessand is now exporting to the Dutch auction in Amsterdam each morningand is employing 200 other women and men to work with her.However, many of these are starved for capital to expand,because nobody believes outside of our countriesthat we can do what is necessary. Nobody thinks in terms of a market.Nobody thinks there&#39;s opportunity.But I&#39;m standing here saying that those who miss the boat now,will miss it forever.
时间：19:01
zh-cn:如果你想要到非洲，就考虑一下在这里投资吧。想想这个世界上像Beatrice,像Adenike的这些人他们在做着一些不可思议的事情，这些事情将他们带入到全球经济，与此同时又能保证他们的同胞有工作；而这些受雇佣的人家里的孩子就能接受教育，因为他们的父母有足够的收入。
en:So if you want to be in Africa, think about investing.Think about the Beatrices, think about the Adenikes of this world,who are doing incredible things, that are bringing theminto the global economy, whilst at the same time making surethat their fellow men and women are employed,and that the children in those households get educatedbecause their parents are earning adequate income.
时间：19:29
zh-cn:所以，我邀请大家来发掘这些机会。当你去坦桑尼亚的时候，请认真聆听我肯定你会听说那里有各种各样的机会让你参与到对这个大洲对这里的人们，对你自己有利的事情中。
en:So I invite you to explore the opportunities.When you go to Tanzania, listen carefully,because I&#39;m sure you will hear of the various openings that there will befor you to get involved in something that will do goodfor the continent, for the people and for yourselves.
时间：19:52
zh-cn:非常感谢大家。掌声
en:Thank you very much.(Applause)
