时间： 0:11
zh-cn:当你向一位国家元首问问题的时候是很奇妙的，“你们国家最珍贵的资源是什么？”他们不会第一时间回答是儿童。但是当你说是儿童时，他们几乎会立刻认同你的说法。
en:It&#39;s amazing, when you meet a head of state and you say,&quot;What is your most precious natural resource?&quot; —they will not say children at first.And then when you say children,they will pretty quickly agree with you.
时间： 0:30
zh-cn:（录像）：今天，我们将和哥伦比亚的国防部长一起出游，他是军队和警力部门的负责人，而且今天，我们将会向儿童们发放500部手提电脑，他们生活在一个没有电视，也没有电话的，并且与世隔绝的环境里生活了长达40年。
en:(Video): We&#39;re traveling today withthe Minister of Defense of Colombia,head of the army and the head of the police,and we&#39;re dropping off 650 laptopstoday to childrenwho have no television, no telephoneand have been in a communitycut off from the rest of the worldfor the past 40 years.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:将手提电脑发放到这个区域的重要性是在于那些因哥伦比亚武装革命力量而被隔离的儿童们联系起来，40年前开始的游击队已从一场政治运动堕落为一场毒品运动。现时世界上有十亿儿童，他们中的一半都没有电力资源无论是在学校还是在家。并且在某些国家——如阿富汗——75%的小女孩都不会去上学。我所指的不是她们被学校退学而是在她们三、四年级的时候——她们根本没去上学。
en:The importance of delivering laptops to this regionis connecting kids who have otherwise been unconnectedbecause of the FARC,the guerrillas that started off 40 years agoas a political movement and then became a drug movement.There are one billion children in the world,and 50 percent of them don&#39;t have electricityat home or at school.And in some countries — let me pick Afghanistan —75 percent of the little girls don&#39;t go to school.And I don&#39;t mean that they drop out of schoolin the third or fourth grade — they don&#39;t go.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:所以这三年来自从我在TED里演讲并展示一件产品，它从一个想法转变成一台真正的手提电脑。现在，我们已将五十万台手提电脑发放到(世界各地的）儿童手上。我们还拥有二十五万台手提电脑正准备运送到儿童的手上，以及二十五万台手提电脑正被订购。那么，大概算来，这里共有一百万台手提电脑。这比我预测的要少——我的预计是三百万到一千万之间——不过这仍是一个很巨大的数字。
en:So in the three yearssince I talked at TED and showed a prototype,it&#39;s gone from an ideato a real laptop.We have half a million laptops todayin the hands of children.We have about a quarter of a million in transitto those and other children,and then there are another quarter of a million morethat are being ordered at this moment.So, in rough numbers, there are a million laptops.That&#39;s smaller than I predicted —I predicted three to 10 million —but is still a very large number.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:在哥伦比亚，我们大概已发放了三千台手提电脑。而且和我们合作的是国防部，而不是教育部，因为这项计划被看做是一个战略防御问题为了解放这些完全被隔离的区域，而这些人在长达轰炸，绑架，以及刺杀中存活下来了。
en:In Colombia, we have about 3,000 laptops.It&#39;s the Minister of Defense with whom we&#39;re working,not the Minister of Education, because it is seen asa strategic defense issuein the sense of liberating these zonesthat had been completely closed off,in which the people who had been causing, if you will,40 years&#39; worth of bombings and kidnappingsand assassinations lived.
时间： 2:26
zh-cn:然后突然地，这群儿童被手提电脑联系起来。他们已超越了上一代。这种变化是绝对具有纪念意义的，因为这不仅仅是将这个地区开放，而是将整个地区与世界联系起来了。因此，他们将会进行交通建设，他们将会有电话，而且他们还会拥有电视。但是这群6到12岁的孩子却在用西班牙语和当地语言上网，所以这群孩子是被资讯伴随着长大，并且他们打开了一扇通向世界的门窗。在此之前，他们是被封闭的。
en:And suddenly,the kids have connected laptops.They&#39;ve leapfrogged.The change is absolutely monumental,because it&#39;s not just opening it up,but it&#39;s opening it up to the rest of the world.So yes, they&#39;re building roads, yes, they&#39;re putting in telephone,yes, there will be television.But the kids six to 12 years oldare surfing the Internet in Spanish and in local languages,so the children grow upwith access to information,with a window into the rest of the world.Before, they were closed off.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:而有趣的是，在一些其他的国家，这项行动会被财政部长看做是财富增长的动力。而这股动力将会在二十年后才会看到结果。正如你所知，这不会在一年内发生，但这将是一件具有重大经济意义和文化意义的改变，一件通过儿童发生的变化。现在已有31个国家参与这项计划，就乌拉圭而言，已有一半的儿童拥有手提电脑，并且在2009年的中旬时，乌拉圭的每位儿童都将会拥有手提电脑——一台小巧碧绿的手提电脑。
en:Interestingly enough, in other countries,it will be the Minister of Finance who sees itas an engine of economic growth.And that engine is going to see the results in 20 years.It&#39;s not going to happen, you know, in one year,but it&#39;s an important, deeply economicand cultural changethat happens through children.Thirty-one countries in total are involved,and in the case of Uruguay,half the children already have them,and by the middle of 2009,every single child in Uruguay will have a laptop —a little green laptop.
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:现在已得到的一些结果是什么？其中的一些结果是在每个国家都能观测到的包括老师都说他们从来没有如此热爱教学，以及热爱阅读这些都是由第三方统计的结果——不是我们——明显飙升。然而我们所见的最重要的事是儿童在教导他们的父母。他们有笔记电脑。他们将它们带回家。所以当我和三位在当地学校上学的孩子见面时，这个地方离波哥大有一天的路程，其中一位孩子带来他的母亲。而她带她母亲来的原因是她这位六岁大的儿童正在教她妈妈如何读写。她妈妈从没有上过小学。这是一个怎样的倒置，并且也是一个奇妙的例子体现了孩子是如何作为变化的推动者。
en:Now what are some of the results?Some of the resultsthat go across every single countryinclude teachers sayingthey have never loved teaching so much,and reading comprehensionmeasured by third parties — not by us — skyrockets.Probably the most important thing we seeis children teaching parents.They own the laptops. They take them home.And so when I met with three children from the schools,who had traveled all day to come to Bogota,one of the three children brought her mother.And the reason she brought her motheris that this six-year-old childhad been teaching her motherhow to read and write.Her mother had not gone to primary school.And this is such an inversion,and such a wonderful exampleof children being the agents of change.
时间： 4:36
zh-cn:因此现在，作为结尾，人们问道，为什么用手提电脑？手提电脑是奢侈品；就譬如给予他们iPod。不。你们想要给予手提电脑的原因是教育，而不是手提电脑本身。这是教育项目，而不是手提电脑项目。他们需要学会学习。然后，就想象一下——他们可以拥有，譬如说，一百本书。在一个村庄里，有一百台手提电脑，而且每台电脑里都有不同套的一百本书，那么这个村庄的将会瞬间拥有一万本书。你和我在小学的时候都没有一万本书。
en:So now, in closing, people say,now why laptops?Laptops are a luxury; it&#39;s like giving them iPods. No.The reason you want laptopsis that the word is education, not laptop.This is an education project, not a laptop project.They need to learn learning. And then, just think —they can have, let&#39;s say, 100 books.In a village, you have 100 laptops,each with a different set of 100 books,and so that village suddenly has 10,000 books.You and I didn&#39;t have 10,000 books when we went to primary school.
时间： 5:09
zh-cn:有时学校就在一棵树底下，并且很多老师都只有小学五年级的受教育水平，因此你需要创建一个互相学习的合作模型，而不仅仅是建立更多所学校以及培训更多的教师，但这也是你无论如何都要做的。我们再次发起了“送一台，买一台”运动。去年，我们发起的“送一台，买一台”运动，并且创造了十万台手提电脑使我们可以将之免费发放出去。并且作为一台零美元的手提电脑，我们可以将之送到一些完全无法负担的国家去。这就是我们所做的。我们去了海地，去了卢旺达，以及阿富汗，还有埃塞俄比亚和蒙古。一些没有市场的地方，用着饱和，连接性，低龄化等原则来看待。而我们可以用之产生一些巨大的数字。
en:Sometimes school is under a tree,or in many cases, the teacher has only a fifth-grade education,so you need a collaborative model of learning,not just building more schools and training more teachers,which you have to do anyway.So we&#39;re once again doing &quot;Give One, Get One.&quot;Last year, we ran a &quot;Give One, Get One&quot; program,and it generated over 100,000 laptopsthat we were then able to give free.And by being a zero-dollar laptop,we can go to countries that can&#39;t afford it at all.And that&#39;s what we did. We went to Haiti,we went to Rwanda, Afghanistan,Ethiopia, Mongolia.Places that are not markets,seeding it with the principles ofsaturation, connectivity, low ages, etc.And then we can actually roll out large numbers.
时间： 5:59
zh-cn:因此让我们这样来想：就好像为愚昧无知接种疫苗一样。将手提电脑看作一种疫苗。你不是为一小部分个体接种疫苗。而是为整个群体接种疫苗。
en:So think of it this way:think of it as inoculating childrenagainst ignorance.And think of the laptop as a vaccine.You don&#39;t vaccinate a few children.You vaccinate all the children in an area.
