时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在这个长长的，有点马拉松似的演讲里，我会分成三块来讲：首先是给出一个很多的例子来说明未来与电脑打交道会更加有趣并且真正解决人机交互的质量问题。然后将会有一些简单的设计质量，还有一些品质包括智能交互。第二部分仅仅是新技术的例子：新媒体会塑成那种风格。而且，我会非常快速的带大家过一遍这些。最后我会给大家讲一些案例，我收集的一些案例，我会尽我努力来说明一些娱乐界的未来案例。人们坚信这些东西，我来分享给你们那就是在未来我们会用电视屏幕，或者他们其它的设备来看电子书。但你想想，“上帝呀，用电视来看图片是多么糟的一个场景呀”其实不必这么糟。这是一个电视的幻灯片。并且它是预处理成为交互式的电视媒体，看起来绝对棒。
en:In this rather long sort of marathon presentation,I&#39;ve tried to break it up into three parts:the first being a whole lot of examples on how it can bea little bit more pleasurable to deal with a computerand really address the qualities of the human interface.And these will be some simple design qualitiesand they will also be some qualities of, if you will,the intelligence of interaction.Then the second part will really just be examples of new technologies —new media falling very much into that mold.Again, I will go through them as fast as possible.And then the last one will be some examplesI&#39;ve been able to collect, which I thinkillustrate this at least as best I can, in the world of entertainment.People have this belief — and I share most of it —that we will be using the TV screens or their equivalentsfor electronic books of the future. But then you think,&quot;My God! What a terrible image you get when you look at still pictures on TV.&quot;Well, it doesn&#39;t have to be terrible.And that is a slide taken from a TV setand it was pre-processed to be very sympathetic to the TV medium,and it absolutely looks beautiful.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:发生了什么事？ 为什么人们卷进来这个混乱？你现在在这里，突然坐在一台个人电脑前，还有视频文字，电子文本系统，在屏幕上还看到其它的让你吃惊的东西？你必须记得，电视是被设计适于在八倍于屏幕尺寸的距离上观看。（屏幕尺寸是指显示器屏幕对角线的长度）所以在观看13英寸，19英寸等大小的电视时所以你应该拿这些屏幕尺寸乘以8,那才是你应该坐在电视机前的距离。现在，突然大家要坐在电脑屏幕前面18英寸的地方并且所有的东西都不是最初的设计者所期待的，突然投射到你的脸上。荫罩式，逐行扫描，所有的那些。并且人们会轻松的解决它们。实事上，会有办法摆脱它们。实际上，有别的办法来显示超美的图片。刚才我会在这里谈一点显示技术。
en:Well, what&#39;s happened? How did people get into this mess?Where you are now, all of a sudden,sitting in front of personal computersand video text — teletext systems,and somewhat horrified by what you see on the screen?Well, you have to remember that TV was designedto be looked at eight times the distance of the diagonal.So you get a 13-inch, 19-inch, whatever, TV,and then you should multiply that by eightand that&#39;s the distance you should sit away from the TV set.Now we&#39;ve put people 18 inches in front of a TV,and all the artifacts that none of the original designers expected to be seen,all of a sudden, are staring you in the face:the shadow mask, the scan lines, all of that.And they can be treated very easily;there are actually ways of getting rid of them,there are actually ways of just making absolutely beautiful pictures.I&#39;m talking here a little bit about display technologies.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:让我来告诉你如何来输入信息。我最喜欢的例子一直是手指操作.我对触摸感应显示非常有兴趣.顶尖科技, 高端触控. 你难道不想说点什么吗?这肯定是一个非常非常重要的输入媒介.很多人认为对于输入给显示系统来说手指的电极解析度很低.事实上, 他们错了. 这是一个非常非常高解析度的输入媒介.你只需要做两次. 你需要接触屏幕,然后轻轻的旋转你的手指.之后你可以轻松准确的移动指针.并且你在市场上看到这些系统的时候,他们只有一小部分发光二极管(LED), 解析度相当低 —它们的存在至少比什么都没有要好.但在某种程序上来说有一点没赶上.也就是说, 手指是非常非常高解析度的输入媒体.那还有什么其他的优势呢?优点之一是,你不必去学习它.人们没有意识到这有多重要,不需要去学习用你的手指去使用它们.
en:Let me talk about how you might input information.And my favorite example is always fingers.I&#39;m very interested in touch-sensitive displays.High-tech, high-touch. Isn&#39;t that what some of you said?It&#39;s certainly a very important medium for input,and a lot of people think that fingers are a very low-resolutionsort of stylus for inputting to a display.In fact, they&#39;re not: it&#39;s really a very, very high-resolution input medium —you have to just do it twice, you have to touch the screenand then rotate your finger slightly —and you can move a cursor with great accuracy.And so when you see on the market these systemsthat have just a few light emitting diodes on the side and are very low resolution,it&#39;s nice that they exist because it still is better than nothing.But it, in some sense, misses the point:namely, that fingers are a very, very high-resolution input medium.Now, what are some of the other advantages?Well, the one advantage is that you don&#39;t have to pick them up,and people don&#39;t realize how important that is —not having to pick up your fingers to use them. (Laughter)
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:你想一想苹果电脑的鼠标 —我不想批评这款鼠标太多 —但当你打字的时候,你还想输入些其它东西,首先你得先摸到鼠标.你必须先停下来, 也许不是很辛苦的停顿,但你得先找到鼠标,然后晃一晃在屏幕上找到光标.然后你终于找到光标的位置,之后你又要移动光标,然后呯一下,你点一下鼠标.用这四个分解步骤来对比打字后用鼠标和打字后只用一个动作,或一个半动作, 看你怎么计数了.然后, 我在这里要说明的是这一类的问题是新的电脑系统和娱乐系统以及教育系统的设计者的问题,从界面质量的角度来考虑.
en:When you think for a second of the mouse on Macintosh —and I will not criticize the mouse too much —when you&#39;re typing — what you have — you want to now put something —first of all, you&#39;ve got to find the mouse.You have to probably stop. Maybe not come to a grinding halt,but you&#39;ve got to sort of find that mouse. Then you find the mouse,and you&#39;re going to have to wiggle it a little bitto see where the cursor is on the screen.And then when you finally see where it is,then you&#39;ve got to move it to get the cursor over there,and then — &quot;Bang&quot; — you&#39;ve got to hit a button or do whatever.That&#39;s four separate steps versus typing and then touchingand typing and just doing it all in one motion —or one-and-a-half, depending on how you want to count.Again, what I&#39;m trying to do is just illustratethe kinds of problems that I think face the designersof new computer systems and entertainment systemsand educational systemsfrom the perspective of the quality of that interface.
时间： 4:49
zh-cn:另一个好处,当然,使用你的十个手指.然而我们一直不知道技术上怎么实现.所以这是一个假的幻灯片.我们一直没有实现过用十个手指,但显然你肯定可以做某些事情,多点触控输入, 有着强大的吸引力.我们意外发现的实现的是,也是计算机领域的典型,当你无法摆脱一个软件缺陷(bug)的时候,你就把它改造成一个功能.然后也许 — (笑声)— 也许鼠标的出现就是一种缺陷(bug)但在这里,这个缺陷(bug)是基于我们的触控显示技术.我们希望能画画,你知道,在屏幕上移动你的手指然后输入连续的点.并且那是你的手指与屏幕产生的压力 —如果是以玻璃材料的, 通常是这种.
en:And another advantage, of course, of using fingers is you have 10 of them.And we have never known how to do this technically,so this slide is a fake slide.We never succeeded in using ten fingers,but there are certain things you can do, obviously,with more than one-finger input, which is rather fascinating.What we did stumble across was something ...Again, which is typical of the computer field,is when you have a bug that you can&#39;t get rid of you turn it into a feature.And maybe ... (Laughter)maybe a mouse is a new kind of bug.But the bug in our case was in touch-sensitive displays:we wanted to be able to draw — you know, rub your fingeracross the screen to input continuous points —and there was just too much frictioncreated between your finger and the glass —if glass was the substrate, which it usually is.
时间： 5:46
zh-cn:我们发现其实还有一个功能你可以打造一个压力感应的显示器.当你用手指触摸的时候,你实际上可以在屏幕上任何地方按压,然后产生一定的数值.我看看能不能加载另外一张盘片快速给你做个演示.好了, 现在想像一个屏幕不仅仅是触摸感应,它还带压力感应.压力感应会检查到屏幕面板受到的压力.X轴,Y轴和Z轴, 至少有一个方向.我们整不明白怎么才能到其它的方向.让我拿掉这个幻灯片.我们看看这个怎么样.好, 这是压力感应显示系统的操作.这个人只是在按屏幕,但这是非常有趣的部分.
en:So we found that that actually was a featurein the sense you could build a pressure-sensitive display.And when you touch it with your finger,you can actually, then, introduce all the forces on the face of that screen,and that actually has a certain amount of value.Let me see if I can load another discand show you, quickly, an example.Now, imagine a screen, which is not only touch-sensitive now,it&#39;s pressure-sensitive.And it&#39;s pressure-sensitive to the forces both in the plane of the screen —X, Y, and Z at least in one direction;we couldn&#39;t figure out how to come in the other direction.But let me get rid of the slide,and let&#39;s see if this comes on.OK. So there is the pressure-sensitive display in operation.The person&#39;s just, if you will, pushing on the screen to make a curve.But this is the interesting part.
时间： 6:51
zh-cn:好了,现在我们暂停一下因为这段视频做的很差.而这个显示系统是6年前的产口,当我们从一间房子挪到另一间房子的时候一个傻大个坐在了上面, 把它做坏了.所以我们只剩下这段录像了.但是,想像一下,如果那个屏幕上有很多的物体.并且人们如果触摸一个物体,N个中的一个, 就像他刚做的一样. 然后推一下.现在想像一个程序里面的对象有重的有轻的.一个铁砧在毛茸茸的地毯上,(很难推动)另一个是一个乒乓球在玻璃上.当你推铁砧的时候,你必须用力推才能挪动它到屏幕另一端.然而,你只需要轻轻的碰一下乒乓球,它就会快速的滑过屏幕.你可以做的是 — 哎呀, 我按错了—你可以做的是, 反馈用户对物理属性的感觉.而且,他们也不必有重量.他们可以是一个将军调动部队一样,指挥航空母舰母区别于调度小船.本来就是嘛, 他们拨款一定有原因.
en:I want to stop it for a secondbecause the movie is very badly made.And the particular display was built about six years ago,and when we moved from one room to another room,a rather large person sat on it and it got destroyed.So all we have is this record. (Laughter)But imagine that screen having lots of objects on itand the person has touched an object —one of N — like he did there, and then pushed on it.Now, imagine a programwhere some of those objects are physically heavy and some are light:one is an anvil on a fuzzy rugand the other one is a ping-pong ball on a sheet of glass.And when you touch it, you have to really push very hardto move that anvil across the screen,and yet you touch the ping-pong ball very lightlyand it just scoots across the screen.And what you can do — oops, I didn&#39;t mean to do that —what you can do is actually feed back to the userthe feeling of the physical properties.So again, they don&#39;t have to be weight;they could be a general trying to move troops,and he&#39;s got to move an aircraft carrier versus a little boat.In fact, they funded it for that very reason.
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:21
zh-cn:整体的概念只有一个就是界面.物理属性都存在传感器里 —在这个演示中, 这是压力和触摸 —允许你去展示一些你从来没有展示过的东西.所以, 如果不是仅仅看中质量,或者你希望要那种界面的奢望.但它实际上看中的是想法和创意允许你去展示一些你从来没有展示过的东西的想法和创意.我想转移到另外一个展示,一个不同的类型,我们正尝试使用计算机和视频光盘技术来组装出一种新的书.这个创意来自己于你将带着这本书到处走,如果你希望, 它会变成现实.融入并成为你生活的一部分.我们太习惯于独白.制片人, 例如, 是独白制作专家.你可以制作一个有着很好开头,中间和结尾的电影.艺术的某种意识就是这样.然后你会说:&quot;你知道,那有一个机会&quot;来制作富有争议的电影. &quot;好吧,那意味着什么?&quot;这是一种对整个行业的蚕食以及媒体的假定.所以,写书也是一样的道理.
en:The whole notion, then, is one that at the interfacethere are physical properties in that transducer —in this case it&#39;s pressure and touches —that allow you to present things to the user that you could never present before.So it&#39;s not simply looking at the quality or, if you will, the luxury of that interface,but it&#39;s actually looking at the ideaof presenting things that previously couldn&#39;t be presented before.I want to move on to another example,which is one of a different sort, where we&#39;re trying to use computerand video disc technology now to come up with a new kind of book.Here, the idea is that you&#39;re going to take this book,if you will, and it&#39;s going to come alive.You&#39;re going to sort of breathe life into it.We are so used to doing monologues.Filmmakers, for example, are the experts in monologue making:you make a film and it has a well-formed beginning, middle and end,and in some sense the art of it is that.And you then say, &quot;There&#39;s an opportunityfor making conversational movies.&quot; Well, what does that mean?And it sort of nibbles at the core of the whole professionand all the assumptions of that medium.So, book writing is the same thing.
时间： 9:45
zh-cn:所以,我会快速向你展示一种新书.所有的东西都在里面,但你必须明确一些事情在心中.首先是, 这种书了解它自己.好. 电影的每一帧都有它自己的信息,所以你知道 — 或者至少有电脑可读的信息在媒介里这不仅是一个静态的电影框架.还有一件事你必须知道,它是一个随机访问的媒介,你可以扩展,定制和伸缩.在这里,我最喜欢的一个例子是个食谱,the Larousse Gastronomique(烹饪艺术著作)我觉得我用这个例子太多次了,但它是一个特别好的例子, 因为它有一个经典的结尾这个百科全书一样的食谱告诉你如何做菜,例如做企鹅,然后你读到食谱的最后它说,&quot;一直煮到煮好.&quot;这就是, 如果你希望, 最上面的绿色一栏,没有太多意义. 但你也许需要详细给我讲对于很多不是专家的人来说,&quot;在380度的温度下煮45分钟.&quot;然后对一个菜鸟来说,你需要再详细一些&quot;打开烤箱, 预热, 等待有光出现,打开门, 不要让它打开太久,把企鹅放进去,然后关上门,&quot; 无论什么.有一种方法比你一点点的说更加详细.
en:What I&#39;ll show you very quickly is a new kind of bookwhere it is mixed now with ... all sorts of things live in there,but you have to keep a few things in mind.One is that this book knows about itself.Each frame of the movie has information about itself.So it knows, or at least there is computer-readable informationin the medium itself. It&#39;s just not a static movie frame.That&#39;s one thing. The other is that you have to realizethat it is a random access medium,and you can, in fact, branch and expand and elaborate and shrink.And here — again, my favorite example — is the cookbook,the &quot;Larousse Gastronomique.&quot;And I think I use the example all too often,but it&#39;s a great one because there is a classic ending in that littleencyclopedia-style cookbook that tells you how to do something like penguin,and you get to the end of the recipe and it says, &quot;Cook until done.&quot;Now, that would be, if you will, the top green track,which doesn&#39;t mean too much. But you might have to elaborate for meor for somebody who isn&#39;t an expert, and say,&quot;Cook at 380 degrees for 45 minutes.&quot;And then for a real beginner, you would go down even furtherand elaborate more — say, &quot;Open the oven, preheat, wait for the light to go out,open the door, don&#39;t leave it open too long,put the penguin in and shut the door ...&quot; (Laughter) whatever.And that&#39;s a much more elaborate one than you dribble back.
时间：11:18
zh-cn:那就是用一种随机访问方法.这种方法就是你想通过不同的方法解释一件事情.如果你在教室的环境下并且问别人一个问题,你最后要做的是重复你刚刚说过的话.你试图用另外一种方法来表达相同的事情,或者如果你知道这个学生的认知风格,你可能会用一种你认为针对这个学生比较好的表达方式.这就是你运用的所有的技巧 —另外, 这是不同的分支.所以,我带给你的是一本有点无聊的书,但有时你不得不看这些无聊的书因为赞助商基本对小说和娱乐没什么兴趣.这本书在论如何修理一个变速器.现在,我甚至都不清楚变速器的年份.我现在快速给你展示一下, 然后我们继续.
en:That&#39;s one kind of use of random access.And the other is where you want to explain the same thing in different ways.If you&#39;re in a classroom situation and somebody asks a question,the last thing you do is repeat what you just said.You try and think of a different way of saying the same thing,or if you know the particular student and that student&#39;s cognitive style,then you might say it in a way that you thinkwould have a good impedance match with that student.There are all sorts of techniques you will use —and again, this is a different kind of branching.So, what I will show you is ... it&#39;s a rather boring book,but I&#39;m afraid sometimes you have to do boring booksbecause your sponsors aren&#39;t necessarily interested in fictionand entertainment. And this is a book on how to repair a transmission.Now, I don&#39;t even know what vintage the transmission is,but let me just show you very quickly some of it, and we&#39;ll move on.
时间：12:32
zh-cn:(视频)现在, 在这个目录下,对吧?仅仅是一个变速器的图片,你的手指滑过变速器.它会高亮显示不同的部分.
en:(Video) Narrator: And continue to get descriptions for each of these chapters.Nicholas Negroponte: Now, this is his table of contents.Just a picture of the transmission, and as you rub your finger across the transmissionit highlights the various parts.
时间：12:44
zh-cn:讲述人: 当我找到我想看的那章时,我只需要触摸文字,系统会自动页面排版.红色的单词或句式是技术术语,所以我可以通过触摸单词来得到不同的定义并且定义显示后, 还会附加上插图.
en:Narrator: When I find a chapter that I want to see,I just touch the text and the system will format pages for me to read.The words or phrases that are lit up in red are glossary words,so I can get a different definition by just touching the word,and the definition appears, superimposed over the illustration.
时间：13:32
zh-cn:尼古拉斯·尼葛洛庞帝: 这是关于机油盘 滤油器和其它的东西.这个相当重要,因为 —
en:NN: This is about the oil pan, or the oil filter and all that.This is relatively important because it sets the page ...
时间：13:47
zh-cn:讲述人: 这是另外的一个术语表的页面举例,红色的高亮部分.我可以触摸一个单词来了解到他们的意思,定义会显示在插图的角上.我可以回到插图, 但在这个例子中,这不是一个单独的框架.但实际上这个影片是一个人进行维修也就是文字所描述的东西.头上的两个滑轨是观看电影的速度控制,可以调节不同的速度, 快进或后退.这个电影可以全屏播放.我可以直接到开头,全速播放这个电影.这是另一个一步一步的流程,仅在这个例子中 —
en:Narrator: This is another example of a page with glossary wordshighlighted in red.I can get a definition of these words just by touching them,and the definition will appear in the illustration corner.I can get back to the illustration, but in this case it&#39;s not a single frame,but it&#39;s actually a movie of someone coming into the frame and doing the repairthat&#39;s described in the text.The two-headed slider is a speed control that allows me to watch the movieat various speeds, in forward or reverse.And the movie is displayed as a full frame movie.I can go back to the beginning ... and play the movie at full speed.Here&#39;s another step-by-step procedure, only in this case —
时间：14:50
zh-cn:尼古拉斯: 你看, 每个人都听说过声音同步的电影.这个是文字同步的电影. 所以,在播放电影时, 文字会高亮显示,我们也可以通过高亮文字来观看电影.(视频): ... 不够爽不够爽. 前边的支架,最好.不要太松, 如果太松, 你就会有搞的一团糟.我怀疑你们甚至不明白这种专业语言.
en:NN: Okay, this movie is ... Everybody&#39;s heard of sound-sync movies —this is text-sync movies, so as the movie plays, the text gets highlighted.We highlight the text as we go through the movie.Repairman: ... Not too far out. Front poles, preferably.Don&#39;t loosen them too far. If you loosen them too far, you&#39;ll have a big mess.NN: I suspect that some of you might not even understand that language.
时间：15:17
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间：15:22
zh-cn:好. 我现在讲到第三部分,也是最后一部分.我会在这部分尝试给你几个例子，可能会直接关联到现在的娱乐界。当然，好的教育就是一种好的娱乐。我的第一个例子来自于最近的一个实验。我们在塞内加尔(Senegal)做过的一个实验。我们尝试用个人电脑作为教学媒介，但不是用于教师专用机器。我是指，整个想法是拿电脑作为一种乐器，这是个完全不同的规则。孩子当老师，如果你愿意，机器当作学生。而计算机程序的艺术是一种载体去适当的按照你的思维去思考。但去教小孩子程序语言本身就有点非常离谱。我想快速过一下很少的几张幻灯片，
en:OK. I&#39;m at the third and last part of this,which I said I would make an attempt to at least give you some examplesthat may be more directly related to the world of entertainment.And of course, good education has got to be good entertainment,so my first example will be drawn from a very recent experimentthat we&#39;ve been doing — in this case, in Senegal —where we have tried to use personal computersas a pedagogical medium. But not as teaching machines at all;the whole notion is to use this as an instrumentwhere there is a complete reversal of roles —the child is, if you will, the teacher and the machine is the student —and the art of computer programming is a vehicle that sort ofapproximates thinking about thinking.But teaching kids programming per se is utterly irrelevant.And there are just a few slides I want to go through,
时间：16:24
zh-cn:但我想讲一个故事，就是在以前，在我们没有在任何发展中国家做这个之前—我们现在做了，事实上，我们在三个发展中国家巴基斯坦，哥伦比亚和塞内加尔。我们还在纽约的一些落后的地区去做过。有一个孩子，名字我记不得了，大概七八岁的样子，被诊断为智力残障，不能阅读，甚至连低年级的教室都无法参加。基本没办法上学，虽然身体在学校。但是，在名叫“机房”的地方闲逛。哪里有不多的几台机器。并且学这种专门的，叫做标志（Logo）的语言。学习这个的时候发现超级好玩。这非常有趣，有一天，很偶然的，一些穿着双排钮口上装来自于NIE的访客，过来考察。并且所有正常的小孩子都不在那里，除了这个孩子。
en:but there&#39;s a story I&#39;d like to tell. And that was when,before we did this in any developing countries —we&#39;re doing it, in fact, in three developing countries right now:Pakistan, Colombia and Senegal —we did it in some pretty rough areas of New York City.And one child, whose name I&#39;ve forgotten, was about seven or eight years old,absolutely considered mentally handicapped —couldn&#39;t read, didn&#39;t even make it in the lowest section of the school&#39;s classes —and was pretty much not in school, though physically there.But did hang around the, quote, &quot;computer room,&quot;where there were quite a few computers,and learned this particular language called Logo —and learned it with great ease and found it a lot of fun,it was very interesting. And one day, by chance,some visitors from the NIE came by in their double-breasted suitslooking at this setup, and none of the children who were normally there,except for this one child, were there.
时间：17:34
zh-cn:他说：“我来告诉你他是如何运作的。”然后他们看到了非常美妙的，有创意的标志。然后这个孩子就像是释放了思想，向他们展示了所有的东西，直到他们问到了他无法解释的一些东西，然后他翻翻手册，找出了解释并且敲了一些命令，找到了他们问题的答案。他们非常高兴，后来见到校长的时候，他们其实不是来看电脑机房的，而是来见校长的他们上楼然后说，“你知道，这绝对很了不起”那个孩子，非常清晰地向我们展示了，你知道，甚至去查操作手册来找到他无法解释的问题，这实在是太了不起了，太酷了！
en:He was, and he said, &quot;Let me show you how this works,&quot;and they got an absolutely ingenuous, wonderful description of Logo.And the child was just zipping right through it, showing them all sorts of thingsuntil they asked him how to do something which he couldn&#39;t explainand so he flipped through the manual, found the explanationand typed the command and got it to do what they asked.They were delighted, and by the time it was time to go see the principal,whom they&#39;d actually come to see — not the computer room —they went upstairs and they said,&quot;This is absolutely remarkable!That child was very articulate and showed usand even dealt with the things he couldn&#39;t do automaticallywith that manual. It was just absolutely fantastic.&quot;
时间：18:17
zh-cn:校长说，“你知道，这是个可怕的错误因为这个孩子不能阅读。你明显是被忽悠了，或者你是跟别的学生交谈的。”然后他们都下楼然后那个孩子仍坐在那里，然后他们做了其他的明智的事情—他们问小孩&quot;你能阅读吗？&quot;小孩回答“不能。”然后他们说，“但是等等，你刚刚不是看了操作手册并且你找到了—”然受他回答“哦，但那不是阅读。”他们好奇“好吧,哪什么才是阅读？”他回答“好吧，阅读这些他们给我的垃圾才是阅读。”这是完全的不相关，并且我什么也没得到，对吗？但这里，只有付出一点努力，我得到了很多回报。
en:The principal said, &quot;There&#39;s a dreadful mistake,because that child can&#39;t read.And you obviously have been hoodwinkedor you&#39;ve talked about somebody else.&quot;And they all got up and they all went downstairsand the child was still there. And they did something very intelligent:they asked the child, &quot;Can you read?&quot;And the child said, &quot;No, I can&#39;t.&quot;And then they said, &quot;But wait a minute. Youjust looked through that manual and you found ... &quot;and he said, &quot;Oh, but that&#39;s not reading.&quot;And so they said, &quot;Well, what&#39;s reading then?&quot;He says, &quot;Well, reading is this junk they give me in little books to read.It&#39;s absolutely irrelevant, (Laughter) and I get nothing for it.But here, with a little bit of effort I get a lot of return.&quot;
时间：19:05
zh-cn:并且这对孩子很有意义。这个孩子阅读的很漂亮，并且阅读的非常有效果。 所以它实际上真的有意义。很多轶事和这个故事有着相似的地方，但是，未来计算机教育的关键就是在这里。这对一个孩子意味着什么？有个神话，并且绝对是个神话：我们相信—并且我确定你们中的很多人都相信—学阅读和写作比学口语更难。其实不是的。 但我们认为演讲 — 上帝呀， 小孩子们在某种程度上学会了。但两岁的孩子在做一些平常的练习。三四岁的时候他们说话已经慢慢不错了。然后你到学校开始学习如何阅读。你必须坐到教室里，然后别来教导你，所以它就更困难。 其实，它并没有更困难。事实上，是口语已经赋予给一个孩子更大的价值。孩子可以通过跟你聊天来得到更大的价值。
en:And it really meant something to the child.The child read beautifully, it turned out,and was really very competent. So it actually meant something.And that story has many other anecdotes that are similar,but wow. The key to the future of computers in education is right there,and it is: when does it mean something to a child?There is a myth, and it truly is a myth:we believe — and I&#39;m sure a lot of you believe in this room —that it is harder to read and write than it is to learn how to speak.And it&#39;s not, but we think speech — &quot;My God, little children pick it up somehow,and by the age of two they&#39;re doing a mediocre job,and by three and four they&#39;re speaking reasonably well.And yet you&#39;ve got to go to school to learn how to read,and you have to sit in a classroom and somebody has to teach you.Hence, it must be harder.&quot; Well, it&#39;s not harder.What the truth is is that speaking has great value to a child;the child can get a great deal by talking to you.
时间：20:08
zh-cn:阅读和写作是完全没用的。除了盲从，阅读和写作对孩子没有任何帮助，那会帮助你。所以，发生的事情是，你去学校然后人们说，“你知道吗，相信我，你会喜欢它的然后你去阅读，并且只是读啊读啊”另一方面， 你给一个孩子 — 一个三岁的孩子 — 一台计算机。然后敲一点小命令，然后噗，发生了一些变化。突然之间 — 你也许根本不叫这个是阅读和写作，但在屏幕上读和写一点的东西已经有很巨大的回报了，有着相当多的乐趣。并且事实上，它是一个强大的教学器材。好，在赛纳加尔我们发现传统的教育：120个小孩子，三个人一张桌子。 一个老师，一点粉笔。这个学生是我们一等学生中的一个，并且倚在左边的这个带着粉笔板的女孩。她来了两天—我要给你看一下她写的程序，记住她的发型，好吗？ 然后，这是她写的程序。
en:Reading and writing is utterly useless.There is no reason for a child to read and write except blind faith,and that it&#39;s going to help you. (Laughter)So what happens is you go to school and people say,&quot;Just believe me, you&#39;re going to like it.You&#39;re going to like reading,&quot; and just read and read.On the other hand, you give a kid — a three-year-old kid — a computerand they type a little command and — Poof! — something happens.And all of a sudden ... You may not call that reading and writing,but a certain bit of typing and reading stuff on the screenhas a huge payoff, and it&#39;s a lot of fun.And in fact, it&#39;s a powerful educational instrument.Well, in Senegal we found that this was the traditional classroom:120 kids — three per desk — one teacher, a little bit of chalk.This student was one of our first students,and it&#39;s the girl on the left leaning with her chalkboard,and she came ... within two days —I want to show you the program she wrote,and remember her hairstyle. And that is the program she made.
时间：21:15
zh-cn:这就是对她有意义的一些事情，就是做发型样式，实际上是在两天内完成的，每天一个小时。然后发现，对于她它是多么有意义的东西。但是本质上，她所做的这个小东西，她用了几乎所有学过的几何知识和数学，逻辑和其它的知识。其实，我可以就着这个话题再讲三个小时。我来讲一下最后的一个例子，我最后的例子— 就像我的前同事以样那些同事可以想像它的未来。是的， 不久前它是我们的工作，并且它仍然是我最喜欢的项目，电话会议。并且保留最喜欢的项目的原因是我们被要求做一个电话会议系统时我们有如下的情况：你有五个人在五个不同的地点。他们互相认识对方。你不得不在电话会议里邀请这五个人每个人都需要完全信服其它的四个人必须亲自在场。现在，那足够了，你知道，搞笑的是我们明显的会上当，然后我们还是做了。事实是我们知道人们，我们不得不从迪士尼的历史中拿出一页。我们实际上已经造了人脸形状的阴极射线管显示器（CRT）我们实际上已经造了人脸形状的阴极射线管显示器（CRT）所以，如果我给我们朋友Peter Sprague打电话，我的秘书将把他的头拿出来，带过来然后放在桌子上。
en:That&#39;s what meant something to her, is doing the hair pattern,and actually did it within two days — an hour each day —and found it was, to her,absolutely the most meaningful piece ...But rooted in that, little did she know how much knowledgeshe was acquiring about geometryand just math and logic and all the rest.And again, I could talk for three hours about this subject.I will come to my last example and then quit.And my last example — as some of my former colleagues,whom I see in the room, can imagine what it will be.Yes, it is. It&#39;s our work — that was a while ago,and it still is my favorite project — of teleconferencing.And the reason it remains a favorite projectis that we were asked to do a teleconferencing systemwhere you had the following situation:you had five people at five different sites — they were known people —and you had to have these people in teleconference,such that each one was utterly convincedthat the other four were physically present.Now, that is sufficientlyzany that we would, obviously, jump to the bait, and we did.And the fact that we knew the people —we had to take a page out of the history of Walt Disney —we actually went so far as to build CRTsin the shapes of the people&#39;s faces.So if I wanted to call my friend Peter Sprague on the phone,my secretary would get his head out and bring it and set it on the desk,
时间：23:02
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：23:03
zh-cn:那将是电视被用到的场景。不可思议。 我没办法跟你解释你对那张投景到3D显示器的脸的眼神交流的的次数。下一件事我们必须说服他们的是空间的通信。 必须是通俗易懂的，但重复一下，这些东西并不是自然的失去电子通信或计算机的思考风格。如果你希望，架构上或空间上的概念，那就是认识到，当你坐在桌子前的时候，你实际的位置变的很重要。当一个人站起来，去接电话或者使用卫生间或干别的事情，空的位子就是那个人，如果你希望，就是那个人。你可以指出那个空位，然后你说“他或她不同意。”然后那个人的席位是空的。空间性就变的很关键了。所以我们说，“好，这些将会变成圆桌式桌子边上的顺序必须是一样的。所以，我的位置将会是，真实的。然后你其它位置你也会有这些塑料脑袋。并且这些塑料脑袋 — 有时你想要投影他们，那里有很多方案，我不在这里详细描述。
en:and that would be the TV used for the occasion.And it&#39;s uncanny: there&#39;s no way I can explain to youthe amount of eye contact you get with that physical faceprojected on a 3D CRT of that sort.The next thing that we had to do is to persuade themthat there needed to be spatial correspondence, which is straightforward,but again, it&#39;s something that didn&#39;t fall naturallyout of a telecommunications or computing style of thinking;it was a very, if you will, architectural or spatial concept.And that was to recognize that when you sit around the table,the actual location of the people becomes rather important.And when somebody gets up, in fact, to go answer a phoneor use a bathroom or something, the empty seat becomes,if you will, that person. And you point frequently to the empty seatand you say, &quot;He or she wouldn&#39;t agree,&quot;and the empty chair is that person and the spatiality is crucial.So we said, &quot;Well, these will be on round tablesand the order around the table had to be the same,so that at my site, I would be, if you will, realand then at each other&#39;s site you&#39;d have these plastic heads.And the plastic heads, sometimes you want to project them.And there are a number of schemes, which I don&#39;t want to dwell on,
时间：24:22
zh-cn:但这会是我们最终会使用方式，我们会投影到屏幕背后塑造成脸的形状，字面上是这个人的脸型。这是由相片制作出来的，我会给你看更多的幻灯片现在，我们跟踪这个人的头部和头部的动作。然后我们发送一个头部动作的视频。然后，头部的动作分为两个基准线。所以，如果我突然将我的头转向我的左边，然后对那个人说话，然后这个人是在我左边的位置，他将看到两个塑料脑袋在相互讨论。并且，如果这个人打断，然后这两个脑袋也许又转回来。这确实是重建，非常精确的，电话会议。
en:but this is the one that we finally usedwhere we projected onto rear screen materialthat was molded in the face — literally in the face of the person.And I&#39;ll show you one more slide, where this is actually madefrom something called a solid photograph and is the screen.Now, we track, on the person&#39;s head, the head motions —so we transmit with a video the head positions —and so this head moves in about two axes.So if I, all of a sudden, turn to the person to my leftand start talking to that person, then at the person to my right&#39;s site,he&#39;ll see these two plastic heads talking to each other.And then if that person interrupts, then those two heads may turn.And it really is reconstructing, quite accurately, teleconferencing.
