时间： 0:11
zh-cn:当我五岁的时候我爱上了飞机现在我要谈谈三十年代。在三十年代，飞机有两个翅膀和一个圆形发动机并且总是由一名酷似加里.格兰特的家伙驾驶着飞行。他穿着高筒的皮靴，马裤，一件旧皮衣，一个令人惊叹的头盔和一副非凡的护目镜—还有一条不可或缺的白围巾飘荡在风中。他总是踱着悠闲的步子走向他的飞机满不在乎的漫步着，把香烟弹向一边，抓住等在那儿的女孩儿，给她深深的一吻。（笑声）然后登上他的飞机，也许是最后一次。当然，我总是好奇如果他先吻了飞机会发生什么。（笑声）
en:When I was five years oldI fell in love with airplanes.Now I&#39;m talking about the &#39;30s.In the &#39;30s an airplane had two wingsand a round motor,and was always flownby a guy who looked like Cary Grant.He had high leather boots,jodhpurs, an old leather jacket,a wonderful helmetand those marvelous goggles —and, inevitably, a white scarf,to flow in the wind.He&#39;d always walk up to his airplanein a kind of saunter,devil-may-care saunter,flick the cigarette away,grab the girl waiting here, give her a kiss.(Laughter)And then mount his airplane,maybe for the last time.Of course I always wondered what would happenif he&#39;d kissed the airplane first.(Laughter)
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:但这对我来说非常浪漫。在那些年里，关于飞行的一切，—我不得不停下来，怀念一下那个时刻—也许是那时最先进的技术。所以作为一个年轻人我试图通过画飞机来接近它，不断的画。这就是我所得到的浪漫的一部分。当然在某种程度上，当我说浪漫的时候，我的意思是全局中的美学部分。我认为这个词是围绕着一个产品的整体感受。这个产品就是飞机。但它本身就富含浪漫色彩。甚至是飞机部件都有法语名。机身，机尾，你知道，这是一门浪漫的语言。所以它就是恰恰能进入灵魂的事物。它进入了我的灵魂。
en:But this was real romance to me.Everything about flying in those years,which was — you have to stop and think for a moment —was probably the most advancedtechnological thing going on at the time.So as a youngster,I tried to get close to thisby drawing airplanes,constantly drawing airplanes.It&#39;s the way I gota part of this romance.And of course, in a way, when I say romance,I mean in partthe aesthetics of that whole situation.I think the word is the holistic experiencerevolving around a product.The product was that airplane.But it built a romance.Even the parts of the airplanehad French names.Ze fuselage, ze empanage, ze nessal.You know, from a romance language.So that it was something that just got into your spirit.It did mine.
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:接着，我决定我要比仅仅画想象中的飞机更进一步。我想制造飞机。所以我开始做飞机模型。然后我发现做飞机模型只画外观是不够的。无法把它们变成模型。如果想让它能够飞行你必须学习飞行的准则。你必须学习航空学。你必须学习是什么使得飞机能够在空中飞行。当然，在那个年代，你无法去控制一个模型。所以它必须能自我调整，并且保持飞行不坠机。因此，我不得不放弃绘制幻想中的形状转而绘制技术图纸。机翅的形状，机身的形状，等等等等。并在这些遵循了一定飞行原则的图纸基础上制作一架飞机模型。在做了这些之后，我就能够做出一个能够在空中飞行的飞机模型。一旦它在空中飞行,它就拥有了部分我所钟爱的这种浪漫。
en:And I decided I had to get closer thanjust drawing fantasy airplanes.I wanted to build airplanes.So I built model airplanes.And I found that in doing the model airplanesthe appearance drawings were not enough.You couldn&#39;t transfer thoseto the model itself.If you wanted it to flyyou had to learn the disciplineof flying.You had to learn about aeronautics.You had to learn what made an airplanestay in the air.And of course, as a model in those years, you couldn&#39;t control it.So it had to be self-righting,and stay up without crashing.So I had to give upthe approach of drawingthe fantasy shapesand convert it to technical drawings —the shape of the wing, the shape of the fuselage and so on —and build an airplane over these drawingsthat I knew followed some of the principlesof flying.And in so doing, I could producea model that would fly, stay in the air.And it had, once it was in the air,some of this romance that I was in love with.
时间： 4:01
zh-cn:嗯，绘制飞机的行为引导着我当我有机会在学校选择一门课程时，引导着我选择了航空工程。当我坐在课堂里时，让我惊讶的是，没人叫我绘制一架飞机。我不得不学习数学和力学还有所有这类的课程。我在课堂上画飞机来消磨时间.一天，一名年轻人从我肩膀上看了看，他说，“你画的真不错”。“你应该去艺术系”。我说，“为什么？”他说道，“嗯，一个原因，那儿有更多的女孩儿”。（笑声）
en:Well the act of drawing airplanesled me to,when I had the opportunity to choosea course in school,led me to sign up for aeronautical engineering.And when I was sitting in classes —in which no one asked me to draw an airplane —to my surprise.I had to learn mathematics and mechanicsand all this sort of thing.I&#39;d wile away my time drawing airplanesin the class.One day a young man looked over my shoulder,he said, &quot;You draw very well.You should be in the art department.&quot;And I said, &quot;Why?&quot;And he said, &quot;Well for one thing, there are more girls there.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 4:49
zh-cn:因此我的浪漫暂时转移了。（笑声）我进入了艺术系因为他们欣赏绘画。学习绘画。在那儿做的不是很好。学习了设计，一些建筑设计。终于，我成了一名设计师。而后的25年，我生活在意大利，生活在美国，我向任何愿意为之付钱的人分发一份这种浪漫。这种感觉，这种美学的感知，由一个良好设计的物体而引发的体验。是存在的.你们中的任何人在路上开着汽车也许就在昨天你了解这种围绕着这些高性能的汽车的浪漫。
en:So my romance was temporarily shifted.(Laughter)And I went into artbecause they appreciated drawing.Studied painting; didn&#39;t do very well at that.Went through design,some architecture.Eventually hired myself out as a designer.And for the following 25 years,living in Italy,living in America,I doled out a piece of this romanceto anybody who&#39;d pay for it —this sense, this aesthetic feeling,for the experience revolving arounda designed object.And it exists.Any of you who rode the automobiles —was it yesterday? —at the track, you know the romancerevolving around those high performance cars.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:嗯，在25年里我主要把这种浪漫分发出去而没有从其中收获多少因为这种设计并不总是能将你和某种环境联系起来，并使得你能在其中生产出它本质的东西。因此，25年后我开始感觉到我的才思枯竭了。然后我退出了。接着，我开始了一项很小的行动—从40人(的团队)到我一个人努力去重新发现我的纯真。我想回到浪漫存在的地方。
en:Well in 25 yearsI was mostly putting outpieces of this romanceand not getting a lot back inbecause design on calldoesn&#39;t always connect you with a circumstancein which you can produce things of this nature.So after 25 years I began to feelas though I was running dry.And I quit.And I started up a very small operation —went from 40 peopleto one,in an effort to rediscover my innocence.I wanted to get backwhere the romance was.
时间： 6:29
zh-cn:我不能选择飞机因为在这一点上，他们有某种非浪漫的东西。即使我做了很多与飞机内饰相关的工作。所以我选择了家具。接着我又特意选择了椅子因为我对它们有些了解。历年来，我设计了很多椅子为拖拉机和卡车以及潜艇。设计了各种类型的椅子。但不包括办公椅。因此，我开始设计办公椅。我发现许多方法都能达到同样的目的，正如我曾经用在飞机上的。只是这次不是由风来决定产品的形状，而是由人体来决定。所以准则就是，在飞机里学会了许多关于如何对付空气，为了一把椅子你不得不学习如何对待人体。人体需要什么，欲望说明了它的需要。这就是方法,最终经过一些波折和起伏，我完成了我将要呈现给你们的椅子的设计。
en:And I couldn&#39;t choose airplanesbecause they had gotten sort of unromanticat that point,even though I&#39;d done a lot of airplane work,on the interiors.So I chose furniture.And I chose chairs specificallybecause I knew something about them.I&#39;d designed a lot of chairs, over the yearsfor tractors and trucksand submarines —all kinds of things.But not office chairs.So I started doing that.And I found that there were waysto duplicate the same approachthat I used to use on the airplane.Only this time,instead of the product being shaped by the wind,it was shaped by the human body.So the discipline was —as in the airplane you learn a lot abouthow to deal with the air,for a chairyou have to learn a lot about how to dealwith the body,and what the body needs, wants,indicates it needs.And that&#39;s the way, ultimatelyafter some ups and downs,I ended up designing the chair I&#39;m going to show you.
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:我还要再说一件事，当我做那些飞机模型时，我做了一切。我构思了飞机的类型。基本上是我设计了它。我制造了它。然后我让它飞了起来。这就是我现在工作的方式。当我开始做这把椅子时没有一个先入为主的概念。现在的设计，如果你认真的话，你不会从造型草图开始.我是从许多松散的想法开始。大致八年或九年之前。这些松散的想法开始成型，我知道在办公室里的人身上都会发生什么事。在办公场所， 在那儿工作的人们使用电脑椅，很多人整天都坐在电脑前面。我觉得，他们不需要的东西，就是一把干扰他们工作的椅子。
en:I should say one more thing. When I was doing thosemodel airplanes,I did everything.I conceived the kind of airplane.I basically engineered it.I built it.And I flew it.And that&#39;s the way I work now.When I started this chairit was not a preconceived notion.Design nowadays, if you mean it,you don&#39;t start with styling sketches.I started with a lot of loose ideas,roughly eight or nine years ago.And the loose ideas had somethingto do with what I knew happened withpeople in the office,at the work place — people who worked,and used task seating,a great many of them sitting in front of a computerall day long.And I felt,the one thing they don&#39;t need,is a chair that interfereswith their main reason for sitting there.
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:因此，我要做一把这样的椅子：这把椅子应该尽可能的人性化或者尽可能的机械化以使得他们不会为它所困扰。这样，我的想法就是：不是让人坐下然后能够着许多控制机关，而是让人能做在椅子中时，它能够自动的平衡你的体重，对抗使人倾斜的力。现在这也许你们中有些些人并不理解。但是你知道许多好的椅子会倾斜因为这有助于伸展你的腿和上身之间的关节，以便能更好的呼吸和更好的血液循环。如果你坐在我的椅子上，不管你是五英尺还是六英尺高，它会根据你的体重得出倾斜需要的力的大小这样你就不需要去找些东西来进行调节了。
en:So I took the approachthat the chair should do as much for themas humanly possibleor as mechanistically possibleso that they didn&#39;t have to fuss with it.So my idea was that,instead of sitting down and reachingfor a lot of controls,that you would sit on the chair,and it would automatically balance your weightagainst the force requiredto recline.Now that may not mean a lot to some of you.But you know most good chairs do reclinebecause it&#39;s beneficial to open up this jointbetween your legs and your upper bodyfor better breathingand better flow.So that if you sit downon my chair,whether you&#39;re five feet tallor six foot six,it always deals with your weightand transfers the amount of force requiredto reclinein a way that you don&#39;t have to lookfor something to adjust.
时间：10:06
zh-cn:我先告诉你们，这是种妥协。这种方式有些缺点。一是，你不能适应每一个人。有些体重很轻的人.也有些极重的人.也许有些人上半身庞大。他们坐着会向下滑落。但是这种妥协，我感觉，是有益的，因为多数人并不去调节他们的椅子。他们就一直那么坐着。我在去赛车场的公交车上碰到过一个人，他告诉我他的姐姐告诉过他。他说，她有了一个新的更好的椅子。她说，“哦，我喜欢这把椅子。”她说，“但是它太高了。”（笑声）所以，他说道，“嗯，我去你那儿看看你的那把椅子。”他来了，看了那把椅子。他俯下身。拉了拉操作杆。然后这把椅子就降下去了。她说道，“哦，这太好了。你是怎么做的？”他把操作杆指给她看。是的，这是典型的我们工作中用的椅子。然而为什么你要通过看一本20页的手册来学习如何使用一把椅子。（笑声）我曾有块手表。20页的手册。
en:I&#39;ll tell you right up front,this is a trade off.There are drawbacks to this.One is: you can&#39;taccommodate everybody.There are some very light people,some extremely heavy people,maybe people with a lot of bulk up top.They begin to fall off the end of your chart.But the compromise, I felt,was in my favorbecause most people don&#39;t adjust their chairs.They will sit in them forever.I had somebody on the bus out to the racetracktell me about his sister calling him.He said she had one of the new, better chairs.She said, &quot;Oh I love it.&quot;She said, &quot;But it&#39;s too high.&quot;(Laughter)So he said, &quot;Well I&#39;ll come over and look at it.&quot;He came over and looked at it.He reached down. He pulled a lever. And the chair sank down.She said, &quot;Oh it&#39;s wonderful. How did you do that?&quot;And he showed her the lever.Well, that&#39;s typicalof a lot of us working in chairs.And why should youget a 20-page manualabout how to run a chair?(Laughter)I had one for a wristwatch once. 20 pages.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:不管怎么说，我觉得这很重要当你想要进行这类活动时，不需要去调节就能做到。另一件事，我觉得扶手从来都没被适当的使用过。从扶手能给在你的工作生活中给予你多少帮助的角度来说。但我觉得让人把每个独立的扶手调节至想要的位置有点要求过多了。因此我花了很长时间。我是说，我在这上工作了八九年。这些事情都在并行的进行着。但同时也增加了一些问题。我工作了很长时间才明白如何把扶手椅移动成一个很大的角度，这样上下移动，让它们更容易移动所以不需要去按一个按钮。经过了许多实验和失败，我们提出了一个非常简单的改装，我们仅仅是移动了一条胳膊。它们就很容易的升起来了。然后把它们停在你想要的位置。你能把它们放下来，实际上。根本不需要动手。或者你能在需要的时候把它们升起来。这是我所感觉到的另一件事。虽然不像加里·格兰特那样浪漫，然而已经开始抓住点儿美感了，操作的美感上的表现，在这个产品里。
en:Anyway, I felt that it was importantthat you didn&#39;t have to make an adjustmentin order to get this kind of action.The other thing I felt was that armrestshad never really been properly approachedfrom the standpoint of how muchof an aid they could beto your work life.But I felt it was too much to askto have to adjust each individual armrestin order to get it where you wanted.So I spent a long time.I said I worked eight or nine years on it.And each of these things went alongsort of in parallelbut incrementally were a problem of their own.I worked a long time on figuring outhow to move the arms over a much greater arc —that is up and down —and make them a lot easier,so that you didn&#39;t have to use a button.And so after many trials, many failures,we came up with a very simple arrangementin which we could just moveone arm or the other.And they go up easily.And stop where you want.You can put them down, essentially out of the way.No arms at all.Or you can pull them up where you want them.And this was another thing that I felt,while not nearly as romanticas Cary Grant,nevertheless begins tograb a little bit of aestheticoperation, aesthetic performanceinto a product.
时间：12:58
zh-cn:另一个我感兴趣的领域，是这样一个事实，倾斜是个非常重要的因素。并且，你能够倾斜的越多，在某种程度上，就越舒服。这儿跟这儿之间的角度变得越大，在你面前成为一个平面，你不会想在倾斜时让你的眼睛降得太厉害了。所以我们让它或多或少的保持同一水平。但这样你就可以把体重从尾椎骨转移走了。每个人都能伸手从后面够着自己的尾椎骨么？（笑声）你感觉到那块骨头在那下面？（笑声）只有你自己。（笑声）一共有两块，一边一块。当你坐下的时候，你上半身的所有重量，手臂，头部，通过的你后背，脊柱，直到那些骨头。这是一个很大的负荷。仅仅是用扶手来舒缓你的手臂，就能减少百分之二十的负荷。而且，如果你的不在脊椎合适的位置上，这将会使你的脊椎以错误的方式弯曲，等等。所以为了卸下这巨大的重量，如果真的存在的话，你可以斜倚着。当你斜靠着的时候，你能从底部释放掉许多负荷，并把它们转移到你的背上。与此同时，正如我所说，你舒展了这个关节。并且透气性很好。
en:The next area that was of interest to mewas the fact that recliningwas a very important factor.And the more you can recline,in a way, the better it is.The more the angle between here and here opens up —and nowadays, with a screen in front of you,you don&#39;t want to have your eye drop too far in the recline,so we keep it at more or less the same level —but you transfer weightoff your tailbones.Would everybody put their hand under their bottomand feel their tailbone?(Laughter)You feel that bone under there?(Laughter)Just your own.(Laughter)There&#39;s two of them, one on either side.All the weight of your upper torso —your arms, your head —goes right down through your back,your spine, into those bones when you sit.And that&#39;s a lot of load.Just relieving your arms with armreststakes 20 percent of that load off.Now that, if your spine is not held in a good position,will help bend your spine the wrong way, and so on.So to unloadthat great weight —if that indeed exists —you can recline.When you recline you take away a lot of that loadoff your bottom end, and transfer it to your back.At the same time, as I say, you open up this joint.And breathability is good.
时间：14:43
zh-cn:但是为了做到这一点，需要一定的倾斜,这使得在某一点需要一个靠头之物因为在一个垂直的位置自动地支撑你的头部，明白么？当我倾斜的时候，我的头部能表示出垂直度的多少。并且，如果你倾斜的比较厉害，就需要用肌肉的力量来支撑头部这就是为什么在这儿需要个靠头之物了。现在，这个靠头之物是个挑战因为你想能对它进行充分的调整，以适应一个高个的家伙或是一位小巧的女孩。那么，让我们来看看。我在这儿留了五英寸的调节空间，以便于能为头靠找个合适的位置。但是当我从经验中得知，并对办公室中有头靠的办公椅进行了调查后发现没人愿意把手伸到背后去拧一个把手来调节头靠的位置。而且当你从坐直变为倾斜时，需要把它换个位置。所以我意识到这个问题必须解决，而且必须是自动化的。如果你看看这把椅子，当我倾斜时，头靠会升起来迎合我的脖子。理想情况下，你希望头靠在颅骨的区域，就在这儿。为解决这个问题花了不少时间。
en:But to do that, if you have anyamount of recline,it gets to the point where you need a headrestbecause nearly always,automatically hold your headin a vertical position, see?As I recline, my head says more or less vertical.Well if you&#39;re reclined a great deal,you have to use muscle forceto hold your head there.So that&#39;s where a headrest comes in.Now headrest is a challengebecause you want it to adjustenough so that it&#39;ll fit,you know, a tall guy and a short girl.So here we are.I&#39;ve got five inches of adjustment herein order to get the headrest in the right place.But then I knew from experienceand looking around in officeswhere there were chairs with headreststhat nobody would ever botherto reach back and turn a knoband adjust the headrest to put it in position.And you need it in a different positionwhen you&#39;re upright, then when you&#39;re reclined.So I knew that had to be solved, and had to be automatic.So if you watch this chairas I recline, the headrest comes upto meet my neck.Ideally you want to put the head supportin the cranial area, right there.So that part of it took a long timeto work out.
时间：16:21
zh-cn:还有许多其他的部分，椅垫的形状。我们放入了凝胶，这是我们从自行车座学来的一个主意，把凝胶放入椅垫和扶手中来吸收点负荷—这分散了负荷，所以你不会感觉到硬点。你能用肘来按按钮。我想为你们演示一下这把椅子能因人而调节。当坐在它上面时，你能向下调整五英尺，或者它能调整以适应6英尺6英寸高家伙。所有这些调整只需要在很小的范围内进行。（掌声）
en:And there is a variety of other things: the shape of the cushions,the gel we put.We stole the idea from bicycle seats,and put gel in the cushionsand in the armreststo absorb point load —distributes the loading so you don&#39;t get hard spots.You cant hit your elbowon bottom.And I did want to demonstratethe fact that the chair can accommodate people.While you&#39;re sitting in it you can adjust itdown for the five-footer,or you can adjust itfor the six-foot-six guy —all within the scope of a few simple adjustments.(Applause)
