时间： 0:11
zh-cn:远古时代的恐龙是不可思议的物种。它们非常的奇特,也非常的壮观，而我们对它们的了解还非常有限。
en:These dragons from deep timeare incredible creatures.They&#39;re bizzarre,they&#39;re beautiful,and there&#39;s very littlewe know about them.
时间： 0:22
zh-cn:在我第一次拿到一本介绍恐龙的书，这些念头就已经开始在我的脑海中浮现。那个时候我大概只有5岁，我当时就下定决心要做一名古生物学家。研究古生物学不仅满足了我对远古动物的好奇心，也让我能够在世界上各个广袤的角落间游历。
en:These thoughts were goingthrough my headwhen I looked at the pages ofmy first dinosaur book.I was about five years old at the time,and I decided there and thenthat I would become a paleontologist.Paleontology allowed me to combine my love for animalswith my desire to travel to far-flung corners of the world.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:目前我已经进行了多年的相关研究，也多次带领考古队探索了地球上最古老的辽阔之地，撒哈拉沙漠。之所以选择撒哈拉沙漠，是因为我最近在探寻，希望能够找到一种奇特、巨大的肉食性恐龙，叫做“棘龙”。
en:And now, a few years later,I&#39;ve led several expeditionsto the ultimate far-flung corner on this planet, the Sahara.I&#39;ve worked in the Sahara becauseI&#39;ve been on a questto uncover new remains ofa bizarre, giant predatory dinosaurcalled Spinosaurus.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:一百多年前，一位德国古生物学家在埃及境内的沙漠发现了少量棘龙的骨骼化石。非常可惜，所有的化石都在二战中被毁掉了。所以我们现在能找到的资料就只有一些笔记和（骨头的）素描。
en:A few bones of this animalhave been foundin the deserts of Egyptand were described about 100 years agoby a German paleontologist.Unfortunately, all his Spinosaurus boneswere destroyed in World War II.So all we&#39;re left with are justa few drawings and notes.
时间： 1:24
zh-cn:通过这些素描，我们发现这种生活在一千万年前的生物体型非常的庞大，它们的背上有高耸的脊椎，形成了一条巨大的尾巴，下巴非常的细长，像是鳄鱼的嘴一样，牙齿是圆锥型的，这可能是用来捕食很滑的食物，例如鱼类。但是在接下来的一百年中，基本上就没有任何新的发现了。
en:From these drawings,we know that this creature, which lived about 100 million years ago,was very big,it had tall spines on its back,forming a magnificent sail,and it had long, slender jaws, a bit like a crocodile,with conical teeth,that may have been used to catch slippery prey, like fish.But that was pretty much all we knewabout this animal for the next 100 years.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:我们在摩洛哥和阿尔及利亚交界附近，一处叫卡玛卡玛的地方进行了实地考察。在这种地方工作很艰苦。你需要应对沙尘暴，蛇，蝎子等等，而要找到保存较好的化石也很难。好在我们的努力没有白费。我们发现了很多不可思议的物种。这是目前为止在撒哈拉发现的最大的恐龙骨骼。我们发现了巨型食肉恐龙，中等大小的食肉恐龙，以及7到8种不同类型的鳄鱼嘴型的恐龙。
en:My fieldwork took me to the border regionbetween Morocco and Algeria,a place called the Kem Kem.It&#39;s a difficult place to work in.You have to deal with sandstormsand snakes and scorpions,and it&#39;s very difficult to findgood fossils there.But our hard work paid off.We discovered many incredible specimens.There&#39;s the largest dinosaur bonethat had ever been foundin this part of the Sahara.We found remains of giantpredatory dinosaurs,medium-sized predatory dinosaurs,and seven or eight different kindsof crocodile-like hunters.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:这些化石堆积在一个河流底部的淤泥中。在这条水系里也埋藏着有汽车那么大的巨型腔棘鱼，怪兽一样的锯鲛（鱼），河流的上空盘旋着大量的热翼龙，一种会飞的爬行动物。毫无疑问这是个非常危险的地方，这可不是一个你会想要乘坐时光机参观猎奇的好去处。
en:These fossils were depositedin a river system.The river system was also home to a giant, car-sized coelacanth,a monster sawfish,and the skies over the river systemwere filled with pterosaurs,flying reptiles.It was a pretty dangerous place,not the kind of place where you&#39;d wantto travel to if you had a time machine.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:我们找到了这么多的不可思议的动物，这些生物都生活在棘龙的周围，但是我们一直追寻的棘龙，其踪迹还是难以琢磨。我们只找到它的一些化石碎片，我一直希望有一天能够找到一些大的骨架。
en:So we&#39;re finding all these incredible fossils of animalsthat lived alongside Spinosaurus,but Spinosaurus itself provedto be very elusive.We were just finding bits and piecesand I was hoping that we&#39;d finda partial skeleton at some point.
时间： 3:14
zh-cn:终于，在最近，我们成功的找到了一个当地化石勘探者挖掘的大坑，他在这个坑里挖出过一些棘龙的化石。我们重新回到这个坑里寻找更多的化石。终于，在100多年之后，我们又挖掘到了这种奇特生物的骨架，（译注：第一具已经在二战中被毁）我们成功的重建了它。
en:Finally, very recently,we were able to track down a dig sitewhere a local fossil hunter foundseveral bones of Spinosaurus.We returned to the site,we collected more bones.And so after 100 years we finallyhad another partial skeletonof this bizarre creature.And we were able to reconstruct it.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:我们现在能够确认棘龙的头形状跟鳄鱼的头有点像，跟其它的肉食性恐龙差别非常大，跟雷克斯暴龙家族（T. rex）差别非常大。更有意思的是骨架的其它部分。我们发现了很长的脊椎骨，构成了一条粗大的尾巴，我们找到了腿骨和头盖骨，我们找到了桨状的足，脚趾分的很开——非常的少见，这是已知恐龙中唯一带有这种特征的——我们猜测是因为他们需要在松软的沉积物上行走的缘故，或者它们需要在水里滑行。我们还检查了骨头的微结构，棘龙骨头的内部构造，发现骨头非常的密实和紧凑。这样的结构我们经常在长期泡在水里的动物身上看到，有助于它们在水中控制平衡。
en:We now know that Spinosaurus had a heada little bit like a crocodile,very different from other predatory dinosaurs,very different from the T. rex.But the really interesting informationcame from the rest of the skeleton.We had long spines,the spines forming the big sail.We had leg bones, we had skull bones,we had paddle-shaped feet, wide feet —again, very unusual, no otherdinosaur has feet like this —and we think they may have beenused to walk on soft sediment,or maybe for paddling in the water.We also looked at the finemicrostructure of the bone,the inside structure of Spinosaurus bones,and it turns out that they&#39;revery dense and compact.Again, this is something we see in animalsthat spend a lot of time in the water,it&#39;s useful for buoyancy control in the water.
时间： 4:22
zh-cn:我们用CT扫描了收集到的所有骨头，并对棘龙的骨架进行了数字建模。当我们仔细研究骨架模型时，我们意识到，没错，棘龙是独特的。它比之前发现的雷克斯暴龙还要大，没错，棘龙的头就是为了捕鱼而设计的，但是实际上棘龙的全身都透露着“亲水型”的设计——紧致的骨骼、蹼状的足、相对短小的后足，同样的，这些特征都让我们相信只有长期呆在水里的动物才会有这些身体构造。
en:We C.T.-scanned all of our bonesand built a digital Spinosaurus skeleton.And when we looked at the digital skeleton,we realized that yes, this wasa dinosaur unlike any other.It&#39;s bigger than a T. rex,and yes, the head has &quot;fish-eating&quot;written all over it,but really the entire skeleton has&quot;water-loving&quot; written all over it —dense bone, paddle-like feet,and the hind limbs are reduced in size,and again, this is somethingwe see in animalsthat spend a substantial amount of time in the water.
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:所以，当我们重建了棘龙的血肉——当我注视着棘龙的肌肉和最外层的皮肤时——我们意识到我们面对的是一头水里的猛兽，一种比雷克斯暴龙还要大的肉食性恐龙，远古时代的河流统治者，通过捕食我刚才介绍的其他水生生物生存。
en:So, as we fleshed out our Spinosaurus —I&#39;m looking at muscle attachmentsand wrapping our dinosaur in skin —we realize that we&#39;re dealingwith a river monster,a predatory dinosaur, bigger than T. rex,the ruler of this ancient river of giants,feeding on the many aquatic animalsI showed you earlier on.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:这个发现非常地不可思议。这是独一无二的恐龙。有人跟我说，“哇，能发现这个，这辈子也就没有什么遗憾的了。毕竟，这个世界上已经没有多少地方可挖了。”不过，我觉得并不是这样。我觉得撒哈拉依然到处都是宝藏，每当有人告诉我说，已经没啥地方可以探索了，我都喜欢引用一位著名恐龙化石考古学者Roy Chapman Andrews 的话，他说过，”你总是能够在角落里发现一些什么——而这个世界从来不缺角落。”这句话不仅在很多年前，Roy Chapman Andrews 写下它时是正确的，在今天依然如此。
en:So that&#39;s really what makes thisan incredible discovery.It&#39;s a dinosaur like no other.And some people told me, &quot;Wow,this is a once-in-a-lifetime discovery.There are not many things leftto discover in the world.&quot;Well, I think nothing could be further from the truth.I think the Sahara&#39;s still full of treasures,and when people tell me there areno places left to explore,I like to quote a famous dinosaur hunter,Roy Chapman Andrews,and he said, &quot;Always, there has beenan adventure just around the corner —and the world is still full of corners.&quot;That was true many decades agowhen Roy Chapman Andrewswrote these lines.And it is still true today.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:感谢各位。
en:Thank you.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
