时间： 0:12
zh-cn:这个人的胡子被我们叫作蜜蜂胡子（笑声）一脸满是蜜蜂的胡子
en:This man is wearing what we calla bee beard. (Laughter)A beard full of bees.
时间： 0:19
zh-cn:现在,当你想到蜜蜂的时候，也许想到的是昆虫也许是其他什么有不只两条腿的东西。让我开始告诉你一些东西，我明白你。我理解这个。但是有许多是要知道，我希望你这这里打开你的思维，一直打开你的思维，改变你对蜜蜂的观点。
en:Now, this is what many of you might picturewhen you think about honeybees, maybe insects,or maybe anything that has more legs than two.And let me start by telling you, I gotcha.I understand that. But, there are many things to know,and I want you to open your minds here,keep them open, and change your perspective about honeybees.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:我们发现这个男子并没有蜇伤他也许将一个蜂后系在他的下巴上，其他的蜜蜂被蜂后吸引过来。这个的确能证实我们和蜜蜂之间的关系，这个可以追溯几千年以前。我们密切相关，因为我们依赖蜜蜂的授粉就算最近，就像是一种经济货物。
en:Notice that this man is not getting stung.He probably has a queen bee tied to his chin,and the other bees are attracted to it.So this really demonstrates our relationship with honeybees,and that goes deep back for thousands of years.We&#39;re very co-evolved, because we depend on beesfor pollination and, even more recently,as an economic commodity.
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:你们中的许多人也许听说了蜜蜂正在消失，不是仅仅的死亡，但是他们不见了。我们甚至没找到尸体。这个被称作蜂群崩坏症候群，这个是奇怪的。世界范围内的研究仍然没有找到原因，但是我们知道的是，随着蜂群的减少，我们赖以为食的超过130种水果和蔬菜作物的费用正在上升。
en:Many of you may have heard that honeybees are disappearing,not just dying, but they&#39;re gone.We don&#39;t even find dead bodies.This is called colony collapse disorder,and it&#39;s bizarre. Researchers around the globestill do not know what&#39;s causing it,but what we do know is that, with the declining numbersof bees, the costs of over 130 fruit and vegetable cropsthat we rely on for food is going up in price.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:所以蜜蜂在经济领域发挥着和农业一样重要的角色。你在这里看到一些图片，我们称作绿色屋顶或者是都市农业。我们熟悉左边展示的波士顿当地花园的这个就是我称为家的地方。在我的后院里有一个蜂窝。也许将来会是个绿色的屋顶，当我们将来利用起屋顶空地，在那里堆积起绿色的空间。
en:So honeybees are important for their role in the economyas well as in agriculture.Here you can see some pictures of what are calledgreen roofs, or urban agriculture.We&#39;re familiar with the image on the left that showsa local neighborhood garden in the South End.That&#39;s where I call home. I have a beehive in the backyard.And perhaps a green roof in the future,when we&#39;re further utilizing urban areas,where there are stacks of garden spaces.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:看看这个波士顿橘线上面照的相片。把蜂窝的地方标记起来，在这里。就在屋顶上，在角落的右边，它现在已经在那好几年了。目前经营都市养蜂业的途径是把蜂巢实实在在的隐藏起来，不是因为蜜蜂需要这样。而这仅仅是因为人们对这个想法觉得不舒服，这就是为什么我想要你今天想想这个，想想蜜蜂在城市的好处那为什么它们会是恐怖的事情。
en:Check out this image above the orange line in Boston.Try to spot the beehive. It&#39;s there.It&#39;s on the rooftop, right on the corner there,and it&#39;s been there for a couple of years now.The way that urban beekeeping currently operatesis that the beehives are quite hidden,and it&#39;s not because they need to be.It&#39;s just because people are uncomfortable with the idea,and that&#39;s why I want you today to try to think about this,think about the benefits of bees in citiesand why they really are a terrific thing.
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:让我给你一个简单的授粉是如何运作的框架。我们了解花朵，我们知道水果和蔬菜甚至一些我们所食用的家畜吃的干草中的金花菜依赖于授粉者，但是这儿雄蕊和雌蕊都有最基本的，传粉者被植物的花蜜所吸引，在这个过程中一只蜜蜂光顾不同的花朵携带一些花粉也就是类似花的精子，途径不同的花朵，最终比如一个苹果，就会生产出来。注意到方向。它是向下连到枝条的。等到我们吃它的时候，花瓣都已掉落。这就是基本点回顾了一下授粉是如何进行的。
en:Let me give you a brief rundown on how pollination works.So we know flowers, we know fruits and vegetables,even some alfalfa in hay that the livestockfor the meats that we eat, rely on pollinators,but you&#39;ve got male and female parts to a plant here,and basically pollinators are attracted to plantsfor their nectar, and in the process,a bee will visit some flowers and pick up some pollen,or that male kind of sperm counterpart, along the way,and then travel to different flowers, and eventuallyan apple, in this case, will be produced.You can see the orientation. The stem is down.The blossom end has fallen off by the time we eat it,but that&#39;s a basic overview of how pollination works.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:让我们想想城市生活，不是现今，也不是过去，而是在将来一百年？将要成什么样？随着这一段时间的栖息地的流失我们有巨大的土地挑战。我们有越来越多的人口，100亿人，在这100年间，老天知道这是多少的人啊，如何用狭小的空间养活所有的人口啊，所以我们要改变我们看待城市的方式，看一下左边这张纽约现在的图片，你看到他完全是棕色和灰色。我们在屋顶上铺盖柏油纸，它将热能反射回到大气，并加速全球暖化。在这100年中，如果我们到处都有绿色屋顶，还有花园，我们在我们自己的城市里种植庄稼？我们节省了运输和节省了更健康的饮食所需的的花费，我们还能在当地培养和创造新的职业。我们需要蜜蜂为我们未来的城市和都市生活。
en:And let&#39;s think about urban living, not today,and not in the past, but what about in a hundred years?What&#39;s it gonna look like? We have huge grand challengesthese days of habitat loss. We have more and more people,billions of people, in 100 years, God knows how many people,and how little space there will be to fit all of them,so we need to change the way that we see cities, andlooking at this picture on the left of New York City today,you can see how gray and brown it is.We have tar paper on the rooftops that bounces heat backinto the atmosphere,contributing to global climate change, no doubt.What about in 100 years, if we have green rooftopseverywhere, and gardening, and we create our own cropsright in the cities? We save on the costs of transportation,we save on a healthier diet, and we also educateand create new jobs locally.We need bees for the future of our cities and urban living.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:这里是一些通过我们公司（Best Bees）收集的数据我们为吻合想要他们的人发送，安装并管理蜂房，在城市中，在郊区，我们介绍蜜蜂，把蜂箱放置在你的后院或是屋顶在或是消防通道，不论是哪个可以看到这是多么的简单并且可行的。
en:Here&#39;s some data that we collected through our companywith Best Bees, where we deliver, install and managehoneybee hives for anybody who wants them,in the city, in the countryside, and we introduce honeybees,and the idea of beekeeping in your own backyard or rooftopor fire escape, for even that matter,and seeing how simple it is and how possible it is.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:这里有一个我们察觉到的违反直觉的趋势让我们先看看第一个数字过冬的存活率这是养蜂人多年以来面临的困扰1980年代末期，蜜蜂蟹蟎入侵并随之携带许多不同的细菌、病毒以及真菌传染疾病。成功的度过冬天很困难大多数的蜂群都是这时候流失我们在城市发现了它们，蜜蜂（在城市）可以比在乡村更好的存活下来。听起来有点违背常理，对吧?我们在想，哦，蜜蜂，乡村，农田但这不是蜜蜂想要的蜜蜂更想要呆在城市里。（笑）
en:There&#39;s a counterintuitive trend that we noticedin these numbers. So let&#39;s look at the first metric here,overwintering survival.Now this has been a huge problem for many years,basically since the late 1980s, when the varroa mite cameand brought many different viruses, bacteriaand fungal diseases with it.Overwintering success is hard,and that&#39;s when most of the colonies are lost,and we found that in the cities, bees are survivingbetter than they are in the country.A bit counterintuitive, right?We think, oh, bees, countryside, agriculture,but that&#39;s not what the bees are showing.The bees like it in the city. (Laughter)
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:不仅如此，他们也会生产更多的蜂蜜。都市蜂蜜真是美味极了。在波士顿Seaport 酒店屋顶上的蜂群他们现在正成千上万于我们头顶飞过我确定当你们路过的时候是没有察觉到的，正在逐渐走进当地的社区花园并生产出美味健康的蜂蜜尝起来就像我们城市中的花朵一样。因此都市蜂箱的产量，也就是蜂蜜的产量以及过冬的存活率都较郊区的蜂群高。真的不太合常理
en:Furthermore, they also produce more honey.The urban honey is delicious.The bees in Boston on the rooftop of the Seaport Hotel,where we have hundreds of thousands of beesflying overheard right nowthat I&#39;m sure none of you noticed when we walked by,are going to all of the local community gardensand making delicious, healthy honeythat just tastes like the flowers in our city.So the yield for urban hives, in terms of honey production,is higher as well as the overwintering survival,compared to rural areas.Again, a bit counterintuitive.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:然后看一下关于蜂蜜健康的历史记录我们回到950年然后看到於爱尔兰的蜂群死亡率也是非常高的。所以现在蜜蜂所出现的问题也不是什么新鲜问题，以前年前就已经发生这样的问题了，但是我们在城市里并没有发现这样的问题。
en:And looking back historically at the timelineof honeybee health, we can go back to the year 950 and seethat there was also a great mortality of bees in Ireland.So the problems of bees today isn&#39;t necessarilysomething new. It has been happeningsince over a thousand years ago,but what we don&#39;t really notice are these problems in cities.
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:因此有一件事我想鼓励你去思考的是&quot;都市岛屿&quot;这个概念也许你会想到在城市里气温会更高。那为什么蜜蜂在城市里可以活得更好？现在这就是一个巨大的问题去帮助我们理解为什么它们应该出现在城市里。有可能城市里有较多的花粉许许多多进入市中心的火车有可能携带许多重量很轻的花粉使市中心成为一个花粉超市许多椴树沿着火车铁轨生长城市中也许较郊区少喷洒农药城市中也许较郊区少喷洒农药也许是一些我们还没有思考过的问题，但是有一个想法要去思索，就是都市岛屿
en:So one thing I want to encourage you to think aboutis the idea of what an urban island is.You think in the city maybe the temperature&#39;s warmer.Why are bees doing better in the city?This is a big question now to help us understandwhy they should be in the city.Perhaps there&#39;s more pollen in the city.With the trains coming in to urban hubs, they cancarry pollen with them, very light pollen,and it&#39;s just a big supermarket in the city.A lot of linden trees live along the railroad tracks.Perhaps there are fewer pesticides in the citiesthan there are in [rural] areas.Perhaps there are other things that we&#39;re just not thinking about yet,but that&#39;s one idea to think about, urban islands.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:再者，蜂群崩坏症候群病不是唯一影响蜜蜂的东西蜜蜂正在消失当中而这是我们这个世纪所面临的极大考验这是我们追踪历年蜜蜂蟹螨分布的地图这是我们追踪历年蜜蜂蟹螨分布的地图
en:And colony collapse disorder is not the only thingaffecting honeybees. Honeybees are dying,and it&#39;s a huge, huge grand challenge of our time.What you can see up here is a map of the world,and we&#39;re tracking the spread of this varroa mite.
时间： 6:54
zh-cn:你可以看见，蜜蜂蟹螨的来临完全改变了蜂群现况在右上角的数字显示年代慢慢移动，进入到现代你可以清楚看见蜜蜂蟹螨从1900年代至今的入侵速度到了1968年，亚洲已被完全覆盖到了1971，他传到欧洲和南美洲然后，再到1980年代准确来说是1987，蜜蜂蟹螨终于抵达北美洲和美国而也就是那时美国蜜蜂的状态彻底改变
en:Now, the varroa mite is what changed the gamein beekeeping, and you can see, at the top right,the years are changing, we&#39;re coming up to modern times,and you can see the spread of the varroa mitefrom the early 1900s through now.It&#39;s 1968, and we&#39;re pretty much covering Asia.1971, we saw it spread to Europe and South America,and then, when we get to the 1980s,and specifically to 1987, the varroa mite finally cameto North America and to the United States,and that is when the game changedfor honeybees in the United States.
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:各位应该都记得小时候，有可能你曾不小心被蜜蜂叮了，或是看过蜜蜂采蜜想想现在的孩子，他们的童年不太一样他们没有经历过这些因为他们周围已经没有蜜蜂了我们需要蜜蜂，但牠们一直消失，而这是个大问题
en:Many of us will remember our childhood growing up,maybe you got stung by a bee, you saw bees on flowers.Think of the kids today. Their childhood&#39;s a bit different.They don&#39;t experience this.The bees just aren&#39;t around anymore.So we need bees and they&#39;re disappearing and it&#39;s a big problem.
时间： 7:47
zh-cn:我们能够做些什么?我本身是研究蜜蜂的我的博士论文研究的是蜂群的健康我从2005年开始研究蜜蜂蜜蜂于2006年开始消失忽然间，我这个纯粹想上学玩虫的书呆子(笑声)忽然间，我这个纯粹想上学玩虫的书呆子(笑声)变成在进行世纪迫切需要的研究。真的凑巧就这样发生了
en:What can we do here?So, what I do is honeybee research.I got my Ph.D. studying honeybee health.I started in 2005 studying honeybees.In 2006, honeybees started disappearing,so suddenly, like, this little nerd kidgoing to school working with bugs — (Laughter) —became very relevant in the world.And it worked out that way.
时间： 8:07
zh-cn:我的研究重心在于如何使蜂群更健康我本身并不研究是什么因素让蜜蜂死亡我不是世界上众多研究疾病和杀虫剂，或是栖地流失和营养匱乏对蜜蜂的影响的研究者之一我们寻找使蜂群更健康的方法利用疫苗，益生菌，像是优格还有其他能够经由蜜蜂食入的治疗方法这些方法执行起来简单到七岁小孩都能完成你只需要混合花粉、糖、和水以及你所需要的任何活性成分然后就直接给蜜蜂，不需要化学药剂只需要增强免疫力的食品
en:So my research focuses on ways to make bees healthier.I don&#39;t research what&#39;s killing the bees, per se.I&#39;m not one of the many researchers around the worldwho&#39;s looking at the effects of pesticides or diseasesor habitat loss and poor nutrition on bees.We&#39;re looking at ways to make bees healthierthrough vaccines, through yogurt, like probiotics,and other types of therapies in ways that can be fed orally to bees,and this process is so easy, even a 7-year-old can do it.You just mix up some pollen, sugar and water,and whatever active ingredient you want to put in,and you just give it right to the bees. No chemicals involved,just immune boosters.
时间： 8:44
zh-cn:我们人类通常积极预防病管理自己的健康我们会运动、吃健康的食物、服用维他命那我们为什麼不以同样的观点来看待蜜蜂呢?将他们带到能够充分发展的地方并且在他们生病之前增强牠们的健康状态
en:Humans think about our own health in a prospective way.We exercise, we eat healthy, we take vitamins.Why don&#39;t we think about honeybees in that same type of way?Bring them to areas where they&#39;re thrivingand try to make them healthier before they get sick.
时间： 8:58
zh-cn:我研究所时花了很多时间想要替蜜蜂打疫苗用针打(笑声) 我花了好几年窝在实验室 &quot;喔天哪，已经半夜三点了我竟然还在用针戳蜜蜂&quot; (笑声)然后有一天我想说 &quot;我们为何不发展口服疫苗?&quot;真的是有够 &quot;啊&quot; 所以，这就是现在我们所做的 (笑声)
en:I spent many years in grad school trying to poke bees and do vaccineswith needles. (Laughter) Like, years,years at the bench, &quot;Oh my gosh, it&#39;s 3 a.m.and I&#39;m still pricking bees.&quot; (Laughter)And then one day I said, &quot;Why don&#39;t we just do an oral vaccine?&quot;It&#39;s like, &quot;Ugh,&quot; so that&#39;s what we do. (Laughter)
时间： 9:18
zh-cn:让我和你们分享一些都市蜂箱的照片因为它们能够是任何东西我是说，真的敞开心胸想想你可以把蜂箱漆成和你家相配的颜色你可以在家里面藏一个蜂箱这些蜂箱在Fairmont Copley Plaza 饭店的屋顶这些蜂箱在 Fairmont Copley Plaza 饭店的屋顶它们美极了。我们还特别配合他们房间内的木头顏色还有他们床单的蓝色而这些蜜蜂棒极了，他们会利用在花园里种植的香草那里的厨师用香草做菜而生产出的蜂蜜— 旅馆会现场表演取蜜—会拿去吧台调酒用蜂蜜是砂糖的绝佳替代品因为里面含有各式不同的糖。
en:I&#39;d love to share with you some images of urban beehives,because they can be anything.I mean, really open your mind with this.You can paint a hive to match your home.You can hide a hive inside your home.These are three hives on the rooftopof the Fairmont Copley Plaza Hotel,and they&#39;re beautiful here. I mean, we matchedthe new color of the inside of their rooms to dosome type of a stained wood with blue for their sheets,and these bees are terrific, and they also will useherbs that are growing in the garden.That&#39;s what the chefs go to to use for their cooking,and the honey — they do live events —they&#39;ll use that honey at their bars.Honey is a great nutritional substitute for regular sugarbecause there are different types of sugars in there.
时间：10:00
zh-cn:我们同时有一个教室蜂箱计划这是一个非营利计划我们正在全世界推广如何把蜜蜂带入教室或是博物馆，在玻璃后面来作为教育工具
en:We also have a classroom hives project,where — this is a nonprofit venture —we&#39;re spreading the word around the world for howhoneybee hives can be taken into the classroomor into the museum setting, behind glass,and used as an educational tool.
时间：10:16
zh-cn:这个蜂巢已经在Fenway High School许多年了这个蜂巢已经在Fenway High School许多年了蜜蜂可以直接飞出到Fenway Park棒球场的外野没人注意到。如果你不是花，蜜蜂才不管你呢 (笑声)他们真的不会。他们会说&quot;借过，我要飞过去&quot; (笑声)这些其它的图片阐述的故事可让我们真正体会都市养蜂的好处一直到2010年之前，在纽约市养蜂是违法的这是个大问题，因为当地的花朵和蔬果无法授粉要用什么传粉?难道用手吗?我是说真的，在波士顿，就有个很棒的公司叫作Green City Growers，而他们到处靠人力用棉花棒替他们的瓜类作物手工传粉如果他们错过那三天的授粉期，就无法收成而他们的客户就不满意，人们吃不到东西所以这是很重要的问题
en:This hive that you see here has beenin Fenway High School for many years now.The bees fly right into the outfield of Fenway Park.Nobody notices it. If you&#39;re not a flower,these bees do not care about you. (Laughter)They don&#39;t. They don&#39;t. They&#39;ll say,&quot;S&#39;cuse me, flying around.&quot; (Laughter)Some other images here in telling a part of the storythat really made urban beekeeping terrific isin New York City, beekeeping was illegal until 2010.That&#39;s a big problem, because what&#39;s going to pollinateall of the gardens and the produce locally? Hands?I mean, locally in Boston, there is a terrific companycalled Green City Growers, and they are goingand pollinating their squash crops by hand with Q-Tips,and if they miss that three day window, there&#39;s no fruit.Their clients aren&#39;t happy, and people go hungry.So this is important.
时间：11:04
zh-cn:这里还有一些从布鲁克林产的蜂蜜这曾是在纽约时报风云一阵子的谜题因为那蜂蜜是个出人意料的鲜红色结果纽约州司法实验室派人调查然后还真的调查出原来那颜色与同一条街上的红樱桃加工厂所用的染剂一模一样 (笑声)所以你可以种各种不同适合蜂蜜的植物来创造出你理想的蜂蜜风味
en:We have also some images of honey from Brooklyn.Now, this was a mystery in the New York Timeswhere the honey was very red, and theNew York State forensics department came inand they actually did some science to matchthe red dye with that foundin a maraschino cherry factory down the street. (Laughter)So you can tailor your honey to taste however you wantby planting bee-friendly flowers.
时间：11:25
zh-cn:巴黎是都市养蜂的典范他们的歌剧院楼顶上的蜂箱已经运作多年了，这让许多人意识到&quot;哇，我们真的做得到，而且这是我们应该做的&quot;而且在伦敦，以及其他欧洲城市非常广泛使用绿屋顶并融合养蜂所以让我在这里做个小结论
en:Paris has been a terrific model for urban beekeeping.They&#39;ve had hives on the rooftop of their opera housefor many years now, and that&#39;s what really got people started, thinking,&quot;Wow, we can do this, and we should do this.&quot;Also in London, and in Europe across the board,they&#39;re very advanced in their use of green rooftopsand integrating beehives,and I&#39;ll show you an ending note here.
时间：11:48
zh-cn:我想鼓励你们敞开心胸想想你能够做什么来拯救并帮助蜜蜂或想想如何创造可持续发展的城市?说真的，你只要转换你的心态了解蜜蜂其实是非常重要的当你看见蜜蜂他并不会螫你其实，蜜蜂螫你他会死所以他们也不愿意啊 (笑声)没有什么值得惊慌的，他们已散布城市各处你想要的话，你也能拥有一个蜂巢有许多很棒的资源来帮助你甚至还有专业公司帮你起步并提供教学服务对教育而言，蜜蜂也十分重要他们帮助全世界的学生学习农业知识就像是这位小女孩，看，她根本没被螫到谢谢 (掌声)
en:I would like to encourage you to open your mind.What can you do to save the bees or to help themor to think of sustainable cities in the future?Well, really, just change your perspective.Try to understand that bees are very important.A bee isn&#39;t going to sting you if you see it.The bee dies. Honeybees die when they sting,so they don&#39;t want to do it either. (Laughter)It&#39;s nothing to panic about. They&#39;re all over the city.You could even get your own hive if you want.There are great resources available,and there are even companies that will help get you set up and mentor youand it&#39;s important for our educational system in the worldfor students to learn about agriculture worldwidesuch as this little girl, who, again, is not even getting stung.Thank you. (Applause)
