时间： 0:11
zh-cn:星期一的早晨在华盛顿美国总统坐在椭圆形办公室里，思忖着是否要打击也门的基地组织。在唐宁街（英国首相府）大卫·卡梅隆（英国首相）正在考虑是否削减更多公共部门职位以对抗二次经济衰退。在马德里，玛丽亚∙冈萨雷斯站在门边听着她的孩子不停哭泣她想弄明白是该让孩子继续哭哭到自己睡着还是把孩子抱起来，哄一哄。在医院，我坐在父亲的病床旁，想知道是否让他喝下那瓶1.5公升的水刚才他的医生来到病房说：“你今天必须让他喝下去，” —我父亲饮食难咽已经一个星期了，让他喝下这么一大瓶水，简直是要了他的命。
en:It&#39;s Monday morning.In Washington,the president of the United Statesis sitting in the Oval Office,assessing whether or notto strike Al Qaedain Yemen.At Number 10 Downing Street,David Cameron is trying to work outwhether to cut more public sector jobsin order to stave off a double-dip recession.In Madrid, Maria Gonzalezis standing at the door,listening to her baby crying and crying,trying to work out whether she should let it cryuntil it falls asleepor pick it up and hold it.And I am sitting by my father&#39;s bedside in hospital,trying to work outwhether I should let him drinkthe one-and-a-half-liter bottle of waterthat his doctors just came in and said,&quot;You must make him drink today,&quot; —my father&#39;s been nil by mouth for a week —or whether, by giving him this bottle,I might actually kill him.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:在我们的一生中，我们会面临着种种重要选择，这些选择的结果会产生重要影响。我们有各种途径来应对这些选择：跟朋友倾谈上网搜索或者查阅书籍但是即便当今我们有谷歌、到到网和亚马逊推荐，我们仍然最信赖专家—尤其是在风险很高选择非常重要更是如此。因为在一个拥有海量数据和极其纷繁复杂的世界中，我们相信专家比我们更善于处理信息—他们给出的结论往往比我们自己的结论要好。在一个让我们时常感到恐惧有时困惑的时代，我们只有把专家当作父母一样的权威来信赖听从他们所说的话遵循他们的建议做选择才感到安心。
en:We face momentous decisionswith important consequencesthroughout our lives,and we have strategies for dealing with these decisions.We talk things over with our friends,we scour the Internet,we search through books.But still,even in this ageof Google and TripAdvisorand Amazon Recommends,it&#39;s still expertsthat we rely upon most —especially when the stakes are highand the decision really matters.Because in a world of data delugeand extreme complexity,we believe that expertsare more able to process information than we can —that they are able to come to better conclusionsthan we could come to on our own.And in an agethat is sometimes nowadays frighteningor confusing,we feel reassuredby the almost parental-like authorityof expertswho tell us so clearly what it iswe can and cannot do.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:但我认为这是一个大问题甚至可能严重的影响到我们整个社会整个文化及我们个人。我并不是在否定专家对世界作出的巨大贡献—他们当然有贡献。问题出在我们身上—我们已变得过于依赖专家。我们过于相信专家是千真万确、十拿九稳、永不出错，在这一过程中我们放弃了自己的责任丢弃了自己的逻辑思维和聪明才智只相信专家的”真知灼见“。我们放弃了自己的力量，因为自己无法确定感到苦恼，所以幻想通过专家的确定性来排解我们的苦恼。我没有夸张最近有一个实验对一组成年人的大脑进行磁共振扫描同时让他们听专家讲话扫描结果让人惊讶：他们听专家讲话的同时大脑负责独立决策的区域就停止活动—屏幕上出现一条直线。无论专家所说的话是什么他们都全盘接受专家的建议，不分对错。
en:But I believethat this is a big problem,a problem with potentially dangerous consequencesfor us as a society,as a cultureand as individuals.It&#39;s not that expertshave not massively contributed to the world —of course they have.The problem lies with us:we&#39;ve become addicted to experts.We&#39;ve become addicted to their certainty,their assuredness,their definitiveness,and in the process,we have ceded our responsibility,substituting our intellectand our intelligencefor their supposed words of wisdom.We&#39;ve surrendered our power,trading off our discomfortwith uncertaintyfor the illusion of certaintythat they provide.This is no exaggeration.In a recent experiment,a group of adultshad their brains scanned in an MRI machineas they were listening to experts speak.The results were quite extraordinary.As they listened to the experts&#39; voices,the independent decision-making parts of their brainsswitched off.It literally flat-lined.And they listened to whatever the experts saidand took their advice, however right or wrong.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:但是专家也会犯错。你们知道有研究表明医生的诊断结果中有40%的误诊率吗？你们知道有数据表明如果你自己填纳税申报单，自己往往计算得正确，而找一个纳税顾问来帮你报税正确率要差很多吗？当然，我还能举出大家更熟悉的例子：正因为金融专家大错特错，所以我们陷入了自30年代以来最糟糕的经济衰退。为了我们的健康，繁荣以及共同安全我们必须要保持大脑的独立决策能力时时开启。我是一个经济学者，在过去的几年中集中研究我们人类的想法我们相信谁以及为什么相信他们。但同时—我也意识到比较讽刺的一点—我本身就是专家也是一名教授，我为许多首相、大公司的领导和国际组织提供建议；但我自己却认为专家的角色需要转变，专家的思维应该更开放，更听从公众的意见，更加能容纳那些质疑我们观点的人。为了帮助大家了解我的背景，我先带大家了解下我的世界专家的世界。
en:But experts do get things wrong.Did you know that studies showthat doctors misdiagnosefour times out of 10?Did you knowthat if you file your tax returns yourself,you&#39;re statistically more likelyto be filing them correctlythan if you get a tax adviserto do it for you?And then there&#39;s, of course, the examplethat we&#39;re all too aware of:financial expertsgetting it so wrongthat we&#39;re living through the worst recessionsince the 1930s.For the sake of our health,our wealthand our collective security,it&#39;s imperative that we keepthe independent decision-making parts of our brainsswitched on.And I&#39;m saying this as an economistwho, over the past few years,has focused my researchon what it is we thinkand who it is we trust and why,but also —and I&#39;m aware of the irony here —as an expert myself,as a professor,as somebody who advises prime ministers,heads of big companies,international organizations,but an expert who believesthat the role of experts needs to change,that we need to become more open-minded,more democraticand be more opento people rebelling againstour points of view.So in order to help you understandwhere I&#39;m coming from,let me bring you into my world,the world of experts.
时间： 5:57
zh-cn:当然，现实中不乏例子表明专家推动了人类文明的进步，但我的研究表明专家整体上倾向于形成非常顽固的阵营，在每个阵营之内有一个占主导地位的观点常常压制其他的反对观点。专家也都随波逐流通常都追捧自己那一派的泰斗。阿兰·格林斯潘曾经宣称经济增长会连年持续不会停滞，业内没人挑战他的权威，但后来经济危机却席卷而来。你瞧，我们要明白专家也有地域性，也受到既定的社会文化准则的制约—举几个例子：英国维多利亚时代的医生把表达自己性欲的女性送到精神病院；美国的精神科医生一直到1973年还把同性恋归结为精神疾病
en:Now there are, of course, exceptions,wonderful, civilization-enhancing exceptions.But what my research has shown meis that experts tend on the wholeto form very rigid camps,that within these camps,a dominant perspective emergesthat often silences opposition,that experts move with the prevailing winds,often hero-worshippingtheir own gurus.Alan Greenspan&#39;s proclamationsthat the years of economic growthwould go on and on,not challenged by his peers,until after the crisis, of course.You see,we also learnthat experts are located,are governed,by the social and cultural normsof their times —whether it be the doctorsin Victorian England, say,who sent women to asylumsfor expressing sexual desire,or the psychiatrists in the United Stateswho, up until 1973,were still categorizing homosexualityas a mental illness.
时间： 7:23
zh-cn:所有这些表明人们的思维范式根深蒂固、迟于改变，而且忽略了复杂性和差异性还往往向金钱看齐—我们都看到过制药公司出资研究药品却图方便对药品最大的副作用置之不理，还有一些食品公司出资研究自己的新产品，但却对他们准备推向市场的新产品的健康疗效极其夸大。研究表明，食品公司的研究结果往往比独立研究要夸大七倍
en:And what all this meansis that paradigmstake far too long to shift,that complexity and nuance are ignoredand also that money talks —because we&#39;ve all seen the evidenceof pharmaceutical companiesfunding studies of drugsthat conveniently leave outtheir worst side effects,or studies funded by food companiesof their new products,massively exaggerating the health benefitsof the products they&#39;re about to bring by market.The study showed that food companies exaggeratedtypically seven times morethan an independent study.
时间： 8:11
zh-cn:我们也要认识到专家当然也会犯错。他们每一天都会犯一些错误—往往是由于粗心引起的。《外科档案》杂志最近有一个研究报道外科医生摘除健康的卵巢，做脑手术时弄错了左右，也会搞错要动手术的是哪只手，肘，眼睛或者脚；他们还犯一些思维上的错误。一个常见思维错误就是放射科医生的诊断—他们看到病人的CT扫描，就会参照转介医生如何诊断病人的病症，而他们的判断就会极大的受到先前诊断的影响。所以如果一名放射科医生接待一个被诊断为疑似肺炎的病人，看着扫描结果，可能有这种情况发生：他们一旦看到屏幕上有肺炎的症状，就不会进一步观察—结果就忽略了病人肺部几英寸以下还有肿瘤。
en:And we&#39;ve also got to be awarethat experts, of course,also make mistakes.They make mistakes every single day —mistakes born out of carelessness.A recent study in the Archives of Surgeryreported surgeonsremoving healthy ovaries,operating on the wrong side of the brain,carrying out procedures on the wrong hand,elbow, eye, foot,and also mistakes born out of thinking errors.A common thinking errorof radiologists, for example —when they look at CT scans —is that they&#39;re overly influencedby whatever it isthat the referring physician has saidthat he suspectsthe patient&#39;s problem to be.So if a radiologistis looking at the scanof a patient with suspected pneumonia, say,what happens is that,if they see evidenceof pneumonia on the scan,they literally stop looking at it —thereby missing the tumorsitting three inches belowon the patient&#39;s lungs.
时间： 9:27
zh-cn:目前为止我已经跟大家分享了一些我对专家的看法当然我不只想跟大家分享这些想法而是希望至少让大家明白我们为什么要停止崇拜专家为什么要质疑他们的想法以及为什么要保持我们的独立决策能力常启常新具体要怎样做呢？因为时间有限我在这里主要讲三种方法第一，我们应该自愿主动的反对专家的意见摒弃那种把他们当成现世圣人的想法。这不是意味着你得成为某个学科的博士大家听到这句会松一口气而是说，比如，专家难免会表现的不耐烦例如，当我们想让专家用我们能明白的话解释一些事情时。为什么这么说呢，有一次我要做个手术，我的医生跟我说，“赫兹小姐，小心体温过高的症状，”他可以简单的说，小心别发高烧。听从专家的意见也就是要主动的探寻他们给出的图表，等式，诊断，估计等等背后真正的涵义，还要自己准备问一些问题，比如：你是基于何种推断得出这种观点？推断的依据是什么？你的检查是集中于哪方面，忽略了什么方面？
en:I&#39;ve shared with you so farsome insights into the world of experts.These are, of course,not the only insights I could share,but I hope they give you a clear sense at leastof why we need to stop kowtowing to them,why we need to rebeland why we need to switchour independent decision-making capabilities on.But how can we do this?Well for the sake of time,I want to focus on just three strategies.First, we&#39;ve got to be ready and willingto take experts onand dispense with this notion of themas modern-day apostles.This doesn&#39;t mean having to get a Ph.D.in every single subject,you&#39;ll be relieved to hear.But it does mean persistingin the face of their inevitable annoyancewhen, for example,we want them to explain things to usin language that we can actually understand.Why was it that, when I had an operation,my doctor said to me,&quot;Beware, Ms. Hertz,of hyperpyrexia,&quot;when he could have just as easily said,&quot;Watch out for a high fever.&quot;You see, being ready to take experts onis about also being willingto dig behind their graphs,their equations, their forecasts,their prophecies,and being armed with the questions to do that —questions like:What are the assumptions that underpin this?What is the evidence upon which this is based?What has your investigation focused on?And what has it ignored?
时间：11:20
zh-cn:最近有研究表明，有些专家对即将上市药品进行测试的时候他们通常首先在雄性动物身上试验，然后在男性身上试验。他们好像忽略了一个事实：世界上超过一半的人口是女性。所以女性在医药测试中总是倒霉的一方，因为现在证明许多药品对男性有效对女性效果却不大，甚至由于药品药性过于强大，女性服用后反而对身体造成很大伤害。所以质疑专家实际上是认识到专家的推断，他们采用的方法也往往是有缺陷的，
en:It recently came outthat experts trialing drugsbefore they come to markettypically trial drugsfirst, primarily on male animalsand then, primarily on men.It seems that they&#39;ve somehow overlooked the factthat over half the world&#39;s population are women.And women have drawn the short medical strawbecause it now turns out that many of these drugsdon&#39;t work nearly as well on womenas they do on men —and the drugs that do work well work so wellthat they&#39;re actively harmful for women to take.Being a rebel is about recognizingthat experts&#39; assumptionsand their methodologiescan easily be flawed.
时间：12:13
zh-cn:第二，我们需要营造出一种空间”提出管理性异见“。如果我们要转变思维和行为模式，取得突破，打破神秘，我们就需要培养出一种氛围，让专家的想法打出胜负，让我们大胆地提出各种新的不和谐的声音和离经叛道的想法，在参与讨论的过程中我们要无所畏惧。因为我们知道进步不仅来自于提出新构想，也来源于解构旧想法；因为我们知道我们必须敞开心胸接受各种不和谐的声音，接受离经叛道的想法。所有研究表明只有这样我们才会变得更聪明。鼓励不和谐的声音其实很反叛，因为这与我们的本能背道而驰，我们的本能是只接受那些我们已经深信或者主观上想去相信的意见和建议。这也就是为什么我提倡我需要积极的管理异见。
en:Second,we need to create the spacefor what I call &quot;managed dissent.&quot;If we are to shift paradigms,if we are to make breakthroughs,if we are to destroy myths,we need to create an environmentin which expert ideas are battling it out,in which we&#39;re bringing innew, diverse, discordant, heretical viewsinto the discussion,fearlessly,in the knowledge that progress comes about,not only from the creation of ideas,but also from their destruction —and also from the knowledgethat, by surrounding ourselvesby divergent, discordant,heretical views.All the research now shows usthat this actually makes us smarter.Encouraging dissent is a rebellious notionbecause it goes against our very instincts,which are to surround ourselveswith opinions and advicethat we already believeor want to be true.And that&#39;s why I talk about the needto actively manage dissent.
时间：13:31
zh-cn:谷歌首席执行官埃里克·施密特在现实中就秉承这种哲学理念开会时，他就望向房间里的人—他的手臂端着，神色些许困惑—他让每个人参与到讨论中来，看看这些人能否真正提出不同的意见，这样会议室内才有各种不同的声音。管理异见就是认识到让各种不同声音，不同意见百家争鸣的价值性。但我们需要更进一步，从根本上重新定义专家的概念传统概念将专家定义为那些有高等学位，有名头衔持各种证书或写过畅销书的人—都是有名望的人。但是请想象一下如果我们抛弃把专家的意见当成金科玉律的想法，相反，勇于接受让专业知识走向平民化的想法，这样专业知识就不仅仅是外科医生或首席执行官的独有领域，也可以由店员传授给你。
en:Google CEO Eric Schmidtis a practical practitionerof this philosophy.In meetings, he looks out for the person in the room —arms crossed, looking a bit bemused —and draws them into the discussion,trying to see if they indeed arethe person with a different opinion,so that they have dissent within the room.Managing dissentis about recognizing the valueof disagreement, discordand difference.But we need to go even further.We need to fundamentally redefinewho it is that experts are.The conventional notionis that experts are peoplewith advanced degrees,fancy titles, diplomas,best-selling books —high-status individuals.But just imagineif we were to junkthis notion of expertiseas some sort of elite cadreand instead embrace the notionof democratized expertise —whereby expertise was not just the preserveof surgeons and CEO&#39;s,but also shop-girls — yeah.
时间：14:57
zh-cn:美国百思买是一家消费型电子产品公司，它鼓励公司所有员工无论是保洁员，店员，还是后勤人员参都与公司决策，而不是把这些任务留给预测团队一力承担。员工共同参谋比如某一产品能否在圣诞节前畅销，或者顾客提出的新想法是否可以被公司采纳，某个项目能否及时进行等等。通过利用和鼓励专业知识在公司里普及，百思买得以发现，例如，公司计划在中国开业的大型百思买商店却不能按期开业，因为当时公司问员工，让所有的员工下注猜中国的商店能否如期开业，公司财政部的一组员工全部都投了否定票认为不会如期开业。结果证明这组员工在公司其他部门都没有意识到时候对技术性的故障已有先见之明，而对这种故障无论是预测专家还是在公司在中国的专家都没料到。
en:Best Buy,the consumer electronics company,gets all its employees —the cleaners, the shop assistants,the people in the back office,not just its forecasting team —to place bets, yes bets,on things like whether or nota product is going to sell well before Christmas,on whether customers&#39; new ideasare going to be or should be taken on by the company,on whether a projectwill come in on time.By leveragingand by embracingthe expertise within the company,Best Buy was able to discover, for example,that the store that it was going to open in China —its big, grand store —was not going to open on time.Because when it asked its staff,all its staff, to place their betson whether they thought the store would open on time or not,a group from the finance departmentplaced all their chipson that not happening.It turned out that they were aware,as no one else within the company was,of a technological blipthat neither the forecasting experts,nor the experts on the ground in China,were even aware of.
时间：16:21
zh-cn:今天晚上我跟大家探讨的策略—欢迎不和谐声音、反对专家的意见、让专业知识走向平民化接受不同的意见，我认为这些策略能让我们游刃有余地应对当今这个迷乱、复杂艰难的时代为我们带来的挑战。如果我们保持大脑的决策功能时时开启，如果我们挑战专家，敢于质疑，瓦解所谓权威，如过我们能提出反对声音，同时，如果我们能更加坦然接受所面对的差异、不确定性和质疑，如果我们也允许专家能够以这些方式来阐释他们自己，我们就能够更好的武装自己，应对21世纪的挑战。现在比以往更需要我们抛弃忙从、盲目接受盲目相信。现在正需要我们睁大眼睛看世界—当然也需要专家帮助我们解决问题—我还不想让自己彻底失业—但是，要意识到专家的局限性还有我们自己的局限性。
en:The strategiesthat I have discussed this evening —embracing dissent,taking experts on,democratizing expertise,rebellious strategies —are strategies that I thinkwould serve us all well to embraceas we try to deal with the challengesof these very confusing, complex,difficult times.For if we keepour independent decision-making partof our brains switched on,if we challenge experts, if we&#39;re skeptical,if we devolve authority,if we are rebellious,but alsoif we become much more comfortablewith nuance,uncertainty and doubt,and if we allow our expertsto express themselvesusing those terms too,we will set ourselves upmuch betterfor the challenges of the 21st century.For now, more than ever,is not the timeto be blindly following,blindly accepting,blindly trusting.Now is the time to face the worldwith eyes wide open —yes, using expertsto help us figure things out, for sure —I don&#39;t want to completely do myself out of a job here —but being awareof their limitationsand, of course, also our own.
时间：18:01
zh-cn:谢谢大家
en:Thank you.
时间：18:03
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
