时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们用眼睛看世界但我们也用大脑看用大脑来看，也就是我们常说的想象我们很熟悉自己想象的模式也就是内心世界，它伴随我们一生然而想象之外还有幻觉幻觉跟想象截然不同它似乎不是我们所创造的好像也不受我们的控制它似乎源自外界又伪装成我们自己的感知
en:We see with the eyes,but we see with the brain as well.And seeing with the brainis often called imagination.And we are familiar withthe landscapes of our own imagination,our inscapes. We&#39;ve lived with them all our lives.But there are also hallucinations as well,and hallucinations are completely different.They don&#39;t seem to be of our creation.They don&#39;t seem to be under our control.They seem to come from the outside,and to mimic perception.
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:所以我将就幻觉做一些解释也会提到我在病人身上观察到的一种特殊的视觉幻觉几个月前我接到从我工作的养老院打来的一个电话他们告诉我住客中有一位90多的老太太“看到了一些东西”他们怀疑她是不是疯了或者因为年纪大得了中风，或是老年痴呆症
en:So I am going to be talkingabout hallucinations,and a particular sortof visual hallucinationwhich I see among my patients.A few months ago, I got a phone callfrom a nursing home where I work.They told me that one of their residents,an old lady in her 90s,was seeing things,and they wondered if she&#39;d gone bonkersor, because she was an old lady,whether she&#39;d had a stroke,or whether she had Alzheimer&#39;s.
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:所以他们请我去看看罗萨莉也就是那个老太太我去了后马上就发现她不仅完全神志正常还非常清醒、明智就是有点吓坏了，还有点奇怪为什么她会出现幻视她还说护士忘了告诉我她眼睛是看不见的她五年前就因为视网膜黄斑退化而完全失明了近几天却看到了幻象
en:And so they asked me ifI would come and see Rosalie,the old lady.I went in to see her.It was evident straight awaythat she was perfectly saneand lucid and of good intelligence,but she&#39;d been very startledand very bewildered,because she&#39;d been seeing things.And she told me —the nurses hadn&#39;t mentioned this —that she was blind,that she had been completely blindfrom macular degeneration for five years.But now, for the last few days,she&#39;d been seeing things.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:我问：“什么样的幻象？”她说：“许多人穿着东方服饰那种长袍式的，在楼梯上上下下一个男的转过来对我笑但他的嘴巴只有一边长着牙，很大的牙还有很多动物有一栋白色的楼，天在下雪，小雪我还看到一匹戴着挽具的马不断把雪拖走然后有一天晚上，幻象变了变成好多猫和狗朝我这边走走着走着就停了然后又变了这回我看到很多小朋友在楼梯上爬上爬下他们穿着颜色鲜艳的衣服，有玫瑰色，有蓝色就像东方服饰。”
en:So I said, &quot;What sort of things?&quot;And she said, &quot;People in Eastern dress,in drapes, walking up and down stairs.A man who turns towards me and smiles.But he has huge teethon one side of his mouth.Animals too.I see a white building.It&#39;s snowing, a soft snow.I see this horse with a harness,dragging the snow away.Then, one night, the scene changes.I see cats and dogs walking towards me.They come to a certain pointand then stop.Then it changes again.I see a lot of children.They are walking up and down stairs.They wear bright colors, rose and blue,like Eastern dress.&quot;
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:她说，有时候在她看到人之前她还能看到地板上粉色和蓝色的方块跑到天花板上我问：“像不像做梦？”她说：“不，不像梦。像个电影。”“它是有颜色的，还有动作不过一点声音都没有，像默片。”她还说那电影相当无聊她说：“所有人都穿着东方衣服爬上爬下，不停地，一点别的花样都没有。”(笑声)
en:Sometimes, she said,before the people come on,she may hallucinatepink and blue squares on the floor,which seem to go up to the ceiling.I said, &quot;Is this like a dream?&quot;And she said, &quot;No, it&#39;s notlike a dream. It&#39;s like a movie.&quot;She said, &quot;It&#39;s got color.It&#39;s got motion.But it&#39;s completely silent,like a silent movie.&quot;And she said thatit&#39;s a rather boring movie.She said, &quot;All these peoplewith Eastern dress,walking up and down,very repetitive, very limited.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 3:22
zh-cn:她很幽默而且知道那是个幻觉但她有点害怕，因为她活了95年从来没有出现过幻觉她说那些幻觉跟她的意识和行为一点都不相干总是这么无缘无故地出现，又无缘无故地消失完全不受她控制而幻觉中出现的人和地点她一个都不认识里面的人和动物也好像看不见她她不知道这是这么了她想，她是疯了还是在失去理智
en:And she has a sense of humor.She knew it was a hallucination.But she was frightened.She&#39;d lived 95 yearsand she&#39;d never hada hallucination before.She said that the hallucinationswere unrelatedto anything she was thinkingor feeling or doing,that they seemed to come onby themselves, or disappear.She had no control over them.She said she didn&#39;t recognizeany of the people or placesin the hallucinations.And none of the peopleor the animals,well, they all seemed oblivious of her.And she didn&#39;t know what was going on.She wondered if she was going mador losing her mind.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:于是我为这个活泼的老太太做了详尽的检查结果发现她的神智完全正常，没有精神问题她所吃的药也都没有致幻的副作用不过，她是盲的所以我说：“我想我知道你的问题是什么了。有一种特殊的视觉幻觉会发生在视力受损或完全失明的人身上这种现象最早在18世纪被一个叫查尔斯·邦纳的人描述过你得的就是邦纳症候群(Charles Bonnet syndrome)问题既不在你的大脑，也不在你的意识你只是得了这种邦纳症候群。”
en:Well, I examined her carefully.She was a bright old lady,perfectly sane. She hadno medical problems.She wasn&#39;t on any medicationswhich could produce hallucinations.But she was blind.And I then said to her,&quot;I think I know what you have.&quot;I said, &quot;There is a special formof visual hallucinationwhich may go with deterioratingvision or blindness.This was originally described,&quot; I said,&quot;right back in the 18th century,by a man called Charles Bonnet.And you have Charles Bonnet syndrome.There is nothing wrong with your brain.There is nothing wrong with your mind.You have Charles Bonnet syndrome.&quot;
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:她大松一口气还好不是什么重病完了还相当好奇她问：“这个查尔斯他也有这种幻觉吗？还有，告诉那些护工，我只不过是得了邦纳症候群。“(笑声)“我没疯，也没傻，我只是得了邦纳症候群。”于是我照她的意思告诉了护工们
en:And she was very relieved at this,that there was nothingseriously the matter,and also rather curious.She said, &quot;Who is this Charles Bonnet?&quot;She said, &quot;Did he have them himself?&quot;And she said, &quot;Tell all the nursesthat I have Charles Bonnet syndrome.&quot;(Laughter)&quot;I&#39;m not crazy. I&#39;m not demented.I have Charles Bonnet syndrome.&quot;Well, so I did tell the nurses.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:其实这种现象对我来说并不稀奇我在养老院工作认识很多老人是听力或视力受损的10%的听力受损者有听觉幻觉10%的视力受损者有视觉幻觉不一定要完全失明或完全听不到，才会有这种幻觉
en:Now this, for me, is a common situation.I work in old-age homes, largely.I see a lot of elderly peoplewho are hearing impairedor visually impaired.About 10 percentof the hearing impaired peopleget musical hallucinations.And about 10 percentof the visually impaired peopleget visual hallucinations.You don&#39;t have to be completely blind,only sufficiently impaired.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:18世纪的查尔斯·邦纳其实并没有这种症状产生幻觉的是他的祖父一位年长的长官这个长官曾接受过白内障手术视力不大好1759年，他向孙子描述了他看到的各种各样的幻象
en:Now with the original descriptionin the 18th century,Charles Bonnet did not have them.His grandfather had these hallucinations.His grandfather was a magistrate,an elderly man.He&#39;d had cataract surgery.His vision was pretty poor.And in 1759, he described to his grandsonvarious things he was seeing.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:第一个幻象是一块悬浮在空中的手帕大大的，蓝色的还有四个橙色的圆圈他知道这是个幻觉因为手帕不会浮在半空他还看到过一个大轮子浮在空中不过有时候他也搞不清楚看到的到底是不是幻觉因为这些幻觉会融合在现实的背景里有一次，当他的孙女们来探望他时，他又看到了幻觉他问：“这几个跟你们在一起的帅小伙子是谁啊？”孙女们却说：“诶，爷爷，没有你说的帅小伙啊。”突然间帅小伙们就消失了这是一种典型的幻觉刷一下来，刷一下去没有渐变相当突然，变得也快
en:The first thing he said was he sawa handkerchief in midair.It was a large blue handkerchiefwith four orange circles.And he knew it was a hallucination.You don&#39;t have handkerchiefs in midair.And then he saw a big wheel in midair.But sometimes he wasn&#39;t surewhether he was hallucinating or not,because the hallucinations would fitin the context of the visions.So on one occasion,when his granddaughters were visiting them,he said, &quot;And who are thesehandsome young men with you?&quot;And they said, &quot;Alas, Grandpapa,there are no handsome young men.&quot;And then the handsomeyoung men disappeared.It&#39;s typical of these hallucinationsthat they may come in a flashand disappear in a flash.They don&#39;t usually fade in and out.They are rather sudden,and they change suddenly.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:查尔斯·鲁林，也就是那个祖父看到过几百个不同的人像还有各种各样的景色有一次，他看到一个穿浴袍的男人在抽烟斗然后意识到，那就是他自己那是唯一一个他辨认出来的人像还有一次，他在巴黎的街道上当真看到了一个脚手架回到家后，却看到了那个脚手架的迷你版六英尺高，就立在他的书桌上这种感知的重复有时会被称作视像保留
en:Charles Lullin, the grandfather,saw hundreds of different figures,different landscapes of all sorts.On one occasion, he saw a manin a bathrobe smoking a pipe,and realized it was himself.That was the only figure he recognized.On one occasion when he was walkingin the streets of Paris,he saw — this was real — a scaffolding.But when he got back home,he saw a miniature of the scaffoldingsix inches high, on his study table.This repetition of perceptionis sometimes called palinopsia.
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:这种在查尔斯·鲁林和罗斯莉身上发生的让罗斯莉问道“我这是这么了？”的现象我这么解释吧：随着视力的减退大脑与视力相关的部分渐渐失去了信息输入从而进入一种过度活跃的、待激活的状态于是它开始自发地活动让人产生幻象产生的幻象可以相当复杂
en:With him and with Rosalie,what seems to be going on —and Rosalie said, &quot;What&#39;s going on?&quot; —and I said that as you lose vision,as the visual parts of the brainare no longer getting any input,they become hyperactive and excitable,and they start to fire spontaneously.And you start to see things.The things you seecan be very complicated indeed.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:我有一个病人（像查尔斯·鲁林一样）视力没有完全减退她看到的幻象比较恼人她说有一次她看到餐馆里有一个穿条纹恤衫的男人他转过身然后就突然分裂成6个同样穿条纹恤衫的人像开始朝她走来然后六个人就合了起来，就像手风琴一样有一次她正在开车应该说，是他丈夫在开路突然就分裂成了4条她感觉就像同时在4条路上行驶
en:With another patient of mine,who, also had some vision,the vision she had could be disturbing.On one occasion, she said she sawa man in a striped shirt in a restaurant.And he turned around. And thenhe divided into six figuresin striped shirts,who started walking towards her.And then the six figures came together again,like a concertina.Once, when she was driving,or rather, her husband was driving,the road divided into fourand she felt herself goingsimultaneously up four roads.
时间： 8:35
zh-cn:她的幻觉充满动感往往会牵涉到车有时她会看到一个青年男孩坐在引擎盖上紧抓不放，车转弯时他便随着车的动作缓缓倾斜车停下后男孩便会突然垂直飞到100尺的高空然后消失
en:She had very mobilehallucinations as well.A lot of them had to do with a car.Sometimes she would see a teenage boysitting on the hood of the car.He was very tenaciousand he moved rather gracefullywhen the car turned.And then when they came to a stop,the boy would do a sudden vertical takeoff,100 foot in the air,and then disappear.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:还有一个病人，有另外一种幻觉这位女病人视力并无问题问题出在她脑部的视觉部分她的枕叶皮层有一个小肿瘤尤其引人注意的是，她看到的幻象是卡通的而且是半透明的像屏幕一样盖住半个视野特别的是，她看到的是青蛙柯密特（芝麻街人物）（笑声）我不看芝麻街的不过她坚持要问我：”为什么是柯密特？“她说，”青蛙柯密特对我来说一点意义都没有啊。“当时我正在研究弗洛伊德决定因素为什么是柯密特？”青蛙柯密特对我来说一点意义都没有啊。“
en:Another patient of minehad a different sort of hallucination.This was a woman whodidn&#39;t have trouble with her eyes,but the visual parts of her brain,a little tumor in the occipital cortex.And, above all, she would see cartoons.These cartoons would be transparentand would coverhalf the visual field, like a screen.And especially she sawcartoons of Kermit the Frog.(Laughter)Now, I don&#39;t watch Sesame Street,but she made a point of saying,&quot;Why Kermit?&quot; she said,&quot;Kermit the Frog means nothing to me.You know, I was wonderingabout Freudian determinants.Why Kermit?Kermit the Frog means nothing to me.&quot;
时间： 9:51
zh-cn:她并不大关注那部卡通让她非常苦恼的是这些幻觉持续地出现而且跟罗斯莉的情况一样，幻觉中的脸往往是扭曲的要么长着大牙，要么长着大眼这让她感到非常不安那么，这些病人是怎么了？作为一个医生，我必须尝试阐释这些现象来安抚他们尤其得告诉他们，他们没疯
en:She didn&#39;t mind the cartoons too much.But what did disturb herwas she got very persistentimages or hallucinations of facesand as with Rosalie,the faces were often deformed,with very large teeth or very large eyes.And these frightened her.Well, what is going on with these people?As a physician, I have to tryand define what&#39;s going on,and to reassure people,especially to reassure themthat they&#39;re not going insane.
时间：10:23
zh-cn:我前面提到过，视力受损的人有10%会产生幻觉但不超过1%会承认因为他们担心会被当成疯子之类而如果他们向医生提起这种症状医生可能会做出错误的诊断
en:Something like 10 percent, as I said,of visually impaired people get these.But no more than one percentof the people acknowledge them,because they are afraidthey will be seen as insane or something.And if they do mention themto their own doctorsthey may be misdiagnosed.
时间：10:41
zh-cn:而且，大家往往认为如果你看到或听到幻觉，你就是疯了其实我们提到的这种幻觉跟精神病幻觉是不一样的精神病的幻觉，不管是视觉的还是听觉的都对付你，指控你诱惑你，羞辱你嘲弄你跟你互动而这些都没有出现在邦纳式的幻觉中邦纳式幻觉就像一部电影，尽管你在看，电影却没有牵涉到你反正患者们是这么认为的
en:In particular,the notion is that if you seethings or hear things, you&#39;re going mad,but the psychotic hallucinations are quite different.Psychotic hallucinations,whether they are visual or vocal,they address you. They accuse you.They seduce you. They humiliate you.They jeer at you.You interact with them.There is none of this qualityof being addressedwith these Charles Bonnet hallucinations.There is a film. You&#39;re seeing a filmwhich has nothing to do with you,or that&#39;s how people think about it.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:还有一种少有的症状叫颞叶癫痫有时，如果一个人产生这种症状他可能会感到自己被带回到过去的一个时空在某一个路口闻到烤栗子的香味听到车来车往，所有的感官都参与着等待着心上人那可能是1982年的某个周二夜晚这种颞叶异常导致的幻觉是多感官的充满着情绪和熟悉感发生在特定时空中情节合乎逻辑而戏剧感十足邦纳式的不一样
en:There is also a rare thingcalled temporal lobe epilepsy,and sometimes, if one has this,one may feel oneself transported backto a time and place in the past.You&#39;re at a particular road junction.You smell chestnuts roasting.You hear the traffic.All the senses are involved.And you&#39;re waiting for your girl.And it&#39;s that Tuesdayevening back in 1982.And the temporal lobe hallucinationsare all-sense hallucinations,full of feeling, full of familiarity,located in space and time,coherent, dramatic.The Charles Bonnetones are quite different.
时间：11:53
zh-cn:在邦纳式幻觉中有好几种等级从几何幻觉比如老太太看到的粉色和蓝色的方块到非常复杂的幻觉比如各种人像，尤其是面容这些面容，有时是扭曲的面容是唯一一种在这些幻觉中最常见的幻象一种第二常见的幻象是卡通
en:So in the Charles Bonnet hallucinations,you have all sorts of levels,from the geometrical hallucinations —the pink and blue squares the woman had —up to quite elaborate hallucinationswith figures and especially faces.Faces, and sometimes deformed faces,are the single commonest thingin these hallucinations.And one of the secondcommonest is cartoons.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:那么，究竟为什么会产生幻觉呢？很棒的是，近几年我们能够做出脑功能成像当我们给正产生幻觉的人做功能性磁共振成像(fMRI)时我们的确发现大脑视觉部位有不同区域被激活这时被检测者正在经历幻觉如果被检测者有的是简单的几何幻觉被激活的区域则是初级视觉皮质这是大脑感知边缘和图案的部分而我们光靠这里是无法形成完整影像的
en:So, what is going on?Fascinatingly, in the last few years,it&#39;s been possible to dofunctional brain imagery,to do fMRI on peopleas they are hallucinating.And in fact, to find that different partsof the visual brain are activatedas they are hallucinating.When people have thesesimple geometrical hallucinations,the primary visual cortex is activated.This is the part of the brainwhich perceives edges and patterns.You don&#39;t form imageswith your primary visual cortex.
时间：12:58
zh-cn:影像形成时一个位于颞叶的较高级视觉皮质会有一定活动尤其是颞叶中叫做梭状回的一个区域，显著地活跃调查显示，如果梭状回损伤患者可能因此无法辨认面容而当梭状回异常时患者则可能看到面容的幻象这正是我们前面提到的几位病人所出现的症状梭状回的前部有一个区域负责处理有关牙齿和眼睛的影像而当病人出现扭曲的幻觉时正是这一部位出现了活动
en:When images are formed,a higher part of the visual cortexis involved in the temporal lobe.And in particular,one area of the temporal lobeis called the fusiform gyrus.And it&#39;s known that if peoplehave damage in the fusiform gyrus,they maybe losethe ability to recognize faces.But if there is an abnormal activityin the fusiform gyrus,they may hallucinate faces,and this is exactly what you findin some of these people.There is an areain the anterior part of this gyruswhere teeth and eyes are represented,and that part of the gyrus is activatedwhen people getthe deformed hallucinations.
时间：13:45
zh-cn:还有一个区域会在病人看到卡通幻象时出现活动人们观看卡通画卡通，或看到卡通幻象时，都是这一部位被激活这是一个特别有趣的现象大脑还有几个别的部位相应地跟其他视觉元素的辨别与幻觉有关比如楼房和风景
en:There is another part of the brainwhich is especially activatedwhen one sees cartoons.It&#39;s activated whenone recognizes cartoons,when one draws cartoons,and when one hallucinates them.It&#39;s very interestingthat that should be specific.There are other parts of the brainwhich are specifically involvedwith the recognition and hallucinationof buildings and landscapes.
时间：14:09
zh-cn:1970年左右，人们发现特化的不是一块区域而是相应的脑细胞“脸细胞”是1970年左右发现的至今，我们已经发现了数百种与各类视觉元素对应的脑细胞这种对应关系可以非常琐细、明确比如说“车”细胞可能还有“阿斯顿·马丁(一种车)”细胞(笑声)今早我看到一部阿斯顿·马丁我一直想提提它现在我的脑子里就有这种“阿斯顿·马丁”细胞(笑声)
en:Around 1970, it was foundthat there were not only parts of the brain,but particular cells.&quot;Face cells&quot; were discovered around 1970.And now we knowthat there are hundreds of othersorts of cells,which can be very, very specific.So you may not only have&quot;car&quot; cells,you may have &quot;Aston Martin&quot; cells.(Laughter)I saw an Aston Martin this morning.I had to bring it in.And now it&#39;s in there somewhere.(Laughter)
时间：14:44
zh-cn:那么，这一程度的幻觉，只会由这一整块可以称作下颞叶皮质的区域形成视觉影像、幻象，或片段只有更高程度的幻觉才会有视觉以外的感官参与同时牵涉到记忆与情感在邦纳症候群中更高程度的幻觉并不会出现牵涉到初级视觉皮质的幻觉有上百上千甚至更多的图像、幻象，或残缺幻象这些都被编译在特定的脑细胞或脑细胞簇中
en:Now, at this level, in what&#39;s calledthe inferotemporal cortex,there are only visual images,or figments or fragments.It&#39;s only at higher levelsthat the other senses join inand there are connectionswith memory and emotion.And in the Charles Bonnet syndrome,you don&#39;t go to those higher levels.You&#39;re in these levelsof inferior visual cortexwhere you have thousandsand tens of thousandsand millions of images,or figments,or fragmentary figments,all neurally encodedin particular cellsor small clusters of cells.
时间：15:22
zh-cn:这些细胞通常参与形成感知和想象人们通常是无法意识到这一过程的只有当你的视力受损或丧失这一过程才会被干扰在这种情况下，你的感知不再正常一种不受控的、痉挛的释放活动发生在位于初级视觉皮质的这些视觉脑细胞中这种活动的结果就是，你突然看到一张脸，转瞬看到一辆车突然这，突然那大脑会尝试控制场面尝试使这一切符合逻辑但不会很成功
en:Normally these are all part ofthe integrated streamof perception, or imagination,and one is not conscious of them.It is only if oneis visually impaired or blindthat the process is interrupted.And instead of getting normal perception,you&#39;re getting an anarchic,convulsive stimulation, or release,of all of these visual cellsin the inferotemporal cortex.So, suddenly you see a face.Suddenly you see a car.Suddenly this, and suddenly that.The mind does its best to organizeand to give some sortof coherence to this,but not terribly successfully.
时间：16:03
zh-cn:这些现象最初被描述时人们相信，跟梦一样，这种幻觉也能被强行中止不过实际上患者表示“我认不出来谁是谁。完全没办法想到任何信息。””青蛙柯密特对我来说一点意义都没有啊。“把这种现象视作梦的一种是行不通的
en:When these were first described,it was thought thatthey could be interpreted like dreams.But in fact people say,&quot;I don&#39;t recognize the people.I can&#39;t form any associations.&quot;&quot;Kermit means nothing to me.&quot;You don&#39;t get anywherethinking of them as dreams.
时间：16:22
zh-cn:唔，我应该说得差不多了我再概括一下其实帮纳症候群是个常见现象你们想，在盲人人群中肯定有上百上千有这样的幻觉然而却不敢提起所以不管是病人，医生还是公众都有必要认识到这一现象的常见性最后我发现帮助别人认识大脑作用的原理是一件无比有趣而有意义的事情
en:Well, I&#39;ve moreor less said what I wanted.I think I just want to recapitulateand say this is common.Think of the number of blind people.There must be hundredsof thousands of blind peoplewho have these hallucinations,but are too scared to mention them.So this sort of thingneeds to be brought intonotice, for patients,for doctors, for the public.Finally, I think they areinfinitely interesting and valuable,for giving one some insightas to how the brain works.
时间：16:58
zh-cn:查尔斯·邦纳在250年前在对这些幻觉现象的观察的促使下，思考了这个问题心智的戏剧性是如何产生于大脑运作的呢？250年后的今天我想我们已经能够开始领悟这个精妙的过程非常感谢
en:Charles Bonnet said, 250 years ago —he wondered how,thinking these hallucinations,how, as he put it,the theater of the mindcould be generatedby the machinery of the brain.Now, 250 years later,I think we&#39;re beginningto glimpse how this is done.Thanks very much.
时间：17:19
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
时间：17:22
zh-cn:克里斯·安德森：非常精彩，非常感谢你你说得非常精到也很能理解你的病人你自己有没有过这些症状呢？
en:Chris Anderson: That was superb.Thank you so much.You speak about these thingswith so much insightand empathy for your patients.Have you yourself experiencedany of the syndromes you write about?
时间：17:35
zh-cn:奥利弗·萨克斯：我挺怕你问这个的(笑声)嗯，有，很大一部分事实上我自己也有一定的视力受损我的一只眼睛是看不到的，另一只视力也不大好我看到过几何幻觉不过最多也就这个程度了
en:Oliver Sacks: I was afraid you&#39;d ask that.(Laughter)Well, yeah, a lot of them.And actually I&#39;m a littlevisually impaired myself.I&#39;m blind in one eye,and not terribly good in the other.And I see the geometrical hallucinations.But they stop there.
时间：17:53
zh-cn:安德森：它们会不会让你感到很不安？或者说是不是因为你了解这一现象而没这么担心？
en:CA: And they don&#39;t disturb you?Because you understand what&#39;s doing it,it doesn&#39;t make you worried?
时间：17:57
zh-cn:萨克斯：耳鸣让我烦心得多耳鸣我也是听而不闻不过偶尔我会对自己的幻觉很感兴趣我还把它们画在了笔记本里我自己就曾做过功能性磁共振成像看看我的视觉皮层在造什么反我看到六边形的幻觉或更复杂的幻觉，往往伴随着偏头痛那是我就会想是不是别人也会有这样的幻觉洞穴壁画和装饰艺术是不是也取材于这种幻觉
en:OS: Well they don&#39;t disturb meany more than my tinnitus,which I ignore.They occasionally interest me,and I have many picturesof them in my notebooks.I&#39;ve gone and had an fMRI myself,to see how my visual cortexis taking over.And when I see all these hexagonsand complex things,which I also have,in visual migraine,I wonder whether everyonesees things like this,and whether thingslike cave art or ornamental artmay have been derived from them a bit.
时间：18:31
zh-cn:安德森：你今天的演讲非常非常精彩感谢你的分享
en:CA: That was an utterly,utterly fascinating talk.Thank you so much for sharing.
时间：18:35
zh-cn:萨克斯：谢谢，谢谢(掌声)
en:OS: Thank you. Thank you.(Applause)
