时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是一个植物遗传学家。我研究一些能使植物抵抗疾病和耐抗压的基因。在最近几年来，世界上成千上万的人相信转基因改造存在灾害性。今天，我将要提出一个不同的观点。
en:I am a plant geneticist.I study genes that make plantsresistant to diseaseand tolerant of stress.In recent years,millions of people around the worldhave come to believethat there&#39;s something sinisterabout genetic modification.Today, I am going to providea different perspective.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:首先，让我介绍我的丈夫，拉乌尔。他是一个有机农民。在他的农田里，他种着各种不同的农作物。这是许多生态农业试验的其中一个用来保持他的农田健康的实践。试想一些我们会得到的反应：“真的吗？一个有机农民和一个植物遗传学家？你们能达成什么共识？“
en:First, let me introduce my husband, Raoul.He&#39;s an organic farmer.On his farm, he plantsa variety of different crops.This is one of the manyecological farming practiceshe uses to keep his farm healthy.Imagine some of the reactions we get:&quot;Really? An organic farmerand a plant geneticist?Can you agree on anything?&quot;
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:嗯，我们可以，而且这并不困难，因为我们有共同的目标。我们想帮助滋养不断增长的人口而不进一步破坏环境。我相信这是我们时代的巨大挑战。
en:Well, we can, and it&#39;s not difficult,because we have the same goal.We want to help nourishthe growing populationwithout further destroyingthe environment.I believe this is the greatestchallenge of our time.
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:如今，基因改造不是新事物，事实上我们吃的所有食物都在一定程度上被基因改造了。让我来给你举几个例子。左边的图片是现代玉米的古老祖先。你看到一行覆盖着硬壳的玉米粒。除非你有一个锤子，墨西哥类蜀黍不适用于制作墨西哥饼。现在，看一下古老的香蕉祖先。你能看到巨大的种子。和引不起食欲的芽甘蓝，和茄子，如此美丽。
en:Now, genetic modification is not new;virtually everything we eathas been genetically modifiedin some manner.Let me give you a few examples.On the left is an imageof the ancient ancestor of modern corn.You see a single roll of grainthat&#39;s covered in a hard case.Unless you have a hammer,teosinte isn&#39;t good for making tortillas.Now, take a look atthe ancient ancestor of banana.You can see the large seeds.And unappetizing brussel sprouts,and eggplant, so beautiful.
时间： 2:01
zh-cn:如今，为了创造这些变种，多年来培育者已经用了很多不同的基因技术。其中一些是相当有创造性的，例如利用一个叫嫁接的程序把两种不同的品种结合在一起来创造一个一半是蕃茄和一半是土豆的品种。培育者还使用其它种类的基因技术，例如随机突变，能让植物产生非典型的突变基因。许多人用来喂婴儿的谷物大米，就是用上述的方法改进的。
en:Now, to create these varieties,breeders have used many differentgenetic techniques over the years.Some of them are quite creative,like mixing two different species togetherusing a process called graftingto create this varietythat&#39;s half tomato and half potato.Breeders have also usedother types of genetic techniques,such as random mutagenesis,which induces uncharacterized mutationsinto the plants.The rice in the cerealthat many of us fed our babieswas developed using this approach.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:现在，今天，培育者甚至有更多的选择。其中很多是非常精确的。
en:Now, today, breeders haveeven more options to choose from.Some of them are extraordinarily precise.
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:我想从我的工作中给大家举几个例子。我研究大米，这是多于全世界一半人口的主粮。每一年，有40%的潜在粮食产量都损失于虫害和疾病。为此，农民种植携带耐抗性基因的大米品种。这种方法已经被用了将近100年。但是，当我开始在研究院时，还没有人知道这些基因是什么。直到90年代才有科学家最终发现耐抗性的基因基础。在我的实验室里，为了免疫一种在亚非都很严重的细菌性疾病我们分离了一个基因。我们发现我们可以把这个基因移到一种通常容易染病的传统大米品种，而且你可以看到底下的两片叶子都很好地抵抗了感染。
en:I want to give you a couple examplesfrom my own work.I work on rice, which is a staple foodfor more than half the world&#39;s people.Each year, 40 percentof the potential harvestis lost to pest and disease.For this reason,farmers plant rice varietiesthat carry genes for resistance.This approach has been usedfor nearly 100 years.Yet, when I started graduate school,no one knew what these genes were.It wasn&#39;t until the 1990sthat scientists finally uncoveredthe genetic basis of resistance.In my laboratory, we isolated a genefor immunity to a very seriousbacterial disease in Asia and Africa.We found we could engineer the geneinto a conventional rice varietythat&#39;s normally susceptible,and you can see the two leaveson the bottom hereare highly resistant to infection.
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:现在，同一个月里我的研究室发布了我们对大米免疫基因的发现，我的朋友和同事 Dave Mackill 探访了我的办公室。他说：“七千万的大米农民正有种植大米的困难。”那是因为他们的农田都被洪水淹没了，那些农民每天靠着不够2美元来生活。虽然大米能很好地在积水里生长，但是如果它们被淹3天以上，大部分的大米品种都会死掉。随着天气的改变，洪灾的发生越来越不确定。他告诉我他的研究生 Kenong Xu 和他自己正在研究一种拥有惊人性能的古老大米品种，它能够在被完全淹没的情况下生存两周。他问我是否愿意帮他们分离这个基因。我答应了他，我非常激动，因为我知道如果我们能成功，我们可能可以帮助无数的农民种植大米，即使他们的农田被淹没。
en:Now, the same monththat my laboratory publishedour discovery on the rice immunity gene,my friend and colleague Dave Mackillstopped by my office.He said, &quot;Seventy million rice farmersare having trouble growing rice.&quot;That&#39;s because their fields are flooded,and these rice farmers are livingon less than two dollars a day.Although rice grows wellin standing water,most rice varieties will dieif they&#39;re submergedfor more than three days.Flooding is expectedto be increasingly problematicas the climate changes.He told me that his graduate studentKenong Xu and himselfwere studying an ancient variety of ricethat had an amazing property.It could withstand two weeksof complete submergence.He asked if I would be willingto help them isolate this gene.I said yes — I was very excited,because I knew if we were successful,we could potentially helpmillions of farmers grow riceeven when their fields were flooded.
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:Kenong 花了10年来寻找这个基因。然后有一天，他说：”请来看看这个实验。你一定要来看。“我去到温室看到传统品种被淹18天后死了，但是被我们通过基因改造植入之前发现的叫 Sub 1的新基因的大米品种存活了。Kenong 和我都很惊讶和兴奋，一个基因能够有如此巨大的影响。但是这只是一个温室实验。这在田地中是否也能成功呢？
en:Kenong spent 10 yearslooking for this gene.Then one day, he said,&quot;Come look at this experiment.You&#39;ve got to see it.&quot;I went to the greenhouse and I sawthat the conventional varietythat was flooded for 18 days had died,but the rice variety that wehad genetically engineeredwith a new gene we had discovered,called Sub1, was alive.Kenong and I were amazed and excitedthat a single gene could havethis dramatic effect.But this is just a greenhouse experiment.Would this work in the field?
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:现在，我将要给大家展示一个在国际大米研究所拍摄的时长4个月定时拍摄的视频。那里的培育者利用另一种叫精准培育的基因技术培育了一种携带 Sub 1 基因的大米品种。在左边，你可以看到 Sub 1 品种，在右边的是传统品种。两个品种开始都长得很好，但是接下来农田被淹了17天。你可以看到 Sub 1 品种长得极好。实际上，它还可以生产比传统品种多3.5倍的谷物。我很喜欢这个视频因为它展示了植物遗传学帮助农民的力量。上一年，在比尔和梅林达盖茨基金会的帮助下，三百五十万农民种植了 Sub 1 大米。
en:Now, I&#39;m going to show youa four-month time lapse videotaken at the InternationalRice Research Institute.Breeders there developeda rice variety carrying the Sub1 geneusing another genetic techniquecalled precision breeding.On the left, you can see the Sub1 variety,and on the rightis the conventional variety.Both varieties do very well at first,but then the field is flooded for 17 days.You can see the Sub1 variety does great.In fact, it producesthree and a half times more grainthan the conventional variety.I love this videobecause it shows the powerof plant genetics to help farmers.Last year, with the helpof the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,three and a half million farmersgrew Sub1 rice.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:现在，当我们在别处使用大米基因，把大米基因用在大米农作物上，或者甚至通过移植或随机突变把它和其它品种结合起来，很多人都不会反对基因改造。但是当我们从病毒或者细菌上提取基因然后植入到农作物上，许多人都说：”不好。“大家为什么会这样呢？原因是有时候就是最便宜，最安全，和最有效率的科技才能提高食物的安全性和改进可持续农业。我会给大家三个例子。
en:Now, many people don&#39;t mindgenetic modificationwhen it comes to moving rice genes around,rice genes in rice plants,or even when it comesto mixing species togetherthrough grafting or random mutagenesis.But when it comes to taking genesfrom viruses and bacteriaand putting them into plants,a lot of people say, &quot;Yuck.&quot;Why would you do that?The reason is that sometimesit&#39;s the cheapest, safest,and most effective technologyfor enhancing food securityand advancing sustainable agriculture.I&#39;m going to give you three examples.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:首先，看一下木瓜。很美味，是吗？但是现在，看一下这个木瓜。这个木瓜被感染了木瓜环斑病病毒。50年代，这种病毒几乎感染了夏威夷欧胡岛的全部木瓜作物。许多人认为夏威夷木瓜肯定完了，然而，一个本地夏威夷人，一个叫丹尼斯·贡萨斐斯的植物病理学家，决定尝试利用基因工程来对抗这种疾病。他提取了一小片病毒DNA然后把它插入木瓜的基因组中。这就像人类接种疫苗。现在，看一下他的农场试验。你可以看到被基因改造了的木瓜在中间。它不受感染的影响。环绕在外的传统木瓜则被病毒严重感染了。丹尼斯的先驱性工作援救了木瓜行业而受到赞扬。今天，20年之后，我们仍然没有其它方法控制这种病毒。没有有机的方法。也没有传统的方法。80%的夏威夷木瓜都是基因改造过的。
en:First, take a look at papaya.It&#39;s delicious, right?But now, look at this papaya.This papaya is infectedwith papaya ringspot virus.In the 1950s, this virusnearly wiped out the entire productionof papaya on the island of Oahu in Hawaii.Many people thoughtthat the Hawaiian papaya was doomed,but then, a local Hawaiian,a plant pathologistnamed Dennis Gonsalves,decided to try to fight this diseaseusing genetic engineering.He took a snippet of viral DNAand he inserted itinto the papaya genome.This is kind of like a humangetting a vaccination.Now, take a look at his field trial.You can see the geneticallyengineered papaya in the center.It&#39;s immune to infection.The conventional papaya around the outsideis severely infected with the virus.Dennis&#39; pioneering work is creditedwith rescuing the papaya industry.Today, 20 years later, there&#39;s still noother method to control this disease.There&#39;s no organic method.There&#39;s no conventional method.Eighty percent of Hawaiian papayais genetically engineered.
时间： 8:36
zh-cn:如今，可能有些人还为食物中有病毒基因而感到一点不安，但想一想：被基因改造的木瓜只是携带了微量的病毒。如果你咬一口被病毒感染的有机的或传统木瓜，你会嚼着多于十倍的病毒蛋白质。
en:Now, some of you may still feel a littlequeasy about viral genes in your food,but consider this:The genetically engineered papayacarries just a trace amount of the virus.If you bite into an organicor conventional papayathat is infected with the virus,you will be chewing on tenfoldmore viral protein.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:现在，看一下这只正在吃着茄子的害虫。你看到的棕色物质是虫粪，它是从害虫子的后端出来的。为了控制这种可以摧毁孟加拉国所有茄子作物的严重害虫，孟加拉国的农民每个星期喷射两至三次的杀虫剂，有时候当虫害严重时一天两次。但是我们知道一些杀虫剂对人体健康有很大害处，尤其当农民和他们的家人负担不起恰当的安全措施，就如这些孩子。在欠发达国家里，据估计每年有30万人死于杀虫剂的滥用和暴露。康奈尔和孟加拉国的科学家决定使用一种建立在有机农业方法上的基因技术来对抗这场疾病。有机农民，如我的丈夫乌拉尔，喷洒一种以细菌为基础的叫 B.T. 的杀虫剂。这种杀虫剂对毛虫很特别，实际上，它对人类，鱼和鸟都没有毒性。它比食盐的毒性更小。但这种方法在孟加拉国作用不大，因为这种杀虫剂很难得到，它们很贵，而且它们不能阻止害虫进入植物里。在基因方法里，科学家从细菌里切出一个基因然后把它直接放进茄子的基因组里。这个方法能不能够减低杀虫剂在孟加拉国的使用呢？当然可以。上一个季节，农民回应他们已经可以大大地减少杀虫剂的使用，几乎不需要使用。他们能够收割庄稼和为下一季度重新种植。
en:Now, take a look at this pestfeasting on an eggplant.The brown you see is frass,what comes outthe back end of the insect.To control this serious pest,which can devastate the entireeggplant crop in Bangladesh,Bangladeshi farmers spray insecticidestwo to three times a week,sometimes twice a day,when pest pressure is high.But we know that some insecticidesare very harmful to human health,especially when farmers and their familiescannot afford proper protection,like these children.In less developed countries,it&#39;s estimated that 300,000 peopledie every year because ofinsecticide misuse and exposure.Cornell and Bangladeshi scientistsdecided to fight this diseaseusing a genetic technique that buildson an organic farming approach.Organic farmers like my husband Raoulspray an insecticide called B.T.,which is based on a bacteria.This pesticide is very specificto caterpillar pests,and in fact, it&#39;s nontoxicto humans, fish and birds.It&#39;s less toxic than table salt.But this approachdoes not work well in Bangladesh.That&#39;s because these insecticide spraysare difficult to find, they&#39;re expensive,and they don&#39;t prevent the insectfrom getting inside the plants.In the genetic approach, scientistscut the gene out of the bacteriaand insert it directly intothe eggplant genome.Will this work to reduceinsecticide sprays in Bangladesh?Definitely.Last season, farmers reported they wereable to reduce their insecticide useby a huge amount, almost down to zero.They&#39;re able to harvestand replant for the next season.
时间：10:59
zh-cn:现在，我已经给大家举了几个例子关于基因工程如何能够用来抵抗害虫和疾病和用来减少杀虫剂的使用量。我最后的例子是关于基因工程在哪里能够被用来减低营养不良。在欠发达国家，每年有50万儿童因缺乏维生素A而失明。一半以上会死亡。基于这个原因，科学家在洛克菲勒基金的支持下，从基因上设计了一种能够生产 β-胡萝卜素的维生素A先驱的黄金大米。这是我们在胡萝卜里找到的同样色素。研究人员估计每天只要一杯黄金大米就可以拯救上千的儿童。但是黄金大米被反对基因工程的积极份子大力反对。就在上一年，积极份子们侵入和毁坏了在菲律宾的一片试验田。当我听到试验田被毁坏时，我在想他们是否知道他们毁坏的不止是一个科学研究项目，他们毁坏的是孩子们迫切需要的用来挽救他们视力和生命的药物。
en:Now, I&#39;ve given you a couple examplesof how genetic engineering can be usedto fight pests and diseaseand to reduce the amount of insecticides.My final example is an examplewhere genetic engineeringcan be used to reduce malnutrition.In less developed countries,500,000 children go blind every yearbecause of lack of Vitamin A.More than half will die.For this reason, scientists supportedby the Rockefeller Foundationgenetically engineered a golden riceto produce beta-carotene,which is the precursor of Vitamin A.This is the same pigmentthat we find in carrots.Researchers estimate that just one cupof golden rice per daywill save the livesof thousands of children.But golden rice is virulently opposedby activists who areagainst genetic modification.Just last year,activists invaded and destroyeda field trial in the Philippines.When I heard about the destruction,I wondered if they knew that theywere destroying much morethan a scientific research project,that they were destroying medicinesthat children desperately neededto save their sight and their lives.
时间：12:16
zh-cn:我的一些朋友和家人仍然很担心：你怎么知道食物里的基因是安全可吃的？我解释了基因工程，在物种间移取基因的方法已经在酒中，在药物中，在植物中，在芝士中被运用了40多年。一直以来，都没有一个对人类健康或者环境造成伤害的个案。但是我并不是要求你要相信我。科学不是一个信仰体系。我的观点不重要。我们相信的是证据。经过20多年由成千上万独立的科学家谨慎的研究和严格的同业互查，世界上每一个主要的科学机构已经断定市场上的所有庄稼都是可安全食用的而且转基因的方法没有比传统基因改造方法更危险。这些机构恰好是大部份人在其它重要科学问题上，例如全球气候改变或者疫苗安全问题上都会相信的同样的机构
en:Some of my friends and family still worry:How do you know genesin the food are safe to eat?I explained the genetic engineering,the process of movinggenes between species,has been used for more than 40 yearsin wines, in medicine,in plants, in cheeses.In all that time, there hasn&#39;t beena single case of harmto human health or the environment.But I say, look, I&#39;m notasking you to believe me.Science is not a belief system.My opinion doesn&#39;t matter.Let&#39;s look at the evidence.After 20 years of careful studyand rigorous peer reviewby thousands of independent scientists,every major scientific organizationin the world has concludedthat the crops currentlyon the market are safe to eatand that the processof genetic engineeringis no more risky than older methodsof genetic modification.These are precisely the sameorganizations that most of us trustwhen it comes to otherimportant scientific issuessuch as global climate changeor the safety of vaccines.
时间：13:26
zh-cn:乌拉尔和我相信，与其担心食物中的基因，我们更需要关注如何帮助儿童健康成长。我们必需问一问农村社区的农民是否能够营生，和每个人是否都能买得起食物。我们必需努力将环境退化最小化。关于对植物基因激烈的争论和错误的信息最令我害怕的是那些最需要这种科技的最贫穷的人可能失去食物正是因为一些有足够食物的人的不明确的忧虑和偏见。
en:Raoul and I believe that, instead ofworrying about the genes in our food,we must focus on how we can helpchildren grow up healthy.We must ask if farmersin rural communities can thrive,and if everyone can afford the food.We must try to minimizeenvironmental degradation.What scares me most aboutthe loud arguments and misinformationabout plant geneticsis that the poorest peoplewho most need the technologymay be denied access because ofthe vague fears and prejudicesof those who have enough to eat.
时间：13:58
zh-cn:在我们前面有着巨大的挑战。让我们庆祝和利用科学的创新。这是我们的责任去做任何我们可以做的事情来帮助减轻人类遭受的磨难和保卫环境。
en:We have a huge challenge in front of us.Let&#39;s celebrate scientificinnovation and use it.It&#39;s our responsibilityto do everything we can to helpalleviate human sufferingand safeguard the environment.
时间：14:12
zh-cn:谢谢！
en:Thank you.
时间：14:14
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：14:16
zh-cn:谢谢！
en:Thank you.
时间：14:19
zh-cn:克里斯·安德森：热烈地争论了。反对转基因生物的人，就我理解而言，主要的批评来自于两点。一点是复杂性和不可预料的结果。大自然是这样一个非常复杂的机器。如果我们拿出这些我们所创造的崭新的没有经过长年进化演变的基因，然后让它们和现有的基因开始的混合一起，难道不会引发一些大变动或者问题吗？尤其当你加进由一些企业已经摆出的商业动机。这些忧虑是那些动机意味着作出的决定不是基于纯粹的科学依据，就算是，那也会有不可预料的后果。我们怎么知道没有不可预计的后果的大风险呢？往往地我们对大自然的小修改会导致很大的，不可预知的后果和连锁反应。
en:Chris Anderson: Powerfully argued.The people who argue against GMOs,as I understand it, the core piececomes from two things.One, complexity andunintended consequence.Nature is this incredibly complex machine.If we put out these brand new genesthat we&#39;ve created,that haven&#39;t been challengedby years of evolution,and they started mixing upwith the rest of what&#39;s going on,couldn&#39;t that trigger some kindof cataclysm or problem,especially when you add inthe commercial incentivethat some companies haveto put them out there?The fear is that those incentivesmean that the decision is not madeon purely scientific grounds,and even if it was, that there would beunintended consequences.How do we know that there isn&#39;ta big risk of some unintended consequence?Often our tinkerings with naturedo lead to big, unintended consequencesand chain reactions.
时间：15:07
zh-cn:帕梅拉·罗纳德：好，那么在商业影响下，有一点非常值得理解的是，在发达国家，在美国的农民，几乎所有的农民，不论他们是有机的还是传统的，他们买种子公司生产的种子。所以这里当然有商业利益去卖许多的种子，但是希望他们卖的是农民想买的种子。在欠发达世界就不同了。那里的农民买不起的某些种子那些种子就不会被销售。这些种子通过传统的有资格认证的团体被自由分配，因此，在欠发达国家种子能不受限制地被使用是很重要的。
en:Pamela Ronald: Okay,so on the commercial aspects,one thing that&#39;s really importantto understand is that,in the developed world,farmers in the United States,almost all farmers, whetherthey&#39;re organic or conventional,they buy seed produced by seed companies.So there&#39;s definitely a commercialinterest to sell a lot of seed,but hopefully they&#39;re selling seedthat the farmers want to buy.It&#39;s different in theless developed world.Farmers there cannot afford the seed.These seeds are not being sold.These seeds are being distributed freelythrough traditional kindsof certification groups,so it is very importantin less developed countriesthat the seed be freely available.
时间：15:44
zh-cn:CA: 会不会有一些积极分子会说这实际上是阴谋的一部份呢？这是海洛因策略。你种植东西，人们没有选择却永远沉溺于这些东西？
en:CA: Wouldn&#39;t some activists say that thisis actually part of the conspiracy?This is the heroin strategy.You seed the stuff,and people have no choicebut to be hooked on these seeds forever?
时间：15:53
zh-cn:PR: 确实有很多阴谋论，但这是不一样的。例如，被分配的种子，耐渍型大米，通过印度和孟加拉国种子认定机构被自由分配，这样就没有了商业利益。黄金大米是在洛克菲勒基金的支持下发展的。同样地，也是被自由分发的。在这种情况下没有商业利益。现在来讨论一下其它问题，嗯，关于混合基因，这会有什么不可预料的结果吗？当然 — 每次我们做不一样的事情都会有想像不到的后果，但是我想说的其中一点是我们一直对我们植物做的看似疯狂的事情，用辐射或化学诱变产生基因变异。这包含上千个不确定的突变，而且这比起许多现代方法有着甚至更高的的不确定后果风险。因此十分重要的不能使用基因改造生物因为在科学上是没意义的。我认为讨论关于特定的农作物和特定的产品，和考虑消费者的需要是很重要的。
en:PR: There are a lot of conspiracy theoriesfor sure, but it doesn&#39;t work that way.For example, the seed that&#39;s beingdistributed, the flood-tolerant rice,this is distributed freelythrough Indian and Bangladeshiseed certification agencies,so there&#39;s no commercial interest at all.The golden rice was developed throughsupport of the Rockefeller Foundation.Again, it&#39;s being freely distributed.There are no commercial profitsin this situation.And now to address your other questionabout, well, mixing genes,aren&#39;t there some unintended consequences?Absolutely — every timewe do something different,there&#39;s an unintended consequence,but one of the points I was trying to makeis that we&#39;ve been doingkind of crazy things to our plants,mutagenesis using radiationor chemical mutagenesis.This induces thousandsof uncharacterized mutations,and this is even a higher riskof unintended consequencethan many of the modern methods.And so it&#39;s really importantnot to use the term GMObecause it&#39;s scientifically meaningless.I feel it&#39;s very important to talkabout a specific cropand a specific product, and think aboutthe needs of the consumer.
时间：17:04
zh-cn:CA: 在很多人中有一种思维模式，就是天然就是天然，它是纯粹的和原始的若是稍作修改就是作法自毙。这种想法在一定程度上很危险，而且我想你指的是那整个模式是误会了自然的本质。在自然中，基因改变的相互作用更混乱得多，而且是无论如何一直在发生着的。
en:CA: So part of what&#39;s happening hereis that there&#39;s a mental modelin a lot of people that nature is nature,and it&#39;s pure and pristine,and to tinker with it is Frankensteinian.It&#39;s making something that&#39;s puredangerous in some way,and I think you&#39;re sayingthat that whole modeljust misunderstands how nature is.Nature is a much more chaoticinterplay of genetic changesthat have been happeningall the time anyway.
时间：17:27
zh-cn:PR：没错，而且这里没有一种东西是纯正的食物。我的意思是，如果你不可以喷洒杀虫剂或者改造基因，那你就只能吃虫粪了。因此是没有纯粹的东西的。
en:PR: That&#39;s absolutely true, and there&#39;sno such thing as pure food.I mean, you could not sprayeggplant with insecticidesor not genetically engineer it,but then you&#39;d be stuck eating frass.So there&#39;s no purity there.
时间：17:40
zh-cn:CA：帕姆·罗纳德，谢谢。很有说服力的演说。PR：非常感谢！我很感激！（掌声）
en:CA: Pam Ronald, thank you. That was powerfully argued.PR: Thank you very much. I appreciate it.(Applause)
