时间： 0:11
zh-cn:凡有信仰之人，皆会猜想天堂的模样。愚见则是天堂就是好奇心得到满足。我把天堂想像成一朵非常舒适的云朵，我能用我的肚子趴在上面，就如同我小时候看电视那样，用我的手肘撑着头。我可以想看哪就看哪，我可以看我经常想看的电影。有时你也会有如此出神的感觉，譬如当你在纽约的地铁阅读时，你会感觉到怡人且轻松的气氛。
en:Those of us who believe in heaven have some sort of idea of what heaven would be.And in my idea, heaven is satisfied curiosity.I think of heaven as a really comfortable cloudwhere I can just lie down with my belly down,like I was watching TV when I was a child, and my elbows up.And I can basically look everywhere I want,see every movie I&#39;ve always wanted to see.And in the same kind of trance that you can feel sometimesin the subway in New York when you&#39;re reading,there&#39;s something really soothing and easy.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:有趣的是，从某种程度上看，我已经拥有了这种天堂般的生活。因为我发现了— —当然它花了我一段时间去理解它，当我在24岁的时候，我发现，我和艺术品在一起比跟人在一起感觉更好，而后我决定要利用这份热情。生活上，我基本上处于沉醉于万物的状态。而当我环顾四周时，我看到的一切都仅仅是一个长长的故事的开端。
en:Well, the funny thing is that I already have that kind of life, in a way,because I discovered ...it took me a while to understand it,but when I discovered around 24 years of age that I was much more comfortablewith objects than with people, I finally decided to really embrace this passion.And I basically live my life in sort of a trance,and I look around and everything I see is just the beginning of a long story.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:给你们举个例子吧，2004年MoMA举行了名为“谦虚设计”的展览。当时我们在皇后区。我们在市中心建一幢很大，很大，很大的建筑，所以我们在一个很小，很小，很小的偏僻地区。那是我职业生涯中最有趣的时刻之一。
en:Just to give you an example:this is the exhibition, Humble Masterpieces, as it was at MoMA in 2004.We were in Queens,we were building the big, big, big, big building in Midtown,so we were in the small, small, small boondocks.That was one of the funnest moments of my career.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:但是它不仅如此。这个字体是海尔维希字体。今年是它的第50周年。因此我开始想：Max Miedinger以及其他所有的瑞士设计师一起试图超越Akzidenz Grotesk，设计出一种新的无衬线字体。电影已经开始在我脑中播放了。当然了，你可以想象下“ 谦虚设计”展览，这是相同的一件被复制了上百次。而与此同时，我确实希望，这个展览的真正目的会在你们身上产生相同的影响。
en:But it&#39;s not only that.The typeface — the typeface is Helvetica;it&#39;s its 50th anniversary this year.And so I start thinking — Max Miedinger and all those Swiss designers together,trying to outdo Akzidenz-Grotesk, and come up with a new sans-serif typeface —and the movie starts playing in my head already.And of course, you can imagine, with Humble Masterpiecesit was the same thing multiplied by a hundred.And I do hope, by the way, that the real goal of the exhibitionis going to have the same effect on you.
时间： 1:51
zh-cn:展览旨在成为一种来让孩子们思考他们所做的事情的方式。当他们在家里做作业的时候，我很希望他们能够走进厨房看看橱柜，或者他们母亲的手袋，来做博物馆级的设计收藏，而不是拿两个黄豆在盘子上玩。
en:The exhibition was meant to be a way to have children think of doing ...you know when they do homeworks at home?Instead of having a tray with two peas, I was hoping that they would gointo the kitchen cabinet or the mother&#39;s handbagand do their museum-quality design collection on a tray.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:因此每个人都一直在提议设置新的“谦虚设计”展览。在MoMA我们放了很多书在那，仅仅是为了让人们就他们眼中的“谦虚设计”给出建议。而当你做这个的时候，通常呢，你得到的80%的建议都是和色情有关的，只有20%是真正的建议。但是，几乎所有的建议都是好的建议。
en:So, everybody&#39;s always suggesting new humble masterpieces,and at MoMA we put out some booksjust for people to suggest their own humble masterpieces.And when you do that, usually you get 80 percent porn and 20 percent real suggestions,and instead it was all — almost — all good suggestions.
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:而爱国热情也在那个时候流行起来。比如说，我之前并不知道是西班牙人发明了拖把，但是他们非常自豪。因此每个西班牙人说“la frego”，而意大利人发明了披萨。但我想给你们看的是，同样来自肯塔基的非常好的建议：他们有私酿酒、洗衣液以及液订钉。
en:And a lot of nationalism came in.For instance, I didn&#39;t know that the Spaniards invented the mop,but they were very proudso every Spaniard said &quot;la frego.&quot; And Italians did the pizza.And I wanted to show you, also, the suggestions from Kentucky are pretty good —they had moonshine, laundry detergents and liquid nails.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:继续，我刚刚得到了(笑声）这个来自米兰的提议—这是交通分隔物，我们叫做panettone, 它是上了漆的。你们知道吗，整个米兰都是用的这些漂亮的混凝土物体来来定义交通线路的。现在想一下你们自己的（经验）。你可以把它们发给我们，只要你愿意我们欢迎之至。
en:And I keep it going, and I just got,(Laughter)also, this suggestion from Milan:it&#39;s our traffic divider, which we call &quot;panettone,&quot; and it&#39;s painted;it&#39;s these beautiful concrete things that you use around Milanto define all the lanes of traffic.So, think of your own,send them on if you want to — they&#39;re always welcome.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:但是这样一个展览让我对一个问题了解更多了，自从我进入现代艺术博物馆我就开始思考这个问题，已有13年了吧。我是意大利人。在意大利，设计随处可见。要知道，不同的地方的人对事物的喜恶是差异甚大的。前不久我在阿根廷和乌拉圭，在这些国家常见的建造住房的方法有着非常漂亮的现代感这是其它地方所看不到的，但是（两国）的当代艺术非常糟糕。
en:But an exhibition like that made me understand even morewhat I&#39;ve been thinking of for 13 years ever since I got to MoMA.I&#39;m Italian. In Italy, design is normal.Different parts of the world have a knack for different things.I was just recently in Argentina and in Uruguay,and the default way of building homes in the country is a beautiful modernismthat you don&#39;t see elsewhere, but the contemporary art was terrible.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:在意大利——尤其是在米兰当代艺术真的没有占据多大席位。但是设计呢—我的天！不用去高级商场，你在随便进一个拐角处的商店都会发现里面精致的设计让每个人觉得我们是如此的时髦。这还仅仅是你在商店里面发现的东西。
en:In Italy, in Milan especially,contemporary art really doesn&#39;t have that much of a place.But design — oh, my God.What you find at the store at the corner, without going to any kind of fancy store,is the kind of refined design that makes everybody think thatwe are all so sophisticated.It&#39;s just what you find at the store.
时间： 3:53
zh-cn:而纽约对现代艺术有着另一种偏好。我对此一向非常吃惊。三岁的孩子知道Richard Serra是谁并且还会带你去艺术展览。但是设计，因为某些原因，仍然仅仅被误解为一种装饰这确实很有意思。当我提到“设计”这个词的时候，很多人想起这是一种过度设计—在这个例子中，确实是故意过度设计，但是装饰，室内装饰，他们就想起是某个人在挑选建筑材料。
en:And New York has another kind of knack for contemporary art.I&#39;m always amazed — three-year-olds know who Richard Serra isand take you to the galleries.But design, for some reason, is still misunderstood for decoration.It&#39;s really interesting:what many people think when I say the word &quot;design&quot; is they think ofthis kind of overdesigned — in this case, it&#39;s overdesigned on purpose, but —decoration, interior decoration.They think of somebody choosing fabrics.
时间： 4:24
zh-cn:这些当然是设计的一部分，但设计还可以做的更多但它也可能是在耶路撒冷的一个设计学校为了找出一个更好的方法来为人们设计防毒面具。因为，你知道，以色列给每个人包括婴儿配置了防毒面具。。因此，这些设计家所做的就是找到一个方法来降低领口，这样的话像青少年就可以同时吸着可乐了，而不是被勒的喘不过气来。
en:Design can be that, of course, but it can also be this.It can be a school of design in Jerusalem that tries to find a better wayto design gas masks for people,because, as you know, Israel deploys one gas mask per person including babies.So, what these designers do is they find a way to lower the neckline,so that instead of being completely strangled, a teenager can also sip a Coke.
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:当地人这样设计婴儿的防毒面具是因为这样的话婴儿可以被其父母保护着，因为身体的亲近是如此重要，然后他们能为孩子做个小的帐篷。不管你觉得这有多么的粗浅和简陋，这确实是一个非常好的设计。虽然这和设计奢华家具相距甚远，但却是我的激情所在。
en:They tried to make a toddler&#39;s gas mask in such a way that the toddlercan be held by the parent because proximity of the body is so important.And then they make a little tent for the baby.However cruel, however ruthless you can think this is it&#39;s a great design,and it is miles away from the fancy furniture,but still, it&#39;s part of my same field of passion.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:我从始至今在MoMA做的是试图利用MoMA的能力。因为能在那里工作实在是太棒了。你真的有能力，这种能力能让人们知道你的展览或者来观看。而这种力量，因为是在一个设计博物馆，我不可能有太多的游客。我非常清楚观光客中的80%都是去那看毕加索和马蒂斯。要是他们刚好来到我们的展区并驻足观看的话，我就设法将他们留在那里。
en:What I&#39;ve been doing at MoMA since the beginning is to try toharness the power of MoMAbecause it&#39;s great to work there. You really have powerin that people usually tend to know about your exhibition or see the exhibitions,and that is power because in a design museum I wouldn&#39;t have as many visitors.I&#39;m very well aware that 80 percent of my public is there to see Picasso and Matisse,and then they stumble upon my show and I keep them there.
时间： 5:44
zh-cn:但是我一直在尝试做的也是我的部门的MoMA的策展人自博物馆1929年建立后一直在做的东西，也就是尝试着发现世界上正在发生些什么，并且利用设计的威力使得事物变得更加美好。那有着很多的例子。实际上，Eames Demetrius可能现在正坐在观众席里。但是从他的曾祖父还有祖父的例子来看，哦，我总是搞不太清楚这一关系但是，Charles Eames第一次，接着Charles和Ray Eames第二次都参加了两个比赛。一个是在1940年，这是关于有机家具的比赛。而第二个比赛是在1948年，是为从战场归来的美国兵们设计低成本的家具，而这也激起了整个家具生产产业的火热。那个时候就有了非常低价的优秀的设计。在建筑学和设计学上出现了很多关于“设计让生活更美好”这样的导向的项目。
en:But what I&#39;ve been trying to do is something that the curators at MoMAin my department have been doing ever since the museum was founded in 1929,which is to try and see what&#39;s going on in the worldand try to use that authority in order to make things better.There have been many episodes,and actually Eames Demetrius may be here in the audience,but in two instances, his great-grandfather, grandfather —I&#39;m always a little perplexed about the relation, exactly —Charles Eames the first time and then Charles and Ray Eames the second timewere involved in two competitions:one in 1940, it was about organic furniture, and the second one in 1948was low-cost furniture for the GIs coming back from the warthat then sparked a whole line of furniture.And then there was good design for very low price.There were a lot of programs in architecture and design that were aboutpointing people in the direction of a better design for a better life.
时间： 6:46
zh-cn:所以呢，我从95年开始就开始从事这个被叫做“创新材料与当代设计”的展览。这是一个新的阶段，在我看来，在设计界，材料可以被设计家们所应用。而这也让我接触到了多样的设计例子，比如加州Lawrence Livermore实验室的气凝胶。那时，这些产品才开始被推广进入市场。同时，Takeshi Ishiguro的杰作也问世了，他用大米面团做成了这些漂亮的盐罐和胡椒罐。所以，你们看，这些设计涵盖的范围是相当广的。
en:So, I started out in &#39;95 with this exhibition that was calledMutant Materials in Contemporary Design.It was about a new phase, in my opinion, in the world of designin that materials could be customized by the designers themselves.And that put me in touch with such diverse design examples as the aerogelsfrom the Lawrence Livermore Lab in California;at that time, they were beginning to be brought into the civilian market.And at the same time, the gorgeous work of Takeshi Ishiguro, who did thesebeautiful salt-and-pepper containers that are made of rice dough.So you see, the range is really quite diverse.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:另外举例说说2001年的另一个命名为“工作环境”的展览吧，在那我请不同的设计家们就那时世界上新的工作风格想出点子来。你们看到的上面那个是IDEO设计的，很漂亮，它名字是“个人天空”。这一构思是假设如果你有一个小卧室，你可以在你的头顶上按上一片天空，那你就有了你自己的“Cielo in Una Stanza”一片天空。这是一首非常有名的意大利歌曲。
en:And then, for instance, this other exhibitionthat was entitled Workspheres in 2001,where I asked different designers to come up with ideas forthe new type of work styles that were happening in the world at that time.And you see IDEO there.It was beautiful — it was called Personal Skies.The idea was that if you had a cubicle, you could project a sky on topof your head and have your own &quot;Cielo in Una Stanza&quot; — a sky in a room —it&#39;s a very famous Italian song.
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:其他的例子也不胜枚举。Marti Guixe关注的是在上班途中怎样工作。Hella Jongerus，我最喜欢的设计家，关注的是如何在家里工作。而这不禁让我想要介绍一个关于设计的非常重要的理念给你们。设计家是世界上最大的合成家。他们所做的出彩之处就是将人类需求、以及现在在经济、材料、可持续性问题上的现状结合考虑问题。而他们最终做的，如果是好的的话，将会远远优于部分的集合。
en:And other examples: this was Marti Guixe about working on the go,and Hella Jongerius, my favorite, about how to work at home.And this lets me introduce a very important idea about design:designers are the biggest synthesizers in the world.What they do best is make a synthesis of human needs,current conditions in economy, in materials, in sustainability issues,and then what they do at the end — if they are good —is much more than the sum of its parts.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:而Hella Jongerius是能将合成做的很好也很有趣。她工作的理念是—你知道，当每个人都在说“你真的需要把工作休闲分开”的时候，相反的，她却在说“不不，工作和休闲可以共存的。”真的，这多棒啊，这就像是2001年的流行的电视餐一样。
en:Hella Jongerius is a person that is able to make a synthesisthat is really quite amazingand also quite hilarious.The idea behind her work was thatat that time, everybody was saying you have to really divide your life.Instead, she said, &quot;No, no. Work and leisure can be together.&quot;Yeah, that&#39;s particularly gorgeous — it&#39;s the TV dinner of 2001.
时间： 8:48
zh-cn:虽然还有很多其他的展览，但我不想完全只关注我的展示。相反地，我想谈谈一些伟大的设计家们。我一直都对特立独行者（maverick）这个词颇为不解，你知道，13年前我来到美国了，直到今天，我还在问，这是什么意思呢？所以今天早上，我翻开字典，上面讲到曾经有位绅士没有在他的牛身上烙印，因此他就没有随其他人的大流。因此，他就是个特立独行者。由此可见，设计家们的确需要成为特立独行者，因为设计一件物品，以及对于一个我们以前丢失了的物品来说，最佳方式就是当它从来没存在过或者相信人们用上这一新品之后会有新的行为。
en:There have been many other exhibitions in the meantime,but I don&#39;t want to focus on my shows.I would like, instead, to talk about how great some designers are.I&#39;ve always had a hard time with the word &quot;maverick.&quot;I came to the United States 13 years ago, and to this dayI have to ask, &quot;What does that mean?&quot;So, this morning I went to see on the dictionary and it said thatthere was this gentleman that was not branding its cattle.Therefore, he was not following everybody&#39;s lead,and therefore, he was a maverick.So, designers do need to be mavericks,because the best way to design a successful object —and also an object that we were missing before —is to pretend that either it never existedor that people will be able to have a new behavior with it.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:因此，“安全”是我在MoMA做的最后一个展览。它在去年年初结束了，这一展览是处理安全以及保护的设计。说来话长，因此它在2001前就开始了，当时它叫做“急救”。而当时正好9/11事件发生了，我不由得一惊，随后我便取消了展览。直到慢慢地，这一展览又回来了，像一盛满水的玻璃杯而不是半满的水杯，它是关于保护和安全的。
en:So, Safe is the last exhibition that I did at MoMAand it ended at the beginning of last year.It was about design that deals with safety and deals with protection.It&#39;s a long story because it started before 2001 and it was called Emergency.And then when 9/11 happened, I had a shock and I canceled the exhibitionuntil, slowly but surely, it came back —as a half-full glass instead of half-empty —and it was about protection and safety.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:展览的范围从完整的一套清雷设备到水质净化消毒管道。因此，这场展览非常广泛的。它同时也有，你知道，我和Cameron在一起的合作。你们在他的网站上看到的一些东西确实也在展览中出现了。有趣的事情是我们并不需要再讨论设计和艺术了。但是设计是使用它所能用到的一切工具来说明一个观点。这是一种经济意识，也是一种幽默感的体现。
en:But it ranged from such items as a complete de-mining equipment tothese kind of water-sterilizing straws,so it was really wide-ranging.It also had ... you know, Cameron and I worked a little bit together,and some of the entries that you see in his website were actually in the exhibition.But what is interesting is that we don&#39;t need to talk about design and art anymore;design uses whatever tools it has at its disposal in order to make a point.It&#39;s a sense of economy and a sense, also, of humor.
时间：10:35
zh-cn:这是来自南非的Ralph Borland的一件非常漂亮的设计。这是一个为非暴力反抗设计的外套。设计的理念是当你在参加暴动以及反抗时，警察靠近你了，你正穿着这一外套。它看起来像一颗巨大的心脏，而它在你心脏的位置有一个扩音器，这样你的心跳声就被放大了。而警察也被提醒，就像一朵鲜花在来复枪口前一样。而且，你可以想象，当一群人都穿着这样相同的外套时，集体的心跳声会吓到警察。
en:This is a beautiful project by Ralph Borland, who&#39;s South African.It&#39;s a suit for civil disobedience.The idea is that when you have a riot or a protestand the police comes towards you, you&#39;re wearing this thing —it&#39;s like a big heart and it has a loudspeaker over your heartso your heartbeat is amplified —and the police is reminded;it&#39;s like having a flower in front of the rifle.And also, you can imagine, a whole group of people with the same suitwill have this mounting collective heartbeat that will be scary to the police.
时间：11:06
zh-cn:你知道，设计家们有时并不制作一些有即刻功能性的事物，但是他们对于我们对事物的理解力却非常有用。。Dunne和Raby，也就是Tony Dunne 和Fiona Raby设计了一系列可以反映我们的痛苦和妄想情绪的物品像这种可以隐藏的家具一样，它是用和你地板一样的木材制作的，因此它可以完全消失不见，你也可以把它藏起来。而更好的一个是这个喜人的原子蘑菇云，这个发现也让我有幸在美国《原子科学家公报》上发表文章。在MoMA工作前这是不可能发生的。而这把法拉第座椅可以保护你避免辐射的侵害。
en:So, designers sometimes don&#39;t do things that are immediatelyfunctional, but they&#39;re functional to our understanding of issues.Tony Dunne and Fiona Rabydid this series of objects that are about our anguish and our paranoia,like this hideaway furniture that&#39;s made in the same wood as your floorso it disappears completely and you can hide away;or even better, the huggable atomic mushroom, which got me an articleon the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists of the United States —I don&#39;t think it ever happened before at MoMA;or this Faraday Chair that is supposed to protect you from radiations.
时间：11:40
zh-cn:但是展览中有趣的事是发现最终庇护物就是你的自我意识。已经有一些设计家开始在这个特殊的领域上工作。来自荷兰的设计家Cindy van der Bremen,为穆斯林妇女设计了一系列的专用运动服，可以让她们能滑雪，打网球，做任何她们想做的运动，而不用担心暴露自己。
en:But the interesting thing in the exhibition is the discovery thatthe ultimate shelter is your sense of self,and there are quite a few designers that are working on this particular topic.This is Cindy van den Bremen, who is a Dutch designerthat&#39;s done this series of Capsters.They are athletic gear for Muslim women that enable them to ski, play tennis,do whatever they want to do without having to uncap themselves.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:有的时候，做这样的工作让你有机会发现极好的设计理念。Twan Verdonck非常年轻，我猜他可能也就27岁吧。通过与心理学家合作，针对有心理缺陷的孩子，他制作出一系列玩具可以对他们起到知觉刺激作用。这些玩具真的棒极了。这个毛绒玩具，好像要抱着你一样，而有孤独病的孩子都喜欢被紧紧地拥抱，因此这一玩具里面装有弹簧还有镜子，这样孩子们就能从镜子里看到自己，以重新获得归属感。
en:And sometimes by doing this kind of research,you encounter such beautiful ideas of design.Twan Verdonck is really young, I think he&#39;s 27, and working together withsome psychologist he did a series of toys that are for sensorialstimulation for children that have psychological impairments.They&#39;re quite beautiful.They range from this fluffy toy that is about hugging you —because autistic children like to be hugged tight, so it has a spring inside —all the way to this doll with a mirror so the child can see him or herselfin the mirror and regain a sense of self.
时间：12:44
zh-cn:设计其实是从不同的领域角度来看待整个世界。前不久，我在土耳其参加了一个关于奢侈品的会议，这是由《国际先驱导报》组织的。有意思的是，正好我是最后一个发言者，而在我之前，有很多人确实是在谈论奢侈品。我并不想成为一个在聚会上扫兴的人，可是同时我又感觉到我不得不把演讲拉回现实。
en:Design really looks upon the whole worldand it considers the world in all of its different ranges.I was recently at a conference on luxury organized by the Herald Tribune in Istanbul.And it was really interesting because I was the last speakerand before me there were people that were really talking about luxury,and I didn&#39;t want to be a party pooper but at the same timeI felt that I had to kind of bring back the discourse to reality.
时间：13:07
zh-cn:事实是奢侈其实有很多种，对于没有拥有太多奢侈的人们来说，奢侈是相对的。为了说明这一点，我会举两个例子，他们的灵感都来自于经济学。这个是在古巴，这是一个可循环的吱吱叫的自行车铃的玩具。而这个呢，是用大米袋子做的雨衣。他们都很漂亮，但是他们的漂亮源于他们的设计是如此的灵巧与实惠。
en:And the truth is that there are very different kinds of luxury,and there&#39;s luxury that is relative for people that don&#39;t have that much.I want to make this point by showing you two examples ofdesign coming from a sense of economy — very, very clear limits.This is Cuba, and this is the recycling of a squeaky toy as a bicycle bell,and this is a raincoat that is made out of rice sacks.So they&#39;re quite beautiful, but they&#39;re beautiful becausethey&#39;re so smart and economical.
时间：13:43
zh-cn:现在看到的是来自圣保罗的两兄弟Fernando和Humberto Campana的作品。他们受到其身边的贫困和智慧的启发，然后制作了一件件家具，现在卖出了一大笔钱。而这也正是市场本身的不可思议之处。
en:And here is the work of two brothers from Sao Paulo,Fernando and Humberto Campana, who got inspired by the poverty andsmartness that they saw around them to do pieces of furniture that now areselling for an enormous amount of money.But that&#39;s because of the kind of strangeness of the market itself.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:说真的，设计包罗万象。有趣的是，随着技术的进步，当我们变得越来越无线化和无形化的时候，设计家们却想让我们能实地做些事。有时候，设计师还会让你拿起大锤。你看，这一套家具需要你动手才能用。即使是这把椅子，你也需要自己打开再坐在上面，这样它就留下了你的烙印。这一系列的物品都是都是巴塞罗那的Ana Mir设计的。他的作品从用人的头发做成的装饰耳环到巧克力奶头，再到引诱你的爱人去舔你脚趾的趾间糖果。(笑声)
en:So really, design takes everything into account,and the interesting thing is that as the technology advances,as we become more and more wireless and impalpable,designers, instead, want us to be hands-on.Sometimes hammer-on.This is a whole series of furniture that wants to engage you physically.Even this chair that you have to open up and then sit on so that it takesyour imprint, all the way to this beautiful series of objectsthat are considered design by Ana Mir in Barcelona.From this kind of bijou made with human hair to these chocolate nipplesto these intra-toe candies that your lover is supposed to suck from your toes.(Laughter)
时间：14:44
zh-cn:这些设计都非常漂亮，因为不知为何，这都是设计的一个华丽瞬间。很多年前，我听说了一位维也纳的叫Marchetti的数学家，他解释了在军事生产部门的创新是秘密的创新。而这一创新和民间创新就像两条相反的正弦曲线。这是有道理的。在战争年代，技术创新层出不穷。但是在物资匮乏的社会里，比如在二战时期，你得面对没有钢铁没有铝的情况。而当和平来了，所有的这些技术突然一下子都可以被民间市场所利用了。你们中的很多人可能听说过Charles和Ray Eames设计的土豆片椅子，它正是其中一个例子。玻璃纤维也突然就得到了民用。
en:It&#39;s quite beautiful because somehow, this is a gorgeous moment for design.Many years ago I heard a mathematician from Vienna, whose name was Marchetti,explain how the innovation in the military industry —therefore, secret innovation — and the innovation in thecivilian society are two sinusoids that are kind of opposed.And that makes sense.In moments of war there&#39;s great technological innovation,and in the world you have to do without —well, during the Second World War, you had to do without steel,you had to do without aluminum.And then as peace comes, all of these technologies get all of a suddenavailable for the civilian market.Many of you might know that the Potato Chip Chairby Charles and Ray Eames comes exactly from that kind of instance:fiberglass was available for civilian use all of a sudden.
时间：15:34
zh-cn:我想这是一个奇怪的时刻。正弦曲线的周期性发生了巨大的变化，就如同我们的生活节奏在过去的25年也有了巨变一样。因此我不再确信波长是多少。但这却真的是设计的一个非常重要的时刻。计算机技术不仅使得开放资源在设计界中成为可能，而且还有可持续性的理念。不仅仅是关于二氧化碳排放以及发展观点得出的可持续性，还有人类相互关系的可持续性。这已成为现在很多设计家工作的一部分。这也是为何设计家们越来越多地关注由设计带来的行为改变，而非物品本身。特别是优秀的设计家们，并不是说所有的设计家都是如此。
en:I think that this is a strange moment.The rhythm of the sinusoids has changed tremendously,just like the rhythm of our life in the past 25 years,so I&#39;m not sure anymore what the wavelength is.But it surely is a very important moment for design,because not only is the technology proceeding, not only is computingtechnology making open-source possible also in the world of design,but also the idea of sustainability —which is not only sustainability from the viewpoint of CO2 emissions and footprint,but also sustainability of human interrelationships —is very much part of the work of so many designers.And that&#39;s why designers, more and more, are working on behaviorsrather than on objects.Especially the good ones, not all of them.
时间：16:20
zh-cn:我想让你们看看，Mathieu Lehanneur的作品，非常奇特。他是另一位来自法国的年轻的设计家，他现在和制药公司合作，设计新的方法让病人们特别是小孩们能持续确定地吃药。
en:I wanted to show you, for instance, the work of Mathieu Lehanneur,which is quite fantastic.He&#39;s another young designer from France who&#39;s working —and at this point he&#39;s working, also, with pharmaceutical companies —on new ways to engage patients, especially children,in taking their medicines with constancy and with certainty.
时间：16:38
zh-cn:举例来说吧，这是一个装哮喘药的漂亮瓶子，当到你该吃药的时候，它就会自动地膨胀开来。这样孩子就会去打开药瓶。而另外这个药是可以让你在身上作画的。皮内的传输让你很快乐地参与到这种特别的传输过程中来。相似地，和Marti Guixe一样，有很多设计品试图让你参与其中，并且让所有的东西都从你嘴里进入。因此你可以通过口服尝到犯错的滋味。
en:For instance, this is a beautiful container for asthma medicinethat kind of inflates itself when it&#39;s time for you to take the medicine,so the child has to go — pffff! — to release and relieve the container itself.And this other medicine is something that you can draw on your skin,so intradermal delivery enables you to joyfully be involvedin this particular kind of delivery.Similarly, there&#39;s the work of people like Marti Guixe that tries to involveyou in a way that is really about making everything pass through your mouthso that you learn from your mistakes or from your taste, orally.
时间：17:18
zh-cn:我要做的下一个展示是关于设计和科学间的关系的，我已多次向你们提及这件事。我试图寻找的并非隐喻而是共识类的普遍性的：当前的共同问题，当务之急。而我认为这一点能使我们在设计的理念上走的更远。使得设计成为一种启迪，一种方向而不是一种关于形式的指示。
en:The next show that I&#39;m going to work on —and I&#39;ve been bugging a lot of you about this here —is about the relationship between design and science.I&#39;m trying to find not the metaphors, but, rather, the points in common —the common gripes, the common issues, the common preoccupations —and I think that it will enable us to go a little further in this idea of designas an instruction, as a direction rather than a prescription of form.
时间：17:45
zh-cn:同时我也希望你们都能对此做出响应。我已经向你们其中一些人发送了邮件。我们可以从不同的层面上去以形象化的方式展现二者的魅力。这需要从很小的工作做起，只有这样才能做出伟大和有意义的事情。谢谢
en:And I am hoping that many of you will respond to this.I&#39;ve sent an email already to quite a few of you.But design and science and the possibility of visualizing different scales,and therefore, really work at the scale of the very smallto make it very big and very meaningful.Thank you. (Applause)
