时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我涉及设计；我是建筑与设计的策展人。我在现代艺术博物馆工作，但重要的是 － 今天我们要谈的是真正的设计。真正好的设计师就像海棉。他们充满好奇心吸收各种他们遇到的信息，将它转换后让我们使用。因此，那给我机会，因为每个我策划的设计展都像看到不同的世界。那很棒，就像我每次都换了工作。
en:I dabble in design. I&#39;m a curator of architecture and design;I happen to be at the Museum of Modern Art.But what we&#39;re going to talk about todayis really design. Really good designers are like sponges:they really are curiousand absorb every kind of information that comes their way,and transform it so that it can be used by people like us.And so that gives me an opportunity,because every design show that I curatekind of looks at a different world. And it&#39;s great,because it seems like every time I change jobs.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:今天我要给你们预览我正在筹备的下个展览，叫做：「设计与弹性思维」。这次我要聚焦的世界是科学世界及技术世界。当涉及设计时，技术总是有关，而科学则稍少一些。但设计师总能善用伟大的变革，转换后让我们使用。这就是这项展览所追求的。
en:And what I&#39;m going to do today is I&#39;m going to give you a previewof the next exhibition that I&#39;m working on, which is called&quot;Design and the Elastic Mind.&quot;The world that I decided to focus on this particular timeis the world of science and the world of technology.Technology always comes into play when design is involved,but science does a little less.But designers are great at taking big revolutions that happenand transforming them so that we can use them.And this is what this exhibition looks at.
时间： 1:12
zh-cn:想想你今天的生活，每天走过许多不同的尺度，许多不同韵律及步调的改变。在不同时区工作，与差异很大的人交谈，多任务处理。我们都知道它，而且能自动处理。你们的思维有的是超级弹性有的则反应慢一点，其他人的则有点拉痕，但无论如何以此观点，你们是极独特的群众。其他人则不那么有弹性。我无法让在意大利的老爸上网。他不想在家中装高速网络。那是因为有一点害怕，有一点抗拒或阻碍的情形。因此，设计师为我们特有的不适应、我们的不自在而去设计，试着让我们生活得较容易。思维的弹性是我们真正需要的，我们真的需要，真的珍惜，并认真追求。这个展览是关于设计师的作品它让我们更有弹性，和追求弹性机会的设计师们。还有最后一点...不只是设计师，也有科学家。
en:If you think about your life today,you go every day through many different scales,many different changes of rhythm and pace.You work over different time zones, you talk to very different people,you multitask. We all know it, and we do it kind of automatically.Some of the minds in this audience are super elastic,others are a little slower,others have a few stretch marks, but nonethelessthis is a quite exceptional audience from that viewpoint.Other people are not as elastic.I can&#39;t get my father in Italy to work on the Internet.He doesn&#39;t want to put high-speed Internet at home.And that&#39;s because there&#39;s some little bit of fear,little bit of resistance or just clogged mechanisms.So designers work on this particular malaise that we have,these kinds of discomforts that we have,and try to make life easier for us.Elasticity of mind is something that we really need, you know,we really need, we really cherish and we really work on.And this exhibition is about the work of designersthat help us be more elastic,and also of designers that really work on this elasticityas an opportunity. And one last thing is thatit&#39;s not only designers, but it&#39;s also scientists.
时间： 2:23
zh-cn:在开始播放幻灯片、开始预览之前，我要指出科学家和设计的美丽细节。你可以说，科学和设计的关系已有好几世纪。你当然也可以谈李奥那多‧达芬奇，许多其他文艺复兴时期的男女，背后有个巨大的历史。但依据一位伟大科学史学者的说法，彼得‧卡里森 － 他在哈佛大学教书 －特别是纳米科技和量子物理学带给设计师的是一股新的兴趣，对设计的真正热情。
en:And before I launch into the display of some of the slidesand into the preview, I would like to point outthis beautiful detail about scientists and design.You can say that the relationship between science and designgoes back centuries. You can of course talk aboutLeonardo da Vinci and many other Renaissance men and women —and there&#39;s a gigantic history behind it.But according to a really great science historian you might know,Peter Galison — he teaches at Harvard —what nanotechnology in particular and quantum physicshave brought to designers is this renewed interest,this real passion for design.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:因此基本上，由下而上建造物品的想法，用原子一个个建，使他们成为修补匠。突然间科学家们都在找设计师，就如设计师们在找科学家一样。这是一个新的爱情故事，我们试图由现代艺术博物馆和亚当‧柏莱合作，他创办了 Seed 杂志 －现在是个多媒体公司，也许你知道它 －约一年前，我们创立让科学家和设计师每月一次的沙龙，极为美妙。济慈来了，约納坦 也来了，还有许多其他人。结果很棒，因为一开始是道歉连连，科学家告诉设计师：我不知道何谓风格，我真的不够优雅。而设计师则说：我不会做数学式子，我不懂你说的。而突然间他们真的开始说起彼此的语言，而现在我们已到了彼此合作的地步。
en:So basically, the idea of being able to build things bottom up,atom by atom, has made them all into tinkerers.And all of a sudden scientists are seeking designers,just like designers are seeking scientists.It&#39;s a brand-new love affair that we&#39;re trying to cultivateat MOMA. Together with Adam Bly, who is the founder of Seed magazine —that&#39;s now a multimedia company, you might know it —we founded about a year ago a monthly salonfor designers and scientists, and it&#39;s quite beautiful.And Keith has come, and also Jonathan has come and many others.And it was great, because at the beginning was this apology fest —you know, scientists would tell designers,you know, I don&#39;t know what style is, I&#39;m not really elegant.And designers would like, oh, I don&#39;t know how to do an equation,I don&#39;t understand what you&#39;re saying. And then all of a suddenthey really started talking each others&#39; language,and now we&#39;re already at the point that they collaborate.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:你知道保罗‧史坦哈特，来自纽约的物理学者，和 Aranda/Lasch 建筑师合作在伦敦的蛇本坦做装置设计。看着它的进展真是有趣。这个展览将要谈设计师与科学家的作品，展示他们如何为我们展现未来。现在我正要为你展示这个展览的不同部分，让你先睹为快，例如，纳米物理学与纳米科技，已真正开启了设计师的思维这个例子我将展示较多设计师的作品，因为真正受到刺激的就是他们。展览中的许多物品只是概念，不是已经存在的物品。但你看到的是洛杉矶加州大学科学家的作品。这种字母汤是标示蛋白质的新方法，不但用颜色，也用字母。他们制作它，可用纳米尺度
en:Paul Steinhardt, a physicist from New York,and Aranda/Lasch, architects, collaborated in an installationin London at the Serpentine.And it&#39;s really interesting to see how this happens.The exhibition will talk about the workof both designers and scientists,and show how they&#39;re presenting the possibilities of the future to us.I&#39;m showing to youdifferent sections of the show right now,just to give you a taste of it.Nanophysics and nanotechnology, for instance,have really opened the designer&#39;s mind.In this case I&#39;m showing more the designers&#39; work,because they&#39;re the ones that have really been stimulated.A lot of the objects in the show are concepts,not objects that exist already. But what you&#39;re looking at hereis the work of some scientists from UCLA.This kind of alphabet soup is a new way to mark proteins —not only by color but literally by alphabet letters.So they construct it, and they can construct all kinds of forms
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:做成各种形态。而这个作品来自伦敦的皇家艺术学院的设计系学生和指导老师东尼‧杜恩，以及一些英国科学家做的 －探讨纳米科技用在未来设计的可能性。身体的新感应单元。让指甲长毛，因此可以抓取他人身上的分子。他们似乎执意要找出更多关于理想伴侣的事。因此他们强化每件事 － 触觉、嗅觉，任何能做的事，以找到完美的伴侣。
en:at the nanoscale. This is the work of design studentsfrom the Royal College of Arts in Londonthat have been working together with their tutor, Tony Dunne,and with a bunch of scientists around Great Britainon the possibilities of nanotechnology for design in the future.New sensing elements on the body —you can grow hairs on your nails,and therefore grab some of the particles from another person.They seem very, very obsessedwith finding out more about the ideal mate.So they&#39;re working on enhancing everything: touch, smell —everything they can, in order to find the perfect mate.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:很有趣。而这是一位字体设计师来自以色列，他设计了 － 所谓的｢精虫体｣他想 － 当然只是个概念 －把字体注入精虫、注入精子 －英文该怎么念 － spermatazoi，使它们变成 － 几乎每次射精都会唱一首歌或吟一首诗。(笑声)我认为，设计师真是神奇，
en:Very interesting. This is a typeface designerfrom Israel who has designed — he calls them &quot;typosperma.&quot;He&#39;s thinking — of course it&#39;s all a concept —of injecting typefaces into spermatozoa,I don&#39;t know how to say it in English — spermatazoi —in order to make them become — to almost have a songor a whole poem written with every ejaculation. (Laughter)I tell you, designers are quite fantastic, you know.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:接着，肌肉组织设计。这例子也是科学家和设计师的结合。这也是出自皇家艺术学院的同一个实验室。就这方面，皇家艺术学院真是个奇妙的学校。有一年的作业是用培养皿种肉。你知道，已经可以用培养皿种肉。澳洲有人种它 － 一家研究公司叫做 SymbioticA，但问题是种出来的很难看。因此，给学生的作业是：未来的牛排该长得怎样？如果你不必杀牛，则它可以是任何形状，它该长得怎样？这名学生叫詹姆斯‧金恩到漂亮的英国乡下四处去，挑了他看到的最美、最美的牛，然后将它放在磁共振成像机上。取最佳部位的扫描影像用来做肉。当然，这是由日本树脂食品模型师做的，而未来可以做得更好。而那再现了他能找到的最美的牛的最佳磁共振影像。
en:So, tissue design.In this case too, you have a mixture of scientists and designers.This here is part of the same lab at the Royal College of Arts.The RCA is really quite an amazing school from that viewpoint.One of the assignments for a year was to work with in-vitro meat.You know that already you can grow meat in vitro.In Australia they did it — this research company, called SymbioticA.But the problem is that it&#39;s a really ugly patty.And so, the assignment to the students was,how should the steak of tomorrow be?When you don&#39;t have to kill cows and it can have any shape,what should it be like?So this particular student, James King,went around the beautiful English countryside,picked the best, best cow that he could see,and then put her in the MRI machine.Then, he took the scans of the best organs and made the meat —of course, this is done with a Japanese resins food maker,but you know, in the future it could be made better —which reproduces the best MRI scan of the best cow he could find.
时间： 6:51
zh-cn:而这个单元则较为俗气一点。你已经知道可以做到的是增长骨头组织来做一枚婚戒来自你心爱的人的骨头组织。这是真人骨组织做成的。
en:Instead, this element here is much more banal.Something that you know can be done alreadyis to grow bone tissue, so that you can make a wedding ringout of the bone tissue of your loved one — literally.So, this is indeed made of human bone tissue.
时间： 7:07
zh-cn:这家 SymbioticA 公司，他们正在做，他们是第一家做培养皿肉。现在他们也做培养皿外套，一种皮外套，是袖珍型的，却是真的外套。形状也像。因此，我们将没有任何借口在未来还穿真皮的。
en:This is SymbioticA, and they&#39;ve been working —they were the first ones to do this in-vitro meat —and now they&#39;ve also done an in-vitro coat, a leather coat.It&#39;s miniscule, but it&#39;s a real coat. It&#39;s shaped like one.So, we&#39;ll be able to really not have any excuseto be wearing everything leather in the future.
时间： 7:25
zh-cn:这展览的一个最重要主题就是就如我们今日的生活一般，我们可以有许多不同观点看它，不同的层次看它。其中一个最有趣最重要的概念就是尺度的观念。我们很常改变尺度，我们改变显示器的分辨率，但我们不 －并不以为意，我们习以为常。因此，甚至在展览里，从纳米科技及纳米尺度的概念到处理极大量的数据；去映射及标示宇宙及世界。这个特例中，将有一个部分是信息设计。这里可看到本‧富莱的作品。这是人类对猩猩。少数几个染色体区分我们和猩猩。这是他为 Seed 杂志做的漂亮视觉图。这是可视化的吃豆人游戏全套程序代码包含所有的 go-to、go-back-to，都变成漂亮的舞谱。
en:One of the most important topics of the show — you know,as anything in our life today,we can look at it from many, many different viewpoints,and at different levels.One of the most interesting and most important conceptsis the idea of scale. We change scale very often:we change resolution of screens, andwe&#39;re not really fazed by it, we do it very comfortably.So you go, even in the exhibition,from the idea of nanotechnology and the nanoscaleto the manipulation of really great amounts of data —the mapping and tagging of the universe and of the world.In this particular case a section will be devotedto information design.You see here the work of Ben Fry. This is &quot;Human vs. Chimps&quot; —the few chromosomes that distinguish us from chimps.It was a beautiful visualization that he did for Seed magazine.And here&#39;s the whole code of Pac-Man, visualizedwith all the go-to, go-back-to,also made into a beautiful choreography.
时间： 8:18
zh-cn:也有科学家的图：这张漂亮的蛋白质同源分度图。科学家已注意到美学。我们今天早上和济慈‧施乐伯讨论事实上许多科学家在发表时倾向不用漂亮的东西，怕被认为虚有漂亮的外表。因此挑选最糟糕的背景去做各种幻灯片发表，最差的字体。直到最近设计师和科学家的结合，才产生了第一次的－我们所谓的 － 「漂亮的」科学发表。当代设计的另一面向我认为让人心智大开、充满期许、也会成为未来的设计，就是集体设计的概念。你知道，整个 XO 手提电脑，即：学童都有计算机，就是基于合作、结合、及网络的概念。因此，越多越愉快。计算机越多，信号越强，儿童们使用接口，全部基于一起做事，分工做事。因此，合作设计的概念是未来会更盛行的事，这也被选为一个例子。
en:And then also graphs by scientists,this beautiful diagraph of protein homology.Scientists are starting to also consider aesthetics.We were discussing with Keith Shrubb* this morningthe fact that many scientiststend not to use anything beautiful in their presentations,otherwise they&#39;re afraid of being considered dumb blondes.So they pick the worst backgroundfrom any kind of PowerPoint presentation, the worst typeface.It&#39;s only recently that this kind of marriagebetween design and science is producing some of the first &quot;pretty&quot; —if we can say so — scientific presentations.Another aspect of contemporary designthat I think is mind-opening, promisingand will really be the future of design,is the idea of collective design.You know, the whole XO laptop, from One Laptop per Child,is based on the idea of collaboration and mash and networking.So, the more the merrier.The more computers, the stronger the signal,and children work on the interface so that it&#39;s all basedon doing things together, tasks together.So the idea of collective designis something that will become even bigger in the future,and this is chosen as an example.
时间： 9:28
zh-cn:关于合作设计的概念和个人与集体活动之间的新平衡就是｢存在最大化｣的概念。这个词是几年前由我创用的那时我想我们都挤在一起，而同时那些小小的物品，如随身听和 iPod，却又能为我们创造了空间范围，让我们拥有无形的空间，那比我们物理空间大很多。你可以在地鉄却完全孤立独享你自己的 iPod 空间。
en:Related to the idea of collective design and to the new balancebetween the individual and the collectiveness, collectivityis the idea of existence maximum.That&#39;s a term that I coined a few years agowhile I was thinking of how pressed we are together,and at the same time how these small objects,like the Walkman first and then the iPod,create bubbles of space around us that enable usto have a metaphysical spacethat is much bigger than our physical space.You can be in the subway and you can be completely isolatedand have your own room in your iPod.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:这是几个设计师的作品以各种技法，它真正强化了孤独及扩张的概念。这是个水疗电话。概念是现在很难随处有私人谈话了 －你去水疗、去按摩、去做脸、去推拿，水池多么漂亮，温度恰到好处，让你在这个｢孤立泡｣中讲电话和任何你想好好长谈的人聊聊。而这是相同的事：社会远距在场。军中已多少用到它，但它的想法是让你的感官在身体不在场时能感觉得到。这叫做盲目约会。如果你太害羞不敢去约会，你就带着花离远一点别人会替你扮演约会。
en:And this is the work of several designersthat really enhance the idea of solitude and expansionby means of various techniques.This is a spa telephone. The idea is that it&#39;s become so difficultto have a private conversation anywherethat you go to the spa, you have a massage, you have a facial,maybe a rub, and then you have this beautiful poolwith this perfect temperature, and you can havethis isolation tank phone conversationwith whomever you&#39;ve been wanting to talk with for a long time.And same thing here, Social Tele-presence.It&#39;s actually already used by the military a little bit,but it&#39;s the idea of being able to be somewhere elsewith your senses while you&#39;re removed from it physically.And this is called Blind Date. It&#39;s a [unclear],so if you&#39;re too shy to be really at the date,you can stay at a distance with your flowersand somebody else reenacts the date for you.
时间：10:50
zh-cn:快速制造是另一个重要领域让技术与设计，我认为...一起来改变世界。以前你听过很多次了快速制造是用计算机档案直接由计算机送到制造设备上。它曾叫做快速原型、快速模型法。它开始于 &#39;80 年代，开始时是用机器雕刻泡棉块这种模型很脆弱，很难有实际用途。渐渐地，材料变好了 － 用较好的树脂。技巧也变好了 － 不只是雕刻也用立体印制及激光，固化各种树脂，不论是粉末或液状。而桶子也变大了，直到现在我们能有实际的椅子由快速制造做成。如今做一张椅子要七天，但你知道吗？有一天将只需七小时。梦想将是：你将能在家里订制你的椅子。公司和设计师将设计本体或周边并兼顾坚实性、及品牌和设计识别。然后你将送它到街角的 Kinko 商店
en:Rapid manufacturing is another big areain which technology and design are, I think,bound to change the world. You&#39;ve heard about it before many times.Rapid manufacturing is a computer filesent directly from the computer to the manufacturing machine.It used to be called rapid prototyping, rapid modeling.It started out in the &#39;80s, but at the beginningit was machines carving out of a foam blocka model that was very, very fragile,and could not have any real use.Slowly but surely, the materials became better — better resins.Techniques became better — not only carvingbut also stereolithography and laser — solidifying all kinds of resins,whether in powder or in liquid form. And the vats became bigger,to the point that now we can have actual chairsmade by rapid manufacturing.It takes seven days today to manufacture a chair,but you know what? One day it will take seven hours.And then the dream is that you&#39;ll be able to, from home,customize your chair. You know, companies and designerswill be designing the matrix or the marginsthat respect both solidity and brand, and design identity.And then you can send it to the Kinko&#39;s store at the corner
时间：12:03
zh-cn:去拿取你的椅子。这个意涵很大，不只关于最终购买者的参与设计过程，也不必追踪、不必仓储、不浪费材料。因此，我能想象许多设计制造公司将要重新改造它的商业计划。并投资到 Kinko 商店。那真是一个大变化。接着我秀一张 WIRED 杂志的照片，这是我很喜欢的｢未来用品｣部分，看到你可以有自己的桌上型立体印制机印制自己的篮球。这里只是举例，已经有真的立体印纺机，那是很有趣的。这是一个很细腻的东西 － 叫做慢速原型法。有个设计师放一万只蜜蜂做了这个蜂巢花瓶。它们依预给的形状建巢。
en:and go get your chair. Now, the implications of this are enormous,not only regarding the participation of the final buyerin the design process, but also no tracking,no warehousing, no wasted materials.Also, I can imagine many design manufacturerswill have to retool their own business plansand maybe invest in this Kinko&#39;s store. But it really is a big change.And here I&#39;m showing a picture that was in Wired Magazine —you know, the Artifacts of the Future section that I love so much —that shows you can have your desktop 3D printerand print your own basketball.But here instead are examples, you can already 3D-print textiles,which is very interesting.This is just a really nice touch — it&#39;s called slow prototyping.It&#39;s a designer that put 10,000 bees at work and they built this vase.They had a particular shape that they had to stay in.
时间：12:51
zh-cn:映射与标示。计算机的能力越来越大，真的很大，而我们的心智能力并没变大，我们发现我们必须标示做过的事以便能跟踪走过的路。再一次，这种经验的共享再一次，这种经验的共享今日看来极为重要。因此，各种映射与标示方法也是当今许多设计师的工作。感觉。设计师与科学家都试图扩大我们的感觉能力以求达成更多。某方面则是动物的感觉。
en:Mapping and tagging.As the capacity of computers becomes really, really big,and the capacity of our mind not that much bigger,we find that we need to tag as much as we can what we doin order to then retrace our path.Also, we do it in order to share with other people.Again, this communal sense of experiencethat seems to be so important today.So, various ways to map and tagare also the work of many designers nowadays.Also, the senses — designers and scientists all work on trying to expandour senses capabilities so that we can achieve more.And also animal senses in a way.
时间：13:31
zh-cn:这项特别的物品许多人都很喜欢实际上是基于一种科学实验 －事实上蜂有很强的嗅觉，因此 － 就像狗可以嗅出某种皮肤癌 －蜂也能训练以巴甫洛夫反射来侦测一种癌症，以及验孕。同样这个皇家艺术学院学生设计了这个漂亮的吹玻璃让蜂由一个隔间飞到另一隔间一旦它们侦测到特殊的气味那意味着，本例是验孕。另一种形状则可以验癌。
en:This particular object that many people love so muchis actually based on kind of a scientific experiment —the fact that bees have a very strong olfactory sense,and so — much like dogs that can smell certain kinds of skin cancer —bees can be trained by Pavlovian reflexto detect one type of cancer, and also pregnancy.And so this student at the RCAdesigned this beautiful blown-glass objectwhere the bees move from one chamber to the otherif they detect that particular smellthat signifies, in this case, pregnancy.Another shape is made for cancer.
时间：14:06
zh-cn:｢设计为辩论｣是很有趣的新尝试是设计师为自己而创设的有些设计师并不设计物品、产品，不做供实用的东西，而是设计基于物品的剧情。剧情也很有用的。可以帮助公司或其他设计师更好地思考未来。通常它们伴随影片来呈现。这个很美。是杜恩与拉比的｢所有机器人｣。那些是一系列要人照顾的机器人。我们都认为机器人将会照顾我们，反之，他们设计了这些很黏人的机器人。有一个你要抱在手臂，亲眼看着它要约五分钟它才会做动作。另一个在你进入房间时会非常、非常紧张，开始发抖，因此你要安抚它。这样让我们进一步去想机器人对我们的意义。诺安‧拓南的｢寂人配件｣概念是当你失去心爱的人或经历痛苦的分手，你最怀念的是那些琐事你和那人一起时的那些讨厌的事。因此他设计了这系列的附件。像这个夜里会把你的被单抽走。而这个的呼吸会吹在你的脖子上。还有另一个会丢盘子、甩破它。整个想法就是生活中我们怀念的事。
en:Design for Debate is a very interesting new endeavorthat designers have really shaped for themselves.Some designers don&#39;t design objects, products,things that we&#39;re going to actually use,but rather, they design scenarios that are object-based.They&#39;re still very useful.They help companies and other designers think better about the future.And usually they are accompanied by videos.This is quite beautiful. It&#39;s Dunne and Raby, &quot;All the Robots.&quot;Those are a series of robots that are meant to be taken care of.We always think that robots will take care of us,and instead they designed these robots that are very, very needy.You need to take one in your arms and look at it in the eyesfor about five minutes before it does something.Another one gets really, really nervous if you get in to the room,and starts shaking, so you have to calm it down.So it&#39;s really a way to make us think moreabout what robots mean to us.Noam Toran and &quot;Accessories for Lonely Men&quot;:the idea is that when you lose your loved oneor you go through a bad breakup,what you miss the most are those annoying thingsthat you used to hate when you were with the other person.So he designed all these series of accessories.This one is something that takes away the sheets from you at night.Then there&#39;s another one that breathes on your neck.There&#39;s another one that throws plates and breaks them.So it&#39;s just this idea of what we really miss in life.
时间：15:26
zh-cn:另外，爱利奧‧喀卡瓦尔，他采用这想法用玩偶解释白血病。他正在做一个解释异体移植的玩偶，及将蜘蛛基因置入山羊，几年前的。他为这个展览做一整系列的玩偶为儿童解释今天婴儿是怎么来的。因为已不是妈、爸，花和蜂然后婴儿就来了。不，可以是两个妈，三个爸，在培养皿里 － 就是这个概念今天婴儿是如何产生的，已经改变了。因此，这是他正在做的一系列玩偶。
en:Elio Caccavale: he took the ideaof those dolls that explain leukemia.He&#39;s working on dolls that explain xenotransplantation,and also the spider gene into the goat, from a few years ago.He&#39;s working for the exhibition on a whole series of dollsthat explain to children where babies come from today.Because it&#39;s not anymore Mom, Dad, the flowers and the bees,and then there&#39;s the baby. No, it can be two moms, three dads,in-vitro — there&#39;s the whole ideaof how babies can be made today that has changed.So it&#39;s a series of dolls that he&#39;s working on right now.
时间：16:04
zh-cn:一件最美的事设计师并不真的制作生命，即使他们采用了科技。最近许多设计师在做的是死亡及哀悼的想法，运用新科技我们能为它做什么。或者，以新科技我们会有什么做法。那三件物品上都有硬盘有蓝芽连结。但它们事实上是非常、非常漂亮的雕塑品包含了某个过世者的整个桌面及计算机记忆。因此，不是只有一些照片，你将能把物品摆在计算机旁因而突然间，你知道的，葛尔楚的一生和她的所有档案及她的连络簿都活了过来。
en:One of the most beautiful thingsis that designers really work on life,even though they take technology into account.And many designers have been working recentlyon the idea of death and mourning,and what we can do about it today with new technologies.Or how we should behave about it with new technologies.These three objects over there are hard driveswith a Bluetooth connection. But they&#39;re in realityvery, very beautiful sculpted artifactsthat contain the whole desktop and computer memoryof somebody who passed away.So instead of having only the pictures,you will be able to put this object next to the computerand all of a sudden have, you know,Gertrude&#39;s whole life and all of her filesand her address book come alive.
时间：16:46
zh-cn:这个更好。它是奧格‧雷宙的｢来世｣。主要构想是有些人不信有来世。因此提供他们一些有形事物，显示死后的事，他们取用死者的胃液把它浓缩后，放在电池里而真的能点亮手电筒。也可以用在 － 例如，情趣玩具、等等。令人惊讶的，这些事都令人会心一笑，甚至大笑，有时让人哭。但我希望这个特别的展览可以描绘出设计将走的新图像，这个图像总是，但愿是，早几年说出世界要往哪里去。谢谢大家。
en:And this is even better. This is Auger-Loizeau, &quot;AfterLife.&quot;It&#39;s the idea that some people don&#39;t believe in an afterlife.So to give them something tangible that shows thatthere is something after death, they take the gastric juicesof people who passed away and concentrate them,and put them into a battery that can actually be usedto power flashlights. They also go — you know, sex toys, whatever.It&#39;s quite amazing how these things can make you smile,can make you laugh, can make you cry sometimes.But I&#39;m hoping that this particular exhibitionwill be able to trace a new portrait of where design is going —which is always, hopefully, a portrait a few years in advanceof where the world is going.Thank you very much.
