时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们生活在一个无国界的世界吗？在您回答这个问题前，请看一下这张地图。当代政治地图显示世界上现有超过200个国家。这或许是多个世纪以来国家数目最多的时期。或许很多人会表示反对。那么这可能是一张更能说服你的地图。你可以把它称作TED之图。在TED之图上，没有任何国界，只存在相互连接的区域和毫不相连的区域。大部分在座的或许都生活在荧幕中图示的40个点中的某个点上，这些只是许多个点中的一部分，而却代表了世界经济的90%。
en:Do we live in a borderless world?Before you answer that, have a look at this map.Contemporary political map showsthat we have over 200 countries in the world today.That&#39;s probably more than at any time in centuries.Now, many of you will object.For you this would be a more appropriate map.You could call it TEDistan.In TEDistan, there are no borders,just connected spaces and unconnected spaces.Most of you probably reside in one of the 40 dotson this screen, of the many morethat represent 90 percent of the world economy.
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:而我们要知道， 世界人口中的90%永远都不会离开自己的出生地。对他们来说，民族、国家、分界线和国界仍然关系重大，甚至是至关重要。而在TED，我们试图解开科学中和宇宙中一些伟大的谜团。而在这里我们有一个根本问题有待解决：我们基本的政治地理学。我们在地球上是如何分布的？
en:But let&#39;s talk about the 90 percent of the world populationthat will never leave the place in which they were born.For them, nations, countries, boundaries, borders still matter a great deal,and often violently.Now here at TED, we&#39;re solving some of the greatriddles of science and mysteries of the universe.Well here is a fundamental problem we have not solved:our basic political geography.How do we distribute ourselves around the world?
时间： 1:13
zh-cn:这个问题很重要，因为边界冲突让世界上如此之多的军工联合体的存在合理化。边界冲突能让我们期盼的许多进展偏离轨道。因此，我认为我们需要更加深刻的思考，人口、财富、权力、宗教、文化、科技是如何相互作用，从而改变世界地图的面貌的。我们也可以试着预测这些改变，将他们导引至一个更加具有建设性的方向。
en:Now this is important, because border conflictsjustify so much of the world&#39;s military-industrial complex.Border conflicts can derailso much of the progress that we hope to achieve here.So I think we need a deeper understandingof how people, money, power,religion, culture, technologyinteract to change the map of the world.And we can try to anticipate those changes,and shape them in a more constructive direction.
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:我们来看一下一些过去的和现在的地图，还有一些你们从未见过的地图，来初步感受一下世界的走向。我们首先来看一下1945年的地图。1945年的时候，世界上正好有100个国家。二次世界大战后，欧洲元气大伤，但是仍然占有大量的海外殖民地：法属西非、英属东非和南亚，等等。接着40年代末期，50年代、60年代、70年代和80年代，脱离殖民运动开始风气云涌。诞生了50多个新的国家。你可以看到非洲被打碎了。印度、巴基斯坦、孟加拉、东南亚国家建立了起来。之后冷战结束。冷战结束和苏联的解体。我们又见证了东欧一些新的国家的成立，前南斯拉夫共和国和巴尔干半岛诸国，以及中亚的一些斯坦国。
en:So we&#39;re going to look at some maps of the past,the present and some maps you haven&#39;t seenin order to get a sense of where things are going.Let&#39;s start with the world of 1945.1945 there were just 100 countries in the world.After World War II, Europe was devastated,but still held large overseas colonies:French West Africa, British East Africa, South Asia, and so forth.Then over the late &#39;40s,&#39;50s, &#39;60s, &#39;70s and &#39;80s,waves of decolonization took place.Over 50 new countries were born.You can see that Africa has been fragmented.India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, South East Asian nations created.Then came the end of the Cold War.The end of the Cold War and the disintegration of the Soviet Union.You had the creation of new states in Eastern Europe,the former Yugoslav republics and the Balkans,and the &#39;stans of central Asia.
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:今天世界上有200多个国家。整个地球都被自治区、独立国家/洲等所覆盖。这是不是说一些人的得必然是另外一些人的失呢？让我们将焦点对准世界上最具战略意义的地区，欧亚大陆东部。从地图上可以看到，俄罗斯仍然是世界上最大的国家。大家也知道，中国是人口最多的国家。这两个国家中间有一条漫长的陆地疆界。
en:Today we have 200 countries in the world.The entire planet is coveredby sovereign, independent nation-states.Does that mean that someone&#39;s gain has to be someone else&#39;s loss?Let&#39;s zoom in on one of the most strategic areas of the world,Eastern Eurasia.As you can see on this map,Russia is still the largest country in the world.And as you know, China is the most populous.And they share a lengthy land border.
时间： 2:57
zh-cn:而大家从这张地图上看不见的是俄罗斯1.5亿人口中的大部分都集中在西部靠近欧洲的省份和地区。仅有3000万人口居住在东部地区。事实上，世界银行预测俄罗斯的人口正在减少逐渐减少至1.2亿。
en:What you don&#39;t see on this mapis that most of Russia&#39;s 150 million peopleare concentrated in its western provincesand areas that are close to Europe.And only 30 million people are in its eastern areas.In fact, the World Bank predictsthat Russia&#39;s population is decliningtowards about 120 million people
时间： 3:17
zh-cn:此外还有一件事大家也无法从地图上得知。斯大林、克鲁晓夫和其他苏联的领导人曾经强迫俄罗斯人移居远东地区的古拉格、劳动集中营、核试验基地，等等。但随着油价的上升，俄罗斯政府投资建设了基础设施以联结东部和西部。但是很难再像以前那样强蛮地影响俄罗斯的人口分布了。因为东部地区的那些居民一直都不愿意呆在那里，他们登上火车和汽车返回了西部地区。结果呢，现在的俄罗斯远东地区，虽然面积是印度的两倍，却只剩下了600万人口。
en:And there is another thing that you don&#39;t see on this map.Stalin, Khrushchev and other Soviet leadersforced Russians out to the far eastto be in gulags, labor camps,nuclear cities, whatever the case was.But as oil prices rose,Russian governments have invested in infrastructureto unite the country, east and west.But nothing has more perversely impactedRussia&#39;s demographic distribution,because the people in the east, who never wanted to be there anyway,have gotten on those trains and roadsand gone back to the west.As a result, in the Russian far east today,which is twice the size of India,you have exactly six million Russians.
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:那么让我们来了解一下这个地区现在正在发生什么。我们先看一下蒙古国，也有人称呼它为矿之国。为什么这么称呼它呢？因为在矿之国，中国公司开采和拥有那里的大部分矿藏 — 铜矿、锌矿、金矿 —他们将这些资源用卡车运回中国大陆的南部和东部。中国并没有在征服蒙古。而是在购买蒙古。过去殖民地是征服得来的，而今天国家是购买得到的。
en:So let&#39;s get a sense of what is happening in this part of the world.We can start with Mongolia, or as some call it, Mine-golia.Why do they call it that?Because in Mine-golia, Chinese firms operateand own most of the mines — copper, zinc, gold —and they truck the resources south and east into mainland China.China isn&#39;t conquering Mongolia.It&#39;s buying it.Colonies were once conquered. Today countries are bought.
时间： 4:21
zh-cn:同样的法则也适用于西伯利亚。许多人可能都会认为西伯利亚是个寒冷、荒芜和不适合居住的地方。但事实上，随着全球暖化和温度上升，忽然之间，那里出现了大片的麦田农业贸易和谷物。那么这些农产品是给谁消费的呢？就在漠河的另外一边，就是中国的黑龙江等省那里居住着超过1亿的人口。这比整个俄罗斯的人口都要多。
en:So let&#39;s apply this principle to Siberia.Siberia most of you probably think ofas a cold, desolate, unlivable place.But in fact, with global warming and rising temperatures,all of a sudden you have vast wheat fieldsand agribusiness, and grain being produced in Siberia.But who is it going to feed?Well, just on the other side of the Amo River,in the Heilongjiang and Harbin provinces of China,you have over 100 million people.That&#39;s larger than the entire population of Russia.
时间： 4:52
zh-cn:每年，至少在过去10多年里都是如此，都有60万人口用他们的脚投票，穿越边界，移民北方，居住在这些荒凉的地带。他们建立起了他们自己的百货市场和医疗诊所。他们还接手了伐木业，将木材往东运回中国。和在蒙古发生的一样，中国并不是在征服俄罗斯。只是在租赁而已。这就是我所称的中国式全球化。
en:Every single year, for at least a decade or more,[60,000] of them have been voting with their feet,crossing, moving north and inhabiting this desolate terrain.They set up their own bazaars and medical clinics.They&#39;ve taken over the timber industryand been shipping the lumber east, back into China.Again, like Mongolia,China isn&#39;t conquering Russia. It&#39;s just leasing it.That&#39;s what I call globalization Chinese style.
时间： 5:20
zh-cn:也许这就是这个区域的地图在10至20年后的样子。但有意思的是，这张地图已经700岁了。这正是中国元代的地图，由忽必烈汗统治的朝代，成吉思汗的孙子。历史并不一定会重复，但却会重演。
en:Now maybe this is what the map of the regionmight look like in 10 to 20 years.But hold on. This map is 700 years old.This is the map of the Yuan Dynasty,led by Kublai Khan, the grandson of Genghis Khan.So history doesn&#39;t necessarily repeat itself,but it does rhyme.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:这只是让大家稍微了解了一下这个地区正在发生什么。同样，中国式的全球化。因为全球化为我们带来了多种多样的可能性来变革我们思考政治地理的方式。因此，事实上在东亚的历史中，人们并没有太过关注国家和疆界。而更在意帝权和统治，通常是中国人和日本人。
en:This is just to give you a taste of what&#39;s happening in this part of the world.Again, globalization Chinese style.Because globalization opens up all kinds of ways for us toundermine and change the way we think about political geography.So, the history of East Asia in fact,people don&#39;t think about nations and borders.They think more in terms of empires and hierarchies,usually Chinese or Japanese.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:现在又轮到中国了。让我们看一下中国是如何再次建立起它在远东地区的统治地位的。它首先从全球性的区域中心开始。记得刚刚那张夜间地图中的40多个亮点吗？这些亮点标示出了全球经济的聚集区。当今东亚地区拥有全世界最多的经济聚集区比世界上任何其他地区都多。东京、首尔、北京、上海、香港、新加坡和悉尼。这些区域是全球资金的过滤网和漏斗。每年有数以兆计的资金流入这个区域。其中很多都投向了中国。
en:Well it&#39;s China&#39;s turn again.So let&#39;s look at how China is re-establishingthat hierarchy in the far East.It starts with the global hubs.Remember the 40 dots on the nighttime mapthat show the hubs of the global economy?East Asia today has more of those global hubsthan any other region in the world.Tokyo, Seoul, Beijing, Shanghai,Hong Kong, Singapore and Sidney.These are the filters and funnels of global capital.Trillions of dollars a year are being brought into the region,so much of it being invested into China.
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:还有贸易。这些指向线和箭头代表中国与区域内各国的贸易关系史无前例地紧密。尤其是它对日本、韩国和澳大利亚的贸易，这些国家都是美国的密切盟友。例如澳大利亚，非常依赖向中国出口铁矿石和天然气。而在与贫穷国家交易时，中国降低关税因而老挝和柬埔寨可以以更便宜的价格销售他们的商品随之也对向中国的出口产生依赖。
en:Then there is trade.These vectors and arrows represent ever strongertrade relationships that China haswith every country in the region.Specifically, it targets Japanand Korea and Australia,countries that are strong allies of the United States.Australia, for example, is heavily dependenton exporting iron ore and natural gas to China.For poorer countries, China reduces tariffsso that Laos and Cambodia can sell their goods more cheaplyand become dependent on exporting to China as well.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:许多人都在新闻中看到大家都很期待中国引领复苏，经济复苏，不仅仅是对亚洲，而可能是对全世界。亚洲自由贸易区，几乎已经是自由贸易区了，正逐步显现。贸易额超过了跨太平洋的贸易额。因此中国正成为该地区经济的靠山。
en:And now many of you have been reading in the newshow people are looking to Chinato lead the rebound, the economic rebound, not just in Asia, but potentially for the world.The Asian free trade zone, almost free trade zone, that&#39;s emergingnow has a greater trade volume than trade across the Pacific.So China is becoming the anchor of the economy in the region.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:这一策略的另外一个支柱是外交。中国与该地区内的许多国家都签署了军事协议。它已成为一些国际关系组织的中心例如东亚共同体。有些组织甚至将美国排除在外。这些国家间达成了一个互不干涉条约，因而如果中国与美国之间发生冲突，大部分国家都会宣誓中立，包括韩国和澳大利亚等美国盟友。
en:Another pillar of this strategy is diplomacy.China has signed military agreements with many countries in the region.It has become the hub of diplomatic institutionssuch as the East Asian Community.Some of these organizations don&#39;t even havethe United States as a member.There is a treaty of nonaggression between countries,such that if there were a conflict between China and the United States,most countries vow to just sit it out,including American allies like Korea and Australia.
时间： 7:50
zh-cn:该策略的另外一个支柱，例如针对俄罗斯，是人口。中国向外输出商人、保姆、学生、和老师，在整个区域内教授中文，彼此通婚，以及在各个经济体中占据史无前例的主导性地位。已经可以看到中国人在马来西亚、泰国和印尼等国家中成为了当地经济不容忽视的关键因素和推动力。中国人的自豪感在这个区域也再次复苏。例如新加坡，曾经一度禁止利用中文教学。而现在却大力提倡。
en:Another pillar of the strategy,like Russia, is demographic.China exports business people, nannies, students,teachers to teach Chinese around the region,to intermarry and to occupy ever greatercommanding heights of the economies.Already ethnic Chinese peoplein Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesiaare the real key factors and driversin the economies there.Chinese pride is resurgent in the regionas a result.Singapore, for example, used to ban Chinese language education.Now it encourages it.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:让我们综合来看，大家会得出什么结论？如果你还记得二战前日本曾有一个梦想建立日本大东亚共荣圈。而今一个我们可以称之为大中国共荣圈的形态正逐步显现。因此不管地图上的分界线是如何区隔出国家和划出疆界的，在远东地区正在呈现的国家文化，却是在一个流动的帝国区域里互通的。这些都是在不发一颗子弹的情况下发生的。
en:If you add it all up what do you get?Well, if you remember before World War II,Japan had a visionfor a greater Japanese co-prosperity sphere.What&#39;s emerging today is what you might calla greater Chinese co-prosperity sphere.So no matter what the lines on the map tell youin terms of nations and borders,what you really have emerging in the far eastare national cultures,but in a much more fluid, imperial zone.All of this is happening without firing a shot.
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:而在中东地区却大相径庭，这里的国家仍然对欧洲殖民者留下的疆界感到非常不满。那么我们怎样能够换一种方式来看待这个区域的疆界问题呢？我们应该关注地图上的哪些线呢？我要向大家展示的是一个我称之为渐进式国家建立的概念。
en:That&#39;s most certainly not the case in the Middle Eastwhere countries are still very uncomfortablein the borders left behind by European colonialists.So what can we do to think about borders differently in this part of the world?What lines on the map should we focus on?What I want to present to you is what I callstate building, day by day.
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:让我们从伊拉克谈起。美国入侵伊拉克6年后，地图上的这个国家仍然是比现实中的完整很多。石油原本是将伊拉克各派势力团结在一起的因素。而现在石油却是导致国家分裂的根源。原因是库尔德人。库尔德人3000年来一直进行着追求独立的斗争。现在是他们可以最终获取独立的机会。这些是输油管道，源头从库尔德开始，这是一个石油资源富饶的地区。
en:Let&#39;s start with Iraq.Six years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq,the country still exists more on a map than it does in reality.Oil used to be one of the forces holding Iraq together;now it is the most significant cause of the country&#39;s disintegration.The reason is Kurdistan.The Kurds for 3,000 yearshave been waging a struggle for independence,and now is their chance to finally have it.These are pipeline routes, which emerge from Kurdistan,which is an oil-rich region.
时间： 9:39
zh-cn:今天，如果你去库尔德，你会看到库尔德“自由斗士”正对伊拉克逊尼派军队进行自卫攻击。他们所要守护的是什么呢？仅仅是地图上的一条疆界吗?当然不是。是输油管道。如果库尔德人掌控了他们的输油管道，他们就可以起草建立他们自己的国家。那么我们应该为之感到难过吗？因为伊拉克可能会被分裂。我认为不然。伊拉克仍然会是世界上第二大产油国，仅次于沙特阿拉伯。而且我们有机会解决一个存在3000年的纷争。不要忘记库尔德是一个被陆地包围的地区。它必须循规蹈矩。要从它的石油中获取利益，它必须取道土耳其或者叙利亚输出石油，以及别的国家，包括伊拉克。因而它必须要和他们保持友好关系。
en:And today, if you go to Kurdistan,you&#39;ll see that Kurdish Peshmerga guerillasare squaring off against the Sunni Iraqi army.But what are they guarding?Is it really a border on the map?No. It&#39;s the pipelines.If the Kurds can control their pipelines, they can set the termsof their own statehood.Now should we be upset about this, about the potential disintegration of Iraq?I don&#39;t believe we should.Iraq will still be the second largest oil producer in the world,behind Saudi Arabia.And we&#39;ll have a chance to solve a 3,000 year old dispute.Now remember Kurdistan is landlocked.It has no choice but to behave.In order to profit from its oilit has to export it through Turkey or Syria,and other countries, and Iraq itself.And therefore it has to have amicable relations with them.
时间：10:23
zh-cn:现在我们看一下这个地区另外一个连年不断的冲突。显而易见，这就是巴勒斯坦。巴勒斯坦从地图上看是一个畸形儿，因为它由两部分巴勒斯坦和一部分以色列组成。30年的玫瑰花园外交并没有给这里的区域冲突中带来和平。那有其他办法吗？我认为要这个问题可以通过基础工程建设来解决。今天，捐助者正花费数十亿美金在此项目上。这两个箭头连成一条弧线，一条由客运火车线和其它基础设施连成的弧线连接西岸和加沙地带。
en:Now lets look at a perennial conflict in the region.That is, of course, in Palestine.Palestine is something of a cartographic anomalybecause it&#39;s two parts Palestinian, one part Israel.30 years of rose garden diplomacyhave not delivered us peace in this conflict.What might? I believe that what mightsolve the problem is infrastructure.Today donors are spending billions of dollars on this.These two arrows are an arc,an arc of commuter railroads and other infrastructurethat link the West Bank and Gaza.
时间：10:56
zh-cn:如果加沙有一个运营的港口跟西岸连通起来，那么就可以切实可行地成立一个巴勒斯坦国，以及巴勒斯坦经济体。我相信这一举措可以给这个区域带来和平。库尔德和巴勒斯坦的教训是独立本身，如果没有基础建设的支持，是没有意义的。
en:If Gaza can have a functioning portand be linked to the West Bank, you can have a viable Palestinian state,Palestinian economy.That, I believe, is going to bring peace to this particular conflict.The lesson from Kurdistan and from Palestineis that independence alone, without infrastructure,is futile.
时间：11:16
zh-cn:那么试想整个这个区域会呈现怎样一个面貌呢？如果我们也去关注地图上除了边界线之外的其他界线的话。那时候不稳定因素会大幅减少吗。上一次和平时期已经是一个世纪以前的事了，在奥斯曼帝国时期。这是Hijaz铁路线。Hijaz铁路线从斯坦布尔出发，途经大马士革，抵达麦地那。它甚至有一条支线可以抵达海法，位于今天的以色列，紧靠地中海。但是今天的Hijaz铁路线破败不堪。如果我们可以将地图上这些曲线重新建造起来的话，这些基础建设，穿越这些直线 — 疆界，我相信中东会成为一个远比现在和平的地区。
en:Now what might this entire region look likeif in fact we focus on other lines on the map besides borders,when the insecurities might abate?The last time that was the case was actuallya century ago, during the Ottoman Empire.This is the Hejaz Railway.The Hejaz Railway ran from Istanbul to Medina via Damascus.It even had an offshoot running to Haifain what is today Israel, on the Mediterranean Sea.But today the Hejaz Railway lies in tatters, ruins.If we were to focus on reconstructing these curvy lines on the map,infrastructure, that cross the straight lines, the borders,I believe the Middle East would be a far more peaceful region.
时间：11:53
zh-cn:让我们将目光转到地球上的另外一个区域，位于中亚地区的前苏联地区，这些斯坦国。这些国家的边界线来自于斯大林颁布的法令。他故意将这些国家分割得七零八落。他想让不同种族混居这样他就可以进行分裂和统治。而对这些国家来说幸运的是，他们大部分的油气资源是在苏联垮台之后发现的。
en:Now let&#39;s look at another part of the world,the former Soviet Republics of Central Asia, the &#39;stans.These countries&#39; borders originate from Stalin&#39;s decrees.He purposely did not want these countries to make sense.He wanted ethnicities to minglein ways that would allow him to divide and rule.Fortunately for them, most of their oil and gas resourceswere discovered after the Soviet Union collapsed.
时间：12:15
zh-cn:我知道你们中的一些人肯定在想，“石油，石油，又是石油，为什么他老在说石油呢？”请注意，以前我们讨论石油的方式和现在我们所讨论的方式是大不相同的。以前，我们会讨论我们如何控制他们的石油。而现在是，他们怎样利用自己的石油。我敢保证，现在对他们来说任何一滴石油都十分重要，和曾经对于殖民统治者和帝国主义者那样同样重要。这里是一些计划中的输油管道和一些可能的情况以及线路，也许会在未来的几十年内得以实现。非常之多。
en:Now I know some of you may be thinking, &quot;Oil, oil, oil.Why is it all he&#39;s talking about is oil?&quot;Well, there is a big difference in the way we used to talk about oiland the way we&#39;re talking about it now.Before it was, how do we control their oil?Now it&#39;s their oil for their own purposes.And I assure you it&#39;s every bit as important to themas it might have been to colonizers and imperialists.Here are just some of the pipeline projectionsand possibilities and scenariosand routes that are being mapped out for the next several decades.A great deal of them.
时间：12:45
zh-cn:对这个区域的一些国家来说，拥有输油管到就等同于拿到了加入全球经济体中的门票这对他们很有意义，加之边界对他们来存在变数。让我们举一下阿塞拜疆的例子。阿塞拜疆是高加索地区被遗忘一个的角落。但是随着Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan输油管道通往土耳其，它已重新将自己标榜为西方的前哨。
en:For a number of countries in this part of the world,having pipelines is the ticket to becoming part of the global economyand for having some meaningbesides the borders that they are not loyal to themselves.Just take Azerbaijan.Azerbaijan was a forgotten corner of the Caucuses,but now with the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline into Turkey,it has rebranded itself as the frontier of the west.
时间：13:07
zh-cn:还有土库曼斯坦，在许多人的印象里它就是一个天寒地冻的毫无希望之地。但是现在它正穿越里海将天然气输往欧洲，甚至有可能建造土库曼-阿富汗-巴基斯坦-印度输油管道。
en:Then there is Turkmenistan, which most people think ofas a frozen basket case.But now it&#39;s contributing gas across the Caspian Seato provide for Europe,and even a potentially Turkmen-Afghan-Pakistan-India pipeline as well.
时间：13:23
zh-cn:还有哈萨克斯坦，之前甚至没有一个正式的名字。在苏联时期它更多地被称作南西部利亚。而现在大部分人都认为哈萨克斯坦是一个新兴的地缘政治角色。为什么呢？因为它机智地设计了穿越里海的输油管道，往北进入俄罗斯的管道，甚至向西进入中国的管道。管道越多意味着“丝绸之路”也越多，而不再是大博弈。大博弈意味着一个国家对另外一个国家的主导。而丝绸之路意味着独立和互信。输油管道越多，那么丝绸之路也会越多，21世纪的主导权争夺战也会越来越少。
en:Then there is Kazakhstan, which didn&#39;t even have a name before.It was more considered South Siberia during the Soviet Union.Today most people recognize Kazakhstanas an emerging geopolitical player. Why?Because it has shrewdly designed pipelines to flow across the Caspian,north through Russia, and even east to China.More pipelines means more silk roads, instead of the Great Game.The Great Game connotes dominance of one over the other.Silk road connotes independence and mutual trust.The more pipelines we have, the more silk roads we&#39;ll have,and the less of a dominant Great Game competitionwe&#39;ll have in the 21st century.
时间：14:01
zh-cn:让我们来看一下这个世界上唯一真正放弃了边界的地区，以及这一举动如何让它自身变得更加强大。当然，这就是欧洲。欧盟仅起源于6个煤炭和钢铁联盟的国家。他们的主要目的实际上是为了帮助德国通过和平的方式得以复苏。但是却逐渐扩大到12个国家。这些国家就是欧盟旗帜上的12颗星。欧盟也成为了一个货币联盟，它是世界上现今最强大的贸易联盟。欧盟以平均每年吸纳一个新成员的速度扩张自从冷战以来。事实上，许多新成员都是同一天加入的。2004年，15个新成员国家加入了欧盟。现在，一个由27个国家和4.5亿人口组成的公认的和平区域呈现在我们面前。
en:Now let&#39;s look at the only part of the world that really has brought down its borders,and how that has enhanced its strength.And that is, of course, Europe.The European Union began as just the coal and steel community of six countries,and their main purpose was really to keep the rehabilitation of Germanyto happen in a peaceful way.But then eventually it grew into 12 countries,and those are the 12 stars on the European flag.The E.U. also became a currency block,and is now the most powerful trade block in the entire world.On average, the E.U. has grown by one country per yearsince the end of the Cold War.In fact most of that happened on just one day.In 2004, 15 new countries joined the E.U.and now you have what most people considera zone of peace spanning 27 countriesand 450 million people.
时间：14:48
zh-cn:那么下一步是什么？欧盟的未来会是怎样？这个浅蓝色区域，你可以看到至少2/3的地方依赖于与欧盟国家的贸易和投资。这又能说明什么呢？贸易和投资告诉我们欧洲并不是在纸上谈兵，而是付出了实际的行动。即使这些区域不是欧盟成员国，他们正逐渐加入欧盟影响圈。例如巴尔干半岛国家、克罗地亚、塞尔维亚、波斯尼亚，它们还不是欧盟成员国。但是你如果登上一辆德国ICE火车几乎可以到达阿尔巴尼亚。在波斯尼亚，你可以使用欧元，也许这将是他们从此以后使用的唯一货币。
en:So what is next? What is the future of the European Union?Well in light blue, you see the zonesor the regions that are at least two-thirdsor more dependent on the European Unionfor trade and investment.What does that tell us? Trade and investment tell usthat Europe is putting its money where its mouth is.Even if these regions aren&#39;t part of the E.U.,they are becoming part of its sphere of influence.Just take the Balkans. Croatia, SerbiaBosnia, they&#39;re not members of the E.U. yet.But you can get on a German ICE trainand make it almost to Albania.In Bosnia you use the Euro currency already,and that&#39;s the only currency they&#39;re probably ever going to have.
时间：15:26
zh-cn:让我们看一下欧洲的外围，例如北非。平均每年或者每两年，会有一条新的石油或者天然气运输管道穿越地中海，将北非与欧洲连接到一起。这不仅仅帮助欧洲减少了对俄罗斯在能源上的依赖，而且如果你今天去北非旅游，你会听到越来越多的人说他们并不属于中东地区。也就是说，我非常认同法国总统萨克齐关于地中海联盟的观点。
en:So, looking at other parts of Europe&#39;s periphery, such as North Africa.On average, every year or two,a new oil or gas pipeline opens up under the Mediterranean,connecting North Africa to Europe.That not only helps Europe diminish its relianceon Russia for energy,but if you travel to North Africa today, you&#39;ll hear more and more people sayingthat they don&#39;t really think of their region as the Middle East.So in other words, I believe that President Sarkozy of Franceis right when he talks about a Mediterranean union.
时间：15:55
zh-cn:再来看一下土耳其，和高加索国家。我之前提到过阿塞拜疆。土耳其和高加索地区的那条走廊已经成为欧洲20%能源供应的通道。土耳其难道非得要成为欧盟成员国吗？我认为不然。我认为它已经是欧洲-土耳其这个结构中的一个超级力量了。
en:Now let&#39;s look at Turkey and the Caucasus.I mentioned Azerbaijan before.That corridor of Turkey and the Caucasushas become the conduit for 20 percentof Europe&#39;s energy supply.So does Turkey really have to be a member of the European Union?I don&#39;t think it does. I think it&#39;s already part ofa Euro-Turkish superpower.
时间：16:14
zh-cn:那么接下来呢？我们会在哪些地方看到边界线的改变以及新国家的诞生？南亚中心地区，西南亚地区是一个很有可能的地方。在美国入侵阿富汗8年之后这个地区仍然充满了巨大的不稳定因素。巴基斯坦和阿富汗仍然如此脆弱以至于他们都没有实质性地处理普什图人的民族主义问题。这是存在于2000万普什图人心目中的国旗，他们住在阿富汗和巴基斯坦边界线的两边。
en:So what&#39;s next? Where are we going to see borders changeand new countries born?Well, South Central Asia, South West Asiais a very good place to start.Eight years after the U.S. invaded Afghanistanthere is still a tremendous amount of instability.Pakistan and Afghanistan are still so fragilethat neither of them have dealt constructivelywith the problem of Pashtun nationalism.This is the flag that flies in the mindsof 20 million Pashtunswho live on both sides of the Afghan and Pakistan border.
时间：16:42
zh-cn:不要忘了在南部还有叛乱。俾路支。两周前，俾路支叛军对巴基斯坦的一个军事守备部队进行了攻击这就是他们在攻击时举起的旗帜。后殖民时期国家解体在全球发生并在加速。我预期地图上如此的改变会随着这些国家的分解而越来越多。
en:Let&#39;s not neglect the insurgency just to the south,Balochistan. Two weeks ago,Balochi rebels attacked a Pakistani military garrison,and this was the flag that they raised over it.The post-colonial entropythat is happening around the world is accelerating,and I expect more such changes to occur in the mapas the states fragment.
时间：17:02
zh-cn:当然我们不能忘了非洲。53个国家，拥有世界地图上最多的充满疑问的直线型疆界的地方。如果我们全盘地看一下非洲，我们可以毫无异议地看到比其他地方多得多的诸如部落纷争之类的冲突。我就举苏丹的例子，非洲第二大国家。它有三场连绵不断的内战，达尔福尔的种族灭绝战，这大家都知道，这个国家东部的内战，还有苏丹南部地区的内战。南部苏丹将在2011年举行公投很可能这次投票的结果将是独立。
en:Of course, we can&#39;t forget Africa.53 countries, and by far the most numberof suspiciously straight lines on the map.If we were to look at all of Africawe could most certainly acknowledge far more,tribal divisions and so forth.But let&#39;s just look at Sudan, the second-largest country in Africa.It has three ongoing civil wars,the genocide in Darfur, which you all know about,the civil war in the east of the country,and south Sudan.South Sudan is going to be having a referendum in 2011in which it is very likely to vote itself independence.
时间：17:35
zh-cn:往北，到北极圈附近.这里正上演着一场对北极海床底下能源的争夺战。谁会胜利？加拿大？俄罗斯？还是美国？事实上格陵兰岛将是赢家。数周前，格陵兰岛的6万居民投票表决，取得了从丹麦独立的自治权。因而丹麦将会缩小很多。
en:Now let&#39;s go up to the Arctic Circle.There is a great race on for energy resourcesunder the Arctic seabed.Who will win? Canada? Russia? The United States?Actually Greenland.Several weeks ago Greenland&#39;s [60,000] peoplevoted themselves self-governance rightsfrom Denmark.So Denmark is about to get a whole lot smaller.
时间：17:57
zh-cn:这里得出的教训是什么呢？地缘政治是一个非常冷酷的学科。它不断地改变世界,好似气候变化。正如我们与生态系统的关系一样，我们总在寻找一种平衡我们如何在这个星球上分布。我们害怕地图上的这些改变。我们害怕战争、死亡，以及熟悉新诞生的国家的名字等。但我认为， 我们今天边界线要是一直存在下去的话更糟糕，会带来更多的暴力。
en:What is the lesson from all of this?Geopolitics is a very unsentimental discipline.It&#39;s constantly morphing and changing the world,like climate change.And like our relationship with the ecosystemwe&#39;re always searching for equilibriumin how we divide ourselves across the planet.Now we fear changes on the map.We fear civil wars, death tolls,having to learn the names of new countries.But I believe that the inertia of the existing borders that we have todayis far worse and far more violent.
时间：18:26
zh-cn:问题是我们该如何改变这些边界线，那些线条是我们要关注的？我认为我们应该关注那些跨越边界的线，那些基础设施建设的线条，我们就能打造一个我们所畅想的世界，一个无国界的世界。谢谢！（掌声）
en:The question is how do we change those borders,and what lines do we focus on?I believe we focus on the lines that cross borders,the infrastructure lines.Then we&#39;ll wind up with the world we want, a borderless one.Thank you.(Applause)
