时间： 0:11
zh-cn:作为一名粒子物理学家，我研究基本粒子以及它们如何在微观上如何相互作用对于我大部分的研究，我一直在使用加速器，例如在斯坦福大学路边的电子加速器去在微观上研究物质。但是最近，我的注意力转向了宏观上整个宇宙。因为，正如我将要对你们解释的，宏观和微观上的问题其实是非常相关的。所以我将要告诉你们关于我们21世纪的宇宙观，它是由什么构成的，以及什么是物理学中的一些大问题—-至少是它们中的一些大问题。
en:As a particle physicist, I study the elementary particlesand how they interact on the most fundamental level.For most of my research career, I&#39;ve been using accelerators,such as the electron accelerator at Stanford University, just up the road,to study things on the smallest scale.But more recently, I&#39;ve been turning my attentionto the universe on the largest scale.Because, as I&#39;ll explain to you,the questions on the smallest and the largest scale are actually very connected.So I&#39;m going to tell you about our twenty-first-century view of the universe,what it&#39;s made of and what the big questions in the physical sciences are —at least some of the big questions.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:最近，我们意识到宇宙中的普通物质—-我指的普通物质，我的意思是你，我行星，横星，银河系—-普通物质仅仅占据宇宙组成的一小部分。近乎四分之一，或者大约四分之一的宇宙组成是一些不可见的东西。不可见，我指的是它不吸收地磁波谱。在光谱中不放射电磁波。它不反射电磁波。它在电磁波谱照射下不发生反应，而这却是我们如何用来检测物质的方法。它根本不反应。所以我们如何知道它们在那？我的得知它们存在通过引力效应。实际上，这种暗物质宏观上统治宇宙中的引力效应，我将会告诉你们它的证据。
en:So, recently, we have realizedthat the ordinary matter in the universe —and by ordinary matter, I mean you, me,the planets, the stars, the galaxies —the ordinary matter makes up only a few percentof the content of the universe.Almost a quarter, or approximately a quarterof the matter in the universe, is stuff that&#39;s invisible.By invisible, I mean it doesn&#39;t absorb in the electromagnetic spectrum.It doesn&#39;t emit in the electromagnetic spectrum. It doesn&#39;t reflect.It doesn&#39;t interact with the electromagnetic spectrum,which is what we use to detect things.It doesn&#39;t interact at all. So how do we know it&#39;s there?We know it&#39;s there by its gravitational effects.In fact, this dark matter dominatesthe gravitational effects in the universe on a large scale,and I&#39;ll be telling you about the evidence for that.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:派的其它部分是什么呢？这个派的其它部分是一种十分神秘的物质，叫做暗能量。一会再讨论它。所以现在，我们来谈谈暗物质存在的证据。在这些星系中，尤其是在一个像这样的螺旋星系中，大部分的质量集中在星系的中央。这些恒星巨大的质量使得这些星星在星系中沿圆周运动轨道运动。所以我们看到这些恒星沿圆圈这样运动。如你所想，即使你不知道物理——这应该是很直观的，这些靠近中心的恒星将会以更高的速度旋转，相比于在外面的这些。
en:What about the rest of the pie?The rest of the pie is a very mysterious substance called dark energy.More about that later, OK.So for now, let&#39;s turn to the evidence for dark matter.In these galaxies, especially in a spiral galaxy like this,most of the mass of the stars is concentrated in the middle of the galaxy.This huge mass of all these stars keeps stars in circular orbits in the galaxy.So we have these stars going around in circles like this.As you can imagine, even if you know physics, this should be intuitive, OK —that stars that are closer to the mass in the middle will be rotating at a higher speedthan those that are further out here, OK.
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:所以，你所期待的也许是如果你测量这些恒星运动的轨道速度，它们（速度）应该是边缘的比里面的慢。换言之，如果我们测量速度作为距离的函数—-这是我唯一一次展示图表，好吗？我们会期待它（速度）会减小随着距离星系中央的路程增加。当这些被测量，反而，我们发现这个速度基本上是一个常数，作为距离的函数。如果它（速度）是一个常数，这意味着外面的恒星正在感受到一些我们看不到物质所施加的引力效应。事实上，这个星系以及每一个其它的星系似乎被内嵌在一团我们看不到的暗物质中。这团物质比星系本身更加类似于球形，而且它们（暗物质）比星系本身延伸至更广的范围。所以，我们注视着这个星系，但是它其实实在一团决定它们结构与动态的暗物质中。
en:So what you would expect is that if you measured the orbital speed of the stars,that they should be slower on the edges than on the inside.In other words, if we measured speed as a function of distance —this is the only time I&#39;m going to show a graph, OK —we would expect that it goes down as the distance increasesfrom the center of the galaxy.When those measurements are made,instead what we find is that the speed is basically constant,as a function of distance.If it&#39;s constant, that means that the stars out hereare feeling the gravitational effects of matter that we do not see.In fact, this galaxy and every other galaxyappears to be embedded in a cloud of this invisible dark matter.And this cloud of matter is much more spherical than the galaxy themselves,and it extends over a much wider range than the galaxy.So we see the galaxy and fixate on that, but it&#39;s actually a cloud of dark matterthat&#39;s dominating the structure and the dynamics of this galaxy.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:星系本身并不是任意地散布在空间中；它们趋向于聚集在一起。这是一个实际上非常著名的星系团：后发座（Coma）星系团。而且这个星系团中有数以千计的星系。它们是这些白色的，模糊的，椭圆的东西。所以，这些星系团——我们现在拍一张照，十年后我们拍一张照——它们将会看起来一模一样。但是这些星系团其实在以极高的速度运动。它们其实在这个星系团的引力势阱中运动。所以，这些星系在运动。我们可以测量这些星系的速率，它们的轨道速度，并算出星系团中有多少质量。
en:Galaxies themselves are not strewn randomly in space;they tend to cluster.And this is an example of a very, actually, famous cluster, the Coma cluster.And there are thousands of galaxies in this cluster.They&#39;re the white, fuzzy, elliptical things here.So these galaxy clusters — we take a snapshot now,we take a snapshot in a decade, it&#39;ll look identical.But these galaxies are actually moving at extremely high speeds.They&#39;re moving around in this gravitational potential well of this cluster, OK.So all of these galaxies are moving.We can measure the speeds of these galaxies, their orbital velocities,and figure out how much mass is in this cluster.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:并且再一次，我们发现的这里有更多的质量相比于我们实际看到的星系所能证明的。或者我们看其它部分的电磁波谱，我们看到这里也有很多气体。但是那也不能解释这些质量。事实上，这里有大约10倍多的质量以暗物质存在相比于普通物质。如果我们能更直接地看到暗物质，那会更好我只放一个大的蓝色的水泡在这里，试图提醒你它们（暗物质）在这里。我们能更形象地看到它们嘛？是的，我们可以。
en:And again, what we find is that there is much more mass therethan can be accounted for by the galaxies that we see.Or if we look in other parts of the electromagnetic spectrum,we see that there&#39;s a lot of gas in this cluster, as well.But that cannot account for the mass either.In fact, there appears to be about ten times as much mass herein the form of this invisible or dark matteras there is in the ordinary matter, OK.It would be nice if we could see this dark matter a little bit more directly.I&#39;m just putting this big, blue blob on there, OK,to try to remind you that it&#39;s there.Can we see it more visually? Yes, we can.
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:那么让我帮助你们了解如何这样做。那么这里是一个观察器：它可以是一只眼睛；它可以是一个望远镜。假设在宇宙中有一个星系。我们如何能看到那个星系？一束光离开星系并穿过宇宙经过了也许几十亿年在它进入望远镜或者你的眼睛之前。现在，你如何猜测星系的位置？嗯，我们猜测它的位置根据光线传播进入我们眼睛的方向？例如，这束光这样出来，星系一定在那。现在，假设我在屏幕中央放一个星系团—-别忘了还有暗物质，好吗？现在，如果我们考虑另外一束像这样离开的光线，我们现在需要考虑爱因斯坦当他发展广义相对论的时候，曾经预言过的（现象）。那就是由于有质量，引力场不仅会使粒子的运动轨迹偏转，而且会使光本身偏转。
en:And so let me lead you through how we can do this.So here&#39;s an observer:it could be an eye; it could be a telescope.And suppose there&#39;s a galaxy out here in the universe.How do we see that galaxy?A ray of light leaves the galaxy and travels through the universefor perhaps billions of yearsbefore it enters the telescope or your eye.Now, how do we deduce where the galaxy is?Well, we deduce it by the direction that the ray is travelingas it enters our eye, right?We say, the ray of light came this way;the galaxy must be there, OK.Now, suppose I put in the middle a cluster of galaxies —and don&#39;t forget the dark matter, OK.Now, if we consider a different ray of light, one going off like this,we now need to take into accountwhat Einstein predicted when he developed general relativity.And that was that the gravitational field, due to mass,will deflect not only the trajectory of particles,but will deflect light itself.
时间： 5:20
zh-cn:所以这束光不会沿直线行进，相反会弯曲然后最终进入我们的眼睛这个观察器会在哪里看到星系呢？你们可以回答我。上面，对吗？我们倒推然后确定星系在这里。这里还有其它的可以进入观察者眼睛的光线嘛？是的，非常好。我看到人们做向下的姿势。一束光也可以往下走，然后弯曲进入观察者的眼睛，这个观察着便会在这里看到一束光。
en:So this light ray will not continue in a straight line,but would rather bend and could end up going into our eye.Where will this observer see the galaxy?You can respond. Up, right?We extrapolate backwards and say the galaxy is up here.Is there any other ray of lightthat could make into the observer&#39;s eye from that galaxy?Yes, great. I see people going down like this.So a ray of light could go down, be bentup into the observer&#39;s eye,and the observer sees a ray of light here.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:现在，考虑我们生活在三维宇宙的事实一个三维空间。还有其它光线可以进入我们的眼睛嘛？是的，光线可以排列在一个—-我希望看到—-对了，一个圆锥形所以，许多束光会在一个圆锥上—-它们都被弯曲过然后进入观察者的眼睛。如果有锥形的光进入我的眼睛，我看到了什么？一个圆圈，一个环形。它被称作一个爱因斯坦环—-爱因斯坦预言了它那么，它仅仅会是一个完美的环形如果它的源，这个偏导物质以及我们的眼球，在这个情况下，恰好在一条直线上。如果它们被略微偏转，我们将会看到一个不同的图像
en:Now, take into account the fact that we live ina three-dimensional universe, OK,a three-dimensional space.Are there any other rays of light that could make it into the eye?Yes! The rays would lie on a — I&#39;d like to see — yeah, on a cone.So there&#39;s a whole ray of light — rays of light on a cone —that will all be bent by that clusterand make it into the observer&#39;s eye.If there is a cone of light coming into my eye, what do I see?A circle, a ring. It&#39;s called an Einstein ring. Einstein predicted that, OK.Now, it will only be a perfect ring if the source, the deflectorand the eyeball, in this case, are all in a perfectly straight line.If they&#39;re slightly skewed, we&#39;ll see a different image.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:你们今晚在招待会后可以做一个试验，去看到这个图像会是什么样子。因为我们可以设计一种透镜，它（透镜）有产生这种现象的合适的形状。我们称它为引力透镜。所以，这是你们的仪器（笑声）但是忽略上部。我希望你们关注它的底座。所以实际上，在家里，不管何时我们打碎一个玻璃酒杯，我保留它的底部，把它送去机械修理店。我们把它剃掉，然后我就有了一个引力透镜。所以，它有合适产生透镜效果的形状。所以，你在实验中需要做的下一件事情，就是找来一张餐巾纸。我找来了一张坐标纸；我是一个物理学家。（笑声）那么，一张餐巾纸。在中间画一个小小的星系模型。然后现在把透镜放到星系上，你将看到的是，一个爱因斯坦环。现在，把底座移到另一边，然后，这个圆环会分裂成一些弧形。你可以把它放到任何图像上。在坐标纸上你可以看到这些线是如何被扭曲的。再一次说明，这是一种非常精确的模型去解释引力透镜产生的现象。
en:Now, you can do an experiment tonight over the reception, OK,to figure out what that image will look like.Because it turns out that there is a kind of lens that we can devise,that has the right shape to produce this kind of effect.We call this gravitational lensing.And so, this is your instrument, OK.(Laughter).But ignore the top part.It&#39;s the base that I want you to concentrate, OK.So, actually, at home, whenever we break a wineglass,I save the bottom, take it over to the machine shop.We shave it off, and I have a little gravitational lens, OK.So it&#39;s got the right shape to produce the lensing.And so the next thing you need to do in your experimentis grab a napkin. I grabbed a piece of graph paper — I&#39;m a physicist. (Laughter)So, a napkin. Draw a little model galaxy in the middle.And now put the lens over the galaxy,and what you&#39;ll find is that you&#39;ll see a ring, an Einstein ring.Now, move the base off to the side,and the ring will split up into arcs, OK.And you can put it on top of any image.On the graph paper, you can seehow all the lines on the graph paper have been distorted.And again, this is a kind of an accurate modelof what happens with the gravitational lensing.
时间： 7:41
zh-cn:那么，问题是：我们在天空中看到这个吗？当我们看一个星系团的时候，我们能看到弧形吗？答案是:是的。这是来自哈勃望远镜的图像。你看到的许多图像来自早期的哈勃望远镜。嗯，首先，关于这些金色的星系—-它们是在星系团中的一些星系。它们嵌在一团暗物质中因而引起了光的弯曲引起了这些视错觉，或者差不多，蜃景，来自后面的星系。所以你看到条纹，所有这些条纹，其实都是更远出的扭曲的星系的图像。
en:OK, so the question is: do we see this in the sky?Do we see arcs in the sky when we look at, say, a cluster of galaxies?And the answer is yes.And so, here&#39;s an image from the Hubble Space Telescope.Many of the images you are seeingare earlier from the Hubble Space Telescope.Well, first of all, for the golden shape galaxies —those are the galaxies in the cluster.They&#39;re the ones that are embedded in that sea of dark matterthat are causing the bending of the lightto cause these optical illusions, or mirages, practically,of the background galaxies.So the streaks that you see, all these streaks,are actually distorted images of galaxies that are much further away.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:那么我们能做的，就是根据扭曲程度的大小来自这些图像，我们可以计算出在这团星系中一定有多少质量。质量的总额是十分庞大的。所以，你可以通过观察它（图像），辨别这些弧线的中心不是某一个星系；它们（弧线）以一个更加扩散的的结构为中心。这就是暗物质星系嵌入其中。这是最接近于看到至少通过肉眼看到暗物质的影响。
en:So what we can do, then, is based on how much distortionwe see in those images, we can calculate how much massthere must be in this cluster.And it&#39;s an enormous amount of mass.And also, you can tell by eye, by looking at this,that these arcs are not centered on individual galaxies.They are centered on some more spread out structure,and that is the dark matterin which the cluster is embedded, OK.So this is the closest you can get to kind of seeingat least the effects of the dark matter with your naked eye.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:那么，一个非常快的回顾，以知道你们正在跟随。我们有的证据证明这¼是暗物质—-这些以引力作用吸引的东西—-（证据）是这些行星围绕星系运动的速率（速率）过大；它（行星）一定嵌在暗物质中星系在星系团中的圆周运动速度太大了；它（星系）一定嵌在暗物质中我们看到了这些引力透镜的效应。这些扭曲（的现象）再次证明，星系团嵌在暗物质中。
en:OK, so, a quick review then, to see that you&#39;re following.So the evidence that we havethat a quarter of the universe is dark matter —this gravitationally attracting stuff —is that galaxies, the speed with which stars orbiting galaxiesis much too large; it must be embedded in dark matter.The speed with which galaxies within clusters are orbiting is much too large;it must be embedded in dark matter.And we see these gravitational lensing effects, these distortionsthat say that, again, clusters are embedded in dark matter.
时间： 9:22
zh-cn:好。现在我们转向暗能量。所以为了了解暗能量的证据，我们需要讨论一些史蒂芬霍金前一段谈到的现象。那就是宇宙正在扩张的事实。所以如果我们想象无限宇宙中一小部分，然后我放4个漩涡星系，假设你放一套卷尺，这里的每一条线对以一个卷尺—-水平的或垂直的—-用来测量东西的位置。如果你可以这样做，你将发现的是每过去一天，每过去一年，每过去几十亿年星系间的距离正在变得更大。然而这并不是因为星系在运动在空间中互相远离；他们不一定在动。他们正在远离对方因为空间本身正在扩张。这是宇宙或者空间扩张的意思。所以他们正运动地越来越远。
en:OK. So now, let&#39;s turn to dark energy.So to understand the evidence for dark energy, we need to discuss somethingthat Stephen Hawking referred to in the previous session.And that is the fact that space itself is expanding.So if we imagine a section of our infinite universe —and so I&#39;ve put down four spiral galaxies, OK —and imagine that you put down a set of tape measures,so every line on here corresponds to a tape measure,horizontal or vertical, for measuring where things are.If you could do this, what you would findthat with each passing day, each passing year,each passing billions of years, OK,the distance between galaxies is getting greater.And it&#39;s not because galaxies are movingaway from each other through space.They&#39;re not necessarily moving through space.They&#39;re moving away from each otherbecause space itself is getting bigger, OK.That&#39;s what the expansion of the universe or space means.So they&#39;re moving further apart.
时间：10:23
zh-cn:史蒂芬霍金也提到的，在大爆炸之后，宇宙空间以非常快的速率扩张。但是因为制造引力的物质嵌在这个空间中，它（暗物质）倾向于减慢空间扩张的速率。所以扩张的速率随着时间减慢。所以，上个世纪，人们辩论宇宙是否会永远扩张，是否会减慢，或者是否会减慢，但是永远进行。或者减慢并停止，接近停止。或者减慢，停止，然后在颠倒，再重新收缩。所以十多年后，两组物理学家和天文学家着手测量宇宙减速扩张的速率。通过它今天少扩张了多少，用于和几十亿年前比较。
en:Now, what Stephen Hawking mentioned, as well,is that after the Big Bang, space expanded at a very rapid rate.But because gravitationally attracting matteris embedded in this space,it tends to slow down the expansion of the space, OK.So the expansion slows down with time.So, in the last century, OK, people debatedabout whether this expansion of space would continue forever;whether it would slow down, you know,will be slowing down, but continue forever;slow down and stop, asymptotically stop;or slow down, stop, and then reverse, so it starts to contract again.So a little over a decade ago,two groups of physicists and astronomersset out to measure the rate at whichthe expansion of space was slowing down, OK.By how much less is it expanding today,compared to, say, a couple of billion years ago?
时间：11:26
zh-cn:这个问题的令人吃惊的答案是，根据这些实验，宇宙本身今天正在以更快的速率扩张，相比于几十亿年前。所以宇宙空间的扩张正在加速。这是完全令人惊讶的结果。没有令人信服的理论依据解释为什么这会发生。没有人事先预言了什么将会被发现。它（实验结果）和我们的期望是相反的。所以我们需要一些东西去解释它。现在，在数学中，你可以放入一项成为能量。但是它是一种不同的能量和我们见过的都不一样。我们叫它暗能量，而且它有使宇宙扩张的影响。但是我们现在还没有很好的动机去（在数学中）放入这样一项。所以，无法解释为什么我们需要放入这样一项。
en:The startling answer to this question, OK, from these experiments,was that space is expanding at a faster rate todaythan it was a few billion years ago, OK.So the expansion of space is actually speeding up.This was a completely surprising result.There is no persuasive theoretical argument for why this should happen, OK.No one was predicting ahead of time this is what&#39;s going to be found.It was the opposite of what was expected.So we need something to be able to explain that.Now it turns out, in the mathematics,you can put it in as a term that&#39;s an energy,but it&#39;s a completely different type of energyfrom anything we&#39;ve ever seen before.We call it dark energy,and it has this effect of causing space to expand.But we don&#39;t have a good motivationfor putting it in there at this point, OK.So it&#39;s really unexplained as to why we need to put it in.
时间：12:19
zh-cn:现在，这个时候，我想强调的是，首先，暗物质和暗能量是完全不同的东西。它们是宇宙中关于组成成分的两个谜题，而且它们影响不同。暗物质，因为它的引力效应，它倾向于促成固定结构的形成。所以这些星系构成的星系团会形成，原因是引力作用。暗能量，另一方面，在星系之间产生越来越多的空间。使它们之间的引力作用减小，因为它（暗能量）阻碍了固定结构的形成。通过看这些星系的星系团，以及它们如何——它们的数密度—-—-它们的数量以时间为函数，我们可以了解暗物质、暗能量如何在结构的形成上互相竞争。
en:Now, so at this point, then, what I want to really emphasize to you,is that, first of all, dark matter and dark energyare completely different things, OK.There are really two mysteries out there as to what makes up most of the universe,and they have very different effects.Dark matter, because it gravitationally attracts,it tends to encourage the growth of structure, OK.So clusters of galaxies will tend to form,because of all this gravitational attraction.Dark energy, on the other hand,is putting more and more space between the galaxies,makes it, the gravitational attraction between them decrease,and so it impedes the growth of structure.So by looking at things like clusters of galaxies,and how they — their number density,how many there are as a function of time —we can learn about how dark matter and dark energycompete against each other in structure forming.
时间：13:14
zh-cn:在暗物质方面，我说过我们没有任何真正有说服力的论据来解释暗能量。我们有暗物质的证据嘛？答案是：是的。我们有非常好的动机给暗能量指定一个候选人。现在，我指的“好动机”是什么？我的意思是说我们有数学上统一的理论被引入去解释一个完全不同的现象一些我还没有讨论到的现象，（现象）每个预言了新的弱作用粒子。。
en:In terms of dark matter, I said that we don&#39;t have any,you know, really persuasive argument for dark energy.Do we have anything for dark matter? And the answer is yes.We have well-motivated candidates for the dark matter.Now, what do I mean by well motivated?I mean that we have mathematically consistent theoriesthat were actually introducedto explain a completely different phenomenon, OK,things that I haven&#39;t even talked about,that each predict the existenceof a very weakly interacting, new particle.
时间：13:48
zh-cn:这正是在物理中你想要的：当一个预言从相容的数学理论中推断出来然后实际上被发展用以解释其它东西。但是我们不知道是否他们中的一个其实是暗物质的候选者。一个或者两个都是，谁知道呢？或者它可以使一些完全不同的东西。现在，我们寻找这些暗物质粒子因为毕竟它们在这里，在这个房间里，而且它们不进门。它们仅仅穿越一切。它们穿过建筑，穿过地球；它们如此不活泼。
en:So, this is exactly what you want in physics:where a prediction comes out of a mathematically consistent theorythat was actually developed for something else.But we don&#39;t know if either of thoseare actually the dark matter candidate, OK.One or both, who knows? Or it could be something completely different.Now, we look for these dark matter particlesbecause, after all, they are here in the room, OK,and they didn&#39;t come in the door.They just pass through anything.They can come through the building, through the Earth —they&#39;re so non-interacting.
时间：14:17
zh-cn:所以一种寻找它们的方式是修建探测器对于暗物质粒子穿过碰撞它极度敏感的探测器。一种晶体振子在它发生时会振动。我的一个同事和他的合作者在路边已经修建了一个这样的探测器。他们把它（探测器）深深地放在明尼苏达州的底下铁矿中，底下非常深的地方。实际上，在过去的几天里至今所公布过的最敏锐的结果显示。他们没有看到任何东西，但是这给暗物质的质量以及相互酌强度作了限制。今年将会有卫星望远镜发射。它将会关注星系中心，以观测是否我们可以看到暗物质湮灭并产生可以用这种方式检测到的γ射线。那个大的强子碰撞器，一个粒子物理加速器，今年将会开启。很可能暗物质离子会产生于大的强子碰撞机。
en:So one way to look for them is to build detectorsthat are extremely sensitive to a dark matter particle coming through and bumping it.So a crystal that will ring if that happens.So one of my colleagues up the road and his collaboratorshave built such a detector.And they&#39;ve put it deep down in an iron mine in Minnesota,OK, deep under the ground, and in fact, in the last couple of daysannounced the most sensitive results so far.They haven&#39;t seen anything, OK, but it puts limits on what the massand the interaction strength of these dark matter particles are.There&#39;s going to be a satellite telescope launched later this yearand it will look towards the middle of the galaxy,to see if we can see dark matter particles annihilatingand producing gamma rays that could be detected with this.The Large Hadron Collider, a particle physics accelerator,that we&#39;ll be turning on later this year.It is possible that dark matter particles might be producedat the Large Hadron Collider.
时间：15:10
zh-cn:现在，因为它们如此不活泼，他们其实将会逃离探测器，所以，它们的署名将会是丢失的能量。不幸的是，很多新的物理量它们（物理量）可以代表能量损失，所以，很难辨别它们（代表能量损失的物理量）。最终，关于未来的努力，现在有设计的望远镜专门研究暗物质和暗能量：一些地面望远镜。而且现在又3架以空间为基地的望远镜现在正在竞争被发射以研究暗物质和暗能量。所以，关于这些大问题：什么是暗物质？什么是暗能量?是物理学面对的大问题。而且，我确定你们有很多问题。我期待着在接下来的我在这里的72小时讨论它们（问题）。好的。谢谢。（掌声）
en:Now, because they are so non-interactive,they will actually escape the detector,so their signature will be missing energy, OK.Now, unfortunately, there is a lot of new physicswhose signature could be missing energy,so it will be hard to tell the difference.And finally, for future endeavors, there are telescopes being designedspecifically to address the questions of dark matter and dark energy —ground-based telescopes, and there are three space-based telescopesthat are in competition right nowto be launched to investigate dark matter and dark energy.So in terms of the big questions:what is dark matter? What is dark energy?The big questions facing physics.And I&#39;m sure you have lots of questions,which I very much look forward to addressingover the next 72 hours, while I&#39;m here. Thank you.(Applause)
