时间： 0:12
zh-cn:你好.事实上那是Bauer Bodoni体的“你好”特意为我们当中的字体狂们解释一下近来传递出来的一条清楚明白的信息，就是要调和“大”的需要——“大”指组织、系统、国家——和“小”的需要——那些个体、个人。以及如何将两者联系起来我想，昨天，Charlie Ledbetter讲得非常清楚有必要把消费者、把人引入到创造事物的过程中来。而这就是我今天想要讲的内容。那么，通过聚“小”来造“大”，我想，这是我们的信念——我的信念，并且某种意义上我们也在实现它，通过我们在IDEO的工作。
en:Hello. Actually, that&#39;s &quot;hello&quot; in Bauer Bodonifor the typographically hysterical amongst us.One of the threads that seems to have come throughloud and clear in the last couple of daysis this need to reconcile what the Big wants —the &quot;Big&quot; being the organization, the system, the country —and what the &quot;Small&quot; wants — the individual, the person.And how do you bring those two things together?Charlie Ledbetter, yesterday, I thought, talked very articulatelyabout this need to bring consumers, to bring peopleinto the process of creating things.And that&#39;s what I want to talk about today.So, bringing together the Small to help facilitate and create the Big,I think, is something that we believe in — something I believe in,and something that we kind of bring to lifethrough what we do at Ideo.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:特别为在座的英国观众，我把这第一章叫做——熟视无睹往往好主意近在眼前，而你却看不到。我想，很多时候，我们所做的只是拿着镜子对着客户，说：“呃，你来，看看到底怎么回事”并不是坐而论道，我来举个例子吧。明尼苏达的一家很大的医疗保险机构曾经找到我们让我们向他们描述他们病患的体验。我想他们预期的是——他们肯定找过很多咨询公司——我想他们预期的是那些讨厌的组织结构图成百上千的气泡图和这系统那系统什么的，还有各种图示或者更糟，那些吓死人的PPT满是Wow图表，各种鬼东西。
en:I call this first chapter — for the Brits in the room —the &quot;Blinding Glimpse of the Bleeding Obvious.&quot;Often, the good ideas are so staring-at-you-right-in-the-facethat you kind of miss them. And I think, a lot of times,what we do is just, sort of, hold the mirror up to our clients, and sort of go,&quot;Duh! You know, look what&#39;s really going on.&quot;And rather than talk about it in the theory,I think I&#39;m just going to show you an example.We were asked by a large healthcare system in Minnesotato describe to them what their patient experience was.And I think they were expecting —they&#39;d worked with lots of consultants before —I think they were expecting some kind of hideous org chartwith thousands of bubbles and systemic this, that and the other,and all kinds of mappy stuff.Or even worse, some kind of ghastly death-by-Powerpoint thingwith WowCharts and all kinds of, you know, God knows, whatever.
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:而事实上，我们首先和他们分享的是这个：我要播放到你们的眼珠子蹦出来为止。这是影片第59秒的地方。这是1分59秒的地方。3分19秒。我想会有事发生。很快可能会有个头出现5分10秒。5分58秒。6分20秒。我们给他们放了整段的录像，然后他们全都问，这是什么？重点是，当你躺在医院的床上一整天，你能做的无非是看天花板，而这感受的确非常糟糕。你需要把自己放在病人的角度看问题。
en:The first thing we actually shared with them was this.I&#39;ll play this until your eyeballs completely dissolve.This is 59 seconds into the film.This is a minute 59.3:19.I think something happens. I think a head may appear in a second.5:10.5:58.6:20.We showed them the whole cut,and they were all completely, what is this?And the point is when you lie in a hospital bed all day,all you do is look at the roof, and it&#39;s a really shitty experience.And just putting yourself in the position of the patient —
时间： 2:49
zh-cn:这是Christian，我们在Ideo的同事。他就这么躺在医院的病床上，盯着聚苯乙烯的天花板很长很长时间。住院病人的感觉就是这样的。而他们对此却有点视而不见。天哪，从当事人的角度来重新审视这情形——而不是从传统的组织内的角度去看——对他们来说是莫大的启发。那对他们来说也是催化剂。于是他们迅速付诸行动。他们说：好，这不是什么系统性变革。要做的不是荒谬的大工程而是能造成巨大不同的细小的事
en:this is Christian, who works with us at Ideo.He just lay in the hospital bed,and, kind of, stared at the polystyrene ceiling tilesfor a really long time.That&#39;s what it&#39;s like to be a patient in the hospital.And they were sort, you know, blinding glimpse of bleeding obvious.Oh, my goodness. So, looking at the situationfrom the point of view of the person out —as opposed to the traditional position of the organization in —was, for these guys, quite a revelation.And so, that was a really catalytic thing for them.So they snapped into action.They said, OK, it&#39;s not about systemic change.It&#39;s not about huge, ridiculous things that we need to do.It&#39;s about tiny things that can make a huge amount of difference.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:于是我们从他们这里进行了一些小细节的原型设计那些能带来很大影响的小细节。首先我们找来了一个小的自行车后镜把它贴在医院的推车上这样子当你被护士或者医生推着到处跑的时候你就可以跟他们对话。你可以在你的后视镜里看到他们，从而创造了一个小型的人性互动。这是他们可做的事情当中的一个小例子。有趣的是，护士们都迫不及待的采取行动——说，好，我们拥护这个理念。我们能做什么？他们做的第一件事情是装饰了天花板。我觉得这很... 最近我拿这个给我妈看，我妈现在估计以为我是搞室内装潢什么的。这就是我谋生的手段，就像Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen,对那些大牌设计师而言，这些算不上世界上最好的设计。但是无论如何，是出色的充满人性的方案。他们自发的、在做的事情——比如把病房门口的地板改掉以显示说“这是我的房间。这是我的私人空间”——是个对问题很有趣的解答
en:So we started with them prototyping some really little thingsthat we could do to have a huge amount of impact.The first thing we did was we took a little bicycle mirrorand we Band-Aided it here, onto a gurney, a hospital trolley,so that when you were wheeled around by a nurse or by a doctor,you could actually have a conversation with them.You could, kind of, see them in your rear-view mirror,so it created a tiny human interaction.Very small example of something that they could do.Interestingly, the nurses themselves, sort of, snapped into action —said, OK, we embrace this. What can we do?The first thing they do is they decorated the ceiling.Which I thought was really — I showed this to my mother recently.I think my mother now thinks that I&#39;m some sort of interior decorator.It&#39;s what I do for a living, sort of Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen.Not particularly the world&#39;s best design solutionfor those of us who are real, sort of, hard-core designers,but nonetheless, a fabulous empathic solution for people.Things that they started doing themselves —like changing the floor going into the patient&#39;s roomso that it signified, &quot;This is my room. This is my personal space&quot; —was a really interesting sort of design solution to the problem.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:于是你从公共区域进入了私人空间。另外一个创意，来自一个护士——我很喜欢这想法——他们把传统的公司用的白板放到病房的墙上然后放这些贴纸上去。于是你可以走进房间给里面的病人留言相当贴心就是这些，细小、细小再细小的解决方案，带来很大影响力。我认为那是个非常非常好的例子。
en:So you went from public space to private space.And another idea, again, that came from one of the nurses — which I love —was they took traditional, sort of, corporate white boards,then they put them on one wall of the patient&#39;s room,and they put this sticker there.So that what you could actually do was go into the roomand write messages to the person who was sick in that room,which was lovely.So, tiny, tiny, tiny solutions that made a huge amount of impact.I thought that was a really, really nice example.
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:这个不是什么新的想法，更像是，从身边已有的事物中寻找机会然后把他们变成解决方案。发明创造的历史便依据于此我得看着念，因为我要把名字念对Joan Ganz Cooney看到她女儿——星期六一早醒过来，在看测试卡等待着喜欢看的电视节目然后就诞生了“芝麻街”。Malcolm McLean正从一个国家搬去另一个国家他在想为什么这些人要用那么长时间才能把箱子搬上船。于是他发明了集装箱。George de Mestral ——这并不是爬在勃肯鞋上的虫——和他的狗一起散步，发现裤子和狗身上粘满了的苍耳一种带刺的小东西，于是就有了“维可牢”的发明（一种尼龙刺粘扣）
en:So this is not particularly a new idea,kind of, seeing opportunities in things that are around youand snapping and turning them into a solution.It&#39;s a history of invention based around this.I&#39;m going to read this because I want to get these names right.Joan Ganz Cooney saw her daughter — came down on a Saturday morning,saw her daughter watching the test card,waiting for programs to come on one morningand from that came Sesame Street.Malcolm McLean was moving from one country to anotherand was wondering why it took these guys so longto get the boxes onto the ship.And he invented the shipping container.George de Mestral — this is not bugs all over a Birkenstock —was walking his dog in a field and got covered in burrs,sort of little prickly things, and from that came Velcro.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:最后，英国人们，Percy Shaw ——这是个英国的大发明——有一天在他开车回家的路上看到了路边的猫的眼睛，由此便诞生了猫眼路标。这样的例子不胜枚举——用你的眼睛，以新鲜的眼光看待事物然后以它们为契机创造新的可能性。其次，听起来不要太禅，这是佛语：“身处边缘，观看事物周边往往会有不错的新发现。”肤浅的目光只会给出短浅的解决方案。因此，眼观六路、耳听八方就会发现更多新机遇。
en:And finally, for the Brits, Percy Shaw — this is a big British invention —saw the cat&#39;s eyes at the side of the road,when he was driving home one night and from that came the Catseye.So there&#39;s a whole series of just using your eyes,seeing things for the first time, seeing things afreshand using them as an opportunity to create new possibilities.Second one, without sounding overly Zen,and this is a quote from the Buddha:&quot;Finding yourself in the margins, looking to the edges of things,is often a really interesting place to start.&quot;Blinkered vision tends to produce, I think, blinkered solutions.So, looking wide, using your peripheral vision,is a really interesting place to look for opportunity.
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:这里还有另一个医学方面的例子。一位设备生产商问我们——我们曾经做过PalmPilot（轻巧随身的PDA产品）脑和Treo系列智能手机。在Ideo我们创造出了很多火爆的技术——他们看到了这一点，并且他们也需要一项关于医疗诊断的新技术。这是一台护士用的小设备，用于在医院里做脊髓检查，它需要护士输入一些数据。他们期待看到护士不停地按着这个铝制设备这个令人难以置信的高科技玩意儿当我们观看整套的操作流程时，稍后我将解释原因——很明显有一些人为的问题在里面，他们却没有注意到当你的脊椎插入了一根四英寸长的针头时——那个设备的数据输入便在这个过程中进行——用于疼痛管理。你非常恐慌——你吓坏了。因此，几乎每位护士都会握住病人的手来安慰他们。而这个动作——使两手操作的资料输入变成完全不可能
en:Again, another medical example here.We were asked by a device producer —we did the Palm Pilot and the Treo.We did a lot of sexy tech at Ideo —they&#39;d seen this and they wanted a sexy piece of technologyfor medical diagnostics.This was a device that a nurse useswhen they&#39;re doing a spinal procedure in hospital.They&#39;ll ask the nurses to input data.And they had this vision of the nurse, kind of, clicking awayon this aluminum deviceand it all being incredibly, sort of, gadget-lustish.When we actually went and watched this procedure taking place —and I&#39;ll explain this in a second —it became very obvious that there was a human dimension to thisthat they really weren&#39;t recognizing.When you&#39;re having a four-inch needle inserted into your spine —which was the procedure that this device&#39;s data was about;it was for pain management — you&#39;re shit scared; you&#39;re freaking out.And so the first thing that pretty much every nurse did,was hold the patient&#39;s hand to comfort them. Human gesture —which made the fabulous two-handed data input completely impossible.
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:基于此，我们的设计没有很多的热门技术，但是更加人性化和实用。就是这个无论如何它都不是Palm Pilot上面安装了一个滚轮，这样你就可以单手操作。再回到我们的主题——只是因为小小的手的问题促使了这台设备的设计方案。我觉得这是非常重要的。这些“基于周遭问题”的创意，我们常用这个说法“基于周遭问题”，感觉像是在审视我们的周边。当我一到这里，我就开始审视TED，以及这里发生的一切事情人们组合生活中各个问题的解决方案——以及那些平常我们在做的事情，那些虽是潜意识的，却具有很大潜力的——就是我们所苦苦追寻的创意。
en:So, the thing that we designed, much less sexybut much more human and practical, was this.So, it&#39;s not a Palm Pilot by any stretch of the imagination,but it has a thumb-scroll so you can do everything with one hand.So, again, going back to this — the idea that a tiny human gesturedictated the design of this product.And I think that&#39;s really, really important.So, again, this idea of workarounds.We use this phrase &quot;workarounds&quot; a lot,sort of, looking around us. I was actually looking around the TEDand just watching all of these kind of things happenwhile I&#39;ve been here.This idea of the way that people cobble together solutions in our life —and the things we kind of do in our environmentthat are somewhat subconscious but have huge potential —is something that we look at a lot.
时间： 8:31
zh-cn:我们最近出了一本书，也许有人已经看过了，名字叫《无意识的行为》。里面都是些人们下意识做出的事情，但是都蕴含着巨大的潜力和机遇。我们为什么总是沿街道上的线行走呢？这是一张日本地铁里的图片。人们总是习惯性的跟随某些东西，却不知为何为什么人们总把方形牛奶盒摆在广场方形护栏上呢？这是因为我们有点——不得不这么做。虽然不知原因，但的确要做。我们为什么总把茶包线缠在杯柄上呢？我们只是利用周遭世界来创造自己的设计解决方案。我们通常会告诉客户：“你应该注意这个，这个很重要，极为关键。”这是人们设计自己经验的过程。你可以从中学到很多。我们假定如果马路上出现了一根杆，人们就可以用，于是我们把购物车停在那里。它的存在为我所用。
en:We wrote a book recently, I think you might have received it,called &quot;Thoughtless Acts?&quot;It&#39;s been all about these kind of thoughtless things that people do,which have huge intention and huge opportunity.Why do we all follow the line in the street?This is a picture in a Japanese subway.People consciously follow things even though, why, we don&#39;t know.Why do we line up the square milk carton with the square fence?Because we kind of have to — we&#39;re just compelled to.We don&#39;t know why, but we do.Why do we wrap the teabag string around the cup handle?Again, we&#39;re sort of using the world around usto create our own design solutions.And we&#39;re always saying to our clients: &quot;You should look at this stuff.This stuff is really important. This stuff is really vital.&quot;This is people designing their own experiences.You can draw from this.We sort of assume that because there&#39;s a pole in the street,that it&#39;s okay to use it, so we park our shopping cart there.It&#39;s there for our use, on some level.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:我们利用周围环境以便解决繁杂的事情。我们援用别处得到的经验——从一项转移到另一项上。我很喜欢的一句话，是我妈妈告诉我的：“你姐姐跳进湖里，但你没必要跟着一起跳。”但我们都跟着跳进去了。我们总重复他人。有人试图解释原因：因为有人做了某事，即表示他们也可以做相同的事很多人有着类似的想法。我是说，塑料袋等同于停车计费器故障。人人都明白这些信号的含义。我们以这些人尽皆知的视觉方式交流，甚至没有意识到我们到底在做什么。第三部分是关于“不知”的，有意识地清空自己的常识我经常会谈论各类被疏忽的情形。就像拥有新人的想法，将你所有的知识、经验清空，重新审视一件事物。
en:So, again, we sort of co-opt our environmentto do all these different things.We co-opt other experiences —we take one item and transfer it to another.And this is my favorite one. My mother used to say to me,&quot;Just because your sister jumps in the lake doesn&#39;t mean you have to.&quot;But, of course, we all do. We all follow each other every day.So somebody assumesthat because somebody else has done something,that&#39;s permission for them to do the same thing.And there&#39;s almost this sort of semaphore around us all the time.I mean, shopping bag equals &quot;parking meter out of order.&quot;And we all, kind of, know how to read these signals now.We all talk to one another in this highly visual waywithout realizing what we&#39;re doing.Third section is this idea of not knowing,of consciously putting yourself backwards.I talk about unthinking situations all the time.Sort of having beginner&#39;s mind, scraping your mind cleanand looking at things afresh.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:我有一个在宜家做设计师的朋友。有一天，他的老板要求他为儿童设计一款贮存物品的家具。这是比利书柜——宜家里最畅销的一款产品。将它钉在一起。用鞋子来敲打组合，如果是我的话，因为很难组装。但依然很畅销，如何把这个复制给儿童呢？如果你认真观察儿童的举动，你会发现孩子们并不想把东西按顺序排放好。孩子们有着全然不同于成人的想法，他们站在物品上面，或者爬到下面，抑或是围绕在四围，因此，他们对于空间意识的理解以及对于贮存物品的方式有着自己的看法。因此，首先你要——这就是Graham，那个设计师——把自己放到孩子们的角度上。所以，他就钻到了桌子底下。结果如何呢？这是他所设计的贮存物品的工具。这是什么啊？我听到你们问了。不，我没听到。
en:A friend of mine was a designer at IKEA,and he was asked by his bossto help design a storage system for children.This is the Billy bookcase — it&#39;s IKEA&#39;s biggest selling product.Hammer it together. Hammer it together with a shoe, if you&#39;re me,because they&#39;re impossible to assemble.But big selling bookcase. How do we replicate this for children?The reality is when you actually watch children,children don&#39;t think about things like storage in linear terms.Children assume permission in a very different way.Children live on things. They live under things.They live around things,and so their spatial awareness relationship,and their thinking around storage is totally different.So the first thing you have to do — this is Graham, the designer —is, sort of, put yourself in their shoes. And so, here he issitting under the table.So, what came out of this?This is the storage system that he designed.So what is this? I hear you all ask. No, I don&#39;t.
时间：11:17
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:19
zh-cn:是这样的，我认为这是一个特别可爱的设计。这是一种全新的解决问题的方法。这是一个倾注了感情的解决方案——当然，泰迪熊很可能不会喜欢这个方法。
en:It&#39;s this, and I think this is a particularly lovely solution.So, you know, it&#39;s a totally different way of looking at the situation.It&#39;s a completely empathic solution —apart from the fact that teddy&#39;s probably not loving it.
时间：11:32
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:36
zh-cn:但，这不妨碍它推陈出新的亮点，而且，我觉得这很难得。把自己换个角度来思考，在TED集会上，我反复听到的一个思路就是如何把自己放到别人的角度上去思考问题，站在他们立场上去体会他们的感受并且借助这种体会去解决面临的问题我认为这才是最主要。最后一章：绿色手链。我们都有，跟这个相关。也就是说要从大处着眼，从小处着手。这也是我在这里反复听到的被强调的几个主题之一：我们从何做起？如何开展？如何起步？有一次，一家位于肯尼亚名叫ApproTEC的公司委托我们设计一款水泵。现在这家公司更名为KickStart了。
en:But a really nice way of re-framing the ordinary,and I think that&#39;s one of the things.And putting yourself in the position of the person,and I think that&#39;s one of the threads that I&#39;ve heard againfrom this conference is how do we put ourselvesin other peoples&#39; shoes and really feel what they feel?And then use that information to fuel solutions?And I think that&#39;s what this is very much about.Last section: green armband. We&#39;ve all got them.It&#39;s about this really.I mean, it&#39;s about picking battles big enough to matterbut small enough to win.Again, that&#39;s one of the themesthat I think has come through loud and clear in this conferenceis: Where do we start? How do we start? What do we do to start?So, again, we were asked to design a water pumpfor a company called ApproTEC, in Kenya.They&#39;re now called KickStart.
时间：12:25
zh-cn:作为设计师，我们想把这个产品做得非常漂亮，花费了很多时间去构思形状。其实这无关紧要。当你设身处地的站在那些人的角度去考虑时，你会发现，这件产品要能被折叠，并且可以放在自行车上，这个比外观重要多了。此外，生产的方式必须适合手工制造，同时原材料也需取自当地。这需要完全从一个使用者的角度来审视，我们不得不把自己转到他们的世界里这种看起来笨重的产品其实惊人的实用。它的操作就像爬楼梯——上下踏动来操作儿童可以使用，大人可以使用，人人都可以轻松操作它转变了这些人——另一个主题——将他们转变为企业家。
en:And, again, as designers,we wanted to make this thing incredibly beautifuland spend a lot of time thinking of the form.And that was completely irrelevant.When you put yourself in the position of these people,things like the fact that this has to be able to fold upand fit on a bicycle, become much more relevantthan the form of it. The way it&#39;s produced,it has to be produced with indigenous manufacturing methodsand indigenous materials.So it had to be looked at completely from the point of view of the user.We had to completely transfer ourselves over to their world.So what seems like a very clunky productis, in fact, incredibly useful.It&#39;s powered a bit like a Stairmaster — you pump up and down on it.Children can use it. Adults can use it. Everybody uses it.It&#39;s turning these guys — again, one of the themes —it&#39;s turning them into entrepreneurs.
时间：13:14
zh-cn:这些人可以非常容易的使用这个水泵。对于我们，也是受益匪浅，因为这个设计得了很多奖。最终，我们顺利的实现了客户的需求，满足了公司里不同个体的需求，让他们对我们所设计的产品非常满意，同时切合了使用者对这个产品的期望。这就是那个水泵，能把水抽到30英尺的高度。今早，我们把这些手链发到了每一个人手里以表示我们的心意。我们以座诸位的名义为KichStart做了捐赠，不是双关语，而是KichStart的另一项工程。因为这象征着，在我们赖以生存的事物上投资。这很重要，具有很深远的意义。因此，我们送出这个手链。“以小博大”希望你们能戴着它。我的演讲就是这些，谢谢大家。
en:These guys are using this very successfully.And for us, it&#39;s been greatbecause it&#39;s won loads of design awards.So we actually managed to reconcile the needs of the design company,the needs of the individuals in the company,to feel good about a product we were actually designing,and the needs of the individuals we were designing it for.There it is, pumping water from 30 feet.So as a final gesture we handed out these braceletsto all of you this morning.We&#39;ve made a donation on everybody&#39;s behalf hereto kick start, no pun intended, their next project.Because, again, I think, sort of, putting our money where our mouth is, here.We feel that this is an important gesture.So we&#39;ve handed out bracelets. Small is the new big.I hope you&#39;ll all wear them.So that&#39;s it. Thank you.
时间：13:59
zh-cn:掌声
en:(Applause)
