时间： 0:13
zh-cn:我是由人力飞行器成名的，但这只是一个开始后来我还做了很多其他的项目。年少时我对模型飞机很感兴趣，像是扑翼飞机啦，旋翼飞机啦，直升机，滑翔机，螺旋桨机，室内玩的室外玩的，什么都有。我当时只是觉得好玩，当然也好奇为什么大多数人对它们不感冒。后来我接受了海军里的飞行训练，大学后，我开始飞滑翔机，螺旋桨飞机，我把飞滑翔机当成是一个兴趣，但是也接触了一些专家，他们说服我和业界的其他人，滑翔机正是深入研究空气动力科学的入门之道。
en:I am known best for human-powered flight,but that was just one thing that got me goingin the sort of things that I&#39;m working in now.As a youngster, I was very interested in model airplanes,ornithopters, autogyros, helicopters, gliders, power planes,indoor models, outdoor models, everything,which I just thought was a lot of fun,and wondered why most other people didn&#39;t share my same enthusiasm with them.And then, navy pilot training, and, after college,I got into sailplane flying, power plane flying,and considered the sailplanes as a sort of hobby and fun,but got tangled up with some great professor types,who convinced me and everybody else in the fieldthat this was a good way to get into really deep science.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:当时我在做改良气候的工作，虽然后来在航空学拿到了博士。那时改良气候的计划刚刚起步，我还是研究生，搭便车在东海岸到处跑，到处听报告。人人都乐意和我接触，但是同行皆敌手，他们自己之间都没有交流。结果，我反而得到了独一无二的背景知识，还成立了一个公司，做气候改良的研究，比谁成果都多。但也有很多事我没时间去研究。那时，1971年AeroVironment成立了，从无到有，从小变大，摸索着做了很多有意思的项目。我们招了一些空气动力学家他们和我一样，并不想替航空航天工业做事情，不想参与大型的，做很多年的项目，所以我们做了一系列小项目，公司成长缓慢。
en:While this was all going on, I was in the field of weather modification,although getting a Ph.D. in aeronautics.The weather modification subject was getting started,and as a graduate student,I could go around to the various talks that were being given,on a hitchhiker ride to the East Coast,and so on. And everybody would talk to me,but all the professionals in the field hated each other,and they wouldn&#39;t communicate. And as a result,I got the absolutely unique background in that field,and started a company, which did more researchin weather modification than anybody,and there are a lot of things that I just can&#39;t go into.But then, 1971 started AeroVironment, with no employees —then one or two, three,and sort of fumbled along on trying to get interesting projects.We had AirDynamisis,who, like I, did not want to work for aerospace companieson some big, many year project,and so we did our small projects, and the company slowly grew.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:1976年令人兴奋的事情发生了，我突然开始对人力飞行器感兴趣。因为我帮朋友向银行借了十万美元，在银行做他的担保，因为他需要钱开公司。但是公司砸了，他也没钱还银行，因为我是担保人，这十万美元的债就是我的了。我发现给人力飞机有个Kramer奖，这个奖项已经设立有十七年了，积累了五万英镑，兑换下来，正好是差不多十万美元。
en:The thing that is exciting was, in 1976,I suddenly got interested in the human-powered airplanebecause I&#39;d made a made a loan to a friend of 100,000 dollars,or I guaranteed the money at the bank.He needed them — he needed the money for starting a company.The company did not succeed, and he couldn&#39;t pay the money back,and I was the guarantor of the note. So, I had a $100,000 debt,and I noticed that the Kramer prize for human-powered flight,which had then been around for — (Laughter) —17 years at the time, was 50,000 pounds,which, at the exchange rate, was just about 100,000 dollars.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:所以突然一下子人力飞行器变得可爱了。（笑声）最初我试的方法是，试着做飞机，就像是他们在英国试着做但是没成功的，我也放弃了。我知道是没有捷径的。后来我做了个度假旅行，学了一些鸟类飞行的知识，纯粹是感兴趣而已。你能观察一只鸟打圈飞翔。测量时间，估计倾斜角，马上就能知道它的速度，转弯半径什么的。我在去度假旅行的路上，开车的时候就玩这个。（笑声）同行的有我的三个儿子，都还年轻，帮着我，但是他们也觉得挺滑稽的。
en:So suddenly, I was interested in human-powered flight —(Laughter) —and did not — the way I approached it, first,thinking about ways to make the planes,was just like they&#39;d been doing in England, and not succeeding,and I gave it up. I figured, nah, there isn&#39;t any simple, easy way.But then, got off on a vacation trip, and was studying bird flight,just for the fun of it,and you can watch a bird soaring around in circles,and measure the time, and estimate the bank angle,and immediately, figure out its speed,and the turning radius, and so on,which I could do in the car, as we&#39;re driving along on a vacation trip —(Laughter) —with my three sons, young sons, helping me,but ridiculing the whole thing very much.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:但我开始思考鸟类是怎么飞的，那么飞机，滑翔机又应该怎么飞呢，别的飞机该怎么飞呢，很快地模仿戈萨默秃鹰的飞机就设计出来了，这是多么合逻辑，我们早该想到了。但我们没有（想到模仿鸟）。其实只要保持飞机很轻，整个飞机是70磅，再把飞机做大，像是滑翔机翼的样子，但是是滑翔机翼的三倍宽，三倍长，你只需要三分之一的速度就能飞，三分之一的动力，一个好的自行车运动员就能踩出这样的动力。这样就成功了。我们一年后拿了那个奖，
en:But that began thinking about how birds went around,and then how airplanes would, how hang gliders would fly,and then other planes,and the idea of the Gossamer-Condor-type airplane quickly emerged,was so logical, one should have thought of it in the first place,but one didn&#39;t. And it was just, keep the weight down —70 pounds was all it weighed — but let the size swell up, like a hang glider,but three times the span, three times the cord.You&#39;re down to a third of the speed, a third of the power,and a good bicyclist can put out that power, and that worked,and we won the prize a year later.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:那么多的试飞，那么多的实验，那么多的努力都没成，只有一个成了，那个飞机变得越来越完美。我们请了一个很好的飞行员，布莱恩 亚伦来驾驶，最后成功了，但不幸的是，做这个项目花了六万五千美元。
en:We didn&#39;t — a lot of flying, a lot of experiments, a lot of things that didn&#39;t work,and ones that did work, and the plane kept getting a little better, a little better.Got a good pilot, Brian Allen, to operate it,and finally, succeeded. But unfortunately,about 65,000 dollars was spent on the project.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:只剩了三万还债，幸运的是，Henry Kramer， 那个奖的设立者，又设了一个奖 （之前的是飞一英里的奖），征人飞越英吉利海峡，二十一英里宽，他以为要等到另一个十八年后才会有人得这个奖。我们意识到，只要对我们的秃鹰号稍加改进，飞行需要的动力就会变小一点，如果动力需求能变小一点点，飞行员能坚持的时间就长得多。结果布莱恩 亚伦真的创造了奇迹，把秃鹰号飞越了英吉利海峡，我们又赢了二十万，十万英镑，二十万美元。这样所有的成本都回来了，债也还清了，皆大欢喜。后来我发现原来把飞机捐给博物馆，不光能还债还有余。因为接下来的五六年里，我都只用交三分之一的所得税。所以这个项目非常值。（笑声）
en:And there was only about 30 to help retire the debt.But fortunately, Henry Kramer, who put up the prize for —that was a one-mile flight — put up a new prizefor flying the English Channel, 21 miles.And he thought it would take another 18 years for somebody to win that.We realized that if you just cleaned up our Gossamer Condor a little bit,the power to fly would be decreased a little bit,and if you decrease the power required a little,the pilot can fly a much longer period of time.And Brian Allen was able, in a miraculous flight,to get the Gossamer Albatross across the English Channel,and we won the 100,000-pound, 200,000-dollar prize for that.And when all expenses were paid, the debt was handled, and everything was fine.It turned out that giving the planes to the museumwas worth much more than the debt,so for five years, six years, I only had to pay one third income tax.So, there were good economic reasons for the project, but —(Laughter) —
时间： 7:05
zh-cn:当然了，做这个计划是奔钱去的，我们之后再也没有做过和人力飞行器相关的东西。（笑声）没奖金了么。（笑声）但这个计划也启发了我，马上我们就开始做太阳能飞机。因为我们意识到对整个国家，整个世界，太阳能会变得很重要。我们不希望政府进一步缩减本来稀薄的基金，这样的情况正在发生，我们认为太阳能飞机其实不是真有用，但是如果我们做成了，公众对太阳能会有更高的认同，我们就能帮助这个领域（发展下去）。这个计划进行了下去，也成功了。我们接下来又在航空学方面做了其他的课题，机械方面的，地面设施等等。
en:that&#39;s not, well, the project was done entirely for economic reasons,and we have not been involved in any human-powered flight since then —(Laughter) —because the prizes are all over.(Laughter)But that sure started me thinking about various things,and immediately, we began making a solar-powered planebecause we felt solar power was going to be so importantfor the country and the world,we didn&#39;t want the small funding in the government to be decreased,which is what the government was trying to do with it.And we thought a solar-powered plane wouldn&#39;t really make sense,but you could do it and it would get a lot of publicity for solar powerand maybe help that field.And that project continued, did succeed,and we then got into other projects in aviationand mechanical things and ground devices.
时间： 8:13
zh-cn:在进行这些研究时，1982年，我得了一个林伯赫奖——是个每年都有的奖——我得准备一篇演讲，包括多年来所有我的千奇百怪的点子和我的兴趣所在。这是头一次我仔细想清楚我在追求什么，什么对我是重要的。令我惊讶的是，我发现环境问题是非常重要的。查理 林伯赫 后半生都在致力于环境事业。准备这篇演讲对我很有帮助。我想象如果我是星际旅行家，每五千年来地球旅行一次，头几千次的访问，我看到的是同样的东西，地球没有什么变化。
en:But while this was going on,in 1982, I got a prize from the Lindbergh Foundation —their annual prize —and I had to prepare a paper on it,which collected all my varied thoughtsand varied interests over the years.This was the one chance that I had to focus on what I, really, was after,and what was important. And to my surprise,I realized the importance of environmental issues,which Charles Lindbergh devoted the last third of his life to,and preparing that paper did me a lot of good.I thought back about if I was a space traveler,and came and visited Earth every 5,000 years.And for a few thousand visits, I would see the same thing every time,the little differences in the Earth.
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:但是这最后一次访问，如果是现在，突然间环境改变了很多，到处都是人，这简直是不可思议，多少事情变化了。我想，最大的变化之一是两百年前，我们开始掘煤燃煤，导致了很多污染，另外一百年前，我们开始开采石油，也导致了很多污染，石油开采，或者说石油生产，将在十年之后达到顶峰，之后只能走下坡，我不知道将来我们要怎么交通。
en:But this last time, just coming round, right now,suddenly, there&#39;d be huge changes in the environment,in the concentration of people,and it was just unbelievable, the amount of — all the change in it.I wanted to — well, one of the biggest changes is, 200 years ago,we began using coal from underground, which has a lot of pollution,and 100 years ago, began getting gasoline from underground,with a lot of pollution. And gasoline consumption, or production,will reach its limit in about ten years, and then go down,and we wonder what&#39;s going to happen with transportation.
时间：10:08
zh-cn:我想放一个幻灯片——这张，是最最重要的一张幻灯，是你们有生以来最重要的。（笑声）（掌声）因为这张幻灯展示了自然和人类的关系，从1850年到2050年。在2000年，你能看到，这是有多少空中和陆地上的脊椎动物。人类，麝鼠，长颈鹿，鸟类，等等——红线持续上升，这是人类，牲畜和家养动物。绿线持续下降，这是野生动物。人类，牲畜和宠物现在占了全世界空中和陆地上的脊椎动物的百分之九十八，未来还不知道会怎么样，但是这个百分比是不会下降的。一万年前，人类，牲畜和宠物，还不到百分之零点一，在这张图上根本看不见。现在已经是百分之九十八了，这一现象，我认为，说明了人类主宰了地球。
en:I wanted to show the slide —this slide, I think, is the most important one any of you will see, ever, because —(Laughter)(Applause) —it shows nature versus humans, and goes from 1850 to 2050.And so, the year 2000, you see there.And this is the weight of all air and land vertebrates.Humans and muskrats and giraffes and birds and so on, are —the red line goes up. That&#39;s the humans and livestock and pets portion.The green line goes down. That&#39;s the wild nature portion.Humans, livestock and pets are, now, 98 percent of the total world&#39;s massof vertebrates on land and air.And you don&#39;t know what the future will hold,but it&#39;s not going to get a lower percentage.Ten thousand years ago, the humans and livestock and petswere not even one tenth of one percentand wouldn&#39;t even have been visible on such a curve.Now they are 98 percent, and it, I think, shows human domination of the Earth.
时间：11:33
zh-cn:每年夏天我都会给一些天才高中生演讲，我会给他们出题，在他们问了我问题，我讲了课之后，我会给他们出道题：世界上有多少人口?当你到了你父母现在的年纪，世界上又会有多少人？这是我从来没有——他们也从没想过的问题。但是现在他们得好好想想。接下来，什么时候世界人口会到达平衡，持续不变，一直到2050年，2100年，或是2150年？他们分成小组，互相辩论，我两小时后回来，大多数人认为二十亿人口（是平衡点）。但是他们不知道怎么控制人口在二十亿。我也不知道。但是他们是对的，这是个严重问题。
en:I give a talk to some remarkable high school students each summer,and ask them, after they&#39;ve asked me questions,and I give them a talk and so on. Then I ask them questions.What&#39;s the population of the Earth?What&#39;s the population of the Earth going to bewhen you&#39;re the age of your parents?Which I&#39;d never, really — they had never, really, thought aboutbut, now, they think about it.And then, what population of the Earth would be an equilibriumthat could continue on, and be for 2050, 2100, 2150?And they form little groups, all fighting with each other,and when I leave, two hours later,most of them are saying about 2 billion people,and they don&#39;t have any clue about how to get down to 2 billion,nor do I, but I think they&#39;re right and this is a serious problem.
时间：12:32
zh-cn:瑞秋 卡森很久前就考虑过这个问题，写了“寂静的春天”一书。德国赫曼 施齐尔的“太阳的宣言”一书宣称全世界所有国家需要的能源，都能从太阳能和水能等等能源中获得。你不需要开采别的化学物质，我们还能更有效率的得到能源。让我们看看下一张幻灯。这张是个总结：“亿万年来，机遇在这个独一无二的星球上，薄薄地涂了一层生命，复杂而充满机遇，伟大而精巧易碎。
en:Rachel Carson was thinking of these, and came out with &quot;Silent Spring,&quot; way back.&quot;Solar Manifesto&quot; by Hermann Scheer, in Germany,claims all energy on Earth can be derived, for every country,from solar energy and water, and so on.You don&#39;t need to dig down for these chemicals,and we can do things much more efficiently.Let&#39;s have the next slide.So this just summarizes it. &quot;Over billions of years,on a unique sphere, chance has painted a thin covering of life —complex and probable, wonderful and fragile.
时间：13:14
zh-cn:突然间，我们人类，刚刚降临，不愿臣服于自然的控制和平衡之下，疯狂扩张着人口，科技和智慧，拥有了可怕的权力。我们，现在，执掌了画笔。”我们掌权了，多么可怕。每二十年二十五年我都试着画画，这是最近的一张。（笑声）这个是地球，右边展示了不同的时期，有三叶虫，恐龙什么的，三角形上，开始有人类社会，有电视有交通堵塞等等。我不知道接下来会是什么，所以我用了机器蟑螂和自然界的蟑螂，来表示未来，就当时敲一个警钟。这幅画完成两周后，我们公司，接到了第一个项目，第一个合同，是需要机器蟑螂的，把我吓了一跳。
en:Suddenly, we humans, a recently arrived species,no longer subject to the checks and balances inherent in nature,have grown in population, technology and intelligenceto a position of terrible power. We, now, wield the paintbrush.&quot;We&#39;re in charge. It&#39;s frightening.And I do a painting every 20 or 25 years. This is the last one.(Laughter)And [it] shows the Earth in a time flag: on the right,in trilobites and dinosaurs and so on;and over the triangle, we now get to civilization and TVand traffic jams and so on.I have no idea of what comes next,so I just used robotic and natural cockroaches as the future,as a little warning.And two weeks after this drawing was done,we actually had our first project contract, at AeroVironment,on robotic cockroaches, which was very frightening to me.
时间：14:15
zh-cn:（笑声）（纸张沙沙声）
en:(Laughter)(Paper rustling)
时间：14:20
zh-cn:好的，这是我们今天所有的幻灯——时间流逝，我们不再做环境保护的课题了，我们开始更多聚焦在真正严重的问题上，未来的能源问题。我们为一些公司做产品，还给通用公司研发了电瓶车。叫做EV1，我们还促使空气资源委员会制定了规则促使电瓶车的应用，可惜它们没能持久。我们做了很多项目，小型无人驾驶飞机等等。我有一个“太阳神号”——我们这里有录像——
en:Well, that&#39;ll be all the slides.As time went on, we stopped our environmental programs.We focused more on the really serious energy problemsof the future, and we produced products for the company.And we developed the impact car that General Motors made,the EV1, out of —and got the Air Resources Board to have the regulationsthat stimulated the electric cars, but they&#39;ve since come apart.And we&#39;ve done a lot of things, small drone airplanes and so on.I have a Helios. We have the first video.
时间：15:15
zh-cn:解说员：装备了247英尺宽的翅膀，这飞机比波音747还大。
en:(Video) Narrator: With a wingspan of 247 feet, this makes her larger than a Boeing 747.
时间：15:20
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：15:29
zh-cn:它的设计师对细节和设计的注重，使太阳神号的结构具有足够的柔韧性和强度，来应付大气中的涡流。这使得它很轻松地在气流中飞翔，就像它在浪尖上滑行一样。
en:Her designers&#39; attention to detail and her constructiongives Helios&#39; structure the flexibility and strengthto deal with the turbulence encountered in the atmosphere.This enables her to easily ride through the air currentsas if she&#39;s sliding along on the ocean waves.
时间：15:44
zh-cn:保罗 麦克柯罗迪：这对翅膀能在上方碰到一起也不会折断，至少我们相信。
en:Paul MacCready: The wings could touch together on top and not break. We think.
时间：15:49
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：15:52
zh-cn:解说员：太阳神号现在开始把反面转向太阳，以便从太阳能板获得最大限度的能源。
en:Narrator: And Helios now begins the process of turning her back to the sun,to maximize the power from her solar array.
时间：15:58
zh-cn:（音乐）当天空变暗，气温降低到零下100度华氏之下，太阳神号顺利通过了这段最具恶劣环境挑战的旅程除了使用特别设计的数据采集系统来记录，加上特别设计的感应器。它能临近96863英尺，即高雷达能达到的最高海拔，下午四点十二分，太阳神号已经在地球大气层的百分之九十八的高度了。这比前世界纪录，SR-71黑鸟号达到的最高海拔，还高了10000英尺。
en:(Music)As the sky gets darker, and the outside air temperatures dropbelow minus 100 degrees Fahrenheit,the most environmentally hostile segment of Helios&#39;s journeyhas gone by without notice,except for being recorded by specially designed data acquisition systemsand their associated sensors.Approaching a peak radar altitude of 96,863 feet,at 4:12 p.m., Helios is standing on top of 98 percent of the Earth&#39;s atmosphere.This is more than 10,000 feet higherthan the previous world&#39;s altitude record held by the SR-71 Blackbird.
时间：16:43
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：16:52
zh-cn:保罗 麦克柯罗迪：这个飞机有很多用途，我们做它是为了通讯，它能飞得很慢，还能停留在65000英尺的高空，最终我们能够让它日复一日地停在高空，长达六个月，就像同步卫星一样，但是只与地球保持十英里的高度。让我们看下一段录像，展示了另一个极端。
en:PM: That plane has many purposes, but it&#39;s aimed for communications,and it can fly so slowly that it&#39;ll just stay up at 65,000 feet.Eventually, it will be able to have to stay up day, night, day, night,for six months at a time, acting like the synchronous satellite,but only ten miles above the Earth.Let&#39;s have the next video. This shows the other end of the spectrum.
时间：17:16
zh-cn:解说员：小小的一架飞机，AV指针，作为监视器，事实上，是一副巡逻眼镜，让人可以从车里控制它，用这种小型化飞行器去了解前方情况。它方便携带，简单易装，容易使用。它是电池驱动的，零噪音，不起眼。它能把高清电影或者照片发送回操纵器，加上一个GPS，它能自动导航，它也很结实，能够自己降落也不会坏。
en:(Video) Narrator: A tiny airplane, the AV Pointer serves for surveillance.In effect a pair of roving eyeglasses,a cutting-edge example of where miniaturization can leadif the operator is remote from the vehicle.It is convenient to carry, assemble, and launch by hand.Battery-powered, it is silent and rarely noticed.It sends high-resolution video pictures back to the operator.With on-board GPS, it can navigate autonomously,and it is rugged enough to self-land without damage.
时间：17:45
zh-cn:保罗 麦克柯罗迪：好的，现在看下一个——
en:PM: Okay, and let&#39;s have the next.
时间：17:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:51
zh-cn:那个飞机现在已经在军队里广泛使用了，用在军事行动中。让我们看下一段影片。
en:That plane is widely used by the military, now, in all their operations.Let&#39;s have the next video.
时间：18:00
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Video) (Music)
时间：18:14
zh-cn:爱兰 艾达：他拿到了，他拿到了，就在他头顶上。
en:Alan Alda: He&#39;s got it, he&#39;s got it, he&#39;s got it on his head.
时间：18:16
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：18:18
zh-cn:我们的访问最后要采访泰勒， 保罗 麦克柯罗迪的飞行马戏主人的儿子，他和他的两个兄弟在二十五年前参与制造了戈萨默秃鹰。
en:We&#39;re going to end our visit with Paul MacCready&#39;s flying circusby meeting his son, Tyler, who, with his two brothers,helped build the Gossamer Condor, 25 years ago.
时间：18:28
zh-cn:泰勒 麦克柯罗迪：你能追着这个飞机好几个小时。
en:Tyler MacCready: You can chase it, like this, for hours.
时间：18:30
zh-cn:爱兰 艾达：当他们做他们父亲的项目烦了，他们就发明自己的特殊飞行器。
en:AA: When they got bored with their father&#39;s project,they invented an extraordinary little plane of their own.
时间：18:35
zh-cn:泰勒 麦克柯罗迪：我能控制它，给一点上升气流这里那里的。
en:TM: And I can control it by putting the lift on one side of the wing, or on the other.
时间：18:40
zh-cn:爱兰 艾达：他们叫这个他们的跟屁虫滑翔器。
en:AA: They called it their Walkalong Glider.
时间：18:42
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：18:44
zh-cn:我从没见过这样的东西。你发明这个的时候多大？
en:I&#39;ve never seen anything like that.How old were you when you invented that?
时间：18:47
zh-cn:泰勒 麦克柯罗迪：十岁十一岁——（爱兰 艾达：天哪。）
en:TM: Oh, 10, 11. (AA: Oh my God.)
时间：18:50
zh-cn:泰勒 麦克柯罗迪：十二岁吧，差不多那么大。（爱兰 艾达：真酷毙了。）
en:TM: 12, something like that. (AA: That&#39;s amazing.)
时间：18:52
zh-cn:保罗 麦克柯罗迪：今天泰勒也来了，向大家展示跟屁虫。
en:PM: And Tyler&#39;s here to show you the Walkalong.
时间：18:55
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：19:00
zh-cn:泰勒 麦克柯罗迪：好吧，你们的礼物袋都有几个，首先——这批产品飞起来有点容易下沉所以我建议你们在飞之前把它的翅膀向上稍稍扳一点，让我展示一下这个是怎么飞的，它是靠你身体的气流飞，就像海鸥在悬崖上飞一样。风向上它也向上，所以当你走路时，穿过空气，气流在你身体边流动，有些会到你上方去。你只需要确保它停在气流的上方。起飞是最难的，你必须把它举过头顶，然后开始向前走，放开手，你就能控制它了。
en:TM: All right. You all got a couple of these in your gift bags,and one of the first things,the production version seemed to dive a little bit,and so I would just suggest you bend the wing tips up a little bitbefore you try flying it.I&#39;ll give you a demonstration of how it works.The idea is that it soars on the lift over your body, like a seagull soaring on a cliff.As the wind comes up, it has to go over the cliff, soas you walk through the air, it goes around your body, some has to go over you.And so you just keep the glider positioned in that up current.The launch is the difficult part: you&#39;ve got to hold it high up, over your head,and you start walking forward, and just let go of it, and you can control it like that.
时间：19:42
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间：19:44
zh-cn:接下来，就像影片里说的，你能让它左转右转，只要在一个翅膀加一点上升力就好了，所以我可以这样——噢，这样就是右转了。
en:And then also, like it said in the video,you can turn it left or rightjust by putting the lift under one wing or another.So I can do it — oops, that was going to be a right turn.
时间：19:56
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：19:57
zh-cn:好了，这个是左转这里，噢（掌声）就这样——（掌声）这样就行了。所以你能控制它，去哪里都行，几个小时都很好玩，这个已经断货了。所以你现在有真正的绝版了。
en:Okay, this one will be a left turn.Here, but —(Applause) —anyway.(Applause)And that&#39;s it, so you can just control it, wherever you want,and it&#39;s just hours of fun. And these are no longer in production,so you have real collector&#39;s items.
时间：20:18
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：20:20
zh-cn:这里，我们还想给你看这个——如果我们在上面装个摄像头，对了，只是一个摄像头——一个摄影监视器。
en:And this, we just wanted to show you —if we can get the video running on this, yeah —just an example of a little video surveillance.
时间：20:33
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：20:35
zh-cn:这个在昨晚的舞会上飞过，于是——（笑声）你能看到它只是到处飞，你能偷看谁都行。
en:This was flying around in the party last night, and —(Laughter) —you can see how it just can fly around,and you can spy on anybody you want.
时间：20:46
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：20:52
zh-cn:就是这样，我想带一个真飞机来的，但是我不想撞上谁，所以我选了这个，温柔点的。这只是，嗯，几个小发明。(掌声)好了.
en:And that&#39;s it. I was going to bring an airplane,but I was worried about hitting people in here,so I thought this would be a little bit more gentle.And that&#39;s it, yeah, just a few inventions.(Applause)All right.
