时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这是一个以环境，生态，或者信息技术为主导的时代—呃，一个关于很多不同事物的年代但有一件事情是肯定的：这是一个变化的时代。现在正在发生的改变比地球人类生活历史上发生过的都要多。大家都好像知道，但要表达出来让人真正理解却又很难。我一直试着整理出一些东西来开个好头。我试着用这个来表现，虽然这里看不出颜色。我关注的是一个人所处的一个50年长的时间小泡沫。人一般感兴趣的是过去的一代，未来的一代；你的父母，你的孩子，在接下来几十年里你可以改变的东西，这就是你所经历的一个50年时间泡沫。在那50年里，如果你看一下这条人口曲线，你可以发现地球的人口数已经增加了不止一倍，自从我出生以来，我们已经是原来的3.5倍了。当你有一个初生儿，到孩子高中毕业的时候增加的人口数要比我出生时的总人口还要多—这是前所未有的，这是巨大的数量。我们要问的是它将何去何从。这是关于人类的部分。
en:You hear that this is the era of environment — or biology, or information technology ...Well, it&#39;s the era of a lot of different thingsthat we&#39;re in right now. But one thing for sure:it&#39;s the era of change. There&#39;s more change going onthan ever has occurred in the history of human life on earth.And you all sort of know it, but it&#39;s hard to get itso that you really understand it.And I&#39;ve tried to put together something that&#39;s a good start for this.I&#39;ve tried to show in this — though the color doesn&#39;t come out —that what I&#39;m concerned with is the little 50-year time bubblethat you are in. You tend to be interested in a generation past,a generation future — your parents, your kids, things you can changeover the next few decades — and this 50-year time bubbleyou kind of move along in. And in that 50 years,if you look at the population curve, you find the population of humanson the earth more than doubles and we&#39;re up three-and-a-half timessince I was born. When you have a new baby,by the time that kid gets out of high schoolmore people will be added than existed on earth when I was born.This is unprecedented, and it&#39;s big.Where it goes in the future is questioned. So that&#39;s the human part.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:现在来看看人类和动物们的关系：请看图的左边。我称之为人类部分—人类和他们的牲畜和宠物—相对于自然部分—所有其他的野生动物而且只有—这些是脊椎动物和所有的鸟类，等等。陆上的和空中的，不包括水生的。它是如何平衡的呢？呃，当然一万年前，文明之初，人类部分不足千分之一。让我们看看现在。你沿着这条曲线可以看到中间的白点—这是你的50年时间泡沫。人，牲畜和宠物现在是整个地球群体的百分之九十七而整个野生自然是百分之三。我们赢了。我们的下一代根本不要去担心这场比赛—它已经结束了。而过去25年里最大的问题来了：我们从百分之二十五上升到了百分之九十七。这张图让我们清醒地认识到我们，人类，要对地球的生命负责，我们像希腊神话中反复无常的众神有点像在拿地球的生命开玩笑，而没有倾注过多的智慧。
en:Now, the human part related to animals: look at the left side of that.What I call the human portion — humans and their livestock and pets —versus the natural portion — all the other wild animals and just —these are vertebrates and all the birds, etc.,in the land and air, not in the water. How does it balance?Certainly, 10,000 years ago, the civilization&#39;s beginning,the human portion was less than one tenth of one percent. Let&#39;s look at it now.You follow this curve and you see the whiter spot in the middle —that&#39;s your 50-year time bubble. Humans, livestock and petsare now 97 percent of that integrated total mass on earthand all wild nature is three percent. We have won. The next generationdoesn&#39;t even have to worry about this game — it is over.And the biggest problem came in the last 25 years:it went from 25 percent up to that 97 percent.And this really is a sobering picture upon realizing that we, humans,are in charge of life on earth; we&#39;re like the capricious Godsof old Greek myths, kind of playing with life —and not a great deal of wisdom injected into it.
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:现在，这第三条曲线是信息技术。这里标绘了摩尔定律，它和信息的密度有关它也很好地展示了关于信息技术的其他事物：计算机，计算机应用，互联网，等。重要的是曲线在上端笔直上升它没有真正的界限。而把这些对照过来地球的尺寸标线也是一样的走向（笑声）为了让它很明白，我把四张图放在一张里—不用去看里面具体的小字第一张是人类和自然的比较。我们已经赢了，没有更多可以索取。人类人口。所以如果你寻求进入增长型行业的话，保护自然生物—前景可不太好。人类人口正在增长；它还将持续很长一段时间。产科医生，殡仪业者，还有农业，房产业等的业务看好—它们都和人的身体打交道—需要被喂养，运输，和庇护等等。而信息技术，它连接我们的大脑，不受限制—是一个可以参与的绝佳领域。你寻找增长机会的话—它正一飞冲天。而地球大小本身的限制，从某种程度上使那些扩大地球兼容能力的行业让人望而却步。
en:Now, the third curve is information technology.This is Moore&#39;s Law plotted here, which relates to densityof information, but it has been pretty good for showinga lot of other things about information technology —computers, their use, Internet, etc. And what&#39;s importantis it just goes straight up through the top of the curve,and has no real limits to it. Now try and contrast these.This is the size of the earth going through that same —(Laughter)— frame. And to make it really clear, I&#39;ve put all four on one graph.There&#39;s no need to see the little detailed words on it.That first one is humans-versus-nature;we&#39;ve won, there&#39;s no more gain. Human population.And so if you&#39;re looking for growth industries to get into,that&#39;s not a good one — protecting natural creatures. Human populationis going up; it&#39;s going to continue for quite a while.Good business in obstetricians, morticians, and farming, housing, etc. —they all deal with human bodies, which require being fed,transported, housed and so on. And the information technology,which connects to our brains, has no limit — now, that is a wonderfulfield to be in. You&#39;re looking for growth opportunity?It&#39;s just going up through the roof.And then, the size of the Earth. Somehow making these all compatiblewith the Earth looks like a pretty bad industry to be involved with.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:所以，这就是所有这些的现状。我发现，很多原因让我不理解，我确实有个目标。目标就是当我的孩子到了我这个年纪世界变得可爱和可持续的。而且我觉得那是-换句话说，是我们的下一代。我觉得这大概是我们大家共有的目标。我觉得它是一个没什么希望的目标。技术上说它是可实现的，经济上它是可实现的，政治上说它是—它代表了某种习惯，人们的惯例，它是不可能的。过去的惯例和所有的惰性看来和未来毫不相关，除了他们是真实存在的而我们必须处理他们。我花了15%的时间试图拯救世界，其他的85%做些平常的事... ...任何我们致力于的事情。在那15%中，主要关注的是人类的思维-思考的技巧，试着把孩子从学校的束缚中解放出来学校只是把信息和教条灌输给他们。让他们能真正地思考，问尖锐的问题，辩论严肃的话题，不照本宣科。广泛地或创造性地思考。他们可以这样。我们的学校系统有很多缺陷，不鼓励你做对生活来说重要的事情或者做延续文明的事情。他们鼓励很多学习和吸收事物。我们今天由于时间关系就无法详说了—它是一个广泛的主题。可以确定的一件事是，未来有一个最根本的特征—必要的，但不是充分方面—就是用更少做更多。我们必须做事情更有效率，使用更少的能源，更少的材料。你们的曾曾祖父靠肌肉力量生存而我们都认为我们的生活方式主要是靠着某种巨大的力量支持。依靠我们所有的这些神奇的技术我们可以做更有效的事情：生态保护，循环利用等。
en:So, that&#39;s the stage out of all this. I find,for reasons I don&#39;t understand, I really do have a goal.And the goal is that the world be desirable and sustainablewhen my kids reach my age — and I think that&#39;s — in other words,the next generation. I think that&#39;s a goal that we probably all share.I think it&#39;s a hopeless goal. Technologically, it&#39;s achievable;economically, it&#39;s achievable; politically,it means sort of the habits, institutions of people — it&#39;s impossible.The institutions of the past with all their inertiaare just irrelevant for the future, except they&#39;re thereand we have to deal with them. I spend about 15 percent of my timetrying to save the world, the other 85 percent, the usual —and whatever else we devote ourselves to.And in that 15 percent, the main focus is on human mind, thinking skills,somehow trying to unleash kids from the straightjacket of school,which is putting information and dogma into them,get them so they really think, ask tough questions, argueabout serious subjects, don&#39;t believe everything that&#39;s in the book,think broadly or creative. They can be.Our school systems are very flawed and do not reward youfor the things that are important in lifeor for the survival of civilization; they reward youfor a lot of learning and sopping up stuff.We can&#39;t go into that today because there isn&#39;t time —it&#39;s a broad subject. One thing for sure, in the futurethere is an essential feature — necessary, but not sufficient —which is doing more with less. We&#39;ve got to be doing thingswith more efficiency using less energy, less material.Your great-great grandparents got by on muscle power,and yet we all think there&#39;s this huge power that&#39;s essentialfor our lifestyle. And with all the wonderful technology we havewe can do things that are much more efficient: conserve, recycle, etc.
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:让我快速地过一遍我们完成的事情。人体动力飞机—1976，77年的“游丝秃鹫”算是开始了我在这个方向的工作，它赢得了飞行历史上的Kremer奖，第二个叫“信天翁”。接着我们开始制作各种各样古怪的飞机和作品。这是仿制了一个大型的无尾翼龙。让它直线飞行就像射一支羽毛端朝前的箭。难度很大。好家伙！其间让我对自然产生了很大的尊敬。这是全尺寸的原始作品。我们有在陆上，空中和水上制作各种交通工具，通常上面带有电子或者电力动能系统。我发现他们都是一样的。我不管是陆上，空中还是水上的。我在这里将关注的是空中的。这是一架太阳能飞机—运载一人从法国到英国飞行了165英里标志着太阳能在我们的未来将担当重要角色。然后我们为通用公司制作了太阳能汽车—“太阳赛跑者”，它赢得了在澳大利亚的比赛。我们有很多人在思考电动车，我们可以用它来干嘛。几年后，当我们建议通用时机已经成熟，我们可以做一个叫“影响力”的东西时，他们提供了赞助，而这是我们和他们项目开发的“影响力”。这是示范版。他们尽了巨大的努力把它变成商业产品。
en:Let me just rush very quickly through things that we&#39;ve done.Human-powered airplane — Gossamer Condor sort of started mein this direction in 1976 and 77,winning the Kremer prize in aviation history,followed by the Albatross. And we beganmaking various odd planes and creatures.Here&#39;s a giant flying replica of a pterosaur that has no tail.Trying to have it fly straight is like trying to shoot an arrowwith the feathered end forward. It was a tough job,and boy it made me have a lot of respect for nature.This was the full size of the original creature.We did things on land, in the air, on water —vehicles of all different kinds, usually with some electronicsor electric power systems in them. I find they&#39;re all the same,whether its land, air or water.I&#39;ll be focusing on the air here. This is a solar-powered airplane —165 miles carrying a person from France to Englandas a symbol that solar power is going to be an important partof our future. Then we did the solar car for General Motors —the Sunracer — that won the race in Australia.We got a lot of people thinking about electric cars,what you could do with them. A few years later, when we suggested to GM thatnow is the time and we could do a thing called the Impact,they sponsored it, and here&#39;s the Impact that we developed with themon their programs. This is the demonstrator. And they put huge effortinto turning it into a commercial product.
时间： 7:47
zh-cn:开场白结束，让我们来看第一段两分钟的视频录像它展示了一架小型监察飞机变成一架巨型机。一架小飞机，“AV 指针”是起监察作用的：实际上是一对粗纱镜片。一个尖端的例子显示了当操作员远程控制时小型化设备能起到先导的作用。它便于携带，装配和手工发动。它使用电池，很安静，几乎难以察觉。它将高分辨率的视频图片传送回操作员。利用随身携带的GPS，它可以自动驾驶，它足够粗旷，可以无损坏自动着陆。现代的滑翔机超级的高效。有些可以每下降一英尺向前平滑60英尺。他们仅通过从大气中可以吸取的能量来产生动能—一个被太阳能激起的自然大气。人类和飞鸟已经发现大自然在提供持续能力方面是非常慷慨的。滑翔机飞行了超过1，000英里，海拔记录超过50，000英尺。（音乐）制作“太阳挑战者”标志着硒电池能产生真正的能量将成为世界能源未来的一部分。1981年，它从巴黎到英国飞行了163英里单单靠阳光动能，为“探路者”打下了一个基础。（音乐）所有这些交通工具中包含的信息是：想法和技术可以用来生产出事半功倍的非凡收益；这些收益可以帮助我们达到技术和自然的理想平衡。当我们加速向一个充满挑战的未来前进的时，风险是高的。Buckminster Fuller清楚地说过：在地球这架太空船上没有乘客，只有船员。我们，就是船员，可以而且必须以更少，少得多做到更多。
en:With that preamble, let&#39;s show the first two-minute videotape,which shows a little airplane for surveillanceand moving to a giant airplane.Narrator: A tiny airplane, the AV Pointer serves for surveillance —in effect, a pair of roving eyeglasses. A cutting-edge exampleof where miniaturization can lead if the operator is remotefrom the vehicle. It is convenient to carry, assembleand launch by hand. Battery-powered, it is silent and rarely noticed.It sends high-resolution video pictures back to the operator.With onboard GPS, it can navigate autonomously,and it is rugged enough to self-land without damage.The modern sailplane is superbly efficient.Some can glide as flat as 60 feet forward for every foot of descent.They are powered only by the energythey can extract from the atmosphere —an atmosphere nature stirs up by solar energy.Humans and soaring birds have found nature to be generousin providing replenishable energy. Sailplanes have flownover 1,000 miles, and the altitude record is over 50,000 feet.(Music)The Solar Challenger was made to serve as a symbolthat photovoltaic cells can produce real powerand will be part of the world&#39;s energy future.In 1981, it flew 163 miles from Paris to England,solely on the power of sunbeams,and established a basis for the Pathfinder.(Music)The message from all these vehicles is that ideas and technologycan be harnessed to produce remarkable gains in doing more with less —gains that can help us attain a desirable balancebetween technology and nature. The stakes are highas we speed toward a challenging future.Buckminster Fuller said it clearly: &quot;there are no passengerson spaceship Earth, only crew. We, the crew,can and must do more with less — much less.&quot;
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:如果我们有第二个视频，一分钟的，尽快地放进去，这个-这个将展示“探路者”飞机去年在夏威夷的几次飞行，还展示在它完成飞行71，530英尺之后一系列背后的美妙之处—比任何螺旋桨飞机飞得都要高。它很神奇，仅仅依靠太阳的微弱能量-通过一架超轻量飞机，你可以让它飞起来。这是一项NASA支持的长期项目的一部分。我们整个项目团结合作，通过团队的努力得到像那次飞行一样的很棒的结果。而我们正在做一架更大的的飞机—跨度220英尺—和一架带再生燃料电池的中型飞机它可以在白天储存过多的能量，在夜间把它输回去，每次可以几个月昼夜停留在65，000的高度。（音乐）这里会出现Ray Morgan的声音。他是项目经理。他们所作的一切无疑是团队协作的结果。他管理这个项目。这里他展示了一个最终的庆典仪式。我们刚在夏威夷结束了一个七个月长的部署。对于住在大陆的人来说，远离家人是比较艰苦的。我们夏威夷的朋友和军队主办方表示了友好的支持，无声的信心，适宜的款待—（音乐）这是开始了—让我们的经历很愉快和难忘。当飞机在飞行时，我们有通过互联网传出的实时的红外线扫描图像。它探测时不会污染平流层。那是它的目标：平流层，是真正控制地球辐射的毯子，它允许了地球上的生命如此兴旺。对那儿的探索是很重要的。同时我们把它叫做可怜人的同步卫星，因为它可以每次在正头顶上停留数个月—比真正的GFC同步卫星近2，000倍。我们没法带一个到现场来飞给你们看。
en:Paul MacCready: If we could have the second video, the one-minute,put in as quickly as you can, which — this will showthe Pathfinder airplane in some flights this past year in Hawaii,and will show a sequence of some of the beauty behind itafter it had just flown to 71,530 feet —higher than any propeller airplane has ever flown.It&#39;s amazing: just on the puny power of the sun —by having a super lightweight plane, you&#39;re able to get it up there.It&#39;s part of a long-term program NASA sponsored.And we worked very closely with the whole thing being a team effort,and with wonderful results like that flight.And we&#39;re working on a bigger plane — 220-foot span —and an intermediate-size, one with a regenerative fuel cellthat can store excess energy during the day, feed it back at night,and stay up 65,000 feet for months at a time.(Music)Ray Morgan&#39;s voice will come in here.There he&#39;s the project manager. Anything they dois certainly a team effort. He ran this program. Here&#39;s ...some things he showed as a celebration at the very end.Ray Morgan: We&#39;d just ended a seven-month deployment of Hawaii.For those who live on the mainland, it was tough being away from home.The friendly support, the quiet confidence, congenial hospitalityshown by our Hawaiian and military hosts —(Music)this is starting —made the experience enjoyable and unforgettable.PM: We have real-time IR scans going out through the Internetwhile the plane is flying. And it&#39;s exploringwithout polluting the stratosphere. That&#39;s its goal: the stratosphere,the blanket that really controls the radiation of the earthand permits life on earth to be the success that it is —probing that is very important. And also we consider itas a sort of poor man&#39;s stationary satellite,because it can stay right overhead for months at a time,2,000 times closer than the real GFC synchronous satellite.We couldn&#39;t bring one here to fly it and show you.
时间：12:21
zh-cn:但现在让我看看另一端。好。我展示了-在视频里你看到了那个八九英镑的“探路者”Keenan开发的无人驾驶监察机干得很漂亮。有些飞机的的伺服系统已经降到了，呃，18或25克，他的只重三分之一克。他将在这里拿出来的是一架只有2盎司重的无人驾驶监察机—那还包括了摄像头，给它动力的电池，遥测器，接收器和其它。我们会让它飞一下，我们希望，和昨天晚上试飞的时候一样成功。来Matt Keenan，只要你—好了—准备好让她飞了。但是首先，我们要确保它将在屏幕上出现，你会看到它看到的，你可以把自己想象成一只老鼠，或者在它里面飞行透过它的镜头往外看。它被接通了。但现在我们试一下影像。好了。你能打亮观众席的灯吗？好，灯亮了，我们可以更好地看到你们还能更好地飞这架飞机。行，我们将试着绕几个圈然后把它飞回来。开始了。（掌声）录像开始一会儿工作正常，我不知道为什么它—好了。哦，那才只有一分钟，可我想到飞行快结束时碰到它你将是安全的，也许。我们得做经典的。好。假如这个撞到你，它不会伤害你。（笑声）OK。（掌声）非常感谢，谢谢。（掌声）
en:But now let&#39;s look at the other end.In the video you saw that nine-pound or eight-pound Pointer airplanesurveillance drone that Keenan has developedand just done a remarkable job. Where some have servosthat have gotten down to, oh, 18 or 25 grams,his weigh one-third of a gram. And what he&#39;s going to bring out hereis a surveillance drone that weighs about 2 ounces —that includes the video camera, the batteries that run it,the telemetry, the receiver and so on. And we&#39;ll fly it, we hope,with the same success that we had last night when we did the practice.So Matt Keenan, just any time you&#39;re —all right— ready to let her go. But first, we&#39;re going to make surethat it&#39;s appearing on the screen, so you see what it sees.You can imagine yourself being a mouse or fly inside of it,looking out of its camera.Matt Keenan: It&#39;s switched on.PM: But now we&#39;re trying to get the video. There we go.MK: Can you bring up the house lights?PM: Yeah, the house lights and we&#39;ll see you all betterand be able to fly the plane better.MK: All right, we&#39;ll try to do a few laps around and bring it back in.Here we go.(Applause)PM: The video worked right for the first few and I don&#39;t know why it —there it goes.Oh, that was only a minute, but I think you&#39;d be safeto have that near the end of the flight, perhaps.We get to do the classic.All right.If this hits you, it will not hurt you.(Laughter)OK.(Applause)Thank you very much. Thank you.(Applause)
时间：14:59
zh-cn:但是现在，就像他们在信息广告里说的，我们为你准备了还要好得多的东西，我们正在做的：只有6英寸的飞机-15厘米-大小。Matt的飞机上个月登上了《流行科学》的封面，展示了这个可以引导的未来。待会儿，这个大小的东西将带有GPS和摄像头。我们用其中的一个在空中以35英里每小时的速度飞行了9英里它里面只带了一点电池。但是背后运用了大量的技术。这只是一系列非凡事物中的几个里程碑。这个没有内置摄像头，但是你会从它能做的事情中有所感触。好，我们开始了。（笑声）对不起。好。（掌声）你好以后请传一下下去。是的，我觉得—我有点失去方向了。我向上面的灯看，但是它碰到的是房子。而房子的位子摆的不是很好，事实上。（笑声)但你正开始理解我们可以做到什么。我们现在在做项目，甚至是拍打翅膀的东西天蛾的大小，DARPA合同，跟UCLA的加州科技合作。
en:But now, as they say in infomercials,we have something much better for you, which we&#39;re working on:planes that are only six inches — 15 centimeters — in size.And Matt&#39;s plane was on the cover of Popular Science last month,showing what this can lead to. And in a while, something this sizewill have GPS and a video camera in it. We&#39;ve had one of these flynine miles through the air at 35 miles an hourwith just a little battery in it.But there&#39;s a lot of technology going.There are just milestones along the way of some remarkable things.This one doesn&#39;t have the video in it,but you get a little feel from what it can do.OK, here we go.(Laughter)MK: Sorry.OK.(Applause)PM: If you can pass it down when you&#39;re done. Yeah, I think —I lost a little orientation; I looked up into this light.It hit the building. And the building was poorly placed, actually.(Laughter)But you&#39;re beginning to see what can be done.We&#39;re working on projects now — even wing-flapping thingsthe size of hawk moths — DARPA contracts, working with Caltech, UCLA.
时间：16:29
zh-cn:这将引向何方，我不知道。它实用吗？我不知道。但是就像任何基础研究，当你真的被迫去做已经远远超过现有技术的事情时，你可以通过微技术，纳米技术来达成。当你意识到自然一直在做什么时，你可以做成一些神奇的事情。当你处在这些小衡量范围时，你意识到我们可以向自然学到很多—不是通过747—但是当你来到自然的领域，自然有两亿年的经验，它从来没有犯过一个错误。因为你一旦犯错误，你不会留下任何后裔。我们除了自然的成功故事没有别的，对于你或对于鸟类，我们正在这个令人着迷的课题中学到很多。
en:Where all this leads, I don&#39;t know. Is it practical? I don&#39;t know.But like any basic research, when you&#39;re really forced to do thingsthat are way beyond existing technology,you can get there with micro-technology, nanotechnology.You can do amazing things when you realizewhat nature has been doing all along. As you get to these small scales,you realize we have a lot to learn from nature — not with 747s —but when you get down to the nature&#39;s realm,nature has 200 million years of experience.It never makes a mistake. Because if you make a mistake,you don&#39;t leave any progeny.We should have nothing but success stories from nature,for you or for birds, and we&#39;re learning a lotfrom its fascinating subjects.
时间：17:11
zh-cn:总结一下，我想回到大屏幕我试着用最后两张幻灯片来分析问题。第一张，我就读一下了。最后我把我想说的总结为三个句子。在几亿多年里，在一个特殊的球体上，机遇描绘了一层薄薄的生命图：复杂的，意想不到的，美好的并且脆弱的。突然，我们人类，一个降临不久的物种，不再遵从自然内固有的相互制衡，人口，科技和智力不断增长到达了一个拥有可怕能力的地位。我们现在挥舞着画笔，这是严肃的。我们不是很聪明。我们智慧不足；我们科技很强。它将走向何方？
en:In concluding, I want to get back to the big pictureand I have just two final slides to try and put it in perspective.The first I&#39;ll just read. At last, I put in three sentencesand had it say what I wanted.Over billions of years on a unique sphere, chance has painteda thin covering of life — complex, improbable, wonderfuland fragile. Suddenly, we humans — a recently arrived species,no longer subject to the checks and balances inherent in nature —have grown in population, technology and intelligenceto a position of terrible power. We now wield the paintbrush.And that&#39;s serious: we&#39;re not very bright. We&#39;re short on wisdom;we&#39;re high on technology. Where&#39;s it going to lead?
时间：18:00
zh-cn:好，从这些句子中得到灵感，我觉定挥动这个画笔。我每25年画一张图。这是一张—试图展示这个世界是不再变大的。可以说是一条时间轴，很非线性的刻度，自然比率三叶虫和恐龙，最后我们看到人类和山洞...翼龙之后鸟类在头上飞翔。然后我们来到了上面有个小电视机和一把枪的文明世界。然后交通阻塞，能量系统，和一些点代表数字-它将走向何处，我不知道。所以我就在那儿放了机器和普通的蟑螂，但是你可以填上任何你想的东西。这不是一个预测。这是一个警告，我们必须对它进行认真的思考。而它将发生的时间不是在100年或500年后。这个十年，下个十年一切正在发生。我们必须做出未来做什么的决定，时间很紧迫。假如我们在世界未来的问题上达成一些共识—理想的，当你的孩子到你的年龄时还是可持续的—我想我们实际上是可以做到的。我说了这是一个警告不是一个预言。那是以前了—我画了这个之后开始制作机器版的天蛾和蟑螂，现在我开始认真地思考这是不是比我想的还更是一个预言呢？我个人觉得在地球上生存的智能生命形态将来不会是以碳为主的；而将是以硅为主。那么未来会是怎样，我不知道。
en:Well, inspired by the sentences, I decided to wield the paintbrush.Every 25 years I do a picture. Here&#39;s the one —tries to show that the world isn&#39;t getting any bigger.Sort of a timeline, very non-linear scale, nature ratesand trilobites and dinosaurs, and eventually we saw some humanswith caves ... Birds were flying overhead, after pterosaurs.And then we get to the civilization above the little TV setwith a gun on it. Then traffic jams, and power systems,and some dots for digital. Where it&#39;s going to lead — I have no idea.And so I just put robotic and natural cockroaches out there,but you can fill in whatever you want. This is not a forecast.This is a warning, and we have to think seriously about it.And that time when this is happening is not 100 years or 500 years.Things are going on this decade, next decade;it&#39;s a very short time that we have to decide what we are going to do.And if we can get some agreement on where we want the world to be —desirable, sustainable when your kids reach your age —I think we actually can reach it. Now, I said this was a warning,not a forecast. That was before —I painted this before we started in on making robotic versionsof hawk moths and cockroaches, and now I&#39;m beginning to wonderseriously — was this more of a forecast than I wanted?I personally think the surviving intelligent life form on earthis not going to be carbon-based; it&#39;s going to be silicon-based.And so where it all goes, I don&#39;t know.
时间：19:38
zh-cn:我们最后要在这里呈现的最后一点灵感火花是一个彻底不切实际的飞行器，这是一个小的扑翼飞行装置—用橡皮筋提供能量—我们会给你看的。32克。不好意思，1克。不超过1克。昨晚我们发条多转了好几圈它试图冲出房顶。它大概重一克。管子中空，大约纸张一样薄。如果它落在你身上，我保证你不会受伤。但如果你伸手去抓它或握它，你会毁了它。所以，温柔一点，请小心翼翼对待。它飞下来的时候—我们会看到效果怎样。我们把这看做TED精神的一种。(掌声)你会想说，它有实际用途吗？原来我没有—（笑声）（掌声）很不幸，我们要换几个灯泡。我们也许可以把它拿下来，但也可能它在那上面有更好的归宿—（笑声）—比起它以前有过的归宿。我想—（掌声）-就-（掌声）
en:The one final bit of sparkle we&#39;ll put in at the very end hereis an utterly impractical flight vehicle,which is a little ornithopter wing-flapping device that —rubber-band powered — that we&#39;ll show you.MK: 32 gram. Sorry, one gram.PM: Last night we gave it a few too many turnsand it tried to bash the roof out also. It&#39;s about a gram.The tube there&#39;s hollow, about paper-thin.And if this lands on you, I assure you it will not hurt you.But if you reach out to grab it or hold it, you will destroy it.So, be gentle, just act like a wooden Indian or something.And when it comes down — and we&#39;ll see how it goes.We consider this to be sort of the spirit of TED.(Applause)And you wonder, is it practical? And it turns out if I had not been —(Laughter)(Applause)Unfortunately, we have some light bulb changes.We can probably get it down,but it&#39;s possible it&#39;s gone up to a greater destiny up there —(Laughter)— than it ever had. And I wanted to make —(Applause)just —(Applause)
时间：21:30
zh-cn:但是我想说就两点。一个是，你觉得它无足轻重；不带任何东西。如果我没有一直从事制作扑翼飞机像那个一样，稍微再简陋些，1939年—很久很久以前—就不会有后来的“游丝秃鹫“，就不会有后来的”信天翁”，太阳挑战者”，就不会有“影响力”汽车，在加州就不会有交通工具零排放的规定。很多这类事情—相似的事情—有可能要以后才能发生，可能十年以后。我在和团队做调查和实践的时候没有意识到，像他们在教育系统探索一样。所以我想那标志了它很重要。而且我相信那确实重要。你可以把它看做一种[不清楚]和TED的标志。像TED让人思考技术和自然，把它融入了所有—创造出这个大会的事物当中。我认为，比这个十年在这个国家发生的任何事情都重要。谢谢。
en:But I want to make just two points. One is, you think it&#39;s frivolous;there&#39;s nothing to it. And yet if I had not been making ornithopterslike that, a little bit cruder, in 1939 — a long, long time ago —there wouldn&#39;t have been a Gossamer Condor,there wouldn&#39;t have been an Albatross, a Solar Challenger,there wouldn&#39;t be an Impact car, there wouldn&#39;t be a mandateon zero-emission vehicles in California.A lot of these things — or similar — would have happened some time,probably a decade later. I didn&#39;t realize at the timeI was doing inquiry-based, hands-on things with teams,like they&#39;re trying to get in education systems.So I think that, as a symbol, it&#39;s important.And I believe that also is important. You can think of itas a sort of a symbol for learning and TEDthat somehow gets you thinking of technology and nature,and puts it all together in things that are —that make this conference, I think, more important than anythat&#39;s taken place in this country in this decade.Thank you. (Applause)
