时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今天我们要来谈谈改造,但是不是那种我们平时谈的那种改造。我想探讨的是那些现在正在发生在我们科学界，生物科技领域的事，这里，是历史上真正的第一次，我们有能力来改造生物体，改造动物体，改造人体。在我们地球的历史上，已经经历了三次大规模的进化潮。
en:Today I want to talk about design,but not design as we usually think about it.I want to talk about what is happening nowin our scientific, biotechnological culture,where, for really the first time in history,we have the power to design bodies,to design animal bodies,to design human bodies.In the history of our planet,there have been three great waves of evolution.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:第一次大规模的进化潮是我们熟知的达尔文式进化。那是，就一如你们所知的，生物生活在特殊的生物环境和特殊的生态环境下，这些环境的生存压力挑选出那些改变了的，通过随机变异的生物体，来进一步生存。接着人类跳出了达尔文式进化历史的潮流并创造出第二个大规模的进化潮，就是我们改变那些让我们进化的环境。我们通过创造文明从而改变了我们的生物环境。这就是第二个大规模的—好几万年前的，15万年前—进化潮流。通过改变我们的环境，我们找寻到新的压力来促使我们进化。无论是通过经历农业社会，一直经历到现代医学社会，我们已经改变了我们的演变历程。现在我们正步入进化史上第三次大规模进化潮，这次进化有很多别称：意识性进化，改造性进化—和智能改造很不同—借此我们实际现在正在有意识的改造和改变栖息在我们地球的生物的生物形态。
en:The first wave of evolutionis what we think of as Darwinian evolution.So, as you all know,species lived in particular ecological nichesand particular environments,and the pressures of those environmentsselected which changes,through random mutation in species,were going to be preserved.Then human beings stepped outof the Darwinian flow of evolutionary historyand created the second great wave of evolution,which was we changed the environmentin which we evolved.We altered our ecological nicheby creating civilization.And that has been the second great —couple 100,000 years, 150,000 years —flow of our evolution.By changing our environment,we put new pressureson our bodies to evolve.Whether it was through settling down in agricultural communities,all the way through modern medicine,we have changed our own evolution.Now we&#39;re entering a third great waveof evolutionary history,which has been called many things:&quot;intentional evolution,&quot;&quot;evolution by design&quot; —very different than intelligent design —whereby we are actually nowintentionally designing and alteringthe physiological forms that inhabit our planet.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:所以我想带大家经历一场进化的暴风之旅并接着在最后讨论一些对于我们，对于我们种族，同时也对于我们的文明会有什么样的影响，从这次转变。现在我们实际上已经转变了很久了。我们在数千年之前就开始有选择的喂养动物。如果你以狗作为例子来思考，狗是有意识的被改造的生物。在生态环境下地球上没有狗。狗是我们根据我们喜好而选择性喂养的产物。但是我们在过去不得不用一种艰苦的方式来选择那些有着特定特征的后代来喂养它们。我们再也不必在这样做了。
en:So I want to take you through a kind of whirlwind tour of thatand then at the end talk a little bitabout what some of the implications are for usand for our species, as well as our cultures,because of this change.Now we actually have been doing it for a long time.We started selectively breeding animalsmany, many thousands of years ago.And if you think of dogs for example,dogs are now intentionally-designed creatures.There isn&#39;t a dog on this earth that&#39;s a natural creature.Dogs are the resultof selectively breeding traits that we like.But we had to do it the hard way in the old daysby choosing offspring that looked a particular wayand then breeding them.We don&#39;t have to do it that way anymore.
时间： 2:49
zh-cn:这是个皮弗娄牛。皮弗娄牛是水牛和肉牛的杂交种。他们现在正在研究它们，到了某天，也许会很快，你会在你当地的超市里吃到皮弗娄牛肉饼。这是头山绵羊，山羊，绵羊的杂交种。创造出这可爱小东西的科学家们最后把它屠宰了随后吃了它。我记得他们说它尝起来像鸡肉。这是匹卡马驼。卡马驼是骆驼，美洲驼的杂交种，为了尝试使之有骆驼的耐劳力和美洲驼的一部分性格特点而创造。它们现已在某些环境下得到利用。这是狮虎兽，世界上最大的猫科动物—狮子，老虎的杂交种。它的体型比老虎的大。这个类狮虎兽的案例，实际上在野生环境下已经被观察到一两次了。但是这些科学家创造的那些生物使用了选择性喂养和基因技术。接着最后，大家的最爱，卓斯马，没有一个是被修改过的；它们是真实的生物。我们已经掌握的其中一种技术是使用基因改良，或者基因操控，加以常规的选择性喂养来推进基因的改良。如果这就是所有的全部，那它是一件有趣的事。但是一些更加有影响力的事正在发生。
en:This is a beefalo.A beefalo is a buffalo-cattle hybrid.And they are now making them,and someday, perhaps pretty soon,you will have beefalo pattiesin your local supermarket.This is a geep,a goat-sheep hybrid.The scientists that made this cute little creatureended up slaughtering it and eating it afterwards.I think they said it tasted like chicken.This is a cama.A cama is a camel-llama hybrid,created to try to get the hardiness of a camelwith some of the personality traitsof a llama.And they are now using these in certain cultures.Then there&#39;s the liger.This is the largest cat in the world —the lion-tiger hybrid.It&#39;s bigger than a tiger.And in the case of the liger,there actually have been one or two that have been seen in the wild.But these were created by scientistsusing both selective breeding and genetic technology.And then finally, everybody&#39;s favorite,the zorse.None of this is Photoshopped. These are real creatures.And so one of the things we&#39;ve been doingis using genetic enhancement,or genetic manipulation,of normal selective breedingpushed a little bit through genetics.And if that were all this was about,then it would be an interesting thing.But something much, much more powerfulis happening now.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:正常的哺乳类动物细胞和从深海水母上提取出的荧光基因基因程度上融合。我们都知道一些深海动物发光。嗯，他们现在已经提取出这基因，这生物发光的基因，并把它融入哺乳动物细胞。这是正常的细胞。这里你看到的是在黑暗中发出特定波长的光的细胞。一旦他们能在细胞上应用，他们也能用在生物体上。于是他们把它用在幼鼠上，小猫上。顺道提一下，小猫呈现橙色小鼠呈现绿色是因为一个的发光基因来自珊瑚，另外一个来自水母。他们把它用在猪上。他们把它用在小狗上，并且，实际上，他们把它用在了猴子上。如果你能把它作用在猴子上—虽然从猴子到猿事实上对于基因操作是巨大的跃进—如果他们能把它作用在猴子上，他们就可能想出如果作用在猿上，这就意味着他们能让它作用在人类上。换句话说，理论上这是可能的在很久以后我们生物技术上能够创造出能在黑夜发光的人类。在夜晚就更容易发现我们。
en:These are normal mammalian cellsgenetically engineered with a bioluminescent genetaken out of deep-sea jellyfish.We all know that some deep-sea creatures glow.Well, they&#39;ve now taken that gene, that bioluminescent gene,and put it into mammal cells.These are normal cells.And what you see hereis these cells glowing in the darkunder certain wavelengths of light.Once they could do that with cells, they could do it with organisms.So they did it with mouse pups,kittens.And by the way, the reason the kittens here are orange and these are greenis because that&#39;s a bioluminescent gene from coral,while this is from jellyfish.They did it with pigs.They did it with puppies.And, in fact,they did it with monkeys.And if you can do it with monkeys —though the great leap in trying to genetically manipulateis actually between monkeys and apes —if they can do it in monkeys,they can probably figure out how to do it in apes,which means they can do it in human beings.In other words, it is theoretically possiblethat before too long we will be biotechnologically capableof creating human beingsthat glow in the dark.Be easier to find us at night.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:实际上，现在很多州内，你能出去买到生物荧光的宠物。这些是斑马鱼。正常的他们是黑色和银色的。这些斑马鱼已经被基因重组成黄色，绿色，红色，它们实际上如今在一些州已经能买到。另外一些州则被禁止。没人知道对这种生物荧光怎么做。政府间没有相关部门—这不归环境保护局或者食品药物监管局管—来控制基因改造过的宠物。所以一些州决定允许它们，一些州则决定禁止它们。
en:And in fact, right now in many states,you can go out and you can buy bioluminescent pets.These are zebra fish. They&#39;re normally black and silver.These are zebra fish that have been genetically engineeredto be yellow, green, red,and they are actually available now in certain states.Other states have banned them.Nobody knows what to do with these kinds of creatures.There is no area of the government — not the EPA or the FDA —that controls genetically-engineered pets.And so some states have decided to allow them,some states have decided to ban them.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:你们中的一些如今可能了解食品药物监管局对于基因改造的鲑鱼的焦虑。上面的鲑鱼是被基因改造的且努克鲑鱼，利用了这种鲑鱼和另外一种我们食用的鱼的基因来让它长的更快吃的更少。如今食物药品监管局正试着作出最后的决定关于是否你可以食用这种鱼—（一旦通过）这种鱼就会被出售。在你太担心它之前，在美国，你超市里买到的大多数食物在包装上已经有基因改造标示。所以即使你担心它，我们已经允许它进入这个国家—不同于欧盟—毫无任何条例，甚至包装上没有任何表明。
en:Some of you may have readabout the FDA&#39;s consideration right nowof genetically-engineered salmon.The salmon on topis a genetically engineered Chinook salmon,using a gene from these salmonand from one other fish that we eat,to make it grow much fasterusing a lot less feed.And right now the FDA is trying to make a final decisionon whether, pretty soon, you could be eating this fish —it&#39;ll be sold in the stores.And before you get too worried about it,here in the United States,the majority of food you buy in the supermarketalready has genetically-modified components to it.So even as we worry about it,we have allowed it to go on in this country — much different in Europe —without any regulation,and even without any identification on the package.
时间： 7:16
zh-cn:这些全是第一批它们种群的克隆动物。在右下方，是多利，第一头克隆羊—如今在爱丁堡某个博物馆幸福的成为了标本；拉尔夫鼠，第一只克隆鼠；赛赛猫，克隆猫；史努比，第一只克隆狗首尔国立大学小狗史努比—生育于韩国由也许你们还记得的南韩造假丑闻的同一个研究员他最后不得不羞辱的辞职因为他声称他已经克隆出人类细胞，其实他没有。他实际上是第一个克隆狗的人，其实这是个很艰苦的工作，因为狗的基因排列的可塑性是很强的。这是普罗提耶，第一匹马。它是在意大利的哈弗灵克隆马，克隆界的一个金戒指，因为很多赢得重要比赛的马是被阉割的。换句话说，让他们成为种马的器官已经被移除了。但是如果你能克隆这些马，你能同时拥有阉割马在比赛上的优势和它独特的基因组来让它繁衍下一代。这些是第一批克隆的小牛，第一批克隆的灰狼。接着，最终，第一批克隆的小猪：亚历克西斯，克里斯蒂娜，卡雷尔，贾妮和道蒂肯。
en:These are all the first cloned animalsof their type.So in the lower right here,you have Dolly, the first cloned sheep —now happily stuffed in a museum in Edinburgh;Ralph the rat, the first cloned rat;CC the cat, for cloned cat;Snuppy, the first cloned dog —Snuppy for Seoul National University puppy —created in South Koreaby the very same man that some of you may rememberhad to end up resigning in disgracebecause he claimed he had cloned a human embryo, which he had not.He actually was the first personto clone a dog, which is a very difficult thing to do,because dog genomes are very plastic.This is Prometea, the first cloned horse.It&#39;s a Haflinger horse cloned in Italy,a real &quot;gold ring&quot; of cloning,because there are many horses that win important raceswho are geldings.In other words, the equipment to put them out to studhas been removed.But if you can clone that horse,you can have both the advantage of having a gelding run in the raceand his identical genetic duplicatecan then be put out to stud.These were the first cloned calves,the first cloned grey wolves,and then, finally,the first cloned piglets:Alexis, Chista, Carrel, Janie and Dotcom.
时间： 8:37
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:另外，我们开始利用克隆技术来试着拯救濒危物种。现在也有作用于动物使其能从体内制造药物和其他我们想要的东西。这山羊体内有抗凝血酶—这山羊已经被基因改造过了所以它的羊奶分子实际上包含了GTC基因创造的抗凝血酶分子。接着，转基因的猪，改造过的猪，来自于韩国的生物科学研究所，实际上，他们用这些猪来试着制造所有的药物或其他工业化学物质他们想要这些动物的血和奶来制造这些物质，而不是用工业制造的方式。
en:In addition, we&#39;ve started to use cloning technologyto try to save endangered species.This is the use of animals nowto create drugs and other things in their bodiesthat we want to create.So with antithrombin in that goat —that goat has been genetically modifiedso that the molecules of its milkactually include the molecule of antithrombinthat GTC Genetics wants to create.And then in addition, transgenic pigs, knockout pigs,from the National Institute of Animal Science in South Korea,are pigs that they are going to use, in fact,to try to create all kinds of drugsand other industrial types of chemicalsthat they want the blood and the milkof these animalsto produce for them,instead of producing them in an industrial way.
时间： 9:35
zh-cn:这两种生物是为了拯救濒危生物而被创造的。瓜尔牛是东南亚濒危蹄类动物。一个肉细胞，身体细胞，从它身上提取出来在一头牛的子宫中怀孕，接着让牛生下这头瓜尔牛。同样的事也发生在这摩弗伦羊上，它是一种濒危的羊类动物。它在一头普通羊体内受孕，这实际上产生了一个有趣的生物学问题。我们体内有两种DNA。我们有我们细胞核内的DNA就是每个人都知道的DNA，但是我们也有DNA在我们线粒体内，它是细胞的能量源。这种DNA是从母系上得到传承。所以实际上，我们最终有的不是一头瓜尔牛也不是头摩弗伦羊，而是一头瓜尔牛有着奶牛的线粒体，因此有奶牛的线粒体DNA，和一头摩弗伦羊有着另外一种羊的线粒体DNA。它们实际上是杂交种，而不是纯种。这产生了个我们如果定义生物种类的问题在这生物技术的时代—一个我们还不确定如何解决的问题。
en:These are two creaturesthat were createdin order to save endangered species.The guaris an endangered Southeast Asian ungulate.A somatic cell, a body cell,was taken from its body,gestated in the ovum of a cow,and then that cow gave birth to a guar.Same thing happened with the mouflon,where it&#39;s an endangered species of sheep.It was gestated in a regular sheep body,which actually raises an interesting biological problem.We have two kinds of DNA in our bodies.We have our nucleic DNAthat everybody thinks of as our DNA,but we also have DNA in our mitochondria,which are the energy packets of the cell.That DNA is passed down through our mothers.So really, what you end up having hereis not a guar and not a mouflon,but a guarwith cow mitochondria,and therefore cow mitochondrial DNA,and a mouflon with another species of sheep&#39;smitochondrial DNA.These are really hybrids, not pure animals.And it raises the question of how we&#39;re going to define animal speciesin the age of biotechnology —a question that we&#39;re not really sure yethow to solve.
时间：10:55
zh-cn:这些可爱的生物是亚洲蟑螂。他们做的是是把电极放进它的神经中枢和大脑并在头部放置一个发射器，它正在一个电脑追踪球上。现在，使用操纵杆，他们能把这个生物送到实验室四周并控制他们向左或向右，向前或者向后。他们已经制造出一种昆虫机器，或者叫虫器。它可能比这个差一点—或者可能比这个好一点。这是事实是DARPA的一个很重要的—DARPA就是防御远景研究规划局—项目。这些歌利亚甲虫在翅膀上有天线。它们的背上捆绑这一个电脑芯片，他们就能在实验室周围飞行这种生物。他们能让它向左，向右。他们能让它停下来。实际上他们还不能让它们着陆。他们把它们降落到地面上一英尺高接着他们就关闭所有设备后它们就砰然落下。但是这是他们能降落的最近高度。
en:This lovely creatureis an Asian cockroach.And what they&#39;ve done hereis they&#39;ve put electrodes in its ganglia and its brainand then a transmitter on top,and it&#39;s on a big computer tracking ball.And now, using a joystick,they can send this creaturearound the laband control whether it goes left or right,forwards or backwards.They&#39;ve created a kind of insect bot,or bugbot.It gets worse than that — or perhaps better than that.This actually is one of DARPA&#39;s very important —DARPA is the Defense Research Agency —one of their projects.These goliath beetlesare wired in their wings.They have a computer chip strapped to their backs,and they can fly these creatures around the lab.They can make them go left, right. They can make them take off.They can&#39;t actually make them land.They put them about one inch above the ground,and then they shut everything off and they go pfft.But it&#39;s the closest they can get to a landing.
时间：11:56
zh-cn:实际上，这项技术已经如此发达以至于这生物—这是个蛾。这是蛾的蛹期，这也是他们设置天线和电脑技术的时期。所以当这蛾变成蛾的时候，它已经被埋入天线好了。天线已经在它的体内，他们只要把它连接和他们的技术相连接，它们就能变成虫器它们就能被派出作为侦查。他们可以把微型摄像头放在它们上面或者某天运送某种军用设备去战场。
en:And in fact, this technology has gotten so developedthat this creature —this is a moth —this is the moth in its pupa stage,and that&#39;s when they put the wires inand they put in the computer technology,so that when the moth actually emerges as a moth,it is already prewired.The wires are already in its body,and they can just hook it up to their technology,and now they&#39;ve got these bugbotsthat they can send out for surveillance.They can put little cameras on themand perhaps someday deliverother kinds of ordinanceto warzones.
时间：12:35
zh-cn:这还不仅仅用昆虫。这是个老鼠机器，或者叫机器鼠由美国纽约州立大学的三久·塔瓦尔研发。再一次，它包含了现代科技，电极刺入它的左右半脑，在它的头上有一个摄像机。科学家就能让这个生物向左，向右走。他们能让它穿行于迷宫中，控制它的走向。他们已经创造出了生物机器人。在三久·塔瓦尔实验室的研究生说，“这是道德的吗？我们剥夺了这动物的自主权。”我会过一会儿再讲这些。
en:It&#39;s not just insects.This is the ratbot, or the robo-ratby Sanjiv Talwar at SUNY Downstate.Again, it&#39;s got technology —it&#39;s got electrodes going into its left and right hemispheres;it&#39;s got a camera on top of its head.The scientists can make this creaturego left, right.They have it running through mazes, controlling where it&#39;s going.They&#39;ve now created an organic robot.The graduate studentsin Sanjiv Talwar&#39;s labsaid, &quot;Is this ethical?We&#39;ve taken away the autonomy of this animal.&quot;I&#39;ll get back to that in a minute.
时间：13:12
zh-cn:这技术也应用在猴子上。这是杜克的米格尔·尼古拉雷思。他使用猫头鹰猴，置入电极电脑就能监视它们的大脑，当它们运动的时候，特别是当他们右手活动的时候。电脑会学习猴脑如何运作用不同方式来移动它的手臂。接着他们把它连接到一个假肢上，就如你能看到的一样，把手臂放在另一个房间。很快，电脑就学会，通过读取猴子的脑电波，来控制另外那个房间的手臂做任何猴子手臂在做的事情。接着他把一个视频显示器放在猴子的笼子里给猴子看这个假肢，结果猴子对此很着迷。猴子意识到无论她用手做什么，那假肢也会做什么。最后她会动一下动一下的，最终会停止舞动她的右手并，盯着屏幕，挥舞来另外一个房间的假肢仅仅靠她的脑电波—这意味着猴子已经成为世界历史上一个拥有三个独立功能手臂的灵长类动物。
en:There&#39;s also been work done with monkeys.This is Miguel Nicolelis of Duke.He took owl monkeys,wired them upso that a computer watched their brains while they moved,especially looking at the movement of their right arm.The computer learned what the monkey brain didto move its arm in various ways.They then hooked it up to a prosthetic arm,which you see here in the picture,put the arm in another room.Pretty soon, the computer learned, by reading the monkey&#39;s brainwaves,to make that arm in the other roomdo whatever the monkey&#39;s arm did.Then he put a video monitorin the monkey&#39;s cagethat showed the monkey this prosthetic arm,and the monkey got fascinated.The monkey recognized that whatever she did with her arm,this prosthetic arm would do.And eventually she was moving it and moving it,and eventually stopped moving her right armand, staring at the screen,could move the prosthetic arm in the other roomonly with her brainwaves —which means that monkeybecame the first primate in the history of the worldto have three independent functional arms.
时间：14:18
zh-cn:这不仅仅是个科级让我们应用在动物上。这是佛罗里达大学的托马斯·迪马斯。它实验了2万，接着6万个分解的鼠神经元—这些只是老鼠身上的分离的神经细胞—把它们放入芯片中。它们会自主的连接到网络中，成为一个完整的芯片。他把这作为电脑芯片来运行飞行模拟机械。现在我们有了生物电脑芯片由自主连接的神经细胞组成。最后，西北部的穆萨·伊瓦尔迪完成了一个完整无缺的，独立的鳗鱼脑。这就是那个鳗鱼脑。它是活着的，完整无损的大脑浸在营养液中通体置入了电极，连接着大脑的光敏感应器，然后把它放进一个推车—这就是那个推车，大脑就在这个里面—并用这个大脑作为这推车的单独的处理器，当你打开灯照射这推车的时候，推车会向光源移动；当你关闭光源，它就会远离。它是趋光性的。现在我们有了个完整的活体的鳗鱼脑。它是不是用鳗鱼的思维方式，而浸泡在这营养液中呢？我不知道，但是事实是它是一个完整的活体的大脑是我们试着让它保持生命活性来行使我们的命令。
en:And it&#39;s not just technologythat we&#39;re putting into animals.This is Thomas DeMarse at the University of Florida.He took 20,000 and then 60,000disaggregated rat neurons —so these are just individual neurons from rats —put them on a chip.They self-aggregated into a network,became an integrated chip.And he used thatas the IT pieceof a mechanism which ran a flight simulator.So now we have organic computer chipsmade out of living, self-aggregating neurons.Finally, Mussa-Ivaldi of Northwesterntook a completely intact,independent lamprey eel brain.This is a brain from a lamprey eel.It is living —fully-intact brain in a nutrient mediumwith these electrodes going off to the sides,attached photosensitive sensors to the brain,put it into a cart —here&#39;s the cart, the brain is sitting there in the middle —and using this brain as the sole processor for this cart,when you turn on a light and shine it at the cart,the cart moves toward the light;when you turn it off, it moves away.It&#39;s photophilic.So now we have a completeliving lamprey eel brain.Is it thinking lamprey eel thoughts,sitting there in its nutrient medium?I don&#39;t know,but in fact it is a fully living brainthat we have managed to keep aliveto do our bidding.
时间：15:54
zh-cn:所以，我们现在在一个我们能够依照我们自己目的创造生命的阶段。这是只由马萨诸塞大学的查尔斯·瓦坎蒂创造的老鼠。他改造了这老鼠所以它是被基因改造过的有着更少排斥性的人类肌肤，在它内部有着支撑耳朵的聚合脚手架这创造出的耳朵能从老鼠体内取出并移植给人类。基因工程伴随着聚合物理技术协同异种移植技术。这就是我们在这个过程中的进度。
en:So, we are now at the stagewhere we are creating creaturesfor our own purposes.This is a mouse created by Charles Vacantiof the University of Massachusetts.He altered this mouseso that it was genetically engineeredto have skin that was less immunoreactive to human skin,put a polymer scaffolding of an ear under itand created an ear that could then be taken off the mouseand transplanted onto a human being.Genetic engineeringcoupled with polymer physiotechnologycoupled with xenotransplantation.This is where we are in this process.
时间：16:33
zh-cn:最后，不久之前，克雷格·范特创造出了一个人工细胞，他用了一个真的细胞，利用DNA合成器（读取了它的染色体），这是一种能制造人工染色体的机器，再把合成器放进另一个细胞中—另一个细胞的染色体和第一个细胞的是不一样的—当第二个细胞自己复制就复制出了第一个细胞。换句话说，这是世界历史上一个用电脑作为父母的生物—它没有生物意义上的父母。所以，《经济学家》提出“第一个人工生物和它的结局。”
en:Finally, not that long ago,Craig Venter created the first artificial cell,where he took a cell, took a DNA synthesizer,which is a machine,created an artificial genome,put it in a different cell —the genome was not of the cell he put it in —and that cell then reproducedas the other cell.In other words,that was the first creature in the history of the worldthat had a computer as its parent —it did not have an organic parent.And so, asks The Economist:&quot;The first artificial organism and its consequences.&quot;
时间：17:10
zh-cn:你可能会想这生物的生命会变成看起来像这样的东西。（笑声）但是实际上，这不是弗兰肯斯坦实验室的样子。这才是弗兰肯斯坦实验室的原貌。这是个DNA合成器，在这底部有着标记着A,T,C和G的瓶子—这四种化学物质组成了我们的DNA链。
en:So you may have thoughtthat the creation of lifewas going to happen in something that looked like that.(Laughter)But in fact, that&#39;s not what Frankenstein&#39;s lab looks like.This is what Frankenstein&#39;s lab looks like.This is a DNA synthesizer,and here at the bottomare just bottles of A, T, C and G —the four chemicalsthat make up our DNA chain.
时间：17:34
zh-cn:所以，我们需要问我们自己一些问题。作为地球史上第一次我们能够直接设计生物体。我们用空前的力量操控生物等离子体。如果赋予我们的是一种责任。那我们做什么都可以吗？操控和制造任何我们想要的生物是可行的吗？我们是否可以无约束地设计生命体？某天我们是否会根据喜好决定宠物并说，“看，我想要一只狗。我想要它有达克斯猎狗的头，猎狗的身体，也许一些粉色的毛，再让它在黑暗中发光。”是否工业创造生物用它们的奶，血，和唾液和其他的体液，来生产我们需要的药物和工业分子并圈养它们成为生物制药机器是可以的？是否我们创造出生命机器，导致这些动物失去自由来把它们变成我们的玩物是可以的？
en:And so, we need to ask ourselves some questions.For the first time in the history of this planet,we are able to directly design organisms.We can manipulate the plasmas of lifewith unprecedented power,and it confers on us a responsibility.Is everything okay?Is it okay to manipulate and createwhatever creatures we want?Do we have free reignto design animals?Do we get to go someday to Pets &#39;R&#39; Usand say, &quot;Look, I want a dog.I&#39;d like it to have the head of a Dachshund,the body of a retriever,maybe some pink fur,and let&#39;s make it glow in the dark&quot;?Does industry get to create creatureswho, in their milk, in their blood, and in their salivaand other bodily fluids,create the drugs and industrial molecules we wantand then warehouse themas organic manufacturing machines?Do we get to create organic robots,where we remove the autonomy from these animalsand turn them just into our playthings?
时间：18:38
zh-cn:接着最后的一布，一旦我们用动物体完善了这些科技我们就会开始在人体上运用，这就涉及到道德界限我们是否可能用？这已经发生了；这不是科幻小说。我们不仅仅已经运用在动物体内，我们也开始运用一部分在我们人体内。
en:And then the final step of this,once we perfect these technologies in animalsand we start using them in human beings,what are the ethical guidelinesthat we will use then?It&#39;s already happening. It&#39;s not science fiction.We are not only already using these things in animals,some of them we&#39;re already beginning to useon our own bodies.
时间：19:01
zh-cn:我们现在在说的是控制我们自己的进化。我们正直接的设计星球上的未来的物种。它赋予了我们巨大的责任而且不仅仅是对那些思考这问题和论述这问题的科学家和论理学家的责任。它也是每个人的责任所在因为它关系到未来我们将会有哪些生物体居住在这星球。
en:We are now taking control of our own evolution.We are directly designingthe future of the species of this planet.It confers upon us an enormous responsibilitythat is not just the responsibilityof the scientists and the ethicistswho are thinking about it and writing about it now.It is the responsibility of everybodybecause it will determine what kind of planet and what kind of bodieswe will have in the future.
时间：19:26
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thanks.
时间：19:28
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
