时间： 0:11
zh-cn:让我用四个字来概括本周的主题这四个字将诠释这个世纪。这四个字就是：地球已满。地球装满了我们人类，我们的东西，我们的废物，还有我们的需求。的确，人类是集智慧与创造力于一身的物种。但我们创造的东西有些过多了，以至于我们的经济增长超过了其寄主——地球——的承受力。
en:Let me begin with four wordsthat will provide the context for this week,four words that will come to definethis century.Here they are:The Earth is full.It&#39;s full of us, it&#39;s full of our stuff,full of our waste, full of our demands.Yes, we are a brilliant and creative species,but we&#39;ve created a little too much stuff —so much that our economy is now biggerthan its host, our planet.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:这不是一句哲言，而是科学，是建立在物理学、化学和生物学基础上的科学。对此，人们开展了许多科学分析，而这些分析的结果都是相同的——我们正在透支我们的星球。举个例子，环球足迹组织的科学家们计算得出，我们需要1.5个地球才能维系现行的经济模式。换句话说，为了保持现有的运行状况，我们还需要半个地球。用财政术语来说，这就好比总支出比总收入多50%，导致每年的债务不断累积。当然我们借不来自然资源，于是我们只能坐吃山空或超前消费。
en:This is not a philosophical statement,this is just sciencebased in physics,chemistry and biology.There are many science-based analyses of this,but they all draw the same conclusion —that we&#39;re living beyond our means.The eminent scientists of the Global Footprint Network, for example,calculate that we need about 1.5 Earthsto sustain this economy.In other words,to keep operating at our current level,we need 50 percent more Earth than we&#39;ve got.In financial terms,this would be like always spending 50 percent more than you earn,going further into debt every year.But of course, you can&#39;t borrow natural resources,so we&#39;re burning through our capital,or stealing from the future.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:所以当我说地球已满，我没有半点夸张。千真万确。毫无疑问。毫无争议。这意味着我们的经济模式是不可持续的。我并不是说这不是件好事，也不是说这对北极熊或森林不利，尽管这的确对它们不利。我的意思是我们的做法是不可持续的。换句话说，多亏了那些讨厌的物理规律，当事物发展不具可持续性，它们就会停止。你可能会认为这不可能。我们不能让经济增长停下来。这是因为停下来的是：经济增长。经济增长会因为贸易资源的终结而停止，也会因为我们对地球上所有资源、所有空间、所有产能、所有系统贪婪的需求而停止。这种贪婪如今也在损害我们的经济。
en:So when I say full, I mean really full —well past any margin for error,well past any disputeabout methodology.What this means is our economy is unsustainable.I&#39;m not saying it&#39;s not nice or pleasantor that it&#39;s bad for polar bears or forests,though it certainly is.What I&#39;m sayingis our approach is simply unsustainable.In other words, thanks to those pesky laws of physics,when things aren&#39;t sustainable, they stop.But that&#39;s not possible, you might think.We can&#39;t stop economic growth.Because that&#39;s what will stop: economic growth.It will stop because of the end of trade resources.It will stop because of the growing demand of uson all the resources, all the capacity,all the systems of the Earth,which is now having economic damage.
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:一想到经济增长将停止，我们自然而然的认为：“ 那是不可能的”。因为经济增长对于我们的社会至关重要，以致我们从来不质疑它。尽管增长的确带来了许多好处，但是由于这个概念过于重要，以至于我们不愿去想象它消失的可能性。尽管它带来了许多好处，但是它却建立在一个疯狂的想法上——这个想法就是我们可以在一个有限的地球上进行无限的发展。我在这里告诉你们这些穿新衣的皇帝，这个想法就是这样，非常疯狂，当地球已满，游戏结束。
en:When we think about economic growth stopping,we go, &quot;That&#39;s not possible,&quot;because economic growth is so essential to our societythat is is rarely questioned.Although growth has certainly delivered many benefits,it is an idea so essentialthat we tend not to understandthe possibility of it not being around.Even though it has delivered many benefits,it is based on a crazy idea —the crazy idea beingthat we can have infinite growthon a finite planet.And I&#39;m here to tell you the emperor has no clothes.That the crazy idea is just that,it is crazy,and with the Earth full, it&#39;s game over.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:你在想：少来了，那是不可能的。科技是如此神奇。人们善于创新。我们有很多办法来改进做事的方式。我们一定可以解决这个问题。这些都对。应该说，多数情况下是对的。我们的确很厉害。我们经常用神奇的创造力解决复杂的问题。如果我们的问题是把人类经济从150%缩减到100%的地球承载力，那么我们可以做到。问题是，我们还处于给这台增长发动机预热的阶段。我们打算让这个高度紧绷的经济翻一番，再翻一番。不是在遥远的未来，而是在四十年之内，在在座大多数人的有生之年。中国打算只用20年就实现这个目标。这个计划的唯一缺点就是它是不可行的。
en:Come on, you&#39;re thinking.That&#39;s not possible.Technology is amazing. People are innovative.There are so many ways we can improve the way we do things.We can surely sort this out.That&#39;s all true.Well, it&#39;s mostly true.We are certainly amazing,and we regularly solve complex problemswith amazing creativity.So if our problemwas to get the human economy downfrom 150 percent to 100 percent of the Earth&#39;s capacity,we could do that.The problem is we&#39;re just warming upthis growth engine.We plan to take this highly-stressed economyand make it twice as bigand then make it four times as big —not in some distant future,but in less than 40 years,in the life time of most of you.China plans to be there in just 20 years.The only problem with this planis that it&#39;s not possible.
时间： 4:12
zh-cn:对此，有人就反驳了我们需要增长来消除贫困，来发展科技，来维持社会稳定。我发现这些论调都非常吸引人，仿佛我们可以扭曲物理法则来适应我们的需求。这就好比地球并不在乎我们的需要。大自然从不与我们协商；她只是规定一系列法则，并警告我们违反法则的后果。这些并不是什么隐藏的限制。这是关于我们生活所需的食物、水、土壤和气候，我们实际可见的、经济发展的生活基础。
en:In response, some people argue,but we need growth, we need it to solve poverty.We need it to develop technology.We need it to keep social stability.I find this argument fascinating,as though we can kind of bend the rules of physicsto suit our needs.It&#39;s like the Earth doesn&#39;t care what we need.Mother nature doesn&#39;t negotiate;she just sets rules and describes consequences.And these are not esoteric limits.This is about food and water, soil and climate,the basic practical and economic foundationsof our lives.
时间： 4:49
zh-cn:有些人认为我们可以成功转型，过渡到一个高效的、太阳能发电、以知识为基础的经济，用科学技术实现这个转型，让90亿人口到2050年能够过上富足的生活并享受数字下载。这只是个幻想。我并不是说我们不可能过上衣食无忧的美好生活。当然是有可能的。但是，单纯地认为我们能够不费吹灰之力就实现那样的增长，那就错了，大错特错。因为这意味着，我们并没有为真正即将发生的结果做好准备。
en:So the idea that we can smoothly transitionto a highly-efficient,solar-powered, knowledge-based economytransformed by science and technologyso that nine billion peoplecan live in 2050a life of abundance and digital downloadsis a delusion.It&#39;s not that it&#39;s not possible to feed, clothe and house us alland have us live decent lives.It certainly is.But the idea that we can gently grow therewith a few minor hiccupsis just wrong,and it&#39;s dangerously wrong,because it means we&#39;re not getting readyfor what&#39;s really going to happen.
时间： 5:28
zh-cn:试想一下，如果你超负荷运行一个系统会发生什么情况，接着以持续加快的速度不停运行下去。这个系统会停止运转，继而崩溃。这就是我们的结局。许多人可能会想我们肯定可以阻止这样的情况发生。如果情况真有这么糟，我们可以采取对策。让我们思考一下这个想法。在过去的五十年中我们不停地收到警示。科学已证实了做出改变的急迫性。经济分析指出我们不仅有能力做到，而且越早采取措施，成本越低。然而，事实是我们基本上没有做出任何改变。我们甚至没有放慢速度。比如，在气候问题上，去年全球的碳排放量达到了历史最高值。粮食、水、土壤、气候方面的情况几乎同样恶劣。
en:See what happens when you operate a systempast its limitsand then keep on goingat an ever-accelerating rateis that the system stops working and breaks down.And that&#39;s what will happen to us.Many of you will be thinking,but surely we can still stop this.If it&#39;s that bad, we&#39;ll react.Let&#39;s just think through that idea.Now we&#39;ve had50 years of warnings.We&#39;ve had science provingthe urgency of change.We&#39;ve had economic analysis pointing outthat, not only can we afford it,it&#39;s cheaper to act early.And yet, the reality iswe&#39;ve done pretty much nothing to change course.We&#39;re not even slowing down.Last year on climate, for example,we had the highest global emissions ever.The story on food, on water, on soil, on climateis all much the same.
时间： 6:31
zh-cn:我并不是在说丧气话。我对于那些损失表示惋惜。但我接受现状。现状是悲哀的，但事已至此。然而，我们现在不能再逃避，而应认识到我们并没有采取行动，甚至没有打算采取行动。事实上，在经济危机来临之前，我们也不会采取任何行动。这就是为什么停止增长是我们应当准备面对的核心问题。
en:I actually don&#39;t say this in despair.I&#39;ve done my grieving about the loss.I accept where we are.It is sad,but it is what it is.But it is also timethat we ended our denialand recognizedthat we&#39;re not acting, we&#39;re not close to actingand we&#39;re not going to actuntil this crisis hits the economy.And that&#39;s why the end of growthis the central issueand the event that we need to get ready for.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:那么这个转型何时开始呢？瓦解何时开始？在我看来，它早就开始了。我知道大多数人不这么认为。我们倾向于不把世界看做一个统一的系统，而是一系列独立的问题。我们看到“占领华尔街”运动，看到愈演愈烈的债务危机，看到持续扩大的不平等现象，看到金钱对政治的影响，看到资源限制、粮食和石油价格问题但是，我们错误地将这些问题当作独立的问题分别解决。实际上，这是一个处于痛苦崩溃过程中的体系。这个以债务驱动增长的经济体系，这个民主失效的体系，这个让地球超载的体系，正自食恶果。
en:So when does this transition begin?When does this breakdown begin?In my view, it is well underway.I know most people don&#39;t see it that way.We tend to look at the world,not as the integrated system that it is,but as a series of individual issues.We see the Occupy protests,we see spiraling debt crises,we see growing inequality,we see money&#39;s influence on politics,we see resource constraint, food and oil prices.But we see, mistakenly, each of these issuesas individual problems to be solved.In fact, it&#39;s the systemin the painful process of breaking down —our system, of debt-fueled economic growth,of ineffective democracy,of overloading planet Earth,is eating itself alive.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:我可以举出无数项研究和证据来证明。但我不这么做，因为你们想看证据，证据随处可见。我想谈谈恐惧。这是因为，在我看来，我们面临的最大问题是如何应对这个问题。危机是不可避免的。问题在于我们作何反应。当然，我们无法预测将来。未来本就变幻莫测。
en:I could give you countless studiesand evidence to prove this,but I won&#39;t because, if you want to see it,that evidence is all around you.I want to talk to you about fear.I want to do so because, in my view,the most important issue we faceis how we respondto this question.The crisis is now inevitable.This issue is, how will we react?Of course, we can&#39;t know what will happen.The future is inherently uncertain.
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:可是，我们可以根据科学推断将有什么情况发生。设想一下，经济会发生什么情况如果碳市场泡沫破灭。当金融市场意识到这一点，想要阻止气候问题变得一发不可收拾，石油和煤炭行业就要关门。想象一下，中国、印度和巴基斯坦将开战，因为气候影响会引发争夺粮食和水的冲突。想象一下，中东没有了石油收入，而政府却分崩离析了。想象一下，我们高度灵敏的、准时制的食品业和高度紧绷的农业体系都失灵了，超市货架都空了。想象一下，美国的失业率达到30%因为全球经济被恐惧与不确定性所支配着。
en:But let&#39;s just think through what the science is telling usis likely to happen.Imagine our economywhen the carbon bubble bursts,when the financial markets recognizethat, to have any hopeof preventing the climate spiraling out of control,the oil and coal industries are finished.Imagine China, India and Pakistan going to waras climate impactsgenerate conflict over food and water.Imagine the Middle East without oil income,but with collapsing governments.Imagine our highly-tuned, just-in-time food industryand our highly-stressed agricultural system failingand supermarket shelves emptying.Imagine 30 percent unemployment in Americaas the global economy is grippedby fear and uncertainty.
时间： 9:22
zh-cn:现在，想象一下，这对于你、你的家庭、你的朋友、你个人的财务安全，意味着什么。想象一下这对于你的个人安全意味着什么，如果一群全副武装的民众对于眼前所发生的事情变得愈发愤怒。想象一下，当你的孩子问你爸爸妈妈，2012年是什么样子的，当你们经历了史上最热的三十年，当世界上每一个科学团体都认为你们面临一个重大问题，当海洋不断酸化，当石油和粮食的价格不断疯长，当人们在伦敦的大街上发动骚乱，当示威者占领了华尔街时？当这个体系明显在分崩离析，爸爸妈妈你们做了什么，你们都在想什么？
en:Now imagine what that means for you,your family, your friends,your personal financial security.Imagine what it meansfor your personal securityas a heavily armed civilian populationgets angrier and angrierabout why this was allowed to happen.Imagine what you&#39;ll tell your childrenwhen they ask you,&quot;So, in 2012, Mom and Dad,what was it likewhen you&#39;d had the hottest decade on recordfor the third decade in a row,when every scientific body in the world was sayingyou&#39;ve got a major problem,when the oceans were acidifying,when oil and food prices were spiking,when they were rioting in the streets of Londonand occupying Wall Street?When the system was so clearly breaking down, Mom and Dad,what did you do, what were you thinking?&quot;
时间：10:17
zh-cn:当你心中对全球经济的期望落空时，你有什么感受？当你对未来的预想灰飞烟灭，大为不同的另一种结果发生时，你有什么感受？用几秒钟时间深呼吸想一想，此时此刻你有何感受。也许是否认。也许是愤怒。也许是恐惧。当然，我们无法预知未来，且我们必须活在未知中。想到我描述的那些可能发生的情况，我们应该感到一丝恐惧。
en:So how do you feelwhen the lights go outon the global economy in your mind,when your assumptions about the futurefade awayand something very different emerges?Just take a momentand take a breathand think, what do you feelat this point?Perhaps denial.Perhaps anger.Maybe fear.Of course, we can&#39;t know what&#39;s going to happenand we have to live with uncertainty.But when we think about the kind of possibilities I paint,we should feel a bit of fear.
时间：11:12
zh-cn:我们所有人都身处危险之中，所有，我们已经学会以恐惧回应危险进而采取有力措施，最终让自己勇敢面对威胁。但这次的危险并不是破篮猛虎，危险的枪口对准的不是你的家门。但是如果你仔细看，你会看到枪口对准的是全人类。这就是为什么，我们必须在还能看到光明的时候采取应对措施。因为一旦危机占了上风，我们可能会惊慌失措。如果我们现在发现了危险，并冷静思考，就会知道其实除了恐惧本身，我们无所畏惧。是的，结果会让人惨不忍睹，且它即将发生，在我们有生之年必然会来临。但是我们有能力战胜任何挑战。
en:We are in danger, all of us,and we&#39;ve evolved to respond to danger with fearto motivate a powerful response,to help us bravely face a threat.But this time it&#39;s not a tiger at the cave mouth.You can&#39;t see the danger at your door.But if you look,you can see it at the door of your civilization.That&#39;s why we need to feel our response now while the lights are still on,because if we wait until the crisis takes hold,we may panic and hide.If we feel it now and think it through,we will realize we have nothing to fearbut fear itself.Yes, things will get ugly, and it will happen soon —certainly in our lifetime —but we are more than capableof getting through everything that&#39;s coming.
时间：12:04
zh-cn:那些信念坚定的人相信人类能够解决一切难题，相信科技的潜力无限，相信市场能够扭转困境，他们都是对的。他们只是没有意识到我们往往是由一场危机来推动社会的前进。当面临恐惧，害怕失败时，我们就可能化腐朽为神奇。以战争为例。珍珠港被袭之后仅过了四天政府就下令禁止民用车的生产，将资源配置从汽车生产转向粮食和能源配给。再想想一家公司是如何应对破产威胁的。一个看似不可能发生的变化是如何最终实现的。一个人得知自己身患绝症时是如何面对的。之前那些顽固的生活作风是如何变得不那么难改的。
en:You see, those people that have faiththat humans can solve any problem,that technology is limitless, that markets can be a force for good,are in fact right.The only thing they&#39;re missingis that it takes a good crisis to get us going.When we feel fear and we fear losswe are capable of quite extraordinary things.Think about war.After the bombing of Pearl Harbor, it just took four daysfor the government to ban the production of civilian carsand to redirect the auto industry,and from there to rationing of food and energy.Think about how a company responds to a bankruptcy threatand how a change that seemed impossible just gets done.Think about how an individual respondsto a diagnosis of a life-threatening illnessand how lifestyle changesthat previously were just too difficultsuddenly become relatively easy.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:我们很聪明。其实我们非常了不起。但是，我们的确需要一场醒世的危机。好消息是，现在这场危机可是个大家伙。（众人笑）当然，如果我们失败了，那就欣然接受文明的末日。但如果我们成功了，那就将创造新文明的开始。你可以告诉自己的孙子孙女，这里面也有你的一份力。那多酷！
en:We are smart, in fact, we really are quite amazing,but we do love a good crisis.And the good news, this one&#39;s a monster.(Laughter)Sure, if we get it wrong,we could face the end of this civilization,but if we get it right,it could be the beginning of civilization instead.And how cool would it beto tell your grandchildren that you were part of that?
时间：13:25
zh-cn:技术和经济方面的阻碍根本不存在。包括詹姆士.汉森在内的科学家告诉我们，我们可能需要几十年的时间来消除经济中的二氧化碳排放。我想弄清楚如何才能实现这个目标。于是，我与挪威的约根.兰德斯教授合作去找答案。我们制定了一个计划，名为“一度战争计划”。这个名字是根据它所需的流动性和重视度得出的。出乎意料的是在二十年内消除经济中的二氧化碳净排放其实挺容易的，代价也不高。虽说代价也不是特别低，但总比文明毁灭的代价小得多。我们没算得那么精确，但我们知道文明毁灭的代价绝对不小。你们可以细读这个研究。总而言之，我们可以改变我们的经济。我们通过可靠的技术就能做到。我们不需花太高代的价就能做到。我们通过现有的政治体制就能做到。我们唯一需要改变的就是思维和感受的方式。这就是你们的切入点。
en:There&#39;s certainly no technical or economic barrier in the way.Scientists like James Hansen tell uswe may need to eliminate net CO2 emissions from the economyin just a few decades.I wanted to know what that would take,so I worked with professor Jorgen Randers from Norwayto find the answer.We developed a plan called &quot;The One Degree War Plan&quot; —so named because of the level of mobilization and focus required.To my surprise,eliminating net CO2 emissions from the economy in just 20 yearsis actually pretty easy and pretty cheap,not very cheap,but certainly less than the cost of a collapsing civilization.We didn&#39;t calculate that precisely,but we understand that&#39;s very expensive.You can read the details,but in summary, we can transform our economy.We can do it with proven technology.We can do it at an affordable cost.We can do it with existing political structures.The only thing we need to changeis how we think and how we feel.And this is where you come in.
时间：14:28
zh-cn:当想到我所描述的未来时，我们当然应该感到有些恐惧。但恐惧会使我们畏首畏尾，也会使我们奋勇前行。我们必须面对恐惧，然后采取行动。未来取决于我们的行动。我们必须采取行动因为我们只有一个地球。我们会成功的。那些信奉自由市场的人会说，提高增长、加大生产，让九十亿人消费就是我们最好的选择。他们错了。我们能做的比这多得多。自一万多年前，从人类学会了种植粮食开始，我们取得了令人叹为观止的丰功伟迹。我们建立了科学、知识和技术的强大根基，足以建设一个社会让九十亿人过上美满充实的生活。地球负担得起，只要我们选对道路。
en:When we think about the future I paint,of course we should feel a bit of fear.But fear can be paralyzing or motivating.We need to accept the fear and then we need to act.We need to actlike the future depends on it.We need to act like we only have one planet.We can do this.I know the free market fundamentalists will tell youthat more growth, more stuff and nine billion people going shoppingis the best we can do.They&#39;re wrong.We can be more,we can be much more.We have achieved remarkable thingssince working out how to grow food some 10,000 years ago.We&#39;ve built a powerful foundationof science, knowledge and technology —more than enough to build a societywhere nine billion peoplecan lead decent, meaningful and satisfying lives.The Earth can support thatif we choose the right path.
时间：15:24
zh-cn:我们可以利用此刻的危机，解答社会演变的重大问题。就好比，当我们还年少懵懂，以为可以恣意妄为，幻想能够永垂不朽；但经过这一时期，我们成年之后想成为什么样的人呢？现在就是该成熟的时候了。要变得更智慧、更冷静、更有思想。正如我们的先辈一样，我们将在战争中成长——这不是一场不同文明之间的战争，而是一场保卫人类文明的战争。我们要争取绝佳的机遇，创造一个更强、更美好、更具生命力的成熟社会。
en:We can choose this moment of crisisto ask and answer the big questions of society&#39;s evolution —like, what do we want to be when we grow up,when we move past this bumbling adolescencewhere we think there are no limitsand suffer delusions of immortality?Well it&#39;s time to grow up,to be wiser, to be calmer,to be more considered.Like generations before us,we&#39;ll be growing up in war —not a war between civilizations,but a war for civilization,for the extraordinary opportunityto build a societywhich is stronger and happierand plans on staying aroundinto middle age.
时间：16:05
zh-cn:我们能够战胜恐惧，找到生机。我们有能力采取必要的行动，但这需要每一位企业家、每一位艺术家、每一位科学家、每一位传播者、每一位母亲、每一位父亲、每一个孩子，每一个人的努力。这将是我们的决战时刻。
en:We can choose life over fear.We can do what we need to do,but it will take every entrepreneur,every artist,every scientist, every communicator,every mother, every father, every child,every one of us.This could be our finest hour.
时间：16:26
zh-cn:感谢各位。
en:Thank you.
时间：16:28
zh-cn:（众人鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
