时间： 0:11
zh-cn:2007年我觉得我们需要重新定义我们意识中的经济发展的概念。我们新目标应该致力于当每个家庭考虑他们想住和工作的地方的时候他们能有至少5个不同的可以选择有竞争力吸引新住户的城市。对于这个目标我们还有很长的路要走。在发展中国家有几十亿的人处于没有一个城市愿意接纳他们的阶段。但是城市的惊人之处在于它的利用价值要比建造消耗价值要多的多。所以我们能很轻松的为世界建造几十，或者上百的新城。
en:In 2007,I decided that we needed to reconceptualizehow we thought about economic development.Our new goal should bethat when every family thinks about where they want to live and work,they should be able to choose betweenat least a handfulof different citiesthat were all competing to attract new residents.Now we&#39;re a long way away from that goal right now.There are billions of people in developing countrieswho don&#39;t have even a single city that would be willing to welcome them.But the amazing thing about citiesis they&#39;re worth so much morethan it costs to build them.So we could easily supply the worldwith dozens, maybe hundreds,of new cities.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:你可能觉得这听起来很荒谬如果你从来没有考虑过新城。但是这只是替代城市的住宅建筑而已。想象下半数的想住在公寓的人已经入住了；另外半数还没有入住。你可以加盖已有的住宅来试着扩大面积。但是你知道你经手的住宅和周边地块是受法律保护保证其舒适性的和娱乐性的建筑。做这些加盖是十分的困难的。但是你能在未开发的地区建设一幢新的大楼，就像俗话说的重新开始强过停滞不前。所以我提议政府划定新的足够容纳城市的地域并起名为：宪章城市。
en:Now this might sound preposterous to youif you&#39;ve never thought about new cities.But just substitute apartment building for cities.Imagine half the people who wanted to be in apartments already had them;the other half aren&#39;t there yet.You could try and expand the capacityby doing additions on all the existing apartments.But you know what you&#39;d run intois those apartments and the surrounding areashave rules to avoid discomfortand the distractions of construction.So it&#39;s extremely hard to do all of those additions.But you could go out someplace brand new,build a brand new apartment building,as long as the rules therewere ones that facilitated constructionrather than getting in the way.So I proposedthat governments create new reform zonesbig enough to hold citiesand gave them a name: charter cities.
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:大约我了解这些的同时，哈维尔和奥克塔维奥正在思考在洪都拉斯重新规划的问题。据说大约每年7万5千洪都拉斯人移民到美国他们想问，他们能做什么来确保能让这些人留下来在洪都拉斯做同样的工作，生活下来。有一次，哈维尔对奥克塔维奥说“如果我们把我们闲置的土地—如果我们把它送给大使馆会怎么样—一些给美国大使馆；一些给加拿大大使馆—届时如果想在加拿大或者美国规则下本土找工作的话他们就能找到工作，在这些大使馆本土地区做工作否则就得去加拿大或美国找工作？”
en:Later I learned that at about this same time,Javier and Octaviowere thinking about the challenge of reformin Honduras.They knew that about 75,000 Hondurans every yearwould leave to go to the United States,and they wanted to ask, what could they doto make sure that those people could stayand do the same things in Honduras.At one point, Javier said to Octavio,&quot;What if we took some of our empty land —what if we just gave it to an embassy —give some to the U.S. embassy; give some to the Canadian embassy —and then if people want to go workunder the rules of Canada or under the rules of the United States,they can go get jobs,do everything they do on those embassy groundsthat they would otherwise have to go to Canada or the U.S. to do?&quot;
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:2009年夏天洪都拉斯经历了一次铁血的军事政变。在下一届例行选举中佩佩·洛沃凭借选举演讲上许诺改革以及和谈赢得了压倒性的优势。他邀请奥克塔维奥作为他的参谋长。同时，我在准备一个TEDGlobal上的演讲。通过一系列的改良试错，大量用户的测试我试着把这宪章城市复杂的概念压缩成最基本的精华。第一点是法令的重要性，就像法令所说的你不能骚扰已经入住的住户一样。我们关注新的科技但是新科技需要技术和要求来执行。通常是这些要求拖我们的后腿。
en:In the summer of 2009,Honduras went through a wrenching constitutional crisis.At the next regularly scheduled election,Pepe Lobo won in a landslideon a platform that promised reform,but reconciliation as well.He asked Octavio to be his chief of staff.Meanwhile, I was getting readyto give a talk at TEDGlobal.Through a process of refinement,trial and error, a lot of user testing,I tried to boil this complicated concept of charter citydown to the bare essentials.The first point was the importance of rules,like those rules that sayyou can&#39;t come in and disturb all the existing apartment holders.We pay a lot of attention to new technologies,but it takes technologies and rules to get progress,and it&#39;s usually the rules that hold us back.
时间： 3:17
zh-cn:在2010年秋，一个危地马拉的朋友发给奥克塔维奥这个TEDTalk的链接。他把它展示给哈维尔他们打给我电话说，“让我们把这个展示给我们总统吧。”12月我们就在迈阿密在一个宾馆的会议室碰了面。我试着解释这些城市的价值所在以及相比它的消耗它的价值会有多少。我用这张幻灯片展示了像纽约这块地区一块未开发地块的价值。注意，在某些点，地价要每平方米几千美金。但是这是一个大致的抽象的讨论当某些间隙的时候奥克塔维奥说，“保罗，也许我们可以观看TEDTalk。”
en:In the fall of 2010, a friend from Guatemalasent Octavio a link to the TEDTalk.He showed it to Javier.They called me.They said, &quot;Let&#39;s present this to the leaders of our country.&quot;So in December we met in Miami,in a hotel conference room.I tried to explain this pointabout how valuable cities are,how much more valuable they are than they cost.And I used this slideshowing how valuable the raw land isin a place like New York City:notice, land that&#39;s worth thousands of dollars, in some cases,per square meter.But it was a fairly abstract discussion,and at some point when there was a pause,Octavio said,&quot;Paul, maybe we could watch the TEDTalk.&quot;
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Laughing)
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:TEDTalk用简单的方式就讲明了宪章城市是一个起始于无人居住的地域，宪章细化了执行的条例也是人们选择是否入住是否生活在这些条例下的一个机会。洪都拉斯总统向我提问那个表态说我们需要这个项目的人这是关键这会是引领我们国家前进的道路。我被邀请造访特古西加尔巴在1月4日，5日重述此项目。我展示了另外一个包括了这张幻灯片的案例课试着讲述这个观点，如果你想在城市创造巨大价值的话它必须也是很巨大的。这是丹佛市的照片高亮出的是丹佛新建的机场。单这机场就占地超过100平方千米。我试着说服洪都拉斯总统如果你要建一座新城你就要在至少1000平方千米的区域入手。这要比2500万英亩还大。每个人都很有礼貌地鼓着掌。观众的表情都是严肃而警惕的。大会主席走到台前说“罗摩教授，很感谢你的讲课但也许我们能看看TEDTalk。我笔记本上现在就有。”于是我坐下，他们则看起了TEDTalk。
en:So the TEDTalk laid out in very simple terms,a charter city is a placewhere you start with uninhabited land,a charter that specifies the rules that will apply thereand then a chance for people to opt in,to go live under those rules or not.So I was asked by the president of Honduraswho said that we need to do this project,this is important,this could be the way forward for our country.I was asked to come to Tegucigalpaand talk again on January fourth and fifth.So I presentedanother fact-filled lecturethat included a slide like this,which tried to make the point that, if you want to create a lot of value in a city,it has to be very big.This is a picture of Denver,and the outline is the new airport that was built in Denver.This airport alonecovers more than 100 square kilometers.So I was trying to persuade the Hondurans,if you build a new city,you&#39;ve got to start with a site that&#39;s at least 1,000 square kilometers.That&#39;s more than 250 hundred-thousand acres.Everybody applauded politely.The faces in the audiencewere very serious and attentive.The leader of the congress came up on stage and said,&quot;Professor Romer, thank you very much for your lecture,but maybe we could watch the TEDTalk.I&#39;ve got it here on my laptop.&quot;So I sat down, and they played the TEDTalk.
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:它同时也抓住了精髓就是新的城市带给了人们新的选择。这是一个你会前往城市的选择也许在洪都拉斯而不是几百公里远的北方。它也给了领导者新的选择。因为洪都拉斯政府的领导需要友国的帮助那些从友国中获得利益那些帮助他们设定并实行宪章中的条例来让每个人都会相信宪章实际上会得到实行。总统洛沃的领悟就是对实行能力的保证我认为作为一个吸引外商投资建造的城市的方法应该和洪都拉斯经历了多年恐惧和怀疑的不同党派一样的重要。
en:And it got to the essence,which is that a new city could offer new choices for people.There would be a choice of a city which you could go towhich could be in Honduras,instead of hundreds of miles away in the North.And it also involved new choices for leaders.Because the leaders in the government there in Honduraswould need help from partner countries,who could benefit from partner countrieswho help them set up the rules in this charter and the enforcement,so everybody can trustthat the charter really will be enforced.And the insight of President Lobowas that that assurance of enforcementthat I was thinking aboutas a way to get the foreign investors to come in and build the citycould be equally important for all the different parties in Honduraswho had suffered for so many yearsfrom fear and distrust.
时间： 6:17
zh-cn:我们实地考察了那块地区。这是那里的一张照片。这能轻易容纳一千平方千米。之后不久，1月19日他们在国会中投票修改了宪法来提供一个法律的支持来许可特定的发展地区。在刚经历过政变的这个国家国会上赞成宪法修正案的票数是124比1。社会上派系，所有党派都支持这修正案。作为宪法的一部分，你实际需要在国会上通过两次。在2月17日他们以114比1再次通过了法案。
en:We went and looked at a site.This picture&#39;s from there.It easily could hold a thousand square kilometers.And shortly thereafter, on January 19th,they voted in the congress to amend their constitutionto have a constitutional provisionthat allows for special development regions.In a country which had just gone through this wrenching crisis,the vote in the congress in favor of this constitutional amendmentwas 124 to one.All parties, all factions in society, backed this.To be part of the constitution, you actually have to pass it twice in the congress.On February 17th they passed it againwith another vote of 114 to one.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:立刻在投票之后2月21到24日大约30个人的洪都拉斯代表团来到了世上两个建筑业最感兴趣的两个地方。一个是韩国。这是一张韩国将建成的大型的，新市中心—比波士顿商业区还大。所有你看到的刚建设了4年但他们得到许可来建设就花费了4年。另外一个吸引建筑业的是新加坡。他们实际上已经在中国建设了两个新城并准备建第三个。
en:Immediately after that vote,on February 21st to the 24th,a delegation of about 30 Honduranswent to the two places in the worldthat are most interested in getting into the city building business.One is South Korea.This is a picture of a big, new city centerthat&#39;s being built in South Korea —bigger than downtown Boston.Everything you see there was built in four years,after they spent four years getting the permits.The other place that&#39;s very interested in city building is Singapore.They&#39;ve actually built two cities already in Chinaand are preparing the third.
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:如果你理性地考虑这个的话这就是我们当下处境。他们有了地块，并已经考虑把它建设成第二城市。他们正步入一个法定的程序来允许管理人员介入同时也有个外加的法律系统。一个国家已经自愿让最高法院为了这新的司法体系而成为最终上诉申请的法院。这是对其感兴趣的城市设计师和建筑师而言。这些甚至能带给他们一些经济支持。但是有一件你了解的早被解决的事是有很多的佃户。有很多商家意向进驻美国特别进驻到自由交易区也有很多人想去那里。全世界，有7亿人想立刻永久的移民到某些其他地方。
en:So if you think about this practically,here&#39;s where we are.They&#39;ve got a site; they&#39;re already thinking about this site for the second city.They&#39;re putting in place a legal systemthat could allow for managers to come in,and also an external legal system.One country has already volunteered to let its supreme courtbe the court of final appeal for the new judicial system there.There&#39;s designers and builders of citieswho are very interested.They even can bring with them some financing.But the one thing you know they&#39;ve already solvedis that there&#39;s lots of tenants.There&#39;s lots of businesses that would like to locate in the Americas,especially in a place with a free trade zone,and there&#39;s lots of people who&#39;d like to go there.Around the world, there&#39;s 700 million peoplewho say they&#39;d like to move permanently someplace else right now.
时间： 8:08
zh-cn:每年100万人从拉丁美洲前往美国。其中很多是远离家庭的来寻找工作的父亲—有时是单亲妈妈来赚钱为了衣食生计。可悲的是，有时甚至是孩子尝试着为了和很久未见的父母有些时候，数十年，他们才团聚。
en:There&#39;s a million a yearwho leave Latin America to go to the United States.Many of these are a fatherwho has to leave his family behind to go get a job —sometimes a single motherwho has to get enough money to even pay for food or clothing.Sadly, sometimes there are even childrenwho are trying to get reunited with their parentsthat they haven&#39;t seen, in some cases, for a decade.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:这是个怎么样的愿景来考虑在洪都拉斯建立一个新城？或者建立十几个新城或者全世界建立几百个新城？这又是个怎么样的愿景来考虑坚持每个家庭都有数个具有竞争力吸引新住户的城市的选择？这是一个值得传播的观点。我的洪都拉斯的朋友让我来说声感谢，TED。
en:So what kind of an idea is itto think about building a brand new city in Honduras?Or to build a dozen of these,or a hundred of these, around the world?What kind of an idea is itto think about insistingthat every family have a choice of several citiesthat are competing to attract new residents?This is an idea worth spreading.And my friends from Hondurasasked me to say thank you, TED.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
