时间： 0:11
zh-cn:人类有没有什么独特之处？有。我们是唯一具备完善的道德情感的生物。作为一种社会种群，我们浑身上下都充斥着道德的影子。我们需要知道为什么人们做一件事，还有他们正在做什么。我个人对道德很感兴趣。一切都是因为这个女人，修女Mary Marastela，同时也是我的母亲。我是一个在香火缭绕的神台旁长大的男孩，我会用拉丁文说一些短语，但我有时会想我妈妈的那套自上而下的道德标准是不是适用于所有人。我发现无论是信神的或者不信的人，都对道德很感兴趣。我觉得有关道德的决定可能是建立在某些更本质的基础上。但是我想做更深一步了解而不仅仅满足于“大脑让我们有道德”这种说法。我想知道是不是存在一种道德的化学物质。我想知道是不是有道德分子。
en:Is there anything unique about human beings?There is.We&#39;re the only creatureswith fully developed moral sentiments.We&#39;re obsessed with morality as social creatures.We need to know why people are doing what they&#39;re doing.And I personally am obsessed with morality.It was all due to this woman,Sister Mary Marastela,also known as my mom.As an altar boy, I breathed in a lot of incense,and I learned to say phrases in Latin,but I also had time to thinkabout whether my mother&#39;s top-down moralityapplied to everybody.I saw that people who were religious and non-religiouswere equally obsessed with morality.I thought, maybe there&#39;s some earthly basisfor moral decisions.But I wanted to go furtherthan to say our brains make us moral.I want to know if there&#39;s a chemistry of morality.I want to knowif there was a moral molecule.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:经历了10年的实验，我找到了道德分子。你们想看么？我带了一些过来。这个小的针筒里面有道德分子。笑声它叫做催产素。催产素是一种简单并且古老的分子，只有在哺乳动物中才能发现。在啮齿动物中，催产素促使妈妈照顾它们的幼崽，在一些动物中，催产素让它们彼此之间称兄道弟。但是在人类体内，催产素已知的作用仅局限于促进女性生育和哺乳的能力，以及在性交过程中，双方都释放催产素。
en:After 10 years of experiments,I found it.Would you like to see it? I brought some with me.This little syringecontains the moral molecule.(Laughter)It&#39;s called oxytocin.So oxytocin is a simple and ancient moleculefound only in mammals.In rodents, it was knownto make mothers care for their offspring,and in some creatures,allowed for toleration of burrowmates.But in humans, it was only knownto facilitate birth and breastfeeding in women,and is released by both sexes during sex.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:所以我有这个想法：催产素可能是道德分子。我做了很多人都会做的事情：我用一些我的同事做试验。其中一个告诉我，“Paul, 这是世界上最愚蠢的想法，”他说，“催产素只是一种女性分子，它不重要。”但是我反驳说，男性的脑子里同样产生这个。这其中肯定有原因。”但是他是正确的，这确实是个愚蠢的想法。但是只是在经过试验后。换句话说，我觉得我可以设计一个试验，关于催产素是否可以让人们变得更道德。
en:So I had this idea that oxytocin might be the moral molecule.I did what most of us do — I tried it on some colleagues.One of them told me,&quot;Paul, that is the world&#39;s stupidist idea.It is,&quot; he said, &quot;only a female molecule.It can&#39;t be that important.&quot;But I countered, &quot;Well men&#39;s brains make this too.There must be a reason why.&quot;But he was right, it was a stupid idea.But it was testably stupid.In other words, I thought I could design an experimentto see if oxytocin made people moral.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:结果发现这个试验不是很简单。首先，催产素很害羞。分泌量接近0，如果没有任何刺激促进它分泌的话。一旦产生，它只有3分钟的半衰期，在室温下，它衰减很快。所以这个试验必须产生大量催产素。同时迅速探测到它，并且用低温冷藏它。我觉得我可以做到。幸运的是，催产素在脑子和血液里都会被产生。所以我可以不用学习神经外科就可以做这个试验。接下来我必须测量道德。
en:Turns out it wasn&#39;t so easy.First of all, oxytocin is a shy molecule.Baseline levels are near zero,without some stimulus to cause its release.And when it&#39;s produced, it has a three-minute half-life,and degrades rapidly at room temperature.So this experiment would have to cause a surge of oxytocin,have to grab it fast and keep it cold.I think I can do that.Now luckily, oxytocin is producedboth in the brain and in the blood,so I could do this experiment without learning neurosurgery.Then I had to measure morality.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:把整个道德转变为一个M变量，是个很艰巨的工作。所以我从小处开始。我仅研究一种美德：信任感。为什么呢？我在21世纪初时发现，一个国家，信赖度高的民众的比例越高，就更繁荣。在这些国家，进行着更多的贸易，因而产生更多的财富，减轻贫困。所以贫困的国家通常是低信任度的国家。如果我能理解信任度的秘密，我也许能帮助消除贫困。
en:So taking on Morality with a capital M is a huge project.So I started smaller.I studied one single virtue:trustworthiness.Why? I had shown in the early 2000sthat countries with a higher proportion of trustworthy peopleare more prosperous.So in these countries, more economic transactions occurand more wealth is created,alleviating poverty.So poor countries are by and large low trust countries.So if I understood the chemistry of trustworthiness,I might help alleviate poverty.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:但我同时持怀疑态度。我不想仅仅问人，“你值得信赖么？”所以我改用Jerry Maguire的研究方法。如果你太高尚了，那就给我钱吧！所以在我的实验室里，我们用道德和金钱引诱人们。让我来解释一下我们是如何做的。我们召集一些人来做实验。他们只要来，就能得到10块钱。我们给他们很多很多指示，我们从未误导他们。然后我们用电脑对他们进行配对。每一对中，有一个人会收到一条信息说，“你是否愿意放弃你所得的10块钱的一部分，把它送给这个实验室里的另一个人？”有趣的是，你不能看到任何人，也不能和任何人说话。你只需要做一次选择。你所放弃的这部分，会翻3倍出现在另一个人的账户里。你将使他们一下子富裕很多。他们将会收到另一条消息说，有一个人愿意分给你这么多钱，你是否愿意全部留着，或者你愿意归还一部分？
en:But I&#39;m also a skeptic.I don&#39;t want to just ask people, &quot;Are you trustworthy?&quot;So instead I usethe Jerry Maguire approach to research.If you&#39;re so virtuous,show me the money.So what we do in my labis we tempt people with virtue and vice by using money.Let me show you how we do that.So we recruit some people for an experiment.They all get $10 if they agree to show up.We give them lots of instruction, and we never ever deceive them.Then we match them in pairs by computer.And in that pair, one person gets a message saying,&quot;Do you want to give up some of your $10you earned for being hereand ship it to someone else in the lab?&quot;The trick is you can&#39;t see them,you can&#39;t talk to them.You only do it one time.Now whatever you give upgets tripled in the other person&#39;s account.You&#39;re going to make them a lot wealthier.And they get a message by computer sayingperson one sent you this amount of money.Do you want to keep it all,or do you want to send some amount back?
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:所以我们来回想一下整个实验。你坐在硬板凳上足足1个半小时。一些疯狂的科学家用针管扎进你的胳膊，抽出四管儿血样。你竟然希望我放弃一部分钱，并且送给一个陌生人？由此诞生了吸血鬼经济学。做一个决定，给我一点血。
en:So think about this experiment for minute.You&#39;re going to sit on these hard chairs for an hour and a half.Some mad scientist is going to jab your arm with a needleand take four tubes of blood.And now you want me to give up this money and ship it to a stranger?So this was the birth of vampire economics.Make a decision and give me some blood.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:所以实际上，实验经济学家在世界各地进行这样的实验，不惜牺牲大量的资金，并且一致的观点是，第一个人转给第二个人的资金数额测量了信任，而第二个人转给第一个人的资金数额则测量了可信赖度。事实上，让经济学家十分困惑的是，第二个人怎么会选择归还一个子儿？他们假设钱是一种好的商品，那又为什么不留着呢？
en:So in fact, experimental economistshad run this test around the world,and for much higher stakes,and the consensus viewwas that the measure from the first person to the second was a measure of trust,and the transfer from the second person back to the firstmeasured trustworthiness.But in fact, economists were flummoxedon why the second person would ever return any money.They assumed money is good,why not keep it all?
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:我们的实验结果表明，90%的人选择分享所得的报酬，那些接纳者中，95%的人选择归还一部分。但这又是为什么？通过测量催产素水平，我们发现，第二个人收到的钱越多，他们的大脑生产催产素就越卖力，而催产素水平越高，他们归还的钱就越多。因此我们获得了可信赖度的生理机制。
en:That&#39;s not what we found.We found 90 percent of the first decision-makers sent money,and of those who received money,95 percent returned some of it.But why?Well by measuring oxytocinwe found that the more money the second person received,the more their brain produced oxytocin,and the more oxytocin on board,the more money they returned.So we have a biology of trustworthiness.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:但是等等。这个实验有什么不对的地方吗？有两点。第一，人体中没有一个现象是独立发生的。为此我们测量了另外九种与催产素存在相互作用的分子，这些分子被证实，对实验没有任何影响。然而第二点，即，我目前只掌握了催产素与可信赖度的间接关系。我并不能百分百地确定是催产素直接导致可信赖度的产生。因此为了完善这个实验，我明白我必须进入大脑，并且直接操纵催产素。我绞尽脑汁，尝试把催产素弄进了我自己的脑袋。我发现，我可以通过鼻腔吸入催产素。于是我和苏黎世的同事们一起，我们对200位实验者使用催产素，或安慰剂，进行与之前完全相同的金钱及信任度测试，我们发现，被使用催产素的测试者，不仅表现出更强的信任度，我们甚至让愿意把钱给陌生人的人数翻了一倍之多 —所有人的情绪及认知都没有任何变动。
en:But wait. What&#39;s wrong with this experiment?Two things.One is that nothing in the body happens in isolation.So we measured nine other molecules that interact with oxytocin,but they didn&#39;t have any effect.But the second isthat I still only had this indirect relationshipbetween oxytocin and trustworthiness.I didn&#39;t know for sureoxytocin caused trustworthiness.So to make the experiment,I knew I&#39;d have to go into the brainand manipulate oxytocin directly.I used everything short of a drillto get oxytocin into my own brain.And I found I could do itwith a nasal inhaler.So along with colleagues in Zurich,we put 200 men on oxytocin or placebo,had that same trust test with money,and we found that those on oxytocin not only showed more trust,we can more than double the number of peoplewho sent all their money to a stranger —all without altering mood or cognition.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:由此我们确认，催产素就是信任分子。但它是否是道德分子？我们使用催产素吸入装置，进行了更多的实验。我们发现吸入催产素会增加人的慷慨程度，在单向的金钱往来中，人们的慷慨程度增加了80%。我们发现它同时也使慈善捐赠增加了50%。我们也对非药理方式提高催产素水平进行了探索。包括按摩，跳舞以及祈祷。没错，我妈妈对最后一项特别满意。而且，无论何时我们提高了催产素的水平，人们都变得更乐意打开他们的钱包，与陌生人分享他们的钞票。
en:So oxytocin is the trust molecule,but is it the moral molecule?Using the oxytocin inhaler,we ran more studies.We showed that oxytocin infusionincreases generosityin unilateral monetary transfersby 80 percent.We showed it increases donations to charityby 50 percent.We&#39;ve also investigatednon-pharmacologic ways to raise oxytocin.These include massage,dancing and praying.Yes, my mom was happy about that last one.And whenever we raise oxytocin,people willingly open up their walletsand share money with strangers.
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:但是为什么他们会这样呢？当你的大脑荡漾着满满的催产素的时候，到底是什么感觉呢？为了探索这个问题，我们又进行了一个实验。在这个试验中，我们让参与者看一个短片，有关一位父亲和他四岁的儿子，儿子身患致命的脑癌。在看完短片后，我们让参与者评估了他们的感受，并在看短片前后分别采血检测了催产素水平。催产素水平的变化，完美地预示了参与者同情感的变化。正是这种同情，让我们与其他人紧密相连。是同情让我们去帮助他人。是同情让我们变得有道德感。
en:But why do they do this?What does it feel likewhen your brain is flooded with oxytocin?To investigate this question, we ran an experimentwhere we had people watch a videoof a father and his four year-old son,and his son has terminal brain cancer.After they watched the video, we had them rate their feelingsand took blood before and after to measure oxytocin.The change in oxytocinpredicted their feelings of empathy.So it&#39;s empathythat makes us connect to other people.It&#39;s empathy that makes us help other people.It&#39;s empathy that makes us moral.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:这个想法并非最近才提出来的。哲学家亚当·史密斯在1759年，写了一本书，当时他还未声名大噪。书名为《道德情操论》。在这本书中，史密斯谈到，我们之所以成为有道德感的生物，并非因为某些自上而下的原因，而恰恰是因为一个自下而上的原因。他认为我们都是社会性的生物，因此我们分享他人的情感。所以如果我做了一些伤害你的事，我会感到痛苦。所以我才会希望能避免这类事的发生。如果我做了一些让你快乐的事，我也会分享你的快乐。所以我会更愿意去做这类事。就是这位亚当·史密斯，17年后写了一本小书，叫《国富论》-堪称经济学的奠基之作。但是实际上，他是一位道德哲学家，他关于我们为何有道德的论点，是正确的。而我发现的正是这个理论背后的分子。现在我们了解了这种分子的价值，其价值在于它告诉我们如何激发这类行为，以及如何不起作用。尤其是，它告诉我们为什么我们会看到不道德的存在。
en:Now this idea is not new.A then unknown philosopher named Adam Smithwrote a book in 1759called &quot;The Theory of Moral Sentiments.&quot;In this book, Smith arguedthat we are moral creatures, not because of a top-down reason,but for a bottom-up reason.He said we&#39;re social creatures,so we share the emotions of others.So if I do something that hurts you, I feel that pain.So I tend to avoid that.If I do something that makes you happy, I get to share your joy.So I tend to do those things.Now this is the same Adam Smith who, 17 years later,would write a little book called &quot;The Wealth of Nations&quot; —the founding document of economics.But he was, in fact, a moral philosopher,and he was right on why we&#39;re moral.I just found the molecule behind it.But knowing that molecule is valuable,because it tells us how to turn up this behaviorand what turns it off.In particular, it tells uswhy we see immorality.
时间： 8:50
zh-cn:因此为了探索不道德，让我带你们回到1980年。我当时在一间加油站工作，在加州圣巴巴拉市的郊区。你一整天都坐在加油站里，我告诉你们，你将看到大量道德的、以及不道德的存在。一个周日的下午，一个男人走进我的收费亭，他手上拿着一个精美的珠宝盒。打开盒子，里面是一串珍珠项链。他说，“嗨，我刚在男洗手间，发现了这个。你觉得我们该怎么处理它？”“我不知道，交到遗失物品柜台去吧。”“这玩意儿一定很值钱。我们必须找到失主。”我说，“是吧。”
en:So to investigate immorality,let me bring you back now to 1980.I&#39;m working at a gas stationon the outskirts of Santa Barbara, California.You sit in a gas station all day,you see lots of morality and immorality, let me tell you.So one Sunday afternoon, a man walks into my cashier&#39;s boothwith this beautiful jewelry box.Opens it up and there&#39;s a pearl necklace inside.And he said, &quot;Hey, I was in the men&#39;s room.I just found this. What do you think we should do with it?&quot;&quot;I don&#39;t know, put it in the lost and found.&quot;&quot;Well this is very valuable.We have to find the owner for this.&quot; I said, &quot;Yea.&quot;
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:于是我们一起商量该怎么处理它，就在这时，电话响了。一个男人很激动地说，“我刚才在你们的加油站，我刚给我的妻子买了一个首饰，可是我现在找不到了。”我说，“是珍珠项链吗？”“没错。”“刚才一位先生找到了它。”“噢，你真是救了我的命！这是我的电话号码。请告诉那位先生，等我半个小时。我会赶回去给他200美金的报酬。”棒极了，于是我告诉那位先生，“看吧，放松。你刚赢得了一份大奖。生活多美好。”他说，“我恐怕没办法做到了。我15分钟后在加利纳有一个面试，我真的需要这份工作，我得走了。”他再一次问我，“你觉得我们该怎么做？”我当时还在高中。我一头雾水。我说，“我帮你拿着吧。”他说，“你知道吗，你这么好，我们平分那份奖励吧。”我把项链给你，你给我100美金，那个人来的时候……”
en:So we&#39;re trying to decide what to do with this,and the phone rings.And a man says very excitedly,&quot;I was in your gas station a while ago,and I bought this jewelry for my wife, and I can&#39;t find it.&quot;I said, &quot;Pearl necklace?&quot; &quot;Yeah.&quot;&quot;Hey, a guy just found it.&quot;&quot;Oh, you&#39;re saving my life. Here&#39;s my phone number.Tell that guy to wait half an hour.I&#39;ll be there and I&#39;ll give him a $200 reward.&quot;Great, so I tell the guy, &quot;Look, relax.Get yourself a fat reward. Life&#39;s good.&quot;He said, &quot;I can&#39;t do it.I have this job interview in Galena in 15 minutes,and I need this job, I&#39;ve got to go.&quot;Again he asked me, &quot;What do you think we should do?&quot;I&#39;m in high school. I have no idea.So I said, &quot;I&#39;ll hold it for you.&quot;He said, &quot;You know, you&#39;ve been so nice, let&#39;s split the reward.&quot;I&#39;ll give you the jewelry, you give me a hundred dollars,and when the guy comes ... &quot;
时间：10:07
zh-cn:你看到了。我受骗了。这就是所谓的经典的“凑份子骗局”（pigeon drop），我就是那个可怜的受骗者。大部分类似的陷阱，都并非设陷阱的人试图获得受骗者的信任，而是设陷阱的人首先对受骗者表示信任。现在我们了解了事实真相。受骗者的大脑释放催产素，于是你打开你的钱包，乱送你的钞票。
en:You see it. I was conned.So this is a classic con called the pigeon drop,and I was the pigeon.So the way many cons workis not that the conman gets the victim to trust him,it&#39;s that he shows he trusts the victim.Now we know what happens.The victim&#39;s brain releases oxytocin,and you&#39;re opening up your wallet or purse, giving away the money.
时间：10:29
zh-cn:那到底是什么人，在控制我们的催产素生产系统？在对数千位受试者做检验后，我们发现，5%的人受到应激后不会释放催产素。也就是说，就算你对他们表示信任，他们的大脑也不会生产催产素。如果桌子上有一叠钱，他们会全部占为己有。在我的实验室里，这类人群有一个专属名字。我们称之为混蛋。（笑声）这些人，绝对不是你愿意与之一起喝一杯的那一类。他们身上存在许多由心理异常而带来的问题。
en:So who are these peoplewho manipulate our oxytocin systems?We found, testing thousands of individuals,that five percent of the populationdon&#39;t release oxytocin on stimulus.So if you trust them, their brains don&#39;t release oxytocin.If there&#39;s money on the table, they keep it all.So there&#39;s a technical word for these people in my lab.We call them bastards.(Laughter)These are not people you want to have a beer with.They have many of the attributes of psychopaths.
时间：11:02
zh-cn:另外，还有一些方式会抑制催产素的生产系统。其中之一就是不健康的成长过程。我们对曾遭受性虐的女性进行了调查，其中约一半的人受到应激时不会分泌催产素。为了让整个分泌系统发育完善，你的整个成长过程都需要健全的悉心照顾。另外，高压会抑制催产素的分泌。我们都知道，当我们真的压力很大时，我们都无法表现出自己最好的一面。
en:Now there are other ways the system can be inhibited.One is through improper nurturing.So we&#39;ve studied sexually abused women,and about half those don&#39;t release oxytocin on stimulus.You need enough nurturingfor this system to develop properly.Also, high stress inhibits oxytocin.So we all know this, when we&#39;re really stressed out,we&#39;re not acting our best.
时间：11:25
zh-cn:还有一种有趣的方式，会抑制催产素分泌 —-雄性激素的变化。我们在试验中对男性施用雄性激素。与分享金钱截然相反，他们变得很自私。但有趣的是，拥有高水平雄性激素的男人们，通常喜欢用他们自己的钱去惩罚其他自私的人。（笑声）现在让我们来想一想。在我们自己的身体内，我们拥有道德阴阳两面。我们拥有促使我们与他人连结的催产素，设身处地的为他人着想。我们也有雄性激素。男人们体内的雄性激素，是女人们的十倍之多。所以男人们比女人们更频繁地想要去惩罚那些行为不高尚的人。我们不需要上帝或政府来告诉我们怎么做。一切都早已根植在我们体内。
en:There&#39;s another way oxytocin is inhibited, which is interesting —through the action of testosterone.So we, in experiments, have administered testosterone to men.And instead of sharing money,they become selfish.But interestingly,high testosterone males are also more likelyto use their own money to punish others for being selfish.(Laughter)Now think about this. It means, within our own biology,we have the yin and yang of morality.We have oxytocin that connects us to others,makes us feel what they feel.And we have testosterone.And men have 10 times the testosterone as women,so men do this more than women —we have testosterone that makes us want to punishpeople who behave immorally.We don&#39;t need God or government telling us what to do.It&#39;s all inside of us.
时间：12:14
zh-cn:你可能会好奇：这些只是看上去很美的实验，它们真的能被应用在日常生活中吗？是的，我也曾为此而忧虑过。于是我走出实验室，想看看到底是什么构成了我们的每一天。去年夏天，我在英国南部参加了一场婚礼。200人聚集在这座美丽的维多利亚式小房子。我完全不认识这些人。我租了一辆沃克斯豪尔，开车前往。我拿出离心机和干冰，还有针筒和试管。我采集了新娘和新郎的血样，以及伴娘伴郎、家人朋友的血样，分别在宣誓之前和之后。
en:So you may be wondering:these are beautiful laboratory experiments,do they really apply to real life?Yeah, I&#39;ve been worrying about that too.So I&#39;ve gone out of the labto see if this really holds in our daily lives.So last summer, I attended a wedding in Southern England.200 people in this beautiful Victorian mansion.I didn&#39;t know a single person.And I drove up in my rented Vauxhall.And I took out a centrifuge and dry iceand needles and tubes.And I took blood from the bride and the groomand the wedding party and the family and the friendsbefore and immediately after the vows.
时间：12:46
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:48
zh-cn:你们猜猜怎样？婚礼提高了催产素的释放水平，其效果符合特定的分布。谁是这个婚礼太阳系的中心？新娘。她的催产素增长水平是最高的。谁和新娘一样，爱死了这个婚礼呢？她的妈妈，没错。她的妈妈名列第二位。其次是新郎的父亲，再次是新郎，然后是家人，然后是朋友们—围绕新娘呈放射状分布，正如行星环绕太阳。由此我在想，它告诉我们，我们设计了这样一种仪式将大家与新婚夫妇连结在一起，尤其是在情感上。为什么？因为我们需要他们成功地孕育后代，并且壮大我们的种群。
en:And guess what?Weddings cause a release of oxytocin,but they do so in a very particular way.Who is the center of the wedding solar system?The bride.She had the biggest increase in oxytocin.Who loves the wedding almost as much as the bride?Her mother, that&#39;s right.Her mother was number two.Then the groom&#39;s father, then the groom,then the family, then the friends —arrayed around the bridelike planets around the Sun.So I think it tells us that we&#39;ve designed this ritualto connect us to this new couple,connect us emotionally.Why? Because we need them to be successful at reproducingto perpetuate the species.
时间：13:29
zh-cn:我同样担心，我那些使用少量金钱的实验无法完全检验我们有多容易把自己的命交给陌生人。尽管我有恐高症，我最近还是把我自己交给了另一个人类，在12000英尺的高空，跨出了飞机。我在跳伞前后采集了自己的血样，我的催产素水平骤升。有太多方式可以将我们与他人连结在一起了。比如说，通过社交媒体。现在这么多人都在发微薄。我们研究了社交媒体的角色，发现使用社交媒体会使得催产素水平获得两位数的增长。
en:I also worried that my trust experiments with small amounts of moneydidn&#39;t really capture how often we actually trust our lives to strangers.So even though I have a fear of heights,I recently strapped myself to another human beingand stepped out of an airplane at 12,000 ft.I took my blood before and after,and I had a huge spike of oxytocin.And there are so many ways we can connect to people.For example, through social media.Many people are Tweeting right now.So we investigated the role of social mediaand found the using social mediaproduced a solid double-digit increase in oxytocin.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:我最近为韩国传媒系统做了这样一个实验。他们让记者和编辑参与这个实验。其中一个男孩，应该是22岁，他的催产素水平飙升了150%。我想说，太令人惊讶了；无人能敌。他当时正私下使用某种社交媒体。当我给韩国人写报告的时候，我说，“看看，我不知道这家伙到底在干嘛，不过我猜他应该在和他妈妈或者女朋友聊天。”他们去核实了。果不其然，他当时正在他女朋友facebook页面上聊得热火朝天。看，这就是一种连接。有太多太多方式，可以让我们与他人连结了，而且这些方式全世界都通用。
en:So I ran this experiment recently for the Korean Broadcasting System.And they had the reporters and their producers participate.And one of these guys, he must have been 22,he had 150 percent spike in oxytocin.I mean, astounding; no one has this.So he was using social media in private.When I wrote my report to the Koreans,I said, &quot;Look, I don&#39;t know what this guy was doing,&quot;but my guess was interacting with his mother or his girlfriend.They checked.He was interacting on his girlfriend&#39;s Facebook page.There you go. That&#39;s connection.So there&#39;s tons of ways that we can connect to other people,and it seems to be universal.
时间：14:37
zh-cn:两周前，我刚从巴布亚新几内亚回来，我去了那儿的高地 —与世隔绝的村庄，勉强谋生的农户，他们一千多年来的生活方式从未改变。这片高地上有800种不同的语言。这里生活着世界上最原始的人类。他们也不断地分泌着催产素。
en:Two weeks ago,I just got back from Papua New Guineawhere I went up to the highlands —very isolated tribes of subsistence farmersliving as they have lived for millenia.There are 800 different languages in the highlands.These are the most primitive people in the world.And they indeed also release oxytocin.
时间：14:58
zh-cn:催产素将我们与他人连结。催产素让我们对他人感同身受。让人类的大脑产生催产素，真是再简单不过了。我知道怎么做，这种做法也是我的最爱，其实很简单。让我来为你们展示一下。过来。给我一个拥抱。（笑声）就是这样。
en:So oxytocin connects us to other people.Oxytocin makes us feel what other people feel.And it&#39;s so easy to cause people&#39;s brainsto release oxytocin.I know how to do it,and my favorite way to do it is, in fact, the easiest.Let me show it to you.Come here. Give me a hug.(Laughter)There you go.
时间：15:26
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：15:35
zh-cn:我因为过分热衷于与人拥抱，获得了一个昵称，叫“博爱博士”。我非常高兴，能在这个地球上，分享这一点小小的爱。这感觉真棒，“博爱博士”给你的处方是：每天8个拥抱。我们发现，分泌催产素多的人，会更快乐。他们之所以更快乐，是因为他们全方位的人际关系都更健康。现在博爱博士告诉大家，一天8个拥抱。一日8拥抱 - 快乐何其多！这个世界也将变得更美好。当然了，如果你不喜欢和他人肢体接触，我也可以把这玩意儿搞到你的鼻里。
en:So my penchant for hugging other peoplehas earned me the nickname Dr. Love.I&#39;m happy to share a little more love in the world,it&#39;s great,but here&#39;s your prescription from Dr. Love:eight hugs a day.We have found that people who release more oxytocinare happier.And they&#39;re happierbecause they have better relationships of all types.Dr. Love says eight hugs a day.Eight hugs a day — you&#39;ll be happierand the world will be a better place.Of course, if you don&#39;t like to touch people, I can always shove this up your nose.
时间：16:07
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：16:09
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：16:11
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
