时间： 0:11
zh-cn:海洋大约覆盖了地球表面的70%。所以，我认为亚瑟·C·克拉克的说法很有可能是对的：他说过或许我们应该称地球为“海星”。海洋是很富饶的。就像这些卫星图像上显示的，到处都是光合作用，也就是新生命的迹象。事实上，海洋每天产生地球上一半的新生命以及大约半数我们呼吸的氧气。此外，它孕育着地球上的生物多样性，其中很多物种我们并不知道。今天，我要告诉你其中的一些。这甚至也不包括我们从海洋中提取出的全部蛋白质。那大约是全球需求的10%和一些岛屿国家需求的全部。
en:The oceans cover some 70 percent of our planet.And I think Arthur C. Clarke probably had it rightwhen he said that perhaps we ought to call our planetPlanet Ocean.And the oceans are hugely productive,as you can see by the satellite imageof photosynthesis, the production of new life.In fact, the oceans produce half of the new life every day on Earthas well as about half the oxygen that we breathe.In addition to that, it harbors a lot of the biodiversity on Earth,and much of it we don&#39;t know about.But I&#39;ll tell you some of that today.That also doesn&#39;t even get into the whole protein extractionthat we do from the ocean.That&#39;s about 10 percent of our global needsand 100 percent of some island nations.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:如果您要把范围缩小到可生存生物圈的95%，它将很快成为漆黑，只会有来自于发光生物的星星点点的光亮。但是如果打开灯，你可能会不时看到壮观的生物群游过，因为那些是深海的居民，是生活在深海的生物。最终，深海海床将映入眼帘。这种类型的栖息地所覆盖的地球表面比所有其它栖息地面积总和还要大。然而，我们对于月球和火星表面的了解要比对这种栖息地的了解更多，尽管我们从那些星球上尚未获取过哪怕一克食物，一口氧气或一滴水。
en:If you were to descendinto the 95 percent of the biosphere that&#39;s livable,it would quickly become pitch black,interrupted only by pinpoints of lightfrom bioluminescent organisms.And if you turn the lights on,you might periodically see spectacular organisms swim by,because those are the denizens of the deep,the things that live in the deep ocean.And eventually, the deep sea floor would come into view.This type of habitat covers more of the Earth&#39;s surfacethan all other habitats combined.And yet, we know more about the surface of the Moon and about Marsthan we do about this habitat,despite the fact that we have yet to extracta gram of food, a breath of oxygen or a drop of waterfrom those bodies.
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:十年前，一项被称为海洋生物普查的国际项目启动了尝试着提高我们对全球海洋生命的理解。它涉及了 世界各地的17个不同的项目。正如您所看到的，这些都是各个项目所留下的足迹。我希望您对海洋生物普查所力争实现的全球覆盖水平感到高兴。这一切都要从弗雷德·葛拉索和杰西 · 奥苏贝尔这两位科学家在马萨诸塞州的伍兹霍尔的会面开始，当时，两人都在当地著名的海洋研究所做客。弗雷德感叹海洋生物多样性的状态所造成的麻烦，以及当时还没有有效的解决措施。从那次讨论之后，这个项目开始实行。它包含来自世界各地80多个国家的2700名科学家他们从事了540次海洋探险经费超过六亿五千万美元。研究了全球海洋中的生物分布多样性和数量。
en:And so 10 years ago,an international program began called the Census of Marine Life,which set out to try and improve our understandingof life in the global oceans.It involved 17 different projects around the world.As you can see, these are the footprints of the different projects.And I hope you&#39;ll appreciate the level of global coveragethat it managed to achieve.It all began when two scientists, Fred Grassle and Jesse Ausubel,met in Woods Hole, Massachusettswhere both were guests at the famed oceanographic institute.And Fred was lamenting the state of marine biodiversityand the fact that it was in trouble and nothing was being done about it.Well, from that discussion grew this programthat involved 2,700 scientistsfrom more than 80 countries around the worldwho engaged in 540 ocean expeditionsat a combined cost of 650 million dollarsto study the distribution, diversity and abundanceof life in the global ocean.
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:那么我们有什么发现呢？我们发现了令人惊叹的新物种，比我们看过的任何生物还要美丽惊艳—从海岸线到深海，从微生物到鱼类，以及其间的所有物种这里的限制步骤并不是那些未知的生命物种，而是分类学专家，那些可以对这些物种进行鉴别并归类的人成为了限制步骤。其实，他们自己才是濒危的物种。海洋中每天会有四至五种新物种被发现。如我所说，数量可能会多得多。
en:And so what did we find?We found spectacular new species,the most beautiful and visually stunning things everywhere we looked —from the shoreline to the abyss,form microbes all the way up to fish and everything in between.And the limiting step here wasn&#39;t the unknown diversity of life,but rather the taxonomic specialistswho can identify and catalog these speciesthat became the limiting step.They, in fact, are an endangered species themselves.There are actually four to five new speciesdescribed everyday for the oceans.And as I say, it could be a much larger number.
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:我来自于加拿大的纽芬兰省它是位于东海岸上的一座岛在那里我们经历了人类历史上最糟糕的捕鱼灾难之一。这张图片里，一个小男孩站在一条银鳕鱼旁边大概是在1900年左右。当我跟这个小男孩差不多大的时候，我常跟我爷爷出去钓鱼我们抓住的鱼只有这条鱼的一半大小我当时候以为鱼就该是这么大的，因为我从来没有见过这张照片里这么大的鱼。在渔业崩溃20年后的今天，如果你再去钓鱼如果你能抓住一条鱼，这会有些困难，将会只是我的当时钓的鱼的一半。我们正在经历一个被称为“基准线的变动”的过程。我们所期望海洋产生的东西并不是我们真正了解的因为我们这辈子都没有见过那些东西。
en:Now, I come from Newfoundland in Canada —It&#39;s an island off the east coast of that continent —where we experienced one of the worst fishing disastersin human history.And so this photograph shows a small boy next to a codfish.It&#39;s around 1900.Now, when I was a boy of about his age,I would go out fishing with my grandfatherand we would catch fish about half that size.And I thought that was the norm,because I had never seen fish like this.If you were to go out there today, 20 years after this fishery collapsed,if you could catch a fish, which would be a bit of a challenge,it would be half that size still.So what we&#39;re experiencing is something called shifting baselines.Our expectations of what the oceans can produceis something that we don&#39;t really appreciatebecause we haven&#39;t seen it in our lifetimes.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:现在我们大多数人，也包括我，认为人类对于海洋的探索真正变得严肃起来也只是最近50年，或许100年的左右的事情。物种普查动用了所有能找到的信息资源试图追溯过去的时间。从餐馆的菜单到修道院中船舶的日志记录所显示的信息都用来研究海洋的模样因为大部分科学数据可以追溯到的最远只到第二次世界大战而他们的发现，事实上，对海洋的大量探索真正是从罗马人开始的。当然，那时候还没有制冷设备。所以渔民只捕捉当天可以吃掉或卖出的鱼量。但罗马人发明了用盐腌制的方法用盐腌制，使得鱼类存储，和远距离运送成为了可能。工业捕鱼便由此开始。
en:Now most of us, and I would say me included,think that human exploitation of the oceansreally only became very seriousin the last 50 to, perhaps, 100 years or so.The census actually tried to look back in time,using every source of information they could get their hands on.And so anything from restaurant menusto monastery records to ships&#39; logsto see what the oceans looked like.Because science data really goes backto, at best, World War II, for the most part.And so what they found, in fact,is that exploitation really began heavily with the Romans.And so at that time, of course, there was no refrigeration.So fishermen could only catchwhat they could either eat or sell that day.But the Romans developed salting.And with salting,it became possible to store fish and to transport it long distances.And so began industrial fishing.
时间： 4:13
zh-cn:这些都是我们所推断出来的由于人类初期对海洋的影响现在造成我们什么样的损失对于这些主要生物群，损失范围从65%到98%不等，数据如深蓝色条形图中所示。对于那些我们设法不干涉，也就是对保护的那些物种 — —例如，近几年的海洋哺乳动特以及海鸟— —他们有一定的恢复。所以也并不完全无法挽回的。但大多数情况下，我们从用盐到现在已用尽了。
en:And so these are the sorts of extrapolations that we haveof what sort of loss we&#39;ve hadrelative to pre-human impacts on the ocean.They range from 65 to 98 percentfor these major groups of organisms,as shown in the dark blue bars.Now for those species the we managed to leave alone, that we protect —for example, marine mammals in recent years and sea birds —there is some recovery.So it&#39;s not all hopeless.But for the most part, we&#39;ve gone from salting to exhausting.
时间： 4:39
zh-cn:然而，这另外一行证据十分有趣。这是从佛罗里达海岸捕捉到的冠军鱼是20世纪50年代的照片。请各位留意幻灯片中鱼的大小因为当看到一张上世纪 80 年代的同样的照片时我们看到鱼的尺寸要小得多我们也看到了变化冠军鱼的组成也产生了变化。到2007 年，这些渔获的大小已经小的可笑了。但这并不是什么好笑的事。海洋失去了很多他们的生产力而我们得对此负责。
en:Now this other line of evidence is a really interesting one.It&#39;s from trophy fish caught off the coast of Florida.And so this is a photograph from the 1950s.I want you to notice the scale on the slide,because when you see the same picture from the 1980s,we see the fish are much smallerand we&#39;re also seeing a changein terms of the composition of those fish.By 2007, the catch was actually laughablein terms of the size for a trophy fish.But this is no laughing matter.The oceans have lost a lot of their productivityand we&#39;re responsible for it.
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:那么还剩下什么？其实还有很多。还有有很多令人兴奋的事情，我要和大家聊一些。我想就从技术方面开始吧，因为这是TED大会你们自然想听到一些技术上的东西。我们用来进行深海采集的一种工具叫作远程操作车。所以我们把这些栓绳的机车降到海床他们就是我们在海底工作的眼和手。几年前，我本应该参加一次海洋研究远航因为和日程冲突我不能前往但是通过卫星链接我可以坐在家里进行研究脚边趴着我的狗，手里捧着一杯茶，我告诉驾驶员，&quot;我要那里的样本&quot;。驾驶员也按我所说的帮我采回了样本。这是现在才有的技术甚至十年前都还没有。它允许我们对这神奇的远离海岸和光源的栖息环境进行取样。
en:So what&#39;s left? Actually quite a lot.There&#39;s a lot of exciting things, and I&#39;m going to tell you a little bit about them.And I want to start with a bit on technology,because, of course, this is a TED Conferenceand you want to hear something on technology.So one of the tools that we use to sample the deep oceanare remotely operated vehicles.So these are tethered vehicles we lower down to the sea floorwhere they&#39;re our eyes and our hands for working on the sea bottom.So a couple of years ago, I was supposed to go on an oceanographic cruiseand I couldn&#39;t go because of a scheduling conflict.But through a satellite link I was able to sit at my study at homewith my dog curled up at my feet, a cup of tea in my hand,and I could tell the pilot, &quot;I want a sample right there.&quot;And that&#39;s exactly what the pilot did for me.That&#39;s the sort of technology that&#39;s available todaythat really wasn&#39;t available even a decade ago.So it allows us to sample these amazing habitatsthat are very far from the surfaceand very far from light.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:我们用来对海洋进行取样的其中一种工具就是声音，或者说声波。声波的优势是与光不同，它们可以顺利地穿过水因此，我们可以发出的声波，他们碰到上鱼或是其它物体时会反弹回来。在这个例子里，一名物种普查科学家开出两艘船。其中一艘发出声波并反弹。这些声波会被第二艘船接收，这种情况下，我们能够精确地估计在大约一分钟的时间里有2500亿鲱鱼经过面积大约有一个曼哈顿岛那么大。这样的工具对渔业十分有用，因为知道多少条鱼是十分重要的。
en:And so one of the tools that we can use to sample the oceansis acoustics, or sound waves.And the advantage of sound wavesis that they actually pass well through water, unlike light.And so we can send out sound waves,they bounce off objects like fish and are reflected back.And so in this example, a census scientist took out two ships.One would send out sound waves that would bounce back.They would be received by a second ship,and that would give us very precise estimates, in this case,of 250 billion herringin a period of about a minute.And that&#39;s an area about the size of Manhattan Island.And to be able to do that is a tremendous fisheries tool,because knowing how many fish are there is really critical.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:我们还可以使用卫星标签来追踪动物在海洋中的活动。对于浮到海洋表面呼吸的动物来说，比如这只海象它能将数据发送回岸上并且告诉我们它在海里的具体位置由此我们可以产生这些轨迹比如，深蓝色的轨迹显示了这只海象在北太平泮的移动路线我知道，对于色盲的人来说，这个幻灯片好像没什么用但请还是继续听我讲下去
en:We can also use satellite tagsto track animals as they move through the oceans.And so for animals that come to the surface to breathe,such as this elephant seal,it&#39;s an opportunity to send data back to shoreand tell us where exactly it is in the ocean.And so from that we can produce these tracks.For example, the dark blueshows you where the elephant seal moved in the north Pacific.Now I realize for those of you who are colorblind, this slide is not very helpful,but stick with me nonetheless.
时间： 6:56
zh-cn:对于那些不浮上海洋表面的动物来说我们有一种叫作”弹出式标签“的工具，它们收集光线的数据，何时日出，何时日落然后在某一段时间它会弹出到表面，转送数据回岸。因为GPS在水下无法工作，所以我们需要这些工具。由此，我们能辨别出这些蓝色高速公路，辨别出这些海洋中的热点，它们应该成为海洋保护工作中优先保护区域。
en:For animals that don&#39;t surface,we have something called pop-up tags,which collect data about light and what time the sun rises and sets.And then at some period of timeit pops up to the surface and, again, relays that data back to shore.Because GPS doesn&#39;t work under water. That&#39;s why we need these tools.And so from this we&#39;re able to identify these blue highways,these hot spots in the ocean,that should be real priority areasfor ocean conservation.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:另外一件你们可能在想的事情是你去超市买东西，货物会被扫描。所以货物上会有条形码告诉电脑这是什么货物遗传学家发明了一个称为遗传条形码的类似工具。条形码的工作原理是使用一个称为CO1的特定的基因这种基因在同一个物种中是一致的，但在不同物种之间各不相同。这就意味着我们可以明确标识不同的物种即使他们彼此看起来很像但在生物学上却有很大不同
en:Now one of the other things that you may think aboutis that, when you go to the supermarket and you buy things, they&#39;re scanned.And so there&#39;s a barcode on that productthat tells the computer exactly what the product is.Geneticists have developed a similar tool called genetic barcoding.And what barcoding doesis use a specific gene called CO1that&#39;s consistent within a species, but varies among species.And so what that means is we can unambiguously identifywhich species are whicheven if they look similar to each other,but may be biologically quite different.
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:用一个我最喜欢的例子来说两个纽约市的高中女生她们参加了物种普查项目。她们从纽约市的市场上和餐馆里收集鱼并且用条形码识别它们她们发现了被错误标签的鱼比如，她们发现有被当作非常值钱的金枪鱼来卖的鱼实际上是些不怎么值钱的罗非鱼他们还发现了被当作普通鱼类出售的一种濒危的物种所以条形码使我们了解我们在研究和在吃的鱼的物种
en:Now one of the nicest examples I like to cite on thisis the story of two young women, high school students in New York City,who worked with the census.They went out and collected fish from markets and from restaurants in New York Cityand they barcoded it.Well what they found was mislabeled fish.So for example,they found something which was sold as tuna, which is very valuable,was in fact tilapia, which is a much less valuable fish.They also found an endangered speciessold as a common one.So barcoding allows us to know what we&#39;re working withand also what we&#39;re eating.
时间： 8:18
zh-cn:海洋生物地理信息系统是所有物种普查数据的数据库。它是开放的；你们都可以进去下载你们想要的的数据它包含了物种普查获得的所有数据还有其他人自主提供的数据集。那么你们能做的是绘制物种及其在海洋中的分布图我在这里绘制的是我们手头已有的数据这是我们集中进行取样工作的地方。各位可以看到我们的取样工作在北大西洋具体说是在北海，以及北美东海岸已经进行得挺不错暧色区显示的便是取样较好的地区冷色区，即蓝色和黑色区域则是我们有几乎没有数据采集的区域。所以即使在长达10年的物种普查之后，仍有很大一片区域尚待探索
en:The Ocean Biogeographic Information Systemis the database for all the census data.It&#39;s open access; you can all go in and download data as you wish.And it contains all the data from the censusplus other data sets that people were willing to contribute.And so what you can do with thatis to plot the distribution of species and where they occur in the oceans.What I&#39;ve plotted up here is the data that we have on hand.This is where our sampling effort has concentrated.Now what you can seeis we&#39;ve sampled the area in the North Atlantic,in the North Sea in particular,and also the east coast of North America fairly well.That&#39;s the warm colors which show a well-sampled region.The cold colors, the blue and the black,show areas where we have almost no data.So even after a 10-year census,there are large areas that still remain unexplored.
时间： 9:00
zh-cn:一群居住在德克萨斯州的科学家在墨西哥湾工作他们决定做一项爱心工程把他们能找到的所有的关于墨西哥湾的生物多样性的知识聚集到一块他们聚集知识，列了一张物种表单上面列有所知存在的物种这看起来确实像一个十分深奥的科学活动。之后，发生了深水地平线钻井台漏油事件。因此，突然间这个爱心工程在没有仍何明显的经济原因的情况下成为了该系统将如何恢复，将需时多久以及法律诉讼和未来几年中将发生的数十亿美元的讨论将如何得到解决这些问题的关键信息。
en:Now there are a group of scientists living in Texas, working in the Gulf of Mexicowho decided really as a labor of loveto pull together all the knowledge they couldabout biodiversity in the Gulf of Mexico.And so they put this together, a list of all the species,where they&#39;re known to occur,and it really seemed like a very esoteric, scientific type of exercise.But then, of course, there was the Deep Horizon oil spill.So all of a sudden, this labor of lovefor no obvious economic reasonhas become a critical piece of informationin terms of how that system is going to recover, how long it will takeand how the lawsuitsand the multi-billion-dollar discussions that are going to happen in the coming yearsare likely to be resolved.
时间： 9:38
zh-cn:那么我们有什么发现？我可以站在这说上几个小时，但是显然，我不能这样做。但我会告诉你物种普查中一些我最喜欢的发现我们发现的事情之一是多样性的热点在哪里？哪里是能找到海洋生物最多的地方？以及如果我们这样绘制著名物种的分布我们会发现什么。我们看到的是，对于沿海的标签，也就是那些生活在海岸线附近的生物，他们在热带地区是最多样化的。这是我们已经熟知的事实所以它不算一个真正的突破。
en:So what did we find?Well, I could stand here for hours, but, of course, I&#39;m not allowed to do that.But I will tell you some of my favorite discoveriesfrom the census.So one of the things we discovered is where are the hot spots of diversity?Where do we find the most species of ocean life?And what we find if we plot up the well-known speciesis this sort of a distribution.And what we see is that for coastal tags,for those organisms that live near the shoreline,they&#39;re most diverse in the tropics.This is something we&#39;ve actually known for a while,so it&#39;s not a real breakthrough.
时间：10:06
zh-cn:那么真正令人兴奋的是海洋标签，或者说是那些生活在远离海岸的生物在中纬度地区其实更加多样化。再一次,管理者可以利用用这些数据如果他们要考虑优先保护哪块海域的话这可以在全球范围内进行，也可以在某地区范围内进行。这就是为什么生物多样性数据如此宝贵的原因。
en:What is really exciting thoughis that the oceanic tags, or the ones that live far from the coast,are actually more diverse at intermediate latitudes.This is the sort of data, again, that managers could useif they want to prioritize areas of the ocean that we need to conserve.You can do this on a global scale, but you can also do it on a regional scale.And that&#39;s why biodiversity data can be so valuable.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:虽然我们在普查中发现的很多物种都很小，很难看到但并不是总是这样。比如，尽管难以置信，一只三公斤重的大龙虾可以逃过的科学家的眼睛，但事实上，直到几年前，当时南非渔民要求获得出口许可证时科学家们才发现这个新物种。同样，这只金色V形海带在阿拉斯加低水位线的下方被发现可能是一个新的物种。即使它身长三米，它确实，再一次，逃过了科学家的眼睛。这个家伙，莱氏拟乌贼，身长七米老实讲，它生活在中大西洋海岭的深海所以它就更难被发现了。但发现大型并且令人兴奋的生物仍是有可能的。这种特别的虾，我们把它称为侏罗纪虾，它一直被认为在50年前就已经灭绝了直到普查被发现，它在澳大利亚海岸一直生活得好好的。这也显示了，海洋的浩瀚使其可以长时间的隐藏秘密。所以，史蒂文 · 斯皮尔伯格，我让你难过了。
en:Now while a lot of the species we discovered in the censusare things that are small and hard to see,that certainly wasn&#39;t always the case.For example, while it&#39;s hard to believethat a three kilogram lobster could elude scientists,it did until a few years agowhen South African fishermen requested an export permitand scientists realized that this was something new to science.Similarly this Golden V kelpcollected in Alaska just below the low water markis probably a new species.Even though it&#39;s three meters long,it actually, again, eluded science.Now this guy, this bigfin squid, is seven meters in length.But to be fair, it lives in the deep waters of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge,so it was a lot harder to find.But there&#39;s still potential for discovery of big and exciting things.This particular shrimp, we&#39;ve dubbed it the Jurassic shrimp,it&#39;s thought to have gone extinct 50 years ago —at least it was, until the census discoveredit was living and doing just fine off the coast of Australia.And it shows that the ocean, because of its vastness,can hide secrets for a very long time.So, Steven Spielberg, eat your heart out.
时间：11:22
zh-cn:如果我们看一下这些分部，我们就会发现这些分部产生了惊人的变化我们手头的一项记录显示这种灰鹱经历了状观的迁徙从新西兰一路北上直到阿拉斯加，再返回如此追寻无尽的炎夏以完成它们的生命周期。我们还谈到了大白鲨咖啡馆地区它位于太平洋中，是大白鲨聚集的地方。我们不知道为什么它们会聚集在那，我们真是不知道。这是留给未来的问题。
en:If we look at distributions, in fact distributions change dramatically.And so one of the records that we hadwas this sooty shearwater, which undergoes these spectacular migrationsall the way from New Zealandall the way up to Alaska and back againin search of endless summeras they complete their life cycles.We also talked about the White Shark Cafe.This is a location in the Pacific where white shark converge.We don&#39;t know why they converge there, we simply don&#39;t know.That&#39;s a question for the future.
时间：11:48
zh-cn:我们在高中学到的知识之一就是所有动物都需要氧气，以求生存。现在这个小的生物，它只有大约半毫米的大小，不是非常有魅力。但是，它却直到八十年代初期才被发现。有趣的是几年前，物种普查科学家发现这家伙能够在地中海深处的氧气贫乏的沉积物中茁壮成长所以现在他们知道了，事实上，动物可以不依靠氧气生存，至少某一些动物可以，而且它们甚至能够适应最恶劣的生存条件。
en:One of the things that we&#39;re taught in high schoolis that all animals require oxygen in order to survive.Now this little critter, it&#39;s only about half a millimeter in size,not terribly charismatic.But it was only discovered in the early 1980s.But the really interesting thing about itis that, a few years ago, census scientists discoveredthat this guy can thrive in oxygen-poor sedimentsin the deep Mediterranean Sea.So now they know that, in fact,animals can live without oxygen, at least some of them,and that they can adapt to even the harshest of conditions.
时间：12:16
zh-cn:如果你把海洋中所有的水都吸干，这就是所剩下的东西这是海床上的生物量现在我们看到的是趋向南北两极的巨大生物量两级之间生物量却很少我们在极端环境中发生了生命我们发现了生活在冰里的新物种它们称为以冰为基底的食物网的一部分
en:If you were to suck all the water out of the ocean,this is what you&#39;d be left behind with,and that&#39;s the biomass of life on the sea floor.Now what we see is huge biomass towards the polesand not much biomass in between.We found life in the extremes.And so there were new species that were foundthat live inside iceand help to support an ice-based food web.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:我们还发现了这种漂亮的雪蟹它们栖息于复活节岛沸腾的深海热泉喷口附近这个特别的物种引起了公众的热切的关注。我们也发现了深度5000米的最深喷口温度高达407摄氏度的最热喷口我们还在南太平洋及北极地区找到了喷口这些地区之前都没有被发现。甚至那些仍可被探究的新环境也是如此
en:And we also found this spectacular yeti crabthat lives near boiling hot hydrothermal vents at Easter Island.And this particular speciesreally captured the public&#39;s attention.We also found the deepest vents known yet — 5,000 meters —the hottest vents at 407 degrees Celsius —vents in the South Pacific and also in the Arcticwhere none had been found before.So even new environments are still within the domain of the discoverable.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:现在未知的物种很多。我仅仅快速的总结其中几个给你们听。首先，我们可能会问，海洋中多少种鱼类？除那海洋哺乳动物之外，比其海洋中的其它物种，我们确实对鱼类更为了解。所以我们可以现有的发现率来推断我们还会发现多少其它的物种由此，经过计算我们所知海洋物种大约有16500种而可能还有1000到4000种未知。所以我们做得很不错。我们了解了75%的鱼类，也许高达 90%。但正如我所说，鱼类是我们最了解的，
en:Now in terms of the unknowns, there are many.And I&#39;m just going to summarize just a few of themvery quickly for you.First of all, we might ask, how many fishes in the sea?We actually know the fishes better than we do any other group in the oceanother than marine mammals.And so we can actually extrapolate based on rates of discoveryhow many more species we&#39;re likely to discover.And from that, we actually calculatethat we know about 16,500 marine speciesand there are probably another 1,000 to 4,000 left to go.So we&#39;ve done pretty well.We&#39;ve got about 75 percent of the fish,maybe as much as 90 percent.But the fishes, as I say, are the best known.
时间：13:35
zh-cn:所以对其它生物群的了解就少得多这组数据是从即将刊登于《公共科学图书馆•生物学》上新的文章种获得的这组数据预测了在陆地和海洋中还有多少未知物种发现成果是他们认为我们所知的海洋物种只占全部的9%。这意味着即使在物种普查之后仍有91%的物种尚待发现。如果真是这样的话大概还有200万种未知物种所以对于这些未知物种来说，我们还有很多工作要做
en:So our level of knowledge is much less for other groups of organisms.Now this figure is actually based on a brand new paperthat&#39;s going to come out in the journal PLoS Biology.And what is does is predict how many more species there areon land and in the ocean.And what they foundis that they think that we know of about nine percent of the species in the ocean.That means 91 percent, even after the census,still remain to be discovered.And so that turns out to be about two million speciesonce all is said and done.So we still have quite a lot of work to doin terms of unknowns.
时间：14:04
zh-cn:这种细菌是在智利海岸找到的生物垫的一部分。这些生物垫实际上覆盖的区域面积有整个希腊那么大这种特别的细菌是肉眼可见的。你可以想象这所代表的生物量。但真正吸引人的，是微生物的多样性一滴海水可能包含160种不同类型的微生物。而海洋本身被认为可能包含多达10亿的不同类型的微生物。这才是真正令人兴奋的。他们都在那里干什么呢？这个我们就不得而知了。
en:Now this bacteriumis part of mats that are found off the coast of Chile.And these mats actually cover an area the size of Greece.And so this particular bacterium is actually visible to the naked eye.But you can imagine the biomass that represents.But the really intriguing thing about the microbesis just how diverse they are.A single drop of seawatercould contain 160 different types of microbes.And the oceans themselvesare thought potentially to contain as many as a billion different types.So that&#39;s really exciting. What are they all doing out there?We actually don&#39;t know.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:我想说，关于这次物种普查最令人兴奋的事情是全球科学所起到的作用。该图是晚上的光亮图，正如我们所见地球上有很多地区的人类发展远比其它地区要好得多但在它们之间，我们能看到大片的黑暗区域即相对之下未被探究的海洋我想说的另一点是海洋是相互连通的海洋生物并不关心什么国际边界它们想去哪就去哪所以国际协作就变得更加重要。
en:The most exciting thing, I would say, about this censusis the role of global science.And so as we see in this image of light during the night,there are lots of areas of the Earthwhere human development is much greaterand other areas where it&#39;s much less,but between them we see large dark areasof relatively unexplored ocean.The other point I&#39;d like to make about thisis that this ocean&#39;s interconnected.Marine organisms do not care about international boundaries;they move where they will.And so the importance then of global collaborationbecomes all the more important.
时间：15:05
zh-cn:我们已经失去了许多的天堂般的地方。例如，这些金枪鱼曾经在北海海域是如此丰富而现在数量已明显减少地中海深海置有捕鱼网它们捕到的垃圾远比动物要多那里是深海，是我们认为地球上所遗存的最原始的环境。另外还有很多其它的困扰。海洋酸化是人们所关心的一个大问题同样，海洋变暖以及将对珊瑚礁造成的影响问题也很严峻。未来几十年，在我们的有生之年里我们将看到珊瑚礁被大量损坏
en:We&#39;ve lost a lot of paradise.For example, these tuna that were once so abundant in the North Seaare now effectively gone.There were trawls taken in the deep sea in the Mediterranean,which collected more garbage than they did animals.And that&#39;s the deep sea, that&#39;s the environment that we consider to beamong the most pristine left on Earth.And there are a lot of other pressures.Ocean acidification is a really big issue that people are concerned with,as well as ocean warming, and the effects they&#39;re going to have on coral reefs.On the scale of decades, in our lifetimes,we&#39;re going to see a lot of damage to coral reefs.
时间：15:35
zh-cn:我可以花接下来所剩不多的时间唠叨唠叨海洋保护的事情但我想以一种积极的方式来结束我们面临最大的挑战是努力保护我们所剩下的东西因为他们仍然美丽得令人叹为观止。海洋也依旧富饶那里发生着太多与人类息息相关的事情即使从自私的角度来说，我们也真的需要努力做得比过去更好所以，我们需要认识到这些热点并尽最大努力来保护他们。
en:And I could spend the rest of my time, which is getting very limited,going through this litany of concerns about the ocean,but I want to end on a more positive note.And so the grand challenge thenis to try and make sure that we preserve what&#39;s left,because there is still spectacular beauty.And the oceans are so productive,there&#39;s so much going on in there that&#39;s of relevance to humansthat we really need to, even from a selfish perspective,try to do better than we have in the past.So we need to recognize those hot spotsand do our best to protect them.
时间：16:02
zh-cn:我们看到的这张照片，它美得令人无法呼吸，此外，海洋还给我们提供了呼吸所需要的氧气。参加物种普查的科学家们在雨中工作，在严寒中工作他们在水下工作，也在水上工作他们试图发现这些神奇的生物，探索浩瀚的未知世界，以及发现海洋生活中令人叹为观止的适应能力。因此，无论您是住在智利山区的牦牛牧民，或是纽约市的股票经纪人，还是生活在爱丁堡的TED工作者，海洋对每个人都极为重要我们与海洋同在
en:When we look at pictures like this, they take our breath away,in addition to helping to give us breathby the oxygen that the oceans provide.Census scientists worked in the rain, they worked in the cold,they worked under water and they worked above watertrying to illuminate the wondrous discovery,the still vast unknown,the spectacular adaptations that we see in ocean life.So whether you&#39;re a yak herder living in the mountains of Chile,whether you&#39;re a stockbroker in New York Cityor whether you&#39;re a TEDster living in Edinburgh,the oceans matter.And as the oceans go so shall we.
时间：16:32
zh-cn:感谢您的倾听。
en:Thanks for listening.
时间：16:34
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
