时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我的工作就是发挥。而且当我在设计的时候我就是在发挥。我甚至曾在字典里查了这个词，来确定我确实这样做了，以及发挥的定义准确无误。第一点，是要积极投身于如同孩童一般的活动或者用心去做。第二点是要有冒险精神。并且当我在做设计的时候，我意识到我是两者兼顾的。我始终如一的保持一颗童心并充满冒险精神。而且我认为，如果你不这样的话，很有可能是什么东西跟你不对路，或跟你的处境不符，如果你是个设计师。然而严肃的部分正是让我困惑的，而且我也无法很好的解决直到我记起了一篇文章。那是一篇我30年前读过的文章。作者是Russell Baker，他曾经在纽约时报一个“观察者”专栏。他是一个非常棒的幽默作家。现在让我来向你们读读这篇文章。或者说是一篇节选。因为它真的击中了我的要害。这是一封很友好的劝告信。
en:My work is play.And I play when I design.I even looked it up in the dictionary, to make surethat I actually do that,and the definition of play,number one, was engaging in a childlikeactivity or endeavor,and number two was gambling.And I realize I do bothwhen I&#39;m designing.I&#39;m both a kid and I&#39;m gambling all the time.And I think that if you&#39;re not,there&#39;s probably something inherently wrongwith the structure or the situation you&#39;re in,if you&#39;re a designer.But the serious part is what threw me,and I couldn&#39;t quite get a handleon it until I remembered an essay.And it&#39;s an essay I read 30 years ago.It was written by Russell Baker,who used to write an &quot;Observer&quot; column in the New York Times.He&#39;s a wonderful humorist. And I&#39;m going to read youthis essay,or an excerpt from itbecause it really hit home for me.Here is a letter of friendly advice.
时间： 1:12
zh-cn:严肃起来，信里写道。当然，这意味着要郑重其事起来。郑重其事很简单。严肃却很难。孩子们常常都由认真开始，也就是让他们感到愉快的东西当他们作为一个团体同成人相比时。成年人，整体上来说，都是郑重的。在政治上，很严肃的参选人很稀少，比如 Adlai Stevenson，会很轻易的被郑重其事的参选人打败，比如Eisenhower。这是因为对于大多数人来说认识到罕见的严肃是很难的，但展示郑重却更加令人适宜。这也是老生常谈了。慢跑，很常见，也被广泛的认为对你有好处，就是郑重的。而扑克却是严肃的。华盛顿特区就是郑重的。而纽约却是严肃的。去参加那些将会告诉你未来所有事情的教育会议是郑重的。独自一人走很长一段路，在此期间，琢磨出一套抢劫蒂凡尼珠宝店的完全方案，这是严肃的。
en:Be serious, it says.What it means, of course, is, be solemn.Being solemn is easy.Being serious is hard.Children almost always begin by being serious,which is what makes them so entertainingwhen compared with adults as a class.Adults, on the whole, are solemn.In politics, the rare candidate who is serious,like Adlai Stevenson,is easily overwhelmed by one who is solemn, like Eisenhower.That&#39;s because it is hard for most peopleto recognize seriousness, which is rare,but more comfortable to endorse solemnity,which is commonplace.Jogging, which is commonplace,and widely accepted as good for you, is solemn.Poker is serious.Washington, D.C. is solemn.New York is serious.Going to educational conferences to tell you anythingabout the future is solemn.Taking a long walk by yourself,during which you devise a foolproof scheme for robbing Tiffany&#39;s,is serious.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:现在，当我接受了Russell Bake的关于郑重的或是严肃的去设计的定义的时候，质量就不再意味着一些特殊的含义了。郑重的设计通常都是一些很重要而且很实用的设计。郑重的设计也会被社会大众认为是正确的，同时也会被相应的观众所认可。这就是那些想法正确的设计者和所有的客户所努力的。严肃的设计，严肃的娱乐，却是另外一回事。一方面，严肃的设计通常自发性的，直观的，偶然的或者顺便的就发生了。它可以通过无辜，或是傲慢，或是自私，有时会是粗心大意。但大部分情况下，它是通过各种形式的毫无意义的人类行为来实现的。
en:Now, when I apply Russell Baker&#39;s definitionof solemnity or seriousness to design,it doesn&#39;t necessarily make any particular point about quality.Solemn design is often important and very effective design.Solemn design is also socially correct,and is accepted by appropriate audiences.It&#39;s what right-thinking designersand all the clients are striving for.Serious design, serious play,is something else.For one thing, it often happensspontaneously, intuitively,accidentally or incidentally.It can be achieved out of innocence, or arrogance,or out of selfishness, sometimes out of carelessness.But mostly, it&#39;s achieved through all those kind of crazyparts of human behavior thatdon&#39;t really make any sense.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:严肃的设计不会完美。它充满了那种原始的工艺法。严肃的设计通常也会非常的不成功如果从郑重的角度来看的话。这是因为严肃的艺术发挥关乎创造，改变，反抗——而不是完美。完美只可能在郑重其事的艺术发挥中才会发生。现在，我时常认为设计生涯就如同超现实的楼梯。如果你看看这个楼梯，你会看到在你二十多岁的时候每一步阶梯都很高而且横跨度很短，因此你总能取得巨大的发现。在你年轻的时候你的飞跃迅速。那是因为你还不是无所不知，你有很多东西要学，因此你所做的一切都是学习的经验，和你在飞跃的过程。随着你的年纪增长，楼梯渐渐变得矮了，横跨度却变得宽了，同时你也开始放慢了步伐因为你的发现越来越少了。而且随着你变得更老，更加力不从心，你步履艰难的在这个令人沮丧的，长长的，最终会带你通往灭亡的楼梯上行走。
en:Serious design is imperfect.It&#39;s filled with the kind of craft laws that come from something beingthe first of its kind.Serious design is also — often — quite unsuccessfulfrom the solemn point of view.That&#39;s because the art of serious playis about invention, change, rebellion — not perfection.Perfection happens during solemn play.Now, I always saw design careerslike surreal staircases.If you look at the staircase, you&#39;ll seethat in your 20s the risers are very highand the steps are very short,and you make huge discoveries.You sort of leap up very quickly in your youth.That&#39;s because you don&#39;t know anything and you have a lot to learn,and so that anything you do is a learning experienceand you&#39;re just jumping right up there.As you get older, the risers get shallowerand the steps get wider,and you start moving along at a slower pacebecause you&#39;re making fewer discoveries.And as you get older and more decrepit,you sort of inch along on thissort of depressing, long staircase,leading you into oblivion.
时间： 4:01
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:我发现想严肃起来真的很难。我的老板要求我要郑重，但我越来越发现当我不必这么做的时候我依然很郑重。在我35年的工作经验中，我认为我真真正正的严肃过四回。现在我就把它们展示给你们，因为它们皆出自非常特殊的情况下。做个孩子真的很棒。那时，当我20岁出头的时候，我在唱片公司工作，为CBS唱片公司设计唱片封面，当时我并不知道我拥有一个多么棒的工作。我认为每个人都有一份像我这样的工作。并且—我看待设计的方式和我看待世界的方式就是，我周围正在发生什么和我走进设计室的时候遇到的各种事都是我的对手。我真的，真的，真的非常讨厌字体。我曾认为字体是最干净，最枯燥，最法西斯，非常独裁的字体，并且我讨厌一切用字体设计的东西。当我还在上大学那会儿，这却是一种时尚而且流行的设计。这是一个由Rudi de Harra*设计的非常可爱的书皮，但我非常讨厌它，就是因为它用了字体，而且生搬硬套的模仿了它。我只是认为它，你知道的，非常的枯燥。
en:I find it&#39;s actually getting really hard to be serious.I&#39;m hired to be solemn, but I find more and morethat I&#39;m solemn when I don&#39;t have to be.And in my 35 years of working experience,I think I was really serious four times.And I&#39;m going to show them to you now,because they came out of very specific conditions.It&#39;s great to be a kid.Now, when I was in my early 20s,I worked in the record business, designing record covers for CBS Records,and I had no idea what a great job I had.I thought everybody had a job like that.And what —the way I looked at design and the way I looked at the world was,what was going on around meand the things that came at the time I walked into designwere the enemy.I really, really, really hatedthe typeface Helvetica.I thought the typeface Helveticawas the cleanest, most boring, most fascistic,really repressive typeface,and I hated everything that was designed in Helvetica.And when I was inmy college days,this was the sort of designthat was fashionable and popular.This is actually quite a lovely book jacket by Rudy de Harak,but I just hated it, because it was designed with Helvetica,and I made parodies about it.I just thought it was, you know, completely boring.
时间： 5:22
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:因此——因此，我的人生目标就是不用字体来做一些设计。而且不用字体做设计确实很困难，因为你到处碰到这种字体设计。在70年代初，并没有很多关于设计历史的书。也没有——也没有过多的设计出版。你得去古董店，你得去欧洲。你得去很多地方来找你想要的东西。我的回应是，你知道的，Art Nouveau，或者deco，或者维多利亚排版，或者一些完全不用字体的东西。我教会了我自己用这种方式设计，这就是我的早年经历，我用这些东西以一些很拙劣的方式放在唱片封面上和我的设计里面。我没有学过这个。我只是把这些东西拼凑在一起。我把维多利亚式的设计混合进了流行元素，同时也把新艺术派风格掺杂进了一些其他元素。我把这些专辑封面都弄得非常华丽，非常精巧，这并不是因为我曾是个后现代主义者或是历史批判主义者——只是因为我根本不知道那些东西到底是些什么。我只是讨厌字体设计。
en:So — so, my goal in lifewas to do stuff that wasn&#39;t made out of Helvetica.And to do stuff that wasn&#39;t made out of Helveticawas actually kind of hard because you had to find it.And there weren&#39;t a lot of books about the history of designin the early 70s. There weren&#39;t —there wasn&#39;t a plethora of design publishing.You actually had to go to antique stores. You had to go to Europe.You had to go places and find the stuff.And what I responded to was, you know,Art Nouveau, or deco,or Victorian typography,or things that were just completely not Helvetica.And I taught myself design this way,and this was sort of my early years,and I used these thingsin really goofy wayson record covers and in my design.I wasn&#39;t educated. I just sort ofput these things together.I mixed up Victorian designs with pop,and I mixed up Art Nouveau with something else.And I made these very lush,very elaborate record covers,not because I was being a post-modernist or a historicist —because I didn&#39;t know what those things were.I just hated Helvetica.
时间： 6:30
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:31
zh-cn:而且这种激情促使我去非常严肃的发挥，一种我从来没有尝试过的发挥因为我受过非常良好的教育。那种年轻生命里存在着一些很有意思的东西，在这种青春鼓舞下你可以让你自己成长并且发挥，同时让自己成为一个初出茅庐者，然后设计出与众不同的东西。直到70年代末，事实上，我的这些作品才崭露头角。我的意思是，那些封面风靡全球，而且开始拿了不少奖，与此同时，人们知道了我的作品。而我也突然变成了一个后现代主义者，那时，我创办了自己的生意。起初，我因为它受到嘉奖，后来又因为它饱受批评，但关键在于，我变得郑重起来。大约14年间我都没有照我所想的一个严肃的艺术品应该做的去做。80年代的大部分时间我都相当的郑重，设计出这样的艺术就像我所期望的那样因为那就是我，我就在从严肃到郑重的圈子里生活直到陈腐直到死亡，然后再重新开始。
en:And that kind of passiondrove me into very serious play,a kind of play I could never do nowbecause I&#39;m too well-educated.And there&#39;s something wonderful aboutthat form of youth,where you can let yourselfgrow and play, and bereally a brat, and then accomplish things.By the end of the &#39;70s, actually,the stuff became known.I mean, these covers appeared all over the world,and they started winning awards,and people knew them.And I was suddenly a post-modernist,and I began a career as — in my own business.And first I was praised for it, then criticized for it,but the fact of the matter was, I had become solemn.I didn&#39;t do what I thinkwas a piece of serious work again for about 14 years.I spent most of the &#39;80s being quite solemn,turning out these sorts of designsthat I was expected to dobecause that&#39;s who I was,and I was living in this cycle of going from serious to solemnto hackneyed to dead, and getting rediscovered all over again.
时间： 7:38
zh-cn:好的，下面是我的第二个状态此时我认为完成了一些很严肃的发挥。这是一部我很钟爱的Paul Newman保罗纽曼的电影名字叫做“The Verdict大审判”。我不知道你们中间有多少人看过它，但它真的很棒。在这部电影里，他饰演了一位想成为专办交通事故损害赔偿的落魄的律师。他采取-实际上—他开始了一次不法行为的诉讼来解决其实还算容易的一次交易，在这诉讼交易联系中，他开始强调重视和鉴别他的客户，他重新拾回了他的道德和目标，他继而赢得了这次诉讼。在绝望的深渊，在电影中间部分，当一切看其来他不能够放下这件事，他需要这个官司，他特别需要赢这场官司。这是保罗纽曼单独一人的镜头，在他的办公室，他说道，“这个案件就是了。没有其他的案件了。这就是了。没有其他的了。&quot;在那个时刻充满了渴望和关注，他能赢。那是个绝妙的角色来创作一些严肃的演技。在1994年我曾有过这样的时刻，当我遇到一个剧场导演名叫乔治沃尔夫，他打算让我设计纽约莎士比亚节的象征画，后来，成为公共剧场的象征画。我开始沉浸在这个项目中我从来没有过这样。
en:So, here was the second conditionfor which I think I accomplished some serious play.There&#39;s a Paul Newman moviethat I love called &quot;The Verdict.&quot;I don&#39;t know how many of you have seen it, but it&#39;s a beaut.And in the movie, he playsa down-and-out lawyerwho&#39;s become an ambulance chaser.And he&#39;s taken on —he&#39;s given, actually — a malpractice suit to handlethat&#39;s sort of an easy deal,and in the midst of trying to connect the deal,he starts to empathizeand identify with his client,and he regains his morality and purpose,and he goes on to win the case.And in the depth of despair,in the midst of the movie, when it looks like he can&#39;t pull this thing off,and he needs this case,he needs to win this case so badly.There&#39;s a shot of Paul Newman alone,in his office, saying,&quot;This is the case. There are no other cases.This is the case. There are no other cases.&quot;And in that moment ofdesire and focus,he can win.And that is a wonderfulposition to be in to create some serious play.And I had that moment in 1994when I met a theater directornamed George Wolfe,who was going to have me designan identity for the New York Shakespeare Festival,then known,and then became the Public Theater.And I began getting immersedin this projectin a way I never was before.
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:这就是那个时候剧场广告的样子。这就是在报纸上和纽约时报上的。所以说，这算是那时的评论。公共剧场实际上有比这个更好的广告。它们没有标志，没有象征画，但是他们有这些很具有讽刺意味的宣传画，这些宣传画是由保罗戴维斯做的。乔治沃尔夫是从另一位导演那里接手的，他想改变剧场，他想让它变得更城市化，更喧闹，成为一个广泛的地方。所以，运用我对伙伴印刷的热爱，我将我自己沉浸在这个项目中。它不同的地方是它的总体艺术性，是我真的成为了代表一个地方的声音，视觉上的声音，这是我从未有过的方式，无论什么方面—最小型的广告，车票，无论是什么—都是由我设计的。没有格式化。没有部门内部的压力。我真的花了三年时间创造了这一切—每张剪报，网站上的一切，剧场的一切。这就是我唯一的工作，即便我也做其他的事情。我生活在，呼吸在我从来没有过的跟客户的亲密联系中。它使我真正地将我自己表述出来，并成长起来。我认为大家知道当你要被授予这个职位的时候，这很不寻常，但是当你得到它，你就有了这个机会来展示发挥严肃艺术的时刻。
en:This is what theater advertising looked like at that time.This is what was in the newspapers and in the New York Times.So, this is sort of a comment on the time.And the Public Theater actually had much better advertising than this.They had no logo and no identity,but they had these very iconic posterspainted by Paul Davis.And George Wolf had taken over from another directorand he wanted to change the theater,and he wanted to make it urban and loudand a place that was inclusive.So, drawing on my love of typography,I immersed myself into this project.And what was different about it was the totality of it,was that I really became the voice, the visual voice, of a placein a way I had never done before,where every aspect —the smallest ad, the ticket, whatever it was —was designed by me.There was no format.There was no in-house department that these things were pushed to.I literally for three years made everything —every scrap of paper, everything online,that this theater did.And it was the only job,even though I was doing other jobs.I lived and breathed it in a way I haven&#39;twith a client since.It enabled me to really express myself and grow.And I think that you knowwhen you&#39;re going to be given this position,and it&#39;s rare, but when you get it and you have this opportunity,it&#39;s the moment of serious play.
时间：10:38
zh-cn:我做了这些事，我仍然继续做着。我仍然为公共剧场工作。我是董事会成员，并且我积极参与其中。我认为，公共剧场最辉煌的时刻是在1996年，我设计完成之后的两年，也是&quot;Bring in &#39;da Noise, Bring in &#39;da Funk&quot;比赛的时候，那比赛遍布纽约。但是发生了一些事，那就是它非常受欢迎。对于一些严肃的事情来说那意味着死亡之吻因为它庄重。象征画也发生了变化，纽约市，从某种程度上说，复制了我的象征画，因为人人都开始模仿它。这是纽约时报上的一则广告有人为一场叫“头脑游戏”的戏剧设计的。然后芝加哥出现了，适用了更多的图形，然后公共剧场的象征画算是完全地被夺走了，也就是说我要修改它了。所以，我修改了它，这样每一季都不同，我继续设计这些宣传画，因为它们从来没有我在第一次创作象征画的艺术严肃性，因为它们太个体化了，他们没有同等价值让每件事都变成相同的。现在，我想着既然公共剧场，我需要做比那些主流机构所作的还要多，在文化象征画上，我从来没有想过，—我又一次把握住严肃性设计—在纽约市我为非常大型的，重要的机构设计。
en:I did these things, and I still do them.I still work for the Public Theater.I&#39;m on their board, andI still am involved with it.The high point of the Public Theater, I think, was in 1996,two years after I designed it,which was the &quot;Bring in &#39;da Noise, Bring in &#39;da Funk&quot; campaignthat was all over New York.But something happened to it, and what happened to it was,it became very popular.And that is a kiss of death for something seriousbecause it makes it solemn.And what happened wasthat New York City, to a degree,ate my identitybecause people began to copy it.Here&#39;s an ad in the New York Timessomebody did for a play called &quot;Mind Games.&quot;Then &quot;Chicago&quot; came out, used similar graphics,and the Public Theater&#39;s identity was just totally eaten and taken away,which meant I had to change it.So, I changed it so that every season was different,and I continued to do these posters,but they never had the seriousnessof the first identitybecause they were too individual, and they didn&#39;t have that heftof everything being the same thing.Now — and I think since the Public Theater,I must have done more than a dozencultural identities for major institutions,and I don&#39;t think I ever — I evergrasped that seriousness again —I do them for very big, important institutionsin New York City.
时间：12:05
zh-cn:机构是很庄重的，设计也是一样。它们比公共剧场要更容易制造，它们花更多的钱，但是我认为那样的时光会过去。完成严肃的设计最好的方式是—我认为我们都有机会去做—那就是完完全全地不能胜任这份工作。这并不经常发生，但是2000年却发生在我身上，基于某些原因，整个的不同设计师团队开始要我跟他们一起设计剧场内部，我会设计环境型图案并将他们融入建筑中。我从来没有做过这样的工作。我不知道如何看懂建筑计划，我不知道他们都在讲什么，我真的不能接受这个事实—这份工作能够持续四年的时间，因为我习惯了平面设计的直接，那种对细节的关注对于我这样有多动症的人来说是很不好的。
en:The institutions are solemn,and so is the design.They&#39;re better crafted than the Public Theater was,and they spend more money on them, but I thinkthat that moment comes and goes.The best way to accomplish serious design —which I think we all have the opportunity to do —is to be totally and completely unqualified for the job.That doesn&#39;t happen very often,but it happened to me in the year 2000,when for some reason or another,a whole pile of different architectsstarted to ask me to designthe insides of theaters with them,where I would take environmental graphics and work them into buildings.I&#39;d never done this kind of work before.I didn&#39;t know how to read an architectural plan,I didn&#39;t know what they were talking about,and I really couldn&#39;t handle the fact that a job —a single job — could go on for four yearsbecause I was used to immediacy in graphic design,and that kind of attention to detailwas really bad for somebody like me, with ADD.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:很艰难—很艰难的过程，但是我爱上了这个过程就是将图片和建筑结合在一起的过程，因为我不知道我在做什么。我说，“为什么这个标志不能放在地面上呢？”纽约人看看他们的脚。然后我发现演员们实际上从地面上找寻线索，所以这些信号系统变得有意义了。它们同整个建筑结合起来，通过特别的方式。它们在角落，它们在建筑的四周，它们同整个建筑合并在一起。这是在第90大街和百老汇上的交响乐空间，类型是不锈钢和背光光纤交织在一起。建筑师，Jim Polshek,基本上给了我一块油画布要我做活版印刷。这是个严肃的活。这是在宾夕法尼亚州的匹斯堡儿童博物馆，全是由不昂贵的材料建成。挤压排版背光霓虹灯。我从来没有做过的东西。我只是觉得做起来会很好玩儿。捐赠者的墙用璐彩特制成。然后，便宜的标志。
en:So, it was a rough — it was a rough go,but I fell in love with this processof actually integrating graphics into architecturebecause I didn&#39;t know what I was doing.I said, &quot;Why can&#39;t the signage be on the floor?&quot;New Yorkers look at their feet.And then I found that actors and actressesactually take their cues from the floor,so it turned out that these sorts of sign systemsbegan to make sense.They integrated with the building in really peculiar ways.They ran around corners,they went up sides of buildings,and they melded into the architecture.This is Symphony Space on 90th Street and Broadway,and the type is interwoven into the stainless steeland backlit with fiber optics.And the architect, Jim Polshek,essentially gave me a canvasto play typography out on.And it was serious play.This is the children&#39;s museum in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,made out of completely inexpensive materials.Extruded typography that&#39;s backlit with neon.Things I never did before, built before.I just thought they&#39;d be kind of fun to do.Donors&#39; walls made out of Lucite.And then, inexpensive signage.
时间：14:12
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：14:18
zh-cn:我想我最喜欢的是在新泽西纽沃克的一个小工程。那是个艺术学校。一栋建筑—他们没钱建，他们必须改造它，他们说到，如果我们给你10万，你会怎么做?我用Photoshop设计了一下，我说，嗯，我们可以重新刷墙。我们就这么做了。也成功了。还有另外一栋建筑。所有的东西都刷过了—活版印刷整个的建筑，包括空调管道。我雇用刷公寓的人来整理周边的车库给整个建筑刷上颜色，他们很喜爱这个工作。他们投入进去—他们很严肃地对待这个工作。他们原先是爬到屋顶上，然后给我打电话告诉我他们需要校正我的活版印刷—我的排版错了，他们要移动，他们做得很棒。他们很严肃。完成的很好。
en:I think my favorite of thesewas this little job in Newark, New Jersey.It&#39;s a performing arts school.This is the building that — they had no money,and they had to recast it, and they said,if we give you 100,000 dollars, what can you do with it?And I did a little Photoshop job on it, and I said,Well, I think we can paint it.And we did. And it was play.And there&#39;s the building. Everything was painted —typography over the whole damn thing,including the air conditioning ducts.I hired guys who paint flatsfixed on the sides of garagesto do the painting on the building, and they loved it.They got into it — they took the job incredibly seriously.They used to climb up on the building and call meand tell me that they had to correct my typography —that my spacing was wrong, and they moved it,and they did wonderful things with it.They were pretty serious, too. It was quite wonderful.
时间：15:09
zh-cn:当我设计彭博总部的时候，我的工作刚刚被人认可。人们希望它在很大型，昂贵的地方。那开始让它变得庄重。彭博全部都是关于数字，我们将数字贯穿于空间，数字被设计在特别的LED上，我的合作伙伴，Lisa Strausfeld，设计了程序。但是，它成为了这次严肃的艺术展的结局，开始了，又一次的，庄重。目前这个项目在宾西法尼亚州的匹斯堡，这也是我变得愚蠢的地方。我被邀请来设计一个叫做北边地方的标志，我认为邻居有个标志是很好笑的。我认为这相当不自然。邻居为什么要有个标志呢？邻居有—地标，有个地方，有饭馆。没有标志。我的意思是说，标志能是什么?
en:By the time I did Bloomberg&#39;s headquartersmy work had begun to become accepted.People wanted it in big, expensive places.And that began to make it solemn.Bloomberg was all about numbers,and we did big numbers through the spaceand the numbers were projected on a spectacular LEDthat my partner, Lisa Strausfeld, programmed.But it became the endof the seriousness of the play,and it started to, once again, become solemn.This is a current projectin Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,where I got to be goofy.I was invited to designa logo for this neighborhood, called the North Side,and I thought it was silly for a neighborhood to have a logo.I think that&#39;s rather creepy, actually. Why would a neighborhood have a logo?A neighborhood has a thing — it&#39;s got a landmark, it&#39;s got a place,it&#39;s got a restaurant. It doesn&#39;t have a logo. I mean, what would that be?
时间：16:02
zh-cn:我实际上要给市政府和邻居机构作个演讲，我去了匹斯堡，说到，“你知道，你在这里拥有的都是隧道，这些隧道将邻居从镇中心分离开。为什么你们不庆祝他们，将隧道标记出来呢？”我开始了这个疯狂的演讲向这些装置—潜在的装置-关于隧道的桥梁，站在市政府的面前—我有点害怕，我要承认。但是，我确确实实不适合这项工程，很不适合，忽略了主体，我认为他们只是全心全意地接受它，只是因为它开始是很笨的。这就是他们实际建造的，我们说准备这个桥梁。每六月改变一次，变成在匹斯堡的北边的一种艺术装置，它可能会成为这个地区的地标。
en:So I had to actually give a presentationto a city counciland neighborhood constituents,and I went to Pittsburgh and I said,&quot;You know, really what you have hereare all these underpassesthat separate the neighborhood from the center of town.Why don&#39;t you celebrate them, and make the underpasses landmarks?&quot;So I began doing this crazy presentationof these installations —potential installations — onthese underpass bridges,and stood up in front of the city council —and was a little bit scared,I have to admit.But I was so utterly unqualified for this project,and so utterly ridiculous,and ignored the brief so desperatelythat I think they just embraced it with wholeheartedness,just completely because it was so goofy to begin with.And this is the bridge they&#39;re actuallypainting up and preparing as we speak.It will change every six months, and it will become an art installationin the North Side of Pittsburgh,and it will probably become a landmark in the area.
时间：17:08
zh-cn:约翰霍肯伯里告诉了大家关于我去花旗银行的经历，到现在已经是10年的工作关系了，我还在为他们工作。我实际上喜欢他们，他们能引人发笑，想想那是一家非常，非常，非常大的大公司，他们的确将他们的图片保存的很好。在第一次会议上，我在一张纸巾上画了花旗银行的标志。那是工作的一部分。然后，我花了一年的时间参加长期的，乏味的，无趣的会议，希望将这个标志卖给一家大公司卖在点子上。我想我今年年底要疯了。我们做些无聊的演讲展示花旗银行的标识如何有意义，它如何真的从一把伞演变出来，我们将这些稍作变化，我们反反复复，反反复复。这很值得，因为他们买了这个标识，它也发挥了重要的作用，它变成国际上都皆知的标识，但是对于我来说，这实际上是一个非常，非常沮丧的一年。实际上，他们从来没有买标识直到法伦适用了标识它很棒的&quot;富有地生活“竞争，然后，全世界每个人都接受了它。
en:John Hockenberry told you a bit aboutmy travail with Citibank,that is now a 10-year relationship, and I still work with them.And I actually am amused by them and like them,and think that as a very, very, very, very, very big corporationthey actually keep their graphics very nice.I drew the logo for Citibankon a napkin in the first meeting.That was the play part of the job.And then I spent a yeargoing to long, tedious,boring meetings,trying to sell this logo throughto a huge corporationto the point of tears.I thought I was going to go crazy at the end of this year.We made idiotic presentationsshowing how the Citi logo made sense,and how it was really derived from an umbrella,and we made animations of these things,and we came back and forth and back and forth and back and forth.And it was worth it, because they bought this thing,and it played out on such a grand scale,and it&#39;s so internationally recognizable,but for me it was actually a very, very depressing year.As a matter of fact, they actually never bought onto the logountil Fallon put it onits very good &quot;Live Richly&quot; campaign,and then everybody accepted it all over the world.
时间：18:21
zh-cn:这个时候，我需要一些平衡为这个疯狂的事实我去参加那些冗长的无聊的会议。我在我乡村的房子里，基于某些原因，我开始绘制这些非常大的，复杂的，包括了整个世界的地图，列出这个星球上每一个地方，然后画进去，再拼错地名，放进错误的地方，完完全全地控制信息，完完全全的着迷了。起初花了我六个月的时间，然后我绘图变得越来越快。这是美国。美国的每一个城市都在上面。它在库珀休伊特展示了大概八个月，人们前来看它，他们指着绘制地图上的一部分说“哦，我到过这里。”当然，他们不可能到过这里，因为那是个错误的位置。（笑声）但是我喜欢的是我掌控着我自己错置的信息，我创造了我自己的信息调色板，我完完全全地在玩儿。其中我最喜爱的一个是我在2000年竞选后画的佛罗里达州在水中游荡的是竞选结果。我将它作为证据。
en:So during this time I neededsome kind of counterbalancefor this crazy, crazy existenceof going to these long, idiotic meetings.And I was up in my country house,and for some reason, I began paintingthese very big, very involved,laborious, complicatedmaps of the entire world,and listing every place on the planet, and putting them in,and misspelling them, and putting things in the wrong spot,and completely controlling the information,and going totally and completely nuts with it.They would take me about six months initially,but then I started getting faster at it.Here&#39;s the United States.Every single city of the United States is on here.And it hung for about eight monthsat the Cooper-Hewitt, and people walked up to it,and they would point to a part of the mapand they&#39;d say, &quot;Oh, I&#39;ve been here.&quot;And, of course, they couldn&#39;t have been because it&#39;s in the wrong spot.(Laughter)But what I liked about it was,I was controlling my own idiotic information,and I was creating my own palette of information,and I was totally and completelyat play.One of my favorites wasthis painting I did of Florida after the 2000 electionthat has the election results rolling around in the water.I keep that for evidence.
时间：19:36
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：19:37
zh-cn:一些人来到我的屋里，看到那些油画推荐我把它们送去某个画廊，而我在大约两年半以前有过第一次展览，我展示了那些油画就是我现在展示给你们的这些。然后一件有意思的事情发生了——它们被卖掉了。卖得还非常快，最后甚至非常畅销。我们开始印刷这些油画。这是曼哈顿，那些系列里的一幅。这是一幅我们用红，白，蓝三色绘制的美国系列中的一幅。我们又开始用大型的丝网来印刷，它们也开始畅销。因此，两年后，画廊想让我再办一次展览，这意味着，我不得不以我从未有的更快速度来创作绘画。而我的绘画开始变的更加政治化，我选择的领域有来自于新闻消息的或者是我有灵感的，我开始做这些事情。
en:Somebodywas up at my house and saw the paintingsand recommended them to a gallery,and I had a first showabout two-and-a-half years ago, and I showed these paintingsthat I&#39;m showing you now.And then a funny thing happened — they sold.And they sold quickly,and became rather popular.We started making prints from them.This is Manhattan, one from the series.This is a print from the United States which we did in red, white and blue.We began doing these big silkscreen prints,and they started selling, too.So, the gallery wanted me to have another showin two years,which meant that I reallyhad to paint these paintingsmuch fasterthan I had ever done them. And I —they started to become more political, and I picked areasthat sort of were in the newsor that I had some feeling about,and I began doing these things.
时间：20:36
zh-cn:然后就发生了这件有趣的事。我发现我不再是在发挥了。我处在了一种完全是为了展览而充满期待的郑重其事的境地之中，这与我的初衷完全不一样。因此，当这些作品变得异常成功时，我知道了如何去制作它们，因此我并不是一个新手，但它们也不再严肃了——它们变得非常的郑重。这是一个非常可怕的事情——当你开始去做某件事情，但却事与愿违——因为它意味着你所要做的就是回过头去，找出你要做的下一件事情是什么，那些你能努力争取的，或是你能有所创造的，或是你能完全无视的，或你能妄自尊大的，或是那些你也许会失败的，或是会让你看起来很愚蠢的。因为最终，这就是你成长的方式，而这正是最关键的地方。
en:And then this funny thing happened.I found that I was no longer at play.I was actually in this solemn landscapeof fulfilling an expectationfor a show,which is not where I started with these things.So, while they became successful,I know how to make them,so I&#39;m not a neophyte,and they&#39;re no longer serious —they have become solemn.And that&#39;s a terrifying factor —when you start something and it turns that way —because it means that all that&#39;s left for youis to go back and to find outwhat the next thing is that you can push,that you can invent, that you can be ignorant about,that you can be arrogant about,that you can fail with,and that you can be a fool with.Because in the end, that&#39;s how you grow,and that&#39;s all that matters.
时间：21:29
zh-cn:所以，我在这里不知疲倦的努力工作——（笑声）而且我马上就要去炸掉这座楼梯。非常感谢。
en:So, I&#39;m plugging along here —(Laughter)and I&#39;m just going to have to blow up the staircase.Thank you very much.
