时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在我小时候，它们是我的玩伴。
en:So when I was a kid ...this was my team.
时间： 0:15
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:16
zh-cn:我运动很差，我既不喜欢玩，也不喜欢看，所以我玩的就是这个，钓鱼。从小到大，我在康涅狄格州的水边钓鱼，这些生物都是我经常见到的。但我长大后，上了大学，后来在1990年代初回到家乡时，我看到的只剩这些。我的玩伴变少了，这种感觉真就像自己的最佳阵容全部报销了。当我开始思考这件事，完全从一个钓鱼者的个人角度来看，我开始想弄明白，好吧，世界上其他人是怎么想的？
en:I stunk at sports.I didn&#39;t like to play them,I didn&#39;t like to watch them.So this is what I did. I went fishing.And for all of my growing upI fished on the shores of Connecticut,and these are the creaturesthat I saw on a regular basis.But after I grew up and went to college,and I came home in the early 90&#39;s,this is what I found.My team had shrunk.It was like literally havingyour roster devastated.And as I sort of looked into that,from a very personalpoint of view as a fisherman,I started to kind of figure out,well, what was the rest of the worldthinking about it?
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:首先我去看的地方是鱼市。当我前往鱼市，不管是在哪里—无论是在北卡罗来纳州、还是巴黎、还是伦敦或者别的地方—我不断看到四种生物组成的奇怪景像，一次又一次—在菜单上，在冰上—虾、鲔鱼、鲑鱼和鳕鱼。我觉得这样相当奇怪，看着它们，我就在想，难道没有别人注意到市面上的品种在减少吗？
en:First place I started to lookwas fish markets.And when I went to fish markets,in spite of where I was —whether I was in North Carolina,or Paris, or London, or wherever —I kept seeing this weirdlyrepeating trope of four creatures,again and again —on the menus, on ice —shrimp, tuna, salmon and cod.And I thought this was pretty strange,and as I looked at it, I was wondering,did anyone else noticethis sort of shrinking of the market?
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:嗯，随着我更深入的了解，我发现到人们并没有把它们看作活生生的伙伴，普通人眼里的海产品是这样的。把自然世界缩减到极少的几种要素，倒也没有违反人类本性。我们以前就干过，一万年前，我们走出洞穴时。如果看一下一万年前的篝火遗迹，可以看到浣熊，可以看到狼，可以看到各种不同的生物。但当你把目光转向两千年前，你会看到这四种哺乳动物：猪、牛、绵羊和山羊。鸟类也一样。如果看看纽约餐馆的菜单，在150年前、200年前，可以看到鹬、山鹬、松鸡、几十种鸭和几十种鹅。而继续把目光转向现代畜牧业的时代，则会看到四种：火鸡、鸭、鸡和鹅。
en:Well, when I looked into it,I realized that peopledidn&#39;t look at it as their team.Ordinary people, the way they lookedat seafood was like this.It&#39;s not an unusual human characteristicto reduce the natural worlddown to very few elements.We did it before, 10,000 years ago,when we came out of our caves.If you look at fire pitsfrom 10,000 years ago,you&#39;ll see raccoons,you&#39;ll see, you know, wolves,you&#39;ll see all kindsof different creatures.But if you telescope to the age of —you know, 2,000 years ago,you&#39;ll see these four mammals:pigs, cows, sheep and goats.It&#39;s true of birds, too.You look at the menusin New York City restaurants150 years ago, 200 years ago,you&#39;ll see snipe, woodcock, grouse,dozens of ducks, dozens of geese.But telescope ahead to the ageof modern animal husbandry,and you&#39;ll see four:turkeys, ducks, chicken and geese.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:所以才说，我们朝着减少市面品种的方向发展。但我们是怎么朝这个方向走的？嗯……首先这是个非常非常新的问题。这是过去50年间，我们在海洋里捕鱼的方式。二战极大地刺激了我们升级装备来向鱼类开战。我们在二战期间完善的所有技术—声纳、轻巧的聚合物—所有这些都转而用来对付鱼类。所以你可以看到捕捞量的惊人增长，从二战结束至今 ，足足翻了两番。那么现在，这就意味着我们每年从海洋里捞出八、九千万吨鱼类，这相当于每年从海里捞出，全体中国人的重量。我用中国作例子并非巧合，因为中国现在是世界最大的渔业国。
en:So it makes sensethat we&#39;ve headed in this direction.But how have we headed in this direction?Well ...first it&#39;s a very, very new problem.This is the way we&#39;ve been fishingthe oceans over the last 50 years.World War II was a tremendous incentiveto arm ourselves in a war against fish.All of the technologythat we perfected during World War II —sonar, lightweight polymers —all these thingswere redirected towards fish.And so you see this tremendous buildupin fishing capacity,quadrupling in the course of time,from the end of World War IIto the present time.And right now that meanswe&#39;re taking between 80 and 90 millionmetric tons out of the sea every year.That&#39;s the equivalentof the human weight of Chinataken out of the sea every year.And it&#39;s no coincidencethat I use China as the examplebecause China is nowthe largest fishing nation in the world.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:嗯，这才是故事的一半，故事的另一半，是水产养殖业的惊人发展，现在，也就是在过去一两年，已经超过了野生鱼类的捕捞量。所以如果把捕捞和养殖的鱼类加在一起，每年海洋里产出全体中国人总重量的两倍。再说一次，我用中国作例子并非巧合，因为中国不光是最大的捕鱼国，也是最大的水产养殖国。
en:Well, that&#39;s only half the story.The other half of the storyis this incredible boomin fish farming and aquaculture,which is now, onlyin the last year or two,starting to exceed the amountof wild fish that we produce.So that if you add wild fishand farmed fish together,you get the equivalentof two Chinas created from the oceaneach and every year.And again, it&#39;s not a coincidencethat I use China as the example,because China, in additionto being the biggest catcher of fish,is also the biggest farmer of fish.
时间： 3:29
zh-cn:让我们看看我们制造出来的四个选项。第一个—目前在美国和西方大部分国家里消费最广泛的海产品是虾。野生的虾—需要捕捞—作为渔业产品非常糟糕。要向市场提供一磅虾，通常会杀死5、10、甚至15磅的野生鱼类。而且捕虾业的燃油经济性也极差。达尔豪西大学最近进行的一项研究显示，拖网捕虾是二氧化碳排放最高的捕鱼方式之一。
en:So let&#39;s look though at the four choiceswe are making right now.The first one —by far the most consumed seafoodin America and in much of the West,is shrimp.Shrimp in the wild —as a wild product —is a terrible product.5, 10, 15 pounds of wild fishare regularly killedto bring one pound of shrimpto the market.They&#39;re also incredibly fuel inefficientto bring to the market.In a recent study that was producedout of Dalhousie University,it was found that dragging for shrimpis one of the most carbon-intensiveways of fishing that you can find.
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:当然虾也可以养殖，也的确有人养殖，他们通常在这类区域大量养殖。问题是—养虾的地方在这些野生栖息地里—在红树林里。看看这些往下生长的树根，是它们在固定土壤，保护海滩，为所有小鱼小虾创造了栖息地，保护了所有这些对环境非常重要的事物。这个，就是许多沿海红树林所面临的问题。过去30、40年间，我们损失了数百万英亩的沿海红树林。破坏速度虽然已经下降，但红树林的总量仍然严重不足。
en:So you can farm them,and people do farm them,and they farm them a lotin this very area.Problem is ...the place where you farm shrimpis in these wild habitats —in mangrove forests.Now look at those lovelyroots coming down.Those are the thingsthat hold soil together,protect coasts, create habitatsfor all sorts of young fish, young shrimp,all sorts of thingsthat are important to this environment.Well, this is what happensto a lot of coastal mangrove forests.We&#39;ve lost millions of acresof coastal mangrovesover the last 30 or 40 years.That rate of destruction has slowed,but we&#39;re stillin a major mangrove deficit.
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:这里还有另一个问题，就是电影制片人马克·本杰明所说的&quot;碾碎海洋生物&quot;现象。你在热带珊瑚礁所看到的一切都和这个现象高度相关。因为现在正在发生的是，捕虾船开过来捕虾，会捕到大量的副产品，这些副产品会被磨碎，变成虾的饲料。有的时候，许多这种船—都是奴工在工作—来捕捞这些所谓的“垃圾鱼类”，这些我们其实很乐于在珊瑚礁上见到的鱼类，把它们磨碎，然后变成虾的饲料—还真是一个自己吃自己然后吐出虾来的生态系统。
en:The other thing that&#39;s going on hereis a phenomenon that the filmmakerMark Benjamin called &quot;Grinding Nemo.&quot;This phenomenon is very, very relevantto anything that you&#39;ve ever seenon a tropical reef.Because what&#39;s going on right now,we have shrimp draggersdragging for shrimp,catching a huge amount of bycatch,that bycatch in turn gets ground upand turned into shrimp food.And sometimes, many of these vessels —manned by slaves —are catching these so-called &quot;trash fish,&quot;fish that we would love to see on a reef,grinding them upand turning them into shrimp feed —an ecosystem literally eating itselfand spitting out shrimp.
时间： 5:14
zh-cn:下一个美国消费最广泛的海产品，在整个西方也是，金枪鱼（也叫鲔鱼，吞拿鱼）。金枪鱼是顶级的全球性鱼类。这些巨大的管理区域都必须受到监控，以保证对金枪鱼捕捞进行良好管理。我们自己的管理区域，称为地区性渔业管理组织，简称 ICCAT，大西洋鲔类保育委员会。杰出的自然主义者卡尔·赛菲纳曾经称之为：“捞光所有金枪鱼国际阴谋会”。当然，我们看到ICCAT在过去两年的巨大进步，而且完全还有改进空间的，但仍然要强调的是，金枪鱼是一种全球性鱼类，要管理它，就必须全球管理。
en:The next most consumed seafood in America,and also throughout the West,is tuna.So tuna is this ultimate global fish.These huge management areashave to be observedin order for tuna to be well managed.Our own management area,called a Regional FisheriesManagement Organization,is called ICCAT,the International Commissionfor the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas.The great naturalistCarl Safina once called it,&quot;The International Conspiracyto Catch all the Tunas.&quot;Of course we&#39;ve seenincredible improvementin ICCAT in the last few years,there is total room for improvement,but it remains to be saidthat tuna is a global fish,and to manage it,we have to manage the globe.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:那好，我们也可以试试养殖，可对于水产养殖来说，金枪鱼极为糟糕。许多人不知道，金枪鱼其实是温血动物，它们可以使自己身体的温度比环境温度高20度，它们游泳的速度超过65公里每小时。所以这条基本把养殖鱼类的优点完全消灭了，对吧？一种养殖鱼类—最好是冷血鱼类，不怎么爱动，这样才有利于蛋白质生长。但如果养的是这样疯狂而野性的生物，游速65公里每小时，还能加热自己的血液—对水产养殖来说不是个好选择。
en:Well, we could also try to grow tunabut tuna is a spectacularly badanimal for aquaculture.Many people don&#39;t know thisbut tuna are warm-blooded.They can heat their bodies 20 degreesabove ambient temperature,they can swim at over 40 miles an hour.So that pretty much eliminatesall the advantagesof farming a fish, right?A farmed fish is —or a fish is cold-blooded,it doesn&#39;t move too much.That&#39;s a great thing for growing protein.But if you&#39;ve gotthis crazy, wild creaturethat swims at 40 miles an hourand heats its blood —not a great candidate for aquaculture.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:下一种生物—美国和整个西方最广泛消费的海产品—鲑鱼（也称三文鱼）现在鲑鱼也被扫荡一空了，但原因其实不是因为捕捞。这里是我的家乡康涅狄格州，康涅狄格州曾是许多野生鲑鱼的家乡。可如果看一看这张康涅狄格州地图，图上的每个点代表一个水坝，整个康涅狄格州有超过3,000座水坝。我常说这就是为什么康涅狄格人这么急脾气呢—
en:The next creature —most consumed seafood in Americaand throughout the West —is salmon.Now salmon got its plundering, too,but it didn&#39;t really necessarilyhappen through fishing.This is my home state of Connecticut.Connecticut used to be hometo a lot of wild salmon.But if you lookat this map of Connecticut,every dot on that map is a dam.There are over 3,000 damsin the state of Connecticut.I often say this is why peoplein Connecticut are so uptight —
时间： 6:53
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:要是有人能让康涅狄格通通气，我觉得世界会变得很美好。我在一次国家公园官员会议上特意提起过，有这么一位北卡罗来纳州的悄悄靠过来，说：“兄弟，你们康涅狄格这种算个啥啊，因为咱北卡罗来纳州，咱有35,000座坝嘞。”所以说全国都有这个问题，全世界都有这个问题，到处都有水坝，刚好就是这些水坝，挡住了鲑鱼的去路，让它们无法到达产卵处。
en:If somebody could justunblock Connecticut&#39;s chi,I feel that we could havean infinitely better world.But I made this particular commentat a convention onceof national parks officers,and this guy from North Carolinasidled up to me, he says,&quot;You know, you oughtn&#39;t be so hardon your Connecticut,cause we here in North Carolina,we got 35,000 dams.&quot;So it&#39;s a national epidemic,it&#39;s an international epidemic.And there are dams everywhere,and these are precisely the thingsthat stop wild salmonfrom reaching their spawning grounds.
时间： 7:25
zh-cn:因此呢，我们就转为养殖，而鲑鱼是最为成功的品种之一，至少许多人这样认为。当人们刚开始养殖鲑鱼时，要消耗六磅的野生鱼类才能产出一磅鲑鱼，这一产业已经大大进步了，的确有功劳，现在已经低于二比一了，虽然其中有一点欺骗性。因为如果看看养殖鱼饲料是如何生产的，是以这种一粒粒的饲料来计算的—饲料的磅数比鲑鱼的磅数，而饲料也是用鱼制造的。所以实际的鱼的投入和产出比—称为 FIFO—就不太好确定。但无论如何，鲑鱼养殖业有功劳，生产每磅鲑鱼所消耗的鱼类确实下降了。
en:So as a result,we&#39;ve turned to aquaculture,and salmon is one the most successful,at least from a numbers point of view.When they first started farming salmon,it could take as manyas six pounds of wild fishto make a single pound of salmon.The industry has, to its credit,greatly improved.They&#39;ve gotten it below two to one,although it&#39;s a little bit of a cheatbecause if you look at the wayaquaculture feed is produced,they&#39;re measuring pellets —pounds of pellets per pound of salmon.Those pellets are in turn reduced fish.So the actual — what&#39;s called the FIFO,the fish in and the fish out —kind of hard to say.But in any case,credit to the industry,it has lowered the amount of fishper pound of salmon.
时间： 8:04
zh-cn:问题是我们对鲑鱼产量太狂热了。水产养殖是这个星球上增长最快的食品体系，它大约每年增长7%。而虽然单位产量的鱼对应的代价变少了，我们仍然在杀死许多这样的小鱼。
en:Problem is we&#39;ve also gone crazywith the amount of salmonthat we&#39;re producing.Aquaculture is the fastest growingfood system on the planet.It&#39;s growing at somethinglike seven percent per year.And so even thoughwe&#39;re doing less per fishto bring it to the market,we&#39;re still killinga lot of these little fish.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:而且我们不光用鱼来喂鱼，我们还用鱼来喂鸡和猪。所以我们养的鸡吃鱼，但奇怪的是，我们养的鱼也有吃鸡的。因为鸡的副产品—羽毛、血、骨头—被磨碎然后喂鱼。所以我经常会想，会不会有鱼吃了鸡，那鸡又吃了鱼？这有点像是先有鸡还是先有蛋的变体。无论如何—
en:And it&#39;s not just fishthat we&#39;re feeding fish to,we&#39;re also feeding fishto chickens and pigs.So we&#39;ve got chickensand they&#39;re eating fish,but weirdly, we also have fishthat are eating chickens.Because the byproducts of chickens —feathers, blood, bone —get ground up and fed to fish.So I often wonder,is there a fish that atea chicken that ate a fish?It&#39;s sort of a reworkingof the chicken and egg thing. Anyway —
时间： 8:51
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:总的来说，结果是非常糟糕。我们看到的是，大约有二、三千万吨的野生生物从海洋里打捞出来，然后磨碎。这相当于三分之一中国人的重量，或全体美国人的重量，每年要从海里捞出来。
en:All together, though,it results in a terrible mess.What you&#39;re talking aboutis something between 20 and 30 millionmetric tons of wild creaturesthat are taken from the oceanand used and ground up.That&#39;s the equivalentof a third of a China,or of an entire United States of humansthat&#39;s taken out of the seaeach and every year.
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:四种鱼里的最后一种，含义有点模糊。行业内称之为“白鱼”，“白鱼”这个叫法实际包含了许多种鱼，但我想解释一下由来，要先提一下美国饮食革命中的经典桥段，麦香鱼堡。麦香鱼堡其实最先用的是比目鱼。事情的起因是：一家麦当劳加盟店的店主发现他在周五卖汉堡时，没有人来买。因为他是在一个天主教社区里，人们要吃鱼。所以他去找雷·克罗克，说：“我要做一种鱼肉汉堡，要用比目鱼做。”雷·克罗克说：“我不看好。我想做一种呼拉汉堡，在面包上放一片菠萝。不过这么着吧，我们打个赌，谁的汉堡更好卖，谁的汉堡就算胜出。”好吧，呼拉汉堡最后没有赢，对大海真是件悲伤的事，所以他就做了比目鱼堡。不过不妙的是，鱼堡卖30美分一个，雷希望降到25美分，所以他改用了大西洋鳕鱼。我们都知道新英格兰地区大西洋鳕鱼的遭遇（几乎灭绝）。
en:The last of the fouris a kind of amorphous thing.It&#39;s what the industry calls &quot;whitefish.&quot;There are many fish that get cycledinto this whitefish thingbut the way to kind of tellthe story, I think,is through that classic pieceof American culinary innovation,the Filet-O-Fish sandwich.So the Filet-O-Fish sandwichactually started as halibut.And it started becausea local franchise ownerfound that when he servedhis McDonald&#39;s on Friday, nobody came.Because it was a Catholiccommunity, they needed fish.So he went to Ray Kroc and he said,&quot;I&#39;m going to bring you a fish sandwich,going to be made out of halibut.&quot;Ray Kroc said, &quot;I don&#39;t thinkit&#39;s going to work.I want to do a Hula Burger,and there&#39;s going to bea slice of pineapple on a bun.But let&#39;s do this, let&#39;s have a bet.Whosever sandwich sells more,that will be the winning sandwich.&quot;Well, it&#39;s kind of sad for the oceanthat the Hula Burger didn&#39;t win.So he made his halibut sandwich.Unfortunately though,the sandwich came in at 30 cents.Ray wanted the sandwichto come in at 25 cents,so he turned to Atlantic cod.We all know what happened toAtlantic cod in New England.
时间：10:16
zh-cn:所以如今的麦香鱼堡用的是阿拉斯加黄线狭鳕，它是美国捕捞量最大的鱼类，每年捕捞20到30亿磅。如果黄线狭鳕捞完了，下一个选择很可能是罗非鱼。罗非鱼这种鱼，二十年前根本没人听说过。实际上它可以非常高效地将植物蛋白转化为动物蛋白，对于第三世界，它是天赐之物。它其实是一种极好的可持续发展解决方案，它从卵成长为成鱼只需九个月。问题是，如果对照西方世界的口味，西方所要的它没有。它没有这种所谓的“鱼油”卖点。它没有 EPA，DHA这些ω-3不饱和脂肪酸，这些我们觉得吃了可以长生不老的东西。
en:So now the Filet-O-Fish sandwichis made out of Alaska pollock,it&#39;s the largest fin fish fisheryin the United States,2 to 3 billion pounds of fishtaken out of the sea every single year.If we go through the pollock,the next choice is probablygoing to be tilapia.Tilapia is one of those fishnobody ever heard of 20 years ago.It&#39;s actually a very efficient converterof plant protein into animal protein,and it&#39;s been a godsendto the third world.It&#39;s actually a tremendouslysustainable solution,it goes from an eggto an adult in nine months.The problem is that when youlook about the West,it doesn&#39;t do what the Westwants it to do.It really doesn&#39;t have what&#39;s calledan oily fish profile.It doesn&#39;t have the EPA and DHA omega-3sthat we all think are goingto make us live forever.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:那我们该怎么办？首先来说，这种小鱼怎么样，鲱鱼？在上面提到的二、三千万吨里，这种鱼占了很大一部分。其实，许多保护主义者都提到这种可能性，它可不可以吃？我们可不可以直接吃它，而不是用来喂鲑鱼？对此还有些争论。让这种鱼上市的燃油经济性极高，比如和虾比，燃油消耗只是个零头，而且它在碳效率上也是在最前列。它也富含ω-3不饱和脂肪酸，是EPA和DHA的良好来源，所以这是个优点。如果我们从这点说开来，我想说的是，与其在每磅上支出几美元—实际是每吨几美元—用来把它变成鱼饲料，我们是不是可以将捕捞量减半，让价格提升一倍，以此作为我们对待这些鱼类的做法吗？
en:So what do we do?I mean, first of all,what about this poor fish, the clupeids?The fish that represent a huge partof that 20 to 30 million metric tons.Well, one possibilitythat a lot of conservationists have raisedis could we eat them?Could we eat them directlyinstead of feeding them to salmon?There are arguments for it.They are tremendously fuel efficientto bring to market,a fraction of the fuel costof say, shrimp,and at the very topof the carbon efficiency scale.They also are omega-3 rich,a great source for EPA and DHA.So that is a potential.And if we were to go down that routewhat I would say is,instead of paying a few bucks a pound —or a few bucks a ton, really —and making it into aquafeed,could we halve the catchand double the price for the fishermenand make that our wayof treating these particular fish?
时间：11:48
zh-cn:而另一种可能选择就更有意思了，就是双壳贝类，尤其是贻贝。贻贝的EPA和DHA含量非常高，和鲔鱼罐头相似。同样燃油经济性极高。上市一磅贻贝的碳排放，只有上市一磅牛肉的十三分之一。它们也不用吃鱼，它们实际上可以过滤水中的藻类得到自己的ω-3不饱和脂肪酸。实际上这也是ω-3不饱和脂肪酸的来源，并不是来自鱼。ω-3不饱和脂肪酸是藻类制造的，只是在鱼类体内进行生物富集。
en:Other possibility though,which is much more interesting,is looking at bivalves,particularly mussels.Now, mussels are very high in EPA and DHA,they&#39;re similar to canned tuna.They&#39;re also extremely fuel efficient.To bring a pound of mussels to marketis about a thirtieth of the carbonas required to bring beef to market.They require no forage fish,they actually get their omega-3sby filtering the water of microalgae.In fact, that&#39;s where omega-3s come from,they don&#39;t come from fish.Microalgae make the omega-3s,they&#39;re only bioconcentrated in fish.
时间：12:18
zh-cn:贻贝和其它双壳贝类能过滤大量的水。每只贻贝每天能过滤几十加仑的水，这点对于世界来说非常重要。如今，水体中过量的氮和磷导致藻类疯长。在过去20年里已经出现了超过400个死亡地带，大量的海洋生物死亡。
en:Mussels and other bivalvesdo tremendous amounts of water filtration.A single mussel can filterdozens of gallons every single day.And this is incredibly importantwhen we look at the world.Right now, nitrification,overuse of phosphates in our waterwaysare causing tremendous algal blooms.Over 400 new dead zoneshave been created in the last 20 years,tremendous sources of marine life death.
时间：12:43
zh-cn:我们还完全可以考虑不是鱼的，比如蔬菜，比如海带，褐藻，它们有许多不同品种，均富含ω-3不饱和脂肪酸，富含蛋白质，非常好的东西。它们也和贻贝一样能过滤水，而且奇特之处在于，它还真的可以用来喂牛。我不太支持养牛业，但如果你希望能继续养牛，而所处的时令和地区水资源又有限，就可以在水里种海带，还不用浇水—很值得考虑。
en:We also could look at not a fish at all.We could look at a vegetable.We could look at seaweed, the kelps,all these different varieties of thingsthat can be high in omega-3s,can be high in proteins,tremendously good things.They filter the waterjust like mussels do.And weirdly enough,it turns out that youcan actually feed this to cows.Now, I&#39;m not a big fan of cattle.But if you wanted to keep growing cattlein a time and placewhere water resources are limited,you&#39;re growing seaweed in the water,you don&#39;t have to water it —major consideration.
时间：13:13
zh-cn:最后一种鱼是一个问号。我们有能力创造出一种养殖鱼类，它能提供净增量的海洋蛋白质，它应当是吃素的，它应当生长迅速，它应当能适应气候变化，而且要有“鱼油”卖点，EPA 和 DHA 这些我们希望有的ω-3不饱和脂肪酸。
en:And the last fish is a question mark.We have the abilityto create aquacultured fishthat creates a net gainof marine protein for us.This creature would have to be vegetarian,it would have to be fast growing,it would have to be adaptableto a changing climateand it would have to havethat oily fish profile,that EPA, DHA, omega-3fatty acid profile that we&#39;re looking for.
时间：13:36
zh-cn:这似乎只存在于纸面上。15年来我一直在报导这方面的话题，每次我写一个新故事，都会有人告诉我，“我们都能做到，我们都能解决，我们能创造出这样的一种鱼，能提供净增量的海洋蛋白质和ω-3不饱和脂肪酸。”很好。但这件事看来发展得不够快，是时候加快迅速了。如果我们做得到，那么就有三千万吨的海产品，世界捕捞量的三分之一，能留在海里。
en:This exists kind of on paper.I have been reportingon these subjects for 15 years.Every time I do a new story,somebody tells me,&quot;We can do all that. We can do it.We&#39;ve figured it all out.We can produce a fishthat&#39;s a net gain of marine proteinand has omega-3s.&quot;Great.It doesn&#39;t seem to be getting scaled up.It is time to scale this up.If we do,30 million metric tons of seafood,a third of the world catch,stays in the water.
时间：14:04
zh-cn:所以我想说的就是，这就是我们走过的路。我们总是喜欢口味决定脑袋，而不是相反。但如果我们改成这样，或者组合上有些改变，那这些就可能会多一些。
en:So I guess what I&#39;m saying isthis is what we&#39;ve been going with.We tend to go with our appetitesrather than our minds.But if we went with this,or some configuration of it,we might have a little more of this.
时间：14:18
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:19
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
