时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在印度，如果你先天失明你必须为之奋斗的有两件事第一接受治疗的机会极为微小，或者说近乎没有因为在这个国家大部分的眼科治疗都仅仅集中提供给成人只有极少极少数的医院才有针对儿童的医疗设备其实，就算能够接受治疗也很有可能你的主治医生根本没有医学证书拉贾斯坦的这个例子就是这样她是个孤儿，只有三岁患有先天性白内障于是她的看护人带她到乡村诊所看病赤脚医生没有向看护人建议让这个女孩子去正规医院恰恰相反，他决定以烧红的铁条灼烧她的小腹说是用来驱魔 :(另一则不幸的消息你会了解到的是神经学家说如果你是四到五岁以上视力才得以恢复大脑学习去看东西的机会已经微乎其微像第一条一样，几近没有机会。。。
en:If you are a blind child in India,you will very likely have to contend withat least two big pieces of bad news.The first bad newsis that the chances of getting treatmentare extremely slim to none,and that&#39;s because most of the blindnessalleviation programs in the countryare focused on adults,and there are very, very few hospitalsthat are actually equipped to treat children.In fact, if you were to be treated,you might well end up being treatedby a person who has no medical credentialsas this case from Rajasthan illustrates.This is a three-year-old orphan girlwho had cataracts.So, her caretakers took herto the village medicine man,and instead of suggesting to the caretakersthat the girl be taken to a hospital,the person decided to burn her abdomenwith red-hot iron barsto drive out the demons.The second piece of bad newswill be delivered to youby neuroscientists, who will tell youthat if you are older than four or five years of age,that even if you have your eye corrected,the chances of your brain learning how to seeare very, very slim —again, slim or none.
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:听到这两件事我陷入了深深的烦恼有个人背景方面的原因也有科学原因先从个人方面说起吧听起来稀松平常，但我是非常认真的那就是我的儿子，Darius作为一个刚刚晋升的父亲我从内心深处有种奇妙的感觉小宝宝是多么的纤细微妙，那些对他们应尽的责任以及深深的爱护面对孩子时我会不由自主的有所感应我愿意上天入地只为Darius的健康成长当我被告知有那么多其他的Darius没得到任何治疗这简直是大错特错！这，就是我的个人原因
en:So when I heard these two things,it troubled me deeply,both because of personal reasonsand scientific reasons.So let me first start with the personal reason.It&#39;ll sound corny, but it&#39;s sincere.That&#39;s my son, Darius.As a new father,I have a qualitatively different senseof just how delicate babies are,what our obligations are towards themand how much lovewe can feel towards a child.I would move heaven and earthin order to get treatment for Darius,and for me to be toldthat there might be other Dariuseswho are not getting treatment,that&#39;s just viscerally wrong.So that&#39;s the personal reason.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:科学研究方面，神经学长久以来的这种说法认为当大脑超过四到五岁时将会失去学习能力我并不赞同因为我不觉得此理论有广泛的实践基础这个理论来自于大卫胡伯和维塞尔的研究他们是哈佛大学的两位学者于1981年赢得诺贝尔奖其课题是视觉生理学那是一项非比寻常的研究但我相信他们的一些工作在推断的基础上过早的进入了人类范围事实上，他们用猫咪做实验证实了不同残疾种类的行为这些研究已经是六十年代的产物现在却还在被用于分析我们的孩子
en:Scientific reason is that this notionfrom neuroscience of critical periods —that if the brain is olderthan four or five years of age,it loses its ability to learn —that doesn&#39;t sit well with me,because I don&#39;t think that ideahas been tested adequately.The birth of the idea is fromDavid Hubel and Torsten Wiesel&#39;s work,two researchers who were at Harvard,and they got the Nobel Prize in 1981for their studies of visual physiology,which are remarkably beautiful studies,but I believe some of their workhas been extrapolatedinto the human domain prematurely.So, they did their work with kittens,with different kinds of deprivation regiments,and those studies,which date back to the &#39;60s,are now being applied to human children.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:就这样，我认定自己需要做两件事第一: 为得不到治疗的儿童们提供关照这是人道主义职责所在科学的职责在于要去学习视觉系统延伸的极限很显然，这两项任务放在一起会是多么的珠联璧合彼此密不可分这般如此，为了实施此两个任务几年前我发起了普拉卡项目普拉卡，你们也许知道在梵语中意为 光明我们希望能给孩子们的生命中带来光明同时有机会搞定一些神经学上的迷思它的图标，尽管看起来特别像爱尔兰文字其实是源自古印度代表大地之神的明灯普拉卡 总的来说专注于三个方面从长计议，去帮助需要关爱治疗和学习的孩子们现在我要播放一段视频来展示前两个方面
en:So I felt that I needed to do two things.One: provide careto children who are currentlybeing deprived of treatment.That&#39;s the humanitarian mission.And the scientific mission would beto test the limitsof visual plasticity.And these two missions, as you can tell,thread together perfectly. One adds to the other;in fact, one would be impossible without the other.So, to implementthese twin missions,a few years ago, I launched Project Prakash.Prakash, as many of you know,is the Sanskrit word for light,and the idea is thatin bringing light into the lives of children,we also have a chanceof shedding light on some of thedeepest mysteries of neuroscience.And the logo — even though it looks extremely Irish,it&#39;s actually derived fromthe Indian symbol of Diya, an earthen lamp.The Prakash, the overall efforthas three components:outreach, to identify children in need of care;medical treatment; and in subsequent study.And I want to show you a short video clipthat illustrates the first two components of this work.
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:这个长远的安置引导着盲童学校
en:This is an outreach stationconducted at a school for the blind.
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:画外音：大部分孩子都是重度永久性的失明
en:(Text: Most of the children are profoundly and permanently blind ...)
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:教授：由于这是所盲人学校很多孩子的情况一生都无法治愈这就是小眼症也称眼部发育畸形一种永久性的损害无法治愈这一例是极端小眼症叫做眼球内陷尽管情况如此糟糕，我们还是会遇到有些孩子留有少许视力这是非常好的迹象说明这种病例有治疗的希望我们把类似这样经过挑选的孩子送进医院观察我们与这家坐落在德里的医院合作斯沃夫慈善眼科医院它有个设备精良的儿童眼科中心多亏了罗兰 麦当劳的慷慨捐助使其成为可能你看，多吃点儿汉堡包真的有用
en:Pawan Sinha: So, because this is a school for the blind,many children have permanent conditions.That&#39;s a case of microphthalmos,which is malformed eyes,and that&#39;s a permanent condition;it cannot be treated.That&#39;s an extreme of micropthalmoscalled enophthalmos.But, every so often, we come across childrenwho show some residual vision,and that is a very good signthat the condition might actually be treatable.So, after that screening, we bring the children to the hospital.That&#39;s the hospital we&#39;re working with in Delhi,the Schroff Charity Eye Hospital.It has a very well-equippedpediatric ophthalmic center,which was made possible in partby a gift from the Ronald McDonald charity.So, eating burgers actually helps.
时间： 5:41
zh-cn:文字：（这类的检测使我们提高了许多孩子的眼部健康状况并且协助我们寻找那些可以参与普拉卡计划的孩子们）
en:(Text: Such examinations allow us to improveeye-health in many children, and ...... help us find children who can participate in Project Prakash.)
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:近距离观察这个孩子的眼睛你会看见是什么使他失明你看瞳孔中间的这块白斑是先天性白内障挡住眼球水晶体我们眼睛里的水晶体是透明的但是这个孩子，他的水晶体变得浑浊就这样儿，他什么都看不见于是这个孩子接受了治疗，注意看他眼部的照片这是那只盲眼拿出浑浊的晶状体用树脂晶状体取代同样的孩子手术3个星期后右眼看得见了
en:PS: So, as I zoom in to the eyes of this child,you will see the cause of his blindness.The whites that you see in the middle of his pupilsare congenital cataracts,so opacities of the lens.In our eyes, the lens is clear,but in this child, the lens has become opaque,and therefore he can&#39;t see the world.So, the child is given treatment. You&#39;ll see shots of the eye.Here&#39;s the eye with the opaque lens,the opaque lens extractedand an acrylic lens inserted.And here&#39;s the same childthree weeks post-operation,with the right eye open.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 6:42
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:从这段小影片中，你已经了解到康复是有可能的目前我们已经为超过200名儿童提供了治疗故事在重复上演着进过治疗，这些孩子们的视力得到极大的进步其实，同样的示例发生在失明多年的病患身上几年前我们有篇论文就是关于右边这位妇女的故事她晚年才开始看见东西的她的视力在这个年龄段是非常出色的我得加个悲剧桥段两年前她去世了死于巴士车祸她是个真实而激动人心的示例尽管无法得知未来会怎样，不过非常激励我们当我们开始寻找这类示例时能够想象，在科学界和流行出版行业激起过一些浪潮这是刊登在《自然》 上面的文章描述这项工作时代周刊也曾经报道我们十分信服回复是很有可能的即使是针对长期视力衰弱
en:So, even from that little clip, you can begin to get the sensethat recovery is possible,and we have nowprovided treatment to over 200 children,and the story repeats itself.After treatment, the childgains significant functionality.In fact, the story holds trueeven if you have a person who got sightafter several years of deprivation.We did a paper a few years agoabout this woman that you see on the right, SRD,and she got her sight late in life,and her vision is remarkable at this age.I should add a tragic postscript to this —she died two years agoin a bus accident.So, hers is just a truly inspiring story —unknown, but inspiring story.So when we started finding these results,as you might imagine, it created quite a bit of stirin the scientific and the popular press.Here&#39;s an article in Naturethat profiled this work,and another one in Time.So, we were fairly convinced — we are convinced —that recovery is feasible,despite extended visual deprivation.
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:下一个问题显然就是恢复的过程是怎样呢？我们是这么进行研究的：先要寻找一个对光线敏感的孩子给他进行治疗我想要强调一点这类治疗是完全免费的无需置疑我们治疗非常多的孩子们，通过他们开展工作每个需要的孩子都会治疗治疗过后的几乎每个星期♪我们给孩子进行简单的视觉测试从而观察他们的进步是符合预期效果的我们试着去做，越多越好这条发展之路给了我们前所未有极为珍贵的信息学习视力框架是如何构建的其中早期发展技巧与后期发展有什么因果联系吗？
en:The next obvious question to ask:What is the process of recovery?So, the way we study that is,let&#39;s say we find a child who has light sensitivity.The child is provided treatment,and I want to stress that the treatmentis completely unconditional;there is no quid pro quo.We treat many more children then we actually work with.Every child who needs treatment is treated.After treatment, about every week,we run the childon a battery of simple visual testsin order to see how their visual skillsare coming on line.And we try to do this for as long as possible.This arc of developmentgives us unprecedentedand extremely valuable informationabout how the scaffolding of visiongets set up.What might be the causal connectionsbetween the early developing skillsand the later developing ones?
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:我们用类似的方式来学习很多不同的视觉能力但是我想要特别强调其中的一种那就是怎样把图像解析为物体看，你现在看到在左边任一种图像不论是真的物体或者是人造的都以小的区域构成就是中间的这些小东西这些区域有各式各样的颜色，光泽大脑用其复杂的结构来吸取判断小区域中更小的部分转化成有意义的信息告诉我们哪些是真实的物体像你在右侧看到的这样没人知道这个过程是怎么发生的这就是我们在普拉卡课题上的挑战
en:And we&#39;ve used this general approach to studymany different visual proficiencies,but I want to highlight one particular one,and that is image parsing into objects.So, any image of the kind that you see on the left,be it a real image or a synthetic image,it&#39;s made up of little regionsthat you see in the middle column,regions of different colors, different luminances.The brain has this complex taskof putting together, integrating,subsets of these regionsinto something that&#39;s more meaningful,into what we would consider to be objects,as you see on the right.And nobody knows how this integration happens,and that&#39;s the question we asked with Project Prakash.
时间： 9:33
zh-cn:其实是这样的得到视觉不久这个人几周前刚刚复明这位是伊坦迈尔，麻省理工大学的学生在与他做实验他的视觉配合度还很差你可以从中得到一种感觉他到底在忙着找一些什么区域如果给他看真实的图像或者跟他这样儿的初期康复者看这种图像它们不能辨识大部分物体因为这个世界分成了很多小块儿抽象断裂的小块儿有着很多不同的颜色和光泽类似那些绿色划线当你向他们问起不需要命名，只要指着物体就可以他们指出来这样一些区域他的世界非常复杂有一块一块的很多区域甚至球上方的阴影变成独体的物体有趣的是几个月后发生了一些事
en:So, here&#39;s what happensvery soon after the onset of sight.Here&#39;s a person who had gained sight just a couple of weeks ago,and you see Ethan Myers, a graduate student from MIT,running the experiment with him.His visual-motor coordination is quite poor,but you get a general senseof what are the regions that he&#39;s trying to trace out.If you show him real world images,if you show others like him real world images,they are unable to recognize most of the objectsbecause the world to them is over-fragmented;it&#39;s made up of a collage, a patchwork,of regions of different colors and luminances.And that&#39;s what&#39;s indicated in the green outlines.When you ask them,&quot;Even if you can&#39;t name the objects, just point to where the objects are,&quot;these are the regions that they point to.So the world is this complexpatchwork of regions.Even the shadow on the ballbecomes its own object.Interestingly enough,you give them a few months,and this is what happens.
时间：10:39
zh-cn:医生：看见几个东西？
en:Doctor: How many are these?
时间：10:41
zh-cn:病患：这有两件物体
en:Patient: These are two things.
时间：10:43
zh-cn:医生：它们什么形状？
en:Doctor: What are their shapes?
时间：10:45
zh-cn:病患：它们的形状。。这个是圆形这个是正方形
en:Patient: Their shapes ...This one is a circle,and thisis a square.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:相当戏剧化的转变发生了问题就是这种转换说明什么？这是个很深奥的问题更使人惊奇的是答案竟然那么简单答案来自于运动那就是下一段视频我想要给大家展示的
en:PS: A very dramatic transformation has come about.And the question is:What underlies this transformation?It&#39;s a profound question,and what&#39;s even more amazing is how simplethe answer is.The answer lies in motionand that&#39;s what I want to show you in the next clip.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:医生：你能看到什么形状？
en:Doctor: What shape do you see here?
时间：11:16
zh-cn:病患：我不太清楚
en:Patient: I can&#39;t make it out.
时间：11:24
zh-cn:医生：现在呢？
en:Doctor: Now?
时间：11:27
zh-cn:病患：三角形
en:Patient: Triangle.
时间：11:31
zh-cn:医生：这有几个物体？现在，有几个呢？
en:Doctor: How many things are these?Now, how many things are these?
时间：11:47
zh-cn:病患：两个
en:Patient: Two.
时间：11:49
zh-cn:医生：这些是什么？
en:Doctor: What are these things?
时间：11:52
zh-cn:病患：一个正方形和一个圆形
en:Patient: A square and a circle.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:这种行为会反复出现视觉系统解读世界需要的重点是动感信息我们从这个实验还有很多其他实验中提取的是动感信息进程又叫移动进程的作用是建构视觉进程的支架它带领了视觉合成最终实现视觉感知
en:PS: And we see this pattern over and over again.The one thing the visual system needsin order to begin parsing the worldis dynamic information.So the inference we are deriving from this,and several such experiments,is that dynamic information processing,or motion processing,serves as the bedrock for buildingthe rest of the complexity of visual processing;it leads to visual integrationand eventually to recognition.
时间：12:23
zh-cn:这个貌似简单的道理有深远的影响让我大概来提两点一方面是科技工程学另一个是临床那么，从工程学的角度来看我们可能会问，了解了动态对人类视觉行程是如此的重要能不能用这个配方来搭建机器人视觉系统？使它自己学习，都不用程序操纵和人的协助这就是我们在
en:This simple idea has far reaching implications.And let me just quickly mention two,one, drawing from the domain of engineering,and one from the clinic.So, from the perspective of engineering,we can ask: Goven that we knowthat motion is so important for the human visual system,can we use this as a recipefor constructing machine-based vision systemsthat can learn on their own, that don&#39;t need to be programmedby a human programmer?And that&#39;s what we&#39;re trying to do.
时间：12:53
zh-cn:麻省理工大学正在研究的课题，这里需要应用任何你学到的基础知识这样，我们制造了德兰一个机器人系统它有个雄心勃勃的目标就是获取视觉输入类似小孩接受的信息一样然后自觉地去发掘这个视觉输入的目的别担心德兰内部长什么样在这里，我只需要介绍我们怎么测试她测试德兰的方法是通过给它输入一些信息类似婴儿能看到或者其他普拉卡课题的孩子能看到的但是很长一段时间里我们找不出来到哪去弄这种视频输入所以，我想到的是。。。不如让我儿子当个婴儿摄像头就这样拍到了德兰的输入视频我们是这么做的笑声为这，我必须跟老婆进行一次长谈笑声潘米，如果你在看的话原谅我吧
en:I&#39;m at MIT, at MIT you need to applywhatever basic knowledge you gain.So we are creating Dylan,which is a computational systemwith an ambitious goalof taking in visual inputsof the same kind that a human child would receive,and autonomously discovering:What are the objects in this visual input?So, don&#39;t worry about the internals of Dylan.Here, I&#39;m just going to talk abouthow we test Dylan.The way we test Dylan is by giving itinputs, as I said, of the same kindthat a baby, or a child in Project Prakash would get.But for a long time we couldn&#39;t quite figure out:Wow can we get these kinds of video inputs?So, I thought,could we have Dariusserve as our babycam carrier,and that way get the inputs that we feed into Dylan?So that&#39;s what we did.(Laughter)I had to have long conversations with my wife.(Laughter)In fact, Pam, if you&#39;re watching this,please forgive me.
时间：14:09
zh-cn:于是我们改装了摄像机镜头用于模仿小婴儿的视觉精度大家可能知道了新生宝宝总的来说是看不见什么东西的他们的视力如何- 我们成人是20/20婴儿的精度大概只有20/800所以他们眼中的世界非常非常的模糊这个就是婴儿摄像头看到的
en:So, we modified the optics of the camerain order to mimic the baby&#39;s visual acuity.As some of you might know,babyies are born pretty much legally blind.Their acuity — our acuity is 20/20;babies&#39; acuity is like 20/800,so they are looking at the worldin a very, very blurry fashion.Here&#39;s what a baby-cam video looks like.
时间：14:37
zh-cn:笑声鼓掌
en:(Laughter)(Applause)
时间：14:49
zh-cn:幸亏没有音频跟着图像伴奏令人惊叹的是，宝宝们看到的世界如此的高度模糊他们还能很快的发现这种输入的意义只要两三天，宝宝会开始注意到他的爸爸妈妈的脸孔。这是怎么回事？我们希望德兰也能做到利用动态原理德兰实际上真的做到了给它输入这种视频才六七分钟的短片德兰能开始提取模式包括面孔。所以，这是个很重要的展示说明了动态的重要性
en:Thankfully, there isn&#39;t any audioto go with this.What&#39;s amazing is that working with suchhighly degraded input,the baby, very quickly, is ableto discover meaning in such input.But then two or three days afterward,babies begin to pay attentionto their mother&#39;s or their father&#39;s face.How does that happen? We want Dylan to be able to do that,and using this mantra of motion,Dylan actually can do that.So, given that kind of video input,with just about six or seven minutes worth of video,Dylan can begin to extract patternsthat include faces.So, it&#39;s an important demonstrationof the power of motion.
时间：15:33
zh-cn:临床上，它的应用来源于自闭症的研究视觉合成疗法开始的结合是自闭症已经有些科学家在研究了我们看到这些，提出的问题是视觉系统的合成缺陷会不会是某种表像而是自闭症的动态信息处理缺陷因为如果这个假说是真的会给我们的研究带来巨大影响特别是不同的自闭症的显现
en:The clinical implication, it comes from the domain of autism.Visual integration has been associated with autismby several researchers.When we saw that, we asked:Could the impairment in visual integrationbe the manifestation of something underneath,of dynamic information processing deficiencies in autism?Because, if that hypothesis were to be true,it would have massive repercussions in our understandingof what&#39;s causing the many different aspectsof the autism phenotype.
时间：16:02
zh-cn:你会看到的是两个孩子的视频，一个正常另一个自闭症的孩子，在玩撞球游戏这样，当孩子在玩儿的时候，我们跟踪他们眼球的方向红色是眼睛运动的路径这个是正常的孩子，你会看到这个孩子能推断出球的动态信息然后预测出球要去哪里在球到达之前孩子已经能看向那边了相反的，另一个自闭症的孩子在玩的时候不能预测他只能追着球的运动使用动态信息的效率看来在自闭症人身上低多了我们一直追随这方面的工作希望有一天有更多的研究报告出炉
en:What you&#39;re going to see arevideo clips of two children — one neurotypical,one with autism, playing Pong.So, while the child is playing Pong, we are tracking where they&#39;re looking.In red are the eye movement traces.This is the neurotypical child, and what you seeis that the child is able to make cuesof the dynamic informationto predict where the ball is going to go.Even before the ball gets to a place,the child is already looking there.Contrast this with a childwith autism playing the same game.Instead of anticipating,the child always follows where the ball has been.The efficiency of the useof dynamic informationseems to be significantly compromised in autism.So we are pursuing this line of workand hopefully we&#39;ll havemore results to report soon.
时间：16:54
zh-cn:向前看去，如果你觉得这个圆形用以代表所有我们已经治疗过的儿童这就是问题的总量红色的点是我们治疗过的孩子所以，还有很多很多孩子，需要接受治疗为了能扩大课题的范围我们计划要发展普拉卡儿童中心包括专业眼科医院为患病儿童开设的学校还有前沿科技研究机构普拉卡中心将会结合医疗教育和科研为一体真正实现合众为一的伟大力量
en:Looking ahead, if you think of this diskas representing all of the childrenwe&#39;ve treated so far,this is the magnitude of the problem.The red dots are the children we have not treated.So, there are many, many more children who need to be treated,and in order to expand the scope of the project,we are planning on launchingThe Prakash Center for Children,which will have a dedicated pediatric hospital,a school for the children we are treatingand also a cutting-edge research facility.The Prakash Center will integrate health care,education and research in a waythat truly creates the wholeto be greater than the sum of the parts.
时间：17:32
zh-cn:总的来说，在普拉卡成立5年之际它已经影响到了很广的范围从基础神经学和脑神经学到临床相关的设想，比如说自闭症有半自动可视机器人大学生，研究生的教育学习最重要的在于减轻孩子们失明的痛苦对于我的学生，还有我本人这是多么非凡的经历因为我们在做着特别有趣的研究同时帮助了那么多与我们工作同在的孩子们
en:So, to summarize: Prakash, in its five years of existence,it&#39;s had an impact in multiple areas,ranging from basic neuroscienceplasticity and learning in the brain,to clinically relevant hypotheses like in autism,the development of autonomous machine vision systems,education of the undergraduate and graduate students,and most importantly in the alleviationof childhood blindness.And for my students and I, it&#39;s beenjust a phenomenal experiencebecause we have gotten to do interesting research,while at the same timehelping the many children that we have worked with.
时间：18:08
zh-cn:非常感谢
en:Thank you very much.
时间：18:10
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
