时间： 0:11
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 0:14
zh-cn:（视频）播音员：在本拉登被击毙后，恐怖威胁数量激增。播音员2：索马里出现饥荒。播音员3：警察使用胡椒喷雾。播音员4：凶恶的毒枭。播音员5：破裂的游轮。播音员6：社会风气败坏。播音员7：65人死亡。播音员8：海啸警告。播音员9：网络攻击。多位播音员：毒品战争、大规模破坏、飓风、经济衰退、违约、末日、埃及、叙利亚、危机、死亡、灾难。哦我的天哪！
en:(Video) Announcer: Threats, in the wake of Bin Laden&#39;s death, have spiked.Announcer Two: Famine in Somalia. Announcer Three: Police pepper spray.Announcer Four: Vicious cartels. Announcer Five: Caustic cruise lines.Announcer Six: Societal decay. Announcer Seven: 65 dead.Announcer Eight: Tsunami warning. Announcer Nine: Cyberattacks.Multiple Announcers: Drug war. Mass destruction. Tornado.Recession. Default. Doomsday. Egypt. Syria.Crisis. Death. Disaster.Oh, my God.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:彼得迪曼蒂斯：这是我在过去6个月里收集的一些视频。如果是在6天，或者过去6年里也可以轻易收集到类似的片段。重点是新闻媒体倾向于向我们灌输负面信息。因为我们的大脑特别容易关注这些。当然大脑这样做是有很重要的理由。每时每刻，我们的“传感器”收集大量的信息多到我们的大脑处理不过来。
en:Peter Diamandis: So those are just a few of the clipsI collected over the last six months —could have easily been the last six daysor the last six years.The point is that the news mediapreferentially feeds us negative storiesbecause that&#39;s what our minds pay attention to.And there&#39;s a very good reason for that.Every second of every day,our senses bring in way too much datathan we can possibly process in our brains.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:而其中没有比与生存相关的信息更重要的。所有信息输入的第一站就是颞叶上一个叫做大脑扁桃体的非常原始的部分。大脑扁桃体是我们的早期预警侦测器，危险探测仪。它将所有信息分类并仔细查阅，探测环境中任何可能的威胁。所以每当我们打开报纸，就会不自觉地阅读各种负面信息。那个过去有关报纸的说法：”流血事件必上头条。“其实是很有道理的。而现在我们有各种数字化设备，无时无刻地向我们输送各种负面新闻。难怪大家这么容易悲观。难怪人们觉得世界在倒退。
en:And because nothing is more important to usthan survival,the first stop of all of that datais an ancient sliver of the temporal lobecalled the amygdala.Now the amygdala is our early warning detector,our danger detector.It sorts and scours through all of the informationlooking for anything in the environment that might harm us.So given a dozen news stories,we will preferentially lookat the negative news.And that old newspaper saying,&quot;If it bleeds it leads,&quot;is very true.So given all of our digital devicesthat are bringing all the negative news to usseven days a week, 24 hours a day,it&#39;s no wonder that we&#39;re pessimistic.It&#39;s no wonder that people thinkthat the world is getting worse.
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:但事实或许并不是这样，我们所接受的信息是被扭曲的。我们的社会在上世纪一系列事件的影响下所经历的巨大的进步正在不断加速，事实上，这样的速度令我们在未来三十年中，拥有创造一个富足的世界的可能性。我并不是说这些问题不存在－气候危机，物种灭绝，水资源和能源短缺的情况都确实发生了。作为人类，我们太擅长对危机做出各种预估，但最终我们会消除它们。
en:But perhaps that&#39;s not the case.Perhaps instead,it&#39;s the distortions brought to usof what&#39;s really going on.Perhaps the tremendous progress we&#39;ve madeover the last centuryby a series of forcesare, in fact, accelerating to a pointthat we have the potential in the next three decadesto create a world of abundance.Now I&#39;m not sayingwe don&#39;t have our set of problems —climate crisis, species extinction,water and energy shortage — we surely do.And as humans, we are far betterat seeing the problems way in advance,but ultimately we knock them down.
时间： 2:32
zh-cn:让我们来回顾下上个世纪发生了什么，来了解我们正向着什么方向在前进。过去的几百年里，人类的平均寿命增加了2倍以上，经过通货膨胀调整计算，全世界的人均收入增加了3倍。婴儿死亡率下降了10倍。食品、用电、交通、通信的成本下降了10倍到1000倍不等。史蒂夫平克为我们指出,我们正生活在人类历史上最和平的时代。还有查尔斯·肯尼提到世界范围的识字率在过去的130年里从25％上升到了80％。我们确实生活在一个伟大的时代。然而许多人忘记了这点。
en:So let&#39;s lookat what this last century has beento see where we&#39;re going.Over the last hundred years,the average human lifespan has more than doubled,average per capita income adjusted for inflationaround the world has tripled.Childhood mortalityhas come down a factor of 10.Add to that the cost of food, electricity,transportation, communicationhave dropped 10 to 1,000-fold.Steve Pinker has showed usthat, in fact, we&#39;re living during the most peaceful time everin human history.And Charles Kennythat global literacy has gone from 25 percent to over 80 percentin the last 130 years.We truly are living in an extraordinary time.And many people forget this.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:我们不断地把期望越定越高。事实上，我们已经更改了“贫穷”的涵义。想一下，在今天的美国大部分生活在贫困线下的人仍然拥有电力，饮用水，厕所，冰箱，电视，行动电话，空调和汽车。上世纪最富有的强盗大亨，这个星球上的帝王们，永远都想象不到这样的奢侈生活。
en:And we keep setting our expectations higher and higher.In fact, we redefine what poverty means.Think of this, in America today,the majority of people under the poverty linestill have electricity, water, toilets, refrigerators,television, mobile phones,air conditioning and cars.The wealthiest robber barons of the last century, the emperors on this planet,could have never dreamed of such luxuries.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:而这一切的基础是科技。和近代指数式增长的科技。我的好朋友雷·库兹威尔展示了任何信息科技的工具都遵从这条曲线，即摩尔定律。并经历每12到24个月性价比翻一倍的增长。这就是为什么你口袋里的行动电话相比70年代的超级电脑要便宜100万倍，而且还要快上1000倍再看这个曲线。这是过去几百年里的摩尔定律。我想要大家注意这曲线所体现的2件事第一，它非常的平滑－无论时代是好是坏，无论战争或和平，经济衰退或增长。这是因为更快的电脑被用来制造更更快的电脑所产生的结果。它不会因为我们面临的巨大挑战所延缓。尽管在左边呈现出对数曲线它也是仍然是向上弯曲。科技前进加速的本身也在不断变快。
en:Underpinning much of thisis technology,and of late,exponentially growing technologies.My good friend Ray Kurzweilshowed that any tool that becomes an information technologyjumps on this curve, on Moore&#39;s Law,and experiences price performance doublingevery 12 to 24 months.That&#39;s why the cellphone in your pocketis literally a million times cheaper and a thousand times fasterthan a supercomputer of the &#39;70s.Now look at this curve.This is Moore&#39;s Law over the last hundred years.I want you to notice two things from this curve.Number one, how smooth it is —through good time and bad time, war time and peace time,recession, depression and boom time.This is the result of faster computersbeing used to build faster computers.It doesn&#39;t slow for any of our grand challenges.And also, even though it&#39;s plottedon a log curve on the left,it&#39;s curving upwards.The rate at which the technology is getting fasteris itself getting faster.
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:在这摩尔定律的曲线上，是一系列对所有人都开放的强大的科技。云计算，我在Autodesk公司的朋友称之为无限计算；传感器和网络，机器人；3D打印，让我们获得在全世界范围普及和部署个性化生产的能力；人造生命；带来新的燃料，疫苗和食物；数字化医药；纳米材料和人工智能。观众中多少人看到了IBM的Watson超级电脑在Jeopardy智力竞赛的获胜？那真是太伟大了。我查看各种报纸的新闻头条找到我觉得最好的我喜欢这句：”Watson征服人类对手。“Jeopardy不是个容易的比赛。获胜关键在于理解人类语言中的微妙细节。你可以想象一下像这样的人工智能存在于云计算中所有拥有行动电话的人都可以使用的景象。
en:And on this curve, riding on Moore&#39;s Law,are a set of extraordinarily powerful technologiesavailable to all of us.Cloud computing,what my friends at Autodesk call infinite computing;sensors and networks; robotics;3D printing, which is the ability to democratize and distributepersonalized production around the planet;synthetic biology;fuels, vaccines and foods;digital medicine; nanomaterials; and A.I.I mean, how many of you saw the winning of Jeopardyby IBM&#39;s Watson?I mean, that was epic.In fact, I scoured the headlineslooking for the best headline in a newspaper I could.And I love this: &quot;Watson Vanquishes Human Opponents.&quot;Jeopardy&#39;s not an easy game.It&#39;s about the nuance of human language.And imagine if you wouldA.I.&#39;s like this on the cloudavailable to every person with a cellphone.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:四年前在TED,雷·库兹威尔和我创立了一所新的大学叫做“Singularity University”。我们教给学生各种科技特别是如何利用这些科技来解决人类面临的巨大挑战。每一年我们都要求学生创立一件公司或制作一种产品或者提供一项服务能在十年内对十亿人的生活产生积极而实际的影响。想象一下一群学生今天可以影响到十亿人的生活。30年前这听起来非常可笑。今天我们可以列举出几十间有这样成就的公司。
en:Four years ago here at TED,Ray Kurzweil and I started a new universitycalled Singularity University.And we teach our students all of these technologies,and particularly how they can be usedto solve humanity&#39;s grand challenges.And every year we ask themto start a company or a product or a servicethat can affect positively the lives of a billion peoplewithin a decade.Think about that, the fact that, literally, a group of studentscan touch the lives of a billion people today.30 years ago that would have sounded ludicrous.Today we can point at dozens of companiesthat have done just that.
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:当我想到创造富足社会，并不是要为地球上的每一个人创造奢华的生活；而是创造充满可能性的生活。是把原先稀缺的资源变得充沛稀缺性是相对的，而科技是一股解放资源的力量。我来举一个例子。
en:When I think about creating abundance,it&#39;s not about creating a life of luxury for everybody on this planet;it&#39;s about creating a life of possibility.It is about taking that which was scarceand making it abundant.You see, scarcity is contextual,and technology is a resource-liberating force.Let me give you an example.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:这是一个拿破仑三世的故事在1800到1810年中期。他是左边这位邀请了泰王共进晚餐。所有拿破仑的士兵使用银器用餐，拿破仑自己则使用金器。但是泰国国王使用铝制的餐具。铝曾经是世界上最贵重的金属，比黄金和白金还要昂贵。这就是为什么华盛顿纪念碑的顶端是铝制的。即使铝占了地球总重量的8.3%。但它不是以纯金属的形态存在。它都是和氧或者硅酸结合。但是随后出现了电解技术使得铝的价格如此低廉以致我们就把铝制品当一次性用品般看待。
en:So this is a story of Napoleon IIIin the mid-1800s.He&#39;s the dude on the left.He invited over to dinnerthe king of Siam.All of Napoleon&#39;s troopswere fed with silver utensils,Napoleon himself with gold utensils.But the King of Siam,he was fed with aluminum utensils.You see, aluminumwas the most valuable metal on the planet,worth more than gold and platinum.It&#39;s the reason that the tip of the Washington Monumentis made of aluminum.You see, even though aluminumis 8.3 percent of the Earth by mass,it doesn&#39;t come as a pure metal.It&#39;s all bound by oxygen and silicates.But then the technology of electrolysis came alongand literally made aluminum so cheapthat we use it with throw-away mentality.
时间： 7:49
zh-cn:让我们把这个比喻应用到其他方面，让我们想一想能源短缺。女士们先生们，我们生活的这个星球上接收着相当于我们年平均能源消耗5000多倍的能量。每88分钟有16太瓦的能源投向地球表面。问题并不是能源稀缺，而是可及性。现在有几个好消息，今年是有史以来第一次在印度，太阳能发电的成本降低至化石燃料发电成本的一半—8.8卢布相比较17卢布。去年太阳能发电的成本降低了一半上个月，MIT发布了一个研究报告显示到2020年在美国阳光充足的地区，太阳能电力费用会降至6美分一千瓦／小时相比较全国平均标准是15美分。
en:So let&#39;s project this analogy going forward.We think about energy scarcity.Ladies and gentlemen,we are on a planetthat is bathed with 5,000 times more energythan we use in a year.16 terawatts of energy hits the Earth&#39;s surfaceevery 88 minutes.It&#39;s not about being scarce,it&#39;s about accessibility.And there&#39;s good news here.For the first time, this yearthe cost of solar-generated electricityis 50 percent that of diesel-generated electricity in India —8.8 rupees versus 17 rupees.The cost of solar dropped 50 percent last year.Last month, MIT put out a studyshowing that by the end of this decade,in the sunny parts of the United States,solar electricity will be six cents a kilowatt hourcompared to 15 centsas a national average.
时间： 8:43
zh-cn:如果我们有充足的能源，也就会有丰富的洁净水。下面我们来聊下水的战争。还记得吗？1990年，Carl Saga在航海者太空飞船经过土星的时候，调转其方向面对地球。拍下了一幅著名的照片，叫什么名字？”淡蓝色的小点。“因为我们生活在一颗&quot;水行星&quot;上地球表面70％被水覆盖是的，97.5％是海水2%是冰山，我们则在争夺世界上1.5%的水资源，但我们仍然有希望。有一项科技正准备投入应用，并不是未来的10年20年以后，就是现在。有一种纳米科技。
en:And if we have abundant energy,we also have abundant water.Now we talk about water wars.Do you rememberwhen Carl Sagan turned the Voyager spacecraftback towards the Earth,in 1990 after it just passed Saturn?He took a famous photo. What was it called?&quot;A Pale Blue Dot.&quot;Because we live on a water planet.We live on a planet 70 percent covered by water.Yes, 97.5 percent is saltwater,two percent is ice,and we fight over a half a percent of the water on this planet,but here too there is hope.And there is technology coming online,not 10, 20 years from now,right now.There&#39;s nanotechnology coming on, nanomaterials.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:今天早上我和一个伟大的DIY发明家Dean Kamen聊天。我想要和大家分享－我得到了他的允许－他开发的技术叫做“弹弓”在座的一些朋友可能听说过，它是一个小房间一般大的冰箱，每天可以从任何水源中－海水，污染水，公共厕所－生产出一千公升的洁净饮用水。每公升的成本低于2美分。可口可乐的主席最近授意在多个发展中国家对数百台“弹弓”进行大规模测试。如果测试成功，我很有信心它会成功，可口可乐将会在全球206个国家对该设备进行部署。这就是当下已经存在的由科技驱动的创新。
en:And the conversation I had with Dean Kamen this morning,one of the great DIY innovators,I&#39;d like to share with you — he gave me permission to do so —his technology called Slingshotthat many of you may have heard of,it is the size of a small dorm room refrigerator.It&#39;s able to generatea thousand liters of clean drinking water a dayout of any source — saltwater, polluted water, latrine —at less than two cents a liter.The chairman of Coca-Cola has just agreedto do a major testof hundreds of units of this in the developing world.And if that pans out,which I have every confidence it will,Coca-Cola will deploy this globallyto 206 countriesaround the planet.This is the kind of innovation, empowered by this technology,that exists today.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:我们在移动电话上看到这点。我的天哪，在2013年底，发展中国家的移动电话渗透率将达到70％。想象一下。在肯尼亚中部的一个马赛士兵拥有的比25年前的里根总统更好的移动通讯。如果他们使用智能手机访问Google,他们将得到比克林顿总统15年前所得到的更多的知识和信息。他们生活在一个信息和通讯富足的世界这在过去没人能预测到的。还有更棒的，我们花费了成千上百美金所获得的－GPS，高清电视和图形图像，以及医疗诊断技术－被非物质化并非商业化输入到你的行动电话中。
en:And we&#39;ve seen this in cellphones.My goodness, we&#39;re going to hit 70 percent penetrationof cellphones in the developing worldby the end of 2013.Think about it,that a Masai warrior on a cellphone in the middle of Kenyahas better mobile commthan President Reagan did 25 years ago.And if they&#39;re on a smartphone on Google,they&#39;ve got access to more knowledge and informationthan President Clinton did 15 years ago.They&#39;re living in a world of information and communication abundancethat no one could have ever predicted.Better than that,the things that you and Ispent tens and hundreds of thousands of dollars for —GPS, HD video and still images,libraries of books and music,medical diagnostic technology —are now literally dematerializing and demonetizinginto your cellphone.
时间：11:15
zh-cn:这其中最好的部分或许是医疗。上个月我很荣幸和高通基金共同宣布1000万美金高通手持移动分析仪X大赛。我们向全世界的团队发出挑战来将这些科技组合进移动设备。你可以向它说话，因为它拥有人工智能也可以对着它咳嗽，或者扎手指验血。要赢得竞赛，这个设备需要能为你提供比一组经过委员会验证的医师更好的诊断。想象这个设备应用在缺少医师，25％的疾病负担仅有1.3%的医疗人员的发展中国家。如果这个设备对病毒的RNA或者DNA进行测序后无法识别，它会呼叫疾病控制中心第一时间防止大规模疫情的爆发。
en:Probably the best part of itis what&#39;s coming down the pike in health.Last month, I had the pleasure of announcing with Qualcomm Foundationsomething called the $10 million Qualcomm Tricorder X Prize.We&#39;re challenging teams around the worldto basically combine these technologiesinto a mobile devicethat you can speak to, because it&#39;s got A.I.,you can cough on it, you can do a finger blood prick.And to win, it needs to be able to diagnose you betterthan a team of board-certified doctors.So literally, imagine this devicein the middle of the developing world where there are no doctors,25 percent of the disease burdenand 1.3 percent of the health care workers.When this device sequences an RNA or DNA virusthat it doesn&#39;t recognize,it calls the CDCand prevents the pandemic from happening in the first place.
时间：12:07
zh-cn:还有最能创造富足的世界的力量。我称之为“崛起的十亿人”。这道白线代表人口。地球上的人口最近超过了70亿。顺便提一下，防止人口爆炸性增长的最好方法就是让全世界人接受更多教育变得更健康。在2010年，我们有接近20亿的人与网络连接。到2020年，英特网用户将会从20亿增长到50亿。30亿未曾被注意的新用户。将参与到这全球的对话中来。他们想要什么？他们将会消费什么？他们的愿望是什么？我们将迎来的是最大的，是经济活力的注入而不是衰退。这些人代表着几十万亿美元的消费力将会注入全球经济体。他们会因为使用手持移动分析仪而更健康，也会因为观看Khan Academy变得更有聪慧，随着3D打印和无限计算的普及而变得比以往任何时代都更有生产力。
en:But here, here is the biggest forcefor bringing about a world of abundance.I call it the rising billion.So the white lines here are population.We just passed the seven billion mark on Earth.And by the way,the biggest protection against a population explosionis making the world educatedand healthy.In 2010,we had just short of two billion peopleonline, connected.By 2020,that&#39;s going from two billion to five billionInternet users.Three billion new mindswho have never been heard from beforeare connecting to the global conversation.What will these people want?What will they consume? What will they desire?And rather than having economic shutdown,we&#39;re about to have the biggest economic injection ever.These people representtens of trillions of dollarsinjected into the global economy.And they will get healthierby using the Tricorder,and they&#39;ll become better educated by using the Khan Academy,and by literally being able to use3D printing and infinite computing[become] more productive than ever before.
时间：13:21
zh-cn:30亿健康，接受教育，富有生产力的人类社会成员能为我们带来什么？一系列我们从未接触过的新思维。还有给予受到压制的，或者其他困难的人们首次获得受到关注和帮助的机会。这30亿人会带来什么？或许是我们都还未能预见的贡献？我在筹办X大赛的过程中体会到的一点是目标清晰，富有激情的小型团队就能取得卓越的成就，在过去只有大企业和政府才能做到的事情。
en:So what could three billion rising,healthy, educated, productive members of humanitybring to us?How about a set of voices that have never been heard from before.What about giving the oppressed,wherever they might be,the voice to be heard and the voice to actfor the first time ever?What will these three billion people bring?What about contributions we can&#39;t even predict?The one thing I&#39;ve learned at the X Prizeis that small teamsdriven by their passion with a clear focuscan do extraordinary things,things that large corporations and governmentscould only do in the past.
时间：14:01
zh-cn:让我来分享一个故事作为结尾，这个故事让我非常兴奋。在座的有一些可能听说过这个项目。是一个叫做Foldit的游戏。它来自西雅图的华盛顿大学。它是一个能让个人获取一个氨基酸序列，并分析出其中的蛋白质是如何折叠的。其折叠的方式决定了该氨基酸的结构和功能。这是非常重要的医学研究。直到目前，这都还是一个由超级电脑来处理的问题。
en:Let me share and close with a storythat really got me excited.There is a program that some of you might have heard of.It&#39;s a game called Foldit.It came out of the University of Washington in Seattle.And this is a gamewhere individuals can actually take a sequence of amino acidsand figure out how the protein is going to fold.And how it folds dictates its structure and its functionality.And it&#39;s very important for research in medicine.And up until now, it&#39;s been a supercomputer problem.
时间：14:32
zh-cn:这个游戏起先是给大学教授玩。然后成百上千的人也上线开始玩这个游戏。它也展示出时至今日，人类的模式辨识机能仍然要比最好的电脑都要强。当大家排列出最好的蛋白质折叠专家时，并不是MIT的教授，也不是加州理工学院的学生，而是一位来自曼彻斯特的英国女性。白天在一家康复治疗整所行政助理的工作，而夜晚也是全世界最好的蛋白质折叠专家。
en:And this game has been playedby university professors and so forth.And it&#39;s literally, hundreds of thousands of peoplecame online and started playing it.And it showed that, in fact, today,the human pattern recognition machineryis better at folding proteins than the best computers.And when these individuals went and lookedat who was the best protein folder in the world,it wasn&#39;t an MIT professor,it wasn&#39;t a CalTech student,it was a person from England, from Manchester,a woman who, during the day,was an executive assistant at a rehab clinicand, at night, was the world&#39;s best protein folder.
时间：15:12
zh-cn:女士们先生们给予我对未来巨大信心的，是我们每一位作为个人都被赋予挑战全世界面临的难题的能力。我们拥有快速发展的科技和工具，也有DIY发明家的激情。大家都有能力成为技术－慈善家。同时还有30亿新的用户来到线上与我们合作一起解决巨大的挑战，做到我们必须要做的事情。我们正要迎来卓越的几十年。
en:Ladies and gentlemen,what gives me tremendous confidencein the futureis the fact that we are now more empowered as individualsto take on the grand challenges of this planet.We have the tools with this exponential technology.We have the passion of the DIY innovator.We have the capital of the techno-philanthropist.And we have three billion new mindscoming online to work with usto solve the grand challenges,to do that which we must do.We are living into extraordinary decades ahead.
时间：15:48
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：15:50
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
