时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我将要谈论腐败的问题，但是我想先将两件不同的事情放在一起讲讲。其一是宏大的全球经济，全球化经济，而另外一个则是渺小的而且非常受限的旧式政府以及其国际组织对经济的监控以及改造能力。这种不对称性的存在，基本上导致了无能失策的政府。政府的无能表现在很多方面，例如腐败以及环境的破坏，对妇女和儿童的剥削，以及气候变化，等等。在所有的这些领域中，我们真的很需要端正政治在经济活动中的首要地位达成一个世界级的合作。而我认为腐败和针对腐败的反击以及腐败的影响也许是最有趣的方式来阐明我对政府无能失策的看法。
en:I am going to speak about corruption,but I would like to juxtaposetwo different things.One is the large global economy,the large globalized economy,and the other one is the small, and very limited,capacity of our traditional governmentsand their international institutionsto govern, to shape, this economy.Because there is this asymmetry,which creates, basically,failing governance.Failing governance in many areas:in the area of corruption and the area of destruction of the environment,in the area of exploitation of women and children,in the area of climate change,in all the areas in which we really needa capacity to reintroducethe primacy of politicsinto the economy,which is operating in a worldwide arena.And I think corruption,and the fight against corruption,and the impact of corruption,is probably one of the most interesting waysto illustrate what I meanwith this failure of governance.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:我来谈谈我的经历吧。我曾经担任世界银行在内罗毕办事处的总监服务区域是东非那时候我注意到腐败，那种明目张胆的腐败，系统性的腐败在不断侵蚀我们的努力成果。所以，我开始竭力维护世界银行的工作成果，我们的项目，我们的各项企划防止它们受到腐败的侵害但总体而言，我认为，我们需要一种制度去保卫该地区的人民使他们免受腐败的侵害。然而，一当我展开工作时，我就收到了世界银行法律部门的一封便函函内写道，你这样做是不被允许的。你这是在干预我们合作国家的内政。这是世界银行纲领所禁止的。所以，我们要求你停止你的行动。
en:Let me talk about my own experience.I used to work as the directorof the World Bank office in Nairobifor East Africa.At that time, I noticedthat corruption, that grand corruption,that systematic corruption,was undermining everything we were trying to do.And therefore, I beganto not only try to protectthe work of the World Bank,our own projects, our own programsagainst corruption,but in general, I thought, &quot;We need a systemto protect the peoplein this part of the worldfrom the ravages of corruption.&quot;And as soon as I started this work,I received a memorandum from the World Bank,from the legal department first,in which they said, &quot;You are not allowed to do this.You are meddling in the internal affairs of our partner countries.This is forbidden by the charter of the World Bank,so I want you to stop your doings.&quot;
时间： 2:37
zh-cn:在那段时期，我正在主持捐赠者会议各类捐赠者都出席了会议他们中的很多人喜欢待在内罗毕—的确，它是世界上最不安全的城市之一，但是他们喜欢待在这里，因为其他城市让人感觉更不舒服。在这些捐赠者回忆中，我注意到，很多最差的项目总是被我们的顾客、政府、赞助人他们其中很多人代表北方的供应商，最先地启动进行。让我来给你们举一个例子。一个巨大的能源项目，价值30亿，将在世界上最脆弱、又最美丽的地域之一，肯尼亚西部开始启动。我们都立刻发现，这个项目没有经济利益。他没有消费者。没人会从那里购买电力。没人对灌溉项目感兴趣。相反地，我们知道这项工程会摧毁环境，会毁掉河岸森林，而这些正是那个区域的游牧部族，如Samburu和Tokana部族所赖以生存的。所以，每个人都知道这不仅是个没用的项目，更是个绝对毁灭性的、可怕的项目。且不说这个国家将来会因此负债累累，亏欠亿万美元，它还会贪婪地吞噬本来可以花在如学校、医院等更重要的活动上的稀少有限的资源。我们都驳回了这个项目。没有一个捐献者愿意让自己的名字和这个项目扯上任何关系。但是这个项目是最先开始执行的。
en:In the meantime, I was chairingdonor meetings, for instance,in which the various donors,and many of them like to be in Nairobi —it is true, it is one of theunsafest cities of the world,but they like to be there because the other citiesare even less comfortable.And in these donor meetings, I noticedthat many of the worst projects —which were put forwardby our clients, by the governments,by promoters,many of them representingsuppliers from the North —that the worst projectswere realized first.Let me give you an example:a huge power project,300 million dollars,to be built smack intoone of the most vulnerable, and one of the most beautiful,areas of western Kenya.And we all noticed immediatelythat this project had no economic benefits:It had no clients, nobody would buy the electricity there,nobody was interested in irrigation projects.To the contrary, we knew that this projectwould destroy the environment:It would destroy riparian forests,which were the basis forthe survival of nomadic groups,the Samburu and the Turkana in this area.So everybody knew this is a, not a useless project,this is an absolute damaging, a terrible project —not to speak about the future indebtedness of the countryfor these hundreds of millions of dollars,and the siphoning offof the scarce resources of the economyfrom much more important activitieslike schools, like hospitals and so on.And yet, we all rejected this project,none of the donors was willingto have their name connected with it,and it was the first project to be implemented.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:好的项目，那些我们捐献者群体愿意鼎力相助的项目，却被拖了一年又一年你得做很多研究，而且通常它们都不会成功。但是这些差劲的项目却总一帆风顺，尽管它们我们的经济有着绝对损害会影响到几代人的环境，会让成千上万的家庭流离失所。这些项目很突然地成型帮助它们的是银行的联合体、支持供应商的社团和保险公司。像在德国，爱马仕公司等等就是背后的推手。它们很快很快地卷土重来背后的驱动力是国家里强大精英间的不正义的同盟以及北方的供应商。现在，这些供应商是我们的大公司。他们是这全球市场的活跃角色，正如我在演讲之初所指出的一样。它们是世界上那些像西门子一样强大的公司，来自法国、英国、日本、加拿大、德国，它们被有体系的、大型的腐败有规则地驱动前进。我们不是在讨论五万美元的腐败，也不是十万，或一百万。我们在讨论的，是一千万、两千万美元，它们以贿款的形势出现在瑞士的账号上、列支敦士登的银行账户里，那些账户属于总统的部长、半国营部门的高级官员。
en:The good projects, which we as a donor communitywould take under our wings,they took years, you know,you had too many studies,and very often they didn&#39;t succeed.But these bad projects,which were absolutely damaging — for the economyfor many generations, for the environment,for thousands of families who had to be resettled —they were suddenly put togetherby consortia of banks,of supplier agencies,of insurance agencies —like in Germany, Hermes, and so on —and they came back very, very quickly,driven by an unholy alliancebetween the powerful elitesin the countries thereand the suppliers from the North.Now, these supplierswere our big companies.They were the actors of this global market,which I mentioned in the beginning.They were the Siemenses of this world,coming from France, from the UK, from Japan,from Canada, from Germany,and they were systematically drivenby systematic, large-scale corruption.We are not talking about50,000 dollars here,or 100,000 dollars there, or one million dollars there.No, we are talking about 10 million, 20 million dollarson the Swiss bank accounts,on the bank accounts of Liechtenstein,of the president&#39;s ministers,the high officials in the para-statal sectors.
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:这就是我看到的现实，而且这样的情况不是个例我敢说我在我在非洲工作的这些年里看见过成百上千个这样的项目。因此，我相信这种系统性的腐败正在使这些国家的经济政策走向歧途，也正是这种腐败将这些国家推进苦难、贫穷、纷争、暴力、绝望的深渊。现今，我们有超过十亿的人处在绝对贫困线以下我们有超过十亿人没有合理处理过的清水可以饮用更有两倍那么多的人，超过二十亿的人没有卫生设备等等，因此女人和孩子常受到疾病侵袭直至今日，每年还有超过千万的儿童在五岁前死亡。追根溯源，这些问题在很大程度上是因为规模庞大的腐败。
en:This was the reality which I saw,and not only one project like that:I saw, I would say,over the years I worked in Africa,I saw hundreds of projects like this.And so, I became convincedthat it is this systematic corruptionwhich is perverting economic policy-making in these countries,which is the main reasonfor the misery, for the poverty,for the conflicts, for the violence,for the desperationin many of these countries.That we have todaymore than a billion people below the absolute poverty line,that we have more than a billion peoplewithout proper drinking water in the world,twice that number,more than two billion peoplewithout sanitation and so on,and the consequent illnessesof mothers and children,still, child mortality of more than10 million people every year,children dying before they are five years old:The cause of this is, to a large extent,grand corruption.
时间： 6:58
zh-cn:那么，为什么世界银行不让我对此作出反应呢？在我于一场大争执后离开世界银行以后我才搞明白。原因是世界银行的成员国觉得对外贿赂是没问题的，比如德国就这么认为。在德国，对外行贿是被允许的。它甚至是可免税的。难怪绝大多数德国、法国、英国、斯堪地那维亚，所有地方大多数最重要的国际公司都有系统地进行着贿赂我不是说所有的，但是绝大多数的公司对此都不能问心无愧。我把这样一个现象称作政府失效。当我来到德国建成了这个小小的非政府组织在柏林，在Borsig公馆，我们被告知，我们不能阻止德国出口商行贿，因为我们德国会因此失去合约。我们会输给法国人、瑞士人、日本人，因此，这就形成了一个“囚徒困境”这样一来，单独的公司，或者出口国就很难说，我们将不再继续这种灾难性的行贿习惯了。
en:Now, why did the World Banknot let me do this work?I found out afterwards,after I left, under a big fight, the World Bank.The reason was that the members of the World Bankthought that foreign bribery was okay,including Germany.In Germany, foreign bribery was allowed.It was even tax-deductible.No wonder that most of the most importantinternational operators in Germany,but also in France and the UKand Scandinavia, everywhere, systematically bribed.Not all of them, but most of them.And this is the phenomenonwhich I call failing governance,because when I then came to Germanyand started this little NGOhere in Berlin, at the Villa Borsig,we were told, &quot;You cannot stopour German exporters from bribing,because we will lose our contracts.We will lose to the French,we will lose to the Swedes, we&#39;ll lose to the Japanese.&quot;And therefore, there was a indeed a prisoner&#39;s dilemma,which made it very difficultfor an individual company,an individual exporting countryto say, &quot;We are not going tocontinue this deadly, disastroushabit of large companies to bribe.&quot;
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:这就是我所知的失效的政府结构因为即使是强大的政府，如相对强大的德国政府，也不能够说，我们将不允许我们的公司在海外行贿。它们需要帮助而且这些大公司本身也身处这种两难的境地。其中很多公司并不想行贿。比如，很多德国公司相信它们确实是能够制造出物美价廉、有竞争力的产品。它们不如其他国际竞争者善于行贿之术，但是它们没有机会展现自己的长处因为这个世界正在被大规模的腐败侵蚀。
en:So this is what I meanwith a failing governance structure,because even the powerful government,which we have in Germany, comparatively,was not able to say,&quot;We will not allow our companies to bribe abroad.&quot;They needed help,and the large companies themselveshave this dilemma.Many of them didn&#39;t want to bribe.Many of the German companies, for instance,believe that they are reallyproducing a high-quality productat a good price, so they are very competitive.They are not as good at bribingas many of their international competitors are,but they were not allowedto show their strengths,because the world was eaten upby grand corruption.
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:我想说的是，随着政府的失效，公民社会组织就应站出来。我们有一个小型的非政府组织，“透明国际”我们开始设想一条从“囚徒困境”里的逃生之路，我们也开始发扬集体行动的概念，即尝试将不同的竞争者集合到谈判桌前，向他们解释如果他们同时停止行贿是对他们多么有好处。长话短说，我们最终得以使德国和其他经济合作发展组织的成员国以及一些其他的出口国
en:And this is why I&#39;m telling you this:Civil society rose to the occasion.We had this small NGO,Transparency International.They began to think ofan escape route from this prisoner&#39;s dilemma,and we developed conceptsof collective action,basically trying to bring various competitorstogether around the table,explaining to all of themhow much it would be in their interestsif they simultaneously would stop bribing,and to make a long story short,we managed to eventuallyget Germany to signtogether with the other OECD countriesand a few other exporters.
时间： 9:50
zh-cn:在1997年的一场会议上在经济合作发展组织的赞助支持下，使所有参与者改变法律将对外行贿犯罪化。（观众掌声）谢谢大家，我觉得挺有趣的，做这件事的时候，我们必须跟这些公司坐在一起。我们在柏林的山杨协会和20个企业大首脑开了几次会，我们和他们讨论了如何应对国际性会的问题。我们一共有三个跨时两年的会议在第一个会议里一个来自冯·魏茨泽克的主席主持了第一个会议以消除企业家们的恐惧因为他们不习惯与非政府组织打交道。在第一个会议里，他们都说，他们做的不是行贿。那是个习俗。那是其他的文化所要求的。他们甚至赞许这种行为。事实上，有人到如今还坚持这样的观点。并且还有很多人不相信别人已经停止了行贿。但是在第二次会议里，他们已经承认他们再也不会这样做了，不会再做这些发生在其他国家，如德国、英国等等的事了。内阁大臣们承认了这一点。在最后一个会议里，在山杨协会，我们让他们所有人都签署了一封给那时的科勒政府的公开信，要求参与到经济合作与发展组织协定里来。
en:In 1997, a convention,under the auspices of the OECD,which obliged everybodyto change their lawsand criminalize foreign bribery.(Applause)Well, thank you. I mean, it&#39;s interesting,in doing this,we had to sit together with the companies.We had here in Berlin, at the Aspen Institute on the Wannsee,we had sessions with about20 captains of industry,and we discussed with themwhat to do about international bribery.In the first session — we had three sessionsover the course of two years.And President von Weizsäcker, by the way,chaired one of the sessions, the first one,to take the fear awayfrom the entrepreneurs,who were not used to dealwith non-governmental organizations.And in the first session, they all said,&quot;This is not bribery, what we are doing.&quot; This is customary there.This is what these other cultures demand.They even applaud it.In fact, [unclear]still says this today.And so there are still a lot of peoplewho are not convinced that you have to stop bribing.But in the second session,they admitted already that they would never do this,what they are doing in these other countries,here in Germany, or in the U.K., and so on.Cabinet ministers would admit this.And in the final session, at the Aspen Institute,we had them all sign an open letterto the Kohl government, at the time,requesting that theyparticipate in the OECD convention.
时间：11:25
zh-cn:这在我心中是一种软实力的体现，因为我们能够让他们确信他们必须跟我们统一战线。我们有更长远的目光。我们要维护地域上更宽广的群体利益。这就是为什么法律被改变了。这就是为什么西门子现在遇到了麻烦。这就是为什么MIN现在碰到了棘手的事。在一些其他国家里，经济合作与发展组织协定还没有被真正地有力实施。我重申，公民社会紧盯着当局的一举一动。
en:And this is, in my opinion,an example of soft power,because we were able to convince themthat they had to go with us.We had a longer-term time perspective.We had a broader,geographically much wider,constituency we were trying to defend.And that&#39;s why the law has changed.That&#39;s why Siemens is now in the trouble they are inand that&#39;s why MIN is in the trouble they are in.In some other countries, the OECD conventionis not yet properly enforced.And, again, civil societiesbreathing down the neck of the establishment.
时间：12:01
zh-cn:比如在伦敦，BAE从一桩巨大的腐败事件中侥幸逃脱干系苏瑞惩治诈骗办公室曾尝试惩处他们。每年十亿英镑的贿款，十年以来，被送给了某个友好国家的某个官员这个官因此买了他们440亿英镑的军备。在这个案例里，他们没有在英国得到惩处。为什么呢？因为当局认为惩处与英国人民的安全利益相冲突。公民社会在推动，在尝试给问题找一个解决方案在英国也在日本，那里的对外行贿也没有被好好控制，等等。
en:In London, for instance,where the BAE got awaywith a huge corruption case,which the Serious Fraud Office tried to prosecute,100 million British pounds,every year for ten years,to one particular official of one particular friendly country,who then bought for44 billion pounds of military equipment.This case, they are not prosecuting in the UK.Why? Because they consider thisas contrary to the security interestof the people of Great Britain.Civil society is pushing, civil societyis trying to get a solution to this problem,also in the U.K.,and also in Japan, which is not properly enforcing,and so on.
时间：12:44
zh-cn:在德国，我们在推动签署联合国协定的进程。这是一个后续的协定。德国没有签认。为什么呢？因为签署了它就相当于使惩罚代理人受贿成了必须的事。在德国的系统里，你不能够贿赂一位公务员，但是可以贿赂一位代理人。这是被德国法律所允许的。议会成员不想改动这一点，这就是为什么德国不能签署联合国反对外行贿协定的原因。这是世界上极少数的讲究道德、好管理的的国度之一，但是它不能签署这份通过我们努力，有大约160个国家签署了的协定。
en:In Germany, we are pushingthe ratification of the UN convention,which is a subsequent convention.We are, Germany, is not ratifying.Why? Because it would make it necessaryto criminalize the corruptionof deputies.In Germany, we have a system whereyou are not allowed to bribe a civil servant,but you are allowed to bribe a deputy.This is, under German law, allowed,and the members of our parliament don&#39;t want to change this,and this is why they can&#39;t signthe U.N. convention against foreign bribery —one of they very, very few countrieswhich is preaching honesty and good governance everywhere in the world,but not able to ratify the convention,which we managed to get on the bookswith about 160 countries all over the world.
时间：13:31
zh-cn:我看见我的时间不多了。让我就试着总结一下发生的事。我相信我们在与腐败的斗争中取得的，也可以在政府失效的其他领域中取得。现在，联合国已经完全和我们站在了一边。世界银行已在Wolfensohn领导下从Saulus转向Paulus，也成为了，我敢说，世界上最强的反腐败组织。绝大多数的大公司现在已经完全确信他们需要执行很强的政策以防腐败等等。这是可能做到的，因为公民社会加入了公司也加入了政府一起分析问题推出纠正方法执行改革并在之后，监督改革。
en:I see my time is ticking.Let me just try todraw some conclusions from what has happened.I believe that what we managed to achievein fighting corruption,one can also achievein other areas of failing governance.By now, the United Nationsis totally on our side.The World Bank has turned from Saulus to Paulus; under Wolfensohn,they became, I would say, the strongestanti-corruption agency in the world.Most of the large companiesare now totally convincedthat they have to put in placevery strong policiesagainst bribery and so on.And this is possible because civil societyjoined the companiesand joined the governmentin the analysis of the problem,in the development of remedies,in the implementation of reforms,and then later, in the monitoring of reforms.
时间：14:29
zh-cn:当然，如果公民社会想要参与进来，就得有足够的责任感。不是所有的民权社会组织都是造福人类的。3K党也是个非政府组织呢。所以，我们必须意识到民权社会要不断改良自身。他们有一个透明度高得多的财政管理。他们有一个参与度高得多的管理。在很多民权社会组织里都是如此。我们也需要更胜任的民权社会领袖。这就是为什么我们在柏林建立了管理学校以及民权中心。因为我们相信大多数教育以及研究协会，在德国和欧洲大陆，从大体上来说，都对发展和培育公民社会的力量还不够集中重视。
en:Of course, if civil society organizationswant to play that role,they have to grow into this responsibility.Not all civil society organizations are good.The Ku Klux Klan is an NGO.So, we must be awarethat civil societyhas to shape up itself.They have to have a much moretransparent financial governance.They have to have a much more participatory governancein many civil society organizations.We also need much more competence of civil society leaders.This is why we have set up the governance schooland the Center for Civil Society here in Berlin,because we believe most of our educationaland research institutions in Germanyand continental Europe in general,do not focus enough, yet,on empowering civil societyand training the leadership of civil society.
时间：15:22
zh-cn:但是从我非常实际的经历来看，如果公民社会做得好，并与其他成员齐心协力，尤其是与政府，政府和他们的国际机构，那些活跃在国际舞台上的成员，尤其是那些致力于共同社会责任感的，那么，在这个公民社会、政府和私营部门形成的神奇三角里，就会有巨大的可能性，使我们一起创造出一个更美好的世界。
en:But what I&#39;m saying from my very practical experience:If civil society does it rightand joins the other actors —in particular, governments,governments and their international institutions,but also large international actors,in particular those which have committed themselvesto corporate social responsibility —then in this magical trianglebetween civil society,government and private sector,there is a tremendous chancefor all of us to create a better world.
时间：15:56
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：15:58
zh-cn:（观众掌声）
en:(Applause)
