时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我是从Skype上知道海地地震的。我妻子给我发了个消息，“哇，地震了，”然后就消失了25分钟。这是绝对恐怖的25分钟数以千计的美国人都感觉到了。我曾担心是海啸。我没意识到的是，更可怕的事在海地发生了，那就是建筑坍塌。我们都看到过海地建筑坍塌的照片。这些是我妻子在地震后几天拍摄的，当时我正从D.R.赶往海地。这是国家宫殿，相当于白宫。这是加勒比最大的超市购物高峰时的场面。这是一所护士学校有三百名护士在此学习。学校旁边的综合医院基本安然无恙。这是经济与金融部。
en:I learned about the Haiti earthquake by Skype.My wife sent me a message,&quot;Whoa, earthquake,&quot;and then disappeared for 25 minutes.It was 25 minutes of absolute terrorthat thousands of people across the U.S. felt.I was afraid of a tsunami;what I didn&#39;t realizewas there was a greater terror in Haiti,and that was building collapse.We&#39;ve all seen the photosof the collapsed buildings in Haiti.These are shots my wife tooka couple days after the quake,while I was making my way through the D.R. into the country.This is the national palace —the equivalent of the White House.This is the largest supermarket in the Caribbeanat peak shopping time.This is a nurses&#39; college —there are 300 nurses studying.The general hospital right next dooremerged largely unscathed.This is the Ministry of Economics and Finance.
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:我们都听说了海地地震所造成的巨大的人员伤亡，但我们并不十分了解造成所有这些生命逝去的原因。我们不了解为什么这些建筑会坍塌。毕竟，是这些建筑，而不是地震，导致220,000人死亡、330,000人受伤、130万人无家可归、整个国家都缺乏食物、水和补给品。这是几十年来大城市地区最大的灾难。但它不是自然灾难。它是场工程灾难。
en:We have all heardabout the tremendous human lossin the earthquake in Haiti,but we haven&#39;t heard enoughabout why all those lives were lost.We haven&#39;t heard aboutwhy the buildings failed.After all, it was the buildings,not the earthquake,that killed 220,000 people,that injured 330,000,that displaced 1.3 million people,that cut off foodand water and suppliesfor an entire nation.This is the largest metropolitan-area disasterin decades,and it was not a natural disaster —it was a disaster of engineering.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:AIDG从2007年起开始在海地工作，为小型企业提供工程和商业支持。在地震后，我们带领地震工程师进入震区，以弄清楚什么导致了建筑坍塌，并检查那些没有坍塌的建筑是否安全。我们与MINUSTAH（联合国驻海地稳定特派团）一起工作，他们是联合国驻海地机构，与公共工程部一起工作，还有其他的一些NGO组织，我们检查了超过1500栋建筑。我们检查过的有学校和私人住所。我们还坚持了医疗中心和食品仓库。我也检查了政府的建筑。
en:AIDG has worked in Haitisince 2007,providing engineering and business supportto small businesses.And after the quake, we started bringing in earthquake engineersto figure out why the buildings collapsed,to examine what was safe and what wasn&#39;t.Working with MINUSTAH,which is the U.N. mission in Haiti,with the Ministry of Public Works,with different NGOs,we inspected over 1,500 buildings.We inspected schoolsand private residencies.We inspected medical centersand food warehouses.We inspected government buildings.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:这是司法部。那扇门后是国家司法档案馆。门旁站着的是安德烈.菲利亚特罗，他是布法罗大学跨学科地震工程研究中心的负责人，他正在检查这栋建筑，以确认是否可以安全的重建档案馆。安德烈告诉我，在看到这些建筑不断的以同种方式倒下后，这儿没什么新的发现了。没什么我们不知道的了。问题的根源是相同的—墙和楼板之间没有用柱子正确的连接起来—这是挂在建筑上的天台楼板—悬臂式结构，或是非对称结构，剧烈摇晃并垮塌，低劣的建筑材料，没有足够的混凝土，块与块之间没有足够的压缩空间，螺纹钢表面光滑，螺纹钢暴露在空气中并已经生锈了。
en:This is the Ministry of Justice.Behind that dooris the National Judicial Archives.The fellow in the door, Andre Filitrault —who&#39;s the directorof the Center for Interdisciplinary Earthquake Engineering Researchat the University of Buffalo —was examining it to see if it was safeto recover the archives.Andre told me,after seeing these buildings failagain and again in the same way,that there is no new research here.There is nothing here that we don&#39;t know.The failure points were the same:walls and slabs not tied properly into columns —that&#39;s a roof slab hanging off the building —cantilevered structures,or structures that were asymmetric,that shook violently and came down,poor building materials,not enough concrete,not enough compression in the blocks,rebar that was smooth,rebar that was exposed to the weather and had rusted away.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:现在对所有这些问题有个解决方案。我们知道如何进行适当的建设。证明来自智利，大约一个月后，当时8.8级的地震袭击了智利。五百倍与7.0级地震的力量袭击了太子港—五百倍的能量，然而只造成了低于一千的伤亡。考虑到人口密度，这次地震造成的影响小于海地地震的百分之一。智利与海地之间有什么不同？抗震标准和砖石结构，建筑物作为一个整体—墙、柱子屋顶和楼板连接在一起，相互支撑，以免断裂成块，坠落下来。你看看智利的这栋建筑，它裂成两半，但并没有变成一堆瓦砾。智利人用砖混结构建筑房屋已经有几十年了。
en:Now there&#39;s a solutionto all these problems.And we know how to build properly.The proof of this came in Chile,almost a month later,when 8.8 magnitude earthquakehit Chile.That is 500 timesthe power of the 7.0that hit Port-au-Prince —500 times the power,yet only under a thousand casualties.Adjusted for population density,that is less than one percentof the impact of the Haitian quake.What was the differencebetween Chile and Haiti?Seismic standardsand confined masonry,where the building acts as a whole —walls and columnsand roofs and slabstied together to support each other —instead of breaking off into separate members and failing.If you look at this building in Chile,it&#39;s ripped in half,but it&#39;s not a pile of rubble.Chileans have been building with confined masonryfor decades.
时间： 5:28
zh-cn:目前，AIDG与KPFF咨询工程师，“人本建筑”协会一起为海地带去更多的砖混结构培训。这是埃克赞塔 丹尼尔。他是名泥瓦匠，他只是名普通工人，不是工头，他参加了我们的培训。他最近的工作是跟他的老板一起工作，开始他们出现了浇筑柱子的错误。他让他老板站着旁边，向他老板展示砖混结构的材料。对他老板说，“你知道，我们可以避免这个错误。用正确的方式完成这个工序不会增加任何开销。“他们重建了这个建筑。他们把螺纹钢正确的绑在一起。正确的浇筑柱子。这样的建筑就安全了。而且他们以后建筑的每一栋建筑都会是安全的。
en:Right now, AIDG is working with KPFF Consulting Engineers,Architecture for Humanity,to bring more confined masonry traininginto Haiti.This is Xantus Daniel;he&#39;s a mason,just a general construction worker, not a foreman,who took one of our trainings.On his last job he was working with his boss,and they started pouring the columns wrong.He took his boss aside,and he showed him the materials on confined masonry.He showed him, &quot;You know, we don&#39;t have to do this wrong.It won&#39;t cost us any moreto do it the right way.&quot;And they redid that building.They tied the rebar right,they poured the columns right,and that building will be safe.And every buildingthat they build going forwardwill be safe.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:为了确保这些建筑是安全的，不用制定政策，只要与在场的泥瓦匠们接触帮助他们学习适合的技术。现在，在那儿有许多团体在做这类工作。那儿穿着马甲的家伙，克雷格 图腾，他在推动让记录所有参与这项行动的组织。通过Haiti Rewired，通过Build Change，Architecture for HumanityAIDG，就可能使得全国三万至四万的泥瓦匠接受辅导，并建立一个合格建筑的运动。如果通过这种合作的方式对当地人进行培训，这非常经济实惠。对于花费数十亿的重建工作来说，可以用一些钱来为每栋房屋的泥瓦匠进行培训，他们会把学到的东西用于今后的建设中。
en:To make sure these buildings are safe,it&#39;s not going to take policy —it&#39;s going to take reaching outto the masons on the groundand helping them learn the proper techniques.Now there are many groups doing this.And the fellow in the vest there,Craig Toten,he has pushed forwardto get documentation out to all the groups that are doing this.Through Haiti Rewired,through Build Change, Architecture for Humanity,AIDG,there is the possibilityto reach outto 30,000 — 40,000 masonsacross the countryand create a movement of proper building.If you reach out to the people on the groundin this collaborative wayit&#39;s extremely affordable.For the billions spent on reconstruction,you can train masonsfor dollars on every housethat they end up building over their lifetime.
时间： 7:33
zh-cn:最终，有两个方法来重建海地，第一个方法是海地已经进行了几十年的方法。这个方法建造出易倒塌的结构不良的建筑，第二个方法是建造砖混结构的建筑，这样的建筑中墙壁连接在一起，建筑是对称的，并且能抵御地震。所有的灾难过后，都有机会为下一代建造更好的房屋，这样，当下一次地震袭来时，它只是灾难，而不是悲剧。
en:Ultimately, there are two waysthat you can rebuild Haiti;the way at the topis the way that Haiti&#39;s been building for decades.The way at the topis a poorly constructed buildingthat will fail.The way at the bottom is a confined masonry building,where the walls are tied together,the building is symmetric,and it will stand up to an earthquake.For all the disaster,there is an opportunity hereto build better housesfor the next generation,so that when the next earthquake hits,it is a disaster —but not a tragedy.
时间： 8:15
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
