时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我喜欢树木，而且非常幸运的是我们住在一个非常棒的植物园的附近。星期天的时候，我通常会和我夫人现在是和我四岁的孩子，一起爬树，玩捉迷藏。我上的第二所学校也有不少大树那儿有棵奇异的郁金香树，我认为它是国内最大的一棵。在它和操场的周围，还有很多很棒的灌木和植物。
en:I love trees, and I&#39;m very lucky,because we live near a wonderful arboretum,and Sundays, usually, I&#39;d go there with my wifeand now, with my four-year-old,and we&#39;d climb in the trees, we&#39;d play hide and seek.The second school I was at had big trees too,had a fantastic tulip tree, I think it was the biggest in the country,and it also had a lot of wonderful bushes and vegetationaround it, around the playing fields.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:有一天我被一些同学抓住，带进灌木丛里我被剥光了衣服，我受到攻击，我被虐待，这一切来得那么突然。好了，我之所以那么说，是因为事后，我觉得，嗯，当我返回学校时，我感到肮脏，觉得受到了背叛，我觉得耻辱，但更主要的是—我感到很无力。三十年后我坐在一架飞机里，邻座的是一位来自智利的女士，维罗妮卡。我们参加了一个人权之旅，她开始向我诉说被折磨是什么样的感觉，并且从我特有的立场出发，这是我有的唯一的参照点。那是一个神奇的学习历程，因为对我而言，人权问题是一件你明白，业余的兴趣；但主要来说，它是发生在远方的其他人身上的事。
en:One day I was grabbed by some of my classmates,and taken in the bushes — I was stripped; I was attacked;I was abused; and this came out of the blue.Now, the reason I say that, because, afterwards, I was thinking —well, I went back into the school — I felt dirty; I felt betrayed;I felt ashamed, but mainly — mainly, I felt powerless.And 30 years later I was sitting in an airplane,next to a lady called Veronica, who came from Chile,and we were on a human rights tour,and she was starting to tell me what it was like to be tortured,and, from my very privileged position,this was the only reference point that I had.And it was an amazing learning experiencebecause, for me, human rights have been something in which I had,you know, a part-time interest, but, mainly,it was something that happened to other people over there.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:但是我在1985年接到了波诺的电话你们知道，他是个优秀的歌手，但他是个惊人的说服者，
en:But I got a phone call from Bono in 1985 and, as you know,he&#39;s a great singer, but he&#39;s a magnificent hustler, and —
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter) —
时间： 1:55
zh-cn:我很难对他说不。在我刚做完歌曲&quot;Biko&quot;后，他说，我们正要给“特赦”组织做一个巡演，你一定得参与。于是，那是第一次我真正地出来开始认识一些人他们曾看着自己的家人在自己面前被枪杀，配偶在飞机上被扔进大海里突然之间，人权的世界来到了我的世界，我再也不能像以前那样袖手旁观了。
en:a very hard guy to say no to, and he was saying,you know, just after I&#39;d done the Biko song,we&#39;re going to do a tour for Amnesty,you have to be on it, and really that was the first timethat I&#39;d been out and started meeting peoplewho&#39;d watched their family being shot in front of them,who&#39;d had a partner thrown out of an airplane into an ocean,and suddenly this world of human rights arrived in my world,and I couldn&#39;t really walk away in quite the same way as before.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:所以我开始参与到为“特赦”办的巡演中，并在1988年取代波诺开始学习鼓动别人。我不如他做得好，但是我也成功地使尤索·恩多、斯汀、特蕾西·查普曼、布鲁斯·斯普林斯汀为“特赦”做环球巡演，这是个神奇的经历。再一次，我收获了一份异乎寻常的教育，并且我第一次真正地结识不同国家的许多人有关人权的故事变得活生生起来，再一次，我不能允许自己袖手旁观。
en:So I got involved with this tour, which was for Amnesty,and then in &#39;88 I took over Bono&#39;s job trying to learn how to hustle.I didn&#39;t do it as well, but we managed to get Youssou N&#39;Dour, Sting,Tracy Chapman, and Bruce Springsteen to go &#39;round the world for Amnesty,and it was an amazing experience.And, once again, I got an extraordinary education,and it was the first time, really,that I&#39;d met a lot of these people in the different countries,and these human rights stories became very physical,and, again, I couldn&#39;t really walk away quite so comfortably.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:但最让我惊异的是，我并不知道一个人可以这样地受苦，然后你的全部体验，你的故事，遭到否认被掩盖，被遗忘。然而，好像一旦有照相机或摄像机在或这那些当权者想要掩盖这些故事就变得难了很多。锐步在这些&quot;人权，现在！&quot;巡演后设立了一个基金会并且当时决定恩，我们在几年中提议想要努力设立一个部门给人权活动家派发相机。事实上它无疾而终，之后发生了那个Rodney King事件人们觉得如果你在恰当的时间恰当的地点有个相机，或许是错误的时间，取决于你是谁，那么你真的可以开始做些事情，开始发起运动，开始让别人听见自己的声音，告诉别人发生了什么事。
en:But the thing that really amazed me, that I had no idea,was that you could suffer in this wayand then have your whole experience, your story, denied,buried and forgotten.And it seemed that whenever there was a camera around,or a video or film camera,it was a great deal harder to do — for those in power to bury the story.And Reebok set up a foundation after these Human Rights Now toursand there was a decision then —well, we made a proposal, for a couple of years,about trying to set up a divisionthat was going to give cameras to human rights activists.It didn&#39;t really get anywhere,and then the Rodney King incident happened, and people thought,OK, if you have a camera in the right place at the right time,or, perhaps, the wrong time, depending who you are,then you can actually start doing something,and campaigning, and being heard,and telling people about what&#39;s going on.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:所以，“目击者”在1992年被建立了从此之后一共在六十多个国家派发相机。我们和活动家团体一起开展运动，帮助他们讲述故事一会儿我将给你们展示一个最新的运动，我恐怕它是来自乌干达的一个故事，尽管我们昨天听到了来自乌干达的一个精彩故事，这一个就没那么美好了。在乌干达北部，有将近一百五十万流离失所的人他们并非外国的难民，而是因为长达将近20年的内战而颠沛流离的人们。两万孩子被迫成为童军国际罪犯法庭在追捕五个头目他们来自，那个恩，那个军队叫什么来着，应该是国王反击队而他们的政府也不是廉洁公正的。让我们来看看这第一段录像。
en:So, WITNESS was started in &#39;92and it&#39;s since given cameras out in over 60 countries.And we campaign with activist groupsand help them tell their story and, in fact,I will show you in a moment one of the most recent campaigns,and I&#39;m afraid it&#39;s a story from Uganda,and, although we had a wonderful story from Uganda yesterday,this one isn&#39;t quite so good.In the north of Uganda,there are something like 1.5 million internally displaced people,people who are not refugees in another country,but because of the civil war, which has been going on for about 20 years,they have nowhere to live.And 20,000 kids have been taken away to become child soldiers,and the International Criminal Court is going after five of the leaders of the —now, what&#39;s it called?I forget the name of the of the army —it&#39;s Lord&#39;s Resistance Army, I believe —but the government, also, doesn&#39;t have a clean sheet,so if we could run the first video.
时间： 5:29
zh-cn:（音乐）女：在难民营里的日子从不好过，直至今日也是如此。我们之所以会留在营中，是因为惧怕逼我们进营的那些因素，依然在家乡猖獗。文字：“双重烈焰：乌干达北部的酷刑折磨和颠沛流离”男：当我们在家乡时，是Kony的叛乱的士兵在骚扰我们。一开始的时候我们在营里还是安全的。但是后来政府的士兵开始虐待我们。
en:(Music)Woman: Life in the camp is never simple. Even today life is difficult.We stay because of the fear that what pushed us into the camp ...still exists back home.Text: &quot;Between Two Fires: Torture and Displacement in Northern Uganda&quot;Man: When we were at home, it was Kony&#39;s [rebel] soldiers disturbing us.At first, we were safe in the camp.But later the government soldiers began mistreating us a lot.
时间： 6:11
zh-cn:（齐唱）Jennifer:一个士兵走过来，问我们去哪儿了。Evelyn和我藏在妈妈身后Eveyln:他命令我们坐下，所以我们只好坐下另一个士兵也走了过来Jennifer:那个男人走过来脱我的衣服。另一个把Evelyn带向一边那个玷污了我的人又走向Evelyn，糟蹋了她。那个强暴Evelyn的人则走过来侮辱我。男人：士兵们拿着这么长的棍子拷打我们，严刑逼供。打我们的时候，他们不停地说，“说实话！”女人：他们坚持说我在撒谎。那时，他们开枪射下了我的手指我跌倒了。他们跑回队伍，留着我在那儿等死。
en:(Chanting)Jennifer: A soldier walked onto the road, asking where we&#39;d been.Evelyn and I hid behind my mother.Evelyn: He ordered us to sit down, so we sat down.The other soldier also came.Jennifer: The man came and started undressing me.The other one carried Evelyn aside.The one who was defiling me then left me and went to rape Evelyn.And the one who was raping Evelyn came and defiled me also.Man: The soldiers with clubs this long beat us to get a confession.They kept telling us, &quot;Tell the truth!&quot; as they beat us.Woman: They insisted that I was lying.At that moment, they fired and shot off my fingers.I fell. They ran to join the others ... leaving me for dead.
时间： 7:29
zh-cn:（音乐）文字：乌干达在1986年批准了禁止酷刑公约酷刑的定义是任何官方为了获取信息或供词而在生理或心理上有意地对人施以惩罚、强迫或威胁而导致严重痛楚的行为。
en:(Music)Text: Uganda ratified the Convention Against Torture in 1986.Torture is defined as any act by which severe pain of suffering,whether physical or mental,is intentionally inflicted by a person acting in an official capacityto obtain information or a confession, to punish, coerce or intimidate.
时间： 7:59
zh-cn:而酷刑折磨并不总发生在异国他乡。在我的国家，我们看着英国士兵痛打伊拉克年轻人的照片我们有美军虐囚事件、关塔那摩湾事件我在去纽瓦克机场的时候碰到一个司机，他跟我说了一个发生在凌晨四点的故事。他被带出他在皇后区的家，带到一个中西部的地方，在那里被审讯、拷打，直到四个星期后才被释放，只因为他是个中东人，并且和那个911的劫机犯同名。这个故事不一定真实，尽管我不觉得他是个撒谎者。
en:Peter Gabriel: So torture is not something that always happens on other soil.In my country, it was —we had been looking at pictures of British soldiers beating up young Iraqis;we&#39;ve got Abu Ghraib; we&#39;ve got Guantanamo Bay.I had a driver on my way to Newark Airport,and he told me a story that, in the middle of the night, 4 a.m.,he&#39;d been taken out of his home in Queens — taken to a place in the Midwest,that he was interrogated and torturedand returned to the street four weeks later,because he had the same — he was Middle Eastern,and he had the same name as one of the 9/11 pilots,and that may or may not be true —I didn&#39;t think he was a liar, though.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:我觉得，如果我们环视全球，正如极地冰盖在融化一般，人权，我们为之苦苦抗争，有些抗争了好几百年，也在很快地消融解体。这是我们应该好好地注视，并且或许应该开始为之运动。我们的一个在凡琼斯的合作伙伴以及&quot;要书不要牢笼&quot;的项目，成功地用他们的录像在加州改变了那里的青年改造系统更加人性化的方法开始被运用，包括关于如何囚禁小孩这件本身就很有问题，就像Morales先生的那个故事一样，他说不好意思盖布瑞尔先生，你介不介意我把你的死刑推迟一点儿？我说我一点儿也不介意，慢慢来。但是不论那人是谁，做了什么，那都是残忍的、不同寻常的惩罚。
en:And, I think, if we look around the world,as well as the polar ice caps melting,human rights, which have been fought for,for many hundreds of years in some cases,are, also, eroding very fast,and that is something that we need to take a look atand, maybe, start campaigning for.I mean, here, too, one of our partners was at Van Jonesand the Books Not Bars project — they have managed,with their footage in Californiato change the youth correction systems employed,and it&#39;s much — much — I think, more humane methodsare being looked at, how you should lock up young kids,and that&#39;s questionable to start off.And as the story of Mr. Morales, just down the road,excuse me, Mr. Gabriel,would you mind if we delayed your execution a little bit?No, not at all, no problem, take your time.But this, surely, whoever that man is, whatever he&#39;s done,this is cruel and unusual punishment.
时间：10:09
zh-cn:总而言之，“目击者”一直努力在用相机武装起世界各地的勇敢的、冒着生命危险的人们。让我再给你们看些东西。谢谢。
en:Anyway, WITNESS has been trying to arm the brave peoplewho often put their lives at risk around the world, with cameras,and I&#39;d like to show you just a little more of that. Thank you.
时间：10:27
zh-cn:（雷声）
en:(Thunder) Text: You can say a story is fabricated.
时间：10:30
zh-cn:（音乐）你可以说一个陪审团是腐败的.你可以说一个人是在撒谎.你可以说你不相信报纸上的报导.但是你不能说,你刚看到的从来没有发生过.帮助“目击者”给世界派发相机。拍摄一段录像，揭露不公正展现事实真相向我们展现世界的病症也许这样我们可以为拨乱反正尽一份力。目击者。您刚才所观看的录像都是由与“目击者”一起工作的人权团体拍摄的。
en:(Music)Text: You can say a jury is corrupt.You can say a person is lying.You can say you don&#39;t trust newspapers.But you can&#39;t saywhat you just sawnever happened.Help WITNESS give cameras to the world.Shoot a video;expose injustice;reveal the truth;show us what&#39;s wrong with the world;and maybewe can helpmake itright.WITNESS.All the video you have just seen was recorded byhuman rights groups working with WITNESS.
时间：12:03
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：12:08
zh-cn:“证人”的诞生于科技创新，可以说，小型、便携的数字摄像机真正使它得以来到世上。现在，我们也在想方设法使电脑遍布全球，使团体之间可以更有效地沟通，更有效地开展运动，而现今，自带相机的手机为我们带来了美妙的可能性。因为手机便宜、普及，并且在全球迅速增长，这对我们来说非常振奋。
en:PG: WITNESS was born of technological innovation —in a sense the small, portable, DV camwas really what allowed it to come into being.And we&#39;ve also been trying to get computers out to the world,so that groups can communicate much more effectively,campaign much more effectively,but now we have the wonderful possibility,which is given to us from the mobile phone with the camera in it,because that is cheap; it&#39;s ubiquitous; and it&#39;s moving fastall around the world — and it&#39;s very exciting for us.
时间：12:44
zh-cn:我们的梦想是，世界上任何一个遭遇此类坏事的人，能有机会上传他们的故事，让他们的遭遇展现在世人面前。并且，他们知道自己的声音会被听见，并且会有一个庞大的网站，可能有点像谷歌地球一样，让你能够四处穿越，找出正在发生的事情的真相。从某种意义上，对于世界上的居民们来说，这项科技带来的是，世界上的很多问题能有一张人脸，我们第一次能实在地看到谁因爱滋而垂死，谁被毒打我们能够通过博客文化的方式听到他们的故事如果我们能够把它带入到这些领域中来。我觉得我们真的可以从种种方面改变世界。一个新的运动可能正在成型，从地下生根发芽，向光生长，日益强壮，正如一棵树一般。谢谢。
en:And so, the dream is that we could have a worldin which anyone who has anything bad happen to them of this sorthas a chance of getting their story uploaded,being seen, being watched,that they really know that they can be heard,that there would be a giant website,maybe, a little like Google Earth,and you could fly over and find out the realities of what&#39;s going,for the world&#39;s inhabitants. In a waywhat this technology is allowing is, really,that a lot of the problems of the world can have a human face,that we can actually see who&#39;s dying of AIDSor who&#39;s being beaten up, for the first time,and we can hear their stories in a way that the blogger culture —if we can move that into these sort of fields,I think we can really transform the world in all sorts of ways.There could be a new movement growing up,rising from the ground, reaching for the light,and growing strong, just like a tree. Thank you.
