时间： 0:11
zh-cn:好，首先给大家展示一幅漂亮图片，它来自于我的童年。我特别喜欢这部科幻片。就是这个：《飞碟征空》。就让好莱坞好好诠释它吧，光制作就花了两年半时间。（笑声）我是说，甚至连神创论者都认为地球及万物是6000年前上帝创造出来的，好莱坞还紧随其后。在这部电影中，我们看到了我们认为存在于太空的东西：飞碟和外星人。每个世界都有外星人，每个外星人的世界都有飞碟，他们移动的速度非常快。外星人。
en:So, I want to start out withthis beautiful picture from my childhood.I love the science fiction movies.Here it is: &quot;This Island Earth.&quot;And leave it to Hollywood to get it just right.Two-and-a-half years in the making.(Laughter)I mean, even the creationists give us 6,000,but Hollywood goes to the chase.And in this movie, we see what we think is out there:flying saucers and aliens.Every world has an alien, and every alien world has a flying saucer,and they move about with great speed. Aliens.
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:嗯，我和我的朋友Don Brownlee最终还是厌烦了打开了电视机每天晚上看飞船和外星人，还试着写出不同的观点，还有地球成为可居住星球的条件，还有怎么样才能使星球拥有这样一个地方：在这里，你很可能不仅会获得生命，而且还有各种各样复杂的事情，这需要巨大的演变，还有稳定的外部条件。所以，2000年我们写了《Rare Earth》一书。2003年，我们又提出疑问，我们不要去思考地球在宇宙中的位置，而是要想去想想地球成为地球的时间有多久？若回到20亿年前，你所在的星球将不再是类地行星。我们所说的类地行星其实是一段很短的时间。
en:Well, Don Brownlee, my friend, and I finally got to the pointwhere we got tired of turning on the TVand seeing the spaceships and seeing the aliens every night,and tried to write a counter-argument to it,and put out what does it really take for an Earth to be habitable,for a planet to be an Earth, to have a placewhere you could probably get not just life, but complexity,which requires a huge amount of evolution,and therefore constancy of conditions.So, in 2000 we wrote &quot;Rare Earth.&quot; In 2003, we then asked,let&#39;s not think about where Earths are in space, but how long has Earth been Earth?If you go back two billion years,you&#39;re not on an Earth-like planet any more.What we call an Earth-like planet is actually a very short interval of time.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:其实《Rare Earth》在面对公众方面教会了我很多。在那之后，我收到了科幻大会的邀请，我怀着极大的热情走进了会场。David Brin本打算与我争辩，但我走进会场时，观众们开始发出嘘声。有个女孩走过来，对我说：“我爸爸说你是魔鬼。”你不能打破别人对于外星人的幻想，还指望成为他们的朋友。然后呢，刚过了一会儿，我在和Paul Allen聊天；在观众群众看到了他，然后我递给他一本《Rare Earth》。Jill Tarter也在那儿，她转过来，看着我，就像《驱魔人》中的那个女孩。“着火啦！着火啦！”因为“搜寻地外文明计划”可不想听到这个。他们希望外星球上有东西可寻。我确实会为“搜寻地外文明计划”的努力而鼓掌，可还没听到任何动静。而且我也确实认为我们必须开始思考什么是好星球，什么不是。
en:Well, &quot;Rare Earth&quot; actuallytaught me an awful lot about meeting the public.Right after, I got an invitation to go to a science fiction convention,and with all great earnestness walked in.David Brin was going to debate me on this,and as I walked in, the crowd of a hundred started booing lustily.I had a girl who came up who said, &quot;My dad says you&#39;re the devil.&quot;You cannot take people&#39;s aliens away from themand expect to be anybody&#39;s friends.Well, the second part of that, soon after —and I was talking to Paul Allen; I saw him in the audience,and I handed him a copy of &quot;Rare Earth.&quot;And Jill Tarter was there, and she turned to me,and she looked at me just like that girl in &quot;The Exorcist.&quot;It was, &quot;It burns! It burns!&quot;Because SETI doesn&#39;t want to hear this.SETI wants there to be stuff out there.I really applaud the SETI efforts, but we have not heard anything yet.And I really do think we have to start thinkingabout what&#39;s a good planet and what isn&#39;t.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:现在我给大家展示这个幻灯是因为它告诉我即使“搜寻地外文明计划”听到了一些东西，我们听懂他们说的是什么呢？由于这个幻灯片是在地球上两种智慧——Mac（苹果）和PC（微软）——之间进行转换，而它甚至连字母都弄不对——（笑声）——那我们可怎么跟外星人说话呢？而且，如果他们离咱们50光年远，咱们给他们打电话，然后你叭啦叭啦说了一大堆，50年后收到回复，他们来了一句：“请再说一遍？”终于联系上了，但他们也听不懂我们在说什么。
en:Now, I throw this slide up because it indicates to me that,even if SETI does hear something, can we figure out what they said?Because this was a slide that was passedbetween the two major intelligences on Earth — a Mac to a PC —and it can&#39;t even get the letters right —(Laughter)— so how are we going to talk to the aliens?And if they&#39;re 50 light years away, and we call them up,and you blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,and then 50 years later it comes back and they say, Please repeat?I mean, there we are.
时间： 2:55
zh-cn:我们的星球是个好星球，因为它能储存水。火星就不怎么样，但是如果我们能去，而且如果能在受保护的情况下住在它表面，那还是很不错的。金星是个非常不好——其实是最不好——的星球。即使它是类地星球，即使在其初期，它或许也是类地星球上生命居住的美好港湾，但不久它就败给了一发不可收拾的温室效应——800度的高温的表面——起因就是猖獗的二氧化碳。
en:Our planet is a good planet because it can keep water.Mars is a bad planet, but it&#39;s still good enough for us to go thereand to live on its surface if we&#39;re protected.But Venus is a very bad — the worst — planet.Even though it&#39;s Earth-like, and even though early in its historyit may very well have harbored Earth-like life,it soon succumbed to runaway greenhouse —that&#39;s an 800 degrees [Fahrenheit] surface —because of rampant carbon dioxide.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:我们知道，从天体生物学角度来说，现在确实能够预测地球将来会发生什么。在第一个糟糕的微生物时代之后，我们现在正处在地球上至少还有生命存在的美丽奥利奥时代。寒武纪生命大爆发时，海洋中出现生命，产生极其复杂的食物，由此推断，我们已经经历了一半。第二次微生物时代之前，动物已经出现，我们有足够的时间让它们在这个星球上生存。相反，你听到所有关于地球变暖的事情都会发生。二氧化碳含量减少到百万分之十时，进行光合作用的植物将不再生存，当然动物也会消失了。所以，在那之后，我们估计还会有70亿年时间。太阳的强度和亮度都会增强，最终，在120亿年之后，巨大的太阳将地球消耗殆尽，这就是剩下的。所以，像我们这样的星球会有寿命，而且是很长的寿命，我们现在正处于它的黄金阶段。
en:Well, we know from astrobiology that we can really now predictwhat&#39;s going to happen to our particular planet.We are right now in the beautiful Oreoof existence — of at least life on Planet Earth —following the first horrible microbial age.In the Cambrian explosion, life emerged from the swamps,complexity arose,and from what we can tell, we&#39;re halfway through.We have as much time for animals to exist on this planetas they have been here now,till we hit the second microbial age.And that will happen, paradoxically —everything you hear about global warming —when we hit CO2 down to 10 parts per million,we are no longer going to have to have plantsthat are allowed to have any photosynthesis, and there go animals.So, after that we probably have seven billion years.The Sun increases in its intensity, in its brightness,and finally, at about 12 billion years after it first started,the Earth is consumed by a large Sun,and this is what&#39;s left.So, a planet like us is going to have an age and an old age,and we are in its golden summer age right now.
时间： 4:28
zh-cn:但凡事都有两面性，对吧？现如今，很多人都会年老而死，但糟糕的是，一些人会死于意外。一个星球的命运也同样如此。在接下来的70亿年里，咱们要是足够幸运，地球如果不被海勒·波普彗星碰撞，或不被它附近的某些超新星消灭掉——我们会在你们脚下发现线索。但是意外死亡呢？在过去的200年里，古生物学家都一直密切观察并记录死亡情况。直到法国的Baron Cuvier发现第一只乳齿象作为概念，灭绝才开始引起人们的思考。他当时没法把乳齿象和地球上任何一种骨头对应起来，然后就说，啊哈，灭绝了！不久之后，化石的历史记录开始产生一个非常好的想法，那就是，自从人类复杂的生命真正开始在化石历史上留名的时候到底存在有多少植物和动物。在化石的复杂历史记录中，确实有些时候很多东西看起来很快要灭绝了，于是，地质学家之父或之母把这种现象叫作“物种大灭绝”。
en:But there&#39;s two fates to everything, isn&#39;t there?Now, a lot of you are going to die of old age,but some of you, horribly enough, are going to die in an accident.And that&#39;s the fate of a planet, too.Earth, if we&#39;re lucky enough — if it doesn&#39;t get hit by a Hale-Bopp,or gets blasted by some supernova nearbyin the next seven billion years — we&#39;ll find under your feet.But what about accidental death?Well, paleontologists for the last 200 yearshave been charting death. It&#39;s strange —extinction as a concept wasn&#39;t even thought aboutuntil Baron Cuvier in France found this first mastodon.He couldn&#39;t match it up to any bones on the planet,and he said, Aha! It&#39;s extinct.And very soon after, the fossil record started yieldinga very good idea of how many plants and animals there have beensince complex life really began to leavea very interesting fossil record.In that complex record of fossils,there were times when lots of stuffseemed to be dying out very quickly,and the father/mother geologistscalled these &quot;mass extinctions.&quot;
时间： 5:27
zh-cn:一直以来，人们认为这或许是上帝的行为，也或者是长期，缓慢的气候变化。1980年，在古比奥附近一块露出地面的岩层确实发生了改变。Walter Alvarez试图在这儿弄清楚这些包含着白垩纪时代生物的白色岩石相差的年代，还有上方包含了第三纪化石的粉红岩石。从一个时期到下一个时期需要多长时间？他们的发现让人出乎意料。他们在一层薄薄的粘土层和那层粘土层之间，有一层很薄的红色土层，里面充满了铱。不仅是铱，还有玻璃球粒，和石英颗粒。这些石英颗粒受巨大压力的影响：冲击石英。
en:All along it was thought to be either an act of Godor perhaps long, slow climate change,and that really changed in 1980,in this rocky outcrop near Gubbio,where Walter Alvarez, trying to figure outwhat was the time difference between these white rocks,which held creatures of the Cretaceous period,and the pink rocks above, which held Tertiary fossils.How long did it take to go from one system to the next?And what they found was something unexpected.They found in this gap, in between, a very thin clay layer,and that clay layer — this very thin red layer here —is filled with iridium.And not just iridium; it&#39;s filled with glassy spherules,and it&#39;s filled with quartz grainsthat have been subjected to enormous pressure: shock quartz.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:现在，幻灯片里的白色是白垩粉，积存在温暖的海洋中。这种白垩粉本身由从海面跌落海底的浮游生物组成。所以这种沉淀物90%的成分是活物的尸体，接着你就看到了毫米厚的红色土层，然后是黑色岩石。没有浮游生物时，海底的沉淀物便形成了黑色岩石。这就是小行星灾难时发生的情况，当然是因为这就是当时发生的事。这是著名的白垩纪第三纪灭绝事件。一个直径10公里的物体撞击了星球。结果是整个星球都蒙上了一层薄薄的土层，而且不久之后，恐龙，菊石类就灭绝了。这是Leconteiceras ，还有Celaeceras ，以及其它许多物种。
en:Now, in this slide the white is chalk,and this chalk was deposited in a warm ocean.The chalk itself&#39;s composed by planktonwhich has fallen down from the sea surface onto the sea floor,so that 90 percent of the sediment here is skeleton of living stuff,and then you have that millimeter-thick red layer,and then you have black rock.And the black rock is the sediment on the sea bottomin the absence of plankton.And that&#39;s what happens in an asteroid catastrophe,because that&#39;s what this was, of course. This is the famous K-T.A 10-kilometer body hit the planet.The effects of it spread this very thin impact layer all over the planet,and we had very quickly the death of the dinosaurs,the death of these beautiful ammonites,Leconteiceras here, and Celaeceras over here,and so much else.
时间： 6:54
zh-cn:我意思是，这肯定是真的，因为那时候我们就有了两部好莱坞大片，从1980年到2000年左右，这个例子已经完全改变了我们地质学家对灾难的看法。在那之前，均变说是主导思想：也就是说，如果星球上以前发生了任何事，会有当代的理论来解释。但我们还没亲眼见过巨大的小行星撞击，所以这是新灾变的一种类型。而科学的论据真正解决问题大约要花20年时间：没错，我们被撞了；没错，撞击导致了物种大灭绝。
en:I mean, it must be true,because we&#39;ve had two Hollywood blockbusters since that time,and this paradigm, from 1980 to about 2000,totally changed how we geologists thought about catastrophes.Prior to that, uniformitarianism was the dominant paradigm:the fact that if anything happens on the planet in the past,there are present-day processes that will explain it.But we haven&#39;t witnessed a big asteroid impact,so this is a type of neo-catastrophism,and it took about 20 years for the scientific establishmentto finally come to grips: yes, we were hit;and yes, the effects of that hit caused a major mass extinction.
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:在过去5亿年里，一共有五次物大灭绝，我们称作“Big Five”。从4.5亿年前，到上一次白垩纪第三纪灭绝，也就是第四次，但规模最大的一次是二叠纪生物绝灭事件，有时候也被叫作“大规模灭绝之母”。它们其中的每一次都后来都被归结于大型小星球撞击。但这对吗？
en:Well, there are five major mass extinctionsover the last 500 million years, called the Big Five.They range from 450 million years agoto the last, the K-T, number four,but the biggest of all was the P, or the Permian extinction,sometimes called the mother of all mass extinctions.And every one of these has been subsequently blamedon large-body impact.But is this true?
时间： 7:56
zh-cn:最近一次，也就是二叠纪生物灭绝事件被认为是撞击的结果，原因就是右图这个美丽的结构。这是勃克明斯特富勒，一种碳60，因为它看起来很像我心爱60年代的网格状球顶，叫作“巴基球”。这些证据表明了在2.5亿年前，也就是二叠纪的末期，一颗彗星撞击了我们。彗星撞击的时候，压力产生了巴基球，巴基球又抓到了彗星的尾巴。氦-3：地球表面非常稀少，但在太空里却非常常见。
en:The most recent, the Permian, was thought to have been an impactbecause of this beautiful structure on the right.This is a Buckminsterfullerene, a carbon-60.Because it looks like those terrible geodesic domesof my late beloved &#39;60s,they&#39;re called &quot;buckyballs.&quot;This evidence was used to suggestthat at the end of the Permian, 250 million years ago, a comet hit us.And when the comet hits, the pressure produces the buckyballs,and it captures bits of the comet.Helium-3: very rare on the surface of the Earth, very common in space.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:那么这又是真的吗？1990年，在研究了白垩纪第三纪灭绝10年之后，我搬到了南非，开始在大卡鲁沙漠工作，一年两次。一年年过去后，能看到南非变成了一个新的南非，我感到非常幸运。当时我在研究二叠纪生物灭绝事件，每次都在波尔的墓地露营好几个月。那些化石非常棒。要知道，你可是正在看着古老的祖先呢。他们是类似哺乳动物的爬行动物。从文化角度讲，我们没见过它们。因为没有关于它们的电影。这是Gorgonopsian（兽孔目爬行动物的一种亚目），也叫Gorgon。这种动物的头骨有18英寸长，身高大概有7或8英尺，爬行的样子像蜥蜴，可能长了一颗如狮子一般的头。这是顶极食肉动物，称得上当年的霸王龙。但有太多东西了。这是我可怜儿子Patrick。（笑声）这是古生物学上的虐待儿童。稳住了，你们可是标尺啊。（笑声）
en:But is this true?In 1990, working on the K-T extinction for 10 years,I moved to South Africa to begin work twice a yearin the great Karoo desert.I was so lucky to watch the change of that South Africainto the new South Africa as I went year by year.And I worked on this Permian extinction,camping by this Boer graveyard for months at a time.And the fossils are extraordinary.You know, you&#39;re gazing upon your very distant ancestors.These are mammal-like reptiles.They are culturally invisible. We do not make movies about these.This is a Gorgonopsian, or a Gorgon.That&#39;s an 18-inch long skull of an animalthat was probably seven or eight feet, sprawled like a lizard,probably had a head like a lion.This is the top carnivore, the T-Rex of its time.But there&#39;s lots of stuff.This is my poor son, Patrick.(Laughter)This is called paleontological child abuse.Hold still, you&#39;re the scale.(Laughter)
时间： 9:29
zh-cn:那时候还有个大家伙。55个似哺乳类爬行动物种族。哺乳动物的时代已经真正开始了。2.5亿年前......接着，灾难发生了。然后恐龙时代到来。这完全是一个错误；本来不应该发生的，但却发生了。如今，幸运的是，这种蛇颈龙，跟知更鸟蛋一样大：在拍照之前我才发现这是头骨—这是用来测量的钢笔，确实很小——这是早三叠世时期，也就是物种大灭绝之后。你能看到眼窝和前方的小牙齿。如果那都没法存活的话，我就不可能是今天演讲的这个人了。还有，若它没有生存下来，我们今天就不会在这里了；它们不是哺乳动物。就差了一点儿； 一个物种勉强生存了下来。
en:There was big stuff back then.Fifty-five species of mammal-like reptiles.The age of mammals had well and truly started250 million years ago ...... and then a catastrophe happened.And what happens next is the age of dinosaurs.It was all a mistake; it should have never happened. But it did.Now, luckily,this Thrinaxodon, the size of a robin egg here:this is a skull I&#39;ve discovered just before taking this picture —there&#39;s a pen for scale; it&#39;s really tiny —this is in the Lower Triassic, after the mass extinction has finished.You can see the eye socket and you can see the little teeth in the front.If that does not survive, I&#39;m not the thing giving this talk.Something else is, because if that doesn&#39;t survive, we are not here;there are no mammals. It&#39;s that close; one species ekes through.
时间：10:19
zh-cn:那么，我们能够说清楚谁能生存而谁不能这种模式吗？这差不多是10年工作的尾声了。范围是——红色的线就是物种大灭绝。不过我们也有躲过灾难的幸存者，结果是，优先生存下来的是冷血动物。恒温动物这次受到了重击。幸存者为这个世界繁殖了类似鳄鱼的生物。那时还没有恐龙；只有这种缓慢，蜥蜴类，有鳞，恶心，多沼泽的地方，有几个小型哺乳动物藏在边缘里。他们还将再藏1.6亿年，直到被白垩纪第三季小行星解放。
en:Well, can we say anything about the pattern of who survives and who doesn&#39;t?Here&#39;s sort of the end of that 10 years of work.The ranges of stuff — the red line is the mass extinction.But we&#39;ve got survivors and things that get through,and it turns out the things that get through preferentially are cold bloods.Warm-blooded animals take a huge hit at this time.The survivors that do get throughproduce this world of crocodile-like creatures.There&#39;s no dinosaurs yet; just this slow, saurian, scaly, nasty,swampy place with a couple of tiny mammals hiding in the fringes.And there they would hide for 160 million years,until liberated by that K-T asteroid.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:那么，要是没撞击的话，会怎样呢？我认为，我们会一次又一次地重回前寒武纪时期，也就是第一个微生物时代，而微生物也还仍然存在。它们痛恨我们这种动物。它们很想重回自己的世界。而且也一次又一次地努力尝试。这让我想到导致物种大灭绝的生命，因为它确实本来就与盖亚假说不相容。盖亚的整个假说就是，生命为其本身使世界更美好——周五下午在洛杉矶高速公路上开过车的任何人都相信盖亚假说吗？不是。
en:So, if not impact, what?And the what, I think, is that we returned, over and over again,to the Pre-Cambrian world, that first microbial age,and the microbes are still out there.They hate we animals.They really want their world back.And they&#39;ve tried over and over and over again.This suggests to me that life causing these mass extinctionsbecause it did is inherently anti-Gaian.This whole Gaia idea, that life makes the world better for itself —anybody been on a freeway on a Friday afternoon in Los Angelesbelieving in the Gaia theory? No.
时间：11:34
zh-cn:所以，我确实怀疑有其它的理论。而且生命确实是试图在做自己。虽然并不是无意识地，但确实如此。这就是武器，看起来好像在过去5亿年当中它都是这么做的。通过微生物的新陈代谢，它们会产生氢化硫，而且量相当大。硫化氢对我们人类来说非常致命。百万分之二百这么小的量就能将你杀死。只需要去黑海和其它少数几个地方，像一些湖泊之类的，蹲下来仔细看，你就会发现水本身变成紫色了。变成紫色，是因为数不尽的微生物出现，它们必须有阳光，而且还得有硫化氢。现在我们能检测到它们的存在，也能看得见，但是以前也能检测到。
en:So, I really suspect there&#39;s an alternative,and that life does actually try to do itself in —not consciously, but just because it does.And here&#39;s the weapon, it seems, that it did so over the last 500 million years.There are microbes which, through their metabolism,produce hydrogen sulfide,and they do so in large amounts.Hydrogen sulfide is very fatal to we humans.As small as 200 parts per million will kill you.You only have to go to the Black Sea and a few other places — some lakes —and get down, and you&#39;ll find that the water itself turns purple.It turns purple from the presence of numerous microbeswhich have to have sunlight and have to have hydrogen sulfide,and we can detect their presence today — we can see them —but we can also detect their presence in the past.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:过去的三年时间是在新领域的重大突破。我也快灭绝了——我是个收集化石的古生物学家。但新一波的古生物学家，也就是我们的研究生们，他们收集生物标记。他们取沉淀物本身，从其中提取油，通过油，又能制作混合物，结果发现这种混合物适于某种特定的微生物种群。这是因为油脂太粗糙了，它们可以通过沉淀物保存下来，然后经过上百亿年，被提取出来，还能告诉我们谁曾经在那儿生存过。
en:And the last three years have seenan enormous breakthrough in a brand-new field.I am almost extinct —I&#39;m a paleontologist who collects fossils.But the new wave of paleontologists — my graduate students —collect biomarkers.They take the sediment itself, they extract the oil from it,and from that they can produce compoundswhich turn out to be very specific to particular microbial groups.It&#39;s because lipids are so tough, they can get preserved in sedimentand last the hundreds of millions of years necessary,and be extracted and tell us who was there.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:这个我们知道。二叠纪末期时，在很多物种灭绝的边界上，我们发现了这个： isorenieratene（编者注：一种类胡罗卜素化合物，只有在生活在缺氧水化变层附近的绿色硫细菌身上才能找到）。这很具体了。只有在海面上缺氧时才会产生，还得完全充满了足够的硫化氢——才会从溶液中析出。这使得来自滨州的Lee Kump和我团队的另外一些人提出了我称为“坎普假说”的理论：很多物种大灭绝都是由于氧气含量的降低，以及二氧化碳浓度的增大。全球变暖最严重的影响就是：海洋会产生硫化氢。
en:And we know who was there. At the end of the Permian,at many of these mass extinction boundaries,this is what we find: isorenieratene. It&#39;s very specific.It can only occur if the surface of the ocean has no oxygen,and is totally saturated with hydrogen sulfide —enough, for instance, to come out of solution.This led Lee Kump, and others from Penn State and my group,to propose what I call the Kump Hypothesis:many of the mass extinctions were caused by lowering oxygen,by high CO2. And the worst effect of global warming, it turns out:hydrogen sulfide being produced out of the oceans.
时间：13:31
zh-cn:那么，根源是什么呢？在这种情况下，反复的根源就是洪流玄武岩。如果我们从地球榨取的太多，这就是它现在的样子。它们每个都看起来好像氢弹；其实，后果会更糟。这是地下深层物质到了表面，然后扩散到星球表面。并不是火山岩杀死了一切，是二氧化碳。这可不是沃尔沃，这是火山。但二氧化碳就是二氧化碳。
en:Well, what&#39;s the source of this?In this particular case, the source over and over has been flood basalts.This is a view of the Earth now, if we extract a lot of it.And each of these looks like a hydrogen bomb;actually, the effects are even worse.This is when deep-Earth material comes to the surface,spreads out over the surface of the planet.Well, it&#39;s not the lava that kills anything,it&#39;s the carbon dioxide that comes out with it.This isn&#39;t Volvos; this is volcanoes.But carbon dioxide is carbon dioxide.
时间：14:00
zh-cn:这些数据是来自耶鲁的Rob Berner和我一起得出的，我们现在试着追踪整个岩层的二氧化碳含量。我们有很多种方法。在我称之为“温室物种大灭绝”的情况发生时，就会有这些红线了。对我来说，有两件事非常明显，那就是，二氧化碳上升会导致灭绝。第二件事没有在这展示：二氧化碳含量为百万分之一千时，地球上从来没有冰。现在已经到了百万分之三百八是，还在继续攀升。我们最多能在300年后保持在百万分之一千，但我在西雅图的朋友David Battisti说他认为一百年就差不多了。这就是冰盖，这是海平面上升了240英尺。我现在住在一座景观房子里；将来还会有滨水区。
en:So, these are new data Rob Berner and I — from Yale — put together,and what we try to do now istrack the amount of carbon dioxide in the entire rock record —and we can do this from a variety of means —and put all the red lines here,when these — what I call greenhouse mass extinctions — took place.And there&#39;s two things that are really evident here to me,is that these extinctions take place when CO2 is going up.But the second thing that&#39;s not shown on here:the Earth has never had any ice on itwhen we&#39;ve had 1,000 parts per million CO2.We are at 380 and climbing.We should be up to a thousand in three centuries at the most,but my friend David Battisti in Seattle says he thinks a 100 years.So, there goes the ice caps,and there comes 240 feet of sea level rise.I live in a view house now;I&#39;m going to have waterfront.
时间：14:50
zh-cn:好吧，会有什么后果呢？海洋很可能变成紫色的。我们还认为这就是为什么地球上产生复杂生命的时间如此之久。含有硫化氢的海洋已经存在了相当长的时间。它们阻止了复杂生命的存在。我们知道，最近在地球上少数地方硫化氢开始爆发。给大家展示这个幻灯——哦，这是我，两个月前——给大家展示这个幻灯是因为这是我最喜欢的动物，贝类动物鹦鹉螺。5亿年前，这个星球上刚有动物的时候它就存在了。这是个追踪实验，你们这些潜水员中任何一个如果想加入史上最酷工程之一的话，这就是大堡礁。正如我们所说，我们正追踪这些鹦鹉螺的行动。
en:All right, what&#39;s the consequence? The oceans probably turn purple.And we think this is the reason that complexity took so longto take place on planet Earth.We had these hydrogen sulfide oceans for a very great long period.They stop complex life from existing.We know hydrogen sulfide is erupting presently a few places on the planet.And I throw this slide in — this is me, actually, two months ago —and I throw this slide in because here is my favorite animal, chambered nautilus.It&#39;s been on this planet since the animals first started — 500 million years.This is a tracking experiment, and any of you scuba divers,if you want to get involved in one of the coolest projects ever,this is off the Great Barrier Reef.And as we speak now,these nautilus are tracking out their behaviors to us.
时间：15:35
zh-cn:但是关键是，每隔一阵儿，我们这些潜水者就会碰上麻烦，所以我会进行项思维实验。这是头大白鲨，它中了我的圈套。我们把它拉了上来。所以，它晚上跟我待在一起。我游着泳，它能把我腿扯掉。当时离岸边80英里，我会怎么样呢？现在肯定已经死了。5年之内，我希望这能发生在我身上。我被拖到船上，别人给我戴上了防毒面具：因为硫化氢的含量有百万分之八十。然后我被扔进冰池里，体温降了15度。接下来可能会被送到重症监护室。我会这么做的另外一个原因是因为我们哺乳动物已经经历了一系列硫化氢事件，我们的身体也已经适应了。我认为，可以利用这点成为重大的医学突破。
en:But the thing about this is that every once in a whilewe divers can run into trouble,so I&#39;m going to do a little thought experiment here.This is a Great White Shark that ate some of my traps.We pulled it up; up it comes. So, it&#39;s out there with me at night.So, I&#39;m swimming along, and it takes off my leg.I&#39;m 80 miles from shore, what&#39;s going to happen to me?Well now, I die.Five years from now, this is what I hope happens to me:I&#39;m taken back to the boat, I&#39;m given a gas mask:80 parts per million hydrogen sulfide.I&#39;m then thrown in an ice pond, I&#39;m cooled 15 degrees lowerand I could be taken to a critical care hospital.And the reason I could do that is because we mammalshave gone through a series of these hydrogen sulfide events,and our bodies have adapted.And we can now use this as what I think will be a major medical breakthrough.
时间：16:24
zh-cn:这是Mark Roth。他受美国国防部高级研究计划局（DARPA）资助,试图弄清楚怎么样才能拯救在战场受伤的美国人。他拿猪做实验，把它割伤流血。注入了百万分之八十的硫化氢——这种物质也是从过去物种大灭绝中存活下来的——然后哺乳动物就变成了爬行动物。“我认为，从这个结果中我们看出，哺乳动物和爬行动物经受了一系列遭遇——与硫化氢接触。”我两年前收到他的邮件；他说：“对于你的一些问题，我想我找到了答案。”所以，现在他用小鼠做实验，时间是4个小时，有时候6小时。在我来这儿的路上，他把这些全新的数据发给了我。现在看，顶部的温度是生存下来的老鼠的体温——就是那条虚线，表示温度。起始温度是25度，然后下降，下降。六小时之后，又上升。现在，还是同样一只老鼠，同样是这个图，给空气中注入百万分之八十硫化氢，观察它的体温变化。下降了。从35度降到了15度，然后又安然无恙了。
en:This is Mark Roth. He was funded by DARPA.Tried to figure out how to save Americans after battlefield injuries.He bleeds out pigs.He puts in 80 parts per million hydrogen sulfide —the same stuff that survived these past mass extinctions —and he turns a mammal into a reptile.&quot;I believe we are seeing in this response the result of mammals and reptileshaving undergone a series of exposures to H2S.&quot;I got this email from him two years ago;he said, &quot;I think I&#39;ve got an answer to some of your questions.&quot;So, he now has taken mice downfor as many as four hours, sometimes six hours,and these are brand-new data he sent me on the way over here.On the top, now, that is a temperature record of a mouse who has gone through —the dotted line, the temperatures.So, the temperature starts at 25 centigrade,and down it goes, down it goes.Six hours later, up goes the temperature.Now, the same mouse is given 80 parts per million hydrogen sulfidein this solid graph,and look what happens to its temperature.Its temperature drops.It goes down to 15 degrees centigrade from 35,and comes out of this perfectly fine.
时间：17:30
zh-cn:这种方法，能让人进重症监护室。还能让人的体温冷到一定程度，直到被送进重症监护。现在你们都在想，没错，那大脑组织呢？因此这是即将发生的最巨大挑战之一。你出意外了。有两个选择：死掉，否则你就要呼吸硫化氢，大概你75%的心智能被救活。怎么办呢？我们是不是都必须有一个小按钮，写着“让我死吧”？这正在发生，我认为这将成为一场革命。我们要拯救生命，但要付出代价。
en:Here is a way we can get people to critical care.Here&#39;s how we can bring people cold enough to last till we get critical care.Now, you&#39;re all thinking, yeah, what about the brain tissue?And so this is one of the great challenges that is going to happen.You&#39;re in an accident. You&#39;ve got two choices:you&#39;re going to die, or you&#39;re going to take the hydrogen sulfideand, say, 75 percent of you is saved, mentally.What are you going to do?Do we all have to have a little button saying, Let me die?This is coming towards us,and I think this is going to be a revolution.We&#39;re going to save lives, but there&#39;s going to be a cost to it.
时间：18:06
zh-cn:对物种大灭绝，从一个新的角度看，是的，我们被撞击了，而且，是的，我们不得不从长远考虑，因为我们会再次被撞击。但是我们将面对一个更糟的情况。要回到那个充满硫化氢的世界轻而易举。再有几千年的时间——咱们人类应该还能再活几千年吧——这种事情会发生吗？如果继续下去的话，肯定会。有多少人是坐飞机来的？有多少人仅仅因为今年坐飞机的次数就通不过京都议定书中的限额？有多少人超标了？没错，我肯定超了。对人类种族来说，还有一个重大的问题等着我们。我们必须将其解决。我想重回大堡礁。谢谢。
en:The new view of mass extinctions is, yes, we were hit,and, yes, we have to think about the long term,because we will get hit again.But there&#39;s a far worse danger confronting us.We can easily go back to the hydrogen sulfide world.Give us a few millennia —and we humans should last those few millennia —will it happen again? If we continue, it&#39;ll happen again.How many of us flew here?How many of us have gone throughour entire Kyoto quotajust for flying this year?How many of you have exceeded it? Yeah, I&#39;ve certainly exceeded it.We have a huge problem facing us as a species.We have to beat this.I want to be able to go back to this reef. Thank you.
时间：18:46
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：18:52
zh-cn:Chris Anderson：Peter，我有个问题要问你。我是不是理解对了，你的意思是说在我们自己身体里对硫化氢有一种生化反应，您认为是由于气候变化才导致了物种大灭绝？
en:Chris Anderson: I&#39;ve just got one question for you, Peter.Am I understanding you right, that what you&#39;re saying hereis that we have in our own bodiesa biochemical response to hydrogen sulfidethat in your mind proves that there have been past mass extinctionsdue to climate change?
时间：19:07
zh-cn:Peter Ward：对，我们的每个细胞都能产生巨大危机中的微量硫化氢。这是Roth发现的。那么，我们现在面对的是：会有信号吗？会在骨头或者植物上有信号吗？然后我们又回到化石记录中试图检测在过去发生了多少事情。
en:Peter Ward: Yeah, every single cell in uscan produce minute quantities of hydrogen sulfide in great crises.This is what Roth has found out.So, what we&#39;re looking at now: does it leave a signal?Does it leave a signal in bone or in plant?And we go back to the fossil record and we could try to detecthow many of these have happened in the past.
时间：19:23
zh-cn:Chris Anderson：这既是一种不可思议的医疗技术，但也很恐怖......
en:CA: It&#39;s simultaneouslyan incredible medical technique, but also a terrifying ...
时间：19:28
zh-cn:Peter Ward：是把双刃剑。
en:PW: Blessing and curse.
