时间： 0:11
zh-cn:大家早上好你们都知道 电脑和电视都接近60岁了而今天我很想跟大家谈谈他们之间的关系尽管他们已经到中年了 但如果你读懂这次的主题在本次讲座或者娱乐工业中很明显他们中的一个正侵蚀着另外一个所以现在是时候我们来谈谈电脑是如何侵蚀着电视的或者 为什么原子弹的发明带来的压力会导致作家的罢工这并不是他们相互之间斗争但这是观众想确实存在的事情
en:Well, good morning.You know, the computer and television both recently turned 60,and today I&#39;d like to talk about their relationship.Despite their middle age, if you&#39;ve been following the themesof this conference or the entertainment industry,it&#39;s pretty clear that one has been picking on the other.So it&#39;s about time that we talked about how the computer ambushed television,or why the invention of the atomic bombunleashed forces that lead to the writers&#39; strike.And it&#39;s not just what these are doing to each other,but it&#39;s what the audience thinks that really frames this matter.
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:来明白这一点这是一个星期以来我们一直谈论的事最近我跟很多中立者谈过我在卡纸上写着 电视 广播 MySpace 和上网电脑然后我说 排列这些词语 根据哪些对你说是重要的哪些不是 然后解释给我听原因来听听什么事情发生 当他们来到谈论电视的这一部分
en:To get a sense of this,and it&#39;s been a theme we&#39;ve talked about all week,I recently talked to a bunch of tweeners.I wrote on cards: &quot;television,&quot; &quot;radio,&quot; &quot;MySpace,&quot; &quot;Internet,&quot; &quot;PC.&quot;And I said, just arrange these, from what&#39;s important to youand what&#39;s not, and then tell me why.Let&#39;s listen to what happens when they get to the portionof the discussion on television.
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:视频：我觉得这是很重要的 不过不是必须的因为当你有空的时候 比起看电视 你还有更多的东西要做
en:(Video) Girl 1: Well, I think it&#39;s important but, like, not necessarybecause you can do a lot of other stuff with your free time than watch programs.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:你觉得哪个更有意思？因特网还是电视？
en:Peter Hirshberg: Which is more fun, Internet or TV?
时间： 1:21
zh-cn:因特网我想这就是我们为什么把互联网摆在电视前因为现在 例如 我们可以把电视节目放在电脑里放噢 是的你也可把它下载到你的iPod
en:Girls: Internet.Girl 2: I think we — the reasons, one of the reasons we put computer before TVis because nowadays, like, we have TV shows on the computer.(Girl 3: Oh, yeah.)Girl 2: And then you can download onto your iPod.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:你想不想成为一个电视网的总裁呢？
en:PH: Would you like to be the president of a TV network?
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:我不想那压力太大了没有
en:Girl 4: I wouldn&#39;t like it.Girl 2: That would be so stressful.Girl 5: No.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:为什么这样想呢
en:PH: How come?
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:因为他们最终都会损失很多金钱就像股票市场一样 他们会升 会跌诸如此类我想现在电脑是在位置最高而其每一样东西都会跌这样
en:Girl 5: Because they&#39;re going to lose all their money eventually.Girl 3: Like the stock market, it goes up and down and stuff.I think right now the computers will be at the topand everything will be kind of going down and stuff.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:Peter Hirshberg:这就是电视产业和这个技术产业 真的他们就要快三十岁了我们都曾经历沉迷的时代跟随着在金融团体的会议室中的反应那个金融的词语能最贴切去形容呢？Ick pooey
en:PH: There&#39;s been an uneasy relationship between the TV businessand the tech business, really ever since they both turned about 30.We go through periods of enthrallment,followed by reactions in boardrooms, in the finance communitybest characterized as, what&#39;s the finance term? Ick pooey.
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:让我给你们一些例子。这是1976年华纳想收购Atari 因为当时视频游戏正处于上升时期接下辖的一年 他们继续向前迈进 他们引入了Qube这是第一个有线互动电视系统而纽约时报也报道了它就好像电子通信进入每家每户一样融合 伟大的事情正发生着每一个住在东部海边的人都拍进画面中花旗 彭尼和美国无线电公司也出现在这个如此巨大的画面中随便来说，这正是我走进时代背景的时候。我打算到时代华纳做暑期工那个夏天 我基本上都呆在华纳我很兴奋能做一些融合的东西 但接下来就垮台了运行效果不是很好 他们在亏本我很高兴能得到这次聚合的洗礼知道 华纳虽然根本上清算这件事
en:Let me give you an example of this. The year is 1976,and Warner buys Atari because video games are on the rise.The next year they march forward and they introduce Qube,the first interactive cable TV system,and the New York Times heralds thisas telecommunications moving to the home,convergence, great things are happening.Everybody in the East Coast gets in the pictures —Citicorp, Penney, RCA — all getting into this big vision.By the way, this is about when I enter the picture.I&#39;m going to do a summer internship at Time Warner.That summer I&#39;m all — I&#39;m at Warner that summer —I&#39;m all excited to work on convergence, and then the bottom falls out.Doesn&#39;t work out too well for them, they lose money.And I had a happy brush with convergenceuntil, kind of, Warner basically has to liquidate the whole thing.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:之后我毕业离开了学校 但我不能在纽约工作在这种娱乐和技术下因为我不得不来到加州 去寻找那里剩余的工作几乎穿洋过海 最终我到了苹果公司工作华南因为这次损失了四亿的美金四亿的美金 在70年代是一个大数目但他们已经有所成绩 并且越来越好在2000年他们发展很好。他们并购了AOL用了4年的时间改进管理 他们赚了2万亿的美金根据市场走势 他们正确确实掌握这个艺术成功应用了摩尔定律 制造了微型的成功应用了摩尔定律 制造了他们的微型资产负债表
en:That&#39;s when I leave graduate school, and I can&#39;t work in New Yorkon kind of entertainment and technologybecause I have to be exiled to California, where the remaining jobs are,almost to the sea, to go to work for Apple Computer.Warner, of course, writes off more than 400 million dollars.Four hundred million dollars, which was real money back in the &#39;70s.But they were onto something and they got better at it.By the year 2000, the process was perfected. They merged with AOL,and in just four years, managed to shed about 200 billion dollarsof market capitalization, showing that they&#39;d actually mastered the artof applying Moore&#39;s law of successive miniaturizationto their balance sheet.
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:现在，我想媒体和娱乐机构或者媒体集团做出这样的原因是他们被技术组织驱使得太疯狂了技术人员谈论的是不同的东西你知道，这50年来 我们一直在谈论改变世界这是关于转变的问题这50年里充满了希望和恐惧和承诺创造一个更好的世界 我想你知道 谁会这样说答案是非常清楚的对于那些信仰宗教和从事政治的人说
en:Now, I think that one reason that the media and the entertainment communities,or the media community, is driven so crazy by the tech communityis that tech folks talk differently.You know, for 50 years, we&#39;ve talked about changing the world,about total transformation.For 50 years, it&#39;s been about hopes and fearsand promises of a better world. And I got to thinking,you know, who else talks that way?And the answer is pretty clearly —it&#39;s people in religion and in politics.
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:我意识到技术的世界是最容易理解的这不是一个商业循环 而是一个救世运动我们承诺某些伟大的东西，我们传道这些我们要改变世界 但是结果不是很好我们只好重新回到起点 再重新开始就像在纽约和洛杉矶的人一样 看上去绝对的病态惊讶这个很无理的观点是驱使我们注意到另外一个事物上
en:And so I realized that actually the tech world is best understood,not as a business cycle, but as a messianic movement.We promise something great, we evangelize it,we&#39;re going to change the world. It doesn&#39;t work out too well,and so we actually go back to the well and start all over again,as the people in New York and L.A. look on in absolute, morbid astonishment.But it&#39;s this irrational view of things that drives us on to the next thing.
时间： 4:34
zh-cn:因此 我喜欢去问 如果电脑便成为媒体和娱乐工具，这是怎样变成这样的？我的意思是 一个本来是为了计算和改变大炮发射的机器怎会进入到媒体的圈子里？
en:So, what I&#39;d like to ask is, if the computer is becoming a principal toolof media and entertainment, how did we get here?I mean, how did a machine that was built for accountingand artillery morph into media?
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:当然 第一部电脑就是建在刚刚二战之后来解决军队的问题， 但事情却在几年之后变得有趣 在1949旋风式的速度建设了MIT的林肯试验室，Jay Forester为海军建造了它但你情不自禁地想象着这个创新的机器会是怎样的呢一部机器竟然成为了媒体的明日之星接下来我们看看当一个资深的电视界记者遇上了最早的电脑发展人士然后电脑开始解释自己
en:Of course, the first computer was built just after World War IIto solve military problems, but things got really interestingjust a couple of years later — 1949 with Whirlwind,built at MIT&#39;s Lincoln Lab. Jay Forrester was building this for the Navy,but you can&#39;t help but see that the creator of this machine had in minda machine that might actually be a potential media star.So take a look at what happens when the foremost journalistof early television meets one of the foremost computer pioneers,and the computer begins to express itself.
时间： 5:19
zh-cn:视频：这是一台Whirlwind电子电脑有着可想而知的恐惧我们承担采访这台机器的任务
en:(Video) Journalist: It&#39;s a Whirlwind electronic computer.With considerable trepidation,we undertake to interview this new machine.
时间： 5:26
zh-cn:你好纽约，这是芝加哥而这是Whirlwind电脑的示波器如果我用这台机器 你是否愿意呢？
en:Jay Forrester: Hello New York, this is Cambridge.And this is the oscilloscope of the Whirlwind electronic computer.Would you like if I used the machine?
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:那当然。不过我有一个主意，Mr.Forrester自从这台电脑制造以后一直与海军研究所保持协议为什么不在华盛顿的五角大楼使用它让海军的研究所所长， 海军将领Bolster拿出Whirlwind做实验
en:Journalist: Yes, of course. But I have an idea, Mr. Forrester.Since this computer was madein conjunction with the Office of Naval Research,why don&#39;t we switch down to the Pentagon in Washingtonand let the Navy&#39;s research chief, Admiral Bolster,give Whirlwind the workout?
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:好，Ed，这个问题主要关心的海军的维京盗火箭这个火箭可以上升到135米的半空中现在，我们燃油消费标准我很愿意通过电脑来看火箭的飞行线路来看看他怎样决定的，在任何时刻说在最后40秒，剩下燃油的总量在那瞬间的速率在左手边你可以看到燃油在火箭升空后一路减少在右手边，有一个标杆可以指示火箭的速度火箭的位置可以通过轨迹来展示我们现在可以看到我们看到它到达了他弹道的顶点速度，你可以注意的到，它变成了一个很小的数字当火箭向下将多的时候，速度又会增加起来当火箭掉回到地上 速度是最大的
en:Calvin Bolster: Well, Ed, this problem concerns the Navy&#39;s Viking rocket.This rocket goes up 135 miles into the sky.Now, at the standard rate of fuel consumption,I would like to see the computer trace the flight path of this rocketand see how it can determine, at any instant,say at the end of 40 seconds, the amount of fuel remaining,and the velocity at that set instant.JF: Over on the left-hand side,you will notice fuel consumption decreasing as the rocket takes off.And on the right-hand side, there&#39;s a scalethat shows the rocket&#39;s velocity.The rocket&#39;s position is shown by the trajectorythat we&#39;re now looking at.And as it reaches the peak of its trajectory,the velocity, you will notice, has dropped off to a minimum.Then, as the rocket dives down, velocity picks up againtoward a maximum velocity and the rocket hits the ground.
时间： 6:46
zh-cn:这是什么呢？将军，你有什么想法看上去真的很不错
en:How&#39;s that?Journalist: What about that, Admiral?CB: Looks very good to me.
时间： 6:52
zh-cn:所以在离开之前 我们想向你们展示另一种小伙子们解决的数学问题在某个空闲的时间 一个较为轻松的周日下午
en:JF: And before leaving, we would like to show you another kind ofmathematical problem that some of the boys have worked outin their spare time, in a less serious vein, for a Sunday afternoon. (Music)
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:实在太感谢你们。Mr.Forrester 和 the MIT实验室
en:Journalist: Thank you very much indeed, Mr. Forrester and the MIT lab.
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:你看，成就这么多。第一时间反应这个视频展示， 指着一根枪。它只是着一个台微型电脑不过很不幸 它对于海军来说实在太昂贵了所有的这些都可能被失去如果他们不是为了一个和谐的事情一起
en:PH: You know, so much was worked out: the first real-time interaction,the video display, pointing a gun. It lead to the microcomputer,but unfortunately, it was too pricey for the Navy,and all of this would have been lostif it weren&#39;t for a happy coincidence.
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:原子弹踏上了时代的舞台现在我们已经被这个威力无限的武器威胁着但当初出现的时候 我们知道这是一件好的事物空军决定了它需要最强大的电脑来保护我们它适用于Whirlwind的巨大防空系统将它部署在天寒地冻的北方在这台电脑上花费了将近三倍的花在整个曼哈顿计划上的金钱在第一个地点建造A-Bomb再说说这对于整个电脑工业带来的刺激你可以想象空军会变成很好的销售人员这是他们的营销广告
en:Enter the atomic bomb.We&#39;re threatened by the greatest weapon ever,and knowing a good thing when it sees it,the Air Force decides it needs the biggest computer ever to protect us.They adapt Whirlwind to a massive air defense system,deploy it all across the frozen north,and spend nearly three times as much on this computeras was spent on the Manhattan Projectbuilding the A-Bomb in the first place.Talk about a shot in the arm for the computer industry.And you can imagine that the Air Force became a pretty good salesman.Here&#39;s their marketing video.
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:视频：一个迅猛、规模庞大的炸弹袭击可能随时后发生在我们身上但在我们判定它的轨迹的时候再去反应已经太迟了我们不能冒这样的风险。为了应付这种威胁 空军研发了SAGE一个半自动的地面部署系统来加强我们的空中防御能力这个新型的电脑 将会成为我们这个防御系统的中枢神经能够演算各种复杂的电脑运算包括可以预计敌人大规模的袭击它需要拥有一个发电室需要一个大型的柴油发电机空气调节设备 和一个冷却塔来降低电脑中数以千计的电子管的温度
en:(Video) Narrator: In a mass raid, high-speed bombers could be in on usbefore we could determine their tracks.And then it would be too late to act.We cannot afford to take that chance.It is to meet this threat that the Air Force has been developing SAGE,the Semi-Automatic Ground Environment system,to strengthen our air defenses.This new computer, built to become the nerve center of a defense network,is able to perform all the complex mathematical problemsinvolved in countering a mass enemy raid.It is provided with its own powerhousecontaining large diesel-driven generators,air-conditioning equipment, and cooling towersrequired to cool the thousands of vacuum tubes in the computer.
时间： 9:07
zh-cn:你知道，这台电脑是非常巨大的从这里我们可以看到一堂非常有趣的营销课程基于你怎样推销一个产品或者你更可以说 这将会变得非常美好让你感觉更加好 使你充满活力或者可以从另外一个营销角度，如果你不用我们的产品，你会死掉这真是一个非常好的例子
en:PH: You know, that one computer was huge.There&#39;s an interesting marketing lesson from it,which is basically, when you market a product,you can either say, this is going to be wonderful,it will make you feel better and enliven you.Or there&#39;s one other marketing proposition: if you don&#39;t use our product, you&#39;ll die.This is a really good example of that.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:这是第一台定点设备。他得到了推广并且成功了，分布式计算和调节器所有这些东西都可以使每一个人可以互相谈话白分之二十的国家计划都与这个东西有关这导致了我们现在很多今天拥有的东西。当然还有电子管你看到它是多么的庞大，它就是给你这样的感觉因为我们之前说了太多摩尔定律使得很多东西都变得很微观这场演讲上，我们谈谈这些东西变大吧如果我们把Whirlwind放在一个地方，你就会知道说，世纪城，这最适合不过了不过你需要将世纪城搬出来 但或者它适合那里
en:This had the first pointing device. It was distributed,so it worked out — distributed computing and modems —so all these things could talk to each other.About 20 percent of all the nation&#39;s programmers were wrapped up in this thing,and it led to an awful lot of what we have today. It also used vacuum tubes.You saw how huge it was, and to give you a sense for this —because we&#39;ve talked a lot about Moore&#39;s law and making things smallat this conference, so let&#39;s talk about making things large.If we took Whirlwind and put it in a place that you all know,say, Century City, it would fit beautifully.You&#39;d kind of have to take Century City out, but it could fit in there.
时间：10:00
zh-cn:或者，我们想象我们拿出最新的奔腾处理器最新酷睿2至尊版这个四核处理器这个英特尔致力研发 它很可能会在日后用在我们笔记本电脑上如果我们需要用Whirlwind技术达到同样的目的我们粗略计算需要占据10条穆赫兰大道和405个拉西埃内加就刚刚好够Whirlwinds使用了然后需要92座核电站用来提供电力需求这刚好用完省下的洛杉矶的地方粗略计算这将回3倍法国能制造的核电站发电所以 如果下次他们告诉他们正在做这样的事情，可以清晰告诉他们你们不可以但，我们还没有装上我们需要的冷却装置但它给与你没一个人拥有的力量，每一位观众能够都有的力量这就是为什么这些转变在发生
en:But like, let&#39;s imagine we took the latest Pentium processor,the latest Core 2 Extreme, which is a four-core processorthat Intel&#39;s working on, it will be our laptop tomorrow.To build that, what we&#39;d do with Whirlwind technology iswe&#39;d have to take up roughly from the 10 to Mulholland,and from the 405 to La Cienega just with those Whirlwinds.And then, the 92 nuclear power plantsthat it would take to provide the powerwould fill up the rest of Los Angeles.That&#39;s roughly a third more nuclear power than all of France creates.So, the next time they tell you they&#39;re on to something, clearly they&#39;re not.So — and we haven&#39;t even worked out the cooling needs.But it gives you the kind of power that people have, that the audience has,and the reasons these transformations are happening.
时间：10:44
zh-cn:这些所有东西都开始向工业化进展DEC它简化了这些并制造了一台迷你电脑这些还出现在像MIT的这些地方，这些改变正在发生星球大战第一款的电脑游戏就是这样诞生 一切发生都非常突然交互 参与和带动都一起发生事实上，现在很多MIT学生依然坚持日夜奋战去为这个事物工作今天很多规则的游戏都在产生DEC知道一个好的想法肯定要浪费很多时间每一个人在他的电脑上都玩着这样的游戏
en:All of this stuff starts moving into industry.DEC kind of reduces all this and makes the first mini-computer.It shows up at places like MIT, and then a mutation happens.Spacewar! is built, the first computer game, and all of a sudden,interactivity and involvement and passion is worked out.Actually, many MIT students stayed up all night long working on this thing,and many of the principles of gaming today were worked out.DEC knew a good thing about wasting time.It shipped every one of its computers with that game.
时间：11:15
zh-cn:同时，到了50年代中期 这所有东西都发生了传统的广播和电影院商业模式彻底的破产新技术使得广播从业者和电影巨头都非常困惑他们肯定电视会帮助他们事实上，广播最为绝望引用一个例子 那些声音已经快成为回忆了这一切都来自我一直以来读到的东西RCA让David Sarnoff一个基本上靠商业赚钱的人说这些话，我并不会说广播网必须要破产每一个努力的成果都在实现 并且会持续出现去创造一个新的模式，一个新销售安排新型的节目将会赢回正消减中的收入这很可能会弥补现在广播存在的不足但是我还不知道怎样做当然，电脑工业发展了互动电视产业刚刚出来的时候也是想做同样的理念不过它们的只是假装
en:Meanwhile, as all of this is happening, by the mid-&#39;50s,the business model of traditional broadcasting and cinemahas been busted completely.A new technology has confounded radio men and movie mogulsand they&#39;re quite certain that television is about to do them in.In fact, despair is in the air.And a quote that sounds largely reminiscentfrom everything I&#39;ve been reading all week.RCA had David Sarnoff, who basically commercialized radio,said this, &quot;I don&#39;t say that radio networks must die.Every effort has been made and will continue to be madeto find a new pattern, new selling arrangementsand new types of programs that may arrest the declining revenues.It may yet be possible to eke out a poor existence for radio,but I don&#39;t know how.&quot;And of course, as the computer industry develops interactively,producers in the emerging TV business actually hit on the same idea.And they fake it.
时间：12:24
zh-cn:视频：各位，我想你们都知道怎样去用你们神奇窗户按下这个按钮，你就可以使用它首先你们把Winky Dink的工具拿出来拿出你们的神奇窗户和你们清洁手套和橡皮 这样做这就是我们如何将神奇的东西带进去就是这样对你们的电视机屏幕这样做就是这样由中间向四角摩擦务必使你的神奇蜡笔拿在手上，你的Winky Dink蜡笔还有你的清洁手套因为你需要当节目开始的时候 你需要用他们来画你们都准备好了吗？好的，现在让我们一起带入第一个关于Dusty Man的故事快来我们这个秘密实验室
en:(Video) Jack Berry: Boys and girls, I think you all know how to get your magic windowsup on the set, you just get them out.First of all, get your Winky Dink kits out.Put out your Magic Window and your erasing glove, and rub it like this.That&#39;s the way we get some of the magic into it, boys and girls.Then take it and put it right up against the screen of your own television set,and rub it out from the center to the corners, like this.Make sure you keep your magic crayons handy, your Winky Dink crayonsand your erasing glove,because you&#39;ll be using them during the show to draw like that.You all set? OK, let&#39;s get right to the first story about Dusty Man.Come on into the secret lab.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:教授：这就是交互电视的雏形，你还可以注意到那么只想向你销售Winky Dink装备那些是Winky Dink蜡笔 我知道你现在想说什么“Pete，我可以用任何普通来源的蜡笔为什么我要买这些？”我肯定你的意见，但这并不是重点他们只想告诉我们这是唯一可以用的蜡笔如果你想用你的Winky Dink神奇窗户其他蜡笔可能使得窗户退色或者受损伤这些销售商锁定专利将继续被完善以取得更大成功当这个在这个拥有同样规则的视窗系统普及每个角落这件事引起诉讼
en:PH: It was the dawn of interactive TV, and you may have noticedthey wanted to sell you the Winky Dink kits.Those are the Winky Dink crayons. I know what you&#39;re saying.&quot;Pete, I could use any ordinary open-source crayon,why do I have to buy theirs?&quot;I assure you, that&#39;s not the case.Turns out they told us directly that these are the only crayonsyou should ever use with your Winky Dink Magic Window,other crayons may discolor or hurt the window.This proprietary principle of vendor lock-inwould go on to be perfected with great successas one of the enduring principles of windowing systems everywhere.It led to lawsuits —
时间：13:33
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter) —
时间：13:34
zh-cn:联邦的调查和很多人的反应这是一宗丑闻 但我们不会在今天讨论
en:federal investigations, and lots of repercussions,and that&#39;s a scandal we won&#39;t discuss today.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:我们之所以会谈到这宗丑闻，原因关于一个人，Jack Berry,Winky Dink的主持人之后他成为“21”节目的主持，这一个当今以来最重要的一个智力竞赛节目这个节目后来因为作弊而解散当时在一个名叫Charles van Doren不正常地连赢后被查出作弊这也结束了Berry&#39;s的职业生涯事实上，这件事也使得很多CBS的员工事业这件事有很多经验值得学习关于一个新型媒体应该怎样运作
en:But we will discuss this scandal, because this man, Jack Berry, the host of &quot;Winky Dink,&quot;went on to become the host of &quot;Twenty One,&quot; one of the most important quiz shows ever.And it was rigged, and it became unraveled when this man,Charles van Doren, was outed after an unnatural winning streak,ending Berry&#39;s career.And actually, ending the career of a lot of people at CBS.It turns out there was a lot to learnabout how this new medium worked.
时间：14:06
zh-cn:如果在50年前，你也遇到这样的情况你也要尝试去理解媒体只有一个先知，也是唯一一个，可能你也听过马肖·麦克卢汉教授他事实上了解我们我们一直以来谈论的主体。受众的作用在一个普及的电子传播年代以下是他在60年代的谈话
en:And 50 years ago, if you&#39;d been at a meeting like thisand were trying to understand the media,there was one prophet and only but one you wanted to hear from,Professor Marshall McLuhan.He actually understood something about a themethat we&#39;ve been discussing all week. It&#39;s the role of the audiencein an era of pervasive electronic communications.Here he is talking from the 1960s.
时间：14:27
zh-cn:视频：如果受众可以包含在整个广告中，它会很开心。就好像我们很老的智力游戏节目他们很好的电视节目 因为他们给与了受众角色 让他们有东西做他们很害怕当他们发现他们一直以来都被节目欺骗现在 可怕的是部分节目制作者对于电视的误解
en:(Video) Marshall McLuhan: If the audience can become involved in the actual processof making the ad, then it&#39;s happy. It&#39;s like the old quiz shows.They were great TV because it gave the audience a role, something to do.They were horrified when they discoveredthey&#39;d really been left out all the time because the shows were rigged.Now, then, this was a horrible misunderstanding of TVon the part of the programmers.
时间：14:51
zh-cn:教授：你知道，麦克卢汉谈论过地球村的理论如果你以今天互联网所形成的世界博客圈为例子你会发现他的理解非常发人深省。现在我们来听听
en:PH: You know, McLuhan talked about the global village.If you substitute the word blogosphere, of the Internet today,it is very true that his understanding is probablyvery enlightening now. Let&#39;s listen in to him.
时间：15:02
zh-cn:视频：地球村就是一个世界它不一定是和谐的你对于其他人的事业极其关注并在很大程度上牵扯到别人的生活中就如Anne Landers说的那样显而易见它并不一定表示和谐 和平和宁静但是他一定表示每一个人的事情都彼此相连地球村或者好像一个星球那么大或者就好像一个村庄邮局那么小
en:(Video) MM: The global village is a worldin which you don&#39;t necessarily have harmony.You have extreme concern with everybody else&#39;s businessand much involvement in everybody else&#39;s life.It&#39;s a sort of Ann Landers&#39; column writ large.And it doesn&#39;t necessarily mean harmony and peace and quiet,but it does mean huge involvement in everybody else&#39;s affairs.And so the global village is as big as a planet,and as small as a village post office.
时间：15:33
zh-cn:我们之后我们还会谈到关于他的一些东西我们现在刚好可以回到60年代这是一个用计算机作为大的商业发展和数据中心的年代但是这一切都将改变你知道 这是技术诠释反映了人们和当时所形成的文化当我说代码符号表达了我们的希望和抱负的时候这不是一个对于救世主概念的嘲笑，这的确是我们现在做的东西但对于这部分的故事 我想还是把它交给还是交给美国顶尖的技术通讯记者 John Markoff
en:PH: We&#39;ll talk a little bit more about him later.We&#39;re now right into the 1960s.It&#39;s the era of big business and data centers for computing.But all that was about to change.You know, the expression of technologyreflects the people and the time of the culture it was built in.And when I say that code expresses our hopes and aspirations,it&#39;s not just a joke about messianism, it&#39;s actually what we do.But for this part of the story, I&#39;d actually like to throw itto America&#39;s leading technology correspondent, John Markoff.
时间：16:00
zh-cn:视频：你想知道反主流文化在毒品 性 摇滚和反战运动对于计算机的发展有什么影响吗？一切在我站的地方5米范围内都在发生在斯坦福大学， 1960年至1975年之间在街头的革命运动公园里举行的摇滚音乐会一群由John McCarthy带领的研究队伍一个在斯坦福人工智能实验室里的计算机科学家和名叫Doug Engelbart在SRI的计算机科学家 改变着世界Engelbar 来自一个非常枯燥的工程师文化但当他开始工作的时候所有这些东西都在中半岛沸腾有一块大屏幕泄露了Keasey在老军人医院的实验还有在校园其他地方的还有确实在街头演奏的音乐感恩而死乐队在一家比萨店里演奏人们纷纷离开回到本地去有越南的战争 有黑人的解放运动还有妇女的解放运动这是一个值得纪念的地方在一个值得纪念的时间微处理器在动乱的时候来了
en:(Video) John Markoff: Do you want to know what the counterculturein drugs, sex, rock &#39;n&#39; roll and the anti-war movementhad to do with computing? Everything.It all happened within five miles of where I&#39;m standing,at Stanford University, between 1960 and 1975.In the midst of revolution in the streetsand rock and roll concerts in the parks,a group of researchers led by people like John McCarthy,a computer scientist at the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Lab,and Doug Engelbart, a computer scientist at SRI, changed the world.Engelbart came out of a pretty dry engineering culture,but while he was beginning to do his work,all of this stuff was bubbling on the mid-peninsula.There was LSD leaking out of Kesey&#39;s Veterans&#39; Hospital experimentsand other areas around the campus,and there was music literally in the streets.The Grateful Dead was playing in the pizza parlors.People were leaving to go back to the land.There was the Vietnam War. There was black liberation.There was women&#39;s liberation.This was a remarkable place, at a remarkable time.And into that ferment came the microprocessor.
时间：17:04
zh-cn:我想他的互动功能导致了个人电脑的出现他们看到这些工具由旧社会所控制所以一些东西能够解放出来被一些尝试建立的社团所使用最重要的是 他们有分享信息的社会思潮我想这些概念都很难去理解因为当你困在一些旧模式中新的模式总是像科幻虚拟出来的宇宙 没有意思这些故事都在迫使我去决定写一本书去记载它这本书的题目是：“the Dormouse说：60年代的反主流文化如何导致了个人电脑产业的出现”这个题目市来自歌词Jefferson Airplane的歌 歌词这样说“还记得the dormouse 说，喂你的头脑 喂你的头脑 喂你的头脑”
en:I think it was that interaction that led to personal computing.They saw these tools that were controlled by the establishmentas ones that could actually be liberated and put to useby these communities that they were trying to build.And most importantly, they had this ethos of sharing information.I think these ideas are difficult to understand,because when you&#39;re trapped in one paradigm,the next paradigm is always like a science fiction universe — it makes no sense.The stories were so compelling that I decided to write a book about them.The title of the book is, &quot;What the Dormouse Said:How the &#39;60s Counterculture Shaped the Personal Computer Industry.&quot;The title was taken from the lyricsto a Jefferson Airplane song. The lyrics go,&quot;Remember what the dormouse said.Feed your head, feed your head, feed your head.&quot; (Music)
时间：18:37
zh-cn:教授：现在计算机已经跳入了媒体的范围并且迅速发展到我们今天所做的这些在剑桥和硅谷都可以想象这是Architecture Machine Group，在1981年媒体实验室的前身同时，在加州，我们尝试将很多东西商业化HyperCard是第一个项目向公众介绍超链接在那里你可以随意的调出任何类型的照片或者文本和资料 从文件系统中我们没办法解释它也没有什么比喻 这是一个数据库吗？一个样本研究工具 还是一种计算机语言？见鬼，它是一切东西 结果我们需要些一个营销的小册子
en:PH: By this time, computing had kind of leapt into media territory,and in short order much of what we&#39;re doing today was imaginedin Cambridge and Silicon Valley.Here&#39;s the Architecture Machine Group,the predecessor of the Media Lab, in 1981.Meanwhile, in California, we were trying to commercialize a lot of this stuff.HyperCard was the first programto introduce the public to hyperlinks,where you could randomly hook to any kind of picture,or piece of text, or data across a file system,and we had no way of explaining it.There was no metaphor. Was it a database?A prototyping tool? A scripted language?Heck, it was everything. So we ended up writing a marketing brochure.
时间：19:13
zh-cn:我们问了关于这个想法怎样运作的问题我们让我们的客户扮演了盲人摸象的角色几年之后， 我们终于想到一个主意向人们解释秘密所在 你可以得到任何你想要的内容你想得到的途径和最容易的方法？这是苹果营销的视频
en:We asked a question about how the mind works,and we let our customers play the role of so many blind men filling out the elephant.A few years later, we then hit on the ideaof explaining to people the secret of, how do you get the content you want,the way you want it and the easy way?Here&#39;s the Apple marketing video.
时间：19:34
zh-cn:视频：你会很乐意去知道 我肯定 有几种途径可以创造一个HyperCard互动视频最多人使用的方法是直接使用去做你自己的视频光盘和建造你自己的HyperCard书库目前最简单的方法是买一张预先做好的视频光盘和HyperCard书库 从供应商那里我们在视频中所描述的方法使用预先做好的视频光盘 但创建了定制的HyperCard书库这种方法允许1你使用现存的视频光盘素材这种方法可以满足你特别的需要和兴趣
en:(Video) James Burke: You&#39;ll be pleased to know, I&#39;m sure, that there are several waysto create a HyperCard interactive video.The most involved method is to go aheadand produce your own videodiscas well as build your own HyperCard stacks.By far the simplest method is to buy a pre-made videodiscand HyperCard stacks from a commercial supplier.The method we illustrate in this videouses a pre-made videodisc but creates custom HyperCard stacks.This method allows you to use existing videodisc materialsin ways which suit your specific needs and interests.
时间：20:05
zh-cn:我希望你们意识到它的破坏性所在就像那个Dick Cheney的演讲你觉得他是个挺可爱的秃顶男 但是他刚刚宣布一场战争一个内容商业战争 找到适合有商业价值的东西让它更加吸引 从你的角度讲故事现在 只要我们限制这种方法用语教育产业市场关于电脑和文件系统之间的个人问题这就好，但当你看到，它很吸引和使得Jack Valenti和其他人心烦
en:PH: I hope you realize how subversive that is.That&#39;s like a Dick Cheney speech.You think he&#39;s a nice balding guy, but he&#39;s just declared waron the content business. Find the commercial stuff,mash it up, tell the story your way.Now, as long as we confine this to the education market,and a personal matter between the computer and the file system,that&#39;s fine, but as you can see, it was about to leap out and upset Jack Valentiand a lot of other people.
时间：20:29
zh-cn:随便说说，说起这个文件管理系统 从来没有在我们身边发生用超链接可以在当地的局域网几年过后 Tim Berners-Lee成功研制出来它变成一个杀手级软件的链接 当然在今天也是我们叫做万维网现在 不仅我借助这个帮助苹果发展因特网几年之后 我也帮助比尔·盖茨做同样的事情这一年是1933他做一本书何我做一个视频帮助他解释我们现在努力的地方和如何让它流行起来我们很注意到我们正搞乱媒体在表面却好像我们正预示着很多好的东西放生但是我们也措施很多很棒的东西 现在我们来看看
en:By the way, speaking of the filing system, it never occurred to usthat these hyperlinks could go beyond the local area network.A few years later, Tim Berners-Lee worked that out.It became a killer app of links, and today, of course,we call that the World Wide Web.Now, not only was I instrumental in helping Apple miss the Internet,but a couple of years later, I helped Bill Gates do the same thing.The year is 1993and he was working on a book and I was working on a videoto help him kind of explain where we were all heading and how to popularize all this.We were plenty aware that we were messing with media,and on the surface, it looks like we predicted a lot of the right things,but we also missed an awful lot. Let&#39;s take a look.
时间：21:22
zh-cn:视频：金字塔 古罗马剧场 纽约地铁系统和冷冻饭餐 从古至今的所有人造奇迹世界每一个都显得苍白和没有意义完成的时候都成为这些21世纪华丽的技术信息高速公路从前只是一些计算机迷和一些已经被遗忘的政客的梦想信息高速公路在20世纪后期来到美国人的起居室中让我们回忆那些使得这项奇迹技术成为可能的先锋信息高速公路是沿着前人的路发展的第一个提出的是Alexander Graham Bell虽然一些并不相信——电话公司被那些希望在大众传播中从广告中赚大钱的渴望搞乱David Sarnoff使广播商业化没有科学家让给自己那么多要求和承受那么多压力媒介向美国介绍这新产品说，妈妈，Windows让广播更令人享受使得整个家庭更容易使用当然在家里和工作都可以用Windows听广播在1939年，美国广播公司引进了电视没有科学家让给自己那么多要求和承受那么多压力
en:(Video) Narrator: The pyramids, the Colosseum, the New York subway systemand TV dinners, ancient and modern wonders of the man-made world all.Yet each pales to insignificance with the completionof that magnificent accomplishment of twenty-first-century technology,the Digital Superhighway.Once it was only a dream of technoids and a few long-forgotten politicians.The Digital Highway arrived in America&#39;s living rooms late in the twentieth century.Let us recall the pioneers who made this technical marvel possible.The Digital Highway would follow the rutted trailfirst blazed by Alexander Graham Bell.Though some were incredulous ... Man 1: The phone company!Narrator: Stirred by the prospects of mass communicationand making big bucks on advertising,David Sarnoff commercializes radio.Man 2: Never had scientists been put under such pressure and demand.Narrator: The medium introduced America to new products.Voice 1: Say, mom, Windows for Radio means more enjoymentand greater ease of use for the whole family.Be sure to enjoy Windows for Radio at home and at work.Narrator: In 1939, the Radio Corporation of America introduced television.Man 2: Never had scientists been put under such pressure and demand.
时间：23:00
zh-cn:最终这场竞赛却在未来又树立起一座纪念碑打开了电话公司的缺口更深远的刺激继续来到违反规管的有线电视和再受政府规管的有线电视我们确实努力去建造这个 有线产业现在广播公司想分我们的钱，我觉得这是荒谬的电脑 从前是一个笨重的工具其他的逃离了后房逃出来的怪人都进入到媒体的骚乱中世界和文化差异月来越小所有媒体形成了共同语言融合的压力爆发
en:Narrator: Eventually, the race to the future took on added momentumwith the breakup of the telephone company.And further stimulus camewith the deregulation of the cable television industry,and the re-regulation of the cable television industry.Ted Turner: We did the work to build this, this cable industry,now the broadcasters want some of our money. I mean, it&#39;s ridiculous.Narrator: Computers, once the unwieldy tools of accountants and other geeks,escaped the backrooms to enter the media fracas.The world and all its culture reduced to bits,the lingua franca of all media.And the forces of convergence exploded.
时间：23:43
zh-cn:最后，四个大的工业部门结合电信业 娱乐业 电脑和其他所有我们看到寻找美食的渠道我们看到很多渠道可以找到宠物爱好者接下来在美食宠物频道为你的德国刚毛狼犬做一个生日蛋糕这个行业是为了给那些主人的宠物提供一个地方下赌注 这是为你消费者而设的战争和你拥有花费数十亿来发送很多信息到美国的店铺的权利
en:Finally, four great industrial sectors combined.Telecommunications, entertainment, computing and everything else.Man 3: We&#39;ll see channels for the gourmetand we&#39;ll see channels for the pet lover.Voice 2: Next on the gourmet pet channel,decorating birthday cakes for your schnauzer.Narrator: All of industry was in play, as investors flocked to place their bets.At stake: the battle for you, the consumer,and the right to spend billions to send a lot of information into the parlors of America. (Music)
时间：25:10
zh-cn:我们漏掉了很多。你知道，我们错过了因特网长尾 受众的角色 开放的系统 社区网络这只是看来很难想出如何正确应用在媒体上Thomas Edison 有同样的问题当他发明留声机的时候 他写了一系列关于留声机的用处但那么多点子中只有一个后来被事实证实。好的 你知道我们从哪里开始我们来到dot com的年代 万维网我不需要告诉你关于这个因为我们都很热闹地参与其中但是这种关系展露出来 我们说这是Web 2.0所有事情 实际上变得很不一样了我想这是这样原因 电视被受挑战因特网1是关于页面 现在是关于人它是客户 它是受众 它是一个人参与其中最令人敬畏的是他正在改变娱乐产业
en:PH: We missed a lot. You know, you missed, we missed the Internet,the long tail, the role of the audience, open systems, social networks.It just goes to show how tough it is to come up with the right uses of media.Thomas Edison had the same problem.He wrote a list of what the phonograph might be good for when he invented it,and kind of only one of his ideasturned out to have been the right early idea.Well, you know where we&#39;re going on from here.We come into the era of the dotcom, the World Wide Web,and I don&#39;t need to tell you about thatbecause we all went through that bubble together.But when we emerge from this and what we call Web 2.0,things actually are quite different.And I think it&#39;s the reason that TV&#39;s so challenged.If Internet one was about pages, now it&#39;s about people.It&#39;s a customer, it&#39;s an audience, it&#39;s a person who&#39;s participating.It&#39;s the formidable thing that is changing entertainment now.
时间：26:01
zh-cn:视频：因为它给了观众一个角色，一些事情做。
en:(Video) MM: Because it gave the audience a role, something to do.
时间：26:04
zh-cn:在我的公司，Technorati我们看到 有一些东西像67000博客在一个小时内更新这有2700个新鲜的链接在大约1亿1千2百万博客在那里毫无疑问当我们陷入到编剧罢工的时候 奇怪的事就发生了你知道 这让我回忆起以前在好莱坞看到的事情有一个制片人 任何人都知道他是一个比那句我现在想任何人有一个有线调节器都可以做网络老板但是这不是一个玩笑。 它是一个真正的头条“网络聚集了罢工的编剧”“运营商网站好像 MyDamnChannel.com可以从劳资纠纷中获利。”同时，你可以有自己的电视博客来对电视的编剧表示赞同你有TV Guide，a Fox prperty他们将会赞助在线视频颁奖但是却取消了对传统电视的赞助但不要幸灾乐祸来看看你听得有些精神分裂了这是Mypace，Fox互动传媒， 新闻集团的领导人被问到，好，对于编剧的罢工是不是会伤害新闻集团而使你集中上网？
en:PH: In my own company, Technorati,we see something like 67,000 blog posts an hour come in.That&#39;s about 2,700 fresh, connective linksacross about 112 million blogs that are out there.And it&#39;s no wonder that as we head into the writers&#39; strike, odd things happen.You know, it reminds me of that old saw in Hollywood,that a producer is anyone who knows a writer.I now think a network boss is anyone who has a cable modem.But it&#39;s not a joke. This is a real headline.&quot;Websites attract striking writers:operators of sites like MyDamnChannel.comcould benefit from labor disputes.&quot;Meanwhile, you have the TV bloggers going out on strike,in sympathy with the television writers.And then you have TV Guide, a Fox property,which is about to sponsor the online video awards —but cancels it out of sympathy with traditional television,not appearing to gloat.To show you how schizophrenic this all is,here&#39;s the head of MySpace, or Fox Interactive, a News Corp company,being asked, well, with the writers&#39; strike,isn&#39;t this going to hurt News Corp and help you online?
时间：27:10
zh-cn:视频：但是 我，我想如果罢工持续下去 那么还会有机会这会让更多的人去体现放在像MySpace TV上的视频
en:(Video) Man: But I, yeah, I think there&#39;s an opportunity. As the strike continues,there&#39;s an opportunity for more people to experiencevideo on places like MySpace TV.
时间：27:18
zh-cn:教授：Oh,但他还是记得他是为默多克工作的
en:PH: Oh, but then he remembers he works for Rupert Murdoch.
时间：27:21
zh-cn:视频：是的，好，首先，你知道，我是新闻集团的成员也是福克斯娱乐集团的成员当然我希望罢工的问题能够尽快解决
en:(Video) Man: Yes, well, first, you know, I&#39;m part of News Corporationas part of Fox Entertainment Group.Obviously, we hope that the strike is —that the issues are resolved as quickly as possible.
时间：27:30
zh-cn:教授：另一项很重要的事正在发生的是内容全球化正在发生这是视频的一个片断，来自一个动画由好莱坞的编剧编写动画开始在以色列，随后又到了克罗地亚和印度继续完成现在这变成了国际的系列
en:PH: One of the great things that&#39;s going on here isthe globalization of content really is happening.Here is a clip from a video, from a piece of animationthat was written by a writer in Hollywood,animation worked out in Israel, farmed out to Croatia and India,and it&#39;s now an international series.
时间：27:52
zh-cn:视频：这个发生在2：15pm至2：18pm之间发生在总统预算的几个月前
en:(Video) Narrator: The following takes place between the minutes of 2:15 p.m. and 2:18 p.m.,in the months preceding the presidential primaries.
时间：28:00
zh-cn:你需要呆在这个安全房子里知道我们结束全球的恐怖袭击威胁
en:Voice 1: You&#39;ll have to stay here in the safe houseuntil we get word the terrorist threat is over.
时间：28:05
zh-cn:你的意思 我们还要一起住在这里？跟她？恩，这就是我们的社区了。
en:Voice 2: You mean we&#39;ll have to live here, together?Voices 2, 3 and 4: With her?Voice 2: Well, there goes the neighborhood.
时间：28:13
zh-cn:公司穿凿了这个，Aniboom是一个很有趣的例子这是一个趋向。就传统电视动画成本来说，介于每分钟80000和10000美元之间而他们成本就只有每分钟1500至800美元之间而且他们分给创作者30%的利润比企业的做法还有多很多。所以这是一个不同的模式什么是娱乐产业最为争取的呢算出来是世界品牌
en:PH: The company that created this, Aniboom, is an interesting exampleof where this is headed. Traditional TV animation costs, say,between 80,000 and 10,000 dollars a minute.They&#39;re producing things for between 1,500 and 800 dollars a minute.And they&#39;re offering their creators 30 percent of the back end,in a much more entrepreneurial manner. So, it&#39;s a different model.What the entertainment business is struggling with,the world of brands is figuring out.
时间：28:37
zh-cn:例如，Nike现在明白Nike Plus 并不是它鞋子的一个设备它是一个网络吸引他的客户聚集一起就如Nike市场部领导人说 人们都来我们的网站平均每周三次。我们不需要去接触他们这也意味着NIke将减低57%的电视广告不过，正如NIke市场部领导人说“我们并不是要让那些运行媒体的公司一直经营下去。”我们是做联系客户的工作。“
en:For example, Nike now understands that Nike Plus is not just a device in its shoe,it&#39;s a network to hook its customers together.And the head of marketing at Nike says, &quot;People are coming to our sitean average of three times a week. We don&#39;t have to go to them.&quot;Which means television advertising is down 57 percent for Nike.Or, as Nike&#39;s head of marketing says,&quot;We&#39;re not in the business of keeping media companies alive.We&#39;re in the business of connecting with consumers.&quot;
时间：29:04
zh-cn:媒体公司也意识到它的受众是重要的这是一个人在道琼斯股票宣布一个崭新的市场趋势它的动力完全由用户在主页分享的经验提供用户生产的内容和传统的内容结合如果你能吸引到他们 你可以有更为庞大的用户和利润或者，正如Geoffrey Moore从前跟我说过，引起理智的好奇心是创造品牌的需求在博客圈子的年代我想这也同时在娱乐产业发生
en:And media companies realize the audience is important also.Here&#39;s a man announcing the new Market Watch from Dow Jones,powered 100 percent by the user experience on the home page —user-generated content married up with traditional content.It turns out you have a bigger audience and more interest if you hook up with them.Or, as Geoffrey Moore once told me,it&#39;s intellectual curiosity that&#39;s the trade that brands needin the age of the blogosphere.And I think this is beginning to happen in the entertainment business.
时间：29:31
zh-cn:我心中其中一位英雄人物是歌曲创作者 Ally Willis她刚刚写了一首叫“the color purple&quot;的歌曲她曾经是R&amp;B的作曲者，这也是她说关于作曲应往哪里去
en:One of my heroes is songwriter, Ally Willis,who just wrote &quot;The Color Purple&quot; and has been an R and —rhythm and blues writer, and this is what she saidabout where songwriting&#39;s going.
时间：29:41
zh-cn:Ally Willis：我们数百万个同好者都想要歌曲因为我们需要严格看他们就像电子邮件迷失了媒介究竟是用来做什么的
en:Ally Willis: Where millions of collaborators wanted the song,because to look at them strictly as spamis missing what this medium is about.
时间：29:52
zh-cn:这，怎样解决，我想还是把这个问题交会给马克卢汉在40年前 他在研究受众的问题时正面临很多的改变我想今天在传统的好莱坞 编剧尝试创作新的东西或者就好像那么以前一直创作一样但我不需要告诉你这个，还是把问题交给他吧
en:PH: So, to wrap up, I&#39;d love to throw it back to Marshall McLuhan,who, 40 years ago, was dealing with audiencesthat were going through just as much change,and I think that, today, traditional Hollywood and the writersare framing this perhaps in the way that it was being framed before.But I don&#39;t need to tell you this, let&#39;s throw it back to him.
时间：30:11
zh-cn:视频：我们正处于新和旧的东西冲击中媒介就是会为人们做的东西而且他们还会常常没有意识到这点他们真的没有察觉新的媒体正包围着他们他们总想这旧媒体因为旧媒体总是新媒体的内容因为电影就好像是电视的内容就好像书被用作内容一样小说经常被用作电影的题材所以每次一种新的媒介来临旧媒体是内容，它有很高的观察度很受大家注意，但是它却被新媒体大量篡改和胡乱对待它被忽视了
en:(Video) Narrator: We are in the middle of a tremendous clash between the old and the new.MM: The medium does things to peopleand they are always completely unaware of this.They don&#39;t really notice the new medium that is wrapping them up.They think of the old medium,because the old medium is always the content of the new medium,as movies tend to be the content of TV,and as books used to be the content,novels used to be the content of movies.And so every time a new medium arrives,the old medium is the content, and it is highly observable,highly noticeable, but the real, real roughing up and massagingis done by the new medium, and it is ignored.
时间：30:55
zh-cn:教授：我想这是一段很让人沉迷的时光还有更多一些传播和媒体的基因问题放在那里。内容从节目的形式走向了零散的东西他们从前到后都被反复斟酌，变成社交传播的一部分我想这将会是一个很好的复兴的契机电视或者会受到重重的打击它将建立一种真正的令人兴奋的新传播形式我们可以合并两个产业这是一个新的角度看待这个问题
en:PH: I think it&#39;s a great time of enthrallment.There&#39;s been more raw DNA of communications and mediathrown out there. Content is moving from shows to particlesthat are batted back and forth, and part of social communications,and I think this is going to be a time of great renaissance and opportunity.And whereas television may have gotten beat up,what&#39;s getting built is a really exciting new form of communication,and we kind of have the merger of the two industriesand a new way of thinking to look at it.
时间：31:25
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thanks very much.
