时间： 0:11
zh-cn:非常感谢。我将要带大家领略一下鲸和海豚的水下声音世界。由于我们拥有视觉，所以要真正理解这些有点难度。因此我会用图表与声音结合起来说明希望这样能把我想要表达的传达给大家。但让我们也思考一下，作为拥有视觉的物种，当我们浮潜或潜水时，看看水下的世界，它是什么样的？实际上我们看不了多远。我们在空气中工作良好的视觉，突然受到严重的限制、陷入幽闭中。海洋哺乳动物在近数千万年来进化后，它们依赖于声音探索周围的世界并与其他同类保持联系。
en:Thank you so much. I&#39;m going to try to take youon a journey of the underwater acoustic worldof whales and dolphins.Since we are such a visual species,it&#39;s hard for us to really understand this,so I&#39;ll use a mixture of figures and soundsand hope this can communicate it.But let&#39;s also think, as a visual species,what it&#39;s like when we go snorkeling or divingand try to look underwater.We really can&#39;t see very far.Our vision, which works so well in air,all of a sudden is very restricted and claustrophobic.And what marine mammals have evolvedover the last tens of millions of yearsis ways to depend on soundto both explore their worldand also to stay in touch with one another.
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:海豚和齿鲸使用回声定位。他们能产生响亮的喀喇声并倾听海底反射的回声来定位。他们能通过猎物所反射的回声来确定它们的食物在哪里，并决定要吃哪一个。所有海洋哺乳动物用声音来保持相互联系。大型须鲸能发出长且美丽的歌声，这种歌声被雌鲸和雄鲸用于寻求配偶，帮助它们找到同类，并且选择配偶。呼叫的声音也被用于母子之间的联系，或者在联系紧密的动物之间保持联系。因此声音在他们的生活中确实很重要。
en:Dolphins and toothed whales use echolocation.They can produce loud clicksand listen for echoes from the sea floor in order to orient.They can listen for echoes from preyin order to decide where food isand to decide which one they want to eat.All marine mammals use sound for communication to stay in touch.So the large baleen whaleswill produce long, beautiful songs,which are used in reproductive advertisementfor male and females, both to find one anotherand to select a mate.And mother and young and closely bonded animalsuse calls to stay in touch with one another,so sound is really critical for their lives.
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:第一件让我对这些海底动物的声音产生兴趣的事是，—这对我来说是个陌生的世界—从捕获的海豚中发现的证据证明：它们能模仿人类的声音。我说过我会用到一些声音的可视图像。这是第一个例子。这是幅频率对时间的图表—有点像音符，高处的标记表示频率较高，低处的标记表示频率较低，时间朝这个方向流逝。这张图表示的是教练的哨声，这哨声是教练用来告诉海豚做对了并能得到一条鱼。它听起来有点像“tweeeeeet”。有点像这样。这是一只人工饲养的小海豚模仿的教练的哨声。现在如果你对这你的猫猫或狗狗哼这个曲子，而它也对着你哼这曲子，你应该会大吃一惊。很少有除人类之外的哺乳动物能模仿声音。这种能力对我们学习音乐和语言十分重要。
en:The first thing that got me interested in the soundsof these underwater animals,whose world was so foreign to me,was evidence from captive dolphinsthat captive dolphins could imitate human sounds.And I mentioned I&#39;ll usesome visual representations of sounds.Here&#39;s the first example.This is a plot of frequency against time —sort of like musical notation,where the higher notes are up higher and the lower notes are lower,and time goes this way.This is a picture of a trainer&#39;s whistle,a whistle a trainer will blow to tell a dolphinit&#39;s done the right thing and can come get a fish.It sounds sort of like &quot;tweeeeeet.&quot; Like that.This is a calf in captivitymaking an imitationof that trainer&#39;s whistle.If you hummed this tune to your dog or catand it hummed it back to you,you ought to be pretty surprised.Very few nonhuman mammalscan imitate sounds.It&#39;s really important for our music and our language.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:因此这让人迷惑：少有其他哺乳动物能做到这点，为什么它们能做到这点？我职业生涯中花了很多时间试图弄明白这些哺乳动物如何运用它们的学识，运用这一能力：基于所听到的改变所说的。这些都在它们自己的沟通系统中。那么让我们从非人灵长类的叫声开始。比方说，当母亲和幼仔分开时，许多哺乳动物会发出呼唤声。这是个例子：当松鼠猴与其它同类分开时发出的叫声。你能看到，这些叫声中没有多少变化。作为对照，海豚们用于保持联系的哨声，每只海豚都有完全不同的叫声。它们能用这种能力来学习叫声，以便能发展出更复杂、更独特的叫声来识别出不同的个体。
en:So it&#39;s a puzzle: The few other mammal groups that do this,why do they do it?A lot of my career has been devotedto trying to understandhow these animals use their learning,use the ability to change what you saybased on what you hearin their own communication systems.So let&#39;s start with calls of a nonhuman primate.Many mammals have to produce contact callswhen, say, a mother and calf are apart.This is an example of a call produced by squirrel monkeyswhen they&#39;re isolated from another one.And you can see, there&#39;s not muchvariability in these calls.By contrast, the signature whistlewhich dolphins use to stay in touch,each individual here has a radically different call.They can use this ability to learn callsin order to develop more complicated and more distinctive callsto identify individuals.
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:在怎样的环境下动物需要用到这种叫声？好的，让我们看看母亲和幼仔。在海豚妈妈和海豚幼仔平常的生活中，如果海豚妈妈去抓鱼，他们常由于漂移或是游泳而分开。而当它们分开时它们不得不重新聚在一起。这张图显示，它们分开时海豚发出哨声的百分率，与此相对的是最远距离。因此，当海豚们分开少于20米时，少于半数的情况下他们需要用到哨声。多数情况下他们四处游动就能找到对方。但只要它们分开超过100米，它们就需要用这些各自独特的哨声来再次聚在一起。多数这类有独特签名的哨声在海豚的一生中都是定型且非常稳定的。但也有些例外。
en:How about the setting in which animals need to use this call?Well let&#39;s look at mothers and calves.In normal life for mother and calf dolphin,they&#39;ll often drift apart or swim apart if Mom is chasing a fish,and when they separatethey have to get back together again.What this figure shows is the percentage of the separationsin which dolphins whistle,against the maximum distance.So when dolphins are separating by less than 20 meters,less than half the time they need to use whistles.Most of the time they can just find each otherjust by swimming around.But all of the time when they separate by more than 100 meters,they need to use these individually distinctive whistlesto come back together again.Most of these distinctive signature whistlesare quite stereotyped and stablethrough the life of a dolphin.But there are some exceptions.
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:当雄海豚离开海豚妈妈时，它通常会联合另一只雄海豚并形成一个联盟，这一联盟可能会持续几十年之久。由于这两只动物形成了一条社会纽带，他们独特的哨声实际上会进行融合并变得非常相似。这张图显示了这样的组合中的两个成员。正如你在顶部看到的，它们有着同样的升调，像“woop，woop，woop。“它们都有这样的升调。然而另一对的两个成员拥有的升调是”wo-ot, wo-ot, wo-ot“这是由于：他们运用这一学习过程发展出了用于识别这一新社会群体的新信号。这是个非常有趣的方式，它们能为新的社会群体形成一个新的识别标志。
en:When a male dolphin leaves Mom,it will often join up with another maleand form an alliance, which may last for decades.As these two animals form a social bond,their distinctive whistles actually convergeand become very similar.This plot shows two members of a pair.As you can see at the top here,they share an up-sweep, like &quot;woop, woop, woop.&quot;They both have that kind of up-sweep.Whereas these members of a pair go &quot;wo-ot, wo-ot, wo-ot.&quot;And what&#39;s happened isthey&#39;ve used this learning processto develop a new sign that identifies this new social group.It&#39;s a very interesting way that they canform a new identifierfor the new social group that they&#39;ve had.
时间： 4:34
zh-cn:现在让我们后退一步看看这一讯息能告诉我们些什么关于保护海豚远离人类干扰的信息。任何看到这张图片的人都会认识到这只海豚被包围了，显然它的行为被打乱了。这是个糟糕的情况。但事实表明，当今仅有一艘船在数百米开外靠近一群海豚时，这些海豚会开始发出哨声，它们会放弃正在做的事，聚集成更大的群体，等待这艘船驶过，然后它们会回复正常。好了，在一个类似佛罗里达州萨拉索塔的地方，一艘船在百米之内驶过一群海豚的平均间隔时间是六分钟。因此即使在看起来不像这么糟糕的情形下，仍然会在许多时间里对这些动物的正常生活造成影响。
en:Let&#39;s now take a step backand see what this message can tell usabout protecting dolphinsfrom human disturbance.Anybody looking at this picturewill know this dolphin is surrounded,and clearly his behavior is being disrupted.This is a bad situation.But it turns out that when just a single boatis approaching a group of dolphinsat a couple hundred meters away,the dolphins will start whistling,they&#39;ll change what they&#39;re doing, they&#39;ll have a more cohesive group,wait for the boat to go by,and then they&#39;ll get back to normal business.Well, in a place like Sarasota, Florida,the average interval between timesthat a boat is passing within a hundred meters of a dolphin groupis six minutes.So even in the situation that doesn&#39;t look as bad as this,it&#39;s still affecting the amount of time these animals haveto do their normal work.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:让我们看看像澳大利亚西部这样一个非常原始的环境，拉尔斯.比泰尔曾比较了观海豚的游船产生之前和之后，当地海豚的行为和分布。当只有一艘船时，对它们没多少影响。两艘船时，当第二艘船驶来时，有些海豚义无反顾的离开了这一区域。而留下的那些海豚的繁殖率下降了。因此，这可能对整个种群产生负面影响。当我们考虑动物比如海豚建立海洋保护区时，这意味着我们也要非常慎重的考虑那些我们认为无碍的活动。我们也许需要控制休闲航行的密度，甚至观鲸船的密度，以防类似问题发生。同样，我想指出那些没有办法设置防线的因素：声音。你可以画一条线，试图保护一个区域，但是化学污染和噪音污染，将不断进入这一区域。
en:And if we look at a very pristine environment like western Australia,Lars Bider has done workcomparing dolphin behavior and distributionbefore there were dolphin-watching boats.When there was one boat, not much of an impact.And two boats: When the second boat was added,what happened was that some of the dolphinsleft the area completely.Of the ones that stayed, their reproductive rate declined.So it could have a negative impact on the whole population.When we think of marine-protected areas for animals like dolphins,this means that we have to bequite conscious about activities that we thought were benign.We may need to regulate the intensityof recreational boating and actual whale watchingin order to prevent these kinds of problems.I&#39;d also like to point out that sounddoesn&#39;t obey boundaries.So you can draw a line to try to protect an area,but chemical pollution and noise pollutionwill continue to move through the area.
时间： 6:15
zh-cn:现在，我想从这种地方性的、为人熟知的沿海环境转换至须鲸的更广阔的世界和公海。我们经常看到这类地图。世界大部分是蓝色的。但我还想指出的是，海洋之间的联系我们所想象的更加紧密。请注意，相比陆地而言，对海洋间的运动的阻碍非常的少。对我来说，最令人惊讶的海洋间的相互联系的例子来自一个海洋学家所做的声音实验，实验中，海洋学家行驶至南印度洋，放置一个水下扬声器并不断播放一个声音。同一段声音向西能传播至百慕大群岛，向东能传播至蒙特雷—同一段声音。
en:And I&#39;d like to switch now from this local,familiar, coastal environmentto a much broader world of the baleen whales and the open ocean.This is a kind of map we&#39;ve all been looking at.The world is mostly blue.But I&#39;d also like to point out that the oceansare much more connected than we think.Notice how few barriers there are to movementacross all of the oceans compared to land.To me, the most mind-bending exampleof the interconnectedness of the oceancomes from an acoustic experimentwhere oceanographerstook a ship to the southern Indian Ocean,deployed an underwater loudspeakerand played back a sound.That same soundtraveled to the west, and could be heard in Bermuda,and traveled to the east, and could be heard in Monterey —the same sound.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:虽然我们生活在一个卫星通信的世界里，已经习惯了全球间的沟通，但我仍为这感到惊奇。海洋拥有让低频的声音基本上传遍全球的特性。声音通过这些途径中的每一条进行传播所需的时间大约是三小时。这几乎穿越了半个地球。嗨，在70年代早期，一名海洋声学家，罗杰.佩恩曾发表过一篇学术论文，论文中指出声音能够在大范围内传播，但很少有生物学家相信这点。
en:So we live in a world of satellite communication,are used to global communication,but it&#39;s still amazing to me.The ocean has propertiesthat allow low-frequency soundto basically move globally.The acoustic transit time for each of these paths is about three hours.It&#39;s nearly halfway around the globe.In the early &#39;70s,Roger Payne and an ocean acousticianpublished a theoretical paperpointing out that it was possiblethat sound could transmit over these large areas,but very few biologists believed it.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:而实际上，尽管，虽然我们近几十年来才对这种远距离传播有所了解，而鲸显然在数千万年之前就已经进行了进化，进化出了一种方法来运用海洋的这一令人惊奇的特性。蓝鲸和长须鲸产生一种频率非常低的声音，这种声音能传播很长的距离。上面这幅图显示雄鲸所重复的一系列复杂的叫声。这些叫声形成歌声，并且似乎能在繁殖中发挥作用，有点类似鸟类的啼声。下面这幅图，我们看到无论是雄性还是雌性发出的叫声都能传播很远的距离。
en:It actually turns out, though,even though we&#39;ve only known of long-range propagation for a few decades,the whales clearly have evolved,over tens of millions of years,a way to exploit this amazing property of the ocean.So blue whales and fin whalesproduce very low-frequency soundsthat can travel over very long ranges.The top plot here showsa complicated series of callsthat are repeated by males.They form songs, and they appear to play a role in reproduction,sort of like that of song birds.Down below here, we see calls made by both males and femalesthat also carry over very long ranges.
时间： 8:11
zh-cn:生物学家在70年代内持续对远距离沟通的问题保持怀疑，直到冷战结束。在冷战期间，美国海军开发出一套当时处于保密的系统，这套系统能用于探测俄国潜艇。它有一个深水麦克风或者说一个水下测音器，这一水下测音器用线连接至海岸，所有线缆连接至一个中心，在那儿能监听所有穿过整个北大西洋的声音。在柏林墙倒塌之后，海军允许鲸生物声学家使用这些系统来看看他们能听到些什么。
en:The biologists continued to be skepticalof the long-range communication issuewell past the &#39;70s,until the end of the Cold War.What happened was, during the Cold War,the U.S. Navy had a system that was secret at the time,that they used to track Russian submarines.It had deep underwater microphones, or hydrophones,cabled to shore,all wired back to a central place that could listento sounds over the whole North Atlantic.And after the Berlin Wall fell, the Navy made these systems availableto whale bio-acousticiansto see what they could hear.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:这幅图来自克里斯托弗.克拉克，他在一条蓝鲸经过百慕大时对它进行跟踪，它游至迈阿密同一纬度时，开始往回游。它被跟踪了43天，游了1,700公里，或者说超过1,000英里。这告诉我们，这些叫声能在数百英里外被探测出来，这些鲸经常游出数百英里远。它们是海洋大型动物，它们能够以远超人们预期的距离进行沟通。
en:This is a plot from Christopher Clarkwho tracked one individual blue whaleas it passed by Bermuda,went down to the latitude of Miami and came back again.It was tracked for 43 days,swimming 1,700 kilometers,or more than 1,000 miles.This shows us both that the callsare detectable over hundreds of milesand that whales routinely swim hundreds of miles.They&#39;re ocean-based and scale animalswho are communicating over much longer rangesthan we had anticipated.
时间： 9:10
zh-cn:与分布在温带和热带的须鲸和蓝鲸不同，驼背鲸聚集在传统繁殖地。因此它们能发出频率更高些的声音，音域更宽且更复杂。你们现在听到的是座头鲸发出的复杂的歌声。当座头鲸发展出能发出这样的歌声的能力时，它们就能听到来自其他鲸的声音，并且基于它们所听到的来改变音调，就像鸟的啼声或是我描述的海豚的哨声。这表示座头鲸的歌声是动物文化的一种形式，就像音乐对于人类。
en:Unlike fins and blues, whichdisperse into the temperate and tropical oceans,the humpbacked whales congregatein local traditional breeding grounds,so they can make a sound that&#39;s a little higher in frequency,broader-band and more complicated.So you&#39;re listening to the complicated songproduced by humpbacks here.Humpbacks, when they developthe ability to sing this song,they&#39;re listening to other whalesand modifying what they sing based on what they&#39;re hearing,just like song birds or the dolphin whistles I described.This means that humpback songis a form of animal culture,just like music for humans would be.
时间： 9:46
zh-cn:我认为关于这些最有趣的例子来自澳大利亚。生物学家在澳大利亚东海岸录下了那一区域的座头鲸的歌声。这条橘色的线标出了东海岸座头鲸的典型的歌声。在95年它们都唱出正常的歌声。但在96年，生物学家听到了少数奇怪的歌声。后来发现这些奇怪的歌声是典型的西海岸鲸的歌声。西海岸的叫声变得越来越常见，直到1998年，再没有鲸发出东海岸的歌声；它完全消失了。它们都在唱着新的西海岸的酷歌。这仿佛是一种新的风格完全取代了之前旧的时尚风格，而且没有金曲再现这一环节。没人再唱这些老歌。
en:I think one of the most interesting examples of thiscomes from Australia.Biologists on the east coast of Australiawere recording the songs of humpbacks in that area.And this orange line here marks the typical songsof east coast humpbacks.In &#39;95 they all sang the normal song.But in &#39;96 they heard a few weird songs,and it turned out that these strange songswere typical of west coast whales.The west coast calls became more and more popular,until by 1998,none of the whales sang the east coast song; it was completely gone.They just sang the cool new west coast song.It&#39;s as if some new hit stylehad completely wiped outthe old-fashioned style before,and with no golden oldies stations.Nobody sang the old ones.
时间：10:31
zh-cn:我想简要的展示一下海洋中的这些叫声。现在大家听到的是由克里斯.克拉克，在距离座头鲸0.2英里远处录制的声音。你能听到整个频率范围内的声音。非常响亮。听起来就像在附近。下一段大家将听到的录音是由同一头座头鲸在50英里外发出的。下面显示的这个。只能听到低频的声音。能听到声音在海洋中长距离传播产生的回声它听起来并不响亮。在我播放了这些座头鲸的叫声之后，我要播放一些蓝鲸的叫声，但我不得不加快这些声音，因为它们的频率太低了，否则大家就听不到它们了。这是50英里外一头蓝鲸的叫声，比那头座头鲸更远。它响亮且清晰—你能非常清楚的听到它。这是由水下测音器在500英里外录制的同一叫声。因为有许多其他鲸，听起来有许多噪音。但你仍能听到这微弱的叫声。
en:I&#39;d like to briefly just show what the ocean does to these calls.Now you are listening to a recording made by Chris Clark,0.2 miles away from a humpback.You can hear the full frequency range. It&#39;s quite loud.You sound very nearby.The next recording you&#39;re going to hearwas made of the same humpback song50 miles away.That&#39;s shown down here.You only hear the low frequencies.You hear the reverberationas the sound travels over long-range in the oceanand is not quite as loud.Now after I play back these humpback calls,I&#39;ll play blue whale calls, but they have to be sped upbecause they&#39;re so low in frequencythat you wouldn&#39;t be able to hear it otherwise.Here&#39;s a blue whale call at 50 miles,which was distant for the humpback.It&#39;s loud, clear — you can hear it very clearly.Here&#39;s the same call recorded from a hydrophone500 miles away.There&#39;s a lot of noise, which is mostly other whales.But you can still hear that faint call.
时间：11:30
zh-cn:现在让我们切换下思路，考虑一下潜在的人类影响。多数人类在海洋中产生的声音来自船只。这是一艘船的声音，为了盖过它我不得不更大声的说话。想象一下鲸在500英里远处倾听。可能由这类船只造成的这一潜在问题将会阻止鲸们听到彼此。这是已经了解了相当长一段时间的事情。
en:Let&#39;s now switch and think abouta potential for human impacts.The most dominant sound that humans put into the oceancomes from shipping.This is the sound of a ship,and I&#39;m having to talk a little louder to talk over it.Imagine that whale listening from 500 miles.There&#39;s a potential problem that maybethis kind of shipping noise would prevent whalesfrom being able to hear each other.Now this is something that&#39;s been known for quite a while.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:这是张来自课本的关于水下声音的图。Y轴是深海中以频率表示的环境噪音的平均音量。在低频时，这条线表明来自地球地震活动的声音。上面这些线表明在这一频率范围内由风浪增加的噪音。但在正中间有一个平衡点，噪音主要来自人类的船只。现在考虑一下。这是个奇妙的事情。就在鲸们用来交流的这个频率范围内，在我们的星球上，全球主要的噪音来自人类的船只，数以千计的远处的人类船只产生的噪音汇聚起来。
en:This is a figure from a textbook on underwater sound.And on the y-axisis the loudness of average ambient noise in the deep oceanby frequency.In the low frequencies, this line indicatessound that comes from seismic activity of the earth.Up high, these variable linesindicate increasing noise in this frequency rangefrom higher wind and wave.But right in the middle here where there&#39;s a sweet spot,the noise is dominated by human ships.Now think about it. This is an amazing thing:That in this frequency range where whales communicate,the main source globally, on our planet, for the noisecomes from human ships,thousands of human ships, distant, far away,just all aggregating.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:下一张幻灯片显示这可能对鲸用于沟通的频率范围的影响。这儿是鲸的叫声的音量。当我们里的更远时声音越来越微弱。在工业化前的海洋中，正如我们提到的，鲸的叫声很容易被监听到。在一千公里范围内叫声比噪音要大。现在，考虑到来自船只的不断增加的噪音。沟通的有效距离突然从一千公里降至十公里。如果这些信号是用于雌性和雄性为交配而相互寻找的话，他们被分割开了，想象一下这可能对濒危种群的恢复造成的影响。
en:The next slide will show what the impact this may haveon the range at which whales can communicate.So here we have the loudness of a call at the whale.And as we get farther away,the sound gets fainter and fainter.Now in the pre-industrial ocean, as we were mentioning,this whale call could be easily detected.It&#39;s louder than noiseat a range of a thousand kilometers.Let&#39;s now take that additional increase in noisethat we saw comes from shipping.All of a sudden, the effective range of communicationgoes from a thousand kilometers to 10 kilometers.Now if this signal is used for males and femalesto find each other for mating and they&#39;re dispersed,imagine the impact this could haveon the recovery of endangered populations.
时间：13:18
zh-cn:我们也有我所描述过的海豚用于相互联系叫声。我将播放一段露脊鲸用于保持联系的叫声。这是当露脊鲸母鲸与幼仔分离后，当它们想再次重聚时用于相互呼唤的叫声。现在想象一下，如果在其中加入船只的噪音。如果船只从旁经过，而它的幼仔并不在身旁，母鲸应该做什么的？我将描述几种对策。
en:Whales also have contact callslike I described for the dolphins.I&#39;ll play the sound of a contact call usedby right whales to stay in touch.And this is the kind of call that is used by,say, right whale mothers and calvesas they separate to come back again.Now imagine — let&#39;s put the ship noise in the picture.What&#39;s a mother to doif the ship comes by and her calf isn&#39;t there?I&#39;ll describe a couple strategies.
时间：13:42
zh-cn:一个对策是，如果你的叫声在下面这个位置，而噪音在这个波段内，你可以改变叫声的频率，摆脱噪音的波段，以更好的沟通。宾夕法尼亚州立大学的苏珊.帕克斯做了相关研究。她把注意力集中在大西洋。这儿是来自南大西洋的数据。这是自70年以来典型的南大西洋联系叫声。看看到2000年时平均叫声发生了什么变化。北大西洋中，对比50年代至2000年数据，也发生了同样的变化。在过去50年中，随着我们带入海洋的噪音越来越多，这些鲸不得不进行变化。这就好像，整个种群不得不从弹奏贝司变成像男高音那样唱歌。这是个令人惊奇的、由人类导致的变化，这一变化无论在时间上还是空间上都有很大的跨度。
en:One strategy is if your call&#39;s down here,and the noise is in this band,you could shift the frequency of your call out of the noise bandand communicate better.Susan Parks of Penn State has actually studied this.She&#39;s looked in the Atlantic. Here&#39;s data from the South Atlantic.Here&#39;s a typical South Atlantic contact call from the &#39;70s.Look what happened by 2000 to the average call.Same thing in the North Atlantic,in the &#39;50s versus 2000.Over the last 50 years,as we&#39;ve put more noise into the oceans,these whales have had to shift.It&#39;s as if the whole population had to shiftfrom being basses to singing as a tenor.It&#39;s an amazing shift, induced by humansover this large scale,in both time and space.
时间：14:24
zh-cn:现在我们知道，鲸能够弥补噪音的影响，通过发出更大的叫声，如我刚才在播放船只的声音时所做的，通过等待寂静的到来，和通过改变他们的叫声来摆脱噪音干扰。对于发出更大的叫声或者是改变原有叫声的频率可能需要付出些代价。它们可能会错失良机。如果不得不等待寂静到来，它们也许会错过交流的重要机会。因此我们要非常关注，当栖息地内的噪音对栖息地的分隔足以让动物们不得不付出更多才能沟通或是它们无法进行某些关键功能。这是个非常重要的问题。
en:And we now know that whales can compensate for noiseby calling louder, like I did when that ship was playing,by waiting for silenceand by shifting their call out of the noise band.Now there&#39;s probably costs to calling louderor shifting the frequency away from where you want to be,and there&#39;s probably lost opportunities.If we also have to wait for silence,they may miss a critical opportunity to communicate.So we have to be very concernedabout when the noise in habitatsdegrades the habitat enoughthat the animals either have to pay too much to be able to communicate,or are not able to perform critical functions.It&#39;s a really important problem.
时间：14:59
zh-cn:我可以很高兴的说，在这一领域中有些非常有希望的进展，看看船只对鲸的影响。就船只噪音而言，联合国国际海事组织成立了一个组织来建立船只静音指南，以此告诉工业界如何让船只静音。并且他们已经发现，通过更智能的、更好的螺旋桨设计就能减少百分之九十的噪音。如果确实地把船壳和船只的机械装置隔离和分割开，就能够减少百分之九十九的噪音。因此，在这一点上，这是主要是一个成本和标准的问题。如果这一组织能建立标准，并且造船业采用这些标准来建造船只，现在，我们能看到这一潜在的问题会逐步的下降。
en:And I&#39;m happy to say that there are severalvery promising developments in this area,looking at the impact of shipping on whales.In terms of the shipping noise,the International Maritime Organization of the United Nationshas formed a group whose job is to establishguidelines for quieting ships,to tell the industry how you could quiet ships.And they&#39;ve already foundthat by being more intelligent about better propeller design,you can reduce that noise by 90 percent.If you actually insulate and isolatethe machinery of the ship from the hull,you can reduce that noise by 99 percent.So at this point, it&#39;s primarily an issue of cost and standards.If this group can establish standards,and if the shipbuilding industry adopts them for building new ships,we can now see a gradual declinein this potential problem.
时间：15:47
zh-cn:但船只还会造成另一个问题，看看这幅图，碰撞的问题。这只鲸勉强躲过了一艘快速通过的集装箱船，避免了碰撞。但碰撞是个严重的问题。每年都有濒危的鲸由于船只的碰撞而死亡。尝试减少这种情况发生非常重要。我将讨论一下两个非常有希望的方法。第一个方法来自芬迪湾。这些黑线标明了船只进出芬迪湾的航线。彩色的区域表示由于船只在这航道上航行产生的与濒危露脊鲸发生碰撞的风险。原来这条航线正好穿过夏天露脊鲸的一个主要繁殖区域。这就使得这区域有很大的碰撞风险。好的，从不说不的生物学家们到国际海事组织请愿道，“能移动一下那条航线么？这只是些地面上的线条而已。能把它们移到其他风险更小的地方去么？“而国际海事组织的反应非常有力，”这些是新航线。“航线已经移动过了。如你所见，碰撞的风险小了很多。
en:But there&#39;s also another problem from ships that I&#39;m illustrating here,and that&#39;s the problem of collision.This is a whale that just squeaked bya rapidly moving container ship and avoided collision.But collision is a serious problem.Endangered whales are killed every year by ship collision,and it&#39;s very important to try to reduce this.I&#39;ll discuss two very promising approaches.The first case comes from the Bay of Fundy.These black lines mark shipping lanesin and out of the Bay of Fundy.The colorized areashows the risk of collision for endangered right whalesbecause of the ships moving in this lane.It turns out that this lane heregoes right through a major feeding area of right whales in the summer time,and it makes an area of a significant risk of collision.Well, biologistswho couldn&#39;t take no for an answerwent to the International Maritime Organizationand petitioned them to say,&quot;Can&#39;t you move that lane? Those are just lines on the ground.Can&#39;t you move them over to a placewhere there&#39;s less of a risk?&quot;And the International Maritime Organization responded very strongly,&quot;These are the new lanes.&quot;The shipping lanes have been moved.And as you can see, the risk of collision is much lower.
时间：16:54
zh-cn:因而这一方法实际上非常有希望。我们能非常有创造性的考虑减少这些风险的不同方式。另一个方法已经由一家船运公司独自执行了，这一方法的启动涉及船运公司导致全球变暖的温室气体的排放。马士基航运公司审视他们的竞争者，看到船运业中所有人都认为：时间就是金钱。他们尽其可能的快速到达港口。而接着常常在港口等着。马士基航运公司所做的是：放慢速度。他们会把速度下降一半。这降低了百分之三十的燃油消耗，节省了费用，而同时，这对鲸也有很大的好处。如果放慢速度，会减少所产生的噪音并降低发生碰撞的风险。
en:So it&#39;s very promising, actually.We can be very creative about thinkingof different ways to reduce these risks.Another action which was just taken independentlyby a shipping company itselfwas initiated because of concerns the shipping company hadabout greenhouse gas emissions with global warming.The Maersk Line looked at their competitionand saw that everybody who is in shipping thinks time is money.They rush as fast as they can to get to their port.But then they often wait there.What Maersk did is they worked ways to slow down.They could slow down by about 50 percent.This reduced their fuel consumption by about 30 percent,which saved them money,and at the same time, it had a significant benefit for whales.It you slow down, you reduce the amount of noise you makeand you reduce the risk of collision.
时间：17:39
zh-cn:因此，总结一下，我想指出，你知道，鲸生活在令人惊异的声音环境中。它们进化了超过数千万年来利用环境。我们要非常小心谨慎的考虑我们所做的可能无意中对它们的重要活动造成阻碍的事。同时，我们需要真正的创新思考，关于如何才能帮助减少这些问题的解决方案的创新思考。我希望这些例子展示了除了设立保护区外还有一些不同的方向。通过运用这些办法能够维护一个让鲸能继续沟通的安全的海洋。
en:So to conclude, I&#39;d just like to point out,you know, the whales live inan amazing acoustic environment.They&#39;ve evolved over tens of millions of yearsto take advantage of this.And we need to be very attentive and vigilantto thinking about where things that we domay unintentionally prevent themfrom being able to achieve their important activities.At the same time, we need to be really creativein thinking of solutions to be able to help reduce these problems.I hope these examples have shownsome of the different directions we can takein addition to protected areasto be able to keep the ocean safe for whales to be able to continue to communicate.
时间：18:13
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：18:15
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
