时间： 0:13
zh-cn:这个声音，这股味道，这种情景，都让我想起了小时候的营火会，当任何人都可以在摇曳的火光前说上个故事。那时有种奇妙的结尾，就是当人群和火光基本上在同一时间睡着，进入梦乡。
en:This sound,this smell,this sightall remind me of the campfires of my childhood,when anyone could become a storyteller in front of the dancing flames.There was this wondrous endingwhen people and fire fell asleep almost in unison.It was dreaming time.
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:我的故事也基本上是有关梦境的，但是让梦成真是我很出名的一个特色。去年，我搞了一场个人表演。在一个半小时里，我与观众分享了一生的创造力—我如何追求完美，如何征服不可能的事。
en:Now my story has a lot to do with dreaming,although I&#39;m known to make my dreams come true.Last year, I created a one-man show.For an hour and a half I shared with the audiencea lifetime of creativity,how I pursue perfection, how I cheat the impossible.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:然后TED便向我发出了挑战：“菲利普，你能把这一生缩到18分钟来概括吗？”（笑声）十八分钟，很明显不可能。但是我现在在这儿。一个解决方案就是练习一场机枪式的演讲，使每个音节，每一秒钟都充分利用然后向上帝祈求我的听众们能跟得上。不，不，不。不！对我来说最好的开始方法就是尊重创造力的神。所以请跟我一起肃静一分钟。
en:And then TED challenged me:&quot;Philippe, can you shrink this lifetime to 18 minutes?&quot;(Laughter)Eighteen minutes, clearly impossible.But here I am.One solution was to rehearse a machine gun deliveryin which every syllable, every second will have its importanceand hope to God the audience will be able to follow me.No, no, no.No, the best way for me to startis to pay my respects to the gods of creativity.So please join me for a minute of silence.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:好吧，我其实作弊了，刚刚只有20秒。但是我们在用宝贵的TED的时间。
en:Okay, I cheated, it was a mere 20 seconds.But hey, we&#39;re on TED time.
时间： 2:01
zh-cn:当我六岁时，我爱上了魔术。我收到了一个魔术盒作为圣诞礼物，还有一本有关如何摆弄纸牌的，很旧的书。不知何故，我对如何摆弄和操作的兴趣甚至高过了对那些魔术盒里小儿科内容的兴趣。所以我在书中找到了最难的戏法，就是这个。
en:When I was six years old,I fell in love with magic.For Christmas I got a magic boxand a very old book on card manipulation.Somehow I was more interested in pure manipulationthan in all the silly little tricks in the box.So I looked in the book for the most difficult move,and it was this.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:虽然，现在我不应该跟你们分享这个戏法的。但是我还是要展示一下，那张牌就在我的手背后。这个操作手法可以被分为七个步骤，用了七页纸来描写。一，二，三，四，五，六，七。让我再给你们看样东西。那时候，纸牌比我的手都大。
en:Now I&#39;m not supposed to share that with you,but I have to show you the card is hidden in the back of the hand.Now that manipulationwas broken down into seven movesdescribed over seven pages.One, two, three,four, five, six and seven.And let me show you something else.The cards were bigger than my hands.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:两个月后，我六岁时，我做到了一，二，三，四，五，六，七。然后我去见了一个很有名的魔术师。我很自豪的问他：“你认为我的魔术怎样？”（我那时）六岁。那个魔术师看着我说：“真是太烂了。”“你不能用两秒来完成它，“然后还有一小部分纸牌漏在外面。“如果想让这个动作专业些，一定要在不到一秒完成，“而且必须完美。”两年以后，一 - 没了。我可没作弊啊。它就在背面。而且动作完美。
en:Two months later, six years old,I&#39;m able to do one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.And I go to see a famous magicianand proudly ask him, &quot;Well what do you think?&quot;Six years old.The magician looked at me and said, &quot;This is a disaster.You cannot do that in two secondsand have a minuscule part of the card showing.For the move to be professional, it has to be less than one secondand it has to be perfect.&quot;Two years later, one — zoop.And I&#39;m not cheating. It&#39;s in the back. It&#39;s perfect.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:激情是我的座右铭，激励了我所有的行动。当我在学习魔术时，杂耍是常常被提到的，作为一种获得灵巧和协调的手法的方法。我一直很欣赏杂耍家能迅速和流畅地让物体飞舞。所以就它了。我14岁；我要做个杂耍家。
en:Passion is the mottoof all my actions.As I&#39;m studying magic,juggling is mentioned repeatedlyas a great way to acquire dexterity and coordination.Now I had long admired how fast and fluidlyjugglers make objects fly.So that&#39;s it. I&#39;m 14; I&#39;m becoming a juggler.
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:我交了个在马戏团里会杂耍的朋友，他答应了卖给我三根杂耍棒子。但是在美国你总要解释一下。什么是杂耍棒子？不是和高尔夫球有关的那个（俱乐部）。它们是那些很美的，椭圆形的物体，但是制作起来挺复杂的。它们必须经过精确地车制。喔，当我在买杂耍棒子的时候，不知为何，那个年轻的杂耍家躲着不让别人看见。当然，那时的我并没多想。
en:I befriend a young juggler in a juggling troupe,and he agrees to sell me three clubs.But in America you have to explain. What are clubs?Nothing to do with golf.They are those beautiful oblong objects,but quite difficult to make.They have to be precisely lathed.Oh, when I was buying the clubs,somehow the young juggler was hiding from the others.Well I didn&#39;t think much of it at the time.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:总之，我练的杂耍一点点进步着。但是我不能理解。我已经挺快的了，但是我却不流利。每次仍棒子时，它们都逃出我的手掌。而我又一直试着让它们重新回来。直到有一天，我在弗朗西斯·布伦，世上最棒的杂耍家，面前练习。他皱着眉头。然后终于问了我：“能给我看看这些吗？”我很自豪的给他看了我的杂耍棒子。他说：“菲利普，你被骗了。“这些是废品。它们没有被校准。“它们是无法用来杂耍的。”韧性是我坚持下来的关键，不管有多困难。
en:Anyway, here I was progressing with my new clubs.But I could not understand.I was pretty fast, but I was not fluid at all.The clubs were escaping me at each throw.And I was trying constantly to bring them back to me.Until one day I practiced in front of Francis Brunn,the world&#39;s greatest juggler.And he was frowning.And he finally asked, &quot;Can I see those?&quot;So I proudly showed him my clubs.He said, &quot;Philippe, you have been had.These are rejects. They are completely out of alignment.They are impossible to juggle.&quot;Tenacity is how I kept at itagainst all odds.
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:所以我去了趟马戏团去看更多的魔术、戏法家，然后我看到了 — 哦，不，不，不，不是看到。比那更有意思；我听到了。我听到了有关这些了不起的人们，这些在空气上走路的人们：走钢丝者。那时我已经玩了一整个童年的绳子和攀登，所以就它了。我16岁；我要做个走钢丝者。
en:So I went to the circus to see more magicians, more jugglers,and I saw — oh no, no, no, I didn&#39;t see.It was more interesting; I heard.I heard about those amazing men and womenwho walk on thin air —the high-wire walkers.Now I have been playing with ropes and climbing all my childhood,so that&#39;s it. I&#39;m 16; I&#39;m becoming a wire walker.
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:我找到了两棵树 —不是任何一种树，而是很有特色的树 —和一根很长的绳子。我把绳子一圈又一圈一圈又一圈的绕了起来，直到我没有绳子。这时，我有了很多像这样平行的绳子。我找到了一把钳子和一些衣架，然后把它们用在一起，制作了一条用绳子构成的路。就这样，我制造了世上最宽的绳索。我还需要什么？我需要世上最宽的鞋子。我找来了一双巨大的、荒谬可笑的大雪靴，然后一摇一摆地，我就走上了这些绳索。
en:I found two trees —but not any kind of trees,trees with character —and then a very long rope.And I put the rope around and aroundand around and around and around till I had no more rope.Now I have all of those ropes parallel like this.I get a pair of pliers and some coat hangers,and I gather them together in some kind of ropey path.So I just created the widest tightrope in the world.What did I need? I needed the widest shoes in the world.So I found some enormous, ridiculous, giant ski bootsand then wobbly, wobbly I get on the ropes.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:就在几天内，我就能走完整的一回了。所以我就剪去了一根绳子。第二天，又剪去一根。几天后，我已经只用一根绳索练习了。现在你可以想象一下，那时我已经需要把那双搞笑的大鞋换成别的拖鞋了。这就是如何 — 如果观众中有人感兴趣试一试 —如何去学习走钢丝的反面教材。
en:Well within a few days I&#39;m able to do one crossing.So I cut one rope off.And the next day one rope off.And a few days later, I was practicing on a single tightrope.Now you can imagine at that timeI had to switch the ridiculous boots for some slippers.So that is how — in case there are people here in the audience who would like to try —this is how not to learn wire walking.
时间： 7:03
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:05
zh-cn:直觉是我人生中很重要的一个工具。那时，我被五所不同的学校撵了出来，因为在该听老师的时候，我是我自己的老师，我的新艺术在进展着 —我逐渐成为街头杂耍家。
en:Intuition is a tool essential in my life.In the meantime, I am being thrown out of five different schoolsbecause instead of listening to the teachers,I am my own teacher, progressing in my new artand becoming a street juggler.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:在钢丝上，不到几个月内，我就精通了所有的马戏团的杂耍，但我还是不满意。
en:On the high wire, within months,I&#39;m able to master all the tricks they do in the circus,except I am not satisfied.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:我开始创作自己的动作，然后把它们练得毫无瑕疵。但是没人想要雇我。所以我就暗中架起了绳索，然后开始在没有允许的情况下表演。圣母院，悉尼海港大桥，世界贸易中心。我开始有了个把握，信念，说服这我肯定可以安全到达另一边。如果不这样，我绝不会迈出第一步。
en:I was starting to invent my own moves and bring them to perfection.But nobody wanted to hire me.So I started putting a wire up in secret and performing without permission.Notre Dame,the Sydney Harbor Bridge,the World Trade Center.And I developed a certitude, a faiththat convinced me that I will get safely to the other side.If not, I will never do that first step.
时间： 8:11
zh-cn:但不管怎样，在世界贸易中心的顶端，我的第一步还是很吓人的。突然，空气密度就跟平常不一样了。曼哈顿突然不再扩散着它的无穷大。城市的私语变成了尖叫声不再让我感到寒冷凌厉的暴风。我抬起了平衡杆。我走近边缘。我跨过横梁。我把左脚放到了绳索上，全身的重量压在了右腿上，牢牢地固定在建筑物的侧面。我要把哪怕一点点重量转移到左腿上吗？我会解放我的右腿的，我的右脚会自由的触碰到绳索。一边是一片山群，我熟悉的生命。另一边是云做的宇宙，充满未知以至于我们认为它是空洞的。在我脚下，一条通往北边高楼的 — 60码长的钢丝。它是一条直线，有些下垂，会摇晃，会抖动，甚至自己会转，它是冰，它三吨紧，快要爆炸似的，快要把我吞没。我的内心在嚎，有种野性想要逃跑。但是已经晚了。钢丝已经被准备好了。我另一只脚很果断地踏上了绳索。
en:Well nonetheless,on the top of the World Trade Centermy first step was terrifying.All of a sudden the density of the air is no longer the same.Manhattan no longer spreads its infinity.The murmur of the city dissolves into a squallwhose chilling power I no longer feel.I lift the balancing pole. I approach the edge.I step over the beam.I put my left foot on the cable,the weight of my body raised on my right leganchored to the flank of the building.Shall I ever so slightly shift my weight to the left?My right leg will be unburdened,my right foot will freely meet the wire.On one side, a mass of a mountain, a life I know.On the other, the universe of the clouds,so full of unknown we think it&#39;s empty.At my feet, the path to the north tower — 60 yards of wire rope.It&#39;s a straight line, which sags,which sways, which vibrates,which rolls on itself,which is ice,which is three tons tight, ready to explode,ready to swallow me.An inner howl assails me,the wild longing to flee.But it is too late.The wire is ready.Decisively my other foot sets itself onto the cable.
时间：10:00
zh-cn:信念代替了怀疑在我的字典中。
en:Faith is what replaces doubtin my dictionary.
时间：10:07
zh-cn:在那次走过之后，有人问我：“你怎样在那么高的地方走钢丝的？”当然，我那时没这个问题。我对收集最大的或最棒的，对破纪录之类的毫无兴趣。事实上，我把我的世界贸易中心之行和我别的一些小型的走钢丝 —或是完全不同的表演，归类为同一个艺术水平。让我想想，比如说我的街头杂耍。
en:So after the walkpeople ask me, &quot;How can you top that?&quot;Well I didn&#39;t have that problem.I was not interested in collecting the gigantic,in breaking records.In fact, I put my World Trade Center crossingat the same artistic level as some of my smaller walks —or some completely different type of performance.Let&#39;s see, such as my street juggling, for example.
时间：10:36
zh-cn:每一次我在便道上用粉笔画上我的圆圈然后进去开始即兴无声的滑稽表演我在45年前创作的，我会和在云中行走一样高兴。
en:So each timeI draw my circle of chalk on the pavementand enter as the improvising comic silent characterI created 45 years ago,I am as happy as when I am in the clouds.
时间：10:53
zh-cn:但是我在这，这不是大街上。所以我不能在这表演杂耍，你明白的。所以你不想看我在这表演街头杂耍，对吧？你明白的，对吧？你不想让我表演杂耍，对吧？
en:But this here,this is not the street.So I cannot street juggle here, you understand.So you don&#39;t want me to street juggle here, right?You know that, right?You don&#39;t want me to juggle, right?
时间：11:06
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:14
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：13:06
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：13:11
zh-cn:谢谢。谢谢。
en:Thank you. Thank you.
时间：13:25
zh-cn:每次我表演街头杂耍我都会即兴表演。即兴表演非常给人优越感因为它接受那些未知的。又由于那些不可能的从来都来自未知，它会让我相信我可以战胜不可能。
en:Each time I street juggleI use improvisation.Now improvisation is empoweringbecause it welcomes the unknown.And since what&#39;s impossible is always unknown,it allows me to believe I can cheat the impossible.
时间：13:57
zh-cn:我不止一次地完成了不可能的事，应该是很多次。那么我应该分享些什么呢？哦，我知道了。以色列。
en:Now I have done the impossible not once,but many times.So what should I share? Oh, I know. Israel.
时间：14:04
zh-cn:几年前我被邀请去为以色列的节日表演走钢丝来开场。我选择了把绳索架在阿拉伯区域和耶路撒冷犹太区域之间跨过奔欣嫩谷。我想那一定会很棒，如果在钢丝的中间我停下来，像个魔术师一般，变出一只白鸽让它飞向天空，作为一个象征和平的生命
en:Some years ago I was invited to open the Israel Festivalby a high-wire walk.And I chose to put my wirebetween the Arab quarters and the Jewish quarter of Jerusalemover the Ben Hinnom Valley.And I thought it would be incredibleif in the middle of the wireI stopped and, like a magician,I produce a dove and send her in the skyas a living symbol of peace.
时间：14:31
zh-cn:当然，我必须说，要在以色列找到白鸽还是有些困难的，但我还是得到了一只。在我酒店的房间里，每次我练习变出它然后让它飞翔时，它总会蹭到墙最后跌到床上。我就说，没关系。只是房间太小了。我的意思是，鸟儿需要空间才能飞翔。到了表演那一天一切都会顺利的。
en:Well now I must say,it was a little bit hard to find a dove in Israel, but I got one.And in my hotel room,each time I practiced making it appear and throwing her in the air,she would graze the wall and end up on the bed.So I said, now it&#39;s okay. The room is too small.I mean, a bird needs space to fly.It will go perfectly on the day of the walk.
时间：14:54
zh-cn:很快就到了那一天。八万人遍布了整个山谷。耶路撒冷的市长，泰迪·科利克，来向我祝愿一切顺利。但他像是很紧张。我的钢丝上有被拉紧的力度，但我都在平地上都能感触到那份紧张的气氛。因为这些人大多都视彼此为敌人。
en:Now comes the day of the walk.Eighty thousand people spread over the entire valley.The mayor of Jerusalem, Teddy Kollek, comes to wish me the best.But he seemed nervous.There was tension in my wire,but I also could feel tension on the ground.Because all those peoplewere made up of people who, for the most part,considered each other enemies.
时间：15:20
zh-cn:我开始了表演。一切都安然无恙。我在中间停了下来。我变出了鸽子。人们在喜悦中欢呼。然后在最壮丽的手势下，我放飞了那鸟儿飞向蓝天。但那只鸟，却没有飞向远方，而是拍打了两下翅膀，落在了我的头上。（笑声）人们尖叫了。我抓住了白鸽，第二次放飞它到空中。但是那鸽子，明显的没上过飞行学校，拍打了两下翅膀，落在了我的平衡杆上。
en:So I start the walk. Everything is fine.I stop in the middle.I make the dove appear.People applaud in delight.And then in the most magnificent gesture,I send the bird of peace into the azure.But the bird, instead of flying away,goes flop, flop, flop and lands on my head.(Laughter)And people scream.So I grab the dove,and for the second time I send her in the air.But the dove, who obviously didn&#39;t go to flying school,goes flop, flop, flop and ends up at the end of my balancing pole.
时间：15:59
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：16:00
zh-cn:你们笑，你们笑。但是！我马上坐了下来。这是走钢丝者条件反射的作法。在这时，观众人群们都沸腾了。他们肯定想，这个有鸽子的人，一定花了很多年和这只鸽子合作。多么天才，多么专业啊。
en:You laugh, you laugh. But hey.I sit down immediately. It&#39;s a reflex of wire walkers.Now in the meantime, the audience, they go crazy.They must think this guy with this dove,he must have spent years working with him.What a genius, what a professional.
时间：16:15
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：16:17
zh-cn:我鞠了个躬。挥了挥手。最后我使劲地用手拍了下平衡杆好让鸽子飞起来。可是那鸽子，你们也知道，明显不能飞，第三次的拍打翅膀然后降落在了我身后的钢丝上。整个山谷疯狂了起来。
en:So I take a bow. I salute with my hand.And at the end I bang my hand against the poleto dislodge the bird.Now the dove, who, now you know, obviously cannot fly,does for the third time a little flop, flop, flopand ends up on the wire behind me.And the entire valley goes crazy.
时间：16:35
zh-cn:但先等等，我还没讲完呢。现在，我还有50码才到达终点我已经很累了，所以每一步都很慢。突然发生了什么。一些地方的一群人，开始跟着我脚步的节奏拍手。几秒之内整个山谷都开始跟着我的脚步齐齐地拍手。但不是像先前那样喜悦的掌声，而是鼓励的掌声。一瞬间，整个人群忘记了他们的不同。他们合成了一个，推着我迎向胜利。
en:Now but hold on, I&#39;m not finished.So now I&#39;m like 50 yards from my arrivaland I&#39;m exhausted, so my steps are slow.And something happened.Somebody somewhere, a group of people,starts clapping in rhythm with my steps.And within seconds the entire valleyis applauding in unison with each of my steps.But not an applause of delight like before,an applause encouragement.For a moment, the entire crowd had forgotten their differences.They had become one, pushing me to triumph.
时间：17:10
zh-cn:我想让你也在这几秒中里，感受一下这了不起的人奏交响乐。想象一下我在这儿，那椅子是我的终点。我走着，你们拍手，所有人一起。
en:I want you just for a secondto experience this amazing human symphony.So let&#39;s say I am here and the chair is my arrival.So I walk, you clap, everybody in unison.
时间：17:23
zh-cn:（拍手声）
en:(Clapping)
时间：17:29
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:36
zh-cn:在那次钢丝表演后，泰迪和我成为了朋友。他告诉我，在他桌上有张我的照片在钢丝中间的位置，一只白鸽在我头上。他并不知道真实的故事。每当当遇到不可能解决的难题，在这个很难管理的城市时，他不会放弃，而他会看着照片说：“如果菲利普能做到，那么我也做到。”然后他就会回去工作。
en:So after the walk, Teddy and I become friends.And he tells me, he has on his desk a picture of mein the middle of the wire with a dove on my head.He didn&#39;t know the true story.And whenever he&#39;s daunted by an impossible situationto solve in this hard-to-manage city,instead of giving up, he looks at the picture and he says,&quot;If Philippe can do that, I can do this,&quot;and he goes back to work.
时间：18:01
zh-cn:启发。当我们启发自己时，我们也振奋了别人。我绝不会忘了这样的音乐，希望你也不会忘记。请把这音乐的记忆带回家，然后往你的胳膊上黏上些羽毛，尽情的飞翔，用另一种视角看世界吧。当你看到山的时候，记住就算是山也可以被移动。
en:Inspiration.By inspiring ourselveswe inspire others.I will never forget this music,and I hope now neither will you.Please take this music with you home,and start gluing feathers to your armsand take off and fly,and look at the world from a different perspective.And when you see mountains,remember mountains can be moved.
时间：18:39
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：18:47
zh-cn:谢谢。谢谢。谢谢。
en:Thank you. Thank you.Thank you.
时间：18:54
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
