时间： 0:11
zh-cn:几年前从麻省理工大学传出这样一种说法。一位名叫肯•霍尔的语言学家称，当今全世界人说的6000种语言中，有3000种并不被儿童使用。也就是说在下一代中，我们的文化多样性将会减半。这位语言学家继续称，每两周内，便有会说一种语言的最后一位老人离开人世。自然界经过几个世纪辛苦收集来的所有知识以及哲学理念正在逐步消失，而且每两个星期就会发生这样的事。
en:A factcame out of MIT,couple of years ago. Ken Hale,who&#39;s a linguist,said that of the 6,000 languagesspoken on Earth right now,3,000 aren&#39;t spoken by the children.So that in one generation,we&#39;re going to halve our cultural diversity.He went on to saythat every two weeks,an elder goes to the gravecarrying the last spoken wordof that culture.So an entire philosophy,a body of knowledge about the natural worldthat had been empirically gleaned over centuries,goes away.And this happens every two weeks.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:因此在过去的二十年间，当我还是一名牙医的时候，我就开始周游世界，到处搜集一些像这样的人的故事。现在我就想和你们一起分享一下其中的一些故事。这位是谭丁，她是一位69岁的尼姑。她已经被关进西藏的监狱两年了，就因为她之前张贴了一块布告，反对自己的国家被占领。当我遇见她的时候，她刚花了30天从西藏省会拉萨徒步穿过喜马拉雅山，经过尼泊尔，最终到达印度来见住在达兰萨拉市的领头人——达赖喇嘛。这张照片是她到达三天后我拍的，她当时脚上穿着破旧的跑鞋，脚趾头都伸了出来。而且她是三月份走过来的，当时在三月，那里的雪深可达18500英尺。
en:So for the last 20 years,since my dental experience,I have been traveling the worldand coming backwith stories about some of these people.What I&#39;d like to do right nowis share some of those stories with you.This is Tamdin.She is a 69-year-old nun.She was thrown in prison in Tibet for two yearsfor putting up a little tiny placardprotesting the occupation of her country.And when I met her, she had justtaken a walk over the Himalayasfrom Lhasa, the capital of Tibet,into Nepal, across to India —30 days —to meet her leader, the Dalai Lama.The Dalai Lama lives in Dharamsala, India.So I took this picture three daysafter she arrived,and she had this beat-up pair of tennis shoes on,with her toes sticking out.And she crossed in March,and there&#39;s a lot of snow at 18,500 feet in March.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:这位是宝丁，他是一位62岁的僧侣。他在监狱里呆了33年，那是在起义的时候，整个修道院的僧侣被关进监狱，而达赖喇嘛也被迫离开西藏。在监狱的这些年中，宝丁一直处于挨打、挨饿、被虐待的状态，牙齿甚至都全部掉光了。但当我见到他时，他给我感觉是一个非常和蔼温和的老人。这一点真的给我留下了很深的印象，我就在他出狱后的两周内见到了他，而他经历了过去的那么多事之后，却仍保持着他应有的风度。
en:This is Paldin.Paldin is a 62-year-old monk.And he spent 33 years in prison.His whole monastery was thrown into prisonat the time of the uprising,when the Dalai Lama had to leaveTibet.Andhe was beaten, starved,tortured — lost all his teeth while in prison.And when I met him, he was a kind gentle old man.And it really impressed me —I met him two weeks after he got out of prison —that he went through that experience, and ended upwith the demeanor that he had.
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:我在达兰萨拉市会见这样的人，在我呆那儿的五个星期里，总是听到像这样被赶出西藏躲到达兰萨拉的那些难民讲述类似的故事。然后就在第五个星期，那里举行了一次达赖喇嘛的公开教学。我看着这一群僧侣尼姑，他们中的很多人我刚采访过，听过他们的故事，我看着他们的面容。他们给了我们一个小型的调频收音机，我们便可以听到教学内容的翻译。他当时是这样说的：像对待珍宝一样对待你们的敌人，因为正是这些敌人培养了你的忍耐力，这有助于通往觉悟之门。这些话彻底震惊了我，他竟然告诉这些经历了这么多苦难的人们这些话。
en:So I was in Dharamsala meeting these people,and I&#39;d spent about five weeks there,and I was hearing these similar storiesof these refugees that had poured out of Tibetinto Dharamsala.And it just so happened, on the fifth week,there was a public teaching by the Dalai Lama.AndI was watching this crowd of monks and nuns,many of which I had just interviewed,and heard their stories,and I watched their faces,and they gave us a little FM radio,and we could listen to the translation of his teachings.And what he said was:treat your enemies as if they were precious jewels,because it&#39;s your enemiesthat build your tolerance and patienceon the road to your enlightenment.That hit me so hard,telling these people that had been through this experience.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:因此，两个月后，我去了西藏。我开始采访当地一些人，也拍了一些照。那就是我所做的事，采访，并把他们的相貌拍下来。这位是个小女孩，我是在大昭寺的顶上拍下了她，由于在西藏，拥有一张达赖喇嘛的照片是完全犯法的一件事，这会使你最快进监狱。因此我偷偷地拿出了几张钱夹尺寸的达赖喇嘛的照片，然后我把这些照片都发了出去。当我分发给当地人时，他们要么把照片贴在胸口，要么把照片高高举过头顶，就那样站在那儿不动。这些都是我在十年前做的事，那是达赖喇嘛离开后的第36年。
en:So, two months later, I went intoTibet, and I startedinterviewing the people there, taking my photographs. That&#39;s what I do.I interview and do portraits.And this is a little girl.I took her portrait up on top of the Jokhang Temple.And I&#39;d snuck in —because it&#39;s totally illegal to have a picture of the Dalai Lama in Tibet —it&#39;s the quickest way you can get arrested.So I snuck in a bunch of little wallet-sized pictures of the Dalai Lama,and I would hand them out.And when I gave them to the people,they&#39;d either hold them to their heart,or they&#39;d hold them up to their head and just stay there.And this is —well, at the time — I did this 10 years ago —that was 36 years after the Dalai Lama had left.
时间： 4:34
zh-cn:我继续采访着这些人，给他们拍照。这是吉美和她的妹妹索南，他们住在位于国家西部的青藏高原羌塘地区。那里的海拔有17000英尺，他们刚从更高的海拔18000英尺的牧场下来。同样的事情发生了，当我给她那张照片时，她把它高举到前额处。我每次都是拿出宝丽来相机给他们拍照，这样可以调整检查光线，但当我拿出相机时，她尖叫着跑回了帐篷。
en:SoI was going in, interviewing these people and doing their portraits.This is Jigme and her sister, Sonam.And they live up on the Chang Tang, the Tibetan Plateau,way in the western part of the country.This is at 17,000 feet.And they had just come down from the high pastures,at 18,000 feet.Same thing: gave her a picture,she held it up to her forehead.And I usually hand out Polaroidswhen I do these, because I&#39;m setting up lights,and checking my lights,and when I showed her her Polaroid, she screamed and ran into her tent.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:这位是丹增嘉措，他在两岁时在一个偏僻的农民家里被奉为观世音菩萨。四岁时，他被任为第14世达赖喇嘛。他还是个十几岁的孩子时，就面临着国家被入侵的危险，而他作为国家领导者，必须站出来处理这件事。八年后，人们发现有人想要谋杀他，于是他们将他化妆成乞丐的样子，让他骑着马偷偷溜出了国家，然后踏上了和谭丁一样的旅程。从那以后他便一直在印度住了下去，从未回过国。46年后，丹增嘉措面对这么严重的政治和人权问题，仍然坚持非暴力处理这件事，然而一些年轻的西藏人却开始说：听着，非暴力解决不了问题。大家都知道，暴力作为一种政治工具在当今世界大行其道，然而丹增嘉措仍然坚持非暴力这条底线，这便是今世界支持非暴力的个活生生的楷模。
en:This is Tenzin Gyatso;he was found to be the Buddha of Compassion at the age of two,out in a peasant&#39;s house,way out in the middle of nowhere.At the age of four, he was installedas the 14th Dalai Lama.As a teenager, he facedthe invasion of his country,and had to deal with it — he was the leader of the country.Eight years later, when they discovered there was a plotto kill him,they dressed him up like a beggarand snuck him out of the country on horseback,and took the same trip that Tamdin did.And he&#39;s never been back to his country since.Andif you think about this man,46 years later,still stickingto this non-violent responseto a severe political and human rights issue.And the young people,young Tibetans, are starting to say, listen, this doesn&#39;t work.You know, violence as a political toolis all the rage right now.Andhe still is holding this line.So this is our iconto non-violence in our world —one of our living icons.
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:这是另一位领头人，叫摩伊。这是在厄瓜多尔的亚马逊流域，摩伊今年35岁。1972年在这块亚马逊流域内开采出了石油。自从那时起，不断有石油泄露在亚马逊流域的这一小块地区，数量有埃克森-瓦尔迪兹号事件泄露的石油那么多，甚至有两倍多，那个地区的部落不得不一直迁徙。摩伊属于华欧拉尼族人，他们以凶猛著称，被称作“奥卡族”。他们拿着长矛和吹矢枪赶走了地震学家以及开采石油的工人。我们团队用了两周的时间和这些家伙一起在树林中观察他们打猎，他们用带着毒素的镶齿飞镖猎猴。这些人对大自然的认识了解简直让人难以置信，他们能听到、闻到、看到一些我听不到、闻不到、看不到的东西。我甚至都看不到那些他们用飞镖投射到的野猴。
en:This is another leader of his people.This is Moi. This is in the Ecuadorian Amazon.And Moi is 35 years old.Andthis area of the Ecuadorian Amazon —oil was discovered in 1972.And in this period of time — since that time —as much oil, or twice as much oilas was spilled in the Exxon Valdez accident,was spilled in this little area of the Amazon,and the tribes in this area have constantly had to move.And Moibelongs to the Huaorani tribe,and they&#39;re known asvery fierce, they&#39;re known as &quot;auca.&quot;And they&#39;ve managed to keep outthe seismologists and the oil workerswith spears and blowguns.And we spent —I was with a team —two weeks with these guys out in the junglewatching them hunt.This was on a monkey hunt,hunting with curare-tipped darts.And the knowledge that these people haveabout the natural environment is incredible.They could hear things, smell things, see things I couldn&#39;t see.And I couldn&#39;t even see the monkeysthat they weregetting with these darts.
时间： 7:46
zh-cn:这位是五岁的亚迪拉，她住在一个邻近华欧拉尼族的部落，由于石油泄露，在过去的十年间他们的部落已经迁徙了三次，而我们却从未听说过。最近又有一件破坏这里环境的事发生，作为哥伦比亚计划的一部分，人们将在这里喷洒除草剂——无论是百草枯、草甘膦还是其它品种，在这场农药战争中厄瓜多尔的亚马逊流域内成千上万英亩的树林将毁于一旦。而承担这一切的便是这里的当地人。
en:This is Yadira,and Yadira isfive years old. She&#39;s in atribe that&#39;s neighboring the Huaorani.And her tribe has had to movethree times in the last 10 years because of the oil spills.And we never hear about that. And the latestinfraction against these people is,as part of Plan Colombia,we&#39;re spraying Paraquat or Round Up, whatever it is —we&#39;re defoliating thousands of acresof the Ecuadorian Amazonin our war on drugs.And these people are the people who take the brunt of it.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:这位是蒙伽透，他是华欧拉尼族的萨满法师。他只是对我们这样说：“你知道，我已经老了，也越来越疲惫了，你知道，用长矛赶那些石油工人让我厌烦，我只希望他们离开。”当我工作的时候总是独自旅行，然而这次我做了一件事——我为探索频道举办了一期节目，当我和团队一起进入那个部落时，我非常想深入了解这些人，特别是华欧拉尼族。而事实证明，这些家伙的确就如何与当地人打交道教了我一二。（笑声）
en:This is Mengatoue.He&#39;s the shaman of the Huaorani,andhe said to us, you know, I&#39;m an older man now;I&#39;m getting tired, you know; I&#39;m tiredof spearing these oil workers.I wish they would just go away.And I was — I usually travel alonewhen I do my work, but I did this —I hosted a program for Discovery,and when I went down with the team,I was quite concerned aboutgoing in with a whole bunch of people, especially into the Huaorani,deep into the Huaorani tribe.Andas it turned out, these guys reallytaught me a thing or two about blending inwith the locals.(Laughter)
时间： 9:14
zh-cn:就在911事件之前的2001年8月，我带着儿子达克斯去了巴基斯坦，当时他16岁。过去我也带他旅行过几次，而这次我想让他看看那些一天只靠一美元甚至更少的钱活着的人的生活，我想让他体验伊斯兰教的世界。当时我是和一群人一起去那儿的，报道一群叫卡拉什的部落，那是个有3000信奉精灵的人的部落，他们住在被伊斯兰教徒围绕着的一块非常小的地区，卡拉什部落只有这3000人留下，他们都是一些不可思议的人。因此这对我儿子来说也是次特别的经历。他和这些人晚上通宵未睡，打鼓起舞，他买了个足球，于是每晚我们便在这个小村庄里踢足球。
en:One of the things I didjust before 9/11 —August of 2001 —I took my son, Dax,who was 16 at the time,and I took him to Pakistan.Because at first I wanted —you know, I&#39;ve taken him on a couple of trips,but I wanted him to seepeople that live on a dollar a day or less.I wanted him to get an experiencein the Islamic worldand I also wanted him to —I was going there to work with a group,do a story on a group called the Kalash,that are a group of animists, 3,000 animists,that live — very small area —surrounded by Islam — there&#39;s 3,000of these Kalash left; they&#39;re incredible people.So it was a great experience for him. He stayed up all night with them,drumming and dancing.And he brought a soccer ball,and we had soccer every night in this little village.
时间：10:12
zh-cn:然后我们去见了他们的萨满法师，顺便提一下，蒙伽透也是他们部落的萨满法师。卡拉什部落的巫师叫约翰•杜利坎，他住在与阿富汗交界处的高山上。其实在那另一边的托拉博拉地区，就是奥萨马•本拉登的藏身之处。这是个部落地区，我们和杜利坎呆在一起观看。我对萨满教做过一系列的研究，我觉得这是个很有趣的现象。他们在全世界内用不同的方式对人进行催眠活动，在巴基斯坦，他们的方式是燃烧杜松叶，然后用一头动物来祭祀，将动物的血洒在叶子上，然后吸入烟雾，而且进行催眠的时候他们总是会向山神祷告。
en:And then we went upand met their shaman.By the way, Mengatoue was the shamanof his tribe as well.And this is John Doolikahn,who&#39;s the shaman of the Kalash.And he&#39;s up in the mountains,right on the border with Afghanistan.In fact, on that other side is the area, Tora Bora,the area whereOsama bin Laden&#39;s supposed to be. This is the tribal area.And we watchedand stayed withJohn Doolikahn.And the shaman — I did a whole series on shamanism,which isan interesting phenomenon.But around the world,they go into trance in different ways,and in Pakistan,the way they do it is they burn juniper leavesand they sacrifice an animal,pour the blood of the animal on the leavesand then inhale the smoke.And they&#39;re all prayingto the mountain godsas they go into trance.
时间：11:18
zh-cn:这就是让孩子习惯不同的现实，我觉得这一点很重要。丹•丹尼特以前说过：要让孩子们上一节可以从中学到不同宗教的课程，只是为了让他们的思想能在不同的信仰系统里能在不同的信仰系统里变得灵活。当今世界各种不同信仰之间的冲突越来越频繁，包括发生的一切有关安全的事件都让我觉得很有必要给孩子上这样的一课。因此五年前我们做了这样一件事：我们开设了一个连接土著孩子和美国孩子的项目。起初我们连接了纳瓦霍族的一个地区和西雅图的一间教室，而现在我们连接了15个地方。尼泊尔的加德满都，印度的达兰萨拉，肯尼亚的塔卡温古（在塔卡温古，有三分之一基督徒，三分之一穆斯林徒，另外三分之一信奉精灵的人），秘鲁的坦波，以及阿拉斯加州的北极村，这些都是我们的项目地点。
en:You know,getting kids used to different realities,I think, is so important. What Dan Dennett said the other day —having a curriculum where they study different religions,just to make a mental flexibility,give them a mental flexibilityin different belief systems —I think this is so necessary in our world todayas you see these clash of beliefs taking place.And all the security issues they cause us.So, one thing we did five years ago:we started a program that links kidsin indigenous communities with kids in the United States.So we first hooked upa spot in the Navajo Nation with a classroom in Seattle.We now have 15 sites.We have one in Kathmandu, Nepal;Dharamsala, India; Takaungu, Kenya —Takaungu is one-third Christian, one-third Muslimand one-third animist, the community is —Ollantaytambo, Peru,and Arctic Village, Alaska.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:这位是丹尼尔，他是阿拉斯加州北极村的一位学生。他住在这个小木屋里，没有自来水，没有暖气，没有窗户，更没有高速的互联网连接。这样的情况到处都是，这是秘鲁坦波，我们的项目地点之一，四年前，他们第一次见到了电脑，现在他们教室里已经有了电脑。我们教这些孩子数字化讲故事的方法，我们让他们讲自己关心的群落里的故事。这是在秘鲁，孩子们讲了一个关于他们清理过的河流的故事。我们采取工作坊的形式，请来一些想学数字化流程以及数字化讲故事的人们，让他们和这些孩子在一起。就在去年，我们带去了一组十几岁的孩子，这是效果最好的一次。因此我们的梦想便是将这些青少年连接在一起，让他们有社会服务的经历，也让他们体验跨文化的冲击，因为这些孩子会教当地的同龄人，并帮他们掌握与人交流的基本能力。
en:This is Daniel; he&#39;s one of our studentsin Arctic Village, Alaska.He lives in this log cabin —no running water, no heat other than —no windowsand high-speed Internet connection.And this is —I see this rolling out all over —this is our site in Ollantaytambo, Peru, four years ago,where they first saw their first computers;now they have computers in their classrooms.And the way we&#39;ve done this —we teach digital storytelling to these kids.And we have them tell stories about issues in their communityin their community that they care about.And this is in Peru, where the kids told the storyabout a river that they cleaned up.And the way we do it is, we do it in workshops,and we bring people who want to learndigital workflow and storytelling,and have themwork with the kids.And just this last year we&#39;ve taken a group of teenagers in,and this has worked the best.So our dream is to bring teenagers together,so they&#39;ll have a community service experienceas well as a cross-cultural experience,as they teach kids in these areasand help them build their communication infrastructure.
时间：13:34
zh-cn:这是在达兰萨拉市的一个西藏儿童村子里教他们处理图像。我们让这些孩子制作自己的主页，这些都是他们做的影片，我们一共收到了大约60份这些孩子做的影片，这简直是令人难以置信。他们制作完影片后，有一晚我们向整个群落的人展示了这些影片。这是在塔卡温古，我们拥有一个发生器和数码放映机，我们在一间谷仓里放映其中的一部影片。若你们有机会，可以去访问我们的网站，便能欣赏到这些孩子制作出来的不可思议的影片。
en:This is teaching Photoshopin the Tibetan children&#39;s village in Dharamsala.We have the website, where the kids all get their homepage.This is all their movies. We&#39;ve got about 60 moviesthat these kids have made,and they&#39;re quite incredible.The one I want to show you —after we get them to make the movies,we have a night where we show the movies to the community.And this is in Takaungu —we&#39;ve got a generator and a digital projector,and we&#39;re projecting it up against a barn,and showing one of the movies that they made.And if you get a chance, you can go to our website, and you&#39;ll seethe incredible work these kids do.
时间：14:13
zh-cn:另一方面，我也想让土著孩子有表达想法的机会，那也是这个项目主要的目的之一。然而另一个主要的目的是让美国人了解自己的本土文化。《国家地理》杂志刚做了个罗珀研究，对象是美国以及其他九个工业国家的18至26岁的人。这个研究耗费了两百万美元，美国人的地理知识排倒数第二。70%的孩子在地图上找不到阿富汗以及伊拉克，60%找不到印度，30%找不到太平洋，而这个研究仅仅进行于几年之前。
en:The other thing:I wanted to give indigenous people a voice.That was one of the big motivating factors.But the other motivating factor isthe insular nature of our country.National Geographic just did a Roper Studyof 18 to 26 year oldsin our countryand in nine other industrialized countries.It was a two million dollar study.United States came in second to lastin geographic knowledge.70 percent of the kids couldn&#39;t findAfghanistan or Iraq on a map;60 percent couldn&#39;t find India;30 percent couldn&#39;t find the Pacific Ocean.And this is a studythat was just done a couple of years ago.
时间：15:01
zh-cn:在剩下的几分钟内，我想展示给你们看的是一部危地马拉市学生做的一部影片。我们刚在危地马拉开设了一个工作坊，就在我们开设工作坊的前一个星期，十月的斯坦飓风导致的大规模塌方活埋了村子里的600条生命。这孩子就是住在那个村子里，飓风时他正好不在那里，这就是他制作的关于那次飓风的一部短小的影片。在我们制作这部影片之前他从未见过电脑，于是我们教他使用图像处理软件，现在就让我们一起欣赏吧。
en:So what I&#39;d like to show you now,in the couple of minutes I have left,is a film that a student made in Guatemala.We just had a workshop in Guatemala.A week before we got to the workshop,a massive landslide, caused by Hurricane Stan,last October, came in and buried600 people alive in their village.And this kid lived in the village —he wasn&#39;t there at the time —and this is the little movie he put together about that.And he hadn&#39;t seen a computer beforewe did this movie. We taught him Photoshop and —yeah, we can play it.
时间：16:01
zh-cn:这是他从祖父那里学来的一段古老玛雅葬礼的圣歌。
en:This is an old Mayan funeral chantthat he got from his grandfather.
时间：18:24
zh-cn:非常感谢大家。（掌声）
en:Thank you very much.(Applause)
