时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想跟你们分享一些对时间的神秘力量的看法当然是在很短的时间内
en:I want to share with yousome ideas about the secret power of time,in a very short time.
时间： 0:18
zh-cn:视频：好的，开始计时。30秒倒计时保持安静。注意时间。结束倒计时。15秒倒计时10，9，8，76，5，4，3，2......
en:Video: All right, start the clock please. 30 seconds studio.Keep it quiet please. Settle down.It&#39;s about time. End sequence. Take one.15 seconds studio.10, nine, eight, seven,six, five, four, three, two ...
时间： 0:45
zh-cn:Philip Zimbardo: 让我们来看看这段对话是有关“亚当的诱惑”快，亚当，别磨磨唧唧的，就咬一口，我已咬过了就一口，亚当。不要放弃夏娃我不知道啊我真的不想惹麻烦好吧，就一口。能怎么样？（笑声）
en:Philip Zimbardo: Let&#39;s tune into the conversationof the principals in Adam&#39;s temptation.&quot;Come on Adam, don&#39;t be so wishy-washy. Take a bite.&quot; &quot;I did.&quot;&quot;One bite, Adam. Don&#39;t abandon Eve.&quot;&quot;I don&#39;t know, guys.I don&#39;t want to get in trouble.&quot;&quot;Okay. One bite. What the hell?&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 1:10
zh-cn:生活中充满了诱惑。而且到处都是：屈服或反抗是、不是、现在、随后、冲动、沉稳专注现在和展望未来激情时刻一旦到来，道德束缚将皆被打破
en:Life is temptation. It&#39;s all about yielding, resisting,yes, no, now, later, impulsive, reflective,present focus and future focus.Promised virtues fall prey to the passions of the moment.
时间： 1:21
zh-cn:那些承诺婚前无性行为的女孩– 这里感谢下小布什总统大多数，大概百分之六十的人在一年之内就违背了自己的承诺而这些人几乎没采取任何“安全措施”多么多的承诺啊
en:Of teenage girls who pledged sexual abstinence and virginity until marriage —thank you George Bush —the majority, 60 percent, yielded to sexual temptations within one year.And most of them did so without using birth control.So much for promises.
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:现在我们来试试引诱4岁的孩子，拿他们来做个试验他们现在有一个棉花糖，如果他们能够等到实验员回来再吃的话，就可以得到2个棉花糖这当然是需要付出的，如果你真喜欢吃棉花糖的话，那就等着但结果是3分之2的孩子屈服于诱惑他们等不了。当然，其它的孩子都得到了第二个棉花糖因为他们抵抗了诱惑。他们甘于先苦后甜。
en:Now lets tempt four-year-olds, giving them a treat.They can have one marshmallow now. But if they waituntil the experimenter comes back, they can have two.Of course it pays, if you like marshmallows, to wait.What happens is two-thirds of the kids give in to temptation.They cannot wait. The others, of course, wait.They resist the temptation. They delay the now for later.
时间： 1:56
zh-cn:沃特米塞奇，是我在斯坦福大学的同事他在14年后重新找到这些孩子并去勘察他们现时的情况结果发现这两组孩子在各个方面都有着巨大的差异那些等到了第二个棉花糖的孩子在SAT中比另一组得分平均高250分这是多么大的差异啊！这根本就是两组智商水平不同的孩子啊他们都没有任何问题，都是好学生他们自信而且果断。那么今天我所要说的关键是同样也是你们的关键点就是由“面向现在”转变为“展望未来”
en:Walter Mischel, my colleague at Stanford,went back 14 years later,to try to discover what was different about those kids.There were enormous differences between kids who resistedand kids who yielded, in many ways.The kids who resisted scored 250 points higher on the SAT.That&#39;s enormous. That&#39;s like a whole set of different IQ points.They didn&#39;t get in as much trouble. They were better students.They were self-confident and determined. And the key for me today,the key for you,is, they were future-focused rather than present-focused.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:那什么是时间洞察力呢？这将是我下面要讲的时间洞察力是研究个人包括我们在内，如何以时间区域或时间类别为单位划分自身的经历体验。其实我们一直都在自然而然地做着而影响我们划分方式的因素有很多，包括不同的文化背景、国家个人、社会阶层以及不同的教育背景问题是由于这些因素的存在，最终导致时间洞察力都具是片面的因为你学会经常使用其中的一些，而其他的则被很少使用
en:So what is time perspective? That&#39;s what I&#39;m going to talk about today.Time perspective is the study of how individuals,all of us, divide the flow of your human experienceinto time zones or time categories.And you do it automatically and non-consciously.They vary between cultures, between nations,between individuals, between social classes,between education levels.And the problem is that they can become biased,because you learn to over-use some of them and under-use the others.
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:是什么促使你做出那些选择？你所做的决定是基于你怎么采取行动的对一些人来说，这个决定只是基于现状另一些人是基于他们的直觉。对于那些基于现状而做决定的人我们称呼他们为：“面向现在”因为他们专注于现正发生的事情
en:What determines any decision you make?You make a decision on which you&#39;re going to base an action.For some people it&#39;s only about what is in the immediate situation,what other people are doing and what you&#39;re feeling.And those people, when they make their decisions in that format —we&#39;re going to call them &quot;present-oriented,&quot;because their focus is what is now.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:对于另一些人来说，现正发生什么并不重要就好像是说：“我以前好像经历过类似的事情”一样所以，他们基于过去的经验来做决定我们称呼这些人为：“观望过去”，因为他们专注于过去
en:For others, the present is irrelevant.It&#39;s always about &quot;What is this situation like that I&#39;ve experienced in the past?&quot;So that their decisions are based on past memories.And we&#39;re going to call those people &quot;past-oriented,&quot; because they focus on what was.
时间： 3:20
zh-cn:还有一部分人，他们的考虑不是基于现在，也不是过去而是未来他们专注于预期的结果就像成本效益分析一样我们称呼这些人为：展望未来。因为他们专注于将来会是怎么样的
en:For others it&#39;s not the past, it&#39;s not the present,it&#39;s only about the future.Their focus is always about anticipated consequences.Cost-benefit analysis.We&#39;re going to call them &quot;future-oriented.&quot; Their focus is on what will be.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:那么，时间悖论，这里我要讨论的是：时间洞察力的悖论会不会有某个因素影响你做出的每一个决定而你又完全不知？那你就具有某种程度上的片面的时间洞察力实际上是有六种时间洞察力，其中两个属于“面向现在”两个属于“观望过去”，还有两个属于“展望未来”你可以专注于“积极经历”或“消极经历”也可以专注于“享受现在”指的是你专注于生活中的快乐，或者自身宿命这些都无所谓，因为你的生活尽在掌握当然，你也可以“展望未来”，设定一个目标或者超越未来指的是：生命在死后重新开始通过增强精神灵活性来顺利地提升时间洞察力这有赖于环境的需求这就是你要学着去做的
en:So, time paradox, I want to argue,the paradox of time perspective,is something that influences every decision you make,you&#39;re totally unaware of.Namely, the extent to which you have one of thesebiased time perspectives.Well there is actually six of them. There are two ways to be present-oriented.There is two ways to be past-oriented, two ways to be future.You can focus on past-positive, or past-negative.You can be present-hedonistic,namely you focus on the joys of life, or present-fatalist —it doesn&#39;t matter, your life is controlled.You can be future-oriented, setting goals.Or you can be transcendental future:namely, life begins after death.Developing the mental flexibility to shift time perspectives fluidlydepending on the demands of the situation,that&#39;s what you&#39;ve got to learn to do.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:那么，什么是最佳的时间洞察力呢？高度依赖于“积极经历”，适度依赖于未来适度依赖于”享受现在“永远不考虑“消极经历”和“宿命论”其实，最佳的时间洞察力是由你过去的经历“积极经历”奠定了基础，你和你的家庭，独立自主从未来得到是值得奋斗的目标，新的挑战从“享受现在”中得到的是动力去探索自身世界、他人以及原始需求
en:So, very quickly, what is the optimal time profile?High on past-positive. Moderately high on future.And moderate on present-hedonism.And always low on past-negativeand present-fatalism.So the optimal temporal mix is what you get from the past —past-positive gives you roots. You connect your family, identity and your self.What you get from the future is wingsto soar to new destinations, new challenges.What you get from the present hedonismis the energy, the energy to explore yourself,places, people, sensuality.
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:任何时间洞察力中总是负性多于正性的举个例子：为了将来的成功我们需要牺牲些什么呢？我们需要牺牲和家庭在一起的时光，需要牺牲和朋友在一起的时光需要牺牲那些快乐的时光，需要牺牲个人嗜好需要牺牲业余爱好，需要牺牲睡眠时间。因此会影响身体健康他们的生活中只有工作、成就和控制欲我保证你们在座的一些人会对此引起共鸣（笑声）
en:Any time perspective in excess has more negatives than positives.What do futures sacrifice for success?They sacrifice family time. They sacrifice friend time.They sacrifice fun time. They sacrifice personal indulgence.They sacrifice hobbies. And they sacrifice sleep. So it affects their health.And they live for work, achievement and control.I&#39;m sure that resonates with some of the TEDsters.(Laughter)
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:这些与我引起了共鸣，我出生于南布朗克斯贫民窟中的一个贫困的西西里岛人的家庭中。每个人都是在沉湎过去和活在当下在这里，我，作为一位“展望未来”的人拜我的老师所赐，我做出了以上所有的牺牲并将我改变成为一位“展望未来”的人。告诉我不要那个棉花糖因为如果你等待的话，就能吃到2个直到我学会了如何平衡舍与得的关系。现在我学会了“享受现在”，同时也学会了观望“积极经历”因此，在我76岁的时候，我感觉到从没有过的精力、动力现在的我比以前任何时候都要快乐！
en:And it resonated for me. I grew up as a poor kid in the South Bronx ghetto,a Sicilian family — everyone lived in the past and present.I&#39;m here as a future-oriented personwho went over the top, who did all these sacrificesbecause teachers intervened, and made me future oriented.Told me don&#39;t eat that marshmallow,because if you wait you&#39;re going to get two of them,until I learned to balance out.I&#39;ve added present-hedonism, I&#39;ve added a focus on the past-positive,so, at 76 years old, I am more energetic than ever, more productive,and I&#39;m happier than I have ever been.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:这里，我只是想说：要应用这个原理去解决世界上的很多问题改变学校的退学率打击毒品，增强青少年健康用时间隐喻法治疗那些患有创伤后应激障碍的老兵 — 创造医学奇迹促进可持续发展和保护在具有50%退出率的医院内减缓身体康复改变那些呼吁自杀的恐怖分子将家庭矛盾转化为时间区域的冲突
en:I just want to say that we are applying this to many world problems:changing the drop-out rates of school kids,combating addictions, enhancing teen health,curing vets&#39; PTSD with time metaphors — getting miracle cures —promoting sustainability and conservation,reducing physical rehabilitation where there is a 50-percent drop out rate,altering appeals to suicidal terrorists,and modifying family conflicts as time-zone clashes.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:最后我想说的是如果真正理解自身的以及其他人的时间观点的话生活中的许多困惑都会被解开道理是简单且显而易见的但结论是深奥的谢谢！（掌声）
en:So I want to end by saying:many of life&#39;s puzzles can be solvedby understanding your time perspective and that of others.And the idea is so simple, so obvious,but I think the consequences are really profound.Thank you so much.(Applause)
