时间： 0:12
zh-cn:在一个炎热的十月早晨，我下了过夜火车在曼德勒，那是旧的缅甸皇室首都，现在是缅甸联邦了。到了街上，我碰到了一群衣着朴素的人，站在他们的黄包车旁边。其中的一个走上前，想带我在附近逛逛。他提出的价格是难以置信的，比我在家一根巧克力棒的价格还要便宜。
en:One hot October morning,I got off the all-night trainin Mandalay,the old royal capital of Burma,now Myanmar.And out on the street, I ran intoa group of rough menstanding beside their bicycle rickshaws.And one of them came upand offered to show me around.The price he quoted was outrageous.It was less than I would payfor a bar of chocolate at home.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:所以我爬上他的三轮车，他开始缓缓地载着我，穿梭在皇宫和宝塔之间。这时，他开始讲述他是如何从他的村庄来到城市，他取得了数学的学位。梦想成为一名老师。但是，受军阀独裁的统治的生活是很困难的，所以到现在，这就是他唯一赖以生存的方式。多少个夜晚，他告诉我，他睡在自己的三轮车里，为了能够接到下连夜火车的第一个乘客。
en:So I clambered into his trishaw,and he began pedaling us slowlybetween palaces and pagodas.And as he did, he told me howhe had come to the city from his village.He&#39;d earned a degree in mathematics.His dream was to be a teacher.But of course, life is hardunder a military dictatorship,and so for now, this was the only wayhe could make a living.Many nights, he told me,he actually slept in his trishawso he could catch the first visitorsoff the all-night train.
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:很快，我们发现，在很多方面，我们其实很像——我们都是二十几岁，我们都热爱异国文化。他邀请我到他家。
en:And very soon, we foundthat in certain ways,we had so much in common —we were both in our 20s,we were both fascinatedby foreign cultures —that he invited me home.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:所以我们离开了宽大且拥挤的马路，开始颠簸在一条条凹凸不平的巷子里。身边都是破旧的小屋。我完全不知道我在哪，我意识到什么都有可能发生在我身上。我可能会被打劫或者下药，或者更糟。没人会知道。
en:So we turned off the wide,crowded streets,and we began bumpingdown rough, wild alleyways.There were broken shacks all around.I really lost the sense of where I was,and I realized that anythingcould happen to me now.I could get mugged or druggedor something worse.Nobody would know.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:最终，他停了车，带我进了一个棚屋，棚屋只有一个小小的房间。然后他趴下，伸手到床下。有点让我不知所措。我等待着，想知道他会拿出什么东西。终于，他抽出了一个盒子，里面是每一封他从外国游客那里收到的信。其中的一些，被他粘贴着，他新交外国朋友的小小的黑白照片，
en:Finally, he stopped and led me into a hut,which consisted of just one tiny room.And then he leaned down,and reached under his bed.And something in me froze.I waited to see what he would pull out.And finally he extracted a box.Inside it was every single letterhe had ever receivedfrom visitors from abroad,and on some of them he had pastedlittle black-and-white worn snapshotsof his new foreign friends.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:那个晚上，当我们在互道再见的时候，我意识到，他也向我展示了旅行的秘密，那就是沉浸于其中，由里及外，去你不会去的地方，去探索不确定，模糊，甚至是恐惧。
en:So when we said goodbye that night,I realized he had also shown methe secret point of travel,which is to take a plunge,to go inwardly as well as outwardlyto places you would never go otherwise,to venture into uncertainty,ambiguity,even fear.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:在家，我们极容易认为事情都在掌控之中。离家在外的时候，你要记住，每一分每一秒，你不会，也不能了解事情的全部。
en:At home, it&#39;s dangerously easyto assume we&#39;re on top of things.Out in the world, you are remindedevery moment that you&#39;re not,and you can&#39;t get to the bottomof things, either.
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:“无论何处，人们都想通晓世事，”拉尔夫·沃尔多·爱默生提醒过我们，“但是正因为我们无法通晓世事我们才有希望。”
en:Everywhere, &quot;People wish to be settled,&quot;Ralph Waldo Emerson reminded us,&quot;but only insofaras we are unsettledis there any hope for us.&quot;
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:在这个会议，我们都很幸运，能够听到一些令人激动的新主意和发现，知识就在这样令人激动的方式里被传播。但是有的时候，知识不再起作用。那就是当你的人生将被决定的时候：坠入爱河，失去朋友，面对死亡。然后，当你失败或失落的时候，你才会发现你是谁。
en:At this conference,we&#39;ve been lucky enoughto hear some exhilaratingnew ideas and discoveriesand, really, about all the waysin which knowledge is beingpushed excitingly forwards.But at some point, knowledge gives out.And that is the momentwhen your life is truly decided:you fall in love;you lose a friend;the lights go out.And it&#39;s then, when you&#39;re lostor uneasy or carried out of yourself,that you find out who you are.
时间： 4:13
zh-cn:我不相信无知是福。科学毋庸置疑让我们的生活变得更光明，更长久，更健康。我永远感激教导我物理定律的老师和教会我三乘三得九的老师。我能在任何时候用手指算出来。但是当一个数学家告诉我，负三乘负三等于九，这种逻辑感觉有点像信任。
en:I don&#39;t believe that ignorance is bliss.Science has unquestionably made our livesbrighter and longer and healthier.And I am forever grateful to the teacherswho showed me the laws of physicsand pointed out thatthree times three makes nine.I can count that out on my fingersany time of night or day.But when a mathematician tells methat minus three timesminus three makes nine,that&#39;s a kind of logicthat almost feels like trust.
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:博学的反义，换一个角度来说，不一定是无知。也可能是思忖，或者怀疑。都有可能。在我的人生中，我发现是我不知道的事情让我进步和成长，远超过我知道的事情。而且也是我不知道的事情，让我和身边的人更亲近。
en:The opposite of knowledge, in other words,isn&#39;t always ignorance.It can be wonder.Or mystery.Possibility.And in my life, I&#39;ve foundit&#39;s the things I don&#39;t knowthat have lifted me upand pushed me forwardsmuch more than the things I do know.It&#39;s also the things I don&#39;t knowthat have often brought me closerto everybody around me.
时间： 5:17
zh-cn:最近连续的八个十一月，我和达赖喇嘛在日本游历。他每天说的一件事，似乎最能够让人们安慰和自信的，就是“我不知道。”
en:For eight straight Novembers, recently,I traveled every year across Japanwith the Dalai Lama.And the one thing he said every daythat most seemed to give peoplereassurance and confidencewas, &quot;I don&#39;t know.&quot;
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:“西藏会发生什么？”“什么时候世界会和平？”“培养孩子最好的方式是什么？”
en:&quot;What&#39;s going to happen to Tibet?&quot;&quot;When are we evergoing to get world peace?&quot;&quot;What&#39;s the best way to raise children?&quot;
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:“坦白说，”这个智者谈到，“我不知道。”
en:&quot;Frankly,&quot; says this very wise man,&quot;I don&#39;t know.&quot;
时间： 5:51
zh-cn:获得过诺贝尔奖的经济学家，丹尼尔·卡内曼曾经花了超过60年研究人类行为，他的结论是，相对于我们真正知道的事情，我们总是对自以为知道的事情更自信。他的表述是，“我们拥有无尽的忽视无知的能力。“我们知道“我们队伍这周末会赢。”我们只会记得这个在少数我们是正确的情况下。大多数时候，我们都处在无知当中，这也是正是亲近所在。
en:The Nobel Prize-winningeconomist Daniel Kahnemanhas spent more than 60 years nowresearching human behavior,and his conclusion isthat we are always much more confidentof what we think we knowthan we should be.We have, as he memorably puts it,an &quot;unlimited abilityto ignore our ignorance.&quot;We know — quote, unquote — our teamis going to win this weekend,and we only remember that knowledgeon the rare occasions when we&#39;re right.Most of the time, we&#39;re in the dark.And that&#39;s where real intimacy lies.
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:你知道你的爱人明天要做什么吗？你想知道吗？
en:Do you know what your loveris going to do tomorrow?Do you want to know?
时间： 6:42
zh-cn:对于一些人来说，我们的父母，亚当和夏娃，如果他们只从生命之树获取食物，他们可以永生。但是他们开始一点一点地从知善恶树上获取食物的时候，他们落入了无知的陷阱。他们不耐心和烦躁，自我意识太强。他们可能意识到的太晚了一点，总有一些事情是需要了解的，但是还有更多最好处在未知的事情。
en:The parents of us all,as some people call them,Adam and Eve,could never die, so long as theywere eating from the tree of life.But the minute they began nibblingfrom the tree of the knowledgeof good and evil,they fell from their innocence.They grew embarrassed and fretful,self-conscious.And they learned,a little too late, perhaps,that there are certainly some thingsthat we need to know,but there are many, many morethat are better left unexplored.
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:当我还是个孩子的时候，当然，我觉得我什么都知道，我已经在教室里花了20年收集信息，而且，我在信息行业工作，给时代杂志写文章。我去日本的第一次旅行持续了两周半，回来的时候，我写了一份40页的文章，关于日本寺庙时尚潮流，棒球比赛的每一个细节。还有日本的民族魂。
en:Now, when I was a kid,I knew it all, of course.I had been spending 20 yearsin classrooms collecting facts,and I was actuallyin the information business,writing articles for Time Magazine.And I took my first real trip to Japanfor two-and-a-half weeks,and I came back with a 40-page essayexplaining every last detailabout Japan&#39;s temples,its fashions, its baseball games,its soul.
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:但是，更深的层次里，依旧有一些我无法理解的东西，无法言表地打动了我，让我决定造访并在日本定居。现在，我已经在那儿待了28年，我真的没有办法告诉你们很多关于我的第二个家。这真的很棒，因为这意味着我每天都会有些新发现。在这个过程中，我会查看墙角，并发现上万的我永远不会知道的东西。
en:But underneath all that,something that I couldn&#39;t understandso moved me for reasonsI couldn&#39;t explain to you yet,that I decided to go and live in Japan.And now that I&#39;ve been there for 28 years,I really couldn&#39;t tell youvery much at allabout my adopted home.Which is wonderful,because it means every dayI&#39;m making some new discovery,and in the process,looking around the cornerand seeing the hundred thousand thingsI&#39;ll never know.
时间： 8:23
zh-cn:知识是无价的礼物。但是装作知道可能比无知还要危险。
en:Knowledge is a priceless gift.But the illusion of knowledgecan be more dangerous than ignorance.
时间： 8:32
zh-cn:想想看你了解你的爱人，或者你的敌人，可能会比你不了解他们还要危险。在日本的每个早上，当阳光涌入我们小公寓的时候，我都会因为不看天气预报而难受，因为如果我看了，我的思绪会被积压，分散，即使是晴天。
en:Thinking that you know your loveror your enemycan be more treacherousthan acknowledging you&#39;ll never know them.Every morning in Japan, as the sunis flooding into our little apartment,I take great pains not to consultthe weather forecast,because if I do,my mind will be overclouded, distracted,even when the day is bright.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:我当全职作家已经34年了，我学到的一件事，就是改变是在无知的时候发生的，当我不知道接下来会发生什么的时候，当我不知道身边的事情都是光明的时候。也是当坠入爱河的时候，或者身陷危机的时候。突然，我们又回到了那辆三轮车，我们正在颠簸地离开宽大明亮的马路，并提醒我们旅行的真谛，因此，在生活中，你因面对未知的能力而强壮，
en:I&#39;ve been a full-timewriter now for 34 years.And the one thing that I have learnedis that transformation comeswhen I&#39;m not in charge,when I don&#39;t know what&#39;s coming next,when I can&#39;t assume I am biggerthan everything around me.And the same is true in loveor in moments of crisis.Suddenly, we&#39;re back in that trishaw againand we&#39;re bumping off the broad,well-lit streets;and we&#39;re reminded, really,of the first law of traveland, therefore, of life:you&#39;re only as strongas your readiness to surrender.
时间： 9:46
zh-cn:可能，在最后，做普通人，可能比做一个无所不知的人还要重要。
en:In the end, perhaps,being humanis much more importantthan being fully in the know.
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
