时间： 0:11
zh-cn:大量的剩余物质确实能创造很多价值和金钱。我们一直在为财富而获取价值而没有去试着为大众创造价值当我们在为财富创造价值的时候我们有们有考虑到有那么四十亿人口那些日收入水平不超过两美元被称为“金字塔”底层的人们为财富创造价值同时也能为大众创造价值的难处和挑战是什么呢？我们会在这里就性能和价格阐述一下。如果你拥有金钱，当然你也就拥有价值。你可以以非常高的价格购买一辆性能优越的奔驰轿车。但要是你没有钱，会怎样呢？好吧， 那么你骑自行车，承担你自己的重量以及其他的重量，然后你才能赚到每天所需的“面包”。那么，穷人不再贫穷，他们开始成为中下阶层。要是他们这样做下去，理所当然，一段时间后他们的生活条件会得到提升，他们开始骑摩托车。但是，同样的问题依然存在，他们没有创造太多的价值，因为他们不能承担比摩托车再多的了。问题是，以那样低的价格，你愿意给他们额外的回报吗？只要会开车，就有能力买到一辆价格低外观好，安全性高的汽车。似乎看起来非常不现实，不是吗？
en:The big residualis always value for money.All the time we are trying to get value for money.What we don&#39;t look foris value for many,while we are generating value for money.Do we care about those four billion peoplewhose income levels are less than two dollars a day,the so-called bottom of the pyramid?What are the challenges in getting value for moneyas well as value for many?We have described herein terms of the performanceand the price.If you have money, of course, you can get the value.You can get a Mercedesfor a very high price,very high performance.But if you don&#39;t have money, what happens?Well, you are to ride a bicycle,carrying your own weight and also some other weight,so that you can earn the bread for the day.Well, poor do not remain poor;they become lower-middle-class.And if they do so,then, of course, the conditions improve,and they start riding on scooters.But the challenge is, again, they don&#39;t get much value,because they can&#39;t afford anything more than the scooter.The issue is, at that price,can you give them some extra value?A super value,in terms of their ability to ride in a car,to get that dignity, to get that safety,looks practically impossible, isn&#39;t it.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:这是我们在印度的街头可以经常看到的。看到的是同样的东西，但很多人的想法却不一样，其中一个就是，Ratan Tata (Tata集团的现任主席）。领导者之所以伟大，除了他们的怀中有激情以外，事实上他们都有，也必须是有创新思维的。一个创新者的字典中没有“不可能”他们相信事情是可以实现的。但是像Ratan那样的伟大的领导者，也要有同情心。吉祥天女（婆罗门教-印度教的幸福与财富女神）是绝对真实的：不仅仅是Ratan Tata，这些年来的Tata集团也是这样。让我来证实我们刚刚讲到的。事实上，我一直到12岁都没有鞋穿那些在艰难中奋斗的日子是我人生中的一件大事。当我完成了初中学习，我在12万5千名学生中排行11.但是因为经济状况不好的妈妈无法承受我的学费我必须要辍学。这时候，Tata基金会给我每个月6卢布的资助，将近1美金一个月，持续了6年。这就是为什么我现在可以站在你们面前。这就是Tata集团。（鼓掌）创新，怜悯和激情。他们结合了这些元素。
en:Now, this is somethingthat we see on Indian streetsall the time.But many people see the same thingand think things differently,and one of them is here, Ratan Tata.The great thing about our leadersis that, should they not only have passion in their belly,which practically all of them have,they&#39;re also very innovative.An innovator is one who does not know it cannot be done.They believe that things can be done.But great leaders like Ratanhave compassion.And what you said, Lakshmi, is absolutely true:it&#39;s not just Ratan Tata,it&#39;s the house of Tatas over time.Let me confirm what she said.Yes, I went barefootuntil I was 12.I struggled to [unclear] daywas a huge issue.And when I finished my SSC, the eleventh standard,I stood eleventh among 125,000 students.But I was about to leave the school,because my poor mother couldn&#39;t afford schooling.And it was [unclear] Tata Trust, which gave me six rupees per month,almost a dollar per month for six years.That&#39;s how I&#39;m standing before you.So that is the House of Tata.(Applause)Innovation, compassion and passion.They combine all that.
时间： 2:55
zh-cn:同时，同情心也困扰着他们，因为当他看到... 事实上，大概8，,9年前他告诉我他是怎么驾驶的有一天他开着车，那天下着雨，他看到在路上有一个家庭，就像我刚刚给你们看的一样，他们都淋湿了，车上还有一个婴儿。然后他决定，“我一定要给他们一辆车，一辆他们可以承担的起的车。一辆只要2千美金的车。”当然，当你说出这些话的时候，人们马上就会说这是不可能的。而且这还是由铃木说的。他说，“哦，他可能要制造一台三轮车。”你可以看到这幅漫画。可是他们没有这样做。他们制造了一辆正规的汽车。Nano.请留意，我身高1米8，Ratan比我还高，我们仍有富余的空间在车的前部，和车的尾部。这辆特殊的，令人难以置信的车。当然，一事成功,事事顺利；一个接一个想要改变社会的人出现了。他们开始说，“我们也想制造Nano这样的汽车。我们要大批生产Nano这样的汽车。“
en:And it was that compassion which bothered them,because when he saw — in fact, he told me about eight or nine years agohow he was driving his own car —he drives his own car by the way —and he saw in the rain,a family like the one that I showed to yougetting drenched with an infant.And then he said, &quot;Well, I must give them a car that they can afford,one lakh car, $2,000 car.&quot;Of course, as soon as you say something like thispeople say it is impossible,and that&#39;s what was said by Suzuki.He said, oh, probably he is going to build a three-wheelerwith stepney.And you can see the cartoon here.Well they didn&#39;t build that. They built a proper car. Nano.And mind you, I&#39;m six feet half an inch,Ratan is taller than me,and we have ample space in the frontand ample space in the back in this particular car.And incredible car.And of course, nothing succeeds like success;the cynics then turned around,and one after the otherthey also started saying, &quot;Yes, we also want to make a car in the Nano Segment.We&#39;ll manufacture a car in the Nano Segment.&quot;
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:Nano诞生的伟大股市是怎样展开的呢？让我告诉你一些事情。举个例子，我们是这样开始的：Ratan正要开始组建一个由五位工程师组成的团队，这些都是二十多岁的年轻人。然后他说，“好吧，我不会给你限定一辆车，但我会限定一个价格。10万卢布 （约1万5千人民币），你们必须在这个价格范围内制造这辆汽车。”他还告诉他们，“不要墨守成规。要极尽你们的想象力。”并且在此刻，他非常专注于这个挑战，所以他自己也成为了团队的一名成员。不可思议，是吧？还是这个故事，他参加汽车的雨刷设计的时候。他一直思考到半夜。然后在清早带着解决的方法回来了。但是，谁是团队的领队？领队是Girish Wagh,一个仅仅34岁的男人。Nano团队的平均年龄才27岁。
en:How did this great story unfold,the making of Nano?Let me tell you a bit about it.For example, how we started:Ratan just began with a five-engineer team,young people in their mid-twenties.And he said,&quot;Well, I won&#39;t define the vehicle for you,but I will define the cost for you.It is one lakh, 100,000 rupees,and you are to make it within that.&quot;And he told them,&quot;Question the unquestionable.Stretch the envelope.&quot;And at a point in time,he got so engrossed in the whole challenge,that he himself became a member of the team.Can you believe it?I still am told about this storyof that single wiper design in which he participated.Until midnight, he&#39;d be thinking.Early morning he&#39;ll be coming back with sort of solutions.But who was the team leader?The team leader was Girish Wagh,a 34 year-old boy in [unclear].And the Nano team average agewas just 27 years.
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:他们确实在设计中做到了创新和超越。第一次打破了传统标准中的许多准则。举一个例子，一个两缸汽油发动机只用了一个平衡轴。胶黏剂取代着鋶钉。这是一次共同创作，一个巨大的来自厂商和供应商的共同创作。在这个事情上的所有想法都受到欢迎。100个厂商驻扎在同一个地方，开发了创新型的汽车经销模式。想象一下一个卖衣服的家伙，举个例子，将要卖汽车。这是难以置信的创新。去寻求非汽车行业的解决方法。这是一个开放的创新，欢迎来自各界的想法。顺便提一下，直升机的座位和窗户的机制，以及仪表板的设计，都是被两轮汽车所启发的。以及两轮车中的燃料管和灯。
en:And they did innovation in design and beyond.Broke many norms of the standard conventions for the first time.For example, that a two-cylinder gas enginewas used in a car with a single balancer shaft.Adhesives were replacing the rivets.There was a co-creation, a huge co-creation,with vendors and suppliers.All ideas on board were welcome.100 vendors were co-located adjacent to the plant,and innovative business models for automobile dealerships were developed.Imagine that a fellowwho sells cloth, for example, will be selling Nano.I mean, it was incredible innovation.Seeking solutions for non-auto sectors.It was an open innovation,ideas from all over were welcome.The mechanism of helicopters seats and windows was used, by the way,as well as a dashboardthat was inspired by two-wheelers.The fuel lines and lampswere as in two-wheelers.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:事情的关键在于，如何花费更少而获得更多。一直以来，他们都有一个任务，你不能违反任务的原则，成本必须低于2千美金。所以，每一个原件都必须是有双重功效的。举个例子，座位的提升器既有着座位的架置作用，也是架构中负责加固的组成部分。相比起典型的轿车，Nano汽车只包含了以往一半数量的组件。车身长度缩短了百分之八。但目前的入门级轿车相比，Nano缩短了8%的车身长度，却增加百分之二十一的内部空间。
en:And the crux of the matter was, however,getting more from less.All the time, you have been given an envelope.You can&#39;t cross that envelope,which is 100,000 rupees, 2,000 dollars.And therefore, each componenthad to have a dual functionality.And the seat riser, for example,serving as a mounting for the seatas well as a structural partof the functional rigidity.Half the number of partsare contained in Nanoin comparison to a typical passenger car.The length is smaller by eight percent by the way.But the current entry-level carsin comparison to that is eight percent less,but 21 percent more inside space.
时间： 6:41
zh-cn:这确实是真的，不减反增，切切实实的看到哪里增加哪里减少。当福特T型车发布的时候，所有的数额都被调整为2007年的价格，福特T型汽车是1万9千7百美元。大众汽车是11333美元。英国汽车是大约1万1千美元。Nano是，2千美元。这就是为什么他们真正的开创了一个新的模范，这就让那些从前不能梦想坐在车中的人，那些把一家人都载在摩托车上的人，可以开始梦想他们坐在汽车里。而这些梦想也得到了实现。这是一张照片，照片里有一个屋子，一个司机和一辆汽车，摄于我家附近。司机的名字叫Naran。他买了属于自己的Nano。你可以看到，这为他创造了一片空地，让他可以停靠属于他自己的汽车。更重要的是，他们在他脑海中创造了一个空间，让他相信 “没错，我的司机是驾驶自己的汽车来，而且停在这里。”这就是为什么我称之为“变革创新”。我们谈及的不仅仅是技术上的创新，还是一种社会创新。
en:And what happenedwas that — more from less —you can see how much more for how much less.When the Model T was launched —and this is, by the way, all the figuresthat are adjusted to 2007 dollar prices —Model T was 19,700 by Ford.Volkswagon was 11,333.And British Motor was around 11,000.And Nano was, bang, 2,000 dollars.This is whyyou startedactually a new paradigm shift,where the same peoplewho could not dream of sitting in a car,who were carrying their entire family in a scooter,started dreaming of being in a car.And those dreams are getting fulfilled.This is a photographof a house and a driver and a carnear my own home.The driver&#39;s name is Naran.He has bought his own Nano.And you can see, there is a physical spacethat has been created for him,parking that car, along with the owner&#39;s car,but more importantly, they&#39;ve createda space in their mind that&quot;Yes, my chauffeur is going to come in his own car and park it.&quot;And that&#39;s why I call it a transformational innovation.It is not just technological,it is social innovation that we talk about.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:所以，先生女士们，这个著名的，从更少中获得更多的主题会越来越重要。我还记得大约一年半前，第一次到澳大利亚演讲这个主题的时候，我被他们国家学术界授予了奖学金。令人难以置信的是，在40年里，我是第一个被授予奖学金的印度人。我的演讲的标题因此从“甘地的印度变革”变成“印度的创新”。我把演讲名称简短为“甘地工程”就是为了更多人们知道并且得益于“甘地工程”。根据我的判断，甘地工程即将推动世界前进，即将为人们创造不一样的世界，不仅仅是一些人，而是所有人。为了那些不幸失去双脚的人们，让我从汽车的流动性，转移到谈谈个人的流动性。这里是一个美国人和他的儿子，这位先生用假肢行动。这双假肢花费多少钱？2万美金。当然，这双假肢的设计只能适用于行走在完好无缺的的行人道或路上。
en:And that is where, ladies and gentlemen,this famous themeof getting more from less for morebecomes important.I remember talking about this for the first time in Australia,about one and a half years ago,when their academy honored me with a fellowship.And unbelievably, in 40 years,I was the first Indian to be honored.And the title of my talkwas therefore &quot;Indian innovationfrom Gandhi to Gandhian engineering.&quot;And I titled this more from less for more and more peopleas Gandhian engineering.And Gandhian engineering, in my judgment,is the one which is going to take the world forward,is going to make a difference,not just for a few, but for everyone.Let me move from mobility in a car to individual mobilityfor those unfortunateswho have lost their legs.Here is an American citizen and his sonhaving an artificial foot.What is its price? 20,000 dollars.And of course, these feet are so designedthat they can walk only onsuch perfect pavement or roads.
时间： 9:09
zh-cn:很遗憾的是，在印度情况就不一样了。你可以看到人们赤着脚在不方便的道路上行走，有时是在沼泽地上，等等等等。更重要的是，他们不仅仅是走这么远的路去工作，也不仅仅是骑行去工作，他们还以骑行为一种工作，正如你可以从这里看到。还有，他们还需要因为工作缘故而攀爬。你必须为这些情况设计一双假肢。这当然是一个挑战。40亿人口，他们的收入不到两美金一天。如果你提及一双2万美金的鞋子，就相当于1万天的收入。他们是不可能买下的。因此，你应该想想替代方法。
en:Unfortunately, that&#39;s not the case in India.You can see him walk barefooton an awkward land, sometimes in a marshy land,and so on and so forth.More importantly,they not only walk far to work,and not only do they cycle to work,but they cycle for work, as you can see here.And they climb up for their work.You have to design an artificial foot for such conditions.A challenge, of course.Four billion people, their incomes are less then two dollars a day.And if you talk about a 20,000-dollar shoe,you&#39;re talking about 10,000 days of income.You just don&#39;t have it.And therefore, you ought to look at alternatives.
时间： 9:47
zh-cn:这促成了Jaipur Foot （斋浦尔足）在印度的诞生。它有一个革命性的假肢装修和配送系统，快捷的模型和组件，实现了现场订制的假肢设置。你可以在一个小时之内就装上它，而其他同样的假肢则需要一天的时间，甚至更长。采用高密度聚乙烯管制作的外加热插座而不是由加热板制作而成的。独特的高脚踝设计和仿真外观，新潮而又具有好的功用性。我接下来展示一下这双假肢是怎么样的，和怎样使用。（配乐）看看，他可以跳起来。你可以看到它可以承受怎样的压力。
en:And that is how Jaipur Foot was created in India.It had a revolutionary prosthetic fitment and delivery system,a quick molding and modular components,enabling custom-made, on-the-spot limb fitments.You could feel it actually in an hour, by the way,whereas the equivalent other feettook something like a day, as so on.Outer socket made by using heated high-density polyethylene pipes,rather than using heated sheets.And unique high-ankle design and human-like looks,[unclear] and functions.And I like to show how it looksand how it works.(Music)See, he jumps. You can see what stress it must have.
时间：10:36
zh-cn:（文字：......任何人使用膝下假肢都可以做到。假肢以上，是的，会有点困难......“觉得痛吗？不......一点也不痛。”他可以四分30秒跑完一千米......）
en:(Text: ... any person with a below the knee limb could do this.... above the limb, yes, it would be difficult ...&quot;Did it hurt?&quot;&quot;No ... not at all.&quot;... he can run a kilometer in four minutes and 30 seconds ...)
时间：10:56
zh-cn:四分30秒跑完一千米。（鼓掌）这就是所有关于它的一切。因此时代周刊也关注了这双28美金的“双腿”。（鼓掌）一个非常厉害的故事。
en:One kilometer in four minutes and 30 seconds.(Applause)So that&#39;s what it is all about.And therefore Time took noticeof this 28-dollar foot, basically.(Applause)An incredible story.
时间：11:23
zh-cn:让我们换到讨论别的事情。我一直在讲从花费更少中获得更多。让我们来讲一下健康。我们已经讲了汽车和假肢，让我们讲一下保健。在保健的领域里正在发生什么事情呢？你知道的，总有些新型疾病需要新型的药物来治愈。要是你看看10年前以及现在的药物发展，发生了什么？10年前，药物的发展花费了2.5亿。现在的花费是15亿美金。从一个分子开始到药物最终发放到市场，经过所有的人类和动物测试，以前所需的时间是10年，而现在是15年。我们有因为花费了更多的金钱和时间而得到更多的药物吗？很抱歉，没有。过去我们拥有40，现在下降到30.所以，事实上我们从花费更多中获得的却是越来越少人能拥有的更少。为什么越来越少人拥有呢，因为非常的昂贵。所以很少人能够承担得起。
en:Let&#39;s move on to something else.I&#39;ve been talking about getting more from less for more.Let&#39;s move to health.We&#39;ve talked about mobility and the rest of it, let&#39;s talk about health.What&#39;s happening in the area of health?You know, you have new diseases that require new drugs.And if you look at the drug development 10 years ago and now,what has happened?10 years ago, it used to cost about a quarter billion.Today it costs 1.5 billion dollars.Time taken for moving a molecule to marketplace,after all the human and animal testing,was 10 years, now it is 15 years.Are you getting more drugs because you are spending more time and more money?No, I&#39;m sorry.We used to have 40, now they have come down to 30.So actually we are getting less from morefor less and less people.Why less and less people? Because it is so expensive,so very few will be able to basically afford that.
时间：12:14
zh-cn:我们来看看一个例子。疥疮是一种非常可怕的皮肤病。治愈这个疾病所需的费用是2万美金。1千美金的抗体皮下注射，顺便提一句，20次。发展治愈方法的时间，是10年，以及700万美金。让我们从花费更少为更多的人获得更多的精神开始设定一些目标。举个例子，我们不想要2万美金，我们没有。我们可以用100块美金做到这个事情吗？发展的时间，不是10年。我们赶时间。5年把它做到。成本，300万美金。对不起，我不能支付比10万美金再多的了。看起来绝对大胆。绝对可笑。
en:Let us just take an example.Psoriasis is very dreadfuldisease of the skin.The cost of treatment, 20,000 dollars.1,000-dollar antibody injections under the skin, by the way,and 20 of them.Time for development — it took around 10 yearsand 700 million dollars.Let&#39;s start in the spiritof more from less and more for moreand start putting some targets.For example, we don&#39;t want 20,000 dollars; we don&#39;t have it.Can we do it [for] 100 dollars?Time for development, not 10 years.We are in a hurry. Five years.Cost of development — 300 million dollars.Sorry. I can&#39;t spend more than 10 million dollars.Looks absolutely audacious.Looks absolutely ridiculous.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:你知道吗？然而，在印度却实现了。这些目标都在印度实现了。他们是怎样做到的呢.....弗兰西斯·培根先生曾经说过，“当你希望达到一些从来没有被实现过的结果，幻想着用被用过的方法而达到是不明智的。”也因为这样，那个把分子放进老鼠体内，再放到人体内的标准流程没有达到这些效果 —但上亿的美金却已经花掉了。印度人的聪明是使用传统的知识，但以科学验证使这个旅程从人到老鼠再到人，而不是正如我们所知道的那样，从分子到老鼠再到人体。所以这就是差别。而且你可以看到这种传统医学，现代医药和现代科学的结合。我9年前推行了一个大项目名为CSIR™这个项目不仅仅为疥疮病而设立，还有癌症和各种其他的疾病，改变了整个模式。而且你可以看到印度疥疮治愈的突破是因为相反地使用了不同的方法而达到的。你可以从图中看到治愈之前和之后的不同。这就是真正的从花费更少中让越来越多的人获得更多。因为它们都是可以承担的治疗。
en:You know something? This has been achieved in India.These targets have been achieved in India.And how they have been achieved ...Sir Francis Bacon once said,&quot;When you wish to achieve resultsthat have not been achieved before,it is an unwise fancy to thinkthat they can be achieved by using methodsthat have been used before.&quot;And therefore, the standard process,where you develop a molecule, put it into mice, into men,are not yielding those results —the billions of dollars that have been spent.The Indian clevernesswas using its traditional knowledge,however, scientifically validating itand making that journey from men to mice to men,not molecule to mice to men, you know.And that is how this difference has come.And you can see this blendingof traditional medicine, modern medicine, modern science.I launched a big program[unclear] CSIR about nine years ago.He is giving us not just for Psoriasis,for cancer and a whole range of things, changing the whole paradigm.And you can see this Indian Psoriasis breakthroughobtained by this reverse form of [unclear]by doing things differently.You can see before treatment and after treatment.This is really getting more from less for more and more people,because these are all affordable treatments now.
时间：14:05
zh-cn:让我提醒你们一下甘地曾经说过的话。他说过，“地球是可以足够地提供每个人所需的，但不是每个人所贪的。”所以他传达给我们的这个信息就是你必须从越来越少中获得更多，以致于你可以与越来越多的人们分享。不仅仅是当下的这一代人，而且是未来的人们。他还说过，“我会为所有造福全民的科学发明嘉奖。”所以他是在传达一个越来越多人受益，不仅仅是一小撮人。也因此，女士们先生们，这就是主题，从更少中让更多人得到更多。而且你要知道，这不是从小幅度的减少中获得小幅度的增加。而是低成本，这都是关于超低成本。我们不能认为，这个1万美金的治疗就可以因为你穷而我给你降价到9千。对不起，这没有用。这必须是100或者200美金。这可能吗？我一直都在为各种各样的理由创造可能性。所以当你谈论低成本的时候，你是在谈论超低成本。你不是单纯地讨论负担能力，而是超级的负担能力。因为这些每天收入不多于2美金的4亿人口。你不是单纯地讨论专属的创新，而是包容性的创新。也因此，你不是在讨论渐进性创新，而是破坏性创新。这个主张就是你必须从一个完全不一样的方法想问题。我还要增加一点，这不仅仅是从花费更少中让更多人得到更多，还是越来越多人甚至是全世界都在为这个目标努力。
en:Let me just remind youof what Mahatma Gandhi had said.He had said, &quot;Earth provides enoughto satisfy every man&#39;s need, but not every man&#39;s greed.&quot;So the message he was giving uswas you must get more from less and less and lessso that you can share it for more and more people,not only the current generation,but the future generations.And he also said, &quot;I would prize every invention of sciencemade for the benefit for all.&quot;So he was giving you the message that you must have it for more and more people,not just a few people.And therefore, ladies and gentlemen,this is the theme, getting morefrom less for more.And mind you,it is not getting just a little more for just a little less.It&#39;s not about low cost.It&#39;s about ultra-low cost.You cannot say it&#39;s a mere treatment 10,000 dollars,but because you are poor I&#39;ll give it for 9,000.Sorry, it doesn&#39;t work. You have to give it for 100 dollars, 200 dollars.Is it possible? It has been made possible, by the way,for certain other different reasons.So you are not talking about low cost, you are talking about ultra-low cost.You are not talking about affordability,you are talking about extreme affordability.Because of the four billion people whose income is under two dollars a day.You&#39;re not talking exclusive innovation.You&#39;re talking about inclusive innovation.And therefore, you&#39;re not talking about incremental innovation,you&#39;re talking about disruptive innovation.The ideas have to be suchthat you think in completely different terms.And I would also add,it is not only getting more from less for moreby more and more people, the whole world working for it.
时间：15:39
zh-cn:那天我看到一个突破，感到非常感动。举个例子，婴儿保温箱。在非洲是没有的。在印度的村落里也没有。然后，婴儿就会死去。婴儿保温箱需要花费2千美金。然而却出现了一个25美金的婴儿保温箱，提供了了这个已被创造的性能。由谁来创造呢？是一群来自斯坦福大学的学生，基本上是从一个非常廉价的项目中做到的。他们的心是在一个正确的位置，就好像Ratan Tata。不仅仅是创新，同情和热情 —在心中怜悯在腹腔中热情。这就是我们想要创造的新世界。所以这就是为什么这个信息叫“甘地工程”。
en:I was very touched when I saw a breakthrough the other day.You know, incubators for infants, for example.They&#39;re not available in Africa.They&#39;re not available in Indian villages.And infants die.And incubator costs 2,000 dollars.And there&#39;s a 25-dollar incubatorgiving that performance that had been created.And by whom?By young students from Standford Universityon an extreme affordability project that they had, basically.Their heart is in the right place, like Ratan Tata.It&#39;s not just innovation, compassion and passion —compassion in the heart and passion in the belly.That&#39;s the new world that we want to create.And that is why the message is that of Gandhian engineering.
时间：16:18
zh-cn:女士们先生们，我希望时间到之前结束。我也害怕那18分钟，我还有一分半钟。这个信息，最后的信息就是印度为世界提供了一个伟大的礼物。是什么？在20世纪里，印度给世界提供了甘地。而21世纪的礼物，一个对全世界都很重要的礼物，无论是不是经济崩溃，无论是不是气候变化 —你能想到的任何问题，是从花费更少中让越来越多人得到更多，不仅仅是当前的一代人，而且也是未来的人们。这只可能来自甘地工程。所以女士们先生们，我非常荣庆地宣布在21世纪，这份来自印度带给全世界的礼物是甘地工程。
en:Ladies and gentlemen, I&#39;d like to end before time.I was also afraid of those 18 minutes.I&#39;ve still one and a half to go.The message, the final message, is this:India gave a great gift to the world.What was that?[In the] 20th century, we gave Gandhi to the world.The 21st century gift,which is very, very important for the whole world,whether it is global economic meltdown,whether it is climate change —any problem that you talk aboutis gaining more from less for more and more —not only the current generations,for the future generations.And that can come only from Gandhian engineering.So ladies and gentlemen, I&#39;m very happy to announce,this gift of the 21st centuryto the world from India,Gandhian engineering.
时间：17:03
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:11
zh-cn:Lakshmi Pratury:谢谢，Mashelkar博士。（讲者：非常谢谢你）
en:Lakshmi Pratury: Thank you, Dr. Mashelkar. (R.A. Mashelkar: Thank you very much.)
时间：17:14
zh-cn:LP：有一个简单的问题想要问你。当你只是这所学校里的一名小男孩的时候，你有什么想法，比方说你将来会成为什么人？你觉得是什么驱使你？是你曾经有的一个愿景吗？是什么驱动你？
en:LP: A quick question for you.Now, when you were a young boy in this school,what were your thoughts, like what did you think you could become?What do you think that drove you?Was there a vision you had? What is it that drove you?
时间：17:27
zh-cn:RAM：让我来告诉你一个驱动我的小故事，它改变了我的一生。我记得，我去一所贫穷的学校是因为我妈妈不能在限定的时间里，筹到所需的21卢布，相当于2分之1的美元。那是一所中学。老实说，是一所贫穷的学校以及富裕的老师。其中一个教我们物理。有一天，他带我们到太阳下尝试让我们找到一个凸透镜的焦距。那个凸透镜在这里，一张纸在这里。 他从上到下的移动。然后有一个亮点在这里。然后他说，“这就是焦距。”然后持续着这个动作一阵子。接着这张纸烧着了。当纸在燃烧的时候，他跟我说，“Mashelkar，就像这样，如果你不分散你的能量，如果你集中精力，你可以实现世界上任何东西。”这给我带来了一个很伟大的信息：专注然后就能达成。我说，“哇，科学真伟大，我以后要成为一名科学家。”更重要的是，专注然后你能达成。这个信息，坦白说，是对今天的社会非常有价值的。
en:RAM: I&#39;ll tell you a story that drove me, that transformed my life.I remember, I went to a poor school,because my mother could not gather the 21 rupees,that half a dollar that was requiredwithin the stipulated time.It was [unclear] high school.But it was a poor school with rich teachers, honestly.And one of them was [unclear] who taught us physics.One day he took us out into the sunand tried to show us how to findthe focal length of a convex lens.The lens was here. The piece of paper was there. He moved it up and down.And there was a bright spot up there.And then he said, &quot;This is the focal length.&quot;But then he held it for a little while, Lakshmi.And then the paper burned.When the paper burned, for some reason he turned to me,and he said, &quot;Mashelkar, like this,if you do not diffuse your energies,if you focus your energies,you can achieve anything in the world.&quot;That gave me a great message: focus and you can achieve.I said, &quot;Whoa, science is so wonderful,I have to become a scientist.&quot;But more importantly, focus and you can achieve.And that message, very frankly,is valuable for society today.
时间：18:35
zh-cn:焦距能做什么呢？这是一条平行线，是太阳光。平行线的性质就是永远不相遇。凸透镜做什么呢？它让平行线相遇。这是凸透镜的领导作用。你知道今天的领导做什么吗？凹长度。他们让这些平行线隔得更远所以我从凸透镜的引领作用学到了教训。当我在国家化学实验室和科学工业研究委员会的时候，有40个实验室，但其中2个互相不理睬对方，我就把他们团结一齐。目前，我是全球研究联盟的主席，云集了来自9个国家的6万名科学家，从印度到美国。我在尝试建立一个全球性的团队，这个团队会为世界所面临的全球性大挑战而工作。这就是那堂课。 这就是灵感的启发时刻。
en:What does that focal length do?It has parallel lines, which are sun rays.And the property of parallel linesis that they never meet.What does that convex lens do?It makes them meet.This is convex lens leadership.You know what today&#39;s leadership is doing? Concave length.They divide them farther.So I learned the lessonof convex lens leadership from that.And when I was at National Chemical Laboratory [unclear].When I was at Council of Scientific Industry Research —40 laboratories — when two laboratories were not talking to each other,I would [unclear].And currently I&#39;m president of Global Research Alliance,60,000 scientists in nine counties, right from India to the U.S.I&#39;m trying to build a global team,which will look at the global grand challenges that the world is facing.That was the lesson. That was the inspirational moment.
时间：19:24
zh-cn:LP：非常谢谢你。（RAM：谢谢你）
en:LP: Thank you very much. (RAM: Thank you.)
时间：19:27
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
