时间： 0:11
zh-cn:如果有人请你用三个词来概括你的名声，你会选用哪三个？别人会怎样去评价你在不同情况下所展现出的判断力，知识，和行为？今天我想和大家一起探讨，为什么这个问题的答案在当今具有深远的意义。在当今社会，名誉是人们最宝贵的资产。
en:So if someone asked youfor the three words that would sum upyour reputation, what would you say?How would people describe your judgment,your knowledge, your behaviors, in different situations?Today I&#39;d like to explore with youwhy the answer to this questionwill become profoundly importantin an age where reputation will be your most valuable asset.
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:首先，我想给大家介绍一个人。他的人生曾被一个特别的市场改变。这个市场是由名声推动的。从2008年开始，Sebastian Sandys在网站Airbnb上面作为一个住家向游客提供早餐和住宿。在我们最近的交谈中，一起喝了几杯茶之后，他告诉我招待来自世界各地的客人大大丰富了他的生活。他和他名叫Squeak的猫住在一个18 世纪哨所模样的房子里。曾有50 多个人在那里借宿。我刚刚提到Squeak，是因为Sebastian的第一个客人在他家看见了一只硕大的老鼠跑过厨房。她对Sebastian说，她会在Airbnb网站上给这个房子差评，除非他选择养只猫。所以为了保护他的名声，Sebastian买来了Squeak。
en:I&#39;d like to start by introducing you to someonewhose life has been changed by a marketplacefueled by reputation.Sebastian Sandys has been a bed and breakfast hoston Airbnb since 2008.I caught up with him recently, where, over the courseof several cups of tea, he told me howhosting guests from all over the worldhas enriched his life.More than 50 people have come to stay in the 18th-centurywatchhouse he lives in with his cat, Squeak.Now, I mention Squeak because Sebastian&#39;s first guesthappened to see a rather large mouse run across the kitchen,and she promised that she would refrain from leavinga bad review on one condition: he got a cat.And so Sebastian bought Squeak to protect his reputation.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:我想你们许多人知道Airbnb，它是个人对个人的房屋租赁平台，有多余空间的房主发布自己的房屋信息，有需要的人可在上面预订。Airbnb用户遍布了超过192 个国家。出租的房间种类有普通的多余房间和度假屋，也有各种奇妙类型的房屋，比如树屋，圆锥形帐篷，飞机机库，雪屋等等。如果你不喜欢住酒店，你可以住在5000美元一晚的城堡里。Airbnb这个例子说明科技正在那些我们未曾想到的领域上创造出崭新的市场。
en:Now, as many of you know, Airbnb is a peer-to-peermarketplace that matches people who have space to rentwith people who are looking for a place to stayin over 192 countries.The places being rented out are things that you mightexpect, like spare rooms and holiday homes,but part of the magic is the unique placesthat you can now access: treehouses, teepees,airplane hangars, igloos.If you don&#39;t like the hotel, there&#39;s a castle down the roadthat you can rent for 5,000 dollars a night.It&#39;s a fantastic example of how technologyis creating a marketfor things that never had a marketplace before.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:现在请大家看这些巴黎的热点地图，这里你可以看到这个市场是如何疯狂增长的。这幅图片是从 2008 年开始的。粉色点表示可以租赁的房屋。甚至仅四年以前，让陌生人留宿在你的家理看上去就像一个疯狂的想法。现在，是在 2010 年的同一视图。和现在，2012 年。在巴黎几乎每个主要的街道上有 一个Airbnb 住家。现在正在发生的，即是人们正在认识到技术的力量可以让闲置的空间得以利用，让各种类型的的资产价值得以体现：从技能，到空间，到物质财产，以前所未有的方式和规模。它是一个被称为协作消费的经济和文化现象，并且，通过它，像Sebastian一样的人们正在成为微型企业家。他们从所拥有的资产里挖掘出了创造财富的方法。
en:Now let me show you these heat maps of Paristo see how insanely fast it&#39;s growing.This image here is from 2008.The pink dots represent host properties.Even four years ago, letting strangers stay in your homeseemed like a crazy idea.Now the same view in 2010.And now, 2012.There is an Airbnb host on almost every main street in Paris.Now, what&#39;s happening here is people are realizingthe power of technology to unlock the idling capacityand value of all kinds of assets,from skills to spaces to material possessions,in ways and on a scale never possible before.It&#39;s an economy and culture called collaborative consumption,and, through it, people like Sebastianare becoming micro-entrepreneurs.They&#39;re empowered to make money and save moneyfrom their existing assets.
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:但在背后真正支撑像Airbnb这样的协作消费市场的不是库存或钱。是利用技术的力量建立陌生人之间的信任。Airbnb的这一特点在去年夏天伦敦暴乱时，真正影响到了Sebastian。他大约在九点醒来，然后查看了电子邮箱，接着他看到了许多信息都来确认他是否安然无事。他曾经来自世界各地的客人知道了距离他家很近的暴乱，于是都来问他需要什么帮助。Sebastian其实对我说，他说，&quot;在十三个客人与我联系之后我母亲才打来电话。&quot;（笑声）
en:But the real magic and the secret source behindcollaborative consumption marketplaces like Airbnbisn&#39;t the inventory or the money.It&#39;s using the power of technology to build trustbetween strangers.This side of Airbnb really hit home to Sebastian last summerduring the London riots.He woke up around 9, and he checked his emailand he saw a bunch of messages all asking himif he was okay.Former guests from around the world had seen thatthe riots were happening just down the street, and wantedto check if he needed anything.Sebastian actually said to me, he said, &quot;Thirteen former guestscontacted me before my own mother rang.&quot; (Laughter)
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:现在，这段小插曲联系到了我真正为何对协作消费有巨大热情的原因了。并且联系到为什么，当我我完成了我的书之后，我决定我要试着推广这一全球运动。因为这种协作消费的核心，是关于力量的赋予。它赋予人们力量来进行有意义的互动与联系，这些联系能让我们能够重新找回一种我们在发展道路上已经遗失的人性，通过像 Airbnb，Kickstarter，Etsy这样的建立在个人关系上的市场而不是那些空洞的网络交易。
en:Now, this little anecdote gets to the heart of whyI&#39;m really passionate about collaborative consumption,and why, after I finished my book, I decidedI&#39;m going to try and spread this into a global movement.Because at its core, it&#39;s about empowerment.It&#39;s about empowering people to make meaningful connections,connections that are enabling us to rediscovera humanness that we&#39;ve lost somewhere along the way,by engaging in marketplaces like Airbnb, like Kickstarter,like Etsy, that are built on personal relationshipsversus empty transactions.
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:现在具有讽刺意味的是，这些创意实际上正在带我们回归到旧市场原则和协作行为里去，这些在我们所有人的习惯里根深蒂固的原则与行为。他们都只是以不同方式被重新塑造了，跟上这个社交网络的年代。我们确实开始意识到我们用网络连接了我们的世界来共享、 交换、 租赁、 易货或贸易几乎所有东西。我们在 WhipCar上分享我们的汽车，我们在 Spinlister上分享自行车，在Loosecubes上分享办公室在 Landshare 上分享我们的花园。我们通过Zopa和Lending Club从陌生人那里借钱，或是把自己的钱借给他们。我们用Skillshare来分享一切经验，从如何做寿司，到怎样写编码，我们甚至在 DogVacay 上分享宠物。现在，欢迎你来到协作消费的精彩世界这使我们能够将供与求以更民主的方式匹配起来。
en:Now the irony is that these ideas are actually taking us backto old market principles and collaborative behaviorsthat are hard-wired in all of us.They&#39;re just being reinvented in ways that are relevantfor the Facebook age.We&#39;re literally beginning to realize that we have wiredour world to share, swap, rent, barter or tradejust about anything. We&#39;re sharing our cars on WhipCar,our bikes on Spinlister, our offices on Loosecubes,our gardens on Landshare. We&#39;re lending and borrowingmoney from strangers on Zopa and Lending Club.We are trading lessons on everything from sushi-makingto coding on Skillshare,and we&#39;re even sharing our pets on DogVacay.Now welcome to the wonderful world of collaborative consumptionthat&#39;s enabling us to match wants with havesin more democratic ways.
时间： 5:14
zh-cn:现在，协作消费正在开始改变我们看待供求关系的方式，但它也造成价值观地重大改变，与消费攀比心理不同的是，人们正在通过消费来了解与自己相似的人群。但如此快速发展的关键原因在于科技的每次新进展都提高了效率和社会信任度使共享变得更容易、 更方便。
en:Now, collaborative consumption is creating the startof a transformation in the way we think about supply and demand,but it&#39;s also a part of a massive value shift underway,where instead of consuming to keep up with the Joneses,people are consuming to get to know the Joneses.But the key reason why it&#39;s taking off now so fastis because every new advancement of technologyincreases the efficiency and the social glue of trustto make sharing easier and easier.
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:我分析过成千个这样的市场，信任度和效率始终是两个最重要的因素。让我举一个例子。认识一下Chris Mok，他今年 46 岁了，我敢打赌他有着SuperRabbit 里最好的职称。四年前，Chris丢了工作，不幸的是，作为一个在梅西百货的艺术品买家，和许多人一样，他在这个经济衰退期间艰难地寻找新的工作。然后他碰巧偶然发现一个TaskRabbit发布的招聘信息。
en:Now, I&#39;ve looked at thousands of these marketplaces,and trust and efficiency are always the critical ingredients.Let me give you an example.Meet 46-year-old Chris Mok, who has, I bet,the best job title here of SuperRabbit.Now, four years ago, Chris lost his job, unfortunately,as an art buyer at Macy&#39;s, and like so many people,he struggled to find a new one during the recession.And then he happened to stumble across a post aboutTaskRabbit.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:TaskRabbit 背后的故事，与许多精彩的故事一样开始，它和一只很可爱的名为Kobe的狗有关。故事发生在2008年2月，Leah和她的丈夫在等出租车准备外出就餐，那时候Kobe一阵小跑到他们面前，还流着口水。他们意识到狗粮快吃完了，Kevin不得不取消了出租车服务，开始在雪地里跋涉。后来那天晚上，两个自称科技爱好者开始谈论它将是如何酷，如果存在一种像eBay一样的东西来帮人做些杂活儿。六个月后，Leah辞去了工作，然后TaskRabbit平台诞生了。当时，她并没有意识到她其实开创了一个更大的平台，她之后命名其为服务网络。它的本质是如何使用我们的网络关系来完成现实中的工作。
en:Now, the story behind TaskRabbit starts like so manygreat stories with a very cute dog by the name of Kobe.Now what happened was, in February 2008,Leah and her husband were waiting for a cab to take themout for dinner, when Kobe came trotting up to themand he was salivating with saliva.They realized they&#39;d run out of dog food.Kevin had to cancel the cab and trudge out in the snow.Now, later that evening, the two self-confessed tech geeksstarting talking about how cool it would be if some kind ofeBay for errands existed.Six months later, Leah quit her job,and TaskRabbit was born.At the time, she didn&#39;t realize that she was actually hittingon a bigger idea she later called service networking.It&#39;s essentially about how we use our online relationshipsto get things done in the real world.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:现在 TaskRabbit 的工作方式是，人们将他们他们想做的事外包给他人，标出自己愿意付的价格，然后审批“Rabbits”（来完成任务的人）来完成他们想要做的事。一个总共四阶段的严格的面试被设计了出来，用以来找到可以成为非常优秀的个人助理的人，并淘汰那些不可靠的“Rabbits”。现在，全美国有超过 4,000 位“Rabbits”，还有 5000以上的人在等候名单里。
en:Now the way TaskRabbit works is, people outsourcethe tasks that they want doing, name the pricethey&#39;re willing to pay, and then vetted Rabbitsbid to run the errand.Yes, there&#39;s actually a four-stage, rigorous interview processthat&#39;s designed to find the people that would makegreat personal assistants and weed out the dodgy Rabbits.Now, there&#39;s over 4,000 Rabbits across the United Statesand 5,000 more on the waiting list.
时间： 7:42
zh-cn:现在正在发布的任务都是你会想到的，包括做家务，或者去超市买点东西。我后来发现大概有12,500笔脏衣服通过TaskRabbit已被清理和折好了。不过我最喜欢的是，有一个每天被张贴超过一百次的任务，是我们很多人都觉得做起来很痛苦的事：是的，就是组装宜家家具。（笑声）（掌声）这真是太有创意了。现在，我们或许觉得好笑，但Chris在这里实际上每月工资达到了5000 美元纯粹通过帮他周围的人完成这些杂事儿。70 %这样的新劳动力曾经失业或者是就业不足的。我认为 TaskRabbit 和协作消费的其他例子真的是妙不可言。
en:Now the tasks being posted are things that you mightexpect, like help with household choresor doing some supermarket runs.I actually learned the other day that 12 and a half thousandloads of laundry have been cleaned and foldedthrough TaskRabbit.But I love that the number one task posted,over a hundred times a day, is something that many of ushave felt the pain of doing:yes, assembling Ikea furniture. (Laughter) (Applause)It&#39;s brilliant. Now, we may laugh, but Chris hereis actually making up to 5,000 dollars a monthrunning errands around his life.And 70 percent of this new labor forcewere previously unemployed or underemployed.I think TaskRabbit and other examples of collaborative consumptionare like lemonade stands on steroids. They&#39;re just brilliant.
时间： 8:37
zh-cn:现在，当你想想，多么神奇在过去的 20 年中，我们已经发展到从信任人们在线共享信息到把我们的信用卡信息交出来我们现在进入第三个信任潮流：连接可信赖的陌生人来创建所有类型人为动力的市场。我碰巧看到这个很棒的研究皮尤研究中心本周公布的活跃的 Facebook 用户较非互联网用户有高出2倍的几率认为人是值得信赖的。网络信任将改变我们面对面信任彼此的方式。
en:Now, when you think about it, it&#39;s amazing, right,that over the past 20 years, we&#39;ve evolvedfrom trusting people online to share informationto trusting to handing over our credit card information,and now we&#39;re entering the third trust wave:connecting trustworthy strangers to create all kindsof people-powered marketplaces.I actually came across this fascinating studyby the Pew Center this week that revealedthat an active Facebook user is three times as likelyas a non-Internet user to believe that most people are trustworthy.Virtual trust will transform the way we trust one anotherface to face.
时间： 9:19
zh-cn:现在，我乐观的同时，我可是个乐观主义者，也有一份恰如其量的谨慎，或者，也有迫切需求去解决一些紧迫的、 复杂的问题。如何确保我们的数码身份反映我们真实世界的身份？我们希望两者一致吗？我们如何在线模仿面对面建立信任？我们如何让那些在某社区有不良表现的人们不会在不同的幌子下做同样的事？企业往往以类似的方式使用一些信用评级来决定是否给你一个手机计划，或按揭评级，那些取决于陌生人之间交易的市场需要某种设备，让你知道，Sebastian和Chris是值得信赖的，那个设备就是名声。
en:Now, with all of my optimism, and I am an optimist,comes a healthy dose of caution, or rather, an urgent needto address some pressing, complex questions.How to ensure our digital identities reflect ourreal world identities? Do we want them to be the same?How do we mimic the way trust is built face-to-face online?How do we stop people who&#39;ve behaved badlyin one community doing so under a different guise?In a similar way that companies often use some kind ofcredit rating to decide whether to give you a mobile plan,or the rate of a mortgage, marketplaces that dependon transactions between relative strangersneed some kind of device to let you know that Sebastianand Chris are good eggs,and that device is reputation.
时间：10:06
zh-cn:信誉测量社会信任你的程度。让我们只需看看Chris。您可以看到 200 多人给予他5分满分的评分里平均分超过4.99。关于他的工作评价有超过20页形容他超级有好和快速，他已达到的水平最高级别，25使他成为 SuperRabbit（超级兔子）。现在 — — （笑声）—我爱这个词，SuperRabbit（超级兔子）。有趣的是，Chris已经注意到是，随着他的名声上升，他的中标几率也以及他的收费随之上升。换句话说，对于 SuperRabbits（超级兔子），名声具有现实世界中的价值。
en:Reputation is the measurement of how much a community trusts you.Let&#39;s just take a look at Chris.You can see that over 200 people have given himan average rating over 4.99 out of 5.There are over 20 pages of reviews of his workdescribing him as super-friendly and fast,and he&#39;s reached level 25, the highest level,making him a SuperRabbit.Now — (Laughter) — I love that word, SuperRabbit.And interestingly, what Chris has noted is that as his reputationhas gone up, so has his chances of winning a bidand how much he can charge.In other words, for SuperRabbits, reputationhas a real world value.
时间：10:46
zh-cn:现在，我知道你可能会想。嗯，这不是什么新鲜事。只要想想那些在eBay上的出色卖家或亚马逊网站的星评级。今天，两者区别在于，我们做的每次贸易我们留下的每个评论，我们标识的人，我们获得的徽章，我们留下的名声的踪迹知道我们可以如何被人和不被人信任。而却这不只是广度，名声数据数量正令人震惊。想想这个：在过去仅六个月 Airbnb房间被订500万次Carpooling.com 上分享了 3000 万次游乐项目。今年价值 20 亿美金的贷款将通过对等贷款平台完成。名声数据将增加数以百万条记录我们表现的好坏
en:Now, I know what you might be thinking.Well, this isn&#39;t anything new. Just think of power sellerson eBay or star ratings on Amazon.The difference today is that, with every trade we make,comment we leave, person we flag, badge we earn,we leave a reputation trailof how well we can and can&#39;t be trusted.And it&#39;s not just the breadth but the volumeof reputation data out there that is staggering.Just consider this: Five million nights have been bookedon Airbnb in the past six months alone.30 million rides have been shared on Carpooling.com.This year, two billion dollars worth of loanswill go through peer-to-peer lending platforms.This adds up to millions of pieces of reputation dataon how well we behave or misbehave.
时间：11:35
zh-cn:捕获及联系我们在不同地方留下的信息痕迹这是一个巨大的挑战，但我们必须把它弄明白。像Sebastian这样的名声良好的人，他们不是应该拥有自己的名声数据吗？难道他个人在airbnb上建立的名声不是该跟随着他从一个社区到另一个社区吗？我的意思是，比方说他开始在亚马逊网站上卖二手书，为什么他要从头开始？这有点像我从纽约搬到悉尼。这很可笑。我不能办移动电话计划的原因是因为我的信用记录没有跟随着我一起搬迁。我本质上不存在他们的体系中。
en:Now, capturing and correlating the trails of informationthat we leave in different places is a massive challenge,but one we&#39;re being asked to figure out.What the likes of Sebastian are starting to rightfully askis, shouldn&#39;t they own their reputation data?Shouldn&#39;t the reputation that he&#39;s personally investedon building on Airbnb mean that it should travel with himfrom one community to another?What I mean by this is, say he started selling second-handbooks on Amazon. Why should he have to start from scratch?It&#39;s a bit like when I moved from New York to Sydney.It was ridiculous. I couldn&#39;t get a mobile phone planbecause my credit history didn&#39;t travel with me.I was essentially a ghost in the system.
时间：12:19
zh-cn:我不是在建议下个阶段的名声经济因该增加多项评级增加某种空洞的评分。人们的生活够复杂了，谁还想那么做？我也想说明白这不是说要一下子增加贴文，赞和好友。这些东西反映的是影响力，不是显示我们值得信赖的行为。
en:Now I&#39;m not suggesting that the next stageof the reputation economy is aboutadding up multiple ratings into some kind of empty score.People&#39;s lives are too complex, and who wants to do that?I also want to be clear that this isn&#39;t about adding uptweets and likes and friends in a clout-like fashion.Those guys are measuring influence, not behaviorsthat indicate our trustworthiness.
时间：12:43
zh-cn:但我们要记住最重要的是名声具有巨大的情景性。只是因为Sebastian是个很棒的房东，不表示他能组合宜家家私。弄清楚什么数据是合理的是个大挑战因为未来的发展细小的名声数据叠加推动的，不是一个简单的数据。这只是个时间问题，我们可以在未来运行像Facebook或谷歌这种搜索看到某个人在不同情景下的总体表现。我预想会有实时的信息流看到谁信任过你，时间，地点，原因，你在TaskRabbit上的可靠度，你在Airbnb上作为旅客的整洁度，你在Quora上展示过的信息，或其他，这些信息都会聚集起来会出现在某种名声信息图里能够描绘出你的名声值。
en:But the most important thing that we have to keep in mindis that reputation is largely contextual.Just because Sebastian is a wonderful hostdoes not mean that he can assemble Ikea furniture.The big challenge is figuring out what datamakes sense to pull, because the future&#39;sgoing to be driven by a smart aggregation of reputation,not a single algorithm.It&#39;s only a matter of time before we&#39;ll be able to performa Facebook- or Google-like searchand see a complete picture of someone&#39;s behaviorsin different contexts over time.I envision a realtime stream of who has trusted you,when, where and why, your reliability on TaskRabbit,your cleanliness as a guest on Airbnb,the knowledge that you display on Quora or [unclear],they&#39;ll all live together in one place,and this will live in some kind of reputation dashboardthat will paint a picture of your reputation capital.
时间：13:45
zh-cn:这是我现在正在研究的概念，我也就此正在写下一本书，现在想把它定义为你的名声，你的意图，能力和价值观的价值，他们跨越社区和市场。这不是什么不可到达的领域。事实上有一股新兴公司的浪潮像Connect.MeLegit和TrustCloud正在寻求你如何聚集，监管，使用你的在线名声。
en:Now this is a concept that I&#39;m currently researchingand writing my next book on, and currently defineas the worth of your reputation, your intentions,capabilities and values across communities and marketplaces.This isn&#39;t some far-off frontier.There are actually a wave of startups like Connect.Meand Legit and TrustCloud that are figuring out howyou can aggregate, monitor and use your online reputation.
时间：14:13
zh-cn:我想这个概念听起来有点像“老大哥”（某个24小时直播真人秀），是的，这里面有很多透明度和隐私的问题要解决，但最终，如果我们可以收集个人名声信息，我们就更能控制它，提取随之流动的巨大价值。
en:Now, I realize that this concept may sound a littleBig Brother to some of you, and yes, there are someenormous transparency and privacy issues to solve,but ultimately, if we can collect our personal reputation,we can actually control it more, and extractthe immense value that will flow from it.
时间：14:33
zh-cn:而且，远不止是我们的信用记录，我们可以塑造我们的名声。看看Sebastian,他买了只猫这件事对他名声的影响之大。
en:Also, more so than our credit history,we can actually shape our reputation.Just think of Sebastianand how he bought the cat to influence his.
时间：14:43
zh-cn:先把隐私问题放一边，我正在研究的另一个非常有趣的问题是我们如何授权那些数码幽灵？也就是那些不管什么原因，在线不活跃的人们，但他们中有的却是世界上最值得信赖的人。我们如何把他们各方面的贡献，工作中的，社区里的，家庭里的如何把那些价值转化为名声值？
en:Now privacy issues aside, the other really interesting issueI&#39;m looking at is how do we empower digital ghosts,people [who] for whatever reason, are not active online,but are some of the most trustworthy people in the world?How do we take their contributions to their jobs,their communities and their families,and convert that value into reputation capital?
时间：15:05
zh-cn:最终，当我们做到的时候，名声值会产生巨大的正向力影响那些有权力，信任度和影响力的人。一个三位数的分数，你的传统信用记录，我们只有30%的人真正知道那是什么，不会再是一个关键的因素来决定东西的价格，我们可以获取什么，及决定其他事情，限制我们可以在世界上所做的事。确实，我相信名声是一种货币在21是世纪将变得比我们的信用记录更有力量的货币。名声是这么一种货币，显示你可以信任我。
en:Ultimately, when we get it right, reputation capitalcould create a massive positive disruptionin who has power, trust and influence.A three-digit score, your traditional credit history,that only 30 percent of us actually know what it is,will no longer be the determining factorin how much things cost, what we can access,and, in many instances, limit what we can do in the world.Indeed, reputation is a currency that I believe will becomemore powerful than our credit history in the 21st century.Reputation will be the currency that saysthat you can trust me.
时间：15:46
zh-cn:有趣的是，名声是一种社会经济润滑剂，让协作消费运作并规模化，但由此对名声的需求及名声的应用，远比它本身大得多。让我讲一个关于招聘的例子，名声数据会让简历看起来像过去的古迹一样。
en:Now the interesting thing is, reputationis the socioeconomic lubricantthat makes collaborative consumption work and scale,but the sources it will be generated from,and its applications, are far bigger than this space alone.Let me give you one example from the world of recruiting,where reputation data will make the résumé seemlike an archaic relic of the past.
时间：16:13
zh-cn:四年前，技术博客主及企业家Joel Spolsky和Jeff Atwood决定开创Stack Overflow。Stack Overflow基本上是一个平台，经验丰富的程序员可以向其他优秀的程序员请教高度具体的技术性问题，比如微小像数和chrome扩展程序。这个网站每天接收五千五百条问题，八成问题都得到正确答案。现在用户们在其各自的领域都获得名声，但基本上只说服了他们的同伴，因为他们才知道彼此谈论的是什么。
en:Four years ago, tech bloggers and entrepreneursJoel Spolsky and Jeff Atwood, decided to start somethingcalled Stack Overflow.Now, Stack Overflow is basically a platform whereexperienced programmers can askother good programmers highly detailed technical questionson things like tiny pixels and chrome extensions.This site receives five and a half thousand questions a day,and 80 percent of these receive accurate answers.Now users earn reputation in a whole range of ways,but it&#39;s basically by convincing their peersthey know what they&#39;re talking about.
时间：16:55
zh-cn:就在创办这个网站的几个月后，创办人听说了有趣的事，倒没有在他们意料之外。他们听到的是，用户们在履历的最上方标出他们的名声评分，招聘人员在平台上搜索找到各种独特的人才。现在数千名程序员通过这样的方式找到更好的工作，因为Stack Overflow和名声信息图，开启了一扇无价之窗展现人们的真实表现，以及同伴对他们的想法。
en:Now a few months after this site launched, the foundersheard about something interesting,and it actually didn&#39;t surprise them.What they heard was that users were puttingtheir reputation scores on the top of their résumés,and that recruiters were searching the platformto find people with unique talents.Now thousands of programmers today are findingbetter jobs this way, because Stack Overflowand the reputation dashboards provide a priceless windowinto how someone really behaves,and what their peers think of them.
时间：17:28
zh-cn:但Stack Overflow这个故事背后的更重要的原理，在我看来是非常振奋人心的。人们开始意识到，他们在一个地方积累的名声，在其他的情境也有其价值。这是非常有趣的。当你和那些超级用户谈话，不管是SuperRabbits或Stack Overflow,或Uberhosts的超级用户，他们都会谈到，拥有高名声让他们意识到自身的力量。Stack Overflow创造了一个平台，让真正有才能的人脱颖而出。Airbnb上，人与人之间的互动，比房子更重要。TaskRabbit，让人们掌控自己的经济活动。
en:But the bigger principle of what&#39;s happening behind Stack Overflow,I think, is incredibly exciting.People are starting to realize that the reputationthey generate in one place has valuebeyond the environments from which it was built.You know, it&#39;s very interesting.When you talk to super-users, whether that&#39;s SuperRabbitsor super-people on Stack Overflow, or Uberhosts,they all talk about how having a high reputationunlocks a sense of their own power.On Stack Overflow, it creates a level playing field,enabling the people with the real talent to rise to the top.On Airbnb, the people often become more importantthan the spaces. On TaskRabbit,it gives people control of their economic activity.
时间：18:14
zh-cn:回到我和Sebastian的茶会，他告诉我在一个忧郁的雨天，他的书店没有一个顾客的时候，他会想起世界各地的人们那些称赞过他的人们，从他们的话语可以看出他的为人。他今年就要五十岁了，他也意识到他在Airbnb上建立起来的好名声将带领他在未来的岁月里，做些有趣的事情。
en:Now at the end of my tea with Sebastian, he told me how,on a bad, rainy day, when he hasn&#39;t had a customerin his bookstore, he thinks of all the people aroundthe world who&#39;ve said something wonderful about him,and what that says about him as a person.He&#39;s turning 50 this year, and he&#39;s convincedthat the rich tapestry of reputation he&#39;s built on Airbnbwill lead him to doing something interestingwith the rest of his life.
时间：18:42
zh-cn:历史上只有几扇窗蕴含着机会，让我们重新改变社会经济体系的某些运作。我们现在正处其中的一个时机。我相信我们现在所处的协作革命的开始它将会和工业革命一样意义非凡。20世纪，传统信用的建立改造了我们的经济体系，也在很多方面控制着什么样的人可以获取什么样的资源。21世纪，新的信用网络，及它们产生名声值，会以我们无法想象的方式改变我们对财富，市场，力量，个人身份的看法。谢谢大家。（掌声）（掌声）
en:You know, there are only a few windows in historywhere the opportunity exists to reinventpart of how our socioeconomic system works.We&#39;re living through one of those moments.I believe that we are at the start of a collaborative revolutionthat will be as significant as the Industrial Revolution.In the 20th century, the invention of traditional credittransformed our consumer system, and in many wayscontrolled who had access to what.In the 21st century, new trust networks,and the reputation capital they generate, will reinventthe way we think about wealth, markets, powerand personal identity, in ways we can&#39;t yet even imagine.Thank you very much. (Applause)(Applause)
