时间： 0:15
zh-cn:现在，所有的建筑都有一个共同点就是都使用维多利亚时代的技术包括蓝图、工业制造、还有需要一群工人来建造这些都导致了一个消极的结果：这是一个单向的能源转换，既从大自然到我们的城市和家中所以这不是可持续发展的。我认为，建造可持续发展的家园和城市的唯一方法，就是把他们和自然联系到一起而不是分离开来
en:All buildings today have something in common.They&#39;re made using Victorian technologies.This involves blueprints,industrial manufacturingand construction using teams of workers.All of this effort results in an inert object.And that means that there is a one-way transfer of energyfrom our environment into our homes and cities.This is not sustainable.I believe that the only way that it is possible for usto construct genuinely sustainable homes and citiesis by connecting them to nature,not insulating them from it.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:现在，为了做到这，我们需要一种正确的语言和自然“对话”。生命系统和大自然得以永久的沟通在自然界之中通过一系列“新陈代谢”式的化学反应。这种“对话”是一些物质被转换成另一种这种“对话”是一些物质被转换成另一种通过生产或者吸收能量。这是一种将当地资源以可持续的方式转变为生活资料的方法这是一种将当地资源以可持续的方式转变为生活资料的方法这是一种将当地资源以可持续的方式转变为生活资料的方法所以，我对把可以进行新陈代谢的物质运用到建筑当中很感兴趣但这种材料并不存在，我要创造它们
en:Now, in order to do this, we need the right kind of language.Living systems are in constant conversationwith the natural world,through sets of chemical reactions called metabolism.And this is the conversion of one group of substancesinto another, either throughthe production or the absorption of energy.And this is the way in which living materialsmake the most of their local resourcesin a sustainable way.So, I&#39;m interested in the use ofmetabolic materials for the practice of architecture.But they don&#39;t exist. So I&#39;m having to make them.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:我现在在Bartlett建筑学院和Neil Spiller建筑师一起合作。同时，我们还和国际科学家一起合作用自下而上的方法来产生这种新物质。£也就是说，我们要凭空创造。化学家Martin Hanczyc是我们的一位合作者他对处于惰性和活性之间的物质很有兴趣。那也正是我们在研究可持续发展物质中让我感兴趣的。
en:I&#39;m working with architect Neil Spillerat the Bartlett School of Architecture,and we&#39;re collaborating with international scientistsin order to generate these new materialsfrom a bottom up approach.That means we&#39;re generating them from scratch.One of our collaborators is chemist Martin Hanczyc,and he&#39;s really interested in the transition frominert to living matter.Now, that&#39;s exactly the kind of process that I&#39;m interested in,when we&#39;re thinking about sustainable materials.
时间： 1:56
zh-cn:Martin用一个叫做“原生细胞”的系统工作这和魔术一样，看这个是一团脂肪。里面有一个化学电池，但没有DNA。这东西的行为方式只有生命体才有它可以在自己的环境中移动；被化学浓度高的地方吸引；它们能承受复杂的环境变化。它们是一些快乐的建筑师~看这些原生细胞能模仿周围的环境我们还不知道它们是怎么做到这些的看，这也是个原生细胞，它正在努力的脱离表皮，这有点像化学上的分娩，是一个艰难的过程
en:So, Martin, he works with a system called the protocell.Now all this is — and it&#39;s magic —is a little fatty bag. And it&#39;s got a chemical battery in it.And it has no DNA.This little bag is able to conduct itselfin a way that can only be described as living.It is able to move around its environment.It can follow chemical gradients.It can undergo complex reactions,some of which are happily architectural.So here we are. These are protocells,patterning their environment.We don&#39;t know how they do that yet.Here, this is a protocell, and it&#39;s vigorously shedding this skin.Now, this looks like a chemical kind of birth.This is a violent process.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:这是一个能从大气中分离二氧化碳的原生细胞这是一个能从大气中分离二氧化碳的原生细胞并转换为碳酸盐就是那些球状物边上的硬壳它们很脆，我们只能弄到一部分所以，我们所作的是试着把这些技术用来创造一种自下而上的建筑方法有别于现在乃至维多利亚时代沿用的自上而下的方法这可以加强材料的结构.它们更先进
en:Here, we&#39;ve got a protocell to extract carbon dioxideout of the atmosphereand turn it into carbonate.And that&#39;s the shell around that globular fat.They are quite brittle. So you&#39;ve only got a part of one there.So what we&#39;re trying to do is, we&#39;re trying to push these technologiestowards creating bottom-up construction approachesfor architecture,which contrast the current, Victorian, top-down methodswhich impose structure upon matter.That can&#39;t be energetically sensible.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:这种材料其实早就有了。我们的祖先早就把它们运用在建筑上了。如果你走在如今的牛津城，观察一下那些砖块——这些天我很喜欢这样——你能看见很多都是用石灰石做的。如果你更仔细的观察的话，你可以看见那些石头里有些小贝壳和小骨头互相堆积。它们被石化了数百万年，
en:So, bottom-up materialsactually exist today.They&#39;ve been in use, in architecture, since ancient times.If you walk around the city of Oxford, where we are today,and have a look at the brickwork,which I&#39;ve enjoyed doing in the last couple of days,you&#39;ll actually see that a lot of it is made of limestone.And if you look even closer,you&#39;ll see, in that limestone, there are little shellsand little skeletons that are piled upon each other.And then they are fossilized over millions of years.
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:现在做成了一块砖头很有意思吧。这看起来很漂亮但是想象一下这石头会怎么样如果它的表面可以一直和大气“对话”的话。也许它们可以提取二氧化碳。这会给这石灰砖新的特性吗？最有可能的就是它可以生长。也许可以自我修复，甚至对所处环境更复杂的变化做出反应甚至对所处环境更复杂的变化做出反应
en:Now a block of limestone, in itself,isn&#39;t particularly that interesting.It looks beautiful.But imagine what the properties of this limestone block might beif the surfaces were actuallyin conversation with the atmosphere.Maybe they could extract carbon dioxide.Would it give this block of limestone new properties?Well, most likely it would. It might be able to grow.It might be able to self-repair, and even respondto dramatic changesin the immediate environment.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:而建筑学不会对就一块特殊材料的转头感到满足他要考虑的更多，对吗？所以当我们想考虑更多的代谢材料时，我们可以从生态干预入手，像修复珊瑚礁一样，或者是填埋那些城市被水损害的部分这些例子都像威尼斯一样。众所周知，威尼斯和海洋有着密切的关系，而且它建造在木桩上。所以，我们发明了一种可以让原生细胞技术可持续的改变威尼斯的方法建筑师Christian Kerrigan想出了一系列的设计可以让城市下面的石灰石生长可以让城市下面的石灰石生长
en:So, architects are never happywith just one block of an interesting material.They think big. Okay?So when we think about scaling up metabolic materials,we can start thinking about ecological interventionslike repair of atolls,or reclamation of parts of a citythat are damaged by water.So, one of these exampleswould of course be the historic city of Venice.Now, Venice, as you know, has a tempestuous relationship with the sea,and is built upon wooden piles.So we&#39;ve devised a way by which it may be possiblefor the protocell technology that we&#39;re working withto sustainably reclaim Venice.And architect Christian Kerriganhas come up with a series of designs that show ushow it may be possible to actually grow a limestone reefunderneath the city.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:这就是我们现在有的技术这是我们的“原生细胞”技术有效的生产出一种外壳，就像最早的石灰石一样，并且沉积在非常复杂的环境当中并可以对抗自然材料现在，我们正在研究这其中晶胞的键合作用这是非常有意思的一个部分。我们不想让这些石灰石随便在这些美丽的运河中“排泄”我们需要它们在指定的地方生长围绕着木桩生长
en:So, here is the technology we have today.This is our protocell technology,effectively making a shell, like its limestone forefathers,and depositing it in a very complex environment,against natural materials.We&#39;re looking at crystal lattices to see the bonding process in this.Now, this is the very interesting part.We don&#39;t just want limestone dumped everywhere in all the pretty canals.What we need it to do is to becreatively crafted around the wooden piles.
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:你看图中这些原生细胞正在远离光线而朝着暗处运动我们在实验室里观察到这一现象它们可以远离光线它们也可以朝光运动，你只要选择它们的种类就行所以，它们不是以一个实体存在的，我们用化学工程改造它们现在看到的这些细胞正在修复石灰石非常有目的性的，包围威尼斯的根基，有效的固定它。
en:So, you can see from these diagrams that the protocell is actuallymoving away from the light,toward the dark foundations.We&#39;ve observed this in the laboratory.The protocells can actually move away from the light.They can actually also move towards the light. You have to just choose your species.So that these don&#39;t just exist as one entity,we kind of chemically engineer them.And so here the protocells are depositing their limestonevery specifically, around the foundations of Venice,effectively petrifying it.
时间： 5:51
zh-cn:不过这些不是马上就能实现的，需要一些时间这需要几年的时间来改进和监控这项技术为了可以在一个案例一个案例测试的基础上在威尼斯损伤最大的建筑上但渐渐的，当这些建筑被修复时，我们将看到一个城市的下方逐渐堆积的石灰礁。自我堆积是一个很大的二氧化碳沉积过程这也会影响到当地的海洋生态系统，它会找到自己在这个生态系统中的位置。
en:Now, this isn&#39;t going to happen tomorrow. It&#39;s going to take a while.It&#39;s going to take years of tuning and monitoring this technologyin order for us to become readyto test it out in a case-by-case basison the most damaged and stressed buildings within the city of Venice.But gradually, as the buildings are repaired,we will see the accretion of a limestone reef beneath the city.An accretion itself is a huge sink of carbon dioxide.Also it will attract the local marine ecology,who will find their own ecological niches within this architecture.
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:这真是很有趣，现在我们有一种可以把城市与自然连接在一起的建筑技术通过一种直接有效的方式不过也学最让人兴奋的是这种技术在任何地方都有用。这是一种生态化学，我们全都掌握了。这意味着这种技术对发达国家和发展中国家都适合。总结一下。我正在研究的代谢材料是作为一种对维多利亚时代技术不足的弥补并在建筑学中采用自下而上的方法。
en:So, this is really interesting. Now we have an architecturethat connects a city to the natural worldin a very direct and immediate way.But perhaps the most exciting thing about itis that the driver of this technology is available everywhere.This is terrestrial chemistry. We&#39;ve all got it,which means that this technology is just as appropriatefor developing countries as it isfor First World countries.So, in summary, I&#39;m generating metabolic materialsas a counterpoise to Victorian technologies,and building architectures from a bottom-up approach.
时间： 6:56
zh-cn:还有，这些代谢材料有一些生命系统的特点，这意味着它们能与和生命相似的方式工作。随着建筑学的进步，它们很有用武之地。最后，如果一个未来的人来看这些美丽的的建筑时他可能分别不出这些建筑是大自然的杰作呢还是人类的作品谢谢掌声
en:Secondly, these metabolic materialshave some of the properties of living systems,which means they can perform in similar ways.They can expect to have a lot of forms and functionswithin the practice of architecture.And finally, an observer in the futuremarveling at a beautiful structure in the environmentmay find it almost impossible to tellwhether this structurehas been created by a natural processor an artificial one.Thank you.(Applause)
