时间： 0:12
zh-cn:﻿大约在75年前,我那还很年轻的祖父走进了一个帐篷改装而成的电影院,而他马上疯狂地爱上了在银幕上的女人:那人是在三十年代的万人迷梅·蕙丝.他从此对她无法忘怀,甚至於几年后当他有了一个女儿,他想把她改名為梅·蕙丝.但你不可能想像有一个印度孩子叫梅·蕙丝,印度的家庭都说:绝对不行！
en:About 75 years ago,my grandfather, a young man,walked into a tentthat was converted into amovie theater like that,and he fell hopelessly in lovewith the woman he saw on thesilver screen: none other than Mae West,the heartthrob of the &#39;30s,and he could never forget her.In fact, when he had his daughtermany years later, he wanted toname her after Mae West,but can you imagine an Indianchild name Mae West?The Indian family said, no way!
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:所以当我的孪生兄弟Kaesava出生时,他决定在Keshava的名字的拼写上作出一点修改,他说既然梅·蕙丝可以是拼成 M-A-E,為什麼Keshava 不可以是 K-A-E,所以他把Kaeshava 的拼写改变.而Kaeshava 在几星期前有了一个小男孩名叫Rehan,他决定把它拼成或可以说是把它拼错為Raehan，有一个A-E.
en:So when my twin brother Kaesavawas born, he decided to tinkerwith the spelling of Keshava&#39;s name.He said, if Mae West can be M-A-E,why can&#39;t Keshava be K-A-E?So he changed Kaesava&#39;s spelling.Now Kaesava had a baby boycalled Rehan a couple of weeks ago.He decided to spell, or, rather,misspell Raehan with an A-E.
时间： 1:07
zh-cn:你要知道，我的祖父在我还是很小的时候已经去世,但他对梅·蕙丝的爱以拼字错误的方式长存在他后代的DNA上,我觉得这是一个成功的遗传(笑)
en:You know, my grandfather diedmany years ago when I waslittle, but his love for MaeWest lives on as a misspellingin the DNA of his progeny.That for me is successful legacy. (Laughs)
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:而至於我,我太太和我有一个疯狂的传奇计划,我们事实上每几年都在争论，反对，争执最终想出我们的二百年计划.
en:You know, as for me,my wife and I have our owncrazy legacy project.We actually sit every few years,argue, disagree, fight,and actually come up with ourvery own 200-year plan.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:我们的朋友认为我们疯掉,我们的父母也认为我们疯掉,因为我们两个都是来自一个谦逊和智慧的家庭,但我们两个都想生存得比生命更伟大.我相信一个胜王瑜伽行者的概念,要成为一个苦行者前,你先要成为一个讲究生活的人.这是我成为一个摇滚巨星,虽然只是在家里.你能理解吧.
en:Our friends think we&#39;re mad.Our parents think we&#39;re cuckoo.Because, you know, we bothcome from families that reallylook up to humility and wisdom,but we both like to livelarger than life.I believe in the concept ofa Raja Yogi: Be a dude beforeyou can become an ascetic.This is me being a rock star,even if it&#39;s in my own house.You know?
时间： 1:55
zh-cn:当我太太Netra和我在十年前坐下去制定我们第一个计划时,我们希望这计划的重点是要远远超越我们.那么超越我们是指什么呢?
en:So when Netra and I sat downto make our first plan10 years ago, we saidwe want the focus of this planto go way beyond ourselves.What do we mean by beyond ourselves?
时间： 2:07
zh-cn:噢，我们计算二百年后将会是我们对世界的直接连接的终结.我所认识的人没有人可以生存超过二百年。所以我们想,这将是把我们的计划扎根的好地方,并让我们的想像起飞.
en:Well 200 years, we calculated,is at the end of our directcontact with the world.There&#39;s nobody I&#39;ll meet inmy life will ever live beyond200 years, so we thoughtthat&#39;s a perfect place wherewe should situate our plan andlet our imagination take flight.
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:你知道我从来不相信传承.我会留下什么呢?我是一个艺术家,直至我作了有关911的卡通.它带给我很多的麻烦,我非常的失落,那个卡通本来只想成为本周最佳卡通片,结果它持续了很长时间.
en:You know, I never reallybelieved in legacy. What am Igoing to leave behind? I&#39;m an artist.Until I made a cartoon about 9/11.It caused so much trouble for me.I was so upset.You know, a cartoon that wasmeant to be a cartoon of the weekended up staying so much longer.
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:现在我所从事的就是创作一定可以比我活得更久的作品.我会想我希望透过那些作品留下什么.
en:Now I&#39;m in the business ofcreating art that willdefinitely even outlive me, andI think about what I want toleave behind through those paintings.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:你知道911的卡通令我非常沮丧,使我打算不再作卡通了.我说:我不会再发表坦诚的公开评论了.
en:You know, the 9/11 cartoonupset me so much that I decidedI&#39;ll never cartoon again.I said, I&#39;m never going to make anyhonest public commentary again.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:但当然我还是继续创作真诚和原创的作品.因为我忘记了别人对我的作品的反应.
en:But of course I continuedcreating artwork that was honestand raw, because I forgot abouthow people reacted to my work.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:你知道有时健忘能令人保持理想.可能失去记忆对于人类的生存至关重要.
en:You know, sometimes forgettingis so important to remain idealistic.Perhaps loss of memory is socrucial for our survivalas human beings.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:Netra和我在我们的200年计划中一件最重要的事情就是如何忘记自己.你知道我们背负着很多包袱,从父母从社会，从很多人 —恐惧，不安感.我们的200年计划列举了我们应该终止的儿时问题.我们甚至乎在我们的儿时问题上加上一个到期日.最近我加上的日期是,我打算停止对我左倾和崇尚男女平等主义的外祖母的恐惧.而到期日就是今天(笑)她正在看(笑)
en:One of the most important thingsin my 200-year plan that Netraand I write is what to forgetabout ourselves.You know, we carry so muchbaggage, from our parents,from our society, from so manypeople — fears, insecurities — andour 200-year plan really listsall our childhood problems that we have to expire.We actually put an expiry dateon all our childhood problems.The latest date I put was,I said, I am going to expiremy fear of my leftist, feministmother-in-law, and thistoday is the date! (Laughs)She&#39;s watching. (Laughter)
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:总之我时常对我希望如何能记住自己而作出决定,而这些决定是我做出的所有决定中最重要的部分.这些直接反映在我的画作中.如同我的朋友,我可以在脸谱网(Facebook)Pinterest, 微博(Twitter)，照相簿(Flickr)，网上短片(youTube)中做得很好.你能说出的，我都在.我开始把我的回忆外包给数码世界.但你要知道,这带来一个问题.你很容易以科技象征记忆,但我们的大脑是不像科技那样一个完美存储设备.我们只会记着我们想记着的事情,至少我是这样.我甚至认为我们的大脑对我们的记忆进行有偏见的的管理.那如果科技不是记忆的象征,那么它是什么呢？
en:Anyway, you know, I reallymake decisions all the timeabout how I want to remembermyself, and that&#39;s the most importantkind of decisions I make.And this directly translatesinto my paintings.But like my friends, I can dothat really well on Facebook,Pinterest, Twitter, Flickr, YouTube.Name it, I&#39;m on it.I&#39;ve started outsourcing mymemory to the digital world,you know? But that comeswith a problem.It&#39;s so easy to think oftechnology as a metaphorfor memory, but our brainsare not perfect storage deviceslike technology.We only remember what wewant to. At least I do.And I rather think of our brainsas biased curators of ourmemory, you know? And iftechnology is not a metaphor formemory, what is it?
时间： 4:54
zh-cn:Netra 和我以科技作为我们的200年计划的一个工具,用以牧养我们的电子传承.
en:Netra and I use our technologyas a tool in our 200-year planto really curate our digital legacy.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:这是我母亲的照片,她最近在脸谱网(Facebook)上创建了一个帐户,你知道这将会怎样发展.我原先是非常支持她的,直至这张照片出现在我的Facebook主页上.(笑声)
en:That is a picture of my mother,and she recently got a Facebook account.You know where this is going.And I&#39;ve been very supportiveuntil this picture shows upon my Facebook page. (Laughter)
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:我真的把我自己移除,然后我拿起电话,我说: &quot;妈! 你以后不要再把我穿着比基尼的照片放在网上.&quot;而她说: &quot;为什么，亲爱的，你很可爱呀&quot;我说: &quot;你真的不明白.&quot;
en:And I actually untagged myselffirst, then I picked up thephone. I said, &quot;Mom, you willnever put a picture of mein a bikini ever again.&quot;And she said, &quot;Why? You lookso cute, darling.&quot; I said,&quot;You just don&#39;t understand.&quot;
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:可能我们是第一代真的明白网络世界如何塑造我们的人.甚至可能我们是最先积极记录生活的人.
en:Maybe we are among the firstgeneration that really understandsthis digital curating of ourselves.Maybe we are the first to evenactively record our lives.
时间： 5:41
zh-cn:无论你同意与否,你知道我们是无时无刻都在留下我们的电子足迹.所以Netra和我真的很想用我们的200年计划来建立我们的电子遗传.不单单只是电子记忆,我们是相信把我们的过去与未来好好的遗传下去.
en:You know, whether youagree with, you know, legacyor not, we are actually leavingbehind digital traces all the time.So Netra and I really wantedto use our 200-year planto curate this digital legacy,and not only digital legacybut we believe in curatingthe legacy of my pastand future.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:你可能会问，那应怎样做呢?
en:How, you may ask?
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:当我想着未来,我从来不觉得自己是随着时间向前走,而是时间倒着走向我.我可以想像我的将来在向我靠近.我可以躲开我不喜欢的事情,或是走进我喜欢的事情中.这好像电子游戏中的障碍赛.我做得越来越好,甚至乎当我作画时,我可以幻想站在画作背后,好像它已经存在一样.其他人在看着它,而我可以见到他们对它发自内心的感受.他们是发自内心呢,还是只是理性的?这带给我很多讯息.甚至乎当我在开画展时,我真的会想象人们应该带走些什么?
en:Well, when I think of the future,I never see myself moving forwardin time. I actually see timemoving backward towards me.I can actually visualizemy future approaching.I can dodge what I don&#39;t wantand pull in what I want.It&#39;s like a video game obstaclecourse. And I&#39;ve gotten better and betterat doing this. Even when I makea painting, I actually imagineI&#39;m behind the painting,it already exists, andsomeone&#39;s looking at it,and I see whether they&#39;refeeling it from their gut.Are they feeling it from theirheart, or is it just a cerebral thing?And it really informs my painting.Even when I do an art show,I really think about, what shouldpeople walk away with?
时间： 6:43
zh-cn:我记得当我19岁的时候,我想开我第一个画展.我希望全世界都知道这个画展.我当时不知道TED,但我当时是把我的眼睛紧闭然后开始幻想.我可以想像人们走进来,盛装出席, 非常漂亮我的画作成为全场的焦点.而在我的幻想里,我真的见到一位非常有名的女艺人为我的画展剪采,给我赞赏.我从我的幻想中醒来,我问她是谁,我不能分辨她是谢花阿兹米还是瑞卡,两位印度当红的女艺人,有如印度的梅莉史翠普.
en:I remember when I was 19,I did, I wanted to do my firstart exhibition, and I wanted thewhole world to know about it.I didn&#39;t know TED then,but what I did was I closedmy eyes tight, and I starteddreaming. I could imagine peoplecoming in, dressed up, lookingbeautiful, my paintings with allthe light, and in my visualizationI actually saw a very famousactress launching my show,giving credibility to me.And I woke up from myvisualization and I said,who was that? I couldn&#39;t tellif it was Shabana Azmi or Rekha,two very famous Indian actresses,like the Meryl Streeps of India.
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:最后第二天,我写了一封信给她们,而谢花阿兹米回复了.她来了为我的画展剪采,在12年前我的第一个画展.而这打响了我的事业第一炮!当我们用这方法思考时间,你不但在建立将来,也在建立过去.这是我的家庭照,这是Netra, 我的太太,她是我的200年计划的同创人.
en:As it turned out, next morningI wrote a letter to both of them,and Shabana Azmi replied,and came and launchedmy very first show 12 years ago.And what a bang it startedmy career with! You know,when we think of time in thisway, we can curate not only thefuture but also the past.This is a picture of my family,and that is Netra, my wife.She&#39;s the co-creator of my200-year plan.
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:Netra是一个中学历史老师,我爱Netra,但我讨厌历史.我常常说: &quot;Nets, 你活在过去,而我在创造未来,当我完成了,你就可以研究它了.&quot;(笑)
en:Netra&#39;s a high school historyteacher. I love Netra,but I hate history.I keep saying, &quot;Nets, you livein the past while I&#39;ll createthe future, and when I&#39;m done,you can study about it.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:她会给我一个宽容的微笑,而后作为一个惩罚，她会说:&quot;明天我将会教授有关印度历史的课, 你要来上课,而我给你评分&quot;
en:She gave me an indulgent smile,and as punishment, she said,&quot;Tomorrow I&#39;m teaching a classon Indian history, and you aresitting in it, and I&#39;m grading you.&quot;
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:我会像&quot;噢,我的天呀&quot;.
en:I&#39;m like, &quot;Oh, God.&quot; I went.
时间： 8:21
zh-cn:我确实有去上她的课,她开始给她的学生来自印度,巴基斯坦和英国的原档案.当时我就说&quot;哇&quot;.而她叫她的学生把事实和偏见分开.我再一次说&quot;哇&quot;.她会接着说: &quot;拣选你的事实和偏见,而后创造出你自己幻想的一个故事.
en:I actually went and sat inon her class. She started bygiving students primary sourcedocuments from India, Pakistan,from Britain, and I said,&quot;Wow.&quot; Then she asked them toseparate fact from bias.I said, &quot;Wow,&quot; again.Then she said, &quot;Choose yourfacts and biases and create animage of your own storyof dignity.&quot;
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:历史作为一个幻想的工具?那堂课给我很多灵感
en:History as an imaging tool?I was so inspired.
时间： 8:54
zh-cn:我也创作了我自己的印度历史的版本.我甚至于加入了来自我祖母的故事.她以往从事电话转接的工作.有时她会听到尼赫鲁和埃德维娜蒙巴顿的对话,她会听到各种各样她不应该听到的事情.但你知道,我会把它放进去,而这成为我的印度历史的版本.
en:I went and created my ownversion of Indian history.I actually included stories frommy grandmother.She used to work for thetelephone exchange, and she usedto actually overhear conversationsbetween Nehru and Edwina Mountbatten.And she used to hear allkinds of things she shouldn&#39;thave heard. But, you know,I include things like that.This is my version of Indian history.
时间： 9:15
zh-cn:你知道, 我突然想到,如果是这样,可能，仅仅是可能,我们的大脑的主要目标是服务我们的尊严.告诉面谱网(Facebook)去弄清楚怎么回事吧!
en:You know, if thisis so, it occurred to me thatmaybe, just maybe, the primaryobjective of our brainsis to serve our dignity.Go tell Facebook tofigure that out!
时间： 9:31
zh-cn:Netra和我不是為了别人在150年后来实现我们写的200年计划,试想你收到一个写着来自过去的包裹,而你将要用你的餘生去把它实现,不是这样的.我们这样做只为了让我们能正确的端正我们的态度.
en:Netra and I don&#39;t write our200-year plan for someone elseto come and execute itin 150 years. Imagine receivinga parcel saying, from the past,okay now you&#39;re supposed tospend the rest of your lifedoing all of this. No.We actually write it onlyto set our attitudes right.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:我曾经相信,教育是能够留下一段传奇的最重要的工具.教育是很棒,它的确教会我们是谁,而且帮助我们认识自己在这个世界的位置.不过真正教我使我能成为教育教会的我更强的,是我的创造力.
en:You know, I used to believethat education is the mostimportant tool to leavea meaningful legacy.Education is great.It really teaches us whowe are, and helps uscontextualize ourselvesin the world, but it&#39;s reallymy creativity that&#39;s taught methat I can be much morethan what my education told me I am.
时间：10:11
zh-cn:我想说,创造力是我们拥有的最重要的工具,它让我们创造了现在的我们,并培养着未来的我们.
en:I&#39;d like to makethe argument that creativity isthe most important tool we have.It lets us create who we are,and curate what is to come.
时间：10:21
zh-cn:我喜欢想象—谢谢.
en:I like to think — Thank you.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:我喜欢把我自己当成一个讲故事的人,我的过去和未来都成为故事,而这些故事等待着被讲述和再讲述.我希望你们所有人有一天能有这个机会,去分享并且写下你自己的200年的故事
en:I like to think of myselfas a storyteller, where my pastand my future are only stories,my stories, waiting to be toldand retold. I hope all of youone day get a chance toshare and write your own200-year story.
时间：10:41
zh-cn:谢谢你.
en:Thank you so much.
时间：10:42
zh-cn:谢谢.(鼓掌)
en:Shukran! (Applause)
