时间： 0:11
zh-cn:第一位接受抗生素治疗的患者是一位来自牛津的警察。有一天他下班后，在花园劳作时被一朵玫瑰上的刺划伤了。这个小伤口被感染了。在接下来的几天里，他的脸开始浮胀并出现了脓肿，事实上他的眼球也被感染了，不得不摘除。到了1941年的2月，这个可怜的人已经奄奄一息了。他在牛津市的Radcliffe Infirmary医院接受治疗，幸运的是，由霍华德·弗洛里医生（译注：澳洲药理学家）带头的一个医疗小组成功的合成了少量的盘尼西林，一种被亚历山大·弗莱明（译注：苏格兰药学家）在12年前发现的药物，但它从来没有被用来给人治病，事实上甚至没有人知道这种药是否有效，如果这种药不纯净是否会致死，但是弗洛里和他的团队觉得如果他们需要使用这种药，不妨干脆在已无药可救的患者身上试试看。
en:The first patient to ever be treated with an antibioticwas a policeman in Oxford.On his day off from work,he was scratched by a rose thornwhile working in the garden.That small scratch became infected.Over the next few days, his head was swollenwith abscesses,and in fact his eye was so infectedthat they had to take it out,and by February of 1941,this poor man was on the verge of dying.He was at Radcliffe Infirmary in Oxford,and fortunately for him,a small team of doctorsled by a Dr. Howard Floreyhad managed to synthesizea very small amount of penicillin,a drug that had been discovered12 years before by Alexander Flemingbut had never actually been used to treat a human,and indeed no one even knew if the drug would work,if it was full of impurities that would kill the patient,but Florey and his team figuredif they had to use it, they might as well use iton someone who was going to die anyway.
时间： 1:13
zh-cn:于是他们把这种药用在了Albert Alexander这名牛津警察的身上，还不到24小时，他的病情就开始逐渐好转。他的烧退了，食欲也恢复了。第二天，他恢复的更快了。不过盘尼西林快用完了，于是医生们提取了他的尿液来重新合成盘尼西林，再回过头来治疗他，这种做法见效了。第四天，他仍在慢慢好转。这是个奇迹。第五天，盘尼西林又用完了，这个可怜的人就死了。
en:So they gave Albert Alexander,this Oxford policeman, the drug,and within 24 hours,he started getting better.His fever went down, his appetite came back.Second day, he was doing much better.They were starting to run out of penicillin,so what they would do was run with his urineacross the road to re-synthesize the penicillin from his urineand give it back to him,and that worked.Day four, well on the way to recovery.This was a miracle.Day five, they ran out of penicillin,and the poor man died.
时间： 1:51
zh-cn:所以这个故事的结局不太好，但是对其他几百万人来说却是个福音，比如这个在40年代同样接受盘尼西林治疗的孩子，她差点死于败血症，但经过了仅仅6天的治疗，你们可以看到，在神奇的盘尼西林的治疗下她已经康复。几百万人因此活了下来，全球的健康状况也发生了转变。现在，抗生素已经被用在这样的病人身上，但同时也应用于其他非常不合适的情况，比如仅仅用来治疗感冒或者流感，而这很可能没什么效果，抗生素也以非治疗的目的被大量使用，也就是说用很低的浓度，让鸡和猪长得更快。只为了买肉的时候省几分钱，我们把大量的抗生素用在了动物身上，但不是为了治疗，并没有用在生病的动物身上，而主要是促进生长。
en:So that story didn&#39;t end that well,but fortunately for millions of other people,like this child who was treated again in the early 1940s,who was again dying of a sepsis,and within just six days, you can see,recovered thanks to this wonder drug, penicillin.Millions have lived,and global health has been transformed.Now, antibiotics have been usedfor patients like this,but they&#39;ve also been used rather frivolouslyin some instances,for treating someone with just a cold or the flu,which they might not have responded to an antibiotic,and they&#39;ve also been used in large quantitiessub-therapeutically, whichmeans in small concentrations,to make chicken and hogs grow faster.Just to save a few pennieson the price of meat,we&#39;ve spent a lot of antibiotics on animals,not for treatment, not for sick animals,but primarily for growth promotion.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:那么，长此以往会怎么样呢？简单的说，世界范围内的抗生素滥用已经导致其对很多细菌不起作用了，抗药性已经成为了一个问题，因为我们如今所针对的细菌恰恰都具备了抗药性。
en:Now, what did that lead us to?Basically, the massive use of antibioticsaround the worldhas imposed such largeselection pressure on bacteriathat resistance is now a problem,because we&#39;ve now selected for justthe resistant bacteria.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:我很确定你们都在报纸上看到过这个信息，你们浏览的每本杂志也都提到了，不过我真的希望你们能够认识到这个问题的重要性。情况已经很严重了。在下一张幻灯片我要提到不动杆菌对碳青霉烯的抗药性。不动杆菌是一种极易附着在医疗材料上的细菌，而碳青霉烯几乎是一种我们可用来对付这种细菌的最强的抗生素。你们可以看到在1999年，这种细菌抗药性在全美国的分布，细菌抗药性只低于10%。现在我们看看视频里发生了哪些变化。
en:And I&#39;m sure you&#39;ve all readabout this in the newspapers,you&#39;ve seen this in every magazinethat you come across,but I really want you to appreciatethe significance of this problem.This is serious.The next slide I&#39;m about to show you is of carbapenem resistance in acinetobacter.Acinetobacter is a nasty hospital bug,and carbapenem is pretty muchthe strongest class of antibioticsthat we can throw at this bug.And you can see in 1999this is the pattern of resistance,mostly under about 10 percentacross the United States.Now watch what happens when we play the video.
时间： 3:57
zh-cn:我不知道你们都住在哪里，不过无论在哪，情况都比1999年糟糕得多，这就是抗生素耐菌性问题。这是个全球性的问题，很多国家，不论穷富都受到了影响，究其本质，你们可能会想，这应该只是个医疗问题吧？如果我们告诉医生们如何尽量少用抗生素，如果我们告诉患者如何降低对抗生素的依赖，这很有可能就不是个问题了，可能制药公司需要加大力度生产更多的抗生素。现在事实已经证明了抗生素具备一些基本性质让它不同于其他药物，也就是说如果我误用了抗生素，或者我仅仅是使用了抗生素，不光是我自己，其他人也会受到影响，就好比我决定开车去上班，或者飞去什么地方，我的出行造成的气候变化对其他人的影响无处不在，我并不会意识到由此产生的代价。这就是经济学家们所谓的公地问题，这种公地问题恰恰就是我们在抗生素使用上需要面对的：我们并没有考虑到——这里的我们包括个人，患者，医院，整个卫生系统——没有认识到抗生素的实际使用方式对其他人造成的影响。
en:So I don&#39;t know where you live,but wherever it is, it certainly is a lot worse nowthan it was in 1999,and that is the problem of antibiotic resistance.It&#39;s a global issueaffecting both rich and poor countries,and at the heart of it, you might say, well,isn&#39;t this really just a medical issue?If we taught doctors how not to use antibiotics as much,if we taught patients how not to demand antibiotics,perhaps this really wouldn&#39;t be an issue,and maybe the pharmaceutical companiesshould be working harder to developmore antibiotics.Now, it turns out that there&#39;s something fundamental about antibioticswhich makes it different from other drugs,which is that if I misuse antibioticsor I use antibiotics,not only am I affected but others are affected as well,in the same way as if I choose to drive to workor take a plane to go somewhere,that the costs I impose on othersthrough global climate change go everywhere,and I don&#39;t necessarily takethese costs into consideration.This is what economists might call a problem of the commons,and the problem of the commons is exactlywhat we face in the case of antibiotics as well:that we don&#39;t consider —and we, including individuals, patients,hospitals, entire health systems —do not consider the costs that they impose on othersby the way antibiotics are actually used.
时间： 5:14
zh-cn:这个问题同另一个众所周知的领域非常相似，也就是燃料的使用以及能源，当然，能源的使用不单大量的消耗了能源，同时也导致了地域性的空气污染和气候变化。具体点说，在能源这个问题上，有两种方法可以解决。一个就是我们可以更好的利用现有的原油，也就是说我们同样可以更好的利用现有的抗生素，可以通过很多种方法，不胜枚举，不过另一个选择就是所谓的“不断开采”方式，在抗生素的问题上就是找到新的抗生素。
en:Now, that&#39;s a problem that&#39;s similarto another area that we all know about,which is of fuel use and energy,and of course energy useboth depletes energy as well asleads to local pollution and climate change.And typically, in the case of energy,there are two ways in whichyou can deal with the problem.One is, we can make betteruse of the oil that we have,and that&#39;s analogous to making better useof existing antibiotics,and we can do this in a number of waysthat we&#39;ll talk about in a second,but the other option is the &quot;drill, baby, drill&quot; option,which in the case of antibiotics is to go find new antibiotics.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:如今这两个问题已经不能区别对待了。它们是相互关联的，因为如果我们大量的开采新的油田，我们就削弱了保护原油资源的动力，对待抗生素也是如此。相反的情况也同样会发生，也就是如果我们适当的使用抗生素，在新药研发领域也就不需要什么投资了。
en:Now, these are not separate.They&#39;re related, because if we invest heavilyin new oil wells,we reduce the incentives for conservation of oilin the same way that&#39;s going to happen for antibiotics.The reverse is also going to happen, which is thatif we use our antibiotics appropriately,we don&#39;t necessarily have to make the investmentsin new drug development.
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:如果你觉得这两点在这两个选择中可以完全平衡，你们可能会想到事实上我们在玩一个游戏。这个游戏类似于共同进化，而共同进化在这幅图片中就是非洲猎豹和瞪羚的关系。非洲猎豹已经进化到能够跑得更快，因为如果它们不跑的再快一些，它们就吃不到午餐。瞪羚也进化的跑得更快了，因为如果它们不跑快点，就会被吃掉。这就是我们要跟抗生素做的斗争，只不过我们不是非洲猎豹，我们是瞪羚，而细菌们在演讲的这段时间里就已经繁殖了一代又一代，弄清了如何通过筛选，尝试和误差来变得更顽强，不断的进行尝试，变化。那么我们要如何抢在细菌前面呢？我们有药物研究过程，筛选分子，我们有临床试验，当我们认为研制出了一种新药，还要通过食品药物管理局的监管流程。一旦我们经历了这些过程，我们就会尝试更进一步对付细菌。
en:And if you thought that these two were entirely,fully balanced between these two options,you might consider the fact thatthis is really a game that we&#39;re playing.The game is really one of coevolution,and coevolution is, in this particular picture,between cheetahs and gazelles.Cheetahs have evolved to run faster,because if they didn&#39;t run faster,they wouldn&#39;t get any lunch.Gazelles have evolved to run faster becauseif they don&#39;t run faster, they would be lunch.Now, this is the game we&#39;replaying against the bacteria,except we&#39;re not the cheetahs,we&#39;re the gazelles,and the bacteria would,just in the course of this little talk,would have had kids and grandkidsand figured out how to be resistantjust by selection and trial and error,trying it over and over again.Whereas how do we stay ahead of the bacteria?We have drug discovery processes,screening molecules,we have clinical trials,and then, when we think we have a drug,then we have the FDA regulatory process.And once we go through all of that,then we try to stay one step aheadof the bacteria.
时间： 7:23
zh-cn:显然这并不是一个能够长期进行的游戏，或者仅仅通过革新就能保持领先优势。我们需要减慢共同进化的脚步，我们可以从能源领域借鉴一些想法，能够帮助我们思考我们应该如何应对抗生素。如果你们想想我们是如何应对能源价格上涨，打个比方，我们考虑一下排放税，也就是说我们在向使用了那些能源的人们征税。我们会想要用同样的方式对待抗生素，这样可能会保证抗生素能得到合理的使用。洁净能源补贴用在不会产生太多污染的燃料上，或者可能完全不需要化石燃料。现在，相似的地方就是，可能我们需要避免使用抗生素，你们想一下，抗生素有哪些好的替代品？任何可以减少对抗生素需求的东西可能都行得通，也就是说可能包括提高医院的感染控制能力，或者给人们注射疫苗，尤其是针对季节性流感。季节性流感可能是抗生素使用的最大诱因，不单是在我们国家，在其他国家也一样，这很有帮助。第三种选择可能包括可交易许可之类的东西。这些看起来像遥不可及的计划，但是如果你们思考一下这个事实，我们可能没有足够的抗生素让所有受到感染的人都用上，我们可能考虑到一个事实，可能想要把这些抗生素分配给那些更需要的人，而其中一些人需要考虑临床需要以及价格。当然消费者教育起了作用。多数时候，人们用了过量的抗生素，或者开了太多处方，而并没有意识到他们确实做的过头了，而反馈机制也被证明很有用，对能源来说也是一样——当你跟别人说他们在高峰时间段耗费了太多能源，他们会开始节约，同样的例子在抗生素上也有所体现。圣路易斯的一家医院简单的把外科医生的名字依据上个月用了多少抗生素列了个表，这就是个直接的信息反馈，没什么可丢人的，不过重要的是这样做反馈给了外科大夫一些信息，可能他们能够重新考虑如何使用抗生素。
en:Now, this is clearly not a game that can be sustained,or one that we can winby simply innovating to stay ahead.We&#39;ve got to slow the pace of coevolution down,and there are ideas that we can borrow from energythat are helpful in thinking abouthow we might want to do this in the caseof antibiotics as well.Now, if you think about how we deal withenergy pricing, for instance,we consider emissions taxes,which means we&#39;re imposing the costs of pollutionon people who actually use that energy.We might consider doing that for antibiotics as well,and perhaps that would make sure that antibioticsactually get used appropriately.There are clean energy subsidies,which are to switch to fuelswhich don&#39;t pollute as muchor perhaps don&#39;t need fossil fuels.Now, the analogy here is, perhaps we needto move away from using antibiotics,and if you think about it, what are good substitutes for antibiotics?Well, turns out that anything that reducesthe need for the antibiotic would really work,so that could include improvinghospital infection controlor vaccinating people,particularly against the seasonal influenza.And the seasonal flu is probablythe biggest driver of antibiotic use,both in this country as wellas in many other countries,and that could really help.A third option might includesomething like tradeable permits.And these seem like faraway scenarios,but if you consider the fact that we might nothave antibiotics for many people who have infections,we might consider the fact that we mightwant to allocate who actually gets to usesome of these antibiotics over others,and some of these might have tobe on the basis of clinical need,but also on the basis of pricing.And certainly consumer education works.Very often, people overuse antibioticsor prescribe too much without necessarilyknowing that they do so,and feedback mechanismshave been found to be useful,both on energy —When you tell someone that they&#39;re usinga lot of energy during peak hour,they tend to cut back,and the same sort of example has been performedeven in the case of antibiotics.A hospital in St. Louis basically would put upon a chart the names of surgeonsin the ordering of how much antibiotics they&#39;d usedin the previous month,and this was purely an informational feedback,there was no shaming,but essentially that provided some information backto surgeons that maybe they could rethinkhow they were using antibiotics.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:如今，在供给这方面也有不少可以采取的行动。如果你们看看盘尼西林的价格，每一天的花费是10美分。这已经很便宜了。如果你们吃同一时期上市的药——利奈唑胺或者达托霉素——它们都要贵得多，所以对于一个习惯了每天花费10美分在抗生素上的市场来说，每天花180美元看起来太多了。那么这究竟告诉了我们什么呢？这个价格告诉了我们我们在可预见的未来不应该继续使用廉价有效的抗生素了，这个价格对我们来说也是个信号，可能我们需要对节俭保护给予重视。这个价格也给出了另外一个信号，可能我们需要开始转向其他技术，就好像汽油价格是一种信号，可以说其刺激了电动车的发展。价格是很重要的信号，我们要重视起来，但我们也要考虑到一个事实，虽然这些高价对抗生素来说看起来不太寻常，跟一些抗癌药的日常价格相比抗生素的花销算不了什么，抗癌药可以让患者的生命多维持几个月或者一年，而抗生素很可能彻底挽救一个患者的生命。所以这将会包括一个全新的模式变革这种变化也很可怕，因为在这个国家的很多地方，在世界的各个角落，每天花上200美元来进行抗生素治疗简直是不可想象。所以我们需要好好想一想。
en:Now, there&#39;s a lot that can be doneon the supply side as well.If you look at the price of penicillin,the cost per day is about 10 cents.It&#39;s a fairly cheap drug.If you take drugs that havebeen introduced since then —linezolid or daptomycin —those are significantly more expensive,so to a world that has been used topaying 10 cents a day for antibiotics,the idea of paying 180 dollars per dayseems like a lot.But what is that really telling us?That price is telling usthat we should no longertake cheap, effective antibiotics as a giveninto the foreseeable future,and that price is a signal to usthat perhaps we need to be payingmuch more attention to conservation.That price is also a signalthat maybe we need to startlooking at other technologies,in the same way that gasoline prices are a signaland an impetus, to, say,the development of electric cars.Prices are important signalsand we need to pay attention,but we also need to consider the fact thatalthough these high pricesseem unusual for antibiotics,they&#39;re nothing compared to the price per dayof some cancer drugs,which might save a patient&#39;s life onlyfor a few months or perhaps a year,whereas antibiotics would potentiallysave a patient&#39;s life forever.So this is going to involvea whole new paradigm shift,and it&#39;s also a scary shift becausein many parts of this country,in many parts of the world,the idea of paying 200 dollarsfor a day of antibiotic treatmentis simply unimaginable.So we need to think about that.
时间：11:24
zh-cn:还有一些强化方案，也就是人们正在努力研究的很多其他技术。包括噬菌体，益生菌，细菌群体行为调控机制，合生剂。
en:Now, there are backstop options,which is other alternative technologiesthat people are working on.It includes bacteriophages, probiotics,quorum sensing, synbiotics.
时间：11:37
zh-cn:现如今这些都是可以探寻的有效途径，当新的抗生素的价格不断上涨时，它们就会变得越来越盈利，事实上市场已经开始有所回应了，政府现在正在考虑为新的抗生素及其研发提供补助。不过还有些挑战。我们可不想把钱都花在麻烦上面。我们想要做的是投资新的抗生素，能够实际上鼓励这些抗生素的适度使用和销售，这就是真正的挑战。
en:Now, all of these are useful avenues to pursue,and they will become even more lucrativewhen the price of new antibiotics starts going higher,and we&#39;ve seen that themarket does actually respond,and the government is now consideringways of subsidizing new antibiotics and development.But there are challenges here.We don&#39;t want to just throw money at a problem.What we want to be able to dois invest in new antibioticsin ways that actually encourageappropriate use and sales of those antibiotics,and that really is the challenge here.
时间：12:10
zh-cn:那么现在回到这些技术上，你们肯定都记得《侏罗纪公园》里的台词，“大自然会自寻出路。”所以这看起来并不像个一劳永逸的解决方案。我们需要谨记，无论采用什么样的技术，大自然都会找到方法解决问题。
en:Now, going back to these technologies,you all remember the line from that famousdinosaur film, &quot;Nature will find a way.&quot;So it&#39;s not as if these are permanent solutions.We really have to remember that,whatever the technology might be,that nature will find some way to work around it.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:你们可能会想，这只是个有关抗生素和细菌的问题，不过事实证明我们在很多其他领域都有相同的问题，比如对很多药物都有耐药性的肺结核，这种病在印度和南非的状况不容乐观。数以千计的患者都在面临死亡的威胁，因为二线药物都很贵，有的情况下，当你患有这种病时它们甚至完全不起作用。病毒也在变得更耐药。农业害虫。疟原虫。现在，世界上很多地方都依赖一种药，青蒿素药物，尤其是用它来治疗疟疾。青蒿素耐菌性已经开始减弱了，如果这种情况愈演愈烈，单一药物的风险就会在全世界出现出现，我们就需要采取目前看来安全有效的方式来治疗疟疾。蚊子也变得耐药了。如果你有孩子，你可能知道头虱，如果你从纽约市来，我知道那里的臭虫问题很严重。这些东西都有耐药性。我们需要借鉴一洋之隔的例子。事实证明老鼠对毒药也产生了耐性。
en:You might think, well, this is just a problemjust with antibiotics and with bacteria,but it turns out that we have the exact sameidentical problem in many other fields as well,with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis,which is a serious problem in India and South Africa.Thousands of patients are dying becausethe second-line drugs are so expensive,and in some instances, even those don&#39;t workand you have XDR TB.Viruses are becoming resistant.Agricultural pests. Malaria parasites.Right now, much of the world depends onone drug, artemisinin drugs,essentially to treat malaria.Resistance to artemisinin has already emerged,and if this were to become widespread,that puts at riskthe single drug that we have to treat malaria around the worldin a way that&#39;s currently safe and efficacious.Mosquitos develop resistance.If you have kids, you probably know about head lice,and if you&#39;re from New York City,I understand that the specialty there is bedbugs.So those are also resistant.And we have to bring anexample from across the pond.Turns out that rats are also resistant to poisons.
时间：13:32
zh-cn:那么所有这些事的共同点就是我们用现有的技术控制大自然的力量仅仅有七八十，或者一百年左右，而重点在于短时间内，我们就浪费了真正能掌控大自然的能力因为我们还没有认识到自然选择和进化会找到恢复原状的途径，我们需要彻底重新考虑应该如何采取行动来控制生物体，重新考虑我们要如何实质性的促进发展和新型药物的引入，比如抗生素药物处方，以及如何使用这些珍贵的资源。我们现在真的需要把它们当成自然资源。我们正站在一个岔路口。一种选择就是重新思考，谨慎的考虑相关的动机来改变我们的行事方式。另一种情况就是即便只是一片草叶子都可能成为一个世界的致命武器。
en:Now, what&#39;s common to all of these things isthe idea that we&#39;ve had these technologiesto control nature only for the last 70, 80 or 100 yearsand essentially in a blink,we have squandered our ability to control,because we have not recognizedthat natural selection and evolution was going to finda way to get back,and we need to completely rethinkhow we&#39;re going to usemeasures to control biological organisms,and rethink how we incentivizethe development, introduction,in the case of antibiotics prescription,and use of these valuable resources.And we really now need to start thinking about themas natural resources.And so we stand at a crossroads.An option is to go through that rethinkingand carefully consider incentivesto change how we do business.The alternative isa world in which even a blade of grassis a potentially lethal weapon.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:37
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
