时间： 0:12
zh-cn:现在是最振奋人心的时刻，让我们来领略一下最新的印度艺术作品。如今，印度的当代艺术家正以前所未有的方式和世界交流。我觉得对TED在座的长期收藏家，和本地收藏家来讲，对这十位年轻的印度艺术家有个大概的了解，是很有趣的。我同样希望TED的听众也对此感兴趣。
en:Right now is the most exciting timeto see new Indian art.Contemporary artists in India are having a conversation with the worldlike never before.I thought it might be interesting, even for the many long-timecollectors here with us at TED, local collectors,to have an outside view of 10 young Indian artistsI wish everyone at TED to know.
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:首先是巴哈提·科尔(Bharti Kher)。她作品的主要装饰图案是来自商店卖的已经做好的吉祥痣（印度妇女装饰额头中心的人工痣）。无数印度女性每天都把吉祥痣贴在额头，这和印度的婚姻制度紧密联系着。但起初吉祥痣的意义是象征着第三只眼，存在并联系着精神世界与宗教世界。巴哈提(Bharti) 称她致力于打破日常传统，她让吉祥痣变得更加炫丽。她也创作一些实物大小的玻璃纤维雕塑，一般以动物为题材，之后用吉祥痣覆盖整个雕塑，通常是用于覆盖有强大象征意义的雕塑。她说起初她用10袋吉祥痣，然后她想她能用一万袋吉祥痣做什么。
en:The first is Bharti Kher.The central motif of Bharti&#39;s practiceis the ready-made store-bought bindithat untold millions of Indian women apply to their foreheads,every day, in an act closely associated withthe institution of marriage.But originally the significance of the bindiis to symbolize the third eyebetween the spiritual world and the religious world.Bharti seeks to liberate this everyday cliche, as she calls it,by exploding it into something spectacular.She also creates life-size fiberglass sculptures, often of animals,which she then completely covers in bindis,often with potent symbolism.She says she first got started with10 packets of bindis,and then wondered what she could do with 10 thousand.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:下一位艺术家，巴拉苏布拉马尼亚姆（Balasubramaniam），他的作品站在了雕塑、绘画和装置艺术的十字路口，用玻璃钢创造出了奇迹般的作品。由于巴拉（ Bala）本人将在TED演讲，我今天就不再多花时间介绍他了，但我还是要说他确实是很成功的，他把无形变得有形。
en:Our next artist, Balasubramaniam,really stands at the crossroads of sculpture, painting and installation,working wonders with fiberglass.Since Bala himself will be speaking at TEDI won&#39;t spend too much time on him here today,except to say that he really succeedsat making the invisible visible.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:纽约的布鲁克林（Brooklyn）的居住的齐塔拉·格涅沙(Chitra Ganesh)，以她的数字拼贴画著称。她用印度连环漫画《亚玛·齐塔拉·卡萨》（印度最畅销的漫画书之一，《Amar Chitra Kathas》）作为他的主要参考素材。这些连环漫画提供了一种基本的学习途径，让那些印度孩子，尤其是给那些散居异乡的孩子学习他们的宗教以及民间神话故事。举个例子，我就很迷恋这些漫画。总的来说,齐塔拉（Chitra）重新组合和命名了这些标志性的形象，用他们梳理清楚一些有关性与性别的政治信仰，将它们融入令人印象深刻的连环画中。在她的雕塑装置艺术中也同样运用了语言技巧。
en:Brooklyn-based Chitra Ganeshis known for her digital collages,using Indian comic books called amar chitra kathasas her primary source material.These comics are a fundamental waythat children, especially in the diaspora,learn their religious and mythological folk tales.I, for one, was steeped in these.Chitra basically remixes and re-titlesthese iconic imagesto tease out some of the sexual and gender politicsembedded in these deeply influential comics.And she uses this vocabulary in her installation work as well.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:吉提希·卡拉特(Jitish Kallat) 成功的实现了摄影、雕塑、绘画和现代雕塑装置艺术的完美结合。你们可以看到，他深受涂鸦和街头艺术的影响，他的老家孟买 (Mumbai)也是他创作的永恒要素。他确实捕捉到了密集度和活力，而这正是现代孟买 (原名Bombay, 现名Mumbai，中文名没变) 城的标志。此外他还创作了一系列幻影似的的雕塑作品，用树脂浇铸的骨骼制作而成。他想象出一辆电动三轮车的残骸，他曾见到这辆三轮车在一起暴乱事件中烧为灰烬。
en:Jitish Kallat successfully practices across photography,sculpture, painting and installation.As you can see, he&#39;s heavily influencedby graffiti and street art,and his home city of Mumbai is an ever-present element in his work.He really captures that sense of densityand energy which really characterizes modern urban Bombay.He also creates phantasmagoric sculpturesmade of bones from cast resin.Here he envisions the carcassof an autorickshaw he once witnessed burning in a riot.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:下一位艺术家，N.S.哈莎(N.S.Harsha)事实上，他就在我现在演讲的印度的迈索尔（Mysore）有自己的画室。他在微型绘画作品中展现出当代艺术气息。创造出精美细致的人物，然后大规模的重复这些人物。如此将量形成质的飞跃，营造出惊人的效果，可以看到无论是在这个新加坡寺庙的屋顶上，还是在他宏伟的现代雕塑装置艺术作品中。这是192个正在工作的缝纫机，正在制造每一个联合国成员国的国旗。
en:This next artist, N.S. Harsha,actually has a studio right here in Mysore.He&#39;s putting a contemporary spin on the miniature tradition.He creates these fine, delicate imageswhich he then repeats on a massive scale.He uses scale to more and more spectacular effect,whether on the roof of a temple in Singapore,or in his increasingly ambitious installation work,here with 192 functioning sewing machines,fabricating the flags of every member of the United Nations.
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:孟买（Mumbai）居住的杜·阿查里亚（Dhruvi Acharya）基于他对漫画和街头艺术的喜爱，来表达她眼中当代印度妇女的角色和期望。她也同样挖掘了《亚玛·齐塔拉·卡萨》这部连环画的丰富资源，但是与前面介绍过的齐塔拉·格涅沙（Chitra Ganesh）有着截然不同的构思。在这个特别的作品中，她去除了人物，仅仅留下了文本，揭示那些不曾被人发现的、有煽动性的东西。
en:Mumbai-based Dhruvi Acharyabuilds on her love of comic books and street artto comment on the roles and expectationsof modern Indian women.She too mines the rich source material of amar chitra kathas,but in a very different way than Chitra Ganesh.In this particular work, she actually strips out the imagesand leaves the actual textto reveal something previously unseen, and provocative.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:拉齐布·沙出生于印度的加尔各答（Kolkata），在印度的克什米尔（Kashmir)长大，在伦敦(London) 学艺术。他也革新了微型绘画传统。他从希罗尼穆斯·波希（Hieronymus Bosch）以及他年轻时代克什米尔（Kashmiri）纺织业获得灵感，创作了这些华丽又生动的画面。事实上，他在画作中运用了金属工业涂料，用豪猪刺笔达到最丰富多彩的效果。
en:Raqib Shaw is Kolkata-born,Kashmir-raised,and London-trained.He too is reinventing the miniature tradition.He creates these opulent tableaus inspired by Hieronymus Bosch,but also by the Kashmiri textiles of his youth.He actually applies metallic industrial paints to his workusing porcupine quills to get this rich detailed effect.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:如果我说接下来的是一位艺术家的话，我就有欺骗之嫌了。因为 Raqs 媒体小组事实上是由三位艺术家组成的。Raqs 可能是当今印度多媒体艺术的先驱，它将摄影、影像和装置艺术结合于一身。他们经常挖掘全球化和城市化的主题，他们的家，印度的德里（Delhi）也经常成为他们作品的主题。这幅作品中，他们请观众分析一起犯罪事件，从5个不同屏幕上的不同陈述找寻证据以及线索，也许城市本身才是真正的罪犯。
en:I&#39;m kind of cheating with this next artistsince Raqs Media Collective are reallythree artists working together.Raqs are probably the foremost practitionersof multimedia art in India today,working across photography, video and installation.They frequently explore themes of globalization and urbanization,and their home of Delhi is a frequent element in their work.Here, they invite the viewer to analyze a crimelooking at evidence and clues embeddedin five narratives on these five different screens,in which the city itself may have been the culprit.
时间： 4:52
zh-cn:下一位或许是位印度当代艺术最有发言权的人物：Subodh Gupta （苏博德·古普塔）。他首先创作出巨型照片般仿真油画，日常用品的绘画作品，每个印度人都熟悉的不锈钢的厨房用具及午餐盒。他向世界展示了这些当地的平凡物件，在更大规模的创作中，他将这些物件容于更巨大的雕塑作品和现代雕塑装置艺术中。最后第十位，同样很重要的一位：
en:This next artist is probably the alpha maleof contemporary Indian art, Subodh Gupta.He was first known for creating giant photo-realistic canvases,paintings of everyday objects,the stainless steel kitchen vessels and tiffin containersknown to every Indian.He celebrates these local and mundane objects globally,and on a grander and grander scale,by incorporating them into ever more colossalsculptures and installations.And finally number 10, last and certainly not least,
时间： 5:26
zh-cn:Ranjani Shettar （班加尼·谢塔尔）她居住并工作在印度的卡纳塔克（Karnataka），致力于创作优雅的雕塑及雕塑装置艺术。她的作品确确实实将有机生命融入到了工业，像苏博德（Sudodh）一样，将本地文化传扬到全世界。这些实际上是细布包着的金属丝浸泡在植物染料而成的。她这样布局使观赏者感受在太空中遨游，并且有与这些物体交流接触的感觉。在她的作品中，光线和光影是十分重要的。除了这些作品，她同样探寻一些其他主题，比如消费主义，以及环境。就像这幅作品：酷似篮子的物体看上去是绿色有机物和编织，它们确实是编织而成的，用钢条—从班加罗尔的废品旧货场的报废汽车上回收利用编织而成的。
en:Ranjani Shettar,who lives and works here in the state of Karnataka,creates ethereal sculptures and installationsthat really marry the organic to the industrial,and brings, like Subodh, the local global.These are actually wires wrapped in muslinand steeped in vegetable dye.And she arranges them so that the vieweractually has to navigate through the space,and interact with the objects.And light and shadow are a very important part of her work.She also explores themes of consumerism,and the environment, such as in this work,where these basket-like objects look organic and woven,and are woven,but with the strips of steel, salvaged from carsthat she found in a Bangalore junkyard.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:十位艺术家，六分钟，我知道大家要吸收的内容太多。但我只希望我能够促进大家的食欲，是大家走出来并了解更多发生在印度现代艺术的各种不可思议的事情。非常感谢大家的观赏！（鼓掌）
en:10 artists, six minutes, I know that was a lot to take in.But I can only hope I&#39;ve whet your appetiteto go out and see and learn moreabout the amazing things that are happening in art in India today.Thank you very much for looking and listening.(Applause)
