时间： 0:11
zh-cn:一个月前的今天我在这那里。南纬90度，在世界底部的顶端，地理位置上的南极之端。和我一起的还有我两个最好的朋友，理查德韦伯和凯文维勒利我们一起打破了徒步穿越南极的世界最快纪录。用时33天，23个小时55分钟。比上次最快纪录提前了5天。在这个过程中，我成为历史上第一个完成整个六百五十英里旅程的人，从大力士站到南极，徒步，不用雪橇。
en:A month ago todayI stood there:90 degrees south, the top ofthe bottom of the world, the Geographic South Pole.And I stood there beside two very good friends of mine,Richard Weber and Kevin Vallely.Together we had just broken the world speed recordfor a trek to the South Pole.It took us 33 days,23 hours and 55 minutes to get there.We shaved five days off the previous best time.And in the process, I became the first person in historyto make the entire 650-mile journey,from Hercules Inlet to South Pole,solely on feet, without skis.
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:现在，你们中的很多人大概会问，&quot;等等，这很难吗？&quot;（笑）想像一下，如果你将要想视频里的那样，拖动一个雪橇，上面有重达170磅的行李，里面装的是你在南极苦旅重所需的所有工具。每一天都将是零下40度，你将迎风前进。有些时候你还必须去越过这些冰上的裂缝，这些裂缝。有些裂缝的下面就是岌岌可危的薄天桥这些可以给你一个大概的印象，拽着雪橇，你，在深渊中，在也不会被别人看到。这个旅途的重点是什么？看看地平线。没错，整个就是一次艰难的旅行。因为南极位于10000英尺的地方而你要从海平面出发。
en:Now, many of you are probably saying, &quot;Wait a sec,is this tough to do?&quot;(Laughter)Imagine, if you will,dragging a sled, as you just saw in that video clip,with 170 pounds of gear,in it everything you need to survive on your Antarctic trek.It&#39;s going to be 40 below, every single day.You&#39;ll be in a massive headwind.And at some point you&#39;re going to have to cross these cracks in the ice,these crevasses.Some of them have a very precarious thin footbridge underneath themthat could give way at a moment&#39;s notice,taking your sled, you, into the abyss, never to be seen again.The punchline to your journey? Look at the horizon.Yes, it&#39;s uphill the entire way,because the South Pole is at 10,000 feet,and you&#39;re starting at sea level.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:实际上我们的旅途不是从大力士站开始的，在从冻海和南极土地接壤的地方。大概就在不到两年之前。我和我的一群伙伴刚跑完了为时111天的撒哈拉大沙漠穿越。在那里我们体会到了南非严重的水危机。我们也学到了南非人民所要面对的众多问题尤其是年轻人所遇到的。当我完成了111天的沙漠慢跑回到家中，回到我妻子的身边。我说道，&quot;你知道，毫无疑问，如果这个波座民族可以跨越沙漠我们就可以干我们想干的任何事情。&quot;但是如果我要继续这些冒险，就必须要有坚持下去的动力而不仅仅只是到达那里。
en:Our journey did not, in fact, begin at Hercules Inlet,where frozen ocean meets the land of Antarctica.It began a little less than two years ago.A couple of buddies of mine and Ihad finished a 111-day run across the entire Sahara desert.And while we were there we learnedthe seriousness of the water crisis in Northern Africa.We also learned that many of the issues facing the people of Northern Africaaffected young people the most.I came home to my wife after 111 days of running in the sand,and I said, &quot;You know, there&#39;s no doubt if this bozo can get across the desert,we are capable of doing anything we set our minds to.&quot;But if I&#39;m going to continue doing these adventures, there has to bea reason for me to do thembeyond just getting there.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:那时侯我遇到了一个了不起的人，彼得图姆，就是他用他的行为启发了我。他正在试图找到解决全球水危机的方法。他的奉献和投入启发了我的这次远征。一个南极漫步，同时，一个互动的网站，我将和全世界的年轻人，学生和老师一起出发，大家都是这次活动的成员。所以我们将会有一个互动的有趣的网站，在33天中的每一天里，我们会写博客，讲一些故事，你知道的，耗竭的臭氧层，被迫我们遮盖住我们的脸，要不然我们就像被点燃一般。穿过一里又一里的冰脊 —穿过半身深的冰冷冰山。我来告诉你吧，带着170磅的雪橇穿越这些地理环境，就像带着1700磅的雪橇一样，因为我们感觉他们就像那样一般重。
en:Around that time I met an extraordinary human being,Peter Thum, who inspired me with his actions.He&#39;s trying to find and solve water issues, the crisis around the world.His dedication inspired me to come up with this expedition:a run to the South Polewhere, with an interactive website,I will be able to bring young people, students and teachers from around the worldon board the expedition with me,as active members.So we would have a live website, that every single day of the 33 days,we would be blogging, telling stories of,you know, depleted ozone forcing us to cover our faces,or we will burn.Crossing miles and miles of sastrugi —frozen ice snowdrifts that could be hip-deep.I&#39;m telling you, crossing these things with 170-pound sled,that sled may as well have weighed 1,700 pounds,because that&#39;s what it felt like.
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:我们每天通过网站写博客写给那些在关注我们的学生，每天10个小时、15个小时的苦行，有时候为了达到目标我们必须坚持20个小时。顺便提一句。我们也会在零下49度的环境下在我们的雪橇里打个盹。学生们、全世界的人，都会问我们一些问题。年轻人会问到一些最奇妙的问题。
en:We were blogging to this live website dailyto these students that were tracking us as well,about 10-hour trekking days,15-hour trekking days,sometimes 20 hours of trekking daily to meet our goal.We&#39;d catch cat-naps at 40 below on our sled, incidentally.In turn, students,people from around the world, would ask us questions.Young people would ask the most amazing questions.
时间： 3:29
zh-cn:我最喜欢的一个是: 在零下40度里，你必须去上厕所，你会去哪，以及你怎样去解决？我不会在这回答。但是我会回答一些更多被提及的问题。
en:One of my favorite: It&#39;s 40 below, you&#39;ve got to go to the bathroom,where are you going to go and how are you going to do it?I&#39;m not going to answer that. But I will answer some of the more popular questions.
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:我们在哪睡觉？我们在一个十分靠近地面的帐篷里睡觉。因为南极的风是如此之大，会把所有其他的东西都刮走。
en:Where do you sleep? We slept in a tent that was very low to the ground,because the winds on Antarctica were so extreme, it would blow anything else away.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:我们吃什么？这是我远征的招牌菜之一，黄油加熏肉，它大约100万卡路里。我们每天要消耗掉8500卡路里。所用我们需要它。
en:What do you eat? One of my favorite dishes on expedition:butter and bacon. It&#39;s about a million calories.We were burning about 8,500 a day,so we needed it.
时间： 3:57
zh-cn:你们要为所有的设备带上多少个电池？实际上没有。所有的设备，包括录像器材，都是靠太阳提供能量。
en:How many batteries do you carry for all the equipment that you have?Virtually none. All of our equipment, including film equipment,was charged by the sun.
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:还有你们相处的好吗？我当然希望是这样。因为在这次的远征里，我们必须时不时的拿一个巨大的针头刺进队友感染的水泡里，然后把积水抽出来。
en:And do you get along? I certainly hope so,because at some point or another on this expedition,one of your teammates is going to have to take a very big needle,and put it in an infected blister, and drain it for you.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:但是，真的，真的，我们相处的很好。因为我们都有去启发青年人的共同的目标。他们就是我的队友！他们也在启发着我们。我们所听到的故事支持着我们到达了南极。网站双向沟通运作的十份不错。南加拿大的小学学生，拽着雪橇通过校园，假装着他们是理查德，雷和凯文。真是美妙。
en:But seriously, seriously, we did get along,because we had a common goal of wanting to inspire these young people.They were our teammates! They were inspiring us.The stories we were hearing got us to the South Pole.The website worked brilliantly as a two-way street of communication.Young people in northern Canada, kids in an elementary school,dragging sleds across the school-yard,pretending they were Richard, Ray and Kevin. Amazing.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:我们到达了南极后。我们挤入了那个帐篷，那天是零下45度，我一辈子都不会忘记。我们看这对方的脸上都显现出不相信我们已经完成了的表情。然后我记得我当时看了看他们，想&quot;我在旅途中学到什么？&quot;你知道？真的。我这有着市区耐力般的家伙？
en:We arrived at the South Pole. We huddled into that tent,45 below that day, I&#39;ll never forget it.We looked at each other with these looksof disbelief at what we had just completed.And I remember looking at the guys thinking,&quot;What do I take from this journey?&quot; You know? Seriously.That I&#39;m this uber-endurance guy?
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:我今天站在这里和大家交流，总共算起来我这已经跑了5年。在这几年前，我每天抽一包烟。过着亚健康的生活。我在旅途中，所有旅途中学到的，那就是，我和我每一个信念共同站在这，我知道我们可以把不可能的做到可能。我在40岁学到了这个。你可以想像到吗？真的，你可以想像到吗？我在40岁的时候在学这些。想像下一个13岁的孩子，听到这些话，然后相信它们。十分感谢你们，谢谢。掌声
en:As I stand here today talking to you guys,I&#39;ve been running for the grand sum of five years.And a year before that I was a pack-a-day smoker,living a very sedentary lifestyle.What I take from this journey, from my journeys,is that, in fact,within every fiber of my belief standing here,I know that we can make the impossible possible.I&#39;m learning this at 40.Can you imagine? Seriously, can you imagine?I&#39;m learning this at 40 years of age.Imagine being 13 years old,hearing those words, and believing it.Thank you very much. Thank you.(Applause)
