时间： 0:11
zh-cn:好，很高兴来到这里。我们听到了很多关于科技的承诺，和未来的隐患。我一直对这两者都很感兴趣。如果我们将落在地球上的阳光的0.03%转化成能量，预计将可以满足我们2030年的能源需求。现在我们还不能，因为今天的太阳能板笨重，昂贵，且效率很低。不过现在有纳米工程设计的太阳板，它们从理论分析上来说可以变得很轻很便宜，且效率很高。而且我们将可以用这种可再生的方法提供我们所需的能量。纳米工程燃料电池可以为需要的地方提供能量。分散式分布是一个关键的趋势从集中式的核电厂，液体天然气储存储罐到分散分布的能源会更加环保，效率更高且在灾难中更加安全。
en:Well, it&#39;s great to be here.We&#39;ve heard a lot about the promise of technology, and the peril.I&#39;ve been quite interested in both.If we could convert 0.03 percentof the sunlight that falls on the earth into energy,we could meet all of our projected needs for 2030.We can&#39;t do that today because solar panels are heavy,expensive and very inefficient.There are nano-engineered designs,which at least have been analyzed theoretically,that show the potential to be very lightweight,very inexpensive, very efficient,and we&#39;d be able to actually provide all of our energy needs in this renewable way.Nano-engineered fuel cellscould provide the energy where it&#39;s needed.That&#39;s a key trend, which is decentralization,moving from centralized nuclear power plants andliquid natural gas tankersto decentralized resources that are environmentally more friendly,a lot more efficientand capable and safe from disruption.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:Bono 雄辩地指出我们第一次使用工具来对待疾病和贫困这些古老的问题。世界上大部分地区已经朝那个方向前进。1990年，在东亚和太平洋地区，有5亿人生活在贫困里-这个数字现在是2亿。世界银行预测在2011年，这个数字将会在2000万以下。下降了95％。我很喜欢 Bono 的观点把嬉皮区和硅谷连在一起。作为马萨诸塞州的高科技社区的一员我要指出我们也曾经是1960年时代的嬉皮，尽管我们是在哈佛广场附近活动。但是我们拥有克服疾病和贫困的潜力。而且我要说一说这些问题，如果我们有这个愿望的话。
en:Bono spoke very eloquently,that we have the tools, for the first time,to address age-old problems of disease and poverty.Most regions of the world are moving in that direction.In 1990, in East Asia and the Pacific region,there were 500 million people living in poverty —that number now is under 200 million.The World Bank projects by 2011, it will be under 20 million,which is a reduction of 95 percent.I did enjoy Bono&#39;s commentlinking Haight-Ashbury to Silicon Valley.Being from the Massachusetts high-tech community myself,I&#39;d point out that we were hippies also in the 1960s,although we hung around Harvard Square.But we do have the potential to overcome disease and poverty,and I&#39;m going to talk about those issues, if we have the will.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:Kevin Kelly 说到了关于科技的加速我一直对这很感兴趣，而且这个主题是我30年来一直在研究的。我意识到在我完成我的项目时，这些技术要有意义。在这个始终不变的前提下，每当我引进一个技术时世界已经不再是原来的世界了。还有，我发现大部分的发明失败了，不是因为研发部门不能让它运作 —如果你看一看大部分的企业计划书，他们其实是会成功的如果给他们机会让他们建造计划要建造的东西，而其百分之90的这些项目会失败，原因是时机不对－－不是所有成功所需的因素都会在需要它们时出现。
en:Kevin Kelly talked about the acceleration of technology.That&#39;s been a strong interest of mine,and a theme that I&#39;ve developed for some 30 years.I realized that my technologies had to make sense when I finished a project.That invariably, the world was a different placewhen I would introduce a technology.And, I noticed that most inventions fail,not because the R&amp;D department can&#39;t get it to work —if you look at most business plans, they will actually succeedif given the opportunity to build what they say they&#39;re going to build —and 90 percent of those projects or more will fail, because the timing is wrong —not all the enabling factors will be in place when they&#39;re needed.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:因此，我成为一个对技术发展趋势很热衷的学生，并关注在不同的时间点，科技将会变成什么样子，并且开始建造其数学模型。这个项目已经形成了一个自己的生命，我有一个10人的小组和我一起来收集数据，这些数据是反映不同领域科技的重要指标，并据此，我们建造模型。然后你会听到有人说，我们不能预测未来。且如果你问我，谷歌的股价3年后会比今天高还是低，那是很难说。WiMax CDMA G3 会不会成为3年后无线领域的标准？那很难说。但是如果你问我，在2010年每秒百万次计算的成本或者一个DNA碱基对的排序在2012年的成本，或者是在2014年无线发送一兆字节数据的成本，这些东西是非常可以预测的。
en:So I began to be an ardent student of technology trends,and track where technology would be at different points in time,and began to build the mathematical models of that.It&#39;s kind of taken on a life of its own.I&#39;ve got a group of 10 people that work with me to gather dataon key measures of technology in many different areas, and we build models.And you&#39;ll hear people say, well, we can&#39;t predict the future.And if you ask me,will the price of Google be higher or lower than it is today three years from now,that&#39;s very hard to say.Will WiMax CDMA G3be the wireless standard three years from now? That&#39;s hard to say.But if you ask me, what will it costfor one MIPS of computing in 2010,or the cost to sequence a base pair of DNA in 2012,or the cost of sending a megabyte of data wirelessly in 2014,it turns out that those are very predictable.
时间： 3:33
zh-cn:这些有十分平滑的指数曲线来反应性价比，容量和带宽。我要给你看一个这个的小例子，但是这里其实有一个理论上的原因为什么科技在一个指数形势发展。有很多人，当他们考虑到未来，用线性的方法来思想。他们认为他们会持续发展一个问题或者用今天的工具，和今天的发展速度来诠释未来的问题，但是没有考虑到指数的发展模式。
en:There are remarkably smooth exponential curvesthat govern price performance, capacity, bandwidth.And I&#39;m going to show you a small sample of this,but there&#39;s really a theoretical reasonwhy technology develops in an exponential fashion.And a lot of people, when they think about the future, think about it linearly.They think they&#39;re going to continueto develop a problemor address a problem using today&#39;s tools,at today&#39;s pace of progress,and fail to take into consideration this exponential growth.
时间： 4:02
zh-cn:基因组计划曾经在1990年是一个有争议的项目。我们有我们最好的博士学生，世界各地最先进的设备，在世界范围呢，我们完成了项目的万分之一，那么，我们怎么能在15年里完成这个项目呢？在这个项目进展10年的时候，怀疑的态度还是非常的强大 — 说“你已经进入到这个项目的三分之二了，而你仅仅完成了整个基因组工程非常小部分的排序。但是这是指数增长的本质当到了曲线的转折点时，它会爆炸。大部分的项目是在项目的最后几年完成的。我们用了15年完成了艾滋病毒的排序 —而对于非典病毒只用了31天。所以我们正在增加克服这些困难的可能性。
en:The Genome Project was a controversial project in 1990.We had our best Ph.D. students,our most advanced equipment around the world,we got 1/10,000th of the project done,so how&#39;re we going to get this done in 15 years?And 10 years into the project,the skeptics were still going strong — says, &quot;You&#39;re two-thirds through this project,and you&#39;ve managed to only sequencea very tiny percentage of the whole genome.&quot;But it&#39;s the nature of exponential growththat once it reaches the knee of the curve, it explodes.Most of the project was done in the lastfew years of the project.It took us 15 years to sequence HIV —we sequenced SARS in 31 days.So we are gaining the potential to overcome these problems.
时间： 4:40
zh-cn:我要给你看几个例子说明这个现象是多么的普遍。根据我们的模型，事实的思维转化率，也就是新想法被接受的速率，每十几年增加一倍。这些都是对数图，就好比每当你提高它代表的一个等级，一般来讲会乘以10或者100。我们用了半个世纪来采用电话，第一个虚拟现实的科技。只用了8年就接受了手机。如果你把不同的通信科技放在这个对数图上，电视，收音机，电话都用了几十年才被采用。最近的科技 — 像电脑，网络，手机 —是十年以下。这是一个有意思的图表，而其这个通道最基本的原因为什么一个进化过程 — 生物学和科技都是进化过程 —加速。他们是一种互动的运转 — 他们创造一个能力，然后用那个能力来推进到下一个层次。
en:I&#39;m going to show you just a few examplesof how pervasive this phenomena is.The actual paradigm-shift rate, the rate of adopting new ideas,is doubling every decade, according to our models.These are all logarithmic graphs,so as you go up the levels it represents, generally multiplying by factor of 10 or 100.It took us half a century to adopt the telephone,the first virtual-reality technology.Cell phones were adopted in about eight years.If you put different communication technologieson this logarithmic graph,television, radio, telephonewere adopted in decades.Recent technologies — like the PC, the web, cell phones —were under a decade.Now this is an interesting chart,and this really gets at the fundamental reason whyan evolutionary process — and both biology and technology are evolutionary processes —accelerate.They work through interaction — they create a capability,and then it uses that capability to bring on the next stage.
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:生物进化的第一步，DNA的进化 — 其实是先有的RNA —用了几十亿年，但是以后的进化过程是用这个信息处理支柱来促使下一个层次。所以寒武纪大爆发，当所有动物的身体结构进化了用了才一千万年。快了200倍。然后进化过程用这些身体结构来进化出更高级的认知功能，而且生物进化一直在加速。这是一个进化过程固有的性质。所以智人，第一个创造科技的物种，把认知功能和大拇指运动结合的物种 —顺便提一下，黑猩猩其实没有一个非常好的大拇指 —所以我们可以用很强的握力来操纵我们的环境和好的动作协调，和用我们的心智模式来真正改变世界而且带来科技。
en:So the first step in biological evolution,the evolution of DNA — actually it was RNA came first —took billions of years,but then evolution used that information-processing backboneto bring on the next stage.So the Cambrian Explosion, when all the body plans of the animals were evolved,took only 10 million years. It was 200 times faster.And then evolution used those body plansto evolve higher cognitive functions,and biological evolution kept accelerating.It&#39;s an inherent nature of an evolutionary process.So Homo sapiens, the first technology-creating species,the species that combined a cognitive functionwith an opposable appendage —and by the way, chimpanzees don&#39;t really have a very good opposable thumb —so we could actually manipulate our environment with a power gripand fine motor coordination,and use our mental models to actually change the worldand bring on technology.
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:但是总而言之，我们这个物种的进化用了几十万年，然后通过互动的运转,从本质上来讲，进化运用这种科技来创造下一代物种,这是科技进化的第一步。而且这第一步用了几万年 —石器，火，和轮子 - 一直加速。我们一直用当时最新一代的科技来创造下一代。印刷机用了一个世纪来被采用，第一个电脑是用笔和纸来设计的 - 现在我们用电脑来设计。我们在这个过程是不断加速的。
en:But anyway, the evolution of our species took hundreds of thousands of years,and then working through interaction,evolution used, essentially,the technology-creating species to bring on the next stage,which were the first steps in technological evolution.And the first step took tens of thousands of years —stone tools, fire, the wheel — kept accelerating.We always used then the latest generation of technologyto create the next generation.Printing press took a century to be adopted;the first computers were designed pen-on-paper — now we use computers.And we&#39;ve had a continual acceleration of this process.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:顺便说一下，如果你在一个线性图上看这个，好像所有的东西顺其自然地发生，但是一次观察者说，“嗯, Kurzweil 是有意把这些点放在了这个直线图上。”所以，一共用了15个不同重要思想家的列表，像大英百科全书，自然历史博物馆，卡尔萨根的宇宙日历而这些人并没有试着证明我的观点，他们只是列举参考文献。我想这就是他们所认为的在生物进化和科技进化中的关键事件。再次，它形成相同的直线。因为人们有不同的意见，关于什么是要点人们对农业什么时候开始的有着不同的意见，或者什么时候 — 寒武纪大爆发用了多长时间。但是有一个非常明显的趋势。进化过程有一个基本的，深奥的加速。信息技术的能力，性价比，带宽，每年增加一倍。这是一个非常深奥的指数增长爆炸。一个个人的经验，当我在麻省理工学院-计算机大概是这个房间大，性能比你手机里的电脑还弱。但是根据摩尔定律，经常和这个成倍增一起认定，只是很多例子里的一个，因为它基本是科技进化过程的一个性质。
en:Now by the way, if you look at this on a linear graph, it looks like everything has just happened,but some observer says, &quot;Well, Kurzweil just put points on this graphthat fall on that straight line.&quot;So, I took 15 different lists from key thinkers,like the Encyclopedia Britannica, the Museum of Natural History, Carl Sagan&#39;s Cosmic Calendaron the same — and these people were not trying to make my point;these were just lists in reference works,and I think that&#39;s what they thought the key events werein biological evolution and technological evolution.And again, it forms the same straight line. You have a little bit of thickening in the linebecause people do have disagreements, what the key points are,there&#39;s differences of opinion when agriculture started,or how long the Cambrian Explosion took.But you see a very clear trend.There&#39;s a basic, profound acceleration of this evolutionary process.Information technologies double their capacity, price performance, bandwidth,every year.And that&#39;s a very profound explosion of exponential growth.A personal experience, when I was at MIT —computer taking up about the size of this room,less powerful than the computer in your cell phone.But Moore&#39;s Law, which is very often identified with this exponential growth,is just one example of many, because it&#39;s basicallya property of the evolutionary process of technology.
时间： 8:13
zh-cn:如果我们-我把49个著名的电脑放在这个对数图上-顺便说一下，一条直线在一个对数图，是成倍增 -那是另一个成倍。我们用了三年把1900年的计算的性价比翻倍。中间是两年，我们现在每一年增加一倍。这是通过5种不同模式的成倍增。摩尔定律只是最后的部分，在一个积体电路，被缩小的晶体管，但我们有机电计算器，继电器为基础的计算机破译了德国的密码，真空管在上世纪50年代预测到艾森豪威尔的当选，首次太空飞行使用的离散晶体管然后是摩尔定律。每当一个范例被用尽了，另一个范例从左外野出来继续这个成倍增长。他们曾经缩小真空管，使他们越来越小。这撞上了墙。他们无法继续收缩并保留真空。完全不同的范例-木工出来的晶体管。事实上，当我们看到一个特定范例的结束线时，它会创建研究的压力来创造下一个的范例。而且因为我们一直在预测摩尔定律终点用了相当长的时间-第一次预测说2002年，到现在它说2022年。但是到了23世纪，晶体管的特点将会是几个原子的宽度我们将无法继续把它缩小。这将结束摩尔定律，但这不会结束计算的倍数增长，因为芯片是平的。我们生活在一个三维的世界，我们也应该利用第三纬。我们将会走入第三纬而且它已经在最近几年有了惊人的进展，包括运用三维的，自组织分子电路来工作。我们将会在莫尔定律走到尽头以前准备好。超级计算机也是一样。以英特尔处理器的性能为例，看一下晶体管的价格－－在1968年，一美元可以买一个晶体管。而在2002年，一美元可以买一千万个。
en:I put 49 famous computers on this logarithmic graph —by the way, a straight line on a logarithmic graph is exponential growth —that&#39;s another exponential.It took us three years to double our price performance of computing in 1900,two years in the middle; we&#39;re now doubling it every one year.And that&#39;s exponential growth through five different paradigms.Moore&#39;s Law was just the last part of that,where we were shrinking transistors on an integrated circuit,but we had electro-mechanical calculators,relay-based computers that cracked the German Enigma Code,vacuum tubes in the 1950s predicted the election of Eisenhower,discreet transistors used in the first space flightsand then Moore&#39;s Law.Every time one paradigm ran out of steam,another paradigm came out of left field to continue the exponential growth.They were shrinking vacuum tubes, making them smaller and smaller.That hit a wall. They couldn&#39;t shrink them and keep the vacuum.Whole different paradigm — transistors came out of the woodwork.In fact, when we see the end of the line for a particular paradigm,it creates research pressure to create the next paradigm.And because we&#39;ve been predicting the end of Moore&#39;s Lawfor quite a long time — the first prediction said 2002, until now it says 2022.But by the teen years,the features of transistors will be a few atoms in width,and we won&#39;t be able to shrink them any more.That&#39;ll be the end of Moore&#39;s Law, but it won&#39;t be the end ofthe exponential growth of computing, because chips are flat.We live in a three-dimensional world; we might as well use the third dimension.We will go into the third dimensionand there&#39;s been tremendous progress, just in the last few years,of getting three-dimensional, self-organizing molecular circuits to work.We&#39;ll have those ready well before Moore&#39;s Law runs out of steam.Supercomputers — same thing.Processor performance on Intel chips,the average price of a transistor —1968, you could buy one transistor for a dollar.You could buy 10 million in 2002.
时间：10:04
zh-cn:这是一个非常显著的平顺的指数过程。你会认为这是一个实验桌上的结果，但是我认为这个是一个世界范围内，无章法的行为的结果－－各个国家指责彼此倾销商品，首次公开发行股票，破产，市场活动。你会认为这是一个非常不确定的过程，而你会看到这样一个混乱的过程的结果是非常平顺的。正如我们无法预测汽油中的一个分子如何运动一样－－我们是无法预测一个分子的－－但是运用热力学，我们可以非常准确低知道作为一个整体，汽油有什么样的性质。这里是一样的。我们无法预测某一个项目会怎样，但是可以知道世界范围内的趋势－－世界范围内的，无序的，不可预测的竞争。科技进步的过程是可以被很好预测的。而我们可以预言科技进步的未来趋势。不象Gertrude Stein的玫瑰，这病不是一个晶体管是一个晶体管。当我们把他们做地越来越小时，电子运动的距离会变小。他们的运动非常快，所以我们会发现晶体管的性能的指数性增长，进而，晶体管的价格将会在每1.1年下降一半。加入一种创新和另一种处理器的设计，你将会使计算的性价比每年提高一倍。
en:It&#39;s pretty remarkable how smoothan exponential process that is.I mean, you&#39;d think this is the result of some tabletop experiment,but this is the result of worldwide chaotic behavior —countries accusing each other of dumping products,IPOs, bankruptcies, marketing programs.You would think it would be a very erratic process,and you have a very smoothoutcome of this chaotic process.Just as we can&#39;t predictwhat one molecule in a gas will do —it&#39;s hopeless to predict a single molecule —yet we can predict the properties of the whole gas,using thermodynamics, very accurately.It&#39;s the same thing here. We can&#39;t predict any particular project,but the result of this whole worldwide,chaotic, unpredictable activity of competitionand the evolutionary process of technology is very predictable.And we can predict these trends far into the future.Unlike Gertrude Stein&#39;s roses,it&#39;s not the case that a transistor is a transistor.As we make them smaller and less expensive,the electrons have less distance to travel.They&#39;re faster, so you&#39;ve got exponential growth in the speed of transistors,so the cost of a cycle of one transistorhas been coming down with a halving rate of 1.1 years.You add other forms of innovation and processor design,you get a doubling of price performance of computing every one year.
时间：11:23
zh-cn:这其实就是价格下降－－50％的价格下降。而这不仅仅是计算机。这对于基因组序列和大脑的扫描，和国际互联网也是成立的。我的意思是对于任何我们可以量化的东西，我们有几百种不同的指标不同的信息相关的指标－－存储量，采用率－－他们几乎每12，13 或15个月就要翻一番，关键在于我们如何看待。对于性价比，这是一个百分之50 到 百分之40 的价格下降。而经济学家已经开始担心这些。我们在经济萧条的时候会经历价格下降，通货紧缩，但是那是由于货币的供应崩溃，消费者信心的崩溃，一个完全不同的现象。这是由于生产力的极大提高，但是经济学家说：“没有办法来保持这样的节奏。”如果有50％的价格下降，人们的购买量会增加百分之30－40，但是没办法保持这个增长。但是我们真正看到的是我们不仅仅是保持。我们看到在过去的50年里，信息产业的美元在以每年28％的复合增长速度增长。我的意思是，人们不会在10年制造价值10,000美元的iPod.当性价比使得新应用称为可能，这些新的应用将走向市场。这是一个非常广泛的现象。磁存储技术－－这不是摩尔定律，这个缩小磁点，不同的工程师，不同公司，但是相同的指数增长过程。
en:And that&#39;s basically deflation —50 percent deflation.And it&#39;s not just computers. I mean, it&#39;s true of DNA sequencing;it&#39;s true of brain scanning;it&#39;s true of the World Wide Web. I mean, anything that we can quantify,we have hundreds of different measurementsof different, information-related measurements —capacity, adoption rates —and they basically double every 12, 13, 15 months,depending on what you&#39;re looking at.In terms of price performance, that&#39;s a 40 to 50 percent deflation rate.And economists have actually started worrying about that.We had deflation during the Depression,but that was collapse of the money supply,collapse of consumer confidence, a completely different phenomena.This is due to greater productivity,but the economist says, &quot;But there&#39;s no way you&#39;re going to be able to keep up with that.If you have 50 percent deflation, people may increase their volume30, 40 percent, but they won&#39;t keep up with it.&quot;But what we&#39;re actually seeing is thatwe actually more than keep up with it.We&#39;ve had 28 percent per year compounded growth in dollarsin information technology over the last 50 years.I mean, people didn&#39;t build iPods for 10,000 dollars 10 years ago.As the price performance makes new applications feasible,new applications come to the market.And this is a very widespread phenomena.Magnetic data storage —that&#39;s not Moore&#39;s Law, it&#39;s shrinking magnetic spots,different engineers, different companies, same exponential process.
时间：12:43
zh-cn:一个关键性革命是我们通过信息，了解了我们自身的生命体。我们懂得了让我们的机体运转的软件程序。这些都是在不同的时间进化－－实际上，我们会改变这些程序。一个叫做脂肪胰岛素受体基因的软件，简单地说, 要合理使用每个卡路里，因为下一个狩猎季节也许不会很顺利。这是千百年前，复合物种生存条件的一个例子。我们现在关掉这个程序。我们把它用到其他动物身上，老鼠们非常贪婪地吃着，并且保持着很瘦地身材，而且更加健康。他们不会得糖尿病，也没有心脏病。他们的寿命延长了20％，他们从卡路里的约束中得到了更加健康。四五个制药公司已经注意到了这一点。觉得这将会称为市场上非常有趣的药品，而那只是30,000个影响我们生物化学的基因中的一个。
en:A key revolution is that we&#39;re understanding our own biologyin these information terms.We&#39;re understanding the software programsthat make our body run.These were evolved in very different times —we&#39;d like to actually change those programs.One little software program, called the fat insulin receptor gene,basically says, &quot;Hold onto every calorie,because the next hunting season may not work out so well.&quot;That was in the interests of the species tens of thousands of years ago.We&#39;d like to actually turn that program off.They tried that in animals, and these mice ate ravenouslyand remained slim and got the health benefits of being slim.They didn&#39;t get diabetes; they didn&#39;t get heart disease;they lived 20 percent longer; they got the health benefits of caloric restrictionwithout the restriction.Four or five pharmaceutical companies have noticed this,felt that would beinteresting drug for the human market,and that&#39;s just one of the 30,000 genesthat affect our biochemistry.
时间：13:38
zh-cn:我们发展进化的时代是这样一个时代，像在座的各位，包括我在内希望活得更长，但是却事与愿违。因为我们正在用尽宝贵的资源，这些资源可以被我们的子孙后代以及更在意这些资源的人所更好地利用。所以，生命，长寿30年以上的寿命并不是自然选择的结果而是我们通过生命科技的进步来学习如何控制这些程序的结果。例如，我们可以通过影响RNA来抑制某些基因。这些令人兴奋的新的基因疗法成功地实现了将这些基因材料放置染色体的正确位置。现在，第一次出现了能够治愈肺动脉高血压症这样一个致命病症地人体实验这都是运用的基因疗法。所以，我们不仅仅是有了婴儿的设计师，更是婴儿潮地设计师。而这个技术也是在加速发展。在1990年，每个碱基对要花10美元，2000年只需要一美分。现在是十分之一分。基因数据每年增长一倍基本上来说是指数增长，这个发展会促进基因组测序计划的成功。
en:We were evolved in an era where it wasn&#39;t in the interests of peopleat the age of most people at this conference, like myself,to live much longer, because we were using up the precious resourceswhich were better deployed towards the childrenand those caring for them.So, life — long lifespans —like, that is to say, much more than 30 —weren&#39;t selected for,but we are learning to actually manipulateand change these software programsthrough the biotechnology revolution.For example, we can inhibit genes now with RNA interference.There are exciting new forms of gene therapythat overcome the problem of placing the genetic materialin the right place on the chromosome.There&#39;s actually a — for the first time now,something going to human trials, that actually cures pulmonary hypertension —a fatal disease — using gene therapy.So we&#39;ll have not just designer babies, but designer baby boomers.And this technology is also accelerating.It cost 10 dollars per base pair in 1990,then a penny in 2000.It&#39;s now under a 10th of a cent.The amount of genetic data —basically this shows that smooth exponential growthdoubled every year,enabling the genome project to be completed.
时间：14:47
zh-cn:另一项重要的革命是通信革命。从性价比，带宽，通信容量来看，有线和无线通信都是指数增长。从各个方面看，国际互联网的能量已经翻番并还将继续。这长图是基于主机的数量。
en:Another major revolution: the communications revolution.The price performance, bandwidth, capacity of communications measured many different ways;wired, wireless is growing exponentially.The Internet has been doubling in power and continues to,measured many different ways.This is based on the number of hosts.
时间：15:05
zh-cn:小型化，我们缩小这个技术的速度是指数增长的。无论是有线还是无线。从Eric Drexler书中的设计来看，我们所展示的，都是超级计算模拟出可行的设计，科学家们正在制造分子级的机器人。某些机器人非常令人惊讶地以人类的步态行走。那是由分子建造的。一些小机器已经在实验室环境中成型。最令人兴奋的前景实际上是在人体内部完成治疗和诊断的功能。这并没有看起来那么遥远。这些机器人已经运用在了动物实验上。
en:Miniaturization — we&#39;re shrinking the size of technologyat an exponential rate,both wired and wireless.These are some designs from Eric Drexler&#39;s book —which we&#39;re now showing are feasiblewith super-computing simulations,where actually there are scientists buildingmolecule-scale robots.One has one that actually walks with a surprisingly human-like gait,that&#39;s built out of molecules.There are little machines doing things in experimental bases.The most exciting opportunityis actually to go inside the human bodyand perform therapeutic and diagnostic functions.And this is less futuristic than it may sound.These things have already been done in animals.
时间：15:44
zh-cn:已经有纳米工程的装置可以治愈1型糖尿病，而它只有血细胞的大小。科学家将很多的这些装置放入老鼠的血液中，它可以控制胰岛素的释放，而确实治愈了1型糖尿病。现在我们看到是一个血红细胞机器人，它引发的话题表明，我们的生命体仅仅是次优尽管有其显著的复杂程度。一旦我们了解了运作的原理，我们逆向生命工程的发展是加速的。我们可以将这些东西设计得强大数千倍。Rob Freitas发明的人造红细胞的分析显示，如果你将身体中百分之十的红细胞替换成人造红细胞，你将可以不废吹灰之力完成15分钟的奥林匹克冲刺。你可以坐在游泳池底部4小时－－所以，“亲爱的，我在游泳池” 将会有全新的意思。我们做这个奥林匹克的实验将会非常有趣。可以预测，我们将会禁止这样做。我们会发现我们的青少年在高中的体育馆中的表现，会经常超过奥林匹克运动员。Freitas 设计了一个白细胞机器人。有一个大概的2020年的方案，但是他们并没有那么遥不可及。有四个研讨会组织正在研究建造血细胞大小的设备，有很多用在动物身上的实验。实际上有一个已经进入了人体实验的阶段，所以，这是可行的科技。
en:There&#39;s one nano-engineered device that cures type 1 diabetes. It&#39;s blood cell-sized.They put tens of thousands of thesein the blood cell — they tried this in rats —it lets insulin out in a controlled fashion,and actually cures type 1 diabetes.What you&#39;re watching is a designof a robotic red blood cell,and it does bring up the issue that our biologyis actually very sub-optimal,even though it&#39;s remarkable in its intricacy.Once we understand its principles of operation,and the pace with which we are reverse-engineering biology is accelerating,we can actually design these things to bethousands of times more capable.An analysis of this respirocyte, designed by Rob Freitas,indicates if you replace 10 percent of your red blood cells with these robotic versions,you could do an Olympic sprint for 15 minutes without taking a breath.You could sit at the bottom of your pool for four hours —so, &quot;Honey, I&#39;m in the pool,&quot; will take on a whole new meaning.It will be interesting to see what we do in our Olympic trials.Presumably we&#39;ll ban them,but then we&#39;ll have the specter of teenagers in their high schools gymsroutinely out-performing the Olympic athletes.Freitas has a design for a robotic white blood cell.These are 2020-circa scenarios,but they&#39;re not as futuristic as it may sound.There are four major conferences on building blood cell-sized devices;there are many experiments in animals.There&#39;s actually one going into human trial,so this is feasible technology.
时间：17:09
zh-cn:如果我们回到我们计算的指数增长模型，1000美元的计算现在相当于昆虫或者老鼠的大脑。到2020年时从存储量上来说，将会有人类的存量。但是这只是方程式的硬件的那一边。我们从哪里得到我们的软件呢？嗯，我们将会看到我们大脑的内部，并且事实上并不惊讶，大脑的扫描空间和时间分辨率是每年翻一番。并且会有新一代的扫描工具出现，实现我们第一次看到单个的跨神经纤维并且实时地看到他们是如何处理并且发送信号于是，之后就没问题了，我们现在可以得到数据了，但是我们能明白这些数据吗？Doug Hofstadter怀疑也许我们的理解力不足以明白我们自己的智力，如果我们更加聪明一点，那么我们的大脑会便得更加复杂，我们永远都无法赶上。最终我们可以明白。
en:If we come back to our exponential growth of computing,1,000 dollars of computing is now somewhere between an insect and a mouse brain.It will intersect human intelligencein terms of capacity in the 2020s,but that&#39;ll be the hardware side of the equation.Where will we get the software?Well, it turns out we can see inside the human brain,and in fact not surprisingly,the spatial and temporal resolution of brain scanning is doubling every year.And with the new generation of scanning tools,for the first time we can actually seeindividual inter-neural fibersand see them processing and signaling in real time —but then the question is, OK, we can get this data now,but can we understand it?Doug Hofstadter wonders, well, maybe our intelligencejust isn&#39;t great enough to understand our intelligence,and if we were smarter, well, then our brains would be that much more complicated,and we&#39;d never catch up to it.It turns out that we can understand it.
时间：18:00
zh-cn:这个是一个框图，这个框图是一个人类听觉皮层的模型和仿真这个模型的拟真程度很好－－在音质测试的实验中，它得到了非常类似人类听觉的结果。在另一项小脑的仿真中－－小脑包含了人脑中一半的神经－－同样，这个仿真的模拟效果非常好。这是早期的阶段，但是你可以看出对于人脑数据的指数增长，和人脑扫描解析度的增长，到2020年，我们将会成功地实现人脑的反向工程研究。我们已经有了几百个区域中15个区域非常好的模型和仿真。
en:This is a block diagram ofa model and simulation of the human auditory cortexthat actually works quite well —in applying psychoacoustic tests, gets very similar results to human auditory perception.There&#39;s another simulation of the cerebellum —that&#39;s more than half the neurons in the brain —again, works very similarly to human skill formation.This is at an early stage, but you can showwith the exponential growth of the amount of information about the brainand the exponential improvementin the resolution of brain scanning,we will succeed in reverse-engineering the human brainby the 2020s.We&#39;ve already had very good models and simulation of about 15 regionsout of the several hundred.
时间：18:43
zh-cn:所有的这些都是指数增长－指数增长经济的进展。在过去的50年中，我们的生产率从一小时30美元提高到一小时150美元电子商务已经在以指数增长。现在已经是万亿美元。你也许会怀疑，那么，那会不会有繁荣期也有萧条期呢？这是一个严格的资本市场的现象。华尔街注意到了这个革命性的科技，的确，但是6个月之后，如果它并没有革命性的商业模型，他们认为，那不对，于是，我们有了萧条。
en:All of this is drivingexponentially growing economic progress.We&#39;ve had productivity go from 30 dollars to 150 dollars per hourof labor in the last 50 years.E-commerce has been growing exponentially. It&#39;s now a trillion dollars.You might wonder, well, wasn&#39;t there a boom and a bust?That was strictly a capital-markets phenomena.Wall Street noticed that this was a revolutionary technology, which it was,but then six months later, when it hadn&#39;t revolutionized all business models,they figured, well, that was wrong,and then we had this bust.
时间：19:13
zh-cn:好吧，这是科技这科技可以把我们所用的一切技术整合到一起。手机会有常规的功能。它将可以把一种语言翻译成另一种语言。
en:All right, this is a technologythat we put together using some of the technologies we&#39;re involved in.This will be a routine feature in a cell phone.It would be able to translate from one language to another.
时间：19:34
zh-cn:那么，让我来以两个情景来结束。到2010年，计算机将消失。他们将会变得非常小，会嵌入到衣服，和我们的环境中。图像将会直接写到我们的视网膜上，展现出全沉浸的虚拟现实，增强真实的显示。我们会直接和虚拟人物互动。
en:So let me just end with a couple of scenarios.By 2010 computers will disappear.They&#39;ll be so small, they&#39;ll be embedded in our clothing, in our environment.Images will be written directly to our retina,providing full-immersion virtual reality,augmented real reality. We&#39;ll be interacting with virtual personalities.
时间：19:51
zh-cn:但是如果到2029年，这些趋势将会发展成熟，你必须了解科技发展中很多的转折，这些转折会越来越快，我是说我们会有2到二十五倍这些科技的性价比，存量和带宽，这些变化是巨大的。它将会比现在的科技强大数百万倍。我们将完成人脑的反向工程计算，1000美元的计算以将会比人脑的基本裸存量还要强大很多。计算机将会集合非常微妙的人类智能的认知能力，和非常强大的机器，可以完成分析思考，准确地记住数十亿的事实。机器可以非常迅速地分享它们的知识，但是这不只是智能机器的入侵。我们将会融合我们的科技。
en:But if we go to 2029, we really have the full maturity of these trends,and you have to appreciate how many turns of the screwin terms of generations of technology, which are getting faster and faster, we&#39;ll have at that point.I mean, we will have two-to-the-25th-powergreater price performance, capacity and bandwidthof these technologies, which is pretty phenomenal.It&#39;ll be millions of times more powerful than it is today.We&#39;ll have completed the reverse-engineering of the human brain,1,000 dollars of computing will be far more powerfulthan the human brain in terms of basic raw capacity.Computers will combinethe subtle pan-recognition powersof human intelligence with ways in which machines are already superior,in terms of doing analytic thinking,remembering billions of facts accurately.Machines can share their knowledge very quickly.But it&#39;s not just an alien invasion of intelligent machines.We are going to merge with our technology.
时间：20:41
zh-cn:这些我刚提到过的纳米机器人将首次被用于药物和健康；清理我们的环境，提供燃料－－非常强大的燃料电池广泛分布的分布式太阳能板，和其他很多在环境中的应用。但是它们将会走进我们的大脑，和我们的生物神经交互。我们将会展示这些成功的原理。例如，在神经系统内部的全沉浸虚拟现实，纳米机器人会关掉你真实感受的信号，替代它们并传递给大脑如果你是在一个虚拟的环境，你将会感觉到你正在这个虚拟的环境中。你可以和其他人一起进入，和其他人一起去感受这些感觉。我把他们叫做&quot; Experience Beamers&quot;, 将会把在神经系统中的感觉流引起的情感放入互联网上。你可以进入然后体验别人的感觉。但是最重要的，它将会是人类智能的惊人扩散通过和我们科技的直接融合，从某些方面来说，我们已经在这样做。我们经常的智能表现是离开了我们的科技无法实现的。在1800年，人类的预期寿命是37岁，但是随着生物技术，纳米科技的革命，在未来几年，预期寿命会增长的非常迅速。
en:These nano-bots I mentionedwill first be used for medical and health applications:cleaning up the environment, providing powerful fuel cellsand widely distributed decentralized solar panels and so on in the environment.But they&#39;ll also go inside our brain,interact with our biological neurons.We&#39;ve demonstrated the key principles of being able to do this.So, for example,full-immersion virtual reality from within the nervous system,the nano-bots shut down the signals coming from your real senses,replace them with the signals that your brain would be receivingif you were in the virtual environment,and then it&#39;ll feel like you&#39;re in that virtual environment.You can go there with other people, have any kind of experiencewith anyone involving all of the senses.&quot;Experience beamers,&quot; I call them, will put their whole flow of sensory experiencesin the neurological correlates of their emotions out on the Internet.You can plug in and experience what it&#39;s like to be someone else.But most importantly,it&#39;ll be a tremendous expansionof human intelligence through this direct merger with our technology,which in some sense we&#39;re doing already.We routinely do intellectual featsthat would be impossible without our technology.Human life expectancy is expanding. It was 37 in 1800,and with this sort of biotechnology, nano-technology revolutions,this will move up very rapidlyin the years ahead.
时间：21:56
zh-cn:我主要传递的想法，是科技进步的速度是指数增长的，而非线性增长。很多人，甚至是科学家，都在线性模型的基础上假设，所以他们会说，这将会用几百年，我们才能实现自复制纳米技术组装或人工智能。如果你真地看到指数增长的力量，你将会看到这些事情会更快变成现实。信息技术正在加速指引着我们的生活，从我们的音乐到生产制造，到我们的生物体，到能源，到材料。
en:My main message is that progress in technologyis exponential, not linear.Many — even scientists — assume a linear model,so they&#39;ll say, &quot;Oh, it&#39;ll be hundreds of yearsbefore we have self-replicating nano-technology assemblyor artificial intelligence.&quot;If you really look at the power of exponential growth,you&#39;ll see that these things are pretty soon at hand.And information technology is increasingly encompassingall of our lives, from our music to our manufacturingto our biology to our energy to materials.
时间：22:31
zh-cn:到21世纪20年代，我们将有能力生产我们所需的任何东西，从信息，非常便宜的原材料，运用纳米技术。它们是非常强大的科技。它们将会成就我们的前景和隐患。所以，我们必须将他们运用在正确的地方。
en:We&#39;ll be able to manufacture almost anything we need in the 2020s,from information, in very inexpensive raw materials,using nano-technology.These are very powerful technologies.They both empower our promise and our peril.So we have to have the will to apply them to the right problems.
时间：22:48
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：22:49
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
