时间： 0:12
zh-cn:信息技术正以指数幅度发展。它并不是线性的。而对我们来说，直觉却是线性的。千年前，当我们的祖先经过热带草原时，他们常常会线性预测(根据直觉找寻)野兽的踪迹。这的确行得通。因为这些是我们与生俱来的本能。然而信息技术当下的发展速度只能用指数发展来形容。这两者的差异不仅仅局限于数值。它们是天差地别的。假如我直走30步，一、二、三、四、五，我会一直走到30。可是假如我以指数方式走三十步，二、四、八、16，我会到达十亿多。这之间差了十万八千里啊。偏偏指数增长正确描述了当今的信息技术发展。
en:Information technology grows in an exponential manner.It&#39;s not linear. And our intuition is linear.When we walked through the savanna a thousand years agowe made linear predictions where that animal would be,and that worked fine. It&#39;s hardwired in our brains.But the pace of exponential growthis really what describes information technologies.And it&#39;s not just computation.There is a big difference between linear and exponential growth.If I take 30 steps linearly — one, two, three, four, five —I get to 30.If I take 30 steps exponentially — two, four, eight, 16 —I get to a billion.It makes a huge difference.And that really describes information technology.
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:当我尚是一位麻省理工的学生时，我们班共用一台占据了整栋房子的电脑。不过现在的手机芯片比那台电脑便宜一百万倍体型也小了一百万倍，但功能却强大了千倍。这就相当于一美元有亿倍的增长能力从我尚是一名学生到现在，这就是我所经历的。这样的快速发展还会保持25年。信息技术通过一系列S-曲线的考验后将可以到达不同的模式。因此有人问：”当摩尔定律效尽时，这世界将会如何？“我相信这大概会在2020年发生。我们将会进入一新纪元。摩尔定律并不是第一个导致信息技术进行指数增长的范式。信息技术的指数增长发生于戈登·摩尔出生的十几年前。它不仅仅局限于信息技术。而且包含了我们所知的所有科技中。
en:When I was a student at MIT,we all shared one computer that took up a whole building.The computer in your cellphone today is a million times cheaper,a million times smaller,a thousand times more powerful.That&#39;s a billion-fold increase in capability per dollarthat we&#39;ve actually experienced since I was a student.And we&#39;re going to do it again in the next 25 years.Information technology progressesthrough a series of S-curveswhere each one is a different paradigm.So people say, &quot;What&#39;s going to happen when Moore&#39;s Law comes to an end?&quot;Which will happen around 2020.We&#39;ll then go to the next paradigm.And Moore&#39;s Law was not the first paradigmto bring exponential growth to computing.The exponential growth of computing starteddecades before Gordon Moore was even born.And it doesn&#39;t just apply to computation.It&#39;s really any technology where we can measurethe underlying information properties.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:我将49台不同年代的电脑整理进一幅对数图。对数的大小遮掩住真正增长的比率。因为这些代表着自1890年以来，科技的万亿倍增长。在50年代，工程师们都为尽可能地缩小真空管而努力。但最终碰了壁。他们无法继续缩小真空管并同时保持着真空的状态。这就是真空管缩小事件的结果。却不是信息技术的指数增长的停滞。于是我们进入到第四种模式，晶体管，然后来到集成电路。当上述过程结束后，我们将会迈进第六种模式，三维自组分子电路。
en:Here we have 49 famous computers. I put them in a logarithmic graph.The logarithmic scale hides the scale of the increase,because this represents trillions-fold increasesince the 1890 census.In 1950s they were shrinking vacuum tubes,making them smaller and smaller. They finally hit a wall;they couldn&#39;t shrink the vacuum tube any more and keep the vacuum.And that was the end of the shrinking of vacuum tubes,but it was not the end of the exponential growth of computing.We went to the fourth paradigm, transistors,and finally integrated circuits.When that comes to an end we&#39;ll go to the sixth paradigm;three-dimensional self-organizing molecular circuits.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:但更惊人的是，比这神奇的过程更惊人的是，预测科技发展的简单性。科技发展是经历了所有时期，如战争期与和平期、繁荣期与衰退期。大萧条根本没有影响科技发展的指数增长。我相信我们会在这次金融危机中见到同样的东西。至少信息技术的指数增长能力将不会减弱。
en:But what&#39;s even more amazing, really, than thisfantastic scale of progress,is that — look at how predictable this is.I mean this went through thick and thin,through war and peace, through boom times and recessions.The Great Depression made not a dent in this exponential progression.We&#39;ll see the same thing in the economic recession we&#39;re having now.At least the exponential growth of information technology capabilitywill continue unabated.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:这些图是我刚刚更新过的。于我所著的书《奇点将至》中，这些数据只更新到2002年。所以我将它们更新至2007年。很多问我：”你不紧张么？或许它们并不能证明指数增长的说法。”我的确有点紧张，因为这些数据有可能是错误的，但我在这行里干了30多年，而且这行的发展趋势的确遵照指数增长的规律。
en:And I just updated these graphs.Because I had them through 2002 in my book, &quot;The Singularity is Near.&quot;So we updated them,so I could present it here, to 2007.And I was asked, &quot;Well aren&#39;t you nervous?Maybe it kind of didn&#39;t stay on this exponential progression.&quot;I was a little nervousbecause maybe the data wouldn&#39;t be right,but I&#39;ve done this now for 30 years,and it has stayed on this exponential progression.
时间： 3:08
zh-cn:看，在1968年，一件晶体管需要一美元。现在，你则可以买五亿件。实际上，现在的晶体管质量更好。看看科技发展是多么好预测的。只是我会说这些资讯是过去式的了。我已经做过30年的前瞻性预测了。晶体管的费用相应地呈现了电子市场的价格水准，这每年都在下降。那说明了百分之50的下降率。这也适用于其他例子如DNA数据或大脑数据。不过社会发展的更快。事实上，我们的生产力比同等的科技要高两倍。这半个世纪里，每样科技的价值都增长了百分之18。尽管你每年可以收获两次回报，
en:Look at this graph here.You could buy one transistor for a dollar in 1968.You can buy half a billion today,and they are actually better, because they are faster.But look at how predictable this is.And I&#39;d say this knowledge is over-fitting to past data.I&#39;ve been making these forward-looking predictions for about 30 years.And the cost of a transistor cycle,which is a measure of the price performance of electronics,comes down about every year.That&#39;s a 50 percent deflation rate.And it&#39;s also true of other examples,like DNA data or brain data.But we more than make up for that.We actually ship more than twice as muchof every form of information technology.We&#39;ve had 18 percent growth in constant dollarsin every form of information technology for the last half-century,despite the fact that you can get twice as much of it each year.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:这是一全新的例子。这并不是摩尔定律。我们每年都可以获得增加了一倍以上的DNA数据。费用却每年减少一半。自从人类基因定序计划以来，这已成为一持续的发展定律。当计划进行至一半时，怀疑者们说：“这不会成功的。计划时间已过了一半，而你们只完成了百分之一的工作。”但按照时间表来说，这是可行的。假如你将百分之一用而乘七次，这就是实际上会发生的，那就是百分之百。计划也按时完成了。
en:This is a completely different example.This is not Moore&#39;s Law.The amount of DNA datawe&#39;ve sequenced has doubled every year.The cost has come down by half every year.And this has been a smooth progressionsince the beginning of the genome project.And halfway through the project, skeptics said,&quot;Well, this is not working out. You&#39;re halfway through the genome projectand you&#39;ve finished one percent of the project.&quot;But that was really right on schedule.Because if you double one percent seven more times,which is exactly what happened,you get 100 percent. And the project was finished on time.
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:通信技术有50种不同的方式来评量。如移动的位元数目和网络的大小。但科技正以指数步伐前进。这是强烈地民主化。20年前，我在《智能简史》中写到，随着苏联的扩张，它将会被增长的通信势力所瓦解。
en:Communication technologies:50 different ways to measure this,the number of bits being moved around, the size of the Internet.But this has progressed at an exponential pace.This is deeply democratizing.I wrote, over 20 years ago in &quot;The Age of Intelligent Machines,&quot;when the Soviet Union was going strong, that it would be swept awayby this growth of decentralized communication.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:当我们走过21世纪时，我们将会拥有新技术来协助我们进行模拟大脑区域等实验。但我们从哪里得到这些技术？一些评论家说：“哦，科技还没到那种地步呢。”岂知我们正逐步了解大脑。大脑扫描的空间分辨率，每年都有一倍地提高。相关的数据，也随之一倍增长。我们正在证明我们可以转化这些数据为大脑区域的模型和模拟实验。
en:And we will have plenty of computation as we go through the 21st centuryto do things like simulate regions of the human brain.But where will we get the software?Some critics say, &quot;Oh, well software is stuck in the mud.&quot;But we are learning more and more about the human brain.Spatial resolution of brain scanning is doubling every year.The amount of data we&#39;re getting about the brain is doubling every year.And we&#39;re showing that we can actually turn this datainto working models and simulations of brain regions.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:我们目前已模拟和测试了20个大脑区域：听觉和视觉皮层，小脑，我们身体的协调器，部分大脑皮层，我们进行理性思考的部分。这些发现都非常平稳和在预料之中帮助和增长了生产力。我们的小时工资已从30美元增长至130美元了，这就是因信息技术的进步。
en:There is about 20 regions of the brain that have been modeled,simulated and tested:the auditory cortex, regions of the visual cortex;cerebellum, where we do our skill formation;slices of the cerebral cortex, where we do our rational thinking.And all of this has fueledan increase, very smooth and predictable, of productivity.We&#39;ve gone from 30 dollars to 130 dollarsin constant dollars in the value of an average hour of human labor,fueled by this information technology.
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:这还只是对能源和环境的影响。这里又是一幅对数图。我们所利用的太阳能每两年都增长一倍。正是由于现时的纳米技术，这是一种信息技术。我们只要再经历八次双倍增长，我们就可以百分之百地利用太阳能。而这些能力将会是万倍多于我们所需的。
en:And we&#39;re all concerned about energy and the environment.Well this is a logarithmic graph.This represents a smooth doubling,every two years, of the amount of solar energy we&#39;re creating,particularly as we&#39;re now applying nanotechnology,a form of information technology, to solar panels.And we&#39;re only eight doublings awayfrom it meeting 100 percent of our energy needs.And there is 10 thousand times more sunlight than we need.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:我们会最终接受这项技术。它的脚步已近了。当我尚是一名学生时，电脑有整个校园那么大，而现在却可以装进口袋里。以前需求整栋大楼的资源却被现时的口袋替代了。哪知25年后，这些将可以装进我们的红血球里。当我们迈向这项技术时，它将会真正左右我们的健康和智慧。
en:We ultimately will merge with this technology. It&#39;s already very close to us.When I was a student it was across campus, now it&#39;s in our pockets.What used to take up a building now fits in our pockets.What now fits in our pockets would fit in a blood cell in 25 years.And we will begin to actually deeply influenceour health and our intelligence,as we get closer and closer to this technology.
时间： 6:25
zh-cn:根据TED的传统，我将在此公布，奇点大学。这是一所全新的大学，由我和台下的彼得·迪曼蒂斯先生共同创立。它还获得美国太空总署和谷歌的赞助，以及其他高科领域的领袖们的支持。我们的目标是召集领袖们，不管是学生还是老师，来共同研究正在指数增长的信息技术和它的应用。拉里·佩奇先生在我们的内部会议上发表了以慷慨激昂的演讲，他说我们应致力研究如何真正解决人类面临的一些重大挑战。假使我们这样做，谷歌定会资助我们。这就是我们所做的改变。
en:Based on that we are announcing, here at TED,in true TED tradition, Singularity University.It&#39;s a new universitythat&#39;s founded by Peter Diamandis, who is here in the audience,and myself.It&#39;s backed by NASA and Google,and other leaders in the high-tech and science community.And our goal was to assemble the leaders,both teachers and students,in these exponentially growing information technologies,and their application.But Larry Page made an impassioned speechat our organizing meeting,saying we should devote this studyto actually addressing some of the major challenges facing humanity.And if we did that, then Google would back this.And so that&#39;s what we&#39;ve done.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:在紧张的九周暑假学营的最后三周里，我们将会投身于研究一些现实社会里的重大问题。如将网络普及至中国和非洲的乡村地区，从而将健康资讯传播至世界的每个角落。这项计划将会延伸至学营外，通过协作来讨论。而这些讨论所催生的智慧财产将会在网络上公开并在网络上进一步深入。
en:The last third of the nine-week intensive summer sessionwill be devoted to a group project to addresssome major challenge of humanity.Like for example, applying the Internet,which is now ubiquitous, in the rural areas of China or in Africa,to bringing health informationto developing areas of the world.And these projects will continue past these sessions,using collaborative interactive communication.All the intellectual property that is created and taughtwill be online and available,and developed online in a collaborative fashion.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:这是创校会议的照片。我今天将在这宣布。奇点大学会永久设置于硅谷里的美国太空总署的埃米斯研究所。研究生和公司的主管们将会被提供不同的课程。主要的方面将会是，人工智能，先进的电脑技术，生物技术，纳米技术，这些都是信息技术里不同的核心领域。然后我们将会将他们应用至其它领域，如能源，生态环境，政策法律，道德和企业等，因此学员们可以将这些新技术带给全世界。
en:Here is our founding meeting.But this is being announced today.It will be permanently headquartered in Silicon Valley,at the NASA Ames research center.There are different programs for graduate students,for executives at different companies.The first six tracks here — artificial intelligence,advanced computing technologies, biotechnology, nanotechnology —are the different core areas of information technology.Then we are going to apply them to the other areas,like energy, ecology,policy law and ethics, entrepreneurship,so that people can bring these new technologies to the world.
时间： 8:18
zh-cn:我们非常感谢那些帮过我们的人，不管是学者领袖，还是高科领域的领袖，特别感谢谷歌和美国太空总署。这是一次崭新的刺激冒险。我们邀请你们来参加。非常感谢。(鼓掌)
en:So we&#39;re very appreciative of the support we&#39;ve gottenfrom both the intellectual leaders, the high-tech leaders,particularly Google and NASA.This is an exciting new venture.And we invite you to participate. Thank you very much.(Applause)
