时间： 0:11
zh-cn:每个人都对其他人感兴趣每个人都与其他人建立这样那样的关系并且，人们因为各种各样的原因对这些关系感兴趣好的关系，坏的关系令人讨厌的关系，未知的关系等等我今天演讲的重点是人际关系中“互动”的核心内容我会从“人们都对与他人互动感兴趣” 这个事实出发，摒弃这个事实的复杂的特点将其进行简化，然后把这个事实当作一个&quot;科学探亲器&quot;，并提供一些初期研究成果，试着从一个新的方面来阐释两个人在进行互动时他们大脑的活动。
en:Other people. Everyone is interested in other people.Everyone has relationships with other people,and they&#39;re interested in these relationshipsfor a variety of reasons.Good relationships, bad relationships,annoying relationships, agnostic relationships,and what I&#39;m going to do is focus on the central pieceof an interaction that goes on in a relationship.So I&#39;m going to take as inspiration the fact that we&#39;re allinterested in interacting with other people,I&#39;m going to completely strip it of all its complicating features,and I&#39;m going to turn that object, that simplified object,into a scientific probe, and provide the early stages,embryonic stages of new insights into what happensin two brains while they simultaneously interact.
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:不过在此之前，我还要先介绍几种技术是这些技术让此研究成为可能。第一，我们现在已经可以安全地侦测健康大脑的活动不需要进行注射或者放射检查也不需要有任何临床诊断的动因，我们就可以去记录在你朋友或邻居在进行各类认知活动时大脑的活动，我们使用的方法叫做功能性磁振造影你们可能已经听过或者读过不同版本的功能性磁振造影那么我就简单地介绍一下我们都听说过磁共振成像（简称MRIs）MRIs利用磁场和无线电波来给你的大脑，或膝盖，胃等“拍照”它会把拍摄瞬间的活动以灰阶图记录下来上世纪90年代，人们发现可以在不同模式下运用MRIs在这一模式下，我们可以分别纪录大脑内成千上百个小区域中任何一个的微观血液流动好，这意味着什么呢？事实上，在大脑中促使大脑运转的，使你大脑里的“软件”工作的，神经活动的变化与血流的变化息息相关如果你能够纪录血流的变化也就意味着能大致记录大脑的活动
en:But before I do that, let me tell you a couple of thingsthat made this possible.The first is we can now eavesdrop safelyon healthy brain activity.Without needles and radioactivity,without any kind of clinical reason, we can go down the streetand record from your friends&#39; and neighbors&#39; brainswhile they do a variety of cognitive tasks, and we usea method called functional magnetic resonance imaging.You&#39;ve probably all read about it or heard about in someincarnation. Let me give you a two-sentence version of it.So we&#39;ve all heard of MRIs. MRIs use magnetic fieldsand radio waves and they take snapshots of your brainor your knee or your stomach,grayscale images that are frozen in time.In the 1990s, it was discovered you could usethe same machines in a different mode,and in that mode, you could make microscopic blood flowmovies from hundreds of thousands of sites independently in the brain.Okay, so what? In fact, the so what is, in the brain,changes in neural activity, the things that make your brain work,the things that make your software work in your brain,are tightly correlated with changes in blood flow.You make a blood flow movie, you have an independentproxy of brain activity.
时间： 2:01
zh-cn:这个发现极大地改变了认知科学任何你想要了解的认知范围：记忆动作计划，想到你的丈母娘，对人生气，情绪反映等等把受试者放到磁共振成像仪下，我们就能对不同脑部的活动进行成像这一技术还处在初期阶段，某种程度上来说还相对粗糙但20年前，我们一无所有我们还不可能拿健康的人来这样研究这一技术引发了一场真正的革命它使我们获得了新的实验对象神经生物学家一直有很多实验对象像蠕虫，啮齿类动物，果蝇等等现在，我们可以研究人类了我们可以研究人类并建造人类思维模型，同时我们还有其他新的生物测量技术。
en:This has literally revolutionized cognitive science.Take any cognitive domain you want, memory,motor planning, thinking about your mother-in-law,getting angry at people, emotional response, it goes on and on,put people into functional MRI devices, andimage how these kinds of variables map onto brain activity.It&#39;s in its early stages, and it&#39;s crude by some measures,but in fact, 20 years ago, we were at nothing.You couldn&#39;t do people like this. You couldn&#39;t do healthy people.That&#39;s caused a literal revolution, and it&#39;s opened us upto a new experimental preparation. Neurobiologists,as you well know, have lots of experimental preps,worms and rodents and fruit flies and things like this.And now, we have a new experimental prep: human beings.We can now use human beings to study and modelthe software in human beings, and we have a fewburgeoning biological measures.
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:举个以人类作为研究对象的例子，有这么一个概念：评价简单来说就是你觉得某种东西怎么样如果要你对两家公司进行对比评价你肯定会想了解哪一家公司更有价值早在几千年前，人们就发觉了评价的关键特点如果你要比较橙子和挡风玻璃，你会怎么做？当然，你不能直接比较这两者它们没有交集，没有可比性所以，你得将它们转换成一个共同的中间标准然后在这个标准下再来进行评价比较你的大脑做的就是一些这样的工作现在，我们开始了解并且识别与“评价”有关的大脑系统其中之一就是某个神经递质系统，其细胞位于脑干并且向大脑的其他部位传递多巴胺我不会赘述细节，你只需要知道这是个重要的发现，而且我们现在已经知道很多了，但这也只是其中很小的一部分，但它相当重要因为如果得了帕金森症，这些神经元就没了它们也是几乎所有毒品所危害的对象毒品会改变你看待世界的方式改变你怎样理解那些与所服用的毒品相联系的符号，从而使你觉得毒品比任何其他东西都重要。
en:Okay, let me give you one example of the kinds of experiments that people do,and it&#39;s in the area of what you&#39;d call valuation.Valuation is just what you think it is, you know?If you went and you were valuing two companies againstone another, you&#39;d want to know which was more valuable.Cultures discovered the key feature of valuation thousands of years ago.If you want to compare oranges to windshields, what do you do?Well, you can&#39;t compare oranges to windshields.They&#39;re immiscible. They don&#39;t mix with one another.So instead, you convert them to a common currency scale,put them on that scale, and value them accordingly.Well, your brain has to do something just like that as well,and we&#39;re now beginning to understand and identifybrain systems involved in valuation,and one of them includes a neurotransmitter systemwhose cells are located in your brainstemand deliver the chemical dopamine to the rest of your brain.I won&#39;t go through the details of it, but that&#39;s an importantdiscovery, and we know a good bit about that now,and it&#39;s just a small piece of it, but it&#39;s important becausethose are the neurons that you would lose if you had Parkinson&#39;s disease,and they&#39;re also the neurons that are hijacked by literallyevery drug of abuse, and that makes sense.Drugs of abuse would come in, and they would changethe way you value the world. They change the wayyou value the symbols associated with your drug of choice,and they make you value that over everything else.
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:关键的是，这些神经元与你怎样赋予抽象概念特定价值有关这里有一些符号，我们会因为不同的原因给它们赋予一定的价值我们大脑中有着一个决定行为的上层力量，而其至少需要多巴胺。我们可以为了一个想法而否定所有的生存本能，仅仅一个想法。没有任何其他种生物可以做到这一点。1997年，邪教 “天堂之门” 的信徒集体自杀因为他们相信在海尔波普彗星的尾巴里藏着一艘宇宙飞船会带他们到一个全新的境界。这一惨剧轰动一时。超过2/3的自杀者有大学学位。这件事情告诉我们的重点是，他们可以用让自己生存了这么多年的系统来否定自己的生存本能。这是很大的控制力，对不对？
en:Here&#39;s the key feature though. These neurons are alsoinvolved in the way you can assign value to literally abstract ideas,and I put some symbols up here that we assign value tofor various reasons.We have a behavioral superpower in our brain,and it at least in part involves dopamine.We can deny every instinct we have for survival for an idea,for a mere idea. No other species can do that.In 1997, the cult Heaven&#39;s Gate committed mass suicidepredicated on the idea that there was a spaceshiphiding in the tail of the then-visible comet Hale-Boppwaiting to take them to the next level. It was an incredibly tragic event.More than two thirds of them had college degrees.But the point here is they were able to deny their instincts for survivalusing exactly the same systems that were put thereto make them survive. That&#39;s a lot of control, okay?
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:我在这个例子里遗漏了一点而这正是接下来我演讲的重点，那就是“ 其他人”。当我们评价与他人的互动时，同样的评价系统会进行重组。于是，这个可以让人吸毒成瘾的多巴胺系统，这个可以让人在得了帕金森症后无法动弹的，同时也可以引起多种形式精神疾病的系统，在我们与其他人产生互动时重组，并且对你与他人互动时的手势赋予特定的意义。
en:One thing that I&#39;ve left out of this narrativeis the obvious thing, which is the focus of the rest of mylittle talk, and that is other people.These same valuation systems are redeployedwhen we&#39;re valuing interactions with other people.So this same dopamine system that gets addicted to drugs,that makes you freeze when you get Parkinson&#39;s disease,that contributes to various forms of psychosis,is also redeployed to value interactions with other peopleand to assign value to gestures that you dowhen you&#39;re interacting with somebody else.
时间： 5:25
zh-cn:让我举个例子。你在与人互动时，可挥出自己所没有意识到的的巨大的分析处理能力。
en:Let me give you an example of this.You bring to the table such enormous processing powerin this domain that you hardly even notice it.
时间： 5:33
zh-cn:这里有一些图片：第一张是个婴儿她才三个月大，仍然整天包着尿布，当然也不会计算。她是我的一个亲戚。（她爸妈）一定会很高兴看到她的照片出现在这里。当你蒙住她的一只眼睛，你仍然可以从另一只眼睛里看出些什么，我在一只眼睛里看到了好奇，另一只里则好像是一些惊奇
en:Let me just give you a few examples. So here&#39;s a baby.She&#39;s three months old. She still poops in her diapers and she can&#39;t do calculus.She&#39;s related to me. Somebody will be very glad that she&#39;s up here on the screen.You can cover up one of her eyes, and you can still readsomething in the other eye, and I see sort of curiosityin one eye, I see maybe a little bit of surprise in the other.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:这是一对情侣，他们正在分享美好的时刻我们做了个实验，从这张照片里截取不同的部分，但你仍然可以看出他们在分享这一刻，这种分享似乎是对应的照片中的其他元素同样可以传递这样的信息，但从他们脸上我们可以更直接地读出来，如果你把这两张脸和一般的脸做对比，你会发现，那些（能告诉他们在互动的）信息并不很明显
en:Here&#39;s a couple. They&#39;re sharing a moment together,and we&#39;ve even done an experiment where you can cut outdifferent pieces of this frame and you can still seethat they&#39;re sharing it. They&#39;re sharing it sort of in parallel.Now, the elements of the scene also communicate thisto us, but you can read it straight off their faces,and if you compare their faces to normal faces, it would be a very subtle cue.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:这是另一对情侣，男的表情是看着我们的，女人则非常明显地表现出了对这个他的爱慕。
en:Here&#39;s another couple. He&#39;s projecting out at us,and she&#39;s clearly projecting, you know,love and admiration at him.
时间： 6:17
zh-cn:这里还有一对（笑声）。我从左边这位的脸上可没看出什么爱慕之情（笑声）。事实上，我知道这是他的姐姐，你似乎可以听见他说：“好吧，面对镜头就装装样子一会你就会偷我的糖，还打我的脸。” （笑声）我把这张照片放上来，他一定很想杀了我。
en:Here&#39;s another couple. (Laughter)And I&#39;m thinking I&#39;m not seeing love and admiration on the left. (Laughter)In fact, I know this is his sister, and you can just seehim saying, &quot;Okay, we&#39;re doing this for the camera,and then afterwards you steal my candy and you punch me in the face.&quot; (Laughter)He&#39;ll kill me for showing that.
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:好，这又说明了什么呢？这意味着我们拥有巨大的处理分析问题的能力，它藏在我们大脑的深处，正是同样的这个多巴胺能系统让我们追求异性，食物和盐。使我们生存下去。它给我们像食物一样的行为动力，我们称之为“上层决定力”的行为动力。
en:All right, so what does this mean?It means we bring an enormous amount of processing power to the problem.It engages deep systems in our brain, in dopaminergicsystems that are there to make you chase sex, food and salt.They keep you alive. It gives them the pie, it givesthat kind of a behavioral punch which we&#39;ve called a superpower.
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:那么我们应该如何用这些已知的，来安排特定的社交互动，然后把这个互动变成“科学探测器”？答案是博弈。经济学中的博弈分为两种一个是实验经济学，另一个是行为经济学我们要借用它的博弈，来为我们的研究服务这张图片显示的是博弈的一种，叫做”最后通牒“。小红人可以得到100美元，并且可以分一些给小蓝人假设小红人想留下70美元，给小蓝人30, 也就是七三分。现在决定权给了小蓝人，他可以说“我接受”，他就能得到30美元，但如果他说“我不接受”，两个人都得不到钱。经济学家认为，理性选择的话你应该接受任何不为零的所得但人们通常会怎么做呢？对于八二分成，人们的选择没有明显的倾向，接受率就和抛硬币一样，大概是一半一半这是为什么呢？因为你生气了，你觉得这个交易是不公平的，而且你知道什么是不公平的开价我们在实验室里用这样的博弈世界上还有许多其他学者也用它这个例子告诉你，用这类博弈可以探测到的东西。有趣的是，这样的博弈实验需要动用大量的认知机能你必须在博弈前就估计对方是什么样的人。你必须记得住自己做了什么。你必须在正确的时刻做。你得根据得到的反馈来更新你对对方的认识有趣的是你还得进行非常深入地思考，你要决定对方对你的期望是什么。你需要发出信号，以建立你在他们眼里的形象。就好像工作面试，你和招聘官隔桌而坐，他们对你有一个先决的印象，你则发出信号，将你在他们眼中的形象转变成你想要的样子。我们其实很擅长这个，以至于自己都没有意识到。这类”探测器“（博弈）正是在探究这方面的问题。
en:So how can we take that and arrange a kind of stagedsocial interaction and turn that into a scientific probe?And the short answer is games.Economic games. So what we do is we go into two areas.One area is called experimental economics. The other area is called behavioral economics.And we steal their games. And we contrive them to our own purposes.So this shows you one particular game called an ultimatum game.Red person is given a hundred dollars and can offera split to blue. Let&#39;s say red wants to keep 70,and offers blue 30. So he offers a 70-30 split with blue.Control passes to blue, and blue says, &quot;I accept it,&quot;in which case he&#39;d get the money, or blue says,&quot;I reject it,&quot; in which case no one gets anything. Okay?So a rational choice economist would say, well,you should take all non-zero offers.What do people do? People are indifferent at an 80-20 split.At 80-20, it&#39;s a coin flip whether you accept that or not.Why is that? You know, because you&#39;re pissed off.You&#39;re mad. That&#39;s an unfair offer, and you know what an unfair offer is.This is the kind of game done by my lab and many around the world.That just gives you an example of the kind of thing thatthese games probe. The interesting thing is, these gamesrequire that you have a lot of cognitive apparatus on line.You have to be able to come to the table with a proper model of another person.You have to be able to remember what you&#39;ve done.You have to stand up in the moment to do that.Then you have to update your model based on the signals coming back,and you have to do something that is interesting,which is you have to do a kind of depth of thought assay.That is, you have to decide what that other person expects of you.You have to send signals to manage your image in their mind.Like a job interview. You sit across the desk from somebody,they have some prior image of you,you send signals across the desk to move their imageof you from one place to a place where you want it to be.We&#39;re so good at this we don&#39;t really even notice it.These kinds of probes exploit it. Okay?
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:我们发现，在社交活动中人类就好像金丝雀。过去，人们在煤矿里将金丝雀作为生物感应器当甲烷或二氧化碳含量过高，或者氧气减少时，金丝雀会比人类先昏过去—就好像一种预警系统：“伙计，快点出矿去，有什么不太对劲。”人们进行互动时，即使是非常简单直接的,特定安排的社交活动，交流的只是数字，人们也可以给予这样的交流无数敏感的内涵所以我们意识到，我们可以从这个方面着手研究事实上，现在我们已经对五六千人做了这样的研究。实际上，要成为生物“探测器”，我们还需要更多的人数。不过，无论如何我们已经发现了规律并且将其转化为数学模型，然后再利用这些模型来获得对（人们间）信息交流新的发现好的，这又意味着什么？这意味着这是一个非常好的行为度量衡，经济学中的博弈给我们提供了“最优策略”的概念。我们可以计算在博弈中的最优策略。并以此来划分行为。
en:In doing this, what we&#39;ve discovered is that humansare literal canaries in social exchanges.Canaries used to be used as kind of biosensors in mines.When methane built up, or carbon dioxide built up,or oxygen was diminished, the birds would swoonbefore people would — so it acted as an early warning system:Hey, get out of the mine. Things aren&#39;t going so well.People come to the table, and even these very blunt,staged social interactions, and they, and there&#39;s justnumbers going back and forth between the people,and they bring enormous sensitivities to it.So we realized we could exploit this, and in fact,as we&#39;ve done that, and we&#39;ve done this now inmany thousands of people, I think on the order offive or six thousand. We actually, to make thisa biological probe, need bigger numbers than that,remarkably so. But anyway,patterns have emerged, and we&#39;ve been able to takethose patterns, convert them into mathematical models,and use those mathematical models to gain new insightsinto these exchanges. Okay, so what?Well, the so what is, that&#39;s a really nice behavioral measure,the economic games bring to us notions of optimal play.We can compute that during the game.And we can use that to sort of carve up the behavior.
时间：10:03
zh-cn:六七年前，我们在德克萨斯州的休斯顿建立了一个团队，现在他们在弗吉尼亚州和伦敦。我们制作了一个软件，将功能性磁振造影仪连接上因特网，大概一次可以连接六台仪器，不过我们现在先来看其中的两台。这个软件可以让世界上任何(MRI)仪器同步。我们先同步两台仪器，并让受测者进行上述特设的社交活动，然后我们就可以监测双方的脑部活动。所以，有史以来第一次，我们不需要看平均数据，或者让个体操作电脑，或者是试着用电脑干扰。我们可以研究每两个互动的个体。可以研究人与人之间互动的方式，如果继续扩大样本数，我们会开始在一般认知层面也获得新的发现，更重要的是，我们可以让传统上被定义为患有精神疾病或脑损伤的病人，进行这样的社交互动，并利用他们的数据来“探测” 精神疾病。我们也已经开始了这样的研究。并有了一些初期成果。我们认为这里面的前景非常乐观。但我们需要用新的数学词汇来进行重新定义，改变传统上对精神疾病的看法，并发现这些疾病的特质，用人来做这些疾病“探测器”，就像“报警的金丝雀”一样。我们让健康的同伴来与重度抑郁症患者，自闭症患者，或者多动症患者，进行互动将他们的互动作为“生物感应器”，然后利用电脑程序给受试者建立模型......像这样的试验。
en:Here&#39;s the cool thing. Six or seven years ago,we developed a team. It was at the time in Houston, Texas.It&#39;s now in Virginia and London. And we built softwarethat&#39;ll link functional magnetic resonance imaging devicesup over the Internet. I guess we&#39;ve done up to six machinesat a time, but let&#39;s just focus on two.So it synchronizes machines anywhere in the world.We synchronize the machines, set them into thesestaged social interactions, and we eavesdrop on bothof the interacting brains. So for the first time,we don&#39;t have to look at just averages over single individuals,or have individuals playing computers, or try to makeinferences that way. We can study individual dyads.We can study the way that one person interacts with another person,turn the numbers up, and start to gain new insightsinto the boundaries of normal cognition,but more importantly, we can put people withclassically defined mental illnesses, or brain damage,into these social interactions, and use these as probes of that.So we&#39;ve started this effort. We&#39;ve made a few hits,a few, I think, embryonic discoveries.We think there&#39;s a future to this. But it&#39;s our wayof going in and redefining, with a new lexicon,a mathematical one actually, as opposed to the standardways that we think about mental illness,characterizing these diseases, by using the peopleas birds in the exchanges. That is, we exploit the factthat the healthy partner, playing somebody with major depression,or playing somebody with autism spectrum disorder,or playing somebody with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder,we use that as a kind of biosensor, and then we usecomputer programs to model that person, and it gives usa kind of assay of this.
时间：11:40
zh-cn:早些时候我们还在起步阶段，我们在世界各地都建立了实验点。这是其中几个与我们合作的点，够讽刺的是，中转站，位于弗吉尼亚州的罗阿诺克市。现在还有一个中转站在伦敦，余下的也正在建设当中。我们希望在今后的某个阶段，可以发表我们的研究数据。不过要让所有人都能使用这些数据，是个很复杂的问题。人类本身是如此的有趣，而我们的研究只针对于其中很小的一部分，所以我非常欢迎其他对此感兴趣的朋友向我们索要软件，或是如何利用这些软件进行研究的指导。
en:Early days, and we&#39;re just beginning, we&#39;re setting up sitesaround the world. Here are a few of our collaborating sites.The hub, ironically enough,is centered in little Roanoke, Virginia.There&#39;s another hub in London, now, and the restare getting set up. We hope to give the data awayat some stage. That&#39;s a complicated issueabout making it available to the rest of the world.But we&#39;re also studying just a small partof what makes us interesting as human beings, and soI would invite other people who are interested in thisto ask us for the software, or even for guidanceon how to move forward with that.
时间：12:15
zh-cn:现在，让我提出一个想法作为结束，从某种程度上来说，研究认知科学的趣味在于人本身的局限性。我们现在还没有可以即时呈现脑部运动的工具事实上，即使我们独处的时候，我们仍然是不折不扣的社会性动物。我们并不是独立于其他人而存在于这个世界上的。事实上，我们的思想是依靠其他人而存在的，并通过其他的人表现出来，所以，对于“我是谁”这个问题，你在没有与其他人互动之前，通常是没有答案的这些人可以是与你亲近的人，你的敌人或其他看似不相关的人。以上就是我们对“什么让我们成为人类”这一问题的初步研究，我们将其转化为工具希望能在精神疾病方面取得新突破谢谢大家（鼓掌）（鼓掌）
en:Let me leave you with one thought in closing.The interesting thing about studying cognitionhas been that we&#39;ve been limited, in a way.We just haven&#39;t had the tools to look at interacting brainssimultaneously.The fact is, though, that even when we&#39;re alone,we&#39;re a profoundly social creature. We&#39;re not a solitary mindbuilt out of properties that kept it alive in the worldindependent of other people. In fact, our mindsdepend on other people. They depend on other people,and they&#39;re expressed in other people,so the notion of who you are, you often don&#39;t knowwho you are until you see yourself in interaction with peoplethat are close to you, people that are enemies of you,people that are agnostic to you.So this is the first sort of step into using that insightinto what makes us human beings, turning it into a tool,and trying to gain new insights into mental illness.Thanks for having me. (Applause)(Applause)
