时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我以一段广告作为开始其灵感来自乔治·奥威尔。苹果公司于1984年推出的广告。
en:So I begin with an advertisementinspired by George Orwellthat Apple ran in 1984.
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:（视频）老大哥：我们是一个人有着同一个意识，同一个决心，同一个理想。我们的敌人将自取灭亡，我们将用他们的混乱把他们埋葬。我们必胜。旁白：在一月二十四日，苹果电脑将推出麦金塔电脑（Macintosh）。你们将看到为什么1984不再是像乔治所描述的“1984”。
en:(Video) Big Brother: We are one peoplewith one will, one resolve,one cause.Our enemies shall talk themselves to death,and we will fight them with their own confusion.We shall prevail.Narrator: On January 24th,Apple Computer will introduce Macintosh.And you&#39;ll see why 1984won&#39;t be like &quot;1984.&quot;
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:丽贝卡·麦金农：这一视频中的潜在讯息在今天仍然非常有力。由创新的公司创造出的科技将解放我们所有人。时间快进到二十年多年之后。现苹果公司在中国推出了iPhone在中国政府的要求下在中国的应用程序商店中屏蔽了达赖喇嘛应用以及一些其他政治敏感的应用。美国政治漫画家马克·菲奥雷的讽刺应用程序也在美国受到审查，因为苹果公司中有人认为该程序可能会冒犯某些群体。他的应用直到他获得了普利策奖之后才得以恢复。德国明星周刊，一个新闻杂志，的应用也被屏蔽了因为苹果的审查员认为它对于用户来说有点太不雅观了，尽管事实上这一杂志可以在整个德国的报摊上完全合法地销售。最近更具争议的是，苹果审查了巴基斯坦的抗议应用因为以色列政府声称这一应用可能被用于组织暴力袭击。
en:Rebecca MacKinnon: So the underlying message of this videoremains very powerful even today.Technology created by innovative companieswill set us all free.Fast-forward more than two decades:Apple launches the iPhone in Chinaand censors the Dalai Lama outalong with several other politically sensitive applicationsat the request of the Chinese governmentfor its Chinese app store.The American political cartoonistMark Fiorealso had his satire applicationcensored in the United Statesbecause some of Apple&#39;s staffwere concerned it would be offensive to some groups.His app wasn&#39;t reinstateduntil he won the Pulitzer Prize.The German magazine Stern, a news magazine,had its app censoredbecause the Apple nannies deemed itto be a little bit too racy for their users,and despite the fact that this magazineis perfectly legal for saleon newsstands throughout Germany.And more controversially, recently,Apple censored a Palestinian protest appafter the Israeli government voiced concernsthat it might be used to organize violent attacks.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:事情是这样的，情况是私营公司在应用审查标准这些标准通常是非常武断的一般比应用于民主国家的言论自由宪章标准要狭隘。或者他们响应权威体制的审查要求而没有考虑到其人民的意愿。或他们响应来自没有司法权的政府的要求和关切而忽略了许多，或多数，在与我们所谈到的那些内容相关的使用者和浏览者。
en:So here&#39;s the thing.We have a situation where private companiesare applying censorship standardsthat are often quite arbitraryand generally more narrowthan the free speech constitutional standardsthat we have in democracies.Or they&#39;re responding to censorship requestsby authoritarian regimesthat do not reflect consent of the governed.Or they&#39;re responding to requests and concernsby governments that have no jurisdictionover many, or most, of the users and viewerswho are interacting with the content in question.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:情况就是这样。在前互联网世界，主权胜过我们物质自由，或者说缺乏物质自由，几乎完全由国家掌控。但现在在虚拟网络世界中我们有了私人主权的新篇章。他们关于软件编码、工程、设计、服务条款的决定都成为某种法律在我们的数字生活中约束我们哪些能做哪些不能做。他们交叉的全球化互联的主权能以某些方式挑战国家主权，以非常令人激动的方式，但有时也采取行动设计并扩展这种主权，当每次控制人们用这些信息能做什么不能做什么时，比我们物质世界中权力的执行有更多的影响。毕竟，即使是自由世界的领导者如果想要在下一年连任，也需要些来自Facebook王国强人的支持。
en:So here&#39;s the situation.In a pre-Internet world,sovereignty over our physical freedoms,or lack thereof,was controlled almost entirelyby nation-states.But now we have this new layerof private sovereigntyin cyberspace.And their decisions about software coding,engineering, design, terms of serviceall act as a kind of lawthat shapes what we can and cannot do with our digital lives.And their sovereignties,cross-cutting, globally interlinked,can in some wayschallenge the sovereignties of nation-statesin very exciting ways,but sometimes also actto project and extend itat a time when controlover what people can and cannot dowith informationhas more effect than everon the exercise of powerin our physical world.After all, even the leader of the free worldneeds a little help from the sultan of Facebookistanif he wants to get reelected next year.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:这些平台在今年春天和这之后的时间里对突尼斯和埃及的活动家们当然非常有帮助。如瓦埃勒·古奈德，白天是Google谷歌埃及行政主管，晚上是秘密的Facebook脸谱政治活动家，在穆巴拉克下台后他对CNN说了句名言，“如果想要解放一个社会，就给他们互联网。”但推翻一个政府是一回事建立一个稳定的民主国家则要更加复杂。左边的照片是一名埃及活动家拍摄的，他参与了三月埃及国家安全局的暴动。许多探员尽可能多地用碎纸机切碎文档然后把它们成堆地留在那里。但有些文件被原封不动的留下来了，一些活动家找到了监控他们的记录他们邮件往来的副本，他们手机短信的内容，甚至是Skype通话。一名活动家还发现了一份来自西方公司销售监控技术给埃及安全部队的合同。埃及活动家们认为这些用于监控的技术仍然在被过渡当局在网络上使用着。
en:And these platformswere certainly very helpfulto activists in Tunisia and Egyptthis past spring and beyond.As Wael Ghonim,the Google-Egyptian-executive by day,secret-Facebook-activist by night,famously said to CNNafter Mubarak stepped down,&quot;If you want to liberate a society,just give them the Internet.&quot;But overthrowing a government is one thingand building a stable democracyis a bit more complicated.On the left there&#39;s a photo taken by an Egyptian activistwho was part of the stormingof the Egyptian state security offices in March.And many of the agentsshredded as many of the documents as they couldand left them behind in piles.But some of the files were left behind intact,and activists, some of them,found their own surveillance dossiersfull of transcripts of their email exchanges,their cellphone text message exchanges,even Skype conversations.And one activist actually founda contract from a Western companyfor the sale of surveillance technologyto the Egyptian security forces.And Egyptian activists are assumingthat these technologies for surveillanceare still being usedby the transitional authorities running the networks there.
时间： 5:11
zh-cn:在突尼斯，今年五月份审查制度又开始恢复 —不像本·阿里总统时期那么广泛。但在你试图访问特定Facebook页面和一些其它过渡当局认为煽动暴力的网站时，它们都会被屏蔽。对此为了表示抗议，博客作者Slim Amamou，他曾在本·阿里时期被监禁而后成为了革命之后过渡政府的成员，为了表示抗议他从内阁辞职。但在突尼斯关于如何处理这类问题还有众多争议。
en:And in Tunisia, censorship actually began to return in May —not nearly as extensivelyas under President Ben Ali.But you&#39;ll see here a blocked pageof what happens when you try to reachcertain Facebook pages and some other websitesthat the transitional authoritieshave determined might incite violence.In protest over this,blogger Slim Amamou,who had been jailed under Ben Aliand then became part of the transitional governmentafter the revolution,he resigned in protest from the cabinet.But there&#39;s been a lot of debate in Tunisiaabout how to handle this kind of problem.
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:实际上，在Twitter推特上，有许多支持革命的人说道，“嗯，实际上，我们确实希望民主和言论自由，但有些言论需要限制，因为它太过暴力且可能动摇我们的民主。”但问题是，如何决定谁有权力做出这些决定如何确保他们不会滥用他们的权力？Riadh Guerfali是名突尼斯的经验丰富的数码活动家，对这一事件评论道，“以前事情很简单：好人在一边，坏人在另一边。今天，事情则难以捉摸的多。”欢迎来到民主世界，突尼斯和埃及的朋友们。
en:In fact, on Twitter,there were a number of people who were supportive of the revolutionwho said, &quot;Well actually,we do want democracy and free expression,but there is some kinds of speech that need to be off-boundsbecause it&#39;s too violent and it might be destabilizing for our democracy.But the problem is,how do you decide who is in power to make these decisionsand how do you make surethat they do not abuse their power?As Riadh Guerfali,the veteran digital activist from Tunisia,remarked over this incident,&quot;Before, things were simple:you had the good guys on one side and the bad guys on the other.Today, things are a lot more subtle.&quot;Welcome to democracy, our Tunisian and Egyptian friends.
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:事实是，即使在今天的民主社会中，对于在数字网络中如何平衡一方面的安全和法律执行和另一方面的保护公民自由和言论自由，我们仍然没有好的办法。实际上，在美国，不论你怎么看待朱利安·阿桑奇Julian Assange（维基解密创办人），即使不是他的拥护者也十分关注美国政府和一些公司处理维基解密的方式。在收到来自美国参议员乔·利伯曼的投诉后，亚马逊网站托管停止为维基解密服务，尽管事实上维基解密没有被起诉，甚至更没有被判任何罪名。
en:The reality isthat even in democratic societies today,we do not have good answersfor how you balance the needfor security and law enforcement on one handand protection of civil libertiesand free speech on the otherin our digital networks.In fact, in the United States,whatever you may think of Julian Assange,even people who are not necessarily big fans of hisare very concerned about the wayin which the United States government and some companies have handled Wikileaks.Amazon webhosting dropped Wikileaks as a customerafter receiving a complaint from U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman,despite the factthat Wikileaks had not been charged,let alone convicted,of any crime.
时间： 7:14
zh-cn:因此我们认为互联网是打破疆界的技术。这是张世界社交网络的地图，当然Facebook脸谱已经占领了世界版图中的多数 —这是好事也是坏事，取决于你觉得Facebook管理它的服务的方式怎么样。但在虚拟网络世界的某些地方仍存在着疆界。在巴西和日本，是由于独特的文化和语言的原因。但如果看看中国、越南和一些前苏联国家，那儿正在发生的事更让人不安。有这样一种情况政府和本地社交网络公司之间的关系正在形成这样一种局面，由于公司和政府间的这种关系，有效地使这些平台的授权潜力受到限制.
en:So we assumethat the Internet is a border-busting technology.This is a map of social networks worldwide,and certainly Facebook has conquered much of the world —which is either a good or a bad thing,depending on how you likethe way Facebook manages its service.But borders do persistin some parts of cyberspace.In Brazil and Japan,it&#39;s for unique cultural and linguistic reasons.But if you look at China, Vietnamand a number of the former Soviet states,what&#39;s happening there is more troubling.You have a situationwhere the relationship between governmentand local social networking companiesis creating a situationwhere, effectively,the empowering potential of these platformsis being constrainedbecause of these relationshipsbetween companies and government.
时间： 8:07
zh-cn:现在在中国，有众所周知的“伟大的防火墙”，这墙屏蔽了FacebookTwitter和现在的Google+还有许多其他的海外网站。其中有些是依靠西方技术的帮助完成的。但这只是故事的一部分。故事的另一半是中国政府强加于所有使用中国互联网的公司的要求，一个被称为自我审查的系统。说白了，这意味着审查和监视他们的用户。这是个我在2009年参加的典礼，其中中国互联网协会因为自我审查上的良好表现奖励了前20名中国公司 —例如，举报他们网站用户的内容。李彦宏，百度的首席执行官—中国占主导地位的搜索引擎，是领奖者之一。
en:Now in China,you have the &quot;great firewall,&quot; as it&#39;s well-known,that blocks Facebookand Twitter and now Google+and many of the other overseas websites.And that&#39;s done in part with the help from Western technology.But that&#39;s only half of the story.The other part of the storyare requirements that the Chinese government placeson all companies operating on the Chinese Internet,known as a system of self-discipline.In plain English, that means censorship and surveillanceof their users.And this is a ceremony I actually attended in 2009where the Internet Society of China presented awardsto the top 20 Chinese companiesthat are best at exercising self-discipline —i.e. policing their content.And Robin Li, CEO of Baidu,China&#39;s dominant search engine,was one of the recipients.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:在俄罗斯，一般不屏蔽互联网而是直接审查网站。这是个名为Rospil的网站它是个反腐败的网站。在今年早些时候，发生了件麻烦事那些通过一个名为Yandex Money的支付处理软件系统为Rospil捐款的人们突然收到了自称是民族主义党党员的人的威胁电话，他们通过用某种方式获取了Yandex Money用户信息的安全服务成员掌握了Rospil捐助人的详细信息。这是寒蝉效应，影响着人们用互联网监督政府的能力。因此今天世界上有这样一个情形，越来越多的国家中公民与政府的关系间接地通过互联网建立，这主要是由私人拥有和运营的服务。
en:In Russia, they do not generally block the Internetand directly censor websites.But this is a website called Rospilthat&#39;s an anti-corruption site.And earlier this year,there was a troubling incidentwhere people who had made donations to Rospilthrough a payments processing systemcalled Yandex Moneysuddenly received threatening phone callsfrom members of a nationalist partywho had obtained detailsabout donors to Rospilthrough members of the security serviceswho had somehow obtained this informationfrom people at Yandex Money.This has a chilling effecton people&#39;s ability to use the Internetto hold government accountable.So we have a situation in the world todaywhere in more and more countriesthe relationship between citizens and governmentsis mediated through the Internet,which is comprised primarilyof privately owned and operated services.
时间：10:04
zh-cn:因此我认为重要的问题不是争论是否互联网应帮助好人而不是坏人。当然，这将使那些最善用技术和对互联网理解最好的人胜过任何对手。今天我们需要问的最迫切的问题是我们如何确保互联网是按以民为本的方式发展。因为我想各位都会同意政府唯一合法的目的就是服务于民众。我要说技术唯一合法的目的是改善我们的生活，而不是操纵或奴役我们。
en:So the important question, I think,is not this debate over whether the Internetis going to help the good guys more than the bad guys.Of course, it&#39;s going to empowerwhoever is most skilled at using the technologyand best understands the Internetin comparison with whoever their adversary is.The most urgent question we need to be asking todayis how do we make surethat the Internet evolvesin a citizen-centric manner.Because I think all of you will agreethat the only legitimate purpose of governmentis to serve citizens,and I would arguethat the only legitimate purpose of technologyis to improve our lives,not to manipulate or enslave us.
时间：10:49
zh-cn:因此问题是，我们知道如何问责政府。我们不一定总能做的很好，但我们对这模式是什么样有感觉，在政治上和制度上怎么做。如何保障虚拟网络空间的主权对公共利益负责，当多数CEO认为他们的主要目标是股东利润最大化时？
en:So the question is,we know how to hold government accountable.We don&#39;t necessarily always do it very well,but we have a sense of what the models are,politically and institutionally, to do that.How do you hold the sovereigns of cyberspaceaccountable to the public interestwhen most CEO&#39;s arguethat their main obligationis to maximize shareholder profit?
时间：11:10
zh-cn:通常政府监管并不能帮上太大忙。有种情况，例如，在法国萨科齐总统对互联网公司的CEO们说，“我们是公共利益的唯一合法代表。”但接着他又去拥护那些声名狼藉的三振出局法，该法案会阻止文件分享从而断开公民的网络连接，这一法律已经在言论自由方面被联合国特别调查员所责难，它不合理地妨碍了公民交流的权利并且民间社会团体也提出质询，是否一些政治代表对保护娱乐行业利益的兴趣比保护公民的权利的兴趣更高。在英国，也在关注一个名为数字经济法案的法律其中给予私营中介机构以更多的责任去监视公民行为。
en:And government regulationoften isn&#39;t helping all that much.You have situations, for instance, in Francewhere president Sarkozytells the CEO&#39;s of Internet companies,&quot;We&#39;re the only legitimate representativesof the public interest.&quot;But then he goes and champions lawslike the infamous &quot;three-strikes&quot; lawthat would disconnect citizens from the Internetfor file sharing,which has been condemned by the U.N. Special Rapporteuron Freedom of Expressionas being a disproportionate violationof citizens&#39; right to communications,and has raised questions amongst civil society groupsabout whethersome political representativesare more interested in preservingthe interests of the entertainment industrythan they are in defending the rights of their citizens.And here in the United Kingdomthere&#39;s also concern overa law called the Digital Economy Actthat&#39;s placing more onuson private intermediariesto police citizen behavior.
时间：12:10
zh-cn:因此我们需要认识到的是如果我们想要在未来拥有一个以民为本的互联网，我们需要一个更广泛更持续的互联网自由运动。毕竟，公司不会理所当然地停止污染地下水，或是雇佣10岁的孩童，仅仅因为行政主管们某天睡醒了决定这是应做之事。这是数十年来持续运动的结果，维护股东利益和消费者权益。同样地，政府不会仅仅因为政治家某天醒来就去颁布颇具智慧的环境和劳动法。这是持续的长期的寻求合理法规和适当的企业行为的政治运动的结果。我们需要在互联网领域采用同样的方法。
en:So what we need to recognizeis that if we want to havea citizen-centric Internet in the future,we need a broader and more sustainedInternet freedom movement.After all, companies didn&#39;t stop polluting groundwateras a matter of course,or employing 10-year-olds as a matter of course,just because executives woke up one dayand decided it was the right thing to do.It was the result of decades of sustained activism,shareholder advocacyand consumer advocacy.Similarly, governments don&#39;t enactintelligent environmental and labor lawsjust because politicians wake up one day.It&#39;s the result of very sustained and prolongedpolitical activismthat you get the right regulations,and that you get the right corporate behavior.We need to make the same approachwith the Internet.
时间：13:02
zh-cn:我们也需要政治创新。大约800年前，英国贵族们决定君权神授不再适合他们，他们强迫约翰王签署了大宪章，其中承认即使是宣称拥有神权的国王也要遵守一些基本的守则。这掀起了一个我们称之为政治创新的循环，这最终导致“人民之意愿”的概念 —这是由一洋之隔的美国的激进革命政府首次实现。因此现在我们需要解决的是，如何构建“网络互联者的意愿”的创新。
en:We also are going to needpolitical innovation.Eight hundred years ago, approximately,the barons of England decidedthat the Divine Right of Kingswas no longer working for them so well,and they forced King Johnto sign the Magna Carta,which recognizedthat even the kingwho claimed to have divine rulestill had to abide by a basic set of rules.This set off a cycleof what we can call political innovation,which led eventually to the idea of consent of the governed —which was implemented for the first timeby that radical revolutionary governmentin America across the pond.So now we need to figure outhow to build consent of the networked.
时间：13:53
zh-cn:这应该是什么样的？目前我们还不知道。但这将需要创新不仅需要关注政治，地缘政治，还需要处理商业管理、投资者行为、消费者选择甚至是软件设计和软件工程的问题。我们中的每个人都至关重要参与构建这样的世界其中政府和技术是为世界人民服务而非相反。
en:And what does that look like?At the moment, we still don&#39;t know.But it&#39;s going to require innovationthat&#39;s not only going to needto focus on politics,on geopolitics,but it&#39;s also going to needto deal with questionsof business management, investor behavior,consumer choiceand even software design and engineering.Each and every one of us has a vital part to playin building the kind of worldin which government and technologyserve the world&#39;s people and not the other way around.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：14:37
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
