时间： 0:12
zh-cn:这是一个肺结核病房，在十九世纪末每七个人中就有一个死于肺结核。我们不清楚这个病的起因。我们猜想可能是我们的体质决定了我们的易感染性。而且这种病被披上了浪漫滴外衣。被称为痨病。它是诗人，艺术家，智者得的病。有些人甚至认为这种病让你变得更敏感，并且赋予你天才的特质。
en:This is a tuberculosis ward,and at the time this picture was takenin the late 1800s,one in seven of all peopledied from tuberculosis.We had no ideawhat was causing this disease.The hypothesis was actuallyit was your constitutionthat made you susceptible.And it was a highly romanticized disease.It was also called consumption,and it was the disorder of poetsand artists and intellectuals.And some people actually thoughtit gave you heightened sensitivityand conferred creative genius.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:到二十世纪五十年代，我们发现肺结核是由一种传染性很强的细菌感染引起的，并没有那么浪漫，然而这让我们想到研发药物来治疗这种疾病的可能性。于是医生们发现了一种新药－异丙嗪，他们乐观地认为可以治愈肺结核，他们把这种药给病人服用，病人们很兴奋。他们变得更活跃，充满生机。一项医学报告提到，他们“ 在走廊手舞足蹈。“可惜的是这并不意味着他们在康复。很多病人依然频临死亡。另外有一份医学报告称他们“不正常得开心”第一种抗抑郁药物就这样发明了。
en:By the 1950s,we instead knewthat tuberculosis was causedby a highly contagiousbacterial infection,which is slightly less romantic,but that had the upsideof us being able to maybedevelop drugs to treat it.So doctors had discovereda new drug, iproniazid,that they were optimisticmight cure tuberculosis,and they gave it to patients,and patients were elated.They were more social, more energetic.One medical report actually saysthey were &quot;dancing in the halls.&quot;And unfortunately,this was not necessarilybecause they were getting better.A lot of them were still dying.Another medical report describes themas being &quot;inappropriately happy.&quot;And that is how the firstantidepressant was discovered.
时间： 1:46
zh-cn:这种巧合在科学领域并不多见，但是它需要的不仅仅是开心的巧合。你需要有能力在这种巧合发生的时候抓住它。
en:So accidental discoveryis not uncommon in science,but it requires morethan just a happy accident.You have to be able to recognize itfor discovery to occur.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:作为一个神经学家，让我与你分享一些我的第一手经验你可能会称之为狗屎运，我更倾向于称之为聪明的运气。首先，说说背景知识。
en:As a neuroscientist,I&#39;m going to talk to you a little bitabout my firsthand experiencewith whatever you want to callthe opposite of dumb luck —let&#39;s call it smart luck.But first, a bit more background.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:自二十世纪五十年代，我们研发了其他药物，我们现在事实上已经可以治愈肺结核。至少在美国是这样。我们关闭了疗养院而且可能你们大部分人已经不是那么担心肺结核。可是在二十世纪初我们对于传染病的担心，和当今的精神病类似。
en:Thankfully, since the 1950s,we&#39;ve developed some other drugsand we can actually now cure tuberculosis.And at least in the United States,though not necessarily in other countries,we have closed our sanitoriumsand probably most of youare not too worried about TB.But a lot of what was truein the early 1900sabout infectious disease,we can say nowabout psychiatric disorders.
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:我们正陷于情绪困扰之中比如抑郁症和创后应激障碍，PTSD。在美国，每四个人中就有一个受精神疾病的困扰，也就是说即使你可能本身没有，或者你的家人没有，可是很有可能你认识的人有，只是他们不说而已。抑郁症实际上已经超越了艾滋病，疟疾，糖尿病和战争成为全球范围健康的头号杀手。就像二十世纪五十年代时的肺结核一样，我们不清楚它的起因。一旦发病，就是慢性会伴随你一生，而且目前无法治愈。
en:We are in the middleof an epidemic of mood disorderslike depression and post-traumaticstress disorder, or PTSD.One in four of all adultsin the United Statessuffers from mental illness,which means that if you haven&#39;texperienced it personallyor someone in your family hasn&#39;t,it&#39;s still very likelythat someone you know has,though they may not talk about it.Depression has actually now surpassedHIV/AIDS, malaria, diabetes and waras the leading causeof disability worldwide.And also, like tuberculosis in the 1950s,we don&#39;t know what causes it.Once it&#39;s developed, it&#39;s chronic,lasts a lifetime,and there are no known cures.
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:第二种抗抑郁药同样偶然发现于二十世纪五十年代，是从让人躁狂的抗组胺药中发现的，丙咪嗪。无论是在结核病还是抗组胺药的个案中，都需要有人发现一种本来用于治疗一种病的药物治疗结核或者抗过敏都可以用于完全不同的治疗－治疗抑郁症。这种改变事实上非常具有挑战性。当医生们最早看到异丙嗪情绪提升的作用时，他们并没有意识到他们看到的是什么。他们总是习惯性地从治疗肺结核的药物的副作用不良的副作用来考虑。
en:The second antidepressant we discovered,also by accident, in the 1950s,from an antihistaminethat was making people manic,imipramine.And in both the case of the tuberculosisward and the antihistamine,someone had to be able to recognizethat a drug that was designedto do one thing —treat tuberculosisor suppress allergies —could be used to dosomething very different —treat depression.And this sort of repurposingis actually quite challenging.When doctors first sawthis mood-enhancing effect of iproniazid,they didn&#39;t really recognizewhat they saw.They were so used to thinking about itfrom the frameworkof being a tuberculosis drugthat they actually just listed itas a side effect, an adverse side effect.
时间： 4:11
zh-cn:基于这个原因，在1954 年许多病人表现出异常的快乐。于是医生们担心这种状态会影响病人肺结核的治疗。于是他们建议异丙嗪只可以用于严重的结核病患者以及心理状态非常稳定的病人，这显然和我们治疗抑郁病患者截然相反。他们太过习惯于只关注一个病的状况，而未能从另一个疾病的角度看到药物更广的适用。
en:As you can see here,a lot of these patients in 1954are experiencing severe euphoria.And they were worriedthat this might somehow interferewith their recovering from tuberculosis.So they recommended that iproniazidonly be used in cases of extreme TBand in patients that werehighly emotionally stable,which is of course the exact oppositeof how we use it as an antidepressant.They were so used to looking at itfrom the perspective of this one disease,they could not see the larger implicationsfor another disease.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:公正地说，这不全是他们的错。我们可能都受着教条主义的影响，我们倾向于只考虑一个事物传统意义上的使用和功能。而且思维方式是另一回事。 对吗？这种我们用于思考的思维定式使得发散思考变得相当困难，也就是，我想，为什么电视节目亲赖于那些善于发散性思维的人们。
en:And to be fair,it&#39;s not entirely their fault.Functional fixednessis a bias that affects all of us.It&#39;s a tendency to onlybe able to think of an objectin terms of its traditionaluse or function.And mental set is another thing. Right?That&#39;s sort of this preconceived frameworkwith which we approach problems.And that actually makes repurposingpretty hard for all of us,which is, I guess, why they gavea TV show to the guy who was,like, really great at repurposing.
时间： 5:15
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:所以，在这两个例子中，异丙嗪和丙咪嗪药效都很强－狂躁或是人们在走廊跳舞。他们被注意到并不奇怪。那么你会否想到我们是否还忽视了其他东西。所以异丙嗪和丙咪嗪他们不仅仅是发散思维的一个案例，他们有其他两样重要的共性，其一， 他们有很强的副作用包括肝中毒，体重增加超过50 磅，自杀倾向。第二， 他们都增加了血清素的指标大脑中的一个化学信号，或者神经传递组织。这两个副作用一起，对，第一个或者第二个可能不是那么重要，但是两者合并意味着我们必须开发更安全的药物而且血清素似乎是个好的突破口。
en:So the effects in both the caseof iproniazid and imipramine,they were so strong —there was mania,or people dancing in the halls.It&#39;s actually not that surprisingthey were caught.But it does make you wonderwhat else we&#39;ve missed.So iproniazid and imipramine,they&#39;re more than justa case study in repurposing.They have two other things in commonthat are really important.One, they have terrible side effects.That includes liver toxicity,weight gain of over 50 pounds,suicidality.And two, they bothincrease levels of serotonin,which is a chemical signal in the brain,or a neurotransmitter.And those two things together,right, one or the two,may not have been that important,but the two together meantthat we had to develop safer drugs,and that serotonin seemedlike a pretty good place to start.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:于是我们研制了专注于血清素的药物，选择性5-羟色胺再摄取抑制剂， SSRIs，最有名的就是Prozac。那是30 年前，从那时起我们致力于优化这些药物。SSRI类药物比以前的药物都好，但是他们也还有副作用，包括体重增加，失眠，自杀倾向－而且药效产生慢，有些患者需要4到6个星期才见效。这是在那些药物产生疗效的患者中。也有许多患者对药物没有反应。
en:So we developed drugsto more specifically focus on serotonin,the selective serotoninreuptake inhibitors, so the SSRIs,the most famous of which is Prozac.And that was 30 years ago,and since then we have mostlyjust worked on optimizing those drugs.And the SSRIs, they are betterthan the drugs that came before them,but they still have a lot of side effects,including weight gain, insomnia,suicidality —and they take a really long time to work,something like four to six weeksin a lot of patients.And that&#39;s in the patientswhere they do work.There are a lot of patientswhere these drugs don&#39;t work.
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:也就是说，现在，在2016年，我们依然没有治愈情绪障碍的药物，只有抑制症状的药物，就好像治疗感染的时候，止痛药和抗菌素的区别。止痛药让你感觉好些，但不能治愈引起痛症的病。是我们思维的灵活性让我们发现 了异丙嗪和丙咪嗪可以用作其他用途，引领我们走向血清素，然后我们专注于大脑的信号，血清素一种SSRI药物如果你不清楚的话，这是图示。在科学领域，我们尽可能排除偏见，是吧？通过双盲试验或者对我们的试验数据持中立的态度。但是偏见却悄悄地渗入到我们研究的课题以及我们选择的研究方法。
en:And that means now, in 2016,we still have no curesfor any mood disorders,just drugs that suppress symptoms,which is kind of the difference betweentaking a painkiller for an infectionversus an antibiotic.A painkiller will make you feel better,but is not going to do anythingto treat that underlying disease.And it was this flexibilityin our thinkingthat let us recognizethat iproniazid and imipraminecould be repurposed in this way,which led us to the serotonin hypothesis,which we then, ironically, fixated on.This is brain signaling, serotonin,from an SSRI commercial.In case you&#39;re not clear,this is a dramatization.And in science, we tryand remove our bias, right,by running double-blinded experimentsor being statistically agnosticas to what our results will be.But bias creeps in more insidiouslyin what we choose to studyand how we choose to study it.
时间： 7:47
zh-cn:所以在过去30年我们潜心于血清素的同时，也排除了其他的事物。我们依然没有根治的方法。假如血清素不是抑郁的全部？或者如果它根本不是抑郁的核心？那就意味着无论我们花多少时间或是金钱，或是努力，我们永远找不到治愈的办法。
en:So we&#39;ve focused on serotonin nowfor the past 30 years,often to the exclusion of other things.We still have no cures,and what if serotoninisn&#39;t all there is to depression?What if it&#39;s not even the key part of it?That means no matter how much timeor money or effort we put into it,it will never lead to a cure.
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:在过去的几年，医生们发现了自从SSRI以来的第一种新抗抑郁药Calypsol而且这种药见效快，只需几个小时或者一天。而且它不影响血清素。它作用于谷氨酸，另一种神经传感器。这也是一个重新定位的例子。这种药传统上是用于手术中的麻醉剂。不像其他的药物，很快就得到认同，人们用了20 年才意识到 Calypsol 是一种抗抑郁药物。尽管事实上它可能比其他的药物都更有效。事实上有可能正因为它是一种更有效的抗抑郁药所以才更难以被大家认识。没有狂躁来凸显它的副作用。
en:In the past few years,doctors have discoveredprobably what is the first truly newantidepressant since the SSRIs,Calypsol,and this drug works very quickly,within a few hours or a day,and it doesn&#39;t work on serotonin.It works on glutamate,which is another neurotransmitter.And it&#39;s also repurposed.It was traditionally usedas anesthesia in surgery.But unlike those other drugs,which were recognized pretty quickly,it took us 20 yearsto realize that Calypsolwas an antidepressant,despite the fact that it&#39;s actuallya better antidepressant,probably, than those other drugs.It&#39;s actually probably because of the factthat it&#39;s a better antidepressantthat it was harder for us to recognize.There was no mania to signal its effects.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:所以在2013年， 在哥伦比亚大学，我在和我的同事Christine Ann Denny 博士工作我们在研究Calypsol作为抗抑郁药物在老鼠身上的反应。Calypsol的半衰期很短，就是说它在几小时内就会被排出体外。我们只是在试验，所以我们会给老鼠注射我们然后等一个星期，然后我们为了省钱会再进行另一个试验。
en:So in 2013, up at Columbia University,I was working with my colleague,Dr. Christine Ann Denny,and we were studying Calypsolas an antidepressant in mice.And Calypsol has, like,a really short half-life,which means it&#39;s out of your bodywithin a few hours.And we were just piloting.So we would give an injection to mice,and then we&#39;d wait a week,and then we&#39;d runanother experiment to save money.
时间： 9:19
zh-cn:在我的一个试验中，我们会给老鼠们施加压力，我们把这当作一个抑郁样本。起初看起来好像根本没什么作用所以我们本应该停止。但是我做这个抑郁试验多年，收集到的数据有些怪。反正就是看起来不对。于是我回去，重新分析根据它们是否被注射 Calypsol一星期前数据是这样的如果你看最左边，如果你把一只老鼠放在一个新环境这是那个盒子，它很兴奋，老鼠会到处走来走去。你看到的粉色线时它们走动的记录我们还给它提供了另外一只装在笔盒里的老鼠如果它愿意，可以和它交流。这也是一个图示，让大家看得更清楚。一个正常的老鼠会探索。会社交。查看周围在发生什么。如果你给老鼠压力，让它抑郁，像中间的这个盒子，它们不会社交，不会探索，多数时间它们会躲在杯子后面角落。然而那些注射了一针Calypsol的老鼠在右边它们在探索，在交流。它们看上去似乎从未被抑郁不可思议。
en:And one of the experiments I was running,we would stress the mice,and we used that as a model of depression.And at first it kind of just lookedlike it didn&#39;t really work at all.So we could have stopped there.But I have run this modelof depression for years,and the data just looked kind of weird.It didn&#39;t really look right to me.So I went back,and we reanalyzed itbased on whether or not they had gottenthat one injection of Calypsola week beforehand.And it looked kind of like this.So if you look at the far left,if you put a mouse in a new space,this is the box, it&#39;s very exciting,a mouse will walk around and explore,and you can see that pink lineis actually the measure of them walking.And we also give itanother mouse in a pencil cupthat it can decide to interact with.This is also a dramatization,in case that&#39;s not clear.And a normal mouse will explore.It will be social.Check out what&#39;s going on.If you stress a mousein this depression model,which is the middle box,they aren&#39;t social, they don&#39;t explore.They mostly just kind of hidein that back corner, behind a cup.Yet the mice that had gottenthat one injection of Calypsol,here on your right,they were exploring, they were social.They looked like theyhad never been stressed at all,which is impossible.
时间：10:41
zh-cn:我们本可以就此打住，但是Christine曾经使用过Calypsol 做为麻醉药物，几年前她曾经看到它似乎对细胞有些奇怪的作用而且一些其他行为似乎在用药之后持续很久，可能有几个星期。于是我们觉得，好的，也许这不是完全不可能。但是我们也充满疑惑。
en:So we could have just stopped there,but Christine had also usedCalypsol before as anesthesia,and a few years ago she had seenthat it seemed to havesome weird effects on cellsand some other behaviorthat also seemed to lastlong after the drug,maybe a few weeks.So we were like, OK,maybe this is not completely impossible,but we were really skeptical.
时间：11:02
zh-cn:于是我们做了在科学上当你疑惑的时候该做的事，再次试验。我记得在动物房把老鼠从一个盒子放到另一个盒子来试验它们，Christine 就坐在地上， 腿上放着她的手提电脑，这样老鼠就看不到她。她在做实地数据分析。我记得我们大叫，（当然不应该在做测试的动物房这样做）因为我们成功了。似乎这些老鼠受到了能够对抗压力的保护，或者说他们不适当地快乐，你怎么形容都好。我们非常激动。
en:So we did what you do in sciencewhen you&#39;re not sure,and we ran it again.And I remember being in the animal room,moving mice from box to boxto test them,and Christine was actually sittingon the floor with the computer in her lapso the mice couldn&#39;t see her,and she was analyzingthe data in real time.And I remember us yelling,which you&#39;re not supposed to doin an animal room where you&#39;re testing,because it had worked.It seemed like these micewere protected against stress,or they were inappropriately happy,however you want to call it.And we were really excited.
时间：11:38
zh-cn:然后我们变得很疑惑因为这个结果好得令人难以置信。于是我们又做了一次试验。我们又做了一次，不过是用 PTSD 模式然后我们又做了一次心理试验模式我们给他们压力荷尔蒙我们让本科生做的实验然后我们让在法国的合作者实验每一次的试验都验证了同样的结果。似乎一剂 Calypsol 的注射可以防止压力过量几个星期。
en:And then we were really skeptical,because it was too good to be true.So we ran it again.And then we ran it again in a PTSD model,and we ran it againin a physiological model,where all we did was give stress hormones.And we had our undergrads run it.And then we had our collaboratorshalfway across the world in France run it.And every time someone ran it,they confirmed the same thing.It seemed likethis one injection of Calypsolwas somehow protectingagainst stress for weeks.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:一年前我们发表了这个，从那时起其他的实验室独立验证了这项效果所以我们不知道抑郁的本源，但是我们知道压力是诱因百分之八十的个案中，抑郁和创伤后应激障碍是不同的疾病，但是他们有共性对吧？那就是强大的压力就像剧烈的战斗或者自然灾害或者社区暴力，性侵都会引起创伤后应激障碍，但是不是每个经历过刺激的人都会产生情绪障碍。这种经历创伤但能恢复而且不形成抑郁或创伤后应激障碍就是我们说的抗压恢复能力。这种能力每个人都不一样。我们一直以为它是一种负面因素是缺乏敏感因素以及这些心理障碍的风险因素但是如果它是活性的，也许我们可以加强它好像给它戴上盔甲。
en:And we only published this a year ago,but since then other labshave independently confirmed this effect.So we don&#39;t know what causes depression,but we do know that stressis the initial triggerin 80 percent of cases,and depression and PTSDare different diseases,but this is somethingthey share in common.Right? It is traumatic stresslike active combat or natural disastersor community violence or sexual assaultthat causes post-traumaticstress disorder,and not everyone that is exposed to stressdevelops a mood disorder.And this ability to experiencestress and be resilientand bounce back and not developdepression or PTSDis known as stress resilience,and it varies between people.And we have always thought of itas just sort of this passive property.It&#39;s the absence of susceptibility factorsand risk factors for these disorders.But what if it were active?Maybe we could enhance it,sort of akin to putting on armor.
时间：13:12
zh-cn:我们碰巧发现了第一种提高抗压力的药物。像我说的那样，我们只给了很小剂量的药物，药效持续了几个星期，这不是你所了解的抗抑郁药物。
en:We had accidentally discoveredthe first resilience-enhancing drug.And like I said, we only gavea tiny amount of the drug,and it lasted for weeks,and that&#39;s not like anythingyou see with antidepressants.
时间：13:25
zh-cn:但是它却像是接种疫苗如果你接种了疫苗，那么几周，几个月，几年后，当你接触细菌的时候不是你身体里的疫苗在保护你，是你自身的免疫系统已经产生了对这种细菌的抗体在对抗细菌而你从未真正被感染过。这和我们的治疗不同，是吧？在那种情况下，你接种，接触细菌，你生病，然后你吃抗生素来治疗而那些药物实际上杀死了细菌或者像我以前所说的，使用这种姑息治疗，你服用药物掩盖病症，而不能治愈引起病痛的源头在你用药的时候你觉得好些，于是你不得不持续用药。对于抑郁和创伤后应激障碍我们看到你的焦虑我们只能保守治疗，抗抑郁药只能缓解症状，所以你得不停地使用药物在你整个患病阶段通常会是你的一生。
en:But it is actually kind of similarto what you see in immune vaccines.So in immune vaccines,you&#39;ll get your shots,and then weeks, months, years later,when you&#39;re actually exposed to bacteria,it&#39;s not the vaccine in your bodythat protects you.It&#39;s your own immune systemthat&#39;s developed resistance and resilienceto this bacteria that fights it off,and you actually never get the infection,which is very differentfrom, say, our treatments. Right?In that case, you get the infection,you&#39;re exposed to the bacteria,you&#39;re sick, and then you take,say, an antibiotic which cures it,and those drugs are actually workingto kill the bacteria.Or similar to as I said before,with this palliative,you&#39;ll take somethingthat will suppress the symptoms,but it won&#39;t treatthe underlying infection,and you&#39;ll only feel betterduring the time in which you&#39;re taking it,which is why you have to keep taking it.And in depression and PTSD —here we have your stress exposure —we only have palliative care.Antidepressants only suppress symptoms,and that is why you basicallyhave to keep taking themfor the life of the disease,which is oftenthe length of your own life.
时间：14:34
zh-cn:所以我们把提升恢复能力的药叫做类疫苗意思是和疫苗相似因为它似乎有抗焦虑的潜质防止老鼠患上抑郁症和创伤后应激障碍症。而且，不是所有的抗抑郁药物都是疫苗类的。我们尝试过Prozac，没有效果。
en:So we&#39;re calling our resilience-enhancingdrugs &quot;paravaccines,&quot;which means vaccine-like,because it seemslike they might have the potentialto protect against stressand prevent mice from developingdepression and post-traumaticstress disorder.Also, not all antidepressantsare also paravaccines.We tried Prozac as well,and that had no effect.
时间：15:00
zh-cn:所以如果用于人类的话，我们可能可以保护那些高危人群免受焦虑引起的心理疾病的困扰，比如抑郁症和创伤后应激障碍症。也就是第一反应者，消防员，难民，罪犯，监管人员士兵，等等。
en:So if this were to translate into humans,we might be able to protect peoplewho are predictably at riskagainst stress-induced disorderslike depression and PTSD.So that&#39;s first respondersand firefighters,refugees, prisoners and prison guards,soldiers, you name it.
时间：15:22
zh-cn:让我们了解一下这些疾病的数据在2010年，全球疾病负担大约2.5万亿由于它们是慢性病这个花销还要复加，所以预期会在未来15 年内上升到6万亿元。
en:And to give you a senseof the scale of these diseases,in 2010, the global burden of diseasewas estimated at 2.5 trillion dollars,and since they are chronic,that cost is compoundingand is therefore expected to riseup to six trillion dollarsin just the next 15 years.
时间：15:43
zh-cn:我前面提到过基于我们的偏见，发散思维具有挑战性Calypsol 有另一个名字氯胺酮也称作K 仔是一种在夜总会可以见到的被滥用的药物。它还在全世界被用作麻醉剂。它被用于儿童。我们在战场使用。在很多国家属于非处方药物因为它不会影响呼吸。在世界卫生组织被列为必要药物。
en:As I mentioned before,repurposing can be challengingbecause of our prior biases.Calypsol has another name,ketamine,which also goes by another name,Special K,which is a club drug and drug of abuse.It&#39;s still used across the worldas an anesthetic.It&#39;s used in children.We use it on the battlefield.It&#39;s actually the drug of choicein a lot of developing nations,because it doesn&#39;t affect breathing.It is on the World Health Organizationlist of most essential medicines.
时间：16:17
zh-cn:如果我们早些发现氯胺酮可以用作疫苗那我们就可以把他研发成疫苗可是，我们不得不对抗我们的功能固定性以及教条思维幸运的是，这不是我们发现的唯一具有疫苗潜质的药物。但是所有其他我们发现的药物都很新它们不得不通过整个药物与食品审批过程在他们可以在人身上使用之前我们得等许多年。所以如果我们早些氯胺酮已经通过了审批它是通用的，可用的。我们可以在很短的时间用很便宜的价格开发研制
en:If we had discovered ketamineas a paravaccine first,it&#39;d be pretty easy for us to develop it,but as is, we have to competewith our functional fixednessand mental set that kind of interfere.Fortunately, it&#39;s notthe only compound we have discoveredthat has these prophylactic,paravaccine qualities,but all of the other drugswe&#39;ve discovered,or compounds if you will,they&#39;re totally new,they have to go throughthe entire FDA approval process —if they make it beforethey can ever be used in humans.And that will be years.So if we wanted something sooner,ketamine is already FDA-approved.It&#39;s generic, it&#39;s available.We could develop it for a fractionof the price and a fraction of the time.
时间：17:07
zh-cn:可是实际上，除了固定思维和教条，还有另一个挑战就是制度。没有奖励制度只要一种药物是通用药物而且没有专利，不再为一家所有来鼓励药厂研发产品，因为没钱可赚。这不仅仅针对氯胺酮，所有的药都一样。无论怎样，在精神病领域这个使用药物防止精神病而不是相反地去治疗是一个新奇的想法。
en:But actually, beyondfunctional fixedness and mental set,there&#39;s a real other challengeto repurposing drugs,which is policy.There are no incentives in placeonce a drug is generic and off patentand no longer exclusiveto encourage pharma companiesto develop them,because they don&#39;t make money.And that&#39;s not true for just ketamine.That is true for all drugs.Regardless, the idea itselfis completely novel in psychiatry,to use drugs to prevent mental illnessas opposed to just treat it.
时间：17:43
zh-cn:也许20， 50， 100 年后，我们会回头看抑郁症和创伤后应激障碍症，就像我们现在回头看肺结核和疗养院一样这有可能是结束精神病泛滥的开始。
en:It is possible that 20, 50,100 years from now,we will look back nowat depression and PTSDthe way we look backat tuberculosis sanitoriumsas a thing of the past.This could be the beginning of the endof the mental health epidemic.
时间：18:04
zh-cn:有位伟大的科学家曾说过只要傻子才确知一切。聪明人总是不断猜想。
en:But as a great scientist once said,&quot;Only a fool is sure of anything.A wise man keeps on guessing.&quot;
时间：18:15
zh-cn:谢谢你们！
en:Thank you, guys.
时间：18:16
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
