时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在我大学第一年的时候，我就在波士顿法律系统的住房部得到了一个实习机会。当我第一天上班准备喝点咖啡，复印东西的时候，我就和Jeff Purcell这个有正义感的律师组成了一组，他把我从第一天起就推到了前线。
en:So my freshman year of collegeI signed up for an internship in the housing unitat Greater Boston Legal Services.Showed up the first dayready to make coffee and photocopies,but was paired with this righteous, deeply inspired attorneynamed Jeff Purcell,who thrust me onto the front linesfrom the very first day.
时间： 0:32
zh-cn:在9个月里，我有机会和波士顿低收入家庭有许多对话，他们和我谈起住房问题，但这些问题都有一个潜在的卫生问题。我有一个客户跟我说，他马上就要被驱逐出住所因为他付不起房租。当然他没有付房租，不过是因为他要支付艾滋病治疗费用所以他没法付起两样钱。我们的客户中有妈妈，说她们的女儿有哮喘，每天早上身上爬满蟑螂。所以我们的一个诉讼手段就是把我送到这些人家里带着大玻璃瓶。然后我用大玻璃瓶来收集这些蟑螂，把他们封起来，然后带到法院。我们总赢因为法官法官自己感到恶心。我想说，这方法比我在法学院以后学的所有东西都管用。
en:And over the course of nine monthsI had the chanceto have dozens of conversationswith low-income families in Bostonwho would come in presenting with housing issues,but always had an underlying health issue.So I had a client who came in,about to be evicted because he hasn&#39;t paid his rent.But he hasn&#39;t paid his rent, of course,because he&#39;s paying for his HIV medicationand just can&#39;t afford both.We had moms who would come in,daughter has asthma,wakes up covered in cockroaches every morning.And one of our litigation strategieswas actually to send me into the home of these clientswith these large glass bottles.And I would collect the cockroaches,hot glue-gun them to this poster boardthat we&#39;d bring to court for our cases.And we always wonbecause the judges were just so grossed out.Far more effective, I have to say,than anything I later learned in law school.
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:但在那九个月里，我觉得我们的工作已经太迟了，并且我被这种感觉所折磨，那些人到我们这里的时候，他们已经在危机当中。所以在我大一结束的时候，我读到了关于巴里·扎克曼博士的工作他在当儿科主任在波士顿医疗中心。他的第一个工作就是作为律师代表病人。
en:But over the course of these nine months,I grew frustrated with feelinglike we were intervening too far downstreamin the lives of our clients —that by the time they came to us,they were already in crisis.And at the end of my freshman year of college,I read an article about the workthat Dr. Barry Zuckerman was doingas Chair of Pediatricsat Boston Medical Center.And his first hire was a legal services attorneyto represent the patients.
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:所以我打电话给巴里博士，并且在他的帮助下，在1995年十月，我走进了波士顿医疗中心的儿科诊所等候室。我永远不会忘记那里的电视不断地播放卡通。还有母亲的劳累，他们也许已经做了2回，3回，有时4回的公交车就为了带她们的孩子来看以上，这经历现在我都印象很深。
en:So I called Barry,and with his blessing, in October 1995walked into the waiting roomof the pediatrics clinic at Boston Medical Center.I&#39;ll never forget,the TVs played this endless reel of cartoons.And the exhaustion of motherswho had taken two, three, sometimes four busesto bring their child to the doctorwas just palpable.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:然而，医生似乎永远没有足够的时间来看这些病人，尽管他们很努力。在6个月里，我在走廊拐角看到他们问他们一个很简单但基础的问题，“如果你有无限的组员，你最想给这些病人什么？”
en:The doctors, it seemed,never really had enough time for all the patients,try as they might.And over the course of six months,I would corner them in the hallwayand ask them a sort of naive but fundamental question:&quot;If you had unlimited resources,what&#39;s the one thing you would give your patients?&quot;
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:我听到相同的答复，这个答复我已经听到数百遍了。他们说：“每天我们都有病人，对于耳朵感染的孩子，我给他们开抗生素。但真正的问题是他们家没有食物。真正的问题是这个孩子在一个两居室里和12个人同居。所以我甚至就不问这些了因为我什么也做不了。对于一个病人我有13分钟。病人在诊所等候室堆积。我不知道哪里能弄到吃的，我也没有帮助。”在那个诊所，每天，有两个社会工作者来应对24000个儿童病人，这也比其他诊所要强得多。
en:And I heard the same story again and again,a story we&#39;ve heard hundreds of times since then.They said, &quot;Every day we have patients that come into the clinic —child has an ear infection,I prescribe antibiotics.But the real issue is there&#39;s no food at home.The real issueis that child is living with 12 other peoplein a two-bedroom apartment.And I don&#39;t even ask about those issuesbecause there&#39;s nothing I can do.I have 13 minutes with each patient.Patients are piling up in the clinic waiting room.I have no idea where the nearest food pantry is.And I don&#39;t even have any help.&quot;In that clinic, even today,there are two social workersfor 24,000 pediatric patients,which is better than a lot of the clinics out there.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:所以健康领导项目就在这些对话中产生了——一个简单的模型，在其中医生和护士可以像开药一样开食物，在冬天开供暖以及给病人开其他基本资源和开药是一模一样的。然后病人拿着他们的厨房到我们在诊所等候室的桌子前在这里我们有训练有素的大学生志愿者来和这些家庭共同工作把他们和已有的资源连接起来。
en:So Health Leads was born of these conversations —a simple modelwhere doctors and nursescan prescribe nutritious food,heat in the winterand other basic resources for their patientsthe same way they prescribe medication.Patients then take their prescriptionsto our desk in the clinic waiting roomwhere we have a core of well-trained college student advocateswho work side by side with these familiesto connect them outto the existing landscape of community resources.
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:所以我们以一个小桌子作为开始——就像一个柠檬汁柜台那样。但现在我们有1000个大学生，来把尽9000患者和家庭和资源联系起来让他们健康。
en:So we began with a card table in the clinic waiting room —totally lemonade stand style.But today we have a thousand college student advocateswho are working to connect nearly 9,000 patients and their familieswith the resources that they need to be healthy.
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:所以18个月前，我收到了一封改变我一生的邮件。这个邮件是从杰克·盖格博士发来的，他祝贺我在健康领导项目上取得的成功并且像他所说，和我分享一些历史背景。在1965年，盖格博士建立了这个国家两个最早的社区健康中心的一个，在密西西比三角洲最贫穷的地方。然后有太多营养不良的病人进来使得他开始给他们开食物。然后他们把这些处方带到当地超市，然后超市提供食物并从诊所的药物预算中拿钱。当华盛顿特区的经济机会办公室——这个办公室在自助盖格的诊所——发现这个的时候，他们很生气。并且当他们拍官员告诉盖格用这些钱来提供医疗服务的时候——盖格发表了著名且有逻辑的回应，“最近一次我看我的教科书的时候，书上说营养不良的疗法就是食物。”
en:So 18 months agoI got this email that changed my life.And the email was from Dr. Jack Geiger,who had written to congratulate me on Health Leadsand to share, as he said,a bit of historical context.In 1965 Dr. Geiger foundedone of the first two community health centers in this country,in a brutally poor area in the Mississippi Delta.And so many of his patients came inpresenting with malnutritionthat be began prescribing food for them.And they would take these prescriptions to the local supermarket,which would fill themand then charge the pharmacy budget of the clinic.And when the Office of Economic Opportunity in Washington, D.C. —which was funding Geiger&#39;s clinic —found out about this,they were furious.And they sent this bureaucrat downto tell Geiger that he was expected to use their dollarsfor medical care —to which Geiger famously and logically responded,&quot;The last time I checked my textbooks,the specific therapy for malnutrition was food.&quot;
时间： 5:04
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:所以当我收到盖格的邮件的时候，我知道我应该为是这个历史的一部分而感到自豪。但事实上，我很沮丧。现在是这个情况，当盖格给病人开食物45年后，有医生告诉我，“在那些问题上，我们保持”不许问，不许说“的政策。”45年后，健康领导必须要重新发明开基本资源的处方。所以我花了很多小时，来尝试途理解这个奇怪的土拨鼠节。我们为什么在几十年前就有一个很直接的手段来让我们的病人特别是低收入病人健康，但不用？如果我们知道什么组成一个健康保障系统，而不是一个疾病治疗系统，我们为什么不做？
en:So when I got this email from Dr. Geiger,I knew I was supposed to be proudto be part of this history.But the truth isI was devastated.Here we are,45 years after Geiger has prescribed food for his patients,and I have doctors telling me,&quot;On those issues, we practice a &#39;don&#39;t ask, don&#39;t tell&#39; policy.&quot;Forty-five years after Geiger,Health Leads has to reinventthe prescription for basic resources.So I have spent hours upon hourstrying to make sense of this weird Groundhog Day.How is it that if for decadeswe had a pretty straightforward tool for keeping patients,and especially low-income patients, healthy,that we didn&#39;t use it?If we know what it takes to have a healthcare systemrather than a sick-care system,why don&#39;t we just do it?
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:我认为，这些问题不是因为答案很复杂而变得很难，而是因为我们需要对我们自己诚实。我的观点是这太痛苦了来说出来我们对健康系统的渴望，或者甚至承认我们有一个健康系统。因为如果我们这么做，那些健康系统就会里我们的现实太远了。但这不会改变我的观点：我们所有人在内心深处在这个房间里和国家里，有一些相同的渴望。我们如果诚实对待我们自己，仔细倾听，我们有一个强烈的渴望，对于我们的健康系统：就是它让我们健康。
en:These questions, in my mind,are not hard because the answers are complicated,they are hard because they require that we be honest with ourselves.My belief is that it&#39;s almost too painfulto articulate our aspirations for our healthcare system,or even admit that we have any at all.Because if we did,they would be so removedfrom our current reality.But that doesn&#39;t change my beliefthat all of us, deep inside,here in this room and across this country,share a similar set of desires.That if we are honest with ourselvesand listen quietly,that we all harborone fiercely held aspiration for our healthcare:that it keep us healthy.
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:这个渴望是一个很强有力的渴望。我是这么认为的：健康系统和其他所有系统一样。只是人们做的一系列选择。如果我们决定做出一套不同的选择会怎么样呢？如果我们决定吧所有离我们现实越来越远的部分拿出来然后坚定地说“不，这些是我们的。这些要为我们所用。这些要用来实现我们的希望”又会怎么样呢？如果所有我们需要的来实现我们的渴望就在我们前方等着我们去得到又会怎么样呢？
en:This aspiration that our healthcare keep us healthyis an enormously powerful one.And the way I think about thisis that healthcare is like any other system.It&#39;s just a set of choices that people make.What if we decidedto make a different set of choices?What if we decided to take all the parts of healthcarethat have drifted away from usand stand firm and say, &quot;No.These things are ours.They will be used for our purposes.They will be used to realizeour aspiration&quot;?What if everything we neededto realize our aspiration for healthcarewas right there in front of usjust waiting to be claimed?
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:所以这就是健康领导的起点。我们从处方板开始——一个很普通的值——然后我们不问病人需要什么来变得健康——抗生素，呼吸器，药物——而是病人需要什么来保持健康，从根本上就不生病？所以我们选择以这个目的来开处方。所以就在几英里外在儿童国家健康中心，当病人进入医生办公室是，他们被问到一些问题。他们被问到：“你在月底还有吃的吗？你有健康的住房吗？&quot;并且当医生开始走访，她知道是否家里有食物，是否有住所。这不仅导致了更好的临床选择，更能让医生给病人开这些资源，在健康领导的指引下。
en:So that&#39;s where Health Leads began.We started with the prescription pad —a very ordinary piece of paper —and we asked, not what do patients need to get healthy —antibiotics, an inhaler, medication —but what do patients need to be healthy,to not get sick in the first place?And we chose to use the prescriptionfor that purpose.So just a few miles from hereat Children&#39;s National Medical Center,when patients come into the doctor&#39;s office,they&#39;re asked a few questions.They&#39;re asked, &quot;Are you running out of food at the end of the month?Do you have safe housing?&quot;And when the doctor begins the visit,she knows height, weight, is there food at home,is the family living in a shelter.And that not only leads to a better set of clinical choices,but the doctor can also prescribe those resources for the patient,using Health Leads like any other sub-specialty referral.
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:问题是，一旦你知道怎样实现你对健康系统的愿望，你就想要更多。所以我们想，如果我们能让医生个人来开这些基本资源，我们能让整个健康系统改变吗？现在我们在做这个工作。
en:The problem is,once you get a taste of what it&#39;s liketo realize your aspiration for healthcare,you want more.So we thought,if we can get individual doctorsto prescribe these basic resources for their patients,could we get an entire healthcare systemto shift its presumption?And we gave it a shot.
时间： 8:38
zh-cn:在哈雷姆医疗中心，当身高体重指数过高的病人进来时，电子医疗系统自动为健康领导开除处方。然后我们的志愿者就可以和他们一起工作来把病人和食物及健身项目联系起来这全在他们的社区里。我们提出了一个新的概念就是如果你是一个身高体重指数过高的病人，那么医生办公室也许不能给你所有你需要来保持健康的东西。你需要更多。
en:So now at Harlem Hospital Centerwhen patients come in with an elevated body mass index,the electronic medical recordautomatically generates a prescription for Health Leads.And our volunteers can then work with themto connect patients to healthy food and excercise programsin their communities.We&#39;ve created a presumptionthat if you&#39;re a patient at that hospitalwith an elevated BMI,the four walls of the doctor&#39;s officeprobably aren&#39;t going to give you everythingyou need to be healthy.You need more.
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:所以与方面，这只是一个电子医疗基础记录。但另一方面，这是一个电子医疗记录的根本的改变从静止诊断信息到健康促进工具。在私人领域，当你把这些额外价值从一个固定成本投资中挤出来，这是一个十亿美元公司的做法。但在我的世界里，这是减少肥胖和糖尿病的方法。这是健康保障——一个系统其中医生可以开出解决方案来促进健康，而不只是治疗疾病。
en:So on the one hand,this is just a basic recodingof the electronic medical record.And on the other hand,it&#39;s a radical transformationof the electronic medical recordfrom a static repository of diagnostic informationto a health promotion tool.In the private sector,when you squeeze that kind of additional valueout of a fixed-cost investment,it&#39;s called a billion-dollar company.But in my world,it&#39;s called reduced obesity and diabetes.It&#39;s called healthcare —a system where doctors can prescribe solutionsto improve health,not just manage disease.
时间： 9:43
zh-cn:同样的事发生在诊所等候室里。每天在这个国家三百万病人从150000个等候室里走过。他们在那里做什么？他们坐着，看着鱼缸里的金鱼，读着很旧的杂志。但通常我们只是坐在那里，等候。我们怎样实现我们付出几百英里几千小时等待？如果我们有一个等候室在其中你不仅仅坐着，而是在那里就变得健康会怎样？如果机场可以变成商场，麦当劳可以变成操场，当然我们可以重新创造等候室。
en:Same thing in the clinic waiting room.So every day in this countrythree million patientspass through about 150,000 clinic waiting rooms in this country.And what do they do when they&#39;re there?They sit, they watch the goldfish in the fish tank,they read extremely old copiesof Good Housekeeping magazine.But mostly we all just sit there forever, waiting.How did we get herewhere we devote hundreds of acres and thousands of hoursto waiting?What if we had a waiting roomwhere you don&#39;t just sit when you&#39;re sick,but where you go to get healthy.If airports can become shopping mallsand McDonald&#39;s can become playgrounds,surely we can reinvent the clinic waiting room.
时间：10:27
zh-cn:这就是健康领导在做的，重新利用那片地和时间并且把它做成一个过道来连接病人和让他们健康的资源。在东北部寒冷的冬天，你的孩子有哮喘，但你却没有暖气，当然你在等候室里，因为外面的冷风会让你的孩子咳嗽。但如果不是在等候室里焦急的等几个小时，而是让等候室变成一个平台利用这个平台健康领导能让你的暖气重新工作会怎样呢？
en:And that&#39;s what Health Leads has tried to do,to reclaim that real estate and that timeand to use it as a gatewayto connect patientsto the resources they need to be healthy.So it&#39;s a brutal winter in the Northeast,your kid has asthma, your heat just got turned off,and of course you&#39;re in the waiting room of the ER,because the cold air triggered your child&#39;s asthma.But what if instead of waiting for hours anxiously,the waiting room became the placewhere Health Leads turned your heat back on?
时间：10:53
zh-cn:当然这需要很多的劳动力。但如果我们有创意，我们已经有了。我们知道我们的医生和护士甚至社会工作者的力量并不够，医疗护理的时间还太有限。健康需要更多时间。它需要一个非临床的队伍这个队伍由社区健康工作者和特例经理以及其他许多的人组成。
en:And of course all of this requiresa broader workforce.But if we&#39;re creative, we already have that too.We know that our doctors and nursesand even social workersaren&#39;t enough,that the ticking minutes of health careare too constraining.Health just takes more time.It requires a non-clinical armyof community health workers and case managersand many others.
时间：11:17
zh-cn:如果一小部分队伍是1100万大学生又会怎么样呢？不受临床责任所限，不想从那些想压迫病人的官员口中得到不行的答案，并且具备无可匹敌的信息收集能力且被不断从用谷歌中加强。
en:What if a small part of that next healthcare workforcewere the 11 million college students in this country?Unencumbered by clinical responsibilities,unwilling to take no for an answerfrom those bureaucraciesthat tend to crush patients,and with an unparalleled abilityfor information retrievalhoned through years of using Google.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:现在免得你认为一个大学志愿者可以做出这种工作是不可能的，我有两个词给你：三月疯狂。平均一个美国顶级大学生篮球联赛球员每周付出39小时在运动中。现在不过我们认为这时好时坏，这是事实。并且健康领导是基于这样一个事实：已经有太长时间，我们关于学生问的太少了当谈及脆弱社区的实际影响。高校运动队说，“我们要花几十个小时在一些校园里的地方，在一些不虔诚的小时，在早上，我们要去衡量你的表现和你的团队的表现，如果你不来衡量或者不来了，我们就要把你淘汰。但我们会投资大量的钱用于你的训练和发展，并且我们会给你很出色的队友。”门外排队的人只是为了成为它的一部分。
en:Now lest you think it improbablethat a college volunteercan make this kind of commitment,I have two words for you:March Madness.The average NCAA Division I men&#39;s basketball playerdedicates 39 hours a week to his sport.Now we may think that&#39;s good or bad,but in either case it&#39;s real.And Health Leads is based on the presumptionthat for too longwe have asked too little of our college studentswhen it comes to real impact in vulnerable communities.College sports teams say,&quot;We&#39;re going to take dozens of hoursat some field across campus at some ungodly hour of the morningand we&#39;re going to measure your performance, and your team&#39;s performance,and if you don&#39;t measure up or you don&#39;t show up,we&#39;re going to cut you off the team.But we&#39;ll make huge investmentsin your training and development,and we&#39;ll give you an extraordinary community of peers.&quot;And people line up out the doorjust for the chance to be part of it.
时间：12:35
zh-cn:所以我们的感觉就是，如果它对于橄榄球队很好，他也对健康和贫困很好。健康领导也用一个很苛刻的条件选拔志愿者，给予高强度的训练，专业的训练，需要大量的时间，来筑造一个有凝聚力的团队并且检测结果 — —类似一个为美国而教学的健康保障。
en:So our feeling is,if it&#39;s good enough for the rugby team,it&#39;s good enough for health and poverty.Health Leads too recruits competitively,trains intensively,coaches professionally,demands significant time,builds a cohesive teamand measures results —a kind of Teach for America for healthcare.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:现在，在美国的10个医疗补助患者最多的城市，每一个人拥有至少 20000 名高校学生。纽约一个州就有50万大学生。这不只是一种短期的劳动力来进行把病人和基本资源连接的工作，它是下一代医疗保健领导的通道那些花了二、 三、 四年在诊所等候室给病人谈论他们最基本的卫生需求的人。他们带着决心离开，能力和效率来实现我们对卫生保健的最基本愿望。所以，成千上万的人已经到了。
en:Now in the top 10 cities in the U.S.with the largest number of Medicaid patients,each of those has at least 20,000 college students.New York alone has half a million college students.And this isn&#39;t just a sort of short-term workforceto connect patients to basic resources,it&#39;s a next generation healthcare leadership pipelinewho&#39;ve spent two, three, four yearsin the clinic waiting roomtalking to patients about their most basic health needs.And they leave with the conviction,the ability and the efficacyto realize our most basic aspirations for health care.And the thing is, there&#39;s thousands of these folks already out there.
时间：13:32
zh-cn:米亚洛是UCSF健康中心的内科负责人，但作为在本科的三年里她是健康领导的志愿者在波士顿医疗中心诊所等候室工作。米亚说，&quot;如果我的同学们开了处方，他们就认为他们的工作已经完成了。当我写了药，我认为，家庭可以理解这个处方吗？他们能到药房吗？他们有吃的吗？他们有保险吗？这些是我在健康领导中学到的，而不是在医学院。&quot;
en:So Mia Lozada is Chief Resident of Internal Medicineat UCSF Medical Center,but for three years as an undergraduateshe was a Health Leads volunteerin the clinic waiting room at Boston Medical Center.Mia says, &quot;When my classmates write a prescription,they think their work is done.When I write a prescription,I think, can the family read the prescription?Do they have transportation to the pharmacy?Do they have food to take with the prescription?Do they have insurance to fill the prescription?Those are the questions I learned at Health Leads,not in medical school.&quot;
时间：14:06
zh-cn:现在没有任何这些解决方案 — —药方，电子医疗记录，等候室，大学生队伍——是完美的。但他们是我们的责任 — —简单的例子关于大量未充分利用医疗资源的如果我们回收和重新调配，可以实现我们最基本的愿望卫生保健。
en:Now none of these solutions —the prescription pad, the electronic medical record,the waiting room,the army of college students —are perfect.But they are ours for the taking —simple examplesof the vast under-utilized healthcare resourcesthat, if we reclaimed and redeployed,could realize our most basic aspirationof healthcare.
时间：14:30
zh-cn:所以我一直在约九个月的法律服务当这个健康领导项目被我想时。我知道我不得不告诉我的律师，杰夫 · 珀塞尔我需要离开。我很紧张，因为我以为他要将对我失望因为我放弃我们的客户而进行一些疯狂的想法。他坐下，我说，&quot;杰夫，我有这种想法我们可以调动大学生来解决病人最基本的健康需要。”我是诚实的我只是他不是生我的气。但他表示，这一点，&quot;罗贝卡，当你有一个远景你就有义务要实现这一理想。你必须追求这一愿景。&quot;我不得不说，我就像&quot;哇。这压力很大。”我只想要祝福，我不想要命令。但事实是自那时以来我几乎花了醒着的每一分钟追求这一愿景。
en:So I had been at Legal Services for about nine monthswhen this idea of Health Leads started percolating in my mind.And I knew I had to tell Jeff Purcell, my attorney,that I needed to leave.And I was so nervous,because I thought he was going to be disappointed in mefor abandoning our clients for some crazy idea.And I sat down with him and I said,&quot;Jeff, I have this ideathat we could mobilize college studentsto address patients&#39; most basic health needs.&quot;And I&#39;ll be honest,all I wanted was for him to not be angry at me.But he said this,&quot;Rebecca, when you have a vision,you have an obligation to realize that vision.You must pursue that vision.&quot;And I have to say, I was like &quot;Whoa.That&#39;s a lot of pressure.&quot;I just wanted a blessing,I didn&#39;t want some kind of mandate.But the truth isI&#39;ve spent every waking minute nearly since thenchasing that vision.
时间：15:27
zh-cn:我相信我们都有一个关于这个国家医疗保健的远景。我相信，在一天结束时当我们来衡量我们的卫生保健，标准不是被治好的疾病，而是被预防的疾病。标准不是我们的技术有多好，或者我们专家有多专业，而是我们多么不需要他们。最重要的是，我认为当我们见此的健康保障是，标准不是这个系统是什么，而是我们让它变成什么。
en:I believe that we all have a visionfor healthcare in this country.I believe that at the end of the daywhen we measure our healthcare,it will not be by the diseases cured,but by the diseases prevented.It will not be by the excellence of our technologiesor the sophistication of our specialists,but by how rarely we needed them.And most of all,I believe that when we measure healthcare,it will be, not by what the system was,but by what we chose it to be.
时间：15:59
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：16:00
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：16:10
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：16:12
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
