时间： 0:11
zh-cn:你们要对书呆子好点实际上，我想说如果你生活里还没有个书呆子赶紧找一个我也就是说说而已。科学家和工程师们改变这个世界。我想谈谈一个神奇的地方，叫DARPA（美国国防部高级研究计划局）在那儿科学家和工程师们都喜欢挑战不可能的事情，不惧怕失败。现在，这两个观点联系紧密超乎你的想象，因为当你摆脱了对失败的恐惧，不可能的事情，就突然变成可能。
en:You should be niceto nerds.In fact, I&#39;d go so far as to say,if you don&#39;t already have a nerd in your life,you should get one.I&#39;m just saying.Scientists and engineerschange the world.I&#39;d like to tell youabout a magical place called DARPAwhere scientists and engineersdefy the impossibleand refuse to fear failure.Now these two ideasare connected more than you may realize,because when you remove the fear of failure,impossible thingssuddenly become possible.
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:如果你想知道如何做到，那么，先问自己这样一个问题：如果你知道自己不会失败你会打算做什么？如果你真的问自己这个问题，你会禁不住感到不舒服。我觉得有点不舒服。因为当你这样问的时候，你就开始明白失败的恐惧怎样束缚了你，怎样阻碍了我们追求伟大的事情，生活变得无趣，奇妙的事情不再发生。当然，好事情还是有，但是神奇的事情不再发生了。
en:If you want to know how,ask yourself this question:What would you attempt to doif you knew you could not fail?If you really ask yourselfthis question,you can&#39;t help but feel uncomfortable.I feel a little uncomfortable.Because when you ask it,you begin to understandhow the fear of failure constrains you,how it keeps usfrom attempting great things,and life gets dull,amazing things stop happening.Sure, good things happen,but amazing thingsstop happening.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:现在，我要说明一点，我不是在鼓励失败我在反对惧怕失败。因为不是失败本身束缚了我们。在通往真正新鲜没有人做过的事情的路上总会有失败。我们受到了考验。而考验是我们获得巨大成功的应有条件。克里蒙梭说过：“在我们失败时，生活变有趣了，因为它表明了我们超越了自己。”
en:Now I should be clear,I&#39;m not encouraging failure,I&#39;m discouragingfear of failure.Because it&#39;s not failure itselfthat constrains us.The path to truly new,never-been-done-before thingsalways has failure along the way.We&#39;re tested.And in part, that testing feels an appropriate partof achieving something great.Clemenceau said,&quot;Life gets interesting when we fail,because it&#39;s a signthat we&#39;ve surpassed ourselves.&quot;
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:1895年，开尔文爵士宣称，重过空气的飞行器都是不可能飞起来的。1903年10月，动力学专家普遍认为，一千万年以后人类才能造出能飞的飞机。但是两个月后，12月17日，奥维尔･赖特驾驶第一架飞机飞过了北卡罗来纳州的一个沙滩。这次飞行持续了12秒钟行程为120英尺。那是1903年。
en:In 1895,Lord Kelvin declaredthat heavier-than-air flying machineswere impossible.In October of 1903,the prevailing opinionof expert aerodynamicistswas that maybe in 10 million yearswe could build an aircraft that would fly.And two months later on December 17th,Orville Wright powered the first airplaneacross a beach in North Carolina.The flight lasted 12 secondsand covered 120 feet.That was 1903.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:一年后，又一个不可能宣言开始了。斐迪南･福煦，法国军队中一位将军，他被人们赞誉具有最原始的和微妙的思想之一，他说：“飞机是个好玩的玩具，但是毫无军用价值。”40年后，空气动力学专家创造了“跨音速（transonic）”这个术语。他们争论这个术语应该用一个S，还是两个S，你也明白，实际上他们是对该飞机体系有疑问，我们能否飞得比音速还快那时还未得到解答。1947年，那时还没有风洞实验数据，只有0.85马赫这个数据。然而，1947年10月14日，星期二，查克·雅戈尔爬进他的贝尔X-1号的座舱他飞向了未知的可能性他不停地飞，最终，他成为了第一个超音速飞行的飞行员。八个阿特拉斯火箭中有六个爆炸在发射台上。在11次彻底任务失败后，我们看到了首张宇宙图像。而在那个首次飞行上，我们获得了比所有U-2任务加起来还要多的数据。失败了很多次才最终取得成功。
en:One year later,the next declarations of impossibilities began.Ferdinand Foch, a French army generalcredited with having one of the most original and subtle mindsin the French army,said, &quot;Airplanes are interesting toys,but of no military value.&quot;40 years later,aero experts coined the term transonic.They debated, should it have one S or two?You see, they were having trouble in this flight regime,and it wasn&#39;t at all clearthat we could fly faster than the speed of sound.In 1947,there was no wind tunnel databeyond Mach 0.85.And yet,on Tuesday, October 14th, 1947,Chuck Yeager climbed into the cockpitof his Bell X-1and he flewtowards an unknown possibility,and in so doing,he became the first pilotto fly faster than the speed of sound.Six of eight Atlas rocketsblew up on the pad.After 11 complete mission failures,we got our first images from space.And on that first flightwe got more datathan in all U-2 missions combined.It took a lot of failuresto get there.
时间： 4:39
zh-cn:自从我们飞上天空后，我们就想飞得更快更远。为此目的，我们应该相信不可能的事情。并且我们应该反对惧怕失败。这个观点现在依然正确。今天，我们谈的不是跨音速飞行，甚至超音速飞行，我们谈的是特超音速飞行——不是2马赫或者3马赫，而是20马赫。在20马赫的速度下，我们可以在11分钟20秒内从纽约飞到长滩。在这个速度下，机翼表面温度是钢水的温度——华氏3,500度——就像一个高炉一样。在我们飞行时，我们实质上是在燃烧机翼。而我们正在这样飞，或者在尝试这样飞。
en:Since we took to the sky,we have wanted to flyfaster and farther.And to do so,we&#39;ve had to believe in impossible things.And we&#39;ve had to refuseto fear failure.That&#39;s still true today.Today, we don&#39;t talk about flying transonically,or even supersonically,we talk about flying hypersonically —not Mach 2 or Mach 3, Mach 20.At Mach 20,we can fly from New York to Long Beachin 11 minutes and 20 seconds.At that speed,the surface of the airfoilis the temperature of molten steel —3,500 degrees Fahrenheit —like a blast furnace.We are essentially burning the airfoilas we fly it.And we are flying it,or trying to.
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:DARPA的特超音速测试飞机是前所未有的人类制造的最快的机动飞机。这架飞机提升到了近太空的位置在米诺陶4火箭上空飞行。但是米诺陶4火箭的推力太强大为了减缓其推力我们得让火箭在部分运行轨迹以89度攻击角来运行。这对于火箭来说，不是一种自然的行为。第三次发射，火箭上有一个摄像机。我们称之为火箭摄像机。用于拍摄特超音速滑翔机。这是一段来自首次飞行的真实录像。我们稍稍改动了纵横比来遮掩滑翔机的样子但这正是从火箭发射的第三阶段上看到的无人操纵滑翔机的样子它冲进大气层，返回地球。
en:DARPA&#39;s hypersonic test vehicleis the fastest maneuvering aircraftever built.It&#39;s boosted to near-spaceatop a Minotaur IV rocket.Now the Minotaur IV has too much impulse,so we have to bleed it offby flying the rocketat an 89 degree angle of attackfor portions of the trajectory.That&#39;s an unnatural actfor a rocket.The third stage has a camera.We call it rocketcam.And it&#39;s pointedat the hypersonic glider.This is the actual rocketcam footagefrom flight one.Now to conceal the shape, we changed the aspect ratio a little bit.But this is what it looks likefrom the third stage of the rocketlooking at the unmanned glideras it heads into the atmosphereback towards Earth.
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:我们飞了两次头一次没有对滑翔机操控但我们也收集了比过去30年间地面测试总和还多的数据。第二次飞行是历时3分钟的全程操控，空气动力飞行的速度是20马赫。我们还要再飞一次因为神奇的前人从未尝试过的事物促使我们飞行你飞不了20马赫除非你继续飞。虽然速度很重要，操纵性也同样不可忽视
en:We&#39;ve flown twice.In the first flight,no aerodynamic control of the vehicle.But we collected more hypersonic flight datathan in 30 yearsof ground-based testing combined.And in the second flight,three minutes of fully-controlled,aerodynamic flightat Mach 20.We must fly again,because amazing, never-been-done-before thingsrequire that you fly.You can&#39;t learn to fly at Mach 20unless you fly.And while there&#39;s no substitute for speed,maneuverability is a very close second.
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:如果20马赫的滑翔机花11分钟20秒从纽约飞到长滩，那么，一只蜂鸟大概要几天。你知道，蜂鸟不是特超音速但是操纵性很好事实上，蜂鸟是唯一能后退飞行的鸟它能飞上飞下向前飞，向后飞甚至倒过来飞所以，如果我们想在这个房间里或者人类无法到达的地方飞行我们就需要飞机体积小，操作性强，方可达到此要求。
en:If a Mach 20 glider takes 11 minutes and 20 secondsto get from New York to Long Beach,a hummingbird would take,well, days.You see, hummingbirds are not hypersonic,but they are maneuverable.In fact, the hummingbird is the only birdthat can fly backwards.It can fly up, down,forwards, backwards,even upside-down.And so if we wanted to fly in this roomor places where humans can&#39;t go,we&#39;d need an aircraftsmall enough and maneuverable enoughto do so.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:这是个蜂鸟无人驾驶飞机它能向各个方向飞行甚至向后飞它能悬停和旋转。这个原型机配有一个视频摄像头它比一节AA电池还轻还不用吃花蜜2008年它破天荒地飞了20秒一年后是2分钟然后是6分钟最终飞了11分钟很多原型机都摔烂了——很多但是无法学会象蜂鸟一样飞除非不停地学习飞行（掌声）很美妙，是吧哇非常棒马特是首位蜂鸟飞行员（掌声）
en:This is a hummingbird drone.It can fly in all directions,even backwards.It can hover and rotate.This prototype aircraftis equipped with a video camera.It weighs less than one AA battery.It does not eat nectar.In 2008,it flew for a whopping 20 seconds,a year later, two minutes,then six,eventually 11.Many prototypes crashed — many.But there&#39;s no wayto learn to fly like a hummingbirdunless you fly.(Applause)It&#39;s beautiful, isn&#39;t it.Wow.It&#39;s great.Matt is the first ever hummingbird pilot.(Applause)
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:失败是创造美妙新事物的必经之路我们不能害怕失败创造神奇的新事物——像机器人能像狗一样平稳地在崎岖的地形，甚至冰面上行走；象猎豹一样奔跑的机器人或者像人一样爬楼梯的略带趔趄的机器人或者，蜘蛛人有一天将变成壁虎人壁虎能挂住整个身体只用一个脚趾头壁虎脚趾上一平方毫米有一万四千个毛发状结构叫刚毛它们帮助壁虎抓住物体表面采用分子间作用力
en:Failure is part of creatingnew and amazing things.We cannot both fear failureand make amazing new things —like a robotwith the stability of a dog on rough terrain,or maybe even ice;a robot that can run like a cheetah,or climb stairs like a humanwith the occasional clumsiness of a human.Or perhaps, Spider Manwill one day be Gecko Man.A gecko can supportits entire body weightwith one toe.One square millimeter of a gecko&#39;s footpadhas 14,000 hair-like structurescalled setae.They are used to help it grip to surfacesusing intermolecular forces.
时间：10:16
zh-cn:今天我们能够造出模仿壁虎脚趾毛发的结构结果是，一个四乘四英尺的人造奈米壁虎胶粘剂能够承载静态负荷660磅。这足以把一台42英尺的等离子电视机贴在墙上一个钉子都不要。这就是所谓魔术贴，对不对？
en:Today we can manufacture structuresthat mimic the hairs of a gecko&#39;s foot.The result,a four-by-four-inchartificial nano-gecko adhesive.can support a static loadof 660 pounds.That&#39;s enough to sticksix 42-inch plasma TV&#39;s to your wall,no nails.So much for Velcro, right?
时间：10:44
zh-cn:不光是被动式结构整个机器也已经造出来了这就是个红蜘蛛只有一毫米长但在微型机器旁它看上去跟哥斯拉怪兽一样大在哥斯拉红蜘蛛怪兽世界里我们可造出上百万个镜子每个镜子的直径只有人类毛发直径的1/5,每秒以成千上万次的频率移动来创造出大型的屏幕显示这样，我们就能观看到高清电影比如《哥斯拉》
en:And it&#39;s not just passive structures,it&#39;s entire machines.This is a spider mite.It&#39;s one millimeter long,but it looks like Godzillanext to these micromachines.In the world of Godzilla spider mites,we can make millions of mirrors,each one-fifth the diameterof a human hair,moving at hundreds of thousands of times per secondto make large screen displays,so that we can watch movies like &quot;Godzilla&quot;in high-def.
时间：11:20
zh-cn:而且，如果我们能制造那种尺寸的机器那么像埃菲尔铁塔一样微型桁架结构？如今我们制造比发泡胶还轻的金属很轻能架在一个蒲公英蓬蓬上轻轻一吹便吹走了——很轻你可以制造一辆两个人就能抬起来的轿车但很强大它具备越野车的耐撞性。
en:And if we can build machinesat that scale,what about Eiffel Tower-like trussesat the microscale?Today we are making metalsthat are lighter than Styrofoam,so lightthey can sit atop a dandelion puffand be blown awaywith a wisp of air —so lightthat you can make a car that two people can lift,but so strongthat it has the crash-worthiness of an SUV.
时间：11:52
zh-cn:我们从最小的一缕空气谈到大自然风暴的强大力量。全球每秒会产生44次闪电。每一道闪电都能把空气加热到44,000华氏度——比太阳表面还热。我们能不能利用这些电磁脉冲作为信标呢一个强大传输器移动网络中的信标呢？实验表明闪电能成为下一代GPS（全球定位系统）
en:From the smallest wisp of airto the powerful forces of nature&#39;s storms.There are 44 lightning strikes per secondaround the globe.Each lightning bolt heats the airto 44,000 degrees Fahrenheit —hotter than the surface of the Sun.What if we could usethese electromagnetic pulsesas beacons,beacons in a moving networkof powerful transmitters?Experiments suggestthat lightning could be the next GPS.
时间：12:30
zh-cn:电脉冲在我们的大脑里形成思想。蒂姆在他的大脑表面上，用一个网格，大拇指大小，有32个电极，他通过他的思想控制一个高级的义肢而他的思想使他联系到了凯蒂。这是人类首次用思想单独控制机器人。这也是七年来蒂姆第一次与凯蒂握手。这一刻对蒂姆和凯蒂来说都非同寻常的这个绿色粘质也许有一天会对你很重要这个绿色粘质也许是能救你性命的疫苗它是用烟草植物制作的。烟草能在短短几周而不是几个月内制成数百万剂疫苗而且这大概是有史以来烟草第一次被用于健康用途
en:Electrical pulses form the thoughts in our brains.Using a grid the size of your thumb,with 32 electrodeson the surface of his brain,Tim uses his thoughtsto control an advanced prosthetic arm.And his thoughtsmade him reach for Katie.This is the first timea human has controlled a robotwith thought alone.And it is the first timethat Tim has held Katie&#39;s handin seven years.That moment matteredto Tim and Katie,and this green goomay someday matter to you.This green goois perhaps the vaccine that could save your life.It was made in tobacco plants.Tobacco plantscan make millions of doses of vaccinein weeks instead of months,and it might just bethe first healthy use of tobacco ever.
时间：13:38
zh-cn:如果你觉得烟草能使人健康有些牵强那么，对游戏玩家解决了专家都束手无策的问题，你有什么想法呢？去年九月份蛋白质折叠电子游戏（Foldit）的玩家就解决了逆转录病毒蛋白酶的三维结构这对猕猴身上艾滋病毒的治疗作出了贡献。现在，理解这个结构对治疗手段的发展非常重要。15年来，科学界都无法解决这个问题。而蛋白质折叠电子游戏（Foldit）的玩家15天就搞定了。现在，他们能共同协作来解决这个问题。他们能够协作是因为互联网把他们联结起来。而其他一样通过互联网联系的很多人把互联网当作民主的武器。他们在一起改变了他们国家的命运。
en:And if it seems far-fetchedthat tobacco plants could make people healthy,what about gamers that could solve problemsthat experts can&#39;t solve?Last September,the gamers of Folditsolved the three-dimensional structureof the retroviral proteasethat contributes to AIDS in rhesus monkeys.Now understanding this structureis very important for developing treatments.For 15 years,it was unsolvedin the scientific community.The gamers of Folditsolved it in 15 days.Now they were able to do soby working together.They were able to work togetherbecause they&#39;re connected by the Internet.And others, also connected to the Internet,used it as an instrument of democracy.And togetherthey changed the fate of their nation.
时间：14:36
zh-cn:互联网是20亿人或者世界30％的人口的家园。它使我们能以个人名义发言，并被聆听。它使我们放大群体的声音和力量。但它也是出身卑微的。1969年，互联网还只是痴人说梦，纸上谈兵。然后在1969年10月29日，第一个数据包交换信息从加州大学洛杉矶分校传到斯坦福研究所。Login的头两个字母是使其成功发送的全部原因——字母L和O——接着缓冲器溢出使系统崩溃了。（笑声）两个字母L和O如今成为全球力量。
en:The Internet is home to two billion people,or 30 percent of the world&#39;s population.It allows us to contributeand to be heardas individuals.It allows us to amplifyour voices and our poweras a group.But it too had humble beginnings.In 1969, the internet was but a dream,a few sketches on a piece of paper.And then on October 29th,the first packet-switched message was sentfrom UCLA to SRI.The first two letters of the word &quot;Login,&quot;that&#39;s all that made it through —an L and an O —and then a buffer overflow crashed the system.(Laughter)Two letters,an L and an O,now a worldwide force.
时间：15:34
zh-cn:那么，在那个叫做DARPA的神奇地方里的科学家和工程师都是什么样的人？他们都是书呆子还是我们当中的英雄。他们在科学的边缘以及要求极高的条件下挑战固有的观念。他们提醒我们，如果我们与不可能斗争我们不害怕失败我们就能改变世界。他们让我们知道我们每个人都有书呆子的力量。有时候我们就是忘了。
en:So who are these scientists and engineersat a magical place called DARPA?They are nerds,and they are heroes among us.They challenge existing perspectivesat the edges of scienceand under the most demanding of conditions.They remind usthat we can change the worldif we defy the impossibleand we refuse to fear failure.They remind usthat we all have nerd power.Sometimes we just forget.
时间：16:13
zh-cn:你知道，你曾经不怕失败，你是个出色的艺术家或舞蹈家你会唱歌，你擅长数学你会建造东西，你是个宇航员一个探险者，雅克·库斯托你比任何人都跳得高，跑得快踢得远。你相信不可能的事情并且你无所畏惧。你已经切切实实地完全与你内心世界的超人联系在一起了。科学家和工程师确实能改变世界。你也可以。你生来就可以。所以向前走，问自己，你打算做什么如果你知道你不会失败？
en:You see, there was a timewhen you weren&#39;t afraid of failure,when you were a great artist or a great dancerand you could sing, you were good at math,you could build things, you were an astronaut,an adventurer, Jacques Cousteau,you could jump higher, run faster,kick harder than anyone.You believed in impossible thingsand you were fearless.You were totally and completely in touchwith your inner superhero.Scientists and engineerscan indeed change the world.So can you.You were born to.So go ahead,ask yourself,what would you attempt to doif you knew you could not fail?
时间：17:03
zh-cn:现在，我想说这并不容易。坚持这种想法很难，真的很难。我想，在某种程度上我觉得这是很困难的。怀疑和恐惧总是趁虚而入我们想到别人，想到比我们更聪明的人比我们更有能力的人，比我们拥有更多的解决问题的资源的人。但实际上没有任何别的人；只有你。而且如果我们幸运的话，在那样动摇的时刻，有人会解决那样的疑虑和恐惧，拿起我们的手，对我们说“让我来帮助你相信。”
en:Now I want to say,this is not easy.It&#39;s hard to hold onto this feeling,really hard.I guess in some way,I sort of believe it&#39;s supposed to be hard.Doubt and fear always creep in.We think someone else, someone smarter than us,someone more capable,someone with more resources will solve that problem.But there isn&#39;t anyone else;there&#39;s just you.And if we&#39;re lucky,in that moment,someone steps into that doubt and fear,takes a hand and says,&quot;Let me help you believe.&quot;
时间：17:45
zh-cn:詹森･哈利就为我做了这样的事情。詹森从2010年3月18日开始在DARPA供职。他是我们运输组的。我几乎每天都会碰到詹森，有时一天两次。很多时候，他看到我生活的起伏，成功和失败。在我非常难过的一天里，詹森坐下来给我写了封邮件。他在鼓励我，但态度很果断。当他点击发送时，他大概没有意识到这封邮件对我产生的影响。它对我意义非凡。在那一刻还有今天当我怀疑时，当我感到害怕时，当我需要重新恢复，那个信念时，我想起他的话他的话是如此有力。
en:Jason Harley did that for me.Jason started at DARPAon March 18th, 2010.He was with our transportation team.I saw Jason nearly every day,sometimes twice a day.And more so than most,he saw the highs and the lows,the celebrations and the disappointments.And on one particularly dark day for me,Jason sat downand he wrote an email.He was encouraging,but firm.And when he hit send,he probably didn&#39;t realize what a difference it would make.It mattered to me.In that momentand still todaywhen I doubt,when I feel afraid,when I need to reconnectwith that feeling,I remember his words,they were so powerful.
时间：18:49
zh-cn:文本：“你有足够的时间铸造斗篷飞回属于你的天空。”
en:Text: &quot;There is only time enough to iron your capeand back to the skies for you.&quot;
时间：18:56
zh-cn:♫超人，超人♫♫超人，超人♫♫超人，超人♫♫超人，超人♫♫超人，超人♫
en:♫ Superhero, superhero. ♫♫ Superhero, superhero. ♫♫ Superhero, superhero. ♫♫ Superhero, superhero. ♫♫ Superhero, superhero. ♫
时间：19:14
zh-cn:声音：因为这就是超人要做的事
en:Voice: Because that&#39;s what being a superhero is all about.
时间：19:20
zh-cn:RD：“你有足够的时间铸造斗篷飞回属于你的天空。”记住，对书呆子好点儿（掌声）谢谢
en:RD: &quot;There is only time enoughto iron your capeand back to the skies for you.&quot;And remember,be nice to nerds.(Applause)Thank you. Thank you.
时间：19:50
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：19:52
zh-cn:克里斯･安德森：瑞姬娜，谢谢。我有几个问题。那么，你的滑翔机，那个20马赫的滑翔机，第一架，无操控，我想是在太平洋的某个地方消失了吧。
en:Chris Anderson: Regina, thank you.I have a couple of questions.So that glider of yours,the Mach 20 glider,the first one, no control, it ended up in the Pacific I think somewhere.
时间：20:03
zh-cn:RD：没错。是这样。（CA：那第二架呢？）没错，第二架也掉进太平洋了（CA：但这次是在操控下？）我们没把它飞进太平洋。不，飞行轨道有多个部分。如果真的以那个速度飞行，要求会非常高。所以在第二次飞行中在坠机前我们做到了3分钟对滑翔机的全气动控制。
en:RD: Yeah, yeah. It did. (CA: What happened on that second flight?)Yeah, it also went into the Pacific. (CA: But this time under control?)We didn&#39;t fly it into the Pacific.No, there are multiple portions of the trajectorythat are demandingin terms of really flying at that speed.And so in the second flight,we were able to get three minutesof fully aerodynamic control of the vehicle before we lost it.
时间：20:30
zh-cn:CA：那我估计你们还没打算在近期提供从纽约到长滩的乘客服务。
en:CA: I imagine you&#39;re not planning to open up to passenger servicefrom New York to Long Beach anytime soon.
时间：20:35
zh-cn:RD：可能会太暖和。
en:RD: It might be a little warm.
时间：20:38
zh-cn:CA：你能描述一下那个滑翔机的用途？
en:CA: What do you picture that glider being used for?
时间：20:41
zh-cn:RD：呃，我们的责任是开发这种滑翔机的技术。最终用途将由军队决定目前这个滑翔机的用途这项技术的用途是能在60分钟内抵达世界任何一个地方。
en:RD: Well our responsibilityis to develop the technology for this.How it&#39;s ultimately usedwill be determined by the military.Now the purpose of the vehicle though,the purpose of the technology,is to be able to reach anywhere in the worldin less than 60 minutes.
时间：20:58
zh-cn:CA：并搭载一个只有几磅多的东西？（RD：是的。）那么可能会运载什么？
en:CA: And to carry a payloadof more than a few pounds? (RD: Yeah.)Like what&#39;s the payload it could carry?
时间：21:06
zh-cn:RD：呃，我想我们还不知道，对吧我们首先得让它飞起来。
en:RD: Well I don&#39;t think we ultimately know what it will be, right.We&#39;ve got to fly it first.
时间：21:11
zh-cn:CA：但不会只是个摄像机吧？
en:CA: But not necessarily just a camera?
时间：21:13
zh-cn:RD：不，不一定只是个摄像机。
en:RD: No, not necessarily just a camera.
时间：21:17
zh-cn:CA：太棒了蜂鸟？
en:CA: It&#39;s amazing.The hummingbird?
时间：21:22
zh-cn:RD：嗯？
en:RD: Yeah?
时间：21:24
zh-cn:CA：我很好奇，你在描述飞行时，以一架试图拍打机翼却不成功的飞机开头，顺序很漂亮。从那拍动翅膀的飞机失败后这种飞机就没有再问世。为什么我们会认为，现在这是个进行生态模拟的时代去模拟蜂鸟？这对一个可操纵的小型飞行物来说不是个很昂贵的方案？
en:CA: I&#39;m curious, you started your beautiful sequence on flightwith a plane kind of trying to flap its wingsand failing horribly,and there haven&#39;t been that many planes built sincethat flap wings.Why did we think that this was the time to go biomimicryand copy a hummingbird?Isn&#39;t that a very expensive solutionfor a small maneuverable flying object?
时间：21:48
zh-cn:RD：所以，我认为，一方面，我们想知道是否有可能做到而且你不得多次重温这些问题。AeroVironmen公司t的人员尝试了三百多种不同的机翼设计12种不同形式的航空电子设备。他们废了10个完整的原型机才最终制作出能真的飞起来的飞机。但是如果一个飞行器看起来像一个你能认出来的物体那么这是很有趣的。所以我们常常讨论隐形作为一种避开各种感测的途径但是当事物看起来很自然时，你也就看不到它们了
en:RD: So I mean, in part,we wondered if it was possible to do it.And you have to revisit these questionsover time.The folks at AeroVironmenttried 300 or more different wing designs,12 different forms of the avionics.It took them 10 full prototypesto get something that would actually fly.But there&#39;s something really interestingabout a flying machinethat looks like something you&#39;d recognize.So we often talk about stealthas a means for avoiding any type of sensing,but when things looks just natural,you also don&#39;t see them.
时间：22:26
zh-cn:CA：啊，所以不一定只是性能外形也是其中的元素 （RD：当然。）确实如此，”看，一只可爱的蜂鸟飞进了我的总部。”（笑声）因为我想，虽然我们现在怀着敬畏的心情看着它但我相信肯定有人在想科技日新月异什么时候就有疯狂的极客拿着个小摇控器让蜂鸟通过白宫的窗户飞进去？我的意思是，你有没有担心潘多拉盒子的问题？
en:CA: Ah. So it&#39;s not necessarily just the performance.It&#39;s partly the look. (RD: Sure.)It&#39;s actually, &quot;Look at that cute hummingbirdflying into my headquarters.&quot;(Laughter)Because I think, as well as the awe of looking at that,I&#39;m sure some people here are thinking,technology catches up so quick,how long is itbefore some crazed geek with a little remote controlflies one through a window of the White House?I mean, do you worry about the Pandora&#39;s box issue here?
时间：22:55
zh-cn:RD：呃，我想，我们的唯一任务是创造和预防策略性的突袭。这是我们的工作。如果我们做的事情不能同时让人们激动和不舒服，那么我们的工作就没有意义。这仅是我们工作的性质现在，我们的责任是不断地推进技术当然我们也得留意该技术的发展和最终用途并对其负责，但是我们不能干脆闭上眼睛，假装技术不在进步；其实，技术在进步着。
en:RD: Well look, our singular missionis the creation and prevention of strategic surprise.That&#39;s what we do.It would be inconceivablefor us to do that workif we didn&#39;t make people excited and uncomfortable with the things that we doat the same time.It&#39;s just the nature of what we do.Now our responsibilityis to push that edge.And we have to be, of course, mindful and responsibleof how the technology is developedand ultimately used,but we can&#39;t simply close our eyesand pretend that it isn&#39;t advancing; it&#39;s advancing.
时间：23:34
zh-cn:CA：我的意思是，你是个很激励人的领导者。你鼓励人们踊跃参与发明的伟大壮举，但是从个人层面来说，我想象不了你进行工作的方式。你晚上睡觉时，有时会不会醒来问自己你的团队的聪明才智会不会有不可预期的后果？
en:CA: I mean, you&#39;re clearly a really inspiring leader.And you persuade peopleto go to these great feats of invention,but at a personal level,in a way I can&#39;t imagine doing your job.Do you wake up in the night sometimes,just asking questionsabout the possibly unintended consequencesof your team&#39;s brilliance?
时间：23:54
zh-cn:RD：当然。既然是人都会问过那些问题。
en:RD: Sure.I think you couldn&#39;t be humanif you didn&#39;t ask those questions.
时间：24:01
zh-cn:CA：你怎么回答的呢？
en:CA: How do you answer them?
时间：24:03
zh-cn:RD：呃，我回答不了全部问题，对吧。我觉得我们在不断地学习。我的工作是最令人振奋的工作之一我跟非常优秀的人一起工作那种合作的愉快，随之而来的是强烈的责任感。这样，你一方面获得了可能性的巨大提升以及其意义的巨大严肃性。
en:RD: Well I don&#39;t always have answers for them, right.I think that we learnas time goes on.My job is one of the most exhilarating jobs you could have.I work with some of the most amazing people.And with that exhilaration,comes a really deep senseof responsibility.And so you have on the one handthis tremendous liftof what&#39;s possibleand this tremendous seriousnessof what it means.
时间：24:41
zh-cn:CA：瑞姬娜，他们说，那种工作令人瞠目结舌。谢谢来到TED（RD：谢谢）
en:CA: Regina, that was jaw-dropping, as they say.Thank you so much for coming to TED. (RD: Thank you.)
时间：24:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
