时间： 0:11
zh-cn:加州北部海岸有着一片片雨林——温带雨林——每年降水量超过25400毫米。这就是海岸红杉的领域。它的学名为Sequoia sempervirens。它是地球上最大的生命机体。这个物种可高达116米相当于38层楼的高度。若放在曼哈顿中城，这些巨杉将鹤立其中。没有人知道最老的海岸红杉有多大岁数因为没有人试过钻开他们去数他们的年轮并且这些最古老的树木的中心似乎是空的。但是人们普遍认为最老的红杉有2500岁——几乎跟帕台农神庙一样古老了不过还有人怀疑有比这更古老的红杉。
en:The north coast of California has rainforests —temperate rainforests — where it can rain more than 100 inches a year.This is the realm of the Coast Redwood tree.Its species name is Sequoia sempervirens.Sequoia sempervirens is the tallest living organism on Earth.The range of the species goes up to as much as 380 feet tall.That&#39;s 38 stories tall.These are trees that would stand out in midtown Manhattan.Nobody knows how old the oldest living Coast Redwoods arebecause nobody has ever drilled into any of themto count their annual growth rings, and, in any case,the centers of the oldest individuals appear to be hollow.But it&#39;s believed that the oldest living Redwoodsare perhaps 2,500 years old — roughly the age of the Parthenon —although it&#39;s also suspected that there may be individual treesthat are older than that.
时间： 1:10
zh-cn:你可以看到海岸红杉的领域，就在红色的区域里。这个物种最巨型的个体，他们之中的“无畏战舰”，就生活在加州北部海岸，那里雨量十分充沛。在近代历史时期，96%的海岸红杉林木被砍伐，特别是在70年代到90年代早期发生的严重的森林砍伐，毁灭性的森林开垦活动中。尽管如此，还是有4%的原始红杉雨林保留了下来它们未受人类文明践踏，而且现在被保护了起来——全面地被保护起来它们被保护于沿着加州北海岸珠连起来的一些小公园里，包括红杉国家公园。但奇怪的是，剩下的红杉雨林直到今天还未被充分开发。在红杉雨林里行走十分困难，困难得令人难以置信时至今日，新的红杉仍不断地被发现包括发现于2006夏的世界最高之树——亥帕龙神（Hyperion,希腊神话中一巨人之名），世界上最高的树。
en:You can see the range of the Coast Redwoods. It&#39;s here, in red.The largest individuals of this species,the dreadnoughts of their kind, live just on the north coast of California,where the rain is really intense.In recent historic times, about 96 percent of the Coast Redwood forestwas cut down, especially in a series of bursts of intense liquidation logging,clear-cutting that took place in the 1970s through the early 1990s.Even so, about four percent of the primeval Redwood rainforest remains intact,wild and now protected — entirely protected —in a chain of small parks strung out like pearlsalong the north coast of California, including Redwood National Park.But curiously, Redwood rainforests, the fragments that we have left,to this day remain under-explored.Redwood rainforest is incredibly difficult to move through,and even today, individual trees are being discoveredthat have never been seen before, including, in the summer of 2006,Hyperion, the world&#39;s tallest tree.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:我想做一个小小的想象实验让你们去想象一下，一棵红杉作为一个生命体究竟是什么东西克里斯，你能站到舞台上来么？我有一把卷尺是从TED借来的。克里斯，拿着卷尺的头好么?我们将要向你们展示一棵大型红杉在我们胸部高度位置的直径大小很遗憾，这卷尺不够长——只有7.6米长。克里斯，你能向那边伸出你的手臂么？就这样，好了。大概就是这么多，9.1米左右，就是一颗大型红杉的直径。现在，然你的想象力向天空延伸想象一下这棵树，耸立至红杉林的99米高，32层楼的高度——这就是一棵红杉长期逐渐成长至天际的体型
en:I&#39;m going to do a little Gedanken experiment.I&#39;m going to ask you to imagine what a Redwood really is as a living organism.And, Chris, if I could have you up here? I have a tape measure.It&#39;s a kind loaner from TED.And Chris, if you could take the end of that tape measure?We&#39;re going to show you what the diameterat breast height of a big Redwood is.Unfortunately, this tape isn&#39;t long enough — it&#39;s only a 25-foot tape.Chris, could you extend your arm out that way? There we go. OK.And maybe about here, about 30 feet, is the diameter of a big Redwood.Now, let your imagination go upward into space.Think about this tree, rising upward into Redwood space, 325 feet,32 stories, an individual living organism articulating its formsupward into space over long periods of time.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:红杉这种植物似乎存在于另一种时间体系中不是人类的时间标准，而我们更愿意称其为“红杉时间”“红杉时间”以比人类时间更宏伟的节奏流逝着对我们来说，当我们看着一棵红杉树，它似乎一动不动但实际上它不停地在运动向上生长，展现着自己在几千年的红杉时间之中填满了整个红杉树林。将这颗小种子播种下去，等待两千年，然后就有了这个：“失落的君王”。它坐落于北部海岸的“泰坦丛林”，1998年我们发现了它。另外，当你看着一棵红杉树的树桩时，你所看到的不是一个完整的生物。你会像一只老鼠，看着一只大象的腿，而这个生物的大部分就在你头顶上，你却无法看到。
en:The Redwood species seems to exist in another kind of time:not human time, but what we might call Redwood time.Redwood time moves at a more stately pace than human time.To us, when we look at a Redwood tree, it seems to be motionless and still,and yet Redwoods are constantly in motion,moving upward into space, articulating themselvesand filling Redwood space over Redwood time, over thousands of years.Plant this small seed, wait 2,000 years, and you get this:the Lost Monarch.It dwells in the Grove of Titans on the north coast,and was discovered in 1998.And yet, when you look at the base of a Redwood tree,you&#39;re not seeing the organism.You&#39;re like a mouse looking at the foot of an elephant,and most of the organism is overhead, unseen.
时间： 4:28
zh-cn:我变得饶有兴致，并记录了一对夫妇在这里的生活。史蒂夫·西莱特 和 马莉·安东尼 是 主要的红杉林树冠探险者。他们是世界级的运动员，他们还是世界级的森林生态科学家。当史蒂夫还是一个19岁的里德大学的学生时，就听说过红杉林的树冠层被称为一个红杉沙漠。换句话说，在那个时候，人们相信在那里除了红杉树枝外什么都没有。之后他与他的一个朋友毅然试着徒手攀爬一棵红杉而没有用任何绳子或装备，想看一下在上面究竟有什么。他爬上了这棵巨型红杉旁的一棵小树，然后腾空一跃，用双手抓住了一根树枝，然后悬挂在那，就像抓住秋千的横杠一样。接着，从那里他直接从树皮爬了上去直到他到了树顶。
en:I became very interested, and I wrote about a couple.Steve Sillett and Marie Antoine are the principal explorersof the Redwood forest canopy. They&#39;re world-class athletes,and they also are world-class forest ecology scientists.Steve Sillett, when he was a 19-year-old college studentat Reed College, had heard that the Redwood forest canopyis considered to be a so-called Redwood desert.That is to say, at that time it was believedthat there was nothing up there except the branches of Redwood trees.And with a friend of his, he took it upon himself to free-climb a Redwoodwithout ropes or any equipment to see what was up there.He climbed up a small tree next to this giant Redwood,and then he leaped through space and grabbed a branch with his hands,and ended up hanging, like catching a bar of a trapeze.And then, from there, he climbed directly up the barkuntil he got to the top of the tree.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:他的朋友玛沃德·查尔斯跟在他后面。两个人都没有注意到，一个保龄球大小的黄蜂巢就挂在史蒂夫跳过去的那根树枝上。当玛沃德跳过去的时候，他立刻就被黄蜂包围了黄蜂叮咬他的脸跟眼睛。他差点就放手了。如果从上面高达23米的地方摔下来，他肯定就摔死了。但他们成功地到了顶，而他们看到的不是一个红杉沙漠，而是一个失落的世界——一个空中三围迷宫，里面充满了不为人知的生命。我一直都在研究其它的课题：传染病的诞生它们源于地球的自然生态系统，跨越种族，传染给人类。
en:His friend, a guy named Marwood Harris, was following behind.Neither one of them had noticed that there wasa Yellow Jacket wasp&#39;s nest the size of a bowling ballhanging from the branch that Steve had jumped into.And when Marwood made the jump, he was covered with waspsstinging him in the face and eyes. He nearly let go.He would have fallen to his death, being 75 feet above the ground.But they made it to the top, and what they foundwas not a Redwood desert, but a lost world —a kind of three-dimensional labyrinth in the air, filled with unknown life.Now, I had been working on other topics:the emergence of infectious diseases,which come out of the natural ecosystems of the Earth,make a trans-species jump, and get into humans.
时间： 6:08
zh-cn:我写过三本关于此课题的书之后，觉得在某种程度上有点过火了。我和我妻子很喜欢我们的孩子然后我开始和我的孩子们爬树，以此和他们一起做些事，我们采用了被称为树艺师的爬树技巧，还有绳子。你要用绳子帮你爬到树冠。难以置信地，孩子们十分擅长爬树。那是我的儿子奥利弗。他们似乎一点也不畏高——不像人类那样畏高。
en:After three books on this, it got to be a bit much, in a way.My wife and I adore our children.And I began climbing trees with my kids as just something to do with them,using the so-called arborist climbing technique,with ropes. You use ropes to get yourself up into the crown of a tree.Children are incredibly adept at climbing trees.That&#39;s my son, Oliver.They don&#39;t seem to suffer from the same fear of heights that humans do.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:如果个体发生机理会再现种系发生的话，那么孩子们就有点接近我们生活在树上的灵长类祖先了。在我所知道的所有灵长类动物中，似乎只有人类是畏高的。其他所有的灵长动物在它们害怕的时候，就爬上一棵树，在那里他们感到很安全。我们在树林里或树舟上宿营过夜，这是我女儿罗拉，那时她15岁，正从树舟往外看。顺便提一下，她身上帮着绳子，所以她不会掉下去。在清晨向外望去，听着鸟儿的歌唱全方位地围绕着我们。有时在夜晚一些鼯鼠会造访我们，他们似乎不认得人类因为他们从来没有在树冠上面见过人类。我们还练习了一些高级技巧，如“天空行走”你可以在空中从一棵树走到另一棵树，像蜘蛛侠一样。这变成了我的一个写作计划。
en:If ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, then childrenare somewhat closer to our roots as primates in the arboreal forest.Humans appear to be the only primates that I know ofthat are afraid of heights.All other primates, when they&#39;re scared,they run up a tree, where they feel safe.We camped overnight in the trees, in tree boats.This is my daughter Laura, then 15, looking out of a tree boat.She&#39;s, by the way, tied in with a rope so she can&#39;t fall.Looking out of a tree boat in the morning and hearing birdsongcoming in three dimensions around us.We had been visited in the night by flying squirrels,who don&#39;t seem to recognize humans for what they arebecause they&#39;ve never seen them in the canopy before.And we practiced advanced techniques like sky-walking,where you can move from tree to tree through space,rather like Spiderman.It became a writing project.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:当史蒂夫爬上一棵大红杉之后，他向外射出一箭，箭上绑着鱼线，之后鱼线缠住了树上的一根树枝，然后你可以爬上那根鱼线拖着的绳子，直上30层楼高。有两个人正爬着这棵树——盖亚（Gaia，希腊神话中的大地女神），它被认为是最古老的红杉之一。那是他们两人。他们只到了树身的1/7处，你一定有一丝刺眼的感觉。就在下面有个小人。你会觉得你在爬一堵树墙，然而你却来到了树冠层，那感觉就像穿越一个云层。突然之间，你再也看不见地面了，天空也看不见了，你身处于一个空中三维迷宫里面悬着一丛丛由土壤长出来的蕨类植物，而土里生活着各式各样的生物。
en:When Steve Sillett gets up into a big Redwood, he fires an arrow,which trails a fishing line, which gets over a branch in the tree,and then you ascend up a rope which has been dragged into the tree by the line.You ascend 30 stories.There are two people climbing this tree, Gaya,which is thought to be one of the oldest Redwoods. There they are.They are only one-seventh of the way up that tree.You do feel a sense of exposure.There is a small person right down there on the ground.You feel like you&#39;re climbing a wall of wood.But then you enter the Redwood canopy,and it&#39;s like coming through a layer of clouds.And all of a sudden, you lose sight of the ground,and you also lose sight of the sky,and you&#39;re in a three-dimensional labyrinth in the airfilled with hanging gardens of ferns growing out of soil,which is populated with all kinds of small organisms.
时间： 8:25
zh-cn:这是附生植物，一种长在树上的植物。这些是越橘丛。很多种类的苔藓，还有各种的地衣贴在了树上。当你接近树顶的时候，你觉得你不可能掉下去——实际上，上面寸步难行。你只能像虫子一样在茂密的树枝里慢慢向前蠕动而树枝间充满了在地面上不会出现的生物。这感觉就像潜入一个珊瑚礁，只是你现在是向上走而不是向下潜。这些树会向外伸展，在顶部形成一个平台。玛丽亚坐在其中的一个上。这些大树枝可能有五六百岁了。红杉的顶部生长得很慢。他们还有另外一个特点：一簇簇的越橘丛从红杉顶长出来，我们专门称其为“越橘爆炸头”，当你休息的时候，你可以坐在那，品尝这些浆果。
en:There are epiphytes, plants that grow on trees.These are huckleberry bushes.Many species of mosses, and then all sorts of lichens just plastering the tree.When you get near the top of the tree, you feel like you can&#39;t fall —in fact, it&#39;s difficult to move.You&#39;re worming your way through branches which are crowdedwith living things that don&#39;t occur near the ground.It&#39;s like scuba diving into a coral reef,except you&#39;re going upward instead of downward.And then the trees tend to flare out into platform-like areas at the top.Maria&#39;s sitting on one of them.These limbs could be five to six hundred years old.Redwoods grow very slowly in their tops.They also have a feature: thickets of huckleberry bushesthat grow out of the tops of Redwood treesthat are technically known as huckleberry afros,and you can sit there and snack on the berries while you&#39;re resting.
时间： 9:14
zh-cn:红杉树向外延伸的表面积很巨大因为他们有我们称之为“横向生长”的倾向。红杉是一种不规则的生物。随着他们的枝干向外伸展，这些枝干会爆芽，长成小的红杉树。现在我们看到的是一棵侧苗，它长在名为“克罗诺斯”（Cronus,希腊神话中的时间之神）这棵年长的红杉上。这棵侧木像一个巨型飞拱从这棵树里长出来。这个树垛不到树身的一半。然后它萌发出一片红杉林。这根特别的额外树干在它底座那有一米宽向上伸至46米。它跟任何一株在密西西比河东岸最大的树一样高大，却只是克罗诺斯上的一个小特征而已。
en:Redwoods have an enormous surface area that extends upward into spacebecause they have a propensity to do something called reiteration.A Redwood is a fractal. And as they put out limbs,the limbs burst into small trees, copies of the Redwood.Now, here we see a reiteration in Chronos, one of the older Redwoods.This reiteration is a huge flying buttressthat comes out the tree itself.This buttress is less than halfway up the tree.And then it bursts into a forest of Redwoods.This particular extra trunk is a meter across at the baseand extends upward for 150 feet.It&#39;s as big as any of the biggest trees east of the Mississippi River,and yet it&#39;s only a minor feature on Chronos.
时间：10:02
zh-cn:这张是名为“伊卢瓦塔”（Illuvatar,托尔金魔戒三部曲中的众生之父）的红杉其树冠结构的三维图，由史蒂夫，玛丽·安东尼，以及他们的同事绘制，它能让你更好理解一些。你现在看到的是一个分层发展模式的示意图，它展现了这棵树的树枝是怎样慢慢地长出六层复合树枝结构的，以及树枝怎样从树枝中长出来。我让史蒂夫将一个人放到那里好让大家感受一下它的大小.那个人就在那。他在向我们招手。我曾想问克雷格·文特尔可不可以将一条人工合成的染色体植入人体好让我们能随心所欲地侧生。如果我们能够做到的话，那么我们的手指就可以长成像我们一样的人了，而在他们的手指也会长出很多人，如此下去。又如果我们有红杉般的生理机制，可以说，我们的手就能长出六层的人。如果能够让我们所有的手指上的人们同时向某人挥手的话那将是多么可爱啊。
en:This three-dimensional map of the crown structure of a Redwood named Iluvatar,made by Steve Sillett, Marie Antoine and their colleagues, gives you an idea.What you&#39;re seeing here is a hierarchical schematic developmentof the trunks of this tree as it has elaborated itself over time into six layers of fractal,of trunks springing from trunks springing from trunks.I asked Steve to put a human being in this to give a sense of scale.There&#39;s the person, right there. The person is waving to us.I&#39;ve wanted to ask Craig Venter if it would be possible to inserta synthetic chromosome into a humanso that we could reiterate ourselves if we wanted to.And if we were able to reiterate, then the fingers of our handwould be people who looked like us,and they would have people on their hands and so on.And if we had Redwood-like biology,we would have six layers of people on our hands, as it were.And it would be a lovely thing to be able to wave to someoneand have all our reiterations wave at the same time.
时间：11:11
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:13
zh-cn:重申一下这一点，让我们走近伊路瓦塔。我们现在看到那个黄色的盒子。这张幻觉般的图画向你展现——在这张图画里你看到的所有东西就是伊路瓦塔。这些是千年结构——那些被认为超过1000岁的部分。在这张照片里有四个人——一，二，三，四。我还有一些东西给你们展示一下。这是一个飞拱。红杉向周围空间延伸的时候同时也向自身生长，这个飞拱就是那根小树干长出的一根树枝，它向主干生长，与之糅合。这些飞拱，正如在一座大教堂里一样，强化了树冠也让这些树活得更久。科学家在这些树上做着各种各样的实验。他们将树像重症护理病房的病人一样用铁丝环绕起来。
en:To reiterate the point, let&#39;s go closer into Iluvatar.We&#39;re looking at that yellow box.And this hallucinatory drawing shows you —everything you see in this drawing is Iluvatar.These are millennial structures — portions of the treethat are believed to be more than 1,000 years old.There are four humans in this shot — one, two, three, four.And there&#39;s also something that I want to show you.This is a flying buttress.Redwoods grow back into themselves as they expand into space,and this flying buttress is a limb shot out of that small trunk,going back into the main trunk and fusing with it.Flying buttresses, just as in a cathedral, help strengthen the crown of the treeand help the tree exist longer through time.The scientists are doing all kinds of experiments in these trees.They&#39;ve wired them like patients in an ICU.
时间：12:12
zh-cn:他们发现红杉可以吸收空气中的水分至它们的树干里，很有可能一路送到它们的根部系统。他们还有能力将自己的根放到树内的任何地方。如果红杉有一部分在腐烂，红杉就会将这些根收回体内在它溃坏的同时吸收其营养。如果我们有红杉一般的生理机制，如果我们的手臂有某处坏死了你知道，那么我们就可以，吸收这部分的营养跟水分直至其脱落。树冠的泥土可以有一米厚，离地面几百英尺，里面还有很多生物至今为止都还没有名字。
en:They&#39;re finding out that Redwoods can move moisture out of the airand down into their trunks,possibly all the way into their root systems.They also have the ability to put roots anywhere in the tree itself.If a portion of a Redwood is rotting,the Redwood will send roots into its own formand draw nutrients out of itself as it falls apart.If we had Redwood-like biology, if we got a touch of gangrene in our armthen we could just, you know,extract the nutrients extract the nutrients and the moisture out of it until it fell off.Canopy soil can occur up to a meter deep,hundreds of feet above the ground, and there are organisms in this soilthat have, as yet, no names.
时间：12:52
zh-cn:这是一个还没被命名的桡足类动物。桡足类动物属甲壳纲。这些桡足类是海洋里的一种主要动物，他们也是须鲸的主要食粮。关于他们在离海洋几百英尺高的红杉林树冠的土壤里做着什么或他们是怎么到达那里的，我们完全不知道。有些有趣的理论如果我有时间的话，我会告诉你们的。不过当你走近一棵树并仔细看看，你看到的将越来越复杂。我们现在所看的是盖亚的树顶，它被认为是最古老的红杉。盖亚可能有3000到5000岁，没有人真正知道，不过它的树顶曾经折断过现在它在往内腐烂。
en:This is an unnamed species of copepod. A copepod is a crustacean.These copepods are a major constituent of the oceans,and they are a major part of the diet of grazing baleen whales.What they&#39;re doing in the Redwood forest canopy soilhundreds of feet above the ocean, or how they got there,is completely unknown.There are some interesting theoriesthat, if I had time, I would tell you about.But as you go and you look closer at a tree,what you see is, you see increasing complexity.We&#39;re looking at the very top of Gaya, which is thought to be the oldest Redwood.Gaya may be 3,000 to 5,000 years old,no one really knows, but its top has broken offand it&#39;s been rotting back now.
时间：13:38
zh-cn:这棵像是小型日本花园盆栽的树可能花了700年才形成我们现在看到的复杂结构。当你“看”一棵树时，你需要一副放大镜来真正“看到”一棵巨型树。在这个讲座快要结束的此刻我要向你们展示一些不幸的东西。加拿大铁杉经常被描述为“东方的红杉”。而我们现在正在一个完整的循环之中。20世纪50年代，一种小型生物出现在弗吉尼亚州的里士满，它们被称作铁杉球蚜。它们越过一些亚洲其它的物种，之前它们生活在亚洲的铁杉树上。当它们进驻它们新的宿主——加拿大铁杉，它们避离了他们的天敌，而这种新树对其毫无抵抗力。在某种程度上,加拿大铁杉树林被认为是密西西比河东部原始雨林的最后一部分。
en:This little Japanese garden-like creation probably took 700 yearsto form in its complexity that we see right now.As you look at a tree, it takes a magnifying glass to see a giant tree.I have to show you something unfortunately very sadat the conclusion of this talk.The Eastern Hemlock tree has often been described as the Redwood of the East.And we&#39;re moving in a full circle now.In the 1950s, a small organism appeared in Richmond, Virginia,called the Hemlock woolly adelgid.It made a trans-species jump out of some other organism in Asia,where it was living on Hemlock trees in Asia.When it moved into its new host, the Eastern Hemlock tree,it escaped its predators, and the new tree had no resistance to it.The Eastern Hemlock forest is being considered in some waysthe last fragments of primeval rainforest east of the Mississippi River.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:我以前并不知道东部原来还有雨林，不过在大烟山国家公园里每年雨量可达到25400毫米。而且在最近两到三个夏天里，这些侵略性生物，有如扩散在树木中的“埃博拉病毒”，已经横扫了东部整个的原始铁杉林，使它们完全灭绝。去年夏天我去那里进行爬树之旅。这是大烟山国家公园，而眼睛所及之处的铁杉均已死去。而且我们现在看着的并不仅仅是加拿大铁杉灭绝的可能——换句话说，它们将灭绝于这种侵略性的寄生体——我们看到的更是一个令人难以置信般复杂的生态系统的死去因为这些树是一个基座，一个支撑着那些长在树冠上空中生态迷宫的基座。
en:I hadn&#39;t even known that there were rainforests in the east,but in Great Smoky Mountains National Parkit can rain up to 100 inches of rain a year.And in the last two to three summers, these invasive organisms,this kind of Ebola of the trees, as it were,has swept through the primeval Hemlock forest of the east,and has absolutely wiped it out. I climbed there this past summer.This is Great Smoky Mountains National Park,and the Hemlocks are dead as far as the eye can see.And what we&#39;re seeing is not just the potential deathof the Eastern Hemlock species —that is to say, its extinction from nature due to this invading parasite —but we&#39;re also seeing the death of an incredibly complex ecosystemfor which these trees are merely the substratefor the aerial labyrinth of the sky that exists in their crowns.
时间：15:36
zh-cn:看到这些实在是令人心碎。而有件事情我几乎无法理解——国家的新闻媒体居然对这毫不关心，尽管这意味着北美最重要生态系统之一的毁灭。红杉树又能告诉我们关于我们自己的什么呢？我想，它们可以告诉我们一些关于人类时间的东西。人类时间的转瞬即逝以及人类生命的短暂——它告诉我们爱的需要。但我们跟树不一样,他们还教会我们我们自己身上存在哪些不同点。我们是人类，我们可以爱，我们可以询问，我们还有一种无边的好奇心，以及永不休止的求知欲我想，这些跟我们作为灵长类是多么匹配啊。
en:It&#39;s absolutely heartbreaking to see.One of the things that is just — I almost can&#39;t conceive it —is the idea that the national news media hasn&#39;t picked this up at all,and this is the devastation of one of the most important ecosystems in North America.What can the Redwoods tell us about ourselves?Well, I think they can tell us something about human time.The flickering, transitory quality of human timeand the brevity of human life — the necessity to love.But we&#39;re different from trees, and they can also teach ussomething about ourselves in the differences that we have.We are human, and we have the capacity to love,we have the capacity to wonder, and we have a sort ofboundless curiosity, a restless inquisitivenessthat so suits us as primates, I think.
时间：16:31
zh-cn:而对我个人来说，这些树木至少教会了我一种全新的去爱我的孩子的方式。与他们一起在树冠里探险是我生命里最美好的事情之一。我又想，另外一件最快乐的事情，就是我可以向他们介绍这些十分幸运，或者说，十分愚蠢的，仍在爬着树的人们。非常感谢你们。
en:And at least for me, personally, the trees have taught mean entirely new way of loving my children.Exploring with them the forest canopyhas been one of the most lovely things of my existence on Earth.And I think that one of the happiest things is the sense thatwith my children I&#39;ve been able to introduce theminto the very small circle of humans who are lucky enough,or possibly stupid enough, to still climb trees.Thank you very much.
时间：17:02
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:13
zh-cn:克里斯·安德森：我想到了之前的一个TED讲座，我想那是纳森·梅尔沃德，他告诉我这些树大概有2000岁或更老，而很多棵树本身就是一个独特生态系统里面有着无法在别处找到的物种，除非在仅仅的那一棵红杉身上。是么？
en:Chris Anderson: I think at a previous TED,I think it was Nathan Myhrvold who told me that it was thought thatbecause these trees are like, 2,000 years and older,on many of them there are ecosystems where there are speciesthat are not found anywhere on the Earthexcept on that one tree. Is that correct?
时间：17:31
zh-cn:理查德·普雷斯顿：是的。我提到了亥帕龙神，这棵世界上最高的树。在2006年，我是首个爬这棵树的攀登队的成员之一。当我们在爬亥帕龙神的时候，马莉·安东尼发现一种未知的金棕蚁在树干的半腰处。据我们所知，蚁类不会出现在红杉树上，这很奇怪，我们疑惑，是否这个蚂蚁，或这种蚂蚁，只在这棵树或它所在的那个树丛里才特有。而在接下来的攀登中他们再也找不到那只蚂蚁了，所以，我们没能收集到标本。我们不知道那是什么，我们只知道他们在那里。
en:Richard Preston: Yes, that is correct. I mentioned Hyperion, the world&#39;s tallest tree.And I was a member of a climbing team that made the first climb of it, in 2006.And while we were climbing Hyperion, Marie Antoine spottedan unknown species of golden-brown ant about halfway up the trunk.Ants are not known to occur in Redwood trees, curiously enough,and we wondered whether this ant, this species of ant,was only endemic to that one tree, or possibly to that grove.And in subsequent climbs they could never find that ant again,and so no specimens have ever been collected.We don&#39;t know what it is — we just know it&#39;s there.
时间：18:10
zh-cn:CA：那么，我们需要询问的是是否有着其它一些物种在记录着地球上那些重要的故事，正如你知道的，对于我们的故事，那就是伊拉克和战争和政治，以及关于名人的闲话。你刚才告诉了我们一个与众不同的故事，如果这些可悲的军备竞赛继续下去，那么地球所有的生态系统都会永远毁灭。你给了我一种惊异的感觉，并让我了解到了这整个系统是多么的脆弱。
en:CA: So, you have to wonder when, you know,if some other species than us was recording the stories that mattered on Earth,you know, our stories are about Iraq and war and politics and celebrity gossip.You&#39;ve just told us a different story of this tragic arms race that&#39;s happening,and maybe whole ecosystems gone forever.It&#39;s an amazing sense of wonder you&#39;ve given me,and a sense of just how fragile this whole thing is.
时间：18:36
zh-cn:RP:她是脆弱的，你知道，我想到了新兴的人类疾病——那些能感染人类的寄生生物。但相对于全世界各个生态系统的物种入侵这个更大的问题来说，那只是很小的一个方面，你知道，地球本身——
en:RP: It is fragile, and you know, I think about emerging human diseases —parasites that move into the human species.But that&#39;s just a very small facetof a much greater problem of invasions of species worldwide,all through the ecosystems, and you know, the Earth itself —
时间：18:52
zh-cn:CA：部分原因是我们造成的，并且是无意的。
en:CA: Partly caused by us, inadvertently.
时间：18:55
zh-cn:RP：因人类而起，因人类的行为而起。你可以联想一下，地球的生物圈是一个宫殿，而各大陆是宫殿里的房间，岛屿则是其中小房间。可是最近，这个宫殿内的门被猛然甩开，里面的墙也正在坍塌。
en:RP: Caused by humans. Caused by the movement of humans.You can think of the Earth&#39;s biosphere as a palace,and the continents are rooms in the palace,and the islands are small rooms.But lately, the doors of the palace have been flung open,and the walls are coming down.
时间：19:15
zh-cn:CA：理查德·雷斯顿，非常感谢。
en:CA: Richard Preston, thank you very much, I think.
时间：19:17
zh-cn:RP：谢谢。
en:RP: Thank you.
