时间： 0:11
zh-cn:你们都应该知道我要讲的事实。我认为不平等能够引起社会分裂和腐化的这种直觉在法国大革命之前就存在了。不同的是我们现在可以找出证据，我们可以通过比较社会，平等程度不同的社会，来了解不平等导致的影响。我将给你们展示一些数据并解释为什么那些数据确实存在关联。
en:You all know the truth of what I&#39;m going to say.I think the intuition that inequality is divisive and socially corrosivehas been around since before the French Revolution.What&#39;s changedis we now can look at the evidence,we can compare societies, more and less equal societies,and see what inequality does.I&#39;m going to take you through that dataand then explain whythe links I&#39;m going to be showing you exist.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:但是首先，来看看我们的命有多苦。（笑声）我想以一个矛盾开始我的演讲。这张图显示了我们的平均寿命相对于国民总收入的关系——后者衡量的是国家的平均富裕程度。你们可以看看右侧的那些国家，像挪威和美国，它们的富裕程度是以色列、希腊、葡萄牙这些左侧的国家的两倍。但这并没有影响它们国民的平均寿命。没有相互关联的迹象。但是如果我们去了解社会内部，就能发现在它们整个社会内部有很大的健康状况差异。这张图展示的，依然是平均寿命。
en:But first, see what a miserable lot we are.(Laughter)I want to start thoughwith a paradox.This shows you life expectancyagainst gross national income —how rich countries are on average.And you see the countries on the right,like Norway and the USA,are twice as rich as Israel, Greece, Portugal on the left.And it makes no difference to their life expectancy at all.There&#39;s no suggestion of a relationship there.But if we look within our societies,there are extraordinary social gradients in healthrunning right across society.This, again, is life expectancy.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:这些都是英格兰和威尔士的小镇——最穷的在右侧，最富的在左侧。穷人和其他人之间有很大的差异。甚至是那些刚好在顶端之下的人，他们的健康状况都比在顶端的人要差。所以收入在我们的社会中意味非常，但在不同社会间的的比较并没有意义。那个矛盾的解释就是，在我们社会中，我们看的是相对收入或者说社会地位、身份——就是我们之间的相互关系以及人与人之间的差距大小。一旦你有了那种想法，你就应该马上想到：如果差距扩大会发生什么？要是缩小差距呢？扩大或是减小收入差距会怎么样呢？
en:These are small areas of England and Wales —the poorest on the right, the richest on the left.A lot of difference between the poor and the rest of us.Even the people just below the tophave less good healththan the people at the top.So income means something very importantwithin our societies,and nothing between them.The explanation of that paradoxis that, within our societies,we&#39;re looking at relative incomeor social position, social status —where we are in relation to each otherand the size of the gaps between us.And as soon as you&#39;ve got that idea,you should immediately wonder:what happens if we widen the differences,or compress them,make the income differences bigger or smaller?
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:这就是我马上要告诉你们的。我没有使用任何假设的数据。我的数据来自联合国——和世界银行的数据一样——是关于这些富有、发达市场的民主国家间的收入差距的。我们用的方法，简单易懂，并且你们可以下载，就是比较每个国家的前 20%与后 20% 的收入差距。你们可以看到左侧的国家都比较平等——日本、芬兰、挪威、瑞典——他们的前 20% 的富裕程度大概是后 20% 的3.5 到 4 倍。但是在比较不平等的另外一侧——英国、葡萄牙、美国、新加坡——收入差距要大一倍。按这种比较方式，我们国家（英国）的不平等程度是另外一些同样成功的民主市场的两倍。
en:And that&#39;s what I&#39;m going to show you.I&#39;m not using any hypothetical data.I&#39;m taking data from the U.N. —it&#39;s the same as the World Bank has —on the scale of income differencesin these rich developed market democracies.The measure we&#39;ve used,because it&#39;s easy to understand and you can download it,is how much richer the top 20 percentthan the bottom 20 percent in each country.And you see in the more equal countries on the left —Japan, Finland, Norway, Sweden —the top 20 percent are about three and a half, four times as richas the bottom 20 percent.But on the more unequal end —U.K., Portugal, USA, Singapore —the differences are twice as big.On that measure, we are twice as unequalas some of the other successful market democracies.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:接下来我将会展示这对我们社会有什么影响。我们针对社会内部差异产生的问题收集了数据，这类问题在社会最底层更加的普遍。国际上可供比较的数据包括平均寿命、儿童的数学和语文成绩、婴儿死亡率、自杀率、监狱人口比例、少女早孕率、互信程度、肥胖、心理疾病——这些病都符合标准的诊断分类包括毒瘾和酒瘾——以及社会流动率。我们把所有这些都归到一个系数里。他们都被平均加权。一个国家的分数就是这些因子平均得到的。你可以看到，这些分数是与刚才我展示过的不平等比较相关的，我将反复展示这些数据。越是不平等的国家在各种社会问题上表现得就越差。关联性非常强。但是如果你看同样的健康和社会问题与人均国民收入以及国民总收入的指数的比较，那你就什么也不会发现，再没有相关性了。
en:Now I&#39;m going to show you what that does to our societies.We collected data on problems with social gradients,the kind of problems that are more commonat the bottom of the social ladder.Internationally comparable data on life expectancy,on kids&#39; maths and literacy scores,on infant mortality rates, homicide rates,proportion of the population in prison, teenage birthrates,levels of trust,obesity, mental illness —which in standard diagnostic classificationincludes drug and alcohol addiction —and social mobility.We put them all in one index.They&#39;re all weighted equally.Where a country is is a sort of average score on these things.And there, you see itin relation to the measure of inequality I&#39;ve just shown you,which I shall use over and over again in the data.The more unequal countriesare doing worseon all these kinds of social problems.It&#39;s an extraordinarily close correlation.But if you look at that same indexof health and social problemsin relation to GNP per capita,gross national income,there&#39;s nothing there,no correlation anymore.
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:我们有一点担心人们可能会想我们是挑选特定的问题以迎合我们的理论然后人为的制造证据。所以我们也在《英国医学期刊》发表了一篇关于联合国儿童基金会儿童福利指数的论文。它包含 40 个不同的部分，来自他人的总结。它包括儿童是否能与父母交谈，家中是否有图书，免疫率有多少，以及学校是否存在欺辱现象。所有都包括进去了。这就是该指数与同样的不平等程度的关系。在越不平等的社会，儿童的表现就越差。关系及其显著。但是再一次，如果你看的是儿童福利与人均国民收入的关系，你将一无所获。没有关联的迹象。
en:We were a little bit worriedthat people might thinkwe&#39;d been choosing problems to suit our argumentand just manufactured this evidence,so we also did a paper in the British Medical Journalon the UNICEF index of child well-being.It has 40 different componentsput together by other people.It contains whether kids can talk to their parents,whether they have books at home,what immunization rates are like, whether there&#39;s bullying at school.Everything goes into it.Here it is in relation to that same measure of inequality.Kids do worse in the more unequal societies.Highly significant relationship.But once again,if you look at that measure of child well-being,in relation to national income per person,there&#39;s no relationship,no suggestion of a relationship.
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:我目前向你们展示的所有数据所揭示的都是同一样的东西。我们社会的平均福利再也不是取决于国民收入和经济增长。它们在较穷的国家非常重要，但是对于富裕的发达国家来说却并非如此。而我们之间的差异以及我们相对于他人的位置如今看来非常重要。下面我将为大家展示我们指数的一些分部。这是相互信任指数。指的是同意大多数人都可信的人数比例。这是来自“世界价值观调查”的数据。可以看到，在较不平等的一侧，大约有 15% 的人感觉他们能相信他人。但是在更加平等的社会，这一比例上升到了 60% 或 65%。如果再看社区活动参与度或者是社会资本的评估，都有非常相似的关联与不平等紧密相关。
en:What all the data I&#39;ve shown you so far saysis the same thing.The average well-being of our societiesis not dependent any longeron national income and economic growth.That&#39;s very important in poorer countries,but not in the rich developed world.But the differences between usand where we are in relation to each othernow matter very much.I&#39;m going to show you some of the separate bits of our index.Here, for instance, is trust.It&#39;s simply the proportion of the populationwho agree most people can be trusted.It comes from the World Values Survey.You see, at the more unequal end,it&#39;s about 15 percent of the populationwho feel they can trust others.But in the more equal societies,it rises to 60 or 65 percent.And if you look at measures of involvement in community lifeor social capital,very similar relationshipsclosely related to inequality.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:我要说，我们重复了这项工作两次。第一次针对的是这些富裕发达国家，我们之后更换了测试对象，对美国 50 个州重复了这个测试——调查同样的问题：是否那些越是不平等的州在所有这些评估上就做得越差？这是联邦政府在一项一般社会调查中得出的相互信任与不平等之间的关系。非常相似的散点分布在相似的信任程度范围上。同样的事情还在继续。基本上我们发现几乎所有在国际调查中反映出来的与互信有关的因素也同样反映在我们分别调查的50 个州里面。这并非巧合。
en:I may say, we did all this work twice.We did it first on these rich, developed countries,and then as a separate test bed,we repeated it all on the 50 American states —asking just the same question:do the more unequal statesdo worse on all these kinds of measures?So here is trust from a general social survey of the federal governmentrelated to inequality.Very similar scatterover a similar range of levels of trust.Same thing is going on.Basically we foundthat almost anything that&#39;s related to trust internationallyis related to trust amongst the 50 statesin that separate test bed.We&#39;re not just talking about a fluke.
时间： 6:41
zh-cn:这张图是心理疾病。世界卫生组织通过随机采样采用相同的诊断采访方式搜集数据使得我们能够比较每个社会的心理疾病率。这是上一年患有任意一种心理疾病人口的比率。它的范围是从 8%直到 24% 多——这表明整个社会患有心理疾病的比例是其它社会的 3 倍。同样的，这些都与不平等有着紧密的联系。
en:This is mental illness.WHO put together figuresusing the same diagnostic interviewson random samples of the populationto allow us to compare rates of mental illnessin each society.This is the percent of the populationwith any mental illness in the preceding year.And it goes from about eight percentup to three times that —whole societieswith three times the level of mental illness of others.And again, closely related to inequality.
时间： 7:13
zh-cn:这张图是犯罪率。红点表示美国各州，蓝三角表示加拿大各省。但是看看它们的数量差异。谋杀率从每一百万 15 起直到 150 起。这是监狱囚犯的比率。这是 10 倍的差距，指数函数会放大这差距。但监禁人数的变化范围是从 40 到 400。犯罪并非这一关系的主要原因。在一些地方，犯罪可以解释一部分原因。但是更多的是严厉的审判，或者说更苛刻的审判。社会越是不平等就越倾向于保留死刑。这张图是儿童高中辍学状况。同样，差距很大。如果我们讨论社会人才的选拔，就会发现这种差距的危害非常严重。
en:This is violence.These red dots are American states,and the blue triangles are Canadian provinces.But look at the scale of the differences.It goes from 15 homicides per millionup to 150.This is the proportion of the population in prison.There&#39;s a about a tenfold difference there,log scale up the side.But it goes from about 40 to 400people in prison.That relationshipis not mainly driven by more crime.In some places, that&#39;s part of it.But most of it is about more punitive sentencing,harsher sentencing.And the more unequal societiesare more likely also to retain the death penalty.Here we have children dropping out of high school.Again, quite big differences.Extraordinarily damaging,if you&#39;re talking about using the talents of the population.
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:这张图是社会流动率。实际上是基于收入的流动率计算。基本上，它所追问的是：是否富爸爸有富孩子穷爸爸有穷孩子，或者这两者之间没有任何关系？在较不平等的一侧，爸爸的收入更加的重要——比如说英国、美国。而在北欧，爸爸的收入就不那么重要。那里有更多的社会阶层流动。正如我们常说的——我知道这里有很多美国听众——如果美国人想要实现他们的“美国梦”，他们应该去丹麦。
en:This is social mobility.It&#39;s actually a measure of mobilitybased on income.Basically, it&#39;s asking:do rich fathers have rich sonsand poor fathers have poor sons,or is there no relationship between the two?And at the more unequal end,fathers&#39; income is much more important —in the U.K., USA.And in Scandinavian countries,fathers&#39; income is much less important.There&#39;s more social mobility.And as we like to say —and I know there are a lot of Americans in the audience here —if Americans want to live the American dream,they should go to Denmark.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 8:59
zh-cn:我已经展示过的在这里用斜体字标记。我还可以展示一些其它的问题。那些问题都更普遍存在于社会梯度的底层。但是社会梯度存在着无穷的问题，这些问题在不平等的国家显得更糟——不仅仅是一点点糟，而是什么都要差到 2 倍 10 倍。想想花费，人力成本的花费。
en:I&#39;ve shown you just a few things in italics here.I could have shown a number of other problems.They&#39;re all problems that tend to be more commonat the bottom of the social gradient.But there are endless problems with social gradientsthat are worse in more unequal countries —not just a little bit worse,but anything from twice as common to 10 times as common.Think of the expense,the human cost of that.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:我想回到这张先前展示过的图我们把所有都结合起来为了说明两点。第一，通过一张复一张的图表，我们发现那些表现较差的国家，无论什么，都似乎是那些更不平等的国家，但是那些表现得好的似乎都是北欧和日本。所以我们看到的是普遍社会紊乱与不平等之间的关系。不仅仅是一两件事出了问题，而是几乎所有事。
en:I want to go back though to this graph that I showed you earlierwhere we put it all togetherto make two points.One is that, in graph after graph,we find the countries that do worse,whatever the outcome,seem to be the more unequal ones,and the ones that do wellseem to be the Nordic countries and Japan.So what we&#39;re looking atis general social disfunction related to inequality.It&#39;s not just one or two things that go wrong,it&#39;s most things.
时间： 9:54
zh-cn:这张图上我想指出的另外一个很重要的点就是，如果你看看底部，瑞士和日本，他们在所有方面都显示出他们是非常不同的国家。妇女的地位，他们对小家庭的坚守程度，在富裕发达的国家之中，是在两个极端。但是另外一个很重要的不同就是他们如何实现较大平等的。瑞典在收入上有很大的差异，但它用税收、国家福利、慷慨的救济等等来缩小差距。日本则相当不同。首先日本税前工资差距比较小。它的税收较低。它的福利也比较少。而对美国各州的研究中，我们发现了鲜明的对比。有一些州表现好是通过再分配，而另外有一些州表现好是因为税前收入差距小。所以我们得出结论如何实现较大的平等并不重要，重要的是能实现这种平等。
en:The other really important point I want to make on this graphis that, if you look at the bottom,Sweden and Japan,they&#39;re very different countries in all sorts of ways.The position of women,how closely they keep to the nuclear family,are on opposite ends of the polesin terms of the rich developed world.But another really important differenceis how they get their greater equality.Sweden has huge differences in earnings,and it narrows the gap through taxation,general welfare state,generous benefits and so on.Japan is rather different though.It starts off with much smaller differences in earnings before tax.It has lower taxes.It has a smaller welfare state.And in our analysis of the American states,we find rather the same contrast.There are some states that do well through redistribution,some states that do wellbecause they have smaller income differences before tax.So we concludethat it doesn&#39;t much matter how you get your greater equality,as long as you get there somehow.
时间：10:56
zh-cn:我不是在说完全的平等，我说的都是确实存在于富裕发达市场民主国家的。关于这个图，另外一个出乎意料的事情就是不仅仅是穷人会受不平等的影响。约翰·多恩（英国诗人）的话似乎有点道理：“没有人是一座孤岛。”通过一系列的研究，我们能够比较每一个社会阶层的人在平等程度或多或少的不同国家的行为。这只是一个例子。这张图是婴儿死亡率。根据英国一般社会经济分类记录，一些瑞典人非常仁慈的归类了很多婴儿死亡。这是一种不符合时代的基于父亲职位的分类，所以单身母亲自成一组数据。但是我们看所谓的“社会低级阶层”，那是无需技术的手工工作。中间是需要技术的手工工作，再到高级非手工工作，一直高到专业工作——医生、律师、大公司的经理。
en:I am not talking about perfect equality,I&#39;m talking about what exists in rich developed market democracies.Another really surprising part of this pictureis that it&#39;s not just the poorwho are affected by inequality.There seems to be some truth in John Donne&#39;s&quot;No man is an island.&quot;And in a number of studies, it&#39;s possible to comparehow people do in more and less equal countriesat each level in the social hierarchy.This is just one example.It&#39;s infant mortality.Some Swedes very kindly classified a lot of their infant deathsaccording to the British register of general socioeconomic classification.And so it&#39;s anachronisticallya classification by fathers&#39; occupations,so single parents go on their own.But then where it says &quot;low social class,&quot;that&#39;s unskilled manual occupations.It goes through towards the skilled manual occupations in the middle,then the junior non-manual,going up high to the professional occupations —doctors, lawyers,directors of larger companies.
时间：12:07
zh-cn:这里可以看出瑞典比英国做得好，在每一个社会阶层上都做得更好。最大的差异出现在社会的底层。但即使是在顶端，生活在一个较平等的社会都有一些优势。我们展示了 5 组不同的数据包括了美国和国际的教育结果以及健康状况。似乎总体而言——较为平等的社会在社会底层展示出的差异最明显，但在社会上层也同样会有一些优势。
en:You see there that Sweden does better than Britainall the way across the social hierarchy.The biggest differences are at the bottom of society.But even at the top,there seems to be a small benefitto being in a more equal society.We show that on about five different sets of datacovering educational outcomesand health in the United States and internationally.And that seems to be the general picture —that greater equality makes most difference at the bottom,but has some benefits even at the top.
时间：12:40
zh-cn:我该解释一下怎么回事。我认为我是在展示和讨论不平等对社会心理的影响。更多的是关注优越感和自卑感，被重视和被看不起，被尊重和被贬低。当然，那些由于身份地位的竞争而产生的感觉促动了社会消费主义的前进。但它同样也导致了地位的不确保性。我们更担心的是别人如何评判和看待我们，我们是否显得有吸引力、聪明、或是诸如此类。社会价值评价增强了对这些社会价值评价的恐惧。
en:But I should say a few words about what&#39;s going on.I think I&#39;m looking and talkingabout the psychosocial effects of inequality.More to do with feelings of superiority and inferiority,of being valued and devalued,respected and disrespected.And of course, those feelingsof the status competition that comes out of thatdrives the consumerism in our society.It also leads to status insecurity.We worry more about how we&#39;re judged and seen by others,whether we&#39;re regarded as attractive, clever,all that kind of thing.The social-evaluative judgments increase,the fear of those social-evaluative judgments.
时间：13:25
zh-cn:有趣的是，社会心理学领域一些类似的工作也在同样进行着：一些人查阅了 208 项不同的研究；在研究中，志愿者被邀请到一个心理试验中心然后测试他们的压力霍尔蒙以及他们执行压力任务时的反应。在这观察中，科学家感兴趣是哪一种压力最能提高体内皮质醇，最重要的压力霍尔蒙的水平。结果正是那些包括社会评价威胁的任务——威胁到自尊和社会地位的任务——这些任务中他人能负面评价你的表现。这些压力在压力生理学上有非常特别的效果。
en:Interestingly,some parallel work going on in social psychology:some people reviewed 208 different studiesin which volunteers had been invitedinto a psychological laboratoryand had their stress hormones,their responses to doing stressful tasks, measured.And in the review,what they were interested in seeingis what kind of stressesmost reliably raise levels of cortisol,the central stress hormone.And the conclusion wasit was tasks that included social-evaluative threat —threats to self-esteem or social statusin which others can negatively judge your performance.Those kind of stresseshave a very particular effecton the physiology of stress.
时间：14:16
zh-cn:目前我们已经接受了批评。当然，有些人不喜欢这个，也有人发现这个很出人意料。然而我还是应该告诉你们当人们批评我们挑拣数据时，我们从来没有这样做过。我们有一个无条件的规定如果我们的数据源包含所观测国家的数据，那么我们就将其纳入分析。我们的数据源决定数据是否有效，而不是我们。否则就会产生偏差。
en:Now we have been criticized.Of course, there are people who dislike this stuffand people who find it very surprising.I should tell you thoughthat when people criticize us for picking and choosing data,we never pick and choose data.We have an absolute rulethat if our data source has data for one of the countries we&#39;re looking at,it goes into the analysis.Our data source decideswhether it&#39;s reliable data,we don&#39;t.Otherwise that would introduce bias.
时间：14:46
zh-cn:其它国家呢？学术同行审查的期刊中，有 200 项研究是关于健康与收入和平等的关系的。这并没有局限于这里的这些国家，暗藏着一个很简单的证明。同样的国家同样的不平等测量方法，问题一个接一个。我们为什么不控制其它的因素呢?我已经向大家展示了人均国民收入并没有产生任何影响。当然，另外有人在文献中应用了更为复杂的方法在实验中排除了贫困、教育等因素。
en:What about other countries?There are 200 studiesof health in relation to income and equalityin the academic peer-reviewed journals.This isn&#39;t confined to these countries here,hiding a very simple demonstration.The same countries,the same measure of inequality,one problem after another.Why don&#39;t we control for other factors?Well we&#39;ve shown you that GNP per capitadoesn&#39;t make any difference.And of course, others using more sophisticated methods in the literaturehave controlled for poverty and educationand so on.
时间：15:26
zh-cn:因果关系如何呢？相关性本身并不能证明因果联系。我们花了相当的时间。确实，人们对我们这些结果的因果联系有很好的了解。我们对富裕发达国家长期保持健康的驱动因素的理解中最大的改变就是来自社会的长期压力对免疫力以及心血管系统的影响有多重要或者比如说，暴力在较不平等的国家变得越来越普遍的原因就是因为人们对自己被瞧不起非常敏感。
en:What about causality?Correlation in itself doesn&#39;t prove causality.We spend a good bit of time.And indeed, people know the causal links quite wellin some of these outcomes.The big change in our understandingof drivers of chronic healthin the rich developed worldis how important chronic stress from social sourcesis affecting the immune system,the cardiovascular system.Or for instance, the reason why violencebecomes more common in more unequal societiesis because people are sensitive to being looked down on.
时间：16:02
zh-cn:我要说，为了解决这个问题，我们应该解决税后以及税前的一系列问题。我们应该限制收入，遏制顶端的奖金收入文化。我认为我们必须竭尽所能让我们的领导们对员工负责。我最后想要总结的就是我们能够通过减少我们的收入差距来提高我们的真实的生活质量。这样的话，我们会发现我们突然就解决了整个社会的社会心理健康问题，那真是棒极了。
en:I should say that to deal with this,we&#39;ve got to deal with the post-tax thingsand the pre-tax things.We&#39;ve got to constrain income,the bonus culture incomes at the top.I think we must make our bosses accountable to their employeesin any way we can.I think the take-home message thoughis that we can improve the real quality of human lifeby reducing the differences in incomes between us.Suddenly we have a handleon the psychosocial well-being of whole societies,and that&#39;s exciting.
时间：16:36
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：16:38
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
