时间： 0:11
zh-cn:上个月，大英百科全书宣布，在墨印了244年后，它即将停止继续印刷。 这让我变得很怀旧，因为我想起了一个我小时候在我家乡的图书馆中用一本巨大的百科全书所玩的游戏，那时我大概12岁左右吧。而我想我是否可以将那个游戏升级，不仅用现代化了的方式，也是为了今天的我。
en:So, last month, the Encyclopaedia Britannica announcedthat it is going out of printafter 244 years, which made me nostalgic,because I remember playing a game with the colossal encyclopedia set in my hometown libraryback when I was a kid,maybe 12 years old.And I wondered if I could update that game,not just for modern methods,but for the modern me.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:所以我尝试了。我上了一个在线百科全书，维基百科，然后输入了“地球”。你可以从任何地方开始，这次我选了地球。游戏的第一个规则很简单。你只需要阅读这篇文章，直到你找到一个你不知道的东西，最好是连你父亲都不知道的东西。
en:So I tried.I went to an online encyclopedia,Wikipedia, and I entered the term &quot;Earth.&quot;You can start anywhere, this time I chose Earth.And the first rule of the game is pretty simple.You just have to read the articleuntil you find something you don&#39;t know,and preferably something your dad doesn&#39;t even know.
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:而这次，我很快的找到了这个：离地球中心最远的点并不是珠穆朗玛峰的顶端，像我想的那样，而是这个山脉的顶端： 厄瓜多尔的钦博拉索山。地球会自转，同时也在绕着太阳公转，所以地球的中线部分有些突出，像一些的地球人一样。而虽然钦博拉索山不是安第斯山脉最高的山峰，它离赤道只有一个度的差距，它就在那突出的上方，所以钦博拉索山的巅峰是地球上离地球中心最远的地方。
en:And in this case, I quickly found this:The furthest point from the center of the Earthis not the tip of Mount Everest, like I might have thought,it&#39;s the tip of this mountain: Mount Chimborazo in Ecuador.The Earth spins, of course, as it travels around the sun,so the Earth bulges a little bit around the middle,like some Earthlings.And even though Mount Chimborazo isn&#39;t the tallest mountain in the Andes,it&#39;s one degree away from the equator,it&#39;s riding that bulge, and so the summit of Chimborazois the farthest point on Earth from the center of the Earth.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:它的名字读起来也很有意思。所以我立刻就决定了，它将是我的游戏的名字，或者我新的惊叹词。你也可以在TED这里使用。钦博拉索，是吧？它就像“尤里卡（找到了）”和“宾果（中了）”的孩子。这我之前不知道，而它也挺有意思的。钦博拉索！
en:And it is really fun to say.So I immediately decided,this is going to be the name of the game,or my new exclamation.You can use it at TED.Chimborazo, right?It&#39;s like &quot;eureka&quot; and &quot;bingo&quot; had a baby.I didn&#39;t know that;that&#39;s pretty cool.Chimborazo!
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:而游戏的下一个规则同样简单。你只需要找到下一个词汇，然后搜索它。在以前，这意味着拿出一本书然后按字母顺序搜索。中间你可能会被其他的吸引，而它很好玩。
en:So the next rule of the game is also pretty simple.You just have to find another term and look that up.Now in the old days, that meant getting out a volumeand browsing through it alphabetically,maybe getting sidetracked,that was fun.
时间： 1:51
zh-cn:现在你有上百个链接可以选择。我可以去世界上的任何地方，我想，既然我已经在了厄瓜多尔，我决定选择“热带”这个词汇。它将我带到了围绕着地球的一个潮湿并温暖的热带雨林中。
en:Nowadays there are hundreds of links to choose from.I can go literally anywhere in the world,I think since I was already in Ecuador,I just decided to click on the word &quot;tropical.&quot;That took me to this wet and warm band of the tropicsthat encircles the Earth.
时间： 2:07
zh-cn:那是北面的北回归线以及南面的南回归线，这些是我知道的。但我很惊讶的学到了这一小个事实：这些不是制图者的线，像纬度或国家的边界，它们代表着地球倾斜造成的天文现象，而它们一直在改变。它们会动；有时上，有时下。事实上，在很长的时间中，北回归线和南回归线在稳定的以每年15米的速度朝着赤道移动。而没人告诉过我这点。我之前并不知道。钦博拉索！
en:Now that&#39;s the Tropic of Cancer in the northand the Tropic of Capricorn in the south,that much I knew,but I was surprised to learn this little fact:Those are not cartographers&#39; lines,like latitude or the borders between nations,they are astronomical phenomena caused by the Earth&#39;s tilt,and they change.They move; they go up, they go down.In fact, for years, the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricornhave been steadily drifting towards the equatorat the rate of about 15 meters per year,and nobody told me that.I didn&#39;t know it.Chimborazo!
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:为了让游戏继续，我只需要再找一个词来搜索。既然我已经在热带区域了，我选择了“热带雨林”。它因为它的人类的多样化而闻名。在这个星球上仍然有着很多没有接触过的人类部落，他们散步在全球各地，但基本上所有都住在热带雨林中。这是地球上唯一一个你不会被在脸书上加为好友的地方。
en:So to keep the game going, I just have to find another term and look that one up.Since I&#39;m already in the tropics, I chose &quot;Tropical rainforest.&quot;Famous for its diversity, human diversity.There are still dozens and dozens of uncontacted tribes living on this planet.They&#39;re all over the globe, but virtually all of them live in tropical rainforests.This is the only place you can go nowadays and not get &quot;friended.&quot;
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:我点的这个链接在开头时很奇异，而在后面变的越来越神秘。它提到了豹子和环尾长鼻浣熊和毒箭娃和蟒蛇以及甲虫类，也就是甲虫。
en:The link that I clicked on here was exotic in the beginning and then absolutely mysterious at the very end.It mentioned leopards and ring-tailed coatis and poison dart frogs and boa constrictors and thencoleoptera,which turn out to be beetles.
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:我是有意的点了这个的，但假如我因为某种原因搞错了，它会提醒我，如果找到的乐队，看“甲壳虫乐队”，找的是车，那看“大众甲壳虫”，但我是来看真的甲虫的。它是地球上最成功的物种。地球上所有的生命中，包括植物在内，有百分之二十到二十五都是甲壳虫。这意味着，下一次你在杂货店的时候，看看你队伍前方的四个人。统计上来说，你们其中有一个是甲壳虫。
en:Now I clicked on this on purpose,but if I&#39;d somehow gotten here by mistake,it does remind me, for the band, see &quot;The Beatles,&quot;for the car see &quot;Volkswagon Beetle,&quot;but I am here for beetle beetles.This is the most successful order on the planet by far.Something between 20 and 25 percent of all life forms on the planet,including plants, are beetles.That means the next time you are in the grocery store,take a look at the four people ahead of you in line.Statistically, one of you is a beetle.
时间： 3:53
zh-cn:而如果这是你，你适应得非常好。有在博物馆吃骨头上的皮肤和肉的拾荒者甲壳虫。有攻击其他昆虫但任然看起来很可爱的捕食者甲壳虫。有甲壳虫将粪便滚成小球并将它滚过沙漠上很长的距离来喂养它的后代。这让古代的埃及人想起了它们的神赫普里，他在每天早上都重新点燃太阳的火球。这就是为什么滚粪便的圣甲虫变成了图坦卡蒙法老胸甲上的圣甲虫。
en:And if it is you, you are astonishingly well adapted.There are scavenger beetles that pick the skin and flesh off of bones in museums.There are predator beetles, that attack other insectsand still look pretty cute to us.There are beetles that roll little balls of dunggreat distances across the desert floor to feed to their hatchlings.This reminded the ancient Egyptians of their god Khepri,who renews the ball of the sun every morning,which is how that dung-rolling scarabbecame that sacred scarab on the breastplate of the Pharaoh Tutankhamun.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:甲壳虫们，提醒了我，它们有着动物界中最浪漫的调情手段。萤火虫不是像苍蝇，萤火虫是甲虫。萤火虫是甲虫类的，而甲虫类也会用很多其他的方法来交流。
en:Beetles, I was reminded, have the most romantic flirtation in the animal kingdom.Fireflies are not flies, fireflies are beetles.Fireflies are coleoptera, and coleoptera communicate in other ways as well.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:就像我下一个连接：信息素的化学语言。这信息素的网页带我到了一个海胆交配的视频。嗯。
en:Like my next link:The chemical language of pheromones.Now the pheromone page took me to a video of a sea urchin having sex.Yeah.
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:以及一个催情剂的链接。它提高性欲，像巧克力。巧克力中有一种东西叫苯乙胺，它很有可能是一种催情剂。但这篇文章说，因为酶的作用，如果口服的话，苯乙胺很有可能不会到达你的大脑。所以在座的只吃你们的巧克力的，你可能需要尝试一下。
en:And the link to aphrodisiac.Now that&#39;s something that increases sexual desire,possibly chocolate.There is a compound in chocolate called phenethylaminethat might be an aphrodisiac.But as the article mentions,because of enzyme breakdown,it&#39;s unlikely that phenethylamine will reach your brain if taken orally.So those of you who only eat your chocolate, you might have to experiment.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:在这里点的链接叫&quot;感应巫术&quot;，因为我明白这两个词的意思，但不明白它们的组合。我喜欢同情，我也喜欢魔术。所以当我点了“感应魔术”时，我看到了感应魔术和巫毒娃娃。
en:The link I clicked on here,&quot;sympathetic magic,&quot; mostly because I understand what both of those words mean.But not when they&#39;re together like that.I do like sympathy. I do like magic.So when I click on &quot;sympathetic magic,&quot;I get sympathetic magic and voodoo dolls.
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:我的童心又被挑起了。感应魔术的基础是模仿。如果你模仿一样事物，或许你也可以影响到它。这是巫毒娃娃的原理，也有可能关联到石洞壁画。
en:This is the boy in me getting lucky again.Sympathetic magic is imitation.If you imitate something, maybe you can have an effect on it.That&#39;s the idea behind voodoo dolls, and possibly also cave paintings.
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:石洞壁画的链接带我到了一些人类最古老的艺术。我很想看用谷歌地图看看这些洞穴的内部。我们有万年之前的艺术品。全球的一些共同主题包括巨型动物以及人类手掌的轮廓描绘，通常是左手。
en:The link to cave paintings takes me to some of the oldest art known to humankind.I would love to see Google maps inside some of these caves.We&#39;ve got tens-of-thousands-years-old artwork.Common themes around the globe include large wild animals and tracings of human hands,usually the left hand.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:我们从千年前便是主右手的部落，所以虽然我不知道为什么一个旧石器时代的人会描画他的手，又或往它上面（从管子中）吹出色素，我可以很容易的想象出他是怎么做到的。而我也不觉得它和在我们这里用的手型光标有什么区别我将用它点击“手”这个词汇的链接。在“手”的页面上，我找到了在很长时间内都是最好玩但也让我羞愧的一个细节。它很简单：手的背面正式的被叫做 Opisthenar （手背）。
en:We have been a dominantly right-handed tribe for millenia,so even though I don&#39;t know why a paleolithic person would trace his handor blow pigment on it from a tube,I can easily picture how he did it.And I really don&#39;t think it&#39;s that different form our own little dominant hand avatarright there that I&#39;m going to use now to click on the term for &quot;hand,&quot;go to the page for &quot;hand,&quot; where I found the most fun and possibly embarrassing bit of triviaI&#39;ve found in a long time. It&#39;s simply this:The back of the hand is formally called the opisthenar.
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:这有些尴尬，因为知道现在，每次当我说，“我熟悉它就像我熟悉我的手背一样“，我其实都在说，”我非常的熟悉它，我只是不知道它的名字（那个复杂的单词）而已？”我点击的这个链接，说狐猴，猴子和黑猩猩都有小的手背。
en:Now that&#39;s embarrassing, because up until now,every time I&#39;ve said, &quot;I know it like the back of my hand,&quot;I&#39;ve really been saying, &quot;I&#39;m totally familiar with that,I just don&#39;t know it&#39;s freaking name, right?&quot;And the link I clicked on here,well, lemurs, monkeys and chimpanzees have the little opisthenar.
时间： 7:07
zh-cn:我点了黑猩猩，然后我被带到了和我们的基因最近的亲戚。Pan troglodytes （黑猩猩）这个给它的名字，意思是“穴居者”。他其实不住在穴内。他住在雨林和大草原上。只是我们总是觉得它被我们甩在身后，奇怪的在进化的过程中尾随着我们，而在某些情况下，他在我们的之前到达一些地方。
en:I click on chimpanzee, and I get our closest genetic relative.Pan troglodytes, the name we give him, means &quot;cave dweller.&quot;He doesn&#39;t.He lives in rainforests and savannas.It&#39;s just that we&#39;re always thinking of this guy as lagging behind us,evolutionarily or somehow uncannily creeping up on us,and in some cases, he gets places before us.
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:像我的下一个链接，一个几乎无法抗拒的链接，太空猩猩汉姆。我点击了他，以为他会带我两次回到游戏的原点。他在喀麦隆出生，喀麦隆就在我的热带地图的中央，而更特别的，它的骨骼在史密斯森协会博物馆中被甲虫清理的很干净。
en:Like my next link, the almost irresistible link, Ham the Astrochimp.I click on him, and I really thought he was going to bring me full circle twice, in fact.He&#39;s born in Cameroon,which is smack in the middle of my tropics map,and more specifically his skeleton wound up in the Smithsonian museum getting picked clean by beetles.
时间： 7:49
zh-cn:在这两件汉姆的里程碑中，他飞入了外太空。他比第一个人类太空员，苏联宇航员尤里·加加林，早几个月经历失重并重返地球。
en:In between those two landmarks in Ham&#39;s life,he flew into space.He experienced weightlessness and re-entrymonths before the first human being to do it,Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:当我点击了尤里·加加林的网页，我看到了这个身材让人惊讶的短小，但异常英雄的一个人物。最高的估计，苏联的估计，说他有1米65，而这最多只有5个半英尺高，有可能因为当他是孩子的时候他有过营养不良。
en:When I click on Yuri Gagarin&#39;s page,I get this guy who was surprisingly short in stature,huge in heroism.Top estimates, Soviet estimates, put this guy at 1.65 meters,that is less than five and a half feet tall max,possibly because he was malnourished as a child.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:当时德国人侵入了俄罗斯。一个纳粹军官抢了加加林家的房子，然后他和他的家人造了一个泥房居住。很多年后，那个拥挤的泥房中的小男孩会长成为那个在火箭顶端的拥挤的航天仓中的，自告奋勇的被发射出外太空的男人，我们之中第一个来真正地离开这个星球。而他不仅仅离开了它。他围绕着它转了一圈。
en:Germans occupied Russia.A Nazi officer took over the Gagarin household,and he and his family built and lived in a mud hut.Years later, the boy from that cramped mud hutwould grow up to be the man in that cramped capsuleon the tip of a rocketwho volunteered to be launched into outer space,the first one of any of us to really physically leave this planet.And he didn&#39;t just leave it,he circled it once.
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:五十年后，为了向他致敬，至今还在上面的国际太空站将它的轨道与加加林的轨道在一天中同样的时间时重叠，并拍了下来。你可以上网看这个大概100多分钟的迷人的旅行，一个孤独的旅行，作为第一个看到它的人类。
en:Fifty years later, as a tribute,the International Space Station, which is still up there tonight,synced its orbit with Gagarin&#39;s orbit,at the exact same time of day,and filmed it,so you can go online and you can watch over 100 minutesof what must have been an absolutely mesmerizing ride,possibly a lonely one,the first person to ever see such a thing.
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:当你看完了它后，你可以再点击一个连接，并回到地球。你回到你开始的地方。你可以完成你的游戏。你只需要在找一个你不知道事实。
en:And then when you&#39;ve had your fill of that,you can click on one more link.You can come back to Earth.You return to where you started.You can finish your game.You just need to find one more fact that you didn&#39;t know.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:对我来说，我很快的看到了它：地球离参考椭球有着大概百分之0.17的公差，比桌球的百分之0.22标准更小。
en:And for me, I quickly landed on this one:The Earth has a tolerance of about .17 percent from the reference spheroid,which is less than the .22 percent allowed in billiard balls.
时间： 9:37
zh-cn:我小的时候非常喜欢这种事情。我自己找到了它。它有着一些我可以做的数学。我很确定我爸爸也不知道。这个的意思是，你可以将地球缩小到一个桌球的大小，如果你可以将地球，以及它上面的高山和洞穴和雨林，航空员和未接触部落和黑猩猩，巫毒娃娃们，萤火虫，巧克力，在海洋内交配的海生物们，你将它缩小的一个桌球的大小，它会想桌球一样的光滑，大概就像一个中间稍微有些突出的桌球。
en:This is the kind of fact I would have loved as a boy.I found it myself.It&#39;s got some math that I can do.I&#39;m pretty sure my dad doesn&#39;t know it.What this means is that if you could shrink the Earth to the size of a billiard ball,if you could take planet Earth, with all its mountain tops and cavesand rainforests, astronauts and uncontacted tribes and chimpanzees, voodoo dolls,fireflies, chocolate, sea creatures making love in the deep blue sea,you just shrink that to the size of a billiard ball,it would be as smooth as a billiard ball,presumably a billiard ball with a slight bulge around the middle.
时间：10:18
zh-cn:这很有意思。我以前也不知道。钦博拉索！
en:That&#39;s pretty cool.I didn&#39;t know that.Chimborazo!
时间：10:25
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：10:26
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
