时间： 0:11
zh-cn:如果你想真正了解我们所面对的海洋问题，你就必须在考虑到物理学的同时也考虑到生物学。我们不可能解决问题，除非我们开始用一种跨学科的方式来研究海洋。所以我会通过对发生在海洋中的一些气候变化的讨论来阐释我的观点。我们会看到海平面上升。我们会看到海洋变暖。那么在这张单子的最下面是，海洋酸化——如果你要问我，“你最担心发生什么？什么最让你害怕？”对于我来说，那就是海洋酸化。而且这件事已迫在眉睫。所以最后我会花一点时间来讲它。
en:If you really want to understandthe problem that we&#39;re facing with the oceans,you have to think about the biologyat the same time you think about the physics.We can&#39;t solve the problemsunless we start studying the oceanin a very much more interdisciplinary way.So I&#39;m going to demonstrate that throughdiscussion of some of the climate change things that are going on in the ocean.We&#39;ll look at sea level rise.We&#39;ll look at ocean warming.And then the last thing on the list there, ocean acidification —if you were to ask me, you know, &quot;What do you worry about the most?What frightens you?&quot;for me, it&#39;s ocean acidification.And this has come onto the stage pretty recently.So I will spend a little time at the end.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:12月份我在哥本哈根就像你们一样，在这样的房间里。然后我想我们大家都发现这是一次令人大开眼界同时也非常令人沮丧的经历。我坐在这样大的交流厅里，从某种程度上讲，大概坐了有3到4个小时，却听不到“海洋”这个词。它确实不在讨论范围内。当轮到各个国家的领导人发言时，某个国家才把这个话题提出来。这好像是那些小的岛国也就是那些低海拔岛国的的领导人。这些低海拔的国家，如基里巴斯和瑙鲁，因为按照字母顺序排列国家的原因，他们（的领导人）坐在这些长长队伍中非常靠后的位置。大家知道，在这个交流大厅里他们被边缘化了。
en:I was in Copenhagen in Decemberlike a number of you in this room.And I think we all found it, simultaneously,an eye-openingand a very frustrating experience.I sat in this large negotiation hall,at one point, for three or four hours,without hearing the word &quot;oceans&quot; one time.It really wasn&#39;t on the radar screen.The nations that brought it upwhen we had the speeches of the national leaders —it tended to be the leaders of the small island states,the low-lying island states.And by this weird quirkof alphabetical order of the nations,a lot of the low-lying states,like Kiribati and Nauru,they were seated at the very end of these immensely long rows.You know, they were marginalizedin the negotiation room.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:问题之一就是选择正确的目标。我们还不清楚我们的目标是什么。如果没有清晰的目标，我们怎么去搞明白我们应如何解决问题？现在，大家已经听说“2摄氏度”：也就是说我们不应该让气温上升超过2摄氏度。但在这个数字的背后并没有很充分的科学道理。我们也谈到在大气层中二氧化碳的集聚浓度问题。它应该是450ppm？或是400ppm？（注：ppm即百万分之，这里用作浓度计量单位）在那个数字背后也没有很多的科学道理。在这些数字背后的大多数科学道理，这些潜在的目标，依据的是陆地上的研究。而且我会说，对那些研究海洋并且思索着设定什么样的目标的人来说，我们会辩驳说，这些数据必须要更低。大家知道，从海洋的视角来看，450ppm未免太高了。现在有非常显著的证据表明，这个浓度应该是350ppm。我们当前大气层里二氧化碳的浓度是390ppm。我们并不打算及时踩刹车以停在450ppm，所以我们得接受二氧化碳浓度将冲过头的事实，并且正如我们将要进行的讨论必须集中在这个“头”究竟过了多少，我们如何能够让它降低到350。
en:One of the problemsis coming up with the right target.It&#39;s not clear what the target should be.And how can you figure out how to fix somethingif you don&#39;t have a clear target?Now, you&#39;ve heard about &quot;two degrees&quot;:that we should limit temperature rise to no more than two degrees.But there&#39;s not a lot of science behind that number.We&#39;ve also talked aboutconcentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.Should it be 450? Should it be 400?There&#39;s not a lot of science behind that one either.Most of the science that is behind these numbers,these potential targets,is based on studies on land.And I would say, for the people that work in the oceanand think about what the targets should be,we would argue that they must be much lower.You know, from an oceanic perspective,450 is way too high.Now there&#39;s compelling evidencethat it really needs to be 350.We are, right now, at 390 parts per millionof CO2 in the atmosphere.We&#39;re not going to put the brakes on in time to stop at 450,so we&#39;ve got to accept we&#39;re going to do an overshoot,and the discussion as we go forwardhas to focus on how far the overshoot goesand what&#39;s the pathway back to 350.
时间： 2:49
zh-cn:那么，为什么这个事情如此复杂？我们为什么不能对这些事知之更深呢？嗯，问题就在于在气候系统中存在非常复杂的动力源。所有种类的自然力都能导致气候的变化。这里有大气—海洋交互作用。就在加拉帕戈斯群岛，我们被厄尔尼诺和拉尼娜现象困扰。但是当发生大型厄尔尼诺现象时，整个地球都会变暖。火山将气溶胶喷射进大气层。那会改变我们的气候。海洋包含了这个星球上大部分的可交换热量。所以，任何事情，只要它影响了海洋表面水层和深海水层的混合它就会改变海洋。而且我们知道，随着时间的变化，太阳能的输出并不恒定。因此这些都是影响气候变化的自然因素。然后，我们又有了人类诱发的影响气候变化的因素。我们正在改变地表的某些特征，比如反射率。我们把自己制造的气溶胶发射到大气层里，我们也排放痕量（即微量）气体，不仅仅是二氧化碳——包括甲烷，臭氧，硫和氮氧化物。
en:Now, why is this so complicated?Why don&#39;t we know some of these things a little bit better?Well, the problem is thatwe&#39;ve got very complicated forces in the climate system.There&#39;s all kinds of natural causes of climate change.There&#39;s air-sea interactions.Here in Galapagos,we&#39;re affected by El Ninos and La Nina.But the entire planet warms up when there&#39;s a big El Nino.Volcanoes eject aerosols into the atmosphere.That changes our climate.The ocean contains most of the exchangeable heat on the planet.So anything that influenceshow ocean surface waters mix with the deep waterchanges the ocean of the planet.And we know the solar output&#39;s not constant through time.So those are all natural causes of climate change.And then we have the human-induced causesof climate change as well.We&#39;re changing the characteristics of the surface of the land,the reflectivity.We inject our own aerosols into the atmosphere,and we have trace gases, and not just carbon dioxide —it&#39;s methane, ozone,oxides of sulfur and nitrogen.
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:所以，这就是事实。这听起来是很简单的问题。是人类活动制造的二氧化碳造成了全球变暖么？要回答这个问题，并对二氧化碳进行一个明确的归属，你还必须了解一些造成变化的所有这些其它的媒介。不过事实上，就这些而言我们懂得够多了。大家知道，数以千计的科学家致力于研究所有这些人为因素和自然因素。我们也已经搞明白了，并且可以说，“是的，目前二氧化碳正在导致这个星球变暖。”目前我们有很多办法来研究自然环境的变化。下面我将给大家展示一些案例。
en:So here&#39;s the thing. It sounds like a simple question.Is CO2 produced by man&#39;s activitiescausing the planet to warm up?But to answer that question,to make a clear attribution to carbon dioxide,you have to know something aboutall of these other agents of change.But the fact is we do know a lot about all of those things.You know, thousands of scientistshave been working on understandingall of these man-made causesand the natural causes.And we&#39;ve got it worked out, and we can say,&quot;Yes, CO2 is causing the planet to warm up now.&quot;Now, we have many ways to study natural variability.I&#39;ll show you a few examples of this now.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:这是一艘船，我近三个月来都乘着它待在南极地带。这是一艘科学钻探船。我们不时地会乘它外出几个月，到海床上钻探，回收沉积物，就是那些能告诉我们气候变化的沉积物，是的。要了解我们的“温室未来”的方法之一就是及时钻探到二氧化碳浓度是现在两倍的最近的那个年代。那么，这就是我们用这条船做的事情。这曾是——这是南极圈的南面。它看起来简直就是热带。有一天大海很平静，阳光也很温和，这也是我为什么能够下船的原因。大多数时间它都像这个样子。海浪高达50英尺，大多数航程能达到40海里甚至高达70到80海里。
en:This is the ship that I spent the last three months on in the Antarctic.It&#39;s a scientific drilling vessel.We go out for months at a time and drill into the sea bedto recover sedimentsthat tell us stories of climate change, right.Like one of the ways to understand our greenhouse futureis to drill down in timeto the last periodwhere we had CO2 double what it is today.And so that&#39;s what we&#39;ve done with this ship.This was — this is south of the Antarctic Circle.It looks downright tropical there.One day where we had calm seas and sun,which was the reason I could get off the ship.Most of the time it looked like this.We had a waves up to 50 ft.and winds averagingabout 40 knots for most of the voyageand up to 70 or 80 knots.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:所以那趟旅行就结束了，眼下我也不能给大家展示太多结果，不过我们会在一年多后回来，到我参与的另一个钻探旅程中。这个团队由罗斯鲍威尔和蒂姆奈什领导。这是ANDRILL项目。然后我们在世界上最大的浮冰层上打出了第一个钻孔。这是一件疯狂的事情，这个大型钻机裹着一条毯子用来给所有人保暖，而我们在零下40度进行钻探。我们在罗斯海钻探过。那就是罗斯海冰架。所以，这个相当于阿拉斯加大小的巨型浮冰层来自于西南极洲。西南极洲就是南极洲的一部分，这部分的冰层着陆在深达2000米的海床上面。因此这块冰层一部分是浮动的，而且它暴露在海洋中，接受着海洋热能。
en:So that trip just ended,and I can&#39;t show you too many results from that right now,but we&#39;ll go back one more year,to another drilling expedition I&#39;ve been involved in.This was led by Ross Powell and Tim Naish.It&#39;s the ANDRILL project.And we made the very first bore holethrough the largest floating ice shelf on the planet.This is a crazy thing, this big drill rig wrapped in a blanketto keep everybody warm,drilling at temperatures of minus 40.And we drilled in the Ross Sea.That&#39;s the Ross Sea Ice Shelf on the right there.So, this huge floating ice shelfthe size of Alaskacomes from West Antarctica.Now, West Antarctica is the part of the continentwhere the ice is grounded on sea flooras much as 2,000 meters deep.So that ice sheet is partly floating,and it&#39;s exposed to the ocean, to the ocean heat.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:这就是我们所担心的那部分南极洲。因为它一部分是浮动的，你能够想像，海平面上升一点，这块冰就脱离海床了，然后它就会碎裂，飘向北方。当这块冰融化，海平面会上升6米。因此我们进行“回溯”钻探，看看这种事情多久发生一次，以及冰层融化的有多快。左边是动画。我们钻入了浮冰层一百米，然后通过了900米的水层，然后到达1300米进入海床。因此这是有史以来钻探的最深的地质钻孔。
en:This is the part of Antarctica that we worry about.Because it&#39;s partly floating, you can imagine,is sea level rises a little bit,the ice lifts off the bed, and then it can break off and float north.When that ice melts, sea level rises by six meters.So we drill back in time to see how often that&#39;s happened,and exactly how fast that ice can melt.Here&#39;s the cartoon on the left there.We drilled through a hundred meters of floating ice shelfthen through 900 meters of waterand then 1,300 meters into the sea floor.So it&#39;s the deepest geological bore hole ever drilled.
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:营建这个工程花了大约10年左右。这就是我们所发现的。目前有40位科学家为这个项目忙碌，他们在开展一切真正复杂而且昂贵的分析。不过大家知道，能够把事情解释得最好的往往是这最简单的视觉描述。你要知道，我们在核心样本中自然而然地发现了这些。我们在沉积物中看到了像这样的交替出现的痕迹—砾石、鹅卵石、还有一些沙子。这就是在深海中的物质。这些只能被冰块带到那里。所以我们知道它上面有冰层。然后沉积物就像这样交替出现。这绝对是漂亮的艺术品。这个沉积物百分之百是由微型植物的外壳构成的。这些植物需要阳光，所以当我们发现这沉积物时，我们知道原来它上面本没有冰。我们在开放水域和冰层覆盖的水域中看到大约35次这些砾石和植物沉积物的交替变化。
en:It took about 10 years to put this project together.And here&#39;s what we found.Now, there&#39;s 40 scientists working on this project,and people are doing all kinds of really complicatedand expensive analyses.But it turns out, you know, the thing that told the best storywas this simple visual description.You know, we saw this in the core samples as they came up.We saw these alternationsbetween sediments that look like this —there&#39;s gravel and cobbles in thereand a bunch of sand.That&#39;s the kind of material in the deep sea.It can only get there if it&#39;s carried out by ice.So we know there&#39;s an ice shelf overhead.And that alternates with a sediment that looks like this.This is absolutely beautiful stuff.This sediment is 100 percent made upof the shells of microscopic plants.And these plants need sunlight,so we know when we find that sedimentthere&#39;s no ice overhead.And we saw about 35 alternationsbetween open water and ice-covered water,between gravels and these plant sediments.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:因此这就意味着，它告诉我们罗斯海地区，这块冰盖，融化后再重生了大约35次。这些发生于近400万年。这完全出人意料。没人能想象得到西南极洲冰盖曾经如此活跃。实际上，我们多年的认知就是，“冰层在百万甚至千万年前就形成了，它从一开始就在那里。”现在我们知道了，在近代它融化并且重生，海平面时起时落，一次落差达6米。
en:So what that means is, what it tells usis that the Ross Sea region, this ice shelf,melted back and formed anewabout 35 times.And this is in the past four million years.This was completely unexpected.Nobody imagined that the West Antarctic Ice Sheetwas this dynamic.In fact, the lore for many years has been,&quot;The ice formed many tens of millions of years ago,and it&#39;s been there ever since.&quot;And now we know that in our recent pastit melted back and formed again,and sea level went up and down, six meters at a time.
时间： 8:08
zh-cn:什么原因导致其发生？呃，我们非常确信到达南极洲的太阳光量变化非常小，它由地球轨道上的自然环境变化引发。不过关键点是：你要知道，我们发现了另外一件事，那就是这个冰盖曾经越过一道槛，这个星球曾暖到一定程度——温度上升了1度到1度半——这星球变暖到它变得。。。变暖到冰层变得非常活跃非常容易融化。然后你们知道么？我们上个世纪实际的温度变化正好是那个量。所以我们中的很多人确信现在西南极洲，西南极洲冰盖正在开始融化。我们相信能够看到海平面上升，这个世纪末将上升1到2米。而且上升幅度有可能更大。对于像基里巴斯这样的国家来说，这是非常严重的后果。你要知道，它的平均海拔只是1米多一点点。
en:What caused it?Well, we&#39;re pretty sure that it&#39;s very small changesin the amount of sunlight reaching Antarctica,just caused by natural changes in the orbit of the Earth.But here&#39;s the key thing:you know, the other thing we found outis that the ice sheet passed a threshold,that the planet warmed up enough —and the number&#39;s about one degree to one and a half degrees Centigrade —the planet warmed up enough that it became ...that ice sheet became very dynamicand was very easily melted.And you know what?We&#39;ve actually changed the temperature in the last centuryjust the right amount.So many of us are convinced nowthat West Antarctica, the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, is starting to melt.We do expect to see a sea-level riseon the order of one to two meters by the end of this century.And it could be larger than that.This is a serious consequencefor nations like Kiribati,you know, where the average elevationis about a little over a meter above sea level.
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:好的，第二个故事发生在这里，加拉帕戈斯群岛。这是一块漂白的珊瑚，一块死于1982-83年厄尔尼诺现象的珊瑚礁。这个来自冠军群岛。这是海拔约1米高的Pavona clavus珊瑚礁。它已被藻类所覆盖。这就是目前所发生的。当这些生命凋谢，马上有机体会进入，并且覆盖它们，并在其表面生存。那么，当一块珊瑚礁被一次厄尔尼诺扼杀，就留下了不可磨灭的印记。你可以去研究珊瑚，搞明白这样的事情发生的有多频繁。上世纪80年代有一次（厄尔尼诺）我们返回加拉帕戈斯群岛并从那里的珊瑚礁顶采集珊瑚的核心，以便找出这样破坏性事件发生的有多频繁。正如你所知道的，1982到83年那次厄尔尼诺杀死了加拉帕戈斯群岛百分之九十五的珊瑚。随后，97到98年（那次厄尔尼诺）的死亡率也跟这次很接近。在“回溯”钻探了400年后我们发现，这些都是很独特的事件。我们以前没有见过这么大规模的死亡事件。因此近年来这些事件真是非常特别。因此他们要么不仅仅真的是“怪兽”厄尔尼诺，要么就是在全球变暖背景下发生的非常强大的厄尔尼诺。无论是哪种情况，对于加拉帕戈斯群岛的珊瑚来说都是个噩耗。
en:Okay, the second story takes place here in Galapagos.This is a bleached coral,coral that died during the 1982-&#39;83 El Nino.This is from Champion Island.It&#39;s about a meter tall Pavona clavus colony.And it&#39;s covered with algae. That&#39;s what happens.When these things die,immediately, organisms come inand encrust and live on that dead surface.And so, when a coral colony is killedby an El Nino event,it leaves this indelible record.You can go then and study coralsand figure out how often do you see this.So one of the things thought of in the &#39;80swas to go back and take coresof coral heads throughout the Galapagosand find out how often was there a devastating event.And just so you know, 1982-&#39;83,that El Nino killed 95 percentof all the corals here in Galapagos.Then there was similar mortality in &#39;97-&#39;98.And what we foundafter drilling back in time two to 400 yearswas that these were unique events.We saw no other mass mortality events.So these events in our recent past really are unique.So they&#39;re either just truly monster El Ninos,or they&#39;re just very strong El Ninosthat occurred against a backdrop of global warming.Either case, it&#39;s bad newsfor the corals of the Galapagos Islands.
时间：10:23
zh-cn:这就是我们如何在珊瑚礁取样的。这实际上是东部群岛。看看这个怪物。这块珊瑚有8米高。它已经生长了大约600年。现在，西尔维娅厄尔给我展示的同样是这块珊瑚。她与约翰劳瑞特在这里潜水——我想是1994年——并且采集了这个块状物并把它寄给了我。然后我们开始对它展开研究，我们明白我们可以通过分析这样一块珊瑚来得知古代海洋的温度。我们有一个钻石钻头。我们没有杀死这块珊瑚礁；我们只是从它顶部采集了一个内核样本。珊瑚的内核就像这些石灰石圆柱管。我们把这块材料拿回实验室并对它进行分析。你们可以在右边看到一些珊瑚内核。
en:Here&#39;s how we sample the corals.This is actually Easter Island. Look at this monster.This coral is eight meters tall, right.And it been growing for about 600 years.Now, Sylvia Earle turned me on to this exact same coral.And she was diving here with John Lauret — I think it was 1994 —and collected a little nugget and sent it to me.And we started working on it,and we figured out we could tell the temperature of the ancient oceanfrom analyzing a coral like this.So we have a diamond drill.We&#39;re not killing the colony; we&#39;re taking a small core sample out of the top.The core comes up as these cylindrical tubes of limestone.And that material then we take back to the lab and analyze it.You can see some of the coral cores there on the right.
时间：11:03
zh-cn:所以我们踏遍了东太平洋进行这种研究。同样我们也正在西太平洋开展研究。下面我们回到这里，加拉帕戈斯群岛。我们一直在这个乌尔维纳湾迷人的“高地”工作。这个地方1954年发生过地震，这块海洋中的平台从海中抬升得很快，目前它已经上升了约6到7米。因此现在你可以不湿鞋就可以走遍整块珊瑚礁。如果你登上那块地面，就像这个，这是一块祖父辈的珊瑚。它直径有11米，我们知道它从1584年就开始生长。想象一下。这块珊瑚在浅海中快乐地成长，直到1954年，发生了地震。
en:So we&#39;ve done that all over the Eastern Pacific.We&#39;re starting to do it in the Western Pacific as well.I&#39;ll take you back here to the Galapagos Islands.And we&#39;ve been working at this fascinating uplift here in Urbina Bay.That the place where,during an earthquake in 1954,this marine terrace was lifted upout of the ocean very quickly,and it was lifted up about six to seven meters.And so now you can walk through a coral reef without getting wet.If you go on the ground there, it looks like this,and this is the grandaddy coral.It&#39;s 11 meters in diameter,and we know that it started growingin the year 1584.Imagine that.And that coral was growing happily in those shallow waters,until 1954, when the earthquake happened.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:我们知道它从1584年开始生长的原因就是这些珊瑚拥有的生长带。当你切开这些珊瑚内核，把半面切片放在X光下，你会看到这些明和暗的带子。每一条都代表一年。我们知道这些珊瑚一年大约生长1.5厘米。于是我们就从上数到下。它们其他的属性还包括它们拥有这样神奇的化学构成。我们可以分析构成珊瑚礁的碳酸盐，此外还有其他一堆事情可以做。但在这个案例中，我们测量了不同的氧同位素。它们的比例能告诉我们水温。在这个例子中，我们用温度记录仪监测了加拉帕戈斯群岛这块珊瑚礁。所以我们就知道了珊瑚生长水域的温度。随后我们采集了一块珊瑚，并测量了这个比例，下面你就能看到，那些曲线完美吻合。
en:Now the reason we know it&#39;s 1584is that these corals have growth bands.When you cut them, slice those cores in half and x-ray them,you see these light and dark bands.Each one of those is a year.We know these corals grow about a centimeter and a half a year.And we just count on down to the bottom.Then their other attribute isthat they have this great chemistry.We can analyze the carbonatethat makes up the coral,and there&#39;s a whole bunch of things we can do.But in this case, we measured the different isotopes of oxygen.Their ratio tells us the water temperature.In this example here,we had monitored this reef in Galapagoswith temperature recorders,so we know the temperature of the water the coral&#39;s growing in.Then after we harvest a coral, we measure this ratio,and now you can see, those curves match perfectly.
时间：12:32
zh-cn:在这个案例中，在这些群岛，你知道，这些珊瑚是水中温度变化的记录仪，如同机器般精准。当然，我们的温度计只能让我们回溯50年左右。这些珊瑚却可以把我们带回成百上千年以前。所以，这就是我们所做的：我们汇集了很多不同的数据集。不仅仅我们这个团队；还有全世界可能30个从事这项工作的团队。我们取得这些仪器般精准或接近仪器般精准的、回溯了上百年的温度变化记录，并把它们汇总起来。这是一张合成图。这里有全套的数据曲线。
en:In this case, at these islands,you know, coralsare instrumental-quality recorders of change in the water.And of course, our thermometersonly take us back 50 years or so here.The coral can take us backhundreds and thousands of years.So, what we do:we&#39;ve merged a lot of different data sets.It&#39;s not just my group; there&#39;s maybe 30 groups worldwide doing this.But we get these instrumental- and near-instrumental-quality recordsof temperature change that go back hundreds of years,and we put them together.Here&#39;s a synthetic diagram.There&#39;s a whole family of curves here.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:发生了什么？我们看到的是这个星球近百年以来的温度变化。这儿有5到6种不同的破译方式。每一种方式都反映了从珊瑚上得来的数百条记录的输入。我们对冰核也采取这样的做法。我们对树木年轮也采取这样的做法。我们就是这样发现什么才是真正的自然环境以及上个世纪又是多么与众不同，对么？我选择了这个因为它很复杂而且很难理清楚。就像它本身一样毫无头绪。你可以看到那里有一些信号。某些记录显示它们的温度要比其他的低。某些显示了更显著的变化。不过它们都告诉了我们自然环境的变化是什么样的。某些是从北半球的大气层中来的；某些是从世界各地来的。
en:But what&#39;s happening: we&#39;re looking at the last thousand yearsof temperature on the planet.And there&#39;s five or six different compilations there,But each one of those compilations reflects inputfrom hundreds of these kinds of records from corals.We do similar things with ice cores.We work with tree rings.And that&#39;s how we discoverwhat is truly naturaland how different is the last century, right?And I chose this onebecause it&#39;s complicated and messy looking, right.This is as messy as it gets.You can see there&#39;s some signals there.Some of the recordsshow lower temperatures than others.Some of them show greater variability.But they all tell uswhat the natural variability is.Some of them are from the northern hemisphere;some are from the entire globe.
时间：13:56
zh-cn:我能说的是：近千年以来这个星球正在不断变冷，这才是自然的环境。它从1900年左右就开始冷却了。自然环境的变化是由太阳、厄尔尼诺造成的。一个世纪范围内，几十年范围内的变化，我们知道这个幅度；它约为五分之一到五分之二摄氏度。随后，我们就到了记录的最后，那条记录是黑色的。这是2009年的温度。你要知道，上个世纪以来，我们已经让全球上升了约一摄氏度。在我们的自然环境的记录中从没有过这样一个时代能够与上个世纪相提并论。你要知道，这就是我们的论据的力量，也就是说，我们确实改变了一些事情。
en:But here&#39;s what we can say:what&#39;s natural in the last thousand years is that the planet was cooling down.It was cooling downuntil about 1900 or so.And there is natural variabilitycaused by the Sun, caused by El Ninos.A century-scale, decadal-scale variability,and we know the magnitude;it&#39;s about two-tenths to four-tenths of a degree Centigrade.But then at the very end is wherewe have the instrumental record in black.And there&#39;s the temperature up there in 2009.You know, we&#39;ve warmed the globeabout a degree Centigrade in the last century,and there&#39;s nothingin the natural part of that recordthat resembles what we&#39;ve seen in the last century.You know, that&#39;s the strength of our argument,that we are doing something that&#39;s truly different.
时间：14:41
zh-cn:所以我就以一个海洋酸化的简短讨论来结束（今天的演讲）。我希望将它作为全球变化的一个组成部分来讨论，因为，即使你是一个固执的全球变暖怀疑论者，（我也经常跟那种团体进行沟通）你也不能否认二氧化碳正在被海洋吸收这个简单的事实。你要知道，我们通过化石燃料，通过水泥的生产向大气层排放了很多二氧化碳。眼下，大约三分之一的二氧化碳直接被海洋所吸收，对么？结果，这就让海洋的酸度更强。所以你不必就此展开争论。那就是现在正在发生的事情，它与全球变暖是非常不同的两件事情。它会导致很多后果。
en:So I&#39;ll close with a short discussionof ocean acidification.I like it as a component of global change to talk about,because, even if you are a hard-bitten global warming skeptic,and I talk to that community fairly often,you cannot denythe simple physicsof CO2 dissolving in the ocean.You know, we&#39;re pumping out lots of CO2 into the atmosphere,from fossil fuels, from cement production.Right now, about a third of that carbon dioxideis dissolving straight into the sea, right?And as it does so,it makes the ocean more acidic.So, you cannot argue with that.That is what&#39;s happening right now,and it&#39;s a very different issuethan the global warming issue.It has many consequences.
时间：15:28
zh-cn:对于碳酸盐的有机体来讲有很多不良后果。许多生物——包括植物和动物用碳酸钙来构筑它们的外壳。珊瑚礁的主要构筑材料也是碳酸钙。这种材料在酸性液体中更容易溶解。所以我们将看到的是生物将花费更多的代谢能量来构筑并维持他们的外壳。在某种程度上，此刻，若海洋持续吸收二氧化碳，那么这些物质实际上将开始溶解。在珊瑚礁上面，若那些形成主要构架的生物消失了，我们就会痛失海洋的生态多样性。不过不仅仅是碳酸盐制造者会受到影响。还有许多生理进程会受到海洋酸度的影响。许多酶和蛋白质参与的反应对海洋的酸度非常敏感。因此，所有这些——更旺盛的代谢需求，降低的繁殖成功率，呼吸作用和代谢过程的变化。你要知道，在受到目前片刻的影响后，我们能找到足够充分的生理原因来预测到这些变化。
en:There&#39;s consequences for carbonate organisms.There are many organismsthat build their shells out of calcium carbonate —plants and animals both.The main framework material of coral reefsis calcium carbonate.That material is more solublein acidic fluid.So one of the things we&#39;re seeingis organisms are havingto spend more metabolic energyto build and maintain their shells.At some point, as this transience,as this CO2 uptake in the ocean continues,that material&#39;s actually going to start to dissolve.And on coral reefs,where some of the main framework organisms disappear,we will see a major lossof marine biodiversity.But it&#39;s not just the carbonate producers that are affected.There&#39;s many physiological processesthat are influenced by the acidity of the ocean.So many reactions involving enzymes and proteinsare sensitive to the acid content of the ocean.So, all of these things —greater metabolic demands,reduced reproductive success,changes in respiration and metabolism.You know, these are things that we have good physiological reasonsto expect to see stressedcaused by this transience.
时间：16:42
zh-cn:因此我们发现了一些非常有趣的方法来跟踪数百万年前大气层中的二氧化碳水平。我们过去仅仅使用冰核，但是在这个案例中，我们要回溯2000万年。于是我们就采集了海底沉积物的样本，它告诉我们海洋中二氧化碳的浓度从而我们也知道了大气中二氧化碳的浓度。接下来的事情就是我们必须回溯大概1500万年去寻找一个二氧化碳浓度跟今天相近的年代。我们必须回溯大约3000万年去寻找一个二氧化碳浓度相当于今天的两倍的年代。现在，这意味着所有生活在海洋中的生物都在这个恒定的海洋中进化，而其中的二氧化碳浓度低于现在的浓度。这也是他们为什么没有能力去应对或适应海洋的快速酸化。目前这正在发生。
en:So we figured out some pretty interesting waysto track CO2 levels in the atmosphere,going back millions of years.We used to do it just with ice cores,but in this case, we&#39;re going back 20 million years.And we take samples of the sediment,and it tells us the CO2 level of the ocean,and therefore the CO2 level of the atmosphere.And here&#39;s the thing:you have to go back about 15 million yearsto find a time when CO2 levelswere about what they are today.You have to go back about 30 million yearsto find a time when CO2 levelswere double what they are today.Now, what that means isthat all of the organisms that live in the seahave evolved in this chemostatted ocean,with CO2 levels lower than they are today.That&#39;s the reason that they&#39;re not able to respond or adaptto this rapid acidificationthat&#39;s going on right now.
时间：17:34
zh-cn:所以，查理弗隆去年带着这个课题来到这里。“海洋酸化的前景可能是目前人类活动造成的二氧化碳排放所导致的所有可预见的后果中最严重的一种。”我认为他说的很靠谱，所以我会一直密切关注它。你要知道，我们绝对需要一些受保护的领域，但是看在海洋的份上，我们必须马上限制二氧化碳的排放。
en:So, Charlie Veroncame up with this statement last year:&quot;The prospect of ocean acidificationmay well be the most seriousof all of the predicted outcomesof anthropogenic CO2 release.&quot;And I think that may very well be true,so I&#39;ll close with this.You know, we do need the protected areas, absolutely,but for the sake of the oceans,we have to cap or limit CO2 emissionsas soon as possible.
时间：18:01
zh-cn:非常感谢！
en:Thank you very much.
时间：18:03
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
