时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在人类文明中，有很多关于未来的故事，也许正是这些故事激励我们前行。在一些故事中有些人努力去收集和利用所有事物。在另一些故事中，所有事物都濒临灭亡。
en:As a culture, we tell ourselves lots of storiesabout the future,and where we might move forward from this point.Some of those stories are thatsomebody is just going to sort everything out for us.Other stories are that everything is on the verge of unraveling.
时间： 0:27
zh-cn:但是我今天将带给你们一个不同的故事。与所有故事一样，它也有一个开头。在很长一段时间，我一直潜心于教育事业，教大家可持续性实用技能，比如在自家种菜，利用本地的材料建造房子，挖掘本地的能量源等等，这些都是为了帮助人们更好的承担责任。
en:But I want to tell you a different story here today.Like all stories, it has a beginning.My work, for a long time, has been involved in education,in teaching people practical skillsfor sustainability,teaching people how to take responsibilityfor growing some of their own food,how to build buildings using local materials,how to generate their own energy, and so on.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:我生活在爱尔兰，在那儿我建造了第一个稻草屋，和一些圆形建筑以及类似的。很多年来我的工作都集中在一个想法—可持续性，它意味着：着眼于全球经济增长模型，既监控着自身就有的东西，也监控着所产出排出的东西，然后我就开始接触并以长远的目光观察在实际中变化巨大的这一切。
en:I lived in Ireland, built the first straw-bale houses in Ireland,and some cob buildings and all this kind of thing.But all my work for many years was focusedaround the idea that sustainabilitymeans basically looking atthe globalized economic growth model,and moderating what comes in at one end,and moderating the outputs at the other end.And then I came into contact with a way of looking at thingswhich actually changed that profoundly.
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:为了介绍清楚，在这里我打算揭开一个当代伟大奇迹的发现。它是如此惊天动地，我想我还是先揭开它的面纱，并好好喘口气，然后再告诉大家比较合适。如果你们能帮我一把，那就完美了。（笑声）这儿有一升石油。
en:And in order to introduce you to that,I&#39;ve got something here that I&#39;m going to unveil,which is one of the great marvels of the modern age.And it&#39;s something so astounding and so astonishingthat I think maybe as I remove this clotha suitable gasp of amazement might be appropriate.If you could help me with that it would be fantastic.(Laughter)This is a liter of oil.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:这瓶油提炼取自上亿年前的地质，经过远古的阳光照射，它饱含的能量相当于5周的艰苦的体力劳动，也相当于35个壮劳力为你服务。我们可以用石油再加工成琳琅满目的新材料：药物，现代纺织料，笔记本电脑，还有其他不同的材料。石油给予我们的历史发展中所需的无法想象的能量循环。我们赖以生存的社区设计，经济学模型，旅游计划，甚至经济增长的观点，可能有些人会怀疑，假设我们将会永久持续使用石油。
en:This bottle of oil,distilled over a hundred million years of geological time,ancient sunlight,contains the energy equivalent of about five weekshard human manual labor —equivalent to about 35 strong peoplecoming round and working for you.We can turn it into a dazzling array of materials,medicine, modern clothing,laptops, a whole range of different things.It gives us an energy return that&#39;s unimaginable, historically.We&#39;ve based the design of our settlements,our business models, our transport plans,even the idea of economic growth, some would argue,on the assumption that we will have this in perpetuity.
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:如果我们退一步看，整个人类历史，我们所谓的石油时代，仅仅是历史的一小段，从我们发现这个特别的材料，到完全依赖石油。但现在当我们处在能源的顶峰，过去，我们的经济成功，个人能力和福利直接取决于我们消耗的石油的多少。到现在我们对石油的依赖正是我们的弱点。
en:Yet, when we take a step back,and look over the span of history,at what we might call the petroleum interval,it&#39;s a short period in historywhere we&#39;ve discovered this extraordinary material,and then based a whole way of life around it.But as we straddle the top of this energy mountain, at this stage,we move from a time where our economic success,our sense of individual prowess and well-beingis directly linked to how much of this we consume,to a time when actually our degree of oil dependencyis our degree of vulnerability.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:越来越清晰的表明：我们永远基于石油的事实是站不住脚的。我们每消耗4桶石油，却只能发现1桶。这个差距越来越大。事实是我们从石油中得到的能源正在减少。在1930年代，我们每个人可以从提炼石油中得到100单位的能源。这是空前的，历史上最多的，现在，能源利用值降低为11。就是为什么现在，石油萃取的新突破技术，新边疆的争夺如此激烈，不管是在Alberta地区，还是在海底。
en:And it&#39;s increasingly clear that wearen&#39;t going to be able to rely on the fact thatwe&#39;re going to have this at our disposal forever.For every four barrels of oil that we consume,we only discover one.And that gap continues to widen.There is also the fact that the amount of energythat we get back from the oil that we discover is falling.In the 1930s we got 100 units of energy backfor every one that we put in to extract it.Completely unprecedented, historically.Already that&#39;s fallen to about 11.And that&#39;s why, now,the new breakthroughs, the new frontiersin terms of oil extraction are scrambling about in Alberta,or at the bottom of the oceans.
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:世界上有98个石油生产国，但，其中65个已经超过了开采的峰值。世界平均开采早晚都会超过这个峰值，人们只是想知道什么时候发生。一个紧急例子是去年7月份发生的油价高峰。
en:There are 98 oil-producing nations in the world.But of those, 65 have already passed their peak.The moment when the world on average passes this peak,people wonder when that&#39;s going to happen.And there is an emerging casethat maybe that was what happened last Julywhen the oil prices were so high.
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:但人类的智慧，创造力、适应力使我们第一次到达了能源的顶峰，当我们不得不在能源低谷探索时，这种智慧、创造力和适应力却莫名其妙地突然神秘蒸发了？不是的。而是伴随这个想法的基础是基于一个现实的假设，我们已经达到了开采巅峰。
en:But are we to assume that the same brillianceand creativity and adaptabilitythat got us up to the top of that energy mountain in the first placeis somehow mysteriously going to evaporatewhen we have to design a creative way back down the other side?No. But the thinking that we have to come up withhas to be based on a realistic assessmentof where we are.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:面对气候变化时，也同样支持了这种转变方法。当我和气候学家讨论时，我注意到他们眼里与日俱增的恐惧，伴随着最近的更新数据，要比IPCC（联合国政府间气候变化专门委员会）讨论中的数据更有说服力，IPCC的结论是：我们可以预见2100年在最坏的情况下，北极冰川严重断裂。事实上，如果目前的趋势继续恶化，它将在5年或者10年内发生。如果北极永冻土中包含二氧化碳的3%，在全球变暖中释放，它将抵消我们所有为减少二氧化碳所做的努力，在未来的40年间防范难以捉摸的气候变化。除了我们深入实施紧急的二氧化碳减排，我们没有其他选择。
en:There is also the issue of climate change,is the other thing that underpins this transition approach.But the thing that I notice, as I talk to climate scientists,is the increasingly terrified look they have in their eyes,as the data that&#39;s coming in,which is far ahead of what the IPCC are talking about.So the IPCC saidthat we might see significant breakupof the arctic ice in 2100, in their worst case scenario.Actually, if current trends continue,it could all be gone in five or 10 years&#39; time.If just three percent of the carbon locked up in the arctic permafrostis released as the world warms,it would offset all the savings that we need to make,in carbon, over the next 40 years to avoid runaway climate change.We have no choice other than deep and urgent decarbonization.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:但我一直很感兴趣地思考故事可能是这样的：我们以后的几代人将会告诉我们。“后代们生活在山顶，忍受艰难，他们的遗产也很可怜。”我喜欢的方法之一是回首往事时人们通常这么说：在拥有便宜的汽油和化石燃料之前，人们依赖于他们的肌肉，动物肌肉中的能量，或者一些风能，一些水能。
en:But I&#39;m always very interested to think aboutwhat might the stories bethat the generations further down the slope from usare going to tell about us.&quot;The generation that lived at the top of the mountain,that partied so hard, and so abused its inheritance.&quot;And one of the ways I like to do thatis to look back at the stories people used to tellbefore we had cheap oil, before we had fossil fuels,and people relied on their own muscle, animal muscle energy,or a little bit of wind, little bit of water energy.
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:我们有“七联赛靴”的故事：一旦巨人穿上这样的靴子，每迈出一步就可以完成7联赛，或者21英里，对于没有这种功能靴子的人们来说，这是一种完全无法想象的旅程。
en:We had stories like &quot;The Seven-League Boots&quot;:the giant who had these boots, where, once you put them on,with every stride you could cover seven leagues, or 21 miles,a kind of travel completely unimaginableto people without that kind of energy at their disposal.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:还有神奇魔术锅的故事，如果你知道魔语，你可以让一个魔术锅不断地做出你想要的食物，当然你也不用动手。假如你记得其他咒语，就可以停止做燕麦粥。否则，整个城市将被温燕麦粥淹没。
en:Stories like The Magic Porridge Pot,where you had a pot where if you knew the magic words,this pot would just make as much food as you liked,without you having to do any work,provided you could remember the other magic word to stop it making porridge.Otherwise you&#39;d flood your entire town with warm porridge.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:还有一个&quot;鞋匠和小矮人&quot;的故事。鞋匠晚上没做完鞋就睡着了，当他早上睡醒的时候，却发现所有的鞋子都神奇地做好了。对人类来说，这真是不可思议。
en:There is the story of &quot;The Elves and the Shoemaker.&quot;The people who make shoes go to sleep, wake up in the morning,and all the shoes are magically made for them.It&#39;s something that was unimaginable to people then.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:现在，有Ryanair和Easyjet飞机形式的七联赛靴。也有类似神奇魔术锅（格林童话神奇锅）的Walmart和Tesco大型超市。还有就好比小矮人一样的中国。但是我们不欢迎这些令人吃惊的正发生的事情。
en:Now we have the seven-league bootsin the form of Ryanair and Easyjet.We have the magic porridge potin the form of Walmart and Tesco.And we have the elves in the form of China.But we don&#39;t appreciate what an astonishingthing that has been.
时间： 6:31
zh-cn:现在我们要讲的正是我们期盼的关于前途的问题。我认为，有4个方向。通常的商业想法是未来仅仅是现在的延续，甚至是更好。但回顾去年，我认为那个想法正在成为一个问题。从气候变化来看，事实上这有点行不通。
en:And what are the stories that we tell ourselves now,as we look forward about where we&#39;re going to go.And I would argue that there are four. There is the idea of business as usual,that the future will be like the present, just more of it.But as we&#39;ve seen over the last year, I think that&#39;s an ideathat is increasingly coming into question.And in terms of climate change,is something that is not actually feasible.
时间： 6:52
zh-cn:还有一个碰壁的想法，所有东西都变得很脆弱，即将瓦解，全部崩溃。在一些地方，这种观点比较普遍。第三种想法是：科技可以解决所有问题。科技可以带领我们完全客服困难。
en:There is the idea of hitting the wall,that actually somehow everything is so fragilethat it might just all unravel and collapse.This is a popular story in some places.The third story is the idea that technology can solve everything,that technology can somehow get us through this completely.
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:我认为，这种观点在TED讨论者中比较普遍，我们发明一种方法走出严峻的经济和能源危机，一种知识经济运动可以远离能源束缚。有观点是我们发现一些极好的新能源，使得我们可以对能源安全问题搁置一边，我们可以轻松地迈入到一个全新的可再生能源的世界。
en:And it&#39;s an idea that I think is very prevalent at these TED Talks,the idea that we can invent our way out of a profoundeconomic and energy crisis,that a move to a knowledge economycan somehow neatly sidestep those energy constraints,the idea that we&#39;ll discover some fabulous new source of energythat will mean we can sweep all concernsabout energy security to one side,the idea that we can step off neatlyonto a completely renewable world.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:但世界并非第二人生（Second Life虚拟世界网络）。我们不能凭简单地点击鼠标，然后创造出了新大陆和新能源体系。当我们坐在这里，彼此自由交流思想的时候，仍然有人在挖煤，目的是提取矿物质，为一些服务提供能量，使它们运转。当我们早上坐下来，查收我们邮件的时候，早餐正从很远地方运来，这通常影响了当地的，自给自足，更具恢复性的餐饮系统，这种餐饮系统长久以来就有，而我们却有效低估，甚至让这种餐饮系统消失。
en:But the world isn&#39;t Second Life.We can&#39;t create new land and new energy systems at the click of a mouse.And as we sit, exchanging free ideas with each other,there are still people mining coalin order to power the servers, extracting the mineralsto make all of those things.The breakfast that we eat as we sit downto check our email in the morningis still transported at great distances,usually at the expense of the local, more resilientfood systems that would have supplied that in the past,which we&#39;ve so effectively devalued and dismantled.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:我们可以惊人地去创造，但我们生存在受现实约束的世界中。能源和科技不是同一个事物。我潜心于转变响应的积极措施。这是当前关于石油开采峰值和气候变化的巨大挑战，以及创造性和适应性和我们迫切所需的想象力的响应。转变响应以惊人的速度传播。它具有多种特征，
en:We can be astonishingly inventive and creative.But we also live in a world with very real constraints and demands.Energy and technology are not the same thing.What I&#39;m involved with is the transition response.And this is really about looking the challengesof peak oil and climate change square in the face,and responding with a creativity and an adaptabilityand an imagination that we really need.It&#39;s something which has spread incredibly fast.And it is something which has several characteristics.
时间： 8:33
zh-cn:像病毒一样，好似在雷达下的快速传播。它是开源的。每个潜心于转变发展的人，在工作中传递。自我组织，没有庞大的中央组织去推动；人们仅仅有了一个想法并且运行，贯彻执行。集中解决问题。关注人们能够做什么，设身处地的进行转变响应。就不同地方和规模都会有出入。
en:It&#39;s viral. It seems to spread under the radar very, very quickly.It&#39;s open source. It&#39;s something which everybody who&#39;s involved with itdevelops and passes on as they work with it.It&#39;s self-organizing. There is no great central organizationthat pushes this; people just pick up an ideaand they run with it, and they implement it where they are.It&#39;s solutions-focused. It&#39;s very much looking at what people can dowhere they are, to respond to this.It&#39;s sensitive to place and to scale.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:转变也就完全不同。智利的转变小组，美国的转变小组，这里的转变小组，你去的每个地方，大家的看法都不一样。从错误中可以学习到很多。这转变很有历史影响。它创造一种历史性的机会让人们去做不同寻常的事情。在此过程中的确充满乐趣。身体力行的人们感到无限乐趣，人们也乐于联系在一起做这些转变。支撑上述观点的是可恢复性理论。
en:Transitional is completely different.Transition groups in Chile, transition groups in the U.S., transition groups here,what they&#39;re doing looks very different in every place that you go to.It learns very much from its mistakes.And it feels historic. It tries to create a sensethat this is a historic opportunityto do something really extraordinary.And it&#39;s a process which is really joyful.People have a huge amount of fun doing this,reconnecting with other people as they do it.One of the things that underpins it is this idea of resilience.
时间： 9:30
zh-cn:我认为，在多方面，这种可恢复性理论比可持续理论更有用。可恢复性理论源于生态学，是关于系统，安居置业，如何抵挡外部冲击。当他们遇到外部冲击时，他们不只是分解，或者崩溃。我认为可恢复性理论比可持续理论更有用，正如我所说。
en:And I think, in many ways, the idea of resilienceis a more useful concept than the idea of sustainability.The idea of resilience comes from the study of ecology.And it&#39;s really about how systems,settlements, withstand shock from the outside.When they encounter shock from the outsidethat they don&#39;t just unravel and fall to pieces.And I think it&#39;s a more useful concept than sustainability, as I said.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:在任何时候，当超市只有2，3天的食物储备时，通常可持续理论关注于冰箱的能效，和包裹生菜的包装。从可恢复性理论角度看，我们从根本上质疑我们竟依赖于这种如此脆弱的超市消费模式。可恢复性理论可以更广泛地运作：它是基于我们所要转变的模块化建设，和我们怎样组织生产自给自足必需品的转变社区建立。
en:When our supermarkets have only two or three days&#39; worth of food in themat any one time, often sustainability tends to focus onthe energy efficiency of the freezersand on the packaging that the lettuces are wrapped up in.Looking through the lens of resilience,we really question how we&#39;ve let ourselves get into a situationthat&#39;s so vulnerable.Resilience runs much deeper:it&#39;s about building modularity into what we do,building surge breakers into how we organize the basic things that support us.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:这是布里斯托尔市Bristol和湖区District的照片，1897年，农业菜园市场协会Market Gardeners Association成立。当时，布里斯托尔市Bristol就在这个附近，周围是商业市场菜园，提供给城市所需的大量食物，也创造很多就业机会，等等。这就是可恢复性的一个例子，希望你们喜欢，我们现在只能带着羡慕的眼光回首那时。
en:This is a photograph of the Bristol and DistrictMarket Gardeners Association, in 1897.This is at a time when the city of Bristol,which is quite close to here,was surrounded by commercial market gardens,which provided a significant amount of the foodthat was consumed in the town, and created a lot of employment for people, as well.There was a degree of resilience, if you like, at that time,which we can now only look back on with envy.
时间：10:48
zh-cn:因此，这个转变的想法如何运作？大体上有很多人为这个想法而兴奋不已。他们使用我们开发的一些工具，他们开始一个“awareness-raising提高认识”的计划，在城镇中测试实际转变运作情况。他们观看电影，开展讨论等等。这个转变过程有趣而富有创造力，并增长见识。然后他们开始组建工作组，分别负责不同的方面，因此基于此，形成了很多转变项目，然后转变项目本身开始运行和完善。
en:So how does this transition idea work?So basically, you have a group of people who are excited by the idea.They pick up some of the tools that we&#39;ve developed.They start to run an awareness-raising programlooking at how this might actually work in the town.They show films, they give talks, and so on.It&#39;s a process which is playful and creativeand informative.Then they start to form working groups, looking at different aspects of this,and then from that, there emerge a whole lot of projectswhich then the transition project itselfstarts to support and enable.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:在爱尔兰我开始了相关的工作，爱尔兰是我教学的地方，也是工作开展的地方。目前已经有超过200个正式的转变项目。在我们所谓的酝酿阶段，有过千的工作人员。他们正在酝酿方案将来的可行性。实际上大部分人做了大量的的工作。但他们实际上做什么呢？大家知道，这是一个新颖的想法，但他们付诸的实际情况如何？
en:So it started out with some work I was involved in in Ireland,where I was teaching, and has since spread.There are now over 200 formal transition projects.And there are thousands of others who are at what we call the mulling stage.They are mulling whether they&#39;re going to take it further.And actually a lot of them are doing huge amounts of stuff.But what do they actually do? You know, it&#39;s a kind of nice idea,but what do they actually do on the ground?
时间：11:41
zh-cn:因此，我认为重申这一点非常重要，实际上大家知道，转变不是一个自身就能完成所有工作。我们需要哥本哈根大会的国际立法等等。我们需要得到国内的响应，本地政府的响应。但所有事情都会变得非常简单，如果我们有活跃的社区以及最新的想法交流，然后领导转变响应，使得相关政策通过候选立法，在接下来的5到10年。
en:Well, I think it&#39;s really important to make the point that actuallyyou know, this isn&#39;t something which is going to do everything on its own.We need international legislation from Copenhagen and so on.We need national responses. We need local government responses.But all of those things are going to be much easierif we have communities that are vibrant and coming up with ideasand leading from the front, making unelectable policies electable,over the next 5 to 10 years.
时间：12:06
zh-cn:自然而然的就有一些当地的食物项目，例如社区团体支持的农业计划，城乡食物计划，当地食物目录等等。目前很多地方都开始建立自己的能源工厂，社区自建能源工厂，由社区独立投资，开始建立可再生能源基础设施，这正是我们需要的。在许多地方，学校也参与进来。位于迪恩森林国家公园附近的Newent市：人们在学校建起大型保温棚，孩子们学习如何种植食物。提倡再循环利用，例如菜园共享，使得没有菜园的人们可以在被人闲置的菜园地方，种植食物。在广阔的城乡种植经济树木。同时开始推广可替换的流通货币的想法。
en:Some of the things that emerge from it are local food projects,like community-supported agriculture schemes,urban food production, creating local food directories, and so on.A lot of places now are starting to set up their own energy companies,community-owned energy companies,where the community can invest money into itself,to start putting in placethe kind of renewable energy infrastructure that we need.A lot of places are working with their local schools.Newent in the Forest of Dean: big polytunnel they built for the school;the kids are learning how to grow food.Promoting recycling, things like garden-share,that matches up people who don&#39;t have a gardenwho would like to grow food, with people who have gardens they aren&#39;t using anymore.Planting productive trees throughout urban spaces.And also starting to play around with the idea ofalternative currencies.
时间：12:48
zh-cn:这是在苏塞克斯Sussex的刘易斯市Lewes最近投放上市的刘易斯英镑，它只能在当地流通，成为了当地循环经济的开始。而你在其他地方用这种货币，它就一文不值了。但实际上这种循环经济模式在当地非常有效。
en:This is Lewes in Sussex,who have recently launched the Lewes Pound,a currency that you can only spend within the town,as a way of starting to cycle money within the local economy.You take it anywhere else, it&#39;s not worth anything.But actually within the town you start to create these economiccycles much more effectively.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:他们做的另一件事，我们称之为节约能源计划，是为城镇而开发的另一个B计划。但我们大部分当地政府开始着手未来5年，10年，15年到20年计划时，还都理所当然地认为会有更多石油能源，更多汽车，更多房屋，更多工作，更多增长等等。如果情况不是那样，会怎样呢？我们又该如何接受现实中想到的事情真的很有可能来养活大家？我的一个朋友说：生活是由一系列你完全没有准备好的事情组成的。那也正是我亲身经历的转变，在3年前，它仅仅是一个想法，这转变已经快速风靡世界。这也吸引了政府议员，这个国家（英国）能源部长埃德米利班德Ed Miliband的兴趣，我们邀请他参加我们最近的会议作为一个演讲听众。他（笑声）（掌声）并从此成为整个转变想法的极力提倡者。
en:Another thing that they do is what we call an energy descent plan,which is basically to develop a plan B for the town.Most of our local authorities, when they sit down to planfor the next five, 10, 15, 20 years of a community,still start by assuming that there will be more energy,more cars, more housing,more jobs, more growth, and so on.What does it look like if that&#39;s not the case? And how can we embrace thatand actually come up with something that was actually more likelyto sustain everybody?As a friend of mine says, &quot;Life is a series of things you&#39;re not quite ready for.&quot;And that&#39;s certainly been my experience with transition.From three years ago, it just being an idea,this has become something that has virally swept around the world.We&#39;re getting a lot of interest from government. Ed Miliband,the energy minister of this country, was invited to come to our recent conferenceas a keynote listener.Which he did —(Laughter)(Applause) —and has since become a great advocate of the whole idea.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:这个国家目前有两个当地政府声明它们要转变为不依赖石油的当地政府，莱斯特郡Leicestershiere 和萨默塞特郡Somerset。在斯特劳德市Stroud转变组真的为当地政府起草了食物计划。委员会主席说，“如果我们没有转变斯特劳德市Transition Stround，我们也得首次创新所有社区的基础设施。”正如我们看到的转变响应的蔓延，国家的转变提上议程。
en:There are now two local authorities in this countrywho have declared themselves transitional local authorities,Leicestershire and Somerset. And in Stroud,the transition group there, in effect, wrote the local government&#39;s food plan.And the head of the council said,&quot;If we didn&#39;t have Transition Stroud, we would have to inventall of that community infrastructure for the first time.&quot;As we see the spread of it, we see national hubs emerging.
时间：14:25
zh-cn:在苏格兰Scotland,Scottish苏格兰政府气候变化基金已投资转变苏格兰Transition Scotland作为国家资助项目发展。正如大家所见，目前所有地方都开展了。不过，转变的关键是我们现在没有改变所有，但很多已经不可避免的改变了，我们所做的就是创造性的开展工作，提出正确的问题。
en:In Scotland, the Scottish government&#39;s climate change fundhas funded Transition Scotlandas a national organization supporting the spread of this.And we see it all over the place as well now.But the key to transition is thinking not that we have to change everything now,but that things are already inevitably changing,and what we need to do is to work creatively with that,based on asking the right questions.
时间：14:48
zh-cn:我想我应该返回到这个想法故事的结尾。因为我认为这些故事比较生动和重要。我们自己谈论着实际中的故事，除这里分享的，我们还缺乏大量故事来指导我们创新的转变。关键的一点是人们把他们做的这种转变创新的故事用来分享。例如，社区可以自行生产21英镑纸币，把学校的汽车停车场转变为一个食物菜园地，建立自己能源工厂的社区等等的故事。对我来说，最近一个精彩的故事是奥巴马夫妇在白宫南草坪开辟蔬菜园地。因为上次这么做还要提起埃莉诺罗斯福Eleanor Roosevelt，它引领了全美2千万蔬菜菜园的兴建。
en:I think I&#39;d like to just return at the endto the idea of stories.Because I think stories are vital here.And actually the stories that we tell ourselves,we have a huge dearth of stories about how to move forward creatively from here.And one of the key things that transition doesis to pull those stories out of what people are doing.Stories about the community that&#39;s producedits own 21 pound note, for example,the school that&#39;s turned its car park into a food garden,the community that&#39;s founded its own energy company.And for me, one of the great stories recentlywas the Obamas digging up the south lawn of the White Houseto create a vegetable garden. Because the last time that was done,when Eleanor Roosevelt did it,it led to the creation of 20 million vegetable gardens across the United States.
时间：15:31
zh-cn:所以我留给你们的问题是，为了你们社区繁荣，考虑所需的方方面面的事情，如何实施这种转变响应来大幅降低二氧化碳排放，又同时建立可恢复性的繁荣？
en:So the question I&#39;d like to leave you with, really,is — for all aspects of the things that your community needsin order to thrive,how can it be done in such a waythat drastically reduces its carbon emissions,while also building resilience?
时间：15:46
zh-cn:从我个人而言，我非常的感谢我所经历过的廉价石油年代。我曾非常幸运，我们曾非常幸运。让我们为石油所提供给我们的一切感到荣幸，但从现在起要转变改进。因为如果我们依然依靠石油，继续这样的消耗支撑着我们的选择权，我们所要面对的未来会越加难以驾驭。由热爱石油，到远离石油和石油年代供给给我们的一切，我们将开创一个更具有可恢复性的，更有活力的世界，我们将发现人与人彼此间更加健康，更加优秀，和联系的更加紧密。非常感谢。（掌声）
en:Personally, I feel enormously gratefulto have lived through the age of cheap oil.I&#39;ve been astonishingly lucky, we&#39;ve been astonishingly lucky.But let us honor what it has bought us,and move forward from this point.Because if we cling to it, and continue to assumethat it can underpin our choices,the future that it presents to us is one which is really unmanageable.And by loving and leaving all that oil has done for us,and that the Oil Age has done for us,we are able to then begin the creationof a world which is more resilient,more nourishing,and in which, we find ourselves fitter, more skilledand more connected to each other.Thank you very much.(Applause)
