时间： 0:11
zh-cn:网络上有我的传记说我是个设计传教士。说的有点儿崇高，其实我更像是普通的路人。我花大量的时间在城市里，寻找设计元素，并在公共场所里研究设计。我在一年里拍了大约5000多张照片，我想我可以编辑一下这些照片，从中找出一些大家可能感兴趣的照片给大家看一下。我有三项原则：第一，我想我谈论的是大家可以真正接触到的设计是免费的设计，不是大家接触不到的，我们的竞争者想当然地认为的那种设计而是你可以在大街上找到的东西，免费的东西，所有人都能用的东西，可能包含一些重要信息的东西。
en:I was listed on the online biographythat said I was a design missionary.That&#39;s a bit lofty; I&#39;m really moreof something like a street walker.I spend a lot of time in urban areaslooking for design,and studying design in the public sector.I take about 5,000 photographs a year,and I thought that I would edit from these,and try to come up with some imagesthat might be appropriate and interesting to you.And I used three criteria:the first was, I thought I&#39;d talk aboutreal design within reach,design that&#39;s free, not design not quite within reach,as we&#39;re fondly known by our competition and competitors,but stuff that you can find on the streets, stuff that was free,stuff that was available to all people,and stuff that probably contains some other important messages.
时间： 0:59
zh-cn:给大家举一个里约热内卢人行道的例子。这是在50年代很普通的一个设计。它的流动性很好，形式很自然，与巴西的文化非常一致—我认为好的设计会为文化增添内容。（这个设计）完全与旧金山或纽约的风格不同。但我认为这些是我的信息高速公路：我生活的世界更像是个模拟世界。在那里交通方式主要是步行，人们之间互相影响并进行多种方式的交流。在那里我认为我们脚下的那些简单的东西对我们来说具有非常重要的意义。
en:I&#39;ll use these sidewalks in Rio as an example.A very common public design done in the &#39;50s.It&#39;s got a nice kind of flowing, organic form,very consistent with the Brazilian culture —I think good design adds to culture.Wholly inconsistent with San Francisco or New York.But I think these are my sort of information highways:I live in much more of an analog world,where pedestrian traffic andinteraction and diversity exchange,and where I think the simple things under our feethave a great amount of meaning to us.
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:我是如何在这个行业上起步的呢？我做了十年的陶瓷设计。很喜欢实用形式—我们每天使用的简单的东西，在形式使用颜色和层面的简单组合。这使我开了一家名为“触手可及的设计”（Design Within Reach)公司。公司处理简单的形式，吸引好的设计师，并推销设计师的个性和品质。这样做效果还不错。进入这个行业几年后，我花费了大量的时间在欧洲旅游，寻找设计艺术。
en:How did I get started in this business?I was a ceramic designer for about 10 years,and just loved utilitarian form —simple things that we use every day,little compositions of color and surface on form.This led me to starting a company called Design Within Reach,a company dealing with simple forms,making good designers available to us,and also selling the personalities and character of the designersas well, and it seems to have worked.A couple of years into the process,I spent a lot of time in Europe traveling around, looking for design.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:在阿姆斯特丹我仿佛猛然醒过来了我在那里正打算去些设计商店，加入到设计师的人群中。我发现许多东西，看起来几乎是一样的。全球化的影响已经深入到了我们设计界。我们知道世界各地有很多设计正在进行，但找到能折射出独特文化的设计却越来越难。我在阿姆斯特丹的街道上漫步，我发现我来阿姆斯特丹的收获并不是在设计商店里而是在街道上。可能这很明显，但这座城市没有被现代化所征服 ，它保留了自己独特的建筑和风格，自行车是人们的主要出行方式，行人的权利也受到了保护。每周我都会出一期简讯，我在上面写了一篇关于这件事的文章，收到了巨大的反响。我意识到这些公共场所的普通的设计，对人们来说意味着很多，它们可以让人们对设计有些了解。
en:And I had a bit of a wake-up call in Amsterdam:I was there going into the design stores,and mixing with our crowd of designers,and I recognized that a whole lot of stuffpretty much looked the same, and the effect of globalizationhas had that in our community also.We know a lot about what&#39;s going on with design around the world,and it&#39;s getting increasingly more difficultto find design that reflects a unique culture.I was walking around on the streets of Amsterdamand I recognized, you know, the big storyfrom Amsterdam isn&#39;t what&#39;s in the design stores,it&#39;s what&#39;s out on the streets,and maybe it&#39;s self-explanatory,but a city that hasn&#39;t been taken over by modernism,that&#39;s preserved its kind of architecture and character,and where the bicycle plays an important part of the wayin which people get around and where pedestrian rightsare protected.And I write a newsletter that goes out every week,and I wrote an article about this, and it got such enormous responsethat I realized that design, that common design,that&#39;s in the public area means a lot to people,and establishes kind of a groundwork and a dialog.
时间： 2:57
zh-cn:然后我想起了欧洲的另外一些城市，我在那些地方寻找设计艺术，例如巴塞尔，即维特拉（著名家具制造厂）所在的城市，或意大利北部—这些城市都有很多的自行车，和行人专区—我得到以下结论可能这些影响力较大的设计中心进行与自行车和步行交通相关的设计是有一定原因的。肯定有人会说，不，那是因为大学和中小学里人们买不起车，但看起来很多这样的地方行人的交通是受到保护的。看看这辆车，你不能把这个叫做设计师设计的车吧：设计师设计的车是由钛和钼制作的。但是我开始观察像阿姆斯特丹这样地方的设计结果发现，嗯，设计的首要目的是为社会服务。这辆车虽然不像是设计师设计的车，但却是非常好的一个设计的例子。
en:I then kind of thought about the other citiesin Europe where I spend a lot of time looking for design,like Basel, where Vitra is located, or in northern Italy —all cities where there are a whole lot of bicycles,and where pedestrian areas — and I came to the conclusion that perhapsthere was something about these important design centersthat dealt with bicycles and foot traffic,and I&#39;m sure the skeptic eye would say, no, the correlation thereis that there are universities and schoolswhere people can&#39;t afford cars,but it did seem that in many of these areaspedestrian traffic was protected.You wouldn&#39;t look at this and call this a designer bike:a designer bike is made of titanium or molybdenum.But I began looking at design in a place like Amsterdamand recognized, you know, the first job of designis to serve a social purpose.And so I look at this bike as not being a designer bike,but being a very good example of design.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:自从在阿姆斯特丹体会到了这一点，我又用了更多的时间在城市里寻找设计作品来证明很多设计是没有设计者的鲜明特色的。最近我去过布宜诺斯艾利斯，去参观卡拉特拉瓦设计的桥。他是西班牙的建筑家和设计师。旅行手册指引我从这个方向看这座桥—我喜爱桥，喜欢它的喻义、象征意义和它的结构—但我对这座桥有些失望。因为河里的淤泥在上面都结壳了；看来这架桥还没有使用。我意识到，设计，很多时候，当你打算去看的时候，会有些失望。
en:And since that time in Amsterdam, I spent an increasing amount of timein the cities, looking at designfor common evidence of designthat really isn&#39;t under so much of a designer&#39;s signature.I was in Buenos Aires very recently,and I went to see this bridge by Santiago Calatrava.He&#39;s a Spanish architect and designer.And the tourist brochures pointed me in the direction of this bridge —I love bridges, metaphorically and symbolically and structurally —and it was a bit of a disappointment,because of the sludge from the river was encrusted on it; it really wasn&#39;t in use.And I recognized that oftentimes design,when you&#39;re set up to see design,it can be a bit of a letdown.
时间： 4:25
zh-cn:但这个地方还有很多事情正在发生：这有点儿像个建筑区；很多建筑物正在崛起。从远处看这个建筑物，看不到多少东西；当你靠近看，你会发现它是一些好的元素的结合可能会让你想起蒙德里安的绘画风格或得本科恩的绘画风格或另外的一些东西。但对我而言，它是带有一点颜色、活力和静物画风格的工业原料，是一个有点儿无意而为的设计作品的例子。再靠近点，你会看到另一个不同的景观。我发现这些小的装饰，这些有点意外的设计作品，令人耳目一新。他们给予我，我也不太清楚，一种正确的感觉和一些视觉上的享受，要知道，这个建筑物以后可能还没有这个简单的工业脚手架好看。而且脚手架还能立在这里提供服务。
en:But there were lots of other things going on in this area:it was a kind of construction zone;a lot of buildings were going up.And, approaching a building from a distance, you don&#39;t see too much;you get a little closer, and you arrive at a nice little compositionthat might remind you of a Mondrian or a Diebenkorn or something.But to me it was an example ofindustrial materials with a little bit of colors and animationand a nice little still life — kind of unintended piece of design.And going a little closer, you get a different perspective.I find these little vignettes,these little accidental pieces of design,to be refreshing.They give me, I don&#39;t know,a sense of correctness in the worldand some visual delight in the knowledgethat the building will probably never look as goodas this simple industrial scaffoldingthat is there to serve.
时间： 5:11
zh-cn:沿着这条路走下去，有另外一个建筑，看起来结构很好：水平元素、垂直元素、小的装饰线穿过这些紫红色的、弯弯曲曲的线条，工人们正在分解这些装饰性的元素；用了一个稍微好的方式将它从城市中拆除。要知道，它已经不存在了。你在一瞬间捕捉了它，发现这张静态的照片让你感觉像是在听着小曲或其他诸如此类的活动。它让我无比快乐。普雷多克（美国建筑师）在圣地亚哥设计了一个非常好的球场叫佩科球场。很好地利用了当地的材料，但在球场内部你会发现很多构成部分。有人去球场看球赛；而我去看设计关系。即对建筑的完美分解，以及这些树形成垂直元素的方式。
en:Down the road, there was another building, a nice visual structure:horizontal, vertical elements, little decorative linesgoing across, these magenta squiggles,the workmen being reduced to decorative elements,just a nice, kind of, breakupof the urban place.And, you know, that no longer exists.You&#39;ve captured it for a moment, and finding this little still life&#39;slike listening to little songs or something:it gives me an enormous amount of pleasure.Antoine Predock designeda wonderful ball stadium in San Diegocalled Petco Park.A terrific use of local materials,but inside you could find some interior compositions.Some people go to baseball stadiums to look at games;I go and see design relationships.Just a wonderful kind of breakup of architecture,and the way that the trees form vertical elements.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:红色在景观里出现通常是在停止标志上。红色能吸引你的注意力，给人们强烈的情感；它就像个人那样盯着你。这是在意大利看到的一个屏障带里面的东西。纽约的施工现场：红色拥有的情感上的影响力可以说是能与可爱的小狗相媲美。意大利的一处小巷。红色吸引我让我看到了这个组合，它使我对公共服务中的邮政服务、上门服务、管道服务都感到乐观：看起来这些不同的公共服务共同合作创造了很好的组合。在意大利，恩，基本上每个东西看起来都不错。贴纸木板上的简单的菜单，看起来有点儿平衡感。但我确信这是因为你在大街上边走边看的原因。红色是滑稽的：它能吸引你的注意力让你看到可怜的小消防栓正在遭受哈瓦那的市政规划的摧残。颜色能让简单的街区变得有生气，让简单的材料变得有生机：在纽约里行走，有时我会停下来
en:Red is a color in the landscapethat is often on stop signs.It takes your attention; it has a great amount of emotion;it stares back at you the way that a figure might.Just a piece of barrier tape construction stuff in Italy.Construction site in New York:red having this kind of emotional powerthat&#39;s almost an equivalent with the way in which —cuteness of puppies and such.Side street in Italy.Red drew me into this little composition,optimistic to me in the sense that maybethe public service&#39;s mailbox,door service, plumbing.It looks as if these different public serviceswork together to create some nice little compositions.In Italy, you know, almost everything, kind of, looks good.Simple menus put on a board,achieving, kind of, the sort of balance.But I&#39;m convinced that it&#39;s becauseyou&#39;re walking around the streets and seeing things.Red can be comical: it can draw your attentionto the poor little personality of the little fire hydrantsuffering from bad civic planning in Havana.Color can animate simple blocks,simple materials:walking in New York, I&#39;ll stop.
时间： 6:54
zh-cn:我不知道为什么会拍事物的照片。（这是）一个比较好的对称组合。圆弧和锐物相对。这是我们在处理纽约的公共座椅时在路上遇到的一个评论。我无意中发现了另外一些有点儿奇特的关系这是大街上的护柱，当然它们之间的关系有很多种理解。但是—这些东西让我很开心。有时一个垃圾桶—这是在旧金山的街道上一个留在那里有18个月之久的垃圾桶和另外的这些事物间构成了一个45度的角把一个很普通的停车位变成了一小块好看的艺术品。恩，这些对我的设计有影响的东西都是我在去过的地方所看到的。
en:I don&#39;t always know why I take photographs of things.A nice visual composition of symmetry.Curves against sharp things.It&#39;s a comment on the way in which we deal withpublic seating in the city of New York.I&#39;ve come across some other just,kind of, curious relationshipsof bollards on the street that have different interpretations,but — these things amuse me.Sometimes a trash can — this is just in the street in San Francisco —a trash can that&#39;s been left there for 18 monthscreates a nice 45-degree angleagainst these other relationships,and turns a common parking spot into a nice little piece of sculpture.So, there&#39;s this sort of silent hand of design at workthat I see in places that I go.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:哈瓦那是一个非常好的地方。它是一个远离商业纷争的地方：你看不到商品的logo、品牌和名字，因此你必须自己切身体验所有的东西。这个东西对步行区起着很好的保护作用，这真是殖民地的大炮再利用的好地方。古巴由于封锁，所以需要有更多的资源，但它确实是一个乐园。
en:Havana is a wonderful area.It&#39;s quite free of commercial clutter:you don&#39;t see our logos and brands and names,and therefore you&#39;re alert to things physically.And this is a great protection of a pedestrian zone,and the repurposing of some colonial cannons to do that.And Cuba needs to be far more resourceful,because of the blockades and things,but a really wonderful playground.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:我经常想为什么意大利会引领现代的设计潮流。在我们这个行业，家具业，意大利可以说是首屈一指。荷兰的也很好，但没有意大利的好。我在威尼斯偶然经过了这个小巷，发现共产党的总部和天主教的神殿竟然共用一面墙。我意识到，在意大利人们能够接受这些不同的意识形态他们可以自然地处理这种多元性或者选择忽略它们。但这些-你没有敌对的派别，我认为也许就是对这些荒诞事情的容忍使得意大利如此富于创新性和包容性意大利过去和现在的作品融合得也很好，我认为设计在那里是公认的，并对文化有重要影响的原因是，他们的公共场所都受到了保护，他们的人行道也受到了保护事实上你可以切身体会这些东西，我认为这使得人们能战胜对现代化之类的恐惧感。
en:I&#39;ve often wondered why Italy is really a leader in modern design.In our area, in furnishings,they&#39;re sort of way at the top.The Dutch are good also, but the Italians are good.And I came across this little street in Venice,where the communist headquarterswere sharing a wall with this Catholic shrine.And I realized that, you know, Italy is a placewhere they can accept these different ideologiesand deal with diversity and not have the problem,or they can choose to ignore them,but these — you don&#39;t have warring factions,and I think that maybe the tolerance of the absurditywhich has made Italy so innovativeand so tolerant.The past and the present work quite well together in Italy also,and I think that it&#39;s recognizable there,and has an important effect on culture,because their public spaces are protected,their sidewalks are protected,and you&#39;re actually able to confront these thingsphysically,and I think this helps people get overtheir fear of modernism and other such things.
时间： 8:59
zh-cn:旧金山典型的街角与意大利的街道完全不同。我用这种图片给大家说一下—这个，有点是我认为的城市形象垃圾。因为我经常步行所以会注意到这个东西，在这里，私营企业在某种程度上确实让公共场所变得一团糟。我是这样看的，对城市里存在的问题进行报道的那些出版物本身也使这个问题进一步激化。我在此呼吁大家，公共政策根本不能改变这一点；私营企业必须认真对待这类问题。
en:A change might be a typical street corner in San Francisco.And I use this — this is, sort of,what I consider to be urban spam.I notice this stuff because I walk a lot,but here, private industry is really kind ofmaking a mess of the public sector.And as I look at it, I sort of say, you know,the publications that report on problems in the urban areaalso contribute to it,and it&#39;s just my call to say to all of us,public policy won&#39;t change this at all;private industry has to work to take things like this seriously.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:另一种极端情况又出现在意大利，在那里，对与环境相关的活动进行了一些控制这对环境上的影响非常明显。这一点从他们出售和分发期刊的方式上就可以看的出来。我每天都是步行或骑着我的小摩托车去上班，在这个小停车位停车。有一天我过去的时候，发现所有的摩托车都是红色的。这不是用photoshop做出来的这是真实的景象。当我下车时，我看了看，又想了想，好像我们这些骑摩托车的人都想一起协力树立一点儿摩托车的文化。它提醒我—要生活在现在，要留意这类东西。
en:The extreme might be in Italy where, again,there&#39;s kind of some type of controlover what&#39;s happening in the environment is very evident,even in the way that they sell and distribute periodicals.I walk to work every day or ride my scooter,and I come down and park in this little spot.And I came down one day,and all the bikes were red.Now, this is not going to impress you guys who Photoshop, and can do stuff,but this was an actual momentwhen I got off my bike,and I looked and I thought, it&#39;s as ifall of my biker brethrenhad kind of gotten together and conspiredto make a little statement.And it reminded me that —to keep in the present,to look out for these kinds of things.
时间：10:10
zh-cn:它让我觉得—如果哪天旧金山的天较黄，我们可能都会同意，去安装一些设施。它也提醒我式样和重复的力量对我们大脑的影响。但我不知道是否还有东西比式样以及式样把不同元素结合起来的方式更让我们印象深刻。十二月的时候我在迈阿密的艺术展上，花了很长时间欣赏展出的艺术品，我对那些艺术品的价格非常惊讶，它们实在是太贵了，不过我欣赏它们时心情很愉快。我出来时发现，代客停车的服务员用这些车钥匙做出了挺好看的一张拼贴画。我发现的和它最像的一个作品是我在东京见到的一组祈祷标签。我想如果式样能把这些独立的元素结合起来，那它可以做任何事情。
en:It gave me possibilities for wonder —if maybe it&#39;s a yellow day in San Francisco, and we could all agree,and create some installations.But it also reminded me of the powerof pattern and repetitionto make an effect in our mind.And I don&#39;t know if there&#39;s a stronger kind of effectthan pattern and the way it uniteskind of disparate elements.I was at the art show in Miami in December,and spent a couple of hours looking at fine art,and amazed at the prices of artand how expensive it is, but having a great time looking at it.And I came outside, and the valets for this car servicehad created, you know, quite a nice little collageof these car keys,and my closest equivalent were a group of prayer tagsthat I had seen in Tokyo.And I thought that ifpattern can unite these disparate elements,it can do just about anything.
时间：11:03
zh-cn:我不是很经常拍人物照，因为它会阻碍我研究纯粹的形式。那时我在西班牙的一个小酒店里，吃午餐—天气不错，你觉得在这个地方就是专门为你准备的，你在喝着红酒，欣赏着当地的风景、文化以及食物，环境很安静，你感觉很幸运。突然来了一辆旅游车，大家蜂拥而出，填满了这家酒店。在很短的时间内，完全改变了那里的氛围和特点。他们说话声音实在太大了，人也长得很壮。我们没办法只好站起来离开：感觉心里很不舒服。就在那一刻，太阳出来了，通过这个穿孔的屏风，把带孔的图案投到了那些人的身上，他们渐渐地消失在后方，我们离开餐馆时，心情感觉还可以。
en:I don&#39;t have very many shots of people,because they kind of get in the way of studying pure form.I was in a small restaurant in Spain,having lunch —one of those nice days whereyou had the place kind of to yourself,and you have a glass of wine, and enjoying the local areaand the culture and the foodand the quiet, and feeling very lucky,and a bus load of tourists arrived,emptied out,filled up the restaurant.In a very short period of time,completely changed the atmosphereand character with loud voices and large bodies and such,and we had to get up and leave;it was just that uncomfortable.And at that moment, the sun came out,and through this perforated screen,a pattern was cast over these bodiesand they kind of faded into the rear,and we left the restaurant kind offeeling O.K. about stuff.
时间：11:57
zh-cn:我认为式样能够根除社会上的一些不好的影响，例如在酒店中的不好的习惯。但认真说来，我认为当你只接受一种文化时你看事情或做事情的时候就很容易偏激，这是工业社会所产生的，可以说是，大量的影响之一，所以我认为保持文化的多元性对我们来说很重要。
en:And I do think patternhas the capability of eradicatingsome of the most evilforces of society,such as bad form in restaurants,but quite seriously, it was a statement to methat one thing that you do, sort of, seeis the aggressive natureof the industrial world has produced —kind of,large masses of things,and when you — in monoculture,and I think the preservation of diversity in cultureis something that&#39;s important to us.
时间：12:29
zh-cn:我要给大家讲的最后几张照片—又回到了人行道的主题，我想在这里说几句话—我这个人，其实有点乐观。二战后，汽车在很多城市的影响力逐渐降低。很多城市都把停车场另为他用。很多计划部门变成交通部门的附属。数落汽车就好像去沃尔玛一样那么容易。我不打算陈述汽车的罪状。但是它们见证了都市化的过程，和在过去的几年里发生的变化，对城市环境的重要性高度敏感。因为现在的城市大都是文化中心。它们的环境很重要。我认为，我们在这里的演讲是我们对大众的贡献。
en:The last shots that I have deal with —coming back to this theme of sidewalks,and I wanted tosay something here about — I&#39;m, kind of, optimistic, you know.Post-Second World War,the influence of the automobilehas really been devastating in a lot of our cities.A lot of urban areas have been converted into parking lotsin a sort of indiscriminate use.A lot of the planning departments became subordinatedto the transportation department. It&#39;s as easy to rag on carsas it is on Wal-Mart;I&#39;m not going to do that.But they&#39;re real examples in urbanizationand the change that&#39;s occurred in the last number of years,and the heightened sensitivity to the importanceof our urban environments as cultural centers.I think that they are, that the statements that we makein this public sectorare our contributionsto a larger whole.
时间：13:18
zh-cn:城市是我们最有可能接触到多元文化并与他人交流的地方。我们去那里寻找艺术上的灵感和类似的东西。我认为人们已经意识到了城市地区的神圣性。像芝加哥这样的城市已经是国际知名的都市。在城市的规划和重建上，美国可以说是先驱，我想说一下芝加哥，那里的戴利市长可以说是个设计英雄，他通过了政治上的重重阻碍，对芝加哥进行了改善。可能你觉得像芝加哥这样的城市只有在密歇根大道这种有钱人购物的地方，才有高档的花箱，但如果你沿着街道走，你会发现每个街道的花箱都不相同：植物也有多样性。让一个城市拥有各种各样不同植物的想法确实很特别。
en:Cities are the place where we&#39;re most likelyto encounter diversityand to mix with other people.We go there for stimulation in art and all those other things.But I think people have recognizedthe sanctity of our urban areas.A place like Chicagohas really reached kind of a level of international stature.The U.S. is actually becoming a bit of a leader in kind ofenlightened urban planning and renewal,and I want to single out a place like Chicago,where I look at some guy like Mayor Daley as a bit of a design herofor being able to work through thepolitical processes and all that to improve an area.You would expect a city like this to haveupgraded flower boxeson Michigan Avenue where wealthy people shop,but if you actually go along the street you findthe flower boxes change from street to street:there&#39;s actual diversity in the plants.And the idea that a city group can maintaindifferent types of foliageis really quite exceptional.
时间：14:09
zh-cn:如果你走遍芝加哥，你会发现很多类似的东西，这是被人们称为big-D的设计，是弗兰克·盖里设计的普利兹克露天音乐厅。我认为这个设计很重要，并不是因为它的外表，而是因为它在社会上所起的重要作用。例如，这个音乐厅有很多免费的音乐会；它有着出色的音响系统。但这个城市为大众提供的这些服务意义非常重大，可以说是在国际上树立了典范。我参与了旧金山的市长顾问委员会的工作，主要是关于国际化的设计，芝加哥在这个方面是首屈一指的，我在这里向戴利市长他们致以敬意。我想我至少应该给大家看一张有科技含量的设计的图片。这也是芝加哥千禧公园里的一景，是西班牙的艺术家普莱策（Plensa）设计的，可是说，这个公园里的一个显示屏能真实地反映这一地区人们的性格和特点。并且它位于入口处，我认为，这样显示出了对多样性的容纳，是多样性的反映，我想，在公共场所把技术和艺术结合起来，美国在这一点上确实很领先 ，芝加哥就是一个典型的例子。
en:There are common elements of this that you&#39;ll see throughout Chicago,and then there are your big-D design statements:the Pritzker Pavilion done by Frank Gehry.My measure of this as being an important bit of designis not so much the way that it looks,but the fact that it performs a very important social function.There are a lot of free concerts, for example,that go on in this area;it has a phenomenal acoustic system.But the commitment that the city has made to the public areais significant, and almost an international model.I work on the mayor&#39;s council in San Francisco,on the International Design Council for Mayors,and Chicago is looked at as the pinnacle,and I really would like to salute Mayor Daley and the folks there.I thought that I should include at least oneshot of technology for you guys.This is also in Millennium Park in Chicago,where the Spanish artist-designer Plensahas created, kind of,a digital readout in this parkthat reflects backthe characters and personalitiesof the people in this area.And it&#39;s a welcoming area, I think, inclusive of diversity,reflective of diversity, and I thinkthis marriage of both technology and artin the public sector is an area where the U.S.can really take a leadership role,and Chicago is one example.
时间：15:21
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you very much.
