时间： 0:11
zh-cn:让我们向南去你们所有人实际上正在向南这个是向南的方向如果你朝这个房间后面走8000公里你将会走到你能在地球上到达的最南端南极点
en:Let&#39;s go south.All of you are actually going south.This is the direction of south, this way,and if you go 8,000 kilometersout of the back of this room,you will come to as far southas you can go anywhere on Earth,the Pole itself.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:现在，我不是一个探险家我也不是一个环境学家我实际上只是一个幸存者我现在展示给你们的图片很危险它们是南极和北极融化的冰雪女士们先生们我们需要倾听这些地方正在告诉我们的话如果我们不这样做，我们将会在地球上严峻的生存情形面前死亡。
en:Now, I am not an explorer.I&#39;m not an environmentalist.I&#39;m actually just a survivor,and these photographsthat I&#39;m showing you here are dangerous.They are the ice meltof the South and North Poles.And ladies and gentlemen,we need to listen to whatthese places are telling us,and if we don&#39;t, we will end upwith our own survival situationhere on planet Earth.
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:我曾亲眼见过这些地方，走在融化海洋冰面上无疑是我所做过的最惊险的事情。
en:I have faced head-on these places,and to walk across a melting ocean of iceis without doubtthe most frightening thingthat&#39;s ever happened to me.
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:南极是一个充满希望的地方。南极被 1959 年所签署的南极条约保护着。在 1991 年，一个 50 年条约被签署实施禁止一切对南极的开发利用，但是从 2041 年开始这个条约就可以被修改，变换，改进，甚至是被摒弃。女士们先生们，远在北极的人们已经开始利用冰在融化的这个优势，将埋在冰下有成千上万年的资源开采出来。难道他们不能和其他人一样想一想：“为什么冰正在融化呢？”
en:Antarctica is such a hopeful place.It is protected by the Antarctic Treaty, signed in 1959.In 1991, a 50-year agreementwas entered intothat stops any exploitation in Antarctica,and this agreement could be altered,changed, modified, or even abandonedstarting in the year 2041.Ladies and gentlemen,people already far up northfrom here in the Arcticare already taking advantageof this ice melt,taking out resources from areasalready that have been covered in icefor the last 10, 20, 30,000,100,000 years.Can they not join the dotsand think, &quot;Why is the iceactually melting?&quot;
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:南极，这是一个充满神奇的地方，在过去的 23 年里，我一直都非常努力的工作以确保在北极所发生的事情绝不会发生在南极。
en:This is such an amazing place,the Antarctic, and I have worked hardfor the last 23 years on this missionto make sure that what&#39;s happeningup here in the Northdoes never happen, cannot happen in the South.
时间： 3:20
zh-cn:这该从何说起呢？故事从我 11 岁时开始。看看我当时的发型是不是有点奇怪。（笑声）在 11 岁之际，我被真正的探险家所打动我想成为第一个走过南极和北极的人。这个想法真的是非常的鼓舞人心，成为极地旅行者的想法在大学的派对里非常受到女生的欢迎。这样一来就更加令我振奋。经过足足七年的筹资，连续七年的被反对，连续七年的被家人劝说去接受心理治疗，最终我们其中三个人实现梦想，在无人协助的情况下完成了有史以来在南极最长旅行。在张照片里，我们站在一个和美国一样大小的地方，而且只有我们。我们没有电子通讯设备，没有后方补给。在我们脚下，是全世界 90% 的冰，全世界 70% 的淡水资源。我们就站在它上面。这就是南极的魅力。
en:Where did this all begin?It began for me at the age of 11.Check out that haircut. It&#39;s a bit odd. (Laughter)And at the age of 11, I was inspired by the real explorersto want to try to be the firstto walk to both Poles.I found it incredibly inspiringthat the idea of becoming a polar travelerwent down pretty well with girls at parties when I was at university.That was a bit more inspiring.And after years, sevenyears of fundraising,seven years of being told no,seven years of being toldby my family to seek counselingand psychiatric help,eventually three of us found ourselvesmarching to the South Geographic Poleon the longest unassisted marchever made anywhere on Earth in history.In this photograph,we are standing in an areathe size of the United States of America,and we&#39;re on our own.We have no radio communications, no backup.Beneath our feet,90 percent of all the world&#39;s ice,70 percent of all the world&#39;s fresh water.We&#39;re standing on it.This is the power of Antarctica.
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:在这个路途中，我们面对着冰隙的危险严峻寒冷，冷到你身上出的汗在衣服里结成冰，你的牙齿碎裂，水在你的眼睛里结冰。说真的那里实在有点冷。（笑声）在 70 天的孤注一掷后我们到达了南极点。我们做到了。但是在 1986 年的那 70 天里所发生的事情让我来到这里，而且那件事非常伤人。我们眼睛在 70 天里受到损伤，改变了颜色。我们的脸起满了水饱。皮肤被撕下，我们却不知道为什么。当我们回家后，NASA 告诉我们，在南极上方发现了臭氧层的漏洞，在它被发现的那年，我们就走它下面。紫外线射到冰上，反射回来，烧坏了我们的眼睛，撕裂了我们的脸。这确实够震惊的（笑声）这样我开始思考。
en:On this journey, we facedthe danger of crevasses,intense cold,so cold that sweat turnsto ice inside your clothing,your teeth can crack,water can freeze in your eyes.Let&#39;s just say it&#39;s a bit chilly.(Laughter)And after 70 desperate days,we arrive at the South Pole.We had done it.But something happened to meon that 70-day journey in 1986that brought me here, and it hurt.My eyes changed colorin 70 days through damage.Our faces blistered out.The skin ripped offand we wondered why.And when we got home,we were told by NASAthat a hole in the ozonehad been discoveredabove the South Pole,and we&#39;d walked underneath itthe same year it had been discovered.Ultraviolet rays down, hit the ice,bounced back, fried out the eyes,ripped off our faces.It was a bit of a shock —(Laughter) —and it started me thinking.
时间： 6:05
zh-cn:在 1989 年，我们向北进军。在 60 天里，我们离开安全的陆地，穿越冰封的海洋。那一次又是冷人绝望的寒冷。这是我，裸身在 -60 摄氏度洗澡回来。所以，如果任何人和你说：“我很冷”（笑声）如果他们看上去是这个样子，他们绝对很冷。（掌声）
en:In 1989, we now head north.Sixty days, every step awayfrom the safety of landacross a frozen ocean.It was desperately cold again.Here&#39;s me coming in from washingnaked at -60 Celsius.And if anybody ever says to you,&quot;I am cold&quot; — (Laughter) —if they look like this, they are cold, definitely.(Applause)
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:1000 千米远离安全的陆地，灾难发生了。北冰洋在我们脚下融化了，历史性的提早了四个月，那时我们安全的陆地千里之遥。并在我们周围轰然裂开，我想：“我们要死了么？”但是我脑海中突然意识到，我们作为一个世界在一个生存境遇中，那个感觉一直在我的心里有 25 年了。在那时候，我们要么前进要么死亡。我们不是什么野外生存电视节目。当情况出现问题的时候，便是生与死的问题，我们勇敢的非裔美国人达里尔，他将会成为第一个走到北极的人，可是他的脚跟因为严重冻伤掉了下来。他必须继续前行，而且他做到了，在冰面行走的 60 天后，我们站在了北极点上。我们做到了。是的，我成为历史上第一个愚蠢到走到两极的人，但这是我们的成功。
en:And 1,000 kilometers awayfrom the safety of land,disaster strikes.The Arctic Ocean melts beneath our feetfour months before it ever had in history,and we&#39;re 1,000 kilometers from safety.The ice is crashing around us, grinding,and I&#39;m thinking, &quot;Are we going to die?&quot;But something clickedin my head on this day,as I realized we, as a world,are in a survival situation,and that feeling has never gone awayfor 25 long years.Back then, we had to march or die.And we&#39;re not some TV survivor program.When things go wrong for us,it&#39;s life or death,and our brave African-American Daryl,who would become the first Americanto walk to the North Pole,his heel dropped off from frostbite 200 klicks out.He must keep going, he does,and after 60 days on the ice,we stood at the North Pole.We had done it.Yes, I became the first person in historystupid enough to walk to both Poles,but it was our success.
时间： 8:00
zh-cn:但不幸的是，在我们回家的途中，并不总是充满愉悦，我情绪变得非常低落。成功比付出行动要更难。我当时空虚，孤独，贫穷。我当时失去了希望，但是我从伟大的雅克·库斯托那里找回了希望，他鼓舞我接手 2041 任务。雅克给了我明确的指示:鼓舞世界领袖，与工商业交谈，而最重要的是鼓舞年轻人，因为他们将选择对南极保护。
en:And sadly, on return home,it was not all fun.I became very low.To succeed at something is often harderthan actually making it happen.I was empty, lonely,financially destroyed.I was without hope,but hope came in the formof the great Jacques Cousteau,and he inspired me to take on the 2041 mission.Being Jacques, he gave meclear instructions:Engage the world leaders,talk to industry and business,and above all, Rob, inspire young people,because they will choose the futureof the preservation of Antarctica.
时间： 8:47
zh-cn:至于世界领袖，我们访遍了每一个地球峰会，他们三个，承载着勇敢帆船 2041 号分别在 1992 年和 2012 年达到里约热内卢，为了约翰内斯堡的地球峰会，我们完成最长的陆地帆船的航行，围绕着整个南非 13000 公里，我们尽最大努力用 2041 和他们的环境激发百万的年轻人。
en:For the world leaders, we&#39;ve beento every world Earth Summit,all three of them,with our brave yacht, 2041,twice to Rio, once in &#39;92, once in 2012,and for the Earth Summit in Johannesburg,we made the longest overland voyageever made with a yacht,13,000 kilometers aroundthe whole of Southern Africadoing our best to inspireover a million young people in personabout 2041 and about their environment.
时间： 9:27
zh-cn:在过去的 11 年里，我们带着超过 1000 人来自工商的男女人们世界各地的学生们，去往南极，在任务之中，我们成功的将超过 1500 的废铁清理出南极。这花了我们 8 年时间，但是我很为此自豪，因为我们将那些废铁全部在南美回收利用了。自从我可以走路时我就和我妈学习资源回收，这就是她，我妈妈（掌声）我妈妈仍然坚持回收利用，她现在都已经 100 岁了，这难道不是非常棒么？（掌声）当—-我爱我妈。（笑声）当我妈出生的时候，当我母亲出生的时候，世界人口只有 18 亿，在这数亿人中，我们带着来自中国和印度工商业的年轻人。这些都是具有颠覆性的国家，在将来对于保护南极的决定中将扮演举足轻重的角色。难以置信的是，niudai我们还激发和鼓舞了来自中东的女性第一次代表她们的国家现身于南极。了不起的人们，各个志气焕发。一起来保护南极，你们已经初步鼓舞人们参与到这了不起的地方，形成了一种关系，形成了一种纽带，还产生了一些爱。能够去往南极真的是我的荣幸，我不知道该怎么告诉你我当时感到多么幸运，我已在我一生中去了 35 次了，所有和我们一起去的人，作为伟大的胜利者返回各国，不仅仅是为了南极，还是为了他们国家各自的问题。
en:For the last 11 years,we have taken over 1,000 people,people from industry and business,women and men from companies,students from all over the world,down to Antarctica,and during those missions,we&#39;ve managed to pull outover 1,500 tons of twisted metalleft in Antarctica.That took eight years,and I&#39;m so proud of itbecause we recycled all of it back here in South America.I have been inspiredever since I could walkto recycle by my mum.Here she is, and my mum —(Applause) —my mum is still recycling,and as she is in her 100th year,isn&#39;t that fantastic?(Applause)And when — I love my mum.(Laughter)But when Mum was born,the population of our planetwas only 1.8 billion people,and talking in terms of billions,we have taken young peoplefrom industry and businessfrom India, from China.These are game-changing nations,and will be hugely importantin the decision aboutthe preservation of the Antarctic.Unbelievably, we&#39;ve engaged and inspiredwomen to come from the Middle East,often for the first time they&#39;ve represented their nations in Antarctica.Fantastic people, so inspired.To look after Antarctica,you&#39;ve got to first engage peoplewith this extraordinary place,form a relationship, form a bond,form some love.It is such a privilegeto go to Antarctica,I can&#39;t tell you.I feel so lucky,and I&#39;ve been 35 times in my life,and all those people who come with usreturn home as great champions,not only for Antarctica,but for local issuesback in their own nations.
时间：11:48
zh-cn:让我们退回到我们开始的地方：南北极的冰融化的事情。这不是一个好消息。NASA 6 个月之前告诉我们南极西部的冰架正在解体。大面积的冰—看看南极和这里比有多大—大面积的冰正从南极脱离有一个小国家的大小。NASA 还计算出海平面在未来 100 年里会上升 1 米是必定无疑的事情，和我妈活着时间一样长。这件事情会发生的，我已经意识到对南极的保护与我们的生还紧密相连。对此，有一个简单的解决办法。如果我们在现实世界中更多的使用可再生能源，如果我们能够更高效的利用现有能源，使我们的能源结构更加清洁，我们就不会因为经济上的问题去开采南极。这种行为一点都不经济，如果我们可以更好的管理我们的能源，我们也许减慢，甚至停止对我们有威胁的大面积冰层融化。
en:Let&#39;s go back to where we began:the ice melt of the North and South Poles.And it&#39;s not good news.NASA informed us six months agothat the Western Antarctic Ice Shelfis now disintegrating.Huge areas of ice —look how big Antarctica iseven compared to here —Huge areas of ice are breaking off from Antarctica,the size of small nations.And NASA have calculatedthat the sea level will rise,it is definite,by one meter in the next 100 years,the same time that my mumhas been on planet Earth.It&#39;s going to happen,and I&#39;ve realized that the preservation of Antarcticaand our survival here on Earth are linked.And there is a very simple solution.If we are using more renewable energyin the real world,if we are being more efficientwith the energy here,running our energy mix in a cleaner way,there will be no financial reasonto go and exploit Antarctica.It won&#39;t make financial sense,and if we manage our energy better,we also may be able to slow down,maybe even stop,this great ice melt that threatens us.
时间：13:24
zh-cn:这是个巨大挑战，我们该怎样应对？我们需要再回去一次，在明年年底，我们将会回到南极点，我们 30 年前徒步到达过的地方，追溯我们 1600 千米的步行，但是这一次只使用再生能源来存活。我们将会走过那些底层正在融化的冰盖，或许我们可以找到解决那个问题的方法。
en:It&#39;s a big challenge, and whatis our response to it?We&#39;ve got to go back one last time,and at the end of next year,we will go back to theSouth Geographic Pole,where we arrived 30 years ago on foot,and retrace our steps of 1,600 kilometers,but this time only usingrenewable energy to survive.We will walk across those icecaps,which far down below are melting,hopefully inspiring somesolutions on that issue.
时间：14:04
zh-cn:这是我的儿子，巴尼。他将同我一起前行。他将和他的父亲肩并肩一起前行，他将翻译这些信息，用这些新信息去鼓舞未来年轻的领袖们。我为他感到非常自豪。祝巴尼好运。
en:This is my son, Barney.He is coming with me.He is committed to walkingside by side with his father,and what he will do isto translate these messagesand inspire these messagesto the minds of future young leaders.I&#39;m extremely proud of him.Good on him, Barney.
时间：14:30
zh-cn:女士们先生们，一个幸存者，可以看见一个问题无论如何他会停留下来。一个幸存者发现问题，在它变成威胁之前解决它。我们有 27 年的时间去保护南极。我们共同拥有它。我们共同承担着责任。它并不属于仍和人的这个事实也许意味着我们会成功。南极是一个埋在雪里的道德线，在那条线的一边我们应该斗争，为地球上这片美丽、纯净的土地斗争。我知道这是可能的。我们将会去斗争。我将歌德说的一些话留给你们。我尝试将它们作为我的信条。
en:Ladies and gentlemen, a survivor — and I&#39;m good —a survivor sees a problemand doesn&#39;t go, &quot;Whatever.&quot;A survivor sees a problemand deals with that problembefore it becomes a threat.We have 27 yearsto preserve the Antarctic.We all own it.We all have responsibility.The fact that nobody owns it maybe means that we can succeed.Antarctica is a moral line in the snow,and on one side of that linewe should fight,fight hard for this one beautiful,pristine place left alone on Earth.I know it&#39;s possible.We are going to do it.And I&#39;ll leave you withthese words from Goethe.I&#39;ve tried to live by them.
时间：15:34
zh-cn:“如果你们可以做到，或是梦想能做到，现在就开始吧，因为勇气中包含着聪慧，力量，和魔法。”
en:&quot;If you can do, or dream you can,begin it now,for boldness has genius,power and magic in it.&quot;
时间：15:52
zh-cn:祝你们好运。
en:Good luck to you all.
时间：15:53
zh-cn:非常感谢
en:Thank you very much.
时间：15:55
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
