时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们可以在未来三十年内将全球暴力性死亡率减半。我们只需将谋杀犯罪率每年降低2.3%，并且我们可以做到。
en:We can cut violent deathsaround the worldby 50 percent in the next three decades.All we have to dois drop killing by 2.3 percent a year,and we&#39;ll hit that target.
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:你不信我？世界各地顶尖的流行病学家和犯罪学家似乎认为我们做得到，我也认为做得到，但前提是我们关注城市，特别是最为脆弱的城市。
en:You don&#39;t believe me?Well, the leading epidemiologistsand criminologists around the worldseem to think we can, and so do I,but only if we focus on our cities,especially the most fragile ones.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:这是我一直关注的问题。二十年来，我工作所处的国家和城市都充斥着冲突、暴力、恐怖主义，或者样样皆由。我曾经跟踪枪械走私分子从俄罗斯跟踪到索马里，我曾经与阿富汗和刚果的军阀合作，我曾在哥伦比亚、海地、斯里兰卡、巴布亚新几内亚，清点尸体数量。话虽如此，你不需要身处战争前线，才感觉到我们的星球正失去控制，是吧？大家明显都感觉到，国际动荡是新常态。但我希望大家深入观察，就会看到暴力的地理面貌正在改变，因为被冲突和犯罪操控的，不是我们的国家，而是城市：阿勒颇、巴马科、加拉加斯、埃尔比勒、摩苏尔、的黎波里、萨尔瓦多。暴力正向大都市迁移。
en:You see, I&#39;ve been thinkingabout this a lot.For the last 20 years, I&#39;ve been workingin countries and citiesripped apart by conflict,violence, terrorism, or someinsidious combination of all.I&#39;ve tracked gun smugglersfrom Russia to Somalia,I&#39;ve worked with warlordsin Afghanistan and the Congo,I&#39;ve counted cadavers in Colombia, in Haiti, in Sri Lanka, in Papua New Guinea.You don&#39;t need to beon the front line, though,to get a sense that our planetis spinning out of control, right?There&#39;s this feeling that internationalinstability is the new normal.But I want you to take a closer look,and I think you&#39;ll see thatthe geography of violence is changing,because it&#39;s not so much our nation statesthat are gripped by conflict and crimeas our cities: Aleppo, Bamako, Caracas, Erbil, Mosul, Tripoli, Salvador.Violence is migrating to the metropole.
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:也许这是预料之中的事，对吧？毕竟目前大部分人居住在城市，而不是农村。600个城市，包括30个大城市，就占了全球GDP的三分之二。但说到城市，话题大都由北部地区主导，所谓北部地区，是指北美、西欧、澳洲和日本，这些地区的暴力率处于历史新低点。因此，城市的热衷者聊的是城市的胜利、创新阶级的胜利、说市长们会统治世界。我希望某天市长真会统治世界，但是，事实是，我们没有真正地听到南部地区的声音和形势。所谓南部地区，我是指拉丁美洲、非洲、亚洲在这些地方，暴力不断加剧，基础设施捉襟见肘，有时政府管理不过是理想，难成现实。
en:And maybe this is to be expected, right?After all, most people today,they live in cities, not the countryside.Just 600 cities, including 30 megacities,account for two thirds of global GDP.But when it comes to cities,the conversation isdominated by the North,that is, North America, Western Europe,Australia and Japan,where violence is actually at historic lows.As a result, city enthusiasts, they talkabout the triumph of the city,of the creative classes, and the mayorsthat will rule the world.Now, I hope that mayorsdo one day rule the world,but, you know, the fact is,we don&#39;t hear any conversation, really,about what is happening in the South.And by South, I meanLatin America, Africa, Asia,where violence in somecases is accelerating,where infrastructure is overstretched,and where governance is sometimesan aspiration and not a reality.
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:目前，一些外交官、发展专家、专业人士在关注会决定21世纪安全的四五十个脆弱城市。会决定21世纪安全的四五十个脆弱城市。我认为，这些脆弱城市会直接决定未来的秩序和稳定。因为战争和人道主义行动将会集中发生在我们的城市，为发展而起的斗争，无论是消灭贫穷、普及医疗保健、还是击退气候变化，成败关键都在于城市中的破屋、残楼、贫民窟。我想向大家介绍定义现时代脆弱性的四大危机，倘若我们能够处理这些危机，我们就可以解决致命暴力问题。
en:Now, some diplomatsand development experts and specialists,they talk about 40 to 50 fragile statesthat will shape securityin the 21st century.I think it&#39;s fragile cities which willdefine the future of order and disorder.That&#39;s because warfareand humanitarian actionare going to beconcentrated in our cities,and the fight for development,whether you define thatas eradicating poverty,universal healthcare,beating back climate change,will be won or lost in the shantytowns,slums and favelas of our cities.I want to talk to you about four megarisksthat I think will definefragility in our time,and if we can get to grips with these,I think we can do somethingwith that lethal violence problem.
时间： 3:17
zh-cn:那么我们先由积极的谈起。事实是，我们现今生活在人类历史上最和平的年代。司提芬•朋克和其他人表明现今冲突的强度和频率是处于一个怎样的历史低点。目前，加沙、叙利亚、苏丹、乌克兰这些国家的冲突可怕恐怖，在暴力持续下降50年之后，这只是一个相对较小的往上攀升的点。此外，我们注意到凶杀案大大减少。曼纽尔•艾斯纳和其他人发现凶杀案下降到令人难以置信的数百年来的低点，特别是在西方地区。现今大部分的北部城市比一百年前安全一百倍。
en:So let me start with some good news.Fact is, we&#39;re living in the mostpeaceful moment in human history.Steven Pinker and others have shown howthe intensity and frequency of conflictis actually at an all-time low.Now, Gaza, Syria, Sudan, Ukraine,as ghastly as these conflicts are,and they are horrific,they represent a relativelysmall blip upwardsin a 50-year-long secular decline.What&#39;s more, we&#39;re seeinga dramatic reduction in homicide.Manuel Eisner and others have shownthat for centuries, we&#39;ve seenthis incredible drop in murder,especially in the West.Most Northern cities today are 100 timessafer than they were just 100 years ago.
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:武装冲突减少了，谋杀犯罪减少了，这是最为了不起的事实，若是旷古未有，亦是人类历史的成就，我们应该为此感到兴奋，对吧？没错，我们应该。只是有一个问题：这两个祸害还是跟着我们。大家看，每年有52.5万人，无论男女老少，死于暴力。我、基思•克劳斯和其他人在做的一个研究表明5到6万人死于战区暴力。其余大约50万人死于冲突区域之外。换而言之，非战争暴力致死的人数是战争致死的十倍。此外，暴力正往南部地区迁移，移往拉丁美洲、加勒比海地区，移往部分中非和南非地区，移往部分中东和中亚地区。世界上50个最危险的城市当中有40个就在拉丁美洲，13个在巴西，当中最最危险的，是圣佩德罗苏拉，洪都拉斯第二大城市，每10万人中就有187人被谋杀，凶杀率实为惊人，是世界平均值的23倍。
en:These two facts — the decline in armed conflict and the decline in murder —are amongst the most extraordinary,if unheralded, accomplishmentsof human history,and we should be really excited, right?Well, yeah, we should.There&#39;s just one problem:These two scourges are still with us.You see, 525,000 people —men, women, boys and girls —die violently every single year.Research I&#39;ve been doingwith Keith Krause and othershas shown that between 50,000 and 60,000people are dying in war zones violently.The rest, almost 500,000 people,are dying outside of conflict zones.In other words, 10 times more peopleare dying outside of war than inside war.What&#39;s more, violence is moving south,to Latin America and the Caribbean,to parts of Central and Southern Africa,and to bits of the Middle Eastand Central Asia.Forty of the 50 most dangerous cities in the worldare right here in Latin America,13 in Brazil,and the most dangerous of all, it&#39;s San Pedro Sula, Honduras&#39; second city,with a staggering homicide rateof 187 murders per 100,000 people.That&#39;s 23 times the global average.
时间： 5:19
zh-cn:如果暴力正在重新定位，它亦正按世界新地形重新定形，因为对于城市来说，地球不是平的，像托马斯•弗里德曼常说，世界尖锐棘手的很。城市主导城市生活主要方式是历史上最不寻常的人口结构逆转之一，而发生得惊人之快。大家都知道这些数字，对吧？现今世界人口73亿人；2050年将会有96亿人。但大家想想这一个现实：在18世纪，每三十个人中就有一个人住在城市，今天是每两个人有一个人住城市，将来基本每个人都住在城市。城市化的扩张既不会平坦，也不会公平。90%的城市变迁扩张会发生在南部地区，在南部的城市。
en:Now, if violence isre-concentrating geographically,it&#39;s also being reconfiguredto the world&#39;s new topography,because when it comes to cities,the world ain&#39;t flat,like Thomas Friedman likes to say.It&#39;s spiky.The dominance of the cityas the primary mode of urban livingis one of the most extraordinarydemographic reversals in history,and it all happened so fast.You all know the figures, right?There&#39;s 7.3 billion peoplein the world today;there will be 9.6 billion by 2050.But consider this one fact:In the 1800s, one in 30people lived in cities,today it&#39;s one in two,and tomorrow virtually everyoneis going to be there.And this expansion in urbanizationis going to be neither even nor equitable.The vast majority, 90 percent,will be happening in the South,in cities of the South.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:城市地理学家和人口学家告诉我们一个城市的大小或密度不一定会造成暴力。东京有3千5百万人口，是世界上最大的大都市之一，也被认为是最安全的大都市之一。与暴力相关的不是大小或密度，而是城市化的速度。我称之为涡轮城市化，脆弱性的关键驱动因素之一。
en:So urban geographers and demographers,they tell us that it&#39;s not necessarilythe size or even the density of citiesthat predicts violence, no.Tokyo, with 35 million people,is one of the largest, and some might saysafest, urban metropolises in the world.No, it&#39;s the speed ofurbanization that matters.I call this turbo-urbanization, and it&#39;s one of the key drivers of fragility.
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:你想到这些城市的惊人扩张，你再想想涡轮城市化，再想想卡拉奇。卡拉奇在1947年有约50万人，是一个繁忙的城市。今日，卡拉奇有2千1百万人，占有巴基斯坦GDP的三分之四，亦是南亚最暴力的城市之一。达卡、拉各斯、金沙萨现在这些城市比19世纪50年代时庞大40倍。
en:When you think about the incredibleexpansion of these cities,and you think about turbo-urbanization,think about Karachi.Karachi was about 500,000 people in 1947,a hustling, bustling city.Today, it&#39;s 21 million people,and apart from accountingfor three quarters of Pakistan&#39;s GDP,it&#39;s also one of the most violentcities in South Asia.Dhaka, Lagos, Kinshasa,these cities are now 40 times largerthan they were in the 1950s.
时间： 7:08
zh-cn:我们在看看纽约。纽约用了150年来收居八百万人。墨西哥城的圣保罗用来15年时间就做到了。
en:Now take a look at New York.The Big Apple, it took 150 yearsto get to eight million people.São Paulo, Mexico City, took 15to reach that same interval.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:这些超大中小城市是怎样的城市？这些城市的相貌如何？首先，这些城市都很年轻。许多城市都出现年轻人口膨胀。这算是好消息。因为这意味着幼儿死亡率下降了。但是年轻人口膨胀，我们得小心看待。简单来说，生活在脆弱城市中的年轻人比例比其他更健康富裕的城市的比例要高得多。在一些脆弱城市，75%人口年龄在30岁以下，想想：每四个人中就有三个在30岁以下。就像让帕罗奥图服用类固醇。看看索马里的首都摩加迪沙。在摩加迪沙，平均年龄是16岁。类似的有孟加拉的达卡、东帝汶的帝力、阿富汗的喀布尔。东京呢？平均年龄46岁。大部分西欧城市亦一样。不是年轻人就可以带来暴力。那只是多个因素中的其中之一，但如果青年，再加上失业、缺乏学历，如果还是男性青年，那就是不得了了。这些因素都在统计学上的相关因素所有风险因素发生在青年身上，会使暴力发生率上升。
en:Now, what do these medium,large, mega-, and hypercities look like?What is their profile?Well, for one thing, they&#39;re young.What we&#39;re seeing in many of themis the rise of the youth bulge.Now, this is actually a good news story.It&#39;s a function of reductionsin child mortality rates.But the youth bulge is somethingwe&#39;ve got to watch.What it basically meansis the proportion of young peopleliving in our fragile citiesis much larger than those living in our healthier and wealthier ones.In some fragile cities,75 percent of the populationis under the age of 30.Think about that:Three in four people are under 30.It&#39;s like Palo Alto on steroids.Now, if you look at Mogadishu for example,in Mogadishu the mean age is 16 years old.Ditto for Dhaka, Dili and Kabul.And Tokyo? It&#39;s 46.Same for most Western European cities.Now, it&#39;s not just youththat necessarily predicts violence.That&#39;s one factor among many,but youthfulness combinedwith unemployment, lack of education,and — this is the kicker — being male, is a deadly proposition.They&#39;re statistically correlated,all those risk factors, with youth,and they tend to relateto increases in violence.
时间： 8:35
zh-cn:在座如果有儿子出于青年阶段，就会懂我的意思。想象一下您的儿子，什么都没有，经常跟不守规矩的朋友在一起，四处闯闹。现在，想象他们没有父母的教导，没有教育背景，教育机会受到限制，在添点毒品、酒精、枪械，想想他们会变成怎样。后果可能是不堪设想的。在巴西，人均寿命是73.6岁。如果你住里约热内卢，抱歉，活少两岁。但要是你年轻、没受过教育、没有工作、是黑人、还是男性黑人，你的年均寿命只能直降到60岁以下。年轻和暴力是这个国家的头号杀手，这是有原因的。
en:Now, for those of you who areparents of teenage sons,you know what I&#39;m talking about, right?Just imagine your boywithout any structurewith those unruly friends of his,out there cavorting about.Now, take away the parents,take away the education,limit the education possibilities,sprinkle in a little bit of drugs,alcohol and guns,and sit back and watch the fireworks.The implications are disconcerting.Right here in Brazil,the life expectancy is 73.6 years.If you live in Rio, I&#39;m sorry,shave off two right there.But if you&#39;re young, you&#39;re uneducated,you lack employment,you&#39;re black, and you&#39;re male,your life expectancy dropsto less than 60 years old.There&#39;s a reason why youthfulnessand violence are the number one killersin this country.
时间： 9:24
zh-cn:城市不是那么不可救药。毕竟城市是创新的温床，充满活力、前景、刺激、人际关系。城市里都聚满了聪明人。而我刚刚所说的年轻人，他们认识的数码技术和技术比谁都多。知识爆炸、因特网、移动通信技术使南北部地区国家之间的数码技术差异逐步缩小，也使南北部地区国家内的数码技术差异逐步缩小。但这些新技术是双刃剑，这我们都耳熟能详。拿法律实施来举例。全球的警察开始使用遥感技术和海量数据来预测犯罪。一些警察能够在犯罪发生前就预测到罪犯的暴力行为。将来犯罪的场景，就在今天，我们需要小心提防。我们必须协调好公共安全问题防止个人隐私权利受到侵害。
en:Okay, so it&#39;s not all doomand gloom in our cities.After all, cities are hubs of innovation,dynamism, prosperity, excitement, connectivity.They&#39;re where the smart people gather.And those young people I just mentioned,they&#39;re more digitally savvyand tech-aware than ever before.And this explosion, the Internet,and mobile technology,means that the digital divideseparating the North and the Southbetween countriesand within them, is shrinking.But as we&#39;ve heard so many times,these new technologiesare dual-edged, right?Take the case of law enforcement.Police around the world are startingto use remote sensing and big datato anticipate crime.Some cops are able to predictcriminal violence before it even happens.The future crime scenario,it&#39;s here today,and we&#39;ve got to be careful.We have to manage the issuesof the public safetyagainst rights to individual privacy.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:在创新的，不只是警察。我们听过坊间社会团体的举办不少出众的活动，他们从事本地和全球的集体活动，可以引起数字化抗议和真实革命。但最令人担忧的是犯罪团体利用网络开始侵略网络空间。我在墨西哥的华雷斯城工作，那里的塞塔斯暴力犯罪集团和锡纳罗亚贩毒集团等集团，一直劫持社交媒体。他们利用社交媒体来招兵买马，贩卖他们的产品，胁迫、恐吓和杀害他人。暴力在走向虚拟世界。
en:But it&#39;s not just the copswho are innovating.We&#39;ve heard extraordinary activitiesof civil society groupswho are engaging in local and global collective action,and this is leading to digital protestand real revolution.But most worryingof all are criminal gangswho are going onlineand starting to colonize cyberspace.In Ciudad Juárez in Mexico,where I&#39;ve been working,groups like the Zetasand the Sinaloa cartelare hijacking social media.They&#39;re using it to recruit,to sell their products,to coerce, to intimidate and to kill.Violence is going virtual.
时间：10:52
zh-cn:现今形势多变复杂这不过是其中一面。超级风险还有许多，并且会直接影响我们时代的脆弱性，也会影响当今的收入不均、贫穷、气候变化、罪犯逍遥法外等问题。但我们面临着一个严峻的窘境：有些城市会繁荣发展促进全球的进步，但也有城市会跌跌绊绊拉大家的后腿。如果要改变这种现象，我们需要开展新对话。我们不能只关注那些发展好的城市，像新加坡、吉隆坡、杜拜、上海；我们要与脆弱城市对话。
en:So this is just a partial sketchof a fast-moving and dynamicand complex situation.I mean, there are many other megarisksthat are going to definefragility in our time,not least income inequality,poverty, climate change, impunity.But we&#39;re facing a stark dilemmawhere some cities are going to thriveand drive global growthand others are going to stumbleand pull it backwards.If we&#39;re going to change course,we need to start a conversation.We can&#39;t only focuson those cities that work,the Singapores, the Kuala Lumpurs,the Dubais, the Shanghais.We&#39;ve got to bring those fragile citiesinto the conversation.
时间：11:31
zh-cn:方法之一可以是将我们较健康富有的城市与较脆弱的城市结对，开展相互学习合作的过程，分享经验，分享成功与失败。一个很好的例子是萨尔瓦多和洛杉矶。圣萨尔瓦多市长和洛杉矶市长携手合作组织前犯罪团体成员与目前的犯罪团体成员一起，开放教育班、提供教育、并且不断劝谕停火停战，圣萨尔瓦多的凶杀率显著下降了，过去世界上最暴力的城市，凶杀率下降五成。我们也可以关注热门城市、热门地点。地点对城市暴力形成有着根本影响。在座是否知道脆弱城市中1-2%的街道可以预测该城市99%的暴力犯罪。拿我生活的圣保罗为例。过去这是巴西最危险的城市，现在确实最安全的城市，方法是将加大力量，双倍增加信息收集、热点绘图、警方改革，在十年内凶杀率因此下降70%。我们也需要关注热点人物。年轻、失业、无教育、男性虽然不幸，但却可增加凶杀机率。我们必须打破这条暴力链，早期与儿童和青年相处，稳定他们，而不是侮辱他们。最近我在致力的一项工作在牙买加的金斯敦、在里约热内卢，将教育、就业、娱乐带给这些高风险人群，因此这些社区的暴力下降了。
en:One way to do this might beto start twinningour fragile cities with our healthierand wealthier ones,kickstarting a process of learningand collaborationand sharing of practices,of what works and what doesn&#39;t.A wonderful example of this is comingfrom El Salvador and Los Angeles,where the mayors in San Salvadorand Los Angeles are collaboratingon getting ex-gang membersto work with current gang members,offering tutoring, education,and in the process are helpingincubate cease-fires and truces,and we&#39;ve seen homicide ratesgo down in San Salvador,once the world&#39;s most violent city,by 50 percent.We can also focus on hot cities, but also hot spots.Place and location matter fundamentallyin shaping violence in our cities.Did you know that betweenone and two percentof street addresses in any fragile citycan predict up to 99 percentof violent crime?Take the case of São Paulo,where I&#39;ve been working.It&#39;s gone from being Brazil&#39;s mostdangerous city to one of its safest,and it did this by doubling downon information collection,hot spot mapping, and police reform,and in the process, it dropped homicideby 70 percent in just over 10 years.We also got to focus on those hot people.It&#39;s tragic, but being young,unemployed, uneducated, male,increases the risksof being killed and killing.We have to break this cycle of violenceand get in there early with our children,our youngest children,and valorize them, not stigmatize them.There&#39;s wonderful work that&#39;s happeningthat I&#39;ve been involved within Kingston, Jamaicaand right here in Rio,which is putting education,employment, recreationup front for these high-risk groups,and as a result, we&#39;re seeing violencegoing down in their communities.
时间：13:12
zh-cn:我们也发现城市变得更加安全，更加包容，更加宜居。事实是，社会凝聚力相当重要。流动性对城市相当重要。我们必须要让我们的城市远离种族隔离、排斥他人的模式。一个很好的例子是麦德林。九十年代末我住在哥伦比亚，麦德林是当时世界经典的凶杀城市，但是这个城市后来改变了，这是因为刻意投资在低收入高暴力的地区与中产阶级社区相融合，通过缆车网络的接驳、公共交通的联系、一流基础设施的投入，该城市在二十年内凶杀率下降79%。
en:We&#39;ve also got to make our cities safer,more inclusive, and livable for all.The fact is, social cohesion matters.Mobility matters in our cities.We&#39;ve got to get away from this modelof segregation, exclusion,and cities with walls.My favorite example of how to do thiscomes from Medellín.When I lived in Colombiain the late 1990s,Medellín was the murder capital of the world, but it changed course,and it did this by deliberately investingin its low-income and most violent areasand integrating themwith the middle-class onesthrough a network of cable cars,of public transport,and first-class infrastructure,and in the process, it dropped homicideby 79 percent in just under two decades.
时间：13:51
zh-cn:最后，还有技术。技术有巨大的好处，也有巨大的危害。我们举了一些创新例子，很多都是出自这个房间。警察致力于预测分析。市民致力于新的公众解决方案。我自己的团队也在开发程序，提供更多可信破案资讯，为市民带来更多安全。但是我们需要小心提防。
en:And finally, there&#39;s technology.Technology has enormouspromise but also peril.We&#39;ve seen examples hereof extraordinary innovation,and much of it coming from this room,The police are engaging in predictive analytics.Citizens are engagingin new crowdsourcing solutions.Even my own group is involvedin developing applicationsto provide more accountability over policeand increase safety among citizens.But we need to be careful.
时间：14:16
zh-cn:如果我可以向您传达一个信息，那会是：暴力致死不是不可避免的，我们可以将城市变得更安全。在座各位，我们现在有机会在我们有生之年将凶杀率减少一半。所以我只有一个问题：我们还在等什么？
en:If I have one singlemessage for you, it&#39;s this:There is nothing inevitableabout lethal violence,and we can make our cities safer.Folks, we have the opportunityof a lifetime to drop homicidal violencein half within our lifetime.So I have just one question:What are we waiting for?
时间：14:40
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:42
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
