时间： 0:18
zh-cn:（音乐）（掌声）
en:(Music)(Applause)
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:非常感谢。（掌声）谢谢。能在这里演出是我的荣幸。
en:Thank you very much. (Applause)Thank you. It&#39;s a distinct privilege to be here.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:几个星期前，我在YouTube上看到一段视频女性众议员Gabrielle Giffords因为受伤而接受治疗她受伤的原因是被子弹打中。一颗打中她的左脑半球，进入布洛克区，那是大脑的语言中枢区域。在治疗初期， Gabby找一位语言治疗师她要说简单的字也很困难你可以看到她感觉越来越绝望，到最后她奔溃了，眼泪掉了下来她在治疗师的怀抱中无言地呜咽过了一会儿，治疗师尝试新的方法他们一起唱起歌来Gabby 唱起歌，就不哭了可以听到她清晰的发音这首歌的歌词正好描述了她的心情她不停的唱，用下降的音调，不停唱着&quot;让它闪烁，让它闪烁，让它闪烁。&quot;这件事有力地提醒我们，美妙的音乐可以表达的是语言无法做到的，我指的是说话的语言。
en:A few weeks ago, I saw a video on YouTubeof Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffordsat the early stages of her recoveryfrom one of those awful bullets.This one entered her left hemisphere, andknocked out her Broca&#39;s area, the speech center of her brain.And in this session, Gabby&#39;s working with a speech therapist,and she&#39;s struggling to producesome of the most basic words, and you can see hergrowing more and more devastated, until she ultimatelybreaks down into sobbing tears, and she starts sobbingwordlessly into the arms of her therapist.And after a few moments, her therapist tries a new tack,and they start singing together,and Gabby starts to sing through her tears,and you can hear her clearly able to enunciatethe words to a song that describe the way she feels,and she sings, in one descending scale, she sings,&quot;Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine.&quot;And it&#39;s a very powerful and poignant reminder of howthe beauty of music has the ability to speakwhere words fail, in this case literally speak.
时间： 3:48
zh-cn:Gabby Giffords的视频让我想到Gottfried Schlaug博士的研究他是哈佛最德高望重的神经学家之一，研究音乐和大脑Schlaug支持一个治疗方法那就是旋律语调疗法，是现在很流行的音乐疗法。Schlaug 发现他中风的病人失语了，无法组成3个字或4个字的句子但他们仍然能唱歌曲的歌词可能是&quot;祝您生日快乐&quot;或他们钟爱的老鹰乐队或滚石乐队的歌曲。经过70小时密集的歌唱课程他发现音乐真的可以在病人大脑中建立新的连接，在右半脑中建立类似语言中枢的区域来弥补左半球的伤害
en:Seeing this video of Gabby Giffords reminded meof the work of Dr. Gottfried Schlaug,one of the preeminent neuroscientists studying music and the brain at Harvard,and Schlaug is a proponent of a therapy calledMelodic Intonation Therapy, which has become very popular in music therapy now.Schlaug found that his stroke victims who were aphasic,could not form sentences of three- or four-word sentences,but they could still sing the lyrics to a song,whether it was &quot;Happy Birthday To You&quot;or their favorite song by the Eagles or the Rolling Stones.And after 70 hours of intensive singing lessons,he found that the music was able to literally rewirethe brains of his patients and create a homologousspeech center in their right hemisphereto compensate for the left hemisphere&#39;s damage.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:我 17 岁时，参观了 Schlaug 博士的实验室那天下午，他给我简单介绍了在音乐和大脑方面最领先的研究结果— — 音乐家和非音乐家的大脑结构完全不同音乐和聆听音乐是如何开启我们整个脑部，范围包括前额叶到小脑音乐是如何应用到神经精神方法中来帮助自闭症儿童，以及生活在压力、焦虑、犹豫中的人听音乐时，帕金森病患者会感到抽搐减轻了，行走更稳定了末期老人痴呆病人的痴呆程度发展到他们无法认出自己的家人可是却能够在感情上演奏萧邦的曲子这是他们还是孩子时学习的曲子
en:When I was 17, I visited Dr. Schlaug&#39;s lab, and in one afternoonhe walked me through some of the leading researchon music and the brain — how musicians hadfundamentally different brain structure than non-musicians,how music, and listening to music,could just light up the entire brain, fromour prefrontal cortex all the way back to our cerebellum,how music was becoming a neuropsychiatric modalityto help children with autism, to help people strugglingwith stress and anxiety and depression,how deeply Parkinsonian patients would find that their tremorand their gait would steady when they listened to music,and how late-stage Alzheimer&#39;s patients, whose dementiawas so far progressed that they could no longer recognizetheir family, could still pick out a tune by Chopinat the piano that they had learned when they were children.
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:我拜访Schlaug时，带着另一个的动机那时 我正处于人生的十字路口，需要在音乐和医学之间做出选择。我刚刚完成了我的本科，开始工作担任Dennis Selkoe的研究助理他在哈佛研究帕金森症，我深爱神经科学我想成为一名外科医生。生像Paul Farmer或Rick Hodes那样的医生他们是无畏的人，前往海地、埃塞俄比亚那样的地方帮助得了抗药性肺结核的艾滋病人，或是帮助我想成为红十字会医生，无国界医生另一方面，我一生都在演奏小提琴
en:But I had an ulterior motive of visiting Gottfried Schlaug,and it was this: that I was at a crossroads in my life,trying to choose between music and medicine.I had just completed my undergraduate, and I was workingas a research assistant at the lab of Dennis Selkoe,studying Parkinson&#39;s disease at Harvard, and I had fallenin love with neuroscience. I wanted to become a surgeon.I wanted to become a doctor like Paul Farmer or Rick Hodes,these kind of fearless men who go into places like Haiti or Ethiopiaand work with AIDS patients with multidrug-resistanttuberculosis, or with children with disfiguring cancers.I wanted to become that kind of Red Cross doctor,that doctor without borders.On the other hand, I had played the violin my entire life.
时间： 6:08
zh-cn:激情不足以形容我对音乐的痴迷。它是氧气。我非常幸运在曼哈顿茱莉亚音乐学院学习我的处女秀在特拉维夫，和祖宾 · 梅塔和和特拉维夫以色列爱乐乐团同台其实Gottfried Schlaug曾经在维也纳音乐学院学研究管风琴专业但他放弃了对音乐的热爱，致力医学事业那天下午，我不得不问他，&quot;您是如何作出这个决定的?&quot;
en:Music for me was more than a passion. It was obsession.It was oxygen. I was lucky enough to have studiedat the Juilliard School in Manhattan, and to have playedmy debut with Zubin Mehta and the Israeli philharmonic orchestra in Tel Aviv,and it turned out that Gottfried Schlaughad studied as an organist at the Vienna Conservatory,but had given up his love for music to pursue a careerin medicine. And that afternoon, I had to ask him,&quot;How was it for you making that decision?&quot;
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:他说，有好几次，他希望自己能回去像以前一样演奏管风琴对我来说，医学院可以先等等但小提琴不可以等两年的音乐学习后，我决定我要去考MCAT，像是一个印度好孩子一样，申请医学院要成为下一个古普塔博士。（笑声）我决定挑战不可能的事我报名了著名洛杉矶爱乐乐团的甄选。这是我第一次甄选，在试演的礼拜我在幕后演奏了三天，最后我得到了乐团的工作那像一场梦。那是一个狂野的梦在交响乐团演奏，在圣殿级的沃尔特 · 迪斯尼音乐厅演奏由著名的Gustavo Dudamel指挥的乐团中演出，更重要的是，围绕在我身边的是即将成为我新的家人的音乐家和导师我的音乐之家
en:And he said that there were still times when he wishedhe could go back and play the organ the way he used to,and that for me, medical school could wait,but that the violin simply would not.And after two more years of studying music, I decidedto shoot for the impossible before taking the MCATand applying to medical school like a good Indian sonto become the next Dr. Gupta. (Laughter)And I decided to shoot for the impossible and I tookan audition for the esteemed Los Angeles Philharmonic.It was my first audition, and after three days of playingbehind a screen in a trial week, I was offered the position.And it was a dream. It was a wild dream to performin an orchestra, to perform in the iconic Walt Disney Concert Hallin an orchestra conducted now by the famous Gustavo Dudamel,but much more importantly to me to be surroundedby musicians and mentors that became my new family,my new musical home.
时间： 7:30
zh-cn:但一年后，我遇到了另一位音乐家他也曾就读茱莉亚，他帮助了我很多帮我找到自己的琴声，和音乐家的个性Nathaniel Ayers曾经在茱莉亚学习双重贝斯，但是在他 20 岁出头时，他患上一系列精神问题需要服用贝尔维，作为镇静剂治疗此后的30年中，他在洛杉矶市中心Skid Row 的街头无家可归Nathaniel的故事已成为整个美国帮助流浪者和精神健康运动的典型例子在《独奏者》这本书和同名电影讲的就是他的故事但我成了他的朋友，还是他的小提琴老师，我告诉他，无论何处，只要他带着他的琴我带着我的琴，我就会给他上课，
en:But a year later, I met another musician who had alsostudied at Juilliard, one who profoundly helped mefind my voice and shaped my identity as a musician.Nathaniel Ayers was a double bassist at Juilliard, buthe suffered a series of psychotic episodes in his early 20s,was treated with thorazine at Bellevue,and ended up living homeless on the streets of Skid Rowin downtown Los Angeles 30 years later.Nathaniel&#39;s story has become a beacon for homelessnessand mental health advocacy throughout the United States,as told through the book and the movie &quot;The Soloist,&quot;but I became his friend, and I became his violin teacher,and I told him that wherever he had his violin,and wherever I had mine, I would play a lesson with him.
时间： 8:14
zh-cn:很多次，我在Skid Row看到Nathaniel，我亲眼目睹了音乐如何把他从最黑暗的时期，拯救回来那是在我这个没受训练的人看来他像是精神分裂症的前期。为Nathaniel的演奏，音乐有了更深一层的含义，因为它像是沟通这个沟通无法用语言传达，信息比语言到达地更深层，达到了Nathaniel的心灵中真我的层次对我来说，也是音乐真正的馈赠我发现自己对流浪者的现象越来越气愤，Nathaniel因为精神疾病无家可归，像他一样，Skid Row里成千上百的人独自流浪街头他们之所以流浪，也有背后悲惨的故事，但没能写成书，拍成电影在我人生危机最急迫的时候，我感到，音乐人生选择了我，或许可能很天真的意义上来说，我觉得Skid Row真正需要的是Paul Farmer那样的医生而不是Bunker Hill的古典音乐家。
en:And on the many times I saw Nathaniel on Skid Row,I witnessed how music was able to bring him backfrom his very darkest moments, from what seemed to mein my untrained eye to bethe beginnings of a schizophrenic episode.Playing for Nathaniel, the music took on a deeper meaning,because now it was about communication,a communication where words failed, a communicationof a message that went deeper than words, that registeredat a fundamentally primal level in Nathaniel&#39;s psyche,yet came as a true musical offering from me.I found myself growing outraged that someonelike Nathaniel could have ever been homeless on Skid Rowbecause of his mental illness, yet how many tens of thousandsof others there were out there on Skid Row alonewho had stories as tragic as his, but were never going to have a book or a moviemade about them that got them off the streets?And at the very core of this crisis of mine, I felt somehowthe life of music had chosen me, where somehow,perhaps possibly in a very naive sense, I felt what Skid Rowreally needed was somebody like Paul Farmerand not another classical musician playing on Bunker Hill.
时间： 9:28
zh-cn:但最终，是Nathaniel告诉了我我是否真的要转到另一个领域如果我要选择换一条路，我已经有最好的工具帮助我那就是音乐，连接着我和他世界的桥梁。
en:But in the end, it was Nathaniel who showed methat if I was truly passionate about change,if I wanted to make a difference, I already had the perfect instrument to do it,that music was the bridge that connected my world and his.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:有一句美丽的名言是德国浪漫派作曲家罗伯特·舒曼说的“用光照亮人们内心的黑暗，”“这是艺术家的责任。”其实这句名言的背后也有残酷的故事因为舒曼自己受精神分裂症煎熬，最后在庇护所去世我从Nathaniel那里学到的东西驱使我开始组建一个由Skid Row 流浪音乐家组成的组织称为“街交响乐团”，为的是用音乐之光照亮最黑暗的地方，为Skid Row庇护所和诊所中的无家可归者和精神病人表演为患有创伤后遗症的退伍老兵表演为在监狱里服刑，为那些有犯罪精神问题的人表演
en:There&#39;s a beautiful quoteby the Romantic German composer Robert Schumann,who said, &quot;To send light into the darkness of men&#39;s hearts,such is the duty of the artist.&quot;And this is a particularly poignant quotebecause Schumann himself suffered from schizophreniaand died in asylum.And inspired by what I learned from Nathaniel,I started an organization on Skid Row of musicianscalled Street Symphony, bringing the light of musicinto the very darkest places, performingfor the homeless and mentally ill at shelters and clinicson Skid Row, performing for combat veteranswith post-traumatic stress disorder, and for the incarceratedand those labeled as criminally insane.
时间：10:25
zh-cn:我们去圣贝纳迪诺巴顿州立医院表演结束后，一名女子走到我们跟前泪珠顺着她的脸留下来，她患有麻痹症，会不停地在颤抖，她笑得很灿烂，她告诉我们，她之前从没通过古典音乐，她觉得自己不会喜欢，没有我们的话，她永远不会听到小提琴，但我们的音乐像是阳光一般，之前从未有人来过，这是六年来的头一次她听到我们的演奏，即使没有服药，她停止了颤抖。
en:After one of our events at the Patton State Hospitalin San Bernardino, a woman walked up to usand she had tears streaming down her face,and she had a palsy, she was shaking,and she had this gorgeous smile, and she saidthat she had never heard classical music before,she didn&#39;t think she was going to like it, she had neverheard a violin before, but that hearing this music was like hearing the sunshine,and that nobody ever came to visit them, and that for the first time in six years,when she heard us play, she stopped shaking without medication.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:突然间，我们找到了演奏会舞台，灯光，燕尾服音乐家成为强大的治疗渠道把有利于治疗的音乐传送到听众的大脑里这些听众以前是不可能听到我们演奏的这种音乐这样的音乐就像良药它的治愈效果不仅仅是修补身体它的力量和美超越了“E”“E”是我们敬爱的人的首字母缩写中间的那个字母音乐超越了单独的审美听到瓦格纳的歌剧、勃拉姆斯的交响乐，或贝多芬的室内乐会体验到步调一致的感情，·这必定会唤起我们的记忆那是我们共享的共通的人性，互相紧密意识联结，和同情心根据神经心理学家Iain McGilchrist，以上这些在我们的右脑中是天生的那些在最差的条件下生活的患有精神疾病的流浪汉和监狱犯人音乐和音乐的美提供他们机会，看到他们世界以外的东西让他们知道，他们任由能力体验美妙的事物，社会没有遗忘他们音乐的美，人性的美的火花转化成希望我们知道，无理论我们选择音乐事业，或医学事业，首要一点是我们渗透到我们的社区和观众中这样才能启发从内而外治疗
en:Suddenly, what we&#39;re finding with these concerts,away from the stage, away from the footlights, outof the tuxedo tails, the musicians become the conduitfor delivering the tremendous therapeutic benefitsof music on the brain to an audience that would neverhave access to this room,would never have access to the kind of music that we make.Just as medicine serves to heal morethan the building blocks of the body alone,the power and beauty of music transcends the &quot;E&quot;in the middle of our beloved acronym.Music transcends the aesthetic beauty alone.The synchrony of emotions that we experience when wehear an opera by Wagner, or a symphony by Brahms,or chamber music by Beethoven, compels us to rememberour shared, common humanity, the deeply communalconnected consciousness, the empathic consciousnessthat neuropsychiatrist Iain McGilchrist says is hard-wiredinto our brain&#39;s right hemisphere.And for those living in the most dehumanizing conditionsof mental illness within homelessnessand incarceration, the music and the beauty of musicoffers a chance for them to transcend the world around them,to remember that they still have the capacity to experiencesomething beautiful and that humanity has not forgotten them.And the spark of that beauty, the spark of that humanitytransforms into hope,and we know, whether we choose the path of musicor of medicine, that&#39;s the very first thing we must instillwithin our communities, within our audiences,if we want to inspire healing from within.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:我要用英国浪漫诗人约翰·济慈的一句名言结束我的演讲我相信你们都知道这句著名的名言济慈当年同样放弃了医学事业投生诗歌创作，但他去世的年纪，比我现在的年龄大一岁济慈说，&quot;美是真理，真相是美。这是你们所知道的地球，和你们需要知道的全部。（音乐）（掌声）
en:I&#39;d like to end with a quote by John Keats,the Romantic English poet,a very famous quote that I&#39;m sure all of you know.Keats himself had also given up a career in medicineto pursue poetry, but he died when he was a year older than me.And Keats said, &quot;Beauty is truth, and truth beauty.That is all ye know on Earth, and all ye need to know.&quot;(Music)(Applause)
