时间： 0:11
zh-cn:请听第一个问题。美国有两个探险计划。一个是美国宇航局的，担负着探索来世、探索天堂的使命。要是幸运的话，我们都想去。你们可以发现，我们有人造地球卫星，我们有“土星”运载火箭，还有空间探险的其他证明。噢，对了，在我们政府的另一个机构里，还有另外一个计划——海洋勘探。海洋勘探由NOAA,也就是国家海洋与大气管理局负责。我的问题是：我们为什么忽视海洋？理由是，或者不成其为理由，只是我为什么要问这个问题的理由。美国宇航局探测太空的年度预算与国家海洋与大气管理局的预算比起来，足够海洋勘探计划进行1,600年。为什么？为什么我们总是抬头望天？是因为天堂在上，而地狱在下？这是一个文化问题吗？为什么人们害怕海洋？或者，他们只是在推测，海洋不过是一个黑暗、沉闷、没有什么东西可以给我们的地方？
en:The first question is this.Our country has two exploration programs.One is NASA, with a mission to explore the great beyond,to explore the heavens, which we all want to go to if we&#39;re lucky.And you can see we have Sputnik, and we have Saturn,and we have other manifestations of space exploration.Well, there&#39;s also another program,in another agency within our government, in ocean exploration.It&#39;s in NOAA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.And my question is this: &quot;why are we ignoring the oceans?&quot;Here&#39;s the reason, or not the reason, but here&#39;s why I ask that question.If you compare NASA&#39;s annual budget to explore the heavens,that one-year budget would fund NOAA&#39;s budgetto explore the oceans for 1,600 years.Why? Why are we looking up? Is it because it&#39;s heaven?And hell is down here? Is it a cultural issue?Why are people afraid of the ocean?Or do they just assume the ocean is just a dark, gloomy placethat has nothing to offer?
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:我要带你们到占地球表面积百分之72的地方进行16分钟的旅行，好了，请系好安全带。很好。下面我们将要做的，就是要把我们自己沉浸在我的世界里。而且我打算尝试，我希望解释以下几点。我打算现在就解释，以免忘了。我将要呈现到你们面前的一切，不在我念书时的教科书里。尤其是，甚至不在我的大学教科书里。我是一个地球物理学者，我还是一名学生的时候，就学了所有的地球科学教科书，为了得到一个A,我不得不给出一个错误的答案。我们过去常常嘲笑大陆漂移说。那是我们曾经嘲笑的东西。我们学了马歇尔.凯的构造循环，那就是一派胡言乱语。在今天的语境中，它是一派胡言。但当时它就是地质学定律，即地壳垂直运动构造理论。在我们进行海洋探险和发现的整个过程中，大多数发现都是偶然得到的。大多数发现纯系偶然。我们在寻找某件东西，却发现了别的东西。而我们将要谈到的一切不过是冰山一角，因为这就是我们所看到的全部。
en:I&#39;m going to take you on a 16-minute trip on 72 percent of the planet, so buckle up.OK. And what we&#39;re going to dois we&#39;re going to immerse ourselves in my world.And what I&#39;m going to try — I hope I make the following points.I&#39;m going to make it right now in case I forget.Everything I&#39;m going to present to youwas not in my textbooks when I went to school.And most of all, it was not even in my college textbooks.I&#39;m a geophysicist, and all my Earth science books when I was a student —I had to give the wrong answer to get an A.We used to ridicule continental drift. It was something we laughed at.We learned of Marshall Kay&#39;s geosynclinal cycle, which is a bunch of crap.In today&#39;s context, it was a bunch of crap,but it was the law of geology, vertical tectonics.All the things we&#39;re going to walk throughin our explorations and discoveries of the oceanswere mostly discoveries made by accident.Mostly discoveries made by accident.We were looking for something and found something else.And everything we&#39;re going to talk aboutrepresents a one tenth of one percent glimpse, because that&#39;s all we&#39;ve seen.
时间： 2:30
zh-cn:我这儿有一个描绘。如果你能去掉水，它看起来就是这个样子。你以为这是一张地图。这不是地图。事实上，我办公室有另一个版本，我会问大家：“为什么这片区域有山脉，但这上方什么也没有哇？”他们会走上前，“什么？咦！不知道，”他们答道。“这是一个断裂带吗？是一个热点吗？”不，不，这只是一艘船所在的地方。南半球大多数地方尚未勘探。库克船长时代去那些海域探险的船只比现在要多。这太令人吃惊了。很好，现在我们要沉浸到占地球表面积72%的地方去了，你知道，认为复活节兔子会把所有的资源都放到欧洲，这种想法实在是太天真了。
en:I have a characterization.This is a characterization of what it would look like if you could remove the water.It gives you the false impression it&#39;s a map.It is not a map.In fact, I have another version at my officeand I ask people, &quot;Why are there mountains here, on this area here,but there are none over here?&quot; And they go, &quot;Well, gee,I don&#39;t know,&quot; saying,&quot;Is it a fracture zone? Is it a hot spot?&quot;No, no, that&#39;s the only place a ship&#39;s been.Most of the southern hemisphere is unexplored.We had more exploration ships down thereduring Captain Cook&#39;s time than now. It&#39;s amazing.All right. So we&#39;re going to immerse ourselvesin the 72 percent of the planet because, you know,it&#39;s really naive to think that the Easter Bunnyput all the resources on the continents.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:你知道，这简直是荒谬的。我们总是在不断地玩着零和游戏。要知道，我们打算把它从某些别的东西上拿开。我相信，经济就要充实起来。而我们竟要把占地球表面积72%，如此巨大的版图，闲置起来。同样地，在稍后的报告中，我将指出，美利坚合众国的50%，躺在海底。对国家的这50%，我们有着全部的合法的管辖权，这片我们想干什么就干什么的版图，竟然躺在海底，因为我们有比这50%更好的火星地图！为什么？好了，现在，我开始了我艰难的探索之旅。回到那时——实际上，我的第一次探险是在我17岁的时候。那是49年前。我算算，我现在是66岁了。那时我们乘着一艘小船出海，我们几乎在巨浪中沉没，我的确是太年轻了，你知道，我觉得真是棒极了！我是个冲浪运动员，这时我想，“哇，真是难以置信的大浪！”我们差点把船弄沉，但我却为越来越多的探险而欣喜若狂。在过去的整整49年中，我已进行了大约120次、121次探险，我没间断地在做这件事。
en:You know, it&#39;s just ludicrous.We are always, constantly playing the zero sum game.You know, we&#39;re going to do this, we&#39;re going to take it away from something else.I believe in just enriching the economy.And we&#39;re leaving so much on the table, 72 percent of the planet.And as I will point out later in the presentation,50 percent of the United States of America lies beneath the sea.50 percent of our country that we own, have all legal jurisdiction,have all rights to do whatever we want, lies beneath the seaand we have better maps of Mars than that 50 percent.Why? OK. Now, I began my explorations the hard way.Back then — actually my first expeditionwas when I was 17 years old. It was 49 years ago.Do the math, I&#39;m 66. And I went out to sea on a Scripps shipand we almost got sunk by a giant rogue wave,and I was too young to be — you know, I thought it was great!I was a body surfer and I thought, &quot;Wow, that was an incredible wave!&quot;And we almost sank the ship, but I became enrapturedwith mounting expeditions. And over the last 49 years,I&#39;ve done about 120, 121 — I keep doing them — expeditions.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:但早年，我能够去到海底的唯一途径就是爬进一艘潜艇，一艘很小的潜艇，然后下到海底。我潜过全部不同的深潜器。阿尔文号、海崖号和喜鹊号，以及我们拥有的全部主要的深潜器，大约8艘。事实上，在一个风和日丽的日子，我们可能有四、五个人在地球的平均深度上——也许是几十亿人中的四、五个人开始行动了。所以如果你真要行动，到那儿去，那是非常困难的。但我却喜不自胜，因为我毕业的年代正处在板块构造学的萌芽期。那时我们意识到地球上最大的山脉躺在海底。
en:But in the early days, the only way I could get to the bottomwas to crawl into a submarine, a very small submarine,and go down to the bottom.I dove in a whole series of different deep diving submersibles.Alvin and Sea Cliff and Cyana,and all the major deep submersibles we have, which are about eight.In fact, on a good day, we might have four or five human beingsat the average depth of the Earth —maybe four or five human beings out of whatever billions we&#39;ve got going.And so it&#39;s very difficult to get there, if you do it physically.But I was enraptured, and in my graduate yearswas the dawn of plate tectonics. And we realizedthat the greatest mountain range on Earth lies beneath the sea.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:大洋中脊就像环绕在棒球上的接缝。这是在墨卡托投影上。但要是你要把它放到一个等积投影上，你就会发现，大洋中脊覆盖了地球总表面积的23%。我们这个行星的几乎四分之一是一条单独的山脉，然而，直到尼尔.阿姆斯特朗和巴兹·奥尔德林登月之后，我们才进入这条山脉。所以，在去到我们自己的行星上最大的地貌之前，我们就到了月球，在那上面玩高尔夫了。在那些日子里，做为地球科学家，我们之所以对于这条山脉感兴趣，不仅由于它的在这个行星上硕大无朋，而且由于它在地球外壳的起源上所起的作用。因为这条山脉的走向正沿着大洋中脊的轴线，在那儿，巨大的地壳板块正在分裂。就像一个活体，你把它撕开，它流着炽热的鲜血，奋起治愈岩流圈的创伤，然后变硬，形成新的组织，再向两侧运动。
en:The mid-ocean ridge runs around like the seam on a baseball.This is on a Mercator projection.But if you were to put it on an equal area projection,you&#39;d see that the mid-ocean ridge covers 23 percentof the Earth&#39;s total surface area.Almost a quarter of our planet is a single mountain rangeand we didn&#39;t enter it until after Neil Armstrongand Buzz Aldrin went to the moon.So we went to the moon, played golf up there,before we went to the largest feature on our own planet.And our interest in this mountain range, as Earth scientists in those days,was not only because of its tremendous size, dominating the planet,but the role it plays in the genesis of the Earth&#39;s outer skin.Because it&#39;s along the axis of the mid-ocean ridgewhere the great crustal plates are separating.And like a living organism, you tear it open,it bleeds its molten blood, rises up to heal that woundfrom the asthenosphere, hardens, forms new tissue and moves laterally.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:但没有人能真的下去，进入那个撕裂的边界的现场进入我们称为大裂谷的地方——直到1973年和1974年的夏天，我们一行7人爬进小潜艇，于是，我们成为进入大裂谷的第一批人。我们潜到海底进入大裂谷，除了一件事——这里一片漆黑，一切都准确无误。这里是绝对的黑暗，因为光子无法到达海洋的平均深度——12,000英尺。大裂谷是9,000英尺。地球的大部分地方感觉不到太阳的温暖。我们行星的大部分区域处于永恒的黑暗中。因此，在深海没有光合作用。由于没有光合作用，就没有植物，因此，也就极少有动物生活在这片深海中。我们大概就是这样想的。所以在我们最初的探险中，我们把全部精力集中在勘测正在形成的边界上，研究贯穿整个42,000英里的火山地貌。在这整个42,000英里的延伸线上，是数以万计的活火山。数以万计的活火山。海底比陆上有多两个数量级的活火山。所以，这里显然是一个非常活跃的区域，而非一个黑暗乏味的地方。这是一个很有生气的地方。但那时，它正在被撕裂开。
en:But no one had actually gone downinto the actual site of the boundary of creation as we call it —into the Rift Valley — until a group of seven of uscrawled in our little submarines in the summer of 1973, 1974and were the first human beings to enter the Great Rift Valley.We went down into the Rift Valley.This is all accurate except for one thing — it&#39;s pitch black.It&#39;s absolutely pitch black, becausephotons cannot reach the average depth of the ocean,which is 12,000 feet. In the Rift Valley, it&#39;s 9,000 feet.Most of our planet does not feel the warmth of the sun.Most of our planet is in eternal darkness.And for that reason, you do not have photosynthesis in the deep sea.And with the absence of photosynthesisyou have no plant life, and as a result,you have very little animal life living in this underworld.Or so we thought. And so in our initial explorations,we were totally focused on exploring the boundary of creation,looking at the volcanic features running along that entire 42,000 miles.Running along this entire 42,000 milesare tens of thousands of active volcanoes.Tens of thousands of active volcanoes.There are more active volcanoes beneath the seathan on land by two orders of magnitude.So, it&#39;s a phenomenally active region,it&#39;s not just a dark, boring place. It&#39;s a very alive place.And it&#39;s then being ripped open.
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:但回到那时，我们正涉及到一个特殊的科学问题。我们无法理解，为什么张力下会产生一座山脉。在板块构造理论中，我们知道，如果板块相撞，这讲得通，它们会相互挤压进对方，外壳会变厚，会抬高。这就是为什么，你知道，你会在珠峰上捡到海贝的原因。它不是因为洪水，它是被推上那儿的。我们理解挤压作用下的山脉，但我们无法理解为什么张力下也会形成山脉。不应该是这样的。直到我的一位同事说，“在我看来，这就像是一个热气泡，大洋中脊一定是一条冷却曲线。”我们说，“我们去找。”我们施放了大量探热仪。一切都顺理成章，除了在轴线上有丢失热的现象外。它正在丢失热。它是热的，但不够热。所以我们提出了多种假设，有小绿人在那儿带走了热。各种各样的事情都在发生。但唯一符合逻辑的解释还是热泉。所以一定是有水下热泉。
en:But we were dealing with a particular scientific issue back then.We couldn&#39;t understand why you had a mountain under tension.In plate tectonic theory, we knew that if you had plates collide,it made sense: they would crush into one another,you would thicken the crust, you&#39;d uplift it.That&#39;s why you get, you know, you get seashells up on Mount Everest.It&#39;s not a flood, it was pushed up there.We understood mountains under compression,but we could not understand why we had a mountain under tension.It should not be. Until one of my colleagues said,&quot;It looks to me like a thermal blister, and the mid-ocean ridgemust be a cooling curve.&quot; We said, &quot;Let&#39;s go find out.&quot;We punched a bunch of heat probes. Everything made sense,except, at the axis, there was missing heat. It was missing heat.It was hot. It wasn&#39;t hot enough.So, we came up with multiple hypotheses:there&#39;s little green people down there taking it;there&#39;s all sorts of things going on.But the only logical [explanation] was that there were hot springs.So, there must be underwater hot springs.
时间： 8:16
zh-cn:我们进行了一次探险，以寻找丢失的热。因此，我们沿加拉帕哥斯裂谷区域中的这条山脉行进，终于发现了失踪的热。太令人吃惊了。这些巨大的烟囱。巨大的烟囱。我们乘潜艇到达这些烟囱上，想去取一个温度传感器，我们把它插在那儿了。瞧这，已经超过读数了。驾驶员报告了这一伟大的观察：“它是热的！”
en:We mounted an expedition to look for the missing heat.And so we went along this mountain range, in an area along Galapagos Rift,and did we find the missing heat.It was amazing. These giant chimneys, huge giant chimneys.We went up to them with our submersible.We wanted to get a temperature probe, we stuck it in there,looked at it — it pegged off scale.The pilot made this great observation: &quot;That&#39;s hot.&quot;
时间： 8:37
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:这时我们意识到我们的探热仪都是同样的材料制造的——它可能已经熔化了。但这就证明了出口的温度是650华氏度，这个热度足可熔化铅。这是胡安.德.富卡洋中脊中的一个实例。你看到的是一个从海底伸出来的化学管，真是不可思议。这幅照片中你看见的一切都具有商业价值——铜、铅、银、锌和金。所以复活节兔子已经把东西放到了海底，在这条山脉，有含量丰富的重金属矿床。沿着这条山脉，我们不断发现大量具有高商品等级的矿石，然而较之我们的发现，这不过是小巫见大巫而已。我们在一个本不该存在生命的世界里，发现了大量的生命。巨大的管虫，10英尺高。记得当时我不得不用伏特加——我自己的伏特加——去腌它，因为我们没有携带甲醛。在贫瘠的岩石表面，我们发现了令人难以置信的蛤床——巨大的蛤，接着，当我们把它们打开时，它们看上去却不像是蛤。因为当我们把它们切开的时候，它们竟没有蛤的生理结构。没有嘴，没有肠子，没有消化系统。它们的身体已整个的被另一个生物体——细菌接管，这就解决了一个问题：如何在黑暗中，通过我们现在叫做化学合成的过程代替光合作用。这当中没有哪种现象可以在我们的教科书里找到。我们不知道这个生命系统。我们没有预言它的存在。我们在寻找某种丢失的热的时候，无意中发现了它。
en:And then we realized our probe was made out of the same stuff —it could have melted. But it turns out the exiting temperaturewas 650 degrees F, hot enough to melt lead.This is what a real one looks like, on the Juan de Fuca Ridge.What you&#39;re looking at is an incredible pipe organof chemicals coming out of the ocean.Everything you see in this picture is commercial grade:copper, lead, silver, zinc and gold.So the Easter Bunny has put things in the ocean floor,and you have massive heavy metal depositsthat we&#39;re making in this mountain range.We&#39;re making huge discoveries of large commercial-grade orealong this mountain range, but it was dwarfed by what we discovered.We discovered a profusion of life,in a world that it should not exist [in]. Giant tube worms, 10 feet tall.I remember having to use vodka — my own vodka — to pickle itbecause we don&#39;t carry formaldehyde.We went and found these incredible clam bedssitting on the barren rock. Large clams,and when we opened them, they didn&#39;t look like a clam.And when we cut them open, they didn&#39;t have the anatomy of a clam.No mouth, no gut, no digestive system.Their bodies had been totally taken overby another organism, a bacterium, that had figured outhow to replicate photosynthesis in the dark,through a process we now call chemosynthesis.None of it in our textbooks. None of this in our textbooks.We did not know about this life system.We were not predicting it.We stumbled on it, looking for some missing heat.
时间： 9:59
zh-cn:所以我们想要加快这个过程。我们想要结束这个乘着潜艇上上下下的愚蠢的旅行。海洋的平均深度12,000英尺，早上去上班两个半小时。回家两个半小时。在路上就花了5小时。3个小时在海底的时间，平均旅行距离——1英里。
en:So, we wanted to accelerate this process.We wanted to get away from this silly trip, up and down on a submarine:average depth of the ocean, 12,000 feet;two and half hours to get to work in the morning;two and half hours to get to home. Five hour commute to work.Three hours of bottom time, average distance traveled — one mile.
时间：10:15
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:17
zh-cn:42,000英里山脉，工作保障很大，但无路可去。所以我开始设计一种新的远程监控技术，利用机器人系统来代替我自己，这样我就不必重复操作我的潜水器。我们开始在我们的探险中推广这一技术，用我们的新机器人技术继续进行惊人的发现。从大洋中脊的一个地方开向另一个地方，再次出发去寻找新的东西。科学家们没有值班的时候，却无意中发现了难以置信的生命形式。他们偶然发现了以前没有见过的新生物。但更重要的是，他们在那下面发现了自己也不能理解的“建筑群”。这很不合常理。它们不在岩浆房上面。它们不该在那儿的。我们叫它“失落城”。
en:On a 42,000 mile mountain range. Great job security, but not the way to go.So, I began designing a new technology of telepresence,using robotic systems to replicate myself,so I wouldn&#39;t have to cycle my vehicle system.We began to introduce that in our explorations,and we continued to make phenomenal discoverieswith our new robotic technologies. Again, looking for something else,moving from one part of the mid-ocean ridge to another.The scientists were off watch and they came across incredible life forms.They came across new creatures they had not seen before.But more importantly, they discoverededifices down there that they did not understand.That did not make sense. They were not above a magma chamber.They shouldn&#39;t be there. And we called it Lost City.
时间：10:59
zh-cn:而失落城是以这些不可思议的石灰石形态和颠倒的池塘为特征的。瞧这！你怎么理解这个？这是颠倒的水。我们到下面抽样化验，发现它的pH值和Drano（译者注：一种以氢氧化钠为主成分的洗涤液）一样。pH值11，但里面有化学合成细菌在生长，而且是在这样一种极端环境下生长。而热泉就处于一种酸性的环境。在另一端，自始至终都是一个碱性的环境，pH值11，里面有生命。所以，生命的创造力实在是超乎我们的想象。又一次偶然的发现。就在两年前圣托里尼岛的活动结束的时候，人们在沙滩上做日光浴，他们不知道自己就在火山喷口附近，我们发现了惊人的热泉系统和更多的生命系统。这里离人们日光浴的地方不过两英里，但他们并未注意到这个系统的存在。当然，我们又在水边停下来。
en:And Lost City was characterized by these incredible limestone formationsand upside down pools. Look at that.How do you do that? That&#39;s water upside down.We went in underneath and tapped it, and we found that it had the pH of Drano.The pH of 11, and yet it had chemosynthetic bacteria living in itand at this extreme environment.And the hydrothermal vents were in an acidic environment.All the way at the other end, in an alkaline environment,at a pH of 11, life existed.So life was much more creative than we had ever thought.Again, discovered by accident. Just two years agoworking off Santorini, where people are sunning themselves on the beach,unbeknownst to them in the caldera nearby,we found phenomenal hydrothermal vent systemsand more life systems.This was two miles from where people go to sunbathe,and they were oblivious to the existence of this system.Again, you know, we stop at the water&#39;s edge.
时间：11:56
zh-cn:最近在墨西哥湾潜水，这次发现的水池不是倒的，是正的。没错，你会感觉你好像飘在空中，直到一条鱼游过身边。你看着刺穿盐丘形成的卤水池。附近是甲烷。我从未见过甲烷火山。不是喷出熔岩，而是喷出很大很大的甲烷气泡。而它们正在创造这些火山，这儿流动的，不是熔岩，而是来自地球内部，由（甲烷）驱动的泥浆，我以前从未见过这种现象。
en:Recently, diving off — in the Gulf of Mexico, finding pools of water,this time not upside down, right side up.Bingo. You&#39;d think you&#39;re in air, until a fish swims by.You&#39;re looking at brine pools formed by salt diapirs.Near that was methane. I&#39;ve never seen volcanoes of methane.Instead of belching out lava, they were belching outbig, big bubbles of methane. And they were creating these volcanoes,and there were flows, not of lava,but of the mud coming out of the Earth but driven by —I&#39;ve never seen this before.
时间：12:32
zh-cn:继续。海洋下面不仅仅有自然的历史，还有人类的历史。例如泰坦尼克号沉船的发现。其实，深海才是地球上最大的博物馆。它所包含的历史，比陆地上所有的博物馆合起来还要多。然而，我们现在才刚刚认识到这一点。发现了这种保存状态。我们在16,000英尺的地方发现了俾斯麦号战舰。然后又找到了约克城号航母。人们总是问，“你发现的就是那艘船吗？”据说约克城号是船头朝上的。
en:Moving on, there&#39;s more than just natural history beneath the sea —human history. Our discoveries of the Titanic.The realization that the deep sea is the largest museum on Earth.It contains more history than all of the museums on land combined.And yet we&#39;re only now penetrating it.Finding the state of preservation.We found the Bismarck in 16,000 feet. We then found the Yorktown.People always ask, &quot;Did you find the right ship?&quot;It said Yorktown on the stern.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：13:02
zh-cn:最近又发现了古代历史。曾有过多少古代的航海者遭遇过不幸呢？一百万。我们一直在沿着古代贸易的航线寻找他们。他们不该在那儿的。这艘遇难船沉没于公元前100年。这艘沉船载着罗马神殿的组合构件。而这是一艘沉没于公元前750年荷马时代的遇难船。我们最近进入了黑海探险。因为那里面没有氧气，是地球上最大的硫化氢水库。所以遇难船只保存完好。船上所有的有机体都保存完好。我们开始发掘这些船只。我们期待开始运出这些尸体，它们的DNA处于完好状态。看看这个保存状态。木匠的广告标识都还在。看看那些史前古器物的状态。你还看得见黄蜡滴。滴上黄蜡时就把它密封起来了。这艘船沉没于1,500年前。
en:More recently, finding ancient history.How many ancient mariners have had a bad day? The number&#39;s a million.We&#39;ve been discovering these along ancient trade routes,where they&#39;re not supposed to be.This shipwreck sank 100 years before the birth of Christ.This one sank carrying a prefabricated, Home Depot Roman temple.And then here&#39;s one that sank at the time of Homer, at 750 B.C.More recently, into the Black Sea, where we&#39;re exploring.Because there&#39;s no oxygen there, it&#39;s the largest reservoirof hydrogen sulfide on Earth. Shipwrecks are perfectly preserved.All their organics are perfectly preserved. We begin to excavate them.We expect to start hauling out the bodies in perfect condition with their DNA.Look at the state of preservation —still the ad mark of a carpenter. Look at the state of those artifacts.You still see the beeswax dripping. When they dropped, they sealed it.This ship sank 1,500 years ago.
时间：13:58
zh-cn:幸运的是，我们说服了国会。我们继续在国会议员中游说。我们最近意外地从美国海军搞到一艘船。奥克阿诺斯探险家号。你差不多从名字就可以知道她的使命。它的使命就是要到地球上以前从未有人去过的地方。昨天我看着她，她在西雅图准备就绪。OK。
en:Fortunately, we&#39;ve been able to convince Congress.We begin to go on the Hill and lobby.And we stole recently a ship from the United States Navy.The Okeanos Explorer on its mission.Its mission is as good as you could get.Its mission is to go where no one has gone before on planet Earth.And I was looking at it yesterday, it&#39;s up in Seattle. OK.
时间：14:19
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：14:20
zh-cn:今年夏天她来到网上，并开始了她的探险之旅。但我们不知道，以我们的技术力量，我们将会有什么样的发现。不过可以肯定的是，她将驶往未知的美国。也就是躺在海洋下面的那部分美国。我们拥有这片蓝色的一切，但是，就像我说的，尤其是西部的领土，我们没有它们的地图。我们没有它们的地图。我们有金星的地图但没有西部领土的地图。我们打算进行这次探险，但不知道会有什么发现。我们不知道会发现什么。我们将发现一艘古代遇难船，一个巴西海岸附近的腓尼基人，或者，一个新的岩层，一个新的生命。所以，我们打算像一个急救中心一样来运作。
en:It comes online this summer,and it begins its journey of exploration.But we have no idea what we&#39;re going find when we go out there with our technology.But certainly, it&#39;s going to be going to the unknown America.This is that part of the United States that lies beneath the sea.We own all of that blue and yet,like I say, particularly the western territorial trust,we don&#39;t have maps of them. We don&#39;t have maps of them.We have maps of Venus, but not of the western territorial trust.The way we&#39;re going to run this — we have no idea what we&#39;re going to discover.We have no idea what we&#39;re going to discover.We&#39;re going to discover an ancient shipwreck, a Phoenician off Brazil,or a new rock formation, a new life.So, we&#39;re going to run it like an emergency hospital.
时间：14:59
zh-cn:我们打算把我们的指挥中心，经由高带宽的卫星信号，连接到罗德岛大学的一座大厦，这座大厦尚在修建，名叫“内空间中心”。我们打算像运行一艘核潜艇一样运行这个中心，蓝金队，不时转换，全天候运行。一旦有了发现，一秒钟后，这个发现立刻可以在指挥中心看见。而这时它也通过10千兆带宽的互联网被连接起来。这条新的互联网高速公路使原来的互联网看起来就像是信息高速公路上的一段土路。我们将进入我们还不了解的区域。这是我们这个行星上的一个巨大的空白。我们将在数小时内为它绘制地图，然后把地图散发给主要的高校。结果证明，美国所有海洋学人才的90%都在12所大学里。他们都是数一数二的顶尖人才。然后我们就可以建立一个指挥中心。这是设在华盛顿大学的远程中心。她在对导航仪谈话。她远在5,000英里之外但她担任指挥。
en:We&#39;re going to connect our command center,via a high-bandwidth satellite link to a building we&#39;re buildingat the University of Rhode Island, called the Interspace Center.And within that, we&#39;re going to run it just like you run a nuclear submarine,blue-gold team, switching them off and on, running 24 hours a day.A discovery is made, that discovery is instantly seenin the command center a second later.But then it&#39;s connected through Internet too —the new Internet highway that makes Internet onelook like a dirt road on the information highway —with 10 gigabits of bandwidth.We&#39;ll go into areas we have no knowledge of.It&#39;s a big blank sheet on our planet. We&#39;ll map it within hours,have the maps disseminated out to the major universities.It turns out that 90 percent of all the oceanographic intellectin this country are at 12 universities. They&#39;re all on I-2.We can then build a command center.This is a remote center at the University of Washington.She&#39;s talking to the pilot. She&#39;s 5,000 miles away, but she&#39;s assumed command.
时间：15:57
zh-cn:这个系统的卓越之处还在于，我们可以把它传播给孩子们。我们能够传播。他们可以跟随这个远征队。我已经开始了一个计划——你在哪儿，吉米？吉米.扬协助开始了一个叫做詹森计划的项目。我们最近同美国少男少女俱乐部开始了一项计划，目的是使我们能够利用探险以及探险直播的兴奋，提高并刺激他们的学习欲望，然后把他们已经准备从事的东西给他们。我不会让一个成人来操纵我的机器人。你没有玩游戏的丰富经验。但我将让一个没有驾照的孩子来接管我的潜水器系统。
en:But the beauty of this, too, is we can then disseminate it to children.We can disseminate.They can follow this expedition. I&#39;ve started a program —where are you Jim? Jim Young who helped me start a programcalled the Jason Project. More recently, we&#39;ve started a programwith the Boys and Girls Clubs of America,so that we can use exploration,and the excitement of live exploration, to motivate them and excite themand then give them what they&#39;re already ready for.I would not let an adult drive my robot.You don&#39;t have enough gaming experience.But I will let a kid with no license take over control of my vehicle system.
时间：16:31
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：16:33
zh-cn:因为我们想要创造。我们想要创造属于明天的教室。我们有严酷的竞争，我们也需要激励，这是所有人都需要的。你能否赢得一位工程师或一位科学家在8年级的时候就已经确定。这个游戏不是结束。它在8年级就结束了——它不是开始。我们不仅应该为我们的大学骄傲。我们还应该为我们的中学骄傲。而且，我来告诉你们，当我们有了世界上最棒的中学的时候，我们也将拥有从这个系统中脱颖而出的最棒的孩子。因为这就是我们想要的。这是我们想要的。这是个小女孩，她不是在观看足球比赛，也不是在观看篮球比赛。而是在观看数千英里之外的探险直播，而她正在逐渐理解她所看到的东西。在吃惊的同时，她也会学到很多。你可以把如此大量的信息输入这个头脑，它处于完全吸收的模式。
en:Because we want to create —we want to create the classroom of tomorrow.We have stiff competition and we need to motivate and it&#39;s all being done.You win or lose an engineer or a scientist by eighth grade.The game is not over — it&#39;s over by the eighth grade, it&#39;s not beginning.We need to be not only proud of our universities.We need to be proud of our middle schools.And when we have the best middle schools in the world,we&#39;ll have the best kids pumped out of that system, let me tell you.Because this is what we want. This is what we want.This is a young lady, not watching a football game,not watching a basketball game.Watching exploration live from thousands of miles away,and it&#39;s just dawning on her what she&#39;s seeing.And when you get a jaw drop, you can inform.You can put so much information into that mind, it&#39;s in full [receiving] mode.
时间：17:23
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:25
zh-cn:我希望，这是一位为真理而战的未来工程师或是未来的科学家。下面我要提最后一个问题，我的最后一个问题——为什么我们没看见进军海洋的行动？为什么有在火星建立居住地的计划，而且我们有研究开拓月球殖民地的计划，但我们没有一个研究如何开拓我们自己的行星的计划？而且技术是现成的。
en:This, I hope, will be a future engineeror a future scientist in the battle for truth.And my final question, my final question —why are we not looking at moving out onto the sea?Why do we have programs to build habitation on Mars,and we have programs to look at colonizing the moon,but we do not have a program looking at how we colonize our own planet?And the technology is at hand.
时间：17:54
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：17:56
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
