时间： 0:12
zh-cn:在座各位有多少听说过经前综合征？所有人都听说过，对吗？大家都知道女人在月经来潮前会变得有点狂躁，这种生理周期将她们拋上一架无法避免的荷尔蒙过山车，满载着不理性和易怒。这里有个普遍的假设，就是生殖激素的波动会导致极端情绪，大多数女性都会受此影响。而在这里要告诉你们，有科学证据表明，以上假设并不成立。我来这儿是要你们带来些关于经前综合症的好消息。
en:How many people here have heard of PMS?Everybody, right?Everyone knows that womengo a little crazyright before they get their period,that the menstrual cycle throws themonto an inevitable hormonal roller coasterof irrationality and irritability.There&#39;s a general assumptionthat fluctuations in reproductive hormonescause extreme emotionsand that the great majority of womenare affected by this.Well, I am here to tell youthat scientific evidence saysneither of those assumptions is true.I&#39;m here to give you the good news about PMS.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:但是首先，让我们来看一下经前综合征的观念在美国文化中是多么的根深蒂固。如果你去查阅报刊杂志中的文章，就会发现”每个女人都有经前综合征“这个假设有多么普遍。REDBOOK杂志有一篇文章，标题为《你：从经前综合征解放》，读者被告知80%到90%的女性都为经前综合征所扰。L.A. Muscle杂志警告它的读者，40%到50%的女性有经前综合征，并且它主导着女性的身心健康。几年前，甚至《华尔街日报》也刊登过一篇文章，介绍经前综合征的钙疗法，并且向其女性读者设问：“你每月都会变女巫吗？”
en:But first, let&#39;s take a lookat how firmly the idea of PMSis entrenched in American culture.If you examine newspaperor magazine articles,you&#39;ll see how widely assumed it isthat everyone gets PMS.In an article in the magazine Redbooktitled &quot;You: PMS Free,&quot;readers were informed that between 80 to 90 percent of women suffer from PMS.L.A. Muscle magazine warned its readersthat 40 to 50 percent of womensuffer from PMS,and that it plays a major rolein women&#39;s mental and physical health,and a couple of years ago,even the Wall Street Journalran an article on calciumas a treatment for PMS,asking its female readers,&quot;Do you turn into a witch every month?&quot;
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:通过所有的这些文章，你可能会认为应该已经有小山一般的大量研究证实了经前综合征普遍存在的本质。然而，经过50年的研究，人们并没有在对经前综合征的定义、起因、疗法甚至它本身是否存在等方面达成强有力的共识。按照心理学家最常用的定义，经前综合征包含了负面的行为、认知和身体上的一系列症状，从排卵期延续到月经期。但它的棘手之处在于有超过150种不同的症状被用来诊断经前综合征，这里列举了其中一些。
en:From all these articles, you would thinkthere must be a mountain of researchverifying the widespread nature of PMS.However, after five decades of research,there&#39;s no strong consensuson the definition, the cause,the treatment, or even the existence of PMS.As most commonly defined by psychologists,PMS involves negative behavioral,cognitive and physical symptomsfrom the time of ovulationto menstruation.But here&#39;s where it gets tricky.Over 150 different symptomshave been used to diagnose PMS,and here are just a few of those.
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:我想澄清一点，我不是说女性不会出现这些症状，而是说即使出现了其中一些症状，也不意味着就有精神障碍，而当心理学家提到精神障碍时，这是一个很模糊的定义，所以这个标签也就变得毫无意义了。按照这么一份冗长的、涵盖甚广的症状清单，经前综合征我可能有、你可能有、坐第三排那位男士可能有、我的狗也可能有。（笑声）有些研究员说，你必须同时满足五条症状，而另一些人说只要三条。有些研究员说，只有当那些症状严重到会干扰你的正常生活时才有意义，但另一些人又说，即使症状轻微也一样。多年来，因为没有一个对经前综合征的标准定义，所以当心理学家尝试去报告患病率时，他们的估算从5%到97%的女性不等，也就是说在同时，要么几乎没人有经前综合征，要么几乎人人都有。
en:Now, I want to be clear here.I&#39;m not saying women don&#39;t getsome of these symptoms.What I&#39;m saying is thatgetting some of these symptomsdoesn&#39;t amount to a mental disorder,and when psychologistscome up with a disorderthat&#39;s so vaguely defined,the label eventually becomes meaningless.With a list of symptomsthis long and wide,I could have PMS, you could have PMS,the guy in the third row herecould have PMS,my dog could have PMS.(Laughter)Some researchers saidyou had to have five symptoms.Some said three.Other researchers said that symptomswere only meaningfulif they were highly disturbing to you,but others said minor symptomswere just as important.For many years, becausethere was no standardizationin the definition of PMS,when psychologists triedto report prevalence rates,their estimates rangedfrom five percent of womento 97 percent of women,so at the same time almost no oneand almost everyone had PMS.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:总的来说，这些经前综合征的研究方法有相当大的弊端。首先，很多研究要求女性回溯报告她们的症状，回顾过去，仰赖记忆，我们已知这种方法会夸大事实；与之相较的另一种方法叫做前瞻性报告，被测者要每天记录发生的症状，至少持续两个月的时间。还有很多研究仅关注中产阶级白人女性，而把研究成果应用到所有的女性时，就会产生问题。我们知道关于经前综合征的观点存在有很强的文化要素，因为它在西方国家之外几乎闻所未闻。第三，很多研究并没有使用对照组。如果我们想要了解那些患经前综合征的女性有何特征，我们需要能够将她们与没有经前综合征的女性作对比。最后一点，很多不同类型的用于诊断经前综合征的调查问卷聚焦于不同的症状、症状持续的时间和严重性。无论在任何条件下，可靠的研究都要求科学家必须就构成这种条件的特征达成一致，这样才能确保讨论的是同一个概念，但对于经前综合征来说，情况并非如此。
en:Overall, the weaknesses in the methodsof research on PMS have been considerable.First, many studies asked womento report their symptoms retrospectively,looking to the past and relying on memory,which is known to inflate reporting of PMScompared to what&#39;s calledprospective reporting,which involves keepinga daily log of symptomsfor at least two months in a row.Many studies also exclusively focusedon white, middle-class women,which makes it problematicto apply study findings to all women.We know there&#39;s a strongcultural component to the belief in PMSbecause it&#39;s nearly unheard ofoutside of Western nations.Third, many studies failedto use control groups.If we want to understandthe specific characteristicsof women who have PMS,we need to be able to compare themto women who don&#39;t have PMS.And finally, many different typesof questionnaires were usedto diagnose PMS, focusingon different symptoms,symptom duration and severity.To do reliable research on any condition,scientists must agreeon the specific characteristicsthat make up that conditionso they&#39;re all talkingabout the same thing,and with PMS, this has not been the case.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:然而，在1994年，《精神障碍诊断与统计手册》，又被称作DSM——它也是一本供心理健康专业人员使用的手册——将经前综合征（PMS）重新定义为PMDD：即经前焦虑障碍。而其中的焦虑指的是一种烦躁或不安的情绪。根据这些新的DSM指南，（患有经前焦虑障碍的人）上一年大多数月经周期中在11种可能的症状中至少有5种应当出现在月经开始前的一个星期；这些症状在月经开始后应当好转；然后在月经结束后一个星期内消失。这些症状必须包含下列四种之一：明显的情绪波动、易怒、焦虑、或抑郁。其它症状可能包含于第一张或者第二张幻灯片中的所列项，包括感到情绪失控，以及睡眠或胃口的改变。DSM现在还要求这些症状应该与临床上显著的痛苦相联系——应当对工作、学习或者人际关系形成干扰——这些症状及其严重程度应当反映在至少连续两个周期的日志记录中。最后，DSM要求情绪障碍应当不仅仅是简单的某种已经存在的障碍的恶化。所以从科学上讲，这是一个进步。现在我们有了数量有限的症状，并且要求对正常生活产生显著影响，对症状的描述和发生时间也做了详细规定。运用这个准则，并且参照最近的研究，我们看到平均来说，3%到8%的女性患有经前焦虑障碍。不是所有的女性，也不是大部分的女性，不是大多数女性，甚至也不是很多女性：只有3%到8%。对其他人来说，像导致压力的事件，令人愉悦的场合，甚至是一周当中任何一天这样的变量，都是比生理期更强大的情绪预测因子，而这也是科学界从1990年代就已获得的信息。2002年，我和同事们发表了一篇文章描述对经前综合征和经前焦虑障碍的研究，还有其它几篇类似的文章出现在心理学期刊上。问题是，为什么这些信息没有惠及大众？为什么这些迷思仍然持续？
en:However, in 1994,the Diagnostic and Statistical Manualof Mental Disorders,known as the DSM, thankfully —it&#39;s also the manualfor mental health professionals —they redefined PMS as PMDD,Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder.And dysphoria refers toa feeling of agitation or unease.And according to these new DSM guidelines,in most menstrual cycles in the last year,at least five of 11 possible symptomsmust appear in the weekbefore menstruation starts;the symptoms must improveonce menstruation has begun;and the symptoms must be absentthe week after menstruation has ended.One of these symptoms must comefrom this list of four:marked mood swings, irritability,anxiety, or depression.The other symptoms could comefrom the first slideor from those on the second slide,including symptoms likefeeling out of controland changes in sleep or appetite.The DSM also required nowthat the symptomsshould be associated withclinically significant distress —there should be some kindof disturbance in workor school or social relationships —and that symptoms and symptom severityshould now be documentedby keeping a daily logfor at least two cycles in a row.And finally, the DSM required thatthe emotional disturbanceshould be more than simply an exacerbationof an already existing disorder.So scientifically speaking,this is an improvement.We now have a limited number of symptoms,and a high impact on functioningthat&#39;s required,and the reporting and timing of symptomshave both become very specific.Well, using this criteriaand looking at most recent studies,we see that on average,three to eight percent of womensuffer from PMDD.Not all women, not most women,not the majority of women,not even a lot of women:three to eight percent.For everyone else, variableslike stressful events or happy occasionsor even day of the weekare more powerful predictors of moodthan time of the month,and this is the informationthe scientific community has hadsince the 1990s.In 2002, my colleagues and Ipublished an articledescribing the PMS and PMDD research,and several similar articles have appearedin psychology journals.The questions is, why hasn&#39;t thisinformation trickled down to the public?Why do these myths persist?
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:当然，女性从书本、电视、电影和网络上接受到的大量的宣称每个人都会得经前综合征的信息，对于使她们确信那就是真相起了很大的作用。研究表明，一个女性越是相信每个人都会有经前综合征，她就越会错误地认为自己也有这种病。让我来告诉你我所说的“错误地”是什么意思。你可能会问她，“你有经前综合征吗？”她会回答：“是的。”但是，当你检查她写的连续两个月的心理症状日志时，却无法找到这些症状跟生理期之间的关联。
en:Well, certainly the onslaughtof messages that women receivefrom books, TV, movies, the Internet,that everyone gets PMSgo a long way in convincing themit must be true.Research tells us that the morea woman believes that everyone gets PMS,the more likely she isto erroneously report that she has it.Let me tell you what I meanby &quot;erroneously.&quot;You might ask her, &quot;Do you have PMS?&quot;and she says yes,but then, when you have her keep a daily logof psychological symptoms for two months,no correlation is foundbetween her symptomsand time of the month.
时间： 8:04
zh-cn:另一个经前综合征迷思仍然持续的原因，是跟女性角色的狭窄边界有关。像琼·克莱斯勒这样的女权主义心理学家曾经提出，贴上了经前综合征的标签后可以让女性有借口表现出一些情绪，而这些情绪往往被认为是不够淑女的。有一个对于“好女人”的近乎放之四海皆准的定义，她要快乐、充满爱心、关心他人、并且对这种角色设定感到非常满意。这样一来，经前综合征就成为了一个允许她们正当地发怒、抱怨、烦躁，却不会失去“好女人”的称号。我们知道一个女性所处环境的变量要比她的荷尔蒙更容易导致她愤怒，但是当她把这种愤怒情绪归咎于荷尔蒙时，就无须为此负责，还能避免批评。“哦，那不是真正的她，她控制不了。”尽管这可以当做一种实用工具，实际上却否定了女性的情绪。当人们对一个女性的愤怒作出回应时，他会想，“噢，这只是生理期的原因。”她通常就不会被认真对待，也不太可能会发生有益的改变。
en:Another reason forthe persistence of the PMS mythhas to do with the narrow boundariesof the feminine role.Feminist psychologists like Joan Chrislerhave suggested thattaking on the label of PMSallows women to express emotions thatwould otherwise be considered unladylike.The near universal definitionof a good womanis one who is happy, loving,caring for others,and taking great satisfactionfrom that role.Well, PMS has become a permission slipto be angry, complain, be irritated,without losing the title of good woman.We know that the variablesin a woman&#39;s environmentare much more likely to cause herto be angry than her hormones,but when she attributes anger to hormones,she&#39;s absolvedof responsibility or criticism.&quot;Oh, that&#39;s not who she is.It&#39;s out of her control.&quot;And while this can be a useful tool,it serves to invalidate women&#39;s emotions.When people respond to a woman&#39;s angerwith the thought, &quot;Oh,it&#39;s just that time of the month,&quot;her ability to be taken seriouslyor effect change is severely limited.
时间： 9:16
zh-cn:那么还有谁能从经前综合征的迷思中获益呢？我可以告诉你们，经前综合征的治疗已经发展成一个有利可图、蓬勃发展的行业。目前，亚马逊网站上有超过1900种关于治疗经前综合征的书籍在售。通过谷歌，可以很快搜索出一箩筐的信息，全是关于诊所、讲习所和研讨会的。那些著名的医学信息资源网站如“网络医生”、“梅约诊所”都将经前综合征列为一种已知的精神障碍。它不是一种已知的精神障碍，却被列为一种。他们还列出了内科医生治疗经前综合征的处方药，比如抗抑郁剂或者激素。有趣的是，这两家网站都表示药物治疗经前综合征的成功率因人而异。而这完全不合常理。如果你得了一种由确切原因导致的明显的精神疾病，假设那就是“经前综合征”，那么针对它的治疗方法应该为大量的女性带来病情改善。但是对于经前综合征的这些治疗方法却并不是这么回事，而且，美国食品和药品管理局的法规规定，如果要认定一种药物有效，那么它的目标人群中的很大一部分，应当有临床上的显著改善。而我们从经前综合征的所谓“治疗”上并未看到上述效果。然而，坚持宣扬经前综合征是一种可治疗的普遍的精神疾病这一谬见，所获得的经济收益是巨大的。当女性服用抗抑郁剂或激素等处方药时，医疗协议要求她们每三个月复诊，那是一个很大的就医量。医药企业能获取数不清的利润，只要女人们相信她们应该在整个怀孕期间服用处方药。非处方药像痛经药Midol甚至声称能够治疗像紧张和易怒这样的经前综合征症状，尽管它们只含有利尿剂、止痛剂和咖啡因。我没有立场去争论咖啡因的神奇力量，但我并不认为它有缓解紧张的作用。自2002年以来，Midol为青少年市场开发了适用的产品，他们早早的就瞄准了年轻女孩，说服她们相信每个人都会得经前综合征，那会使你变成一个怪物，但是等一等，你还是有救的：服用Midol，就会变回正常人。2013年， Midol获得了4800万美元的销售收入。
en:So who else benefits from the myth of PMS?Well, I can tell you that treating PMShas become a profitable, thriving industry.Amazon.com currently offersover 1,900 books on PMS treatment.A quick Google searchwill bring up a cornucopiaof clinics, workshops and seminars.Reputable Internet sourcesof medical informationlike WebMD or the Mayo Cliniclist PMS as a known disorder.It&#39;s not a known disorder,but they list it.And they also list the medications thatphysicians have prescribed to treat it,like anti-depressants or hormones.Interestingly, though, both websitessay that the success of medicationin treating PMS symptomsvary from woman to woman.Well, that doesn&#39;t make sense.If you&#39;ve got a distinct disorderwith a distinct cause,which PMS is supposed to be,then the treatment should bringimprovement for a great number of women.This has not been the casewith these treatments,and FDA regulations say thatfor a drug to be deemed effective,a large portion of the target populationshould see clinicallysignificant improvement.So we have not had that at allwith these so-called treatments.However, the financial gainof perpetuating the myththat PMS is a common mental disorderand is treatable is quite substantial.When women are prescribeddrugs like anti-depressants or hormones,medical protocol requires that they havephysician follow-up every three months.That&#39;s a lot of doctor visits.Pharmaceutical companiesreap untold profitswhen women are convincedthey should take a prescribed medicationfor all of their child-bearing lives.Over-the-counter drugs like Midoleven claim to treat PMS symptomslike tension and irritability,even though they only containa diuretic, a pain relieverand caffeine.Now, far be it from me to arguewith the magical powers of caffeine,but I don&#39;t think reducing tensionis one of them.Since 2002, Midol has marketeda Teen Midol to adolescents.They are aiming at young girls early,to convince them that everyone gets PMSand that it will make you a monster,but wait, there&#39;s somethingyou can do about it:Take Midol and you will bea human being again.In 2013, Midol took in 48 million dollarsin sales revenue.
时间：11:50
zh-cn:维持关于经前综合征的迷思对某些机构来说是有利可图的，但是对女性自己则会产生严重的不良后果。首先，它会导致女性生殖健康的医疗化。医疗领域有一个很长的历史，将女性的生殖过程概念化为一个需要治疗的疾病，这样就会产生很多的花费，包括过度的剖腹产手术、子宫切除和指定的激素治疗，而这对女性的健康来说有百害而无一利。第二，经前综合征的迷思对女性不理性和过度情绪化的刻板印象的形成有所助益。当生理周期被描述成将女性变成愤怒的野兽的荷尔蒙过山车时，就会很容易让人去怀疑所有女性的能力。女性在职场上取得了巨大的进步，但是在政府或者企业的高层职位中女性的数量仍然微不足道，当我们思考谁能成为一个好的CEO或者议员，那些拥有理性、稳重、能力等素质的人会出现在我们脑海中，而在我们的文化中，男性听起来更符合这些条件，而经前综合征的迷思正是导致这种认知的原因之一。
en:So while perpetuating the myth of PMShas been lucrative for some,it comes with some seriousadverse consequences for women.First, it contributesto the medicalizationof women&#39;s reproductive health.The medical field has a long historyof conceptualizingwomen&#39;s reproductive processesas illnesses that require treatment,and this has come at many costs,including excessive Cesarean deliveries,hysterectomies and prescribedhormone treatmentsthat have harmed rather than enhancedwomen&#39;s health.Second, the PMS myth also contributesto the stereotype of womenas irrational and overemotional.When the menstrual cycle is describedas a hormonal roller coasterthat turns women into angry beasts,it becomes easy to question the competence of all women.Women have made tremendous stridesin the workforce,but still there&#39;s a minuscule numberof women at the highest echelonsof fields like government or business,and when we think aboutwho makes for a good CEO or senator,someone who has qualities like rationality, steadiness, competencecome to mind,and in our culture, that sounds morelike a man than a woman,and the PMS myth contributes to that.
时间：13:12
zh-cn:心理学家认为男性和女性情绪上的相同之处多过差异。有一项研究对男性和女性进行了4到6个月的跟踪，发现他们经历的情绪波动的次数和严重性并没有什么不同。最后，经前综合征迷思妨碍到女性处理那些造成她们心烦意乱的症结问题。人际关系和工作环境的质量等个人问题，或者种族主义、性别歧视、贫困折磨等社会问题，都跟每天的情绪有密切关联。用经前综合征来逃避情绪问题，限制了女性去了解她们负面情绪的来源，同时也夺走了她们采取行动去做出改变的机会。
en:Psychologists know thatthe moods of men and womenare more similar than different.One study followed men and womenfor four to six monthsand found that the numberof mood swings they experiencedand the severity of those mood swingswere no different.And finally, the PMS mythkeeps women from dealingwith the actual issuescausing them emotional upset.Individual issues likequality of relationship or work conditionsor societal issues like racism or sexismor the daily grind of povertyare all strongly related to daily mood.Sweeping emotions under the rug of PMSkeeps women from understandingthe source of their negative emotions,but it also takes away the opportunityto take any action to change them.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:所以关于经前综合征的好消息是虽然一些女性会因为生理周期而出现一些症状，但大多数的女性并不因此而患精神疾病。她们照样工作、上学、照顾家庭，一切如常。我们知道男性与女性的情绪和心情极为相近，那么就让我们从陈腐的视女性为巫婆的经前综合征迷思中走出来，而去接受大多数女性每天都过着情绪高涨、专业有序，运转正常的生活这一事实。
en:So the good news about PMSis that while some women get some symptomsbecause of the menstrual cycle,the great majority don&#39;tget a mental disorder.They go to work or school,take care of their families,and function at a normal level.We know the emotions and moodsof men and womenare more similar than different,so let&#39;s walk away fromthe tired old PMS myth of women as witchesand embrace the reality of high emotionaland professional functioningthe great majority of womenlive every day.
时间：14:38
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:40
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
