时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我首先希望你们能够消除对爬行动物的恐惧感，因为只有这样我才能把讯息传达给你们。另外，如果你们觉得我是一个疯狂的嬉皮自然保护主义者，那只不过你们自己的幻想罢了。(观众笑)
en:I want you to put off your preconceptions,your preconceived fears and thoughts about reptiles.Because that is the only way I&#39;m going to get my story across to you.And by the way, if I come across as a sort ofrabid, hippie conservationist,it&#39;s purely a figment of your imagination.(Laughter)
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:事实上，我们是地球上第一个威胁到自己生存的物种。我们看到过很多关于地球生态遭到破坏的图片，多到足以使我们麻木。我们就像贪婪的孩子，耗尽所有一切，不是吗？今天我要和大家讲一下水。这不仅仅是因为我们喜欢喝水，还有那些奇妙的衍生品，比如啤酒，红酒等等；当然我们也喜欢看着它从空中降落，在河流中流淌，也会有一些其他原因。
en:Okay. We are actually the first species on Earthto be so prolific to actually threaten our own survival.And I know we&#39;ve all seen images enough to make us numb,of the tragedies that we&#39;re perpetrating on the planet.We&#39;re kind of like greedy kids, using it all up, aren&#39;t we?And today is a time for me to talk to you about water.It&#39;s not only because we like to drink lots of it,and its marvelous derivatives, beer, wine, etc.And, of course, watch it fall from the skyand flow in our wonderful rivers,but for several other reasons as well.
时间： 1:14
zh-cn:当我在纽约，还是个孩子的时候，我对蛇十分着迷，就好像很多孩子着迷于陀螺、弹珠、汽车、火车和板球。我的母亲，一位很有勇气的女士，对此也算负有责任吧。是她带我去纽约自然历史博物馆，给我买关于蛇的书，使我踏上了这条职业道路，后来甚至把我带到印度，那是在60年前，这就是我的母亲，多丽·丝诺登，和继父，拉玛·查托帕迪亚雅。
en:When I was a kid, growing up in New York,I was smitten by snakes, the same way most kids aresmitten by tops, marbles, cars, trains, cricket balls.And my mother, brave lady,was partly to blame,taking me to the New York Natural History Museum,buying me books on snakes,and then starting this infamous career of mine,which has culminated inof course, arriving in India 60 years ago,brought by my mother, Doris Norden,and my stepfather, Rama Chattopadhyaya.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:这是一趟充满刺激的旅程。两种标志性的爬行动物从一开始就深深地吸引了我。一个是非比寻常的长吻鄂。这种生长在北部河流中的鳄鱼可以长到近20英尺长；另一个是气度非凡的眼镜王蛇。我今天的演讲实际上是想要用这些魅力十足而威严的生物在你们的脑海中留下一个永久的印记。因为这就是我希望你们能从今天的演讲中所得到的，一次和自然的亲密接触。
en:It&#39;s been a roller coaster ride.Two animals, two iconic reptilesreally captivated me very early on.One of them was the remarkable gharial.This crocodile, which grows to almost 20 feet longin the northern rivers,and this charismatic snake, the king cobra.What my purpose of the talk today really is,is to sort of indelibly scar your mindswith these charismatic and majestic creatures.Because this is what you will take away from here,a reconnection with nature, I hope.
时间： 2:22
zh-cn:眼镜王蛇的非凡有它的道理。你们现在看到的是最近在附近森林里拍到的一些影像。一条雌性眼镜王蛇正在筑巢，没有四肢的动物，居然可以把这么多树叶聚集起来，并在里面产蛋。这个巢能够承受5到10米的降雨量，而蛋将在未来90天内孵化，最终孵出小眼镜王蛇。这条母蛇保护她的蛋，3个月后，小蛇就孵出来了。它们当中的大部分都会死掉，这是当然的，10到12英寸长的小蛇死亡率是很高的。
en:The king cobra is quite remarkable for several reasons.What you&#39;re seeing here is very recently shot imagesin a forest nearby here,of a female king cobra making her nest.Here is a limbless animal, capable of gathering a huge mound of leaves,and then laying her eggs inside,to withstand 5 to 10 [meters of rainfall],in order that the eggs can incubate over the next 90 days,and hatch into little baby king cobras.So, she protects her eggs,and after three months,the babies finally do hatch out.A majority of them will die, of course. There is very high mortalityin little baby reptiles who are just 10 to 12 inches long.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:我第一次接触眼镜王蛇是在72年，在一个叫阿古比的神奇地方，位于卡纳塔克邦境内。这是一片神奇的雨林。这次邂逅就好像马赛传说中男孩杀死狮子成为勇士的故事，它彻底改变了我的生活，把我带入了关于自然保护的争论中，我于是开始了这个研究项目，并在阿古比建立了教育站，我很欢迎你们来参观。
en:My first experience with king cobras was in &#39;72at a magical place called Agumbe,in Karnataka, this state.And it is a marvelous rain forest.This first encounterwas kind of like theMaasai boy who kills the lion to become a warrior.It really changed my life totally.And it brought me straight into the conservation fray.I ended up starting this researchand education station in Agumbe,which you are all of course invited to visit.
时间： 3:33
zh-cn:基本上这算是一个我们用来收集和研究这片不可思议的森林的生物多样性的基地。我们努力保持它的原貌，确保水源得到保护，当然，我们在这里过得很愉快。你甚至能听到从我们住的小木屋里传出击鼓声。和民众建立联系对我们来说很重要，尤其是和孩子们。他们被蛇深深吸引，并不像成年人那样，对蛇不是害怕就是厌恶。他们对蛇很感兴趣，教育他们很有效果。这张图能给你一个眼镜王蛇大小的大致概念。
en:This is basically a base whereinwe are trying to gather and learnvirtually everything about the biodiversityof this incredibly complex forest system,and try to hang on to what&#39;s there,make sure the water sources are protected and kept clean,and of course, having a good time too.You can almost hear the drumsthrobbing back in that little cottage where we stay when we&#39;re there.It was very important for us to get through to the people.And through the children is usually the way to go.They are fascinated with snakes. They haven&#39;t gotthat steely thing that you end upeither fearing or hating or despising or loathing them in some way.They are interested.And it really works to start with them.This gives you an idea of the size of some of these snakes.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:这是一条平常大小的眼镜王蛇，12英尺长，它爬到了某户人家的浴室里，在那里呆了两三天。这一地区的印度人崇拜眼镜王蛇。他们不杀蛇，而是找到我们去抓住它。我们在过去3年内已经抓了100多条眼镜王蛇，并把它们在附近森林里放生。
en:This is an average size king cobra, about 12 feet long.And it actually crawled into somebody&#39;s bathroom,and was hanging around there for two or three days.The people of this part of Indiaworship the king cobra.And they didn&#39;t kill it. They called us to catch it.Now we&#39;ve caught more than 100 king cobrasover the last three years,and relocated them in nearby forests.
时间： 4:39
zh-cn:但是为了发掘它们的秘密，我们必须在它们身上植入微型无线发射器，这样我们就能够跟踪它们，并发现它们的秘密，比如小蛇孵化之后会去哪里，还有你们即将看到的不可思议的画面。这是在阿古比，就在几天前。我很高兴能够靠近这条巨大的眼镜王蛇，它抓到了一条剧毒的蝮蛇,身手如此敏捷，自己毫发未伤。眼镜王蛇只吃蛇，这算是它的点心，就好像是我们的甜甜圈。（观众笑）
en:But in order to find out the real secrets of these creatures[it was necessary] for us to actually inserta small radio transmitter inside [each] snake.Now we are able to follow them and find out their secrets,where the babies go after they hatch,and remarkable things like this you&#39;re about to see.This was just a few days ago in Agumbe.I had the pleasure of being close to this large king cobrawho had caught a venomous pit viper.And it does it in such a way that it doesn&#39;t get bitten itself.And king cobras feed only on snakes.This [little snake] was kind of a tid-bit for it,what we&#39;d call a &quot;vadai&quot; or a donut or something like that.(Laughter)
时间： 5:22
zh-cn:它们的猎物通常比这个大一些。接下来看到的难以解释场景发生在去年的繁殖期，一条雄性眼镜王蛇抓住了一条母蛇，但它并没有和母蛇交配，而是吞了它。我们仍然在试图从进化的角度解释这种现象。
en:Usually they eat something a bit larger.In this case a rather strange and inexplicableactivity happened over the last breeding season,wherein a large male king cobra actually grabbed a female king cobra,didn&#39;t mate with it, actually killed it and swallowed it.We&#39;re still trying to explain and come to terms withwhat is the evolutionary advantage of this.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:它们还有很多其他惊人的行为。这一次，借助在一条蛇身上植入的无线放射器，我们看到这条12英尺长的公蛇遇到了另一条公蛇，它们进行了一场难以置信的仪式舞蹈，就像哺乳动物发情，只是更加温柔，没有撕咬。这是一场摔跤比赛，但是与众不同。
en:But they do also a lot of other remarkable things.This is again, something [we were able to see] by virtue of the factthat we had a radio transmitter in one of the snakes.This male snake, 12 feet long, met another male king cobra.And they did this incredible ritual combat dance.It&#39;s very much like the rutting of mammals, including humans,you know, sorting out our differences, but gentler, no biting allowed.It&#39;s just a wresting match,but a remarkable activity.
时间： 6:10
zh-cn:那么，我们用这些信息做什么呢？我们所做的一切是为了什么？眼镜王蛇实际上是这些森林中最重要的物种。我们的工作是说服权威部门来保护这些森林。我们所采取的一种方式，就是通过学习和研究森林中这些标志性的生物，来保护森林和动物，当然还有水资源。
en:Now, what are we doing with all this information?What&#39;s the point of all this?Well, the king cobra is literallya keystone species in these rainforests.And our job is to convince the authoritiesthat these forests have to be protected.And this is one of the ways we do it,by learning as much as we canabout something so remarkable and so iconic in the rainforests there,in order to help protect trees, animalsand of course the water sources.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:你们可能听说过“拯救老虎计划”，该计划始于70年代，在一个保护自然理论非常盛行的时代。我们由一位专制的女政客领导，她对自然有着难以置信的热情。这就是“拯救老虎计划”浮出水面的时候。和这个计划一样，针对眼镜王蛇，我们致力于保护它们的栖息地和里面所有的一切。老虎是个标志，现在眼镜王蛇成了新标志。
en:You&#39;ve all heard, perhaps, of Project Tigerwhich started back in the early &#39;70s,which was, in fact, a very dynamic time for conservation.We were piloted, I could say,by a highly autocratic stateswoman,but who also had an incredible passion for environment.And this is the time when Project Tiger emerged.And, just like Project Tiger,our activities with the king cobrais to look at a species of animalso that we protect its habitat and everything within it.So, the tiger is the icon.And now the king cobra is a new one.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:印度南部的主要河流都起源于印度西海岸的西高止山脉。每小时有上百万加仑的水从山上流下，可以供至少3亿人饮用，给很多婴儿洗澡，给很多家养和野生的动物们喝，用来生产上千吨的大米。
en:All the major rivers in south Indiaare sourced in the Western Ghats,the chain of hills running along the west coast of India.It pours out millions of gallons every hour,and supplies drinking water to at least 300 million people,and washes many, many babies,and of course feeds many, many animals,both domestic and wild,produces thousands of tons of rice.
时间： 7:40
zh-cn:而我们做了什么？我们怎么回报的？基本上，我们建造大坝，污染河流，倾倒各种杀虫剂和除草剂。你们其实是在冒着生命危险喝水。更重要的是，不仅仅是大型工业和被误导了的河流工程师在污染河流，我们也是其中一分子。人们似乎觉得处理垃圾最好的方法就是往水里丢。现在我们再来看看北部，
en:And what do we do? How do we respond to this?Well, basically, we dam it, we pollute it,we pour in pesticides, weedicides, fungicides.You drink it in peril of your life.And the thing is, it&#39;s not just big industry.It&#39;s not misguided river engineerswho are doing all this; it&#39;s us.It seems that our citizens find the best way to dispose of garbageare in water sources.Okay. Now we&#39;re going north, very far north.
时间： 8:06
zh-cn:北部的昌巴尔河，我们在那里建有基地。也是长吻鄂的家乡。长吻鄂在地球上生存已有1亿多年了。恐龙灭绝了，它们却存活了下来。它们的身上有很多惊人的地方。尽管它们可以长到20英尺长，但由于它们只吃鱼，因而对人类没有威胁。它们有巨大的牙齿，人们似乎很难信服，长有硕大牙齿的动物却是没有威胁的。
en:North central India, the Chambal Riveris where we have our base.This is the home of the gharial, this incredible crocodile.It is an animal which has been on the Earthfor just about 100 million years.It survived even during the time that the dinosaurs died off.It has remarkable features.Even though it grows to 20 feet long,since it eats only fish it&#39;s not dangerous to human beings.It does have big teeth, however,and it&#39;s kind of hard to convince peopleif an animal has big teeth, that it&#39;s a harmless creature.
时间： 8:38
zh-cn:在70年代的时候，我们做过调查，发现长吻鄂已经十分稀有。如果你查看地图。它们的原本栖息地从巴基斯坦境内的印度河一直延伸到缅甸的伊洛瓦底江。而现在只剩下在尼泊尔和印度的几个栖息点。事实上，目前世界上仅有200多条成年长吻鄂。在70年代，当自然保护运动刚刚兴起的时候，我们得到政府的支持，展开了一个项目，从野外仅有的几个栖息地收集鳄鱼蛋，成功孵化了5000条小长吻鄂，并把它们放归自然。没过多久我们就能看到这样的场景了。看到成群的长吻鄂在河边晒日光浴，感觉真是太棒了。
en:But we, actually, back in the early &#39;70s,did surveys,and found that gharial were extremely rare.In fact, if you see the map,the range of their original habitatwas all the way from the Indus in Pakistanto the Irrawaddy in Burma.And now it&#39;s just limited to a couple of spotsin Nepal and India.So, in fact at this pointthere are only 200 breeding gharial left in the wild.So, starting in the mid-&#39;70swhen conservation was at the fore,we were actually able to start projects which werebasically government supportedto collect eggs from the wild from the few remaining nestsand release 5,000 baby gharialback to the wild.And pretty soon we were seeing sights like this.I mean, just incredible to see bunches of gharialbasking on the river again.
时间： 9:33
zh-cn:但自满使我们忽视了很多问题。河岸边的众多活动，如采砂作业、大量的耕作给河流带来很大压力，使得野生动物无法正常繁殖。我们看到还有更多的问题在威胁长吻鄂，光有最初的努力是不够的。成百条小鳄鱼从河边的巢中孵化出来，这场景令人赞叹。这张照片是去年拍的。但是，下游总是会有水坝或者堰堤，当季风来临，它们就被冲向灭亡。
en:But complacency does have a tendency to breed contempt.And, sure enough, with all the other pressures on the river,like sand mining, for example,very, very heavy cultivation all the way down to the river&#39;s edge,not allowing the animals to breed anymore,we&#39;re looking ateven more problems building up for the gharial,despite the early good intentions.Their nests hatching along the riversideproducing hundreds of hatchlings. It&#39;s just an amazing sight.This was actually just taken last year.But then the monsoon arrives,and unfortunately downriver there is always a dam orthere is always a barrage,and, shoop, they get washed down to their doom.
时间：10:18
zh-cn:幸好大家还是十分热忱。我和那些在鳄鱼自然保护联盟专家小组、马德拉斯鳄鱼银行——一个非政府组织、世界野生动物基金会、印度野生动物研究所、国家林业部和环境部的朋友们，一起合作。但仅仅这样是不够的。举个例子，在2007和2008年冬天，昌巴尔河里的长吻鄂惊人地大批死亡，突然间河面上出现了很多死鳄鱼。为什么？发生什么问题了？
en:Luckily there is still a lot of interest.My pals in the Crocodile Specialist Group of the IUCN,the [Madras Crocodile Bank], an NGO,the World Wildlife Fund,the Wildlife Institute of India, State Forest Departments,and the Ministry of Environment, we all work together on stuff.But it&#39;s possibly, and definitely not enough.For example, in the winter of 2007 and 2008,there was this incredible die-off of gharial, in the Chambal River.Suddenly dozens of gharial appearing on the river, dead.Why? How could it happen?
时间：10:50
zh-cn:这条河相对干净，水是清的。人们直接从河里舀水喝，大多数印度北部的河不可能是这样的。为了找出原因，我们从世界各地找来兽医，和印度本地的兽医一起寻找真相。我也在河边验尸。我们检查它们的内脏，试图找出原因。最后我们发现祸根是痛风病，由于肾功能衰竭，体内尿酸结晶，尤其是在关节处，最终导致长吻鄂不能游泳。死得很痛苦。
en:This is a relatively clean river.The Chambal, if you look at it, has clear water.People scoop water out of the Chambal and drink it,something you wouldn&#39;t do in most north Indian rivers.So, in order to try to find out the answer to this,we got veterinarians from all over the worldworking with Indian vets to try to figure out what was happening.I was there for a lot of the necropsies on the riverside.And we actually looked throughall their organs and tried to figure out what was going on.And it came down to something called gout,which, as a result of kidney breakdownis actually uric acid crystals throughout the body,and worse in the joints,which made the gharial unable to swim.And it&#39;s a horribly painful death.
时间：11:34
zh-cn:昌巴尔河的下游是神圣但却肮脏的亚穆纳河。我不想讽刺什么，但这是事实。这是你能想象的最脏的河了。它流经德里，马图拉和阿格拉，受到各种污水的污染。杀死长吻鄂的毒素似乎来自于食物链，来自一种它们猎食的鱼。大家都知道，一旦毒素进入食物链，所有生物都会受到影响，包括我们。
en:Just downriver from the Chambal is thefilthy Yamuna river, the sacred Yamuna river.And I hate to be so ironic and sarcastic about itbut it&#39;s the truth. It&#39;s just one of the filthiest cesspools you can imagine.It flows down through Delhi, Mathura, Agra,and gets just about every bit of effluent you can imagine.So, it seemed that the toxin that was killing the gharialwas something in the food chain,something in the fish they were eating.And, you know, once a toxin is in the food chaineverything is affected, including us.
时间：12:06
zh-cn:这些河流无疑是当地人的生命线。为了解答这些疑问，我们再次借助科技，这次是生物科技。我们在10条长吻鄂装上身上遥测无线电，记录它们的行踪。我们监视它们来找出这些毒素的真面目。
en:Because these rivers are the lifeblood of people all along their course.In order to try to answer some of these questions,we again turn to technology,to biological technology, in this case,again, telemetry, putting radios on 10 gharial,and actually following their movements. They&#39;re being watchedeveryday as we speak, to try to find outwhat this mysterious toxin is.
时间：12:28
zh-cn:昌巴尔河是个不可思议的地方，这个地方很出名，因为曾经有强盗和土匪在这一带出没，直到今天还有一些。普兰·黛维就曾是其中一员，她的故事被谢加·卡普尔拍成电影——《土匪女皇》，我强烈建议你们去看一下。你们能在电影里看到昌巴尔河极美的风景。
en:The Chambal river is an absolutely incredible place.It&#39;s a place that&#39;s famous to a lot of you who knowabout the bandits, the dacoitswho used to work up there. And there still are quite a few around.But Poolan Devi was one [of them]. Which actually Shekhar Kapurmade an incredible movie, &quot;The Bandit Queen,&quot; which I urge you to see.You&#39;ll get to see the incredible [Chambal] landscape as well.
时间：12:50
zh-cn:但是，渔业使它不堪重负。这里已是恒河海豚、各种乌龟，和无数候鸟最后的家园了，但是渔业带来了众多问题。人类对长吻鄂这类河流生物的不宽容导致了它们不是被困死在渔网内就是被砍去嘴巴。恒河海豚现在所剩无几，已经濒临灭绝。
en:But, again, heavy fishing pressures.This is one of the last repositories of theGanges river dolphin,various species of turtles,thousands of migratory birds,and fishing is causing problems like this.And now [these] new elements of human intolerancefor river creatures like the gharialmeans that if they don&#39;t drown in the net,then they simply cut their beaks off.Animals like the Ganges river dolphinwhich is just down to a few left,and it is also critically endangered.
时间：13:25
zh-cn:下一个会是谁？我们？人类依赖水资源。我们知道纳尔默达河水坝的悲剧，人类工程项目的悲剧导致了河流生态系统的严重破坏，再也不能滋养生命。人类发展已近疯狂，增长指数成了两位数。但我们不知道最终会走向哪里，是喜是悲。气候剧变显然会颠覆我们的理论和预测。我们仍在努力工作，我们有很多很好的团队在为此努力。
en:So, who is next? Us?Because we are all dependent on these water sources.So, we all know about the Narmada river,the tragedies of dams, the tragedies of huge projectswhich displace people and wreck river systemswithout providing livelihoods.And development just basically going berserk,for a double figure growth index, basically.So, we&#39;re not sure where this story is going to end,whether it&#39;s got a happy or sad ending.And climate change is certainly goingto turn all of our theories and predictions on their heads.We&#39;re still working hard at it.We&#39;ve got a lot of a good team of people working up there.
时间：14:03
zh-cn:但是，那些决策者，有权力的人，他们呆在德里的别墅里，不用愁没水喝，生活很棒。但是在外头有数百万人身陷困境。他们的未来是惨淡的。所以我们要清理恒河与亚穆纳河。我们在这个项目上花费了上亿的经费，但却效果甚微，真不敢相信。于是大家想到了政治因素。在长吻鄂大批死亡期间，我们采取了很多行动。政府削减所有的繁文缛节，请来了国外兽医。这很重要，这样我们才能够成功。但你若是沿着亚穆纳河，一直走到勒克瑙的戈马蒂，或者到钦奈的阿达亚河，或者是浦那的木拉穆塔河，去看看我们能够为这条河所作的，真的是少得可怜。
en:And the thing is, you know, the decision makers,the folks in power,they&#39;re up in their bungalows and so on in Delhi,in the city capitals. They are all supplied with plenty of water. It&#39;s cool.But out on the rivers there are still millions of peoplewho are in really bad shape.And it&#39;s a bleak future for them.So, we have our Ganges and Yamuna cleanup project.We&#39;ve spent hundreds of millions of dollars on it,and nothing to show for it. Incredible.So, people talk about political will.During the die-off of the gharial we did galvanize a lot of action.Government cut through all the red tape,we got foreign vets on it. It was great.So, we can do it.But if you stroll down to the Yamunaor to the Gomati in Lucknow,or to the Adyar river in Chennai,or the Mula-Mutha river in Pune,just see what we&#39;re capable of doing to a river. It&#39;s sad.
时间：14:55
zh-cn:不过我还是坚信我们终会成功。企业，艺术家，野生动物迷，和民众，可以把河流带回原来的样子。我最后想说的是，这里有一条眼镜王蛇和一条长吻鄂在看着我们，它们是强大的图腾，它们将一直骚扰我们，除非我们善待它们。谢谢。（观众鼓掌）
en:But I think the final note really isthat we can do it.The corporates, the artists, the wildlife nuts,the good old everyday folkscan actually bring these rivers back.And the final word isthat there is a king cobra looking over our shoulders.And there is a gharial looking at us from the river.And these are powerful water totems.And they are going to disturb our dreams until we do the right thing.Namaste.(Applause)
时间：15:32
zh-cn:克里斯·安德森：谢谢罗穆，十分感谢。很多人害怕蛇，甚至可能有人会希望看到眼镜王蛇灭绝。你有没有与这样的人交谈过？你是怎样让他们转变的？
en:Chris Anderson: Thanks, Rom. Thanks a lot.You know, most people are terrified of snakes.And there might be quite a few people here who would bevery glad to see the last king cobra bite the dust.Do you have those conversations with people?How do you really get them to care?
时间：15:48
zh-cn:罗穆卢斯·惠特克:我采取一种谦虚的态度。我不会说蛇是可爱的动物，他们不是泰迪熊。但是，它们身上也有一种纯真。当人们看到眼镜王蛇发出“嘶嘶”声时，他们会说，“哦天呐，看那个危险的家伙。”但在我看来，它们不过是被人类吓到了。这是事实。也是我想告诉大家的。（观众鼓掌）
en:Romulus Whitaker: I take the sort of humble approach,I guess you could say. I don&#39;t say that snakes are huggable exactly.It&#39;s not like the teddy bear.But I sort of — there is an innocence in these animals.And when the average person looks at a cobragoing &quot;Ssssss!&quot; like that, they say, &quot;My god,look at that angry, dangerous creature.&quot;I look at it as a creature who is totally frightenedof something so dangerous as a human being.And that is the truth. And that&#39;s what I try to get out.(Applause)
时间：16:23
zh-cn:安德森：那么，关于那个毒蛇被吃掉的视频，你说以前从拍摄到过这样的场景。
en:CA: Now, incredible footage you showed of the viper being killed.You were saying that that hasn&#39;t been filmed before.
时间：16:28
zh-cn:惠特克：是的，这是第一次人们知道这样的事。就像我说过的，毒蛇不过是它的点心。通常它们吃更大的蛇，比如食鼠蛇，甚至是眼镜蛇。但是我们追踪的这家伙现在正在丛林深处，而其他眼镜王蛇经常出没在人类聚居地，它们可以在农场里找到大的食鼠蛇。这家伙专吃蝮蛇，一位来自马哈拉施特拉的，专门研究眼镜王蛇的同事说：“它一定是追求‘纳莎’。”（观众笑）“纳莎”就是亢奋的意思每当它捕食蝮蛇的时候，它就过一把蛇毒瘾。（观众笑）
en:RW: Yes, this is actually the first time anyone of us knew about it, for one thing.As I said, it&#39;s just like a little snack for him, you know?Usually they eat larger snakes like rat snakes,or even cobras.But this guy who we&#39;re following right now is in the deep jungle.Whereas other king cobrasvery often come into the human interface,you know, the plantations, to find big rat snakes and stuff.This guy specializes in pit vipers.And the guy who is working there with them,he&#39;s from Maharashtra, he said, &quot;I think he&#39;s after the nusha.&quot;(Laughter)Now, the nusha means the high.Whenever he eats the pit viper he gets this little venom rush.(Laughter)
时间：17:05
zh-cn:安德森:谢谢你。（观众鼓掌）
en:CA: Thanks Rom. Thank you.(Applause)
