时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在我三四岁时我记得我妈妈给我和两个哥哥读过一个故事我记得我伸出手去感触书页去感触他们正在谈论的图画
en:When I was about three or four years old,I remember my mum reading a story to meand my two big brothers,and I remember putting up my handsto feel the page of the book,to feel the picture they were discussing.
时间： 0:30
zh-cn:然后我妈妈说：“亲爱的，你要记得，你看不见你看不见这图画你也不能感觉到书页上的字。”
en:And my mum said, &quot;Darling,remember that you can&#39;t seeand you can&#39;t feel the pictureand you can&#39;t feel the print on the page.&quot;
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:而我在心里想“但这正是我想做的。我喜欢故事。我想读书。”我那时候并不知道我将会成为技术革命的一个部分这个革命将实现我的梦想。
en:And I thought to myself,&quot;But that&#39;s what I want to do.I love stories. I want to read.&quot;Little did I knowthat I would be part of a technological revolutionthat would make that dream come true.
时间： 0:57
zh-cn:我是一个早产儿，大约提前10周出生，这导致了我的失明，在64年以前。这种疾病叫做晶状体后纤维增生症，现在在发达国家中很少见，我那时几乎不知道，1948年，当我躺在恒温培养箱里的时候我生在了正确的地点正确的时间我生在了这样一个国家让我能参与到技术革命中。
en:I was born premature by about 10 weeks,which resulted in my blindness, some 64 years ago.The condition is known as retrolental fibroplasia,and it&#39;s now very rare in the developed world.Little did I know, lying curled upin my prim baby humidicrib in 1948that I&#39;d been born at the right placeand the right time,that I was in a country where I could participatein the technological revolution.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:现在在我们这个星球上，共有3700万完全失明的人但是我们中间共享了技术进步的好处的主要来自北美，欧洲，日本和其它发达国家。计算机改变了在场所有人以及全世界人的生活，但是我认为和其他人相比计算机给我们盲人生活带来的改变更大。所以我想和你们聊聊我的经历关于以计算机为基础的适应技术和许多多年帮助过我的志愿者们成就了现在的我这是关于一个志愿者，激情的发明家和科技的合作还有一个每个盲人都会讲的故事今天让我讲一点这样的故事
en:There are 37 million totally blind people on our planet,but those of us who&#39;ve shared in the technological changesmainly come from North America, Europe,Japan and other developed parts of the world.Computers have changed the lives of us all in this roomand around the world,but I think they&#39;ve changed the livesof we blind people more than any other group.And so I want to tell you about the interactionbetween computer-based adaptive technologyand the many volunteers who helped me over the yearsto become the person I am today.It&#39;s an interaction between volunteers,passionate inventors and technology,and it&#39;s a story that many other blind people could tell.But let me tell you a bit about it today.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:当我五岁的时候，我在学校学习了盲文它是一套精妙的系统六个打在纸上的点我可以用手指感受到它们事实上，我想他们在展示我的成绩单我不知道Julian Morrow从哪里得到它（笑）我很擅长阅读但是宗教和音乐欣赏需要更努力（笑）
en:When I was five, I went to school and I learned braille.It&#39;s an ingenious system of six dotsthat are punched into paper,and I can feel them with my fingers.In fact, I think they&#39;re putting up my grade six report.I don&#39;t know where Julian Morrow got that from.(Laughter)I was pretty good in reading,but religion and musical appreciation needed more work.(Laughter)
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:当你离开歌剧院你会发现电梯里的盲文标示找一找。你留意过它么？我留意过。我一直在寻找它。
en:When you leave the opera house,you&#39;ll find there&#39;s braille signage in the lifts.Look for it. Have you noticed it?I do. I look for it all the time.
时间： 3:04
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:在我上学的时候图书是有抄写者抄写志愿者一字一句的打点才使我有书籍可以阅读这个过程主要由女性完成在这个国家一直持续到19世纪后期但是这是我唯一能够阅读的途径当我上高中时我得到了我第一个Philips磁带录音机录音机成为了我某种意义上前计算机时代的学习途径我可以让我的亲人和朋友帮我读资料然后我可以随后多次阅读只要我愿意它还让我与志愿者和协助者保持联系例如，当我在加拿大的Queen&#39;s University学习研究生课程时Collins Bay监狱的服刑者同意帮助我我给他们录音机，然后他们录下内容就像他们其中的一人说的“Ron，反正我们现在哪里都去不了”
en:When I was at school,the books were transcribed by transcribers,voluntary people who punched one dot at a timeso I&#39;d have volumes to read,and that had been going on, mainly by women,since the late 19th century in this country,but it was the only way I could read.When I was in high school,I got my first Philips reel-to-reel tape recorder,and tape recorders became my sort of pre-computermedium of learning.I could have family and friends read me material,and I could then read it backas many times as I needed.And it brought me into contactwith volunteers and helpers.For example, when I studied at graduate schoolat Queen&#39;s University in Canada,the prisoners at the Collins Bay jail agreed to help me.I gave them a tape recorder, and they read into it.As one of them said to me,&quot;Ron, we ain&#39;t going anywhere at the moment.&quot;
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:但是想一想，这些人他们从没拥有过我拥有的教育机会帮助了我取得了法律研究生学位通过他们一心一意的帮助
en:But think of it. These men,who hadn&#39;t had the educational opportunities I&#39;d had,helped me gain post-graduate qualifications in lawby their dedicated help.
时间： 4:21
zh-cn:当我回来成为一名Melbourne&#39;s Monash University的学者在那25年的时间里录音机是我的全部事实上，1990年，在我的办公室我有18公里长的磁带学生，亲人，和朋友都帮助我录制资料路·杜瑞女士是我后来称她为我的代理母亲她为我录制了几千小时的磁带我同意这次演讲的一个原因就是我希望她可以在这里这样我就可以让大家认识她，并公开感谢她然而，遗憾的是，她的健康状况不允许她今天出席但是我依旧要通过这个平台，表达对你的感谢。
en:Well, I went back and became an academicat Melbourne&#39;s Monash University,and for those 25 years,tape recorders were everything to me.In fact, in my office in 1990,I had 18 miles of tape.Students, family and friends all read me material.Mrs. Lois Doery,whom I later came to call my surrogate mum,read me many thousands of hours onto tape.One of the reasons I agreed to give this talk todaywas that I was hoping that Lois would be hereso I could introduce you to her and publicly thank her.But sadly, her health hasn&#39;t permitted her to come today.But I thank you here, Lois, from this platform.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:我在1984年见到我的第一台苹果电脑我对自己说“这个东西是玻璃屏幕，对我没有用处”我当时有多么的错误在1987年，在我最大的儿子杰拉德出生的月份我得到了我的第一台盲人电脑它实际就在这里看到它了么？你看到了它没有，你们所说的，“屏幕”（笑）它是一台盲人电脑（笑）它的型号是Keynote Gold 84K，84k表示它拥有8.4万字节的内存（笑）不要笑， 它当时花费了我近4,000美元（笑）我想我的手表有更大的内存
en:I saw my first Apple computer in 1984,and I thought to myself,&quot;This thing&#39;s got a glass screen, not much use to me.&quot;How very wrong I was.In 1987, in the month our eldest son Gerard was born,I got my first blind computer,and it&#39;s actually here.See it up there?And you see it has no, what do you call it, no screen.(Laughter)It&#39;s a blind computer.(Laughter)It&#39;s a Keynote Gold 84k,and the 84k stands for it had 84 kilobytes of memory.(Laughter)Don&#39;t laugh, it cost me 4,000 dollars at the time. (Laughter)I think there&#39;s more memory in my watch.
时间： 6:26
zh-cn:它由新西兰的罗斯·史密斯发明，他是一位很有激情的发明家一直尝试着帮助盲人遗憾的是，2005年他在一场空难中去世但是关于他的记忆一直在我心中它意味着，头一次，我能够重读我写过的内容它有语音合成器1979年，我曾经在一台打字机上完全凭借记忆，写了我第一本劳动法的合著现在它允许我重读我写过的内容并让我进入了计算机的世界尽管它只有84k的内存
en:It was invented by Russell Smith, a passionate inventorin New Zealand who was trying to help blind people.Sadly, he died in a light plane crash in 2005,but his memory lives on in my heart.It meant, for the first time,I could read back what I had typed into it.It had a speech synthesizer.I&#39;d written my first coauthored labor law bookon a typewriter in 1979 purely from memory.This now allowed me to read back what I&#39;d writtenand to enter the computer world,even with its 84k of memory.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:1974年，伟大的Ray Kurzweil，一位美国发明家致力于开发一台机器可以扫描书籍并把文字以合成语音阅读出来当时视觉文字识别系统只能识别一种字体但是通过运用感光扫描仪和人工语音合成系统他开发了一个可以阅读任何字体的机器他的机器与洗衣机一样大在1976年1月13号正式发布在1989年3月份，我第一次见到了可商用的Kurzweil机器它给我留下了深刻的印象1989年9月份我获得了莫纳什大学助理教授的教职法学院购得了一台，并且我可以使用它人生中头一次，我可以读我想读的书籍只要把那本书放在扫描仪上不需要我款待他人
en:In 1974, the great Ray Kurzweil, the American inventor,worked on building a machine that would scan booksand read them out in synthetic speech.Optical character recognition units thenonly operated usually on one font,but by using charge-coupled device flatbed scannersand speech synthesizers,he developed a machine that could read any font.And his machine, which was as big as a washing machine,was launched on the 13th of January, 1976.I saw my first commercially available Kurzweilin March 1989, and it blew me away,and in September 1989,the month that my associate professorshipat Monash University was announced,the law school got one, and I could use it.For the first time, I could read what I wanted to readby putting a book on the scanner.I didn&#39;t have to be nice to people!
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:04
zh-cn:我不再需要很审慎比如，我过去太羞涩当然现在也很羞涩，请求别人帮我阅读直白的情爱资料（笑）但是，你懂的，我可以在深夜将一本书放在扫描仪上（笑）（鼓掌）
en:I no longer would be censored.For example, I was too shy then,and I&#39;m actually too shy now, to ask anybodyto read me out loud sexually explicit material.(Laughter)But, you know, I could pop a book on in the middle of the night, and —(Laughter) (Applause)
时间： 8:32
zh-cn:现在，库兹维尔阅读器只是我笔记本上的一个程序它缩小到现在这样现在我可以扫描最新的小说迫不及待的把它加入语音图书馆中我可以与朋友分享
en:Now, the Kurzweil reader is simplya program on my laptop.That&#39;s what it&#39;s shrunk to.And now I can scan the latest noveland not wait to get it into talking book libraries.I can keep up with my friends.
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:有很多人在我人生中帮助过我其中很多我从没见过一位是美国发明家泰德·韩特泰德曾是摩托车赛车手但是在1978年他经历了一次车祸，从而失去了视力这将是灾难性的如果你尝试去骑摩托车他后来成为了划水运动员一度是残疾人划水运动冠军然而在1989年，他与比尔·乔伊斯合作开发了一个程序，可以阅读任何在电脑屏幕上的内容无论来自网络或者电脑上的资料名叫JAWS，就是语音辅助系统的意思（Job Access With Speech）它读起来是这样的
en:There are many people who have helped me in my life,and many that I haven&#39;t met.One is another American inventor Ted Henter.Ted was a motorcycle racer,but in 1978 he had a car accident and lost his sight,which is devastating if you&#39;re trying to ride motorbikes.He then turned to being a waterskierand was a champion disabled waterskier.But in 1989, he teamed up with Bill Joyceto develop a program that would read outwhat was on the computer screenfrom the Net or from what was on the computer.It&#39;s called JAWS, Job Access With Speech,and it sounds like this.
时间： 9:29
zh-cn:（JAWS 在阅读）
en:(JAWS speaking)
时间： 9:40
zh-cn:它是不是很慢？
en:Ron McCallum: Isn&#39;t that slow?
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:（笑）如果我这样阅读，我可能睡着我已经为你调慢了速度我会要求以我平时阅读的速度重播一边可以重播一边么？
en:(Laughter)You see, if I read like that, I&#39;d fall asleep.I slowed it down for you.I&#39;m going to ask that we play it at the speed I read it.Can we play that one?
时间： 9:52
zh-cn:（JAWS 在阅读）
en:(JAWS speaking)
时间：10:06
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:08
zh-cn:你懂的，如果你在给学生的论文评分你希望快点读完他们
en:RM: You know, when you&#39;re marking student essays,you want to get through them fairly quickly.
时间：10:12
zh-cn:（笑）（鼓掌）
en:(Laughter) (Applause)
时间：10:22
zh-cn:这项在1987年吸引我的技术现在就在我的iPhone上，也在你们的iPhone上但是，我发现和机器一起阅读是一个非常孤独的过程在我的成长中，亲人，朋友陪伴我阅读我热爱人们阅读中的温暖，气息，和亲密你希望倾听么？一段我最珍爱的记忆是1999年，Mary为我和孩子们阅读在Manly海滩边“哈利波特和魔法石”那不是一本很棒的书么？我依旧热爱与为我阅读的人保持亲密但是我不会放弃科技因为它允许我过上了美好的生活
en:This technology that fascinated me in 1987is now on my iPhone and on yours as well.But, you know, I find reading with machinesa very lonely process.I grew up with family, friends, reading to me,and I loved the warmth and the breathand the closeness of people reading.Do you love being read to?And one of my most enduring memoriesis in 1999, Mary reading to me and the childrendown near Manly Beach&quot;Harry Potter and the Philosopher&#39;s Stone.&quot;Isn&#39;t that a great book?I still love being close to someone reading to me.But I wouldn&#39;t give up the technology,because it&#39;s allowed me to lead a great life.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:当然，盲人的有声读物先于这些科技毕竟，可以长时间播放的录音在19世纪30年代初期已经发明了现在我们将图书刻录在CD上通过DAISY数码系统但是当我通过人工语音阅读时我期望回到家里听到真实的声音阅读一本轻快的小说
en:Of course, talking books for the blindpredated all this technology.After all, the long-playing record was developedin the early 1930s,and now we put talking books on CDsusing the digital access system known as DAISY.But when I&#39;m reading with synthetic voices,I love to come home and read a racy novelwith a real voice.
时间：11:41
zh-cn:现在依旧有很多障碍阻挡在我们残疾人面前很多网站我们不能通过JAWS系统阅读或者其他的技术网站通常很视觉化有很多各种各样的图片它们没有被标示，按钮也没有被标示这就是为什么World Wide Web Consortium 3，W3C，开发了一套世界通用的互联网准则因而，我们希望所有互联网用户和互联网拥有者让他们的网站兼容这样，我们这些没有视觉的人们，可以有一席之地还有其他由法律产生的障碍例如，澳大利亚，就像世界上三分之一的国家一样，有版权特例，允许书籍被翻译成盲字或者为我们盲人阅读但是这些书籍不能跨越国界例如，在西班牙，有100,000本可使用的西班牙语图书在阿根廷，有五万本在其他拉丁美洲国家有上千本但是将图书从西班牙带到拉丁美洲是违法的有十万多本可使用的图书在美国，英国，加拿大，澳大利亚，等等但是他们不能被带到其他60多个英语是母语或者第二语言的国家记得我曾告诉你们关于哈利·波特的故事因为我们不能将图书穿越国境因此必须有很多独立的阅读版本在不同的英语国家：英国，美国，加拿大，澳大利亚，和新西兰，都必须拥有不同语音版本的Harry Potter
en:Now there are still barriersin front of we people with disabilities.Many websites we can&#39;t read using JAWSand the other technologies.Websites are often very visual,and there are all these sorts of graphsthat aren&#39;t labeled and buttons that aren&#39;t labeled,and that&#39;s why the World Wide Web Consortium 3,known as W3C, has developed worldwide standardsfor the Internet.And we want all Internet users or Internet site ownersto make their sites compatible so thatwe persons without vision can have a level playing field.There are other barriers brought about by our laws.For example, Australia,like about one third of the world&#39;s countries,has copyright exceptions which allow books to be brailledor read for we blind persons.But those books can&#39;t travel across borders.For example, in Spain, there are a 100,000accessible books in Spanish.In Argentina, there are 50,000.In no other Latin American countryare there more than a couple of thousand.But it&#39;s not legal to transport the booksfrom Spain to Latin America.There are hundreds of thousands of accessible booksin the United States, Britain, Canada, Australia, etc.,but they can&#39;t be transported to the 60 countriesin our world where English is the first and the second language.And remember I was telling you about Harry Potter.Well, because we can&#39;t transport books across borders,there had to be separate versions readin all the different English-speaking countries:Britain, United States, Canada, Australia,and New Zealand all had to haveseparate readings of Harry Potter.
时间：13:25
zh-cn:这就是为什么，下个月在Morocco，一个国际会议将举行它关于一些国家和世界盲人组织所倡导的一个跨界协议期望如果一些图书在一个版权特例下可使用其他国家也有版权特例我们就可以让这些图书穿越国界给予人们生活，尤其在发展中国家，那些没有书籍可以阅读的盲人们我希望这可以成为现实
en:And that&#39;s why, next month in Morocco,a meeting is taking place between all the countries.It&#39;s something that a group of countriesand the World Blind Union are advocating,a cross-border treatyso that if books are available under a copyright exceptionand the other country has a copyright exception,we can transport those books across bordersand give life to people, particularly in developing countries,blind people who don&#39;t have the books to read.I want that to happen.
时间：13:53
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：14:01
zh-cn:我的人生很幸运拥有美好的婚姻和孩子还有非常有趣的工作不论是在悉尼大学法学院在那里我曾任职院长或者我在日内瓦联合国委员会代表残疾人的利益我一直以来都是非常幸运的人
en:My life has been extraordinarily blessedwith marriage and childrenand certainly interesting work to do,whether it be at the University of Sydney Law School,where I served a term as dean,or now as I sit on the United Nations Committeeon the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in Geneva.I&#39;ve indeed been a very fortunate human being.
时间：14:26
zh-cn:我猜想未来会是如何科技会更加进步但是我始终记得，母亲在60年前说的话，“记住，亲爱的，用你的手指，你永远不能阅读到纸上的文字我很庆幸，盲文翻译员志愿者，和激情发明家的相互影响让我可以阅读的梦想变成现实也让世界上所有盲人的梦想成真
en:I wonder what the future will hold.The technology will advance even further,but I can still remember my mum saying, 60 years ago,&quot;Remember, darling,you&#39;ll never be able to read the print with your fingers.&quot;I&#39;m so glad that the interaction between braille transcribers,volunteer readers and passionate inventors,has allowed this dream of reading to come true for meand for blind people throughout the world.
时间：14:56
zh-cn:我要感谢我的研究员汉娜·马丁，她是我的投影助手，帮我播放投影和我的妻子，玛丽·库鲁克教授，她是我生活的光芒她正准备接走我我也要感谢她
en:I&#39;d like to thank my researcher Hannah Martin,who is my slide clicker, who clicks the slides,and my wife, Professor Mary Crock, who&#39;s the light of my life,is coming on to collect me.I want to thank her too.
时间：15:10
zh-cn:我想我要说再见了祝福你们。感谢您们。
en:I think I have to say goodbye now.Bless you. Thank you very much.
时间：15:14
zh-cn:（鼓掌）Yay！（鼓掌）好。好。好。好。好。（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)Yay! (Applause)Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. (Applause)
