时间： 0:11
zh-cn:小比利有一天去上学老师问他“你爸爸是做什么的？”小比利说：“我爸爸在鸦片馆里弹钢琴“于是老师给小比利的父母打电话：”小比利今天告诉我们一个很惊悚的故事，他说你在鸦片馆里给人弹钢琴比利的爸爸说：我很抱歉，我确实说谎了但是我要怎么跟一个八岁的孩子说他的爸爸是个政客呢？（笑声）
en:So little Billy goes to school,and he sits down and the teacher says,&quot;What does your father do?&quot;And little Billy says, &quot;My father plays the pianoin an opium den.&quot;So the teacher rings up the parents, and says,&quot;Very shocking story from little Billy today.Just heard that he claimed that you play the pianoin an opium den.&quot;And the father says, &quot;I&#39;m very sorry. Yes, it&#39;s true, I lied.But how can I tell an eight-year-old boythat his father is a politician?&quot; (Laughter)
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:现在，我自己作为一个政客站在你们面前或者在在世界各地与陌生人会面当我告诉他们我是个政客的时候他们看我的眼神，就好像我是某种蛇，猴子和蜥蜴的混合体我非常强烈地感觉到这里面有什么东西不太对劲我们的民主体系已经发展了四百年我在国会里的那些同事，在我看来都是非常有魅力，受过高等教育精力充沛而且有教养的人但是人们却对我们充满了深深的失望在新一届的议会中，我的同事包括医生，企业家，教授著名经济学家，历史学家，作家还有军官，上至上校，下至准尉但是所有人，也包括我自己当我们和人们打交道时我们觉得我们的能力被忽视了我们觉得我们的作用被低估了
en:Now, as a politician myself, standing in front of you,or indeed, meeting any stranger anywhere in the world,when I eventually reveal the nature of my profession,they look at me as though I&#39;m somewhere betweena snake, a monkey and an iguana,and through all of this, I feel, strongly,that something is going wrong.Four hundred years of maturing democracy,colleagues in Parliament who seem to me, as individuals,reasonably impressive, an increasingly educated,energetic, informed population, and yeta deep, deep sense of disappointment.My colleagues in Parliament include, in my new intake,family doctors, businesspeople, professors,distinguished economists, historians, writers,army officers ranging from colonels down to regimental sergeant majors.All of them, however, including myself, as we walk underneaththose strange stone gargoyles just down the road,feel that we&#39;ve become less than the sum of our parts,feel as though we have become profoundly diminished.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:这并不是一个在英国才有的问题这个问题广泛存在于发达国家世界里在中等收入国家里也是如此举个例子，在牙买加他们的议员很多都是罗德奖学金获得者毕业于哈佛或者普林斯顿但是你走到金斯顿（牙买加首都）市区里看看你看到的是你在一个中等收入国家里能看到的最萧条，最阴郁的景象放眼望去，房屋要么被烧毁要么基本为半废弃状态这样的状况已经持续了30年1979,1980年的权力交接时期领导人从一个罗德奖学金获得者和一个皇室法律顾问的儿子变成一个哈佛经济学博士但那时大街上因滥用毒品引发的暴力而被杀死的人有800人之多
en:And this isn&#39;t just a problem in Britain.It&#39;s a problem across the developing world,and in middle income countries too. In Jamaica,for example — look at Jamaican members of Parliament,you meet them, and they&#39;re often people who areRhodes Scholars, who&#39;ve studied at Harvard or at Princeton,and yet, you go down to downtown Kingston,and you are looking at one of the most depressing sitesthat you can see in any middle-income country in the world:a dismal, depressing landscapeof burnt and half-abandoned buildings.And this has been true for 30 years, and the handoverin 1979, 1980, between one Jamaican leader who wasthe son of a Rhodes Scholar and a Q.C. to anotherwho&#39;d done an economics doctorate at Harvard,over 800 people were killed in the streetsin drug-related violence.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:10年前，我们都认为民主的前景会越来越乐观乔治.W.布什2003年在演讲时说民主是能够治愈世界上大部分问题的良药因为民主的政府尊重他的人民尊重他的邻邦，自由可以带来和平学者们那时候也认为民主可以在很多方面都带来有益的帮助他们认为民主可以带来繁荣，安定消除宗派主义产生的暴力使一个国家再也不用担心恐怖主义的威胁
en:Ten years ago, however, the promise of democracyseemed to be extraordinary. George W. Bush stood upin his State of the Union address in 2003and said that democracy was the force that would beatmost of the ills of the world. He said,because democratic governments respect their own peopleand respect their neighbors, freedom will bring peace.Distinguished academics at the same time argued thatdemocracies had this incredible range of side benefits.They would bring prosperity, security,overcome sectarian violence,ensure that states would never again harbor terrorists.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:可在那以后情况又是怎样呢？我们能看到的是，在伊拉克和阿富汗成立了民主政府但是却没有得到上述的一点好处举例来说，在阿富汗，我们不仅仅举行了一次两次选举我们整整选举了三次有总统选举，也有议会选举。结果是怎样的呢？我们是不是就此建立了一个繁荣昌盛，守法有序和平安定的民主社会了呢？不是。我们在阿富汗看到的是法律体系脆弱而腐朽社会秩序杂乱无章媒体才刚刚开始起步但政府却失去了公信力被人民认为是腐败的政权社会治安更是糟糕在巴基斯坦，还有很多撒哈拉以南的非洲国家你也可以看到一些采用选举系统的民主政权仍旧腐朽不堪国家仍处在不安定和危险之中当我和那里的人们交谈的时候我记得我有次在伊拉克有人问我我们现在眼前所见到的这些暴乱那时我们眼前是一大群暴徒洗劫省政府大楼的情景是否是新的民主政权的标志？我感到，在我去过的每一个发展中国家甚至于在我们自己的国家这样的情况都是存在的
en:Since then, what&#39;s happened?Well, what we&#39;ve seen is the creation, in places like Iraqand Afghanistan, of democratic systems of governmentwhich haven&#39;t had any of those side benefits.In Afghanistan, for example, we haven&#39;t just had one electionor two elections. We&#39;ve gone through three elections,presidential and parliamentary. And what do we find?Do we find a flourishing civil society, a vigorous rule of lawand good security? No. What we find in Afghanistanis a judiciary that is weak and corrupt,a very limited civil society which is largely ineffective,a media which is beginning to get onto its feetbut a government that&#39;s deeply unpopular,perceived as being deeply corrupt, and securitythat is shocking, security that&#39;s terrible.In Pakistan, in lots of sub-Saharan Africa,again you can see democracy and elections are compatiblewith corrupt governments, with states that are unstableand dangerous.And when I have conversations with people, I rememberhaving a conversation, for example, in Iraq,with a community that asked mewhether the riot we were seeing in front of us,this was a huge mob ransacking a provincial council building,was a sign of the new democracy.The same, I felt, was true in almost every single oneof the middle and developing countries that I went to,and to some extent the same is true of us.
时间： 5:28
zh-cn:那么，我们到底应该如何来应对这个问题？我们难道应该就此放弃民主吗？显然，答案是否定的如果我们要把伊拉克和阿富汗再次变成之前的模样如果我们忽然意识到我们所推行的并非一个民主的系统而是其他的东西其他与我们的价值观，人民的意愿还有我们的利益背道而驰的东西那将是非常荒谬的我还记得在伊拉克的时候有一段时间我们觉得也许应该推迟那里的民主进程我们觉得波斯尼亚的教训告诉我们如果选举进行的太早反而会助长宗派主义暴力和极端主义党派的发展所以2003年我们在伊拉克做出了一个决定那就是在两年内不进行选举而把精力先放在选民教育和民主化上结果是，我的办公室门口堵了一大群人这张照片其实是在利比亚拍的但是和我在伊拉克看到的情景一模一样人们挤在门外，叫嚷着要求选举我一出去，他们就喊：“临时省委会怎么了？我们选出来的人哪里不对了？“委员会里面有逊尼派的酋长，有什叶派的酋长有来自七个主要部落的七大族长有基督教徒，有赛比教徒有妇女代表，有每个党派的代表我们选出来的这些人到底哪里不对了？”我的回答是这样的：“问题不在于你选出来的人，而在于你选了他们。”在阿富汗，即使是最偏僻的地区我也从来没遇见过一个人说他不想参与决定谁来统治他们从来没遇见过一个人说他不想进行投票
en:Well, what is the answer to this? Is the answer to justgive up on the idea of democracy?Well, obviously not. It would be absurdif we were to engage again in the kind of operationswe were engaged in, in Iraq and Afghanistanif we were to suddenly find ourselves in a situationin which we were imposinganything other than a democratic system.Anything else would run contrary to our values,it would run contrary to the wishes of the peopleon the ground, it would run contrary to our interests.I remember in Iraq, for example, that we went througha period of feeling that we should delay democracy.We went through a period of feeling that the lesson learnedfrom Bosnia was that elections held too earlyenshrined sectarian violence, enshrined extremist parties,so in Iraq in 2003 the decision was made,let&#39;s not have elections for two years. Let&#39;s invest invoter education. Let&#39;s invest in democratization.The result was that I found stuck outside my officea huge crowd of people, this is actually a photographtaken in Libya but I saw the same scene in Iraqof people standing outside screaming for the elections,and when I went out and said, &quot;What is wrongwith the interim provincial council?What is wrong with the people that we have chosen?There is a Sunni sheikh, there&#39;s a Shiite sheikh,there&#39;s the seven — leaders of the seven major tribes,there&#39;s a Christian, there&#39;s a Sabian,there are female representatives, there&#39;s every political party in this council,what&#39;s wrong with the people that we chose?&quot;The answer came, &quot;The problem isn&#39;t the peoplethat you chose. The problem is that you chose them.&quot;I have not met, in Afghanistan, in even the mostremote community, anybody who does not wanta say in who governs them.Most remote community, I have never met a villagerwho does not want a vote.
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:所以我们要认识到即使那些真实性有待考究的数据说84％的英国人认为英国的政治是腐朽的即使当我在伊拉克时，我们做了一个民意调查那是在03年，我们要求民众选择他们更喜欢的政治体系结果是这样的7％想要美国模式5％想要法国模式3％想要英国模式却有将近40％选择了迪拜模式阿联酋甚至都不是一个民主国家，而是一个相对繁荣的君主制国家。民主是我们应该为之奋斗的价值观。但首先我们应该避免整天把那些“民主的好处”挂在嘴边我们应该避免说：民主很重要因为它可以带来很多好处同样的道理，我们应该避免说人权很重要，或者是女性权利很重要因为它们可以带来很多好处为什么我们应该避免这样的论点？因为它们的根基是薄弱的举个例子，拷打人是错误的，因为它不能收集到有用的信息或者我们说，我们需要妇女权利因为它可以使劳力翻番，促进经济你就给自己留下了被人击溃的突破口这时候朝鲜政府就可以说“事实上我们现在正是用折磨的手段获取了很多有用的信息”沙特阿拉伯政府也可以说“谢谢你们的关心，我们的经济还可以比你们可能还要稍微好一点所以我们大概用不着搞那些争取妇女权利的运动了
en:So we need to acknowledgethat despite the dubious statistics, despite the fact that84 percent of people in Britain feel politics is broken,despite the fact that when I was in Iraq, we did an opinion pollin 2003 and asked people what political systems they preferred,and the answer came back thatseven percent wanted the United States,five percent wanted France,three percent wanted Britain,and nearly 40 percent wanted Dubai, which is, after all,not a democratic state at all but a relatively prosperousminor monarchy, democracy is a thing of valuefor which we should be fighting. But in order to do sowe need to get away from instrumental arguments.We need to get away from saying democracy mattersbecause of the other things it brings.We need to get away from feeling, in the same way,human rights matters because of the other things it brings,or women&#39;s rights matters for the other things it brings.Why should we get away from those arguments?Because they&#39;re very dangerous. If we set about saying,for example, torture is wrong because it doesn&#39;t extractgood information, or we say, you need women&#39;s rightsbecause it stimulates economic growth by doubling the size of the work force,you leave yourself open to the position wherethe government of North Korea can turn around and say,&quot;Well actually, we&#39;re having a lot of success extractinggood information with our torture at the moment,&quot;or the government of Saudi Arabia to say, &quot;Well,our economic growth&#39;s okay, thank you very much,considerably better than yours,so maybe we don&#39;t need to go ahead with this program on women&#39;s rights.&quot;
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:民主的重要性并不在于它本身的“好处”也不是它可以带来的利益民主的重要性在于它体现了法律的正当性，有效性和繁荣发展民主并不能保证一个国家及其邻邦的安全它的重要性是内在的因为它反映了平等的理念自由的理念，以及人的尊严它体现了每个人都有平等的权利来进行投票参与决定谁来组成他们的政府
en:The point about democracy is not instrumental.It&#39;s not about the things that it brings.The point about democracy is not that it deliverslegitimate, effective, prosperous rule of law.It&#39;s not that it guarantees peace with itself or with its neighbors.The point about democracy is intrinsic.Democracy matters because it reflects an idea of equalityand an idea of liberty. It reflects an idea of dignity,the dignity of the individual, the idea that each individualshould have an equal vote, an equal say,in the formation of their government.
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:但是，如果我们真的想让民主再次复苏，我们需要公民和政客们的共同努力民主并不仅仅是政权的结构问题它是一种思想状态，也是一种行动而诚实则是这行动中的一部分我今天在这里的演讲结束之后，我要去参加一个叫做“你问我答”的电台节目，你们也许也发现了参加这类节目的政客们永远永远都不会说“我不知道”不管那是个什么样的问题你问他儿童税收抵免问他南极企鹅的未来问他中国重庆的发展是否对碳捕捉的可持续发展有所贡献我们都能给你提供答案但这也是我们现在所需要停止的不要再假装自己是无所不知的人政客们偶尔也需要学会说有些选民们所想要的东西有些我们曾向选民们承诺过的东西其实可能是我们做不到的或者我们觉得所不应该做的
en:But if we&#39;re really to make democracy vigorous again,if we&#39;re ready to revivify it, we need to get involvedin a new project of the citizens and the politicians.Democracy is not simply a question of structures.It is a state of mind. It is an activity.And part of that activity is honesty.After I speak to you today, I&#39;m going on a radio programcalled &quot;Any Questions,&quot; and the thing you will have noticedabout politicians on these kinds of radio programsis that they never, ever say that they don&#39;t know the answerto a question. It doesn&#39;t matter what it is.If you ask about child tax credits, the future of the penguinsin the south Antarctic, asked to hold forth on whether or notthe developments in Chongqing contributeto sustainable development in carbon capture,and we will have an answer for you.We need to stop that, to stop pretending to beomniscient beings.Politicians also need to learn, occasionally, to say thatcertain things that voters want, certain things that votershave been promised, may be thingsthat we cannot deliveror perhaps that we feel we should not deliver.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:我们应该做的第二件事是理解这个社会里的天才我们的社会从来没有过像现在这样高的教育水平从来没有像现在这样健康且充满活力人们从来没有像现在这样知道这么多，关心这么多需要这么多，这都是整个社会中智慧的集合大家看看现在我们所在的宴会大厅天花板上是繁复耀眼的壁画描绘着国王登基的情景在这里上演过各种各样的戏码英国国王在这里被砍头为什么我们从这样的大厅，这样的王座上走出去走进了现在的市政厅，因为我们开始越来越多地关注我们的人民的力量
en:And the second thing we should do is understandthe genius of our societies.Our societies have never been so educated, have neverbeen so energized, have never been so healthy,have never known so much, cared so much,or wanted to do so much, and it is a genius of the local.One of the reasons why we&#39;re moving awayfrom banqueting halls such as the one in which we stand,banqueting halls with extraordinary images on the ceilingof kings enthroned,the entire drama played out here on this space,where the King of England had his head lopped off,why we&#39;ve moved from spaces like this, thrones like that,towards the town hall, is we&#39;re moving more and moretowards the energies of our people, and we need to tap that.
时间：12:05
zh-cn:需要注意的是，这种改变对每个国家来说是不一样的就英国而言，这可以意味着向法国学习学习法国公社体系里直接选举市长的模式在阿富汗，这可以意味着不再将关注重心全放在大的总统选举和议会选举上而是从最基本的开始从当地选民直接选举省长市长开始一步步推行民主
en:That can mean different things in different countries.In Britain, it could mean looking to the French,learning from the French,getting directly elected mayors in placein a French commune system.In Afghanistan, it could have meant instead of concentratingon the big presidential and parliamentary elections,we should have done what was in the Afghan constitutionfrom the very beginning, which is to get direct local elections goingat a district level and elect people&#39;s provincial governors.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:但是想要这些举措真正生效诚实必须被放在第一位而这并不仅仅是政客的问题也是每个公民的问题要想政客们变得诚实，公众就应该给他们空间，允许他们变得诚实而在政客和公众之间起协调作用的媒体也应该允许政客们变得诚实只有每个公民都享有充分的知情权并积极地参与到当地民主构建中，民主才能够繁荣发展
en:But for any of these things to work,the honesty in language, the local democracy,it&#39;s not just a question of what politicians do.It&#39;s a question of what the citizens do.For politicians to be honest, the public needs to allow them to be honest,and the media, which mediates between the politiciansand the public, needs to allow those politicians to be honest.If local democracy is to flourish, it is about the activeand informed engagement of every citizen.
时间：13:07
zh-cn:换句话说，如果我们想要重塑民主想让它变得再次充满活力不仅公众需要学会怎样去相信他们的政客政客们也需要学会怎样去相信他们的民众非常感谢！（掌声）
en:In other words, if democracy is to be rebuilt,is to become again vigorous and vibrant,it is necessary not just for the publicto learn to trust their politicians,but for the politicians to learn to trust the public.Thank you very much indeed. (Applause)
