时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这是我第一次来到TED。通常，作为一个广告人，我在TED Evil（邪恶TED）演讲，这是TED的秘密姐妹组织—为所有费用买单。TED Evil每两年在缅甸举行一次。有一场非常精彩的演讲尤其令我印象深刻。金正日(Kim Jong II)谈论如何能让青少年再度吸烟。（笑）
en:This is my first time at TED. Normally, as an advertising man,I actually speak at TED Evil, which is TED&#39;s secret sisterthat pays all the bills.It&#39;s held every two years in Burma.And I particularly remember a really good speechby Kim Jong Il on how to get teens smoking again.(Laughter)
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:但实际上，在广告界工作多年后，我突然发现，我们在广告中创造的是，无形价值—也可以叫作感知价值，或者标识价值，主观价值，某种形式的无形价值—时常得到负面评价。设想一下，如果将来你想生活在物质相对缺乏的世界，基本上你有两个选择。你可以生活在相对贫穷的世界，一般人都不喜欢这个选择。或者，你可以生活在无形价值构成总体价值很大比重的世界，事实上，无形价值在很多方面能很好地替代有限的人力或资源用来创造产品。
en:But, actually, it&#39;s suddenly come to me after years working in the business,that what we create in advertising,which is intangible value — you might call it perceived value,you might call it badge value, subjective value,intangible value of some kind —gets rather a bad rap.If you think about it, if you want to live in a world in the futurewhere there are fewer material goods, you basically have two choices.You can either live in a world which is poorer,which people in general don&#39;t like.Or you can live in a world where actually intangible valueconstitutes a greater part of overall value,that actually intangible value, in many waysis a very, very fine substitutefor using up labor or limited resourcesin the creation of things.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:这里有个例子。这是一辆从伦敦开往巴黎的火车。15年前，工程师们遇到一个问题，“如何能改善伦敦至巴黎之旅”他们想出了一个非常好的工程解决方案，即花费60亿英镑在伦敦和蔚蓝海岸之间建造全新的轨道，使三个半小时的旅程减少40分钟。现在，大家可以叫我挑剔先生。我只是个广告人...但依我看，作为改善火车之旅的方法，这不免有些缺乏想象力如果仅仅是缩短行程的话。那么花费60亿建造铁轨的快乐机会成本是多少呢？
en:Here is one example. This is a train which goes from London to Paris.The question was given to a bunch of engineers,about 15 years ago, &quot;How do we make the journey to Paris better?&quot;And they came up with a very good engineering solution,which was to spend six billion poundsbuilding completely new tracksfrom London to the coast,and knocking about 40 minutes off a three-and-half-hour journey time.Now, call me Mister Picky. I&#39;m just an ad man ...... but it strikes me as a slightly unimaginative way of improving a train journeymerely to make it shorter.Now what is the hedonic opportunity coston spending six billion pounds on those railway tracks?
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:作为一个天真的广告人，我的建议是：实际上应该把所有世界顶级的男模，和女模请来，在旅途的全程走秀，免费发放波得路堡红葡萄酒直到旅程结束。（笑）（掌声）这样的话，还能省下三十亿英镑左右，而且人们反而还会要求火车开的慢点。（笑）
en:Here is my naive advertising man&#39;s suggestion.What you should in fact do is employ all of the world&#39;s top maleand female supermodels,pay them to walk the length of the train, handing out free Chateau Petrusfor the entire duration of the journey.(Laughter)(Applause)Now, you&#39;ll still have about three billion pounds left in change,and people will ask for the trains to be slowed down.(Laughter)
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:现在，我这个天真的广告人又要提一个问题了。刚才的例子说明，工程师、医生和科学家，都执迷于解决现实问题，而实际上，当人们在社会中达到了一定的财富水平，大多数问题其实是感知上的问题。所以，我要再问你们一个问题。安慰剂到底有什么不妥？我觉得这个主意太棒了。不仅研制成本很低，而且效果非常好，还无副作用，如果有的话，也只存在于想象之中，完全可以忽略它。（笑）
en:Now, here is another naive advertising man&#39;s question again.And this shows that engineers,medical people, scientific people,have an obsession with solving the problems of reality,when actually most problems, once you reach a basic level of wealthin society, most problems are actually problems of perception.So I&#39;ll ask you another question.What on earth is wrong with placebos?They seem fantastic to me. They cost very little to develop.They work extraordinarily well.They have no side effects,or if they do, they&#39;re imaginary, so you can safely ignore them.(Laughter)
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:所以我开始与人讨论这个问题。我还到泰勒·考恩(Tyler Cowen)名为边际革命的博客上留言。我不知道是否有人知道。实际上，有人建议把这一概念带到更深的层面，发展安慰教育。这一观点认为，教育的作用并不是通过教授知识而产生的。而是通过让人们产生其已接受良好教育的印象而产生的。这种印象给人们不切实际的强烈信心并使他们在今后的生活中非常成功。所以，女士们先生们，欢迎来到牛津大学。（笑）（掌声）
en:So I was discussing this. And I actually went to the Marginal Revolution blogby Tyler Cowen. I don&#39;t know if anybody knows it.Someone was actually suggesting that you can take this concept further,and actually produce placebo education.The point is that education doesn&#39;t actually work by teaching you things.It actually works by giving you the impressionthat you&#39;ve had a very good education, which gives you an insane senseof unwarranted self-confidence,which then makes you very, very successful in later life.So, welcome to Oxford, ladies and gentlemen.(Laughter)(Applause)
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:但实际上，安慰教育背后的观点很有趣。生活中有多少问题能通过改变感知来解决，而不是通过既乏味又辛苦的努力改变现实？历史上有个很好的例子。我听说有人把这件事被归功于其他几个国王，但我做了一些历史研究，应该发生在弗雷德里克大帝身上。普鲁士的弗雷德里克大帝一度非常希望德国人接受土豆，食用土豆。因为他认为，如果有小麦和土豆这两种碳水化合物的来源，可以减少面包价格的动荡。同时，也可以大大降低发生饥荒的风险，因为有两种作物可以依靠，而不是一种。
en:But, actually, the point of placebo education is interesting.How many problems of life can be solvedactually by tinkering with perception,rather than that tedious, hardworking and messy businessof actually trying to change reality?Here&#39;s a great example from history. I&#39;ve heard this attributed to several other kings,but doing a bit of historical research,it seems to be Fredrick the Great.Fredrick the Great of Prussia was very, very keenfor the Germans to adopt the potato and to eat it,because he realized that if you had two sources of carbohydrate,wheat and potatoes, you get less price volatility in bread.And you get a far lower risk of famine,because you actually had two crops to fall back on, not one.
时间： 3:43
zh-cn:唯一的问题是：土豆，如果大家想一想，看上去相当丑。而且，18世纪的普鲁士人吃非常非常少的蔬菜—很像现在的苏格兰人。（笑）于是，他最后采取了强制的措施。普鲁士的农民们说：“我们甚至没办法让狗吃这些恶心的东西。这些土豆令人作呕，而且毫无用处。”甚至有许许多多的人由于拒绝种植土豆而被处死。
en:The only problem is: potatoes, if you think about it, look pretty disgusting.And also, 18th century Prussians ate very, very few vegetables —rather like contemporary Scottish people.(Laughter)So, actually, he tried making it compulsory.The Prussian peasantry said,&quot;We can&#39;t even get the dogs to eat these damn things.They are absolutely disgusting and they&#39;re good for nothing.&quot;There are even records of people being executedfor refusing to grow potatoes.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:于是，他又想了另一个办法。他采取了营销的手段，宣布土豆是宫廷御用蔬菜。只有皇室家族成员才能享用。他在一片皇家土豆地中种植土豆，并派侍卫日夜加以看守，但却密令他们无需太过认真。（笑）18世纪的农民们懂得一个生活常识，那就是值得看守的东西，也值得偷。不久，德国就出现了规模宏大的地下土豆种植。他非常成功的重塑了土豆的品牌形象。这绝对是一个经典。
en:So he tried plan B.He tried the marketing solution, which is he declared the potatoas a royal vegetable, and none but the royal family could consume it.And he planted it in a royal potato patch,with guards who had instructionsto guard over it, night and day,but with secret instructions not to guard it very well.(Laughter)Now, 18th century peasants know that there is onepretty safe rule in life, which is if something is worth guarding,it&#39;s worth stealing.Before long, there was a massive undergroundpotato-growing operation in Germany.What he&#39;d effectively done is he&#39;d re-branded the potato.It was an absolute masterpiece.
时间： 4:40
zh-cn:我讲述了这个故事然后一位来自土耳其的先生过来找我说，“非常非常好的营销，Fredrick太伟大了。不过和Ataturk比起来还差早了。”Ataturk，和Nicolas Sarkozy（法国总统）很像。非常渴望抛弃土耳其社会戴面纱的习惯，使其具有现代气息。那么，没创意的人可能就会简单的禁止佩戴面纱。但是那会以强烈的负面反响而告终以及铺天盖地的抵制。Ataturk运用横向思维进行思考。他规定妓女必须佩戴面纱。（笑）（掌声）
en:I told this story and a gentleman from Turkey came up to me and said,&quot;Very, very good marketer, Fredrick the Great. But not a patch on Ataturk.&quot;Ataturk, rather like Nicolas Sarkozy,was very keen to discourage the wearing of a veil,in Turkey, to modernize it.Now, boring people would have just simply banned the veil.But that would have ended up with a lot of awful kickbackand a hell of a lot of resistance.Ataturk was a lateral thinker.He made it compulsory for prostitutes to wear the veil.(Laughter)(Applause)
时间： 5:11
zh-cn:我并不能完全证实这个的真实性。不过这并没关系。（关键是）社会环境问题解决了，顺便提一句，各位：所有被判刑的猥亵儿童者必须驾驶保时捷卡宴。（笑）Ataturk揭示的实际是两个基本事实。其中，实际上，第一个是，所有的价值都是相对价值。所有的价值都是感知价值。
en:I can&#39;t verify that fully, but it does not matter.There is your environmental problem solved, by the way, guys:All convicted child molestershave to drive a Porsche Cayenne.(Laughter)What Ataturk realized actually is two very fundamental things.Which is that, actually, first one,all value is actually relative.All value is perceived value.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:对于不会西班牙语的人，jugo de naranja—实际上就是西班牙语中“橘子汁”的意思。因为实际上那不是美元，而是比索在布宜诺斯艾利斯，非常聪明的街头售货商决定实践一下这种价格歧视用来占任何一个路过的美国佬的便宜。作为一个广告人，我不能不对此表示钦佩。
en:For those of you who don&#39;t speak Spanish, jugo de naranja — it&#39;s actually the Spanish for &quot;orange juice.&quot;Because actually it&#39;s not the dollar. It&#39;s actually the pesoin Buenos Aires. Very clever Buenos Aires street vendorsdecided to practice price discriminationto the detriment of any passing gringo tourists.As an advertising man, I have to admire that.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:不过这一切都说明了第一个道理，也就是所有的价值都是主观的。第二点是说服往往要比强制更有效。这些有趣的标志在你瞬间路过的时候显示出即时速度，有一些新的标志，右下方，实际上显示的是笑脸或者皱眉脸，实际上在情绪层面触发共鸣。这些标志的了不起的地方在于，它们仅仅花费了传统超速相机十分之一的成本。却阻止了两倍数量的事故的发生。所以，这种奇怪的事情困扰着传统的，古典主义经济学家，也就是一个奇怪的微笑着的小头像在改变个人行为上的作用比60英镑的罚款和给予3个点数的罚分还要有效。
en:But the first thing is that all value is subjective.Second point is that persuasion is often better than compulsion.These funny signs that flash your speed at you,some of the new ones, on the bottom right,now actually show a smiley face or a frowny face,to act as an emotional trigger.What&#39;s fascinating about these signs is they cost about 10 percentof the running cost of a conventional speed camera,but they prevent twice as many accidents.So, the bizarre thing, which is bafflingto conventional, classically trained economists,is that a weird little smiley facehas a better effect on changing your behaviorthan the threat of a £60 fine and three penalty points.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:一个很小的行为经济学的细节：在意大利，罚分制度恰恰相反。从12分起，逐渐减少。因为人们发现厌恶因素的减少在影响人们行为上具有更大的作用。在英国我们往往会想，“哇哦，又吃了3分！”但是在意大利却不是这样。
en:Tiny little behavioral economics detail:in Italy, penalty points go backwards.You start with 12 and they take them away.Because they found that loss aversionis a more powerful influence on people&#39;s behavior.In Britain we tend to feel, &quot;Whoa! Got another three!&quot;Not so in Italy.
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:还有一个讲述创造无形价值来代替物质价值的极好例子，就是，终究，环保运动会触及的问题：这个，同样，还是来自普鲁士，我想，大概1812或1813年左右。富裕的普鲁士人，为了在普法战争中取得优势，被鼓励捐出他们的全部珠宝。然后用以生铁铸造的珠宝的复制品代替。瞧这个：“Gold gab ich für Eisen，1813年。”有趣的事情是从这之后的50年，普鲁士社会最高等级的珠宝不是金制或钻石制。而是生铁制。因为事实上，不考虑实际的内在价值比如金珠宝。这件珠宝具有象征价值，标记价值。它象征着你的家庭在过去做出过很大的贡献。
en:Another fantastic case of creating intangible valueto replace actual or material value, which remember, is what,after all, the environmental movement needs to be about:This again is from Prussia, from, I think, about 1812, 1813.The wealthy Prussians, to help in the war against the French,were encouraged to give in all their jewelry.And it was replaced with replica jewelrymade of cast iron.Here&#39;s one: &quot;Gold gab ich für Eisen, 1813.&quot;The interesting thing is that for 50 years hence,the highest status jewelry you could wear in Prussiawasn&#39;t made of gold or diamonds.It was made of cast iron.Because actually, never mind the actual intrinsic valueof having gold jewelry. This actuallyhad symbolic value, badge value.It said that your family had made a great sacrifice in the past.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:所以，在现代社会等价的东西应该类似这种。（笑）不过，事实上，有一种商品，正如一种叫做Veblen商品的东西，它的价值取决于本身的昂贵和稀有—而它们是恰恰相反的一类东西其价值恰恰在于它们本身的普通性，大众化和简单性。
en:So, the modern equivalent would of course be this.(Laughter)But, actually, there is a thing, just as there are Veblen goods,where the value of the good depends on it being expensive and rare —there are opposite kind of thingswhere actually the value in them depends on them beingubiquitous, classless and minimalistic.
时间： 7:38
zh-cn:如果你想一想的话，震颤派宗教仪式是一种原始的环保运动。Adam Smith谈论到18世纪的美国当时抵制物质上的可视财富的运动如火如荼，几乎对新英格兰的经济发展造成了阻碍，因为即使是富裕的农民也不知道该把钱花在哪，除非招致邻居的鄙夷。创造一种有利于社会平等的舆论压力是完全可能的。
en:If you think about it, Shakerism was a proto-environmental movement.Adam Smith talks about 18th century America,where the prohibition against visible displays of wealth was so great,it was almost a block in the economy in New England,because even wealthy farmers could find nothing to spend their money onwithout incurring the displeasure of their neighbors.It&#39;s perfectly possible to create these social pressureswhich lead to more egalitarian societies.
时间： 8:00
zh-cn:同样有趣的是，如果你仔细观察高科技部件组成的产品或许你们会叫做信息价值，这类组件高度集成了无形价值，而不是内在价值：它们经常很好的诠释了平等主义。就服装而言，牛仔布或许是诠释象征价值（而不是物质价值）的最好的例子了。可口可乐。也许你们中的某些人是倾左派的，或许你并不喜欢可口可乐公司。不过Andy Warhol对于它的评价却十分耐人寻味。他说，“我之所以爱可口可乐是因为即使是美国总统喝的可乐也和街边流浪汉手中的可乐别无二样。”实际上如果你仔细想想的话，我们都把它当做理所当然了—但实际上是很了不起的成就，如此民主的一种产品。
en:What&#39;s also interesting, if you look at productsthat have a high componentof what you might call messaging value,a high component of intangible value, versus their intrinsic value:They are often quite egalitarian.In terms of dress, denim is perhaps the perfect example of somethingwhich replaces material value with symbolic value.Coca-Cola. A bunch of you may be a load of pinkos,and you may not like the Coca-Cola company,but it&#39;s worth remembering Andy Warhol&#39;s point about Coke.What Warhol said about Coke is, he said,&quot;What I really like about Coca-Cola is the president of the United Statescan&#39;t get a better Coke than the bum on the corner of the street.&quot;Now, that is, actually, when you think about it — we take it for granted —it&#39;s actually a remarkable achievement,to produce something that&#39;s that democratic.
时间： 8:40
zh-cn:那么，我们需要把自己的看法稍微转变一下。基本的看法是（产品的）实际价值包括制作的过程，包括劳动力。如工程设计。包括有限的原材料。现在我们要加上一种好像虚化的东西。好像是不真实的。当然许多的怀疑和不确定是有原因的。显然这个因素就是宣传作用。然而，我们现在拥有的是一个更加多样化的媒介环境在其中我们创造这种价值。这样就合理多了。
en:Now, we basically have to change our views slightly.There is a basic view that real value involves making things,involves labor. It involves engineering.It involves limited raw materials.And that what we add on top is kind of false. It&#39;s a fake version.And there is a reason for some suspicion and uncertainly about it.It patently veers toward propaganda.However, what we do have nowis a much more variegated media ecosystemin which to kind of create this kind of value, and it&#39;s much fairer.
时间： 9:09
zh-cn:当我长大了，我小时候的媒体环境差不多是这样的可以理解为食物。左边这个，是唯一的提供者。当时还有Rupert Murdoch，或者BBC。（笑）右边是依赖性很强的大众可怜的是，无论你提供什么，他都会心存感激。（笑）
en:When I grew up, this was basically the media environment of my childhoodas translated into food.You had a monopoly supplier. On the left,you have Rupert Murdoch, or the BBC.(Laughter)And on your right you have a dependent publicwhich is pathetically grateful for anything you give it.(Laughter)
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:现如今，用户都已经进化了。这个在数码世界里，实际上叫做“用户为中心的实体。”尽管叫做农业，在食物这个角度看。（笑）这个实际上叫做“糅合”，也就是你以其他人的生产结果为起点创造出新的东西。在食物的角度来看我们叫它烹饪。这个叫食物2.0版本，也就是以与其他人分享为目的而生产食物。这叫移动食物。英国人很擅长。把鱼和薯条夹在报纸里，Cornish Pastie，派，三明治。全是我们发明的。总体上来讲我们做东西并不好吃。意大利人这方面很棒，不过便携性就差了点，总的来说。（笑）
en:Nowadays, the user is actually involved.This is actually what&#39;s called, in the digital world, &quot;user-generated content.&quot;Although it&#39;s called agriculture in the world of food.(Laughter)This is actually called a mash-up,where you take content that someone else has producedand you do something new with it.In the world of food we call it cooking.This is food 2.0,which is food you produce for the purpose of sharing it with other people.This is mobile food. British are very good at that.Fish and chips in newspaper, the Cornish Pasty,the pie, the sandwich.We invented the whole lot of them.We&#39;re not very good at food in general. Italians do great food,but it&#39;s not very portable, generally.(Laughter)
时间：10:06
zh-cn:直到有一天我才知道这点。三明治伯爵并未发明三明治。实际上他发明的是烤面包。不过那时，如果叫烤面包伯爵就太荒唐了。（笑）
en:I only learned this the other day. The Earl of Sandwich didn&#39;t invent the sandwich.He actually invented the toasty. But then, the Earl of Toasty would be a ridiculous name.(Laughter)
时间：10:12
zh-cn:最后，还有内容关联式沟通。那么，我之所以要展示潘诺酒—这只是一个例子。每个国家都有与其背景关联的酒品。在法国就是潘诺酒。在这个国家境内品尝的话，美味无比。不过如果你带出去尝尝的话，简直糟透了。（笑）还有，比如说匈牙利的Unicum。希腊人实际上生产了一种叫做Retsina的酒，不过即使在希腊品尝也很难喝。（笑）
en:Finally, we have contextual communication.Now, the reason I show you Pernod — it&#39;s only one example.Every country has a contextual alcoholic drink. In France it&#39;s Pernod.It tastes great within the borders of that country,but absolute shite if you take it anywhere else.(Laughter)Unicum in Hungary, for example.The Greeks have actually managed to produce something called Retsina,which even tastes shite when you&#39;re in Greece.(Laughter)
时间：10:35
zh-cn:但是如此多的交流实际上已经关联化了这种强迫人们的能力，为了更好的说明—来自Stanford大学的，B.J.Fogg，认为手机实际上是—他发明了一个短语，叫做“说服性科技。”他认为手机，因为地点特有性，背景关联性，即时性和直接性，是最直接和最伟大的说服性科技产品的代表。
en:But so much communication now is contextualthat the capacity for actually nudging people,for giving them better information — B.J. Fogg,at the University of Stanford, makes the pointthat actually the mobile phone is —He&#39;s invented the phrase, &quot;persuasive technologies.&quot;He believes the mobile phone, by being location-specific,contextual, timely and immediate,is simply the greatest persuasive technology device ever invented.
时间：10:55
zh-cn:那么，如果我们拥有了所有的这些工具，我们仅仅需要问这样一个，Thaler和Sunstein曾经问过的问题，也就是如何更聪明的使用它们。我再举一个例子。如果在你家中的墙上有这样一个大大的，红色的按钮，每次你只要按它一下，就可以节省50美元，使你的津贴增加50美元，你节省下来的远远不止这么一些。原因是界面从根本上决定了行为。明白了吗？
en:Now, if we have all these tools at our disposal,we simply have to ask the question,and Thaler and Sunstein have, of how we can use these more intelligently.I&#39;ll give you one example.If you had a large red button of this kind, on the wall of your home,and every time you pressed it, it saved 50 dollars for you,put 50 dollars into your pension,you would save a lot more.The reason is that the interface fundamentally determinesthe behavior. Okay?
时间：11:18
zh-cn:那么，营销在鼓动即兴购买这一方面做的非常好。我们永远不会鼓动消费者即兴省钱。如果这样的话，更多的人会节省过多。这实际上就是一个改变影响人们做出决定的界面的问题。也就是改变决定的本质的问题。很显然，我并不想要人们这样做，因为作为一个广告人我更愿意把节省看做不必要的延缓的消费者主义。（笑）不过如果有人真的想那样做的话，实际上我们需要认真加以斟酌：改变人类行为的基本机会。
en:Now, marketing has done a very, very good job of creatingopportunities for impulse buying.Yet we&#39;ve never created the opportunity for impulse saving.If you did this, more people would save more.It&#39;s simply a question of changing the interfaceby which people make decisions,and the very nature of the decisions changes.Obviously, I don&#39;t want people to do this,because as an advertising man I tend to regard saving as justconsumerism needlessly postponed.(Laughter)But if anybody did want to do that,that&#39;s the kind of thing we need to be thinking about, actually:fundamental opportunities to change human behavior.
时间：11:51
zh-cn:现在我要举出一个加拿大的例子。有一个在Ogilvy加拿大实习的年轻人他的名字叫Hunter Somerville，在多伦多做即兴表演，同时兼职做广告的工作，他为一个叫Shreddies的商品做广告。这是一个关于创造无形附加价值的绝好例子，不需要对产品本身的分量做出一点改变。Shreddies是一种奇怪的，正方形的全麦麦片，只有在新西兰，加拿大和英国才可以见到。这是牛皮纸对于王权忠诚的独特嘉奖方式。（笑）在策划如何使Shreddies重新上市的过程中，他想到了这个主意。
en:Now, I&#39;ve got an example here from Canada.There was a young intern at Ogilvy Canadacalled Hunter Somerville,who was working in improv in Toronto,and got a part-time job in advertising,and was given the job of advertising Shreddies.Now this is the most perfect case of creatingintangible, added value,without changing the product in the slightest.Shreddies is a strange, square, whole-grain cereal,only available in New Zealand, Canada and Britain.It&#39;s Kraft&#39;s peculiar way of rewarding loyalty to the crown.(Laughter)In working out how you could re-launch Shreddies,he came up with this.
时间：12:38
zh-cn:视频：（嗡嗡响）男工：Shreddies应该是方形的啊。（笑）
en:Video: (Buzzer)Man: Shreddies is supposed to be square.(Laughter)
时间：12:48
zh-cn:女士：这些钻石形状的应该都没有泄露出去吧？（笑）
en:Woman: Have any of these diamond shapes gone out?(Laughter)
时间：12:53
zh-cn:画外音：新型钻石状的Shreddies麦片。钻石形状新品：同样百分百全麦，更加美味。（掌声）
en:Voiceover: New Diamond Shreddies cereal.Same 100 percent whole-grain wheat in a delicious diamond shape.(Applause)
时间：13:02
zh-cn:Rory Sutherland：我认为这是最完美的一个例子关于诠释创造无形价值。我们只需要光子，神经细胞，以及极具创造力的点子。我不得不说这是天才之作。但是，自然地，在做这样的事情前要做一点市场调研。
en:Rory Sutherland: I&#39;m not sure this isn&#39;t the most perfect exampleof intangible value creation. All it requires isphotons, neurons, and a great idea to create this thing.I would say it&#39;s a work of genius.But, naturally, you can&#39;t do this kind of thing without a little bit of market research.
时间：13:14
zh-cn:男士:那么，Shreddies事实上在生产一种新产品，对他们来说这是十分令人兴奋的事情。这是他们在介绍新的钻石Shreddies。（笑）现在我希望能够知道到你们看到它的第一印象，当你看到这个钻石Shreddies的盒子的时候。（笑）
en:Man: So, Shreddies is actually producing a new product,which is something very exciting for them.So they are introducing new Diamond Shreddies.(Laughter)So I just want to get your first impressions when you see that,when you see the Diamond Shreddies box there.(Laughter)
时间：13:34
zh-cn:女士：它们不是方形的吗？
en:Woman: Weren&#39;t they square?
时间：13:36
zh-cn:女士2：我有点搞不清了。女士3：我认为它们看起来就是方形的。
en:Woman #2: I&#39;m a little bit confused. Woman #3: They look like the squares to me.
时间：13:38
zh-cn:男士：它们—是的，全都写在外表里了。不过这有点像掷骰子中的6或者9.如果你倒过来看它就像9.但是6和9是不同的。
en:Man: They — Yeah, it&#39;s all in the appearance.But it&#39;s kind of like flipping a six or a nine. Like a six,if you flip it over it looks like a nine.But a six is very different from a nine.
时间：13:48
zh-cn:女士3：或者“M”和“W”。男士：“M”和“W”，没错。
en:Woman # 3: Or an &quot;M&quot; and a &quot;W&quot;. Man: An &quot;M&quot; and a &quot;W&quot;, exactly.
时间：13:50
zh-cn:男士2：[疑惑]看起来就好像转了一个角度。不过当你那样看的时候它看起来更有趣。
en:Man #2: [unclear]You just looked like you turned it on its end. But when you see it like thatit&#39;s more interesting looking.
时间：13:57
zh-cn:男士：两种都试试。先尝一下方形的这个。（笑）男士：你更喜欢哪个？男士2：第一个。
en:Man: Just try both of them.Take a square one there, first.(Laughter)Man: Which one did you prefer? Man #2: The first one.
时间：14:16
zh-cn:男士：第一个？（笑）
en:Man: The first one?(Laughter)
时间：14:20
zh-cn:Rory Sutherland：现在，很自然的，一场激烈的辩论。不出意料，加拿大人骨子里也是有保守思想的，他实际上并不喜欢这种改变。所以，最后的结果是，制造商达成了一个折中的方案，也就是组合包。（笑）（掌声）（大笑）
en:Rory Sutherland: Now, naturally, a debate raged.There were conservative elements in Canada, unsurprisingly,who actually resented this intrusion.So, eventually, the manufacturers actuallyarrived at a compromise, which was the combo pack.(Laughter)(Applause)(Laughter)
时间：14:50
zh-cn:如果你觉得这很有趣的话，请记住有一个叫做“美国酒经济协会”的组织，他们实地做了很多关于事物认知的深度的调查，发现除了百分之五或者百分之十那一部分最有见地的人以外，品质和产品体验之间没有关联就酒类来说，除非你告诉人们这个东西有多贵，在这种情况下他们倾向于更享受贵的东西。所以以后喝酒就别看价钱了。
en:If you think it&#39;s funny, bear in mind there is an organization calledthe American Institute of Wine Economics,which actually does extensive research into perception of things,and discovers that except for amongperhaps five or ten percent of the most knowledgeable people,there is no correlation between quality and enjoymentin wine,except when you tell the people how expensive it is,in which case they tend to enjoy the more expensive stuff more.So drink your wine blind in the future.
时间：15:15
zh-cn:不过这两者都非常有趣—但是我思考了一个很重要的哲学观点，就是，向前探索，我们需要更多这种的价值。我们需要更多的时间品味已经存在的事物，而少花一点时间去为难自己搞新的花样。
en:But this is both hysterically funny —but I think an important philosophical point,which is, going forward, we need more of this kind of value.We need to spend more time appreciating what already exists,and less time agonizing over what else we can do.
时间：15:27
zh-cn:差不多引用这两句作为结尾吧。一个是，“诗歌就是使新事物亲切近人并且使熟悉的事物衍生出新意。”这不失为一个对我们工作的好定义，去帮助人们欣赏不熟悉的东西，同时也对已经存在的东西更加珍惜，或者提升它们的价值。顺便说一下，有证据表明，像社交网络这种东西会对此有帮助。因为这有助于人们分享信息。它们将每天的琐碎活动赋予标记价值。所以事实上它减少了用于公开展示的花销，而且增加了类似于这种第三方的的乐趣，这些你可以从最小的，最简单的生活事物中获得的乐趣。这真是太神奇了。
en:Two quotations to more or less end with.One of them is, &quot;Poetry is when you make new thingsfamiliar and familiar things new.&quot;Which isn&#39;t a bad definition of what our job is,to help people appreciate what is unfamiliar, but alsoto gain a greater appreciation, and place a far higher value onthose things which are already existing.There is some evidence, by the way, that things like social networking help do that.Because they help people share news.They give badge value to everyday little trivial activities.So they actually reduce the need for actually spending great money on display,and increase the kind of third-partyenjoyment you can get from the smallest, simplest things in life. Which is magic.
时间：16:02
zh-cn:第二个是这场演讲中第二次对G.K.Chesterton的引用，也就是，“使我们灭亡的，是对一个奇迹的渴望，而不是对众多奇迹的渴望，”这个我认为对于科技业的有关人士，应该感触尤为深刻。最后一点：当你把价值附加于像健康，爱情，性和其他的这种事情时，同时学会去把物质价值附加在你之前所不重视的事物上不要仅仅是因为它们无形，或者太过渺小，你会发现你会比你所能想象的更加富有。非常非常感谢大家。（掌声）
en:The second one is the second G.K. Chesterton quote of this session,which is, &quot;We are perishing for want of wonder, not for want of wonders,&quot;which I think for anybody involved in technology, is perfectly true.And a final thing: When you place a value on things like health,love, sex and other things,and learn to place a material valueon what you&#39;ve previously discountedfor being merely intangible, a thing not seen,you realize you&#39;re much, much wealthier than you ever imagined.Thank you very much indeed.(Applause)
