时间： 0:12
zh-cn:今天的杰出领导者是什么样的？我们中的很多人会想到一个无所不能的超人，站在那里，指挥着并保护着他的追随者们。但那是旧时的印象，同样过时的还有领导力发展培养计划，这种发展计划通常是基于过去而不是眼前或者未来的环境。
en:What makes a great leader today?Many of us carry this imageof this all-knowing superherowho stands and commandsand protects his followers.But that&#39;s kind of an image from another time,and what&#39;s also outdatedare the leadership development programsthat are based on success modelsfor a world that was, not a world that isor that is coming.
时间： 0:45
zh-cn:我们做了一个研究，其中覆盖了4000个公司，我们问他们，贵公司领导力发展培养计划的效果怎样。58%的公司认为他们在重要的领导角色选取上有很大的人才欠缺。这意味着，尽管有着各种培训项目，远程网络课程，评估、 辅导等等，仍然有超过半数的公司未能培养出足够杰出的领导者。你可能会问自己，我的公司有在帮助我成长为一名21世纪的杰出领导者吗？很可能是：没有。
en:We conducted a study of 4,000 companies,and we asked them, let&#39;s see the effectivenessof your leadership development programs.Fifty-eight percent of the companiescited significant talent gapsfor critical leadership roles.That means that despitecorporate training programs,off-sites, assessments, coaching, all of these things,more than half the companieshad failed to grow enough great leaders.You may be asking yourself,is my company helping me to prepareto be a great 21st-century leader?The odds are, probably not.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:我花了 25 年的职业生涯时间来观察杰出领导者的特征。我曾经为财富500强企业工作，我曾经为200多名首席执行官提供咨询服务，我打造的领导力培养渠道比你可以想象的还要多。但几年前，我注意到在领导力培养方面一个令人不安的趋势。我注意到，尽管所有这些努力，类似的不同个体的故事却一再上演。一个故事是关于克里斯的，他是一名具有很大潜力的超级巨星领导者，他调职到了新的工作环境，失败了，造成了无法弥补的损失。还有茜德尼，这位首席执行官非常沮丧，因为她的公司被认为是最适合领导者施展才华的公司，但在50名最优秀的领导者中只有一名能够带领实施公司的关键商业行为。还有很多故事，比如，曾在一度兴旺的公司工作的资深领导团队惊讶地发现市场出现波动，不得不迫使该公司减小至原规模的一半或退出行业。
en:Now, I&#39;ve spent 25 years of my professional lifeobserving what makes great leaders.I&#39;ve worked inside Fortune 500 companies,I&#39;ve advised over 200 CEOs,and I&#39;ve cultivated more leadership pipelinesthan you can imagine.But a few years ago, I noticed a disturbing trendin leadership preparation.I noticed that, despite all the efforts,there were familiar stories that kept resurfacingabout individuals.One story was about Chris,a high-potential, superstar leaderwho moves to a new unit and fails,destroying unrecoverable value.And then there were stories like Sidney, the CEO,who was so frustratedbecause her company is citedas a best company for leaders,but only one of the top 50 leaders is equippedto lead their crucial initiatives.And then there were storieslike the senior leadership teamof a once-thriving businessthat&#39;s surprised by a market shift,finds itself having to force the companyto reduce its size in halfor go out of business.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:这些不断重复出现的故事让我开始思考两个问题。为什么尽管那么多的资金投入到领导力发展培养项目，领导力的差别还是这么大？杰出领导者做了什么明显不同于他人的事情，使他们成长为更杰出的人？我做了一件事，我因为思考这些问题越发感到无力同时因为这些故事而感到沮丧，我离职了，这样，我就可以专职研究。我花了一年时间游历世界的各个地方，试图了解高效和无效的领导力实践——在公司，在国家和在非盈利组织。所以我前往南非，在那里我有机会了解到纳尔逊 · 曼德拉是如何超越他的时代预测和引领政治、 社会和经济走向。我还约见了一些非营利组织的领导者，尽管他们的财政资源非常有限，却仍在努力改变世界，并经常促成和看似是敌人的合作。我在总统图书馆内度过了无数个小时，试图了解环境是如何塑造领导者的，他们的行动，以及这些行动造成的超越他们的任期的影响。后来，我返回全职工作，在这个岗位上，我与很棒的同事合作，他们也对这些问题感兴趣。
en:Now, these recurring storiescause me to ask two questions.Why are the leadership gaps wideningwhen there&#39;s so much more investmentin leadership development?And what are the great leaders doingdistinctly different to thrive and grow?One of the things that I did,I was so consumed by these questionsand also frustrated by those stories,that I left my jobso that I could study this full time,and I took a year to travelto different parts of the worldto learn about effective and ineffectiveleadership practices in companies,countries and nonprofit organizations.And so I did things like travel to South Africa,where I had an opportunity to understandhow Nelson Mandela was ahead of his timein anticipating and navigatinghis political, social and economic context.I also met a number of nonprofit leaderswho, despite very limited financial resources,were making a huge impact in the world,often bringing together seeming adversaries.And I spent countless hours in presidential librariestrying to understand how the environmenthad shaped the leaders,the moves that they made,and then the impact of those movesbeyond their tenure.And then, when I returned to work full time,in this role, I joined with wonderful colleagueswho were also interested in these questions.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:从所有这一切，我总结出快速成长的领导者有哪些特征以及他们做了哪些不同常规的事，我也同样总结出增长人类潜能的准备练习。我想分享其中一些给你们听。
en:Now, from all this, I distilledthe characteristics of leaders who are thrivingand what they do differently,and then I also distilledthe preparation practices that enable peopleto grow to their potential.I want to share some of those with you now.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:(&quot;21世纪，什么造就了杰出的领导者?&quot;)
en:(&quot;What makes a great leader in the 21st century?&quot;)
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:在更加全球化、数字化和透明的21世纪，信息流动和创新都十分快速，没有采用某种复杂的模型就好似什么大事也做不了，依托传统发展的方法会阻碍领导者的成长。事实上，传统的评估方式比如狭隘的360度调查或是过时的评价标准会给你错误的正向信息，引诱你认为自己比现实准备的更充分。21世纪的领导力可以用这三个问题来定义和证明。
en:In a 21st-century world, which is more global,digitally enabled and transparent,with faster speeds of information flow and innovation,and where nothing big gets donewithout some kind of a complex matrix,relying on traditional development practiceswill stunt your growth as a leader.In fact, traditional assessmentslike narrow 360 surveys oroutdated performance criteriawill give you false positives,lulling you into thinking that you are more preparedthan you really are.Leadership in the 21st century is definedand evidenced by three questions.
时间： 5:29
zh-cn:你打算在哪里实行下一步对于你的商业模式或你的生活的改变？这个问题的答案就在你的日历上。你的时间和谁一起度过？你们聊什么主题？你去哪里出差旅行？你在读什么书？然后你怎样从中提炼来了解潜在的不连续性，然后作出现在要做什么的决定并随时准备着。有一个领导力训练团队做了一个练习，他们将成员聚集在一起收集整理，这些趋势影响到我，这些趋势影响到另一个组员，然后他们互相分享，并做出决定，来改变战略或者实施新的举措。杰出领导者不会低着头。他们会看周围的角落，他们会塑造自己的未来，而不仅仅只是对它作出反应。
en:Where are you lookingto anticipate the next changeto your business model or your life?The answer to this question is on your calendar.Who are you spending time with? On what topics?Where are you traveling? What are you reading?And then how are you distilling thisinto understanding potential discontinuities,and then making a decision to do somethingright now so that you&#39;re prepared and ready?There&#39;s a leadership team that does a practicewhere they bring together each membercollecting, here are trends that impact me,here are trends that impact another team member,and they share these,and then make decisions,to course-correct a strategyor to anticipate a new move.Great leaders are not head-down.They see around corners,shaping their future, not just reacting to it.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:第二个问题是，如何权衡你的个人和职业利益相关的社会网络？我们经常听到的老友关系网络，这些网络在许多机构中仍然存在。但某种程度上而言，我们都有一个社交网络，它由我们熟悉喜欢的人组成。所以这个问题是关于你和与你大为不同的人发展关系的能力。这些差异可以是生理的、身体的、 功能的、 政治的、 文化的、 社会经济方面的。然而，摒除所有这些差异，他们与您交往并且足够信任你与你合作为实现一个共同目标而努力。杰出的领导者明白拥有多样化的网络是一种更多层次的识别思考以及解决方案，因为你认识那些和你有着不同思考方式的人。
en:The second question is,what is the diversity measureof your personal and professionalstakeholder network?You know, we hear often about good ol&#39; boy networksand they&#39;re certainly alive and well in many institutions.But to some extent, we all have a networkof people that we&#39;re comfortable with.So this question is about your capacityto develop relationships with peoplethat are very different than you.And those differences can be biological,physical, functional, political, cultural, socioeconomic.And yet, despite all these differences,they connect with youand they trust you enoughto cooperate with youin achieving a shared goal.Great leaders understandthat having a more diverse networkis a source of pattern identificationat greater levels and also of solutions,because you have people that are thinkingdifferently than you are.
时间： 7:29
zh-cn:第三个问题是： 你是否有勇气放弃一种过去使您成功的作法？有一种说法是： 随遇而安，取法中庸。但如果你遵循这一理念，更大的可能性会是，你作为领导者，继续遵循对你而言熟悉又方便舒适的作法。伟大的领导者勇于改变。他们不只是嘴上谈论冒险，他们会真的去冒险。有位领导者跟我分享了这一事实，最有影响力的发展会出现在这样的时候：你能够情绪稳定地接受别人告诉你——你的新想法很天真或很鲁莽或就是非常愚蠢。有趣的是，将加入你的网络的人不是你的社交网络中你通常认为会加入的人。而是那些和你有着不同想法并愿意加入你去实现一次勇敢的飞跃的人。这是一次飞跃，不是一个步子。不同于传统的领导力培养项目，回答这三个问题将确定你作为一个21世纪领导者的能力。
en:Third question: are you courageous enoughto abandon a practice that has made you successful in the past?There&#39;s an expression: Go along to get along.But if you follow this advice,chances are as a leader,you&#39;re going to keep doingwhat&#39;s familiar and comfortable.Great leaders dare to be different.They don&#39;t just talk about risk-taking,they actually do it.And one of the leaders shared with me the fact thatthe most impactful development comeswhen you are able to build the emotional staminato withstand people telling you that your new ideais naïve or reckless or just plain stupid.Now interestingly, the people who will join youare not your usual suspects in your network.They&#39;re often people that think differentlyand therefore are willing to join youin taking a courageous leap.And it&#39;s a leap, not a step.More than traditional leadership programs,answering these three questionswill determine your effectivenessas a 21st-century leader.
时间： 8:45
zh-cn:那是什么造就了21世纪的杰出领导者？我见过许多，他们与众不同。他们中有女士也有男士，他们正在准备着，不是为舒适的可预测的昨天而是为了今天的现实和明天所有未知的可能性。
en:So what makes a great leader in the 21st century?I&#39;ve met many, and they stand out.They are women and menwho are preparing themselvesnot for the comfortable predictability of yesterdaybut also for the realities of todayand all of those unknown possibilities of tomorrow.
时间： 9:08
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 9:10
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
