时间： 0:11
zh-cn:几年前，哈佛商学院选出了当年的最佳商业模型。他们选择了索马里海盗。也就是差不多在这个时候，我发现有544名海员被当作人质扣押在船上，就在索马里海岸不远处，目光可及之处。
en:A couple of years ago,Harvard Business School chosethe best business model of that year.It chose Somali piracy.Pretty much around the same time,I discovered that there were 544 seafarersbeing held hostage on ships,often anchored just off the Somali coastin plain sight.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:在我知道了这两件事以后，我想，海上运输业到底在发生什么？我又想，这样的事情可能在其它行业发生吗？我们可能看到544名飞行员在他们的喷气客机里面或跑道上被押为人质达数月甚至一年么？我们可能看到544名灰狗巴士（美国一个巴士公司）司机被押么？不会。
en:And I learned these two facts, and I thought,what&#39;s going on in shipping?And I thought, would that happenin any other industry?Would we see 544 airline pilotsheld captive in their jumbo jetson a runway for months, or a year?Would we see 544 Greyhound bus drivers?It wouldn&#39;t happen.
时间： 0:59
zh-cn:所以我开始觉得好奇。这时我还发现了另一个让我震惊的事情，之所以震惊，大概是因为我居然在42、43岁之前完全不知道。之所以震惊，大概是因为我居然在42、43岁之前完全不知道。这就是：我们依然非常依赖海运。可能普通人会以为海运是已经过时的行业，那是白鲸迪克和杰克·斯派洛的帆船发展而来的。那是白鲸迪克和杰克·斯派洛的帆船发展而来的。事实则不然。海运对我们的重要性完全没有降低。海运给我们带来了90%的全球交易物资。自1970年以来，海运的能力是原来的四倍。我们从没有像现在这样依赖海运。然而，就是这样一个庞大的行业——海上有十万艘工作船只，它却几乎完全被人们所忽视。
en:So I started to get intrigued.And I discovered another fact,which to me was more astonishingalmost for the fact that I hadn&#39;t known it beforeat the age of 42, 43.That is how fundamentally we still depend on shipping.Because perhaps the general publicthinks of shipping as an old-fashioned industry,something brought by sailboatwith Moby Dicks and Jack Sparrows.But shipping isn&#39;t that.Shipping is as crucial to us as it has ever been.Shipping brings us 90 percent of world trade.Shipping has quadrupled in size since 1970.We are more dependent on it now than ever.And yet, for such an enormous industry —there are a 100,000 working vessels on the sea —it&#39;s become pretty much invisible.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:也许在新加坡那样说听上去有些荒谬，因为这里海运到处可见，甚至你们还把一艘船安在了一个酒店楼顶（新加坡金海湾金沙酒店）。（笑声）但是世界其它地方，如果你问普通人关于海运及其承载的交易量的问题，你只会看到一张茫然的脸。你可以问路人是否听说过微软，我想他们会说“听过”，因为他们知道微软制造那些电脑上运行的软件并偶尔成功工作但是如果你问他们是否听过马士基，听到的答案可能就不同了，虽然马士基，很多海运公司中的一个，创造的收入和微软几乎持平。[602亿美元]
en:Now that sounds absurd in Singapore to say that,because here shipping is so presentthat you stuck a ship on top of a hotel.(Laughter)But elsewhere in the world,if you ask the general public what they knowabout shipping and how muchtrade is carried by sea,you will get essentially a blank face.You will ask someone on the streetif they&#39;ve heard of Microsoft.I should think they&#39;ll say yes,because they&#39;ll know that they make softwarethat goes on computers,and occasionally works.But if you ask them if they&#39;ve heard of Maersk,I doubt you&#39;d get the same response,even though Maersk,which is just one shipping company amongst many,has revenues pretty much on a par with Microsoft.[$60.2 billion]
时间： 2:51
zh-cn:为什么会是这样呢？几年前，英国海军本部的第一海军大臣——他被称为第一海军大臣，虽然陆军的最高领袖并不叫“陆军大臣”，他说，我们，他指的是西方世界的发达国家，患有海上失明症。我们看不到海，其实是一个行业领域、一个工作的地方。我们认为那只是我们飞行经过的地方，飞行地图上的那一片蓝。没什么可看的，继续行进。
en:Now why is this?A few years ago,the first sea lord of the British admiralty —he is called the first sea lord,although the chief of the army is not called a land lord —he said that we, and he meantin the industrialized nations in the West,that we suffer from sea blindness.We are blind to the seaas a place of industry or of work.It&#39;s just something we fly over,a patch of blue on an airline map.Nothing to see, move along.
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:所以我想睁大我的双眼，克服自己的海上失明症，于是我跑向了海。几年前，我登上了马士基肯德尔，一艘中等大小的集装箱货运船，上面有近7000个箱子，我从英国南海岸的费利克斯托港口出发，我从英国南海岸的费利克斯托港口出发，五个星期以后，到达了我现在在的地方，新加坡，五个星期以后，到达了我现在在的地方，新加坡，不过没有像我现在这么严重的时差。我受到了很大的启示。我们穿越了五个海，两个大洋，九个港口，我学到了很多关于海运的东西。
en:So I wanted to open my own eyesto my own sea blindness,so I ran away to sea.A couple of years ago, I took a passageon the Maersk Kendal,a mid-sized container shipcarrying nearly 7,000 boxes,and I departed from Felixstowe,on the south coast of England,and I ended up right here in Singaporefive weeks later,considerably less jet-lagged than I am right now.And it was a revelation.We traveled through five seas,two oceans, nine ports,and I learned a lot about shipping.
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:当我登上肯德尔时，第一件让我惊讶的事情是：当我登上肯德尔时，第一件让我惊讶的事情是：人都在哪里？我的海军朋友告诉过我，通常一次会有1000个海员出行，可是在肯德尔上，只有21个船员。这是因为海运效率非常高。集装箱的使用大大提高了其效率。现在的船只装有自动化系统。他们只需要很少的船员就可以操作。但是这也意味着，用我曾经碰到的一个港口的牧师的话来说，集装箱货运船上的一个普通的海员通常都非常疲惫，甚至精疲力尽，因为现代海运的节奏牺牲了海运行业称之为”人性要素”的东西，牺牲了海运行业称之为”人性要素”的东西，他们似乎没有认识到“人性要素”这个奇怪的字眼听上去其实有点不人性。所以大部分在集装箱货运船上工作的海员通常一次在一个港口待的时间都不超过两个小时。他们没有时间放松。他们常常在海上一待就是好几个月，而他们在船上的时候，他们也没有一个五岁的孩子认为是理所当然的东西——因特网。他们也没有一个五岁的孩子认为是理所当然的东西——因特网。
en:And one of the first things that surprised mewhen I got on board Kendalwas, where are all the people?I have friends in the Navy who tell methey sail with 1,000 sailors at a time,but on Kendal there were only 21 crew.Now that&#39;s because shipping is very efficient.Containerization has made it very efficient.Ships have automation now.They can operate with small crews.But it also means that, in the wordsof a port chaplain I once met,the average seafarer you&#39;re going to findon a container ship is either tired or exhausted,because the pace of modern shippingis quite punishing for what the shipping callsits human element,a strange phrase which they don&#39;t seem to realizesounds a little bit inhuman.So most seafarers now working on container shipsoften have less than two hours in port at a time.They don&#39;t have time to relax.They&#39;re at sea for months at a time,and even when they&#39;re on board,they don&#39;t have access to whata five-year-old would take for granted, the Internet.
时间： 5:15
zh-cn:我登上肯德尔后，第二件让我惊讶的事情是：坐我旁边的人，不是女王，我也不知道他们为什么把我放在她的画像下面，而是在那个官员餐厅的餐桌边，坐在我旁边的是一个缅甸人，坐在我对面的是一个罗马尼亚人，一个摩尔多瓦人，一个印度人。隔壁的桌子是一个中国人，在船员的房间，则全是菲律宾人。这就是一艘普通的工作船只。
en:And another thing that surprised mewhen I got on board Kendalwas who I was sitting next to —Not the queen; I can&#39;t imagine whythey put me underneath her portrait —But around that dining table in the officer&#39;s saloon,I was sitting next to a Burmese guy,I was opposite a Romanian, a Moldavian, an Indian.On the next table was a Chinese guy,and in the crew room, it was entirely Filipinos.So that was a normal working ship.
时间： 5:42
zh-cn:怎么会是这样？因为在过去的60年里，海运业的最大的变化，因为在过去的60年里，海运业的最大的变化，当普通大众不再关注海运业的时候，就是所谓的“开放登记”，或“方便旗”。现在船只可以悬挂任何国家的国旗，只要他们给予登记。你可以从一个内陆国家获得一面国旗，比如玻利维亚、蒙古，或者北朝鲜，虽然这不是很流行。（笑声）
en:Now how is that possible?Because the biggest dramatic changein shipping over the last 60 years,when most of the general public stopped noticing it,was something called an open registry,or a flag of convenience.Ships can now fly the flag of any nationthat provides a flag registry.You can get a flag from the landlocked nationof Bolivia, or Mongolia,or North Korea, though that&#39;s not very popular.(Laughter)
时间： 6:10
zh-cn:所以我们有这些来自多个国家的、全球的、移动的船员。这让我非常惊讶。当我们到达了海盗水域，穿过曼德海峡，进入印度洋的时候，船只发生了变化。这让人很震惊，因为突然我意识到，船长也这么跟我说，我选择坐集装箱货运船穿过海盗水域简直太疯狂了。我选择坐集装箱货运船穿过海盗水域简直太疯狂了。我们被禁止到甲板上去。他们密切监视海盗的出现。而那个时候，正有544名海员被押为人质，有的被押了数年，因为海运本身以及“方便旗”的关系。不是所有的人，但是其中一些，因为碰上了无良的肆无忌惮的船主，很容易被隐藏起来，借以“方便旗”的匿名性。
en:So we have these very multinational,global, mobile crews on ships.And that was a surprise to me.And when we got to pirate waters,down the Bab-el-Mandeb straitand into the Indian Ocean,the ship changed.And that was also shocking, because suddenly,I realized, as the captain said to me,that I had been crazy to choose to gothrough pirate waters on a container ship.We were no longer allowed on deck.There were double pirate watches.And at that time, there were those 544 seafarers being held hostage,and some of them were held hostage for yearsbecause of the nature of shippingand the flag of convenience.Not all of them, but some of them were,because for the minorityof unscrupulous ship owners,it can be easy to hide behindthe anonymity offered by some flags of convenience.
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:我们的“海上失明症”还隐藏了什么？如果你跟着船只出海，或者坐游艇，抬头看烟囱，你会看到黑烟。那是因为海运的利润非常小，而他们需要便宜的燃料，那是因为海运的利润非常小，而他们需要便宜的燃料，所以他们用一种船用燃料，一位油轮行业的人告诉我，那是炼油厂的糟粕，跟沥青几乎相差无几了。而海运已经是最环保的运输方式了。就每英里每吨的碳排放而言，它是飞机的一千分之一，货车的十分之一。但这仍然不是好事，因为还是有很多排放。海运的碳排放大概是3%到4%，跟飞机差不多。如果你把海运的碳排放放在各个国家的碳排放的列表上，它会大概排在第六位，靠近德国。据估计，2009年15艘最大的船只排放的颗粒、烟尘和有毒气体，和全世界的机动车加起来差不多。但是好消息是人们正在讨论可持续的海运。一些有意思的初步行动正在展开。那为什么要那么久呢？什么时候我们才会开始讨论和思考海运里程数，就像飞行里程数一样？
en:What else does our sea blindness mask?Well, if you go out to sea on a shipor on a cruise ship, and look up to the funnel,you&#39;ll see very black smoke.And that&#39;s because shippinghas very tight margins,and they want cheap fuel,so they use something called bunker fuel,which was described to meby someone in the tanker industryas the dregs of the refinery,or just one step up from asphalt.And shipping is the greenest method of transport.In terms of carbon emissions per ton per mile,it emits about a thousandth of aviationand about a tenth of trucking.But it&#39;s not benign, because there&#39;s so much of it.So shipping emissions areabout three to four percent,almost the same as aviation&#39;s.And if you put shipping emissionson a list of the countries&#39; carbon emissions,it would come in about sixth,somewhere near Germany.It was calculated in 2009 that the 15 largest shipspollute in terms of particles and sootand noxious gasesas much as all the cars in the world.And the good news is thatpeople are now talking about sustainable shipping.There are interesting initiatives going on.But why has it taken so long?When are we going to start talking and thinkingabout shipping miles as well as air miles?
时间： 8:25
zh-cn:我还去了科德角看北大西洋露脊鲸的困境，因为这是我的海上经历带给我的最震撼的让我思考的事情。因为这是我的海上经历带给我的最震撼的让我思考的事情。因为这是我的海上经历带给我的最震撼的让我思考的事情。我们知道人类对海洋的影响，就捕鱼和过度捕捞而言，但是我们并不知道在水下到底发生了什么。而事实是，海运在其中起了一定的角色，因为海运带来的噪音破坏了很多海洋生物的声音栖息地。光线无法穿到水下面，所以诸如鲸鱼和海豚之类的海洋生物，甚至800个鱼的物种都靠声音交流。而北大西洋露脊鲸的声音可以传播上百英里。座头鲸的声音可以传播整个海洋。座头鲸的声音可以传播整个海洋。但是一艘超级油轮的声音也可以穿越整个海洋，而因为螺旋桨发出的噪音有的时候跟鲸鱼发出的声音的频率是一样的，可能会破坏鲸鱼的声音栖息地，而鲸鱼需要这些声音来繁衍、觅食和寻找配偶。北大西洋露脊鲸的声音栖息地已经减少了近90%。然而还没有法律来约束声音污染。
en:I also traveled to Cape Cod to lookat the plight of the North Atlantic right whale,because this to me was oneof the most surprising thingsabout my time at sea,and what it made me think about.We know about man&#39;s impact on the oceanin terms of fishing and overfishing,but we don&#39;t really know much aboutwhat&#39;s happening underneath the water.And in fact, shipping has a role to play here,because shipping noise has contributedto damaging the acoustichabitats of ocean creatures.Light doesn&#39;t penetrate beneaththe surface of the water,so ocean creatures like whales and dolphinsand even 800 species of fishcommunicate by sound.And a North Atlantic right whalecan transmit across hundreds of miles.A humpback can transmit a soundacross a whole ocean.But a supertanker can also be heardcoming across a whole ocean,and because the noise thatpropellers make underwateris sometimes at the same frequency that whales use,then it can damage their acoustic habitat,and they need this for breeding,for finding feeding grounds,for finding mates.And the acoustic habitat of theNorth Atlantic right whalehas been reduced by up to 90 percent.But there are no laws governing acoustic pollution yet.
时间： 9:46
zh-cn:当我到达新加坡的时候，我必须对此表示道歉，我不想下船。我爱极了在肯德尔上的日子。船员对我非常好，我有一个爱说、好玩的船长，我很愿意再在船上待上五个星期，虽然船长觉得我这个想法很疯狂。虽然船长觉得我这个想法很疯狂。但是我没有一次性在船上待上9个月，像菲律宾的海员那样，当我让他们跟我描述他们的工作的时候，他们称之为：乡思美元。他们的工资待遇不错，但是他们过得仍然是一种孤立的、艰难的生活，在一个危险的、困难不断的环境里面。
en:And when I arrived in Singapore,and I apologize for this, but I didn&#39;t want to get off my ship.I&#39;d really loved being on board Kendal.I&#39;d been well treated by the crew,I&#39;d had a garrulous and entertaining captain,and I would happily have signed upfor another five weeks,something that the captain also saidI was crazy to think about.But I wasn&#39;t there for nine months at a timelike the Filipino seafarers,who, when I asked them to describe their job to me,called it &quot;dollar for homesickness.&quot;They had good salaries,but theirs is still an isolating and difficult lifein a dangerous and often difficult element.
时间：10:28
zh-cn:说到这里，我有些矛盾，我想对这些海员致敬，因为他们给我们带来了90%的东西却得到很少的感激和认可。我想对那10万艘海上的船只致敬，我想对那10万艘海上的船只致敬，它们每天不停工作，进进出出，满足我们的所需。但是我也希望看到海运和我们这些对海运知之甚少的大众，有更多的关注，有更多的透明度，有90%的透明度。因为我觉得我们都可以从非常简单的事情中获益，因为我觉得我们都可以从非常简单的事情中获益，就是学会看海。
en:But when I get to this part, I&#39;m in two minds,because I want to salute those seafarerswho bring us 90 percent of everythingand get very little thanks or recognition for it.I want to salute the 100,000 shipsthat are at seathat are doing that work, coming in and outevery day, bringing us what we need.But I also want to see shipping,and us, the general public,who know so little about it,to have a bit more scrutiny,to be a bit more transparent,to have 90 percent transparency.Because I think we could all benefitfrom doing something very simple,which is learning to see the sea.
时间：11:10
zh-cn:谢谢！
en:Thank you.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
