时间： 0:12
zh-cn:罗伊·古尔德：不到一年以后，世界将要庆祝国际天文年，纪念伽利略首次使用望远镜进行天文观测四百周年。纪念伽利略首次使用望远镜进行天文观测四百周年。几个月以后，世界也将庆祝微软研究院发布的一项发明，几个月以后，世界也将庆祝微软研究院发布的一项发明，就像伽利略四个世纪以前的创举一样，我认为这项发明也将对我们观测宇宙产生深远影响。就像伽利略四个世纪以前的创举一样，我认为这项发明也将对我们观测宇宙产生深远影响。这就是“万维天文望远镜”(WorldWide Telescope)非常感谢TED和微软给我这个机会向大家介绍。同时我也希望您，到楼下的TED实验室近距离感受一下。同时我也希望您，到楼下的TED实验室近距离感受一下。
en:Roy Gould: Less than a year from now,the world is going to celebrate the International Year of Astronomy,which marks the 400th anniversaryof Galileo&#39;s first glimpse of the night sky through a telescope.In a few months, the world is also going to celebratethe launch of a new invention from Microsoft Research,which I think is going to have as profound an impacton the way we view the universe as Galileo did four centuries ago.It&#39;s called the WorldWide Telescope,and I want to thank TED and Microsoft for allowing me to bring it to your attention.And I want to urge you, when you get a chance,to give it a closer look at the TED Lab downstairs.
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:“万维天文望远镜”汇集了来自地面和太空中的全球顶级望远镜的优质图片，“万维天文望远镜”汇集了来自地面和太空中的全球顶级望远镜的优质图片，这些图片无缝的拼合在一起，创造出一幅壮观的全面的宇宙风景画。这些图片无缝的拼合在一起，创造出一幅壮观的宇宙风景画。这将会改变天文学的研究方式，也将改变教授天文学的方式而且，最重要的，这将改变我们在这个宇宙中看待自己的方式。
en:The WorldWide Telescope takes the best imagesfrom the world&#39;s greatest telescopes on Earth and in space,and has woven them seamlesslyto produce a holistic view of the universe.It&#39;s going to change the way we do astronomy,it&#39;s going to change the way we teach astronomyand I think most importantlyit&#39;s going to change the way we see ourselves in the universe.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:如果我们祖父那个时代就有TED集会，可能不会引起这样大的关注。比如，在1920年代，禁酒令还有效；妇女还没有投票权。如果您在夏夜中仰望银河，您就以为看到了整个宇宙。实际上，当时的哈佛天文台的负责人就此展开过大辩论他认为银河系就是整个宇宙。
en:If we were having this TED meeting in our grandparents&#39; day,that might not be so big a claim.In 1920, for example, you weren&#39;t allowed to drink;if you were a woman, you weren&#39;t allowed to vote;and if you looked up at the stars and the Milky Way on a summer night,what you saw was thought to be the entire universe.In fact, the head of Harvard&#39;s observatory back thengave a great debate in which he arguedthat the Milky Way Galaxy was the entire universe.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:哈佛无疑是大错特错。现在我们知道河外星系远远超出了银河系的范围。我们能够一直看到可以观测到的宇宙边缘，能够回望时间长河，几乎追溯到宇宙大爆炸的瞬间。我们可以跨越全光谱，揭示以前不可观测到的世界。我们可以观看这些壮观的星星的摇篮，在那里大自然用合适的数量和合适的大小创造着孕育生命的星星。在那里大自然用合适的数量和合适的大小创造着孕育生命的星星。我们观测外星世界，我们观测外星类太阳系现在找到300个，还在增加。它们不像我们的太阳系。我们观测在银河系中心的黑洞，在银河系中以及在宇宙的其他地方，在黑洞里时间看起来是凝固静止的。到目前为止，我们对宇宙的认识仍是不连续的，片断性的，而大自然要告诉我们的许多奇妙的故事都在这些片断中失真了。现在发生变化了。
en:Harvard was wrong, big time. (Laughter)Of course, we know today that galaxies extend far beyond our own galaxy.We can see all the way out to the edge of the observable universe,all the way back in time,almost to the moment of the Big Bang itself.We can see across the entire spectrum of light,revealing worlds that had previously been invisible.We see these magnificent star nurseries,where nature has somehow arranged for just the right numbersand just the right sizes of stars to be born for life to arise.We see alien worlds, we see alien solar systems —300 now, and still counting —and they&#39;re not like us.We see black holes at the heart of our galaxy,in the Milky Way, and elsewhere in the universe,where time itself seems to stand still.But until now, our view of the universe has been disconnected and fragmented,and I think that many of the marvelous stories that nature has to tell ushave fallen through the cracks. And that&#39;s changing.
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:我简要列举三个原因为什么我和我的天文学方面的和教育方面的同事们都一致认为“万维天文望远镜”令人激动,为什么我们认为它就是一场变革。第一，它可以让您体验整个宇宙。“万维天文望远镜”就像魔毯可以随心所欲的带我们飞跃整个宇宙。第二，在浏览宇宙的旅途中可以让天文学家作为您的向导。我说的不是仅仅是一些告诉你所见是什么的专家们，而是那些对宇宙各种各样的犄角旮旯都充满激情的人们，那些分享他们热情的人们让宇宙成为好客之地。第三，你可以自己设计旅程：你可以与朋友分享，也可以与朋友一起设计。这一点是最让人兴奋的，因为从心底里，我们都是爱讲故事的人。在讲述故事中，我们每一个人都以自己的方式认识宇宙。我们将有一个个性化的宇宙。拭目以待将来故事家的涌现。
en:I want to just briefly mention three reasonswhy my colleagues and I, in astronomy and in education,are so excited about the WorldWide Telescopeand why we think it&#39;s truly transformative.First, it enables you to experience the universe:the WorldWide Telescope, for me, is a kind of magic carpetthat lets you navigate through the universe where you want to go.Second: you can tour the universe with astronomers as your guides.And I&#39;m not talking here about just experts who are telling you what you&#39;re seeing,but really people who are passionate about the various nooks and crannies of the universe,who can share their enthusiasmand can make the universe a welcoming place.And third, you can create your own tours —you can share them with friends, you can create them with friends —and that&#39;s the part that I think I&#39;m most excited aboutbecause I think that at heart, we are all storytellers.And in telling stories,each of us is going to understand the universe in our own way.We&#39;re going to have a personal universe.I think we&#39;re going to see a community of storytellers evolve and emerge.
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:在我介绍“万维天文望远镜”负责人之前，我想留给您一个简单的思考。当我问别人，“夜空给你什么样的感受？”他们通常说，“渺小，我感到渺小而无意义。”好，我们凝视宇宙。感谢“万维天文望远镜”的创造者，现在我们可以与宇宙对话了。“万维天文望远镜”会让你明白人类可能很渺小，但人生很精彩，很有意义。谢谢。（掌声）
en:Before I introduce the person responsible for the WorldWide Telescope,I just want to leave you with this brief thought:when I ask people, &quot;How does the night sky make you feel?&quot;they often say, &quot;Oh, tiny. I feel tiny and insignificant.&quot;Well, our gaze fills the universe.And thanks to the creators of the WorldWide Telescope,we can now start to have a dialogue with the universe.I think the WorldWide Telescope will convince youthat we may be tiny, but we are truly, wonderfully significant.Thank you.(Applause)
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:我十分荣幸的介绍来自微软的黄金华（Curtis Wong）。我十分荣幸的介绍来自微软的黄金华（Curtis Wong）。
en:I can&#39;t tell you what a privilege it isto introduce Curtis Wong from Microsoft. (Applause)
时间： 5:07
zh-cn:黄金华：谢谢，罗伊。如您所见这是一个精彩的演讲，但是这只是众多旅程中的一个。而且，事实上这是之前就设计好的一个旅程。所有的旅程都是完全交互式的，如果你想到某地你可以观看旅程，也可以随时随地停留，收集其他信息。关于您要前往的目的地，有许多网络和信息源可供查看。关于您要前往的目的地，有许多网络和信息源可供查看。你可以方法放大，可以缩小所有的资源都在这里，为你所用。
en:Curtis Wong: Thank you, Roy.So, what you&#39;re seeing here is a wonderful presentation,but it&#39;s one of the tours.And actually this tour is one that was created earlier.And the tours are all totally interactive,so that if I were to go somewhere ...you may be watching a tour and you can pause anywhere along the way,pull up other information —there are lots of Web and information sourcesabout places you might want to go —you can zoom in, you can pull back out.The whole resources are there available for you.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:微软的“万维天文望远镜”项目是献给Jim Gray的，他是我们的同事，他做了大量工作是他让这个项目变成现实。这是我们小组充满爱心的劳动成果，我们希望这可以启迪儿童探索和学习宇宙。面向各年龄段的孩子，比如我们这样的。
en:So, Microsoft — this is a project that — WorldWide Telescope is dedicated to Jim Gray,who&#39;s our colleague, and a lot of his work that he didis really what makes this project possible.It&#39;s a labor of love for us and our small team,and we really hope it will inspire kids to explore and learn about the universe.So basically, kids of all ages, like us.
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:“万维天文望远镜”今年春天发布。免费下载。谢谢，Craig Mundie（微软公司：首席研究和战略官）可以到Worldwidetelescope.org下载，可以到Worldwidetelescope.org下载，今天您看到的其实还不到软件里的1%，在TED实验室，有一个叫Benjamin的六岁小孩设计的旅程一定会让你大吃一惊。我们在那里等您。谢谢。（掌声）
en:And so WorldWide Telescope will be available this spring.It&#39;ll be a free download — thank you, Craig Mundie —and it&#39;ll be available at the website WorldWideTelescope.org,which is something new.And so, what you&#39;ve seen todayis less than a fraction of one percent of what is in here,and in the TED Lab, we have a tourthat was created by a six-year-old named Benjaminthat will knock your socks off. (Laughter)So we&#39;ll see you there. Thank you.(Applause)
