时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我将要谈论的是人类为他们自己创造的空间。但是，首先我想告诉你我为什么来到这里。我来这里有两个原因。这是我的两个儿子，福特和韦恩。当福特大概三岁的时候，我和他共用一个非常小的房间，一个非常小的空间。我的办公室占一个卧室房间的一半，他的占另一半。可以想见，如果你是一位作家，临近截稿日那些天这里就会相当拥挤。
en:So, I am indeed going to talk aboutthe spaces men create for themselves,but first I want to tell you why I&#39;m here.I&#39;m here for two reasons. These two guysare my two sons Ford and Wren.When Ford was about three years old,we shared a very small room together,in a very small space.My office was on one half of the bedroom,and his bedroom was on the other half.And you can imagine, if you&#39;re a writer,that things would get really crowded around deadlines.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:所以，当韦恩要出生的时候，我意识到我必须要给我自己另找个地方。因为房子里没有更多的空间了。所以，我只能考虑我家后院。我以前没有任何建筑经验，我用了大约3000美金和一些环保材料，建成了这个地方。这里有我需要的所有东西。很安静。有了足够的空间，我自己能做主了，这很重要。
en:So when Wren was on the way,I realized I needed to find a space of my own.There was no more space in the house. So I went out to the backyard,and without any previous building experience,and about 3,000 dollars and somerecycled materials, I built this space.It had everything I needed. It was quiet.There was enough space. And I had control, which was very important.
时间： 0:57
zh-cn:当我建造这个空间的时候，我对自己说“我肯定不是那唯一一个为自己建造一个空间的人。“所以，我做了些调查。我发现早有先例。海明威就有他自己的写作空间。猫王艾维斯有两三个人造空间，很独特，因为他和妻子，母亲一起住在Graceland（貓王府邸）。在大众流行文化里，超人有他自己的总部。当然，蝙蝠侠也有自己的地方。
en:As I was building this space, I thoughtto myself, &quot;Surely I&#39;m not the only guyto have to have carved out a space for his own.&quot;So I did some research.And I found that there was an historic precedence.Hemingway had his writing space.Elvis had two or three manspaces,which is pretty unique because he lived with both his wife and his mother in Graceland.In the popular culture, Superman had the Fortress of Solitude,and there was, of course, the Batcave.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:所以，我认为我得出去走走看看人们现在为自己都建造了些什么。这是我发现的第一个空间。在田纳西州的奥斯汀。那里也是我的故乡。从外面看起来它象一个非常典型的车库，很不错的车库。但里面可不是。这个，在我看来，是个非常经典的空间。这里有霓虹灯音乐会的海报，吧台，当然，还有个美腿形状的台灯，这很重要。
en:So I realized then that I wanted to go out on a journeyand see what guys were creating for themselves now.Here is one of the first spaces I found. It is in Austin, Texas,which is where I&#39;m from.On the outside it looks like a very typical garage, a nice garage.But on the inside, it&#39;s anything but.And this, to me, is a pretty classic manspace.It has neon concert posters, a barand, of course, the leg lamp,which is very important.
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:接着我发现空间不仅仅只局限在内部。这个人在他的后院建了一个保龄球道，就在园林木，人工草皮的外面。他还在垃圾房上立了比分板。
en:I soon realized that manspaces didn&#39;t have to be only inside.This guy built a bowling alley in his backyard,out of landscaping timbers, astroturf.And he found the scoreboard in the trash.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:这是另一个户外空间，稍微有点复杂。这个1923年的木拖船完全是用道格拉斯冷杉建的。这全是他的主人亲手建造的。这里大概有1000平方英尺的内部活动空间。
en:Here&#39;s another outdoor space, a little bit more sophisticated.This a 1923 wooden tugboat,made completely out of Douglas fir.The guy did it all himself.And there is about 1,000 square feet of hanging-out space inside.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:所以，在我最早的调查中我意识到我那时找的不是我期待要找的东西，老实说，我找到了很多啤酒罐堆成的金子塔塞得满满当当的沙发和平板电视机。当然还有一些活动区域。但是有些是为了工作，有些是为了娱乐，有些是为了人们收集物品。最重要的是，我很惊讶于我找到的那些东西。
en:So, pretty early on in my investigationsI realized what I was finding was not what I expected to find,which was, quite frankly, a lot of beer can pyramidsand overstuffed couches and flat-screen TVs.There were definitely hang-out spots.But some were for working, some were for playing,some were for guys to collect their things.Most of all, I was just surprised with what I was finding.
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:以这个地方为例。从外面看，这象个典型的东北部的车库。这是纽约的长岛。唯一能给你暗示的就是这个圆型的窗户。房子内部是一个对16世纪日本茶屋的改建。主人从日本进口了所有的原材料，并聘请了日本木匠建造成传统风格。这个房间没有一个钉子或螺丝。所有衔接处都是纯手工雕琢和手绘的。
en:Take this place for example.On the outside it looks like a typical northeastern garage.This is in Long Island, New York.The only thing that might tip you off is the round window.On the inside it&#39;s a recreation of a16th century Japanese tea house.The man imported all the materials from Japan,and he hired a Japanese carpenterto build it in the traditional style.It has no nails or screws.All the joints are hand-carved and hand-scribed.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:这是另一个非常典型的场景。这是拉斯维加斯的某个郊区。但是你打开一扇车库的门就会看见里面有一个职业拳击台大小的场地。（笑声）建造它有一个好理由。建造它的人是维恩.麦库洛夫1992年奥运会他为爱尔兰赢得过银牌。他在这个空间里培训。他培训其他人。在车库的右侧，他有一个自己的奖章房间，在这里他能沉浸于自己的成就之中，这是关于一个人造空间的另一个重要的组成部分。
en:Here is another pretty typical scene. This is a suburban Las Vegas neighborhood.But you open one of the garage doorsand there is a professional-size boxing ring inside.(Laughter)And so there is a good reason for this.It was built by this man who is Wayne McCullough.He won the silver medal for Irelandin the 1992 Olympics,and he trains in this space. He trains other people.And right off the garage he has his own trophy roomwhere he can sort of bask in his accomplishments,which is another sort of important part about a manspace.
时间： 3:30
zh-cn:所以，当这个空间代表某人的职业时，那么这一个显然代表着一种热情。它内部看起来是一个英国航船。它收藏了很多18世纪到19世纪航海古董。博物馆级别的。
en:So, while this space represents someone&#39;s profession,this one certainly represents a passion.It&#39;s made to look like the inside of an English sailing ship.It&#39;s a collection of nautical antiques from the 1700s and 1800s.Museum quality.
时间： 3:43
zh-cn:所以，当我结束我的旅行时，我找到50多处空间。他们都很出乎意料，很令我惊奇。但是，他们也留给我非常深刻的印象，他们都那么有个性，也被人们花费了那么多心血去建造。我意识到那是因为这些我遇见的人们都非常热爱他们所从事的。他们非常热爱他们自己的职业。非常热爱他们的收藏和他们自己的兴趣。所以，他们创造了这些空间去反应他们喜欢做的，和他们自己。
en:So, as I came to the end of my journey,I found over 50 spaces.And they were unexpected and they were surprising.But they were also —I was really impressed by how personalized they were,and how much work went into them.And I realized that&#39;s because the guys that I metwere all very passionate about what they did.And they really loved their professions.And they were very passionate about their collections and their hobbies.And so they created these spacesto reflect what they love to do,and who they were.
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:所以，如果你不能有一个你自己的空间，我强烈建议你去找一个，并且走进去。非常感谢。（鼓掌声）
en:So if you don&#39;t have a space of your own,I highly recommend finding one, and getting into it.Thank you very much.(Applause)
