时间： 0:11
zh-cn:非常感谢，晚上好
en:Thank you very much. Good evening.
时间： 0:13
zh-cn:有些人可能发现我的姓有疯子的意思所以如果你在想一个疯子是如何进入到一个战争区域的我不会怪你的我在医学院毕业后作为一名志愿者加入了联合国儿童基金会进入了饱受战争蹂躏的索马里这个工作的工资是一美元我必须要这一美元的工资这样当联合国有必要颁布疏散令时我将被包含在内随后我义无反顾地进入了世界上最危险的地区此时此刻有些人可能会在暗自猜测我向各位保证我确实提前拿到了一半的钱
en:Some of you may have noticedthat my last name is Nutt.And if you did,you are forgiven for wonderinghow a Nutt managedto end up in a war zone.I actually was offered, right outof medical school, and accepteda volunteer contract to workwith UNICEF in war-torn Somalia,that was worth one dollar.And, you see, I had to be paid this dollarin the event that the UN neededto issue an evacuation order,so that I would be covered.I was, after all, heading into oneof the world&#39;s most dangerous places.And by now, some of youmay be asking yourselves,and I just want to reassure you,that I did get half the money up front.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:55
zh-cn:揣着兜里的仅有的50美分我来到了索马里的拜多阿媒体记者们口中的“死亡之城”之所以叫做死亡之城因为三十万人已经失去了他们的生命整整三十万人大多数死于战争引发的饥荒和疾病
en:But you see, this is how,with 50 cents in my pocket,I ended up in Baidoa, Somalia.Journalists called it the &quot;city of death.&quot;And they called it the city of deathbecause 300,000 peoplehad lost their lives there —300,000 people,mostly as a resultof war-related famine and disease.
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:我所属的团队致力于解决如何应对这种人道主义灾难这场灾难紧随卢旺达大屠杀之后地区的救助资金已经捉襟见肘很不幸，很多救援机构被迫关上了救助的大门我被派来帮助回答的主要问题也是全世界在战区的志愿者们问他们自己的：我们现在怎么做？那时候索马里的治安环境到目前为止也没有任何改观那简直可以用《疯狂的麦克斯》与《发条橙》的结合体来形容
en:I was part of a team that was taskedwith trying to figure outhow best to respondto this humanitarian catastrophe.It was right on the heelsof the Rwandan genocide,and aid money to the region was drying up.Many aid organizations, unfortunately,had been forced to close their doors.And so the question that I was askedto specifically help answer,which is one that aid workers askthemselves in war zones the world over,is: What the hell do we do now?You know, the security environmentin Somalia at that moment in time —and nothing has really changed too much —can best be described as &quot;Mad Max&quot;by way of &quot;A Clockwork Orange.&quot;
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:我清楚地记得在我来了几天之后我去了一家喂养诊疗所几十个妇女在排队等待每一个人都紧紧地抱着自己的婴儿。在和其中一位年轻的女性聊天的20分钟时间里我靠上前试图把我的手指放在孩子小小的手掌中。放上去的那一刻我发现婴儿已经僵硬了她已经死了她毫无生气的小手自然地蜷缩在一起因为营养不良和缺水她已经死去几个小时了。我后来了解到就在这个婴儿奄奄一息的时候这位年轻的女人已经被一群拿着卡拉希尼科夫步枪的年轻人勒索了两天他们试图从她那儿搜刮一些她很明显没有的钱财这种景象在世界各地陷入战争的地区随处可见有些孩子只有八岁这么高他们从没上过学但是他们出入战火全副武装
en:And I remember very distinctlya couple of days after my arrival,I went up to a feeding clinic.There were dozens of womenwho were standing in line,and they were clutchingtheir infants very close.About 20 minutes intothis conversation I was havingwith this one young woman,I leaned forwardand tried to put my fingerin the palm of her baby&#39;s hand.And when I did this,I discovered that her babywas already in rigor.She was stiff,and her little, lifeless handwas curled into itself.She had died hours beforeof malnutrition and dehydration.I later learnedthat as her baby was dying,this young woman hadbeen held for two daysby some teenage boys who were armedwith Kalashnikov rifles,and they were tryingto shake her down for more money,money she very clearly did not have.And this is a scene that I have confrontedin war zones the world over;places where kids, some as youngas eight — they are this big —and those kids, they havenever been to school.But they have fought and they have killedwith automatic rifles.
时间： 3:27
zh-cn:这是世界应该有的样子么？有人说战争是人类不可避免的自古以来就是这样我们说停止战争然而战争却一而再再而三的发生虽然我可以说见过了人类之间最惨绝人寰的相互杀害我仍然相信有解决这个问题的方法你们想知道为什么？因为超过20年的工作让我穿梭于世界上各大战区，我逐渐明白这个问题的某些部分我们大家作为一起生活的人民是可以做出改变的不是通过威胁或入侵的方式改变而是通过寻找所有合适的方法用崇尚和平，放弃战争的方式取代以牺牲和平为代价的战争
en:Is this just the way the world is?Some will you tell youthat war is unavoidably human.After all, it is as oldas existence itself.We say never again, and yet it happensagain and again and again.But I will tell youthat I have seen the absolute worstof what we as human beingsare capable of doing to one another,and yet I still believea different outcome is possible.Do you want to know why?Because over 20 years of doing this work,going in and out of war zonesaround the world,I have come to understandthat there are aspects of this problemthat we, all of us, as peopleoccupying this shared space,that we can change —not through force or coercion or invasion,but by simply looking at allof the options available to usand choosing the ones that favorpeace at the expense of war,instead of war at the expense of peace.
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:我们怎么做呢？各位请看：如今至少有8亿的轻武器在世界各地流通绝大多数死于战区的平民比如刚才说的那个婴儿是死于这些武装力量之手他们依靠唾手可得的便宜、简单、有效的武器动辄去强奸，威胁，恐吓和残酷对待那些平民。有多便宜？世界上的某些地区10美元就可以买下一把AK-47。在我工作过的很多地方，得到一把自动步枪比得到干净的直饮水要容易得多。
en:How so?Well, I want you to consider this:there are at least 800 millionsmall arms and light weaponsin circulation in the world today.The vast majority of civilians,like that young baby,who are dying in war zonesaround the world,are dying at the handsof various armed groupswho rely on a near-infinite supplyof cheap, easy and efficient weaponsto rape, threaten, intimidateand brutalize those civiliansat every turn.How cheap?Well, in some parts of the world,you can buy an AK-47for as little as 10 dollars.In many places in which I have worked,it is easier to get accessto an automatic riflethan it is to get accessto clean drinking water.
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:接下来重要的是：我们可以改变这个现状么？为了回答这个问题我们看一下世界地图。我们先看一下所有正在战火中的国家和在灾难中死亡或者无家可归的人的数字。这是一个让人震惊的数字超过四千万人。在这张地图上还可以注意到一个事实你会发现绝大多数这些国家都在全球的南方。接下来请看世界上前20轻武器输出国。我们发现了什么？他们被涂了绿色。我们发现绝大多数的国家都在全球的北方主要是西方国家。这说明了什么？这说明那些饱受战争折磨的人都是贫困国家的人，而那些在战争中获利的人都是发达国家的人就像你我这样的人。
en:And so now the important part:Can anything be done about this?To answer that question,let&#39;s take a lookat this map of the world.And now, let&#39;s add in all of the countriesthat are currently at war,and the number of peoplewho have either diedor have been displacedas a result of that violence.It is a staggering number —more than 40 million people.But you will also noticesomething else about this map.You will noticethat most of those countriesare in the Global South.Now, let&#39;s look at the countriesthat are the world&#39;s top 20 exportersof small arms in the world.And what do we notice?Well, you see them in green.You will notice that those are mostlycountries in the Global North,primarily Western countries.What does this tell us?This tells us that most of the peoplewho are dying in warare living in poor countries,and yet most of the peoplewho are profiting from warare living in rich countries —people like you and me.
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:如果我们先把轻武器的话题放在一边我们看一下世界上所有武器的流通情况。谁是最大的贸易国？大约80%的武器市场不是由别人控制正是联合国安理会的五个国家加上德国所控制。令人震惊，是吧？
en:And then what if we gobeyond small arms for a second.What if we look at all weaponsin circulation in the world?Who does the biggest business?Well, roughly 80 percent of those weaponscome from none otherthan the five permanent membersof the United Nations Security Council,plus Germany.It&#39;s shocking, isn&#39;t it?
时间： 7:00
zh-cn:也许有些人这时候会说“是的，不过等一下...纳特”
en:Now, some of you might be sayingat this moment in time,&quot;Oh yeah, but OK,hang on a second there ... Nutt.&quot;
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:09
zh-cn:小学的那段时光很神奇真的是一段美妙的经历。
en:Grade school was spectacular for me.It was, really, a wonderful experience.
时间： 7:13
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:16
zh-cn:也许你们会这样说这些战区的武器泛滥并不是战争的起因而是在战争与暴力夜以继日的折磨下产生的结果。像伊拉克和阿富汗这样的地区他们需要武器去维持法律和秩序去维护和平和治安去打击恐怖组织这当然是好的。
en:But you might be saying to yourselves,You know, all of these weaponsin war zones — they&#39;re not a cause,but an effect of the violencethat plagues themeach and every single day.You know, places like Iraqand Afghanistan,where they need these weaponsto be able to maintain law and order,promote peace and security,to combat terror groups —surely this is a good thing.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:我们来仔细思考一下这个说法因为自从反恐战争开始之后你可以看到轻武器的交易呈井喷上升的趋势。实际上在过去的15年里总交易量已经翻了三倍。现在我们比对一下同样时间内世界各地直接死于武装袭击的人口数量。各位发现了什么？我们可以看到人口数也翻了三到四番。两个曲线走势基本相同。
en:Let&#39;s take a look at that assumptionfor just one moment,because you see there has beena boom in the small-arms tradesince the start of the War on Terror.In fact, it is a businessthat has grown threefoldover the past 15 years.And now let&#39;s compare thatto the number of peoplewho have directly diedin armed conflict around the worldin that same period.What do you notice?Well, you notice that, in fact,that also goes uproughly three- to fourfold.They basically go upand end at the same point.
时间： 8:10
zh-cn:据此我们可以对死亡上升是轻武器造成的结果还是另有原因进行一个循环论证。但是有一件事我们要仔细考虑武器贩卖与地区安全的关系我们值得仔细考虑。因为当我们发现这些本来运输到伊拉克为了给伊拉克政府军装备的轻武器和运输到叙利亚是为了镇压反对派的轻武器最后都落入了ISIS手中。因为我们发现这些本来运输到利比亚的轻武器最后通过撒哈拉沙漠辗转到了博科圣地和基地组织等其他武装组织的手里。
en:Now, we can have a circular argument hereabout whether this increasein fatalities is a responseto the increase of small arms,or the other way around.But here&#39;s what we shouldreally take away from this.What we should take away from thisis that this is a relationshipworth scrutinizing,especially when you considerthat small arms that were shipped to Iraqfor use by the Iraqi Army,or to Syria for so-calledmoderate opposition fighters,that those arms, many of them,are now in the hands of ISIS;or when you consider that armsthat were shipped to Libyaare now actively driftingacross the Sahel,and ending up with groupslike Boko Haram and al Qaedaand other militant groups.
时间： 8:58
zh-cn:这就是问题所在。可以看到轻武器的泛滥导致了遍地的灾难武器泛滥覆水难收。
en:And therein lies the problem.Because, you see,small arms anywhereare a menace everywhere,because their first stopis rarely their last.
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:现在每年每人在战争上的开支大概是249美元每人249美元。这是每年用在地球南方的儿童教育疫苗免疫和对抗营养不良的海外援助的十二倍。但是我们可以改变这个平衡。怎么去做呢？这本质上是一个供求关系问题所以我们可以从两方面解决。
en:Spending on war per person per yearnow amounts to about 249 dollars —249 dollars per person,which is roughly 12 timeswhat we spend on foreign aid,money that is used to educateand vaccinate childrenand combat malnutritionin the Global South.But we can shift that balance.How do we do this?Well, it is essentially a problemof both supply and demand,so we can tackle it from both sides.
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:在供应方面，我们可以敦促我们政府去采取国际武器透明机制。比如接受武器贸易公约。这样可以让发达国家对于武器的去向和用途承担更多的责任。比如美国这个世界最大的武器出口国，奥巴马总统已经签署了武器贸易公约，但是它只有得到美国的参议院批准才有法律约束力。这正需要我们的奋力疾呼。组织轻武器泛滥不会解决战争问题。对于武器的管制也不会解决战争问题。但是这是朝正确方向上的重要一步。而且这正是身处发达国家的我们需要做出的改变。
en:On the supply side,we can push our governmentsto adopt international armstransparency mechanismslike the Arms Trade Treaty,which makes it so that rich countrieshave to be more accountablefor where their arms are goingand what their arms might be used for.Here in the United States,the largest arms-exporting countryin the world by far,President Obama has rightly signedthe Arms Trade Treaty,but none of it takes effect,it isn&#39;t binding,until it is approvedand ratified by the Senate.This is where we needto make our voices heard.You know, the curbing of small arms —it&#39;s not going to solvethe problem of war.Increased control mechanismswon&#39;t solve that problem.But it&#39;s an important stepin the right direction.And it&#39;s up to all of uswho live in those rich countriesto make change here.
时间：10:40
zh-cn:那么需求方面呢？世界上有大量的人正站在死于战争的边缘。我们可以通过对于教育投资、加强法治促进经济发展和保护妇女权益来打破这个暴力的循环。我已经亲眼所见在这个世界上这些方法有多么不可思议的力量。
en:What about on the demand side?You know, there are generationsaround the worldwho are being lost to war.It is possible to disruptthat cycle of violencewith investments in education,in strengthening the rule of lawand in economic development,especially for women.I have personally seenjust how incredibly powerfulthose kinds of efforts can bearound the world.
时间：11:06
zh-cn:但是有一点：这需要时间。这意味着如果作为个人如果你想要给予请务必慷慨解囊。但请注意如何给予和给予多少一样重要。固定捐款比如每月的捐款是更加有效的捐助方式因为人权组织可以从长远角度合理规划这笔资金。这笔资金会用在饱受战争影响的家庭虽然可能这些战争已经被我们遗忘。
en:But here&#39;s the thing:they take time,which means for you as individuals,if you want to give,please, by all means do it.But know that how you giveis just as importantas how much you give.Regular contributionslike monthly contributionsare a far more effective way of giving,because they allowhumanitarian organizationsto properly plan and be investedover the long term,and to be present in the lives of familieswho have been affected by war,wars that many of us, frankly,all too quickly forget.
时间：11:44
zh-cn:当我第一次 作为一位年轻医生坐上去往索马里的飞机时我不知道战火中生存意味着什么。但是我现在可以和各位分享。在战火中生存就是在漆黑的夜里躺在床上听着萦绕耳边的“蹦蹦蹦蹦蹦”的机枪声，不知道死亡什么时候会降临到我的头上。这种可怕的而痛苦的恐惧感是世界上成千上万的人尤其是儿童每天都必须面对的。做这份工作多年以来很遗憾，战争结束了我很多朋友的生命。有很多次甚至差点结束了我的生命。
en:When I first got on that planefor Somalia as a young doctor,I had no idea what it meantto live with war.But I can tell you that I knowwhat it means now.And I know what it meansto lie in bed in the pitch-black nightand listen to that haunting&quot;pop-pop-pop-pop-pop!&quot;of automatic gunfire,and wonder with absolute dreadhow many minutes I have leftuntil it will be right on top of me.I can tell you that it is a terrifyingand agonizing fear,one that millions of peoplearound the world are forced to confronteach and every single day,especially children.Over the years of doing this work,unfortunately, war has killedfar too many people close to me.And on at least a couple of occasions,war has very nearly killed me as well.
时间：12:52
zh-cn:但我仍然坚信，我们可以做出改变这也是我每天坚持在那里的原因。如你所见，战争是人类的产物。我们发动战争，传播战争我们通过战争购买和售卖。因此我们责无旁贷去解决它。并且也只有我们可以解决它。
en:But I firmly believe,which is why I get up and dowhat I do every single day,that we can make different choices here.Because you see, war is ours,as human beings.We buy it, sell it, spread it and wage it.We are thereforenot powerless to solve it.On the contrary,we are the only ones who can.
时间：13:22
zh-cn:非常感谢 祝各位成功。
en:Thank you very much, and I wantto wish you the greatest success.
时间：13:25
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
