时间： 0:11
zh-cn:作为一位概念派艺术家，我经常寻求创新的方式通过绘画、雕塑、视频和表演去启发大家思考一些有挑战性的话题。但是抛开形式不谈，我最喜欢的材料是历史和对话。
en:As a conceptual artist,I&#39;m constantly looking for creative waysto spark challenging conversations.I do this though painting, sculpture,video and performance.But regardless of the format,two of my favorite materialsare history and dialogue.
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:在2007年，我创造了“莲花”，一个直径约2.3米重达600磅的莲花花瓣玻璃刻绘作品。在佛教中，莲花是超然的象征是纯净的意念和精神的象征。但是仔细看这个莲花，每一个花瓣都是贩卖奴隶的船只的横截面。我所临摹的图像来自于英国的奴役手册，它后来被废奴主义者用来展示奴隶制的残忍。在美国我们不愿意讨论奴隶制，我们也不把奴隶制当成全球的产业。用这个佛学象征我希望可以让大家意识到非裔美国人的历史，治愈他们的的创伤，并且鼓励有关我们共同的过去的讨论。
en:In 2007, I created &quot;Lotus,&quot;a seven-and-a-half-foot diameter,600-pound glass depictionof a lotus blossom.In Buddhism, the lotus is a symbolfor transcendenceand for purity of mind and spirit.But a closer look at this lotusreveals each petalto be the cross-section of a slave ship.This iconic diagram was takenfrom a British slaving manualand later used by abolitionists to showthe atrocities of slavery.In America, we don&#39;t liketo talk about slavery,nor do we look at it as a global industry.But by using this Buddhist symbol,I hope to universalize and transcendthe history and trauma of black Americaand encourage discussionsabout our shared past.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:为了创作“莲花”我们雕刻了6000多个人物。之后美国纽约议会在青年鹰学院制造了一个直径8.5米的钢铁版本。青年鹰学院是一所为非裔和拉丁裔学生服务的学校。这两类人是受历史影响最大的，同样是他们近来又到了巨大的影响。我后面会继续讲这个话题。
en:To create &quot;Lotus,&quot;we carved over 6,000 figures.And this later led to a commissionby the City of New Yorkto create a 28-foot version in steelas a permanent installationat the Eagle Academy for Young Men,a school for black and latino students,the two groups most affectedby this history.The same two groups are very affectedby a more recent phenomenon,but let me digress.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:我一直在全球的纪念品商店和跳蚤市场收集木质非洲人物雕塑。他们的来源和真实性是很值得怀疑的，但是人们相信雕塑里蕴含能量甚至魔法。直到最近我才找到它们用在我的作品中的办法。
en:I&#39;ve been collectingwooden African figuresfrom tourist shops and flea marketsaround the world.The authenticity and originof them is completely debatable,but people believe theseto be imbued with power,or even magic.Only recently have I figured outhow to use this in my own work.
时间： 1:50
zh-cn:（枪声）
en:(Gun shots)
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:2012年开始 世界见证了塔拉万·马丁、迈克尔·布朗、埃里克·加纳桑德拉·布兰德、塔米尔·莱斯等一系列手无寸铁的非裔公民被警察射杀，并且警察经常无罪开释。想到这些受害者和很多次我自己的经历，作为一位守法的春藤盟校的教授我也曾经被警察袭击被枪口直接指着。想到这些 我创作了这个艺术并且简单的命名为“嘣”。
en:Since 2012, the world has witnessedthe killings of Trayvon Martin,Michael Brown, Eric Garner,Sandra Bland, Tamir Riceand literally countless otherunarmed black citizensat the hands of the police,who frequently walk awaywith no punishment at all.In consideration of these victimsand the several times that even I,a law-abiding, Ivy League professor,have been targeted and harassedat gunpoint by the police.I created this body of worksimply entitled &quot;BAM.&quot;
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:为了让他们看起来一样并且容易被忽视抹去这些雕塑的身份是非常重要的。我先把它们放在浓稠的棕色液体蜡之中，然后带到了射击场在那里我用子弹进行重新雕塑。使用大型枪支配合高速摄影机是非常有趣的。但是我对于这些雕塑的尊敬让我无法扣动扳机突然我感觉我好像在对我自己射击。最后我的摄像师，劳尔替我开了枪。我取回打碎的雕塑并制造模具，在外表裹上一层蜡，最后镀上铜色就像你们看到的这样。每一个雕塑都有着暴力制造的印记就像战场上的伤痕。
en:It was important to erasethe identity of each of these figures,to make them all look the sameand easier to disregard.To do this, I dip them in a thick,brown waxbefore taking them to a shooting rangewhere I re-sculpted them using bullets.And it was fun,playing with big guns andhigh-speed video cameras.But my reverence for these figureskept me from actually pulling the trigger,somehow feeling as if I wouldbe shooting myself.Finally, my cameraman, Raul,fired the shots.I then took the fragments of theseand created molds,and cast them first in wax,and finally in bronzelike the image you see here,which bears the marksof its violent creationlike battle wounds or scars.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:当我最近在迈阿密展出我的作品时，一位女性告诉我她感到每一枪都打在她的灵魂上。同时她觉得这些艺术品纪念了这些死去的受害者也纪念了整个美国历史上因为种族犯罪而牺牲的所有人
en:When I showed this work recently in Miami,a woman told me she feltevery gun shot to her soul.But she also felt that these artworksmemorialized the victims of these killingsas well as other victims ofracial violence throughout US history.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:但是“莲花”和“嘣”的意义已经超越了美国历史。去年在柏林展出时，一位哲学学生问我是什么引发了最近的杀戮。我向他展示了一张20世纪早期的一张画着处以私刑的明信片。我告诉他这些杀戮已经持续了超过500年历史。但是只有通过像他所问的问题和对于历史和种族的更多深刻的对话我们个人和社会才会进化。
en:But &quot;Lotus&quot; and &quot;BAM&quot; are largerthan just US history.While showing in Berlin last year,a philosophy student asked mewhat prompted these recent killings.I showed him a photoof a lynching postcardfrom the early 1900sand reminded him that these killingshave been going on for over 500 years.But it&#39;s only through questions like hisand more thoughtful dialogueabout history and racecan we evolve as individuals and society.
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:我希望我的艺术品可以为这样坦诚的交流提供一个安全的环境也为那些投身于真实且必要的对话之中的人提供一个机会。
en:I hope my artwork creates a safe spacefor this type of honest exchangeand an opportunity for peopleto engage one anotherin real and necessary conversation.
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
