时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我在印度最贫穷的地区比哈尔邦长大，并且我记得当我六岁的时候有一天我回到家时，在家门口找到一个手拉车，里面装满了最美味的零食。我和我的兄弟们立刻开动猛吃，然后那个时候我父亲刚好回到家。他当时面色铁青，我至今还记得我们怎样嚎啕大哭，眼睁睁地看着那辆被我们吃了将近一半零食的车被拖走了。
en:I grew up in Bihar, India&#39;s poorest state,and I remember when I was six years old,I remember coming home one day to find a cartfull of the most delicious sweets at our doorstep.My brothers and I dug in,and that&#39;s when my father came home.He was livid, and I still remember how we criedwhen that cart with our half-eaten sweetswas pulled away from us.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:后来我才知道为什么我父亲如此生气。因为那些零食其实是来自一个承包商的贿赂，他想通过贿赂从我父亲那里得到一个政府合同。我父亲负责比哈尔邦的道路建设，并且他的立场非常坚定，坚决反对腐败，即使他因此被骚扰甚至威胁。我父亲的故事只是一个孤单的斗争过程，因为比哈尔邦曾经也是印度最腐败的邦，那里的公职人员经常为自己谋取利益，而不是服务那些穷苦的人民。这些穷人的孩子没有足够的食物，或者没有书读，而这些人也无处表达他们的痛苦。
en:Later, I understood why my father got so upset.Those sweets were a bribefrom a contractor who was trying to get my fatherto award him a government contract.My father was responsible for building roads in Bihar,and he had developed a firm stance against corruption,even though he was harassed and threatened.His was a lonely struggle, because Biharwas also India&#39;s most corrupt state,where public officials were enriching themselves,[rather] than serving the poor who had no meansto express their anguish if their childrenhad no food or no schooling.
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:我深刻地体会到了这一切当我去一些偏僻的村庄研究关于贫穷的问题。我挨个去了许多村庄，我记得有一天，当我又累又饿，几乎要瘫倒的时候我待在一棵树下，那时候天气非常燥热，正在那个时候，一个几乎是那个村子里最穷的人邀请我去他的棚屋里休息，还非常和善地给我食物。后来我才意识到他给我的那些食物原来是他一个家庭的整整两天的供给。他如此慷慨的给予给我留下了深刻的印象，并且挑战了以及改变了我整个人生的意义。我下定决心要回报给他。
en:And I experienced this most viscerallywhen I traveled to remote villages to study poverty.And as I went village to village,I remember one day, when I was famished and exhausted,and I was almost collapsingin a scorching heat under a tree,and just at that time, one of the poorest men in that villageinvited me into his hut and graciously fed me.Only I later realized that what he fed mewas food for his entire family for two days.This profound gift of generositychallenged and changed the very purpose of my life.I resolved to give back.
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:后来，我加入了世界银行组织，这个组织的目的是通过把来自富裕国家的援助输送到贫穷国家，来解决像这样的贫穷问题。我刚开始的工作重心是乌干达，我着重于与乌干达政府的财政部进行关于相关改革的谈判这样他们可以得到我们的援助贷款。但是当我们支付了贷款之后，我记得去乌干达考察的时候我发现那些新造的学校没有教科书也没有老师，那些新建的医疗诊所没有药物，那些穷人还是没有发言的机会或是追索的权力。乌干达简直就和当年的比哈尔邦一样。
en:Later, I joined the World Bank, which sought to fightsuch poverty by transferring aid from rich to poor countries.My initial work focused on Uganda, where I focusedon negotiating reforms with the Finance Ministry of Ugandaso they could access our loans.But after we disbursed the loans, I remembera trip in Uganda where I found newly built schoolswithout textbooks or teachers,new health clinics without drugs,and the poor once again without any voice or recourse.It was Bihar all over again.
时间： 3:26
zh-cn:比哈尔邦代表着发展进程中的一种挑战，即是腐败包围着那卑微的贫穷。在全世界范围内，有1.3亿人口过着每天开销少于1.25美元的日子，而我曾经在乌干达做过的工作则代表着的这些问题的传统解决途径从1944年开始至今未变，当第二次世界大战的胜利者，那500个男性创始人，以及一个孤零零的女性创始人，在美国新罕布尔士州聚在一起，开创了布雷顿森林机构，包括世界银行组织在内。我之前讲到的区域发展的传统途径有三个重要的问题。第一，从北边的发达国家向南方的相对贫穷的国家输入资源以及关于改革的具体方案。第二，这些传输援助的发展机构并不透明，你很难知道他们到底支援了什么项目或者达到了什么成果。第三，在发展中国家开展的项目只跟少数政府官员有交流，而跟当地的人们有很少的互动，而这些人才应该是真正该受到发展援助的对象。
en:Bihar represents the challenge of development:abject poverty surrounded by corruption.Globally, 1.3 billion people live on less than$1.25 a day, and the work I did in Ugandarepresents the traditional approach to these problemsthat has been practiced since 1944,when winners of World War II, 500 founding fathers,and one lonely founding mother,gathered in New Hampshire, USA,to establish the Bretton Woods institutions,including the World Bank.And that traditional approach to developmenthad three key elements. First, transfer of resourcesfrom rich countries in the Northto poorer countries in the South,accompanied by reform prescriptions.Second, the development institutions that channeledthese transfers were opaque, with little transparencyof what they financed or what results they achieved.And third, the engagement in developing countrieswas with a narrow set of government eliteswith little interaction with the citizens, who arethe ultimate beneficiaries of development assistance.
时间： 4:50
zh-cn:今天，这三个问题都正在得到关注因为全球环境发生了重大的变化。开放的知识渠道，多方的援助以及更为透明的政府政策，综合起来，这代表了三个重要的变化它们正在改变如今的发展方式，并且它们更代表着解决发展问题的希望，比如那些我在乌干达和比哈尔邦所见证的。
en:Today, each of these elements is opening updue to dramatic changes in the global environment.Open knowledge, open aid, open governance,and together, they represent three key shiftsthat are transforming developmentand that also hold greater hope for the problemsI witnessed in Uganda and in Bihar.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:第一个重要的变化是开放的知识渠道。你们知道，现在的发展中国家并不会直接接受这些由美国、欧洲以及世界银行给它们设计的经济发展解决方案。从南方部分国家成功的经济发展中，其它发展中国家也有了自己的想法，自己的期望，以及自己切实可行的措施。它们想知道中国是怎样在30年内把5亿人带出贫穷的状况，墨西哥的“机遇”计划是怎样将数百万孩童的教育和营养状况有效进行提高的。这是一个全新的开放知识流体系，不只是由北向南的援助，而是南南对话，甚至是由南向北的渠道，比如纽约如今就受到了墨西哥“机遇”项目的启示。
en:The first key shift is open knowledge.You know, developing countries today will not simplyaccept solutions that are handed down to themby the U.S., Europe or the World Bank.They get their inspiration, their hope,their practical know-how,from successful emerging economies in the South.They want to know how China lifted 500 million peopleout of poverty in 30 years,how Mexico&#39;s Oportunidades programimproved schooling and nutrition for millions of children.This is the new ecosystem of open-knowledge flows,not just traveling North to South, but South to South,and even South to North,with Mexico&#39;s Oportunidades today inspiring New York City.
时间： 6:13
zh-cn:当这些由北向南的援助正在变得更加开放，同样的，这些组织援助的发展机构也在逐渐变得更为开放。这就是第二个变化：更透明的援助。最近，世界银行组织向公众开放了其数据库，其中包括五十年来两百个国家的八千个经济社会指数，同时它开展了一个全球性比赛来寻找用来分析运用这些数据的创新型应用程序。同时，一些发展机构得以建立让公众可以审查他们资助的项目。比如像来自肯尼亚的地图应用“GeoMapping”，上面的红点代表所有被捐款者资助的学校位置，并且在绿色阴影越深的区域，有越多的不在读孩童。所以这个简单的数据混合显示了在这块有最多不在读孩童人数的区域内，还未有捐款者在资助任何学校，这就提出了新的问题。我们的发展援助有否针对在最需要帮助的人群？用这种方法，世界银行组织现在已经在地理坐标上标记了在143个地区开展的三万个项目，并且捐助者也在使用这样一个公共平台来标记他们所有的项目。这是在实现援助透明度和完善问责制上的一个巨大的进步。
en:And just as these North-to-South transfers are opening up,so too are the development institutionsthat channeled these transfers.This is the second shift: open aid.Recently, the World Bank opened its vault of datafor public use, releasing 8,000 economic and social indicatorsfor 200 countries over 50 years,and it launched a global competition to crowdsourceinnovative apps using this data.Development institutions today are also openingfor public scrutiny the projects they finance.Take GeoMapping. In this map from Kenya,the red dots show where all the schools financed by donorsare located, and the darker the shade of green,the more the number of out-of-school children.So this simple mashup reveals that donorshave not financed any schools in the areaswith the most out-of-school children,provoking new questions. Is development assistancetargeting those who most need our help?In this manner, the World Bank has now GeoMapped30,000 project activities in 143 countries,and donors are using a common platformto map all their projects.This is a tremendous leap forward in transparencyand accountability of aid.
时间： 7:49
zh-cn:并且这联系到了第三点，在我的看法里是发展过程中最重要的变化：开放的政府管理。 如今各个政府正在逐渐变得更为开放与公众在要求的更多的声音与责任制度相符合。从“阿拉伯之春” 到印度的&quot;安纳·哈扎尔运动&quot;，手机与社交媒体的运用并不只是为了政治上的监督与问责，同时也为了地区发展的监督与问责。当地政府是否在为其公民提供服务？比如说，部分在非洲和东亚的政府正在逐步向公众开放预算。
en:And this leads me to the third, and in my view,the most significant shift in development:open governance. Governments today are opening upjust as citizens are demanding voice and accountability.From the Arab Spring to the Anna Hazare movement in India,using mobile phones and social medianot just for political accountabilitybut also for development accountability.Are governments delivering services to the citizens?So for instance, several governments in Africaand Eastern Europe are opening their budgets to the public.
时间： 8:31
zh-cn:但是，你知道，在公共预算和可以真正被理解的预算之间是有巨大的不同的。这是公共预算。（大笑）你可以发现，它并不是真的能被一个普通老百姓得以获得或者了解来理解政府到底是如何分配花销它的资源的。来解决这样一个问题，政府们正在运用新的工具来视觉化他们的预算，用以让公众更加容易理解。在这个来自莫多尔瓦的地图，绿色代表这些有着低开销但是高教育成果的学校区域，而红色则代表相反的区域。像这样的工具可以把满满一书架的天书文件变成大众化和视觉化的结果，并且这样的开放度让人激动的是，如今我们拥有了新的途径让公众来与政府进行交流与反馈。在今天的菲律宾，父母与学生可以在一个名为“Checkmyschool.org”的网站上即时反馈，或者用短信的方式来反馈情况，比如学校里是否有足够的老师与课本，这些我曾经在乌干达和比哈尔亲眼所见的问题。并且政府是会回应的。所以比如，当网站上显示有人举报有学校因为腐败问题而停下学校维修工作，从而导致八百名学生不能上课时，菲律宾教育部门马上采取了行动。
en:But, you know, there is a big difference between a budgetthat&#39;s public and a budget that&#39;s accessible.This is a public budget. (Laughter)And as you can see, it&#39;s not really accessibleor understandable to an ordinary citizenthat is trying to understand how the government is spending its resources.To tackle this problem, governments are using new toolsto visualize the budget so it&#39;s more understandableto the public.In this map from Moldova, the green color showsthose districts that have low spending on schoolsbut good educational outcomes,and the red color shows the opposite.Tools like this help turn a shelf full of inscrutable documentsinto a publicly understandable visual,and what&#39;s exciting is that with this openness,there are today new opportunities for citizensto give feedback and engage with government.So in the Philippines today, parents and studentscan give real-time feedback on a website,Checkmyschool.org, or using SMS, whether teachersand textbooks are showing up in school,the same problems I witnessed in Uganda and in Bihar.And the government is responsive. So for instance,when it was reported on this website that 800 studentswere at risk because school repairs had stalleddue to corruption, the Department of Educationin the Philippines took swift action.
时间：10:18
zh-cn:并且你也知道，令人激动的是这样的创新正在南方地区传播开来，从菲律宾到印度尼西亚，肯尼亚，摩尔多瓦还有更多国家。在坦桑尼亚的达累斯萨拉姆，即使是一个非常贫穷的集体也可以使用这样的工具来让他人听见他们的期望。这是Tandale地图在2011年8月看起来的样子，但是在几个星期之内，大学学生成功地运用手机和一个开放资源平台来详细地刻画出这整个区域的基础设施。令人激动的是，当地居民们立刻开始反馈关于哪个健康或者水利设施没有在正常运行，你可以看到这些聚集的红色气泡，提供了贫穷人们的共同想法的一种图像视觉化效果。如今，比哈尔邦也正在转变地更加开放，在一个政府承诺的更为透明、公众更易理解并且提供有效回应的领导团体之下。
en:And you know what&#39;s exciting is that this innovationis now spreading South to South, from the Philippinesto Indonesia, Kenya, Moldova and beyond.In Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, even an impoverishedcommunity was able to use these toolsto voice its aspirations.This is what the map of Tandale looked likein August, 2011. But within a few weeks,university students were able to use mobile phonesand an open-source platform to dramatically mapthe entire community infrastructure.And what is very exciting is that citizens were thenable to give feedback as to which health or water pointswere not working, aggregatedin the red bubbles that you see,which together provides a graphic visualof the collective voices of the poor.Today, even Bihar is turning around and opening upunder a committed leadership that is making governmenttransparent, accessible and responsive to the poor.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:但是，你知道，在世界上很多地方，许多政府并不愿意变得更为开放，或者来为贫穷的人民作出服务，这是对于想改变这样情况的人们一个真正的挑战。孤军奋战的他们，如同我父亲，还有更多更多的人，他们需要联合起来，通过发展工作当中关键的前沿技术让他们能够一起克服各种困难。比如说，今天，在加纳，来自民间、议会以及政府的勇敢的改革者们形成了一个联盟，以实现石油透明合同为目的。根据这个联盟，议会当中的改革者们正着手调查可疑的合同。这些例子为那些我在乌干达见到的问题，以及如我父亲在比哈尔所遇到的问题，带来了新的希望和新的机遇。
en:But, you know, in many parts of the world,governments are not interested in opening upor in serving the poor, and it is a real challengefor those who want to change the system.These are the lonely warriorslike my father and many, many others,and a key frontier of development workis to help these lonely warriors join handsso they can together overcome the odds.So for instance, today, in Ghana, courageous reformersfrom civil society, Parliament and government,have forged a coalition for transparent contractsin the oil sector, and, galvanized by this,reformers in Parliament are now investigating dubious contracts.These examples give new hope, new possibilityto the problems I witnessed in Ugandaor that my father confronted in Bihar.
时间：12:49
zh-cn:两年前，2010年4月8日，我打电话给我父亲，那天很晚了，我已经八十高龄的父亲正在打着一份七十页长的针对道路建设腐败问题的公益诉讼。虽然他不是律师，第二天他在公堂之上为这个案子辩护。他赢下了这场官司，可是晚上，他倒下了，他离开了这个世界。他一直战斗到了最后，拥有着不断增长的热忱来与腐败和贫穷做斗争，所以不只是政府官员需要变得更加真诚，公民也需要站在一起来让自己的声音得以被外界听取。这两者成为了他生命中的两个端点，并且他在其中的折返，体现了正在改变的发展观念。
en:Two years ago, on April 8th, 2010, I called my father.It was very late at night, and at age 80,he was typing a 70-page public interest litigationagainst corruption in a road project.Though he was no lawyer, he argued the case in courthimself the next day. He won the ruling,but later that very evening,he fell, and he died.He fought till the end, increasingly passionatethat to combat corruption and poverty,not only did government officials need to be honest,but citizens needed to join togetherto make their voices heard.These became the two bookends of his life,and the journey he traveled in betweenmirrored the changing development landscape.
时间：13:57
zh-cn:今天，我被这些变化启发着，并且我很开心在世界银行组织，我们正在拥抱这样的新方向，一个与我二十年前在乌干达的工作不同的重大启程。我们需要更加快速的开放这样的发展方向让知识在多方向流通，来激励那些参与者们，让援助变得更加透明，可以问责以及更加有效，让政府更加开放，让民众更加积极地参与并被政府中的改革者们赋予更多的权力。我们需要加速这样的变化。如果我们这样做了，我们会发现，在比哈尔邦的贫穷的集体声音会被听见，在乌干达，在更广阔的地方。我们会看到，教科书和老师会出现在他们下一代的学校里。我们还会发现这些孩子一样能拥有一个真正的机会，来找到冲出贫穷的出路。谢谢！（掌声）（掌声）
en:Today, I&#39;m inspired by these changes, and I&#39;m excitedthat at the World Bank, we are embracingthese new directions, a significant departurefrom my work in Uganda 20 years ago.We need to radically open up developmentso knowledge flows in multiple directions,inspiring practitioners, so aid becomes transparent,accountable and effective, so governments open upand citizens are engaged and empoweredwith reformers in government.We need to accelerate these shifts.If we do, we will find that the collective voicesof the poor will be heard in Bihar,in Uganda, and beyond.We will find that textbooks and teacherswill show up in schools for their children.We will find that these children, too,have a real chance of breaking their way out of poverty.Thank you. (Applause)(Applause)
