时间： 0:12
zh-cn:今天我给大家看一个电动交通工具它比自行车还轻，你可以随身带到任何地方在墙上插座充电15分钟，你就能够跑1000公里远电费大约就1块钱。但是我说电动交通工具时，人们一想到交通工具，他们会想到汽车摩托车和自行车，那些我们日常用的交通工具。但是你如果从不同的角度来看，你会创造更多有趣的，更新奇的概念。
en:Today I&#39;m going to show you an electric vehiclethat weighs less than a bicycle,that you can carry with you anywhere,that you can charge off a normal wall outlet in 15 minutes,and you can run it for 1,000 kilometerson about a dollar of electricity.But when I say the word electric vehicle,people think about vehicles. They think about carsand motorcycles and bicycles, and the vehicles that you use every day.But if you come about it from a different perspective,you can create some more interesting,more novel concepts.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:所以我们做了个东西。我这儿有几个零件在口袋里。这是马达。这个马达有足够的能量带你在旧金山以每小时20英里的速度爬坡，大约每小时30公里，这个电池能支持大约六英里，或10公里的范围足够走大约一半的美国境内的汽车旅程。最妙之处是这些零件是我们在一家玩具店买来的。这些是遥控飞机上的。这些零件的性能太好了你要是从不同的角度来考虑交通工具，你真能改变事情。
en:So we built something.I&#39;ve got some of the pieces in my pocket here.So this is the motor.This motor has enough power to take youup the hills of San Francisco at about 20 miles per hour,about 30 kilometers an hour,and this battery, this battery right herehas about six miles of range, or 10 kilometers,which is enough to cover about half of the car tripsin the U.S. alone.But the best part about these componentsis that we bought them at a toy store.These are from remote control airplanes.And the performance of these things has gotten so goodthat if you think about vehicles a little bit differently,you can really change things.
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:今天我们给你们示范一下如何使用这个工具。别光看它多有趣，也看看它的轻便是如何能够完全改变你与像旧金山这样的城市的互动的。
en:So today we&#39;re going to show you one exampleof how you can use this.Pay attention to not only how fun this thing is,but also how the portability that comes with thiscan totally change the way you interact with a city like San Francisco.
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:（音乐）（6 英里的范围，最高速度接近20英里/小时）（爬坡）（再生制动）
en:(Music)[6 Mile Range] [Top Speed Near 20mph][Uphill Climbing][Regenerative Braking]
时间： 2:49
zh-cn:（掌声）（欢呼）
en:(Applause)(Cheers)
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:我们将展示它能做什么。很容易操作的。它有一个手动遥控器，很容易控制加速，刹车，倒着走也可以，同样可以刹车。它轻得令人难以置信。我是说，你可以拿起来，随身携带不论去哪。
en:So we&#39;re going to show you what this thing can do.It&#39;s really maneuverable. You have a hand-held remote,so you can pretty easily control acceleration, braking,go in reverse if you like, also have braking.It&#39;s incredible just how light this thing is.I mean, this is something you can pick up and carry with youanywhere you go.
时间： 3:27
zh-cn:我要告诉你们这个技术和这种的交通工具的最引人注目的事实之一。比起汽车来，它每英里或公里能节约20倍的能量，也就是说这个不仅充电快做起来也很便宜，就运输而言也减少了能量的消耗。所以不用找大量的能源来让每个人都有空间在市内活动，你可以关注耗能量更小和更持久的交通工具。
en:So I&#39;ll leave you with one of the most compelling factsabout this technology and these kinds of vehicles.This uses 20 times less energyfor every mile or kilometer that you travel than a car,which means not only is this thing fast to chargeand really cheap to build,but it also reduces the footprint of your energy usein terms of your transportation.So instead of looking at large amounts of energy neededfor each person in this room to get around in a city,now you can look at much smaller amountsand more sustainable transportation.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:所以，下次你要是考虑一种交通工具，希望，像我们这样，想点新奇的东西。
en:So next time you think about a vehicle,I hope, like us, you&#39;re thinking about something new.
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:谢谢大家！
en:Thank you.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
