时间： 0:12
zh-cn:当我怀上双胞胎3个月后，我和丈夫罗斯一起去做第二次超声波检查。
en:I was three months pregnant with twinswhen my husband Ross and Iwent to my second sonogram.
时间： 0:20
zh-cn:当时我35岁，我知道这意味着有很大风险我们的孩子会有先天缺陷。于是我跟罗斯了解了一下常见的先天缺陷，觉得自己已经准备好了。
en:I was 35 years old at the time,and I knew that that meantwe had a higher riskof having a child with a birth defect.So, Ross and I researchedthe standard birth defects,and we felt reasonably prepared.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:但我们万万没有想到，等待我们的是这样的结果。医生告诉我们其中一个孩子托马斯，患有一种致命的先天疾病叫大脑缺失症。他的大脑发育不完整，缺少一部分颅骨。患有这种疾病的婴儿一般无法出生，即使出生也会很快夭折。而另一个孩子，卡勒姆，根据医生的诊断，看起来很健康，但这两个孩子可是双胞胎啊，他们的基因完全相同。
en:Well, nothing would have prepared usfor the bizarre diagnosisthat we were about to face.The doctor explainedthat one of our twins, Thomas,had a fatal birth defectcalled anencephaly.This means that his brainwas not formed correctlybecause part of his skull was missing.Babies with this diagnosistypically die in uteroor within a few minutes, hoursor days of being born.But the other twin, Callum,appeared to be healthy,as far as the doctor could tell,and these twins were identical,genetically identical.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:为什么会这样，我们感到疑惑不解，我们讨论了选择性流产的方案，尽管有可能成功，但我和健康的那个孩子要冒很大风险，于是我们决定不做流产手术。这就是当时我的处境，怀孕三个月，还有六个月要等，我还要想办法控制自己的血压和心理压力。那感觉就像有一个人在你房间，整整六个月拿着一把上膛的枪对着你但我盯着枪口看了那么久居然从枪管的尽头看到了一丝曙光。既然悲剧已无法避免，我想让托马斯短暂的生命能产生些积极的影响。
en:So after a lot of questions abouthow this could have possibly happened,a selective reduction was mentioned,and while this procedurewas not impossible,it posed some unique risksfor the healthy twin and for me,so we decided to carrythe pregnancy to term.So there I was, three months pregnant,with two trimesters ahead of me,and I had to find a way to managemy blood pressure and my stress.And it felt like having a roommatepoint a loaded gun at you for six months.But I stared downthe barrel of that gun for so longthat I saw a lightat the end of the tunnel.While there was nothing we could doto prevent the tragedy,I wanted to find a wayfor Thomas&#39;s brief lifeto have some kind of positive impact.
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:于是我询问了护士关于器官捐赠的事情。她帮我联系了当地一家器官移植机构，“华盛顿地区器官移植联合体”。他们跟我解释说，托马斯太小了，他的器官不适合用来移植，我非常震惊：我根本没想过捐赠也能被拒绝。但他们告诉我，也许捐赠给研究机构会比较合适。这让我看到了新的希望。托马斯不仅仅是一名患者，还有可能成为一项医学奇迹的关键。
en:So I asked my nurse about organ,eye and tissue donation.She connected with our localorgan-procurement organization,the Washington RegionalTransplant Community.WRTC explained to methat Thomas would probably be too smallat birth to donate for transplant,and I was shocked:I didn&#39;t even knowyou could be rejected for that.But they said that he would bea good candidate to donate for research.This helped me see Thomas in a new light.As opposed to just a victim of a disease,I started to see him as a possible keyto unlock a medical mystery.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:2010年3月23日，两个孩子顺利出生了。正如医生诊断那样，托马斯头顶的颅骨缺了一块，但他照样能喝奶，用奶瓶喝，能像普通的宝宝一样抓我们的手指，躺在我们怀里睡觉。6天以后，托马斯在罗斯的怀中离开了我们，我们全家人都陪着他。
en:On March 23, 2010,the twins were born,and they were both born alive.And just like the doctor said,Thomas was missingthe top part of his skull,but he could nurse,drink from a bottle,cuddle and grab our fingerslike a normal baby,and he slept in our arms.After six days, Thomas died in Ross&#39;s armssurrounded by our family.
时间： 3:15
zh-cn:我们给WRTC打电话，他们派来一辆车，把托马斯带到了国家儿童医学中心。几个小时之后，我们接到电话，事情进展得很顺利，托马斯的器官被送到了四个不同的机构。他的脐带血被送到了杜克大学。他的肝脏被送到了达勒姆一家细胞治疗公司，叫Cytonet。他的角膜被送到了斯格本斯眼科研究院，从属于哈佛医学院，他的视网膜被送到了宾夕法尼亚大学。
en:We called WRTC, who sent a van to our homeand brought him to Children&#39;sNational Medical Center.A few hours later, we got a call to saythat the recovery was a success,and Thomas&#39;s donationswould be going to four different places.His cord blood would goto Duke University.His liver would go to a cell-therapycompany called Cytonet in Durham.His corneas would goto Schepens Eye Research Institute,which is part of Harvard Medical School,and his retinas would goto the University of Pennsylvania.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:几天后，我们举行了一个葬礼，只有直系亲属参加，包括小卡勒姆，我们几乎算是将这一段翻篇儿了。但我老是在想，事情怎么样了？那些学者们发现什么了吗？托马斯的遗体捐赠真的值得吗？
en:A few days later, we had a funeralwith our immediate family,including baby Callum,and we basicallyclosed this chapter in our lives.But I did find myself wondering,what&#39;s happening now?What are the researchers learning?And was it even worthwhile to donate?
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:WRTC邀请罗斯和我参加了一个互助会，见到了其他15个不幸的家庭，他们都将自己亲人的器官捐赠了出去。有些人甚至收到了信，来自那些接受捐赠的人，向他们表示感谢。我了解到他们甚至可以见面只要双方都签一份弃权声明，就像开放式领养一样。我非常兴奋，我觉得我也可以写信或者让他们给我写，来了解事情的进展。但后来我很失望，因为我了解到只有那些捐赠器官用于移植手术的人才能这么做。我很嫉妒。嫉妒那些器官移植的人。
en:WRTC invited Ross and Ito a grief retreat,and we met about15 other grieving familieswho had donated their loved one&#39;sorgans for transplant.Some of them had even received lettersfrom the people who receivedtheir loved one&#39;s organs,saying thank you.I learned that theycould even meet each otherif they&#39;d both sign a waiver,almost like an open adoption.And I was so excited,I thought maybe I could write a letteror I could get a letterand learn about what happened.But I was disappointed to learnthat this process only existsfor people who donate for transplant.So I was jealous.I had transplant envy, I guess.
时间： 4:45
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:但在接下来的几年里，我越来越了解器官捐赠，甚至在这领域找到了一份工作。
en:But over the years that followed,I learned a lot more about donation,and I even got a job in the field.
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:我有了一个念头。我写了一封邮件，开头是这样的，“亲爱的研究者，”我介绍了我自己，问他们可不可以告诉我，为什么在2010年3月的时候，需要新生儿的视网膜，我还请求带家人参观他们的实验室。我把这封邮件发给了当初安排捐赠的眼睛库，“弗吉尼亚眼睛基金会”，请他们把这封邮件转发给相关人员。他们说以前从未做过类似事情，不保证能得到回应，但他们会帮我把邮件转发出去。
en:And I came up with an idea.I wrote a letter that started out,&quot;Dear Researcher.&quot;I explained who I was,and I asked if they could tell mewhy they requested infant retinasin March of 2010,and I asked if my familycould visit their lab.I emailed it to the eye bankthat arranged the donation,the Old Dominion Eye Foundation,and asked if they couldsend it to the right person.They said that they hadnever done this before,and they couldn&#39;t guarantee a response,but they wouldn&#39;t be an obstacle,and they would deliver it.
时间： 5:29
zh-cn:两天后，我收到了回应，来自宾夕法尼亚大学的阿鲁帕•甘古丽博士。她对我们的捐赠表示感谢，她说自己在研究视网膜母细胞瘤，那是一种致命的视网膜肿瘤，主要影响5岁以下的孩子，而且她同意邀请我们参观她的实验室。
en:Two days later, I got a responsefrom Dr. Arupa Gangulyof the University of Pennsylvania.She thanked me for the donation,and she explainedthat she is studying retinoblastoma,which is a deadly cancer of the retinathat affects childrenunder the age of five,and she said that yes,we were invited to visit her lab.
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:之后我们通了电话，她对我说的第一件事就是她无法想象我们经历了什么，托马斯做出了巨大的牺牲，她觉得自己亏欠我们很多。我说，“并不是针对你的研究，但真的不是我们自己选的。我们只是进行了捐赠，是系统选择了你的研究。”我说，“而且，每天都有许多孩子经历不幸，如果你们不用这些视网膜，它们也不过是长埋于地下。因此，能够参与你们的研究，也算是托马斯生命的另一层意义。所以，千万不要觉得亏欠我们。”
en:So next we talked on the phone,and one of the first things she said to mewas that she couldn&#39;t possiblyimagine how we felt,and that Thomas had giventhe ultimate sacrifice,and that she seemedto feel indebted to us.So I said, &quot;Nothing against your study,but we didn&#39;t actually pick it.We donated to the system,and the system chose your study.I said, &quot;And second of all,bad things happen to children every day,and if you didn&#39;t want these retinas,they would probablybe buried in the ground right now.So to be able to participate in your studygives Thomas&#39;s lifea new layer of meaning.So, never feel guiltyabout using this tissue.&quot;
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:之后，她向我解释一切发生得太巧。她在6年前就向“国家疾病研究交流中心”提交了视网膜需求申请。而她收到的唯一符合标准的样本，就来自托马斯。
en:Next, she explained to me how rare it was.She had placed a requestfor this tissue six years earlierwith the National DiseaseResearch Interchange.She got only one sample of tissuethat fit her criteria,and it was Thomas&#39;s.
时间： 6:43
zh-cn:随后，我们需要确定参观实验室的时间，我们选择了2015年3月23日，就在双胞胎5岁生日当天。打完电话，我给她发了托马斯和卡勒姆的照片，几周后，我们收到了他们寄来的T恤。
en:Next, we arranged a date for meto come visit the lab,and we chose March 23, 2015,which was the twins&#39; fifth birthday.After we hung up, I emailed hersome pictures of Thomas and Callum,and a few weeks later,we received this T-shirt in the mail.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:几个月后，罗斯、卡勒姆和我收拾行装，开车上路。我们见到了阿鲁帕和她的团队，阿鲁帕说，当我告诉她不要觉得亏欠时她真的松了一口气，她以前从来没有像我们一样来看这件事。她还告诉我们托马斯有一个秘密代号。就像亨瑞艾塔•拉克丝被称为“海拉”一样，托马斯被称作RES 360。RES是指“研究”，360是指他是整个项目进行10年来第360个样本。
en:A few months later, Ross, Callumand I piled in the carand we went for a road trip.We met Arupa and her staff,and Arupa said that when I told hernot to feel guilty, that it was a relief,and that she hadn&#39;t seen itfrom our perspective.She also explained that Thomashad a secret code name.The same way Henrietta Lacksis called HeLa,Thomas was called RES 360.RES means research,and 360 means he was the 360th specimenover the course of about 10 years.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:她还给我们展示了一份独特的文件，是当年的运输标签，把托马斯的视网膜从华盛顿运到费城。这个运输标签现在成了我们的传家宝。它的意义就如军功章或者结婚证一般。
en:She also shared with us a unique document,and it was the shipping labelthat sent his retinasfrom DC to Philadelphia.This shipping labelis like an heirloom to us now.It&#39;s the same way that a military medalor a wedding certificate might be.
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:阿鲁帕还告诉我们，她利用托马斯的视网膜和RNA试图让形成肿瘤的基因失活，她还展示了根据RES 360得到的一些研究成果。然后她把我们带到冷冻柜前，给我们看她依然保存的两个样本，上面的标签写着RES 360。那是两份很小的样本。她说之所以保存它们是因为她不知道什么时候能再找到合适的样本。随后我们来到会议室，休息了一会，一起吃午饭，实验室工作人员送给卡勒姆一份生日礼物。是一套儿童试验装备。他们还给了他一个实习的机会。
en:Arupa also explained that she is usingThomas&#39;s retina and his RNAto try to inactivate the genethat causes tumor formation,and she even showed us some resultsthat were based on RES 360.Then she took us to the freezerand she showed us the two samplesthat she still hasthat are still labeled RES 360.There&#39;s two little ones left.She said she saved itbecause she doesn&#39;t knowwhen she might get more.After this, we went to the conference roomand we relaxed and we had lunch together,and the lab staff presented Callumwith a birthday gift.It was a child&#39;s lab kit.And they also offered him an internship.
时间： 8:37
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:最后，我想传递两个简单的信息。第一，我们大部分人可能从未想过捐赠器官用于研究。因为我以前就没想过，我也是个普通人。但我这样做了。这是一次不错的经历我建议你们也试试，它给我的家庭带来了平静。第二，如果你从事人体器官研究，考虑一下捐赠者和他们的家庭，联系一下他们。告诉他们你收到了捐赠，介绍一下你的工作，请他们你的实验室看一看，你因此得到的满足可能比他们还多。我还想请你们帮个忙。如果你成功安排了这么一次参观，请发邮件告诉我。
en:So in closing, I have twosimple messages today.One is that most of us probablydon&#39;t think about donating to research.I know I didn&#39;t.I think I&#39;m a normal person.But I did it.It was a good experience,and I recommend it,and it brought my family a lot of peace.And second is if you workwith human tissueand you wonder about the donorand about the family,write them a letter.Tell them you received it,tell them what you&#39;re working on,and invite them to visit your lab,because that visit may beeven more gratifying for youthan it is for them.And I&#39;d also like to ask you a favor.If you&#39;re ever successfulin arranging one of these visits,please tell me about it.
时间： 9:19
zh-cn:关于我家故事的结尾就是我们参观了全部四家接受了托马斯器官捐赠的机构。我们见到了许多了不起的人，他们在做了不起的事。我现在认为托马斯考入了哈佛大学，杜克大学和宾州大学。
en:The other part of my family&#39;s storyis that we ended up visitingall four facilitiesthat received Thomas&#39;s donations.And we met amazing peopledoing inspiring work.The way I see it nowis that Thomas got into Harvard,Duke and Penn —
时间： 9:36
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 9:39
zh-cn:他在Cytonet找到了工作，他有很多同事，都是本领域的顶尖人才。他们的工作都离不开托马斯。一个原本看起来短暂而微不足道的生命变得重要、永恒和充满意义。我只希望我的一生也能过得有意义。
en:And he has a job at Cytonet,and he has colleagues and he has coworkerswho are in the top of their fields.And they need himin order to do their job.And a life that once seemedbrief and insignificantrevealed itself to be vital,everlasting and relevant.And I only hope that my lifecan be as relevant.
时间：10:04
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：10:05
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
