时间： 0:12
zh-cn:在1911年七月，一名35岁的耶鲁毕业生兼教授和他的团队一起从雨林营地出发。翻越了陡峭的山丘，擦去额头的滴滴汗珠后，他描述了他的俯视所见。透过浓密的雨林树叶，他看到了这不可思议的如迷宫般交错连锁的结构，它们由花岗岩建成，美丽地交织在一起。
en:In July of 1911,a 35-year-old Yale graduate and professorset out from his rainforest campwith his team.After climbing a steep hilland wiping the sweat from his brow,he described what he saw beneath him.He saw rising fromthe dense rainforest foliagethis incredible interlockingmaze of structuresbuilt of granite,beautifully put together.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:该项目的独特之处在于它是国家地理投资的第一个项目，同时在1912年受宠地登上了该杂志的封面。这位教授使用了最先进的摄影器材来记录这令人难忘的遗址，就此改变了探索的面貌。
en:What&#39;s amazing about this projectis that it was the first fundedby National Geographic,and it graced the front coverof its magazine in 1912.This professor used state-of-the-artphotography equipmentto record the site,forever changing the face of exploration.
时间： 0:59
zh-cn:这一地点叫马丘比丘，（古代印加城遗址）由海拉姆·宾厄姆发现并加以探索。当他见到了这个地方，他问道“这是难以实现的梦想。它将是什么呢？”
en:The site was Machu Picchu,discovered and explored by Hiram Bingham.When he saw the site, he asked,&quot;This is an impossible dream.What could it be?&quot;
时间： 1:13
zh-cn:所以100年后的今天，我作为一名37岁的耶鲁毕业生兼教授，邀请你们和我一同踏上这奇迹般的旅途。
en:So today,100 years later,I invite you allon an incredible journey with me,a 37-year-old Yale graduate and professor.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:（欢呼声）
en:(Cheers)
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:我们将会使用最先进的科技来，描绘出国家的全貌。这一梦想是由海拉姆·宾厄姆来编织的，但我们将把这梦想撒向全世界。使得考古勘探更加包容开放，达到了未曾企及的高度。
en:We will do nothing lessthan use state-of-the-art technologyto map an entire country.This is a dream started by Hiram Bingham,but we are expanding it to the world,making archaeological explorationmore open, inclusive,and at a scale simplynot previously possible.
时间： 1:50
zh-cn:因此我是那么激动，迫不及待想要与你共享，我们将在拉丁美洲开展2016TED奖金平台，特别是在秘鲁。
en:This is why I am so excitedto share with you all todaythat we will beginthe 2016 TED Prize platformin Latin America,more specifically Peru.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 2:07
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 2:12
zh-cn:海拉姆·宾厄姆未完成的梦想，由我们为其实现，将它转变成属于我们的大家共享的美好的未来。
en:We will be takingHiram Bingham&#39;s impossible dreamand turning it into an amazing futurethat we can all share in together.
时间： 2:22
zh-cn:秘鲁绝不仅有马丘比丘。它拥有美妙绝伦的珠宝，就像你所见到的一般。它拥有难以置信的人体陶像。它拥有宛若神迹的纳斯卡线条，还有令人称奇的纺织品。作为TED奖金平台的一部分，我们将携手与一些大型组织合作，其中第一家是数字地球，全球最大的高分辨率商业卫星图像提供商。他们将帮助我们扩建他们已有的伟大众包平台。也许你们有人用它来研究MH370事件并找寻消失的机体。当然了，他们也会给我们提供卫星图像。国家地理将在教育和探索方面给予帮助。同时，他们将为我们的平台提供丰富的内容资源，包括一些你们开头看到的档案图像以及他们一些纪录片的连续镜头。我们已经着手平台的建设与计划而我早已激动难耐。
en:So Peru doesn&#39;t just have Machu Picchu.It has absolutely stunning jewelry,like what you can see here.It has amazing Moche potteryof human figures.It has the Nazca Linesand amazing textiles.So as part of the TED Prize platform,we are going to partneringwith some incredible organizations,first of all with DigitalGlobe,the world&#39;s largest providerof high-resolutioncommercial satellite imagery.They&#39;re going to be helping us build outthis amazing crowdsourcingplatform they have.Maybe some of you used itwith the MH370 crashand search for the airplane.Of course, they&#39;ll also be providing uswith the satellite imagery.National Geographic will be helping uswith education and of course exploration.As well, they&#39;ll be providing uswith rich content for the platform,including some of the archival imagerylike you saw at the beginning of this talkand some of their documentary footage.We&#39;ve already begunto build and plan the platform,and I&#39;m just so excited.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:接下来是极棒的部分。由蔡斯·蔡尔兹带领的我们团队，已经开始着眼于部分卫星图像。当然你能看到的是0.3米长的资料。这一地点位于秘鲁北部，名叫昌昌古城。它的历史追溯到公元850年。它是座神奇的城市,但让我们再放大观察。这是你们都会见到的资料。你会见到独特的结构，独特的建筑。我们已经开始找寻掩埋在历史中的那些未知地点。我们可以保证的是作为平台的一部分，你们会为发现数以万计的未知地点献出自己的一份力，就像这里的这一处，在这里也许有一处规模巨大的古城。令人痛心的是，我们也逐渐发掘出这些古城中遗落的大量宝物，就像你看见的这样。秘鲁的许多古城正面临着威胁。值得庆幸的是，所有的这些资料将会与前线的考古专家共享，来保护这些古城。
en:So here&#39;s the cool part.My team, headed up by Chase Childs,is already beginning to lookat some of the satellite imagery.Of course, what you can see hereis 0.3-meter data.This is site called Chan Chanin northern Peru.It dates to 850 AD.It&#39;s a really amazing city,but let&#39;s zoom in.This is the type and quality of datathat you all will get to see.You can see individual structures,individual buildings.And we&#39;ve already begunto find previously unknown sites.What we can say alreadyis that as part of the platform,you will all help discoverthousands of previously unknown sites,like this one here,and this potentially large one here.Unfortunately, we&#39;ve also begunto uncover large-scale looting at sites,like what you see here.So many sites in Peru are threatened,but the great partis that all of this datais going to be sharedwith archaeologists on the front linesof protecting these sites.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:不久前，我来到了秘鲁，与文化部部长会面，也和联合国教科文组织交流。我们将会和他们进行紧密的合作。所以你们都会知道，该地将会使用英语和西班牙语两种语言，这样就确保了秘鲁以及拉丁美洲的人们也可以加入到我们的计划。我们主项目的合作主要调查者是你们见到的这位路易斯·杰米·卡斯蒂略博士，是天主教大学的教授。作为一位令人尊敬的秘鲁考古学家，同时也是前任副部长，卡斯蒂略博士将帮助我们与考古学家们进行协同合作与资源共享所以他们能够对地面上这些古城进行探索。他同时管理着无人机测绘地图工程，你们能看到我身后的一些图片，这儿，还有这儿。这些数据将会收录到平台内部，同时他也会帮助反映你们发现的一些新地点。
en:So I was just in Peru,meeting with their Minister of Cultureas well as UNESCO.We&#39;ll be collaborating closely with them.Just so you all know,the site is going to bein both English and Spanish,which is absolutely essential to make surethat people in Peru and acrossLatin America can participate.Our main project coprincipal investigatoris the gentleman you see here,Dr. Luis Jaime Castillo,professor at Catholic University.As a respected Peruvian archaeologistand former vice-minister,Dr. Castillo will be helping us coordinateand share the data with archaeologistsso they can explorethese sites on the ground.He also runs this amazingdrone mapping program,some of the images of whichyou can see behind me here and here.And this data will be incorporatedinto the platform,and also he&#39;ll be helping to imagesome of the new sites you help find.
时间： 5:07
zh-cn:我们的地上合作伙伴，通过教育帮助我们并加以扩展，同时包括旧址保存的要素，是可持续性主动保存计划（SPI），由拉里·科本博士领导。也许你们没意识到世界上最贫穷的一些社区和平地生活在世界上最著名的遗迹。SPI的作用是帮助这些社区摆脱困境，尤其是其中的女性，通过经济学新方法和进行商业训练。我们可以教她们制作精美的手工艺品，然后把它们卖给当地的旅客。这增强了妇女们对她们的文化遗产的自豪与珍重，并真正地享用其文化遗产。我有幸与24位女性共度时光，在著名的考古遗迹帕查卡马克，就在利马外部。这些女性受到了启发，茅塞顿开。极棒的是SPI帮助我们改变一些你帮忙发现的旧址边的社区。
en:Our on-the-ground partnerwho will be helping uswith education, outreach,as well as site preservation components,is the SustainablePreservation Initiative,led by Dr. Larry Coben.Some of you may not be awarethat some of the world&#39;spoorest communitiescoexist with some of the world&#39;smost well-known archaeological sites.What SPI doesis it helps to empower these communities,in particular women,with new economic approachesand business training.So it helps to teach themto create beautiful handicraftswhich are then sold on to tourists.This empowers the womento treasure their cultural heritageand take ownership of it.I had the opportunity to spend some timewith 24 of these womenat a well-known archaeological sitecalled Pachacamac, just outside Lima.These women were unbelievably inspiring,and what&#39;s great is that SPIwill help us transform communitiesnear some of the sitesthat you help to discover.
时间： 6:03
zh-cn:秘鲁只是一个起点。我们将这一平台拓展到全世界，我已经收到了数以万计的电子邮件，来自全世界的人们——教授，教育学者，学生，还有其他考古学家他们都迫不及待想要参与。实际上，他们已经推荐了神奇的地方帮助我们探索发现，包括亚特兰蒂斯。我不确定我们是否会寻找传说中的亚特兰蒂斯，但谁知道呢。
en:Peru is just the beginning.We&#39;re going to be expandingthis platform to the world,but already I&#39;ve gottenthousands of emailsfrom people all across the world —professors, educators, students,and other archaeologists —who are so excited to help participate.In fact, they&#39;re already suggestingamazing places for us to help discover,including Atlantis.I don&#39;t know if we&#39;re goingto be looking for Atlantis,but you never know.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:启动这一平台就让我激动不已。它将会在年底正式启动。我要说如果我的团队在过去几周的发现有任何的迹象，那么全世界的发现将超乎我们的想象。握紧你手中的羊驼毛。
en:So I&#39;m just so excitedto launch this platform.It&#39;s going to be launched formallyby the end of the year.And I have to say,if what my team has already discoveredin the past few weeks are any indication,what the world discoversis just going to be beyond imagination.Make sure to hold on to your alpacas.
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:非常感谢你们的支持。
en:Thank you very much.
时间： 6:50
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 6:52
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 6:53
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
