时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想告诉你们一些针对外星生命所展开的真实的探索行动。不过不是那些通过UFO抵达这里的绿色小人儿，当然这样很不错。不过是关于寻找外太空围绕恒星运行的行星。
en:I&#39;m here to tell youabout the real search for alien life.Not little green humanoidsarriving in shiny UFOs,although that would be nice.But it&#39;s the search for planetsorbiting stars far away.
时间： 0:24
zh-cn:我们天空中的每一颗恒星都是太阳。如果说太阳有围绕它的行星——水星，金星，地球，火星，等等，当然其他的恒星周围也应该有行星，而且它们的确有。在过去的20多年中，天文学家已经找到了数千个系外行星。
en:Every star in our sky is a sun.And if our sun has planets —Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, etc.,surely those other starsshould have planets also,and they do.And in the last two decades,astronomers have foundthousands of exoplanets.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:我们的夜空的确遍布着系外行星。从统计学的角度来说，我们知道每一个恒星都拥有至少一颗行星。在搜索行星的过程中，在未来搜索像地球这样的行星，可以帮助我们回答一些最不可思议又充满神秘的问题，这些问题已经困扰了全人类几个世纪。我们为什么会存在？为什么我们的宇宙会存在？地球是如何形成和演化的？生命如何以及为什么会诞生并在这个星球上繁衍？我们经常思考的第二个问题是：我们是唯一存在的生命吗？外太空中还有其他生命吗？其他生命是什么样子呢？这个问题已经存在了几千年，至少在古希腊哲学家的时代就已经存在了。但是我今天想要告诉你们，我们已经非常接近这个问题的答案了。这是人类历史上第一次对这个答案触手可及。
en:Our night sky is literallyteeming with exoplanets.We know, statistically speaking,that every star has at least one planet.And in the search for planets,and in the future,planets that might be like Earth,we&#39;re able to help addresssome of the most amazingand mysterious questionsthat have faced humankind for centuries.Why are we here?Why does our universe exist?How did Earth form and evolve?How and why did life originateand populate our planet?The second questionthat we often think about is:Are we alone?Is there life out there?Who is out there?You know, this question has been aroundfor thousands of years,since at least the timeof the Greek philosophers.But I&#39;m here to tell youjust how close we&#39;re gettingto finding out the answerto this question.It&#39;s the first time in human historythat this really is within reach for us.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:当我想到外太空存在生命的可能性，我就想到了我们的太阳只是若干恒星中的一颗。这是一个真实的星系的照片，我们认为我们的银河系差不多就是这一个样子。其中聚集了很多彼此紧密联系的恒星。但我们的（太阳）只是千亿颗恒星中的一颗，我们的银河系也是千亿个星系中的一个。小行星更是不计其数，可以做一下粗略的计算。宇宙中的星球真的是太多太多了，一定还会有其他生命存在。不过生物学家们极其不赞同这种说法，因为我们毕竟还没有任何相关的证据。
en:Now when I think about the possibilitiesfor life out there,I think of the fact that our sunis but one of many stars.This is a photograph of a real galaxy,we think our Milky Waylooks like this galaxy.It&#39;s a collection of bound stars.But our [sun] is oneof hundreds of billions of starsand our galaxy is one of upwardsof hundreds of billions of galaxies.Knowing that small planetsare very common,you can just do the math.And there are just so many starsand so many planets out there,that surely, there must be lifesomewhere out there.Well, the biologists get furiouswith me for saying that,because we have absolutely no evidencefor life beyond Earth yet.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:假设能够从外太空观测我们所在的星系，并聚焦到太阳，我们就会看到一幅恒星的分布图。那些被突出标注的恒星都有已知的系外行星。这张图展现的仅仅是冰山一角而已。这个动画突出展示了我们的太阳系。你们可以看到一些行星和宇宙飞船，它们都在围绕着我们的太阳运行。假设我们在北美洲的西海岸仰望夜空，这就是我们在一个春季的夜晚能够看到的景象。你们可以看到星座的交替，还有很多带有行星的恒星。天空里有一个区域密布着数千颗行星。
en:Well, if we were able to lookat our galaxy from the outsideand zoom in to where our sun is,we see a real map of the stars.And the highlighted starsare those with known exoplanets.This is really justthe tip of the iceberg.Here, this animation is zooming inonto our solar system.And you&#39;ll see here the planetsas well as some spacecraftthat are also orbiting our sun.Now if we can imagine goingto the West Coast of North America,and looking out at the night sky,here&#39;s what we&#39;d see on a spring night.And you can seethe constellations overlaidand again, so many stars with planets.There&#39;s a special patch of the skywhere we have thousands of planets.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:开普勒太空望远镜在这里聚焦了很多年。我们再继续放大，看一下其中一个比较有名的系外行星。这颗行星叫开普勒-186f。这个系统中有大约5个行星。这里要提一下，这其中大多数的系外行星我们都不太了解。我们只知道它们的大小，轨道之类的信息。不过开普勒-186f非常特殊。它处在一个距离恒星并不太远的区域内，这就意味着那里的温度可能非常适宜物种生存。这里我们强化了艺术效果，想要给大家展示一下这个行星可能的形貌。
en:This is where the Kepler Space Telescopefocused for many years.Let&#39;s zoom in and lookat one of the favorite exoplanets.This star is called Kepler-186f.It&#39;s a system of about five planets.And by the way, most of these exoplanets,we don&#39;t know too much about.We know their size, and their orbitand things like that.But there&#39;s a very special planethere called Kepler-186f.This planet is in a zonethat is not too far from the star,so that the temperaturemay be just right for life.Here, the artist&#39;s conceptionis just zooming inand showing you what that planetmight be like.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:或许很多人都会带着一种浪漫的想象，觉得天文学家们都是在孤寂的山顶，通过巨大的望远镜来观察绚丽多彩的夜空的。不过事实上，我们只是在计算机上操作，跟其他人没什么两样，我们通过邮件或者数据库下载数据。所以，与其说我是来告诉大家数据本身和数据分析有多么枯燥，我们的计算机模型有多么复杂，不如说我想以一种不同的方式给大家展示我们对系外行星的一些看法和思考。
en:So, many people have thisromantic notion of astronomersgoing to the telescopeon a lonely mountaintopand looking at the spectacular night skythrough a big telescope.But actually, we just workon our computers like everyone else,and we get our data by emailor downloading from a database.So instead of coming here to tell youabout the somewhat tedious natureof the data and data analysisand the complex computer models we make,I have a different wayto try to explain to yousome of the thingsthat we&#39;re thinking about exoplanets.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:这里有一张旅行海报：&quot;开普勒-186f：一边的草总是比另一边更红。“这是因为开普勒-186f围绕着一颗红色的恒星运行，我们只是猜测那上面的植物，假设有可以进行光合作用的植物，那些植物就会含有不同的色素，让它们看起来是红色。”享受HD 40307g上面的重力吧，这里是超级地球。“这颗行星比地球的质量要大，拥有更大的表面重力。”来开普勒-16b上放松一下吧，你的影子永远不会孤单。“（笑声）据我们所知，有数十个行星都是围绕着两颗恒星运行，估计还会有更多。如果我们可以探访其中一颗行星，你确实可以看到两次日落，并同时形成两个影子。事实上，科幻小说中的一些描述是正确的。比如《星球大战》中的塔图因。还有一些其他的系外星球，我也想给大家介绍一下。这个叫做开普勒-10b，它的温度极高。它的运行轨道距离其围绕的恒星只有地球和太阳距离的五十分之一。正是因为它的温度太高，我们无法探访任何这样的行星，即便我们试图接近它，在到达那里之前也早就熔化了。我们认为它的地表温度足够熔化岩石，能够形成液态的岩浆湖。
en:Here&#39;s a travel poster:&quot;Kepler-186f:Where the grass is always redderon the other side.&quot;That&#39;s because Kepler-186forbits a red star,and we&#39;re just speculatingthat perhaps the plants there,if there is vegetationthat does photosynthesis,it has different pigments and looks red.&quot;Enjoy the gravity on HD 40307g,a Super-Earth.&quot;This planet is more massive than Earthand has a higher surface gravity.&quot;Relax on Kepler-16b,where your shadow always has company.&quot;(Laughter)We know of a dozen planetsthat orbit two stars,and there&#39;s likely many more out there.If we could visit one of those planets,you literally would see two sunsetsand have two shadows.So actually, science fictiongot some things right.Tatooine from Star Wars.And I have a couple of otherfavorite exoplanetsto tell you about.This one is Kepler-10b,it&#39;s a hot, hot planet.It orbits over 50 times closer to its starthan our Earth does to our sun.And actually, it&#39;s so hot,we can&#39;t visit anyof these planets, but if we could,we would melt long before we got there.We think the surfaceis hot enough to melt rockand has liquid lava lakes.
时间： 5:30
zh-cn:格利泽1214b。我们已经知道了这颗行星的质量和体积，它的密度比较低。温度也不算太高。但我们对它的了解也仅限于此，不过它上面可能有水存在，有点像木星的一颗放大版的遍布冰雪的卫星，其水含量可能占据了质量的50%。在这种情况下，它就有可能覆盖了一层很厚的蒸汽大气层，就在海洋的上空，不过海里不是液态水，而是一种奇特状态的水，一种超流体——不算是气体，也不算是液体。其下遍布的也不是岩石，而是一种高压状态的冰，类似于冰IX（冰九，拥有某种晶体结构的冰。——译注）。
en:Gliese 1214b.This planet, we know the mass and the sizeand it has a fairly low density.It&#39;s somewhat warm.We actually don&#39;t knowreally anything about this planet,but one possibilityis that it&#39;s a water world,like a scaled-up versionof one of Jupiter&#39;s icy moonsthat might be 50 percent water by mass.And in this case, it would havea thick steam atmosphereoverlaying an ocean,not of liquid water,but of an exotic formof water, a superfluid —not quite a gas, not quite a liquid.And under that wouldn&#39;t be rock,but a form of high-pressure ice,like ice IX.
时间： 6:05
zh-cn:除了这些多样性已经让我们感到惊讶的行星以外，我们最想找到的是我们称作”古迪洛克行星“的星球。体积不大不小，温度不高不低——刚刚好适宜物种生存。不过要做到这一点，我们需要能够检测到这个行星的大气层，因为大气层就像一块保温毯——具有温室效应。我们需要监测到其他行星上的温室气体。从这一点来说，科幻小说就显得不那么真实了。《进取号》（剧情设定在《星际旅行》的宇宙中）需要以极高速度旅行很长的距离到达其它行星并环绕飞行，这样史波克大副才能分析大气层的成分，从而判断该行星是否适宜居住，或者那上面是否有生命存活。
en:So out of all these planets out there,and the varietyis just simply astonishing,we mostly want to find the planetsthat are Goldilocks planets, we call them.Not too big, not too small,not too hot, not too cold —but just right for life.But to do that,we&#39;d have to be able to lookat the planet&#39;s atmosphere,because the atmosphereacts like a blanket trapping heat —the greenhouse effect.We have to be able to assessthe greenhouse gaseson other planets.Well, science fictiongot some things wrong.The Star Trek Enterprisehad to travel vast distancesat incredible speedsto orbit other planetsso that First Officer Spockcould analyze the atmosphereto see if the planet was habitableor if there were lifeforms there.
时间： 6:51
zh-cn:不过我们并不需要以极限高速行驶来获取其他行星上的大气数据，当然我并不想打击那些跃跃欲试想要实现这项工作的工程师们的积极性。我们其实可以直接在地球的轨道范围内研究那些大气层。这是一张由亚特兰蒂斯航天飞机拍摄的哈勃太空望远镜的照片，这架航天飞机出发时，最后一次前往哈勃的载人太空飞行已经完成。他们在飞机上安装了一个新的照相机，可以采集系外行星的大气数据。目前，我们已经能够研究数十个系外行星的大气层，其中有6个我们可以得到非常详细的数据。不过那些都不是像地球这样的小行星。它们非常庞大，温度很高，很容易观测到。我们还没准备好，还不具备研究小型系外星球的技术。不过尽管如此，我还是想跟大家解释一下我们是如何研究系外行星大气的。
en:Well, we don&#39;t needto travel at warp speedsto see other planet atmospheres,although I don&#39;t want to dissuadeany budding engineersfrom figuring out how to do that.We actually can and do studyplanet atmospheresfrom here, from Earth orbit.This is a picture, a photographof the Hubble Space Telescopetaken by the shuttle Atlantisas it was departingafter the lasthuman space flight to Hubble.They installed a new camera, actually,that we use for exoplanet atmospheres.And so far, we&#39;ve been able to studydozens of exoplanet atmospheres,about six of them in great detail.But those are notsmall planets like Earth.They&#39;re big, hot planetsthat are easy to see.We&#39;re not ready,we don&#39;t have the right technology yetto study small exoplanets.But nevertheless,I wanted to try to explain to youhow we study exoplanet atmospheres.
时间： 7:40
zh-cn:大家可以想象一下彩虹。如果我们可以近距离观察彩虹，就能发现一些暗色的线缺失了。这是我们的太阳，白色的光被分解了，不是被雨滴，而是被光谱仪分解了。我们可以看到所有这些暗色的竖线。有的很窄，有的很宽，有的边缘很模糊。这实际上就是过去的一个多世纪以来，宇航员们研究太空物质的方式。在这张图中，每种原子和分子都有一组特殊的谱线，你们可以把它当做一种指纹信息。我们就是利用这些信息研究系外行星的大气成分的。我永远也忘不了在20年前刚刚开始研究系外行星大气的时候，多少人告诉我，”这根本行不通。我们永远也不可能做到。干嘛白费功夫呢？“这也是为什么我很高兴的告诉你们目前所有的关于大气的研究，已经完全自成体系了。那么对于那些在将来我们可以观测到的其他行星，那些类地行星，我们需要寻找哪些气体呢？大家都知道，我们地球上的大气含有20%体积的氧气。这个含量是很高的。不过没有植物和其它光合生物，大气中就不会有氧气，事实上连一丁点儿都不会有。所以氧气的出现是因为生命的存在。所以我们的目标就是要找到其他行星的大气中原本并不应该存在的气体，或许可以归功于生命的存在。那么哪些分子是我们需要寻找的呢？我已经告诉过你们系外行星的种类有多么繁杂了。在我们寻找类地行星的过程中，一定还会有更多种类的外行星出现。
en:I want you to imagine,for a moment, a rainbow.And if we could lookat this rainbow closely,we would see that somedark lines are missing.And here&#39;s our sun,the white light of our sun split up,not by raindrops, but by a spectrograph.And you can seeall these dark, vertical lines.Some are very narrow, some are wide,some are shaded at the edges.And this is actually how astronomershave studied objects in the heavens,literally, for over a century.So here, each different atom and moleculehas a special set of lines,a fingerprint, if you will.And that&#39;s how we studyexoplanet atmospheres.And I&#39;ll just never forgetwhen I started workingon exoplanet atmospheres 20 years ago,how many people told me,&quot;This will never happen.We&#39;ll never be able to study them.Why are you bothering?&quot;And that&#39;s why I&#39;m pleased to tell youabout all the atmospheres studied now,and this is really a field of its own.So when it comes toother planets, other Earths,in the future when we can observe them,what kind of gaseswould we be looking for?Well, you know, our own Earthhas oxygen in the atmosphereto 20 percent by volume.That&#39;s a lot of oxygen.But without plantsand photosynthetic life,there would be no oxygen,virtually no oxygen in our atmosphere.So oxygen is here because of life.And our goal then is to look for gasesin other planet atmospheres,gases that don&#39;t belong,that we might be ableto attribute to life.But which molecules should we search for?I actually told youhow diverse exoplanets are.We expect that to continue in the futurewhen we find other Earths.
时间： 9:09
zh-cn:这就是我目前正在从事的主要工作之一，对此我有一番自己的理论。这倒是提醒我了，几乎每天我都会收到一封或者很多封电子邮件，发件人都对重力或者宇宙物理学提出了自己疯狂的理论。不过，在此还是想提醒大家，请不要再给我发这种邮件了。（笑声）我有一套自己的疯狂理论。那么麻省理工的教授要跟谁探讨呢？我曾经给一名诺贝尔生理学或医学的获奖者发过邮件，他说，”听上去还不错，过来我们讨论一下吧。“于是我就带上了两个生物化学领域的朋友，跟他介绍了一下我们的疯狂理论。那个理论就是，生命制造了所有的小分子，不计其数的小分子。几乎是作为一个非化学领域专家，我能想到的所有分子。比方说：二氧化碳，一氧化碳，氢分子，氮分子，甲烷，氯甲烷——太多太多了。它们之所以存在也有很多其他的原因，不过单单是生命，甚至就可以产生臭氧。于是我们去跟他讨论了这套观点，结果很快就被他否决了。他找到了一个并不存在的气体的例子。于是我们只好回去继续推导，我们认为我们已经找到了一些在其他领域中很有意思的东西。
en:And that&#39;s one of the main thingsI&#39;m working on now,I have a theory about this.It reminds me that nearly every day,I receive an email or emailsfrom someone with a crazy theoryabout physics of gravityor cosmology or some such.So, please don&#39;t email meone of your crazy theories.(Laughter)Well, I had my own crazy theory.But, who does the MIT professor go to?Well, I emailed a Nobel Laureatein Physiology or Medicineand he said, &quot;Sure, come and talk to me.&quot;So I brought my two biochemistry friendsand we went to talk to himabout our crazy theory.And that theory was that lifeproduces all small molecules,so many molecules.Like, everything I could think of,but not being a chemist.Think about it:carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide,molecular hydrogen, molecular nitrogen,methane, methyl chloride —so many gases.They also exist for other reasons,but just life even produces ozone.So we go to talk to him about this,and immediately, he shot down the theory.He found an example that didn&#39;t exist.So, we went back to the drawing boardand we think we have found somethingvery interesting in another field.
时间：10:16
zh-cn:回到系外行星这个话题，重点是生命制造了这么多种气体，差不多几千种。我们现在的任务就是试图找出哪些种类的系外行星上的哪些气体可能是由生命制造出来的。所以当我们在系外行星的大气中找到了那些气体，我们很难确定这些气体是怎么来的，是由外星人制造的，还是来自树木，或者沼泽地，或者仅仅是来源于简单的单细胞生物。
en:But back to exoplanets,the point is that life producesso many different types of gases,literally thousands of gases.And so what we&#39;re doing nowis just trying to figure outon which types of exoplanets,which gases could be attributed to life.And so when it comes timewhen we find gasesin exoplanet atmospheresthat we won&#39;t knowif they&#39;re being producedby intelligent aliens or by trees,or a swamp,or even just by simple,single-celled microbial life.
时间：10:46
zh-cn:所以建立一些模型，应用一些生物化学的知识，我们就会得到我们想要的答案。那么在实际过程中面临的最大挑战就是：要怎么做？要怎么找到这些行星？其实可以通过很多方式来寻找，各种不同的方式。不过我重点在研究的是要如何实现这样一个途径，在未来可以让我们找到数百个类地行星。我们事实上已经开始行动了。我刚刚完成了一个由我负责的两年项目，在这个特殊的项目中，我们提出了”遮星板“的概念。遮星板是一个形状非常特殊的屏障，我们想要将它送入太空，遮挡恒星的光线，这样就可以通过望远镜直接观测那些行星了。这张图上你们可以看到我和两名项目成员，正在展示遮星板的一块很小的局部。它的形状就像一个巨大的花朵，这是一片花瓣的雏形。这个过程就是把遮星板和望远镜一同送入太空，遮星板的花瓣会从运载器上打开。中心的桁架会展开，花瓣也会迅速延展到位。这个过程需要做到非常精准，也就是说花瓣的精度要达到微米级，定位的精准度要达到毫米级。这一整个部件需要移动至距离望远镜数万公里的距离。它的直径大概有几十米。它能够以难以置信的精度实现对恒星光线的遮挡，这样我们就能直接观测行星了。它的形状必须十分特殊，这是由物理学中的衍射现象决定的。这是我们从事的一项实际的项目，说真的，你们想象不出这有多难。为了证明这并不只是一种假想，给你们展示一个真实的照片，这是实验室中的第二代遮星板调试试验台。在这个项目中，我只是想让你们知道中心桁架装有太空大范围无线电部署的一部分。
en:So working on the modelsand thinking about biochemistry,it&#39;s all well and good.But a really big challengeahead of us is: how?How are we going to find these planets?There are actually many waysto find planets,several different ways.But the one that I&#39;m most focused onis how can we open a gatewayso that in the future,we can find hundreds of Earths.We have a real shotat finding signs of life.And actually, I just finishedleading a two-year projectin this very special phaseof a concept we call the starshade.And the starshadeis a very specially shaped screenand the goal is to fly that starshadeso it blocks out the light of a starso that the telescopecan see the planets directly.Here, you can see myselfand two team membersholding up one small partof the starshade.It&#39;s shaped like a giant flower,and this is one of the prototype petals.The concept is that a starshadeand telescope could launch together,with the petals unfurlingfrom the stowed position.The central truss would expand,with the petals snapping into place.Now, this has to be made very precisely,literally, the petals to micronsand they have to deploy to millimeters.And this whole structure would have to flytens of thousands of kilometersaway from the telescope.It&#39;s about tens of meters in diameter.And the goal is to block outthe starlight to incredible precisionso that we&#39;d be able to seethe planets directly.And it has to be a very special shape,because of the physics of defraction.Now this is a real projectthat we worked on,literally, you would not believe how hard.Just so you believeit&#39;s not just in movie format,here&#39;s a real photographof a second-generationstarshade deployment test bed in the lab.And in this case,I just wanted you to knowthat that central trusshas heritage left overfrom large radio deployables in space.
时间：12:40
zh-cn:那么，在这一系列我们试图寻找那些外行星中的神秘气体，以及建造了极其复杂的太空望远镜之类的艰难任务之后，我们会有什么收获呢？最好的情况是，我们会获得另一个类地行星的图像。这张图上的地球是一个淡蓝色的小点。这是一张地球的真实照片，由旅行者1号航天飞机从40亿英里外的距离拍摄的。那条红色的光线只是相机的光学部件散射出的光。
en:So after all of that hard workwhere we try to think of all the crazygases that might be out there,and we build the verycomplicated space telescopesthat might be out there,what are we going to find?Well, in the best case,we will find an imageof another exo-Earth.Here is Earth as a pale blue dot.And this is actuallya real photograph of Earthtaken by the Voyager 1 spacecraft,four billion miles away.And that red light is just scattered lightin the camera optics.
时间：13:10
zh-cn:想象一下，如果存在着高智慧的外星生物，正绕着我们附近恒星的行星运转，它们搭建出了我们正在建造的复杂的太空望远镜，它们能看到的也仅仅是一个淡蓝色的小点，极其微小的光点，这该有多酷啊！有时候，当我停下来思考我所面临的难题和我远大的理想，这跟浩瀚的宇宙相比真的不算什么。不过尽管如此，我还是打算奉献我的一生来寻找另一个地球。
en:But what&#39;s so awesome to consideris that if there are intelligent aliensorbiting on a planetaround a star near to usand they build complicatedspace telescopesof the kind that we&#39;re trying to build,all they&#39;ll see is this pale blue dot,a pinprick of light.And so sometimes, when I pause to thinkabout my professional struggleand huge ambition,it&#39;s hard to think about thatin contrast to the vastnessof the universe.But nonetheless, I am devotingthe rest of my lifeto finding another Earth.
时间：13:47
zh-cn:而且我可以保证，
en:And I can guarantee
时间：13:49
zh-cn:用下一代的太空望远镜，也就是第二代，我们将会有能力找到并识别出其他的类地行星。我们也将能够分解恒星发出的光线，能够找到那些气体，获得那些大气中的温室气体成分信息，估算星球表面的温度，并寻找生命的迹象。
en:that in the next generationof space telescopes,in the second generation,we will have the capabilityto find and identity other Earths.And the capabilityto split up the starlightso that we can look for gasesand assess the greenhouse gasesin the atmosphere,estimate the surface temperature,and look for signs of life.
时间：14:10
zh-cn:不过我们还有更长远的打算。在寻找其他类地行星的同时，我们还在制作一幅展示附近恒星及其行星的新太空地图，包括有可能适宜人类居住的（行星）。
en:But there&#39;s more.In this case of searchingfor other planets like Earth,we are making a new kind of mapof the nearby starsand of the planets orbiting them,including [planets] that actually might beinhabitable by humans.
时间：14:25
zh-cn:我能够想像我们的后代，在几百年之后，能够通过星际旅行到达其他的星球。他们能够回首我们这一代，第一个发现类地新世界的一代。
en:And so I envision that our descendants,hundreds of years from now,will embark on an interstellarjourney to other worlds.And they will look back at all of usas the generation who first foundthe Earth-like worlds.
时间：14:40
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:41
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：14:48
zh-cn:June Cohen （JC）: 你先来提问吧 ，有请罗塞塔任务的负责人，Fred Jansen。
en:June Cohen: And I give you,for a question,Rosetta Mission Manager Fred Jansen.
时间：14:52
zh-cn:Fred Jansen：你部分提到了可以分析类地行星光谱的技术还尚未实现。你认为什么时候可以实现，要如何实现呢？
en:Fred Jansen: You mentioned halfway throughthat the technologyto actually look at the spectrumof an exoplanet like Earthis not there yet.When do you expect this will be there,and what&#39;s needed?
时间：15:04
zh-cn:莎拉·西格尔（SS）：事实上我们打算依靠下一代的哈勃望远镜。我们叫它詹姆斯韦伯太空望远镜，会在2018年把它送上太空，整个计划大概是这样的，我们会观测一种特殊的行星，叫做过渡系外行星，那将是我们研究小行星上可能预示着生命迹象的气体的第一次尝试。
en:Actually, what we expect is what we callour next-generation Hubble telescope.And this is called the James WebbSpace Telescope,and that will launch in 2018,and that&#39;s what we&#39;re going to do,we&#39;re going to lookat a special kind of planetcalled transient exoplanets,and that will be our first shotat studying small planetsfor gases that might indicatethe planet is habitable.
时间：15:26
zh-cn:JC：莎拉，我还有个大众一点的问题要问一下你。我真的对你的职业生涯中所面临的反对声音感到很震惊，也就是当你开始思考系外行星，科学领域对它们是否存在持有极端怀疑的态度，你证明了他们是错的。你是如何承受这些的呢？
en:JC: I&#39;m going to ask youone follow-up question, too, Sara,as the generalist.So I am really struckby the notion in your careerof the opposition you faced,that when you began thinkingabout exoplanets,there was extreme skepticismin the scientific communitythat they existed,and you proved them wrong.What did it take to take that on?
时间：15:44
zh-cn:SS: 作为科学家，我们理应持怀疑态度，因为我们的工作就是要确认其他人的观点是否是合理的。但是作为一名科学家，我觉得你们可能已经在这段演讲中看到，我的职责更像是探索者。这需要极大的好奇心，固执，还需要坚定不移的意志，无论其他人说什么，都不能动摇。
en:SS: Well, the thing is that as scientists,we&#39;re supposed to be skeptical,because our job to make surethat what the other person is sayingactually makes sense or not.But being a scientist,I think you&#39;ve seen it from this session,it&#39;s like being an explorer.You have this immense curiosity,this stubbornness,this sort of resolute willthat you will go forwardno matter what other people say.
时间：16:07
zh-cn:JC：说的太好了。非常感谢你，莎拉。
en:JC: I love that. Thank you, Sara.
时间：16:08
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
