时间： 0:11
zh-cn:作为一名科学家，也作为人类的一员，我喜欢让自己被神奇的事物感动。我记得昨晚 Jason Webley 说这种人是“融入成为奇迹的一部分”。很幸运，作为一个生物学家，我可以深深进入那些非常奇妙的生物的生活中，它们和我们共享同一个星球：萤火虫。
en:As a scientist, and also as a human being,I&#39;ve been trying to make myselfsusceptible to wonder.I think Jason Webley last night called it&quot;conspiring to be part of the magic.&quot;So it&#39;s fortunate that my career as a biologistlets me dive deeply into the livesof some truly wondrous creaturesthat share our planet:fireflies.
时间： 0:39
zh-cn:我知道，对大部分人来说，萤火虫总会召唤出美好的回忆：童年，夏天，甚至其他的TED演讲，和其它的这样的事情。
en:Now, for many of you, I know that firefliesmight conjure up some really great memories:childhood, summertime,even other TED Talks.Maybe something like this.
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:我被萤火虫的世界所吸引，最初是在重回学校读研究生课程时。一天晚上，我坐在外面的院子里，当时我在北卡罗来纳州，突然间，这些悄无声息的星星就在我身边升起了！我当时开始想：这些小家伙是怎么制造光的呢？这样一闪一闪的又是怎么回事呢？是它们在对话吗？这些亮光熄灭以后会发生什么呢？我很幸运，这些年在夜的王国中探访，让我已经可以回答其中的一些问题了。
en:My seduction into the world of firefliesbegan when I was back in graduate school.One evening, I was sitting out in my backyardin North Carolina,and suddenly, these silent sparksrose up all around me,and I began to wonder:How do these creatures make light,and what&#39;s with all this flashing?Are they talking to one another?And what happens after the lights go out?I&#39;ve been lucky enough to answersome of these questionsas I&#39;ve explored this nocturnal world.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:如果你见过萤火虫，或者听说过萤火虫的故事，那你将了解它们是如何能够魔术般地把它们日常的景象转化得如空灵和仙境般的美丽，而这就发生在我们的星球上。比如在烟山的山坡上，我看到这些蓝色的精灵般的萤火虫用它们奇异的光，造出了一个流动的光的瀑布；还有我在日本一条路边的小河，看到这些源氏萤火虫舞出一道道缓慢流动的光带。或者是在马来西亚的红树林，我看到夜的绽放，不是花朵，而是一千只——（哔！哔！）——萤火虫的光芒，它们一起闪烁着，让人难以置信的同步。这些闪光的景象，我至今回想还是觉得无比奇妙，它们让我感受到自然界的奇迹。
en:Now if you&#39;ve ever seenor even heard about fireflies,then you&#39;ll know how magically they can transformour everyday landscape into somethingethereal and otherworldly,and this happens around the globe,like this hillside in the Smoky Mountainsthat I saw transformed into a living cascade of lightby the eerie glows of these blue ghost fireflies,or a roadside river that I visited in Japanas it was giving birth to the slow, floating flashesof these Genji fireflies,or in Malaysia, the mangrove treesthat I watched blossom nightlynot with flowersbut with the lights of a thousand — (Bleep! Bleep!) — fireflies,all blinking togetherin stunning synchrony.These luminous landscapesstill fill me with wonder,and they keep me connected to the magicof the natural world.
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:让我惊奇的是，这样的景象是由这些小昆虫创造的。对我来说，萤火虫是迷人的。它们充满魅力。几个世纪以来，不断在艺术和诗歌里受到赞颂。我在世界各地旅行的时候，遇见许多有思想的人，他们都觉得，上帝让萤火虫来到世界，是为了让人类欣赏，也让其它的生物欣赏。我真觉得这些优雅的昆虫是个奇迹，它们如此优美地诠释了进化中那创造性的即兴创作。它们是受两种强大的进化力量影响形成的：自然的选择是为了生存而奋斗；而性的选择，是为了争取繁衍的机会而努力；作为一个萤火虫迷，过去的二十年是我非常兴奋的一场旅程。我和在塔夫茨大学的学生们还有同事一起，发现了关于萤火虫的许多新鲜事：它们的求爱和性生活，它们的背叛和谋杀。所以今天我想和你们分享几个故事，这是从我们深入到这个这个隐秘的世界后一系列的探险后带回来的。
en:And I find it amazing that they&#39;re createdby these tiny insects.In person, fireflies are charming.They&#39;re charismatic.They&#39;ve been celebrated in artand in poetry for centuries.As I&#39;ve traveled around the world,I&#39;ve met many thoughtful peoplewho have told me that God put fireflies on Earthfor humans to enjoy.Other creatures can enjoy them too.I think these graceful insects are truly miraculousbecause they so beautifully illuminatethe creative improvisation of evolution.They&#39;ve been shaped by two powerfulevolutionary forces:natural selection, the struggle for survival,and sexual selection,the struggle for reproductive opportunity.As a firefly junkie, the past 20 yearshave been quite an exciting ride.Together with my students at Tufts Universityand other colleagues,we&#39;ve made lots of new discoveries about fireflies:their courtship and sex lives,their treachery and murder.So today I&#39;d like to share with youjust a couple of tales that we&#39;ve brought backfrom our collective adventuresinto this hidden world.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:萤火虫属于一种非常美丽，而且分支众多的昆虫，甲虫。全世界有超过2000种萤火虫的种类，而它们都衍生了有着明显不同的求爱信号，也就是，找寻和吸引伴侣的不同方式。大约1.5亿年前，第一只萤火虫可能长得像这个样子。它们在白天飞，而且不发光。取而代之的是，雄性用它们灵敏的触须来嗅闻雌性散发的香味。其它的萤火虫族群中，只有雌性萤火虫会发光。它们有迷人的丰满身体，没有翅膀，所以每天晚上，它们爬上岸边，持续几个小时地发出明亮的光芒，吸引正飞舞着的，但不会发光的雄性。还有的萤火虫族群，雄性和雌性都会用快速闪动的亮光来寻找它们的配偶。就在北美洲这里，我们有超过100种不同种类的萤火虫，它们都有非凡的能力，将身体里的能量投射成外在的光芒。它们是怎么做到的呢？这看起来完全是个奇迹，但这些生物性的发光信号是经过多种化学反应的细致协调，才形成在萤火虫的灯笼中的。主要的亮光来自一种荧光素酶，萤火虫在漫长的时间中进化出一种方法，用一种叫荧光素的更小的分子，包裹住自己的小脚，这个过程中是那么剧烈，以致于有了光的发散。不可思议。
en:Fireflies belong to a very beautifuland diverse group of insects, the beetles.Worldwide, there are more than 2,000 firefly species,and these have evolved remarkably diversecourtship signals,that is, different ways to find and attract mates.Around 150 million years ago,the very first fireflies probably looked like this.They flew during the daytimeand they didn&#39;t light up.Instead, males used their fantastic antennaeto sniff out perfumes given off by their females.In other fireflies, it&#39;s only the females who light up.They are attractively plump and wingless,so every night, they climb up onto perchesand they glow brightly for hoursto attract their flying but unlit males.In still other fireflies, both sexesuse quick, bright flashes to find their mates.Here in North America,we have more than 100 different kinds of fireflythat have the remarkable ability to shine energyout from their bodiesin the form of light.How do they do that?It seems totally magical,but these bioluminescent signalsarise from carefully orchestrated chemical reactionsthat happen inside the firefly lantern.The main star is an enzyme called luciferase,which in the course of evolutionhas figured out a way to wrap its tiny armsaround an even smaller molecule called luciferin,in the process getting it so excitedthat it actually gives off light.Incredible.
时间： 5:28
zh-cn:但是这些亮光是如何让一些特别的萤火虫受益的呢？要回答这个问题，我们需要先回顾萤火虫的族谱，我们来看几张小萤火虫的照片。在生长过程中，萤火虫完全变异了它们的身体，它们生命中绝大部分的时间，大约两年，是在幼虫期。这时候它们主要的目标，就像我的青少年时期，是吃和长大。萤火虫第一次发光是在它们的青少年期。每一只萤火虫幼虫都可以发光，即便它们长大以后不能发光。
en:But how could these bright lightshave benefited some proto-firefly?To answer this question, we need to flip backin the family album to some baby pictures.Fireflies completely reinventtheir bodies as they grow.They spend the vast majority of their lifetime,up to two years,in this larval form.Their main goal here, like my teenagers,is to eat and grow.And firefly light first originatedin these juveniles.Every single firefly larva can light up,even when their adults can&#39;t.
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:但是为什么它们要如此显眼？嗯，我们知道这些孩子会制造气味难闻的化学品，以此保护自己安全度过漫长的童年。所以我们认为，最开始进化出这些亮光是作为一种警告，这就像一个霓虹灯，喊着：“有毒！走开！”，吓唬任何可能的捕食者。这之后又经过了好几百万年的时间，这些亮光才进化成为一种聪明的沟通工具，不止是用来躲避可能的捕食者，也用来吸引可能的伴侣。现在来谈谈关于性的选择，一些成年萤火虫，像这只骄傲的雄虫，刚演化出一个在黑暗中闪亮的灯笼，这个灯笼会让它的求爱达到一个全新的水平。这些成虫只有几个星期的寿命，这时候它们一心只想着交配，让自己的基因繁衍出下一代的萤火虫。我们可以跟着这只雄虫到野外去，它加入了数百只其他雄虫中，它们都在炫耀着它们新的求爱信号。想想看，让我们赞叹的这些光亮，不止在这里，实际上在世界的每一个角落都闪烁着，它们正是雄性萤火虫静默无声的情歌，多么神奇！它们飞舞着，闪耀着它们的真心，我一直觉得，这太浪漫了。
en:But what&#39;s the pointto being so conspicuous?Well, we know that these juvenilesmake nasty-tasting chemicalsthat help them survive their extended childhood,so we think these lights first evolved as a warning,a neon sign that says, &quot;Toxic! Stay away!&quot;to any would-be predators.It took many millions of yearsbefore these bright lightsevolved into a smart communication toolthat could be used not just toward off potential predatorsbut to bring in potential mates.Driven now by sexual selection,some adult fireflieslike this proud maleevolved a shiny new glow-in-the-dark lanternthat would let them take courtshipto a whole new level.These adults only live a few weeks,and now they&#39;re single-mindedly focused on sex,that is, on propelling their genesinto the next firefly generation.So we can follow this male out into the fieldas he joins hundreds of other maleswho are all showing off their new courtship signals.It&#39;s amazing to think that the luminous displayswe admirehere and in fact everywhere around the worldare actually the silent love songsof male fireflies.They&#39;re flying and flashing their hearts out.I still find it very romantic.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:但同时，雌性萤火虫在哪里呢？它们懒洋洋地待在低处，审视着这些待选项。有充足的雄性萤火虫可供它们选择，而这些雌萤火虫还真是非常挑剔的。当一只雌萤火虫看到一只特别吸引人的雄性发出的闪光时，她会把她的灯笼朝向雄萤火虫，也给他一个闪光回应，这是她在说”到这儿来“。雄萤火虫就飞近她，再次闪光，如果雌萤火虫仍然喜欢他，他们就开始聊起天来。这种生物用光的语言诉说他们的爱。
en:But meanwhile, where are all the females?Well, they&#39;re lounging down belowsurveying their options.They have plenty of males to choose from,and these females turn out to be very picky.When a female sees a flashfrom an especially attractive male,she&#39;ll aim her lantern in his direction,and give him a flash back.It&#39;s her &quot;come hither&quot; sign.So he flies closer and he flashes again.If she still likes him,they&#39;ll strike up a conversation.These creatures speak their lovein the language of light.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:那么，到底这些雌萤火虫觉得什么是性感呢？我们决定在一些萤火虫中做民意调查来找到答案。当我们用闪光的LED灯测试雌萤火虫时，我们发现它们更喜欢可以持久发光的雄性。（大笑 ）（鼓掌）我猜你们想知道，是什么给了这些雄萤火虫性的吸引力？那我们就要来看看当这些亮光熄灭时发生了什么？
en:So what exactly do these females consider sexy?We decided to conduct some firefly opinion pollsto find out.When we tested females using blinking LED lights,we discovered they prefer maleswho give longer-lasting flashes.(Laughter) (Applause)I know you&#39;re wondering,what gives these males their sex appeal?Now we get to see what happenswhen the lights go out.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:我们发现的第一件事，是一旦一只雄萤火虫和一只雌萤火虫像这样勾在一起时，它们就会一整晚呆在一起。我们再朝里面看看，看看正在发生什么，我们惊人地发现一个对萤火虫性行为的误解。当它们交配时，雄萤火虫不止忙着向雌萤火虫射精，还给她一个富含营养的袋子，叫做新婚礼物。我们可以放大，更近地看看在交配的萤火虫体内。我们可以看到这个礼物——在这里它看起来是红色的——它正从雄萤火虫传向雌萤火虫。这个礼物如此珍贵，是因为它含有蛋白质，这是雌萤火虫产卵所必需的营养。所以雌萤火虫在评估它们潜在的伴侣时，都睁大眼睛关注这个礼物。我们发现雌萤火虫努力通过雄性的闪光信号来预测哪些雄性可以提供最丰厚的礼物。因为这个宝贝可以帮助雌萤火虫产下更多的卵，也最终决定了在新一代萤火虫中，可以有更多是她自己的后代。
en:The first thing we discoveredis that once a male and female hook up like this,they stay together all night long,and when we looked insideto see what might be happening,we discovered a surprising new twistto firefly sex.While they&#39;re mating,the male is busy giving the femalenot just his spermbut also a nutrient-filled packagecalled a nuptial gift.We can zoom in to look more closelyinside this mating pair.We can actually see the gift —it&#39;s shown here in red —as it&#39;s being passed from the male to the female.What makes this gift so valuableis that it&#39;s packed with proteinthat the female will use to provision her eggs.So females are keeping their eyes on this prizeas they size up potential mates.We discovered that females use male flash signalsto try to predict which maleshave the biggest gifts to offer,because this bling helps the female lay more eggsand ultimately launch more of her own offspringinto the next generation.
时间：10:08
zh-cn:不全是甜蜜和光，萤火虫的罗曼史也饱含危险。大部分情况下，成年萤火虫不会被吃掉，因为像它们小时候一样，它们可以制造毒素，让鸟儿和其他食虫动物躲开它们。但在历史中的某一处，萤火虫中的某一族，莫名其妙地就失去了这种代谢机制，但它们又必须制造自己的防卫毒素。这个进化中的小错误，是由我的同事Tom Eisner发现的，它促使这些萤火虫不怀好意地在黑夜中点亮自己。这是被我另一个同事Jim Lloyd称为“女性杀手”的雌性萤火虫，它们有一套方法来吸引其他种族的雄萤火虫。这场狩猎是从捕食者开始的——看左下方这里，她正安静地坐着，在偷听她想要捕食的萤火虫的求爱对话，接下来看会发生什么。首先，那个将被捕食的雄萤火虫说：“你爱我吗？”他自己的雌萤火虫回答说，“可能吧 。”所以接下来他又闪烁起来。但这次，是那个捕猎的小偷在回答，她很聪明，逼真地模仿其他雌萤火虫刚说过的话。她不是在寻找爱：她在寻找毒素。如果她是个中好手，她可以勾引这只雄萤火虫继续靠近，直到抓住他，他不止是一餐发光的小点心。一个小时之后，她慢慢地把这只雄萤火虫的血抽光，只剩下一具血淋淋的躯壳。因为不能制造自己的毒素，这些雌萤火虫依靠喝其他萤火虫的血，来得到这些有防卫作用的化学物质。所以，一只吸血鬼萤火虫在自然的选择中诞生了。
en:So it&#39;s not all sweetness and light.Firefly romance is risky.For the most part, these adult firefliesdon&#39;t get eaten because like their juvenilesthey can manufacture toxins that are repellentto birds and other insectivores,but somewhere along the line,one particular group of firefliessomehow lost the metabolic machineryneeded to make their own protective toxins.This evolutionary flaw,which was discovered by my colleague Tom Eisner,has driven these firefliesto take their bright lights out into the nightwith treacherous intent.Dubbed &quot;femme fatales&quot;by Jim Lloyd, another colleague,these females have figured out how to targetthe males of other firefly species.So the hunt begins with the predator —she&#39;s shown here in the lower left —where she&#39;s sitting quietlyand eavesdropping on the courtship conversationof her intended prey,and here&#39;s how it might go.First the prey male flashes, &quot;Do you love me?&quot;His own female responds, &quot;Maybe.&quot;So then he flashes again.But this time, the predator sneaks in a replythat cleverly mimics exactlywhat the other female just said.She&#39;s not looking for love: she&#39;s looking for toxins.If she&#39;s good, she can lure this male close enoughto reach out and grab him,and he&#39;s not just a light snack.Over the next hour, she slowlyexsanguinates this maleleaving behind just some gory remains.Unable to make their own toxins,these females resort to drinking the bloodof other fireflies to get these protective chemicals.So a firefly vampire,brought to you by natural selection.
时间：12:16
zh-cn:还有很多关于萤火虫的故事值得我们去发现，但可能许多故事会永远保持着缄默，因为萤火虫可能在眨眼间就在世上灭绝。罪魁祸首是：栖息地的消失。世界各地的许多旷野和森林，红树林和草地，这些萤火虫生存需要的环境都让路给开发和扩张。
en:We still have a lot to learn about fireflies,but it looks like many stories will remain untold,because around the world, firefly populationsare blinking out.The main culprit: habitat loss.Pretty much everywhere, the fields and forests,the mangroves and meadowsthat fireflies need to survive,are giving way to development and to sprawl.
时间：12:40
zh-cn:还有另一个问题：我们已经征服了黑暗，但在这个过程中，我们把这么多多余的光投向夜晚，这让其他生物的生活陷入混乱，萤火虫对光污染尤其敏感，因为这让它们用来寻找配偶的信号变得模糊不清。
en:Here&#39;s another problem: we&#39;ve conquered darkness,but in the process, we spill somuch extra light out into the nightthat it disrupts the lives of other creatures,and fireflies are especially sensitive to light pollutionbecause it obscures the signalsthat they use to find their mates.
时间：13:01
zh-cn:我们真的需要萤火虫吗？毕竟，它们只是地球生物多样性中一个微小的点。然而每次一种生物灭绝，就像在一间摆满蜡烛的房间一个接一个地熄灭蜡烛。你可能不会注意最初摇曳熄灭的那些火焰，但最后，只剩下你独自坐在黑暗中。在我们一起努力为这个星球创造美好的未来时，我希望我们可以找到一种方法让这些明亮的小灯笼继续闪耀。
en:Do we really need fireflies?After all, they&#39;re just one tiny bitof Earth&#39;s biodiversity.Yet every time a species is lost,it&#39;s like extinguishing a room full of candlesone by one.You might not noticewhen the first few flames flicker out,but in the end, you&#39;re left sitting in darkness.As we work together to craft a planetary future,I hope we can find a wayto keep these bright lights shining.
时间：13:41
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：13:43
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
