时间： 0:11
zh-cn:看看我们的媒体，新闻中播放的那些关于伊拉阿富汗、塞拉立昂以及那些我们难以理解的冲突战争当我开始这个项目时，我同样很难理解为什么会这样但作为一名物理学者我想，如果给我一些数据的话我也许会理解。因此，我去尝试了一下
en:We look around the media, as we see on the news from Iraq,Afghanistan, Sierra Leone,and the conflict seems incomprehensible to us.And that&#39;s certainly how it seemed to me when I started this project.But as a physicist,I thought, well if you give me some data,I could maybe understand this. You know, give us a go.
时间： 0:32
zh-cn:那么作为一名新西兰人我想，应该去五角大楼吧！“能给我一些关于战争的数据吗？”（笑声）不行？！嗯……看来我要另想办法了有天晚上，我在牛津大学看新闻的时候突然注意到电视荧幕下方有一些滚动的数据信息是关于当前所播新闻的数据信息其实所有围绕在在我们身边的声音都是含有信息的于是我想或许还有类似“开源”的情报信息如果我们能够收集到足够的信息就能够理解战争的原因了
en:So as a naive New ZealanderI thought, well I&#39;ll go to the Pentagon.Can you get me some information?(Laughter)No. So I had to think a little harder.And I was watching the news one night in Oxford.And I looked down at the chattering heads on my channel of choice.And I saw that there was information there.There was data within the streams of news that we consume.All this noise around us actually has information.So what I started thinking was,perhaps there is something like open source intelligence here.If we can get enough of these streams of information together,we can perhaps start to understand the war.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:以上就是我要做的事情。我们于是开始组建团队一支跨学科的研究队伍包括了经济学家以及数学家我们将这些人组织到一起，开始尝试解决这个问题我们将问题分成三步第一步是收集信息。我们从130个不同的信息源从非官方组织报道到新闻报纸、有线电视从中提取原始数据并加以过滤我们提取信息中的关键数据构建数据库该数据库包括进攻时间位置、规模以及武器使用情况信息全部取自于我们身边的各类媒体报道我们只是将它们提取并加以总结一旦我们收集好这些信息后，就可以做一些有趣的分析了如果我们想看看攻击规模的分布的话那么这个能告诉我们什么呢？
en:So this is exactly what I did. We started bringing a team together,an interdisciplinary team of scientists,of economists, mathematicians.We brought these guys together and we started to try and solve this.We did it in three steps.The first step we did was to collect. We did 130 different sources of information —from NGO reports to newspapers and cable news.We brought this raw data in and we filtered it.We extracted the key bits on information to build the database.That database containedthe timing of attacks,the location, the size and the weapons used.It&#39;s all in the streams of information we consume daily,we just have to know how to pull it out.And once we had this we could start doing some cool stuff.What if we were to look at the distribution of the sizes of attacks?What would that tell us?
时间： 1:55
zh-cn:于是我们就开始了分析，看看大屏幕上这个图吧在横轴上显示的是攻击中的死亡人数或者说是攻击的规模纵轴上显示的是攻击的频率我们将一些示例放到上面看到的是近似于随机的分布大概死亡人数为1人的攻击有67次或死亡人数为7人的攻击有47次我们对伊拉克的战争的数据做了类似的分析但我们不知道，在关于伊拉克战争的数据中我们会发现什么结果让我们大吃一惊如果将所有的冲突所有的骚乱、暴动全部提取出按照攻击规模排列显示，数据呈现出了这种分布按照攻击规模排列显示，数据呈现出了这种分布结果令我们非常兴奋为什么伊拉克的冲突战争会存在这样的基本特征呢？为什么会产生如此的排列呢？我们真的搞不懂了可能伊拉克战争确实存在一些特殊性吧我们来看看更多的冲突战争这是哥伦比亚的情况、阿富汗的这是塞内加尔的
en:So we started doing this. And you can see hereon the horizontal axisyou&#39;ve got the number of people killed in an attackor the size of the attack.And on the vertical axis you&#39;ve got the number of attacks.So we plot data for sample on this.You see some sort of random distribution —perhaps 67 attacks, one person was killed,or 47 attacks where seven people were killed.We did this exact same thing for Iraq.And we didn&#39;t know, for Iraq what we were going to find.It turns out what we found was pretty surprising.You take all of the conflict,all of the chaos, all of the noise,and out of thatcomes this precise mathematical distributionof the way attacks are ordered in this conflict.This blew our mind.Why should a conflict like Iraq have thisas its fundamental signature?Why should there be order in war?We didn&#39;t really understand that.We thought maybe there is something special about Iraq.So we looked at a few more conflicts.We looked at Colombia, we looked at Afghanistan,and we looked at Senegal.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:在这些冲突战争中全部呈现出相同的模式这本是不应该发生的！这些是不同的战争，不同的信仰冲突不同的政治斗争，不同的社会经济问题 （所带来的战争）但这些战争中的潜在的最根本的规率却是一样的所以我们要更进一步分析看看我们周围的世界，我么能够掌握的所有数据从秘鲁到印度尼西亚我们发现了同样的规律结果发现不仅仅这些直线分布而且这些线的斜率，都会围绕着Alpha等于2.5这个值于是我们可以生成一个等式来预测攻击的可能性也就是说出现造成 X 人死亡的攻击的概率在类似伊朗这样的国家它等于一个常量，乘以攻击的规模的负Alpha次方负Alpha值就是刚才展示的那条直线的斜率
en:And the same pattern emerged in each conflict.This wasn&#39;t supposed to happen.These are different wars, with different religious factions,different political factions, and different socioeconomic problems.And yet the fundamental patterns underlying themare the same.So we went a little wider.We looked around the world at all the data we could get our hands on.From Peru to Indonesia,we studied this same pattern again.And we found that not onlywere the distributions these straight lines,but the slope of these lines, they clustered aroundthis value of alpha equals 2.5.And we could generate an equationthat could predict the likelihood of an attack.What we&#39;re saying hereis the probability of an attack killing X number of peoplein a country like Iraqis equal to a constant, times the size of that attack,raised to the power of negative alpha.And negative alpha is the slope of that line I showed you before.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:怎么样？这个数据统计表，能告诉我们什么？这是我们作为物理学者所面临的挑战我们该如何解释这个数据？假如我们真的找出了这个Alpha值如果我们认真思考下，这是关于叛乱的组织及结构Alpha值作为攻击规模的分布其实反映的是发动袭击一方的强度分布我们来看一个集团动态变化的过程联合统一和各自为政合久必分，分久必和于是我们开始加以计算。我们能模拟（出结果）吗？我们是否能创造出类似于伊拉克战争中的规律吗？结果看来我们好像做了一个合理的工作我们可以模拟这些变化我们可以使用集团的动态变化过程来重建这一过程来解释在我们身边的冲突战争中所显示出的这种基础模式
en:So what?This is data, statistics. What does it tell us about these conflicts?That was a challenge we had to face as physicists.How do we explain this?And what we really found was that alpha,if we think about it, is the organizationalstructure of the insurgency.Alpha is the distribution of the sizes of attacks,which is really the distributionof the group strength carrying out the attacks.So we look at a process of group dynamics:coalescence and fragmentation,groups coming together, groups breaking apart.And we start running the numbers on this. Can we simulate it?Can we create the kind of patterns that we&#39;re seeingin places like Iraq?Turns out we kind of do a reasonable job.We can run these simulations.We can recreate this using a process of group dynamicsto explain the patterns that we seeall around the conflicts around the world.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:那么，结果如何呢？为什么这些看上去不同的冲突战争会具有同样的模式呢？现在我相信为什么了：叛乱部队，随着时间的推移，他们适应了结果就只有一种解决方案就是与更强的敌人战斗如果你找不到类似于叛乱部队这种敌人的话那么你根本就不应该存在因此每支现存的叛乱部队每场正在进行的冲突战争最后就会发展成这样这正是我们通过该模式计算后会预料的。
en:So what&#39;s going on?Why should these different — seemingly different conflictshave the same patterns?Now what I believe is going on is thatthe insurgent forces, they evolve over time. They adapt.And it turns out there is only one solutionto fight a much stronger enemy.And if you don&#39;t find that solution as an insurgent force,you don&#39;t exist.So every insurgent force that is ongoing,every conflict that is ongoing,it&#39;s going to look something like this.And that is what we think is happening.
时间： 5:27
zh-cn:如果把眼光放长，我们如何能改变（战争）呢？我们怎样才能结束伊拉克战争？看这个像什么？Alpha值是结构中的关键，它的值稳定在2.5这是如果继续战争后所发生的情况我们来试着调整这个值我们将它提高部队变得更加分散人数变得更多，但攻击力减弱了或者我们降低它他们变得更加强悍，但集团减少了但是也许可以坐下来和他们谈判
en:Taking it forward, how do we change it?How do we end a war like Iraq?What does it look like?Alpha is the structure. It&#39;s got a stable state at 2.5.This is what wars look like when they continue.We&#39;ve got to change that.We can push it up:the forces become more fragmented;there is more of them, but they are weaker.Or we push it down:they&#39;re more robust; there is less groups;but perhaps you can sit and talk to them.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:因此这张图表，我将要展示给你们的是在此之前，没有人看过。这是我们上周刚刚计算出来的。我们能够看到Alpha值的演变过程看开始时候的情况。它一直慢慢增加到稳定到2.5左右正如同身边战争中的情况在入侵Falusia期间，Alpha值没有发生变化直到2006年伊拉克大选时发生的萨迈拉炸弹袭击事件整个系统变得越来越不安全，Alpha值变化到一个分散的状态此时美国宣布开始向伊拉克派出增援部队当然这取决谁问你理论上讲，增援应该将Alpha值进一步增高结果相反的情况发生集团变得越来越强大他们变得越来越野蛮看来我猜对了。Alpha应该进一步地降低我们能够与他们对话，能够商讨解决方案。结果相反的情况发生了Alpha值又上升了，集团变得更加分散这张图表告诉我两件事情无论我们返回起点或派出增援都没有产生预期效果最终集团都会变得更加分散我们是否应该开始考虑撤军了我不知道具体的答案但我知道我们应该好好看看叛乱的结构再来回答这个问题谢谢（掌声）
en:So this graph here, I&#39;m going to show you now.No one has seen this before. This is literallystuff that we&#39;ve come through last week.And we see the evolution of Alpha through time.We see it start. And we see it grow up to the stable statethe wars around the world look like.And it stays there through the invasion of Fallujahuntil the Samarra bombings in theIraqi elections of &#39;06.And the system gets perturbed. It moves upwardsto a fragmented state.This is when the surge happens.And depending on who you ask,the surge was supposed to push it up even further.The opposite happened.The groups became stronger.They became more robust.And so I&#39;m thinking, right, great, it&#39;s going to keep going down.We can talk to them. We can get a solution. The opposite happened.It&#39;s moved up again. The groups are more fragmented.And this tells me one of two things.Either we&#39;re back where we startedand the surge has had no effect;or finally the groups have been fragmented to the extentthat we can start to think about maybe moving out.I don&#39;t know what the answer is to that.But I know that we should be looking at the structure of the insurgencyto answer that question.Thank you.(Applause)
