时间： 0:12
zh-cn:做了十五年战地记者后，我才意识到自己出了问题。我整个人都不对劲，
en:I worked as a war reporter for 15 yearsbefore I realizedthat I really had a problem.There was something really wrong with me.
时间： 0:22
zh-cn:这事大概发生在9/11事件前一年，当时美国还没处于战乱中。人们尚未谈及PTSD。也未提及伤痛和战争给人带来的心灵创伤。我同北部联盟在阿富汗待过几个月，正值阿富汗与塔利班交战。当时，塔利班有一支空军部队。他们还有战斗机，坦克和大炮。有好几次，我们着实遭到了重创。也目睹过一些恶劣行径。但我确实没想过这事会影响到我。我没怎么去想过它。
en:This was about a year before 9/11,and America wasn&#39;t at war yet.We weren&#39;t talking about PTSD.We were not yet talkingabout the effect of trauma and waron the human psyche.I&#39;d been in Afghanistanfor a couple of monthswith the Northern Allianceas they were fighting the Taliban.And at that point the Talibanhad an air force,they had fighter planes,they had tanks, they had artillery,and we really got hammeredpretty badly a couple of times.We saw some very ugly things.But I didn&#39;t really think it affected me.I didn&#39;t think much about it.
时间： 0:57
zh-cn:我返回纽约，回到居所。然后有天，我走进地铁，这辈子第一次，我感受到了真正的恐惧。莫大的恐慌向我袭来，我可比当时在阿富汗要来得惶恐得多。眼前所见的一切似乎都想要我的命，但我不能解释为何。列车开得飞快，周围太多人，灯光过于亮，万物喧闹着，飞快晃动着。我靠在一根支柱边，就只是静待其变。在自己忍无可忍之时，我冲出地铁站，像只没头苍蝇一通瞎走。
en:I came home to New York, where I live.Then one day I went down into the subway,and for the first time in my life,I knew real fear.I had a massive panic attack.I was way more scaredthan I had ever been in Afghanistan.Everything I was looking at seemed likeit was going to kill me,but I couldn&#39;t explain why.The trains were going too fast.There were too many people.The lights were too bright.Everything was too loud,everything was moving too quickly.I backed up against a support columnand just waited for it.When I couldn&#39;t take it any longer,I ran out of the subway stationand walked wherever I was going.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:之后我才知晓，当时自己患上的是短期PTSD——也就是“战后孤独感症候群”。我们从动物、人猿演化而来，在危险情境中生存了下来，如果你的生命处于危险的情境当中，你会想对不熟悉的噪音作出反应。你会浅眠，而且很容易惊醒。你就会做噩梦并回忆起那些差点把你杀掉的事情。你会变得很生气，因为它会让你进入准备战斗的状态，或者变得绝望，因为它会让你有点喘不过气来，你会想随时保持自己的安全。这并不令人愉快，但比被恐惧吞噬来得好。
en:Later, I found out that what I hadwas short-term PTSD:post-traumatic stress disorder.We evolved as animals, as primates,to survive periods of danger,and if your life has been in danger,you want to react to unfamiliar noises.You want to sleep lightly, wake up easily.You want to have nightmares and flashbacksof the thing that could kill you.You want to be angry because it makes youpredisposed to fight,or depressed, because it keeps you outof circulation a little bit.Keeps you safe.It&#39;s not very pleasant,but it&#39;s better than getting eaten.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:大多数人能很快走出这个阴影。大概需要几个星期，或是几个月。我一直经历着这种痛苦的打击，但我最后还是康復了。我不知道这和自己目睹过的战乱有所相连。我只觉得自己要疯了，之后我想，好吧，现在我再也不会发疯了。
en:Most people recoverfrom that pretty quickly.It takes a few weeks, a few months.I kept having panic attacks,but they eventually went away.I had no idea it was connectedto the war that I&#39;d seen.I just thought I was going crazy,and then I thought, well,now I&#39;m not going crazy anymore.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:然而，大约有20%的人，最后演变成慢性、长期的PTSD他们不是要去面对短期的危险，而是不能适应日常的生活，除非有人能帮他们一把。我们都知道那些容易转变为长期PTSD的人，这些人也许是童年时蒙受过非人虐待、也许是年幼时遭到精神创伤、也许是没有受过高等教育的人，也许是有精神病的家庭遗传，如果你曾在越南服役，而你的兄弟是精神分裂病患者，你很有可能因越南的经历而患上PTSD。
en:About 20 percent of people, however,wind up with chronic, long-term PTSD.They are not adapted to temporary danger.They are maladapted for everyday life,unless they get help.We know that the peoplewho are vulnerable to long-term PTSDare people who were abused as children,who suffered trauma as children,people who have low education levels,people who have psychiatricdisorders in their family.If you served in Vietnamand your brother is schizophrenic,you&#39;re way more likely to getlong-term PTSD from Vietnam.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:因此我开始以记者的身份，来对这个问题进行调查研究，并且意识到，确实这其中有所异常。“人数”似乎朝着错误的方向不断发展。每一次我们国家参与的战争，——从独立战争开始，战争的强度开始下降。所以，伤亡率也开始下降。但伤残率却开始上升，它们本该是朝同一方向进发，却走上了截然不同的道路。
en:So I started to study thisas a journalist,and I realized that there was somethingreally strange going on.The numbers seemed to be goingin the wrong direction.Every war that we havefought as a country,starting with the Civil War,the intensity of the combat has gone down.As a result, the casualty rateshave gone down.But disability rates have gone up.They should be goingin the same direction,but they&#39;re going in different directions.
时间： 3:43
zh-cn:感谢上帝，最近在伊拉克和阿富汗的战争仅造成越南战争伤亡率的三分之一。但是，它们也导致了——多达三倍的伤残率。将近有 10% 的美国军人经历过战场，或者说是10%以下。他们在战场上开枪，杀人，中弹、或者看着他们的战友倒下。这简直是莫大的精神创伤。这仅仅是10%的军人。然而从政府的档案中，我们看到有一半的军人正在领取 PTSD 的救济金。
en:The recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistanhave produced, thank God,a casualty rate about one thirdof what it was in Vietnam.But they&#39;ve also created —they&#39;ve also producedthree times the disability rates.Around 10 percent of the US militaryis actively engaged in combat,10 percent or under.They&#39;re shooting at people,killing people,getting shot at,seeing their friends get killed.It&#39;s incredibly traumatic.But it&#39;s only about 10 percentof our military.But about half of our military has filedfor some kind of PTSD compensationfrom the government.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:从逻辑看来，自杀人数根本不符合这个数据。我们都听说过一个不幸的统计数据，平均每天，有22个退伍军人，就在这个国家，选择自杀。大部分人还没发觉这些自杀案例大多数是从越南战争回国的老兵，在那一个年代，他们想要自我了断的决定，事实上或许与那场50年前的战争无关。实际上，目前没有战争与自杀是有关连性的统计数据。假如你在军队中参与过很多场战役，你更不会倾向于选择自杀，一项研究显示，假如你参与过伊拉克或者阿富汗战争，其实你是更不可能在往后选择自杀的。
en:And suicide doesn&#39;t even fit into thisin a very logical way.We&#39;ve all heard the tragic statisticof 22 vets a day, on average,in this country, killing themselves.Most people don&#39;t realizethat the majority of those suicidesare veterans of the Vietnam War,that generation,and their decision to take their own livesactually might not be relatedto the war they fought 50 years earlier.In fact, there&#39;s no statistical connectionbetween combat and suicide.If you&#39;re in the militaryand you&#39;re in a lot of combat,you&#39;re no more likely to kill yourselfthan if you weren&#39;t.In fact, one study foundthat if you deploy to Iraq or Afghanistan,you&#39;re actually slightly less likelyto commit suicide later.
时间： 5:19
zh-cn:我在大学时期研究人类学，到那瓦侯保护区做过实地调查，写过当地长跑运动员的相关论文。而最近，在我研究PTSD时，突然有了这样的想法。我想起我年轻时做过的研究，我在想，我敢说那瓦侯人，阿帕切人，科曼奇人我的意思是，——這些好戰的民族——我打赌他们不像我们这样会患上PTSD。当他们的战士从抵抗美国军队的战争中回到家乡或者从部落之间的互斗中归来时，我敢说他们肯定很容易就重新融入部落生活。
en:I studied anthropology in college.I did my fieldworkon the Navajo reservation.I wrote a thesis on Navajolong-distance runners.And recently, whileI was researching PTSD,I had this thought.I thought back to the workI did when I was young,and I thought, I bet the Navajo,the Apache, the Comanche —I mean, these are very warlike nations —I bet they weren&#39;t gettingPTSD like we do.When their warriors came backfrom fighting the US militaryor fighting each other,I bet they pretty much just slippedright back into tribal life.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:也许，决定长期 PTSD 的因素，不是在战场上发生了什麽，而是你回到了什麽样的社会。要是回到一个紧密联繫的、团结的、部落化的社会，你能很快度过创伤期。但假如你回到的是一个人与人疏远的现代社会，或许会以郁郁终生结尾。换句话来说，也许问题不出在他们、那些退伍军人身上；而有可能是我们社会自身的问题。
en:And maybe what determinesthe rate of long-term PTSDisn&#39;t what happened out there,but the kind of society you come back to.And maybe if you come backto a close, cohesive, tribal society,you can get over trauma pretty quickly.And if you come backto an alienating, modern society,you might remain traumatizedyour entire life.In other words, maybe the problemisn&#39;t them, the vets;maybe the problem is us.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:的确，现代社会对人类的精神带来了重大的压力，这些压力来自于我们社会上各种的衡量标准。随着社会财富积累，自杀率不减反增。如果你住在现代社会中，有多达 8 倍的几率，毕生遭受更多、比生活在贫困农耕社会，还要多的忧愁烦恼。现代社会可能引发了有所以来超高的自杀率、抑鬱症、焦虑症、孤僻症和受到童年虐待的可能，这比例要比历史任一时代都高。我曾看过一项研究，它把尼日利亚的妇女，也就是非洲最混乱、暴力、堕落、最贫穷的国家之一，和北美的女性进行比较。北美的城市女性是抑鬱症患病率最高的。她们同样是最富有的一群人。
en:Certainly, modern societyis hard on the human psycheby every metric that we have.As wealth goes up in a society,the suicide rate goes up instead of down.If you live in modern society,you&#39;re up to eight times more likelyto suffer from depression in your lifetimethan if you live in a poor,agrarian society.Modern society has probably producedthe highest rates of suicideand depression and anxietyand loneliness and child abuseever in human history.I saw one studythat compared women in Nigeria,one of the most chaoticand violent and corruptand poorest countries in Africa,to women in North America.And the highest rates of depressionwere urban women in North America.That was also the wealthiest group.
时间： 7:39
zh-cn:那么，我们回头来看美军的状况。10% 的军人经历过战争。约乎50%的人申请PTSD补偿金。所以大概 40% 的退伍老兵并不是在海外受到精神创伤，而是回到家后发现他们被孤立并感到沮丧绝望。在这些人身上到底发生了什么？他们遭遇了什麽？我们让 40% 的人，患上 PTSD，却不清楚成因？
en:So let&#39;s go back to the US military.Ten percent are in combat.Around 50 percent have filedfor PTSD compensation.So about 40 percent of veteransreally were not traumatized overseasbut have come home to discoverthey are dangerously alienatedand depressed.So what is happening with them?What&#39;s going on with those people,the phantom 40 percent that are troubledbut don&#39;t understand why?
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:或许是这个原因：也许当时他们在海外，经历过部队亲密的战友关係。他们一起吃饭，一起睡觉，一道完成任务和使命。以生命为担保，相信彼此。待他们回到家，曾经的一切都必须舍弃。他们回到社会，这个现代社会，这个甚至对非军人都苛刻至极的社会。所有人在这社会都活得艰苦。
en:Maybe it&#39;s this:maybe they had an experienceof sort of tribal closenessin their unit when they were overseas.They were eating together,sleeping together,doing tasks and missions together.They were trusting each otherwith their lives.And then they come homeand they have to give all that upand they&#39;re coming backto a society, a modern society,which is hard on peoplewho weren&#39;t even in the military.It&#39;s just hard on everybody.
时间： 8:50
zh-cn:而我们却一直关注创伤，PTSD。但对大部分人来说，也许这不是精神创伤。我的意思是，当然了，士兵的确是受过精神创伤，也有士兵接受过治疗。但是这之中许多人——也许困扰他们的只是一种疏离感。我的意思是，也许我们只是错用了词语去形容他们，只要调整我们的语句，改变我们的想法，都将会有所帮助。&quot;战后孤独感症候群&quot;。也许只要这样称呼他们其中的一部分人就能帮助他们停止联想一个根本没有发生过的创伤。这是为了解释一种他们正在经历的感受。而事实上，这是一种非常危险的感觉。疏远和抑郁有可能导致自杀。这些人身处险境。瞭解成因是非常重要的事情。
en:And we keep focusing on trauma, PTSD.But for a lot of these people,maybe it&#39;s not trauma.I mean, certainly,soldiers are traumatizedand the ones who arehave to be treated for that.But a lot of them —maybe what&#39;s bothering themis actually a kind of alienation.I mean, maybe we just havethe wrong word for some of it,and just changing our language,our understanding,would help a little bit.&quot;Post-deployment alienation disorder.&quot;Maybe even just calling it thatfor some of these peoplewould allow them to stop imaginingtrying to imagine a traumathat didn&#39;t really happenin order to explain a feelingthat really is happening.And in fact, it&#39;s an extremelydangerous feeling.That alienation and depressioncan lead to suicide.These people are in danger.It&#39;s very important to understand why.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:以色列军人，患 PTSD 的概率是1%。有一种理论是说，因为以色列的所有人都需要服兵役。当士兵从前线回归，他们不是要从军队环境回到文明社会，而是回到一个人人都瞭解甚麽是当兵的社会。每个人都曾经服役、或者准备去服役。所有人知道自己处在什么样的情况，就好像这些人处于一个庞大的部落中。
en:The Israeli military has a PTSD rateof around one percent.The theory is that everyone in Israelis supposed to serve in the military.When soldiers come backfrom the front line,they&#39;re not going from a militaryenvironment to a civilian environment.They&#39;re coming back to a communitywhere everyone understandsabout the military.Everyone&#39;s been in itor is going to be in it.Everyone understandsthe situation they&#39;re all in.It&#39;s as if they&#39;re all in one big tribe.
时间：10:13
zh-cn:我们都知道，如果拿做实验用的小白鼠，折磨它，把它单独关在笼子里，你可以永无止境地让牠保持在精神创伤的状态。但假如你把同样的实验鼠放在有其他老鼠的笼子里，几个星期后，牠的表现就会回復正常了。
en:We know that if you take a lab ratand traumatize it and put itin a cage by itself,you can maintain its trauma symptomsalmost indefinitely.And if you take that same lab ratand put it in a cage with other rats,after a couple of weeks,it&#39;s pretty much OK.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:在9/11之后，纽约的谋杀率下降了40%，自杀率也下降了，纽约的暴力犯罪率，随9/11之后也下降了。甚至在之前战役中，饱受 PTSD 的老兵都说，他们的症状在9/11之后有所缓和。原因在于，如果一整个社会范围内的群体都受到创伤，我们并不会因此瓦解崩溃，彼此针锋相对。而是融为一体，心连心。大致来说，我们产生了集体意识。团结一起的过程让人感觉很好，也对我们有益，甚至帮助了那些、还在苦苦与精神健康问题缠斗的人。在二战伦敦被德国轰炸的期间，精神病医院的患者减少了。
en:After 9/11,the murder rate in New York Citywent down by 40 percent.The suicide rate went down.The violent crime rate in New Yorkwent down after 9/11.Even combat veterans of previous warswho suffered from PTSDsaid that their symptoms went downafter 9/11 happened.The reason is that if you traumatizean entire society,we don&#39;t fall apartand turn on one another.We come together. We unify.Basically, we tribalize,and that process of unifyingfeels so good and is so good for us,that it even helps peoplewho are strugglingwith mental health issues.During the blitz in London,admissions to psychiatric wardswent down during the bombings.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:有一段时间，美军从海外返回的国家是一个团结的国家。我们紧紧相依，试图知晓到底是什么威胁着我们。试着自我帮助，加益于世界。但这些都变了。现在，美国的在役军人、美国老兵，正在回到一个极其分裂的国家，两党互相指控对方叛国、是国家的敌人、或者暗中颠复国家的国土安全和福利。贫富差距达到前所未有之大，现状还在恶化。种族关系恶劣，街上有人示威游行、甚至引发暴乱，全因种族歧视。退伍军人知道任何一个部落或者连队以这样的方式对待自己的战友，都不会存活。我们却已经习惯了。退伍军人离开战地，终是回国。用全新的眼光，看待自己的国家。目睹发生的这些，这就是他们为之浴血奋斗的国家。也难怪他们会抑郁，他们会害怕。
en:For a while, that was the kind of countrythat American soldiers cameback to — a unified country.We were sticking together.We were trying to understandthe threat against us.We were trying to helpourselves and the world.But that&#39;s changed.Now, American soldiers,American veterans are coming backto a country that is so bitterly dividedthat the two political partiesare literally accusing each otherof treason, of beingan enemy of the state,of trying to undermine the securityand the welfare of their own country.The gap between rich and pooris the biggest it&#39;s ever been.It&#39;s just getting worse.Race relations are terrible.There are demonstrationsand even riots in the streetsbecause of racial injustice.And veterans know that any tribethat treated itself that way — in fact,any platoon that treated itselfthat way — would never survive.We&#39;ve gotten used to it.Veterans have gone awayand are coming backand seeing their own countrywith fresh eyes.And they see what&#39;s going on.This is the country they fought for.No wonder they&#39;re depressed.No wonder they&#39;re scared.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:有的时候，我们问自己，是否能够拯救那些老兵。我反倒认为，真正的问题在于，我们能不能拯救我們的社會。如果能，我想他们就会有所好转。这个国家是时候该团结起来了，只为帮助那些为保护我们而奋勇斗争的人。
en:Sometimes, we ask ourselvesif we can save the vets.I think the real questionis if we can save ourselves.If we can,I think the vets are going to be fine.It&#39;s time for this country to unite,if only to help the men and womenwho fought to protect us.
时间：13:18
zh-cn:非常感谢大家的倾听。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：13:19
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
