时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我不是很确定，在座的各位是否都很熟悉我的照片。我想先给各位看一些照片，然后再进行我的演讲。
en:I&#39;m not sure that every person hereis familiar with my pictures.I want to start to show just a few pictures to you,and after I&#39;ll speak.
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:我要给大家介绍一点我的个人生涯，因为稍后我们会在演讲中谈到这个。因为稍后我们会在演讲中谈到这个。我于1944年出生在巴西，那时巴西还未实行市场经济。我出生在农庄，那个农庄有一半以上的面积是雨林（现在仍然是）。超棒的地方。我和各种珍奇的鸟兽朝夕相处，和鳄鱼在同一条小河游泳。农庄里住着大概有35户人家，过着自给自足的生活。我们几乎不去集市。一年一次，唯一要去集市的情况是因为我们养的牛群要去屠宰。我们要走大概45天才到屠宰场，赶着数千头的牛。返程会再花上20天左右才会回到农庄。
en:I must speak to you a little bit of my history,because we&#39;ll be speaking on thisduring my speech here.I was born in 1944 in Brazil,in the times that Brazil was not yet a market economy.I was born on a farm,a farm that was more than 50 percent rainforest [still].A marvelous place.I lived with incredible birds, incredible animals,I swam in our small rivers with our caimans.It was about 35 families that lived on this farm,and everything that we produced on this farm, we consumed.Very few things went to the market.Once a year, the only thing that went to the marketwas the cattle that we produced,and we made trips of about 45 daysto reach the slaughterhouse,bringing thousands of head of cattle,and about 20 days traveling backto reach our farm again.
时间： 1:55
zh-cn:我15岁的时候，必须离开这里去一个大一点的小镇.....大很多在那里我完成了中学的后半部分。学到了不一样的知识。巴西开始实行城镇化和工业化，我知道政治是怎么回事。我有点激进，我是左派党党员，后来成为一名政治活动家。我在大学里学习经济，拿到了经济学的硕士学位。
en:When I was 15 years old,it was necessary for me to leave this placeand go to a town a little bit bigger — much bigger —where I did the second part of secondary school.There I learned different things.Brazil was starting to urbanize, industrialize,and I knew the politics. I became a little bit radical,I was a member of leftist parties,and I became an activist.I [went to] university to become an economist.I [did] a master&#39;s degree in economics.
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:我生命中最重要的事情也是在这时发生的。我遇到了一个非常不错的女孩她后来成为我一生的挚友，和我携手与共的人生伴侣。她是我的爱妻，Lelia Wannick Salgado。
en:And the most important thing in my lifealso happened in this time.I met an incredible girlwho became my lifelong best friend,and my associate in everything that I have done till now,my wife, Lélia Wanick Salgado.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:巴西那时非常激进。我们和当权者进行了艰难卓绝的斗争，一时间我们必须找个地方带着武器躲起来，或者离开巴西。我们非常年轻，组织认为离开对我们来说更好。我们就去了法国，在法国我获得了经济学博士学位，Leila则成为一名建筑师。后来我在一家投资银行工作。我们常常出差，融资开发在非洲和世界银行的金融项目...
en:Brazil radicalized very strongly.We fought very hard against the dictatorship,in a moment it was necessary to us:Either go into clandestinity with weapons in hand,or leave Brazil. We were too young,and our organization thought it was better for us to go out,and we went to France,where I did a PhD in economics,Léila became an architect.I worked after for an investment bank.We made a lot of trips, financed development,economic projects in Africa with the World Bank.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:后来有一天摄影闯进并占领了我的生活，我成为一名摄影师。抛弃我所有的一切，成为一名摄影师。我开始拍照，这对我而言非常重要。很多人对我说，你是一名摄影记者，你是一名人类学家摄影师，你是一名社会活动家摄影师。但我做的比这更多。我视摄影为生命。我潜心摄影长期拍照。我想给大家展示一些照片再一次，你们会看到社会课题的深入层面，关于这方面我着手并出版了许多书籍，通过照片反映出来，但我现在只展示一小部分。
en:And one day photography made a total invasion in my life.I became a photographer,abandoned everything and became a photographer,and I started to do the photographythat was important for me.Many people tell me that you are a photojournalist,that you are an anthropologist photographer,that you are an activist photographer.But I did much more than that.I put photography as my life.I lived totally inside photographydoing long term projects,and I want to show you just a few picturesof — again, you&#39;ll see inside the social projects,that I went to, I published many bookson these photographs,but I&#39;ll just show you a few ones now.
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:上世纪90年代，从1994年到2000年，我拍摄了一个故事叫做 迁徙它出版过书籍，也办过展览。
en:In the &#39;90s, from 1994 to 2000,I photographed a story called Migrations.It became a book. It became a show.
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:但在我拍摄这个故事期间，我经历了人生中非常艰难的一段时光，大部分是在卢旺达。我在卢旺达见识了全部的残暴行径。一天之内数以千计的人丧生，我对人性失去信心。我不相信我们还可以继续活下去。然后我的身体也开始被细菌侵袭。每处都被感染了。和我妻子做爱时，没有精液射出而是流血。我去巴黎看了一个朋友的医生告诉他我病的很严重。他做了很多检查后告诉我：” Sebastian，你没有生病，你的前列腺状况良好。事实上是，你见到了如此多的死亡事件而让你病入膏肓。你必须停下来。停止。你必须停下来，如果不这样的话你真的会死。
en:But during the time that I was photographing this,I lived through a very hard moment in my life, mostly in Rwanda.I saw in Rwanda total brutality.I saw deaths by thousands per day.I lost my faith in our species.I didn&#39;t believe that it was possible for us to live any longer,and I started to be attacked by my own Staphylococcus.I started to have infection everywhere.When I made love with my wife, I had no sperm that came out of me;I had blood.I went to see a friend&#39;s doctor in Paris,told him that I was completely sick.He made a long examination, and told me, &quot;Sebastian,you are not sick, your prostate is perfect.What happened is, you saw so many deaths that you are dying.You must stop. Stop.You must stop because on the contrary, you will be dead.&quot;
时间： 6:05
zh-cn:后来我决定停止。我非常低落，不论是摄影，还是其他任何事情。我决定回去我出生的地方。刚好有一个很大的巧合。我的父母这时都已非常年迈，我有7个姐妹，我是家里唯一的男孩。他们一起决定让Lelia和我继承家族的土地。我们继承到这块土地的时候，它和我一样死气沉沉。我还是孩子的时候，它有一半以上的雨林。但是当我们继承到它的时候，雨林面积不足0.5%。在我所有的区域中，为了开发新的建案我们毁弃了大面积的森林。就跟你们在美国或者印度，其他各个地方一样做了同样的事情。为了开发建案，我们陷入了一个巨大的矛盾我们毁弃了周围几乎所有的事物。这个农场，曾经有数以千计的牛群，只剩下几百只。我们不知道该怎么办。Lelia想到了一个好主意，很疯狂。
en:And I made the decision to stop.I was really upset with photography,with everything in the world,and I made the decision to go back to where I was born.It was a big coincidence.It was the moment that my parents became very old.I have seven sisters. I&#39;m one of the only men in my family,and they made together the decisionto transfer this land to Léila and myself.When we received this land, this land was as dead as I was.When I was a kid, it was more than 50 percent rainforest.When we received the land,it was less than half a percent rainforest,as in all my region.To build development, Brazilian development,we destroyed a lot of our forest.As you did here in the United States,or you did in India, everywhere in this planet.To build our development,we come to a huge contradictionthat we destroy around us everything.This farm that had thousands of head of cattlehad just a few hundreds,and we didn&#39;t know how to deal with these.And Léila came up with an incredible idea, a crazy idea.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:她说：不然我们恢复这里的雨林吧？你说你出生的地方好比伊甸园，我们重新建造一个伊甸园。
en:She said, why don&#39;t you put back the rainforest that was here before?You say that you were born in paradise.Let&#39;s build the paradise again.
时间： 7:24
zh-cn:后来我就去拜访了一个很好的朋友他为我们设计了森林准备详尽的计划我们就开工了。我们开始种树，第一年未成活的有很多，第二年就少一些，慢慢的，慢慢的，这片死亡之地开始重生。我们开始大量的种植树木，只种本地品种，本国品种，在这里我们建造了一个生态系统，和毁弃的那个森林一样。生命奇迹般的回来了。把我们的这块土地变成森林公园是很必要的事情我们这么做了。我们把这块土地还给自然，让他成为森林公园。我们成立了一个机构叫做 Instituto Terra，我们成立了一个大的环境项目，各处募款。在洛杉矶，旧金山湾区，捐款在美国可抵税。我们也在西班牙，意大利，巴西募款。我们和巴西的很多公司合作，他们管理运用这笔资金。生命开始回归，我有一个很大的愿望要重拾摄影之路这一次，我的愿望不再是跟从前一样只拍摄人类，我希望拍摄其他的动物拍摄风景拍摄我们，但是是最初的我们和自然平和相处的我们我去做了。我在2004年年初开始，到2011年年底结束。我们拍摄了超多数量的照片。结果，Lelia为我所有的书做设计，也策划了所有的展览。她是这些展览的创办人。我们希望这些照片能激发一些讨论，我们未受破坏的星球原本是怎样的哪些是我们必须要坚守的如果我们要生存，要在我们的生活中获得一些平衡。我也希望看到我们我们在用石头器具的时候，我们就存在了。上周我在巴西国家印第安基金会，仅仅在亚马逊地区就有110个印第安人群落我们还未联络到。这点来讲我们必须保护森林。用这些照片，我希望我们能传达一个信息，一整套信息。我尝试做一个新的关于地球的展示，我希望能给你们展示一些新的照片关于这个计划。请。
en:And I went to see a good friendthat was engineering foreststo prepare a project for us,and we started. We started to plant, and thisfirst year we lost a lot of trees, second year less,and slowly, slowly this dead land started to be born again.We started to plant hundreds of thousands of trees,only local species, only native species,where we built an ecosystem identical to the one that was destroyed,and the life started to come back in an incredible way.It was necessary for us to transform our landinto a national park.We transformed. We gave this land back to nature.It became a national park.We created an institution called Instituto Terra,and we built a big environmental project to raise money everywhere.Here in Los Angeles, in the Bay Area in San Francisco,it became tax deductible in the United States.We raised money in Spain, in Italy, a lot in Brazil.We worked with a lot of companies in Brazilthat put money into this project, the government.And the life started to come, and I had a big wishto come back to photography, to photograph again.And this time, my wish was not to photograph anymorejust one animal that I had photographed all my life: us.I wished to photograph the other animals,to photograph the landscapes,to photograph us, but us from the beginning,the time we lived in equilibrium with nature.And I went. I started in the beginning of 2004,and I finished at the end of 2011.We created an incredible amount of pictures,and the result — Lélia did the design of all my books,the design of all my shows. She is the creator of the shows.And what we want with these picturesis to create a discussion about what we have that is pristine on the planetand what we must hold on this planetif we want to live, to have some equilibrium in our life.And I wanted to see uswhen we used, yes, our instruments in stone.We exist yet. I was last weekat the Brazilian National Indian Foundation,and only in the Amazon we have about 110 groupsof Indians that are not contacted yet.We must protect the forest in this sense.And with these pictures, I hope that we can createinformation, a system of information.We tried to do a new presentation of the planet,and I want to show you now just a few picturesof this project, please.
时间：11:58
zh-cn:呃，这个 （掌声）谢谢，非常感谢。
en:Well, this — (Applause) —Thank you. Thank you very much.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:这是我必须努力争取的让它保持现状但还有一部分我们需要一起重建。为了建设我们的社会，我们现代家庭社会，我们没办法回到从前，但我们创造了一个巨大的矛盾。为了建立这些，我们毁弃太多。我们在巴西的森林，那些古老的森林，曾经和加州面积一样大的森林现在有93%消失殆尽。这里，在西海岸，你们的森林被摧毁了。这里，不是吗？红木林也消失了。以非常快的速度，消失不见。两天前从亚特兰大搭乘飞机过来这里，在飞机上看到了这些我们人为造成的荒地。印度没有树木。西班牙没有树木。
en:This is what we must fight hardto hold like it is now.But there is another part that we must together rebuild,to build our societies, our modern family of societies,we are at a point where we cannot go back.But we create an incredible contradiction.To build all this, we destroy a lot.Our forest in Brazil, that antique forestthat was the size of California,is destroyed today 93 percent.Here, on the West Coast, you&#39;ve destroyed your forest.Around here, no? The redwood forests are gone.Gone very fast, disappeared.Coming the other day from Atlanta, here, two days ago,I was flying over desertsthat we made, we provoked with our own hands.India has no more trees. Spain has no more trees.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:我们必须重建这些森林。这是我们生命的本质，这些森林。我们需要呼吸。唯一能把二氧化碳转化为氧气的工厂只有森林。唯一能对抗我们人类生产排放的碳，即使减少，人类活动都会制造二氧化碳。能对抗碳的机器，只有树木。我提出这个问题——三周或四周以前，我们在报纸上看到挪威有数百万的鱼死亡因为水中缺氧。我问我自己，如果有一刻，所有物种缺乏氧气，包括人类自己 — — 那对我们来说会非常麻烦 。
en:And we must rebuild these forests.That is the essence of our life, these forests.We need to breathe. The only factorycapable to transform CO2 into oxygen,are the forests.The only machine capable to capture the carbonthat we are producing, always,even if we reduce them, everything that we do, we produce CO2,are the trees.I put the question — three or four weeks ago,we saw in the newspapersmillions of fish that die in Norway.A lack of oxygen in the water.I put to myself the question, if for a moment,we will not lack oxygen for all animal species,ours included — that would be very complicated for us.
时间：13:45
zh-cn:对水资源系统来说，树木是至关重要的。我要举一个简单的例子，你们就能很容易的理解。你们很幸运，头发茂盛，如果你去冲澡，不用吹风机如果你去冲澡，不用吹风机头发需要两到三小时才会变干。但对我，一分钟，就干了。树也是一样。树木是我们地球的头发。如果一个没有树木覆盖的地方下雨，只要在几分钟之内，水就会变成瀑布，带来泥沙，毁坏我们的水资源，毁坏我们的河流，无法再保持湿度。如果有树木的话，树根会蓄住水分，枝叶垂下来，制造一个湿润的环境，经过很长时间的蒸发，水分才会进入河流，就能保住我们的资源，保住我们的河流。这是最重要的事情，当我们想到我们生活的任何活动都需要水
en:For the water system, the trees are essential.I&#39;ll give you a small example that you&#39;ll understand very easily.You happy people that have a lot of hair on your head,if you take a shower, it takes youtwo or three hours to dry your hairif you don&#39;t use a dryer machine.Me, one minute, it&#39;s dry. The same with the trees.The trees are the hair of our planet.When you have rain in a place that has no trees,in just a few minutes, the water arrives in the stream,brings soil, destroying our water source,destroying the rivers,and no humidity to retain.When you have trees, the root system holds the water.All the branches of the trees, the leaves that come downcreate a humid area,and they take months and months under the water, go to the rivers,and maintain our source, maintain our rivers.This is the most important thing,when we imagine that we need water for every activity in life.
时间：14:50
zh-cn:我想给你们展示一些照片，作为结束，对我而言非常重要在这方面。你们记得我告诉过你们，当我从父母那里继承农场时，曾经的伊甸园，这个农场，满目疮夷，土地侵蚀干涸。但你们看这张照片，我们开始建设教育中心，后来成为巴西一个非常大的环境中心。但你们能看到图片中有很多小点每个点都是我们种的树有好几千棵。现在我会展示在几乎同样的地点拍摄的照片两个月以前拍的。
en:I want to show you now, to finish,just a few pictures that for meare very important in that direction.You remember that I told you,when I received the farm from my parentsthat was my paradise, that was the farm.Land completely destroyed, the erosion there, the land had dried.But you can see in this picture,we were starting to construct an educational centerthat became quite a large environmental center in Brazil.But you see a lot of small spots in this picture.In each point of those spots, we had planted a tree.There are thousands of trees.Now I&#39;ll show you the pictures made exactly in the same pointtwo months ago.
时间：15:38
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：15:47
zh-cn:我告诉你们，在最开始的时候，我们必须种植大概250万棵树木，共有大概200个不同品种来重建生态系统。现在我要展示最后一张照片。我们现在土地上有200万棵树。因为这些树木，我们抵扣了大约10万吨的碳排放量。
en:I told you in the beginning that it was necessaryfor us to plant about 2.5 million treesof about 200 different speciesin order to rebuild the ecosystem.And I&#39;ll show you the last picture.We are with two million trees in the ground now.We are doing the sequestrationof about 100,000 tons of carbon with these trees.
时间：16:11
zh-cn:朋友们，这个做起来很简单。我们做到了，不是吗？一个偶然的机会，我们回来了，我们建立了一个生态系统。我们在这个房间，我相信我们都有同样的考虑。我们在巴西建立的模式，可以移植到这里。我们可以应用到世界的每个角落，不是吗?我相信我们可以共同努力做到。
en:My friends, it&#39;s very easy to do. We did it, no?By an accident that happened to me,we went back, we built an ecosystem.We here inside the room,I believe that we have the same concern,and the model that we created in Brazil,we can transplant it here.We can apply it everywhere around the world, no?And I believe that we can do it together.
时间：16:38
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：16:39
zh-cn:掌声
en:(Applause)
