时间： 0:12
zh-cn:Sergey Brin:我要先讨论一个问题。我知道关于这个问题你们中的许多人已经想了很久了。几年前我们与大家交流过。那么今天在我开始之前，由于你们中的很多人都想知道答案我只想很快地说一下。答案就是：男士四角内裤。现在我希望你们都感觉好些了。
en:Sergey Brin: I want to discuss a questionI know that&#39;s been pressing on many of your minds.We spoke to you last several years ago.And before I get started today,since many of you are wondering,I just wanted to get it out of the way.The answer is boxers.Now I hope all of you feel better.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:你们知道这个可能是什么吗？有没有人知道那是什么？
en:Do you know what this might be? Does anyone know what that is?
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:观众：我知道。
en:Audience: Yes.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:SB：那是什么？
en:SB: What is it?
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:观众：是全球的人在登录Google。
en:Audience: It&#39;s people logging on to Google around the world.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:SB：哇啊，好的！ 当我第一次看到时，我真地不知道那是什么。但，是这个帮助我看清楚那是什么。这是我们在办公室里进行的工作。事实上，这是实时运转的。这儿只有很少一部分人登陆。可是，从这儿你可以看全世界有多少人在使用Google。而且这些每一个上升的点表示可能大约有二三十个搜索，或者类似的情况。现在，这些点都用不同的颜色和语言分别进行标注。
en:SB: Wow, OK. I didn&#39;t really realize what it was when I first saw it.But this is what helped me see it.This is what we run at the office, that actually runs real time.Here it&#39;s slightly logged.But here you can see around the worldhow people are using Google.And every one of those rising dotsrepresents probably about 20, 30 searches,or something like that.And they&#39;re labeled by color right now, by language.
时间： 1:15
zh-cn:所以你们可以看到：这儿我们是在美国，他们都是用红色显示的。那儿就是我们现在所在的城市蒙特雷—希望我说对了。你们可以看到夜间的日本很忙，就是那儿。我们将东京用日文标出。中国有很多活动。印度有很多活动。中东有一些活动，就是那些有很细光束的地方。那么，欧洲现在正值中午，所以流量非常大，涵盖了大量不同的语言。
en:So you can see: here we are in the U.S.,and they&#39;re all coming up red.There we are in Monterey — hopefully I can get it right.You can see that Japan is busy at night,right there.We have Tokyo coming in in Japanese.There&#39;s a lot of activity in China.There&#39;s a lot of activity in India.There&#39;s some in the Middle East, the little pockets.And Europe, which is right now in the middle of the day,is going really strong with a whole wide variety of languages.
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:现在，你们也可以看出来，如果我把它转到这儿—希望我不会把世界晃动地太厉害。不过你们也可以看出来：还有些地方活动并不那么多。如澳大利亚，因为那儿恰好没有那么多人。而这里则是我们应该好好努力的地方，那就是非洲，这儿只有几条特别细的光束。基本上都在南非和几个其它的城市。但是从根本上来说，我们所注意的是这些查询，这些查询每秒有成千上万条，只要有电源的地方，这些查询就会出现。另外，差不多每一处只要有电源的地方就会有互联网。甚至是在南极洲—当然，至少是每年的这个时候—我们不时地可以看到一条查询出现。而且，如果我们的图绘制准确的话，我认为国际空间站也会收到这样的查询。
en:Now you can also see, if I turn this around here —hopefully I won&#39;t shake the world too much.But you can also see, there are places where there&#39;s not so much.Australia, because there just aren&#39;t very many people there.And this is something that we should really work on,which is Africa, which is just a few trickles,basically in South Africa and a few other urban cities.But basically, what we&#39;ve noticed is these queries,which come in at thousands per second,are available everywhere there is power.And pretty much everywhere there is power, there is the Internet.And even in Antarctica — well, at least this time of year —we from time to time will see a query rising up.And if we had it plotted correctly,I think the International Space Station would have it, too.
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:因此，这就是我们所面临的一些挑战，你们所看到的是，实际上看到这个地方有点困难—好了，就是这儿。这就是我们怎么移动这些小块，以确保大家得到他们所问问题的答案。你们可以看到有很多数据在运转。这些数据必须得通过光纤、卫星以及各种各样的连接到达全球。而对于我们来说， 这是非常棘手的事情：将周期维持在尽可能低的范围内。 希望你们的体验还算愉快。可是，重申一下，你们也看得出：有一些地方要比其它地方铺设的线缆多得多，你们可以看到所有的宽带穿过美国到达处在另外一端的亚洲、欧洲等等。
en:So this issome of the challenge that we have here,is you can see that it&#39;s actually kind of hard to get the —there we go.This is how we have to move the bits aroundto actually get the people the answers to their questions.You can see that there&#39;s a lot of data running around.It has to go all over the world: through fibers,through satellites, through all kinds of connections.And it&#39;s pretty tricky for us to maintain the latenciesas low as we try to. Hopefully your experience is good.But you can see also, once again — so some places are much more wiredthan others, and you can see all the bandwidth across the U.S.,going up over to Asia, Europe in the other direction, and so forth.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:现在我要做的是向你们展示一下一秒钟内这种活动是什么样的。要是我们可以切换一下幻灯片的话好的，就是这儿。那么，这是被放慢的样子。这就是一秒钟内所看到的样子。而这正是我们花了很多时间做的事情，只想确保我们能够跟得上这种流量负载。现在，这些查询中的每一个问题都有了有趣的生命和自己的故事。我的意思是说：它可能是某个人的健康，可能是某个人的事业，对于他们来说都是很重要的事情。也很可能是诸如像番茄沙司一样重要的事情，或是像这个叫“番茄酱“的例子。
en:Now what I would like to do is just to show youwhat one second of this activity would look like.And if we can switch to slides —all right, here we go.So this is slowed down.This is what one second looks like.And this is what we spend a lot of our time doing,is just making sure that we can keep upwith this kind of traffic load.Now, each one of those querieshas an interesting life and tale of its own.I mean, it could be somebody&#39;s health,it could be somebody&#39;s career, something important to them.And it could potentially be somethingas important as tomato sauce,or in this case, ketchup.
时间： 4:37
zh-cn:那么这是我们收到的一条查询—我猜：这是一个很流行的乐队，这个乐队在世界上的一些地方比其他的地方更受欢迎。你们可以看到：它是从这儿开始的。在美国和西班牙同时开始流行。但是在美国的受关注度却没有像在西班牙的那么多。然后，从西班牙到了意大利，再后来是德国，德国很兴奋， 或许现在英国正在欣赏这支乐队。那么我想美国最终也开始喜欢这支乐队了。我只是给大家演示一下。
en:So this is a query that we had —I guess it&#39;s a popular band that was more popular in some parts of the world than others.You can see that it got started right here.In the U.S. and Spain, it was popular at the same time.But it didn&#39;t have quite the same pickup in the U.S.as it did in Spain.And then from Spain, it went to Italy,and then Germany got excited, and maybe right now the U.K. is enjoying it.And so I guess the U.S. finally,finally started to like it, too.And I just wanted to play it for you.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:不管怎样，你们大家可以自己去欣赏一下—希望那条搜索没问题。其中一部分—你们知道，作为壮大我们公司想要做的事情的一部分，那就是要有更多的搜索。也就是说我们想拥有更多身体健康和受过教育的人。或是更多的动物，如果他们也开始进行搜索的话。但是部分原因是：我们想要把这个世界变成一个更加美好的地方，因此我们正在着手做的一件事就是Google基金会，现在我们正处于筹建当中。
en:Anyway, you can all enjoy it for yourselves —hopefully that search will work.As a part of —you know, part of what we want to do to grow our companyis to have more searches.And what that means is we want to havemore people who are healthy and educated.More animals, if they start doing searches as well.But partly, we want to make the world a better place,and so one thing that we&#39;re embarking upon is the Google Foundation,and we&#39;re in the process of setting that up.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:同时，我们还有一个项目叫做Google Grants(面向公益组织的免费广告服务)，现在这个项目为全球超过150家不同的慈善机构服务,这些是其中的一些慈善机构。我非常激动自己能够是其中的一部分。事实上， 这里的很多组织—-如Acumen基金（睿智基金），我想我们正在运作的ApproTEC也进展得很好，不知道现在网上能否看到而且，许多在座的人也正在使用Google Grants。他们使用Google的广告服务，而我们则给他们广告积分，这样他们可以向一些组织宣传自己。
en:We also have a program already called Google Grantsthat now serves over 150 different charities around the world,and these are some of the charities that are on there.And it&#39;s something I&#39;m very excited to be a part of.In fact, many of the organizations that are here —the Acumen Fund, I think ApproTEC we have running, I&#39;m not sure if that one&#39;s up yet —and many of the people who have presented here are running through Google Grants.They run Google ads, and we just give them the ad creditso they can let organizations know.
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:我们最早的成果之一就是：我们有一位新加坡的商人现在正赞助一个越南村子里25个女孩的教育。那是最早的成果之一。正如我所说的那样，现在有许许多多的故事涌现，因为在那儿我们有成百上千个慈善机构在行动，而Google基金会将会更加竭诚努力。现在，谁知道这是什么？啊哈！
en:One of the earlier results that we got —we have a Singaporean businessman who is now sponsoring a villageof 25 Vietnamese girls for their education,and that was one of the earliest results. And as I said, now there have beenmany, many stories that have come in,because we do have hundreds of charities in there,and the Google Foundation will be an even broader endeavor.Now does anybody know who this is?A-ha!
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:观众：是Orkut。
en:Audience: Orkut.
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:SB: 对！ 有人已经知道了。是Orkut。有人用过Orkut吗？有没有人用过？好了，没有很多人知道Orkut。我马上会解释一下。他是我们的一个工程师。我们发现当他们藏身在树叶下面的时候，他们的工作表现更好。这也是我们如何推出产品的方式。Orkut有一个很好的主意，他要创建一个社交网络。我知道所有的人都在想：“又一个社交网络。”但，那是他的梦想，而我们基本上通常就是让他们去做， 如果他们确实想做些事情的话。而这个就是他所创建的。上个月我们刚发布了测试版，这个社交网站一直很受欢迎。
en:SB: Yes! Somebody got it.This is Orkut. Is anybody here on Orkut?Do we have any?Okay, not very many people know about it.I&#39;ll explain it in a second.This is one of our engineers.We find that they work better when they&#39;re submerged and covered with leaves.That&#39;s how we churn those products out.Orkut had a vision to create a social network.I know all of you are thinking, &quot;Yet another social network.&quot;But it was a dream of his, and we, basically,when people really want to do something, well, we generally let them.So this is what he built.We just released it in a test phase last month,and it&#39;s been taking off.
时间： 7:30
zh-cn:这是我们工程部的副总裁。你们能看到他红色的头发，不过我不知道你们能否看到他的鼻钉。这些人都是他的朋友。这是刚刚才开始进行的，这是我们刚刚决定的：人们通过相互发出邀请来使用这个服务，我们让公司的人先发出邀请。现在我们已经有超过10万名会员。实际上会员的范围扩展地非常迅速，甚至在美国之外的地方。
en:This is our VP of Engineering.You can see the red hair, and I don&#39;t know if you can see the nose ring there.And these are all of his friends.So this is how — we just deployed it —we just decided that people would send each other invitations to get into the service,and so we just had the people in our company initially send them out.And now we&#39;ve grown to over 100,000 members.And they spread, actually, very quickly, even outside the U.S.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:大家可以看出来，即使美国依然占大多数，顺便说一下，如果是跟搜索有关的话，美国只占我们总流量的百分之三十。但是，它已经扩展到了日本、英国和欧洲以及其他各国。所以，这是一个非常有意思的小项目。这里有各种不同的统计数据。我不会让你们看这些无聊的数据的。但，这只是我们为了有趣而尝试的东西，还要看看进展如何。那么，好了，我还得给你留一点悬念。Larry， 你可以解释一下这个。
en:You can see, even though the U.S. is still the majority here —though, by the way, search-wise, it&#39;s only about 30 percent of our traffic —but it&#39;s already going to Japan, and the U.K., and Europe,and all the rest of the countries.So it&#39;s a fun little project.There are a variety of demographics. I won&#39;t bore you with these.But it&#39;s just the kind of thing that we just try out for funand see where it goes.And —well, I&#39;ll leave you in suspense.Larry, you can explain this one.
时间： 8:30
zh-cn:Larry Page: 谢谢，Sergey。有一件事—Sergey和我都去过一所蒙特梭利学校，所以我觉得由于某种原因这已经被纳入了Google。刚才Sergey提到了Orkut，大家知道，这是Orkut本人在他私人时间想做的事情，而在Google，我们把它纳入进了Google的“百分之二十自由研究时间“，意思是说，如果你在Google工作，你有百分之二十的自由研究时间，可以做你自己认为最好的事情。而在Google有很多、很多的东西都诞生于这百分之二十的自由研究时间，比如说：Orkut以及Google资讯。我认为世界上有很多其它的事物也同样来自这样的业余时间。如： 奥地利遗传学家孟德尔, 本来他应该去教中学生，而大家知道，实际上他发现了遗传学法则。事实上，那只是他的一个业余爱好而已。因此，有很多有用的东西都是在业余时间里创造出来的。
en:Larry Page: Thank you, Sergey.So one of the things — both Sergey and Iwent to a Montessori school,and I think, for some reason,this has been incorporated in Google.And Sergey mentioned Orkut, which is something that,you know, Orkut wanted to do in his time,and we call this — at Google, we&#39;ve embodied this as &quot;the 20 percent time,&quot;and the idea is, for 20 percent of your time,if you&#39;re working at Google, you can do what you think is the best thing to do.And many, many things at Google have come out of that,such as Orkut and also Google News.And I think many other things in the world also have come out of this.Mendel, who was supposed to be teaching high-school students,actually, you know, discovered the laws of genetics —as a hobby, basically.So many, many useful things come out of this.
时间： 9:22
zh-cn:我刚才提到的Google资讯是由一个研究人员发起的。他是在9/11以后才对新闻真正开始感兴趣。他说，“为什么我不能更好地看新闻呢？”然后，他开始分类收集新闻，再开始使用这些新闻，而他的朋友们随后也开始使用这些新闻。然后，我们现在除了只去看婴儿漂亮的屁股之外，我们将它变成了Googlette (Google婴儿）也就是说，在Google这基本上是一个非常小的项目。
en:And News, which I just mentioned,was started by a researcher.And he just — he — after 9/11, he got really interested in the news.And he said, &quot;Why don&#39;t I look at the news better?&quot;And so he started clustering it by category,and then he started using it, and then his friends started using it.And then, besides just looking cute on a baby&#39;s bottom,we made it a Googlette,which is basically a small project at Google.
时间： 9:52
zh-cn:所以，那就像是三个人或类似的情况，他们试图开发一个产品。我们不是很确定这是否可行。而Google资讯这个案例，他们开始时有两三个人做了一阵子，然后越来越多的人开始使用Google资讯， 后来我们就把它放到网上，随后，有更多的人开始使用Google资讯。现在， 这已经是一个真正全面开发的项目，很多人都在为此工作。这就是我们如何保持我们创新精神的方式。
en:So it&#39;d be like three people, or something like that,and they would try to make a product.And we wouldn&#39;t really be sure if it&#39;s going to work or not.And in News&#39; case, you know, they had a couple of peopleworking on it for a while, and then more and more peoplestarted using it, and then we put it out on the Internet,and more and more people started using it.And now it&#39;s a real, full-blown project with more people on it.And this is how we keep our innovation running.
时间：10:15
zh-cn:我认为，通常当公司日益壮大时，他们发现开发小型、创新型产品真地非常困难。而我们有一阵子也有同样的问题，我们说：“嗨，我们确实需要一个新的概念。”大家知道Googlettes—-也就是一个我们目前不能确定是否可行的小项目。但是，我们希望它会成功， 如果我们有足够多的小项目，其中的一些就一定会奏效，可以成功，就像Google资讯一样。
en:I think usually, as companies get bigger,they find it really hard to have small, innovative projects.And we had this problem, too, for a while, and we said,&quot;Oh, we really need a new concept.&quot;You know, the Googlettes — that&#39;s a small project that we&#39;re not quite sure if it&#39;s going to work or not,but we hope it will, and if we do enough of them,some of them will really work and turn out, such as News.
时间：10:37
zh-cn:可是后来我们有了一个问题，因为那时我们有超过100个项目。我不知道你们大家的情况如何，要是让我脑袋里同时装着100件事情则不是一件容易的事情。我们发现如果我们把它们都写下来 ，然后排序—这些是虚构的。不用特别在意。比如，“购买冰岛”是来自一篇媒体的文章。我们永远不会做如此疯狂的事情。但是无论如何，我们发现如果我只是简单地把它们都写下来，按顺序排好，那么大多数人实际上都会同意这个排序。这对我来说有点意外，不过我们发现只要你们在大脑中有100件事，而你们的确也将他们写了下来，在决定做什么和如何配置资源时，你就会做得非常好。因此，这基本上就是几年前当我们公司创立时，我们所做的事情。我认为这种方式真正让我们敢于创新，而且直到现在我们依然保持合理、良好的组织秩序。
en:But then we had a problem because then we had over 100 projects.And I don&#39;t know about all of you,but I have trouble keeping 100 things in my head at once.And we found that if we just wrote all of them downand ordered them — and these are kind of made up.Don&#39;t really pay attention to them.For example, the &quot;Buy Iceland&quot; was from a media article.We would never do such a crazy thing, but —in any case, we found if we just basically wrote them all down and ordered them,that most people would actually agree what the ordering should be.And this was kind of a surprise to me, butwe found that as long as you keep the 100 things in your head,which you did by writing them down,that you could do a pretty good job deciding what to doand where to put your resources.And so that&#39;s basically what we&#39;ve donesince we instituted that a few years ago, and I think it has really allowed us to be innovativeand still stay reasonably well-organized.
时间：11:32
zh-cn:我们发现的另外一件事就是：大家喜欢做重要的事情，因此很自然，大家会差不多会优先处理当务之急的事情。我只想强调两三件新的事情，或者是大家可能不了解的事情。第一个就是Google桌面搜索。这是新事物—你们有多少人使用Google工具栏？请举手。
en:The other thing we discovered is that people like to work on things that are important,and so naturally,people sort of migrate to the things that are high priorities.I just wanted to highlight a couple of thingsthat are new, or you might not know about.And the top thing, actually, is the Deskbar.So this is a new — how many of you use the Google Toolbar?Raise your hands.
时间：11:56
zh-cn:有多少人用Google桌面搜索？好了，看见了吧？你们应该去试用一下。但是如果你们去我们的网站，搜索“桌面栏”，你就会看到这个。这个创意就是， 与工具栏不同，桌面搜索会始终在你桌面的下端，你可以很容易地进行搜索。它有些像是改进版的工具栏。谢谢，Sergey。
en:How many of you use the Deskbar?All right, see? You guys should try it out.But if you go to our site and searchfor &quot;Deskbar,&quot; you&#39;ll get this.And the idea is, instead of a toolbar, it&#39;s just present all the timeon your screen on the bottom,and you can do searches really easily.And it&#39;s sort of like a better version of the toolbar.Thank you, Sergey.
时间：12:20
zh-cn:这是另外一个例子。Google有个家伙对这个项目特别热衷，他们刚刚开始进行开发，但是，这是一个非常非常了不起的项目，非常走红。Google Answers （收费问答服务）是我们刚开始的一个项目，这个项目非常酷，可以让你花五到一百美元，输入一个问题，然后有一大群研究人员奔波为你做研究，而且这是有保证的，你能够得到非常好的答案而却不要亲自花时间做这些事情。
en:This is another example of a project that somebody at Googlewas really passionate about, and they just, they got going,and it&#39;s really, really a great product, and really taking off.Google Answers is something we started, which is really cool,which lets you — for five to 100 dollars,you can type a question in,and then there&#39;s a pool of researchersthat go out and research it for you, and it&#39;s guaranteed and all that,and you can get actually very good answers to thingswithout spending all that time yourself.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:Froogle (Google购物搜索) 让你搜索购物信息，Blooger让你可以出版发行。但是所有这些产品—当然，它们都是我们开发的各种创新产品。大家知道，在我们公司我们尝试许许多多不同的事物。在我们公司。我们也喜欢革新我们的物理空间。我们注意到：在开会时，你必须得等很长时间来开、关投影仪，而且它们的噪音很大，所以大家要把它们关掉。我们不喜欢那样，实际上我们用了两三周的时间制作了这些投影仪的小附件，那么现在我们可以一直让投影仪开着，而它们完全没有噪音。因此，我们也得以开发某个软件可以进行会议管理，所以现在当你走进会议室时，会议软件会将所有进行中的会议列出，你可以很轻松地做笔记，而且它们还可以自动发邮件给所有出席会议的人。
en:Froogle lets you search shopping information,and Blogger lets you publish things.But all of these — well, these were all sort of innovative things that we did that —you know, we try many, many different thingsin our company.We also like to innovate in our physical space,and we noticed in meetings, you know, you have to wait a long timefor projectors to turn on and off,and they&#39;re noisy, so people shut them off.And we didn&#39;t like that, so we actually,in maybe a couple of weeks, we built these little enclosuresthat enclosed the projectors, and so we can leave them on all the timeand they&#39;re completely silent.And as a result, we were able to build some softwarethat also lets us manage a meeting,so when you walk into a meeting room now,it lists all the meetings that are happening,you can very easily take notes, and they just get emailed automaticallyto all the people that were present in the meeting.
时间：13:35
zh-cn:随着我们日益成为一个更加全球化的公司，我们发现这些事情确实在影响着我们。我们可以跟不在这个房间里的人一起有效地工作吗？诸如此类。类似的小事情却可以让结果大不相同。在参加会议的人中也有很多是我们的工程师，虽然他们应该尽量勤洗衣服， 但他们却总是做不到。所以我们发现提供洗衣机非常有帮助，尤其是对我们比较年轻的员工而言。另外，我们也允许员工带着狗等等来上班。我认为我们公司已经形成了真正有趣的公司文化，这有助于大家工作和享受他们正在从事的事情。
en:And as we become more of a global company,we find these things really affect us —you know, can we work effectively with people who aren&#39;t in the room?And things like that. And simple things like this can really make a big difference.We also have a lot of engineers in those meetings,and they don&#39;t always do their laundry as much as they should.And so we found it was pretty helpfulto have laundry machines, for our younger employees especially, and ...we also allow dogs and things like that,and we&#39;ve had, I think, a really fun culture at our company,which helps people work and enjoy what they&#39;re doing.
时间：14:17
zh-cn:这实际上是我们一张很“时尚的照片。”我只想很快地让大家看一下。这张照片在我们的网站上放了一阵子，但是却发现自从我们把照片放到网站上，就再也没有人来申请工作了。但是无论如何，每年我们都会组织全公司的人去滑雪。许多公司的大量工作都是来自于大家非正式的接触和交流。我觉得我们已经做了一项很好的工作，我们鼓励这么做。这让公司成为一个非常有意思的工作场所。
en:This is actually our &quot;cult picture.&quot;I just wanted to show quickly.We had this on our website for a while,but we found that after we put it on our website,we didn&#39;t get any job applications anymore.But anyway, every year we&#39;ve takenthe whole company on a ski trip.A lot of work happens in companies from people knowing each other, and informally.And I think we&#39;ve done a good job encouraging that.It makes it a really fun place to work.
时间：14:48
zh-cn:那么我们的公司标志也是如此。当我们不断改变公司的标志时，我觉得这真正体现了我们的文化。最初的时候，有人实际上建议我们应该永远不要改变我们的标志，因为我们应该创立自己的品牌，因为通常大家永远都不想要改变自己的标志。你们希望它是始终如一的。而我们则说，“哎呀，那听上去很没意思。我们为什么不每天都变一下呢？ ”
en:Along with our logos, too, which I think really embodyour culture when we change things.In the early days, we were actually advisedwe should never change our logo becausewe should establish our brand, you know,because, you know, you&#39;d never want to change your logo.You want it to be consistent.And we said, &quot;Well, that doesn&#39;t sound so much fun.Why don&#39;t we try changing it every day?&quot;
时间：15:12
zh-cn:有一件真正让我为我们目前所做的事情感到激动的事就是：我们有这个名叫AdSense的产品，这是一点铺垫—这是从Howard Dean退出总统竞选以前开始的。这个主意就像是，比如说，在报纸上，我们给你展示相关的广告。这读起来很困难，不过它是关于Howard Dean的文章，说的是：“新罕布什尔州之战：Howard Dean竞选总统”。这些广告都是自动生成的比如这个华盛顿邮报的例子，它是从网站的内容自动生成的。那么我们利用我们超过15万的广告客户和几百万的广告， 我们选出一条与你正在看的内容最相关的广告，我们尽可能多做搜索。所以这个主意就是说我们可以让广告有用处，而不只是惹人厌烦，对吗？
en:One of the things that really excites me about what we&#39;re doing nowis we have this thing called AdSense,and this is a little bit foreshadowing —this is from before Dean dropped out.But the idea is, like, on a newspaper, for example,we show you relevant ads.And this is hard to read, but this says &quot;Battle for New Hampshire:Howard Dean for President&quot; — articles on Howard Dean.And these ads are generated automatically —like in this case, on the Washington Post —from the content on the site.And so we use our over 150,000 advertisersand millions of advertisements, so we pick the onethat&#39;s most relevant to what you&#39;re actually looking at,much as we do on search.So the idea is we can make advertising useful,not just annoying, right?
时间：15:55
zh-cn:关于AdSense好的方面是：我们有一个自助项目，成千上万的网站已经注册，而这可以让他们赚钱。你知道，我遇到过很多人，在一个聚会上我遇到了这位运营保护网站的家伙，他说：“你知道，我开始时不赚钱。我只是将AdSense放在我的网站上，现在我一个月可以赚一万块美元。谢谢你。我现在不需要做别的工作了。”而我觉得这对我们来说非常重要，因为这让互联网变得更好。它让网络内容变得更好，让搜索变得更好，人们能够谋生，要是他们可以制作好的网站内容。
en:And the nice thing about this,we have a self-serve program,and many thousands of websites have signed up,and this let&#39;s them really make money. And I —you know, there&#39;s a number of people I met —I met this guy who runs a conservation site at a party,and he said, &quot;You know, I wasn&#39;t making any money.I just put this thing on my site and I&#39;m making 10,000 dollars a month.And, you know, thank you.I don&#39;t have to do my other job now.&quot;And I think this is really important for us, because it makes the Internet work better.It makes content get better, it makes searching work better,when people can really make their livelihoodfrom producing great content.
时间：16:32
zh-cn:那么这一部分是关于将来的，所以我认为我至少要简单地谈一谈。在此背后的主意是：进行完美搜索，你必须得很聪明。因为，你们可以在Google上键入任何事情，而你期待有回复的答案，对吗？但是，搜索是很棘手的事，所以你非常想聪明些。实际上， 最终的搜索引擎会很聪明。以后的搜索引擎会是人工智能型。我们正在为此而努力，我们已经有一些对此极其兴奋和狂热的人正在为此努力，那就是他们的目标。所以，我们总是希望Google会很聪明，但是当其他人认为Google的确很聪明时， 我们又总是感到很惊讶。
en:So this session is supposed to be about the future,so I&#39;d thought I&#39;d talk at least briefly about it.And the idea behind this is to do the perfect job doing search,you really have to be smart.Because you can type, you know, any kind of thing into Google,and you expect an answer back, right?But finding things is tricky, and so you really want intelligence.And in fact, the ultimate search engine would be smart.It would be artificial intelligence.And so that&#39;s something we work on,and we even have some people who are excited enoughand crazy enough to work on it now,and that&#39;s really their goal.So we always hope that Google will be smart,but we&#39;re always surprised when other people think that it is.
时间：17:11
zh-cn:我只想给大家举一个非常可笑的例子。这是一个伊拉克的博客，这个博客并不是我要讲的内容， 但是我只想给大家看一个例子。Sergey，或许你可以突出显示一下。那么，我们决定了就是这的地方。 好的，谢谢你。
en:And so I just wanted to give a funny example of this.This is a blog from Iraq,and it&#39;s not really whatI&#39;m going to talk about, but I just wanted to show you an example.Maybe, Sergey, you can highlight this.So we decided —actually, the highlight&#39;s right there. Oh, thank you.
时间：17:33
zh-cn:那么， 这就是“相关搜索”，就是这儿。 你们可能看得不太清楚，但是我们决定要把这个功能放进我们的AdSense广告中去，叫做“相关搜索.”那么我们会说，“你是要‘搜索‘？以此为例—“你是要搜索“萨达姆•侯赛因‘ 吗？因为这个博客是关于伊拉克的。除了广告之外，我们觉得这会是个了不起的想法。
en:So, &quot;related searches,&quot; right there. You can&#39;t see it that well,but we decided we should put in this featureinto our AdSense ads, called &quot;related searches.&quot;And so we&#39;d say, you know, &quot;Did you mean &#39;search for&#39;&quot; — what is this,in this case, &quot;Saddam Hussein,&quot; because this blog is about Iraq —and you know, in addition to the ads,and we thought this would be a great idea.
时间：17:54
zh-cn:这是一个博客，博主是一个有点忧郁的年轻人，他写道，“我睡得很多。“他只是在写关于自己的生活。而我们的运算器—当然不是人算的，是我们的运算器，我们的电脑在读他的博客，然后决定相关搜索是，“我很无聊。”他读了以后认为是一个人认为他令人厌烦，这非常不幸，他又写，“这些Google的王八蛋在做什么？他们为什么不喜欢我的博客？”然后，我们读了他的博客，而事情变得越来越糟，我们认为相关搜索是，“弱智。”后来他更加生气，他写了像开始进行咒骂的话，等等。那么，我们又提出“你是个烂人。”最后，这个是以“滚开。”而结束。所以，从根本上来说，他认为他是在跟什么聪明的事物打交道，当然，我们才刚刚开始写这个程序，我们尝试了一下，结果不太理想，现在我们已经不用这个功能了。
en:And so there is this blogof a young person who was kind of depressed, and he said,&quot;You know, I&#39;m sleeping a lot.&quot;He was just kind of writing about his life.And our algorithms — not a person, of course,but our algorithms, our computers —read his blog and decided thatthe related search was, &quot;I am bored.&quot;And he read this, and he thought a person had decidedthat he was boring,and it was very unfortunate,and he said, &quot;You know, what are these, you know, bastards at Google doing?Why don&#39;t they like my blog?&quot;And so then we read his blog, which was getting — you know,sort of going from bad to worse,and we said the related search was, &quot;Retards.&quot;And then, you know, he got even more mad,and he wrote — like, started swearing and so on.And then we produced &quot;You suck.&quot;And finally, it ended with &quot;Kiss my ass.&quot;And so basically, he thought he was dealing with something smart,and of course, you know,we just sort of wrote this program and we tried it out,and it didn&#39;t quite work,and we don&#39;t have this feature anymore.
时间：19:04
zh-cn:说完了这个，或许现在我可以回到这个世界了。我想以此来结束：有一两件事是真正让我感到参与到Google中的兴奋与激动。其中之一就是我们能够大量通过广告赚钱，而其中我没有料到的收益之一就是：我们能够为世界上的任何人服务，却不用担心那些没有太多钱的地方。所以我们不必担心我们的产品被出卖，比如将我们的产品卖给那些贫穷的地方，然后再被进口到美国比如：和药品业一起被再进口到美国。
en:So with that, maybe I can switch back to the world.I wanted to end just by saying thatthere&#39;s a couple things that really make me excitedto be involved with Google,and one of those is that we&#39;re able to make moneylargely through advertising, and one of the benefits that I didn&#39;t expect from thatwas that we&#39;re able to serve everyone in the worldwithout worrying about, you know, places that don&#39;t have as much money.So we don&#39;t have to worry about our products being sold,for example, for less money in places that are poor,and then they get re-imported into the U.S. —for example, with the drug industry.
时间：19:39
zh-cn:我觉得能有这样一种商业模式，我们非常幸运，因为世界上每个人都可以使用我们的搜索。我认为这是一个巨大、惊人的效益。另一件我要简单说一下的事就是：我们拥有非凡的能力和责任感向大家提供准确的信息，我们把自己视为是报纸或杂志我们应该提供每一条客观的信息。
en:And I think we&#39;re really lucky to have that kind of business modelbecause everyone in the world has access to our search,and I think that&#39;s a tremendous, tremendous benefit.The other thing I wanted to mention just brieflyis that we have a tremendous ability and responsibilityto provide people the right information,and we view ourselves like a newspaper or a magazine —that we should provide very objective information.
时间：20:05
zh-cn:因此，在我们的搜索结果中， 我们从来不接受支付费用的搜索结果。我们接受广告费用，我们就是这样营销的。这不像我们的竞争对手。我认为我们能够做出这样的决定对整个世界产生了巨大的影响，让我为自己是Google的一员而感到真正自豪。谢谢大家。
en:And so in our search results, we never accept payment for our search results.We accept payment for advertising,and we mark it as such.And that&#39;s unlike many of our competitors.And I think decisions we&#39;re able to make like thathave a tremendous impact on the world,and it makes me really proud to be involved with Google.So thank you.
