时间： 0:13
zh-cn:你是否曾经担心过什么将置于你于死地？心脏病或者癌症还是车祸呢？我们大多数担心一些我们无法控制的事情比如战争、恐怖主义、或者是刚刚在海地发生的悲惨的地震。那么到底是什么真正地威胁着我们人类呢？几年前，Vaclav Smil教授就试图结算一种可能性来自于®突发性大灾难。这种灾难足使人类的历史得以改变。他称其这类灾难为“大规模致命间断性灾难”其意思就是它们将会造成超过一亿人的死亡。这将发生在在将来50年里。他观察到另一场世界大战大规模火山爆发甚至是小行星撞击地球的某种可能会发生的机会。他对比所有可能相似的事件从所有的事件当中，其中最为接近可能发生的事件就是严重的流感大流行。尽管你们可能认为流感只是很严重的感冒罢啦。但是它是致命的。每年在美国有36000人死于季节性流感。在发展中国家，这个数据更为高一些，其死亡的总数应该高出美国的死亡人数一大节。所存在的问题就是如果病毒偶尔变异甚至更为急剧的变异，从根本上来说，它就是一个新的病毒。那么之后，我们又将迎来新的流感大流行。
en:Do you worry about what is going to kill you?Heart disease, cancer,a car accident?Most of us worry about things we can&#39;t control,like war, terrorism,the tragic earthquake that just occurred in Haiti.But what really threatens humanity?A few years ago, Professor Vaclav Smiltried to calculate the probabilityof sudden disasterslarge enough to change history.He called these,&quot;massively fatal discontinuities,&quot;meaning that they could killup to 100 million peoplein the next 50 years.He looked at the odds of another world war,of a massive volcanic eruption,even of an asteroid hitting the Earth.But he placed the likelihood of one such eventabove all othersat close to 100 percent,and that is a severe flu pandemic.Now, you might think of fluas just a really bad cold,but it can be a death sentence.Every year, 36,000 people in the United Statesdie of seasonal flu.In the developing world, the data is much sketchierbut the death toll is almostcertainly higher.You know, the problem is ifthis virus occasionally mutatesso dramatically,it essentially is a new virusand then we get a pandemic.
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:在1989年，一种新的病毒出现这种病毒已经夺走了5000万到1亿人的性命。它的传播就像死野火一样迅速。一些人的流感症状正出现不久就死掉了。难道我们今天更为安全了吗？然而，我们看起来似乎逃过了一劫——发生在今年的致命性大流感。却让我们极为恐惧。这样流感会在任何时候再次爆发。有一个好消息是：我们在一个新的时代这个时代聚合了科学、技术、全球化创造了史无前例的可能性。这种可能性就是创造历史通过阻止传染病得以实现。然而由传染病造成的死亡人数占全球总死亡人数的五分之一，它还将在我们这个星球上创造无数悲剧。我们所要做的就是这些。我们正在阻止这几百人死去，运用现有的疫苗。如果我们可以让更多的人接种疫苗的话，我们当然肯定可以挽救更多人的生命。但是我们要是能使用最新的、更好的疫苗来预防疟疾、肺结核、艾滋病、肺炎、痢疾、流感，我们结束这种苦难。这种困难一直存在我们之上。
en:In 1918, a new virus appearedthat killed some 50 to 100 million people.It spread like wildfireand some died within hours of developing symptoms.Are we safer today?Well, we seem to have dodgedthe deadly pandemic this yearthat most of us feared,but this threat could reappear at any time.The good news is thatwe&#39;re at a moment in timewhen science, technology, globalization is convergingto create an unprecedented possibility:the possibility to make historyby preventing infectious diseasesthat still account for one-fifth of all deathsand countless misery on Earth.We can do this.We&#39;re already preventing millions of deathswith existing vaccines,and if we get these to more people,we can certainly save more lives.But with new or better vaccinesfor malaria, TB, HIV,pneumonia, diarrhea, flu,we could end sufferingthat has been on the Earth since the beginning of time.
时间： 2:44
zh-cn:所以我在这里向你们介绍一下疫苗。第一点，我得解释为什么它们这么对我们如此之重要。因为疫苗的威力正如低声细语一般。它们起作用的时候，它们正在改变着历史。可是之后你们几乎很难听见它们了。现在，我们中一些在年龄够大的人手臂上会留下一个小的、圆形的小疤痕。这是因为我们在小时候接种疫苗时候留下的印记。你最后一次担心天花疾病的时候，这种疾病在上个世纪已经夺走了近5亿人的性命。但现在难道已经不存在我们身边了吗？或者说小儿麻痹症——有多少人还记得铁肺？我们从没有看到这样的现象。是因为疫苗的出现。
en:So, I&#39;m here to trumpet vaccines for you.But first, I have to explain why they&#39;re importantbecause vaccines, the power of them,is really like a whisper.When they work, they can make history,but after a whileyou can barely hear them.Now, some of us are old enoughto have a small, circular scar on our armsfrom an inoculation we received as children.But when was the last time you worried about smallpox,a disease that killed half a billion people last centuryand no longer is with us?Or polio? How many of you remember the iron lung?We don&#39;t see scenes like this anymorebecause of vaccines.
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:现在你会感觉着挺有趣。因为新的30种奇特病毒已经能被疫苗预防住了。但是我们仍然受到艾滋病毒和流感的威胁。这又是为什么呢？这里我想让你们知道一个小小的但是有些肮脏的秘密。直到如今，我们从没有去了解过疫苗到底是怎样起作用的。我们所知道的是它们是通过旧式的反复试验得以实现其作用的。你得到一个病原体，你改良它。之后你把它注入人体或者动物身体里，这时你会看到发生什么。这个可以对付大多数的病原体，即使是一些狡诈的病原体，像流感病毒。但是对付艾滋病毒就不行了。因为人类对艾滋病毒没有天然的免疫性。
en:Now, it&#39;s interestingbecause there are 30-odd diseasesthat can be treated with vaccines now,but we&#39;re still threatened by things like HIV and flu.Why is that?Well, here&#39;s the dirty little secret.Until recently, we haven&#39;t had to knowexactly how a vaccine worked.We knew they worked through old-fashioned trial and error.You took a pathogen, you modified it,you injected it into a person or an animaland you saw what happened.This worked well for most pathogens,somewhat well for crafty bugs like flu,but not at all for HIV,for which humans have no natural immunity.
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:所以我们探索疫苗的起作用的方式。基本上来说，它们是创造一个为你的免疫系统武器的隐藏所之类的东西。当你需要的时候，你就可以通过它来部署武器。现在，当你病毒感染了，一切正常运转的是它会用几天或者几周的时间为你的身体奋力还击，它们会全力以赴去做。也许这太晚了些。如果你提前免疫的话，那么你将增强你身体的实力预先训练识别、并且击败这些诡异的病毒。这就是疫苗怎样起作用的。现在，让我们来看看一段视频这是我们在TED上初次亮相。将向你们展示感染性艾滋病毒怎样发生的。
en:So let&#39;s explore how vaccines work.They basically create a cacheof weapons for your immune systemwhich you can deploy when needed.Now, when you get a viral infection,what normally happens is it takes days or weeksfor your body to fight backat full strength,and that might be too late.When you&#39;re pre-immunized,what happens is you have forces in your bodypre-trained to recognizeand defeat specific foes.So that&#39;s really how vaccines work.Now, let&#39;s take a look at a videothat we&#39;re debuting at TED, for the first time,on how an effective HIV vaccine might work.
时间： 4:45
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:叙述者：疫苗预先训练我们身体怎样识别和压制特殊的入侵者。一旦艾滋病毒穿过身体黏膜障碍，它就开始破坏免疫细胞不断进行自我复制。入侵者会吸引人体免疫系统“前线部队”的注意力。如：树突细胞、巨噬细胞，抓住病毒，同时展现它的每一部分。艾滋病毒产生的记忆细胞一旦他们学会了，就会被激活。艾滋病病毒碰到人体的“前线部队”艾滋病病毒的记忆细胞迅速分派适当的武器。记忆细胞B变成血浆细胞，而血浆细胞会产生一波又一波特殊抗体。这些抗体将会抓住艾滋病病毒以其组织艾滋病病毒感染其他的细胞。杀手T细胞中队会寻找并破坏被艾滋病病毒感染的细胞。病毒就这样被打败了。如果没有疫苗，我们身体可能会要一周多时间才会对病毒作出反应。到那时，与艾滋病病毒的战斗必然是失败的了。
en:Narrator: A vaccine trains the body in advancehow to recognize and neutralizea specific invader.After HIV penetrates the body&#39;s mucosal barriers,it infects immune cells to replicate.The invader draws the attentionof the immune system&#39;s front-line troops.Dendritic cells, or macrophages,capture the virus and display pieces of it.Memory cells generated by the HIV vaccineare activated when they learnHIV is present from the front-line troops.These memory cells immediately deploythe exact weapons needed.Memory B cells turn into plasma cells,which produce wave after waveof the specific antibodiesthat latch onto HIVto prevent it from infecting cells,while squadrons of killer T cellsseek out and destroy cellsthat are already HIV infected.The virus is defeated.Without a vaccine,these responses would have taken more than a week.By that time, the battle against HIVwould already have been lost.
时间： 6:04
zh-cn:Seth Berkley：非常酷的视频，难道不是吗？你们刚刚所看到视频里的抗体的行为那就是大部分疫苗起作用的过程。所以真正的问题就是：我们怎眼确保我们的身体能产生我们所需要的抗体抵抗流感和艾滋病病毒呢？面对大部分病毒最大的挑战就是病毒总是在变换。我们一起来看一看流感病毒。在这个流感病毒示意图中，那些不同颜色尖状物就是病毒用来感染你的身体的。同样也是抗体用来抓住并且压制这些病毒。一旦病毒开始变异，它们开始改变自己形状，抗体这时候就难以识别这些病毒。所以这就是每一年，为什么你总是感染这些与众不同的流感病毒的原因了。这也就是，为什么每年春天我们可以做好的设想一下，至少三类病毒会在明年流行的原因。我们把这些病毒制作出一种疫苗，在秋季加紧投入生产。
en:Seth Berkley: Really cool video, isn&#39;t it?The antibodies you just saw in this video,in action, are the ones that make most vaccines work.So the real question then is:How do we ensure that your body makesthe exact ones that we need to protectagainst flu and HIV?The principal challenge for both of these virusesis that they&#39;re always changing.So let&#39;s take a look at the flu virus.In this rendering of the flu virus,these different colored spikes are what it uses to infect you.And also, what the antibodies use is a handleto essentially grab and neutralize the virus.When these mutate, they change their shape,and the antibodies don&#39;t know what they&#39;re looking at anymore.So that&#39;s why every yearyou can catch a slightly different strain of flu.It&#39;s also why in the spring,we have to make a best guessat which three strains are going to prevail the next year,put those into a single vaccineand rush those into production for the fall.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:可是更糟糕的是，大部分流感病毒，流感病毒A会感染动物。而那些动物就是生活在人类身边。病毒会在这些动物中再次 重组。还有就是，野生水生鸟类会携带众所周知多种流行性感冒病毒。你们已经处在这种情况当中了。2003年，我们遭遇一种H5N1病毒。它能从鸟类传染到人类在一些个例中出现这种情况。这种病毒造成了70%的死亡率。现在幸运的是尽管一些特殊的病毒在一段时间令人恐惧害怕，但是它们不会在人与人之间传播那样轻易地传播。今年的H1N1病毒其实是人类、飞禽、猪的混合病毒。这种病毒首先在墨西哥产生。这种病毒很容易传播，但幸运的是，它传染性并没有那没强。所以，在某种意义上，我们仍是很幸运的，但是你们知道，在任何时候，另一只鸟就从天空飞过。
en:Even worse,the most common influenza — influenza A —also infects animalsthat live in close proximity to humans,and they can recombinein those particular animals.In addition, wild aquatic birdscarry all known strainsof influenza.So, you&#39;ve got this situation:In 2003,we had an H5N1 virusthat jumped from birds into humansin a few isolated caseswith an apparent mortality rate of 70 percent.Now luckily, that particular virus,although very scary at the time,did not transmit from person to personvery easily.This year&#39;s H1N1 threatwas actually a human, avian, swine mixturethat arose in Mexico.It was easily transmitted,but, luckily, was pretty mild.And so, in a sense,our luck is holding out,but you know, another wild bird could fly over at anytime.
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:现在我们来看看艾滋病病毒。正如流感一样多变的艾滋病毒让流感病毒相形见绌就像直布罗陀海峡的岩石不起眼。艾滋病毒是最狡猾，最难缠的病毒也是科学家面对的最难对付的病毒。艾滋病毒急剧变异。它甚至可以躲骗过免疫系统。它会攻击那些抗击它的免疫细胞。之后它会迅速的隐藏自己。艾滋病毒隐藏在你的基因组里。这里幻灯片向我们展示的是流感基因多变性相比艾滋病毒，艾滋病毒是一个更为使人迷惑的目标。在之前你们在视频中看到从感染细胞中产生出一组新的病毒。现在我们意识到这样的情形发生在每一个感染的人身体内，它们有成千上百万个，但是每一个都稍有不同。所以要寻找到识别并且击败所有的病毒的有效的武器这是一件更为艰难的事。
en:Now let&#39;s take a look at HIV.As variable as flu is,HIV makes flulook like the Rock of Gibraltar.The virus that causes AIDSis the trickiest pathogenscientists have ever confronted.It mutates furiously,it has decoys to evade the immune system,it attacks the very cells that are trying to fight itand it quickly hides itselfin your genome.Here&#39;s a slide looking atthe genetic variation of fluand comparing that to HIV,a much wilder target.In the video a moment ago,you saw fleets of new viruses launching from infected cells.Now realize that in a recently infected person,there are millions of these ships;each one is just slightly different.Finding a weapon that recognizesand sinks all of themmakes the job that much harder.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:自从艾滋病毒被确认为引起艾滋病的原凶以来，已经有27年了。我们已经研制了越来越多的药物来治疗艾滋病然而艾滋病毒会所有的病毒聚集起来。这使这些药物难以达到治疗效果。但是这已经表明我们科学的（在对艾滋病毒的战斗中） 巨大的胜利因为这些药物让艾滋病不再等同于宣判死刑至少对于那些能接触到药物的人来说尽管疫苗的作用实际上完全不同。一些大公司也不再做疫苗之类，因为他们认为科学如此艰难而做疫苗却又是这样不赚钱的业务。很多人都认为研制出艾滋病毒的疫苗简直是天方夜谭。但是现在，证据显示这是有可能的。
en:Now, in the 27 years since HIVwas identified as the cause of AIDS,we&#39;ve developed more drugs to treat HIVthan all other viruses put together.These drugs aren&#39;t cures,but they represent a huge triumph of sciencebecause they take away the automatic death sentencefrom a diagnosis of HIV,at least for those who can access them.The vaccine effort though is really quite different.Large companies moved away from itbecause they thought the science was so difficultand vaccines were seen as poor business.Many thought that it was just impossible to make an AIDS vaccine,but today, evidence tells us otherwise.
时间： 9:40
zh-cn:今年九月，我们有一个令人惊奇和令人兴奋的发现。在泰国的临床实验中得以这一发现的。这是我们第一次发现艾滋病毒在人体中怎样进行的，尽管我们的发现是有限的。一种特殊的疫苗在十多年前就研制出来了。更新的理念和最近的测试显示在动物样本中有着很好的前景。但是在过去的几个月中，研究人员已经从感染艾滋病毒个体的血液中分离出新的一种有着明显的防御能力的抗体。那这意味着什么呢？早些时候我们看到艾滋病毒是急剧变化的病毒。这种具有广泛中和能力的抗体能依附并并且破坏病毒的多种变化能力。如果你取得这样疫苗并且把它注入猴子样本中，抗体应对感染提供全面的保护。另外，这些研究院发现艾滋病毒新的点抗体抓住的地方。这一点特别就是抗体不会改变在病毒变异的时候。这就好像 尽管病毒换了自己衣服，但是它仍然穿着同样的短袜。现在我们的工作就是让我们的身体厌恶这些短袜。
en:In September,we had surprising but exciting findingsfrom a clinical trial that took place in Thailand.For the first time, we saw an AIDS vaccine work in humans —albeit, quite modestly —and that particular vaccine was madealmost a decade ago.Newer concepts and early testing nowshow even greater promise in the best of our animal models.But in the past few months, researchers have also isolatedseveral new broadly neutralizing antibodiesfrom the blood of an HIV infected individual.Now, what does this mean?We saw earlier that HIVis highly variable,that a broad neutralizing antibodylatches on and disablesmultiple variations of the virus.If you take these and you put themin the best of our monkey models,they provide full protection from infection.In addition, these researchers founda new site on HIVwhere the antibodies can grab onto,and what&#39;s so special about this spotis that it changes very littleas the virus mutates.It&#39;s like, as many timesas the virus changes its clothes,it&#39;s still wearing the same socks,and now our job is to make surewe get the body to really hate those socks.
时间：10:57
zh-cn:这就是我们现在处境。泰国实验结果告诉我们我们能研制出艾滋病毒疫苗。抗体的发现告诉我们我们能做到。这样的策略，我们返回我们之前工作从抗体到制造出预选疫苗。在疫苗研究之前这从未这样做过。我们称这一过程为还原接种疫苗学。这一理论的应用已经超出艾滋病领域。所以我们想到这中方法。我们已经取得了这些我们确认的新的抗体我们知道这些疫苗能抓住很多多变的病毒。我们知道疫苗能抓住特殊的病毒。所以我们能构想出这些病毒更为精确的结构通过疫苗就可以做到。我们希望我们能促使你们的免疫系统产生相匹配的抗体。这样能将产生一种通用的艾滋病毒疫苗。现在，这听起来挺容易的。因为它的结构的确看起来像这种蓝色抗体简图一样粘附在黄色节点。正如你们可以想象的，这些三位结构图是非常更为难以制作的。如果你们能有想法帮助我们解决这问题，我们很愿意听听你的想法。
en:So what we&#39;ve got is a situation.The Thai results tell uswe can make an AIDS vaccine,and the antibody findingstell us how we might do that.This strategy, working backwardsfrom an antibody to create a vaccine candidate,has never been done before in vaccine research.It&#39;s called retro-vaccinology,and its implications extendway beyond that of just HIV.So think of it this way.We&#39;ve got these new antibodies we&#39;ve identified,and we know that they latch onto many, many variations of the virus.We know that they have to latch onto a specific part,so if we can figure out the precise structure of that part,present that through a vaccine,what we hope is we can promptyour immune system to make these matching antibodies.And that would createa universal HIV vaccine.Now, it sounds easier than it isbecause the structure actually looks more likethis blue antibody diagramattached to its yellow binding site,and as you can imagine, these three-dimensional structuresare much harder to work on.And if you guys have ideas to help us solve this,we&#39;d love to hear about it.
时间：12:04
zh-cn:但是，现在，我们对艾滋病研究的确帮助我们发明其他病毒的疫苗。例如，一个生物科技公司现在已经发现对付流感广泛中和能力的抗体。以及针对流感病毒的新的抗体。他们正在研制一种鸡尾酒一种鸡尾酒类型的抗体。这种能抗体能治疗严重的流感例子。现在，长远来看，我们能做的使用还原接种技术来生产防御性流感疫苗。现在，还原接种技术是一种在所谓理性疫苗设计范围内的技术。
en:But, you know, the research that has occurred from HIV nowhas really helped with innovation with other diseases.So for instance, a biotechnology companyhas now found broadly neutralizingantibodies to influenza,as well as a new antibody target on the flu virus.They&#39;re currently making a cocktail —an antibody cocktail — that can be used to treatsevere, overwhelming cases of flu.In the longer term, what they can dois use these tools of retro-vaccinologyto make a preventive flu vaccine.Now, retro-vaccinology is just one techniquewithin the ambit of so-called rational vaccine design.
时间：12:41
zh-cn:我再给你另一个例子。我们之前所说到 在流感病毒表面的H和M的刺突。注意看到这些其他的更小的突起物。这些突起物都隐藏在疫苗系统里。现在结果证明的这些节点在病毒变异之时并没有改变。如果你的身体特定的抗体能损害这些病毒，那么你的身体就能抵抗所有这类的流感。到现在为止，动物测试显示这样一种疫苗能抵抗预防这些病毒。尽管你会感染一些轻微的流感。如果这些疫苗子运用在人身体中，我们说道的就是一种通用的疫苗。这样我们不要每年在去研制改变。最终我们会抹掉这种死亡威胁。实际上，我们认为这样流感就仅仅是一次重感冒。
en:Let me give you another example.We talked about before the H and N spikeson the surface of the flu virus.Notice these other, smaller protuberances.These are largely hidden from the immune system.Now it turns out that these spotsalso don&#39;t change much when the virus mutates.If you can cripple these with specific antibodies,you could cripple all versions of the flu.So far, animal tests indicatethat such a vaccine could prevent severe disease,although you might get a mild case.So if this works in humans, what we&#39;re talking aboutis a universal flu vaccine,one that doesn&#39;t need to change every yearand would remove the threat of death.We really could think of flu, then,as just a bad cold.
时间：13:26
zh-cn:当然，可以想象的最好的疫苗在某种程度上是有价值的。我们给疫苗给那些需要的每一个人。所以为了达到这样目的，我们不得不把巧妙的疫苗设计与精细生产方法以及聪明的销售方式相结合。你们回想几个月前。六月份，世界卫生组织宣布41年来第一个全球流感病毒。美国政府承诺15亿剂疫苗将会在10月15日生产出来以应对流感高峰。同样也承诺会向发展中国家提供这些疫苗。数亿美元将会花费在提高疫苗的产量上。在之前我们又是怎样的？
en:Of course, the best vaccine imaginableis only valuable to the extentwe get it to everyone who needs it.So to do that, we have to combinesmart vaccine design with smart production methodsand, of course, smart delivery methods.So I want you to think back a few months ago.In June, the World Health Organizationdeclared the first globalflu pandemic in 41 years.The U.S. government promised150 million doses of vaccineby October 15th for the flu peak.Vaccines were promised to developing countries.Hundreds of millions of dollars were spentand flowed to accelerating vaccine manufacturing.So what happened?
时间：14:04
zh-cn:那时我们首先想到怎样研制疫苗，怎样生产这些疫苗。那是在20世纪40年代初期。那是一段缓慢而复杂的过程。因为我们整个过程都要依赖鸡蛋，上百万的活鸡蛋。病毒只能通过这样活鸡蛋才能生长。的确最后也证明这一点。对于流感，鸡蛋相当有用。对于大部分种类病毒，你可能每个鸡蛋会产出一到两剂疫苗。我们是幸运的。我们生活在生物医药飞速发展的时代。即使是今天，我们的流感疫苗也是来自这些鸡蛋。（笑声）来自这些数以亿计的鸡蛋。这些几乎没有改变过。系统是可靠的。但是现在问题是，你们不知道一种病毒是怎样生产的。今年猪流感病毒在早期生产中很难生产基本上，每只蛋产6剂疫苗。这可是一种令人害怕的想法。如果野生飞禽又飞回来，那又会怎么样呢？你可能都知道禽流感病毒能感染家禽。那时，我们就没有生产疫苗的鸡蛋了。Dan，如果你想要上百亿个鸡蛋来自你们的农场。我知道哪里可以得到这些鸡蛋。现在全球能生产3.5亿剂3种流感病毒的疫苗。我们能提产到12亿剂疫苗。如果我们只生产一类病毒的疫苗例如猪流感。但是我们想到我们的工厂正在热火生产因为，2004年，美国产量减产一般是由于一种疫苗受到污染。这一生产过程需要半年多的时间。
en:Well, we first figured outhow to make flu vaccines, how to produce them,in the early 1940s.It was a slow, cumbersome processthat depended on chicken eggs,millions of living chicken eggs.Viruses only grow in living things,and so it turned out that, for flu,chicken eggs worked really well.For most strains, you could get one to two dosesof vaccine per egg.Luckily for us,we live in an era of breathtakingbiomedical advances.So today, we get our flu vaccines from ...chicken eggs,(Laughter)hundreds of millions of chicken eggs.Almost nothing has changed.The system is reliablebut the problem is you never know how wella strain is going to grow.This year&#39;s swine flu straingrew very poorly in early production:basically .6 doses per egg.So, here&#39;s an alarming thought.What if that wild bird flies by again?You could see an avian strainthat would infect the poultry flocks,and then we would have no eggs for our vaccines.So, Dan [Barber], if you wantbillions of chicken pelletsfor your fish farm,I know where to get them.So right now, the world can produceabout 350 million dosesof flu vaccine for the three strains,and we can up that to about 1.2 billion dosesif we want to target a single variantlike swine flu.But this assumes that our factories are hummingbecause, in 2004,the U.S. supply was cut in halfby contamination at one single plant.And the process still takesmore than half a year.
时间：15:50
zh-cn:我们现在是否比我们1918年那时准备更好吗？当然，随着新科技兴起，我希望我们可以确定的说“是”。想象一下，如果我们能为全球生产足够的流感疫苗。但是我们只要花费现在在美国疫苗生产费用一半还好少。我们运用新技术这是可以实现的。这里有一个例子。我之前工作过家公司已经发现一种H刺突流感病毒。这种病毒能激发免疫系统。如果你能消除这种病毒，并且把它粘附在另一种不同细菌的尾巴上。这样就可以激起免疫系统的反应。他们已经研制出一种强有力的流感病毒战士。这种疫苗相当的微小。这种疫苗能普通的细菌中就能产生。现在这种细菌繁殖非常快速。这就好像制造酸奶一样。所以我们能在几个工厂就能在几周内生产猪流感病毒。但是我们并不需要使用鸡蛋。而且我们只要花费现在生产方式的费用的一小部分就可以了。
en:So are we better preparedthan we were in 1918?Well, with the new technologies emerging now,I hope we can say definitively, &quot;Yes.&quot;Imagine we could produce enough flu vaccinefor everyone in the entire worldfor less than half of what we&#39;re currently spendingnow in the United States.With a range of new technologies, we could.Here&#39;s an example:A company I&#39;m engaged with has founda specific piece of the H spike of fluthat sparks the immune system.If you lop this off and attach itto the tail of a different bacterium,which creates a vigorous immune response,they&#39;ve created a very powerful flu fighter.This vaccine is so smallit can be grown in a common bacteria, E. coli.Now, as you know, bacteria reproduce quickly —it&#39;s like making yogurt —and so we could produce enough swine origin flufor the entire world in a few factories, in a few weeks,with no eggs,for a fraction of the cost of current methods.
时间：16:48
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：16:53
zh-cn:这只是几种疫苗新科技的比较。除了根本上提高产量和大幅度节约生产成本之外，就我们刚才说道的E.coli方法，这种方法还节约了时间，这就意味着拯救更多生命。发展中国家大部分发展中国家脱离了时代的潮流，他们却看到了这种替代技术的巨大潜力。他们正在超越西方的发达国家。印度、墨西哥以及其他发展中国家正在做流感疫苗的实验。他们也许处于领先地位。我们看到这种疫苗的用途性因为这些技术如此高效率而且相对便宜。那么几十亿的普通大众也能接种这种救命的疫苗。如果我们构想出销售这些疫苗方式。
en:So here&#39;s a comparison of several of these new vaccine technologies.And, aside from the radically increased productionand huge cost savings —for example, the E. coli method I just talked about —look at the time saved: this would be lives saved.The developing world,mostly left out of the current response,sees the potential of these alternate technologiesand they&#39;re leapfrogging the West.India, Mexico and others are alreadymaking experimental flu vaccines,and they may be the first placewe see these vaccines in use.Because these technologies are so efficientand relatively cheap,billions of people can have access to lifesaving vaccinesif we can figure out how to deliver them.
时间：17:35
zh-cn:最近我们在想我们在研究的新的感染性的疾病一次又一次的出现。每隔几年都会出现。某一天，也许很快又会出现一种威胁我们的新的病毒。然而这次我们将最快作出反应在百万人逝去之前，我们将做到。幸运的是，今年的流感病毒相对微弱。我刚说“幸运”因为在过去发展中国家几乎没有一人接种过疫苗。如果那些有着政治和金融远见的投资者来持续我们对疫苗生产的投资。我们将掌握疫苗技术的新工具。运用这些新工具，我们能生产出低廉的，普通大众都买得起的疫苗。这样可以保障那些健康而充实有效的生命。每年流感不会再夺走50多万的生命了。每年艾滋病也不会再夺走200多万的生命。不论是贫穷或嬴弱的人们也不会在受到感染性疾病的威胁饿了。的确，不会威胁到任何人。然而不会再有Vaclav Smil’s这样的大规模非持续性致命疾病了。我们能保证生命的延续。现在世界需要的就是这些新的疫苗，我们能生产出来。
en:Now think of where this leads us.New infectious diseasesappear or reappearevery few years.Some day, perhaps soon,we&#39;ll have a virus that is going to threaten all of us.Will we be quick enough to reactbefore millions die?Luckily, this year&#39;s flu was relatively mild.I say, &quot;luckily&quot; in partbecause virtually no one in the developing worldwas vaccinated.So if we have the political and financial foresightto sustain our investments,we will master these and new tools of vaccinology,and with these tools we can produceenough vaccine for everyone at low costand ensure healthy productive lives.No longer must flu have to kill half a million people a year.No longer does AIDSneed to kill two million a year.No longer do the poor and vulnerableneed to be threatened by infectious diseases,or indeed, anybody.Instead of having Vaclav Smil&#39;s&quot;massively fatal discontinuity&quot; of life,we can ensurethe continuity of life.What the world needs now are these new vaccines,and we can make it happen.
时间：18:45
zh-cn:非常感谢！
en:Thank you very much.
时间：18:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：18:55
zh-cn:Chris Anderson ：谢谢。（掌声）谢谢科学日新月异变化着。在你看来，我的意思是，你在想什么时候，就拿艾滋病毒来说，我们会使用上这种已经存在的游戏替换式疫苗呢？
en:Chris Anderson: Thank you.(Applause)Thank you.So, the science is changing.In your mind, Seth — I mean, you must dream about this —what is the kind of time scaleon, let&#39;s start with HIV,for a game-changing vaccine that&#39;s actually out there and usable?
时间：19:20
zh-cn:SB：任何时候游戏不断替换。因为我们现在的面对的问题是正如我们刚才向你们展现疫苗在人体如何工作的。我们需要更好的一种。人类的身体可以使用这类抗体就可以对抗病毒。如果我们知道它们怎么工作的，之后我们就研制出疫苗。正真有趣的是有些迹象证明我们已经开始解决这些问题。所以研制速度仍是我们的一大挑战。
en:SB: The game change can come at any time,because the problem we have now iswe&#39;ve shown we can get a vaccine to work in humans;we just need a better one.And with these types of antibodies, we know humans can make them.So, if we can figure out how to do that,then we have the vaccine,and what&#39;s interesting is there already issome evidence that we&#39;re beginning to crack that problem.So, the challenge is full speed ahead.
时间：19:40
zh-cn:CA：在你开来，你是否认为还要五年的时间才研制出下一种疫苗呢？
en:CA: In your gut, do you think it&#39;s probably going to be at least another five years?
时间：19:42
zh-cn:SB：每个人都说要十年，但是几十年已经过去了。我个人不喜欢给科学发明一种时间限制。那是那些投入研究的资金正在用于支付股东红利。
en:SB: You know, everybody says it&#39;s 10 years,but it&#39;s been 10 years every 10 years.So I hate to put a timelineon scientific innovation,but the investments that have occurred are now paying dividends.
时间：19:53
zh-cn:CA：它们与通用的流感疫苗是同样的吗？
en:CA: And that&#39;s the same with universal flu vaccine, the same kind of thing?
时间：19:56
zh-cn:SB：我认为流感是不同的。一旦我们遇到一大股的流感时——正如我们刚刚展示的，我们有一批相当酷而且非常有用的技术已经准备好了。它们看起来不错。还有一个问题我们过去投资在传统技上。因为那是过去合适的方式。你也能用一种你混合化学用品的佐剂。这也正是欧洲国家在做的，要是我们能稀释出我们提供的流感病毒，然后研制出更多的。但是，说道MichaelSpecter 说的话，抗疫苗的病毒可不希望这样的事 发生。
en:SB: I think flu is different. I think what happened with flu iswe&#39;ve got a bunch — I just showed some of this —a bunch of really cool and useful technologies that are ready to go now.They look good. The problem has been that,what we did is we invested in traditional technologiesbecause that&#39;s what we were comfortable with.You also can use adjuvants, which are chemicals you mix.That&#39;s what Europe is doing, so we could have diluted outour supply of flu and made more available,but, going back to what Michael Specter said,the anti-vaccine crowd didn&#39;t really want that to happen.
时间：20:23
zh-cn:CA：疟疾疫苗实现当落后了吧？
en:CA: And malaria&#39;s even further behind?
时间：20:25
zh-cn:SB：不，疟疾，我们已经早期试验中发现一种疟疾疫苗候选者表现非常有效。现在已经进入了第三阶段的实验。它现在可能不是那没完美的疫苗，但是它正在改进中。
en:SB: No, malaria, there is a candidatethat actually showed efficacy in an earlier trialand is currently in phase three trials now.It probably isn&#39;t the perfect vaccine, but it&#39;s moving along.
时间：20:35
zh-cn:CA：Seth，像我们大家一样每个月工作像我们一样，制作一些东西。我们会感到非常快乐。你们已经投入研究这一领域有十多年了。我得向你和你的同事致敬，以及你们的研究成果。这个世界需要像你们这样的一类人。谢谢你们！
en:CA: Seth, most of us do work where every month,we produce something;we get that kind of gratification.You&#39;ve been slaving away at this for more than a decade,and I salute you and your colleagues for what you do.The world needs people like you. Thank you.
时间：20:49
zh-cn:SB：谢谢。
en:SB: Thank you.
时间：20:51
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
