时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我11岁那年，记得有一天早晨醒来，听见家里有愉悦的声音。我的父亲在用他的灰色小收音机听BBC新闻。他面带笑容，这很少见，因为大部分的新闻都只会使他沮丧。
en:When I was 11,I remember waking up one morning to the sound of joy in my house.My father was listening to BBC Newson his small, gray radio.There was a big smile on his face which was unusual then,because the news mostly depressed him.
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:“塔利班走了！” 父亲大声叫着。
en:&quot;The Taliban are gone!&quot; my father shouted.
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:我不知道那意味着什么，但是我能看出父亲非常非常高兴。
en:I didn&#39;t know what it meant,but I could see that my father was very, very happy.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:“你现在可以去个真正的学校念书了。” 他说。
en:&quot;You can go to a real school now,&quot; he said.
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:我永远不会忘记那个早晨。一个真正的学校。我6岁那年，塔利班占领阿富汗并规定女孩上学是违法的。所以在那之后5年，我女扮男装陪着我姐姐去一个秘密学校姐姐那时已经不被允许独自外出了。这是我们俩人唯一的受教育方式。我们每天要走不同的路线这样才没有人会怀疑我们要去哪里。我们把书放在食品杂货袋中这样别人就会以为我们只是要去购物学校在一个房屋里，我们100多人挤在一个小客厅里。冬天很舒服，但夏天却极热。我们都知道自己正冒着生命的危险-老师，学生以及家长都很明白有时，学校会突然停课一周因为被塔利班怀疑了。我们总是担心会被塔利班发现。我们在被跟踪吗？他们知道我们的住处吗？我们很害怕，但是，我们仍然渴望去学校。
en:A morning that I will never forget.A real school.You see, I was six when the Taliban took over Afghanistanand made it illegal for girls to go to school.So for the next five years, I dressed as a boyto escort my older sister, who was no longer allowedto be outside alone, to a secret school.It was the only way we both could be educated.Each day, we took a different routeso that no one would suspect where we were going.We would cover our books in grocery bagsso it would seem we were just out shopping.The school was in a house,more than 100 of us packed in one small living room.It was cozy in winter but extremely hot in summer.We all knew we were risking our lives —the teacher, the students and our parents.From time to time, the school would suddenly be canceledfor a week because Taliban were suspicious.We always wondered what they knew about us.Were we being followed?Do they know where we live?We were scared,but still, school was where we wanted to be.
时间： 2:26
zh-cn:我很幸运地成长在一个珍视教育也珍爱女儿的家庭。我的祖父在他的年代是位非凡的人。他出身阿富汗边远地区，有着与他人不同的见解他坚持让他的女儿，我的母亲，去上学，并因此被迫与他的父亲断绝父子关系。但是我那受过教育的母亲成为了一名教师。那就是她。她两年前退休了，结果却把我家变成了一所学校，教育社区中的女孩和妇女我的父亲-那就是他-他是他家族中第一个受到教育的人。因此毫无疑问，他的孩子应当受到教育，包括他的女儿，尽管有塔利班，尽管有风险。对他来说，孩子不接受教育才是更大的风险。在塔利班控制阿富汗的那些年，我记得有时我会对自己的生活感到沮丧总是会害怕，看不见未来。我想过要放弃，但我的父亲这时就会说“听着，我的女儿，你可能失去你生命中的任何东西。你的钱可能被偷，你可能因战争而背井离乡。而你唯一能够守护住的东西就是这里，如果我们不得不靠卖血来支付你的学费，我们会毫不犹豫。即便如此你还是不想继续吗？”
en:I was very lucky to grow up in a familywhere education was prized and daughters were treasured.My grandfather was an extraordinary man for his time.A total maverick from a remote province of Afghanistan,he insisted that his daughter, my mom,go to school, and for that he was disowned by his father.But my educated mother became a teacher.There she is.She retired two years ago, only to turn our houseinto a school for girls and women in our neighborhood.And my father — that&#39;s him —he was the first ever in his family to receive an education.There was no question that his childrenwould receive an education, including his daughters,despite the Taliban, despite the risks.To him, there was greater risk in not educating his children.During Taliban years, I rememberthere were times I would get so frustrated by our lifeand always being scared and not seeing a future.I would want to quit,but my father,he would say,&quot;Listen, my daughter,you can lose everything you own in your life.Your money can be stolen. You can be forced to leave your home during a war.But the one thing that will always remain with youis what is here,and if we have to sell our blood to pay your school fees,we will.So do you still not want to continue?&quot;
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:如今我22岁。我所成长的国家被几十年的战争所摧毁。我这个年龄的女性中，高中毕业的人数不到6%，如果不是我家人的坚持，我也会像绝大多数人一样。而如今我已经是一名自豪的明德学院的毕业生
en:Today I am 22.I was raised in a country that has been destroyedby decades of war.Fewer than six percent of women my age have made it beyond high school,and had my family not been so committed to my education,I would be one of them.Instead, I stand here a proud graduate of Middlebury College.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:（掌声）（明德学院(Middlebury College)是全美国的顶级文理学院之一，位于美国佛蒙特州明德镇， 2012年在全美国文理学院中排名第五）
en:(Applause)
时间： 5:05
zh-cn:当我回到阿富汗时，我的祖父，那位因让女儿接受教育而被逐出家门的老人，最先向我表示了祝贺。他骄傲的不仅仅是因为我的大学学历，也是因为在女性中，我是第一个，在女性中，我是第一个开车带他在喀布尔的大街兜风的人。
en:When I returned to Afghanistan, my grandfather,the one exiled from his home for daring to educate his daughters,was among the first to congratulate me.He not only brags about my college degree,but also that I was the first woman,and that I am the first womanto drive him through the streets of Kabul.
时间： 5:26
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:我的家人很信任我。我的梦想很大，但他们对我的期待甚至更高。这就是我成为 &quot;10x10&quot; 的全球大使的原因，这是一个致力于女性教育的全球组织。那也是我参与创立 SOLA 的原因，这是第一所，可能也是阿富汗唯一一所寄宿女校，因为在阿富汗，让女孩接受教育依然十分危险。让我兴奋的是，我看见我学校中的学生能够把握机遇，志向远大。我看见她们的双亲，尤其是她们的父亲，就像我父亲那样支持她们，尽管从他们脸上也看出了畏惧。
en:My family believes in me.I dream big, but my family dreams even bigger for me.That&#39;s why I am a global ambassador for 10x10,a global campaign to educate women.That&#39;s why I cofounded SOLA,the first and perhaps only boarding schoolfor girls in Afghanistan,a country where it&#39;s still risky for girls to go to school.The exciting thing is that I see students at my schoolwith ambition grabbing at opportunity.And I see their parents and their fatherswho, like my own, advocate for them,despite and even in the face of daunting opposition.
时间： 6:25
zh-cn:比如艾哈迈德，这不是真名，我也不能让你们看见他的长相，他是我一个学生的父亲。不到一个月前，他和他女儿在从学校回村里的路上他们差一点就被路边炸弹炸死。他到家时，电话响了，一个声音警告他如果他再将女儿送去学校，刚才的事情就会再次发生。
en:Like Ahmed. That&#39;s not his real name,and I cannot show you his face,but Ahmed is the father of one of my students.Less than a month ago, he and his daughterwere on their way from SOLA to their village,and they literally missed being killedby a roadside bomb by minutes.As he arrived home, the phone rang,a voice warning himthat if he sent his daughter back to school,they would try again.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:“如果你想，现在就可以杀了我。”他说，“但我不会因你落后的思想而毁了我女儿的未来。”
en:&quot;Kill me now, if you wish,&quot; he said,&quot;but I will not ruin my daughter&#39;s futurebecause of your old and backward ideas.&quot;
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:对于阿富汗，我意识到——这是西方国家也不曾意识到的——即在我们成功的背后是一个这样的父亲——他能认识到自己女儿的价值，也明白女儿的成功，就是他自己的成功。这并不是说母亲们对于我们的成功并不重要。事实上，为了女儿的美好未来，她们通常是最初和最有说服力的交涉者，但是在像阿富汗这样的社会中，我们必须有男性的支持。在塔利班控制下，去上学的女孩曾经只有几百人——请不要忘了，当时是非法的。但是今天，阿富汗接受教育的女孩已经超过300万。
en:What I&#39;ve come to realize about Afghanistan,and this is something that is often dismissed in the West,that behind most of us who succeedis a father who recognizes the value in his daughterand who sees that her success is his success.It&#39;s not to say that our mothers aren&#39;t key in our success.In fact, they&#39;re often the initial and convincing negotiatorsof a bright future for their daughters,but in the context of a society like in Afghanistan,we must have the support of men.Under the Taliban, girls who went to schoolnumbered in the hundreds —remember, it was illegal.But today, more than three million girls are in school in Afghanistan.
时间： 8:10
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:阿富汗与美国有很大不同。我发现，美国人能看出我们变化中的脆弱性。我担心这些变化在美军撤军之后能够维持多久。但是当我回到阿富汗看见我的学生以及支持她们并鼓励她们的父母时，我看到了未来的希望，也看到这种变化会延续下去。对我来说，阿富汗充满了希望和无限的可能性，每一天在 SOLA 读书的女孩儿都这么提醒着我。像我一样，她们也有很大的梦想。
en:Afghanistan looks so different from here in America.I find that Americans see the fragility in changes.I fear that these changes will not lastmuch beyond the U.S. troops&#39; withdrawal.But when I am back in Afghanistan,when I see the students in my schooland their parents who advocate for them,who encourage them, I see a promising futureand lasting change.To me, Afghanistan is a country of hope and boundless possibilities,and every single daythe girls of SOLA remind me of that.Like me, they are dreaming big.
时间： 9:13
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 9:15
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
