时间： 0:11
zh-cn:腐败对于我的触动使我于去年经历了一场巨大的职场变动，我成为了一名专职执业律师。自过去的18个月以来，我作为一名律师的经历使一种新型创业想法深深植入我心，我相信这的确是值得传播的。因此我想将此想法与你们一同分享，即使此想法已具体成形但我仍力图使之精益求精。当新的想法不断涌现时，它们会减弱公众对之前的失败而引出的负面印象。
en:The anger in me against corruptionmade me to make a big career changelast year, becoming a full-time practicing lawyer.My experiences over the last 18 months,as a lawyer, has seeded in mea new entrepreneurial idea,which I believe is indeedworth spreading.So, I share it with all of you here today,though the idea itself is getting crystallizedand I&#39;m still writing up the business plan.Of course it helps that fear of public failurediminishes as the number of ideaswhich have failed increases.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:自从1993年以来，我已成为企业及企业家精神的俘虏。我曾用心体验、经历以及试验企业和资本主义是怎么样的。我伙同我的两位兄弟一并于喀拉拉邦，我的家乡，创建了领头的房地产公司。紧接着和两位印度最成功的商人一起工作，不过只是在他们的新兴企业中工作。于2003年，我步出了纯粹的资本主义市场然后我迈进了所谓的社会问题领域，我的确没有任何雄心壮志也无志于寻找营利性解决方案以处理紧迫的社会问题。
en:I&#39;ve been a huge fan of enterprise and entrepreneurshipsince 1993.I&#39;ve explored, experienced,and experimented enterpriseand capitalism to my heart&#39;s content.I built, along with my two brothers,the leading real estate company in my home state, Kerala,and then worked professionallywith two of India&#39;s biggest businessmen,but in their startup enterprises.In 2003, when I stepped out of the pure play capitalistic sectorto work on so-called social sector issues,I definitely did not have any grand strategyor plan to pursue and findfor-profit solutionsto addressing pressing public issues.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:当命运和你开了一系列的生死玩笑时，我意识到印度需要紧急医疗事故处理服务，就如美国911时所作出的反应。为了解决此问题，我和我的四位朋友，一起创建了 Ambulance Access for All，以促进印度的生命援助救护车服务。那些从发展中国家来的人，此设想对于你们来说，是毫不出奇的。不过当我们为止展望时，我们得出了三个主要目标：提供世界级的救护车服务并且要是自给自足的，以及是随处可及的，向所有有需要的人提供服务，还有不论价钱。此项服务正是基于此三个目标而建立的，Dial 1298 for Ambulance(组织)，于2004年时只有一辆救护车，岂知现在已有逾百辆救护车分布于三个邦，而且我们至今已输送逾十万名伤患至医院。
en:When life brought about a seriesof death and near-death experienceswithin my close circle,which highlighted the needfor an emergency medical response service in India,similar to 911 in USA.To address this, I, along with four friends,founded Ambulance Access for All,to promote life-support ambulance services in India.For those from the developing world,there is nothing, absolutely nothing new in this idea.But as we envisioned it,we had three key goals:Providing world-class life support ambulance servicewhich is fully self-sustainable from its own revenue streams,and universally accessibleto anyone in a medical emergency,irrespective of the capability to pay.The service which grew out of this,Dial 1298 for Ambulance,with one ambulance in 2004,now has a hundred-plus ambulances in three states,and has transported over 100,000 patientsand victims since inception.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:此服务是— (鼓掌)自给自足的，不需要任何公共资金的援助而且这中交叉补贴模式的确有效，富人支付更多的钱而穷人则少付，事故的受害者们则完全免费。此项服务于11/26孟买恐怖袭击时作出了有效而迅速的反应。正如你们从视频中得知，这项服务于警察封锁现场前就到达了酒店处并且当即救助于事故中受伤的受害者们，警察随后就确认此次袭击为恐怖袭击。我们是于此次袭击中是第一个反应过来的医疗团队并且输送了125名受害者至医院以使他们存活下来。
en:The service is — (Applause)fully self-sustainable from its own revenues,without accessing any public funds,and the cross-subsidy model actually works,where the rich pays higher, poor pays lower,and the accident victim is getting the service free of charge.The service responded effectivelyand efficiently,during the unfortunate26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.And as you can see from the visuals,the service was responding and rescuingvictims from the incident locationseven before the police could cordon offthe incident locationsand formally confirm it as a terror strike.We ended up being the first medical response teamin every incident locationand transported 125 victims,saving life.
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:为了悼念和回忆去年的11/26恐怖袭击事件，我们携手一所巴基斯坦非政府组织，Aman Foundation，一同于卡拉奇创建了一自给自足的救护车服务企业，同时 Acumen Fund 也向我们伸出援助之手。
en:In tribute and remembranceof 26/11 attacksover the last one year,we have actually helped a Pakistani NGO,Aman Foundation,to set up a self-sustainable life support ambulance servicein Karachi, facilitated by Acumen Fund.
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:我只想用我们微薄的力量来传递一小小的信息至那些泯灭人性与伊斯兰、南亚、印度和巴基斯坦为敌的人，人道主义不会因这些卑劣的手段而停止发光发热。自那时起，我和他们合作创办了另两个社会企业。一是 Education Access for All ，是为了于印度的边缘村镇广设学校。另一是 Moksha-Yug Access，以自助团体组成的小额信贷公司为基础来整合乡村的供给链。我想我们至少做对了几件事。因为勤勉的投资人和创投资金已向我们挹注了逾750万元美金。最重要的是，这些资金都是合格交易的而非慈善捐赠。
en:It&#39;s a small message from us,in our own small wayto the enemies of humanity,of Islam, of South Asia,of India, and of Pakistan,that humanity will continue to bloom,irrespective of such dastardly attacks.Since then I&#39;ve also co-founded two other social enterprises.One is Education Access for All,setting up schools in small-town India.And the other is Moksha-Yug Access,which is integrating rural supply chainon the foundations of self-help group-based microfinance.I guess we seem to be doing at least a few things right.Because diligent investors and venture fundshave committed over 7.5 million dollars in funding.With the significance being these funds have come inas a QT capital, not as grant or as philanthropy.
时间： 5:09
zh-cn:回到我目前正在探索的新型社会企业。腐败，贿赂以及透明度缺失。你或许会惊讶于昨天已有八位演讲者于他们的演讲中提及这些词语。贿赂和腐败是供求的双方。供给的一方常常是贪婪而又不道德的企业以及不幸的普通人。需求的一方则通常是政客、官僚以及那些拥有实权的人。
en:Now I come back to the idea of the new social enterprisethat I&#39;m exploring.Corruption, bribes, and lack of transparency.You may be surprised to knowthat eight speakers yesterdayactually mentioned these terms in their talks.Bribes and corruption have both a demand and a supply side,with the supply side being mostly ofgreedy corporate unethical businessesand hapless common man.And the demand side being mostly politicians,bureaucrats and those who have discretionary powervested with them.
时间： 5:42
zh-cn:根据世界银行的估算，每年都会有一万亿元美金被用于贿赂，这无疑是火上浇油。假如你对一普通人进行分析，他或她并不会每天早起并说：“嗯嗯，让我看看，我今天应向谁行贿呢。”或说：“看看我可以使谁变得堕落呢。”这经常是一种不得不面对的情形，那些不幸的普通人们是在为行贿提供金钱来源。在现今世界中，时间是珍贵的，同时为生存之战是异常残酷的，一位不幸的普通人只能无奈地支付了这笔赃款以乞求存。
en:According to World Bank estimate,one trillion dollars is paid in bribesevery year, worsening the conditionof the already worse off.Yet, if you analyze the common man,he or she does not wake up every day and say,&quot;Hmm, let me see who I can pay a bribe to today.&quot;or, &quot;Let me see who I can corrupt today.&quot;Often it is the constraining or the back-to-the-wall situationthat the hapless common man finds himself or herself inthat leads him to pay a bribe.In the modern day world, where time is premiumand battle for subsistence is unimaginably tough,the hapless common mansimply gives in and pays the bribe just to get on with life.
时间： 6:26
zh-cn:现在，让我问你另一个问题。想象一下你被要求支付一笔贿赂以使你每天能做成一些事。你会怎么做？当然，你可以马上报警。若连警察部门也踏入这潭深水时怎么办？你理所当然地不想支付这笔赃款。但你没有任何资源或武器使你与之斗争。在此大厅里的很多人，很不幸的都是资本主义政策和市场力量的支持者。
en:Now, let me ask you another question.Imagine you are being asked to pay a bribein your day-to-day life to get something done.What do you do? Of course you can call the police.But what is the use if the police department is in itself steeped in corruption?Most definitely you don&#39;t want to pay the bribe.But you also don&#39;t have the time, resources,expertise or wherewithal to fight this.Unfortunately, many of us in this roomare supporters of capitalist policies and market forces.
时间： 6:57
zh-cn:如今的市场力量尚未足以抛出这样一项服务，你可以打电话向他们捐赠金钱然后并要求与腐败做斗争。就如同行贿克星服务，或是 1-800-反对-行贿 ，或是 www.终结行贿.org 或是www.防止腐败.org 。此类服务还不存于世。我曾被一梦魇侵扰，梦中常常闪现一位老人，已逾古稀之年，经常被当地的城市规划办公室的官僚们骚扰。她仅需的是一项许可，许可她于她家门前建三级台阶，这可以使她更易于进出屋子。偏偏那位官员不愿给予此项许可假如老太不向他行贿。即使这是被良心谴责的，我不能，或说我不愿去帮助她，因为我在忙于建设我自己的房地产公司。我不想再被此类梦魇侵扰。
en:Yet the market forces around the worldhave not yet thrown up a service where you can call in,pay a fee, and fight the demand for a bribe.Like a bribe buster service,or 1-800-Fight-Bribes,or www.stopbribes.org orwww.preventcorruption.org.Such a service simply do not exist.One image that has haunted mefrom my early business daysis of a grandmother, 70 plus years, being harassedby the bureaucrats in the town planning office.All she needed was permission to build three stepsto her house, from ground level,making it easier for her to enter and exit her house.Yet the officer in charge would not simply give her the permitfor want of a bribe.Even though it pricked my conscience then,I could not, or rather I did nottend to her or assist her,because I was busy building my real estate company.I don&#39;t want to be haunted by such images any more.
时间： 7:56
zh-cn:我们中的一组曾经组建一试验性的组织来解决个体为需求公共服务或是授权而进行行贿的问题。于42个案例中我们都是通过现存的合法工具如知情权等，来解决此类问题。我们已成功为我们的委托人达到他们的目的，且不用行贿。使用这些工具的费用是大大低于行贿所需的款项。我深信这些工具可以进一步于一种外包型环境中进行加强，并且使之存于网络上、呼叫中心及特许经营办事处中，是收费的，以为任何有需要的人进行服务。目标市场是诱人的。每年都有一万亿美元被用于行贿，这等同于印度的国内生产总值。而且这是一绝对新生的市场。
en:A group of us have been working on a pilot basisto address individual instances of demandsfor bribes for common services or entitlement.And in all 42 cases where we have pushed back such demandsusing existing and legitimate toolslike the Right to Information Act,video, audio, or peer pressure,we have successfully obtained whatever our clientsset out to achieve without actually paying a bribe.And with the cost of these tools being substantially lowerthan the bribe demanded.I believe that these tools that worked in these 42 pilot casescan be consolidated in standard processesin a BPO kind of environment,and made available on web, call-centerand franchise physical offices,for a fee, to serve anyone confronted with a demand for a bribe.The target market is as tempting as it can get.It can be worth up to one trillion dollars,being paid in bribes every year,or equal to India&#39;s GDP.And it is an absolutely virgin market.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:我建议继续深挖此设想，从而来检验创建这项服务的潜力，这项营利收费的外包服务，它可以阻止行贿和防止腐败。我当然意识到为正义而战是永远艰涩的。它永远不会是以简单的过程。于过去的18个月里，作为一名律师，我与形形色色的腐败做过斗争，包括由印度最大的公司所犯下的贿赂。由于他们的“善意”，我于警察部门有所交集，我被指称非法侵入，扮演和恫吓。与腐败的斗争是要我们自己付出代价的，包括我们的家庭、朋友，甚至是孩子们。但我认为我们所付出的代价是值得的，是建设一更加美好的世界。
en:I propose to explore this idea further,to examine the potential of creatinga for-profit, fee-based BPOkind of service to stop bribesand prevent corruption.I do realize that the fight for justiceagainst corruption is never easy.It never has been and it never will be.In my last 18 months as a lawyer,battling small- and large-scale corruption,including the one perpetrated by India&#39;s biggest corporate scamster.Through his charitiesI have had three police cases filed against mealleging trespass, impersonation and intimidation.The battle against corruptionexacts a toll on ourselves,our families, our friends, and even our kids.Yet I believe the price we pay is well worth holding onto our dignity and making the world a fairer place.
时间： 9:54
zh-cn:什么给予了我这项勇气？正如我密友所回复当那还是萌芽之时，这是不可能的任务，而创建者们都是疯子，因为他们放弃了他们明亮的前途。我回复到：“我们当然不能放弃，至少不能于意识中放弃。因为我们是一群疯子，尝试去完成一项不可能的任务。偏偏一位疯子是全无顾忌的。” 谢谢。
en:What gives us the courage?As my close friend replied, when toldduring the seeding days of the ambulance projectthat it is an impossible taskand the founders are insane to chalk up their blue-chip jobs,I quote: &quot;Of course we cannot fail in this,at least in our own minds.For we are insane people,trying to do an impossible task.And an insane person does not know what an impossible task is.&quot; Thank you.
时间：10:19
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
时间：10:27
zh-cn:克里斯•安德森：夏菲，这个计划让人兴奋异常。夏菲：万事开头难，希望不要一开业就马上结业了。
en:Chris Anderson: Shaffi, that is a really exciting business idea.Shaffi Mather: I just have to get through the initial days where I don&#39;t get eliminated.
时间：10:36
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:38
zh-cn:安德森：你现在有什么想法么？我是说，可不可以给我们一些更直观的景象，如数字等。譬如说，你们一般得贿赂多少钱以及得收多少钱？
en:CA: What&#39;s on your mind?I mean, give us a sense of the numbers here —a typical bribe and a typical fee. I mean, what&#39;s in your head?
时间：10:44
zh-cn:夏菲：让我举个例子吧。某人前去申办护照。工作人员两手一摊向你索要三千卢比的贿金。但某人不愿付这笔冤枉钱。因此我们就得用《资讯权利法》，颇似美国的《资讯自由法》，只有这样才能迫使办事人员让步。共42个案例中，我们的反制行动通常会遭遇三种反应。有些人会说：“哦，他们要什么就给他们吧，我才不想惹火上身。”有些则会反过来对我们说：“哦，你要找麻烦是吧？你知道啥叫厕所里点灯吧。”然后则做出反击。这时我们得采取下一步，或用其他我们想得到的办法，接着对方就会让步。每个案子最多不超过三次就完成了。
en:SM: So let me ... Let me give you an example.Somebody who had applied for the passport.The officer was just sitting on itand was demanding around 3,000 rupees in bribes.And he did not want to pay.So we actually used the Right to Information Act,which is equal to the Freedom of Information Act in the United States,and pushed back the officers in this particular case.And in all these 42 cases,when we kept pushing them back,there was three kinds of reaction.A set of people actually say,&quot;Oh, let me just grant it to them, and run away from it.&quot;Some people actually come back and say,&quot;Oh, you want to screw me. Let me show you what I can do.&quot;And he will push us back.So you take the next step, or use the next tool availablein what we are putting together,and then he relents.By the third time, in all 42 cases, we have achieved success.
时间：11:42
zh-cn:安德森：假如贿金是三千卢比，也就是七十美元，你们的受理费大概是多少？这门生意做得起来么？
en:CA: But if it&#39;s a 3,000-rupee, 70-dollar bribe,what fee would you have to charge,and can you actually make the business work?
时间：11:51
zh-cn:夏菲：好吧，我们的收费是低于两百卢比。因此，这的确行得通。
en:SM: Well, actually the cost that we incurredwas less than 200 rupees.So, it actually works.
时间：12:01
zh-cn:安德森：利润真高啊。我喜欢！
en:CA: That&#39;s a high gross margin business. I like it.
时间：12:04
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:06
zh-cn:夏菲：我本来没打算在TED舞台上提的。
en:SM: I actually did not want to answer this on the TED stage.
时间：12:09
zh-cn:安德森：好吧，这些都是预估的数字，实际可有差异啊。假设你成功了，你将是全世界的英雄啊。这相当了不起。非常感谢你在TED上与我们一同分享这项计划。
en:CA: OK, so these are provisional numbers, no pricing guarantee.If you can pull this off, you will be a global hero.I mean, this could be huge.Thank you so much for sharing this idea at TED.
时间：12:20
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
