时间： 0:12
zh-cn:今天，我要通过不同的视角带各位领略儿童人体炸弹。2009年，在巴基斯坦发生了500起爆炸。我花了一年时间，采访这些即将踏上不归路的孩子们，并采访了招募这些孩子的塔利班人员，我尝试了解塔利班如何将这些孩子变成人体炸弹，而这些孩子们又为何自愿走上不归路。
en:Today, I want you to look atchildren who become suicide bombersthrough a completely different lens.In 2009, there were 500bomb blasts across Pakistan.I spent the year workingwith childrenwho were training to become suicide bombersand with Taliban recruiters,trying to understand how the Talibanwere converting these childreninto live ammunitionand why these children were activelysigning up to their cause.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:我最近拍摄的纪录片有一段叫《塔利班的孩子们》。
en:I want you to watch a short videofrom my latest documentary film, &quot;Children of the Taliban.&quot;
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:（吟唱）
en:(Singing)
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:塔利班现在有自己的学校，他们瞄准了贫苦人家，说服家长把孩子交给他们。作为回报，塔利班将免费提供食宿，有时还每月发一些津贴给这些家庭。我们得到一卷塔利班制作的宣传片，男孩们被灌输自杀式袭击是正当合理的，并要求他们处决间谍。
en:The Taliban now run their own schools.They target poor familiesand convince the parents to send their children.In return, they provide free food and shelterand sometimes pay the families a monthly stipend.We&#39;ve obtained a propaganda videomade by the Taliban.Young boys are taught justificationsfor suicide attacksand the execution of spies.
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:我和一个来自Swat（巴基斯坦边境上一县）的男孩取得联系，他目前就读于一个类似的神学院。Hazrat Ali是来自Swat的穷困农家，他一年前加入塔利班，那年他13岁。
en:I made contact with a child from Swatwho studied in a madrassa like this.Hazrat Ali is from apoor farming family in Swat.He joined the Taliban a year agowhen he was 13.
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:塔利班在你的家乡是怎样招募新成员的？
en:How do the Taliban in your area get people to join them?
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:Hazrat Ali：他们以来就叫我们去清真寺，听布道，然后我们被带到一个神学院，学习《古兰经》。
en:Hazrat Ali: They first call us to the mosque and preach to us.Then they take us to a madrassaand teach us things from the Koran.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:Chinoy：他说孩子们要参加好几个月的军训。
en:Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy: He tells me that childrenare then given months of military training.
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:Ali：我们学会用机关枪、AK47、火箭筒、手榴弹和炸弹等。他们说我们只能对异教徒使用这些武器，然后他们还教会我们自杀式袭击。
en:HA: They teach us to use machine guns, Kalashnikov,rocket launchers, grenades, bombs.They ask us to use them only against the infidels.Then they teach us to do a suicide attack.
时间： 2:20
zh-cn:Chinoy：你会执行自杀式袭击吗？
en:SOC: Would you like to carry out a suicide attack?
时间： 2:22
zh-cn:Ali：愿真主赐我力量。
en:HA: If God gives me strength.
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:Chinoy：在我的研究中，我曾看过塔利班在招募和训练孩子们时，将他们的行为美化。这分为五步，首先是瞄准住在贫瘠土地上的贫穷大家庭。他们把父母和孩子们分开，向父母允诺给孩子提供衣食以及居所。然后把孩子们送到百里开外的地方，送至硬汉学校，在那接受塔利班的教育。
en:SOC: I, in my research,have seen that the Taliban have perfectedthe way in which they recruitand train children,and I think it&#39;s a five-step process.Step one is that the Taliban preyon families that are large, that are poor,that live in rural areas.They separate the parents from the childrenby promising to provide food, clothing,shelter to these children.Then they ship them off, hundreds of miles awayto hard-line schoolsthat run along the Taliban agenda.
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:第二步，他们教孩子们读《古兰经》，也就是伊斯兰教的圣典，但是是阿拉伯语的，孩子们根本不懂也不会说，这样孩子们就只能依赖神学院的老师，我个人觉得这些老师扭曲了教义，以达到他们的目的。这些孩子们被禁止读报，听广播或是读课外书。要是有孩子违反规定，就会被严厉训斥。这样，塔利班完全禁止孩子们接触其他资讯。
en:Step two:They teach the children the Koran, which is Islam&#39;s holiest book,in Arabic, a language these children do not understandand cannot speak.They rely very heavily on teachers,who I have personally seendistort the message to these childrenas and when it suits their purpose to.These children are explicitly forbiddenfrom reading newspapers, listening to radio,reading any booksthat the teachers do not prescribe them.If any child is found violating these rules,he is severely reprimanded.Effectively, the Taliban createa complete blackoutof any other source of information for these children.
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:第三步，塔利班要求孩子们憎恨这个世界，他们殴打孩子我亲眼见过。孩子一天只有两餐，就只有干面包和水。塔利班基本不让孩子们玩耍，孩子们一天要诵读八小时《古兰经》。这些孩子跟囚犯别一样既不能离开学校，又不能回家，他们的父母都太穷没法接他们回家。
en:Step three: The Taliban want these childrento hate the world that they currently live in.So they beat these children —I have seen it;they feed them twice a day dried bread and water;they rarely allow them to play games;they tell them that, for eight hours at a time,all they have to do is read the Koran.The children are virtual prisoners;they cannot leave, they cannot go home.Their parents are so poor,they have no resources to get them back.
时间： 4:11
zh-cn:第四步，较年长的塔利班成员又称战士，会向孩子们灌输殉教的光荣。并说，在他们死后，会升天，那里有流淌着牛奶和蜂蜜的湖水，有72个处女在天堂迎接他们，那里有吃不完的食物，这份荣誉会使他们成为乡间邻里的大英雄。这就是洗脑的全过程。
en:Step four: The older members of the Taliban,the fighters,start talking to the younger boysabout the glories of martyrdom.They talk to them about how when they die,they will be received upwith lakes of honey and milk,how there will be 72 virginswaiting for them in paradise,how there will be unlimited food,and how this gloryis going to propel them to becomeheroes in their neighborhoods.Effectively, this is the brainwashing processthat has begun.
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:最后一步，也是最有效的宣传武器就是宣传片是经过剪辑的照片，有关伊拉克阿富汗和巴基斯坦死去的男人，女人和孩子。以此说明西方强权根本不在乎贫民死活，所以这些人就必须和政府一起同西方强权合作。这也就是在过去两年里巴基斯坦有超过六千贫民死亡的原因。现在，这些孩子被训练成人体炸弹，蓄势待发要投入战斗，因为他们相信这是唯一荣耀真主的方法。
en:Step five: I believe the Taliban haveone of the most effectivemeans of propaganda.Their videos that they useare intercut with photographsof men and women and childrendying in Iraq and Afghanistanand in Pakistan.And the basic message is that the Western powersdo not care about civilian deaths,so those people who livein areas and support governmentsthat work with Western powers are fair game.That&#39;s why Pakistani civilians,over 6,000 of whom have been killed in the last two years alone,are fair game.Now these children are primedto become suicide bombers.They&#39;re ready to go out and fightbecause they&#39;ve been told that this iseffectively their only wayto glorify Islam.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:这是另一段视频
en:I want you to watch another excerpt from the film.
时间： 5:41
zh-cn:这个男孩叫辛诺拉，他自己送了命，同时还炸死六个人。这个男孩叫沙迪克，他炸死22人。这个男孩叫马苏德，他炸死了28人。塔利班开办的敢死队学校，训练了整整一代孩子以对贫民惨下毒手。
en:This boy is called Zenola.He blew himself up, killing six.This boy is called Sadik.He killed 22.This boy is called Messoud.He killed 28.The Taliban are running suicide schools,preparing a generation of boysfor atrocities against civilians.
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:你会执行自杀式袭击任务吗？
en:Do you want to carry out a suicide attack?
时间： 6:15
zh-cn:男孩：非常乐意，但要得到父亲的同意才行。当我看到同龄或是更小的自杀袭击者，他们的袭击让我斗志高昂。
en:Boy: I would love to.But only if I get permission from my dad.When I look at suicide bombers younger than me, or my age,I get so inspired by their terrific attacks.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:Chinoy：执行完任务，你会得到什么？
en:SOC: What blessing would you getfrom carrying out a suicide attack?
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:男孩：审判日来临时，真主会问我：“你为何这样做？”我会回答：“真主，只为了让您高兴！我用生命来对抗异教徒。“真主会知道我的意图，我是为伊斯兰消灭恶行，可以上天堂。
en:Boy: On the day of judgment, God will ask me,&quot;Why did you do that?&quot;I will answer, &quot;My Lord! Only to make you happy!I have laid down my life fighting the infidels.&quot;Then God will look at my intention.If my intention was to eradicate evil for Islam,then I will be rewarded with paradise.
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:歌声♫审判将临♫♫真主蒙召♫♫重塑吾躯♫♫真主问询 何以为此♫
en:Singer: ♫ On the day of judgment ♫♫ My God will call me ♫♫ My body will be put back together ♫♫ And God will ask me why I did this ♫
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:Chinoy：请想一下如果你成长在这样的环境里，面对这样的选择，你会选择活在这个世上，抑或留得身后名？有一个塔利班招募人员告诉我”在这场战争里总要有人牺牲。“
en:SOC: I leave you all with this thought:If you grew up in these circumstances,faced with these choices,would you choose to live in this worldor in the glorious afterlife?As one Taliban recruiter told me,&quot;There will always be sacrificial lambs in this war.&quot;
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:谢谢。（掌声）
en:Thank you.(Applause)
