时间： 0:18
zh-cn:今天， 我要带大家在十八分钟的时间里环游世界。美国是这次旅程的起点。但让我们从地图的另一端出发- 日本京都在那儿我和一个日本当地家庭生活在一起当时我正在做博士毕业论文的相关研究这是十五年前的事了。那时候我就知道我肯定会遭遇文化差异和误解，但它们却是在我毫无准备的情形下发生了。
en:Today, I&#39;m going to take youaround the world in 18 minutes.My base of operations is in the U.S.,but let&#39;s start at the other end of the map,in Kyoto, Japan,where I was living with a Japanese familywhile I was doing part of my dissertational research15 years ago.I knew even then that I would encountercultural differences and misunderstandings,but they popped up when I least expected it.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:我到那儿的第一天，去了一家餐厅，点了一杯加糖的绿茶。那个服务生顿了一下说，“我们这里喝绿茶都不加糖。”“我知道。”我说，“我知道这个习俗。但是我想要喝甜的绿茶。”听到我的回答，他用更礼貌的语气对我又解释了一遍同样的意思。我们从来不在绿茶里加糖。“我明白，”我说，“我明白日本人从来不在绿茶里加糖。但是我就想放点糖在我的绿茶里。”（笑声）服务生被我的执着震住了，他把此事告诉了店经理不一会儿，开始了一个很长的讨论最后店经理走过来对我说，”非常抱歉。我们店里没有糖。“(笑声)好吧，既然喝不到想喝的加糖绿茶，我只好另点了一杯咖啡，这次服务生很快就端过来了。只见茶托上赫然躺着两小包糖。
en:On my first day,I went to a restaurant,and I ordered a cup of green tea with sugar.After a pause, the waiter said,&quot;One does not put sugar in green tea.&quot;&quot;I know,&quot; I said. &quot;I&#39;m aware of this custom.But I really like my tea sweet.&quot;In response, he gave me an even more courteous versionof the same explanation.&quot;One does not put sugarin green tea.&quot;&quot;I understand,&quot; I said,&quot;that the Japanese do not put sugar in their green tea,but I&#39;d like to put some sugarin my green tea.&quot;(Laughter)Surprised by my insistence,the waiter took up the issue with the manager.Pretty soon,a lengthy discussion ensued,and finally the manager came over to me and said,&quot;I am very sorry. We do not have sugar.&quot;(Laughter)Well, since I couldn&#39;t have my tea the way I wanted it,I ordered a cup of coffee,which the waiter brought over promptly.Resting on the saucerwere two packets of sugar.
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:我没能给自己点到一杯加糖绿茶并不是因为简单的误解。而是因为对于选择这个概念我们存在根本的认识差异。从我作为一个美国人的视角，当顾客提出合理要求出于个人喜好，她就有权利让自己的要求得到满足。这种美式作风，用汉堡王的话来说，就是“吃出你的自己的方式”因为，正如星巴克所说，“快乐尽在你的选择中。&quot;(笑声)但在日本人眼里，他们有责任保护不知好歹的人（笑声）也就是我这个无知的外国人(注：日语外人)—做出错误的选择。这么说吧，我要在绿茶里放糖这种方式在日本的文化标准中是不恰当的，他们只是尽最大努力帮我保住面子。
en:My failure to procure myselfa cup of sweet, green teawas not due to a simple misunderstanding.This was due to a fundamental differencein our ideas about choice.From my American perspective,when a paying customer makes a reasonable requestbased on her preferences,she has every right to have that request met.The American way, to quote Burger King,is to &quot;have it your way,&quot;because, as Starbucks says,&quot;happiness is in your choices.&quot;(Laughter)But from the Japanese perspective,it&#39;s their duty to protect those who don&#39;t know any better —(Laughter)in this case, the ignorant gaijin —from making the wrong choice.Let&#39;s face it: the way I wanted my teawas inappropriate according to cultural standards,and they were doing their best to help me save face.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:而美国人则认为在实行选择这件事上，他们已经做到最巅峰了。他们认为以美国人的视角做出的选择最能满足人类对选择的本性和普遍性的欲望。不幸的是，这种观点是建立在一种假设上的而这些假设在不同文化不同国家里并不总是成立的。甚至有时候在美国本土都不一定成立。我想探讨其中一些假设以及引申而来的一些问题。我希望在我进行的同时，大家也能开始想想你们自己的一些假设以及它们在你个人背景影响下是如何形成的
en:Americans tend to believethat they&#39;ve reached some sort of pinnaclein the way they practice choice.They think that choice, as seen through the American lensbest fulfills an innate and universaldesire for choice in all humans.Unfortunately,these beliefs are based on assumptionsthat don&#39;t always hold truein many countries, in many cultures.At times they don&#39;t even hold trueat America&#39;s own borders.I&#39;d like to discuss some of these assumptionsand the problems associated with them.As I do so, I hope you&#39;ll start thinkingabout some of your own assumptionsand how they were shaped by your backgrounds.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:第一个假设:如果一个选择影响你，那么该选择应当由你本人做出。这是唯一的办法来保证你自己的偏好和兴趣被最大限度的纳入考虑。这是成功的基本。在美国，选择的主要焦点在于个人。人们必须为自己选择，有时甚至于固执己见地不管其他人想要什么或推荐什么。这叫“对自己真实。”但是不是所有人都从这种选择的方式中获益呢？马克 莱珀和我进行了一系列研究来寻求这个问题的答案。在其中的一项研究中，在旧金山的日本城展开我们把7至9岁的英裔美国籍和亚裔美国籍儿童带进了实验室并将其分成三组。
en:First assumption:if a choice affects you,then you should be the one to make it.This is the only way to ensurethat your preferences and interestswill be most fully accounted for.It is essential for success.In America, the primary locus of choiceis the individual.People must choose for themselves, sometimes sticking to their guns,regardless of what other people want or recommend.It&#39;s called &quot;being true to yourself.&quot;But do all individuals benefitfrom taking such an approach to choice?Mark Lepper and I did a series of studiesin which we sought the answer to this very question.In one study,which we ran in Japantown, San Francisco,we brought seven- to nine-year-old Anglo- and Asian-American childreninto the laboratory,and we divided them up into three groups.
时间： 4:13
zh-cn:第一组进来，由史密斯小姐迎接他们，并给他们看了六张字谜。孩子们可以选择自己喜欢的拼字图来完成。他们还可以选择用哪只水笔把答案写下来。当第二组孩子进来时，他们被带到同一个房间，展示同样的字谜游戏。不过这次史密斯小姐告诉他们该做哪个拼字图该用哪只水笔写答案。第三个小组进来，他们被告知做哪个拼字图得用哪只水笔已经由他们的妈妈决定好了。（笑声）现实中，那些被告知该做什么的孩子，不管是史密斯小姐还是他们的妈妈做的选择，实际上做出了和第一组自由选择的孩子们做出了完全一致的行为。
en:The first group came in,and they were greeted by Miss Smith,who showed them six big piles of anagram puzzles.The kids got to choose which pile of anagrams they would like to do,and they even got to choose which markerthey would write their answers with.When the second group of children came in,they were brought to the same room, shown the same anagrams,but this time Miss Smith told themwhich anagrams to doand which markers to write their answers with.Now when the third group came in,they were told that their anagrams and their markershad been chosen by their mothers.(Laughter)In reality,the kids who were told what to do,whether by Miss Smith or their mothers,were actually given the very same activity,which their counterparts in the first grouphad freely chosen.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:在这个过程中，我们可以保证三组的孩子都进行相同的活动，使我们更容易比较他们的行为我们管理时的细微差异在他们实际行为中引起了显著的不同。英裔美国籍的孩子们，做了两点五倍更多的拼图当他们可以(自己)进行选择时，相对于史密斯小姐或妈妈们为他们作出选择时。不论是谁作出的选择如果这任务已经被他人所强制，他们的表现就会受损。事实上，一些孩子面露尴尬当他们得知已经同他们的妈妈商讨过了。（笑声）一个叫玛丽的孩子说“你真的问了我妈妈？”
en:With this procedure, we were able to ensurethat the kids across the three groupsall did the same activity,making it easier for us to compare performance.Such small differences in the way we administered the activityyielded striking differencesin how well they performed.Anglo-Americans,they did two and a half times more anagramswhen they got to choose them,as compared to when it waschosen for them by Miss Smith or their mothers.It didn&#39;t matter who did the choosing,if the task was dictated by another,their performance suffered.In fact, some of the kids were visibly embarrassedwhen they were told that their mothers had been consulted.(Laughter)One girl named Mary said,&quot;You asked my mother?&quot;
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 5:51
zh-cn:相比之下，亚裔的孩子们当他们相信他们妈妈作了选择时表现得最好，第二好的是当他们自己作选择时最差的则是当史密斯小姐告诉他们时一个叫夏实的女孩甚至在史密斯小姐要离开房间时拉住她的裙角问，”你可以告诉我妈妈我照她的话乖乖做了吗？“这些“第一代”（父母都为移民）的孩子受到了他们父母选择的强烈影响对他们来说，选择不仅是一种展现自我的途径更是一种建立社群使人相处融洽的过程通过服从他们所信任和尊敬的人作出的选择。如果他们有一种对自我真实的观点那么这个自我，在很多情况下不是以个人为出发点而是以集体作为出发点成功意味着满足一些重要人物和满足自己的偏爱。或者你可以这样认为，个人偏好的形成是根据其他人偏好的影响。
en:In contrast,Asian-American childrenperformed best when they believedtheir mothers had made the choice,second best when they chose for themselves,and least well when it had been chosen by Miss Smith.A girl named Natsumieven approached Miss Smith as she was leaving the roomand tugged on her skirt and asked,&quot;Could you please tell my mommyI did it just like she said?&quot;The first-generation children were strongly influencedby their immigrant parents&#39;approach to choice.For them, choice was not just a wayof defining and assertingtheir individuality,but a way to create community and harmonyby deferring to the choicesof people whom they trusted and respected.If they had a concept of being true to one&#39;s self,then that self, most likely,[was] composed, not of an individual,but of a collective.Success was just as much about pleasing key figuresas it was about satisfyingone&#39;s own preferences.Or, you could say thatthe individual&#39;s preferences were shapedby the preferences of specific others.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:有这样一个假设，我们将做到最好当个人为自己做选择时只维持在当自我同他人明显区分开的情况下。相对的，当两个或两人以上的个人发现他们的选择和结果非常的相近时他们则有可能放大自己的成就通过把选择转变成一种集团行为。要保持他们做出独立的选择，事实上需要他们的表现和他们的关系相互妥协。这恰恰就是美国最需要的典范行为。这种典范忽略了相互独立以及对个人过失的承认。它让每个人把选择当成一种私人的和自我界定的行为。一直依据这样的典范成长的人们可能会认为这就是动机.但这是错误的去假设每个人都能够在独自选择的压力下茁壮成长。
en:The assumption then that we do bestwhen the individual self choosesonly holdswhen that selfis clearly divided from others.When, in contrast,two or more individualssee their choices and their outcomesas intimately connected,then they may amplify one another&#39;s successby turning choosinginto a collective act.To insist that they choose independentlymight actually compromiseboth their performanceand their relationships.Yet that is exactly whatthe American paradigm demands.It leaves little room for interdependenceor an acknowledgment of individual fallibility.It requires that everyone treat choiceas a private and self-defining act.People that have grown up in such a paradigmmight find it motivating,but it is a mistake to assumethat everyone thrives under the pressureof choosing alone.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:第二个对美国选择观的假设则是这样的。你拥有的选择越多，你就越有可能做出最好的选择。所以呢，沃尔玛超市里就会有十万种不同的商品,亚马逊网站有两千七百万册的书交友网站有—什么来着—目前可能有一千五百万的约会机会。你一定可以在上面找到真爱。让我们在东欧验证一下这个假设。在那儿，我采访了一些人他们都曾是共产主义国家的居民,都曾经历过向民主和资本主义社会的过渡所带来的挑战。其中最有意思的启示并不是来自访谈过程，而是来自一个款待客人的简单行为。当访谈对象到了之后，我给他们提供了一些饮料，可乐、无糖可乐、雪碧等—准确地来讲有七种。
en:The second assumption which informs the American view of choicegoes something like this.The more choices you have,the more likely you areto make the best choice.So bring it on, Walmart, with 100,000 different products,and Amazon, with 27 million booksand Match.com with — what is it? —15 million date possibilities now.You will surely find the perfect match.Let&#39;s test this assumptionby heading over to Eastern Europe.Here, I interviewed peoplewho were residents of formerly communist countries,who had all faced the challengeof transitioning to a moredemocratic and capitalistic society.One of the most interesting revelationscame not from an answer to a question,but from a simple gesture of hospitality.When the participants arrived for their interview,I offered them a set of drinks:Coke, Diet Coke, Sprite —seven, to be exact.
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:在第一部分在对俄罗斯进行访谈时，其中一个参与者的一个意见让我大吃一惊。“哦，没关系的，反正都是汽水，都是一种选择啦。”（议论声）对这句话我真感到惊讶，于是在接下来对象中，我开始为访谈者提供这七种汽水。然后我问他们：“这里有多少种选择呢？”一次又一次的，他们认为这七种汽水,不是七种选择，而是一种选择：汽水或非汽水饮料。我又另外加了果汁和水除这七种汽水之外，这会儿他们认为有三种选择果汁、水和汽水。这让许多顽固死硬的美国人来辨别，依据的就不仅仅是口味不同的汽水了，还有不同的牌子。调查反复证明我们其实并不能真正辨别出可口可乐和百事可乐有什么区别。当然,大家都明白，可口可乐是更好的选择。
en:During the very first session,which was run in Russia,one of the participants made a commentthat really caught me off guard.&quot;Oh, but it doesn&#39;t matter.It&#39;s all just soda. That&#39;s just one choice.&quot;(Murmuring)I was so struck by this comment that from then on,I started to offer all the participantsthose seven sodas,and I asked them, &quot;How many choices are these?&quot;Again and again,they perceived these seven different sodas,not as seven choices, but as one choice:soda or no soda.When I put out juice and waterin addition to these seven sodas,now they perceived it as only three choices —juice, water and soda.Compare this to the die-hard devotion of many Americans,not just to a particular flavor of soda,but to a particular brand.You know, research shows repeatedlythat we can&#39;t actually tell the differencebetween Coke and Pepsi.Of course, you and I knowthat Coke is the better choice.
时间：10:06
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:12
zh-cn:对现代的美国人来说，他们面对的选项最多，面对的广告带来的选择也最多，选择表现了他们是谁正如不同的产品一样。与第二个假设结合起来看，越多选择总是越好的，于是你能找到一群人，对他们来说，每一个小小的区别都很重要，也因此每一个选择都很重要。但对东欧人而言，突然那么多的产品如洪水般充斥着消费市场。在他们抗议自己还没学会游泳之前，就已经被大量的选择淹没了。当被问及“选择会令你联想到什么词语和印象时？“来自华沙的格雷戈尔说：“啊，对我来说是害怕。有很多进退两难的问题。我习惯没有选择。”来自基辅的布丹，他针对新的消费市场，做出的回应则是:&quot;太多了。我们不需要那么多东西。&quot;一个来自华沙研究机构的社会学家解释到：”这里上一代的人是从“没有选择的时代过来的。他们从来没有机会学习如何对外界的选择做出反应。”来自波兰的年轻人汤马士说，我不需要二十种口香糖。“我并不是说我不需要选择。但这些选择中，有很多是刻意制造的。”
en:For modern Americans who are exposedto more options and more ads associated with optionsthan anyone else in the world,choice is just as much about who they areas it is about what the product is.Combine this with the assumption that more choices are always better,and you have a group of people for whom every little difference mattersand so every choice matters.But for Eastern Europeans,the sudden availability of all theseconsumer products on the marketplace was a deluge.They were flooded with choicebefore they could protest that they didn&#39;t know how to swim.When asked, &quot;What words and imagesdo you associate with choice?&quot;Grzegorz from Warsaw said,&quot;Ah, for me it is fear.There are some dilemmas you see.I am used to no choice.&quot;Bohdan from Kiev said,in response to how he felt aboutthe new consumer marketplace,&quot;It is too much.We do not need everything that is there.&quot;A sociologist fromthe Warsaw Survey Agency explained,&quot;The older generation jumped from nothingto choice all around them.They were never given a chance to learnhow to react.&quot;And Tomasz, a young Polish man said,&quot;I don&#39;t need twenty kinds of chewing gum.I don&#39;t mean to say that I want no choice,but many of these choices are quite artificial.&quot;
时间：11:36
zh-cn:现实中，很多的选择，存在于并无明显差异的东西之间。选择的价值基于我们识别各种选择之不同的能力。美国人的一生都在接受”识别差异“的训练。他们从小就开始练习做选择，便不由得相信这种能力是与生俱来的。事实上，尽管所有人在“选择”上都有基本的需要和欲望，但是我们认识选择时的角度和程度都是不同的。当有些人无法识辨一个选择和另一个选择有什么区别时，或者得在许多的选择间做出类比，这种选择的过程可能是令人困惑的甚至感到沮丧的。这时，我们非但不能做出最佳选择，反倒被选择给打垮了，有时甚至会害怕做出选择。选择不再是提供机遇，反而是来增加限制。（选择）不再是一支书写自由的笔，反而被一些毫无意义的琐碎小事给扼制了。换句话说，选择可以向它所代表的反面发展在美国当选择突然扔到那些没有准备好的人面前时是这样。但是不仅仅是其他地方的人们会感到纷纷而至的选择所带来的压抑。美国人自己也发现无限的选择似乎在理论上要比在实际中更具有吸引力
en:In reality, many choices are between thingsthat are not that much different.The value of choicedepends on our abilityto perceive differencesbetween the options.Americans train their whole livesto play &quot;spot the difference.&quot;They practice this from such an early agethat they&#39;ve come to believe that everyonemust be born with this ability.In fact, though all humans sharea basic need and desire for choice,we don&#39;t all see choice in the same placesor to the same extent.When someone can&#39;t see how one choiceis unlike another,or when there are too many choices to compare and contrast,the process of choosing can beconfusing and frustrating.Instead of making better choices,we become overwhelmed by choice,sometimes even afraid of it.Choice no longer offers opportunities,but imposes constraints.It&#39;s not a marker of liberation,but of suffocationby meaningless minutiae.In other words,choice can develop into the very oppositeof everything it representsin Americawhen it is thrust upon thosewho are insufficiently prepared for it.But it is not only other peoplein other placesthat are feeling the pressureof ever-increasing choice.Americans themselves are discoveringthat unlimited choiceseems more attractive in theorythan in practice.
时间：13:10
zh-cn:我们都有肉体上、精神上和情感上的局限这使得我们不可能处理接触到的每一个微小的选择。即使是在杂货店里也难做到，更不用说是在我们整个生活中了。我的一些研究表明，当你给人们十个以上的选项时他们在选择时，会做出糟糕的决定，不论是医疗，投资还是其他重要的方面。尽管如此，我们很多人还是相信我们应该完全做出自己的选择，甚至寻找更多的选择。
en:We all have physical, mentaland emotional (Laughter) limitationsthat make it impossible for usto process every single choice we encounter,even in the grocery store,let alone over the course of our entire lives.A number of my studies have shownthat when you give people 10 or more optionswhen they&#39;re making a choice, they make poorer decisions,whether it be health care, investment,other critical areas.Yet still, many of us believethat we should make all our own choicesand seek out even more of them.
时间：13:45
zh-cn:这令我做出了第三个，也或许是最具争议的一个假设：“你必须绝不能对选择说不。”为了验证，我们把视线放回美国，然后跳到法国就在芝加哥郊外，一对年轻的夫妇，苏珊和丹尼尔 米切尔，即将要有他们第一个孩子。他们已经为她娶好了名字，以她祖母的名字命名，芭芭拉。苏珊怀孕七个月的一个晚上，她开始感觉到子宫收缩，赶紧送到了急救室里。宝宝生了下来，不料芭芭拉患有脑缺氧，无法自己呼吸。她靠呼吸机供氧。两天后，医生给了米切尔一个选择。他们或者移除芭芭拉的生命支持装置，这样她会在几小时后死去，或者保留她的生命装置，在这种情况下，她还是可能会在几天内死去，即便保住了生命，她也会是永久性植物人，无法走路、说话交流。他们怎么做呢？身为父母的人会怎么做呢？
en:This brings me to the third,and perhaps most problematic, assumption:&quot;You must neversay no to choice.&quot;To examine this, let&#39;s go back to the U.S.and then hop across the pond to France.Right outside Chicago,a young couple, Susan and Daniel Mitchell,were about to have their first baby.They&#39;d already picked out a name for her,Barbara, after her grandmother.One night, when Susan was seven months pregnant,she started to experience contractionsand was rushed to the emergency room.The baby was delivered through a C-section,but Barbara suffered cerebral anoxia,a loss of oxygen to the brain.Unable to breathe on her own,she was put on a ventilator.Two days later,the doctors gave the Mitchellsa choice:They could either remove Barbaraoff the life support,in which case she would die within a matter of hours,or they could keep her on life support,in which case she might still diewithin a matter of days.If she survived, she would remainin a permanent vegetative state,never able to walk, talkor interact with others.What do they do?What do any parent do?
时间：15:13
zh-cn:在我与西蒙娜 博蒂和克里斯蒂娜 奥法里一起进行的研究里，几对美国夫妇和法国夫妇接受了访谈。他们都经历了同样的悲剧。这几对夫妇都决定不再使用生命支持仪，于是婴儿死了。但这其中却有很大的差别。在法国，是由医生来决定生命装置是否需要移除以及什么时候移除，而在美国，最后的决定则还是交给了父母。我们想：这是否会影响到并且如何影响父母对待失去挚爱的这件事呢？我们发现答案是肯定的。甚至到了一年以后，美国夫妇更容易流出负面的情绪，相较于法国夫妇。法国夫妇则会说些：“诺娃活得很短暂，却教会了我们很多。他让我们看到了生活的另一页”之类的话
en:In a study I conductedwith Simona Botti and Kristina Orfali,American and French parentswere interviewed.They had all sufferedthe same tragedy.In all cases, the life support was removed,and the infants had died.But there was a big difference.In France, the doctors decided whether and whenthe life support would be removed,while in the United States,the final decision rested with the parents.We wondered:does this have an effect on how the parentscope with the loss of their loved one?We found that it did.Even up to a year later,American parentswere more likely to express negative emotions,as compared to their French counterparts.French parents were more likely to say things like,&quot;Noah was here for so little time,but he taught us so much.He gave us a new perspective on life.&quot;
时间：16:15
zh-cn:美国夫妇则常常会说，“如果怎样？如果怎样？”之类的话另一对父母则抱怨，“我觉得他们似乎在故意折磨我。他们怎么可以让我做这个？”还有一个父母则说，“我觉得我好像扮演了侩子手的角色。&quot;但是当问这些美国父母们愿不愿意让医生来做这个决定时，他们都回答说，“不”他们无法想象把选择交给另外一方，尽管自己做决定令他们感到困扰负罪、愤怒。在一些案例中，有些人甚至得了焦虑症。这些父母无法想象放弃这个选择，因为这样做将违背他们一直来所被教导的和所相信的关于权力和选择的目的。
en:American parents were more likely to say things like,&quot;What if? What if?&quot;Another parent complained,&quot;I feel as if they purposefully tortured me.How did they get me to do that?&quot;And another parent said,&quot;I feel as if I&#39;ve played a rolein an execution.&quot;But when the American parents were askedif they would rather have hadthe doctors make the decision,they all said, &quot;No.&quot;They could not imagineturning that choice over to another,even though having made that choicemade them feel trapped,guilty, angry.In a number of casesthey were even clinically depressed.These parents could not contemplategiving up the choice,because to do so would have gone contraryto everything they had been taughtand everything they had come to believeabout the powerand purpose of choice.
时间：17:17
zh-cn:在琼 迪迪恩的文章，《白色相册》中，她写道，“我们给自己讲故事促使自己生活下去。我们体会着自己所见，在多种选择中，寻找可行的选择。我们完全是被强迫地生活在一个叙述性的基于一些零碎图片上的线条上，我们已学会去冻结千变万化的幻觉中的真实经历。”那些美国人所讲述的故事，那些铸造着美国梦的故事是人拥有无限选择的故事这个故事许诺了太多：自由、幸福成功。它令人身置云端，说道，“你可以拥有一切的一切。”这是一个传奇，并且可以理解为何他们不愿意去改写它。但是当你细细地看时，你便会发现漏洞，然后你发现这个故事也可以这样讲，那样讲。
en:In her essay, &quot;The White Album,&quot;Joan Didion writes,&quot;We tell ourselves storiesin order to live.We interpret what we see,select the most workableof the multiple choices.We live entirely by the impositionof a narrative lineupon disparate images,by the idea with which we have learned to freezethe shifting phantasmagoria,which is our actual experience.&quot;The story Americans tell,the story upon whichthe American dream depends,is the story of limitless choice.This narrativepromises so much:freedom, happiness,success.It lays the world at your feet and says,&quot;You can have anything, everything.&quot;It&#39;s a great story,and it&#39;s understandable why they would be reluctantto revise it.But when you take a close look,you start to see the holes,and you start to see that the storycan be told in many other ways.
时间：18:29
zh-cn:美国人尝试着去传播他们关于选择的观念相信他人将会，或者必然会，用开放的心胸去接受这种观念。但是历史书和每天的新闻告诉我们，这套理论并不总是这样顺利运作的。说故事的手法各地不同，千变万化我们都试图用说故事的方法去了解组织阐释自己的真实经验。任何地区的任何人都不会只满足于一种叙事的手法况且，美国人自己也能收益于吸收他人的叙事技巧，这一套叙事技巧已经左右他们的选择很久了。
en:Americans have so often tried todisseminate their ideas of choice,believing that they will be, or ought to be,welcomed with open hearts and minds.But the history books and the daily news tell usit doesn&#39;t always work out that way.The phantasmagoria,the actual experience that we try to understandand organize through narrative,varies from place to place.No single narrative serves the needsof everyone everywhere.Moreover, Americans themselvescould benefit from incorporatingnew perspectives into their own narrative,which has been driving their choicesfor so long.
时间：19:16
zh-cn:罗伯特 福斯特（注：美国诗人）曾说，“诗就是翻译过程中所失去的东西。”这句话是说不管多么美丽多么动人，多么让我们有了新的感悟的东西人们都没有办法将它用另一种语言表述出来。可约瑟夫布 罗司机（注：苏联诗人）也曾说过，“诗，是从翻译过程中得到的＂这意味着翻译可以是一项富有创造力的和改变力的艺术。在翻译过程中要面临选择透过许多不同的翻译叙事手法我们从中得到的感触会比失去的还要多。这并不是要用另一个故事来取代，我们可以在翻译过程中学习到新事物并陶醉于不同的版本里，甚至陶醉在非原版的意境里不论我们来自哪里，叙述的手段如何，我们都有一个共同的责任，打开心房去接受更广泛的选择以及这些选择所代表的意义这样才不会让”道德相对主义“滋生，相反它可以教导我们何时行动，如何行动。让我们了解各种选择的蕴涵，更接近能鼓舞人心的希望获得选择所拥有的却有时不能传递的的自由如果我们学会与人交谈，即使是通过翻译，我们就可以发现选择的不可思议之处，复杂之处，和它的迷人之处。
en:Robert Frost once said that,&quot;It is poetry that is lost in translation.&quot;This suggests thatwhatever is beautiful and moving,whatever gives us a new way to see,cannot be communicated to thosewho speak a different language.But Joseph Brodsky said that,&quot;It is poetrythat is gained in translation,&quot;suggesting that translationcan be a creative,transformative act.When it comes to choice,we have far more to gain than to loseby engaging in the manytranslations of the narratives.Instead of replacingone story with another,we can learn from and revel inthe many versions that existand the many that have yet to be written.No matter where we&#39;re fromand what your narrative is,we all have a responsibilityto open ourselves up to a wider arrayof what choice can do,and what it can represent.And this does not lead toa paralyzing moral relativism.Rather, it teaches us whenand how to act.It brings us that much closerto realizing the full potential of choice,to inspiring the hopeand achieving the freedomthat choice promisesbut doesn&#39;t always deliver.If we learn to speak to one another,albeit through translation,then we can begin to see choicein all its strangeness,complexityand compelling beauty.
时间：21:03
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间：21:05
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：21:16
zh-cn:布鲁诺 吉桑尼：谢谢您。希娜，目前有没有你自传的消息但是我们已经听过你的许多事迹在座的各位都知道你的眼睛看不见。我想，大家都有一个问题：这一点如何影响你关于选择的研究。因为这项活动很大程度上需要视觉获得信息，比如美学啊，色彩啊等等
en:Bruno Giussani: Thank you.Sheena, there is a detail about your biographythat we have not written in the program book.But by now it&#39;s evident to everyone in this room. You&#39;re blind.And I guess one of the questions on everybody&#39;s mind is:How does that influence your study of choosingbecause that&#39;s an activitythat for most people is associated with visual inputslike aesthetics and color and so on?
时间：21:42
zh-cn:希娜 亚格尔：恩，你问得问题很有趣，因为关于失明，有一个有趣的地方是你事实上有一个非常不同的视角去观察人们的选择。正如你刚刚提到的，日常生活中我们常常依赖视觉做出选择，是的，就如你想得那样，我有时候会感到沮丧受挫，在面临该涂什么指甲油的选择时我不得不依赖他人的意见我无法自己做出选择，有一次我在美容院，我试图在两种淡粉色之间做出选择，一个叫”粉色芭蕾“，另一个”粉可爱“（笑声）于是我就问了两位女士，其中一个说”啊，你一定得涂个粉色芭蕾“”嗯，那它是什么样的呢“”它是一种非常优雅的粉色“”哦，不错“另一个则告诉我涂”粉可爱“”它是什么样的呢“”它是一种华丽的粉色“于是我就问他们”那我该怎么区别呢“”它们之前有什么不同“她们说”一款是优雅的，另一款华丽“好吧，我们知道了。她们唯一达成共识的，是，如果我能看见，我就能够很清晰地辨别了。
en:Sheena Iyengar: Well, it&#39;s funny that you should ask thatbecause one of the things that&#39;s interesting about being blindis you actually get a different vantage pointwhen you observe the waysighted people make choices.And as you just mentioned, there&#39;s lots of choices out therethat are very visual these days.Yeah, I — as you would expect —get pretty frustrated by choiceslike what nail polish to put onbecause I have to rely on what other people suggest.And I can&#39;t decide.And so one time I was in a beauty salon,and I was trying to decide between two very light shades of pink.And one was called &quot;Ballet Slippers.&quot;And the other one was called &quot;Adorable.&quot;(Laughter)And so I asked these two ladies,and the one lady told me, &quot;Well, you should definitely wear &#39;Ballet Slippers.&#39;&quot;&quot;Well, what does it look like?&quot;&quot;Well, it&#39;s a very elegant shade of pink.&quot;&quot;Okay, great.&quot;The other lady tells me to wear &quot;Adorable.&quot;&quot;What does it look like?&quot;&quot;It&#39;s a glamorous shade of pink.&quot;And so I asked them, &quot;Well, how do I tell them apart?What&#39;s different about them?&quot;And they said, &quot;Well, one is elegant, the other one&#39;s glamorous.&quot;Okay, we got that.And the only thing they had consensus on:well, if I could see them, I wouldclearly be able to tell them apart.
时间：22:51
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：22:53
zh-cn:所以我想她们是不是被这两种颜色的名字所影响了呢。于是我就做了个小实验，我把这两瓶指甲油带回了实验室，撕掉了标签，然后我让几个女士进了实验室，问她们：”你会选择哪一种呢“一半的人都说我在跟她们开玩笑，她们觉得这两罐指甲油是一模一样的（笑声）（掌声）这时候你就会猜想究竟是谁在耍把戏了而在撕掉标签的情况下，那些能分辨的女性会选择“粉可爱”若贴上了标签，她们又选择了”粉色芭蕾“所以就我所理解的一款玫瑰只要有不同名字，就能让它的外观看起来与其他款不同可能闻起来也有不同。
en:And what I wondered was whether they were being affectedby the name or the content of the color,so I decided to do a little experiment.So I brought these two bottles of nail polish into the laboratory,and I stripped the labels off.And I brought women into the laboratory,and I asked them, &quot;Which one would you pick?&quot;50 percent of the women accused me of playing a trick,of putting the same color nail polishin both those bottles.(Laughter)(Applause)At which point you start to wonder who the trick&#39;s really played on.Now, of the women that could tell them apart,when the labels were off, they picked &quot;Adorable,&quot;and when the labels were on,they picked &quot;Ballet Slippers.&quot;So as far as I can tell,a rose by any other nameprobably does look differentand maybe even smells different.
时间：23:46
zh-cn:布鲁诺 吉桑尼: 谢谢。希娜•亚格尔教授 。. 谢谢你Sheena.
en:BG: Thank you. Sheena Iyengar. Thank you Sheena.
时间：23:49
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
