时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我今天要跟大家谈的全球性挑战很少出现在头版头条但是，它影响之广，之深，都不可小视。这里是TED全球论坛；相信在座各位一定去过很多地方。但我仍希望带你们去一些地方，那是你们一定从没有去过的
en:The global challenge that I want to talk to you about todayrarely makes the front pages.It, however, is enormousin both scale and importance.Look, you all are very well traveled;this is TEDGlobal after all.But I do hope to take you to some placesyou&#39;ve never been to before.
时间： 0:32
zh-cn:我们从中国出发这张照片摄于两周前。这个骑在我丈夫肩膀上的小男孩其实刚高中毕业。（笑声）这是在天安门广场。你们中很多人应该都去过那儿。但那并非真正的中国。我要带你们去看看真正的中国。这是在大别山，中国中部湖北省的偏远山区。故事开始的时候，戴曼君（音译）才13岁。她和父母一起生活，还有她的两个弟弟，和她的大姨。他们所住的茅屋没有电，也没有自来水，没有手表，没有自行车。他们和一头很壮实的猪，一起住在这栋豪宅里。戴曼君读六年级时，她父母说：“我们想让你退学，学费要13块美金，对我们来说太贵了。你反正要在稻田度过一生，我们又何必在你身上浪费钱？”偏远山区的女孩子们处境都类似。
en:So, let&#39;s start off in China.This photo was taken two weeks ago.Actually, one indication is that little boy on my husband&#39;s shouldershas just graduated from high school.(Laughter)But this is Tiananmen Square.Many of you have been there. It&#39;s not the real China.Let me take you to the real China.This is in the Dabian Mountainsin the remote part of Hubei province in central China.Dai Manju is 13 years old at the time the story starts.She lives with her parents,her two brothers and her great-aunt.They have a hut that has no electricity,no running water,no wristwatch, no bicycle.And they share this great splendorwith a very large pig.Dai Manju was in sixth grade when her parents said,&quot;We&#39;re going to pull you out of schoolbecause the 13-dollar school fees are too much for us.You&#39;re going to be spending the rest of your life in the rice paddies.Why would we waste this money on you?&quot;This is what happens to girls in remote areas.
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:事实是，戴曼君是全年级最棒的学生。每一天，她跋涉两个小时去学校，恨不得抓住每一点每一滴从门缝里渗出的知识。我写了篇关于她的文章，刊登在纽约时报上。捐款像洪水一般涌来—大部分是13美金的支票，因为纽约时报的读者们在小钱上特别慷慨。（笑声）但是有一天，我们收到了一笔一万美金的转账—真是个善良的读者。我们后来把钱给了那所学校的校长。他很高兴。他想，“我可以翻修学校了。我还可以给那些女孩子发奖学金。”只要她们愿意继续努力读书。因此戴曼君完成了初中学业。她接着读了高中。她利用假期学了会计。她在中国南部的广州省求职。她找到了工作，也为她的同学和朋友找到了工作。她寄钱回家。他们盖了新房子，用上了自来水，通了电，买了自行车，不过没有猪了。
en:Turns out that Dai Manju wasthe best pupil in her grade.She still made the two-hour trek to the schoolhouseand tried to catch every little bit of informationthat seeped out of the doors.We wrote about her in The New York Times.We got a flood of donations —mostly 13-dollar checksbecause New York Times readers are very generousin tiny amounts(Laughter)but then, we got a money transferfor $10,000 —really nice guy.We turned the money over to that man there, the principal of the school.He was delighted.He thought, &quot;Oh, I can renovate the school.I can give scholarships to all the girls,you know, if they work hard and stay in school.So Dai Manju basicallyfinished out middle school.She went to high school.She went to vocational school for accounting.She scouted for jobs down in Guangdong province in the south.She found a job, she scouted for jobsfor her classmates and her friends.She sent money back to her family.They built a new house,this time with running water,electricity, a bicycle,no pig.
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:这一切都是真实而自然地发生的。很少女孩子能得到一笔额外的教育投资。这些年我们一直关注着戴曼君，我们欣慰地看到她走出世代的恶循环开创了自己的新生活。这远非是她一个人的改变，整个家族，整个村庄都因她而改变了。这个村子后来成为了远近闻名的模范村。当然了，那段时间整个中国都是一派繁荣景象。这个村子建了一条公路，从此与外界相通。
en:What we saw was a natural experiment.It is rare to get an exogenous investmentin girls&#39; education.And over the years, as we followed Dai Manju, we were able to seethat she was able to move out of a vicious cycleand into a virtuous cycle.She not only changed her own dynamic,she changed her household, she changed her family, her village.The village became a real standout.Of course, most of China was flourishing at the time,but they were able to get a road builtto link them up to the rest of China.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:我写《半边天》的两个信条之一是从这里得到启发的。这一个信条就是本世纪最大的伦理道德挑战是性别不公。在19世纪是奴隶制。在20世纪是极权主义。这两点直接导致全世界这么多人因为性别而受到不公正待遇的残酷现实。你们中有些人可能在想，“天哪，这有点太夸张了。她是在夸大事实。”那么请让我提出这个问题。你们中多少人认为世界上的男性比较多，或者女性比较多？我们来问卷调查吧。多少人认为世界上男性比较多？请举手。多少人认为世界上女性比较多？好了，绝大多数。之后举手的，你们都错了。百分之一百的事实是，在欧洲和西方国家，女人和男人在饮食和医疗享有同等待遇，女性比男性多，因为女性寿命较长。然而在其他地方，事实正相反。人口统计显示，目前人口中，存在着约6000万到1亿的女性人口缺口。
en:And that brings me to my first majorof two tenets of &quot;Half the Sky.&quot;And that is thatthe central moral challengeof this centuryis gender inequity.In the 19th century, it was slavery.In the 20th century, it was totalitarianism.The cause of our timeis the brutality that so many peopleface around the world because of their gender.So some of you may be thinking,&quot;Gosh, that&#39;s hyperbole.She&#39;s exaggerating.&quot;Well, let me ask you this question.How many of you think there are more males or more females in the world?Let me take a poll. How many of you think there are more males in the world?Hands up, please.How many of you think — a few — how many of you there are more females in the world?Okay, most of you.Well, you know this latter group, you&#39;re wrong.There are, true enough,in Europe and the West,when women and menhave equal access to food and health care,there are more women, we live longer.But in most of the rest of the world, that&#39;s not the case.In fact, demographers have shownthat there are anywhere between 60 millionand 100 millionmissing females in the current population.
时间： 4:22
zh-cn:原因有几个。比如，20世纪后50年内死于歧视的女孩比整个20世纪内死于战场的人还要多。还有一个原因是超声波的使用。资源的稀缺导致女孩甚至在出世前就被抛弃。比如，这个女孩，当时在埃塞俄比亚的一个补给中心。整个中心都是和她一样的女童。值得注意的是，她的亲生兄弟们，却全部安然无恙。在印度，从零到一岁之间，男婴和女婴的存活率相同，因为都靠母乳喂养，母亲的乳房不会多爱儿子一点。从一岁到五岁，整个印度，女孩的死亡率比男孩高50%。
en:And, you know, it happens for several reasons.For instance, in the last half-century,more girls were discriminated to deaththan all the people killed on all the battlefieldsin the 20th century.Sometimes it&#39;s also because of the sonogram.Girls get aborted before they&#39;re even bornwhen there are scarce resources.This girl here, for instance,is in a feeding center in Ethiopia.The entire center was filled with girls like her.What&#39;s remarkable is that her brothers, in the same family,were totally fine.In India, in the first year of life,from zero to one,boy and girl babies basically survive at the same ratebecause they depend upon the breast,and the breast shows no son preference.From one to five,girls die at a 50 percent higher mortality ratethan boys, in all of India.
时间： 5:14
zh-cn:《半边天》的第二个信条，让我们暂且不去争论道德理论和对错，在最现实的层面，我们认为，战胜贫困和恐怖主义的最佳途径就是让女孩接受教育，让女人成为正式劳动力。拿贫困来说。我有三个原因。第一，人口过剩持续地导致了贫困的发生。一个接受了教育的男孩，倾向于生更少的孩子，不过这种倾向很弱。而一个接受了教育的女孩，会强烈地倾向于少要孩子。第二个原因与消费有关。某种意义上，可以说是贫困的肮脏的小秘密，穷人不仅仅收入少得可怜，而且，他们也不懂如何理智地花钱。很不幸，大部分消费都是由男人决定的。有研究显示，那些每天消费两美金以下的人—这绝对是标准的贫困人群—他们百分之二的收入用于这个篮子，教育。百分之二十进了这个篮子，酒精，烟草，含糖饮料嫖妓，和节庆。如果仅把百分之四放在这个篮子里，相信会是一次质变。
en:The second tenet of &quot;Half the Sky&quot;is that, let&#39;s put aside the morality of all the right and wrong of it all,and just on a purely practical level,we think thatone of the best ways to fight poverty and to fight terrorismis to educate girlsand to bring women into the formal labor force.Poverty, for instance.There are three reasons why this is the case.For one, overpopulation is one ofthe persistent causes of poverty.And you know, when you educate a boy,his family tends to have fewer kids,but only slightly.When you educate a girl,she tends to have significantly fewer kids.The second reason isit has to do with spending.It&#39;s kind of like the dirty, little secret of poverty,which is that,not only do poor peopletake in very little income,but also, the income that they take in,they don&#39;t spend it very wisely,and unfortunately, most of that spending is done by men.So research has shown,if you look at people who live under two dollars a day —one metric of poverty —two percent of that take-home paygoes to this basket here, in education.20 percent goes to a basket that is a combination ofalcohol, tobacco, sugary drinks —and prostitution and festivals.If you just take four percentage pointsand put it into this basket,you would have a transformative effect.
时间： 6:42
zh-cn:最后一个原因，女性绝非社会问题，反而是解决方案的一部分。你必须使用稀缺资源。不给戴曼君这样的孩子机会，绝对是资源浪费。比尔盖茨有段话说的很好，是关于他在沙地阿拉伯的穿越旅行。他当时面对着和你们一样的观众。不过，大概三分之二远处，有一排围栏。围栏这一边是男人，围栏另一边是女人。然后这一边有人站起来说，“盖茨先生，我们沙地阿拉伯有个目标，就是在科技领域，成为世界上最棒的10个国家之一。你认为我们能做到吗？”比尔盖茨看着这位观众，说，“如果你们不充分利用这个国家的另一半资源，前十对你们来说永远遥不可及。”这位就是阿拉伯比尔。
en:The last reason has to dowith women being part of the solution, not the problem.You need to use scarce resources.It&#39;s a waste of resources if you don&#39;t use someone like Dai Manju.Bill Gates put it very wellwhen he was traveling through Saudi Arabia.He was speaking to an audience much like yourselves.However, two-thirds of the way there was a barrier.On this side was men,and then the barrier, and this side was women.And someone from this side of the room got up and said,&quot;Mr. Gates, we have here as our goal in Saudi Arabiato be one of the top 10 countrieswhen it comes to technology.Do you think we&#39;ll make it?&quot;So Bill Gates, as he was staring out at the audience, he said,&quot;If you&#39;re not fully utilizing half the resources in your country,there is no way you will get anywhere near the top 10.&quot;So here is Bill of Arabia.
时间： 7:29
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:那么具体来说又有哪些挑战？我认为当前最首要的是非法性交易。这一点我只说两件事。奴隶制的巅峰是在18世纪80年代。大约有8万名奴隶，从非洲被运往新大陆。今天，现代化奴隶制：美国国务院粗略统计，大约有80万人—当时数字的10倍—被非法贩卖，穿越国境。这甚至还不包括那些在国境内非法穿越的大量群体。如果再看看另一个要素，过去一个奴隶的标价换算到今天约为4万美金。今天，你可以只花几百美金买到一个女孩，这意味着她比奴隶更不值钱。不过在柬埔寨和泰国，情况已有改进。这个世界，不该有女孩被买卖或杀害。
en:So what would some of the specific challengeslook like?I would say, on the top of the agendais sex trafficking.And I&#39;ll just say two things about this.The slavery at the peak of the slave tradein the 1780s:there were about 80,000 slavestransported from Africa to the New World.Now, modern slavery:according to State Department rough statistics,there are about 800,000 — 10 times the number —that are trafficked across international borders.And that does not even include thosethat are trafficked within country borders,which is a substantial portion.And if you look atanother factor, another contrast,a slave back then is worthabout $40,000in today&#39;s money.Today, you can buy a girl traffickedfor a few hundred dollars,which means she&#39;s actually more disposable.But you know, there is progress being madein places like Cambodia and Thailand.We don&#39;t have to expect a worldwhere girls are bought and sold or killed.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:第二重要的事，是母亲的死亡率。在美国，一个孩子的出世是很美妙的事。而在尼日尔（非洲中西部国家），每7个妇女中就有1个死于难产。在全世界，每90秒就有一位准妈妈死于难产。这并不只是技术问题，而是这些女性有三个致命弱点：贫困，闭塞，还有她们是女性。另外，每死去1名产妇，有20位能幸运存活，但她们多有后遗症。最残忍的后遗症是阴道瘘管。这是一种难产时发生的撕伤，会导致失禁。
en:The second item on the agendais maternal mortality.You know, childbirth in this part of the worldis a wonderful event.In Niger, one in seven womencan expect to die during childbirth.Around the world,one woman dies every minute and a half from childbirth.You know, it&#39;s not as thoughwe don&#39;t have the technological solution,but these women have three strikes against them:they are poor, they are ruraland they are female.You know, for every woman who does die,there are 20 who survivebut end up with an injury.And the most devastating injuryis obstetric fistula.It&#39;s a tearing during obstructed laborthat leaves a woman incontinent.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:我要告诉你们马哈布巴的故事。她住在埃塞俄比亚。她13岁时被迫结婚。她怀孕了，试图在灌木丛中生下孩子，但她的身体还那么稚嫩，她不幸发生了难产。孩子死了，她得了阴道瘘管。这意味着她会失禁。她无法控制大小便。总之，她浑身发臭。村民认为她被诅咒了；他们也不知道如何对待她。所以他们把她安置在村子边缘的小草屋内。并且把门卸掉，好让土狼晚上进来吃她。那天晚上，草屋里只有一根棍子。她奋力用棍子赶跑了土狼。第二天早上，她决定去邻村找外国传教士，她知道他们会救她。因为神经受到创伤，她一路是爬过去的—30里路—她爬到的时候，已经奄奄一息。外国传教士打开门，了解了一切，带她去了亚的斯亚贝巴的一所瘘管医院，她得到了治疗，350美金的手术。那里的医生和护士还注意到，她不仅是个幸存者，她还非常聪明，所以他们让她做了护士。现在的马哈布巴，每天都在拯救生命，上百上千的女人的生命。她已经成为了解决方案的一部分，而非问题。她也冲破诅咒开始了全新的生命循环。
en:Let me tell you about Mahabuba.She lives in Ethiopia.She was married against her will at age 13.She got pregnant, ran to the bush to have the baby,but you know, her body was very immature,and she ended up having obstructed labor.The baby died, and she ended up with a fistula.So that meant she was incontinent;she couldn&#39;t control her wastes.In a word, she stank.The villagers thought she was cursed; they didn&#39;t know what to do with her.So finally, they put her at the edge of the village in a hut.They ripped off the doorso that the hyenas would get her at night.That night, there was a stick in the hut.She fought off the hyenas with that stick.And the next morning,she knew if she could get to a nearby village where there was a foreign missionary,she would be saved.Because she had some damage to her nerves,she crawled all the way — 30 miles —to that doorstep, half dead.The foreign missionary opened the door,knew exactly what had happened,took her to a nearby fistula hospital in Addis Ababa,and she was repairedwith a 350-dollar operation.The doctors and nurses there noticedthat she was not only a survivor,she was really clever, and they made her a nurse.So now, Mahabuba,she is saving the livesof hundreds, thousands, of women.She has become part of the solution, not the problem.She&#39;s moved out of a vicious cycleand into a virtuous cycle.
时间：11:01
zh-cn:我已经谈了一些挑战，现在来说说解决办法，有可预测的解决办法。其实我已经暗示过了：教育，以及经济机会。很显然，一个接受了教育的女孩，倾向于更迟结婚，更晚生孩子，生更少的孩子，并且对于她的孩子，她会给他们提供更好的启蒙教育。至于经济机会，改变是革命性的。
en:I&#39;ve talked about some of the challenges,let me talk about some of the solutions,and there are predictable solutions.I&#39;ve hinted at them: educationand also economic opportunity.So of course, when you educate a girl,she tends to get married later on in life,she tends to have kids later on in life, she tends to have fewer kids,and those kids that she does have,she educates them in a more enlightened fashion.With economic opportunity,it can be transformative.
时间：11:31
zh-cn:我要告诉你们赛玛的故事。她住在拉合尔市外的一个小村子，在巴基斯坦。她当时悲惨到家了。每一天她都被她失业的丈夫殴打。她丈夫类似赌徒，没有了工作，所以拿她出气。当她生了第二个女儿后，她婆婆对她丈夫说，“我觉得你该娶第二个妻子了。赛玛生不了儿子。”当时她刚生下二女儿。那个时候，村子里有小额贷款项目，给了她65美金的贷款。赛玛用这笔钱，开始做刺绣生意。商人们很喜欢她的刺绣；卖得很好，不停地向她进货。她没办法生产那么多，于是她雇佣村子里其她妇女。很快她的刺绣生意就雇佣了30个村子里的女人。接着，她必须把刺绣品从村子运到市场去，她需要有人帮她运输，于是她雇佣了她丈夫。现在他们一起干。他负责运输和送货，她负责生产和采购材料。他们又有了第三个女儿，三个女儿都接受了教育，因为赛玛知道最重要的是什么。
en:Let me tell you about Saima.She lives in a small village outside Lahore, Pakistan.And at the time, she was miserable.She was beaten every single dayby her husband, who was unemployed.He was kind of a gambler type — and unemployable, therefore —and took his frustrations out on her.Well, when she had her second daughter,her mother in-law told her son,&quot;I think you&#39;d better get a second wife.Saima&#39;s not going to produce you a son.&quot;This is when she had her second daughter.At the time, there wasa microlending group in the villagethat gave her a 65-dollar loan.Saima took that money,and she started an embroidery business.The merchants liked her embroidery; it sold very well,and they kept asking for more.And when she couldn&#39;t produce enough,she hired other women in the village.Pretty soon she had 30 women in the villageworking for her embroidery business.And then,when she had to transport all of the embroidery goodsfrom the village to the marketplace,she needed someone to help her do the transport,so she hired her husband.So now they&#39;re in it together.He does the transportation and distribution,and she does the production and sourcing.And now they have a third daughter,and the daughters, all of them, are being tutored in educationbecause Saima knows what&#39;s really important.
时间：12:53
zh-cn:也就是我要说的最后一点，教育。拉里•萨默斯，世界银行首席经济学家，曾说过，“世界上最高回报的投资，就是发展中国家的女童教育。”下面这个故事有关碧翠斯 比拉.碧翠斯住在乌干达，刚果边界附近，和戴曼君一样，她失学了。其实她从未去过学校，一点都没有。她的父母也说，“我们为什么要在她身上花钱？她这辈子都只需要来来回回运水。”那时候她确实只是来来回回运水。在康涅狄格州有一个团体，名为“康涅狄格州奈安蒂克教会”。他们给一个位于阿肯色州德名为“小母牛”的国际慈善组织捐款。“小母牛”送了两头山羊去非洲。其中一头最后给了碧翠斯的父母。那头山羊后来生了双胞胎。双胞胎小山羊开始产奶。他们卖山羊奶赚钱。钱越来越多，有一天她父母说，“既然我们有了足够的钱，就送碧翠斯去上学吧。”所以在她九岁时，碧翠斯开始读小学一年级—完全从头开始—和一群六岁的孩子一起。尽管如此她非常高兴。她很快赶上进度并成为了最好的学生。她始终保持着第一名，小学，中学，一直到高中，她在全国统考中考了非常棒的分数，于是她成为他们村子里，第一个拿奖学金，来到美国的人。两年前，她从康奈迪格学院毕业了。毕业那天，她说，“我如此幸运地活着，多亏一头山羊。”（笑声）那头山羊价值120美金。
en:Which brings me to the final element, which is education.Larry Summers, when he was chief economist at the World Bank,once said that, &quot;It may well bethat the highest return on investmentin the developing worldis in girls&#39; education.&quot;Let me tell you about Beatrice Biira.Beatrice was living in Ugandanear the Congo border,and like Dai Manju, she didn&#39;t go to school.Actually, she had never been to school,not to a lick, one day.Her parents, again, said,&quot;Why should we spend the money on her?She&#39;s going to spend most of her life lugging water back and forth.&quot;Well, it just so happens, at that time,there was a group in Connecticutcalled the Niantic Community Church Group in Connecticut.They made a donation to an organizationbased in Arkansascalled Heifer International.Heifer sent two goats to Africa.One of them ended up with Beatrice&#39;s parents,and that goat had twins.The twins started producing milk.They sold the milk for cash.The cash started accumulating,and pretty soon the parents said,&quot;You know, we&#39;ve got enough money. Let&#39;s send Beatrice to school.&quot;So at nine years of age,Beatrice started in first grade —after all, she&#39;d never been to a lick of school —with a six year-old.No matter, she was just delighted to be in school.She rocketed to the top of her class.She stayed at the top of her classthrough elementary school, middle school,and then in high school,she scored brilliantly on the national examinationsso that she became the first person in her village,ever, to come to the United Stateson scholarship.Two years ago,she graduated from Connecticut College.On the day of her graduation,she said, &quot;I am the luckiest girl alivebecause of a goat.&quot;(Laughter)And that goat was $120.
时间：14:50
zh-cn:你已经看到了微薄的帮助如何带来巨变。但我还要给你们看看事实。美国援助，助人不易。有些书曾批评过美国援助。比如Bill Easterly的书。书名为“死亡援助”。这些批评很中肯。这不容易。人们质问为何一年内，一半以上的水井项目都失败了。当我在津巴布韦时，一个村长带我们考察一个地方—他希望筹钱建造一所高中—几步远的地方在建造些什么东西，我就问，“那是什么？”他支支吾吾不回答。结果那是一个失败的灌溉工程。再几步远，是一个失败的鸡舍。一年时间，所有的鸡都死了，再没有人愿意在那里养鸡。这都是真实的，但我们认为这并非竹篮打水一场空；你实际上一直在进步。你从错误中学习，你一直在改进。
en:So you see how transformativelittle bits of help can be.But I want to give you a reality check.Look: U.S. aid, helping people is not easy,and there have been books that have criticized U.S. aid.There&#39;s Bill Easterly&#39;s book.There&#39;s a book called &quot;Dead Aid.&quot;You know, the criticism is fair;it isn&#39;t easy.You know, people say howhalf of all water well projects, a year later, are failed.When I was in Zimbabwe,we were touring a place with the village chief —he wanted to raise money for a secondary school —and there was some construction a few yards away,and I said, &quot;What&#39;s that?&quot;He sort of mumbled.Turns out that it&#39;s a failed irrigation project.A few yards away was a failed chicken coop.One year, all the chickens died, and no one wanted to put the chickens in there.It&#39;s true, but we think that you don&#39;t through the baby out with the bathwater;you actually improve.You learn from your mistakes, and you continuously improve.
时间：15:45
zh-cn:我们也认为个人有能力，也应该去做一些改变，聚沙成塔，我们一起就可以制造一场改变。一场男人和女人的改变，才能带来社会变革，去战胜这个艰巨的道德挑战。我想问的是，你可以为此做些什么？你可以正有这个疑问：这于我何干？我只再说两点。第一，研究显示，一旦你不必再担忧你的物质需求—我相信在座的所有人都不需担忧—研究说—还有几件事可以让你的幸福感飙升。其中一个，是超越个人范围的奉献。
en:We also think that individualscan make a difference, and they should,because individuals, together,we can all help create a movement.And a movement of men and womenis what&#39;s needed to bring about social change,change that will addressthis great moral challenge.So then, I ask,what&#39;s in it for you?You&#39;re probably asking that. Why should you care?I will just leave you with two things.One is that research showsthat once you haveall of your material needs taken care of —which most of us, all of us, here in this room do —research shows thatthere are very few things in lifethat can actually elevate your level of happiness.One of those thingsis contributing to a cause larger than yourself.
时间：16:39
zh-cn:另一个，就是我想告诉你们的一件趣事。这是一个有关在达尔富尔的援助人员的故事。这个女人在达尔富尔工作，她看到的，都非人类应该看到的事。那段时间里，她很坚定，很坚强，从未倒下。但当她回到美国的时候，正值圣诞假期，她坐在她祖母的后院里，她所看到的让她哭成了泪人。那其实是一个喂鸟器。她突然意识到她能出生在这样一个和平的国家是多么幸运，在这个国家我们不仅自己温饱无忧，居有定所，还能在寒冬里让这些小鸟免受饥饿折磨。她突然意识到，这么大的幸运，应该成为一份责任。所以，你，我，都和她一样，我们都中了生活的乐透。我们要面对的问题是：我们如何兑现相应的责任？
en:And the second thing,it&#39;s an anecdote that I&#39;ll leave you with.And that is the storyof an aid worker in Darfur.Here was a womanwho had worked in Darfur,seeing things that no human being should see.Throughout her time there,she was strong, she was steadfast.She never broke down.And then she came back to the United Statesand was on break, Christmas break.She was in her grandmother&#39;s backyard,and she saw something that made her break down in tears.What that waswas a bird feeder.And she realized that she had the great fortuneto be born in a countrywhere we take security for granted,where we not only can feed, clotheand house ourselves,but also provide for wild birdsso they don&#39;t go hungry in the winter.And she realized that with that great fortunecomes great responsibility.And so, like her,you, me,we have all won the lottery of life.And so the question becomes:how do we discharge that responsibility?
时间：17:59
zh-cn:一切由此开始。加入这场改变。让自己更快乐，让世界更美好。
en:So, here&#39;s the cause.Join the movement.Feel happier and help save the world.
时间：18:06
zh-cn:谢谢各位
en:Thank you very much.
时间：18:08
zh-cn:掌声
en:(Applause)
