时间： 0:11
zh-cn:﻿我先与大家分享一个故事。从前——事实上是不到两年以前——在一个不是很遥远的国度，有一个人，他不远千里想要去王国的心脏工作——一家国际著名公司。我们姑且称它为岛屿网络。这个王国拥有丰富的资源和雄雄的野心，万事俱备只欠人员。因此它邀请世界各地的工人来参与国家建设。然而为了进入这个王国并在其领土上停留，这些移民必须先通过一些测试。因此，我们的主人公来到该王国的权威机构面前，期望着能开始他的新生活。
en:Let&#39;s begin with a story.Once upon a time —well actually less than two years ago —in a kingdom not so very far away,there was a manwho traveled many milesto come to work at the jewel in the kingdom&#39;s crown —an internationally famous company.Let&#39;s call it Island Networks.Now this kingdom had many resourcesand mighty ambitions,but the one thing it lacked was people.And so it invited workers from around the worldto come and help it build the nation.But in order to enter and to staythese migrants had to pass a few tests.And so it was, our man presented himselfto authorities in the kingdom,looking forward to settling into his new life.
时间： 1:03
zh-cn:然而出人意料的事情发生了。从男人身上抽取血样的医务人员没有告诉他他们在检测什么。在测试前或测试后向接受测试者提供顾问咨询服务是最佳的医疗做法，然而这个男人却没有得到这项服务。也没有人告知他测试的结果。但是，几周之后，他却被送进了监狱，进行体检，他甚至在牢房中所有其他犯人面前接受了全身搜查。他被释放后一两天，就被送往机场遣返回国。这个男人到底做了什么，以至于受到如此对待？他到底犯下了什么可怕的罪行？他是艾滋病毒携带者。
en:But then something unexpected happened.The medical personnel who took blood samples from the mannever actually told him what they were testing for.He wasn&#39;t offered counseling before or after the test,which is best medical practice.He was never informed of the results of the test.And yet, a couple of weeks later,he was picked up and taken to prisonwhere he was subjected to a medical exam,including a full-body searchin full view of the others in the cell.He was released, but then a day or two later,he was taken to the airport and he was deported.What on earth did this man doto merit this treatment?What was his terrible crime?He was infected with HIV.
时间： 1:58
zh-cn:该国对艾滋病病毒携带者入境及在国内停留加以限制，世界上有类似规定的国家大约有五十个。该国宣称，法律赋予他们权利拘留或者遣返对该国的经济、安全、公共健康以及道德标准造成危险的外国人。然而用这样的法律限制艾滋病携带者，却违反了这些国家都签署了的国际人权协定。但是你知道吗？不谈原则问题，从实际的角度出发，这样的法律造成了艾滋病的隐蔽化。人们越来越不愿意接受测试、治疗或者公开他们的情况，这些法律声称保护的人群和社区没有从中得到任何帮助。
en:Now the kingdom is one of about 50 countriesthat imposes restrictions on the entry or stayof people living with HIV.The kingdom arguesthat its laws allow it to detain or deport foreignerswho pose a risk to the economyor the security or the public healthor the morals of the state.But these laws, when applied to people living with HIV,are a violation of international human rights agreementsto which these countries are signatories.But you know what?Matters of principle aside,practically speaking, these laws drive HIV underground.People are less likely to come forthto be tested or treated or to disclose their condition,none of which helps these individualsor the communities these laws purport to protect.
时间： 2:55
zh-cn:现在我们已经可以预防艾滋病病毒的传播。通过合理的治疗病情完全可以得到控制。人类应对令人恐惧的疾病的可行方法一度只有放逐那些患病的人，如“被流放的麻风病人”。但那样的日子早已远去。为什么在科学技术高度发达的今天，我们仍旧有这样来自迷信时代的法律和政策呢？
en:Today we can prevent the transmission of HIV.And with treatment, it is a manageable condition.We are very far from the dayswhen the only practical response to dread diseasewas to have banished the afflicted —like this, &quot;The Exile of the Leper.&quot;So you tell me why, in our age of science,we still have laws and policieswhich come from an age of superstition.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:我们可以花一点点时间现场测试一样，在座的接触过艾滋病的人请举手——无论是你自己是病毒携带者还是你有家人、朋友、同事是病毒携带者都算接触。请举手。哇，哇，数量相当可观。
en:Time for a quick show of hands.Who here has been touched by HIV —either because you yourself have the virusor you have a family member or a friend or a colleaguewho is living with HIV?Hands up.Wow. Wow.That&#39;s a significant number of us.
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:那你们都应该清楚艾滋病会暴露人性中最美好和最丑陋的东西。而法律则会反映社会对艾滋病的态度。我指的不光是文件上的法律，还有在街头以及法庭中被践行的法律。而且我指的不仅是与艾滋病病毒携带者直接相关的法律，还有与高危人群相关的法律——如注射毒品的人、性工作者、与男性发生性关系的男性、变性人、移民以及囚犯。在世界上的很多地区女性和孩子也是极易感染的高危人群。
en:You know better than anyonethat HIV brings outthe best and the worst in humanity.And the laws reflect these attitudes.I&#39;m not just talking about laws on the books,but laws as they are enforced on the streetsand laws as they are decided in the courts.And I&#39;m not just talking about lawsas they relate to people living with HIV,but people who are at greatest risk of infection —people such as those who inject drugs or sex workersor men who have sex with menor transgendered personsor migrants or prisoners.And in many parts of the world that includes women and childrenwho are especially vulnerable.
时间： 4:28
zh-cn:世界上很多地区的法律都反映了人性最美好的一面。这些法律本着同情和接受的精神来对待与艾滋病有接触的人群。这些法律尊重普世人权，有理有据。这些法律确保艾滋病病毒携带者和高危人群不受暴力和歧视伤害，并有能力预防艾滋病或者得到治疗。不幸的是，这些好的法律所发挥的作用被大量糟糕的法律所抵消——如以道德指责为依据的法律、以恐惧和错误的信息为依据的法律、惩罚艾滋病病毒携带者或者高危人群的法律。这样的法律忽略科学事实，以偏见、无知、不科学的传统，以及对宗教的片面解读为依据。
en:Now there are laws in many parts of the worldwhich reflect the best of human nature.These laws treat people touched by HIVwith compassion and acceptance.These laws respect universal human rightsand they are grounded in evidence.These laws ensure that people living with HIVand those at greatest riskare protected from violence and discriminationand that they get access to prevention and to treatment.Unfortunately, these good lawsare counter-balanced by a massof really bad law —law which is grounded in moral judgementand in fear and in misinformation,laws which specifically punish people living with HIVor those at greatest risk.These laws fly in the face of science,and they are grounded in prejudiceand in ignorance and in a rewriting of traditionand a selective reading of religion.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:但你知道吗？你不必相信我的话。我们来听另外两个人的心声，他们都直接被这些法律影响。第一个是美国人，Nick Rhoades。根据美国爱荷华州法律，他被定罪了—罪行： 蓄意散播爱滋病毒—然而他根本没有这个意图。
en:But you know what? You don&#39;t have to take my word for it.We&#39;re going to hear from two peoplewho are on the sharp end of the law.The first is Nick Rhoades. He&#39;s an American.And he was convicted under the U.S. State of Iowa&#39;s lawon HIV transmission and exposure —neither of which offense he actually committed.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:（视频）Nick Rhoades： 被宣判违反法律条文，就像是在告诉社会大众，这是不可接受的不良行为。我认为这种惩罚的严重性在于，它告诉你你是一个多么糟糕的人。你是个 B 类重罪犯，一生都是个性犯罪者。你是一个非常，非常，非常不好的人，你做了一件非常，非常，非常不好的事情。这就像是精神制约，你必须接受行为治疗，而且你身边所有人都像是在说：你是个很不好的人。
en:(Video) Nick Rhoades: If something is against the lawthen that is telling societythat is unacceptable, that&#39;s bad behavior.And I think the severity of that punishmenttells you how bad you are as a person.You&#39;re a class B felon,lifetime sex offender.You are a very, very, very bad person.And you did a very, very, very bad thing.And so that&#39;s just programmed into you.And you go through the correctional systemand everyone&#39;s telling you the same thing.And you&#39;re just like, I&#39;m a very bad person.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:Shereen El-Feki：这问题的严重性不只是法律的不公正或无效力。一些国家有良好的法律，可以阻止爱滋病毒的蔓延。问题是这些法律被藐视了。爱滋病毒感染者或高风险者被社会大众贴上了耻辱的标签，他们不配当一般公民。而这正是住在纳米比亚的Helma和Dongo所亲身经历的事情。
en:Shereen El-Feki: It&#39;s not just a questionof unfair or ineffective laws.Some countries have good laws,laws which could stem the tide of HIV.The problem is that these laws are flouted.Because stigma gives unofficial licenseto treat people living with HIVor those at greatest riskunlike other citizens.And this is exactly what happenedto Helma and Dongo from Namibia.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:（视频）Helma： 那天我去医院去做妊娠的例行体检。护士宣布每个怀孕的女人都必须接受爱滋病感染测试。我做了测试，结果发现我被感染了。这天，我得知我是爱滋病患者，那护士对我说：&quot;为什么你们这种人明明感染了爱滋病还要怀孕?你们干嘛要怀孕?&quot;我敢肯定这是他们给我绝育的原因，因为我是爱滋病毒携带者。他们没给我表格，也没有解释表格上有什么，那个护士只是在表格上标出我要签名的栏位。我正经历分娩的痛楚，无力要求他们对我解释那些表格，我就乖乖的签名了。
en:(Video) Hilma: I found outwhen I went to the hospital for a pregnancy check-up.The nurse announced that every pregnant womanmust also be tested for HIV that day.I took the test and the result showed I was positive.That&#39;s the day I found out.The nurse said to me, &quot;Why should you people bcome pregnantwhen you know you are HIV positive?Why are you pregnant when you are living positive?&quot;I am sure now that is the reason they sterilized me.Because I am HIV positive.They didn&#39;t give the forms to meor explain what was in the form.The nurse just came with italready marked where I had to sign.And with the labor pain,I didn&#39;t have the strength to ask them to read it to me.I just signed.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:SE：Helma，Nick和那个故事中的主角，根据统计，是世界上3千4百万爱滋病感染者其中的一员。他们是幸运的，因为他们还活着。根据相关估计，2010年有1百80万人死于爱滋病。这些数字令人惊恐。但如果我们更详细地看这些统计，我们可以找到一丝希望的曙光。
en:SE: Hilma and Nick and our man in the kingdomare among the 34 million people living with HIVaccording to recent estimates.They&#39;re the lucky onesbecause they&#39;re still alive.According to those same estimates,in 2010 1.8 million people diedof AIDS related causes.These are terrible and tragic figures.But if we look a little more broadly into the statistics,we actually see some reason for hope.
时间： 8:25
zh-cn:综观全球，新的爱滋病感染人数与爱滋病死亡人数，都正在下降。有很多原因促进这个发展，其中一个最引人注目的是越来越多人开始接受抗转录病毒疗法，这个疗法可以有效抑制爱滋病毒发作。
en:Looking globally, the number of new infections of HIV is declining.And looking globally as well,deaths are also starting to fall.There are many reasons for these positive developments,but one of the most remarkableis in the increase in the number of people around the worldon anti-retroviral therapy,the medicines they need to keep their HIV in check.
时间： 8:50
zh-cn:现在仍有许多问题待解，只有约一半需要治疗的人能得到该治疗。在世界上有些地方—像在中东和北非—新感染病例与死亡人数正在攀升。而我们需要的经费，对抗全球爱滋病毒的经费，却在萎缩。但，这是第一次，从这流行病蔓延的三十年来，我们真正有机会来对付爱滋病毒。为了做到这一点，我们需要对抗这些普遍存在的坏法律。
en:Now there are still many problems.Only about half of the people who need treatmentare currently receiving it.In some parts of the world —like here in the Middle East and North Africa —new infections are rising and so are deaths.And the money, the money we needfor the global response to HIV,that is shrinking.But for the first timein three decades into this epidemicwe have a real chance to come to grips with HIV.But in order to do thatwe need to tackle an epidemic of really bad law.
时间： 9:28
zh-cn:正是出于这个原因，联合国签署建立了全球爱滋病法监督委员会，而我是其中的一员，去监督爱滋病毒感染者和那些高风险族群所处在的法律环境。并且给出建议，如何使法律成为对抗全球爱滋病毒的盟友而不是敌人。
en:It&#39;s for this reasonthat the Global Commission on HIV and the Law,of which I&#39;m a member,was established by the agencies of the United Nations —to look at the ways that legal environmentsare affecting people living with HIVand those at greatest risk,and to recommend what should be doneto make the law an ally, not an enemy,of the global response to HIV.
时间： 9:51
zh-cn:让我给你举个例子来说明，正确的法律环境可以带来积极的改变。注射毒品的人是我提到的族群之一。他们是感染爱滋病的高危险群，通过受污染的注射设备和其它危险行为而感染。事实上，每10个感染人之中，就有一个是毒品注射者。现在毒品滥用或持有几乎在每个国家都是违法的。但一些国家对此采取很强硬的手段。
en:Let me give you just one exampleof the way a legal environmentcan make a positive difference.People who inject drugsare one of those groups I mentioned.They&#39;re at high risk of HIVthrough contaminated injection equipmentand other risk-related behaviors.In fact, one in every 10 new infections of HIVis among people who inject drugs.Now drug use or possessionis illegal in almost every country.But some countries take a harder line on this than others.
时间：10:25
zh-cn:在泰国，使用毒品，或只是受到怀疑有在用毒，就会被关在扣留中心，如同您看到的，他们被迫在此断毒癮。世上绝对没有任何证据指出只要把人关在拘留所就可以治疗毒品依赖。反而，有充分的证据显示，把人当囚犯监禁，会增加爱滋病毒和其他感染的风险。
en:In Thailand people who use drugs,or are merely suspected of using drugs,are placed in detention centers,like the one you see here,where they are supposed to clean up.There is absolutely no evidenceto show that throwing people into detentioncures their drug dependence.There is, however, ample evidenceto show that incarcerating peopleincreases their risk of HIV and other infections.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:我们知道如何减少毒品注射者感染爱滋病与其他疾病的风险。这叫做减低伤害。包括清洁针头，注射器，提供毒品替代疗法，和其他经过验证有疗效的治疗法，来减少药物依赖性。还有卫生教育，保险套的使用宣导，提供爱滋病毒检测，提供咨询，都可保护人们，并降低感染机率。一个减低伤害的法律环境会带来惊人的成效。
en:We know how to reduce HIV transmission and other risksin people who inject drugs.It&#39;s called harm reduction,and it involves, among other things,providing clean needles and syringes,offering opioid substitution therapyand other evidence-based treatmentsto reduce drug dependence.It involves providing informationand education and condomsto reduce HIV transmission,and also providing HIV testingand counseling and treatmentshould people become infected.Where the legal environment allows for harm reductionthe results are striking.
时间：11:36
zh-cn:澳大利亚和瑞士，这两个国家在爱滋病毒传播的初期，就推出减低伤害的法律环境，它们的毒品注射者感染爱滋病的机率非常低。而美国和马来西亚较慢推行减低伤害的法律环境，它们则有较高的爱滋病毒感染率。至于泰国和俄罗斯，它们拒绝推行减低伤害，并用严酷的刑法，来惩治毒品滥用。所以，嘿，毒品注射者很多都感染了爱滋病毒。
en:Australia and Switzerlandwere two countries which introduced harm reductionvery early on in their HIV epidemics,and they have a very low rate of HIVamong injecting drug users.The U.S. and Malaysiacame to harm reduction a little later,and they have higher rates of HIV in these populations.Thailand and Russia, however,have resisted harm reductionand have stringent lawswhich punish drug use.And hey, surprise,very high rates of HIV among people who are injecting drugs.
时间：12:11
zh-cn:我们的委员会已研究了证据，并聆听了亲身经历者，共7百多人，涵盖140个国家。这个趋势是很明显的。只要感染者或高风险族群被当成罪犯，无论何处，都是对这流行病火上加油。找出爱滋病毒的疫苗甚至解药，那是非常复杂的科学。但改变法律并不那么复杂。事实上，许多国家正如火如荼的在展开改革。首先，国家需要审查涉及到爱滋病与弱势群体的法律。审查之后，各国政府应废除那些惩罚或歧视爱滋病毒携带者与高风险者的不良法律。
en:At the Global Commission we have studied the evidence,and we&#39;ve heard the experiencesof over 700 people from 140 countries.And the trend? Well the trend is clear.Where you criminalize people living with HIVor those at greatest risk,you fuel the epidemic.Now coming up with a vaccine for HIVor a cure for AIDS —now that&#39;s rocket science.But changing the law isn&#39;t.And in fact, a number of countries are starting to make progresson a number of points.To begin, countries need to review their legislationas it touches HIV and vulnerable groups.On the back of those reviews,governments should repeal lawsthat punish or discriminate against people living with HIVor those at greatest risk.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:废除法律并非易事，当它涉及毒品和性等敏感话题的时候，更是格外困难。但，在这个过程中，我们还能做很多事，其中一个关键点，是警方的改进，他们在执法中应有更好表现。例如那些分发保险套到弱势族群的外展工作人员，不应自己受到警员骚扰，谩骂或任意逮捕。我们还可以训练法官，让他们在法律中找到弹性，用宽容来裁定，而不是偏见。我们可以整备监狱，预防与减少爱滋病毒危害监狱里的囚犯。
en:Repealing a law isn&#39;t easy,and it&#39;s particularly difficultwhen it relates to touchy subjects like drugs and sex.But there&#39;s plenty you can do while that process is underway.One of the key points is to reform the policeso that they have better practices on the ground.So for example, outreach workerswho are distributing condoms to vulnerable populationsare not themselves subject to police harassmentor abuse or arbitrary arrest.We can also train judgesso that they find flexibilities in the lawand so that they rule on the side of tolerancerather than prejudice.We can retool prisonsso that HIV prevention and harm reductionis available to prisoners.
时间：13:47
zh-cn:而最为关键的，是加强民间团体的力量，因为民间团体可以帮助弱势族群意识到他们拥有的法律权利。但只有意识是不够的，我们还需要采取行动，确保这些爱滋病患者或高风险族群能有通道获得法律服务，且确保他们平等出庭的机会。另外，与社区对话也极为重要。这样，我们能对宗教与习俗法条做重新诠释，让它们不再助长不合理的惩罚和歧视。
en:The key to all this is reinforcing civil society.Because civil society is keyto raising awareness among vulnerable groupsof their legal rights.But awareness needs action.And so we need to ensurethat these people who are living with HIVor at greatest risk of HIVhave access to legal servicesand they have equal access to the courts.And also important is talking to communitiesso that we change interpretationsof religious or customary law,which is too often usedto justify punishment and fuel stigma.
时间：14:23
zh-cn:对很多在场的人来说，爱滋病毒不是个抽象的威胁，它的影响伸手可触。另一方面，法律，看似艰涩，遥远而神秘，只有专家才懂，但事实并不是这样。因为对于我们这些生活在民主国家，或正在追求民主的国家的人民，法律起始于我们。
en:For many of us hereHIV is not an abstract threat.It hits very close to home.The law, on the other hand,can seem remote, arcane, the stuff of specialists,but it isn&#39;t.Because for those of us who live in democracies,or in aspiring democracies,the law begins with us.
时间：14:48
zh-cn:法律必须起始于平等，无论是对待爱滋病族群，或是对待我们，皆须平等。如果我们要爱滋病毒在我们这一代停止蔓延，那我们必须广泛推动这个变革。
en:Laws that treat people living with HIVor those at greatest risk with respectstart with the way that we treat them ourselves: as equals.If we are going to stop the spread of HIV in our lifetime,then that is the change we need to spread.
时间：15:07
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you.
时间：15:08
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
