时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我想能和第一次演讲一样，选择一个轻松的主题。上一次我谈论了关于生与死。这次我要谈谈精神疾病。但它应该是技术性的，所以我要谈谈电击疗法。（笑声）
en:I&#39;d like to do pretty much what I did the first time,which is to choose a light-hearted theme.Last time, I talked about death and dying.This time, I&#39;m going to talk about mental illness.But it has to be technological,so I&#39;ll talk about electroshock therapy. (Laughter)
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:大家知道，自从人们发现周边其他人，同僚等可能是和自己不同的，可能是行径奇怪，或者可能是严重抑郁的或者是我们现在所指的精神分裂症就断定患了这种病一定是种魔鬼附体的病症。为了治疗这种病症在早期，应用了不同方法，众所周知，驱魔法一直沿用至今。
en:You know, ever since man had any notionthat some of his other people, his colleagues,could be different, could be strange, could be severely depressedor what we now recognize as schizophrenia,he was certain that this kind of illnesshad to come from evil spirits getting into the body.So, the way of treating these diseasesin early times was to, in some way or other,exorcise those evil spirits, and this is still going on, as you know.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:但是仅仅靠祭司是不够的。在约公元前450年，医药成为一门学科，希波克拉底（希腊的名医，被尊为医学之父）和学生们尝试研究、寻找草药、植物，从中找出将恶魔驱除出人体的药方。他们发现某些植物可以引发人体抽搐。到中世纪后期和文艺复兴时期的植物学书，即各种”本草集“，里面记录有很多药方都能靠诱发抽筋来驱除恶魔。
en:But it wasn&#39;t enough to use the priests.When medicine became somewhat scientific, in about 450 BC,with Hippocrates and those boys,they tried to look for herbs, plantsthat would literally shake the bad spirits out.So, they found certain plants that could cause convulsions.And the herbals, the botanical books of up to the late Middle Ages,the Renaissance are filled with prescriptionsfor causing convulsions to shake the evil spirits out.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:最后，大约在16世纪，一个物理学家，名字叫做Theophrastus Bombastus Auricularis von Hohenheim被称作帕拉塞尔苏斯，在座可能有人知道这个名字-（笑声）-老顽固帕拉塞尔苏斯，发现他可以预测抽搐的程度通过使用定量的樟脑诱发人体抽搐。你可以想象吗，走到你的衣橱，拿出一颗樟脑球然后嚼食它，想象这样缓解抑郁？这个比百忧解（抗抑郁药)有效，但是我可不推荐这么做。
en:Finally, in about the sixteenth century,a physician whose name was Theophrastus Bombastus Aureolus von Hohenheim,called Paracelsus, a name probably familiar to some people here —(Laughter) — good, old Paracelsusfound that he could predict the degree of convulsionby using a measured amount of camphor to produce the convulsion.Can you imagine going to your closet, pulling out a mothball, andchewing on it if you&#39;re feeling depressed?It&#39;s better than Prozac, but I wouldn&#39;t recommend it.
时间： 2:12
zh-cn:发展到17，18世纪人类继续寻找除了樟脑外的其他办法。这时出现了本杰明.富兰克林，通过风筝电流，他几乎诱发自己抽搐这是通过风筝传导的雷电电流。然后人们开始思考通过电流诱发抽搐。
en:So what we see in the seventeenth, eighteenth centuryis the continued search for medications other than camphor that&#39;ll do the trick.Well, along comes Benjamin Franklin,and he comes close to convulsing himselfwith a bolt of electricity off the end of his kite.And so people begin thinking in terms of electricity to produce convulsions.
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:到了大约1932年，3位主要治疗抑郁症的意大利精神病专家注意到他们的忧郁症病人中，那些同时患有癫痫症的患者，如果他们癫痫症发作后，连续发作多次许多人抑郁症便减轻不仅仅是减轻，还可能完全根治。所以他们对诱发抽搐很感兴趣，控制抽搐的程度。
en:And then, we fast-forward to about 1932,when three Italian psychiatrists, who were largely treating depression,began to notice among their patients, who were also epileptics,that if they had an epileptic — a series of epileptic fits,a lot of them in a row — the depression would very frequently lift.Not only would it lift, but it might never return.So they got very interested in producing convulsions,measured types of convulsions.
时间： 3:04
zh-cn:他们认为，“我们有电源，我们可以把身体通电试试看。这样通电后体验者人头发竖起，身体颤动。”于是，他们在猪身上做了几次试验，没有一头猪被电死。然后他们去找警察说，“我们知道在罗马火车站很多无家可归之人四处流浪，成天疯疯癫癫，你们能带来一个给我们做实验吗？”这就是意大利人常说的“脑袋秀逗“”短路了“于是他们找到了这样一个”脑袋秀逗“的人，一个39岁的重度精神分裂男患者众人都知道他已经好几个月了，他在自己身上大小便，整天胡言乱语，他被送到医院。接下来这三个精神病专家经过2-3周的观察，让他平躺到一个桌子上，把他的太阳穴用非常微弱的电流连接起来。他们想“我们先试55伏特，2/10秒。这不会对他造成伤害。”然后他们就尝试了。
en:And they thought, &quot;Well, we&#39;ve got electricity, we&#39;ll plug somebody into the wall.That always makes hair stand up and people shake a lot.&quot;So, they tried it on a few pigs, and none of the pigs were killed.So, they went to the police and they said,&quot;We know that at the Rome railroad station,there are all these lost souls wandering around,muttering gibberish. Can you bring one of them to us?&quot;Someone who is, as the Italians say, &quot;cagoots.&quot;So they found this &quot;cagoots&quot; guy,a 39-year-old man who was really hopelessly schizophrenic,who was known, had been known for months,to be literally defecating on himself,talking nothing that made any sense,and they brought him into the hospital.So these three psychiatrists, after about two or three weeks of observation,laid him down on a table,connected his temples to a very small source of current.They thought, &quot;Well, we&#39;ll try 55 volts, two-tenths of a second.That&#39;s not going to do anything terrible to him.&quot;So they did that.
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:下面是我从一个第一手观察者处获得的，他在35年前告诉我的，当时我正在思考电疗这些事情我有些研究项目，他说，“这家伙”——记着，甚至没法让他入睡——“在这次癫痫大发作以后，立刻坐起来，盯着三个专家说，”你们他妈的想对我做什么？“（笑声）如果我能用意大利语说这个就好了。
en:Well, I have the following from a firsthand observer,who told me this about 35 years ago,when I was thinking about these thingsfor some research project of mine.He said, &quot;This fellow&quot; — remember, he wasn&#39;t even put to sleep —&quot;after this major grand mal convulsion,sat right up, looked at these three fellas and said,&#39;What the fuck are you assholes trying to do?&#39; &quot;(Laughter)If I could only say that in Italian.
时间： 4:39
zh-cn:专家们很高兴，因为这个流浪汉在过去几周观察期间，从未说过如此清醒符合逻辑的话。于是，他们又给他通电，这次，他们用110伏特，持续半秒。让他们吃惊的是，经过这次尝试，流浪汉开始说话，完全跟正常人一样了。他偶尔复发，专家继续进行一系列的治疗，他基本上被治愈了。当然，他有精神分裂症，几个月内又患病了。
en:Well, they were happy as could be, because hehadn&#39;t said a rational word in the weeks of observation.So they plugged him in again,and this time they used 110 volts for half a second.And to their amazement, after it was over,he began speaking like he was perfectly well.He relapsed a little bit, they gave him a series of treatments,and he was essentially cured.But of course, having schizophrenia,within a few months, it returned.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:但是专家们针对这个试验完成了篇报告，然后西方医疗界开始使用电击疗法诱发病人抽搐，以治疗精神分裂症或者严重抑郁症。在治疗精神分裂症上，电击疗法效果不是很好，但是在30年代和40年代中期，很明显电击治疗对于治疗忧郁症非常非常有效。
en:But they wrote a paper about this,and everybody in the Western world began using electricityto convulse people who were either schizophrenic or severely depressed.It didn&#39;t work very well on the schizophrenics,but it was pretty clear in the &#39;30s and by the middle of the &#39;40sthat electroconvulsive therapy was very, very effectivein the treatment of depression.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:当然，在那个时候，没有抗抑郁的药，电击疗法就非常普遍。医生会麻醉患者，电击使他们抽搐，但是真正的困难是，没办法抑制肌肉抽搐结果患者会有癫痫大发作。骨头断裂-特别是老年人，骨质脆弱的人，不能使用这个疗法。后来，到了50年代后期，有了肌肉弛缓药，药理学家发明的，这样就可以施予完整的电击诱发抽搐过程，脑电图癫痫—你可以从脑波看出来—不会引发身体的抽搐，除了一点点的脚趾抽动。所以电击疗法变得非常非常普遍和有效。
en:And of course, in those days, there were no antidepressant drugs,and it became very, very popular.They would anesthetize people,convulse them, but the real difficulty wasthat there was no way to paralyze muscles.So people would have a real grand mal seizure.Bones were broken. Especially in old, fragile people,you couldn&#39;t use it.And then in the 1950s, late 1950s, the so-called muscle relaxantswere developed by pharmacologists,and it got so that you could induce a complete convulsion,an electroencephalographic convulsion — you could see it on the brain waves —without causing any convulsion in the body except a little bit of twitching of the toes.So again, it was very, very popular and very, very useful.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:到了60年代中期，第一代抗抑郁药盐酸丙咪嗪产生了。至70年代末，80年代初期，又有了其他一些药，这些药都很有效。当时电击治疗患者的权益团体非常不满抗议他们目睹的一些电击治疗方式。所以电休克和电击疗法消失了-但是过去的10年里，又复苏了。它复兴的原因是，大约10%的人，重度抑郁症患者，对什么治疗都没有反应。
en:Well, you know, in the middle &#39;60s,the first antidepressants came out. Tofranil was the first.In the late &#39;70s, early &#39;80s, there were others,and they were very effective.And patients&#39; rights groups seemed to get very upsetabout the kinds of things that they would witness.And so the whole idea of electroconvulsive, electroshock therapy disappeared,but has had a renaissance in the last 10 years.And the reason that it has had a renaissanceis that probably about 10 percent of the people, severe depressives,do not respond, regardless of what is done for them.
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:我为什么要给你们讲这些？我讲这个故事，是因为理查给我打电话让我谈这个-就像他对其他演讲者一样-谈一些对观众来说是很新鲜的话题，一个从未谈过和写过的话题。我一直在期待这个时刻。真正的原因是大约30年前2个长疗程的电击疗法挽救了我的生命。让我给你们讲讲这个故事。
en:Now, why am I telling you this story at this meeting?I&#39;m telling you this story, because actually ever sinceRichard called me and asked me to talk about— as he asked all of his speakers —to talk about something that would be new to this audience,that we had never talked about, never written about,I&#39;ve been planning this moment.This reason really is that I am a man who, almost 30 years ago,had his life saved by two long courses of electroshock therapy.And let me tell you this story.
时间： 7:38
zh-cn:60年代我结婚了，用“糟糕透了”这个词都不足以形容简直是糟糕极了。我相信在座的就有离婚的人知道那种敌意、愤怒，谁知道呢。我有不堪的童年经历，青春期也很痛苦，虽然不是穷困潦倒，也差不多。生长在一个无人说英语的家庭里，没人能读或写英语。亲人经历了疾病和死亡，还有其他的不幸我有点抑郁的倾向。
en:I was, in the 1960s, in a marriage. To use the word badwould be perhaps the understatement of the year.It was dreadful.There are, I&#39;m sure, enough divorced people in this roomto know about the hostility, the anger, who knows what.Being someone who had had a very difficult childhood,a very difficult adolescence —it had to do with not quite poverty but close.It had to do with being brought up in a family where no one spoke English,no one could read or write English.It had to do with death and disease and lots of other things.I was a little prone to depression.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:所以事情变得越来越糟，我们开始相互憎恨，我在那几年里逐渐变得抑郁，虽努力挽救婚姻，但却无法挽救。最后，我所有的大手术，都安排在中午12点，下午1点因为我无法在上午11点前起床。在座有过抑郁症的人都能了解。我甚至没力气把被子掀开。
en:So, as things got worse, as we really began to hate each other,I became progressively depressed over a period of a couple of years,trying to save this marriage,which was inevitably not to be saved.Finally, I would schedule — all my major surgical cases,I was scheduling them for 12, one o&#39;clock in the afternoon,because I couldn&#39;t get out of bed before about 11 o&#39;clock.And anybody who&#39;s been depressed here knows what that&#39;s like.I couldn&#39;t even pull the covers off myself.
时间： 8:54
zh-cn:我是在大学附属医疗中心，大家都很熟，我的同事们都知道我，所以我转接病人减少。当我的病人越来越少的时候，我变得更加抑郁一直到我发现，天呢，我不能再工作了。事实上这对我也没什不同，因为我也没有病人了。
en:Well, you&#39;re in a university medical center,where everybody knows everybody, and it&#39;s perfectly clear to my colleagues,so my referrals began to decrease.As my referrals began to decrease,I clearly became increasingly depresseduntil I thought, my God, I can&#39;t work anymore.And, in fact, it didn&#39;t make any differencebecause I didn&#39;t have any patients anymore.
时间： 9:14
zh-cn:所以，接受我医师的建议，我住进了我们大学医院的急性精神病治疗科。那些从医学院就认识我的同事们告诉我“不要担心，伙计，6周，你就会回到手术室。一切都会好的。”你知道什么是扯淡吗？这些话就是扯淡。我知道有些人就靠这些谎言才有了终身教授的名头。（笑声）我是他们谎言的活证。
en:So, with the advice of my physician,I had myself admitted to the acute care psychiatric unit of our university hospital.And my colleagues, who had known me since medical schoolin that place, said, &quot;Don&#39;t worry, chap. Six weeks,you&#39;re back in the operating room. Everything&#39;s going to be great.&quot;Well, you know what bovine stercus is?That proved to be a lot of bovine stercus.I know some people who got tenure in that place with lies like that.(Laughter)So I was one of their failures.
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:事情不是那么简单。因为后来我出了院，根本就没有对我起作用。我几乎看不到我面前5英尺的东西。我拖着脚走路，我弯着腰。我几乎不洗澡，也不刮胡子。太糟糕了。我的状况很明显—我自己不知道我当时什么都不知道—明显我需要长期的入院治疗住进在那个糟糕的叫做精神病院的地方。所以1973年春天我住院了，住在Living学院，以前被称作哈特福特疗养院。Living学院18世纪建成，是康涅狄格州除了大型医院外最大的精神病院在当时是这样的。
en:But it wasn&#39;t that simple. Because by the timeI got out of that unit, I was not functional at all.I could hardly see five feet in front of myself.I shuffled when I walked. I was bowed over.I rarely bathed. I sometimes didn&#39;t shave. It was dreadful.And it was clear — not to me,because nothing was clear to me at that time anymore —that I would need long-term hospitalizationin that awful place called a mental hospital.So I was admitted, in 1973, in the spring of 1973,to the Institute of Living, which used to be called the Hartford Retreat.It was founded in the eighteenth century,the largest psychiatric hospital in the state ofConnecticut, other than the huge public hospitalsthat existed at that time.
时间：10:47
zh-cn:住院后，医生尽其所能。他们试了常规的心理疗法，也尝试了那个时候所有可能的药物。他们用了盐酸丙咪嗪和其他药-,硫醚嗪，谁知道。什么疗效都没有，除了害我得了黄疸病。最后，因为我在康涅狄格州很出名，他们决定组成专家组开个会。所有的高级专家聚在一起，后来我才知道。
en:And they tried everything they had.They tried the usual psychotherapy.They tried every medication available in those days.And they did have Tofranil and other things — Mellaril, who knows what.Nothing happened except that I got jaundiced from one of these things.And finally, because I was well known in Connecticut,they decided they better have a meeting of the senior staff.All the senior staff got together, and I later found out what happened.
时间：11:17
zh-cn:他们集体讨论的结论是他们无能为力了因为患者已经和世界脱节，完全垮了。不仅是郁闷感受无价值的和无能的感觉，还有无法摆脱的强迫性思考，满脑子在想各种巧合有一些特别的数字，每次我看到都让我有种痛苦，还有各种怪癖糟糕透了。记得小时候走路，你要踩到地上每条线吗？我曾是个有这些怪癖的成年人，脑中有种可怕的恐惧。你们看过孟克的画“呐喊”。“呐喊”。每个时刻都在呐喊。这是非常可怕的。所以医生认为我无药可救了，没有办法治疗。但是有一个方法，这个方法在19世纪40年代曾经在Hartford医院率先使用过，你可以想象这是什么方法。前脑叶白质切除术。所以医生决定-不让我知道这一切。我后来还是知道了-唯一能做的就是对于这个43岁的男人前脑叶白质切除术。
en:They put all their heads together and they decidedthat there was nothing that could be donefor this surgeon who had essentially separated himself from the world,who by that time had become so overwhelmed,not just with depression and feelingsof worthlessness and inadequacy,but with obsessional thinking,obsessional thinking about coincidences.And there were particular numbers that every time I saw them,just got me dreadfully upset — all kinds of ritualistic observances,just awful, awful stuff.Remember when you were a kid, and you had to step on every line?Well, I was a grown man who had all of these rituals,and it got so there was a throbbing, there was a ferocious fear in my head.You&#39;ve seen this painting by Edvard Munch,The Scream. Every moment was a scream.It was impossible. So they decided there was no therapy,there was no treatment. But there was one treatment,which actually had been pioneered at the Hartford hospital in the early 1940s,and you can imagine what it was. It was pre-frontal lobotomy.So they decided — I didn&#39;t know this, again,I found this out later —that the only thing that could be done wasfor this 43-year-old man to have a pre-frontallobotomy.
时间：12:41
zh-cn:就像所有的医院一样，有一个住院医生被指派给我。他27岁，他每周跟我见2-3次面。我当时在医院住了3-4月。他跟其他资深的医生会诊, 资深医生同意跟他会诊因为他是个深思熟虑的人。他们认为他前途无量。
en:Well, as in all hospitals, there was a residentassigned to my case. He was 27 years old,and he would meet with me two or three times a week.And of course, I had been there, what, three or four months at the time.And he asked to meet with the senior staff, and they agreed to meet with himbecause he was very well thought of in that place.They thought he had a really extraordinary future.
时间：13:02
zh-cn:他坚持说，“我比你们任何一个人都清楚这个病人，我们见过很多次面。你们只是偶尔探视他，看看他的病历。我相信他的病就是单纯的忧郁症，以及伴随的强迫性思考。你们当然知道进行前额叶切除的后果。任何情况都可能发生，从不太理想到不堪设想，非常非常糟糕，都有可能发生。如果手术非常成功，他将不再会强迫性思考，也许不再忧郁，但是他的情感会迟钝，他也许无法在做外科医生，也无法再成为他两个孩子的慈祥的父亲他的人生从此改变。如果是一般的手术结果，他会像“飞跃杜鹃窝”一样，终生痴呆恍惚。
en:And he dug in his heels and said,&quot;No. I know this man better than any of you. I have met with him over and over again.You&#39;ve just seen him from time to time. You&#39;ve read reports and so forth.I really honestly believe that the basic problem here is pure depression,and all of the obsessional thinking comes out of it.And you know, of course, what&#39;ll happen if you do a pre-frontal lobotomy.Any of the results along the spectrum,from pretty bad to terrible, terrible, terribleis going to happen. If he does the best he can,he will have no further obsessions,probably no depression, but his affect will be dulled,he will never go back to surgery,he will never be the loving father that he was to his two children,his life will be changed. If he has the usual result,he will end up like &#39;One Flew Over the Cuckoo&#39;s Nest.&#39;And you know about that, just essentially in a stupor the rest of his life.&quot;
时间：13:54
zh-cn:“难道我们不能尝试一下点击疗法吗？”你知道他们为什么同意了？他们不想和他争执。他们想，就试10次电疗吧。我们只是浪费点时间。反正也没有什么区别。“所以他们给我进行了10个疗程的电击疗法，第一个疗程通常是6-8次，现在还是6-8次—-于是他们给我帖导电片，麻醉，让我肌肉松弛。6次没有用，7次也没效果。8次还是没用，到了第9次，我感觉到—-我自己能够感觉到真是太好了—-我感觉到了变化。到了第10次，我感到了真的不同。
en:Well, he said, &quot;Can&#39;t we try a course of electroshock therapy?&quot;And you know why they agreed? They agreed to humor him.They just thought, &quot;Well, we&#39;ll give a course of 10.And so we&#39;ll lose a little time. Big deal. It doesn&#39;t make any difference.&quot;So they gave the course of 10,and the first — the usual course, incidentally, was six to eightand still is six to eight.Plugged me into the wires, put me to sleep, gave me the muscle relaxant.Six didn&#39;t work. Seven didn&#39;t work.Eight didn&#39;t work. At nine, I noticed —and it&#39;s wonderful that I could notice anything— I noticed a change. And at 10, I noticed a real change.
时间：14:34
zh-cn:然后他找到其他医生们，他们同意再做10次。这些医生中没有一个相信-我想他们中大概7，8位都不信-他们认为电击没有用。他们认为这只是暂时的改善。结果让大家惊讶的是到了第16，17次，我已经明显感觉到了变化。到了第18，19次，我已经可以安睡整晚了。第20次完成，我真的感觉我可以战胜忧郁症，我已经很坚强，可以靠意志力扫除强迫性思考，告别忧郁症。
en:And he went back to them, and they agreed to do another 10.Again, not a single one of them— I think there are about seven or eight of them —thought this would do any good. They thought this was a temporary change.But, lo and behold, by 16, by 17,there were demonstrable differences in the way I felt.By 18 and 19, I was sleeping through the night.And by 20, I had the sense, I really had the sensethat I could overcome this,that I was now strong enough that by an act of will,I could blow the obsessional thinking away.I could blow the depression away.
时间：15:09
zh-cn:我永远也不会忘记站在疗养院的厨房，1974年1月的星期天早上，我独自站在厨房，心想”我现在有康复的力量了。“好像在我头脑中紧紧纠结着的电路被拆除了我思路清晰。但我需要一个方法。需要提醒我自己以防我陷入强迫性思考在座的吉尔伯特和沙利文的粉丝们会记得歌剧『Ruddy Gore』和疯狂玛格丽特会记得她嫁给一个名叫德斯帕特爵士她在剧中差不多每5分钟都会发狂他对她说，“我们得有个密语把你拉回现实”亲爱的，我们就定“贝辛斯托克”（地名）”吧所以每次她有点发狂时他就说：“贝辛斯托克！” 她就回答说，“是的，贝辛斯托克。” 她就能好一段时间。
en:And I&#39;ve never forgotten — I never will forget— standing in the kitchen of the unit,it was a Sunday morning in January of 1974,standing in the kitchen by myself and thinking, &quot;I&#39;ve got the strength now to do this.&quot;It was as though those tightly coiled wires in my head had been disconnectedand I could think clearly.But I need a formula. I need some thing to say to myselfwhen I begin thinking obsessionally, obsessively.Well, the Gilbert and Sullivan fans in this roomwill remember &quot;Ruddigore,&quot; and they will remember Mad Margaret,and they will remember that she was marriedto a fellow named Sir Despard Murgatroyd.And she used to go nuts, every five minutes or so in the play,and he said to her, &quot;We must have a word to bring you back to reality,and the word, my dear, will be &#39;Basingstoke.&#39;&quot;So every time she got a little nuts,he would say, &quot;Basingstoke!&quot; And she would say,&quot;Basingstoke, it is.&quot; And she would be fine for a little while.
时间：16:14
zh-cn:好吧,你知道,我来自布朗克斯,我不能说&quot;贝辛斯托克&quot;我有更好的主意,非常简单就是:&quot;诶呀,去他的!&quot;(笑声)比贝辛斯托克好多了至少对于我来说,这真的管用,天呀.每次我开始强迫性思维时在历经20次电疗之后我都说&quot;哎呀,去他的!&quot;状况变得越来越好,三四个月后,我出院并加入外科医师团体我可以和其他人共事并不在康州纽黑文市,但很近.在那里我待了3年3年后,我回到了纽黑文市,当时我已经再婚了.我带着我爱人, 帮助我一起康复.我的孩子也回来和我们一起住生活.之后我们生了2个孩子我回到工作岗位,甚至比以前更好了.我回到大学开始写书.现在的生活很好至今已经近30年了.大约6年前,我停止做手术了成为全职作家,这个很多人知道.这是令人幸福和快乐的.
en:Well, you know, I&#39;m from the Bronx. I can&#39;t say &quot;Basingstoke.&quot;But I had something better. And it was very simple.It was, &quot;Ah, fuck it!&quot;(Laughter) Much better than &quot;Basingstoke,&quot;at least for me. And it worked — my God, it worked.Every time I would begin thinking obsessionally —again, once more, after 20 shock treatments— I would say, &quot;Ah, fuck it.&quot;And things got better and better,and within three or four months,I was discharged from that hospital, and I joined a group of surgeonswhere I could work with other people in the community,not in New Haven, but fairly close by.I stayed there for three years.At the end of three years, I went back to New Haven,had remarried by that time.I brought my wife with me, actually, to make sure I could get through this.My children came back to live with us.We had two more children after that.Resuscitated the career, even better than it had been before.Went right back into the universityand began to write books.Well, you know, it&#39;s been a wonderful life.It&#39;s been, as I said, close to 30 years.I stopped doing surgery about six years agoand became a full-time writer, as many people know.But it&#39;s been very exciting. It&#39;s been very happy.
时间：17:53
zh-cn:偶尔,我还会说:&quot;哎呀,去他的!&quot;偶尔,我还会郁闷并有点强迫性思维所以其实并没完全好,但电疗确实有效.为何我以前选择避而不谈这个,而现在却谈论它?你们其中有些人知道我的这些书一本讨论生死的书,关于人的身体和心灵的书,一本神秘想法萦绕于心的书,所有的都和我个人的经历有关系.读者可能会想————我已经收到上千封信函读者确实这么认为——从我书中描绘的个人生命史来看从我早期的生活看，我是个已经克服磨难的人。我遍尝苦难童年历经艰辛逆境没有挫败我，反而使我坚强我已经真正开悟，可以和大家分享生与死的思考， 也能谈谈神秘主意与人的心灵。
en:Every once in a while, I have to say, &quot;Ah, fuck it.&quot;Every once in a while, I get somewhat depressed and a little obsessional.So, I&#39;m not free of all of this. But it&#39;s worked. It&#39;s always worked.Why have I chosen, after never, ever talking about this, to talk about it now?Well, those of you who know some of these booksknow that one is about death and dying,one is about the human body and the human spirit,one is about the way mystical thoughts are constantly in our minds,and they have always to do with my own personal experiences.One might think reading these books— and I&#39;ve gotten thousands of letters about themby people who do think this —that based on my life&#39;s history as I&#39;ve portrayed in the books,my early life&#39;s history, I am someone who has overcome adversity.That I am someone who has drunk, drank, drunkof the bitter dregs of near-disaster in childhoodand emerged not just unscathed but strengthened.I really have it figured out, so that I can advise people aboutdeath and dying, so that I can talk about mysticism and the human spirit.
时间：19:15
zh-cn:我一直感到心虚，一直觉得自己有点像冒充的因为读者不知道我今天说的。很明显，纽黑文市有人知道，但一般来说，这不为人知。所以今天我来这里分享的原因之一是——坦白说，是自私地——解除我自己的心理负担，让大众知道写就这些书并非是无所忧虑的。更重要的是，我认为，在座的相当一拨人年纪不满30岁，当然，也有很多超过30岁的。对于30以下的人，在我看来，几乎你们所有人——你们所有人——要么在美好生涯尖峰要么正要步入美好生涯，任何事情都可能发生在你身上。世事难料。祸福无常。童年记忆可能回来纠缠你，你可能困顿茫然。我希望不要发生在你们身上，但少部分人可能会碰上。
en:And I&#39;ve always felt guilty about that.I&#39;ve always felt that somehow I was an impostorbecause my readers don&#39;t know what I have just told you.It&#39;s known by some people in New Haven, obviously,but it is not generally known.So one of the reasons that I have come here to talk about this todayis to — frankly, selfishly —unburden myself and let it be knownthat this is not an untroubled mind that has written all of these books.But more importantly, I think,is the fact that a very significant proportionof people in this audience are under 30,and there are many, of course, who are well over 30.For people under 30, and it looks to me like almost all of you— I would say all of you —are either on the cusp of a magnificent and exciting careeror right into a magnificent and exciting career:anything can happen to you. Things change.Accidents happen. Something from childhood comes back to haunt you.You can be thrown off the track.I hope it happens to none of you,but it will probably happen to a small percentage of you.
时间：20:33
zh-cn:即使不碰到这样的经历，也有人生逆境。假如连我这个希望渺茫，1970年时根本全然绝望的灵魂不可能康复至少那群资深精神科医师这么认为，如果我能熬过去相信我，任何人都能熬过来克服生活中的任何逆境。
en:To those to whom it doesn&#39;t happen, there will be adversities.If I, with the bleakness of spirit,with no spirit, that I had in the 1970sand no possibility of recovery,as far as that group of very experienced psychiatrists thought,if I can find my way back from this,believe me, anybody can find their way backfrom any adversity that exists in their lives.
时间：21:04
zh-cn:年长的人，已然有了生活可能没这么糟糕但也经历坎坷可能如我样失去所有，并从头再来， 一些事情似曾相熟。你可以康复。可以救赎，重获新生。每个社会都有重获新生的故事这是因为我们不仅是幻想重生和康复的可能性而且它确实发生，而且它多有所闻。
en:And for those who are older, who have lived throughperhaps not something as bad as this,but who have lived through difficult times,perhaps where they lost everything, as I did,and started out all over again, some of these things will seem very familiar.There is recovery.There is redemption. And there is resurrection.There are resurrection themes in every society that has ever been studied,and it is because not just only do we fantasizeabout the possibility of resurrection and recovery,but it actually happens. And it happens a lot.
时间：21:47
zh-cn:或许最经常听到的重生故事除了宗教事务外就是有关凤凰的古老神话每500年，它会从自己的灰烬中浴火重生展开新的生命更加美妙的新生命。理查，非常感谢。
en:Perhaps the most popular resurrection theme,outside of specifically religious ones,is the one about the phoenix, the ancient story of the phoenix,who, every 500 years, resurrects itself from its own ashesto go on to live a life that iseven more beautiful than it was before. Richard,thanks very much.
