时间： 0:11
zh-cn:大家好！我是一位建筑设计师。我是世界上唯一一位以纸为建筑材料的建筑师，就比如用这样的硬纸管。这是我第一个用纸管举办的展览。早在1986年，关于生态和环境问题的讨论还远远没有开始的时候我刚刚开始测试纸筒以便将其作为一种建筑结构使用测试新的建筑材料过程很复杂，但纸管比我想象的要坚实许多，而且进行防水处理也很容易，加上纸是工业材料，所以进行防火处理也是可能的，
en:Hi. I am an architect.I am the only architect in the worldmaking buildings out of paper like this cardboard tube,and this exhibition is the first one I didusing paper tubes.1986, much, much longer before people started talkingabout ecological issues and environmental issues,I just started testing the paper tubein order to use this as a building structure.It&#39;s very complicated to test the new material for the building,but this is much stronger than I expected,and also it&#39;s very easy to waterproof,and also, because it&#39;s industrial material,it&#39;s also possible to fireproof.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:接着在1990年，我搭建了这个临时的建筑结构。这是第一座纸制的临时性建筑。由330个直径为55厘米的纸筒组成，只有12个纸筒的直径有120厘米，或者说四英尺宽。从照片上可以看到，里面是厕所。万一卫生纸用完了，可以从墙上撕点下来。（笑声）所以说它很实用。
en:Then I built the temporary structure, 1990.This is the first temporary building made out of paper.There are 330 tubes, diameter 55 [centimeters],there are only 12 tubes with a diameterof 120 centimeters, or four feet, wide.As you see it in the photo, inside is the toilet.In case you&#39;re finished with toilet paper,you can tear off the inside of the wall. (Laughter)So it&#39;s very useful.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:2000年，德国举办了一次盛大的世博会。我受邀设计世博会日本馆。因为环境问题是这次世博会的主题，所以就选定了我来用纸筒建展览馆，（用的是）可反复利用的纸。我的设计其目标并不在于建成，我的目标是能把这个建筑拆掉。因为每个国家都建许多展览馆，但半年以后，剩下的是一大堆工业废品，因此，我所建的必须能够再利用或回收利用。世博会后，这座建筑就被回收利用了。这就是我设计的目标。
en:Year 2000, there was a big expo in Germany.I was asked to design the building,because the theme of the expo was environmental issues.So I was chosen to build the pavilion out of paper tubes,recyclable paper.My goal of the design is not when it&#39;s completed.My goal was when the building was demolished,because each country makes a lot of pavilionsbut after half a year, we create a lot of industrial waste,so my building has to be reused or recycled.After, the building was recycled.So that was the goal of my design.
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:然后，我很幸运地赢得（建筑设计）比赛进而取得了在法国梅茨城建造蓬皮杜中心新馆的机会。因为我当时很穷，本想在巴黎租一个办公室，却又租不起，所以我决定带我的学生到巴黎在蓬皮中心的楼顶搭建我们的办公室我们自己建。于是我们就带着纸筒和木质连接建成了这35米长的办公室。我们在那里待了六年，不用付任何房租
en:Then I was very lucky to win the competitionto build the second Pompidou Center in Francein the city of Metz.Because I was so poor,I wanted to rent an office in Paris,but I couldn&#39;t afford it,so I decided to bring my students to Paristo build our office on top of the Pompidou Center in Parisby ourselves.So we brought the paper tubes and the wooden jointsto complete the 35-meter-long office.We stayed there for six years without paying any rent.
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:（笑声）（掌声）
en:(Laughter) (Applause)
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:谢谢。当时我有个不小的问题。因为我们也是展会的一部分，即便是我的朋友要见我，他们也要买票才能见到我。问题就在这儿。
en:Thank you. I had one big problem.Because we were part of the exhibition,even if my friend wanted to see me, they had to buy a ticket to see me.That was the problem.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:然后我完成了梅兹蓬皮中心的建造。中心现已成为非常受欢迎的博物馆，我还为政府建造了一个庞大的纪念碑。
en:Then I completed the Pompidou Center in Metz.It&#39;s a very popular museum now,and I created a big monument for the government.
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:但我当时对自己的建筑师职业却感到很失望，因为我们并不是在帮助社会，为民众工作，而是为有权势的人工作，（比如）富人、政府、开发商。他们有钱有权。财富和权力是无形的。所以他们就通过雇用我们来建造宏伟的建筑来彰显他们的权力和财富。这就是我们的职业，甚至在历史上也是如此，直到现在我们还在做着同样的事。因此我对于我们并不是为社会大众服务而感到非常失落，即使有这么多的人因为自然灾害流离失所。但我必须要说的是罪魁祸首并不是自然灾害。打个比方，地震从来都不夺人性命，建筑倒塌才是致死原因。这是建筑师的责任。人们需要一个临时住房时，却没有搭建这些临时住房的建筑师因为我们都忙着为有权势的人工作。所以，我想，作为建筑师，我们也可以参与临时住房的重建。我们可以对其进行改善。因此我开始在灾难地区工作。
en:But then I was very disappointedat my profession as an architect,because we are not helping, we are not working for society,but we are working for privileged people,rich people, government, developers.They have money and power.Those are invisible.So they hire us to visualize their power and moneyby making monumental architecture.That is our profession, even historically it&#39;s the same,even now we are doing the same.So I was very disappointed that we are not working for society,even though there are so many peoplewho lost their houses by natural disasters.But I must say they are no longer natural disasters.For example, earthquakes never kill people,but collapse of the buildings kill people.That&#39;s the responsibility of architects.Then people need some temporary housing,but there are no architects working therebecause we are too busy working for privileged people.So I thought, even as architects,we can be involved in the reconstruction of temporary housing.We can make it better.So that is why I started working in disaster areas.
时间： 3:57
zh-cn:1994年非洲卢旺达发生了一场大灾难。胡图族和图西族两个部落互相残杀。两百多万人变为难民。但当我看到由联合国安排的帐篷和难民营时，我大吃一惊。帐篷都很破旧，雨季期间批着毛毯也十分的冷，联合国搭建的帐篷中，只提供了一张塑料垫子，而难民不得不去砍树，就像这样。但两百多万人去砍树，就演变成了大片的严重的森林采伐并造成了环境问题。正因如此，联合国就开始提供铝制的管子和棚屋。很贵，于是就被当地人拿去换钱了，然后又砍起树来。于是，我提出了利用这些再生纸管来改善现状的想法因为纸管便宜又坚实。但我的预算只有每个（帐篷）50美元。我们就搭建了50个用来监控测试其耐用性，抗湿和防白蚁能力等等。
en:1994, there was a big disaster in Rwanda, Africa.Two tribes, Hutu and Tutsi, fought each other.Over two million people became refugees.But I was so surprised to see the shelter, refugee camporganized by the U.N.They&#39;re so poor, and they are freezingwith blankets during the rainy season,In the shelters built by the U.N.,they were just providing a plastic sheet,and the refugees had to cut the trees, and just like this.But over two million people cut trees.It just became big, heavy deforestationand an environmental problem.That is why they started providing aluminum pipes, aluminum barracks.Very expensive, they throw them out for money,then cutting trees again.So I proposed my idea to improve the situationusing these recycled paper tubesbecause this is so cheap and also so strong,but my budget is only 50 U.S. dollars per unit.We built 50 units to do that as a monitoring testfor the durability and moisture and termites, so on.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:接着一年后，1995年，日本的神户，发生了一起大地震。将近七千人死亡，而整座城就像这长田区一样，都在地震后的大火中焚烧着。我发现有很多越南来的难民聚集在一个天主教教堂旁边，忍受着痛苦。整座教堂全部烧毁。
en:And then, year afterward, 1995, in Kobe, Japan,we had a big earthquake.Nearly 7,000 people were killed,and the city like this Nagata district,all the city was burned in a fire after the earthquake.And also I found out there&#39;s many Vietnamese refugeessuffering and gathering at a Catholic church —all the building was totally destroyed.
时间： 5:25
zh-cn:我就到那里去并向神父提出，“我们何不用纸筒重建教堂呢？”
en:So I went there and also I proposed to the priests,&quot;Why don&#39;t we rebuild the church out of paper tubes?&quot;
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:他叫道，“哦天哪，你疯了么？火灾刚过啊，你这是在说什么啊？“
en:And he said, &quot;Oh God, are you crazy?After a fire, what are you proposing?&quot;
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:所以他一直都不信任我，不过我没有放弃。我开始常去神户，接触了越南人的社区。他们就这样住在一个公园，在破烂的塑料帐篷中。于是我提议重建（住所）并筹集了资金。我为他们制作了一个纸筒帐篷。为了方便学生搭建与拆除，我使用啤酒箱作为地基。我请麒麟啤酒公司来提议，因为当时朝日啤酒生产的啤酒箱是红色的，与纸筒的颜色不相称。颜色协调是非常重要的。我还记得当时我们还期待着塑料啤酒箱中还有啤酒可以喝，但送来的啤酒箱是空的。（笑声）我记得大家都很失望。整个夏天我和我的学生，搭建了50个这样的帐篷。
en:So he never trusted me, but I didn&#39;t give up.I started commuting to Kobe,and I met the society of Vietnamese people.They were living like this with very poor plastic sheetsin the park.So I proposed to rebuild. I raised — did fundraising.I made a paper tube shelter for them,and in order to make it easy to be built by studentsand also easy to demolish,I used beer crates as a foundation.I asked the Kirin beer company to propose,because at that time, the Asahi beer companymade their plastic beer crates red,which doesn&#39;t go with the color of the paper tubes.The color coordination is very important.And also I still remember, we were expectingto have a beer inside the plastic beer crate,but it came empty. (Laughter)So I remember it was so disappointing.So during the summer with my students,we built over 50 units of the shelters.
时间： 6:29
zh-cn:最后神父终于相信了我，允许我重建教堂。他说，“只要你自己集资，带你的学生来建，就行。”
en:Finally the priest, finally he trusted me to rebuild.He said, &quot;As long as you collect money by yourself,bring your students to build, you can do it.&quot;
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:于是我们花了五个星期的时间重建了这座教堂。原先计划这座教堂会在那里保存三年，但因为人们的厚爱，这座教堂矗立在那里整整十年然后，台湾发生了一场大地震，我们提议捐出这座教堂，于是我们就拆解下纸管，我们把纸管送去那里由志愿者搭建。这座教堂就长驻台湾，成为了一个永久教堂直至今日。于是这座建筑就变成了一座永久的建筑。
en:So we spent five weeks rebuilding the church.It was meant to stay there for three years,but actually it stayed there 10 years because people loved it.Then, in Taiwan, they had a big earthquake,and we proposed to donate this church,so we dismantled them,we sent them over to be built by volunteer people.It stayed there in Taiwan as a permanent church even now.So this building became a permanent building.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:而后我就想，什么是永久的，而什么又是临时性的建筑？即使是一个用纸搭建的建筑，只要人们喜欢，它就可以变成永恒的。即使是一个混凝土建筑，如果它是为了赚钱而建的，那也可以在瞬间烟消云散。
en:Then I wonder, what is a permanent and what is a temporary building?Even a building made in papercan be permanent as long as people love it.Even a concrete building can be very temporaryif that is made to make money.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:1999年，土耳其发生了大地震。我去那里利用当地的材料搭建了一个避难所。2001年，在西印度，我也搭建了一个避难所。2004年，斯里兰卡发生苏门答腊地震和海啸之后，我重建了伊斯兰渔民的村庄。
en:In 1999, in Turkey, the big earthquake,I went there to use the local material to build a shelter.2001, in West India, I built also a shelter.In 2004, in Sri Lanka, after the Sumatra earthquakeand tsunami, I rebuilt Islamic fishermen&#39;s villages.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:2008年，中国的成都四川地区，将近七万人遇难，特别是很多学校被毁原因是政府部门与承包商之间的腐败行为。我受托重建这座临时教堂。我带着我的日本学生与中国学生合作，一个月之内，我们建成了九个教室，总面积超过500平米。即使在中国最近发生的地震之后，教堂依然在使用中。
en:And in 2008, in Chengdu, Sichuan area in China,nearly 70,000 people were killed,and also especially many of the schools were destroyedbecause of the corruption between the authority and the contractor.I was asked to rebuild the temporary church.I brought my Japanese students to work with the Chinese students.In one month, we completed nine classrooms,over 500 square meters.It&#39;s still used, even after the current earthquake in China.
时间： 8:07
zh-cn:2009年，意大利的拉奎拉也发生大地震。这是一张很有趣的照片：前任总理贝卢斯科尼与日本前前前前任首相麻生先生大家都知道我们的首相是年年换的。他们都很友善，资助了我的模型。我提议进行一次大重建，建一个临时的音乐大厅，因为拉奎拉以音乐著称,而且所有的音乐会厅都被毁了，所以音乐家都离开了。
en:In 2009, in Italy, L&#39;Aquila, also they had a big earthquake.And this is a very interesting photo:former Prime Minister Berlusconiand Japanese former former former former Prime Minister Mr. Aso —you know, because we have to change the prime minister ever year.And they are very kind, affording my model.I proposed a big rebuilding, a temporary music hall,because L&#39;Aquila is very famous for musicand all the concert halls were destroyed,so musicians were moving out.
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:所以我就向市长提出，我希望能重建这个临时音乐厅。他说：“只要你自己筹款建，你就可以建。”我当时很幸运。贝卢斯科尼先生组织了八国峰会，我们曾经的首相也来了，于是他们帮助我们筹到了资金，我从日本政府那里获得了五十万欧元来重建这座临时音乐厅。
en:So I proposed to the mayor,I&#39;d like to rebuild the temporary auditorium.He said, &quot;As long as you bring your money, you can do it.&quot;And I was very lucky.Mr. Berlusconi brought G8 summit,and our former prime minister came,so they helped us to collect money,and I got half a million euros from the Japanese governmentto rebuild this temporary auditorium.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:2010年，海地发生大地震，但是没有直达那里的飞机，就是我就去了邻国圣多明各，然后与那里当地的学生开6个小时的车到达海地用当地的纸筒搭建了50个避难所。
en:Year 2010 in Haiti, there was a big earthquake,but it&#39;s impossible to fly over,so I went to Santo Domingo, next-door country,to drive six hours to get to Haitiwith the local students in Santo Domingoto build 50 units of shelter out of local paper tubes.
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:这是两年前在日本，日本的北部所是发生的事。地震和海啸过后，人们要疏散到一个像体育馆的地方但可以看出，那里丝毫没有隐私。人们身心都在煎熬。于是我们就去那里建隔板。所有这些学生志愿者带着纸筒去了，就是一个很简单用纸管搭成的框架外加窗帘构成的避难所可是，设施部门的一些人不想我们做这件事，因为他们说这样一来控制这些人就变得更困难。但是，事实证明立隔板是有必要的。
en:This is what happened in Japan two years ago, in northern Japan.After the earthquake and tsunami,people had to be evacuated in a big room like a gymnasium.But look at this. There&#39;s no privacy.People suffer mentally and physically.So we went there to build partitionswith all the student volunteers with paper tubes,just a very simple shelter out of the tube frame and the curtain.However, some of the facility authoritydoesn&#39;t want us to do it, because, they said,simply, it&#39;s become more difficult to control them.But it&#39;s really necessary to do it.
时间： 9:57
zh-cn:他们没有足够的平地建设像这样的普通公用单层住房。看看这个，甚至公民政府的临时性住房构建也如此简陋。这样的拥挤、杂乱，没有储藏处，什么都没有，还漏水，于是我想， 我们必须建多层楼的房子（才能解决）没有土地（建新房），住着又非常不舒服（的问题）
en:They don&#39;t have enough flat area to buildstandard government single-story housing like this one.Look at this. Even civil government is doingsuch poor construction of the temporary housing,so dense and so messy because there is no storage, nothing, water is leaking,so I thought, we have to make multi-story buildingbecause there&#39;s no land and also it&#39;s not very comfortable.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:所以我就边搭建隔板，边向市长提议最后我在宫城县的女川村遇到一个非常好的市长。他要我在棒球场上搭建三层楼的住房。我利用了海运集装箱并且，学生们也帮助我们作了所有的建筑家具，把一切布置得很舒适花费也保持在政府预算之内房子的面积一模一样，但舒适许多。很多人都想永远待在这里。我听了十分高兴。
en:So I proposed to the mayor while I was making partitions.Finally I met a very nice mayor in Onagawa villagein Miyagi.He asked me to build three-story housing on baseball [fields].I used the shipping containerand also the students helped us to makeall the building furnitureto make them comfortable,within the budget of the governmentbut also the area of the house is exactly the same,but much more comfortable.Many of the people want to stay here forever.I was very happy to hear that.
时间：10:59
zh-cn:现在我在新西兰的克赖斯特彻奇工作在日本发生地震的大概20天前，他们也经历了一场大地震，很多日本学生遇难，这座城市最重要的大教堂，也是克赖斯特彻奇的标志完全毁灭。我受托来重建临时大教堂
en:Now I am working in New Zealand, Christchurch.About 20 days before the Japanese earthquake happened,also they had a big earthquake,and many Japanese students were also killed,and the most important cathedral of the city,the symbol of Christchurch, was totally destroyed.And I was asked to come to rebuild the temporary cathedral.
时间：11:20
zh-cn:现在还在建设中。我希望能继续创造为人们所喜爱的有纪念价值的建筑作品。
en:So this is under construction.And I&#39;d like to keep building monumentsthat are beloved by people.
时间：11:27
zh-cn:非常感谢大家。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:31
zh-cn:谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:Thank you. (Applause)
时间：11:34
zh-cn:非常感谢大家。（掌声）
en:Thank you very much. (Applause)
