时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是在台湾出生的。我成长于一个身边满是各式五金杂货铺的环境。我很喜欢去逛夜市。我喜爱夜市的热闹和能量，那儿色彩斑斓，灯火通明，有着各种玩具。每每光顾，我都能有意外惊喜，比如插着吸管当天线的西瓜啦，或者是有着红色莫霍克发型的狗宝宝啦。我在成长的阶段，就很喜欢拆解玩具，任何我在家里能找到的玩具，都拆。比如，我兄弟的玩具枪，他不在家我就把它给拆了。
en:I was born in Taiwan.I grew up surrounded bydifferent types of hardware stores,and I like going to night markets.I love the energy of the night markets,the colors, the lights, the toys,and all the unexpected things I find every time I go,things like watermelon with straw antennasor puppies with mohawks.When I was growing up, I liked taking toys apart,any kind of toys I&#39;d find around the house,like my brother&#39;s BB gun when he&#39;s not home.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:我也喜欢弄些东西可以让人去探索和玩的。在我早期的这些设备装置中，我会用到塑料布，塑料袋，和我在五金杂货铺里找得到的东西或者是自家附近有的东西。我会用到比如荧光笔，和水混合后，泵压经过塑料管子，创建起这些发光循环系统，人们可以在其中穿行并欣赏。我之所以喜欢这样的材料，是因为它们的外观，它们给人带来的感觉，也因为它们的成本不会太贵。
en:I also liked to make environmentsfor people to explore and play.In these early installations,I would take plastic sheets, plastic bags,and things I would find in the hardware storeor around the house.I would take things like highlighter pen,mix it with water, pump it through plastic tubing,creating these glowing circulatory systemsfor people to walk through and enjoy.I like these materials because of the way they look,the way they feel, and they&#39;re very affordable.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:我也喜欢做一些能够和身体的部位进行互动的装置。我把摄像头，LED灯和一堆电线绑到我的腰上，然后对着我的肚脐眼进行录像，用另一种角度看世界。（观众笑声）
en:I also liked to make devicesthat work with body parts.I would take camera LED lightsand a bungee cord and strap it on my waistand I would videotape my belly button,get a different perspective,and see what it does.(Laughter)
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:我也喜欢改装家电。这是一个自动夜灯。也许你们当中某些人家里也有。我把光线感应器切了下来，加上条延长线，用橡皮泥把它粘在电视机上，然后我让我的眼球活动出现在电视上，用我眼睛的黑色部分让光线感应器以为是晚上了，所以它就点亮灯泡。眼白和眼皮部分，让光线感应器当成了白天，它于是就把灯泡熄灭。
en:I also like to modify household appliances.This is an automatic night light.Some of you might have them at home.I would cut out the light sensor,add an extension line,and use modeling clay,stick it onto the television,and then I would videotape my eye,and using the dark part of my eyetricking the sensor into thinking it&#39;s night time,so you turn on the lightbulb.The white of the eye and the eyelidwill trick the sensor into thinking it&#39;s daytime,and it will shut off the light.
时间： 1:52
zh-cn:我曾想要搜集更多的不同型的眼睛图像，所以我就用自行车头盔，一些灯泡和电视机做了这个装置，以便于让其他人带上头盔好拍下他们的眼睛。这个装置也让我得以将其他人的眼睛图像符号化，这样我就有各式各样的眼睛图像可用在我的其他的作品上。这个作品有四只眼睛。每个眼睛控制一个不同的装置。屏幕上的这只眼睛指挥电视机转动。这只眼睛触发塑料管充气的动作。这只眼睛可以触发播放录像看到另外一个装置的制作过程。这两只眼睛能够触动装在瓶子里的荧光水。这些装置，其中很多在后来被展示于博物馆，双年展，三年展。世界各地都有。
en:I wanted to collect more different types of eyes,so I built this device using bicycle helmets,some lightbulbs and television sets.It would be easier for otherpeople to wear the helmetand record their eyes.This device allows me to symbolicallyextract other people&#39;s eyes,so I have a diversity of eyes to usefor my other sculptures.This sculpture has four eyes.Each eye is controlling a different device.This eye is turning itself around in a television.This eye is inflating a plastic tube.This eye is watching a videoof another piece being made.And these two eyes are activating glowing water.Many of these pieces are later on shownin museums, biennials, triennial exhibitionsaround the world.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:我喜欢科学和生物学。在2007年，我在史密森自然历史博物馆做一个奖学金研究，观察海洋里的发光生物体。我喜欢这些生物。我喜欢它们的样子，喜欢它们的触感。它们柔软，光滑。我也着迷于在它们的环境里，它们是怎样利用光的，或者是用来吸引配偶，或者是用来自保，或者是用来吸引猎物。从这项研究中，我得到很多启发和灵感并将其应用于我的作品。例如物体的运动，或是不同的光线变化。所以我在我的工作室里开始收集大量的各种类型的物料进行实验。试试这个，试试那个，看看用它们我可以造出什么样的东西。我用到了很多电脑上的散热风扇，把它们放在了一起看看会怎么样。这是一个8千平方英尺的装置，由许多不同部件组成，有的吊在天花板上，有的是在地上。从远处看，它们有点像外星生物，可是当你走近看，它们其实都是用些黑色的垃圾袋或是特百惠塑料盒子做成的。
en:I love science and biology.In 2007, I was doing a research fellowshipat the Smithsonian Natural History Museumlooking at bioluminous organisms in the oean.I love these creatures. I love theway they look, the way they feel.They&#39;re soft, they&#39;re slimy,and I was fascinated by the way they use lightin their environment,either to attract mates, for self-defense,or to attract food.This research inspired mywork in many different ways,things like movement or different light patterns.So I started gathering a lot ofdifferent types of material in my studioand just experimentingand trying this out, trying that out,and seeing what types of creatures I can come up with.I used a lot of computer cooling fansand just kind of put themtogether and see what happens.This is an 8,000-square-foot installationcomposed of many different creatures,some hanging from the ceilingand some resting on the floor.From afar, they look alien-like,but when you look closer,they&#39;re all made out of black garbage bagsor Tupperware containers.
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:我在这里想和大家分享的就是:平凡日常的东西也可以变身成为魔幻神奇的事物。（观众掌声）谢谢大家。（观众掌声）
en:I&#39;d like to share with you how ordinary thingscan become something magical and wondrous.(Applause)Thank you.(Applause)
