时间： 0:14
zh-cn:嗯~这是我爷爷，萨勒曼·肖肯，他出生于一个贫穷的,没有文化的家庭家里有六个孩子要养活，在他14 岁那年，他被强迫辍学，为了能帮助家里挣点吃的。从那以后，他再也没有回去上学。不过，他却建立了一个辉煌的百货公司帝国。萨勒曼是个极端的完美主义者，他的每一个商店都像包豪斯建筑上的一颗宝石。他也是个根本意义上的自学成才者和所有事情一样，他做的极为出色。他总是在身边安排一位随行人员，他们都是年轻、 默默无闻的学者，像马丁 · 布血塞 Agnon 和卡夫卡，他给他们每一个人都支付月薪使得他们可以安心写作
en:So, this is my grandfather,Salman Schocken,who was born into a poor and uneducated familywith six children to feed,and when he was 14 years old, he was forced todrop out of school in order to help put bread on the table.He never went back to school.Instead, he went on to build a glittering empireof department stores.Salman was the consummate perfectionist,and every one of his stores was a jewelof Bauhaus architecture.He was also the ultimate self-learner,and like everything else, he did it in grand style.He surrounded himself with an entourageof young, unknown scholars like Martin Buberand Shai Agnon and Franz Kafka,and he paid each one of them a monthly salaryso that they could write in peace.
时间： 1:13
zh-cn:不过，在 30 年代后期，萨勒曼预期到了要发生的事情他与他的家人一起逃离了德国，把其他所有东西都留下了他的百货公司被没收他穷尽余生去不懈的追求艺术与文化。这位高中辍学生在82岁时过世，这样一位令人钦佩的智者，耶路撒冷希伯来大学的创始人和第一位首席执行官，同时也是肯出版社的创始人，肯出版社是个广受好评的影印刊物，后来被兰登书屋收购。这就是自学的力量。
en:And yet, in the late &#39;30s, Salman saw what&#39;s coming.He fled Germany, together with his family,leaving everything else behind.His department stores confiscated,he spent the rest of his life in a relentless pursuitof art and culture.This high school dropoutdied at the age of 82,a formidable intellectual, cofounder and first CEOof the Hebrew University of Jerusalem,and founder of Schocken Books,an acclaimed imprint that was later acquiredby Random House.Such is the power of self-study.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:这是我的父母他们也没有享受到大学教育的特权他们在忙于建设家庭和国家。然而，就像萨勒曼、 他们是终身的顽强的自学主义者，我们的家里堆积了数以千计的书籍、 记载和艺术品。我很清楚地记得我父亲告诉我直到社区里的每个人都买了电视，我们才去买台收音机。（笑声）
en:And these are my parents.They too did not enjoy the privilege of college education.They were too busy building a family and a country.And yet, just like Salman, they were lifelong,tenacious self-learners, and our home was stackedwith thousands of books, records and artwork.I remember quite vividly my father telling methat when everyone in the neighborhood will have a TV set,then we&#39;ll buy a normal F.M. radio. (Laughter)
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:这就是我，我想说拿着我的第一个算盘但实际上是拿着的是我父亲认为的iPad的充分替代品。（笑声）所以我在家里学到的一件事是这样一个概念教育工作者不一定必须要教。相反，他们可以提供环境和资源来梳理出你与生俱来的靠自己学习的能力自我学习，自我发现，自我培养。这些都是伟大教育的优点。
en:And that&#39;s me,I was going to say holding my first abacus,but actually holding what my father would consideran ample substitute to an iPad. (Laughter)So one thing that I took from home is this notionthat educators don&#39;t necessarily have to teach.Instead, they can provide an environment and resourcesthat tease out your natural ability to learn on your own.Self-study, self-exploration, self-empowerment:these are the virtues of a great education.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:所以我想与大家分享一个关于自学的故事，自我发展的计算机科学课程这是我与我的才华横溢的同事Noam Nisan,共同建立的就像你从照片上所见，我和诺姆都对基本原则有着早期迷恋多年来，随着我们的学识在科学和技术方面变得更加精深，这种对于基础知识的早期敬畏进一步加强了。所以不足为奇，大约12年前，当诺姆和我已经是计算机科学的教授时，我们同样对相同的现象感到沮丧。因为计算机变得越来越复杂，我们的学生正在失去树木森林而事实上，这几乎不可能与机器心灵交通，如果你（只是）去与PC或者Mac的黑盒子互动的话,这些黑盒子被很多层的密闭的专利软件包裹。所以我和诺姆有了这一观点，如果我们想要我们的学生了解计算机的工作方式并了解他们的骨头里的精髓，那么也许最好的实现方式就是是让他们建立一个完整的、 工作的，广泛用途的、 有用的计算机以及硬件和软件，从基本做起，从基本原则开始。
en:So I&#39;d like to share with you a story about a self-study,self-empowering computer science coursethat I built, together with my brilliant colleague Noam Nisan.As you can see from the pictures, both Noam and Ihad an early fascination with first principles,and over the years, as our knowledge ofscience and technology became more sophisticated,this early awe with the basicshas only intensified.So it&#39;s not surprising that, about 12 years ago, whenNoam and I were already computer science professors,we were equally frustrated by the same phenomenon.As computers became increasingly more complex,our students were losing the forest for the trees,and indeed, it is impossible to connectwith the soul of the machine if you interactwith a black box P.C. or a Mac which is shroudedby numerous layers of closed, proprietary software.So Noam and I had this insight that if we want our studentsto understand how computers work,and understand it in the marrow of their bones,then perhaps the best way to go about itis to have them build a complete, working,general-purpose, useful computer, hardware and software,from the ground up, from first principles.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:现在，我们必须找到个出发点，所以诺姆和我决定，打个比方说，将我们的大教堂在最可能的建造区域打基。这也被称为 NAND。这就是个简单的逻辑门有四个输入输出状态。所以我们现在这样开始我们的旅程，告诉我们的学生上帝给了我们 NAND — — （笑声） — —并告诉我们要制造一台计算机，当我们问怎么造的时候，上帝说：&quot;一步一步来&quot;。然后，根据他的建议，我们由这个低端的,简陋的逻辑门开始，我们带领我们的学生完成了一些列复杂的项目，逐步建立了一个芯片装置一个硬件平台， 一个汇编程序、一个虚拟机，一个基本操作系统和一个编译器为了简洁，我们把像 Java之类的语言称为&quot;Jack。&quot;学生们用这样的方式庆祝这一段旅程的结束通过Jack制作了各种各样的好玩游戏像乒乓球、 贪吃蛇和俄罗斯方块。你可以想象玩起来的巨大喜悦一个你用Jack编写的俄罗斯方块游戏然后在你编写的编译器中编译成机器语言然后在你用不过几千个逻辑门开始制造的机器上运行并观看结果。这是一场巨大的个人胜利从第一的原则一路走到一个极好地复杂的有用的系统。
en:Now, we had to start somewhere, and so Noam and Idecided to base our cathedral, so to speak,on the simplest possible building block,which is something called NAND.It is nothing more than a trivial logic gatewith four input-output states.So we now start this journey by telling our studentsthat God gave us NAND — (Laughter) —and told us to build a computer, and when we asked how,God said, &quot;One step at a time.&quot;And then, following this advice, we startwith this lowly, humble NAND gate,and we walk our students through an elaborate sequenceof projects in which they gradually build a chip set,a hardware platform, an assembler, a virtual machine,a basic operating system and a compilerfor a simple, Java-like language that we call &quot;JACK.&quot;The students celebrate the end of this tour de forceby using JACK to write all sorts of cool gameslike Pong, Snake and Tetris.You can imagine the tremendous joy of playingwith a Tetris game that you wrote in JACKand then compiled into machine language in a compilerthat you wrote also, and then seeing the resultrunning on a machine that you built startingwith nothing more than a few thousand NAND gates.It&#39;s a tremendous personal triumph of goingfrom first principles all the way to a fantastically complexand useful system.
时间： 5:55
zh-cn:诺姆和我用五年完成了它的改善，同时创建了工具和基础设施使得学生们可以在一学期内完成制造这是帮助我们实现这一切的伟大团队而诀窍是将计算机结构分解为许多独立的模块，每一个都可以被独自说明制造和单元测设，而与项目的其他部分完全分离。从第一天起，我和诺姆就决定让所有这些制造模块作为公共资源在网上免费公开。所以芯片规格、 应用程序界面、 项目说明软件工具、 硬件模拟器、 CPU 模拟器成堆的数以百计的幻灯片，讲座 — —我们把所有东西都放到了网上并邀请全世界（的人）来访，带走他们想要的东西,随便他们对此使用。
en:Noam and I worked five years to facilitatethis ascent and to create the tools and infrastructurethat will enable students to build it in one semester.And this is the great team that helped us make it happen.The trick was to decompose the computer&#39;s constructioninto numerous stand-alone modules,each of which could be individually specified,built and unit-tested in isolation from the rest of the project.And from day one, Noam and I decided to putall these building blocks freely available in open sourceon the Web.So chip specifications, APIs, project descriptions,software tools, hardware simulators, CPU emulators,stacks of hundreds of slides, lectures —we laid out everything on the Weband invited the world to come over,take whatever they need,and do whatever they want with it.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:接着奇妙的事情发生了。全世界的人都来了。不久，成千上万的人在制造我们的机器。同时NAND2Tetris 成了第一批大规模的、 开放的、 在线课程之一虽然 7 年前我们还不知道我们在做的东西被叫做MOOCs。我们只是观察到自发课程就像自发性地大量生产我们的材料。例如，Pramode C.E来自印度喀拉拉邦的一名工程师已经组织了多批自学者在他的良好指导下制造我们的计算机同时另一名工程师，来自孟买的帕尔克 · 沙阿奖我们的项目分类定价成更小的更加易处理的比特，他现在服务于他的开创性的do-it-yourself计算机科学项目。
en:And then something fascinating happened.The world came.And in short order, thousands of peoplewere building our machine.And NAND2Tetris became one of the firstmassive, open, online courses,although seven years ago we had no idea that whatwe were doing is called MOOCs.We just observed how self-organized courseswere kind of spontaneously spawningout of our materials.For example, Pramode C.E.,an engineer from Kerala, India,has organized groups of self-learnerswho build our computer under his good guidance.And Parag Shah, another engineer, from Mumbai,has unbundled our projects into smaller,more manageable bites that he now servesin his pioneering do-it-yourself computer science program.
时间： 7:47
zh-cn:这些被课程所吸引而来的人通常有一种黑客的心态。他们想要弄明白计算机是如果工作的同时他们想在群体中来完成这个过程，像这个在华盛顿特区的黑客俱乐部用我们的材料来提供社区课程。而因为这些材料是广泛许可并且是开放的源代码，不同的人会把它们带向非常不同的和不可预知的方向。例如，余方敏，来自广州市已使用 FPGA 技术来构造我们的计算机并向别人展示如何做出一样的通过使用视频剪辑，同时本 · 杜克开发了一个非常漂亮的计算机游戏展开了我们CPU的体系结构，Ben开发了个很复杂的3D 迷宫通过使用Minecraft 3D 模拟器引擎。Minecraft社区因为这个项目而很生气同时 Ben 立刻成为了媒体名人。
en:The people who are attracted to these coursestypically have a hacker mentality.They want to figure out how things work,and they want to do it in groups,like this hackers club in Washington, D.C.,that uses our materials to offer community courses.And because these materials are widely availableand open-source, different people take themto very different and unpredictable directions.For example, Yu Fangmin, from Guangzhou,has used FPGA technologyto build our computer and show others how to do the sameusing a video clip, and Ben Craddock developeda very nice computer game that unfoldsinside our CPU architecture, which is quite a complex3D maze that Ben developedusing the Minecraft 3D simulator engine.The Minecraft community went bananas over this project,and Ben became an instant media celebrity.
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:事实上，对于很大一批人参加这次NAND2Tetris的朝圣之旅，如果你也愿意的话，已经成为了一段改变人生的经历例如，像Dan Rounds，从事音乐和数学专业，来自密歇根州的东兰。几个星期前，Dan张贴了一张胜利的海报在我们的网站，我想读给你们听下。这就是丹说的话：
en:And indeed, for quite a few people,taking this NAND2Tetris pilgrimage, if you will,has turned into a life-changing experience.For example, take Dan Rounds, who is a musicand math major from East Lansing, Michigan.A few weeks ago, Dan posted a victorious poston our website, and I&#39;d like to read it to you.So here&#39;s what Dan said.
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:&quot;我参加这个课程因为（我）了解计算机对我来说很重要，就像识字和算术我完成了（这个课程）。我从没像这么用功过。从未遇到这么大的挑战。但鉴于我觉得自己现在所能做的事情，（如果再给我次选择）我一定会再次选择去做。对于每个考虑（参加） NAND2Tetris的人，这是一个艰难的旅程，但你会被深刻地改变。&quot;
en:&quot;I did the coursework because understanding computersis important to me, just like literacy and numeracy,and I made it through. I never worked harder on anything,never been challenged to this degree.But given what I now feel capable of doing,I would certainly do it again.To anyone considering NAND2Tetris,it&#39;s a tough journey, but you&#39;ll be profoundly changed.&quot;
时间： 9:34
zh-cn:所以Dan证明了许多自学者他们在线下完成了这一课程，靠着他们自己的牵引力靠着他们自己的主动性，这是相当令人吃惊的，因为这些人不能不在意成绩(分数)他们这样做因为只有一个动机。他们有极大的学习热情。
en:So Dan demonstrates the many self-learnerswho take this course off the Web, on their own traction,on their own initiative, and it&#39;s quite amazing becausethese people cannot care less aboutgrades.They are doing it because of one motivation only.They have a tremendous passion to learn.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:因为有这一点在脑中，我想对传统大学的成绩评定说几句。我讨厌它。我们着迷于分数因为我们沉迷于数据，但是评分标准带走了失败中所有的快乐教育的很大一个部分都是关于失败的。丘吉尔说，勇气，是从一个战败走到另一个战败，而却不丧失热情的能力。（笑声）同时Joyce说错误是发现的门户。但是我们已经无法容忍错误同时我们崇尚等级。所以我们收集你的B+和A-同时我们将他们聚集位一个数字，例如3，4把他们印在你的额头这就概括成了你嗯，在我看来，我们这种蠢事做的够久了同时分数变得有辱人格。
en:And with that in mind,I&#39;d like to say a few words about traditional college grading.I&#39;m sick of it.We are obsessed with gradesbecause we are obsessed with data,and yet grading takes away all the fun from failing,and a huge part of educationis about failing.Courage, according to Churchill,is the ability to go from one defeat to anotherwithout losing enthusiasm. (Laughter)And [Joyce] said that mistakesare the portals of discovery.And yet we don&#39;t tolerate mistakes,and we worship grades.So we collect your B pluses and your A minusesand we aggregate them into a number like 3.4,which is stamped on your foreheadand sums up who you are.Well, in my opinion, we went too far with this nonsense,and grading became degrading.
时间：10:57
zh-cn:所以对于这个，我想说几句关于（体系）升级与你分享下一些我的现行项目这与前面的那个项目不一样但他共享了一样的特性关于自学，从动手中学习，自我发现和社区建设。同时该项目涉及从幼儿园到12年级的数学教育从早期的基本数学开始我们在平板电脑上实现了它，因为我们相信数学，像其他东西一样，应该被用手教授
en:So with that, I&#39;d like to say a few words about upgrading,and share with you a glimpse from my current project,which is different from the previous one,but it shares exactly the same characteristicsof self-learning, learning by doing,self-exploration and community-building,and this project deals with K-12 math education,beginning with early age math,and we do it on tablets because we believe thatmath, like anything else, should be taught hands on.
时间：11:33
zh-cn:所以这里我们做的。根本来讲，我们开发了许多的手机应用程序，每一个解释一个特定的数学概念。所以例如，我们选择面积。当你涉及到一个概念，如面积-嗯，我们也提供了一些列工具，孩子被邀请来参加试验,来学习因此，如果面积是使我们感兴趣的，那么有一件很自然的事情就是对面积铺砖用特定的形状，同时简单地计算需要多少瓷砖来完全覆盖面积这个小练习给了你第一次对于面积概念的领悟。
en:So here&#39;s what we do. Basically, we developednumerous mobile apps, every one of them explaininga particular concept in math.So for example, let&#39;s take area.When you deal with a concept like area —well, we also provide a set of tools that the childis invited to experiment with in order to learn.So if area is what interests us, then one thingwhich is natural to do is to tile the areaof this particular shape and simply counthow many tiles it takes to cover it completely.And this little exercise here gives you a firstgood insight of the notion of area.
时间：12:17
zh-cn:继续向前，这个图形的面积是多少？嗯，如果你尝试平铺他，貌似不行，不是吗？所以，您可以进行试验利用这里的这些不同工具进行引导性反复试验，有些时候，你会发现这一件事你可以做几个合法转换像如下这样。您可以分隔图形您可以重新排列部分，您可以将它们的粘合然后进行平铺的过程就像我们之前的那样。（掌声）现在这个特定的转换没有改变原始图形的面积，因此，一个六岁（孩子）玩这个程序刚发现一个聪明的算法来计算任何给定的平行四边形的面积。
en:Moving along, what about the area of this figure?Well, if you try to tile it, it doesn&#39;t work too well, does it.So instead, you can experimentwith these different tools here by some processof guided trial and error,and at some point you will discover that one thingthat you can do among several legitimate transformationsis the following one. You can cut the figure,you can rearrange the parts, you can glue themand then proceed to tile just like we did before.(Applause)Now this particular transformationdid not change the area of the original figure,so a six-year-old who plays with thishas just discovered a clever algorithmto compute the area of any given parallelogram.
时间：13:08
zh-cn:顺便说下，我们不想代替教师我们相信教师应被准许，而不是替代。
en:We don&#39;t replace teachers, by the way.We believe that teachers should be empowered, not replaced.
时间：13:13
zh-cn:继续向前，三角形的面积怎么办呢？所以在一些引导性反复试验后儿童将会发现，有或没有帮助，他或她可以复制原始图然后将复制出的图形，转置它，将其粘附到原始图形，然后继续 [进行] 我们之前做的：剪切、 重新排列、 粘贴 — — 哦 — — 粘贴和粘合，和铺砖。现在这种转型将原始面积扩大了一倍因此我们已经学习到三角形的面积等于此矩形的面积除以二。但是我们是通过自我发掘发现的。
en:Moving along, what about the area of a triangle?So after some guided trial and error,the child will discover, with or without help,that he or she can duplicate the original figureand then take the result, transpose it,glue it to the original and then proceed [with] what we did before:cut, rearrange, paste — oops— paste and glue,and tile.Now this transformation has doubled the areaof the original figure, and therefore we have just learnedthat the area of the triangle equals the area of this rectangledivided by two.But we discovered it by self-exploration.
时间：14:01
zh-cn:所以，除了学习一些有用的几何知识外儿童接触了一些相当复杂的科学方法，像减少这是一种将复杂问题简单化的艺术或泛化，这是任何科学学科的核心或在某些转化下有些属性是不变的。所有这些东西都是一个很小的孩子可以通过这样的移动程序所学会的。所以目前我们就在做如下的事情：首先，我们将从幼儿园到12年级的数学课程分解到许多个此类的应用程序。因为我们不能靠自己来完成，我们开发了一个非常富有想象力的开发者工具任何作者,任何父目，或着说任何人只要对数学教育感兴趣可以使用此开发工具来开发类似的平板电脑软件而无需编程。最后，我们组合成一个适应性生态系统它将匹配不同的学习者根据他们不断演变的学习风格，匹配不同的应用程序。
en:So, in addition to learning some useful geometry,the child has been exposed to some pretty sophisticatedscience strategies, like reduction,which is the art oftransforming a complex problem into a simple one,or generalization, which is at the heartof any scientific discipline,or the fact that some properties are invariantunder some transformations.And all this is something that a very young childcan pick up using such mobile apps.So presently, we are doing the following:First of all, we are decomposing the K-12 math curriculuminto numerous such apps.And because we cannot do it on our own,we&#39;ve developed a very fancy authoring toolthat any author, any parent or actually anyonewho has an interest in math education,can use this authoring tool to develop similar appson tablets without programming.And finally, we are putting together an adaptive ecosystemthat will match different learnerswith different apps according to their evolving learning style.
时间：15:19
zh-cn:这一项目背后的驱动力是我的同事 Shmulik London,你瞧，就像萨勒曼在 90 年前做的那样，诀窍是让你身边围满杰出的人，因为归根到底，都是关于人。几年前，我走在特拉维夫我看到这个墙上的涂鸦我觉得它是如此引人注目现在我把他宣扬给我的学生同时我想试着宣传给你们。现在，我不知道有多少人熟悉这个术语&quot;君子&quot;。它基本的意思是做正确事的人。紧接着，这个涂鸦的说是，&quot;高科技 君子科技。最重要的事情就是君子。&quot;（笑声）谢谢。（掌声）（掌声）
en:The driving force behind this projectis my colleague Shmulik London,and, you see, just likeSalman did about 90 years ago,the trick is to surround yourself with brilliant people,because at the end,it&#39;s all about people.And a few years ago, I was walking in Tel Avivand I saw this graffiti on a wall,and I found it so compellingthat by now I preach it to my students,and I&#39;d like to try to preach it to you.Now, I don&#39;t know how many people here are familiarwith the term &quot;mensch.&quot;It basically means to be humanand to do the right thing.And with that, what this graffiti says is,&quot;High-tech schmigh-tech.The most important thing is to be a mensch.&quot; (Laughter)Thank you. (Applause)(Applause)
