时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今天我谦恭地站在这里希望能与你们分享我过去六年在服务和教育领域的经验我并不是一个训练有素的学者，也不是一个资深的社会工作者。我进入企业界26年，努力让组织盈利然而在2003年我从我的案桌上创建了Parikrma人类基金会。
en:I&#39;m standing in front of you todayin all humility,wanting to share with youmy journey of the last six yearsin the field of serviceand education.And I&#39;m not a trained academic.Neither am I a veteran social worker.I was 26 years in the corporate world,trying to make organizations profitable.And then in 2003I started Parikrma Humanity Foundationfrom my kitchen table.
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:我们做的第一件事就是走访贫民区。大家知道，班加罗尔有两百万人口居住在800个贫民区里我们不可能走遍所有的贫民区但是我们还是尽可能地覆盖更多的区域。我们穿越这些贫民区找到那些从来不上学的小孩子的家我们去和那些父母交谈尝试说服他们送孩子去上学我们和孩子们一起玩耍，回到家时非常劳累精疲力尽的时候，眼前浮现的却是一张张欢快的脸，一双双明亮的眼然后我们才睡觉
en:The first thing that we did was walk through the slums.You know, by the way, there are two million peoplein Bangalore, who live in 800 slums.We couldn&#39;t go to all the slums,but we tried to cover as much as we could.We walked through these slums,identified houses where children would never go to school.We talked to the parents,tried to convince them about sending their children to school.We played with the children,and came back home really tired,exhausted, but with imagesof bright faces, twinkling eyes,and went to sleep.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:我们一开始很兴奋地工作但是马上，这些数字吓到了我们2亿个从4岁14岁的孩子应该去学校但是没有去1亿个上学的孩子却不懂地如何阅读1亿2千5百万个孩子不懂基础数学我们还听说2千5百亿印度卢比被拨用于政府教育，而其中90%用于支付教师和管理者的薪水然而，印度几乎拥有世界上最高的教师缺勤率每四个教师中会有一个在整个学年中不去学校
en:We were all excited to start,but the numbers hit us then:200 million childrenbetween four to 14 thatshould be going to school, but do not;100 million childrenwho go to school but cannot read;125 million who cannot do basic maths.We also heard that 250 billion Indian rupeeswas dedicated for government schooling.Ninety percent of it was spent on teachers&#39; salaryand administrators&#39; salary.And yet, India has nearlythe highest teacher absenteeismin the world,with one out of four teachersnot going to school at all the entire academic year.
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:很显然，这些数据都是令人震惊并不胜枚举的，并且我们不断的被质问“你们什么时候开始？你们要开办多少所学校？你们接受多少孩子？你们如何控制规模？你们如何开分校？”很难不被吓到但是我们总是坚持说：“我们不是在玩数字游戏。”我们希望每次接受一个孩子带领这个孩子度过教育期送上大学让他们为更好的生活，高价值的工作做好准备
en:Those numbers were absolutely mind-boggling,overwhelming, and we were constantly asked,&quot;When will you start? How many schools will you start?How many children will you get?How are you going to scale?How are you going to replicate?&quot;It was very difficult not to get scared, not to get daunted.But we dug our heelsand said, &quot;We&#39;re not in the number game.We want to take one child at a timeand take the child right through school,sent to college,and get them prepared for better living,a high value job.&quot;
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:所以，我们创办了Parikrma第一所Parikrma学校在一个贫民区成立那里有7万人口生活在贫困线以下我们开始的第一所学校是在贫民窟里面的一座建筑的屋顶上，那是一所2层高的建筑，也是贫民区里面唯一的2层建筑而且那个天台没有任何天花板，只有半张锡板那是我们的第一所学校，165个孩子。印度的学年从6月开始。而6月经常下雨，很多时候我们所有人就拥挤在锡板下面等待雨停。天呐，那是怎样的一项团结的活动我们所有人那时在那个屋檐下，今天依然在一起。然后就是第二所学校，第三所学校，第四所学校，以及一个专科学校。6年以后的现在我们拥有四所学校，一个专科学校，1千1百个来自28个贫民区和4个孤儿院的孩子（掌声）
en:So, we started Parikrma.The first Parikrma schoolstarted in a slumwhere there were 70,000 peopleliving below the poverty line.Our first school wason a rooftop of a building inside the slums,a second story building, the only second story buildinginside the slums.And that rooftop did not haveany ceiling, only half a tin sheet.That was our first school. One hundred sixty-five children.Indian academic year begins in June.So, June it rains, so many a timesall of us would be huddled under the tin roof,waiting for the rain to stop.My God! What a bonding exercise that was.And all of usthat were under that roof are still here together today.Then came the second school,the third school, the fourth schooland a junior college.In six years now,we have four schools, one junior college,1,100 childrencoming from 28 slumsand four orphanages.(Applause)
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:我们梦想非常简单，就是让每个孩子都能准备好去生活，去接受教育同时能平静，知足地生活在这个充满冲突的混乱的全球化世界里。现在，当大家谈论到全球化我们不得不讨论英语。所以我们所有的学校都是英语授课的。但是我们知道这里有个荒诞的说法那些从贫民区出来的孩子不能流利的说英语。他们家庭里没有人会说英语。他们的同龄人也没有人会说英语。但这个说法有多荒谬
en:Our dream is very simple:to send each of these kids, get them preparedto be educatedbut also to live peacefully,contented in this conflict-riddenchaotic globalized world.Now, when you talk globalyou have to talk English.And so all our schoolsare English medium schools.But they know there is this myththat children from the slumscannot speak English well.No one in their family has spoken English.No one in their generation has spoken English.But how wrong it is.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:视频：女孩：我喜欢探险小说，那是我最喜欢的类型之一我喜欢阿尔弗莱德·希区柯克和 [不清楚]和哈迪男孩。这三个很类似，尽管他们是在不同的背景里一个像是有魔力的，而其他两个像是侦查我喜欢这些书事因为他们都有一些不同的特质这些书里面用的词汇和写作方法，风格。我指的是，就像有一次我随意挑选了一本书我就爱不释手，直到我读完整本书。哪怕读完要花费我四个半小时左右或者三个半小时左右的时间，我也愿意去读。
en:Girl: I like adventurous books, and some of my favoritesare Alfred Hitchcock and [unclear]and Hardy Boys.Although they are likein different contexts,one is magical, the other two are like investigation,I like those books becausethey have something special in them.The vocabulary used in those booksand the style of writing.I mean like once I pick up one bookI cannot put it down until I finish the whole book.Even if it takes me four and a half hours,or three and half hours to finish my book, I do it.
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:男孩：我用Google调查，然后我获得了信息世界上最快的车我喜欢杜卡迪 ZZ143，因为它是最快的世界上最快的自行车。我还喜欢帕萨特 220 GTSI因为它是印度最快的自行车
en:Boy: I did good research and I got the information[on the] world&#39;s fastest cars.I like Ducati ZZ143,because it is the fastest,the world&#39;s fastest bike,and I like Pulsar 220 DTSIbecause it is India&#39;s fastest bike. (Laughter)
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:好吧，你们看到的这个女孩，她的父亲在街头卖花。而这个小男孩已经来坚持5年来上学了。但是，不觉得奇怪吗，全世界的小男孩都喜欢快的自行车？他从来没有见过一辆自行车，当然也从没骑过。但是他通过Google搜索做了一些研究。要知道，当我们开始我们的英语授课的学校时我们也决定要引入尽可能最好的课程，就是ICSE（全印度印度中等教育证书）课程又一次，很多人嘲笑我大家说：“你疯了么给这些学生选择那么难的课程？他们永远都不可能掌握。”不仅我们的孩子掌握的很好，他们甚至非常优秀。大家应该过去看看我们的孩子做得多么好。
en:Shukla Bose: Well, that girl that you saw,her father sells flowers on the roadside.And this little boy has been coming to school for five years.But isn&#39;t it strange that little boys all over the worldlove fast bikes? (Laughter)He hasn&#39;t seen one, he hasn&#39;t ridden one, of course,but he has done a lot of research through Google search.You know, when we started with our English medium schoolswe also decided to adoptthe best curriculum possible,the ICSE curriculum.And again, there were people who laughed at meand said, &quot;Don&#39;t be crazychoosing such a tough curriculum for these students.They&#39;ll never be able to cope.&quot;Not only do our children cope very well,but they excel in it.You should just come across to seehow well our children do.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:这里同样有一个假象从贫民区来的家长们对于让他们的孩子上学不感兴趣，他们更情缘让他们去工作。这绝对是废话全世界的父母都希望他们的孩子能拥有比自己更好的生活。但是他们需要相信的是，改变是存在的。
en:There is also this myth thatparents from the slumsare not interested in their children going to school;they&#39;d much rather put them to work.That&#39;s absolute hogwash.All parents all over the worldwant their children to lead a better life than themselves,but they need to believe that change is possible.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:视频：（印地语）
en:Video: (Hindi)
时间： 7:54
zh-cn:Shukla Bose：我们在所有的家长会中有80%的出勤率。有时候，甚至是100%，这比很多贵族学校都要高的多了。父亲们已经开始出席了。这是非常有意思的。当我们开办学校的时候那些家长要在签到表上留下拇指印。而现在，他们开始签名了。孩子们教会了他们。孩子们能教多少都是让人惊喜的。
en:SB: We have 80 percent attendancefor all our parents-teachers meeting.Sometimes it&#39;s even 100 percent,much more than many privileged schools.Fathers have started to attend.It&#39;s very interesting. When we started our schoolthe parents would give thumbprints in the attendance register.Now they have started writing their signature.The children have taught them.It&#39;s amazing how much children can teach.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:几个月前，实际上是前年我们有几个母亲来找我们说：“你知道么，我们想学读写。你能教我们吗？” 于是，我们开始了课外活动为了那些家长，和那些母亲们。我们有25个母亲，她们定期在课外时间来学习。我们希望继续这个项目并将它扩展到我们其他的学校。
en:We have, a few months ago,actually late last year,we had a few mothers who came to us and said,&quot;You know, we want to learn how to read and write.Can you teach us?&quot; So, we started an afterschoolfor our parents, for our mothers.We had 25 mothers who came regularlyafter school to study.We want to continue with this programand extend it to all our other schools.
时间： 8:51
zh-cn:孩子的父亲中有98％是酗酒者。所以，你能想象这些孩子是来自多么让人崩溃和不正常的家庭。我们不得不送这些父亲去戒瘾所当他们回来的时候大部分时间是清醒的，我们得帮他们找份工作以防止他们酒瘾复发我们有三个父亲接受了烹饪的训练我们教他们营养学，卫生学。我们帮助他们建造起厨房而现在他们正在为我们所有的孩子提供食物他们干得非常不错是因为他们的孩子在享用他们的食物，但是最重要的是，这是他们第一次获得尊重，同时他们感觉自己在做有价值的事情。
en:Ninety-eight percent of our fathers are alcoholics.So, you can imagine how traumatizedand how dysfunctional the houses are where our children come from.We have to send the fathers to de-addiction labsand when they come back,most times sober, we have to find a job for themso that they don&#39;t regress.We have about three fathers who have been trained to cook.We have taught them nutrition, hygiene.We have helped them set up the kitchenand now they are supplying food to all our children.They do a very good job becausetheir children are eating their food,but most importantly this is the first timethey have got respect,and they feel that they are doing something worthwhile.
时间： 9:40
zh-cn:我们的非教学的职工中，超过90%是父母亲和大家庭中的成员。我们已经开始很多项目了只是为了确保这些孩子能来上学。给年长的哥哥姐姐们的职业技能项目这样年轻的孩子不必停止上学。
en:More than 90 percent of our non-teaching staffare all parents and extended families.We&#39;ve started many programsjust to make sure that the child comes to school.Vocational skill program for the older siblingsso the younger ones are not stopped from coming to school.
时间：10:00
zh-cn:来自贫民区的孩子不能融入主流也是虚构的来看看这个小女孩她是所有28个来自贵族学校的孩子之一，这个国家里最好的学校她获得加入了杜克大学的人才选择项目最终被送到了印度管理研究所（阿默达巴德）。、
en:There is also this myth that children from the slumscannot integrate with mainstream.Take a look at this little girlwho was one of the 28 childrenfrom all privileged schools,best schools in the countrythat was selected for the Duke Universitytalent identification programand was sent to IIM Ahmedabad.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:视频：女孩：[不清楚] 无论什么时候我们看到 [不清楚]参加那个营地活动对我们而言都是一种骄傲。然后我们去了那里。每个人都非常友好，尤其是我认识了很多朋友。我还感觉到我的英语进步了很多去那里，和朋友们交谈，和所有的。在那里，我们认识了有着不同的行为标准的孩子所有人都有不一样的思维方式，来自完全不一样的社会。我和所有人都熟悉了。他们都非常有好。我在那里认识了非常好的朋友。有来自德里的，有来自孟买的。哪怕现在我们也通过facebook保持联络。
en:Video: Girl: Duke IIMA Camp. Whenever we see that IIMA,it was such a pride for us to go to that camp.Everybody was very friendly,especially I got a lot of friends.And I felt that my English has improved a lotgoing there and chatting with friends.There they met children who arewith a different standard anda different mindset, a totally different society.I mingled with almost everyone.They were very friendly.I had very good friends there,who are from Delhi, who are from Mumbai.Even now we are in touch through Facebook.
时间：11:07
zh-cn:自从阿默达巴德之旅之后我变得完全不一样和人们交往在那个之前，我感觉我不喜欢这样的。我从不和人交往，或者很快就开始和陌生人交谈。我的英语口音进步了很多。我学会了足球和排球，扔飞盘，很多很多运动。我不想去班加罗尔。让我留在这吧。有多么美味的食物。我很喜欢，这里的食物多么美味啊。我喜欢吃东西就像[不清楚] 会来并问我，“是的，女士，您想要点什么？” 听到些感觉多么美妙！
en:After this Ahmedabad tripI&#39;ve been like a totally differentmingling with people and all of those.Before that I feel like I wasn&#39;t like this.I don&#39;t even mingle, or start speaking with someone so quickly.My accent with English improved a lot.And I learned football, volleyball,Frisbee, lots of games.And I wouldn&#39;t want to go to Bangalore. Let me stay here.Such beautiful food,I enjoyed it. It was so beautiful.I enjoyed eating food like[unclear] would come and ask me,&quot;Yes ma&#39;am, what you want?&quot; It was so good to hear!
时间：11:50
zh-cn:（笑声）（掌声）
en:(Laughter)(Applause)
时间：11:56
zh-cn:这个女孩在来上学之前是做女佣的。而现在，她想成为一名神经学者。
en:SB: This girl was working as a maidbefore she came to school.And today she wants to be a neurologist.
时间：12:04
zh-cn:我们的孩子在运动上也发挥出色。他们真的非常优秀。在班加罗尔，有一个校际运动会每年都会举行会有5000个孩子参加他们来自当地140个最好的学校我们连续3年获得了最优秀学校奖我们的孩子回家时都是载誉而归，并获得很多崇拜者和朋友。去年，就有一些来自优秀学校的孩子找到我们想获得入学资格。我们也有自己的梦之队。
en:Our children are doing brilliantly in sports.They are really excelling.There is an inter-school athletic competitionthat is held every yearin Bangalore, where 5,000 children participatefrom 140 best schools in the city.We&#39;ve got the best school award for three years successively.And our children are coming back homewith bags full of medals, with lots of admirers and friends.Last year there were a couple of kidsfrom elite schools that cameto ask for admissions in our school.We also have our very own dream team.
时间：12:49
zh-cn:这些为什么会发生？为什么能有这种自信？这是一种展示吗？我们拥有来自麻省理工学院，伯克利，斯坦福印度科学研究所的教授他们来教我们的孩子很多科学公式试验，大多是课堂之外的。艺术，音乐也在其中治疗和表达媒介。我们同样相信教育的内容更重要。无关基础设施不是厕所，不是图书馆而是在这所学校里真实发生的这才是更重要的。创造一种学习探索，研究的环境这才是真正的教育。
en:Why is this happening? Why this confidence?Is it the exposure? We have professorsfrom MIT, Berkeley, Stanford,Indian Institute of Sciencewho come and teach our children lots of scientific formulas,experiments, much beyond the classroom.Art, music are consideredtherapy and mediums of expression.We also believe thatit&#39;s the content that is more important.It is not the infrastructure,not the toilets, not the libraries,but it is what actually happens in this schoolthat is more important.Creating an environment of learning,of inquiry, of explorationis what is true education.
时间：13:41
zh-cn:当我们开始建立Parikrma我们对于未来的方向毫无头绪我们没有聘请麦肯锡来做商业计划但是我们确信的是我们今天想做的是一次接受一个孩子而不是局限于数字，而实际上看着孩子完成生命的循环释放他所有的潜力。我们不追求数量因为我们主张的是质量大规模和多数量会自动发生的。我们得到了一些企业的支持让我们现在能够开办更多的学校但是我们是以“一次一个孩子”的想法开始的
en:When we started Parikrmawe had no idea which direction we were taking.We didn&#39;t hire McKinsey to do a business plan.But we know for sure thatwhat we want to do today istake one child at a time,not get bogged with numbers,and actually see the child completethe circle of life,and unleash his total potential.We do not believe in scalebecause we believe in quality,and scale and numbers will automatically happen.We have corporates that have stood behind us,and we are able to, now, open more schools.But we began with the ideaof one child at a time.
时间：14:30
zh-cn:这是5岁的Parusharam他几年前乞讨的时候经过一个公交车站被收留，现在在一个孤儿院里，他已经在过去的4个半月中持续来上学。他在幼儿园他已经学会如何讲英语我们现在有个模型，使孩子们可以说英语并懂得英语在短短的3个月时间里。他可以用英语来给你讲有关于口渴的乌鸦，鳄鱼，和长颈鹿的故事。如果你问他喜欢做什么他会回答：“我喜欢睡觉。我喜欢吃，我喜欢玩。”如果你问他他想做什么他会回答：“我想胡闹。”这里，“胡闹”就是等着骑马所以，Parusharam每天来我的办公室。他来是为了来摸摸我的肚子因为他相信这样会给我带来好运。
en:This is five-year-old Parusharam.He was beggingby a bus stop a few years ago,got picked up and is now in an orphanage,has been coming to school for the last four and a half months.He&#39;s in kindergarten.He has learned how to speak English.We have a model by which kids can speak Englishand understand Englishin three month&#39;s time.He can tell you stories in Englishof the thirsty crow, of the crocodileand of the giraffe.And if you ask him what he likes to dohe will say, &quot;I like sleeping.I like eating. I like playing.&quot;And if you ask him what he wants to do,he will say, &quot;I want to horsing.&quot;Now, &quot;horsing&quot; is going for a horse ride.So, Parusharam comes to my office every day.He comes for a tummy rub,because he believes that will give me luck. (Laughter)
时间：15:24
zh-cn:当我开始建立Parikrma的时候我带着一大堆自负和改变世界的决心。但是现在，我已经被改变了。我随着我的孩子们而改变。我从他们身上学到了很多爱，同情心，想象力，和那种创造力。Parusharam就是parikrma有个很简单的开始，但是有很长的路要走。我向你保证，Parusharam会在几年以后在TED研讨会发言。谢谢（掌声）
en:When I started ParikrmaI began with a great deal of arroganceof transforming the world.But today I have been transformed.I have been changed with my children.I&#39;ve learned so much from them:love, compassion, imaginationand such creativity.Parusharam is Parikrmawith a simple beginning but a long way to go.I promise you, Parusharamwill speak in the TED conference a few years from now.Thank you.(Applause)
