时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想告诉你们两场象棋比赛。一场发生在1997年，卡斯帕罗夫，一个人类， 输给了‘深蓝’，一部机器。对许多人来说，这是一个新时代的黎明，一个人被机器统治的时代。但现在的我们，20年已经过去了，而最能改变我们与电脑之间关系的是IPAD，不是 HAL。
en:I&#39;d like to tell you about two games of chess.The first happened in 1997, in which Garry Kasparov,a human, lost to Deep Blue, a machine.To many, this was the dawn of a new era,one where man would be dominated by machine.But here we are, 20 years on, and the greatest changein how we relate to computers is the iPad,not HAL.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:第二场是自由式国际象棋锦标赛在2005年，人类与机器可以一起进入比赛以合作伙伴的身份，而不是敌人，如果他们这样选择。起初，结果是可以预测的。即使是一台超级计算机也会输给特级大师和一台相对较弱的便携式计算机。可结局令人惊讶。谁赢了？不是使用超级计算机的大师，而实际上是两个美国业余选手和他们使用的三台相对较弱的笔记本电脑。他们有能力知道和操纵他们的计算机从而深入探索具体的位置以有效的方法抵消大师和卓越计算的优越的国际象棋知识和其他对手。这是一个令人吃惊的结果： 普通男性，一般的计算机击败最好的人和最好的机器。不管怎么说，不应该是机器于人对战吗？相反，它是关于合作和正确的合作方式。
en:The second game was a freestyle chess tournamentin 2005, in which man and machine could enter togetheras partners, rather than adversaries, if they so chose.At first, the results were predictable.Even a supercomputer was beaten by a grandmasterwith a relatively weak laptop.The surprise came at the end. Who won?Not a grandmaster with a supercomputer,but actually two American amateursusing three relatively weak laptops.Their ability to coach and manipulate their computersto deeply explore specific positionseffectively counteracted the superior chess knowledgeof the grandmasters and the superior computational powerof other adversaries.This is an astonishing result: average men,average machines beating the best man, the best machine.And anyways, isn&#39;t it supposed to be man versus machine?Instead, it&#39;s about cooperation, and the right type of cooperation.
时间： 1:29
zh-cn:近 50 年，我们一直集中大量的精力到 Marvin Minsky的人工智能的愿景。它是一个性感的远景，这是肯定的。很多人已经接受它了。它已成为计算机科学的主流学派。但是，当我们进入了大数据的时代、 网络系统、开放平台和嵌入式技术，我想建议是重新评估另一个的远景的时候了这实际上是大约在同一时间进行开发的。我讨论的是 J.C.R.Licklider 的人机共生，或许更好地被称为&quot;智能强化&quot;一I.A.
en:We&#39;ve been paying a lot of attention to Marvin Minsky&#39;svision for artificial intelligence over the last 50 years.It&#39;s a sexy vision, for sure. Many have embraced it.It&#39;s become the dominant school of thought in computer science.But as we enter the era of big data, of network systems,of open platforms, and embedded technology,I&#39;d like to suggest it&#39;s time to reevaluate an alternative visionthat was actually developed around the same time.I&#39;m talking about J.C.R. Licklider&#39;s human-computer symbiosis,perhaps better termed &quot;intelligence augmentation,&quot; I.A.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:Licklider 是一位计算机科学巨人他对技术和互联网发展有非常深刻的影响。他的设想是，使人与机器进行合作从而作出决定，控制复杂的情况而不是死板的依赖于预先设定的程序。请注意，这个词语&quot;合作&quot;。Licklider 鼓励我们不是用一个烤面包机并使其变成《 星际迷航 》中的科技，而要采取一个人，并使她更有能力。人类如此惊人 — 我们的思维我们的非线形方法，我们的创造力，迭代的假设，都很难让计算机做到类似的事。Licklider 直观地认识了这一点，考虑人类设定目标，提出假说，确定的标准，并进行评价。当然，在其他方面，人类是如此有限。我们在大规模、 计算和容量方面做得很遭。我们需要高端的人才管理以保持摇滚乐队一起演奏。Licklider 预见到所有的程序化的工作可以由计算机完成这需要预先准备目标和决策的方法。
en:Licklider was a computer science titan who had a profoundeffect on the development of technology and the Internet.His vision was to enable man and machine to cooperatein making decisions, controlling complex situationswithout the inflexible dependenceon predetermined programs.Note that word &quot;cooperate.&quot;Licklider encourages us not to take a toasterand make it Data from &quot;Star Trek,&quot;but to take a human and make her more capable.Humans are so amazing — how we think,our non-linear approaches, our creativity,iterative hypotheses, all very difficult if possible at allfor computers to do.Licklider intuitively realized this, contemplating humanssetting the goals, formulating the hypotheses,determining the criteria, and performing the evaluation.Of course, in other ways, humans are so limited.We&#39;re terrible at scale, computation and volume.We require high-end talent managementto keep the rock band together and playing.Licklider foresaw computers doing all the routinizable workthat was required to prepare the way for insights and decision making.
时间： 2:57
zh-cn:安静得，没有大张旗鼓，这种做法已经超越了象棋的胜利。蛋白质排列，一个同样令人难以置信的广阔的国际象棋的话题 — —蛋白质排列方式要比在宇宙中的原子更多。这对改变世界问题启示了我们有能力了解和治疗疾病。而对于这个任务，只有超级计算机的蛮力还不够。Foldit，计算机科学家创建的一个游戏，说明了这个方法的价值。非技术性、 非生物学家业余玩的视频游戏在其中他们直观地重新排列蛋白质的结构，允许此计算机管理原子的力量和互动，并识别结构问题。这种方法以50%的几率击败了超级计算机以30%的几率战平。Foldit最近取得一个显著并重大的科学发现它破译梅森辉瑞猴病毒的结构。一种躲避测定十多年的蛋白酶被三名球员在仅仅几天时间就解决了，也许这是第一次重大科学进展源于玩视频游戏。
en:Silently, without much fanfare,this approach has been compiling victories beyond chess.Protein folding, a topic that shares the incredible expansiveness of chess —there are more ways of folding a protein than there are atoms in the universe.This is a world-changing problem with huge implicationsfor our ability to understand and treat disease.And for this task, supercomputer field brute force simply isn&#39;t enough.Foldit, a game created by computer scientists,illustrates the value of the approach.Non-technical, non-biologist amateurs play a video gamein which they visually rearrange the structure of the protein,allowing the computer to manage the atomic forcesand interactions and identify structural issues.This approach beat supercomputers 50 percent of the timeand tied 30 percent of the time.Foldit recently made a notable and major scientific discoveryby deciphering the structure of the Mason-Pfizer monkey virus.A protease that had eluded determination for over 10 yearswas solved was by three players in a matter of days,perhaps the first major scientific advanceto come from playing a video game.
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:去年，该站点的双子塔，9/11 纪念馆开幕。它显示了数千名受害者的名称通过一个美丽的概念称为&quot;有意义的邻接&quot;。它把他们的名字彼此相邻的安排在一起，根据从一个到另一个人的关系： 朋友、 家人、 同事。当你把它放在一起时，这是相当大的计算挑战：3,500名 受害者、 1,800名邻接请求，整体物理属性的重要性和最后的审美。当第一次被媒体报道时，这件壮举完全归功给了纽约本地的设计公司设计的运算法则。事实真相更为微妙。虽然一种运算法则被用来开发基本框架，人类利用这一框架来设计最终的结果。所以在这种情况下，计算机已评估了数百万种可能的布局， 管理一个复杂的关系系统，和跟踪大量测量数据和变量，使人类能够专注于设计和组合的选择。所以你越常环顾你的周围，在各个地方，您越常看到 Licklider 的愿景。无论是已经现实在你的iPhone的技术或在你车上的GPS的技术，人机共生使我们更有能力。
en:Last year, on the site of the Twin Towers,the 9/11 memorial opened.It displays the names of the thousands of victimsusing a beautiful concept called &quot;meaningful adjacency.&quot;It places the names next to each other based on theirrelationships to one another: friends, families, coworkers.When you put it all together, it&#39;s quite a computationalchallenge: 3,500 victims, 1,800 adjacency requests,the importance of the overall physical specificationsand the final aesthetics.When first reported by the media, full credit for such a featwas given to an algorithm from the New York Citydesign firm Local Projects. The truth is a bit more nuanced.While an algorithm was used to develop the underlying framework,humans used that framework to design the final result.So in this case, a computer had evaluated millionsof possible layouts, managed a complex relational system,and kept track of a very large set of measurementsand variables, allowing the humans to focuson design and compositional choices.So the more you look around you,the more you see Licklider&#39;s vision everywhere.Whether it&#39;s augmented reality in your iPhone or GPS in your car,human-computer symbiosis is making us more capable.
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:因此，如果您想要改善人机共生你可以做什么？您可以从将人设计到过程中开始。而不是思考如何让计算机解决问题，围绕着人去设计结局方案。当您执行此操作时，您很快就会发现你花了你所有的时间上在人和机器之间的接口上，特别是关于设计互动中的摩擦。事实上，这种冲突比人或机器的力量更重要，从整体能力上讲。这就是为什么几个笔记本电脑和两个业余选手轻松击败了一台超级计算机和特级大师。卡斯帕罗夫称这个过程是摩擦的副产品。越好的过程，摩擦越少。尽量减少摩擦原来是决定性变量。
en:So if you want to improve human-computer symbiosis,what can you do?You can start by designing the human into the process.Instead of thinking about what a computer will do to solve the problem,design the solution around what the human will do as well.When you do this, you&#39;ll quickly realize that you spentall of your time on the interface between man and machine,specifically on designing away the friction in the interaction.In fact, this friction is more important than the powerof the man or the power of the machinein determining overall capability.That&#39;s why two amateurs with a few laptopshandily beat a supercomputer and a grandmaster.What Kasparov calls process is a byproduct of friction.The better the process, the less the friction.And minimizing friction turns out to be the decisive variable.
时间： 5:39
zh-cn:或再举一个例子： 海量数据。我们在世界上每个互动都被记录着由与日俱增的传感器：您的电话，您的信用卡，您的计算机。其结果是大量的数据，同时它实际上提供了我们一个机会去更深入地理解人类的特点。处理海量数据的主要方法是集中在，&quot;如何存储这些数据？如何搜索这些数据？如何处理这些数据？&quot;这些都是必要但不完全的问题。当务之急是不弄清楚如何计算，但用什么来计算。如何加入的人类直觉在这种规模的数据上？
en:Or take another example: big data.Every interaction we have in the world is recordedby an ever growing array of sensors: your phone,your credit card, your computer. The result is big data,and it actually presents us with an opportunityto more deeply understand the human condition.The major emphasis of most approaches to big datafocus on, &quot;How do I store this data? How do I searchthis data? How do I process this data?&quot;These are necessary but insufficient questions.The imperative is not to figure out how to compute,but what to compute. How do you impose human intuitionon data at this scale?
时间： 6:08
zh-cn:又一次，我们开始设计把人类引入这一进程。PayPal 作为一家企业，当他们第一次启动时，他们最大的挑战不是，&quot;如何在线转账？&quot;而是，&quot;如何避免有组织犯罪的诈骗？&quot;为什么如此具有挑战性？因为虽然计算机能学到探测和识别基于模式的欺诈，他们学不会做基于模式之外的判断，这同有组织犯罪有很多共同点： 聪明，足智多谋、 有创业精神 —（笑声）—还有一个重大的区别：目的。所以在单独的计算机可以捕获所有得同时，最聪明的诈骗犯捕捉最聪明的，区别就是成功与失败。
en:Again, we start by designing the human into the process.When PayPal was first starting as a business, their biggestchallenge was not, &quot;How do I send money back and forth online?&quot;It was, &quot;How do I do that without being defrauded by organized crime?&quot;Why so challenging? Because while computers can learnto detect and identify fraud based on patterns,they can&#39;t learn to do that based on patternsthey&#39;ve never seen before, and organized crimehas a lot in common with this audience: brilliant people,relentlessly resourceful, entrepreneurial spirit — (Laughter) —and one huge and important difference: purpose.And so while computers alone can catch all but the cleverestfraudsters, catching the cleverest is the differencebetween success and failure.
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:像这类的问题有很多，都是相互适应。他们很少显示出可以辨认到计算机的可重复执行的模式。相反，有一些继承下来的创新或中断的部分同时这些问题越来越多地被藏在了大量的数据中。
en:There&#39;s a whole class of problems like this, ones withadaptive adversaries. They rarely if ever present with arepeatable pattern that&#39;s discernable to computers.Instead, there&#39;s some inherent component of innovation or disruption,and increasingly these problems are buried in big data.
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:例如，恐怖主义。恐怖分子总可以适应这种次要和主要方式的新环境，而且即使在电视上，你可能会看到这些适应能力，和对他们的检测，基本上都是人类。计算机不会检测新的模式和新的行为，但人类可以。人类，利用技术、 测试假设，通过机器为他们寻找目标。本 · 拉登不是被人工智能抓住的。他被抓住是因为专注、足智多谋和聪明的人与各种技术的合作。
en:For example, terrorism. Terrorists are always adaptingin minor and major ways to new circumstances, and despitewhat you might see on TV, these adaptations,and the detection of them, are fundamentally human.Computers don&#39;t detect novel patterns and new behaviors,but humans do. Humans, using technology, testing hypotheses,searching for insight by asking machines to do things for them.Osama bin Laden was not caught by artificial intelligence.He was caught by dedicated, resourceful, brilliant peoplein partnerships with various technologies.
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:这听起来颇具吸引力，你不能通过计算数据的方式来挖掘你的答案。没有&quot;找到恐怖分子&quot;的按钮，同时越多的数据，整合的来源越多，格式的种类越广，形成了一个非常迥异的系统，数据挖掘也更加低效。相反，人们还要参考数据和搜索目标，Licklider 很久以前预见到的，成功的关键是正确的合作，正如卡斯帕罗夫意识到的，这意味着，尽量减少操作界面的摩擦。
en:As appealing as it might sound, you cannot algorithmicallydata mine your way to the answer.There is no &quot;Find Terrorist&quot; button, and the more datawe integrate from a vast variety of sourcesacross a wide variety of data formats from verydisparate systems, the less effective data mining can be.Instead, people will have to look at dataand search for insight, and as Licklider foresaw long ago,the key to great results here is the right type of cooperation,and as Kasparov realized,that means minimizing friction at the interface.
时间： 7:59
zh-cn:现在这种方法使得梳理所有可用且来源非常不同的数据成为了可能，确定关键的关系，并将它们放在一个地方，之前看似几乎不可能完成的东西。对某些人来说，这会影响隐私和公民自由的实行。对其他人来说，这预示了的一个更加伟大的时代对于保护隐私和公民自由，但隐私和公民自由是根本也是最重要的。必须承认，他们不能被抛在一边，即使是出于好意。
en:Now this approach makes possible things like combingthrough all available data from very different sources,identifying key relationships and putting them in one place,something that&#39;s been nearly impossible to do before.To some, this has terrifying privacy and civil libertiesimplications. To others it foretells of an era of greaterprivacy and civil liberties protections,but privacy and civil liberties are of fundamental importance.That must be acknowledged, and they can&#39;t be swept aside,even with the best of intents.
时间： 8:26
zh-cn:让我们探讨，通过几个例子，科技构建驱动人机共生最近产生的影响。
en:So let&#39;s explore, through a couple of examples, the impactthat technologies built to drive human-computer symbiosishave had in recent time.
时间： 8:33
zh-cn:2007 年 10 月，美国和盟军部队突袭了一个在辛贾尔市的基地组织的安全屋位于叙利亚的伊拉克边界。他们发现一份宝贵的文档：700个外国战士的小传草稿。这些外国战士在海湾地区，他们离开他们南欧和北非的家，加入在伊拉克境内的基地组织。这些记录是人力资源管理的形式。外国战士填写这些之后加入该组织。事实证明，基地组织，也，并不是没有其官僚作风。（笑声）他们回答类似的问题，&quot;谁聘请的你？&quot;&quot;你的家乡是哪儿？&quot;&quot;你要求从事什么职业呢？&quot;
en:In October, 2007, U.S. and coalition forces raidedan al Qaeda safe house in the city of Sinjaron the Syrian border of Iraq.They found a treasure trove of documents:700 biographical sketches of foreign fighters.These foreign fighters had left their families in the Gulf,the Levant and North Africa to join al Qaeda in Iraq.These records were human resource forms.The foreign fighters filled them out as they joined the organization.It turns out that al Qaeda, too,is not without its bureaucracy. (Laughter)They answered questions like, &quot;Who recruited you?&quot;&quot;What&#39;s your hometown?&quot; &quot;What occupation do you seek?&quot;
时间： 9:05
zh-cn:这个最后的问题，据透露出十分惊人的洞察力。绝大多数的外国战士在谋求成为自爆烈士 — —极其重要的是，自 2003 年至 2007 年，伊拉克有 1,382 自杀性爆炸，不稳定的主要根源。分析这些数据是困难的。原始的表格是阿拉伯语的，必须要扫描和翻译。这过程中的摩擦不允许有意义的运用时间构架人类的结果，PDFs和独立的坚韧。研究者们不得不撬动了他们人类的思维并运用科技去潜得更深，去探索非显而易见的假说，事实上，目标实现了。20 ％ 的外国战士来自利比亚，50%的人来自利比亚的同一个镇，非常重要，因为以前的统计数字显示，是3%。它还帮助找出了基地组织新的重要人物，阿布叶海亚 · 阿尔-利比亚，利比亚伊斯兰战斗组中的高级官员。2007 年 3 月，他给过一个演讲, 之后来自利比亚的外国战士数量激增。
en:In that last question, a surprising insight was revealed.The vast majority of foreign fighterswere seeking to become suicide bombers for martyrdom —hugely important, since between 2003 and 2007, Iraqhad 1,382 suicide bombings, a major source of instability.Analyzing this data was hard. The originals were sheetsof paper in Arabic that had to be scanned and translated.The friction in the process did not allow for meaningfulresults in an operational time frame using humans, PDFsand tenacity alone.The researchers had to lever up their human mindswith technology to dive deeper, to explore non-obvioushypotheses, and in fact, insights emerged.Twenty percent of the foreign fighters were from Libya,50 percent of those from a single town in Libya,hugely important since prior statistics put that figure atthree percent. It also helped to hone in on a figureof rising importance in al Qaeda, Abu Yahya al-Libi,a senior cleric in the Libyan Islamic fighting group.In March of 2007, he gave a speech, after which there wasa surge in participation amongst Libyan foreign fighters.
时间：10:04
zh-cn:也许最聪明的是，而且，最不明显的是，通过整理其有关数据，研究人员能够深入的探索了叙利亚的协调网络，它负责接收和运送外国战士到边境。这些都是网络的雇佣军，不是空想，同过协调生意赚取利润。例如，他们收取沙特外国战士的钱大大超过利比亚的，钱最终会去向基地组织。敌人可能会破坏他们的网络如果他们知道他们作弊是为了圣战。
en:Perhaps most clever of all, though, and least obvious,by flipping the data on its head, the researchers wereable to deeply explore the coordination networks in Syriathat were ultimately responsible for receiving andtransporting the foreign fighters to the border.These were networks of mercenaries, not ideologues,who were in the coordination business for profit.For example, they charged Saudi foreign fighterssubstantially more than Libyans, money that would haveotherwise gone to al Qaeda.Perhaps the adversary would disrupt their own networkif they knew they cheating would-be jihadists.
时间：10:33
zh-cn:2010 年 1 月，破坏性的 7.0级地震袭击了海地，有史以来第三次惨重的地震灾害，100 万人，10%的人口，无家可归。一个看似小规模的整体救灾工作变得越来越重要，从提供粮食和水开始。在海地，一月和二月是干燥的月份然而许多难民的帐篷都被水淹了。唯一拥有海地详细信息的机构已经被洪水淹没了在地震中，包括领导。所以，问题是，哪些营地处于危险之中，在这些营地有多少人，洪水的时间是什么时候，给予有限的资源和时间和基础设施，我们如何排定搬迁呢？数据得出迥然不同的结论。美国陆军曾有一小部分这个国家详细资料。在线数据源于2006年环境风险会议，其他的地理空间数据，没有其它的集成。在这里，人的目标是要确定可以搬迁的营地基于优先级别的需要。计算机不得不把大量的空间地理信息、 社交媒体数据和救援组织信息集成后来回答这个问题。通过实施一个优秀的程序，要不然这是一个需要40 人超过三个月才能完成的任务现在简化到三个人用40小时就能完成的工作，
en:In January, 2010, a devastating 7.0 earthquake struck Haiti,third deadliest earthquake of all time, left one million people,10 percent of the population, homeless.One seemingly small aspect of the overall relief effortbecame increasingly important as the delivery of foodand water started rolling.January and February are the dry months in Haiti,yet many of the camps had developed standing water.The only institution with detailed knowledge of Haiti&#39;sfloodplains had been leveledin the earthquake, leadership inside.So the question is, which camps are at risk,how many people are in these camps, what&#39;s thetimeline for flooding, and given very limited resourcesand infrastructure, how do we prioritize the relocation?The data was incredibly disparate. The U.S. Army haddetailed knowledge for only a small section of the country.There was data online from a 2006 environmental riskconference, other geospatial data, none of it integrated.The human goal here was to identify camps for relocationbased on priority need.The computer had to integrate a vast amount of geospacialinformation, social media data and relief organizationinformation to answer this question.By implementing a superior process, what was otherwisea task for 40 people over three months becamea simple job for three people in 40 hours,
时间：11:43
zh-cn:这是人机共生所取得的胜利。
en:all victories for human-computer symbiosis.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:Licklider 的梦想， 50 年之后的未来，数据表明我们应该很兴奋的解决这个世纪最困难的问题，人与机器在一起合作。谢谢。（掌声）（掌声）
en:We&#39;re more than 50 years into Licklider&#39;s visionfor the future, and the data suggests that we should bequite excited about tackling this century&#39;s hardest problems,man and machine in cooperation together.Thank you. (Applause)(Applause)
