时间： 0:11
zh-cn:一切从一个问题开始：如果非洲是个酒吧，你的国家在喝什么、干什么？我先写了一个对南非的猜测，其实这并不太符合规则，因为南非不是我的祖国。但是这个猜测影射了南非的持续努力，在被种族隔离政策蹂躏了几十年后，它想打造一个后种族歧视的社会。我发了一条推文：#如果非洲是个酒吧，南非一口气喝干了各种各样的酒，然后苦苦哀求把它赶紧消化掉。
en:It began with one question:If Africa was a bar, what wouldyour country be drinking or doing?I kicked it off with a guessabout South Africa,which wasn&#39;t exactlyaccording to the rulesbecause South Africa&#39;s not my country.But alluding to the country&#39;scontinual attemptsto build a postracial societyafter being ravagedfor decades by apartheid,I tweeted, #ifafricawasabar South Africawould be drinking all kinds of alcoholand begging themto get along in its stomach.
时间： 0:49
zh-cn:然后我就开始等。我突然有那种奇怪的感觉，怀疑自己是不是有些越界了。然后，我又发了几条有关自己国家的推文，还有一些我比较熟悉的非洲国家。然后我又开始等，但是这一次，我几乎读完了我曾经发过的所有推文，以此说服自己，不对……是提醒自己，我其实很幽默，如果别人看不懂，那就算了吧。
en:And then I waited.And then I had that funny feelingwhere I wondered if I crossed the line.So, I sent out a few other tweetsabout my own countryand a few other African countriesI&#39;m familiar with.And then I waited again,but this timeI read through almost every tweetI had ever tweetedto convince myself,no, to remind myself that I&#39;m really funnyand that if nobody gets it, that&#39;s fine.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:但是幸运的是，我并不用这样长时间提醒自己。人们很快就参与进来了。事实上，就在七月那周的周末，那个推特话题 #如果非洲是个酒吧大概已经产生了6万条推文，它点燃了整个大陆，而且出现在了全世界的各类刊物中。
en:But luckily,I didn&#39;t have to do that for very long.Very soon, people were participating.In fact, by the end of that week in July,the hashtag #ifafricawasabarwould have garnered around 60,000 tweets,lit up the continentand made its way to publicationsall over the world.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:人们在用这个话题标签做各种各样的事情。调侃自己国家的陋习：[#如果非洲是个酒吧，尼日利亚呆在酒吧外不停解释自己一定会付入场费，他只需要问清楚守门员的银行账户。]
en:People were using the hashtagto do many different things.To poke fun at their stereotypes:[#IfAfricaWasABarNigeria would be outside explainingthat he will pay the entrance fee,all he needs isthe bouncer&#39;s account details.]
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:批判政府的财政支出：[#如果非洲是个酒吧南非一直在点叫不出名字的酒，把酒桶的龙头一直开着却根本付不起钱。]
en:To criticize government spending:[#ifafricawasabar South Africa would beordering bottles it can&#39;t pronouncerunning a tab it won&#39;t be able to pay]
时间： 2:02
zh-cn:调侃地缘政治的紧张局势：[#如果非洲是个酒吧南苏丹会是一个新来的人，有着严重的情绪失调症。]
en:To make light of geopolitical tensions:[#IfAfricaWasABarSouth Sudan would be the new guywith serious anger management issues.]
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:还有人提醒我们，有些非洲国家即使是非洲人也没听说过：[#如果非洲是个酒吧莱索托是一个没人知道的家伙，却总是能出现在照片里。]
en:To remind us that even in Africathere are some countrieswe don&#39;t know exist:[#IfAfricaWasABarLesotho would be that personwho nobody really knowsbut is always in the pictures.]
时间： 2:19
zh-cn:同时也调侃那些自认为不属于非洲的国家：[#如果非洲是个酒吧埃及、利比亚、突尼斯、阿尔及利亚、摩洛哥说，“我们到底在这鬼地方干什么？！”]
en:And also to make fun of the countriesthat don&#39;t think that they&#39;re in Africa:[#IfAfricaWasABar Egypt, Libya,Tunisia, Algeria and Moroccobe like &quot;What the hellare we doing here?!!&quot;]
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:而且还提到了一些做出重大转变的国家：[#如果非洲是个酒吧卢旺达是一个女孩儿，她来的时候一穷二白，走的时候却很醉很爽很有钱。]
en:And to note the countriesthat had made a big turnaround:[#ifAfricawasabarRwanda would be that girlthat comes with no money and no transportbut leaves drunk, happy and rich]
时间： 2:40
zh-cn:但更重要的是，人们在用这个话题标签来交流。人们交流他们内心的非洲特质。就在七月的一周时间里，推特变成了一个真正的非洲酒吧。我真的很兴奋，主要是因为我发觉泛非主义是真实可行的，在我们面前，在我们指尖，就是一个平台，只需要一点火花，就可以点燃人与人之间的渴望之情。
en:But most importantly,people were using the hashtag to connect.People were connectingover their Africanness.So for one week in July,Twitter became a real African bar.And I was really thrilled,mainly because I realizedthat Pan-Africanism could work,that we had before us,between us, at our fingertipsa platform that just needed a small sparkto light in us a hunger for each other.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:我的名字是希杨达·莫胡提瓦，我现在22岁，从出生起就是泛非主义者。我说自己一出生就是泛非主义者，是因为我的父母来自两个不同的非洲国家。我的父亲来自一个非洲南部的国家，名叫博茨瓦纳。它只比德国稍大一点。今年我们庆祝了祖国获得稳定民主50周年。而且它提出了不少进步的社会政策。我的母亲祖国是斯威士兰王国。它是个很小的国家，同样在非洲南部。它是非洲最后一个完整的君主制国家。它由国王和皇室所统治，长久以来都依照他们的传统行事。
en:My name is Siyanda Mohutsiwa,I&#39;m 22 years oldand I am Pan-Africanist by birth.Now, I say I&#39;m Pan-Africanist by birthbecause my parents arefrom two different African countries.My father&#39;s from a countrycalled Botswana in southern Africa.It&#39;s only slightly bigger than Germany.This year we celebrateour 50th year of stable democracy.And it has some very progressivesocial policies.My mother&#39;s countryis the Kingdom of Swaziland.It&#39;s a very, very small country,also in southern Africa.It is Africa&#39;s last complete monarchy.So it&#39;s been ruled by a kingand a royal familyin line with their tradition,for a very long time.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:从表面上看，这两个国家看上去很不同。当我是个孩子的时候，我就可以看到二者的差别。一个国家下雨下得很多，另一个国家下雨没那么多。但是除此之外，我并没有深刻意识到我的父母来自两个不同国家这有多么重要。但是随着时间推移，它对我产生了很特殊的影响。要知道，我是出生在其中一个国家，但是在另一个国家长大。
en:On paper, these countriesseem very different.And when I was a kid,I could see the difference.It rained a lot in one country,it didn&#39;t rain quite as much in the other.But outside of that,I didn&#39;t really realizewhy it mattered that my parentswere from two different places.But it would go onto have a very peculiar effect on me.You see, I was born in one countryand raised in the other.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:当我们搬家到博茨瓦纳，我是个小孩儿，可以说流利的西斯瓦提语，除此之外就没了。我来到我的新家园，接受新的文化身份，完全是作为一个外来人，我根本不能听懂对我所说的任何话，而这个家庭、这个国家的传统都是我必须要接受的。但是很快，我就抛弃了西斯瓦提语。当我每次回到斯威士兰的时候，我都会深切感受到自己变得多么“非斯威士兰”。
en:When we moved to Botswana,I was a toddler who spoke fluent SiSwatiand nothing else.So I was being introduced to my new home,my new cultural identity,as a complete outsider,incapable of comprehendinganything that was being said to meby the family and country whose traditionsI was meant to move forward.But very soon, I would shed SiSwati.And when I would go back to Swaziland,I would be constantly confrontedby how very non-Swazi I was becoming.
时间： 5:01
zh-cn:还要加上一点，我进入了非洲的私立学校系统，它的唯一目标就是把你的非洲特质去除掉，正因如此，我度过了一个特别的青春期。然而我对个人身份研究的爱好就是在这里产生的，我处在一个奇怪的交叉路口，似乎同属于两个不同地方，却又不真正属于其中任何一个，又好像更属于二者之间空旷、虚无的空间。我对共同的非洲身份这个想法产生了浓厚的兴趣。
en:Add to that my entryinto Africa&#39;s private school system,whose entire purposeis to beat the Africanness out of you,and I would havea very peculiar adolescence.But I think that my interestin ideas of identity was born here,in the strange intersectionof belonging to two places at oncebut not really belongingto either one very welland belonging to this vast spacein between and around simultaneously.I became obsessed with the ideaof a shared African identity.
时间： 5:39
zh-cn:自此之后，我不断地阅读有关政治的文章，还有地理、身份认知，努力搞明白这些都意味着什么。我同样对非洲哲学有着强烈的好奇心。当我开始阅读的时候，我特别倾向于阅读黑人学者的一些作品，比如史蒂夫·比可和弗朗兹·法农，他们研究了复杂的话题，比如说去殖民化问题，还有黑人意识运动。当时14岁的我觉得自己已经消化了这些宏大的想法，我就转而研究非洲著名领导者的演讲，比如说布基纳法索的托马斯·桑卡拉，还有刚果的帕特里斯·鲁姆巴。我阅读过了我能得到的所有的非洲小说。
en:Since then, I have continuedto read about politicsand geography and identityand what all those things mean.I&#39;ve also held on to a deep curiosityabout African philosophies.When I began to read,I gravitated towards the worksof black intellectualslike Steve Biko and Frantz Fanon,who tackled complex ideaslike decolonizationand black consciousness.And when I thought, at 14,that I had digested these grand ideas,I moved on to the speechesof iconic African statesmenlike Burkina Faso&#39;s Thomas Sankaraand Congo&#39;s Patrice Lumumba.I read every piece of African fictionthat I could get my hands on.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:于是当推特出现时，我就带着年轻女孩的热情欣然加入了其中，我的朋友们早就对我乱七八糟的话题感到烦躁了。
en:So when Twitter came,I hopped on with the enthusiasmof a teenage girlwhose friends are super, super boredof hearing about all this random stuff.
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:那年是2011年，那时整个非洲南部，甚至是整个大陆，都有了智能手机的流量包，还有网络冲浪资源，这些都更容易获取了。所以对于我这一代人，我们在这个平台互相发消息，只需要140个字符还有一丁点创意。在去上班的通勤途中，在我们本应集中精力听讲的课堂上，在我们的午休时间，我们尽可能多地交流，讨论作为年轻人、非洲人所要面对的日常现实。
en:The year was 2011and all over southern Africaand the whole continent,affordable data packagesfor smartphones and Internet surfingbecame much easier to get.So my generation, we were sendingmessages to each other on this platformthat just needed 140 charactersand a little bit of creativity.On long commutes to work,in lectures that some of usshould have been paying attention to,on our lunch breaks,we would communicate as much as we couldabout the everyday realitiesof being young and African.
时间： 7:07
zh-cn:但是当然，这种奢侈不是所有人都能享受的。所以这意味着，如果你是博茨瓦纳的一个十几岁女孩，你想在网上找点乐趣，首先，你得要用英语发推。其次，你要关注更多人，不只是你所知的两三个能上网的人。你要关注南非人、津巴布韦人、加纳人、尼日利亚人。突然，你的整个世界都打开了。我的整个世界的确打开了。
en:But of course, this luxurywas not available to everybody.So this meant that if you werea teenage girl in Botswanaand you wantedto have fun on the Internet,one, you had to tweet in English.Two, you had to follow more than justthe three other people you knew online.You had to follow South Africans,Zimbabweans, Ghanaians, Nigerians.And suddenly, your whole world opened up.And my whole world did open up.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:我关注了许多活跃的非洲人，他们环绕非洲大陆旅行，他们给自己拍照，然后分享到推特上，标记了话题 #我的非洲。因为在那个时候，如果你在推特或者谷歌，或是其它社交媒体，搜索非洲的内容，你觉得整个大陆都是各种动物的图片，或者白人在度假村喝鸡尾酒的情景。
en:I followed vibrant Africanswho were travelling around the continent,taking pictures of themselvesand posting themunder the hashtag #myafrica.Because at that time,if you were to search Africaon Twitter or on Googleor any kind of social media,you would think that the entire continentwas just pictures of animalsand white guys drinking cocktailsin hotel resorts.
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:59
zh-cn:但是非洲人利用这个平台，在这些旅游信息中找寻某种意义上的归属感。尼日利亚的海滩上，是非洲人自己在自拍。内罗毕的鸡尾酒吧里，是非洲人自己在品酒。
en:But Africans were using this platformto take some kind of ownershipof the tourism sectors.It was Africans taking selfieson the beaches of Nigeria.It was Africansin cocktail bars in Nairobi.
时间： 8:14
zh-cn:而在我自己的环大陆旅行中，这些非洲人也正是我所遇到的人。我们会讨论非洲文学、政治、经济政策。但是每次都不可避免的，就是讨论到推特。那时我才发觉这真正的意义。我们正处于一个伟大的事物之中。因为历史上第一次，非洲的年轻人可以实时讨论我们大陆的未来，而且没有国界、经济状况限制，也没有小心警惕的政府盯着。
en:And these were the same Africansthat I began to meetin my own travels around the continent.We would discuss African literature,politics, economic policy.But almost invariably, every single time,we would end up discussing Twitter.And that&#39;s when I realized what this was.We were standing in the middleof something amazing,because for the first time everyoung Africans could discussthe future of our continent in real time,without the restriction of borders,finances and watchful governments.
时间： 8:49
zh-cn:因为并没什么人知道，很多非洲人对其它非洲国家的了解，其实少于一些西方人对整个非洲大陆的了解。这其实是个意外情况，但是有时，这都是设计好的。例如说，在种族隔离政策下的南非，南非黑人要持续地接受一种暗示，就是任何被黑人统治的国家，都是注定要失败的。这么做是为了说服他们，他们生活在一个受白人压迫统治的社会，比一个黑人统治的自由社会要更好。再提一提非洲过时的殖民性教育系统，它被人不经思考地从20世纪20年代带到现在，在我15岁的时候，我就可以背出欧洲过去200年里所有战争发生的原因，但是我连我的邻国的总统名字都不知道。对我来说这简直无比荒谬，因为不管我们喜不喜欢如此，非洲人民的命运是紧紧交织的。
en:Because the little known truth ismany Africans know a lot lessabout other African countriesthan some Westernersmight know about Africa as a whole.This is by accident,but sometimes, it&#39;s by design.For example, in apartheid South Africa,black South Africanswere constantly being bombardedwith this message that any countryruled by black peoplewas destined for failure.And this was done to convince themthat they were much better offunder crushing white rulethan they were livingin a black and free nation.Add to that Africa&#39;s colonial,archaic education system,which has been unthinkinglycarried over from the 1920s —and at the age of 15,I could name all the various causesof the wars that had happenedin Europe in the past 200 years,but I couldn&#39;t name the presidentof my neighboring country.And to me, this doesn&#39;t make any sensebecause whether we like it or not,the fates of African peopleare deeply intertwined.
时间： 9:54
zh-cn:当灾难来袭时，当骚乱发生时，结果由我们所共享。当布隆迪人逃脱政治骚乱时，他们寻求我们帮助，寻求其它非洲国家的帮助。全世界大规模的难民中心，非洲占了六个。曾经的一个布隆迪问题，变成了整个非洲的问题。所以对我来说，没有什么“苏丹问题”，没有“南非问题”、“肯尼亚问题”，只有“非洲问题”，因为最终，我们要共同度过灾难。
en:When disaster hits, when turmoil hits,we share the consequences.When Burundians flee political turmoil,they go to us,to other African countries.Africa has six of the world&#39;slargest refugee centers.What was once a Burundian problembecomes an African problem.So to me, there are no Sudanese problemsor South African problemsor Kenyan problems,only African problemsbecause eventually, we share the turmoil.
时间：10:26
zh-cn:所以，如果我们共享这些问题，为什么我们没有更好地共享我们的成功呢？我们怎么能做到呢？从长远来看，我们可以努力增加非洲国家之间的贸易额，消除国界差异，然后给各国领导者施压，让他们努力完成他们签署的地区协定。但是我认为非洲分享成功的最重要的方法，就是促进一种我称为“社交泛非主义”的思想。
en:So if we share the problems,why aren&#39;t we doing a better jobof sharing the successes?How can we do that?Well, in the long term,we can shoot towardsincreasing inter-African trade,removing bordersand putting pressure on leadersto fulfill regional agreementsthey&#39;ve already signed.But I think that the biggest wayfor Africa to share its successesis to foster somethingI like to call social Pan-Africanism.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:目前，政治上的泛非主义已经存在，所以我并不是在发明什么新东西。但是政治泛非主义一般指的是非洲政治精英的合作。这又对谁有好处呢？几乎只对非洲领导人有好处吧。不，我在讨论的，是普通非洲人的泛非主义。像我这样的非洲年轻人，我们充满了创造的能量，富有创新的想法。但是糟糕的统治和不靠谱的制度，会让这种潜能全部白费。在这个大陆上，有许多国家领导人，他们在位的时间，比大陆上大多数人的寿命都要长，我们极度渴望一些新鲜血液，一些有实效的东西。而我认为，这种东西就是社交泛非主义。
en:Now, political Pan-Africanismalready exists,so I&#39;m not inventing anythingtotally new here.But political Pan-Africanismis usually the African unityof the political elite.And who does that benefit?Well, African leaders, almost exclusively.No, what I&#39;m talking aboutis the Pan-Africanismof the ordinary African.Young Africans like me,we are bursting with creative energy,with innovative ideas.But with bad governanceand shaky institutions,all of this potential could go to waste.On a continent where morethan a handful of leadershave been in power longerthan the majorityof the populations has been alive,we are in desperate need of something new,something that works.And I think that thingis social Pan-Africanism.
时间：11:50
zh-cn:我的梦想，是非洲的年轻人不再受国界和个人处境所限制，我们的创造力不被其扼杀。我的梦想，是当非洲年轻人产生了一个新颖的想法时，不会被人嘲讽，“这想法不可能在我们国家实现的”，然后就此放弃。我的梦想，是非洲年轻人逐渐开始意识到，整个大陆都是我们的画板，是我们共同的家园。利用因特网，我们开始用合作方式思考，我们可以共同开拓创新。在非洲，我们常说，“你想走快些，就得自己走；你想走远些，就得一起走。”我相信社交泛非主义就是我们可以一起走远的道路。
en:My dream is that young Africansstop allowing borders and circumstanceto suffocate our innovation.My dream is that when a young Africancomes up with something brilliant,they don&#39;t say, &quot;Well,this wouldn&#39;t work in my country,&quot;and then give up.My dream is that young Africansbegin to realizethat the entire continentis our canvas, is our home.Using the Internet,we can begin to think collaboratively,we can begin to innovate together.In Africa, we say,&quot;If you want to go fast, you go alone,but if you want to go far,you go together.&quot;And I believe that social Pan-Africanismis how we can go far together.
时间：12:38
zh-cn:而且这已经在发生了。非洲年轻人接触到了在线网络，获得了一种曾经要武力夺取的东西：自由之声。我们现在拥有一个平台。在此之前，你如果想了解非洲青少年的状况，你要等那个65岁的青年部长——
en:And this is already happening.Access to these online networkshas given young Africanssomething we&#39;ve alwayshad to violently take: a voice.We now have a platform.Before now, if you wantedto hear from the youth in Africa,you waited for the 65-year-oldminister of youth —
时间：12:57
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:58
zh-cn:早上从床上爬起来，吃了他的胃药，然后才慢慢告诉你，接下来20年他对年轻一代的计划。在此之前，如果你想你的声音被专制的政府听见，你就被逼着去游行，还要承受可能的后果，还得交叉手指默默祈祷，希望某家西方的媒体会做些报道，吸引某些人的关注。但是现在，我们有机会互相支持，而且以一种前所未有的方式。
en:to wake up in the morning,take his heartburn medicationand then tell you the planshe has for your generationin 20 years time.Before now, if you wanted to be heardby your possibly tyrannical government,you were pushed to protest,suffer the consequencesand have your fingers crossedthat some Western paper somewheremight make someone care.But now we have opportunitiesto back each other upin ways we never could before.
时间：13:29
zh-cn:我们支持南非的学生，他们正在游行反抗价格高得离谱的高等教育。我们支持津巴布韦的女性，她们反抗国家的议会。我们支持安哥拉的记者，他们被人非法扣押。有史以来第一次，非洲的痛楚、非洲的理想，能够被那些最能感同身受的人关注：非洲的其他同胞。
en:We support South African studentswho are marching againstridiculously high tertiary fees.We support Zimbabwean womenwho are marching to parliament.We support Angolan journalistswho are being illegally detained.For the first time ever,African pain and African aspirationhas the ability to be witnessedby those who can empathizewith it the most:other Africans.
时间：13:57
zh-cn:我相信，利用社交泛非主义的思维方式，并且借助网络工具的力量，我们可以开始拯救他人，最终，拯救我们自己。
en:I believe that witha social Pan-Africanist thinkingand using the Internet as a tool,we can begin to rescue each other,and ultimately, to rescue ourselves.
时间：14:11
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:12
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
