时间： 0:11
zh-cn:当我还是个年轻军官的时候，他们告诉我要按本能行事，就是相信我的直觉。而我学到的则是，我们的本能往往是错的。
en:When I was a young officer, they told meto follow my instincts,to go with my gut,and what I&#39;ve learnedis that often our instincts are wrong.
时间： 0:24
zh-cn:在2010年夏天，发生了一起大规模泄密事件，从五角大楼泄露出了大量机密文件，震惊了全世界，也震动了美国政府。人们因此而提出许多问题，因为信息泄露的规模，以及它的潜在影响，是非常惊人的。我们对此自我检讨，当务之急的第一个问题，就是为什么一个年轻士兵会有权限可以接触到这么多的信息？为什么我们会让这些敏感信息透露给一个相对来说，比较年轻的人？
en:In the summer of 2010,there was a massive leak of classified documentsthat came out of the Pentagon.It shocked the world,it shook up the American government,and it made people ask a lot of questions,because the sheer amount of informationthat was let out, and the potential impacts,were significant.And one of the first questions we asked ourselveswas why would a young soldier have accessto that much information?Why would we let sensitive thingsbe with a relatively young person?
时间： 1:04
zh-cn:在2003年夏天，我被任命为负责指挥一个特种作战部队，该部队当时正在整个中东地区打击基地组织。我们的主要任务集中在伊拉克境内，而具体的任务目标就是打垮伊拉克境内的基地组织。我在那里呆了将近五年，我们全心全力地投入了一场战争，非常规，很艰难，而且无比血腥。它常常让无辜者付出最高的代价。我们尽了一切所能去阻止基地组织和来自境外的武装分子，他们使用自杀式炸弹，导致暴力进一步升级。我们磨炼了战斗技能，开发了新的装备，我们伞降、机降，我们乘小艇、开车甚至步行，夜复一夜地追踪目标，是为了阻止这个恐怖网络带来的杀戮。我们流血，我们牺牲，我们杀人，是为了阻止这个组织带来的暴力，而它在很大程度上是针对伊拉克人民的。
en:In the summer of 2003, I was assigned to commanda special operations task force,and that task force was spread across the Mideastto fight al Qaeda.Our main effort was inside Iraq,and our specified missionwas to defeat al Qaeda in Iraq.For almost five years I stayed there,and we focused on fighting a warthat was unconventional and it was difficultand it was bloodyand it often claimed its highest priceamong innocent people.We did everything we couldto stop al Qaedaand the foreign fighters thatcame in as suicide bombersand as accelerants to the violence.We honed our combat skills,we developed new equipment,we parachuted, we helicoptered,we took small boats, we drove, and we walkedto objectives night after night to stopthe killing that this network was putting forward.We bled,we died,and we killed to stop that organizationfrom the violence that they were puttinglargely against the Iraqi people.
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:现在，我们做了我们一直熟知的事，有了它我们才得以成长，其中之一就是，它在我们的DNA里，就是机密，就是安全，就是保护信息。就是这样一种看法，信息就是生命线，它能保护人们的安全。并且我们觉得，既然我们是在我们的组织之内运作，把信息放在组织之内的保险柜里就极为重要，特别是，信息只能给那些已经证明了需要知道的人，但问题常常随之而来，谁需要知道？谁需要，谁应当知道这些信息？这样你所需要的工作的重要部分才能交给他们来完成？在这样一个人与人紧密相连的世界，这太难以预计了。谁需要拥有信息谁不需要，实在是难以知晓。我过去跟情报机构打交道，我常抱怨他们情报共享做得不够，然后他们就面无表情地看着我说，“有什么你不知道的吗？”（笑声）我说，“如果我知道了，我们就没问题了。”
en:Now, we did what we knew,how we had grown up, andone of the things that we knew,that was in our DNA, was secrecy.It was security. It was protecting information.It was the idea that information was the lifebloodand it was what would protect and keep people safe.And we had a sense that,as we operated within our organizations,it was important to keep informationin the silos within the organizations,particularly only give informationto people had a demonstrated need to know.But the question often came, who needed to know?Who needed, who had to have the informationso that they could do the important parts of the job that you needed?And in a tightly coupled world,that&#39;s very hard to predict.It&#39;s very hard to know who needs to have informationand who doesn&#39;t.I used to deal with intelligence agencies,and I&#39;d complain that they weren&#39;tsharing enough intelligence,and with a straight face, they&#39;dlook at me and they&#39;d say,&quot;What aren&#39;t you getting?&quot; (Laughter)I said, &quot;If I knew that, we wouldn&#39;t have a problem.&quot;
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:但我们发现必须有所改变，我们必须改变我们在信息上一直以来的做法，我们必须打破围墙，我们必须共享。我们必须面对现实，从谁需要知道，改变为：谁还不知道，我们需要告诉他们，越早越好。对于一个从骨子里视机密为生命的组织来说，这是一个重大的观念转变。
en:But what we found is we had to change.We had to change our culture about information.We had to knock down walls. We had to share.We had to change from who needs to knowto the fact that who doesn&#39;t know,and we need to tell, and tellthem as quickly as we can.It was a significant culture shift for an organizationthat had secrecy in its DNA.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:我们开始做些事情，开始建设，并不是蹲在办公室里，而是打破围墙，我们工作的地方称为“状况知觉室”。在2007年夏天，发生了一件事，证明了这一点。我们捕捉到了一些人员名单，这些人正是把外国武装分子带进伊拉克的人。当我们拿到名单的时候，通常情况下，我们会藏起来，仅在少数情报机构内分享，然后设法与他们一起行动。但我那时正跟我的情报官员谈话，我说，“我们要怎么做？”他说，“嗯，你已经找到了。”我们做主。“你只要解除保密就行了。”我说，“那，我们可以解除保密吗？如果敌人知道了呢？”然后他说，“那是他们的人员名单啊。”（笑声）
en:We started by doing things, by building,not working in offices,knocking down walls, working in things we calledsituation awareness rooms,and in the summer of 2007,something happened which demonstrated this.We captured the personnel recordsfor the people who were bringing foreign fightersinto Iraq.And when we got the personnel records, typically,we would have hidden these,shared them with a few intelligence agencies,and then try to operate with them.But as I was talking to my intelligence officer,I said, &quot;What do we do?&quot;And he said, &quot;Well, you found them.&quot; Our command.&quot;You can just declassify them.&quot;And I said, &quot;Well, can we declassify them?What if the enemy finds out?&quot;And he says, &quot;They&#39;re their personnel records.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:于是我们就这么做了，许多人对此感到不满，不过，随着我们把信息传播开来，突然间，你就发现信息的唯一价值在于你把它给了能用它来做些事情的人。你把它给了能用它来做些事情的人。有的人掌握了某些信息就可以把事情做得更好，如果我不是这样的人，那我知道这些事也没有价值。所以接下来我们做的事情就是，我们改变了对信息的观念，不再是知识就是力量，而是共享才是力量。这是根本转变，并非新的战术，不是新的武器，也不是别的什么东西。它是一种观念，就是如今我们都是团队的一份子，在这之中，信息成为了将我们联接起来的根本要素，而不是彼此之间的阻碍。
en:So we did,and a lot of people got upset about that,but as we passed that information around,suddenly you find that information is only of valueif you give it to people who have the abilityto do something with it.The fact that I know something has zero valueif I&#39;m not the person who can actuallymake something better because of it.So as a consequence, what we did waswe changed the idea of information,instead of knowledge is power,to one where sharing is power.It was the fundamental shift,not new tactics, not new weapons,not new anything else.It was the idea that we were now part of a teamin which information became the essential linkbetween us, not a block between us.
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:我想每个人都深吸一口气，然后呼出来，因为在你的生活中，将会有信息泄露出来，而你并不喜欢这样。有人会把我的大学成绩单翻出来，那将会是场灾难。（笑声）但这终究不会有事，我要告诉你，我更害怕的是把信息放进抽屉或是保险箱的官僚，而不是泄露出来的某个人，因为最终来说，如果我们共享它，我们才会更好。
en:And I want everybody to take a deep breathand let it out,because in your life, there&#39;s going to be informationthat leaks out you&#39;re not going to like.Somebody&#39;s going to get my college grades out,a that&#39;s going to be a disaster. (Laughter)But it&#39;s going to be okay, and I will tell you thatI am more scared of the bureaucratthat holds information in a desk draweror in a safe than I am of someone who leaks,because ultimately, we&#39;ll be better off if we share.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:谢谢大家。
en:Thank you.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 5:56
zh-cn:海伦·沃尔特斯：假如说，你今天早上在这里，假如你刚好遇到了理查德·莱吉特，国家安全局的代理局长，对于爱德华·斯诺登本周早些时候的演讲，他做出了回应，我想知道，你是否认为美国政府应当赦免爱德华·斯诺登？
en:Helen Walters: So I don&#39;t know ifyou were here this morning,if you were able to catch Rick Ledgett,the deputy director of the NSAwho was responding to EdwardSnowden&#39;s talk earlier this week.I just wonder, do you think the American governmentshould give Edward Snowden amnesty?
时间： 6:11
zh-cn:斯坦利·迈克克里斯托：我认为理查德说了很重要的事情。我们，大多数人，并不知道事情的方方面面，我认为这件事有两方面，爱德华·斯诺登让世界意识到了一项重要需求，人们对此必须有所认识。他也取得了许多文件，而他并不具备足够的知识，来了解这些文件的重要性，所以我认为，在我们很快对爱德华·斯诺登一事做出判断之前，有必要先了解这一事件的两个事实。海伦·沃尔特斯：非常感谢，谢谢。（掌声）
en:Stanley McChrystal: I think thatRick said something very important.We, most people, don&#39;t know all the facts.I think there are two parts of this.Edward Snowden shined alight on an important needthat people had to understand.He also took a lot of documents that he didn&#39;t havethe knowledge to know the importance of,so I think we need to learn the facts about this casebefore we make snap judgmentsabout Edward Snowden.HW: Thank you so much. Thank you.(Applause)
