时间： 0:11
zh-cn:以前，在浏览一本很旧的杂志时，我发现了这个有关“诺亚方舟故事”的观察测验。绘制这幅图片的作者设置了一些错误，大概共有12个，其中有一些很容易发现。在方舟上，有一个烟囱，一段天线，一盏灯和一把时钟装置钥匙。其中的一些是有关动物数量的。但是，这里有一个关于诺也方舟故事更根本性、却没有提出来的问题：植物在哪里？现在，上帝准备永远地淹没地球，或者至少要淹没很长一段时间，而却没有人照管植物。对每种鸟类、每种动物、每种会动的生物，诺亚都要挽救两只，却直口不提植物。为什么？这个故事的另一部分，所有活着的生物都只是从方舟上下来的，因此有鸟类、牲畜和野生动物。没有植物。这就是问题所在。这一点从没有在圣经中提及，然而，植物却自始至终伴随着人类的发展。
en:Sometimes I go browsing[through] a very old magazine.I found this observation testabout the story of the ark.And the artist that drew this observation testdid some errors, had some mistakes —there are more or less 12 mistakes.Some of them are very easy.There is a funnel, an aerial part,a lamp and clockwork key on the ark.Some of them are about the animals, the number.But there is a much more fundamental mistakein the overall story of the arkthat&#39;s not reported here.And this problem is: where are the plants?So now we have Godthat is going to submerge Earth permanentlyor at least for a very long period,and no one is taking care of plants.Noah needed to take two of every kind of bird,of every kind of animal,of every kind of creature that moves,but no mention about plants.Why?In another part of the same story,all the living creaturesare just the living creaturesthat came out from the ark,so birds, livestock and wild animals.Plants are not living creatures —this is the point.That is a point that is notcoming out from the Bible,but it&#39;s something thatreally accompanied humanity.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:这个漂亮的密码来自于文艺复兴时期时的一本书，是关于自然等级的描述。这个描述很贴切，因为它从左侧开始——左侧是石头——紧随其后的是仅仅具有生命的植物。之后，是既有生命又能感知的动物；在金字塔的顶端，是人。这不是普通人，而是“智人”——读书人。这令像我这样的人——我是一名教授——颇感欣慰，我们位于世界万物的顶端。但是，这完全错了。你确实对教授非常了解。但对植物来说，你仍然错了。它们不仅具有生命，它们也能够感知。在感知方面，它们比动物更加高级。举个例子，任何一个根端都能够同时且持续地感知并检测至少15种不同的化学和物理参数。此外，它们也能表现出令人赞叹且复杂的行为；如此行为非“智能”不能描述。不过，这一点——对植物的低估——一直都伴随着我们。
en:Let&#39;s have a look at this nice codethat is coming from a Renaissance book.Here we have the descriptionof the order of nature.It&#39;s a nice description because it&#39;s starting from left —you have the stones —immediately after the stones, the plantsthat are just able to live.We have the animals that are able to live and to sense,and on the top of the pyramid,there is the man.This is not the common man.The &quot;Homo studiosus&quot; — the studying man.This is quite comfortingfor people like me — I&#39;m a professor —this to be over there on the top of creation.But it&#39;s something completely wrong.You know very well about professors.But it&#39;s also wrong about plants,because plants are not just able to live;they are able to sense.They are much more sophisticatedin sensing than animals.Just to give you an example,every single root apexis able to detect and to monitorconcurrently and continuouslyat least 15 different chemicaland physical parameters.And they also are able to show and to exhibitsuch a wonderful and complex behaviorthat can be described just with the term of intelligence.Well, but this is something —this underestimation of plants is somethingthat is always with us.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:现在，我们来看个短片。此人是大卫·阿滕伯勒，一位真正的植物爱好者。他制作了一些有关植物行为的最美的影片。现在，当他谈论到植物时，所有一切都没有问题。当他谈到动物时，却往往倾向于认为植物不复存在了。蓝鲸是地球上最大的生物。那是错误的，是完全错误的。在巨大的加州红杉面前，蓝鲸立刻变成了侏儒。加州红杉才真正是地球上最大的生物。（掌声）一棵活的加州红杉至少重达2,000吨。事实上，在很久很久以前，植物是低等生物的观点就已经出现在亚里士多德的《论灵魂》中了。《论灵魂》一书对西方文明有着深远的影响。在书中，亚里士多德认为植物介于生命与非生命状态之间。它们不过是非常低级的灵魂，我们姑且称之为植物灵魂。因为它们不动，因此它们也不需要感知。可事实又如何呢？
en:Let&#39;s have a look at this short movie now.We have David Attenborough.Now David Attenborough is really a plant lover;he did some of the most beautiful moviesabout plant behavior.Now, when he speaks about plants,everything is correct.When he speaks about animals,[he] tends to remove the factthat plants exist.The blue whale,the biggest creature that exists on the planet —that is wrong, completely wrong.The blue whale, it&#39;s a dwarfif compared with the real biggest creaturethat exists on the planet —that is, this wonderful,magnificent Sequoiadendron giganteum.(Applause)And this is a living organismthat has a mass of at least 2,000 tons.Now, the storythat plants are some low-level organismshas been formalizedmany times ago by Aristotle,that in &quot;De Anima&quot; —that is a very influential book for the Western civilization —wrote that the plants are on the edgebetween living and not living.They have just a kind of very low-level soul.It&#39;s called the vegetative soul,because they lack movement,and so they don&#39;t need to sense.Let&#39;s see.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:不错，众所周知，一些植物是可以运动的。这是非常快速的运动。这是捕蝇草，一株正在捕食蜗牛的捕蝇草。对不起了，蜗牛老弟。虽然证据确凿，数个世纪以来，人们一直拒绝承认这一事实。没有人敢说植物可以吃动物，因为这有悖于自然等级（规律）。但植物还可以表现出很多种运动。其中一些是人所共知的，比如开花。不过，这需要借助一些技术才能看到，比如快速播放。而另外一些则非常高级。请看这棵新生的豆子，它时刻移动着去追寻阳光。它如此优雅，宛若一位翩翩起舞的天使。它们也玩耍，它们真的会玩耍。这些是向日葵幼苗，它们的行为除非“玩耍”不能形容。像许多年幼的动物一样，这些向日葵也要不断的训练自己，直到成年；那时，它们要日日追随太阳的方向。当然，它们也对地球引力做出回应。所有幼苗朝着反地球引力方向向上生长，而根系则朝着引力方向向下延伸。植物也会睡觉。这是种含羞草。夜里，它们卷起叶片，减少运动；天亮后，它们就舒展叶片——还有很多很多植物运动的例子。这非常有趣，因为这种睡眠机制被完美地保存了下来，在植物、昆虫和动物中，毫无差别。如果你需要研究睡眠问题，研究植物比研究动物要更容易；甚至从伦理角度来看，也更可行。这是植物实验。
en:Okay, some of the movements of the plants are very well-known.This is a very fast movement.This is a Dionaea, a Venus fly traphunting snails —sorry for the snail.This has been something that has been refused for centuries,despite the evidence.No one can say that the plants were able to eat an animal,because it was against the order of nature.But plants are also ableto show a lot of movement.Some of them are very well known, like the flowering.It&#39;s just a question to use some techniqueslike the time lapse.Some of them are much more sophisticated.Look at this young beanthat is moving to catch the light every time.And it&#39;s really so graceful;it&#39;s like a dancing angel.They are also able to play —they are really playing.These are young sunflowers,and what they are doingcannot be describedwith any other terms than playing.They are training themselves,as many young animals do,to the adult lifewhere they will be called to track the sunall the day.They are able to respond to gravity, of course,so the shoots are growingagainst the vector of gravityand the roots toward the vector of gravity.But they are also able to sleep.This is one, Mimosa pudica.So during the night,they curl the leavesand reduce the movement,and during the day, you have the opening of the leaves —there is much more movement.This is interestingbecause this sleeping machinery,it&#39;s perfectly conserved.It&#39;s the same in plants, in insectsand in animals.And so if you need to study this sleeping problem,it&#39;s easy to study on plants, for example,than in animalsand it&#39;s much more easy even ethically.It&#39;s a kind of vegetarianexperimentation.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:植物也能够彼此交流，它们是非常出色的交流者。它们和其他植物交流，并能够辨识出亲子植物与非亲子植物。它们与植物交流，也与其他物种交流。比如，在传粉期间，通过产生挥发性化合物，它们与动物进行交流。传粉对植物来说是个非常严肃的问题，因为它们要将花粉从一朵花传到另一朵花上，而它们自己却无法从一朵花移动到另一朵花。因此，它们需要一个媒介，而这个媒介通常是动物。许多昆虫是植物传粉的媒介，但传粉媒介又不限于昆虫；甚至鸟、爬行动物以及哺乳动物，如老鼠和兔子，都可以帮植物传播花粉。这是一项严肃的“生意”。有些植物为动物提供一种甘甜的物质——富含高能量——作为其传份的报偿。然而，有些植物则欺骗动物，比如，有些兰花，佯装可以（与传粉昆虫）发生性关系并提供花蜜，而帮其传粉的昆虫最终得不到任何好处。
en:Plants are even able to communicate —they are extraordinary communicators.They communicate with other plants.They are able to distinguish kin and non-kin.They communicatewith plants of other speciesand they communicate with animalsby producing chemical volatiles,for example, during the pollination.Now with the pollination, it&#39;s a very serious issue for plants,because they move the pollen from one flower to the other,yet they cannot move from one flower to the other.So they need a vector —and this vector,it&#39;s normally an animal.Many insectshave been used by plants as vectorsfor the transport of the pollination,but not just insects; even birds, reptiles,and mammals like bats ratsare normally used for the transportation of the pollen.This is a serious business.We have the plants that are giving to the animalsa kind of sweet substance —very energizing —having in change this transportation of the pollen.But some plants are manipulating animals,like in the case of orchidsthat promise sex and nectarand give in change nothingfor the transportation of the pollen.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:现在，在所有我们看到的这些行为背后，隐藏着一个重大的问题。没有大脑，如何能够实现这一切？直到1880年，伟大的查尔斯·达尔文发表了一部叹为观止、震惊世人的著作，从此开启了一场革命。书的名字叫《植物运动的力量》。在查尔斯·达尔文之前，没有人敢谈论植物的运动。本书是在他儿子弗朗西斯的协助下完成的。弗朗西斯是世界上第一位植物生理学教授，曾任职于剑桥大学。在书中，他们用了500页，考虑了植物的每一个运动。本书的最后一段，应该算是文体标记。因为，通常来说，查尔斯·达尔文都是在一本书的最后一段写下最重要的信息。他写道，“说根尖相当于低等动物的大脑并不夸张”。这并非比喻。他曾写过一些非常有趣的信笺给他的朋友J.D.胡克讨论植物大脑的问题。那时，胡可是皇家学院的主席，也就是英国科学的最高权威。
en:Now, there is a big problembehind all this behavior that we have seen.How is it possible to do this without a brain?We need to wait until 1880,when this big man,Charles Darwin,publishes a wonderful, astonishing bookthat starts a revolution.The title is &quot;The Power of Movement in Plants.&quot;No one was allowed to speak about movement in plantsbefore Charles Darwin.In his book,assisted by his son, Francis —who was the first professor of plant physiology in the world, in Cambridge —they took into consideration every single movementfor 500 pages.And in the last paragraph of the book,it&#39;s a kind of stylistic mark,because normally Charles Darwin stored,in the last paragraph of a book,the most important message.He wrote that,&quot;It&#39;s hardly an exaggerationto say that the tip of the radicalacts like the brainof one of the lower animals.&quot;This is not a metaphor.He wrote some very interesting letters to one of his friendswho was J.D. Hooker, or at that time, president of the Royal Society,so the maximum scientific authority in Britainspeaking about the brain in the plants.
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:现在，这是倚斜坡生长的根端。容易看出，这种运动与蠕虫、蛇和所有其他没有脚、在地上蠕动的动物相比没有差别。这种运动并不容易，因为这要求根的不同区域都要运动，并且在没有大脑控制的情况下，完成这些区域的协同运动。因此，我们研究了根端，并发现了一个特殊区域，即蓝色标记的部分——我们姑且称之为过渡区。这个区域非常之小，长度不足1毫米。但它却是植物中耗氧最高的区域。更重要的是，各种信号都产生于此。你所见的这些信号是动作电势，这与我大脑、我们大脑中的神经元用来进行信息交换的信号相同。现在我们知道，一个根端只有几百个具有此种特征的细胞，但我们更知道，一小株植物，比如一棵黑麦，有多么庞大数量的根端——差不多14,000,000个根。因此，共有11,500,000个根端，其总长度达到甚至超过600公里，同时具有巨大的表面积。
en:Now, this is a root apexgrowing against a slope.So you can recognize this kind of movement,the same movement that worms, snakesand every animalthat are moving on the ground without legsis able to display.And it&#39;s not an easy movementbecause, to have this kind of movement,you need to move different regions of the rootand to synchronize these different regionswithout having a brain.So we studied the root apexand we found that there is a specific regionthat is here, depicted in blue —that is called the &quot;transition zone.&quot;And this region, it&#39;s a very small region —it&#39;s less than one millimeter.And in this small regionyou have the highest consumptionof oxygen in the plantsand more important,you have these kinds of signals here.The signals that you are seeing here are action potential,are the same signalsthat the neurons of my brain, of our brain,use to exchange information.Now we know that a root apexhas just a few hundred cellsthat show this kind of feature,but we know how bigthe root apparatus of a small plant, like a plant of rye.We have almost14 million roots.We have 11 and a half millionroot apexand a total length of 600 or more kilometersand a very high surface area.
时间：10:43
zh-cn:我们假想每一个根端都与所有其他的根端在网络中一起工作。这里，左侧是英特网，右侧是根组织。它们有着相同的工作方式。它们都是由小的计算机构成的网络，并在网络中工作。为什么它们会如此相似？因为它们有着相同的进化原因：在捕食中生存下来。它们的工作方式一致。因此，你可以去除90%的根组织，而植物依旧可以存活；你也可以出去90%的因特网，它也仍然能够工作。由此，对于和网络打交道的人，这里有一个建议：植物可以对如何实现网络进化提供不错的建议。
en:Now let&#39;s imaginethat each single root apexis working in network with all the others.Here were have on the left, the Internetand on the right, the root apparatus.They work in the same way.They are a networkof small computing machines,working in networks.And why are they so similar?Because they evolvedfor the same reason:to survive predation.They work in the same way.So you can remove 90 percent of the root apparatusand the plants [continue] to work.You can remove 90 percent of the Internetand it is [continuing] to work.So, a suggestionfor the people working with networks:plants are ableto give you good suggestionsabout how to evolve networks.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:另外一个可能性是技术方面的。我们假想，有一天，我们可以受植物的启发而制造出机器人。到目前为止，人们制造机器人的灵感仅仅来自与人或动物。我们有动物机器人——受动物启发而制造的机器人，昆虫机器人，等等。我们也有受人启发而制造的人形机器人。但是，为什么没有植物机器人？是的，如果你想飞，你应该观察鸟类，受鸟类的启发。但如果你想探察土壤，或在一个新的地区定居，那你最好是跟植物学习，因为植物深谙此道。在我们实验室，另外一个可能性是制造“杂交体”。制造杂交体比制造机器人更容易得多。杂交体是指一半具有生命，而另一半是机器。与动物相比，用植物做实验容易得多。植物有计算力，也有电子信号，因此，植物与机器的连结更加容易，甚至在伦理上也更可行。目前，我们制造杂交体的三种可能包括：用藻类，用叶片以及用植物最强大的部分——根系。
en:And another possibilityis a technological possibility.Let&#39;s imaginethat we can build robotsand robots that are inspired by plants.Until now,the man was inspiredjust by man or the animalsin producing a robot.We have the animaloid —and the normal robots inspired by animals,insectoid, so on.We have the androidsthat are inspired by man.But why have we not any plantoid?Well, if you want to fly,it&#39;s good that you look at birds —to be inspired by birds.But if you want to explore soils,or if you want to colonizenew territory,to best thing that you can do is to be inspired by plantsthat are masters in doing this.We have another possibilitywe are working [on] in our lab,[which] is to build hybrids.It&#39;s much more easy to build hybrids.Hybrid means it&#39;s somethingthat&#39;s half living and half machine.It&#39;s much more easy to work with plantsthan with animals.They have computing power,they have electrical signals.The connection with the machine is much more easy,much more even ethically possible.And these are three possibilitiesthat we are working onto build hybrids,driven by algaeor by the leaves at the end,by the most, most powerful parts of the plants,by the roots.
时间：13:22
zh-cn:谢谢大家！在结束演讲前，我想再次申明，并没有蜗牛因此次演讲而受到伤害。谢谢！
en:Well, thank you for your attention.And before I finish,I would like to reassure that no snails were harmedin making this presentation.Thank you.
时间：13:34
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
