时间： 0:11
zh-cn:大约15年前，我去香港拜访一位朋友。那个时候我很迷信。所以，在飞机降落之前—那还是在香港的旧机场，那是Kai Tak,它当时正好在市中心—我当时想：如果我现在看见一些好的东西，那么我将会在香港的这2周过的十分快乐。如果我看见一些不好的东西，那么我将会过的十分悲痛沮丧。
en:About 15 years ago, I went to visit a friend in Hong Kong.And at the time I was very superstitious.So, upon landing — this was still at the old Hong Kong airportthat&#39;s Kai Tak, when it was smack in the middle of the city —I thought, &quot;If I see something good, I&#39;m going to have a great time here inmy two weeks. And if I see something negative, I&#39;m going to be miserable, indeed.&quot;
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:之后飞机降落在一些楼的中间，并停在了这个小广告牌的前面。笑声（WINNER：胜利者）实际上，我当时是去参观一些香港的设计公司。但结果却是—我本来只是想去看看他们在香港正在做什么设计项目。
en:So the plane landed in between the buildingsand got to a full stop in front of this little billboard.(Laughter)And I actually went to see some of the design companiesin Hong Kong in my stay there.And it turned out that —I just went to see, you know, what they are doing in Hong Kong.
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:但是我却轻易的获得了一个很好的工作机会。之后我飞回奥地利并收拾我的行装。一个星期后，我又踏上了飞往香港的旅程，我仍然迷信的想：好的，如果那块“Winner&quot;(胜利）的广告牌还竖在那里的话，我将会在这里工作的很开心。笑声但是如果它不在那里的话，我在香港的时间将会很不幸，很痛苦。但结果是，不仅那块广告牌还竖在那里，有人还将这块牌子放在了它的旁边。笑声（Double Happiness:双重快乐）另一方面，它也让我明白了迷信不可信，因为之后我在香港真的过很糟糕。笑声
en:But I actually walked away with a great job offer.And I flew back to Austria, packed my bags,and, another week later, I was again on my way to Hong Kongstill superstitions and thinking, &quot;Well, if that &#39;Winner&#39; billboard is still up,I&#39;m going to have a good time working here.(Laughter)But if it&#39;s gone, it&#39;s going to be really miserable and stressful.&quot;So it turned out that not only was the billboard still upbut they had put this one right next to it.(Laughter)On the other hand, it also taught me where superstition gets mebecause I really had a terrible time in Hong Kong.(Laughter)
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:但是，在生活中我确实有过一些真正的快乐时刻—就像你们知道的，这个会议宣传册上所提到的，那种带走你呼吸的美好时刻。由于我是一个喜欢列表单的人，所以我将他们都列举出来了。笑声现在，大家并不需要担心去阅读这些条款，我也不会在这里将他们一一念出来。我知道听别人的欢乐幸福故事是一件令人难以置信乏味的事情。笑声
en:However, I did have a number of real moments of happiness in my life —of, you know, I think what the conference brochure refers toas &quot;moments that take your breath away.&quot;And since I&#39;m a big list maker, I actually listed them all.(Laughter)Now, you don&#39;t have to go through the trouble of reading themand I won&#39;t read them for you.I know that it&#39;s incredibly boring to hear about other people&#39;s happinesses.(Laughter)
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:但是，我要做的就是从设计的角度去看待他们并且将一切与设计无关的条款都移除。之后我非常惊奇地发现，实际上有多过一半的条款都与设计有些关系。
en:What I did do, though is, I actually looked at them from a design standpointand just eliminated all the ones that had nothing to do with design.And, very surprisingly, over half of them had, actually, something to do with design.
时间： 2:55
zh-cn:所以，这有两种可能性。一种是从消费者的角度看——即当我体验设计时的快乐。我可以举一个例子。我得到我的第一个随声听，那是在1983年。这是我兄弟当时的雅马哈摩托车，并且他很乐意随时将它借给我。这是那时候“The Police”发行的名为“同步”的专辑磁带。在我的家乡Bregenz没有规定骑摩托车要带头盔的法律。所以你可以骑到山上，自由大声地用新索尼随身听播放Police的音乐。笑声我记得那是我真正的快乐时刻。当然，这种快乐与他们中的至少这两种东西的同时存在的的结合有关，即两种有设计的产品。并且你知道，当我们谈论设计的时候是有一个关于快乐的衡量标准比例的，但是对于摩托车这种小事将会位于愉快与极乐之间。
en:So there are, of course, two different possibilities.There&#39;s one from a consumer&#39;s point of view —where I was happy while experiencing design.And I&#39;ll just give you one example. I had gotten my first Walkman.This is 1983.My brother had this great Yamaha motorcyclethat he was willing to borrow to me freely.And The Police&#39;s &quot;Synchronicity&quot;cassette had just been releasedand there was no helmet law in my hometown of Bregenz.So you could drive up into the mountainsfreely blasting The Police on the new Sony Walkman.(Laughter)And I remember it as a true moment of happiness.You know, of course, they are related to this combination ofat least two of them being, you know, design objects.And, you know, there&#39;s a scale of happiness when you talk about in designbut the motorcycle incident would definitely be, you know,situated somewhere here — right in there between Delight and Bliss.
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:现在，还有另外一部分，从设计师的角度看—当你做设计的时候，你是否快乐。也许有一种方法可以看到设计师们在从事设计的时候到底有多高兴—看他们专著封底的作者照片。笑声所以，据此，奥地利以及日本还有墨西哥的设计师们都非常快乐。笑声然而，西班牙的设计师们有点，我看，尤其是瑞士的设计师们，笑声并不是那么快乐。笑声
en:Now, there is the other part, from a designer&#39;s standpoint —if you&#39;re happy while actually doing it.And one way to see how happy designers are when they&#39;re designing could be tolook at the authors&#39; photos on the back of their monographs?(Laughter)So, according to this, the Australians and the Japaneseas well as the Mexicansare very happy.(Laughter)While, somewhat, the Spaniards ...and, I think, particularly, the Swiss(Laughter),don&#39;t seem to be doing all that well.(Laughter)
时间： 4:45
zh-cn:去年十一月，有一个博物馆在东京开放，名为Mori博物馆，它在一栋摩天楼的第56层。他们的首次展览名为“快乐”。那么我就带着非常渴望的心情去参观，因为，当然此行的目的也着眼于此次会议。有趣的是，他们将展览分为了四个不同的区域。在“阿卡迪亚&quot;展区（意为古希腊或世外桃源），他们展出了类似这样的作品，来自于日本江户时期——用一百种不同的造型书写快乐的方法。他们还展示了Yoko Ono 的苹果—当然，之后你知道，他成为了披头士的标签。
en:Last November, a museum opened in Tokyo called The Mori Museum,in a skyscraper, up on the 56th floor.And their inaugural exhibit was called &quot;Happiness.&quot;And I went, very eagerly, to see it, because —well, also, with an eye on this conference.And they interestingly sectioned the exhibit off into four different areas.Under &quot;Arcadia,&quot; they showed things like this, from the Edo period —a hundred ways to write &quot;happiness&quot; in different forms.Or they had this apple by Yoko Ono — that, of course, later onwas, you know, made into the label for The Beatles.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:在&quot;天堂&quot;展区，他们展示了Constable的绘画。关于抽象有一个小而有趣的理论。这是一块蓝色的区域—它实际上是Yves Kline的绘画。这个理论就是，如果你将一个图像抽象化，那么你可以，为这种非代表性打开许多空间——因此，可以使观众更多的参与进来。
en:Under &quot;Nirvana&quot; they showed this Constable painting.And there was a little — an interesting theory about abstraction.This is a blue field — it&#39;s actually an Yves Klein painting.And the theory was that if you abstract an image, you really, you knowopen as much room for the un-representable —and, therefore, you know, are able to involve the viewer more.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:在“欲望”的展区，他们展示了这些Shunsho的绘画——同样来自于日本江户时代—油墨印在丝绸上。最后，在“和谐”的展厅内，他们展示了这个十三世纪的来自于西藏的曼陀罗。
en:Then, under &quot;Desire,&quot; they showed these Shunsho paintings —also from the Edo period — ink on silk.And, lastly, under &quot;Harmony,&quot; they had this 13th-century mandala from Tibet.
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:那么，我从这个展览中得到的是，除了曼陀罗这个特例以外，展览中的大部分作品实际上都只是给人视觉上的快乐而不是内心的快乐。并且我觉得有点被欺骗的感觉，因为视觉化——那真的是很容易做到的事情。并且你知道，我的设计工作室—我们一直致力于这方面的工作。这是一本书。一条快乐的狗—当你把外壳去掉，这是一条凶狠的狗。这是快乐的David Byrne 和愤怒的David Byrne 。或是一张有着笑脸的爵士乐海报，以及面部好斗的表情。你知道，达到这些并没有什么大不了的。
en:Now, what I took away from the exhibit was thatmaybe with the exception of the mandalamost of the pieces in there were actually about the visualization of happinessand not about happiness.And I felt a little bit cheated, because the visualization —that&#39;s a really easy thing to do.And, you know, my studio — we&#39;ve done it all the time.This is, you know, a book.A happy dog — and you take it out, it&#39;s an aggressive dog.It&#39;s a happy David Byrne and an angry David Byrne.Or a jazz poster with a happy face and a more aggressive face.You know, that&#39;s not a big deal to accomplish.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:在广告行业界，有一种说法，或者在电影界，就是“快乐”拥有一个非常不好的声誉，以至于如果你真的想做与这个主题有关的一些事情并且是原创的话，那你将不得不从愤世嫉俗的观点角度切入。这是一个电影海报。这是我们在几周前，为“说话的头”设计的包装，当然快乐的概念在封面上得到了视觉化的体现，
en:It has gotten to the point where, you know, within advertisingor within the movie industry, &quot;happy&quot; has gotten such a bad reputation thatif you actually want to do something with the subjectand still appear authentic, you almost would have to, you know,do it from a cynical point of view.This is, you know, the movie poster.Or we, a couple of weeks ago, designed a box set for The Talking Headswhere the happiness visualized on the cover definitely has, very much, a dark side to it.
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:更加困难的是，如何让设计激起人们的快乐，我将展示三个真正激起我快乐的设计。这是一个由一位年轻的纽约设计师领导的设计项目，他将自己称为“真实”。每个曾经做过纽约地铁的人应该都对这些标识很熟悉吧？“真实”设计并印刷出自己的标识版本。每周三他都会和他的20个朋友在一个地铁站会面。他们分成不同的小组，将他们的标识版本添加在不同的地铁线路上。笑声这是一个。笑声
en:Much, much more difficult is this, where the designs actually can evoke happiness —and I&#39;m going to just show you three that actually did this for me.This is a campaign done by a young artist in New York, who calls himself &quot;True.&quot;Everybody who has ridden the New York subway system will befamiliar with these signs?True printed his own version of these signs.Met every Wednesday at a subway stop with 20 of his friends.They divided up the different subway lines and added their own version.(Laughter)So this is one.(Laughter)
时间： 8:37
zh-cn:实际上并没有人会去看原来的这些标识系统。所以笑声当你十分无聊的在坐地铁的时候，你会盯着某些东西看，然后你花了一定时间直到你意识到—这些标识和以前正常的标识表达的内容并不一样。笑声我意思是，这至少让我快乐。笑声
en:Now, the way this works in the system is that nobody ever looks at these signs.So you&#39;re(Laughter)you&#39;re really bored in the subway, and you kind of stare at something.And it takes you a while until it actually —you realize that this says something different than what it normally says.(Laughter)I mean, that&#39;s, at least, how it made me happy.(Laughter)
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:“真实”是一个真的人道主义者。他那时也不想朋友们被逮住，所以他给每位朋友制作了这个假造的志愿者卡片，笑声并且给了他们每个人这封假造的，来自于MAT的信——使其看起来有点像是一个由地铁部门资助的一个艺术项目。笑声
en:Now, True is a real humanitarian.He didn&#39;t want any of his friends to be arrested,so he supplied everybody with this fake volunteer card.(Laughter)And also gave this fake letter from the MTA to everybody —sort of like pretending that it&#39;s an art projectfinanced by The Metropolitan Transit Authority.(Laughter)
时间： 9:37
zh-cn:另一个来自纽约的项目。这位于P.S.1—一个基于一个正方形房间的雕塑，设计者为James Turrell，这个设计有着可伸缩自如的天花板，在每天黄昏和黎明时分打开，你看不到水平面，你就站在那里面，看着这不可思议的，微妙的天空色彩变化。并且这个房间也实在有很多值得看的东西。当人们进去那里时，人们的行为也会发生改变。当然，我在那里呆了一个小时后并没有以同样的方式观察天空。
en:Another New York project.This is at P.S. 1 — a sculpture that&#39;s basically a square roomby James Turrell, that has a retractable ceiling.Opens up at dusk and dawn every day.You don&#39;t see the horizon.You&#39;re just in there, watching the incredible, subtle changes of color in the sky.And the room is truly something to be seen.People&#39;s demeanor changes when they go in there.And, for sure, I haven&#39;t looked at the sky in the same wayafter spending an hour in there.
时间：10:16
zh-cn:当然，除了我现在展示的这三张投影图片之外，还有许多其他的天空光影的效果。我可以确定的说，几年前在麦哈顿观察Vik Muniz设计的“云”项目确实同样让我感到高兴。我要展示的最后一个项目，是由一位年轻的纽约设计师所做，他其实是韩国人。他主动印了55，000个卡通造型的语言留言板——空的卡通留言贴，有大型号的和小型号的。他在纽约到处游走，并将他们粘在海报上。笑声其他人走过并填写这些空的留言贴。笑声
en:There are, of course, more than those three projects that I&#39;m showing here.I would definitely say that observing Vik Muniz&#39; &quot;Cloud&quot;a couple of years ago in Manhattan for sure made me happy, as well.But my last project is, again, from a young designer in New York.He&#39;s from Korea originally.And he took it upon himself to print 55,000 speech bubbles —empty speech bubbles stickers, large ones and small ones.And he goes around New York and just puts them, empty as they are, on posters.(Laughter)And other people go and fill them in.(Laughter)
时间：10:59
zh-cn:这张写着：请让我安静的死去吧。笑声我想这个是—让我最吃惊的是，这些文字都很漂亮这是在一个音乐海报上面的留言，写着：我担心我的CD将不会卖到超过200，000张，那么结果将是，我将不会再有自己的唱片。在这之后，我的合约将会被取消，之后我将会回到Bleecker街（在夜店酒吧）翻唱别人的歌。笑声
en:This one says, &quot;Please let me die in peace.&quot;(Laughter)I think that was —the most surprising to myself was that the writing was actually so good.This is on a musician poster, that says:&quot;I am concerned that my CD will not sell more than 200,000 unitsand that, as a result, my recoupable advancefrom my label will be taken from me,after which, my contract will be cancelled,and I&#39;ll be back doing Journey covers on Bleecker Street.&quot;(Laughter)
时间：11:53
zh-cn:我想这个项目可以达到使人快乐的原因是每个人都获得了一些东西。Jee做了这个项目；公众获得了一个更亲切的环境；以及不同的人获得了一个可以表达他们自己的地方；并且登广告的人最终获得了一些人去关注他们的广告。笑声
en:I think the reason this works so well is because everybody involved wins.Jee gets to have his project;the public gets a sweeter environment;and different public gets a place to express itself;and the advertisers finally get somebody to look at their ads.(Laughter)
时间：12:19
zh-cn:当然，在我的思想中有个问题存在了一段时间：你知道，我可以在设计中做更多我想做的事，做更少我不想做的事吗？这个问题又将我带回了我的这张列表——去看看到底我喜欢我工作的那些方面。
en:Well, there was a question, of course, that was on my mind for a while:You know, can I do more of the things that I like doing in designand less of the ones that I don&#39;t like to be doing?Which brought me back to my list making —you know, just to see what I actually like about my job.
时间：12:41
zh-cn:其中之一就是：可以没有压力的去工作。以及：没有疲惫的专心集中的工作。或者，如同Nancy之前说的，就像自己沉浸在其中。试着不要总是固定的做相同的事——或者试着不要总是成天躲在电脑后面。这就是，我们说的，走出工作室做设计。还有就是，当然，试着设计一些东西，他们的内容是非常重要的。并且可以去享受工作的成果。
en:You know, one is: just working without pressure.Then: working concentrated, without being frazzled.Or, as Nancy said before, like really immerse oneself into it.Try not to get stuck doing the same thing —or try not get stuck behind the computer all day.This is, you know, related to it: getting out of the studio.Then, of course, trying to, you know, work on thingswhere the content is actually important for me.And being able to enjoy the end results.
时间：13:18
zh-cn:除此之外，我在我的记事本上还找到了另一个列表，—到目前为止在我生命中所学习到的所有东西。并且就在那时，一个奥地利的杂志社联系我并问我是否愿意设计六张杂志广告—设计六张可以将杂志内不同章节分开的杂志广告？这个正好与我的想法走到一起了。所以我在其中挑选了一条我认为我已经学到了的东西—那就是，我常常想起我做的每件事情——并且我们的这个设计就源于此。所以这就是：所有我做的常常回到我这里。
en:And then I found another list in one of my diaries that actually containedall the things that I thought I learned in my life so far.And, just about at that time, an Austrian magazine called and askedif we would want to do six spreads — design six spreadsthat work like dividing pages between the different chapters in the magazine?And the whole thing just fell together.So I just picked one of the things that I thought I learned —in this case, &quot;Everything I do always comes back to me&quot; —and we made these spreads right out of this.So it was: &quot;EverythingI doalwayscomesbackto me.&quot;
时间：14:09
zh-cn:几周前，笑声一个法国公司邀请我们为他们设计五块广告牌。又一次的，我们的设计运用了这里的内容。所以我挑选了其中的另外一条。这是两周前。我们飞去亚利桑那（美国一个州）—我自己以及和我一起工作的设计师们—并且我们为这个项目摄影。这就是：装出来的好看反而局限了我的人生
en:A couple of weeks ago, a(Laughter)French company asked us to design five billboards for them.Again, we could supply the content for it.So I just picked another one.And this was two weeks ago.We flew to Arizona — the designer who works with me, and myself —and photographed this one.So it&#39;s: &quot;Tryingto lookgoodlimitsmy life.&quot;
时间：14:43
zh-cn:之后我们又做了一个。这个也是为某杂志设计的分离页面的广告。这是：有—（Having）这是同样的物体——只是从侧面的角度拍摄。这是前视图。然后这是：勇气（guts）这是同一个物体—“勇气”，将它修改了后放在同样的房间里。这是：经常（always）解决（works out）然后是for，这是打了灯看到的效果笑声这是“我”（me）。
en:And then we did one more of these.This is, again, for a magazine, dividing pages.This is: &quot;Having&quot; —this is the same thing;it&#39;s just, you know, photographed from the side.This is from the front.Then it&#39;s: &quot;guts.&quot;Again, it&#39;s the same thing — &quot;guts&quot; is just the same room, reworked.Then it&#39;s: &quot;alwaysworks out.&quot;Then it&#39;s &quot;for,&quot; with the light on.(Laughter)And it&#39;s &quot;me.&quot;
时间：15:18
zh-cn:非常感谢大家。掌声
en:Thank you so much.(Applause)
