时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我要问大家一件事：在座的各位谁还记得当自己第一次意识到自己有一天会死去时那一刻的感受？
en:I have a question:Who here remembers when they first realizedthey were going to die?
时间： 0:20
zh-cn:我还记得， 那时我还是个小男孩我的祖父刚刚过世了，记得几天后的一个夜晚，我躺在床上是这回想之前所发生的一切去世到底意味着什么？他去哪了？有点像现实中有个洞打开把他吞了。但那时对我而言，有个震撼的问题是：如果他会死去，同样的事也会发生在我身上吗？现实中真有个洞打开并把我吞下吗？它会在我的床底下打开并在我睡着的时候把我吞下吗？嗯，某种程度而言，所有的孩子开始意识到死亡。当然，它会以不同的方式发生，并且通常会在某个阶段到来。随着我们年龄的增长，我们对死亡的观念逐渐形成。并且如果你回想起你记忆中的最黑暗的角落时，你或许会想起和我感受相同的的一些事情在我祖父去世的时侯我意识到同样事情也会发生在我身上，背后所有这一切的感受是空虚的等待。
en:I do. I was a young boy,and my grandfather had just died,and I remember a few days later lying in bed at nighttrying to make sense of what had happened.What did it mean that he was dead?Where had he gone?It was like a hole in reality had opened upand swallowed him.But then the really shockingquestion occurred to me:If he could die, could it happen to me too?Could that hole in reality open up and swallow me?Would it open up beneath my bedand swallow me as I slept?Well, at some point, all childrenbecome aware of death.It can happen in different ways, of course,and usually comes in stages.Our idea of death develops as we grow older.And if you reach back into the dark cornersof your memory,you might remember something like what I feltwhen my grandfather died and when I realizedit could happen to me too,that sense that behind all of thisthe void is waiting.
时间： 1:27
zh-cn:在童年时代的这种发展反应了人类的发展。就像你生命中的某一时刻还是小孩的时候，对自我和时间的认知变得十分复杂你意识到你难逃一死，所有在人类进化的某个时刻，前人对自我和时间的认知开始变得复杂然后成为第一批意识到，“我终将会死去。”的人们。如果你能接受，这是我们的诅咒。那是我们对料知死亡所付出的代价。我们不得不生活在最坏的的事情将会发生的状态下，这一天当然会来，终结我们所有的计划，我们的希望，梦想，也会带走我们的一片天。我们每个人生活在自己的末日阴影下。
en:And this development in childhoodreflects the development of our species.Just as there was a point in your developmentas a child when your sense of self and of timebecame sophisticated enoughfor you to realize you were mortal,so at some point in the evolution of our species,some early human&#39;s sense of self and of timebecame sophisticated enoughfor them to become the first human to realize,&quot;I&#39;m going to die.&quot;This is, if you like, our curse.It&#39;s the price we pay for being so damn clever.We have to live in the knowledgethat the worst thing that can possibly happenone day surely will,the end of all our projects,our hopes, our dreams, of our individual world.We each live in the shadow of a personalapocalypse.
时间： 2:24
zh-cn:那时很吓人，很恐怖的。所以我们试图寻找一个出路。以我为例，在我5岁左右的时候，我去问我的妈妈。现在当我开始问到我们死亡时会发生什么，我周围的大人们那个时候会带着尴尬的，基督教的经典语句来回答我，我最常听到的词是祖父现在”在天上看着我们“并且如果我也死去，当然现在不会发生，那时我也会到天上去，让死亡听起来像一部存在的升降电梯。现在听起来不在是那么的真实可信。那时候我通常会看儿童的新闻节目，那时是个太空探索的时代。经常会有火箭冲向蓝天，进入太空。但是没有一个从太空归来的航天员提及我见到了我的祖父或其它死去的人。但那时我很害怕，乘坐可能存在的升降电梯去见我的祖父相比在我睡梦中巨大的空间吞噬的想法更容易接受。所以我就相信了，尽管它没有任何意义。
en:And that&#39;s frightening. It&#39;s terrifying.And so we look for a way out.And in my case, as I was about five years old,this meant asking my mum.Now when I first started askingwhat happens when we die,the grown-ups around me at the timeanswered with a typical English mix of awkwardnessand half-hearted Christianity,and the phrase I heard most oftenwas that granddad was now&quot;up there looking down on us,&quot;and if I should die too, whichwouldn&#39;t happen of course,then I too would go up there,which made death sound a lot likean existential elevator.Now this didn&#39;t sound very plausible.I used to watch a children&#39;snews program at the time,and this was the era of space exploration.There were always rockets going up into the sky,up into space, going up there.But none of the astronauts when they came backever mentioned having met my granddador any other dead people.But I was scared,and the idea of taking the existential elevatorto see my granddadsounded a lot better than being swallowedby the void while I slept.And so I believed it anyway,even though it didn&#39;t make much sense.
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:我小时候就有这种思考模式从那时候起发生过很多次，长大后也是，这被心理学家称之为偏误。（偏见与误解）偏误有自己的流程让我们按照错误的方式思考事物计算错误，判断错误，扭曲现实，或者只看到了我们想看到的东西。我这里说的偏误是这么回事：某些人面对他们终将会死去的现实他们只会相信告诉他们的任何故事都不会是真的他们可以永久的活着，即便乘坐可能存在的升降电梯。现在我们可以将这个视为最大的偏误。它已经被400多项实证研究证明。这些研究设计的很精巧，但非常简单。它们像这样工作。你找两组各个方面都很相似的人，并且提醒一组人他们即将死去而不告诉另一群人，然后比较他们的行为。你会观察到当人们开始意识到他们大限将至，偏误行为是如何产生的。并且你每次都能得到相同的结论：意识到会死亡的人更愿意相信那些告诉他们能够摆脱死亡并能长生不老的故事。因此有下面这个例子：找两组不可知论者，这些人没有固定的宗教信仰。现在，其中一组被要求思考死亡。而另一种则被要求思考孤独。他们再次被问到他们的宗教信仰。那些被要求死亡的那组人有两倍的可能性来表达对上帝和耶稣的信仰。两倍的可能性。即使他们之前是同样的不可知论者。但对死亡的恐惧摆在他们面前，他们会向耶稣靠拢。
en:And this thought process that I went throughas a child, and have been through many times since,including as a grown-up,is a product of what psychologists calla bias.Now a bias is a way in which we systematicallyget things wrong,ways in which we miscalculate, misjudge,distort reality, or see what we want to see,and the bias I&#39;m talking aboutworks like this:Confront someone with the factthat they are going to dieand they will believe just about any storythat tells them it isn&#39;t trueand they can, instead, live forever,even if it means taking the existential elevator.Now we can see this as the biggest bias of all.It has been demonstrated in over 400empirical studies.Now these studies are ingenious, but they&#39;re simple.They work like this.You take two groups of peoplewho are similar in all relevant respects,and you remind one group that they&#39;re going to diebut not the other, then you compare their behavior.So you&#39;re observing how it biases behaviorwhen people become aware of their mortality.And every time, you get the same result:People who are made aware of their mortalityare more willing to believe storiesthat tell them they can escape deathand live forever.So here&#39;s an example: One recent studytook two groups of agnostics,that is people who are undecidedin their religious beliefs.Now, one group was asked to think about being dead.The other group was asked to think aboutbeing lonely.They were then asked againabout their religious beliefs.Those who had been askedto think about being deadwere afterwards twice as likely to express faithin God and Jesus.Twice as likely.Even though the before theywere all equally agnostic.But put the fear of death in them,and they run to Jesus.
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:这表明向人们提醒死亡会让他们忽视证据，使他们对所相信的事物产生偏误，他不仅仅影响到宗教，如果没有所有以许诺在某种形式下永生的任何信仰制度，无论是否有名或有孩子甚至带民族主义形式，承诺你能成为伟大的整体中的一员生活下去。这样的偏误塑造了人类的历史。
en:Now, this shows that reminding people of deathbiases them to believe, regardless of the evidence,and it works not just for religion,but for any kind of belief systemthat promises immortality in some form,whether it&#39;s becoming famousor having childrenor even nationalism,which promises you can liveon as part of a greater whole.This is a bias that has shapedthe course of human history.
时间： 6:08
zh-cn:目前，在这偏误背后有超过400多项研究被称之为恐惧管理理论，这个理论很简单，我们发展出我们的世界观。即我们告诉自己一个关于时间和我们所在地方的故事，以便帮助我们管理对死亡的恐惧。而这些永生的故事有上千种不同的表现形式，但我相信在这些多样化的面目下实际只有四种基本形式是这些永生故事都有的。并且我们能发现他们在历史中不断重复，仅仅只有细微的差异用来反应当时的语言。下面我会简要介绍这四种永生故事的基本形式，并且我希望让你们知道在各个文化或在不同时代中使用当时的语言传播的方式。
en:Now, the theory behind this biasin the over 400 studiesis called terror management theory,and the idea is simple. It&#39;s just this.We develop our worldviews,that is, the stories we tell ourselvesabout the world and our place in it,in order to help us managethe terror of death.And these immortality storieshave thousands of different manifestations,but I believe that behind the apparent diversitythere are actually just four basic formsthat these immortality stories can take.And we can see them repeating themselvesthroughout history, just with slight variationsto reflect the vocabulary of the day.Now I&#39;m going to briefly introduce these fourbasic forms of immortality story,and I want to try to give you some senseof the way in which they&#39;re retold by each cultureor generationusing the vocabulary of their day.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:第一个故事是最简单的。我们想要逃避死亡，并且梦想着这身躯能永久留存在世上是第一个最简单的永生故事，一开始听起来有些难以置信，但事实上，在人类历史上的每一种文化都流传着一些神话或传说关于长生药或者不老泉或者能让我们一直活下去的东西。古埃及有这种传说，古巴比伦，古印度。纵观这个欧洲历史，在炼金术师的工作中可以发现它，直到今天我们依旧相信它，只不过我们使用科学的语言来讲这个故事。所以100年前，荷尔蒙被发现了，人们希望荷尔蒙治疗能使我们永葆青春和治愈疾病，现在我们则是希望干细胞，基因工程，和纳米技术。但科学能够治愈死亡的观点只是神奇的灵丹妙药故事的又一个章节，和古文明一样古老的故事。但把所有的赌注都压在寻找灵丹妙药和长生不老上面这样风险未免太大。当我们回顾整个历史所有那些在过去寻找灵丹妙药的人都有个共通点是他们都难逃一死。
en:Now, the first story is the simplest.We want to avoid death,and the dream of doing that in this bodyin this world foreveris the first and simplest kind of immortality story,and it might at first sound implausible,but actually, almost every culture in human historyhas had some myth or legendof an elixir of life or a fountain of youthor something that promises to keep us goingforever.Ancient Egypt had such myths,ancient Babylon, ancient India.Throughout European history, we find themin the work of the alchemists,and of course we still believe this today,only we tell this story using the vocabularyof science.So 100 years ago,hormones had just been discovered,and people hoped that hormone treatmentswere going to cure aging and disease,and now instead we set our hopes on stem cells,genetic engineering, and nanotechnology.But the idea that science can cure deathis just one more chapter in the storyof the magical elixir,a story that is as old as civilization.But betting everything on the idea of finding the elixirand staying alive foreveris a risky strategy.When we look back through historyat all those who have sought an elixir in the past,the one thing they now have in commonis that they&#39;re all dead.
时间： 8:28
zh-cn:所以我们需要个备用方案，精确讲叫B方案也就是第二类永生的故事，那就是复活。概念是我有这个身躯，是一个有机体。我是会死去的但不论这些，我可以再次活过来的。换句话说，我能和耶稣一样。耶稣死后，有三天在[墓里]，然后又活过来了。能够复活的这个概念不单源于东正教也属于犹太教和穆斯林的。但我们渴望去相信这个故事是深植在我们的内心而到了科学时代我们又重新将它提了出来，比如，人体冷冻。意思是当你死后，你可以把自己冷冻起来，然后，直到有一天，科技高度发达的时候，你可以把自己解冻和修复然后复活。并且有些人相信万能的神会人他们重新活过来，还有人则相信万能的科学。
en:So we need a backup plan,and exactly this kind of plan Bis what the second kind of immortality story offers,and that&#39;s resurrection.And it stays with the idea that I am this body,I am this physical organism.It accepts that I&#39;m going to have to diebut says, despite that,I can rise up and I can live again.In other words, I can do what Jesus did.Jesus died, he was three days in the [tomb],and then he rose up and lived again.And the idea that we can all beresurrected to live againis orthodox believe, not just for Christiansbut also Jews and Muslims.But our desire to believe this storyis so deeply embeddedthat we are reinventing it againfor the scientific age,for example, with the idea of cryonics.That&#39;s the idea that when you die,you can have yourself frozen,and then, at some point when technologyhas advanced enough,you can be thawed out and repaired and revivedand so resurrected.And so some people believe an omnipotent godwill resurrect them to live again,and other people believe an omnipotent scientist will do it.
时间： 9:34
zh-cn:但是对某些人，对复活的这个看法，从坟墓里爬出来，太像一部摆烂的僵尸电影。他们发现自己的身躯腐朽，也不大可能复活，无法拥有永恒的生命，所有他们有第三类型的故事，更偏向于精神上的永生故事，就是我们能够离开我们的身躯但灵魂永久长存。目前，地球上绝大多数的人认为他们是有灵魂的，这个观念是许多宗教的核心，即便是这样，在现有的形式下，在传统的形式下，灵魂的观念依旧受到了广泛欢迎，在当今的数字化时代再次提起它，比如你可以离开你的身体你的心智，你的本质，真正的你，上传到了电脑中，以化身活在乙太的世界。
en:But for others, the whole idea of resurrection,of climbing out of the grave,it&#39;s just too much like a bad zombie movie.They find the body too messy, too unreliableto guarantee eternal life,and so they set their hopes on the third,more spiritual immortality story,the idea that we can leave our body behindand live on as a soul.Now, the majority of people on Earthbelieve they have a soul,and the idea is central to many religions.But even though, in its current form,in its traditional form,the idea of the soul is still hugely popular,nonetheless we are againreinventing it for the digital age,for example with the ideathat you can leave your body behindby uploading your mind, your essence,the real you, onto a computer,and so live on as an avatar in the ether.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:但是当然，有人会怀疑说如果我们察看科学的依据，特别是神经系统科学，提及你的心智，你的本质，真正的你，非常依赖你身体上一个特别的部分，也就是，你的大脑。这样的怀疑者有着第四类型的永生的故事，那就是遗传的传说。你可以长存在世透过你遗留在世上的事物,就像古希腊战士阿基里斯，他在特洛伊的战斗中牺牲了自己的生命使他赢得了不朽的名声。追求这样的名声从古至今都一样流行，在当今的数字时代，它更容易实现。你不必要成为像阿基里斯这样的勇士或者一个伟大的国王或者英雄。你只要能上网和一只有趣的猫。（笑）但有些人希望留下后代——子孙。或是他们想要，希望成为整个整体中的一部分活下去，一个名族，或者一个家庭或者一个部落，他们的基因库。但有人会怀疑这些遗产是否真的能永久流传下去。比如，伍迪 艾伦，曾说过，“我不想活在我同胞的心里。我想活在我的公寓里。“
en:But of course there are skeptics who sayif we look at the evidence of science,particularly neuroscience,it suggests that your mind,your essence, the real you,is very much dependent on a particular partof your body, that is, your brain.And such skeptics can find comfortin the fourth kind of immortality story,and that is legacy,the idea that you can live onthrough the echo you leave in the world,like the great Greek warrior Achilles,who sacrificed his life fighting at Troyso that he might win immortal fame.And the pursuit of fame is as widespreadand popular now as it ever was,and in our digital age,it&#39;s even easier to achieve.You don&#39;t need to be a great warrior like Achillesor a great king or hero.All you need is an Internet connectionand a funny cat. (Laughter)But some people prefer to leave a more tangible,biological legacy — children, for example.Or they like, they hope, to live onas part of some greater whole,a nation or a family or a tribe,their gene pool.But again, there are skepticswho doubt whether legacyreally is immortality.Woody Allen, for example, who said,&quot;I don&#39;t want to live on inthe hearts of my countrymen.I want to live on in my apartment.&quot;
时间：11:39
zh-cn:所以那些都是四种基本的永生的故事，我试着说明这些故事如何一代一代流传着但也都大同小异以迎合当今时代的潮流。事实上这些故事不停的被传述，在不同的信仰中有着相似的形式，我觉得，我们应该对所有这些故事的真实性要有所怀疑，事实上有些人民相信一个万能的神能让他们复活还有一些人相信万能的科学能使他们复活这说明人们在确凿的证据面前并不相信永生这回事儿我们相信这些故事只是因为偏见，我们偏误去相信这些故事因为我们恐惧死亡。
en:So those are the fourbasic kinds of immortality stories,and I&#39;ve tried to give just some senseof how they&#39;re retold by each generationwith just slight variationsto fit the fashions of the day.And the fact that they recur in this way,in such a similar form butin such different belief systems,suggests, I think,that we should be skeptical of the truthof any particular version of these stories.The fact that some people believean omnipotent god will resurrect them to live againand others believe an omnipotent scientist will do itsuggests that neither are really believing thison the strength of the evidence.Rather, we believe these storiesbecause we are biased to believe them,and we are biased to believe thembecause we are so afraid of death.
时间：12:30
zh-cn:所以问题是，是否我们的人生注定生活在对恐惧的抗拒和支配，还是我们能够克服偏误？古希腊哲学家伊比鸠鲁认为我们可以克服。他主张我们对死亡的恐惧是天生的，但不是理性的。他说，”死亡对我们来说不算什么因为但我们在的时候，死亡不在，而当死亡在这里的时候，我们不在了。“这句话常被引用，但很难抓住精髓和真正的内在化，因为所谓的（不存在）是很难想象的。所以两千年之后，另一位哲学家，路德维格 维根斯坦，这样说：“死亡并非人生中的大事：我们活着不是为了经历死亡，所以”他补充到，“从这个角度来看，生命是没有终点的。“
en:So the question is,are we doomed to lead the one life we havein a way that is shaped by fear and denial,or can we overcome this bias?Well the Greek philosopher Epicurusthought we could.He argued that the fear of death is natural,but it is not rational.&quot;Death,&quot; he said, &quot;is nothing to us,because when we are here, death is not,and when death is here, we are gone.&quot;Now this is often quoted, but it&#39;s difficultto really grasp, to really internalize,because exactly this idea of being goneis so difficult to imagine.So 2,000 years later, another philosopher,Ludwig Wittgenstein, put it like this:&quot;Death is not an event in life:We do not live to experience death.And so,&quot; he added,&quot;in this sense, life has no end.&quot;
时间：13:26
zh-cn:当我还小的时候，很自然的对在空虚中被吞噬产生恐惧，但这并非理性，因为在空虚中被吞噬不是任何人会活着能够经历到的事情。
en:So it was natural for me as a childto fear being swallowed by the void,but it wasn&#39;t rational,because being swallowed by the voidis not something that any of uswill ever live to experience.
时间：13:41
zh-cn:目前，克服偏误不是那么容易的因为对死亡的恐惧已经在我们心底生根发芽但当我们了解这些恐惧是不理性的，当我们可以在台面上提出来这恐惧会无意识的让我们偏误，那么至少我们已经开始尝试去减小它对我们生活的影响。
en:Now, overcoming this bias is not easy becausethe fear of death is so deeply embedded in us,yet when we see that the fear itself is not rational,and when we bring out into the openthe ways in which it can unconsciously bias us,then we can at least startto try to minimize the influence it hason our lives.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:目前，我发现可以将生命视为一本书：书的开头和结尾都被书皮包裹着，所以我们的生命被出生和死亡所固定，即便这本书受到开头和结尾的限制，它能带我们去遥远的地方，异国的风情，奇异的冒险。即便这本书受到开头和结尾的限制，书里面的人物是不会被限制的，它们当下活出他们的故事，即便这本书被合上。书中的人物不会害怕走到最后一页。约翰 西弗不会害怕你读完《金银岛》。所以我们也应当如此。想象关于你生命的一本书，它的书皮，开头和结局和出生和死亡。而你只知道生死之间活出你生命的时刻。这不会让你对书皮之外的事产生恐惧，无论是你出生之前还是 死亡之后。你不必担心这本书有多厚，无论它是本连环画还是部史诗。唯一重要的是你活得精彩！
en:Now, I find it helps to see lifeas being like a book:Just as a book is bounded by its covers,by beginning and end,so our lives are bounded by birth and death,and even though a book islimited by beginning and end,it can encompass distant landscapes,exotic figures, fantastic adventures.And even though a book islimited by beginning and end,the characters within itknow no horizons.They only know the momentsthat make up their story,even when the book is closed.And so the characters of a bookare not afraid of reaching the last page.Long John Silver is not afraid of youfinishing your copy of &quot;Treasure Island.&quot;And so it should be with us.Imagine the book of your life,its covers, its beginning and end,and your birth and your death.You can only know the moments in between,the moments that make up your life.It makes no sense for you to fearwhat is outside of those covers,whether before your birthor after your death.And you needn&#39;t worry how long the book is,or whether it&#39;s a comic strip or an epic.The only thing that mattersis that you make it a good story.
时间：15:18
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：15:20
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
