时间： 0:12
zh-cn:接下来，我今天想谈的是一个宏观理念。其实，我认为这个构想最终会被视为上个世纪出现过的最伟大的理念那就是计算的理念现在，当然，这个理念已经带给我们所有今天所拥有的电脑科技然而，除此之外，还有更多可以计算的事物。这真是个非常深刻，非常有用，非常基本的理念而我们只是刚开始见证这个理念的作用
en:So I want to talk today about an idea. It&#39;s a big idea.Actually, I think it&#39;ll eventuallybe seen as probably the single biggest ideathat&#39;s emerged in the past century.It&#39;s the idea of computation.Now, of course, that idea has brought usall of the computer technology we have today and so on.But there&#39;s actually a lot more to computation than that.It&#39;s really a very deep, very powerful, very fundamental idea,whose effects we&#39;ve only just begun to see.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:过去30年里，我致力于研究3个大型的项目这些项目认真地将计算的理念付诸实践刚开始时我只是个年轻的物理学家运用电脑作为工具然后，我开始深入思考我可能想做的计算尝试找出可以加以演变的主数据类型以及它们尽可能自动运行的方式最终，我创立了整个架构基于符号编程等等然后创造出了Mathematica过去23年间，以逐年增长的态势我们已经为Mathematica注入了越来越多的概念和性能而且我很高兴地说这带来了很多进步在研发和教育以及其他很多方面当然，我必须承认，事实上我开发Mathematica也有个自私的原因那就是我想要用它就像伽利略在400年前想要用望远镜一样但我想了解的不是天文宇宙而是可计算空间
en:Well, I myself have spent the past 30 years of my lifeworking on three large projectsthat really try to take the idea of computation seriously.So I started off at a young age as a physicistusing computers as tools.Then, I started drilling down,thinking about the computations I might want to do,trying to figure out what primitives they could be built up fromand how they could be automated as much as possible.Eventually, I created a whole structurebased on symbolic programming and so onthat let me build Mathematica.And for the past 23 years, at an increasing rate,we&#39;ve been pouring more and more ideasand capabilities and so on into Mathematica,and I&#39;m happy to say that that&#39;s led to many good thingsin R &amp; D and education,lots of other areas.Well, I have to admit, actually,that I also had a very selfish reason for building Mathematica:I wanted to use it myself,a bit like Galileo got to use his telescope400 years ago.But I wanted to look not at the astronomical universe,but at the computational universe.
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:通常我们觉得程序是复杂的东西我们编程有很多特定的目的然而所有程序的空间又有多少呢？这里有个非常简单的程序所以呢，如果我们运行这个程序这就是我们得到的结果很简单接下来，我们稍微修改一下这个程序的规则我们便得到了另一个结果仍旧非常简单再试着改一下你就看到稍微复杂一点的东西不过如果我们把这个程序继续运行下去我们将发现，尽管我们获得的图案十分复杂但它具有有规律的结构接下来的问题是：还能发生什么？好，我们可以做个小实验来做个小的数学实验，试着找出规律
en:So we normally think of programs as beingcomplicated things that we buildfor very specific purposes.But what about the space of all possible programs?Here&#39;s a representation of a really simple program.So, if we run this program,this is what we get.Very simple.So let&#39;s try changing the rulefor this program a little bit.Now we get another result,still very simple.Try changing it again.You get something a little bit more complicated.But if we keep running this for a while,we find out that although the pattern we get is very intricate,it has a very regular structure.So the question is: Can anything else happen?Well, we can do a little experiment.Let&#39;s just do a little mathematical experiment, try and find out.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:运行我们所关注的特定总类的所有可能的程序他们被称为单元自动机你能看到这里有各种各样的图案模式大多数都很简单但是，如果你注意所有不同的图片在30号规则上你开始看见一些有趣的东西出现所以我们仔细看一下在30号规则这里就在这里我们只是按照底部非常简单的规律然而我们得到了惊人的结果这与我们过去习惯的事物完全不同而且，我必须说，当我第一次看见它的时候它让我直觉为之震惊实际上，为了理解它我们最终不得不建立一套全新的科学
en:Let&#39;s just run all possible programsof the particular type that we&#39;re looking at.They&#39;re called cellular automata.You can see a lot of diversity in the behavior here.Most of them do very simple things,but if you look along all these different pictures,at rule number 30,you start to see something interesting going on.So let&#39;s take a closer lookat rule number 30 here.So here it is.We&#39;re just following this very simple rule at the bottom here,but we&#39;re getting all this amazing stuff.It&#39;s not at all what we&#39;re used to,and I must say that, when I first saw this,it came as a huge shock to my intuition.And, in fact, to understand it,I eventually had to createa whole new kind of science.
时间： 3:07
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:这套科学是与众不同的，并且更加广义的比起已经存在的基于数学的其他科学来说在过去300年甚至更久的时间内你知道的，它总是看似神秘自然毫不费力地制造出如此多的东西让我们觉得如此复杂于是，我觉得我们已经发现了其中的奥秘这只是我们能探索的计算空间的一个样本它们都像30号规则或者像这个在知道这件事后，我们可以开始解释很多科学中长期以来的谜团不过，它也带来新的问题就像计算的不可化归性我的意思是我们曾习惯让科学帮我们预测一些事情但是像这样的事情是根本不可简化的发现它结果的唯一方法实际上就是看着它演化与之相关的便是我所谓的计算等价性原则它告诉我们即使超级简单的系统也能做极端复杂的计算不需要多先进的技术或是生物进化过程就能使得它能够做任意的计算这就是自然发生的事情随处可见有如此简单规则的东西能达此目的而且，这件事有深刻的意义涉及科学的极限概率论和控制论等在生物进程或者经济方面发挥作用还有关于宇宙中的智能关于自由意志以及创新技术的问题
en:This science is different, more general,than the mathematics-based science that we&#39;ve hadfor the past 300 or so years.You know, it&#39;s always seemed like a big mystery:how nature, seemingly so effortlessly,manages to produce so muchthat seems to us so complex.Well, I think we&#39;ve found its secret:It&#39;s just sampling what&#39;s out there in the computational universeand quite often getting things like Rule 30or like this.And knowing that starts to explaina lot of long-standing mysteries in science.It also brings up new issues, though,like computational irreducibility.I mean, we&#39;re used to having science let us predict things,but something like thisis fundamentally irreducible.The only way to find its outcomeis, effectively, just to watch it evolve.It&#39;s connected to, what I call,the principle of computational equivalence,which tells us that even incredibly simple systemscan do computations as sophisticated as anything.It doesn&#39;t take lots of technology or biological evolutionto be able to do arbitrary computation;just something that happens, naturally,all over the place.Things with rules as simple as these can do it.Well, this has deep implicationsabout the limits of science,about predictability and controllabilityof things like biological processes or economies,about intelligence in the universe,about questions like free willand about creating technology.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:从事这些科学工作很多年后我开始思考第一个令人震惊的应用程序是什么？恩，甚至我还是孩子时我就想过关于知识系统化的问题以及怎么让它变得可计算莱布尼兹之辈也已经想过这个问题在300年前但是我总是假设，为了进步，我不得不克隆出整个大脑而现在，我想的是我的科学模式意味着不一样的东西。并且，顺便提一下，我已经使Mathematica具备了超强的计算能力并且，我是公司的首席执行官，拥有大量的资源来做大型的，看似疯狂的项目。所以，我决定尝试知道在这世界上，有多少系统化的知识是我们能够计算的
en:You know, in working on this science for many years,I kept wondering,&quot;What will be its first killer app?&quot;Well, ever since I was a kid,I&#39;d been thinking about systematizing knowledgeand somehow making it computable.People like Leibniz had wondered about that too300 years earlier.But I&#39;d always assumed that to make progress,I&#39;d essentially have to replicate a whole brain.Well, then I got to thinking:This scientific paradigm of mine suggests something different —and, by the way, I&#39;ve now gothuge computation capabilities in Mathematica,and I&#39;m a CEO with some worldly resourcesto do large, seemingly crazy, projects —So I decided to just try to seehow much of the systematic knowledge that&#39;s out there in the worldwe could make computable.
时间： 5:25
zh-cn:所以，这是个大型、复杂的项目，我不完全确定它是否可行但是我很高兴地说，它现在进行的不错就在去年我们发布了第一个网络版本的Wolfram Alpha目的是提供一个专业的知识搜索引擎它为提问计算答案所以呢，我们来试试看让我们先试试简单的东西希望没问题非常好，没问题到目前为止，不错（笑声）让我们试试难一点的东西比如我们做点数学希望它能幸运的计算出结果并且试着告诉我们一些关于数学的有趣的事我们可以问他一些现实生活的事情比如，—- 让我想想 ——-西班牙的国民生产总值是多少？它应该能告诉我们现在我们能计算和它相关的事比如西班牙的国民生产总值除以， 让我想想嗯比如微软公司的收入
en:So, it&#39;s been a big, very complex project,which I was not sure was going to work at all.But I&#39;m happy to say it&#39;s actually going really well.And last year we were ableto release the first website versionof Wolfram Alpha.Its purpose is to be a serious knowledge enginethat computes answers to questions.So let&#39;s give it a try.Let&#39;s start off with something really easy.Hope for the best.Very good. Okay.So far so good.(Laughter)Let&#39;s try something a little bit harder.Let&#39;s dosome mathy thing,and with luck it&#39;ll work out the answerand try and tell us some interesting thingsthings about related math.We could ask it something about the real world.Let&#39;s say — I don&#39;t know —what&#39;s the GDP of Spain?And it should be able to tell us that.Now we could compute something related to this,let&#39;s say ... the GDP of Spaindivided by, I don&#39;t know,the — hmmm ...let&#39;s say the revenue of Microsoft.
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:想法就是我们输入一些好奇的问题不论是什么奇怪的问题所以，我们提个问题比如有关健康的问题比如，跟据实验室数据你知道的，有低密度脂蛋白浓度值是140的数据这是针对50多岁的男性我们输入这个，然后Wolfram Alpha就会使用存在的公共健康数据库来试着分析出这组数据对应哪部分人群等等或者我们可以问，让我想想国际空间站的问题
en:The idea is that we can just type this in,this kind of question in, however we think of it.So let&#39;s try asking a question,like a health related question.So let&#39;s say we have a lab finding that ...you know, we have an LDL level of 140for a male aged 50.So let&#39;s type that in, and now Wolfram Alphawill go and use available public health dataand try and figure outwhat part of the population that corresponds to and so on.Or let&#39;s try asking about, I don&#39;t know,the International Space Station.
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:结果就是Wolfram Alpha不仅在查找信息它是在实时计算国际空间站现在此刻的位置它运行的速度等等所以呢，Wolfram Alpha知道很多很多不同的事情到现在为止它几乎可以很好的涵盖了你能在一个标准图书馆中找到的知识不过，我们的目标远不止这些概括地说是要使所有的知识民主化并且试着提供所有领域中的权威资料使它能够计算人们特定问题的答案不是靠搜索其他人之前可能写下的资料而是使用内建知识来对特定问题计算新的答案
en:And what&#39;s happening here is thatWolfram Alpha is not just looking up something;it&#39;s computing, in real time,where the International Space Station is right now at this moment,how fast it&#39;s going, and so on.So Wolfram Alpha knows about lots and lots of kinds of things.It&#39;s got, by now,pretty good coverage of everything you might findin a standard reference library.But the goal is to go much furtherand, very broadly, to democratizeall of this knowledge,and to try and be an authoritativesource in all areas.To be able to compute answers to specific questions that people have,not by searching what other peoplemay have written down before,but by using built in knowledgeto compute fresh new answers to specific questions.
时间： 7:54
zh-cn:现在，当然，Wolfram Alpha是一个非常大型、长远的项目面临着众多挑战开始的时候，我们要收集数以万计的不同的事实来源和数据而且，我们建立了Mathematica自动化流水线还有知识领域专家来做这件事不过，这只是开始对于运用一些没有处理的事实和数据来解答实际问题一方面要计算另一方面要执行所有的方法、模型以及算法等等而科学以及其他领域于此已发展了数个世纪甚至从Mathematica开始这仍然是一项浩大工程至今为止，有8百万行Mathematica的代码写在Wolfram Alpha里这些代码由很多来自不同领域的专家构建
en:Now, of course, Wolfram Alphais a monumentally huge, long-term projectwith lots and lots of challenges.For a start, one has to curate a zilliondifferent sources of facts and data,and we built quite a pipeline of Mathematica automationand human domain experts for doing this.But that&#39;s just the beginning.Given raw facts or datato actually answer questions,one has to compute:one has to implement all those methods and modelsand algorithms and so onthat science and other areas have built up over the centuries.Well, even starting from Mathematica,this is still a huge amount of work.So far, there are about 8 million linesof Mathematica code in Wolfram Alphabuilt by experts from many, many different fields.
时间： 8:39
zh-cn:Wolfram Alpha中的一个最重要的想法是你可以问它问题使用普通人类语言这意味着我们必须能够接受人们输入所有的奇怪的文字并理解它们我必须说我曾觉得做到那一步相当不可能后来有了两大重要进步首先是语言学上的很多新想法来自于对计算空间的研究其次，可计算知识的实现完全地改变了如何一个人能够开始理解语言当然，现在在浩瀚的网络中有了Wolfram Alpha我们就能学习它的使用方法实际上，一直都有一个有趣的共同进化发生在Wolfram Alpha和用户之间并且，这相当鼓舞人心现在，对于任意网络搜索超过百分之80的搜索在第一时间就被成功处理。如果你看看类似iPhone应用程序的东西那被成功搜索部分就相当大了所以我对此很满意
en:Well, a crucial idea of Wolfram Alphais that you can just ask it questionsusing ordinary human language,which means that we&#39;ve got to be able to takeall those strange utterances that people type into the input fieldand understand them.And I must say that I thought that stepmight just be plain impossible.Two big things happened:First, a bunch of new ideas about linguisticsthat came from studying the computational universe;and second, the realization that having actual computable knowledgecompletely changes how one canset about understanding language.And, of course, nowwith Wolfram Alpha actually out in the wild,we can learn from its actual usage.And, in fact, there&#39;s beenan interesting coevolution that&#39;s been going onbetween Wolfram Alphaand its human users,and it&#39;s really encouraging.Right now, if we look at web queries,more than 80 percent of them get handled successfully the first time.And if you look at things like the iPhone app,the fraction is considerably larger.So, I&#39;m pretty pleased with it all.
时间： 9:43
zh-cn:但是，从很多角度看我们仍然处于Wolfram Alpha开发的初级阶段。我的意思是，每件事情的规模都在扩大我们也变得更有信心你能期待看到Wolfram Alpha技术在越来越多的地方使用既能使用公共数据，比如网站又能使用私人数据给个人和公司等等提供服务我觉得Wolfram Alpha其实是一个全新的计算方法我们可以称之基于知识的计算这种计算方法，不仅可以使用原始数据还能使用大量的内建知识而且，一个能做这样计算的工具真的能够改变传递可计算事物的理论无论在网络上或者是其他地方
en:But, in many ways,we&#39;re still at the very beginning with Wolfram Alpha.I mean, everything is scaling up very nicelyand we&#39;re getting more confident.You can expect to see Wolfram Alpha technologyshowing up in more and more places,working both with this kind of public data, like on the website,and with private knowledgefor people and companies and so on.You know, I&#39;ve realized that Wolfram Alpha actually gives onea whole new kind of computingthat one can call knowledge-based computing,in which one&#39;s starting not just from raw computation,but from a vast amount of built-in knowledge.And when one does that, one really changesthe economics of delivering computational things,whether it&#39;s on the web or elsewhere.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:我们现在处于一个很有意思的状态一方面，我们拥有Mathematica这个软件它有精确性，正规性以及大规模设计仔细的功能网络用几行代码就能做很多事情我来展示几个例子这是Mathematica编程中很小的一段代码这里是我们整合大量不同的功能这行，我们就能建立一个简单的用户界面它允许我们做一些有趣的事情如果你继续的话，那就出现一些更复杂的程序这些程序在运行算法之类的程序并且建立用户界面等等不过，这是非常精准的东西它精准的命令需要精准的正式编程语言才能让Mathematica知道要干什么
en:You know, we have a fairly interesting situation right now.On the one hand, we have Mathematica,with its sort of precise, formal languageand a huge networkof carefully designed capabilitiesable to get a lot done in just a few lines.Let me show you a couple of examples here.So here&#39;s a trivial piece of Mathematica programming.Here&#39;s something where we&#39;re sort ofintegrating a bunch of different capabilities here.Here we&#39;ll just create, in this line,a little user interface that allows us todo something fun there.If you go on, that&#39;s a slightly more complicated programthat&#39;s now doing all sorts of algorithmic thingsand creating user interface and so on.But it&#39;s something that is very precise stuff.It&#39;s a precise specification with a precise formal languagethat causes Mathematica to know what to do here.
时间：11:17
zh-cn:另一方面，我们拥有Wolfram Alpha包含了世界上所有杂乱无章的东西以及人类语言等内建的知识体系如果把他们放一起，会发生什么呢？我觉得真是非常棒Mathematica里有Wolfram Alpha，你就能编写精准的程序来接触真实世界的数据这里有个很简单的例子你可以只是输入模棱两可的话语试着让Wolfram Alpha来分析出你想研究的内容我们在这儿试试看不过事实上我想最激动人心的事是它给了我们一个机会来全民编程我的意思是，任何人都能用日常用语说话关键在于，Wolfram Alpha能分析出什么样的精准代码能符合人们要求的事情然后显示出样例来帮助人们找到想要的答案由此建立越来越多的精准程序所以，有时候，Wolfram Alpha能够立即处理整个问题然后仅仅回馈你能用来计算的整个大程序这里有个大网站这里，我们收集了很多关于教育等各种事物的样例我来展示一个例子，例如这个这只是可计算文档的其中一个样例它是相当小的一段Mathematica代码能在这里运行
en:Then on the other hand, we have Wolfram Alpha,with all the messiness of the worldand human language and so on built into it.So what happens when you put these things together?I think it&#39;s actually rather wonderful.With Wolfram Alpha inside Mathematica,you can, for example, make precise programsthat call on real world data.Here&#39;s a real simple example.You can also just sort of give vague inputand then try and have Wolfram Alphafigure out what you&#39;re talking about.Let&#39;s try this here.But actually I think the most exciting thing about thisis that it really gives one the chanceto democratize programming.I mean, anyone will be able to say what they want in plain language.Then, the idea is that Wolfram Alpha will be able to figure outwhat precise pieces of codecan do what they&#39;re asking forand then show them examples that will let them pick what they needto build up bigger and bigger, precise programs.So, sometimes, Wolfram Alphawill be able to do the whole thing immediatelyand just give back a whole big program that you can then compute with.Here&#39;s a big websitewhere we&#39;ve been collecting lots of educationaland other demonstrations about lots of kinds of things.I&#39;ll show you one example here.This is just an example of one of these computable documents.This is probably a fairly smallpiece of Mathematica codethat&#39;s able to be run here.
时间：12:43
zh-cn:我们再缩小一下所以，有了这个新版科学存在一个通用的办法来用它革新技术吗？使用物理材料我们过去常常遍步世界并发现特定材料用于特定的技术目的等等。结果，我们可以做很多差不多的事情在这个可计算的世界中。有无穷无尽的程序资源在那儿。面临的挑战是如何让它们供人类使用举个例子，一些像30号规则的东西结果可以是很好的随机生成器。其他简单的程序是很好的模型来处理自然世界或者社交活动的问题再比如，Wolfram Alpha和Mathematica确实包含很多算法我们通过搜索计算空间找到它们再比如，我们返回到这里这个已经变成相当的流行在作曲家间通过搜索计算空间来找出音乐模式某种意义上说，我们可以使用计算空间来获得大量的个性化创造。我希望我们能够使用Wolfram Alpha来运行常规的发明和发现的过程并且来找出所有令人惊讶的事情这些事情没有一个工程师也没有一个渐进式演化的过程能够找出
en:Okay. Let&#39;s zoom out again.So, given our new kind of science,is there a general way to use it to make technology?So, with physical materials,we&#39;re used to going around the worldand discovering that particular materialsare useful for particulartechnological purposes.Well, it turns out we can do very much the same kind of thingin the computational universe.There&#39;s an inexhaustible supply of programs out there.The challenge is to see how toharness them for human purposes.Something like Rule 30, for example,turns out to be a really good randomness generator.Other simple programs are good modelsfor processes in the natural or social world.And, for example, Wolfram Alpha and Mathematicaare actually now full of algorithmsthat we discovered by searching the computational universe.And, for example, this — if we go back here —this has become surprisingly popularamong composersfinding musical forms by searching the computational universe.In a sense, we can use the computational universeto get mass customized creativity.I&#39;m hoping we can, for example,use that even to get Wolfram Alphato routinely do invention and discovery on the fly,and to find all sorts of wonderful stuffthat no engineerand no process of incremental evolution would ever come up with.
时间：14:01
zh-cn:这些最终导向一个终极问题有没有可能使这个计算空间与我们的物理世界相融合？也许存在简单的规则一些简单的程序，对于我们的物理世界来说。物理的历史让我们相信宇宙的内部规则一定是很复杂的但是在计算空间中我们已经看到那些规则惊人的简单却能够产生非常丰富和复杂的结果所以，这可能是我们的物理世界的本质吗？如果这个宇宙的规则很简单不可避免的，他们一定是十分抽象以及初级远远运行于时间、空间之下这种运行方法很难表现某种东西但是至少，从其中一类大量的事例中我们能把这个宇宙想成某种网络当它变得足够大时它表现得像一个连续空间某种程度上就像很多分子表现得像流体一样。之后，宇宙进化就要依靠应用这个网络中不断更新的简单规则。并且，每一个可能的规则，在某种程度上说，对应一个候选空间
en:Well, so, that leads to kind of an ultimate question:Could it be that someplace out there in the computational universewe might find our physical universe?Perhaps there&#39;s even some quite simple rule,some simple program for our universe.Well, the history of physics would have us believethat the rule for the universe must be pretty complicated.But in the computational universe,we&#39;ve now seen how rules that are incredibly simplecan produce incredibly rich and complex behavior.So could that be what&#39;s going on with our whole universe?If the rules for the universe are simple,it&#39;s kind of inevitable that they have to bevery abstract and very low level;operating, for example, far belowthe level of space or time,which makes it hard to represent things.But in at least a large class of cases,one can think of the universe as beinglike some kind of network,which, when it gets big enough,behaves like continuous spacein much the same way as having lots of moleculescan behave like a continuous fluid.Well, then the universe has to evolve by applyinglittle rules that progressively update this network.And each possible rule, in a sense,corresponds to a candidate universe.
时间：15:08
zh-cn:事实上，我之前从来没有展示过不过，这里有几个候选空间我正在研究的一些是没希望的空间完全不能演化，包括很多缺点，例如没有空间的观念没有时间的概念，没有物质或者类似的其他问题但是，我近几年发现的最令人激动的事是你其实不必深入在计算空间中你就能发现与我们的物理空间明显不同的候选空间问题在这里：任何有可能的候选空间不可避免地充满了计算不可化归性，这意味着简化它的具体表现是极其困难的并且不易判断它是否符合我们的物理世界。几年前，我非常兴奋地发现有些候选空间具有极其简单的规则却能成功再现狭义相对论和广义相对论以及重力而且至少还给出了量子力学的暗示。所以，我们将会发现整个物理学吗？我不确定。但是我觉得现在不去尝试的话真的是令人羞愧的。
en:Actually, I haven&#39;t shown these before,but here are a few of the candidate universesthat I&#39;ve looked at.Some of these are hopeless universes,completely sterile,with other kinds of pathologies like no notion of space,no notion of time, no matter,other problems like that.But the exciting thing that I&#39;ve found in the last few yearsis that you actually don&#39;t have to go very farin the computational universebefore you start finding candidate universesthat aren&#39;t obviously not our universe.Here&#39;s the problem:Any serious candidate for our universeis inevitably full of computational irreducibility.Which means that it is irreducibly difficultto find out how it will really behave,and whether it matches our physical universe.A few years ago, I was pretty excited to discoverthat there are candidate universes with incredibly simple rulesthat successfully reproduce special relativity,and even general relativity and gravitation,and at least give hints of quantum mechanics.So, will we find the whole of physics?I don&#39;t know for sure,but I think at this point it&#39;s sort ofalmost embarrassing not to at least try.
时间：16:19
zh-cn:虽然这不是件简单的事。一方面要发展技术一方面要建立架构这架构至少要达到现有物理学的深度。而且，我不确定去整合整件事情最好的方法是什么。建立一个团队，运营它，还是提供奖励等等。但是，我今天要告诉你我要把这个项目做完，要看看在这10年内我们是否最终可以掌握我们宇宙的规则并且知道我们宇宙在所有可能的宇宙空间的位置并且，能够在Wolfram Alpha中输入“宇宙理论”让它告诉我们结果。
en:Not an easy project.One&#39;s got to build a lot of technology.One&#39;s got to build a structure that&#39;s probablyat least as deep as existing physics.And I&#39;m not sure what the best way to organize the whole thing is.Build a team, open it up, offer prizes and so on.But I&#39;ll tell you, here today,that I&#39;m committed to seeing this project done,to see if, within this decade,we can finally hold in our handsthe rule for our universeand know where our universe liesin the space of all possible universes ...and be able to type into Wolfram Alpha, &quot;the theory of the universe,&quot;and have it tell us.
时间：16:53
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：16:56
zh-cn:我已经在计算的这个想法上做了超过30年了研究打造工具，创立方法，将专业知识编写成数百万行的代码在服务器中收获结果等等。每过去一年我都意识到计算的想法是多么的强大。它已引领我们走过很长一段路但是还有更多可以做的事情。从科学的根基到技术的极限再到人类条件的定义，我觉得，计算注定是定义我们的未来的想法
en:So I&#39;ve been working on the idea of computationnow for more than 30 years,building tools and methods and turning intellectual ideasinto millions of lines of codeand grist for server farms and so on.With every passing year,I realize how much more powerfulthe idea of computation really is.It&#39;s taken us a long way already,but there&#39;s so much more to come.From the foundations of scienceto the limits of technologyto the very definition of the human condition,I think computation is destined to bethe defining idea of our future.
时间：17:27
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:29
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:43
zh-cn:Chris Anderson（克里斯 安德森）：太令人惊讶了。别走，我有问题。
en:Chris Anderson: That was astonishing.Stay here. I&#39;ve got a question.
时间：17:47
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:53
zh-cn:说实在的，那真的是很惊人的演讲。您能用一两句话概括这种思考方式如何能在某些点上整合一些如弦论或者人们在思考的一些关于根本宇宙解释的问题？
en:So, that was, fair to say, an astonishing talk.Are you able to say in a sentence or twohow this type of thinkingcould integrate at some pointto things like string theory or the kind of things that people think ofas the fundamental explanations of the universe?
时间：18:10
zh-cn:Stephen Wolfram（斯蒂芬.沃尔夫勒姆）：好的。那部分我们视作真理的物理学就像标准物理模型我尝试做得更好的是再现标准物理模型或者说明它是错的。人们在近25年里已尝试的事情有关弦论等等都是非常有趣的探索这些探索已经尝试回到标准模型，却还不能到那一步。我猜我的研究中的一些极端简化可能和弦论中的某些研究有相当的相似度不过，那是复杂的数学我还不知道有些是怎么回事情。
en:Stephen Wolfram: Well, the parts of physicsthat we kind of know to be true,things like the standard model of physics:what I&#39;m trying to do better reproduce the standard model of physicsor it&#39;s simply wrong.The things that people have tried to do in the last 25 years or sowith string theory and so onhave been an interesting explorationthat has tried to get back to the standard model,but hasn&#39;t quite gotten there.My guess is that some great simplifications of what I&#39;m doingmay actually have considerable resonancewith what&#39;s been done in string theory,but that&#39;s a complicated math thingthat I don&#39;t yet know how it&#39;s going to work out.
时间：18:46
zh-cn:克里斯 安德森： Benoit Mandlebrot也在观众席中。他也展示了如何复杂可以从简单的初始状态演化过来。这和你的研究相关吗？
en:CA: Benoit Mandelbrot is in the audience.He also has shown how complexitycan arise out of a simple start.Does your work relate to his?
时间：18:54
zh-cn:史蒂芬：我觉得有。我看过Benoit Mandlebrot的研究，觉得像这个领域的基础贡献Benoit致力于复杂图样，分型等等的研究，在那些方面，结构就像树型之类的东西，有大分支，能产生小分支和更小分支那也是一种方法来到达真正的复杂。我觉得像30号规则的单元自动机将我们带到了不同的水平上。事实上，更精确地说，它能将我们带到不同的水平因为他们看似能够达到复杂状态这种复杂是前所未有的...
en:SW: I think so.I view Benoit Mandelbrot&#39;s workas one of the founding contributionsto this kind of area.Benoit has been particularly interestedin nested patterns, in fractals and so on,where the structure is somethingthat&#39;s kind of tree-like,and where there&#39;s sort of a big branch that makes little branchesand even smaller branches and so on.That&#39;s one of the waysthat you get towards true complexity.I think things like the Rule 30 cellular automatonget us to a different level.In fact, in a very precise way, they get us to a different levelbecause they seem to be things that arecapable of complexitythat&#39;s sort of as great as complexity can ever get ...
时间：19:40
zh-cn:我可以持续不断地讲下去，但是我不打算去做。
en:I could go on about this at great length, but I won&#39;t. (Laughter) (Applause)
时间：19:43
zh-cn:克里斯：史蒂芬，谢谢你。
en:CA: Stephen Wolfram, thank you.
时间：19:45
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
