时间： 0:11
zh-cn:各位下午好！我不是农民。
en:Good afternoon.I am not a farmer.
时间： 0:15
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:16
zh-cn:我不是。我是一位家长，一个居民，也是一名教师。这就是关于我的全部。这些年来，我逐渐意识到我现在的学生是第三代移民他们越长越大身体也越来越差除了这些复杂的问题最近我才知道，我所看到的所谓的“学习障碍者”他们的当中的70%，如果不是因为出生前营养不良都将会不会有这个问题
en:I&#39;m not. I&#39;m a parent, I&#39;m a resident and I&#39;m a teacher.And this is my world.And along the way I&#39;ve started noticing —I&#39;m on my third generation of kids —that they&#39;re getting bigger.They&#39;re getting sicker.In addition to these complexities,I just learned that 70 percent of the kids that I seewho are labeled learning disabled would not have beenhad they had proper prenatal nutrition.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:我所在社区的情况很简单。他们看上去是这样的。孩子们不应该这样成长，也不应该看到如此的事。另外，我所在的社区，越来越多的人失去了工作，我们需要从外面引进能源难怪一些人几乎把南布朗克斯称之为沙漠，但是在你见过的六年级的学生中，我是最老的一个，所以我每天醒来都充满了无比的热情，我现在就想和大家分享这热情。说到这里，我来先跟你们说说我相信的一点，我相信孩子不应该离开他们所在的社区，不应该去更好的社区生活、学习、赚钱。
en:The realities of my community are simple. They look like this.Kids should not have to grow up and look at things like this.And as jobs continue to leave my community,and energy continues to come in, be exported in,it&#39;s no wonder that really some people refer to the South Bronx as a desert.But I&#39;m the oldest sixth grader you&#39;ll ever meet,so I get up every day with this tremendous amount of enthusiasmthat I&#39;m hoping to share with you all today.And with that note, I come to you with this beliefthat kids should not have to leave their communitiesto live, learn and earn in a better one.
时间： 1:07
zh-cn:让我来讲个故事给你们听。这块墙砖是我在外面看到的，现在把它带进来。这个故事还得从三个人讲起。一位疯狂的老师，就是左边那个，实际上也就是我，我特地打扮了一番。多亏了我太太，非常感谢你的好西装。我热情的镇长，还有一个名叫乔治-鄂文的人，他来自绿色生活科技（公司），他曾经帮我上过课，还邀请我参加这项专利技术的研发。但一切都从教室里的种子开始，在我那儿，教室是这样的。今天我在此，希望我能够把目光放得长远。这就是关键所在。
en:So I&#39;m here to tell you a story about meand this wall that I met outside, which I&#39;m now bringing inside.And it starts with three people.The crazy teacher — that&#39;s me on the left,I dress up pretty, thank you, my wife, I love you for getting a good suit —my passionate borough presidentand a guy named George Irwin from Green Living Technologieswho helped me with my classand helped me get involved with this patented technology.But it all starts with seeds in classrooms,in my place, which looks like this.And I&#39;m here today hoping that my reach will exceed my grasp.And that&#39;s really what this is all about.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:就是这样让人佩服的孩子们开始了一切，他们起早贪黑。所有这些孩子都学习IEP（自我学习）或ELL（英语学习）其中大部分人还存在诸多障碍，大多数人无家可归，许多都被寄养几乎我所有的学生都生活在贫困之中，但是我们从第一天上课开始就种下了这些种子，这就是我班上的情况。你们看这些孩子们对种子多专注呀。然后你会看到，这些种子长成了作物，遍布布朗克斯，就像这样。
en:And it starts with incredible kids like this,who come early and stay late.All of my kids are either IEP or ELL learners,most come with a lot of handicaps,most are homeless and many are in foster care.Almost all of my kids live below poverty.But with those seeds, from day one, we are growing in my classroom,and this is what it looks like in my classroom.And you see how attentive these kids are to these seeds.And then you notice that those seeds become farms across the Bronx that look like this.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:不过，还是那句话，我不是农民，我是一名老师。我不喜欢除草和那些把腰都累断的劳动。所以我想找到一个办法，能把这样一件伟事分解成若干这样的小事，于是我把它带到课堂上，让那些残疾的孩子们种植，那些不想外出的孩子就可以做这件事，每个人都可以做。于是我打了个电话给乔治-鄂文，你猜怎么着？他到我教室，我们在教室里砌了一堵可食用的墙。我们还把这个种植活动跟真实的学习经验结合，还结合了个性化的学习，你瞧，在我们的共同努力下，纽约市第一堵可食用的墙就诞生了！
en:But again, I am not a farmer. I&#39;m a teacher.And I don&#39;t like weeding, and I don&#39;t like back-breaking labor.So I wanted to figure out how I could get this kind of successinto something small, like this,and bring it into my classroom so that handicapped kids could do it,kids who didn&#39;t want to be outside could do it,and everyone could have access.So I called George Irwin, and what do you know?He came to my class and we built an indoor edible wall.And what we do is we partner it with authentic learning experiences,private-based learning.And lo and behold, we gave birth tothe first edible wall in New York City.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:如果你饿了，不妨起来吃一点。你现在就可以。我的孩子们就像吃草的牛一样，但是我们才刚刚开始，孩子们非常喜欢这一技术，所以我们就一起打了电话给乔治，我们说：“我们想要学更多东西！”现在，彭博市长，非常感谢您，我们不再需要许可才去工作了，这些工作只带来杯水车薪和刻薄的合同。可对你随时有空
en:So if you&#39;re hungry, get up and eat.You can do it right now. My kids play cow all the time.Okay? But we were just getting started,the kids loved the technology,so we called up George and we said, &quot;We gotta learn more!&quot;Now, Mayor Bloomberg, thank you very much, we no longer need work permits,which comes with slices and bonded contractors — we&#39;re available for you —
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:我们决定把它推广到波士顿。我的学生们，虽然他们来自美国最穷的地方，却成了第一批竖起这座绿色之墙的人这堵墙由计算机设计，还能用到现实生活中的各种工具，足足有21层楼这么高。如果你乐意来参观的话，它就位于约翰-汉考克大楼楼顶。在我们学校附近，我们也开始在其它学校里竖起这样的墙，就像这样，上面装点了很多彩灯，还是LED的灯，21世纪的技术。你知道吗？我们赚了21世纪钱，这是一件多么有突破性的事情呀！
en:We decided to go to Boston.And my kids, from the poorest congressional district in America,became the first to install a green wall,designed by a computer, with real-live learning tools,21 stories up — if you&#39;re going to go visit it,it&#39;s on top of the John Hancock building.But closer to home, we started installing these walls in schoolsthat look like this with lighting like that,real LED stuff, 21st-century technology.And what do you know? We made 21st century money,and that was groundbreaking. Wow!
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:这就是我的收获。那么这些食物能做什么呢？当然是用它做菜啦！这些是我宝贝学生们做的宝贝香肠，外加塑料叉子，我们把这些香肠卖到咖啡厅，我们继续种植，养活老师们。而且我们有幸成为了国家认可的、最年轻的劳动力，获得了布鲁克斯镇长的认可。
en:This is my harvest, people.And what do you do with this food? You cook it!And those are my heirloom students making heirloom sauce,with plastic forks, and we get it into the cafeteria,and we grow stuff and we feed our teachers.And that is the youngest nationally certifiedworkforce in America with our Bronx Borough President.
时间： 3:39
zh-cn:然后呢？后来又发生了什么？后来我遇到了一群很棒的人，像你们这样，他们邀请我们去汉普顿，所以我称之为“从南布鲁克斯到南汉普顿”于是我们开始在那里打造这样的屋顶，我们来自贫困的街区，却在塑造这样的景致！很棒！不是吗？吸引了很多人的目光，所以今年夏天我们又受到了邀请，而且我们还搬到了汉普顿，我们花3,500美金一周租了一所房子，我们学会了如何冲浪，当你学会做这些事的时候——我的孩子们现在就在推广这项技术当你可以造出这样的一个房顶架在这样的一个房子之上的时候并且用的是这样的景天草，这就是新的绿色涂鸦。
en:And what&#39;d we do then? Well, I met nice people like you,and they invited us to the Hamptons.So I call this &quot;from South Bronx to Southampton.&quot;And we started putting in roofs that look like this,and we came in from destitute neighborhoodsto start building landscape like this, wow! People noticed.And so we got invited back this past summer,and we actually moved into the Hamptons,payed 3,500 dollars a week for a house, and we learned how to surf.And when you can do stuff like this —These are my kids putting in this technology,and when you can build a roof that looks like thaton a house that looks like thatwith sedum that looks like this,this is the new green graffiti.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:你也许会不明白，究竟像这样一堵墙除了改变我们的庭院和想法，还能真正给孩子们什么？好吧，让我来告诉你们。它帮我遇到了一群神奇的承包商，比如艾伦伯格服务机构的吉姆-艾伦伯格，从此我们开始获利翻番，因为吉姆明白这群孩子们，也就是我未来的农业劳动者们，确实有超凡的天赋，可以帮助他建造出人们买得起的房子，让纽约人居有定所，而且就在他们自己的街区里。这也就是我的学生们现在在做的事，也养活了他们自己。
en:So, you may wonder what does a wall like thisreally do for kids, besides changing landscapes and mindsets?Okay, I&#39;m going to tell you what it does.It gets me to meet incredible contractors like this,Jim Ellenberger from Ellenberger Services.And this is where it becomes true triple bottom line.Because Jim realized that these kids, my future farmers,really had the skills he needed to build affordable housingfor New Yorkers, right in their own neighborhood.And this is what my kids are doing, making living wage.
时间： 4:43
zh-cn:现在，如果你也像我一样，住在一幢楼里，楼里有七个人，他们没有工作，但是管理者上百万美金，我没有一百万。但是你需要修一个厕所，或者，修什么架子，我需要等六个月等到预约的人来帮忙，他们通常开得比我好很多的车。这就是这个经济世界的魅力所在。但是我的学生们现在已经有执照了，也可以参与经营。这是我一个开始创业学生，他也是他们家唯一开了银行账户的人。这位移民学生是他家里唯一一个用ATM的人。这绝对是帮助他们提高了生活质量，因为我们选取了被遗弃的最贫困的街区，把它们变成了这样。
en:Now, if you&#39;re like me, you live in a building, there are seven guysout of work looking to manage a million dollars.I don&#39;t have it. But if you need a toilet fixedor, you know, some shelving, I gotta wait six monthsfor an appointment with someone who drives a much nicer car than me.That&#39;s the beauty of this economy.But my kids are now licensed and bonded in trade.And that&#39;s my first student to open up, the first in his family to have a bank account.This immigrant student is the first one in his family to use an ATM.And this is the true triple bottom line,because we can take neighborhoods that were abandoned and destituteand turn them into something like this with interiors like this.
时间： 5:14
zh-cn:哇！不错吧！人们被吸引了过来。人们开始注意我们。CNN也打电话来，我们很高兴地邀请他们来参观我们的农场。之后，洛克菲勒中心说：NBC，你可以把这条新闻放到大屏幕上吗？我们高兴极了！但是我们的孩子们来自美国最贫困的地方，他们终于可以建立起高达30英尺或者15英尺的墙，自己设计，自己种植，而且这墙还在纽约市的市中心，这绝对是西班牙语中所说的“是的！绝对可能！“的时刻。你要有疑问，我只能说这绝对是学生做的。
en:Wow! People noticed. And notice they did.So CNN called, and we were delighted to have them come to our farmer&#39;s market.And then when Rockefeller Center said, NBC,could you put this thing up on the walls? We were delighted.But this, I show you, when kids from the poorest congressional district in Americacan build a 30-foot by 15-foot wall,design it, plant it and install it in the heart of New York City,that&#39;s a true &quot;sí se puede&quot; moment.Really scholastic, if you ask me.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:但是这不是来自盖特的图片，这是我拍的布鲁克斯镇长的照片，为我的孩子们在他家发表演讲，而不是在监狱里他让学生感受到自己是那儿的一部分，这是我们的州议员古斯塔沃-里维拉和鲍勃-彼得，他们来到我的课堂，让孩子们知道到自己很重要，当布鲁克斯镇长出现的时候，以及州议员们来到课堂之际，说真的，布鲁克斯对我们的态度大为改观。现在的我们自信能干，充满期待与毅力以从前不敢想的方式散播着我们的智慧，让世界更多元本来议员在公众中变得知名以后，他可能会因此减肥。其实我也一样。而且，我告诉大家，我在做这些事业，孩子们也是！
en:But this is not a Getty image.That&#39;s a picture I took of my Bronx Borough President,addressing my kids in his house, not the jailhouse,making them feel a part of it.That&#39;s our State Senator Gustavo Rivera and Bob Bieder,coming to my classroom to make my kids feel important.And when the Bronx Borough President shows upand the State Senator comes to our class,believe you me, the Bronx can change attitudes now.We are poised, ready, willing and ableto export our talent and diversity in ways we&#39;ve never even imagined.And when the local senator gets on the scale in publicand says he&#39;s got to lose weight, so do I!And I tell you what, I&#39;m doing it and so are the kids.
时间： 6:13
zh-cn:于是，之后名人们也加入到这个行列之中。普路德斯-皮特简直不敢相信我们在种什么，罗娜-萨斯来拜访我们，还给我们捐书。我们养活了老人们。当我们意识到自己在为南布鲁克斯种粮食同时也是国际社会关心的事，我的学生们甚至还代表南布鲁克斯参加首届国际绿色屋顶大会。多棒啊！
en:Okay? And then celebrities started.Produce Pete can&#39;t believe what we grow.Lorna Sass came and donated books.Okay? We&#39;re feeding seniors.And when we realized that we were growing for food justice in the South Bronx,so did the international community.And my kids in the South Bronx were repped inthe first international green roof conference.And that&#39;s just great.
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:除了一些关于当地的情况？我们和Group Up运动的人员去拜会了这位女士，艾维斯-理查德简直令人难以置信！通过她，我的学生们，那些被剥夺权利的人们，还有被边缘化的人们，终于得以在纽约市公立学校铺开100个园圃。是不是改变了他们的生活？！
en:Except what about locally?Well, we met this woman, Avis Richards, with the Ground Up Campaign.Unbelievable! Through her, my kids,the most disenfranchised and marginalized,were able to roll out 100 gardens to New York City public schools.That&#39;s triple bottom line! Okay?
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:去年今日，我收到纽约医学院的邀请，我认为设计一个强装健康纽约的概念合情合理特别是我们需要的资源都不用花钱。所以，太感谢你们了，我爱他们。他们向我介绍了纽约市健康战略联盟，这些也是免费的资源，可千万别浪费了他们。你知道吗？六个月之后，我的学校和学生们就得到了嘉奖，这是第一个授予高中的杰出健康校园奖。也是纽约市最绿色的课堂。但是更重要的是，我的学生们学会了收获学会了奉献。我们拿那些从农场上赚来的钱，买了礼物送给无家可归的人，还有世界上需要帮助的穷人。这就是我们所开始的奉献行动。从那时起，我明白了要让美国变得更绿色从钱袋开始，然后再到心，再然后到意识。
en:A year ago today, I was invited to the New York Academy of Medicine.I thought this concept of designing a strong and healthy New Yorkmade sense, especially when the resources were free.So thank you all and I love them.They introduced me to the New York City Strategic Alliance for Health,again, free resources, don&#39;t waste them.And what do you know? Six months later,my school and my kids were awarded the first everhigh school award of excellence for creating a healthy school environment.The greenest class in New York City.But more importantly is my kids learned to get,they learned to give.And we took the money that we made from our farmer&#39;s market,and started buying gifts for the homelessand for needy around the world.So we started giving back.And that&#39;s when I realized that the greening of Americastarts first with the pockets, then with the heartand then with the mind.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:我们曾经支持那些事，现在一如既往。感谢上帝，华尔街三一教堂注意到了我们，因为它们帮助我们造就了“绿色布鲁克斯机”，我们现在有3000台了。这些机器究竟干嘛呢？它教会孩子们如何重新规划它们所在的社区，他们在这些地方长大，他们可以将它想象成这样。我的学生们，接受了培训，获得认证，马，你获得了税收减免，多亏了彭博市长，于是得以把这样的社区，改造成现在的模样这对我来说，意味着另一个真切的“是的！绝对可能！“的时刻。
en:So we were onto something, and we&#39;re still onto something.And thank God Trinity Wall Street noticed,because they gave us the birth of Green Bronx Machine.We&#39;re 3,000 strong right now.And what does it really do?It teaches kids to re-vision their communities,so when they grow up in places like this, they can imagine it like this.And my kids, trained and certified —Ma, you get the tax abatement. Thank you, Mayor Bloomberg —can take communities that look like this and convert them into things that look like that,and that to me, people, is another true &quot;sí se puede&quot; moment.
时间： 8:01
zh-cn:现在，这些从何开始呢？就从学校开始。再也不会有街头打篮球的小子，小混混他们因为西兰花结成队伍，因为他们喜欢的蔬菜在一起，于是你们就有值得期待的东西。这些是我们未来的美国农民，在141大街的布鲁克公园公园长大，它是美国移民最为多样的社区。当最顽强的小家伙们学会如何这样种菜的时候，水果的丰收也是在意料之中了。我爱这一切！孩子们也爱。我们在那些被焚毁的街区里搭起帐篷，这是真正的一切皆有可能的时刻！布鲁克公园又为上百人提供食物，而且无需食品券或指纹。在美国最贫困的地区，也是移民最多的地方——我们做到了这一切！比赛尔公园把食物载入史诗，把孩子们带入一个他们从不想像的经济体制。
en:Now, how does it start? It starts in schools.No more little Knicks and little Nets.Group by broccoli, group by your favorite vegetable,something you can aspire to.Okay? And these are my future farmers of America,growing up in Brook Park on 141st Street,the most migrant community in America.When tenacious little ones learn how to garden like this,it&#39;s no wonder we get fruit like that.And I love it! And so do they.And we&#39;re building teepees in neighborhoods that were burning down.And that&#39;s a true &quot;sí se puede&quot; moment.And again, Brook Park feeds hundreds of peoplewithout a food stamp or a fingerprint.The poorest congressional district in America,the most migratory community in America, we can do this.Bissel Gardens is cranking out food in epic proportions,moving kids into an economy they never imagined.
时间： 8:45
zh-cn:现在，在彩虹之上的，我的朋友们，就是我们的南布鲁克斯的热土。我们正为此耕耘，从何开始呢？来看看约斯对细节的注重，感谢上帝，奥玛懂得胡萝卜是地上种出来的，而不是从超市的货架上来的，或者从防弹玻璃或发泡胶里。亨利得知环保是件好事，我也知道。当你让他们感到吃惊时，你也同时拓宽了他们的词汇量。更重要的是，当你把大一点的孩子们混在一起的时候，你会从中发现大白胖小子。这很酷。你在同伴间塑造了一种责任感，这很奇妙。
en:Now, somewhere over the rainbow, my friends,is the South Bronx of America. And we&#39;re doing it.How does it start? Well, look at Jose&#39;s attention to detail.Thank God Omar knows that carrots come from the ground,and not aisle 9 at the supermarketor through a bullet-proof window or through a piece of styrofoam.And when Henry knows that green is good, so do I.And when you expand their palates, you expand their vocabulary.And most importantly, when you put big kids together with little kids,you get the big fat white guy out of the middle, which is cool,and you create this kind of accountability amongst peers, which is incredible.
时间： 9:16
zh-cn:演讲快没时间了，我得快一点儿。这是我们一周之内孩子们的收获；这是我们的绿色涂鸦。这就是我们所做的。谁知，这一切都是布鲁克斯镇的荣耀和奖赏，没有什么比看到孩子们帮植物授粉让我更高兴的了！其实我是个懂得的保护孩子的家长。不过这些孩子把一小块南瓜田建在了火车之上。我们正在为富人设计玉米田，我们也成为玉米之子，在福特汉姆路上打造出一片农地，让人们能意识到，我们还利用垃圾中的瓶子围成窗户。
en:God, I&#39;m going to run out of time, so I&#39;ve gotta keep it moving.But this is my weekly paycheck for kids; that&#39;s our green graffiti.This is what we&#39;re doing.And behold the glory and bounty that is Bronx County.Nothing thrills me more than to see kids pollinating plants instead of each other.I gotta tell you, I&#39;m a protective parent.But those kids are the kids who are now puttingpumpkin patches on top of trains.We&#39;re also designing coin ponds for the rich and affluent.We&#39;re also becoming children of the corn,creating farms in the middle of Fordham Road for awarenessand window bottles out of garbage.
时间： 9:46
zh-cn:如今我已经不期望每个孩子都成为农民了，但是我期望各位去读一读，写一些关于这些的文章、博客，提供一些优质的客户服务。我希望他们都参与其中，每个人都参与！这就是我们神奇的教室，这是那些食物。它们最终去往哪儿呢？直达餐盘，直至餐厅。更重要的是，供给当地的避难所，那里的孩子一天只有1到2顿饭。我们孩子继续推进，我们农场里也不让孩子们弄坏他们的耐克乔丹鞋。在他们的生活里，价值一百万的花园和所有神奇的装置无处不在。
en:Now I don&#39;t expect every kid to be a farmer,but I expect you to read about it, write about it, blog about it, offer outstanding customer service.I expect them to be engaged, and man, are they!So that&#39;s my incredible classroom, that&#39;s the food.Where does it go? Zero miles to plate, right down into the cafeteria.Or more importantly, to local shelters,where most of our kids are getting one to two meals a day.And we&#39;re stepping it up.No Air Jordans were ever ruined on my farm.And in his day, a million dollar gardens and incredible installations.
时间：10:11
zh-cn:让我再来给你讲讲吧，观众朋友们。这是一个美妙的瞬间。黑色的田地、棕色的土壤、有毒废弃的地方、战场……我们在向大家证明：布鲁克斯哪里都可以种植，哪怕在水泥上都可以。我们接受鲜花的预定。我让烤蛋糕的小商小户们汗颜。我们开始接受订单，已经排到春天。这些都是从种子慢慢长出来的。我们尽可能的学习。当你接受所有背景的孩子们时，就像这是一件如此特别的事情，我们确实在创造一个时刻，
en:Let me tell you something, people.This is a beautiful moment.Black field, brown field, toxic waste field, battlefield —we&#39;re proving in the Bronx that you can grow anywhere, on cement.And we take orders for flowers. I&#39;m putting the bake sale to shame.We take orders now. I&#39;m booking for the spring.And these were all grown from seeds. We&#39;re learning everything.And again, when you can take kids from backgrounds as diverseas this to do something as special as this,we&#39;re really creating a moment.
时间：10:39
zh-cn:你可能会问一些关于这些孩子们的事，参与率从40%提升至93%，无需任何原始投入，也无需贷款。我第一批学生现在已经在念大学了，而且能赚钱养活自己。其余的孩子们也将于今年六月毕业。快乐的孩子们，快乐的家庭，快乐的同事们。令人称奇的人们啊。所有的荣耀和赏赐都来自于布鲁克斯镇。
en:Now, you may ask about these kids.Forty percent attendance to 93 percent attendance.All start overage and under-credit.They are now, my first cohort is all in college, earning a living wage.The rest are scheduled to graduate this June.Happy kids, happy families, happy colleagues.Amazed people. The glory and bounty that is Bronx County.
时间：11:01
zh-cn:我们来说说薄荷。我的薄荷哪儿去了？我在课堂上种了七种薄荷。莫黑脱，你们都知道吧？之后我回去特勒潘。但是，可以理解，这激发了我学术的热情。女士们先生们，我得快点儿，但是请理解：这个镇让给我们习惯穿宽松、嘻哈的裤子，打着时髦、潮流的节拍，这现在已经成为有机食品的源泉。我种了2万5千磅蔬菜，我也是在培养”有机“市民，懂得奉献的孩子们。所以它帮我们从这样变成了这样。帮我们自己自足，十八个月就收回投资了。而且我们还给员工们付了足够工资和福利，他们以便士为生，我们付给他们美元。
en:Let&#39;s talk about mint. Where is my mint?I grow seven kinds of mint in my class.Mojitos, anybody? I&#39;ll be at Telepan later.But, understand this is my intellectual Viagra.Ladies and gentlemen, I gotta move quick, but understand this:The borough that gave us baggy pants and funky fresh beatsis becoming home to the organic ones.My green [unclear] 25,000 pounds of vegetables,I&#39;m growing organic citizens, engaged kids.So help us go from this to this.Self-sustaining entities, 18 months return on investment,plus we&#39;re paying people living wage and health benefits,while feeding people for pennies on the dollar.
时间：11:35
zh-cn:马丁-路德-金曾说：应该给予人民自尊。在此，我敦促大家，我亲爱的美国同胞们，让我们在纽约一起把美国建设得更加富强。其实很简单。只要贡献你的激情。真的很容易。请看看这两段视频。一段关于我们受到白宫的邀请，另一段关于我们最近的一段代言。
en:Martin Luther King said that people need to be uplifted with dignity.So here in New York, I urge you, my fellow Americans,to help us make America great again.It&#39;s simple. Share your passion.It&#39;s real easy. Go see these two videos, please.One got us invited to the White House, one&#39;s a recent incarnation.
时间：11:52
zh-cn:更重要的是，我们要让这些垃圾食品在学校消失。要让他们立刻消失。这些，各位都可以做得到。不要让孩子们走进这样的店。给他们吃健康的食物。尤其是，如果你可以从我们教室的墙上摘一些的话就更好了！可美味了！学习良好行为，让购物车更加绿色环保。大一点的孩子应该喜欢草莓和香蕉。教会他们企业家精神。感谢上帝我们在纽约这个城里种蔬菜！让他们学做饭。让他们做一些跟烹饪相关的事。更关键的是，关爱他们。没有什么像无条件的爱一样有用
en:And most importantly, get the biggest bully out of schools.This has got to go tomorrow.People, you can all do that.Keep kids out of stores that look like this.Make them a healthy plate,especially if you can pick it off the wall in your own classroom — delicioso!Model good behavior. Get them to a green cart.Big kids love strawberries and bananas.Teach them entrepreneurship. Thank God for GrowNYC.Let them cook. Great lunch today, let them do culinary things.But most importantly, just love them.Nothing works like unconditional love.
时间：12:23
zh-cn:我的好朋友科密特说：做到环保不容易。但事实并非如此。我所来的地方，孩子们都可以买35种口味的卷饼，每天任何时候都可以，放冰淇林的冰柜里都装满了麦芽糖酿的酒。我亲爱的朋友玛约拉-卡特曾经告诉我，我们一无所有，只有得到，不再会有失去。因此，在我们追求的每时每刻，大胆地寄予希望，我请各位开始做些什么吧！我请各位开始做些什么吧！
en:So, my good friend Kermit said it&#39;s not easy being green.It&#39;s not. I come from a place where kids can buy35 flavors of blunt wrap at any day of the moment,where ice cream freezers are filled with slushy malt liquor.Okay? My dear friend Majora Carter once told me,we have everything to gain and nothing to lose.So here, and at a time when we&#39;ve gone fromthe audacity to hope to hope for some audacity,I urge you to do something.I urge you to do something.
时间：12:50
zh-cn:就是现在，我们都像蝌蚪一样，但是我希望大家都成为大大的青蛙，能够一跃而起，不管跃向左右、向上、或居中请加入我们的行列。我觉得自己充满活力。请帮我用掉一点活力。我们什么都可以做。在这条路上，请停留片刻闻闻花香，特别是和你的学生一起种植。
en:Right now, we&#39;re all tadpoles,but I urge you to become a big frog and take that big, green leap.I don&#39;t care if you&#39;re on the left, on the right, up the middle, wherever.Join me. Use — I&#39;ve got a lot of energy. Help me use it.We can do something here.And along the way, please take time to smell the flowers,especially if you and your students grew them.
时间：13:09
zh-cn:我是史蒂夫-瑞茨。这是绿色布鲁克斯的机器。在此，感谢我的妻子、家人和学生。也谢谢各位今日来到这里，也谢谢我的同事们一直信任、支持我。我们将继续种植下去，开创一番新的经济。谢谢大家！祝大家享受每一天。我是史蒂夫-瑞茨
en:I&#39;m Steve Ritz, this is Green Bronx Machine.I&#39;ve got to say thank you to my wife and family, for my kids,thank you for coming every day, and for my colleagues,believing and supporting me.We are growing our way into a new economy.Thank you, God bless you and enjoy the day. I&#39;m Steve Ritz.
时间：13:23
zh-cn:“是的！绝对可能！“
en:Sí se puede!
时间：13:26
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
