时间： 0:11
zh-cn:在过去十年中，天文学，宇宙学，生物学领域取得的进步确实令人震惊。以至现在，我们对宇宙及其运作有了更深入的了解，而许多在座的各位是无法想象的。然而，我注意到另一件事，世界确实是瞬息万变，人们开始发现嗯...是的，每个星系中心都存在着一个黑洞。科普类作家和编辑——我不用应该说科普类作家的，应该是那些写着关于科学的人们——还有编辑，会在一天辛苦的工作结束后，坐下来喝一两杯啤酒，聊一聊这些让人无法置信的科学结论，聊一聊宇宙的运行。
en:The advances that have taken place in astronomy,cosmology and biology, in the last 10 years,are really extraordinary —to the point where we know more about our universe and how it worksthan many of you might imagine.But there was something else that I&#39;ve noticedas those changes were taking place, as people were starting to find out thathmm ... yeah, there really is a black hole at the center of every galaxy.The science writers and editors — I shouldn&#39;t say science writers,I should say people who write about science —and editors would sit down over a couple of beers,after a hard day of work, and start talking aboutsome of these incredible perceptions about how the universe works.
时间： 1:05
zh-cn:而这类的谈话总不免停滞于一个怪异的问题，至少我认为那很奇怪，就是世界将如何瞬间毁灭。这也是我今天所要讲的内容。（笑声）啊，你们笑吧，你们这些笨蛋。（笑声）
en:And they would inevitably end up in what I thought was a very bizarre place,which is ways the world could end very suddenly.And that&#39;s what I want to talk about today. (Laughter)Ah, you laugh, you fools. (Laughter)
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:台下观众：如果世界就在这几分钟毁灭，也许讲座可以早点结束？
en:(Voice: Can we finish up a little early?)
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:（笑声）是啊，我们时间宝贵！一开始我并不相信什么世界末日的，但通过对许多可能性的质疑，我慢慢地开始严肃地对待它们。之后，911事件发生了，我想，天呐我怎么能去TED没有人想听这个呀。911后更没人想听了！正因为这个，我又跟很多人，很多科学家们讨论过，也许还存在其他的问题，其中一位神经科学家跟我说，&quot;我认为可以解决你所说的那些危机的方法有很多，我想到麦克昨天的演讲，他母亲告诉他，你有了问题，就不可能没有方法解决。&quot;所以，我们开始去寻找那些方法，阻止世界的毁灭，瞧，我们找到了。我联想到布什总统的一个记者会，那是几周前的事了。安德鲁，可以播放吗？
en:(Laughter) Yeah, we need the time!Stephen Petranek: At first, it all seemed a little fantastical to me, but after challenging a lot of these ideas,I began to take a lot of them seriously. And then September 11 happened,and I thought, ah, God,I can&#39;t go to the TED conference and talk about how the world is going to end.Nobody wants to hear that. Not after this!And that got me into a discussion with some other people, other scientists,about maybe some other subjects, and one of the guys I talked to,who was a neuroscientist, said,&quot;You know, I think there are a lot of solutions to the problems you brought up,&quot;and reminds me of Michael&#39;s talk yesterdayand his mother saying you can&#39;t have a solution if you don&#39;t have a problem.So, we went out looking for solutions to ways that the world might end tomorrow,and lo and behold, we found them.Which leads me to a videotape of a President Bushpress conference from a couple of weeks ago.Can we run that, Andrew?
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:布什总统：“为了维护我们的安全，保卫自由，要付出再大的代价，也值得。”
en:President George W. Bush: Whatever it costs to defend our security,and whatever it costs to defend our freedom, we must pay it.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:我完全赞同。明年，布什总统准备花费2万亿美元对付恐怖主义分子，而2万亿的联邦预算将再一次加速赤字增长——但是恐怖主义并不是唯一威胁着我们的因素。很多严重的灾难一触即发，而我们一如往常地忽略它们，就如我们对待恐怖主义和9月11日所发生的事情一样
en:SP: I agree with the president.He wants two trillion dollars to protect us from terrorists next year,a two-trillion-dollar federal budget, which will land us back into deficit spending real fast.But terrorists aren&#39;t the only threat we face.There are really serious calamities staring us in the eyethat we&#39;re in the same kind of denial aboutthat we were about terrorism, and what could&#39;ve happened on September 11.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:所以我建议，如果我们从那预算的2.13万亿元拿出100亿元出来相当于预算的百分之一或百分之二同时给我要谈的这十个问题，每个问题分配10亿元那么我告诉你，这些问题很大部分都能被解决。剩下的也可处理。所以我希望，这些东西很吸引我，我承认对我来说，这些就如理查德的蟑螂理论般
en:I would propose, therefore, that if we took 10 billion dollarsfrom that 2.13 trillion dollar budget —which is two one hundredths of that budget —and we doled out a billion dollars to each one of these problemsI&#39;m going to talk to you about, the vast majority could be solved,and the rest we could deal with. So, I hope you find this both fascinating —I&#39;m fascinated by this kind of stuff, I gotta admit —to me these are Richard&#39;s cockroaches.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:但我也希望——因为我相信在座的你们可以改变世界我希望你们能够在今天的演讲中有所收获等到你们有机会做出有影响力的事的时候能够把钱花在这几点上
en:But I also hope, because I think the people in this room can literally change the world,I hope you take some of this stuff away with you,and when you have an opportunity to be influential,that you try to get some heavy-duty money spent on some of these ideas.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:所以让我们开始吧。第十点：我们正失去存活下去的信心。尽管我们生活在现代医学的神话时代：我们比20年前更健康了，而且全世界的人们能得到更好的药物—但是精神上，我们却分崩离析世界卫生组织（WHO）目前估计全球有五分之一的人临床上被诊断患有抑郁症。同时世卫也强调抑郁症是人类有史以来面对的最大疾病。
en:So let&#39;s start. Number 10: we lose the will to survive.We live in an incredible age of modern medicine.We are all much healthier than we were 20 years ago.People around the world are getting better medicine —but mentally, we&#39;re falling apart.The World Health Organization now estimatesthat one out of five people on the planet is clinically depressed.And the World Health Organization also says that depression is thebiggest epidemic that humankind has ever faced.
时间： 4:50
zh-cn:不久以后，基因学上的突破或更好的药物会让我们觉得活到100岁也是正常。将来出生的女性——平均将会活到83岁我们的生命长度几乎每过一年就会增加一岁。现在伴随着老龄化的问题却是超过65岁的人属于最容易自杀的人群。
en:Soon, genetic breakthroughs and even better medicineare going to allow us to think of 100 as a normal lifespan.A female child born tomorrow, on average — median — will live to age 83.Our life longevity is going up almost a year for every year that passes.Now the problem with all of this, getting older,is that people over 65 are the most likely people to commit suicide.
时间： 5:19
zh-cn:所以解决之道是什么？我们的国家并非真正具有精神健康的保险而这个——（鼓掌）——这真是个犯罪。98%的人患有抑郁症我指的是真正严重的抑郁症我就有个患上严重抑郁症的朋友抑郁症实际上在现成的药物和技术下是可以治愈的。但通常是聊天治疗和药物双管齐下。单纯的药物治疗是无法起作用的，尤其是对那些临床诊断为抑郁症的人来说你应该去看精神科医师——或者心理医生，放10元钱开始你的治疗就像你手臂割到去看医生一样。这真是荒谬。
en:So, what are the solutions?We don&#39;t really have mental health insurance in this country,and it&#39;s — (Applause) — it&#39;s really a crime.Something like 98 percent of all people with depression,and I mean really severe depression— I have a friend with stunningly severe depression— this is a curable disease, with present medicine and present technology.But it is often a combination of talk therapy and pills.Pills alone don&#39;t do it, especially in clinically depressed people.You ought to be able to go to a psychiatrist or a psychologist,and put down your 10-dollar copay, and get treated,just like you do when you got a cut on your arm. It&#39;s ridiculous.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:其次，药品公司并不会研究真正复杂并对精神起显著效用的药物。我们知道，大多数精神疾病都有可处理的生物成分。而且我们比10年前更了解我们的大脑。我们需要来自联邦政府的积极支持，通过像国家卫生研究所（NIH）及国家科学基金会（NSF）等机构帮助药品公司研制出一些高级的治疗精神的药物。
en:Secondly, drug companies are not going to develop really sophisticatedpsychoactive drugs. We know that most mental illnesses have a biologicalcomponent that can be dealt with.And we know just an amazing amount more about the brain now than wedid 10 years ago. We need a pump-push from the federal government,through NIH and National Science — NSF —and places like that to start helping the drug companiesdevelop some advanced psychoactive drugs.
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:我们继续下一个话题。第九点——别笑——外星人入侵地球。10年前，全世界没有一个天文学家，亦或极少数宇航员——会告诉你除了我们的太阳系还有其他类地星球存在。但1995年我们发现了3个，现在数目已达80个，这样算我们几乎是每个月发现2-3个。我们所发现的这些星球，就在我们生活的银河系的小小角落。这就意味着整个银河系有着上百万的这样的星球。正如Carl Sagan多年来坚持，却被世人嘲笑的观点，全宇宙一定有不计其数这样的星球。不久NASA将会发送4-5个天文望远镜到木星那里星尘比较少，比较容易发现类地星球。因为以我们现有技术是无法在地球亲眼看到或侦测到这些星球。现在越来越显而易见的观点是，全宇宙除了地球以外不存在任何生命，并此类生命离地球很近这一观点已变得非常遥远。而其中外星人并不比我们聪明也是自欺欺人。
en:Moving on. Number nine — don&#39;t laugh — aliens invade Earth.Ten years ago, you couldn&#39;t have found an astronomer —well, very few astronomers — in the world who would&#39;ve told you thatthere are any planets anywhere outside our solar system.1995, we found three. The count now is up to 80 —we&#39;re finding about two or three a month.All of the ones we&#39;ve found, by the way, are in this little, teeny, tiny corner where we live,in the Milky Way. There must be millions of planets in the Milky Way,and as Carl Sagan insisted for many years,and was laughed at for it, there must be billions and billions in the universe.In a few years, NASA is going to launch four or five telescopes out to Jupiter,where there&#39;s less dust, and start looking for Earth-like planets,which we cannot see with present technology, nor detect.It&#39;s becoming obvious that the chance that life does not exist elsewhere in the universe,and probably fairly close to us, is a fairly remote idea.And the chance that some of it isn&#39;t more intelligent than ours is also a remote idea.
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:请记住，我们只不过是拥有进化的文明——以及工业文明的物种，如果你算时间那也只有200年。尽管我每次去庞培，我总是惊讶于他们在每条街拐弯处都拥有类似于我们现在麦当劳似的连锁店。所以我并不清楚自从公元79年之后我们的文明究竟进步了多少，但有可能——我非常相信这点，并且我虽然不相信外星人——我也不相信现在地球上有外星人亦或任何类似于外星人的生物。但非常有可能的是，我们将来会面对一支比我们文明更发达的种族。
en:Remember, we&#39;ve only been an advanced civilization —an industrial civilization, if you would — for 200 years.Although every time I go to Pompeii, I&#39;m amazed that they hadthe equivalent of a McDonald&#39;s on every street corner, too.So, I don&#39;t know how much civilization really has progressed since AD 79,but there&#39;s a great likelihood. I really believe this,and I don&#39;t believe in aliens, and I don&#39;t believe there are any aliens on the Earthor anything like that. But there&#39;s a likelihood that we will confront acivilization that is more intelligent than our own.
时间： 8:15
zh-cn:那么，会发生什么事呢？比如它们来了为了氢吸光了我们的海洋？像打苍蝇一样打我们，就如我们去热带雨林砍伐树木时拍打苍蝇一样。回顾我们的历史，就如现代物理学家吉拉德 奥尼尔（Gerard O&#39;Neill)所说，“先进的西方文明对所有其接触到的原始文明产生了毁灭性的影响，即使作了很多努力保护及维持原始文明也是徒劳。”如果外星人来访，我们就是那原始文明。
en:Now, what will happen? What if they come to, you know,suck up our oceans for the hydrogen?And swat us away like flies, the way we swat away flies when we go intothe rainforest and start logging it.We can look at our own history. The late physicist Gerard O&#39;Neill said,&quot;Advanced Western civilization has had a destructive effecton all primitive civilizations it has come in contact with,even in those cases where every attempt was madeto protect and guard the primitive civilization.&quot;If the aliens come visiting, we&#39;re the primitive civilization.
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:所以解决措施是什么？（笑声）感谢上帝你们都看的懂！这看上去也许很荒谬。但我们历史上干过这事的不少，并且现在也是如此准备的。准备好计划与一个具有高级文明的物种谈判需要多少精力和金钱呢？
en:So, what are the solutions to this? (Laughter)Thank God you can all read!It may seem ridiculous, but we have a really lousy history of anticipating things like thisand actually being prepared for them.How much energy and money does it take to actually have a planto negotiate with an advanced species?
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:第二，我将会着重讲这点——我们必须成为放眼宇宙的太空使用国。我们必须清楚地球不是永久之计，太阳也不会永远存在——如果我们想要人类物种长存，我们不得不殖民银河系。这一点上，并不难理解。（鼓掌）这么做也帮助了我们，如果我们遇上了一个高度文明的物种，亦或我们自己想变成高度文明的物种。第八点——
en:Secondly — and you&#39;re going to hear more from me about this —we have to become an outward-looking, space-faring nation.We have got to develop theidea that the Earth doesn&#39;t last forever,our sun doesn&#39;t last forever.If we want humanity to last forever, we have to colonize the Milky Way.And that is not something that is beyond comprehension at this point.(Applause)It&#39;ll also help us a lot, if we meet an advanced civilization along the way,if we&#39;re trying to be an advanced civilization. Number eight —
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:台下声音：史蒂夫，这就是我TED听完后要做的事。（笑声和掌声）
en:(Voice: Steve, that&#39;s what I&#39;m doing after TED.) (Laughter) (Applause)
时间：10:01
zh-cn:你明白了真理！这份工作属于你了！
en:SP: You&#39;ve got it! You&#39;ve got the job.
时间：10:04
zh-cn:第八点：生态系统的崩溃。去年7月的科学杂志19名海洋学家联名发表了一篇非常，非常特殊的文章——这篇文章并不是研究报告，而是篇冗长的文章。文章里这么写道：我们一直不停的在观测海洋。我们想告诉世人的是，海洋系统现在并非是陷入困境，而是濒临崩溃。地球上其他生态系统也是处于非常，非常危险的境界。我们现在正处于物种大量灭绝的时代，数据是恐龙灭绝数据的1万倍。在过去的20年，夏威夷已经失去了其25%的独有物种，加利福尼亚预计在以后的40年内会失去25%的物种。亚马逊雨林的某处，会有这样一种树，己剩最后一棵。你把那棵树砍了，整个雨林会作为同一个生态系统崩溃。就有一棵树是这样的存在。结果也会如此。当这个生态系统崩溃之时，可能影响到另一个更大的生态系统，比如我们的大气层。所以我们该怎么办呢？
en:Number eight: the ecosystem collapses.Last July, in Science, the journal Science,19 oceanographers published a very, very unusual article.It wasn&#39;t really a research report; it was a screed.They said, we&#39;ve been looking at the oceans for a long time now,and we want to tell you they&#39;re not in trouble, they&#39;re near collapse.Many other ecosystems on Earth are in real, real danger.We&#39;re living in a time of mass extinctions that exceeds the fossil recordby a factor of 10,000.We have lost 25 percent of the unique species in Hawaii in the last 20 years.California is expected to lose 25 percent of its species in the next 40 years.Somewhere in the Amazon forest is the marginal tree.You cut down that tree, the rain forest collapses as an ecosystem.There&#39;s really a tree like that out there. That&#39;s really what it comes to.And when that ecosystem collapses, it could take a major ecosystem with it,like our atmosphere. So, what do we do about this? What are the solutions?
时间：11:10
zh-cn:我们现在在进行一些生态系统模拟试验。生态系统的问题是，我们对它们知之甚少，以至于我们不知道它们陷入困境，等到我们发现的时候就已将太迟了。我们必须在它们陷入困境之前预知，并能够给予模型可行的解决之道。配与我们现有的电脑技术——这就是我说的正在进行的模型试验，但需要金钱。国家科学基金会我们国家大多数花在科学上的资金来自于联邦政府，以要么这样要么那样的方式。你知道项目也有优先顺序的吧？国家科学基金会需要人站出来表示，挽救生态系统才是最重要的这事他们需要考虑的事情之一。
en:There is some modeling of ecosystems going on now.The problem with ecosystems is that we understand them so poorly,that we don&#39;t know they&#39;re really in trouble until it&#39;s almost too late.We need to know earlier that they&#39;re getting in trouble,and we need to be able to pump possible solutions into models.And with the kind of computing power we have now,there is, as I say, some of this going on, but it needs money.National Science Foundation needs to say — you know,almost all the money that&#39;s spent on science in this countrycomes from the federal government, one way or another.And they get to prioritize, you know?There are people at the National Science Foundationwho get to say, this is the most important thing.This is one of the things they ought to be thinking more about.
时间：11:53
zh-cn:其次，我们必须在地球上建造大面积的生物多样性保护区。并开始波及其他地区。在过去的4，5年间，乔治海岸（Georges Bank)，还是Newfoundland 的Grand Banks曾做过一个试验。这是一个禁止捕鱼的保护地。在半径为两百英里的地区都不准人们捕鱼。结果令人吃惊的事情发生了——几乎所有的鱼都回来了，并以惊人的速度繁殖。我们应该开始在全球范围内都推广这类保护区。我们要有不允许人类捕猎的地域。我们要说亚马逊雨林必须在20年里禁止砍伐。让它复苏吧，在我们重新开始砍伐之前。（鼓掌）
en:Secondly, we need to create huge biodiversity reserves on the planet,and start moving them around.There&#39;s been an experiment for the last four or five years on the Georges Bank,or the Grand Banks off of Newfoundland. It&#39;s a no-take fishing zone.They can&#39;t fish there for a radius of 200 miles.And an amazing thing has happened: almost all the fish have come back,and they&#39;re reproducing like crazy. We&#39;re going to have to start doing thisaround the globe. We&#39;re going to have to have no-take zones.We&#39;re going to have to say, no more logging in the Amazon for 20 years.Let it recover, before we start logging again.(Applause)
时间：12:30
zh-cn:第七点：粒子加速器的事故灾难大家都还记得Ted Kaczynski吧, 那个邮包炸弹恐怖分子？让他发狂的其中一件事就是粒子加速器实验可能会失去控制产生连锁反应从而毁灭世界。但不管你信不信，很多冷静的物理学家也有着同样的想法。今年春，在长岛的布鲁克黑文实验室将会有个用粒子加速器创造黑洞的实验。研究人员希望能够创造出非常小的黑洞并自行消失。（笑声）我希望他们是对的。（笑声）
en:Number seven: particle accelerator mishap.You all remember Ted Kaczynski, the Unabomber?One of the things he raved about was that a particle accelerator experimentcould go haywire and set off a chain reaction that would destroy the world.A lot of very sober-minded physicists, believe it or not,have had exactly the same thought.This spring — there&#39;s a collider at Brookhaven, on Long Island —this spring, it&#39;s going to have an experiment in which it creates black holes.They are expecting to create little, tiny black holes.They expect them to evaporate. (Laughter)I hope they&#39;re right. (Laughter)
时间：13:12
zh-cn:其他的加速器实验——明年夏天在CERN（欧洲原子核组织）还有一个——为了创造出奇异夸克团。这就像反物质，当它们撞击到其他物质就毁灭一切。大多数物理学家表示我们现拥有的加速器并不足够强大到能够创造出使我们忧虑的黑洞或奇异夸克团，也许他们是对的。但是——全世界范围内，在日本，加拿大——有着美国正在实行此项试验的传言。我们关闭了一个逐渐扩大的实验。但传言是我们将要建造非常大型的加速器。我们应该怎么办呢，解决之道是什么？
en:Other collider experiments — there&#39;s one that&#39;s going to take place next summerat CERN — have the possibility of creating something called strangelets,which are kind of like antimatter. Whenever they hit other matter, they destroy itand obliterate it. Most physicists say that the accelerators we have noware not really powerful enough to create black holes and strangeletsthat we need to worry about, and they&#39;re probably right.But, all around the world, in Japan, in Canada,there&#39;s talk about this, of reviving this in the United States.We shut one down that was going to be big.But there&#39;s talk of building very big accelerators.What can we do about this? What are the solutions?
时间：13:49
zh-cn:我们已经在监控着实验进展。我们需要粒子物理学家来给我们建议，来给我们解说粒子物理及粒子物理学的发展方向。但同时我们也需要以外人的眼光审视和监视这些实验的进展。
en:We&#39;ve got the fox watching the henhouse here.We need to — we need the advice of particle physicists to talk about particle physicsand what should be done in particle physics,but we need some outside thinking and watchdoggingof what&#39;s going on with these experiments.
时间：14:07
zh-cn:其次，我们有着一个围绕地球的天然实验室。地球周围环绕着磁场，并持续被高能量粒子，例如质子撞击着。在我看来——我们并没有花费足够的时间观测这个天然实验场并研究出首先在地球上做什么才是安全的实验。
en:Secondly, we have a natural laboratory surrounding the Earth.We have an electromagnetic field around the Earth,and it&#39;s constantly bombarded by high-energy particles, like protons.And in my opinion, we don&#39;t spend enough timelooking at that natural laboratory and figuring out first what&#39;s safe to do on Earth.
时间：14:28
zh-cn:第六点：生物科技灾难这是我最喜爱的话题之一，因为我们已经在BT（苏云金芽胞杆菌）玉米上做了好几个类似的实验。BT 玉米能够自行产生杀虫剂来消灭其天敌玉米螟。你可能听说过它——又名Starling，特别是这些玉米卷在一年半前从超市里下架的时候。这种农产品在美国只能用来喂养动物，但却进入了人类的食物链，应该有人清楚这是非常容易的。事情发生在几个月以前，在墨西哥这个BT玉米和其他转基因玉米都属于非法的地区，有人发现野生的玉米基因中出现了BT玉米基因。我们猜想，在墨西哥玉米已开始改变。这里是玉米的起源地，是玉米基因多样性的储存地。这就带来了最近才淡去的怀疑理论，那就是超级杂草和超级害虫将有一天由于生物科技而霸占全球，并在理论上迅速毁掉全球的食物供应。
en:Number six: biotech disaster.It&#39;s one of my favorite ones, because we&#39;ve done several stories on Bt corn.Bt corn is a corn that creates its own pesticide to kill a corn borer.You may of heard of it — heard it called StarLink,especially when all those taco shells were taken out of the supermarketsabout a year and a half ago.This stuff was supposed to only be feed for animals in the United States,and it got into the human food supply, and somebody should&#39;ve figured outthat it would get in the human food supply very easily.But the thing that&#39;s alarming is a couple of months ago, in Mexico,where Bt corn and all genetically altered corn is totally illegal,they found Bt corn genes in wild corn plants.Now, corn originated, we think, in Mexico.This is the genetic biodiversity storehouse of corn.This brings back a skepticism that has gone away recently,that superweeds and superpests could spread around the world,from biotechnology, that literally could destroy the world&#39;s food supplyin very short order.
时间：15:37
zh-cn:所以我们该怎么做呢？我们应该像对待核设施一样对待生物科技，怀有等同的审慎之心。就是这么简单，因为这是一个令人惊讶的无人管辖的领域。当Starling玉米灾难发生的时候，环境保护局（EPA）却和食品及药物管理局（FDA）就谁有权负责这事，负责此事的什么部分争吵起来，吵了几个月都没个结果。这真是疯了！
en:So, what do we do about that?We treat biotechnology with the same scrutiny we apply to nuclear power plants.It&#39;s that simple. This is an amazingly unregulated field.When the StarLink disaster happened, there was a battle between theEPA and the FDA over who really had authority, and over what parts of this,and they didn&#39;t get it straightened out for months. That&#39;s kind of crazy.
时间：16:01
zh-cn:第5点，也是我最喜爱的话题之一：地球磁极颠倒。信不信由你，这件事每几十万年发生一次，而且在历史上已发生过很多次——北极变成了南极，南极变成了北极，然后再次颠倒。但在这颠倒的过程中，我们将会失去环绕地球的磁场大概100年。这就意味着宇宙射线和颗粒会直接从太阳向我们涌来。我们失去了地球磁场的保护——那么结果是，我们将被烤焦。（笑声）
en:Number five, one of my favorites: reversal of the Earth&#39;s magnetic field.Believe it or not, this happens every few hundred thousand years,and has happened many times in our history.North Pole goes to the South, South Pole goes to the North, and vice versa.But what happens, as this occurs,is that we lose our magnetic field around the Earth over the period of about 100 years,and that means that all these cosmic rays and particlesthat are to come streaming at us from the sun,that this field protects us from, are — well, basically, we&#39;re gonna fry. (Laughter)
时间：16:43
zh-cn:台下人声：史蒂夫我在楼下有些额外的帽子。
en:(Voice: Steve, I have some additional hats downstairs.)
时间：16:47
zh-cn:所以我们该如何是好？噢，顺便提一下，磁极颠倒已经大大推迟了——上次磁极颠倒的时间是78万年前。所以，48万年前本该再发生一次的。噢，还有一件事——科学家认为地球的磁场现在已经削弱了5%。所以也许我们已经在经历磁场巨变了。想要测出地球健康程度的一个麻烦在于——从60年前开始我们就没有好的气像数据。其他事物例如臭氧层的数据更是少之又少。
en:SP: So, what can we do about this? Oh, by the way, we&#39;re overdue.It&#39;s been 780,000 years since this happened.So, it should have happened about 480,000 years ago.Oh, and here&#39;s one other thing.Scientists think now our magnetic field may be diminished by about five percent.So, maybe we&#39;re in the throes of it.One of the problems of trying to figure out how healthy the Earth is,is that we have — you know, we don&#39;t have good weather data from 60 years ago,much less data on things like the ozone layer.
时间：17:22
zh-cn:所以，解决之道很简单。在6，7年内网上将充斥着大量的廉价火箭研究资源，能够使我们更为便宜的到达低气层。我们可以利用汽车的排气管制造臭氧层。这并不难——只是臭氧而已。如果你把整个臭氧层拿到地球表面观看，你会发现它只有两便士一样厚，每平方英寸14镑重。看来并不多。我们得学习如何修补和补充地球的臭氧层。（掌声）
en:So, there&#39;s a fairly simple solution to this.There&#39;s going to be a lot of cheap rocketry that&#39;s going to come onlinein about six or seven yearsthat gets us into the low atmosphere very cheaply.You know, we can make ozone from car tailpipes.It&#39;s not hard: it&#39;s just three oxygen atoms.If you brought the entire ozone layer down to the surface of the Earth,it would be the thickness of two pennies, at 14 pounds per square inch.You don&#39;t need that much up there.We need to learn how to repair and replenish the Earth&#39;s ozone layer.(Applause)
时间：17:58
zh-cn:第四点：巨型太阳耀斑。太阳耀斑是来自太阳的巨大磁能爆发伴随着高速的原子粒冲击地球。迄今为止我们的大气层及磁场已很好地保护我们远离这些危险。时不时的，太阳耀斑给我们的通讯和电力造成很大影响甚至破坏。但令人警醒的是，近来天文学家通过对与太阳相似的恒星研究发现其中一些恒星当到了跟太阳年龄相同的时候，光度是原来的20倍，并维持不了很长时间。他们认为这些是超强恒星耀斑，比我们迄今发现的太阳耀斑的强度大几百万倍。
en:Number four: giant solar flares.Solar flares are enormous magnetic outbursts from the Sunthat bombard the Earth with high-speed subatomic particles.So far, our atmosphere has done, and our magnetic field has donepretty well protecting us from this.Occasionally, we get a flare from the Sun that causes havocwith communications and so forth, and electricity.But the alarming thing is that astronomers recently have been studyingstars that are similar to our Sun,and they&#39;ve found that a number of them, when they&#39;re about the age of our Sun,brighten by a factor of as much as 20. Doesn&#39;t last for very long.And they think these are super-flares, millions of times more powerfulthan any flares we&#39;ve had from our Sun so far.
时间：18:44
zh-cn:明显我们不想碰到它们其中的任一个。（笑声）但另一方面——在研究类日恒星的过程中我们发现它们会经历一系列衰老消亡，而它们的能量也散发掉大概1%。听起来1%并不多，但却有可能导致地球回到冰河时期。所以我们该如何做呢？
en:Obviously, we don&#39;t want one of those. (Laughter)There&#39;s a flip side to it. In studying starslike our Sun, we&#39;ve found that they go through periods of diminishment,when their total amount of energy that&#39;s expelled from themgoes down by maybe one percent.One percent doesn&#39;t sound like a lot, but it would cause one hell of an ice age here.So, what can we do about this?
时间：19:06
zh-cn:（笑声）开始改造火星。这是我最喜爱的话题之一，还在1993年于《生命》周刊上特地为此撰文。这是火箭科学，却不难懂。我们所需的能在火星上建造大气层，及可以生存环境的一切东西，都可能在火星上存在。而我们所要做的理论上只是建造几个小型的核工厂，大量吞噬掉火星表面的氧化铁而释放出氧气。问题是改造火星至少需要300年。真正做好这事要需500年。没有理由不立即开始嘛！（笑声）
en:(Laughter) Start terraforming Mars. This is one of my favorite subjects.I wrote a story about this in Life magazine in 1993.This is rocket science, but it&#39;s not hard rocket science.Everything that we need to make an atmosphere on Mars,and to make a livable planet on Mars, is probably there.And you just, literally, have to send little nuclear factories up therethat gobble up the iron oxide on the surface of Mars and spit out the oxygen.The problem is it takes 300 years to terraform Mars, minimum.Really more like 500 years to do it right.There&#39;s no reason why we shouldn&#39;t start now. (Laughter)
时间：19:46
zh-cn:第三点——这个酷吧？（笑声）——一个新的全球性传染病。人类自从诞生之时开始，就不断与细菌做斗争，而且常常是细菌占了上风。1918年，美国爆发了一次流感死了2000万人，而当时人口仅有1亿。中世纪在欧洲爆发的淋巴腺鼠疫，欧洲死了四分之一人口。艾滋病卷土重来，伊波拉病毒也有抬头之势多处发生，那些老疾病，比如说霍乱也变得对抗生素有抵抗性。我们都知道当这些陈旧疾病重新爆发的时候，会给人们带来多少痛苦，例如炭疽热。
en:Number three — isn&#39;t this stuff cool? (Laughter)A new global epidemic. People have been at war with germsever since there have been people,and from time to time, the germs sure get the upper hand.In 1918, we had a flu epidemic in the United States that killed 20 million people.That was back when the population was around 100 million people.The bubonic plague in Europe, in the Middle Ages,killed one out of four Europeans.AIDS is coming back. Ebola seems to be rearing its headwith much too much frequency,and old diseases like cholera are becoming resistant to antibiotics.We&#39;ve all learned what — the kind of panic that can occurwhen an old disease rears its head, like anthrax.
时间：20:36
zh-cn:最坏的可能性是最简单的细菌，例如葡萄球菌。虽然我们仍有对其有效的抗菌素，但是其已发生变异。我们知道葡萄球菌是令人吃惊的细菌。当抗生素靠近的时候，人体内靠近肌肉细胞的葡萄球菌可以从肌肉细胞中借出基因，从而变异。危险之处在于，一些细菌例如葡萄球菌将会——变异成一种非常致命及传播性的细菌，会在我们能采取行动之前就席卷全人类。这事以前也发生过，在大概一万两千年前，在美洲发生过大规模的哺乳动物灭绝。据说这就是由一种致命疾病引起的。所以我们该怎么办呢？
en:The worst possibility is that a very simple germ, like staph,for which we have one antibiotic that still works, mutates.And we know staph can do amazing things.A staph cell can be next to a muscle cell in your body and borrow genes from itwhen antibiotics come, and change and mutate.The danger is that some germ like staph will be —will mutate into something that&#39;s really virulent, very contagious,and will sweep through populations before we can do anything about it.That&#39;s happened before. About 12,000 years ago,there was a massive wave of mammal extinctions in the Americas,and that is thought to have been a virulent disease.So, what can we do about it?
时间：21:21
zh-cn:这真是疯了。我们每天给——（掌声）每头牛，每只羊，每只鸡都注入抗生素，所有食物——你知道，当你去餐厅吃鱼的时候，我告诉你，这鱼也是饲料鱼。然后你会问餐馆这鱼是否是野生的，因为餐馆是不会自觉告诉你的。我们正在泄露密码——这就像打仗一样，我们把密码泄露给了敌方。——我们正在告诉细菌们如何跟我们作战的方法。我们要解决这点，我们要在法律上采取行动，把这些行为制定为非法。
en:It is nuts. We give antibiotics — (Applause) —every cow, every lamb, every chicken, they get antibiotics every day, all.You know, you go to a restaurant, you eat fish, I got news for you,it&#39;s all farmed. You know, you gotta ask when you go to a restaurant if it&#39;s a wild fish,cause they&#39;re not going to tell you. We&#39;re giving away the code.This is like being at war and giving somebody your secret code.We&#39;re telling the germs out there how to fight us.We gotta fix that. We gotta outlaw that right away.
时间：21:51
zh-cn:其次，我们的公共卫生系统是一个灾难，正如炭疽热见证的那样。在美国有个如此之大的疾病爆发，而我们却完全没准备。明年联邦预算中将会有一笔钱运用于建造公共卫生服务系统。但我不认为有任何理由需要作出此行为。
en:Secondly, our public health system, as we saw with anthrax, is a real disaster.We have a real, major outbreak of disease in the United States,we are not prepared to cope with it.Now, there is money in the federal budget, next year,to build up the public health service.But I don&#39;t think to any extent that it really needs to be done.
时间：22:12
zh-cn:第二点——我最爱的——我们会遇到一个流氓黑洞。10年前——亦或15年前，当你在天文学大会上发言，说，“你知道，很有可能每个银河系的中心都有个黑洞。”那你就会被人轰下台。但现在，倘若你在大会上说，“唔，我不觉得那里有黑洞。”那你才会被轰下台。我们对宇宙运行方式的理解在近年来是突飞猛进。
en:Number two — my favorite — we meet a rogue black hole.You know, 10 years ago, or 15 years ago, really,you walk into an astronomy convention, and you say,&quot;You know, there&#39;s probably a black hole at the center of every galaxy,&quot;and they&#39;re going to hoot you off the stage.And now, if you went into one of those conventions and you said,&quot;Well, I don&#39;t think black holes are out there,&quot; they&#39;d hoot you off the stage.Our comprehension of the way the universe works is really —has just gained unbelievably in recent years.
时间：22:40
zh-cn:据说单单银河系就有大概1000万的死亡恒星，这些恒星压缩成直径大概12，或15英里的物质，这就是黑洞。它们能吞噬周围的任何物质，甚至包括光，这就是为什么我们看不到它们。大多数黑洞绕着某些东西的固定轨道飞行，但星系是个极不稳定的空间，物体很容易脱离轨道。并且，这个空间无限大。所以即使有一百万个黑洞脱离轨道，其中一个能够击中我们的机会也是极其渺小的。但是——它只要靠近了地球，即使是在十亿英里之外，地球运行的轨道就会发生改变——会变成椭圆地运行，而非圆形。这样一年中有三个月，地球表面温度会达到150至180度之间。然后三个月，温度会骤降到零下50度。这样就不妙了。我们该怎么做呢？而这是我最怕的！——（笑声）因为对此问题我没有个好的答案。我们再次会想到，成为一个殖民的种族。
en:We think that there are about 10 million dead stars in the Milky Way alone, our galaxy.And these stars have compressed down to maybe something like 12, 15 miles wide,and they are black holes. And they are gobbling up everything around them,including light, which is why we can&#39;t see them.Most of them should be in orbit around something.But galaxies are very violent places, and things can be spun out of orbit.And also, space is incredibly vast.So even if you flung a million of these things out of orbit,the chances that one would actually hit us is fairly remote.But it only has to get close, about a billion miles away, one of these things.About a billion miles away, here&#39;s what happens to Earth&#39;s orbit:it becomes elliptical instead of circular.And for three months out of the year,the surface temperatures go up to 150 to 180.For three months out of the year, they go to 50 below zero.That won&#39;t work too well. What can we do about this?And this is my scariest. (Laughter)I don&#39;t have a good answer for this one.Again, we gotta think about being a colonizing race.
时间：23:59
zh-cn:最后，第一点——我想也是我们生命中最大的威胁，那就是有一颗体积较大的小行星撞击地球。这里很重要的一点需要记住的是——不是怀疑它的可能性，而是什么时候，有多大。1908年，有一颗大概200英寸的彗星碎片——在西伯利亚坠毁，铲平了方圆大概100英里的树木。它的效果相当于1000颗当时投在广岛的原子弹。天文学家估计小行星每几百年造访地球一次。1989年一个大型的小行星刚和地球擦肩而过相差仅大概40万英里。
en:And finally, number one: biggest danger to life as we know it, I think,a really big asteroid heads for Earth.The important thing to remember here — this is not a question of if,this is a question of when, and how big.In 1908, just a 200-foot piece of a cometexploded over Siberia and flattened forests for maybe 100 miles.It had the effect of about 1,000 Hiroshima bombs.Astronomers estimate that little asteroids like that come about every hundred years.In 1989, a large asteroid passed 400,000 miles away from Earth.
时间：24:40
zh-cn:没什么需要担心的，是不？它直接穿过地球的轨道，而地球在6个小时前就运行在那点上。一颗大概直径半英里的小行星，可能会引起风暴性大火紧跟着残骸产生的极度严寒遍及全球——卡尔 萨根所描述的核冬天——直径5英里的小行星导致的大灭绝——我们认为当时导致恐龙灭绝的就是个直径5英里的小行星。它们是什么？它们被称作柯伊伯带，是个——一些人认为冥王星不是星球，柯伊伯带就是冥王星所在地。稍远之处被称作奥尔特云。那里堆积了约10万个冰封的石头——实际上就是彗星直径均为50英里或更大，规律地面朝太阳旋转着并合理的从地球旁驶过。我更关注的是火星和木星之间的小行星。斯隆数字巡天勘探中心人员去年秋季告诉我们——他们正在绘制宇宙的第一张三维地图，其中火星和木星之间就有70万个小行星大概有半英里甚至更大。你也许会问，这种事发生的几率是多少？安德鲁，能否帮我打开图表？
en:Nothing to worry about, right?It passed directly through Earth&#39;s orbit. We were in that that spot six hours earlier.A small asteroid, say a half mile wide, would touch off firestormsfollowed by severe global cooling from the debris kicked up —Carl Sagan&#39;s nuclear winter thing.An asteroid five miles wide causes major extinctions.We think the one that got the dinosaurs was about five miles wide.Where are they? There&#39;s something called the Kuiper belt,which — some people think Pluto&#39;s not a planet,that&#39;s where Pluto is, it&#39;s in the Kuiper belt.There&#39;s also something a little farther out, called the Oort cloud.There are about 100,000 balls of ice and rock — comets, really —out there, that are 50 miles in diameter or more,and they regularly take a little spin,in towards the Sun and pass reasonably close to us.Of more concern, I think, is the asteroids that exist between Mars and Jupiter.The folks at the Sloan Digital Sky Survey told us last fall —they&#39;re making the first map of the universe, three-dimensional map of the universe —that there are probably 700,000 asteroids between Mars and Jupiterthat are a half a mile big or bigger.So you say, yeah, well, what are really the chances of this happening?Andrew, can you put that chart up?
时间：26:15
zh-cn:这是西南研究所的克拉克查普曼博士所绘制的图表，并在几年前提交给了国会。根据他们调查结果，你会发现小行星撞击灭绝人类的几率是2万分之1.让我们看看正下方的数据。旅客飞机失事几率，2万分之1.我们花大笔钱期望我们不会死于飞机事故，尽管这是完全可以预防的。去年我们最终拥有阻止这个冷局的技术。解决之道是什么？
en:This is a chart that Dr. Clark Chapman at the Southwest Research Institutepresented to Congress a few years ago.You&#39;ll notice that the chance of an asteroid-slash-comet impact killing youis about one in 20,000, according to the work they&#39;ve done.Now look at the one right below that.Passenger aircraft crash, one in 20,000.We spend an awful lot of money trying to be sure that we don&#39;t die in airplane accidents,and we&#39;re not spending hardly anything on this. And yet, this is completely preventable.We finally have, just in the last year, the technology to stop this cold.Could we have the solutions?
时间：26:55
zh-cn:NASA每年仅花费300万元来搜索小行星——300万元啊根本不值得一提。因为我们能够对每个小行星进行辨认，知道它们是否会撞上地球及发生的时间。这就是他们正在尝试计算的事。但是每年只花300万元，这样要花费10年才能算出来，而且即使这样他们也宣称只有80%的小行星编录在案。彗星是个更难处理的玩意。我们还未拥有能够预测出彗星轨道的技术，或者算出其中这些我们命名的彗星啥时能够到访。但如果有来我们也仍有大量时间。我们真正需要的是专人看管的天文台。你会注意到大多数彗星都是以你未曾听说过的名字命名的——而且这些人都是业余天文学家？这是因为除了这些业余天文爱好者，没人在寻找彗星。我们需要有个专人看管的天文台专门寻找彗星。
en:NASA&#39;s spending three million dollars a year, three million bucks —that is like pocket change — to search for asteroids.Because we can actually figure out every asteroid that&#39;s out there,and if it might hit Earth, and when it might hit Earth.And they&#39;re trying to do that.But it&#39;s going to take them 10 years, at spending three million dollars a year,and even then, they claim they&#39;ll only have about 80 percent of them catalogued.Comets are a tougher act.We don&#39;t really have the technology to predict comet trajectories,or when one with our name on it might arrive.But we would have lots of time, if we see it coming.We really need a dedicated observatory.You&#39;ll notice that a lot of comets are named after people you never heard of,amateur astronomers? That&#39;s because nobody&#39;s looking for them, except amateurs.We need a dedicated observatory that looks for comets.
时间：27:44
zh-cn:解决方法之二——我们得找出炸掉一个小行星，亦或改变其轨道的方法。一年前，我们做了件令人惊叹的事。我们向小行星带发送了一个探测器，叫做NEAR，也就是近地小行星探测器。让它绕着一个叫做厄里斯的长约22英里的小行星飞行。后来由于有额外的电池，能源等物质，他们成功地在最后一分钟把NASA里某些“隐晦”的装备拉出，并着陆——任务完成之时他们是真的成功着陆在那个彗星之上了。我们在小行星上着陆过火箭飞船，这件事也算容易。现在问题就在于如何把炸弹送往行星。因为在宇宙空间里没有空气，就无法推动运行。核爆炸也许可行，但我们没有足够大能够炸掉22英里长的小行星的核弹。亦或能够使之蒸发。
en:Part two of the solutions: we need to figure out how to blow up an asteroid,or alter its trajectory. Now, a year ago, we did an amazing thing.We sent a probe out to this asteroid belt,called NEAR, Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous.And these guys orbited a 30 — or no, about a 22-mile long asteroid called Eros.And then, of course, you know, they pulled one of those sneaky NASA things,where they had extra batteries and extra gas aboard and everything,and then, at the last minute, they landed.When the mission was over, they actually landed on the thing.We have landed a rocket ship on an asteroid. It&#39;s not a big deal.Now, the trouble with just sending a bomb out for this thingis that you don&#39;t have anything to push against in space, because there&#39;s no air.A nuclear explosion is just as hot,but we don&#39;t really have anything big enough to melt a 22-mile long asteroid,or vaporize it, would be more like it.
时间：28:39
zh-cn:但我们能够着陆在这些由我们命名的行星上，并予之一个离子推进器，能够缓慢的在一段时间内将行星改道，如果我们计算无误，就能够阻止它撞向地球。这只是找到它们，到达它们，并对它们作出行动的问题。我知道你们已经听的头昏脑胀了，哎呀！竟然有这么多的威胁！
en:But we can learn to land on these asteroids that have our name on themand put something like a small ion propulsion motor on it,which would gently, slowly, after a period of time, push it into a different trajectory,which, if we&#39;ve done our math right, would keep it from hitting Earth.This is just a matter of finding &#39;em, going there, and doing something about it.I know your head is spinning from all this stuff.Yikes! So many big threats!
时间：29:07
zh-cn:我想我们要记住的，是9月11号发生的事。我们不想再毫无准备惊慌失措了。我们知道这件事。现在科学能够对未来很多事作出预测，知识就是力量。最糟糕的事是我们只是叹气，说着除了担心小行星外已有太多事使我们忧心忡忡了。这是个在理论上能够结束我们未来的错误。谢谢。
en:The thing, I think, to remember, is September 11.We don&#39;t want to get caught flat-footed again.We know about this stuff.Science has the power to predict the future in many cases now.Knowledge is power.The worst thing we can do is say, jeez, I got enough to worry aboutwithout worrying about an asteroid. (Laughter)That&#39;s a mistake that could literally cost us our future.Thank you.
