时间： 0:12
zh-cn:海洋是一个非常复杂的事物。人类的健康也是一件非常复杂的事情。将两者统一起来看起来是一件艰巨的任务。但我想要试图去说明的是即使是如此复杂的情况，也存在一些我认为简单的话题，一些如果我们能理解，就很容易向前发展的话题。这些简单的话题确实不是有关那复杂的科学有了怎样的发展，而是一些我们都恰好知道的事情。接下来我就来说一个。如果老妈不高兴了，大家都别想开心。我们都知道，不是吗？我们都经历过。接下来如果我们能理解这一点从这里出发，可以得出下一步的，那就是如果海洋不高兴了大家也都别想开心。这就是我演讲的主题。我们正在通过许多不同的方法惹怒海洋。
en:It can be a very complicated thing, the ocean.And it can be a very complicated thing, what human health is.And bringing those two together might seem a very daunting task,but what I&#39;m going to try to say is thateven in that complexity,there&#39;s some simple themes that I think,if we understand, we can really move forward.And those simple themes aren&#39;t reallythemes about the complex science of what&#39;s going on,but things that we all pretty well know.And I&#39;m going to start with this one:If momma ain&#39;t happy, ain&#39;t nobody happy.We know that, right? We&#39;ve experienced that.And if we just take thatand we build from there,then we can go to the next step,which is that if the ocean ain&#39;t happy,ain&#39;t nobody happy.That&#39;s the theme of my talk.And we&#39;re making the ocean pretty unhappy in a lot of different ways.
时间： 0:59
zh-cn:这是1932年在坎纳里鲁夫拍的一副照片那时的坎纳里鲁夫，有着西海岸最大的工业化罐头工厂。我们堆积了大量的污染物在空气中和水中我所工作的霍普金的海洋研究站的罗尔夫·博林教授，在二十世纪40年代指出，“海湾入口里浮沫所散发的臭气特别难闻那里有含铅的黑涂料。工作在罐头厂的人们每天都只能待在这样的气味之中。然而你知道他们说什么吗？他们说：“你知道你闻到的是什么吗？你闻到的是钱的气味。”污染来自于社区的金钱利益。那些人们和污染生活在一起并把污染吸入了它们的皮肤和身体因为他们需要钱。让海洋不高兴，人们也特别不高兴，并且人类还不再健康。
en:This is a shot of Cannery Row in 1932.Cannery Row, at the time,had the biggest industrialcanning operation on the west coast.We piled enormous amounts of pollutioninto the air and into the water.Rolf Bolin, who was a professorat the Hopkin&#39;s Marine Station where I work,wrote in the 1940s that&quot;The fumes from the scum floating on the inlets of the baywere so bad they turnedlead-based paints black.&quot;People working in these canneriescould barely stay there all day because of the smell,but you know what they came out saying?They say, &quot;You know what you smell?You smell money.&quot;That pollution was money to that community,and those people dealt with the pollutionand absorbed it into their skin and into their bodiesbecause they needed the money.We made the ocean unhappy; we made people very unhappy,and we made them unhealthy.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:海洋的健康和人类健康之间的联系确实就像另一组谚语说的那样。我觉得这么说：“抓了小鱼，害死鲸鱼”海洋生物的食物链……现在……当一位生态学者看待海洋的时候——我承认——我们用一种十分不同的方式来看待海洋，比起普通人，我们看待海洋时发现的不同之处更多。因为当生态学家看待海洋的时候，会看到其中的相互联系。我们看食物链的下层，浮游生物这种小东西，还会看这些小动物们是如何成为位于金字塔中部动物们的食物的，然后就这样一直向上走到这幅图的顶部。这种生命的流动从最底部流向最顶部，是生态学家们关注的。并且这就是我们努力去保护的当我们说：“救救海洋，给海洋治治病吧。”说的就是这金字塔。
en:The connection between ocean health and human healthis actually based upon another couple simple adages,and I want to call that&quot;pinch a minnow, hurt a whale.&quot;The pyramid of ocean life ...Now, when an ecologist looks at the ocean — I have to tell you —we look at the ocean in a very different way,and we see different things than when a regular person looks at the oceanbecause when an ecologist looks at the ocean,we see all those interconnections.We see the base of the food chain,the plankton, the small things,and we see how those animalsare food to animals in the middle of the pyramid,and on so up this diagram.And that flow, that flow of life,from the very base up to the very top,is the flow that ecologists see.And that&#39;s what we&#39;re trying to preservewhen we say, &quot;Save the ocean. Heal the ocean.&quot;It&#39;s that pyramid.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:那么为什么这与人类的健康有关系呢？因为，当我们把一些本不该在食物链底部存在的东西塞进了金字塔食物链之后，就出现了很可怕的事情。一些由我们制造的污染物，像是PCB分子（多氯联苯，一种致癌物质）是不能被我们的身体吸收的。它们进入到食物链金字塔的底部，并不断向上，经过食物链，到达肉食动物和顶端肉食动物这里。这样的话，就堆积起来了。
en:Now why does that matter for human health?Because when we jam things in the bottomof that pyramid that shouldn&#39;t be there,some very frightening things happen.Pollutants, some pollutants have been created by us:molecules like PCBsthat can&#39;t be broken down by our bodies.And they go in the base of that pyramid,and they drift up; they&#39;re passed up that way,on to predators and on to the top predators,and in so doing,they accumulate.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:然后，为了能彻底了解这个问题，我想邀请大家做个小游戏我们并不是真的要玩，只是在这里想一下就好。这是个保丽龙发泡胶和巧克力的游戏。想象一下当我们登上这艘船，我们都得到了两个保丽龙的花生。除了把它们放在兜里，你也做不了什么其他的。因为规则是：每一次你请别人喝一杯的时候，除了要给别人酒之外，也要把你的保丽龙花生给别人。接下来发生的事情就是保丽龙花生会开始在我们的团体里流通。并且它们会集中在最吝啬的醉鬼身上（笑声）这个游戏里面的机制让人们什么也做不了除了得到越来越大的一堆无法消化的保丽龙花生。这就是和PDB分子（对二氯苯，化学合成药剂，致癌）在食物链中的堆积一样。它们富集在食物链的顶部。
en:Now, to bring that home, I thought I&#39;d invent a little game.We don&#39;t really have to play it; we can just think about it here.It&#39;s the Styrofoam and chocolate game.Imagine that when we got on this boat,we were all giventwo Styrofoam peanuts.Can&#39;t do much with them: Put them in your pocket.Suppose the rules are: every time you offer somebody a drink,you give them the drink,and you give them your Styrofoam peanuts too.What&#39;ll happen is that the Styrofoam peanutswill start moving through our society here,and they will accumulate inthe drunkest, stingiest people.(Laughter)There&#39;s no mechanism in this gamefor them to go anywhere but intoa bigger and bigger pileof indigestible Styrofoam peanuts.And that&#39;s exactly what happens with PDBsin this food pyramid:They accumulate into the top of it.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:然后假设不用保丽龙花生，我们用这些可爱的巧克力来替代它们。嗯，我们之中的一些人会把巧克力吃了而不给别人。这样就不会产生堆积，它们只会在人群中流通但不会堆积在人群里。因为巧克力可以被我们吸收。这与PCB分子是不同的，可以说，就像ω- 3脂肪酸一样天然，我们希望海洋食物链里有这些东西。
en:Now suppose, instead of Styrofoam peanuts,we take these lovely little chocolates that we getand we had those instead.Well, some of us would be eating those chocolatesinstead of passing them around,and instead of accumulating,they will just pass into our group hereand not accumulate in any one groupbecause they&#39;re absorbed by us.And that&#39;s the difference between a PCBand, say, something natural like an omega-3,something we want out of the marine food chain.
时间： 4:27
zh-cn:PCB的富集。很不幸，有许多这种例子PCB堆积在海豚体内就发生在萨拉索塔湾，得克萨斯州，北卡罗来纳州。PCB分子进入了食物链。海豚吃了小鱼小鱼从浮游生物那里得到了PCB分子，这些脂溶性的PCB分子就富集在了海豚体内。现在，一只海豚，海豚母亲，或者是任何的海豚只有一种方法排出PCB分子。是什么呢？通过母乳。这是一张萨拉索塔湾海豚体内PCB含量的图表。成年雄性体内的含量巨大。幼年海豚体内也有很大含量。雌性在第一次哺乳期之后含量稍低。雌性海豚并不想这样。它们将PCB分子通过乳汁里面的脂肪传递给了它们的后代。而后代没有活下来。这些海豚的死亡率，每只雌性海豚的第一胎，大约在60%到80％。母亲们把污染物都输送给了第一胎后代。其中大部分都会死去。现在，雌性海豚可以继续繁殖了，但这代价太大了污染物富集在这些动物体内——这要由第一胎后代的死来买单。
en:PCBs accumulate.We have great examples of that, unfortunately.PCBs accumulate in dolphinsin Sarasota Bay, in Texas, in North Carolina.They get into the food chain.The dolphins eat the fishthat have PCBs from the plankton,and those PCBs, being fat-soluble,accumulate in these dolphins.Now, a dolphin,mother dolphin, any dolphin —there&#39;s only one waythat a PCB can get out of a dolphin.And what&#39;s that?In mother&#39;s milk.Here&#39;s a diagram of the PCB loadof dolphins in Sarasota Bay.Adult males: a huge load.Juveniles: a huge load.Females after their first calf is already weaned:a lower load.Those females, they&#39;re not trying to.Those females are passing the PCBsin the fat of their own mother&#39;s milkinto their offspring,and their offspring don&#39;t survive.The death rate in these dolphins,for the first calf born of every female dolphin,is 60 to 80 percent.These mothers pump their first offspringfull of this pollutant,and most of them die.Now, the mother then can go and reproduce,but what a terrible price to payfor the accumulation of this pollutantin these animals —the death of the first-born calf.
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:原来，在海洋食物链里还有另外一个顶端捕食者显然，这个顶端捕食者就是我们。我们也吃肉来自于同样一些地方的肉。这是鲸鱼肉我在东京一家食品店拍到的或者不是？实际上，我们做了几年的研究研究如何偷运一所分子生物实验室进东京用于遗传学的检验检验鲸鱼肉中去出的DNA样本并鉴定它们到底是什么。一部分鲸鱼肉样本确实是鲸鱼肉。顺带一说，另一部分检验出不合规格。这是另一个话题了。但是有一些就根本不是鲸鱼肉。即使有着鲸鱼肉的幌子，实际上这些是海豚肉。有一些是海豚肝脏。有一些是海豚的鳍。那些海豚肉都含巨量的PCB分子，二恶英（剧毒）和重金属。这些有害物质都流入到食用这些肉的人身体内。这证明许多海豚在世界上的鲸肉市场里都被当作肉食出售。对海豚来说这是一场悲剧。但对食用它们的人类来说同样是一场悲剧因为他们并不知道这是有毒的肉。
en:There&#39;s another top predator in the ocean, it turns out.That top predator, of course, is us.And we also are eating meatthat comes from some of these same places.This is whale meatthat I photographed in a grocery store in Tokyo —or is it?In fact, what we did a few years agowas learn how to smugglea molecular biology lab into Tokyoand use it to genetically test the DNAout of whale meat samplesand identify what they really were.And some of those whale meat samples were whale meat.Some of them were illegal whale meat, by the way.That&#39;s another story.But some of them were not whale meat at all.Even though they were labeled whale meat, they were dolphin meat.Some of them were dolphin liver. Some of them were dolphin blubber.And those dolphin partshad a huge load of PCBs,dioxins and heavy metals.And that huge load was passing into the peoplethat ate this meat.It turns out that a lot of dolphinsare being sold as meatin the whale meat market around the world.That&#39;s a tragedy for those populations,but it&#39;s also a tragedyfor the people eating thembecause they don&#39;t know that that&#39;s toxic meat.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:几年前的一天我们得出的这些数据。我记得我坐在办公桌旁作为世界上唯一的人唯一知道在鲸鱼肉市场上卖的那些鲸鱼肉实际上是海豚肉,并且含毒的人。含有的毒素是有史以来环保局允许的2-3倍到400倍。并且我记得我坐在办公桌之前想：“嗯，我发现了这个，这是个伟大的科学发现。”但它如此可怕。在我科学生涯中，我第一次打破了科学的协议，就是做出数据并发布在科学杂志上，然后再谈论它们。我们写了一封很客气的信给日本卫生部长并简单的指出并非对于我们是一个不可忍受的情况，而是对于日本人民。因为需要哺乳的母亲们，有小孩的母亲们，应该买她们认为健康的东西，但这些东西实际上有毒。这导致了日本一系列的其他运动。在这一点上，我真的非常骄傲的说，在日本买任何东西都很难这是标签贴错了，即使他们仍然在出售鲸肉，而我认为他们不该这么做。但是至少标签帖对了你就不回再去买有毒的海豚肉。
en:We had these data a few years ago.I remember sitting at my deskbeing about the only person in the worldwho knew that whale meat being sold in these marketswas really dolphin meat, and it was toxic.It had two-to-three-to-400 times the toxic loadsever allowed by the EPA.And I remember there sitting at my desk thinking,&quot;Well, I know this. This is a great scientific discovery,&quot;but it was so awful.And for the very first time in my scientific career,I broke scientific protocol,which is that you take the data and publish them in scientific journalsand then begin to talk about them.We sent a very polite letterto the Minister of Health in Japanand simply pointed out thatthis is an intolerable situation, not for us,but for the people of Japanbecause mothers who may be breastfeeding,who may have young children,would be buying something that they thought was healthy,but it was really toxic.That led to a whole series of other campaigns in Japan,and I&#39;m really proud to say that at this point,it&#39;s very difficult to buy anything in Japanthat&#39;s labeled incorrectly,even though they&#39;re still selling whale meat,which I believe they shouldn&#39;t.But at least it&#39;s labeled correctly,and you&#39;re no longer going to be buyingtoxic dolphin meat instead.
时间： 8:14
zh-cn:并不是只有日本才这样，而是在一些国家的自然食物链都这样在加拿大北部，在美国还有欧洲北部，海豹和鲸鱼的自然食物链导致了PCB分子的富集从世界上的各个地方聚集到妇女的身上。这些妇女的乳汁含毒。她们不能用她们的乳汁来喂养她们的孩子们因为富集的毒素在她们的食物链之中，在她们世界中的一部分在海洋金字塔食物链里。这说明她们的免疫系统已经受到危害。这说明她们后代的生长发育也会受到危害。近十年世界上对这一问题的关注已经帮助这些妇女解决了这个问题，不是通过改变食物链结构，而是改变她们特有的饮食。我们已经让这些妇女脱离自然的食物链目的就是解决这个问题。对于这个特别尖锐的问题，这是个好办法，但它对解决金字塔食物链问题没什么帮助。
en:It isn&#39;t just there that this happens,but in a natural diet of some communitiesin the Canadian arctic and in the United Statesand in the European arctic,a natural diet of seals and whalesleads to an accumulation of PCBsthat have gathered up from all parts of the worldand ended up in these women.These women have toxic breast milk.They cannot feed their offspring, their children,their breast milkbecause of the accumulation of these toxinsin their food chain,in their part of the world&#39;socean pyramid.That means their immune systems are compromised.It means that their children&#39;s developmentcan be compromised.And the world&#39;s attention on this over the last decadehas reduced the problemfor these women,not by changing the pyramid,but by changing what they particularly eat out of it.We&#39;ve taken them out of their natural pyramidin order to solve this problem.That&#39;s a good thing for this particular acute problem,but it does nothing to solve the pyramid problem.
时间： 9:16
zh-cn:还有另一种方法打破金字塔食物链。如果我们在金字塔食物链底部塞入一些东西，食物链可以像下水道那样回堵上来。如果我们在食物链底部加入营养物质、污水和化肥，那将影响整个食物链。下面用我们之前听过的例子结束这件事：赤潮，赤潮里有大量有毒藻类，漂浮在海洋之上的赤潮能造成精神受损。我们也可能会让海洋里的细菌，和病毒大量繁殖。这里的两张照片都是红潮的这里面有一种弧菌，带有霍乱细菌。有多少人见过“海岸禁入”的标志呢？为什么会这样呢？因为我们把太多垃圾扔到了海洋食物链的底部这些细菌大量繁殖，并回溢到我们的海滩上。一般困扰我们的都是污水。
en:There&#39;s other ways of breaking the pyramid.The pyramid, if we jam things in the bottom,can get backed up like a sewer line that&#39;s clogged.And if we jam nutrients, sewage, fertilizerin the base of that food pyramid,it can back up all through it.We end up with things we&#39;ve heard about before:red tides, for example,which are blooms of toxic algaefloating through the oceanscausing neurological damage.We can also see blooms of bacteria,blooms of viruses in the ocean.These are two shots of a red tide coming on shore hereand a bacteriain the genus vibrio,which includes the genus that has cholera in it.How many people have seen a &quot;beach closed&quot; sign?Why does that happen?It happens because we have jammed so muchinto the base of the natural ocean pyramidthat these bacteria clog it upand overfill onto our beaches.Often what jams us up is sewage.
时间：10:14
zh-cn:那么有多少人曾经去过州立公园或是国家公园呢？在那的门口曾经看到一块大标志上这样写着吗？“因垃圾太多充斥公园而关闭”不常见吧？我们不能容忍这种事情。我们不能容忍公园被垃圾堆满。但是在我们国家海岸却关闭了很多。世界各地越来越多，越来越多的海岸关闭都是因为同样的原因。我相信这些我们也不应该容忍。这不只是清洁的问题。同时也是海洋有机物如何进入到人类疾病中的问题。那些弧菌和细菌确实可以感染人类。它们可以进入皮肤并造成皮肤感染。
en:Now how many of you have ever gone to a state park or a national parkwhere you had a big sign at the front saying,&quot;Closed because human sewageis so far over this parkthat you can&#39;t use it&quot;?Not very often. We wouldn&#39;t tolerate that.We wouldn&#39;t tolerate our parksbeing swamped by human sewage,but beaches are closed a lot in our country.They&#39;re closed more and more and more all around the world for the same reason,and I believe we shouldn&#39;t tolerate that either.It&#39;s not just a question of cleanliness;it&#39;s also a question ofhow those organismsthen turn into human disease.These vibrios, these bacteria, can actually infect people.They can go into your skin and create skin infections.
时间：10:55
zh-cn:这张图是来自美国国家气象局提议的海与人类健康法案，说明过去几年中，越来越多的人受到弧菌感染。举例来说，冲浪的人十分了解这一情况。如果你登录一些冲浪网站，实际上不光能看到海浪和天气如何，有一些冲浪者网站，还会有一些闪烁的警示。这表示海边可能有大浪，但这对冲浪者来说是危险的因为他们会一直携带海洋中的细菌，即使是在冲浪之后的很多天，这些遗留物造成的感染也许要花很长时间去治疗。现在其中的一些细菌确实携带了抗生素抗体遗传因子。这就使得治疗更加困难。
en:This is a graph from NOAA&#39;s ocean and human health initiative,showing the rise of the infectionsby vibrio in peopleover the last few years.Surfers, for example, know this incredibly.And if you can see on some surfing sites,in fact, not only do you seewhat the waves are like or what the weather&#39;s like,but on some surf rider sites,you see a little flashing poo alert.That means that the beach might have great waves,but it&#39;s a dangerous place for surfers to bebecause they can carry with them,even after a great day of surfing,this legacy of an infection that might take a very long time to solve.Some of these infections are actually carryingantibiotic resistance genes now,and that makes them even more difficult.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:这些传染源使得有害藻类大量繁殖。繁殖会产生其他的化学物质。这是几种有毒物质的清单说明了这些有毒海藻的危害：贝毒、甲藻鱼毒、痢疾性贝毒——你不会想了解这种毒的——神经性贝毒、麻痹性贝毒。这些有害物质因为海藻大量繁殖而进入到我们的食物链中。丽塔·卡威尔成功的追寻到一个有趣的故事是关于人类感染霍乱的，他们不是被正常人传染而是被海上的一种桡足动物传染的。桡足动物是小甲壳动物。只有几分之一英寸长。弧菌会依附在它们细小的腿上然后使人类得病。这引发了霍乱病沿着港口传向整个世界并迫使人们注意到要努力不让船只成为向世界传播霍乱病的传染源。
en:These same infectionscreate harmful algal blooms.Those blooms are generating other kinds of chemicals.This is just a simple list of some of the types of poisonsthat come out of these harmful algal blooms:shellfish poisoning,fish ciguatera,diarrheic shellfish poisoning — you don&#39;t want to know about that —neurotoxic shellfish poisoning, paralytic shellfish poisoning.These are things that are getting into our food chainbecause of these blooms.Rita Calwell very famouslytraced a very interesting storyof cholera into human communities,brought there, not bya normal human vector,but by a marine vector, this copepod.Copepods are small crustaceans.They&#39;re a tiny fraction of an inch long,and they can carry on their little legssome of the cholera bacteriathat then leads to human disease.That has sparked cholera epidemicsin ports along the worldand has led to increased concentrationon trying to make sure shippingdoesn&#39;t move thesevectors of cholera around the world.
时间：12:42
zh-cn:我们该做点什么呢？我们主要的问题是生态系统运转遭到破坏金字塔食物链也运转不畅，食物链从底部开始就处于阻塞状态。该怎么处理这种流通不畅的问题呢？其实有很多能做的事。例如，可以叫水管工来修理。他就会进来并疏通管道。但实际上，如果放眼世界就不光是希望解决我们能解决的问题，有些地方的问题已经解决了，有些地方的人们已经了解了这些问题并开始寻求解决办法。蒙特雷就是其中之一。
en:So what do you do?We have major problems in disrupted ecosystem flowthat the pyramid may not be working so well,that the flow from the base up into itis being blocked and clogged.What do you do when you have this sort of disrupted flow?Well, there&#39;s a bunch of things you could do.You could call Joe the Plumber, for example.And he could come inand fix the flow.But in fact, if you look around the world,not only are there hope spotsfor where we may be able to fix problems,there have been places where problems have been fixed,where people have come to grips with these issuesand begun to turn them around.Monterey is one of those.
时间：13:20
zh-cn:在开始的时候我展示了蒙特雷海岸生态系统已经被破坏的程度这是因为污染和罐头工厂还有随之而来的各种问题。这是1932年的照片。2009年的照片中已经有明显不同。罐头工厂迁走了，污染也减轻了。但更有意义的是社区居民所需的是一个健全的生态系统。他们需要从下到上功能良好的金字塔食物链。目前在蒙特雷这条食物链，在各方人士的努力之下，功能前所未有的健全150年来从未如此。
en:I started out showing how muchwe had distressed the Monterey Bay ecosystemwith pollution and the canning industryand all of the attendant problems.In 1932, that&#39;s the picture.In 2009, the picture is dramatically different.The canneries are gone. The pollution has abated.But there&#39;s a greater sense herethat what the individual communities needis working ecosystems.They need a functioning pyramid from the base all the way to the top.And that pyramidin Monterey, right now,because of the efforts of a lot of different people,is functioning better than it&#39;s ever functionedfor the last 150 years.
时间：13:58
zh-cn:这不是突然发生的。这是因为许多人付出了时间和精力并投入了先驱者的精神。左边这位，朱丽娅·普拉特是我家乡小镇葛洛芙洋的镇长她在74岁的时候当选镇长因为她做了一些保护海洋的事情。1931年，她设计了加州第一个基于社区的海洋保护区，紧挨着污染最重的罐头厂因为朱丽娅知道当罐头厂最终迁走之后，海洋需要一块地方来复原，换句话说海洋需要一块地方抛砖引玉。她想要成为这先驱者。
en:It didn&#39;t happen accidentally.It happened because many people put their time and effortand their pioneering spirit into this.On the left there, Julia Platt,the mayor of my little hometown in Pacific Grove.At 74 years old, became mayorbecause something had to be doneto protect the ocean.In 1931, she produced California&#39;s firstcommunity-based marine protected area,right next to the biggest polluting cannery,because Julia knewthat when the canneries eventually were gone,the ocean needed a place to grow from,that the ocean needed a place to spark a seed,and she wanted to provide that seed.
时间：14:35
zh-cn:其他人像大卫·帕卡德和朱莉·帕卡德，他们帮助筹建了蒙特雷湾水族馆以此让人们了解这片海洋和海洋生态系统的健康和当地的经济发展一样重要但经济发展却侵害了海洋生态。这种思想上的转变已经导致了巨大的变化，不仅改变了蒙特雷湾的命运还影响了世界上的其他地方。
en:Other people, like David Packard and Julie Packard,who were instrumental in producing the Monterey Bay aquariumto lock into people&#39;s notionthat the oceanand the health of the ocean ecosystemwere just as important to the economy of this areaas eating the ecosystem would be.That change in thinking has led to a dramatic shift,not only in the fortunes of Monterey Bay,but other places around the world.
时间：15:01
zh-cn:接下来，我希望让你们知道，我们正在尝试去做的事情是保护海洋金字塔食物链。而海洋食物链和我们的食物链紧密相连。这是个海洋星球，虽然我们认为自己是陆地生物。但是海洋生物的食物链和我们陆地生物有着紧密的联系。只有让海洋健康我们才能确保自身的健康。
en:Well, I want to leave you with the thought thatwhat we&#39;re really trying to do hereis protect this ocean pyramid,and that ocean pyramidconnects to our own pyramid of life.It&#39;s an ocean planet,and we think of ourselves as a terrestrial species,but the pyramid of life in the oceanand our own lives on landare intricately connected.And it&#39;s only through having the ocean being healthythat we can remain healthy ourselves.
时间：15:28
zh-cn:十分感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：15:30
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
