时间： 0:12
zh-cn:大家做好准备我们要去火星。
en:Strap yourselves in,we&#39;re going to Mars.
时间： 0:16
zh-cn:不仅仅是一些宇航员成千上万的人准备殖民火星。相信我，这将发生在不久的将来。你们当中的一些人将留在火星工作，我保证你们的孩子也将一直留在那里。
en:Not just a few astronauts —thousands of peopleare going to colonize Mars.And I am telling youthat they&#39;re going to do this soon.Some of you will end upworking on projects on Mars,and I guarantee that someof your children will end up living there.
时间： 0:32
zh-cn:这可能听起来很荒谬所以我将和各位分享这如何发生，何时发生。首先我想讨论一个显而易见的问题：我们为什么要这么做？
en:That probably sounds preposterous,so I&#39;m going to share with youhow and when that will happen.But first I want to discussthe obvious question:Why the heck should we do this?
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:12年前，我在TED进行了一场关于十种世界突然毁灭的方式的演讲。我们在宇宙的奇思妙想面前真的难以置信的脆弱。单单一颗略大的小行星就可以让我们永远消失。为了生存，我们必须有后备的星球。试想如果人类所创造的所有成就瞬间消失那将是多大的悲剧啊。
en:12 years ago,I gave a TED talk on 10 waysthe world could end suddenly.We are incredibly vulnerableto the whims of our own galaxy.A single, large asteroidcould take us out forever.To survive we have to reachbeyond the home planet.Think what a tragedy it would beif all that humans have accomplishedwere suddenly obliterated.
时间： 1:07
zh-cn:还有一个原因：我们生而勇于探索。两百万年前起源于非洲的人类缓慢却坚定地探索着望不到尽头的荒野最终足迹遍布了整个星球。这是我们的灵魂。而且他们成功了。因为我们不停的探索，文明和科技都取得了长足的进步。
en:And there&#39;s another reason we should go:exploration is in our DNA.Two million years agohumans evolved in Africaand then slowly but surelyspread out across the entire planetby reaching into the wildernessthat was beyond their horizons.This stuff is inside us.And they prospered doing that.Some of the greatest advancesin civilization and technologycame because we explored.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:当然我们可以用钱搞定很多事情去建立一个蒸蒸日上的火星殖民地。当然，我们也应该更好地管理和爱护我们自己的星球。当然，我担心就像我们搞砸了地球一样，我们可能也会搞砸火星。
en:Yes, we could do a lot of goodwith the money it will taketo establish a thriving colony on Mars.And yes we should all be takingfar better care of our own home planet.And yes, I worry we could screw up Marsthe way we&#39;ve screwed up Earth.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:不过先想一想，当肯尼迪总统向所有人宣布我们可以把一个人类送到月球上时，他点燃了整代人的梦想。试想为了登陆火星我们将受到多么大的鼓舞。也许孤身一人时，会回想地球的时光。也许我们在火星顽强生存时，会回想地球的美好，会意识到家的宝贵。
en:But think for a moment,what we had when John F. Kennedytold us we would put a human on the moon.He excited an entire generation to dream.Think how inspired we will beto see a landing on Mars.Perhaps then we will look back at Earthand see that that isone people instead of manyand perhaps thenwe will look back at Earth,as we struggle to survive on Mars,and realize how preciousthe home planet is.
时间： 2:22
zh-cn:下面我来介绍我们将进行的神奇旅程。首先，介绍一下我们将要去的地方的奇妙之处。这张照片真实的反应了地球和火星的大小对比。火星不是我们的姊妹星球，它比地球尺寸的一半还要小得多，不过虽然火星小一些，在火星上表面人类可以活动的面积和在地球上差不多大，因为地球主要被水覆盖。
en:So let me tell you about the extraordinaryadventure we&#39;re about to undertake.But first,a few fascinating factsabout where we&#39;re going.This picture actually representsthe true size of Mars compared to Earth.Mars is not our sister planet.It&#39;s far less than halfthe size of the Earth,and yet despite the factthat it&#39;s smaller,the surface area of Marsthat you can stand onis equivalent to the surface areaof the Earth that you can stand on,because the Earthis mostly covered by water.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:火星的大气层非常稀薄，只有地球的厚度的百分之一，而且火星上不能呼吸，96%的空气是二氧化碳。
en:The atmosphere on Mars is really thin —100 times thinner than on Earth —and it&#39;s not breathable,it&#39;s 96 percent carbon dioxide.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:火星非常冷。平均气温零下63摄氏度，昼夜温差也非常大。
en:It&#39;s really cold there.The average temperatureis minus 81 degrees,although there isquite a range of temperature.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:火星上的一昼夜的长短和地球上差不多，比地球长大约39分钟。火星上的每个季节和每年的时间都是地球上的两倍长。
en:A day on Mars is about as longas a day on Earth,plus about 39 minutes.Seasons and years on Marsare twice as long as they are on Earth.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:对那些想插上翅膀在火星上飞的人来说，火星的重力比地球小很多，所以是个好选择。不用绕过你的车你可以直接跳过去。
en:And for anybody who wants to strapon some wings and go flying one day,Mars has a lot less gravity than on Earth,and it&#39;s the kind of placewhere you can jump over your carinstead of walk around it.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:如你所见，火星并不是像地球，但是这是整个太阳系里除地球外最适合居住的地方了。
en:Now, as you can see,Mars isn&#39;t exactly Earth-like,but it&#39;s by far the most livableother place in our entire solar system.
时间： 3:44
zh-cn:不过有个问题。去火星路途遥远是地月距离的一千倍。月亮在四十万公里外阿波罗号载着宇航员去那里要三天的时间。火星在四亿公里以外要八个月我们才能到达，也就是240天。而且我们每年只有两次机会，趁地球和火星成一条线的的时候在这个特殊的日子特殊的时间降落，因为这时候火箭运行的距离才是最短的。所有人在火箭里待240天简直就是度日如年。
en:Here&#39;s the problem.Mars is a long way away,a thousand times farther awayfrom us than our own moon.The Moon is 250,000 miles awayand it took Apollo astronautsthree days to get there.Mars is 250 million miles awayand it will take useight months to get there —240 days.And that&#39;s only if we launchon a very specific day,at a very specific time,once every two years,when Mars and the Earthare aligned just so,so the distance that the rocketwould have to travel will be the shortest.240 days is a long time to spendtrapped with your colleagues in a tin can.
时间： 4:29
zh-cn:而且翻看过去我们去火星的记录也不是很理想。我们、俄罗斯人、欧洲人、日本人中国人和印度人一共发射了44只火箭，大部分都消失或者坠毁了。只有三分之一的火箭成功到达了火星。
en:And meanwhile, our track recordof getting to Mars is lousy.We and the Russians,the Europeans, the Japanese,the Chinese and the Indians,have actually sent 44 rockets there,and the vast majority of themhave either missed or crashed.Only about a third of the missionsto Mars have been successful.
时间： 4:48
zh-cn:而且我们现在也没有可以到达火星的足够大的火箭。我们曾经有一只叫做土星五号的大火箭。几只土星五号就可以把我们送过去。那是人类迄今为止制造的最大的机器，它也正是带我们去月球的那只火箭。但是在最后一只土星五号火箭1973年把宇宙空间站送上太空后继续登陆火星，转而开始研发航天飞机。目前我们所拥有的最大火箭只有当时的一半大。
en:And we don&#39;t at the moment havea rocket big enough to get there anyway.We once had that rocket, the Saturn V.A couple of Saturn Vswould have gotten us there.It was the most magnificentmachine ever built by humans,and it was the rocketthat took us to the Moon.But the last Saturn V was used in 1973to launch the Skylab space station,and we decided to dosomething called the shuttleinstead of continuing on to Marsafter we landed on the Moon.The biggest rocket we have nowis only half big enoughto get us anything to Mars.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:所以去火星并不容易。那么问题来了第一批人类登陆火星还要多久？
en:So getting to Mars is not going to be easyand that brings upa really interesting question ...how soon will the first humansactually land here?
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:一些专家认为进展顺利的话，2025年我们可以成功登陆火星。
en:Now, some pundits thinkif we got there by 2050,that&#39;d be a pretty good achievement.
时间： 5:42
zh-cn:最近NASA似乎认为2040年前就可以送人类登陆火星。也许他们可以做到。我认为他们可以在2035年之前就把人送入火星轨道。但是坦白说，我不认为他们在2035年还会操心发射火箭到火星的事情，因为我们已经在那里了。
en:These days, NASA seems to be sayingthat it can get humans to Mars by 2040.Maybe they can.I believe that they can gethuman beings into Mars orbit by 2035.But frankly,I don&#39;t think they&#39;re going to botherin 2035 to send a rocket to Mars,because we will already be there.
时间： 6:04
zh-cn:我们将要在2027年登陆火星。因为有人下决心做到这件事。他叫埃隆·马斯克特斯拉和SpaceX公司的CEO。实际上他跟我说2025年前我们就可以登陆火星，但是埃隆·马斯克比我要乐观，这是他的行事方式，所以我多给他两年作为缓冲。不过，大家可能会怀疑，这个人真的可以在2025年到2027年间做到么？
en:We&#39;re going to land on Mars in 2027.And the reason isthis man is determinedto make that happen.His name is Elon Musk,he&#39;s the CEO of Tesla Motors and SpaceX.Now, he actually told methat we would land on Mars by 2025,but Elon Musk is moreoptimistic than I am —and that&#39;s going a ways —so I&#39;m giving hima couple of years of slack.Still ...you&#39;ve got to ask yourself,can this guy really do thisby 2025 or 2027?
时间： 6:39
zh-cn:我们先看一下有埃隆·马斯克的十年是如何发展的。十年前是怎样的？这是特斯拉电动汽车。2005年很多汽车产业的人表示50年后我们才会有一辆高级的电动汽车。
en:Well, let&#39;s put a decade with Elon Muskinto a little perspective.Where was this 10 years ago?That&#39;s the Tesla electric automobile.In 2005, a lot of peoplein the automobile industry were saying,we would not havea decent electric car for 50 years.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:十年前的火箭产业呢？这是SpaceX的猎鹰9号运载火箭满载六吨物资去往国际空间站。十年前，SpaceX还没有发射过任何火箭。所以我认为一个用不到十年时间颠覆整个汽车产业并且白手起家创造整个火箭产业的人是可以在2027年前带我们上火星的。
en:And where was that?That is SpaceX&#39;s Falcon 9 rocket,lifting six tons of suppliesto the International Space Station.10 years ago,SpaceX had not launched anything,or fired a rocket to anywhere.So I think it&#39;s a pretty good betthat the person who is revolutionizingthe automobile industryin less than 10 yearsand the person who created an entirerocket company in less than 10 yearswill get us to Mars by 2027.
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:你要知道：政府和机器人不再是太空飞行的掌控者，私人公司跳跃式的发展进入太空，他们很乐意带我们去火星。
en:Now, you need to know this:governments and robotsno longer control this game.Private companies are leaping into spaceand they will be happyto take you to Mars.
时间： 7:44
zh-cn:不过随之而来的问题是我们真的可以在火星生存么？NASA也许直到2040年才可以把我们送到火星，也许我们在NASA之前就已经到达火星了，但是NASA需要解决我们在火星如何生存的问题。
en:And that raises a really big question.Can we actually live there?Now, NASA may not be ableto get us there until 2040,or we may get therea long time before NASA,but NASA has taken a huge responsibilityin figuring out how we can live on Mars.
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:我们换个方式看这个问题。这是在地球上生存的必需品：食物、水、住所和衣物。这是在火星上生存的必需品：上面的所有加上氧气。
en:Let&#39;s look at the problem this way.Here&#39;s what you need to live on Earth:food, water, shelter and clothing.And here&#39;s what you need to live on Mars:all of the above, plus oxygen.
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:我们先说单子上最重要的东西。我们都知道水是生命之源，从地球带水去火星是不可能的，所以想要成功殖民火星我们必须找到水源。乍一看火星是很干燥的，整个行星就像一个大沙漠，但实际上并非如此。仅仅火星上的泥土就包含60%的水。仍然盘旋在火星上空的人造卫星的照片告诉我们，顺便说一句这是一张真实照片，很多火星环形山中间都被冰所覆盖。在这里殖民就不错。
en:So let&#39;s look at the mostimportant thing on this list first.Water is the basisof all life as we know it,and it&#39;s far too heavy for us to carrywater from the Earth to Mars to live,so we have to find waterif our life is going to succeed on Mars.And if you look at Mars,it looks really dry,it looks like the entireplanet is a desert.But it turns out that it&#39;s not.The soil alone on Marscontains up to 60 percent water.And a number of orbiters that we stillhave flying around Mars have shown us —and by the way,that&#39;s a real photograph —that lots of craters on Marshave a sheet of water ice in them.It&#39;s not a bad place to start a colony.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:这是2008年凤凰号火星登录器进行的小小的挖掘的照片，可以看到地表下就是冰，白色的就是冰，第二张图拍摄于第一张图之后四天，你可以看到部分冰升华了。
en:Now, here&#39;s a view of a little digthe Phoenix Lander did in 2008,showing that just belowthe surface of the soil is ice —that white stuff is ice.In the second picture,which is four days laterthan the first picture,you can see thatsome of it is evaporating.
时间： 9:19
zh-cn:卫星也告诉我们火星地下水和冰山资源都非常丰富。实际上如果所有火星两级的冰融化了，火星上绝大部分地方都会被9米深的水所覆盖。所以水资源很丰富。不过大多数是冰 大多数在地下，需要大量人力和能源去开采和挖掘。
en:Orbiters also tell usthat there are huge amountsof underground water on Marsas well as glaciers.In fact, if only the water iceat the poles on Mars melted,most of the planetwould be under 30 feet of water.So there&#39;s plenty of water there,but most of it&#39;s ice,most of it&#39;s underground,it takes a lot of energy to get itand a lot of human labor.
时间： 9:43
zh-cn:这个仪器是1998年由华盛顿大学提出的设想。基本上这是一个低科技除湿器。事实上火星大气100%是非常潮湿的，这个装置可以仅仅从大气中吸取水分来满足人类需求。
en:This is a device cooked upat the University of Washingtonback in 1998.It&#39;s basically a low-tech dehumidifier.And it turns out the Mars atmosphereis often 100 percent humid.So this device can extractall the water that humans will needsimply from the atmosphere on Mars.
时间：10:03
zh-cn:接下来我们要考虑如何呼吸。坦白地说我发现NASA已经找到了解决方案时我惊呆了。这位在MIT的科学家叫做迈克尔·赫克特。他制造了这个机器，莫克西。我爱这个机器它本质上是一个反向燃料电池，吸收火星的大气释放氧气。96%的火星大气成分二氧化碳基本上可以转化成为78%的氧气。
en:Next we have to worryabout what we will breathe.Frankly, I was really shockedto find out that NASAhas this problem worked out.This is a scientist at MITnamed Michael Hecht.And he&#39;s developed this machine, Moxie.I love this thing.It&#39;s a reverse fuel cell, essentially,that sucks in the Martian atmosphereand pumps out oxygen.And you have to remember that CO2 —carbon dioxide, which is96 percent of Mars&#39; atmosphere —CO2 is basically 78 percent oxygen.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:2020年下一个NASA发射的巨型探测器将会携带这些装置去火星，它可以制造足够一个人一生取之不尽的氧气。神奇的是，这只是在试验阶段，神奇的是这个装置从一开始被设计成可以扩展到100倍大小的规模。
en:Now, the next big roverthat NASA sends to Mars in 2020is going to have oneof these devices aboard,and it will be ableto produce enough oxygento keep one person alive indefinitely.But the secret to this —and that&#39;s just for testing —the secret to this is that this thingwas designed from the get-goto be scalable by a factor of 100.
时间：10:57
zh-cn:接下来我们吃什么？我们用水培法种植作物，不过我们的种植规模不能超过我们粮食需求的15-20%。除非火星表面已经被水覆盖并且我们有可能也有能力种植作物。否则在此期间，食物大多是干燥后从地球运输过来。
en:Next, what will we eat?Well, we&#39;ll use hydroponics to grow food,but we&#39;re not going to be able to growmore than 15 to 20 percentof our food there,at least not until water is runningon the surface of Marsand we actually have the probabilityand the capability of planting crops.In the meantime,most of our food will arrive from Earth,and it will be dried.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:接下来，我们需要住处一开始我们可以住在充气密封建筑里和着陆器本身之中。但是这只在白天才能实现。太阳辐射和宇宙射线太多了，所以我们必须躲进地下。
en:And then we need some shelter.At first we can use inflatable,pressurized buildingsas well as the landers themselves.But this really only worksduring the daytime.There is too much solar radiationand too much radiation from cosmic rays.So we really have to go underground.
时间：11:40
zh-cn:已经证实火星上的土壤基本上很适合制造砖块。NASA也发现了这个特点，他们在砖块里掺入一些聚合塑料，然后在微波炉里挤压，这样你就可以用这些非常厚实的砖块建造房屋了。或者我们可以选择在火星上大量的洞穴和熔岩洞里面居住。
en:Now, it turns out that the soil on Mars,by and large,is perfect for making bricks.And NASA has figured this one out, too.They&#39;re going to throwsome polymer plastic into the bricks,shove them in a microwave oven,and then you will be able to buildbuildings with really thick walls.Or we may choose to live undergroundin caves or in lava tubes,of which there are plenty.
时间：12:05
zh-cn:最后是衣物。在地球我们有厚厚的大气堆在我们身上，一直给予我们身体15磅的压力。我们已经习惯抵抗这部分压力了。火星上几乎没有大气压力，所以达瓦·纽曼，这个MIT的科学家，制造了这个光滑的宇航服。它可以让我们连在一起，抵抗射线，并且保持体温。
en:And finally there&#39;s clothing.On Earth we have milesof atmosphere piled up on us,which creates 15 pounds of pressureon our bodies at all times,and we&#39;re constantlypushing out against that.On Mars there&#39;s hardlyany atmospheric pressure.So Dava Newman,a scientist at MIT,has created this sleek space suit.It will keep us together,block radiation and keep us warm.
时间：12:31
zh-cn:所以仔细想一下，有了食物、住所、衣物、水源和氧气，万事俱备。前途是光明的，但是道路是曲折的。
en:So let&#39;s think about this for a minute.Food, shelter, clothing, water, oxygen ...we can do this.We really can.But it&#39;s still a little complicatedand a little difficult.
时间：12:44
zh-cn:接下来要解决的问题是一个重要的问题：如何在火星很好的生活。答案是地球化这个星球：让它更像地球一些，重新改造整个星球。
en:So that leads to the next big —really big step —in living the good life on Mars.And that&#39;s terraforming the planet:making it more like Earth,reengineering an entire planet.
时间：12:59
zh-cn:听起来好像过于狂妄了，可是实际上所有所需要的科技我们已经有了。
en:That sounds like a lot of hubris,but the truth isthat the technology to do everythingI&#39;m about to tell you already exists.
时间：13:07
zh-cn:首先我们先把气候变暖，因为大气层稀薄火星非常的冷。解决方案是， 火星的南极北极都覆盖着大量的固态二氧化碳也就是干冰。如果我们加热它们，它们会直接升华并增加大气层的厚度，和地球的情况一样。
en:First we&#39;ve got to warm it up.Mars is incredibly coldbecause it has a very thin atmosphere.The answer lies here, at the south poleand at the north pole of Mars,both of which are coveredwith an incredible amountof frozen carbon dioxide —dry ice.If we heat it up,it sublimes directly into the atmosphereand thickens the atmospherethe same way it does on Earth.
时间：13:31
zh-cn:我们都知道，二氧化碳是非常强大的温室气体。这是我非常喜欢的一个办法，建造一块非常非常大的太阳光反射器使它聚焦太阳光反射器本质上就是一面镜子把焦点一开始对在火星的南极随着星球自转镜子会加热并升华所有的干冰二氧化碳会进入到大气之中。实际上火星的气温很快就会开始升高，大概不到20年就可以。
en:And as we know,CO2 is an incrediblypotent greenhouse gas.Now, my favorite way of doing thisis to erect a very, very large solar sailand focus it —it essentially serves as a mirror —and focus it on the south poleof Mars at first.As the planet spins, it will heat upall that dry ice, sublime it,and it will go into the atmosphere.It actually won&#39;t take longfor the temperatureon Mars to start rising,probably less than 20 years.
时间：14:01
zh-cn:现在，如果是夏天中的大晴天在火星的赤道上气温可以达到将近21摄氏度。但是在晚上马上下降到零下73摄氏度。
en:Right now,on a perfect day at the equator,in the middle of summer on Mars,temperatures canactually reach 70 degrees,but then they go downto minus 100 at night.
时间：14:11
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：14:13
zh-cn:我们为增强火星的温室效应而努力：让火星升温这样很多火星上的冰，尤其是地下的冰融化 。接下来就是见证奇迹的时刻。
en:What we&#39;re shooting foris a runaway greenhouse effect:enough temperature riseto see a lot of that ice on Mars —especially the ice in the ground — melt.Then we get some real magic.
时间：14:27
zh-cn:大气层变厚之后一切都会好起来。我们受到更少的辐射，大气更厚，温度升得更高，我们还获得了流动的水资源，人类才有可能耕种。然后越来越多的水蒸气进入空气中这是另一种强大的温室气体。火星上会下雨，会下雪，等大气再厚一点会制造足够的压力，我们就可以脱下那些宇航服了。只要有五磅左右的压力我们就可以生存。最后火星的感觉会很像英属哥伦比亚。
en:As the atmosphere gets thicker,everything gets better.We get more protection from radiation,more atmosphere makes us warmer,makes the planet warmer,so we get running waterand that makes crops possible.Then more water vapor goes into the air,forming yet another potent greenhouse gas.It will rain and it will snow on Mars.And a thicker atmospherewill create enough pressureso that we canthrow away those space suits.We only need about five poundsof pressure to survive.Eventually, Mars will be madeto feel a lot like British Columbia.
时间：15:05
zh-cn:我们最后只剩下一个复杂的问题：就是如何制造可以呼吸的大气。实话说可能要1000年才可以做到。但是人类是非常聪明的，适应能力也极强。
en:We&#39;ll still be leftwith the complicated problemof making the atmosphere breathable,and frankly that could take1,000 years to accomplish.But humans are amazingly smartand incredibly adaptable.
时间：15:16
zh-cn:谁也不知道将来我们的科技会发展到什么程度，我们的身体可以进化到什么程度。现在的生物学马上就可以控制我们自己的基因，控制每个基因在做什么，当然，最终控制我们的进化。最终地球上的人类，也许和火星上的人类有一些小小的不同。
en:There is no telling what our futuretechnology will be able to accomplishand no telling what we can dowith our own bodies.In biology right now,we are on the very verge of beingable to control our own genetics,what the genesin our own bodies are doing,and certainly,eventually, our own evolution.We could end up with a speciesof human being on Earththat is slightly differentfrom the species of human beings on Mars.
时间：15:49
zh-cn:但是我们在火星做什么？怎么生活呢？就像在地球一样，有人开饭店，有人铸铁，有人拍摄火星的纪录电影，卖给地球的人，一些笨蛋开拍一些真人秀。
en:But what would you do there?How would you live?It&#39;s going to bethe same as it is on Earth.Somebody&#39;s going to start a restaurant,somebody&#39;s going to build an iron foundry.Someone will makedocumentary movies of Marsand sell them on Earth.Some idiot will start a reality TV show.
时间：16:08
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：16:10
zh-cn:那里将会有软件公司，酒店，酒吧。
en:There will be software companies,there will be hotels, there will be bars.
时间：16:16
zh-cn:有一点是确定的：这将是我们人生中最重大的转折，同时也将是最振奋人心的事件。
en:This much is certain:it will be the most disruptiveevent in our lifetimes,and I think it will be the most inspiring.
时间：16:25
zh-cn:问一个十岁的女孩儿是否愿意去火星。现在上小学的孩子可以选择是否去那里居住。
en:Ask any 10-year-old girlif she wants to go to Mars.Children who are now in elementary schoolare going to choose to live there.
时间：16:35
zh-cn:想想我们登月的时候发生了什么？大家看着彼此说：“如果我们成功，人类将所向披靡。”那么如果我们真的殖民火星我们将会怎么想呢？
en:Remember when we landedhumans on the Moon?When that happened,people looked at each other and said,&quot;If we can do this, we can do anything.&quot;What are they going to thinkwhen we actually form a colony on Mars?
时间：16:49
zh-cn:更重要的是，这将使我们成为航天物种。这意味着无论地球发生什么我们都不会灭绝。我们这一代绝不会灭亡。
en:Most importantly,it will make us a spacefaring species.And that means humans will surviveno matter what happens on Earth.We will never be the last of our kind.
时间：17:03
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:04
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
