时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我今天想要谈的是虚拟世界,数字地球,三维网络和网络虚拟实境.这些东西对于我们意味着什么?这意味着网络又将变成一个令人激动的地方.让我们非常兴奋的是随着我们加入这个身临其境和高度交互的世界,这个拥有各种图形,高计算能力和低延迟的世界.这类的应用程序和它创造的可能性将把丰富的数据流带进你的生活.所以,虚拟地球的出现, 或者其它这种类型的程序的出现,都是关于扩展我们当前的搜索方法的.
en:What I want to talk to you about today isvirtual worlds, digital globes, the 3-D Web, the Metaverse.What does this all mean for us?What it means is the Web is going to become an exciting place again.It&#39;s going to become super exciting as we transformto this highly immersive and interactive world.With graphics, computing power, low latencies,these types of applications and possibilitiesare going to stream rich data into your lives.So the Virtual Earth initiative, and other types of these initiatives,are all about extending our current search metaphor.
时间： 0:59
zh-cn:思考一下,我们在浏览网络时总是被限制着.记网址,保存到&quot;我的最爱&quot;.当搜索出现后,我们依赖于相关性排名,网络匹配和索引检索.但我们要用我们的大脑!我们要自己去航行,探索和发现信息.为了这样做,我们必须把用户放回驾驶员的座位上.我们需要你与网络和计算机之间的合作.
en:When you think about it, we&#39;re so constrained by browsing the Web,remembering URLs, saving favorites.As we move to search, we rely on the relevance rankings,the Web matching, the index crawling.But we want to use our brain!We want to navigate, explore, discover information.In order to do that, we have to put you as a user back in the driver&#39;s seat.We need cooperation between you and the computing network and the computer.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:有什么更好的方法比把你放在驾驶员的座位上把你放在每天都接触的真实世界里还要好呢?为什么不去利用你在生活中学过的知识呢?所以,虚拟地球是关于创造第一个数字表达的,综合的世界.我们要做的是混合所有类型的数据.给它做上标记,加上属性和元数据. 理解本地社区并加上本地内容— 全球的视角, 本地的知识.那么,当你思考这个问题的时候,这是多么大的一个任务. 你想, 从哪儿着手做呢?我们通过卫星,飞机地面车辆和人来采集数据.这是我们的方法, 你知道, 这是一个工程问题.一个机械问题, 一个逻辑问题和一个运营问题.
en:So what better way to put you back in the driver&#39;s seatthan to put you in the real world that you interact in every day?Why not leverage the learnings that you&#39;ve been learning your entire life?So Virtual Earth is about starting offcreating the first digital representation, comprehensive, of the entire world.What we want to do is mix in all types of data.Tag it. Attribute it. Metadata. Get the community to add local depth,global perspective, local knowledge.So when you think about this problem,what an enormous undertaking. Where do you begin?Well, we collect data from satellites, from airplanes,from ground vehicles, from people.This process is an engineering problem,a mechanical problem, a logistical problem, an operational problem.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:这是航空摄像机的一个例子.这是一个全色相机. 它其实有四个彩色锥体.另外, 它是多光谱的.我们每秒种可以采集到4GB的数据,如果你能想像这种数据流传输下来,那相当于一个12个卫星的星座用最高清分辨率拍摄的数据量.我们驾驶这些飞机到5000英尺的高空;你可以看到前置摄像机. 我们选择多视点, 有利位置, 角度, 结构. 我们把数据带回来.
en:Here is an example of our aerial camera.This is panchromatic. It&#39;s actually four color cones.In addition, it&#39;s multi-spectral.We collect four gigabits per second of data,if you can imagine that kind of data stream coming down.That&#39;s equivalent to a constellation of 12 satellites at highest res capacity.We fly these airplanes at 5,000 feet in the air.You can see the camera on the front. We collect multiple viewpoints,vantage points, angles, textures. We bring all that data back in.
时间： 2:49
zh-cn:我们坐在这儿 — 你知道, 关于地面车辆和人的比例.你自己看到了什么? 我们需要近距离捕捉他们来建立一种逼真的体验.我想你们大多数人都看过Apple商业展广告,有点嘲笑PC电脑来表现出他们的简洁和光辉.那么, 一个不为人知秘密是 —你有没有看到一个带着网络摄像机的家伙?这个可怜的PC男孩, 头上带着管子, 他们给他包装成那样儿.好, 一个不为人知的秘密是他的哥哥,其实在虚拟地球研发团队工作.(笑声). 那么, 那里表达一些兄弟之间对抗的东西.但我告诉你 — 这没有影响他每天的工作.
en:We sit here — you know, think about the ground vehicles, the human scale —what do you see in person? We need to capture that up closeto establish that what it&#39;s like-type experience.I bet many of you have seen the Apple commercials,kind of poking at the PC for their brilliance and simplicity.So a little unknown secret is —did you see the one with the guy, he&#39;s got the Web cam?The poor PC guy. They&#39;re duct taping his head. They&#39;re just wrapping it on him.Well, a little unknown secret is his brother actually works on the Virtual Earth team.(Laughter). So they&#39;ve got a little bit of a sibling rivalry thing going on here.But let me tell you — it doesn&#39;t affect his day job.
时间： 3:30
zh-cn:我们想像这个科技带来很多的好处.这是在Katrina飓风之后. 我们曾是灾难区域里的第一个商业飞行队.我们飞到那个区域,拍下照片, 发给大家. 我们在灾区深入拍摄图片.我们帮助应急救生员, 搜索和营救.常常是人们是首先通过虚拟地球看到他们房屋的情况.我们通过网络把这些免费提供给所有人, 是为了 — 你知道,这明显是我们为灾区人们提供帮助的机会.
en:We think a lot of good can come from this technology.This was after Katrina. We were the first commercial fleet of airplanesto be cleared into the disaster impact zone.We flew the area. We imaged it. We sent in people. We took pictures of interiors,disaster areas. We helped with the first responders, the search and rescue.Often the first time anyone saw what happened to their house was on Virtual Earth.We made it all freely available on the Web, just to —it was obviously our chance of helping out with the cause.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:当我们思考它时, 你知道, 这些东西如何组合到一起的.全是关于软件, 算法和数学.你知道, 我们捕捉图像,但是为了构建三维模型,我们需要做地理定位. 我们需要做图片的地理标记.我们必须收集调整他们. 找到联结点.完全是图像的几何学.这个过程完全是个计算的过程.实际上, 几乎都是通过人工去计算的.好莱坞愿意花上百万美金去计算电影中的一个小市区走廊因为他们必须用手工计算.他们用激光扫描探测技术在街道上驾驶.他们收集图片信息; 他们手工建造每个大楼.我们做这些完全通过软件, 算法和数学.一个高度自动化的流水线来建造这些城市.我们在建造这些城市的费用上加一个小数点.这就是我们为什么能把规模做大并且将现实转化成虚拟.
en:When we think about how all this comes together,it&#39;s all about software, algorithms and math.You know, we capture this imagery but to build the 3-D modelswe need to do geo-positioning. We need to do geo-registering of the images.We have to bundle adjust them. Find tie points.Extract geometry from the images.This process is a very calculated process.In fact, it was always done manual.Hollywood would spend millions of dollars to do a small urban corridorfor a movie because they&#39;d have to do it manually.They&#39;d drive the streets with lasers called LIDAR.They&#39;d collected information with photos. They&#39;d manually build each building.We do this all through software, algorithms and math —a highly automated pipeline creating these cities.We took a decimal point off what it cost to build these cities,and that&#39;s how we&#39;re going to be able to scale this out and make this reality a dream.
时间： 4:50
zh-cn:我们考虑用户界面.采用多视角意味着什么?一个鸟瞰视角, 一个垂直俯视. 你要如何保持图像的精度的同时保持模型的流畅性?我会给你展示 —这是个全新的俯视图我还没有放入虚拟地球的实验室区域.我们要做的是 — 人们喜欢这个我们要做的鸟瞰图. 是高解析度的数据.但我们发现他们像三维模型的流畅度.孩子们可以使用Xbox或游戏机去探索.
en:We think about the user interface.What does it mean to look at it from multiple perspectives?An ortho-view, a nadir-view. How do you keep the precision of the fidelity of the imagerywhile maintaining the fluidity of the model?I&#39;ll wrap up by showing you the —this is a brand-new peek I haven&#39;t really shown into the lab area of Virtual Earth.What we&#39;re doing is — people like this a lot,this bird&#39;s eye imagery we work with. It&#39;s this high resolution data.But what we&#39;ve found is they like the fluidity of the 3-D model.A child can navigate with an Xbox controller or a game controller.
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:这里,我们正尝试将图片映射到三维模型空间中.你可以看到所有的分辨率. 从这里,我可以慢慢平移图像.我可以看到下一张图片, 我可以结合和过渡.做这些操作时,我不会损失任何细节. 实际上,我有可能在记录历史.新奇,能力. 我可以转动这个图像.我可以查看多视点和多角度.
en:So here what we&#39;re trying to do is we bring the picture and project it into the 3-D model space.You can see all types of resolution. From here, I can slowly pan the image over.I can get the next image. I can blend and transition.By doing this I don&#39;t lose the original detail. In fact, I might be recording history.The freshness, the capacity. I can turn this image.I can look at it from multiple viewpoints and angles.
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:我们正在做的是, 打造一个虚拟世界.我们希望可以计算出一个你熟悉的用户模型.可以从你的角度,从所有不同的角度浏览.谢谢.(掌声)
en:What we&#39;re trying to do is build a virtual world.We hope that we can make computing a user model you&#39;re familiar with,and really derive insights from you, from all different directions.I thank you very much for your time.(Applause)
