时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想先让你们看看我居住的地方及那地方的一张照片拍摄于我的书《涌现现象：蚂蚁、大脑、城市、和电脑软件的生命连接》（以下简称《涌现现象》）出版的那一周其实这是一张我们见过多次的照片因为《涌现现象》正好在9.11那一天出版我就住在这儿，西村（一个曼哈顿的街区，以波希米亚风格出名）事故造成的巨大烟雾向西边飘去，所幸远离了我住的地方。那时我们家刚有一个出生2天半的婴儿。这当然是我们的孩子，不是从别人那儿带走的。
en:I want to take you back basically to my hometown,and to a picture of my hometown of the weekthat &quot;Emergence&quot; came out.And it&#39;s a picture we&#39;ve seen several times.Basically, &quot;Emergence&quot; was published on 9/11.I live right there in the West Village,so the plume was luckily blowing west, away from us.We had a two-and-a-half-day-old baby in the house that was ours —we hadn&#39;t taken it from somebody else.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:50
zh-cn:我当时需要同时处理新书和新生儿这两件不同的事，而发生911的地方离我这么近，当我从我家公寓王望出去或者在公寓前面的街道边看出去，我的第一个念头是：完了，我刚在新书中提出一个很糟糕的论断。因为那本书花了很多笔墨去赞扬人口高密度的力量和创新潜能，准确的说是城市人口的高密度。赞扬它把人们联系起来并置于同一场所或同一街道，让人们交换信息并分享一起相处的物理空间。
en:And one of the thoughts that I had dealing with these two separate emergencesof a book and a baby, and having this event happen so close —that my first thought, when I was still kind of in the apartment looking out at it allor walking out on the street and looking out on it just in front of our building,was that I&#39;d made a terrible miscalculation in the book that I&#39;d just written.Because so much of that book was a celebration of the powerand creative potential of density, of largely urban density,of connecting people and putting them together in one place,and putting them on sidewalks together and having them share ideasand share physical space together.
时间： 1:29
zh-cn:当看着世贸大厦燃烧和坍塌对我来说，学到的一课就是高人口密度反而会带来伤害如果说所以曾被开发的技术都是被用在这场人类的悲剧中，也许可以让最多生命消失的技术就是建造出2栋可以同时容纳五万人并且有110层高的大楼的技术。如果那里不是塞满了人，你对比一下五角大楼和世贸的死亡人数，就可以意识到高密度的悲剧程度。因此我开始想高密度是否是一个正确的提议。我不确定。
en:And it seemed to me looking at that — that tower burning and then falling,those towers burning and falling — that in fact, one of the lessonshere was that density kills.And that of all the technologies that were exploitedto make that carnage come into being,probably the single group of technologies that cost the most liveswere those that enable 50,000 people to live in two buildings110 stories above the ground.If they hadn&#39;t been crowded —you compare the loss of life at the Pentagon to the Twin Towers,and you can see that very powerfully.And so I started to think, well, you know, density, density —I&#39;m not sure if, you know, this was the right call.
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:好多天里我都陷入这样的沉思几天后，风向开始变化，依然可以感到空气不是那么干净即使在西村的街上依然没有半辆车，我老婆还是让我去Bed Bath &amp; Beyond (美国家居装饰零售巨头) 买个大点的空气过滤器。最近的店就在20个街区以北。我只得出门。很显然像我这样体格健壮的人，根本不担心提着那鬼东西步行20个街区。我出门后发现了巨神奇的事情，在我去买空气净化器的路上发现所有的街道都很有人气。
en:And I kind of ruminated on that for a couple of days.And then about two days later, the wind started to change a little bit,and you could sense that the air was not healthy.And so even though there were no cars still in the West Villagewhere we lived, my wife sent me out to buy a, you know,a large air filter at the Bed Bath and Beyond,which was located about 20 blocks away, north.And so I went out.And obviously I&#39;m physically a very strong person, as you can tell — (Laughter) —so I wasn&#39;t worried about carrying this thing 20 blocks.And I walked out, and this really miraculous thing happened to meas I was walking north to buy this air filter,which was that the streets were completely alive with people.
时间： 2:55
zh-cn:这很不可思议。那天天气很好，也是911发生一周后西村从未显得如此有活力过。我沿着哈德逊街走,简.雅各布斯大妈曾在住那里写出了她那本《美国大城市的死于生》（城市规划专业的必读书，书中简大妈把美国60年代的城市规划批了个底朝天）那本书也对我的著作《涌现现象》有很大的影响经过白马酒馆 (在五、六十年代以波希米亚风闻名，很多作家，艺术家，及文艺女青常在此闲逛聚会),狄兰·托马斯（英国超现实主义诗人）曾在这个古老的酒馆喝到挂,许多孩子在布立克街（曼哈顿著名的夜店街）的儿童乐园玩耍所有人包括这里的居民和餐馆酒吧的老板们都钻了出来，所有的餐厅和酒吧也都在营业人们都钻了出来。街区没有车辆经过，从某种方面来说，甚至更好。那一天人们有着舒服的城市生活另外一件不可思议的就是城市依旧在正常的运转城市依旧存在。所有让一个城市变得成功的因素，所有让一个城市变得动感的因素，都在那些街道上一一展现。
en:There was an incredible — it was, you know, a beautiful day,as it was for about a week after,and the West Village had never seemed more lively.I walked up along Hudson Street —where Jane Jacobs had lived and written her great bookthat so influenced what I was writing in &quot;Emergence&quot; —past the White Horse Tavern,that great old bar where Dylan Thomas drank himself to death,and the Bleecker Street playground was filled with kids.And all the people who lived in the neighborhood,who owned restaurants and bars in the neighborhood,were all out there — had them all open.People were out.There were no cars, so it seemed even better, in some ways.And it was a beautiful urban day,and the incredible thing about it was that the city was working.The city was there.All the things that make a great city successfuland all the things that make a great city stimulating —they were all on display there on those streets.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:我想这就是城市的力量我想，当说起城市，我们都认为它们是在空间上集中并逐步中心化。但是很多时候让城市如此强大是它们非中心化的活动城市没有一个可以让你拿掉的枢纽中心从而造成所有活动停止如果真有，它可能就是世贸中心。我的意思是， 紧急地下防空洞就在那里被袭击所毁灭对建筑和生命造成了明显的伤害。但是2天后，在距它以北二十个街区的地方，城市好似从未如此的充满活力如果你进入人们的内心许多心灵的创伤依然尚未平复。许多悲痛依然尚未消失。人们还需要长时间的恢复。
en:And I thought, well, this is the power of a city.I mean, the power of the city —we talked about cities as being centralized in space,but what makes them so strong most of the timeis they&#39;re decentralized in function.They don&#39;t have a center executive branch that you can take outand cause the whole thing to fail.If they did, it probably was right there at Ground Zero.I mean, you know, the emergency bunker was right there,was destroyed by the attacks,and obviously the damage done to the building and the lives.But nonetheless, just 20 blocks north, two days later,the city had never looked more alive.If you&#39;d gone into the minds of the people,well, you would have seen a lot of trauma,and you would have seen a lot of heartache,and you would have seen a lot of things that would take a long time to recover.
时间： 4:23
zh-cn:但是这个城市自身的系统却在发展壮大。我仔细的想了想我想讲一点关于这个系统运行如此良好的原理和如何运用这些原理使得互联网发展到今天这个地步。我发现自己在问别人问题时，当我说到这《涌现现象》本书当说到涌现现象当说到群体智慧让人们听懂的最好方式就是用城市作为比喻，询问他们谁造就了这些城市中街区？谁让Soho有这样的个性？让拉丁区有那样的特点？固然其中有一些高层的战略决定但答案却是每个人和没有人每人都对它们都有一点贡献却没有人真正是这个街区的终极塑造者
en:But the system itself of this city was thriving.So I took heart in seeing that.So I wanted to talk a little bit about the reasons why that works so well,and how some of those reasons kind of mapon to where the Web is going right now.The question that I found myself asking to peoplewhen I was talking about the book afterwards is —when you&#39;ve talked about emergent behavior,when you&#39;ve talked about collective intelligence,the best way to get people to kind of wrap their heads around thatis to ask, who builds a neighborhood?Who decides that Soho should have this personalityand that the Latin Quarter should have this personality?Well, there are some kind of executive decisions,but mostly the answer is — everybody and nobody.Everybody contributes a little bit.No single person is really the ultimate actorbehind the personality of a neighborhood.
时间： 5:10
zh-cn:同样的，如果问到，在911的悲剧之后，是谁还让我所居住的社区和街道充满了活力？对，就是整个城市本身。整个系统使得它运转每个人都有一点点贡献。我们把注意力转移到互联网上，现在可以看到越来越多有趣的事情。但当《涌现现象》出版之前后，除了某些实验性的东西之外，这些有趣的事情和现象大多还不具备普遍性。所以这是一个令人乐观的年代，我只想讲其中的几件事。我相信在网络上开始出现了一种新的互动模式
en:Same thing to the question of, who was keeping the streets alivepost-9/11 in my neighborhood?Well, it was the whole city.The whole system kind of working on it,and everybody contributing a small little part.And this is increasingly what we&#39;re starting to see on the Webin a bunch of interesting ways —most of which weren&#39;t around, actually,except in very experimental things,when I was writing &quot;Emergence&quot; and when the book came out.So it&#39;s been a very optimistic time, I think,and I want to just talk about a few of those things.I think that there is effectively a new kind of model of interactivitythat&#39;s starting to emerge online right now.
时间： 5:42
zh-cn:旧的模式是这样的这不是未来英伦之王，虽然看起来像这只是一男的，我在GeoCities（一个失败的网络产品，2009雅虎将其关闭）的主页上找到的。在下方你会看到，他对足球和耶稣感兴趣以及加思·布鲁克斯（美国乡村音乐的天王），Clint Bickham（美国配音演员），还有我的家乡。这些是他网站的链接毋庸置疑这种曾让人兴奋而如此真实的互动模式类似于1995年的网络新潮玩意儿不像类似 &quot;看我狗的照片请点这里&quot;这里没有任何句子我认为没有比这东西更能唤起对那个时代的想象因为突然你有能力把你家狗的照片链接上互联网，而其他人如果正在网上也有权力点击或不点击这个链接。
en:And the old one looked like this.This is not the future King of England, although it looks like it.It&#39;s some guy, it&#39;s a GeoCities homepage of some guy that I found onlinewho&#39;s interested, if you look at the bottom, in soccer and Jesusand Garth Brooks and Clint Beckham and &quot;my hometown&quot; — those are his links.But nothing really saysthis model of interactivity — which was so exciting and captures the real,the Web Zeitgeist of 1995 — than&quot;Click here for a picture of my dog.&quot;That is — you know, there&#39;s no sentencethat kind of conjures up that period better than that, I think,which is that you suddenly have the power to put up a picture of your dogand link to it, and somebody reading the pagehas the power to click on that link or not click on that link.
时间： 6:26
zh-cn:我不想瞧不起这玩意儿。在某种程度上来说，如果引用杰夫昨天说的话，这是基本上是一种电子界面极大的增加了人们对互联网的兴趣。你放上一个链接，其他人就可以去点击它你也可以去任何你想去的网站。但这依然只是一对一的关系有人放一个链接，其他人在另外一边决定着点击或不点击新的模式却更像是这样的我们已经见过好几个例子当你在Google上搜索史蒂夫.约翰逊的时候，就会这样2个月前，我有了巨大的突破我想这会是我最大的成就之一我的个人网站终于排在了搜索结果的第一位这里有个叫史蒂夫.约翰逊的麻省理工理论物理学家他降了两位。我很开心。
en:And, you know, I don&#39;t want to belittle that. That, in a sense —to reference what Jeff was talking about yesterday —that was, in a sense, the kind of interface electricity thatpowered a lot of the explosion of interest in the Web:that you could put up a link, and somebody could click on it,and it could take you anywhere you wanted to go.But it&#39;s still a very one-to-one kind of relationship.There&#39;s one person putting up the link, and there&#39;s another personon the other end trying to decide whether to click on it or not.The new model is much more like this,and we&#39;ve already seen a couple of references to this.This is what happens when you search &quot;Steven Johnson&quot; on Google.About two months ago, I had the great breakthrough —one of my great, kind of shining achievements —which is that my website finally became a top result for &quot;Steven Johnson.&quot;There&#39;s some theoretical physicist at MIT named Steven Johnsonwho has dropped two spots, I&#39;m happy to say.
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:我以后还会再做类似的事情。对于这样的自我陶醉者，Google绝对是迄今最好用的技术只是你会在沉醉中也同时看到很多其他人的名字因为事实上创造这个搜索页面的，虽然我们都知道是怎么回事但是还是值得想一想并不是某个人。不是他来决定要让我出现在‘史蒂夫.约翰逊’的众多搜索结果中的头一个。而是所有的网民我架上我的网页，网民决定着点击或不点击。Google只是在家算着数字而已。所以这是即时的群体决策。整个互联网的网民集体编著了这个页面Google只是帮助大家把这个‘著作’清晰的表现出来。
en:And, you know, I mean, I&#39;ll look at a couple of things like this,but Google is obviously the greatest technology ever invented for navel gazing.It&#39;s just that there are so many other people in your navel when you gaze.Because effectively, what&#39;s happening here,what&#39;s creating this page, obviously — and we all know this,but it&#39;s worth just thinking about it —is not some person deciding that I am the number one answer for Steven Johnson,but rather somehow the entire web of peopleputting up pages and deciding to link to my page or not link to it,and Google just sitting there and running the numbers.So there&#39;s this collective decision-making that&#39;s going on.This page is effectively, collectively authored by the Web,and Google is just helping uskind of to put the authorship in one kind of coherent place.
时间： 8:04
zh-cn:现在它们更创新的，当然Google一直都很具创新性。我发现有一些在这基础上的新的技术。有个非常有趣的新网站 - 叫Technorati （一家专门搜索博客的搜索网站）充满了各种网络小应用程序并逐步扩展他们。它关注的是整个博客世界。简单的说，就是分析他追踪所有博客同时也追踪有多少其他博客链接到之前所追踪的博客。因此得出一个所谓的权威榜一个被其他博客链接许多次的博客比一个只被链接几次而已的博客更具权威性。所以在任何时间，任何网页上，如果你想知道博客界如何看待这个网页。你就可以得到这份列表。这里可以看到博客界如何看我的网站 - 这是根据博客权威性的排名也可以根据更新的帖子排名
en:Now, they&#39;re more innovative — well, Google&#39;s pretty innovative —but there are some new twists on this.There&#39;s this incredibly interesting new site — Technorati —that&#39;s filled with lots of little widgets that are expanding on these.And these are looking in the blog world and the world of weblogs.He&#39;s analyzed basically all the weblogs out there that he&#39;s tracking.And he&#39;s tracking how many other weblogs linked to those weblogs,and so you have kind of an authority —a weblog that has a lot of links to itis more authoritative than a weblog that has few links to it.And so at any given time, on any given page on the Web, actually,you can say, what does the weblog community think about this page?And you can get a list.This is what they think about my site; it&#39;s ranked by blog authority.You can also rank it by the latest posts.
时间： 8:48
zh-cn:在《涌现现象》中我提到单向链接的局限性基本上就是你可以链接到任何人但他们却对你的连接毫不知情。这也是为什么互联网还不具备本该有的涌现性。因为只有双向的链接和互动机制才能真正做到一些牛逼的事情。因此像Technorati类似的网站提供了这样服务这里有段来自大卫•温伯格(美国著名的网络思想家）的话他认为所有互联网上的事物都是有目的性的都是人为而非自然的他说，如果现在有一个链接在这里你看见那个链接是因为另外一个人决定放在这里，一个网页的链接不会像树菌一样在另外一个网页上长出来。
en:So when I was talking in &quot;Emergence,&quot;I talked about the limitations of the one-way linking architecturethat, basically, you could link to somebody elsebut they wouldn&#39;t necessarily know that you were pointing to them.And that was one of the reasons why the webwasn&#39;t quite as emergent as it could bebecause you needed two-way linking, you needed that kind of feedback mechanismto be able to really do interesting things.Well, something like Technorati is supplying that.Now what&#39;s interesting here is that this is a quote from Dave Weinberger,where he talks about everything being purposive in the Web —there&#39;s nothing artificial.He has this line where he says, you know, you&#39;re going to put up a link there,if you see a link, somebody decided to put it there.And he says, the link to one site didn&#39;t just grow on the other page &quot;like a tree fungus.&quot;
时间： 9:28
zh-cn:但我不认为这个理论完全正确如果在我主页右边放一个来自Technorati所有链接的订阅点(feed)它会随着整个互联网的生态变化而变化这个列表会变化我却不能直接按照我的意志控制它在某种程度上来看，这更像一个数据似的真菌在我的网页上不断的生长，而非一个我刻意放在这边并由我操控的的链接这基本上就是个全球脑（地球是一个脑，每个人是一个神经元的理论）基于此你可以做很多不同的实验，看看这个‘脑’在想些什么。现在有很多好玩的工具Google开发了Google Zeitgeist (google网络查询分析程序，分析搜索的关键词和热门网站）可以通过搜索的信息观察发生的事情和人们的喜好最后发布一些有趣的数据图像。我一直在为Google背书，但现在我要提出一点批评
en:And in fact, I think that&#39;s not entirely true anymore.I could put up a feed of all those links generated by Technoration the right-hand side of my page,and they would change as the overall ecology of the Web changes.That little list there would change.I wouldn&#39;t really be directly in control of it.So it&#39;s much closer, in a way, to a data fungus, in a sense,wrapped around that page, than it is to a deliberate link that I&#39;ve placed there.Now, what you&#39;re having here is basically a global brainthat you&#39;re able to do lots of kind of experiments on to see what it&#39;s thinking.And there are all these interesting tools.Google does the Google Zeitgeist,which looks at search requests to test what&#39;s going on, what people are interested in,and they publish it with lots of fun graphs.And I&#39;m saying a lot of nice things about Google,so I&#39;ll be I&#39;ll be saying one little critical thing.
时间：10:13
zh-cn:Google Zeitgeist的一个问题就是通过它得到的信息往往都是众人都在搜索艳照门的照片，但这已经不是什么新知了。当哥伦比亚号航天飞机遇难后，突然出现很多关于哥伦比亚号的搜索当然我们可以预估到它的发生这不是我们以前未知的。这些新工具它们可以探测‘全球脑’的深度也可以释放类似于染色原料在血液循环系统中，去追踪和分析趋势。但问题的关键是，我们是不是可以从中找到一些新的东西？
en:There&#39;s a problem with the Google Zeitgeist,which is it often comes back with news that a lot of people are searchingfor Britney Spears pictures, which is not necessarily news.The Columbia blows up, suddenly there are a lot of searches on Columbia.Well, you know, we should expect to see that.That&#39;s not necessarily something we didn&#39;t know already.So the key thing in terms of these new toolsthat are kind of plumbing the depths of the global brain,that are sending kind of trace dyes through that whole bloodstream —the question is, are you finding out something new?
时间：10:42
zh-cn:我曾经试过的一个叫GoogleShare的新玩意儿。实际上就是你放一个词在google上搜索,然后把这个词和某人名字再一起搜索。所以这个词的搜索页面数和它加了到某人名字的搜索页面数的百分比即为这个人的关于这个词的GoogleShare.（其实就是这个人和这个词的关联度）你可以搞个有趣的比赛比如TED大会的GoogleShare理查德·沃尔曼（TED大会的创始人）拥有15%TED大会的GoogleShare我们的好朋友克里斯也占有6%，但我也许会加一个小数点
en:And one of the things that I experimented with is this thing called Google Sharewhich is basically, you take an abstract term,and you search Google for that term,and then you search the results that you get back for somebody&#39;s name.So basically, the number of pages that mention this term,that also mention this page, the percentage of those pagesis that person&#39;s Google Share of that term.So you can do kind of interesting contests.Like for instance, this is a Google Share of the TED Conference.So Richard Saul Wurmanhas about a 15 percent Google Share of the TED conference.Our good friend Chris has about a six percent — but with a bullet, I might add.
时间：11:22
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:24
zh-cn:好玩的是，如果你把搜索扩展一点会发现曼波魚居然占42%。我被雷到了。你们被忽悠了。（笑声）这是我编的，因为我只想放一张曼波魚的照片
en:But the interesting thing is, you can broaden the search a little bit.And it turns out, actually, that 42 percent is the Mola mola fish.I had no idea.No, that&#39;s not true.(Laughter)I made that up because I just wanted to put up a slideof the Mola mola fish.
时间：11:40
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:42
zh-cn:我不想和下一组人马打起来，但我在Google Share中做了一个进化与物竞天择的分析你可以看到，由于这是个很大的范畴，所以只得到很小的百分比。Dan Dennett（美国感知哲学教授）占0.7%，他等会儿会登台演说。在他之后，Steven Pinker（美国心理学届大牛）占0.5%所以Dannett领先一点点。如果把搜索的结果扩展一些，实际上你会看到一些有趣的搜索结果比如Gary Bauer（美国政治家，和基督教关系密切）的百分比只落后一点点当然他对进化论和自然选择有不同的见解在他下面就是L. Ron Hubbard（美国的李大师），所以。。。（笑声）我们好像置身于赛马场，多说一句，克里斯，这会是非常好的一组演讲者。我想，现在...
en:I also did — and I don&#39;t want to start a little fight in the next panel —but I did a Google Share analysis of evolution and natural selection.So right here — now this is a big category, you have smaller percentages,so this is 0.7 percent — Dan Dennett, who&#39;ll be speaking shortly.Right below him, 0.5 percent, Steven Pinker.So Dennett&#39;s in the lead a little bit there.But what&#39;s interesting is you can then broaden the searchand actually see interesting things and get a sense of what else is out there.So Gary Bauer is not too far behind —has slightly different theories about evolution and natural selection.And right behind him is L. Ron Hubbard. So —(Laughter)you can see we&#39;re in the ascot, which is always good.And by the way, Chris, that would&#39;ve been a really good panel,I think, right there.
时间：12:29
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:34
zh-cn:除了这，Hubbard显然已经开始着手准备了。我想明年的大会将很有趣另外一件事，和这个主题有点不同的事你们可能已经看过这个分析报告。它才被发表。就是关于热门词。关于历届美国国情咨文的演说的热门词。这些次不知从哪里突然冒出来的好像随机显示储存的信息似的。却在历史上没有什么先例。第一组，这是1860年热门词。奴隶，解放，奴隶制，反抗，堪萨斯这是那个年代的‘艳照门’（2008搜索热门词）。1860年他们关心的是奴隶制，很有趣。1935年，解脱，抑郁，银行业复苏我没有了解到什么新的东西，因为这太显而易见了。1985年，里根执政期间，‘那是’、‘我们是’、’这里是‘、‘我们曾经’、‘它是’
en:Hubbard apparently started to reach, but besides that,I think it would be good next year.Another quick thing — this is a slightly different thing,but this analysis some of you may have seen.It just came out. This is bursty words,looking at the historical record of State of the Union Addresses.So these are words that suddenly start to appear out of nowhere,so they&#39;re kind of, you know, memes that start taking off,that didn&#39;t have a lot of historical precedent before.So the first one is — these are the bursty words around 1860s —slaves, emancipation, slavery, rebellion, Kansas.That&#39;s Britney Spears. I mean, you know, OK, interesting.They&#39;re talking about slavery in 1860.1935 — relief, depression, recovery banks.And OK, I didn&#39;t learn anything new there as well — that&#39;s pretty obvious.1985, right at the center of the Reagan years —that&#39;s, we&#39;re, there&#39;s, we&#39;ve, it&#39;s.
时间：13:21
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：13:23
zh-cn:用一种方式来解读它们就是‘解放’、‘抑郁’、‘复苏’这些词都有很多音节可以下载存储，但很难人为的记住它们。但另一方面，你可以看到当然这方面很难察觉到的是里根重新改造这个国家的政治语言。逐步过渡到更亲切，更简单，更适于广播的口语动词20年前，大家喜欢嚷嚷着‘不要问国家为你做了什么...’（肯尼迪总统的名言）但里根却喜欢用 ‘那是’、‘那是’、这里有南希和我‘，这类的语句。我们也许知道这些但你根本不会在语法上注意到他是这样使用的。我会说的非常快。现在的问题是，这是一个相当有趣的问题：怎样的一种更高级的形态正在兴起在整个网络生态系统中，特别是在博客的生态系统中因为它们似乎真正处在最前沿
en:Now, there&#39;s one way to interpret this, which is to say that&quot;emancipation&quot; and &quot;depression&quot; and &quot;recovery&quot; all have a lot of syllables.So you know, you can actually download — it&#39;s hard to remember those.But seriously, actually, what you can see there,in a way that would be very hard to detect otherwise,is Reagan reinventing the political language of the countryand shifting to a much more intimate, much more folksy, much more telegenic —contracting all those verbs.You know, 20 years before it was still, &quot;Ask not what you can do,&quot;but with Reagan, it&#39;s, &quot;that&#39;s where, there&#39;s Nancy and I,&quot; that kind of language.And so something we kind of knew,but you didn&#39;t actually notice syntactically what he was doing.I&#39;ll go very quickly.The question now — and this is the really interesting question —is, what kind of higher-level shape is emerging right nowin the overall Web ecosystem — and particularly in the ecosystem of the blogsbecause they are really kind of at the cutting edge.
时间：14:14
zh-cn:我认为发生在博客界的事，将来也会发生在外部的系统中。克莱·舍基（写《未来是湿的》的那位帅哥）写了一篇很有趣的文章在近一个月内吸引了很多眼球，之后这篇文章分散出很多网络链接链接到不同的博客上。它也遵循了冪次法则（长尾理论和80/20定律的数学原理），因此少数出名的博客被大量很多链接，而大部分博客只被极少链接。所以20%的博客有拥有80%的链接这是一件有趣的事©也引起许多争议因为人们认为互联网是一种现代民主的终极形式，每个人在其中都可以发出自己的声音并让这个世界听到。
en:And I think what happens there will also happen in the wider system.Now there was a very interesting article by Clay Shirkythat got a lot of attention about a month ago,and this is basically the distribution of linkson the web to all these various different blogs.It follows a power law, so that there are a few extremely well-linked to, popular blogs,and a long tail of blogs with very few links.So 20 percent of the blogs get 80 percent of the links.Now this is a very interesting thing.It&#39;s caused a lot of controversybecause people thought that this was the ultimate kind of one man,one modem democracy, where anybody can get out there and get their voice heard.
时间：14:50
zh-cn:所以我们不仅会问，‘这样的现象为什么会发生？’这不是外界强加的秩序，而是当今博客界出现的一种涌现现象。现在，很棒现象就是人们持续的作着贡献。在克莱·舍基发表那篇文章几秒钟后，人们开始持续改变系统的潜在规则，因此一个不同的形状开始呈现。这样的形状出现的原因是基于先下手为强的原则。如果你是第一个站点，每个人都会链接到你。如果你是第二个，大多数人都会链接到你。你可以在很短时间内积累一大堆链接，并使得未来的新进者很有可能也链接到你的站点上。然后我们可以看到这样的形状出现。大卫·西弗里 （Technorati的创始人）在Technorati开始做的就是在克莱·舍基发表那篇文章之后把链接优先权给新来者。他开始着眼于一些没有太多链接的新来者随之这些新来者在24小时内获得大堆链接。
en:And so the question is, &quot;Why is this happening?&quot;It&#39;s not being imposed by fiat from above.It&#39;s an emergent property of the blogosphere right now.Now, what&#39;s great about it is that people are working on —within seconds of Clay publishing this piece, people started working on changingthe underlying rules of the system so that a different shape would start appearing.And basically, the shape appearslargely because of a kind of a first-mover advantage.if you&#39;re the first site there, everybody links to you.If you&#39;re the second site there, most people link to you.And so very quickly you can accumulate a bunch of links,and it makes it more likely for newcomers to link to you in the future,and then you get this kind of shape.And so what Dave Sifry at Technorati started working on,literally as Shirky started — after he published his piece —was something that basically just gave a new kind of priority to newcomers.And he started looking at interesting newcomers that don&#39;t have a lot of links,that suddenly get a bunch of links in the last 24 hours.
时间：15:42
zh-cn:所以在某种意义上，热门的博客来自于新人。因此他实际在开发一种可以改变整个体系的工具一种预设的涌现现象虽然你依旧不能完全控制，但是你在从有趣的方式改变着游戏规则因为你最终看到的也许是一个更民主的方式传播大众的声音。所以这件事最牛逼的地方在于，我的演说会结束在这里这样最具涌现性，最有内在组织性的系统却不存在特定的组成部分和具有窥探到博客链接形成的型态全貌的能力。并基于喜欢这个形状与否去相应的改变他们的行为所以关于这场讨论，最爽的事情如果幂法则和软件可以改变它就是事实上我们正在对话我希望对话从这里继续下去非常感谢
en:So in a sense, bursty weblogs coming from new voices.So he&#39;s working on a tool right there that can actually change the overall system.And it creates a kind of planned emergence.You&#39;re not totally in control,but you&#39;re changing the underlying rules in interesting waysbecause you have an end result which ismaybe a more democratic spread of voices.So the most amazing thing about this — and I&#39;ll end on this note —is, most emergent systems, most self-organizing systemsare not made up of component parts that are capable of looking at the overall patternand changing their behavior based on whether they like the pattern or not.So the most wonderful thing, I think, about this whole debateabout power laws and software that could change itis the fact that we&#39;re having the conversation.I hope it continues here.Thanks a lot.
