时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今晚，我想同大家讲两件事第一教人做外科手术和做外科手术真的很难。第二语言，在这个世界上语言将我们彼此远远地隔开。并且，在我的那一方小天地里，这两件事息息相关，今晚，我会告诉大家我的理由。
en:So I want to talk to you about two things tonight.Number one:Teaching surgery and doing surgeryis really hard.And second,that language is one of the most profound thingsthat separate us all over the world.And in my little corner of the world,these two things are actually related,and I want to tell you how tonight.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:现在，没人想做手术在座的有人接受过外科手术吗？你当时想接受外科手术吗？如果想，请继续举手。没人愿意。尤其是，没人想要这种运用工具大面积缝合的带来不少疼痛的耽误大量上班、上课的时间，最后会留下巨大疤痕的手术。但是，如果你不得不接受手术你期望一个微创手术这个，就是我今晚想聊的：自己进行、并且教会别人这种手术的想法使得我们开始寻找一个优秀的，通用翻译器
en:Now, nobody wants an operation.Who here has had surgery?Did you want it?Keep your hands up if you wanted an operation.Nobody wants an operation.In particular, nobody wants an operationwith tools like these through large incisionsthat cause a lot of pain,that cause a lot of time out of work or out of school,that leave a big scar.But if you have to have an operation,what you really want is a minimally invasive operation.That&#39;s what I want to talk to you about tonight —how doing and teaching this type of surgeryled us on a searchfor a better universal translator.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:好的，刚刚讲到，微创手术很难它从让人麻醉睡觉开始然后把二氧化碳注入人的腹部向吹气球一样吹起来把尖头的工具刺进腹部很危险需要一边拿工具，一边对着显像屏幕观察实际情况差不多是这样这是一个胆囊手术我们一年得做上百万例仅仅在美国就这么多。这是真事，一点血液都看不到你看，手术师多么全神贯注精力完全集中。看他们的面部表情就知道这手术很难教，也很难学我们在美国做了五百万例全世界大概两千万例
en:Now, this type of surgery is hard,and it starts by putting people to sleep,putting carbon dioxide in their abdomen,blowing them up like a balloon,sticking one of these sharp pointy things into their abdomen —it&#39;s dangerous stuff —and taking instruments and watching it on a TV screen.So let&#39;s see what it looks like.So this is gallbladder surgery.We perform a million of these a yearin the United States alone.This is the real thing. There&#39;s no blood.And you can see how focused the surgeons are,how much concentration it takes.You can see it in their faces.It&#39;s hard to teach, and it&#39;s not all that easy to learn.We do about five million of these in the United Statesand maybe 20 million of these worldwide.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:嗯，估计大家都听过这句话“他天生就是个手术师。”要我说，手术师没有天生的也不是制造出来的我们找不到一个培养容器能够生产他们手术师是一步一步训练出来的首先从最基本的技能开始然后在此基础上，有希望的话，把他们带进手术室在那儿，他们学会怎么做助理。之后，训练他们怎么做手术师学大概五年拿到证书如果你必须接受手术，有证书的手术师是你的优先考虑对象。好了，拿到了证书就可以实战演练了最终，足够幸运的话，会变成大师级别
en:All right, you&#39;ve all heard the term:&quot;He&#39;s a born surgeon.&quot;Let me tell you, surgeons are not born.Surgeons are not made either.There are no little tanks where we&#39;re making surgeons.Surgeons are trained one step at a time.It starts with a foundation, basic skills.We build on that and we take people, hopefully, to the operating roomwhere they learn to be an assistant.Then we teach them to be a surgeon in training.And when they do all of that for about five years,they get the coveted board certification.If you need surgery, you want to be operated onby a board-certified surgeon.You get your board certificate,and you can go out into practice.And eventually, if you&#39;re lucky, you achieve mastery.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:这其中，基础至关重要我们当中的一些人来自美国最大的手术协会，SAGES（内镜外科医师学会），在90年代后期，创立了一个培训项目确保每一个进行微创手术的外科医生都有过硬的知识和技能让他们顺利的完成手术这后面蕴含的科学性显而易见美国手术委员会的硬性要求每一个新进手术师都参与培训才能拿到认证。这不仅仅是一个讲座，亦不仅是课程而是除上述两者之外，还要加上高风险的评估。非常困难仅仅去年一年我们的合作伙伴之一：美国手术师学院同我们联合宣布所有的手术师都必须通过FLS (腹腔镜手术基本知识)考试之后才能进行微创手术
en:Now that foundation is so importantthat a number of usfrom the largest general surgery society in the United States, SAGES,started in the late 1990s a training programthat would assure that every surgeon who practices minimally invasive surgerywould have a strong foundation of knowledge and skillsnecessary to go on and do procedures.Now the science behind this is so potentthat it became required by the American Board of Surgeryin order for a young surgeon to become board certified.It&#39;s not a lecture, it&#39;s not a course,it&#39;s all of that plus a high-stakes assessment.It&#39;s hard.Now just this past year,one of our partners, the American College of Surgeons,teamed up with us to make an announcementthat all surgeons should be FLS (Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery)-certifiedbefore they do minimally invasive surgery.
时间： 4:05
zh-cn:仅仅是美国和加拿大的手术师吗？不，全世界的所以，要推广这个全球性的教育和训练会是一项非常庞大的任务我个人很兴奋，因为我们全世界地旅行SAGES在世界范围内进行手术，并提供培训所以现在就有个问题，距离我们不能每个角落都顾及到我们得把这个世界变小一点或许开发一些工具能够解决这个问题其中一个我个人非常喜欢的工具就是视频沟通。
en:And are we talking about just people here in the U.S. and Canada?No, we just said all surgeons.So to lift this education and training worldwideis a very large task,something I&#39;m very personally excited about as we travel around the world.SAGES does surgery all over the world, teaching and educating surgeons.So we have a problem, and one of the problems is distance.We can&#39;t travel everywhere.We need to make the world a smaller place.And I think that we can develop some tools to do so.And one of the tools I like personally is using video.
时间： 4:41
zh-cn:这是我某位朋友启发我的他叫艾伦 奥科莱耐，来自多伦多他证明了可以用视频会议教会人如果做手术这里是艾伦正在教一个居住在非洲、会讲英语的手术师这些基本技能是进行微创手术的必备知识非常具有启发性但是，对于这个困难的测试我们还有一个问题即便人们会讲英语仅有14%的人通过测试因为对于他们而言，这不是个手术考试而是个英语考试
en:So I was inspired by a friend.This is Allan Okrainec from Toronto.And he provedthat you could actually teach people to do surgeryusing video conferencing.So here&#39;s Allan teaching an English-speaking surgeon in Africathese basic fundamental skillsnecessary to do minimally invasive surgery.Very inspiring.But for this examination, which is really hard,we have a problem.Even people who say they speak English,only 14 percent pass.Because for them it&#39;s not a surgery test,it&#39;s an English test.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:我讲的更具体一点我在剑桥医院工作那里是哈佛医学院的主要教学设施。我们有超过一百位的翻译人员，懂得超过63种语言在这个小医院里头，翻译花掉了上百万美元是个劳动密集型的工作。再设想一下全世界面临的负担要同你的病人交流不是教会手术师，而仅仅是和你的病人交流我们就会面临世界范围内翻译人员的短缺。我们得采用技术来帮助我们在医院，我们看到哈佛的教授也看到上个星期刚刚来的人你无法想象要照顾一个你不能交流的人有多困难而且你还不总能找到翻译
en:Let me bring it to you locally.I work at the Cambridge Hospital.It&#39;s the primary Harvard Medical School teaching facility.We have more than 100 translators covering 63 languages,and we spend millions of dollars just in our little hospital.It&#39;s a big labor-intensive effort.If you think about the worldwide burdenof trying to talk to your patients —not just teaching surgeons, just trying to talk to your patients —there aren&#39;t enough translators in the world.We need to employ technology to assist us in this quest.At our hospital we see everybody from Harvard professorsto people who just got here last week.And you have no idea how hard it isto talk to somebody or take care of somebody you can&#39;t talk to.And there isn&#39;t always a translator available.
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:因此，我们需要工具我们需要一个通用翻译器这个讲座结束后，我希望大家并不仅把本次讲座看作一个传道和说教而将它看成建立一个对话等待我们学习的东西还有很多同世界其他地方相比，平均下来我们每个美国人付出的金钱甚多，但收效甚微或许我们也要学习一些事情
en:So we need tools.We need a universal translator.One of the things that I want to leave you with as you think about this talkis that this talk is not just about us preaching to the world.It&#39;s really about setting up a dialogue.We have a lot to learn.Here in the United States we spend more money per personfor outcomes that are not better than many countries in the world.Maybe we have something to learn as well.
时间： 6:48
zh-cn:所以，我满怀热情地在全世界教授FLS技能去年，我到了拉丁美洲，还有中国讲授腹腔镜手术的基础知识然而，我在所有地方每每遇到相同的困难“我们需要这些，但我们希望用自己的语言”因此，我们想要这样做：设想我正在进行一场讲座并同时能用听众自己的语言同他们交流我希望同来自亚洲的，拉美的，非洲的，欧洲的人准确的，毫无隔阂的交流运用一种性价比极高的技术，同他们交流并且双向的沟通他们同样可以教会我们一些事情
en:So I&#39;m passionate about teaching these FLS skills all over the world.This past year I&#39;ve been in Latin America, I&#39;ve been in China,talking about the fundamentals of laparoscopic surgery.And everywhere I go the barrier is:&quot;We want this, but we need it in our language.&quot;So here&#39;s what we think we want to do:Imagine giving a lectureand being able to talk to people in their own native language simultaneously.I want to talk to the people in Asia, Latin America, Africa, Europeseamlessly, accuratelyand in a cost-effective fashion using technology.And it has to be bi-directional.They have to be able to teach us something as well.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:这个任务艰巨所以，我们尝试寻找一个通用翻译器；我以为它会出现。你的网页可以翻译，你的手机可以翻译但没有什么足够充当手术教学的翻译因为我们需要一部辞典。什么是辞典？它是一个描述某领域的词汇系统我需要一个医保辞典这其中，我需要一部手术辞典这是一个艰巨的任务。我们必须努力去做。
en:It&#39;s a big task.So we looked for a universal translator; I thought there would be one out there.Your webpage has translation, your cellphone has translation,but nothing that&#39;s good enough to teach surgery.Because we need a lexicon. What is a lexicon?A lexicon is a body of words that describes a domain.I need to have a health care lexicon.And in that I need a surgery lexicon.That&#39;s a tall order. We have to work at it.
时间： 8:08
zh-cn:所以让我告诉你我们所做的努力。这是研究——买不到我们这在同IBM帮助和支持中心的人员合作研发一种通用翻译器它建立在一个框架系统上医生用此框架发布一个讲座时，运用了字幕技术同时，采用其他技术进行视频会议但是，我们现在还没有具体的文字，所以，第三种技术应运而生有了具体文字之后我们把关键的一环加上：翻译我们将文字放入一个窗口，接着施上魔法我们还有第四种技术目前，共十一组语言配对可供使用当然，当我们尝试将世界变小一点的时候，更多东西出现了我想跟大家分享一下我们的基本模型这个模型将看似乎不相连的几个技术整合起来发挥着重要的作用
en:So let me show you what we&#39;re doing.This is research — can&#39;t buy it.We&#39;re working with the folks at IBM Research from the Accessibility Centerto string together technologies to work towards the universal translator.It starts with a framework systemwhere when the surgeon delivers the lectureusing a framework of captioning technology,we then add another technology to do video conferencing.But we don&#39;t have the words yet, so we add a third technology.And now we&#39;ve got the words,and we can apply the special sauce: the translation.We get the words up in a window and then apply the magic.We work with a fourth technology.And we currently have access to eleven language pairs.More to come as we think about trying to make the world a smaller place.And I&#39;d like to show you our prototypeof stringing all of these technologies that don&#39;t necessarily always talk to each otherto become something useful.
时间： 9:10
zh-cn:旁白：腹腔镜手术的基本知识模块五：动手技巧练习学生可以显示其母语的字幕
en:Narrator: Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery.Module five: manual skills practice.Students may display captions in their native language.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:史蒂芬 史威茨博格：如果你在拉丁美洲请点击按钮“我需要西班牙文”西班牙文解说会即时出现如果你人在北京运用相似的方法你可以找到中文，甚至俄语等等这一切都来自技术，不需要真人翻译这就是教学讲座
en:Steven Schwaitzberg: If you&#39;re in Latin America,you click the &quot;I want it in Spanish&quot; buttonand out it comes in real time in Spanish.But if you happen to be sitting in Beijing at the same time,by using technology in a constructive fashion,you could get it in Mandarin or you could get it in Russian —on and on and on, simultaneously without the use of human translators.But that&#39;s the lectures.
时间： 9:50
zh-cn:如果你还记得我一开始讲到的FLS我的描述是：知识和技巧在一个手术中做错或做对常常仅在手的分毫移动中决定所以，我们要更进一步现在，我们把老朋友艾伦找回来
en:If you remember what I told you about FLS at the beginning,it&#39;s knowledge and skills.The difference in an operationbetween doing something successfully and notmay be moving your hand this much.So we&#39;re going to take it one step further;we&#39;ve brought my friend Allan back.
时间：10:10
zh-cn:艾伦：今天，我们来练习缝合针应该这样拿拿起尖头处。一定要准确对准黑点你的缝线圈圈应该是这样的现在把线切断奥斯卡，非常好。下周见
en:Allan Okrainec: Today we&#39;re going to practice suturing.This is how you hold the needle.Grab the needle at the tip.It&#39;s important to be accurate.Aim for the black dots.Orient your loop this way.Now go ahead and cut.Very good Oscar. I&#39;ll see you next week.
时间：10:41
zh-cn:ss: 这就是我们现在在做的找寻一个通用翻译器我们希望它是双向的我们需要教，亦需要学我能够想出千万种使用这个工具的方法当我们谈论起交叉互通技术时每个人都有一个带摄像头的手机随时随地可用比如健保、病人护理、工程、法律、会议、视频翻译等等这是个各处皆宜的工具
en:SS: So that&#39;s what we&#39;re working onin our quest for the universal translator.We want it to be bi-directional.We have a need to learn as well as to teach.I can think of a million uses for a tool like this.As we think about intersecting technologies —everybody has a cell phone with a camera —we could use this everywhere,whether it be health care, patient care,engineering, law, conferencing, translating videos.This is a ubiquitous tool.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:若想打破限制我们必须学会沟通同别人一起提高翻译技术我们日常生活都需要这个工具而世界才得以变得更小谢谢大家！
en:In order to break down our barriers,we have to learn to talk to people,to demand that people work on translation.We need it for our everyday life,in order to make the world a smaller place.Thank you very much.
时间：11:28
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
