时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这幅照片摄于奥斯维辛集中营类似这样的场景构成我们对20世纪的感知的一部分并且让我们对自身有了新的认识让我们重新审视自己所处的环境和时代在20世纪里,我们见证了斯大林、希特勒、毛泽东、波尔布特的种种暴行，卢旺达种族大屠杀等等尽管21世纪才过了7年我们也目睹了达富尔正在进行中的种族大屠杀以及伊拉克频繁的战乱这些事件导致我们对现状的如下认识暴力是现代社会的衍生品也许，远古人们还能和睦相处，而今人已经做不到这点了
en:Images like this, from the Auschwitz concentration camp,have been seared into our consciousness during the twentieth centuryand have given us a new understanding of who we are,where we&#39;ve come from and the times we live in.During the twentieth century, we witnessed the atrocitiesof Stalin, Hitler, Mao, Pol Pot, Rwanda and other genocides,and even though the twenty-first century is only seven years old,we have already witnessed an ongoing genocide in Darfurand the daily horrors of Iraq.This has led to a common understanding of our situation,namely that modernity has brought us terrible violence, and perhapsthat native peoples lived in a state of harmony that we have departed from, to our peril.
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:我可以举一个例子几年前，波士顿环球报中有一篇专栏文章作者关于感恩节写道“虽然印第安人生活艰苦，但是他们不会面临失业问题他们邻里和睦，没有人滥用毒品基本上没有犯罪，即使在两个部落之间爆发战争也通常是形式上的，鲜有导致部族歧视和大规模屠杀”大家对于这种论调已经耳熟能详了我们从电视及书本中了解到这些，并且这样教育孩子这个讲座最初定的题目是“你所知道的错误信息”，我现在就要给出证据推翻大家原先对于暴力的一些认识实际上，我们的祖先要比我们暴力得多随着时间的推移，暴力出现的频率一直在走低我想现在很有可能正处于人类历史上最和平的时期
en:Here is an examplefrom an op-ed on Thanksgiving, in the Boston Globea couple of years ago, where the writer wrote, &quot;The Indian lifewas a difficult one, but there were no employment problems,community harmony was strong, substance abuse unknown,crime nearly non-existent, what warfare there was between tribeswas largely ritualistic and seldom resulted in indiscriminateor wholesale slaughter.&quot; Now, you&#39;re all familiar with this treacle.We teach it to our children. We hear it on televisionand in storybooks. Now, the original title of this sessionwas, &quot;Everything You Know Is Wrong,&quot; and I&#39;m going to present evidencethat this particular part of our common understanding is wrong,that, in fact, our ancestors were far more violent than we are,that violence has been in decline for long stretches of time,and that today we are probably living in the most peaceful time in our species&#39; existence.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:在这个达富尔和伊拉克烽烟四起的年代说是史上最和平的年代，听上去像天方夜谭但是我现在就要向你证明事实就是如此。暴力行为的减少趋势呈现不规律性。可以以千年、百年、十年或年为单位观察尽管在16世纪的理性时代初期似乎存在过一个最高点。这是普遍现象，而不局限在一地在西方尤其明显，从英国和荷兰在启蒙时期开始
en:Now, in the decade of Darfur and Iraq,a statement like that might seem somewhere between hallucinatoryand obscene. But I&#39;m going to try to convince youthat that is the correct picture. The decline of violenceis a fractal phenomenon. You can see it over millennia,over centuries, over decades and over years,although there seems to have been a tipping point at the onsetof the Age of Reason in the sixteenth century. One sees itall over the world, although not homogeneously.It&#39;s especially evident in the West, beginning with Englandand Holland around the time of the Enlightenment.
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:让我带你看看以10为衡量方式的一些权利—从以千年为单位到以年为单位来试着告诉你们这点。直到一万年前人类以打猎为生，没有固定聚居地、政府这个状态通常被认为是原始的和谐状态。但考古学家Lawrence Keeley通过观察当代狩猎者的死亡率——这类生活方式最好的证据来源——得出了不同的结论
en:Let me take you on a journey of several powers of 10 —from the millennium scale to the year scale —to try to persuade you of this. Until 10,000 years ago, all humanslived as hunter-gatherers, without permanent settlementsor government. And this is the state that&#39;s commonly thoughtto be one of primordial harmony. But the archaeologistLawrence Keeley, looking at casualty ratesamong contemporary hunter-gatherers, which is our best sourceof evidence about this way of life, has shown a rather different conclusion.
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:这是他统计出的图表显示出在一些游牧民族中男性因战争而死所占的比列红色条表示男性死于其他人之手的可能性对应自然死亡数据源于新几内亚高地和亚马逊雨林的一些游牧民族游牧民族成员死于他人之手的比例在Gebusi民族的接近60%和15%之间变换。左下角的蓝色条描绘了在20世纪的美国和欧洲相应的数据，包括了两次世界大战的死者。如果部落战争中的死亡率是普遍现象那么在20世纪，死于战争的人数应该是20亿而不是1亿
en:Here is a graph that he put togethershowing the percentage of male deaths due to warfarein a number of foraging, or hunting and gathering societies.The red bars correspond to the likelihood that a man will dieat the hands of another man, as opposed to passing awayof natural causes, in a variety of foraging societiesin the New Guinea Highlands and the Amazon Rainforest.And they range from a rate of almost a 60 percent chance that a man will dieat the hands of another man to, in the case of the Gebusi,only a 15 percent chance. The tiny, little blue bar in the lowerleft-hand corner plots the corresponding statistic from United Statesand Europe in the twentieth century, and includes all the deathsof both World Wars. If the death rate in tribal warfare had prevailedduring the 20th century, there would have been two billion deaths rather than 100 million.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:同样以千年为范围我们来看看被记录在圣经中的早期文明生活方式在圣经这本我们理论上的道德准则中我们可以看到对于战争行为的描述比如民数记31中所记载的：“他们就照耶和华所吩咐摩西的，与米甸人打仗，杀了所有的男丁。摩西对他们说：你们要存留这一切妇女的活命么？所以，你们要把一切的男孩和所有已嫁的女子都杀了。但女孩子中，凡没有出嫁的，你们都可以存留他的活命。”换句话说杀掉男人和小孩，但如果看到少女就可以留下活口来占有她们。在圣经中能找到四、五段这样的记录同样，在圣经中死刑是种可接受的惩罚方式对于例如同性恋、通奸、语秽、盲目崇拜、说父母坏话—(笑声)—在安息日劳动等罪行现在，让我们放大一格来观察下以世纪为单位的数据尽管我们没有从中世纪到现代的所有战争数据我们仅仅依据现有历史—人类社会所支持的暴力行为一直在减少这样的证据一直近在眼前
en:Also at the millennium scale, we can lookat the way of life of early civilizations such as the ones describedin the Bible. And in this supposed source of our moral values,one can read descriptions of what was expected in warfare,such as the following from Numbers 31: &quot;And they warredagainst the Midianites as the Lord commanded Moses,and they slew all the males. And Moses said unto them,&#39;Have you saved all the women alive? Now, therefore, kill every maleamong the little ones and kill every woman that hath known manby lying with him, but all the women children that have not know a manby lying with him keep alive for yourselves.&#39;&quot; In other words,kill the men; kill the children; if you see any virgins,then you can keep them alive so that you can rape them.You can find four or five passages in the Bible of this ilk.Also in the Bible, one sees that the death penaltywas the accepted punishment for crimes such as homosexuality,adultery, blasphemy, idolatry, talking back to your parents —(Laughter) — and picking up sticks on the Sabbath.Well, let&#39;s click the zoom lensdown one order of magnitude, and look at the century scale.Although we don&#39;t have statistics for warfare throughoutthe Middle Ages to modern times,we know just from conventional history — the evidencewas under our nose all along that there has been a reductionin socially sanctioned forms of violence.
时间： 5:36
zh-cn:例如，任何文明史都曾记录截肢或酷刑是常见的罪行惩罚方式。现在只能让你被罚款的违规，在过去可能导致割舌，割耳，挖眼斩手等结果世界各地有无数种斩首的变态方式捆在木装上烧，开膛破肚，车裂五马分尸等等而能处以死刑的非暴力罪行有长长的列表：比如批评国王，偷面包。当然，奴隶制是种理想的节约劳力的制度，而残忍行为则被当作流行的娱乐方式。也许最生动的例子是火烧猫的行为。猫在平台上被吊起来通过吊索被慢慢放入火里猫在火中痛苦地嚎叫直到被烧死围观的人发出愉快的尖叫
en:For example, any social history will reveal that mutilation and torturewere routine forms of criminal punishment. The kind of infractiontoday that would give you a fine, in those days would result inyour tongue being cut out, your ears being cut off, you being blinded,a hand being chopped off and so on.There were numerous ingenious forms of sadistic capital punishment:burning at the stake, disemboweling, breaking on the wheel,being pulled apart by horses and so on.The death penalty was a sanction for a long list of non-violent crimes:criticizing the king, stealing a loaf of bread. Slavery, of course,was the preferred labor-saving device, and cruelty wasa popular form of entertainment. Perhaps the most vivid examplewas the practice of cat burning, in which a cat was hoistedon a stage and lowered in a sling into a fire,and the spectators shrieked in laughter as the cat, howling in pain,was burned to death.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:那么一对一的凶杀呢？这个有据可查因为许多市政当局记录了死因犯罪学家Manuel Eisner整理了欧洲的所有历史记录涉及他能找到的乡、村、镇、县的凶杀率然后综合了有数据记录以来的所有国家数据他用对数表示，从每年每十万人中100例死亡，略等于中世纪的凶杀案发率数据降低到了每年每十万人中少于1例死亡率在7、8个欧洲国家。然后1960年代稍有上涨那些说摇滚导致了道德丧失的部分人确实有一定道理但谋杀率数据减少至少有两个数量级从中世纪到现在数据拐角出现在16世纪初期
en:What about one-on-one murder? Well, there, there are good statistics,because many municipalities recorded the cause of death.The criminologist Manuel Eisnerscoured all of the historical records across Europefor homicide rates in any village, hamlet, town, countythat he could find, and he supplemented themwith national data, when nations started keeping statistics.He plotted on a logarithmic scale, going from 100 deathsper 100,000 people per year, which was approximately the rateof homicide in the Middle Ages. And the figure plummets downto less than one homicide per 100,000 people per yearin seven or eight European countries. Then, there is a slight uptickin the 1960s. The people who said that rock &#39;n&#39; roll would leadto the decline of moral values actually had a grain of truth to that.But there was a decline from at least two orders of magnitudein homicide from the Middle Ages to the present,and the elbow occurred in the early sixteenth century.
时间： 7:48
zh-cn:接下来以十年为单位观察根据一些非政府组织的相关数据从1945年起，在欧洲和美洲国家间战争、严重种族暴乱和军事政变数量急剧减少即使在南美也是如此。在世界范围内国家间战争的死亡率也急速下降。这里的黄色条显示从1950年到现在每年每场战争的死亡数正如你所见，死亡人数从1950年的65000例每场战争每年，到近十年的2000例每场战争每年，尽管这些战争显得很残酷。就算是以年为单位也能看出暴力的减少自从冷战终结，内战便很少发生种族灭绝几乎绝迹。其实，数据从二战之后的最高点降低了90%即使在60年代凶杀率和暴力行为有小的上升这是联邦调查局犯罪统计数据。从中可知在50至60年代暴力行为发生率相对较低经历几十年的上升在90年代开始骤降直至回到60年代的水平克林顿总统，如果你在的话，非常感谢(笑声)
en:Let&#39;s click down now to the decade scale.According to non-governmental organizationsthat keep such statistics, since 1945, in Europe and the Americas,there has been a steep decline in interstate wars,in deadly ethnic riots or pogroms, and in military coups,even in South America. Worldwide, there&#39;s been a steep declinein deaths in interstate wars. The yellow bars here show the numberof deaths per war per year from 1950 to the present.And, as you can see, the death rate goes down from 65,000 deathsper conflict per year in the 1950s to less than 2,000 deathsper conflict per year in this decade, as horrific as it is.Even in the year scale, one can see a decline of violence.Since the end of the Cold War, there have been fewer civil wars,fewer genocides — indeed, a 90 percent reduction since post-World War II highs —and even a reversal of the 1960s uptick in homicide and violent crime.This is from the FBI Uniform Crime Statistics. You can seethat there is a fairly low rate of violence in the &#39;50s and the &#39;60s,then it soared upward for several decades, and begana precipitous decline, starting in the 1990s, so that it went backto the level that was last enjoyed in 1960.President Clinton, if you&#39;re here, thank you.(Laughter)
时间： 9:15
zh-cn:所以问题是：为什么对于如此重要的问题有这么多人都持错误观点呢？我想原因很多其一是有了更多的媒体报道。“在这个世界上，美联社是比16世纪的僧人更好的战争编年体作者。”有这样一个认知幻觉：我们认知学家知道越容易回忆一些具体的事情，你就越容易去做。我们每天读报纸中的血淋淋的描写它们对我们记忆的影响远远大于更多人在床上老死的报道。观点和市场宣传上有这么一说：没有人能靠仅仅是说“事情会变得越来越好的。&quot;来吸引围观者，宣讲者和捐赠者们(笑声)
en:So the question is, why are so many people so wrongabout something so important? I think there are a number of reasons.One of them is we have better reporting. The Associated Pressis a better chronicler of wars over the surface of the Earththan sixteenth-century monks were.There&#39;s a cognitive illusion. We cognitive psychologists know that the easier it isto recall specific instances of something,the higher the probability that you assign to it.Things that we read about in the paper with gory footageburn into memory more than reports of a lot more people dyingin their beds of old age. There are dynamics in the opinionand advocacy markets: no one ever attracted observers, advocatesand donors by sayingthings just seem to be getting better and better.(Laughter)
时间：10:08
zh-cn:在现代文明社会，我们对待本土人的方式以及不情愿承认西方文化一些好的方面让我们觉得内疚当然，我们标准的变化超过了我们行为的变化。暴力下降的众多原因之一人们对他们那时的屠杀和残忍性已经厌倦了。那个过程可能看起来还在继续，但是如果按照现在的标准它超过了行为，事情比他们从历史标准上看来要变得更加野蛮。所以，现在，我们受到训练—很应该地—如果有一小撮杀人犯经过15年的上诉程序在得克萨斯受到注射死刑的惩罚。我们不认为在几百年前，他们会因为批评国王在经过10分钟的审判后被处以火刑—的确，那种情形可能会重复发生。今天，我们把极刑看成我们行为沦落程度的证据而不是我们的标准上升到多高的程度。
en:There&#39;s guilt about our treatment of native peoplesin modern intellectual life, and an unwillingness to acknowledgethere could be anything good about Western culture.And of course, our change in standards can outpace the changein behavior. One of the reasons violence went downis that people got sick of the carnage and cruelty in their time.That&#39;s a process that seems to be continuing,but if it outstrips behavior by the standards of the day,things always look more barbaric than they would have beenby historic standards. So today, we get exercised — and rightly so —if a handful of murderers get executed by lethal injectionin Texas after a 15-year appeal process. We don&#39;t considerthat a couple of hundred years ago, they may have been burnedat the stake for criticizing the king after a trialthat lasted 10 minutes, and indeed, that that would have been repeatedover and over again. Today, we look at capital punishmentas evidence of how low our behavior can sink,rather than how high our standards have risen.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:那么，为什么暴力下降了呢？没有人能真正回答这个问题，但是，我读到过四种解释，我认为，还是比较可信的。第一种解释是：或许托马斯霍布斯是正确的。他说过自然状态下的生命是“孤独，贫穷，肮脏，野蛮和短暂的。”不是因为，他申辩到，人们对血腥行为，进攻本能或领土保护的原始本能，而是因为无政府状态的逻辑型。在无政府状态下，在你的邻居侵犯你之前抢先侵占他们是个永恒的诱惑。最近，托马斯霍布斯将一个故事作为比喻。一位房东听到地下室沙沙的声音，作为一位好美国公民，他的床头柜里有一把手枪于是他装上子弹，走下楼梯。他看到一个盗贼正拿着一把抢。他们两个人都在想，“我不想杀掉那个人，但是他可能会杀我。或许，我在他杀我之前，我有机会杀掉他，虽然，他可能没有打算杀我，他可能现在认为我在他杀掉我之前我会先杀他。”等等，等等。狩猎为生的人们经过这样清晰明确的思考，通常会因为担心自己被杀害而先杀害他们的邻居。
en:Well, why has violence declined? No one really knows,but I have read four explanations, all of which, I think,have some grain of plausibility. The first is, maybeThomas Hobbes got it right. He was the one who saidthat life in a state of nature was &quot;solitary, poor, nasty, brutishand short.&quot; Not because, he argued,humans have some primordial thirst for bloodor aggressive instinct or territorial imperative,but because of the logic of anarchy. In a state of anarchy,there&#39;s a constant temptation to invade your neighbors preemptively,before they invade you. More recently, Thomas Schellinggives the analogy of a homeowner who hears a rustlingin the basement. Being a good American, he has a pistolin the nightstand, pulls out his gun, and walks down the stairs.And what does he see but a burglar with a gun in his hand.Now, each one of them is thinking,&quot;I don&#39;t really want to kill that guy, but he&#39;s about to kill me.Maybe I had better shoot him, before he shoots me,especially since, even if he doesn&#39;t want to kill me,he&#39;s probably worrying right now that I might kill himbefore he kills me.&quot; And so on.Hunter-gatherer peoples explicitly go through this train of thought,and will often raid their neighbors out of fear of being raided first.
时间：12:33
zh-cn:现在，解决这个问题的一种方法是通过威慑：你不先进攻，但是你先公开宣称如果你受到侵犯，你将会进行野蛮报复。这样公开宣称的唯一事情是可被称为虚张声势，所以只能在其可信的情况下变为可能。为了使其能够变为可能，你必须报复所有的侵犯摆平所有的恩怨，但这会导致血腥复仇的循环圈。人生变成了电视剧“黑道家族。”霍布斯的解决方法，“利维坦”，讲的是如果对暴力的合法使用权是属于一个单一的民主机构—一种“利维坦”—然后这样一个国家能降低受到攻击的诱惑性，因为任何一种进攻都将会受到惩罚，进攻的好处变为零。那将会消除因为担心他人会先攻击你所以你抢险攻击他人的诱惑性。而且它能够消除为了使你自己的威慑变为可信的一触即发的报复。因此，它会导致一个国家的和平。艾斯纳—在前面的幻灯片你没看见的划分杀人率的那个人—争辩道在欧洲杀人率下降的那个时期恰逢中央集权的崛起。那是对利维坦理论的一点小小的证明。而且支持它的还有我们今天看到的在无政府地段爆发的暴力行为：在失势的国家，崩溃的帝国，边境地区，黑手党，街头帮派等等。
en:Now, one way of dealing with this problem is by deterrence.You don&#39;t strike first, but you have a publicly announced policythat you will retaliate savagely if you are invaded.The only thing is that it&#39;sliable to having its bluff called, and therefore can only workif it&#39;s credible. To make it credible, you must avenge all insultsand settle all scores, which leads to the cycles of bloody vendetta.Life becomes an episode of &quot;The Sopranos.&quot; Hobbes&#39; solution,the &quot;Leviathan,&quot; was that if authority for the legitimate useof violence was vested in a single democratic agency — a leviathan —then such a state can reduce the temptation of attack,because any kind of aggression will be punished,leaving its profitability as zero. That would remove the temptationto invade preemptively, out of fear of them attacking you first.It removes the need for a hair trigger for retaliationto make your deterrent threat credible. And therefore, it would leadto a state of peace. Eisner — the man who plotted the homicide ratesthat you failed to see in the earlier slide —argued that the timing of the decline of homicide in Europecoincided with the rise of centralized states.So that&#39;s a bit of a support for the leviathan theory.Also supporting it is the fact that we today see eruptions of violencein zones of anarchy, in failed states, collapsed empires,frontier regions, mafias, street gangs and so on.
时间：14:11
zh-cn:第二种解释是在很多次很多地方有种认为生命卑贱的普遍看法。早期，当受苦和早逝对于一个人很平常的时候，人们对造成他人受苦或死亡的内疚感不会强烈。当科技和经济有效地使生命延长并且更愉快时，人们对生命的价值总体上有了更高的评价。政治科学家詹姆斯佩恩对此有所论述。
en:The second explanation is that in many times and places,there is a widespread sentiment that life is cheap.In earlier times, when suffering and early death were commonin one&#39;s own life, one has fewer compunctions about inflicting themon others. And as technology and economic efficiency make lifelonger and more pleasant, one puts a higher value on life in general.This was an argument from the political scientist James Payne.
时间：14:38
zh-cn:第三种解释用了“非零和游戏”的概念，在记者罗伯特怀特的书“非零”中有所讲述。怀特指出在特别情况下合作，包括非暴力的，能够对相互的双方都有利，比如交易的所得，当双方交换他们的盈余，或者当双方放下武器，分离所谓的和平界限从而不会再发生战争。怀特争辩说科技提升了“正和游戏&quot;的砝码，人类往往会陷入允许货物，贸易和思想经过更长的旅途在更多的人群中交换。结果是其他人活着比死亡更加有用，因为私自的原因，暴力下降了。如同怀特说的，”在我认为我们不应该轰炸日本的众多原因之一是他们建造了我的多功能休旅車。“（笑声）
en:A third explanation invokes the concept of a nonzero-sum game,and was worked out in the book &quot;Nonzero&quot; by the journalistRobert Wright. Wright points out that in certain circumstances,cooperation or non-violence can benefit both partiesin an interaction, such as gains in trade when two parties tradetheir surpluses and both come out ahead, or when two partieslay down their arms and split the so-called peace dividendthat results in them not having to fight the whole time.Wright argues that technology has increased the numberof positive-sum games that humans tend to be embroiled in,by allowing the trade of goods, services and ideasover longer distances and among larger groups of people.The result is that other people become more valuable alive than dead,and violence declines for selfish reasons. As Wright put it,&quot;Among the many reasons that I think that we should not bombthe Japanese is that they built my mini-van.&quot;(Laughter)
时间：15:40
zh-cn:第四种解释含在书题中”扩张的圈子“，由哲学家彼得辛格所写，他争辩道进化遗留给人类同情的感情：一种将他人的利益作为自己的利益的一种能力。不幸的是，在默认状态下，我们只将这种能力局限于朋友和家人的狭窄圈子中。在圈外的人们被认为是次等人，可以利用。但是经过历史，圈子已经扩张了。可以看到的是，历史记录，它从乡村扩张到氏族，扩张到部落，扩张到国家，扩张到其他种族，扩张到两性并且，在辛格自己的论文中，一些我们应该扩张到其他有感情的物种的东西。问题是，如果真是实现了，是什么驱使这种扩张？
en:The fourth explanation is captured in the title of a bookcalled &quot;The Expanding Circle,&quot; by the philosopher Peter Singer,who argues that evolution bequeathed humans with a senseof empathy, an ability to treat other peoples&#39; interestsas comparable to one&#39;s own. Unfortunately, by defaultwe apply it only to a very narrow circle of friends and family.People outside that circle are treated as sub-human,and can be exploited with impunity. But, over history,the circle has expanded. One can see, in historical record,it expanding from the village, to the clan, to the tribe,to the nation, to other races, to both sexes,and, in Singer&#39;s own arguments, something that we should extendto other sentient species. The question is,if this has happened, what has powered that expansion?
时间：16:32
zh-cn:有很多种可能。在这个意义上增加罗伯特怀特所认为的互惠圈。黄金法则的逻辑是：你越为他人着想，越同他人交流，你越多地意识到将你的利益凌驾于他人之上是站不住脚的，至少在你希望他们会听你的时候。你不能说我的利益比你的利益更重要，你说你正站在的那个地方是宇宙中独特的一个地方因为恰巧是你在那个时刻站在那个地方。它也有可能是因世界主义而扩张：根据历史新闻，回忆录和现实小说和旅行以及文学，这些让你将自己融入那些你认为是次等人的生活，同时意识到你自己生命中的偶然性；“听天由命”的感觉。
en:And there are a number of possibilities, such as increasing circlesof reciprocity in the sense that Robert Wright argues for.The logic of the golden rule — the more you think about and interactwith other people, the more you realize that it is untenableto privilege your interests over theirs,at least not if you want them to listen to you. You can&#39;t saythat my interests are special compared to yours,anymore than you can say that the particular spotthat I&#39;m standing on is a unique part of the universebecause I happen to be standing on it that very minute.It may also be powered by cosmopolitanism, by histories,and journalism, and memoirs, and realistic fiction, and travel,and literacy, which allows you to project yourself into the livesof other people that formerly you may have treated as sub-human,and also to realize the accidental contingency of your own stationin life, the sense that &quot;there but for fortune go I.&quot;
时间：17:32
zh-cn:无论是什么原因，暴力的下降具有深刻的影响。它应该迫使我们不仅要问：“为什么会有战争？“而且要问”为什么会有和平？“不仅仅是”我们做错了什么？“还有”我们做对了什么？“因为我们做对了某些事，找出我们做的对的事情一定没错。非常谢谢大家。（掌声）。
en:Whatever its causes, the decline of violence, I think,has profound implications. It should force us to ask not just, whyis there war? But also, why is there peace? Not just,what are we doing wrong? But also, what have we been doing right?Because we have been doing something right,and it sure would be good to find out what it is.Thank you very much.(Applause).
时间：18:04
zh-cn:克里斯安德森（CA）：我很喜爱这个讲话。我认为在这间屋子里的很多人都会说那个扩张—你所讲到的那个，彼得辛格所说的，同时也是因为科技，因为其他人的可见性，因为对世界的感知使得一切都变小了而扩张。我的意思是说，也有些道理吧？
en:Chris Anderson: I loved that talk. I think a lot of people here in the room would saythat that expansion of — that you were talking about,that Peter Singer talks about, is also driven by, just by technology,by greater visibility of the other, and the sense that the worldis therefore getting smaller. I mean, is that also a grain of truth?
时间：18:22
zh-cn:史蒂芬品可：非常有道理。这既符合怀特的理论，允许我们享受合作的利益在一个更大更广的圈子中。而且，我认为它帮助我们想象对于他人是什么样子。我认为当你读到一些在中世纪很常见的那些可怕的遭遇的时候，你会想他们怎么能做出那样的事情，他们怎么能不同情他们残害的人？但是明显的是，对于他们而言，他们就像是外星人不会对他们的同类有感情。任何事情，我认为，能够将想象跟他人交换的情形更容易的东西，意味着它能够增强你对他人的道德心。
en:Steven Pinker: Very much. It would fit both in Wright&#39;s theory,that it allows us to enjoy the benefits of cooperationover larger and larger circles. But also, I think it helps usimagine what it&#39;s like to be someone else. I think when you readthese horrific tortures that were common in the Middle Ages, you think,how could they possibly have done it,how could they have not have empathized with the personthat they&#39;re disemboweling? But clearly,as far as they&#39;re concerned, this is just an alien beingthat does not have feelings akin to their own. Anything, I think,that makes it easier to imagine trading placeswith someone else means that it increases your moral considerationto that other person.
时间：19:02
zh-cn:CA：非常好，史蒂夫，我希望每个新闻媒体的持有人在明年的时候都听到这段讲话。我认为这太重要了。非常谢谢你。
en:CA: Well, Steve, I would love every news media owner to hear that talkat some point in the next year. I think it&#39;s really important. Thank you so much.
时间：19:08
zh-cn:SP：这是我的荣幸。
en:SP: My pleasure.
