时间： 0:11
zh-cn:从前，有一个可怕的疾病。儿童能得这个病，事实上，在这个国家里所有儿童能够得的疾病中，这个病杀伤力最大。绝大多数得病的儿童都死了。后来出现了一位特别聪明的发明家，也是个科学家。他研究出了一种解决办法，能在一定程度上控制住这个疾病。但是这个办法不是十全十美的。很多儿童还是死去了。但是用了这个办法，情况和从前比还是改善了很多。而且用这个方法的一个优点就是它差不多是免费的，不光特便宜，还特别容易使用。但是这个方法的最大的一个缺点是特别小的小孩子用不了，婴儿用不了，一岁的小孩子都用不了。
en:Once upon a time, there was a dread disease that afflicted children.And in fact, among all the diseases that existed in this land,it was the worst. It killed the most children.And along came a brilliant inventor, a scientist,who came up with a partial cure for that disease.And it wasn&#39;t perfect. Many children still died,but it was certainly better than what they had before.And one of the good things about this cure was that it was free,virtually free, and was very easy to use.But the worst thing about it was that you couldn&#39;t use iton the youngest children, on infants, and on one-year-olds.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:所以几年后，另一个科学家 —他可能没有像第一个科学家那么聪明，但是他在第一个发明的基础上作了创新 —得出了第二个解决办法。这第二个针对这个疾病的治疗方案的好处在于，它能用在婴儿和一岁大的小小孩身上。但这个治疗方案有个问题：它特别特别的贵。而且使用起来很复杂。虽然家长们用尽全力试图正确地使用这个方法，绝大多数家长最终还是用错了。好在由于这个方法这么复杂这么贵，他们只用它来保护婴儿和一岁大的小孩子。等小孩子长到两岁，家长们还是回去用老办法。
en:And so, as a consequence, a few years later,another scientist — perhaps maybe this scientistnot quite as brilliant as the one who had preceded him,but building on the invention of the first one —came up with a second cure.And the beauty of the second cure for this diseasewas that it could be used on infants and one-year-olds.And the problem with this cure was it was very expensive,and it was very complicated to use.And although parents tried as hard as they could to use it properly,almost all of them ended up using it wrong in the end.But what they did, of course, since it was so complicated and expensive,they only used it on the zero-year-olds and the one-year-olds.And they kept on using the existing cure that they hadon the two-year-olds and up.
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:这种情况持续了很长一段时间。大家都挺满意的。家长们就用这两个解决办法。直到有一天，有一个妈妈，她的孩子刚过两周岁，死于这个疾病。她就想：“ 我的宝宝才刚两岁。直至今日，我一直用的是那个复杂的贵的方法。然后我的宝宝两岁了，我就换成用那个便宜的，容易用的解决办法。如果（我没有换成那个便宜的方法）......”她不断地想着如果，就像其他所有那些失去了他们的宝宝的家长们一样，想着：“如果我能为我的宝宝做什么（来救他一命），就是我应该继续用那个又复杂又贵的方法。”于是她奔走相告，她说：“ 便宜没好货！看看这个这么便宜这么简单的解决办法，它怎么可能跟那个那么复杂和昂贵的方法一样好呢？”于是大家都想：“ 嗯，言之有理。我们换用便宜简单的办法，这没准是个错误。”于是政府也出来干预了。 他们听说了这个故事，也听了其他人的意见，政府说：“ 没错！你们都说得对。我们应该把这个（继续使用昂贵的治疗办法的）提案变成（人人必须遵守的）法律。我们必须把（对儿童）使用那个便宜又简单的治疗方案变成不合法的，不让任何人再用在他们的孩子身上了。”这下子大家都满意了，都高兴了。
en:And this went on for quite some time. People were happy.They had their two cures. Until a particular mother,whose child had just turned two, died of this disease.And she thought to herself, &quot;My child just turned two,and until the child turned two, I had always usedthis complicated, expensive cure, you know, this treatment.And then the child turned two, and I started usingthe cheap and easy treatment, and I wonder&quot; —and she wondered, like all parents who lose children wonder —&quot;if there isn&#39;t something that I could have done,like keep on using that complicated, expensive cure.&quot;And she told all the other people, and she said,&quot;How could it possibly be that somethingthat&#39;s cheap and simple works as well as somethingthat&#39;s complicated and expensive?&quot;And the people thought, &quot;You know, you&#39;re right.It probably is the wrong thing to do to switchand use the cheap and simple solution.&quot;And the government, they heard her story and the other people,and they said, &quot;Yeah, you&#39;re right, we should make a law.We should outlaw this cheap and simple treatmentand not let anybody use this on their children.&quot;And the people were happy. They were satisfied.
时间： 2:40
zh-cn:接下来很多很多年大家都这么做了，看起来万事大吉。但是后来，一个不起眼的经济学家， 自己也有孩子的，跳出来了。他用了这个又复杂又昂贵的方法，他也知道那个又便宜又简单的方法。他想来想去，这个贵的办法怎么看也不像是那么完美。所以他就想：“ 我不懂那些科学上的东西，但是我知道怎么看统计数据。说不定我应该去看看多年来的统计数据，看看到底这个又复杂又昂贵的方法是不是真的比那个又便宜又简单的方法好。”结果一看之下，当他翻遍了所有的数据他发现这个又复杂又昂贵的方法并不比那个便宜的方法有效。至少对于两岁和两岁以上的孩子 —当然这个便宜的方法两岁以下的还是不能用。（所以也没法比。）
en:For many years this went along, and everything was fine.But then along came a lowly economist, who had children himself,and he used the expensive and complicated treatment.But he knew about the cheap and simple one.And he thought about it, and the expensive onedidn&#39;t seem that great to him. So he thought,&quot;I don&#39;t know anything about science, but I do know something about data,so maybe I should go and look at the dataand see whether this expensive and complicated treatmentactually works any better than the cheap and simple one.&quot;And lo and behold, when he went through the data,he found that it didn&#39;t look like the expensive, complicatedsolution was any better than the cheap one,at least for the children who were two and older —the cheap one still didn&#39;t work on the kids who were younger.
时间： 3:27
zh-cn:所以他就跳出来和大家说：“ 我有个了不得的发现。原来（对两岁和两岁以上的儿童）我们可以就用这个便宜简单的方法，同时一年我们还可以省下三亿美元。用这些钱我们可以为我们的孩子们做更多的事。”结果家长们都不高兴了，他们说：“ 这真是耸人听闻！这个便宜简单的方法怎么可能和那个复杂的方法媲美呢？”接下来政府也生气了，尤其是那些靠这个贵的方法挣钱的人们特别生气。因为他们想：“ 我们怎么可能和一个基本上是免费的方法竞争呢？我们肯定会全失去整个市场。”这样大家都愤怒了，他们称这个经济学家坏人，他想说不定他应该离开这个国家几天，去一个叫牛津的地方，去找其他一些更聪明更开明的人谈谈，看看他们能不能听进这个故事。
en:And so, he went forth to the people and he said,&quot;I&#39;ve made this wonderful finding:it looks as if we could just use the cheap and simple solution,and by doing so we could save ourselves 300 million dollars a year,and we could spend that on our children in other ways.&quot;And the parents were very unhappy, and they said,&quot;This is a terrible thing, because how can the cheap and easy thingbe as good as the hard thing?&quot; And the government was very upset.And in particular, the people who made this expensive solutionwere very upset because they thought,&quot;How can we hope to compete with something that&#39;s essentially free?We would lose all of our market.&quot;And people were very angry, and they called him horrible names.And he decided that maybe he should leave the countryfor a few days, and seek out some more intelligent,open-minded people in a place called Oxford,and come and try and tell the story at that place.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:所以，我来到了这里。这不是个童话故事，这是在美国真实发生的事。我说的这个疾病其实是车祸，发生在儿童身上的车祸。这个免费的治疗方案是用成人用的安全带，而这个贵的治疗方案 —这个三亿美元一年的治疗方案 — 是儿童汽车安全座椅。我今天想给你们看看一些证据来支持我认为正确的观点：那就是对于两岁和两岁以上的孩子，安全汽车座椅其实没有什么用，没有证据显示有用。尽管大多数人竭尽全力试图推广使用安全座椅的法律，试图推广让孩子只用安全带是错的这个观点。然后我会谈到为什么，为什么人们死心塌地地相信这个错误观点？最后，我希望和你们介绍一个（在车祸中保护儿童的）新方法。这个新技术很可能比我们有的这两个方法都好，但是人们还不是太有热情去用。那是因为人们对于汽车安全座椅这个主意还是特别迷恋。好的。
en:And so, anyway, here I am. It&#39;s not a fairy tale.It&#39;s a true story about the United States today,and the disease I&#39;m referring to is actuallymotor vehicle accidents for children.And the free cure is adult seatbelts, and the expensive cure —the 300-million-dollar-a-year cure — is child car seats.And what I&#39;d like to talk to you about todayis some of the evidence why I believe this to be true:that for children two years old and up,there really is no real benefit — proven benefit — of car seats,in spite of the incredible energythat has been devoted toward expanding the lawsand making it socially unacceptableto put your children into seatbelts. And then talk about why —what is it that makes that true?And then, finally talk a little bit about a third way,about another technology, which is probably better than anything we have,but which — there hasn&#39;t been any enthusiasm for adoptionprecisely because people are so enamoredwith the current car seat solution. OK.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:多数情况下当你试图研究统计数据时，这些数据包含了十分复杂的背景故事。想要发现你要找的东西是很困难的 —好在当你比较安全带和儿童汽车座椅时没这个问题。美国政府保存了一份数据包含了 1975 年以来每起车祸死亡的案子。也就是说（1975 年以来）每起车祸，只要有一个人死亡，他们就记录下所有车祸中涉及到的人的信息。所以当你研究这些数据时 — 这些数据就在国家高速交通系统安全局的网页上。你可以通过看这些原始数据，发现对于两岁以上的儿童，支持儿童汽车座椅（比安全带好）的证据是非常少的。这就是统计数据。这里显示两岁到六岁的儿童 —当孩子六岁后他们就不用安全座椅了，所以没的可比 —当车祸中有至少一个人死亡时，如果没有用任何保护措施，这些车祸中的儿童死亡率是 29.3%。如果孩子坐在汽车安全座椅里，死亡率是 18.2%。如果孩子戴了腰上和肩膀上的安全带， 在这份原始数据中，死亡率是 19.4%。 有趣的是，使用仅仅是腰部的安全带，死亡率只有 16.7%。 实际上，原则上来讲腰部安全带应该比腰部和肩部都有保护的安全带效果差。这个数据提醒了我们当我们看真实的原始数据时，需要考量成百上千的因素，它们都有可能影响最后的结果。
en:So, many times when you try to do research on data,it records complicated stories — it&#39;s hard to find in the data.It doesn&#39;t turn out to be the case when you look at seatbelts versus car seats.So the United States keeps a data setof every fatal accident that&#39;s happened since 1975.So in every car crash in which at least one person dies,they have information on all of the people.So if you look at that data — it&#39;s right up on the National HighwayTransportation Safety Administration&#39;s website —you can just look at the raw data,and begin to get a sense of the limited amount of evidencethat&#39;s in favor of car seats for children aged two and up.So, here is the data. Here I have, among two- to six-year-olds —anyone above six, basically no one uses car seats,so you can&#39;t compare — 29.3 percent of the children who are unrestrainedin a crash in which at least one person dies, themselves die.If you put a child in a car seat, 18.2 percent of the children die.If they&#39;re wearing a lap-and-shoulder belt, in this raw data,19.4 percent die. And interestingly, wearing a lap-only seatbelt,16.7 percent die. And actually, the theory tells youthat the lap-only seatbelt&#39;s got to be worsethan the lap-and-shoulder belt. And that just reminds youthat when you deal with raw data, there are hundredsof confounding variables that may be getting in the way.
时间： 6:34
zh-cn:所以我们换了个角度来看，我们还是用这些数据，但是作成图表所以看起来方便些。这些黄色的条带代表使用汽车安全座椅的（儿童的死亡率），橙色的条带代表使用腰肩安全带的（儿童的死亡率）， 红色的条带代表了使用腰部安全带的（儿童的死亡率）。这些条带都已经和没用任何保护措施的（儿童的死亡率）取过比例了。条带越高越好。所以这（左边的图）就是我刚才给你们看的数据。这条最高的条带，就是大家拼命不承认的。如果我们（在这个研究中）考量所有基本的因素，比如这个车祸本身有多严重，车里的孩子坐在哪个位置上，等等，还有孩子的实际年龄，那么结论就是中间这组条带。你可以看到腰部安全带开始看起来不如（原始数据里显示的）安全了。最后，最右边的这组条带，是在我们真正考虑了所有可能的影响因素之后的结论。你可以想象不同的车祸，五十种，七十五种，一百种不同的车祸，
en:So what we do in the study is — and this is just presentingthe same information, but turned into a figure to make it easier.So the yellow bar represents car seats,the orange bar lap-and-shoulder, and the red bar lap-only seatbelts.And this is all relative to unrestrained —the bigger the bar, the better. Okay.So, this is the data I just showed, OK?So the highest bar is what you&#39;re striving to beat.So you can control for the basic things, like how hard the crash was,what seat the child was sitting in, etc., the age of the child.And that&#39;s that middle set of bars.And so, you can see that the lap-only seatbeltsstart to look worse once you do that.And then finally, the last set of bars,which are really controlling for everythingyou could possibly imagine about the crash,50, 75, 100 different characteristics of the crash.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:而最后你发现使用汽车安全座椅和使用腰肩安全带，当我们比较谁能救命时，平均的死亡率是完全一样的。同时死亡率的分散程度都很小。而且还不是仅仅对所有的车祸都是这样，当你比较任何一种类型车祸，这个结论都适用。有个现象很有趣：当你比较那些撞车头的车祸 —也就是当车祸发生时，是车头撞上了任何别的东西 —汽车安全座椅实际上还是稍微好些。而我觉得这必有原因。原因就是为了能够得到许可生产一种汽车安全座椅，你需要达到一些国家定的标准，在测试的时候，假想的车祸都是直接撞车头的。但是当你看其它种类的车祸的时候，比如车后面被撞了，汽车座椅就不是那么有用了。我认为这是因为它们都是针对撞车头的测试来设计的，就像大家通常会做的，针对明文规定的政策来准备对策，对车辆安全的问题也是一样。
en:And what you find is that the car seats and the lap-and-shoulder belts,when it comes to saving lives, fatalities look exactly identical.And the standard error bands are relatively small around these estimates as well.And it&#39;s not just overall. It&#39;s very robustto anything you want to look at.One thing that&#39;s interesting: if you look at frontal-impact crashes —when the car crashes, the front hits into something —indeed, what you see is that the car seats look a little bit better.And I think this isn&#39;t just chance.In order to have the car seat approved,you need to pass certain federal standards,all of which involve slamming your car into a direct frontal crash.But when you look at other types of crashes, like rear-impact crashes,indeed, the car seats don&#39;t perform as well.And I think that&#39;s because they&#39;ve been optimized to pass,as we always expect people to do,to optimize relative to bright-line rulesabout how affected the car will be.
时间： 8:14
zh-cn:你还可以提出另一个观点：汽车座椅应该会变得越来越安全。如果我们看最近发生的车祸数据 —这里整个的数据是过去三十年的 —你应该会发现新数据显示汽车座椅更安全。新的汽车安全座椅比旧的设计好得多了。但是事实上，最新的数据显示腰肩安全带事实上比汽车安全座椅更好。人们会说：“ 这不可能，这不合理。”如果你问家长们，他们的观点是：“ 汽车座椅那么贵，那么复杂，它们有一大团这样那样的搭扣。它们怎么可能会不如安全带有用呢？它们是这么贵这么复杂！”这是个挺有趣的逻辑。我想一般人都会相信。另一个逻辑家长们用的，是：“ 如果安全带更安全的话，政府不会无缘无故地就不让我们给孩子用的。”
en:And the other thing you might argue is,&quot;Well, car seats have got a lot better over time.And so if we look at recent crashes —the whole data set is almost 30 years&#39; worth of data —you won&#39;t see it in the recent crashes. The new car seats are far, far better.&quot;But indeed, in recent crashes the lap-and-shoulder seatbelts,actually, are doing even better than the car seats.They say, &quot;Well, that&#39;s impossible, that can&#39;t be.&quot;And the line of argument, if you ask parents, is,&quot;But car seats are so expensive and complicated,and they have this big tangle of latches,how could they possibly not work better than seatbeltsbecause they are so expensive and complicated?&quot;It&#39;s kind of an interesting logic,I think, that people use. And the other logic, they say,&quot;Well, the government wouldn&#39;t have told us [to] use themif they weren&#39;t much better.&quot;
时间： 8:57
zh-cn:但讽刺的是政府让我们用安全座椅，实际上是有点无缘无故的。这真是本着某些激动的家长的苦苦恳求。他们的孩子长过了两岁，之后在车祸中过世了。他们的恳求使得政府通过了这些法律，并不是通过真的研究得出的结论。通过看这些抽象的统计数据， 我想我只能证明这么多。所以当我的朋友们来家里吃晚饭时 —我们有一次露天烧烤的时候 — 我问他们的意见，我该怎么做来进一步证明我的推论。他们说：“ 你为什么不自己做些碰撞测试呢？”我说：“ 这是个好主意。”所以我们试着委托人做些碰撞测试。结果我们给国内那些作汽车碰撞测试的机构打了一圈电话，没有一个愿意替我们做测试的。他们说 — 有些是明白说的，有些是含含糊糊说的 —“ 我们的生意都是来自那些生产汽车安全座椅的商家的。我们不能冒着得罪他们的风险，（为你）测试安全带和安全座椅比（哪个更好）。”
en:But what&#39;s interesting is the government telling us to use themis not actually based on very much.It really is based on some impassioned pleas of parentswhose children died after they turned two,which has led to the passage of all these laws — not very much on data.So you can only get so far, I think, in telling your storyby using these abstract statistics.And so I had some friends over to dinner, and I was asking —we had a cookout — I was asking them what advice they might have for meabout proving my point. They said, &quot;Why don&#39;t you run some crash tests?&quot;And I said, &quot;That&#39;s a great idea.&quot;So we actually tried to commission some crash tests.And it turns out that as we called around to the independentcrash test companies around the country,none of them wanted to do our crash testbecause they said, some explicitly, some not so explicitly,&quot;All of our business comes from car seat manufacturers.We can&#39;t risk alienating them by testing seatbelts relative to car seats.&quot;
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:直至今日，最终一家机构，还是帮了我们一把。他们说只要是匿名的，他们乐意替我们做这个测试。所以（条件是）不能透露他们的名字，而且每个撞毁的车座椅我们得付一千五百美元，我们去纽约州的水牛城（做了这个测试）。这里就是我们的先锋部队了，这些是用来做测试的假人，排队等着上台。这里你看到的是我们怎么做这些测试。这里，他们并不真的撞坏整辆汽车，要知道 —为这类测试撞毁整辆车不值得。所以他们用的是这些双人长座椅，然后把汽车座椅或者安全带装在这些座椅上。我想让你看看这个图像，我想着给你一个很好的理由为什么家长们觉得汽车安全座椅好。看看这个（假）孩子，坐在汽车安全座椅中，难道他看起来不是舒舒服服，整装待发么？难道他看起来不是什么天灾人祸都能挺过去么？然后你再看看这个坐在后排的（仅仅用了安全带的假）孩子，看起来他已经（被安全带勒的）喘不过来气了，更别提发生车祸了。当你看这段碰撞测试录像的时候，令人难以置信的是，坐在后排的（只用了安全带的假）孩子安然无恙。碰撞发生的时候，这整个装置会被使劲摔到前面的墙上，速度是三十英里每小时（四十八公里每小时），然后我们看发生了什么。
en:Now, eventually, one did. Under the conditions of anonymity,they said they would be happy to do this test for us —so anonymity, and 1,500 dollars per seat that we crashed.And so, we went to Buffalo, New York,and here is the precursor to it.These are the crash test dummies,waiting for their chance to take the center stage.And then, here&#39;s how the crash test works.Here, they don&#39;t actually crash the entire car, you know —it&#39;s not worth ruining a whole car to do it.So they just have these bench seats,and they strap the car seat and the seatbelt onto it.So I just wanted you to look at this.And I think this gives you a good idea of why parents thinkcar seats are so great. Look at the kid in the car seat.Does he not look content, ready to go,like he could survive anything? And then, if you look at the kid in back,it looks like he&#39;s already choking before the crash even happens.It&#39;s hard to believe, when you look at this, thatthat kid in back is going to do very well when you get in a crash.So this is going to be a crashwhere they&#39;re going to slam this thing forward into a wallat 30 miles an hour, and see what happens. OK?
时间：10:52
zh-cn:这里请允许我展示给你们看发生了什么。对了，这两个是模拟三岁大的孩子的假人，— 这里是（坐在）安全座椅（里的孩子）。现在注意两件事，注意假人的头部向前猛冲，基本上撞在他自己的膝盖上。这是发生在孩子坐在汽车安全座椅里的情况。第二是注意在反弹的时候，汽车座椅整个飞起来，飞在空中，整个汽车座椅飞来飞去。请记住在这个汽车安全座椅测试中有两个关键：一个是这个汽车座椅是由一个会装汽车座椅的人装上的，他已经装了超过一千个汽车座椅了。而且这个座椅是装在双人长椅上。双人长椅是最适合装汽车座椅的，因为这种椅子的后背是平的，汽车座椅容易装牢固。所以说这个测试其实是偏帮着汽车安全座椅的。同意吧？所以这个汽车座椅中的假孩子的结果不错，
en:So, let me show you what happens.These are three-year-old dummies, by the way.So here — this is the car seat. Now watch two things:watch how the head goes forward,and basically hits the knees — and this is in the car seat —and watch how the car seat flies around, in the rebound, up in the air.The car seat&#39;s moving all over the place.Bear in mind there are two things about this.This is a car seat that was installed by someonewho has installed 1,000 car seats, who knew exactly how to do it.And also it turned out these bench seatsare the very best way to install car seats.Having a flat back makes it much easier to install them.And so this is a test that&#39;s very much rigged in favor of the car seat,OK? So, that kid in this crash fared very well.
时间：11:31
zh-cn:按照国家标准这类碰撞测试你得得到危险系数少于一千，才能得到执照生产这个汽车安全座椅。这里就不介绍危险系数是怎么评的了。这个汽车座椅的得分是 450。从消费者评分来看，这个汽车座椅其实高于一般水平，所以也表现很好。接下来，现在我们看到的是这个用安全带的假孩子，同样的测试，他其实几乎没怎么飞起来，尤其是和那个坐在汽车安全座椅中的假孩子比。有趣的是，这个摄像机的效果很差，因为摄像机是他们为了给安全座椅们录像而装的，所以根本没法把摄像机挪到后边你也就看不到反弹的时候这个假孩子的情况。总而言之，在这两起碰撞测试中，这个用安全带的三岁大的假人表现稍差，得分是 500，一般的范围是 400 到 1000。但是如果你单把 500 这个危险系数，给政府看，跟他们说：“ 我设计了一个新的汽车安全座椅，（危险系数是500。）我希望你能批准我销售这个座椅。”他们会说：“ 这个汽车座椅非常好，表现很好。”（因为）它的危险系数才 500， 比 1000 少就够了。所以说这个安全带可以被当作汽车安全座椅一样批准使用，毫无问题。
en:The federal standards arethat you have to score below a 1,000to be an approved car seat on this crash,in some metric of units which are not important.And this crash would have been about a 450.So this car seat was actually an above-average car seatfrom Consumer Reports, and did quite well.So the next one. Now, this is the kid, same crash,who is in the seatbelt. He hardly moves at all, actually,relative to the other child. The funny thing is,the cam work is terrible because they&#39;ve only set it upto do the car seats, and so, they actually don&#39;t even have a wayto move the camera so you can see the kid that&#39;s on the rebound.Anyway, it turns out that those two crashes, that actuallythe three-year-old did slightly worse. So, he gets about a 500out of — you know, on this range — relative to a 400 and something.But still, if you just took that data from that crashto the federal government, and said, &quot;I have invented a new car seat.I would like you to approve it for selling,&quot;then they would say, &quot;This is a fantastic new car seat, it works great.It only got a 500, it could have gotten as high up as a 1,000.&quot;And this seatbelt would have passed with flying colorsinto being approved as a car seat.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:所以一定程度上，这个事实告诉我们，并不是大家装汽车座椅的时候装错了，让孩子冒风险。根本是安全座椅并不更安全。这里是另一个碰撞测试，全发生在同一时刻。你可以看到汽车座椅费了长的多的时间回到原位 —在反弹的时候汽车座椅需要长的多的时间（恢复原位）。另外使用安全带的假孩子移动得少的多。我再给你们看一个用模拟六岁大的孩子的假人作的测试。这个假装是六岁大的孩子坐在汽车安全座椅中，结果 —看起来真恐怖，但是数据其实不错，400 分。所以他可以没事。没有什么问题会发生在他身上。这里是假装六岁大的假人用了安全带，事实上他们两个得到了几乎完全一样的分数，只差了一两分。所以说对于六岁大的孩子，汽车安全座椅一点作用都没有。
en:So, in some sense, what this is suggestingis that it&#39;s not just that people are setting up their car seats wrong,which is putting children at risk. It&#39;s just that, fundamentally,the car seats aren&#39;t doing much.So here&#39;s the crash. So these are timed at the same time,so you can see that it takes much longer with the car seat —at rebound, it takes a lot longer —but there&#39;s just a lot less movement for child who&#39;s in the seatbelt.So, I&#39;ll show you the six-year-old crashes as well.The six-year-old is in a car seat, and it turns outthat looks terrible, but that&#39;s great. That&#39;s like a 400, OK?So that kid would do fine in the crash.Nothing about that would have been problematic to the child at all.And then here&#39;s the six-year-old in the seatbelt,and in fact, they get exactly within, you know,within one or two points of the same. So really, for the six-year-old,the car seat did absolutely nothing whatsoever.
时间：13:26
zh-cn:这里是更多的数据。所以在很大程度上 —我曾被一个科学家批评说：“ 就凭着四个例子，你永远也不可能发表你的研究结果。” 指的是我只做了四次的碰撞实验。所以我写信回复他，我说：“ 如果我有四万五千零四个例子，那又怎么样？”因为我有另外四万五千个实际发生的车祸例子。我只是觉得，（这个研究手段的差异）很有趣：使用真实事例，对于经济学家来说是理所当然的，却是科学研究工作者们选择不去做的 —科学家们宁愿作实验，用问题百出的实验科学，就像我们使用假人做研究，而不用三十年来我们看到的，关于儿童（安全）和汽车安全座椅（的表现）的真实数据。
en:That&#39;s some more evidence, so in some sense —I was criticized by a scientist, who said, &quot;You could never publisha study with an n of 4,&quot; meaning those four crashes.So I wrote him back and I said, &quot;What about an n of 45,004?&quot;Because I had the other 45,000 other real-world crashes.And I just think that it&#39;s interesting that the ideaof using real-world crashes, which is very much somethingthat economists think would be the right thing to do,is something that scientists don&#39;t actually, usually think —they would rather use a laboratory,a very imperfect science of looking at the dummies,than actually 30 years of data of what we&#39;ve seenwith children and with car seats.
时间：14:03
zh-cn:所以我认为这个谜团的答案，其实是已经存在的另一个更好的解决办法，只是没人感兴趣，因为每个人都还是对汽车安全座椅的所谓表现挺满意。如果你从头设计，回到一片空白的阶段，“ 你只是想要保护后座上的孩子”。我不认为在座的诸位会说：“ 好的，我们应该这么做，让我们给成人设计特别安全的安全带，然后让我们拿一些链子拼凑一下，就给孩子用这个奇形怪状的装置。”我的意思是，为什么不从这个角度开始想 — 怎么保护后座上坐的人，如果这个人不是个孩子？基本上，我们会这么做，我并不知道这个装置会有多贵，但是我不认为这个会比一个普通的汽车安全座椅更贵多少。这个基本上是一个 — 你可以看到，这个可以折叠起来 — 翻到后座里去。平时这就是一个正常的后座，成人能用的，一翻下来，孩子们就可以坐在它上面。这个装置是可以装在车里的。我认为这不会是个很昂贵的办法，而且这个办法应该比我们现有的方法好的多。
en:And so I think the answer to this puzzleis that there&#39;s a much better solution out there,that&#39;s gotten nobody excited because everyoneis so delighted with the way car seats are presumably working.And if you think from a design perspective,about going back to square one, and say,&quot;I just want to protect kids in the back seat.&quot;I don&#39;t there&#39;s anyone in this room who&#39;d say,&quot;Well, the right way to start would be,let&#39;s make a great seat belt for adults.And then, let&#39;s make this really big contraptionthat you have to rig up to it in this daisy chain.&quot;I mean, why not start — who&#39;s sitting in the back seat anyway except for kids?But essentially, do something like this,which I don&#39;t know exactly how much it would cost to do,but there&#39;s no reason I could seewhy this should be much more expensive than a regular car seat.It&#39;s just actually — you see, this is folding up — it&#39;s behind the seat.You&#39;ve got a regular seat for adults, and then you fold it down,and the kid sits on top, and it&#39;s integrated.It seems to me that this can&#39;t be a very expensive solution,and it&#39;s got to work better than what we already have.
时间：15:01
zh-cn:现在的问题变成，到底有没有希望，来开始使用这样的一个东西，一个可能能救很多条性命的东西？我想，答案尽在下面这个故事里。这个答案可以解释为什么汽车安全座椅那么成功，也可以解释为什么我的新发明可能某一天会被应用，当然也可能不会。这个答案包含在下面这个我爸爸讲给我听的故事里，当是他是一个大夫，在英国的美国空军驻地工作。这是很久以前的事了。那时候（作为一个大夫），你还可以有很多自主权。有的病人来找我爸爸治疗，但是我爸爸诊断出他们没病。他有一大罐安慰药片，他可以给这些病人，他会说：“ 要是吃了药一周后还不舒服，再来找我。”绝大部分的病人不会再来。当然有一部分还是会回来找他，他如果还是觉得这些人没病，他就会使用另一罐安慰药片。这罐药都是特别大片的药它们大到没法吞咽。这些药片对我来说就像是汽车安全座椅。人们看到它们，自然而然地会说：“ 天啊，这东西这么大，这么难以下咽，如果这个还治不好我的病，你想想，那没什么药能了。”
en:So the question is, is there any hope for adoption of something like this,which would presumably save a lot of lives?And I think the answer, perhaps, lies in a story.The answer both to why has a car seat been so successful,and why this may someday be adopted or not,lies in a story that my dad told me, relating to when he was a doctorin the U.S. Air Force in England. And this is a long time ago:you were allowed to do things then you can&#39;t do today.So, my father would have patients come inwho he thought were not really sick.And he had a big jar full of placebo pills that he would give them,and he&#39;d say, &quot;Come back in a week, if you still feel lousy.&quot;OK, and most of them would not come back,but some of them would come back.And when they came back, he, still convinced they were not sick,had another jar of pills. In this jar were huge horse pills.They were almost impossible to swallow.And these, to me, are the analogy for the car seats.People would look at these and say, &quot;Man, this thing is so bigand so hard to swallow. If this doesn&#39;t make me feel better,you know, what possibly could?&quot;
时间：16:09
zh-cn:结果绝大部分回来的病人都没再来找。因为这次大药片起了安慰作用。但是时不时地，还是会有一个病人第三次回来，觉得他还是有病，这次我爸爸就会拿出他的第三个药罐。这罐药，他告诉我，是他能找到的最小的安慰药片，小到你几乎看不清它们。他会对病人说，你看，我知道我上次给了你那些大药片，那些看起来挺高深的，难以下咽的药片（结果没用）。但是这次，我得到了这些特别强效的药片，它们特别小，你几乎看不见，（就像我给你们看的我的发明一样，你一般都注意不到。）”
en:And it turned out that most people wouldn&#39;t come back,because it worked. But every once in a while,there was still a patient convinced that he was sick,and he&#39;d come back. And my dad had a third jar of pills.And the jar of pills he had, he said,were the tiniest little pills he could find,so small you could barely see them.And he would say, listen, I know I gave you that huge pill,that complicated, hard-to-swallow pill before,but now I&#39;ve got one that&#39;s so potent,that is really tiny and small and almost invisible.It&#39;s almost like this thing here, which you can&#39;t even see.&quot;
时间：16:42
zh-cn:结果再也没有人回头来找他。每次我爸爸给出这第三种药片，这种小药片，再没有人回头来找他说他们有病了。所以我爸爸总是拿这个说嘴，说这种小小的强力药片反而有最强的安慰剂的效果。某种程度上，如果我爸爸的故事真的说明问题，我认为你也会开始看到这种内置的安全座椅，很快地变成人手一件的东西。当然另一个可能性是这些病人来找了我爸爸三趟，三趟都拿了安慰剂回去，还是觉得不舒服，他就去找别的大夫了。这是有可能的。如果这个可能性是真的，我想我们在接下来很长一段时间里，只好继续用传统的汽车安全座椅。谢谢大家。
en:And it turned out that never,in all the times my dad gave out this pill, the really tiny pill,did anyone ever come back still complaining of sickness.So, my dad always took that as evidencethat this little, teeny, powerful pillhad the ultimate placebo effect. And in some sense, if that&#39;s the right story,I think integrated car seats you will see, very quickly,becoming something that everyone has. The other possible conclusionis, well, maybe after coming to my father three times,getting sent home with placebos, he still felt sick,he went and found another doctor.And that&#39;s completely possible. And if that&#39;s the case,then I think we&#39;re stuck with conventional car seats for a long time to come.Thank you very much.
时间：17:20
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:24
zh-cn:（听众发问：我只想问一个问题，当我们使用安全带时我们不光是为了防止车祸造成的死亡，也是为了防止车祸造成的受伤。你研究了死亡率，但是没有研究受重伤的可能性。有没有任何数据是表明儿童汽车安全座椅在防止受伤这方面比安全带效果差，或者至少不比安全带好的？因为这会加强你的论据。）
en:(Audience: I just wanted to ask you, when we wear seatbeltswe don&#39;t necessarily wear them just to prevent loss of life,it&#39;s also to prevent lots of serious injury.Your data looks at fatalities. It doesn&#39;t look at serious injury.Is there any data to show that child seatsare actually less effective, or just as effective as seatbeltsfor serious injury? Because that would prove your case.)
时间：17:42
zh-cn:是的，这是个好问题。在我的数据里，另一组数据里，我调查了新泽西州的车祸案例。两种防范措施在减少受伤这方面差异很小。在今天大家看到的这组数据中，使用安全座椅和使用安全带之间，在减少受伤这方面，统计上来看没有任何显著差异。在新泽西州的统计数据中，不同的数据，因为我们看到的不仅仅是致命的车祸。而在新泽西州的所有车祸。结果表明两种防范措施有一成的差别，但是总的来说这些车祸造成的都是小伤。有趣的是，我得说，尽管我不认同，有篇医学论文用新泽州的数据很难解释，这篇医学论文说汽车安全座椅的安全性要好得多（比一成多）。
en:Steven Levitt: Yeah, that&#39;s a great question. In my data, and in another data setI&#39;ve looked at for New Jersey crashes,I find very small differences in injury.So in this data, it&#39;s statistically insignificant differencesin injury between car seats and lap-and-shoulder belts.In the New Jersey data, which is different,because it&#39;s not just fatal crashes,but all crashes in New Jersey that are reported,it turns out that there is a 10 percent difference in injuries,but generally they&#39;re the minor injuries.Now, what&#39;s interesting, I should say this as a disclaimer,there is medical literature that is very difficult to resolve with this other data,which suggests that car seats are dramatically better.
时间：18:20
zh-cn:这篇论文用了非常不同的实验手段，包括 —在车祸发生后，他们从保险公司那里得到了车祸中牵连的人的名字，他们给这些人打了电话，详细问了事情发生的经过。我实在是解释不了。我希望能有机会和这些医学工作者一起工作，来弄明白为什么（我们的结果）会有那么大的差异，会有这些天差地别的结果。但这（个受伤率的议题）明显是个关键的问题。这个问题就是，即使（汽车安全座椅稍好一点）—，我们有没有那么多车祸受伤的情况，使得我们的花费值回票价？这是个难以判断的问题。即使这些人的结果是对的，我们还是不清楚这些汽车安全座椅是不是值得。
en:And they use a completely different methodology that involves —after the crash occurs, they get from the insurance companiesthe names of the people who were in the crash,and they call them on the phone,and they asked them what happened.And I really can&#39;t resolve, yet,and I&#39;d like to work with these medical researchersto try to understand how there can be these differences,which are completely at odds with one another.But it&#39;s obviously a critical question.The question is even if — are there enough serious injuriesto make these cost-effective? It&#39;s kind of tricky.Even if they&#39;re right, it&#39;s not so clearthat they&#39;re so cost-effective.
