时间： 0:11
zh-cn:自从我足够大拿起相机以来，我一直热衷摄影，但我今天想和你们分享15张我最珍爱的照片，它们没有一张是我拍的。没有艺术指导，没有造型师，没有重拍的机会，更别提灯光效果。事实上，它们大多数是随机找来的游客拍的。
en:Photography has been my passionever since I was old enough to pick up a camera,but today I want to share with youthe 15 most treasured photos of mine,and I didn&#39;t take any of them.There were no art directors, no stylists,no chance for reshoots, not even any regard for lighting.In fact, most of them were taken by random tourists.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:我的故事源起于有一次我获邀到纽约市演讲，我的妻子拍了张照片，我抱着我的女儿那天是她的一岁生日。我们站在第57大道和第5大道的交界处。碰巧一年后，我们又回到了纽约市，所以我们决定拍一张同样的照片。
en:My story beginswhen I was in New York City for a speaking engagement,and my wife took this picture of me holding my daughteron her first birthday. We&#39;re on the corner of 57th and 5th.We happened to be back in New York exactly a year later,so we decided to take the same picture.
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:你可以猜到事情是怎么发展的。接近女儿三岁生日时，妻子说，“嘿，你为什么不带萨比娜回纽约，来个父女之旅，继续这个小传统？”也就是从这次开始我们找路上的游客帮我们拍照。
en:Well you can see where this is going.Approaching my daughter&#39;s third birthday,my wife said, &quot;Hey, why don&#39;t you take Sabina back to New Yorkand make it a father-daughter trip, and continue the ritual?&quot;This is when we started asking passing tourists to take the picture.
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:你们知道，把相机递给一个完全陌生人拍照是多么普遍而又不寻常的事。没有人会拒绝，幸运的是也没有人拿着我们的相机跑掉。
en:You know, it&#39;s remarkable how universalthe gesture is of handing your camera to a total stranger.No one&#39;s ever refused, and luckily no one&#39;s ever run off with our camera.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:那时，我们并不知道这样的旅程会深深改变我们的生活。对我们而言，它渐渐变得神圣起来。这张是在911的几周后拍的，我那时尝试解释911那天发生的事试图采用让这个五岁孩子明白的方式。
en:Back then, we had no idea how much this trip would change our lives.It&#39;s really become sacred to us.This one was taken just weeks after 9/11,and I found myself trying to explain what had happened that dayin ways a five-year-old could understand.
时间： 1:33
zh-cn:所以这些照片远远不止是记录了一个瞬间，或一次特别的旅程。它们是我们保藏时间的方式记住10月的某一周，让我们回想岁月，以及我们年复一年是如何变化的，不止是身体上的变化，而是各方面的变化。因为，我每年们拍同样的照片，我们的视角并不一样，女儿她到达新的里程碑，我透过她的眼睛看待生活，看她如何反应，如何看待一切。这是我们亲子相处的时间，是一年里面我们最珍惜也最期待的时间。
en:So these photos are far more than proxiesfor a single moment, or even a specific trip.They&#39;re also ways for us to freeze timefor one week in Octoberand reflect on our timesand how we change from year to year,and not just physically, but in every way.Because while we take the same photo,our perspectives change,and she reaches new milestones,and I get to see life through her eyes,and how she interacts with and sees everything.This very focused time we get to spend togetheris something we cherish and anticipate the entire year.
时间： 2:16
zh-cn:最近一次旅程，我们在路上走着，她突然停了下来，她指着一间玩偶店的红色外棚说她小时候非常喜欢那外棚也就是从我们之前的旅程开始。她向我形容5岁的时候，她站在那个拍照点时的感受。她说她记得第一次看到那个地方时她的心快要跳出来，那是9年前的事了。现在她去纽约关注的是大学校园，因为她决定要去纽约读书。我突然明白：我们创造的最重要的事情之一是我们的记忆。
en:Recently, on one trip, we were walking,and she stops dead in her tracks,and she points to a red awning of the doll storethat she loved when she was littleon our earlier trips.And she describes to me the feeling she feltas a five-year-old standing in that exact spot.She said she remembers her heart bursting out of her chestwhen she saw that place for the very first timenine years earlier.And now what she&#39;s looking at in New Yorkare colleges,because she&#39;s determined to go to school in New York.And it hit me: One of the most important thingswe all make are memories.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:所以我希望分享这种主动且有意识去创造记忆的想法。我不知道你们的情况，但我个人而言，除了这15张照片，我不会经常出现在家庭照片里面。我总是那个拿相机拍照的人。我希望鼓励今天在座的各位，争取到照片里面去，别犹豫，走向前问路人，“可以帮我们拍照吗？”谢谢。（掌声）
en:So I want to share the idea of taking an active rolein consciously creating memories.I don&#39;t know about you, but aside from these 15 shots,I&#39;m not in many of the family photos.I&#39;m always the one taking the picture.So I want to encourage everyone todayto get in the shot,and don&#39;t hesitate to go up to someone and ask,&quot;Will you take our picture?&quot;Thank you. (Applause)
