时间： 0:11
zh-cn:一年前，我跟你们谈起一本就快写完的书，在这期间它出版了。今天我想跟你们谈谈这本书引发的一些争议。这本书名叫《空白的石板》，它基于一个流行的观点即人类的思想是一块空白的石板，它所有的构造都来自于社交，文化，养育，经验。在二十世纪里，“空白的石板”是很有影响的观点。下面有几条表达这个意思的语录：“人无天性”，来自历史学家Jose Ortega y Gasset;“人无本能”，来自人类学家Ashley Montagu;“人的大脑有能力做各种行为但没有任何预先的倾向”，来自已故科学家史蒂芬·古尔德。
en:A year ago, I spoke to you about a bookthat I was just in the process of completing,that has come out in the interim, and I would like to talk to you todayabout some of the controversies that that book inspired.The book is called &quot;The Blank Slate,&quot;based on the popular ideathat the human mind is a blank slate,and that all of its structure comes fromsocialization, culture, parenting, experience.The &quot;blank slate&quot; was an influential idea in the 20th century.Here are a few quotes indicating that:&quot;Man has no nature,&quot; from the historianJose Ortega y Gasset;&quot;Man has no instincts,&quot; from theanthropologist Ashley Montagu;&quot;The human brain is capable of a full range of behaviorsand predisposed to none,&quot; from the late scientist Stephen Jay Gould.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:有几条理由来怀疑人的思想是一块空白的石板，其中一些只不过来自于常识。正如这些年里许多人告诉我的那样，任何有几个小孩的人孩子带着特定的性情和天赋来到这个世界；这些并非都来自外界。噢，任何人要是既有孩子又有宠物，一定会注意到，接触到言语的儿童会习得人类语言，而宠物则不会，想必是由于他们之间有些先天的差异。任何曾跟异性交往过的人都知道，男人的思想跟女人的思想并非难以区分。我认为在对人的科学研究中也有越来越多的结果表明我们并非生而为白板。其中之一是来自人类学对人类共性的研究。如果你学过人类学，你就会知道它是人类学家的一种职业乐趣，用来展现其他的文明能有多么奇特，据说有些地方所有事都跟这儿相反。但如果你去审视一下世界上的文明有何共同点，你会发现有大量的行为和情绪，以及解释世界的方式，都能在世界上的6000多个文化中找到。人类学家Donald Brown试着把它们全部罗列出来，从审美，感情，年龄待遇，一直到断奶，武器，天气，尝试控制，白色，以及世界观。
en:There are a number of reasons to doubt that the human mindis a blank slate,and some of them just come from common sense.As many people have told me over the years,anyone who&#39;s had more than one childknows that kids come into the worldwith certain temperaments and talents;it doesn&#39;t all come from the outside.Oh, and anyone whohas both a child and a house pethas surely noticed that the child, exposed to speech,will acquire a human language,whereas the house pet won&#39;t,presumably because of some innate different between them.And anyone who&#39;s ever beenin a heterosexual relationship knows thatthe minds of men and the minds of women are not indistinguishable.There are also, I think,increasing results fromthe scientific study of humansthat, indeed, we&#39;re not born blank slates.One of them, from anthropology,is the study of human universals.If you&#39;ve ever taken anthropology, you know that it&#39;s a —kind of an occupationalpleasure of anthropologists to showhow exotic other cultures can be,and that there are places out there where, supposedly,everything is the opposite to the way it is here.But if you insteadlook at what is common to the world&#39;s cultures,you find that there is an enormously rich setof behaviors and emotionsand ways of construing the worldthat can be found in all of the world&#39;s 6,000-odd cultures.The anthropologist Donald Brown has tried to list them all,and they range from aesthetics,affection and age statusesall the way down to weaning, weapons, weather,attempts to control, the color whiteand a worldview.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:此外，遗传学和神经科学日益表明大脑是错综复杂地构造起来的。这是神经生物学家Paul Thompson和他的同事最近的一项研究，在研究中他们使用磁共振造像测量了灰质————即脑皮层的外层——在一个两两成对的人的庞大样本中的分布。他们用一种人为的色彩方案对大脑的不同部分的灰质厚度的相互关系进行编码，没有区别的被编码为紫色，除紫色外的其他颜色表示统计显著的相关性。好了，这是随机把两个人配对的结果。根据定义，两个随机选出的人在脑皮层的灰质分布上是不会有关联的。这是两个有一半相同基因的人——异卵双胞胎的结果。你可以看到，大脑的许多部分不是紫色的，说明如果一个人在那个区域的脑皮层较厚，那他的异卵双胞胎也一样。这是一对DNA完全相同的人即克隆或者同卵双胞胎的结果。你能看到皮层的大片大片区域中的灰质分布都显著相关。
en:Also, genetics and neuroscienceare increasingly showing that the brainis intricately structured.This is a recent study by the neurobiologist Paul Thompsonand his colleagues in which they —using MRI —measured the distribution of gray matter —that is, the outer layer of the cortex —in a large sample of pairs of people.They coded correlations in the thicknessof gray matter in different parts of the brainusing a false color scheme, in whichno difference is coded as purple,and any color other than purple indicatesa statistically significant correlation.Well, this is what happens when you pair people up at random.By definition, two people picked at randomcan&#39;t have correlations in the distributionof gray matter in the cortex.This is what happens in people who sharehalf of their DNA — fraternal twins.And as you can see, large amounts of the brainare not purple, showing that if one personhas a thicker bit of cortexin that region, so does his fraternal twin.And here&#39;s what happens if youget a pair of people who share all their DNA —namely, clones or identical twins.And you can see huge areas of cortex where there aremassive correlations in the distribution of gray matter.
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:其实，不止解剖结构上有差异，类似于你耳垂的形状，它们对思想和行为会产生重大影响，正如在Charles Addams的这幅著名的漫画中很好地展示得那样：“出生时分离，Mallifert双胞胎意外相遇。”你可以看到，两个发明家膝上有相同的玩意儿，他们在专利律师的休息室里相遇。其实，这幅漫画并没有很夸张，因为对出生时分离，成年时测试的同卵双胞胎的研究表明他们有惊人的相似性。并且每一对被研究的出生时分离的同卵双胞胎都是这样——但出生时分离的异卵双胞胎就远非如此。我偏爱的一个例子中有一对双胞胎，一个在德国的一个纳粹家庭里被养育成一个天主教徒，另一个在特立尼达的一个犹太家庭中长大。当他们走进明尼苏达的实验室时，他们都穿着相同的有肩章的海军蓝衬衫，他们都喜欢把奶油面包浸在咖啡里，他们都在手腕上戴着橡皮筋，他们都要在使用抽水马桶的前后各冲一次水，他们都喜欢在拥挤的电梯里打喷嚏来吓人一跳。好了——这个故事看似异想天开，但当你进行各种心理测试时，你会得到相同的结果——那就是，出生时失散的同卵双胞胎显示出相当惊人的相似之处。
en:Now, these aren&#39;t justdifferences in anatomy,like the shape of your ear lobes,but they have consequences in thought and behaviorthat are well illustrated in this famous cartoon by Charles Addams:&quot;Separated at birth, the Mallifert twins meet accidentally.&quot;As you can see, there are two inventorswith identical contraptions in their lap, meetingin the waiting room of a patent attorney.Now, the cartoon is not such an exaggeration, becausestudies of identical twins who were separated at birthand then tested in adulthoodshow that they have astonishing similarities.And this happens in every pair of identical twinsseparated at birth ever studied —but much less so with fraternal twins separated at birth.My favorite example is a pair of twins,one of whom was brought upas a Catholic in a Nazi family in Germany,the other brought up in a Jewish family in Trinidad.When they walked into the lab in Minnesota,they were wearing identical navy blue shirts with epaulettes;both of them liked to dip buttered toast in coffee,both of them kept rubber bands around their wrists,both of them flushed the toilet before using it as well as after,and both of them liked to surprise peopleby sneezing in crowded elevators to watch them jump.Now —the story might seem to good to be true,but when you administerbatteries of psychological tests,you get the same results — namely,identical twins separated at birth showquite astonishing similarities.
时间： 5:38
zh-cn:好了，既然常识和科学数据都质疑白板的教条，为何它会是个那么有吸引力的主张？好吧，人们之所以觉得它合意，其中有几个政治原因。最根本的是，如果我们是空白的石板，那么根据定义，我们就是平等的，因为零等于零等于零等于零。但如果白板上写了东西，那么有些人的就可能比别人写得多，根据这种思路，就会证明歧视和不平等是有理的。
en:Now, given both the common senseand scientific datacalling the doctrine of the blank slate into question,why should it have been such an appealing notion?Well, there are a number of political reasons why people have found it congenial.The foremost is that if we&#39;re blank slates,then, by definition, we are equal,because zero equals zero equals zero.But if something is written on the slate,then some people could have more of it than others,and according to this line of thinking, that would justifydiscrimination and inequality.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:另一种对于人性的政治担忧是，如果我们是空白的石板，我们就能使人类完美——通过社会工程来使我们的物种臻于完美的古老梦想。而如果我们有某些与生俱来的本能，那么也许其中有些会把我们驱入自私，偏见和暴力。好了，在书中，我主张这些其实都是不当结论。长话短说吧：首先，公平的概念跟相同的概念是不同的。因此，当托马斯·杰斐逊在独立宣言中写道，“我们认为这些真理是不言自明的：所有人生而平等，”他的意思并不是“我们认为这些真理是不言自明的：所有人都是克隆体。”而是所有人在权利方面是平等的，每个人应当被作为个人来对待，而不是根据他们所属的特定群体的统计数据来做预判。此外，即使我们生来有某些卑劣的动机，它们并不会自动导致卑劣的行为。这是因为人的头脑是一个有许多组成部分的复杂系统，其中有些可以抑制其他部分。例如，我们有很好的理由相信几乎所有人生而具有道德感，并且我们有从历史的经验教训中获益的认知能力。因此，即使人们对自私或贪婪有冲动，那也不是头颅中仅有的东西，头脑中还有其他部分可以抵消它们。
en:Another political fear of human natureis that if we are blank slates,we can perfect mankind —the age-old dream of the perfectibility of our speciesthrough social engineering.Whereas, if we&#39;re born with certain instincts,then perhaps some of them might condemn usto selfishness, prejudice and violence.Well, in the book, I argue that these are, in fact, non sequiturs.And just to make a long story short:first of all, the concept of fairnessis not the same as the concept of sameness.And so when Thomas Jefferson wrotein the Declaration of Independence,&quot;We hold these truths to be self-evident,that all men are created equal,&quot;he did not mean &quot;We hold these truths to be self-evident,that all men are clones.&quot;Rather, that all men are equal in terms of their rights,and that every person ought to be treatedas an individual, and not prejudgedby the statistics of particular groupsthat they may belong to.Also, even if we were bornwith certain ignoble motives,they don&#39;t automatically lead to ignoble behavior.That is because the human mindis a complex system with many parts,and some of them can inhibit others.For example, there&#39;s excellent reason to believethat virtually all humans are born with a moral sense,and that we have cognitive abilities that allow usto profit from the lessons of history.So even if people did have impulsestowards selfishness or greed,that&#39;s not the only thing in the skull,and there are other parts of the mind that can counteract them.
时间： 7:40
zh-cn:在书中，我审视了诸如此类的争论，以及其他一些敏感问题，敏感区域，切尔诺贝利，第三条轨道等等，包括艺术，克隆，犯罪，自由意志，教育，进化，性别差异，上帝，同性恋，杀婴，不平等，马克思主义，道德，纳粹主义，养育子女，政治，种族，宗教，资源枯竭，社会工程，技术风险和战争。不用说，讨论这些主题是有一定风险的。当我写了书的初稿时，我分发给一些同事征求意见，这里是我得到的一些反应：“最好给你的房子装个保安摄像头。”“你别指望还能得到什么奖项、工作机会或在学术社团里的位置。”“告诉你的出版商别在你的个人小传里列出你的家乡。”“你有终身教职了吗？”(笑声)
en:In the book, Igo over controversies such as this one,and a number of other hot buttons,hot zones, Chernobyls, third rails, and so on —including the arts, cloning, crime,free will, education, evolution,gender differences, God, homosexuality,infanticide, inequality, Marxism, morality,Nazism, parenting, politics,race, rape, religion, resource depletion,social engineering, technological risk and war.And needless to say, there were certain risksin taking on these subjects.When I wrote a first draft of the book,I circulated it to a number of colleagues for comments,and here are some ofthe reactions that I got:&quot;Better get a security camera for your house.&quot;&quot;Don&#39;t expect to get any more awards, job offersor positions in scholarly societies.&quot;&quot;Tell your publisher not to list your hometownin your author bio.&quot;&quot;Do you have tenure?&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:唔，这本书在10月份出版了，还没有发生什么可怕的事。我——我喜欢——的确有理由紧张，在某些时刻我确实也感到紧张了，因为我知道那些在行为科学中持争议立场或有令人不安的发现的人的下场的历史。有很多这样的事例，有些我在书中谈到了，关于人们因为偶然发现或者争论有争议的发现，而被诽谤，被称为纳粹，殴打，胁以刑事起诉。你永远不知道你何时会踏入这样的一个陷阱。我最喜欢的例子是两个研究左撇子的心理学家，他们发表了一些数据，表明平均而言，左撇子更容易受到疾病的侵害，更容易发生意外，寿命也更短。顺便说一句，从那以后还不清楚这是否是准确的概括，但当时的数据似乎支持这个说法。好了，他们很快受到了猛烈攻击包括愤怒的信件，死亡威胁，禁止在一些科学期刊上讨论这个主题，来自愤怒的左撇子和他们的拥护者，他们简直不敢拆开信件，由于他们无意中激起的怨恨和谩骂。
en:Well, the book came out in October,and nothing terrible has happened.I — I like —There was indeed reason to be nervous,and there were moments in which I did feel nervous,knowing the historyof what has happened to peoplewho&#39;ve taken controversial standsor discovered disquieting findingsin the behavioral sciences.There are many cases, some of which I talk about in the book,of people who have been slandered, called Nazis,physically assaulted, threatened with criminal prosecutionfor stumbling across or arguingabout controversial findings.And you never know when you&#39;re going tocome across one of these booby traps.My favorite example is a pair of psychologistswho did research on left-handers,and published some data showing that left-handers are, on average,more susceptible to disease, more prone to accidentsand have a shorter lifespan.It&#39;s not clear, by the way, since then,whether that is an accurate generalization,but the data at the time seemed to support that.Well, pretty soon they were barragedwith enraged letters,death threats,ban on the topic in a number of scientific journals,coming from irate left-handersand their advocates,and they were literally afraid to open their mailbecause of the venom and vituperationthat they had inadvertently inspired.
时间：10:12
zh-cn:嗯，黑夜未央，但这本书已经出版半年了，并没有发生什么可怕的事。那些可怕的职业后果一个都没发生——我还没被驱逐出剑桥市。但我想谈的是在《空白的石板》收到的80多篇评论里，激起了最强烈的反应的敏感问题中的两个。我只把这个列表放上几秒钟，看看你们能否猜出是哪两个——我估计这些主题中的两个引起了各种评论和电台采访中百分之九十的反应。不是暴力和战争，不是种族，不是性别，不是马克思主义，也不是纳粹主义。它们是：艺术和养育子女。（笑声）那么让我来告诉你们是什么引起了这些愤怒的反应，我会让你们决定——这些论点是否真的那么离谱。
en:Well,the night is young, but the book has been outfor half a year,and nothing terrible has happened.None of the dire professional consequenceshas taken place —I haven&#39;t beenexiled from the city of Cambridge.But what I wanted to talk aboutare two of these hot buttonsthat have aroused the strongest responsein the 80-odd reviewsthat The Blank Slate has received.I&#39;ll just put that list up for a few seconds,and see if you can guess which two— I would estimate that probably two of these topicsinspired probably 90 percentof the reaction in the various reviewsand radio interviews.It&#39;s not violence and war,it&#39;s not race, it&#39;s not gender,it&#39;s not Marxism, it&#39;s not Nazism.They are: the arts and parenting.(Laughter)So let me tell you whataroused such irate responses,and I&#39;ll let you decide if whether they —the claims are really that outrageous.
时间：11:19
zh-cn:让我先从艺术开始。我注意到我在几张幻灯片前提出的人类共性的列表中的其中一项就是艺术。在已发现的所有社会里，即使在世界最偏远的角落，没有一个没有一些我们会认为是艺术的东西。视觉艺术——物体表面和身体的装饰——似乎是一个人类的共性。讲故事，音乐，舞蹈，诗歌在所有文化中被发现，以及许多在艺术中给我们愉悦的主旨和主题能在所有人类社会中被找到：对于对称形式的偏好，对重复和变异的使用，甚至具体到这样一个事实：世界各地的诗歌每句句子都非常接近3秒钟长，由停顿隔开。而在另一方面，在20世纪下半叶，艺术常被说成是在衰败。我从格调高雅的杂志上收集了大概10到15条头条，哀叹我们时代的艺术在衰败这一事实。我给你们一些代表性的引述：“我们可以有信心地断言，我们的时代是个衰败的时代，文化的标准比50年前要低，这一衰败的证据在人类活动的方方面面都显而易见。”这是50多年前艾略特的一段话。近一点的一条：“在我们这个时代保持高雅文化的可能性已经越来越成问题。严肃的书店正在失去他们的专营权，非盈利性剧院主要依靠把他们的轮演剧目商业化来生存，交响乐团在稀释他们的节目单，公共电视台越来越依赖于英国情景喜剧的重播，古典电台在减少，博物馆诉诸于轰动性展览，舞蹈在死亡。“这是著名的戏剧评论家和导演Robert Brustein大约5年前写在《新共和国》杂志里的一段话。
en:Let me start with the arts.I note that among the long list of human universalsthat I presented a few slides agoare art.There is no society ever discoveredin the remotest corner of the world that has not had somethingthat we would consider the arts.Visual arts — decoration of surfaces and bodies —appears to be a human universal.The telling of stories, music,dance, poetry — found in all cultures,and many of the motifs and themesthatgive us pleasure in the artscan be found in all human societies:a preference for symmetrical forms,the use of repetition and variation,even things as specific as the factthat in poetry all over the world,you have lines that are very closeto three seconds long, separated by pauses.Now, on the other hand,in the second half of the 20th century,the arts are frequently said to be in decline.And I have a collection,probably 10 or 15 headlines, from highbrow magazinesdeploring the fact thatthe arts are in decline in our time.I&#39;ll give you a couple of representative quotes:&quot;We can assert with some confidence that our own period isone of decline, that the standards of culture are lowerthan they were 50 years ago, and that the evidences of this declineare visible in every department of human activity.&quot;That&#39;s a quote from T. S. Eliot, a little more than 50 years ago.And a more recent one:&quot;The possibility of sustaining high culture in our timeis becoming increasing problematical.Serious book stores are losing their franchise,nonprofit theaters are surviving primarilyby commercializing their repertory,symphony orchestras are diluting their programs,public television is increasing its dependenceon reruns of British sitcoms,classical radio stations are dwindling,museums are resorting to blockbuster shows, dance is dying.&quot;That&#39;s from Robert Brustein,the famous drama critic and director,in The New Republic about five years ago.
时间：13:21
zh-cn:好了，事实上，艺术并没有衰败。我不认为这间房子里的任何人会感到惊讶，但以任何标准衡量，它们从没有更大规模地蓬勃发展。当然有些全新的艺术形式和新媒体，其中许多你们在这几天里都听说了。按任何经济标准，对所有形式的艺术的需求正在飞涨，从歌剧票价，图书销售量，出版的图书数量，发行的音乐剧数量，以及新专辑的数量等等都能看得出来。有关艺术在衰败这句抱怨的唯一一点儿真实性来自于三个方面。其中之一是来自于20世纪30年代以来的精英艺术——比如，著名的交响乐团演出的那些作品，他们的大部分保留剧目出自1930年之前，或是著名的画廊和博物馆展出的那些作品。还有来自于文学批评和分析，大概在40年或50年前，文学评论家有点像是文化英雄，现在他们有点像是全国性玩笑。还有大学中的人文和艺术课程按很多衡量标准，都确实在下降。学生们纷纷敬而远之，大学则从艺术和人文领域和人文领域撤资。
en:Well, in fact, the arts are not in decline.I don&#39;t think this will as a surprise to anyone in this room,but by any standardthey have never been flourishingto a greater extent.There are, of course, entirely new art formsand new media, many of which you&#39;ve heardover these few days.By any economic standard,the demand for art of all formsis skyrocketing,as you can tell from the price of opera tickets,by the number of books sold,by the number of books published,the number of musical titles released,the number of new albums and so on.The only grain of truth to thiscomplaint that the arts are in declinecome from three spheres.One of them is in elite art since the 1930s —say, the kinds of works performedby major symphony orchestras,where most of the repertory is before 1930,or the works shown inmajor galleries and prestigious museums.In literary criticism and analysis,probably 40 or 50 years ago,literary critics were a kind of cultural hero;now they&#39;re kind of a national joke.And the humanities and arts programsin the universities, which by many measures,indeed are in decline.Students are staying away in droves,universities are disinvestingin the arts and humanities.
时间：14:47
zh-cn:好了，这儿有个诊断。他们没有要求我，但是他们自己也承认，他们需要他们可以得到的所有帮助。我想指出，精英艺术和批评的被信以为真的衰败，与对人性的普遍否认，在历史上的同一点发生，这并不是一个巧合。如果你上网搜索，就能在大量的英语教学大纲里找到这样一句名言－“大约在1910年12月，人性改变了。”这是弗吉尼亚·沃尔夫的一句引言的另述，而对她到底是什么意思还有一些争论。但是看这些教学大纲是很清楚的，——现在它被用来表示，存在了几百、几千年的所有艺术欣赏形式，在20世纪时被抛弃了。艺术中的美与乐——可能是一种人类共性——开始被认为是甜稠的、媚俗的、商业的。巴内特·纽曼有一句名言，现代艺术的冲动是想要毁灭美，它被认为是资产阶级的或是俗气的。这里有个例子。我的意思是，这也许是对15世纪女性形态的视觉描绘的典型示例；而这里是对20世纪女性形态的描绘的典型示例。如你所见，精英艺术迎合感官的方式已经改变了。
en:Well, here&#39;s a diagnosis.They didn&#39;t ask me, but by their own admission,they need all the help that they can get.And I would like to suggest that it&#39;s not a coincidencethat this supposed declinein the elite arts and criticismoccurred in the same point in history in whichthere was a widespread denial of human nature.A famous quotation can be found —if you look on the web, you can find it inliterally scoresof English core syllabuses —&quot;In or about December 1910,human nature changed.&quot;A paraphrase of a quote by Virginia Woolf,and there&#39;s some debateas to what she actually meant by that.But it&#39;s very clear, looking at these syllabuses,that — it&#39;s used nowas a way of saying that all formsof appreciation of artthat were in place for centuries, or millennia,in the 20th century were discarded.The beauty and pleasure in art —probably a human universal —were — began to be considered saccharine,or kitsch, or commercial.Barnett Newman had a famous quote that &quot;the impulse of modern artis the desire to destroy beauty&quot; —which was considered bourgeois or tacky.And here&#39;s just one example.I mean, this is perhaps a representative exampleof the visual depiction of the female formin the 15th century;here is a representative exampleof the depiction of the female form in the 20th century.And, as you can see, there — something has changedin the way the elite artsappeal to the senses.
时间：16:25
zh-cn:确实，在现代主义和后现代主义运动里，有着无美感的视觉艺术，没有叙述和情节的文学，没有韵律的诗歌，没有装饰、人性化、绿色空间和自然光的建筑和规划，没有旋律和节奏的音乐，不明晰、不注意美学、对人类处境毫无洞察的批评。（笑声）让我举一个例子来支持最后一个说法。我们时代最著名的文学英语学者之一是伯克利的教授朱迪思·巴特勒。这里她的分析的一个例子：“从资本被认为以一种同权力关系注定重复、合流、重新表达的霸权比较类似的方式构建社会关系的结构主义诠释的转出，将临时性的问题带到了对结构的思考中，并标志着从把结构整体性作为理论对象的阿尔都塞理论的形式的转变……“好了，你明白我的意思了。顺便说一下，这只是一句句子——你其实可以解析它。唔，在《空白的石板》中的论点是，精英艺术与20世纪的批评，而不是总体上的艺术，鄙弃了美丽、快乐、清晰、洞察和风格。人们正在远离精英艺术和批评。多么让人困惑——这到底是为什么呢？唔，结果这变成了书中可能最有争议的论点。有人问我，我是不是为了转移来自性别、纳粹主义和种族等的讨论中的愤怒，才把它插进来。对此我无可奉告。但它肯定激起了许多大学教授的热烈反应。
en:Indeed, in movements of modernismand post-modernism,there was visual art without beauty,literature without narrative and plot,poetry without meter and rhyme,architecture and planning without ornament,human scale, green space and natural light,music without melody and rhythm,and criticism without clarity,attention to aesthetics and insight into the human condition.(Laughter)Let me give just you an example to back up that last statement.But here, there — one of the most famous literaryEnglish scholars of our timeis the Berkeley professor,Judith Butler.And here is an example ofone of her analyses:&quot;The move from a structuralist account in which capitalis understood to structure social relationsin relatively homologous waysto a view of hegemony in which power relations are subject to repetition,convergence and rearticulationbrought the question of temporality into the thinking of structure,and marked a shift from the form of Althusserian theorythat takes structural totalities as theoretical objects ...&quot;Well, you get the idea.By the way, this is one sentence —you can actually parse it.Well, the argument in &quot;The Blank Slate&quot;was that elite art and criticismin the 20th century,although not the arts in general,have disdained beauty, pleasure,clarity, insight and style.People are staying away from elite art and criticism.What a puzzle — I wonder why.Well, this turned out to be probablythe most controversial claim in the book.Someone asked me whether I stuck it inin order to deflect irefrom discussions of gender and Nazismand race and so on. I won&#39;t comment on that.But it certainly inspiredan energetic reactionfrom many university professors.
时间：18:18
zh-cn:好了，另一个敏感问题是养育子女。该讨论的出发点是——我们都经常收到来自于养育子女产业联合体的建议。唔，这儿有一条来自一位倍感烦恼的母亲的代表性语录：“我被抚养子女的意见所淹没。我应该跟我的孩子做很多身体活动，来给他们灌输一个身体健康的习惯，这样他们就会成长为健康的成年人。我应该做各种智力游戏，这样他们就会成长为聪明的人。还有各种各样的游戏——玩黏土以锻炼手指灵活性，玩文字游戏以达到阅读成功，大幅度运动游戏，小幅度运动游戏。我觉得我可以为了搞清楚要跟孩子玩什么而献出我的生活。”我想最近为人父母者都能与这位母亲产生共鸣。
en:Well, the other hot button is parenting.And the starting point is the — for that discussionwas the fact that we have allbeen subject to the adviceof the parenting industrial complex.Now, here is — here is arepresentative quote from a besieged mother:&quot;I&#39;m overwhelmed with parenting advice.I&#39;m supposed to do lots of physical activity with my kidsso I can instill in them a physical fitness habitso they&#39;ll grow up to be healthy adults.And I&#39;m supposed to do all kinds of intellectual playso they&#39;ll grow up smart.And there are all kinds of play — clay for finger dexterity,word games for reading success, large motor play,small motor play. I feel like I could devote my lifeto figuring out what to play with my kids.&quot;I think anyone who&#39;s recently been a parent can sympathizewith this mother.
时间：19:05
zh-cn:唔，这里有些发人深省的关于养育子女的事实。这条建议所基于的关于养育子女的研究中的大部分都是毫无用处的。它们没用是因为它们没有控制遗传性。它们衡量了父母做什么与子女变得如何之间的一些相关性，并假定一个因果关系：即父母的养育塑造了子女。父母对孩子说得很多，孩子长大就能说会道，父母打孩子，孩子长大就很暴力，诸如此类。其中很少控制了父母遗传给孩子增加其善言或暴力概率的基因的可能性。在这些研究在提供环境而非基因的被收养的孩子的身上重做之前，我们无法知道这些结论是否有效。
en:Well, here&#39;s some sobering facts about parenting.Most studies of parenting on which this advice is basedare useless. They&#39;re useless because they don&#39;t controlfor heritability. They measure some correlationbetween what the parents do, how the children turn outand assume a causal relation:that the parenting shaped the child.Parents who talk a lot to their kidshave kids who grow up to be articulate,parents who spank their kids have kids who grow upto be violent and so on.And very few of them control for the possibilitythat parents pass on genes for —that increase the chances a child will be articulateor violent and so on.Until the studies are redone with adoptive children,who provide an environmentbut not genes to their kids,we have no way of knowing whether these conclusions are valid.
时间：19:53
zh-cn:控制了遗传性的研究有一些发人深省的结果。还记得Mallifert双胞胎吧：出生时失散，他们在专利局相遇——两人非常相似。唔，要是Mallifert双胞胎一起长大会怎么样呢？你可能会想，他们会更相似，因为他们不仅共享了基因，也共享了环境。这将会使他们超级相似，对吗？错了。在出生时失散的同卵双胞胎或任何兄弟姐妹，即使一起长大，也不会更加相似。在一个特定家庭里这么多年发生在你身上的所有事，似乎都没在你的个性或智力上留下任何永久的印记。采用完全不同的方法找到的补充性发现，显示了与同卵双胞胎相对的被收养的兄弟姐妹，他们共享了父母、家庭、邻里，但没共享基因——结果成长为了毫不相似的人。好了，两个不同的研究体获得了相似的发现。
en:The genetically controlled studieshave some sobering results.Remember the Mallifert twins:separated at birth, then they meet in the patent office —remarkably similar.Well, what would have happened if the Mallifert twins had grown up together?You might think, well, then they&#39;d be even more similar,because not only would they share their genes,but they would also share their environment.That would make them super-similar, right?Wrong. Identical twins, or any siblings,who are separated at birth are no less similarthan if they had grown up together.Everything that happens to you in a given homeover all of those yearsappears to leave no permanent stampon your personality or intellect.A complementary finding, from a completely different methodology,is that adopted siblings reared together —the mirror image of identical twins reared apart,they share their parents, their home,their neighborhood,don&#39;t share their genes — end up not similar at all.OK — two different bodies of research with a similar finding.
时间：20:54
zh-cn:这表示，长期来看孩子并不是由父母塑造的，而是部分地——仅仅是部分地——由基因塑造，部分由文化塑造——该国总体的文化，和孩子自己的文化，即他们的同伴——正如今天早些时候Jill Sobule所言，那才是孩子们关心的——并且，在很大程度上，超出大多数人愿意承认的程度，由偶然所塑造：在子宫中大脑连接时发生的偶然事件；你漫步人生中的偶然事件。
en:What it suggests is that children are shapednot by their parents over the long run,but in part — only in part — by their genes,in part by their culture —the culture of the country at largeand the children&#39;s own culture, namely their peer group —as we heard from Jill Sobule earlier today,that&#39;s what kids care about —and, to a very large extent, larger than most people are prepared to acknowledge,by chance: chance events in the wiring of the brain in utero;chance events as you live your life.
时间：21:24
zh-cn:那就让我用一句话来回到选择的主题以作为结尾。我认为，人性的科学——行为遗传学，进化心理学，神经科学，认知科学——将在未来的岁月里，日益扰乱各种教条、事业和深入人心的政治信仰体系。这把一个选择放在了我们面前。这个选择是，关于人类的某些事实或议题，是否要被认为是禁忌、被禁止的知识，我们不该去探讨，因为毫无益处，或者我们是否应该诚实地探索它们。对这个问题，我有我自己的答案，来自于19世纪伟大的艺术家安东·契诃夫，他说道：“当你向一个人展示他是什么样的人时，他会变得更好。”我认为，这个论点没法说得更有力了。非常感谢。（掌声）
en:So let me concludewith just a remarkto bring it back to the theme of choices.I think that the sciences of human nature —behavioral genetics, evolutionary psychology,neuroscience, cognitive science —are going to, increasingly in the years to come,upset various dogmas,careers and deeply-held political belief systems.And that presents us with a choice.The choice is whether certain facts about humans,or topics, are to be considered taboos,forbidden knowledge, where we shouldn&#39;t go therebecause no good can come from it,or whether we should explore them honestly.I have my ownanswer to that question,which comes from a great artist of the 19th century,Anton Chekhov, who said,&quot;Man will become better when you show himwhat he is like.&quot;And I think that the argumentcan&#39;t be put any more eloquently than that.Thank you very much.(Applause)
