时间： 0:11
zh-cn:因为我等会谈论的议题的缘故我想我必须首先讲述一下我的绿色情结当我还是一个小男孩，我承诺作为一名美国人，要保护和忠实地捍卫我国的自然资源。这包括空气，土壤，矿物资源，森林，水资源和野生动物。我还坚持这一承诺。在斯坦福大学，我主修生态学和生物进化学。1968年我创办了《地球目录》 一段时间我成了 “环保先生”。
en:Because of what I&#39;m about to say,I really should establish my green credentials.When I was a small boy, I took my pledgeas an American, to save and faithfully defend from wastethe natural resources of my country,its air, soil and minerals, its forests, waters and wildlife.And I&#39;ve stuck to that.Stanford, I majored in ecology and evolution.1968, I put out the Whole Earth Catalog. Was &quot;mister natural&quot; for a while.
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:然后就职于杰里布朗政府。布朗政府期间，我和一些朋友们主要使加州能源效率平衡。因此到现在，30年后，尽管我们的人均经济提高了百分之八十。但我们加州比任何其他州排放越来越少的温室气体。在减少温室气体排放这点，加州基本上相当于欧洲。
en:And then worked for the Jerry Brown administration.The Brown administration, and a bunch of my friends,basically leveled the energy efficiency of California,so it&#39;s the same now, 30 years later,even though our economy has gone up 80 percent, per capita.And we are putting out less greenhouse gasses than any other state.California is basically the equivalent of Europe, in this.
时间： 0:58
zh-cn:今年，地球目录有一个补充，今天，我将其称为“地球规则”。现在主要人口事件是我们已经经历过的这种令人讶异的快速城市化进程。到本世纪中叶将有大约80%要城市化。而这主要是在发展中世界要发生的事情。有趣的是，在很大程度上城市的大小往往也决定了历史的发展现在最大的城市都在发展中国家他们的发展比发达国家的发展快3倍。规模是我们的9倍这是有质的不同。当我们回顾历史时，它们是历史转变的驱动力。
en:This year, Whole Earth Catalog has a supplement that I&#39;ll preview today,called Whole Earth Discipline.The dominant demographic event of our timeis this screamingly rapid urbanizationthat we have going on.By mid-century we&#39;ll be about 80 percent urban,and that&#39;s mostly in the developing world,where that&#39;s happening.It&#39;s interesting, because history is driven to a large degreeby the size of cities.The developing world now has all of the biggest cities,and they are developing three times faster than the developed countries,and nine times bigger.It&#39;s qualitatively different.They are the drivers of history, as we see by looking at history.
时间： 1:40
zh-cn:一千年前的世界是什么样子。那么，我们现在有一个城市发展分布类似于我们在1000年前城市分布。换言之，西方的崛起，尽管有如一出戏剧，但它已经结束了。总人口数有压倒性的优势。每星期130万人来到城镇，年复一年。到底是怎么回事？如今全球各地的村庄正变得荒芜起来农田没人管，因为人都迁移到了城市
en:1,000 years ago this is what the world looked like.Well we now have a distribution of urban powersimilar to what we had 1,000 years ago.In other words, the rise of the West,dramatic as it was, is over.The aggregate numbers are absolutely overwhelming:1.3 million people a week coming to town,decade after decade.What&#39;s really going on?Well, what&#39;s going on is the villages of the world are emptying out.Subsistence farming is drying up basically.
时间： 2:12
zh-cn:城市就是机会就这么简单我曾经有一个关于村庄很浪漫的看法，这是因为我从来没有在村庄居住过。（笑声）因为在城市 -这是熙熙攘攘的，寮屋搭建的基贝拉城它靠近内罗毕 -在城市，有活动，有机会。有现金经济交易，使得人们不愿回归到仅能维持生计的农业耕作上
en:People are following opportunity into town.And this is why.I used to have a very romantic idea about villages,and it&#39;s because I never lived in one.(Laughter)Because in town —this is the bustling squatter cityof Kibera, near Nairobi —they see action. They see opportunity.They see a cash economy that they were not able to participate inback in the subsistence farm.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:去到那些地方，你会发现很多美丽的景象还有很多事情发生。他们是穷人，但他们高度城市化，而且他们有很强的创造性。现在总人口数基本是住寮屋的人，他们中10亿人口正在建设他们的城市世界，也意味着他们正在建设新世界。那是一种人与人的连结，一个接一个，一个家庭接一个家庭，家族联系着家族，左邻右舍的。他们开始举步维艰，随着时间的推移，他们取得实质性进展。他们甚至建立起他们自己的基础设施。当然开始的时候是偷盗他们的基础设施，有线电视，水，整个范围，所有都被侵占，然后逐渐修复改善。
en:As you go around these places there&#39;s plenty of aesthetics.There is plenty going on.They are poor, but they are intensely urban. And they are intensely creative.The aggregate numbers noware that basically squatters,all one billion of them, are building the urban world,which means they&#39;re building the world —personally, one by one, family by family,clan by clan, neighborhood by neighborhood.They start flimsy and they get substantial as time goes by.They even build their own infrastructure.Well, steal their own infrastructure, at first.Cable TV, water, the whole gamut, all gets stolen.And then gradually gentrifies.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:贫民窟破坏繁荣，情况实际不是这样。贫民窟的工作反而帮助创造繁荣。孟买，这个城市有一半的城市贫民区，但那里却创造了印度国内生产总值的六分之一。贫民窟的社会资本是高度城市化和最密集的。贫民窟里的人作为一个整体是最有价值的这也正是他们的组织形式
en:It is not the case that slums undermine prosperity,not the working slums; they help create prosperity.So in a town like Mumbai, which is half slums,it&#39;s 1/6th of the GDP of India.Social capital in the slums is at its most urban and dense.These people are valuable as a group.And that&#39;s how they work.
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:谈及贫民窟，很多人会想到“哦，那里太糟糕了。我们必须解决他们的住房问题。”还有“哦，我们得让他们有电话服务。”现在，他们向我们展示他们是如何做电话服务的。现在饥荒大多是农村的事情。贫民窟的居民关心的是这些事情。而这正是我们可以帮助的方面。政府也可以提供帮助。这样互相帮助，就可以解决类似问题。
en:There is a lot of people who think about all these poor people,&quot;Oh there&#39;s terrible things. We&#39;ve got to fix their housing.&quot;It used to be, &quot;Oh we&#39;ve got to get them phone service.&quot;Now they&#39;re showing us how they do their phone service.Famine mostly is a rural event now.There are things they care about.And this is where we can help.And the nations they&#39;re in can help.And they are helping each other solve these issues.
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:你去一个像孟买这样的密集贫民区。你看关于右边的道路。你会问：“那会发生什么？”答案是，“一切都在发生。”这比一个商场好得多。它的密度大的多。它更互动。规模惊人。关键是，人们不是被贫困折磨，而是人们忙于拼命要摆脱贫困尽他们所能，越快越好。他们互相帮助做到这一点。他们通过非法去做的事情，称为非正规经济。非正规经济，它好比在天体物理学里的暗能量。这本不应该有的，但它是巨大的。我们还不明白它是如何运作的。但我们必须理解。
en:And you go to a nice dense place like this slum in Mumbai.You look at that lane on the right.And you can ask, &quot;Okay what&#39;s going on there?&quot;The answer is, &quot;Everything.&quot;This is better than a mall. It&#39;s much denser.It&#39;s much more interactive.And the scale is terrific.The main event is, these are not people crushed by poverty.These are people busy getting out of povertyjust as fast as they can.They&#39;re helping each other do it.They&#39;re doing it through an outlaw thing,the informal economy.The informal economy, it&#39;s sort of like dark energy in astrophysics:it&#39;s not supposed to be there, but it&#39;s huge.We don&#39;t understand how it works yet, but we have to.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:此外，非正规经济，或称灰色经济里头的人久而久之，也有可能走向犯罪。要么加入黑社会要么进入正常的法治社会我们应该可以帮助他们使得她们更容易走进法治社会因为如果我们不这样做，他们将成为黑社会的一员这会有多种活动影响。
en:Furthermore, people in the informal economy,the gray economy —as time goes by,crime is happening around them. And they can join the criminal world,or they can join the legitimate world.We should be able to make that choiceeasier for them to get toward the legitimate world,because if we don&#39;t, they will go toward the criminal world.There&#39;s all kinds of activity.
时间： 5:09
zh-cn:在达拉维贫民窟不仅有很多为自己的服务，还为整个城市提供服务。主要活动之一是这些特设学校。家长集合钱去聘请一些地方教师到一所小的，私人的，非官方学校教书。在城市，教育是更有可能的，并改变了世界。所以你看到一些有趣的，典型的，城市的东西。
en:In Dharavi the slum performs not onlya lot of services for itself,but it performs services for the city at large.And one of the main events are these ad-hoc schools.Parents pool their money to hire some local teachersto a private, tiny, unofficial school.Education is more possible in the cities, and that changes the world.So you see some interesting, typical, urban things.
时间： 5:33
zh-cn:贫民窟和富人区分别开来，例如在圣保罗这里。这就是城市所创造的价值，有机地融合起来。在这种情况下，供应需求紧密相连。就如，在这个城市左边，有着活生生的生活。这里生活的女佣、园丁和警卫人员步行到一个枯燥，富有的邻居家工作。
en:So one thing slammed up against another,such as in Sao Paulo here.That&#39;s what cities do. That&#39;s how they create value,is by slamming things together.In this case, supply right next to demand.So the maids and the gardeners and the guardsthat live in this lively part of town on the leftwalk to work, in the boring, rich neighborhood.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:邻近性是惊人的。我们正在研究这密集邻近性。城市和国家之间的邻近连接，会使国家变好趋于完善。因为城市有很多有趣方法。这可以使城市—（鼓掌）这可以使发展中世界的城市变得更加绿色环保。
en:Proximity is amazing.We are learning about how dense proximity can be.Connectivity between the city and the countryis what&#39;s going to keep the country good,because the city has interesting ways of doing things.This is what makes cities —(Applause)this is what makes cities so green in the developing world.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:因为人们要摆脱贫困陷阱，一个赖以生存的农业生态灾难而奔往城市。而当他们离开农村后，自然环境开始很快恢复。而那些留在乡村的人则可以种植经济作物并且将粮食卖到城市里去所以，如果你想保留一个村庄，你得有良好的道路，或有好的手机连接信号。最好配有一些电网电力。
en:Because people leave the poverty trap, an ecological disasterof subsistence farms, and head to town.And when they&#39;re gone the natural environmentstarts to come back very rapidly.And those who remain in the village can shift over to cash cropsto send food to the new growing markets in town.So if you want to save a village, you do it with a good road,or with a good cell phone connection, and ideally some grid electrical power.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:我们都在地球城市生活。这情况转变已超过一半城市化。这些数字是相当大的。 现在10亿人生活在城市的寮屋。未来还将有10亿人要搬到城市这超过六分之一的人们以他们的方式生活着。这将影响很大。
en:So the event is: we&#39;re a city planet. That just happened.More than half.The numbers are considerable. A billion live in the squatter cities now.Another billion is expected.That&#39;s more than a sixth of humanity living a certain way.And that will determine a lot of how we function.
时间： 7:20
zh-cn:现在，对于我们这些环保主义者来说，也许城市最环保的一点就是城市使得人口炸弹延迟引爆人们进入城市。马上就想到不去生那么多孩子。他们甚至还没有富起来。要在城市求得生存就意味着少生优生出生率于是急剧下降
en:Now, for us environmentalists,maybe the greenest thing about the cities is they diffuse the population bomb.People get into town.The immediately have fewer children.They don&#39;t even have to get rich yet. Just the opportunity ofcoming up in the world means they will have fewer, higher-quality kids,and the birthrate goes down radically.
时间： 7:39
zh-cn:还有其他有趣的副作用在发生这是菲利普朗曼的一个幻灯片，显示正在发生的事情。当我们有越来越多的老人和我一样，越来越少的孩子出生。它们是区域分开的。你会看到在北半球，都是些老人、老城市在按照传统的方式来生活而在发展中世界的新兴城市，年轻人们在创新，做些新鲜事情。你认为这些转变将在哪发生？
en:Very interesting side effect here,here&#39;s a slide from Phillip Longman.Shows what is happening.As we have more and more old people, like me,and fewer and fewer babies.And they are regionally separated.What you&#39;re getting is a world which isold folks, and old cities, going around doing things the old way,in the north.And young people in brand new cities they&#39;re inventing,doing new things, in the south.Where do you think the action is going to be?
时间： 8:09
zh-cn:我要转移话题了。简单谈谈气候。我很抱歉地说，气候的消息比我们想象的恶化得厉害，比我们所认为的变化快。气候是深刻复杂的，非线性系统，尽是失控的正反馈，隐藏的阈值和不可逆转的临界点。这有些例子。我们会很惊讶。几乎所有的惊讶都是坏消息。
en:Shift of subject. Quickly drop by climate.The climate news, I&#39;m sorry to say, is going to keep getting worsethan we think, faster than we think.Climate is a profoundly complex, nonlinear system,full of runaway positive feedbacks,hidden thresholds and irrevocable tipping points.Here&#39;s just a few samples.We&#39;re going to keep being surprised. And almost allthe surprises are going to be bad ones.
时间： 8:31
zh-cn:从政府的立场来考虑，这意味着在未来几十年气候移民将大幅增加随之而来的是资源的战争和因为缺水而引发的战争就如我们在达尔富尔所看到的。这就是干旱造成的战争。承载能力随之下降。没有足够的承载能力支持该国人民。然后人们就有麻烦了。
en:From your standpoint this meansa great increase in climate refugeesover the coming decades,and what goes along with that, which is resource warsand chaos wars,as we&#39;re seeing in Darfur.That&#39;s what drought does.It brings carrying capacity down,and there&#39;s not enough carrying capacityto support the people. And then you&#39;re in trouble.
时间： 8:59
zh-cn:好，我们再谈谈能源问题。基荷电力是使得一个城市或一个城市星球运转。到目前为止，只有三种基荷电力资源，煤炭来源，一些石油，核能和水力发电。其中，仅核能和水力发电是绿色环保的。煤炭是造成气候问题的原因。因为它是如此便宜，除非政府提高燃煤发电的价格否则每个人都会继续使用煤炭燃烧生电。风能和太阳能帮助不大，因为到目前为止，我们没有办法存储这些能量。
en:Shift to the power situation.Baseload electricity is what it takes to run a city,or a city planet.So far there is only three sources of baseload electricity:coal, some gas,nuclear and hydro.Of those, only nuclear and hydro are green.Coal is what is causing the climate problems.And everyone will keep burning itbecause it&#39;s so cheap, until governments make it expensive.Wind and solar can&#39;t help, because so far we don&#39;t have a way to store that energy.
时间： 9:32
zh-cn:于是水力发电不能成为主要考虑的途径用煤电就会破坏气候，或者核能，这是当前可操作的低碳源，或许可以拯救气候。如果我们最终可以很好的应用太阳能，这也可以帮助。请记住，这可以推动发展中世界的乡村和城市走向繁荣
en:So with hydro maxed out,coal and lose the climate,or nuclear, which is the current operating low-carbon source,and maybe save the climate.And if we can eventually get good solar in space,that also could help.Because remember, this is what drives the prosperity in the developing worldin the villages and in the cities.
时间： 9:56
zh-cn:那么，就煤炭和核能之间，比较它们的废弃物。如果你一直都使用核能发电，废弃物的数量加起来将等同于一罐可乐。而一个燃煤电厂，一个普通的，1千兆瓦的燃煤发电厂，每天燃烧80节煤炭轨道车。每节车厢有100吨。它向空气中排放1.8万吨二氧化碳。因此，当你就这些不同能源形式一生的排放量比较一下核电和太阳能和风能大致一样，核能还领先于太阳能。噢，对不起。还有水电能和风能，领先于太阳能。
en:So, between coal and nuclear,compare their waste products.If all of the electricity you used in your lifetime was nuclear,the amount of waste that would be added upwould fit in a Coke can.Whereas a coal-burning plant,a normal one gigawatt coal plant, burns 80 rail cars of coal a day,each car having 100 tons.And it puts 18 thousand tonsof carbon dioxide in the air.So and then when you compare the lifetime emissionsof these various energy forms,nuclear is about even with solar and wind,and ahead of solar —oh, I&#39;m sorry — with hydro and wind, and ahead of solar.
时间：10:35
zh-cn:核电能可以和煤电能竞争吗？仅问问澳大利亚的煤矿工人就知道了。这就是你们所看到的资源信息，而不是从我的环保同事，而是从那些感受到核电威胁的矿工那得知。那么好消息是，发展中世界，坦率地说，整个世界，是忙于建设，并开始建造核反应堆。这利于大气，也利于繁荣。
en:And does nuclear really compete with coal?Just ask the coal miners in Australia.That&#39;s where you see some of the source,not from my fellow environmentalists,but from people who feel threatened by nuclear power.Well the good news is thatthe developing world, but frankly, the whole world,is busy building, and starting to build, nuclear reactors.This is good for the atmosphere.It&#39;s good for their prosperity.
时间：10:58
zh-cn:我想指出一个有趣的事情，那就是环保人士喜欢称之为微型反应堆的东西。我不太确定，据说是当地太阳能和风能和热电联供发电之类的东西。但坦率地说现在刚开始有的微型反应堆可能被更好地应用。
en:I want to point out one interesting thing,which is that environmentalists like the thing we call micropower.It&#39;s supposed to be, I don&#39;t know, local solar and wind and cogeneration,and good things like that.But frankly micro-reactors which are just now coming on,might serve even better.
时间：11:12
zh-cn:在俄国北部，那里的冰融化，有了新通道俄罗斯人开始在那建设浮动核反应堆他们向发展中国家卖这些只有35兆瓦浮动核反应堆下面是东芝早期的设计。这个很有趣，比如，它采取了25兆瓦，2千5百万瓦特，拿它和一般威斯汀豪斯或Ariva派的标准大铁块反应堆比较一下它们通常是12亿到16亿瓦特这些就小得多，并且非常容易安装这是美国劳伦斯利弗莫尔实验室的设计。这还有美国洛斯阿拉莫斯国家实验室开始研制另一款设计，现在它已经商业化。
en:The Russians, who started this, are building floating reactors,for their new passage, where the ice is melting, north of Russia.And they&#39;re selling these floating reactors,only 35 megawatts, to developing countries.Here&#39;s the design of an early one from Toshiba.It&#39;s interesting, say, to take a 25-megawatt,25 million watts,and you compare it to the standard big ironof an ordinary Westinghouse or Ariva,which is 1.2, 1.6 billion watts.These things are way smaller. They&#39;re much more adaptable.Here&#39;s an American design from Lawrence Livermore Lab.Here&#39;s another American design that came outof Los Alamos, and is now commercial.
时间：11:53
zh-cn:几乎所有这些不仅仅是小，并且可以避免核扩散的发生他们通常被埋在地下。创新发展非常迅速。所以我认为在未来微反应堆变得重要。在核扩散方面，核能发电事实上有助于核武器的消解其他办法都比不上这个这就是在这个会议室有百分之十甚至百分之二十的电力可能是核电。其中一半是来自俄罗斯拆除的核弹头。不久也会有我们拆除的核弹头。我想看到布什政府积极推进的全球核能源合作计划能够继续推进我也很高兴看到奥巴马总统前几周在布拉格讲到他支持核燃料银行的战略
en:Almost all of these are not only small, they are proliferation-proof.They&#39;re typically buried in the ground.And the innovation is moving very rapidly.So I think microreactors is going to be important for the future.In terms of proliferation,nuclear energy has done moreto dismantle nuclear weapons than any other activity.And that&#39;s why 10 percent of the electricity in this room,20 percent of electricityin this room is probably nuclear.Half of that is coming from dismantled warheads from Russia,soon to be joined by our dismantled warheads.And so I would like to see the GNEP program,that was developed in the Bush administration, go forward aggressively.And I was glad to see that president Obamasupported the nuclear fuel bank strategywhen he spoke in Prague the other week.
时间：12:38
zh-cn:再说另一个话题，就是转基因食品作为一个生物学家，以我的观点，转基因食品作物不会引起争议。我的环保同行在这个问题上，变得非理性，反科学的，那是十分有害的尽管他们尽了最大努力，转基因农作物是历史上最迅速发展成功的农业创新。他们有利于环境的保护，因为它们免去了翻土的耕作使得土壤年复一年变得更加肥沃。也不断减少二氧化碳从土壤中排放到大气。它们减少了农药的使用，还增加产量在面积比较小的土地上就收获很多的粮食。以致于让更多野外土地回归自然。
en:One more subject. Genetically engineered food crops,in my view, as a biologist,have no reason to be controversial.My fellow environmentalists, on this subject,have been irrational, anti-scientific, and very harmful.Despite their best efforts,genetically engineered crops are the mostrapidly successful agricultural innovation in history.They&#39;re good for the environment because they enable no-till farming,which leaves the soil in place,getting healthier from year to year —slso keeps less carbon dioxide going from the soilinto the atmosphere.They reduce pesticide use.And they increase yield, which allows you to have youragricultural area be smaller,and therefore more wild area is freed up.
时间：13:20
zh-cn:顺便说一下，2006年这张地图已经过时。但它显示受绿色和平组织和欧洲地球之友控制下的非洲。他们最终摆脱那些控制。最后，生物技术正快速在非洲发展。
en:By the way, this map from 2006is out of date because it shows Africastill under the thumb of Greenpeace,and Friends of the Earth from Europe,and they&#39;re finally getting out from under that.And biotech is moving rapidly in Africa, at last.
时间：13:34
zh-cn:这是一个道德问题。纳菲尔德生物伦理会议就这个问题详细讨论，并召开两次会议，并表示这是一个道德责任，并使转基因作物随时可应用。要讲到紧要事情，人工气候改造是一个禁忌话题特别是在政府内部但我知道就在几个星期前，美国国防高级研究规划局还为此开了一个会但地球工程是事关你的事情，不是今年，但很快就会发生。因为一些严峻的事实随之显现出来。这是其中的一个清单。
en:This is a moral issue.The Nuffield Council on Bioethicsmet on this issue twice in great detailand said it is a moral imperativeto make genetically engineered crops readily available.Speaking of imperatives, geoengineering is taboo now,especially in government circles,though I think there was a DARPA meeting on it a couple of weeks ago,but it will be on your plate —not this year but pretty soon,because some harsh realizations are coming along.This is a list of them.
时间：14:02
zh-cn:事实上所知的会越来越可怕。将有一系列事件，如前阵子发生35000人死于热浪又如袭击孟加拉国的龙卷风。还有因为争夺水源而引发的战争例如印度河水患。由于这些事件不断发生，我们可能会说，“好吧，我们到底能做些什么呢？”
en:Basically the news is going to keep getting more scary.There will be events,like 35,000 people dying of a heat wave,which happened a while back.Like cyclones coming up toward Bangladesh.Like wars over water,such as in the Indus.And as those events keep happeningwe&#39;re going to say, &quot;Okay, what can we do about that really?&quot;
时间：14:23
zh-cn:但这是地球工程的小问题。哪一个机构来做出决定工程师是谁？他们做什么？他们在哪做？因为不管这一气候改造工程结果如何我们每个人到都将深受其影响如果我们要完全将此作为禁忌话题的话人类文明也有可能走向灭亡但假如我们说，“好吧中国，你要是担心的话，你先行动。你们的地球工程有你们的方式。我们有我们自己的。这就好比两国间的战争行为。接下来是非常有趣的外交对话。但实际上要实现这样的工程比人们想象的要容易得多
en:But there&#39;s this little problem with geoengineering:what body is going to decidewho gets to engineer? How much they do? Where they do it?Because everybody is downstream,downwind of whatever is done.And if we just taboo it completelywe could lose civilization.But if we just say &quot;OK,China, you&#39;re worried, you go ahead.You geoengineer your way. We&#39;ll geoengineer our way.&quot;That would be considered an act of war by both nations.So this is very interesting diplomacy coming along.I should say, it is more practical than people think.
时间：15:02
zh-cn:气候学家很关注下面的例子。许多地球工程点子中的一个，1991年，皮纳图博火山喷发，所喷出的二氧化硫使得地球的温度降低了摄氏半度。第二年1992年，很多的冰才使北极熊幼仔丰产，它们取名皮纳图博北极熊宝宝。向平流层中排放二氧化硫每年将花费10亿美元成本相对于我们有关能源可能要做的所有事情，这真不算什么。
en:Here is an example that climatologists like a lot,one of the dozens of geoengineering ideas.This one came from the sulfur dioxidefrom Mount Pinatubo in 1991 —cooled the earth by half a degree.There was so much ice in 1992, the following year,that there was a bumper crop of polar bear cubswho were known as the Pinatubo cubs.To put sulfur dioxide in the stratospherewould cost on the order of a billion dollars a year.That&#39;s nothing, compared to all of the otherthings we may be trying to do about energy.
时间：15:33
zh-cn:另一个应用的例子计划是靠雾化海水使海洋云层反射更加活跃这将影响整个地球的反照率。因为它可以在许多很小的地方以很多不同方式发生一个好例子是仿照古代亚马逊印第安人通过热分解，不完全燃烧，植物废料使农业土壤更肥沃生物炭替代大量的碳从而改善土壤。
en:Just to run by another one:this is a plan to brighten the reflectance of ocean clouds,by atomizing seawater;that would brighten the albedo of the whole planet.A nice one, because it can happenlots of little ways in lots of little places,is by copying the ancient Amazon Indianswho made good agricultural soilby pyrolizing, smoldering, plant waste,and biochar fixes large quantities of carbonwhile it&#39;s improving the soil.
时间：16:00
zh-cn:这是我们的准则。诺贝尔奖得主气候学家保罗·克鲁岑把我们现今这个地质时代称为人类世也就是说现在人类活动正在改变着地球的面貌并且我们还将不得不继续完成这样的任务在《地球目录》的第一句话是“我们就像上帝一样，也许我们可以做好这个角色。”而《地球的法则》的第一句话是：“我们就是上帝，我们必须做好这个角色。”谢谢。（鼓掌）
en:So here is where we are.Nobel Prize-winning climatologist Paul Crutzencalls our geological era the Anthropocene,the human-dominated era. We are stuckwith its obligations.In the Whole Earth Catalog, my first words were,&quot;We are as Gods, and might as well get good at it.&quot;The first words of Whole Earth Disciplineare, &quot;We are as Gods, and have to get good at it.&quot;Thank you.(Applause)
