时间： 0:11
zh-cn:那么，我们开始了：一系列玩耍。
en:So, here we go: a flyby of play.
时间： 0:15
zh-cn:如果纽约时报在2月17号星期天的报纸上用封面故事报道玩耍，那一定是很严肃了。在这个底部，写到：&quot;这比性别还要深。真的，但是危险的乐趣。而且一大堆关于进化的想法。“不错，除了你是在看封面，什么被遗漏了？你看到任何成年人了吗？
en:It&#39;s got to be serious if the New York Timesputs a cover story of their February 17th Sunday magazine about play.At the bottom of this, it says, &quot;It&#39;s deeper than gender.Seriously, but dangerously fun.And a sandbox for new ideas about evolution.&quot;Not bad, except if you look at that cover, what&#39;s missing?You see any adults?
时间： 0:46
zh-cn:好吧，让我们回到15世纪。这是一个在欧洲的院子，共有124种不同的游戏。老少皆宜，单独玩的，和身体有关的，游戏，玩耍。好了，这里就是，我想这是描绘院子是怎么样的一幅典型图片。我想我们在我们的文化里漏掉了什么东西。
en:Well, lets go back to the 15th century.This is a courtyard in Europe,and a mixture of 124 different kinds of play.All ages, solo play, body play, games, taunting.And there it is. And I think this is a typical pictureof what it was like in a courtyard then.I think we may have lost something in our culture.
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:我要跟你们讲讲，什么是一个我认为有影响的事情。丘吉尔北部，马尼托巴省，在10月和11月，在哈得逊湾没有冰雪。你看到的这只1200磅的雄性北极熊是野生的而且十分饥饿。诺贝特乐斯，一个德国摄影家，在拍摄一系列这些被栓住的哈士奇。而走进这个画面的是一个雄性北极熊，带有掠食者的眼神。任何去过非洲，或被一个恶狗追过的人，都知道当你遇上这种眼神时，你就有麻烦了。但是就在这种掠食者的眼神旁边，这是的一个雌性哈士奇，做出了一个玩耍的姿势，摇着它的尾巴。然后一些不平常的事情发生了。一些定向的行为 — 一些是被遥控的，注定的以晚餐完结的事情 — 变了。然后这个北极熊站在哈士奇旁边。没有伸爪，没有露出獠牙。然后他们开始了一个惊人的芭蕾。
en:So I&#39;m gonna take you throughwhat I think is a remarkable sequence.North of Churchill, Manitoba, in October and November,there&#39;s no ice on Hudson Bay.And this polar bear that you see, this 1200-pound male,he&#39;s wild and fairly hungry.And Norbert Rosing, a German photographer,is there on scene, making a series of photos of these huskies, who are tethered.And from out of stage left comes this wild, male polar bear,with a predatory gaze.Any of you who&#39;ve been to Africa or had a junkyard dog come after you,there is a fixed kind of predatory gazethat you know you&#39;re in trouble.But on the other side of that predatory gazeis a female husky in a play bow, wagging her tail.And something very unusual happens.That fixed behavior — which is rigid and stereotypedand ends up with a meal — changes.And this polar bearstands over the husky,no claws extended, no fangs taking a look.And they begin an incredible ballet.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:一个玩耍的芭蕾。这是在自然里：一个食肉性的自然里一个会斗的你死我活的自然里。假如你仔细观察哈士奇是这样靠近北极熊的，看的再仔细一点，它们变换了状态。它们是在一个玩耍的状态里。而那个状态就允许了这两个生物去探索的可能。他们开始做了一些他们平常不会做的事情拜玩耍的信号所赐。这就是一个了不起的例子关于存在于我们之间一个自然力量可以被改写的例子。
en:A play ballet.This is in nature: it overrides a carnivorous natureand what otherwise would have been a short fight to the death.And if you&#39;ll begin to look closely at the husky that&#39;s bearing her throat to the polar bear,and look a little more closely, they&#39;re in an altered state.They&#39;re in a state of play.And it&#39;s that statethat allows these two creatures to explore the possible.They are beginning to do something that neither would have donewithout the play signals.And it is a marvelous exampleof how a differential in powercan be overridden by a process of nature that&#39;s within all of us.
时间： 3:22
zh-cn:现在讲讲我是这么参与进来的？乔提到我曾做过一些关于杀人犯的事情，是的，我做过。德州塔凶手开阔了我的眼界 —回想起来，当我们在学习他的悲剧屠杀案例中 —玩耍的重要性，在这个个体中，通过深入的学习，发现他的玩耍被严重的剥夺了。查尔斯惠特曼是他的名字在我们的委员会中，有很多科学家，确实感觉到在调查的最后发现玩耍的缺乏和对正常发育的压抑导致了他比他造成的悲剧更加易受伤害。而且这个结论是通过了一段时间的考验 —十分遗憾的，甚至通过了弗吉尼亚理工大学的考验。
en:Now how did I get involved in this?John mentioned that I&#39;ve done some work with murderers, and I have.The Texas Tower murderer opened my eyes,in retrospect, when we studied his tragic mass murder,to the importance of play,in that that individual, by deep study,was found to have severe play deprivation.Charles Whitman was his name.And our committee, which consisted of a lot of hard scientists,did feel at the end of that studythat the absence of play and a progressive suppression of developmentally normal playled him to be more vulnerable to the tragedy that he perpetrated.And that finding has stood the test of time —unfortunately even into more recent times, at Virginia Tech.
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:而且其他一些关于人口危机的学习让我感受到了玩耍的重要性，但是我不曾了解玩耍到底是什么。而且是在多年来研究了那么多历史上玩耍的例子后我开始了解到，我对玩耍没有一个全面的认识。而且我不认为我们所有人都对玩耍有一个全面的认识，任何层面上。但是，我想这的确有一些看待它的方法让你们可以看到它的所有的类别，一种思考它的方法。
en:And other studies of populations at risksensitized me to the importance of play,but I didn&#39;t really understand what it was.And it was many years in taking play histories of individualsbefore I really began to recognize that I didn&#39;t really have a full understanding of it.And I don&#39;t think any of us has a full understanding of it, by any means.But there are ways of looking at itthat I think can give you — give us all a taxonomy, a way of thinking about it.
时间： 4:40
zh-cn:这个图像是，对人类来说，是玩耍的开始。当母亲和婴儿闭上眼睛，而且当婴儿大的能够做出笑脸时，所发生的 — 很自然的 — 就是母亲乐趣的爆发。然后她开始向小孩说话，逗它和微笑，小孩也做同样的事情。如果我们对他们进行电脑图测试，他们的右脑会开始适应这些，所以乐趣开始出现在早期的玩耍场景中而且精神上我们开始对此开始有所了解。
en:And this image is, for humans, the beginning point of play.When that mother and infant lock eyes,and the infant&#39;s old enough to have a social smile,what happens — spontaneously — is the eruption of joy on the part of the mother.And she begins to babble and coo and smile, and so does the baby.If we&#39;ve got them wired up with an electroencephalogram,the right brain of each of them becomes attuned,so that the joyful emergence of this earliest of play scenesand the physiology of that is something we&#39;re beginning to get a handle on.
时间： 5:18
zh-cn:我想让你们开始想象所有基于人类上的每一点复杂的玩耍。现在我要带你们去了解看待玩耍的一种方式，但它从来就不仅仅是奇异一件事。
en:And I&#39;d like you to think that every bit of more complex playbuilds on this base for us humans.And so now I&#39;m going to take you through sort of a way of looking at play,but it&#39;s never just singularly one thing.
时间： 5:34
zh-cn:我们来看看身体玩耍，是一个让我们摆脱重力的自然欲望。这是一只山羊。如果你这一天不怎么样，试试这个：跳上跳下，到处动一下 — 你会感觉好很多。而且你可能会感觉像这个角色，它就是这样做的。它没有什么特别的目的，而且那就是关于玩耍的伟大。如果目的比做那个动作要重要那就可能不是玩耍。
en:We&#39;re going to look at body play,which is a spontaneous desire to get ourselves out of gravity.This is a mountain goat.If you&#39;re having a bad day, try this:jump up and down, wiggle around — you&#39;re going to feel better.And you may feel like this character,who is also just doing it for its own sake.It doesn&#39;t have a particular purpose, and that&#39;s what&#39;s great about play.If its purpose is more importantthan the act of doing it, it&#39;s probably not play.
时间： 6:04
zh-cn:然后这里是完全另外一种玩耍，是关于物体的玩耍。这只日本猴做好了一个雪球，然后这里她将把雪球从山上滚下去。不过 — 他们不会互相丢，但是这个基础的部分是有玩耍意思在里面的。人类的手，是可以操控物体的，是一双寻找大脑的手。大脑同时也在寻找手，而玩耍是最能结合两者的媒体。
en:And there&#39;s a whole other type of play, which is object play.And this Japanese macaque has made a snowball,and he or she&#39;s going to roll down a hill.And — they don&#39;t throw it at each other, but this is a fundamental part of being playful.The human hand, in manipulation of objects,is the hand in search of a brain;the brain is in search of a hand;and play is the medium by which those two are linked in the best way.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:JPL我们今天早上听到的 — JPL是一个不可思议的地方。他们找到了两个顾问，弗兰克威尔森和内特乔森。弗兰克威尔逊是一个神经学家，内特约乔森是一名机械师。他在一个长滩高中里教机械，发现了他的学生再也不能解决问题了。他尝试的去找出为什么。然后他得出一个结论，十分独特的结论，就是那些不能解决问题的学生，比如说修车，没有用他们的手去工作过。弗兰克威尔逊写过一本“双手”的书。他们走到一起 — JPL雇佣了他们。现在JPL,国家航天中心和波音，当他们去雇佣一个研究院或问题解决者之前 —即使他们是哈佛或加利福尼亚技术学院最好的学生 —如果他们没有修过车，在他们的早年没有做任何手工，和他们的手玩耍过，他们就不能解决问题。所以玩耍是实用的，而且是十分重要的。
en:JPL we heard this morning — JPL is an incredible place.They have located two consultants,Frank Wilson and Nate Johnson,who are — Frank Wilson is a neurologist, Nate Johnson is a mechanic.He taught mechanics in a high school in Long Beach,and found that his students were no longer able to solve problems.And he tried to figure out why. And he came to the conclusion, quite on his own,that the students who could no longer solve problems, such as fixing cars,hadn&#39;t worked with their hands.Frank Wilson had written a book called &quot;The Hand.&quot;They got together — JPL hired them.Now JPL, NASA and Boeing,before they will hire a research and development problem solver —even if they&#39;re summa cum laude from Harvard or Cal Tech —if they haven&#39;t fixed cars, haven&#39;t done stuff with their hands early in life,played with their hands, they can&#39;t problem-solve as well.So play is practical, and it&#39;s very important.
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:现在关于玩耍的一个关键是带这好奇和探索出生。 （笑）但是这必须是安全的探索。这正好可以 — 他是一个有解剖学兴趣的小男孩这是他的母亲，其他的一些情况不会像这么好。但是好奇，探索，是玩耍的一部分。如果你想有归宿，你需要社会性的玩耍。社会性的玩耍就是我们今天为什么会在这的原因之一，而且这就是玩耍的副产品。
en:Now one of the things about play is that it is born by curiosity and exploration. (Laughter)But it has to be safe exploration.This happens to be OK — he&#39;s an anatomically interested little boyand that&#39;s his mom. Other situations wouldn&#39;t be quite so good.But curiosity, exploration, are part of the play scene.If you want to belong, you need social play.And social play is part of what we&#39;re about here today,and is a byproduct of the play scene.
时间： 8:01
zh-cn:粗糙和滚动的玩耍。这些狮子，从远处看，好像在争斗。但是如果你仔细的看，他们就像北极熊和哈士奇一样：没有爪子，平滑的毛发，平和的眼神，没有利齿的嘴巴，芭蕾般的动作，曲线的运动 — 都是有关玩耍的表现。而且这项粗糙-滚动的玩耍是我们学习的伟大媒体。学前班小孩，打个比方，应该允许去潜水，打闹，吹口哨，叫喊，混乱的，会开发很多正常的情感以及很多社会副产品 — 认知，情感和身体 —这就都是粗糙和滚动玩耍的一部分。
en:Rough and tumble play.These lionesses, seen from a distance, looked like they were fighting.But if you look closely, they&#39;re kind of like the polar bear and husky:no claws, flat fur, soft eyes,open mouth with no fangs, balletic movements,curvilinear movements — all specific to play.And rough-and-tumble play is a great learning medium for all of us.Preschool kids, for example, should be allowed to dive, hit, whistle,scream, be chaotic, and develop through that a lot of emotional regulationand a lot of the other social byproducts — cognitive, emotional and physical —that come as a part of rough and tumble play.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:观众的玩耍，和仪式上玩耍 — 我们会参与这样一些玩耍。那些从波士顿来的人知道有这样一个时候 — 极少数 —红袜对赢得了冠军。但是看看这个有趣的照片上的脸和肢体语言你就会感觉到他们都是在玩耍。
en:Spectator play, ritual play — we&#39;re involved in some of that.Those of you who are from Boston know that this was the moment — rare —where the Red Sox won the World Series.But take a look at the face and the body language of everybodyin this fuzzy picture, and you can get a sense that they&#39;re all at play.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:想象的玩耍。我喜欢这张照片是因为我女儿，现在都快40了，在这个照片里，但是这让我回想起了她的故事和她的想象；她在这个年龄转纱的能力 — 学前班。做到一个玩耍者的重要一点是一个想象丰富的单独玩耍。
en:Imaginative play.I love this picture because my daughter, who&#39;s now almost 40, is in this picture,but it reminds me of her storytelling and her imagination,her ability to spin yarns at this age — preschool.A really important part of being a playeris imaginative solo play.
时间： 9:22
zh-cn:而且我喜欢这个，因为这是我们所做的。我们都有一个内部的叙述，是我们自己内心的故事。对我们的大脑最清晰的单位是故事。我今天来跟你们讲一个关于玩耍的故事。好了，这个，我想讲的是那个逃跑的鱼，那可真长，但是这好似玩耍的一个基础部分。
en:And I love this one, because it&#39;s also what we&#39;re about.We all have an internal narrative that&#39;s our own inner story.The unit of intelligibility of most of our brains is the story.I&#39;m telling you a story today about play.Well, this bushman, I think, is talking about the fish that got away that was that long,but it&#39;s a fundamental part of the play scene.
时间： 9:47
zh-cn:所以玩耍对大脑有什么影响？恩，很多。
en:So what does play do for the brain?Well, a lot.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:我们不太了解它对大脑有什么影响，因为对研究玩耍上的基金不是很多。我进入卡内基要求补助金。当我还是学习酒后驾车的重罪的学者时，他们给我了一份很大的资金，我想我有一个不错的记录。就当我用半小时在谈论玩耍的时候，很明显可以感觉到，他们感觉玩耍不是很严肃。我想那是 — 在几年前 — 那已经过去了，但是玩耍还是在继续，因为这里有一些很好的科学。
en:We don&#39;t know a whole lot about what it does for the human brain,because funding has not been exactly heavy for research on play.I walked into the Carnegie asking for a grant.They&#39;d given me a large grant when I was an academicianfor the study of felony drunken drivers, and I thought I had a pretty good track record,and by the time I had spent half an hour talking about play,it was obvious that they were not — did not feel that play was serious.I think that — that&#39;s a few years back — I think that wave is past,and the play wave is cresting,because there is some good science.
时间：10:31
zh-cn:没有什么比玩耍更能启迪大脑。三维的玩耍启迪小脑，给前额叶很多脉冲 —行政部分-帮助上下文记忆发展，以及，等等， 等等。
en:Nothing lights up the brain like play.Three-dimensional play fires up the cerebellum,puts a lot of impulses into the frontal lobe —the executive portion — helps contextual memory be developed,and — and, and, and.
时间：10:46
zh-cn:所以这—对我来说，是一个十分具有营养的学术冒险，去看看神经是这样和玩耍互动的，是怎样将人联合起来那些没有共同纪律的人联合起来。那就是国家玩耍学院所研究的一部分。而这就是我们可以这样研究玩耍的其中一个方法 —就是拿一个256制的脑电图。对不起，我没有一个有趣的前瞻性问题，但是这允许了移动性，那也就制约了对玩耍的学习。我们在场景里也有了母婴间的玩耍我们希望现在我们可以完成这个过程。
en:So it&#39;s — for me, its been an extremely nourishing scholarly adventureto look at the neuroscience that&#39;s associated with play, and to bring together peoplewho in their individual disciplines hadn&#39;t really thought of it that way.And that&#39;s part of what the National Institute for Play is all about.And this is one of the ways you can study play —is to get a 256-lead electroencephalogram.I&#39;m sorry I don&#39;t have a playful-looking subject, but it allows mobility,which has limited the actual study of play.And we&#39;ve got a mother-infant play scenariothat we&#39;re hoping to complete underway at the moment.
时间：11:25
zh-cn:我把这放在这里的原因是去整理我对有关玩耍起了什么作用的想法。动物的世界已经客观的反映了这个。在动物的时间，如果你拿老鼠一些在青少年时期玩耍的老鼠然后你压制玩耍 — 他们互相挤压，他们互相搏斗，他们把对方放到，那就是他们玩耍的一部分。如果你把你实验对象的一组停下来，允许你实验对象的另一组，然后你给这些老鼠展示带有猫气味的领子，他们本能的反应是逃窜和躲避。十分聪明 — 它们可不想被猫抓到。所以，发生了什么？他们都躲了起来。那些非玩耍者再也不出来了 —他们就死了。那些玩耍着慢慢的探索这个环境，搞清楚了发生了什么。这对我来说，最起码在老鼠里 —我想他们有着跟我们一样的神经传递系统以及一个相似的皮质结构 —那说明了玩耍对我们的生存十分重要。
en:The reason I put this here is also to queue upmy thoughts about objectifying what play does.The animal world has objectified it.In the animal world, if you take rats,who are hardwired to play at a certain period of their juvenile yearsand you suppress play — they squeak, they wrestle,they pin each other, that&#39;s part of their play.If you stop that behavior on one group that you&#39;re experimenting with,and you allow it in another group that you&#39;re experimenting with,and then you present those ratswith a cat odor-saturated collar,they&#39;re hardwired to flee and hide.Pretty smart — they don&#39;t want to get killed by a cat.So what happens?They both hide out.The non-players never come out —they die.The players slowly explore the environment,and begin again to test things out.That says to me, at least in rats —and I think they have the same neurotransmitters that we doand a similar cortical architecture —that play may be pretty important for our survival.
时间：12:37
zh-cn:等等，等等 — 这里我还可以谈上很多动物实验。
en:And, and, and — there are a lot more animal studies that I could talk about.
时间：12:42
zh-cn:现在，这是一个把玩耍剥夺的后果。（笑）这个花了很长时间 —我不得不把荷马拿下来，通过磁共振成像和断层扫描，和和多脑电图，对他测试，但是就这样的宅男，他的脑子缩水了。我们都知道，在被驯化的动物里当他们的玩耍被剥夺时，他们 — 老鼠也一样 — 他们不会去正常的开发大脑。
en:Now, this is a consequence of play deprivation. (Laughter)This took a long time —I had to get Homer down and put him through the fMRI and the SPECTand multiple EEGs, but as a couch potato, his brain has shrunk.And we do know that in domestic animalsand others, when they&#39;re play deprived,they don&#39;t — and rats also — they don&#39;t develop a brain that is normal.
时间：13:07
zh-cn:现在，项目表明玩耍的对立面不是工作，是忧郁。我想，如果你们想象一下没有玩耍的生活 —没有幽默，没有调戏，没有电影，没有游戏，没有幻想 — 等等，等等。同时想想没有玩耍的文化，生命或成人，或者小孩。我们之所以是这么独特的物种，是因为我们就是被设计成活到老玩到老。
en:Now, the program says that the opposite of play is not work,it&#39;s depression.And I think if you think about life without play —no humor, no flirtation, no movies,no games, no fantasy and, and, and.Try and imagine a culture or a life, adult or otherwisewithout play.And the thing that&#39;s so unique about our speciesis that we&#39;re really designed to play through our whole lifetime.
时间：13:41
zh-cn:我们都有玩耍的能力。没有人会去怀念我在几个星期前卡梅尔海滩照的那只狗的照片。接下来会发生的行为是玩耍。而且你可以信任它。人类信任的基础是建立在玩耍的信号上的。不过我们开始丢掉这些信号了，文化上，等等，就像成年人一样。那真丢人。我想我们还要学习很多。
en:And we all have capacity to play signal.Nobody misses that dog I took a picture of on a Carmel beach a couple of weeks ago.What&#39;s going to follow from that behavioris play.And you can trust it.The basis of human trust is established through play signals.And we begin to lose those signals, culturally and otherwise, as adults.That&#39;s a shame.I think we&#39;ve got a lot of learning to do.
时间：14:08
zh-cn:现在，简古德尔和他最喜爱的一个猩猩做了鬼脸。所以玩耍信号的一个部分肯定和声音，表情，身体，动作有关。你知道，你可一知道 — 而且我想当我们在集体玩耍是，在一个小组内获得安全感是十分重要的，通过他们对玩耍信号的动同分享。
en:Now, Jane Goodall has here a play face along with one of her favorite chimps.So part of the signaling system of playhas to do with vocal, facial, body, gestural.You know, you can tell — and I think when we&#39;re getting into collective play,its really important for groups to gain a sense of safetythrough their own sharing of play signals.
时间：14:32
zh-cn:你也许不知道这个词。但是它应该是你生物上的姓和名。因为幼态持续指不成熟的素质保持到成年。而且，我们是的，根据物理人类学家，通过很多很多的学习，大部分是神经上的，大部分是年轻的，大部分是灵活的，所有生物的共性。所以，是最具玩耍性的。这个让我们也踏入了讨论适应性的范围。
en:You may not know this word,but it should be your biological first name and last name.Because neoteny means the retention of immature qualities into adulthood.And we are, by physical anthropologists,by many, many studies, the most neotenous,the most youthful, the most flexible, the most plastic of all creatures.And therefore, the most playful.And this gives us a leg up on adaptability.
时间：15:01
zh-cn:现在，这里有一个看待玩耍的方法也是我想在这强调的，在玩耍的历史上。你个人的玩耍历史是独特的，通常是我们想象不到的一些事。
en:Now, there is a way of looking at playthat I also want to emphasize here,which is the play history.Your own personal play history is unique,and often is not something we think about particularly.
时间：15:17
zh-cn:这是一本由十分优秀的玩耍者写的书，他叫凯文卡罗尔。他叫凯文卡罗尔是一个来自玩耍被十分压制的条件下：酗酒的母亲，父亲的缺席，罪恶都市费城，黑人，还必须照顾他的弟弟。发现在他被关起来的窗口里可以看到一个公园。他有一些不一样的感觉。所以他就去追求起来。这样他的生活 — 他生活的转变从一个被压制的人，我们也许可以判断到 — 潜在的监狱或死亡 —他成了一个语言学家，一个76人队的训练师，现在是一个煽动气氛的演讲者。而且他赋予了玩耍一种转变他一生的动力
en:This is a book written by a consummate playerby the name of Kevin Carroll.Kevin Carroll came from extremely deprived circumstances:alcoholic mother, absent father, inner-city Philadelphia,black, had to take care of a younger brother.Found that when he looked at a playgroundout of a window into which he had been confined,he felt something different.And so he followed up on it.And his life — the transformation of his lifefrom deprivation and what one would expect — potentially prison or death —he become a linguist, a trainer for the 76ers and now is a motivational speaker.And he gives play as a transformative forceover his entire life.
时间：16:07
zh-cn:现在还有另外一种玩耍历史，我想是正在进行中。你们那些记得戈尔的，在第一的时期，然后在他第二个成功的时间里，但是没有竞选总统成功，也许记得他有点不自然，不像他自己。最少在公众面前是这样。在他的历史看来，这样在压力下很正常。至少对我来说，从一个心理医生的观点来看他生命中很大一部分是被安排好的。夏天是努力，努力工作，在田纳西的高温下。他背负者华盛顿和议员父亲对他的期望。即使我想他肯定有着玩耍的能力 —因为我的确知道这样一些事情 —我想，他现在也许不是那么有权利通过做他自己想做的事情通过他自己的内心的渴望，我想这这和我们的玩耍历史都有相同的基础。
en:Now there&#39;s another play history that I think is a work in progress.Those of you who remember Al Gore,during the first term and then during his successfulbut unelected run for the presidency,may remember him as being kind of wooden and not entirely his own person,at least in public.And looking at his history, which is common in the press,it seems to me, at least — looking at it from a shrink&#39;s point of view —that a lot of his life was programmed.Summers were hard, hard work, in the heat of Tennessee summers.He had the expectations of his senatorial father and Washington, D.C.And although I think he certainly had the capacity for play —because I do know something about that —he wasn&#39;t as empowered, I think, as he now isby paying attention to what is his own passionand his own inner drive,which I think has its basis in all of us in our play history.
时间：17:20
zh-cn:所以，我能从个人层次上鼓励的是，尽量往回探索到一个你有的最清晰，最快乐，最有玩耍的图像。无论这是个玩具，是生日或是渡假。由此之上在建立情感看看是怎样和你现在生活所联系起来。然后你会发现，你也许会换工作 —也当我让人们去做这个东西是最明显的后果为此能通过玩耍来变的更强大。或者你会通过优先处理他和在意它从而丰富你的生活
en:So what I would encourage on an individual level to do,is to explore backwards as far as you can goto the most clear, joyful, playful image that you have,whether it&#39;s with a toy, on a birthday or on a vacation.And begin to build to build from the emotion of thatinto how that connects with your life now.And you&#39;ll find, you may change jobs —which has happened to a number people when I&#39;ve had them do this —in order to be more empowered through their play.Or you&#39;ll be able to enrich your life by prioritizing itand paying attention to it.
时间：17:56
zh-cn:我的绝大多数是小组工作，我这样讲出来是因为斯坦福世界大学大学，谢谢大卫凯利和其他人那些有眼光建立这个的人允许我们这组人聚在一起从而开办了一个课程叫做“从玩耍到创新”在这个课程里，你会看到对人类玩耍状态的参与，就像是北极熊对哈士奇的状态以及它对创新思维的重要性。去探索玩耍的行为，玩耍的发展和其生物学上的基础。去通过设计的思维来使用这些原则，去在整个世界推动创新。所有的学生都会和真实世界的伙伴合作在宽广应用的设计项目上。
en:Most of us work with groups, and I put this up becausethe d.school, the design school at Stanford,thanks to David Kelley and a lot of otherswho have been visionary about its establishment,has allowed a group of us to get togetherand create a course called &quot;From Play to Innovation.&quot;And you&#39;ll see this course is to investigatethe human state of play, which is kind of like the polar bear-husky stateand its importance to creative thinking:&quot;to explore play behavior, its development and its biological basis;to apply those principles, through design thinking,to promote innovation in the corporate world;and the students will work with real-world partnerson design projects with widespread application.&quot;
时间：18:37
zh-cn:这是我们的首航。我们开始了有2个半到3个月了，而且这真的是很有趣。这是我们的得意门生，这个拉布拉多，它教给了我们很多关于玩耍是什么一个状态，这是一个十分十分年老的负责教师。和布兰登博伊勒，理查克莱登 — 在最右边的是斯图尔特汤姆森—我想他会和乔治苏木特一起的诺贝尔奖，在神经学上。我们已经见多布兰登了，来自IDEO，我们其他人就坐在一旁，看这些学生在教室里把这些玩耍的要领使用到行动上。他们其中的一个项目是看是什么导致会议很无聊。然后去做些什么来改变这个。所以，接下来会有一个关于这个的学生短片。
en:This is our maiden voyage in this.We&#39;re about two and a half, three months into it, and it&#39;s really been fun.There is our star pupil, this labrador,who taught a lot of us what a state of play is,and an extremely aged and decrepit professor in charge there.And Brendan Boyle, Rich Crandall — and on the far right is, I think, a person whowill be in cahoots with George Smoot for a Nobel Prize — Stuart Thompson,in neuroscience.So we&#39;ve had Brendan, who&#39;s from IDEO,and the rest of us sitting aside and watching these studentsas they put play principles into practice in the classroom.And one of their projects was tosee what makes meetings boring,and to try and do something about it.So what will follow is a student-made filmabout just that.
时间：19:34
zh-cn:旁白：流利是幻影的精神状态是那个人完全投入到他所做的事情上。特点是充满活力的焦点的感觉，全身投入和在这个活动中的成功感。
en:Narrator: Flow is the mental state of apparitionin which the person is fully immersed in what he or she is doing.Characterized by a feeling of energized focus,full involvement and success in the process of the activity.
时间：19:51
zh-cn:一个重要的关键见解，我们对会议的教训是人们一个一个的传下去，直到一天结束。会议者这会议上不知道他们什么时候可以回到他们离开的工作上。但是不一定是非要这样。
en:An important key insight that we learned about meetingsis that people pack them in one after another,disruptive to the day.Attendees at meetings don&#39;t know when they&#39;ll get back to the taskthat they left at their desk.But it doesn&#39;t have to be that way.
时间：20:07
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：21:00
zh-cn:一些来自被称作设计学院的地方，的圣人和毛皮僧侣设计了一个会议，当会议结束了你就可以把它脱下。把会议放下，然后你可以回到自己安静的空间里。因为当你再需要的时候，会议就挂在你的衣柜里。
en:Some sage and repeatedly furry monksat this place called the d.schooldesigned a meeting that you can literally step out of when it&#39;s over.Take the meeting off, and have peace of mind that you can come back to me.Because when you need it again,the meeting is literally hanging in your closet.
时间：21:23
zh-cn:可穿着的会议。因为当你穿上它时，你立刻会得到所有好玩的和有用的有效率的会议的一切。但是一旦你脱掉他...那你就要开始行动。
en:The Wearable Meeting.Because when you put it on, you immediately get everything you needto have a fun and productive and useful meeting.But when you take it off —that&#39;s when the real action happens.
时间：21:37
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：21:43
zh-cn:（笑）（掌声）
en:(Laughter) (Applause)
时间：21:46
zh-cn:斯图尔特布朗：所以我要鼓励你们所有人去参与不仅仅是在你工作需要的时候—不仅仅是在你玩耍的时候 —也是当你的的生活被每分每秒被注入身体，物品，社会，幻想，和各种变革的玩耍。我想你会有一个更好的更有力的生活。谢谢。
en:Stuart Brown: So I would encourage you allto engagenot in the work-play differential —where you set aside time to play —but where your life becomes infusedminute by minute, hour by hour,with body,object,social, fantasy, transformational kinds of play.And I think you&#39;ll have a better and more empowered life.Thank You.
时间：22:22
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：22:29
zh-cn:约翰胡可巴里：我的理解是你要说的是可能有一部分人诱惑的看着你的工作我想我听到过这个，在我对玩耍的流行精神学上的理解是，那就是，动物和人类对玩耍的，是成人活动的一种排练。你的工作似乎说明了这是十分错误的。
en:John Hockenberry: So it sounds to me like what you&#39;re saying is thatthere may be some temptation on the part of people to look at your workand go —I think I&#39;ve heard this, in my kind of pop psychological understanding of play,that somehow,the way animals and humans deal with play,is that it&#39;s some sort of rehearsal for adult activity.Your work seems to suggest that that is powerfully wrong.
时间：22:54
zh-cn:SB：对，我想那是不准确的，我想那大概是因为动物已经教了我们这个。如果你不让一只猫玩 —你可以这样做，我们整天看到猫动来动去 —他们就还是像出色捕猎者一样，如果它们不曾玩耍。但如果你想象下一个小孩假装是金刚，或是赛车手，或是消防员，他们不会都成为赛车手或消防员。你知道，所以准备和未来有一个断开的地方 —那也就是大多数人对玩耍很舒服的地方 —就像一个单独的生物实体。
en:SB: Yeah, I don&#39;t think that&#39;s accurate,and I think probably because animals have taught us that.If you stop a cat from playing —which you can do, and we&#39;ve all seen how cats bat around stuff —they&#39;re just as good predators as they would be if they hadn&#39;t played.And if you imagine a kidpretending to be King Kong,or a race car driver, or a fireman,they don&#39;t all become race car drivers or firemen, you know.So there&#39;s a disconnect between preparation for the future —which is what most people are comfortable in thinking about play as —and thinking of it as a separate biological entity.
时间：23:37
zh-cn:而这就是我开始追寻这些动物，四到五年它真的改变了我的观点，从临床医生到现在的我，那就是玩耍有一个生物性的地方，就像是睡觉做梦一样。如果你从生物的角度上去看睡觉做梦，动物也睡觉做梦，他们排练，他们做一些其他的事情，帮助记忆而且那时睡觉和做梦的十分重要的部分。
en:And this is where my chasing animals for four, five yearsreally changed my perspective from a clinician to what I am now,which is that play has a biological place,just like sleep and dreams do.And if you look at sleep and dreams biologically,animals sleep and dream,and they rehearse and they do some other things that help memoryand that are a very important part of sleep and dreams.
时间：24:07
zh-cn:哺乳动物和那些有多余的神经元的动物的下一个进化就是玩耍。而事实是北极熊和哈士奇或喜鹊和一只熊或你和我和我的狗可以交流拥有和其他事物一样的玩耍的感觉。而且这学习和训练这样对大脑来说十分重要。所以这不是你就每天空闲时候做的事情。
en:The next step of evolution in mammals andcreatures with divinely superfluous neuronswill be to play.And the fact that the polar bear and husky or magpie and a bearor you and I and our dogs can crossover and have that experiencesets play aside as something separate.And its hugely important in learning and crafting the brain.So it&#39;s not just something you do in your spare time.
时间：24:36
zh-cn:JH:你怎样才能保持 — 我知道你是科学研究机构的一部分，你也和其他人一样要协调赠款和建议—你怎样去防止 —而且你做出的一些数据，这些你谈论的和你做出的好的科学是十分难以处理的你这样防止媒体打断你的工作或科学机构打断你工作的影响力，有点像莫扎特的比喻就像 “哦，MRIs 展示了”玩耍增强了你的智力。好的，让我们把小孩放起来，把笔给他们拿开让他们每次玩上一个星期，他们会变成天才然后去上哈弗。“你这样防止人们在你研究的数据上去这样谈论这种行为？
en:JH: How do you keep — and I know you&#39;re part of the scientific research community,and you have to justify your existence with grants and proposals like everyone else —how do you prevent —and some of the data that you&#39;ve produced, the good science that you&#39;re talking about you&#39;ve produced, is hot to handle.How do you prevent either the media&#39;s interpretation of your workor the scientific community&#39;s interpretation of the implications of your work,kind of like the Mozart metaphor,where, &quot;Oh, MRIs showthat play enhances your intelligence.Well, let&#39;s round these kids up, put them in pensand make them play for months at a time; they&#39;ll all be geniuses and go to Harvard.&quot;How do you prevent people from taking that sort of actionon the data that you&#39;re developing?
时间：25:22
zh-cn:SB:恩，我想我只知道能这样做，那就是累计我得到的建议：那些从医生 —那些可以建立计息玩耍或小丑或其他—一种玩耍的状态。所以人们知道那那在那。然后你得到一个fMRI的专家，你得到弗兰克威尔森，你也得到其他一些十分难懂的科学家，包括精神学家。然后你把他们形成一组关注玩耍。这样要不严肃对待还很难
en:SB: Well, I think the only way I know to do itis to have accumulated the advisers that I havewho go from practitioners —who can establish through improvisational play or clowning or whatever —a state of play.So people know that it&#39;s there.And then you get an fMRI specialist, and you get Frank Wilson,and you get other kinds of hard scientists, including neuroendocrinologists.And you get them into a group together focused on play,and it&#39;s pretty hard not to take it seriously.
时间：25:57
zh-cn:遗憾的是，国家科学基金会，国家心理健康学院或者是任何这样看待它的人 — 认真的对此做的还够充分。我的意思是，你不会听到癌症或心脏病和玩耍在一起合作。但是我仍然是把它看作是生存的基础 — 长期的 —也是学习公众健康的基础。
en:Unfortunately, that hasn&#39;t been done sufficientlyfor the National Science Foundation, National Institute of Mental Healthor anybody else to really look at it in this way seriously.I mean you don&#39;t hear about anything that&#39;s like cancer or heart diseaseassociated with play.And yet I see it as something that&#39;s just as basic for survival — long term —as learning some of the basic things about public health.
时间：26:23
zh-cn:JH:斯图尔特布朗，十分感谢你。
en:JH: Stuart Brown, thank you very much.
时间：26:25
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
