时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想跟大家谈谈我的故事。我的很多时间都用在指导成年人怎样在工作中使用视觉化语言还有涂鸦。自然，我遇到很多抵触因为有人认为这样做不理性而且不严肃。但是我不这样认为因为我知道涂鸦对于我们处理信息和解决问题的方式有深远的影响。
en:So I just want to tell you my story.I spend a lot of timeteaching adults how to use visual languageand doodling in the workplace.And naturally, I encounter a lot of resistance,because it&#39;s considered to be anti-intellectualand counter to serious learning.But I have a problem with that belief,because I know that doodling has a profound impacton the way that we can process informationand the way that we can solve problems.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:所以我就纳闷——为什么社会上对于涂鸦的看法和涂鸦真正的功能是脱节的呢？我发现了一些非常有趣的事实比如说，对doodle 这个词没有任何一种解释是褒义的。在17世纪，doodle 是傻瓜、笨蛋的意思就像扬基歌中唱的那样。到了18世纪，它变成了一个动词意思是欺骗、嘲弄、或取笑某人到了19世纪，这个词指贪污的政客而现在，这个词拥有了有史以来最讨厌的定义至少在我看来是最讨厌的，那就是：Doodle的正式定义是偷懒，吊儿郎当、鬼混胡闹、涂画无意义的记号，做没有价值、没有实质、没有重要性的事情，还有——我认为最绝的——无所事事。难怪人们反对在工作中涂鸦。在工作时无所事事与在工作时手淫一样是完全不恰当的。
en:So I was curious about why there was a disconnectbetween the way our society perceives doodlingand the way that the reality is.So I discovered some very interesting things.For example, there&#39;s no such thingas a flattering definition of a doodle.In the 17th century, a doodle was a simpleton or a fool —as in Yankee Doodle.In the 18th century, it became a verb,and it meant to swindle or ridicule or to make fun of someone.In the 19th century, it was a corrupt politician.And today, we have what is perhaps our most offensive definition,at least to me, which is the following:To doodle officially meansto dawdle,to dilly dally, to monkey around,to make meaningless marks,to do something of little value, substance or import,and — my personal favorite —to do nothing.No wonder people are averse to doodling at work.Doing nothing at work is akin to masturbating at work;it&#39;s totally inappropriate.
时间： 1:32
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:此外，我还听说了一些恐怖的故事一些人因为在上课时涂鸦而被老师责骂还有在开会时涂鸦而被上司批评。社会上排斥涂鸦的文化定式是很强大的在这样的文化定式中学习应该是很严肃的一件事。遗憾的是媒体倾向于加强这种文化定式当记者们得以报道某位要员在国会中涂鸦的场景时他们通常会用“撞见”“被捉到”或者“查出”这类词就好像涂鸦就是犯了某种罪行一样。
en:Additionally, I&#39;ve heard horror storiesfrom people whose teachers scolded them, of course, for doodling in classrooms.And they have bosses who scold them for doodling in the boardroom.There is a powerful cultural norm against doodlingin settings in which we are supposed to learn something.And unfortunately,the press tends to reinforce this normwhen they&#39;re reporting on a doodling scene —of an important person at a confirmation hearing and the like —they typically use words like &quot;discovered&quot;or &quot;caught&quot; or &quot;found out,&quot;as if there&#39;s some sort of criminal act being committed.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:另外，人们对于涂鸦有一种心理厌恶。谢了，弗洛伊德。在20世纪30年代，弗洛伊德告诉我们你可以根据人们的涂鸦来分析他们的心理这种分析并不准确，但托尼·布莱尔就中过招在2005年达沃斯论坛上他的涂鸦被“发现”，并被贴上了这样的标签。现在它变成了比尔·盖茨的涂鸦。（笑声）比尔，如果你在场，没有人会认为你是自大狂。但这确实导致人们不愿意公开自己的涂鸦。
en:And additionally, there is a psychological aversion to doodling —thank you, Freud.In the 1930s, Freud told us allthat you could analyze people&#39;s psychesbased on their doodles.This is not accurate, but it did happen to Tony Blairat the Davos Forum in 2005,when his doodles were, of course, &quot;discovered&quot;and he was labeled the following things.Now it turned out to be Bill Gates&#39; doodle.(Laughter)And Bill, if you&#39;re here, nobody thinks you&#39;re megalomaniacal.But that does contributeto people not wanting to share their doodles.
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:现在我要讲最重要的了。这是我所坚信的。我认为我们的文化过分关注来自于语言文字的信息而几乎看不到涂鸦的价值我觉得这样是不合适的。正因为我有这样的信念需要传达给大家，今天我来到这里，希望把所有人扳回真相的这一边这个真相就是：涂鸦是一种极其有用的工具我们要牢记并重新认识这种工具。
en:And here is the real deal. Here&#39;s what I believe.I think that our cultureis so intensely focused on verbal informationthat we&#39;re almost blinded to the value of doodling.And I&#39;m not comfortable with that.And so because of that belief that I think needs to be burst,I&#39;m here to send us all hurtling back to the truth.And here&#39;s the truth:doodling is an incredibly powerful tool,and it is a tool that we need to remember and to re-learn.
时间： 3:03
zh-cn:以下是涂鸦这个词新的定义我希望在座的有来自牛津英语词典的人士因为我想和你稍后谈谈。这是真实的定义：涂鸦实际上是能帮助你思考的自发性记号因此成千上万的人涂鸦关于涂鸦的另一个有趣的事实是：当人们接收语言文字形式的信息时，涂鸦的人比不涂鸦的人能记住更多的信息。我们以为人们在注意力涣散时才去涂鸦但真相却是，涂鸦是一种预防措施而使你的注意力不涣散。另外，涂鸦对于创造性解决问题和深层次信息处理有深远的影响。
en:So here&#39;s a new definition for doodling.And I hope there&#39;s someone in here from The Oxford English Dictionary,because I want to talk to you later.Here&#39;s the real definition:Doodling is really to make spontaneous marks to help yourself think.That is why millions of people doodle.Here&#39;s another interesting truth about the doodle:People who doodle when they&#39;re exposed to verbal informationretain more of that informationthan their non-doodling counterparts.We think doodling is something you do when you lose focus,but in reality, it is a preemptive measureto stop you from losing focus.Additionally, it has a profound effecton creative problem-solvingand deep information processing.
时间： 3:40
zh-cn:学习者通过四种方式来吸收信息以便做出决策。这就是视觉、听觉、读写、以及运动。为了能够完整掌握某种信息并活学活用我们至少要使用其中的两种学习模式或者只使用其中的一种学习模式但要加上自己的情感共鸣。涂鸦那令人不可思议的好处就在于它同时用到了全部四种学习模式也完全可能引起情感共鸣。这真是一个相当重要的贡献——对于一个等同于无所事事的行为来说。
en:There are four ways that learners intake informationso that they can make decisions.They are visual, auditory,reading and writing and kinesthetic.Now in order for us to really chew on informationand do something with it,we have to engage at least two of those modalities,or we have to engage one of those modalitiescoupled with an emotional experience.The incredible contribution of the doodleis that it engages all four learning modalities simultaneouslywith the possibility of an emotional experience.That is a pretty solid contributionfor a behavior equated with doing nothing.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:虽然有些蠢，可我发现下面这个研究之后真是喜极而泣。有一项人类学研究是关于儿童艺术活动的演进。人们发现，无论来自哪里、哪个年代，所有的孩子在视觉逻辑方面表现出一致的发展规律伴随他们的成长换句话说，他们的视觉语言体系有着共同的发展规律按照一个可以预测的顺序而变得越来越复杂。我觉得这是很神奇的。我想这充分说明了涂鸦是人的天性但是我们在拒绝自己的这种天性。最后，很多人并不了解.涂鸦草图是我们一些最伟大的文化遗产形成的雏形举一个例子：这是建筑师法兰克·盖瑞(Frank Gehry)完成阿布扎比的古根海姆美术馆的雏形。
en:This is so nerdy,but this made me cry when I discovered this.So they did anthropological researchinto the unfolding of artistic activity in children,and they found that, across space and time,all children exhibit the same evolution in visual logicas they grow.In other words, they have a shared and growingcomplexity in visual languagethat happens in a predictable order.And I think that is incredible.I think that means doodling is native to usand we simply are denying ourselves that instinct.And finally, a lot a people aren&#39;t privy to this,but the doodle is a precursorto some of our greatest cultural assets.This is but one:this is Frank Gehry the architect&#39;s precursor to the Guggenheim in Abu Dhabi.
时间： 4:56
zh-cn:这就是我的观点：无论什么情况下，都不要禁止涂鸦的行为无论是在教室，在会议室，甚至是在作战指挥部。相反，在这些场合，应该充分发挥涂鸦的作用因为信息过于密集而且需要处理的信息量很大我还想更进一步地来说。由于涂鸦是人人皆可的，又不像任何一种艺术形式那样不可亲近涂鸦可以成为一种很好的手段来帮助人们获得更高的视觉认知能力。朋友们，涂鸦从来不曾是理智思考的仇敌，而事实上，它是最棒的盟友之一。
en:So here is my point:Under no circumstances should doodling be eradicatedfrom a classroom or a boardroomor even the war room.On the contrary,doodling should be leveraged in precisely those situationswhere information density is very highand the need for processing that information is very high.And I will go you one further.Because doodling is so universally accessibleand it is not intimidating as an art form,it can be leveraged as a portalthrough which we move peopleinto higher levels of visual literacy.My friends, the doodle has never beenthe nemesis of intellectual thought.In reality, it is one of its greatest allies.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:Thank you.(Applause)
