时间： 0:11
zh-cn:女性占据50%的中层管理和专业职位，但在企业高层职务中女人所占的百分比甚至还不到上述数字的三分之一。因此一些人听到这个统计数据后就会问，为什么女性领导者如此之少？但是我看着这个统计数据并且，如果你跟我一样，相信那上面显示的各级别领导人数，你会看到中管管理有着数量惊人的杰出女性领导者，由此你会提出另一个问题：为什么有这么多女性卡在中层？她们怎样才能升到高层？
en:Women represent50 percent of middle managementand professional positions,but the percentages of womenat the top of organizationsrepresent not even a third of that number.So some people hear that statistic and they ask,why do we have so few women leaders?But I look at that statisticand, if you, like me, believethat leadership manifests at every level,you would see that there&#39;s a tremendous,awesome resource of leaderswho are leading in middle management,which raises a different question:Why are there so many womenmired in the middleand what has to happento take them to the top?
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:你们中的一些人可能正是那些正在寻求升职的女性中层管理者。嗯，汤娅是这些女性中一个典型例子。我两年前认识她。那时她是一家财富50强企业的副总裁，她怀着一种深深的挫败感对我说：“我很努力去提升我的自信和魄力，并且将自己打造成一个很棒的品牌，我从上司那里得到了很好的评价，公司的360度测评让我知道我的团队很喜欢为我工作，我参加了公司所有管理课程，我跟一个很优秀的导师一起工作，但是我已经错失了两次升职机会，尽管我的经理知道我一直致力于升职并且愿意接受海外派遣。我不明白为什么我会错失晋升的机会。“
en:So some of you might be some of those womenwho are in middle managementand seeking to move up in your organization.Well, Tonya is a great exampleof one of these women.I met her two years ago.She was a vice president in a Fortune 50 company,and she said to me with a sense of deep frustration,&quot;I&#39;ve worked really hard to improve my confidenceand my assertiveness and develop a great brand,I get terrific performance evals from my boss,my 360s in the organization let me knowthat my teams love working for me,I&#39;ve taken every management course that I can here,I am working with a terrific mentor,and yet I&#39;ve been passed overtwice for advancement opportunities,even when my manager knowsthat I&#39;m committed to moving upand even interested in an international assignment.I don&#39;t understand whyI&#39;m being passed over.&quot;
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:汤娅没有意识到的是对于女性来说在事业成功方程式中有一个失踪的33%，并且要想理解这个失踪的33%是什么。这就需要减小高层中的性别差异。
en:So what Tonya doesn&#39;t realizeis that there&#39;s a missing 33 percentof the career success equation for women,and it&#39;s understanding what this missing 33 percent isthat&#39;s required to close the gender gap at the top.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:为了在组织中获得晋升，你必须要显现你的领导才能，这也适用于你们中的所有人，不管是女性还是男性。这意味着你必须运用你的长处去获得认可，并让别人发挥优势去获得和维持非凡的成果。换句话说，它意味着你必须使用你的技巧、天赋和才能，帮助企业实现战略财务目标，并且通过与企业内外的人有效地合作，以达到上述目标。虽然领导能力中的这三个要素都很重要，但当涉及到在组织中获得晋升时，它们的重要性是不一样的。接下来请注意绿色柱条。
en:In order to move up in organizations,you have to be known for your leadership skills,and this would apply to any of you,women or men.It means that you have to be recognizedfor using the greatness in youto achieve and sustain extraordinary outcomesby engaging the greatness in others.Put in other language,it means you have to use your skillsand talents and abilitiesto help the organization achieveits strategic financial goalsand do that by working effectively with othersinside of the organization and outside.And although all three of these elementsof leadership are important,when it comes to moving up in organizations,they aren&#39;t equally important.So pay attention to the green boxas I move forward.
时间： 3:18
zh-cn:在寻找和确定拥有高潜能——那种能做到企业高层的潜能——的员工时，技巧和能力，也就是图中的绿色柱条，它们的重要性是领导能力中其它两个要素的两倍。这些技巧和能力可以总结为商业、战略和财务智慧。换句话说，这套技能必须要与理解企业发展方向、发展战略、财务目标相结合，并且要理解你在企业发展过程中所扮演的角色。这就是女性的事业成功方程式中那迷失的33%，不是因为我们的才能不足，而是因为没能得到合理的建议。
en:In seeking and identifyingemployees with high potential,the potential to go to the top of organizations,the skills and competenciesthat relate to that green boxare rated twice as heavilyas those in the other two elements of leadership.These skills and competenciescan be summarized as business,strategic, and financial acumen.In other words, this skill set has to dowith understanding where the organization is going,what its strategy is,what financial targets it has in place,and understanding your rolein moving the organization forward.This is that missing 33 percentof the career success equation for women,not because it&#39;s missing in our capabilitiesor abilities,but because it&#39;s missing in the advicethat we&#39;re given.
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:接下来我举个例子。5前年，我应邀主持一场高管会议，当晚的主题是“对于高潜力的员工，你最看着他们的哪些特点？“想一想我根据他们所说为你们总结出来的三个领导力要素。
en:Here&#39;s what I mean by that.Five years ago, I was asked to moderatea panel of executives,and the topic for the evening was&quot;What do you look for in high-potential employees?&quot;So think about the three elements of leadershipas I summarize for you what they told me.
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:他们说，“我们寻找那些聪明、勤奋、坚定、可靠和抗压力强的员工。“这与哪个领导力要素相关呢？个人的卓越能力。
en:They said, &quot;We look for peoplewho are smart and hard working and committedand trustworthy and resilient.&quot;So which element of leadership does that relate to?Personal greatness.
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:他们说，“我们寻找那些能够与客户融洽相处，能够增强团队力量，能够有效谈判，能够妥善处理冲突的员工，总的来说就是非常善于沟通的人。“这又是哪个领导力要素呢？帮助他人发挥优势。
en:They said, &quot;We look for employeeswho are great with our customers,who empower their teams,who negotiate effectively,who are able to manage conflict well,and are overall great communicators.&quot;Which element of leadership does that equate to?Engaging the greatness in others.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:这时他们默不作声。因此我就问，“嗯，那你们怎么看待那些了解公司业务，知道公司走向，并且知道自己在其中扮演什么角色的人呢？你们怎么看待那些能够审视外部环境，识别危险和机遇，制定策略或者提出战略性建议的人呢？以及如何看待那些面对公司财务报表能理解它所透露出来的讯息，然后采取适当行动或者提出适当建议的人呢？“
en:And then they pretty much stopped.So I asked,&quot;Well, what about peoplewho understand your business,where it&#39;s going,and their role in taking it there?And what about people who are ableto scan the external environment,identify risks and opportunities,make strategy or make strategic recommendations?And what about people who are ableto look at the financials of your business,understand the story that the financials tell,and either take appropriate actionor make appropriate recommendations?&quot;
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:对于男性，他们表示，“这些都是理所当然的。“
en:And to a man, they said,&quot;That&#39;s a given.&quot;
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:因此我转向现场的150位女性观众，然后问她们，“你们当中有多少人曾经被告知过职场晋升的敲门砖是你的商业、战略和财务智慧，然后其它的重要能力都只是将你与人才库中的其他人区分出来而已？&quot;只有三位女性举手，而这五年来这个问题我也问过全球各地女性，得到的答复都差不多。
en:So I turned to the audienceof 150 women and I asked,&quot;How many of you have ever been toldthat the door-opener for career advancementis your business, strategic and financial acumen,and that all the other important stuffis what differentiates you in the talent pool?&quot;Three women raised their hand,and I&#39;ve asked this question of womenall around the globe in the five years since,and the percentage is never much different.
时间： 6:26
zh-cn:这很明显，对吧？但是为什么会这样呢？嗯，主要有三个原因可以解释为什么给女性关于成功职业的建议中有一个失踪的33%。当企业给女性提供指导时，一般都集中在传统的建议，我们已经听了超过40年的那种建议，而对于那些跟商业、战略和财务目标有关的建议则很少提到。大多数建议都是强调那些我们需要采取的个人行动，比如说变得更加坚定、更加自信，打造自己的个人品牌，也就是汤娅一直在努力实现的那些目标，以及一些关于如何与其他人共事的建议，比如说学会自我推销、找一个导师、增强你的人际网络。事实上没人说过商业、策略和财务智慧的重要性。但这并不意味着这个建议不重要。而是意味着这个建议是从职业生涯开端向中层管理突破所必需的建议，但它不是那种能让女性从中层管理——这个女性占据50%份额的位置——向高管职位突破的建议。这就是为什么这些给女性的传统建议在这40年间并没有缩小高层职位上的性别差异，而且将来也不会缩小。
en:So this is obvious, right?But how can it be?Well, there are primarily three reasonsthat there&#39;s this missing 33 percentin the career success advice given to women?When organizations direct womentoward resourcesthat focus on the conventional advicethat we&#39;ve been hearing for over 40 years,there&#39;s a notable absence of advice that relatesto business, strategic and financial acumen.Much of the advice is emphasizingpersonal actions that we need to take,like become more assertive, become more confident,develop your personal brand,things that Tonya&#39;s been working on,and advice about working with other people,things like learn to self-promote,get a mentor, enhance your network,and virtually nothing saidabout the importance of business, strategicand financial acumen.This doesn&#39;t mean that this advice is unimportant.What it means is that this is advicethat&#39;s absolutely essential for breaking throughfrom career start to middle management,but it&#39;s not the advicethat gets women to break throughfrom the middle, where we&#39;re 50 percent,to senior and executive positions.And this is why conventional advice to womenin 40 years hasn&#39;t closed the gender gap at the topand won&#39;t close it.
时间： 7:53
zh-cn:接下来，第二个原因跟为什么汤娅在上级那里得到很好的评价、从团队里得到不错的反馈、并且参加了所有能参加的管理课程，却得不到晋升有关。你可能会认为她通过人才发展系统和绩效管理系统从公司获得了信息，让她知道发展商业、策略和财务智慧是多么重要，但是你看，绿色柱条还是非常小。平均来说，在我工作过的那些组织里的人才和绩效管理系统对于另外两项领导能力要素的重视是商业、策略和财务智慧的三倍，这就是为什么传统的人才和绩效管理系统过去并没有，而且将来也不会缩小高层管理中的性别差异。
en:Now, the second reasonrelates to Tonya&#39;s commentsabout having had excellent performance evals,great feedback from her teams,and having taken every management training programshe can lay her hands on.So you would think that she&#39;s gettingmessages from her organizationthrough the talent development systemsand performance management systemsthat let her know how important it isto develop business, strategic and financial acumen,but here again, that green square is quite small.On average,talent and performance management systemsin the organizations that I&#39;ve worked withfocus three to oneon the other two elements of leadershipcompared to the importance of business,strategic and financial acumen,which is why typical talent and performance systemshaven&#39;t closed and won&#39;t closethe gender gap at the top.
时间： 8:54
zh-cn:汤娅也谈到过跟导师一起工作，这个真的很重要，因为如果组织的人才和绩效管理系统没有给大家提供关于商业、策略和财务智慧重要性的信息，那么男性又是如何获得提升的呢？主要来说有两种方式。一个是因为他们会被引导进入这些职位，另一个是私下的指导和支持。
en:Now, Tonya also talked about working with a mentor,and this is really important to talk about,because if organizations,talent and performance systemsaren&#39;t giving people in generalinformation about the importance ofbusiness, strategic and financial acumen,how are men getting to the top?Well, there are primarily two ways.One is because of the positionsthey&#39;re guided into,and the other is because of informal mentoringand sponsorship.
时间： 9:24
zh-cn:关于指导，女性又有怎样的体验呢？最近与我共事的一位主管向我介绍了他的经验。他感到很自豪，因为去年他收了两个徒弟：一男一女。他说：“我帮这个女徒弟建立自信，帮这个男徒弟学习业务，我没有意识到我教他们的东西有任何不同。“他说的是实话。
en:So what&#39;s women&#39;s experienceas it relates to mentoring?Well, this comment from an executivethat I worked with recentlyillustrates that experience.He was very proud of the fact that last year,he had two protégés: a man and a woman.And he said, &quot;I helped the woman build confidence,I helped the man learn the business,and I didn&#39;t realize that I was treating themany differently.&quot;And he was sincere about that.
时间： 9:54
zh-cn:所以这说明作为主管，不管我们是女是男，我们都对于女性和男性、对于他们的领导能力有不同的心态，而这些未经检验的心态不可能缩小高层管理中的性别差距。那我们要如何看待失踪的33%并采取措施呢？对于女性来说，答案很明显：我们必须开始集中更多精力发展和展现那些我们已有的、能显示出我们是那种理解企业业务和发展走向以及自己定位的技能。这样，我们才能从中层管理向高层突破。我们不用等到中层管理才这样做。有一个生物技术公司的青年科学家利用她对失踪的33%的了解将财务影响数据编进了她做的一个项目更新报告里，然后获得了管理层极大的正面反馈。
en:So what this illustrates is thatas managers, whether we&#39;re women or men,we have mindsets about women and men,about careers in leadership,and these unexamined mindsetswon&#39;t close the gender gap at the top.So how do we take this ideaof the missing 33 percentand turn it into action?Well, for women, the answer is obvious:we have to begin to focus moreon developing and demonstratingthe skills we havethat show that we&#39;re people who understandour businesses, where they&#39;re headed,and our role in taking it there.That&#39;s what enables that breakthroughfrom middle managementto leadership at the top.But you don&#39;t have to be a middle manager to do this.One young scientist that works in a biotech firmused her insight about the missing 33 percentto weave financial impact datainto a project update she didand got tremendous positive feedbackfrom the managers in the room.
时间：11:00
zh-cn:我们不想将责任100%的压在女性肩膀上，这样做也不理智，原因如下：为了让公司达到战略性财务目标，主管们明白他们必须让所有人向同一个方向使劲。换句话说，用商业术语来说就是，我们必须要有战略一致性。主管们很清楚这一点，但是根据世界大型企业联合会的最新报告，只有37%的主管相信他们拥有战略一致性。所以有63%的组织，对于能不能达到他们的战略财务目标还存有疑问。想一下我刚才所说的，如果你有至少50%的中层管理没有收到明确的信息，不知道他们必须专注于业务和它的走向以及他们在其中扮演的角色，那么也就不必惊讶为什么对于战略一致性有信心的主管的比例会如此的低，这也是为什么他们需要别人的帮忙。对于董事会来说很期待在每年的会议上看到一定比例的女性主管。为什么呢？因为如果不是这样的话，那可能就是一个危险信号，说明他们组织的一致性不如预期理想。对于首席执行官来说，这一比例也很重要，如果他们听到类似于“她没有足够的商业经验”这样的评论，那么就要问“我们要怎样去解决这个问题？”对于人事主管们来说确保失踪的33%被适当地强调很重要，而对于处在管理职位上的女性和男性来说审视我们对于女性和男性、事业和成功所持有的不同心态也很重要，确保我们是在为所有人创造一个平等的竞争环境。
en:So we don&#39;t want to put 100 percentof the responsibility on women&#39;s shoulders,nor would it be wise to do so, and here&#39;s why:In order for companies to achievetheir strategic financial goals,executives understand that they have to haveeveryone pulling in the same direction.In other words, the term we use in business is,we have to have strategic alignment.And executives know this very well,and yet only 37 percent,according to a recent Conference Board report,believe that they have thatstrategic alignment in place.So for 63 percent of organizations,achieving their strategic financial goalsis questionable.And if you think about what I&#39;ve just shared,that you have situations where at least 50 percentof your middle managershaven&#39;t received clear messagingthat they have to become focused on the business,where it&#39;s headed, and their role in taking it there,it&#39;s not surprising that that percentageof executives who are confident about alignmentis so low,which is why there are other peoplewho have a role to play in this.It&#39;s important for directors on boardsto expect from their executivesproportional pools of women when they sit downonce a year for their succession discussions.Why? Because if they aren&#39;t seeing that,it could be a red flagthat their organization isn&#39;t as alignedas it could potentially be.It&#39;s important for CEOsto also expect these proportional pools,and if they hear comments like,&quot;Well, she doesn&#39;t haveenough business experience,&quot;ask the question,&quot;What are we going to do about that?&quot;It&#39;s important for H.R. executivesto make sure that the missing 33 percentis appropriately emphasized,and it&#39;s important for women and menwho are in management positionsto examine the mindsets we holdabout women and men, about careers and success,to make sure we are creating a level playing fieldfor everybody.
时间：13:07
zh-cn:让我用汤娅故事的最新章节来结束今天的演讲。2个月前，汤娅给我发了邮件，她说她当时面试了一个新职位，面试中，他们考察了她的商业才智和她对于行业的战略观点，她说她很高兴地向我报告现在她有了一个新职位，直接向公司首席信息官报告。所以对你们中的一些人来说，失踪的33%是一个让你付诸行动的想法，并希望对你们所有人都有所帮助，你会看到它是一个值得传播的想法，它可以帮助组织提高效率，帮助女性获得升迁，以及帮助缩小高层管理中的性别差距。
en:So let me close with the latest chapterin Tonya&#39;s story.Tonya emailed me two months ago,and she said that she had beeninterviewed for a new position,and during the interview, they probedabout her business acumenand her strategic insights into the industry,and she said that she was so happy to reportthat now she has a new positionreporting directly to the chief information officerat her company.So for some of you, the missing 33 percentis an idea for you to put into action,and I hope that for all of you,you will see it as an idea worth spreadingin order to help organizations be more effective,to help women create careers that soar,and to help close the gender gap at the top.
时间：13:51
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：13:53
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
