时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我以研究一种叫做矮黑猩猩（Bonobo）的动物为生。多数时候我很快乐，因为我觉得它们是地球上最幸福的物种。一个不为人知的秘密。它们仅生活在刚果。由于它们特殊的性行为，往往不被动物园饲养。因为（性行为）太像人了大多数人难以接受。
en:I work with a species called &quot;Bonobo.&quot;And I&#39;m happy most of the time,because I think this is the happiest species on the planet.It&#39;s kind of a well-kept secret.This species lives only in the Congo.And they&#39;re not in too many zoos, because of their sexual behavior.Their sexual behavior is too human-likefor most of us to be comfortable with.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:但是⋯⋯
en:But —
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:它们有很多值得我们学习的地方，矮黑猩猩的社会是平等和相互关心的。性行为不仅限于生活的一部分。在各个方面（性行为）都有影响。可以用来交流，和解决争端。也许在人类历史的某个阶段，我们逐渐把生活分成不通的部分。我们将世界分门别类。任何事物有其特定的位置。但我不认为人类从来就是如此。
en:actually, we have a lot to learn from them, because they&#39;re a veryegalitarian society and they&#39;re a very empathetic society.And sexual behavior is not confined to one aspect of their lifethat they sort of set aside.It permeates their entire life.And it&#39;s used for communication.And it&#39;s used for conflict resolution.And I think perhaps somewhere in our history we sort of,divided our lives up into lots of parts.We divided our world up with lots of categories.And so everything sort of has a place that it has to fit.But I don&#39;t think that we were that way initially.
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:很多人认为动物的世界（行为）是由基因决定的，而我们人类是非常特别的。也许是我们的逻辑思维能力。也许因为（人类）大脑的与众不同他们才有了语言能力。因为（人类）大脑的与众不同他们才发明了工具和数学。我并不认同，塔斯马尼亚人（澳洲土人）到了17世纪仍不会使用火。他们没有石器。据我所知，他们也没有音乐。把他们与矮黑猩猩相比，矮黑猩猩毛更多一些。（矮黑猩猩）还没完全直立。但是却有很多相似之处。看看我们的文化，我们大概理解我们是如何走到今天的。我不认为这是生物学决定的，尽管大多数人是这么想的，但我不认同。
en:There are many people who think that the animal world is hard-wiredand that there&#39;s something very, very special about man.Maybe it&#39;s his ability to have causal thought.Maybe it&#39;s something special in his brainthat allows him to have language.Maybe it&#39;s something special in his brainthat allows him to make tools or to have mathematics.Well, I don&#39;t know. There were Tasmanians who were discoveredaround the 1600s and they had no fire.They had no stone tools.To our knowledge they had no music.So when you compare them to the Bonobo,the Bonobo is a little hairier.He doesn&#39;t stand quite as upright.But there are a lot of similarities.And I think that as we look at culture,we kind of come to understandhow we got to where we are.And I don&#39;t really think it&#39;s in our biology;I think we&#39;ve attributed it to our biology,but I don&#39;t really think it&#39;s there.
时间： 2:32
zh-cn:所以在这里，我向你介绍一种叫做矮黑猩猩的动物。它是Kanzi。它是一只矮黑猩猩。它现在生活在乔治亚州的森林里。它的母亲来自非洲丛林。它（Tanzi的母亲）大约在青春期来到（乔治亚），六七岁左右。
en:So what I want to do now is introduce youto a species called the Bonobo.This is Kanzi.He&#39;s a Bonobo.Right now, he&#39;s in a forest in Georgia.His mother originally came from a forest in Africa.And she came to us when she was just at puberty,about six or seven years of age.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:右边是一只矮黑猩猩，左边是一只黑猩猩。很显然，黑猩猩直立行走起来更困难一些。尽管矮黑猩猩比我们矮，手臂也更长，但和我们一样站得更直。这是矮黑猩猩和类人猿的比较。你可以看到，它们没什么区别，矮黑猩猩的姿势，和类人猿的姿势。它们转向我们，可以看到类人猿的骨盆更平滑不用那么左右旋转。所以两足行走更方便。它（他）们四个在一起。
en:Now this shows a Bonobo on your right,and a chimpanzee on your left.Clearly, the chimpanzee has a little bit harder time of walking.The Bonobo, although shorter than us and their arms still longer,is more upright, just as we are.This shows the Bonobo compared to an australopithecine like Lucy.As you can see, there&#39;s not a lot of differencebetween the way a Bonobo walksand the way an early australopithecine would have walked.As they turn toward us you&#39;ll seethat the pelvic area of early australopithecines is a little flatterand doesn&#39;t have to rotate quite so much from side to side.So the — the bipedal gait is a little easier.And now we see all four.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:记录片：野生矮黑猩猩生活在中非被刚果河环绕的丛林中。40米高的热带植物密集地生长在这个地区。一位日本科学家最先在野外仔细地观察和学习矮黑猩猩。这是30年前了。矮黑猩猩比黑猩猩略小。苗条的矮黑猩猩是天生温和的生物。长期、细致的研究（科学家）对它们的发现越来越多。矮黑猩猩常常直立行走是发现之一。更重要的是它们能够在远距离行走中保持直立。我们先去给Austin打个招呼，然后去A frame。
en:Video: Narrator: The wild Bonobo lives in central Africa, in the jungleencircled by the Congo River.Canopied trees as tall as 40 meters, 130 feet,grow densely in the area.It was a Japanese scientistwho first undertook serious field studies of the Bonobo,almost three decades ago.Bonobos are built slightly smaller than the chimpanzee.Slim-bodied, Bonobos are by nature very gentle creatures.Long and careful studies have reported many new findings on them.One discovery was that wild Bonobos often walk bidpedally.What&#39;s more, they are able to walk upright for long distances.Susan Savage-Rumbaugh (video): Let&#39;s go say hello to Austin first and then go to the A frame.
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:Susan Savage-Rumbaugh: Kanzi和我在树林里。你在这里看到的都不是训练而来的。没有任何作假。都是自然发生的情景被日本NHK电视台用胶片记录下来。我们有8只矮黑猩猩。
en:SS: This is Kanzi and I, in the forest.None of the things you will see in this particular video are trained.None of them are tricks.They all happened to be captured on film spontaneously,by NHK of Japan.We have eight Bonobos.
时间： 5:13
zh-cn:记录片：看看这都是给我们营火准备的。
en:Video: Look at all this stuff that&#39;s here for our campfire.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:Susan：我们的研究中心是一整个家庭。
en:SS: An entire family at our research centre.
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:记录片：去帮忙找些柴火？好。我们还要更多的柴火。你要的话，我口袋里有个打火机。那是个马蜂窝。你可以拿出来。但愿我是有个打火机。你可以用打火机点火。
en:Video: You going to help get some sticks?Good.We need more sticks, too.I have a lighter in my pocket if you need one.That&#39;s a wasps&#39; nest.You can get it out.I hope I have a lighter.You can use the lighter to start the fire.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:Susan：Kanzi对火很感兴趣。没有打火机，它还不能点火，但我觉得它要是看到别人做，也许会学会不依靠打火机生活。它在学如何不让火灭掉。它在学怎么用火，通过观察我们用火做什么。
en:SS: So Kanzi is very interested in fire.He doesn&#39;t do it yet without a lighter,but I think if he saw someone do it, he might be able to do —make a fire without a lighter.He&#39;s learning about how to keep a fire going.He&#39;s learning the uses for a fire,just by watching what we do with fire.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:（笑声）（烤棉花糖是美国人野营必须的项目）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:29
zh-cn:这是矮黑猩猩的笑脸。这是它们高兴时发出的声音。
en:This is a smile on the face of a Bonobo.These are happy vocalizations.
时间： 6:33
zh-cn:记录片：你很开心你更喜欢这部分。你得把水浇在火上。看到水没有？做的好。
en:Video: You&#39;re happy.You&#39;re very happy about this part.You&#39;ve got to put some water on the fire. You see the water?Good job.
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:Susan：忘了把背包背面关上了。它喜欢把东西背来背去。
en:SS: Forgot to zip up the back half of his backpack.But he likes to carry things from place to place.
时间： 6:56
zh-cn:记录片：Austin，我听到你说Austin。
en:Video: Austin, I hear you saying &quot;Austin.&quot;
时间： 6:58
zh-cn:Susan：它可以远距离和其他矮黑猩猩交流，超过我们的听觉距离。这是它的妹妹。它第一次试着开高尔夫车。
en:SS: He talks to other Bonobos at the lab, long-distance,farther than we can hear.This is his sister.This is her first time to try to drive a golf cart.
时间： 7:11
zh-cn:记录片：再见。
en:Video: Goodbye.
时间： 7:13
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:Susan：它会用油门、刹车，但还不会打方向盘。它由倒车改为前进，死抓着方向盘，而不是转动它。
en:SS: She&#39;s got the pedals down, but not the wheel.She switches from reverse to forwardand she holds onto the wheel, rather than turns it.
时间： 7:28
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:和我们一样，它知道镜子里是它自己。
en:Like us, she knows that that individual in the mirror is her.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 7:40
zh-cn:记录片：让矮黑猩猩在人和矮黑猩猩共同的环境下长大，同时记录它们二十年来的成长，科学家在研究成长环境
en:Video: Narrator: By raising Bonobos in a culture that is both Bonobo and human,and documenting their development across two decades,scientists are exploring how cultural forces
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 7:53
zh-cn:是否在人类进化过程中起了重要作用。
en:may have operated during human evolution.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:它的名字是Nyota。在斯瓦希里语里是猩猩的意思。
en:His name is Nyota.It means &quot;star&quot; in Swahili.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间： 8:12
zh-cn:Panbanisha试着用剪刀给Nyota理发。野外成年的矮黑猩猩常常给它们的后代理毛。Panbanish在用剪刀，而不是手给Nyota理毛。很了不起。这样仔细的工作，需要对手细微得控制。Nyota想学Panbanisha用剪刀。想到Nyota可能会伤到自己，Panbanish，像任何人类的母亲，小心翼翼地把剪刀拿走。
en:Panbanisha is trying to give Nyota a haircut with a pair of scissors.In the wild, the parent Bonobo is known to groom its offspring.Here Panbanisha uses scissors, instead of her hands,to groom Nyota.Very impressive.Subtle maneuvering of the hands is requiredto perform delicate tasks like this.Nyota tries to imitate Panbanisha by using the scissors himself.Realizing that Nyota might get hurt,Panbanisha, like any human mother,carefully tugs to get the scissors back.
时间： 9:23
zh-cn:它现在可以打开坚韧的兽皮。
en:He can now cut through tough animal hide.
时间： 9:27
zh-cn:Susan：Kanzi学会了使用石器。
en:SS: Kanzi&#39;s learned to make stone tools.
时间： 9:29
zh-cn:记录片：Kanzi正在给自己做工具，就像我们的祖先250万年前一样－两手拿着石头互相敲击。它学会了用两只手瞄准了砸，它可以做出更大、更锋利的锋刃。Kanzi选了一块它认为锋利的石器。即使用刀，坚韧的兽皮也很难划开。Kanzi用的石头非常坚硬适用与制造石器，但不易于操作，需要较高的技巧。Kanzi用的石头来自埃塞俄比亚的Gona和我们非洲祖先使用的一模一样。250万年前。这些是Kanzi用的石头和制作的石器。平滑的锋刃和刀刃一样。和我们祖先所使用的石器相比，Kanzi的和它们非常相像。
en:Video: Kanzi now makes his tools,just as our ancestors may have made them,two-and-a-half million years ago —by holding the rocks in both hands, to strike one against the other.He has learned that by using both handsand aiming his glancing blows,he can make much larger, sharper flakes.Kanzi chooses a flake he thinks is sharp enough.The tough hide is difficult to cut, even with a knife.The rock that Kanzi is using is extremely hardand ideal for stone tool making, but difficult to handle,requiring great skill.Kanzi&#39;s rock is from Gona, Ethiopiaand is identical to that used by our African ancestorstwo-and-a-half million years ago.These are the rocks Kanzi usedand these are the flakes he made.The flat sharp edges are like knife blades.Compare them to the tools our ancestors used;they bear a striking resemblance to Kanzi&#39;s.
时间：10:46
zh-cn:Panbanisha很想去树林散步。它不停地向窗外望着。
en:Panbanisha is longing to go for a walk in the woods.She keeps staring out the window.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:Susan：当初我们并不认为它们（矮黑猩猩）能做到。
en:SS: This is — let me show you something we didn&#39;t think they would do.
时间：10:57
zh-cn:记录片：Panbanisha已经没有外出很多天了。
en:Video: For several days now, Panbanisha has not been outside.
时间：11:03
zh-cn:Susan：我一般会介绍（它们的）语言。
en:SS: I normally talk about language.
时间：11:05
zh-cn:记录片：Panbanisha做了件我们没有预想到的。
en:Video: Then Panbanisha does something unexpected.
时间：11:08
zh-cn:Susan：但因为我被告知不能像往常按部就班，我还没告诉你这些猿类有语言文字。象形文字。
en:SS: But since I&#39;m advised not to do what I normally do,I haven&#39;t told you that these apes have language.It&#39;s a geometric language.
时间：11:15
zh-cn:记录片：它拿起一根粉笔开始在地上笔画。它在写什么？
en:Video: She takes a piece of chalkand begins writing something on the floor.What is she writing?
时间：11:26
zh-cn:Susan：它同时还用它的嗓子发出对应的声音。
en:SS: She&#39;s also saying the name of that, with her voice.
时间：11:30
zh-cn:记录片：它走到Susan面前又开始写。
en:Video: Now she comes up to Dr. Sue and starts writing again.
时间：11:33
zh-cn:Susan：这是它键盘上的符号。
en:SS: These are her symbols on her keyboard.
时间：11:36
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：11:37
zh-cn:它按键盘时会发出声音
en:They speak when she touches them.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:记录片：Panbanisha在告诉Susan它想去哪儿。A型框代表树林里的小屋。比较一下粉笔笔迹和键盘上的符号。Panbanisha开始在林地上笔画。很好、很漂亮Panbanisha。
en:Video: Panbanisha is communicating to Dr. Sue where she wants to go.&quot;A frame&quot; represents a hut in the woods.Compare the chalk writing with the lexigram on the keyboard.Panbanisha began writing the lexigrams on the forest floor.SS (video): Very nice. Beautiful, Panbanisha.
时间：12:10
zh-cn:Susan：开始我们并不知道它在做什么，直到我们站在远处转过来看。
en:SS: At first we didn&#39;t really realize what she was doing,until we stood back and looked at it and rotated it.
时间：12:16
zh-cn:记录片：这个符号代表树林里的一个地方。这条曲线和键盘上的符号很像。接着Panbanisha写的下一个符号代表颈圈。它（符号）代表Panbanisha外出必须戴上颈圈。
en:Video: This lexigram also refers to a place in the woods.The curved line is very similar to the lexigram.The next symbol Panbanisha writes represents &quot;collar.&quot;It indicates the collar that Panbanisha must wear when she goes out.
时间：12:33
zh-cn:Susan：这是研究机构要求的。
en:SS: That&#39;s an institutional requirement.
时间：12:36
zh-cn:记录片：这个符号并不像别的明显，但可以看出Panbanisha试图画一道曲线和几条直线。研究人员在Panbanisha说话时用粉笔写下对应的符号。Panbinisha观察着。很快它也开始笔画。矮黑猩猩的能力震惊了全世界的科学家。它们（能力）是如何发展的？
en:Video: This symbol is not as clear as the others,but one can see Panbanisha is trying to produce a curved lineand several straight lines.Researchers began to record what Panbanisha said,by writing lexigrams on the floor with chalk.Panbanisha watched.Soon she began to write as well.The Bonobo&#39;s abilities have stunned scientists around the world.How did they develop?
时间：13:06
zh-cn:Susan：我们发现让矮黑猩猩学会语言最重要的不是教它们。而是在它们周围使用语言。因为推进语言发展的最重要的是理解身边相关的人在说些什么。当你有了这样的能力，语言就自然而然的产生了。所以我们希望创造一个环境让矮黑猩猩喜爱所有和它们有关的人。我们想要建立一个环境让它们觉得有趣，让每一个工作人员都是对它们有意义的人。这样的环境让意料不到潜能在Kanzi和Panbanisha身上充分发挥。
en:SS (video): We found that the most important thingfor permitting Bonobos to acquire language is not to teach them.It&#39;s simply to use language around them,because the driving force in language acquisitionis to understand what others, that are important to you, are saying to you.Once you have that capacity,the ability to produce languagecomes rather naturally and rather freely.So we want to create an environment in which Bonobos,like all of the individuals with whom they are interacting —we want to create an environment in which they have fun,and an environment in which the othersare meaningful individuals for them.Narrator: This environment brings out unexpected potentialin Kanzi and Panbanisha.
时间：14:03
zh-cn:Panbanisha很喜欢吹它的口琴，直到一岁的Nyota把口琴抢走。它很好奇地看着母亲的嘴里。它是不是在找（口琴的）声音是从哪儿来得呢？Susan认为这样的好奇心应得到充分的发展。这次Panbanisha在弹电子琴。它不是被逼着学的，而是看到研究员弹琴后而来的兴致。
en:Panbanisha is enjoying playing her harmonica,until Nyota, now one year old, steals it.Then he peers eagerly into his mother&#39;s mouth.Is he looking for where the sound came from?Dr. Sue thinks it&#39;s important to allow such curiosity to flourish.This time Panbanisha is playing the electric piano.She wasn&#39;t forced to learn the piano;she saw a researcher play the instrument and took an interest.
时间：15:11
zh-cn:继续。继续。我在听。弹你刚刚弹得很快的那一段。对，就是那段。
en:Researcher: Go ahead. Go ahead. I&#39;m listening.Do that real fast part that you did. Yeah, that part.
时间：15:22
zh-cn:Kanzi在弹木琴，（它）用两只手热心地配合Susan的歌词。Kanzi和Panbanisha受到这样充满乐趣的环境的鼓励，渐渐发展出这些文化能力。
en:Narrator: Kanzi plays the xylophone;using both hands he enthusiastically accompanies Dr. Sue&#39;s singing.Kanzi and Panbanishaare stimulated by this fun-filled environment,which promotes the emergence of these cultural capabilities.
时间：15:42
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：15:52
zh-cn:OK，现在去吃怪物。抓住它们。别忘了吃樱桃。现在小心，离怪物远点儿。又可以吃怪物了。快追。现在得逃。快逃。快跑，跑。又可以吃它们了。追。哦不！做的好Kanzi。谢谢你。
en:Researcher: OK, now get the monsters. Get them.Take the cherries too.Now watch out, stay away from them now.Now you can chase them again. Time to chase them.Now you have to stay away. Get away.Run away. Run.Now we can chase them again. Go get them.Oh no!Good Kanzi. Very good. Thank you so much.
时间：16:30
zh-cn:无论是矮黑猩猩还是人类都无法想像这些。
en:Narrator: None of us, Bonobo or human, can possibly even imagine?
时间：16:43
zh-cn:Susan：我们有一个双物种的环境，叫做“泛猿类文化”我们学习如何更像它们。学习如何与它们交流，用很高的音调。我们发现野生矮黑猩猩应该是有语言能力的。同时，它们在学习成为我们（人类）。我们认为这并不是天生的，而是文化（环境）。所以我们分享工具、科技和语言，和另一个物种。
en:SS: So we have a bi-species environment, we call it a &quot;panhomoculture.&quot;We&#39;re learning how to become like them.We&#39;re learning how to communicate with them,in really high-pitched tones.We&#39;re learning that they probably have a language in the wild.And they&#39;re learning to become like us.Because we believe that it&#39;s not biology; it&#39;s culture.So we&#39;re sharing tools and technology and languagewith another species.
时间：17:11
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
