时间： 0:12
zh-cn:去年，我的三个家人在一次复仇的犯罪中，被残忍的杀害了。现在我站在这里，不用说是很困难的，但是我的弟弟迪亚，他的妻子尤瑟，和他的妹妹拉赞没有给我很多选择。我希望这个演讲结束，你们会给我一个选择，加入我，抵抗仇恨。
en:Last year,three of my family memberswere gruesomely murderedin a hate crime.It goes without sayingthat it&#39;s really difficultfor me to be here today,but my brother Deah,his wife Yusor,and her sister Razandon&#39;t give me much of a choice.I&#39;m hopeful that by the endof this talk you will make a choice,and join me in standing up against hate.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:2014年12月17号，我弟弟婚礼那天的早晨，他要我到他那儿，帮他整理头发，为婚礼的拍摄做准备。一个23岁，1米9，喜欢斯蒂芬库里的篮球爱好者，
en:It&#39;s December 27, 2014:the morning of my brother&#39;s wedding day.He asks me to come over and comb his hairin preparationfor his wedding photo shoot.A 23-year-old, six-foot-three basketball,particularly Steph Curry, fanatic —
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:56
zh-cn:一个准备走入社会的美国牙科学生。当迪亚和尤瑟跳了第一支舞。我从他的眼睛和她的欢乐里看到了爱情。我开始抑制不住自己的情绪。我走到了大厅后面，泪水夺眶而出。第二首歌结束了，他冲向我，把我埋入他的怀里，前后摇晃着我，即使在那个时候，一切都很吵杂，他跟我还是很协调。
en:An American kid in dental schoolready to take on the world.When Deah and Yusorhave their first dance,I see the love in his eyes,her reciprocated joy,and my emotions begin to overwhelm me.I move to the back of the halland burst into tears.And the second the song finishes playing,he beelines towards me,buries me into his armsand rocks me back and forth.Even in that moment,when everything was so distracting,he was attuned to me.
时间： 1:24
zh-cn:他搂着我的脸，说“苏赞，我到现在这样都是因为你。谢谢你所做的一切。我爱你。”
en:He cups my face and says,&quot;Suzanne,I am who I am because of you.Thank you for everything.I love you.&quot;
时间： 1:38
zh-cn:大约一个月后，我从北加州短暂回到家乡，最后一个晚上，我跑上楼到迪亚的房间，渴望想知道他结婚后的感觉，他带着男孩般的笑容说，“我非常开心，我爱她。她是一个很棒的女孩。”她是这样的。21岁的她刚刚被迪亚就读的UNC牙科学校录取。他们都很喜欢篮球，她希望以他们最喜欢队伍的一场NBA比赛开始他们的蜜月。洛杉矶湖人。看看这个动作。
en:About a month later, I&#39;m back homein North Carolina for a short visit,and on the last evening,I run upstairs to Deah&#39;s room,eager to find out how he&#39;s feelingbeing a newly married man.With a big boyish smile he says,&quot;I&#39;m so happy. I love her.She&#39;s an amazing girl.&quot;And she is.At just 21, she&#39;d recentlybeen accepted to join Deahat UNC dental school.She shared his love for basketball,and at her urging,they started their honeymoon offattending their favorite team of the NBA,the LA Lakers.I mean, check out that form.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:我永远不会忘记那个时刻，坐在他旁边，他沉浸在欢乐之中。我的弟弟，一个热爱篮球的孩子，变成了一个颇有成就的年轻人。他在牙科学校名列前茅，和尤瑟、拉赞参与了一个当地和国际的社区服务项目为了无家可归的人和难民，包括一个他们计划的牙科学术旅行，为了土耳其的叙利亚难民。
en:I&#39;ll never forget that momentsitting there with him —how free he was in his happiness.My littler brother,a basketball-obsessed kid,had become and transformedinto an accomplished young man.He was at the topof his dental school class,and alongside Yusor and Razan,was involved in local and internationalcommunity service projectsdedicated to the homeless and refugees,including a dental relief tripthey were planningfor Syrian refugees in Turkey.
时间： 2:45
zh-cn:拉赞只有19岁，作为一个建筑工程系学生，用她的创造力服务于身边的人，给当地无家可归的人们制作关怀包裹，和其他项目。他们是这样的。
en:Razan, at just 19,used her creativityas an architectural engineering studentto serve those around her,making care packagesfor the local homeless,among other projects.That is who they were.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:那个晚上，我站在那里，我深呼吸，看着迪亚说：“我从来没有比现在更为你感到骄傲。”他把我搂入怀抱，拥抱我并道晚安，第二个早上我没有叫醒他就动身返回旧金山了。这是我最后一次拥抱他。
en:Standing there that night,I take a deep breathand look at Deah and tell him,&quot;I have never been more proud of youthan I am in this moment.&quot;He pulls me into his tall frame,hugs me goodnight,and I leave the next morningwithout waking himto go back to San Francisco.That is the last time I ever hug him.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:十天后，我在旧金山医院值班，我收到了很多吊唁的短信。疑惑中，我给父亲打了电话，他平静地说，“在教堂山迪亚的社区发生了一起枪击案，现在被封锁了，这是我知道的全部。”我挂断电话，迅速上网搜索了”教堂山枪击“，出现了一条新闻，是这样的：“三人被从身后击中，被确定死亡。”冥冥之中我知道。我摔下椅子，晕倒在冰冷的医院地板上，哭泣着。
en:Ten days later, I&#39;m on callat San Francisco General Hospitalwhen I receive a barrage of vaguetext messages expressing condolences.Confused, I call my father,who calmly intones,&quot;There&#39;s been a shootingin Deah&#39;s neighborhood in Chapel Hill.It&#39;s on lock-down. That&#39;s all we know.&quot;I hang up and quickly Google,&quot;shooting in Chapel Hill.&quot;One hit comes up.Quote:&quot;Three people were shotin the back of the headand confirmed dead on the scene.&quot;Something in me just knows.I fling out of my chair and faintonto the gritty hospital floor,wailing.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:我带着哭红的眼睛到了洛杉矶，盲目和迷茫。我走进儿时的家，晕倒在父母的怀抱里，抽泣着。我跑进迪亚的房间，像我往常一样，寻找他，却只找到了一个永远不会被填满的空洞。
en:I take the first red-eyeout of San Francisco,numb and disoriented.I walk into my childhood homeand faint into my parents&#39; arms,sobbing.I then run up to Deah&#39;s roomas I did so many times before,just looking for him,only to find a voidthat will never be filled.
时间： 4:14
zh-cn:调查和尸检终于揭示事情的经过。迪亚刚刚下了从学校的巴士。拉赞拜访他家，和尤瑟在他家吃晚饭，当他们开始吃晚饭的时候，他们听到敲门声，当迪亚开门的时候，那个邻居开始朝他连开数枪，根据911的电话记录，有人听到女孩尖叫。那个男人走向厨房，向尤瑟的臀部开了一枪，使她无法动弹。他从后面接近她，把枪口对着她的头，一颗子弹撕裂了她的脑部。他又转向尖叫的拉赞，像死刑似的，一颗子弹射入了她的脑后，杀了她。在他出去的路上，他朝迪亚嘴里射了最后一枪，总共八颗子弹，两颗在头部，两颗在他胸部，剩下的再他的四肢。
en:Investigation and autopsy reportseventually revealedthe sequence of events.Deah had just gottenoff the bus from class,Razan was visiting for dinner,already at home with Yusor.As they began to eat,they heard a knock on the door.When Deah opened it,their neighbor proceededto fire multiple shots at him.According to 911 calls,the girls were heard screaming.The man turned towards the kitchenand fired a single shot into Yusor&#39;s hip,immobilizing her.He then approached her from behind,pressed the barrel of his gunagainst her head,and with a single bullet,lacerated her midbrain.He then turned towards Razan,who was screaming for her life,and, execution-style, with a single bulletto the back of the head,killed her.On his way out,he shot Deah one last time —a bullet in the mouth —for a total of eight bullets:two lodged in the head,two in his chestand the rest in his extremities.
时间： 5:20
zh-cn:迪亚，尤瑟和拉赞在一个本应该安全的地方——他们的家被杀害，几个月来，这个男人一直在骚扰他们，敲他们家的门，有时炫耀他的枪。他的脸书充满了反宗教的推文。尤瑟尤其感觉被他威胁，在她搬进去的时候，他告诉尤瑟和她的母亲他不喜欢她们的长相。尤瑟的母亲告诉她善待她的邻居，当他熟悉她们后，他会知道她们是怎样的人。我想我们都对仇恨如此麻木，以至于我们想象不到会有致命的报复。
en:Deah, Yusor and Razan were executedin a place that was meantto be safe: their home.For months, this manhad been harassing them:knocking on their door,brandishing his gunon a couple of occasions.His Facebook was clutteredwith anti-religion posts.Yusor felt particularly threatened by him.As she was moving in,he told Yusor and her momthat he didn&#39;t like the way they looked.In response, Yusor&#39;s mom told herto be kind to her neighbor,that as he got to know them,he&#39;d see them for who they were.I guess we&#39;ve all becomeso numb to the hatredthat we couldn&#39;t have ever imaginedit turning into fatal violence.
时间： 6:04
zh-cn:那个谋杀我弟弟的男人在谋杀后投案自首，说他杀死了三个孩子，死刑般的，因为一个停车位的争执。那个早上警察公布了一个未完善的声明，没有质疑或者进一步的调查。结果并不是停车位争执，根本没有争吵，没有侵犯。但是伤害已经完成。24小时的媒体宣传，“停车位争执”这个词已经广泛流传。
en:The man who murdered my brotherturned himself in to the policeshortly after the murders,saying he killed three kids,execution-style,over a parking dispute.The police issued a prematurepublic statement that morning,echoing his claimswithout bothering to question itor further investigate.It turns out there was no parking dispute.There was no argument.No violation.But the damage was already done.In a 24-hour media cycle,the words &quot;parking dispute&quot; had alreadybecome the go-to sound bite.
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:我坐在我弟弟的床上，回忆他说的话，他对我说过的话带着那么多的爱，“我到现在这样都是因为你。”就是这句话使我战胜悲伤，并表明我的意见。我不能让我家人的死贬低到几乎不在本地新闻讨论的类别。他们被他们的邻居所谋杀，因为他们的信仰，因为一件他们用来遮蔽他们头发的衣服，因为他们明显是穆斯林。
en:I sit on my brother&#39;s bedand remember his words,the words he gave meso freely and with so much love,&quot;I am who I am because of you.&quot;That&#39;s what it takes for meto climb through my crippling griefand speak out.I cannot let my family&#39;s deathsbe diminished to a segmentthat is barely discussed on local news.They were murdered by their neighborbecause of their faith,because of a piece of cloththey chose to don on their heads,because they were visibly Muslim.
时间： 7:12
zh-cn:那时候我感觉到的愤怒，是如果角色反转，一个阿拉伯穆斯林或者穆斯林长相的人死刑似的在他们家杀害了三个白人美国大学生，我们会怎么称这件事？恐怖袭击。当白人在美国犯罪，他们是独行侠，精神异常，或者因停车位争吵。我知道我一定要为我家人发声，我做了我唯一知道的事情：我向我在社交媒体里认识的所有人发了一条脸书消息。
en:Some of the rage I felt at the timewas that if roles were reversed,and an Arab, Muslimor Muslim-appearing personhad killed three white Americancollege students execution-style,in their home,what would we have called it?A terrorist attack.When white men commitacts of violence in the US,they&#39;re lone wolves,mentally illor driven by a parking dispute.I know that I have to givemy family voice,and I do the only thing I know how:I send a Facebook messageto everyone I know in media.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:几个小时后，混乱的家中充满了朋友和家人，我们的邻居尼尔来了，坐在我父母的身边，并问：“我能做什么？”尼尔在新闻界有超过二十年的经验，但是他表示他没有能力担任一个记者，但是作为一个希望帮助的邻居，我问他他觉我们该做什么，来面对当地媒体访谈请求的炮击。他提出在当地社区中心开一个媒体发布会，到现在我都不知道怎么感谢他。“就告诉我什么时候，我会让所有新闻频道出席，”他说。
en:A couple of hours later,in the midst of a chaotic houseoverflowing with friends and family,our neighbor Neal comes over,sits down next to my parentsand asks, &quot;What can I do?&quot;Neal had over two decadesof experience in journalism,but he makes it clear that he&#39;s notthere in his capacity as journalist,but as a neighbor who wants to help.I ask him what he thinks we should do,given the bombardmentof local media interview requests.He offers to set up a press conferenceat a local community center.Even now I don&#39;t havethe words to thank him.&quot;Just tell me when, and I&#39;ll haveall the news channels present,&quot; he said.
时间： 8:31
zh-cn:他为我们做了我们做不到的事情，在极度悲伤之中。我做了发布会，穿着前个晚上的手术服。谋杀发生后的24小时内，我在CNN上被安德森库伯采访。第二天，主要的报纸包括纽约时报、芝加哥论坛报发布了关于迪亚，尤瑟和拉赞的事情，让我们能够说出实情真相，并向主流媒体呼吁对反穆斯林仇恨的关注。
en:He did for us what wecould not do for ourselvesin a moment of devastation.I delivered the press statement,still wearing scrubsfrom the previous night.And in under 24 hours from the murders,I&#39;m on CNN being interviewedby Anderson Cooper.The following day, major newspapers —including the New York Times,Chicago Tribune —published stories about Deah,Yusor and Razan,allowing us to reclaim the narrativeand call attention the mainstreamingof anti-Muslim hatred.
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:这几天，感觉像是伊斯兰恐惧症是一个可以接受的偏执行为。我们只能带着微笑接受。令人讨厌的注视，当登上一架飞机时明显的恐惧，99%在机场会发生的任意的搜身。
en:These days,it feels like Islamophobiais a socially acceptable form of bigotry.We just have to put up with it and smile.The nasty stares,the palpable fear when boarding a plane,the random pat downs at airportsthat happen 99 percent of the time.
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:还不止这样。我们还有政客削弱我们的政治和经济利益。在美国，我们有像唐纳德特朗普这样的总统候选人，呼吁登记美国穆斯林，禁止穆斯林移民和难民进入国家。这并不奇怪，仇恨犯罪随选举而发生。
en:It doesn&#39;t stop there.We have politicians reaping politicaland financial gains off our backs.Here in the US,we have presidential candidateslike Donald Trump,casually calling to registerAmerican Muslims,and ban Muslim immigrants and refugeesfrom entering this country.It is no coincidence that hate crimes risein parallel with election cycles.
时间： 9:45
zh-cn:几个月前，哈立德贾巴拉，一个黎巴嫩裔美国基督教徒，在俄克拉荷马被他的邻居谋杀，一个称他为“肮脏的阿拉伯人”的男人。这个男人在尝试开车撞哈立德母亲后，只被囚禁了8个月。可能你不知道哈立德的事情，因为他没上国家新闻。至少我们能做的，就是称其为仇恨犯罪。至少我们能做的，就是谈论它，因为暴力和仇恨不会凭空发生。
en:Just a couple months ago, Khalid Jabara,a Lebanese-American Christian,was murdered in Oklahomaby his neighbor —a man who called him a &quot;filthy Arab.&quot;This man was previously jailedfor a mere 8 months,after attempting run overKhalid&#39;s mother with his car.Chances are you haven&#39;t heardKhalid&#39;s story,because it didn&#39;t make itto national news.The least we can do is call it what it is:a hate crime.The least we can do is talk about it,because violence and hatreddoesn&#39;t just happen in a vacuum.
时间：10:22
zh-cn:回到工作后不久，我在医院照顾老人，当我的病人之一看着我的同事，在她身边打手势，并说：“圣博娜迪诺。”暗指最近的恐怖袭击。我刚刚因为伊斯兰恐惧症失去了三位家人，刚刚在活动中倡导了如何面对这种微小挑衅，但是，沉默。我感到沮丧，屈辱。
en:Not long after coming back to work,I&#39;m the senior on rounds in the hospital,when one of my patientslooks over at my colleague,gestures around her faceand says, &quot;San Bernardino,&quot;referencing a recent terrorist attack.Here I am having just lost threefamily members to Islamophobia,having been a vocal advocatewithin my programon how to deal with such microaggressions,and yet —silence.I was disheartened.Humiliated.
时间：10:50
zh-cn:几天后，我照顾同一个病人，她看着我，并说：“你的人正在洛杉矶杀人。”我期待地望向身边，再一次，沉默。我意识到，我需要再为自己发声，我坐在她的床上温柔地问她，“我是不是一直以尊重和友好对待你？我是不是一直细心地照顾你？”她低下头，意识到她说的是错的，在整个团队前，她道歉并说，“我应该考虑的更周到一点，我是一个墨西哥裔美国人，我也经常受到这种对待。”
en:Days later rounding on the same patient,she looks at me and says,&quot;Your people are killingpeople in Los Angeles.&quot;I look around expectantly.Again:silence.I realize that yet again,I have to speak up for myself.I sit on her bed and gently ask her,&quot;Have I ever done anythingbut treat you with respect and kindness?Have I done anything but giveyou compassionate care?&quot;She looks down and realizeswhat she said was wrong,and in front of the entire team,she apologizes and says,&quot;I should know better.I&#39;m Mexican-American.I receive this kindof treatment all the time.&quot;
时间：11:34
zh-cn:我们中的很多人每天都会受到微小的挑衅，可能你经历过微小的挑衅，因为你的种族，性别，性取向，或者宗教信仰。我们都曾经处在一种情况中，就是我们目击了一些错误的事情，却不说出来。我们可能在那个时候不知道如何回答，我们可能甚至不知道我们的潜在歧视，我们都可以同意暴力是无法接受的，但当我们看到它的时候，我们却是沉默的，因为这让我们不舒服。
en:Many of us experiencemicroaggressions on a daily basis.Odds are you may have experienced it,whether for your race,gender,sexualityor religious beliefs.We&#39;ve all been in situationswhere we&#39;ve witnessed something wrongand didn&#39;t speak up.Maybe we weren&#39;t equippedwith the tools to respond in the moment.Maybe we weren&#39;t even awareof our own implicit biases.We can all agree that bigotryis unacceptable,but when we see it,we&#39;re silent,because it makes us uncomfortable.
时间：12:06
zh-cn:但是直面这种不舒服意味着你加入了团队。在美国可能有超过三百万的穆斯林。但是这只是1%的人口。马丁路德金曾说过，“最后，我们不会记得我们敌人所说的话，只会记得朋友的沉默。”
en:But stepping right into that discomfortmeans you are also steppinginto the ally zone.There may be over three millionMuslims in America.That&#39;s still just one percentof the total population.Martin Luther King once said,&quot;In the end,we will remember notthe words of our enemies,but the silence of our friends.&quot;
时间：12:32
zh-cn:所以是什么使邻居尼尔的团队关系那么深刻？几件事情。他作为一个关心的邻居，他也带来了他的专业知识和资源当情况需要的时候。其他人也做了一样的事情。拉丽莎霍金，作为在惠顿学院的第一个非裔美国人终身教授，戴着面纱，为了团结每天面对歧视的穆斯林女性。结果，她失去了工作。一个月内，她成为了弗吉尼亚大学的员工，她现在工作于多元化、种族、信仰和文化领域。
en:So what made my neighborNeal&#39;s allyship so profound?A couple of things.He was there as a neighbor who cared,but he was also bringing inhis professional expertise and resourceswhen the moment called for it.Others have done the same.Larycia Hawkins drew on her platformas the first tenured African-Americanprofessor at Wheaton Collegeto wear a hijab in solidaritywith Muslim women who facediscrimination every day.As a result, she lost her job.Within a month,she joined the facultyat the University of Virginia,where she now works on pluralism,race, faith and culture.
时间：13:11
zh-cn:Reddit的合伙创始人，亚历克西斯厄西尼亚，展示了不是所有的活跃团队都要很严肃。他参与支持一个15岁穆斯林女孩的任务在emoji中加入一个面纱。
en:Reddit cofounder, Alexis Ohanian,demonstrated that not all activeallyship needs to be so serious.He stepped up to supporta 15-year-old Muslim girl&#39;s missionto introduce a hijab emoji.
时间：13:23
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：13:25
zh-cn:一个简单的姿势，但却有着重要的潜意识的影响在平常化和人道主义化穆斯林，包括把其列为我们，而不是其他。女性主导杂志的主编，刚刚第一次把穆斯林面纱放在封面。这些都是很不同的例子关于人们使用他们的平台和资源在学术，科技和媒体，积极表达他们的团队精神。
en:It&#39;s a simple gesture,but it has a significantsubconscious impacton normalizing and humanizing Muslims,including the communityas a part of an &quot;us&quot;instead of an &quot;other.&quot;The editor in chiefof Women&#39;s Running magazinejust put the first hijabi to ever beon the cover of a US fitness magazine.These are all very different examplesof people who drew upontheir platforms and resourcesin academia, tech and media,to actively express their allyship.
时间：13:56
zh-cn:你能带来什么资源和技能？你愿意直面不舒服在你目击可恶的偏执行为时，说出你的意见？你会像尼尔那样吗？
en:What resources and expertisedo you bring to the table?Are you willing to stepinto your discomfortand speak up when you witnesshateful bigotry?Will you be Neal?
时间：14:08
zh-cn:许多邻居在这个故事出现。你，在你的社区，有一个穆斯林邻居，同事，或者你的孩子在学校的玩伴。帮助他们。让他们知道你在他们身边。这可能感觉很小，但是我向你保证会有所改变。
en:Many neighbors appeared in this story.And you, in your respective communities,all have a Muslim neighbor,colleagueor friend your child plays with at school.Reach out to them.Let them know you standwith them in solidarity.It may feel really small,but I promise you it makes a difference.
时间：14:28
zh-cn:没有事情会带回迪亚、尤瑟和拉赞。但当我们一起说出我们的心声这就是仇恨停止的时候。
en:Nothing will ever bring backDeah, Yusor and Razan.But when we raise our collective voices,that is when we stop the hate.
时间：14:37
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：14:38
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
