时间： 0:11
zh-cn:对于人类的大脑来说，什么是最特别的？我们为什么要研究其他的动物？而不是他们研究我们？有没有什么是人类大脑可以做的而其他的大脑不能做的？十年前，我对这些问题产生兴趣科学家认为他们知道大脑不同的组成部分即使那些都是基于一些非常小的证据，很多科学界认为所有的哺乳动物的大脑，包括人类的大脑是由同样的东西组成，一系列的神经元和大脑的大小总是成为成正比这个以为着，两个同样大小的大脑就看这两个，有大概400克，应该有同样数量的神经元如果我们说神经元是大脑功能信息处理的单位然后，这些两个大脑各自的拥有者应该有的相近的认知能力。然而，其中一个是黑猩猩，和另一种是一头母牛。现在也许牛有很丰富的精神生活，并且很聪明他们选择不会让我们意识到这一点，但我们吃他们。我想大多数人会同意相比于牛来说，黑猩猩具有更加复杂和细节，以及灵活的行为。所以这是第一个征兆显示&quot;所有的大脑的构成方式都是一样的&quot;不是特别正确的。
en:What is so special about the human brain?Why is it that we study other animalsinstead of them studying us?What does a human brain have or dothat no other brain does?When I became interestedin these questions about 10 years ago,scientists thought they knewwhat different brains were made of.Though it was based on very little evidence,many scientists thought that all mammalian brains,including the human brain,were made in the same way,with a number of neurons that was alwaysproportional to the size of the brain.This means that two brains of the same size,like these two, with a respectable 400 grams,should have similar numbers of neurons.Now, if neurons are the functionalinformation processing units of the brain,then the owners of these two brainsshould have similar cognitive abilities.And yet, one is a chimp,and the other is a cow.Now maybe cows have a really richinternal mental life and are so smartthat they choose not to let us realize it,but we eat them.I think most people will agreethat chimps are capable of much more complex,elaborate and flexible behaviors than cows are.So this is a first indication that the&quot;all brains are made the same way&quot; scenariois not quite right.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:我们不妨继续这个比喻如果所有的大脑由相同的方式组成你要将大脑大小不同的动物拿来做比较,大一点的大脑对于小一点的大脑来说应该具有等多的神经元，并且越大的大脑，它的主人应该更有认知能力。所以最大的脑应该具有最好的认知能力。这里有个坏消息要说：我们的大脑，不是最大的一个。看起来相当棘手。我们的大脑重量 1.2 和 1.5 公斤之间但大象脑子称之间四、 五公斤鲸鱼大脑可重达 9 公斤这就是为什么科学家们用来诉诸说我们的大脑肯定是非常特别地来解释我们的认知能力。它必须是真的非同寻常，一个例外情况。他们的大脑可能会更大，但我们的更好，并且我们的可以变得更加好，例如，在这似乎比它应该更大与很多大大脑皮层比我们应该有的对于我们的身体的大小。因此，这样将会给我们额外皮质去做更多有趣的事情，而不是只主管我的身体。这是因为大脑的大小通常遵循身体的大小。所以说这句话的主要原因就是我们的大脑已经比它应有的大小大出好多了其实是来自于比较我们自己和巨猿。大猩猩可以是比我们大两到三倍因此，他们的大脑也应该比我们的大但相反，它的大脑比我们的小。我们的大脑是比大猩猩脑大三倍。
en:But let&#39;s play along.If all brains were made the same wayand you were to compare animalswith brains of different sizes,larger brains should always have more neuronsthan smaller brains,and the larger the brain,the more cognitively able its owner should be.So the largest brain around should also bethe most cognitively able.And here comes the bad news:Our brain, not the largest one around.It seems quite vexing.Our brain weighs between 1.2 and 1.5 kilos,but elephant brains weigh between four and five kilos,and whale brains can weigh up to nine kilos,which is why scientists used to resort to sayingthat our brain must be specialto explain our cognitive abilities.It must be really extraordinary,an exception to the rule.Theirs may be bigger, but ours is better,and it could be better, for example,in that it seems larger than it should be,with a much larger cerebral cortexthan we should havefor the size of our bodies.So that would give us extra cortexto do more interesting thingsthan just operating the body.That&#39;s because the size of the brainusually follows the size of the body.So the main reason for saying thatour brain is larger than it should beactually comes from comparing ourselvesto great apes.Gorillas can be two to three times larger than we are,so their brains should also be larger than ours,but instead it&#39;s the other way around.Our brain is three times larger than a gorilla brain.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:人类的大脑似乎也很特别在于它使用的能源的量。虽然它的重量只有全身的2%，但是它单独使用你身体每天所需能量的25%2000卡路里里面的500卡路里仅仅只是为了让你的大脑的工作。
en:The human brain also seems specialin the amount of energy that it uses.Although it weighs only two percent of the body,it alone uses 25 percent of all the energythat your body requires to run per day.That&#39;s 500 calories out of a total of 2,000 calories,just to keep your brain working.
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:所以，人类的大脑已经比应有的大小大出很多了它消耗了更加多的能量，对于他应该消耗的来说所以它很特殊。这是这个故事开始让我感到疑惑。在生物学中，我们发现规则一般情况下，适用于所有的动物和生活那么为什么进化的规则应用到了其他生物，但不是我们？也许这个问题是一个基础的假设所有的大脑都是由相同的方式组成。也许两个大小相似的大脑实际上可以由数目不同的神经元组成。也许是一个非常大的大脑不一定需要具有更多的神经元对于一个更具规模适度的大脑。也许，相比于其他大脑来说，人类的大脑具有最多的神经元，无论其规模大小，尤其是在大脑皮质中。所以这对我来说成为了对于这个答案来说最重要的问题人类大脑有多少神经元和其他动物比较起来怎样？
en:So the human brain is larger than it should be,it uses much more energy than it should,so it&#39;s special.And this is where the story started to bother me.In biology, we look for rulesthat apply to all animals and to life in general,so why should the rules of evolutionapply to everybody else but not to us?Maybe the problem was with the basic assumptionthat all brains are made in the same way.Maybe two brains of a similar sizecan actually be made ofvery different numbers of neurons.Maybe a very large braindoes not necessarily have more neuronsthan a more modest-sized brain.Maybe the human brain actually has the most neuronsof any brain, regardless of its size,especially in the cerebral cortex.So this to me becamethe important question to answer:how many neurons does the human brain have,and how does that compare to other animals?
时间： 3:55
zh-cn:现在，您可能会听到或读到过我们有 1000 亿个神经元10 年前，我就问我的同事们他们是否知道这个数字是从哪里来的。但没人知道。我通过深入细致的研究文献试图找出该数字的原始参考但我找不到它。这似乎其实没有人去真正的数过人类大脑里面的神经元数量，或者其他任何的大脑里面神经元的数量。
en:Now, you may have heard or read somewherethat we have 100 billion neurons,so 10 years ago, I asked my colleaguesif they knew where this number came from.But nobody did.I&#39;ve been digging through the literaturefor the original reference for that number,and I could never find it.It seems that nobody had actually ever countedthe number of neurons in the human brain,or in any other brain for that matter.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:所以我想出了我自己的方式来统计大脑里面的细胞，它最重要的一个步骤是那大脑溶解在试剂里。它的工作方式：你带一个大脑或部分的大脑，让它溶化在洗涤剂里，洗涤剂会破坏细胞膜但保持细胞核不变，所以你最终会看到细胞核悬浮看起来像这样，像一碗清汤。这汤包含所有细胞核曾经是一个老鼠的大脑。现在，这个液体的魅力在于因为它是液体，可以摇晃它，并使这些细胞核在液体中均匀分布所以，现在通过在显微镜下观察只需四个或五个这种细胞核均匀分布的样本你可以数数原子核，并能够知道有多少脑细胞了。这样很简单，非常直接，并且，这样的速度也很快。所以我们使用了这种方法来计数神经元目前为止计数了几十个不同的物种，结果发现，所有的大脑是由不同的方式组成的。以啮齿类动物和灵长类动物为例：在大一些的啮齿类动物大脑里，神经元的平均尺寸在增加，所以，大脑非常迅速地膨胀尺寸增长比获得神经元更加快但灵长类动物的大脑得到神经元而不需要神经元平均尺寸增大这是一种非常经济的方法在你大脑里添加神经元结果是灵长类动物的大脑和啮齿动物相同大小的脑相比, 总有更多的神经元和大脑越大这种差异性將越來越大那么,我们的大脑又是如何呢?我们发现我们平均有860 亿个神经元其中有 160 亿个存在于大脑皮质里而且如果你认为大脑皮质是下列功能的基础，意识,逻辑和抽象推理，那么，这160 亿个神经元对大脑皮质来说是最重要的我想这是最简单的說明对于我们卓越的认知能力。但,就和 860 亿神经元的意义一样重要因为我们发现了大脑的大小和其神经元数目之间的关联是可以用数学模型来计算的我们可以计算出人类大脑如果被作成像是一个啮齿类动物的大脑会如何。所以，有着 860 亿神经元的啮齿类动物大脑将重 36 公斤。那是不可能的。巨大的大脑將会被它自己本身的重量所挤压，这个不可能的大脑將会适用于一个89吨的身体 。我不认为它看起来跟我们一样。
en:So I came up with my own wayto count cells in the brain,and it essentially consists ofdissolving that brain into soup.It works like this:You take a brain, or parts of that brain,and you dissolve it in detergent,which destroys the cell membranesbut keeps the cell nuclei intact,so you end up with a suspension of free nucleithat looks like this,like a clear soup.This soup contains all the nucleithat once were a mouse brain.Now, the beauty of a soup is that because it is soup,you can agitate it and make those nucleibe distributed homogeneously in the liquid,so that now by looking under the microscopeat just four or five samplesof this homogeneous solution,you can count nuclei, and therefore tellhow many cells that brain had.It&#39;s simple, it&#39;s straightforward,and it&#39;s really fast.So we&#39;ve used that method to count neuronsin dozens of different species so far,and it turns out that all brainsare not made the same way.Take rodents and primates, for instance:In larger rodent brains, the average sizeof the neuron increases,so the brain inflates very rapidlyand gains size much faster than it gains neurons.But primate brains gain neuronswithout the average neuron becoming any larger,which is a very economical wayto add neurons to your brain.The result is that a primate brainwill always have more neurons thana rodent brain of the same size,and the larger the brain,the larger this difference will be.Well, what about our brain then?We found that we have, on average,86 billion neurons,16 billion of which are in the cerebral cortex,and if you consider that the cerebral cortexis the seat of functions likeawareness and logical and abstract reasoning,and that 16 billion is the most neuronsthat any cortex has,I think this is the simplest explanationfor our remarkable cognitive abilities.But just as important is whatthe 86 billion neurons mean.Because we found that the relationshipbetween the size of the brainand its number of neuronscould be described mathematically,we could calculate what a human brainwould look like if it was made like a rodent brain.So, a rodent brain with 86 billion neuronswould weigh 36 kilos.That&#39;s not possible.A brain that huge would be crushedby its own weight,and this impossible brain would goin the body of 89 tons.I don&#39;t think it looks like us.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:因此，这已经带給我们的一个非常重要的结论，我们不是啮齿类动物。人类的大脑不是一个大老鼠的大脑。和一只老鼠相比，我们看起来可能特别些，是的但这样的比较不公平，我们知道我们不是啮齿类动物。我们是灵长类动物，因此和其他的灵长类动物做正确的比较。這里还有，如果你自己来算一下，你会发现一般的的灵长类动物有着860 亿神经元将会有一个约 1.2 公斤的大脑这似乎刚刚好，在大约66 公斤身体中，在我的研究是完全正确的我们对此一点儿也不惊讶但这仍是令人难以置信的重要结论：我是灵长类动物。而且,你们全部都是灵长类动物。
en:So this brings us to a very importantconclusion already,which is that we are not rodents.The human brain is not a large rat brain.Compared to a rat, we might seem special, yes,but that&#39;s not a fair comparison to make,given that we know that we are not rodents.We are primates,so the correct comparison is to other primates.And there, if you do the math,you find that a generic primatewith 86 billion neuronswould have a brain of about 1.2 kilos,which seems just right,in a body of some 66 kilos,which in my case is exactly right,which brings us to a very unsurprisingbut still incredibly important conclusion:I am a primate.And all of you are primates.
时间： 7:29
zh-cn:达尔文也是。我认为达尔文会很欣赏这个研究结论。他的大脑，像我们一样，和其它灵长类动物的大脑一样。
en:And so was Darwin.I love to think that Darwinwould have really appreciated this.His brain, like ours,was made in the image of other primate brains.
时间： 7:40
zh-cn:所以，人类的大脑可能是显著的,是的但它特别之处不在于其神经元的数目。它只是一个大的灵长类动物的大脑。我想这是个非常谦卑和发人深省的思考提醒了我们在自然界的位置。
en:So the human brain may be remarkable, yes,but it is not special in its number of neurons.It is just a large primate brain.I think that&#39;s a very humbling and sobering thoughtthat should remind us of our place in nature.
时间： 7:53
zh-cn:为什么我们的大脑消耗这么大的能量，然后呢？有些人已经想通了，人类的大脑能消耗多少能量和其他物种的大脑消耗多少能量而现在,我们知道每个大脑中有多少神经元，我们可以算一算。结果是,人类和其他物种的大脑消耗相同的能量平均每日，每十亿个神经元消耗六个卡路里的热量。所以一个大脑全部精力的消耗是简单的，线性函数可计算其神经元的数目结果发现，人类的大脑消耗的能量就跟你预期的一样所以，为什么人类的大脑消耗如此多的能量的原因容易理解，因为它有大量的神经元，还有,因为我们是灵长类动物在一个特定大小的身体里,人类比任何其他的动物，有着更多的神经元我们的大脑的相对消耗量是很大的，但只是因为我们是灵长类动物，不是因为我们是特別的。
en:Why does it cost so much energy, then?Well, other people have figured outhow much energy the human brainand that of other species costs,and now that we knew how many neuronseach brain was made of, we could do the math.And it turns out that both humanand other brains cost about the same,an average of six calories per billion neurons per day.So the total energetic cost of a brainis a simple, linear functionof its number of neurons,and it turns out that the human braincosts just as much energy as you would expect.So the reason why the human braincosts so much energy is simply becauseit has a huge number of neurons,and because we are primateswith many more neurons for a given body sizethan any other animal,the relative cost of our brain is large,but just because we&#39;re primates,not because we&#39;re special.
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:最后一个问题，我们为什么有数量巨大的神经元，特别是，如果巨猿比我们更大，那为什么他们沒有一个有着更多神经细胞,比我们还大的大脑呢?当我们意识到这个有多珍貴,在大脑中有大量的神经元，我想，可能有一个简单的原因。他们只是不能负担一个大型的身体以及多量的神经细胞共存所需的能量。所以我们算过一方面，我们计算着一个灵长类动物每一天获取多少能量借由吃生的食物，另一方面，有多少能量在一个特定大小的身体中消耗和有多少能量在含有特定数量神经元的大脑中消耗然后我们找到一个结合身体尺寸和大脑神经元数目灵长类动物能夠负担得起如果它每天花一定数量的时间在吃上面。
en:Last question, then:how did we come by thisremarkable number of neurons,and in particular, if great apesare larger than we are,why don&#39;t they have a larger brain than we do, with more neurons?When we realized how much expensive it isto have a lot of neurons in the brain, I figured,maybe there&#39;s a simple reason.They just can&#39;t afford the energyfor both a large body and a large number of neurons.So we did the math.We calculated on the one handhow much energy a primate gets per dayfrom eating raw foods,and on the other hand, how much energya body of a certain size costsand how much energy a brain of acertain number of neurons costs,and we looked for the combinationsof body size and number of brain neuronsthat a primate could affordif it ate a certain number of hours per day.
时间： 9:25
zh-cn:然后, 我们发现到因为神经细胞太珍貴了，有一个权衡出先在身体大小和神经元的數量之间。所以, 一个灵长类动物每天吃八个小时能够负担最多 530 亿神经元，但是，它的身体不能超过25 公斤。任何比这更重的重量它必须放弃一些神经细胞。所以,它不是一个庞大身体就是一个大数量的神经元。当你吃的像灵长类动物时，你不能负担任何一方。
en:And what we found is thatbecause neurons are so expensive,there is a tradeoff betweenbody size and number of neurons.So a primate that eats eight hours per daycan afford at most 53 billion neurons,but then its body cannot be any biggerthan 25 kilos.To weigh any more than that,it has to give up neurons.So it&#39;s either a large bodyor a large number of neurons.When you eat like a primate,you can&#39;t afford both.
时间： 9:53
zh-cn:一个方法超出此种代谢限制是每一天花更多的时间在吃饭上面，但是，这样是很危险的某种程度上，它是不可能发生的。大猩猩和红毛猩猩，例如，能夠负担约 300 亿个神经元它们每天花八个半小时吃饭，这似乎是它们所能做的一切。9 个小时的每日饲喂是灵长类动物的实际限制。
en:One way out of this metabolic limitationwould be to spend even more hours per day eating,but that gets dangerous,and past a certain point, it&#39;s just not possible.Gorillas and orangutans, for instance,afford about 30 billion neuronsby spending eight and a half hours per day eating,and that seems to be about as much as they can do.Nine hours of feeding per dayseems to be the practical limit for a primate.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:那我们呢?根据我们的860 亿神经元和 60 到 70 公斤的体重，我们应该要花超过九个小时每天在吃饭上这是不可行的。如果我们像灵长类动物一样吃，我们不应该在这里。
en:What about us?With our 86 billion neuronsand 60 to 70 kilos of body mass,we should have to spend over nine hoursper day every single day feeding,which is just not feasible.If we ate like a primate,we should not be here.
时间：10:37
zh-cn:我们怎么在这里呢？好吧，如果我们的大脑消耗的能量跟他应该所消耗的一致，并且如果我们不能把每天醒着的时间都花在吃饭上，然后这个唯一的选择，真的，是以某种方式从相同的食品上获取更多的能量。引人注目的是，这和我们的祖先早已发现的完全匹配在一百五十万年前，他们发明了烹饪。要做饭就得使用火在食物进入你身体前预先消化食物。煮熟的食物比较软，所以他们更容易嚼烂在你的嘴里完全粉碎这就使他们能够完全被消化并且被你的肠道所吸收，这使得它们在更少的时间内带来更多能源。所以烹饪让我们有更多的时间，去用我们的神经元做更多有趣的事情而不是只想着食物，寻找食物，并吞噬下食物花去整整一天。
en:How did we get here, then?Well, if our brain costs just as much energyas it should, and if we can&#39;t spendevery waking hour of the day feeding,then the only alternative, really,is to somehow get more energyout of the same foods.And remarkably, that matches exactlywhat our ancestors are believed to have inventedone and a half million years ago,when they invented cooking.To cook is to use fireto pre-digest foods outside of your body.Cooked foods are softer, so they&#39;re easier to chewand to turn completely into mush in your mouth,so that allows them to be completely digestedand absorbed in your gut,which makes them yield much moreenergy in much less time.So cooking frees time for us to domuch more interesting things with our dayand with our neuronsthan just thinking about food,looking for food, and gobbling down foodall day long.
时间：11:33
zh-cn:所以由于烹饪，曾是一个沉重的负担，这个大，且极其昂贵的，有着一大堆神经元的大脑，现在能够成为一项重要资产，现在，我们可以为给予神经元提供能量并且把时间用在去做一些有趣的事情。因此，我认为这就解释了为什么人类的大脑在进化过程中增长如此之快，当所有剩余的只是一个灵长类动物的大脑。与这么大的大脑现在可以负担地起烹饪，我们去迅速地进步着，从生食到文化，农业、 文明、 杂货店、电力、 冰箱、所有这些事物，现今使我们能够得到我们需要的所有能量一整天所需的所有能量来自于你最喜欢的快餐食品。所以曾是一种解决办法现在成为了这一问题，讽刺的是，我们在生食中寻找解决方案。
en:So because of cooking, what once wasa major liability, this large,dangerously expensive brain with a lot of neurons,could now become a major asset,now that we could both afford the energy for a lot of neuronsand the time to do interesting things with them.So I think this explains why the human braingrew to become so large so fast in evolution,all of the while remaining just a primate brain.With this large brain now affordable by cooking,we went rapidly from raw foods to culture,agriculture, civilization, grocery stores,electricity, refrigerators,all of those things that nowadaysallow us to get all the energy we needfor the whole day in a single sittingat your favorite fast food joint.So what once was a solutionnow became the problem,and ironically, we look for the solution in raw food.
时间：12:27
zh-cn:那么人类的优势是什么？我们有什么东西是其他动物没有的吗？我的答案是我们有最大数量神经元存在于大脑皮层中，并且我认为这能最简单地解释为什么我们有卓越的认知能力。还有就是我们做了什么是没有其他动物做的，我认为使我们能够达到这么多的，最多数量的神经元存在于大脑皮质中的基本原因是两个词，我们做饭。没有其他动物烹饪它们的食物。只有人类才做。而且我认为，这就是我们是怎么成为人类的。
en:So what is the human advantage?What is it that we havethat no other animal has?My answer is that we have the largest numberof neurons in the cerebral cortex,and I think that&#39;s the simplest explanationfor our remarkable cognitive abilities.And what is it that we do that no other animal does,and which I believe was fundamentalto allow us to reach that large,largest number of neurons in the cortex?In two words, we cook.No other animal cooks its food. Only humans do.And I think that&#39;s how we got to become human.
时间：13:01
zh-cn:研究人类大脑改变我对食物的想法。现在我看看自己的厨房，然后我向它鞠躬，然后我谢谢我的祖先想到这个有可能使我们成为人类的发明。谢谢。（掌声）
en:Studying the human brain changed the way I think about food.I now look at my kitchen,and I bow to it,and I thank my ancestors for coming upwith the invention that probably made us humans.Thank you very much.(Applause)
