时间： 0:12
zh-cn:那是 2005 年秋日的一个下午。我时任 ACLU（美国公民自由联盟）的科学顾问。我真的非常喜欢我的工作，但是那段时间我时常感到有一点点受挫。
en:It was an afternoon in the fall of 2005.I was working at the ACLUas the organization&#39;s science advisor.I really, really loved my job,but I was having one of those dayswhere I was feelingjust a little bit discouraged.
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:于是我经过走廊晃荡到同事克里斯·汉森的办公室。克里斯在 ACLU 供职三十多年了，他对机构有深刻的了解和想法。
en:So I wandered down the hallwayto my colleague Chris Hansen&#39;s office.Chris had been at the ACLUfor more than 30 years,so he had deep institutionalknowledge and insights.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:我向克里斯解释我为什么觉得有些举步维艰。我当时在调查一系列处在科学和公民自由十字路口的问题——非常有意思。但是我希望 ACLU 能够在更高的层面参与这些问题。以一种能真正做出改变的方式。
en:I explained to Christhat I was feeling a little bit stuck.I had been investigatinga number of issuesat the intersection of scienceand civil liberties — super interesting.But I wanted the ACLU to engagethese issues in a much bigger way,in a way that could reallymake a difference.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:克里斯开门见山地说，“那好，所有你正在考虑的问题里面，排前五位的是什么？”
en:So Chris cut rightto the chase, and he says,&quot;Well, of all the issues you&#39;ve beenlooking at, what are the top five?&quot;
时间： 1:06
zh-cn:“我想应该是遗传歧视，生育技术，生物样本库，还有……哦，这个真的很酷，功能性 MRI（核磁共振成像），用它来测谎，还有……哦，当然，还有基因专利。”
en:&quot;Well, there&#39;s genetic discrimination,and reproductive technologies,and biobanking, and ...oh, there&#39;s this really cool issue,functional MRI and using itfor lie detection, and ...oh, and of course, there&#39;s gene patents.&quot;
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:“基因专利？”
en:&quot;Gene patents?&quot;
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:“是的，你知道的，授予人类基因专利。”
en:&quot;Yes, you know, patents on human genes.&quot;
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:“不可能！你是说，美国政府正在对人身体的部分授予专利？这怎么可能嘛。”
en:&quot;No!You&#39;re telling me that the US governmenthas been issuing patentson part of the human body?That can&#39;t be right.&quot;
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:我回到我的办公室，给克里斯发了三篇文章。20分钟以后，他冲进我的办公室。“天哪！你说中了！我们可以起诉谁？”
en:I went back to my officeand sent Chris three articles.And 20 minutes later,he came bursting in my office.&quot;Oh my god! You&#39;re right! Who can we sue?&quot;
时间： 1:46
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:克里斯是一名杰出的律师，但是他几乎完全不懂专利法，而且肯定不懂遗传学。我懂一点遗传学，但我连律师都不是，更别说专利律师了。所以很显然，在打官司之前，我们需要学很多东西。
en:Now Chris is a really brilliant lawyer,but he knew almost nothingabout patent lawand certainly nothing about genetics.I knew something about genetics,but I wasn&#39;t even a lawyer,let alone a patent lawyer.So clearly we had a lot to learnbefore we could file a lawsuit.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:首先，我们需要搞清楚当有人为基因申请专利时，究竟是什么被授予了专利。基因专利通常包含几十条要求，但是最矛盾的是所谓的“离体 DNA”——也就是从细胞中移出的 DNA 片段。
en:First, we needed to understandexactly what was patentedwhen someone patented a gene.Gene patents typically containdozens of claims,but the most controversial of theseare to so-called &quot;isolated DNA&quot; —namely, a piece of DNAthat has been removed from a cell.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:基因专利的支持者称，“看见了吗？我们没有对你身体中的基因申请专利，我们是为离体的基因申请专利。”这话是没错，但问题在于，无论如何，要使用基因，就必须先进行分离。而被授予专利的，并非他们分离的某个特定的基因，而是那个基因每一种可能的版本。
en:Gene patent proponents say,&quot;See? We didn&#39;t patentthe gene in your body,we patented an isolated gene.&quot;And that&#39;s true,but the problem is that any useof the gene requires that it be isolated.And the patents weren&#39;t justto a particular gene that they isolated,but on every possibleversion of that gene.
时间： 2:49
zh-cn:那么这意味着什么呢？
en:So what does that mean?
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:这意味着你不能把你的基因给医生，然后请他/她检查，比如说，检查是否有变异，如果你没有专利持有者的授权。这也意味着专利持有者有权阻止任何人使用该基因从事研究或临床试验。允许专利持有者，通常是私有企业，关起开发人类基因组的大门，会损害患者的利益。
en:That means that you can&#39;t giveyour gene to your doctorand ask him or her to look at it,say, to see if it has any mutations,without permission of the patent holder.It also means that the patent holderhas the right to stop anyonefrom using that genein research or clinical testing.Allowing patent holders,often private companies,to lock up stretches of the human genomewas harming patients.
时间： 3:17
zh-cn:比如，阿比盖尔，一个10岁的孩子，患有长 QT 综合症，这是一种严重的心脏疾病，如果不治疗，可能引发猝死。有个公司拥有与这种疾病有关的两个基因的专利，他们开发了一种针对此病症的检验方法。但随后公司倒闭了，还没来得及推出这项检测服务。于是另一个实验室尝试提供这种检测，但是这家持有专利的公司起诉那个了实验室专利侵权。所以，结果是，两年内，没有人提供这种检测服务。在此期间，阿比盖尔因未诊断出长 QT 症去世。
en:Consider Abigail,a 10-year-old with long QT syndrome,a serious heart condition that,if left untreated,can result in sudden death.The company that obtained a patent on twogenes associated with this conditiondeveloped a test to diagnose the syndrome.But then they went bankruptand they never offered it.So another lab tried to offer the test,but the company that held the patentsthreatened to sue the labfor patent infringement.So as a result,for 2 years, no test was available.During that time,Abigail died of undiagnosed long QT.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:基因专利明显是个问题，并且在损害患者的利益。但是我们有没有办法挑战他们呢？
en:Gene patents clearly were a problemand were harming patients.But was there a waywe could challenge them?
时间： 4:01
zh-cn:其实，（美国）最高法院通过一系列的判例已经清楚地表明，有些东西是不能申请专利的。你不能为自然界的产物申请专利——空气、水、矿产、周期表里的元素。你也不能为自然规律申请专利——引力定律，E=mc2 （质能方程），这些东西太基础了，必须对所有人免费开放，不该被任何人独自占有。
en:Turns out that the Supreme Courthas made clearthrough a long line of cases,that certain thingsare not patent eligible.You can&#39;t patent products of nature —the air, the water, minerals,elements of the periodic table.And you can&#39;t patent laws of nature —the law of gravity, E = mc2.These things are just too fundamentaland must remain free to alland reserved exclusively to none.
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:对我们来说，似乎 DNA，生命最本质的结构，掌控所有蛋白质生产的编码，既是自然界的产物，也是自然规律，无论它是在我们的体内，还是沉在一根试管底部。
en:It seemed to us that DNA,the most fundamental structure of life,that codes for the productionof all of our proteins,is both a product of natureand a law of nature,regardless of whether it&#39;s in our bodiesor sitting in the bottom of a test tube.
时间： 4:47
zh-cn:我们不断深入这个问题，在国内四处奔波，和许多专家交流——科学家、医疗专家、律师、专利律师。绝大多数都同意，在政策层面我们是正确的，并且在法律层面，至少在理论上是正确的。但他们全都认为我们挑战基因专利授权的成功概率几乎为零。
en:As we delved into this issue,we traveled all over the countryto speak with many different experts —scientists, medical professionals,lawyers, patent lawyers.Most of them agreed that we were rightas a matter of policy,and, at least in theory,as a matter of law.All of them thoughtour chances of winninga gene-patent challengewere about zero.
时间： 5:12
zh-cn:为什么呢？因为专利局签发这些专利已经超过 20 年了。毫不夸张地说，现在已经有上千个人类基因专利。专利律师已经深陷其中，生物技术产业已经通过这个司法实践壮大，禁止基因专利的立法提案年年在国会被提出，但很显然根本没出国会的门。所以归根结底：法院就是不愿意去推翻这些专利。
en:Why is that?Well, the patent officehad been issuing these patentsfor more than 20 years.There were literally thousandsof patents on human genes.The patent bar was deeplyentrenched in the status quo,the biotech industry had grown uparound this practice,and legislation to ban gene patentshad been introducedyear after year in Congress,and had gone absolutely nowhere.So the bottom line:courts just weren&#39;t going to be willingto overturn these patents.
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:只不过，我和克里斯都不是那种遇到挑战就退缩的人，听到“站在正义一边还不够，”这就更值得我们去为此战斗。所以我们着手准备自己的案件。
en:Now, neither Chris nor I were the typeto shy away from a challenge,and hearing, &quot;Being rightjust isn&#39;t enough,&quot;seemed all the more reasonto take on this fight.So we set out to build our case.
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:现在，专利案通常是：公司 A 起诉公司 B，只针对一些非常局限、隐晦的技术问题。我们对那种案件并不十分感兴趣，我们认为这个案件要比那些重大得多。这个案件关乎科学自由，医疗进步，患者权利。所以我们决定要做和你们通常看到的专利案不同的事情——它更像是针对公民权利的申诉。
en:Now, patent cases tend to be:Company A sues Company Bover some really narrow,obscure technical issue.We weren&#39;t really interestedin that kind of case,and we thought this casewas much bigger than that.This was about scientific freedom,medical progress,the rights of patients.So we decided we were goingto develop a casethat was not likeyour typical patent case —more like a civil rights case.
时间： 6:23
zh-cn:我们着手寻找这样一个基因专利持有者：他要非常强硬地推行专利；然后组织一个广泛的原告和专家联盟来告诉法庭这些专利侵害病人、阻碍创新的种种劣迹。
en:We set out to identifya gene-patent holderthat was vigorously enforcing its patentsand then to organize a broad coalitionof plaintiffs and expertsthat could tell the courtabout all the ways that these patentswere harming patients and innovation.
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:我们发现 Myriad Genetics可以作为起诉的主要目标。这是一家总部设在犹他州盐湖城的公司。Myriad 持有两个基因的专利，BRCA1 和 BRCA2 基因。携带有这两个基因某些变异的女性罹患乳腺癌和卵巢癌的风险会显著升高。Myriad 公司使用他们的专利来维持美国境内化验 BRCA 的全面垄断地位。他们强行叫停了数个提供 BRCA化验的实验室。他们对化验收取高额费用——超过三千美元。他们停止向国际科学界共享临床数据。还有可能最糟糕的，曾经有几年，Myriad 拒绝在他们的化验中增加由法国的一个研究团队鉴别出来的新变异类型。
en:We found the prime candidateto sue in Myriad Genetics,a company that&#39;s basedin Salt Lake City, Utah.Myriad held patents on two genes,the BRCA1 and the BRCA2 genes.Women with certain mutationsalong these genesare considered to beat a significantly increased riskof developing breast and ovarian cancer.Myriad had used its patents to maintaina complete monopoly on BRCA testingin the United States.It had forced multiple labsthat were offering BRCA testing to stop.It charged a lot of money for its test —over 3,000 dollars.It had stopped sharing its clinical datawith the internationalscientific community.And perhaps worst of all,for a period of several years,Myriad refused to update its testto include additional mutationsthat had been identifiedby a team of researchers in France.
时间： 7:35
zh-cn:据估计，在此期间，数年间，有近 12% 接受化验的女性得到了错误的结果——也就是本应该是阳性的阴性结果（假阴性）。
en:It has been estimatedthat during that period,for several years,as many as 12 percent of womenundergoing testingreceived the wrong answer —a negative test resultthat should have been positive.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:这是卡瑟琳·马克西安。卡瑟琳的姐姐艾琳 40 岁得了乳腺癌。她曾做过 Myriad 的化验，结果是阴性。这家人松了口气。这说明艾琳的癌症很可能不会在家族中重现。她的家人也不需要再接受化验。但是两年后，卡瑟琳被诊断出晚期卵巢癌。原来卡瑟琳的姐姐就是那 12%得到了假阴性结果的病人之一。如果艾琳得到了正确的化验结果，卡瑟琳就也会去做化验，她的卵巢癌就可能得到预防。
en:This is Kathleen Maxian.Kathleen&#39;s sister Eileendeveloped breast cancer at age 40and she was tested by Myriad.The test was negative.The family was relieved.That meant that Eileen&#39;s cancermost likely didn&#39;t run in the family,and that other members of her familydidn&#39;t need to be tested.But two years later,Kathleen was diagnosedwith advanced-stage ovarian cancer.It turned out that Kathleen&#39;s sisterwas among the 12 percentwho received a false-negative test result.Had Eileen received the proper result,Kathleen would have then been tested,and her ovarian cancercould have been prevented.
时间： 8:35
zh-cn:我们确定目标为 Myriad 后，就需要组建一个能够陈述这些问题的原告和专家团。我们找到了 20 位非常积极的原告：遗传学咨询顾问，收到叫停信件的遗传学家：支持我们的组织，四个主要科学组织，集中代表了超过 15 万名科学工作者和医疗专家，以及无力支付 Myriad 的检测或者希望有其他选择，但因为专利原因无法实现的女性个体。
en:Once we settled on Myriad,we then had to form a coalitionof plaintiffs and expertsthat could illuminate these problems.We ended up with 20highly committed plaintiffs:genetic counselors,geneticists who had receivedcease and desist letters,advocacy organizations,four major scientific organizationsthat collectively representedmore than 150,000 scientistsand medical professionals,and individual women who eithercouldn&#39;t afford Myriad&#39;s test,or who wanted to obtaina second opinion but could not,as a result of the patents.
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:我们在准备案件期间遇到的主要挑战是，搞清楚如何最有效地阐述科学观点。所以，为了辩明Myriad 的成果并不属于创新，以及离体的 BRCA 基因是自然界的产物，我们必须解释一些基本概念，比如：基因是什么？DNA 是什么？如何分离 DNA，以及为什么这不是创新？
en:One of the major challengeswe had in preparing the casewas figuring out how bestto communicate the science.So in order to argue that what Myriad didwas not an invention,and that isolated BRCA geneswere products of nature,we had to explain a coupleof basic concepts, like:What&#39;s a gene? What&#39;s DNA?How is DNA isolated,and why isn&#39;t that an invention?
时间： 9:36
zh-cn:我们和原告以及专家团花费了无数日夜，努力寻找能够简洁又不失准确地解释这些概念的方式。我们最终非常依赖比喻，比如说黄金。
en:We spent hours and hourswith our plaintiffs and experts,trying to come up with waysof explaining these conceptssimply yet accurately.And we ended up relying heavilyon the use of metaphors,like gold.
时间： 9:50
zh-cn:因此，分离 DNA ——就像从大山中挖出黄金，或者从溪流河床里淘出黄金。你或许可以为采集黄金的流程申请专利，但你不能为黄金本身申请专利。你可能要靠无数艰辛努力才能从山中挖到黄金；但你仍旧不能为它申请专利，黄金还是黄金。而黄金，一旦被挖掘出来，显然可以被用于各种它藏在山中时不能实现的用途；比如，你可以把它做成珠宝——但仍然不能为金子申请专利，金子还是金子。
en:So isolating DNA —it&#39;s like extracting gold from a mountainor taking it out of a stream bed.You might be able to patentthe process for mining the gold,but you can&#39;t patent the gold itself.It might&#39;ve taken a lotof hard work and effortto dig the gold out of the mountain;you still can&#39;t patent it,it&#39;s still gold.And the gold, once it&#39;s extracted,can clearly be usedfor all sorts of thingsthat it couldn&#39;t be usedfor when it was in the mountain;you can make jewelryout of it for example —still can&#39;t patent the gold,it&#39;s still gold.
时间：10:24
zh-cn:然后就到了 2009 年，我们准备起诉了。我们向纽约南区的联邦法庭递交了诉讼，然后案子被随机分配给了法官罗伯特·斯威特。2010 年 3 月，斯威特法官宣布了他的判决意见。152 页。我方完胜。
en:So now it&#39;s 2009,and we&#39;re ready to file our case.We filed in federal courtin the Southern District of New York,and the case was randomly assignedto Judge Robert Sweet.In March 2010, Judge Sweetissued his opinion —152 pages —and a complete victory for our side.
时间：10:46
zh-cn:在判决意见里，我们对他在案子中如此雄辩地陈述科学事实激动不已。我是说，我们的简述——挺不错的，但没有这么出彩。他是如何在这么短的时间内做出如此深刻的理解？我们真的无法想象一切是怎么发生的。后来我们才发现，当时斯威特法官手下的助手不仅仅是一个律师——他还是个科学家。他又不仅仅是个科学家——他是分子生物学博士。
en:In reading the opinion,we could not get over how eloquentlyhe described the science in the case.I mean, our brief —it was pretty good,but not this good.How did he develop such a deepunderstanding of this issuein such a short time?We just could not comprehendhow this had happened.So it turned out,Judge Sweet&#39;s clerkworking for him at the time,was not just a lawyer —he was a scientist.He was not just a scientist —he had a PhD in molecular biology.
时间：11:19
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:21
zh-cn:我们真是太走运了！
en:What an incredible stroke of luck!
时间：11:25
zh-cn:Myriad 随后向美国联邦巡回上诉法庭上诉。然后事情就变得非常有意思了。
en:Myriad then appealedto the US Court of Appealsfor the Federal Circuit.And here things got really interesting.
时间：11:32
zh-cn:首先，本案中的一个关键时刻，美国政府倒戈了。
en:First, in a pivotal moment of this case,the US government switched sides.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:在地区法庭上，政府递交了一份简述支持 Myriad。但是这回美国政府直接反对了它自己的专利局，政府递交了一份摘要声明，他们基于地区法庭的判决，重新考虑了问题，并认定离体 DNA 不具备申请专利的条件。这件事意义非凡，完全出人意料。
en:So in the district court the governmentsubmitted a brief on Myriad&#39;s side.But now in direct oppositionto its own patent office,the US government files a briefthat states that is hasreconsidered this issuein light of the district court&#39;s opinion,and has concluded that isolated DNAis not patent eligible.This was a really big deal,totally unexpected.
时间：12:03
zh-cn:联邦巡回上诉法庭受理过所有的专利案例，对专利持坚决支持态度也是众所周知。所以即使取得了如此长足的进步，我们仍然觉得会败诉。我们是败诉了。差不多吧。结果是 2 比 1 的意见。但是两位反对我们的法官选择了完全不同的理由。第一位，法官洛里，胡编乱造了他自己的生物理论 ——完全是胡说八道。
en:The Court of Appealsfor the Federal Circuithears all patent cases,and it has a reputation for beingvery, very pro-patent.So even with this remarkable development,we expected to lose.And we did.Sort of.Ends up split decision, 2 to 1.But the two judges who ruled against us,did so for completely different reasons.The first one, Judge Lourie,made up his own novel,biological theory —totally wrong.
时间：12:34
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：12:35
zh-cn:他觉得 Myriad 制造了一种新化学物质 ——驴唇不对马嘴。Myriad 竟然对这一点没有争议，真是令人大跌眼镜。另一位，法官莫尔，说她基本同意我们说的离体 DNA 是自然界的产物。但是她声称“我不想动摇生物技术产业的根基”，等等。第三位，法官布里森，同意我们。
en:He decided Myriad had createda new chemical —made absolutely no sense.Myriad didn&#39;t even argue this,so it came out of the blue.The other, Judge Moore,said she basically agreed with usthat isolated DNA is a product of nature.But she&#39;s like, &quot;I don&#39;t wantto shake up the biotech industry.&quot;The third, Judge Bryson,agreed with us.
时间：12:58
zh-cn:于是我们申请最高法院复审。当你向最高法院情愿时，你需要提出一个希望法院回应的问题。通常这些问题都是长长的一段话，从句套从句，可以写满一页，“其中包括”、“由此得知”，等等。我们提交了可能是有史以来最短的问题。四个词：能否授予人类基因专利？
en:So now we sought reviewby the Supreme Court.And when you petition the Supreme Court,you have to present a questionthat you want the Court to answer.Usually these questions take the formof a super-long paragraph,like a whole page longwith lots and lots of clauses,&quot;wherein this&quot; and &quot;therefore that.&quot;We submitted perhapsthe shortest question presented ever.Four words:Are human genes patentable?
时间：13:27
zh-cn:克里斯第一次问我觉得这个问题靠不靠谱时，我说，“我不知道。我想你可能得说，‘能否授予离体 DNA 专利？’”
en:Now when Chris first asked mewhat I thought of these words,I said, &quot;Well, I don&#39;t know.I think you have to say,&#39;Is isolated DNA patentable?&#39;&quot;
时间：13:35
zh-cn:“非也。我希望大法官的反应能和我在七年前你跟我提这个问题时一模一样。”
en:&quot;Nope.I want the justices to havethe very same reaction that I hadwhen you brought this issueto me seven years ago.&quot;
时间：13:45
zh-cn:好吧，我当然没理由反驳。
en:Well, I certainly couldn&#39;targue with that.
时间：13:48
zh-cn:最高法院只受理大约 1%收到的案件，他们接受了我们的。口头辩论那天到来时，真的是太激动人心了——法庭外排起了长队，人们从凌晨 2:30 起就开始排队，希望能挤进法庭。两个乳腺癌的组织，乳腺癌行动组织和 FORCE，在法庭台阶上组织声援。
en:The Supreme Court only hearsabout one percentof the cases that it receives,and it agreed to hear ours.The day of the oral argument arrives,and it was really, really exciting —long line of people outside,people had been standing in linesince 2:30 in the morningto try to get into the courthouse.Two breast cancer organizations,Breast Cancer Action and FORCE,had organized a demonstrationon the courthouse steps.
时间：14:14
zh-cn:克里斯和我坐在走廊里一声不响，随后他走进法庭，为他职业生涯中最重要的案件辩护。我显然比他更紧张。但是当我走进法庭时，所有的慌张都不见了。我看到周围都是熟悉的面孔：我们的一位位女性客户，她们毫无保留地分享了自己的亲身经历；有在百忙之中抽出大量时间投身于这场斗争的遗传学家，还有来自许多不同领域的代表：医疗、患者救助、环保和宗教组织，以及本案中向法院递交摘要的朋友。
en:Chris and I sat quietly in the hallway,moments before he was to walk in and arguethe most important case of his career.I was clearly more nervous than he was.But any remaining panic subsidedas I walked into the courtroomand looked aroundat a sea of friendly faces:our individual women clientswho had shared theirdeeply personal stories,the geneticists who had taken huge chunksof time out of their busy careersto dedicate themselves to this fightand representatives from a diverse arrayof medical, patient advocacy,environmental and religious organizations,who had submitted friend of the courtbriefs in the case.
时间：14:57
zh-cn:同时在场的还有三位人类基因组计划的先驱者，包括 DNA 的发现者之一，詹姆斯·沃森。他也向法庭递交了简述，其中他指出基因专利是“疯子行为”。
en:Also in the room were three leadersof the Human Genome Project,including the co-discovererof DNA himself,James Watson,who had submitted a brief to the court,where he referredto gene patenting as &quot;lunacy.&quot;
时间：15:10
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：15:12
zh-cn:出席法庭的群体背景之广，以及他们中每一位为实现这一天而做出的贡献，都为我们岌岌可危的局势打了一剂了强心针。
en:The diversity of the communitiesrepresented in this roomand the contributions each had madeto make this day a realityspoke volumes to what was at stake.
时间：15:22
zh-cn:辩论本身非常有说服力。克里斯出色地完成了辩论。但是对我而言，最激动人心的一刻是看着最高法院的大法官为离体 DNA 激烈争论，换着花样打比方，激烈地交换意见，就和我们的法律团队过去七年中所做的一样。大法官卡根把离体 DNA 比作从亚马孙雨林中提取医疗植物。大法官罗伯茨把它比作把树木雕成棒球棒。以及绝对是我最喜欢的一个瞬间，大法官索托马约尔宣称离体 DNA “就是自然存在的”。
en:The argument itself was riveting.Chris argued brilliantly.But for me,the most thrilling aspect was watchingthe Supreme Court justices grapplewith isolated DNA,through a series of colorful analogiesand feisty exchanges,very much the same wayas our legal team had donefor the past seven years.Justice Kagan likened isolating DNAto extracting a medicinal plantfrom the Amazon.Justice Roberts distinguished itfrom carving a baseball bat from a tree.And in one of my absolutelyfavorite moments,Justice Sotomayor proclaimed isolated DNAto be &quot;just nature sitting there.&quot;
时间：16:02
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：16:04
zh-cn:我们那天离开法庭时信心满满，但我从未奢望这样的结局：九比零。
en:We felt pretty confidentleaving the courtroom that day,but I could never haveanticipated the outcome:nine to zero.
时间：16:14
zh-cn:“一段自然形成的 DNA 片段是自然界的产物，并不因为它被分离出体外就可以被授予专利。另外，Myriad 并没有创造任何东西。”
en:&quot;A naturally occurring DNA segmentis a product of nature,and not patent-eligible merely becauseit has been isolated.And furthermore,Myriad did not create anything.&quot;
时间：16:27
zh-cn:判决生效后 24 小时内，就有五个实验室宣布他们将开始提供 BRCA 基因的检测服务。他们有些承诺检测的价格将比 Myriad 的要低。有些承诺将提供更全面的检测，比 Myriad 提供的更多。
en:Within 24 hours of the decision,five labs had announcedthat they would begin to offer testingfor the BRCA genes.Some of them promised to offer the testsat a lower price than Myriad&#39;s.Some promised to providea more comprehensive testthan the one Myriad was offering.
时间：16:43
zh-cn:不过显然，这个决定远远不止影响 Myriad。它终结了美国境内 25 年来允许授予人类基因专利的行为。它为生物医疗领域的发现和创新扫除了一个重要的障碍。它也有助于保证像阿比盖尔、卡瑟琳和艾琳这样的患者能够获得她们所需要的检测。
en:But of course the decisiongoes far beyond Myriad.It ends a 25-year practiceof allowing patents on human genesin the United States.It clears a significant barrierto biomedical discovery and innovation.And it helps to ensure that patientslike Abigail, Kathleen and Eileenhave access to the tests that they need.
时间：17:05
zh-cn:最高法院宣判几周之后，我收到了一个邮件小包。是鲍勃·库克-德根寄来的，他是杜克大学的教授，是我和克里斯开始考虑是否要开始准备此案时最先拜访的人之一。我打开包裹，里面是一个小小的毛绒玩具。
en:A few weeks after the courtissued its decision,I received a small package in the mail.It was from Bob Cook-Deegan,a professor at Duke Universityand one the very first peopleChris and I went to visitwhen we started to considerwhether to bring this case.I opened it up to finda small stuffed animal.
时间：17:27
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：17:32
zh-cn:为了这个案件，我们冒了很大的风险。给予我们勇气面对风险的部分原因是我们知道我们在做正确的事。从开始到结束，整个过程将近八年，经历了许多曲折和反复。当然还借助了一点点运气，但正是我们牵线拉到一起的群体，正是我们创造的同盟，让猪也飞上了天。
en:We took a big risk in taking this case.Part of what gave us the courageto take that riskwas knowing that we were doingthe right thing.The process took nearly eight yearsfrom the start to finish,with many twists and turns along the way.A little luck certainly helped,but it was the communitiesthat we bridged,the alliances that we created,that made pigs fly.
时间：17:56
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:57
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
