时间： 0:12
zh-cn:这位是Shidutt Yadav,他来自印度的Uttar Pradesh（北方邦）当Shivdutt去Uttar Pradesh（北方邦）的土地登记办公室时他发现他被列入官方文件的已死亡名单中。他名下的土地已经不再属于他。他的兄弟，Chandrabhan和Phoolchand也在死亡名单里。
en:This is Shivdutt Yadav,and he&#39;s from Uttar Pradesh, India.Now Shivdutt was visiting the local land registry officein Uttar Pradesh,and he discoveredthat official records were listing him as dead.His land was no longer registeredin his name.His brothers, Chandrabhan and Phoolchand,were also listed as dead.
时间： 0:35
zh-cn:他们的亲戚贿赂当地官员签署了这三兄弟的死亡声明，由此中断三兄弟的土地继承程序自己继承了这些土地。这是他们的祖先留下的，属于三兄弟的父亲的土地。为此，三兄弟和他们的家人不得不背井离乡。根据Yadav家族的说法当地法院自2001年起对此案排期开审但自2001 年以来法官从未出庭
en:Family members had bribed officialsto interrupt the hereditary transfer of landby having the brothers declared dead,allowing them to inherittheir father&#39;s share of the ancestral farmland.Because of this, all three brothers and their familieshad to vacate their home.According to the Yadav family,the local court has been scheduling a case reviewsince 2001,but a judge has never appeared.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:在Uttar Pradesh （北方邦）很多人直到死都没能看到他们的案件被妥善审理。Shivdutt的父亲去世后，家人垂涎他的财产导致这起腐败案的发生。他被安葬在恒河在那里，有的遗体在河岸边被火化，有的则被缚上巨石沉入河中。
en:There are several instances in Uttar Pradeshof people dyingbefore their case is given a proper review.Shivdutt&#39;s father&#39;s death and a want for his propertyled to this corruption.He was laid to rest in the Ganges River,where the dead are cremated along the banks of the riveror tied to heavy stones and sunk in the water.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:拍下这些人的照片是我觉得很困惑。因为在官方文件里，他们并不存在。但这一张张照片证明他们确实还活在这个世界上。然而，照片无法改变他们（在官方文件里）的死亡记录。这样的困惑使我为展览选择了这个主题：很多时候我们都是活着的死人在很多时候，我们扮演着过去与未来的鬼魂。
en:Photographing these brotherswas a disorienting exchangebecause on paper they don&#39;t exist,and a photograph is so often used as an evidence of life.Yet, these men remain dead.This quandary led to the title of the project,which considers in many waysthat we are all the living deadand that we in some ways representghosts of the past and the future.
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:这是我新作品中的第一个故事。这是一个分成十八个章节的展览，主题是“死亡声明上的活人与其他章节”。为了这个展览我在过去的四年时间里踏遍世界研究和记录血缘关系和其他相关故事。我对命运的话题很感兴趣，我想知道我们的命运是否取决于我们的血统、机遇和环境。我记录了各种各样的人和事从巴西家族间的世代恩怨到波斯尼亚种族灭绝受害者的经历，从第一位女劫机犯到印度的活死人。在每一个章节中，你能看到一种碰撞，那是来自政府、统治者、领土和宗教信仰的外部力量与人们与生俱来的精神和身体的内在力量之间发生的碰撞。
en:So this story is the first of 18 chaptersin my new body of work titled &quot;A Living Man Declared Dead and Other Chapters.&quot;And for this work,I traveled around the world over a four-year periodresearching and recording bloodlinesand their related stories.I was interested in ideas surrounding fateand whether our fate is determinedby blood, chance or circumstance.The subjects I documentedranged from feuding families in Brazilto victims of genocide in Bosniato the first woman to hijack an airplaneand the living dead in India.In each chapter, you can see the external forcesof governance, power and territory or religioncolliding with the internal forcesof psychological and physical inheritance.
时间： 2:38
zh-cn:我的每个作品都由三个部分组成。左边的展板是一个或几个人像，我把同一家族的人们按照血缘关系排列，中间是设计成卷轴样式的文本面板，用来讲述最重要的故事。右边的展板用来做脚注说明这里更直观的展示了一些故事的片段和另一些故事的开端以及照片凭据。这是为了在某种程度模拟我们在网上浏览历史和故事时的状态。那是一种以一种不那么线性的方式，所以它更无序。而这样的无序恰恰与血缘关系的不容更改的秩序形成直接对比
en:Each work that I makeis comprised of three segments.On the left are one or more portrait panelsin which I systematically orderthe members of a given bloodline.This is followed by a text panel, it&#39;s designed in scroll form,in which I constructthe narrative at stake.And then on the right is what I refer to as a footnote panel.It&#39;s a space that&#39;s more intuitivein which I present fragments of the story,beginnings of other stories, photographic evidence.And it&#39;s meant to kind of reflecthow we engage with histories or stories on the Internet,in a less linear form.So it&#39;s more disordered.And this disorder is in direct contrastto the unalterable order of a bloodline.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:在我过去的作品中，我经常按部就班以一种看起来更易理解的方式来记录事情总是用确定的标题和确定的展现方式。但事实上，这种记录方式是非常抽象。因此在这个作品中，我想采用一种截然相反的方式，我想按照一个绝对的顺序来编辑，一种让我不能随意选择中断、策划或编辑的顺序。我找到了血缘关系。血缘关系是明确而有序的。而这个展览的核心是有序和无序的碰撞：血缘关系的有序性与混乱暴力的故事的无序性之间的碰撞。这就是我的作品的主题
en:In my past projects I&#39;ve often worked in serial form,documenting things that havethe appearance of being comprehensivethrough a determined title and a determined presentation,but in fact, are fairly abstract.In this project I wanted to work in the opposite directionand find an absolute catalog,something that I couldn&#39;t interrupt, curate or edit by choice.This led me to blood.A bloodline is determined and ordered.But the project centerson the collision of order and disorder —the order of blood butting up against the disorderrepresented in the often chaotic and violent storiesthat are the subjects of my chapters.
时间： 4:03
zh-cn:在第二章，在我拍摄了Arthur Ruppin的后代Arthur Ruppin在1907年被犹太复国主义组织送到巴勒斯坦去寻找可以成为犹太人定居点的地方并且为此获取土地。他作为巴勒斯坦的土地发展公司的代表负责监管收购土地他的工作就是为了建立一个犹太人的国家。我在耶路撒冷犹太复国主义档案馆的时候，我想研究一下关于犹太国家建立的早期文史资料。这就是我找到的地图。这些是犹太人定居点的备选方案，都是犹太复国主义组织委托研究的。这让我对（这些方案）在地理学方面的可能造成的影响很感兴趣。想象一下如果以色列是在乌干达境内就像这些地图所标注的那样这个世界将会多么不一样。这些是保存在在耶路撒冷的档案他们保留着卡片索引记录着最早的移民和入境事务处申请。这些是1919年至1965年间到巴勒斯坦和后来到以色列的人们的记录。
en:In chapter two, I photograph the descendants of Arthur Ruppin.He was sent in 1907 to Palestineby the Zionist organizationto look at areas for Jewish settlementand acquire land for Jewish settlement.He oversaw land acquisitionon behalf of the Palestine Land Development Companywhose work led to the establishmentof a Jewish state.Through my research at the Zionist Archives in Jerusalem,I wanted to look at the early paperworkof the establishment of the Jewish state.And I found these maps which you see here.And these are studiescommissioned by the Zionist organizationfor alternative areas for Jewish settlement.In this, I was interested in the consequencesof geographyand imagining how the world would be differentif Israel were in Uganda,which is what these maps demonstrate.These archives in Jerusalem,they maintain a card index fileof the earliest immigrants and applicants for immigrationto Palestine, and later Israel,from 1919 to 1965.
时间： 5:09
zh-cn:第 3 章：Joseph Nyamwanda Jura Onijo他在肯尼亚基苏木市外郊区行医治疗艾滋病、 结核病、 不孕不育，精神疾病、邪灵蛊术。他最常收到的诊疗费是现金、 牛或是山羊但有时当他的女病人无法支付诊疗费时他们的家人就会将这名妇女送给Jura以换取治疗。这些交易的结果就是Jura有九个妻子，32 个孩子和 63个 孙子。你可以在他的血缘关系图中看到这些孩子、孙子
en:Chapter three:Joseph Nyamwanda Jura Ondijotreated patients outside of Kisumu, Kenyafor AIDS, tuberculosis, infertility,mental illness, evil spirits.He&#39;s most often paid for his servicesin cash, cows or goats.But sometimes when his female patientscan&#39;t afford his services,their families give the women to Jurain exchange for medical treatment.As a result of these transactions,Jura has nine wives,32 childrenand 63 grandchildren.In his bloodline you see the children and grandchildren here.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:他的其中两个妻子是因为患有不孕不育症被送到他那儿然后他治好了她们；另外三个妻子是因为邪灵附体（被送来的）；还有一个是因为有哮喘和严重的胸痛；最后Ondijo声称是因为爱情，他娶了另两个妻子，并为此支付了16头 牛给她们的家庭。他的一个妻子离开了他还有一个妻子在驱赶邪灵时去世了。一夫多妻在肯尼亚很常见，尤其是在特权阶级中。他们有能力支付丰厚的礼金，也能养活多个家庭成员。在社会和政治方面有突出地位的人物都保持着一夫多妻的关系，这使得一夫多妻被看做是财富、 地位和权力的象征。
en:Two of his wives were brought to himsuffering from infertilityand he cured them,three for evil spirits,one for an asthmatic condition and severe chest painand two wives Ondijo claims he took for love,paying their families a total of 16 cows.One wife deserted himand another passed away during treatment for evil spirits.Polygamy is widely practiced in Kenya.It&#39;s common among a privileged classcapable of paying numerous dowriesand keeping multiple homes.Instances of prominent social and political figuresin polygamous relationshipshas led to the perception of polygamyas a symbol of wealth, status and power.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:您可能会注意到在某几个章节的照片中有的人像是空白的这些空的画像代表着一些人一些活着的但无法出现在画面中的人。我在文本展板中提到了他们缺席的原因，包括登革热、坐牢和参军，另外由于宗教和文化的原因某些地方不允许妇女拍照。在这一章里缺席的是儿童，因为他们的母亲不愿让孩子们前往拍摄地点因为担心他们的父亲会在这路上绑架他们。
en:You may notice in several of the chapters that I photographedthere are empty portraits.These empty portraits represent individuals,living individuals, who couldn&#39;t be present.And the reasons for their absence are given in my text panel.They include dengue fever,imprisonment, army service,women not allowed to be photographedfor religious and cultural reasons.And in this particular chapter,it&#39;s children whose motherswouldn&#39;t allow them to travel to the photographic shootfor fear that their fathers would kidnap them during it.
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:第六章：1859年，一位英国拓荒者将二十四只欧洲兔带到澳大利亚用来运动和打猎。一百年内,24 只兔子爆炸性地繁衍到5 亿只欧洲兔在澳大利亚没有天敌它们和本土野生动物与竞争损害当地原生植物并降低了土地的质量自 20 世纪 50 年代开始澳大利亚人将致命性疾病带入野生兔子族群以控制兔子数量这些兔子由一家昆士兰生物安全局的政府机构培养。他们培养了三种不同血统的兔子让它们感染一种致命的疾病并监测它们的生长状况以验证这种疾病是否能杀死这些兔子。他们在测试病毒的毒性。这项试验中，所有的兔子死了，除了几只是被安乐死的。
en:Twenty-four European rabbitswere brought to Australia in 1859by a British settlerfor sporting purposes, for hunting.And within a hundred years,that population of 24 had exploded to half a billion.The European rabbit has no natural predators in Australia,and it competes with native wildlifeand damages native plantsand degrades the land.Since the 1950s,Australia has been introducing lethal diseasesinto the wild rabbit populationto control growth.These rabbits were bred at a government facility,Biosecurity Queensland,where they bred three bloodlines of rabbitsand have infected them with a lethal diseaseand are monitoring their progressto see if it will effectively kill them.So they&#39;re testing its virulence.During the course of this trial, all of the rabbits died,except for a few, which were euthanized.
时间： 8:05
zh-cn:Haigh&#39;s 巧克力，与澳大利亚灭除兔子基金会进行合作停止所有复活节巧克力兔的生产而将它替换成了复活节袋狸这样做是为了抵抗一年一度以兔子庆祝的模式以期大众能更易接受杀死兔子这件事同时他们宣传一种澳大利亚的本地动物一种实际上正受欧洲兔子威胁的动物。
en:Haigh&#39;s Chocolate,in collaborationwith the Foundation for Rabbit-Free Australia,stopped all production of the Easter Bunny in chocolateand has replaced it with the Easter Bilby.Now this was done to counterthe annual celebration of rabbitsand presumably make the public more comfortablewith the killing of rabbitsand promote an animal that&#39;s native to Australia,and actually an animal that is threatenedby the European rabbit.
时间： 8:34
zh-cn:在第七章，我着重描述针对某一血统的种族灭绝行为。在两天内这血统的六个人在雷布雷尼察大屠杀中丧生。这是我唯一一个，以视觉方式呈现已经过世的人的作品但我只呈现在雷布雷尼察大屠杀中被杀害的人。这是自第二次世界大战以来在欧洲发生的最大规模的谋杀这次大屠杀期间8,000 个波斯尼亚穆斯林男人和男孩被有计划的处死。
en:In chapter seven, I focus on the effectsof a genocidal acton one bloodline.So over a two-day period,six individuals from this bloodlinewere killed in the Srebrenica massacre.This is the only workin which I visually represent the dead.But I only represent thosethat were killed in the Srebrenica massacre,which is recorded as the largest mass murder in Europesince the Second World War.And during this massacre,8,000 Bosnian Muslim men and boyswere systematically executed.
时间： 9:07
zh-cn:所以，当你仔细地看这个展板你会发现左上角上的男人是坐在他旁边的女子的父亲。她的名字是 Zumra她旁边紧接着是她的四个孩子，四个孩子都在雷布雷尼察大屠杀中丧生了。四个孩子后面接着是 Zumra 的妹妹她后面跟着的是她的孩子们她的孩子们也被杀了我在波斯尼亚期间Zumra 的长子遗骨从万人坑的墓地中被挖掘出来我因此拍摄到了他完整的遗骸。然而，其他人只能由这些蓝色底的照片来代表这些照片呈现的是牙和骨样本用来与从家庭成员的DNA样本作匹配以此来证明他们的身份他们已经全部被体面地安葬，所以剩下的只有这些在“寻找失踪人员国际委员会”保留的蓝色的照片
en:So when you look at a detail of this work,you can see, the man on the upper-leftis the father of the woman sitting next to him.Her name is Zumra.She is followed by her four children,all of whom were killed in the Srebrenica massacre.Following those four children is Zumra&#39;s younger sisterwho is then followed by her childrenwho were killed as well.During the time I was in Bosnia,the mortal remains of Zumra&#39;s eldest sonwere exhumed from a mass grave.And I was therefore able to photographthe fully assembled remains.However, the other individualsare represented by these blue slides,which show tooth and bone samplesthat were matched to DNA evidence collected from family membersto prove they were the identitiesof those individuals.They&#39;ve all been given a proper burial,so what remains are these blue slidesat the International Commission for Missing Persons.
时间：10:02
zh-cn:这些都是万人坑的墓地中挖出个人物品有待家庭成员来辨认。这是Potocharti电池厂的涂鸦荷兰的联合国士兵在等待被处决的时期曾经驻扎在这里其后塞尔维亚的士兵也驻扎在这个电池厂。这是在米洛舍维奇的审判中使用过的视频片段它完整的展现了一个塞尔维亚蝎子军事组织（的成员）接受一名东正教神父的赐福的情景，在这个仪式之后，他们把男孩和男人集合起来并杀死了他们。
en:These are personal effectsdug up from a mass gravethat are awaiting identification from family membersand graffiti at the Potochari battery factory,which was where the Dutch U.N. soldiers were staying,and also the Serbian soldiers laterduring the times of the executions.This is video footage used at the Milosevic trial,which from top to bottomshows a Serbian scorpion unitbeing blessed by an Orthodox priestbefore rounding up the boys and menand killing them.
时间：10:36
zh-cn:第 15 章更多地是一个表演作品我在2009年请求中国国务院新闻办公室挑选一个多代同堂的家庭在这个展览中代表中国出于家庭成员人数的考虑，他们选择了一个北京的大家庭，然后他们拒绝提供他们选择这个家庭的其他理由。这个情况很罕见我没有一张空白的肖像。每个人都出现了。您还可以看到独生子女政策给一个家族带来的变化
en:Chapter 15 is more of a performance piece.I solicited China&#39;s State Council Information Office in 2009to select a multi-generational bloodlineto represent China for this project.They chose a large family from Beijing for its size,and they declined to give meany further reasoning for their choice.This is one of the rare situationswhere I have no empty portraits.Everyone showed up.You can also see the evolution of the one-child-only policyas it travels through the bloodline.
时间：11:10
zh-cn:国务院信息办的前身为中共中央对外宣传办公室它负责中国所有对外宣传工作它通过控制所有在中国工作的外国媒体的活动达到控制中国境外媒体对中国的的宣传和影像传播国务院信息办同时监控互联网并指示本地媒体如何处理任何可能引起争议的问题，包括西藏问题，少数民族问题人权问题、 宗教问题、民主运动问题和恐怖主义的问题。在这个作品的脚注说明展板中我提到这个办公室吩咐我拍摄他们在北京的中央广播电视塔。我也拍下了他们在我离开前给我的礼物袋。
en:Previously known as the Department of Foreign Propaganda,the State Council Information Officeis responsible for all of China&#39;s external publicity operations.It controls all foreign media and image productionoutside of Chinafrom foreign media working within China.It also monitors the Internetand instructs local mediaon how to handle any potentially controversial issues,including Tibet, ethnic minorities,Human Rights, religion,democracy movements and terrorism.For the footnote panel in this work,this office instructed meto photograph their central television tower in Beijing.And I also photographed the gift bag they gave mewhen I left.
时间：11:58
zh-cn:这些都是Hans Frank的后代他是希特勒的个人法律顾问也是波兰被占领后的地方总督这个家族展板中包含了许多空白的画像突出一个人的家族史中复杂的关系缺席的原因包括有些人拒绝参与有些父母自己参加了拍摄但不让他们的孩子参加拍摄因为他们认为孩子太小了，还不能决定是否该参与这次拍摄和展览这个家庭的另一部分人展示了他们的衣服，而拒绝本人现身因为他们不想被人联想到我刚才所说的过去的事情（他们是希特勒的个人法律顾问Hans Frank的后代）。最后，另一个人坐下来背对我最后他还是不愿意参与这个展览，所以我不得不将他的相片像素化，保证没人认出他。
en:These are the descendants of Hans Frankwho was Hitler&#39;s personal legal advisorand governor general of occupied Poland.Now this bloodline includes numerous empty portraits,highlighting a complex relationshipto one&#39;s family history.The reasons for these absencesinclude people who declined participation.There&#39;s also parents who participatedwho wouldn&#39;t let their children participatebecause they thought they were too young to decide for themselves.Another section of the familypresented their clothing, as opposed to their physical presence,because they didn&#39;t want to be identifiedwith the past that I was highlighting.And finally, another individualsat for me from behindand later rescinded his participation,so I had to pixelate him out so he&#39;s unrecognizable.
时间：12:48
zh-cn:在这个作品旁边的脚注说明展板我拍摄了一张官方的阿道夫希特勒邮资邮票和一张英国情报机构仿制的邮票邮票上有Hans Frank的肖像仿制的邮票在波兰发行目的是制造Frank与希特勒之间的摩擦这样希特勒就会想象Frank想篡夺他的权力
en:In the footnote panel that accompanies this workI photographed an official Adolph Hitler postage stampand an imitation of that stampproduced by British Intelligencewith Hans Frank&#39;s image on it.It was released in Polandto create friction between Frank and Hitler,so that Hitler would imagineFrank was trying to usurp his power.
时间：13:10
zh-cn:再次，谈论到命运，我对某些艺术作品中的故事和命运感兴趣这些画是Hans Frank在在第三帝国期间夺取的我对这些画作的消失和出现所带来的影响很有兴趣这些是是达 · 芬奇的&quot;抱银貂的女子&quot;伦勃朗的&quot;好撒玛利亚人风景&quot;以及从未被找回的拉斐尔的&quot;少年画像&quot;
en:Again, talking about fate,I was interested in the stories and fateof particular works of art.These paintings were taken by Hans Frankduring the time of the Third Reich.And I&#39;m interested in the impact of their absence and presence through time.They are Leonardo da Vinci&#39;s &quot;Lady With an Ermine,&quot;Rembrandt&#39;s &quot;Landscape With Good Samaritan&quot;and Raphael&#39;s &quot;Portrait of a Youth,&quot;which has never been found.
时间：13:37
zh-cn:第 12 章讲述的是生于战争中的人，战争的起因与他们无关，却变成了他们的战争这是Ferraz家族和Novaes家族这两个家族间有着血海深仇。此世仇始于1991年在巴西东北部的伯南布哥它造成了20 名家庭成员和40名其他相关人士的死亡，包括雇佣的杀手、无辜的旁观者和朋友这两个家庭的紧张关系可以追溯至 1913 年他们在当地政治权力争斗中产生纠纷过去的20年间他们之间的矛盾愈演愈烈还涉及斩首和两位市长的死亡。在诺瓦郊区首页的Louis Novaes的家的周围安装着防护墙，他是Novaes家族的首领，防护墙上到处是这样的炮塔孔其中用于射击和侦查。
en:Chapter 12 highlightspeople being born into a battle that is not of their making,but becomes their own.So this is the Ferraz familyand the Novaes family.And they are in an active blood feud.This feud has been going on since 1991in Northeast Brazil in Pernambuco,and it involved the deathsof 20 members of the familiesand 40 others associated with the feud,including hired hit men, innocent bystandersand friends.Tensions between these two families date back to 1913when there was a dispute over local political power.But it got violent in the last two decadesand includes decapitationand the death of two mayors.Installed into a protective wallsurrounding the suburban home of Louis Novaes,who&#39;s the head of the Novaes family,are these turret holes,which were used for shooting and looking.
时间：14:34
zh-cn:巴西的东北状态的伯南布哥是这个国家暴力冲突最激烈的地区之一。报复性正义原则，或者说“以牙还牙，以眼还眼”的原则在这里根深蒂固，所以报复性杀人造成这一地区多人死亡。这个故事，像很多我的章节中的故事读起来就像文学作品里的经典情节像是莎士比亚的故事（一样不可思议）。但这却是正在发生的事情，并且将来还会继续发生。我对这种不断重复的故事很感兴趣。然而当我回到家，我得到消息那个家族的一名成员脸上被射了30枪。
en:Brazil&#39;s northeast state of Pernambucois one of the nation&#39;s most violent regions.It&#39;s rooted in a principle of retributive justice,or an eye for an eye,so retaliatory killingshave led to several deaths in the area.This story, like many of the stories in my chapters,reads almost as an archetypal episode,like something out of Shakespeare,that&#39;s happening now and will happen again in the future.I&#39;m interested in these ideas of repetition.So after I returned home, I received wordthat one member of the familyhad been shot 30 times in the face.
时间：15:14
zh-cn:第 17 章是一个与血脉无关的故事一个与历史无关的故事这个故事说的是乌克兰孤儿院收养的孩子们大的16岁，小的 6岁。这部分作品是按照年龄排序的因为我无法将他们按照血缘联系起来。我在那个孤儿院待了12个月，期间只有一个孩子被领养。这些孩子年满16岁就必须离开孤儿院尽管事实上他们经常无处可去。这样的事情在乌克兰经常发生：孩子们一旦离开孤儿院就成为了人口贩卖，儿童色情和卖淫等犯罪的目标。许多人为了生存，不得不从事犯罪活动。他们的自杀率非常高。
en:Chapter 17is an exploration of the absence of a bloodlineand the absence of a history.Children at this Ukrainian orphanageare between the ages of six and 16.This piece is ordered by agebecause it can&#39;t be ordered by blood.In a 12-month period when I was at the orphanage,only one child had been adopted.Children have to leave the orphanage at age 16,despite the fact that there&#39;s often nowhere for them to go.It&#39;s commonly reported in Ukrainethat children, when leaving the orphanageare targeted for human trafficking,child pornography and prostitution.Many have to turn to criminal activity for their survival,and high rates of suicide are recorded.
时间：16:01
zh-cn:这是一个男孩子的卧室。孤儿院的床位不够也没有足够的御寒衣物。孩子们不能经常洗澡因为只有到了10月，孤儿院才供应热水。这是个女孩的卧室。孤儿院长列出了孤儿们最紧迫的需求一台工业用洗衣机和烘干机，四个真空吸尘器，两台电脑，一台视频投影机，一台复印机，冬天的鞋子和一个牙医用的牙钻。这张照片，是我在孤儿院里的一个教室里拍的。我回到家中才翻译出标语的意思标语的意思是：&quot;那些不知道自己的过去的人不配拥有未来。&quot;
en:This is a boys&#39; bedroom.There&#39;s an insufficient supply of beds at the orphanageand not enough warm clothing.Children bathe infrequentlybecause the hot water isn&#39;t turned on until October.This is a girls&#39; bedroom.And the director listed the orphanage&#39;s most urgent needsas an industrial size washing machine and dryer,four vacuum cleaners, two computers,a video projector, a copy machine,winter shoes and a dentist&#39;s drill.This photograph, which I took at the orphanage of one of the classrooms,shows a sign which I had translated when I got home.And it reads: &quot;Those who do not know their pastare not worthy of their future.&quot;
时间：16:43
zh-cn:在这个展览中还有很多章节。这里只是对这一千张多图片作个简单介绍。这长篇累牍的图片和故事形成了一个档案馆。在这图片和文本的累积中我竭力想找到一个模式我努力想像这关于生命的种种故事就像血缘关系本身一样，早已被编写。但这档案存在的意义在于有些无法用言语叙述的东西，就存在于这些文字的字里行间。那就是出生与死亡这无情的存在和生死之间无止境的故事。人们的出生和死亡几乎就像机器一样而这些故事不断地发生。在这里，我思考着这实实在在的积累是否导致着某种形式的进化？还是我们只是一遍又一遍地重复这个过程？
en:There are many more chapters in this project.This is just an abridged renderingof over a thousand images.And this mass pile of images and storiesforms an archive.And within this accumulation of images and texts,I&#39;m struggling to find patternsand imagine that the narratives that surround the lives we leadare just as coded as blood itself.But archives existbecause there&#39;s something that can&#39;t necessarily be articulated.Something is said in the gapsbetween all the information that&#39;s collected.And there&#39;s this relentless persistenceof birth and deathand an unending collection of stories in between.It&#39;s almost machine-likethe way people are born and people die,and the stories keep coming and coming.And in this, I&#39;m considering,is this actual accumulationleading to some sort of evolution,or are we on repeatover and over again?
时间：17:45
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：17:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
