时间： 0:11
zh-cn:当葡萄牙人在 500 年前到达拉丁美洲大陆时，很显然，他们发现了这片神奇的热带雨林。在他们从未见过的多样化生物中，有一种生物很快引起了他们的注意。这种生物，当你切开它的树皮，就会发现一种暗红色的树脂。它是制作布料染色剂的上佳原料。土著叫它“巴西木”，这也是为何这片地方成为“巴西之地”，也就是后来的“巴西”。“巴西”成为了世界上唯一一个以树为名的国家。你可以想象，在巴西，做一个护林员是很拉风的，这只是众多原因之一。
en:When the Portuguese arrivedin Latin America about 500 years ago,they obviously foundthis amazing tropical forest.And among all this biodiversitythat they had never seen before,they found one species that caughttheir attention very quickly.This species, when you cut the bark,you find a very dark red resinthat was very good to paintand dye fabric to make clothes.The indigenous people calledthis species pau brasil,and that&#39;s the reason why this land became&quot;land of Brasil,&quot; and later on, Brazil.That&#39;s the only country in the worldthat has the name of a tree.So you can imagine that it&#39;s very coolto be a forester in Brazil,among other reasons.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:林产品在我们周围随处可见。除了这些产品，森林对气候调节起到非常重要的作用。在巴西，构成雨的70%的水蒸气实际上来自于森林。仅亚马逊雨林就每天向大气蒸发200亿吨水。这比亚马逊河，世界上最大的河，每天注入大海的170 亿吨水还要多，如果我们需要通过烧水来达到同样的蒸发量，我们需要六个月的全球发电总量。所以森林为我们立下了汗马功劳。
en:Forest products are all around us.Apart from all those products,the forest is very importantfor climate regulation.In Brazil, almost 70 percentof the evaporation that makes rainactually comes from the forest.Just the Amazon pumps to the atmosphere20 billion tons of water every day.This is more than what the Amazon River,which is the largest river in the world,puts in the sea per day,which is 17 billion tons.If we had to boil water to getthe same effect as evapotranspiration,we would need six months of the entirepower generation capacity of the world.So it&#39;s a hell of a service for all of us.
时间： 1:51
zh-cn:全世界大概有四十亿公顷森林。这大概是中国、美国、加拿大和巴西的面积总和，基本上是这么个概念。其中四分之三是在温带，仅仅四分之一在热带。但就是这四分之一，十亿公顷，拥有着最丰富的生物多样性，非常重要的是，这片区域拥有高达 50% 的生物质能，即“碳”。我们曾有 60 亿公顷的森林，比我们现在多 50％ — 但那是在 2000 年以前。在过去的 2000 年里，我们总共失去了 20 亿公顷森林。但是在最近的 100 年里，我们失去了其中的一半。那正是当我们将森林砍伐从温带转移至热带。
en:We have in the worldabout four billion hectares of forests.This is more or less China, U.S.,Canada and Brazil all together,in terms of size, to have an idea.Three quarters of thatis in the temperate zone,and just one quarter is in the tropics,but this one quarter, one billionhectares, holds most of the biodiversity,and very importantly, 50 percentof the living biomass, the carbon.Now, we used to havesix billion hectares of forest —50 percent more thanwhat we have — 2,000 years ago.We&#39;ve actually lost two billion hectaresin the last 2,000 years.But in the last 100 years,we lost half of that.That was when we shiftedfrom deforestation of temperate foreststo deforestation of tropical forests.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:大家想一想：在 100 年里，我们所失去的热带森林总量跟我们在 2000 年里失去的温带森林一样多。这就是我们破坏环境的速度。
en:So think of this: In 100 years,we lost the same amountof forest in the tropicsthat we lost in 2,000 yearsin temperate forests.That&#39;s the speed of the destructionthat we are having.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:现在，巴西是解决这个问题关键的一环。我们有仅次于俄罗斯的第二大森林覆盖率，这意味着全世界12% 的森林都在巴西，而这些绝大部分在亚马逊地区。这是我们所拥有的最广的森林，是一片非常广阔的区域。你可以把很多欧洲国家塞进这里来。我们仍有80%的森林覆盖率。这是个好消息。但是在过去 30 年里，我们失去了其中的 15%。按照个速度，用不了不久，我们就会失去亚马逊这个气候调节的天然泵。
en:Now, Brazil is an importantpiece of this puzzle.We have the second largestforest in the world, just after Russia.It means 12 percent of allthe world&#39;s forests are in Brazil,most of that in the Amazon.It&#39;s the largest piece of forest we have.It&#39;s a very big, large area.You can see that you could fitmany of the European countries there.We still have 80 percentof the forest cover.That&#39;s the good news.But we lost 15 percent in just 30 years.So if you go with that speed,very soon, we will loose this powerfulpump that we have in the Amazonthat regulates our climate.
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:在 90 年代末、2000 年初，森林破坏的速度很快并且在加速。（锯子声）（树倒下的声音）每年27000平方公里，也就是270万公顷。相当于每年失去半个哥斯达黎加这么大的森林。
en:Deforestation was growingfast and acceleratingat the end of the &#39;90sand the beginning of the 2000s.(Chainsaw sound)(Sound of falling tree)Twenty-seven thousandsquare kilometers in one year.This is 2.7 million hectares.It&#39;s almost like halfof Costa Rica every year.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:在这个时候 — 这是2003、2004 —我碰巧开始在政府就职。我与其他国家林业部的队友一起，被分配到一个小组去探究森林破坏的原因，并且制定一个全国性的战略改革计划，在当地政、民间组织、商业团体、地方社区的共同努力解决这些问题。
en:So at this moment — this is 2003, 2004 —I happened to be coming to workin the government.And together with other teammatesin the National Forest Department,we were assigned a task to join a teamand find out the causes of deforestation,and make a plan to combat thatat a national level,involving the local governments,the civil society,business, local communities,in an effort that couldtackle those causes.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:我们在不同层面上提出了144条方案。现在我逐一讲解 —开玩笑，只是举例说说我们之后几年的一些举措。首先，我们同国家航天局建立了一个系统，可以监测到哪里的森林正在破坏，几乎是实时的。现在在巴西，我们有DETER系统，每个月，或者每两个月，我们得到森林破坏情况的数据，从而在破坏发生时做出即时反应。这些信息全部是公开透明的，所以其他人可以将信息重复利用到其他独立系统。这让我们得以扣押通过非法途径采伐的140万立方米木料。其中的一部分我们锯开售卖，全部收入归入一个基金，用于资助当地保护项目。这使得我们有更大的行动力，来缉获腐败和违法行为，直接导致700人入狱，甚至包括不少公职人员。接下来，通过连带关系，我们使非法开采的地区无法得到信贷和财政资助。我们越过银行系统与终端用户相连。超市，屠宰场，等等。只要向保护区购买林产品，它们也会被追责。所以连带追责对问题的改善起到了一定效果。同时我们在土地使用权的问题上采取了很多工作。这对解决争端意义重大。我们创造了 5000 万公顷的保护用地，大约是一个西班牙的面积。其中 800 万公顷是土著土地。
en:So we came up with this planwith 144 actions in different areas.Now I will go throughall of them one by one —no, just giving some examplesof what we had done in the next few years.So the first thing, we set up a systemwith the national space agencythat could actually seewhere deforestation is happening,almost in real time.So now in Brazil, we have this system, DETER,where every month,or every two months,we get information onwhere deforestation is happeningso we can actually actwhen it&#39;s happening.And all the informationis fully transparentso others can replicate thatin independent systems.This allows us, among other things,to apprehend 1.4 million cubic metersof logs that were illegally taken.Part of that we saw and sell,and all the revenue becomes a fundthat now funds conservation projectsof local communities as an endowment fund.This also allows usto make a big operationto seize corruption and illegal activitiesthat ended up having 700 people in prison,including a lot of public servants.Then we made the connectionthat areas that have been doingillegal deforestation should not getany kind of credit or finance.So we cut this through the bank systemand then linked this to the end users.So supermarkets,the slaughterhouses, and so onthat buy productsfrom illegal clear-cut areas,they also can be liablefor the deforestation.So making all these connections to helpto push the problem down.And also we work a loton land tenure issues.It&#39;s very important for conflicts.Fifty million hectaresof protected areas were created,which is an area the size of Spain.And of those, eight millionwere indigenous lands.
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:我们看到一些成效。过去的十年里，巴西的森林退化减低了75%。
en:Now we start to see results.So in the last 10 years,deforestation came downin Brazil 75 percent.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 6:51
zh-cn:如果把平均退化率的数值跟过去十年进行比较的话，我们保护了870万公顷的森林，相当于奥地利的面积。更重要的是，这减少了大气中30 亿吨二氧化碳排放量。这是至今为止对于温室气体减排起到积极效应的一个最重要的举措。有人担忧，当我们采取这些减少和遏制采伐的措施时，经济会受到影响。因为你将无法开展一些经济活动。但有意思的是，事实恰恰相反。在这段采伐下降最严重的时期，经济增长平均达到了过去十年的一倍。这给我们上了一课。或许它们毫无关联，恰巧发生在采伐量下降的时期。
en:So if we compare itwith the average deforestationthat we had in the last decade,we saved 8.7 million hectares,which is the size of Austria.But more importantly,it avoided the emissionof three billion tonsof CO2 in the atmosphere.This is by far the largest contributionto reduce greenhouse gas emissions,until today, as a positive action.One may think that when you dothese kinds of actionsto decrease, to push down deforestation,you will have an economic impactbecause you will not haveeconomic activity or something like that.But it&#39;s interesting to knowthat it&#39;s quite the opposite.In fact, in the period when we havethe deepest decline of deforestation,the economy grew, on average,double from the previous decade,when deforestation was actually going up.So it&#39;s a good lesson for us.Maybe this is completely disconnected,as we just learned by havingdeforestation come down.
时间： 7:52
zh-cn:目前全都是好消息、大成就，我们当然引以为豪。但这还远远不够。事实上，当你想想亚马逊 2013 年的砍伐量，就有超过50万公顷。这意味着每一分钟，就有两片足球场大小的森林遭到破坏，去年，就在去年。如果把巴西其他生态群落的砍伐量相加，我们得到的还是全世界最大的森林破坏率。这大概是说，我们既是森林的守护神，同时又是森林的刽子手。所以我们不敢自满，远不能自满。下一阶段，我认为，是争取在2020年，达到巴西境内森林零砍伐。这是我们的下一个目标。
en:Now this is all good news,and it&#39;s quite an achievement,and we obviously should bevery proud about that.But it&#39;s not even close to sufficient.In fact, if you think aboutthe deforestation in the Amazon in 2013,that was over half a million hectares,which means that every minute,an area the size of two soccer fieldsis being cut in the Amazonlast year, just last year.If we sum up the deforestation we havein the other biomes in Brazil,we are talking about still the largestdeforestation rate in the world.It&#39;s more or less likewe are forest heroes,but still deforestation champions.So we can&#39;t be satisfied,not even close to satisfied.So the next step, I think,is to fight to have zero lossof forest cover in Braziland to have that as a goal for 2020.That&#39;s our next step.
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:现在我一直着迷于这种气候改变与森林间的关系。首先，因为 15% 的温室气体排放来源于森林砍伐，所以这是问题的一个重要部分。但同时，森林也是解决方案的一个重要部分，正因我们所知的最有效的解决方案就是沉积、捕捉、储存碳。气候和森林之间还有一种关系，它在 2008 年引起我深思，并因此让我的职业生涯从森林转向为气候变化。我去访问了加拿大，在英属哥伦比亚，同行的还有其他同盟国的林业部门长官，比如加拿大、俄罗斯、印度、中国、美国。在那里，我们认识了啃噬加拿大森林的松树甲虫。我们在这看到的，这些棕黄色的都已经枯死。这都归罪于松树甲虫的幼虫。事实是这些甲虫受冬季寒冷的天气控制。在多年里，我们都没有够多的寒冬来控制甲虫的数量。然而这衍生为一种病害，数亿植株遭到灭顶之灾。所以回来以后，我产生了一个概念：森林事实上是气候改变的最初受害者之一。
en:Now I&#39;ve always been interestedin the relationshipbetween climate change and forests.First, because 15 percent of greenhousegas emissions come from deforestation,so it&#39;s a big part of the problem.But also, forests can bea big part of the solutionsince that&#39;s the best way we knowto sink, capture and store carbon.Now, there is another relationshipof climate and foreststhat really stuck me in 2008and made me change my careerfrom forests to workingwith climate change.I went to visit Canada,in British Columbia,together with the chiefs ofthe forest services of other countriesthat we have a kind of alliance of them,like Canada, Russia, India, China, U.S.And when we were therewe learned about this pine beetlethat is literally eatingthe forests in Canada.What we see here, those brown trees,these are really dead trees.They are standing dead treesbecause of the larvae of the beetle.What happens is that this beetleis controlled bythe cold weather in the winter.For many years now, they don&#39;t havethe sufficient cold weatherto actually controlthe population of this beetle.And it became a diseasethat is really killing billions of trees.So I came back with this notionthat the forest is actuallyone of the earliest and most affectedvictims of climate change.
时间：10:28
zh-cn:我想，如果我能与同僚们成功地抑制森林退化，或许今后我们也将在气候改变的对决中成为洪水、炎热、烈火等其他灾害的手下败将。所以我决定离开林业局，直接致力于气候改变的工作，找到一种方式来思考和理解所面临的挑战，并从此出发。
en:So I was thinking,if I succeed in workingwith all my colleaguesto actually help to stop deforestation,maybe we will lose the battlelater on for climate changeby floods, heat, fires and so on.So I decided to leave the forest serviceand start to work directlyon climate change,find a way to think and understandthe challenge, and go from there.
时间：10:56
zh-cn:现在，气候改变的挑战非常明了。目标是明确的。我们希望全球平均气温的升高控制在 2℃ 之内。有诸多原因，我现在先不详谈。但为了得到这 2℃ 的限制 —也就为我们赢得了生存空间，IPCC — 政府间气候变化专门委员会，限定说到本世纪末，二氧化碳排放量配额是 10000 亿吨。将这个配额分配到每年的话，我们平均每年可以排放110 亿的二氧化碳。一吨的二氧化碳有多少呢？如果一辆小车每天开 20 公里，差不多累积一年的排放量。或者是一趟航班，单程从圣保罗飞往约翰内斯堡或伦敦，单程的排放量。往返就是两吨。110亿吨是我们当下每年排放量的两倍，
en:Now, the challenge of climate changeis pretty straightforward.The goal is very clear.We want to limit the increaseof the average temperatureof the planet to two degrees.There are several reasons for that.I will not get into that now.But in order to getto this limit of two degrees,which is possible for us to survive,the IPCC, the IntergovernmentalPanel on Climate Change,defines that we have a budget of emissionsof 1,000 billion tons of CO2from now until the end of the century.So if we divide thisby the number of years,what we have is an average budgetof 11 billion tons of CO2 per year.Now what is one ton of CO2?It&#39;s more or less what one small car,running 20 kilometers a day,will emit in one year.Or it&#39;s one flight, one way,from São Paulo to Johannesburgor to London, one way.Two ways, two tons.So 11 billion tons is twice that.
时间：12:06
zh-cn:我们当今的排放量500亿吨，还在持续增长。可能在 2020 年达到 610 亿吨。我们需要在 2050 年前把它降低到 100 亿。与此同时，全球人口将从现在的 70 亿增长到 90 亿，经济规模将从 2010 年的60 兆增长到 200 兆。所以我们需要更有效率地把人均二氧化碳排放量从 7 吨降低到每人、每年差不多 1 吨。我们必须做出选择。你是搭乘飞机呢，还是拥有汽车。
en:Now the emissions todayare 50 billion tons, and it&#39;s growing.It&#39;s growing and maybeit will be 61 by 2020.Now we need to go down to 10 by 2050.And while this happens,the population will growfrom seven to nine billion people,the economy will growfrom 60 trillion dollars in 2010to 200 trillion dollars.And so what we need to dois to be much more efficientin a way that we can gofrom seven tons of carbon per capitaper person, per year,into something like one.You have to choose.You take the airplane or you have a car.
时间：12:51
zh-cn:问题来了，我们能够做到吗？这也是我在森林退化研究里碰到的一个同样的问题。问题如此庞大，如此复杂。我们可以做到吗？我觉得可以。试想，森林退化造成了着过去十年里巴西 60% 的温室气体排放。这个数字如今不到 30% 。当今世界，60% 多的排放来自能源。如果我们直接从能源入手，就用我们解决森林退化的手段，可能值得一试。
en:So the question is, can we make it?And that&#39;s the exactly the same questionI got when I was developinga plan to combat deforestation.It&#39;s such a big problem, so complex.Can we really do it?I think so. Think of this:Deforestation means 60 percentof the greenhouse gas emissionsin Brazil in the last decade.Now it&#39;s a little bitless than 30 percent.In the world, 60 percent is energy.So if we can tackle directly the energy,the same way we couldtackle deforestation,maybe we can have a chance.
时间：13:28
zh-cn:所以我们可以做的有五点：首先，我们需要把发展从碳排放中脱离出来。我们并不需要通过砍伐森林来创造工作、农业或者商业利益。我们在降低森林砍伐率的同时就已经证明了经济可以持续增长。能源方面也是如此。第二，我们必须在正确的地方给予奖励引导。今天，每年有 5 千亿元被用于对化石燃料的补贴。为什么不在碳上涨价，贴补给可再生能源？第三，我们需要监测并发布谁在何时何地排放了温室气体，我们得以有针对性地对每一次行为作出反应。第四，我们需要跳跃式发展前进，这意味着，我们不必在得到手机前一定先装个固定电话。同样，我们也不必让 10 亿人口必须先依赖于化石燃料。才能享用清洁能源。第五点，也是最后一点，我们需要和不同的政府、商业、民政组织分担责任。每个人都肩负使命，我们需要大家携手前行。
en:So there are five thingsthat I think we should do.First, we need to disconnect developmentfrom carbon emissions.We don&#39;t need to clear-cut all the foreststo actually get more jobsand agriculture and have more economy.That&#39;s what we provedwhen we decreased deforestationand the economy continued to grow.Same thing could happenin the energy sector.Second, we have to movethe incentives to the right place.Today, 500 billion dollars a yeargoes into subsidies for fossil fuels.Why don&#39;t we put a price on carbonand transfer this to the renewable energy?Third, we need to measureand make it transparentwhere, when and whois emitting greenhouse gasesso we can have actions specificallyfor each one of those opportunities.Fourth, we need to leapfrogthe routes of development,which means, you don&#39;t needto go to the landline telephonebefore you get to the mobile phones.Same way we don&#39;t needto go to fossil fuelsto the one billion peoplewho don&#39;t have access to energybefore we get to the clean energy.And fifth and last,we need to share responsibilitybetween governments,business and civil society.There is work to do for everybody,and we need to have everybody on board.
时间：14:47
zh-cn:最后，我相信未来并非一场宿命，一场商业世界你不得不遵循的宿命。我们需要勇气打破常规，拥抱新的理念，我们需要认识到我们有能力改变常规。在解决巴西森林退化的问题上，我认为我们已经做到了。我希望应对全球气候变化的挑战，我们也能办到。
en:So to finalize,I think the future is not like a fatethat you have to just goas business as usual goes.We need to have the courageto actually change the route,invest in something new,think that we can actuallychange the route.I think we are doing thiswith deforestation in Brazil,and I hope we can do it alsowith climate change in the world.
时间：15:09
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：15:10
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
