时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我叫泰勒 威尔逊，今年17岁，我是一名核物理学家，可能你们很难相信，但我确实是。我想说核聚变就是那个布恩 皮肯斯（他的TED演讲里）谈到能引领我们前进的桥。核聚变就是未来的能源。第二点就是孩子能改变世界。
en:So my name is Taylor Wilson.I am 17 years oldand I am a nuclear physicist,which may be a little hard to believe, but I am.And I would like to make the casethat nuclear fusionwill be that point,that the bridge that T. Boone Pickens talked aboutwill get us to.So nuclear fusion is our energy future.And the second point,making the case that kids can really change the world.
时间： 0:38
zh-cn:你可能会问（掌声）你可能会问我，你怎么知道未来的能源是什么？我14岁的时候造了一个核聚变反应堆，我14岁的时候造了一个核聚变反应堆，这是里面的构造。我开始这项工程时，那是我12，13岁的时候。我决定我要造个星星出来。
en:So you may ask —(Applause)You may ask me,well how do you know what our energy future is?Well I built a fusion reactorwhen I was 14 years old.That is the inside of my nuclear fusion reactor.I started building this projectwhen I was about 12 or 13 years old.I decided I wanted to make a star.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:你们可能会说，现在没有实用的核聚变我没看到过有核发电站采用核聚变。确实是这样。它并没有产生多于我放进去的能量，但是确实产生了一些有趣的事情。我在我的车库里组装起来，现在它在内华达大学雷诺分校的物理系。结合起来我们就得到了氘,氘其实就是氢和多余的一个中子在里面因此这个跟在太阳里面的质子链那个反应很像而且我在很用力地把他们结合在一起当氢原子结合在一起的时候会有一些附属品产生而我就利用了这些附属品
en:Now most of you are probably saying,well there&#39;s no such thing as nuclear fusion.I don&#39;t see any nuclear power plants with fusion energy.Well it doesn&#39;t break even.It doesn&#39;t produce more energy out than I put in,but it still does some pretty cool stuff.And I assembled this in my garage,and it now lives in the physics departmentof the University of Nevada, Reno.And it slams together deuterium,which is just hydrogen with an extra neutron in it.So this is similar to the reactionof the proton chain that&#39;s going on inside the Sun.And I&#39;m slamming it together so hardthat that hydrogen fuses together,and in the process it has some byproducts,and I utilize those byproducts.
时间： 1:43
zh-cn:因此上一年我赢下了国际科学以及工程大会活动的第一名我创造一个取代目前国家安全局使用的探测器花了几千美金我创建了一个比花了几十万美金还敏感的的探测器我在我的车库建造出来的这个东西
en:So this previous year,I won the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair.I developed a detector that replaces the current detectorsthat Homeland Security has.For hundreds of dollars,I&#39;ve developed a system that exceeds the sensitivityof detectors that are hundreds of thousands of dollars.I built this in my garage.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:而且我创建了一个系统去生产医用的同位素与其要求上百万美金的设备我自己在很小规模上创建一个可以生产这些同位素的设备
en:And I&#39;ve developed a systemto produce medical isotopes.Instead of requiring multi-million-dollar facilitiesI&#39;ve developed a device that, on a very small scale,can produce these isotopes.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:你们现在在这个背景上看到就是我们核聚变发生器我在这个发生器的控制板旁边对了,我在我的车库做黄色蛋糕呢因此我们核系统跟伊朗人一样先进因此我不太想承认这是我在CERN,是在瑞士的日内瓦CERN是世界上最杰出的量子物理实验室这是我和总统奥巴马给他展现我的国土安全的研究
en:So that&#39;s my fusion reactor in the background there.That is me at the control panelof my fusion reactor.Oh, by the way, I make yellowcake in my garage,so my nuclear program is as advanced as the Iranians.So maybe I don&#39;t want to admit to that.This is me at CERN in Geneva, Switzerland,which is the preeminent particle physics laboratory in the world.And this is me with President Obama,showing him my Homeland Security research.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:因此呢在这做核试验的十年时间我有了一个梦想我想创建一个“在瓶子中的星星”,一个在我车库里的星星因此我最后和总统见面了然后创建一些可以改变世界的东西而且我希望其他人也可以这样做非常感谢
en:So in about seven yearsof doing nuclear research,I started out with a dreamto make a &quot;star in a jar,&quot; a star in my garage,and I ended up meeting the presidentand developing things that I think can change the world,and I think other kids can too.So thank you very much.
时间： 3:09
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
