时间： 0:11
zh-cn:由于过去这几年由于经济快速发展导致了过度城市化，也带来了严重的边缘化问题，造成了世界各地贫民窟的爆炸性增长。超级富有的飞地周围则是各种贫困区，这种两极分化和由此造成的社会经济上的不平等正是今天的城市危机的重要内容。不过今晚我要指出的是，城市危机不仅仅是经济或者环境因素造成的，它更多的是一场文化的危机，在这场危机中，社会机制无法改变我们一直以来所选择的不明智的增长方式，不敢挑战这种渴望石油的、自私的，基于消费的不断扩张的城市化进程，从南加州，到纽约，到迪拜。所以我只是想跟大家分享我的思考和体会——当今城市的未来不再取决于高楼大厦而事实上，更多地取决于社会经济关系的全新重组；塑造未来城市的好点子不会来自于经济实力强大和富有的飞地，而实际上会来自于那些有矛盾和资源稀缺的区域，那里有着迫切的想象力，可以真正启发我们重新思考今天的城市增长。
en:The urban explosionof the last years of economic boomalso produced dramatic marginalization,resulting in the explosion of slumsin many parts of the world.This polarization of enclaves of mega-wealthsurrounded by sectors of povertyand the socioeconomic inequalitiesthey have engenderedis really at the center of today&#39;s urban crisis.But I want to begin tonightby suggesting that this urban crisisis not only economic or environmental.It&#39;s particularly a cultural crisis,a crisis of the institutionsunable to reimagine the stupid wayswhich we have been growing,unable to challenge the oil-hungry,selfish urbanization that have perpetuatedcities based on consumption,from southern California to New York to Dubai.So I just really want to share with you a reflectionthat the future of cities todaydepends less on buildingsand, in fact, depends moreon the fundamental reorganizationof socioeconomic relations,that the best ideas in the shapingof the city in the futurewill not come from enclaves of economic powerand abundance,but in fact from sectors of conflict and scarcityfrom which an urgent imaginationcan really inspire us to rethink urban growth today.
时间： 1:53
zh-cn:现在让我来具体解释一下为什么说那些有着矛盾的地方充满了创造力，下面我给大家简单介绍一下靠近蒂华纳（墨西哥城市）和圣地亚哥（美国城市）的边境地区，那是我重新思考如何做好一个建筑设计师的实验室。
en:And let me illustrate what I meanby understanding or engaging sites of conflictas harboring creativity, as I briefly introduce youto the Tijuana-San Diego border region,which has been the laboratory torethink my practice as an architect.
时间： 2:12
zh-cn:这是一堵墙，边境墙，两边分别是圣地亚哥和蒂华纳，美国和拉美，这堵墙象征着两边的排他性规划政策，这些政策延续并加剧了世界各地社区之间、司法之间和资源之间的差距。在这个边境地区，我们可以找到一些最昂贵的地产，我曾经在圣地亚哥的边缘看到过，而那距离拉美一些最贫穷的区域仅20分钟车程。这两个城市有一样的人口数量，但是在过去的10年里面，圣地亚哥扩张了近六个蒂华纳的面积。这就使得我们要立即面对由于城市扩张和密度增加带来的紧张和冲突，也就是我们今天要讨论的关于环境可持续性的重要内容。在过去的这些年里，我一直在强调，事实上，圣地亚哥的扩张可以从蒂华纳的贫民窟中学到很多东西，特别是关于社会经济的可持续性，我们应该关注并学习这道边境墙两边的很多移民社区，这样我们就可以把他们的非正式的实践运用到城市化进程中去。
en:This is the wall, the border wall,that separates San Diego and Tijuana,Latin America and the United States,a physical emblemof exclusionary planning policiesthat have perpetuated the divisionof communities, jurisdictionsand resources across the world.In this border region, we findsome of the wealthiest real estate,as I once found in the edges of San Diego,barely 20 minutes awayfrom some of the poorest settlements in Latin America.And while these two cities have the same population,San Diego has grown six times larger than Tijuanain the last decades,immediately thrusting us to confrontthe tensions and conflictsbetween sprawl and density,which are at the center of today&#39;s discussionabout environmental sustainability.So I&#39;ve been arguing in the last yearsthat, in fact, the slums of Tijuana can teach a lotto the sprawls of San Diegowhen it comes to socioeconomic sustainability,that we should pay attention and learnfrom the many migrant communitieson both sides of this border wallso that we can translate their informal processesof urbanization.
时间： 3:32
zh-cn:我这里的“非正式”是什么意思呢？其实我说的只是那些为了适应社会的社会实践的集合，那些社会实践使得很多移民社区能够绕过强加的城市化进程中的政治和经济制度。我说的仅仅是来自底层的创造力，不管是用来自圣地亚哥的垃圾建造的蒂华纳的贫民窟，还是过去十年在南加州的很多重新改造的移民社区。
en:What do I mean by the informal in this case?I&#39;m really just talking aboutthe compendium of social practices of adaptationthat enable many of these migrant communitiesto transgress imposed political and economic recipesof urbanization.I&#39;m talking simply about the creative intelligenceof the bottom-up,whether manifested in the slums of Tijuanathat build themselves, in fact,with the waste of San Diego,or the many migrant neighborhoodsin Southern Californiathat have begun to be retrofitted with differencein the last decades.
时间： 4:09
zh-cn:作为一个艺术家，我一直对测量和观察边境地区的那些跨边境的非正式的流动很感兴趣。一方面，从南到北，移民流入美国，另一方面，从北到南，南加州的垃圾流入蒂华纳。我说的垃圾指的是那些战后平房，墨西哥承包商们把它们拉到边境来，因为美国开发商为了建造一个更加膨胀的郊区，在过去的十年里正在将它们抛弃。看这些就是准备跨越边境的房子。在这里不仅仅是人们在跨越边境，而且一个城市的整块区域也被搬过去，当这些房子被放置于这些钢筋框架上时，它们就从一楼变成了二楼，从而有更多的空间填充进更多的房子作为商业用途。这种空间和经济的分层非常有意思。但是不仅仅是房子，还有一些小的废件从一个城市，从圣地亚哥到蒂华纳。很多人应该看过橡胶轮胎被用于建造贫民窟的挡土墙。但是看看这些人在突发的社会经济状况下是怎么做的。他们学会了把轮胎上的橡胶扯下来，用线穿起来并固定在一起，来打造一堵更有效的挡土墙。还有那些用圣地亚哥的卡车装过来的车库大门则成为了蒂华纳边缘很多贫民窟的紧急住房的外墙。
en:So I&#39;ve been interested as an artistin the measuring, the observation,of many of the trans-border informal flowsacross this border:in one direction, from south to north,the flow of immigrants into the United States,and from north to south the flow of wastefrom southern California into Tijuana.I&#39;m referring to the recyclingof these old post-war bungalowsthat Mexican contractors bring to the borderas American developers are disposing of themin the process of building a more inflated versionof suburbia in the last decades.So these are houses waiting to cross the border.Not only people cross the border here,but entire chunks of one city move to the next,and when these houses are placedon top of these steel frames,they leave the first floor to become the secondto be in-filled with more house,with a small business.This layering of spaces and economiesis very interesting to notice.But not only houses, also small debrisfrom one city, from San Diego, to Tijuana.Probably a lot of you have seen the rubber tiresthat are used in the slums to build retaining walls.But look at what people have done here in conditionsof socioeconomic emergency.They have figured out how to peel off the tire,how to thread it and interlock itto construct a more efficient retaining wall.Or the garage doors that are broughtfrom San Diego in trucksto become the new skin of emergency housingin many of these slumssurrounding the edges of Tijuana.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:虽然作为一个建筑设计师，见证这些有创造性的举动让人非常兴奋，不过我还是不能让自己兴奋过了头。我不希望美化贫困。我只是想说这种非正式的城市化不仅仅是表面看上去的危险的样子，这里的非正式性其实是一系列的社会经济和政治行为，作为艺术家我们可以将其理解为这是一场自下而上的城市化进程。这里楼房的重要性不是体现在它们的外表，而是它们的功能。它们随着时间变化调整，在社区对空间、界限和资源的谈判过程中真正发挥作用。
en:So while, as an architect,this is a very compelling thing to witness,this creative intelligence,I also want to keep myself in check.I don&#39;t want to romanticize poverty.I just want to suggestthat this informal urbanizationis not just the image of precariousness,that informality here, the informal,is really a set of socioeconomicand political proceduresthat we could translate as artists,that this is about a bottom-up urbanizationthat performs.See here, buildings are not importantjust for their looks,but, in fact, they are important for what they can do.They truly perform as they transform through timeand as communities negotiatethe spaces and boundaries and resources.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:垃圾流向南边，同时人们为了发财致富流向北边，我大部分的研究都是关于这些移民对美国的很多社区，特别是圣地亚哥的社区的同质性造成的影响。我要说的是，这意味着南加州的未来取决于对快速城市化的重新改造，要大规模地，引入小的社会和经济项目。我指的是，当移民进入到这些社区的时候，它们开始把简单的物品和居住地改造成更加复杂的社会和经济体，比如在车库开始非常规的经济，或者建造一个非法的给奶奶居住的公寓房以支持一个大家庭。在这些社区里面的这种社会经济创举给我们提供了制定新的，更有包容性的，更公平的土地使用政策的参考。从这些空间改造的活动中涌现出了那么多的故事，比如“非正式的菩萨”，这个故事讲的是一个“活下来”的小房子，它没有被拉到墨西哥，而是被重新改造成了一个佛教寺庙，这样这个小房子摇身一变，从一个单一的住宅变成了社区里面一个小的，微型的，社会经济和文化的基础设施。
en:So while waste flows southbound,people go north in search of dollars,and most of my research has had to dowith the impact of immigrationin the alteration of the homogeneityof many neighborhoods in the United States,particularly in San Diego.And I&#39;m talking about how this begins to suggestthat the future of Southern Californiadepends on the retrofittingof the large urbanization — I mean, on steroids —with the small programs,social and economic.I&#39;m referring to how immigrants,when they come to these neighborhoods,they begin to alter the one-dimensionalityof parcels and propertiesinto more socially andeconomically complex systems,as they begin to plug aninformal economy into a garage,or as they build an illegal granny flatto support an extended family.This socioeconomic entrepreneurshipon the ground within these neighborhoodsreally begins to suggest ways of translating thatinto new, inclusive and more equitableland use policies.So many stories emerge from these dynamicsof alteration of space,such as &quot;the informal Buddha,&quot;which tells the story of a small housethat saved itself, it did not travel to Mexico,but it was retrofitted in the endinto a Buddhist temple,and in so doing,this small house transforms or mutatesfrom a singular dwellinginto a small, or a micro, socioeconomicand cultural infrastructure inside a neighborhood.
时间： 8:20
zh-cn:这些我称之为“行动社区”，它们让我们重新思考和定义“公民”的涵义，“公民”其实和属于哪个国家并不那么相关，而是和维护这样的一个公民概念更相关，即“公民”是人们在城市空间里面重组社会规定的有创意的行为。
en:So these action neighborhoods, as I call them,really become the inspirationto imagine other interpretations of citizenshipthat have less to do, in fact,with belonging to the nation-state,and more with upholding the notion of citizenshipas a creative actthat reorganizes institutional protocolsin the spaces of the city.
时间： 8:43
zh-cn:作为一个艺术家，事实上我一直对“公民”的可视化，收集趣闻轶事和城市里发生的故事很感兴趣，目的是为了能够讲述社会进程和空间之间的关系。这个一个关于一群青少年的故事，一天晚上，几个月前，他们决定侵占高速公路下面的那块空地来建造他们自己的滑板公园。手里拿着铲子，他们就开始挖了。两个星期以后，警察制止了他们。警察把那个地方围了起来，把这群青少年赶了出去，这群青少年决定回击，不是通过银行卡或口号，而是通过一系列的关键行动。他们做的第一件事情就是找出管辖那片空地的政府。他们很幸运地发现他们还没有挖到加州运输局下辖的领土。加州运输局是一个管辖高速公路的政府部门，如果要跟他们谈判就很麻烦了。这群青少年说，他们很幸运因为他们挖的是高速公路延伸出去的一段公路下面的领土，那是属于当地政府的。他们说，他们还很幸运的是，他们开始挖到一个类似百慕大三角的司法管辖区，由港口管理局、机场管理局、两个城市和一个审查委员会组成。所有的这些红线都是那些看不见的管理那块剩下的空地的政治机构。在了解了这些背景资料后，这群青少年作为溜冰者跟这座城市进行了对峙。他们来到了这个城市律师的办公室。律师告诉他们如果要继续谈判，他们必须先成立一个非政府组织（NGO），当然他们完全不知道NGO是什么东西。他们和他们在西雅图的经历过类似事件的朋友进行了交流。然后他们意识到有必要更好地组织自己、筹资、管理资金，更好地了解所有有关圣地亚哥这个城市的知识，这样他们才能开始重新定义城市里的公共空间的真正意义，并把它扩展到其它范畴。最终，这群青少年用那些证据赢得了这唱官司，并且他们还被允许在那个高速公路下面建起了他们的滑板公园。
en:As an artist, I&#39;ve been interested, in fact,in the visualization of citizenship,the gathering of many anecdotes, urban stories,in order to narrativize the relationshipbetween social processes and spaces.This is a story of a group of teenagersthat one night, a few months ago,decided to invade this space under the freewayto begin constructing their own skateboard park.With shovels in hand, they started to dig.Two weeks later, the police stopped them.They barricaded the place,and the teenagers were evicted,and the teenagers decided to fight back,not with bank cards or slogansbut with constructing a critical process.The first thing they did was to recognizethe specificity of political jurisdictioninscribed in that empty space.They found out that they had been luckybecause they had not begun to digunder Caltrans territoy.Caltrans is a state agency that governs the freeway,so it would have been verydifficult to negotiate with them.They were lucky, they said, because they beganto dig under an arm of the freewaythat belongs to the local municipality.They were also lucky, they said,because they began to dig in a sort ofBermuda Triangle of jurisdiction,between port authority, airport authority,two city districts, and a review board.All these red lines are the invisiblepolitical institutions that were inscribedin that leftover empty space.With this knowledge, these teenagersas skaters confronted the city.They came to the city attorney&#39;s office.The city attorney told themthat in order to continue the negotiationthey had to become an NGO,and of course they didn&#39;t know what an NGO was.They had to talk to their friends in Seattlewho had gone through the same experience.And they began to realize the necessityto organize themselves even deeperand began to fundraise, to organize budgets,to really be aware of all the knowledgeembedded in the urban code in San Diegoso that they could begin to redefinethe very meaning of public space in the city,expanding it to other categories.At the end, the teenagers won the casewith that evidence, and they were ableto construct their skateboard parkunder that freeway.
时间：11:09
zh-cn:对你们很多人来说，这个故事可能看上去微不足道或者有些天真。而我作为一个建筑设计师，这对我是一个非常重要的故事，因为它教会我这个微型社区不仅仅创造了另一类的公共空间范畴，他们还创造了这个空间的长期可持续发展所需要的社会经济规则。他们还教会我，就像边境两边的移民社区一样，他们把矛盾转化成了一个有创意的工具，因为他们需要创造这样一个机会让他们能够重组资源和这个城市的政治。通过这样的行动，这种非正式的、自下而上的变动慢慢开始流向上层来影响自上而下的政策。
en:Now for many of you, this storymight seem trivial or naive.For me as an architect, it has becomea fundamental narrative,because it begins to teach methat this micro-communitynot only designed another category of public spacebut they also designed the socioeconomic protocolsthat were necessary to be inscribed in that spacefor its long-term sustainability.They also taught methat similar to the migrant communitieson both sides of the border,they engaged conflict itself as a creative tool,because they had to produce a processthat enabled them to reorganize resourcesand the politics of the city.In that act, that informal,bottom-up act of transgression,really began to trickle upto transform top-down policy.
时间：12:01
zh-cn:这种从自下而上到自上而下的变革正是我今天怀抱希望的理由。我在想，这些在世界各地的空间和政策的变动，主要是出于集体的迫切需要，所以这些社区重新想象他们自己的管理模式、社会组织和基础设施，这些正是城市的民主政治新变化的重要内容。事实上，这些正是可以成为追求城市里的新的社会和经济公平的框架。我想说这一点并强调它，因为我觉得这是今天唯一的可以让我们从消费型的城市化转向生产型的社区的唯一办法。
en:Now this journey from the bottom-upto the transformation of the top-downis where I find hope today.And I&#39;m thinking of how these modest alterationswith space and with policyin many cities in the world,in primarily the urgencyof a collective imaginationas these communitiesreimagine their own forms of governance,social organization, and infrastructure,really is at the centerof the new formationof democratic politics of the urban.It is, in fact, this that could become the frameworkfor producing new socialand economic justice in the city.I want to say this and emphasize it,because this is the only way I seethat can enable us to movefrom urbanizations of consumptionto neighborhoods of production today.
时间：13:02
zh-cn:谢谢！
en:Thank you.
时间：13:04
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
