时间： 0:12
zh-cn:卓有才情的剧作家阿德里安娜·肯尼迪写过一本书“引领我的话剧的人们”。如果让我写这么一本书应该会叫做“引领我的展览的艺术家们”因为我的工作在理解艺术与文化上是来自于追随艺术家们，以了解艺术家们的想法他们在做什么和他们是谁。杰·杰的《好时光》(掌声)对许多人来说意义非凡正是因为他&quot;太棒了&quot;然而也许更有意义的是他实际上是第一位出现在黄金档电视节目上的黑人艺术家。让·米歇尔·巴斯奎特，他对我很重要因为他是第一位黑人艺术家随时告诉我我要去了解的那些人和事情有无可能。
en:The brilliant playwright, Adrienne Kennedy,wrote a volume called&quot;People Who Led to My Plays.&quot;And if I were to write a volume,it would be called,&quot;Artists Who Have Led My Exhibitions&quot;because my work,in understanding art and in understanding culture,has come by following artists,by looking at what artists meanand what they do and who they are.J.J. from &quot;Good Times,&quot;(Applause)significant to many people of coursebecause of &quot;Dy-no-mite,&quot;but perhaps more significantas the first, really, black artiston primetime TV.Jean-Michel Basquiat,important to me because [he was]the first black artist in real timethat showed me the possibility ofwho and what I was about to enter into.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:我的整个项目都是关于艺术的，特别是关于黑人艺术家们的，概括地说是关于艺术通过何种方式改变我们对文化和自身的思考方式。艺术家们让我很感兴趣他们了解并改写历史，他们自我反思通过那些来自于更广阔的艺术世界里所讲述的故事，而不是那些创建新领域让我们去观看和理解的艺术家们。在此，我要介绍两位艺术家，格伦·利根和卡尔·沃克。他们是促成我提出我一直想提出的重要问题的众多艺术家中的两位，当我是一名馆长的时候。我对这些很感兴趣为什么和怎么样我能编一个新的故事一个艺术史上全新的叙事故事和一个世界上全新的叙事故事。为了做成这个，我知道我得去了解艺术家们是如何工作的，把艺术家们的工作室当作实验室一样去了解，然后去想像将博物馆看成是智库，将这些展览视作一张白纸，提出问题并提供思考和找寻答案的空间。
en:My overall project is about art —specifically, about black artists —very generallyabout the way in which artcan change the way we thinkabout culture and ourselves.My interest is in artistswho understand and rewrite history,who think about themselveswithin the narrativeof the larger world of art,but who have created new placesfor us to see and understand.I&#39;m showing two artists here, Glenn Ligon and Kara Walker,two of many who really form for methe essential questions that I wanted to bringas a curator to the world.I was interested in the ideaof why and howI could create a new story,a new narrative in art historyand a new narrative in the world.And to do this, I knewthat I had to see the way in which artists work,understand the artist&#39;s studioas a laboratory,imagine, then,reinventing the museum as a think tankand looking at the exhibitionas the ultimate white paper — asking questions,providing the spaceto look and to think about answers.
时间： 2:26
zh-cn:1994年，我曾任惠特尼博物馆馆长时举办了一个叫做&quot;黑人男性&quot;的展览这个展览关注当代美国艺术中种族与性别的交集。它试图去解释艺术通过何种方式提供了一个对话的平台，复杂的对话，有着多个切入点的对话，还有博物馆是如何成为一个拥有这类对话的场所。展览囊括了超过20名艺术家各年龄、各种族的都有，但他们在关注黑人男性方面有着各自的独特见解。这次展览的重大意义是它给予我我的角色的方式作为馆长，作为媒介，在这场对话中。发生在这次展览中的一件很重要的事就是我直接面对图片能够有多么的震撼以及人们理解自身和彼此。
en:In 1994,when I was a curator at the Whitney Museum,I made an exhibition called Black Male.It looked at the intersectionof race and genderin contemporary American art.It sought to expressthe ways in which artcould provide a space for dialogue —complicated dialogue,dialogue with many, many points of entry —and how the museum could be the spacefor this contest of ideas.This exhibition includedover 20 artistsof various ages and races,but all looking at black masculinityfrom a very particular point of view.What was significant about this exhibitionis the way in whichit engaged me in my roleas a curator, as a catalyst,for this dialogue.One of the things that happenedvery distinctly in the course of this exhibitionis I was confronted with the ideaof how powerful images can bein people&#39;s understanding of themselves and each other.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:在此我要为你们展示两幅作品，右边的是来自于利昂戈·卢布左边的来自于罗伯特科·尔斯科特在这一次的展览中他们备受争议最终，对于我来说改变了生活，改变了我认为的艺术可能是什么，画廊里一位向我走来的女士表达了她对一些本质问题的看法那就是图片能够有多震撼以及我们如何能了解彼此。随后，她指着左边这幅作品告诉我这幅画有着怎样的问题，因为对她来说，这幅画涉及了我们一直以来的是如何描述黑人的。她又指着右边这幅画对我说，这是一个有关尊严的例子需要加以描绘去对抗大众媒体中（所描绘的）形象。然后她指出了这些作品作者的人种，基本上告诉我右边这幅显然是黑人艺术家画的，左边那幅明显是白人艺术家的，实际上恰恰相反。鲍勃科·尔斯科特，非裔美国艺术家利昂·戈卢布，白人艺术家重点是，对我来说，在那个地点，那个时间，我比什么都想要了解这些画怎么会产生作用，怎么样产生的作用，还有艺术家们怎么样通过这些作品提供了一个比我们在日常生活中能想象出来的更广阔的世界。
en:I&#39;m showing you two works, one on the right by Leon Golub,one on the left by Robert Colescott.And in the course of the exhibition —which was contentious, controversialand ultimately, for me,life-changingin my sense of what art could be —a woman came up to me on the gallery floorto express her concern about the natureof how powerful images could beand how we understood each other.And she pointed to the work on the leftto tell me how problematic this image was,as it related, for her, to the idea ofhow black people had been represented.And she pointed to the image on the rightas an example, to me, of the kind of dignitythat needed to be portrayedto work against those images in the media.She then assigned these works racial identities,basically saying to me that the work on the right,clearly, was made by a black artist,the work on the left, clearly, by a white artist,when, in effect,that was the opposite case:Bob Colescott, African-American artist;Leon Golub, a white artist.The point of that for me wasto say — in that space, in that moment —that I really, more than anything,wanted to understandhow images could work, how images did work,and how artists provideda space bigger than onethat we could imagine in our day-to-day livesto work through these images.
时间： 4:54
zh-cn:最终我来到哈莱姆，这里是许多美国黑人的故乡，非常适合从心灵上体验黑人的经历，整个“哈莱姆文艺复兴”曾存在过这里。现在的哈莱姆,算是阐释和思考着它自身，作为这个世纪的一部分，既有回顾，又有展望。我总认为哈莱姆是一个有趣的地方因为，与其他地方不同，哈莱姆同时思考着它的过去，现在和将来。没有人只谈论它的现在。（人们）总在说它过去如何，今后怎样。想到这些，我的第二个项目，也是第二个问题就来了。博物馆能在社会中能作为媒介吗？能让艺术家们住在博物馆里，允许他们成为改革的媒介作为社会的反思者吗？这实际上是，哈莱姆， 在1月20日的深刻的自我反省。
en:Fast-forward and I end up in Harlem;home for many of black America,very much the psychic heartof the black experience,really the place where the Harlem Renaissance existed.Harlem now, sort of explainingand thinking of itself in this part of the century,looking both backwards and forwards ...I always say Harlem is an interesting communitybecause, unlike many other places,it thinks of itself in the past, presentand the future simultaneously;no one speaks of it just in the now.It&#39;s always what it was and what it can be.And, in thinking about that,then my second project, the second question I ask is:Can a museumbe a catalyst in a community?Can a museum house artistsand allow them to be change agentsas communities rethink themselves?This is Harlem, actually, on January 20th,thinking about itself in a very wonderful way.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:因此，现在我在哈莱姆的画室博物馆工作想着那里的展览，思索着它对于找寻着艺术中的可能性的意义。现在，这些对于你们有什么意义呢？有些情况下，我知道许多人融入跨文化的对话之中，你融入在创造和革新的思想中。想想属于艺术家们的地方吧。这正是我所酝酿和宣传的和那些年轻的黑人艺术家们一起工作。想想那些艺术家们，别把他们当成画作的提供者，尽管他们也相当了不起，但是，再想想，他们作为真实的媒介。
en:So I work now at The Studio Museum in Harlem,thinking about exhibitions there,thinking about what it means todiscover art&#39;s possibility.Now, what does this mean to some of you?In some cases, I know that many of youare involved in cross-cultural dialogues,you&#39;re involved in ideas of creativity and innovation.Think about the place that artists can play in that —that is the kind of incubation and advocacythat I work towards, in working with young, black artists.Think about artists, not as content providers,though they can be brilliant at that,but, again, as real catalysts.
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:画室博物馆建于60年代末。我把它建起来，因为在历史上记下这一事件很重要，1968年一个令人难以置信的历史时刻想想自那时发生的一切，想想可能性，我们今天有幸健在的可能性，想象一下这个博物馆从伟大的抗议声中诞生，它对研究历史十分的重要也是这个国家艺术史上非裔美国艺术家们的重要遗产像雅各布·劳伦斯，诺曼·刘易斯，罗马勒·毕尔登。
en:The Studio Museum was founded in the late 60s.And I bring this up because it&#39;s important to locatethis practice in history.To look at 1968,in the incredible historic moment that it is,and think of the arc that has happened since then,to think of the possibilities that we are allprivileged to stand in todayand imagine that this museumthat came out of a moment of great protestand one that was so much aboutexamining the history and the legacyof important African-American artiststo the history of art in this countrylike Jacob Lawrence, Norman Lewis,Romare Bearden.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:当然也带给了我们今天。1975年，穆罕默德·阿里在哈佛大学举办了一场讲座。讲座后，一位学生站起来对他说，“给我们做首诗吧”于是，默罕默德·阿里说：“我，我们”这是一份关于个人和社会的郑重宣言，关于现在的这个空间，这个我的项目所发现的，我的项目所关注的艺术家们及我的项目正试着明确黑人艺术文化运动在21世纪有可能是什么。那对于此刻所有的文化运动来说可能意味这什么，“我，我们”这首诗看起来高瞻远瞩非常重要。
en:And then, of course,to bring us to today.In 1975, Muhammad Aligave a lecture at Harvard University.After his lecture, a student got up and said to him,&quot;Give us a poem.&quot;And Mohammed Ali said, &quot;Me, we.&quot;A profound statement about the individual and the community.The space in which now,in my project of discovery, of thinking about artists,of trying to definewhat might beblack art cultural movement of the 21st century.What that might meanfor cultural movements all over this moment,the &quot;me, we&quot; seemsincredibly prescienttotally important.
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:最后对于我，使这一切成为可能的具体项目是一系列的展览，所有的名称里都带有F这个字母的展览，“自由式”（Freestyle）、“频率”（Frequency）和“流动”（Flow）这些展览已开始发现并且确定了一些现在活跃在艺术界的年轻黑人艺术家们我强烈认为他们将要继续活跃好多年。这一系列展览专门特别地尝试和质疑一个想法，那就是现在把艺术看作媒介在现在这个历史时刻，意味着什么，在这一历史时刻，有什么意义。就在我们定义并重新定义文化的时候，黑人文化，特别是在我的项目中的，而不是一般的文化。我给这群艺术家起了个名字依照的是我在这里说的这些想法叫“后黑派”。为了定义那些前来开始工作的艺术家们，他们一边回顾历史，一边在这一历史性时刻开始工作，。
en:To this end,the specific project that has made this possible for meis a series of exhibitions,all titled with an F —Freestyle, Frequency and Flow —which have set out to discoverand definethe young, black artists working in this momentwho I feel stronglywill continue to work over the next many years.This series of exhibitionswas made specificallyto try and questionthe idea of what it would meannow, at this point in history,to see art as a catalyst;what it means now, at this point in history,as we define and redefine culture,black culture specifically in my case,but culture generally.I named this group of artistsaround an idea, which I put out therecalled post-black,really meant to define themas artists who came and start their work now,looking back at history but start in this moment, historically.
时间： 8:46
zh-cn:这一发现确实很有意义它让我提出了一系新的问题。新的问题是：此时此刻，在美国，作为一名非裔美国人意味着什么？对此，艺术品可以表达什么？博物馆应该建在什么地方，作为一个让我们大家进行艺术对话的场所？真的，最让人激动的是想到那些由年轻艺术家们带来的活力和激情。对我来说这些艺术家的作品不是经常，只是简单地美学创新他们想法新奇，视角独特面向世界，但是，也许更重要的是通过这种激情这种艺术家们建立自己社区作为重要声音的激情使得我们了解现状，还有未来。还让我感到吃惊的是通过这种方法种族的话题可以出现在许多我们没想到的地方。还让我吃惊的是艺术家们工作所采取的方式。这是我为何关注艺术的原因。这是我为可质疑艺术的原因。这是我为何举办展览的原因。
en:It is really in this sense of discoverythat I have a new set of questions that I&#39;m asking.This new set of questions is:What does it mean, right now,to be African-American in America?What can artwork say about this?Where can a museum existas the place for us allto have this conversation?Really, most exciting about thisis thinking about the energy and the excitementthat young artists can bring.Their works for me are about,not always just simplyabout the aesthetic innovationthat their minds imagine, that their visions createand put out there in the world,but more, perhaps, importantly,through the excitement of the communitythat they create as important voicesthat would allow us right now to understand our situation,as well as in the future.I am continually amazedby the way in whichthe subject of racecan take itself in many placesthat we don&#39;t imagine it should be.I am always amazedby the way in which artists are willingto do that in their work.It is why I look to art.It&#39;s why I ask questions of art.It is why I make exhibitions.
时间：10:06
zh-cn:现在，这个展览，正如我所说的,花费了40位青年艺术家8年的时间，对我来说，它是经过深思远虑的。这分析了这一代人要对我们其余的人说些什么的影响也涉及对这些艺术家而言这意味着什么他们既要随着作品走向世界也身处于现实社会中，就像人们观察并思考我们所面临的那些事情。这个展览也对创新精神以及如何培养它进行了思考。想想，特别是在美国城区培养这种精神。
en:Now, this exhibition, as I said,40 young artists done over the course of eight years,and for me it&#39;s about considering the implications.It&#39;s considering the implications ofwhat this generation has to say to the rest of us.It&#39;s considering what it means for these artiststo be both out in the world as their work travels,but in their communitiesas people who are seeing and thinkingabout the issues that face us.It&#39;s also about thinking aboutthe creative spirit and nurturing it,and imagining, particularly in urban America,about the nurturing of the spirit.
时间：10:42
zh-cn:嗯，到哪里了，或许，现在要结束了？对我来说，或许应该在国际背景下重新思考这一文化交流因此这个项目的最后环节叫做“流动”这个想法想要创建一个全球艺术家的真实网络，真的去看，不仅是哈莱姆内外而是关注全世界的。“流动”环节关注所有出生在非洲大陆的艺术家们正如我们之中许多人思考这片大陆思考在21世纪这片大陆对于我们意味着什么，我开始关注通过艺术家，通过艺术作品去想象他们要告诉我们一个怎样的未来他们要告诉我们关于我们的未来，还有他们创造了什么使我们有更多机会了解这片成为更旷阔的对话的一部分的大陆。因此，当我欣赏这些画作的时候
en:Now, where, perhaps, does this end up right now?For me, it is about re-imaginingthis cultural discourse in an international context.So the last iteration of this projecthas been called Flow,with the idea now of creatinga real networkof artists around the world;really looking, not so muchfrom Harlem and out, but looking across,and Flow looked at artists all born on the continent of Africa.And as many of us think about that continentand think about what if meansto us all in the 21st century,I have begun that lookingthrough artists, through artworks,and imagining what they can tell us about the future,what they tell us about our future,and what they create in their sense ofoffering us this great possibility of watchingthat continent emerge as partof our bigger dialogue.So, what do I discover
时间：11:39
zh-cn:我发现了什么？当我思考艺术的时候我想到了什么？我觉得作为馆长的权利不仅是发现新的画作，发现已经存在的作品，而应该是，对自身的探索，以及将展览作为平台可以提供什么，去探讨美、去探讨力量，去探讨我们自身，以及彼此之间的交流。这使得我每天一起床就开始思考这一代黑人艺术家以及世界上的艺术家们。
en:when I look at artworks?What do I think aboutwhen I think about art?I feel like the privilege I&#39;ve had as a curatoris not just the discovery of new works,the discovery of exciting works.But, really, it has beenwhat I&#39;ve discovered about myselfand what I can offerin the space of an exhibition,to talk about beauty, to talk about power,to talk about ourselves,and to talk and speak to each other.That&#39;s what makes me get up every dayand want to think aboutthis generation of black artists and artists around the world.
时间：12:16
zh-cn:谢谢
en:Thank you. (Applause)
