时间： 0:11
zh-cn:如果我们环顾四周很多我们身边的东西都是从石块泥污里开始它们的生命的它们被埋在世界上各个角落的地下当然，现在你已经看不出他跟石头和泥污有什么相似的它们看上去就是摄像机、电脑屏幕让人讨厌的无线话筒而我的这个项目想尝试着要接触的就是这个神奇的转变这就是大家都知道的烤面包机项目它也是受Douglas Adams的这句名言的启发故事发生在“银河系漫游指南”中这个故事所讲述的是一个活在20世纪的人发现自己活在一个奇怪的星球上这个星球上人都只会最原始的技术活于是他就想，是的，他将成为 — 这些村民的—他将成为他们的国王并且帮他们完成社会转型凭借他极好的对技术科学和原理的掌握，但是，他也认识到在没有其他社会资源的条件下，他很难做出一个三明治，更不用说一台烤面包机了。因为这个人不能查阅维基百科。
en:If we look around us,much of what surrounds usstarted life as various rocks and sludgeburied in the ground in various places in the world.But, of course, they don&#39;t look like rocks and sludge now.They look like TV cameras, monitors,annoying radio mics.And so this magical transformationis what I was trying to get at with my project,which became known as the Toaster Project.And it was also inspired by this quotefrom Douglas Adams,and the situation is from &quot;The Hitchhiker&#39;s Guide to the Galaxy.&quot;And the situation it describesis the hero of the book — he&#39;s a 20th-century man —finds himself alone on a strange planetpopulated only by a technologically primitive people.And he kind of assumes that, yes,he&#39;ll become — these villagers —he&#39;ll become their emperorand transform their societywith his wonderful command of technologyand science and the elements,but, of course, realizesthat without the rest of human society,he can barely make a sandwich,let alone a toaster.But he didn&#39;t have Wikipedia.
时间： 1:18
zh-cn:所以我就想，那好，我要试着从头开始做出一台能通电的烤面包机。而且，因为我认为最便宜的电烤面包机也应该是最容易让我逆向制造的，所以我去买了台我能找到的最便宜的烤面包机，把它带回家但是我还是失望的发现这个东西这个我只花了3.94磅买的东西居然有400个不同的部件而且这些部件是由100个以上不同材料构成的。我不想把我余下的生命全部花在这个项目上；我只有大概9个月的时间。所以我就想，那好，我就从5个东西开始入手。这5个东西分别是钢，云母塑料，铜和镍
en:So I thought, okay,I&#39;ll try and make an electric toaster from scratch.And, working on the ideathat the cheapest electric toasterwould also be the simplest to reverse-engineer,I went and bought the cheapest toaster I could find,took it homeand was kind of dismayed to discoverthat, inside this object,which I&#39;d bought for just 3.49 pounds,there were 400 different bitsmade out of a hundred-plus different materials.I didn&#39;t have the rest of my life to do this project.I had maybe nine months.So I thought, okay, I&#39;ll start with five.And these were steel, mica,plastic, copper and nickel.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:于是，从钢铁开始：我们是怎么炼出钢铁的？我去皇家矿业学院访问了力拓集团高级矿物提炼部门的主席，并问道，“你们是怎么做钢铁的？”那个Cilliers教授人很好，他向我介绍了整个提炼过程加上对中学科学的模糊记忆—钢铁应该是由铁炼出来的，所以我就打电话给了一个铁矿厂。我说：“你好，我想要做一个烤面包机，我能到你们那里拿点铁吗?&quot;很不幸的是，当我到那里— 见到了Ray。他在电话里听错了我的意思，他认为我来他那里只是为了做一个画报，所以就没有准备让我下矿井。但对他唠叨一会之后，他还是带我去了。
en:So, starting with steel: how do you make steel?I went and knocked on the doorof the Rio Tinto Chairof Advanced Mineral Extraction at the Royal School of Minesand said, &quot;How do you make steel?&quot;And Professor Cilliers was very kindand talked me through it.And my vague rememberings from GCSE science —well, steel comes from iron,so I phoned up an iron mine.And said, &quot;Hi, I&#39;m trying to make a toaster.Can I come up and get some iron?&quot;Unfortunately, when I got there — emerges Ray.He had misheard meand thought I was coming up because I was trying to make a poster,and so wasn&#39;t prepared to take me into the mines.But after some nagging, I got him to do that.
时间： 2:42
zh-cn:（视频）Ray： 它以前是石炭石灰岩，是由海洋生物在3亿5千万年前在温暖，阳光充足的环境下形成的。当你学地质学的时候，你就能知道这里过去都发生过什么。这里都发生过巨大的变化。
en:(Video) Ray: It was Crease Limestone,and that was producedby sea creatures350 million years agoin a nice, warm,sunny atmosphere.When you study geology,you can see what&#39;s happened in the past,and there were terrific changes in the earth.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:正如你看到的，他们已把这里装扮好准备过圣诞节了。当然，事实上这个矿井已经不工作了，因为，虽然Ray曾是这里的矿工但是这矿井已经被关闭了而且后来又作为一个旅游景点重新开放，因为，很明显它在运营规模上比不上南美洲，澳大利亚，或其他什么地方。但是不管怎样，我还是把铁矿石装到了到我旅行箱里并坐火车把它带了伦敦，之后我又面临一个问题：那好，我要怎样把这个石头变成烤面包机的部件呢？
en:Thomas Thwaites: As you can see, they had the Christmas decorations up.And of course, it wasn&#39;t actually a working mine anymore,because, though Ray was a miner there,the mine had closedand had been reopened as a kind of tourist attraction,because, of course, it can&#39;t competeon the scale of operations which are happeningin South America, Australia, wherever.But anyway, I got my suitcase of iron oreand dragged it back to London on the train,and then was faced with the problem:Okay, how do you make this rockinto components for a toaster?
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:所以我就回去找了Cilliers教授，他告诉我，“去图书馆吧。”然后我就去了我在那翻阅了本科生冶金学教材—但这根本没用因为，当然，书里面实际上并没有提到在没有冶炼厂的情况下该如何炼铁。所以我最后去了科学史图书馆阅读了这本书这是冶金学的第一本教材至少在西方是第一本。在这里你们看见的木雕就是我最终做到的但是我没有风箱，只有一个叶风机。（笑声）在整个项目过程中，我一直有一个感叹，那就是，你越想从小的地方做起，你就得追溯到越远的过去。所以这就是我花了一个白天加一半个晚上提炼这个铁矿之后。我得到了这个东西，这并不是铁。但幸运的是，我在网上找了一个专利就是说可以用微波炉代替工业熔炉。所以在30分钟全功率运作之后，我终于能够完成这个工序。
en:So I went back to Professor Cilliers,and he said, &quot;Go to the library.&quot;So I didand was looking through the undergraduate textbooks on metallurgy —completely useless for what I was trying to do.Because, of course, they don&#39;t actually tell you how to do itif you want to do it yourself and you don&#39;t have a smelting plant.So I ended up going to the History of Science Libraryand looking at this book.This is the first textbook on metallurgywritten in the West, at least.And there you can see that woodcutis basically what I ended up doing.But instead of a bellows, I had a leaf blower.(Laughter)And that was something that reoccurred throughout the project,was, the smaller the scale you want to work on,the further back in time you have to go.And so this is aftera day and about half a nightsmelting this iron.I dragged out this stuff,and it wasn&#39;t iron.But luckily,I found a patent onlinefor industrial furnaces that use microwaves,and at 30 minutes at full power,and I was able to finish off the process.
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:之后，我接下来的—（掌声）接下来我要试着得到的就是铜。同样，这里曾经是世界上最大的铜矿山。现在已经不是了。但是我找到了一位退休的地质学教授把我带了下去。他说，“那好，我会让你从矿井里取些水走。”至于我想得到一些水的原因就是因为流过矿井的水会含有酸性物质矿中的矿物质会渗透并溶解在水里一个很好的例子就是力拓这是他在葡萄牙的一个分厂。正如你所见的，有许多的矿物都溶在了这水里。这东西太多了，以至于现在都成了那些喜欢在酸性，有毒的环境下生活的细菌的家。但是不管怎样，那些我从Anglesey岛上，就是铜矿所在地，带回的水—里面有足够的铜矿这足以让我浇铸出我要的金属插头。
en:So, my next —(Applause)The next thing I was trying to get was copper.Again, this minewas once the largest copper mine in the world.It&#39;s not anymore,but I found a retired geology professorto take me down,and he said, &quot;Okay, I&#39;ll let you have some water from the mine.&quot;And the reason I was interested in getting wateris because water which goes through minesbecomes kind of acidicand will start picking up,dissolving the minerals from the mine.And a good example of this is the Rio Tinto,which is in Portugal.As you can see, it&#39;s got lots and lots of minerals dissolved in it.So many suchthat it&#39;s now just a home for bacteriawho really like acidic, toxic conditions.But anyway, the water I dragged backfrom the Isle of Anglesey where the mine was —there was enough copper in itsuch that I could cast the pinsof my metal electric plug.
时间： 5:53
zh-cn:然后接下来：我去了苏格兰去找云母。云母也是一种矿物，是一种很好的绝缘体能很好的阻隔电流.这是我得到了云母的照片。我今天最后要说的原材料就是塑料。当然，我的面包机需要一个塑料的外包装。塑料包装是便宜电子产品的共同特点。塑料是由石油炼来的，所以我给BP公司打了电话花了大半个小时试图说服他们的公关部门说如果他们能带我去钻油塔，并给我一壶油那简直就太好了。若现在找他们，估计没人理我，因为他们现在有很多事缠身。但是就是当时，他们也没有答应我他们说，“好的，我们会给你回电话。”— 从来没回过。所以我就看了其他做塑料的方法。后来发现，我们除了用由植物演变的石油可以提炼之外，用淀粉也行。这就是我尝试着做土豆淀粉塑料。刚做好时，它看上去很棒。正如你们所见，我把它倒进了模子这模子是用我树干做的这东西刚出来时，看上去很好，因为需要晒干，所以我把它放在了外面，但不幸的是，我再出来看的时候我发现有蜗牛正在吃那些未水解的土豆。
en:So my next thing: I was off to Scotlandto get mica.And mica is a mineralwhich is a very good insulatorand very good at insulating electricity.That&#39;s me getting mica.And the last material I&#39;m going to talk about today is plastic,and, of course,my toaster had to have a plastic case.Plastic is the defining featureof cheap electrical goods.And so plastic comes from oil, so I phoned up BPand spent a good half an hourtrying to convince the PR office at BPthat it would be fantastic for themif they flew me to an oil rigand let me have a jug of oil.BP obviously has a bit more on their mind now.But even thenthey weren&#39;t convincedand said, &quot;Okay, we&#39;ll phone you back&quot; — never did.So I looked at other ways of making plastic.And you can actually make plasticfrom obviously oils which come from plants, but also from starches.So this is attempting to makepotato starch plastic.And for a while that was looking really good.I poured it into the mold, which you can see there,which I&#39;ve made from a tree trunk.And it was looking good for a while,but I left it outside, because you had to leave it outside to dry,and unfortunately I came backand there were snails eating the unhydrolyzed bits of potato.
时间： 7:15
zh-cn:失望之余我决定来点创新。地质学家已经将这个时代命名为—事实上，他们正在争论是否要命名—是否需要取一个新的地质纪元名称叫做“人类世”， 一个属于人类的时代。这样做是因为未来的地质学家可能会在由我们现在埋下的岩层中发现明显的转变。突然间，它会有像切尔诺贝利核电那样的放射污染或者是从1945年开始到现在引爆的2000个左右的核炸弹那样的危害。这可能会是一个毁灭性的灾难—-就像化石可能突然消失一样。所以，我认为应该会有人造聚合体和塑料元素夹杂在岩层中。
en:So kind of out of desperation,I decided that I could think laterally.And geologists have actually christened —well, they&#39;re debating whether to christen —the age that we&#39;re living in —they&#39;re debating whether to make it a new geological epochcalled the Anthropocene, the age of Man.And that&#39;s because geologists of the futurewould kind of see a sharp shiftin the strata of rock that is being laid down now.So suddenly, it will become kind of radioactive from Chernobyland the 2,000 or so nuclear bombsthat have been set off since 1945.And there&#39;d also be an extinction event —like fossils would suddenly disappear.And also, I thoughtthat there would besynthetic polymers,plastics, embedded in the rock.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:所以我查阅了一种塑料—我决定去开采一下一些现代岩石。我去了曼彻斯特造访了一个叫Axion Recycling的地方那儿的人正处在一个叫WEEE项目中的最艰难的阶段，WEEE是“欧洲电子电器垃圾”官方指南。这个项目正在实施目的是处理堆积如山的电子垃圾这些东西一般是刚做出来被我们买回家用一段时间但他们很快就被人送去了垃圾填埋场事实就是这样
en:So I looked up a plastic —so I decided that I could minesome of this modern-day rock.And I went up to Manchesterto visit a place called Axion Recycling.And they&#39;re at the sharp end of what&#39;s called the WEEE,which is this European electrical and electronic waste directive.And that was brought into forceto try and deal with the mountain of stuffthat is just being madeand then living for a while in our homesand then going to landfill.But this is it.
时间： 8:42
zh-cn:音乐响起
en:(Music)
时间： 9:43
zh-cn:笑声一片
en:(Laughter)
时间： 9:45
zh-cn:这儿有一副图片是我的烤面包机（鼓掌）它没有壳子这儿，它被安放在架子上谢谢
en:So there&#39;s a pictureof my toaster.(Applause)That&#39;s it without the case on.And there it is on the shelves.Thanks.
时间：10:01
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：10:05
zh-cn:Bruno Giussani: 我听说你有一次没有接入电源插进去？
en:Bruno Giussani: I&#39;m told you did plug it in once.
时间：10:07
zh-cn:呃，是的，我没有把它接入进去我不知道这样你是否能看得见不过我一向不会做电线外的绝缘材料Kew 庄园的人很顽固所以我不能去砍他们家的橡胶树来弄点绝缘材料所以，这些电线都是不绝缘的这儿有240伏的电压将要通过这些自制的铜电线通过自制的插座大约五秒过后烤面包机运作起来了，但是，不幸的是这些电器元件自熔了不过，说实话，我仍当作这是部分成功
en:TT: Yeah, I did plug it in.I don&#39;t know if you could see,but I was never able to make insulation for the wires.Kew Gardens were insistentthat I couldn&#39;t come and hack into their rubber tree.So the wires were uninsulated.So there was 240 voltsgoing through these homemade copper wires,homemade plug.And for about five seconds,the toaster toasted,but then, unfortunately,the element kind of melted itself.But I considered it a partial success, to be honest.
时间：10:39
zh-cn:®谢谢
en:BG: Thomas Thwaites. TT: Thanks.
