时间： 0:11
zh-cn:让我们从一些好消息开始吧，而这些好消息与我们所了解的生物医学研究有关这些生物医学研究其实已经改变了许多重症的治愈结果。
en:So let&#39;s start with some good news,and the good news has to do with what do we knowbased on biomedical researchthat actually has changed the outcomesfor many very serious diseases?
时间： 0:25
zh-cn:让我们先来谈谈白血病，急性淋巴细胞白血病，缩写ALL，是一种在儿童中最常见的癌症类型。当我是学生时，它的死亡率是 95%左右。30年后的今天，我们所谈论的(ALL) 的死亡率已经降低了 85%。每年有6000名原本会死于白血病的患儿，现今得以治愈如果你想要更有说服力的数字，让我们来看看心脏病的数据心脏病曾经是最大的杀手，尤其是对于40 多岁的男子。如今，我们可以看到心脏病的死亡率减少了 63 %，成就是如此显著，每年减少110万起心脏病死亡数更难以置信的是，艾滋病，在上个月里刚被定义为一种慢性疾病，也就是说一个20岁感染艾滋病毒的人，要是在十年前，人们会觉得他活不过几周几个月，至多几年，但现在被认为会再活数十年，也许会在他六七十岁时死于其他并发症。对于这些&quot;致命杀手&quot;而言，这些都是非常显著的变化。特别值得一提的是你大概不大清楚 —-中风，一般伴随心脏病，是本国最大健康杀手之一，也是现在我们所知道的一种疾病如果病人能在发病3小时之内得到紧急医治，大约 30%的病人能在出院时，不留任何残疾或后遗症。
en:Let&#39;s start with leukemia,acute lymphoblastic leukemia, ALL,the most common cancer of children.When I was a student,the mortality rate was about 95 percent.Today, some 25, 30 years later, we&#39;re talking abouta mortality rate that&#39;s reduced by 85 percent.Six thousand children each yearwho would have previously died of this disease are cured.If you want the really big numbers,look at these numbers for heart disease.Heart disease used to be the biggest killer,particularly for men in their 40s.Today, we&#39;ve seen a 63-percent reduction in mortalityfrom heart disease —remarkably, 1.1 million deaths averted every year.AIDS, incredibly, has just been named,in the past month, a chronic disease,meaning that a 20-year-old who becomes infected with HIVis expected not to live weeks, months, or a couple of years,as we said only a decade ago,but is thought to live decades,probably to die in his &#39;60s or &#39;70s from other causes altogether.These are just remarkable, remarkable changesin the outlook for some of the biggest killers.And one in particularthat you probably wouldn&#39;t know about, stroke,which has been, along with heart disease,one of the biggest killers in this country,is a disease in which now we knowthat if you can get people into the emergency roomwithin three hours of the onset,some 30 percent of them will be able to leave the hospitalwithout any disability whatsoever.
时间： 1:57
zh-cn:多么非凡的成就，令人振奋的故事!所有这一切都归功于我们对这些疾病的研究和认识，可以让我们去“早发现”和“早治疗”。在“早发现”和“早治疗”方面的进步，是取得上述成果的关键。
en:Remarkable stories,good-news stories,all of which boil down to understandingsomething about the diseases that has allowed usto detect early and intervene early.Early detection, early intervention,that&#39;s the story for these successes.
时间： 2:17
zh-cn:不幸的是，并非全都是好消息。我们来谈谈另外一个故事，与自杀有关。当然，就自杀本身而言，它不是一种疾病，是一种状况或是一种现象，最终导致死亡。你可能没有意识到这种现象是多么的普遍，在美国,每年有38000起自杀事件发生，这意味着每15分钟就有一起。在导致青少年死亡的常见原因中排名第三位。这是多么的令人震惊自杀是谋杀数量的两倍是更为普遍的死亡来源比本国交通事故的死亡数还要高。现在，当我们讨论自杀，不能忽视医学可能带来的改善，因为 90%的自杀事件与精神疾病有关：如抑郁症、 躁郁症、 精神分裂症、厌食症，边缘人格等等（请回忆“早发现”和“早治疗”）许多精神失常的症状往往出现在幼年期。
en:Unfortunately, the news is not all good.Let&#39;s talk about one other storywhich has to do with suicide.Now this is, of course, not a disease, per se.It&#39;s a condition, or it&#39;s a situationthat leads to mortality.What you may not realize is just how prevalent it is.There are 38,000 suicides each year in the United States.That means one about every 15 minutes.Third most common cause of death amongst peoplebetween the ages of 15 and 25.It&#39;s kind of an extraordinary story when you realizethat this is twice as common as homicideand actually more common as a source of deaththan traffic fatalities in this country.Now, when we talk about suicide,there is also a medical contribution here,because 90 percent of suicidesare related to a mental illness:depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia,anorexia, borderline personality. There&#39;s a long listof disorders that contribute,and as I mentioned before, often early in life.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:这些症状不仅对应着死亡的最终结果，也对应着疾病的悄然萌发。以&quot;罹患&quot;为例，世界卫生组织是以&quot;罹患调整寿命年&quot;为指标，它是一个除了经济学家不会有其他人能设计出来的指标，用来衡量从发病到死亡所损失的健康寿命年换言之，承受疾病负担的年数，如你所见，几乎有30 %因接受医疗而从此被认定为“罹患”是属于精神疾病，神经精神性综合症。
en:But it&#39;s not just the mortality from these disorders.It&#39;s also morbidity.If you look at disability,as measured by the World Health Organizationwith something they call the Disability Adjusted Life Years,it&#39;s kind of a metric that nobody would think ofexcept an economist,except it&#39;s one way of trying to capture what is lostin terms of disability from medical causes,and as you can see, virtually 30 percentof all disability from all medical causescan be attributed to mental disorders,neuropsychiatric syndromes.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:你可能没想到精神疾病会排在第一，你或许觉得癌症更严重，还有心脏病!但你可以看到在这张图表上它们排在精神疾病之后，这是因为我们在说罹患（而不是死亡率）。是什么引起了这些精神障碍表现出精神分裂,，躁郁和抑郁的症状?为什么他们排在第一位?
en:You&#39;re probably thinking that doesn&#39;t make any sense.I mean, cancer seems far more serious.Heart disease seems far more serious.But you can see actually they are further down this list,and that&#39;s because we&#39;re talking here about disability.What drives the disability for these disorderslike schizophrenia and bipolar and depression?Why are they number one here?
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:这里大概有三个原因：首先是这些疾病非常普遍。约有1/5的人在有生之年会患上此类疾病。其次，对一部分患上此病的人来说，成为永久性残疾，大约 4% 至5%，也就是20人中就有1个。但真正导致这么高的发病率，换言之，这么高的死亡率，是因为发病时间早。50%的病人从14岁起患病，75 %的病人从24岁起患病，与传统的疾病观念不同如果你在谈论癌症、心脏病糖尿病、 高血压 — — 这些疾病被认为是发病率和死亡的来源。而精神疾病，却是折磨年轻人的慢性病。
en:Well, there are probably three reasons.One is that they&#39;re highly prevalent.About one in five people will suffer from one of these disordersin the course of their lifetime.A second, of course, is that, for some people,these become truly disabling,and it&#39;s about four to five percent, perhaps one in 20.But what really drives these numbers, this high morbidity,and to some extent the high mortality,is the fact that these start very early in life.Fifty percent will have onset by age 14,75 percent by age 24,a picture that is very different than what one would seeif you&#39;re talking about cancer or heart disease,diabetes, hypertension — most of the major illnessesthat we think about as being sources of morbidity and mortality.These are, indeed, the chronic disorders of young people.
时间： 5:08
zh-cn:在演讲开始时，我告诉你们一些好的消息。它们显然不在其中。这也许是最难攻克的那部分，并且，在某种意义上说是我的告白。我的工作就是要为精神疾病的研究带来实质的进展。我为联邦政府工作，实际上，是为你们工作，是你们付我薪水。此时你已经知道我是做什么的，也知道了我在工作上没有取得成果，如果你觉得我应该被解雇，我会完全理解。但我想要说的，和我在这里的原因就是想告诉你，我们将要进入一个认识精神疾病的全新领域。
en:Now, I started by telling you that there were some good-news stories.This is obviously not one of them.This is the part of it that is perhaps most difficult,and in a sense this is a kind of confession for me.My job is to actually make sure that we make progresson all of these disorders.I work for the federal government.Actually, I work for you. You pay my salary.And maybe at this point, when you know what I do,or maybe what I&#39;ve failed to do,you&#39;ll think that I probably ought to be fired,and I could certainly understand that.But what I want to suggest, and the reason I&#39;m hereis to tell you that I think we&#39;re about to bein a very different world as we think about these illnesses.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:到目前为止，我所说的被称为精神失常，是神志上的疾病。如今，精神病已经让人&quot;谈虎色变&quot;顾及到病人的感受或其他原因，便采用&quot;行为障碍&quot;这一委婉说法和对不正常行为的的讨论。倒也讲得过去，疾病的表现形式是行为失常，也是精神失常。但是今天我要告诉诸位正是这两种说法，主导医界长达一个多世纪，正在阻碍精神疾病的研究进展，若要从理念上突破精神疾病研究则需要重新命名为大脑失常。
en:What I&#39;ve been talking to you about so far is mental disorders,diseases of the mind.That&#39;s actually becoming a rather unpopular term these days,and people feel that, for whatever reason,it&#39;s politically better to use the term behavioral disordersand to talk about these as disorders of behavior.Fair enough. They are disorders of behavior,and they are disorders of the mind.But what I want to suggest to youis that both of those terms,which have been in play for a century or more,are actually now impediments to progress,that what we need conceptually to make progress hereis to rethink these disorders as brain disorders.
时间： 6:30
zh-cn:现在，你们中的一些人会说：“哦， 我的天啊，又来了，我们将要听到关于生化失衡，或者药品知识，或是一些非常简单的概念，(这些概念)只是凭借我们主观的经验，把他们想象成生化分子，以某种极其简单的定向思维来解释造成抑郁症或精神分裂症的原因。
en:Now, for some of you, you&#39;re going to say,&quot;Oh my goodness, here we go again.We&#39;re going to hear about a biochemical imbalanceor we&#39;re going to hear about drugsor we&#39;re going to hear about some very simplistic notionthat will take our subjective experienceand turn it into molecules, or maybe into some sort ofvery flat, unidimensional understandingof what it is to have depression or schizophrenia.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:当我们谈论大脑时，绝非一维和简化。当然，这取决于以什么尺度或什么范畴来谈此事，它是一个极其复杂的器官，我们对它的了解才刚刚起步还谈不上研究它，无论是对大脑皮层上1000 亿的神经元，还是连结各个“ 交通枢纽”的100 兆的神经突触，我们刚刚开始，试图找出答案：我们如何运用大脑这个能够处埋惊人信息的非凡机器，同时使用我们自己的头脑来解释这个非凡的大脑是如何支配我们的行为。听上去十分跷舌，又很滑稽的理论，好象我们的大脑发育不够健全，连自己都不了解自己~从某种意义上讲，大脑有时让你感觉到，在研究已知的行为或认知尤其是对你可以观察到的东西时，它是简单直观的，而不是让人费解 ，神秘的器官，使我们刚刚萌生兴趣。
en:When we talk about the brain, it is anything butunidimensional or simplistic or reductionistic.It depends, of course, on what scaleor what scope you want to think about,but this is an organ of surreal complexity,and we are just beginning to understandhow to even study it, whether you&#39;re thinking aboutthe 100 billion neurons that are in the cortexor the 100 trillion synapsesthat make up all the connections.We have just begun to try to figure outhow do we take this very complex machinethat does extraordinary kinds of information processingand use our own minds to understandthis very complex brain that supports our own minds.It&#39;s actually a kind of cruel trick of evolutionthat we simply don&#39;t have a brainthat seems to be wired well enough to understand itself.In a sense, it actually makes you feel thatwhen you&#39;re in the safe zone of studying behavior or cognition,something you can observe,that in a way feels more simplistic and reductionisticthan trying to engage this very complex, mysterious organthat we&#39;re beginning to try to understand.
时间： 8:14
zh-cn:现在，对于“大脑失常”正如我前面所说的抑郁症，强迫症，创伤后应激障碍，虽然我们还不甚了解大脑是如何失灵，或病发后做何处理，但我们已经能够辨别出脑部神经在连接上的差异或者脑部神经路线异样这些神志错乱病人的通常症状。我们把这称之为脑部神经连接组，你可以把它想象成大脑的线路连接图，下面会多次提到的。重要一点是，当提及这些病人，每五个健康人中就有一个，不同程度的患有精神疾病，你可以发现大脑出现变异情况是多么的纷繁复杂但我们还是了解到一些可预测的模式，可以预测到发病倾向。我所说的大脑失常与平时常见的稍有不同，像亨廷顿氏症或帕金森症或老年痴呆症等，是部分大脑皮层缺损。而这里我们谈论是交通堵塞，或是绕道而行，或只是连接方式出了问题，或大脑功能性障碍。你可以这样，如果一定要比较的话，那就想象心肌梗塞、突发性心脏病，是由于心脏中坏死组织所致，还有心律失常、心脏运行不正常，是由于其内部的输导功能出了问题。任何一种病症都会导致死亡，但只有一项是主要病变。
en:Now, already in the case of the brain disordersthat I&#39;ve been talking to you about,depression, obsessive compulsive disorder,post-traumatic stress disorder,while we don&#39;t have an in-depth understandingof how they are abnormally processedor what the brain is doing in these illnesses,we have been able to already identifysome of the connectional differences, or some of the waysin which the circuitry is differentfor people who have these disorders.We call this the human connectome,and you can think about the connectomesort of as the wiring diagram of the brain.You&#39;ll hear more about this in a few minutes.The important piece here is that as you begin to lookat people who have these disorders, the one in five of uswho struggle in some way,you find that there&#39;s a lot of variationin the way that the brain is wired,but there are some predictable patterns, and those patternsare risk factors for developing one of these disorders.It&#39;s a little different than the way we think about brain disorderslike Huntington&#39;s or Parkinson&#39;s or Alzheimer&#39;s diseasewhere you have a bombed-out part of your cortex.Here we&#39;re talking about traffic jams, or sometimes detours,or sometimes problems with just the way that things are connectedand the way that the brain functions.You could, if you want, compare this to,on the one hand, a myocardial infarction, a heart attack,where you have dead tissue in the heart,versus an arrhythmia, where the organ simply isn&#39;t functioningbecause of the communication problems within it.Either one would kill you; in only one of themwill you find a major lesion.
时间： 9:45
zh-cn:除了想象，最好还是举个实例，个例分析， 是精神分裂症。我觉得这是个非常好的例子，揭示进行大脑失常研究的深远意义。国家精神健康研究所茱蒂和她的同事们提供了这些研究扫描图，他们研究了存在精神分裂症迹象的儿童，你已经能看到在顶部，那些红色、橙色、黄色的区域，取代了应有的灰质，随后追踪了五年多，再进行年龄匹配对照，你可以看到，特别是在延髓背外侧前额叶皮层或上级颞回，(这些孩子的)大脑灰质严重缺损。这些非常重要，如果通过建模进行量化，你可以理解在正常发育中大脑皮层质量是会减少，或是灰质轻微损失，但精神分裂症患者的这些损失量超标，在某些时候，正是超过这个标准值，我们说这个人患有精神分裂症，此时他的行为异常，多数呈现出幻觉和妄想，这些我们肉眼所能观察到的异常行为，但仔细看看这个图，你会发现其实他们跨过了不同的标准值，而且出现得很早，并不是在（行为失常的）22岁或20岁，其实在15岁或16岁已经出现明显迹象，发展轨迹大不相同，这是从大脑发育来说的，而不是指（后期的）行为方式，
en:As we think about this, probably it&#39;s better to actually goa little deeper into one particular disorder, and that would be schizophrenia,because I think that&#39;s a good casefor helping to understand why thinking of this as a brain disorder matters.These are scans from Judy Rapoport and her colleaguesat the National Institute of Mental Healthin which they studied children with very early onset schizophrenia,and you can see already in the topthere&#39;s areas that are red or orange, yellow,are places where there&#39;s less gray matter,and as they followed them over five years,comparing them to age match controls,you can see that, particularly in areas likethe dorsolateral prefrontal cortexor the superior temporal gyrus, there&#39;s a profound loss of gray matter.And it&#39;s important, if you try to model this,you can think about normal developmentas a loss of cortical mass, loss of cortical gray matter,and what&#39;s happening in schizophrenia is that you overshoot that mark,and at some point, when you overshoot,you cross a threshold, and it&#39;s that thresholdwhere we say, this is a person who has this disease,because they have the behavioral symptomsof hallucinations and delusions.That&#39;s something we can observe.But look at this closely and you can see that actually they&#39;ve crossed a different threshold.They&#39;ve crossed a brain threshold much earlier,that perhaps not at age 22 or 20,but even by age 15 or 16 you can begin to seethe trajectory for development is quite differentat the level of the brain, not at the level of behavior.
时间：11:10
zh-cn:为什么这件事情非常重要呢? 首先，对于大脑紊乱，行为异常是最后的症状，我们知道，对于老年痴呆症,帕金森症和亨廷顿氏症，患者的大脑在十年前或更早，无任何迹象时已经发生了变化。我们现有的仪器已经可以很早检测出这些变化，远远早于症状的出现。但最重要的是，回到我们开始讲述的医学中的良好实践：“早发现”， “早治疗”。如果我们一直等到心脏病发作再治疗，每年将会有110万人死于心脏疾病。这正是我们今天的状况，当我们发现某人有精神疾病，脑残或行为障碍等，直到他们的异常行为显而易见时才釆取措施。这不是“早发现”，也无法“早治疗”。
en:Why does this matter? Well first because,for brain disorders, behavior is the last thing to change.We know that for Alzheimer&#39;s, for Parkinson&#39;s, for Huntington&#39;s.There are changes in the brain a decade or morebefore you see the first signs of a behavioral change.The tools that we have now allow us to detectthese brain changes much earlier, long before the symptoms emerge.But most important, go back to where we started.The good-news stories in medicineare early detection, early intervention.If we waited until the heart attack,we would be sacrificing 1.1 million livesevery year in this country to heart disease.That is precisely what we do todaywhen we decide that everybody with one of these brain disorders,brain circuit disorders, has a behavioral disorder.We wait until the behavior becomes manifest.That&#39;s not early detection. That&#39;s not early intervention.
时间：12:10
zh-cn:确实，攻克精神疾病的时机尚未成熟，我们还不淸楚所有病因，我们甚至没有有效的检测仪器，也不知道去检测什么，能够在行为异常出现前阻止病变。但目前的研究成果已经为我们指明方向。
en:Now to be clear, we&#39;re not quite ready to do this.We don&#39;t have all the facts. We don&#39;t actually even knowwhat the tools will be,nor what to precisely look for in every case to be ableto get there before the behavior emerges as different.But this tells us how we need to think about it,and where we need to go.
时间：12:30
zh-cn:我们会达到彼岸吗?我的答案是肯定的，在接下来的几年里，我想用这段话结束并预测研究的进展，它是由一个想用观念和技术改变世界的狂人所说的：
en:Are we going to be there soon?I think that this is something that will happenover the course of the next few years, but I&#39;d like to finishwith a quote about trying to predict how this will happenby somebody who&#39;s thought a lot about changesin concepts and changes in technology.
时间：12:44
zh-cn:“我们总是高估今后两年的变化，但是低估未来十年的变化”— — 比尔 · 盖茨
en:&quot;We always overestimate the change that will occurin the next two years and underestimatethe change that will occur in the next 10.&quot; — Bill Gates.
时间：12:53
zh-cn:非常感谢。（掌声）
en:Thanks very much.(Applause)
