时间： 0:12
zh-cn:你叫什么来着。（观众：霍华德，霍华德。）
en:I don&#39;t know your name. Audience Member: Howard. Howard.
时间： 0:14
zh-cn:汤姆·梅恩：霍华德？我正坐在霍华德旁边。显然，我不认识他。哦，他要走了，你们可别丢下我。
en:Thom Mayne: Howard? I&#39;m sitting next to Howard. I don&#39;t know Howard, obviously,and he&#39;s going, I hope you&#39;re not next.
时间： 0:21
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:不错，演得还挺像样。我差不多把脑袋清空了才演成那样。还有，但是——让我理理头绪。我喜欢——我的工作其实和这差不多，但用不着四处走动。我不用肢体语言表现时间空间我在矿物世界工作，尽和些毫无生气的材料打交道。对它们进行重新组合。我的工作还与...就那舞蹈公司来说吧，因为建筑师和舞蹈公司比起来，说到底是个人世界，个人的概念世界，思想世界，灵感世界以及创造世界与外部世界，各种限制以及怀疑论者进行的一场较量。因为我必须说，我的整个职业生涯中如果有一件事是贯穿始终的，那就是“你不能这么干”。不论我以往作品如何，多么努力地说服所有人，每个人都说，“不可能成功的”。当我的主意，想法与各种现实相遇，这种“不可能”从未缺席。
en:Amazing. Amazing performance.I kind of erased everything in my brain to follow that.Let me start some place. I&#39;m interested —I kind of do the same thing, but I don&#39;t move my body. (Laughter)And instead of using human figures to develop ideas of time and space,I work in the mineral world. I work with more or less inert matter.And I organize it. And, well, it&#39;s also a bit differentbecause an architect versus, let&#39;s say, a dance companyfinally is a negotiation between one&#39;s private world,one&#39;s conceptual world, the world of ideas, the world of aspirations,of inventions, with the relationship of the exterior worldand all the limitations, the naysayers.Because I have to say, for my whole career,if there&#39;s anything that&#39;s been consistent, it&#39;s been that you can&#39;t do it.No matter what I&#39;ve done, what I&#39;ve tried to do,everybody says it can&#39;t be done.And it&#39;s continuous across the complete spectrum of the variouskind of realities that you confront with your ideas.
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:作为建筑师，你得想尽办法左右斡旋，一边是非常个人、自我的思想，另一边是外部世界最终目标是让人们理解你的观点。我可以从任何地方说起，因为这个过程还——我觉得——和一些上午会议很不一样，那个时段你的想法非常清晰连贯，就像是刚才，和霍华德的那段儿我觉得建筑中的创造过程以及设计过程，及其迂回蜿蜒。迷宫一般。正如卡尔维诺的观点，两点之间的最快通道一定是迂回的，而不是笔直的我的人生就正是如此。我要从一些简单的概念带出我们工作的一系列流程
en:And to be an architect, somehow you have to negotiate between left and right,and you have to negotiate between this very private place where ideas take placeand the outside world, and then make it understood.I can start any number of places, because this process is also —I think — very different from some of the morning sessions,which you had such a kind of very clear, such a lineal idea,like the last one, say, with Howard,that I think the creative process in architecture,the design process, is extremely circuitous. It&#39;s labyrinthine.It&#39;s Calvino&#39;s idea of the quickest way between two pointsis the circuitous line, not the straight line.And definitely my life has been part of that.I&#39;m going to start with some simple kind ofnotions of how we organize things.
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:基本上，我们所做的就是让世界变得浑然一体我们造实际存在的东西，房子，这逐渐成为一个自然增加过程，房子繁衍出城市那些实存就是它们自己的形成过程，以及时间的反映我现在的目标就是把人们看世界的方式和有生殖力的土地同步起来因为，我一直以来作为建筑师，最大的兴趣就在于事物成型的方式，建筑师就是干这个的，不是吗？这不是基于先验概念我对向自己妥协，对自己说“这样才对嘛”全无兴趣事实上，有人说过，艾文，可能是你在介绍中提到——建筑师也不过如此——有人说这是商人的出路，这是一个合作的世界的出路，当他们想给所有行业都套上这条规矩？呃，天哪。对我完全无效。我才不理会这些屁话。
en:But basically, what we do is, we try to give coherence to the world.We make physical things, buildingsthat become a part in an accretional process; they make cities.And those things are the reflection of the processes,and the time that they are made.And what I&#39;m doing is attempting to synthesize the way one sees the worldand the territories which are useful as generative material.Because, really, all I&#39;m interested in, always, as an architect,is the way things are produced because that&#39;s what I do. Right?And it&#39;s not based on an a priori notion.I have no interest at all in conceiving something in my brainand saying, &quot;This is what it looks like.&quot; In fact, somebody mentioned —Ewan, maybe it was you in your introduction —about this is what architects —did somebody say it&#39;s what business people come to,it&#39;s what the corporate world comes towhen they want to make it look like something at the end of the line? Huh. Wow.It doesn&#39;t work that way for me at all.I have no interest in that whatsoever.
时间： 3:28
zh-cn:建筑是事物的开始，因为它——如果你没有从头开始参与，如果没有全身投入，这个繁衍过程的开始就变成了蛋糕装饰。而且我——我和蛋糕装饰和糕点师傅还有任何与蛋糕装饰有关的人，从没任何过节——我对这种装点行为没有兴趣。所以说，事物成型的过程，让它成型，赋予它——将它们实体化，要从一我们对待“组织”的观点开始三十年来，我一直对事物的复杂性深有兴趣：各方力量聚到一起，相互作用，感受、理解最终的作用结果，这种力量的较量正代表了建筑本身。每一个设计之间都有一种连续性，这种连续性很私人化，又很真实，这对我来说很重要。
en:Architecture is the beginning of something, because it&#39;s —if you&#39;re not involved in first principles,if you&#39;re not involved in the absolute,the beginning of that generative process, it&#39;s cake decoration.And I&#39;ve nothing wrong with cake decoration and cake decorators,if anybody&#39;s involved in cake decorations —it&#39;s not what I&#39;m interested in doing. (Laughter)And so, in the formation of things, in giving it form,in concretizing these things,it starts with some notion of how one organizes.And I&#39;ve had for 30 years an interest in a series of complexitieswhere a series of forces are brought to bear,and to understand the nature of the final result of that,representing the building itself.There&#39;s been a continual relationship between inventions,which are private, and reality, which has been important to me.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:十年前哥本哈根某展览中的有个项目大概是模拟海马区——大脑里储存短期记忆的部分——记录下它的工作流程。这个项目极富想象力地用一系列图画直观地表现海马区的变化。这是这样一个概念：走一公里路，体察走过的每一小段路程的特定目标与期望，然后用图反映出来。这整个概念就是我组织一个事情，不根据一般的连贯逻辑，而是不按常理出牌，将这个事情建立在随意性的基础上。这种随意性一直深深地吸引着我，因为它创造建筑，并且与城市发展紧密相连，代表了城市自然形成的过程，并且指出组织形式具有多样性再从这种组织的多样性带来系统多样性
en:A project which is part of an exhibition in Copenhagen 10 years ago,which was the modeling of a hippocampus —the territory of the brain that records short-term memory —and the documentation of that, the imaginative and documentation of thatthrough a series of drawings which literally attempt to organize that experience.And it had to do with the notion of walking a kilometer,observing every kilometer a particular object of desire,and then placing that within this.And the notion was that I could make an organizationnot built on normal coherencies, but built on non-sequiturs, built on randomness.And I&#39;d been extremely interested in this notion of randomnessas it produces architectural workand as it definitely connects to the notion of the city,an accretional notion of the city,and that led to various ideas of organization.And then this led to broader ideas of buildingsthat come together through the multiplicity of systems.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:各种系统不可能独立行事，只有系统间的动态关系才能碰撞出改变与发明的力量，创造出建筑——没有其他方法我们可以辨别不同系统，根据特征给它们分组今天，有电脑帮忙，加上快速打样等等，我们具备了完整的理解并回应这些系统的机制，让它们适应我们对功能的需求因为满足不同功能是我们的最终目标，我们设计的所有空间都是为了适应人类活动我感兴趣的不是空间的外在风格，而是它如何配合其中发生的各种人类活动顺利进行这与城市规划与建造直接相关。
en:And it&#39;s not any single system that makes the work.It&#39;s the relationship — it&#39;s the dynamics between the systems —which have the power to transform and inventand produce an architecture that is — that would otherwise not exist.And those systems could be identified,and they could be grouped together.And of course, today, with the technology of the computerand with the rapid prototyping, etc., we have the mechanismsto understand and to respond to these systems,and to allow them to adjust to the various accommodations of functionalitiesbecause that&#39;s all we do.We&#39;re producing spaces that accommodate human activity.And what I&#39;m interested in is not the styling of that,but the relationship of that as it enhances that activity.And that directly connects to ideas of city-making.
时间： 6:06
zh-cn:这是我们刚在马来西亚平安岛刚完成了一个项目。那是一个非常庞大的城市设计项目，并且正是这个过程的实践：各方力量交集最终完成了它。而这个项目——不得不提，竞争相当激烈——三年前我们受邀参加在纽约的哈德逊河上，也是用了这个过程。你会发现，运用这种方法，把多种不同的力量聚集在一起并运用于城市建造中，可以将庞大的项目缩小，化难为简，特别是我们现在设计的城市规模越来越大。因为当今社会的一大问题就是经济总量的不断增大推进了发展总量的上升，又是随着发展的深入，我们越来越需要更多复杂、详细的准备调研来解决这些问题奥林匹克村就是这么个例子
en:This is a project that we just finished in Penangfor a very, very large city project that came directly out of this process,which is the result of the multiplicity of forces that produce it.And the project — again, enormous, enormous competition —on the Hudson River and in New Yorkthat we were asked to do three years ago, which uses these processes.And what you&#39;re looking at are possibilities that have to dowith the generation of the city as one applies a methodologythat uses notions of these multiple forces,that deals with the enormity of the problem, the complexity of the problem,when we&#39;re designing cities at larger and larger aggregates.Because one of the issues today isthat the economic aggregate is driving the development aggregate,and as the aggregates get larger we requiremore and more complex investigation processes to solve these problems.And that led us directly to the Olympic Village.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:星期一的时候我在纽约把它展示给奥委会。我们拿下了奥运村项目——那是，九个月之前的事？这又是一个直接反映用这个过程解决极其复杂，大规模的项目同时，也要广泛采取各种策略在这个项目里，我们只用了60英亩中的15英亩地，剩下的45英亩是一个公园，奥运村的可以永久保留的财富同时，它还将成为真个行政区里的第二大公园，等等。它的位置在曼哈顿中心的Hunters Point。这将城市设计、规划的概念再次外扩，使城市中的建筑以及组成大蓝图的各个因素受到直接影响建筑物自己开始为我们指路对我来说建筑学就是调查研究各种力量它们可能来自任意领域下面我就可以就几个具体事例展开讨论我选了三、四个地方我对它们的兴趣在于其中的建筑都与它们所在的地理区域紧密相连其实建筑与各个知识领域都是有所重叠的。这就像是人体没有那个地方能脱离结缔组织
en:I was in New York on Monday presenting it to the IOC.We won the competition — what was it, nine months ago?Again, a direct reflection from using these processesto develop extremely complicated, very large-scale organisms.And then, also, was working with broad strategies.In this case, we only used 15 of the 60 acres of land,and the 45 acres was a park and would become the legacy of the Olympic Village.And it would become the second largest park in the boroughs, etc.Its position, of course, in the middle of Manhattan — it&#39;s on Hunter&#39;s Point.And then the broader ideas of city-makingstart having direct influences on architecture,on the elements that make up the broader scheme,the buildings themselves, and start guiding us.Architecture for me has been an investigation of a multiplicity of forcesthat could come from literally any place.And so I can start this discussion in any number of places,and I&#39;ve chosen three or four to talk about.And it has also to do with an interest inthe vast kind of territory that architecture touches.It literally is connected to anything in terms of knowledge base.There&#39;s just no place that it doesn&#39;t somehowhave a connective tissue to.
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:这是吉姆·戴恩的作品，缺失的存在。画里有衣服，看得到皮肤，但没有人物。其中要表现的概念是一件作品的表面这个概念被我们用在其中一个项目中，可以揭开那层表面这个抽象的平面图形可以折叠起来，变成非常复杂的空间这里想要表达的想法就是空间的关系，其实它们是平面折叠的成品，图画之中每部分之间的逻辑关系和抵触关系以及一种明确关系以及最终形成的空间的复杂性，都在同一框架内进行。这让我们不得不反思长久以来我们如何工作如何创造、生产，如果我们将立面平展，就被指引向时装设计领域，把他们重新折叠就再次回到空间组合。这是在韩国的一个项目的模型我们在做一个动态信封这材料也有相同的属性它半透明而且多孔它为建筑的表皮提供了新选择它可以马上换一个样子，变成另外一个设计
en:This is Jim Dine, and it&#39;s the absence of presence, etc.It&#39;s the clothing, the skin, without the presence of the character.It became kind of an idea for the notion of the surface of a work,and it was used in a project where we could unravel that surface,and it was a figurative idea that was going to be foldedand made into a very, kind of complex space.And the idea was the relationship of the space,which was made up of the fold of the image,and the dialectic or the conflict between the figuration,and the clarity of the imageand the complexity of the space, which were in dialog.And it made us rethink the whole notion of how we workand how we make things,and it led us to ideas that were closer to fashion design as we flattened out surfaces,and then brought them back together as they could make spatial combinations.And this was the first prototype in Korea,as we&#39;re dealing with a dynamic envelope,and then the same characteristic of the fabric.It has a material identity and it&#39;s translucent and it&#39;s porous,and it allows us for a very different notion of what a skin of a building is.And that turned right away into another project.
时间： 9:37
zh-cn:这是洛杉矶的加州交通局总部大楼现在可以看到建筑的皮肤和主体是可以区别的再强调一下，这是非常，非常简单的概念如果你看看周围的建筑你看到的事建筑的外观然后突然间我们的注意力转移了我们把建筑的外观和主体分开了看那可以把我们带向更广阔的发挥空间我接下来就要说这个你现在看到的是表皮如何搭在建筑主体上，并且将自己和主体区分开来。再一次，建筑物本身——它就在洛杉矶中心，市政厅对面它可以移动，可以弯曲它是一个标识系统的一部分也成了洛杉矶的财产——二维，三维空间中的财产，等等。它让我们进入作品中它是透明，完全敞开的，并且容你感受理解那是任何一幢建筑最有趣的地方是实际建造过程让它具备了这个性质
en:This is the Caltrans building in Los Angeles.And now we&#39;re seeing as the skin and the body is differentiated.Again, it&#39;s a very, very simple notion.If you look at most buildings,what you look at is the building, the facade, and it is the building.And all of a sudden we&#39;re kind of moving away,and we&#39;re separating the skin from the body,and that&#39;s going to lead to broader performance criteria,which I&#39;m going to talk about in a minute.And you&#39;re looking at how it drapes overand differentiates from the body.And then, again, the building itself,middle of Los Angeles, right across from City Hall.And as it moves, it takes pieces of the earth with it. It bends up.It&#39;s part of a sign system,which was part of the kind of legacy of Los Angeles —the two-dimension, three-dimension signing, etc.And then it allows one to penetrate the work itself.It&#39;s transparent, and it allows you to understand, I think,what is always the most interesting thing in any building,which is the actual constructional processes that make it.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:这可能是一座建筑中——可能是最有张力的部分，它没被填满，因为在建筑的外观和用途分开的时候才是它最引人入胜的时候我们现在就在做这个然后，建筑外皮可以变成其他材料在这个案例中我们用灯光做建筑外皮我们与纽约艺术家Keith Sonnier合作制作这个非常庞大的灯光系统它和洛杉矶很配，很能反映城市，当代城市环境在东京涉谷，或者墨西哥城，或巴西圣保罗能见到的城市景观这样的建筑可以长时间、持续地让城市处于活跃状态这也是这个项目非常适合洛杉矶的原因
en:And it&#39;s probably the most intense kind of territoryof the work, which is not occupied,because architecture is always the most interesting in some mechanismwhen it&#39;s separated from function,and this is an area that allows for that.And then the skin starts transforming into other materials.We&#39;re using light as a building material in this case.We&#39;re working with Keith Sonnier in New York,and we&#39;re making this large outside room,which is possible in Los Angeles, and which is very much reflectiveof the urban, the contemporary urban environmentsthat you would find in Shibuya or you&#39;d find in Mexico Cityor Sao Paulo, etc.,that have to do with activating the city over a longer span of time.And that was very much part of the notionof the urban objective of this project in Los Angeles.
时间：11:17
zh-cn:而且，它推崇透明化，用灯光作为媒介是再合适不过这时候光就成了建筑材料。这里可将我们的视野大大拓宽了——我们的工作余地也大大增加再来，我们现在看到的是一幅早期的草图现在看来，我觉得建筑外皮可以成为地面和建筑物的过渡段这座建筑在旧金山，还在建现在它的问题还挺大还要与之后整个系统运行起来的表现有关这将是美国第一座——我不能说完全去掉了空调。它是个过渡杂交品种。我想要纯种的，但没法实现其实不用那么坚持，因为杂交品种说不定更有意思
en:And, again, all of it promoting transparency.And an image which may be closest talks about the use of light as a medium,that light becomes literally a building material.Well, that immediately turned into something much broader, and as a scope.And again, we&#39;re looking at an early sketchwhere I&#39;m understanding nowthat the skin can be a transition between the ground and the tower.This is a building in San Francisco which is under construction.And now it turned into something much, much broader as a problem,and it has to do with performance.This will be the first building in the United States that took —well, I can&#39;t say it took the air conditioning out. It&#39;s a hybrid.I wanted a pure thing, and I can&#39;t get it.It&#39;s a wrong attitude, actually, because the hybrid is probably more interesting.
时间：12:03
zh-cn:建筑的塔楼部分没有空调但在底座部分还保留了空调现在的建筑表皮在液压下可以移动它把空气压进来——如果没有风的话会采用机器鼓风它可以根据锋利随即调整。有了它，我们就把空调部分去掉了。非常了不起，每年能给三角洲节约50万美元，其中十块——每块大概有800到1000平方英尺（288到360平米）——其中十块就足够给索萨力托——刚提到的三角洲提供能量供给。以上我们看到的就是当项目规模越来越大就会牵涉到更多、各种各样的问题因为规模越大代表它们的发展空间越大我们还可以再看看另一个项目。我们可以从生物学角度探讨一下建筑和土地的关系
en:But we took the air conditioning out of the tower.There&#39;s some air conditioning left in the base,but the skin now moves on hydraulics.It forces air through a Venturi force if there&#39;s no wind.It adjusts continually. And we removed the air conditioning.Huge, huge thing. Half a million dollars a year delta.10 of these — it&#39;s just under a million square feet —800 and some thousand square feet —10 of these would power Sausalito — the delta on this.And so now what we&#39;re looking at, as the projects get larger in scale,as they interface with broader problems,that they expand the capabilitiesin terms of their performance.Well, I could also start here.We could talk about the relationshipat a more biological sense of the relationship of building and ground.
时间：12:49
zh-cn:我们的研究——我这代人，60年代末开始上小学的这代——对建筑的关注不再局限于建筑的内部结构而是和它所在的地域建立联系我们深受电影、艺术的影响这是著名的迈克尔·海泽的作品当我看到这件作品，第一次是照片，后来又去现场看过它完全颠覆了我之前的观点我了解到建筑可以增强地球表面的视觉冲击力它完全颠覆了以前只把地面当做地基的普遍看法可能当时他从这儿收到了启发——这是秘鲁境内的纳斯卡高原已经有七百年历史了——最最宏伟绮丽，长达四公里的土地雕塑不可思议的自然造化它让我们不得不反思我们画图，工作的整个过程
en:Well, our research — my generation for sure,people who were going to school in the late &#39;60s —made very much a shift out of the internal focus of architecture,looking at architecture within its own territory,and we were much more affected by film,by what was going on in the art world, etc.This is, of course, Michael Heizer.And when I saw this, first an image and then visited,it completely changed the way I thought after that point.And I understood that building really could bethe augmentation of the Earth&#39;s surface,and it completely shifted the notion of building ground in the most basic sense.And then — well, he was probably looking at this — this is Nazca;this is 700 years ago — the most amazing four-kilometer land sculptures.They&#39;re just totally incredible.And that led us to then completely rethinking how we draw, how we work.
时间：13:41
zh-cn:这是加州波莫纳一所高中的最初草图不用管每部分都是什么，它就是个模型，概念化的想法想要通过重塑当地的地表，让我们可以利用我们大概占用了20万平方英尺（7.2万平方米）的地方好让高中能与土地结合在一起这个模型已经有点作品的样子了然后，是解决一些技术问题最后，学校建成当然，我们的兴趣——我们很喜欢参与教育事业的工作我对建那种要满足ABC条件的功能性建筑完全不感冒我很好奇包含在建筑中的观点会如何影响在这里学习的年轻人这需要有探求精神因为这整个系统不是以雕塑形式做成的
en:This is the first sketch of a high school in Pomona —well, whatever it is, a model, a conceptual, kind of idea.And it&#39;s the reshaping of the Earth to make it occupiable.So it puts 200,000 square feet of stuff that make a high school workin the surface of that Earth.There it is modeled as it was developing into a piece of work.And there it is, again, as it&#39;s starting to get resolved tectonically,and then there&#39;s the school.And, of course,we&#39;re interested in participating with education.I have absolutely no interest in producing a buildingthat just accommodates X, Y and Z function.What I&#39;m interested in are how these ideasparticipate in the educational process of young people.It demands some sort of notion of inquirybecause it&#39;s a system that&#39;s developed not sculpturally.
时间：14:25
zh-cn:它和我演讲最初的讨论有关它包含了一个宽泛，又连贯的逻辑这个逻辑在整座建筑中得到线这其中有一种隐秘的——至少我们尝试以一种隐蔽的方式表达土地与建筑的连接因为我一直希望赋予我们解决问题的过程一些教学意义看到建筑的时候人们可以得到一些启发这个项目刚在洛杉矶完成也用到了同样的理念，将地形作为基础我们正在做NOAA总部——美国国家海洋和大气局——在马里兰州华盛顿城外他们看到的世界是这样的——他们有22个卫星以100英里的时速（？？）飞速运行，红色部分是建筑物所在地
en:It&#39;s an idea that started from my first discussion.It has to do with a broad, consistent logic,and that logic could be understood as one occupies the building.And there&#39;s an overt — at least,there&#39;s an attempt to make a very overt notion of a buildingthat connects to the land in a very different waybecause I was interested in a very didactic approach to the problem,as one would understand that.And the second project that was just finished in Los Angelesthat uses some of the same ideas. It uses landscape as a major idea.Then, again, we&#39;re doing the headquarters for NOAA —National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Agency —outside of Washington in Maryland.And this is how they see the world.They have 22 satellites zipping around at plus or minus 100 miles,and the site&#39;s in red.
时间：15:09
zh-cn:我们真正想做的——我们是指建筑师如果这还算个职业的话——这是劳吉尔小屋它看起来非常原始，而且已经在那儿待了很久很久我们想要做的是建一个类似的东西因为他们将自己视为世界保护人，我们希望当他们从卫星图里看自己的根据地，八英亩大的地块时什么也找不着。我们希望那里始终保持绿色现在图中看到的建筑物上铺了三块棒球场地而且它们将一直待在那儿一块是南北向的卫星接收器像两只耳朵，对不？棒球场下方是操作室和任务室和任务控制室，其他所有空间都在地下你现在看到的是一艘卫星锅搭载航母它表现如何就要看这些卫星都能接收到什么样的图了建筑物的下半部分被一系列场地分开这里大概有五英亩连续的一层当做管理人员办公室这又一次驱使我们关注大规模项目中地形与建筑的交界面起到结缔组织的作用
en:And what we really want to do — well, the architects,if there are architects out there, this is the Laugier Hut;this is the primitive hut that&#39;s been around for so long —and what we wanted to do is really build this,because they see themselves as the caretakers of the world,and we wanted them to look down at their satellite,how they see their own site, that eight-acre site,and we wanted nothing left. We wanted it to stay green.There&#39;s actually three baseball fields on it right now,and they&#39;re going to stay there.We put one piece directly north-south,and it holds the dishes at the ears, right?And then right below that the processing, and the mission lift,and the mission control room, and all the other spaces are underground.And what you look at is an aircraft carrierthat&#39;s performance-driven by the cone vision of these satellite dishes.And that the building itself is occupied in the lower portion,broken up by a series of courts,and it&#39;s five acres of uninterrupted, horizontal spacefor their administrative offices.And then that, in turn, propelled us to look atlarger-scale projects where this notion of landscape building interfacebecomes a connective tissue.
时间：16:12
zh-cn:四年前柏林新首都竞赛还有，这是我们刚完成的欧洲中央银行图纸——很可惜维也纳的库普·希米尔布劳建筑事务所拿下了这个项目我们的方案中整个建筑物被分为一系列的地形元素这些不同地形成为公园中连接各个部分的结缔组织它们与河平行，并且每栋建筑都是这些地形的衍生它们成为连接结构——具有社会，文化，地域，娱乐功能的城市结构整座建筑不再是孤立的个体而是与周围环境紧密相连与城市的每一分每一秒联系在一起
en:The new capital competition for Berlin, four years ago.And again we just finished the ECB —actually Coop Himmelblau in Vienna just won this project,where the building was separated into a series of landscape elementsthat became part of a connective tissue of a park,which is parallel to the river, and develops ideas of the buildings themselvesand becomes part of the connective fabric —the social, cultural and the landscape, recreational fabric of the city.And the building is no longer seen as an autonomous thing,but something that&#39;s only inextricably connectedto this city and this place at this time.
时间：16:52
zh-cn:还有一个在奥地利实现的项目，胡珀银行其中也用到了这个“连接”的基本概念以及传统建筑，生态学或者说是将土地变成整个计划的构件成为整个复杂设计中的一部分的这样的理念，让地形作为城市的一部分在作品中呈现出来，得到放大这种处理地形的方法其实很简单，就是将原有地形上升，进行填充其他的部分则比较紧凑说到紧凑这种紧凑带来各种空间交错冲突的效果与将一系列系统放在一起，一部分藏在地下，一部分在地上带来的错杂的效果直接关联当人走入建筑物，同时也离开了地表这也是整个构想的一部分然后建筑表皮用一系列地震般，地壳运动一样的活动赋予建筑动态感
en:And a project that was realized in Austria, the Hooper Bank,which again used this idea of connecting typology,the traditional buildings, and morphology,or the relationship of the development of land as an idea,into a complex, which is a piece of a city where we can see part of itis literally just this augmenting,this movement of the land that&#39;s a very simple idea ofjust lifting it up and occupying it,and other parts are much more energetic and intense.And talk about that intensityin terms of the collisions of the kind of events they makethat have to do with putting a series of systems together,and then where part of it is in the ground, part of it is oppositional lifts.One enters the building as it lifts off the ground,and it becomes part of the idea.And then the skin — the edges of this —all promote the dynamic, the movement of the buildingas a series of seismic shifts, geologic shifts. Right?
时间：17:46
zh-cn:它指向活动场地，并且可以透过它看到建筑内部，刚才我们提到过我们提倡工作区域的透明化这是我们一直以来的理念然后，这是比较传统的场景这是多伦多的一间研究生宿舍它的设计理念也是重在将建筑化为城市的结缔组织设计重点是楼的入口，它将场地分成不同区域这栋楼既占据了公共区域，又包含了私人空间这就是设计重点——我去现场看过很多次，几乎所有人都说从两英里外就能看到它，延伸到街道的正中央这里面的理念就是参与到公共空间去让建筑成为城市的公共连接
en:And it makes for event space and then it breaks in placesthat allow you to peer into the interior, and those interiors, again,are promoting transparency for the workplace,which has been a continual interest of ours.And then, again, in a more, kind of traditional setting,this is a graduate student housing in Toronto,and it&#39;s very much about the relationship of a buildingas it makes a connective tissue to the city.The main idea was the gateway, where it breaks the site,and the building occupies both the public space and the private space.And it&#39;s that territory of — it&#39;s this thing.I visited the site many times, and everybody, kind of —you can see this from two kilometers away; it&#39;s an exact center of the street,and the whole notion is to engage the public,to engage buildings as part of the public tissue of the city.
时间：18:37
zh-cn:最后，我们最有趣的项目之一——这是一个法院我想说的是——这可是最高法院——我一直在和迈克尔·霍根沟通，他是俄勒冈州最高法院审判长你必须在自己的观点与合作人的观点，他对法院的理解之间进行协商和抉择不然工作就无法进行因为我正在给他展示柯布西耶的萨伏伊别墅1928年建成，被视为现代建筑的开端然后我们一起看了这幅照片这是整个项目的出发点。因为我——我对这里发生的各种现象很感兴趣我们现在就在讨论构建现实
en:And finally, one of the most interesting projects — it&#39;s a courthouse.And what I want to talk about — this is the Supreme Court, of course —and, well, I&#39;m dealing with Michael Hogan, the Chief Justice of Oregon.You could not proceed without making this negotiationbetween one&#39;s own values and the relationshipof the character you&#39;re working with and how he understands the court,because I&#39;m showing him, of course, Corbusier at Savoy,which is 1928, which is the beginning of modern architecture.Well, then we get to this image.And this is where the project started. Because I&#39;m going,I&#39;m interested in the phenomenon that&#39;s taking place in here.And really what we&#39;re talking about is constructing reality.
时间：19:22
zh-cn:我这个人对理解“构建现实”的原本自然状态极其有兴趣因为它们中不再存在自然。本来的自然状态消失了自然是19世纪的话题了，不是吗？自然只是文化意义上的宫殿，不是吗？我们构建现实，构建各种理念然后，毋庸置疑的，我们现在的州长我俩甚至还一起看了他的电影《科南》它指引我们看到世界的种种差异从法律、艺术、建筑各个层面它还让我们讨论了各种问题，比如我们都如何工作我们的工作动力，以及其他工作来源等等。最后，它将我们引向了我们的项目，法院它绝对是我们协商的结果是要建一座传统的法院还是既现代又保留传统元素的法院你会发现其中一级台阶和最高法院的台阶一样长这是一层大厅，文艺复兴时期的典型式样法院大体有这些材料构成：表皮是许多层状结构它们比较粗糙其中刻了《宪法》的片段这是我们做的细节处理的一部分全部做在柱子的底座上，让它在社区中格外引人注目。谢谢！
en:And I&#39;m a character that&#39;s extremely interestedin understanding the nature of that constructed realitybecause there&#39;s no such thing as nature any more. Nature is gone.Nature in the 19th-century sense, alright?Nature is only a cultural edifice today, right?We construct it and we construct those ideas.And then of course, this one, our governor at the moment.And we spent some time with Conan, believe it or not,and then that led us to, kind of, the very differences of our worldsfrom a legal and an artistic, architectural.And it forced us to talk about notions of how we work,and the dynamics of that, and what other sources of the work is.And it led us to the project, the courthouse,which is absolutely a part of a negotiationbetween tradition and pieces of the traditional courthouse.You&#39;ll find a stair that&#39;s the same length as the Supreme Court.Here&#39;s a piano nobile, which is a device used in the Renaissance.The courts were made of that. The skin is this series of layersthat reflect even rusticated stonework,but which were embedded with fragments of the Constitution,which were part of the little process,all set on a plinth that defined it from the community.Thank you so much.
时间：20:31
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
