时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今天早上我想谈一谈当我们把单纯的设计提升到设计思考时，将会发生怎样的改变。这里是一张老照片，是我被雇佣做的第一个项目，大约是25年前的事情。那是一个木工的机器，至少其中有一件是。我的任务就是使这个东西看上去更现代一些，和更好用一点。我当时想我做得是不错的。不幸的是，不久之后，那个公司破产了。
en:I&#39;d like to talk a little bit this morningabout what happens if we move from designto design thinking.Now this rather old photo up thereis actually the first project I was ever hired to do,something like 25 years ago.It&#39;s a woodworking machine, or at least a piece of one,and my task was tomake this thing a little bit more modern,a little bit easier to use.I thought, at the time, I did a pretty good job.Unfortunately, not very long afterwardsthe company went out of business.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:这是我做的第二个项目，是一台传真机。我给这些新技术加上了一个人吸引人的外壳。又一次，18个月后，这个产品就过时了。而现在，当然，这整套技术都过时了。我是一个学习速度相对比较慢的人。但最终我还是意识到了，也许那些使设计过时的理念没有那么重要 —让东西看上去更有吸引力，更方便使用，更适销——这些都不是那么重要。只关注设计，也就是一个单一的产品,我遵循的是渐进式的设计理念,所以没有产生太大的影响。
en:This is the second project that I did. It&#39;s a fax machine.I put an attractive shell around some new technology.Again, 18 months later,the product was obsolete.And now, of course, the whole technology is obsolete.Now, I&#39;m a fairly slow learner,but eventually it occurred to me thatmaybe what passed for designwasn&#39;t all that important —making things more attractive,making them a bit easier to use,making them more marketable.By focusing on a design,maybe just a single product,I was being incrementaland not having much of an impact.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:但是我认为这种小视角的设计是一种相对新近的现象，而且事实上这种现象真正的显现是二十世纪后期当设计变成了消费主义的一种工具。所以当今我们说到设计，尤其当我们在大众化的报纸中读到它，我们经常说到的产品是这样的。它们有趣吗？有趣。合意吗？也许。重要吗？不太重要。
en:But I think this small view of designis a relatively recent phenomenon,and in fact really emergedin the latter half of the 20th centuryas design became a tool of consumerism.So when we talk about design today,and particularly when we read about it in the popular press,we&#39;re often talking about products like these.Amusing? Yes. Desirable? Maybe.Important? Not so very.
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:但是不是总是这样的。我想提议的是如果我们对设计采取一种不同的思维方式，对物品本身关注少一点对设计理念作为一种途径关注得多一点，那么我们事实上也许可以在结果上看到一个更大的影响。这位先生，伊桑巴德·金德姆·布鲁内尔，十九世纪在他的职业生涯里设计出很多伟大的东西，包括布里斯托尔克利夫顿吊桥还有罗瑟海斯的泰晤士河隧道。两个都是非常伟大的设计而且还确实相当的创新。他最伟大的创造正穿过牛津这里。叫做大西部铁路。
en:But this wasn&#39;t always the way.And I&#39;d like to suggest that if we takea different view of design,and focus less on the objectand more on design thinking as an approach,that we actually might see the result in a bigger impact.Now this gentleman, Isambard Kingdom Brunel,designed many great things in his career in the 19th century,including the Clifton suspension bridge in Bristoland the Thames tunnel at Rotherhithe.Both great designs and actually very innovative too.His greatest creationruns actually right through here in Oxford.It&#39;s called the Great Western Railway.
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:当我还是个孩子，我在这里附近长大。我最喜欢做的事情之一就是沿着铁路骑自行车等待着特快列车呼啸而过。你可以在约瑟·马洛德·威廉·透纳的画作中看见其被描绘“雨，蒸汽和速度”。布鲁内尔所说的关于他想为他的乘客所实现的是一种浮游穿越乡村的体验。
en:And as a kid I grew up very close to here,and one of my favorite things to dowas to cycle along by the side of the railwaywaiting for the great big express trains to roar past.You can see it represented here in J.M.W. Turner&#39;s painting,&quot;Rain, Steam and Speed&quot;.Now, what Brunel said that he wanted to achieve for his passengerswas the experience of floating across the countryside.
时间： 2:54
zh-cn:这还是过去的十九世纪要做到意味着做出当时还没有的最平的道路坡度，也就是说造出穿越河谷的长高架桥 —这其实就是横跨梅登黑德的泰晤士河的高架桥以及如同威尔特郡的长隧道但是他没有就此停下，他没有在在仅仅尝试设计出最好的铁路旅程上之后停滞。他设想着一种综合的交通系统这种系统使意味乘客有可能在伦敦乘上一列火车然后从纽约的一艘船上下岸。完成一次从伦敦至纽约的旅程。这就是他建造的S.S大西部铁路连接旅程的第二段。
en:Now, this was back in the 19th century.And to do that meant creating the flattest gradientsthat had ever yet been made,which meant building long viaducts across river valleys —this is actually the viaduct across the Thames at Maidenhead —and long tunnels such as the one at Box, in Wiltshire.But he didn&#39;t stop there. He didn&#39;t stopwith just trying to design the best railway journey.He imagined an integrated transportation systemin which it would be possible for a passenger to embarkon a train in Londonand disembark from a ship in New York.One journey from London to New York.This is the S.S. Great Western that he builtto take care of the second half of that journey.
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:这是布鲁内尔在设计作为职业出现之前100年所作的工作。但是我认为他运用了设计思维来解决问题和提出足以改变世界的创新。现在设计思维是由罗杰 马丁，多伦多大学商学院的教授提出的整合性思考。这是一种能够用挖掘对立的观点和反相的限制来创造出新的解决方案的能力。至于设计，这意味着平衡合意性，人的需求和技术的可行性，以及经济的可行性。像大西部铁路这样的创举，就是把这种平衡延展至绝对。
en:Now, Brunel was working 100 years beforethe emergence of the design profession,but I think he was using design thinkingto solve problems and to create world-changing innovations.Now, design thinking begins with what Roger Martin,the business school professor at the University of Toronto,calls integrative thinking.And that&#39;s the ability to exploit opposing ideasand opposing constraintsto create new solutions.In the case of design, that meansbalancing desirability, what humans need,with technical feasibility,and economic viability.With innovations like the Great Western,we can stretch that balance to the absolute limit.
时间： 4:26
zh-cn:所以从某种角度来说，我们从以前的那样到今天的这样。从那些曾经彻底改变世界的系统思考者，到一群身着高领毛衣，佩戴设计师眼镜的大师们只做这些小玩意儿。在我们的产业社会逐渐成熟的时候，设计也变成了一种职业，而且其聚焦更小直至其开始成为美学，形象和时尚的代名词。我不是要在这里反对什么。我本身自己也是一名全职的设计师。我身上还带着我的设计师眼镜呢。在这里。但是我的确认为也许设计的格局又开始变大了。这些都是因为设计师开始将设计思维应用到解决新的问题上这些问题包括全球变暖，教育，医疗保健，安全，清洁水资源等。
en:So somehow, we went from this to this.Systems thinkers who were reinventing the world,to a priesthood of folks in black turtlenecks and designer glassesworking on small things.As our industrial society matured,so design became a professionand it focused on an ever smaller canvasuntil it came to stand for aesthetics,image and fashion.Now I&#39;m not trying to throw stones here.I&#39;m a fully paid-up member of that priesthood,and somewhere in here I have my designer glasses.There we go.But I do think that perhaps designis getting big again.And that&#39;s happening throughthe application of design thinkingto new kinds of problems —to global warming, to education,healthcare, security, clean water, whatever.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:当我们看到这种设计思维重新浮出水面，我们看到其开始解决新类型的问题。有一些基本的观点很有用。我想在下面的几分钟内谈论一下其中的某些想法。第一个想法是设计是以人为本的。它也许综合了科技和经济，但它始于人们的需求，或可能的需求。什么令生活更为简单，更为愉快？什么使科技更有用和更方便使用？但是这远不止是好的人体工程学，将按钮放在正确的位置上。这通常和对文化和环境的理解有关，甚至发生在我们知道新的想法从哪里诞生之前。
en:And as we see this reemergence of design thinkingand we see it beginning to tackle new kinds of problems,there are some basic ideas that I think we can observe that are useful.And I&#39;d like to talk about some of thosejust for the next few minutes.The first of those is that design ishuman-centered.It may integrate technology and economics,but it starts with what humans need, or might need.What makes life easier, more enjoyable?What makes technology useful and usable?But that is more than simply good ergonomics,putting the buttons in the right place.It&#39;s often about understanding culture and contextbefore we even know where to start to have ideas.
时间： 6:05
zh-cn:所以当一个团队正致力于一个在印度的新的视力检查项目时，他们想要了解这些学校的孩子们的心愿和动机，了解为他们父母检查视力的时候他们会扮演怎样的角色。声音转换已经发展成一种高质量，超低成本的数字助听器，为发展中国家专门设计的。在现在的西方我们依靠受过高级训练的技师来操作这些助听器。在像印度的地方，那些技师完全不存在。所以，需要一个团队在印度当地和病人以及社区医疗工人一起工作去理解一个PDA以及一个PDA上的一个程序是如何用来代替那些技工所提供的分配和诊断类的服务。
en:So when a team was working on a new vision screening program in India,they wanted to understand what the aspirationsand motivations were of these school childrento understand how they might play a rolein screening their parents.Conversion Sound has developed a high quality,ultra-low-cost digital hearing aidfor the developing world.Now, in the West we rely on highly trained techniciansto fit these hearing aids.In places like India, those technicians simply don&#39;t exist.So it took a team working in Indiawith patients and community health workersto understand how a PDAand an application on a PDAmight replace those techniciansin a fitting and diagnostic service.
时间： 6:51
zh-cn:那个团队不是先从技术入手，而是从人和文化着手。所以如果我们的出发点是人类的需求，那么设计思维很快就变成在实践中学习。目的不在于能造出什么，而是为了思考而建造。如今模型加快了革新的进程。因为只有当我们将我们的想法放到整个世界来看我们才能真正地开始去理解它们的优点和弱点。我们愈快地这样做，我们的想法就会愈快地改进提高。
en:Instead of starting with technology,the team started with people and culture.So if human need is the place to start,then design thinking rapidly moves on tolearning by making.Instead of thinking about what to build,building in order to think.Now, prototypes speed up the process of innovation,because it is only when we put our ideas out into the worldthat we really start to understand their strengths and weaknesses.And the faster we do that,the faster our ideas evolve.
时间： 7:23
zh-cn:对于印度马杜赖，Aravind眼科机构我们的介绍还不够多。为了达到交叉补贴的效用，他们用那些来自于负担得起医疗费的人们的营业利润来服务那些支付不起医疗费用的病人。现在他们不仅非常地高效，而且非常地创新。当我几年前拜访他们的时候，真正使我受用和惊讶的是他们尽早把想法在模型中实践的意愿。
en:Now, much has been said and written aboutthe Aravind Eye Institute in Madurai, India.They do an incredible job of serving very poor patientsby taking the revenues from those who can afford to payto cross-subsidize those who cannot.Now, they are very efficient,but they are also very innovative.When I visited them a few years ago,what really impressed me was their willingnessto prototype their ideas very early.
时间： 7:51
zh-cn:这是一个制造设备，这是他们实现突破成本的最大成果之一。他们制造自己的人工晶状体，用这些来替换那些被白内障毁坏的天然晶体。我认为至少部分原因是他们愿意实践模型的这种心态使他们实现了这个突破。由于他们把成本从200美元一副降低到了仅仅4美元一副。其中的部分原因是他们没有建造一个新的高级工厂，而是利用了他们一个医院的地下室。再之，他们没有安装那些西方生产商制造的大规模机器，而是采用了低成本的CAD/CAM模型技术。他们现在依然成为发展中国家最大的透镜生产商，并且最近也搬到了一个自己的工厂。
en:This is the manufacturing facilityfor one of their biggest cost breakthroughs.They make their own intraocular lenses.These are the lenses that replace thosethat are damaged by cataracts.And I think it&#39;s partly their prototyping mentalitythat really allowed them to achieve the breakthrough.Because they brought the cost downfrom $200 a pair,down to just $4 a pair.Partly they did this by instead of buildinga fancy new factory,they used the basement of one of their hospitals.And instead of installing the large-scale machinesused by western producers,they used low-cost CAD/CAM prototyping technology.They are now the biggest manufacturer of these lenses in the developing worldand have recently moved into a custom factory.
时间： 8:41
zh-cn:所以如果人类的需求是我们的着手点，然后把构建原型作为一个进步的载体，那么关于终点，我们也有一些问题需要回答不再是把消费主义当成是首要的目标设计思维开始于探索合作和参与的空间从消费者与生产者之间的一种被动关系转为人人皆可参与的积极过程完成一个对他们而言有意义，有效也有益的体验。
en:So if human need is the place to start,and prototyping, a vehicle for progress,then there are also some questions to ask about the destination.Instead of seeing its primary objective as consumption,design thinking is beginning to explore the potential of participation —the shift from a passive relationshipbetween consumer and producerto the active engagement of everyonein experiences that are meaningful,productive and profitable.
时间： 9:10
zh-cn:所以我想引用Rory Sutherland说过的一个概念，就是也许无形的东西比有形的物质更有价值，再延伸一下就是说，我认为可参与系统的设计是一个对于超越金钱的多种价值观的设计和衡量，并且这个会成为不仅仅是设计的核心，也是在我们发展进程中经济的核心。
en:So I&#39;d like to take the idea that Rory Sutherland talked about,this notion that intangible things are worth perhaps more than physical things,and take that a little bit further and say thatI think the design of participatory systems,in which many more forms of valuebeyond simply cashare both created and measured,is going to be the major theme, not only for design,but also for our economy as we go forward.
时间： 9:36
zh-cn:当William Beveridge在1942年写下他的第一个著名的报告时，他创造了英国的福利体系，他希望每个公民都能够积极地参与到他们自己的福利体系中。在他写下第三个报告时，他承认他失败了因为实际上他创造的是一个福利消费者的社会。
en:So William Beveridge, when he wrote the first of his famous reports in 1942,created what became Britain&#39;s welfare statein which he hoped that every citizenwould be an active participantin their own social well-being.By the time he wrote his third report,he confessed that he had failedand instead had created a society of welfare consumers.
时间：10:02
zh-cn:其中的一些参与者Hillary Cottam，Charlie Ledbetter,和Hugo Manassei，采用了他的公共参与的构想，在他们的Beveridge 4.0宣言中他们提出了一个构架来改造社会福利系统。在他们的Southwark Circle的项目中，他们与伦敦南部的Southwark的居民合作，加上一个小组的设计师，来设计一种新的帮助老人完成家务工作的会员组织。这个设计经过多重改进，包括与150个老人和他们的家庭进行合作。他们今年早些时候已经推出了这个项目。
en:Hilary Cottam, Charlie Leadbeater,and Hugo Manassei of Participlehave taken this idea of participation,and in their manifesto entitled Beveridge 4.0,they are suggesting a frameworkfor reinventing the welfare state.So in one of their projects called Southwark Circle,they worked with residents in Southwark, South Londonand a small team of designersto develop a new membership organizationto help the elderly with household tasks.Designs were refined and developedwith 150 older people and their familiesbefore the service was launched earlier this year.
时间：10:41
zh-cn:我们可以从这个参与的概念中引申到一个逻辑的结论，就是说设计会达到它的最大影响，只有当它们从设计师的大脑中变成每个人手上的东西时。在美国医疗系统里的护士和患者Kaiser Permanente研究了如何改进患者的体验过程的课题。尤其是他们如何交流信息，和轮班。通过一个观察研究的软件，头脑风暴新的解决方案和快速的模型化，他们发展出一个全新换班制度。
en:We can take this idea of participationperhaps to its logical conclusionand say that design may have its greatest impactwhen it&#39;s taken out of the hands of designersand put into the hands of everyone.Nurses and practitioners at U.S. healthcare systemKaiser Permanentestudy the topic of improving the patient experience,and particularly focused on the way that they exchange knowledgeand change shift.Through a program of observational research,brainstorming new solutions and rapid prototyping,they&#39;ve developed a completely new way to change shift.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:他们从撤消护士站开始，来讨论各种状况和患者的不同需求，最终发展了一个就安置在病房的患者面前的简单软件系统。实施之后，他们把离开患者的时间从平均40分钟降低到12分钟。他们提高了患者的信心和护士的满意度。如果把这个个例落实到所有的护士，以及医疗系统中的所有的40个医院里的每一个病房中，它会产生一个相当大的影响。
en:They went from retreating to the nurse&#39;s stationto discuss the various states and needs of patients,to developing a system that happened on the wardin front of patients, using a simple software tool.By doing this they brought the time that they were away from patientsdown from 40 minutes to 12 minutes, on average.They increased patient confidence and nurse happiness.When you multiply that by all the nursesin all the wards in 40 hospitals in the system,it resulted, actually, in a pretty big impact.
时间：11:50
zh-cn:而这还仅仅是在医疗系统中几千个机会中的一个。这些是关于设计思维的一些基本概念，和一些新类型的应用设计思维的概念的项目。现在我想再谈Brunel，并提出一个或许可以解释为什么这些事情发生在现在的原因，或许这也能解释为什么设计思维是一个有用的工具。那个原因就是“变化”。在变化的时代我们需要新的解决方案，新的想法。
en:And this is just one of thousandsof opportunities in healthcare alone.So these are just some of the kind of basic ideasaround design thinkingand some of the new kinds of projectsthat they&#39;re being applied to.But I&#39;d like to go back to Brunel here,and suggest a connection that might explain why this is happening now,and maybe why design thinking is a useful tool.And that connection is change.In times of change we neednew alternatives, new ideas.
时间：12:28
zh-cn:Brunel是在工业革命层面去工作，是当我们所有的生活和经济都发生革新的时候。现在Brunel时代的工业革命系统还在继续带来影响，但是确实也成为了当今问题的一部分。况且，我们处在无所不在的变化中央。这些改变迫使我们从根本层面去思考我们社会的问题－－－如何保持健康，如何管理我们自己，如何教育我们自身，如何保障我们的安全。所以在高度变化的时代我们需要新的选择，因为现存的解决方案已经过时了。
en:Now, Brunel worked at the height of the Industrial Revolution,when all of life and our economywas being reinvented.Now the industrial systems of Brunel&#39;s time have run their course,and indeed they are part of the problem today.But, again, we are in the midst of massive change.And that change is forcing us to questionquite fundamental aspects of our society —how we keep ourselves healthy, how we govern ourselves,how we educate ourselves, how we keep ourselves secure.And in these times of change, we need these new choicesbecause our existing solutions are simply becoming obsolete.
时间：13:04
zh-cn:但是为什么是设计思维呢？因为它提供给我们一个新的处理问题的方式。与其是循规蹈矩地使用常规的办法，也就是从现有的选择中选出最好的，设计思维鼓励我们去采用一个不寻常的办法，去探索新的可能性，新的解决方案，和前所未有的新想法。但是在我们开始开辟新道路之前，有一个非常重要的第一步。那就是，我们到底在试图回答的问题是什么？设计的要求是什么？Brunel可能提出这样的一个问题，“我怎样搭一辆从伦敦到纽约的火车？”但是如果换作今天，我们要问哪些新的问题？
en:So why design thinking?Because it gives us a new way of tackling problems.Instead of defaulting to our normal convergent approachwhere we make the best choice out of available alternatives,it encourages us to take a divergent approach,to explore new alternatives, new solutions,new ideas that have not existed before.But before we go through that process of divergence,there is actually quite an important first step.And that is, what is the question that we&#39;re trying to answer?What&#39;s the design brief?Now Brunel may have asked a question like this,&quot;How do I take a train from London to New York?&quot;But what are the kinds of questions that we might ask today?
时间：13:47
zh-cn:这些就是我们近些年要开始思考的。其中一个案例就是正在与我们合作的Acumen基金会，他们有一个Bill和Melinda盖茨基金会赞助的项目，我们如何才能提高世界上最贫穷人民的安全饮用水，同时还促使当地水供应商的创新？
en:So these are some that we&#39;ve been asked to think about recently.And one in particular, is one that we&#39;re working on with the Acumen Fund,in a project that&#39;s been funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.How might we improve access to safe drinking waterfor the world&#39;s poorest people,and at the same time stimulate innovationamongst local water providers?
时间：14:11
zh-cn:因此我们没有雇用一群美国设计师让他们提出一些可能适用可能不适用得想法，我们采用了一个更加开放，合作，和参与性的方法。我们把设计师和投资专家和11位印度的水源组织联合起来组成团队。通过小研讨会他们发展出一套创新的新产品，服务，和商业模型。
en:So instead of having a bunch of American designerscome up with new ideas that may or may not have been appropriate,we took a sort of more open, collaborative and participative approach.We teamed designers and investment experts up with11 water organizations across India.And through workshops they developedinnovative new products, services, and business models.
时间：14:31
zh-cn:我们举办了一个比赛，他们资助了其中的5个组织去延伸他们的想法。所以他们不断的开发他们的想法。随后IDEO和Acumen用几周的时间去完善他们，来帮助设计新的社会营销活动，社区推广策略，和开发商业模型，新的储藏用的水管和运输水的水车。其中有些想法已经投入市场了。非洲东部的NGO也在开始同样的步骤。
en:We hosted a competitionand then funded five of those organizationsto develop their ideas.So they developed and iterated these ideas.And then IDEO and Acumen spent several weeks working with themto help design new social marketing campaigns,community outreach strategies, business models,new water vessels for storing waterand carts for delivering water.Some of those ideas are just getting launched into the market.And the same process is just getting underwaywith NGOs in East Africa.
时间：15:02
zh-cn:对我而言，这个项目显示出我们可以从我事业初期的那些小东西有能力发展到多远的未来。藉由关注人类的需求，和使用模型，来快速地实施新想法，藉由把过程从设计师的手中转移到社区的主动参与中，我们可以攻克更大和更有趣的问题。就像Brunel一样，藉由聚焦在系统上，我们可以产生更大的影响。所以这是我们在着手做事情之一。
en:So for me, this project showskind of how far we can go fromsome of those sort of small thingsthat I was working onat the beginning of my career.That by focusing on the needs of humansand by using prototypesto move ideas along quickly,by getting the process out of the hands of designers,and by getting the active participation of the community,we can tackle bigger and more interesting questions.And just like Brunel, by focusing on systems,we can have a bigger impact.So that&#39;s one thing that we&#39;ve been working on.
时间：15:39
zh-cn:实际上我非常感兴趣的是，就是我想了解这个社区是怎么看待我们的工作的。我们认为设计思维可以用来解决哪些问题？如果你有任何想法的话，请直言，你可以把他们写在Twitter上。你可以用#CBDG这个hash tag。这个单子在前不久的时候看起来是这样的。当然你也可以搜索你感兴趣的问题，还是使用同一个hash 代码就可以。
en:I&#39;m actually really quite interested, and perhaps more interestedto know what this community thinks we could work on.What kinds of questions do we thinkdesign thinking could be used to tackle?And if you&#39;ve got any ideasthen feel free, you can post them to Twitter.There is a hash tag there that you can use, #CBDQ.And the list looked something like this a little while ago.And of course you can search to find the questions that you&#39;re interested inby using the same hash code.
时间：16:08
zh-cn:最后我坚信，设计思维真的有能力让世界变得不同，它可以帮助启发新想法，和革新，而不只是热门产品。为了实现这个愿景，我觉得我们应该放远视角看设计，更多像Brunel这样，不要只局限在职业范畴之内。第一步就是要从提出正确的问题开始。非常感谢。（鼓掌）
en:So I&#39;d like to believe that design thinkingactually can make a difference,that it can help create new ideasand new innovations,beyond the latest High Street products.To do that I think we have to take a more expansive view of design,more like Brunel, less a domain of a professional priesthood.And the first step is to start asking the right questions.Thank you very much.(Applause)
