时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今天，我想在这里谈论一下社会变革，这不是关于新的具体对策或干预方式，也不是关于处理儿童问题的新方法之类的，而是一种新的社会变革的商业运作模式，一种解决问题的新方法。
en:I&#39;m here today to talk about social change,not a new therapy or a new interventionor a new way of working with kidsor something like that,but a new business model for social change,a new way of tackling the problem.
时间： 0:26
zh-cn:在英国，63%经历过短期监禁的人会在出狱后一年内重犯。你们觉得，他们平均每人会有多少次前科？43次。然后再想想，他们平均坐做过多少次牢？7次。
en:In Britain, 63 percent of all menwho come out of short sentences from prisonre-offend again within a year.Now how many previous offensesdo you think they have on averagemanaged to commit?Forty-three.And how many previous timesdo you think they&#39;ve been in prison?Seven.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:因此，我们和司法部进行谈判，我们对他们说，如果重犯人数减少了，能给司法部带来多大经济价值？多少会有些，对不对？这其中有监狱的支出，有警方和法庭的开销，还有其他的针对他们善后开支。这里的经济价值有多少？
en:So we went to talk to the Ministry of Justice,and we said to the Ministry of Justice,what&#39;s it worth to youif fewer of these guys re-offend?It&#39;s got to be worth something, right?I mean, there&#39;s prison costs,there&#39;s police costs, there&#39;s court costs,all these things that you&#39;re spending money onto deal with these guys. What&#39;s it worth?
时间： 1:13
zh-cn:当然，我们也在乎社会价值。“社会金融”是我协助建立的一个组织，专门关注社会问题。但我们想把这个计划做成经济项目，因为，如果我们可以做到这一点，这些计划就会有难以抗拒的吸引力。如果我们能认同这种价值并商定一种衡量我们是否成功降低重犯率的方式，那么我们就可以实施一些我们认为有趣的想法。
en:Now, of course, we care about the social value.Social Finance, the organization I helped set up,cares about social stuff.But we wanted to make the economic case,because if we could make the economic case,then the value of doing this would be completely compelling.And if we can agree on both a valueand a way of measuring whether we&#39;ve beensuccessful at reducing that re-offending,then we can do somethingwe think rather interesting.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:这个想法叫做“社会效益债券”。简而言之，“社会效益债券”是指，如果我们使得政府相信我们可以制订一份合同，说明只有项目取得成效时政府才需要支付费用，那就意味着，政府可以尝试新的方法而不必应对破费却无果的尴尬境地。这对于许多政府而言是一个值得深思的问题。
en:The idea is called the social impact bond.Now, the social impact bond is simply saying,if we can get the government to agree,that we can create a contract wherethey only pay if it worked.So that means that they can try out new stuffwithout the embarrassmentof having to pay if it didn&#39;t work,which for still quite a lot of bits of government,that&#39;s a serious issue.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:现在，大家或许已经注意到这里有一个问题，那就是，检验有无取得意想中的成果需要漫长的过程。因此，我们需要筹集资金。我们利用这份合同从社会效益型投资者处筹集资金。社会效益型投资者，这是一个新颖有趣的概念，对不对？但事实上，如果有机会的话很多人乐意投资可以产生社会效益的项目。而这里就提供了这么一个机会。你是否也想帮助政府挖掘一个更好地商业运作模式？不仅仅是放任犯罪者出狱以后再次犯罪、再次入狱，而是要切实地帮助他们走上一条不同的道路以此降低犯罪率，减少受害者。
en:Now, many of you may have noticedthere&#39;s a problem at this point,and that is that it takes a long time to measurewhether those outcomes have happened.So we have to raise some money.We use the contract to raise moneyfrom socially motivated investors.Socially motivated investors:there&#39;s an interesting idea, right?But actually, there&#39;s a lot of people who,if they&#39;re given the chance,would love to invest in somethingthat does social good.And here&#39;s the opportunity.Do you want to also help government findwhether there&#39;s a better economic model,not just leaving these guys to come out of prisonand waiting till they re-offendand putting them back in again,but actually working with themto move to a different pathto end up with fewer crimesand fewer victims?
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:因此，我们要召集一些投资者，他们为一系列的服务提供资金，如果这些服务取得成功，达到了改良（社会）的目的，那政府就因为重犯率下降而节约了资金，而这些资金则可用于支付这些效益的成本。这样，投资者不仅可以收回本金，还可以取得收益。
en:So we find some investors,and they pay for a set of services,and if those services are successful,then they improve outcomes,and with those measured reductions in re-offending,government saves money,and with those savings,they can pay outcomes.And the investors do not just get their money back,but they make a return.
时间： 3:15
zh-cn:在2010年3月，我们签署了第一份“社会效益债券”（我们）与司法部合作，在彼得伯勒监狱开展了该项目。我们把3000名犯罪者分成3组，每组1000人。每组的成员自他们出狱时算起有两年的评估期。他们可以有一年的时间再次犯罪，有6个月的时间走完司法程序，然后我们会把他们与警方数据库中基本情况应尽可能相似的一组犯罪者作比较。我们得到报酬的条件是达到重犯率降低10%的预期值，所有被消灭罪行都将为我们带来收益。简而言之，犯罪率降低，项目有收益。如果三组犯罪者都减少了10%的重犯率，那投资者就可以得到7.5%的年投资回报率；如果项目效益比预期更好，那他们可以得到13%的年投资回报率。这是一件好事。
en:So in March 2010, we signedthe first social impact bondwith the Ministry of Justicearound Peterborough Prison.It was to work with 3,000 offenderssplit into three cohorts of 1,000 each.Now, each of those cohortswould get measured over the two yearsthat they were coming out of prison.They&#39;ve got to have a year to commit their crimes,six months to get through the court system,and then they would be compared to a grouptaken from the police national computer,as similar as possible,and we would get paidproviding we achieved a hurdle rateof 10-percent reduction,for every conviction event that didn&#39;t happen.So we get paid for crimes saved.Now if we achieved that 10-percent reductionacross all three cohorts,then the investors get a seven and a half percentannualized return on their investment,and if we do better than that,they can get up to 13 percentannualized return on their investment,which is okay.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:大家各取所需，对不对？司法部可以尝试一个新的项目，而且是在有效的情况下才付款。投资者则有两种好处：首先，他们可以投资社会变革。同时他们也能得到合理的收益。他们也明白，作为第一批参与这种项目的投资者，他们必须是社会效益的拥护者，而且关注社会项目。如果该计划在5～10年中都有良好的收益，那我们就可以扩大投资者的范围，因为有更多的人对这个产品抱有信心。这些服务的提供者有史以来第一次有机会投资公共服务并以一种积极的方式来见证他们所从事的事业。同时，他们可以在5～6年间学习并展示这项事业的价值，而不是在常规下短短的1～2年。社会也是赢家：犯罪率下降，受害者减少。而犯罪者也可以获益。从前，他们出狱时兜里只揣着46英镑，一半人不知道出狱后的第一个晚上该在哪里度过。现在，有人会在犯罪者服刑期间就和他们接触，了解他们的背景；出狱时，有人会在监狱门口接应他们，带他们到住宿的地方，帮助他们办理社会保险和就业，联系戒毒中心、心理治疗以及其他他们需要的东西。
en:So everyone wins here, right?The Ministry of Justice can try out a new programand they only pay if it works.Investors get two opportunities:for the first time, they can invest in social change.Also, they make a reasonable return,and they also know thatfirst investors in these kinds of things,they&#39;re going to have to believers.They&#39;re going to have to care in the social program,but if this builds a track recordover five or 10 years,then you can widen that investor communityas more people have confidence in the product.The service providers, well, for the first time,they&#39;ve got an opportunity to provide servicesand grow the evidence for what they&#39;re doingin a really constructive way and learnand demonstrate the value of what they&#39;re doingover five or six years, not just one or twoas often happens at the moment.Society wins: fewer crimes, fewer victims.Now, the offenders, they also benefit.Instead of just coming out of the prisonwith 46 pounds in their pocket,half of them not knowing where they&#39;re spendingtheir first night out of jail,actually, someone meets them in prison,learns about their issues,meets them at the gate,takes them through to somewhere to stay,connects them to benefits,connects them to employment,drug rehabilitation, mental health,whatever&#39;s needed.
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:我们再来考虑另一个例子：帮助福利院中的儿童。社会效益债券取得了很好的成果，尤其是在那些花费高昂却没有成效的领域。就福利院中的儿童而言他们的表现十分糟糕。只有13%的福利院孩子可以在16岁的时候达到普遍的学业水平，（即完成五门普通中等教育证书考试）而在全英国的同龄人中，这个比例是58%。让人忧心的是，监狱中27%的犯罪者曾经生活在福利院中。更有甚者，内政部的数据显示，70%的妓女曾经生活于福利院。（可见）国家并不是一位合适的家长。不过，现在有很好的项目服务于很可能要前往福利院的青少年，而福利院中30%的孩子是青少年。
en:So let&#39;s think of another example:working with children in care.Social impact bonds work greatfor any area where there is at the momentvery expensive provision that producespoor outcomes for people.So children in the state caretend to do very badly.Only 13 percent achieve a reasonable levelof five GCSEs at 16,against 58 percent of the wider population.More troublingly, 27 percent of offenders in prisonhave spent some time in care.And even more worryingly,and this is a Home Office statistic,70 percent of prostituteshave spent some time in care.The state is not a great parent.But there are great programsfor adolescents who are on the edge of care,and 30 percent of kids going into careare adolescents.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:因此我们与艾萨克斯县议会合作开展了一个项目，来找出全面的家庭治疗方法以服务于那些可能有孩子要前往福利院的家庭。而艾克萨斯县政府只用为那些削减了开支的项目埋单。投资者共投入了310万英镑。这个项目于上个月开始运营。还有其他一些项目，关注伦敦的流浪人群，关注全国各地年轻人的就业和教育现在，英国有13份社会效益债券。而社会对其的热情持续高涨，延展到全世界。卡梅伦（英国首相）已经为支持此想法向社会效益基金会支付了两千万英镑。奥巴马提议，从美国的预算中抽出3亿美元来推进这些想法和组织。还有很多国家表现出极大地兴趣。
en:So we set up a program with Essex County Councilto test out intensive family therapeutic supportfor those families with adolescentson the edge of the care system.Essex only pays in the eventthat it&#39;s saving them care costs.Investors have put in 3.1 million pounds.That program started last month.Others, around homelessness in London,around youth and employment and educationelsewhere in the country.There are now 13 social impact bonds in Britain,and amazing levels of interest in this ideaall over the world.So David Cameron&#39;s put 20 million poundsinto a social outcomes fund to support this idea.Obama has suggested 300 million dollarsin the U.S. budget for these kinds of ideasand structures to move it forward,and a lot of other countriesare demonstrating considerable interest.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:是什么让他们如此兴奋？这对于人们而言有什么特别的？首先，我们已经谈到过了，是创新。它给尝试新想法提供了机会，且这种方式不会给人们制造麻烦。
en:So what&#39;s caused this excitement?Why is this so different for people?Well, the first piece, which we&#39;ve talked about,is innovation.It enables testing of new ideasin a way that&#39;s less difficult for everybody.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:第二点是严密。为了取得效益，人们必须反复试验并把数据信息应用于正在解决的问题上。以彼得伯勒（监狱）为例，我们把个案管理添加到所有与我们合作的组织之中；因此他们能够知晓我们是如何对待不同类型的犯罪者，同时，我们会主动从司法部索要信息，因此他们（监狱）和我们都可以了解到犯罪者的近况，有没有被再次逮捕。我们会研究并根据实际情况调整项目。
en:The second piece it brings is rigor.By working to outcomes, people really have to testand bring data into the situationthat one&#39;s dealing with.So taking Peterborough as an example,we add case managementacross all of the different organizationsthat we&#39;re working withso they knowwhat actually has been done with different prisoners,and at the same time they learnfrom the Ministry of Justice, and we learn,because we pushed for the data,what actually happens, whetherthey get re-arrested or not.And we learn and adapt the program accordingly.
时间： 8:06
zh-cn:这就带来了第三个，也是一个新的好处，灵活性。一般的合同都是要政府付钱的，也就是说，要花我们纳税人的钱，负责项目的人很清楚这一点。因此，关键是要控制花钱的方式。在座的每一位企业家都明白，这是商业计划的1.0版本而且通常是行不通的。当你尝试开展这样的计划时，就需要灵活性来调整这个计划。再回到彼得伯勒（监狱）的项目，我们在运营的同时也收集信息；过一段时间之后，我们就根据现实与设想的差别来调整计划并加入了一系列新的元素，使得这些服务既能满足长期效益也能契合短期需求：即更多的犯罪者可以参与到期限更长的项目中。
en:And this leads to the third element, which is new,and that&#39;s flexibility.Because normal contracting for things,when you&#39;re spending government money,you&#39;re spending our money, tax money,and the people who are in charge of that are very aware of itso the temptation is to controlexactly how you spend it.Now any entrepreneur in the room knowsthat version 1.0, the business plan,is not the one that generally works.So when you&#39;re trying to do something like this,you need the flexibility to adapt the program.And again, in Peterborough, we started offwith a program, but we also collected data,and over the period of time,we nuanced and changed that programto add a range of other elements,so that the service adaptsand we meet the needs of the long termas well as the short term:greater engagement from the prisoners,longer-term engagement as well.
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:最后一种好处是合作。这其实是老生常谈：国家变好，公众受惠，个人获益，社会多赢。这是类似项目的普遍规律。事实上，如果想推动社会变革，我们需要充分利用社会各界的专业知识才能使这成为可能。而这些项目创造了一种机制来融合各方的力量。
en:The last element is partnership.There is, at the moment, a stale debate going on very often:state&#39;s better, public sector&#39;s better,private sector&#39;s better, social sector&#39;s better,for a lot of these programs.Actually, for creating social change,we need to bring in the expertisefrom all of those partiesin order to make this work.And this creates a structurethrough which they can combine.
时间： 9:28
zh-cn:这一切都说明了什么？它们提供了一种方法，让人们有机会投资社会变革。我们遇到成千甚至上百万的人希望有机会投资社会变革。我们知道很多公共部门中的精英都很热衷于创造不同。利用这种商业模式我们可以把他们团结在一起。
en:So where does this leave us?This leaves us with a waythat people can invest in social change.We&#39;ve met thousands, possibly millions of people,who want the opportunity to invest in social change.We&#39;ve met champions all over the public sectorkeen to make these kinds of differences.With this kind of model,we can help bring them together.
时间： 9:49
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 9:51
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
