时间： 0:11
zh-cn:几年前，我偶然想到一个帮助人们理解和解决复杂问题的简单构思练习，像许多这样的构思性练习一样，一开始都有一点琐碎无聊，但是在仔细的研究后，结果发现揭示出了意想不到的事实有关我们合作和理解事物的方式。
en:Some years ago,I stumbled across a simple design exercisethat helps people understandand solve complex problems,and like many of these design exercises,it kind of seems trivial at first,but under deep inspection,it turns out that it revealsunexpected truthsabout the way that we collaborateand make sense of things.
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:这个练习有三个部分，以我们都知道的怎么做的一件事开始，那就是如何烤面包片。首先以一张白纸和一支马克笔开始，不需要任何语句，你开始画如何制作烤面包片。大部分人会画成这样。他们画一条面包，切成片，然后放入烤面包机。然后烘烤一会儿。然后，哗，面包弹了出来。两分钟后则是，香香的烤面包和幸福。
en:The exercise has three partsand begins with somethingthat we all know how to do,which is how to make toast.It begins with a clean sheet of paper,a felt marker,and without using any words,you begin to draw how to make toast.And most people draw something like this.They draw a loaf of bread, which is sliced, then put into a toaster.The toast is then deposited for some time.It pops up, and then voila!After two minutes, toast and happiness.
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:多年来，我已经收集了很多烤面包的画作，有些画的非常优秀，因为他们清楚的展示了制作烤面包片的过程。另外，有一些画成这样的，比较差劲，他们真的很糟糕，因为你不知道他们想表达什么。在仔细的研究后，一些画作在展示烤面包片的某些方面时隐藏了其他方面。有一些只是着重于烤面包，和面包在备考先后的转化过程。还有其它的是全关于面包机的，并且工程师们特别喜欢画面包机的工作原理。（笑声）然后还有一些关于刻画人的。他们将人们的经历可视化。还有是一些关于制作烤面包的供应链并且把这过程还原到商店里。从远距离传输开始，直到田地和小麦，甚至有些人从大爆炸开始画起。这些东西都太疯狂了。但是我认为很明显的是即使这些画作都非常的不同，但是它们都有共同点，不知道你们发现了没有。你们看见了么？它们之间有什么共同点呢？
en:Now, over the years, I&#39;ve collectedmany hundreds of drawings of these toasts,and some of them are very good,because they really illustratethe toast-making process quite clearly.And then there are some that are,well, not so good.They really suck, actually, becauseyou don&#39;t know what they&#39;re trying to say.Under close inspection,some reveal some aspects of toast-makingwhile hiding others.So there&#39;s somethat are all about the toast,and all about the transformation of toast.And there&#39;s othersthat are all about the toaster,and the engineers love to drawthe mechanics of this.(Laughter)And then there are othersthat are about people.It&#39;s about visualizingthe experience that people have.And then there are others that are aboutthe supply chain of making toastthat goes all the way back to the store.It goes through the supply chainnetworks of teleportationand all the way backto the field and wheat,and one all actually goesall the way back to the Big Bang.So it&#39;s crazy stuff.But I think it&#39;s obviousthat even though these drawingsare really wildly different,they share a common quality,and I&#39;m wondering if you can see it.Do you see it? What&#39;s common about these?
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:大部分的画作有节点和链接。节点代表可触及物比如人和烤面包机，链接则表示每个节点之间的联系。正是因为这些节点和链接的结合，才生产出一个完整的系统模型，这个则把我们个人思考事物如何运作的思维模式可视化。这就是这些东西的价值。这系统模型的有趣之处在于它们揭示了我们不同的观点。举个例子，美国人用烤面包机烤面包。这似乎显而易见，但是欧洲人用平底锅烤面包，当然这也是可以的，而且，很多学生还用火烤面包。我真的不是很理解。但是很多 MBA 的学生这样做。
en:Most drawings have nodes and links.So nodes represent the tangible objectslike the toaster and people,and links representthe connections between the nodes.And it&#39;s the combinationof links and nodesthat produces a full systems model,and it makes our privatemental models visibleabout how we think something works.So that&#39;s the value of these things.What&#39;s interesting aboutthese systems modelsis how they revealour various points of view.So for example, Americansmake toast with a toaster.That seems obvious.Whereas many Europeansmake toast with a frying pan, of course,and many students make toast with a fire.I don&#39;t really understand this.A lot of MBA students do this.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:你可以通过数节点的个数衡量难度，平均的图画步骤一般在四和八个节点之间，少于这个节点，画会看上去比较琐碎，但是易懂，要是多余 13 个则叫人张目结舌。因为太复杂了。所以呢 5 到 13 个节点恰到好处。如果你想用视觉进行沟通，那么在你的示意图里要有 5 到 13 个节点。虽然我们不一定善于绘画，但关键是我们的直觉知道如何将复杂的东西简化，再将它们重新组合起来。
en:So you can measure the complexityby counting the number of nodes,and the average illustrationhas between four and eight nodes.Less than that, the drawing seems trivial,but it&#39;s quick to understand,and more than 13, the drawingproduces a feeling of map shock.It&#39;s too complex.So the sweet spot is between 5 and 13.So if you want to communicatesomething visually,have between five and 13 nodesin your diagram.So though we may notbe skilled at drawing,the point is that we intuitively knowhow to break down complex thingsinto simple things and then bring them back together again.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:这样一来，我们就进入了这个练习的第二个部分，就是怎样做烤面包片但是得用便利贴或卡片表示出来。接着发生了什么呢？用卡片呢，大部分人倾向于画出清晰，有细节，和更加有逻辑的节点。你可以看到发生的每一步过程，当他们建立起他们的模型的时候，他们移动他们的节点，就像乐高积木一样重组它们。虽然现在这看上去无关紧要，但是实际上这非常重要。这快速的表达重述和思考与分析是我们真正唯一明晰原理的方式。这是设计过程的核心。系统理论学家的确告诉我们，改变陈述方式的简单性与我们改进模型的积极性相关联。所以呢，使用便利贴绘图不仅更加顺畅，而且比起在纸上绘图，它们还会使人们画出更多的节点。绘画内容也会更加丰富。
en:So this brings us to our second part of the exercise,which is how to make toast,but now with sticky notesor with cards.So what happens then?Well, with cards, most peopletend to draw clear, more detailed,and more logical nodes.You can see the step by stepanalysis that takes place,and as they build up their model,they move their nodes around,rearranging them like Lego blocks.Now, though this might seem trivial,it&#39;s actually really important.This rapid iteration of expressingand then reflecting and analyzingis really the only wayin which we get clarity.It&#39;s the essence of the design process.And systems theorists do tell usthat the ease with whichwe can change a representationcorrelates to our willingnessto improve the model.So sticky note systemsare not only more fluid,they generally produceway more nodes than static drawings.The drawings are much richer.
时间： 4:34
zh-cn:这便将我们带入这个练习的第三的部分，就是如何以一个小组的画出如何烤面包片。这样会发生什么呢？这是发生的状况。开始非常混乱，然后就变的真的很糟糕，之后变的更加乱了，但是当人们推敲模型的时候，最好的节点们变得更加显著，在经过每一次的重述，模型便变得更加清晰，因为人们的想法互相叠加。这样一来着出现了一个统一的模型将每个人不同的观点统一起来，这样就会和我们之前通常看到的结果大不一样，对不对？所以，这些画作会包含 20 或更多的节点，但是，参与者并不会感到混乱因为他们自己参与了模型的建造。更有趣的是，将参与组们即兴地混合和添加组织层次。为了解决矛盾，比如说，他们将格局横竖分类。哦，顺便说一句，如果他们完全安静的工作，他们的效率更高，成果也更好。非常有趣的是——讨论会降低效率。
en:And this brings usto our third part of the exercise,which is to draw how to make toast,but this time in a group.So what happens then?Well, here&#39;s what happens.It starts out messy,and then it gets really messy,and then it gets messier,but as people refine the models,the best nodes become more prominent,and with each iteration,the model becomes clearerbecause people buildon top of each other&#39;s ideas.What emerges is a unified systems modelthat integrates the diversityof everyone&#39;s individual points of view,so that&#39;s a really different outcomefrom what usually happens in meetings, isn&#39;t it?So these drawings can contain20 or more nodes,but participants don&#39;t feel map shockbecause they participate in the buildingof their models themselves.Now, what&#39;s also really interesting,that the groups spontaneously mixand add additional layersof organization to it.To deal with contradictions, for example,they add branching patternsand parallel patterns.Oh, and by the way,if they do it in complete silence,they do it much betterand much more quickly.Really interesting —talking gets in the way.
时间： 5:41
zh-cn:这个练习带来了一些关键的启发。首先，绘图帮助我们用节点的方式理解不同情况和它们之间的关系。可移动的卡片生产出更好的模型，因为我们可以更流畅的重新表述。其次群体的绘图生产出更加全面的模型因为我们将各个观点合成。这很有趣。当人们在正确的环境下一起工作，团队模型要比个人模型好很多。
en:So here&#39;s some key lessonsthat can emerge from this.First, drawing helps usunderstand the situationsas systems with nodesand their relationships.Movable cards producebetter systems models,because we iterate much more fluidly.And then the group notes produce the most comprehensive modelsbecause we synthesizeseveral points of view.So that&#39;s interesting.When people work togetherunder the right circumstances,group models are much betterthan individual models.
时间： 6:11
zh-cn:所以这个方法对于画烤面包非常有效，但是如果你要画些更加严肃的话题呢？比如组织远景，或是客户体验，或是长期的可持续发展。
en:So this approach works really greatfor drawing how to make toast,but what if you wanted to drawsomething more relevant or pressing,like your organizational vision,or customer experience,or long-term sustainability?
时间： 6:27
zh-cn:这个视觉上的革命正随着更多的组织通过集体绘画的方式来解决那些复杂困难的问题。我相信那些可以将他们的世界看作可移动节点和链接的人会有很大的优势。
en:There&#39;s a visual revolutionthat&#39;s taking placeas more organizationsare addressing their wicked problemsby collaboratively drawing them out.And I&#39;m convinced that those who seetheir world as movable nodes and linksreally have an edge.
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:这个的实践真的非常简单。你以一个问题开始，收集节点，优化节点，反复优化，不断的优化，便有规律会出现，组群便明晰起来，然后你得到了问题的答案。
en:And the practice is really pretty simple.You start with a question,you collect the nodes,you refine the nodes,you do it over again,you refine and refine and refine,and the patterns emerge,and the group gets clarityand you answer the question.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:所以这简单的视觉化行为和不断地优化产生出一些非常显著的结果。需要注意的一点是交流是很重要的，而不仅仅是模型本身。这些可视的参考框架可以有数百甚至上千的节点。举一个来自罗达尔组织的例子。那是一个很大的出版公司。有一年他们损失了很多钱，他们的执行队伍花了三天将他们的全部经历可视化。有趣的是，在他们将他们的全部公司可视化之后，系统叠加系统，他们重新声明取回了 5 亿美元的财政收入，他们客户那里的评价也从 D 变成了 A 。为什么呢？那是因为执行队伍的齐心合作。所以我现在的任务就是帮助组织们通过合作可视化的方法解决困难的问题，在一个 drawtoast.com 的网站上我收集了一些最棒的实践练习，你们可以学习怎么运行一个研讨会，你们可以学习更多视觉语言，以及你可以运用到综合问题、解决方法上的节点和链接的结构，并且可以下载不同的范例模板去解决我们组织的困难问题。所以这些看似琐碎的画烤面包的练习，使我们更加明确，积极，和团结。
en:So this simple act of visualizingand doing over and over againproduces some really remarkable outcomes.What&#39;s really important to knowis that it&#39;s the conversationsthat are the important aspects,not just the models themselves.And these visual frames of referencecan grow to several hundredsor even thousands of nodes.So, one example is froman organization called Rodale.Big publishing company.They lost a bunch of money one year,and their executive team for three daysvisualized their entire practice.And what&#39;s interesting is thatafter visualizing the entire business,systems upon systems,they reclaimed 50 million dollars of revenue,and they also moved from a D rating to an A rating from their customers.Why? Because there&#39;salignment from the executive team.So I&#39;m now on a missionto help organizationssolve their wicked problemsby using collaborative visualization,and on a site that I&#39;ve producedcalled drawtoast.com,I&#39;ve collected a bunch of best practices.and so you can learnhow to run a workshop here,you can learn more aboutthe visual languageand the structure of links and nodes thatyou can apply to general problem-solving,and download examples of various templatesfor unpacking the thorny problemsthat we all face in our organizations.So the seemingly trivialdesign exercise of drawing toasthelps us get clear, engaged and aligned.
时间： 8:37
zh-cn:所以，下一次你遇到一个有趣的挑战，记住设计所教会我们的。让你的主意可视，可触摸，有结果。这很简单，有趣，强大，我相信这是一个值得庆祝的主意。
en:So next time you&#39;re confrontedwith an interesting challenge,remember what design has to teach us.Make your ideas visible,tangible, and consequential.It&#39;s simple, it&#39;s fun, it&#39;s powerful,and I believe it&#39;s an ideaworth celebrating.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 8:54
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
