时间： 0:12
zh-cn:几年前，在TED大会上， Peter Skillman介绍了一个设计挑战叫做“棉花糖挑战”是个非常简单的主意要求一组四人的团队搭建一个独立的最高建筑材料是20根意大利面条一段胶带，一段绳子一块棉花糖棉花糖必须放在最上面这虽然看似简单，其实并不容易因为它要求人们迅速地合作我觉得这是个有趣的主意我把它放到了设计专题讨论会上结果非常成功从那以后， 我在全球70多个设计专题讨论活动中让学生们和设计者，建筑师甚至财富50强的首席技术官这个练习在很多方面给了我们深刻的启迪教会我们合作的特性在这里我跟你们分享一些
en:Several years ago here at TED, Peter Skillmanintroduced a design challengecalled the marshmallow challenge.And the idea&#39;s pretty simple:Teams of four have to build the tallest free-standing structureout of 20 sticks of spaghetti,one yard of tape, one yard of stringand a marshmallow.The marshmallow has to be on top.And, though it seems really simple, it&#39;s actually pretty hardbecause it forces peopleto collaborate very quickly.And so, I thought this was an interesting idea,and I incorporated it into a design workshop.And it was a huge success.And since then, I&#39;ve conductedabout 70 design workshops across the worldwith students and designers and architects,even the CTOs of the Fortune 50,and there&#39;s something about this exercisethat reveals very deep lessonsabout the nature of collaboration,and I&#39;d like to share some of them with you.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:通常， 人们总是从讨论开始着手完成这个任务他们讨论一阵， 勾勒出结果会是什么样子他们互相争论一番对错然后花费点时间计划，组织他们画一下图纸然后拿出意大利面条他们用了大量的时间把意大利面条组装得越来越高然后最后，时间快要用完了他们拿出棉花糖小心翼翼地将棉花糖放到最上面然后他们后退一步，哈哈他们欣赏着他们的成果但是绝大多数时候，真正发生的是“哈哈” 变成了“糟了”因为棉花糖的重量把整个结构给压散架了
en:So, normally, most people beginby orienting themselves to the task.They talk about it, they figure out what it&#39;s going to look like,they jockey for power.Then they spend some time planning, organizing,they sketch and they lay out spaghetti.They spend the majority of their timeassembling the sticks into ever-growing structures.And then finally, just as they&#39;re running out of time,someone takes out the marshmallow,and then they gingerly put it on top,and then they stand back, and — ta-da! —they admire their work.But what really happens, most of the time,is that the &quot;ta-da&quot; turns into an &quot;uh-oh,&quot;because the weight of the marshmallow causes the entire structureto buckle and to collapse.
时间： 1:44
zh-cn:有那么一些人他们的“糟了”时刻比其他人多其中最糟的是新毕业的商学院学生(笑声)他们说谎，他们欺骗，很容易受干扰他们的建筑构造非常蹩脚当然也有一些团队他们创造了更多的“哈哈”时刻其中最好的，就是新毕业的幼儿园小朋友(笑声)这个真是很神奇正如PETER告诉我们的他们不但造出了最高的建筑而且他们搭建的结构也是最有趣的
en:So there are a number of peoplewho have a lot more &quot;uh-oh&quot; moments than others,and among the worst are recent graduates of business school.(Laughter)They lie, they cheat, they get distractedand they produce really lame structures.And of course there are teamsthat have a lot more &quot;ta-da&quot; structures,and among the best are recent graduates of kindergarten.(Laughter)And it&#39;s pretty amazing.As Peter tells us,not only do they produce the tallest structures,but they&#39;re the most interesting structures of them all.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:所以你会问这是怎么回事？他们到底有什么特点？Peter喜欢这样说：“因为没有任何孩子企图做意大利面条公司的总裁。” 是的他们没在争夺权力上花任何时间但是其中还有另一个原因因为商学院的学生受过的专业训练是去寻找一个正确的计划然后他们按照计划执行然而事实是， 当他们把棉花糖放到顶部时他们用完了有限的时间，然后呢危机就降临了听着很熟悉吧？是的。幼儿园的孩子的做法不一样他们从棉花糖开始他们先建一个样板模型， 然后不断在模型上加建，其间总是让棉花糖保持在最上面(不倒下来)所以他们一直有很多机会去不断修正样板模型于是设计者认识到这种合作是这个互动过程中的重要因素对每个版本，孩子都会迅速地得到反馈他们知道什么行，什么不行
en:So the question you want to ask is:How come? Why? What is it about them?And Peter likes to say thatnone of the kids spend any timetrying to be CEO of Spaghetti, Inc. Right?They don&#39;t spend time jockeying for power.But there&#39;s another reason as well.And the reason is that business students are trainedto find the single right plan, right?And then they execute on it.And then what happens is, when they put the marshmallow on the top,they run out of time and what happens?It&#39;s a crisis.Sound familiar? Right.What kindergarteners do differentlyis that they start with the marshmallow,and they build prototypes, successive prototypes,always keeping the marshmallow on top,so they have multiple times to fix when they build prototypes along the way.Designers recognize this type of collaborationas the essence of the iterative process.And with each version, kids get instant feedbackabout what works and what doesn&#39;t work.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:所以把握雏形的能力是真正的关键让我们来看看不同的队伍是怎样表现的大多数人建的塔的平均高度是20英尺商学院学生， 大概是一半律师好一些， 但也好不到哪里去幼儿园的孩子，比大多数的成年人要好谁做得最好呢？建筑师和工程师，谢天谢地。(笑声)我见过的最高的塔是39英寸为什么呢？因为他们懂得三角形和自我巩固的几何模式是建筑稳定结构的关键总裁们比平均水平稍好一些但是有趣的是如果你在他们的小组里加一个行政助理他们的成绩马上变得好很多(笑声)这真是令人难以置信， 你四处看看， 你说：“那个小组会赢。”你很早就知道， 为什么呢？因为他们有特殊的简化技巧他们管理流程， 他们懂得流程总之，任何一个小组积极管理并专注于工作本身的话小组的表现就有显著的提高特殊技能以及善于使用简便的手法两者的结合带来了成功如果你有10个队参加这个活动其中大概有6个队可以搭建可以直立的结构
en:So the capacity to play in prototype is really essential,but let&#39;s look at how different teams perform.So the average for most people is around 20 inches;business schools students, about half of that;lawyers, a little better, but not much better than that,kindergarteners, better than most adults.Who does the very best?Architects and engineers, thankfully.(Laughter)Thirty-nine inches is the tallest structure I&#39;ve seen.And why is it? Because they understand trianglesand self-reinforcing geometrical patternsare the key to buildingstable structures.So CEOs, a little bit better than average,but here&#39;s where it gets interesting.If you put you put an executive admin. on the team,they get significantly better.(Laughter)It&#39;s incredible. You know, you look around, you go, &quot;Oh, that team&#39;s going to win.&quot;You can just tell beforehand. And why is that?Because they have special skillsof facilitation.They manage the process, they understand the process.And any team who managesand pays close attention to workwill significantly improve the team&#39;s performance.Specialized skills and facilitation skillsare the combination that leads to strong success.If you have 10 teams that typically perform,you&#39;ll get maybe six or so that have standing structures.
时间： 4:30
zh-cn:我做了一个有趣的尝试我想， 我们不妨来赌一次所以我就提供了价值10万美元的软件给得胜的小组你猜猜那些学设计的学生们会有什么样的反应？结果如何？这就是结果没有一个小组完成了一个站立的建筑哪怕任何一个小组完成一个一英寸的建筑他们就可以把奖杯捧回去所以，很有意思的是高额奖金会有很大的影响。之后我们在同样的学生中又重复了这个活动你猜猜结果怎样？这回他们知道了做样版模型的价值所以最差的那个小组成为了最好的小组他们用最少的时间完成了最高的建筑这些对我们都有很深的教育意义揭示了奖励和成功的本质
en:And I tried something interesting.I thought, let&#39;s up the ante, once.So I offered a 10,000 dollar prize of software to the winning team.So what do you think happened to these design students?What was the result?Here&#39;s what happened:Not one team had a standing structure.If anyone had built, say, a one inch structure,they would have taken home the prize.So, isn&#39;t that interesting? That high stakeshave a strong impact.We did the exercise again with the same students.What do you think happened then?So now they understand the value of prototyping.So the same team went from being the very worstto being among the very best.They produced the tallest structures in the least amount of time.So there&#39;s deep lessons for usabout the nature of incentives and success.
时间： 5:21
zh-cn:所以，你也许会问：怎么会有人花时间写这么一个棉花糖的挑战原因是我可以用电子工具和流程来帮助人们造汽车，电子游戏和模拟视觉效果而棉花糖的挑战教会我们识别隐藏着的一些假设因为， 坦白说每个项目都有它们自己的棉花糖这个挑战提供了可以分享的经验一种共同的语言处理问题的通用方法就是这个简单的练习可以给我们提供的有价值的经验
en:So, you might ask: Why would anyoneactually spend time writing a marshmallow challenge?And the reason is, I help createdigital tools and processesto help teams build cars and video gamesand visual effects.And what the marshmallow challenge doesis it helps them identify the hidden assumptions.Because, frankly,every project has its own marshmallow, doesn&#39;t it?The challenge provides a shared experience,a common language,a common stance to build the right prototype.And so, this is the value of the experience,of this so simple exercise.
时间： 5:54
zh-cn:你们如果有兴趣可以去marshmallowchallenge.com网站这是一个你可以阅读的博客告诉你怎样搭建棉花糖建筑那里有具体的步骤说明还有来自世界各地的稀奇古怪的例子人们怎样调整系统那里有世界记录
en:And those of you who are interestedmay want to go to MarshmallowChallenge.com.It&#39;s a blog that you can look athow to build the marshmallows.There&#39;s step-by-step instructions on this.There are crazy examples from around the worldof how people tweak and adjust the system.There&#39;s world records that are on this as well.
时间： 6:11
zh-cn:而我相信， 最根本的教意是：设计其实是一种交流运动它要求我们把我们所有的神志都放到任务中要求我们运用最佳的思维状态我们的感知我们的行动来迎接我们面对的挑战而有的时候， 一个小小的样板模型的经验会帮助我们将“糟了” 的那一刻变成了“”哈哈”的一刻那造成的结果是大不同的
en:And the fundamental lesson, I believe,is that design truly isa contact sport.It demands that we bring all of our senses to the task,and that we apply the very best of our thinking,our feeling and our doingto the challenge that we have at hand.And sometimes, a little prototype of this experienceis all that it takes to turn usfrom an &quot;uh-oh&quot; moment to a &quot;ta-da&quot; moment.And that can make a big difference.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:谢谢你们
en:Thank you very much.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
