时间： 0:11
zh-cn:John Hockenberry:很高兴见到你，Tom.我想先问一个问题从我熟悉你的作品开始就一直让我着迷的问题。自然的力量和创造力总是以某种方式混在一起出现在你的作品里。你觉得在你的作品里，它们是平衡的吗？
en:John Hockenberry: It&#39;s great to be here with you, Tom.And I want to start with a questionthat has just been consuming mesince I first became familiar with your work.In you work there&#39;s always this kind of hybrid qualityof a natural forcein some sort of interplay with creative force.Are they ever in equilibriumin the way that you see your work?
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:Tom Shannon:通常我寻找的主要物质都是可以解决问题的。我突然想起有个问题，如果能把太阳和地球两个球体连起来，那么中间那个圆锥体会是怎么样的呢？这个椎体的尺寸，长度和锥尖和地球有着怎样的比例关系呢？所以我着手解决它，并做了这个用铜铸的模型。我做了一个大概是35尺长的。于是太阳端的直径大概是四寸，高是35尺，地球端的直径是大概是一毫米。所以，对于我来说，就算只是看看它到底是怎样的都会十分令人兴奋。如果你可以踏出外面，走进一个更大的关系网中，就好像你成为了一名宇航员一样，并把两个物体看做一个物体，因为他们是如此密切的相关。任何一个物体如果缺少另一方的存在都会变得毫无意义。
en:Tom Shannon: Yeah, the subject matter that I&#39;m looking for,it&#39;s usually to solve a question.I had the question popped into my head:What does the cone that connects the sun and the Earth look likeif you could connect the two spheres?And in proportion, what would the size of the sphereand the length, and what would the taper be to the Earth?And so I went about and made that sculpture,turning it out of solid bronze.And I did one that was about 35 feet long.The sun end was about four inches in diameter,and then it tapered over about 35 feetto about a millimeter at the Earth end.And so for me, it was really excitingjust to see what it looks likeif you could step outside and into a larger context,as though you were an astronaut,and see these two things as an object,because they are so intimately bound,and one is meaningless without the other.
时间： 1:31
zh-cn:JH:在与这些力量打交道的时候，您是否曾有过一个信念呢？同时，我正思考说与这些力量打交道时，发现新事物的直觉在其中占多少比重呢？
en:JH: Is there a reliefin playing with these forces?And I&#39;m wondering how much of a sense of discovery there isin playing with these forces.
时间： 1:41
zh-cn:TS:其实，好像磁悬浮物体一样，比如说：那里那银做的作品。这是我经过上百次对磁力进行实验的结果，我尝试找到一种可以让物体悬浮，并跟地面的接触最小化的方法。所以我最后只用一根绳子拴住它作为支撑。
en:TS: Well, like the magnetically levitated objects —like that silver one there,that was the resultof hundreds of experiments with magnets,trying to find a way to make something floatwith the least possible connection to the ground.So I got it down to just one tetherto be able to support that.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:JH：现在是用电磁力吧，那这作品是永久性的吗？
en:JH: Now is this electromagnetic here, or are these static?
时间： 2:03
zh-cn:TS：是的，那些是永久磁铁。
en:TS: Those are permanent magnets, yeah.
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:JH：因为如果打开开关， 会有很大噪音。
en:JH: Because if the power went out, there would just be a big noise.
时间： 2:08
zh-cn:TS:嗯，的确。有意见要插电的艺术品的确不方便。
en:TS: Yeah.It&#39;s really unsatisfactory having plug-in art.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:JH:我同意。
en:JH: I agree.
时间： 2:16
zh-cn:TS：磁铁的工作需要结合重力和磁性，所以它混合了很多这些对周围物体有影响的力量。太阳有很多能量是发送到行星以外的地方。而地球的磁场保护我们免受太阳伤害。所以磁性在宇宙中有了这巨大的，不可见的性质。但是，通过钟摆，我可以明白这些让磁铁悬浮的，隐形的力量。我的雕塑通常都十分简约。我尝试把它们提炼出一种简单的模式。但说到绘画的时候就十分复杂了，因为那些我认为对作品有启发性的场各自都在躁动着，它们正互相渗透，它们是互相关联的。
en:TS: The magnetic worksare a combination of gravity and magnetism,so it&#39;s a kind of mixture of these ambient forcesthat influence everything.The sun has a tremendous fieldthat extends way beyond the planetsand the Earth&#39;s magnetic field protects us from the sun.So there&#39;s this hugeinvisible shape structuresthat magnetism takes in the universe.But with the pendulum,it allows me to manifestthese invisible forcesthat are holding the magnets up.My sculpturesare normally very simplified.I try to refine them downto very simple forms.But the paintings become very complex,because I think the fieldsthat are supporting them,they&#39;re billowing, and they&#39;re interpenetrating,and they&#39;re interference patterns.
时间： 3:11
zh-cn:JH:而且它们是不确定的。我是指你开始的时候不知道你将会走到那个地方，尽管那些力量都可以被测量。所以，这个的革新是—我想这不是你首个钟摆作品。
en:JH: And they&#39;re non-deterministic.I mean, you don&#39;t know necessarily where you&#39;re headed when you begin,even though the forces can be calculated.So the evolution of this —I gather this isn&#39;t your first pendulum.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:TS:不是（JH:嗯，不是。）
en:TS: No. (JH: No.)
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:TS：我做的第一个是在70年代后期，我只有一个简单的圆锥，圆锥底部有一个栓。我把它抛出去，让它沿着一个轨迹运动，而这只有一种颜色，当它逐渐离中心越来越近的时候，颜料快用完了，所以我只能停在那里了，那时候我对那个栓没有任何遥控。所以那告诉我，我需要遥控那个装置。但是，然后我想我的画能有6种颜色。我把它大概想象成了DNA—这些颜色，红，蓝，黄，三原色和白，黑。如果你把它们用不同的方法组合起来—好像打印一样，比如说，杂志颜色就是这样混合出来的—组合的同时，用它们一定的力量控制它们沿一定轨迹运动，或者让它们前后运动或者用它们作画，这时候，这些美妙的东西开始出现了。
en:TS: The first one I did was in the late 70&#39;s,and I just had a simple conewith a spigot at the bottom of it.I threw it into an orbit,and it only had one color,and when it got to the center, the paint kept running out,so I had to run in there,didn&#39;t have any control over the spigot remotely.So that told me right away: I need a remote control device.But then I started dreaming of having six colors.I sort of think about it as the DNA —these colors, the red, blue, yellow,the primary colors and white and black.And if you put them together in different combinations —just like printing in a sense,like how a magazine color is printed —and put them under certain forces,which is orbiting themor passing them back and forthor drawing with them,these amazing things started appearing.
时间： 4:16
zh-cn:JH:这看上去我们是为了防备熊才搞成这样。
en:JH: It looks like we&#39;re loaded for bear here.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:TS：好的，让我们准备一些画布我会问一下我的徒弟们去准备几块画布放在这里。让我介绍一下—这是Jack, Nick, Louie。
en:TS: Yeah, well let&#39;s put a couple of canvases.I&#39;ll ask a couple of my sonsto set up the canvases here.I want to just say —so this is Jack, Nick and Louie.
时间： 4:31
zh-cn:JH：谢谢，伙计们。
en:JH: Thanks guys.
时间： 4:34
zh-cn:TS：所以这里有—
en:TS: So here are the —
时间： 4:36
zh-cn:JH：好，先让我走开。
en:JH: All right, I&#39;ll get out of the way here.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:TS：我准备让这个沿着轨迹运动并看看我能不能画出在场前排各位的鞋子。
en:TS: I&#39;m just going to throw this into an orbitand see if I can paint everybody&#39;s shoes in the front.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:57
zh-cn:JH：哇，这是...噢，十分漂亮。
en:JH: Whoa. That is ...ooh, nice.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:TS：我做的就是这些。我做这个是作为一个示范，更多是游戏性质的。但可见，所有这些都是可以作为素材的。我可以通过继续在上面画，一层叠一层地来改善这幅画。这个过程会持续几个星期。我会凝视它，而且我会再次重复上面的步骤以把它带到另一个层次，在那里，这些都会变成背景，深埋在画面底下。
en:TS: So something like this.I&#39;m doing this as a demo,and it&#39;s more playful,but inevitably,all of this can be used.I can redeem this painting,just continuing on,doing layers upon layers.And I keep it around for a couple of weeks,and I&#39;m contemplating it,and I&#39;ll do another session with itand bring it up to another level,where all of thisbecomes the background, the depth of it.
时间： 5:39
zh-cn:JH：这太棒了。所以底部那些管道的阀门就好像无线电飞机的阀门
en:JH: That&#39;s fantastic.So the valves at the bottom of those tubes thereare like radio-controlled airplane valves.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:TS：是啊，他们通过凸轮轴固定这些橡胶管来工作。他们可以上紧轮轴来停止它，也可以调得很松。所有颜色都从一个在底部的中央点那里出来。你可以随时改变颜色，比如把铝放进去，其实我任何东西都可以放进去。可能是番茄酱，或者什么可以分散的—沙子，粉末，或者类似的。
en:TS: Yes, they&#39;re servos with camsthat pinch these rubber tubes.And they can pinch them very tight and stop it,or you can have them wide open.And all of the colorscome out one central portat the bottom.You can always be changing colors, put aluminum paint,or I could put anything into this.It could be tomato sauce,or anything could be dispensed —sand, powders or anything like that.
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:JH：原来有如此多的力量混在这里。重力，离心力，液体表面张力。这里每一张美丽的图画，都有它们自己的特质，又超越了它们的特质，和它们曾做过的在纸张上做钟摆运动的物理现象？
en:JH: So many forces there.You&#39;ve got gravity, you&#39;ve got the centrifugal force,you&#39;ve got the fluid dynamics.Each of these beautiful paintings,are they images in and of themselves,or are they recordsof a physical eventcalled the pendulum approaching the canvas?
时间： 6:42
zh-cn:TS：那么，就着这张作品，我想做一些十分简单的事情，画一个简单，图标式的两条波浪交汇的图案。首先右手边的这一个先做，然后左边的这一个用自己的画覆盖上去。然后我留下空位让你可以看到之前做的那些。然后我做第二次，这些线真的扰乱了这作品—这些蓝色的线条在中心杂乱地穿过。所以我制造了一种张力和一种重叠。这里有些线条在右边画的那些的上面，这里有线条在左边画的那些的下面。所以我把它分进不同平面。就是这么做的，这只是一些小作品，这是一种交汇，有关....
en:TS: Well, this painting here,I wanted to do something very simple,a simple, iconic imageof two ripples interfering.So the one on the right was done first,and then the one on the leftwas done over it.And then I left gapsso you could see the one that was done before.And then when I did the second one,it really disturbed the piece —these big blue linescrashing through the center of it —and so it created a kind of tension and an overlap.There are lines in front of the one on the right,and there are lines behind the one on the left,and so it takes it into different planes.What it&#39;s also about,just the little events,the events of the interpenetration of —
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:JH：两颗星星，或者—
en:JH: Two stars, or —
时间： 7:33
zh-cn:TS：两件发生了的事情，这里是一个重叠的图案，然后，第三件事情产生了。这里一些图形掺和了进来，正是在两个图案联姻的时候。我对此十分感兴趣。就好像云纹图案的创作。比如这个绿色的，这是一幅我大概10年前画的画。但是它有一些—看，上面第三个—这里有一些云纹重叠的图案好像是想象力的不断迸发。而这是一些从来没试过在我的作品里出现的东西。我从来没有见过这种如此普遍、在我们生活中如此重要的放射状的重叠图案出现在我的画中。
en:TS: Two things that happened —there&#39;s an interference pattern, and then a third thing happens.There are shapes that come aboutjust by the marriageof two events that are happening,and I&#39;m very interested in that.Like the occurrence of moire patterns.Like this green one,this is a painting I did about 10 years ago,but it has some —see, in the upper third —there are these moires and interference patternsthat are radio kind of imagery.And that&#39;s something that in paintingI&#39;ve never seen done.I&#39;ve never seen a representationof a kind of radio interference patterns,which are so ubiquitousand such an important part of our lives.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:JH：这是画中一个真实的重叠图案，还是我眼睛错觉造成的呢?是我自己造成的这种图案吗？
en:JH: Is that a literal part of the image,or is my eye making that interference pattern —is my eye completing that interference pattern?
时间： 8:26
zh-cn:TS：是画的原因，让这感觉如此真实。这其实很容易明白。如果我定一个同心圆，或者一个同心的弧形，它只会完成这个任务，画出这些固定的线条这些线条靠得越来越近，并因此告诉人们重力到底是怎样工作的。这里有一些关于科学的正确性的东西很显而易见。我很享受这些东西。我很喜欢这些我在科学观察和仪器中见到的形状，特别是航天类的，它那广阔和精确的计算让我十分着迷。
en:TS: It is the paint actually,makes it real.It&#39;s really manifested there.If I throw a very concentric circle,or concentric ellipse,it just dutifully makesthese evenly spaced lines,which get closer and closer together,which describes how gravity works.There&#39;s something very appealingabout the exactitude of sciencethat I really enjoy.And I love the shapes that I seein scientific observationsand apparatus,especially astronomical formsand the idea of the vastness of it,the scale,is very interesting to me.
时间： 9:09
zh-cn:我近年的焦点某程度上转向了生物。有一些作品，如果你近距离地观察它们，你会发现奇怪的东西，这些东西看起来像马或者鸟又或者是鳄鱼，大象。有很多这些东西出现。如果你仔细地观察，这些图案有点像云，但有时候它们只是一个模型，而且是高度抽象了的。然后有了这些图案我不知道它们是什么，但是它们很好看，而且复杂。我想，有可能是预言。因为自从它有能力自己创造我们熟悉的生物图案，它也创造了我们不熟悉的图案。也许人们会从火星表面下发现这些图案，那些地区里有湖泊可以让鱼在下面游泳。
en:My focus in recent yearshas kind of shifted more toward biology.Some of these paintings, when you look at them very close,odd things appearthat really look like horses or birdsor crocodiles, elephants.There are lots of things that appear.When you look into it, it&#39;s sort of like looking at cloud patterns,but sometimes they&#39;re very modeled and highly rendered.And then there are all these formsthat we don&#39;t know what they are,but they&#39;re equally well-resolvedand complex.So I think, conceivably, those could be predictive.Because since it has the abilityto make formsthat look like forms that we&#39;re familiar within biology,it&#39;s also making other forms that we&#39;re not familiar with.And maybe it&#39;s the kind of formswe&#39;ll discover underneath the surface of Mars,where there are probably lakeswith fish swimming under the surface.
时间：10:04
zh-cn:JH:噢，但愿如此，天啊，让我，哦，天啊，我好像置身其中了。它好像在你生命的舞台上占据了一个位置，你自己也正处于一个矛盾的，有一系列不协调—我想有一种类似电磁力的东西在控制帕金森症，而这种创造性的力量是艺术家们朝思暮想的，也是贯穿你整个生命的一道弧线。那么这是否与你的工作相关？
en:JH: Oh, let&#39;s hope so. Oh, my God, let&#39;s.Oh, please, yes. Oh, I&#39;m so there.You know, it seemsat this stage in your life,you also very personallyare in this state of confrontationwith a sort of dissonant —I suppose it&#39;s an electromagnetic forcethat somehow governs your Parkinson&#39;sand this creative forcethat is both the artistwho is in the here and nowand this sort of arc of your whole life.Is that relevant to your work?
时间：10:38
zh-cn:TS：结果是这装置越来越便携了，因为我不一定需要好的控制电源的技术，我也能控制圆锥的滑动，这其实是一项脑力运动，我看着它，做各种决定。它需要多点红色，它需要多点蓝色，它需要一个不同的形状。所以我做出了有创意的决定并将它们用一个十分十分简单的方法付诸实践、我的意思是，我有这些症状。我想帕金森在这几年有加重的趋势，对于你来说，你会看到明显的征兆。对于我来说，就是我左手的一个特别的颤抖，我的左脚也是这样。我是左撇子，所以我画画。我的所有创意真的来源于一幅幅小绘画，我有上千张这些小画。我想东西的时候我会拿着一只铅笔画画。开始的时候，帕金森真的十分令人沮丧，因为我不能稳定的拿着铅笔。
en:TS: As it turns out,this device kind of comes in handy,because I don&#39;t have to havethe fine motor skills to do,that I can operate slides,which is more of a mental process.I&#39;m looking at it and making decisions:It needs more red, it needs more blue,it needs a different shape.And so I make these creative decisionsand can execute themin a much, much simpler way.I mean, I&#39;ve got the symptoms.I guess Parkinson&#39;s kind of creeps up over the years,but at a certain point you start seeing the symptoms.In my case,my left hand has a significant tremorand my left leg also.I&#39;m left-handed, and so I draw.All my creationsreally start on small drawings,which I have thousands of,and it&#39;s my way of just thinking.I draw with a simple pencil,and at first, the Parkinson&#39;swas really upsetting,because I couldn&#39;t get the pencil to stand still.
时间：11:45
zh-cn:JH：所以，你不是这些力量的守护者。你不觉得自己是这些力量的主人。相反，你觉得自己是它们的奴隶。
en:JH: So you&#39;re not a gatekeeper for these forces.You don&#39;t think of yourself as the master of these forces.You think of yourself as the servant.
时间：11:54
zh-cn:TS：自然是—自然是神明。它含有太多太多。我觉得自然想要表达我们也是自然地一部分，我们也是宇宙的一部分。也是自然地一部分，我们也是宇宙的一部分。宇宙在我们心中，我们心中也拥有整个宇宙。本质上说，我们是宇宙表达出来的产物。作为人类，最终成为宇宙的一部分，我们某程度上是做了表达者或者全部宇宙居民的观察者。为了与这些力量产生共鸣，我们用一个装置，让这些遍布周围的力量展示它能做的事情，给它们色彩，让它们如艺术家般作画，这是一种很好的关系。这是个让人震惊的工作室助手。
en:TS: Nature is — well, it&#39;s a godsend.It just has so much in it.And I think naturewants to express itselfin the sense that we are nature,humans are of the universe.The universe is in our mind,and our minds are in the universe.And we are expressionsof the universe, basically.As humans,ultimately being part of the universe,we&#39;re kind of the spokespeopleor the observer partof the constituencyof the universe.And to interface with it,with a device that lets these forcesthat are everywhereact and show what they can do,giving them pigment and paint just like an artist,it&#39;s a good ally.It&#39;s a terrific studio assistant.
时间：12:48
zh-cn:JH： 我喜欢这个想法在这个想法里有着一些你双手可以控制的传统技术，里面夹带着正面的情绪和控制。一些掺杂各种元素的力量得到呈现，而这正是它美丽之处。Tom，非常感谢，这感觉真的是棒极了。
en:JH: Well, I love the ideathat somewhere within this ideaof fine motion and controlwith the traditional skillsthat you have with your hand,some sort of more elemental force gets revealed,and that&#39;s the beauty here.Tom, thank you so much. It&#39;s been really, really great.
时间：13:06
zh-cn:TS：谢谢，John.
en:TS: Thank you, John.
时间：13:08
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
