时间： 0:11
zh-cn:当科技不断进步之时，我们之中的大多数人都会断言这些演进将使我们更为聪慧以及与世界更为紧密相连。不过，我却想说明进步不单单只是“进步”，进步的过程不能单用变化一词来形容，当变革发生之时，我们既有得亦有失。
en:As technology progresses,and as it advances,many of us assume that these advancesmake us more intelligent,make us smarter and more connected to the world.And what I&#39;d like to argueis that that&#39;s not necessarily the case,as progress is simply a word for change,and with change you gain something,but you also lose something.
时间： 0:33
zh-cn:为了证明我的观点，我将会告诉你们科学技术是如何解决一个简单、大众的问题。这个问题则是这样的。什么是时间？什么是时间？假如你扫一眼你的iPhone，它可以很简单地告诉你现在是什么时间。但是，我想问你们，假若你没有iPhone，你会如何知道现在是什么时间？或者说600年前，你将怎么知道时间？你如何去获取此项信息？
en:And to really illustrate this point, what I&#39;d like to dois to show you how technology has dealt witha very simple, a very common, an everyday question.And that question is this.What time is it? What time is it?If you glance at your iPhone, it&#39;s so simple to tell the time.But, I&#39;d like to ask you, how would you tell the timeif you didn&#39;t have an iPhone?How would you tell the time, say, 600 years ago?How would you do it?
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:有一项物品将会有助于获取时间信息，这件物品就是星盘。在当今时间，星盘的存在已鲜为人知了。不过于13世纪时，星盘是当时的日常用品。星盘是当时最为盛行的工具。星盘是一件天文仪器，上面刻画着星图。因此，星盘的网环是与天上的一部分星星相照应。这件圆盘则与地平坐标系相照应。而星盘的主体圆形铜盘则有一些刻度以供使用及将盛放其它部件。
en:Well, the way you would do it is by using a devicethat&#39;s called an astrolabe.So, an astrolabe is relatively unknown in today&#39;s world.But, at the time, in the 13th century,it was the gadget of the day.It was the world&#39;s first popular computer.And it was a device that, in fact, is a model of the sky.So, the different parts of the astrolabe, in this particular type,the rete corresponds to the positions of the stars.The plate corresponds to a coordinate system.And the mater has some scales and puts it all together.
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:假如你是一名受过教育的儿童，你应懂得如何使用一件星盘，同时也应懂得如何制作星盘。因为第一份有关星盘的著作，第一份用英语写成的说明手册，是由杰弗雷·乔叟(注:英国诗歌之父)写成的。没错，就是那位杰弗雷·乔叟，写于1391年，写给他的儿子，他11岁大的儿子路易斯。于这本书里，小路易斯可以从中学到构建星盘的主要方法。
en:If you were an educated child,you would know how to not only use the astrolabe,you would also know how to make an astrolabe.And we know this because the first treatise on the astrolabe,the first technical manual in the English language,was written by Geoffrey Chaucer.Yes, that Geoffrey Chaucer, in 1391,to his little Lewis, his 11-year-old son.And in this book, little Lewis would know the big idea.
时间： 2:01
zh-cn:构建星盘的核心技术就是赤平投影。一般来说，赤平投影就是将夜空的三维影像投射至一个平滑、可移动的二维表面。这个构思是相对较为简单的。想象一下地球是宇宙的中心，而环绕这个地球的天空都被投射至一个球体上。球体上的每一点都通过此球体的极点投射至一平面，而这些资料就因此被记录。
en:And the central idea that makes this computer workis this thing called stereographic projection.And basically, the concept is,how do you represent the three-dimensional imageof the night sky that surrounds usonto a flat, portable, two-dimensional surface.The idea is actually relatively simple.Imagine that that Earth is at the center of the universe,and surrounding it is the sky projected onto a sphere.Each point on the surface of the sphereis mapped through the bottom pole,onto a flat surface, where it is then recorded.
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:因此北极星就位于星盘的中央。而黄道将被投射至一偏离中心的圆上，黄道就是日、月和星体的轨迹。而那些闪亮的星星则会与星盘网环上的星标相对应。地平纬度则与整个盘子的体系相照应。真正吸引人的不是星盘的投影功能。而是它将两种截然不同的坐标系统完美地糅合在一起。这是太阳、月亮和星球于这个可移动网环上的位置。他们于天空上的位置则是通过观察盘子背后的纬度测出。
en:So the North Star corresponds to the center of the device.The ecliptic, which is the path of the sun, moon, and planetscorrespond to an offset circle.The bright stars correspond to little daggers on the rete.And the altitude corresponds to the plate system.Now, the real genius of the astrolabe is not just the projection.The real genius is that it brings together two coordinate systemsso they fit perfectly.There is the position of the sun, moon and planets on the movable rete.And then there is their location on the skyas seen from a certain latitude on the back plate. Okay?
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:因此我们因如何使用这件器具？请诸位稍等一会儿。这是一件星盘。很漂亮，不是么？牛津大学历史博物馆是可出租这件星盘的。你可以清晰地观察到星盘的不同部位。这是星盘的主体圆形铜盘，背面则是刻度。这是网环。看到了吗？这就是可移动的部分。而于星盘的内部，则是一蛛网图案。而此蛛网图案则与当地的天球坐标系相照应。这是一条标杆。而在盘子的背面则是一些其它的设备，有一条窥管和一些刻度，它们可以帮助进行计算。
en:So how would you use this device?Well, let me first back up for a moment.This is an astrolabe. Pretty impressive, isn&#39;t it?And so, this astrolabe is on loan from usfrom the Oxford School of — Museum of History.And you can see the different components.This is the mater, the scales on the back.This is the rete. Okay. Do you see that?That&#39;s the movable part of the sky.And in the back you can seea spider web pattern.And that spider web pattern corresponds to the local coordinates in the sky.This is a rule device. And on the backare some other devices, measuring toolsand scales, to be able to make some calculations. Okay?
时间： 3:57
zh-cn:其实我很想得到一件星盘。我的毕业作品就是一件纸质星盘。这件星盘则是一份仿制品，是仿制一件15世纪的星盘。这件仿制品大概与三本Macbook Pro等值。但真品却比我的房子还贵，还要加上我旁边的房子，应该是整条街的房子加起来都没真品贵重，或许还得附加一间学校，以及一些—教堂。它们价值连城。
en:You know, I&#39;ve always wanted one of these.For my thesis I actually built one of these out of paper.And this one, this is a replicafrom a 15th-century device.And it&#39;s worth probably about three MacBook Pros.But a real one would cost about as much as my house,and the house next to it, and actually every house on the block,on both sides of the street,maybe a school thrown in, and some — you know, a church.They are just incredibly expensive.
时间： 4:24
zh-cn:让我来向你们演示下这件星盘是如何使用的。先从第一步开始。第一件事是你首先得从夜空中选择一颗星星，当然只是在夜晚使用星盘时才这样做。今晚，你可以很清楚地察看到夏季大三角。哪里有一颗极明的星星，它叫做天津四。我们就选择天津四吧。第二步，你应测量天津四的地平纬度。举起星盘，然后用目光测准它的高度，我可以很清晰地观测到它。好，让我们记录下它的高度。大概是26度。你们是看不到的。第三步，于星盘的正面辨别此颗星星的位置。天津四是在这里。第四步则是移动网环，这就好譬如移动整个天空，从而使星体的地平纬度与后面的刻度相对应。当一切准备就绪时，一个栩栩如生的天空模型就此出现了。在某种程度上来说，我是将宇宙的模型置于吾之手中。最后一步，就是使用标杆，将标杆移至日期刻度线上，从这我们可以得知现在是什么时间。这就是如何使用这件设备。(笑声)
en:But let me show you how to work this device.So let&#39;s go to step one.First thing that you do is you select a starin the night sky, if you&#39;re telling time at night.So, tonight, if it&#39;s clear you&#39;ll be able to see the summer triangle.And there is a bright star called Deneb. So let&#39;s select Deneb.Second, is you measure the altitude of Deneb.So, step two, I hold the device up,and then I sight its altitude thereso I can see it clearly now.And then I measure its altitude.So, it&#39;s about 26 degrees. You can&#39;t see it from over there.Step three is identify the star on the front of the device.Deneb is there. I can tell.Step four is I then move the rete,move the sky, so the altitude of the starcorresponds to the scale on the back.Okay, so when that happenseverything lines up.I have here a model of the skythat corresponds to the real sky. Okay?So, it is, in a sense,holding a model of the universe in my hands.And then finally, I take a rule,and move the rule to a date linewhich then tells me the time here.Right. So, that&#39;s how the device is used.(Laughter)
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:我知道你们在想什么。“这不是很麻烦么？我们不是得需要做很多准备工作以来得知时间么？”与扫一眼iPod相比，使用星盘得耗费更多的时间。但这两者之间是稍有区分的，当你使用iPod或iPhone时，你只能得知时间，得知精准的时分秒。而小路易斯则是通过观察天空以来得知时间的。而且他同时也将知道天空是怎么样的。从中小路易斯将不仅仅得知时间是什么，同时他也可知晓日昇于何处以及太阳的运动轨迹。他亦将知道日昇、日落之时。最终他将知晓天空中所有物件的位置。
en:So, I know what you&#39;re thinking:&quot;That&#39;s a lot of work, isn&#39;t it? Isn&#39;t it a ton of work to be able to tell the time?&quot;as you glance at your iPod to just check out the time.But there is a difference between the two, because with your iPodyou can tell — or your iPhone, you can tell exactlywhat the time is, with precision.The way little Lewis would tell the timeis by a picture of the sky.He would know where things would fit in the sky.He would not only know what time it was,he would also know where the sun would rise,and how it would move across the sky.He would know what time the sun would rise, and what time it would set.And he would know that for essentially every celestial objectin the heavens.
时间： 6:20
zh-cn:于电脑图像及电脑用户界面设计中有一专业术语名为“功能可见性”。意即当使用者拿起这件物件时，它将会知道这件物品的那些特质。而星盘则允许我们与夜空相连，它可以使我们观察夜空从而将无形和有形的东西糅合在一起。这仅仅是一种功能。令人惊讶的是星盘大概有350,400种用途，这些仅是从文本中得知，而一般的实际用途则已逾千种。
en:So, in computer graphicsand computer user interface design,there is a term called affordances.So, affordances are the qualities of an objectthat allow us to perform an action with it.And what the astrolabe does is it allows us,it affords us, to connect to the night sky,to look up into the night sky and be much more —to see the visible and the invisible together.So, that&#39;s just one use. Incredible,there is probably 350, 400 uses.In fact, there is a text, and that has over a thousand usesof this first computer.
时间： 6:56
zh-cn:星盘的背后是刻度和测量仪器，他们具有定位的功能。你可以发起一场调查。古巴格达城就进行过类似的调查。同时星盘也可以用来运算各种数学方程。大学是值得专门为星盘研究开设课程。星盘拥有悠久的历史。它已逾两千岁了。赤平投影的理论大约是形成于公元前330年。
en:On the back there is scales and measurementsfor terrestrial navigation.You can survey with it. The city of Baghdad was surveyed with it.It can be used for calculating mathematical equations of all different types.And it would take a full university course to illustrate it.Astrolabes have an incredible history.They are over 2,000 years old.The concept of stereographic projectionoriginated in 330 B.C.
时间： 7:19
zh-cn:星盘有各种各样的形状和结构。这是可携带的，那个则是展示所用的。我认为星盘的共通点则是它们都是艺术的结晶。从星盘中显示的技艺和精准度是令人为之动容的。
en:And the astrolabes come in many differentsizes and shapes and forms.There is portable ones. There is large display ones.And I think what is common to all astrolabesis that they are beautiful works of art.There is a quality of craftsmanship and precisionthat is just astonishing and remarkable.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:星盘也会如当今科技一般进化。最早的网环是非常原始和简陋的。而更为先进的网环则成为了文化的象征。这只星盘是来自牛津大学。我认为这只星盘是独此一家的，因为它的网环形状是完全对称的，然而它所描绘的则是缤纷四呈的天空。言语已无法形容其之神奇。
en:Astrolabes, like every technology, do evolve over time.So, the earliest retes, for example, were very simple and primitive.And advancing retes became cultural emblems.This is one from Oxford.And I find this one really extraordinary because the rete patternis completely symmetrical,and it accurately maps a completely asymmetrical, or random sky.How cool is that? This is just amazing.
时间： 7:58
zh-cn:那么，小路易斯能拥有他自己的星盘么？他拥有的大概不是黄铜制星盘。他有可能用木头或纸来制作星盘。当时大部分星盘皆是便携设备它们一般可以存放于你的荷包中。因此星盘给予了我什么启迪？第一，它提醒了我，我们祖先的智慧并不输于今人。这是一件惊人的设备。
en:So, would little Lewis have an astrolabe?Probably not one made of brass. He would have one made out of wood,or paper. And the vast majority of this first computerwas a portable devicethat you could keep in the back of your pocket.So, what does the astrolabe inspire?Well, I think the first thing is thatit reminds us just how resourceful people were,our forebears were, years and years ago.It&#39;s just an incredible device.
时间： 8:26
zh-cn:所有的技术都会进步。而每项技术之间都是相互关联、相互影响的如今的技术使我们获得了精准度。同时，我认为我们失去了对天空的感知。了解天空，了解天空与我们之间的联系应是“时间是什么”的真正答案。
en:Every technology advances.Every technology is transformed and moved by others.And what we gain with a new technology, of course,is precision and accuracy.But what we lose, I think, isan accurate — a felt senseof the sky, a sense of context.Knowing the sky, knowing your relationship with the sky,is the center of the real answerto knowing what time it is.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:我认为星盘是一件非凡的器具。因此，我们从中可以学得什么？基本上来说，我们可以从中学得我们与世界之间的微妙联系。了解星盘，可以使我们得回这种感觉，得回物与物之间是如何联系的感觉，以及我们是如何与世界相连的感觉。非常感谢。(鼓掌)
en:So, it&#39;s — I think astrolabes are just remarkable devices.And so, what can you learn from these devices?Well, primarily that there is a subtle knowledgethat we can connect with the world.And astrolabes return us to this subtle senseof how things all fit together,and also how we connect to the world.Thanks very much.(Applause)
