时间： 0:11
zh-cn:去年在TED我们试图用一个名为大视野的项目来清晰地地展示我们在TED大会上感受到及其复杂和丰富的信息大视野是由650张草图所组成这都是由两位视觉艺术家所做的。The Grove的大卫司比特，和Autodesk的凯文理查兹他们所做的650张草图都致力于抓住每个演讲者思维的奥义。而且共识是，这成功了。这些草图让这些关键的思维有了生命，这些肖像，这些神奇时刻都是我们去年所经历过的。
en:Last year at TED we aimed to try to clarifythe overwhelming complexityand richness that we experience at the conferencein a project called Big Viz.And the Big Viz is a collection of 650 sketchesthat were made by two visual artists.David Sibbet from The Grove,and Kevin Richards, from Autodesk,made 650 sketches that strive to capturethe essence of each presenter&#39;s ideas.And the consensus was: it really worked.These sketches brought to life the key ideas,the portraits, the magic momentsthat we all experienced last year.
时间： 0:48
zh-cn:今年我们则在思考，&quot;这为什么会成功？&quot;究竟是动画，平面图像，插图的哪些东西创造了含义？不仅提出这个问题是十分重要的，同时回答也是十分重要的。因为我们越是了解大脑怎样创造含义，我们就可以更好的沟通。同时我也认为，这让我们可以更好的在一起思考和合作。所以今年我们来看看大脑怎样去视觉化.
en:This year we were thinking, &quot;Why does it work?&quot;What is it about animation,graphics, illustrations, that create meaning?And this is an important question to ask and answerbecause the more we understand how the brain creates meaning,the better we can communicate,and, I also think, the better we can think and collaborate together.So this year we&#39;re going to visualize howthe brain visualizes.
时间： 1:11
zh-cn:当代的认知心理学家告诉我们，大脑看到的并不是世界本来的样貌，而是创造了一系列的心智模式这些模式是通过一系列的 &quot;开窍时刻，&quot;或是在各种探索过程中获取的瞬间发现
en:Cognitive psychologists now tell us that the braindoesn&#39;t actually see the world as it is,but instead, creates a series of mental modelsthrough a collection of &quot;Ah-ha moments,&quot;or moments of discovery, through various processes.
时间： 1:23
zh-cn:这个过程，很显然，是从眼睛开始发生的。光线深入，刺激视网膜的后部，然后被分发，大部分是分流到大脑的最后一部分，那就是初级视觉皮层。不过初级视觉皮层感知的是简单的几何型，只是一些简单的几何形状。但是它同时也像一个中转站一样把信息散布和转到大脑的不同部位，多达30个其他的区域选择性的创造意义通过一些&quot;开窍&quot;经验创造更多意义。我们只会讨论其中的三个。
en:The processing, of course, begins with the eyes.Light enters, hits the back of the retina, and is circulated,most of which is streamed to the very back of the brain,at the primary visual cortex.And primary visual cortex sees just simple geometry,just the simplest of shapes.But it also acts like a kind of relay stationthat re-radiates and redirects informationto many other parts of the brain.As many as 30 other parts that selectively make more sense,create more meaning through the kind of &quot;Ah-ha&quot; experiences.We&#39;re only going to talk about three of them.
时间： 1:55
zh-cn:第一个叫做腹面流。这是在大脑的这一边。大脑的这个区域将会识别这是什么东西。这是一个&quot;这是什么物体&quot;的探测器。看看手，看看一个遥控器。椅子。书本。所以大脑的这个区域将会被激活当你用一个词去描述一个东西的时候。
en:So the first one is called the ventral stream.It&#39;s on this side of the brain.And this is the part of the brain that will recognize what something is.It&#39;s the &quot;what&quot; detector.Look at a hand. Look at a remote control. Chair. Book.So that&#39;s the part of the brain that is activatedwhen you give a word to something.
时间： 2:15
zh-cn:大脑的第二个部分叫做背流。它的功能在实体物理空间里给对象定位。所以如果你看看这个讲台的周围你会创造一种讲台的心理地图。而且如果你闭上眼睛，你还可以继续在大脑内通过这个地图导航。如果你这样做的化，你就会激活这个背流。
en:A second part of the brain is called the dorsal stream.And what it does is locates the objectin physical body space.So if you look around the stage hereyou&#39;ll create a kind of mental map of the stage.And if you closed your eyes you&#39;d be able to mentally navigate it.You&#39;d be activating the dorsal stream if you did that.
时间： 2:35
zh-cn:我将要谈到的第三个部分是关于边缘系统。这个是在大脑的最深处。它十份古老，就进化而言。它是创造感知的那个部位。这就像一个器官中心，当你看到一个图片然后你觉得，&quot;哦！我正在看的东西给我一个强烈的反映。&quot;
en:The third part that I&#39;d like to talk aboutis the limbic system.And this is deep inside of the brain. It&#39;s very old, evolutionarily.And it&#39;s the part that feels.It&#39;s the kind of gut center, where you see an imageand you go, &quot;Oh! I have a strongor emotional reaction to whatever I&#39;m seeing.&quot;
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:这样结合这些处理中心就可以帮助我们用不同的方法去创造含义。那么我们可以从中学到什么呢？我们如何运用这些我们所观察到的东西呢？我们再来图解一下：眼睛会询问我们所看到了什么。大脑则平行的处理这些虚构的信息，同时问到很多问题用来创造一个统一的心智模型。
en:So the combination of these processing centershelp us make meaning in very different ways.So what can we learn about this? How can we apply this insight?Well, again, the schematic viewis that the eye visually interrogates what we look at.The brain processes this in parallel, the figments of informationasking a whole bunch of questionsto create a unified mental model.
时间： 3:14
zh-cn:这样，打个比方，当你看到这个图像一个好的平面图像会邀请眼睛在这四周停留，选择性的去创造一个视觉逻辑。这种参与行为，注视图象的过程产生意义是一个选择性的逻辑。现在我们已经讨论过了和分类了这个信息。你们中的许多人也许记得我们建造的魔术墙壁那是运用了感知像素的那里我们实际上创造了一堵无限的墙。这样一来我们就可以比较和对比一些庞大的思维。那是用行为和创造互动的影像来丰富含义。这个激活了大脑的不同部分。然后是边缘系统被激活，当我们看到动态，当我们看到颜色的时候，然后这个初级形状和图案探测器就是我们之前听过的那个。
en:So, for example, when you look at this imagea good graphic invites the eye to dart around,to selectively create a visual logic.So the act of engaging, and looking at the image creates the meaning.It&#39;s the selective logic.Now we&#39;ve augmented this and spatialized this information.Many of you may remember the magic wall that we builtin conjunction with Perceptive Pixelwhere we quite literally create an infinite wall.And so we can compare and contrast the big ideas.So the act of engaging and creating interactive imageryenriches meaning.It activates a different part of the brain.And then the limbic systemis activated when we see motion, when we see color,and there are primary shapes and pattern detectorsthat we&#39;ve heard about before.
时间： 4:00
zh-cn:那么这其中的意义是？我们通过看见的来创造含义，通过一个视觉的审问。这给我们的启发是3方面的。第一，用图像来澄清我们所要交流的。第二，让这些图像是互动的所以我们会尽可能的投入自己的行为。第三点是增强记忆通过创造一个持续性的视觉。这些都是可以被运用在 —这些技术可以被广泛运用在 解决各种领域的很多问题上 。
en:So the point of this is what?We make meaning by seeing,by an act of visual interrogation.The lessons for us are three-fold.First, use images to clarify what we&#39;re trying to communicate.Secondly make those images interactiveso that we engage much more fully.And the third is to augment memoryby creating a visual persistence.These are techniques that can be used to be —that can be applied in a wide range of problem solving.
时间： 4:29
zh-cn:所以低端的版本看起来是这样的。还有，顺便说一句 ，这就是我们怎么样用Autodesk开发和制定计划的。在我们一部分的机构和部门里，我们其实就是把所有的组员集合在一堵巨大的墙前来制定工作策略和计划。这十分有用，因为每个人都可以看到每一个部分。这里总有地方，总有一个地方可以让计划方针里的组件产生意义。
en:So the low-tech version looks like this.And, by the way, this is the way in whichwe develop and formulatestrategy within Autodesk,in some of our organizations and some of our divisions.What we literally do is have the teamsdraw out the entire strategic planon one giant wall.And it&#39;s very powerful because everyone gets to see everything else.There&#39;s always a room, always a placeto be able to make sense of all of the componentsin the strategic plan.
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:这是一个快进的小电影。你可能问到，&quot;谁是老板？&quot;你会找出来的。那么集体分工合作的行为建立起了图像近而转化成合作。在这两天里没有用到Powerpoint。但是整个小组创造了一个分享的心智模型这个模型都被他们认可而且可以近一步的发展。
en:This is a time-lapse view of it.You can ask the question, &quot;Who&#39;s the boss?&quot;You&#39;ll be able to figure that out. (Laughter)So the act of collectively and collaborativelybuilding the imagetransforms the collaboration.No Powerpoint is used in two days.But instead the entire teamcreates a shared mental modelthat they can all agree on and move forward on.
时间： 5:28
zh-cn:这个过程可以通过采用新兴点子技术而得到增强和补充。今天我们就要进行盛大的揭幕仪式。这个是一个新兴技术，使用大荧屏，在后台拥有智能计算功能，使不可见的内容视觉化。这里我们可以非常直接地看到连续性。所以一个小组实际上可以看着组成结构的所有关键部分然后做出决定，再然后看到最后的结果这整个都被屏幕所视觉化了。
en:And this can be enhanced and augmented withsome emerging digital technology.And this is our great unveiling for today.And this is an emerging set of technologiesthat use large-screen displayswith intelligent calculation in the backgroundto make the invisible visible.Here what we can do is look at sustainability, quite literally.So a team can actually look atall the key components that heat the structureand make choices and then see the end resultthat is visualized on this screen.
时间： 6:00
zh-cn:所以赋予图像含义有三个部件。第一个， 是通过视觉化他们来把想法解释的更清楚。第二个，让他们具有互动成分。然后第三个，让他们具有持久性。而且我相信这3个原则可以被运用到解决一些十分困难的问题上面，一些世界上我们现在面对的问题上。十分感谢。
en:So making images meaningful has three components.The first again, is making ideas clear by visualizing them.Secondly, making them interactive.And then thirdly, making them persistent.And I believe that these three principlescan be applied to solving some of the very tough problemsthat we face in the world today. Thanks so much.
时间： 6:18
zh-cn:掌声
en:(Applause)
