时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这是我做的一个雕塑，算是将一个具有不同程度自由的物体从一种形态解放的一种方式吧。这样在某种程度上就达成一种平衡。这个铜球，铝制手臂，还有这个木制盘子。这个木盘子是为了你可以抓住什么而设计的，这样你可以容易地转动它。用铝是因为它很轻。铜是因为它轻重适宜，而且可以在地上持续滚动。铜球的内部有个铅块，绕着一个轴心作自由摆动，轴心就在两个轴承之间移动，像这个样子，就抵消了这个重量。这样球就可以滚动。这样球就保持平衡，从各种角度看都一样都好像，总是保持不动。但当你在顶部放个东西，就打破了这种平衡。它就会翻过来。这时，因为它的内部是可以自由摆动的，它也可以站稳。这个模型的第二个层面是-我改了个比例，我把月亮的直径和地球的直径的比例运用到了其中。
en:This is a sculpture I made,which is a way of, kind of, freeing a forminto an object that has different degrees of freedom.So, it can balance on a point.This is a bronze ball,an aluminum arm here,and then this wooden disk.And the wooden disk was really thought aboutas something that you&#39;d want to hold on to,and that would glide easily through your hands.The aluminum is because it&#39;s very light.The bronze is nice hard, durable materialthat could roll on the ground.Inside of the bronze ballthere&#39;s a lead weightthat is free-swinging on an axlethat&#39;s on two bearingsthat pass in between, across it,like this, that counterbalance this weight.So it allows it to roll.And the sphere has that balance propertythat it always sort of stays stilland looks the same from every direction.But if you put something on top of it,it disbalances it. And so it would tip over.But in this case becausethe interior is free-swingingin relation to the sphere,it can stand up on one point.And then there was a second level to this object,which is that it —I wanted it to convey some proportions that I was interested in,which is the diameter of the Moonand the diameter of the Earthin proportion to each other.
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:早期我探究的是，让物体浮在空中。我想出了很多点子。这是我做的一个模型-磁悬浮的。这个东西，有点点危险。一般情况下，在博物馆里都是放在封闭的展柜中。但是，唔-我们来看看我能否来操纵它，就一点点-哦-只是悬浮着，悬浮在永久磁场中，在任何方向都是稳定的。除了这里的一小点约束，保证它不会偏离磁场。这就好像在磁场上冲浪。支持着物体保持稳定。
en:I was exploring, really early on,wanting to make things float in the air.And I thought up a lot of ideas.This is sculpture that I made that —it&#39;s magnetically levitated.The thing is, is that it&#39;s slightly dangerous.Normally it&#39;s sort of cordoned off when it&#39;s in a museum.But it&#39;s uh — let&#39;s see if I can manipulate it a little bitwithout, um — oops.So this is just floating,floating on a permanent magnetic field,which stabilizes it in all directions.Except there is a slight tether here,which keeps it from going over the top of its field.It&#39;s sort of surfing on a magnetic fieldat the crest of a wave.And that&#39;s what supports the object and keeps it stable.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:管理人员，我想我们可以播放录像了。我这里有几个不同的模型的录像，我可以给大家讲解。这个是太阳和地球的模型，按照真实比例做的。光和重力把他们连接起来要八分半钟的时间。这个是地球。比一毫米少一点点，是铜制的。
en:I think we could roll the tape, admin.I have a sort of a collection of videosthat I took of different installations, which I could narrate.This is a sculpture of the Sunand the Earth, in proportion.Representing that eight and a half minutesthat it takes light and gravity to connect the two.So here is the Earth. It&#39;s a little less than a millimeterthat was turned of solid bronze.
时间： 3:15
zh-cn:这是个类似的 雕塑。末端是太阳。然后是一系列的55个球，每个球都按一定比例缩小，每个球和其之间的距离也按比例缩小，直到最后这个最小的球。这在韩国大田的一座雕塑公园中展出。
en:And here is a similar sculpture.That&#39;s the Sun at that end.And then in a series of 55 balls,it reduces, proportionately — each balland the spaces between themreduce proportionately,until they get down to this little Earth.This is in a sculpture park in Taejon.
时间： 3:41
zh-cn:这个是月亮的模型。也是按比例，是到地球的距离。这是个小石球，悬浮着。你可以看见这个小锁链，也是磁悬浮的。
en:This one is about the Moonand then the distance to the Earth, in proportion also.This is a little stone ball, floating.As you can see the little tether,that it&#39;s also magnetically levitated.
时间： 3:58
zh-cn:这个是第一部分-109个圆球，因为太阳比地球大109倍。这是太阳的大小。剩下的每一个球都是同太阳的大小成比例的地球。这由16个同心壳组成。 每个有92个球。这是在一个12世纪的炼金术士的庭院。我觉得太阳好似个终极炼金术士。
en:And then this is the first part of —this is 109 spheres,since the Sun is 109 times the diameter of the Earth.And so this is the size of the Sun.And then each of these little spheresis the size of the Earth in proportion to the Sun.It&#39;s made up of 16 concentric shells. Each one has 92 spheres.This is in the courtyard of a twelfth-century alchemist.I was thinking that the Sun is kind of the ultimate alchemist. (Laughter)
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:好，回到这个话题上来-这个代表地球的赤道。月亮在中心。悬浮着。这是在法国。
en:So this, again, is on the subject —a slice from the equator of the Earth.And then the Moon in the center,and it&#39;s floating. And this is in France.
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:这时在日本的札幌。这在一根箭杆和一个圆球上保持着平衡，就在重心处，或者说，重心上方一点点，这意味着物体下半部比上半部重一点点。你看，就在这里旋转。它大概重一吨，或者比一吨多点。它是不锈钢做的，很沉。但是它很平衡。它会随着气流而运动。
en:This is in Sapporo.It&#39;s balancing on a shaft and a ball,right at the center of gravity, or just slightly above the center of gravity,which means that the lower half of the objectis just a little bit more weighty.So you can see it rotating here.It weighs about a ton or over a ton.It&#39;s made of stainless steel, quite thick.But it&#39;s being balanced like that in equilibrium.It&#39;s susceptible to motion by the air currents.
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:这是我做的另一组件。这些是箭头。这些箭头都是悬挂着的。它们都具有水平的磁性，这样它们就像指南针一样。所有的红色端，比如，都指向一个方向：南极。所有的蓝色方向，相反地，指向另一个方向。你四周转转，会看到不同的颜色。
en:This is another species of work that I do.These are these arrays. These spheres are all suspended,but they have magnets horizontally in themthat make them all like compasses.So all the red sides, for example, face one direction: south.And the blue side, the compliment, faces the other way.So as you turn around you&#39;re seeing different colors.
时间： 5:52
zh-cn:这个是建立在钻石结构的基础上。钻石晶体结构的出发点。在原子之间的空隙，存在很大的空间。所以我在它们之间多放了一个元素。这些白色的圆球。然后我用视频投影机间歇性地投影到圆球上。这样就有了部分图像，也就形成了看似立体的彩色圆柱，就像你穿过这个物体的时候。
en:This is based on the structure of a diamond.It was a diamond cell structurewas the point of departure.And then there were kind of large spaces in the hollowsbetween the atoms.And so I placed one more element of each one of them.These were white spheres.Then I had video projectorsthat were projecting intermittently onto the spheres.So they would catch parts of the images,and make sort of three-dimensional color volumes,as you walk through it, through the object.
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:这是我为触感通信系统所做的。为的分离出模型的触感组分，然后将其运用到通信系统中。这是想通过计算机指令移动房间内的雕塑，球体。
en:This is something I didof a tactile communication system.It was the idea of isolating the tactile component of sculpture,and then putting it into a communication system.This is an idea of moving a sculpture, a ball,that would be directed around the roomby a computer.
时间： 6:47
zh-cn:这是我设计的时钟。用巴克敏斯特•富勒的多面体图做背景。每天转动一次，与地球同步。
en:This is a clock I designed.It has Buckminster Fuller&#39;s Dymaxion Map edited here.It turns once per day in synchrony with the Earth.
时间： 6:58
zh-cn:这是个很难制作的工程。（笑声）这是个有着钻石为底的湖。上面悬浮着一个岛，有水，流动的水，可以从一个地方飞到另一个地方。它还能长大，我猜想，等将来什么时候有了纳米技术。
en:And then, this is likeprojects that are harder to build.(Laughter)This has a diamond-bottomed lake.So it&#39;s a floating islandwith water, fresh water,that can fly from place to place.This would be grown, I suppose,with nanotechnology in the future sometime.
时间： 7:22
zh-cn:工作让我拥有广泛的兴趣。其中一些仅仅是创造媒介的想法—作为雕塑的媒介，只需要改变组成雕塑的媒介，就可以改变雕塑本身使之鲜活，千变万化。我对于-水晶球的想法特别感兴趣。你能通过观察水晶球的内部来预测未来-或者是电视机，电视机也算是一个魔盒，任何东西都能够出现。我想过，很久以前，在60年代后期，我刚刚起步的时候，我受到一些影响，比如思考巴克敏斯特•富勒的伟大工程，一个联合国对面的电子球工程—还有其它正在发生的事情，那个时候的空间项目，全球概览，那样的事情。我也想到过批量生产的球形电视机可以同相机卫星轨道相连。
en:In the course of doing my workI sort of have a broad range of interests.And some of it is just the idea of creating media —media as a sculpture,something that would keep the sculpturefresh and ever-changing,by just creating the media that the sculpture is made of.And I had a lot of —always interested in the concept of a crystal ball.And the idea that you could see thingsinside of a crystal ball and predict the future —or a television set, where it&#39;s sort of like a magic boxwhere anything can appear.I had thought about, a long time ago,in the late &#39;60s — when I was just starting out,I was under the influence of thinking about Buckminster Fuller&#39;sgrand project for an electric globeacross from the United Nations —and other things that were happening,the space program at that time,and Whole Earth Catalog, things like that.I was thinking about mass produced spherical television setsthat could be linked to orbiting camera satellites.
时间： 8:37
zh-cn:下面看这里，我们的下一个片子这经过数年的演变，多次不同的叠加。但是最近的模型是，一个大概有35米的直径的飞船，也就是110英尺直径的飞船。它的整个表面覆盖着6千万个二极管，红色的，蓝色的，绿色的，让你有高品质的画面，白天也看得见。
en:So if we could roll the next film here.This has evolved over the yearsin a lot of different iterations.But this the current version of it,is a flying airshipthat is about 35 meters in diameter,about 110 feet in diameter.The whole surface of it is covered with 60 million diodes,red, blue, and green,that allow you to have a high-resolution picture, visible in daylight.
时间： 9:05
zh-cn:我有了个计划。我把它带到了 Paul MacCready的公司 AeroVironment做可行性的研究，他们分析了这个飞船，想出了很多如何推进它的创新性点子。现在我们有了一个让它变为现实的计划。这是飞船内部的控制室。这个点子，就是一些东西能够变形成为其它的东西。就像是旅游节目。它有麦克风。它的表面有摄像头。所以可以看见它所处的环境，然后能够模仿它的环境从而变为消失。它的腿可以回缩。船舱可以随你喜好开或关。它大概重20吨。它有自己的发电机。能够发出大约1百万千瓦的电力，足够亮得让你在白天也能看得见。这个点子是 做个好象旅游的节目。它真的可以用于艺术和互动。船员可以是艺术家们，音乐家们。这样飞船就实际上成为了能够回复的有思想的物体，作为一个整体互动，交流。这几乎没有噪音也不污染环境。它具有电驱动新型推进系统。可以用不同的方式同大众交流。
en:I came with a plan.I brought it to Paul MacCready&#39;s company AeroVironmentto do a feasibility study,and they analyzed it,and came up with a lot of innovative ideas about how to propel it.So we have a physical plan of how to make this actually happen.This is the control room inside of the ship.The idea of this air genie is,it&#39;s something that can just transform and become anything.It&#39;s like a traveling show.It has speakers on it. And it has camerasover the surface of it.So it can see its environment,and then it can mimic its environment and disappear.Here the legs are retracting.The cabin is open or closed, as you like.It weighs about 20 tons.It has on-board generators.It can generate about a million kilowatts,in order to be bright enoughto be visible in daylight.The idea of it is to make a kind of a traveling show.It really would be dedicated to the arts and to interacting.There would be on board a crew of artists, musicians,that would allow the thing to becomeactually kind of a conscious objectthat would respond to the moment,and to interact as an entitythat was aware, that could communicate.It&#39;s completely silent and nonpolluting.It has electric motors with a novel propulsion system.It could be interacted with large crowds in different ways.
时间：10:37
zh-cn:我主要的感兴趣的是，它如何交流，比如说，大学校区，或用于研究地球科学，世界，全球的情况。物体上的默认图片大概是高品质的地球图片。但是它可以通过互动，显示板块构造或者温室效应，或者迁徙-我们现在关心的所有问题。
en:Primarily I would be interested inhow it would interact with, say,going to a college campus,and then being used as a way of talking about the earth sciences,the world, the situation of the globe.The default image on the objectwould probably be a high-resolution Earth image.But then one could interact with thatand show plate tectonics or global warming issues, or migrations —all of the things that we&#39;re concerned with today.
时间：11:05
zh-cn:晚上时，它用来做锐舞派对，人们可以放松下来，听听音乐，欣赏灯光，很多事情。比如说，它在一个公园着陆。或者可以代表大学城。它还有个相应的网站说明它的行程。还有同样类型的图片随之互动。还能够有开放代码，这样人们也可以与之交流。还可以有个论坛，讨论人们希望在这个巨大的屏幕上看到什么。大概就是这么多吧。好啦。谢谢大家。（鼓掌）
en:And then at night the idea is thatit would be used as kind of a rave situation,where the people could cut loose,and the music and the lights, and everything.So it could land in a park, for example.Or this could represent a college green.And then it would have a corresponding websitethat would show the itinerary of this.And so interacting with the same kind of imagery.It would also be able to be an open code,so people could interact with it.It would be forum for people&#39;s ideas aboutwhat they would like to see on a giant screen of this type.So that&#39;s pretty much it.Okay. Thank you.(Applause)
