时间： 0:11
zh-cn:扎克 卡普兰（ZK）：基斯和我领导了一个研究团队。我们研究具有不可知属性的材料和技术。在过去的3年中，我们已经发现了200多种这样的材料和技术，我们从我们的文库中选取了六种我们认为最值得在TED上介绍的材料和技术。我们首先要介绍的装在你手上正拿着的黑色信封里面。它由一家叫做GelTech的日本公司制造。好，请打开这个信封。
en:Zach Kaplan: Keith and I lead a research team.We investigate materials and technologiesthat have unexpected properties. Over the last three years,we found over 200 of these things, and so we lookedback into our library and selected six we thought would be mostsurprising for TED.Of these six, the first one that we&#39;re going to talk aboutis in the black envelope you&#39;re holding.It comes from a company in Japan called GelTech. Now go ahead and open it up.
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:基斯沙赫特（KS）：请将这两片分开。不可思议的是，这么柔软的材料，磁性确如此强烈。像这样的不可思议的东西总是让我跟扎克很着迷。我们花了很长一段时间来研究为什么会是这个样子，我们最近才明白：当我们发现了稀奇的东西，那就改变了我们对这种东西的工作方式的了解。就好像你第一次看到这种胶状的磁铁，如果你一直认为磁铁都是坚硬的，那么看到这样的磁铁，你就觉得很稀奇，这也就改变了你认为的磁铁所工作的方式。
en:Keith Schacht: Now be sure and take the two pieces apart.What&#39;s unexpected about this is that it&#39;s soft, but it&#39;s also a strong magnet.Zach and I have always been fascinatedobserving unexpected things like this.We spent a long time thinking about why this is, and it&#39;s just recently that we realized:it&#39;s when we see something unexpected,it changes our understanding of the way things work.As you&#39;re seeing this gel magnet for the first time,if you assume that all magnets had to be hard,then seeing this surprised you and it changed your understandingof the way magnets could work.
时间： 1:20
zh-cn:ZK：现在，重要的是去理解不可知属性是什么。但是，真正地思考这样的属性能带来些什么的影响性，我们发现这能帮助我们发现如何运用这种属性。因此，第一个点子是将其运用在柜子门上。如果你用这种胶状的磁铁粘在柜门周围，当你关柜门时就不会发出噪音，而且磁铁的磁性会紧紧将柜门锁紧。再假想一下相同的材料，用它制作运动鞋的鞋底。然后再买一张铁板将铁板钉在衣橱门后，这样你就可以真正的将你的鞋子钉在门后，而不是用鞋柜。我特别喜欢这个点子。（笑声）如果你来我家，看到我的衣橱，我相信你一定知道为什么。那太乱啦。
en:ZK: Now, it&#39;s important to understand what the unexpected properties are.But to really think about the implications of what this makes possible,we found that it helps to think about how it could be applied in the world.So, a first idea is to use it on cabinet doors.If you line the sides of the cabinets using the gel material —if a cabinet slams shut it wouldn&#39;t make a loud noise,and in addition the magnets would draw the cabinets closed.Imagine taking the same material, but putting it on the bottom of a sneaker.You know, this way you could go to the container store and buy one of thosemetal sheets that they hang on the back of your door, in your closet,and you could literally stick your shoes up instead of using a shelf.For me, I really love this idea.(Laughter)If you come to my apartment and see my closet,I&#39;m sure you&#39;d figure out why: it&#39;s a mess.
时间： 2:09
zh-cn:KS：一方面看到这些不可知属性，另一方面看到这些不可知属性的一些应用，这更使你看到为什么这些很重要，它们的潜力有多大。但是我们发现，仅仅是我们展示我们想法的方式，就已经造成了很大的改变。
en:KS: Seeing the unexpected properties and then seeing a couple ofapplications — it helps you see why this is significant, what the potential is.But we&#39;ve found that the way we present our ideasit makes a big difference.
时间： 2:21
zh-cn:ZK：这就好像六个月前基斯和我去洛杉矶，我们同罗曼科波拉一起在星巴克和咖啡。他主要从事他公司的音乐录像和广告业务，他的公司是The Directors Bureau.但是像这样，我们正谈着，罗曼告诉我们他有点想在这方面投资。我们给他胶状磁铁，就跟你们现在拿着的一模一样，我们的想法也一样。你可以想象他的反应。罗曼马上变得很激动，他挥舞着这个信封。他将信封打开，基斯和我互相看了一眼，他开始到告诉我们他一直在构建的一些概念。这些东西让他非常的激动。然后我们看了这些概念，我们就，哇，这个家伙真是棒呀因为，他陈述概念的方式，他接近客户的方式跟我们的截然不同。他跟你做买卖就好像只有当时在打折。当我们开车回机场的时候，我们就在想，为什么这次是如此的有说服力呢？我们回想地越多，我们就越发意识到因为它让你感觉到细节，就好像你在电视上看到的一样。所以，为了TED上的讲话，我们决定将我们最喜欢的一个胶状磁铁点子同罗曼和他的(the Directors Bureau)团队一起制作了一段用于未来的产品的广告。
en:ZK: It was like six months ago that Keith and I were out in L.A.,and we were at Starbucks having coffee with Roman Coppola.He works on mostly music videos and commercialswith his company, The Directors Bureau.As we were talking, Roman told us that he&#39;s kind of an inventor on the side.And we were showing him the samegel magnet that you&#39;re holding in your hand — and you know,we shared the same ideas. And you could see it in his face:Roman starts to get really excited and he whips out this manila folder;he opens it up and Keith and I look in,and he starts showing us concepts that he&#39;s been working on.These things just get him really excited. And so we&#39;re lookingat these concepts, and we were just like, whoa, this guy&#39;s good.Because the way that he presented the concept — his approachwas totally different than ours. He sold it to you as if it was for sale right now.When we were going in the car back to the airport,we were thinking: why was this so powerful?And as we thought about it more, we realized thatit let you fill in all the details about the experience,just as if you saw it on TV. So, for TED we decided to take our favoriteidea for the gel magnet and work with Roman and his teamat the Directors Bureau to create a commercial for a productfrom the future.
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:（视频）：你需要体验速度吗？新型水上探险挑战你的极限，坐在磁悬浮的滑板上沿着水道从高处急速下降，当你要撞击底部时，踩刹车停止。水上火箭。今夏上市。
en:Narrator: Do you have a need for speed?Inventables Water Adventures dares you to launch yourselfon a magnetically-levitating board down a waterslideso fast, so tall, that when you hit the bottom, it uses brakes to stop.Aqua Rocket: coming this summer.
时间： 4:08
zh-cn:KS： 在此之前，我们给一些人看了这段广告，然后他们问我们什么时候会上市。我只是想告诉你，这个不会真的上市，这还只是个概念。
en:KS: Now, we showed the concept to a few people before this,and they asked us, when&#39;s it coming out?So I just wanted to let you know, it&#39;s not actually coming out,just the concept is.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:ZK：好，现在我们有了这些概念，确保他们从技术角度实现这些概念就很重要了。我来简要地解释一下这是如何运作的。这就是广告中出现的磁悬浮滑板。你正握着的胶体会贴在滑板底部。有两个重要原因。第一，磁铁的柔软特性保证了安全性，如果驾驶员头部受到撞击，驾驶员不会受到伤害。另外，从右边的图表可以看出，滑道底部是电磁铁。所以实际上会在下滑过程中稍微排斥驾驶者的滑板。水下流的冲力，加上磁铁的斥力使得这种滑行比市场上任何一种滑行都快。也正是如此，你需要磁性刹车系统。当你到达滑道最底端时-（笑声）-驾驶者会通过一段铝质管道。下面我把话筒给基斯，他将从技术角度解释为什么这很重要。
en:ZK: So now, when we dream up these concepts, it&#39;s important for usto make sure that they work from a technical standpoint.So I just want to quickly explain how this would work.This is the magnetically-levitating board that they mentioned in the commercial.The gel that you&#39;re holding would be lining the bottom of the board.Now this is important for two reasons.One: the soft properties of the magnet that make it so that, if it wereto hit the rider in the head, it wouldn&#39;t injure him.In addition, you can see from the diagram on the right,the underpart of the slide would be an electromagnet.So this would actually repel the rider a little bit as you&#39;re going down.The force of the water rushing down, in addition to that repulsion force,would make this slide go faster than any slide on the market.It&#39;s because of this that you need the magnetic braking system.When you get to the very bottom of the slide —(Laughter)— the rider passes through an aluminum tube.And I&#39;m going to kick it to Keith to explain why that&#39;s importantfrom a technical standpoint.
时间： 5:03
zh-cn:KS：我相信大家都知道虽然铝是一种金属，但是却不具有磁性。但是，当你将一块磁铁从铝管中穿过时，会有意想不到的事情发生。我们通过一个小试验展示给大家看到底会发生什么。（笑声）现在你们看到的是磁块慢慢地在铝管中下落。我不想跟大家讲物理，但是我希望大家知道的是磁块下落的速度越大，阻力越大。
en:KS: So I&#39;m sure all you engineers know that even though aluminum isa metal, it&#39;s not a magnetic material. But something unexpectedhappens when you drop a magnet down an aluminum tube.So we set up a quick experiment here to show that to you.(Laughter)Now, you see the magnet fell really slowly.Now, I&#39;m not going to get into the physics of it,but all you need to know is that the faster the magnet&#39;s falling,the greater the stopping force.
时间： 5:42
zh-cn:ZK： 我们下一项技术实际上是一个10英尺的棍子，就在我的口袋。（笑声）有几个不同的版本。（笑声）有些会自动地展开，就像这个。有些会自动卷起，或者保持任何形状，就像扎克手上的，可以保持展开或卷起过程中的任何形状。
en:ZK: Now, our next technology is actually a 10-foot pole,and I have it right here in my pocket.(Laughter)There&#39;re a few different versions of it.(Laughter)KS: Some of them automatically unroll like this one.They can be made to automatically roll up, or they can be madestable, like Zach&#39;s, to hold any position in between.
时间： 6:10
zh-cn:ZK：好，正当我们同买家交谈如何将这些特性运用起来或者现今如何运用这些特性，他告诉我们军队中士兵们平时将这个藏在胸前，外出时将其展开作为天线，将清楚的信号传回基地。我们也想到你也可以把它当作足球球门，游戏结束时，你就收起球门，将它放回运动包中。（笑声）
en:ZK: As we were talking to the vendor — to try to learn abouthow you could apply these, or how they&#39;re being applied currently —he was telling us that, in the military they use this oneso soldiers can keep it on their chests — very concealed —and then, when they&#39;re out on the field, erect it as an antennato clearly send signals back to the base.In our brainstorms, we came up with the idea you could use it for a soccer goal:so at the end of the game, you just roll up the goal and put it in your gym bag.(Laughter)
时间： 6:37
zh-cn:KS：有趣的是，你不需要成为一名工程师来感受到将10英寸的棍子放入包中的的那种兴奋。（笑声）我们决定来到芝加哥的大街上问街上的行人他们有什么想法。
en:KS: Now, the interesting thing about this is,you don&#39;t have to be an engineer to appreciate whya 10-foot pole that can fit in your pocket is so interesting.(Laughter)So we decided to go out onto the streets of Chicagoand ask a few people on the streets what they thought you could do with this.
时间： 6:52
zh-cn:（视频）：我会这么使用，用它清理吊顶电扇，清理房屋中的蜘蛛网。我用它做我自己的拐杖。我会做个梯子，这样能爬到树顶。一个橄榄式服务器。就像画家一样，加长画笔。我会做个备用的，当你在深海潜泳时，你可以很快地抓住鱼，收回来，你也能游的容易些，对。（笑声）
en:Man: I clean my ceiling fans with that and I get the spider websoff my house — I do it that way.Woman: I&#39;d make my very own walking stick.Woman: I would create a ladder to use to get up on top of the tree.Woman: An olive server.Man: Some type of extension pole — like what the painters use.Woman: I would make a spear that, when you went deep sea diving,you could catch the fish really fast, and then roll it back up,and you could swim easier ... Yeah.(Laughter)
时间： 7:23
zh-cn:ZK：关于我们的下一项技术，我们想做个小演示，需要一名志愿者上台来。这位先生，请上来。（笑声）请告诉大家你的名字。
en:ZK: Now, for our next technology we&#39;re going to do a little demonstration,and so we need a volunteer from the audience.You sir, come on up.(Laughter)Come on up. Tell everybody your name.
时间： 7:36
zh-cn:史蒂夫（SJ）：史蒂夫。
en:Steve Jurvetson: Steve.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:ZK：史蒂夫。好，史蒂夫，请跟着我。我们需要你站在TED牌子的正前面。就在这儿。非常棒。请拿着这个。祝你好运。（笑声）
en:ZK: It&#39;s Steve. All right Steve, now, follow me.We need you to stand right in front of the TED sign.Right there. That&#39;s great.And hold onto this. Good luck to you.(Laughter)
时间： 7:50
zh-cn:KS： 不，还没有。（笑声）
en:KS: No, not yet.(Laughter)
时间： 7:57
zh-cn:ZK：我还想说明此次演出由Target赞助。
en:ZK: I&#39;d just like to let you all know that this presentationhas been brought to you by Target.
时间： 8:00
zh-cn:KS： 再过一点点-非常好，很完美。现在，扎克，我们将要为大家带来未来的水枪战。（笑声）就在这儿，就在这个前面。好咧，如果你看这儿—不，不，好。好，请向观众说明你衣服的温度。请大声说。
en:KS: Little bit — that&#39;s perfect, just perfect.Now, Zach, we&#39;re going to demonstratea water gun fight from the future.(Laughter)So here, come on up to the front. All right, sonow if you&#39;ll see here — no, no, it&#39;s OK.So, describe to the audience the temperature of your shirt. Go ahead.
时间： 8:27
zh-cn:温度很低。
en:SJ: It&#39;s cold.
时间： 8:29
zh-cn:KS：温度很低的原因是因为这些水枪中装的不是水。是一种由3M公司研制的干态液体。绝对干净，无味，无色。你喝下这种液体也是安全的。（笑声）感觉温度低的原因是因为它蒸发的速度比水快25倍。（笑声）好，谢谢你上台来。（笑声）
en:KS: Now the reason it&#39;s cold is that&#39;s it&#39;s not actually water loadedinto these squirt guns — it&#39;s a dry liquid developed by 3M.It&#39;s perfectly clear, it&#39;s odorless, it&#39;s colorless.It&#39;s so safe you could drink this stuff.(Laughter)And the reason it feels cold is because it evaporates25 times faster than water.(Laughter)All right, well thanks for coming up.(Laughter)
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:ZK：等等，史蒂夫-你下台前，我们将水枪充满这种干态液体，这样休息时你可以射向你的朋友们。SJ：太棒了，谢谢你。
en:ZK: Wait, wait, Steven — before you go we filled this with the dry liquidso during the break you can shoot your friends.SJ: Excellent, thank you.
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:KS：谢谢你的合作。让我们为他鼓掌。（鼓掌）
en:KS: Thanks for coming up. Let&#39;s give him a big round of applause.(Applause)
时间： 9:06
zh-cn:这种干态液体有什么重要意义呢？这种液体的早期版本实际上用于克雷超级计算机。这种液体不可思议的特性是扎克可以站在台上向观众席扫射，不用担心弄坏电器，也不用担心弄湿衣服，也不用担心会毁坏书籍或计算机。因为它绝缘，所以它没有损害性。看这里，你可以将整个电路板浸入其中，却不会有任何损害。你可以通电散热。但是今天办公室中最广泛运用的是-在灌溉系统中作为灭火液体。再者，对人体绝对安全。它只扑灭火，而不会损坏任何东西。但是我们最自豪的点子是将其用于篮球赛中。半场时，淋在球员身上，给每个人降温，几分钟内就干了。也不会损害场地。
en:So what&#39;s the significance of this dry liquid?Early versions of the fluid were actually used on a Cray Supercomputer.Now, the unexpected thing about thisis that Zach could stand up on stage and drencha perfectly innocent member of the audience without any concernthat we&#39;d damage the electronics, that we&#39;d get him wet,that we&#39;d hurt the books or the computers. It works because it&#39;s non-conductive.So you can see here, you can immerse a whole circuit boardin this and it wouldn&#39;t cause any damage.You can circulate it to draw the heat away.But today it&#39;s most widely used in office buildings —in the sprinkler system — as a fire-suppression fluid.Again, it&#39;s perfectly safe for people. It puts out the fires, doesn&#39;t hurt anything.But our favorite idea for thiswas using it in a basketball game. So during halftime,it could rain down on the players, cool everyone down,and in a matter of minutes it would dry. Wouldn&#39;t hurt the court.
时间： 9:54
zh-cn:ZK：我们下一项技术来自于日本Sekisui化学品公司。他们研究开发中心的一位工程师正致力研究将塑料变得坚硬。他研究这个的时候发现了一件不可思议的东西。我们给大家看一段视频。
en:ZK: Our next technology comes to us from a company in Japancalled Sekisui Chemical. One of their R&amp;D engineerswas working on a way to make plastic stiffer.While he was doing this, he noticed an unexpected thing.We have a video to show you.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:KS： 看这里，它不会弹回来。这是他们做试验时没有想到的副作用。用技术上的话说叫“形状保持特性”。想象一下你用铝箔的时候。保持形状是金属的常性。你折起一片铝箔 ，它就保持那个状态。相反的是，一个塑料罐，你挤瘪，它又弹回来恢复原状。
en:KS: So you see there, it didn&#39;t bounce back. Now, this wasan unintended side effect of some experiments they were doing.It&#39;s technically called, &quot;shape-retaining property.&quot;Now, think about your interactions with aluminum foil.Shape-retaining is common in metal: you bend a piece of aluminum foil,and it holds its place. Contrast that witha plastic garbage can — and you can push in the sidesand it always bounces back.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:ZK：再举个例子，（有了这种塑料）你可以将手表绕着你的腕部而不用带扣。再讲个远点儿的，如果你将这些带子编在一起，像编竹篮那样，你就做个保持型状的，这样你可以罩块儿布，成为个野餐桌，这样即便有风也不会被刮走。我们下一项技术，是一种墨水。它本身的奇异特性不容易被观察到。所以我们准备了一段视频来展示如何应用在纸上。
en:ZK: For example, you could make a watch that wraps around your wrist,but doesn&#39;t use a buckle.Taking it a little further, if you wovethose strips together — kind of like a little basket — you could makea shape-retaining sheet, and then you could embed it in a cloth:so you could make a picnic sheet that wraps around the table,so that way on a windy day it wouldn&#39;t blow away.For our next technology, it&#39;s hard to observethe unexpected property by itself, because it&#39;s an ink.So, we&#39;ve prepared a video to show it applied to paper.
时间：11:26
zh-cn:KS：随着纸张的弯曲，墨水的电阻也随之改变。就算用最简易的电表，你也能测出纸张弯曲的程度。好，想想这项技术的潜力，想想它能运用在的领域。名片，早餐包装盒的背面，旗牌游戏。一切能用到墨水的地方都能运用这项技术。
en:KS: As this paper is bending, the resistance of the ink changes.So with simple electronics, you can detect how much the page is being bent.Now, to think about the potential for this,think of all the places ink is supplied: on business cards,on the back of cereal boxes, board games. Any place you use ink,you could change the way you interact with it.
时间：11:45
zh-cn:ZK：这项技术我最喜欢的点子是用于印书。这可以完全改变你跟书籍的交流形式。你看在页边喝页眉都有黑线。你翻页时，根据书页的弯曲程度，书本实际上能探测到你在读哪一页。此外，如果你折页脚，你还能编辑将书本上的笔迹发邮件给你。
en:ZK: So my favorite idea for this is to apply the ink to a book.This could totally change the way that you interface with paper.You see the dark line on the side and the top. As you turn the pagesof the book, the book can actually detect what page you&#39;re on,based on the curvature of the pages.In addition, if you were to fold in one of the corners, then you could programthe book to actually email you the text on the page for your notes.
时间：12:09
zh-cn:KS：我们最后一项技术，我们再次同罗曼和他的团队在Directors Bureau一起制作了这段广告，从未来的应用来解释这个如何工作。
en:KS: For our last technology, we worked again with Roman and his teamat the Directors Bureau to develop a commercial from the futureto explain how it works.
时间：12:25
zh-cn:（视频）：哇，好香呀。你是谁？我是新的牛奶。我原先闻起来跟你一样。新鲜看的见的来自于新奶场的牛奶。随着牛奶的减少，包装盒的颜色也随之改变。不要让牛奶毁了你的早晨哦。
en:Old Milk Carton: Oh yeah, it smells good.Who are you?New Milk Carton: I&#39;m New Milk.OMC: I used to smell like you.Narrator: Fresh Watch, from Inventables Dairy Farms.Packaging that changes color when your milk&#39;s gone off.Don&#39;t let milk spoil your morning.
时间：12:47
zh-cn:ZK：现在这项技术由这两位教授-来自于伊利诺伊大学的肯 萨斯里克和尼尔拉科。
en:ZK: Now, this technology was developed by these two guys:Professor Ken Suslick and Neil Rakow, of the University of Illinois.
时间：12:53
zh-cn:KS：它工作的方式是：一个彩色染料的矩阵。这些染料随着气味的改变而改变颜色。香草的味道可能让左边的四个圆点变成褐色，右边的变成黄色，这样颜色矩阵能依据不同的香味变化成千上万的颜色组合。就像刚才的牛奶广告一样，如果你知道你想测到什么样的香味，它们就可以组合出特别针对这种香味的颜料。
en:KS: Now the way it works: there&#39;s a matrix of color dyes.And these dyes change color in response to odors.So the smell of vanilla, that might change the four on the left to brownand the one on the right to yellow. This matrix can producethousands of different color combinations to represent thousands of different smells.But like in the milk commercial, if you know what odor you want to detect,then they can formulate a specific dye to detect just that odor.
时间：13:16
zh-cn:ZK：对。这始于我跟萨斯里克教授的一段谈话，他向我解释了其中的原理。检测变质的食物并不是它的真正意义所在。他的公司实际上对全国消防员作了一项调研，用于了解它们在处理紧急情况时如何检测空气？他稍带诙谐地解释说，消防员一次又一次地说，他们会赶到犯罪现场。他们会检查四周。如果没有警察死亡，那就万事大吉。（笑声）这是个真实的故事。 他们用警察当哨兵。（笑声）话说回来，他们决定你可以发明一种比人类嗅觉更敏感的装置，消防员也更安全。此外，他将他的公司从大学分离出来，成立了一家叫ChemSensing从事医疗器械的公司，病人们蜂拥而至。随着检测到某些细菌、病毒甚至肺癌的特别味道，染料颜色会跟着改变，而他们就用软件分析这些结果。这从根本上改进了医生诊断病人的方式。目前，他们用试错的方法，但这却能精确地显示你得了什么病。
en:ZK: Right. It was that that started a conversation with Professor Suslick and myself,and he was explaining to me the things that this is making possible,beyond just detecting spoiled food. It&#39;s really where the significance of it lies.His company actually did a survey of firemen all across the country to try to learn,how are they currently testing the air when they respond to an emergency scene?And he kind of comically explained thattime after time, what the firemen would say is:they would rush to the scene of the crime; they would look around;if there were no dead policemen, it was OK to go.(Laughter)I mean, this is a true story. They&#39;re using policemen as canaries.(Laughter)But more seriously, they determined that you could developa device that can smell better than the humans,and say if it&#39;s safe for the firemen.In addition, he&#39;s spun off a company from the University called ChemSensing,where they&#39;re working on medical equipment.So, a patient can come in and actually blow into their device.By detecting the odor of particular bacteria, or viruses,or even lung cancer, the dots will change and they can usesoftware to analyze the results.This can radically improve the way that doctors diagnose patients.Currently, they&#39;re using a method of trial and error,but this could tell you precisely what disease you have.
时间：14:32
zh-cn:KS：这就是我们今天为你带来的六种技术，我希望你能感到为什么我们觉得这些技术不可思议。因为这六种技术中的每一种，都改变了我们对这个世界上可能性的认识。没看这个之前，我们想象不到一个10英尺长的棍子能装在你的口袋里。我们也想象不到像墨水一样便宜的东西能感到纸张弯曲的程度。这里每一项技术。我们致力于发现更多的奇迹。
en:KS: So that was the six we had for you today, but I hope you&#39;re starting to seewhy we find these things so fascinating.Because every one of these six changed our understandingof what was possible in the world. Prior to seeing this,we would have assumed: a 10-foot pole couldn&#39;t fit in your pocket;something as inexpensive as ink couldn&#39;t sense the way paper is being bent;every one of these things — and we&#39;re constantly trying to find more.
时间：14:53
zh-cn:ZK：这是基斯和我真正感兴趣做的事情。我想你们现在觉得这很明显，但就在昨天，我才想起是为什么。当我和斯蒂夫在楼下的电梯口交谈时，他告诉我克里斯给他那个小盒子，其中一件物品是疏水沙-就是不会变湿的沙子。他同他的儿子玩这种沙子。他儿子就像着迷了一样，他将沙子泡在水里，再拿出来，沙子还是干的。几周后，他说，他儿子玩他妈妈剪下的头发，他发现头发上有几滴水。他拿着头发，找到史蒂夫说“看，一条疏水性的线。”（笑声）听到这个故事，我什么都明白了。非常谢谢大家。
en:ZK: This is something that Keith and I really enjoy doing.I&#39;m sure it&#39;s obvious to you now, but it was actually yesterdaythat I was reminded of why. I was having a conversationwith Steve Jurvetson, over downstairs by the escalators,and he was telling me that when Chris sent out that little box,one of the items in it was the hydrophobic sand —the sand that doesn&#39;t get wet. He said that he was playing with it with his son.And you know, his son was mesmerized,because he would dunk it in the water, he would take it outand it was bone dry. A few weeks later, he said that his sonwas playing with a lock of his mother&#39;s hair, and he noticedthat there were some drops of water on the hair.And he took the thing and he looked up to Steve and he said,&quot;Look, hydrophobic string.&quot;(Laughter)I mean, after hearing that story — that really summed it up for me.Thank you very much.
时间：15:37
zh-cn:KS：谢谢大家。（鼓掌）
en:KS: Thank you.(Applause)
