时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这是詹姆斯·瑞森。他是纽约时报的记者因获得普利策奖被大家所熟知。在大家还没听说过爱德华·斯诺登的时候，瑞森因为写了一本揭露美国国家安全局非法窃听美国民众通话的书而备受瞩目。但是在那本书的另一章节可能有着更深远的影响。那里他描述了美国情报部门的一次灾难性的行动，上面说中情局把核弹的设计图交给了伊朗。如果你觉得太疯狂你可以去读一下。真是难以置信。
en:So this is James Risen.You may know him as thePulitzer Prize-winning reporterfor The New York Times.Long before anybody knewEdward Snowden&#39;s name,Risen wrote a book in whichhe famously exposedthat the NSA was illegally wiretappingthe phone calls of Americans.But it&#39;s another chapter in that bookthat may have an even more lasting impact.In it, he describes a catastrophicUS intelligence operationin which the CIA quite literallyhanded over blueprintsof a nuclear bomb to Iran.If that sounds crazy, go read it.It&#39;s an incredible story.
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:谁不喜欢那一章？美国政府。将近十年之后，瑞森成为了美国政府调查的主要人物这次调查中检查方要求他对于他所谓的消息来源做不利的证明。他逐渐被推到了美国政府起诉和监视新闻举报一系列行动的风口浪尖上。
en:But you know who didn&#39;t like that chapter?The US government.For nearly a decade afterwards,Risen was the subjectof a US government investigationin which prosecutors demandedthat he testifyagainst one of his alleged sources.And along the way, he became the facefor the US government&#39;s recent patternof prosecuting whistleblowersand spying on journalists.
时间： 1:09
zh-cn:在第一修正案下为了公众利益新闻界有权报道各种秘密的消息但是如果媒体无法收集消息无法保护自己勇敢的线人就没有办法行使自己的权利。所以当政府人员找上门的时候瑞森像以前很多勇敢的记者一样他拒绝提供任何信息。他说他宁愿坐牢。2007年到2015年，瑞森在监视下开始了联邦监狱的生活。
en:You see, under the First Amendment,the press has the right to publishsecret information in the public interest.But it&#39;s impossible to exercise that rightif the media can&#39;t also gather that newsand protect the identitiesof the brave men and womenwho get it to them.So when the government came knocking,Risen did what many brave reportershave done before him:he refusedand said he&#39;d rather go to jail.So from 2007 to 2015,Risen lived under the specterof going to federal prison.
时间： 1:39
zh-cn:就在审判前几天奇怪的事情发生了。突然在坚持瑞森是本案关键几年之后，政府放弃了对瑞森的所有的要求。实际上在电子监控的年代，记者和线人无处可逃。与其一次次要求瑞森举证又被一次次拒绝，政府选择用他的电子记录来做不利证明。在完全机密且未经同意的情况下，检查方拿到了瑞森的电话记录邮箱记录和财产及银行信息，他的信用记录，甚至他所乘坐的航班记录列表。用上述的信息他们确认杰弗里·斯特林就是瑞森的消息来源也是中情局的告发者。
en:That is, until just days before the trial,when a curious thing happened.Suddenly, after years of claimingit was vital to their case,the government dropped their demandsto Risen altogether.It turns out, in the ageof electronic surveillance,there are very few placesreporters and sources can hide.And instead of trying and failingto have Risen testify,they could have his digital trailtestify against him instead.So completely in secretand without his consent,prosecutors got Risen&#39;s phone records.They got his email records,his financial and banking information,his credit reports,even travel records with a listof flights he had taken.And it was among this information thatthey used to convict Jeffrey Sterling,Risen&#39;s alleged sourceand CIA whistleblower.
时间： 2:29
zh-cn:很遗憾，这样的事情有很多。奥巴马总统承诺保护告发者，而相反地， 他的司法部门逮捕的告发者比之前的总统加起来还多。这就是一个巨大的问题，尤其当政府对于保护他们的秘密如此重视的时候。自9.11之后，基本上所有关于国家安全的重大新闻都是由线人提供给记者的。所以因为政府的监视遍布所有人，我们很难看到新闻界行使第一修正案赋予他们的权利。
en:Sadly, this is only one case of many.President Obama ran on a promiseto protect whistleblowers,and instead, his Justice Departmenthas prosecuted morethan all other administrations combined.Now, you can see how thiscould be a problem,especially because the governmentconsiders so much of what it does secret.Since 9/11, virtually every importantstory about national securityhas been the result of a whistleblowercoming to a journalist.So we risk seeing the pressunable to do their jobthat the First Amendmentis supposed to protectbecause of the government&#39;sexpanded ability to spy on everyone.
时间： 3:06
zh-cn:不过正如科技让政府监视记者们的一举一动一样，新闻界也可以利用科技更好地保护他们的线人。而且保护可以从第一次的对话开始，而不是庭审在站上证人席的时候。现在很多通信软件是瑞森写他的书时所没有的，而且反监视能力比常规的邮件和电话好很多。比如有一款叫做SecureDrop的软件，这是一款开源的检举揭发系统由亚伦·斯沃茨，一位已故的互联网大师创造。在我所工作的地方新闻自由基金会开发使用。不采取发邮件的方式你可以去某个新闻机构的网站，比如这里的华盛顿邮报。在这里你可以上传文档或发送信息就想用其他方式传递信息一样。消息会被加密存放在服务器中只有新闻机构的人可以查看。所以政府再也无法秘密追踪这些信息，就算追踪到了信息也不知道最初来自哪里。
en:But just as technology has allowedthe governmentto circumvent reporters&#39; rights,the press can also use technologyto protect their sourceseven better than before.And they can start from the momentthey begin speaking with them,rather than on the witness standafter the fact.Communications software now existsthat wasn&#39;t availablewhen Risen was writing his book,and is much more surveillance-resistantthan regular emails or phone calls.For example, one such tool is SecureDrop,an open-source whistleblowersubmission systemthat was originally created by the lateInternet luminary Aaron Swartz,and is now developedat the non-profit where I work,Freedom of the Press Foundation.Instead of sending an email,you go to a news organization&#39;s website,like this one here on The Washington Post.From there, you can upload a documentor send informationmuch like you wouldon any other contact form.It&#39;ll then be encryptedand stored on a serverthat only the news organizationhas access to.So the government can no longersecretly demand the information,and much of the informationthey would demandwouldn&#39;t be available in the first place.
时间： 4:15
zh-cn:SecureDrop只是21世纪保护新闻自由的一块小小的拼图。不过世界各地的政府也无时无刻不在开发新的监视技术让我们更加危险。所以让我们努力前行不仅仅保护高科技的告发者像斯诺登一样有自己的渠道揭露恶行的告发者也要保护那些提醒我们医院过于拥挤的揭发退伍老兵医疗卫生问题的告发者保护那些对弗林特市污水敲响警钟的环卫工人保护那些让我们警惕下一次金融危机的华尔街线人。所以，这些工具不是为了保护那些勇敢的敢于揭露罪行的线人们而是为了保护宪法下所有人应有的权利。
en:SecureDrop, though, is reallyonly a small part of the puzzlefor protecting press freedomin the 21st century.Unfortunately, governmentsall over the worldare constantly developingnew spying techniquesthat put us all at risk.And it&#39;s up to us going forwardto make surethat it&#39;s not justthe tech-savvy whistleblowers,like Edward Snowden, who havean avenue for exposing wrongdoing.It&#39;s just as vital that we protect thenext veteran&#39;s health care whistlebloweralerting us to overcrowded hospitals,or the next environmental workersounding the alarmabout Flint&#39;s dirty water,or a Wall Street insiderwarning us of the next financial crisis.After all, these tools weren&#39;t just builtto help the brave men and womenwho expose crimes,but are meant to protectall of our rights under the Constitution.
时间： 5:06
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间： 5:07
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
