时间： 0:11
zh-cn:Penelope Jagessar Chaffer:我要问声这里是否有医生。不问了，开个玩笑。很有趣，因为六年前当我怀第一个宝宝的时候我发现最常用的防腐剂用于婴儿制品进入人体后酷似雌性激素。事实上，产品中的化学合成物很容易透过皮肤进入人体。并且，这些防腐剂已经在乳腺癌肿瘤中发现。
en:Penelope Jagessar Chaffer: I was going to ask if there&#39;s a doctor in the house.No, I&#39;m just joking.It&#39;s interesting, because it was six years agowhen I was pregnant with my first childthat I discoveredthat the most commonly used preservativein baby care productsmimics estrogenwhen it gets into the human body.Now it&#39;s very easy actuallyto get a chemical compound from productsinto the human body through the skin.And these preservatives had been foundin breast cancer tumors.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:这就是我开始拍摄《中毒宝宝》的起因。并且，不用花多少时间就会发现有关这个问题的令人震惊的统计数字。之一就是你和我体内都带有30至5万种化学制品而我们的祖父母却没有的。其中很多的化学成分现在联系到工业化国家中常见的飞速发展的慢性儿童疾病。我给大家看些数据。举个例子，在英国，儿童白血病的发病率在一代人中已提高了20%。在美国，儿童癌症发病率的增长数字也非常相似在加拿大，有十分之一的儿童患有哮喘。这是四倍的增长率。
en:That was the start of my journeyto make this film, &quot;Toxic Baby.&quot;And it doesn&#39;t take much timeto discover some really astonishing statisticswith this issue.One is that you and I all havebetween 30 to 50,000 chemicalsin our bodiesthat our grandparents didn&#39;t have.And many of these chemicalsare now linked to the skyrocketing incidentsof chronic childhood diseasethat we&#39;re seeing across industrialized nations.I&#39;ll show you some statistics.So for example, in the United Kingdom,the incidence of childhood leukemiahas risen by 20 percent just in a generation.Very similar statistic for childhood cancer in the U.S.In Canada, we&#39;re now looking at one in 10 Canadian children with asthma.That&#39;s a four-fold increase.
时间： 1:29
zh-cn:同样，类似的事情在世界各地发生着。在美国，或许最令人震惊的数据是自闭症，自闭症障碍和其他学习障碍600％的发病增长率。同样，我们看到这个趋势在横扫欧洲和北美。在欧洲某些地区，我们看到有四倍增长的一些生殖器先天缺陷案例。有趣的是，其中一种的先天缺陷的案例在美国已经增长了200%。同样正在真正激增的还有慢性儿童疾病以及其他疾病譬如肥胖，青少年糖尿病，早熟。
en:Again, similar story around the world.In the United States,probably the most astonishing statisticis a 600 percent increasein autism and autistic spectrum disordersand other learning disabilities.Again, we&#39;re seeing that trendacross Europe, across North America.And in Europe,there&#39;s certain parts of Europe,where we&#39;re seeing a four-fold increasein certain genital birth defects.Interestingly, one of those birth defectshas seen a 200 percent increase in the U.S.So a real skyrocketingof chronic childhood diseasethat includes other thingslike obesity and juvenile diabetes,premature puberty.
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:我感到很有趣的是，当我寻找一位能够真正和我讨论并且对听众们谈论这些事的人并且他可能是这世上很重要的一个能讨论婴儿体内的毒性的人却是个青蛙专家。
en:So it&#39;s interesting for me,when I&#39;m looking for someone who can really talk to meand talk to an audience about these things,that probably one of the most important people in the worldwho can discuss toxicity in babiesis expert in frogs.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:27
zh-cn:Tyrone Hayes：我也很吃惊我会谈论杀虫剂，我会谈论公共健康，因为我从来没想过我会做什么有用的事。（笑）青蛙。其实，我也吃惊会渉入杀虫剂这个问题。当时，世上最大的化学制品公司来问我，是否能评估阿特拉津对两栖动物或者说我的青蛙的影响。结果呢，原来阿特拉津是世上最大的化学制品公司的最畅销产品。它含量最高的杂质于地下水，饮用水和雨水。在2003年，在我的研究之后，阿特拉津被欧盟禁止了。但是在同一年，美国环保署重新注册了这个化合物。
en:Tyrone Hayes: It was a surprise to me as wellthat I would be talking about pesticides,that I&#39;d be talking about public health,because, in fact, I never thought I would do anything useful.(Laughter)Frogs.In fact, my involvement in the whole pesticide issuewas sort of a surprise as wellwhen I was approached by the largest chemical company in the worldand they asked me if I would evaluatehow atrazine affected amphibians, or my frogs.It turns out, atrazine is the largest selling productfor the largest chemical company in the world.It&#39;s the number one contaminantof groundwater, drinking water, rain water.In 2003, after my studies, it was banned in the European Union,but in that same year,the United States EPA re-registered the compound.
时间： 3:16
zh-cn:我们的发现令我们小吃一惊当我们把青蛙暴露在很低水平的阿特拉津中时，虽然10亿当中只有0.1部分，创造出了长成这个样子的动物。动物的生殖腺解剖显示出它有两个睾丸，两个卵巢，外加一个大的睾丸，几个卵巢，这都不正常。（笑）即使是对两栖动物来说。另外一些例子里，比如一种叫北美豹蚊蛙的物种在暴露于阿特拉津后雄性的睾丸竟然长有卵子。大家可以看到的这些大个的充满黄的卵子布满雄性睾丸的外表。我太太告诉我，当然Penelope也会说，没有比生孩子更痛的事。生孩子我永远不可能体验，所以我不会争辩这个。但我会猜想如果我睾丸里有一打的鸡蛋的话，这疼痛可能会排在前五个最疼痛的经历里面。
en:We were a bit surprised when we found outthat when we exposed frogsto very low levels of atrazine — 0.1 parts per billion —that it produced animals that look like this.These are the dissected gonads of an animalthat has two testes, two ovaries,another large testis, more ovaries,which is not normal ...(Laughter)even for amphibians.In some cases, another species like the North American Leopard Frogshowed that males exposed to atrazine grew eggs in their testes.And you can see these large, yolked-up eggsbursting through the surface of this male&#39;s testes.Now my wife tells me, and I&#39;m sure Penelope can as well,that there&#39;s nothing more painful than childbirth —which that I&#39;ll never experience, I can&#39;t really argue that —but I would guess that a dozen chicken eggs in my testiclewould probably be somewhere in the top five.
时间： 4:04
zh-cn:（笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:在我们发表的近期研究，我们展示了当一些动物暴露在阿特拉津下的时候，一些雄性的成长后会变成完全的雌性。所以，有些配偶关系实际上是两兄弟的组合。并不只是这些基因雄性和其他雄性交配，他们实际上还有能力产卵，尽管他们是基因雄性。我们所提议的我们也得到了支持，就是阿特拉津严重危害而导致荷尔蒙的不平衡。通常睾丸应该产出雄性激素，就是雄性荷尔蒙。但是阿特拉津所做的就是它会开启一种酶，叫芳香化酶，它会把雄性激素转化成雌性激素。结果就是，这些被暴露过的雄性就失去了他们的雄性激素，他们是被化学阉制了，因为他们不断制造雌性激素，他们就被女性化了。
en:In recent studies that we&#39;ve published,we&#39;ve shown that some of these animals when they&#39;re exposed to atrazine,some of the males grow upand completely become females.So these are actually two brothers consummating a relationship.And not only do these genetic males mate with other males,they actually have the capacity to lay eggseven though they&#39;re genetic males.What we proposed,and what we&#39;ve now generated support for,is that what atrazine is doingis wreaking havoc causing a hormone imbalance.Normally the testes should make testosterone,the male hormone.But what atrazine does is it turns on an enzyme,the machinery if you will, aromatase,that converts testosterone into estrogen.And as a result, these exposed maleslose their testosterone, they&#39;re chemically castrated,and they&#39;re subsequently feminizedbecause now they&#39;re making the female hormone.
时间： 4:53
zh-cn:现在，这就引到了跟人有关的话题。事实证明女性中最多的癌症-乳腺癌，就是受控于雌性激素和芳香化酶。当你乳房里有了一个癌细胞，芳香化酶就把雄性激素转化成雌性激素，而那个雌性激素又启动或促进癌症的成长，因此它就形成肿块并扩散。实际上，芳香化酶在乳腺癌上起很关键的作用。最新的乳腺癌的治疗法，就是用一种叫来曲唑的化学制品，来阻止芳香化酶，阻止雌激素，所以如果你产生了变异的细胞，它不会长成肿瘤。
en:Now this is what brought me to the human-related issues.Because it turns outthat the number one cancer in women, breast cancer,is regulated by estrogen and by this enzyme aromatase.So when you develop a cancerous cell in your breast,aromatase converts androgens into estrogens,and that estrogen turns on or promotesthe growth of that cancerso that it turns into a tumor and spreads.In fact, this aromatase is so important in breast cancerthat the latest treatment for breast canceris a chemical called letrozole,which blocks aromatase, blocks estrogen,so that if you developed a mutated cell, it doesn&#39;t grow into a tumor.
时间： 5:30
zh-cn:现在，有趣的是，我们仍然在用八千万镑的阿特拉津，饮用水中第一多的杂质，起着相反的作用-启动芳香化酶，增加雌性激素，在老鼠身上长肿瘤在人身上引发的就是肿瘤，乳腺癌。事实上，更有趣的是，销售八千万镑的阿特拉津的公司——乳腺癌的推广者，现在又在卖阻滞剂，同一家公司。我感到有趣的是，我们对付疾病的方法不是预防暴露于引发疾病的化学制品而是简单地把更多的化学制品投入到环境里。
en:Now what&#39;s interesting is, of course,that we&#39;re still using 80 million pounds of atrazine,the number one contaminant in drinking water, that does the opposite —turns on aromatase, increases estrogenand promotes tumors in ratsand is associated with tumors, breast cancer, in humans.What&#39;s interesting is, in fact,the same company that sold us 80 million pounds of atrazine,the breast cancer promoter,now sells us the blocker — the exact same company.And so I find it interestingthat instead of treating this diseaseby preventing exposure to the chemicals that promote it,we simply respondby putting more chemicals into the environment.
时间： 6:07
zh-cn:PJC：说到雌性激素，Tyrone在影片里提到的另一种叫做双酚A的化合物，即BPA，最近也有报道。它是一种增塑剂。这种化合物在聚碳酸脂塑料里可见，婴儿奶瓶就是用这种塑料制作的。BPA的有趣之处是，它是一种很有效的雌激素，曾被考虑用于人造雌激素来做激素放置疗法。已经有过很多很多很多的研究表明BPA从婴儿奶瓶渗到婴儿食品，渗进奶水所以也渗进到宝宝体内。所以，我们在给我们的宝宝们，我们的新生儿们，我们的婴儿们服用人造雌性激素。
en:PJC: So speaking of estrogen,one of the other compounds that Tyrone talks about in the filmis something called bisphenol A, BPA,which has been in the news recently.It&#39;s a plasticizer.It&#39;s a compound that&#39;s found in polycarbonate plastic,which is what baby bottles are made out of.And what&#39;s interesting about BPAis that it&#39;s such a potent estrogenthat it was actually once considered for useas a synthetic estrogen in hormone placement therapy.And there have been many, many, many studies that have shownthat BPA leaches from babies&#39; bottlesinto the formula, into the milk,and therefore into the babies.So we&#39;re dosing our babies,our newborns, our infants,with a synthetic estrogen.
时间： 6:51
zh-cn:大约两周前，欧洲联盟通过一则法律禁止使用BPA在婴儿奶瓶和吸管杯中。对那些不是父母的说一声吸管杯就是宝宝们停止使用奶瓶的后的塑料替代物。但，也就是在两周前，美国参议院竟拒绝对禁止婴儿奶瓶和吸管杯使用BPA之事展开辩论。这也让你们认识到是父母的义务去看待这件事，安排和监督他们自己的生活，这是很惊人的。
en:Now two weeks ago or so,the European Union passed a lawbanning the use of BPAin babies&#39; bottles and sippy cups.And for those of you who are not parents,sippy cups are those little plastic thingsthat your child graduates to after using bottles.But just two weeks before that,the U.S. Senate refused to even debatethe banning of BPAin babies&#39; bottles and sippy cups.So it really makes you realizethe onus on parentsto have to look at this and regulate this and police thisin their own livesand how astonishing that is.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:（录像）PJC：很多的婴儿奶瓶已经证实有双酚A的渗漏，也表明有时是父母的关注站在化学制品和我们孩子之间。婴儿奶瓶的情形证明我们能够防止不必要的接触。可是，如果我们做父母的不知道，那我们就让孩子们照料他们自己去了。
en:(Video) PJC: With many plastic baby bottlesnow proven to leak the chemical bisphenol A,it really shows how sometimesit is only a parent&#39;s awarenessthat stands between chemicals and our children.The baby bottle scenario provesthat we can prevent unnecessary exposure.However, if we parents are unaware,we are leaving our childrento fend for themselves.
时间： 7:59
zh-cn:TH：Penelop说的再真实不过了。你们可能还有不知道的，我们是在第六位大规模绝种之中。科学们都赞成。我们地球上物种的流失比恐龙消失还快最快的就是两栖类。所有两栖动物的80%受到威胁并在减少。我相信，许多的科学家们也相信杀虫剂是减少的主要原因。在一定程度上，两栖动物是很好的指标且更敏感，因为他们对水中的污染物没有任何保护-没有蛋壳，没有隔膜也没有胎盘。事实上，我们的发明，—我们意思是我们哺乳动物-我们的大发明之一就是胎盘。但我们也是从水中的有机体而来的。
en:TH: And what Penelope says hereis even more true.For those of you who don&#39;t know, we&#39;re in the middle of the sixth mass extinction.Scientists agree now.We are losing species from the Earthfaster than the dinosaurs disappeared,and leading that loss are amphibians.80 percent of all amphibiansare threatened and in come decline.And I believe, many scientists believethat pesticides are an important part of that decline.In part, amphibians are good indicators and more sensitivebecause they don&#39;t have protection from contaminants in the water —no eggshells, no membranesand no placenta.In fact, our invention — by &quot;our&quot; I mean we mammals —one of our big inventions was the placenta.But we also start out as aquatic organisms.
时间： 8:40
zh-cn:但事实证明这个古老的结构-把我们从其他动物分开的结构，胎盘－并不能进化或快速适应我们生产新化学制品的速度－一个前所未有的速度。老鼠身上再次用过阿特拉津的研究证据显示荷尔蒙不平衡的阿特拉津，会导致流产。因为维护怀孕是依靠荷尔蒙。
en:But it turns out that this ancient structurethat separates us from other animals, the placenta,cannot evolve or adapt fast enoughbecause of the rate that we&#39;re generating new chemicalsthat it&#39;s never seen before.The evidence of that is that studies in rats, again with atrazine,show that the hormone imbalance atrazine generates causes abortion.Because maintaining a pregnancy is dependent on hormones.
时间： 9:00
zh-cn:当然老鼠不会流产，阿特拉津引起幼崽前列腺疾病所以说小老鼠一出生就患有老年病。对那些不流产的，阿特拉津会导致不可恢复的乳房受损在子宫内就遭到阿特拉津接触的女儿们，她们的乳房不可能正常发育。结果是，这些老鼠成长时，他们的幼崽会经历成长发育缓慢。因为她们没有足够的奶水来喂养幼崽。
en:Of those rats that don&#39;t abort,atrazine causes prostate diseasein the pups so the sonsare born with an old man&#39;s disease.Of those that don&#39;t abort,atrazine causes impaired mammary, or breast, developmentin the exposed daughters in utero,so that their breast don&#39;t develop properly.And as a result, when those rats grow up,their pups experience retarded growth and developmentbecause they can&#39;t make enough milk to nourish their pups.
时间： 9:24
zh-cn:你们看到的最下面的小老鼠受的影响源自它的祖母被暴露于阿特拉津。受这些化学制品影响的的生命，一代代，一年年，成年累月，可以说我们今天会影响到我们孙子的孙子那一代人的健康通过现在投入到环境里的东西。
en:So the pup you see on the bottom is affected by atrazinethat its grandmother was exposed to.And given the life of many of these chemicals,generations, years, dozens of years,that means that we right noware affecting the healthof our grandchildren&#39;s grandchildrenby things that we&#39;re putting into the environment today.
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:这并不只是哲理性的，已经众所周知，化学制品，诸如己烯雌酚，雌激素，PCBs（多氯联苯），DDT（滴滴涕）等能够穿过胎盘有效地决定子宫内胎儿的乳腺癌的发展以及肥胖和糖尿病可能性。除此之外，婴儿出生后，我们哺乳动物的另一个独特的发明是我们要喂养出世的宝宝。我们都已知道化学制品像DDT，DES（己烯雌酚）和阿特拉津都能透过容器进入奶水，在宝宝出生后还能影响他们。
en:And this is not just philosophical, it&#39;s already known,that chemicals like diethylstilbestrol and estrogen,PCBs, DDTcross the placentaand effectively determinethe likelihood of developing breast cancerand obesity and diabetesalready when the baby&#39;s in the womb.In addition to that, after the baby&#39;s born,our other unique invention as mammalsis that we nourish our offspring after they&#39;re born.We already know that chemicalslike DDT and DES and atrazinecan also pass over into milk,again, affecting our babieseven after their born.
时间：10:17
zh-cn:PJC：所以当Tyrone告诉我，胎盘是个古老的器官，我就想怎么样来展示它呢？如何来表现呢？拍电影时有趣的是，你一直在想用视觉来展示无法视觉化的科学。我只得借助一点艺术特权。
en:PJC: So when Tyrone tells methat the placenta is an ancient organ,I&#39;m thinking, how do I demonstrate that?How do you show that?And it&#39;s interesting when you make a film like this,because you&#39;re stuck trying to visualize sciencethat there&#39;s no visualization for.And I have to take a little bit of artistic license.
时间：10:41
zh-cn:（视频）（响铃）老者：这里是胎盘指挥部。胎盘指挥部是什么？什么？（打呼声）（按喇叭声）全，全，全—什么？全氟辛酸。啊呀。没听说过。PJC：我在开始拍这部影片的时候也没听说过。当你意识到化学成分会穿过胎盘进入你未出世的婴孩，这让我开始思考，我的胎儿要对我说什么？当我们未出世的孩子们每天都被暴露于化学品之中，他们会对我们说什么？
en:(Video) (Ringing)Old man: Placenta control.What is it?Oh what?(Snoring)(Honk)Puffuffuff, what?Perflourooctanoic acid.Blimey.Never heard of it.PJC: And neither had I actuallybefore I started making this film.And so when you realize that chemicals can pass the placentaand go into your unborn child,it made me start to think,what would my fetus say to me?What would our unborn children say to uswhen they have an exposurethat&#39;s happening everyday, day after day?
时间：11:45
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：12:03
zh-cn:（视频）小孩：今天，我吃了些辛基酚，吃了些人造麝香和一些双酚A。救救我！
en:(Video) Child: Today,I had some octyphenols,some artificial musksand some bisphenol A.Help me.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:PJV：我们女人是站在前沿，知道这点有很深的意义。这是我们的问题，因为我们有毕生时间收集了这些化合物最终把它们倒给我们为未出世的孩子。我们实际上在污染我们的孩子。这就是一年前发生在我身上的事。我知道怀孕后做的第一次扫描就显示我的宝宝有先天性缺陷，是与子宫里的含雌性激素的化学成分有关。第二次的扫描宝宝没有心跳。
en:PJC: It&#39;s a very profound notionto know that we as womenare at the vanguard of this.This is our issue,because we collect these compounds our entire lifeand then we end up dumping it and dumping theminto our unborn children.We are in effectpolluting our children.And this was something that was really brought home to me a year agowhen I found out I was pregnantand the first scan revealedthat my baby had a birth defectassociated with exposureto estrogenic chemicals in the womband the second scanrevealed no heartbeat.
时间：13:03
zh-cn:我的孩子的死，我宝宝的死亡真正引起我要拍这部电影的共鸣。有时很奇怪，本来不在计划之中的传播者却成了故事的一部分。当Tyrone讲胎儿被困在受污染的环境里，这个就是我的被污染了环境。这是我的中了毒的宝宝。这件事很深刻和令人伤心的但令人吃惊的是因为我们很多人还不知道。
en:So my child&#39;s death, my baby&#39;s death,really brought home the resonance of what I was trying to make in this film.And it&#39;s sometimes a weird placewhen the communicator becomes part of the story,which is not what you originally intend.And so when Tyrone talks aboutthe fetus being trapped in a contaminated environment,this is my contaminated environment.This is my toxic baby.And that&#39;s somethingthat&#39;s just profound and sad,but astonishingbecause so many of us don&#39;t actually know this.
时间：13:42
zh-cn:TH：能够来到TEDwomen对我是很兴奋和合适的一件事，昨天晚餐时有一位总结的很好，他说：转身对你的邻座说“当革命开始时，我们挺你。”事实是，女士们，在这个问题上我们已经支持了很久。从Rachel Carson（雷切尔·卡森）的《安静的春天》开始，到Theo Colborn（泰奥·柯尔朋） 的《失窃的未来》，♫和Sandra Steingraber（桑德拉·斯坦格雷伯）的《下游生活》和《相信》。这也许是我们与下一代人的连系就像13年前我太太和我漂亮的女儿，也许这种连接使更多的妇女活动家投身到这个特殊的领域。
en:TH: One of this things that&#39;s exciting and appropriatefor me to be here at TEDWomenis that, well, I think it was summed up best last night at dinnerwhen someone said, &quot;Turn to the man at your table and tell them,&#39;When the revolution starts, we&#39;ve got your back.&#39;&quot;The truth is, women,you&#39;ve had our back on this issue for a very long time,starting with Rachel Carson&#39;s &quot;Silent Spring&quot;to Theo Colborn&#39;s &quot;Our Stolen Future&quot;to Sandra Steingraber&#39;s books&quot;Living Downstream&quot; and &quot;Having Faith.&quot;And perhaps it&#39;s the connection to our next generation —like my wife and my beautiful daughter here about 13 years ago —perhaps it&#39;s that connectionthat makes women activistsin this particular area.
时间：14:21
zh-cn:对这里的男士，我想说并不只是妇女和孩子身处危险。被暴露在阿特拉津的青蛙，睾丸上布满洞和空隙，由于荷尔蒙不平衡，睾丸本来应该产生精子的，这里的睾丸小管却空空，所以生育力跌落到50%。并不只是两栖动物，在欧洲我们看到鱼类，在南美我们也发现爬行类和老鼠都存在睾丸穿孔，无精子的情况。当然，我们不在人身上做试验。但巧的是，我的同事发现精子数量和质量都低下的男士的尿样里含有较高的阿特拉津。
en:But for the men here, I want to sayit&#39;s not just women and children that are at risk.And the frogs that are exposed to atrazine,the testes are full of holes and spaces,because the hormone imbalance,instead of allowing sperm to be generated,such as in the testis here,the testicular tubules end up emptyand fertility goes down by as much as 50 percent.It&#39;s not just my work in amphibians,but similar work has been shown in fish in Europe,holes in the testes and absence of sperm in reptiles in a group from South Americaand in rats, an absence of spermin the testicular tubules as well.And of course, we don&#39;t do these experiments in humans,but just by coincidence,my colleague has shownthat men who have low sperm count, low semen qualityhave significantly more atrazine in their urine.
时间：15:05
zh-cn:这些男士都居住在农业社区。从事农业的男士含有更高水平的阿特拉津。那些实际上喷洒阿特拉津的人，尿液里的阿特拉津的含量是我们能够测出的现有的人的24000倍。当然，其中90%的是墨西哥人和墨西哥-美国人。他们并不只接触阿特拉津。他们也接触本来用作神经毒气的化学制品例如氯化苦。这些工人很多只能活到50岁。
en:These are just men who livein an agricultural community.Men who actually work in agriculturehave much higher levels of atrazine.And the men who actually apply atrazinehave even more atrazine in their urine,up to levels that are 24,000 times what we know to be activeare present in the urine of these men.Of course, most of them, 90 percent are Mexican, Mexican-American.And it&#39;s not just atrazine they&#39;re exposed to.They&#39;re exposed to chemicals like chloropicrin,which was originally used as a nerve gas.And many of these workershave life expectancies of only 50.
时间：15:39
zh-cn:并不吃惊野生动物也在警告我们，就像雷切尔·卡森和别的科学家都已警告过一样。这张幻灯片的证据来自乌干达的那布加波湖，农作物的流出物接进到这些水桶，这是这个村的唯一水源，用来饮用，做饭和梳洗。如果我告诉这个村里的人，青蛙有免疫功能问题，它们的睾丸里长有卵子，那么环境健康和公众健康的关系就显而易见了。你不会去喝你知道会影响野生动物的水。问题是，在奥克兰我的村里，在我们大多数的村子里我们看不到这种关系。我们打开水龙头，水就出来，我们就认为它是安全的。我们自以为是环境的主人，而不是当中的一部分。
en:It shouldn&#39;t come to any surprise that the things that happen in wildlifeare also a warning to us,just like Rachel Carson and others have warned.As evident in this slide from Lake Nabugabo in Uganda,the agricultural runoff from this crop,which goes into these buckets,is the sole source of drinking, cooking and bathing water for this village.Now if I told the men in this villagethat the frogs have pour immune functionand eggs developing in their testes,the connection between environmental health and public healthwould be clear.You would not drink water that you knew was having this kind of impacton the wildlife that lived in it.The problem is, in my village, Oakland,in most of our villages,we don&#39;t see that connection.We turn on the faucet, the water comes out, we assume it&#39;s safe,and we assume that we are masters of our environment,rather than being part of it.
时间：16:25
zh-cn:PJC：不难看出这实际上是个环境问题。我曾反复思考这个问题。我们知道全球温暖化和气候变化但我们对我一直称呼的内部环境保护论一无所知。我们很清楚我们在往外放什么东西，我们也感觉到它们的影响，我们却忽视这种感觉但当我们往外放东西发生什么或吃东西时。
en:PJC: So it doesn&#39;t take much to realizethat actually this is an environmental issue.And I kept thinking over and over againthis question.We know so much about global warming and climate change,and yet, we have no conceptof what I&#39;ve been calling internal environmentalism.We know what we&#39;re putting out there,we have a sense of those repercussions,but we are so ignorant of this senseof what happens when we put things, or things are putinto our bodies.
时间：16:53
zh-cn:我的感受和我的迫切，让我们妇女要出去作为传达者，我们也要负担养育孩子的重担，我们是家庭的主要力量，所以我们也要再走出一步去承担一些Tyrone和世界的其它科学家们所做的工作。我的迫切要求是当我们考虑环境问题的时候，记住并不只是消融的冰川，冰冠，也关乎我们的孩子。
en:And it&#39;s my feelingand it&#39;s my urging being hereto know that, as we women move forwardas the communicators of this,but also as the ones who carry that burdenof carrying the children, bearing the children,we hold most of the buying power in the household,is that it&#39;s going to be us moving forwardto carry the work of Tyrone and other scientists around the world.And my urging isthat when we think about environmental issuesthat we remember that it&#39;s not just about melting glaciers and ice caps,but it&#39;s also about our children as well.
时间：17:26
zh-cn:谢谢大家！
en:Thank you.
时间：17:28
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
