时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我是从高崖跳伞开始我的特技生涯的。高崖跳伞就是利用滑翔降落伞从高山上跳下，高崖跳伞可以让你穿越乡间，并且飞得更远，而且仅仅利用热空气来让你飞行。滑翔降落伞可以在空中提供更多的机动性。
en:I started with paragliding.Paragliding is taking off from mountainswith a paraglider, with the possibility tofly cross-country, distance,just with the use of thermals to soar.Also different aerobatic maneuvers are possiblewith a paraglider.
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:自那以后我开始从事高空跳伞。从这张照片你可以看到这个是四人式跳伞，四个人一块儿下落，左手边的跳伞员负责摄像机他的头盔上设有一个摄像机所以他就可以拍摄整个跳伞过程，拍摄的目的不仅仅是为了拍摄还为了事后对录像进行分析。
en:From there I started with skydiving.In this picture you can seethere is a four-way skydive,four people flying together,and on the left hand side it&#39;s the camera flierwith the camera mounted to his helmetso he can film the whole jump,for the film itself and also for the judging.
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:从一般的特技跳伞开始，我逐渐开始转向自由式跳伞。自由式跳伞更加强调了对三维空间的运用。你可以看见穿红色跳伞服的跳伞员，他的下落姿势是站立式的。穿黄绿相间跳伞服的，是倒立式下落的。背后的那个人是我，围绕着中间两个人转同样是自由落体，也同样戴了一个头盔摄像机在拍摄这次跳伞。
en:From regular, relative skydivingI went on to freeflying.Freeflying is more the three-dimensional skydiving.You can see the skydiver with the red suit,he&#39;s in a stand-up position.The one with the yellow-green suit,he&#39;s flying head-down.And that&#39;s me in the background, carving around the whole formationin freefall also, with the helmet camto film this jump.
时间： 1:19
zh-cn:从自由式跳伞我又开始空中滑板，空中滑板就是高空跳伞的同时在脚上加一块滑板。显而易见，因为滑板巨大的接触面积，可以在下落过程中提供很大的上升力。当然我可以利用这种力做出各种动作 －我们管这个动作叫直升机式。
en:From freeflying I went on to skysurfing.Skysurfing is skydiving with a board on the feet.You can imagine with this big surfaceof a skysurfing board,there is a lot of force, a lot of power.Of course I can use this powerfor example for nice spinning — we call it &quot;helicopter moves.&quot;
时间： 1:42
zh-cn:然后我又开始翼服飞行。翼服飞行是利用翼服，实现仅仅利用身体就可以飞行。假如我用我的身体给翼服增大张力，我就可以飞行了。显而易见，翼服飞行的下坠速度要明显得慢就是因为翼服增大了与空气得接触面积。假如动作标准我就可以往前飞行得很远。这是我在里约热内卢的一跳。你可以看到我的左手边是科巴卡巴纳海滩。
en:From there I went on to wingsuit flying.Wingsuit flying is a suit,that I can make fly, just only with my body.If I put some tension on my body, tension on my suit,I can make it fly. And as you seethe fall rate is much much slowerbecause of the bigger surface.With a proper body position I&#39;m able to really move forwardto gain quite some distance.This is a jump I did in Rio de Janeiro.You can see the Copacabana on the left-hand side.
时间： 2:18
zh-cn:从那以后我利用了从高崖跳伞到现在学到的所有知识和技巧以及不同的飞行规则，我开始了低空跳伞。低空跳伞那是从固定的物体上跳伞，比如说，房屋，天线，桥和大地 －所谓大地就是高山和悬崖。对我来说这绝对是在自由落体的同时又能利用周边环境做参照物的最好的感觉了。
en:From there with all the skills and knowledgefrom paragliding and all the different disciplinesin skydiving, I went on to BASE jumping.BASE jumping is skydiving from fixed objects,like buildings, antennae, bridges and earth —meaning mountains, cliffs.It&#39;s for sure — for me — it&#39;s the ultimate feelingof being in free fall,with all the visual references.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:所以我的目标是尽快找到从来没有人跳过的地方。2000年的夏天我是第一个从瑞士Eiger山北面低空跳伞的人。两年后，我是第一个从Matterhorn跳下的人，Matterhorn是一个大概在座每位都知道的山。2005年我从Eiger, Monk 和 Jungfrau三座在瑞士非常有名的山跳下。从这三处跳下的特别之处在于，我仅花一天就爬上了那些山。2008年我从巴黎埃菲尔铁塔上跳下。（众笑）
en:So my goal soon was to discover new placesthat nobody had jumped before.So in summer 2000 I was the first to BASE jumpthe Eiger North Face in Switzerland.Two years after this, I was the first to BASE jump from Matterhorn,a very famous mountain that probablyeverybody knows in here.2005 I did a BASE jump from the Eiger, from the Monk and from the Jungfrau,three very famous mountains in Switzerland.The special thing on these three jumps were,I hiked them all and climbed them all in only one day.In 2008 I jumped the Eiffel Tower in Paris.(Laughter)
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:随着我知识的增长，我又想从事特技表演。我和几个朋友一起开始做各种各样的特技，比如说从这里跳下，我从一个滑翔伞上跳下。或者说从这里，每个人都冻得不行了，除了我，因为我们的拍摄地，奥地利很冷。所有人都待在热气球的架子里，我则在热气球的顶端，准备从顶端用高空滑板上滑下。还有这一跳，从高速公路上行驶的货车上跳下。（众笑）
en:So with all this knowledge, I alsowanted to get into stunts.So with some friends we started to do different tricks,like for example this jump here,I jumped from a paraglider.Or here — everybody was freezing, pretty much, except me,because it was very cold in Austriawhere we did this filming.Everybody sitting in a basket,and I was on top of the balloon,ready to slide down with my skysurf board.Or this jump, from a moving truck on the highway.(Laughter)
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:像这样难度最高的极限运动必须从头开始一步一步地练习，假如说你努力学习技巧并且掌握足够的知识（才能从事这样的运动）。当然你需要保持非常好的身体状况（才能从事这样的运动），所以我平时花很多时间进行身体训练。你同样还需要最顶尖的器材。然而最重要的是你要学会控制你的意识力，精神力。这些加起来你就可以尽可能地达到人类能够飞行的梦想。
en:Extreme sports on top level like thisis only possible if you practice step by step,if you really work hard on your skillsand on your knowledge.Of course you need to be in physical, very good, condition,so I&#39;m training a lot.You need to have the best possible equipment.And probably the most important isyou have to work on your mental skills, mental preparation.And all this to come as close as possibleto the human dream of being able to fly.
时间： 4:58
zh-cn:从2009年，我在刻苦训练准备我的下两项项目。第一个，我想打破一个从悬崖上跳下的翼服飞行的世界纪录。这个世界纪录，是用翼服飞行能够滑翔距离最长的纪录。我的第二个项目，是一个轰动性的主意，是从一个从来没有人跳过的地方跳下。
en:So for 2009,I&#39;m training hard for my two new projects.The first one, I want to set a world recordin flying from a cliff with my wingsuit.And I want to set a new record,with the longest distance ever flown.For my second project,I have a sensational ideaof a jump that never has been done before.
时间： 5:26
zh-cn:所以从接下来的一段影片众中将看到我翼服飞行的能力要比说英语的能力好得多。希望你们喜欢，谢谢。（观众鼓掌）
en:So now, on the following movie you will seethat I&#39;m much better in flying a wingsuitthan speaking in English.Enjoy, and thank you very much.(Applause)
时间： 9:35
zh-cn:（观众鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:June Cohen: 我有一些问题。我认为我们都有一些问题。第一个问题，翼服飞行的感觉是不是和人类真正飞翔的梦想一样？因为看起来很像。
en:June Cohen: I have some questions.I think we all might have some questions.Question one: so does that actually feelthe way the flying dream does?Because it looks like it might.
时间： 9:55
zh-cn:Ueli Gegenschatz：是很像。我认为这可能是当今离人类飞翔的最为接近的感觉了吧。
en:Ueli Gegenschatz: Pretty much. I believe this is probably the closestpossibility to come to the dream of being able to fly.
时间：10:02
zh-cn:JC: 我知道这个问题的答案但是我仍旧想问，你如何降落？
en:JC: I know the answer to this, but how do you land?
时间：10:05
zh-cn:UE: 降落伞。我们必须在，用我的话来说，“撞击”的前几秒钟内打开降落伞。（众笑）现在还不能只用翼服就能降落。
en:UE: Parachute. We have to open a parachutejust seconds before, I would say, impact.(Laughter)It&#39;s not possible to land a wingsuit yet.
时间：10:18
zh-cn:JC: “还不能”。但是人们正在努力实现这个梦想，你是不是其中之一？你不是其中之一，那你是不是希望实现这个梦想的人之一呢？
en:JC: Yet. But people are trying. Are you among those —you&#39;re not going to commit — are you among those trying to do it?
时间：10:23
zh-cn:UE: 这是一个梦想。我们仍旧在研发性能更加好的翼服，并且学到了许多。我相信在不久的未来（能够实现这个梦想）。
en:UE: It&#39;s a dream. It&#39;s a dream. Yeah.We&#39;re still working on it and we&#39;redeveloping the wingsuits to get better performance,to get more knowledge.And I believe soon.
时间：10:34
zh-cn:JC: 好的。我们拭目以待。但我仍旧有两个问题。那个从你身后放出的尾气。是不是因为你的翼服有驱动功能？
en:JC: All right. Well we will watch this space. But I have two more questions.What is the — there was exhaust comingout of the back of the wingsuit. Was that a propelled wingsuit that you were wearing?
时间：10:41
zh-cn:UE: 不是。只不过是烟雾而已。
en:UE: Nope. It&#39;s just smoke.
时间：10:43
zh-cn:JC: 从你身上放出来的？
en:JC: Coming off of you?
时间：10:44
zh-cn:（众笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:45
zh-cn:UE: 但愿不是。
en:UE: Hopefully not.
时间：10:47
zh-cn:（众笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:48
zh-cn:JC: 这个（烟）看上去很危险。
en:JC: That seems dangerous.
时间：10:49
zh-cn:UE: 不危险，烟雾有两个作用，你可以从烟雾来估测飞行速度，你同样可以看见我的飞行轨迹。这是第一个作用。第二个作用，假如我用烟雾，摄像师可以更加有效方便地跟踪我
en:UE: No, smoke is for two reasons,you can see the speed, you can see the waywhere I was flying.That&#39;s reason number one. And reason number two:it&#39;s much easier for the camera guy to filmIf I&#39;m using smoke.
时间：11:04
zh-cn:JC: 啊，我知道了。你故意让翼服放出烟雾所以你就更加容易被跟踪。再有一个问题。你用什么来遮盖你的脸？因为我在想假如你飞得那么快你的脸肯定会被风压得不行。你是不是要戴头盔？或者你只带飞行眼镜？
en:JC: Ah, I see. So the wingsuit is set up to deliberately release smokeso that you can be tracked. One more question.What do you do to to cover your face?Because I just keep thinking of going that fastand having your whole face smushed backwards.Are you in a helmet? Are you in goggles?
时间：11:18
zh-cn:UE: 最美好，最纯粹的飞行感觉是只戴飞行眼镜。
en:UE: The purest and the best feeling would be with only goggles.
时间：11:21
zh-cn:JC: 那你平时是不是只戴飞行眼镜？
en:JC: And is that how you usually fly?
时间：11:24
zh-cn:UE: 我通常要戴头盔。在山沟中穿梭的话我一直戴头盔因为降落通常很困难与普通跳伞不同，普通跳伞有很大的空地让你着路。（而山里却没有空地）所以你必须要戴头盔以防万一。
en:UE: Usually I&#39;m wearing a helmet. In the mountains I&#39;m always wearing a helmetbecause of landings — usually it&#39;s difficult —it&#39;s not like regular skydiving where you have like the big landings.So you have to be prepared.
时间：11:35
zh-cn:JC: 对的。现在你是不是会有一些特技你不会去尝试？会不会有人拿着一些项目来跟你说：“我要你做这个！”你是不是会拒绝他们？
en:JC: Right. Now is there anything you don&#39;t do?Do people come to you with projects and say, &quot;We want you to do this!&quot;and do you ever say, &quot;No, no I&#39;m not going to.&quot;
时间：11:42
zh-cn:UE: 当然了，当然了。有些人很疯狂……
en:UE: Oh of course, of course. Some people have crazy ideas and —
时间：11:44
zh-cn:（众笑）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:48
zh-cn:JC: 大家再次掌声感谢……
en:JC: ...a round of applause...
时间：11:51
zh-cn:（观众鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:53
zh-cn:UE:非常感谢。
en:UE: Thank you very much.
时间：11:55
zh-cn:（观众鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
