时间： 0:11
zh-cn:节俭/富国电子(Frugal Digital)本质上是一家挂靠在哥本哈根互动设计机构下的小型研究机构哥本哈根互动设计机构的成员们一直在尝试研究改变对于如何创造一个包罗万象的电子社会的一些看法这是我们追求的目标我们之所以这么做，是因为我们认为目前的硅谷科技大多关于一种过剩文化它的主体大多关于最快的速度，最高的效率最炫的工具然而，世界上三分之二左右的人几乎难以接触到这种最基本的科技并用这种科技解决最基本的生活需求例如，医疗，教育以及其他所有最最基本的事项
en:Frugal Digital is essentially a small research group at C.I.D.where we are looking to findalternate visions of how to create a digitally inclusive society.That&#39;s what we&#39;re after.And we do this because we actually believethat silicon technology today is mostly abouta culture of excess.It&#39;s about the fastest and the most efficientand the most dazzling gadget you can have,while about two-thirds of the worldcan hardly reach the most basic of this technologyto even address fundamental needs in life,including health care, educationand all these kinds of very fundamental issues.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:所以，在我开始今天的演讲前，我想跟大家分享一个小故事是关于一位我曾在孟买碰到的先生他名叫萨斯-佘理他非常杰出因为他是一位企业家自己经营着一家小店那家店位于孟买的一条穷街陋巷店面只有10平米左右但他却在这间简陋狭小的店铺里做了很多事情令人难以置信，我简直不敢相信我自己的眼睛当我有一次偶遇他的时候他所提供的服务几乎包罗万象，无所不及那些服务通常针对小额付款和在线订票还有各种琐碎、基本的在线活动，你能想到的那些基本上都被涵盖在内但是他是服务于线下的客户把线下的客户连接到电子世界中来更重要的是，他的盈利模式是通过销售手机充值卡给预付卡的用户然后，在店面，他有个小房间和一些员工在里面他们就可以修理几乎所有东西包括所有手机，小工具，他们都可以修理覆盖的服务还很广泛，我曾经就拿过iPhone去修他说：“你是否需要升级？”“当然要！”（笑声）当时我其实对他抱有怀疑，但是之后我决定还是先给他个诺基亚试试看吧（笑声）
en:So before I start, I want to talk about a little anecdote,a little story about a man I met once in Mumbai.So this man, his name is Sathi Shri.He is an outstanding person,because he&#39;s a small entrepreneur.He runs a little shopin one of the back streets of Mumbai.He has this little 10-square-meter store,where so much is being done.It&#39;s incredible, because I couldn&#39;t believe my eyeswhen I once just happened to bump into him.Basically, what he does is, he has all these servicesfor micro-payments and booking ticketsand all kinds of basic things that you would go online for,but he does it for people offlineand connects to the digital world.More importantly, he makes his moneyby selling these mobile recharge coupons, you know,for the prepaid subscriptions.But then, in the backside, he&#39;s got this little nookwith a few of his employeeswhere they can fix almost anything.Any cell phone, any gadget you can bring them, they can fix it.And it&#39;s pretty incredible because I took my iPhone there,and he was like, &quot;Yeah, do you want an upgrade?&quot;&quot;Yes.&quot; (Laughter)I was a bit skeptical, but then, I decidedto give him a Nokia instead. (Laughter)
时间： 2:05
zh-cn:不过之后我就吃惊了，他的逆向工程做得如此之好他拿小小的两米空间内竟然蕴藏着如此深厚的知识功力他们能够解决所有需要的东西例如拆解重排电路，更新固件对手机无所不能而且他们修理速度非常之快你可以把手机早上拿过去午饭后左右就可以取回了相当惊人
en:But what I was amazed about is this reverse engineeringand know-how that&#39;s built into this little two meters of space.They have figured out everything that&#39;s requiredto dismantle, take things apart,rewrite the circuitry, re-flash the firmware,do whatever you want to with the phone,and they can fix anything so quickly.You can hand over a phone this morningand you can go pick it up after lunch,and it was quite incredible.
时间： 2:33
zh-cn:于是我们差异这究竟是当地的一个现象，还是在全球均属普遍现象随着时间慢慢过去，我们开始逐渐理解也开始系统地做一些研究他们这种维修生态系统究竟是什么因为这发生在孟买的大街小巷，每个角落，并非只在这条街而已甚至遍布全国乃至非洲，比如我们在开普敦对此做了大量研究即便在这里——多哈，我也能找到这个小小的角落你可以通过它修理闹钟和手表闹钟、手表都有很多小零部件，修理起来着实不易你自己试试就知道了
en:But then we were wondering whether this isa local phenomenon, or is truly global?And, over time, we started understandingand systematically researchingwhat this tinkering ecosystem is about,because that is something that&#39;s happeningnot just in one street corner in Mumbai.It&#39;s actually happening in all parts of the country.It&#39;s even happening in Africa, like, for example,in Cape Town we did extensive research on this.Even here in Doha I found this little nookwhere you can get alarm clocks and watches fixed,and it&#39;s a lot of tiny little parts. It&#39;s not easy.You&#39;ve got to try it on your own to believe it.
时间： 3:05
zh-cn:但是是什么驱动了这些呢？就是整套低成本零件的生态系统产自世界各地而后，他们重新分配到这个产业你甚至可以通过他们买到二手零件你甚至基本上不用买任何新的东西。你有个坏电脑那些电脑没有了外壳但是你可以买一些处理零部件然后重新组装一台电脑
en:But what fuels this?It&#39;s this entire ecosystem of low-cost partsand supplies that are produced all over the world, literally,and then redistributed to basically service this industry,and you can even buy salvaged parts.Basically, you don&#39;t have to necessarily buybrand new things. You have condemned computersthat are stripped apart,and you can buy salvaged componentsand things that you can reassemble in a new configuration.
时间： 3:31
zh-cn:那么我们可以从这种新的方式中学到什么呢？这是真正关键的问题，因为有些东西一直存在着作为每个社会的一部分需要耗费太多资源但是，同时也有一个有趣的范式通常现有传统手工艺而后演变成科技含量高的工艺我们称之为“科技含量高的工艺”是因为它们还刚刚兴起它们并非成熟的产业没有形成气候大学里也没有关于这一领域的课程和研究而是口口相传的属于非正式教育体系
en:But what does this new, sort of, approach give us?That&#39;s the real question, because this is somethingthat&#39;s been there, part of every societythat&#39;s deprived of enough resources.But there&#39;s an interesting paradigm.There&#39;s the traditional crafts,and then there&#39;s the technology crafts.We call it the technology crafts because these are emerging.They&#39;re not something that&#39;s been established.It&#39;s not something that&#39;s institutionalized.It&#39;s not taught in universities.It&#39;s taught [by] word of mouth,and it&#39;s an informal education system around this.
时间： 3:59
zh-cn:因此，我们想说：“我们究竟可以从中学到什么呢？”你认为我们应从中学习什么关键价值观呢？我认为主要是一种文化，即力争在本地修复这简直太棒了，因为这意味着你的产品或服务无需经过冗长的行政系统，才最终得以修复同时，它也便于我们获得经济实惠的附件，这也非常好，因为它意味着你可以花同样的钱做更多的事然后，最重要的是它为我们大大地节省了成本也就意味着你可以运用很多巧妙的算法把它更广泛地应用于一些实际上非常简单的设备上
en:So we said, &quot;What can we get out of this?You know, like, what are the key values that we can get out of this?&quot;The main thing is a fix-it-locally culture,which is fantastic because it means that your productor your service doesn&#39;t have to go througha huge bureaucratic system to get it fixed.It also affords us cheap fabrication, which is fantastic,so it means that you can do a lot more with it.And then, the most important thing is,it gives us large math for low cost.So it means that you can actually embedpretty clever algorithms and lots of other kindsof extendable ideas into really simple devices.
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:因此，我们称之为硅谷“山寨”行业基本上，它就是工业革命前的系统或范式这种系统和范式现在再次上演以一种全新的方式，开展在小规模电子商店里遍布全球大多数的发展中国家
en:So, what we call this is a silicon cottage industry.It&#39;s basically what was the system or the paradigmbefore the industrial revolution is now re-happeningin a whole new way in small digital shopsacross the planet in most developing countries.
时间： 4:49
zh-cn:因此，我们就考虑这个想法我们想：“我们能利用这个想法做些什么呢？能不能用它来发明一些小产品或设计什么服务呢？“因此我们做的第一件事就是多媒体平台。我们称之为”午餐盒“我们研究的场景之一是位于印度很偏远的学校这个惊人的想法在当地被叫做”一个老师的学校“这唯一的老师在那里扮演着多重角色在这让人惊讶的小型社会场合中教课它是一所非正规教育的学校但教育的领域很是全面他们唯一没有的是资源。他们甚至没有教科书有时候，他们也没有合适的课程
en:So, we kind of toyed around with this idea,and we said, &quot;What can we do with this?Can we make a little product or a service out of it?&quot;So one of the first things we did is this thing calleda multimedia platform. We call it a lunch box.Basically one of the contexts that we studied wasschools in very remote parts of India.So there is this amazing concept called the one-teacher school,which is basically a single teacher who is a multitaskerwho teaches this amazing little social setting.It&#39;s an informal school,but it&#39;s really about holistic education.The only thing that they don&#39;t haveis access to resources. They don&#39;t even have a textbooksometimes, and they don&#39;t even have a proper curriculum.
时间： 5:27
zh-cn:所以我们就像：”我们如何才能让这位老师有更多‘权力’呢从而他可以施展更多？”如何让他接触到电子世界？而非作为唯一的信息守护者让他能够传递这些信息所以我们想：“要做到这一点哪些步骤是必要的呢？”如何让这位老师成为数字的大门如何设计一个花费不太高昂的多媒体平台而且这个平台需要在本地搭建，并服务本地“于是我们在当地考察了一番去了一些就近的市场试着去了解，”通过学习什么东西能促进实现这个想法？“
en:So we said, &quot;What can we do to empower this teacherto do more?&quot; How to access the digital world?Instead of being the sole guardian of information,be a facilitator to all this information.So we said, &quot;What are the steps required to empower the teacher?&quot;How do you make this teacher into a digital gateway,and how do you design an inexpensive multimedia platformthat can be constructed locally and serviced locally?&quot;So we walked around.We went and scavenged the nearby markets,and we tried to understand, &quot;What can we pick up that will make this happen?&quot;
时间： 5:59
zh-cn:我们从中学到了一点那就是配备小投影仪的移动电话一台这样的电话大约是60美元我们买了一个带大电池的闪光灯还有一些小的麦克风于是，这部手机给了我们一个连接外界的多媒体平台我们可以通过它上网，上传文件包括各种格式，还可以播放、观看这些文件闪光灯则是一个发光很强，很明亮的LED还带有可充电的电池，可支撑长达6小时这个”午饭盒“可谓一个很不错的小装备你可以往里面放任何东西以及一些小型扬声器用来扩大音量请相信我，那些小教室确实非常嘈杂小孩子们通常都大喊大叫因此你的音量必须高过他们我们拿回这件小东西把它拿到那个维修铺随后，奇妙的事情就发生了我们拆解了它把它重新组装把硬件重整一番系统性地培训了团队成员如何操作于是，这个小”午饭盒”就诞生了！
en:So the thing that we gotwas a little mobile phone with a little pico projectorthat comes for about 60 dollars.We went a bought a flashlight with a very big battery,and a bunch of small speakers.So essentially, the mobile phone gives usa connected multimedia platform.It allows us to get online and allows us to load up filesof different formats and play them.The flashlight gives us this really intense, bright L.E.D.,and six hours worth of rechargeable battery pack,and the lunch box is a nice little packagein which you can put everything inside,and a bunch of mini speakers to sort ofamplify the sound large enough.Believe me, those little classrooms are really noisy.They are kids who scream at the top of their voices,and you really have to get above that.And we took it back to this little tinkering setupof a mobile phone repair shop,and then the magic happens.We dismantle the whole thing,we reassemble it in a new configuration,and we do this hardware mashup,systematically training the guy how to do this.Out comes this, a little lunch box — form factor.
时间： 7:00
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 7:07
zh-cn:之后，我们进行了系统性地实地测试因为在这些实地测试中我们可以了解到一些要点，我们经历一遍又一遍的重复一个关键的问题是电池耗电量和充电亮度也是个问题，有时候室外的阳光非常刺眼因为很多情况下屋顶是破损的，因此你的教室可能暗度不合适
en:And we systematically field tested,because in the field testing we learned someimportant lessons, and we went through many iterations.One of the key issues was battery consumption and charging.Luminosity was an issue, when you have too much bright sunlight outside.Often the roofs are broken, so you don&#39;t have enoughdarkness in the classroom to do these things.
时间： 7:27
zh-cn:我们延伸了这一想法，再次反复调试了很多次之后的升级版可以利用太阳能来充电更重要的是，它可以连接到汽车电池因为汽车电池是比较普及的能源形式特别是当地这种电力不完善的地方或者说供电不稳定
en:We extended this idea. We tested it many times over,and the next version we came up with was a boxthat kind of could trickle charge on solar energy,but most importantly connect to a car battery,because a car battery is a ubiquitous source of powerin places where there&#39;s not enough electricityor erratic electricity.
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:我们做的另外一件很关键的事情是给它设计了一个USB接口，因为我们意识到纵使有GPRS信号，和论文里面都有的东西，至少理论上更有效的方式是用U盘传送数据可能需要几天才能到但至少清晰度很高而且质量可靠因此我们做了这个小盒子，然后重新测试了一下并随着设计不断测试不断改进
en:And the other key thing that we did wasmake this box run off a USB key, because we realizedthat even though there was GPRS and all that on paper,at least, in theory, it was much more efficientto send the data on a little USB key by surface mail.It might take a few days to get there,but at least it gets there in high definitionand in a reliable quality.So we made this box, and we tested it againand again and again, and we&#39;re going throughmultiple iterations to do these things.
时间： 8:11
zh-cn:但是这个技术绝非仅限于用于教育这种技术几乎可以用于任何领域让我再告诉你一个小故事这个故事关于一个叫做“中介测量器”的小设备这是我们研发的一个小型健康检测仪
en:But it&#39;s not limited to just education.This kind of a technique or metrologycan actually be applied to other kinds of areas,and I&#39;m going to tell you one more little story.It&#39;s about this little device called a medi-meter.It&#39;s basically a little health care screening tool that we developed.
时间： 8:26
zh-cn:在印度，有一群惊人的医疗工作者——ASHA工作人员他们堪称医疗卫生系统的排头兵生活在当地社区，接受过基本医疗概念和工具操作的培训主要目的是告诉人们如何过更好的生活，同时提出一些建议关于他们应该获取哪种医疗服务？从本质上来讲，他们是为人们推荐服务
en:In India, there is a context of these amazing people,the health care workers called ASHA workers.They are essentially foot soldiers for the health care systemwho live in the local community and are trainedwith basic tools and basic concepts of health care,and the main purpose is basically to inform peopleto basically, how to lead a better life, but alsoto divert or sort of make recommendationsof what kind of health care should they approach?They are basically referral services, essentially.
时间： 8:55
zh-cn:但是我们觉得这其中的问题是经过一系列研究之后，他们会告诉人们哪里是最近的诊室或者公共医疗护理系统，但是那些公共医疗护理系统的一个问题是：这些地方通常都需要排很长的队人太多了，使得系统超负荷运转简单说是因为医生和设备数量不够对比需要使用这些资源的人数因此，下至普通感冒上至严重的疟疾，基本上都是同等对待没有分优先级
en:But the problem with that is that we realizedafter a bunch of research that they are amazingat referring people to the nearest clinicor the public health care system, but what happens at thepublic health care system is this: these incredibly long linesand too many people who overload the systemsimply because there&#39;s not enough doctors and facilitiesfor the population that&#39;s being referred.So everything from a common coldto a serious case of malaria gets almost the samelevel of attention, and there&#39;s no priorities.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:于是我们就想：“不行！一定得有一种更好的方式！需要有更好的办法来解决这个问题！”“那么我们该怎么跟ASHA工作人员一起合作呢才能让他们成为一个好的筛选机制而不仅仅是一个筛子而已，能够让他们发挥推荐的作用进而还可以平衡系统内的工作量把不同病人分配到不同的卫生资源根据他们疾病的严重程度”
en:So we said, &quot;Come on, there&#39;s got to be a better wayof doing this for sure.&quot;So we said, &quot;What can we do with the ASHA workerthat&#39;ll allow this ASHA worker to become an interesting filter,but not just a filter, a really well thought through referralsystem that allows load balancing of the network,and directs patients to different sources of health carebased on the severity or the criticalness of those situations?&quot;
时间： 9:50
zh-cn:于是最关键的问题就是我们如何助力这些女士们？如何用比较简单的工具让她们有能力胜任？本质上是更多的侧重于筛选，而非严格诊断从而让她们如何给病人更好的建议？这对系统会产生很大的影响因为等候的时间太长，并且他们需要做跋涉的路程太远有时候当地人需要经过7-15公里，有时候甚至是步行的才可以获得一次简单的健康检查，这是极其不利的从某种程度上讲，甚至让人们放弃去获取医疗服务因此，如果她们可以做到刚才提到的那些事情，那将令人震撼而惊奇
en:So the real key question was,how do we empower this woman?How do we empower her with simple toolsthat&#39;s not diagnostic but more screening in natureso she at least knows how to advise the patients better?And that&#39;ll make such a huge difference on the system,because the amount of waiting time and the amount ofdistances that people need to travel, often sometimesseven to 15 kilometers, sometimes by foot,to get a simple health check done, is very, very detrimentalin the sense that it really dissuades peoplefrom getting access to health care.So if there was something that she could do,that would be amazing.
时间：10:27
zh-cn:于是我们把这个想法转换成了这个设备这个医疗仪器让我来为你们展示一下因为过程很简单
en:So what we did was that we converted this deviceinto a medical device.I want to demo this actually,because it&#39;s a very simple process.
时间：10:36
zh-cn:布鲁诺，想一起来吗？（鼓励）来吧！（掌声）
en:Bruno, do you want to join us? (Cheers)Come along. (Applause)
时间：10:45
zh-cn:我们要做的就是来测量你的一些基本指标包括，脉搏、心率、氧饱和率就是那些在你血液里的氧气含量你只要把手指放在上面就可以了
en:So, what we&#39;re going to do is thatwe&#39;re going to measure a few basic parameters on you,including your pulse rate and the amount of oxygenthat&#39;s there in your blood.So you&#39;re going to put your thumb on top of this.
时间：10:59
zh-cn:布鲁诺：就像这样？可以吗？
en:Bruno Giussani: Like this, works?
时间：11:00
zh-cn:威内：对，没错。布鲁诺：好
en:Vinay Venkatraman: Yeah. That&#39;s right. BG: Okay.
时间：11:02
zh-cn:威内：好，那我要开始啦！希望它能成功。（嘀嘀声）它会发出嘀嘀声，因为它毕竟是个闹钟呵呵（笑声）
en:VV: So I&#39;m going to start it up. I hope it works.(Beeps) It even beeps, because it&#39;s an alarm clock, after all.So ... (Laughter)
时间：11:12
zh-cn:好，现在我从头开始，然后我按下阅读键（嘀嘀声）于是，它就开始测量了你的那些指标了（嘀嘀声）然后指针就指向三个不同的标准让我们来看一看（嘀嘀声）哦，布鲁诺，你可以回去了
en:So I take it into the start position, and thenI press the read button. (Beeps)So it&#39;s taking a little reading from you. (Beeps)And then the pointer goes and points to three different options.Let&#39;s see what happens here.(Beeps) Oh Bruno, you can go home, actually.
时间：11:34
zh-cn:BG：太棒了！好消息！（掌声）
en:BG: Great. Good news. (Applause)
时间：11:38
zh-cn:威内：呵呵，那么……（掌声）
en:VV: So ... (Applause)
时间：11:40
zh-cn:从中我们可以看到如果指针不幸地指向红色区域它警示我们要赶紧去医院还好今天不是这样。如果它指向橙色区域或者受琥珀色，那么说明你必须从医疗工作者那里获取持续的护理服务所以，这可以说是一个很简单的三部曲检验流程但是却可以带来很多改变对公共医疗卫生产生方方面面的影响
en:So the thing about this is thatif the pointer, unfortunately, had pointed to the red spot,we would have to rush you to a hospital.Luckily, not today. And if it had pointed to the orangeor the amber, it basically meant you had to have,sort of, more continuous care from the health care worker.So that was a very simple three-step screening processthat could basically change the equationof how public health care works in so many different ways.
时间：12:07
zh-cn:布鲁诺：谢谢你的好消息！威内：没关系！
en:BG: Thank you for the good news. VV: Yeah.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:（掌声）所以，我已经向各位简要介绍了这个设备的基本工作方式因为这部分比较有趣从根本上来讲，需要具备三点来确保这一转变首先是价格低廉电视机的遥控器这个你在哪里都买得到其次是电脑鼠标的一些部件这些你也可以以很低的价格淘到还有就是一些编过程的部件换句话说，它就是个小遥控器，外加一些零部件，都是极其便宜的东西在世界上任何地方一样。这就是所需要的全部了可能还需要一点当地的维修人才来转换这个设备所以我们现在要做的就是一些系统的实地测试从而确认这个设备是否能够合理地应用于ASHA工作人员的工作场合
en:(Applause)So, very briefly, I&#39;ll just explain to you how this is done,because that&#39;s the more interesting part.So essentially, the three things that are requiredto make this conversion from this guy to this guyis a cheap remote control for a televisionthat you can almost find in every home today,some parts from a computer mouse, basically,something that you can scavenge for very low cost,and a few parts that have to be pre-programmed.Basically this is a micro-controller with a fewextra components that can be shipped for very little costacross the world, and that&#39;s what is all requiredwith a little bit of local tinkering talentto convert the device into something else.So we are right now doing some systematic field teststo basically ascertain whether something like this actuallymakes sense to the ASHA worker.
时间：13:05
zh-cn:我们开展了一些对比测试来进行比较跟那些专业设备进行对比，看看在效率方面的提高和对人们生活产生的实际响。不过，最重要的当属我们现在尝试做的是扩大它的规模因为总共有超过25万ASHA工作人员作为医疗领域的排头兵，如果我们可以至少给他们中的一部分这些设备就可以大大改变公共医疗卫生的经济运作方式了，它改变了系统的运作方式而不仅是在系统性统筹计划层面上的但是也非常草根，非常自下而上
en:We are going through some reference tests to compare itagainst professional equipment to see if there&#39;s a degreeof change in efficacy and if it actually makes an impactin people&#39;s lives. But most importantly,what we are trying to do right nowis we are trying to scale this up, because thereare over 250,000 ASHA workers on the groundwho are these amazing foot soldiers, and if we cangive at least a fraction of them the access to these things,it just changes the way the economics of public health careworks, and it changes the way systems actually function,not just on a systematic planning level,but also in a very grassroots, bottom-up level.
时间：13:43
zh-cn:就是这样，我们希望能更大规模地做这些事情谢谢！（掌声）
en:So that&#39;s it, and we hope to do this in a big way.Thank you. (Applause)
时间：13:49
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
