时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我们如何使用电脑照相机，话筒来呈现这个世界以另一种方式，尽可能的展现？如何才能利用网络去制造一种新形式的电影院？归根到底，我们为什么记录呢
en:Vincent Moon: How can we use computers,cameras, microphones to represent the worldin an alternative way,as much as possible?How, maybe, is it possible to use the Internetto create a new form of cinema?And actually, why do we record?
时间： 0:36
zh-cn:让我们先把这个问题留一会10年前我开始了制作电影刚开始是和一个朋友一起 他叫Christophe Abric他曾经有一个网站叫 La Blogotheque专门制作独立音乐我们曾经疯狂的热爱音乐我们想用不同的方式去展示音乐用不同的方式去拍摄我们喜爱的音乐，我们崇敬的音乐家尽可能的做的与音乐工业不同远远的离开与之相关的陈词滥调我们开始每周在网络上发布音乐系列让我们看几个精彩片段
en:Well, it is with such simple questions in mindthat I started to make films 10 years ago,first with a friend, Christophe Abric.He had a website, La Blogothèque,dedicated to independent music.We were crazy about music.We wanted to represent music in a different way,to film the music we love,the musicians we admired,as much as possible, far from the music industryand far from the cliches attached to it.We started to publish every weeksessions on the Internet.We are going to see a few extracts now.
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:从沐浴的Grizzy Bear乐队到在巴黎咖啡馆演奏的SigurRose从在埃菲尔铁塔演奏的Phoenix到在纽约酒店房间的Tom Johnes从在奥林匹亚电梯中的Arcade Fire到走下布鲁克林楼梯的Beirut从在车中的R.E.M.到法国南部夜晚圆桌边的The National从跟几个朋友一起在蒙马特公寓的Bon Lver到漫漫长夜中的Yeasayer还有很多很多很多不知名的或者非常知名的乐队。
en:From Grizzly Bear in the showerto Sigur Ros playing in a Parisian cafe.From Phoenix playing by the Eiffel Towerto Tom Jones in his hotel room in New York.From Arcade Fire in an elevatorin the Olympiato Beirut going downa staircase in Brooklyn.From R.E.M. in a carto The National around a table at nightin the south of France.From Bon Iver playing with some friendsin an apartment in Montmartreto Yeasayer having a long night,and many, many, many moreunknown or very famous bands.
时间： 2:13
zh-cn:我们发布所有的电影到免费的网络上我们希望去分享所有的片段并且展示音乐用一种不同的方式我们希望使用所有的心记住去创造一种亲密在那时，事实上10年前网络上还没有这种项目我觉得这也是为什么我们制作的这个项目“Take Away Shows” （带走的演出）能够如此的成功拥有了百万的观看者
en:We published all those filmsfor free on the Internet,and we wanted to shareall those films and represent musicin a different way.We wanted to create another type of intimacyusing all those new technologies.At the time, 10 years ago actually,there was no such project on the Internet,and I guess that&#39;s why the project we were making, the Take Away Shows,got quite successful,reaching millions of viewers.
时间： 2:43
zh-cn:一段时间以后，我有点我希望开始做点别的什么我觉得需要去旅行，去发现其他的音乐去探索这个世界去到另一个角落事实上也是我心中的这个游牧电影院的想法，怎么去利用新技术和（这个）想法结合我如何能在我的汽车上剪辑电影当我驱车穿越安第斯山脉的时候于是我去了一趟历时5年的旅行穿越全球我从一个数字电影和音乐的合集网站 开始 -Petites Planètes它也是法国电影制作家 Chris Marker的主页我们将看到几个新的电影其中的片段
en:After a while, I got a bit —I wanted to go somewhere else.I felt the need to travel andto discover some other music,to explore the world,going to other corners,and actually it was alsothis idea of nomadic cinema,sort of, that I had in mind.How could the use of new technologies and the road fit together?How could I edit my films in a buscrossing the Andes?So I went on five-year travelsaround the globe.I started at the time in the digital film and music label collection Petites Planètes,which was also an homage toFrench filmmaker Chris Marker.We&#39;re going to see now a few more extractsof those new films.
时间： 3:34
zh-cn:从巴西北部盖比 的tecno brega diva到车臣的女生合奏从新加坡”One Man Nation“的实验电子音乐到巴西正保罗的Tom Ze在自家房顶的歌唱从著名的美国亚美尼亚摇滚乐队 The Bambir到一些在第比利斯格鲁吉亚的餐厅中的传统歌曲从印度尼西亚雅加达的复古流行乐队 White Shores （白鞋子）到乌克兰基辅的革命性乐队， DakhaBrakha从阿根廷艾利斯的Tomi Lebrero和他的乐队以及朋友到很多其他的地方以及世界各地的音乐家们
en:From the tecno brega diva ofnorthern Brazil, Gaby Amarantosto a female ensemble in Chechnya.From experimental electronic music in Singapore with One Man Nationto Brazilian icon Tom Zé singingon his rooftop in São Paolo.From The Bambir, the great rock band from Armeniato some traditional songsin a restaurant in Tbilisi, Georgia.From White Shoes, a great retro pop band from Jakarta, Indonesiato DakhaBrakha, the revolutionary band from Kiev, Ukraine.From Tomi Lebreroand his bandoneon and his friendsin Buenos Aires, Argentina,to many other placesand musicians around the world.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:我的渴望是把这个做成一个音乐游历制作所有这些电影短片如果有一个大公司在我的背后这些都可能会不能实现（因为公司的）结构或者别的什么的。在我旅行的时候，我知道了一个背包里面有电脑，相机和麦克风独自一人，事实上，和当地的群众团队会议，绝对没有的职业人员，都是在现场的从一个地方到另一个地方像游历一样制作电影我真实地相信电影制作是可以非常简单的我希望能制作一部电影， 你能提供给我一个晚上能住的地方我提供给你一个短片，你能赠我一杯鸡尾酒或者别的什么喝的，看你在什么地方了
en:My desire was to make it as a trek.To do all those films,it would have been impossiblewith a big company behind me,with a structure or anything.I was traveling alone with a backpack —computer, camera, microphones in it.Alone, actually, but just with local people,meeting my team, which was absolutely notprofessional people, on the spot there,going from one place to anotherand to make cinema as a trek.I really believed that cinema could bethis very simple thing:I want to make a film and you&#39;re going to give me a place to stay for the night.I give you a moment of cinemaand you offer me a capirinha.Well, or other drinks,depending on where you are.
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:在秘鲁，他们喝皮斯科鸡尾酒（pisco sour）当我到达秘鲁我不知道我到底想要做些什么事实上，我只有一个电话号码一个人的三个月后，在走遍整个国家后，我录制了33个电影只有当地居民的帮助只有当地居民的帮助我一直在问一个同样的问题今天，什么是值得记录的？通过这样的生活通过没有规矩的工作我做到了对（那些）时刻响应决定这个时刻是重要的录制整个人是重要的这个场景是重要的我去车臣的时候我遇到的第一个人看着我，像是说你在这里干嘛？你是杂志记者吗？非政府组织？政界人士？你来研究什么问题的？当然，我是去研究的（研究）车臣苏菲的仪式不可思议的苏菲的文化对整个外界来说完全不知的（文化）当地人民很快知道我在给他们制做电影在创作知识共享许可协议的前提下发布到免费的网站同时我也会将这些电音给到当地的人民让他们决定怎样制作电影我只是想呈现给他们一束美丽的光我只是想去以一种方式描写他们的子孙将会看到他们的祖父母将来有一天他们会有这样的时刻哇，我的祖父像Beyonce （美国流行音乐歌唱家）一样的酷这是一件很重要的事情（掌声）
en:In Peru, they drink pisco sour.Well, when I arrived in Peru, actually,I had no idea about what I would do there.And I just had one phone number, actually,of one person.Three months later,after traveling all around the country, I had recorded 33 films,only with the help of local people,only with the help of peoplethat I was asking all the time the same question:What is important to record here today?By living in such a way,by working without any structure,I was able to react to the momentand to decide, oh, this is important to make now.This is important to record that whole person.This is important to create this exchange.When I went to Chechnya,the first person I metlooked at me and was like,&quot;What are you doing here?Are you a journalist? NGO? Politics?What kind of problems are you going to study?&quot;Well, I was there to researchon Sufi rituals in Chechnya, actually —incredible culture of Sufism in Chechnya,which is absolutely unknown outside of the region.As soon as people understoodthat I would give them those films —I would publish them online for freeunder a Creative Commons license,but I would also really give them to the peopleand I would let them do what they want with it.I just want to represent them in a beautiful light.I just want to portray them in a way thattheir grandchildren are goingto look at their grandfather,and they&#39;re going to be like,&quot;Whoa, my grandfather is as cool as Beyoncé.&quot; (Laughter)It&#39;s a really important thing.(Applause)
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:这是非常重要的因为就是这种方式人民开始以一种不同的眼光去看待他们的文化，在他们自己的土地上他们会有不同的想法这可能是一种方式去维护一种不同多样性。你为什么要记录？有一个很好的引用美国的思想家Hakim Bey的说法， “每一个记录都是一个生活表演的墓碑“是一句很好的值得记在心里的话。现在在充满图形的纪元里真正的意义是什么呢？我们拿它干什么呢？我曾经在探索，我仍然保持着这个想法是什么意义呢？我曾经在研究音乐，试图去拉试图去走进它的源头。所有这些事从哪里来的？我是法国人，我不知道的我会发现什么，这是一件很简单的事情所有的事情刚开始都很神秘的，音乐是精神的治疗剂我如何能使用我的相机我的小工具，去接近又或者捕捉这个足迹但是找到一个平衡，一个电影的影子，在与人的完全的和谐中
en:It&#39;s really important,because that&#39;s the waypeople are going to look differently at their own culture, at their own land.They&#39;re going to think about it differently.It may be a way to maintain a certain diversity.Why you will record?Hmm. There&#39;s a really good quoteby American thinker Hakim Beywhich says, &quot;Every recordingis a tombstone of a live performance.&quot;It&#39;s a really good sentence to keep in mindnowadays in an era saturated by images.What&#39;s the point of that?Where do we go with it?I was researching. I was still keeping this idea in mind:What&#39;s the point?I was researching on music, trying to pull,trying to get closer to a certain origin of it.Where is this all coming from?I am French. I had no idea aboutwhat I would discover, which is a very simple thing:Everything was sacred, at first,and music was spiritual healing.How could I use my camera,my little tool, to get closerand maybe not only capture the trancebut find an equivalent, a cine-trance, maybe,something in complete harmonywith the people?
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:这是我现在做的研究灵性上的，世界上新的精神现在再看几个短片从印度里西亚塔纳托纳雅的葬礼仪式到北埃塞尔比亚的复活节庆祝从Jathilan，一种流行恍惚的仪式在爪洼的岛屿上到巴西北部的尤班达在车臣的苏菲仪式到亚美尼亚一个圣神教堂中的弥撒哈勒尔的苏菲歌曲埃塞俄比亚的圣神之城死藤水仪式在秘鲁的亚马逊深处然后到我的新项目，我正在做的在这里，巴西，叫做&quot;Híbridos.&quot;我和Priscilla Telmon一起做的研究整个国家的新的精神这是我的请求，我自己的小请求， 我叫做实验性的民族性试图去融合这些不同的流派试图去成就一定的复杂度。
en:That is now my new research I&#39;m doingon spirituality, on new spirits around the world.Maybe a few more extracts now.From the Tana Toraja funeral ritual in Indonesiato an Easter ceremony in the north of Ethiopia.From jathilan, a popular trance ritualon the island of Java,to Umbanda in the north of Brazil.The Sufi rituals of Chechnyato a mass in the holiest church of Armenia.Some Sufi songs in Harar,the holy city of Ethiopia,to an ayahuasca ceremonydeep in the Amazon of Peru with the Shipibo.Then to my new project, the one I&#39;m doing nowhere in Brazil, named &quot;Híbridos.&quot;I&#39;m doing it with Priscilla Telmon.It&#39;s research on the new spiritualities all around the country.This is my quest, my own little quest of what I call experimental ethnography,trying to hybrid all those different genres,trying to regain a certain complexity.
时间：10:52
zh-cn:我们为什么记录？我还在问这个问题我真实的相信，摄像机教我们去看我们呈现给世界的方式将会改变我们看待世界的方式，和我们生活的时刻，当大量的媒体正在做的极差的时候在呈现世界暴力，极端主义分子，只有美妙的事件只有每天生活的简单性我觉得我们在记录去获取一种繁复去重塑生活我们必须制作新的印象同时也是很简单的
en:Why do we record?I was still there.I really believe cinema teaches us to see.The way we show the worldis going to change the way we see this world,and we live in a moment where the mass mediaare doing a terrible, terrible jobat representing the world:violence, extremists,only spectacular events,only simplifications of everyday life.I think we are recordingto regain a certain complexity.To reinvent life today,we have to make new forms of images.And it&#39;s very simple.
时间：11:39
zh-cn:谢谢(Muito obrigado)
en:Muito obrigado.
时间：11:42
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：11:53
zh-cn:布努诺吉萨尼: Vincent, Vincent, Vincent.我们需要准备接下来的表演我有一个问题想要问你，你出现在就像你给我们看的那些地方你带了摄像机吗？我假设你是被欢迎的但是你不是总是被完全欢迎的吧你走进恐怖的仪式在乡村中某个私人的时刻，一群人你怎么打破障碍的当你到这镜头出现的时候？
en:Bruno Giussani: Vincent, Vincent, Vincent.Merci. We have to prepare forthe following performance,and I have a question for you,and the question is this:You show up in places like the ones you just have shown us,and you are carrying a cameraand I assume that you are welcomebut you are not always absolutely welcome.You walk into sacred rituals,private moments in a village, a town,a group of people.How do you break the barrierwhen you show up with a lens?
时间：12:29
zh-cn:VM:我觉得你更多时候用你的身体进入超过于你的知识这是在旅行中学到的相信身体的记忆力多过于大脑的记忆尊重就是向前走，而不是向后退，我真是的认为通过你的身体在仪式去沟通在那些地方，人民欢迎你并且理解你的意图
en:VM: I think you break it with your body,more than with your knowledge.That&#39;s what it taught me to travel,to trust the memory of the bodymore than the memory of the brain.The respect is stepping forward,not stepping backward, and I really think thatby engaging your body in themoment, in the ceremony,in the places, people welcome youand understand your energy.
时间：12:54
zh-cn:你告诉我，很多你制作的录像都是单次录制完成的不太会剪辑我的意思是，你为我们剪辑了一部在我们的节目开始的时候，因为太长了。如果一般情况，你都是直接拍摄了任何在你眼前发生的事情也没有计划什么的，对吗？是这样的
en:BG: You told me that most of the videosyou have made are actually one single shot.You don&#39;t do much editing.I mean, you edited the ones for usat the beginning of the sessionsbecause of the length, etc.Otherwise, you just go in and capturewhatever happens in front of your eyeswithout much planning, and so is that the case?It&#39;s correct?
时间：13:12
zh-cn:我的想法是只要我不剪辑，只要我让观众看到越来越的观众会觉得离（演出）更近一些，离那些时刻更近一些，离那些地方更近一些我真的相信这是尊重观众的方式不去剪裁和拼接而是让时间一直跑
en:VM: My idea is that I think thatas long as we don&#39;t cut, in a way,as long as we let the viewer watch,more and more viewers are going to feel closer,are going to get closer to the moment,to that moment and to that place.I really think of that as a matter of respecting the viewer,to not cut all the time from one place to another,to just let the time go.
时间：13:40
zh-cn:用几个字告诉我你的项目在巴西叫做“混合动力车” （Híbridos）事实上，在成为来TED全球之前你还在全国旅行告诉我们几件事情
en:BG: Tell me in a few words about your new project,&quot;Híbridos,&quot; here in Brazil.Just before coming to TEDGlobal, you have actuallybeen traveling around the country for that.Tell us a couple of things.
时间：13:50
zh-cn:“混合动力车” 是 （我相信是巴西）是世界上做大的宗教国家，远离尘世在精神层面来讲，最大的国家在实践上，在灵魂上这是我今年做的大项目是探索到不同的巴西宗教在完全不同的文化形式上试图去理解人们是怎么生活在一起的在当代的精神下
en:VM: &quot;Híbridos&quot; is — I really believe Brazil,far from the cliches, is the greatestreligious country in the world,the greatest country in terms of spiritualityand in experimentations in spiritualities.And it&#39;s a big project I&#39;m doing over this year,which is researching in verydifferent regions of Brazil,in very different forms of cults,and trying to understand how people live togetherwith spirituality nowadays.
时间：14:15
zh-cn:在接下来即将上台的人是温什特将会介绍他项目中的一个主角你什么时候完成对他的拍摄的？
en:BG: The man who is going to appear onstage momentarily,and Vincent&#39;s going to introduce him,is one of the subjects of one of his past videos.When did you do a video with him?
时间：14:26
zh-cn:我记得是4年前我四年前的第一次旅行
en:VM: I guess four years ago,four years in my first travel.
时间：14:31
zh-cn:所以是你第一次在巴西？是的，是我在第一次到巴西期间我在累西腓拍摄他的，他是从那里出来的
en:BG: So it was one of your first ones in Brazil.VM: It was amongst the first ones in Brazil, yeah.I shot the film in Recife,in the place where he is from.
时间：14:40
zh-cn:让我们介绍他，我们还等什么？
en:BG: So let&#39;s introduce him. Who are we waiting for?
时间：14:43
zh-cn:让我简短的讲两句我非常的荣幸能来到这个舞台巴西最好的音乐家之一请欢迎 呐呐塞洛斯 “Naná Vasconcelos”
en:VM: I&#39;ll just make it very short.It&#39;s a very great honor for me to welcome onstageone of the greatest Brazilian musicians of all time.Please welcome Naná Vasconcelos.
时间：14:52
zh-cn:呐呐塞洛斯 Naná Vasconcelos!
en:BG: Naná Vasconcelos!
时间：14:54
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：15:01
zh-cn:（音乐）
en:(Music)
时间：19:18
zh-cn:呐呐塞洛斯，让我们进入丛林
en:Naná Vasconcelos: Let&#39;s go to the jungle.
时间：23:58
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
