时间： 0:11
zh-cn:你可能会疑惑为什么我戴着太阳镜，其中的一个答案就是因为我今天的主题是魅力。所以，我们都认为自知什么叫做魅力。大家请看。是非常有魅力的影星，比如玛琳·黛德丽。也有男性。非常迷人。不仅仅因为他可以射击，开车—你知道，他是喝酒的，事实上他的旁边总是伴随着酒香—当然，他总是一副绅士模样。不过我认为魅力实际上有更为广泛的含义其中一部分（当然）那些电影明星和小说人物所展现出来的但也有其他的表达方式。
en:You might be wondering why I&#39;m wearing sunglasses,and one answer to that is, because I&#39;m here to talk about glamour.So, we all think we know what glamour is. Here it is.It&#39;s glamorous movie stars, like Marlene Dietrich.And it comes in a male form, too —very glamorous.Not only can he shoot, drive, drink — you know, he drinks wine,there actually is a little wine in there —and of course, always wears a tuxedo.But I think that glamour actually has a much broader meaning —one that is true for the movie stars and the fictional characters,but also comes in other forms.
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:杂志？不过，当然不是这本。这是新标准下魅力值最低的杂志—里面充斥着性爱技巧。性爱技巧并不具备魅力。Drew Barrymore，她所有的迷人之处，也谈不上具有魅力。但是却存在着一个魅力产业。这个是 Margaret Bourke-White的其中的一幅作品。美妙的，迷人的图片展现着钢铁厂，造纸厂和各种充满魅力的工业场所。这个是车库经理人的神话般的魅力这是惠普当初起家的车库。我们知道任何一个从车库起家的创业者最终都成了惠普的融资人。这是物理学的魅力。还有什么能比洞察整个宇宙，伟大的统一更加具有魅力呢—而且，顺便提一下，如果你是Brian Greene这很有用。他还有很多其他类型的魅力。
en:A magazine?Well, it&#39;s certainly not this one.This is the least glamorous magazine on the newsstand — it&#39;s all about sex tips.Sex tips are not glamorous.And Drew Barrymore, for all her wonderful charm,is not glamorous either.But there is a glamour of industry.This is Margaret Bourke-White&#39;s —one of her pictures she did.Fantastic, glamorous picturesof steel mills and paper mills and all kinds of glamorous industrial places.And there&#39;s the mythic glamourof the garage entrepreneur.This is the Hewlett-Packard garage.We know everyone who starts a business in a garageends up founding Hewlett-Packard.There&#39;s the glamour of physics.What could be more glamorous than understanding the entire universe,grand unification? And, by the way, it helps if you&#39;re Brian Greene —he has other kinds of glamour.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:当然，这种，魅力。这是，非常非常迷人的—外太空的魅力。而且并不是外星人式的魅力而是美好，干净，60年代初期的样子。那么到底什么叫做魅力？当然，如果想了解魅力的含义，你可以做的一件事情就是查看字典而且事实上如果你去查阅很古老的字典会很有用，在这种情况下，这是1913版的字典。因为时代变迁，魅力会相应的有着其特定的含义，而且这个词汇实际上和我们设想的方式是截然不同的。你很有魅力。这并不是说它是一种品质—你可以将其抛开。魅力是一种字面意义上的魔力咒符。而不是今天我们所使用的，隐喻的方式。而是一种和女巫、吉普赛人紧密联系在一起的魔力咒符而且在某种程度上，可以是凯尔特魔法。而且这么多年来，在20世纪的转交之际，魅力开始呈现出一点其他类型的戏法—这种解释是任何有关人的对某种实体的兴趣或者联系，通过它可以呈现出被放大或者渲染过的迷惑。但是，魅力仍是是一种幻觉。魅力是一种魔力咒符。而且关于魅力有一些危险的地方。人类历史的大部分情况下，当女巫对你抛出一个不符合你自身利益的魔力咒符，它就会使你做出违背自己意愿的事情。
en:And there is, of course, this glamour.This is very, very glamorous: the glamour of outer space —and not the alien-style glamour,but the nice, clean, early &#39;60s version.So what do we mean by glamour?Well, one thing you can do if you want to know what glamour meansis you can look in the dictionary.And it actually helps a lot more if you look in a very old dictionary,in this case the 1913 dictionary.Because for centuries, glamour had a very particular meaning,and the word was actually used differently from the way we think of it.You had &quot;a&quot; glamour.It wasn&#39;t glamour as a quality — you &quot;cast a glamour.&quot;Glamour was a literal magic spell.Not a metaphorical one, the way we use it today,but a literal magic spell associated with witches and gypsiesand to some extent, Celtic magic.And over the years, around the turn of the 20th century,it started to take on this other kind of deception —this definition for any artificial interest in, or association with,an object through which it appears delusively magnified or glorified.But still, glamour is an illusion.Glamour is a magic spell.And there&#39;s something dangerous about glamourthroughout most of history. When the witches cast a magic spellon you, it was not in your self-interest —it was to get you to act against your interest.
时间： 3:00
zh-cn:当然，在20世纪，魅力开始和好莱坞联系在一起从而拥有了各种不同的含义。这是Hedy Lamarr。Hedy Lamarr说，“只要你坐在那里装出一副傻样，任何人都可以看起来充满魅力。”但是事实上，并无意冒犯Hedy Lamarr—我们接下来还会讲到她—其实还有更多的含义。创造这种好莱坞式魅力，暗中联系着数量庞大的科技成就。有大量的修图师，灯光专家和化妆专家。你可以去好莱坞的博物馆去领会好莱坞的历史然后看看属于Max Factor的特定工作室，这是在这里根据他要组织的星星的组合他绘出了不同的颜色。所以你可以看到高度风格化的肖像方法它并不是完全属于这个星球—它是一颗星星的肖像。而且事实上，我们经常看到美化过的各种星星的图片，也被称作假色。
en:Well of course, in the 20th century,glamour came to have this different meaning associated with Hollywood.And this is Hedy Lamarr.Hedy Lamarr said, &quot;Anyone can look glamorous,all you have to do is sit there and look stupid.&quot; (Laughter)But in fact, with all due respect to Hedy —about whom we&#39;ll hear more later — there&#39;s a lot more to it.There was a tremendous amount of technical achievementassociated with creating this Hollywood glamour.There were scores of retouchers and lighting experts and make-up experts.You can go to the museum of Hollywood history in Hollywoodand see Max Factor&#39;s special rooms that he painted different colorsdepending on the complexion of the star he was going to make up.So you&#39;ve got this highly stylized portrait of somethingthat was not entirely of this earth — it was a portrait of a star.And actually, we see glamorized photos of stars all the time —they call them false color.
时间： 3:53
zh-cn:魅力是一种伪造的形式，但是通过其要达到某种目的。或许是去装饰一个星星，或许是营销一部影片。这都牵涉到很多的科技因素。它并不是—魅力并不是一种—你并不会早上一起来就魅力照人，这和你是谁无关。即使Nicole Kidman也不会一早起来就魅力十足。这需要一个理想化，赞颂化，戏剧化的过程，这并不是只适用于人。魅力并不一定要和人相关。建筑摄影—关于转换，Julius Schulman拍摄了这张著名的，梦幻般的Kauffman House的照片。建筑摄影是十分具有魅力的。它是你置身于这种非常特别的世界中。这个是Alex Ross的动漫艺术，看起来非常真实，实际上营造这种真实感这也是他的艺术风格的一部分。只是在现实世界中，灯光效果却不是如此。
en:Glamour is a form of falsification,but falsification to achieve a particular purpose.It may be to illuminate the star; it may be to sell a film.And it involves a great deal of technique.It&#39;s not — glamour is not something —you don&#39;t wake up in the morning glamorous. I don&#39;t care who you are.Even Nicole Kidman doesn&#39;t wake up in the morning glamorous.There is a process of &quot;idealization, glorification and dramatization,&quot;and it&#39;s not just the case for people.Glamour doesn&#39;t have to be people.Architectural photography —Julius Schulman, who has talked about transfiguration,took this fabulous, famous picture of the Kauffman House.Architectural photography is extremely glamorous.It puts you into this special, special world.This is Alex Ross&#39;s comic book art,which appears to be extremely realistic,as part of his style is he gives you a kind of realism in his comic art.Except that light doesn&#39;t work this way in the real world.
时间： 4:50
zh-cn:人群按排列座的时候，后排的人要比前排的人看上去小一些。但是在魅力的概念中不是这样。还有什么和魅力相关的呢—这是我在纽约杂志的目录中的一个宣传广告中发现的，这意味着魅力的回归—魅力的宗旨就是不断进取。而且我认为这已经开始和魅力的核心接近了，不管是什么形式的。这是Filippino Lippi在1543年所作的圣女Apollonia的肖像。我也不知道她是谁，但是在15世纪，这相当于我们今日的超级名模。这是一幅非常迷人的肖像画。为什么它迷人呢？它之所以迷人的第一个原因是美丽，但这还不够，美丽和魅力是两码事。她高雅，神秘的形象中透露着卓尔不凡，这些是魅力的核心元素。你看不见她的双眼，她在向下看。她也没有把目光从你的身上移开，但是你却禁不住的思考她的世界。她在鼓励你去探索她存在于的这个更高一层的世界，远离喧嚣，手握着把她折磨致死的铁器。Mel Gibson的“耶稣受难记”—不属于这类范畴。这就是魅力。这是米开朗琪罗的圣母怜子雕像，这里的圣母玛丽与耶稣同龄而且都十分开心，无忧无虑。
en:When you stack people in rows,the ones in the background look smaller than the ones in the foreground —but not in the world of glamour.What glamour is all about — I took this from a blurbin the table of contents of New York magazine,which was telling us that glamour is back —glamour is all about transcending the everyday.And I think that that&#39;s starting to get at what the corethat combines all sorts of glamour is.This is Filippino Lippi&#39;s 1543 portrait of Saint Apollonia.And I don&#39;t know who she is either,but this is the [16th] century equivalent of a supermodel.It&#39;s a very glamorous portrait.Why is it glamorous?It&#39;s glamorous, first, because she is beautiful —but that does not make you glamorous,that only makes you beautiful.She is graceful, she is mysterious and she is transcendent,and those are the central qualities of glamour.You don&#39;t see her eyes; they&#39;re looking downward.She&#39;s not looking away from you exactly,but you have to mentally imagine her world.She&#39;s encouraging you to contemplate this higher worldto which she belongs, where she can be completely tranquilwhile holding the iron instruments of her death by torture.Mel Gibson&#39;s &quot;Passion Of The Christ&quot; — not glamorous.That&#39;s glamour:that&#39;s Michelangelo&#39;s &quot;Pieta,&quot; where Mary is the same age as Jesusand they&#39;re both awfully happy and pleasant.
时间： 6:14
zh-cn:魅力使得我们能够进入另一个世界。这同时要求其不得不保持一定的神秘性，一点点的距离。所以你经常可以在这些魅力的摄影中发现，画面中的人并非看着观众。这也就是太阳镜之所以迷人的原因了，但是也不能高高在上不可靠近。在某种程度上，必须存在着和我们相似的因素。因此正如我说过，宗教艺术中，你知道，上帝是不富有魅力的。上帝不能带有这种特质因为他无所不能，无所不知—这一切都使得我们只能敬畏之。然而你可以在宗教艺术中经常发现描绘圣人，或者圣母玛利亚的作品—竭力展现出其迷人的一面—虽然并不经常。就像我之前说的，魅力并非和人沾上关系但是卓越的品质这一点是不可或缺的。试想一下超人除了Alex Ross非常迷人的造型，超人能深入人心的一个原因就是他使得你相信人是可以飞的。
en:Glamour invites us to live in a different world.It has to simultaneously be mysterious, a little bit distant —that&#39;s why, often in these glamour shots,the person is not looking at the audience,it&#39;s why sunglasses are glamorous —but also not so far above us that we can&#39;t identify with the person.In some sense, there has to be something like us.So as I say, in religious art, you know, God is not glamorous.God cannot be glamorous because God is omnipotent,omniscient — too far above us.And yet you will see in religious art, saints or the Virgin Marywill often be portrayed — not always — in glamorous forms.As I said earlier, glamour does not have to be about people,but it has to have this transcendent quality.What is it about Superman?Aside from Alex Ross&#39;s style, which is very glamorous,one thing about Superman is he makes you believe that a man can fly.
时间： 7:05
zh-cn:魅力的宗旨就是提升这个世界的可能性达到一种理想化，完美的境界。这也就是为什么当代的交通运输方式如此的吸引人。而且对于我们来说，它们越是陌生，其迷人的色彩就越浓厚。因此你可以制作一张魅力跑车的图片，但是你不能用同样的方式把“交通”描绘出来。你可以制作一张彰显飞机的魅力的图片，但对其内部机制却不能。这是因为那种“被运载”的思想，而且事实并不是像，你知道，飞机前这个家伙，和他的讨厌的小孩，或者一阵咳嗽。事情是你到达的目的地，或者想到你在哪里到达。而且这种“被运载”的感觉才是它吸引我们的一个原因。我们所说的魅力并不在于这种流程化的风格因为我们将其同相应时期的影片结合起来了，而是因为，在这种流线型的体验中，我们日复一日的被它承载者。
en:Glamour is all about transcending this worldand getting to an idealized, perfect place.And this is one reason that modes of transportationtend to be extremely glamorous.The less experience we have with them,the more glamorous they are.So you can do a glamorized picture of a car,but you can&#39;t do a glamorized picture of traffic.You can do a glamorized picture of an airplane, but not the inside.The notion is that it&#39;s going to transport you,and the story is not about, you know, the guy in front of you in the airplane,who has this nasty little kid, or the big cough.The story is about where you&#39;re arriving,or thinking about where you&#39;re arriving.And this sense of being transportedis one reason that we have glamour styling.This sort of streamlining styling is not just glamorousbecause we associate it with movies of that period, but because,in it&#39;s streamlining, it transports us from the everyday.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:同样的—拱形是非常富有魅力的。再加上彩色玻璃—就更加迷人了。那远远看去弯曲的楼梯十分吸引人。我恰巧发现某种特定的楼梯图片非常吸引我因为对我来说，它牢牢的呈现了那种思想者学术生活的风格，或者因为我在普林斯顿大学上过学吧。总之，天际线迷人的难以置信，城市街道—却不这样。你知道，当你真正的，走进一个真实的小城。地平线，开阔的公路，如此如此的迷人。还有几样比地平线更富有魅力的事物除了，那种，多重地平线的可能，而且当然，这里你不会感到冷，或者是热—你看到的只是可能性。为了顺利的呈现出魅力，你需要这种sprezzatura的文艺复兴的特性，这个词语的典故是Castiglione在一本书“廷臣之书。”在经历了几个世纪以后，这个版本以今天的眼光看来已经不再令人印象深刻了。
en:The same thing — arches are very glamorous.Arches with stained glass — even more glamorous.Staircases that curve away from you are glamorous.I happen to find that particular staircase picture very glamorousbecause, to me, it captures the whole promiseof the academic contemplative life —but maybe that&#39;s because I went to Princeton.Anyway, skylines are super glamorous,city streets — not so glamorous.You know, when you get, actually to this town it has reality.The horizon, the open road, is very, very glamorous.There are few things more glamorous than the horizon —except, possibly, multiple horizons.Of course, here you don&#39;t feel the cold, or the heat —you just see the possibilities.In order to pull glamour off, you need this Renaissance qualityof sprezzatura, which is a term coined by Castiglionein his book, &quot;The Book Of The Courtier.&quot;There&#39;s the not-glamorous version of what it looks like today,after a few centuries.
时间： 9:03
zh-cn:sprezzatura是那种浑然天成的艺术。它使得事物简约易懂。你不用去向妮可·基德曼是如何穿着那件裙子的，这种着装在她身上就是如此的自然。而且我还记得在看完Lara Croft电影之后，我阅读着Angelina Jolie如何偏题鳞伤的回到家中。不过当然，伤的痕迹都用彩妆遮盖住了，但是Lara Croft也上演了同样的特技，但是因为sprezzatura，她安然无恙。隐藏任何事前的痕迹，或者说，使之显得自然。这是魅力的一个核心方面—魅力意味着雕琢。你是如何创造卓越的感觉，唤起一个完美世界的感觉？那种，你知道，生活可以更美好的感觉，我可以成为其中的一份子—我可以成为一个完美的人，我可以成为这个完美世界的一部分。我们并不必让你知道所有乱糟糟的细节。
en:And sprezzatura is the art that conceals art.It makes things look effortless.You don&#39;t think about how Nicole Kidman is maneuvering that dress —she just looks completely natural.And I remember reading, after the Lara Croft movies,how Angelina Jolie would go home completely black and blue.Of course, they covered that with make-up,because Lara Croft did all those same stunts —but she doesn&#39;t get black and blue, because she has sprezzatura.&quot;To conceal all art and make whatever is done or said appear to be without effort&quot;:And this is one of the critical aspects of glamour.Glamour is about editing.How do you create the sense of transcendence,the sense of evoking a perfect world?The sense of, you know, life could be better, I could join this —I could be a perfect person, I could join this perfect world.We don&#39;t tell you all the grubby details.
时间： 9:54
zh-cn:这个，这是去年好心的Jeff Bezos借给我的。在Jeff的桌子下面是这个样子。这是电脑的真实呈现，看上去，各种各样的灯具，电子元件。但是如果你在一个产品目录中查看—尤其是为你现代，美丽的家添置物件的商品目录中—它是这个样子的。没有任何线路。但你下次查看邮箱中这些目录的时候—你可以经常地弄明白他们把杂乱无章的线路藏在哪了。但是如果你买下这个灯具的话，总是会有这种幻觉，那就是你生活在一个简洁整齐的世界中。下一个事实就是，如果你买下这个掌上电脑或者台式机—那么甚至在目前的无线世界中，你也不可能生活在没有线路的世界中。你必须拥有神秘感和优雅感。这就是—格蕾丝（与“优雅”同音）。我认为，这是有史以来最优雅的一张图片，部分是因为电影“Rear Window”的缘故问题是，她的优雅是否已经超出了当时的世界？答案是否定的，理所当然的，这只是一部电影。
en:Now, this was kindly lent to me by Jeff Bezos, from last year.This is underneath Jeff&#39;s desk.This is what the real world of computers,lamps, electrical appliances of all kinds, looks like.But if you look in a catalog —particularly a catalog of modern, beautiful objects for your home —it looks like this.There are no cords.Look next time you get these catalogs in your mail —you can usually figure out where they hid the cord.But there&#39;s always this illusion that if you buy this lamp,you will live in a world without cords. (Laughter)And the same thing is true of, if you buy this laptopor you buy this computer — and even in these wireless eras,you don&#39;t get to live in the world without cords.You have to have mystery and you have to have grace.And there she is — Grace.This is the most glamorous picture, I think, ever.Part of the thing is that, in &quot;Rear Window,&quot;the question is, is she too glamorous to live in his world?And the answer is no, but of course it&#39;s really just a movie.
时间：10:53
zh-cn:这还是Hedy Lamarr。而且，你知道，这种风格的顶盖是非常迷人的因为，就像太阳镜一样，它在遮掩的同时也欲盖弥彰。半透明是富有魅力的—这就是为什么人们穿戴珍珠的原因。就是为什么酒吧酒具富有魅力—半透明才吸引人，而不是透明，或者不透明。它使得我们进入了一个世界却不将其完整的呈现出来。而且我认为如果Grace Kelly是最富有魅力的人，也许玻璃镶嵌的旋转楼梯是是最富有魅力的室内快照因为旋转楼梯拥有如此不可思议的吸引力。那种悬上即离的感觉，然后你永远不知道整个过程是怎样的如果你知道，大概就是下来的时候吧。而且毋庸置疑的，玻璃砖具有那种半透明的感觉。因此，这部分讲到的是纯粹的愉悦不过魅力确实是一定程度上和涵义相关的。所有的个人所有的文化都在现实世界中几乎无法实现的理想。
en:Here&#39;s Hedy Lamarr again.And, you know, this kind of head covering is extremely glamorousbecause, like sunglasses, it conceals and reveals at the same time.Translucence is glamorous —that&#39;s why all these people wear pearls.It&#39;s why barware is glamorous. Glamour is translucent —not transparent, not opaque.It invites us into the worldbut it doesn&#39;t give us a completely clear picture.And I think if Grace Kelly is the most glamorous person,maybe a spiral staircase with glass block may be the most glamorous interior shot,because a spiral staircase is incredibly glamorous.It has that sense of going up and away,and yet you never think about how you would really tripif you were — particularly going down.And of course glass block has that sense of translucence.So, this session&#39;s supposed to be about pure pleasurebut glamour&#39;s really partly about meaning.All individuals and all cultures have idealsthat cannot possibly be realized in reality.
时间：11:56
zh-cn:矛盾是存在的，它支持着互相之前不具有可比性的原则，不管它是什么，这些理想在我们的生活里表达出了我们身为个人和文化的涵义和目的。而我们处理它的方式就是将其替换掉—我们将其放入到流金岁月，幻想的世界中，即将到来的，英雄的时代。当你以个人的状态生活时，我们经常将其和某种实体联系在一起。那白色的尖桩篱栅，完美的房屋。完美的厨房—在柜台上面没有任何的账单。你知道，你如果买的是那种北欧海盗风格的煤气灶，那么你的厨房就是这个样子的。完美的项链象征着完美的爱情，完美的钻戒。开上你的爱车逃离一切喧嚣。这是一个叫做Utopia的室内装饰公司。完美的办公室。同样地，整齐有序，当然，不，和我的办公室一点都不像。我的意思是，写字台上空空如也。我们渴望这样完美的世界。当有些人足够富有的时候，而且他们的理想又存在于那种理家的观念，他们就能达到理想的生活方式。
en:They have contradictions,they uphold principles that are incommensurable with each other —whatever it is — and yet these ideals give meaning and purposeto our lives as cultures and as individuals.And the way we deal with that is we displace them —we put them into a golden world, an imagined world,an age of heroes, the world to come.And in the life of an individual, we often associate that with some object.The white picket fence, the perfect house.The perfect kitchen — no bills on the counter in the perfect kitchen.You know, you buy that Viking range, this is what your kitchen will look like.The perfect love life — symbolized by the perfect necklace,the perfect diamond ring.The perfect getaway in your perfect car.This is an interior design firm that is literally called Utopia.The perfect office —again, no cords, as far as I can tell.And certainly, no, it doesn&#39;t look a thing like my office.I mean, there&#39;s no paper on the desk.We want this golden world.And some people get rich enough,and if they have their ideals — in a sort of domestic sense,they get to acquire their perfect world.
时间：13:01
zh-cn:Dean Koontz以装饰艺术的风格建造了这个绝伦的小影院—我认为这不是偶然的。这象征了这种家能给予安全的感觉。但这并不一定总是好的，因为你到底如何定义完美的世界？你的理想模型是什么，而且，把什么剔除出去了？是一些重要的东西吗？那么，“黑客帝国”是一部关于魅力的电影大片。我可以就这个话题滔滔不绝但是你知道，有批评者认为这对暴力进行了美化。因为你看-太阳镜，拉风的外衣，还有，当然，他们可以在墙上行走，做各种在现实世界中不可思议的事情。这是Margaret Bourke的另一张黑白照片。来自前苏联，很不错。我的意思是，看看这些人，多么的开心，也多么的俊俏。你知道，我们正在向着Utopia的方向前进。
en:Dean Koontz built this fabulous home theater, which is —I don&#39;t think accidentally — in Art Deco style.That symbolizes this sense of being safe and at home.This is not always good, because what is your perfect world?What is your ideal, and also, what has been edited out?Is it something important?&quot;The Matrix&quot; is a movie that is all about glamour.I could do a whole talk on &quot;The Matrix&quot; and glamour.It was criticized for glamorizing violence,because, look — sunglasses and those long coats, and, of course,they could walk up walls and do all these kinds of thingsthat are impossible in the real world.This is another Margaret Bourke-White photo.This is from Soviet Union. Attractive.I mean, look how happy the people are, and good-looking too.You know, we&#39;re marching toward Utopia.
时间：13:48
zh-cn:我并不太支持PETA（善待动物组织），但是我认为这是一个很好的广告。因为他们的意思再清楚不过，你的大衣不够好看，缺少的就是一些重要的东西。但是实际上，比铭记这一点更重要的是去思考，这种理想的模型真的是好的吗？因为魅力这个东西是非常集权性和迷惑性的。而且也不仅仅关乎于“祛除”是不是一个具有魅力的工作。这个是来自电影“意志的胜利”剪辑的工作做的非常棒。这个快照很赞。纳粹主义和魔力紧紧相连。有一种非常美学的意识形态。主要内容是赶走德国人，西方世界，乃至全世界，并且去掉任何单调乏味的东西。因此魅力，也可能是危险的代名词。
en:I&#39;m not a fan of PETA, but I think this is a great ad.Because what they&#39;re doing is they&#39;re saying,your coat&#39;s not so glamorous, what&#39;s been edited out is something important.But actually, what&#39;s even more importantthan remembering what&#39;s been edited out is thinking, are the ideals good?Because glamour can be very totalitarian and deceptive.And it&#39;s not just a matter of glamorizing cleaning your floor.This is from &quot;Triumph Of The Will&quot; —brilliant editing to cut together things.There&#39;s a glamour shot.National Socialism is all about glamour.It was a very aesthetic ideology.It was all about cleaning up Germany, and the West, and the world,and ridding it of anything unglamorous.So glamour can be dangerous.
时间：14:27
zh-cn:我认为&#39;魅力&quot;有一种真正的吸引力，真正的价值。我并不反对魅力。不过一种疑惑就是是否在生活的繁琐之中有些东西被祛除掉了。而且这两种情况下都有避免“危险魅力”的方法同时让你更加对其赞叹。让我们接受Isaac Mizrahi的建议坦然面对所有的蓄意操作，可以这么说，承认我们享受这个过程吧，而且也享受它发生的方式。这是Hedy Lamarr。没错，她如此的迷人，不过你得知道，她发明了扩展频谱科技。所以这使得她更加富有魅力了，因为她真的很聪明，即使她认为她可以看出去很傻的样子。
en:I think glamour has a genuine appeal, has a genuine value.I&#39;m not against glamour.But there&#39;s a kind of wonder in the stuff that gets edited away in the cords of life.And there is both a way to avoid the dangers of glamourand a way to broaden your appreciation of it.And that&#39;s to take Isaac Mizrahi&#39;s adviceand confront the manipulation of it all,and sort of admit that manipulation is something that we enjoy,but also enjoy how it happens.And here&#39;s Hedy Lamarr.She&#39;s very glamorous but, you know, she invented spread-spectrum technology.So she&#39;s even more glamorous if you know that she really wasn&#39;t stupid,even though she thought she could look stupid.
时间：15:05
zh-cn:David Hockney谈论过关于这个，我认为，非常吸引人的绘画作品的欣赏，如果你意识到这样一个事实虽然现实的水花四溅稍纵即逝，但是绘画这个效果花费了整整两周的时间，那么你就会更加珍视它。这是书店里的一本书—叫做“钢筋的交响乐”这讲述的是隐藏在迪斯尼中心靓丽外表下的水泥钢筋。它如此的迷人。这并不是严格意义上的魅力，不过“揭示魅力”也算是一种魅力吧。有一本非常棒的书叫做“王冠”讲述的是黑人女性戴着教堂礼帽的那些迷人瞬间。引用其中一位女士的话，“当我还是一个小女孩的时候，我非常羡慕那些在教堂戴着美丽礼帽的女士们。她们看起来就像漂亮的洋娃娃，好似刚从杂志封面中走出。但是我也知道她们背后付出的艰辛努力。有时候，那些帽子下隐藏的不仅仅是欢乐，还有忧伤。而且实际上，当你发现创造魅力的代价是什么的时候你才会对其发出更加由衷的赞叹。谢谢大家。
en:David Hockney talks about how the appreciation of thisvery glamorous painting is heightened if you think aboutthe fact that it takes two weeks to paint this splash,which only took a fraction of a second to happen.There is a book out in the bookstore —it&#39;s called &quot;Symphony In Steel,&quot;and it&#39;s about the stuff that&#39;s hidden under the skin of the Disney Center.And that has a fascination.It&#39;s not necessarily glamorous, but unveiling the glamour has an appeal.There&#39;s a wonderful book called &quot;Crowns&quot;that&#39;s all these glamour pictures of black women in their church hats.And there&#39;s a quote from one of these women, and she talks about,&quot;As a little girl, I&#39;d admire women at church with beautiful hats.They looked like beautiful dolls, like they&#39;d just stepped out of a magazine.But I also knew how hard they worked all week.Sometimes under those hats there&#39;s a lot of joy and a lot of sorrow.&quot;And, actually, you get more appreciation for glamourwhen you realize what went into creating it.Thank you.
