时间： 0:11
zh-cn:今天，我想和大家一探大脑的奥秘，这是我于加州大学所做的研究。试着思考一下这个问题。这里有一堆肉，大概重三磅左右，可以用一掌来握住。但它却可以探究浩瀚的星际空间；可以探究无限的意义；可以探究自身存在的意义；可以探究上帝的本质。
en:I&#39;d like to talk to you today about the human brain,which is what we do research on at the University of California.Just think about this problem for a second.Here is a lump of flesh, about three pounds,which you can hold in the palm of your hand.But it can contemplate the vastness of interstellar space.It can contemplate the meaning of infinity,ask questions about the meaning of its own existence,about the nature of God.
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:这是世界上最不可思议之事。这是人类面临的最大难题之一。这一切是怎么来的？正如你们所知，脑组织是由神经元所组成的。这就是神经元。成人脑组织里含有一千亿个神经元。每个神经元与其它神经元的交接点约有一千至一万处。基于此，人们对之进行了计算，并得出各种大脑活动的组合总量超过了宇宙中基本粒子的数量。
en:And this is truly the most amazing thing in the world.It&#39;s the greatest mystery confronting human beings:How does this all come about?Well, the brain, as you know, is made up of neurons.We&#39;re looking at neurons here.There are 100 billion neurons in the adult human brain.And each neuron makes something like 1,000 to 10,000 contactswith other neurons in the brain.And based on this, people have calculatedthat the number of permutations and combinations of brain activityexceeds the number of elementary particles in the universe.
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:所以，我们应该如何研究大脑？一种方法是观察那些有受过脑部损伤的人，以来研究他们行为的变迁。这是我于上次TED大会上所讲的内容。今天我将讲述一种新的方法。这种方法是将电极线置放于大脑的不同部位，以记录单个神经细胞的活动性。颇类似于窃听神经细胞在大脑内的活动。
en:So, how do you go about studying the brain?One approach is to look at patients who had lesionsin different part of the brain, and study changes in their behavior.This is what I spoke about in the last TED.Today I&#39;ll talk about a different approach,which is to put electrodes in different parts of the brain,and actually record the activity of individual nerve cells in the brain.Sort of eavesdrop on the activity of nerve cells in the brain.
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:最近，意大利帕尔马的研究人员们，亦就是里佐拉蒂与其同事们，在大脑前额叶发现了一组神经元，这组神经元被他们称作镜像神经元。此外，大脑里面还有一组神经元，称作运动神经元，也位于大脑的前半部分，这组神经元是50年前的发现。当我们要做某种运动时，这组神经元就会发射信息至相关器官。例如，假若我这样做，我向前屈伸，然后抓住一只苹果，一个运动神经元则会[向我的手]发射一组信息。假如我向前屈伸，并回拉一件物品，另外一个神经元则会发射另一组信息以控制我的行动。很早以前，这些运动神经元就被发现了。
en:Now, one recent discovery that has been madeby researchers in Italy, in Parma,by Giacomo Rizzolatti and his colleagues,is a group of neurons called mirror neurons,which are on the front of the brain in the frontal lobes.Now, it turns out there are neuronswhich are called ordinary motor command neurons in the front of the brain,which have been known for over 50 years.These neurons will fire when a person performs a specific action.For example, if I do that, and reach and grab an apple,a motor command neuron in the front of my brain will fire.If I reach out and pull an object, another neuron will fire,commanding me to pull that object.These are called motor command neurons that have been known for a long time.
时间： 1:59
zh-cn:不过，里佐拉蒂他们发现这组神经元中包含着另外一组神经元，大约百分之二十左右。这些神经元是会当我观看他人行动时，发出与此行动一样的信息。所以，当我向前抓住某物件时，有个神经元会发出相关信息，可是若我观看乔做相同的动作时，另一个神经元也会发出相关信息。这实在是令人震惊。因为这表明，神经元也会采纳别人的观点。几乎就是模仿了他人的动作，有如虚拟现实仿真。
en:But what Rizzolatti found wasa subset of these neurons,maybe about 20 percent of them, will also firewhen I&#39;m looking at somebody else performing the same action.So, here is a neuron that fires when I reach and grab something,but it also fires when I watch Joe reaching and grabbing something.And this is truly astonishing.Because it&#39;s as though this neuron is adoptingthe other person&#39;s point of view.It&#39;s almost as though it&#39;s performing a virtual reality simulationof the other person&#39;s action.
时间： 2:26
zh-cn:那么，这些镜像神经元有何存在意义呢？这里我必须引入模仿和仿真的概念。假使我们要模仿一种复杂的行为，那么我们的大脑则需要采纳他人的行为观点。因此模仿和仿真是非常重要的。好了，它们为什么重要呢？让我们看看下一张幻灯片。你怎样进行模仿？模仿为什么重要？镜像神经元，模仿和仿真。
en:Now, what is the significance of these mirror neurons?For one thing they must be involved in things like imitation and emulation.Because to imitate a complex actrequires my brain to adopt the other person&#39;s point of view.So, this is important for imitation and emulation.Well, why is that important?Well, let&#39;s take a look at the next slide.So, how do you do imitation? Why is imitation important?Mirror neurons and imitation, emulation.
时间： 2:50
zh-cn:现在，让我们从人类文化方面入手。让我们回到七万五千年至十万年前时，我们来观测下人类进化的过程，结果发现于七万五千年前左右，一件重大事件影响了人类的发展。那就是，各种独特的“人类”技巧突然出现以及迅速传播。这些技巧包括工具的使用、火的使用、房屋的出现和语言交流，以及读取他人心思的能力和理解他人的行为。这一切都相对地较快发生。
en:Now, let&#39;s look at culture, the phenomenon of human culture.If you go back in time about [75,000] to 100,000 years ago,let&#39;s look at human evolution, it turns outthat something very important happened around 75,000 years ago.And that is, there is a sudden emergence and rapid spreadof a number of skills that are unique to human beingslike tool use,the use of fire, the use of shelters, and, of course, language,and the ability to read somebody else&#39;s mindand interpret that person&#39;s behavior.All of that happened relatively quickly.
时间： 3:19
zh-cn:原始人类的大脑形状大约于四至五十万年前就已经发育至今人的形状，不过这些事件则是十万年前才快速地发生。我认为这些事件的产生是源于先进的镜像神经元系统的突然浮现，这些神经元将允许你模仿他人的行为所以当氏族的某一成员偶然发现，火的使用，或者某种工具的使用，这种方法将会迅速传播而非凋零消亡，这种方法将会横向传播于氏族中，或者代代纵向传播。
en:Even though the human brain had achieved its present sizealmost three or four hundred thousand years ago,100,000 years ago all of this happened very, very quickly.And I claim that what happened wasthe sudden emergence of a sophisticated mirror neuron system,which allowed you to emulate and imitate other people&#39;s actions.So that when there was a sudden accidental discoveryby one member of the group, say the use of fire,or a particular type of tool, instead of dying out,this spread rapidly, horizontally across the population,or was transmitted vertically, down the generations.
时间： 3:49
zh-cn:所以，这是一种拉马克式进化，而非达尔文式。达尔文式进化是异乎缓慢的，它大概需要几千年的时间来产生效用。若要使一只北极熊进化出一件外衣，则需要他们经过数千代的传承，或许需要十万年方能得出外衣。一个人类小孩，则仅需观看他的父母如何屠杀另一只北极熊，将其剥皮拆骨，用来制造外衣。小孩因此可以快速掌握这一技能。北极熊需要十万年才得以进化出外衣，人类小孩仅仅要五分钟或者十分钟就学会了。当他们学会之后，这项技能将以燎原之势散播于他们的氏族当中。
en:So, this made evolution suddenly Lamarckian,instead of Darwinian.Darwinian evolution is slow; it takes hundreds of thousands of years.A polar bear, to evolve a coat,will take thousands of generations, maybe 100,000 years.A human being, a child, can just watch its parentkill another polar bear,and skin it and put the skin on its body, fur on the body,and learn it in one step. What the polar beartook 100,000 years to learn,it can learn in five minutes, maybe 10 minutes.And then once it&#39;s learned this it spreadsin geometric proportion across a population.
时间： 4:22
zh-cn:这就是本源。文化就是模仿复杂的行为活动，而文明则产于此。现在我将讲到另外一种镜像神经元，担负另外的功能。有些镜像神经元只管活动，另外一些则管触觉。换句话来说，假如某人触碰了我，我的手，位于躯体感觉皮层的神经元将会发出一组信息。但同一个神经元，在某些情况下，当我观看他人被触碰时，也会发出信息。注意，我是说他人被触碰。
en:This is the basis. The imitation of complex skillsis what we call culture and is the basis of civilization.Now there is another kind of mirror neuron,which is involved in something quite different.And that is, there are mirror neurons,just as there are mirror neurons for action, there are mirror neurons for touch.In other words, if somebody touches me,my hand, neuron in the somatosensory cortexin the sensory region of the brain fires.But the same neuron, in some cases, will firewhen I simply watch another person being touched.So, it&#39;s empathizing the other person being touched.
时间： 4:51
zh-cn:大多数的神经元都会于我被触碰时发出信息。不同的神经元负责不同的身体区域。偏偏有小部分的神经元在我观看他人被触碰时也会发出相同的信息。因此，这里又有一群神经元参与进了你与他人之间的共鸣。不过问题是：假如我只观看他人被触碰，那么为什么我不会有那种被触碰的感觉呢？我与那人产生共鸣，但我并未产生触碰感。那是因为我们皮肤上有感受器，一种痛感受器，它会向大脑反馈道：“切莫担心，你还未被触碰呢。注意，是另外一个人被触碰呢，而不是我们自己呀。要不我们自己则会搞混呢。”
en:So, most of them will fire when I&#39;m touchedin different locations. Different neurons for different locations.But a subset of them will fire even when I watch somebody elsebeing touched in the same location.So, here again you have neuronswhich are enrolled in empathy.Now, the question then arises: If I simply watch another person being touched,why do I not get confused and literally feel that touch sensationmerely by watching somebody being touched?I mean, I empathize with that person but I don&#39;t literally feel the touch.Well, that&#39;s because you&#39;ve got receptors in your skin,touch and pain receptors, going back into your brainand saying &quot;Don&#39;t worry, you&#39;re not being touched.So, empathize, by all means, with the other person,but do not actually experience the touch,otherwise you&#39;ll get confused and muddled.&quot;
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:所以，这里会有一种反馈信号以阻止镜像神经元所发出的信号，从而使你避免感觉到那股错误的触碰感。然而，当你移除你的手臂时，或者向你的手臂注射麻醉剂，从而麻醉臂丛神经使你无法感觉到你的手臂的时候，假如你现在观看他人手掌被触碰，你的手掌也会有被触碰的感觉。换句话说，你将你与他人之间的隔膜溶解了。因此，我称他们为甘地神经元，或者是共鸣神经元。(笑声)
en:Okay, so there is a feedback signalthat vetoes the signal of the mirror neuronpreventing you from consciously experiencing that touch.But if you remove the arm, you simply anesthetize my arm,so you put an injection into my arm,anesthetize the brachial plexus, so the arm is numb,and there is no sensations coming in,if I now watch you being touched,I literally feel it in my hand.In other words, you have dissolved the barrierbetween you and other human beings.So, I call them Gandhi neurons, or empathy neurons.(Laughter)
时间： 5:59
zh-cn:这并不是种抽象的道理，将你与他人隔开的就是你的皮肤。移除你的皮肤，你将会与他人感同身受。你将你与他人之间的隔膜溶解了。这些当然就是大部分东方哲学的基础。那就是没有真实独立的自我将你与他人隔开，从而以审视这个世界，审视他人。事实上，我们与他人交结并不只是通过Facebook或是网络，而是各式各样的神经元。在这间大厅里，有一群的神经元正互相交谈着呢。你与他人的意识并没有任何真正的差异。
en:And this is not in some abstract metaphorical sense.All that&#39;s separating you from him,from the other person, is your skin.Remove the skin, you experience that person&#39;s touch in your mind.You&#39;ve dissolved the barrier between you and other human beings.And this, of course, is the basis of much of Eastern philosophy,and that is there is no real independent self,aloof from other human beings, inspecting the world,inspecting other people.You are, in fact, connected not just via Facebook and Internet,you&#39;re actually quite literally connected by your neurons.And there is whole chains of neurons around this room, talking to each other.And there is no real distinctivenessof your consciousness from somebody else&#39;s consciousness.
时间： 6:35
zh-cn:这并不是晦涩难懂的哲学。这是由基础神经学所引申出来的。当你接诊一位有幻肢的病人时，幻肢即是截肢或残废的患者仍感到自己有该肢体的存在，当他观察他人被触碰时，他也会有此感。令人震惊的是，当你患有幻肢痛时，你对他人的手掌进行按摩时，你的疼痛感便会减轻。这是因为你的神经元正获取他人被按摩时所获得的舒适感。
en:And this is not mumbo-jumbo philosophy.It emerges from our understanding of basic neuroscience.So, you have a patient with a phantom limb. If the arm has been removedand you have a phantom, and you watch somebody elsebeing touched, you feel it in your phantom.Now the astonishing thing is,if you have pain in your phantom limb, you squeeze the other person&#39;s hand,massage the other person&#39;s hand,that relieves the pain in your phantom hand,almost as though the neuronwere obtaining relief from merelywatching somebody else being massaged.
时间： 7:02
zh-cn:这是我最后一张幻灯片。长期以来，人们都将科学与人文学科分开，C.P.斯诺指出两种文化：一种是科学，一种是人文；将永不相见。而我则认为镜像神经元系统将再次引起一场思潮，将使你重新思考什么是意识，什么代表自我，什么将你于他人区分开，什么使你与他人产生共鸣，什么使文化与文明产生，什么才是人类所独有的事物。谢谢。(鼓掌)
en:So, here you have my last slide.For the longest time people have regarded scienceand humanities as being distinct.C.P. Snow spoke of the two cultures:science on the one hand, humanities on the other;never the twain shall meet.So, I&#39;m saying the mirror neuron system underlies the interfaceallowing you to rethink about issues like consciousness,representation of self,what separates you from other human beings,what allows you to empathize with other human beings,and also even things like the emergence of culture and civilization,which is unique to human beings. Thank you.(Applause)
