时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我想把这首歌献给所有的南非女性——那些拒绝在种族隔离的暴力前低头的女性当然，同时，这首歌也要献给我的奶奶她在我的生命中扮演了许多重要的角色尤其是在我作为激进分子而被警察骚扰的那段时期
en:I’d like to dedicate this one to all the women in South Africa —those women who refused to dwindle in the midst of apartheid.And, of course, I’m dedicating it also to my grandmother,whom I think really played quite a lot of important roles,especially for me when I was an activist, and being harassed by the police.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:你们大概都记得在1976年6月16号，南非的学生联合抵制公用荷兰语被镇压者作为媒介而强制使用他们要求学生们必须使用公用荷兰语来学习所有课程如生物，数学——那我们自己的语言如何生存呢？于是学生们想要和政府对话但警察却以子弹来回应因此，后来每年的6月16号，我们都会纪念那些在运动中牺牲的学生那时我还很小，大概才11岁正是开始对各种问题感到好奇的时候而我的政治教育也从那时开始后来，我加入了非洲国民大会的青年团作为组织纪念活动的一份子警察常常会来围捕我们他们把我们叫做“领头人”我那时常常离家为躲避警察的逮捕他们常在6月的9号或10号来一次，我的奶奶说听着，这次你不要走这是你的家，你就在这里那晚，警察果然又来了。因为他们总是任意地逮捕我们把我们关进监狱，然后大概在6月20号以后由着自己的意愿释放
en:You will recall that in 1976, June 16, the students of South Africa boycottedthe language of Afrikaans as the medium of the oppressor,as they were sort of like really toldthat they must do everything in Afrikaans —biology, mathematics — and what about our languages?And the students wanted to speak to the government,and police answered with bullets.So every year, June 16, we will commemorateall those comrades or students who died.And I was very young then. I think I was 11 years,and I started asking questions,and that’s when my political education started.And I joined, later on, the youth organizationunder the African National Congress.So as part of organizing this and whatever,this commemoration, the police will round us upas they call us leaders.And I used to run away from home,when I know that maybe the police might be comingaround the ninth or 10th of June or so.And my grandmother one time said,&quot;No, look, you’re not going to run away.This is your place, you stay here.&quot;And indeed, the police came — because they’ll just arrest usand put us in jail and release us whenever they feel like, after the 20th or so.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:那晚是6月10号，警察们来了，包围我家奶奶关掉所有的灯然后打开厨门她对他们说：“乌瑟今晚在家，不过你们别想把他带走我实在厌倦了你们跑到这里来骚扰我们而你们的孩子却在家里安睡他今晚在这里，但你们休想逮捕他我已准备好满满一大盆滚烫开水，谁先进屋，我就泼给谁。”那晚他们灰溜溜地离开了掌声
en:So it was on the 10th of June, and they came, and they surrounded the house,and my grandmother switched off all the lights in the house,and opened the kitchen door.And she said to them, &quot;Vusi&#39;s here, and you&#39;re not going to take him tonight.I&#39;m tired of you having to come here, harassing us,while your children are sleeping peacefully in your homes.He is here, and you&#39;re not going to take him.I&#39;ve got a bowl full of boiling water — the first one who comes in here, gets it.&quot;And they left.(Applause) (Music)
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:图拉妈妈，图拉妈妈，图拉妈妈，图拉妈妈你泪水模糊的双眼让我想起我的童年我知道你微笑的真正意味我知道你微笑的真正意味穿透我无知的迷雾噢，亲爱的妈妈正在熟睡你身体欠佳，你的心在哭泣担心着，担心着，担心着，担心着，担心着这个世界究竟会变成什么样我们怎么忍心让孩子都去独自谋生？不，不，不……我们怎忍心去找老妇人的麻烦？普通百姓是如此的无辜图拉妈妈，图拉妈妈，图拉妈妈，图拉妈妈图拉妈妈，图拉妈妈，图拉妈妈，图拉妈妈明天将会变得更好明天我们的奋斗将会更容易图拉妈妈，图拉妈妈
en:♫ Thula Mama, Thula Mama, Thula Mama, Thula Mama. ♫♫ Through the mist of the tears in your eyes on my childhood memory, ♫♫ I know the truth in your smile, ♫♫ I know the truth in your smile, ♫♫ piercing through the gloom of my ignorance. ♫♫ Oh, there is a mama lying down sleeping ♫♫ you&#39;re very ill and your heart crying. ♫♫ Wondering, wondering, wondering, wondering where is this world coming to. ♫♫ Is it right the children have to fend for themselves? No, no, no, no, no. no. ♫♫ Is it right heaping trouble on an old lady&#39;s head? ♫♫ So unlucky faceless people. ♫♫ Thula Mama Mama, Thula Mama. Thula Mama Mama. ♫♫ Thula Mama, Thula Mama, Thula Mama Mama, Thula Mama ♫♫ Tomorrow it’s going to be better. ♫♫ Tomorrow it&#39;s going to be better to climb, Mama. ♫♫ Thula Mama, Thula Mama. ♫
时间： 5:32
zh-cn:我开始像蓝调歌手或游吟诗人一样歌唱然而能让我歌唱的蓝调酒吧却难以寻觅宝贝，宝贝，宝贝……是否我应该停止对爱的歌颂当我的记忆已被鲜血淹没？姐妹们，为什么我们有时把粉刺误认为癌症?是谁在那里叹息再也没有歌颂爱的诗歌？
en:♫ Am I to break into the song like the blues man or troubadour. ♫♫ And then from long distance in no blues club am I to sing, ♫♫ baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby. ♫♫ Should I now stop singing of love, ♫♫ now that my memory’s surrounded by blood? ♫♫ Sister, why oh why do we at times mistake a pimple for a cancer? ♫♫ So who are they who says, no more love poems now? ♫
时间： 6:28
zh-cn:我想唱一首歌颂爱的歌献给那些怀着身孕仍从栅栏跳下的妇女她们仍然生出了健康的孩子缓缓地我步入笑容的光辉中这辉煌点亮了我对爱，对生命的歌颂歌颂爱，歌颂生命，歌颂爱歌颂生命，歌颂爱，歌颂生命喔，我从不曾停止歌唱我听到一个坚定的声音，比敌人的炸弹更有力那是沐浴我们灵魂，净化我们血液的歌
en:♫ I want to sing a song of love ♫♫ for that woman who jumped the fences pregnant ♫♫ and still gave birth to a healthy child. ♫♫ Softly I walk into the sun rays of the smile ♫♫ that will ignite my love song, my song of life, ♫♫ my song of love, my song of life, my song of love, ♫♫ my song of life, my song of love, my song of life. ♫♫ Ooh, I’ve not tried to run away from song, ♫♫ I hear a persistent voice, more powerful than the enemy bombs. ♫♫ The song that washed our lives and the rains of our blood. ♫
时间： 8:03
zh-cn:歌颂爱，歌颂生命，歌颂爱歌颂生命，歌颂爱歌颂生命，歌颂爱——大家跟我唱歌颂生命，歌颂爱，歌颂生命——大家跟我一起唱歌颂生命，歌颂爱——大声点歌颂爱，歌颂生命——再大声一点歌颂生命，歌颂爱——不要停，不要停歌颂爱，歌颂生命，对，歌颂爱请大家再大声一点歌颂生命，对，歌颂爱，歌颂生命，歌颂爱不要停，不要停，不要停——歌颂爱啊，好样的。歌颂——爱，歌颂生命。唱。歌颂爱，歌颂生命歌颂爱，歌颂生命。唱。歌颂爱，歌颂生命。唱歌颂爱，歌颂生命。唱。歌颂爱，歌颂生命歌颂爱，歌颂生命掌声
en:♫ My song of love and my song of life, my song of love, ♫♫ my song of life, my song of love, ♫♫ my song of life, my song of love — I want everybody to sing with me — ♫♫ my song of life, my song of love, my song of life — everybody sing with me — ♫♫ my song of life, my song of love — I can’t hear you — ♫♫ my song of love, my song of life — you can do better — ♫♫ my song of life, my song of love — keep singing, keep singing — ♫♫ my song of love, my song of life, yes, my song of love — ♫♫ you can do better than that — ♫♫ my song of life, yes, my song of love, my song of life, my song of love — ♫♫ keep singing, keep singing, keep singing — my song of love. ♫♫ Oh yeah. My song of — a love song, my song of life. Sing. A love song, my song of life. Sing. ♫♫ Love song, my song of life. Sing. Love song, my song of life. Sing. ♫♫ Love song, my song of life. Sing. Love song, my song of life. ♫♫ Love song, my song of life. ♫(Applause)
