时间： 0:11
zh-cn:文化来自想象。这些想象当人类一代一代传承时这些想象逐渐形成，从直立行走的猿人，人类就带着意识，开始了把意识带到所居住的每一个角落的旅程。那些曾经居住在这片土地的遥远的尼安德特人（穴居人）就拥有意识的火花但是，或许是因为脑容量的增加或者是语言的发展或者是因为其他进化的原因我们迅速地脱离了为生存而挣扎的尼安德特人。自从尼安德特人在欧洲大陆消失于两万七千年前，我们的直系祖先已经开始持续五千年的在土地上的耕作在牛油灯下他们开创了旧石器时代的伟大艺术。
en:You know, culture was born of the imagination,and the imagination — the imagination as we know it —came into being when our species descendedfrom our progenitor, Homo erectus,and, infused with consciousness, began a journey that would carry itto every corner of the habitable world.For a time, we shared the stage with our distant cousins, Neanderthal,who clearly had some spark of awareness,but — whether it was the increase in the size of the brain,or the development of language,or some other evolutionary catalyst —we quickly left Neanderthal gasping for survival.By the time the last Neanderthal disappeared in Europe,27,000 years ago,our direct ancestors had already,and for 5,000 years,been crawling into the belly of the earth,where in the light of the flickers of tallow candles,they had brought into beingthe great art of the Upper Paleolithic.
时间： 1:04
zh-cn:我在法国西南部的洞穴里居住了两个月与诗人克莱顿•埃什尔曼一起，他写过一本优美的书《Juniper Fuse》你可以读一读这本书，并且，你一定会发现复杂的社会组织以及创造这种组织的人们。更重要的是，它表达出了一种深层次的渴望，比狩猎艺术更为复杂。克莱顿这样描述它他说：“我们知道，在某种程度上，我们本质上都是动物，但是有些时候我们又不是。”他把萨满教视为一种初始的尝试，通过仪式，去恢复一种联系这种联系已经无可挽回地丧失了。所以他并不把这壁画视为对狩猎艺术的描绘，而是对往昔的追忆。从这种角度看，这就呈现为另外一种完全不同的反思。
en:And I spent two months in the caves of southwest Francewith the poet Clayton Eshleman, who wrote a beautiful book called &quot;Juniper Fuse.&quot;And you could look at this art and you could, of course,see the complex social organizationof the people who brought it into being.But more importantly, it spoke of a deeper yearning,something far more sophisticated than hunting magic.And the way Clayton put it was this way.He said, &quot;You know, clearly at some point,we were all of an animal nature, and at some point, we weren&#39;t.&quot;And he viewed proto-shamanism as a kind of original attempt,through ritual, to rekindle a connectionthat had been irrevocably lost.So, he saw this art not ashunting magic, but as postcards of nostalgia.And viewed in that light,it takes on a whole other resonance.
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:旧石器时代上层艺术中最不可思议的是，作为一种美学表现形式，壁画存在了两万年。如果是追忆往昔的话，我们追忆的过去距离现在非常遥远。并且，这是人类不满的开始，因为当你想获得人类的经验自从旧石器时代，可以得到两个词：怎么样以及为什么。这两个词汇锻造着人类的文化。现在，所有的人有着相同的原始的、适应生存的欲求。我们都有孩子，我们必须面对神秘的死亡，以及死后将要进入的世界，面对那些沉浸在以往生活中的年长的人们。这些都是我们拥有的相同的经历，并不使我们感到惊奇，因为毕竟，生物学家最终证明了这些都是真的，那些哲学家一直梦想其为真的：那就是，我们所有人都是兄弟姐妹的事实。我们有着相同的基因。所有的人，或许都是那一千个人的后代，那些人在7万年前离开了非洲。
en:And the most amazing thing about the Upper Paleolithic artis that as an aesthetic expression,it lasted for almost 20,000 years.If these were postcards of nostalgia,ours was a very long farewell indeed.And it was also the beginning of our discontent,because if you wanted to distill all of our experiencesince the Paleolithic, it would come down to two words:how and why.And these are the slivers of insight upon which cultures have been forged.Now, all people share the sameraw, adaptive imperatives.We all have children.We all have to deal with the mystery of death,the world that waits beyond death,the elders who fall away into their elderly years.All of this is part of our common experience,and this shouldn&#39;t surprise us, because, after all,biologists have finally proven it to be true,something that philosophers have always dreamt to be true.And that is the fact that we are all brothers and sisters.We are all cut from the same genetic cloth.All of humanity, probably, is descended from a thousand peoplewho left Africa roughly 70,000 years ago.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:由此必然得来的推论是，如果我们是兄弟姐妹，且拥有相同的基因，所有的人类都拥有相同的、原始的人类天赋，相同的智力水平，并且，无论这些天赋是否被应用于——技术这个西方世界最大的成就——或者相反，应用于理解复杂的神话中寓意，仅仅是一种简单选择和文化定位。没有突破性的事件，在人类的经验领域。没有已经铺就好的前进的轨道。没有传统地把维多利亚时期的英国文明作为顶峰，把其他的视为所谓的原始世界的金字塔。所有的人类都是文化选择的结果，是对生活的不同理解。但是我所说的不同的视角造就了完全不同的生活的可能性指的是什么呢？
en:But the corollary of that is that,if we all are brothers and sistersand share the same genetic material,all human populations share the same raw human genius,the same intellectual acuity.And so whether that genius is placedinto — technological wizardryhas been the great achievement of the West —or by contrast, into unraveling the complex threadsof memory inherent in a myth,is simply a matter of choice and cultural orientation.There is no progression of affairsin human experience.There is no trajectory of progress. There&#39;s no pyramidthat conveniently places Victorian England at the apexand descends down the flanksto the so-called primitives of the world.All peoples are simply cultural options,different visions of life itself.But what do I mean by different visions of lifemaking for completely differentpossibilities for existence?
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:现在，让我们回头看一眼最伟大的文化是人类所能想象的最伟大的，来自旧石器时代的文化。1万平方公里，成千上万的小岛像被散扔在南部海上的珠宝。我最近在Hokulea航行，Hokulea取名自神圣的夏威夷星，穿越南太平洋拍摄一部关于航海者的电影。那里的男男女女，即使到今天，仍然能够说出夜晚中超过250颗星星的名字。这些人能够感知到那些不在视野范围内、遥远珊瑚礁的存在，仅仅通过观察拍打船壁的波浪的反射形状，他们清楚地知道太平洋上每个岛屿群都有着不一样的反射模式，通过洞察力就像法医能够解读指纹那样。这些水手在黑暗中，在船里，就能够及时分辨多达32种在任何时刻流过船体的海水的涨落，分辨本地海上的风浪，通过观察振动整个海洋的水流这对于他们非常轻松，就像地址学家追踪水流入海。确实，如果你把所有把人类送上月球的智慧都用于理解海洋，那你就会发现他们都是波利尼西亚人。
en:Well, let&#39;s slip for a moment into the greatest culture sphereever brought into being by the imagination,that of Polynesia.10,000 square kilometers,tens of thousands of islands flung like jewels upon the southern sea.I recently sailed on the Hokulea,named after the sacred star of Hawaii,throughout the South Pacific to make a filmabout the navigators.These are men and women who, even today, can name250 stars in the night sky.These are men and women who can sense the presence of distant atollsof islands beyond the visible horizon,simply by watching the reverberation of wavesacross the hull of their vessel, knowing full wellthat every island group in the Pacifichas its unique refractive patternthat can be read with the same perspicacitywith which a forensic scientist would read a fingerprint.These are sailors who in the darkness, in the hull of the vessel,can distinguish as many as 32 different sea swellsmoving through the canoe at any one point in time,distinguishing local wave disturbancesfrom the great currents that pulsate across the ocean,that can be followed with the same easethat a terrestrial explorer would follow a river to the sea.Indeed, if you took all of the geniusthat allowed us to put a man on the moonand applied it to an understanding of the ocean,what you would get is Polynesia.
时间： 4:46
zh-cn:如果我们把视野从海上转往想象的精神，你就进入了西藏佛教的领域。我最近拍摄了一部名为“心灵的佛教科学”电影。为什么我们采用“科学”一词？如果追究真理的实践都不被称为科学，那科学还是什么？佛教就是两千五百年来对对心灵本质进行观察的经验结果。我与我的好朋友，马修•李卡得在尼泊尔旅行了一个月，或许你还记得马修曾给我们做过一个讲座，在TED。“西方科学是对小需求的大反应。”我们花费一生的时间尽力保证牙齿不掉，活到100岁。佛教徒花费一生的时间极力去理解存在的本质。
en:And if we slip from the realm of the seainto the realm of the spirit of the imagination,you enter the realm of Tibetan Buddhism.And I recently made a film called &quot;The Buddhist Science of the Mind.&quot;Why did we use that word, science?What is science but the empirical pursuit of the truth?What is Buddhism but 2,500 yearsof empirical observationas to the nature of mind?I travelled for a month in Nepal with our good friend, Matthieu Ricard,and you&#39;ll remember Matthieu famously said to all of ushere once at TED,&quot;Western science is a major response to minor needs.&quot;We spend all of our lifetime trying to live to be 100without losing our teeth.The Buddhist spends all their lifetime trying to understand the nature of existence.
时间： 5:24
zh-cn:我们宣传的是庆祝给赤裸的孩子穿上衣裤。他们宣传的是手册，为众生的幸福祈祷。带着，第十四代达赖喇嘛Trulshik Rinpoche的祝福，我们开始了前往好奇之地的朝圣之旅，和我们同行的还有一个医生。目的地是尼姑庵中的一个小房间在那里有一位终身隐居的女士，55年前就开始了隐居。沾了Rinpoche的光，他坐在我们身边，告诉我们四大真理，佛教徒之路的精髓。生命即苦难。这并不代表我们就可以否定生命。它的意思是事事皆可能发生。苦难的根源在于无知。通过这句话，佛并不是愚蠢。他坚守这样的信念，即生活是静止的、可预测的。第三个真理是无知是能够被克服的。第四个也是最重要的，当然，是对冥想做法的描述，冥想带来人类心灵的升华不仅仅是一种可能，已经有两千五百年的经验证据，表明升华是注定的。
en:Our billboards celebrate naked children in underwear.Their billboards are manuals,prayers to the well-being of all sentient creatures.And with the blessing of Trulshik Rinpoche, we began a pilgrimageto a curious destination,accompanied by a great doctor.And the destination was a single room in a nunnery,where a woman had gone into lifelong retreat55 years before.And en route, we took darshan from Rinpoche,and he sat with us and told us about the Four Noble Truths,the essence of the Buddhist path.All life is suffering. That doesn&#39;t mean all life is negative.It means things happen.The cause of suffering is ignorance.By that, the Buddha did not mean stupidity;he meant clinging to the illusionthat life is static and predictable.The third noble truth said that ignorance can be overcome.And the fourth and most important, of course,was the delineation of a contemplative practicethat not only had the possibilityof a transformation of the human heart,but had 2,500 years of empirical evidencethat such a transformation was a certainty.
时间： 6:22
zh-cn:所以当门打开，看到那个女人，那个55年都没有出门的人，你并没有看到一个疯子。你看到了一个比山间清泉更澄澈的人。事实上，藏族和尚告诉我们：他们说，有时，正如你们所知，我们也不信人类到达了月球，但是事实就是如此。你或许并不相信一辈子可以到达开悟的境界，但是事实就是如此。让我们从精神领域转到生理领域，到神圣的秘鲁地界。我时常对当地人的关系感兴趣，他们真的相信土地是活的，能够对他们的渴望，他们的需求做出回应。当然，人类有着繁衍后代的责任。
en:And so, when this door opened onto the face of a womanwho had not been out of that room in 55 years,you did not see a mad woman.You saw a woman who was more clearthan a pool of water in a mountain stream.And of course, this is what the Tibetan monks told us.They said, at one point, you know, we don&#39;t really believeyou went to the moon, but you did.You may not believe that we achieve enlightenmentin one lifetime, but we do.And if we move from the realm of the spiritto the realm of the physical,to the sacred geography of Peru —I&#39;ve always been interested in the relationships of indigenous peoplethat literally believe that the Earth is alive,responsive to all of their aspirations,all of their needs.And, of course, the human populationhas its own reciprocal obligations.
时间： 7:07
zh-cn:我曾经花了30年时间生活在Chincherro族人中，我时常听说一种我一直期待能够参与的仪式。每年，跑的最快的年轻男子每村，都被给予成为女人的荣耀。那一天，他可以穿上姐姐或妹妹的衣服，成为一个异装者，一个“waylaka”。并且，那天，他带领所有健壮的男子奔跑，但是这不是惯常的跑步。在11500高英尺的地方开始奔跑，跑到圣山Antkilka的山脚下，然后再爬上15000英尺，下去3000英尺，在24小时之内再次往上爬。当然，Waylakamaspin，也就是这一线路，是以地球上的圣山为标志的可可献给大地，美酒献给为风，女性的旋风被带到山顶，寓意很明显：你独自一人如山，历经疲倦，历经牺牲，你最终成为集体的一员再一次确认了存在于地球的意义。在48岁的年纪，我是唯一一个跑完全程的外来者，唯一跑完的一个。我在那一天咀嚼了多于4000年以来任何人一天吃的更多的可可叶才能够跑完的。
en:I spent 30 years living amongstthe people of Chincheroand I always heard about an event that I always wanted to participate in.Once each year, the fastest young boyin each hamlet is given the honor of becoming a woman.And for one day, he wears the clothing of his sisterand he becomes a transvestite,a waylaka. And for that day,he leads all able-bodied men on a run,but it&#39;s not your ordinary run.You start off at 11,500 feet.You run down to the base of the sacred mountain, Antakillqa.You run up to 15,000 feet,descend 3,000 feet.Climb again over the course of 24 hours.And of course, the waylakama spin,the trajectory of the route,is marked by holy mounds of Earth,where coke is given to the Earth, libations of alcohol to the wind,the vortex of the feminine is brought to the mountaintop.And the metaphor is clear: you go into the mountain as an individual,but through exhaustion, through sacrifice,you emerge as a community that has once againreaffirmed its sense of place in the planet.And at 48, I was the only outsider ever to go through this,only one to finish it.I only managed to do it by chewing more coca leaves in one daythan anyone in the 4,000-year history of the plant.
时间： 8:18
zh-cn:这种区域性的仪式变成了整个安第斯山的传统，这些极好的节日，像Qoyllur Rit&#39;i的节日，当昴宿星出现在冬日的天空时，就像安第斯山的伍德斯托克音乐节：6万印第安那原著民踏上土地走往名叫“ Sinakara”的圣村，这个圣村有3种说法，关于冰山。寓意也很明显。你从你的群体中带来十字架，在这个融合基督精神和前哥伦比亚思想的地方。你把十字架放入冰河中在Ausangate的阴影中，所有Apus中最神圣的，或者说Inca最神圣的山。之后，你跳起为十字架赋予力量的宗教舞蹈。
en:But these localized rituals become pan-Andean,and these fantastic festivals,like that of the Qoyllur Rit&#39;i, which occurswhen the Pleiades reappear in the winter sky.It&#39;s kind of like an Andean Woodstock:60,000 Indians on pilgrimageto the end of a dirt roadthat leads to the sacred valley, called the Sinakara,which is dominated by three tonguesof the great glacier.The metaphor is so clear. You bring the crosses from your community,in this wonderful fusion of Christianand pre-Columbian ideas.You place the cross into the ice,in the shadow of Ausangate, the most sacred of all Apus,or sacred mountains of the Inca.And then you do the ritual dances that empower the crosses.
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:现在，这些思想和事件允许我们得以重构这些象征性的地方像你们很多人去过的马丘比丘。马丘比丘并不是一个失落之城。相反，它完全与印加人在最近一个世纪修的一万四千公里圣道相联系。更重要的是，它与安第斯山所谓的神圣地理相联系。Intiwatana，挽留太阳的地方，事实上一座持续反射光线的方尖石塔坐落在神圣的马丘比丘的Apu，是座圆锥形的山，叫做Huayna Picchu。当你到达 Intiwatana南部时，你会发现一个圣坛。爬上Huayna Picchu，你会发现另外一个圣坛。向正南-北的方向看，你会惊奇地发现，它把Intiwatana一分为二，一直延伸到天际线，到达Salcantay山的正中心，Salcantay是第二座最重要的山印加帝国中，过了Salcantay山，当然，当到达天际的最南端，你会发现银河就在头顶，呈现相同的布局。包围马丘比丘的是：圣河，乌鲁班巴，或叫Vilcanota，与银河一样古老，这也是Viracocha走过的道路在他创造宇宙那天的傍晚。这条河的起源在哪里？正在Koiariti的斜坡上。
en:Now, these ideas and these eventsallow us even to deconstruct iconic placesthat many of you have been to, like Machu Picchu.Machu Picchu was never a lost city.On the contrary, it was completely linked into the 14,000 kilometers of royal roadsthe Inca made in less than a century.But more importantly, it was linked into the Andean notions of sacred geography.The intiwatana, the hitching post to the sun,is actually an obelisk that constantly reflects the lightthat falls on the sacred Apu of Machu Picchu,which is Sugarloaf Mountain, called Huayna Picchu.If you come to the south of the intiwatana, you find an altar.Climb Huayna Picchu, find another altar.Take a direct north-south bearing,you find to your astonishmentthat it bisects the intiwatana stone,goes to the skyline,hits the heart of Salcantay, the second of the most important mountainsof the Incan empire.And then beyond Salcantay, of course,when the southern cross reaches the southernmost point in the sky,directly in that same alignment, the Milky Way overhead.But what is enveloping Machu Picchu from below?The sacred river, the Urubamba, or the Vilcanota,which is itself the Earthly equivalent of the Milky Way,but it&#39;s also the trajectory that Viracocha walkedat the dawn of time when he brought the universe into being.And where does the river rise?Right on the slopes of the Koariti.
时间：10:16
zh-cn:所以在哥伦布发现新大陆的五百年之后，这些古老的对大自然的赞美之歌在仪式中得以体现。在我第一次到TED时，我展示了这张照片——兄弟俩的照片，理想黄金国（Eldorado）的幸存者，子孙。他们，当然是后裔是古老的荣泰纳（Tairona）文化的后继者。如果你们中有人还记得我提到过的他们仍然被仪式祭司管束，但是训练成为祭司是很特别的。从家里面被带出来，躲避在黑暗的地方长达18年——特意挑选两个九年来唤起在母亲子宫中度过的九个月。在那时，整个世界就是抽象的，此时，他们被教导以他们社会的价值规范。那种价值观让他们相信他们的祈祷本身就可以维系宇宙的平衡。现今，对社会的衡量已经不仅如此，还包括它有什么美好的渴望。
en:So, 500 years after Columbus,these ancient rhythms of landscapeare played out in ritual.Now, when I was here at the first TED,I showed this photograph: two men of the Elder Brothers,the descendants, survivors of El Dorado.These, of course, are the descendantsof the ancient Tairona civilization.If those of you who are here remember that I mentionedthat they remain ruled by a ritual priesthood,but the training for the priesthood is extraordinary.Taken from their families, sequestered in a shadowy world of darknessfor 18 years — two nine-year periods deliberately chosento evoke the nine months they spend in the natural mother&#39;s womb.All that time, the world only exists as an abstraction,as they are taught the values of their society.Values that maintain the proposition that their prayers,and their prayers alone, maintain the cosmic balance.Now, the measure of a society is not only what it does,but the quality of its aspirations.
时间：11:10
zh-cn:我时常想回到那些山里，去看这是否是真的，就像伟大的人类学家，雷赫尔•多尔马托夫报道的那样。事实上两周以前，我刚回来，与兄弟们度过了六周时间这个旅程，无疑是我生命中最奇特的。他们真的是生活在、呼吸着神圣的气息，异常虔诚。他们消费的可可叶比其他民族都多，每天每个男人半英镑。你在这里能看到的是——每样事物都具有寓意。他们核心的隐喻是织布机。生活就像一个织布机，而自己就在这台机器上编织着五光十色的人生。他们将他们开发倾斜的生态壁橱的做法视为“穿线”。当他们为死去的人们祈祷时，他们就用他们的双手做出这样的姿势，将他们的思想带入天堂。
en:And I always wanted to go back into these mountains,to see if this could possibly be true,as indeed had been reported by the great anthropologist,Reichel-Dolmatoff.So, literally two weeks ago,I returned from having spent six weeks with the Elder Brotherson what was clearly the mostextraordinary trip of my life.These really are a people who live and breathethe realm of the sacred,a baroque religiosity that is simply awesome.They consume more coca leaves than any human population,half a pound per man, per day.The gourd you see here is —everything in their lives is symbolic.Their central metaphor is a loom.They say, &quot;Upon this loom, I weave my life.&quot;They refer to the movements as they exploit the ecological niches of the gradientas &quot;threads.&quot;When they pray for the dead, they make these gestures with their hands,spinning their thoughts into the heavens.
时间：12:02
zh-cn:你能够看到钙质在Poporo 瓢的顶部结晶。葫芦的外表是雌性的，梗是雄性的。当你把梗研成粉末得到神圣的粉末——它们也不是普通的粉末，它们是烧过的石灰石——能够使得可可叶具有改变嘴里PH值以帮助可卡因盐酸盐的吸收。但是当你打开一根梗，你不能轻易扔掉它，因为一旦扔掉那个梗那些用于累积钙质的梗，对一个男士生活的衡量也就被扔掉了。耕种田地的方式如此特别，以至于田地的一边就像被女性耕种过一样。另一边像被男性耕种过，你在旁边改变它，你就会得到一块布。他们是原始的泰荣纳（Tairona）文明的后裔，南美最伟大的铁匠，那些人在征战的年代，隐退到这片荒凉的火山区域比加勒比海岸的平原高出2万英尺。
en:You can see the calcium buildup on the head of the poporo gourd.The gourd is a feminine aspect; the stick is a male.You put the stick in the powderto take the sacred ashes — well, they&#39;re not ashes,they&#39;re burnt limestone —to empower the coca leaf, to changethe pH of the mouth to facilitate the absorptionof cocaine hydrochloride.But if you break a gourd, you cannot simply throw it away,because every stroke of that stickthat has built up that calcium,the measure of a man&#39;s life,has a thought behind it.Fields are planted in such an extraordinary way,that the one side of the fieldis planted like that by the women.The other side is planted like that by the men. Metaphorically,you turn it on the side, and you have a piece of cloth.And they are the descendants of the ancient Tairona civilization,the greatest goldsmiths of South America,who in the wake of the conquest,retreated into this isolated volcanic massifthat soars to 20,000 feetabove the Caribbean coastal plain.
时间：12:57
zh-cn:这里有四个社会：the Kogi, the Wiwa, the Kankuamo and the Arhuacos。我与 Arhuacos一同旅行，关于这个故事美妙的事情是这个名叫Danilo Viathanya的男人，如果我们可以在此跳回过去。当我第一次在华盛顿的哥伦比亚大使馆见到达尼洛的时候，我脱口说出，你很像我的一个老朋友。事实是他就是我朋友Aroberto的儿子，Aroberto于1974年被哥伦比亚武装力量打死，并且我说，Danilo,你肯定不记得，当你还是婴儿的时候，我把你背在背上穿越高山。正因为如此，达尼罗邀请我们去世界的正中心，一个任何记者都不被允许进入的地区。我们不仅到了山的侧翼，也到了冰雪覆盖的山顶，也就是朝圣的目的地。
en:There are four societies:the Kogi, the Wiwa, the Kankwano and the Arhuacos.I traveled with the Arhuacos,and the wonderful thing about this storywas that this man, Danilo Villafane —if we just jump back here for a second.When I first met Danilo, in the Colombian embassy in Washington,I couldn&#39;t help but say, &quot;You know,you look a lot like an old friend of mine.&quot;Well, it turns out he was the son of my friend, Adalberto,from 1974, who had been killed by the FARC.And I said, &quot;Danilo, you won&#39;t remember this,but when you were an infant, I carried you on my back,up and down the mountains.&quot;And because of that, Danilo invited usto go to the very heart of the world,a place where no journalist had ever been permitted.Not simply to the flanks of the mountains,but to the very iced peaks which are the destiny of the pilgrims.
时间：13:43
zh-cn:这个盘腿坐的男人是一个长大的 “Yuhenio”，我自从1974年就认识他了。这就是早期的加入者之一。不对，他们在黑暗中待18年的说法并不对，但是他们是被限制在男仪式主持者的圈子中长达18年。这些小孩子从没有机会走到圣地的外面圣地由男人的小屋包围着，任何时候都不准出去直到宗教旅途的开始。在整个时间里，世界被视为一种抽象的存在，他被教以社会的价值，包括这样的观念，即祈祷者独自在维持宇宙的和谐。在旅程开始之前，我们在洞穴的门口清洁干净自己。被神父带领是个很神奇的经历——你会看到神父永远不穿鞋子，因为神圣的双脚——对Mamo来说，脚与大地之间必须不能存在任何东西。这里也是伟大母亲将纺锤置于世界抬高了山脉，创造了家园他们称之为世界之心的地方。
en:And this man sitting cross-leggedis now a grown-up Eugenio,a man who I&#39;ve known since 1974.And this is one of those initiates.No, it&#39;s not true that they&#39;re kept in the darkness for 18 years,but they are kept within the confinesof the ceremonial men&#39;s circlefor 18 years.This little boy will never step outsideof the sacred fieldsthat surround the men&#39;s hut for all that time,until he begins his journey of initiation.For that entire time, the world only exists as an abstraction,as he is taught the values of society,including this notion that their prayers alonemaintain the cosmic balance.Before we could begin our journey,we had to be cleansed at the portal of the Earth.And it was extraordinary to be taken by a priest.And you see that the priest never wears shoes because holy feet —there must be nothing between the feetand the Earth for a mamo.And this is actually the place where the Great Mothersent the spindle into the worldthat elevated the mountains and created the homelandthat they call the heart of the world.
时间：14:43
zh-cn:我们爬到Potomo的高处，当我们沿着山脊攀爬时，当地人们对每个自然景色的诠释都带有强烈的宗教色彩。当然，等我们到达最终的目的地，一个叫做Mananakana的地方时，我们着实吃了一惊，因为哥伦比亚革命武装力量等着绑架我们。所以当我们最终被带到他们的洞穴，在黑暗中被藏起来。然后丢掉我们所有的工具，我们在午夜被强制赶着骑行离开，那是一个很戏剧化的场面。看起来就像导演约翰•福特拍摄的西部片。当黎明时我们遇到了哥伦比亚革命武装力量的巡逻队，所以是很惨的经历。那一定会是一部非常有趣的电影。但是更神奇的是当感到危险的那一刻，Mamos做了个占卜。
en:We traveled high into the paramo,and as we crested the hills,we realized that the men were interpretingevery single bump on the landscapein terms of their own intense religiosity.And then of course, as we reached our final destination,a place called Mamancana,we were in for a surprise,because the FARC were waiting to kidnap us.And so we ended up being taken aside into these huts,hidden away until the darkness.And then, abandoning all our gear,we were forced to ride out in the middle of the night,in a quite dramatic scene.It&#39;s going to look like a John Ford Western.And we ran into a FARC patrol at dawn, so it was quite harrowing.It will be a very interesting film. But what was fascinatingis that the minute there was a sense of dangers,the mamos went into a circle of divination.
时间：15:28
zh-cn:当然，这张照片实际上拍摄于我们躲起来的那个晚上，那时他们占卜出了带领我们出山的道路。我们能够，因为我们事前训练过人们如何拍摄电影，继续我们的工作，把我们的Wiwa和 Arhuaco 的电影制作者派到终点的圣湖去拍摄最后一个场景，我们让其他的Arhuaco回到海上，从山丘处拍摄海。现在我们就看到了神圣的景色被妓院、旅店和赌场包围着，他们仍然，祈祷。想到距离迈阿密这么近，两个小时的车程，这里有一个完整的民族为你的幸福在日日祈祷。他们自称为兄长。他们将我们这些毁坏世界的人称作弟弟。他们无法理解我们对大自然的破坏行为。
en:And of course, this is a photographliterally taken the night we were in hiding,as they divine their routeto take us out of the mountains.We were able to, because we had trainedpeople in filmmaking,continue with our work,and send our Wiwa and Arhuaco filmmakersto the final sacred lakesto get the last shots for the film,and we followed the rest of the Arhuaco back to the sea,taking the elements from the highlands to the sea.And here you see how their sacred landscapehas been covered by brothels and hotels and casinos,and yet, still they pray.And it&#39;s an amazing thing to thinkthat this close to Miami,two hours from Miami, there is an entire civilization of peoplepraying every day for your well-being.They call themselves the Elder Brothers.They dismiss the rest of us who have ruined the worldas the Younger Brothers. They cannot understandwhy it is that we do what we do to the Earth.
时间：16:23
zh-cn:现今，如果我们到世界的另一端。我在北极讲述全球变暖的故事，部分受到副总统的著作的启发。使我震惊的是再次与因纽特人在一起——这个民族的人并不惧怕寒冷反而利用它。这个民族的人发现了用想象，在冰天雪地中开创生活。这个民族的人们并不会把冰上的血滴视为死亡的标志，反而是对生活的肯定。悲惨的是，当你现在再去那些北方地区，你会吃惊地发现那些在九月份冻结起来，直到次年七月的冰，在像被格陵兰到的Kanak地区，事实上到十二月份才结冰，三月份就化掉了。所以他们的整年就被一分两半。
en:Now, if we slip to another end of the world,I was up in the high Arcticto tell a story about global warming,inspired in part bythe former Vice President&#39;s wonderful book.And what struck me so extraordinarywas to be again with the Inuit —a people who don&#39;t fear the cold, but take advantage of it.A people whofind a way, with their imagination,to carve life out of that very frozen.A people for whom blood on iceis not a sign of death, but an affirmation of life.And yet tragically, when you now go to those northern communities,you find to your astonishmentthat whereas the sea ice used to come in in Septemberand stay till July,in a place like Kanak in northern Greenland,it literally comes in now in Novemberand stays until March.So, their entire year has been cut in half.
时间：17:09
zh-cn:现在，我想强调的是，这些我快速讲述的民族，并没有消失。他们并不是垂死挣扎的人们。相反，正如你所指，如果你用心去感受，用眼睛去观察，你会发现世界并不是平的。世界仍然是色彩丰富的挂毯。它仍然像精神领域高低不平的地质。人类种种不同的声音并不是缺乏经验的失败的尝试，并不是时髦时代失败的尝试。他们是人类想象的不同方面。他们是对终极问题的别出心裁的回答：这个问题就是人是什么？活着意味着什么？当被问及这个问题是，他们有6千种不同的回答。最终，这些声音成为人类解决我们所面临的挑战的所有方法在接下来的千年中。
en:Now, I want to stress that none of these peoplesthat I&#39;ve been quickly talking about hereare disappearing worlds.These are not dying peoples.On the contrary, you know,if you have the heart to feel and the eyes to see,you discover that the world is not flat.The world remains a rich tapestry.It remains a rich topography of the spirit.These myriad voices of humanityare not failed attempts at being new,failed attempts at being modern.They&#39;re unique facets of the human imagination.They&#39;re unique answers to a fundamental question:what does it mean to be human and alive?And when asked that question, they respondwith 6,000 different voices.And collectively, those voices become our human repertoirefor dealing with the challenges that will confront usin the ensuing millennia.
时间：17:54
zh-cn:我们的工业社会不过3百年历史。这短浅的历史暗示我们我们并没有得到回答我们面临的所有问题的答案在接下来的千年中。人类解决问题的多样性并非是对人类自我的否定，而是人们是对终极问题的不同回答：身为人类和活着的意义何在？地球上确实燃烧着烈火，不仅带着了植物和动物，还带走了人类辉煌的传统。
en:Our industrial society is scarcely300 years old.That shallow history shouldn&#39;t suggest to anyonethat we have all of the answersfor all of the questions that will confront usin the ensuing millennia.The myriad voices of humanity are not failed attempts at being us.They are unique answers to that fundamental question:what does it mean to be human and alive?And there is indeed a fire burning over the Earth,taking with it not only plants and animals,but the legacy of humanity&#39;s brilliance.
时间：18:22
zh-cn:此刻，当我们坐在这个房间，你出生时正在被使用的六千种语言中，足有一般都没有传授给下一代的孩子们。所以你生活在这样一个时代一半的人类智慧、社会和精神遗产都在悄然流逝。后果不一定是这样。这些人并不是现代化尝试的失败者——奇怪、色彩鲜艳并且注定会消亡就像是遵循自然法则一样。
en:Right now, as we sit here in this room,of those 6,000 languages spoken the day that you were born,fully half aren&#39;t being taught to children.So, you&#39;re living through a timewhen virtually half of humanity&#39;s intellectual,social and spiritual legacyis being allowed to slip away.This does not have to happen.These peoples are not failed attempts at being modern —quaint and colorful and destined to fade awayas if by natural law.
时间：18:47
zh-cn:任何时代，都有活着的人们被认同的压力驱赶着走向灭绝。这事实上是一次积极的观察，因为它暗示着如果人类是破坏文化的罪魁祸首，我们同样能够成为，且必须成为，文化的守护者。
en:In every case, these are dynamic, living peoplesbeing driven out of existence by identifiable forces.That&#39;s actually an optimistic observation,because it suggests that if human beingsare the agents of cultural destruction,we can also be, and must be,the facilitators of cultural survival.
时间：19:03
zh-cn:非常感谢！
en:Thank you very much.
