时间： 0:11
zh-cn:这是革命2.0。没人是英雄。没人是英雄。因为每个人都是英雄。每个人有所贡献。我们都用Wikipedia（维基百科）。想想Wikipedia的概念，每个人都在其中合作贡献内容。最终会建立成世界上最大的百科全书。从一个听起来有点疯狂的想法，到拥有世界上最大的百科全书。
en:This is Revolution 2.0.No one was a hero. No one was a hero.Because everyone was a hero.Everyone has done something.We all use Wikipedia.If you think of the concept of Wikipediawhere everyone is collaborating on content,and at the end of the dayyou&#39;ve built the largest encyclopedia in the world.From just an idea that sounded crazy,you have the largest encyclopedia in the world.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:在埃及革命中，革命2.0，每个人都有所贡献 —或多或少，都有所贡献 —为我们带来人类历史上最激励人心的革命篇章之一。看到所有这些埃及人民彻底的转变确实非常令人振奋。如果看看这埃及已经走了30年的下坡路 —不断下滑。所有事都在变糟。所有事都在变坏。只有谈到下面这些时我们才能排名靠前：贫穷，贪污，缺乏言论自由，缺乏政治权利。这些就是我们伟大政权的成就。然而，什么也没发生。这不是因为人们生活幸福或是毫无沮丧。事实上，人们极其沮丧。但每个人都保持沉默的原因我称之为恐惧的心理障碍。每个人都感到恐惧。不是每个人。实际上还有少数勇敢的埃及人我要感谢他们的勇敢 —他们进行抗议，有数百人，他们被殴打、被捕入狱。但是事实，多数人都感到恐惧。每个人都不想真的惹上麻烦。
en:And in the Egyptian revolution,the Revolution 2.0,everyone has contributed something,small or big. They contributed something —to bring usone of the most inspiring storiesin the history of mankindwhen it comes to revolutions.It was actually really inspiringto see all these Egyptians completely changing.If you look at the scene,Egypt, for 30 years, had been in a downhill —going into a downhill.Everything was going bad.Everything was going wrong.We only ranked high when it comes to poverty,corruption,lack of freedom of speech,lack of political activism.Those were the achievementsof our great regime.Yet, nothing was happening.And it&#39;s not because people were happyor people were not frustrated.In fact, people were extremely frustrated.But the reason why everyone was silentis what I call the psychological barrier of fear.Everyone was scared.Not everyone. There were actually a few brave Egyptiansthat I have to thank for being so brave —going into protests as a couple of hundred,getting beaten up and arrested.But in fact, the majority were scared.Everyone did not want reallyto get in trouble.
时间： 2:08
zh-cn:独裁者没有暴力就无法生存。他们希望让人们生活在恐惧之中。而这种恐惧的心理障碍已经存在了许多许多年，直到有了互联网，技术，黑莓，短信。这帮助我们所有人联系在一起。如YouTube，Twitter，Facebook这样的平台帮了我们大忙，因为这最起码给了我们这样的感觉，“哇，我并不孤单。还有许多感到沮丧的人们。“有许多感到沮丧的人们。有许多人实际上拥有同一个梦想。有许多人渴望自由。他们也许过着世界上最好的生活。他们生活幸福。住在他们的别墅中。他们很快乐；没有什么烦恼。但他们仍感觉到了埃及之痛。
en:A dictator cannot live without the force.They want to make people live in fear.And that psychological barrier of fearhad worked for so many years,and here comes the Internet,technology, BlackBerry, SMS.It&#39;s helping all of us to connect.Platforms like YouTube, Twitter, Facebookwere helping us a lotbecause it basically gave us the impression that, &quot;Wow, I&#39;m not alone.There are a lot of people who are frustrated.&quot;There are lots of people who are frustrated.There are lots of people who actually share the same dream.There are lots of people who care about their freedom.They probably have the best life in the world.They are living in happiness. They are living in their villas.They are happy. They don&#39;t have problems.But they are still feeling the pain of the Egyptian.
时间： 2:58
zh-cn:我们很多人并不快乐尤其是看到一段视频，一名埃及人在垃圾箱里觅食，而有人却正在从国库中盗取数十亿埃及镑的财富。互联网扮演了一个伟大的角色，帮助人们大声说出心里话，相互协作，共同思考。这是场教育运动。
en:A lot of us, we&#39;re not really happywhen we see a video of an Egyptian manwho&#39;s eating the trashwhile others are stealingbillions of Egyptian poundsfrom the wealth of the country.The Internet has played a great role,helping these people to speak up their minds,to collaborate together, to start thinking together.It was an educational campaign.
时间： 3:21
zh-cn:哈勒德·萨伊德于2010年六月被杀害。我仍记得那张照片。我仍记得那张照片中的每个细节。真是太可怕了。他遭受了折磨，被残忍地折磨致死。然而当局的说法是什么呢？他是被一团大麻噎死的。这就是他们的回答：“他是个罪犯。他是个做尽坏事的逃犯。”但人们并不这么认为。人们并不相信这些。因为有了因特网，真相传播开来每个人都了解了真相。每个人都开始思考，“这个人也可能是我的兄弟。”他是个中产阶级。我们大家都记住了他的照片。
en:Khaled Saeed was killedin June 2010.I still remember the photo.I still remember every single detail of that photo.The photo was horrible.He was tortured,brutally tortured to death.But then what was the answer of the regime?&quot;He choked on a pile of hash&quot; —that was their answer:&quot;He&#39;s a criminal.He&#39;s someone who escaped from all these bad things.&quot;But people did not relate to this.People did not believe this.Because of the Internet, the truth prevailedand everyone knew the truth.And everyone started to think that &quot;this guy could be my brother.&quot;He was a middle-class guy.His photo was remembered by all of us.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:有人创建了一个网页。一位匿名的管理员邀请人们加入这一网页，那是还没什么计划。“我们要做什么？”“我不知道。”数天内，数以万计的人们加入 —愤怒的埃及人质问内政部，“够了。交出这些凶手，把他们绳之以法。”当然，他们没有理会。这是个令人惊叹的事 —每个人都开始有了归属感。每个人都是这一网页的拥有者。人们开始出主意。实际上，最搞笑的一个主意是我们去静站吧。大家走上街头，面朝大海，背朝街道，身着黑色衣服，静静的站一个小时，什么也不做，然后离开，回家。对一些人来说，这有点像，“哇，静站。下次就回事震动了。“人们在取笑这个主意。但实际上，当人们走上街头 —在亚历山大第一次有数千人 —那感觉 — 太赞了，太伟大了。因为这是在虚拟世界把人们联系起来，把他们带入现实世界中，分享共同的梦想，共同的沮丧，共同的愤怒，共同的对自由的渴望。他们正在做这些事。但当局学到了什么？没有。实际上，当局攻击了他们。当局对他们滥用权力，尽管事实上这些人是如此的平和 —他们甚至都没有抗议。情况进一步发展，直到突尼斯革命。
en:A page was created.An anonymous administratorwas basically inviting people to join the page,and there was no plan.&quot;What are we going to do?&quot; &quot;I don&#39;t know.&quot;In a few days, tens of thousands of people there —angry Egyptianswho were asking the ministry of interior affairs,&quot;Enough.Get those who killed this guy.To just bring them to justice.&quot;But of course, they don&#39;t listen.It was an amazing story —how everyone started feeling the ownership.Everyone was an owner in this page.People started contributing ideas.In fact, one of the most ridiculous ideaswas, &quot;Hey, let&#39;s have a silent stand.Let&#39;s get people to go in the street,face the sea, their back to the street,dressed in black, standing up silently for one hour,doing nothing and then just leaving,going back home.&quot;For some people, that was like, &quot;Wow, silent stand.And next time it&#39;s going to be vibration.&quot;People were making fun of the idea.But actually when people went to the street —the first time it was thousands of peoplein Alexandria —it felt like — it was amazing. It was greatbecause it connected people from the virtual world,bringing them to the real world,sharing the same dream,the same frustration, the same anger,the same desire for freedom.And they were doing this thing.But did the regime learn anything? Not really.They were actually attacking them.They were actually abusing them,despite the fact of how peaceful these guys were —they were not even protesting.And things had developeduntil the Tunisian revolution.
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:整个网页，再一次，被人们管理起来。实际上，匿名管理工作就是收集建议，帮人们对其投票，并告诉人们真正做什么。人们拍摄视频和照片；不断报告在埃及违法人权的事例；人们提出建议，并对其投票，接着付诸实施；人们制作视频。每件事都是由人们为自己而作的，这就是英特网的力量。没有领袖。那网页上的每个人都是领袖。正如埃米尔所说，突尼斯的经历鼓舞了我们所有人，让我们看到了一条出路。是的，我们能。我们能做到。我们有着同样的问题，我们能走上街头。
en:This whole page was, again,managed by the people.In fact, the anonymous admin jobwas to collect ideas,help people to vote on themand actually tell them what they are doing.People were taking shots and photos;people were reporting violations of human rights in Egypt;people were suggesting ideas,they were actually voting on ideas,and then they were executing the ideas; people were creating videos.Everything was done by the people to the people,and that&#39;s the power of the Internet.There was no leader.The leader was everyone on that page.The Tunisian experiment, as Amir was saying,inspired all of us, showed us that there is a way.Yes we can. We can do it.We have the same problems;we can just go in the streets.
时间： 6:32
zh-cn:在25号看到街头的人们后，我回去写道，“25号前的埃及与25号后的埃及完全不同。革命正在进行。没有结束，这是结束的开始。“我是27号晚上被拘押的。感谢上帝，我公布了所有我所在的地点和一切。但他们拘押了我。我不想谈论我的这段经历，因为这不仅是我个人的事。我被拘押了12天，被蒙着眼，戴着手铐。我什么都没听到。我什么都不知道。我不能和任何人说话。我被释放了。获释后的第二天我去了解放广场。说真的，我看到这个广场所发生的巨变，让我以为过去了12年。我从未想象过这样的埃及人，神奇的埃及人。恐惧已不再是恐惧。它实际上以转变为力量。人们是如此地强大。看到每个人都变得如此强大并开始要求自己权利真是太神奇了。彻底地颠覆。极端主义者变得宽容。
en:And when I saw the street on the 25th,I went back and said,&quot;Egypt before the 25this never going to be Egypt after the 25th.The revolution is happening.This is not the end,this is the beginning of the end.&quot;I was detained on the 27th night.Thank God I announced the locations and everything.But they detained me.And I&#39;m not going to talk about my experience, because this is not about me.I was detained for 12 days,blindfolded, handcuffed.And I did not really hear anything. I did not know anything.I was not allowed to speak with anyone.And I went out.The next day I was in Tahrir.Seriously, with the amount of change I had noticed in this square,I thought it was 12 years.I never had in my mindto see this Egyptian,the amazing Egyptian.The fear is no longer fear.It&#39;s actually strength — it&#39;s power.People were so empowered.It was amazing how everyone was so empoweredand now asking for their rights.Completely opposite.Extremism became tolerance.
时间： 7:41
zh-cn:在25号之前谁能想象的到，数十万的的基督徒进行祈祷而数万的穆斯林在保护他们，同样，数十万的穆斯林进行祈祷数万的基督徒在保护他们 —太神奇了。当局通过他们所谓的宣传机构或是主流媒体灌输给我们的所有的陈词滥调全都破灭了。这整场革命向我们展示了当局有多么丑陋，埃及男人和埃及女人有多么伟大和神奇，当这些人们拥有梦想时是多么的质朴和神奇。
en:Who would [have] imagined before the 25th,if I tell you that hundreds of thousands of Christians are going to prayand tens of thousands of Muslims are going to protect them,and then hundreds of thousands of Muslims are going to prayand tens of thousands of Christians are going to protect them —this is amazing.All the stereotypesthat the regime was trying to put on usthrough their so-called propaganda, or mainstream media,are proven wrong.This whole revolution showed ushow ugly such a regime wasand how great and amazingthe Egyptian man, the Egyptian woman,how simple and amazing these people arewhenever they have a dream.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:当我看到这些，我回到家中在Facebook上记录下来。那是我个人的信仰，无论发生何事，无论怎样。我说过，“我们将取得胜利。我们将取得胜利，因为我们不懂政治。我们将取得胜利，因为我们不会玩他们这种肮脏的游戏。我们将取得胜利，因为我们没有议程安排。我们将取得胜利，因为从我们眼中流出的热泪实际上来自我们的心里。我们将取得胜利，因为我们拥有梦想。我们将取得胜利，因为我们愿意为我们的梦想而奋斗。“这是就是所发生的一切。我们胜利了。不是任何别的原因，而是因为我们相信自己的梦想。这次胜利不是在政治舞台上将要发生的全部细节。这次胜利在于赢得了每个埃及人的尊严。
en:When I saw that,I went back and I wrote on Facebook.And that was a personal belief,regardless of what&#39;s going on,regardless of the details.I said that, &quot;We are going to win.We are going to win because we don&#39;t understand politics.We&#39;re going to win because we don&#39;t play their dirty games.We&#39;re going to win because we don&#39;t have an agenda.We&#39;re going to win because the tears that come from our eyesactually come from our hearts.We&#39;re going to win because we have dreams.We&#39;re going to win because we are willing to stand up for our dreams.&quot;And that&#39;s actually what happened. We won.And that&#39;s not because of anything,but because we believed in our dream.The winning here is notthe whole details of what&#39;s going to happen in the political scene.The winning is the winning of the dignityof every single Egyptian.
时间： 9:12
zh-cn:实际上，有个出租车司机告诉过我，”听着，我在自由的呼吸。我感觉到了我失去多年的尊严。“对我而言，这就是胜利，不论其他。
en:Actually, I had this taxi driver telling me,&quot;Listen, I am breathing freedom.I feel that I have dignitythat I have lost for so many years.&quot;For me that&#39;s winning,regardless of all the details.
时间： 9:26
zh-cn:我最后想告诉各位我所信仰的一句话，埃及人已经证明了这句话的真实，人民的力量远胜执掌权力的人。
en:My last word to you is a statement I believe in,which Egyptians have proven to be true,that the power of the peopleis much stronger than the people in power.
时间： 9:36
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thanks a lot.
时间： 9:38
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
