时间： 0:11
zh-cn:有些人对法国葡萄酒着迷，有些人喜欢打高尔夫球，或者沉浸在文学作品里。我生活中最大的乐趣是，我不得不承认，有点特殊。我无法形容我有多么享受从飞机上俯视整个城市。
en:Some people are obsessedby French wines.Others love playing golfor devouring literature.One of my greatest pleasuresin life is, I have to admit,a bit special.I cannot tell you how much I enjoywatching cities from the sky,from an airplane window.
时间： 0:31
zh-cn:有些城市的工业化程度刚刚好，比如杜塞尔多夫，或者路易维尔。而有些城市已经早已不堪重负，像纽约，或香港。然后，还有像巴黎，伊斯坦堡这样充满历史的城市。
en:Some cities are calmly industrious,like Dusseldorfor Louisville.Others project an energythat they can hardly contain,like New Yorkor Hong Kong.And then you have Parisor Istanbul,and their patina full of history.
时间： 0:53
zh-cn:我把城市当作生命体，当我从高空鸟瞰它们的时候，我喜欢寻找那些组成了城市框架的主要街道和高速公路。特别是在晚上，人们让这些城市的动脉变得异常鲜红和金黄：城市的血液循环系统生机勃勃地展现在你的眼前。但是，当我坐在自己的车里，每天有一个半小时的时间都堵在路上，眼前的一切就截然不同了。
en:I see cities as living beings.And when I discover them from far above,I like to find those main streetsand highways that structure their space.Especially at night,when commuters make these arterieslook dramatically red and golden:the city&#39;s vascular systemperforming its vital functionright before your eyes.But when I&#39;m sitting in my carafter an hour and a halfof commute every day,that reality looks very different.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:26
zh-cn:什么都没有——没有广播节目，没有播客，
en:Nothing —not public radio,no podcast —
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:（笑声）连能让这些时间变得有点意义的专注的冥想都做不到。
en:(Laughter)Not even mindfulness meditationmakes this time worth living.
时间： 1:35
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:37
zh-cn:这难道不可笑吗？我们制造了能够达到时速210公里的汽车，却以19世纪马车一样的速度驾驶它们。
en:Isn&#39;t it absurdthat we created carsthat can reach 130 miles per hourand we now drive them at the same speedas 19th-century horse carriages?
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:仅仅在美国，2014年我们就花了296亿小时在通勤上。在这么多的时间里，古埃及人都能造出26个胡夫金字塔了。
en:In the US alone,we spent 29.6 billion hourscommuting in 2014.With that amount of time,ancient Egyptians could have built26 Pyramids of Giza.
时间： 2:03
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:我们用了一年就做到了。这是对时间，精力和人类潜能巨大的浪费。
en:We do that in one year.A monumental waste of time,energy and human potential.
时间： 2:11
zh-cn:数十年来，我们解决交通拥堵的方式都很简单：建造新路或者拓宽现存的道路，效果还算不错。巴黎的建设卓有成效，他们拆毁了上百幢历史建筑，建造了137公里的交通友好型的大道。在当今快速兴起的城市中也是如此。但是在很多繁华的城市中心，较大的道路拓宽几乎是不可能的：建筑过于密集，房价过高，公共建设资金太少。我们的城市血液循环系统正在变得拥堵，无法正常发挥功能，应该引起我们的重视。
en:For decades,our remedy for congestion was simple:build new roads or enlarge existing ones.And it worked.It worked admirably for Paris,when the city tore downhundreds of historical buildingsto create 85 milesof transportation-friendly boulevards.And it still works todayin fast-growing emerging cities.But in more established urban centers,significant network expansionsare almost impossible:habitat is just too dense,real estate, too expensiveand public finances, too fragile.Our city&#39;s vascular systemis getting clogged, it&#39;s getting sick,and we should pay attention.
时间： 2:52
zh-cn:我们现有的思维方式已经不起作用了。为了让交通流动起来，我们需要一种新的灵感。
en:Our current wayof thinking is not working.For our transportation to flow,we need a new source of inspiration.
时间： 3:01
zh-cn:我在交通部门工作了16年，在和一个生物技术背景的顾客交谈时突然茅塞顿开。她告诉我她的研究如何影响了我们血液循环系统的一些特殊性质。“哇”，我想到，“我们的血液循环系统，我们身体内的所有动脉和静脉，每天都在创造生理的奇迹。&quot;就是那个时候我意识到，生物学已经存在于交通方面几十亿年了。它已经测试过无数方法，转移养分，气体和蛋白质。这真的是世界上最复杂的交通系统。
en:So after 16 yearsworking in transportation,my &quot;aha moment&quot; happenedwhen speaking with a biotech customer.She was telling me how her treatmentwas leveraging specific propertiesof our vascular system.&quot;Wow,&quot; I thought, &quot;Our vascular system —all the veins and arteries in our bodymaking miracles of logistics every day.&quot;This is the moment I realizedthat biology has beenin the transportation businessfor billions of years.It has been testing countless solutionsto move nutrients, gases and proteins.It really is the world&#39;s mostsophisticated transportation laboratory.
时间： 3:42
zh-cn:所以，如果交通拥堵的解决方案就在我们体内呢？我想知道，为什么绝大多数时间，血液在血管中不会堵塞？但我们的大城市每天都会拥堵？事实上，这是两种非常不同的系统。我不知道你意识到了没有，实际上我们每个人体内都有近十万公里长的血管——十万公里。你的体内有两个半的地球赤道。这意味着血管在你身体里无处不在，不仅只在皮肤下面（看得见的地方）。
en:So, what if the solution to our trafficchallenges was inside us?I wanted to know:Why is it that blood flowsin our veins most of our lives,when our big cities get cloggedon a daily basis?And the reality is that you&#39;re lookingat two very different networks.I don&#39;t know if you realize,but each of us has 60,000 milesof blood vessels in our bodies —60,000 miles.That&#39;s two-and-a-half timesthe Earth&#39;s circumference,inside you.What it means is that blood vesselsare everywhere inside us,not just under the surface of our skin.
时间： 4:21
zh-cn:但是，看看我们的城市，是，我们的确有一些地铁系统，一些隧道和桥梁，以及天空中的直升机。但是绝大多数的交通都是在地面，在地表上。换句话说，我们体内的血管系统是立体结构的，而绝大多数的城市交通系统都是平面结构的。所以我们需要利用更多的纵向空间。如果地表已经没有多余的空间，那我们就把交通系统抬高。
en:But if you look at our cities,yes, we have someunderground subway systemsand some tunnels and bridges,and also some helicopters in the sky.But the vast majority of our trafficis focused on the ground,on the surface.So in other words,while our vascular system usesthe three dimensions inside us,our urban transportationis mostly two-dimensional.And so what we needis to embrace that verticality.If our surface grid is saturated,well, let&#39;s elevate our traffic.
时间： 4:55
zh-cn:这个中国的概念巴士能够凌驾于拥堵的交通道路之上，这种对城市内部的空间和移动的思考方式多么让人大开眼界。然而我们可以把交通系统的位置继续抬升，像我们的输电网络一样。特拉维夫和阿布扎比正在考虑检测这些构成未来交通网络的悬挂式磁性胶囊车厢。我们还可以继续抬高，甚至飞翔。事实上像空中客车这样的公司正在认真研究城市飞行的士，看起来前景光明。飞行汽车终于从科幻小说进入到了引人注目的商业领域。这是令人激动的时刻。
en:This Chinese concept of a busthat can straddle traffic jams —that was an eye-opener on new waysto think about space and movementinside our cities.And we can go higher,and suspend our transportationlike we did with our electrical grid.Tel Aviv and Abu Dhabiare talking about testingthese futuristic networksof suspended magnetic pods.And we can keep climbing, and fly.The fact that a company like Airbusis now seriously workingon flying urban taxisis telling us something.Flying cars are finally movingfrom science-fiction déjà vuto attractive business-case territory.And that&#39;s an exciting moment.
时间： 5:41
zh-cn:建造这些立体交通网络是减少或解决交通堵塞的方法之一。但还有其他方法。我们还要考虑其他基本的选择，比如我们使用的交通工具。想象一个非常熟悉的场景：你已经开车42分钟了。后座的两个小孩开始不耐烦。而且你要迟到了。你看到前面那辆慢吞吞的车了吗？总是在你迟到的时候出现，对吧？
en:So building this 3-Dtransportation networkis one of the ways we can mitigateand solve traffic jams.But it&#39;s not the only one.We have to questionother fundamental choicesthat we made, like the vehicles we use.Just imagine a very familiar scene:You&#39;ve been driving for 42 minutes.The two kids behind youare getting restless.And you&#39;re late.Do you see that slow car in front of you?Always comes when you&#39;re late, right?
时间： 6:12
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间： 6:13
zh-cn:那个驾驶员正在寻找停车位。那块区域没有空车位，但是他怎么会知道？据估计，有将近30%的城市交通拥堵是由驾驶员找车位造成的。你看见身边的100辆车了吗？其中的85辆都只有一位乘客。那85个驾驶员能够装满一辆伦敦红巴士。所以问题是，为什么我们浪费这么多宝贵的空间？为什么我们要这样对自己？
en:That driver is looking for parking.There is no parking spotavailable in the area,but how would he know?It is estimated that up to 30 percentof urban traffic is generatedby drivers looking for parking.Do you see the 100 cars around you?Eighty-five of themonly have one passenger.Those 85 drivers could all fitin one Londonian red bus.So the question is:Why are we wasting so much spaceif it is what we need the most?Why are we doing this to ourselves?
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:生物学永远不会这样。我们血管的空间都被充分利用了。每一次心跳产生的血压能够为数百万血细胞压缩大量的氧气进行运输，并很快流遍全身。连血细胞内的微小空间也没有被浪费。在健康条件下，超过95%的氧容量都能够被使用。你能够想象如果我们城市里超过95%的交通工具都是满载的，剩下的空间，能够让你自由地走路，骑车，享受这个城市吗？
en:Biology would never do this.Space inside our arteriesis fully utilized.At every heartbeat,a higher blood pressure literally compactsmillions of red blood cellsinto massive trains of oxygenthat quickly flow throughout our body.And the tiny space inside our redblood cells is not wasted, either.In healthy conditions,more than 95 percentof their oxygen capacity is utilized.Can you imagine if the vehicleswe used in our citieswere 95 percent full,all the additional spaceyou would have to walk, to bikeand to enjoy our cities?
时间： 7:21
zh-cn:血液是如此有效率的原因是我们的血细胞不只作用于特定器官或组织；要不然，我们的血管可能也会堵塞。它们实际上是共享的。它们被身体所有的细胞共有。但是因为我们的身体系统如此庞大，37万亿细胞中的每一个都有自己的氧气输送渠道，有需要时能实现精准输送。
en:The reason blood is soincredibly efficientis that our red blood cellsare not dedicatedto specific organs or tissues;otherwise, we would probably havetraffic jams in our veins.No, they&#39;re shared.They&#39;re shared by allthe cells of our body.And because our network is so extensive,each one of our 37 trillion cellsgets its own deliveries of oxygenprecisely when it needs them.
时间： 7:47
zh-cn:血液既是集体，也是个体的运输方式。但是对我们的城市来说，我们被困住了。我们被无尽的争辩困住了，纠结于创造一个以汽车为中心的社会，还是打造大型的交通系统。我觉得我们应该跳出这些限制。我觉得我们能建造出结合传统汽车的便捷，和火车巴士的效率的交通工具。想想看，你舒服地坐在一辆快速平稳的城市火车上，还有其他1200个乘客。城市火车的问题在于有时候你要停下五次、十次、十五次才到达你的站点。
en:Blood is both a collectiveand individual form of transportation.But for our cities,we&#39;ve been stuck.We&#39;ve been stuck in an endless debatebetween creating a car-centric societyor extensive mass-transit systems.I think we should transcend this.I think we can create vehiclesthat combine the convenience of carsand the efficiencies of trains and buses.Just imagine.You&#39;re comfortably sittingin a fast and smooth urban train,along with 1,200 passengers.The problem with urban trainsis that sometimes you have to stopfive, ten, fifteen timesbefore your final destination.
时间： 8:29
zh-cn:如果这个火车不用停下呢？这辆火车的车厢能够在移动中自动脱离，成为高速的无人驾驶巴士，飞驰在次级运输道路上。所以无需任何停顿，也无需长距离的换乘，你正坐在一辆驶向城区的巴士中。快到的时候，你所坐的部分会脱离，自动驾驶到你的目的地跟前。这就同时实现了集体和个体运输。这可能就是未来的公共模块化无人驾驶交通工具之一。
en:What if in this trainyou didn&#39;t have to stop?In this train,wagons can detach dynamicallywhile you&#39;re movingand become express, driverless busesthat move on a secondary road network.And so without a single stop,nor a lengthy transfer,you are now sitting in a busthat is headed toward your suburb.And when you get close,the section you&#39;re sitting in detachesand self-drives youright to your doorstep.It is collective and individualat the same time.This could be one of the shared,modular, driverless vehicles of tomorrow.
时间： 9:08
zh-cn:现在再想象一下，你行走在满是无人机，飞行的士，模块化巴士和悬挂式磁性胶囊车厢的城市，这还不够天马行空。我觉得还有一个方法，能够减轻城市交通堵塞。想想看，现在的无人驾驶汽车都在尝试适应人类的驾驶网络。它们在尝试学习相对简单的交通规则，并适应人类行为的不确定性，这相对比较难。
en:Now ...as if walking in a citybuzzing with drones,flying taxis, modular busesand suspended magnetic podswas not exotic enough,I think there is another force in actionthat will make urban traffic mesmerizing.If you think about it,the current generation of driverless carsis just trying to earn its wayinto a traffic gridmade by and for humans.They&#39;re trying to learn traffic rules,which is relatively simple,and coping with human unpredictability,which is more challenging.
时间： 9:44
zh-cn:但是当整个城市都实现了无人驾驶，会发生什么？我们还需要红绿灯吗？我们需要车道吗？限速呢？血细胞可不是沿着特定的通道移动。他们从不在红灯停下。第一个无人驾驶城市，不会有红灯和车道。当车辆都实现无人驾驶并互相联网的时候，任何事情都是可预测的，反应时间达到最短。它们能够驾驶得更快，可以理性地做出选择来加速，或者让身边的车辆先行。没有严格的交通规则，车流会被一个流动网络和不断自我改进的算法管制。结果就产生了一种新颖的交通，混合了德国高速公路的快捷和通畅，和孟买交岔路的创造性和活力。
en:But what would happenwhen whole cities become driverless?Would we need traffic lights?Would we need lanes?How about speed limits?Red blood cells are not flowing in lanes.They never stop at red lights.In the first driverless cities,you would have no red lights and no lanes.And when all the carsare driverless and connected,everything is predictableand reaction time, minimum.They can drive much fasterand can take any rational initiativethat can speed them upor the cars around them.So instead of rigid traffic rules,flow will be regulatedby a mesh of dynamic and constantlyself-improving algorithms.The result: a strange trafficthat mixes the fast and smoothrigor of German autobahnsand the creative vitalityof the intersections of Mumbai.
时间：10:39
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：10:41
zh-cn:交通会在功能上更活跃，变成血液一样的液体。听上去像是一种悖论，但我们的交通越机械自动化，就会如有机体般，变得更活跃。
en:Traffic will be functionally exuberant.It will be liquid like our blood.And by a strange paradox,the more robotizedour traffic grid will be,the more organic and aliveits movement will feel.
时间：10:54
zh-cn:所以是的，生物学包含着所有关于交通运输的智慧，但是这个过程花了数十亿年，经过了无数消除和变异的过程。我们没法等待数十亿年来改善交通系统。我们现在有了梦想，概念，和技术，来创造立体交通网络，研发新的交通工具，来改变城市的交通流动。
en:So yes,biology has all the attributesof a transportation genius today.But this process has takenbillions of years,and went through all sortsof iterations and mutations.We can&#39;t wait billions of yearsto evolve our transportation system.We now have the dreams,the conceptsand the technologyto create 3-D transportation networks,invent new vehiclesand change the flow in our cities.
时间：11:22
zh-cn:让我们行动起来吧。
en:Let&#39;s do it.
时间：11:23
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：11:24
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
