时间： 0:11
zh-cn:“为什么？”父母们总是问我“为什么？”这个问题。“为什么我的孩子得了自闭症？”身为儿科医生、基因专家、学者，我们试着找出答案。
en:&quot;Why?&quot;&quot;Why?&quot; is a questionthat parents ask me all the time.&quot;Why did my child develop autism?&quot;As a pediatrician, as a geneticist, as a researcher,we try and address that question.
时间： 0:27
zh-cn:但是自闭症的症状不是单一的。它事实上是一整个谱系发生了失调，自闭症谱系有很多种表现形式：比如，13岁的贾斯丁，他不能说话，只能利用 iPad 与人交流，通过触碰图像来表达他的想法和担忧。另一位得了自闭症的男孩在难过时会不断摇摆晃动，要是足够心烦了，他会撞自己的头，一直撞到头破血流，需要进行缝线。同样被诊断得了自闭症的，是另一个13岁男孩，他叫戈贝尔，但他所面对的挑战却截然不同。实际上，他对数学极有天赋。他可以轻易在脑海中进行3位数间的乘法运算，然而要与人谈话时，他却无法应对。他不会进行眼神交流。他不会开启一个话题，他会感到尴尬。当他感到紧张时就会缄默不言。这些男孩都同样被诊断患有自闭症谱系失调。
en:But autism is not a single condition.It&#39;s actually a spectrum of disorders,a spectrum that ranges, for instance,from Justin, a 13-year-old boywho&#39;s not verbal, who can&#39;t speak,who communicates by using an iPadto touch pictures to communicatehis thoughts and his concerns,a little boy who, when he gets upset,will start rocking,and eventually, when he&#39;s disturbed enough,will bang his head to the pointthat he can actually cut it open and require stitches.That same diagnosis of autism, though,also applies to Gabriel,another 13-year-old boywho has quite a different set of challenges.He&#39;s actually quite remarkably gifted in mathematics.He can multiple three numbers by three numbersin his head with ease,yet when it comes to trying to have a conversation,he has great difficulty.He doesn&#39;t make eye contact.He has difficulty starting a conversation,feels awkward,and when he gets nervous,he actually shuts down.Yet both of these boyshave the same diagnosis ofautism spectrum disorder.
时间： 1:34
zh-cn:不过我们关心的一个问题是自闭症是否是一种流行病。如今，每88个孩子中就有一个被诊断出患有自闭症，而问题就是呈现的数据为什么会是这样？患者人数是否随着时间推移剧烈地增长呢？还是因为我们现在开始会辨认患有自闭症的儿童，能给他们一个诊断，其实这个群体一直都存在，只不过一直没人会诊断？实际上，在20世纪80年代末、90年代早期，议会通过了一个法案，为患自闭症的人提供资源，让他们能够同样接受教育，来帮助他们。随着人们对自闭症的认识日益增长，更多的父母、儿科医生、教育者了解了如何辨认自闭症的特征。于是，更多人被诊断出了自闭症，并获得了他们所需的资源。此外，我们也在不断改变自闭症的定义，实际上，我们拓展了自闭症的定义。这也成为了患者人数不断上升的原因之一。
en:One of the things that concerns usis whether or not there really isan epidemic of autism.These days, one in 88 childrenwill be diagnosed with autism,and the question is,why does this graph look this way?Has that number been increasingdramatically over time?Or is it because we have now started labelingindividuals with autism,simply giving them a diagnosiswhen they were still present there beforeyet simply didn&#39;t have that label?And in fact, in the late 1980s, the early 1990s,legislation was passedthat actually provided individuals with autismwith resources, with access to educational materialsthat would help them.With that increased awareness, more parents,more pediatricians, more educatorslearned to recognize the features of autism.As a result of that, more individuals were diagnosedand got access to the resources they needed.In addition, we&#39;ve changed our definition over time,so in fact we&#39;ve widened the definition of autism,and that accounts for some ofthe increased prevalence that we see.
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:人们想知道的下一个问题是，到底是什么引起了自闭症？一个普遍的理论误区是疫苗会引发自闭症。但请允许我在此澄清：疫苗不会引起自闭症。（掌声）实际上，最初得出这种误导性结论的是一项彻头彻尾的学术欺诈性研究。它最初刊登在《柳叶刀》医学期刊上，但后来被撤稿了，文章的作者是一名内科医生，后来也被吊销了执照。（掌声）药物监管局以及疾病控制中心已经反复研究过这个结论，并指出并无确凿证据证明疫苗会引起自闭症。除此之外，疫苗的组成成分之一：硫柳汞，被认为是引发自闭症的诱因。但这一成分早在1992年就被从疫苗中移除，而你们可以看到这一成分的移除并未能阻止自闭症大量增加的情况。因此我必须再次阐明：没有证据表明疫苗会导致自闭症。那们问题依然存在：到底是什么导致了自闭症？
en:The next question everyone wonders is,what caused autism?And a common misconceptionis that vaccines cause autism.But let me be very clear:Vaccines do not cause autism.(Applause)In fact, the original research studythat suggested that was the casewas completely fraudulent.It was actually retracted from the journal Lancet,in which it was published,and that author, a physician,had his medical license taken away from him.(Applause)The Institute of Medicine,The Centers for Disease Control,have repeatedly investigated thisand there is no credible evidencethat vaccines cause autism.Furthermore,one of the ingredients in vaccines,something called thimerosal,was thought to be what the cause of autism was.That was actually removed from vaccinesin the year 1992,and you can see that it really did not have an effectin what happened with the prevalence of autism.So again, there is no evidencethat this is the answer.So the question remains, what does cause autism?
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:事实上，答案可能不止一个。就像自闭症是一个谱系一样，病因也有一个谱系，一个诱因的谱系。根据流行病学数据，我们知道，诱因之一，或者说，关联因素之一，是较高的父亲年龄，也就是说，在受孕时间父方的年龄较高。自闭症发展阶段中另一个易受影响的关键时期是母亲的怀孕时期。在此时期，婴儿的大脑正在发育我们知道与某些介质的接触实际上会增加患自闭症的风险。尤其要指出的是，有一种药物丙戊酸，有些患有癫痫的母亲们有时会服用，也会增加新生儿自闭症的风险。不止如此，还有些传染性病原体也会诱发自闭症。
en:In fact, there&#39;s probably not one single answer.Just as autism is a spectrum,there&#39;s a spectrum of etiologies,a spectrum of causes.Based on epidemiological data,we know that one of the causes,or one of the associations, I should say,is advanced paternal age,that is, increasing age of the fatherat the time of conception.In addition, another vulnerableand critical period in terms of developmentis when the mother is pregnant.During that period, whilethe fetal brain is developing,we know that exposure to certain agentscan actually increase the risk of autism.In particular, there&#39;s a medication, valproic acid,which mothers with epilepsy sometimes take,we know can increase that risk of autism.In addition, there can be some infectious agentsthat can also cause autism.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:而其中一项我会花大量时间研究的，是能诱发自闭症的基因。我关注这个不是因为基因是自闭症的唯一诱因，而是因为这种诱因可以让我们更好地对其给出定义，并借此更好地了解生物学，更好地理解大脑的运作方式，这样我们才能制定出干预性策略。然而其中一项我们不理解的基因因素，是我们在男女患者身上观察到的差别。患上自闭症的男女比例是4:1，我们确实不知道原因是什么。
en:And one of the things I&#39;m going to spenda lot of time focusing onare the genes that can cause autism.I&#39;m focusing on this not because genesare the only cause of autism,but it&#39;s a cause of autismthat we can readily defineand be able to better understand the biologyand understand better how the brain worksso that we can come up with strategiesto be able to intervene.One of the genetic factors that we don&#39;t understand,however, is the difference that we seein terms of males and females.Males are affected four to one compared to femaleswith autism,and we really don&#39;t understand what that cause is.
时间： 5:40
zh-cn:我们了解基因诱因的方式之一，是观察我们所称的“一致率”。换言之，如果兄弟姐妹中有一位患有自闭症，那其他兄弟姐妹患上自闭症的概率是多少？我们特别选取了三类兄弟姐妹做对照：同卵双胞胎，他们共享100%的基因信息，与其兄弟姐妹共享同一宫腔环境；第二组是异卵双胞胎，异卵双胞胎共享50%的基因信息，第三组是一般的兄弟姐妹，兄妹，姐弟，或者姐妹，也共享50%基因信息，但经历不同的宫腔环境。在观察这些对照组的一致率时，引人注意的事情之一是，同卵胞胎一致率为77%。要指出的是，这并不是100%。基因并不是决定自闭症风险的全部因素。但基因还是占了很大比例。因为当你看异卵双胞胎时，一致率只有31%另外，异卵双胞胎之间的一致率与普通兄弟姐妹的一致率也不同，这表明了异卵双胞胎共享的一些介质是普通的兄弟姐妹无法共同接触到的。
en:One of the ways that we can understandthat genetics is a factoris by looking at something calledthe concordance rate.In other words, if one sibling has autism,what&#39;s the probabilitythat another sibling in that family will have autism?And we can look in particularat three types of siblings:identical twins,twins that actually share 100 percentof their genetic informationand shared the same intrauterine environment,versus fraternal twins,twins that actually share 50 percentof their genetic information,versus regular siblings,brother-sister, sister-sister,also sharing 50 percent of their genetic information,yet not sharing the same intrauterine environment.And when you look at those concordance ratios,one of the striking things that you will seeis that in identical twins,that concordance rate is 77 percent.Remarkably, though,it&#39;s not 100 percent.It is not that genes accountfor all of the risk for autism,but yet they account for a lot of that risk,because when you look at fraternal twins,that concordance rate is only 31 percent.On the other hand, there is a differencebetween those fraternal twins and the siblings,suggesting that there are common exposuresfor those fraternal twinsthat may not be shared as commonlywith siblings alone.
时间： 7:00
zh-cn:这佐证了一些数据，表明自闭症是遗传的。那么，遗传的影响到底有多大呢？当我们将它同其他我们熟悉的疾病进行对比，像癌症，心脏病，厌食症等，事实上，相比起来，遗传在自闭症中扮演了更重要的角色。但只有这些，我们还是不知道哪些是致病基因。数据甚至也没有告诉我们，一个孩子患上自闭症是单一基因，还是潜在的一组基因造成的结果？因此，对一些自闭症个体来说，这明显是遗传的！也就是说，是由一条单一的强有力的、决定性的基因引起的自闭症。然而，在其他个体中，它基本上是遗传的，也就是说那实际上是一组基因以及整个发育过程，最终决定患上自闭症的风险。我们并不知道对于任一个体来说哪个答案才是正确的，直到我们深入进行发掘。
en:So this provides some of the datathat autism is genetic.Well, how genetic is it?When we compare it to other conditionsthat we&#39;re familiar with,things like cancer, heart disease, diabetes,in fact, genetics plays a much larger role in autismthan it does in any of these other conditions.But with this, that doesn&#39;ttell us what the genes are.It doesn&#39;t even tell us in any one child,is it one geneor potentially a combination of genes?And so in fact, in some individuals with autism,it is genetic!That is, that it is one single,powerful, deterministic genethat causes the autism.However, in other individuals,it&#39;s genetic, that is,that it&#39;s actually a combination of genesin part with the developmental processthat ultimately determines that risk for autism.We don&#39;t know in any one person, necessarily,which of those two answers it isuntil we start digging deeper.
时间： 8:01
zh-cn:所以问题变成了我们如何才能鉴别出究竟是哪些基因会引发自闭症。让我展示一些可能与直觉相悖的东西。某些个体可能因为遗传因素患上自闭症，但并不一定因为家族中多人患有自闭症。原因就在于，对于某些个体而言，他们实际上会发生基因变化，或者说变异，而这些并非继承自他们的母亲或者父亲，而是在他们自己体内才开始的产生，也就是说卵子或精子受育过程中发生的突变，并不是随着家族代代相传而导致的。我们也能使用这个策略来理解并甄别在这些个体中引起自闭症的基因。实际上，在西门斯基金会，我们选取了家族史上没有自闭症的2600个个体，同时也选取了这些孩子及他们的父母，并利用这些样本试着了解当中引发自闭症的基因究竟是哪些？为达成这一目标，我们实际上不得不全面回顾所有基因信息，并找出父母及孩子之间的不同之处。为了达到这个目的，我得抱歉的告诉大家，我将使用过时的百科全书做比喻，而不是利用维基百科。但我会试着来让大家更明白，当我们进行总结归纳时，我们必须能够观察大量的信息。我们的基因信息存在于46卷百科全书中（影射46条染色体），在我们分析数据时，需要对这46卷进行逐一计数。因为在某些自闭症案列中，实际上是整条单一染色体消失了。然而我们必须得到更多数据，所以，我们不得不打开这些书，而在某些案例中，基因变化要微妙得多，可能是单一段落（基因片段）消失了，也可能，更微妙地，单独一个字母（碱基），30亿字母（碱基）中的一个，被改变了，被替换了，但仍能极大的影响大脑的功能以及患者的行为。通过对这些家族进行反复对比，我们能计算出在这些家族中，大约25%的个体是由单一，强有力的基因因素诱发了自闭症。换句话说，有75%的自闭症原因仍不明。
en:So the question becomes,how can we start to identifywhat exactly those genes are.And let me pose somethingthat might not be intuitive.In certain individuals,they can have autismfor a reason that is geneticbut yet not because of autism running in the family.And the reason is because in certain individuals,they can actually have genetic changes or mutationsthat are not passed down from the motheror from the father,but actually start brand new in them,mutations that are presentin the egg or the spermat the time of conceptionbut have not been passed downgeneration through generation within the family.And we can actually use that strategyto now understand and to identifythose genes causing autism in those individuals.So in fact, at the Simons Foundation,we took 2,600 individualsthat had no family history of autism,and we took that child and their mother and fatherand used them to try and understandwhat were those genescausing autism in those cases?To do that, we actually had to comprehensivelybe able to look at all that genetic informationand determine what those differences werebetween the mother, the father and the child.In doing so, I apologize,I&#39;m going to use an outdated analogyof encyclopedias rather than Wikipedia,but I&#39;m going to do so to try and help make the pointthat as we did this inventory,we needed to be able to look atmassive amounts of information.Our genetic information is organizedinto a set of 46 volumes,and when we did that, we had to be able to accountfor each of those 46 volumes,because in some cases with autism,there&#39;s actually a single volume that&#39;s missing.We had to get more granular than that, though,and so we had to start opening those books,and in some cases, the genetic changewas more subtle.It might have been a singleparagraph that was missing,or yet, even more subtle than that,a single letter,one out of three billion lettersthat was changed, that was altered,yet had profound effectsin terms of how the brain functionsand affects behavior.In doing this within these families,we were able to account for approximately25 percent of the individualsand determine that there was a singlepowerful genetic factorthat caused autism within those families.On the other hand, there&#39;s 75 percentthat we still haven&#39;t figured out.
时间：10:33
zh-cn:当我们做这个实验时，确实很让我们觉得自己很渺小，因为我们意识到自闭症的基因并不是单一的事实上，现在的数据表明有200到400个不同的基因都可以导致自闭症。这也部分地解释了为何它的影响形成了如此宽广的谱系。尽管有如此众多的基因，确实有通路可以导致发疯。这不是随意的200到400个不同基因，事实上，它们是互补的。它们在通路中结合。它们在神经网中互补，这样才会在大脑的功能中产生意义。我们开始用自上而下的方法来辨认那些基因，那些蛋白质、分子，理解它们如何互相作用使神经元工作，理解神经元如何相互作用来使神经中枢工作，理解神经中枢如何工作来控制行为，这些理解既针对自闭症个体，又针对认知正常的个体。但早期诊断对我们来说至关重要。能够在某一个时间点提早诊断出某人可能患有自闭症，并在我们还有能力对正在发育的大脑进行改变和影响的时候，及时作出诊断是相当重要的。比如Ami Klin这样的团队已经开发了一些方法能够在新生儿，婴儿身上，借助生物标记物，这里也就是眼神接触和追踪，来确认婴儿的患病风险。你们可以看到，这个婴儿和这位女士有很好的眼神交流，她在唱“织织织织，小蜘蛛……”，事实上它不会患自闭症。我们知道，这个婴儿没问题。而在另一个例子中，这个婴儿将会发展成自闭症。你们可以看到，这个孩子没有进行眼神接触。它没有进行目光聚焦并形成社交联系，而是看着嘴巴、鼻子，以及其他方向，但总是没有社交联系，能够大范围地做这些测试，利用强大可靠的方式对婴儿和儿童进行自闭症筛查，将会帮助我们及早发现自闭症并做出最及时的干预治疗。
en:As we did this, though,it was really quite humbling,because we realized that there was not simplyone gene for autism.In fact, the current estimates arethat there are 200 to 400 different genesthat can cause autism.And that explains, in part,why we see such a broad spectrumin terms of its effects.Although there are that many genes,there is some method to the madness.It&#39;s not simply random200, 400 different genes,but in fact they fit together.They fit together in a pathway.They fit together in a networkthat&#39;s starting to make sense nowin terms of how the brain functions.We&#39;re starting to have a bottom-up approachwhere we&#39;re identifying those genes,those proteins, those molecules,understanding how they interact togetherto make that neuron work,understanding how those neurons interact togetherto make circuits work,and understand how those circuits workto now control behavior,and understand that both in individuals with autismas well as individuals who have normal cognition.But early diagnosis is a key for us.Being able to make that diagnosisof someone who&#39;s susceptibleat a time in a windowwhere we have the ability to transform,to be able to impactthat growing, developing brain is critical.And so folks like Ami Klin have developed methodsto be able to take infants, small babies,and be able to use biomarkers,in this case eye contact and eye tracking,to identify an infant at risk.This particular infant, you can see,making very good eye contact with this womanas she&#39;s singing &quot;Itsy, Bitsy Spider,&quot;in fact is not going to develop autism.This baby we know is going to be in the clear.On the other hand, this other babyis going to go on to develop autism.In this particular child, you can see,it&#39;s not making good eye contact.Instead of the eyes focusing inand having that social connection,looking at the mouth, looking at the nose,looking off in another direction,but not again socially connecting,and being able to do this on a very large scale,screen infants, screen children for autism,through something very robust, very reliable,is going to be very helpful to us in terms of beingable to intervene at an early stagewhen we can have the greatest impact.
时间：12:55
zh-cn:那么我们要如何诊治呢？这可能是多重因素的结合。某些情况下，在一些个体上我们会尝试使用药物。事实上，甄别自闭症的基因非常重要，可以使我们锁定用药目标，也可以使我们能找到干预的方法，并确认这是对付自闭症可以采取的方式。但这不会是唯一答案。除了药物，我们也会使用教育策略。自闭症个体各自有不同的思维方式。他们以不同的方式学习。他们以不同的方式吸收学习环境，而我们需要能够以最适合他们的方式来帮助他们。此外，在场的还有许多人有出色的想法和新技术可以供我们借鉴，我们可以运用一些设备用来训练大脑，让它更高效，还可以为一些仍然有技术困难的领域提供更行之有效的方法，甚至可以使用谷歌眼镜。例如，你们可以想象有社交障碍的戈贝尔，也许能带上谷歌眼镜再戴上一副耳机，耳边就可以有一个老师帮助他，帮助他思考对话，能够积极开启对话，也许有一天他甚至能约女孩上街。
en:How are we going to intervene?It&#39;s probably going to be a combination of factors.In part, in some individuals,we&#39;re going to try and use medications.And so in fact, identifying the genes for autismis important for usto identify drug targets,to identify things that we might be able to impactand can be certain that that&#39;s reallywhat we need to do in autism.But that&#39;s not going to be the only answer.Beyond just drugs, we&#39;re goingto use educational strategies.Individuals with autism,some of them are wired a little bit differently.They learn in a different way.They absorb their surroundings in a different way,and we need to be able to educate themin a way that serves them best.Beyond that, there are a lot of individualsin this room who have great ideasin terms of new technologies we can use,everything from devices we can use to train the brainto be able to make it more efficientand to compensate for areas in whichit has a little bit of trouble,to even things like Google Glass.You could imagine, for instance, Gabriel,with his social awkwardness,might be able to wear Google Glasswith an earpiece in his ear,and have a coach be able to help him,be able to help think about conversations,conversation-starters,being able to even perhaps one dayinvite a girl out on a date.
时间：14:09
zh-cn:所有这些新技术都提供了极大的机会，帮助我们诊断和干预自闭症个体的症状。但我们还有很长一段路要走。正如我们所知，我们不知道的还有如此之多。所以，我在此邀请你们所有人帮助我们思考如何将它做得更好，利用我们的集体智慧，来做出改变，尤其是，有自闭症家族史的个体，我诚邀你们加入网络互动自闭症研究，为治疗方案贡献自己的力量，因为，这需要我们众人一起来思考什么才是重要的，如何做出有意义的改变。当我们想到一些有潜力的解决方案，它到底可以有多大成效？是否会为自闭症患者的个人生活，家庭生活，带来真正积极的影响？我们将会需要各个年龄层的个体，青年到老年，需要拥有自闭症谱系失调中各种症状的个体来确保我们的影响广泛有力。所以我们邀请在座所有人加入这个项目，并帮助改善自闭症个体的生活状态，让他们的生活越来越美好。谢谢（掌声）
en:All of these new technologiesjust offer tremendous opportunitiesfor us to be able to impactthe individuals with autism,but yet we have a long way to go.As much as we know,there is so much more that we don&#39;t know,and so I invite all of youto be able to help us think abouthow to do this better,to use as a community our collective wisdomto be able to make a difference,and in particular,for the individuals in families with autism,I invite you to join the interactive autism network,to be part of the solution to this,because it&#39;s going to take really a lot of usto think about what&#39;s important,what&#39;s going to be a meaningful difference.As we think about somethingthat&#39;s potentially a solution,how well does it work?Is it something that&#39;s reallygoing to make a differencein your lives, as an individual,as a family with autism?We&#39;re going to need individuals of all ages,from the young to the old,and with all different shapes and sizesof the autism spectrum disorderto make sure that we can have an impact.So I invite all of you to join the missionand to help to be able to make the livesof individuals with autismso much better and so much richer.Thank you.(Applause)
