时间： 0:11
zh-cn:有一天我和妻子走在市场上，有人往我面前递上一个笼子笼子的缝隙后是我今生所见过最悲伤的眼睛。我最初见到的，是一个病得非常厉害的猩猩宝宝。当晚我摸黑回到那个市集我听到“呜，呜”的啜泣声果然﹐我在垃圾堆上发现一个正在死去的小猩猩。笼子被丢弃了我抱起这小猩猩，在牠身上揉揉，强迫牠喝点水直到牠开始正常地呼吸。
en:I was walking in the market one day with my wife,and somebody stuck a cage in my face.And in between those slitswere the saddest eyes I&#39;ve ever seen.There was a very sick orangutan baby, my first encounter.That evening I came back to the market in the darkand I heard &quot;uhh, uhh,&quot;and sure enough I found a dying orangutan baby on a garbage heap.Of course, the cage was salvaged.I took up the little baby,massaged her, forced her to drinkuntil she finally started breathing normally.
时间： 0:44
zh-cn:这是Ｕce。现在牠住在Sungai Wain保护林区，而这是Matahari，牠的第二个孩子，事实上牠也是我救来的第二个红毛猩猩Dodoy的孩子。这件事戏剧性地改变了我的生命，到今天为止，在我的两个中心里，已有将近一千只小猩猩。
en:This is Uce.She&#39;s now living in the jungle of Sungai Wain,and this is Matahari, her second son,which, by the way, is also the son of the second orangutan I rescued, Dodoy.That changed my life quite dramatically,and as of today, I have almost 1,000 babies in my two centers.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 1:04
zh-cn:不，不，不。错了。这很糟糕。这不过证明我们失败了，我们无法在野外救活牠们。这很不好。这仅表明每个人在他们该做的事上失败了。几乎所有的红毛猩猩都活在世界上的动物园里，那些现在受害的猩猩宝宝，其中已经有六只消失在森林中了。
en:No. No. No. Wrong.It&#39;s horrible. It&#39;s a proof of our failing to save them in the wild.It&#39;s not good.This is merely proof of everyone failing to do the right thing.Having more than all the orangutans in all the zoos in the world together,just now like victims for every baby,six have disappeared from the forest.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:伐林，尤其是为了栽种油棕榈而滥砍林木，以提供西方国家生质燃料是造成这些问题的主因。这是二十公尺长的泥炭沼泽，蕴藏世界上最多的有机物质。开垦泥炭沼泽来种棕榈树就像制造一座座喷发二氧化碳的火山群这将会排放非常多的二氧化碳我的国家已成为全球温室气体排放的第三大国，名列中国与美国之后，而我们却是个毫无工业的国家。就只因为滥采森林。
en:The deforestation, especially for oil palm,to provide biofuel for Western countriesis what&#39;s causing these problems.And those are the peat swamp forests on 20 meters of peat,the largest accumulation of organic material in the world.When you open this for growing oil palmsyou&#39;re creating CO2 volcanoesthat are emitting so much CO2that my country is now the third largest emitter of greenhouse gasses in the world,after China and the United States.And we don&#39;t have any industry at all —it&#39;s only because of this deforestation.
时间： 2:00
zh-cn:这些是可怕的图像。我今天不会花太多时间说这些，但是有许许多多Uce家庭成员很不幸地依然住在那森林里依然必须经历那过程而我已不知道要将牠们安置在哪些安全的地方了。于是，我决定必须要为牠想出一个解决方案而这一解决方案也让采伐森林的人们同样受益让他们经手最后一片森林那将会失去那些受害者与栖息地。
en:And these are horrible images.I&#39;m not going to talk too long about it,but there are so many of the family of Uce,which are not so fortunate to live out there in the forest,that still have to go through that process.And I don&#39;t know anymore where to put them.So I decided that I had to come up with a solution for herbut also a solutionthat will benefit the people that are trying to exploit those forests,to get their hands on the last timberand that are causing, in that way,the loss of habitat and all those victims.
时间： 2:34
zh-cn:所以我创造一个叫Samboja Lestari的地方我的想法是，如果我可以在我想象的到最糟糕最不可能的地方完成这件事从一个什么都没有了的地方那么就没有人会有借口说，“对啊，但是...”不会有。这会是每一个人都可以依循的步骤。
en:So I created the place Samboja Lestari,and the idea was,if I can do this on the worst possible place that I can think ofwhere there is really nothing left,no one will have an excuse to say, &quot;Yeah, but ...&quot;No. Everyone should be able to follow this.
时间： 2:51
zh-cn:所以我们现在在婆罗洲东部。这是我开始着手的地方。诚如你所见到的，这里原先只有一片枯黄荒地什么也不剩，只剩一丁点儿小草2002年间我们这里有将近百分之五十的人没有工作存在着为数甚多的犯罪。当地人在医疗与饮水上花费很多钱农业生产力所剩无几这是全省最贫穷的区域所有野生动植物已经完全灭绝就像生物学上的一片沙漠当我站在这片草地上，我只觉得热 — 那里甚至没有一点儿虫子的声音 —只剩这些摇动的草。
en:So we&#39;re in East Borneo. This is the place where I started.As you can see there&#39;s only yellow terrain.There&#39;s nothing left — just a bit of grass there.In 2002 we had about 50 percent of the people jobless there.There was a huge amount of crime.People spent so much of their money on health issues and drinking water.There was no agricultural productivity left.This was the poorest district in the whole provinceand it was a total extinction of wildlife.This was like a biological desert.When I stood there in the grass, it&#39;s hot — not even the sound of insects —just this waving grass.
时间： 3:29
zh-cn:尽管如此，四年后我们在此提供了３０００个就业机会。那里的气候也改变了。我将为你们展示：再也没有水灾，再也没有火灾。这里也不再是最贫穷的区域了，而且此地的生物多样性也得到巨幅地发展。我们得到超过一千以上的物种，至今有１３７种鸟类。我们有３０种爬虫类。
en:Still, four years later we have created jobs for about 3,000 people.The climate has changed. I will show you:no more flooding, no more fires.It&#39;s no longer the poorest district,and there is a huge development of biodiversity.We&#39;ve got over 1,000 species. We have 137 bird species as of today.We have 30 species of reptiles.
时间： 3:52
zh-cn:所以，这里到底发生了什么事? 我们在森林中制造了巨大的经济损害。基本上这些全部的毁坏过程已经得到减缓，但我们见到一样的事—我们使用火耕；人们买不起化肥所以他们燃烧一半的树木与当地现有一半的矿产。火灾变得经常发生过一阵子你又被困在一块完全无法耕种的土地上。没有一棵树存留。然而在这个地方，在这片草地上你可以见到山丘上有我们最初的办公室，四年下来，一片绿地在地球表面出现了...
en:So what happened here? We created a huge economic failure in this forest.So basically the whole process of destructionhad gone a bit slower than what is happening now with the oil palm.But we saw the same thing.We had slash and burn agriculture;people cannot afford the fertilizer,so they burn the trees and have the minerals available there;the fires become more frequent,and after a while you&#39;re stuck with an area of landwhere there is no fertility left.There are no trees left.Still, in this place, in this grasslandwhere you can see our very first office there on that hill,four years later, there is this one green blop on the Earth&#39;s surface ...
时间： 4:33
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 4:35
zh-cn:这里有这些动物，这些快乐的人们，而且还有经济价值。
en:And there are all these animals, and all these people happy,and there&#39;s this economic value.
时间： 4:40
zh-cn:这怎么可能呢？如果你看看这步骤，你会发现很简单：我们买下这块地，处理火灾，然后开始植林混合农业与林业。在那时我们建立基础设施、管理、以及财政措施。但我们必须确定每一个当地居民都全然参与计划这样就没有外部的力量会介入。这使得当地人成为那片林地的保护者。我们以“人民、利益、地球”的原则，并且更进一步地我们建立一个确定的法律地位因为如果森林属于国家人们会说，它属于我，它属于每一个人。我们也应用其它原则比如说透明化、专业评估管理可扩展性、往复性...等等。
en:So how&#39;s this possible?It was quite simple. If you&#39;ll look at the steps:we bought the land, we dealt with the fire,and then only, we started doing the reforestationby combining agriculture with forestry.Only then we set up the infrastructure and management and the monetary.But we made sure that in every step of the waythe local people were going to be fully involvedso that no outside forces would be able to interfere with that.The people would become the defenders of that forest.So we do the &quot;people, profit, planet&quot; principles,but we do it in additionto a sure legal status —because if the forest belongs to the state,people say, &quot;It belongs to me, it belongs to everyone.&quot;And then we apply all these other principleslike transparency, professional management, measurable results,scalability, [unclear], etc.
时间： 5:31
zh-cn:我们所做的是制定配方如何从一开始甚么都没有的情况向一个目标前进。你根据可以控制的因素，制定一个配方无论选择技术、化肥、或树种。你观测结果，并且测量它。在这配方里你同时包含了成本。你要知道需要付出多少劳动力。如果你可以把这配方丢在地图上、在沙质土壤上、在粘土壤上、在陡峭的斜坡、在平地上的土壤上、你配置这些不同的食谱；如果将它们结合起来，从之而来的一个商业计划、以及从之而来的工作计划，你可以对其进行优化可以针对现有的可供劳动力、或现有的肥料，来完成这计划。
en:What we did was we formulated recipes —how to go from a starting situation where you have nothingto a target situation.You formulate a recipe based upon the factors you can control,whether it be the skills or the fertilizer or the plant choice.And then you look at the outputs and you start measuring what comes out.Now in this recipe you also have the cost.You also know how much labor is needed.If you can drop this recipe on the mapon a sandy soil, on a clay soil,on a steep slope, on flat soil,you put those different recipes; if you combine them,out of that comes a business plan,comes a work plan, and you can optimize itfor the amount of labor you have available or for the amount of fertilizer you have,and you can do it.
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:这就是实行这个计划所看起来的样子。我们要摆脱这片荒草地。它从根处散发着化合物合欢树是一个经济价值非常低的植物但我们需要它们来恢复微气候，以保护土壤并打开这片荒草地。8年后，这里可能真会产生一些木材，也就是说，如果你可以以正确的方法维护它，我们能做出竹子幼芽这是一个古老发源自日本的建筑庙宇的技术但竹子非常容易着火。所以要是我们一开始就种植竹子的话我们要承担失去一切的高风险所以我们晚点儿种它，沿着水道过滤水，只在木材可供使用时提供原产品。
en:This is how it looks like in practice. We have this grass we want to get rid of.It exudes [unclear]-like compounds from the roots.The acacia trees are of a very low valuebut we need them to restore the micro-climate, to protect the soiland to shake out the grasses.And after eight years they might actually yield some timber —that is, if you can preserve it in the right way,which we can do with bamboo peels.It&#39;s an old temple-building technique from Japanbut bamboo is very fire-susceptible.So if we would plant that in the beginningwe would have a very high risk of losing everything again.So we plant it later, along the waterwaysto filter the water, provide the raw productsjust in time for when the timber becomes available.
时间： 7:01
zh-cn:这样的想法是：如何在一定的时间与空间内，使用有限的工具与策略，汇聚资源。因此我们栽种这些树，栽种菠萝同时种植豆类和生姜在它们之中，以减少树木与树木之间的竞争，作物肥料—有机物质是对农作物有益的，对人们也是有益的，它也帮助树木生长，农民有免费土地，系统获得初期收益，红毛猩猩也获得健康食物我们可以加快生态系统的再生这期间甚至也可以省下一些钱。
en:So the idea is: how to integrate these flowsin space, over time and with the limited means you have.So we plant the trees, we plant these pineapplesand beans and ginger in between, to reduce the competition for the trees,the crop fertilizer. Organic material is useful for the agricultural crops,for the people, but also helps the trees. The farmers have free land,the system yields early income, the orangutans get healthy foodand we can speed up ecosystem regenerationwhile even saving some money.
时间： 7:32
zh-cn:美丽极了。多好的理论。
en:So beautiful. What a theory.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:但是，它真的那么容易吗？不见得，因为如果你回顾1998年所发生的事情，火灾发生了。这是一个面积约5千万公顷的林地。一月。二月。三月。四月。五月。我们在短短几个月之内失去了五百五十万公顷的林地。因为我们有10,000次左右的这种地下火灾在美国宾州也有。一旦土壤变得干燥，旱季会出现裂缝，氧气渗入，火灾随而发生，问题又会重新开始。
en:But is it really that easy?Not really, because if you looked at what happened in 1998,the fire started.This is an area of about 50 million hectares.January.February.March.April.May.We lost 5.5 million hectares in just a matter of a few months.This is because we have 10,000 of those underground firesthat you also have in Pennsylvania here in the United States.And once the soil gets dried, you&#39;re in a dry season — you get cracks,oxygen goes in, flames come out and the problem starts all over again.
时间： 8:10
zh-cn:因此，如何打破这种循环呢？火灾是最大的问题。这是三个月看起来的样子。三个月间，外头儿的自动照明没有熄灭因为是那么黑。我们失去了所有的作物，一年间没有一个孩子增加体重。他们还失去了12点的智商；这对猩猩和人来说都是一场灾难。因此，火灾是首先真正要处理的工作。这就是为什么我在这里把它作为一个单一重点。您需要当地人民，因为这些草原，一旦开始燃烧，它就会像一场暴风使你再度失去最后的灰烬与养分直到第一场雨落到海浬让珊瑚礁也死去为止。
en:So how to break that cycle?Fire is the biggest problem.This is what it looked like for three months.For three months, the automatic lights outside did not go offbecause it was that dark.We lost all the crops. No children gained weight for over a year;they lost 12 IQ points. It was a disasterfor orangutans and people.So these fires are really the first things to work on.That was why I put it as a single point up there.And you need the local people for that because these grasslands,once they start burning ... It goes through it like a windstormand you lose again the last bit of ash and nutrientsto the first rainfall — going to the seakilling off the coral reefs there.
时间： 8:52
zh-cn:所以，你必须与当地人民一起做。上述仅仅只是短期的解决办法，而你还需要一个长期的解决办法。为此，我们设置了一个以糖棕榈树围绕出来的一个区域。这些糖棕榈树形成一个防火亦防洪的天然设施。并且为当地人民提供了大量的收入。
en:So you have to do it with the local people.That is the short-term solution but you also need a long-term solution.So what we did is, we createda ring of sugar palms around the area.These sugar palms turn out to be fire-resistant —also flood-resistant, by the way —and they provide a lot of income for local people.
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:这看起来是这样的：人们只在这些树上刮采几毫米片，一日两次，仅仅采收糖水，二氧化碳、降雨量和一点点的阳光原则上你使那些树木成为生物光伏电池。因为他们每年每公顷可以产出3倍以上的能源，因为你可以将之用于日常工作，您可以从这里制造许多的能源。您不必采集器官或任何其它的作物。
en:This is what it looks like:the people have to tap them twice a day — just a millimeter slice —and the only thing you harvest is sugar water,carbon dioxide, rain fall and a little bit of sunshine.In principle, you make those trees intobiological photovoltaic cells.And you can create so much energy from this —they produce three times more energy per hectare per year,because you can tap them on a daily basis.You don&#39;t need to harvest [unclear]or any other of the crops.
时间： 9:42
zh-cn:因此，这是我们在热带所能有的遗传潜力结合它尚未被开发，并且正藉由科技整合做着但此外，你也要有很好的法律知识所以我们卖下那整块地这就是我们开始这项计划的所在之处，在一片蛮荒之中。如果你放大一点，你可以看到所有的这区域已被不同类型的土壤划分开来，事实上，我们仔细考虑财务状况测量在这5000顷长，2000顷宽地里的所有树木。这个森林很不同。
en:So this is the combination where we have all this genetic potential in the tropics,which is still unexploited, and doing it in combination with technology.But also your legal side needs to be in very good order.So we bought that land,and here is where we started our project —in the middle of nowhere.And if you zoom in a bit you can see that all of this areais divided into strips that go over different types of soil,and we were actually monitoring,measuring every single tree in these 2,000 hectares, 5,000 acres.And this forest is quite different.
时间：10:19
zh-cn:我们真正做的只是依自然的性质，而自然本身是不了解何谓单种栽培的，且自然森林有多种层次。这意谓着，森林可以较好地利用地面以及地面以上的光，可以在生态系统中储存更多碳，提供更多功能，然而这也较为复杂，并不像表面上那么容易，你需要与当地居民合作，一起工作。
en:What I really did was I just followed nature,and nature doesn&#39;t know monocultures,but a natural forest is multilayered.That means that both in the ground and above the groundit can make better use of the available light,it can store more carbon in the system, it can provide more functions.But, it&#39;s more complicated. It&#39;s not that simple, and you have to work with the people.
时间：10:41
zh-cn:所以我们的作法是仿效自然，种植快速生长的树木，同时在那之下我们种植生长较为慢的植物，也就是非常高多样性的初级粮作林木使它们得以较好地利用阳光同样重要的是：它们得以取得适当的菌类这些菌类可以附着生长于它们的叶内，从24小时内掉落的叶子中带养分回树根之中。他们会成为养分泵而你也需要土壤中的固氮微生物若少了这些微生物，你将不会有任何成果。
en:So, just like nature,we also grow fast planting trees and underneath that,we grow the slower growing, primary-grain forest trees of a very high diversitythat can optimally use that light. Then,what is just as important: get the right fungi in therethat will grow into those leaves, bring back the nutrientsto the roots of the trees that have just dropped that leaf within 24 hours.And they become like nutrient pumps.You need the bacteria to fix nitrogen,and without those microorganisms, you won&#39;t have any performance at all.
时间：11:16
zh-cn:接着，我们着手开始植林 — 一天只栽种1000棵树。事实上我们可以栽种更多，但我们不想因为我们希望保持稳定的就业数量。我们不希望失去人他们要在林业上工作。而我们有许多工作要做。我们使用指标性植物观测土壤类型，看看什么植物或什么树种会生长出来。我们在这区域内已经监测了每一棵树。
en:And then we started planting — only 1,000 trees a day.We could have planted many, many more, but we didn&#39;t want tobecause we wanted to keep the number of jobs stable.We didn&#39;t want to lose the peoplethat are going to work in that plantation.And we do a lot of work here.We use indicator plants to look at what soil types,or what vegetables will grow, or what trees will grow here.And we have monitored every single one of those trees from space.
时间：11:46
zh-cn:这是它现实中看起来的样子，你在这周围有不规则环，100公尺宽的的环带内种植的是糖棕榈可以提供648个家庭生计。这只是此区域的一个小部分。
en:This is what it looks like in reality;you have this irregular ring around it,with strips of 100 meters wide, with sugar palmsthat can provide income for 648 families.It&#39;s only a small part of the area.
时间：12:00
zh-cn:这里的培植区是相当不同的。如果你看我们树木种类的树木，比如说欧洲好了，从俄罗斯的乌拉尔到英格兰，你知道有多少吗？165。在这里的培植区，我们要种植10倍以上的树种。你们能想象吗？你必须知道你正在做什么，但恰恰是多样性使计划得以运作。使你可以从零开始，借着种植蔬菜与树木，或着直接栽种树木，在那草原线上，设置缓冲区，生产堆肥，然后，确保正在成长的森林的每一个阶段都有庄稼可供使用。一开始，可能先是菠萝、苹果、和玉米。第二阶段，会有香蕉和木瓜。接着，会有椰子和辣椒。然后慢慢地，树木开始接管，从水果、从木材、从薪柴，带来产出，最终，糖棕榈接管供给人们永久的收入。
en:The nursery, in here, is quite different.If you look at the number of tree species we have in Europe, for instance,from the Urals up to England, you know how many?165.In this nursery, we&#39;re going to grow 10 times more than the number of species.Can you imagine?You do need to know what you are working with,but it&#39;s that diversity which makes it work.That you can go from this zero situation,by planting the vegetables and the trees, or directly, the treesin the lines in that grass there,putting up the buffer zone, producing your compost,and then making sure that at every stage of that up growing forestthere are crops that can be used.In the beginning, maybe pineapples and beans and corn;in the second phase, there will be bananas and papayas;later on, there will be chocolate and chilies.And then slowly, the trees start taking over,bringing in produce from the fruits, from the timber, from the fuel wood.And finally, the sugar palm forest takes overand provides the people with permanent income.
时间：13:00
zh-cn:在左上角，下面这些绿色条纹，你看到一些白点 — 这些实际上是个别的菠萝树你可以从太空中看见在这些区域，我们开始栽种越来越多的合欢树如同你们之前所见到的这是一年后的样子。这是两年后。如果你从电塔看过去这是我们开始着手的地方。我们栽种幼苗混合香蕉、番木瓜、以及所有当地居民的作物，但同时树木也在它们之间快速成长于是三年后， 我们有了137种鸟类。
en:On the top left, underneath those green stripes,you see some white dots — those are actually individual pineapple plantsthat you can see from space.And in that area we started growing some acacia treesthat you just saw before.So this is after one year.And this is after two years.And that&#39;s green. If you look from the tower —this is when we start attacking the grass.We plant in the seedlingsmixed with the bananas, the papayas, all the crops for the local people,but the trees are growing up fast in between as well.And three years later, 137 species of birds are living here.
时间：13:38
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
时间：13:44
zh-cn:我们降低了当地摄氏3至5度的气温。空气湿度增加了百分之十。云层积聚—我会展示给你们看。降雨量增多了。所有这些作物种类为人们赚取了收入。
en:So we lowered air temperature three to five degrees Celsius.Air humidity is up 10 percent.Cloud cover — I&#39;m going to show it to you — is up.Rainfall is up.And all these species and income.
时间：13:56
zh-cn:我在这里建立的生态区，三年前是空无一物，一片枯黄。这是我们与欧洲太空总署一同合作运转的无线电发射接收器它带给我们利益是，校整每一个接近的卫星系统，摄下卫星照片。我们使用这些图片分析碳汇与森林的成长，我们可以透过卫星照片监控每一棵树，我们现在可以利用这些数据提供其它地区我们的工作方法以及相同的技术。事实上我们已经在Google Earth上运作了。如果你想使用一点新科技，在卡车上装置追踪系统并且同时使用Google Earth你可以直接辨别出哪一颗油棕榈是可持续地生产着，也可以知道哪些人正在盗采林木，你可以储存更多的碳汇比起任何节能措施都还要好
en:This ecolodge that I built here,three years before, was an empty, yellow field.This transponder that we operate with the European Space Agency —it gives us the benefit that every satellite that comes over to calibrate itselfis taking a picture.Those pictures we use to analyze how much carbon, how the forest is developing,and we can monitor every tree using satellite images through our cooperation.We can use these data nowto provide other regions with recipes and the same technology.We actually have it already with Google Earth.If you would use a little bit of your technology to put tracking devices in trucks,and use Google Earth in combination with that,you could directly tell what palm oil has been sustainably produced,which company is stealing the timber,and you could save so much more carbonthan with any measure of saving energy here.
时间：14:48
zh-cn:这是Samboja地区，你可以测知树木长回来了，但你也测量到，此地也恢复了它的生物多样性。生物多样性是一个可以测量水平衡的指标，测量有多少药方得以保留在此区域最后，我把它打造成为一个造雨机因为现在森林自己可以开始造雨了。附近这座城Balikpapan有很严重的水资源问题，它被百分之八十的海水围绕，而现在我们得到了许多水进入地质岩层中。现在，我们来看看这个森林上的云，我们所看到的是造林区、半开放区、和开放区。
en:So this is the Samboja Lestari area.You measure how the trees grow back,but you can also measure the biodiversity coming back.And biodiversity is an indicator of how much water can be balanced,how many medicines can be kept here.And finally I made it into the rain machinebecause this forest is now creating its own rain.This nearby city of Balikpapan has a big problem with water;it&#39;s 80 percent surrounded by seawater,and we have now a lot of intrusion there.Now we looked at the clouds above this forest;we looked at the reforestation area, the semi-open area and the open area.
时间：15:26
zh-cn:再看看这些图片。我会很快地带过它们。在热带地区，雨水不是由冰晶形成的，好比温带地区的情况，你需要化学成分从树叶中产出这才会开始产生降雨。所以若创造一块可以累积云层的阴凉区域，你就会有可以产生降雨的林木。你们看，现在已经增加了百分之11.2的云，这是在整整三年后才有的。如果你看看降雨，在那个时候已经高达百分之20了。让我们看看下一年，你可以看到，这趋势将持续下去。一开始的我们有一小撮较高的降雨量雨量越来越宽也越来越高。再来倘若我们看看降雨模式在Samboja Lestari 之上，这里曾经是最干旱的地方，但现在你们可以见到这里已形成一个降雨高峰的区块。所以是真的可以改变气候的。当然，如果有信风形成的话，降雨的效应会消失，然而之后，一旦风稳定下来，你们看到降雨高峰会再回来这一区域。
en:And look at these images.I&#39;ll just run them very quickly through.In the tropics, raindrops are not formed from ice crystals,which is the case in the temperate zones,you need the trees with [unclear], chemicals that come out of the leaves of the treesthat initiate the raindrops.So you create a cool place where clouds can accumulate,and you have the trees to initiate the rain.And look, there&#39;s now 11.2 percent more clouds —already, after three years.If you look at rainfall, it was already up 20 percent at that time.Let&#39;s look at the next year,and you can see that that trend is continuing.Where at first we had a small cap of higher rainfall,that cap is now widening and getting higher.And if we look at the rainfall patternabove Samboja Lestari, it used to be the driest place,but now you see consistently see a peak of rain forming there.So you can actually change the climate.When there are trade winds of course the effect disappears,but afterwards, as soon as the wind stabilizes,you see again that the rainfall peaks come back above this area.
时间：16:36
zh-cn:所以，不要说什么这是没有希望的话，因为我们事实上真的可以改变什么如果你整合若干技术的话。科技其实是很棒的，但这仍取决于人，取决于你的教育投注之上。我们有自己的农业学校。但真正成功的，是我们的乐队因为如果有孩子出生的话， 我们会演出，所以每一个人都是我们的家庭一员而且你不会为你的家人制造麻烦。
en:So to say it is hopeless is not the right thing to do,because we actually can make that differenceif you integrate the various technologies.And it&#39;s nice to have the science, but it still depends mostly upon the people,on your education.We have our farmer schools.But the real success of course, is our band —because if a baby is born, we will play, so everyone&#39;s our familyand you don&#39;t make trouble with your family.
时间：17:03
zh-cn:这是看起来的样子。我们有一条路经过这区带给人电力和水。我们有糖棕榈区，我们也为这种多刺的棕榈设置围网把红毛猩猩与人类隔离开来 — 我们在这块区域中提供牠们栖息处而里头我们有造林区作为基因银行，使所有的材料存活着，因为在过去12年没有一株热带硬木树的幼苗长大因为气候因素已经消失。所有的种子都被吃掉了。
en:This is how it looks.We have this road going around the area,which brings the people electricity and water from our own area.We have the zone with the sugar palms,and then we have this fence with very thorny palmsto keep the orangutans — that we provide with a place to live in the middle —and the people apart.And inside, we have this area for reforestationas a gene bank to keep all that material alive,because for the last 12 yearsnot a single seedling of the tropical hardwood trees has grown upbecause the climatic triggers have disappeared.All the seeds get eaten.
时间：17:38
zh-cn:因此，我们现在作内部监督透过电塔、卫星、显示屏幕等。每一个出售自己的土地的家庭现在可获得一块土地回来。而且它有两个好的热带硬木树作为围栏，你可以在第一年种植有树荫的林木，接着，在那之下种植糖棕榈树，然后再设置这有刺围网。过几年后，你可以移去这些制造树荫的林木，人们得到的合欢树可保存竹皮，可以用来盖房子，也可拿来烧柴做饭。然后他们可以开始尽其可能地从树上产出收益。他们也有足够的收入来维持家庭生计。然而，不管你在这项目上做甚么，都必须完全得到当地人的支持，也就是说，你还必须按照地方与文化价值作调整，各地各有不同，不存在单一配方。
en:So now we do the monitoring on the inside —from towers, satellites, ultralights.Each of the families that have sold their land now get a piece of land back.And it has two nice fences of tropical hardwood trees —you have the shade trees planted in year one,then you underplanted with the sugar palms,and you plant this thorny fence.And after a few years, you can remove some of those shade trees.The people get that acacia timber which we have preserved with the bamboo peel,and they can build a house, they have some fuel wood to cook with.And they can start producing from the trees as many as they like.They have enough income for three families.But whatever you do in that program, it has to be fully supported by the people,meaning that you also have to adjust it to the local, cultural values.There is no simple one recipe for one place.
时间：18:29
zh-cn:你也要确保腐败的行为是难以发生的，也就是确保透明性。就像Samboja Lestari这里，我们将这环内区域以20个家庭分为一组。假使其中一个成员违反协议，并且私采林木，其它19个家庭成员必须决定如何处置他。如果小组成员不作处置，那么，其它33个小组则必须决定如何处置这个不遵守协议的小组。
en:You also have to make sure that it is very difficult to corrupt —that it&#39;s transparent.Like here, in Samboja Lestari,we divide that ring in groups of 20 families.If one member trespasses the agreement,and does cut down trees,the other 19 members have to decide what&#39;s going to happen to him.If the group doesn&#39;t take action,the other 33 groups have to decide what is going to happen to the groupthat doesn&#39;t comply with those great deals that we are offering them.
时间：18:57
zh-cn:这是一种合作的组织方式，他们那儿有民主文化所以可以使用当地司法体系来保护你的系统。因此，概括地说，人们可以在一年内出售自己的土地获得收入，但他们找到工作，建设以及植树造林，与猩猩一起共事生活，他们可以利用废木料作工艺品。他们还可以在树林中得到免费的土地，在那儿他们可以种植农作物。现在他们可以出售部分水果给与红毛猩猩照护计划。他们得到房屋的建筑材料，销售糖的合约因此，我们可以在当地生产大量的乙醇和能源。他们以环保的方式所有这些其它利益，金钱他们还得以得到教育，很棒的生意。
en:In North Sulawesi it is the cooperative —they have a democratic culture there,so there you can use the local justice system to protect your system.In summary, if you look at it, in year one the people can sell their landto get income, but they get jobs back in the construction and the reforestation,the working with the orangutans, and they can use the waste wood to make handicraft.They also get free land in between the trees,where they can grow their crops.They can now sell part of those fruits to the orangutan project.They get building material for houses,a contract for selling the sugar,so we can produce huge amounts of ethanol and energy locally.They get all these other benefits: environmentally, money,they get education — it&#39;s a great deal.
时间：19:41
zh-cn:而所有的东西都取决于森林存在与否。因此，如果我们想要帮助红毛猩猩 —我实际上做的是 —我们必须确保当地人民是受益者。现在我认为，要完成这件事，真正的关键，简单地说，是整合。我希望 — 如果你想知道更多，你可以阅读更多相关知识。
en:And everything is based upon that one thing —make sure that forest remains there.So if we want to help the orangutans —what I actually set out to do —we must make sure that the local people are the ones that benefit.Now I think the real key to doing it, to give a simple answer,is integration.I hope — if you want to know more, you can read more.
时间：20:07
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
