时间： 0:12
zh-cn:1962 年，雷切尔·卡森写出了《寂静的春天》一书，对像我这样创作物品领域的人而言，矿坑中的黄丝雀不唱歌了。因此，“可能不再有鸟类”这个问题，对四处找寻似已消失的北美野云雀的我们变得至为根本。问题原本是：鸟在唱歌吗？我不是科学家，这一点是很明白的。但是，我们刚刚才讨论过「鸟」可能是什么。什么是「鸟」？在我的世界，这是个塑料鸭。它来自加州，附有警告：「此产品含有加州政府认定会造成癌症、畸胎、或其他生育伤害的化学物质。」这是一只鸟。怎样的文化会制造这种产品，标示后，又卖给儿童？我想我们有设计的问题。
en:In 1962, with Rachel Carson&#39;s &quot;Silent Spring,&quot;I think for people like me in the world of the making of things,the canary in the mine wasn&#39;t singing.And so the question that we might not have birdsbecame kind of fundamental to those of us wandering aroundlooking for the meadowlarks that seemed to have all disappeared.And the question was, were the birds singing?Now, I&#39;m not a scientist, that&#39;ll be really clear.But, you know, we&#39;ve just come from this discussion of what a bird might be.What is a bird?Well, in my world, this is a rubber duck.It comes in California with a warning —&quot;This product contains chemicals known by the State of Californiato cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive harm.&quot;This is a bird.What kind of culture would produce a product of this kindand then label it and sell it to children?I think we have a design problem.
时间： 1:16
zh-cn:有人听了我在全国公共电台讲六小时的「蒙提切罗对话」后，寄给我这个感谢词：「我们体认到设计是意图的信号，而它也必须发生在世界里，我们必须明白那个世界，以便使固有的智能注入我们的设计，因此当我们回顾我们所设计事物的基本状态，我们有必要回到原始条件去了解星球的运行系统及架构条件，我认为有个令人振奋的部分，即那里存有好的消息，因为该消息是充裕的消息，而不是稀少的消息，而我认为既然我们的文化现在如此残暴自虐，并对稀少及恐惧如此关切，我们可加上这充裕的另一面向，它是稳固的、由太阳驱动的，然后开始想象分享会是什么样子。」收到这个感觉不错。它只是一句话。亨利詹姆斯将会感到骄傲。我把它放在投影片底下，但显然，这是一时兴起的。
en:Someone heard the six hours of talk that I gavecalled &quot;The Monticello Dialogues&quot; on NPR, and sent me this as a thank you note —&quot;We realize that design is a signal of intention,but it also has to occur within a world,and we have to understand that world in order toimbue our designs with inherent intelligence,and so as we look back at the basic state of affairsin which we design, we, in a way, need to go to the primordial conditionto understand the operating system and the frame conditions of a planet,and I think the exciting part of that is the good news that&#39;s there,because the news is the news of abundance,and not the news of limits,and I think as our culture tortures itself nowwith tyrannies and concerns over limits and fear,we can add this other dimension of abundance that is coherent,driven by the sun, and start to imaginewhat that would be like to share.&quot;That was a nice thing to get.That was one sentence.Henry James would be proud.This is — I put it down at the bottom,but that was extemporaneous, obviously.
时间： 2:41
zh-cn:在我看来，根本的议题是，设计是人类意图的第一个信号。那么，我们的意图是什么，我们的意图会怎样 —如果我们早上醒来，我们设计着这个世界 —身为一个物种，我们的意图是什么？既然我们是优势物种。而那不只是掌理和统领的辩论，因为说真的，统领意味着掌理 —因为你如何统领你杀死的东西？而掌理也意味着统领，因为你无法掌理事情，如果你无法统领它。
en:The fundamental issue is that, for me,design is the first signal of human intentions.So what are our intentions, and what would our intentions be —if we wake up in the morning, we have designs on the world —well, what would our intention be as a speciesnow that we&#39;re the dominant species?And it&#39;s not just stewardship and dominion debate,because really, dominion is implicit in stewardship —because how could you dominate something you had killed?And stewardship&#39;s implicit in dominion,because you can&#39;t be steward of something if you can&#39;t dominate it.
时间： 3:12
zh-cn:因此，问题是：设计师的第一道问题是什么？现在身为守护者 — 例如国家，它拥有杀人、欺蒙等权利 —现在我们问守护者的问题是：我们是否有意、或我们打算如何去保障地区社会、缔造世界和平及拯救环境？但是我不知道这是个常见的争论。
en:So the question is, what is the first question for designers?Now, as guardians — let&#39;s say the state, for example,which reserves the right to kill, the right to be duplicitous and so on —the question we&#39;re asking the guardian at this point isare we meant, how are we meant,to secure local societies, create world peaceand save the environment?But I don&#39;t know that that&#39;s the common debate.
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:另一方面，商业相对而言是快速的、本质上有创意、效率高、且基本上是诚实的，因为如果没有互信我们很难保持企业的永续经营。因此，我们基本上使用商业工具来工作，但我们问它的问题是：我们要如何珍爱所有物种及其后代直到永远？因此我们以这个问题开始设计。因为今天我们了解的是现代文化采用的策略会导致悲剧。如果我们到现在还说：「嗯，我未料到会造成这样的全球暖化」，并且说：「那不是我原本的计划」，则我们知道，事实上这是我们所导致的后果。因为我们缺乏其他配套措施，才导致这些事的发生。
en:Commerce, on the other hand, is relatively quick,essentially creative, highly effective and efficient,and fundamentally honest, because we can&#39;t exchangevalue for very long if we don&#39;t trust each other.So we use the tools of commerce primarily for our work,but the question we bring to it is,how do we love all the children of all species for all time?And so we start our designs with that question.Because what we realize today is that modern cultureappears to have adopted a strategy of tragedy.If we come here and say, &quot;Well, I didn&#39;t intendto cause global warming on the way here,&quot;and we say, &quot;That&#39;s not part of my plan,&quot;then we realize it&#39;s part of our de facto plan.Because it&#39;s the thing that&#39;s happening because we have no other plan.
时间： 4:18
zh-cn:布什总统请我到白宫与联邦各部门开会，我指出他们好像没有计划。如果结局是要全球暖化，他们干得很好。如果结局是火力发电厂下风处儿童的汞中毒，因为他们扼杀了清净空气法案，因而我认为我们的教育方案应该重新订定为：「全部儿童脑死，一个不留」。
en:And I was at the White House for President Bush,meeting with every federal department and agency,and I pointed out that they appear to have no plan.If the end game is global warming, they&#39;re doing great.If the end game is mercury toxification of our childrendownwind of coal fire plants as they scuttled the Clean Air Act,then I see that our education programs should be explicitly defined as,&quot;Brain death for all children. No child left behind.&quot;
时间： 4:40
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:所以，问题是：有几个联邦官员准备好带着家人移居到俄亥俄州和宾州？因此如果你没有能让人愉悦的目的，那么你就如无头苍蝇四处乱窜，因为你看不到目标。因此也许我们可以想出一个策略来改变，那需要谦虚。在我从事的建筑师行业中，佷不幸地，「谦虚」和「建筑师」这两个词，从兰德的 《源泉》 一书后，就不曾在同段文字出现过。在场如果有人对这个「设计师的谦虚」概念有疑问，听听这句话：我们花了 5000 年才为行李箱装上轮子。因此，诚如 Kevin Kelly 所说，没有结局。是个无止境的赛局，我们身处在这个无止境的赛局中。因此称它为「从摇篮到摇篮」，我们的目标非常单纯。
en:So, the question is, how many federal officialsare ready to move to Ohio and Pennsylvania with their families?So if you don&#39;t have an endgame of something delightful,then you&#39;re just moving chess pieces around,if you don&#39;t know you&#39;re taking the king.So perhaps we could develop a strategy of change,which requires humility. And in my business as an architect,it&#39;s unfortunate the word &quot;humility&quot; and the word &quot;architect&quot;have not appeared in the same paragraph since &quot;The Fountainhead.&quot;So if anybody here has trouble with the concept of design humility,reflect on this — it took us 5,000 yearsto put wheels on our luggage.So, as Kevin Kelly pointed out, there is no endgame.There is an infinite game, and we&#39;re playing in that infinite game.And so we call it &quot;cradle to cradle,&quot;and our goal is very simple.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:这是我对白宫的简报。我们的目标是一个快乐而多元的、安全的、健康的及正义的世界，有着清净的空气、清净的水、土壤和电力 —经济地、均衡地、环保地及优雅地享用。
en:This is what I presented to the White House.Our goal is a delightfully diverse, safe, healthy and just world,with clean air, clean water, soil and power —economically, equitably, ecologically and elegantly enjoyed, period.
时间： 5:47
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:这句话中你有不喜欢的地方吗？哪一部分你不喜欢？所以我们要充分多元，即使记不住戴高乐被问及「当法国总统的感觉如何」时说了什么。他说：「你认为经营有 400 种奶酪的国家感觉如何？」但同时，我们知道我们的产品并不安全及健康。
en:What don&#39;t you like about this?Which part of this don&#39;t you like?So we realized we want full diversity,even though it can be difficult to remember what De Gaulle saidwhen asked what it was like to be President of France.He said, &quot;What do you think it&#39;s like trying to run a country with 400 kinds of cheese?&quot;But at the same time, we realize that our products are not safe and healthy.
时间： 6:09
zh-cn:因此当我们设计出了产品，我们微量分析其化学成份。这是Pendleton 公司的婴儿毯，它给你的小孩养分而不是导致孩子到老了就患上老年痴呆症。我们可以自问，何谓正义、正义是否盲了、或正义就是盲目？何时她的制服由白变黑？联合国已经宣布了水资源同样具有人权。干净的空气对每个需要呼吸的人是明显的事。这里有人不需要呼吸吗？干净的土壤是个关键问题 — 土壤硝化、墨西哥湾的死亡区。全是未处理的基本议题。我们已看到太阳能首先以风的形式在在北美大平原区打败了石化燃料的统治，因此石化业者逐渐退出市场。如果我们记得当亚玛尼亲王在成立石油输出国组织时，有人问他：｢石油时代何时会结束？｣不知你是否记得他的回答，他说：｢石器时代不是因为我们用完石头才结束的。｣我们看到世界上行为合于伦理的公司表现胜过那些不合伦理的。我们看到材料流的前景可虑。这是医院的显示器，从洛杉矶运到中国去。这个妇人将接触有毒的磷，放出四磅有毒的铅到她子孙的环境中，那是从铜来的。
en:So we&#39;ve designed productsand we analyzed chemicals down to the parts per million.This is a baby blanket by Pendleton that will give your child nutritioninstead of Alzheimer&#39;s later in life.We can ask ourselves, what is justice,and is justice blind, or is justice blindness?And at what point did that uniform turn from white to black?Water has been declared a human right by the United Nations.Air quality is an obvious thing to anyone who breathes.Is there anybody here who doesn&#39;t breathe?Clean soil is a critical problem — the nitrification, the dead zonesin the Gulf of Mexico.A fundamental issue that&#39;s not being addressed.We&#39;ve seen the first form of solar energythat&#39;s beat the hegemony of fossil fuels in the form of windhere in the Great Plains, and so that hegemony is leaving.And if we remember Sheikh Yamani when he formed OPEC,they asked him, &quot;When will we see the end of the age of oil?&quot;I don&#39;t know if you remember his answer, but it was,&quot;The Stone Age didn&#39;t end because we ran out of stones.&quot;We see that companies acting ethically in this worldare outperforming those that don&#39;t.We see the flows of materials in a rather terrifying prospect.This is a hospital monitor from Los Angeles, sent to China.This woman will expose herself to toxic phosphorous,release four pounds of toxic lead into her childrens&#39; environment,which is from copper.
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:另方面，我们看到希望的大好迹象。这是印度的 Venkataswamy 医师，他想出了大量保健的方法。他免费替 200 万人矫正视力。从材料流我们发现，汽车钢材不能再当汽车钢材，因为它的涂装含有：铋、锑、铜、等等污染物。所以它们变成了建材。另一方面，我们和 Berkshire Hathaway,Warren Buffett and Shaw Carpet 公司合作，它是世界最大的地毯公司。我们已开发了一种可持续循环利用的地毯，达到百万分之一的层次。上层是尼龙6，那可回收为己内酰胺，底层是聚烯烃 — 一种可无限次回收的热塑性塑料。如果我是鸟，左边的建筑对我是危险的。右边的建筑是我们为 The Gap 公司建的企业园区，屋顶上有原始的草原，将会成为我的是一项资产 — 筑巢的好地方。
en:On the other hand, we see great signs of hope.Here&#39;s Dr. Venkataswamy in India, who&#39;s figured outhow to do mass-produced health.He has given eyesight to two million people for free.We see in our material flows that car steels don&#39;t become car steel againbecause of the contaminants of the coatings —bismuth, antimony, copper and so on.They become building steel.On the other hand, we&#39;re working with Berkshire Hathaway,Warren Buffett and Shaw Carpet,the largest carpet company in the world.We&#39;ve developed a carpet that is continuously recyclable,down to the parts per million.The upper is Nylon 6 that can go back to caprolactam,the bottom, a polyolephine — infinitely recyclable thermoplastic.Now if I was a bird, the building on my left is a liability.The building on my right, which is our corporate campus for The Gapwith an ancient meadow, is an asset — its nesting grounds.
时间： 8:15
zh-cn:这是我的故乡。我在香港长大：600 万人住在 40 平方英哩土地上。旱季里，每四天只供水四小时。与土地的关系是这样的：农民在同一块地耕种了 4000 年。你不可能耕种同一块土地 4000 年而不知它的养分流向。我的童年夏日在华盛顿普捷湾度过，徜徉在初生及茁壮的树林里。我祖父曾是奥林匹克伐木工，因此我背负许多树木业障，正在设法消除。我在耶鲁大学读研究所，在这一栋柯比意风格的大楼里读书，我们这行感性地称它是「粗野主义」。如果我们看看建筑的世界，我们看到密斯 1928 年的柏林高塔，问题可能是：｢太阳在哪里？｣这也许对柏林可行，但我们把它盖在休斯敦，窗子全关着。并由于大部分产品显然不是设计供室内使用，这实质上是一个垂直的毒气室。
en:Here&#39;s where I come from. I grew up in Hong Kong,with six million people in 40 square miles.During the dry season, we had four hours of water every fourth day.And the relationship to landscape was that of farmers who have beenfarming the same piece of ground for 40 centuries.You can&#39;t farm the same piece of ground for 40 centurieswithout understanding nutrient flow.My childhood summers were in the Puget Sound of Washington,among the first growth and big growth.My grandfather had been a lumberjack in the Olympics,so I have a lot of tree karma I am working off.I went to Yale for graduate school,studied in a building of this style by Le Corbusier,affectionately known in our business as Brutalism.If we look at the world of architecture,we see with Mies&#39; 1928 tower for Berlin,the question might be, &quot;Well, where&#39;s the sun?&quot;And this might have worked in Berlin, but we built it in Houston,and the windows are all closed. And with most productsappearing not to have been designed for indoor use,this is actually a vertical gas chamber.
时间： 9:14
zh-cn:我在耶鲁时，正逢第一次能源危机，我设计了爱尔兰的第一个太阳能暖气房子，当时我是学生，建了那房子 —这让你感受到我的雄心。Richard Meiers 是我的老师之一 ，常来我桌前批评我，他会说：｢比尔，你要明白 —太阳能和建筑没什么关系。｣我猜他没有读过维特鲁威。1984 年，我们设计了美国第一栋所谓的「绿色办公室」，为环保局设计的。我们开始问生产商他们材料的成分。他们说：「它们都是适宜的，它们都合法，滚开吧。」当时全国唯一的室内质量研究是由 R.J. Reynolds 烟草公司所赞助，研究目的是要证明工作区的二手烟是无害的。
en:When I went to Yale, we had the first energy crisis,and I was designing the first solar-heated house in Irelandas a student, which I then built —which would give you a sense of my ambition.And Richard Meier, who was one of my teachers,kept coming over to my desk to give me criticism,and he would say, &quot;Bill, you&#39;ve got to understand- —solar energy has nothing to do with architecture.&quot;I guess he didn&#39;t read Vitruvius.In 1984, we did the first so-called &quot;green office&quot; in Americafor Environmental Defense.We started asking manufacturers what were in their materials.They said, &quot;They&#39;re proprietary, they&#39;re legal, go away.&quot;The only indoor quality work done in this country at that timewas sponsored by R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company,and it was to prove there was no dangerfrom secondhand smoke in the workplace.
时间： 9:58
zh-cn:因此，突然间，1969 年我从高中毕业，事情发生了，我们知道「丢弃」离我们而去了。记得我们习惯抛弃物品、我们有理由抛弃？而美国海洋及大气管理局的数据显示，像这个 —看到夏威夷上方的那块蓝色吗？那是太平洋环流。科学家近来抽取那边的浮游生物，他们发现六倍于浮游生物的塑料。被问到此事，他们说：「就像个阻塞的巨型马桶。」也许这就是抛弃。因此我们在找寻设计规则 —这是世界上最具多样性的树林，伊利安查亚，259 个树种，在「从摇篮到摇篮」书中有提到。那本书用的纸是聚合物。它不使用树木。书的第一章就叫做「这本书不是一棵树」。在诗里，玛格丽特爱特伍德写着：「我们把历史写在鱼皮上用熊的血写。」用了那么多聚合物，我们真正需要的是技术养分，并使用像树一样优雅的东西 —想想这样的一个设计习题：设计一样东西会造氧、固碳、固氮、滤水、储存太阳能为燃料、制造复合醣和食物、建立微型气候、随季节变色并能自我复制。那么，让我们砍了它并用它来书写吧？
en:So, all of a sudden, here I am, graduating from high school in 1969,and this happens, and we realize that &quot;away&quot; went away.Remember we used to throw things away, and we&#39;d point to away?And yet, NOAA has now shown us, for example —you see that little blue thing above Hawaii?That&#39;s the Pacific Gyre.It was recently dragged for plankton by scientists,and they found six times as much plastic as plankton.When asked, they said, &quot;It&#39;s kind of like a giant toilet that doesn&#39;t flush.&quot;Perhaps that&#39;s away.So we&#39;re looking for the design rules of this —this is the highest biodiversity of trees in the world, Irian Jaya,259 species of tree, and we described thisin the book, &quot;Cradle to Cradle.&quot;The book itself is a polymer. It is not a tree.That&#39;s the name of the first chapter — &quot;This Book is Not a Tree.&quot;Because in poetics, as Margaret Atwood pointed out,&quot;we write our history on the skin of fishwith the blood of bears.&quot;And with so much polymer, what we really needis technical nutrition, and to use somethingas elegant as a tree — imagine this design assignment:Design something that makes oxygen, sequesters carbon,fixes nitrogen, distills water, accrues solar energy as fuel,makes complex sugars and food, creates microclimates,changes colors with the seasons and self-replicates.Well, why don&#39;t we knock that down and write on it?
时间：11:15
zh-cn:（笑声）
en:(Laughter)
时间：11:21
zh-cn:因此，我们看的基准和大部分人是一样的 — 如：我付担得起吗？它有效吗？我喜欢它吗？我们更加上杰斐逊目标，因为我来自夏洛特斯维尔，那儿我有幸住托马斯杰斐逊设计的房子。我们加上生命、自由和追求幸福。如果我们来看竞争这个字，我相信你们都用过它。你知道吗，大部分人不知道它来自拉丁文 competare，意思是一起奋斗。就是奥林匹克运动员彼此训练的方式。他们一起锻练体能，然后竞争。威廉斯姐妹竞争 — 一人赢得温布尔登网球赛。因此我们一直在检视竞争的概念，一种一起向前迈进的合作概念。而目前中国政府 —我替中国政府工作 —已采取了这个方式。我们也检视「适者生存」，不是用在我们现代的竞争方式去把对方毁掉或打倒，而是一起适应、建立利基并一起成长，那样很好。
en:So, we&#39;re looking at the same criteriaas most people — you know, can I afford it?Does it work? Do I like it?We&#39;re adding the Jeffersonian agenda, and I come from Charlottesville,where I&#39;ve had the privilege of living in a house designed by Thomas Jefferson.We&#39;re adding life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.Now if we look at the word &quot;competition,&quot;I&#39;m sure most of you&#39;ve used it.You know, most people don&#39;t realize it comes fromthe Latin competere, which means strive together.It means the way Olympic athletes train with each other.They get fit together, and then they compete.The Williams sisters compete — one wins Wimbledon.So we&#39;ve been looking at the idea of competitionas a way of cooperating in order to get fit together.And the Chinese government has now —I work with the Chinese government now —has taken this up.We&#39;re also looking at survival of the fittest,not in just competition terms in our modern contextof destroy the other or beat them to the ground,but really to fit together and build nichesand have growth that is good.
时间：12:17
zh-cn:现在大部分环保人士不说成长是好的，因为在我们的字典里，沥青是受责难的字眼。但如果我们视沥青为我们的成长，则我们体认到我们所做的是在破坏地球的基本运作系统。因此，当我们以诗人的观点看待 E 等于 MC 平方，我们看能量是物理、化学是质量，突然间，你得到生物学。我们有的是能量，所以我们会解决问题，但生物学的问题是微妙的，因为当我们处置了排出的有毒材料，我们将永远无法恢复它。诚如弗朗西斯克里克所指出，在和华生发现 DNA 后九年，生命要能成长的前提是 —它要有免费能源、阳光且它应是一个化学物质的开放系统。因此，我们要把人造物品变成生命体，我们要成长，我们要来自太阳的免费能源我们要化学物质的开放式代谢系统。接着，「长或不长」就已经不是问题了，而是：你要长成什么？因此，反之于破坏成长，我们要使我们可享受的事物成长，有一天食品药物局将允许我们做法式奶酪。
en:Now most environmentalists don&#39;t say growth is good,because, in our lexicon, asphalt is two words: assigning blame.But if we look at asphalt as our growth,then we realize that all we&#39;re doing is destroyingthe planetary&#39;s fundamental underlying operating system.So when we see E equals mc squared come along, from a poet&#39;s perspective,we see energy as physics, chemistry as mass,and all of a sudden, you get this biology.And we have plenty of energy, so we&#39;ll solve that problem,but the biology problem&#39;s tricky, because as we put throughall these toxic materials that we disgorge,we will never be able to recover that.And as Francis Crick pointed out, nine yearsafter discovering DNA with Mr. Watson,that life itself has to have growth as a precondition —it has to have free energy, sunlightand it needs to be an open system of chemicals.So we&#39;re asking for human artifice to become a living thing,and we want growth, we want free energy from sunlightand we want an open metabolism for chemicals.Then, the question becomes not growth or no growth,but what do you want to grow?So instead of just growing destruction,we want to grow the things that we might enjoy,and someday the FDA will allow us to make French cheese.
时间：13:27
zh-cn:因此，我们有两个代谢系统，我与一位德国化学家 Michael Braungart 合作，我们找到两个基本的代谢系统。生物的代谢系统，我确定你明白，还有一个是技术代谢系统，我们把材料放在封闭循环中。我们称它们为生物养分及技术养分。技术养分将是生物养分的十倍量。生物养分可以供养五亿人，亦即如果我们都穿勃肯鞋和棉织品，世界会因为软木耗尽而枯竭。因此我们需要将材料放入封闭循环系统，但我们要微量分析这些材料有否癌症、生育缺陷、突变、免疫系统破换、生物可分解性、耐用性、重金属含量、还有我们如何制造它们和生产它们的知识等等。
en:So therefore, we have these two metabolisms,and I worked with a German chemist, Michael Braungart,and we&#39;ve identified the two fundamental metabolisms.The biological one I&#39;m sure you understand,but also the technical one, where we take materialsand put them into closed cycles.We call them biological nutrition and technical nutrition.Technical nutrition will be in an order of magnitude of biological nutrition.Biological nutrition can supply about 500 million humans,which means that if we all wore Birkenstocks and cotton,the world would run out of cork and dry up.So we need materials in closed cycles,but we need to analyze them down to the parts per millionfor cancer, birth defects, mutagenic effects,disruption of our immune systems, biodegradation, persistence,heavy metal content, knowledge of how we&#39;re making themand their production and so on.
时间：14:11
zh-cn:我们的首件产品是纺织品，我们分析了纺织产业的9800 种化学物质。使用那些智能型的滤器，我们删除了 9762 种。最后留下 38 种化学物。我们建档了人类生产过程中最常用的 4000 种化学物，将在六星期内将数据库公开。全世界的设计师将能微量分析他们的产品，以照顾人类及生态健康。
en:Our first product was a textile where we analyzed 8,000 chemicalsin the textile industry.Using those intellectual filters, we eliminated [7,962.]We were left with 38 chemicals.We have since databased the 4000 most commonly used chemicalsin human manufacturing, and we&#39;re releasing this database into the public in six weeks.So designers all over the world can analyze their productsdown to the parts per million for human and ecological health.
时间：14:38
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：14:43
zh-cn:我们已经开发了一套作业准则，让公司可以寄送这些讯息遍及它的供应链，因为当我们问及多数合作的公司 — 总营业额约一兆美元— 说：「你们的材料来自何处？」，他们说：「供货商」。「它往何处去？」「顾客」。因此我们需要一些帮助。
en:We&#39;ve developed a protocol so that companies can sendthese same messages all the way through their supply chains,because when we asked most companies we work with — about a trillion dollars— and say, &quot;Where does your stuff come from?&quot; They say, &quot;Suppliers.&quot;&quot;And where does it go?&quot;&quot;Customers.&quot;So we need some help there.
时间：14:58
zh-cn:因此，生物养分，第一次织物 —出来的水清净得可以饮用。技术养分 — Shaw Carpet 公司可无限再用的地毯。这是尼龙还原为己内酰胺后再制成地毯。生物技术养分 — 福特的 U 型车，从摇篮到摇篮的汽车 — 概念车。Nike 鞋子的上层是聚酯，可无限次回收，底层是可生物分解的鞋底。穿你的旧鞋来，换新鞋回去。没有终点线。此处有关汽车的点子是有些材料永远回到产业去，有些材料回到土壤里 －全是应用太阳能。
en:So the biological nutrients, the first fabrics —the water coming out was clean enough to drink.Technical nutrients — this is for Shaw Carpet, infinitely reusable carpet.Here&#39;s nylon going back to caprolactam back to carpet.Biotechnical nutrients — the Model U for Ford Motor,a cradle to cradle car — concept car.Shoes for Nike, where the uppers are polyesters, infinitely recyclable,the bottoms are biodegradable soles.Wear your old shoes in, your new shoes out.There is no finish line.The idea here of the car is that some of the materialsgo back to the industry forever, some of the materials go back to soil —it&#39;s all solar-powered.
时间：15:32
zh-cn:这是我们为奥伯林学院设计的大楼，它产生的能源超过大楼运作及净化用水的需求。这是为 The Gap 设计的大楼，屋顶上有加州 San Bruno 的原始草皮。
en:Here&#39;s a building at Oberlin College we designedthat makes more energy than it needs to operate and purifies its own water.Here&#39;s a building for The Gap, where the ancient grassesof San Bruno, California, are on the roof.
时间：15:44
zh-cn:这是我们为福特汽车公司做的项目，这是狄尔伯尔尼胭脂河的再生计划。这显然是张彩色照片。这些都是我们的工具。这就是我们卖给福特的方式。我们这样做帮福特省下了 3,500 万美元，相当于福特 Taurus在百分之四利润下，值 9 亿美元的汽车订单。就是这个。它是世界最大的绿色屋顶，10.5 英亩。这是个能省钱的屋顶，这些双胸斑沙鸟是首批在此定居的物种。五天内它们就出现了。而现在我们有 350 磅汽车工人在互联网上学鸟叫。我们正在开发适用于城市的作业准则 —城市是技术养分之家。乡村 － 生物养分之家。并将它们整合起来。
en:And this is our project for Ford Motor Company.It&#39;s the revitalization of the River Rouge in Dearborn.This is obviously a color photograph.These are our tools. These are how we sold it to Ford.We saved Ford 35 million dollars doing it this way, day one,which is the equivalent of the Ford Taurusat a four percent margin of an order for 900 million dollars worth of cars.Here it is. It&#39;s the world&#39;s largest green roof, 10 and a half acres.This is the roof, saving money,and this is the first species to arrive here. These are killdeer.They showed up in five days.And we now have 350-pound auto workerslearning bird songs on the Internet.We&#39;re developing now protocols for cities —that&#39;s the home of technical nutrients.The country — the home of biological. And putting them together.
时间：16:31
zh-cn:最后我将展示我们正在为中国政府设计的一个新城市。我们现在正在为中国以「从摇篮到摇篮」模式规划 12 个城市。我们的工作是开发作业准则，供应 12 年内 4 亿人口的居住。我们做了大量能源平衡 — 如果他们用砖，他们将失去全部泥土并烧光所有的煤。他们的城市将没有能源也没有食物。我们签订了合作意向书 －这是邓楠女士，邓小平的女儿 －让中国采用「从摇篮到摇篮」。因为如果他们毒害自己，作为最低成本的制造者，将它送到最低成本的配销系统 － Wal-Mart －然后我们将钱都付给他们，我们发现的将必然是，我还是学生时代时所称的｢同归于尽｣。
en:And so I will finish by showing you a new citywe&#39;re designing for the Chinese government.We&#39;re doing 12 cities for China right now,based on cradle to cradle as templates.Our assignment is to develop protocols for the housingfor 400 million people in 12 years.We did a mass energy balance — if they use brick,they will lose all their soil and burn all their coal.They&#39;ll have cities with no energy and no food.We signed a Memorandum of Understanding —here&#39;s Madam Deng Nan, Deng Xiaoping&#39;s daughter —for China to adopt cradle to cradle.Because if they toxify themselves, being the lowest-cost producer,send it to the lowest-cost distribution — Wal-Mart —and then we send them all our money, what we&#39;ll discover is thatwe have what, effectively, when I was a student,was called mutually assured destruction.
时间：17:13
zh-cn:现在我们用分子来设计。这些是我们将规划的城市。我们要在这个城市旁建造一个新城市；看看景观。这是基地。我们通常不在绿地上建设，但这一个即将动土，因此他们和我们协商。这是他们的计划。那好像是在地景上盖个橡皮格子章。然后他们询问我们的意见说：「你们会怎么做？」这是他们可能得到的结果，这也是彩色照片。这是现有的基地，这是它现在的样子，而这是我们的提案。
en:Now we do it by molecule. These are our cities.We&#39;re building a new city next to this city; look at that landscape.This is the site.We don&#39;t normally do green fields, but this one is about to be built,so they brought us in to intercede.This is their plan.It&#39;s a rubber stamp grid that they laid right on that landscape.And they brought us in and said, &quot;What would you do?&quot;This is what they would end up with, which is another color photograph.So this is the existing site, so this is what it looks like now,and here&#39;s our proposal.
时间：17:44
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间：17:48
zh-cn:因此我们进行的方式是非常小心地研究了水文学。我们研究了生物相，原始生物相，现代农耕及作业方式。我们研究了风及日照，确保城里每人都有新鲜空气、干净的水，以及每间公寓在白天某个时刻都会有直接日照。接着我们安排公园，把它们当生态基础建设。我们安排建设区。我们开始整合商业区及混合使用区，所以人们都有中心和广场好去。运输很单纯，每人距运输系统都在步行五分钟内。我们有 24 小时街道，所以总是有活动的地方。下水道系统全连接起来。如果你冲马桶，粪便将进入废水处理厂，处理后当资产卖，而不是有害物。因为谁要制造天然瓦斯的肥料厂？水全部取来建构湿地作为栖地重建。然后它产生天然瓦斯，再回到城里作为炊煮用燃料。而这些是肥料瓦斯厂。然后混合肥全被取回到城市的屋顶，那里可以耕作，因为我们抬高了城市及地景到空中 — 并把原有地景重建在屋顶上。所有工厂中心和所有工业区屋顶的太阳能板可供应全城电力所需。
en:So the way we approached thisis we studied the hydrology very carefully.We studied the biota, the ancient biota,the current farming and the protocols.We studied the winds and the sun to make sure everybody in the citywill have fresh air, fresh water and direct sunlightin every single apartment at some point during the day.We then take the parks and lay them out as ecological infrastructure.We lay out the building areas.We start to integrate commercial and mixed useso the people all have centers and places to be.The transportation is all very simple,everybody&#39;s within a five-minute walk of mobility.We have a 24-hour street, so that there&#39;s always a place that&#39;s alive.The waste systems all connect.If you flush a toilet, your feces will go to the sewage treatment plants,which are sold as assets, not liabilities.Because who wants the fertilizer factory that makes natural gas?The waters are all taken in to construct the wetlands for habitat restorations.And then it makes natural gas, which then goes back into the cityto power the fuel for the cooking for the city.So this is — these are fertilizer gas plants.And then the compost is all taken backto the roofs of the city, where we&#39;ve got farming,because what we&#39;ve done is lifted up the city,the landscape, into the air to — to restore the native landscapeon the roofs of the buildings.The solar power of all the factory centersand all the industrial zones with their light roofs powers the city.
时间：19:20
zh-cn:这就是城市顶面的概念。我们把土地抬高到屋顶上。农民们有小桥能在屋顶间来回穿梭。我们把工作/生活空间全放在地面层。这是现有城市，而这是新城市。
en:And this is the concept for the top of the city.We&#39;ve lifted the earth up onto the roofs.The farmers have little bridges to get from one roof to the next.We inhabit the city with work/live space on all the ground floors.And so this is the existing city, and this is the new city.
时间：19:39
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
