时间： 0:11
zh-cn:劳动力市场上有个角落倍受冷落。世界上有很多人需要特别灵活的工作时间，如果他们需要工作的话。例如，一个人患病，有经常性的却不知道什么时候会发作的病或是家里有无自主能力需要照顾的成年人抑或是一对需要照顾孩子的父母他们能工作的时间仅仅是&quot;今天的几个小时。也许明天我可以工作，但这都不确定&quot;。这些人要找工作十分困难，偏偏他们又十分需要工作。这简直是悲剧，因为这是一群可以灵活运用的本地雇员，这些人的时间可以在想要工作的时候被预订
en:This is about a hidden corner of the labor market.It&#39;s the world of people who need to work ultra-flexibly,if they&#39;re to work at all.So think, for instance,of someone who has a recurring but unpredictable medical condition,or somebody who&#39;s caring for a dependent adult,or a parent with complex child care needs.Their availability for work can be such that it&#39;s,&quot;A few hours today.Maybe I can work tomorrow, but I don&#39;t know if and when yet.&quot;And it&#39;s extraordinarily difficult for these peopleto find the work that they so often need very badly.Which is a tragedy because there are employerswho can use pools of very flexible local peoplebooked completely ad hoc around when that person wants to work.
时间： 0:54
zh-cn:想象你有一家快餐厅正好是中午，人满为患。繁忙的午餐时间马上就道了。如果你能雇两个额外的员工，来做个把小时帮你照顾这要命的90分钟。你肯定很乐意。当然，他们得可靠并熟悉快餐厅的工作。他们的工资得很有竞争力，他们得可以立即被预订现实中，没有招聘代理机构愿意碰这类业务因此，你只能在人手不足时勉强应付。这不只是快餐业（的问题），它是酒店经营者、 零售商，它是任何人向公众或企业提供服务的人（的问题）。有各种各样的组织，可以使用这些需要自由工作时间的人，可能他们已经被招募了。
en:Imagine that you run a cafe.It&#39;s mid-morning, the place is filling up.You&#39;re going to have a busy lunchtime rush.If you could get two extra workers for 90 minutesto start in an hour&#39;s time,you&#39;d do it, but they&#39;d have to be reliable, inducted in how your cafe works.They&#39;d have to be available at very competitive rates.They&#39;d have to be bookable in about the next minute.In reality, no recruitment agency wants to handle that sort of business,so you are going to muddle by, understaffed.And it&#39;s not just caterers, it&#39;s hoteliers, it&#39;s retailers,it&#39;s anyone who provides services to the public or businesses.There&#39;s all sorts of organizations that can use these pools of very flexible people,possibly already once they&#39;ve been inducted.
时间： 1:36
zh-cn:在这一级别的劳动力市场，你需要的是一个可以交易空闲时间的市场它们确实存在。它们是这样运作的。例如，一个分销公司说，我们有个急件，要求明天早上就得送出仓库。告诉我们谁有空。它找到31个人有空这屏幕出现的每个人，在明天指定的几个小时内，都绝对可以工作。他们在这个预约时间内都可以联系到。他们已经提出了接受预约的条件。而这个预约满足了这里每一个人的所有要求满足了所有法律规定的要求当然，他们对于仓库工作训练有素。你可以按你的需求选择尽可能多的雇员。他们来自多个中介机构。这里计算出这次预约要付给每个人多少雇佣金。同时还可以核查他们的真实性。最上面一行的人，是最可靠的。所以雇佣金可能会高点。另一个这些人可以发挥作用的场合，有一个市场调研公司，它征召了25个本地人并告诉他们怎么做街头采访。他们有一个新的市场计划。他们想要下个星期就付诸行动。他们可以看他们招募的这些人中在下周每天中分别有几个小时有空。他们然后会决定什么时候做街头采访。
en:At this level of the labor market,what you need is a marketplace for spare hours.They do exist. Here&#39;s how they work.So in this example, a distribution company has said,we&#39;ve got a rush order that we&#39;ve got to get out of the warehouse tomorrow morning.Show us everyone who&#39;s available.It&#39;s found 31 workers.Everybody on this screen is genuinely available at those specific hours tomorrow.They&#39;re all contactable in time for this booking.They&#39;ve all defined the terms on which they will accept bookings.And this booking is within all the parameters for each individual.And they would all be legally compliant by doing this booking.Of course, they&#39;re all trained to work in warehouses.You can select as many of them as you want.They&#39;re from multiple agencies.It&#39;s calculated the charge rate for each person for this specific booking.And it&#39;s monitoring their reliability.The people on the top row are the provenly reliable ones.They&#39;re likely to be more expensive.In an alternative view of this pool of local, very flexible people,here&#39;s a market research company,and it&#39;s inducted maybe 25 local people in how to do street interviewing.And they&#39;ve got a new campaign. They want to run it next week.And they&#39;re looking at how many of the people they&#39;ve inductedare available each hour next week.And they&#39;ll then decide when to do their street interviews.
时间： 2:46
zh-cn:但是我们还可以为劳动力市场角落的这些人做得更多吗？因为现在有这么多人会尽力争取到一切可以挣钱的机会让我们使其个性化。想象一下一名年轻女子——在经济金字塔的底端，很差的就业前景——她可以参与什么经济活动呢？嗯，她可能会愿意在别人不愿意的时段工作在电话中心，接待员，或者邮局。她可能会对为她的社区提供服务感兴趣：保姆、 送货、宠物护理。她可能有她想要交易的物品，当她不需要的时候。所以她可能在客厅有个沙发床想要出让，她可能会有偶尔用用的自行车和游戏机。你可能会想——因为你们都非常熟悉互联网——是的，我们是在合作消费的时代，所以她可以在网上做这些事。她可以去Airbnb列出她的沙发床她可以到TaskRabbit.com去说：&quot;我想要做本地的送货服务。&quot;等等。
en:But is there more that could be donefor this corner of the labor market?Because right now there are so many peoplewho need whatever economic opportunity they can get.Let&#39;s make it personal.Imagine that a young woman — base of the economic pyramid,very little prospect of getting a job —what economic activity could she theoretically engage in?Well, she might be willing to work odd hoursin a call center, in a reception area, in a mail room.She may be interested in providing local services to her community:babysitting, local deliveries, pet care.She may have possessions that she would like to tradeat times she doesn&#39;t need them.So she might have a sofa bed in her front room that she would like to let out.She might have a bike, a video games console she only uses occasionally.And you&#39;re probably thinking — because you&#39;re all very web-aware —yes, and we&#39;re in the era of collaborative consumption,so she can go online and do all this.She can go to Airbnb to list her sofa bed,she can go to TaskRabbit.com and say, &quot;I want to do local deliveries,&quot; and so on.
时间： 3:46
zh-cn:这些都是不错的网站，但我相信我们可以走的更远。其中的关键在于被称作大众现代市场的哲理。在过去的 20 年中，市场产生了很大的变化，但只是为高层的经济组织。如果你是华尔街交易员，你现在认为它理所当然，你在一个系统的市场出售你的金融资产当下市场体系中最具利润的机会，这个体系在你设置的边界内的一微秒内，能够分析出供求和定价并告诉你下一波机会来自何处。它以令人难以置信的复杂的方式管理交易风险。它把所有额外开销降到最低。我们从经济金字塔的底部得到了什么在去20 年的市场中？基本上只有分类广告与搜索引擎。
en:These are good sites, but I believe we can go a step further.And the key to that is a philosophy that we call modern markets for all.Markets have changed beyond recognition in the last 20 years,but only for organizations at the top of the economy.If you&#39;re a Wall Street trader, you now take it for grantedthat you sell your financial assets in a system of marketsthat identifies the most profitable opportunities for you in real time,executes on that in microseconds within the boundaries you&#39;ve set.It analyzes supply and demand and pricingand tells you where your next wave of opportunities are coming from.It manages counterparty risk in incredibly sophisticated ways.It&#39;s all extremely low overhead.What have we gained at the bottom of the economyin terms of markets in the last 20 years?Basically classified adverts with a search facility.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:所以我们为什么有这种差异这些令人难以置信的复杂市场顶部的经济之间这越来越多地吸更多的活动和资源主要经济成这出稀薄交易的水平我们其余的人有什么？一个现代的市场不只是一个网站 ；它是一个 可互操作市场的网络，后台公室机制、 管理制度，解决机制、 流动性来源等等。当华尔街交易员早上上班时，她不会为每个她今天想要卖掉金融衍生产品去列表然后把这个表发到多个网站上等待潜在买家来联系好开始谈判她可能交易的条款。
en:So why do we have this disparitybetween these incredibly sophisticated markets at the top of the economythat are increasingly sucking more and more activity and resourceout of the main economy into this rarefied level of trading,and what the rest of us have?A modern market is more than a website;it&#39;s a web of interoperable marketplaces,back office mechanisms, regulatory regimes,settlement mechanisms, liquidity sources and so on.And when a Wall Street trader comes into work in the morning,she does not write a listing for every financial derivative she wants to sell todayand then post that listing on multiple websitesand wait for potential buyers to get in touchand start negotiating the terms on which she might trade.
时间： 5:29
zh-cn:在现代市场技术的早期，金融机构想出方法如何能利用他们的购买能力，他们的后台办公流程，他们的关系，他们的网络去塑造创造这项新活动的新市场。他们要求政府支持的监管制度，并在很多情况下，他们得到了。
en:In the early days of this modern markets technology,the financial institutions worked outhow they could leverage their buying power, their back office processes,their relationships, their networksto shape these new markets that would create all this new activity.They asked governments for supporting regulatory regimes,and in a lot of cases they got it.
时间： 5:50
zh-cn:但在整个经济，有很多设施同样可以利用一代新的市场来帮助我们所有的人。这些设施-我所说的诸如机制来证明我们的身份，发牌当局知道我们每个人都允许在任何给定时间去合法的做这些流程我们通过官方渠道来解决争端。这些机制，这些设施不在 Craigslist 或Gumtree或雅虎这样的网站的礼品栏里，他们是由国家控制。坐在上面的政策制定者我认为，并没有考虑如何运用这些设施以巩固市场的全新时代。
en:But throughout the economy,there are facilities that could likewise leveragea new generation of marketsfor the benefit of all of us.And those facilities —I&#39;m talking about things like the mechanisms that prove our identity,the licensing authoritiesthat know what each of us is allowed to do legally at any given time,the processes by which we resolve disputes through official channels.These mechanisms, these facilitiesare not in the gift of Craigslist or Gumtree or Yahoo,they&#39;re controlled by the state.And the policymakers who sit on top of themare, I suggest, simply not thinking about how those facilities could be usedto underpin a whole new era of markets.
时间： 6:36
zh-cn:像其他人一样，这些政策制定者也认为理所当然现代市场都保留强大到足以创建他们自己的组织。假设我们不再把它想当然。假设明天早上，英国总理或美国总统或任何其他发达国家的领导人醒来了说：&quot;我再也不能够创造当前所需要到所有工作机会。我要侧重于我能带给我的人民的经济机会。为此他们必须能够接近最新的市场。如何能做到呢?&quot;
en:Like everyone else, those policymakers are taking it for grantedthat modern markets are the preserveof organizations powerful enough to create them for themselves.Suppose we stopped taking that for granted.Suppose tomorrow morning the prime minister of Britain or the president of the U.S.,or the leader of any other developed nation,woke up and said, &quot;I&#39;m never going to be able to createall the jobs I need in the current climate.I have got to focus on whatever economic opportunity I can get to my citizens.And for that they have to be able to access state-of-the-art markets.How do I make that happen?&quot;
时间： 7:17
zh-cn:我会看到有些人不相信。政客们在做一个复杂尖端的大IT项目？哦，那将会是一场灾难。也不一定。以前曾有一个技术驱动型的服务这是由多个国家的政界人士发起的并已取得巨大成功：国家政府奖券。
en:And I think I can see a few eyes rolling.Politicians in a big, complex, sophisticated I.T. project?Oh, that&#39;s going to be a disaster waiting to happen.Not necessarily.There is a precedent for technology-enabled servicethat has been initiated by politicians in multiple countriesand has been hugely successful:national lotteries.
时间： 7:42
zh-cn:让我们以英国为例。我们的政府没有设计国家彩票，它没有资助国家彩票，它不会操纵国家彩票。它只是通过了《国家彩票法》 ，然后付诸实施。该法令规定了国家彩票将是什么样子。它明确了某些福利也唯独国家可以赋予经营者这些福利。并赋予这些经营者一些义务。在传播赌博活动方面，这是一个不合格的成功。
en:Let&#39;s take Britain as an example.Our government didn&#39;t design the national lottery,it didn&#39;t fund the national lottery, it doesn&#39;t operate the national lottery.It simply passed the National Lottery Act and this is what followed.This act defines what a national lottery will look like.It specifies certain benefitsthat the state can uniquely bestow on the operators.And it puts some obligations on those operators.In terms of spreading gambling activity to the masses,this was an unqualified success.
时间： 8:11
zh-cn:让我们假设，我们的目标是给金字塔的底部带来新的经济活动。我们能使用相同的模式吗？我相信我们可以。想象一下政策制定者描绘出了一个大概的设施。让我们称之为国家电子市场，简称 NEMs。把它当作受监管的公用事业。所以它可与水的供应或道路网络相提并论。它是一系列的低级贸易市场这可以由一人或一个小公司来完成。政府有一定的福利是唯独它才能够授予这些市场的。公共开支就是通过这些市场交换回地方级别的公共服务。这些市场相互接轨直接进入最高官方渠道。是有关在这些市场中政府所扮演的宣传员的角色。是关于放宽某些部门从而使当地人民可以进入到这些部门。
en:But let&#39;s suppose that our aimis to bring new economic activity to the base of the pyramid.Could we use the same model?I believe we could.So imagine that policymakers outlined a facility.Let&#39;s call it national e-markets, NEMs for short.Think of it as a regulated public utility.So it&#39;s on a par with the water supply or the road network.And it&#39;s a series of markets for low-level tradethat can be fulfilled by a person or a small company.And government has certain benefitsit can uniquely bestow on these markets.It&#39;s about public spending going through these marketsto buy public services at the local level.It&#39;s about interfacing these marketsdirect into the highest official channels in the land.It&#39;s about enshrining government&#39;s role as a publicist for these markets.It&#39;s about deregulating some sectorsso that local people can enter them.
时间： 9:04
zh-cn:所以，的士旅途可能是一个例子。而在享有福利的同时也应该有某些义务给经营者，当然，关键的一个是，经营者支付一切，包括为接轨公共部门的所有费用。想象一下经营者的获益来自于在每笔交易当中所占据的一定抽成。想象一下有优惠期也许 定为15 年这期间，他们得到所有的福利并应用于运营。想象一下得到运营 的财团被告知，谁在每笔交易中的百分比最低来资助整个运营就将获得这笔交易。
en:So, taxi journeys might be one example.And there are certain obligations that should go with those benefitsto be placed on the operators,and the key one is, of course,that the operators pay for everything,including all the interfacing into the public sector.So imagine that the operators make their returnby building a percentage markup into each transaction.Imagine that there&#39;s a concession perioddefined of maybe 15 yearsin which they can take all these benefits and run with them.And imagine that the consortia who bid to run it are told,whoever comes in at the lowest percentage markup on each transactionto fund the whole thingwill get the deal.
时间： 9:46
zh-cn:然后政府就会退出。如今就由财团来掌控。要么他们要解锁很多的经济机会并且从中抽成要么就任由它亏损破产，对其股东来说是很难的。它不一定妨碍纳税人。对其他市场也没有制约。所以这只不过是会多一个选择出现在在数以百万计互联网论坛中。它可能是非常不同的因为进入这些国家支持的设施可以激励这个财团来认真投资这项服务。因为他们要让大量的小笔交易开始为他们谋利。
en:So government then exits the frame.This is now in the hands of the consortium.Either they are going to unlock an awful lot of economic opportunityand make a percentage on all of itor it&#39;s all going to crash and burn,which is tough on their shareholders.It doesn&#39;t bother the taxpayer necessarily.And there would be no constraints on alternative markets.So this would just be one more choiceamong millions of Internet forums.But it could be very different,because having access to those state-backed facilitiescould incentivize this consortiumto seriously invest in the service.Because they would have to get a lot of these small transactions goingto start making their return.
时间：10:25
zh-cn:所以我们讲的是诸如家庭头发护理，租用玩具、 农场工作，甚至租用衣服，和送餐服务，旅游、 家庭护理服务。这会是一些不起眼的行业，但消息非常灵通因为国家电子市场将提供数据。
en:So we&#39;re talking about sectors like home hair care,the hire of toys, farm work,hire of clothes even, meals delivered to your door,services for tourists, home care.This would be a world of very small trades, but very well-informed,because national e-markets will deliver data.
时间：10:50
zh-cn:所以这是一个本地人可能决定是否进入保姆市场。而他们也可能会发现他们要花钱去做审批和接受培训只要他们想进入这个市场的话。他们要与本地想雇佣保姆的家长做评估面试。这值得吗？他们要不要看看别的部门呢？要不要搬到本国的另一个地区呢？那些保姆短缺的地方？这种数据可以成为惯例。此数据可被投资者使用。如果某些地区有保姆短缺问题问题是没有人可以负担得起审批和培训，投资者可以付钱系统将从个人增加的收入中抽税也就是可能在接下来的两年中这样子。
en:So this is a local personpotentially deciding whether to enter the babysitting market.And they might be aware that they would have to fund vetting and trainingif they wanted to go into that market.They&#39;d have to do assessment interviews with local parentswho wanted a pool of babysitters.Is it worth their while?Should they be looking at other sectors?Should they be moving to another part of the countrywhere there&#39;s a shortage of babysitters?This kind of data can become routine.And this data can be used by investors.So if there&#39;s a problem with a shortage of babysitters in some parts of the countryand the problem is nobody can afford the vetting and training,an investor can pay for itand the system will tithe back the enhanced earnings of the individualsfor maybe the next two years.
时间：11:29
zh-cn:这是一个原子化的资本主义世界它是一小部分人做着小的交易，但它的非常可靠、 安全、 方便、 低开销和直接。部分大致的研究表明这将开启一天约 1 亿英镑的新的经济活动在像英国这么大的国家。
en:This is a world of atomized capitalism.So it&#39;s small trades by small people,but it&#39;s very informed, safe, convenient, low-overhead and immediate.Some rough research suggests this could unlockaround 100 million pounds&#39; worth a day of new economic activityin a country the size of the U.K.
时间：11:50
zh-cn:你这听起来不可能吗？曾有很多人对涡轮交易的看法就是这样也就是在20年前的金融交易所里。不要低估真正现代市场的这种变革的力量。
en:Does that sound improbable to you?That&#39;s what a lot of people said about turbo tradingin financial exchanges 20 years ago.Do not underestimate the transformative powerof truly modern markets.
时间：12:06
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you.
时间：12:08
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
