时间： 0:12
zh-cn:晚上好
en:Good evening.
时间： 0:13
zh-cn:我们现在在这个很棒露天的圆形剧场而且我们在这个舒服的夜晚非常享受今晚的温度不过当卡塔尔在十年后举办足球世界杯的时候，也就是2022年，我们已经听说这将会是在非常晴朗和炎热的在夏季的六月和七月。而且当卡塔尔得到举办世界杯资格的时候,很多世界各地的人都在思考这些足球运动员怎么可能展现给我们精彩的比赛，如果说他们在这种沙漠一样热的温度中奔跑?观众们又怎么可能干坐着并且在这么热的露天体育场中欣赏比赛呢?
en:We are in this wonderfulopen-air amphitheaterand we are enjoying ourselvesin that mild eveningtemperature tonight,but when Qatar will hostthe football World Cup10 years from now,2022,we already heard it will bein the hot, very hot and sunnysummer months of June and July.And when Qatar has been assignedto the World Cup all, manypeople around the world have beenwondering, how would it bepossible that football playersshow spectacular football,run around in this desertclimate? How would it bepossible that spectators sit,enjoy themselves in open-airstadia in this hot environment?
时间： 1:01
zh-cn:这些所有问题都在由Albert Speer &amp; Partner公司，还有从Transsolar的工程师尝试解决,他们正在试图制造一个100%靠太阳能的冷却系统。
en:Together with the architects ofAlbert Speer &amp; Partner, our engineersfrom Transsolar have beensupporting, have been developingopen-air stadia based on 100 percentsolar power, on 100 percent solar cooling.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:我准备谈谈这个话题，不过我先从舒适方面来说。我从舒适方面来说，因为很多人把外界环境和热舒适混淆在一起了。
en:Let me tell you about that,but let me start with comfort.Let me start with the aspectof comfort, because many peopleare confusingambient temperaturewith thermal comfort.
时间： 1:30
zh-cn:我们已经适应读这样的表格,你可以看到这条红线表明空气温度在六,七月的情况,没错,都快到45摄氏度了。其实是非常热的。不过空气温度却不热，包括所有这些决定舒适的气候常数。
en:We are used to looking at charts likethat, and you see this red lineshowing the air temperaturein June and July, and yes, that&#39;s right,it&#39;s picking up to 45 degrees C.It&#39;s actually very hot.But air temperature is notthe full set of climaticparameters which define comfort.
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:让我给你看看我的一个同事做的分析,这个分析包含了各种足球,世界杯,还有奥运会的比赛它关注并且分析人们在不同的体育项目上所能感受到的舒适的程度，让我从墨西哥开始吧。
en:Let me show you analysisa colleague of mine did lookingon different football, World Cups,Olympic Games around the world,looking on the comfortand analyzing the comfortpeople have perceived at thesedifferent sport activities,and let me start with Mexico.
时间： 2:07
zh-cn:墨西哥的空气温度一般都是15-30摄氏度而且人们非常享受这个温度这场比赛在墨西哥的比赛非常舒服.你们看看吧在奥兰多呢,一样的露天体育场人们在强烈的太阳下已经高湿度的环境里坐着在下午时,他们并没有享受这种比赛.感觉一点儿都不舒服空气温度十分的高,不过在这些比赛就不是非常地舒服
en:Mexico temperature has been, airtemperature has been something between15, up to 30 degrees C, and peopleenjoyed themselves.It was a very comfortable gamein Mexico City. Have a look.Orlando, same kind of stadium,open-air stadium. People havebeen sitting in the strong sun,in the very high humidityin the afternoon, and theydid not enjoy. It was not comfortable.The air temperature was not too high, but it was notcomfortable during these games.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:那么首尔呢?由于广播权利要求,所有首尔的比赛都是在下午举行的.太阳基本都下山了因此呢这些比赛都还是比较舒服的
en:What about Seoul? Seoul, becauseof broadcast rights, all thegames have been in the lateafternoon. Sun has already beenset, so the games have beenperceived as comfortable.
时间： 2:48
zh-cn:那么雅典呢?它是地中海气候不过在太阳下并不是很舒服.他们没感觉到舒适
en:What about Athens? Mediterraneanclimate, but in the sun it wasnot comfortable. They didn&#39;t perceive comfort.
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:而且我们从西班牙的经验就可以得到我们知道&quot;sol y sombra&quot;的酒如果你有张票,而且你的座位还在阴影底下你就得多交钱,因为你在一个更舒服的环境下
en:And we know that from Spain,we know that &quot;sol y sombra.&quot;If you have a ticket, and youget a ticket for the shade,you pay more, because you&#39;rein a more comfortable environment.
时间： 3:10
zh-cn:那北京呢?一样,天空中的太阳以及高湿度的环境并不是很舒服
en:What about Beijing?It&#39;s again, sun in the dayand high humidity,and it was not comfortable.
时间： 3:17
zh-cn:因此呢如果我们总结下这些舒适度的分析我们可以看到所有这些地方的空气温度都在25-35度之间如果你继续看的话那条30度的线就是外界温度.你再看那条线就会发现各种各样的舒适度都有,各种的户外舒适从非常舒服到非常不舒服
en:So if I overlay, and if youoverlay all these comfortenvelopes, what we see is,in all these places, air temperature hasbeen ranging something from 25to 35, and if you go onthe line, 30, of 30 degrees Cambient temperatures. If yougo along that line you seethere has been all kind ofcomfort, all kinds of perceivedoutdoor comfort, ranging fromvery comfortableto very uncomfortable.
时间： 3:45
zh-cn:那又是为什么呢?因为影响热量舒适度的常数其实有很多,比如说太阳直接太阳照射太阳散射,或者风，强风,弱风,还有空气湿度,最后就是周围环境的辐射温度这就是空气温度
en:So why is that?This is because there aremore parameters influencingour thermal comfort, which isthe sun, the direct sun,the diffuse sun, which is wind,strong wind, mild wind, which isair humidity, which isthe radiant temperature of thesurroundings where we are in.And this is air temperature.
时间： 4:10
zh-cn:所有这些常数都对我们人类身体的舒适度有影响,科学家探索出来一种常数从而可以界定温度,通过用所有常数进行分析最后帮助分析者了解哪一个决定我舒服还是不舒服最重要的常数这样就得到了关键常数从而给我们一个界定温度.而这些常数呢,这些气候常数是跟我们新陈代谢有关的
en:All these parameters go intothe comfort feeling of ourhuman body, and scientistshave developed a parameter,which is the perceivedtemperature, where all theseparameters go in and helpdesigners to understandwhich is the driving parameterthat I feel comfort or thatI don&#39;t feel comfort.Which is the driving parameterwhich gives me a perceivedtemperature? And these parameters,these climatic parameters arerelated to the human metabolism.
时间： 4:42
zh-cn:因为我们的新陈代谢我们作为人类我们产生热量现在我跟你说话我就很激动我肯定在以150瓦功率发热.你们都坐着呢,你们很放松,你们都看着我所以每个人差不多也就以100瓦的功率发热不过我们需要摆脱那部分能量.我需要我的身体去摆脱这样的能量,这样做越难的话我就会觉得越不舒服就是这么简单.如果我无法摆脱的话我就死掉了
en:Because of our metabolism,we as human beings,we produce heat.I&#39;m excited, I&#39;m talking to you,I&#39;m probably producing150 wattsat the moment. You are sitting,you are relaxed, you&#39;re lookingat me. It&#39;s probably 100watts each person is producing,and we need to get rid of thatenergy. I need, with my body,to get rid of the energy, andthe harder it is for myself,for my body, to get rid of theenergy, the less comfort I feel.That&#39;s it. And if I don&#39;tget rid of the energy,I will die.
时间： 5:15
zh-cn:如果我们总结下在足球世界杯六,七月会发生的什么的话,我们就会发现,没错温度就会变得更高,因为比赛和训练都会在下午所以呢舒适度就会跟其他那些被鉴定为不舒服的地方差不多
en:If we overlay what happensduring the football World Cup,what will happen in June, July,we will see, yes, airtemperature will be much higher,but because the games andthe plays will be in the afternoon,it&#39;s probably the same comfortrating we&#39;ve found in otherplaces which has perceivedas non-comfortable.
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:因此我们作为一个团队在一起这样就为我们的目标做准备我们的目标就是感受温度对于室外舒适度在32摄氏度下的联系32摄氏度其实是非常舒服的人们会在室外的环境中感觉很好
en:So we sat together with a teamwhich prepared the Bid Book, or goal,that we said, let&#39;s aimfor perceived temperature,for outdoor comfort in this range,which is perceived with atemperature of 32 degreesCelsius perceived temperature,which is extremely comfortable.People would feel really finein an open outdoor environment.
时间： 6:02
zh-cn:不过这又意味这什么呢？如果我们看看发生了什么我们可以看到温度太高了如果我们用最好的建筑设计环境工程设计也不会弄得多好
en:But what does it mean?If we just look on what happens,we see, temperature&#39;s too high.If we apply the best architectural design,climate engineering design,we won&#39;t get much better.
时间： 6:15
zh-cn:因此我们需要做一些有效的事情比如说我们需要用到外围冷却技术我们需要将这个技术与所谓的温和冷却结合起来
en:So we need to do something active.We need, for instance, to bringin radiant cooling technology,and we need to combine thiswith so-called soft conditioning.
时间： 6:25
zh-cn:不过这在体育馆看起来会是什么样呢?体育场中会有一些能产生室外舒适的因素.第一呢,就是荫庇处,它可以保护坐的人不受到强和热的风干扰
en:And how does it look like in a stadium?So the stadium has a fewelements which create thatoutdoor comfort. First of all,it&#39;s shading. It needsto protect where the peopleare sitting against strongand warm wind.
时间： 6:40
zh-cn:不过那还不够我们还要用动力系统与其在体育场里吹非常冷的飓风我们可以使用外围冷却系统,就跟一个地面加热系统一样所有水管都是在地面上嵌进去的直接通过使用冷水流过这些管子你就可以释放出来你当天吸收的热量在体育场呢,你就可以感受到那种舒适度然后通过不加底流的冷空气而加干燥空气,公众和这些橄榄球运动员就可以对于他们自己的舒适度进行调整,以及他们的能量平衡他们可以调整然后找到他们需要的舒适
en:But that&#39;s not all what we needto do. We need to useactive systems.Instead of blowing a hurricaneof chilled air through the stadium,we can use radiantcooling technologies, like afloor heating system where waterpipes are embedded in the floor.And just by using cold watergoing through the water pipes,you can release the heatwhich is absorbed during the dayin the stadium, so you cancreate that comfort, and then byadding dry air instead ofdown-chilled air, the spectatorsand the football players canadjust to their individualcomfort needs, to theirindividual energy balance.They can adjust and findtheir comfort they need to find.
时间： 7:26
zh-cn:到时候估计一共有12个体育场不过训练的场地有32个,这些都是给每个参赛国家而准备的我们可以使用一样的主意训练场的荫庇使用挡风板然后铺上草坪自然生长的草坪是一个很好的冷却资源可以稳定温度并且使用干燥空气去创造舒适
en:There are 12 stadia probablyto come, but there are32 training pitches whereall the individual countriesare going to train.We applied the same concept:shading of the training pitch,using a shelter against wind,then using the grass.Natural-watered lawn is avery good cooling sourcestabilizing temperature,and using dehumidified air tocreate comfort.
时间： 7:55
zh-cn:但是最好的被动设计却是没有用的我们需要主动的动力系统那么我们怎么做呢？
en:But even the best passive designwouldn&#39;t help.We need active system.And how do we do that?
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:我们的想法是100%的太阳能冷却这是通过体育馆对屋顶的分析而得出的结论我们可以占满体育馆的屋顶去放上PV系统我们不用其他历史上的任何能量我们不使用化石能源也不从周围借能源我们在使用可以在屋顶产生的能量当然还有在训练场上的,到时将会被大的和灵活性好的膜罩住.我们在下来几年在工业中将会看到一种灵活性好的光电电流的产生,这样就可以荫庇那些太阳很烈的地方并且产生电能
en:Our idea for the bid was100 percent solar cooling,based on the idea that we usethe roof of the stadia,we cover the roofs of the stadiawith PV systems.We don&#39;t borrow any energyfrom history.We are not using fossil energies.We are not borrowing energyfrom our neighbors.We&#39;re using energy we can harveston our roofs, and also on thetraining pitches, which will becovered with large, flexiblemembranes, and we will seein the next years an industrycoming up with flexiblephotovoltaics, givingthe possibilities of shadingagainst strong sun and producingelectric energy in the same time.
时间： 8:44
zh-cn:现在这种能量正在发展之中这些能量在电网中取代了化石能源,而当我需要它用来冷却的时候,我就从电网中拿出来然后使用在电网上已经有的太阳能这样就有个我们需要的太阳能冷却这样第一年我可以就这样做后面10年中我可以将他们都平衡下来,在下来20年这种能源就对于在卡塔尔的世界杯很重要了接下来的20年,这种能源就会进入卡塔尔的电网
en:And this energy now isharvested throughout the year,sent into the grid,is replacing fossilsin the grid, and when I need itfor the cooling, I take itback from the grid and Iuse the solar energywhich I have brought to the gridback when I needit for the solar cooling.And I can do that in the firstyear and I can balance thatin the next 10, and the next20 years, this energy,which is necessary to conditiona World Cup in Qatar,the next 20 years, this energygoes into the grid of Qatar.
时间： 9:18
zh-cn:所以呢这个—(鼓掌)
en:So this — (Applause)
时间： 9:20
zh-cn:非常感谢—（鼓掌）
en:Thank you very much. (Applause)
时间： 9:21
zh-cn:这样不光对体育场有用我们可以用在露天的地方和街道上我们一直在为&quot;未来城市&quot;工作在马斯达尔,就在阿联酋的阿比扎比而且我非常高兴我在中心的广场工作这个同样的去制造室外舒适的主意就是我们认为的舒适.人们非常享受去那里,而不是去一个购物广场,因为一个是凉爽的一个是冷的.我们想要制造一个十分舒适以至于人们每个下午都可以去那里甚至在晴朗的夏季他们也能到在那里享受的与他们的家庭见面的地方（掌声）
en:This is not only usefulfor stadia. We can use that alsoin open-air places and streets,and we&#39;ve been working onthe City of the Futurein Masdar, which is in theUnited Emirates, Abu Dhabi.And I had the pleasure to workon the central plaza.And the same idea to use there,to create outdoor conditionswhich are perceivedas comfortable. People enjoygoing there instead of goinginto a shopping mall, which ischilled down and which iscooled. We wanted to createan outdoor spacewhich is so comfortable thatpeople can go there in theearly afternoon, even in thesesunny and hot summer months,and they can enjoy and meet therewith their families. (Applause)
时间：10:02
zh-cn:同样的理念:遮挡太阳的荫庇遮挡强风的挡板然后利用你能使用的太阳的能源还有这些美丽的雨伞
en:And the same concept:shade against the sun,shade against the wind,and use, use and take advantageof the sun you can harveston your footprint.And these beautiful umbrellas.
时间：10:16
zh-cn:因此我鼓励你们去对你们的热量舒适度有所注意以及热量环境今晚和明天如果你还想多看看呢,我建议去看一下我们的网站我下载了一个十分简单的温度计算器这样你可以查看下你的外界舒适的情况而且我还希望你们都知道如果工程师和设计师都能使用这样不同的气候常数的话,在室外制造一个很好很舒适的环境就很有可能了可以改变热量从而我们在外界感觉更舒服我们可以使用最好的被动设计来做但同时又使用在卡塔尔的能源—-太阳
en:So I&#39;d like to encourage youto pay attention to yourthermal comfort, to yourthermal environment,tonight and tomorrow,and if you&#39;d like to learn moreabout that, I invite youto go to our website.We uploaded a very simpleperceived temperature calculatorwhere you can check outabout your outdoor comfort.And I also hope that youshare the idea thatif engineers and designerscan use all these differentclimatic parameters,it will be possible to createreally good and comfortableoutdoor conditions,to change our thermal perceptionthat we feel comfortablein an outdoor environment,and we can do thatwith the best passive design,but also using the energy sourceof the site in Qatar which isthe sun.
时间：11:14
zh-cn:(鼓掌)
en:(Applause)
时间：11:17
zh-cn:非常感谢.(鼓掌)谢谢.(鼓掌)
en:Thank you very much. (Applause)Shukran. (Applause)
