时间： 0:11
zh-cn:作为一名建筑设计师,我在设计建筑的时候会同时考虑,建筑与周围的自然环境,,以及建筑与周围的人文环境,即传统文化之间的关系.
en:My work focuses on the connection ofboth thinking about our community lifebeing part of the environmentwhere architecture grows from the naturallocal conditions and traditions.
时间： 0:24
zh-cn:今天, 我将与大家分享两个基于这种理念的案例.这两个案例都位于新兴国家,一个在埃塞俄比亚, 另一个在突尼斯.这两个案例的共同点之一,在于设计方案的最终成型过程中, 从多个不同的角度对建筑的分析, 构成了设计方案重要的组成部分.
en:Today I brought two recent projectsas an example of this.Both projects are in emerging countries,one in Ethiopia and another one in Tunisia.And also they have in commonthat the different analyses from different perspectivesbecomes an essential part of the final piece of architecture.
时间： 0:43
zh-cn:第一个案例起源与我受到邀请去为埃塞俄比亚首都亚的斯亚贝巴设计一个新的多层购物广场.这就是当时我和我的团队获得的一个样例, 我们被要求设计成这种样子.我刚开始看到这个的感觉是我真不想干了.
en:The first example started with an invitationto design a multistory shopping mallin Ethiopia&#39;s capital city Addis Ababa.And this is the type of buildingwe were shown as an example, to my team and myself,of what we had to design.At first, the first thing I thought was,I want to run away.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:(笑声)
en:(Laughter)
时间： 1:04
zh-cn:在观察了类似这种风格的建筑之后—这个城市有很多这种风格的建筑—我们发现了这些建筑最重要的三个问题.首先, 这些建筑基本上都是空的,因为他们里面都是一些大的商铺,当地人是买不起那些大品牌的.第二个问题, 它们需要大量的能源去调温度,因为建筑外围铺的都是玻璃,这种设计将热量困在建筑内部,这导致我们需要很多制冷设备.这种情况不应该发生在这座城市,因为这座城市的气候是相当宜人的,全年温度稳定在20~25度左右.第三个问题就是这个建筑看起来跟非洲或者埃塞俄比亚一点关系都没有.对于一个文化底蕴如此丰富的城市, 这太叫人失望了.
en:After seeing a few of these buildings —there are many in the city —we realized that they have three very big points.First, these buildings, they are almost emptybecause they have very large shopswhere people cannot afford to buy things.Second, they need tons of energy to performbecause of the skin treatment with glassthat creates heat in the inside,and then you need a lot of cooling.In a city where this shouldn&#39;t happenbecause they have really mild weatherthat ranges from 20 to 25 degrees the whole year.And third is that their image has nothing to dowith Africa and with Ethiopia.It is a pity in a place that has such rich culture and traditions.
时间： 1:45
zh-cn:同时, 在我第一次考察埃塞俄比亚的时候,我被当地的集贸市场深深的迷住了.每天, 成百上千的人聚集在露天的建筑环境中, 从小商贩手里买到各种想要的商品.这跟我的想法是一致的, 就是在室外公共场合创造各种活动的想法.于是我想, 这才是我想要设计的,忘掉购物中心吧.但是问题是, 我们怎么才能在这样一个当代多层建筑中贯彻这些理念呢?
en:Also during our first visit to Ethiopia,I was really captivated by the old merkatothat is this open-air structurewhere thousands of people, they go and buy thingsevery day from small vendors.And also it has this idea of the public spacethat uses the outdoors to create activity.So I thought, this is what I really want to design,not a shopping mall.But the question was how we could do a multistory,contemporary building with these principles.
时间： 2:14
zh-cn:第二个挑战就是当我们开始设计的时候,这是一座快速发展的城市,你们在照片上看到的很多建筑物, 在我们设计的时候根本不存在.而且这座建筑前后靠着的两条平行街道,在前后几百米都没有小路可以连通.
en:The next challenge was when we looked at the site,that is, in a really growing area of the city,where most of these buildings that you see in the image,they were not there.And it&#39;s also between two parallel streetsthat don&#39;t have any connection for hundreds of meters.
时间： 2:28
zh-cn:于是我们首先要做的就是利用我们这座建筑物的所有出入口, 将这两条路连起来.然后我们通过一个倾斜的中庭的设计,创造了一个开放的建筑空间,而且这种设计能够通过自身的形状避免下面的行人受到日晒雨淋.围绕着这些空洞,我们划分出很多的小商铺, 基于我们小集市的想法.每层的商铺的布局都是随着空洞的形状不同而不同.
en:So the first thing we did was to create a connectionbetween these two streets,putting all the entrances of the building.And this extends with an inclined atriumthat creates an open-air space in the buildingthat self-protects itself with its own shapefrom the sun and the rain.And around this voidwe placed this idea of the market with small shops,that change in each floor because of the shape of the void.
时间： 2:53
zh-cn:我思考的另一个问题是, 建筑物的外墙如何装饰?而且我真的希望能够找到一种装饰设计,能够适合当地的气候条件.我开始设想一种纹理结构,用带有穿孔的水泥制成,能够用一种受控的方式,让外界的光线和空气能够进入建筑物中.我们从埃塞俄比亚妇女美丽的传统服装的图案上得到了灵感.这些图案中包含了一些几何形状的纹理片段, 我将类似的问题铺满了整个外墙.我们铺外墙使用的是这些小的预制材料,这些窗户能够让空气和光线按照我们控制的方式进入建筑物.为了实现这点, 我们使用这些小的有色玻璃,利用建筑物内部的光源,在夜间照亮整个建筑.
en:I also thought, how to close the building?And I really wanted to find a solutionthat would respond to the local climate conditions.And I started thinking about the textilelike a shell made of concretewith perforations that would let the air in,and also the light, but in a filtered way.And then the inspiration came from these beautiful patterns of the Ethiopian women&#39;s dresses.That they have fractal geometry propertiesand this helped me to shape the whole facade.And we are building thatwith these small prefabricated piecesthat are the windows that let the air and the lightin a controlled way inside the building.And this is complemented by these small colored glassesthat use the light from the inside of the buildingto light up the building at night.
时间： 3:38
zh-cn:但是我们的这些想法一开始并没有打动建造者,他们的反应类似于,&quot;这根本不是商场. 这不是我们想要的.&quot;但是随后我们都认识到, 这种设计方案比传统的购物商场的方案更加的能赚钱,因为这种设计方案能够出售的店铺数量更多.而且这种外墙的设计, 降低了很多很多的成本,不仅仅是因为这种预制的材料比玻璃要便宜,还因为我们不再需要使用那么多的空调来控制温度了.结果我们最终还节约了一部分预算.
en:With these ideas it was not easy first to convince the developersbecause they were like,&quot;This is not a shopping mall. We didn&#39;t ask for that.&quot;But then we all realized that this idea of the markethappened to be a lot more profitable than the idea of the shopping mallbecause basically they had more shops to sell.And also that the idea of the facade was much, much cheaper,not only because of the material compared with the glass,but also because we didn&#39;t need to have air conditioning anymore.So we created some budget savingsthat we used to implement the project.
时间： 4:11
zh-cn:构造阶段的第一个问题就是思考如何保证大厦能够在电力上自给自足,因为所在的城市几乎每天都要拉闸限电.于是我们在屋顶铺上了很多的太阳能电池板.接着我们想, 能不能在屋顶,在这些太阳能电池板下面, 放置一些桌椅用来休息,让这里成为城市中的绿洲, 供人们小憩.屋顶上的这些游廊,被集中利用来收集雨水, 用于建筑内部的清洁.我们现在已经盖到第五层, 预计在明年初的时候完工.
en:And the first implementation was to thinkabout how we could make the building self-sufficient in terms of energyin a city that has electricity cuts almost every day.So we created a huge asset by placing photovoltaics there on the roof.And then under those panelswe thought about the roof like a new public space with gathering areas and barsthat would create this urban oasis.And these porches on the roof,all together they collect the water to reuse for sanitation on the inside.Hopefully by the beginning of next year, because we are already on the fifth floor of the construction.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:第二个案例是为突尼斯城规划一个超过2000套个公寓及附属设施的建筑.做这么大规模的项目, 这是我做过的最大的项目,我不仅需要非常深刻的理解突尼斯这个城市,还需要理解与她相关的种种传统以及文化.
en:The second example is a master planof 2,000 apartments and facilities in the city of Tunis.And for doing such a big project, the biggest project I&#39;ve ever designed,I really needed to understand the city of Tunis,but also its surroundings and the tradition and culture.
时间： 5:00
zh-cn:在分析的过程中我的注意力被一个阿拉伯人聚居区吸引,这是一个有着一千多年历史的结构, 砖墙结构,有12个门, 相互之间通过几乎是直线的道路相连.当我开始在图纸上规划, 我们做的第一件事情就是延长周边的街道, 将大区块分割12个基本的小区块在大小和特征上都类似于我们在巴塞罗那和其它欧洲城市常见的街区规划.在这些街区规划的基础上, 借鉴刚才提到的想法,我们选择了一些关键点, 将这些关键点通过直线连接起来, 改变了一开始的模式.
en:During that analysis I paid special attention to the medinathat is this 1,000-year-old structure that used to be closed by a wall,opened by twelve different gates, connected by almost straight lines.When I went to the site, the first design operation we didwas to extend the existing streets, creating 12 initial blockssimilar in size and characteristics to the ones we have in Barcelonaand other cities in Europe with these courtyards.On top of that, we selected some strategic pointsreminded of this idea of the gates and connecting them by straight lines,and this modified this initial pattern.
时间： 5:35
zh-cn:最后一步是考虑具体的区块内建筑的设计,这些类似公寓的小隔间,是构成这个巨大规划的基本组成部分.这个时候我在想, 对于一个位于地中海气候的公寓,什么样的朝向是最好的?答案是南北朝向, 可以利用房子南北两侧的温度差异,创造了一个自然的穿堂风效果.于是我们实现了这种模式,让所有的公寓都拥有完美的朝向.
en:And the last operation was to think about the cell,the small cell of the project, like the apartment,as an essential part of the master plan.And for that I thought, what would be the best orientationin the Mediterranean climate for an apartment?And it&#39;s north-south, because it creates a thermal difference between both sides of the houseand then a natural ventilation.So we overlap a pattern that makes sure that most of the apartmentsare perfectly oriented in that direction.
时间： 6:01
zh-cn:这是我们设计的效果,像是一种结合, 阿拉伯城市风格与欧洲住宅风格的结合.有些建筑区块是带有走庭院的,而周围地面上的人行道能够完整的连接起来.同时她也满足的当地管理部门的需求,上层建筑中的人口密度高, 地面人口密度不高.同时她也满足了我们对出入口之间连通性要求.
en:And this is the resultthat is almost like a combination of the European block and the Arab city.It has these blocks with courtyards,and then on the ground flooryou have all these connections for the pedestrians.And also it responds to the local regulations that establisha higher density on the upper levels and a lower density on the ground floor.And it also reinforces this idea of the gates.
时间： 6:21
zh-cn:这个建筑群的相互连接的形状,通过三个不同类型的公寓建筑, 起到遮阳的作用.同时, 让阳光能够透过密集的建筑穿透到地表.在这些中庭之间, 包含了许多不同的设施,像是健身馆, 幼儿园等,以及一系列商业设备, 让公共区域充满活力.屋顶是这个项目中我最得意的部分,这就像是将被这些建筑物占用的空间重新还给了社区.社区的人们可以爬上屋顶, 相互打打招呼聊聊天,或者做一些运动, 像是在早晨的时候在屋顶上跑个两公里, 或是在建筑之间来回跳跃.
en:The volume has this connecting shapethat shades itself with three different types of apartmentsand also lets the light go on the ground floor in a very dense neighborhoodAnd in the courtyards there are the different facilities,such as a gym and a kindergartenand close by, a series of commercial [spaces] that bring activity to the ground floor.The roof, which is my favorite space of the projectis almost like giving back to the community the space taken by the construction.And it&#39;s where all the neighbors, they can go up and socialize,and do activities such as having a two-kilometer run in the morning,jumping from one building to another.
时间： 6:55
zh-cn:这两个案例有一些共同点, 在设计过程中采用了同样的方法.同样, 他们都位于新兴城市, 你能直观的看到建筑物一个个拔地而起.在这些城市, 建筑对于人们的影响, 无论当下还是未来对当地社区及经济的影响, 跟建筑物建造的速度一样快.出于这个原因, 我觉得对于建筑设计而言,这个权衡越来越重要, 即, 寻找简单并且足够便宜的方案,能够增强和促进当地的人们与城市环境的关系,并且能够让人很好的接近自然.
en:These two examples,they have a common approach in the design process.And also, they are in emerging countries where you can seethe cities literally growing.In these cities, the impact of architecture in people&#39;s lives of today and tomorrowchanges the local communities and economies at the same speed as the buildings grow.For this reason, I see even more importanceto look at architecture finding simple but affordable solutionsthat enhance the relationship between the community and the environmentand that aim to connect nature and people.
时间： 7:31
zh-cn:非常感谢.
en:Thank you very much.
时间： 7:33
zh-cn:(掌声)
en:(Applause)
