时间： 0:12
zh-cn:由于我是坐飞机到此的，我已对地球造成甚巨的影响。我已在空气中排放了九吨二氧化碳。这与两只大象相当。我来这里是为了谈论生态。但我的二氧化碳排放量已与法国人一年所排放的二氧化碳量相等。我该怎么做呢？当我回到家时，我要自杀吗？（笑声）我所要做的是另一种抵消二氧化碳的方式，我每次都这样做的。（笑声）
en:I have a big impact on the planetto travel here by plane.I emitted, in the atmosphere, nine tons of CO2;that is the weight of two elephants.I came here to speak about ecology,and I emitted as much CO2as a Frenchman in one year.So what do I have to do?I have to kill a Frenchman when I come back at home?(Laughter)I have to do my carbon offset in another way,like I do every time.(Laughter)
时间： 0:51
zh-cn:事实上我的工作是展示人类对地球的影响。我要展示去年我拍摄到的一些照片。
en:In fact my work is to showour impact on our planet.I&#39;m going to show you some examplesof the last pictures I&#39;ve donein the last year.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:艾伯塔省的油砂，是对环境造成极大污染。我们知道这问题，但我们却视而不见。在艾伯塔省人们，七小时一轮替，一天工作24小时来提取尽可能多的石油。我们都知道石油会走向衰竭。油砂不是一个长远的解决办法。但是我们每年的石油使用量却比年开采量还要多三倍。但是，我们却听而不闻。否认这事实。
en:Alberta sand oil, a lot of pollution.You know the problem;we don&#39;t want to believe what we know.In Alberta people work nonstop,24 hours by sevento extract as much oilas they can.We know about the end of oil.Oil sand is not a long-term solution.But we use three times more oilthan we find every year.We don&#39;t want to believe what we know.Deny.
时间： 1:48
zh-cn:新喀里多尼亚的珊瑚礁群。因为全球变暖，珊瑚礁群将有可能于2050年前就被灭绝了。我们知道珊瑚对温度非常敏感，它们对海洋的多样性也起至关重要的作用。
en:Coral reef in New Caledonia.100 percent of the coralmay be wiped out before 2050because of global warming.And you know how coral are very sensitive to temperature,and are very important for the biodiversity of the sea.
时间： 2:10
zh-cn:北极。我于去年夏天拍摄了这幅图片。假若是在15年前，我根本无法拍摄到这种图片。现在这儿开辟了一条大西洋和太平洋的新航道。自从1960年起，北极的冰层厚度已减少逾百分之40。
en:North Pole. I&#39;ve done this picture last summer.It was impossible to do this picture 15 years ago.Now there is a new way open between Atlantic and Pacific.The thickness of the Arcticdecreased more than 40 percentsince 1960.
时间： 2:36
zh-cn:这是乞力马扎罗山的新装，它的雪顶已消失不见。令人悲伤的图片。它已失去其百分之八十的积雪。据科学家说，于未来100年内，所有高山的积雪都会消失殆尽。冰川对地球上的生命来说也很重要。正如阿尔·戈尔所说，全球有20亿人的生活用水是依靠喜马拉雅山系的冰川。
en:There is a new face of Kilimanjaro without ice.Sad picture.It lost 80 percent of its ice.According to scientists,in 100 yearsall the mountain glacier will be gone.Glaciers are very important for the life on earth.Like Al Gore told you,two billion people live on the waterfrom the glacier of Himalaya.
时间： 3:04
zh-cn:再说到渔夫。五分之一的人类是依靠捕鱼而生活。今天，现在百分之七十的鱼群是被过度捕捞。根据联合国粮食及农业组织，如果我们不改变我们的捕鱼作业，于2050年，海上的主要资源将会消失。我们还是对此视而不见听而不闻。
en:Return of fish men.One fifth of human kinddepend on fish to live.Today now 70 percentof the fish stock are over-exploited.According to FAO,if we don&#39;t change our system of fishingthe main sea resources will be gone in 2050.We don&#39;t want to believe what we know.
时间： 3:36
zh-cn:这是幅美丽的图片是摄于非洲。世界上每六个人里就有一个人没有足够的食物。那么就已有10亿人没有足够的食物。在非洲，玉米是许多地方的主要食品之一。在美国百分之九十的种植玉米都是用来喂养动物或者是制作生物油。
en:The beautiful picture, by [unclear] in Africa.One human of sixhave not enough to eat in the world.One billion people have not enough to eat.In Africa, corn is one of the main foods in many places.Here in America,90 percent of the corn cultivatedis used to feed animals or to do oil.
时间： 4:06
zh-cn:在婆罗洲棕榈树种植园，每一年，都会减少五万平方英里的森林面积。
en:Palm tree plantation in Borneo.Every year we lose 50 thousand square miles in deforestation.
时间： 4:20
zh-cn:达尔富尔的难民营。今天，于世界上共有2000万难民。根据联合国，在2050年，我们将会有2亿5千万难民。
en:Refugee camp in Darfur.Today we have 20 million refugees in the world.According to the U.N.,we speak about 250 million refugeesin 2050.
时间： 4:38
zh-cn:我总是在街头展示我的照片。我们已经在100个城市里举办图片展览。但是如何才能更好理解无声的人类世界？风景照片是远远不够的。很明显我要去做另一个项目。我发起了一个项目，命名它为“60亿人的声音”的计划。我派送六个摄影师到世界各地去问同样的问题，是关于生命的重要问题。我们已经完成了5000次访谈。我在这里向你们展示一下成果。
en:I always show my pictures in the street.We have done already 100 exhibitions in the cities.But how to understand the worldwithout the voice of people?Landscape was not enough.It was obvious to me to do another work.I launched a project named Six Billion Others.I sent around the world six cameramenasking the same question,the same crucial question,about life.We have done five thousand interviews.I&#39;m going to show you this.
时间： 5:23
zh-cn:第一个男人：在我生命中发生的最美好的事情是什么？那是当我父亲告诉我：“过来，我把这个女孩给你做你的新娘。”
en:Man: The most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life?It&#39;s when my dad told me, &quot;Here, I give you this girl as your fiance.&quot;
时间： 5:33
zh-cn:第一个女人：爱？爱是我所能拥有的最美好的事物。
en:Woman: Love? Love is nice if you can have it.
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:第二个男人：罗密欧与朱丽叶，Sassi and Panno，多迪和戴安娜王妃，Heer and Ranjha，这就是爱情！（第三个男人：我最大的恐惧是...）
en:Second Man: Romeo and Juliet, Sassi and Panno, Dodi and Diana, Heer and Ranjha,this is love! Third Man: My greatest fear is ...
时间： 5:43
zh-cn:第二个女人：你问了我一个棘手的问题。
en:Woman: You&#39;re asking me a hard question.
时间： 5:45
zh-cn:第四个男人：因为我完成了我所想要做的事情，所以我觉得我生活得很幸福。
en:Fourth Man: I live happily because what else should I do?
时间： 5:48
zh-cn:第五个男人：我首先想到的是... (第六个男人：我从我母亲身上学到的是，）第五个男人：...从我的孩童起， (第六个男人：我们做为人类，应该彼此尊重。）第五个男人：我们一起骑自行车，是多么快乐啊。 (第六个男人：我永远不会忘记这句话。）
en:Fifth Man: The first thing I remember ... (Sixth Man: That&#39;s how I learned, by my mother,)Fifth Man: ... from my childhood, (Sixth Man: that you should respect humans.)Fifth Man: we were having fun, biking. (Sixth Man: I will never forget those words.)
时间： 5:58
zh-cn:第七个男人：我们发明了故事，我们可以飞往世界各地游玩，但我们还可以待在我们的阁楼里想象。
en:Seventh Man: We invented stories, we flew around the world, while remaining in our attic.
时间： 6:04
zh-cn:第八个男人：今天我开怀一笑。第九个男人：你要晓得，家庭...真糟糕。
en:Eighth Man: I had a big laugh today.Ninth Man: You see, family is ... it&#39;s awful.
时间： 6:11
zh-cn:第十个男人：在生活中，你的生命是唯一的。
en:10th Man: In the word life, you have the life.
时间： 6:13
zh-cn:第十一个男人：我是谁？这是头等重要的问题？
en:11th Man: Who am I? Isn&#39;t that the biggest question?
时间： 6:19
zh-cn:第十二个男人：如果我可以回到伊拉克，我想对那里的人民说，我得跪下来，亲吻他们的脚来请求宽恕。就如同当我要夺走一个伊拉克女人的孩子时，她要亲吻我的脚一样。我感到羞耻。我被他们的力量所感动，从而使我感到谦卑。我永远都觉得有必要向伊拉克作出赔偿。
en:12th Man: If I was to go back to Iraqand speak to the people,I&#39;d have to bow down and kiss their feet.Just as that woman tried to kiss my feetwhen we were taking her sons.I feel ashamed.And I feel humbledby their strength.And I will forever feel a needto make reparations to Iraq.
时间： 6:49
zh-cn:第二个女人：爸爸、妈妈，我长大了。你们不用担心我。爸爸也不用再来闽区打工了。我的家...怎么说呢？不瞒大家说，我的家很贫穷，来到深圳这里，我只是想展现自己。让自己赢得更多的利润，让父母去尝试到很富裕的感觉吧。不想让他们尝到永远在一种很贫穷生活下度过。如果哪一天我真的很发达，很成功，我第一要感谢的就是我的父母。我要对他们说：“爸爸，妈妈，谢谢你们。谢谢你们栽培了我，才会让我有今天。谢谢。”
en:Second Woman: Dad, Mom, I grew up.You shouldn&#39;t worry about me. Dad doesn&#39;t need to go to work.My family ... What can I say?At the moment, my family is very poor,my life here in Shenzhen is just about showing myself that I can earn moreand to let my parents stay and have something to live on.I don&#39;t want them to spend their whole lives in poverty.If someday I can achieve something, I would like to say thank you daddy and mommy.Thank you.Thank you for having fed me and raised me,and for making my life of today. Thank you.
时间： 7:45
zh-cn:第十三个男人：我已在轮椅中度过七年的时光，但这并有阻碍到我享受多姿多彩的生活。许多人说我不可以冲浪。而我则去航游世界，以前进行潜水运动。我证明我能。我认为这一切都紧密联系着大自然，联系着生命的活力。因为在地球上我们都有着某种方式的缺陷。精神上的，心智上的或者身体上的。我只是身体上有小缺陷而已。
en:13th Man: After seven years now of being in a wheelchair,I&#39;ve done more in life being in a chairthan out of a chair.I still surf. I sail the world. I freedive.After many people said I couldn&#39;t do that.And I think that comes from connecting with nature,connecting with the energy of life,because we&#39;re all disabled in some way on the planet —spiritually, mentally or physically.I got the easy part.
时间： 8:19
zh-cn:第十四个男人：比方说，你我都彼此喜欢。不管你从哪里来。你不认识我，我不认识你。我们都彼此坦诚相对。如果我的确喜欢你。我会给你一头牛和许多其他东西，我们就成为朋友。我们就如同自己人一样彼此对待。
en:14th Man: Let&#39;s say that you and me like each other.You come from elsewhere.You don&#39;t know me. I don&#39;t know you.We talk without lying.If I do like you, I give you one cow and many other thingsand we become friends.How can we make it all by ourselves?
时间： 9:01
zh-cn:（鼓掌）
en:(Applause)
时间： 9:09
zh-cn:伯特兰：你还可以登录这个网站。来回答这些问题。共有40个问题。
en:YAB: You can also go to the website,answer — respond to the questions also.Forty crucial questions.
时间： 9:16
zh-cn:现在我来谈谈我的电影。在过去三年，我拍摄了一部有关地球的电影。它的名字为“家园”。“家”。它是一部关于地球变化的电影。它也是一部精彩的关于生命征程的故事。我很自豪向你们来展示这预告片。
en:Now I am going to speak to you about my movie.For the last three years,I was shooting the earth for the movie.The name of the movie is &quot;Home&quot; —&quot;Maison.&quot;It is about the state of the planet.It&#39;s a fantastic story of life on the earth.I&#39;m very proud to show you the teaser.
时间： 9:41
zh-cn:视频：地球已有45亿年历史了。这些植物都已有几百万年的历史。然而我们人类能直立步行的历史则仅有20万年。我们已经成功地适应下来，并已经征服了整个地球。世世代代，我们养育我们的孩子，却不像在我们身边赖以生活的数百万其它物种那样。过去30年里，我有幸从高空仔细观察地球和它的居住者们。我们的生活依赖于我们地球的福祉。我们依靠水、森林、沙漠、海洋、渔业、种植业、农业，这些都是世界上最初的人类活动。地球把我们紧密联系在一起，它并没有造成我们之间的分离。我们大家都分享着地球馈赠的礼物。同样希望超越自身，变得更好。然而，我们开始垒高墙垣，让我们彼此分开。
en:Video: This Earth is four and a half billion years old.These plants, several hundred million years old.And we humans have been walking uprightfor only 200 thousand years.We&#39;ve managed to adapt,and have conquered the whole planet.For generations, we&#39;ve been raising our children,not unlike millions of other species living beside us.For the past 30 yearsI&#39;ve been closely watching the earth and its dwellersfrom high up in the sky.Our life is tied to the well-being of our planet.We depend on water,forests,deserts,oceans.Fishing,breeding,farmingare still the world&#39;s foremost human occupations.And what binds us togetheris far greater than what divides us.We all share the same need for the earth&#39;s gifts —the same wish to rise above ourselves,and become better.And yet we carry on raising wallsto keep us apart.
时间：11:20
zh-cn:今天，我们最大的战斗是为了保护我们地球的天然产品。在不到50年里，相比整个人类历史，我们人类已经更彻底地改变了地球改变了我们的家园。世界上一半的森林已经消失。水资源所剩不多。集约农业使土壤贫瘠。我们现有的能源是不可持续利用的。气候正在发生变化。我们正在危害我们自己。我们只是想改善我们的生活。但是，贫富差距在日益加剧。我们还没有认识到，地球的承受能力已无法包容我们的迅速发展。我们知道有可行的解决方案。为了更好的未来，我们每个人都有能力来改变这恶化趋势。因此，我们还等什么呢？（鼓掌）
en:Today our greatest battleis to protect the natural offerings of our planet.In less than 50 yearswe&#39;ve altered it more thoroughlythan in the entire history of mankind.Half of the world&#39;s forests have vanished.Water resources are running low.Intensive farming is depleting soils.Our energy sources are not sustainable.The climate is changing.We are endangering ourselves.We&#39;re only trying to improve our lives.But the wealth gaps are growing wider.We haven&#39;t yet understoodthat we&#39;re going at a much faster pacethan the planet can sustain.We know that solutions are available today.We all have the power to change this trendfor the better.So what are we waiting for?(Applause)
时间：13:12
zh-cn:伯特兰：吕克贝松是这电影的制片人。这部电影和一般的电影不一样。这部影片将免费发行。它没有版权。在6月5日，环境日那一天，每个人都可以在互联网上下载这电影。在6月5日电视和电影院的分销商们都被许可免费发行这部电影。这部电影是没有任何商业行为。当然，也提供给学校、城市、非政府组织和你。
en:YAB: Luc Besson is the producer of the movie.But it is not a normal movie.The film is going to be distributed free.This film has no copyright.On the five of June,the environment day,everybody can download the movie on Internet.The film is given for freeto the distributor for TV and theaterto show it the fifth of June.There is no business on this movie.It is also available for school,cities, NGOs and you.
时间：14:00
zh-cn:我们必须相信我们所知道的这一切。让我告诉你，此时悲观太不可取了，这的确是太迟了。但我们可以马上行动从而来为解决地球现有的问题贡献出一份力。最后，我想欢迎4700个新出生的婴儿，他们就在我开始这演讲期间诞生。谢谢你们。我爱你们。（鼓掌）
en:We have to believe what we know.Let me tell you something.It&#39;s too late to be pessimistic —really too late.We have all a part of the solutions.To finish,I would like to welcomethe 4,700th babyborn since the beginning of this talk.Merci beaucoup. I love you.(Applause)
