时间： 0:11
zh-cn:我演讲的主题是关于中国和印度的经济增长。并且一个我希望与你们探讨的一个问题是民主政治是否帮助了或阻碍了经济增长。你也许会说这不公平，因为我选择了两个国家来反对民主政治。事实上，我要做的事恰恰相反。我要用这两个国家为民主政治来做一个经济论证，而不是反对民主政治。
en:My topicis economic growth in China and India.And the question I want to explore with youis whether or notdemocracy has helped or has hinderedeconomic growth.You may say this is not fair,because I&#39;m selecting two countriesto make a case against democracy.Actually, exactly the oppositeis what I&#39;m going to do.I&#39;m going to use these two countriesto make an economic argument for democracy,rather than against democracy.
时间： 0:47
zh-cn:第一个问题是为什么中国的经济发展的比印度快那么多。在过去的30年中，从国内生产总值的增长率来看，中国是印度增长速率的两倍。在过去的五年中，这两个国家开始在经济增长方面有些类似。但是在过去的30年里，中国毫无疑问的发展的比印度好很多。举一个简单的例子中国有上海，印度有孟买。看看上海的高楼大厦。这是上海的浦东。这张印度的图片是孟买的达拉维贫民窟在印度。在这两张图片后主要的想法是中国的政府可以在法律的制裁上行动。这就可以为国家长久利益与过程设定计划，驱逐上百万的人—只是一个小小的技术问题。然而在印度，你却不能做这些，因为政府必须听从民众。政府被公众的意见所驱使。即使总理辛格也同意这样的做法。在一次印度金融界的采访中，辛格说道他想让孟买成为另一个上海。这可是一位沉浸在人文价值中的牛津大学毕业的经济学家，然而他赞同上海的高压政策。
en:The first question thereis why China has grown so much fasterthan India.Over the last 30 years,in terms of the GDP growth rates,China has grown at twice the rate of India.In the last five years,the two countries have begun to converge somewhatin economic growth.But over the last 30 years,China undoubtedlyhas done much better than India.One simple answeris China has Shanghai and India has Mumbai.Look at the skyline of Shanghai.This is the Pudong area.The picture on Indiais the Dharavi slum of Mumbaiin India.The idea therebehind these two picturesis that the Chinese governmentcan act above rule of law.It can planfor the long-term benefits of the countryand in the process,evict millions of people —that&#39;s just a small technical issue.Whereas in India, you cannot do that,because you have to listen to the public.You&#39;re being constrained by the public&#39;s opinion.Even Prime Minister Manmohan Singhagrees with that view.In an interviewprinted in the financial press of India,He said that he wants to make Mumbaianother Shanghai.This is an Oxford-trained economiststeeped in humanistic values,and yet he agreeswith the high-pressure tactics of Shanghai.
时间： 2:25
zh-cn:所以允许我称上海模式经济增长，为促进经济发展有以下特点：基础设施，飞机场，高速公路，立交桥等等。并且你需要一个强大的政府去做到，因为要做到你不能尊重私人财产权。你不能被公众的意见所驱使。而且你要有国家公有制，尤其是土地资产。去快速的建设和推出基础设施。这种模式的含义是民主政治是一个经济增长的障碍，而不会促进经济增长。这里有个关键的问题。那就是基础设施对经济的增长有多重要？这是一个关键的问题。如果你认为基础设施对经济增长是至关重要的，那么你就会证明一个强力的政府促进经济增长是必须的。如果你相信基础设施对经济增长没那么重要的话，那么你就不会那么着重于强力的政府。
en:So let me call it the Shanghai model of economic growth,that emphasizes the following featuresfor promoting economic development:infrastructures, airports,highways, bridges, things like that.And you need a strong government to do that,because you cannot respect private property rights.You cannot be constrained by the public&#39;s opinion.You need also state ownership,especially of land assets,in order to build and roll out infrastructuresvery quickly.The implication of that modelis that democracyis a hindrance for economic growth,rather than a facilitator of economic growth.Here&#39;s the key question.Just how important are infrastructuresfor economic growth?This is a key issue.If you believe that infrastructures are very important for economic growth,then you would argue a strong government is necessaryto promote growth.If you believethat infrastructures are not as important as many people believe,then you will put less emphasison strong government.
时间： 3:35
zh-cn:为那个问题举个例子，让我给你两个国家举例。为了简单的目的，我就称他们为国家1另外一个是国家2.国家1在基础设施方面比国家2拥有系统的优越性。国家1拥有更多的手机，并且国家1有更长的铁路线。所以如果我问你，“这俩个国家哪个是中国哪个是印度，并且哪个国家增长的更快？”如果你相信那个基础设施的观点，那么你就会说，“国家1一定是中国。他们一定是因为基础设施更好促进了经济发展。国家2应该是印度。”
en:So to illustrate that question,let me give you two countries.And for the sake of brevity,I&#39;ll call one country Country 1and the other country Country 2.Country 1has a systematic advantage over Country 2in infrastructures.Country 1 has more telephones,and Country 1 has a longer system of railways.So if I were to ask you,&quot;Which is Chinaand which is India,and which country has grown faster?&quot;if you believe in the infrastructure view,then you will say, &quot;Country 1 must be China.They must have done better, in terms of economic growth.And Country 2 is possibly India.&quot;
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:事实上拥有较多手机国家是前苏联，这是根据1989年的数据得到的。在前苏联报告了如此冷人钦佩的手机统计后，这个国家倒塌了。这可不是好事。这是一张赫鲁晓夫的图片。我知道在1989年他已经不是前苏联的总统了，但是这是我能找到的最好的一张图片。（笑声）手机，基础设施并不能保证经济的增长。国家2，那个拥有少数手机的，是中国。自从1989年，这个国家以每年两位数字的速率成长了20年。如果你除了手机那件事之外一点都不了解中国和前苏联的话，那你就对未来20年经济的增长做了个错误的预告。
en:Actually the country with more telephonesis the Soviet Union,and the data referred to 1989.After the country reported very impressive statistics on telephones,the country collapsed.That&#39;s not too good.The picture there is Khrushchev.I know that in 1989he no longer ruled the Soviet Union,but that&#39;s the best picture that I can find.(Laughter)Telephones, infrastructuresdo not guarantee you economic growth.Country 2, that has fewer telephones,is China.Since 1989,the country has performed at a double-digit rateevery year for the last 20 years.If you know nothing about China and the Soviet Unionother than the fact about their telephones,you would have made a poor predictionabout their economic growthin the next two decades.
时间： 5:16
zh-cn:那个拥有更长铁路的国家1，是印度。国家2是中国。这是个关于这两个国家很少为人知的事实是的，在今天中国比印度拥有巨大的基础设施优势。但是在很多年里，直到90年代，中国的基础设施比印度还比印度不足在发展中国家里，最常见的交通工具铁路，并且英国人在印度建了很多铁路。印度比这两国都小，但是它却用更长的铁路系统直到90年代。所以明显地，基础设施并不能解释为什么中国比印度在90年达末之前也做得好。
en:Country 1, that has a longer system of railways,is actually India.And Country 2 is China.This is a very little known factabout the two countries.Yes, today China has a huge infrastructure advantageover India.But for many years,until the late 1990s,China had an infrastructure disadvantagevis-a-vis India.In developing countries,the most common mode of transportationis the railways,and the British built a lot of railways in India.India is the smaller of the two countries,and yet it had a longer system of railwaysuntil the late 1990s.So clearly,infrastructure doesn&#39;t explainwhy China did better before the late 1990s,as compared with India.
时间： 6:08
zh-cn:事实上，如果你在全球寻找证据，证据反而会偏向显示基础设施事实上是经济增长的结果。在经济增中，政府积累更多的资源，并且政府才能投资更多的基础设施—而基础设施并不是经济增长的原因。这是个明显的中国经济增长的故事。让我来更直接的看这个问题。民主政治对经济增长不好吗？现在让我们看看这两个国家，国家A和国家B。国家A,在1990年拥有300美金的人均GDP与国际B相比较，它有460美金的人均GDP。在2008年，国家A超过了国家B国家A有700美金的人均GDP而国际B有650美金的人均GDP。这两个国家都在亚洲。
en:In fact, if you look at the evidence worldwide,the evidence is more supportive of the viewthat the infrastructure are actually the result of economic growth.The economy grows,government accumulates more resources,and the government can invest in infrastructure —rather than infrastructure being a causefor economic growth.And this is clearly the storyof the Chinese economic growth.Let me look at this question more directly.Is democracy bad for economic growth?Now let&#39;s turn to two countries,Country A and Country B.Country A, in 1990,had about $300 per capita GDPas compared with Country B,which had $460 in per capita GDP.By 2008,Country A has surpassed Country Bwith $700 per capita GDPas compared with $650 per capita GDP.Both countries are in Asia.
时间： 7:10
zh-cn:如果我问你，“这两个是什么国家？哪一个是民主国家？你或许会说，“恩，说不定国家A是中国国家B是印度。”事实上，国家A是民主印度，而国家B是巴基斯坦—一个长时间在军事统治下的国家。并且我们比较印度和中国是非常常见的。这是应为这两个国家有用相同的人口大小。但是更加天然的比较其实是印度和巴基斯坦。这两个国家在地理上是相似的。它们拥有复杂的，但互通的历史。在这个比较中，民主政治在经济增长方面看起来非常非常好。
en:If I were to ask you,&quot;Which are the two Asian countries?And which one is a democracy?&quot;you may argue,&quot;Well, maybe Country A is Chinaand Country B is India.&quot;In fact, Country Ais democratic India,and Country B is Pakistan —the country that has a long periodof military rule.And it&#39;s very commonthat we compare India with China.That&#39;s because the two countrieshave about the same population size.But the more natural comparisonis actually between India and Pakistan.Those two countries are geographically similar.They have a complicated, but shared common history.By that comparison,democracy looks very, very goodin terms of economic growth.
时间： 8:02
zh-cn:所以为什么经济学家沉迷于独裁主义政府呢？一个原因是东亚模式。在东亚，我们拥有很成功的经济增长的故事例如：韩国，台湾，香港和新加坡。这些经济系统中有些在69,70和80年代是被专制政府所统治的这个观点所带来的问题就像问一个中彩票的人，“你中过彩票吗？”他们所有人都回答，“是，我中过彩票。”然后你就下结论：中彩票的几率是百分之百。因为你从来不去问也不想麻烦去问那些也同样买了彩票但是没有中奖的人。
en:So why do economists fall in lovewith authoritarian governments?One reason is the East Asian Model.In East Asia,we have had successful economic growth storiessuch as Korea, Taiwan,Hong Kong and Singapore.Some of these economieswere ruled by authoritarian governmentsin the 60s and 70sand 1980s.The problem with that viewis like asking all the winners of lotteries,&quot;Have you won the lottery?&quot;And they all tell you, &quot;Yes, we have won the lottery.&quot;And then you draw the conclusionthe odds of winning the lotteryare 100 percent.The reason is you never goand bother to ask the loserswho also purchased lottery ticketsand didn&#39;t end up winning the prize.
时间： 8:54
zh-cn:对于这些东亚成功的独裁政府，他们是失败的。韩国成功了，朝鲜没有。台湾成功了，毛泽东领导下的中国没有。缅甸没有成功。菲律宾也没有成功。如果你看看全世界的统计数据，其实没有这个专制政府比民主政府在经济增长上更有系统优势的证据。所以东亚模式有它巨大的选择偏差—它被认为是选择一个被动的变量，这是我们一直告诉学生们要避免的。
en:For each of these successful authoritarian governmentsin East Asia,there&#39;s a matched failure.Korea succeeded, North Korea didn&#39;t.Taiwan succeeded, China under Mao Zedong didn&#39;t.Burma didn&#39;t succeed.The Philippines didn&#39;t succeed.If you look at the statistical evidence worldwide,there&#39;s really no support for the ideathat authoritarian governmentshold a systematic edge over democraciesin terms of economic growth.So the East Asian modelhas this massive selection bias —it is known as selecting on a dependent variable,something we always tell our students to avoid.
时间： 9:36
zh-cn:所以到底为什么中国发展的如此之快呢？我会带你到文化大革命时期，去比较当中国发狂的时候，和在英迪拉·甘地带领下的印度国家的绩效。在这里的问题是：在那时这两个国家谁做的更好，中国还是印度？中国那时还处于文化大革命时期。结果是中国即使在文化大革命时期，在国民生产总值方面比印度也要增长的快将近百分之2.2每年人均GDP。所以当中国发狂了。整个国家都疯狂了。这一定意味着这个国家在经济增长方面有一定的优势去克服文化大革命所带来的负面的影响。中国当时拥有的优势是人力资源—什么都没有就只有人力。
en:So exactly why did China grow so much faster?I will take you to the Cultural Revolution,when China went mad,and compare that country&#39;s performance with Indiaunder Indira Gandhi.The question there is: Which country did better,China or India?China was during the Cultural Revolution.It turns out even during the Cultural Revolution,China out-perfomed Indiain terms of GDP growthby an average of about 2.2 percent every yearin terms of per capita GDP.So that&#39;s when China was mad.The whole country went mad.It must mean that the countryhad something so advantageous to itself in terms of economic growthto overcome the negative effectsof the Cultural Revolution.The advantage the country hadwas human capital —nothing else but human capital.
时间：10:32
zh-cn:这是一个90年代早期的世界发展指标数据。而且这是我可以找到的最早的资料。成人的识字比率在中国是百分之77而与之比较印度是百分之48.中国和印度女性的识字率的对比是有明显的差别的。（非常锋利的）我还没有定义什么是识字。在中国，识字的定义是可以读也可以写中国1500多的字符。在印度，识字的定义，（准确的说）识字的操作定义是是可以去用你会说的语言的文字写自己名字的能力。这两国在识字方面的差别是比这个资料所显示的更大的。如果你去找另外的资料例如人类发展指数，这一资料系列可以追溯的70年代早期，你可以看到一摸一样的对比。中国与印度相比拥有了人力资源方面巨大的优势
en:This is the world development index indicator datain the early 1990s.And this is the earliest data that I can find.The adult literacy rate in Chinais 77 percentas compared with 48 percent in India.The contrast in literacy ratesis especially sharpbetween Chinese women and Indian women.I haven&#39;t told you about the definition of literacy.In China, the definition of literacyis the ability to read and write1,500 Chinese characters.In India, the definition of literacy,operating definition of literacy,is the ability, the grand ability,to write your own namein whatever language you happen to speak.The gap between the two countries in terms of literacyis much more substantialthan the data here indicated.If you go to other sources of datasuch as Human Development Index,that data series,go back to the early 1970s,you see exactly the same contrast.China held a huge advantagein terms of human capitalvis-a-vis India.
时间：11:47
zh-cn:预期寿命：最早在1965年，中国拥有在预期寿命方面巨大的优势。平均来看，中国人在1965年可以比印度人平均多活十年。所以如果你有成为中国人或者是印度人的选择权的话，你肯定会想成为中国人去多活10年。如果你在1965年做出了这个决定，那这个决定的副作用是在下一年我们发生了文化大革命。所以关于这些决定你一定要小心考虑
en:Life expectancies:as early as 1965,China had a huge advantage in life expectancy.On average, as a Chinese in 1965,you lived 10 years morethan an average Indian.So if you have a choicebetween being a Chinese and being an Indian,you would want to become a Chinesein order to live 10 years longer.If you made that decision in 1965,the down side of thatis the next year we have the Cultural Revolution.So you have to always think carefullyabout these decisions.
时间：12:22
zh-cn:如果你不能选择你的国籍的话，那么你就会想成为印度的男人。因为，作为印度男人，你比印度的女人拥有大约2年长的寿命。这是一个非常奇怪的事实在国家之间拥有这种模式是非常少见的。这显示了在印度社会中系统对女性的歧视和偏见。好消息是，在2006年印度已经没有了男性和女性的平均寿命的差距。在今天，印度的女性比男性拥有相当大的平均寿命优势。所以印度正在回到正常的状态。但是印度在性别平等方面任然有很多工作需要做。
en:If you cannot chose your nationality,then you will want to become an Indian man.Because, as an Indian man,you have about two years of life expectancy advantagevis-a-vis Indian women.This is an extremely strange fact.It&#39;s very rare among countriesto have this kind of pattern.It shows the systematic discrimination and biasesin the Indian societyagainst women.The good news is, by 2006,India has closed the gapbetween men and womenin terms of life expectancy.Today, Indian women have a sizable life expectancy edgeover Indian men.So India is reverting to the normal.But India still has a lot of work to doin terms of gender equality.
时间：13:12
zh-cn:这是两张在广东省服装厂和印度服装厂照的照片。在中国，都是女性。在中国的沿海地区百分之60至80的劳动力是女性，然而在印度，都是男性。金融时报印刷了这张印度纺织工厂的照片与之的标题是“印度的纺织品已超过中国。”就从观察这两张图片来说，我说不，印度在一段时间内还不会超过中国。如果你看看别的东亚国家，女性在经济腾飞中起到了巨大的作用—在东亚创造经济奇迹方面。印度要赶上中国还有很长的路要走。
en:These are the two picturestaken of garment factories in Guangdong Provinceand garment factories in India.In China, it&#39;s all women.60 to 80 percent of the workforce in China is womenin the coastal part of the country,whereas in India, it&#39;s all men.Financial Times printed this pictureof an Indian textile factorywith the title, &quot;India Poised to Overtake China in Textile.&quot;By looking at these two pictures,I say no, it won&#39;t overtake China for a while.If you look at other East Asian countries,women there play a hugely important rolein terms of economic take-off —in terms of creating the manufacturing miracleassociated with East Asia.India still has a long way to goto catch up with China.
时间：14:01
zh-cn:那么问题是，中国的政治体系如何？你谈论到人力资源，你谈论到教育和公共健康。那么关于政治系统呢？一党的政治体制是不是真的促进了中国的经济发展呢？事实上，问题的答案要比它微妙许多。这取决于你对区别政治体系的静力和动力的看法。静止的说，中国是个一党政治的系统，独裁主义—这点是毋庸置疑的。动态的来说，它随着时间而改变成为较少独裁的、更加民主的政治系统。当你解释改变—例如，经济增长；经济增长是关于改变的—当你解释改变，你用别的改变过的事情来解释改变，而不是用一个不变的事情来解释改变。有时一个不变的作用可以解释改变，但不变的作用仅仅解释了在改变事物上的相互作用的改变。
en:Then the issue is,what about the Chinese political system?You talk about human capital,you talk about education and public health.What about the political system?Isn&#39;t it true that the one-party political systemhas facilitated economic growth in China?Actually, the answer is more nuanced and subtle than that.It depends on a distinction that you drawbetween statics of the political systemand the dynamics of the political system.Statically, China is a one-party system,authoritarian — there&#39;s no question about it.Dynamically, it has changed over timeto become less authoritarian and more democratic.When you explain change —for example, economic growth;economic growth is about change —when you explain change,you use other things that have changed to explain change,rather than using the constant to explain change.Sometimes a fixed effect can explain change,but a fixed effect only explains changesin interaction with the things that change.
时间：15:06
zh-cn:在政治变化方面，中国已经介绍了村选举。中国增加了业主的安全。并且中国增加了长时间土地租赁的保障。在中国农村也有金融改革。在中国农村也有企业家革命。对我来说，这种政治转变的步伐太慢了，太循序渐进了。并且我的观点是中国将会面临一些实质性的挑战，因为他们还没有在政治改革方面走得更远和更快。然而，这个系统已进入了一个更为自由的方向，进入了一个更为民主的方向。
en:In terms of the political changes,they have introduced village elections.They have increased the security of proprietors.And they have increased the securitywith long-term land leases.There are also financial reforms in rural China.There is also a rural entrepreneurial revolution in China.To me, the pace of political changesis too slow, too gradual.And my own view is the countryis going to face some substantial challenges,because they have not moved further and faster on political reforms.But nevertheless,the system has moved in a more liberal direction,moved in a more democratic direction.
时间：15:47
zh-cn:你可以把一摸一样的民主观点运用在印度。事实上，当印度经济增长率在增长是—大约是百分之一，二每年的时候—那是印度最不民主的时期。在1975年甘地宣布进入紧急状态。印度的政府拥有和操作所有的电视台。一个在90年代鲜为人知的事实是印度不仅开始进行经济改革，印度还进行了政治改革通过引入村自治媒体私有化和介绍信息自由的行为。所以从方向方面来看动态的观点对中国和印度都是合适的。
en:You can apply exactly the same dynamic perspective on India.In fact, when India was growingat a Hindu rate of growth —about one percent, two percent a year —that was when India was least democratic.Indira Gandhi declared emergency rule in 1975.The Indian government owned and operatedall the TV stations.A little-known fact about India in the 1990sis that the countrynot only has undertaken economic reforms,the country has also undertaken political reformsby introducing village self-rule,privatization of mediaand introducing freedom of information acts.So the dynamic perspectivefits both with China and in Indiain terms of the direction.
时间：16:36
zh-cn:为什么很多人相信印度依然是个增长灾难呢？其中一个原因是他们总是把印度和中国相比。但是中国在经济增长方面是个超级巨星。如果你是个NBA球员而且你总是被和迈尔克乔丹相比的话，你将会看起来没那么印象深刻。但是这并不证明你是个差的篮球运动员。与超级巨星相比是个错误的标准。事实上，如果你把印度和平均的发展中国家相比的话，即使在印度加速增长之前—现在印度增长百分之8到9每年—就是在这之前，印度在在新兴经济国家中经济增长是排名第四的。这确实是一个非常令人印象深刻的记录。
en:Why do many people believethat India is still a growth disaster?One reasonis they are always comparing India with China.But China is a superstarin terms of economic growth.If you are a NBA playerand you are always being compared to Michael Jordan,you&#39;re going to look not so impressive.But that doesn&#39;t meanthat you&#39;re a bad basketball player.Comparing with a superstaris the wrong benchmark.In fact, if you compare Indiawith the average developing country,even before the more recent periodof acceleration of Indian growth —now India is growing between eight and nine percent —even before this period,India was ranked fourth in terms of economic growthamong emerging economies.This is a very impressive record indeed.
时间：17:30
zh-cn:让我们想象未来：巨龙和大象，哪个国家拥有增长的势头？中国，我相信，仍然具有一些优秀的原始经济基本面—最主要的是社会资本，公众健康，一种你在印度找不到的某种意义上的平等主义。但是我认为印度拥有增长的势头。它具有正在改善的经济基本面。印度政府已经在基础教育，基础健康方面投资。我认为政府应该做更多，然而，这个方向已经慢慢拿成为了正确的方向。印度拥有经济增长正确的制度环境，而中国仍然为政治改革努力奋斗着。
en:Let&#39;s think about the future:the dragon vis-a-vis the elephant.Which country has the growth momentum?China, I believe, still hassome of the excellent raw fundamentals —mostly the social capital,the public health,the sense of egalitarianismthat you don&#39;t find in India.But I believe that India has the momentum.It has the improving fundamentals.The government has invested in basic education,has invested in basic health.I believe the government should do more,but nevertheless, the direction it is moving inis the right direction.India has the right institutional conditionsfor economic growth,whereas China is still strugglingwith political reforms.
时间：18:16
zh-cn:我认为政治改革是中国保持增长必不可少的一部分。并且这是非常重要的通过政治改革去广泛分享经济增长的利益。我不知道这到底会不会发生，但我是一个乐观主义者。但愿，五年以后，我可以在TEDGlobal上作报告说政治改革会在中国发生。
en:I believe that the political reforms are a must for Chinato maintain its growth.And it&#39;s very important to have political reforms,to have widely shared benefits of economic growth.I don&#39;t know whether that&#39;s going to happen or not,but I&#39;m an optimist.Hopefully, five years from now, I&#39;m going to report to TEDGlobalthat political reforms will happen in China.
时间：18:36
zh-cn:非常感谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：18:38
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
