时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我们今天来讲讲《难以忽视的真相》之续集。现在是时候再次讨论《难以忽视的真相》了。一个真相每个人都会去关注，但是却没有人愿意去谈论。总得有人带头，于是我决定这么做如果你恐惧全球变暖，那么且慢，让我们先了解局部变暖。今天我们将讨论局部变暖。
en:We are going to talk today about the sequel of &quot;Inconvenient Truth.&quot;It&#39;s time again to talk about &quot;Inconvenient Truth,&quot;a truth that everyone is concerned about,but nobody is willing to talk about.Somebody has to take the lead, and I decided to do it.If you are scared by global warming,wait until we learn about local warming.We will talk today about local warming.
时间： 0:40
zh-cn:重要健康提示:撰写博客可能危机你的健康，尤其是男性。这个信息作为一项公共福利而告知大家。撰写博客影响你的姿势。我们从姿势部分开始谈。这是一位不在撰写博客的女士的坐姿，这是一位在撰写博客的女士坐姿。(笑声)这是一位男士的自然坐姿，可以保持通风。(笑声)这是一般男士的自然站姿。我想定是这幅图让Chris鼓足勇气力邀我参与这横向的思维会议。这是一位男士在撰写博客时的坐姿，而结果是，&quot;为了更舒适，当男性使用笔记本电脑工作的时候倾向于两腿比女士分得更开。但是，他们将会采取一种不那么自然的坐姿，为的是让在他们膝上的笔记本保持平衡，那会导致两股之间的体温显著身高，这就导致了所谓的&quot;局部变暖&quot;的问题。(笑声)
en:Important health message: blogging may be hazardous to your health,especially if you are a male.This message is given as a public service.Blogging affects your posture. We start with the posture.This is the posture of ladies who are not blogging;this is the posture of ladies who are blogging.(Laughter)This is the natural posture of a man sitting,squatting for ventilation purposes.(Laughter)And this is the natural posture of a standing man,and I think this picture inspired Chris to insert meinto the lateral thinking session.This is male blogging posture sitting, and the result is,&quot;For greater comfort,men naturally sit with their legs farther apart than women,when working on laptop.However, they will adopt a less natural posturein order to balance it on their laps,which resulted in a significant rise of body heatbetween their thighs.&quot; This is the issue of local warming.(Laughter)
时间： 1:46
zh-cn:这是一份非常严肃的报纸，英格兰的泰晤士报—非常严肃。这是非常—(笑声)先生们和女士们，严肃点。这是一项非常严肃的研究，你应该读一下有下划线的部分。并且请小心，你的基因在危险之中。技术怪才们将会濒临绝种么?事实:在那些笔记本电脑高覆盖的国家的人口增长-(笑声)我需要Hans Rosling医生给我一个图表。(掌声)全球变暖有意思。(笑声)但是让我们恰如其分的看待事情。
en:This is a very serious newspaper; it&#39;s Times of England —very serious. This is a very —(Laughter)— gentlemen and ladies, be serious.This is a very serious research, that you should read the underline.And be careful, your genes are in danger.Will geeks become endangered species?The fact: population growth in countries with high laptop —(Laughter)I need Hans Rosling to give me a graph.(Applause)Global warming fun.(Laughter)But let&#39;s keep things in proportion.
时间： 2:31
zh-cn:怎样用五个简单的保健方法。首先，你可以使用自然通风。你可以使用身体呼吸。你应该穿上合适的衣物来保持凉爽。你应搞注意你的身姿 —- 这是不正确的。你们可以再从Chris那里给我再要一分半钟么，因为我有一个视频我必须播放给你们看。(掌声)
en:How to take care in five easy steps:first of all, you can use natural ventilation. You can use body breath.You should stay cool with the appropriate clothing.You should care about your posture — this is not right.Can you extract from Chris another minute and a half for me,because I have a video I have to show you.(Applause)
时间： 2:56
zh-cn:你们很棒。这是正确的姿势。让我们来看看无线网络的另外一项益处，我们昨天已经了解了其许多好处。无线上网让你可以避开处理器。还有一些加强的保护措施我希望跟你们分享。并且我想，马上感谢飞利浦公司所提供的帮助。这是一项在1986完成的研究，但是它依然有效。阴囊温度反映了睾丸温度修剪体毛可以降低温度。
en:You are great. This is the correct posture.Another benefit of Wi-Fi, we learned yesterday about the benefits of Wi-Fi.Wi-Fi enables you to avoid the processor. And there are some enhancedprotection measures, which I would like to share with you,and I would like, in a minute, to thank Philips for helping.This is a research which was done in &#39;86, but it&#39;s still valid.Scrotal temperature reflects intratesticular temperatureand is lowered by shaving.
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:顺带一提，我的英语不太好，我不晓得阴囊得用复数scrotal，我只会用单数scrotum。我猜这个词复数形式和“媒体”的变形差不多数字阴囊，数字媒体。去年我才发现我又多了一个阴囊（指终于知道要用复数）。（笑）
en:By the way, I must admit, my English is not so good,I didn&#39;t know what is scrotal; I understand it&#39;s a scrotum.I guess in plural it&#39;s scrotal, like medium and media.Digital scrotum, digital media.And only last year I recognized that I&#39;m a proud scrotum owner.(Laughter)
时间： 3:47
zh-cn:我的研究还多亏了美国政府，看来纳税人的钱没白花。
en:And this research is being precipitated by the U.S. government,so you can see that your tax man is working for good causes.
时间： 3:54
zh-cn:影片：男子：飞利浦bodygroom采用平滑符合人体工学的设计，让你安全简单地修剪杂乱的腋毛在—（消音）—附近的卷毛，还有在（消音）和（消音）下面不易清除的部位等。世界因bodygroom而不同，你的（消音）也会不同。最近，我的背部变得清爽腋下也整洁干净，还有我的（消音）也变得光溜溜的，嗯，只能说我的生活变得十分舒适。
en:Video: Man: The Philips Bodygroom has a sleek,ergonomic design for a safe and easy way to trimthose scruffy underarm hairs, the untidy curls on and around your[bleep], as well as the hard to reach locks on the underside of your[bleep] and [bleep]. Once you use the Bodygroom, the world looks different.And so does your [bleep]. These days, with a hair-free back,well-groomed shoulders and an extra optical inch on my [bleep],well, let&#39;s just say life has gotten pretty darn cozy.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:Yossi Vardi：这是去年最受欢迎的医学广告—人们称它为“光溜溜的飞利浦”。让我们为飞利浦鼓掌—（掌声）—他们的设计真的很人性化。这是他们的广告，真是—我可没动手脚哦，这是原版的。笔记本电脑可以解决人口过都问题。要是东西坏了，还可以用在别处发挥余热。
en:Yossi Vardi: This is one of the most popular viral advertisement of last year,known as the optical inch by Philips. Let&#39;s applaud Philips —(Applause)— for this gesture for humanity.And this is how they are promoting the product. This is —I didn&#39;t touch it, this is original.Laptop use to solve overpopulation. And if everything failed,there are some secondary uses.
时间： 5:02
zh-cn:下次要是TED还请我来的话，我的标题会是“不要把手机放在口袋里”。这是现在年轻人的主张。(掌声)顺带一提，我可不是光说不做的人哦……我会身体力行……(笑声)凌晨4点钟。(笑声)你不能用这张图片。(掌声)
en:And then our next talk, our next TED if you invite mewill be why you should not carry a cell phone in your pocket.And this is what the young generation says.(Applause)And I just want to show you that I&#39;m not just preaching,but I also practice.(Laughter)4 am in the morning.(Laughter)You cannot use this picture.(Applause)
时间： 5:37
zh-cn:现在，我有一些小奖品，这是一个飞利浦bodygroom身体剃毛器。一份给领导。(掌声)有人觉得很危险，需要这个吗？(笑声)有哪位女士要么，哪位女士?非常感谢。(掌声)
en:Now, I have some mini TED Prizes, this is the Philips Bodygroom,one for our leader.(Applause)Anybody feels threatened, anybody really need it?(Laughter)Any lady, any lady? Thank you very much.(Applause)
