时间： 0:13
zh-cn:Forrest North:任何合作的开始都起源于一段交谈而我非常愿意和你们一同分享我们刚开始时的一些谈话我是在华盛顿州的一个小木屋里长大的拥有相当多的空闲时间
en:Forrest North: The beginning of any collaborationstarts with a conversation.And I would like to share with yousome of the bits of the conversation that we started with.I grew up in a log cabin in Washington statewith too much time on my hands.
时间： 0:27
zh-cn:Yves Behar:而我则是在风景秀丽的瑞士
en:Yves Behar: And in scenic Switzerland for me.
时间： 0:30
zh-cn:Forrest North:一直以来我对清洁能源交通工具都充满了热情曾经有一次我驾驶陆地风帆穿越了内华达州的一个沙漠。
en:FN: I always had a passion for alternative vehicles.This is a land yacht racing across the desert in Nevada.
时间： 0:37
zh-cn:YB：那结合了风帆和滑雪的技术
en:YB: Combination of windsurfing and skiing into this invention there.
时间： 0:41
zh-cn:FN：另外我还有一项非常危险的发明这是一个十万伏特的泰斯拉变压器是我在自己的卧室里搞出来的对此，我老妈非常恼火
en:FN: And I also had an interest in dangerous inventions.This is a 100,000-volt Tesla coilthat I built in my bedroom,much to the dismay of my mother.
时间： 0:52
zh-cn:YB：要是我妈也会恼火这确实是一个非常危险的年轻人的时尚（笑声）
en:YB: To the dismay of my mother,this is dangerous teenage fashion right there.(Laughter)
时间： 1:00
zh-cn:FN：我对清洁能源的热情终于落到了现实我曾经开着一辆太阳能车横穿了澳大利亚还有美国和日本
en:FN: And I brought this all together,this passion with alternative energy and raced a solar car across Australia —also the U.S. and Japan.
时间： 1:08
zh-cn:YB：风能，太阳能，我们谈论了很多话题太多让我们兴奋不已的话题于是，我们决定一起做一个独具一格的项目把工程学、设计学等都结合起来
en:YB: So, wind power, solar power — we had a lot to talk about.We had a lot that got us excited.So we decided to do a special project together.To combine engineering and design and ...
时间： 1:22
zh-cn:FN:真的做一个全智能的产品出来，一个牛X的东西
en:FN: Really make a fully integrated product, something beautiful.
时间： 1:25
zh-cn:YB：然后就有了这个宝贝（笑声）
en:YB: And we made a baby.(Laughter)
时间： 1:28
zh-cn:FN：现在能请出我们的宝贝吗？（掌声）这位美女是全自动的每小时能达到150英里的速度是其他普通电动摩托车速度的两倍对于电动摩托车来说这确实是一个令人振奋的事情正是工业设计的完美结合它有令人惊奇的用户体验跟Yves Behar合作真是太棒了他想出来了我们的名字和logo，我们是Mission Motors(该品牌名）尽管我们只有3分钟的时间但是我们能够谈论它好几个小时
en:FN: Can you bring out our baby?(Applause)This baby is fully electric.It goes 150 miles an hour.It&#39;s twice the range of any electric motorcycle.Really the exciting thing about a motorcycleis just the beautiful integration of engineering and design.It&#39;s got an amazing user experience.It was wonderful working with Yves Behar.He came up with our name and logo. We&#39;re Mission Motors.And we&#39;ve only got three minutes,but we could talk about it for hours.
时间： 2:04
zh-cn:YB：谢谢大家
en:YB: Thank you.
时间： 2:06
zh-cn:FN：谢谢TED，谢谢克里斯，邀请我们来到这里（掌声）
en:FN: Thank you TED. And thank you Chris, for having us.(Applause)
