时间： 0:15
zh-cn:还是小孩时，在家里爬来爬去，我记得这些土耳其地毯，还有这些景象：打斗的景象、恩爱的景象。你看，这只动物试图对抗士兵刺下的矛。我妈上星期拍这些照片，这些地毯，到现在我都还记得。还有另一个物品，这个高耸的家具，有动物、怪兽和裸女 –对小孩而言蛮可怕的。
en:Being a child, and sort of crawling around the house,I remember these Turkish carpets,and there were these scenes, these battle scenes, these love scenes.I mean, look, this animal is trying to fight back this spearfrom this soldier.And my mom took these pictures actually, last week,of our carpets, and I remember this to this day.There was another object, this sort of towering piece of furniturewith creatures and gargoyles and nudity —pretty scary stuff, when you&#39;re a little kid.
时间： 0:45
zh-cn:今天我记得的是，这些物品都会说故事，因此说故事对我的工作有很强的影响。另外还有一个影响。我还是个青少年，15、16岁，像其他青少年一样，想做自己喜爱、自己信仰的事。因此，我融合了我最喜欢的两件事：滑雪和风帆。那是避开瑞士枯燥气候的好方法。
en:What I remember today from this is that objects tell stories,so storytelling has been a really strong influence in my work.And then there was another influence.I was a teenager, and at 15 or 16, I guess like all teenagers,we want to just do what we love and what we believe in.And so,I fused together the two things I loved the most,which was skiing and windsurfing.Those are pretty good escapes from the drab weather in Switzerland.
时间： 1:17
zh-cn:因此，我创作了这两件事的组合：我拿了我的雪橇及滑溜板，安上一个桅杆座，几条绑脚带及一些金属鳍片，就这样，在结冰的湖面高速滑行。那真是个死亡陷阱。很难相信，它可以用，但却非常危险。因此，我知道我该去读设计学校。(笑声)我是说，看看那些图像。(笑声)
en:So, I created this compilation of the two:I took my skis and I took a board and I put a mast foot in there,and some foot straps, and some metal fins,and here I was, going really fast on frozen lakes.It was really a death trap. I mean, it was incredible,it worked incredibly well, but it was really dangerous.And I realized then I had to go to design school.(Laughter)I mean, look at those graphics there.(Laughter)
时间： 1:47
zh-cn:因此我去读了设计学校，那是 ’90年代早期，当我毕业时，我发现硅谷发生着奇特的事，我想要去那里，我发现计算机正在走入家庭。计算机要改变才能和我们在家里相处。我找到一份工作，在设计顾问公司上班，我们会去参加会议，经理们进来，他们会说：&quot;我们要做的事，真的很重要。&quot;他们将为项目取个代码，大都取自星际大战，如：C3PO、尤达、路克。充满期待，我这个年轻设计师坐在会议室后方，我会举手问问题。回想当初，或许是些笨问题，像：&quot;Cap Lock 键 (大写键) 做什么用?&quot;或 &quot;Num Lock 键 (数字键) 做什么用?&quot; － 就是这个。人们真的使用它吗？他们需要它吗？在家里要它吗？(笑声)
en:So, I went to design school,and it was the early &#39;90s when I finished.And I saw something extraordinary happening in Silicon Valley,so I wanted to be there,and I saw that the computer was coming into our homes,that it had to change in order to be with us in our homes.And so I got myself a job and I was working for a consultancy,and we would get in to these meetings,and these managers would come in,and they would say,&quot;Well, what we&#39;re going to do here is really important, you know.&quot;And they would give the projects code names, you know,mostly from &quot;Star Wars,&quot; actually: things like C3PO, Yoda, Luke.So, in anticipation, I would be this young designerin the back of the room, and I would raise my hand,and I would ask questions.I mean, in retrospect, probably stupid questions,but things like, &quot;What&#39;s this Caps Lock key for?&quot;or &quot;What&#39;s this Num Lock key for?&quot; You know, that thing?&quot;You know, do people really use it?Do they need it? Do they want it in their homes?&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 2:59
zh-cn:那时我觉得，他们不想改变传统的东西；他们不想改变内部。他们要设计师去创造表皮，放些好看的东西在盒子外。我不想当彩妆师。那不是我想做的。我不想做这样的美容师。接着我读到这句名言：&quot;广告是公司为没有原创性，而付出的代价。&quot;(笑声)
en:What I realized then is, they didn&#39;t really want to changethe legacy stuff; they didn&#39;t want to change the insides.They were really looking for us, the designers, to create the skins,to put some pretty stuff outside of the box.And I didn&#39;t want to be a colorist.It wasn&#39;t what I wanted to do.I didn&#39;t want to be a stylist in this way.And then I saw this quote:&quot;advertising is the price companies pay for being unoriginal.&quot;(Laughter)
时间： 3:37
zh-cn:因此，我必须自己来。我搬到旧金山，开了家小公司：Fuseproject。我想做的是重要的事。我不要只是做表皮，我要做完整的人类体验。早期的专案都很卑微，它们采用科技，放到产品里，让人得以新方式去使用，或找到新功能性。
en:So, I had to start on my own. So I moved to San Francisco,and I started a little company, fuseproject.And what I wanted to work on is important stuff.And I wanted to really not just work on the skins,but I wanted to work on the entire human experience.And so the first projects were sort of humble,but they took technology and maybe made it into thingsthat people would use in a new way,and maybe finding some new functionality.
时间： 4:07
zh-cn:这个表是我们为迷你库伯汽车公司开张时做的，它的显示是第一个可以水平、垂直调换。它让我能准确读取时间，不必弯曲手臂。其他的项目则是做转换，去满足人类的需求。这是为意大利公司做的小家具，装运时是平的，然后可折成咖啡桌、凳子、或什么的。还有一些实验性的：这是施华洛灯具，它会改变形状：圆形、环形、方形、8 字形，在小型计算机数字板上画一下，灯具就调整为你要的形状。
en:This is a watch we made for Mini Cooper, the car company,right when it launched,and it&#39;s the first watch that has a displaythat switches from horizontal to vertical.And that allows me to check my timer discretely, here,without bending my elbow.And other projects, which were really about transformation,about matching the human need.This is a little piece of furniture for an Italian manufacturer,and it ships completely flat,and then it folds into a coffee table and a stool and whatnot.And something a little bit more experimental:this is a light fixture for Swarovski,and what it does is, it changes shape.So, it goes from a circle, to a round, to a square, to a figure eight.And just by drawing on a little computer tablet,the entire light fixture adjusts to what shape you want.
时间： 4:59
zh-cn:最后，赫曼米勒的叶子灯。这是个介入很深的过程，它花了我们大约四年半。我一心追求创造独特的照明体验，新的照明体验。因此我们要同时设计灯和灯泡。我认为，这是很特别的设计机会。我追求的新体验是让使用者选择从一种温暖的，有点微弱的心情灯光，一路到光亮的工作灯。灯泡真的可以那样。使用者可以调整、混合这两种色调。原理很简单：只要碰触灯座，一边可以混合亮度，另一边则是光的色调。
en:And then finally, the leaf lamp for Herman Miller.This is a pretty involved process;it took us about four and a half years.But I really was looking for creating a unique experience of light,a new experience of light.So, we had to design both the light and the light bulb.And that&#39;s a unique opportunity, I would say, in design.And the new experience I was looking foris giving the choice for the user to go froma warm, sort of glowing kind of mood light,all the way to a bright work light.So, the light bulb actually does that.It allows the person to switch,and to mix these two colorations.And it&#39;s done in a very simple way:one just touches the base of the light,and on one side, you can mix the brightness,and on the other, the coloration of the light.
时间： 5:49
zh-cn:因此这些项目都有人道意义，我认为，身为设计师，我们该思考如何创造我们的作品和世界的新关系，不论是商业项目，或如我将要提的公益专案。因为大家都同意，身为设计师我们带来价值：商业价值、使用者价值，但我认为，是我们放进项目的价值最后创造出更大的价值。我们带来的价值可能是关于环境议题、永续性、低耗能。它们可能是功能或美观；可能是商业策略。但设计师却是黏胶把这些组合在一起。
en:So, all of these projects have a humanistic sense to them,and I think as designers we need to really thinkabout how we can create a different relationshipbetween our work and the world,whether it&#39;s for business,or, as I&#39;m going to show, on some civic-type projects.Because I think everybody agrees that as designers we bringvalue to business, value to the users also,but I think it&#39;s the values that we put into these projectsthat ultimately create the greater value.And the values we bringcan be about environmental issues,about sustainability, about lower power consumption.You know, they can be about function and beauty;they can be about business strategy.But designers are really the gluethat brings these things together.
时间： 6:45
zh-cn:&quot;颚骨耳机&quot; 是你们知道的项目，它使用人性化的科技。它能感觉你的皮肤，它知道你何时说话。因为知道你说话，它可以消除其他噪音，也就是环境噪音。
en:So Jawbone is a project that you&#39;re familiar with,and it has a humanistic technology.It feels your skin. It rests on your skin,and it knows when it is you&#39;re talking.And by knowing when it is you&#39;re talking,it gets rid of the other noises that it knows about,which is the environmental noises.
时间： 7:06
zh-cn:&quot;颚骨&quot; 的其他人性面是，我们决定要除去太科技的东西、及难懂的东西，并使它尽可能美观。就是说，你想：我们用心选择太阳眼镜、珠宝、或饰品等是很重要的，如果它不好看，就不该挂在脸上。这就是我们追求的。
en:But the other thing that is humanistic about Jawboneis that we really decided to take out all the techie stuff,and all the nerdy stuff out of it,and try to make it as beautiful as we can.I mean, think about it:the care we take in selecting sunglasses, or jewelry,or accessories is really important,so if it isn&#39;t beautiful, it really doesn&#39;t belong on your face.And this is what we&#39;re pursuing here.
时间： 7:37
zh-cn:但我们如何创造 &quot;颚骨&quot;，真的很特别。我要用左边的画面来说明。这是电路板，是放在内部使科技运作的东西。设计过程是这样的：有人改变电路板、在电路板放描迹器、改变IC的位置，而设计师在另一边工作。所以它不再是为科技做表皮。而真的是由内而外的设计。而房间的另一边设计师们忙着做修正、画草图、徒手画、放进计算机等，这就是我说的 &quot;设计驱导&quot;。你知道的，有些推力和拉力，但设计真的由内往外帮助定义整个体验。
en:But how we work on Jawbone is really unique.I want to point at something here, on the left.This is the board, this is one of the things that goes insidethat makes this technology work.But this is the design process:there&#39;s somebody changing the board,putting tracers on the board, changing the location of the ICs,as the designers on the other side are doing the work.So, it&#39;s not about slapping skins, anymore, on a technology.It&#39;s really about designing from the inside out.And then, on the other side of the room,the designers are making small adjustments,sketching, drawing by hand, putting it in the computer.And it&#39;s what I call being design driven.You know, there is some push and pull,but design is really helping definethe whole experience from the inside out.
时间： 8:26
zh-cn:当然设计永远做不完。这也是我们工作的独特之处，因为它永远做不完，你必得做其他的东西。包装、网站，你必需继续以各种方式接触使用者。但你如何留住人，如果它永远做不完呢？赫扎因拉赫曼 – &quot;颚骨&quot; 执行长很清楚需要有不同的结构。所谓不同结构是指我们是伙伴，有伙伴关系。我们可以继续工作，致力于这个专案，我们都分享成果。
en:And then, of course, design is never done.And this is — the other new way that is uniquein how we work is, because it&#39;s never done,you have to do all this other stuff.The packaging, and the website, and you need to continueto really touch the user, in many ways.But how do you retain somebody, when it&#39;s never done?And Hosain Rahman, the CEO of Aliph Jawbone,you know, really understands that you need a different structure.So, in a way, the different structure is that we&#39;re partners,it&#39;s a partnership. We can continue to workand dedicate ourselves to this project,and then we also share in the rewards.
时间： 9:11
zh-cn:这是另一个项目，另一个伙伴型的方法。这个叫Y水（“为什么喝水”），是由来自洛杉矶的家伙，叫 托马斯阿恩特，出生于澳洲，他来找我们，想要为小孩们创造健康饮水，或叫有机饮水，以替代高糖含量的汽水，他要小孩别喝汽水。因此，我们创造了这个瓶子，它在各个面向都是对称的。这使瓶子可以变成游戏。瓶子可互相结合，可创造不同形状、不同形态。(笑声)(掌声)谢谢。(掌声)
en:And here&#39;s another project, another partnership-type approach.This is called Y Water,and it&#39;s this guy from Los Angeles, Thomas Arndt,Austrian originally, who came to us,and all he wanted to do was to create a healthy drink,or an organic drink for his kids,to replace the high-sugar-content sodasthat he&#39;s trying to get them away from.So, we worked on this bottle,and it&#39;s completely symmetrical in every dimension.And this allows the bottle to turn into a game.The bottles connect together,and you can create different shapes, different forms.(Laughter)(Applause)Thank you.(Applause)
时间：10:00
zh-cn:当我们正在做这个时，瓶子颠倒的形状让我们想到Y，于是我们想到 why（为什么）、why not（为什么不呢）（Y 和 why 同音）可能是孩子们最重要的疑问词。于是我们把它命名为 &quot;Y水&quot;。这又是另个出自同一房间的例子：立体设计、构想、品牌，都有很深的结合。这个专案的另一件事是，我们带来知识产权，我们带来营销手法，我们带来这些，到当天结束时，我们带来这些价值，这些价值替公司创造一个灵魂。那个报偿是特别高的，如果你的设计工作是个有创意的付出，使其他人能有创意并做得更好。
en:And then while we were doing this,the shape of the bottle upside down reminded us of a Y,and then we thought, well these words, &quot;why&quot; and &quot;why not,&quot;are probably the most important words that kids ask.So we called it Y Water. And so this isanother place where it all comes together in the same room:the three-dimensional design, the ideas, the branding,it all becomes deeply connected.And then the other thing about this project is,we bring intellectual property,we bring a marketing approach,we bring all this stuff, but I think, at the end of the day,what we bring is these values,and these values create a soul for the companies we work with.And it&#39;s especially rewarding when your design workbecomes a creative endeavor,when others can be creative and do more with it.
时间：10:50
zh-cn:这是另一个专案，它发挥了那个理念。这是 &quot;每个学童有计算机&quot;，或叫 &quot;百元计算机&quot; 专案。这张照片令人惊奇。奈及利亚人把最贵重的东西带在头上。这个女孩顶着计算机去上学。对我，那真是意义不凡。当 尼古拉斯尼葛洛庞帝 –他谈过很多这个专案的事，他是 OLPC 的创始人 – 来找我们大约两年半前，他有很清晰的想法。他要推动教育，他要推动科技，这是他生命的支柱，也是 &quot;每个学童有计算机&quot; 使命的支柱。但他谈的第三支柱是设计。那时我并不设计计算机。我不很想做，因为有之前的经历。但他说得很有意思，设计可以使这些学童喜欢这个计算机。如何使它便宜、强固，此外他说，他要除去 Cap Lock 键 (大写键) –(笑声)– 还有 Num Lock 键 (数字键)。
en:Here&#39;s another project,which I think really emulates that.This is the One Laptop per Child, the $100 laptop.This picture is incredible.In Nigeria, people carry their most precious belongings on their heads.This girl is going to school with a laptop on her head.I mean, to me, it just means so much.But when Nicholas Negroponte —and he has spoken about this project a lot,he&#39;s the founder of OLPC — came to usabout two and a half years ago,there were some clear ideas.He wanted to bring education and he wanted to bring technology,and those are pillars of his life,but also pillars of the mission of One Laptop per Child.But the third pillar that he talked about was design.And at the time, I wasn&#39;t really working on computers.I didn&#39;t really want to, from the previous adventure.But what he said was really significant,is that design was going to be why the kidswere going to love this product,how we were going to make it low cost, robust.And plus, he said he was going to get rid of the Caps Lock key —(Laughter) —and the Num Lock key, too.
时间：12:10
zh-cn:我被说服了。我们把它设计得佷独特，看起来不同，就像学童用的，但不像玩具。还有那些重要科技的整合，你听过的，如：WiFi 天线让学童们上网；阳光下也能读的屏幕；橡胶做的键盘，它不受环境影响。
en:So, I was convinced. We designed it to be iconic,to look different. To look like it&#39;s for a kid, but not like a toy.And then the integration ofall these great technologies, which you&#39;ve heard about,the Wi-Fi antennas that allow the kids to connect;the screen, which you can read in sunlight;the keyboard, which is made out of rubber,and it&#39;s protected from the environment.
时间：12:36
zh-cn:这些重要科技之能加进去，全是靠一股热情、OLPC 推动者、及工程师们。他们向供货商争取，向制造商争取。他们就像动物一样，为了留住这些而争取。因为这样，而能达成这个项目，容许整个过程不致扼杀原本的想法。我认为这是很重要的事。
en:You know, all these great technologies really happenedbecause of the passion andthe OLPC people and the engineers.They fought the suppliers,they fought the manufacturers.I mean, they fought like animalsfor this to remain they way it is.And in a way, it is that will that makes projects like this one —allows the processfrom not destroying the original idea.And I think this is something really important.
时间：13:11
zh-cn:所以，看看这些照片 –早晨起来，你看到奈及利亚的学童、乌拉圭的学童有计算机了，还有蒙古的学童。我们不再用米黄色 –而用活泼的色彩；有趣。事实上，你可以看到，每个标志都有点不同。因为我们能够在制造过程中，各 20 色用在X和O，这是计算机的名字，将它们在制造现场混合，20 x 20：共有 400 种组合。看开发中国家学童用它们得到的启示是难能可贵的。
en:So, now you get these pictures —you get up in the morning, and you see the kids in Nigeriaand you see them in Uruguaywith their computers, and in Mongolia.And we went away from obviously the beige.I mean it&#39;s colorful, it&#39;s fun.In fact, you can see each logo is a little bit different.It&#39;s because we were ableto run, during the manufacturing process,20 colors for the X and the O,which is the name of the computer,and by mixing them on the manufacturing floor,you get 20 times 20: you get400 different options there.So, the lessons from seeing the kidsusing them in the developing world are incredible.
时间：13:57
zh-cn:但这是我侄子安东尼，在瑞士，有个下午我让他用计算机，要把它拿回来，还真难。(笑声)这是原型机。一个半月后，我回到瑞士，看到他在玩自己的计算机。(笑声)像是纸，纸和纸板。
en:But this is my nephew, Anthony, in Switzerland,and he had the laptop for an afternoon,and I had to take it back. It was hard.(Laughter)And it was a prototype. And a month and a half later,I come back to Switzerland,and there he is playing with his own version.(Laughter)Like paper, paper and cardboard.
时间：14:24
zh-cn:结束前将再谈一个项目。这有点像是成人游戏。(笑声)或许有人听过纽约安全套。它才刚发行，在情人节公开，二月十四日，大约十天前。纽约卫生局来找我们，他们要找分送安全套的方法免费分送 3,600 万个安全套给纽约市民。是一件大工程，我们设计配送器，这些就是配送器。它有亲切的外形。有点像是设计消防栓，它要方便好用：我们要知道它在哪、能做什么。我们也设计安全套本身。
en:So, I&#39;m going to finish with one last project,and this is a little bit more of adult play.(Laughter)Some of you might have heard about the New York City condom.It&#39;s actually just launched, actually launched on Valentine&#39;s Day,February 14, about 10 days ago.So, the Department of Health in New York came to us,and they needed a way to distribute36 million condoms for free to the citizens of New York.So a pretty big endeavor, and we worked on the dispensers.These are the dispensers. There&#39;s this friendly shape.It&#39;s a little bit like designing a fire hydrant,and it has to be easily serviceable:you have to know where it is and what it does.And we also designed the condoms themselves.
时间：15:25
zh-cn:发行时我刚好在纽约，我去看它们装设的地方。这是 Puerto Rican，一家小型杂货店，克里斯多街的一家酒吧、在撞球场。装在各处的游民保健中心。当然还有俱乐部和迪斯科舞厅。这是项目的公共广告。(音乐)(笑声)拿几个吧。(掌声)
en:And I was just in New York at the launch,and I went to see all these places where they&#39;re installed:this is at a Puerto Rican little mom-and-pop store;at a bar in Christopher Street; at a pool hall.I mean, they&#39;re being installed in homeless clinics — everywhere.Of course, clubs and discos, too.And here&#39;s the public service announcement for this project.(Music)(Laughter)Get some.(Applause)
时间：16:12
zh-cn:这是设计能创造的对话。我到了这些地方，人们都都去拿了。他们很兴奋。可以说破冰了，它打破了难为情，我认为这也是设计能做到的。因此，我想要...丢一些安全套给观众，但我不确定是否适宜。(笑声)啊，很好。我只有一些。(笑声)(掌声)还有一些，想要可以再找我。(笑声)如果有人问：你为何带安全套，你可以说，你喜欢它的设计。(笑声)
en:So, this is really where designis able to create a conversation.I was in these venues, and people were,you know, really into getting them. They were excited.It was breaking the ice,it was getting over a stigma,and I think that&#39;s also what design can do.So, I was going tothrow some condoms in the room and whatnot,but I&#39;m not sure it&#39;s the etiquette here.(Laughter)Yeah? All right, all right. I have only a few.(Laughter)(Applause)So, I have more, you can always ask me for some more later.(Laughter)And if anybody asks why you&#39;re carrying a condom,you can just say you like the design.(Laughter)
时间：17:09
zh-cn:最后，我以一个想法来做结束：如果我们一起创造价值，如果我们都记住我们工作的价值，我们能改变我们的工作。我们能改变这些价值，能改变公司，最后，也许我们能一起改变世界。谢谢。(掌声)
en:So, I&#39;ll finish with just one thought:if we all work together on creating value,but if we really keep in mind the values of the work that we do,I think we can change the work that we do.We can change these values, can change the companies we work with,and eventually, together, maybe we can change the world.So, thank you.(Applause)
