时间： 0:12
zh-cn:我永远也不会忘记我那在流亡中去世的祖母对我说过的话：“孩子，反抗卡扎菲，与他抗争。但你千万不要变成卡扎菲那样的革命者。”
en:I have never, ever forgotten the words of my grandmotherwho died in her exile:&quot;Son, resist Gaddafi. Fight him.But don&#39;t you ever turninto a Gaddafi-like revolutionary.&quot;
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:利比亚革命爆发至今已有两年，这次革命受到了突尼斯和埃及革命中全民积极参与的鼓舞。我同利比亚国内外的同胞们一起呼吁民众举行“愤怒日”游行并开始了反抗卡扎菲专制统治的革命。这是一场伟大的革命运动。利比亚的年轻男女站在革命的最前线要求专制政府下台，呼喊着自由、尊严、社会公正的口号。他们在同残暴的卡扎菲专政的抗争中表现出的勇气堪作典范。他们展现出来了高度的团结精神，从东面到西面再到南面，全国的人民都团结在一起。最终，经过六个月惨烈的战争，以50,000人死亡为代价，我们推翻了暴政统治，迎来了国家的自由。
en:Almost two years have passedsince the Libyan Revolution broke out,inspired by the waves of mass mobilizationin both the Tunisian and the Egyptian revolutions.I joined forces with many other Libyans inside and outside Libyato call for a day of rageand to initiate a revolution against the tyrannical regime of Gaddafi.And there it was, a great revolution.Young Libyan women and men were at the forefrontcalling for the fall of the regime,raising slogans of freedom, dignity, social justice.They have shown an exemplary braveryin confronting the brutal dictatorship of Gaddafi.They have shown a great sense of solidarityfrom the far east to the far west to the south.Eventually, after a period of six months of brutal warand a toll rate of almost 50,000 dead,we managed to liberate our country and to topple the tyrant.
时间： 1:49
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 1:56
zh-cn:但是，卡扎菲给我们留下沉重负担他留下专政、腐败的陋习，埋下了分裂的种子。卡扎菲长达40年的专政破坏了利比亚的基础设施，也破坏了利比亚的文化和道德观念。我深知卡扎菲独裁所造成的破坏，也深知我们面临的挑战，我同许多热血女性一起尝试重建利比亚的公民社会，我们呼吁在利比亚体现宽容与公正的精神以实现民主和民族间的和解。在卡扎菲倒台之时及之后有将近200个组织在班加西成立而在黎波里有将近300个组织成立。
en:However, Gaddafi left behind a heavy burden,a legacy of tyranny, corruption and seeds of diversions.For four decades Gaddafi&#39;s tyrannical regimedestroyed the infrastructure as well as the culture and the moral fabric of Libyan society.Aware of the devastation and the challenges,I was keen among many other women to rebuild the Libyan civil society,calling for an inclusive and just transitionto democracy and national reconciliation.Almost 200 organizations were established in Benghaziduring and immediately after the fall of Gaddafi —almost 300 in Tripoli.
时间： 2:47
zh-cn:在流亡33年后，我回到利比亚怀着不同寻常的热情，我着手组织研讨会，讨论能力建设以及人类发展中领导力培养的问题。我和一群了不起的女性一起，创办了利比亚女性和平平台。这是一场各行各业女性的运动、领导者的运动。我们为女性争取参与社会政治生活的权利，为我们女性争取平等参与民主与和平建设的权利。
en:After a period of 33 years in exile, I went back to Libya,and with unique enthusiasm,I started organizing workshopson capacity building, on human development of leadership skills.With an amazing group of women,I co-founded the Libyan Women&#39;s Platform for Peace,a movement of women, leaders, from different walks of life,to lobby for the sociopolitical empowerment of womenand to lobby for our rightfor equal participation in building democracy and peace.
时间： 3:25
zh-cn:在大选前，国内的形势非常糟糕，国内两级分化日益严重，这是因为我们的政治是自私的，是充满了控制和排斥的。我在利比亚女性和平平台提出了一项倡议，呼吁利比亚施行更具包容性的选举法,让利比亚的每一位公民，无论背景如何，都有选举和参选的权利，最重要的是，我呼吁在政党中应当规定无论在地区间还是在不同级别间，都由男性和女性轮流担当候选人，形成交叉式的候选人名单。最终，我们的倡议获得了采纳，也取得了成功。在利比亚52年来的第一次大选中，女性在国民议会中赢得了17.5%的席位。
en:I met a very difficult environment in the pre-elections,an environment which was increasingly polarized,an environment which was shaped by the selfish politics of dominance and exclusion.I led an initiative by the Libyan Women&#39;s Platform for Peaceto lobby for a more inclusive electoral law,a law that would give every citizen, no matter what your background,the right to vote and run,and most importantly to stipulate on political partiesthe alternation of male and female candidatesvertically and horizontally in their lists,creating the zipper list.Eventually, our initiative was adopted and successful.Women won 17.5 percent of the National Congressin the first elections ever in 52 years.
时间： 4:32
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 4:39
zh-cn:然而，一点一点地，大选和革命所带来的欢欣喜悦在我们国家中消失了，因为每天早上起床，我们都会看到有关暴力行径的新闻。一天我们看到亵渎古代清真寺和苏非圣徒墓的新闻。另一天我们看到谋杀美国大使和袭击美国领事馆的新闻。又一天我们看到暗杀军官的新闻。还有就是，每天我们都处于国民军的统治之下，都要忍受他们不断侵犯囚犯的人权，忍受他们对法治的蔑视。
en:However, bit by bit, the euphoria of the elections,and of the revolution as a whole,was fading out —for every day we were waking up to the news of violence.One day we wake up to the newsof the desecration of ancient mosques and Sufi tombs.On another day we wake up to the newsof the murder of the American ambassador and the attack on the consulate.On another day we wake up to the newsof the assassination of army officers.And every day, every day we wake up with the rule of the militiasand their continuous violations of human rights of prisonersand their disrespect of the rule of law.
时间： 5:27
zh-cn:我们的社会深受武装革命的心态影响，越来越分化，也背弃了我们起初秉持的理想和原则，也就是——自由、尊严和社会公正。偏狭、排斥和报复成了革命后我们社会的标志。我今天站在这里，不想用交叉式候选人名单和大选的成功来鼓舞大家。我在这里是要坦白，我们在推翻卡扎菲政府时所作出的决定是错误的，我们没有认清事情的关键。因为选举并没有为利比亚带来和平与稳定。我们倡导的交叉式候选人名单为利比亚带来和平，带来民族间的和解了吗？不，并没有。那么，关键的问题到底是什么呢？为什么我们的社会还是分化严重？为什么我们的政治在男女都参与的情况下，还是充满了控制和排斥呢？
en:Our society, shaped by a revolutionary mindset,became more polarizedand has driven away from the ideals and the principles —freedom, dignity, social justice —that we first held.Intolerance, exclusion and revengebecame the icons of the [aftermath] of the revolution.I am here today not at all to inspire youwith our success story of the zipper list and the elections.I&#39;m rather here today to confessthat we as a nation took the wrong choice, made the wrong decision.We did not prioritize right.For elections did not bring peace and stability and security in Libya.Did the zipper list and the alternation between female and male candidatesbring peace and national reconciliation?No, it didn&#39;t.What is it, then?Why does our society continue to be polarized and dominatedwith selfish politics of dominance and exclusion, by both men and women?
时间： 6:44
zh-cn:也许，我们缺的不只是女性，而是女性的价值观——同情、怜悯和包容。我们的社会需要全国性的对话，建立起全国性的共识，这对我们的社会来说比选举更为重要，因为选举只是加重了分化与分裂。我们的社会需要的是女性特质的代表，这对我们的社会来说比女性在数量上的代表更为重要。
en:Maybe what was missing was not the women only,but the feminine values of compassion, mercy and inclusion.Our society needs national dialogue and consensus-buildingmore than it needed the elections,which only reinforced polarization and division.Our society needs the qualitative representation of the femininemore than it needs the numerical, quantitative representation of the feminine.
时间： 7:18
zh-cn:我们需要停止愤怒的行径，停止号召“愤怒日”游行。我们需要开始表现出同情心和怜悯心。我们需要女性化的话语，要尊崇并且贯彻同情、合作和包容，要抛开报复，抛开竞争，抛开偏狭。这才是饱受战乱的利比亚要走向和平所迫切需要的努力目标。
en:We need to stop acting as agents of rage and calling for days of rage.We need to start acting as agents of compassion and mercy.We need to develop a feminine discoursethat not only honors but also implementsmercy instead of revenge, collaboration instead of competition,inclusion instead of exclusion.These are the ideals that a war-torn Libyaneeds desperately in order to achieve peace.
时间： 7:56
zh-cn:因为和平有独到的炼造方式，需要女性和男性观念的密切联系和不断交替。这才是真正的交叉。而且我们需要在社会政治生活运作前先建立起这种男女交叉的存在。
en:For peace has an alchemy,and this alchemy is about the intertwining, the alternationbetween the feminine and masculine perspectives.That&#39;s the real zipper.And we need to establish that existentiallybefore we do so sociopolitically.
时间： 8:17
zh-cn:《可兰经》的一段经文里说，“Salam”——也就是和平——“来自我们最仁慈的主Raheem。”而在所有亚伯拉罕诸教的传统中都闻名的词“raheem”在阿拉伯语中与“rahem”同根，“rahem”则象征着充满母性的女性包容着所有人类，男人和女人以及所有部落、所有民族的人都是从她发源而来的。就像子宫完全包裹着在其内生长的胚胎一样，满怀同情之心的神圣母体滋养着世间万物。因此，我们所受的教导告诉我们：“我的怜悯之心包容万物。”因此，我们所受的教导告诉我们：“我的怜悯之心战胜我的愤怒。”
en:According to a Quranic verse&quot;Salam&quot; — peace — &quot;is the word of the all-merciful God, raheem.&quot;In turn, the word &quot;raheem,&quot; which is known in all Abrahamic traditions,has the same root in Arabic as the word &quot;rahem&quot; — womb —symbolizing the maternal feminine encompassing all humanityfrom which the male and the female,from which all tribes, all peoples, have emanated from.And so just as the womb entirely envelopes the embryo, which grows within it,the divine matrix of compassion nourishes the entire existence.Thus we are told that &quot;My mercy encompasses all things.&quot;Thus we are told that &quot;My mercy takes precedence over my anger.&quot;
时间： 9:18
zh-cn:愿我们都被赐予怜悯之心。（掌声）
en:May we all be granted a grace of mercy.(Applause)
时间： 9:27
zh-cn:谢谢你们。
en:Thank you.
时间： 9:29
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
