时间： 0:12
zh-cn:1990 年 11 月 5 日，一位名叫埃尔·塞伊德·诺塞尔的男子走入曼哈顿的一间宾馆刺杀了拉比梅厄‧卡赫纳，犹太防卫联盟的首领。诺塞尔一开始并未被指认参与谋杀，但当他因小事入狱服刑期间，他和一些人开始计划袭击纽约市的一些地标，包括隧道，犹太教会堂和联合国总部。谢天谢地，这些计划被美国联邦调查局的线人挫败了。不幸的是，1993 年世贸中心的那场爆炸袭击却发生了。诺塞尔最终被指控参与这场犯罪谋划。埃尔·塞伊德·诺塞尔是我的父亲。
en:On November 5th, 1990,a man named El-Sayyid Nosair walkedinto a hotel in Manhattanand assassinated Rabbi Meir Kahane,the leader of the Jewish Defense League.Nosair was initially found not guilty of the murder,but while serving time on lesser charges,he and other men began planning attackson a dozen New York City landmarks,including tunnels, synagoguesand the United Nations headquarters.Thankfully, those plans were foiledby an FBI informant.Sadly, the 1993 bombingof the World Trade Center was not.Nosair would eventually be convictedfor his involvement in the plot.El-Sayyid Nosair is my father.
时间： 1:02
zh-cn:我 1983 年出生在宾夕法尼亚州的匹兹堡，我的父亲是一位埃及裔工程师，我有个爱我的美国母亲，她是一名小学老师，他们尽最大的努力为给我创造出欢乐的童年。直到我 7 岁的时候家庭氛围开始出现了变化。我的父亲让我接触伊斯兰的一支很少人见过，包括大部分的穆斯林，都没见过的一个派别。我的人生经验告诉我人们与彼此相处，很快就意识到，很大程度上人们对生活有着相同的追求。然而，所有宗教，所有群体，你总能看到一小部分人对他们的信仰太过狂热以至于认为他们应该用各种方法让其他人和他们过同样的生活。
en:I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvaniain 1983 to him, an Egyptian engineer,and a loving American motherand grade school teacher,who together tried their bestto create a happy childhood for me.It wasn&#39;t until I was seven years oldthat our family dynamic started to change.My father exposed me to a side of Islamthat few people, including the majority of Muslims,get to see.It&#39;s been my experience that when peopletake the time to interact with one another,it doesn&#39;t take long to realize that for the most part,we all want the same things out of life.However, in every religion, in every population,you&#39;ll find a small percentage of peoplewho hold so fervently to their beliefsthat they feel they must use any means necessaryto make others live as they do.
时间： 1:54
zh-cn:在他被捕前的几个月，他和我坐着聊天解释到在过去的几个周末，他和他的一些朋友在长岛（美国纽约州东南部岛屿）进行目标射击训练。他让我第二天一早和他一起去。我们来到凯佛顿射击场，我们并不知道自己已经被联邦调查局监视了。轮到我射击的时候，我的父亲帮我扶住肩膀上的来福枪，并教导我如何瞄准30 码处的目标。那天，我射出的最后一颗子弹打中了目标顶上的橙色亮光，所有人都惊呆了，尤其是我，整个目标版燃烧了。我的叔叔转向旁边的人，用阿拉伯语说到，“Ibn abuh”——虎父无犬子。他们当场开怀大笑起来，几年后我才了解他们大笑的原因，他们以为我和我的父亲有着同样的摧毁能力。这群男人最终被指控将满载 1500 磅重的炸弹的厢式货车停在世界贸易中心北塔的地下停车场，爆炸造成 6 人死亡，同时致使超过 1000 人受伤。这些是我曾经敬仰的人。这些是我曾经称呼其为 ammu，意为叔叔的人。
en:A few months prior to his arrest,he sat me down and explained thatfor the past few weekends, he and some friendshad been going to a shooting range on Long Islandfor target practice.He told me I&#39;d be going with him the next morning.We arrived at Calverton Shooting Range,which unbeknownst to our group was being watchedby the FBI.When it was my turn to shoot,my father helped me hold the rifle to my shoulderand explained how to aim at the targetabout 30 yards off.That day, the last bullet I shothit the small orange light that sat on top of the targetand to everyone&#39;s surprise, especially mine,the entire target burst into flames.My uncle turned to the other men,and in Arabic said, &quot;Ibn abuh.&quot;Like father, like son.They all seemed to get a reallybig laugh out of that comment,but it wasn&#39;t until a few years laterthat I fully understood whatthey thought was so funny.They thought they saw in me the same destructionmy father was capable of.Those men would eventually be convictedof placing a van filled with1,500 pounds of explosivesinto the sub-level parking lot of theWorld Trade Center&#39;s North Tower,causing an explosion that killed six peopleand injured over 1,000 others.These were the men I looked up to.These were the men I calledammu, which means uncle.
时间： 3:23
zh-cn:当我 19 岁的时候，我已经搬超过 20 次家了，童年所经历的不稳定并未给我结交朋友的机会。每当我感到和附近人相熟时，就是我要收拾行囊去下一个地方的时候。作为永远的班级新生，我常是同学们欺负的对象。为了不被同班同学欺负，我将自己的身份保密，但结果是，作为安静又胖乎乎的新同学很轻易就成为被欺负的对象。所以更多的时候，我待在家里看书看电视或者是打电动。正因为这样，我的社交能力有所缺失，简单地说，成长在固执的家庭，我没有准备好应对现实世界。我被教育成用武断的方式，依据人们的脸或宗教，来评断他人。
en:By the time I turned 19,I had already moved 20 times in my life,and that instability during my childhooddidn&#39;t really provide an opportunityto make many friends.Each time I would begin to feelcomfortable around someone,it was time to pack up and move to the next town.Being the perpetual new face in class,I was frequently the target of bullies.I kept my identity a secret from my classmatesto avoid being targeted,but as it turns out, being thequiet, chubby new kid in classwas more than enough ammunition.So for the most part, I spent my time at homereading books and watching TVor playing video games.For those reasons, my social skills were lacking,to say the least,and growing up in a bigoted household,I wasn&#39;t prepared for the real world.I&#39;d been raised to judge peoplebased on arbitrary measurements,like a person&#39;s race or religion.
时间： 4:17
zh-cn:什么让我开了眼界呢？某次经历挑战了我思考的方式发生于 2000 年美国总统竞选期间。在预科期间，我参与了在费城举办的全国青年大会。我这组的话题是关于青少年暴力，作为倍受欺负的受害者，这个话题我很感兴趣。组员都有着不同的生活轨迹。大会临近结束的某天，我发现我的某个朋友是犹太人。我也是过了几天才知晓这件事情，我认识到，我们之间并没有与生俱来的仇恨。我从未有过犹太朋友，坦白地说，我为此感到骄傲，能够跨越我人生绝大部分时间认为是不可能逾越的障碍。另一个转折点是，某年暑假，我在布希花园这个主题乐园打工。我见识到有着不同信仰，来自不同文化的人们，这样的经验对我的人格发展是至关重要的。因为在过去的日子，我接收到的教育是，同性恋是罪恶的，据此推断，所有的同性恋者都有着消极的影响。在我打暑期工的时间里，我有机会和同性恋演员一起合作，我很快发现，很多同性恋者是我所见过最善良，最自由开放尊重他人的人。在儿童时期被欺负的经历教给我要对他人的遭遇感到同情和怜悯，对我来说，我会善待那些对我好的人。因为这样的感受，我能够用真实生活和交际经历来抵挡从孩童时期就被灌输的成见。我不知道作为同性恋者的感受，但我熟知那种被无法掌控的事物所评断的感受。
en:So what opened my eyes?One of my first experiencesthat challenged this way of thinkingwas during the 2000 presidential elections.Through a college prep program,I was able to take partin the National Youth Convention in Philadelphia.My particular group&#39;s focus was on youth violence,and having been the victimof bullying for most of my life,this was a subject in whichI felt particularly passionate.The members of our group camefrom many different walks of life.One day toward the end of the convention,I found out that one of the kids I had befriendedwas Jewish.Now, it had taken several daysfor this detail to come to light,and I realized that there was no natural animositybetween the two of us.I had never had a Jewish friend before,and frankly I felt a sense of pridein having been able to overcome a barrierthat for most of my life I had been led to believewas insurmountable.Another major turning point came whenI found a summer job at Busch Gardens,an amusement park.There, I was exposed to peoplefrom all sorts of faiths and cultures,and that experience proved to be fundamentalto the development of my character.Most of my life, I&#39;d been taughtthat homosexuality was a sin, and by extension,that all gay people were a negative influence.As chance would have it, I had the opportunityto work with some of the gay performersat a show there,and soon found that many were the kindest,least judgmental people I had ever met.Being bullied as a kidcreated a sense of empathy in metoward the suffering of others,and it comes very unnaturally to meto treat people who are kindin any other way than howI would want to be treated.Because of that feeling, I was ableto contrast the stereotypes I&#39;d been taught as a childwith real life experience and interaction.I don&#39;t know what it&#39;s like to be gay,but I&#39;m well acquainted with being judgedfor something that&#39;s beyond my control.
时间： 6:24
zh-cn:接着，有个“每日秀”的节目出现了。每一晚，乔恩·斯图尔特催促我诚实面对自己的偏见，帮助我认识到一个人的种族，信仰和性取向对这个人的人格没有任何关系。某种程度上说，每当我迫切需要一个父亲的时候，他就在那里。鼓舞人心之事往往来自你无法预知的地方，事实上，一个犹太裔喜剧明星积极地影响我的世界观，比我那极端的亲生父亲多得多。
en:Then there was &quot;The Daily Show.&quot;On a nightly basis, Jon Stewart forced meto be intellectually honest withmyself about my own bigotryand helped me to realize that a person&#39;s race,religion or sexual orientationhad nothing to do with the quality of one&#39;s character.He was in many ways a father figure to mewhen I was in desperate need of one.Inspiration can often comefrom an unexpected place,and the fact that a Jewish comedian had done moreto positively influence my worldviewthan my own extremist fatheris not lost on me.
时间： 7:04
zh-cn:某天，我和母亲谈到我的世界观正在改变，她对我说，我将在生命里一直带着尊重的心。她用疲倦的眼神看着我，她受够了被教条主义侵占的人生，说到：“我不愿憎恨他人了。”瞬间，我意识到，在内心里承受憎恨需要多么巨大的负能量。
en:One day, I had a conversation with my motherabout how my worldview was starting to change,and she said something to methat I will hold dear to my heartfor as long as I live.She looked at me with the weary eyesof someone who had experiencedenough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said,&quot;I&#39;m tired of hating people.&quot;In that instant, I realized how much negative energyit takes to hold that hatred inside of you.
时间： 7:34
zh-cn:扎克‧伊博黑姆不是我的本名。当我的家人决定和我父亲断绝关系时我改了这个名字以开始新的生活。那么，我为什么要出现在公众视线前将自己置于可能的危险境地呢？嗯，这很容易解释。我这样做是希望也许某人某天当他决定使用武力反抗社会的时候可能会听到我的故事，并意识到有比动武更好的方法，尽管我曾被灌输这样的暴力思维，偏狭的意识，我并没有为其所动。而是选择通过自己的经验来抵抗恐怖主义，来反对偏见。我为了那些恐怖袭击的受害者以及他们的亲人而这样做，为了那些被恐怖主义活动所造成的生命的苦痛和损失而这样做。为了那些遭受恐怖袭击的受害者，我站出来反对这些毫无意义的袭击行动，谴责我父亲的行为。就是这样简单的原因，我站在这里证明暴力不是宗教或种族与生俱来的，儿子并不需要走上和父亲相同的道路。我不是我的父亲。
en:Zak Ebrahim is not my real name.I changed it when my family decidedto end our connection with my fatherand start a new life.So why would I out myselfand potentially put myself in danger?Well, that&#39;s simple.I do it in the hopes that perhaps someone somedaywho is compelled to use violencemay hear my story and realizethat there is a better way,that although I had been subjectedto this violent, intolerant ideology,that I did not become fanaticized.Instead, I choose to use my experienceto fight back against terrorism,against the bigotry.I do it for the victims of terrorismand their loved ones,for the terrible pain and lossthat terrorism has forced upon their lives.For the victims of terrorism, I will speak outagainst these senseless actsand condemn my father&#39;s actions.And with that simple fact, I stand here as proofthat violence isn&#39;t inherent in one&#39;s religion or race,and the son does not have to followthe ways of his father.I am not my father.
时间： 8:53
zh-cn:谢谢。（掌声）
en:Thank you. (Applause)
时间： 8:56
zh-cn:谢谢各位。（掌声）
en:Thank you, everybody. (Applause)
时间： 8:59
zh-cn:谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:Thank you all. (Applause)
时间： 9:02
zh-cn:非常感谢。（掌声）
en:Thanks a lot. (Applause)
