时间： 0:11
zh-cn:最近，我们时常听到社交媒体如何支持了抗议活动，那是真的。但是经过十多年来我对多种社会活动的研究和参与，我认识到科技辅助社会运动的方式也可能反过来起到削弱的作用。这并非不可避免，但是要克服这个问题需要深入了解长久以来到底什么是取得成功的关键因素。这些经验适用于不同的领域。
en:So recently, we heard a lot abouthow social media helps empower protest,and that&#39;s true,but after more than a decadeof studying and participatingin multiple social movements,I&#39;ve come to realizethat the way technologyempowers social movementscan also paradoxically help weaken them.This is not inevitable,but overcoming it requires diving deepinto what makes success possibleover the long term.And the lessons apply in multiple domains.
时间： 0:42
zh-cn:举个例子：2013年7月土耳其盖奇公园示威活动，我曾回到过现场研究这个事件。推特是组织这个抗议活动的关键。推特遍布整个公园，还有催泪弹。不完全是高科技。不过土耳其的人民早已习惯了推特的力量，因为在一年前一个很不幸的事件中，军队飞机轰炸并杀死了靠近边界地区的34个库尔德走私者，土耳其媒体完全封锁了这个消息。编辑们坐在新闻办公室里，等待着政府的指令。一位感到沮丧的记者再也无法忍受了。他自掏腰包买了飞机票，去了事发的村子。他看到了这样一番景象：一排排的棺木从山坡上往下移动，亲属们在悲泣。他后来告诉我，他感到非常悲痛，不知如何是好，于是他拿出手机，就像我们所有人一样，拍了照片，用推特传出去。不出所料，这幅照片如同病毒一般打破封锁，逼得大众传播开始报道。
en:Now, take Turkey&#39;sGezi Park protests, July 2013,which I went back to study in the field.Twitter was key to its organizing.It was everywhere in the park —well, along with a lot of tear gas.It wasn&#39;t all high tech.But the people in Turkey had alreadygotten used to the power of Twitterbecause of an unfortunate incidentabout a year beforewhen military jets had bombed and killed34 Kurdish smugglersnear the border region,and Turkish media completelycensored this news.Editors sat in their newsroomsand waited for the governmentto tell them what to do.One frustrated journalistcould not take this anymore.He purchased his own plane ticket,and went to the villagewhere this had occurred.And he was confronted by this scene:a line of coffins coming down a hill,relatives wailing.He later he told mehow overwhelmed he felt,and didn&#39;t know what to do,so he took out his phone,like any one of us might,and snapped that pictureand tweeted it out.And voila, that picture went viraland broke the censorshipand forced mass media to cover it.
时间： 1:56
zh-cn:一年后，当土耳其的盖奇示威发生时，开始是因为一个公园被夷为平地，但演变成了反独裁示威。不出所料，媒体封锁了这个消息，但有时实在太离谱。当事件演变到非常激烈的程度时，CNN国际频道在伊斯坦堡进行了现场直播，CNN土耳其频道同时播放的却是企鹅的纪录片。我很喜欢企鹅记录片，但是那不该是那天的头条新闻。一位愤怒的观众将两个电视荧幕放在一起，照了一张相片。那张相片也开始疯狂传播，从此，大家就称土耳其媒体为企鹅媒体。（笑声）
en:So when, a year later,Turkey&#39;s Gezi protests happened,it started as a protestabout a park being razed,but became an anti-authoritarian protest.It wasn&#39;t surprisingthat media also censored it,but it got a little ridiculous at times.When things were so intense,when CNN Internationalwas broadcasting live from Istanbul,CNN Turkey instead was broadcastinga documentary on penguins.Now, I love penguin documentaries,but that wasn&#39;t the news of the day.An angry viewer put his two screenstogether and snapped that picture,and that one too went viral,and since then, people call Turkish mediathe penguin media. (Laughter)
时间： 2:39
zh-cn:但是这次，大家知道怎么做了。他们带上手机去寻找真正的新闻。或者他们干脆去公园照相、参与示威，在社会媒体上分享信息。数字化通讯系统已经应用到了各个领域，譬如食物、捐款。所有事件组织都借助了新技术。
en:But this time, people knew what to do.They just took out their phonesand looked for actual news.Better, they knew to go to the parkand take pictures and participateand share it more on social media.Digital connectivity was usedfor everything from food to donations.Everything was organized partiallywith the help of these new technologies.
时间： 3:02
zh-cn:用互联网来动员、宣传抗议活动实际上要追溯到很久以前。大家记得萨帕塔事件吗？那是在墨西哥南部的恰阿巴斯区的农民起义。由一个带着面具，抽着烟斗，颇具魅力的名为马克斯的副指挥官所领导。那应该是第一个由于互联网而得到全球关注的事件。或想想99年的西雅图事件，跨国基层民众协力让全球关注到了那时仍默默无名的世界贸易组织。他们也是运用了这种数字科技来协助组织这个活动。最近，一个接一个的事件震撼了一个又一个国家：巴林到突尼斯、埃及的阿拉伯起义等；西班牙、意大利、希腊等国的抗议者；盖奇公园的示威人群；台湾；乌克兰的亲欧盟示威运动；还有香港。还有最近的，例如#把我们的女孩带回来 的口号（14年4月尼日利亚寄宿学校若干女生被绑架）如今，网络短消息网络能够发动全球觉醒活动。脸书网页可以成为一个大规模动员的枢纽。多么惊人啊！
en:And using Internet to mobilizeand publicize protestsactually goes back a long way.Remember the Zapatistas,the peasant uprisingin the southern Chiapas region of Mexicoled by the masked, pipe-smoking,charismatic Subcomandante Marcos?That was probably the first movementthat got global attentionthanks to the Internet.Or consider Seattle &#39;99,when a multinational grassroots effortbrought global attentionto what was then an obscure organization,the World Trade Organization,by also utilizing these digitaltechnologies to help them organize.And more recently, movement after movementhas shaken country after country:the Arab uprisings from Bahrainto Tunisia to Egypt and more;indignados in Spain, Italy, Greece;the Gezi Park protests;Taiwan; Euromaidan in Ukraine; Hong Kong.And think of more recent initiatives,like the #BringBackOurGirls hashtags.Nowadays, a network of tweetscan unleash a global awareness campaign.A Facebook page can become the hubof a massive mobilization.Amazing.
时间： 4:19
zh-cn:但想想我刚提到的那些例子。他们所能取得的成就和效果，与他们所激发的民众数目和能量并不成比例。他们合法激起的希望却并没有得到他们想要的结果。这就带出了一个问题：当数字科技让一些活动变得更容易发起，为什么却不容易得到成功的结果？将数字平台用在行动主义和政治活动的同时，我们是不是忽略了传统活动中那些有利的方面？我是这样认为的。我相信常规的方法是：很容易发动并不总是意味着很容易实现目标。
en:But think of the moments I just mentioned.The achievements they wereable to have, their outcomes,are not really proportionalto the size and energy they inspired.The hopes they rightfully raisedare not really matchedby what they were able to haveas a result in the end.And this raises a question:As digital technology makes thingseasier for movements,why haven&#39;t successful outcomesbecome more likely as well?In embracing digital platformsfor activism and politics,are we overlooking some of the benefitsof doing things the hard way?Now, I believe so.I believe that the rule of thumb is:Easier to mobilize does not always meaneasier to achieve gains.
时间： 5:11
zh-cn:我再解释一下，科技的确推动了某些领域的发展。科技力量不容小视。在土耳其，我见到4个年轻的大学生组织了一个全国市民新闻网络，叫做140Journos，它成为了全国非监管新闻的中心平台。在埃及，我也见到了4个年轻人在2011年解放广场附近大范围冲突事件中，用数字化通讯系统为10所战地医院组织了志愿和后勤服务，那是非常庞大的系统。我问这个活动的发起者——”解放支援“组织，从产生想法到付诸行动究竟花了多长时间。”5分钟，“他说。只有5分钟。而他对后勤事务一无所知。再想想2011年震撼全世界的占领华尔街运动。仅仅从《广告克星》杂志的一封电子邮件开始，转发到了9万订阅者的手中。邮件发出去的2个月之后，全美国就发起了600起占领和抗议事件。在祖科蒂公园占领事件之后还不到1个月，82个国家、950个城市开展了全球性抗议活动。这是有史以来最大一次全球性示威活动。
en:Now, to be clear,technology does empower in multiple ways.It&#39;s very powerful.In Turkey, I watchedfour young college studentsorganize a countrywide citizen journalismnetwork called 140Journosthat became the central hubfor uncensored news in the country.In Egypt, I saw another four young peopleuse digital connectivityto organize the supplies and logisticsfor 10 field hospitals,very large operations,during massive clashesnear Tahrir Square in 2011.And I asked the founderof this effort, called Tahrir Supplies,how long it took him to go from whenhe had the idea to when he got started.&quot;Five minutes,&quot; he said. Five minutes.And he had no trainingor background in logistics.Or think of the Occupy movementwhich rocked the world in 2011.It started with a single emailfrom a magazine, Adbusters,to 90,000 subscribers in its list.About two months after that first email,there were in the United States600 ongoing occupations and protests.Less than one month after the firstphysical occupation in Zuccotti Park,a global protest was heldin about 82 countries, 950 cities.It was one of the largestglobal protests ever organized.
时间： 6:38
zh-cn:与1955年阿拉巴马州发生的民权运动相比，即种族隔离公交系统，呼吁大众拒绝坐公交。这个运动酝酿了很多年，在罗莎·帕克斯被捕之后才被认为是时候该付诸行动。但是要怎么传播信息呢——明天就要开始进行抵制了——那时候并没有脸书、短信、推特之类的媒介？于是他们需要影印5万2千份传单，这一切都要夜深人静之后偷偷潜入一所大学的复印室暗中进行。然后他们借助全城联系密切的68个非洲裔美国人组织来亲手发放这些传单。后勤工作非常难组织，因为这些都是穷人。毕竟他们都去上班赚钱，抵制还是不抵制的确是个难题，所以大量的拼车活动组织起来了，还是通过集会。没有短信，没有推特，没有脸书。他们总是要碰面保证拼车顺利进行。
en:Now, compare that to what the Civil RightsMovement had to do in 1955 Alabamato protest the racially segregatedbus system, which they wanted to boycott.They&#39;d been preparing for many yearsand decided it was timeto swing into actionafter Rosa Parks was arrested.But how do you get the word out —tomorrow we&#39;re going tostart the boycott —when you don&#39;t have Facebook,texting, Twitter, none of that?So they had to mimeograph 52,000 leafletsby sneaking into a universityduplicating roomand working all night, secretly.They then used the 68African-American organizationsthat criss-crossed the cityto distribute those leaflets by hand.And the logistical tasks were daunting,because these were poor people.They had to get to work, boycott or no,so a massive carpool was organized,again by meeting.No texting, no Twitter, no Facebook.They had to meet almost all the timeto keep this carpool going.
时间： 7:43
zh-cn:而如今，这一切都变得很简单了。我们可以建立一个数据库，哪些人有空车，哪些人需要搭车，用数据库进行协调，用短信沟通。我们不再需要那样集会。不过再想想：美国的民权运动进入了具有政治危险性的雷区，面临镇压，冲破镇压，赢得了重大政策让步，组织和创新的每一步都充满了危险。对比而言，占领运动掀起了不平等的全球话题3年之后，支持这种不平等的政策丝毫没有改变。欧洲也发生了许多反紧缩抗议活动，不过并没有取得任何成效。在充分利用这些技术的同时，我们是不是忽略了缓慢长期的活动中有利的一面呢？为了搞清楚这一点，盖奇抗议活动一年后我回到了土耳其，采访了一些人，包括活动家、政治家、统治集团、反对集团、各种运动。我发现盖奇活动的抗议者感到很绝望。他们很沮丧，他们所达到的效果离期望相差太远。这也呼应了我在全球接触的其他抗议者的声音。我开始认识到一部分问题在于当今的抗议活动有点像借助60个西藏夏尔巴人来攀登珠穆朗玛峰，而网络就是我们的夏尔巴人。我们在做的是找到最快的路径，却没有利用传统方式的好处。因为你们想想看，以前组织的所有后勤工作都很繁琐、单调，并不只是为了完成工作，这些工作创造了一种组织，能够让大家万众一心，一起做出艰难的决定，达成一致、有所创新，甚至更重要的是，在求同存异中前行。当你们看到1963年3月在华盛顿的这些人群时，看着这张照片，马丁路德金在人群中进行了他的著名演讲，1963年的“我有一个梦想”，看到的不只是浩荡的游行人群，听到的不只是伟大的一篇演讲，大家也看到了聚集人群所需的长期艰辛工作。如果你掌握着实权，你会认识到，你必须考虑游行所显示的巨大能量，并不只是游行，而是游行所传递的实实在在的能量。对比来看，占领华尔街的全球抗议活动在2周内就组织好了可以看到很多不满的情绪，但并不一定能看到长远效果。关键问题在于，民权运动在战术上进行了创新，从抵制、到餐厅静坐抗议、罢工纠察员、游行、再到自由乘坐公交。如今的运动缺乏有效的组织基础，规模扩张得太快，无法预见到可能面临的挑战。有点类似于小型创业公司发展过快，却还不知道下一步要如何发展，而且也很少转换战略，因为他们没有深厚的实力来平和度过这段过渡期。
en:Today, it would be so much easier.We could create a database,available rides and what rides you need,have the database coordinate,and use texting.We wouldn&#39;t have to meet all that much.But again, consider this:the Civil Rights Movementin the United Statesnavigated a minefieldof political dangers,faced repression and overcame,won major policy concessions,navigated and innovated through risks.In contrast, three yearsafter Occupy sparkedthat global conversation about inequality,the policies that fueled itare still in place.Europe was also rockedby anti-austerity protests,but the continentdidn&#39;t shift its direction.In embracing these technologies,are we overlooking some of the benefitsof slow and sustained?To understand this,I went back to Turkeyabout a year after the Gezi protestsand I interviewed a range of people,from activists to politicians,from both the ruling partyand the opposition party and movements.I found that the Gezi protesterswere despairing.They were frustrated,and they had achieved much lessthan what they had hoped for.This echoed what I&#39;d been hearingaround the worldfrom many other protestersthat I&#39;m in touch with.And I&#39;ve come to realizethat part of the problemis that today&#39;s protests have becomea bit like climbing Mt. Everestwith the help of 60 Sherpas,and the Internet is our Sherpa.What we&#39;re doing is taking the fast routesand not replacing the benefitsof the slower work.Because, you see,the kind of work that went into organizingall those daunting,tedious logistical tasksdid not just take care of those tasks,they also created the kind of organizationthat could think together collectivelyand make hard decisions together,create consensus and innovate,and maybe even more crucially,keep going together through differences.So when you see thisMarch on Washington in 1963,when you look at that picture,where this is the march whereMartin Luther King gave his famous&quot;I have a dream&quot; speech, 1963,you don&#39;t just see a marchand you don&#39;t just hear a powerful speech,you also see the painstaking,long-term work that can put on that march.And if you&#39;re in power,you realize you have to takethe capacity signaled by that march,not just the march, but the capacitysignaled by that march, seriously.In contrast, when you lookat Occupy&#39;s global marchesthat were organized in two weeks,you see a lot of discontent,but you don&#39;t necessarily see teeth thatcan bite over the long term.And crucially, the Civil Rights Movementinnovated tacticallyfrom boycotts to lunch counter sit-insto pickets to marches to freedom rides.Today&#39;s movements scale up very quicklywithout the organizational basethat can see them through the challenges.They feel a little like startupsthat got very bigwithout knowing what to do next,and they rarely manage to shift tacticallybecause they don&#39;t havethe depth of capacityto weather such transitions.
时间：11:13
zh-cn:我想表明：成功的秘诀不在于蜡纸油印。而是同心协力、同舟共济的能力，这种能力只有通过长期的准备工作才能建立起来。为了理解这个问题，我采访了土耳其执政党的高级官员，我问他，“你们是怎么赢得选举的？”他们也大面积使用了数字科技，所以这不是根本原因。那么秘密是什么？他告诉我，他说秘诀就是他喝茶从来不放糖。我说，这有什么关系吗？他说，他的选举团队在他选举获胜的第二天就开始准备下一场选举了，他每天都要去那些支持者家里走访，参加他们的婚礼、割礼仪式，然后他与同事碰面交流会谈笔录。每天他都要与群众会面，每一家都会请他喝茶，他无法拒绝，因为那样很不礼貌，每一杯茶里连一块糖都不能放，因为加起来会有好几公斤糖，他根本数不过来，那时我就明白为什么他说话这么快。我们是在下午会面的，那时他已经摄入了太多咖啡因。但是，在盖奇游行的那一年他的团队轻松地在两场重要选举中获胜。无可否认，政府部门有很多不同的资源可以利用。条件不同，但是其中的差异非常具有启发性。就像所有类似事件，这不是技术获胜。关键在于技术能够辅助我们去做我们想做的事。当今的社会运动总想要以非正式的形式操作。他们不想要任何机构的领导。他们不想跟政治扯上关系，对腐败和招降举措感到恐惧。他们有自己的办法。现代具有代表性的民主在很多国家已经被强大的利益扼杀。但是这种方式让他们很难实现持久战，并且在社会上产生足够的影响，这就会导致沮丧的抗议者退出，政治体系变得更腐败。不面临有效的挑战政治和民主就无法进步，因为激励现代运动的原因非常关键。气候变化的问题日益严峻。不平等问题压制了人类的进步，发展潜力和经济增长。独裁主义让很多国家饱受摧残。我们需要更有效的社会运动。
en:Now, I want to be clear:The magic is not in the mimeograph.It&#39;s in that capacity to work together,think together collectively,which can only be builtover time with a lot of work.To understand all this,I interviewed a top officialfrom the ruling party in Turkey,and I ask him, &quot;How do you do it?&quot;They too use digital technologyextensively, so that&#39;s not it.So what&#39;s the secret?Well, he told me.He said the key ishe never took sugar with his tea.I said, what has thatgot to do with anything?Well, he said, his party startsgetting ready for the next electionthe day after the last one,and he spends all day every daymeeting with voters in their homes,in their wedding parties,circumcision ceremonies,and then he meets with his colleaguesto compare notes.With that many meetings every day,with tea offered at every one of them,which he could not refuse,because that would be rude,he could not take even one cube of sugarper cup of tea,because that would be many kilos of sugar,he can&#39;t even calculate how many kilos,and at that point I realizedwhy he was speaking so fast.We had met in the afternoon,and he was already way over-caffeinated.But his party won two major electionswithin a year of the Gezi protestswith comfortable margins.To be sure, governments havedifferent resources to bring to the table.It&#39;s not the same game,but the differences are instructive.And like all such stories, this is nota story just of technology.It&#39;s what technology allows us to doconverging with what we want to do.Today&#39;s social movementswant to operate informally.They do not want institutional leadership.They want to stay out of politics becausethey fear corruption and cooptation.They have a point.Modern representative democraciesare being strangled in many countriesby powerful interests.But operating this waymakes it hard for themto sustain over the long termand exert leverage over the system,which leads to frustratedprotesters dropping out,and even more corrupt politics.And politics and democracywithout an effective challenge hobbles,because the causes that have inspiredthe modern recent movements are crucial.Climate change is barreling towards us.Inequality is stifling human growthand potential and economies.Authoritarianism is chokingmany countries.We need movements to be more effective.
时间：13:51
zh-cn:现在，一些人认为问题在于当今那些举办运动的人所面临的危险远不如以前，但这并不是事实。在盖奇、这埃及解放广场运动，我见到人们舍家弃业投入到这些运动中去。事实也不像马尔科姆·格拉德威尔说的那样（《纽约客》杂志撰稿人及畅销作家），当今抗议者的凝聚力不足。这是不对的，这些人参加抗议活动，跟朋友一起参与，与从前没什么两样，有的时候甚至还能遇到志同道合的挚交。现在我还是会跟10多年前在萨帕塔全球抗议活动上认识的朋友见面聊天，陌生人之间的联系并非毫无价值。当我在盖奇遭受到催泪瓦斯的攻击，陌生人帮助我和其他人一起撤离，而不是只顾自己逃命。在埃及解放广场运动中，我见到了很多人，抗议者，拼命保护周围人的安全。数字化宣传是个很不错的途径，因为改变思想是改变政治体制的基石。但是当今的运动需要超越大范围快速的参与，还要想办法让大家万众一心，发展强有力的政治意愿，保持高度一致，制定政治决策的发展步骤，并想办法付诸实施，毕竟仅有这些好的意愿、勇气和牺牲精神是远远不够的。
en:Now, some people have arguedthat the problem istoday&#39;s movements are not formed of peoplewho take as many risks as before,and that is not true.From Gezi to Tahrir to elsewhere,I&#39;ve seen people put their livesand livelihoods on the line.It&#39;s also not true,as Malcolm Gladwell claimed,that today&#39;s protestersform weaker virtual ties.No, they come to these protests,just like before,with their friends, existing networks,and sometimes they domake new friends for life.I still see the friends that I madein those Zapatista-convenedglobal protests more than a decade ago,and the bonds between strangersare not worthless.When I got tear-gassed in Gezi,people I didn&#39;t know helped meand one another instead of running away.In Tahrir, I saw people, protesters,working really hard to keepeach other safe and protected.And digital awareness-raising is great,because changing mindsis the bedrock of changing politics.But movements today have to move beyondparticipation at great scale very fastand figure out howto think together collectively,develop strong policy proposals,create consensus,figure out the political stepsand relate them to leverage,because all these good intentionsand bravery and sacrifice by itselfare not going to be enough.
时间：15:14
zh-cn:人们的确进行了很多努力。在新西兰，一群年轻人正在建立一个叫做Loomio的平台，用来进行大规模参与决策的制定。在土耳其，140Journos正在举办“黑客松”这样他们就可以同时支持社区活动和大众新闻报导。在阿根廷，一个叫做DemocracyOS的开源平台让议会和政治党派也能够参与进来。这些都非常好，我们还需要更多这样的组织，不过办法并不只在于更好的网络决策，因为要改进民主制度，我们需要在每个阶段都有所革新，从组织层面到政治层面，再到社会层面。因为要获得长久的胜利，有时候你还是需要喝不放糖的茶，尽管你有推特。谢谢大家。（掌声）
en:And there are many efforts.In New Zealand, a group of young peopleare developing a platform called Loomiofor participatorydecision making at scale.In Turkey, 140Journosare holding hack-a-thonsso that they support communitiesas well as citizen journalism.In Argentina, an open-source platformcalled DemocracyOSis bringing participationto parliaments and political parties.These are all great, and we need more,but the answer won&#39;t just bebetter online decision-making,because to update democracy, we are goingto need to innovate at every level,from the organizationalto the political to the social.Because to succeed over the long term,sometimes you do need tea without sugaralong with your Twitter.Thank you.(Applause)
