时间： 0:12
zh-cn:在许多族长制社会和部落制社会中，父亲通常是因为他的儿子而出名，但我属于少数的父亲，我因自己的女儿而出名的，我对此感到特别骄傲。
en:In many patriarchal societies and tribal societies,fathers are usually known by their sons,but I&#39;m one of the few fatherswho is known by his daughter,and I am proud of it.
时间： 0:28
zh-cn:（掌声）
en:(Applause)
时间： 0:34
zh-cn:马拉拉在2007年开始为自己的教育权利而战，在2011年，她因为自己的努力而被授予国家青年和平奖，从那时起，她变成了巴基斯坦非常有名的年轻女孩。在这之前，她是我的女儿，但现在我是她的父亲。女士们先生们，如果我们回顾一下人类历史，会发现女性的历史其实是关于不公正，不平等，暴力和被剥削的故事。你会发现，在重男轻女的社会里，从一开始，也就是从女孩出生那一刻开始，她的出生是不被庆祝的。她不受欢迎，无论是父亲还是母亲，邻居会过来对母亲表示同情，没有人会去恭喜父亲。母亲也会因为拥有了一名女儿而感到不适。当她产下第一名女婴时，她是难过的。当她产下第二名女婴时，她是震惊的，由于一心想要儿子，当她产下第三名女婴的时候，她感觉羞愧极了，像罪犯一样。
en:Malala started her campaign for educationand stood for her rights in 2007,and when her efforts were honored in 2011,and she was given the national youth peace prize,and she became a very famous,very popular young girl of her country.Before that, she was my daughter,but now I am her father.Ladies and gentlemen,if we glance to human history,the story of womenis the story of injustice,inequality,violence and exploitation.You see,in patriarchal societies,right from the very beginning,when a girl is born,her birth is not celebrated.She is not welcomed,neither by father nor by mother.The neighborhood comesand commiserates with the mother,and nobody congratulates the father.And a mother is very uncomfortablefor having a girl child.When she gives birth to the first girl child,first daughter, she is sad.When she gives birth to the second daughter,she is shocked,and in the expectation of a son,when she gives birth to a third daughter,she feels guilty like a criminal.
时间： 2:23
zh-cn:受苦的不仅仅只有母亲，也有女儿，刚刚来到世界的女婴，当她长大，她也会受许多苦。五岁，本来是应该去上学的年龄，她只能呆在家眼睁睁地望着自己的哥哥或者弟弟去上学，在十二岁的时候，她似乎拥有了快乐的生活。她可以出去玩。她可以在街道上和朋友一起游戏，她也可以像蝴蝶一样，在街道间穿梭。但当她进入了青少年时期，当她十三岁的时候，她禁止在没有男性的陪同下离开家。她被家里的四面墙困住了。她也不再是自由的个体了。她成为了所谓的父亲，兄弟和家庭的“荣耀”，如果她违反了那所谓荣耀的准则，她有可能会被处死。
en:Not only the mother suffers,but the daughter, the newly born daughter,when she grows old,she suffers too.At the age of five,while she should be going to school,she stays at homeand her brothers are admitted in a school.Until the age of 12, somehow,she has a good life.She can have fun.She can play with her friends in the streets,and she can move around in the streetslike a butterfly.But when she enters her teens,when she becomes 13 years old,she is forbidden to go out of her homewithout a male escort.She is confined under the four walls of her home.She is no more a free individual.She becomes the so-called honorof her father and of her brothersand of her family,and if she transgressesthe code of that so-called honor,she could even be killed.
时间： 3:43
zh-cn:但是让人惊讶的是，这个所谓的荣耀准则，不仅仅影响女孩的生活，也与家庭里的男性成员息息相关。我知道有一户家庭里有七个女儿，一个儿子，那个唯一的儿子已经移民到中东海湾地区，去挣钱养活七个姐妹和他的父母。因为他认为，如果他的七个姐妹学会了一些技能，可以离开家挣点钱，这将是对他的羞辱。所以这位儿子，牺牲了自己的生活的快乐，也摧毁了他姐妹的幸福生活，只为了维护所谓的荣耀。
en:And it is also interesting that this so-calledcode of honor,it does not only affect the life of a girl,it also affects the lifeof the male members of the family.I know a family of seven sisters and one brother,and that one brother,he has migrated to the Gulf countries,to earn a living for his seven sistersand parents,because he thinks that it will be humiliatingif his seven sisters learn a skilland they go out of the homeand earn some livelihood.So this brother,he sacrifices the joys of his lifeand the happiness of his sistersat the altar of so-called honor.
时间： 4:44
zh-cn:在重男轻女的社会里，还有一项常态，那就是服从。一个好的女孩应该是非常安静，非常谦虚，并且非常顺从。这是准则。好女孩的榜样必须是非常安静的。她必须处于沉默的状态，无条件接受一切来自父母的，长者的决定，即使她不喜欢那些决定。如果她要嫁给一个自己不喜欢的男人，或者她要嫁给一个比自己年龄大很多的男人，她必须无条件接受，因为她不想被带上&quot;违抗命令&quot;的名声。如果她过早地结婚，她也必须服从。要不然，她就会被众人称作“违抗命令”。这样的结局会是什么？用诗人的话说，结婚并同床，然后她生下更多的儿子和女儿，这种情况的讽刺之处在于，这名母亲又将服从的概念灌输给自己的女儿将荣耀的概念灌输给自己的儿子。这种恶性循环一直持续。
en:And there is one more normof the patriarchal societiesthat is called obedience.A good girl is supposed to bevery quiet, very humbleand very submissive.It is the criteria.The role model good girl should be very quiet.She is supposed to be silentand she is supposed to accept the decisionsof her father and motherand the decisions of elders,even if she does not like them.If she is married to a man she doesn&#39;t likeor if she is married to an old man,she has to accept,because she does not want to be dubbedas disobedient.If she is married very early,she has to accept.Otherwise, she will be called disobedient.And what happens at the end?In the words of a poetess,she is wedded, bedded,and then she gives birthto more sons and daughters.And it is the irony of the situationthat this mother,she teaches the same lesson of obedienceto her daughterand the same lesson of honor to her sons.And this vicious cycle goes on, goes on.
时间： 6:16
zh-cn:女士们先生们，我认为，数以百万计女性的苦境，是可以被改变的，如果我们从不同的角度思考，如果女性和男性换位思考，如果在发展中国家，那些生于重男轻女和部落制社会中的男性和女性愿意打破家庭和社会中的一些陈规如果他们能废除在国家体系中存在的带有歧视性的法律，这些法律违反女性最基本的人权。
en:Ladies and gentlemen,this plight of millions of womencould be changedif we think differently,if women and men think differently,if men and women in thetribal and patriarchal societiesin the developing countries,if they can break a few normsof family and society,if they can abolish the discriminatory lawsof the systems in their states,which go against the basic human rightsof the women.
时间： 6:59
zh-cn:亲爱的兄弟姐妹们，当马拉拉出生时，在那一次，相信我，坦白说，我不喜欢新生儿但当我看到她的眼睛时，相信我，我觉得分外荣幸。在她出生很久之前，我就开始想给她取什么名字，我当时对在阿富汗战争中一位为自由而战的传奇女性着迷，她的名字是迈旺得的马拉拉，所以我给自己的女儿也取名马拉拉。在马拉拉生日后的几天，我的女儿出生了，我的堂兄过来了-这完全是意料之外的-他来我家，并带来了族谱，那是属于优素福家族的族谱，当我看着那份族谱的时候，它介绍了三百年前我们的祖先，但当我细看的时候，名单里全是男性，随后我拿起了笔，在我名字的下方划了一条线，然后写上,&quot;马拉拉”。
en:Dear brothers and sisters, when Malala was born,and for the first time,believe me,I don&#39;t like newborn children, to be honest,but when I went and I looked into her eyes,believe me,I got extremely honored.And long before she was born,I thought about her name,and I was fascinated with a heroiclegendary freedom fighter in Afghanistan.Her name was Malalai of Maiwand,and I named my daughter after her.A few days after Malala was born,my daughter was born,my cousin came —and it was a coincidence —he came to my homeand he brought a family tree,a family tree of the Yousafzai family,and when I looked at the family tree,it traced back to 300 years of our ancestors.But when I looked, all were men,and I picked my pen,drew a line from my name,and wrote, &quot;Malala.&quot;
时间： 8:24
zh-cn:她渐渐长大，当她四岁半的时候，我送她去我的学校，你或许会问，为什么我要提到送女儿去学校？我必须说说这件事。在加拿大，美国等发展中国家，这可能是理所当然的，但是在贫穷的国家，在重男轻女或部落制的社会中，这对女孩来说无比重要。将她送进学校意味着对她个体和名字的认可，进入学校意味着她进入了充满梦想和抱负的世界她可以为自己的未来探索个人的潜能。我有五个姐妹，她们之中没有一个人上过学校，接下来的故事也许会让你震惊，两周前，当我在填加拿大签证表格的时候，我发现自己需要填写家庭成员，我那时居然想不起我一些姐妹的姓氏。原因就是，我从来没有见过自己的姐妹在任何文件中写过自己的名字。这就是为什么我珍重女儿的原因。我父亲不能给予自己女儿的东西，我想我一定要改变这个现象。
en:And when she grow old,when she was four and a half years old,I admitted her in my school.You will be asking, then, why should I mention aboutthe admission of a girl in a school?Yes, I must mention it.It may be taken for granted in Canada,in America, in many developed countries,but in poor countries,in patriarchal societies, in tribal societies,it&#39;s a big event for the life of girl.Enrollment in a school meansrecognition of her identity and her name.Admission in a school meansthat she has entered the world of dreamsand aspirationswhere she can explore her potentialsfor her future life.I have five sisters,and none of them could go to school,and you will be astonished,two weeks before,when I was filling out the Canadian visa form,and I was filling out the family part of the form,I could not recallthe surnames of some of my sisters.And the reason wasthat I have never, never seen the namesof my sisters written on any document.That was the reason thatI valued my daughter.What my father could not give to my sistersand to his daughters,I thought I must change it.
时间：10:15
zh-cn:我经常表扬我女儿，赞扬她聪明，机智，当有朋友来的时候，我鼓励她和我坐在一起。我鼓励她和我一起参加不同的会议。所有这些好的价值我都试图灌输到她的性格中。但不仅仅是她，不仅仅是马拉拉，我把这些好的价值带去学校，带给男同学也带给女同学。我通过教育带来解放，我教育自己的女儿我教育自己的女学生，要学会对“服从”说不我教育我的男学生，要忘记所谓的“荣耀”。
en:I used to appreciate the intelligenceand the brilliance of my daughter.I encouraged her to sit with mewhen my friends used to come.I encouraged her to go withme to different meetings.And all these good values,I tried to inculcate in her personality.And this was not only she, only Malala.I imparted all these good valuesto my school, girl students and boy students as well.I used education for emancipation.I taught my girls,I taught my girl students,to unlearn the lesson of obedience.I taught my boy studentsto unlearn the lesson of so-called pseudo-honor.
时间：11:12
zh-cn:亲爱的兄弟姐妹们，我们为女性争取更多的权利，我们也在努力在社会中为女性争取更多的空间和地位，但是我们也遇到了新的现象。这个现象给人权带来巨大的打击，尤其是对女性的权利。这个现象叫做塔利班化。这种现象剥夺了女性的参与权，无论是在政治活动，经济活动，还是社会活动之中。上百所学校被关闭。女孩被禁止上学。妇女被迫带上面纱，而且她们被禁止去集市。音乐家被静止弹奏音乐，女孩被鞭打，歌手被刺杀。百万人受苦，但只有极少数人敢站出来说，最恐怖的事情是，你的周围充满了经常进行杀戮和鞭打的人，但你仍要为自己的权利发出呐喊。这真的是最恐怖的事情。
en:Dear brothers and sisters,we were striving for more rights for women,and we were struggling to have more,more and more space for the women in society.But we came across a new phenomenon.It was lethal to human rightsand particularly to women&#39;s rights.It was called Talibanization.It means a complete negationof women&#39;s participationin all political, economical and social activities.Hundreds of schools were lost.Girls were prohibited from going to school.Women were forced to wear veilsand they were stopped from going to the markets.Musicians were silenced,girls were floggedand singers were killed.Millions were suffering,but few spoke,and it was the most scary thingwhen you have all around such peoplewho kill and who flog,and you speak for your rights.It&#39;s really the most scary thing.
时间：12:41
zh-cn:在她十岁的时候，马拉拉站起身，为自己的教育权利呐喊。她把自己的一篇日记作为BBC的博客，她自愿参加《纽约时代》一些纪录片的制作，她尽力登上每一个展台去发出自己的声音。她的声音是世界上最强有力的声音。她的声音逐渐传播到世界的每一个角落。这就是为什么塔利班不能容忍她的宣传活动，在2012年10月9日，她头部被近距离射击。
en:At the age of 10,Malala stood, and she stood for the rightof education.She wrote a diary for the BBC blog,she volunteered herselffor the New York Times documentaries,and she spoke from every platform she could.And her voice was the most powerful voice.It spread like a crescendo all around the world.And that was the reason the Talibancould not tolerate her campaign,and on October 9 2012,she was shot in the head at point blank range.
时间：13:30
zh-cn:那天对我们全家人尤其对我自己来说，简直是世界末日。整个世界变成了一个大黑洞。我的女儿处于生命垂危状态，我低声对妻子说，“对于发生在我们女儿身上的事情，我是不是有责任？”
en:It was a doomsday for my family and for me.The world turned into a big black hole.While my daughter wason the verge of life and death,I whispered into the ears of my wife,&quot;Should I be blamed for what happenedto my daughter and your daughter?&quot;
时间：13:56
zh-cn:她立刻打断我：”请别责备自己。你之前所做的没有错。你将自己的生命至于危险的环境，是为了真理，为了和平，也为了教育，你的女儿受到了启发，并愿意和你并肩作战。你们两个人都在正确的道路上，真主会保佑她。”
en:And she abruptly told me,&quot;Please don&#39;t blame yourself.You stood for the right cause.You put your life at stakefor the cause of truth,for the cause of peace,and for the cause of education,and your daughter in inspired from youand she joined you.You both were on the right pathand God will protect her.&quot;
时间：14:20
zh-cn:这一番话对我意义非常大，此后我也没有再问过这样的问题。
en:These few words meant a lot to me,and I didn&#39;t ask this question again.
时间：14:27
zh-cn:当马拉拉在医院的时候，她忍受着巨大的痛苦，她头痛极为严重，因为她的面部神经被切断了，我妻子的脸成天被阴云笼罩着。但我的女儿从来没有抱怨。她会告诉我们，“微笑奇怪，面部僵硬，这些都没有关系。我会好起来的，别担心。”她是我们的安慰，给我们带来慰藉。
en:When Malala was in the hospital,and she was going through the severe painsand she had had severe headachesbecause her facial nerve was cut down,I used to see a dark shadowspreading on the face of my wife.But my daughter never complained.She used to tell us,&quot;I&#39;m fine with my crooked smileand with my numbness in my face.I&#39;ll be okay. Please don&#39;t worry.&quot;She was a solace for us,and she consoled us.
时间：15:11
zh-cn:亲爱的兄弟姐妹们，从她身上，我学到了在困境中如何变得坚强，我也很乐意和你们分享，尽管她如今是儿童权利和妇女权利领域的重要人物，她和其他16岁的女孩没有什么不同。当作业没有写完时，她会哭。她也会和兄弟争吵，我觉得这些其实都很正常。
en:Dear brothers and sisters,we learned from her how to be resilientin the most difficult times,and I&#39;m glad to share with youthat despite being an iconfor the rights of children and women,she is like any 16-year old girl.She cries when her homework is incomplete.She quarrels with her brothers,and I am very happy for that.
时间：15:49
zh-cn:人们问我，为什么我的启蒙能让马拉拉如此大胆，如此勇敢，有感召力并且镇定自若？我告诉他们，不要问我做了什么。问我没有做什么。我所做的，只是没折断她的翅膀。
en:People ask me,what special is in my mentorshipwhich has made Malala so boldand so courageous and so vocal and poised?I tell them, don&#39;t ask me what I did.Ask me what I did not do.I did not clip her wings, and that&#39;s all.
时间：16:17
zh-cn:谢谢。
en:Thank you very much.
时间：16:20
zh-cn:（掌声）非常感谢。（掌声）
en:(Applause)Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause)
